, , , New crosswordpuzzle -p. 10 

VOL. XIII, NO. 92 ·. an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TIJESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1979 

80 percent ofthe sun was hzdden at ND yesterday du1ing the eclipse. Students devised vanous ways to view this phenomena without damaging their eyes. (Photos by Phil johnson of the Scholastic and Mark Ricca of the Observer.] 
Vietnamese-Chinese conflict 
. 

Teng says war may end within ten days 
BANGKOK, Thazland [AP]-·Viet­namese troops defendmg the Red River valley corridor to Hanoi held tht>ir ground Jesterday against a three-J?ronge Chinese armored and tnfantry attack, Hanoi radio said. 
It claimed Peking's soldiers were being killed at a rate of BOO a day all along the border front lines. 
China's Vice Premier Teng Asiao-ping said yesterday the 10-day-old conflict might e~d ~ithin 10 days, but analysts m Rangkok and elsewhere expect the Chinese invasion force to first mount an all-out assault against Hanoi's troops. 
The official Soviet n~ws media charged that China was massing troops near its border with Laos for an invasion of that Vietna­mese-dorrunated country. The report could not be confirmed. 
In a spe<"ch in the western Russian city of Minsk, Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko reiterated the Kremlin warning to China to pull out of Soviet-allied Vietnam "before it is too late." he said the invasion was "doomed to failure." 
A Soviet airlift of military supplies to Hanoi appeared to be continuing. Airport sources in Calcutta, India, said three cargo planes--one Rulgarian and two Soviet--refueled there Sunday and yesterday on their way to the Viernamese capital. 
A Voice of Vietnam radio broadcast monitored here claimed Hanoi's troops had killed more than 2, 300 Chinese in fighting since Friday at scattered battlefields along the front. 
The broadcast said tank-led Chinese infantrymen attacked Vietnamese forces from three directions in the Cam Duong area, south of the provincial capital Lao Cai and about 150 miles northwest of Hanoi. 
Cam Duong and Lao Cai, which was reponed captured by the Chinese last week, lie in the Red River valley, a strategic water, rail and highway corridor leading to Hanoi. Chinese officials have been quoted as saying, howev~r, they have no plans to try to seize the Vietnamese capital. 
The Hanoi broadcast claimed . counter-attacking Vietnamese troops killed 1,400 Chinese around Am Duong, but that fighting was continuing in the area yesterday. 
China, whose troops are re­ported to have penetrated as far as 20 miles instde Vietnam, has issued few reports about the progress of the war. But)a pan's Kyodo news service said Peking radio reported that a Chinese battalion .overran five Vietna­mese hillton positions near Dong Dang, north of the town of Lang Son. 
Hanoi claims its troops have killed more than 16,000 Chinese thus far. Intelligence sources her consider the figure inflated. The Vietnamese have not reported wants to "punish" Vietnam by their own casualties' ana the destroying at least one Vietna­Chinese have published no mese army division and military casualty figures. bases and artillery emplacements 

Kyodo news service quoted near the border. Chinese sources as saying Peking [continued on page 3] 
Reid bans sale ofPlayboy 
inFlanner 
byJohn McGrath Senior StaffReporter , 
University officials have made it clear to the management of Flanner Food Sales that they want magazine slaes at that operation to cease. In a recent Observer series on campus food sales operations, it was revealed that Planner was selling Playboy and Penthouse magazines in addition to food items. 
John Reid, director of Student Activities, disclosed yesterday that he had sent a letter to hall rectors last week informing them that the sale of all items not approved by his office at campus food sales operations must cease. 
Tony Roberts, manager of Planner Food Sales, reported that he had received a copy of the letter last Monday, tellmg him to "cease and desist" from selling any magazines. Roberts said he had complied with the order. 
"We haven't banned any­thing,'' Reid stressed. ''We've just told them that they have to go through the regular proces~." 
Reid indicated that if magazme sales are to be re-instated at Planner or at any other hall, the outlet's management would have to submit an application f!fSt to the Student Uruon Services Com­mission and then to his office.· 
"We usually get 50 or 60 requests (to sell unar,provc;d items) each semester, Re1d said. 
"Food sales are traditionally just that--sales of food and non­alcholic beverages," Reid com­mented. 
' 'But is a hall food sales a food 
[continued on page 9) 



Eclipse turns day into night 
Skywatchers by the thousands shared the awe of watching the sun suddenly go black yesterday in one· of nature's spectacles that won't be repeated in North America until the 21st century. 
Animals milled nervously and confused roosters crowed twice as day turned into night in a swath 175 miles wide across the northwestern United States and into Canada. 
Street lights controlled by sensors flicked on in Spokane and Olympia, Wash., and elsewhere as the moon swept between Earth and the bright orange disk of the sun in the last total eclipse to be visible on this continent until the year 2017. 
. A house cat in Williston, N.D., grew fitful, then got''all hunched up and wouldn't go anywhere until the sun came out," his mistress said. 
Eclipse watchers and solar groupies at Williston gathered in snowsuits and parkas in 15 degree temperatures, which fell6 degrees more when the sun blinked. 
'' Horray for the moon!'' was the champagne toast among 24 eclipse-chasers high above the Columbia River gorge aboard a Boeing 727 jetliner chartered by the Pacific Science Center in Seattly. 
The moon's shadow made landfall shortly after 8 
a.m. PST at Agate Beach, Ore., in its eastward march across the sky, arcing as far east as North Dakota before swinging north into Canada. 
At Olympia, the Washington state capitol, the Clouds broke 10 minutes before total eclipse. 
The curious broke out homemade pinhole projectors and madeshift viewers as scienusts set up more sophisticated tde::.copes or conducted experiments m chartered aircraft above the clouds. 
But a mattress of clouds several thousand feet 
thick covered most of the Pacific coast and many 
had to settle for a televised versions. 
At Goldendale, Wash., near the Columbia River, more than 1,000 persons had gathered, some from as far away as New England and California . 
A cloud bank moved in at the crucial moment of totality, but a muffled cry of awe and joy rippled over the hillside at the small public observatory as the last tiny silver of sun fell behind the passing moon. 
One of those travelins more than 1,000 miles t6 the snowcovered prairte of northwestern North Dakota was Jim Manning, assistant director of the Norehead Planetarium at Chapel Hill, N.C. He carne with a party of eight which drove three days in a van and compact car to get there. 
''You feel the awesome power of the laws of nature, how they affect things, and all you can do .is sit there and watch," Manning said. "It's a gut feeling of helplessness and you say, 'My God, look what's going on.' It's a mystical expenence.'' 
The shadow crossed the earth at speeds over 3,000 miles an hoar, beginning on the West Coast near Portland, Ore., and dissolving over Greenland. 
Tuesday, February 27, 1979 -page 2
N~~ws in brief 
Pope John Paul IIreaffirms 
CourtofAppeals orders trial in 
anti-abortion stance 


Indiana sterilization damage suit 
INDIANAPOliS [AP] -The The appellate court overturned Act, both of which provide paym­VATICAN CIIY JAPJ-Pope John Paul II reaffirmed on Indiana Court of Appeals has the LaPorte Circuit Court, which ments to disabled policemen inyesterday his stan against abortion. Speaking to members of ordered a trial in a damage suit had dismissed the suit brought Michigan City. 
Movements for Life, an international lay organization strongly brough against a surgeon by a by policeman ] ames Elwell nad But the appeals court said that opposed to abortion, the Pope said the Second Vatican New Albany woman who was his wife. Judv. nothing in either of those acts, asEcumcnicu Council of 1960s, which modernized many aspects sterilized. they apply to police officers,of the church, did not hesitate to condemn "everything that is The Elwells alleged in the suit prevented Elwell from seekingagainst life itself." The Pope paraphrased remarks of the that the city was negligent in
The ruling Monday in favor of 
damages for ne~li~ence.
Ecumcnicu Council's partoral constitutio;D dealing with abort­maintaining a sewer diain cover,
Linda Petro overturned a Floyd 
The sole limttat10n, the courtion, genocide, euthanasia and suicide. "You fight," the Pope which allegedly caused the ac­
Circuit Court decision dismissing 
said, is that the city is only liable siad, ''that everyman be recognized the right to be born, to grow cident where the policeman was
the suit against Dr. James Y. 
for medical benefits to the extentup and to !lamlOniously develop ~ own ~pacities. A. Europe.an 
injured.
McCoullough of New Albany. 
they are provided through work­meeting of the Movements for Life ended m Milan Sunday wtth The, lower court's action came The city claimed that Elwell's men's compensation.
a resolution calling abortion "legalized assassination. " because Mrs. Petro, diagnosed exclusive remedy lay with the The appeals court returned the 
as mildly retarded, signed a state workmen's compensation case to the lower• court for a trila consent form for the tubal liga­law and the Police Pension Fund on the merits of Elwell's claim. 
tion.

Cos1nonautsprepare to dock 
Mrs. Petro, 27, claimed in her suit that she was incompetent to 
InPeoples Templecase
witl• space station · 
consent to the operation and that McCullough was aware of her MOSCOW' [AP] -Two Soviet cosmonauts circled the Earth 
mental problems. yesterday making preparations to dock with the Salyut 6 space 
Judge puts offburial decision
The appeals court, in a deci­
station. 1ass, the Soviet news agency, reported that the flight 
sion written by Judge Jonathan I. 
by Vladimir Lyakhov and Valery Ryumin aboard the Soyuz 32 
Robertson, said Mrs. Petro's 
SAN FRANCISCO [AP] -A A Delaware trucking frrm hasspaceship was proceeding normally in its second day. There 
competency was a question that 
judge put off on Monday deciding offered to ship the bodies at awas no u.dicanon when they would link up with the space 
should be decided by the trial 
whether to use Peoples Temple cost of about $97 a body, com­station, which has been in orbtt for 16 months and has been host court. 
assets to truck to California for pared to a cost as high as $1,400to a number of space crews. 
"We believe (Mrs.) Petro burial 565 bodies still lying in an ( for shipping by air. 
should be given the opportunity East Coast hangar three months Brown did not say when he 
to present the issue ofher mental after the cult's mass murder­planned to issue his decision. He 
capacity to execute the consent," suicide. gave attorneys two days to sub­
Legislator wants to return 
the appeals court wrote. Embalmed in steel military mit additional information or coffins, the bodies include 255 proposals to him. '
The-suit was idsmissed in that have not been :dentified and A committee of clergy ap­

Commandments to school 
circuit court before her case was 
310 who were identified but pointed by Brown drew up the
pr~sented. 

whose relatives would not or trucking flan, which has the NASHUA, N.H. [APJ-A. state senator has introduced a bill to 
Prior to the May 1970 opera. could not afford to ship them support o the State and Justice have the Ten Commandments ~ted in school rooms "to 
tion, Mrs. Petro had been a back home. departments and an attorney provide a moral code for youth.' Sen. Alan Rock, R-Nashua, 
patient several times at the More than 900 people died named to handle the fmances of se.id his reilSons for introducing the bill last week are based in 
Madison State Hospital. The Nov. 18 after Temple leader Jim the defunct Temple, which was part on vis its to the state J.>rison and his understanding that the 
appeals court said she was diag­Jones ordered his followers to based in San Francisco. average age of inmates ts decreasing. Rock. said voluntary 
nosed as "mildly unstable and drink poison at the cult's settle­The plan recommended that contributions would be used to pay for Ten Commandment 
mildly retarded.'' ment mJonestown, Guyana. $302,800 in Temple assets be cards, .which would contain a statement saying they were being 
Superior Court Judge Ira spent to truck the bodies from
Mrs. Petro ,said that fact, and
posted for moral, not religious, reasons. 
BrownJr. said he considered the Dover Air Force Base in Dela­
the fact that she had not been 
truck plan "very unwise," but ware to California.
formally discharged from the 
added, "Unfortunately, the reali­
mental hospital at the time the 
ties of 5he situation are such that 
operation was performed, made 
we cannot bring each one back on 

Schussler
her incompetent. 

United Airlines jets. 

Weather 

McCullopugh, who performed 
''Not only is it fmancially 


speaks at
the sterilization at Floyd County 
unfeasible, but it would take two 
Mostly sunny and cool today fair and not so cold tonight. 
Hospital, said the fact that she years to accomplish and I have no • Highs in the mid to upper 30s. Lows around 20. Be­
had been-in amental hospital was 

semtnar
mtention of allowing that o~ 
coming cloudy and coot tomorrow with a chance of light rain not proof of incompetence to wound to be there that long,' he Dr. Elisabeth Schusslerdevelopin1r by late in the day. Highs near 40. 
understand what she was 
said during a hearing on how to Fiorenza, associate professor of signing. 
dispose of the bodies. theology at Notre Dame, will be Thecase now returns to circuit main speaker at a senUnar on court for further hearing. theology of women in the New 
• 
Testament, to be held at the
In another decision, the 
University of Calgary in Canada
appeals court said a Michigan 
this weekend.
City policeman has the right to 
... Assembly 

The meeting is sponsored by
sue the cio/. for injuries he 
s 
the Calgary Conferc;nce on
sustained while driving his patrol 
[continued from page 3] Women and Religion. Fiorenza 
car. will deliver two lectures on
the various clubs and orgaruza­theology of woman in the Newtions that received SG funds be 
Testament and another on
required to submit a financial4:20 pm--COLLOQUIM, "analytic continuation in quantum 
The Observer 
woman's future as Christian. 
statement at the end of the yearmechanics & unstable particles," prof. e.c.g. sudarshan, u. of She also will lead a forum on the 
texas, 118 NIEUWLAND 
Night Editor: Sue Wuetcher 
indicating how funds were spent women's ordination movement in and how much should be allo-
Edi 

North America. 
A.sst. Night "tor: Mary 
cated the following year. She4:30 pm--SEMINA.R, "an ecological & morphological analysis of 
Pat FJ/is

coeXIsting species of trichoptera,'' alice Ioesch, bowling green 
Co Edi j h M&Gr. h 
pointed out that many clu~s. ~ 
l'Y tor: 0 n -at. 
planned numerous acuvmes
St. u.' 278 GALVIN 

~~~rial Layout: Rosemary 
when originally requesting funds 
Buy Classifieds 
.6:30 pro--WORKSHOP, neighborhood study help program, dr. 
Sports Layout: Beth 
this year, but not all these plans don balka, SMC CLUBHOUSE 
have been carried out. 
Huffman 
No decisions were made at the 
from

Typists: Mardi Nevin, Tom 
•6:30 pm--li1EETING, english majors, MEM. UB. A.UD. 
n · Be h Witlla d. R · 
meeting however. The next 
rzpp, t. " ' oste 
meeting will be March 12, at 7 
Rodgers 
d 

The ·Observer
EMf: Kate p.m. in the stu ent government7 pm--BMKE1BA.LL, indiana high school sectionals 

Day Editor: john Ferroli 
office. 
7:30 t>m·-DISCUSSION, "cultural differences between the u.s. 
Ad Layout: David E. Wood
and germany," prof. friedrich thiel, iusb, O'SHA.G FACULTY 
Photographer: Mark Ricca 
LOUNGE 

: 7:30 pm--LECTIJRE/DISCUSSION, t'sexuality: yours, mine and 
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 is 
published Monday through Friday ex­
cept during exam and vacation periods.
ours,'' dr. richard hey, u. ofminn. & juanita leonard, marriage 
and family counselor, ARCH. AUD. 
The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint 
7:30pm--DRAMA, "walk together children," by actress vinie 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 
purchased for $20 per year ($10 per 
semester! from The Observer. P.O. box
burrows, spon. by black cultural arts festival, UTILE 
TIIE.A1RE 
,. 

a, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In· 
7:30pm--LECTURE/DISCUSSION, "education in the college of 
diana 46556. 

i'npq1111Utn 11likmrttllftstiual
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
arts and le::ters," dr. isabel charles, arts and letters dean, etal. 
ENGR. AlD. 

stm. 4-sat. lD
righb are reserved.
·­





Schedule ofevents 
Friday, March 2 Hl0-7:00 p.m.--Registration-LeMans Lobby 8:30-10:00 p.m.--"An Evening of ENtenainment" -Angela 
Athletic Facilty 10:00-11:00 p.m.--Champagne Reception-Stapleton Lounge 
Saturday, March 3 
10:00 a.m.-12:30 p.m.--Registration 
1:00-1:30 p.m.--Presidential Welcome 
1:30-3:00 p.m. Academic Open House 
3:00-4:00 p.m.--Open House Reception 
6:30 p.m.-2:00 a.m.--Dinner/Dance-Century Center Sunday, March 4 8:45-9:45 a.m.--Mass-Church of Our Lady of Lorretto 9:45-11:00 a.m.--Brunch 
Price plans to· modify housing registration rules 
by Maureen Heraty 
Edmund Price, director of Uni­versity Housing, admitted yes­terday that he planned to modify the housing registration regula­tions for next year due to a complaint registered on the student's behalf by Freshman Advisory Council President Mike Shepardson. 
Shepardson met with Price Tuesday to discuss the present housing registration regulations. Several freshmen had turned to Shepard when Price had refused to allow them to change dorms next year. Apparently, they had handed in their housing transfer request forms after the Feb. 2 deadline. They had, however, returned their housing contracts to the housing office in time. "No one told them that the request forms were due at the same time as the housing con­tracts,'' Shepardson said. 
The students expressed hope that Shepardson might be able to handle the situation through the Freshman Advisory Council. Shepardson commented, "I real­ized that we had a problem because we were dealing with the administration.'' 
Price told Shepardson that the students could turn in their housing contracts and housing transfer request forms anytime before Feb. 2, but he said that the administration maintains a "standard policy" which does not allow the housing office to accept any contracts or request forms after the deadline. 
"I told him (Price) that the students had not been informed of the policy regarding the re­quest forms. He replied that the office had notified the rectors,'' 

Hayes, Walker present lecture 
"Careers in Retailing" will be the topic of a presentation to be made at 4: 15 p.m. today in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Ron Hayes, vtce president of Personnel and Dan Walker, divisional manager ofPersonnel­lndiana, both of F&R Lazarus and Company will be the guest spealcers. A question and answer period will follow. AU students regardless of class or major are invited and encoucagid to attend. 
Shepardson related. "When I asked him why more effort was not put into informing the stu­dents, he said he didn't know. He said that he had not seen the need to publicize the policy. '' 
Shepardson discussed the situ­ation with Student Body Presi­dent Andy McKenna and on his advice, presented the problem to the Hall Presidents' Council. The HPC offered to support Shepardson if the Administration gave him any resistance. 
"I'm not trying to induce any radical change, I only wnat what is fair," explained Shepardson. ''I think the students deserve more information on housin~ 
registration regulations, espect­
ally the freshmen who are regis­
terin~ tor the ftrst time.' '  
Prtce  ha.s  reconsidered  the  
registration  problem  since  his  
meeting with Shepardson.  He  

said that he would review those housing transfer requests that he had previously rejected. ''The students were unaware of the administration's policy towards housing registration and can not be blamed for failure to hand in the forms on time," he affirmed. 
Price also stated that he intends to ''set deadlin~s which will g-ive the students ume to constder their contracts and make any changes necessary before the deadline.'' Many students con­sidered this year's deadline far too early. 

OBSERVER
SMC Assembly meets;' discusses RA roles 
NOW OPEN 
by Margie Brassil Staff Reporter 

Nine members of the Saint Mary's Student Assembly were present for a meeting last night in the student government office in North Regina Hall. Possible revisions in the Student Govern­ment Manual and Big Sister/ Little Sister Weekend were topics of discussion. 
The question of revisions cen­tered around the roles of resident advisors (RAs) and section repre­sentatives in student govern­ment. The functions of each seem to vary from dorm to dorm, with some dorms using RAs as the main means of communi­cating with the students, while other dorms are using the section 
SMC finalizes SophParent weekend plans 
by Margie BrassiJ Staff Reporter 

The agenda for this week's Saint Mary's Sophomore Parent Weekend has been fmalized. According to sophomore Class President Adri Trigianni, "We've ,Planned a spectacular, invigoraung, and extremely crea­tive weekend. We've received great help from the administra­tion and an excellent response from the students." 
Co-chairing _the weekend with Trigiani are Mary Ellen Maccio, Peggy Blum, Catherine Shaugh­nessy and Donna Bellock. 
One of the main events on Friday is "An Evening of Enter­tainment,'' a variety show with over 50 students in the cast. It centers around the fictional life of ftve Saint Mary's sophomores. It will be held in Angela Athletic Facility. A stage is being built,. and a lighting and sound system are being developed with the help of Dan Diencheon and Mary Gerber. 
The other acttvltles are a Sophomore an show in O'Laugh­lin Auditorium, an exhibit in Madeleva on Saint Mary's Sophmores, and an academic open house. Special events on Saturday include a showing of "SMC-Place to Be," showing every half hour in Carroll Hall under the direction of Bro. Larry Stewart and the dinner-dance at the Century Center. 
... War 

[continued/rom page i] 
In an interview yesterday Chinese vice premier Teng said he ''wholeheartedly welcomed'' United Nations Security Council proposals of Chinese t.rv.ops,from ~ Vietnam and of VIetnamese troops from Cambodia, Kyodo reponed. · 
Teng added, "We would not make that a bargaining con­clition, • • apparently meaning China might withdraw its forces from Vietnam even if Vietnam does not pull out of Cambodia.. 
In Indochina's. other, war, in . Cambodia, guerrillas loyal to the top,Pled government of Pol Pot 
clatmed to have killed at least 264 Vietnamese soldiers in fighting 
Positions on the' 1979-80
last week. 
·.... 
reps for this purpose. 1 • . · 
A suggestion was made that contact Rosemary at 7471 
both groups should begm to work more closely and. that · a clearer 
and submit astatement on the position
definition of the role of ~e section reps be out~ed in the I. 
manual. CWTently, any member that you are interested in 
of a section can become a sec~on rep but there is. no;' clearly stated function in relation to the RAs .. · 
deadline for applications 3:00pm Fri ..,March 2
Problems'· concerning >Big Sister/Little Sister.Weelcend this year were aJso discuss~. Som~ of those present comphuned that , the weekend will be too close to 
·spring. break; The weekend is plarined for March 30 thro~g~ April 1, the . ~k foll<'wtng 
, break. Sheila WIXted; Student Gov­ernment treas'urer proposed t;hat • 
[conli11ueri on pag~2) 






The Observer Tuesday, February 27, 1979 -page 4 
be too encouraged by the two students' interest in him. [Photo by Mark Rzeca] newspaper 
.,_,...__________________________________________,.,... popular light crude could fetch up 
to $24 a barrel, $10 more than . benchmark Saudi light crude will 

Apparently encouraged to roam about by the recent warmer weather, this do~ doesn't appear to 
Islamic revolutionaries arrest foreign oil workers inIran 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP)--Islamic revolutionaries arrested an American and three Britons em­ployed by an oil-drilling company yesterday on charges of "plun­derin~ the wealth of Iran by chargmg exorbitant prices," a company spokesman said. 
Sources said the four were trying to flee Iran. There were few details about the arrest. The American Embassy said it knew nothing of the matter and spokes­men of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini declined comment. 
A spokesman for California-based Flour Co., the drilling firm, identified the American as John Cassiba and the Britons as 
W. Walsh, K. Thompson and P. Dtrez. No hometowns were available. The four were em­ployed in the southern city of Aghajari. 

MAKE SURE YOUR VACATION DOESN'T TAKE OFF WITHOUT YOU. 
There's nothing lonelier than being left behind at vacation time. 
That's why we've got Continental Reps right on campus. Our travel 
specialists fill you in on schedules, discount airfares, tours and routes. And save 
you from calling all over town to get the right flight at the right price. 
Whether you're heading home or off to that special vacation, talk to your Campus Rep. Ask about our "Let Yourself Go" charge card too. We'll show you the best way for your vacation to take off. With you there to enjoy it. 
Your Campus Rep is Don Ciancio (219) 283-4682. 
The Proud Bini with the GoldenTail. 


CONTINENTAL AIRU IES 8 
North America/Hawaii/Micronesia/Orient/Australia/NewZealand/Fiji/Samoa 
cost next October when the full 
14. 5 percent increase decided on by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries takes effect. 
Before anti-shah strikes reduced Iran's oil flow to a trickle, the country was the world's second-largest petroleum exporter, producing SIX million barrels a day--5.4 million going abroad .. 
Oil experts believe Iran's pro­duction will be about half of the previous output, leaving about 
2.4 million barrels a Clay for export. 
State radio said Khomeini would move to the holy city of Qum Thursday. Observers said that did not mean his influence would be less. Khomeini's move could give Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan a freer hand in the day-to-day running of govern­ment. 
''Whenever Ayotollah Khomeini resides, he still will be the leader of Iran,'' Deputy Prime Minister Amir Entezam told the Associated Press. 
In other developments: --An Islamic firing squad 
executed  an  alleged  torture  
expert  of  the  Shah's  SAVAK  
secret police.  

--Islamic courts resumed the ancient tradition of public flog­gings. In Zmjan a large crowd turned out Sunday to watch a convicted thief receive 25 lashes. And in the eastern city of Kerman 5,000 persons watched two youths receive 30 lashes each for drinking liquor, which is forbidden by the Moslem holy book, the Koran. In Yasooj, two men got 80 lashes each for drinking. 
O·D·K· 
•


organtzes 
Omicron Delta Kappa, the national leadership honor society, has organized a chapter at Notre Dame. In order to qualify, a student must be a junior or senior, have a GPA of 
3.2 or better, and must have served in a leadership position in one of the following: academics, athletics, social life or campus government. 
The lifetime membership fee is 
$25. Activities such as tutoring, 
sports clinics, parties and direct­
ing services for the benefit of the 
student body will be spansored 
by the society. 
For more information, contact 
Roman Macia at 7018. .A. 
committee consis~ of adminis­
tration, faculty and students will 
·select members on the basis of their accomplishments. 
Hassan Nazih, new director of the National Iranian Oil Co., said, meanwhile, that Iran would resume oil exports next week. He did not say exactly when or in what amounts. 
Nazih notified oil workers in Abadan of the resumption of exports and said the production and export politics "will be based entirely on Iran's national inter­ests and we shall never accept colonially imposed ~reements.'' 
At present Iran IS producing about 700,000 barrels a day to meet domestic requirements. 
The English-language Tehran daily Kayhan International quoted highly placed oil sources as saying that exports probably would start next Sunday or Monday with supplies going to the highest bidders. 
The said Iran's 
The Observer Tuesday, February 27, 1979 -page 5 

(ap) · The relentless winter of '79 continued to pound America's midsection yesterday, spreading knee-deep snow and spilling floodwaters into many areas from Missouri to New England. 
On the day the sun blinked, to the thrill of thousands of eclipse· watchers gathered in the Pacif1c Northwest, residents of southeast Missouri and parts of Arkansas were digging out from under their worst snowstorm in 60 years. 
National Guardsmen were mo· bilized in several states for rescue work, and at least six deaths were blamed on the storm. 
Hundreds of schools were closed and power lines were tumbled by ice, snow and freez· ing rains from Cleveland to western New York State. 
Flash floods were expected in parts of New York, New Jersey, Western Pennsylvania and most of Ohio. 
Illinois Gov. James R. Thompson declared 30 counties in the southern part of the state snow emergency areas and activated Nauonal Guard Units to aid an estimated 2,000 motorists stranded on highways. 
An addiuorial i50 National Guardsmen were attempting to get food and fuel to hunareds of other motorists stranded in southeastern Missouri, where 50 m.p.h. winds had built snow­drifts up to 10 feet high. 
With an estimated 350 cars stalled on Interstate 55 and the highway dosed to all traffic, the Missouri Highway Patrol said temporary shelters were set up at armories, churches, courthouses and private homes in Sikeston, Benton, Cape Girardeau, Jackson and nearby towns. 
In Fredericktown, Mo., a doc­tor and his nurse • a husband­and-wife team • mcunted cross-country skies to reach a pregnant woman snowbound in her rural home and in labor. 
"We had tried to get out to her home in four-wheel drive vehi­cles, but we only got within a mile of the house," said Dr. Phillip Beyer, 36, who go there just in time to deliver a 9-pound, 8-ounce baby boy. 
Mrs. Everett Summers of Cape Girardeau said, "Nothing is moving. Cars are buried. It will be Thursday before we can get out. The snow is over my head out there," 
Heavy snow also fell in the 
mountains  of  northeastern  
Tennessee  and  western North  
Carolina.  

'It will be Thursday before we can 

In Maryland, where a number of roads were closed by flooding and the Potomoc river was at or near flood stage, National Guardsmen were evacuating fa. milies in low-lying areas. 
In Prince ·Georges County, 
about 400 residents of the 
Mistletoe Garden Apartments in 
Laurel were forced to evacuate 
?unday night because of flood­
mg. 

The National Weather Service said yesterday the Potomac River from West Virginia to the District of Columbia was at or near flood stage. 
In New York State, hundreds of schools were closed as ice-heavy limbs crashed onto power lines. In an area south of Buffalo and Rochester, snow was reported up to 2 feet deep. 
The coastal communities of neighboring Boston were spared expected severe flooding at high­tide yesterday morning, thanks to 
a last-minute wind shift. 



Wilma Rudolph speaks as part Black Cultural Arts · Festival 
by Mike Moran 

''The most important aspect of setting goals is to face up to what you want to accomplish and not walk away from it.'' This remark set the tone for a talk by former track star Wilma Rudolph to a crowd of about 200 interested students last night in the Library 
Auditorium. 

Rudolph, a winner of three gold medals in the 1960 Olympics, spoke as part of this year's Black Cultural Arts Festi· val, which continues through this Saturday. Festival Chairman Kevin Green summed up the importance of her speech -by noting, ''Her presentation par­alleled the ideas that the festival is intended to express." 
The stated purpose of the 1979 Festival is "to provide an aware­ness of the black cultural experi· ence, an understanding of .vari­ous aspects of Black life, an 
Byrne accuses backers of election fraud 
CHICAGO (AP)--Mayoral candi­
date Jane Byrne accused backers 
of incumbent Michael A. Bilandic 
of "doing everythins they can to 
steal" tOday's elecuon, and the 
state's attorney said three pre· 
cinct captains had been arrested 
for threatening campaign 
workers. 

Mrs. Byrne said yesterday she 
had received ' 'literally hundreds 
of call from voters, precinct 
captains and my precinct workers 
detailing cases of voter intimida­
tion, fraud in absentee ballots 
and threats ofpolitical reprisals if 
people don't do as they are told.'' 
Later yesterday state's Attor· 
ney Bernard Carey predicted: 
I 

1A lot of precinct captains will 
panic because their (ctty patron­
age)' jobs are threatened if they 
don't get out the vote. The 
heated campaigns and closeness 
of this mayoral primary may even 
spark some violence." 

Carey, at a news conference, 
said three north side Democratic 
precinct captains were arrested 
Friday for threatening to break 
the legs of two women campaign· 
ing on behalf of an independent 
running for Alderman. The 
independent candidate supports 
Mrs. Byrne. 

He said the three were char~ed 
with intimidation and preventmg 
candidate sufport and released 
on $3,000 bai pending a hearing 
in March. 

Mrs. Byrne said the FBI had contacted her regarding the elec­tion abuse charges because it has been getting the same kinds of .reports, and she was giving information to tht FBI. Bilandic and his staff were not immediate­
ly available for comment. 

But an FBI spokesman, George Mandich, said the FBI has re· ceived no election fraud com­plaints independently. He said agents contacted Mrs. Byrne's office yesterday to see if she had any information of possible viola­tions of federal statutes. 
Mrs. Byrne's charges were reinforced by David Orr, an independent candidate for city council, who said a Democratic precinct captain supervisr:d the marking of absentee ballots at a large nursing home on the city's north side, m violation of state 
[continued on page 8) 
awareness of the achievements 
and talents of Black Americans.'' 
Rudolph's experiences while growing up in Tennessee and her eventual athletic accomplish­ments provided the main subject matter for her talk. 
She ftrst described the tribula­tions of having to walk with leg braces until age nine, and the problems she encountered even when she fmally had them re· moved. "I was never included in the athletic games kids played in my neighborhood,'' she recalled, "but this motivated me to be the best at something in order to show that I did indeed have ability.'' 
While detailing her early life, the gold medalist spoke with frankness and in an informal manner. "Many students were impessed with the fact that she is a very positive person with a down-home attitude,'' Green noted afterwards. "She makes you feel like she's talking to you personally, and not just to a large crowd." 
Rudolph proceeded to expand on her strivmg for athletic recog­nition, form her basketball playing in high school to her eventual triumphs at the Olym­pics in Rome. She also gave a degree ofcredit for her successes to individuals who helped and inspired her along the way. 
Achieving international notori­ety presented Rudolph with new r.roblems. As she observed, 
'The most difficult thin_g that happened to me in growmg up was becoming world famous at age 19. Where does one go from that?" 
The star athlete's life has, however, taken on new directions Rudolph observed that she is happily married: has three child­ren, and is presently working toward her Master's Degree in Business Administration at Pea­body College in Nashville. She also operates her own public relations firm, which deals to a certain extent with training pro­grams for young athletes. 
Rudolph·retlected on these and other aspects of her life in advising the audience to set goals and pursue them, in spite of any problems which arise. 11 I feel that we'll always face problems in life," she concluded, "and ~very dail. as I look around, I say to myse , 'It's only just begtm. "' 
ARmANDO'S 
BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 1437 N.Ironwood Dr. South B"end 
277-0615 

Sue, Ruthle, Armando-stylist 
mon-fri 8-5:30 sat 8-2 by appt. only sat-no appt. needed 
'Armed Funk Tour' starring os,t.\.\.0 



t.\.~\SC 

and the Attractions 
special guest: Rubinoos 
aturday, March 10 •8:00pm (est) 
Aragon Ballroom • Chicago, Ill. 
Tickets available exclusively at River City Records, 50970 US 31 North call277 -4242 for further information 
'Madhouse Rock Tour' starring the legendary . . . 
ALICE COOPER 
SPECIAL GUEST: The Baby's 
Monday, March 5 • 8:00pm Wings Stadium • Kalan1azoo 
Tickets available exclusively at River City Records, 10970 US 31 North! 
call 277-4242 for further information 
-~~-----~------------~--------------------~-------.-----------­



Editorials 
Vote' 'Yes'' 
The controversy about Nestle's marketu.~ and distribution of 
infant formula in less developed countnes is lengthy and 
involved. Concerned groups have made accusations of 
exploitation of the poor, corporate irresponsibility, and unethi~al 
practices; and Nestle has countered these accusations by 
statements which supposedly demonstrate their own concern. 
These statements are issued from the Office of Corporate 
Responsibility, which is part of Nestle's public relations 
department. • · 
It is questionable whed1er these statements actually answer 
the accusation or are simply general and possibly inapplicable 
facts used to circumvent the charges. In either case, Nestle has 
not addressed the issue of corporate responsibility to the 
satisfaction of concerned groups. 
Part of the problem in this controversy is that the Nestle 
Company in America does not distribute or market the formula. 
It is the. Swiss corporation, Nestle, S.A. against whom the 
charges are leveled. The only way Americans can affect the 
Swiss corporation is through economic means. This can be 
achieved by boycotting the products ofits subsidiary, The Nestle 
Company. 
Today's ballot contains a referendum which asks if students want the University to support the boycott and ban Nestle products from the dining halls and vending machines. The Observer urges you to vote "Yes" and support the Nestle boycott. We believe this boycott is the only way to force Nestle to directly address the charges. 
(For background information on the Nestle boycott, see yesterday's Observer editorial page.) 
Administration violates duLac 
Dear Editor: 
Over the years, we, the stu­dents of Notre Dame, have been constantly charged with violating the rights and responsibilities expected from the Notre Dame Community as set forth in the 
dulAc manual for student life. So now, with equal concern that the rights and ·responsibilities of the community be maintained, I would like to quote dulAc in pointing out a probable Adminis­tration violation of the University Policies. 
On page 38 of the 1978-1979 version of dulAc , it is stated, "All large, domestic-type refri­gerators are prohibited (for stu­dent residence hall usage). Electric refrigerators in student rooms must not exceed 4.6 cubic feet in size and must be in good operating condition. A charge of $15 will be assessed each semes-

Wake me when it's over 
As another winter leaves us with an array of dripping icicles, grimy slush, and other frozen facets of this paradise we call Notre Dame, we discover an aspect of student life that has become as frigid and disheartening as any of Jack Frost's creations: the Student Body President elections. 
For all you nostalgia buffs, this is your time of year, because issues and platforms staunchly defended ten years ago can still be heard in the speeches our candidates give today. Take an example: in 1969, three points on every platform were: more student mvolvement in student government; closer contact between the student body and the student government; and a promise that the SBP would effectively work with the administration. If you remove most of the rhetorical nonsense in the platforms of our three candidates, these three "promises" return a bold stare. Not only were these the issues ten years ago, but they hav<; cropped up in eve~. electio~ smce then. A question naturally follows--What, if anything, can a SBP hope to accomplish if he has ten years of failure behmd him and an unyielrung administration before him?'' 
Before our three hopefuls start frothing at the mouth and sputter out phrases like "students are apathetic so it's not the SBP's fault, blah, blah, blah," I'd like to point out Article II, Section I, paragraphs two and three of the Constitution of Undergraduate Student Government. It states, in effect, that the duties ofa SBP lie baSically in being "responsive to student imerests" and "represent­ing those intersts in all areas of student life.'' For the past ten years these words rang in our ears during election time, but when a new school year rolled aro• 'd, we discovered the SBP we had chosen tc Je our voice in University affairs was muttering incoherently in his bureaucratic nest. And I can't really blame the student body for this. A quote from the March 6, 1975 issue of The !Jbserver supports my point: " ... the dismal vot~ng turn-out was not caused by student apathy alone, but rather the fact the students saw little correlation between voting for student body president and having the umversity improved.'' 
For ten years we have lacked the type of person that is outlined in the Constitution. That is the reason that 4fortune hasn't been comp!etely 
rennovated even though specific plans were drawn up in 1971. That is the reason that improved hall life and social conditions keep being thrown around the political ring year after year. That is the reason that acaderriic reform continues to be a pertinent issue despite the fact students had voiced the need for action nine years ago. No one has yet been able to grasp the reigns of the student body, jerk them out of their lethargic state, and lead them to a point where one can honestly say that this campus is . more than an Emil quiz. 
For those of you who expect Student Govern­ment to abolish {>arietals, put a· keg in every dorm, and return to Tatwan diplomatic relations with the U.S., don't hold your breath because they don't have the legislative powers. The most they can do in that respect is throw a tantrum outside the administration building. If Fr. Hesburgh decides to shrus them off, no change will occur in the Universtty' s essential structure. States a March 29, 1973 Observer article, "Student Government does have a useful function to perform. However, students should not entertain high expectations, for it has no institutional power ... As most of you have long recognized, there is no real power here. Student Government is no government.'' Well, some people have not yet recognized this fact, and included in this group of muddle-~eaded idealists always seem 'to be the candidates. Just keep in mind asJou are interrupted in your studies by a wild-eye man mouthing catch-aJI_ phrases that what he says he can do and what he can do are usually two different things. 
I wish I could end on an optimistic note and say that if the candidates would concentrate their efforts toward the students instead of playing Igor to a deaf, blind and dumb Dr. Frankenstein of an Administration, perhaps the issues won't be as frozen in time as they always seem to be. Such a statement should not go unwarranted, however. I can't possibly see any SBP eclipsing the Dome in the near future, and there doesn't seem much that we, the Student Body, can do about it except heave a weary sigh, keep our feet out of the slush, and be thankful that elections are only once a year. 
Doug Kreitzberg 
Tuesday, February 27, 1979 -page 6 
• 
P. 0. Bo~ Q 
ter against the occupants of rooms which have electric refri­gerators of prohibited size ... Due to the energy shortage these regulations will be strictly enforced.'' 
This would indicate that only those students who possess refri­gerators larger than 4.6 cubic feet should be charged the $15 per semester. No Student Union leased refrigerator is in excess of the prohibited size. Therefore, all students with refrigerators smaller than 4.6 cubic feet should be cognizant that any such charge assessed to their student account is in violation of Univer­sity Policy. 
Should the University carry out this "illegal" activity proper action shoUld be initiated to have them properly disciplined accord­ing to the Disciplinary Proce­dures of pages 31-2 of dulac. 
Gary Luchini Student Union Services Commissioner 

Not 'bemused,' but inspired 
Dear Editor: 
I am sorry Dr. Storey was "bemused" by Fr. Griffin's re­cent article. As I read Griffin, I was inspired. It's uplifting to see a shepherd who presents and reinforces those tough moral imperatives in a kindly way with an empathy for the snuggle of rule-keeping. We could have someone wtth ice water in his veins giving stern-faced readings of even the best enlightened "theology of the 6th and 9th." Such a chaplain would have as much impact on student conduct and spiritual life as the iron Moses frozen into the snow of the library lawn. Griff, however, is to be found in the warmth of Darby's Place at his listening post till all hours of the morning. 
Griff is much beloved, and it is not because he waters down the rules, for he doesn't. He is beloved because he cares about students, and he challenges them to the responsibility of making adult, Chnstian decisions. His God-given speaking, and living are unique and beautifully human. I hope you continue, like many maga­zine and book publishers, to share his insights with your readers. Those insights do our hearts good! 
Jack Martin 
The Observer welcomes com­ments from its readers. All letters and columns must be typed. Address comments· to 
P. O.Box Q, Notre Dame, In. ,or leave at Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. 


DOOIISBUBY 
~ 6131/t«~­


of either mstitution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD 
reported as accuratel,y and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............ Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray O'Bn'en Bux Q Notre Dame, JN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ John Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chns Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Langhenry Photo Editor . . . . . . . . . . Doug Chnstian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mills per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor ............ Phil Cack/_ey Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Saint Mary's Editor . . . . . . FJ/en Buddy Business Manager ........ john Tucker Mary's College. It does not :1ecessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .............. Ann Gales . Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rudy 
reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encour~:ged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 
_The Observer_ 

,..~
-
For immigration violations 

Iranians face deportation 
WASHINGTON lAP] -Thirty­eight Iranian students who have been arrested in the Los Angeles area over the past rwo months on various crirrunal charges face deportation for immigration vio­lauons, the ) ustice Department said yesterday. 
Terry Adamson a Justice De­partment spokesman, said the students did not face deportation because of the criminal charges since they have not been brought to trial. 
They could be forced to leave the country for such violations as not bc;ing c;~rolled at the colleges or untversmes where they were supposed to be attending class, Adamson said. 
The Justice Department began an investigation into the staus of Iranian and other foreign students follwing a violent dem­onstration in Beverly Hills, Calif., on Jan. 2 by ami-shah Iranian students. About 500 students were turned back by police in a protest at a mansion where the shah's sister and mother were living. 
At the direction of Attorney Gerneral Griffin B. Bell, immi­gration officials took a random survey of 500 students in the Los Angeles area and discovered that 13 5 were not attending the colleges where they were listed. 
Adamson reported yesterday that of those 135, the where­abouts of 64 are unknown, 18 are reported to have left this country, 38 are attending school else­where, 12 have applications pending for new immigration staus and three now face deporta­tion proceedings. 
The group of 500 that were surveyed included others besides Iranians. 
The group of 38 who have been arrested is separate from the random sample of 500. 
Bell has ordered a survey of the foreign student situation to 
be completed within a month. The ) ustice Department pre­viously reported that there are some 235,000 foreign students listed as being in this country, including some 50,000 Iranians. 

mem of music has been accepted as an associate member of the
Officials say U·S· ready to use 
National Association of Schools of Music. NASM has been desig·
force to protect interests · 
nated by the Council on 
WASHINGTON (ap) -Two . administration officials said yes­terday that the Unitd States is prepared to use military force if necessary to protect oil sources and vital interests in the Mideast. 
' 'Protection of the oil flow from the Mideast is clearly part of our vital interests,'' said Defense Secretary Hold Brown. " .. .In protection of these vital imersts, we'll take any action that's appropriate, including the use of military force." 
The · defense secretary added that military force "is not ne­cessarily appropriate in every instance.'' 
Energy Secretary James Schlesinger, speaking U.S. interests in the Persian Gulf, said, "The issue of a -u.s. military presence is under con­sideration. That would involve military personnel. Whether it would involve a deployment of troops .... combat arms of the ground forces, is another ques­tion." 
Brown's comments were in response to questions about Soviet actions in the Mideast. The defense secretary said that while all problems in the region cannot be blamed on the Soviet Union, the Russians are "clearly eager to fish in muddv waters.' 
He said that many· nations in the Mideast recogmze a threat from the Soviet Union. 
'clearly eager 
to fish in muddy waters.' 
''the United States is prepared to counter such a threat from a major power with whatever means are necessary,'' Brown said. "The United States is prepared to defend its vital Interests with whatever means are appropriate, including mili­tary force where necessary, whether that's in the Middle East or· elsewhere. ' ' 
Brown made the comments on the CBS interview program "Face the Nation." 
Postsecondary Accreditation as the a~en<;y responsi~le for. theSchlesinger, appearing on accreditation of mus1c cumculaNBC's "Meet the Press," said in higher education, and by thewhen pressed for specifics, United States Office of Education ''These matters are under review as the agency responsible for the and it would be inappropriate for accreditation of all music curricu­me to get into specfics at this la.
time.'' 
============================== 'Yours1 mine1 andours ' 
Experts discuss sexuality 
Two marria~e and family ex­r,erts will discuss the topic, 
'Sexuality: Yours, Mine, and Ours'' tonight in the Architecture Auditorium at 7:30p.m. 
Joan Aldous, professor of Soci­ology, stresses however, that the discussion will deal with many problems facing Notre Dame and 
Saint  Mary's  students  at  the  
present time.  
Aldous also pointed  out  that  

newspaper clippings of recent editorials and letters to the editor concerning sex and dating prob­lems at Notre Damt were sent to the rwo experts, Richard N. Hey, professor and head of Family Social Science at the University of Minnesota, and Juanita Evans Leonard, a marriage and family counselor from INdianapolis. 
''The clippings should provide them with a little background on the situation here," Aldous said. 
The rwo speakers will begin the dialogue by making bnef presentations, but a large part of the program will be devoted to answering questions from the audience. 
The session is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Department of Sociology and Anthropology and the Department of Theology, as well as the Saint Mary's Department of Religi~us Studies. 
K of C accepts applications 
The Knights of Columbus Council is now accepting applica­tions for hall captains. Duties include distributing a newsletter rwi~~ !1 mo~th, coordinating hall acnvmes w1th the Council and attending one meeting a month with all the captains. Applica­tions are now available from K of C secretary Roman Macia. The deadline is March 9. 




Student election 
Student elections are being held today across campus. Students can vote in their re~pective dorms from 11:30 a.m.-1 
p.m. and from 5-6:30 p.m. Off-campus residents can vote in the Huddle from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. All undergraduates are eligible to vote. 
Besides selecting a new Student Body President and SBVP, students can also cas a yes or no vote on rwo referenda--A World Hunger Coalition ban on Nestle's products and a proposed amendment to the student goevernmem constitution which would place an off-campus representative on the Student Government Board Commissioners. 
Marc Woodward, Ombudsman Election Commissioner, indicated that any SBP/SBVP tickets which receive s a sir.lple majority of the vote (at least on vote over 50 percent) will win the election. If no candidate receives such a majority, a special run-off election will be held on Thursday. · 
Saint Mary's are the Bachelor of accreditation in July 1978. Ruth Music in Performance in piano, Fischer, piano faclty member and voice, organ and harpsichord; chairman of the departmental Bachelor of Music in Music accreditation committee, repre­Education and Bachelor of Music sented Saint Mary's at the na­in Theory and Literature. A new tional convention of NASM in Bachelor of Arts degree in music Colorado Sprinp last November will be submitted for plan ap-where she rece1ved the award for proval from NASM in April and the College. will be in effect for the academic Ofthe f17 new member institu­year 1979-80. tions, Saint Mary's was the only 
Susan Stevens, chairman ofthe Catholic women's liberal arts department of music, received college admitted. 

-------------------------------~--------------------------­
, 
The Observer Tuesday, February 27, 1979 -page 8 
•• / River Citv Records & ' • 

White House sends standby plans 
, Celebration Productions Present' 
. THE 


OUTLAWS 
IN CONCERT 
special guest Wireless Frida_y March 2 • 8:00pm Morris Civic Auditorium 
Advance Tickets $8.00/7.00 now on sale at River City Records 50970 U.S. 31 N. 3 miles north of campus 
and at the Morris Civic Box ' call 277-4242 for furthur information • 
WASHINGTON [Alj -The White House is sending Con­gress standby plans for gasoline rationing and other energr,· saving measures that likely wtll include allocation of crude oil among refmeries and restrictions on weekend retail sales of gaso­line and diesel fuel. 
Administration officials said the plans would be sent to Capitol Hill today. 
Any gasoline rationing plans probably will be based on the assignment of coupons to owners of registered vehicles, according to sources who asked for anony­mity. The coupons could be freely bought and sold. 
Other details, including the amounts of gasoline likely to authorized for various classes of uses, remained to be settled. 
Published repons have said the rationing plans would limit motorists to less than two gallons of gasoline a day. 
for gas rationing to Congress 
But Jim Bishop, an Energy Depanment spokesman, strongly 
denied  such  repons  Moriday  
night,  calling  them a ''total  
fabrication.''  

He added that the administra· tion plans contain "no reference to a specific gallonage" in gaso­line rationing plans. 
Enerw Secretary James R. Schlesmger told the House Budget Committe last week that the loss of Iranian oil production during the political turmoil there could lead to mandatory steps to insure an adequate supply of heatin~ oil next winter, causmg a reduction in ''gasoline availabil­ity." 
"There will be a gasoline problem · in all likelihood · this summer," Schlesinger said. 
Iran's revolutionary govern­ment has said it will resume oil expons soon, but it has not disclosed how much oil will be exponed or to whom it will be 
EARN OVER$650AMONTH 




RIGHT THROUGH YOUR 

ORYEAR. 
If you're a junior or senior majoring in sciences like math, physics or engineering, the Navy has a program you should know about. 
It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate­Collegiate Program (NUPOC-C for short) and if you qualify, you can earn as much as $650 a month right through your senior year. Then after 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, you'll get an additional year of advanced technical education. This would cost thousands in a civilian school, but in the Navy, we pay you. 
It isn't easy. There are fewer than 400 openings and only one of every six applicants will be selected. But if you make it, you'll have unequaled hands-on responsibility, a $24,000 salary in four years, and gilt­edged qualifications for jobs both in the Navy and out. 
Ask your placement officer to set up an interview with a Navy representative when he visits the campus, or contact your Navy representative at 800-841-8000, orsendinthecoupon.The NUPOC-C Program. Not only can it help you complete college. It can be the start of an exciting career. 
I 
NAVY OPPORTUNITY 9637
.--------------..I 
INFORMATION CENTERI P.O. Box 2000, Pelham Manor, N.Y.10803 I Yes, I'd like more informa!jon on ' II the NUPOC·C Program ( !110). 
I I
Name t-"Lr•t !l'leollHPtultt J.auu
I I
Address 
I c~ I
State Zip____ 
I Age tCollege/University II I
:!:Graduation Date !Grade Point I .lMajor/Minor I Phone Number-~=-------­
.______________..
I CNP 2/8 """"""" I 
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. 
sold. 
Meanwhile, White House and Energy Depanment spokesman have emphasized that no emer­gency is anticipated soon. 
Bishop did not disclose details of the standby plans, but said they generally would follow the outlines which officials have recently discussed in public. 
During con~ressional testi· mony earlier this month, David J. Bardin, head of the Ener~ Department's Economic Regula· tory Administration, said manda­tory fuel-savind may become necessary if voluntary conserva­tion is not effective. 
He outlined mandatory measures as possibly including federally imposed allocations of curde oil among refineries and allocations of gasoline, fuel oil and other refmed products at he wholesale level. 
Bardin said direct consumer rationing would be considered only as a last-ditch effon. 
Energy officials have also said they may have to restrict week­end sales of gasoline and diesel fuel, even ordering Sunday closings. 
... Bilandic 
[continuedfrom page 5] 
law. 
Bilandic, 56, was an alderman from the Bridgepon neighbor­hood when Mayor Richard ) . Daley died Dec. 20, 1977. Ctty Council named him mayor, and he easily won a June 1978 special election to fill the remainder of Daley's sixth four-year term. 
Like Bilandic, Mrs. Byrne, 43, was a disciple of Daley's, serving as his cabinet-level commissioner of consumer affairs and co-chair man of the Cook County Demo­cratic Central Committee. 
Bilandic fired her after she R\lbl,i~ly .Q'larged. that he helped facilitate taxicab fare increases in violation of city laws. Investi· gations were conducted, but no charges have been brought. 
The winner of the Bilandic­Byrne race, will face the winner of today' s Republican primary on April 3. 
Dolan announces competition 
The annual competition to 
select the best manuscript in 
American Catholic studies for 
publication has been announced 
by Dr. Jay P. Dolan, director of 
the Center for the Study of 
American Catholicism at Notre 
Dame. 
The author of the award­
winning manuscript will receive a 
$500 prize and the book will be 
published by the University of 
Notre Dame Press in their series, 
''Notre Dame Studies in . American Catholicism.'' 
To be eligible for publication, 
manuscripts must be peninent to 
the study of the American 
Catholic experience, though the 
series is not limited to any one 
discipline. Unrevised dissena­
tions normally will not be con­
sidered. 
Manuscripts must be received 
by the Notre Dame Center by 
September 1 for consideration in 
the new competition. 
------------------------. 
The Observer Tuesday, February 27, 1979 -page 9 
Bergland asks for farm/crop insurance program reforms 

WASfDNGTON IAPJ-Agriculture Secretary Bob Bergland asked yesterday that Congress enact ''A comprehensive reform'' of federal farm disaster and crop insurance programs, a plan tht" administration unsuccessfully advocated last year. 
Called the Farm Producation 
Protection Act of 1979, the mea­
sure "is the administration's top 
priority in farm legislation for 
this session of Congress," 
Bergland said. 
The proposal would combine the insurance programs of the department's Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, federal farm disaster indemnity and other payment programs, and the subsidized-interest portion of emergency loans made by the department's Farmers Home Administration and the Small Business Administration. 
After consolidation, the de­partment'~ Commodity Credit Corporation would be responsible for the new insurance program, Bergland said. The current FOC would be dissolved. 
The insurance program would cover all risks and would be offered to all producers in all counties. In the first Jear it would cover 18 crops an later, over 10 years, would be 

Study Help
Program holds meeting 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program will be holding a brief meeting for all tutors tonight at 
6:30 in the SMC Oubhouse. There will be a guest s~er, refreshments, and door pnzes at the meeting. 
For information, call Sue at 41-4691. 
Museum loans art toND 
Two French Master paintings from the Norton Simon Museum of Art in Padena, Calif. have been loaned to Notre Dame and will be added to regular exhibits during March in the art gallery. The important works were com­pleted by Francois Boucher (1703-1770) and Odilon Redan (1840-1916). 
Boucher's painting, "La Belle Villageoise," is acclaimed by critics as an excellent example Of the artist's genre subjects. 
The Simon Foundation's Redan painting, simply entided "Flowers in a Brown Vase," has a direct appea based on its clear colors and rich use of paint. One of the most important Symbolist artists of the late 19th century, Redan brings to the art of flower painting a new sensibility, a poetic atmOSphere that lends to the painting a dreamlike quality. 
Also on exhibit during March at the Notre Dame Gallery wil be modem art from the Permanent Collection, 20th century European and Americann works of P1casso, Chagall, Gotdieb, Calder and others, and Old Master Drawings, Renaissance and Baroque works of Cambiaso, Guercino, Pellegrini and van Goyen from Notre Dame's collec­tion. The gallery in O'Shaughnessy Hall is open daily until ~ p.m. and guided tours are available by request. There is no admission charge. 
expanded to cover "all other 
commerically produced farm 
products," he said. 
Bergland said "specialty in­
surance" could be developed on 
livestock, fish farming and other 
aquaculture products, prevented­
planting situations and others on 
an experimental basis. 
propsal are barley, citrus, com, 
cotton, dry beans, flax, ~rain 
sorghum, oats, peamuts, rrusins, 
rice, rye, sugarcane, sugarbeets, 
sunflowers, soybeans, tobacco 
and wheat. 
Congressional hearings were 
held last year on a similar 
insurance proposal but failed to 
gain approval before adjourn­
ment. 
Bergland said the plan would 
cost an estimated $632 million 
the first year, compared to a cost 
Saturday the Notre Dame-O'Hanlons volleyball team defeated Wheaton College JJ-11, JJ-Bio
of $653 million for the existing 
capture first place in the Wheaton Invitational Volleyball Tournament [photo by Jay Rafter]
programs. 
Casino Commission grants permanent license 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.j. [API -The The commission flady rejected New)ersey Casino Control Com­the state's 17 legal objections misston voted unanimously yes­against Resorts lnternation fJ..Ied terday to grant Resorts Internat­Dec.. 4 after a year-long, $1.~ ional Inc. a permanent license for million investigation into the ftrm its Boardwalk casino. by the attormey general's Divis 
"It sounds like we're in busi­ion of Gaming Enforcement. ness,'' a jubilant company 
"I have found no facts which 
president I.G. "Jack" Davis Jr. 
suggest to me that this applicant said after the decision. "I think is not qualified for licensure " 
the commission has made a very commission Chairman Joseph P. fme ruling and it bodes very well 
Lordi said. 
for the industry." 
Lordi said evidence showed theThe license allows Resorts ftrm had no ties to organizedInternational to operate up to crime, its Adan tic City casinothree casino hotels here. It must financing was acceptable and thebe renewed annually by the ftrm is now "runrung a well-con­five-member commission, con­trolled casino.'' 
sidered a formality, and can be revoked at any time. The company, which also 
The ~-0 vote came after seven operates two casinos in the weeks of commission hearings Bahamas, opened the East's first into charges by the New Jersey legal casino last May 26 in the attorney general's office that former Chalfonte-Haddon Hall Resorts International had ties to Hotelhere. organized crime, associated with The casino, one of the largestbusiness men of questionable and most profitable in the world, integrity and mismanaged has already grossed more than 
casinos here and in the Bahamas. $160 million, a rate three times Four afftrmative votes were better than the largest casinos on needed to grant the license. the Las Vegas strip. 
... Flanner 
[continued from page 1) conduct this business or not lies under his jurisdiction. ''But what
sales, or is it a hall grocery magazines are ~ole--that could be store?" he wondered aloud. 
a hall council or hall staff"Where do we draw the line, or decision,'' he said. 
don't we?" 
Roberts was not optimisticRoberts indicated that he plans about the chances of resumed to re-instate magazine sales at Playboy or Penthouse magazinehis operation .. 
sales, however. "As far as I'm concerned, we ''Ifit (the application) comes to are," Roberts said. "But I'm him and if it was his decision, I trying to get the hall council's think John Reid probably would go-ahead Defore I do anything.'' not OK it, on the grounds that it 
(sale of Playboy or PenthouseHe said that the issue will be magazines) ts out of place in abrought up at a meeting of the Catholic school," RobertsFlanner Hall Council. If the observed.
council approves, Roberts siad that he plans to ftle an application as soon as possible. "If we do come back (resume Fr. Griffin 
magazine sales), we would prob­ably carry the same kind (of 
to celebrate 
magazines)," Roberts com­mented. 
The Flanner manager reported Lenten Masses 
that magazine slaes, before they There will be a special Lenten
were discontinued, accounted for a small part of the toal sales at Mass at 12:1~ p.m. on the 
weekdays of Lent in thethe oudet. ''They were ust like a LaFortune Ballroom beginningservice," Roberts said. 
tomorrow, Ash Wednesday. TheConcerning the s~c. issue celebrant will be Fr. Robertof magazine sales, Re1d Sa.J.d that Griffin, University Chaplain. 
the decision to allow food sales to 

• 

r The Observer -Sports Tuesday, February 27, 1979 -page 10 
• • • Irish cagers 
(continuedfrom page 12) shape for the playoffs and . that Notre Dame's record now Larry Gillman. ''Notre Dame is takes its toll." stands at 22-3 while the Pirates Notre Dame boasted six drop to 12-15 on the season.
so big and aggressive on the 
glass that they hurt you. Their player~ in double figures as the The Irish finish the regular press was also effecuve because se~on's leading scorer, Kelly season this weekend as they hit 
Tnpucka, sat out resting a the road to take on DePaul and1t was aggressive. " 
Michigan. .
sprained ankle. Laimbeer topped Gillman's team ~ed to hit "We knocked DePaul out ofIrish with 17 points followed byon only 44 percent of therr second the final four last year,'' re­Tracy Jackson and Flowers whohalf shots, but still stayed in the minded Phelps. ''They just beat poured in 15 and 14 pointsgame until the last two minutes Marquette and would love torespectively. Laimbeer shareddue to ND' s dreadful 39 percent make it two in a row against ND.
rebounding honors with Orlandoaccuracy. 
Michigan is going to be very 
"A lot of our problems stem Woolridge totaling 13 caroms. tough too. Our players think it from the fact that we've been All-American Mack led all will be a fun game, but Arkansas conditioning hard for the play­scorers with 20 po.i.nts while was a fun game last year and we offs,'' explained Diggef Phelps. Maynor chipped in 17 for the lost that one. This game is no 

"We are getting into top .~:-hysical losing cause. 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 25 Discharge 46 Oneofthe 12 Walkway 1 Support 26 Hulled corn three B's 13 Pallid 5 Putaway 29 Gush 47 Wheat 21 Decrease in 
10 Pacific 33 Unexcelled measure strength Islands 34 Italian 50 Fish 23 Rim fabric resort 54 Oratorio 25 Church 
14 Strip of. 35 Seine part official wood tributary 55 Rubout 26 Disliked 15 Florida 36 Josip Broz 57 Department 27 Relish tray resort city 37 Twelve of France item 
16 Ahme! 38 Observe 58 Sweater 28 Specks 17 Storyteller carefully material 29 Judged 18 Asianwild 39 Uniform 59 Flavor !with "up") 
sheep 40 Declare 60 Bean 30 Musical 19 -and kin 41 Expunged 61 Toboggan instrument 20 Make con-_ 42 Untenanted orpung 31 Chemical 
cession 44 Seriesof 62 Extends compound 22 Plump prayers over 32 Thin and 24 Floaton 45 Took to 63 Simple task piping 
air 
court 34 Cherished DOWN 37 Immemorial 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 1 -breve 41 Deduct from 2 Kind of wages 
bond 43 Bitter herb 3 Lat. abbr. 44 Sports cars 4 Surrender 46 Buffalo 5 Pompous 47 Biscayne 6 Fortune-and others 
telling card 48 Russian 7 Muslim river title 49 Old title 8 Resort for a king hotel 50 Household 9 Hudson's member ship 51 Havoc &+I~~Lfll 10 Run away 52 Bombeck I!-~~!!~!!!!~~~~ 11 Muhammad 53 Bound 2/27/79 and MacGraw 56 Chat 
® 1979 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. All Rights Reserved 
I 
I Molarity 
I 
I 
I'LL H~Vf MY THIN6S 
I i f£U.O. JIOUSING JIJGT 
HMf) UP HERE SOON. C»k:E
!SENT ME OVER-I'M YOU*f 
f 
· NEW RCX>t1H41J:.. YOU~
I ) ' 


consolation game for us.'' 
Rossman will fight bout maybe... 
NEW YORK [AP] -Mike Rossman, who was last seen standing in the ring in Las Vegas waiting for a fight that didn't happen, will defend the World Boxmg Association light heavy­weight title against former cham­
pion Victor Galindez at a site and . Foi'uxird Tracy jackson pumped in 15 points to cud in the Irish 
date to be determined within the 
victory over East Carolina, 89-72, last night in the ACC. [Photo
next 13 days, promoter Bob by]ohn .Macor]Arum said Monday. The bout, which was not held Saturday because of the WBA and the Nevada State Athletic 
A N T s k 
Commission battled to a draw • . . • . • • ta. e intramural
over the naming of fight officials, probably will be held in New. Orleans, Miami ... or Las VegaS. 
tourney at Saint Mary's
Madison Square Garden in New 
York is a possibility. . 
And it probably will be televis-· by Beth Huffman game for the A.N.T.S., as they, ed by ABC, which got burned Sports Writer too, had four male teammates. It Saturday. Probably. was not until the final seconds of 
''It is an attractive fight and we . 1be AN.T.S. _(Absolutely No the game that the A.N.T.S. wantto televise it ifwe can fmd a Talent Squad) 1s certainly a pulled ahead with a basket for a date," Jim Spence, vi.ce presi-misnomer for Kathleen Bracken, 30-28 win. dent of ABC Sports, said, adding . Mary· Dornbos, Joni Glockner, The fmals saw the A.N.T.S. that the experience hasn't soured· Beth J:Iuffma:n, ]oanie Imler, face the Bean Heads for the ABC's outlook toward boxiftg~ . Judy Liberatore, Mary McClus-tourney crown. Competition "We still want to carry what we . kt;y, and Sue Schriber. ·These' began and -remained close until consider meaningful fights." ·, · Saint Mary's students compose the second half when the 
Although it was a deadlock the 'intramilral-winning basket-A.N.T.S. staged a scoring ram­between the WBA and the ball team. page while maintaining a tough Nevada Commission that kayoed. En route to their win in the defense. The final scoring saw the fight, Spence said: "~•1· all to\Jinarnent, the A.N.T.S. com-the A.N.T.S. take the win and the candor, I feel that the promoter, p~led a.4:0 record. The· t~urney tourney at 28·21. Top Rank (headed by Arum),' began With the A.N.T:S. fJISt As the tourney victors the should have·sorted it (the matter, opp~nents failing to appear, thus A.N.T.S. will have their name of officials) out before Saturday. .a Wlri by fqrfeit. · . engraved on a trophy, which after 
"I'm a very careful guy. . . Next,· the A.N.T.S. were chal-a week will be placed in the Galindez (WBA President leng~d by,theteam f~om Student trophy case at Angela Atheltic Mandry Galindez of Venez.uela) Affarrs, a. team which boasted · Facility. The squad members told me that we could use Nevada, four male players and many Saint will also be invited to participate officials because Nevada, a . Mary's .a~etic coaches. Despi~e in the All. Sports Banquet to be member of the rival World troubles containing the male held later this year. · Boxing Council, would join the .. ineinbers of the Student Affairs WBA before the fight;"Arum ''squad1 the A.N.T.S. pumped in said. Nevada did, but It didn1t poiritsfora41-18romp. 
save the fight. ' The A.N:T.S;' toughest com-. .. Martin 
Galindez, from his base. in petition of the tourney proved to Caracas, Monday urged both · be iri· the. form of the Super fighters to stay in shape· and Swishers, whom they ·met in the make plans for a title fight 1'as · semi-fmals. The Super Swishers 
[continued from page 12]
soon as possible.'' · proVid~d'. a tough aggressive
' . . 
Martin's situation developed last ] uly when, after calling 
. I 
Steinbenner and slugger Reggie 
'Michael Molinelli Jackson liars, he resigned as 
Yankee manager in a tearful 
press conference at a kansas City 
bote. 
Five days later, he returned to 
Yankee Staduim for Oldtimer's 
Day and· received a tumultuous 
welcome from a capacity crowd 
when it was announced that he 
would be returning as manager in 
.1980. The agreement for his 
return .had been worked out in 
.tedious negotiations between 
Steinbrenner and· Newton and, 
according to the owner, it includ­
ed a clause: req~g Martin to 
· conduct himself m the best 
·interests of the Yankees . 
. .
.
. •'' 
,·, . 
• , ...r ·, ... 
l. \ .. 


Insh diver Betsy Shadley displays the form that has earned her 
the right to compete in the national championships. [Photo by jlm K/ocu) 
Classifieds 
Tuesday, February 27, 1979 -page 11 
.. In diving, swimming 
NDwomen qualify for nationals 
by Mjchael Orman 
just 3. 75 seconds behind winnner Holr: by just 1.10 points. 
Sports Writer 
David Campbell, also of Notre Shadley and Blatt can legally Dame. She also earned a blue compete on the small collegeIt used to be that varsity ribbon at Western Ontario when level because of the size of Notl'e 
swimmin~ at Notre Dame was she clocked a time of 10:52.9 in Dame's female enrollment. The 
reserved JUSt for the men. But 
the same event. university's women number less last season, freshman diver Betsy 
Shadley has also scored a than 3,000 so girls can participateShadley broke that sex barrier, number of points for the Irish in small college national competi­beconung the flCSt female ever to over the past two years. The flCSt tion. 
make the Irish swim team. This win of her Notre Dame career ''I'm extremely happy for both season freshman freestylist came just two weeks ~o against of them,'' commented coach Jeannie Blatt joined Shadley in Marshall. Shadley talhed 162.65 De..nis Stark. "I'm also happythe team's female ranks. 
points in the 1-meter required that the university was willing to 
Yesterday, both girls received diving, beating Marshall's Jim send them to Reno.'' some rather exciting news. They both have qualified for and will participate in the 1979 Small College National Swimming and 
Syracuse ends season with win 
Diving Championships in Reno, Nev. The four-day champion­SYRACUSE, N.Y. [AP] -Led After missing his first sevenships will run from March 7 by Louis Orr's 17 points and 11 shots in the opening moments,through 10. 
rebounds, eishth-ranked Syra­Jene Grey kept LeMoyne in the"l couldn't believe it," ex­cuse University closed out its ~arne with 20 flCSt-half pointsclaimed Shadley. "I thought winningest regular basketball mcluding a 14-point spree in 10coach was kidding when he gave Monday with aseason night minutes th~t cut Syracuse's lead me the news." 
92·60 victory over crosstown rival from 18 to eight points. 
Blatt's response was similar. 
LeMoyne Colle~e. Although hanipered by fouls,"I'm very excited about it, to say Syracuse ran 1ts record to 24-2, Grey finished with a game-highthe least," she said. "I just hope 
going into Wednesday's Eastern 28 points.• I can do well when I get there. College Athletic Conference play­Syracuse ran its winning streak I'm really honored to be repre­off against St. Bonaventure 10 to 18 games with scoring helpsenting Notre Dame on the neutral Rochester. 
from Roosevelt Bouie, who had
national level. " LeMoyne gave ·Syracuse a 16 points, and Danny Shayes,Blatt has had two second place struggle, shutting out the taller who had 12.
finishes this year, competing Orangemen for the flCSt three 
with the men. Against St. minutes while scoring six points. LeMoyne, a Division II school, Bonaventure her time of 10:49.75 LeMoyne held on to its lead for fell to 14-9 and had scoring help in the 1,000-yard freestyle was three more minutes until Orr put from Jim McDermott, who had 19 good enough for second place, Syracuse ahead to stay at 11-10. points. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m .. two days prior to the 1ssue in which the ad Is ru". The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday. 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All cl<h>ifieds must be pre·pa1d. either in person or through the ma11. 
Greg Solman,
FOUND: Gold high-school class ring -Interested In summer camp jobs? FOR SALE: Canon AT-1, with 1.8,
Notices Counselors-instructors wanted for pres­Thanks for letting us have your ticket.
outside Rock -says Blue Ash on it. Call excellent condition, warrantee. Call 
7883 to Identify. tige private boys and girls camps near You are one of the nicest guys at NO. 
Kalamazoo. John, 8534. Beth and Patsy Attention Stnlon: Lawrence Seeger
FOUND: A calculator between Flanner
The Senior Arts Festival Is looking for FOR SALE: Gas stove, $25, 289-1820. Dear Mr. Guidelines,
and Grace. Call1641 to Identify. 1765 Maple
aspiring photographers who wlsh to Northfield, ILL 60093 Functional. Two of your faithful assistants attended exhibit their work during festival week. your party Friday night. Thanks for
LOST: Brother lost gold Michigan StateSubmit photographs to Bernadette class ring last Saturday night at hockey Need ride for 2 to Ft. Myers, Fla. over USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., SUn. Inviting us, It was fun. Next time you
Young, 317 Badfn or Kevin Pritchett, 124 9-7, Ralph Casperson, 1303 Buchanan throw a party, why don't you show upII
game at ACC. Ring was for class '76 with break. Can leave Wed., call Brian 1423. 
Keenan. Road, Niles. 683-2888. P.C. and B. H.
green stone. It has sentimental value. 
Call 8410. Need ride to U. of Mich. on March 2 andFOUNTAINVIEW PLACE NURSING ride back after the game of the 4th. If you Rich,
HOME In Mishawaka needs volunteers to Here's awink
LOST: Would the person who picked my can blliP. ~~~ Mike 3889.
assist In various phases of care for their 
Tickets
Lido ski sweater In the library for me. butresidents. Feeding, visiting: activities 
doesn't know who I am, please call 1219. OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year round. Rich, 
program. Call Volunteer Services, 7308. Reward -no questions asked. Eurpoe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. Here's another wink. All fields, $500-$1200 monthly. Expenses Desperately need De Paul tlx. Call Mark 
Save your Saturday afternoon for the paid. Sightseeing. Free Info.-Write: 1863. Keith,
FOUND: One cream colored knit hat
Alumnae Seminar, March 31-3 pm In the IJC, Box 4490-14, Berkely, CA 94704. Happy Birthday to a SUper PERSON.
outside of Lyons. CAll 7962 to claJm.
Library Auditorium. Stimulating discus· loveya, Mom slon about life after Notre Dame wlth 
CINCINNATI women who've experienced II. If you're going In that direction March 2 St. Sue,
PersonalsFor Rent 
and coming back March 4, Wll'd like to go Only one day left until the BIG day!
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND with you. We'll share driving expenses love, the Night Clerk Student loans $20-$150, 1 percent Inte­and provide witty conversation. Call Mo, Man: Kllly­rest, due In 30 days. Lafortune basement 5-bedroom. 2-baths available for new 6369or Jean, 8148, so WI! can be there for Yawn ... Done at 5:00a.m. Have a nice CARL 0. AUMEN, 
11:30-12:30 M-F. school year $300 mo. Will rent June 1 our friend's wedding. day! It J11Y1 to rud tile penenalal HM I thru summer for $150 mo. 232-9498, very Happy Birthday! CONTACT LENS WEARERS. Save on 291·4528. L.A.C.
Need ride to Ft. Lauderdale over break 
WGR Is sexless!
brand name hard or soft lens supplies. Will share driving and expenses. Call Send for free Illustrated catalog. Contact Walk to campus. 6-bedroom house for MUSIC LOVERS: Give yourself a treat­
Perry 1409. 
MYSTIC BILL STOREY:
Lens Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix, Arl· rent this fall. Furnished. Call 272-1729 no disco -just the Grateful Dead, Friday
An ancient relative of Sir Thomas More
zona 85011. after 7:00. Need ride to Madison Friday afternoon, will make a guest appearance for this night at Senior Bar. . • __ March 2, and to Ft. Lauderdale over 
Wednesday's seminar. Holy Hosannas!
Nocturne Nlghtlllght, WSND-89FM, House for rent 3 blocks golf course. $75 spring break. Call Lisa 8112. Jullln till Apoltltl K.eliy i.., Kathy C., Marybelh S., Clel K.,
HAND NOTAR-OONATO features mo., fireplace. Available Sept. 233-1329. 
Mary G., SteveS., Mike D.• DanS., JohnCrosby, Stills and Nash, "CSN" tonight. 
Need a ride to the Wilt CDIIt of Florida RENEW, Inc. needs volunteers for Just a S., Paul N.. Bob T.• Paul K. and Tim T.:
Furnished four bedroom house for rent for spring bruk. I nnt to go homllll You are all so special. THANKS!
few hours for the next few weekendsfor next school year. Couple blocks from Call 7912 or 4&03 PLEASEI 
(painting and minor repairs on homes In MaryM.
campus. 2n-3604. 
the ND neighborhood). Take an active
I MISS MINNESOTA and I won't see St.
Lost&Found Interest In your neighbors. Call Volunteer I have been kidnappedI I am agrey coat. 
Paul again unless some kind soul gives Services, 7308. My owner has not even bothered to lookWanted me a ride for spring break. Will share for me. She Is areal b-l·t-c (well, you getLOST: At Giuseppe's Sat. night· driving and expenses-Aileen, 3749. The Adonia, AI Paclno and Dlonyslua -the Idea). If anyone finds me, I'd be glad
1. an open, tie at neck, off-white sweater 
ND's 3gadflys -are searching for transpo to have a new owner.
and off white pair of mittens. Need ride to Buffalo or Nlagra Falls for Need ride to/from east coast Fla.-Vero 
to DePaul and Michigan thisrri./Sun -If
2. aSMC key·chaln with a SMC I D and 2 Spring Break. Will share in all expenses. Beach area or more south. Can leave going, call their agent Turd• Snorllel at Janie Knight-keys on it. Call Jean at 8037. 3/16, return 3/24,25,25. Will share Congratulations roomie! I knew your
3748.
If found. please call Cathy Perreault at driving, expenses. Maryann 6859. 
red hair would get you something.
41-5168 (LeMans) $5 reward! Need ride to Dallas for spring break. Call Need ride to Florida 1 Bus leaving
Mary Meg at 8037. Need ride to Chicago this Friday. Call 
Friday at bruk for Fort I.Judenlale. $75. TYPEWRITER ON THE BUNK? CallLOST: Gold chain at 823 ND Ave. Mark 1863. Clll Harry 8922. George (yes, the mechanic) and he'll
Friday nile (pimp party). Great senti­Need ride to Long Island for spring break. have lt working In no time. 3369. mental value. Reward. Dave 6828. Will share In expenses. Call John at 
LOU ANN, MY LOVE FROM LEMANS:3507. Only love conquers lear. Take me, I'm Mike Kelley:
LOST: My green rugby Jacket at 
For Sale 
yours. You're beautiful. I LOVE YOU!
Giuseppe's last Saturday. Please, If WANTED: ride to Chicago this Wllekend. NORTON A Moral Supporteryou've found It returen it. I need It lor Will share expenses. Call Adrienne the Ireland trip. Tim 1445-reward. 289-1572. 
Dear Wild Kathy,
Notre Dame at Michigan Basketball 
Thanx for your service above, below
LOST: Black german shepherd puppy WANTED: Need ride to Hartford, CT. tickets for sale, (Sunday, March 4), $2. 
and a little to the left of the call of duty.
named Gretchen, In the vicinity of area for spring break. Want to leave Mike, (313)663-3011. 
love, Vaughan
Uncolnway West and Chapin. Call Wed. afternoon. but will accept most 233-7213. Reward anything. Please call Marybeth 288-1978 Ford Supervan. Regular Gas. 
EJE:
9049. Captains chairs, western mirrors, rear & 
You are the ''greatest' •dee-jay an have
LOST: One crutch outside of the Library side door glass. Ready for conversion. 
the 11 show at WSND. But, your are also
about a week and a half ago. II you've Need ride to SEATTLE spring break. $6500 or best offer. Chris, zn-4292 or 
the "greatest" man In the world to me. 
seen this crutch alive. call Mike at 1678. Will share driving and expenses. Call 287-7272. 
love forever, Your fanSteve Miller 7829 evenings around 11. 


~ ~~---~--------­
r 

Tuesday, February 27, 1979 -page 12 
====~~~========================~~====~=== 
Irish cagers win home finale ; Flowers, Laimbeer MVP 's 

by Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
In their last home game of their coflege careers, seniors Bruce Flowers and Bill Laimbeer led Notre Dame to their 22nd win of the year against a stubborn East Carolina squad, 89-72. 
It was Laimbeer who got the Irish offense rolling as he scored eight of his team's first 11 points rocketing ND to a 28-12 lead. 
Super-jumper Oliver Mack, aided by the perimeter shooting of George Maynor, brought the Pirates to within nine at 35-26 ­which is how the margin stood at the half with the home team holding a 45-36 advantage. Cooling off, Notre Dame failed to score in the final two minutes of the first stanza. 
East Carolina outrebounded Notre Dame in the first twenty minutes, 15-12 and shot nearly 57 percent from the floor to stay dose to their third rar....'<ed opposi­tion. Mack led all scorers at the half with 14 points as he com­bined a fine shooting touch with his driving ability. 
Laimbeer' s 13 points was his best output for a half this year. The two Irish captains connected on 8-of-9 of their field goal attempts helping Notre Dame to record a .586 mark from the floor. 
Flowers sparked the Irish in the second half after the Pirates pulled within three at 47-44 with 
In lliini Classic 
T racksters race to four medals 
by Mark Perry Assistant Sports Editor 
Four Notre Dame records were shattered this past week­end, as a small Irish contin~ent competed in the illini Classic at at the University of Illinois in Champaign. 
The Irish runners came home with four medals, including two first place awards. Also, the distance medley relay team qual­ified for the NCAA Indoor Championships. 
"It was an excellent weekend for us,'' Irish coach Joe Piane. ''I was extremely pleased with the results, and I'm happy that we are sending eight guys to the NCAA meet." 
Chuck Aragon, Ken Lynch, Pete Burger, and Tony Hatherly combined to take first place in the distance medley relay, as they qualified for the NCAA meet with a 9:49.7. This was well under the qualifying standard, and alsci bettered the Notre Dame record, set in 1965, 9:49.7. 
Qualifying earlier in the season were the two-mile relay team and Chuck Aragon in the 880-yard run. 
The shuttle hurdle relay team of John McCloughan, Arnie Gough, Dave Bernards, and Tim Twardzik also took home a first place award, winning the evep.t in 
29.3 seconds. Perry Stowe took fourth place in the pole vault, and also bettered his won Notre Dame Indoor record, clearing 15 feet, 73f4 inches. Dennis VanderKraats placed 
third in the three-mile run, ar:d also continued Notre Dame's assault on the Irish record. his own in the two-mile run, as he VanderKraats finished the race finished the race in 8: 51. 8, in 13.44, bettering the record set bettering the performance by Bill 
by teammate Steve Welch last Clark in 1965, 8:54.4. Despite week at the Central Collegiate this record, Welch did not place Conference meet, 13:50. To­in the event. gether VanderKraats and Welch The Irish host their final home have combined to shave over 15 meet of the indoor season this seconds off the old record. Saturday, as they run against 
Welch established a record of Kentucky State at the ACC. 
Martin's antics may backfire 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. 
[APJ -Billy Martin's idea of showing up in the New York Yankees' training cam!? last Thursday to "finalize" his con­tract for 1980 may have backfired on the former Yankees' manager. 
Owner George Steinbrenner, who had agreed to restore Martin to the Yankee dugout following the 1979 season, now has at­tached an important "if' to the ex-manager's return. 
According to the boss, Martin's status now is contingent on the outcome of pending legal action in Reno, Nev., where sports writer Ray Hagar has filed a civil suit against him. The suit followed an altercation between the two last fall when Hagar claims Martin punched him three times. ­
The Nevada suit is not the only atter bothering Yankee brass. The club received three com­plaints this winter that Martin had appeared for a speaking engagement "intoxicated and had used inappropriate language in his talk. At another speaking engagement, ~artin allegedly was in no condition to go on the had to be replaced at the last minute. 
There also was a public argu­ment in a Manhattan restaurant with Arthur Richman, public relations director of the New York Nets. Richman has dismissed the matter but it upset Steinbrenner, who bridles at anything that does not reflect well on the Yankee Image. 
The owner also wasn't exactly thrilled with Martin's appearance in training camp. 
"Nobody can pressure me," said Steinbrenner. "It's just not going to work that way. If his agent (Doug Newton) thinks he can bring him into camp to pressure me, he's wrong because nobody's putting pressure on me. But it doesn't bother me. I guess his ~~ent thought it would work. 
Martin had implied during his visit to the Yankee camp that Steinbrenner was avoiding him. But the Yankee owner srud that he did not want to burden Martin with contract details before the trial. 
"What's the rush?" wondered Steinbrenner. "He's got my word. Do I have his? I live up to my word. He has to live up to his." 
[contt"nued on page 10] 
•' 
17:06 remaining. It was a race to see if the senior co-captain would reach his ·l,OOOth point before being whistled for his fifth foul. With a capacity crowd backing him, the Hunungwoods, Mich. native reached the lofty plateau with five minutes remaining as he canned a free throw to make the score 78-63. Flowers then left his last home game the way he came in four years ago, with an aggressive foul. 
"It seems like I only started yesterday," commented a reflec­
'You don't realize 
what you have 
until the last moment.' 
tive Flowers. ''It went so fast and it still hits me hard. I've been thinking about this all day. You don't realize what you have until the last moment. I'm sad that I took it for granted last year, but the four years have been great.'' 
Notre Dame outrebounded their guests 32-23 in the second half and took better shots as the Irish zone forced East ·Carolina into long range shooting. 
''The key to this game was the rebounding," said Pirate coach 
[conttnued on page 10] 
.-------l' NOTRE DAME 89, EAST CAROLINA 72 IL------....., 
East Carolina [72]-Krusen 5 o-o 10, Hanzlik 5 o-o 10, Branning 4 2-3 10. Hobson 3 5-6 11, Cornelius 2 o-o 4, Mitchell1 o-o 2, Wilcox 22-2 6, Flowers 6 Maynor 81-217, Mack 10 o-o 20. Niles 2 2-4 14, Healy 0 2-2 2, Hawkins 0 o-o 0, 2-2 6, McLaurin 0 0-0 0, Underwood 1 2-2 Kelly 0 0-0 0. Totals 35 19-27 89. 
4. Powers 0 0-0 0. Totals 311D-12 72. Halftime-Notre Dame 45, E. Carolina 36. 
Fouled out-Underwood, Flowers. Total Notre Dame [89]--Jackson 5 5-5 15, fouls-E. Carolina 22, Notre Dame 16. Woolridge 6 1-2 13. Laimbeer 6 5-8 17, A-11 ,345. 
Auerbachpraises Larry Bird,· hopes to sign him in june 
BOSTON [AP] -Indiana State All-American Larry Bird brings back memories to Red Auerbach, the architect of 13 National Basketball Association titles with the Boston Celtics. 
"He's a big Cousy," Auerbach said Monday in an interview, comparing the 6-9 Bird with former Celtics great Bob Cousy, a guard noted for ~-s quick ha~ds and peripheral vision along With his scoring. 
"I never thoush I'd ever com­pare anyone With Cousy, but Larry Bird has those great hands and great vision,'' Auerbach said. 
Like most national television viewers, Auerbach, the former Celtics' coach now at the helm as president and general manager, was somewhat in awe watching Bird Sunday afternoon. 
Bird picked by Auerbach as the Celtics No. 1 draft choice last June although only a junior, scored 49 points and grabbed 19 rebounds as Indiana State completed a perfect regular season with a 109-84 victory over Wichita State. 
'·~then he gets anywhere near the ball, it belongs to him,'' Auerbach said. ''Everyone in the country knows he can shoot. Other things impress me more. '' 
"He has a great concept of the game, a great feel of what's going on between the four lines. He's got patience, he's stong and 
-' ­
Co-captain and co-MVP for the Irish against the Pirates, Bruce Flowers hit his 1OOOth college caree1· point in a free throw attempt amid avid. cheers in his favor from the crowd. [Photo by john Macor] 
he's unselfish. And those hands and vision.'' 
"Cousy was more spectacular, but that kid can do it all. He can shoot from anywhere on the court. But if he doesn't have the shot, he won't take it. He'll pass to someone open. And how he can pass. He spots the man and gives it to him. He's always anticipating on the floor." 
Auerbach complimented former Marquette Coach AI McGuire for his television com­mentary on Bird against Wichita State. 
''AI McGuire knows his basketball and I agreed with him all the way with what he said," Auerbach said. ''He told every­thing as it was without being gushy. It would be very easy to become gushy with the spectacu­lar game Bird had, but AI didn't. He was looking at things other than scoring, the srune as I was.'' 
So just where do the Celtics stand with Bird? 
"He does everything and we'd love to have him,'' Auerbach said. ''He could step into the starting lineup with any team in our league, but we want him. We've tried to be very low key with him while he fmishes his college career. 
"I've seen him play and talked to him just once. However, I'm going out to see him in the playoffs. Then, after the season, he'll get an agent and we'll sit down and talk.'' 
..,.:_~ '<..,_ ·..-r 






