• • Madrigal Magic -page 6
• 

VOL. XIV,_ N9. 57 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1979 
In 16 minute session 
Security Council fails to decide 
UNITED NATIONS (AP)­situation. Shemirani, formally asked the The U.N. Security Council met The council president, 15-member council to postpone for only 16 minutes yesterday Ambassador Sergio Palacios de its meeting until Saturday even­on the U.S.-Iranian cnsis, hear­Vizzio of Bolivia, repeated an ing when, he said, Bani Sadr 
ing pleas from Secretary-Gen­appeal to Iran he had made in would be present.eral Kurt W aldheim and the the council's behalf Nov. 9, Shemirani said a ·Security
council president, and then 

askins for the release of 49 Council session on the volatileadjourned until Saturday. Amencan hostages held in the embassy confrontation would
In one of the shortest formal 

U.S. Embassy in Tehran. not be "opportune and produc­council meetings on record, Palacios de Vizzio then tive" untif after the MoslemWaldheim called on the United adjourned the meeting until 9 holy days of mourning this ... 
States and Iran ''to avoid any 
p.m. EST Saturday, when Thursday and Friday.
action which could inflame'' the Iran's acting Foreign Minister Iranian leader AyatollahAbolhassan Bani Sadr is ex­
Ruhollah Khomeini; in a 
pected to be in New York to join Tehran radio broadcast yester­m the resumed debate. 
day, dePounced U.S. pressure Iran had sought a week's to have the council deal only delay, while the United States with the issue of the embassy

to submit had pressed for a public meet­hostages, seized by Islamic ing to call again for the release student militants Nov. 4, and of the hostages. Yesterday's not with the alleged crimef' of session was a compromise, with the ousted Shah Mohamn,ad · 
Board 
only Waldheim and the presi­-Reza Pahlavi. dent permitted to speak.

proposal 
''There is talk these days that It also meant a postponement the Security Council will meet
by Pam Degnan 
of any decisive action until the to investigate the issue of the
Senior StaffReporter 
weekend. hostages, whose spying activi­The United States . dropped ties have been proved by our
Demanding the adoption of 
its insistence on speaking yes­people,'' Khomeini said.
stronger security measures, the terday , U.S. Ambassador

Saint Mary's Board of Govern­''After political and military 
ance unanimously approved Donald F. McHenry saying the Carter con­
a maneuvers, has
American speech would "be

rape prevention proposal last tended that the Council should
incorporated in the (council)

night. The objective of the only convene to deal with this
president's statement." Saeed

proposal is to alleviate the matter.''
Sanjabi, an Iranian specialoccurence of raJ.>e -on both 

campuses accordmg to Adri envoy, said of the U.S. deci­He rejected in advance any 
sion, "We consider that a very Council decision ''dictated'' by~rigiani, Development commis­positive sign.'' the United States.
stoner. 

The Board, reflecting student Earlier yesterday, Iran's The shah must be investigat­opinion, plans co submit the chief U.N. diplomat, Jamal ed only in Iran, he said. proposal to the ND-SMC Rape Awareness Committee which is headed by Susan Tamborini, Militants claim responsibility
director of Holy Cross Hall; Notre Dame Dean of Students James Roemer; and Kate Kearney, director of Farley 



U.S.,Iran react to Islamic bomb threat 
Hall. It will also be submitted to the Saint Mary's administra­TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -Islamic The militants said they were Paratroopers were seen at ta~k force h~aded by the USS tion for approval. . militants said yesterday they especially concerned about pro­Tehran's Mehrabad Airport fly­Mtdway has been in the 
The proposal outlines the have rigged the U.S. Embassy vocations Thursday and Friday, ing off in U.S.-made transports Arabian Sea south of Iran for following security measures. A to blow up-on command, and the emotional Moslem holy to an unknown destination. almost rwo weeks. Another glass security hut would be the Iranian armed forces went days of Tasua and Ashura, Leal newspapers said the 
si~-ship force, led by the carrie; 

constructed at the entranc gate on alert as Tehran seethed with when devout Moslems here Iranian navy "started defensive Kttty Hawk, has sailed into the south of the campus and would rumors of an impending U.S. whip or cut themselves to operations" in the Persian Indian Ocean. be manned by an armed secur­attack and warnings that Amer­signify their willingness to Gulf, and the airspace over In other developments: 
ity guard equiJ.>ped with radio ican agents were plotting to become martyrs. Qum, Khomeini's headquarters --Sen. BennettJohnston, D-La., equtpment. Thts would monitor infiltrate the embassy. The militants had hinted city 120 miles south of Tehran, after a break(ast meeting be­cars entering the campus from The U.N. Security Council previously they were rigging had been closed .. rween President Carter and Route 31. gathered in New York to dis­explosives to kill all the hos­The Carter administration members of Congress, said 
An emergency phone system cuss the Iran crisis. But tages if the United States indicated last week it might there were certain things Carter would be constructed on the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, launched a military action to respond militarily if any of the 
[continued on page 2]

back road at Notre Dame as convinced the United States rescue them. hostages are harmed. A carrier well as at locations around the 
had the council on its isde, Notre Dame campus. Lighting rejected in advance any deci­sion it might make as "dic­
is also a major problem on both 
tated" by Washington. .
campuses. Due to the increas­

Roemer confirms inaccuracy
The Iranian leader also raised ed number of night classes, 
Madaleva has been a building anew the prospect that the 49 American hostages who have

used extensively during the late by Mike Shields Roeme~ decided to retract the map for further
been held for 25 days will be one
night hours. The proposal News Editor venficatton after The Observer verified 
put on trial as 'spies."

suggests that the lighting situa­of sevt>ral reported inaccuracies in the map.tion be analyzed and corrected. At New York Hospital, exiled Dean of Students James Roemer has con­''Further research revealed that we did not 
The Board also supports the Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlaci firmed the existence of a rape incident im lude ·in the summary of rapes one that following suggestions which in­underwent an operation in that was not included in a summary of occurred near Washington Hall in the fall clude an escort service berween which doctors removed a gall­rapes released by his office and the Security of 1974" Roemer said. the campus, an update map of stone from his bile duct. · department earlier this month. The t;leventh occurred over Thanksgivingtrouble spots that would be A hospital spokeswoman said break to i 974 The assailant was nor a
Roemer requested that a map locating rapes
made available to students, and the shah would remain under student, Roemer added. 
on campus drawn after
a standard foot patrol and car observation for a few days. But be up rwo women "Ir happened before I was Dean of Students," 
were raped over mid-semester break. The
patrol that would be situated on it was believed the deposed he said, "and I was unaware of it until
map released indicated ten rapes in the last
the back road at Notre Dame. monarch would probably be we dug into the files.'' 
11 years.
Also suggested by the Board able to return to his exile home Roemer compiled the map as pan of an overall was the presence of a female in Mexico after that. Four of the rapes shown on the map occurred plan for increasing rape awareness and preven­security officer on campus. The militants issued a state­on Saint Mary's Road berween Holy Cross tion by students. He is meeting with "We feel that a woman could ment yesterday saying thLy had Hall and Rte. 31. The other six rapes repr~sentatives from both Notre Dame and be an extremely important planted mines throughout the listed occurred behind Walsh Hall, in Stanford Saint Mary's to dtscuss the situation, and has asset in dealing with women's embassy compound and their Hall, in the D1 parking lot, near the WNDU coordinated q. joint committee comprised of re­crimes,'' commented Martha supporters should not try to tower, at the O'Hara-Grace townhouses, and presentatives from both schools to study Boyle, Judicial Commissioner. enter the area. behind the ACC near Cartier Field. the problem. 
--~-•--·-----------~~~~-----------------....._---~-----------------~----------­


News in brief 
U.S. Steel announces widespread plant shtJtdowns 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -U.S. Steel C<?rp. announced yesterday widespread shutdowns m steel and cement operations affecting 13.000 worke;rs, and ~lamed the move on government indifference to the ~ndu~try s problems. . The closings will attect 16 plants tn eight st~tes. While a timetable was not announced, U.S. Steel sa1d a number of t~e plants will operate ~ell i~to 1980. to fill cu~toJ?er commitments. The operations bemg termu~ated at this nme have become noncompetitiv.e for. a ~·anety of reaso~1s, including operating co~t, unfa1rl~ pnced u~porrs. or excessive environmental. spend1.ng reqUirements, sa1d company Chairman Davtd Rodenck. 

UA W signs pact to close Chrysler negotiations 
HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. (AP) -The United Auto . Workers union yesterday: signed a precendent-settmg contract with Chrysler Corp., s~ying the pact coul?, not be reopened unless "the very survival of the company was at stake. "The only way we could open up (the cont~ac~~ legally would be with the consent of our membership, UA W President Douglas A. Fraser. Fraser's. declaratio~ came amid calls from Congress for further unum co.ncesswns to keep the nations third-largest carmakerfinanoally afloat. The Union estimated the contract wtll cost Chrysler workers $200 million in wages alone and $403 million in total COilCeSSIOnS. 

New Englanders support repeal of Bill of Rights 
VASSALBORO. Maine (AP) -Students in ahigh school civics class rook to 1he streets with petitions urgm.g r<:peal of. taw-; they said coddle criminals a.ncl. foun~-to thetr dtsmay ­plenty of supporters. A maJOtlt}' of the adults they approached readily p~nned the document •. most .appare.~tly not n·ali1ing ir callecl tor the repeal of the ~til of Rtghts;, :\~ a history teacher. the whole thmg ktnd .ot sca;,es me, sat bill Forstchen. who concetved the proJect. Ir. all st~n~~ when 1was trying to think .of~ way to re!lch the Bt,l,l of R1.g~ts so the kids will remember 11 stx months_ from no~. Del~ttn~ tlw title but retaining the text of the Btll of Rtghts word-f(Jr·word, the petitions urged that a propos~( to rlheal the t'ntirc document be placecl on the 1980 electton ba ot: The studt•nts found that 74 percent of the p~ople 1n Waterville who took the time to hear the students request signed their names. 

Weather 
Snow flurries, windy and cold with daytime te~peratures in th<' 30s. Snow flurries and cold ton1ght. Low tontght 111 the mid 2!h. High tomorrow in the upper 20s 
-~-----t

CatllP-us
~-· _
r:====-----==---------------"1
"' , 
12:1 "S p.m. SEMINAR•. "m~!laging. conta~inant concentr~­tions 111 lab animal d1ets, dr. JOseph J· knapka, nat I institutes of health, GALVIN AUD., sponsored by the dept. of microbiology. 
4·20 p m. COLLOQUIUM, "nuclear physics with lasers," d~. g .. w. greenless, u. of minn. liR NIEUWLAND SCI HALL, spons: physics dept. 
6:30p.m. MEETING, sailing club, 204 S'SHAG. 
7 p.m. MEETING, philadelphia club, sign-ups for all those interested in round-trip bus nde home for chnstmas, LEWIS HALL 
7 p m .WORKSHOP, "choose your ptajor workshop," profs. ~0 speak about the various majors pffered by t~e n.d. colleges, all interested members of the a.d. communtty are invited to attend, HOWARD HALL. 
7 & 10 p.m. MOVIE "west side story," K OF C HALL, 
admission S1, members free. 
8 p.m. LECTIJRE, "political discom:se and truty: arendt and habermas,'' prof. richard bernstGJ.n, .ha~erfor~ colle~, HAYES-HEALY AUD. dept. of gov. and mt I stl,ldtes. 
8:15p.m_.. RECIT~, adrian bryttan, violin, UBRARY AUD. 
spons: dept of mustc. 
Wednesday, November 28, 1979-page 2 

Rabbi heads cult in Guyana 
EDITOR'S NOTE -In a nation strll hospitable to cult~, despite the abuses revealed la;t year in the aftermath of toe Peoples Temple horror, a b/a,7k Amen'can fugitive has eme:g,~d as apowerful leader. But tn .m interbiew with AP Wnter Lew Wheaton, Rabbi Edward E1'Z­manuel Washington was em­phatic about the differences I that separate him from the Rev. jim jones. 
by Lew Wheaton Associated Press Wn'ter 
GEORGETOWN Guyana (AP) -A black self-styled rabbi urging his people to prepare for a ractal Armageddon has be­come Guyana's most powerful cult leader since the Peoples Temple tragedy last year. 
Rabbi Edward Emmanuel Washington -a. 50_-ye.ar-old fugitive born Dav1d Hill m the United States -is called "mas­ter," "king," even "god" by his followers in the House of Israel. 
Washington says his mo_ve­ment is the fastest-growmg group in a nation where cults 
• • . Threat 
[continued from page 1) 
will not do, such as surrender the shah, to save the hostages. "The president made\ it clear that the honor (of the country) comes before the lives of the hostages," he said. · --The National Front, a group­ing of moderate-liberal Iranian political parties. issued a state­ment saying aproval of Khomeini's Islamic constitution "will quite ptobably lead. to anarchy" in Iran. The constitu­tion is expected to be over­whelmingly approved in a refer­endum next Sunday. 
The Observer 
Night Editor: Ann Monaghan Asst. Night Editor: Danny Tarullo Copy Editor: Maribeth Moran Layout Staff Eddie Holden 
News Editor: Mike Shidds
Fea.fures Layout: K. 
Connelly
Sports Layo~ft: John (Doughnut) Sm1th Sports Copy Editor: Mike Olenik Typists: Nancy "Moses" Malone, Tina Terlaak, Pauler Shea, Kathy Murray, Kati Begane . EMT: Kim Convey Proofreader: John Chaussee 
ND Day Editor: Patsy Campbell SMC Day Editor: Kathy Domanico Ad Design: Matt DeSalvo, Anne Christine Massullo Photographer: John Macor Guest Appearances: Rosemary, Doug, Paul Barry 
Tile Observer [USPS -1211] Is 
published MomS.y through F=­
cept during ex1m lnd vllCitilft . 
The Observer 11 publlallld by tfll 
students of Notre 011111 IIIII Sllnt 
Miry's Celllge. Sublcrtptillla nr Ill 
purdlned tor $211 per ye~r 1111 111r 
1111111terl from The Observer. f'.O. 1111 
4. NetR b•~n~.llldillll 4151ii. s-et elm ~~ pilei, N8trl o..... 111­
dillll . 
The Observer Is 1 llllllllllr If till 
Aalciltld Pl'la. All , • ...._ 
rilllib 11'1 l'lltMd. 
are common. He claims more 
than 6,000 members in 38 
temples throughout Guyana, 
with branches in Kingston, 
Jamaica, and Des . Moines, 
Iowa. 
Washington preaches a mix­
ture of self-help, anti-white 
doctrine and a theology that 
maintains Jesus and the origin­
al40 tribes of Israel were black. 
He says the Ho1:1se o~ Israel, 
which has no ttes wtth any 
traditional Jewish group, has 
three immediate aims: 
-To produce more food and jobs for its members and to advance their education and their love and respect for others. 
-To move "whith all deliber 
ate speed" toward the destruc­
tion of white theology. 
-To "spread to other coun­
tries and awaken our people for 
the battle of Armageddon.'' 
"I foresee a clash soon 
between white theology and our 
theology " the short, round­
faced pr~acher said. "It will 
not be confined to Guyana and 
will be a real battle. The war of 
words is just about finished." 
Washington acknowledges that some aspects of his move­ment resemble the communal requirements imposed by Peo­ples Temple leader Jim Jones. 
House of Israel members must "submit to grour com­munal working and llvi~g," Washington sa1d. "There IS no room for the individual." 
They must work in group-run activities that include Guyana's largest plantain chip busine~s and a communal farm, or 111 approved outside work from which they surrender part of 

Life group to hold bake sale 
The ND-SMC Right to Life and Students Concerned for Cambodia will co-sponsor a bake sale from 10:00 a.m. until 
lll :00 p.m. in the lobby of LaFortune today. All profits from the sale will be donated to the Cambodian relief effort. 
Insty 
their salary, he said. 
Members are required to study Hebrew, Swahili, Ma~ and Lenin, he added, and their dates and marriages must be approved by the group. 
But Washington takes pains to separate himself from Jones and the Peoples Temple. Jones and more than 900 followers died last Nov. 18 in a mass murder-suicide following the slayings of U.S. Rep. Leo Ryan and four other persons on a jungle airstrip. 
"He was white, and I'm black," Washington said. "He was a Christian minister, and I'm a Jewish rabbi. He had more than 900 people and only one was Guyanese; I'm the only American in the House of Israel." 
He said the House of Israel forbids suicide and will not bury people who kill themselves. 
Washington called the Christian church "the black man's worst enemy" and said he felt all churches were a­gainst the House of Israel. 
Washington said he arrived in Guyana in early 1972 after jumping bail in Cleveland, O­hio, the year before . 
Cleveland court records show that David Hill was convicted in 1970 of blackmailing four east­side McDonald's restaurants, following a 1969 Hill-organized boycott of the eateries. 
[continued on page 3] 
illiiCE} 
(Lj)]J:JEL:m~JE 
100 Center Shoppin Complex 
ph . 255-8661 
Party Trays 
Bargain Prices 
and 10% off with 
Student ID 
need print~ ina hurry? 

~,Prints 
100 -11 x 17 posters only $10.00 203 N. Main South Bend 289-6977 the/ wiz of theprinting biz! 
Social Justice Education Committee Meeting Thursday, Nov. 29 
12:15 p.m. Rm. 249 Madaleva (SMC) 
All Are Invited 
The Observer 
Miller discourages KulVaiti oil cutback 
KUWAIT (AP) -An official of Monday' his country will the Kuwaiti government siad maintain maximum proauction, yesterday that Treasury Secre-although a slight cut-back is tary G. William Miller may necessary for technical reasons. have a difficult time persuading Saudi Arabian officials earlier his government to keep up its had declined to commit them­oil production. • selves to continuing to produce 

. ''Dungeons and Dragons'' are on the minds ofmany students engaged in playing this 
mcreasmgiJ popular game. [photo by john Macor] 
Higher fuel costs 
Carter comes to aid of American poor 
The official, who did not want to be identified, said oil produc­.tion is 'decided by market considerations.'' 
''The marker has a logic of its own," he ~aid. "If we fail to appreciate ir, we will be just giving away handouts.'' 
Kuwaiti officials have an­nounced their intention to cut back on the country's oil pro­duction, now about 2.2 million barrels a day. However, they. have not said when the cutback would occur, or how much is planned. 
Estimates of the amount of a possible cutback range from 200,000 barrels a day to 500,000 , although diplomatic sources say the lesser figure is the most likely. 
Miller arrived in Kuwait yes­terday on the third and final stop of a tour of Middle East oil nations, aimed at encouraging Saudi Arabia, Abu Dhabi and Kuwait to maintain current high levels of oil production. He al~o has been urging price restramr. 
The oil minister of Abu Dhabi, which produces about 1.4 mil­lion barrels a day, told Miller on 
(continued from page 2] 
He was sentenced to 4-to-20 years in prison, but on Nov. 17, 1971, while free on an appeals bond and while standing trial on a larceny charge, he fled the country. 
U.S. law enforcement offi­cials say Washington has an arrest record dating from the 1940s. There is no extradition treaty berween Guyana and the United States, and U.S. Em­k>assy officials here say no attempt has been made to extradite him. 
Members of the oppostion Progressive Party say that . House of Israel "goons" were responsible for violence at an 
•anti-government rally "this summer in which a Roman C~tholic priest was killed. 
W ashingtol.l denied that his followers had been involved in political violence. But he proudly acknowledged that he supplied 300 workers a day in 1977 to\break a stride by cane at their current level of 9. 5 million barrels a day. But officials traveling with Miller were hopeful they would decide to do this. 
Before leaving Abu Dhabi yesterday, Miller said state­ments by Oil Minister Mani AI-Otaiba, in favor of high production and price restraint, are "a contribution toward more orderly markets and pricing.'' 
AI-Otaiba is also the outgoing chairman of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries which will meet on Dec. 17 in Caracas to decide on price increases for next year. AI­Otaiba said he thinks a slight increase is likely, but not the major increase that Miller is worried about. 
In each country he has visited, Miller has used the same argument that high production levels are necessary to offset the slowdown in Iranian oil production. If other nations cut back significantly, he argued, oil prices would soar again and could push the world into a major recession. 
• • • Rabbi 
cutters. '­
Accord~g to \X'ashington, the Progr~sive Psrty is cam­paigning against him. Wash­mgton clain~fd he was shot at four times i~ the past month and his downt&wn headquarters was bombed. 
Police said damage from the bombing was lrifnor and they knew of no attempts on his life. 
Howard to host workshop 
A "Choose Your Major" workshop will be held tonight at 
7:00 p.m. in Howard Hall. Representatives from all the colleges will be present. All interested members of the Notre Dame Community are invited tu participate. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Pres­ident Carter promised yester­day to seed $1.3 5 billion into the hands of million of poor Americans to hel{> them pay higher fuel bills th1s winter. 
Benefits and eligibility will vary widely from state to state, but are expected to average roughly $200 for each of an estimated 7 million or more eligible families . 
''We will expedite the distri­bution of these funds," Carter said at the White House as he signed the new program into law. 
HEW Secretary Patricia Roberts Harris predicted that some states would be distribut­ing their share of the money under the new program next month, and said the federal government will main its share of the money Jan. 7. 
Those eligible for the aid include those receiving federal assistance for the blind, aged and disabled. State plans yet to be formulated will determine who else is eligible; most plans are expected to be based on who received welfare 
Religious leaders seek reunification of Christianity 
ISTANBUL, Tmkey (AP) -doctrinal experts. 
The meeting between Pope Among the chief subjects of John Paul II and Ecumenical the discussion will be the Patriarch: Demetrius I in pope's authority in the church 
Istanbul this week will open a and the permanence of marr­doctrinal dialogue seeking to iage bonds. clear the way for reunification The pope claims "primacy of of Christianity's two largest ~overnment'' over all Christ-branches -Roman Catholicism 1ans while the Eastern and Eastern Orthodoxy -after Orthodox churches operate as assistance. 
Colder, Northern states re­ceive the bulk of the money but: even balmy Hawaii and Florida will get at least a little. Among those receiving the highest benefits are Iowa and New Hampshire, where Caner faces two early contests in his >oon­to-be-announced campaign for re-election. 
Checks for $400 million will be mailed by the federal gov­ernment Jan. 7 to about 4 million recipients of Supple­mental Security Income, which is federal welfare for aged, blind and disabled persons. 
Under this portion of the : progrma, benefits will range from $34 per person in Hawaii to $250 per person in Iowa, New Hampshire, North and South Dakota, Alaska, Connecticut, 
. Idaho, Minnes<?ta, Monta~a, 
Utah and ~yommg. No family may receiVe more than $250, even when two or more persons get SSI payments. 
About $800 million will be parceled out to state governors under plans which they must submit to the federal govern­ment for approval. 
Most are expected simply to distribute the funds to welfare recipients, those getting Aid to Families with Dependent Children. However, governors may opt for more exotic plans includmg payments directly to fuel suppliers or payments to food stamp recipients as well as those getting AFDC. 
nearly nine centuries of schism. 
The decision Friday between the two leaders of nearly a billion Christians will be bnef. But Metropolitan Bartholomew of the Eastern Orthodox Synod said it would be the prelude to periodic meetings, beginning next year, of a joint Roman Catholic-Orthodox committee of "sister churches" and concede ' to the patriarch in Istanbul only a "primacy of honor." And the Roman church refuses to recog­nize divorce while the Orthodox churches do. 
The pope arrives in Turkey today for a three.-cday visit to 
(continued on page 4] 

&RlWVAJL GZ4llilt8:.&8 •oo• ~ 
7 
=--==-..:::.._ --=.-=.=_ =-== =.-=. ..=_:. =--=
RG=w-~, D---!P!i,G=&-1Rll88
. 

--------. ·----···---·· ~ _____Jo, __ ----------­
The Observer Wednesday, November 28, 1979-page 4 


Dismissal 
for headaches ... there was evi­says, he's been treated for a dence that I had sustained and potentially fatal liver disorder, been medically and surgically that he'd had eye surgery and treated for one or more epi­that "I have a blood infection or sodes of apparent cardiac parasite normally found only in arrest." birds, the name of which I and 
The records also show, he my counsel do not know." 
• • • Leaders 
[continued from page 9] 
. If his contact had betrayed htm, Garwood said, ''I'm cer­tain I would have been killed." Two days before his release, charges were filed against him. He returned on March 22 and went to his home in Adams, lnd. 
Without his consent, he say~. the Marines extended his en­listment. And Garwood said. ''I have absolutely no doubt that the charges are the pro­duns of enormous personal hostility." 
He said irresponsible public altacks led to substantial hostil­uy. 
Garwood says his medical records indicated he suffers from malaria and tuberculosis and that he is carrying bomb fragments in his body. 
"In addition," he says, "the doctors learned that I had received 'electric' treatments 
Peruvian seamen file suit for wages of over one year 
HOUSTON (AP) -A group uf diction over what goes on 
Peruvian seamen left their . aboard the ship," he said. 'He 
homes on a flight to Holland, can say, 'I am master of this 
hired as crewmen on a ship ship, and you're not leaving, no 
heading from Rotterdam matter how bad things are, no 
straight home to Peru, a one­matter how badly you've been 
month trip, at most. beaten, no matter how much 
More than a year later, money you're not getting from 
Oscar Delgado and his ship­your contract. You will obey 
mates found themselves stuck me.''' 
in the port of Houston, trapped If the sailor jumps ship, 
by the captain's legal troubles Strange said, he finds himself 
after an odyssey that included in trouble with U.S. authorities. 
most of the world's major ports. The Rev. Rivers Patout, head 
''I was engaged to be married of the seamen's center, said 
before I left, and I told my few laws protect the rights of 
fiancee I would be gone no sailors, and those few can be 
more than two months, just to circumvented bv unscrupulous 
be safe," Delgado, 29, said captains and ship owners. 
through an interpreter. ''One law guaratees salary 
Knowing their only alterna­payment to any sailor who has 
tive would be to quit their jobs been discharged,'' Patout said. 
and try to reach their distant ''But the ship owners gtt 
homes with little or no money, around that be including in 
Delgado and seven fellow crew contracts that the sailor can be 
members filed suit for their discharged without pay if he is 
wages 10 U.S. District Court at fault. The-n he has to pay his 
here. own expenses and passage back 
Similar cases are finding home. 
their way into American courts ''And the captain can easily 
more frequently as foreign "ai­make it look that way, call the 
lors look to the courts as the sailor a troublemaker and 
only place they can get help dismiss him. The sailor has 
against tyrannical captains, un­very few rights in which to 
scrupulous owners and sub­refute the captain," Patour 
standard work conditions. said. 
''Contracts in countries that"We had signed agreements to have strong unions, includingmake this trip, but the captain the United States and most ofsaid there was no time to make Europe, protect the sailors fair­out the contracts before we left, ly well," he said. "Thirdso he had us sign blank ones,'' World countries, on the otherDelgado said. ''Then he filled ~and, offer very little protec­them in to say we agreed to 
tion.
travel all over the world and we ''The most insidious are the
hadn't." 
multinational ships sailingFor most of the seven months under a flag of convenience,the crew was trapped in Hous­such as Liberia or Panama,'' heton, with the sh1p impounded, continued.
they received no pay. When ''Sailors are enticed aboardthey did it was a meager $60 a with promises of higher salaries month. 
than they would get at home,When they went to court for and they are told they will betheir money, they were imme­treated well, but they are givendiately threatened with repri­
sals by the captain, including no contractual guarantee,'' 
Patout said. 
the possibility of being jailed "If the master is responsible, when they returned home. 
the ship may be good, but if the"Because they filed suit, the master the is
Peruvians are finished as Sl·a­is bad, sailor 
really in trouble."
men," said Richard Schechter, 
The problems are com­
the attorney who represented pounded by difficulties thethe sailors. 
seamen face when they pull into ''They will be blackballed by U.S. pons, where they are easythe shipowners. They may prey for thieves, prostitutes and suffer serious repercussions on pickpockets.
the way home, and when they District Attorney ] ohnnyget there, t~ey could be tried Holmes says the major hin­for sabotagmg the Peruv1an drance to law enforcemem iseconomy or treason." 
the inability to keep a seaman"A Greek sailor named Con­in port long enough to testify in stantin Papadopolous was sent court.
to prison for six months to a ''Whenever we allege a cri­year in Greece for filing a wage minal act, we have to prove it,"claim in the United States,'' Holmes said. "But ~~.en w.e goSchechter said. 
ro court, our star witness ts 10The Peruvians dropped their Singapore of Shanghai.
suit after they were paid in ''I'm convinced there are
early October, and the ship departed soon after for parts people who prey on the sailors 
for JUSt that reason," he s;; id.
unknown. 
The seamen had been sup­ported h:. a group of ministers at the Houston International 
College Bowl Seamen's Ce-nter. The chun.. h­men express indignation that so little is done to treat the 
captains
recurring problem. "It's unbelievable that on American soil or 0:1 America's 
to meet 
doorstep, things go on that There will be a meeting forharken back to the qays of the College-Bowl ream captainsslavery and piracy,·' said the at Caron
Rev. Roy Strange. at 7 p.m. Court, 
LaFortune.
"The captain has total juris­
[continued from page 3] 
Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir and Ephesus. He will meet with Patriarch Demetrius for prayers tomorrow night and :again; Friday morning at the patri­archate to take part in a service honoring the Apostle Andrew, the patron saint of the Church of Constantinople, as Istanbul 
was called before 1930. St. Andrew is believed to have been the first to preach the Christian Gospel in the city. 
Following the religious ser­vice, the pope and the patriarch will sit down together in the patriarch's office for their talk. Bartholomew said with them would be Dutch Cardinal Johannes Willebrands and ·Metropolitan Meliron of Chalcedon, their chnrches' 
leading experts in the field of 
Christian unity. 
The metropolitan said all the Orthodox churches, including the Russian and Bulgarian, fully support the unity move­ment. The Russians and the Bulgarians were rumored to have been reluctant to beginn­ing a the-ological :ii'afogue at this nme. 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers
The news is reported as accurately and 
-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Edrtor-rn-chze( ....... .Rosemary Mills 5'ports Editor... ........... Mark Perry represe!lt the opin10n of a majority of Managing Editor....... ... Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen ConnellyBox Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Edttonal Board. Commentaries,, Editonal Editor.. ............ Ann Gales Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor........ .M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executrve News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ....... .Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community News Editor .............. ...... Mark Rust Production Manager ..... John McGrath of the University of Notre Dame du lac and . the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertismg Manager ........ .tlob Kudy and Sainr Mary's College. It does not optmons on campus, through fetters, is SMC Executive Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Controller................. .Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor ....... .Margie Brassil Ctradation· Manager .. : .. :Greg Hedges· 
.----------
Thfl Observer Wednesday, November 28, 1979-page 5 
--~----~------~--------------~--~-----...-----~-------­


by Maribeth Moran StaffReporter 
In a meeting that lasted less than an hour last night the Hall Presidents Council heard a petition from Ed Bylian of the College Bowl Committee for allocation of funds; distri­buted alcohol survevs, and discussed plans for alumni vis­itation on campus next semes­ter. 
Bvlian <iS~( :J the HPC for an·allo'c~uon amounting to ap­proxim.ltely $10 to $20 from each hall to supplement the $100 that the committee re­ceived from the Board of Com­missioners. Bylian noted that more teams had signed up than expected, thus causing the need for more packets of ques­tions to be purchased for com­petition. 
Sixteen teams are now com­peting, andll out of 22 of the dorms are represented, he said. 
Questionaires for the alcohol survey that the HPC is coor­dinating for Student Govern­ment and Psych Services were passed out and the presidents were asked to encourage re­sponse from their halls. 
Philly Oub to sponsor Christmas bus 
The Philadelphia Club is sponsoring a round-trip bus to Philadelphia at Christmas. Anyone tnt..:rested may sign up in Lewis Hall tonight at 7 p.m. 
Representatives from the A­lumni Board will be visiting the campus next semester on January 17 in Walsh and Flanner Halls. "They hope to make students more aware of what the Alumni Board can do for them while they are still here, for example help­ing them find summer jobs.'' satd HPC President Ellen Dor­ney. 
The HPC is also encouraging donations for the clothing drive for the Southeast Asian refu­gee>. 
Delegates to select chairmen 
The Notre Dame Mock Convention Delegates Commit­tee will hold a meeting for all students interested in being a state delegation chairman for the convention tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. 
A state delegation chairman will be chosen from each state and one for each U.S. territory. Students may only sign up to be chairman of their home state. In the event of more than one student signing up for a parti­cular chairmanshtp, the Dele­gates Committee will select the chairman. 
-A chairman must enlist other students to be his state dele­gates and must caucus with them in order to plan strategy for the convention. Fot more information contact ] ohn Dillane at 3 3 70 or Bill Kresse at 8777. 
Worst inflation since 1946 
Consumer prices rise in October 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The sharpest rise in housing costs in three decades pushed con­sumer prices up another 1 percent in October, all but guaranteeing the -worst mfla­tion rate for a single year since 1946, the government said yes­terday. 
Rapidly rising prices for energy slowed significantly during the month and food price increases showed a modest slowdown. But mod­eration in those areas was offset by a 1. 5 percent jump in housing prices -the steepest monthly increase since 1.947, the Labor Department said. 
So far in 1979, consumer prices have risen 11 perc~nt, and government economists predicted infla~ion was certain to top 13 percent for the year, the highest rate since war-time wage and price controls were lifted in 1946. 
''You can say with cer­tainty... that the inflation rate will be about 13.5 percent or higher for the year," said Theodore Torda, a senior econ­omist at the Commerce Depart­ment. 
Torda and R. Robert Russell, director of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, said the~ see no signs that inflation will slow in the coming months. In fact, the rate could accelerate when new consumer price fig­ures are reported next month, they said. 
The sharp jump in interest rates triggered by the Federal Reserve Board in October will 
not be reflected in the govern­ment's price survey for another month, the economists said. 
Banas rises 
to religious 
leader role 
Fr. Leonard Banas C. S.C., assistant professor of modern and classical languages at the University of Notre Dame, has been appointed religious super­ior of the Holy Cross priests and brothers attached to the Univer­sity. 
Banas, a native of Chicago, entered Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame in 1944. He was ~raduated from the University 10 1949 and received a licentiate in theology at the Gregorian Univer-;ity in Rome, Italy. 
Music Dept. 
to present recital 
Violinist Adrian Bryttan, of the Notre Dame Music Depart­ment, will present a recital tonight at 8:15 p.m. in the library auditorium. William Cerny, pianist and chairman of the music department will also· be featured. The recital is open to the publil;: without charge. 
"If housing increases were high in October, the November increase will be whopping,'' said Torda. Russell said the higher interest rate's would show up next month ''with vengeance.'' 
The high inflation rate has eaten into workers' wages, and the Labor Department said the purchasing power ofan average paycheck fell another 1.1 per­cent in October. During the prior 12 months an average worker's purchasing power fell an average 5.1 percent as wages failed by a long shot to keep pace with rising prices. 
In a separate report, the Labor Department said the average price across the country for gasoline topped $1 a gallon for the first time in October, as prices rose eight-.· 
tenths of a cent on the average 
since September. 

The seasonally adjusted in­crc:;ase in consumer prices d•n­ing October marked the lOth straight month that the gov­ernment's index has recorded a rise of .ebout 1 percent, to the frustrauon of Carter admini­stration inflation fighters. 
From month to month in the past year, prices in one area would moderate only as prices in another showed a sharp rise. Thus, when food or health care prices slowed, energy or hous­ing prices would accelerate tu maintain inflation at a 13 per­cent annual rate. 
The last time inflation in the United States has been in double digits for a full year was 1974, when a quadrupling of imported oil prices pushed the rate to 12.2 percent. In 1946, prices jumped 18.2 percent, reflecting the lifting of controls following the end of World War II. 
The Statton that Rocks you ,A,;\t\ trom the Tower TONITE PRESENTS 
The Soul Hour from 9-11 Featuring the best in Jazz, Soul, Rythm and Blues And Sportsline, where you the.listener can call in. 
All From Notre Dame's Stud~nt Rock, AM 64, 

PREPARE FOR: 
MCAT•OAT· LSAT ·OMIT GRE•GRE PSYCH·liRE BID PCAT•OCAT•VAT· MAT· SAT liMBI.n,m·ECFMG·FLEX·VQE 
NOB I, D • NPB 1• NLE 
flexible Programs & Hours 
Visit Any Center And See For Yourself Why We Make The Ditference 
l~-H MPUIN 
EOUCATIO"NAL CENTER
291-3150 
TEST PREPARATION SPECIAliSTS SINCE 1938 
Outside N.Y. State Only CAll TOll FREE: 800-223·1782 
Centers In More Than 80 Major US Cities Puerto Rico, Toronto, Canada & Lugano Switzerland 


KentuckyTickets 
300 tickets for Ken-ND b-ball game on Dec. 29 in Louisville's Freedom Hall go on sale Wed. Nov. 28, 7:00pm. 
First come, fit;st serve basis No line may form before 5:00pm on the 28th 
Only 1 ticket per person Student must present I.D. . ~ick~s $5~5 each 
__L 
~------------------------..------------------------------­
Wednesday, November 28, 1979-page 6
Features Chapter Two: First Rate Comedy 
Mark Muzzillo 
The Broadway Theatre Lt'ague con­ship to help ease them through the gan's Island". She brin~s a lovable divided only by a couch on a tinued Its second offering of the lonely period of transition. quality into her characrenzation here, turntable, and the way the couch is season with rwo performances of Of course, the usually terrible yet she can be strong and dominant turned, plus the clever use of "Chapter Two" this past weekend. blind dares ensue. When George and when necessary. The result is that lighting, let the action alternate Neil Simon's comedy lived up to Jennie finally meet, everything clicks Jennie is a vibrant, vulnerable wo­between their two residences without advance billings and it is amazing and they marry within three weeks. man whose good looks are over­any further change in scenery. This how the man churns out one comedy In the second act, however, Simon shadowed by her intelligence and technique works well. hit after another. He currently has is not satisfied with a simple comic equilibrium. What man wouldn't There are, however, two distrac­two plays doing well on Broadway-­structure. He adds a parallel plot in want ro marry her--even after only tions. The set is so obviously created "Chapter Two" and the musical hit which the matchmakers have an three weeks! • in perspective that the lines are "They're Playing Our Song". The affair. Although this does provide for Her emotional outburst in the slanted. That wouldn' r be so bad Theatre League deserves much credit some greatly humorous situations, second act in which she rebukes her except that the doors and windows for making such first-rate em ertain­there are many loose ends to be tied new husband's attitude of self-doubt end up being lopsided. The other ment available in this area. to~ether. This is finally accom­and lingering anguish over his first flaw is that rather than having solid 
"Chapter Two" is autobiographi­plished, but the price paid is that the wife's death provides the high point walls, the set is comprised of cal. It is important to keep that in play drags near the end. Playwrights of the performance. The tirade is intermittent slats which allow the mind during the play; except for the should not feel that it is a sin to keep great because ir is not only a release audience to see the characters off­fact that the plot is true, it would an audience less than two-and-a-half of Jennie Malone's feelings, but of_ stage. This abuses theatrical license, seem so contriveJ as to be unbeliev­hours. the audience's emotions as well. ruins the element of surprise, and able. Simon's comedv here is as fresh David Faulkner does a commend­distracts the audience whenever 
Yet this is truly the story of Neil and effective as ev'er. It works so well able job as George Schneider. The there is an entrance or an exit. Simon anJ his marriage to actress not only because it . is funny, but neuroses of his character allow the Despite a few drawbacks, "Chap­l'vJarcia Mason. We see them in the because his characters become real strength of his counterpart, Jennie, ter Two" was well received here as it play as George Schneider, a spy for the audience. Thus, we can like to be clearly seen. When remember­has been elsewhere. The large crowd novelist, and Jennie Malone, an them, laugh at them, and learn truths ing that Simon is writing about at Morris Civic Auditorium appreci­actress. George's dearly loved wife about life from them. · himself here, it is worthwhile to note ated seeing the best of Broadway. has recently died and Jennie has just Jennie Malone is portrayed by the how touchingly personal and self-ef­Neil Simon is a great writer; and it is been through a divorce. Each of ·beautiful Dawn Wells. She has facing he is. all the more remarkable that he could them has an enthusiastic match­certainly matured as an actress since The set consists of rwo apartments, so thoroughly entertain by sketching maker who is trying to keep them her one dimensional role as Mary­George's and Jennie's, With one on a difficult, sensitive period from his suprli('d with adt'qu:ue com anion-Ann in the television series "Gilii-each side of the sta e. The arc own life. 

degree in counseling. the subject." Margaret Dimond, an SMC seni'or Margaret doubts she could ever on a block placement, is working a learn as much within the formal
Students take on 
forty-hour week rhis semester in the learning structure alone. ''Experi­Patient and Family Counseling Cen­ences ltke this supplement my class­ter of St. Joseph's Hospital. Working room education. They have also
the real world 
mostly in the Oncology (Cancer) made me aware of my ftmitations. ''
Bill McGurn 
Ward, she provides a myriad of As with many of the interns, Margar­sel, works rwo days each week in a et's futuredlans include a graduate
services for the patients, as varied as
concurrent placement that will run degree, an she intends to continue
are the individual's needs. Accord­
the entire year at the County Health in medical social work.
ing to her supervisor, it is mostly
Department. "Every day is differ­As different as the students and
on-the-job training, but she is also
ent," say!' Bernie, who could be the their internships are, it is a bit
required to attend staff meetings,
paradigmatic social worker, on the remarkable how they end up with
seminars, and consultations.
road all day, providing counseling very similar conclusions. The stu­
''If I had any doubts before, they
and referral services for her clients, dents see social workers as providing
are gone now,'' she says of her social 
which include welfare recipients and the much needed human element to
work career. Margaret recalls one
school age mothers. people's problems, and the intern­
striking case, a 73-year old woman
Though fulfilling, the job is not ships, far from discouraging the
with cancer who was ''simply ~e­
without irs challenges. One case students, seem to confirm their social involved a baby suffering from -markable. She realized that she lived work commitment while pushingmalnutrition. The father was a slow a good life and just wanted to get the them towards higher degrees. As learner, and the mother, who had most out of it. But," she adds, "she Martucci says, ''The internship is some mental and emotional prob­needed someone to talk to about what makes it all real for the lems, was simply apathetic to the death, because everyone else avoided students." baby's condition. When Bernie and her supervisor·arrived ar the house, 
the father, thinking they came to rake the baby away, practically threw the child into Bernie's hands. 
Madrigal Magic 
"I almost fell down," she admits, ''but my supervisor caught me and literally pulled me up.'' The baby is Sarah A. Lanman now back home but on a feedmg The madrigal: In the sixteenth performed by the h0sts and host· schedule Bernie planned. ''Book­century it was a piece of secular vocal esses. This year, rather than 
learning is fine," she concedes, "but chamber music intended for four or presenting an opera about the six­it's not going to give you a Situation five voices; it was also the most teenth century, solo and instrumental like that.'' She credits her internship music, as well as traditional Renais­
progressive form of musical composi­for solidifying her future social work tion in the latter part of the century. sance dancing will be featured to give 
plans, which include law school. When friends got together for a the effect of a group of peopleA different type of internship is feast during the Renaissance, madri­gathering together for a celebrauon 
held by an ND senior, Brad Voss­gals and other forms of musical and feast. berg, who works on a concurrent entertainment were typically a part of This practice of er.tertaining one placement with the Alcoholism Coun­the evening's festivities. Each year another after a feast was common 
cil of South Bend. The council, not a the St. Mary's Madrigal Dinners during the sixteenth century. The prohibition movement, provides in­capture the spirit of an Elizabethan audience will be asked to join in the formation on the possible dangers of Christmas Feast. A menu including singing and celebration of the Christ­alcohol and how it can be used in roast beef, winter salad, plum mas season. As has been the case in moderation. pudding, and wassail (or Christmas the past few years, the Madrigal
Brad gives most of his talks at punch) is served amid Renaissance Dinners promise to be an enjoyableschools or runaway shelters, thus dancing, singing, and general merry­alternative to the usual holiday
dealing mostly with kids, which is making. revelry. why he prefers the informal sessions. Carol Knell and Raymond
Over the past seven years the 
Some are just ignorant about alcohol; Sprague, faculty members of Saint
brightly colored sixteenth-century some have alcohol problems them­costumes and lively music of the Mary's Music Department, are the selves; and some have parents with Madrigal Dinners have created a co-directors of the production. Dr. alcohol problems. ''These kids just unique Christmas experience for Sprague works with the Chamber 
need someone to talk to about alcohol every guest. This year's eighth Smgers, while Ms. Knell directs the because many are unaware of the annual Dinner is offering a slightly dancets, the Opera Workshop, and facts and avatlable services." different approach: not only will the the collegium musicum ·(an instru­About the internship itself, he is audience be invited to participate in mental ensemble) each group will enthusiastic. ~'It's good to get away the activities, but the event itself will be contributing to the sixteenth 
from campus beeause people are be more authentic than ever before. century program. The. dinners will be 
really sort of sheltered here. Out When .Saint Mary's began its given on November: 2Q,""'30, and 
there you see a lot of people who Madrigal Dinner tradition, entertain­December 1, 2 at 7 p.nf ip Regina 
don't have it as nice as we do." Brad ·ment was primarily held after the North Lounge. Ticket inffnlliat,ion for likes his . specialized area, chemical meal, when a conqens(:d opera, set the dinner and show rna~ l:!.e·ob'tained 1 dependency, and seeks a master's during the S~teenth Ce by calling 284-4176 ... ·r. ;·I~, ',-:.,• t','' ~;,l,~,;,
·--··-·-•-• oa--·.. -·--•• 

--~----~
.--------­
The Observer Wednesday, November 28, 1979 -page 7 

1• 
Pure Prairie League 
The finishing touches to South B('nd ·" marathon music weekend were provided by the country-rock band Pure Prairie League. Long known for their unique country sound int ('rwoven between acoustic and p('dal sreel guitars, b~gged the_ cou111n· in favor of rock m front of about 2ooo people at Stepan Center b('fort' Thanbgiving. 
llw band was formed during. the ('ark ''71)'-; in southern Ohio, founded 1)\ Cr;lig Fuller and Jim Caughlan. Fulln wa" the backbone of PPL. B<'"id('.., writing many of th(' songs, lw wa-.. n·..,pwl..,ible for the band's fine a, ou..,tiL guitar sound and "111'"'11' vocals that is typified in such -;on~.;"_a.., ·· :\mie. ·~ "B,~t.dder Skies"' 
and 'll:irmon\· Song. 
The band's sound was completed b~· G1·orge Puwell on guitar . .Jim Lanham on hass. Irm Caughlan on drums and I ulm n:1vid Call on pedal steel. The hn(' Prairie League that_ played Saturday contained none ot th(' original band mc:~hers and 11 showed. Thn· went ott on too many tangents co_mpriscd of electric guitar jamm111g often supplemented ~Y. the -;axophone. totally uncharacteristic of older and better PPL 
When Fuller left the band after their s1·umd album. '·Bustin Out.·· the group·.., quality of music began to deteriorate. The band had already gone through a multitl_lde of new mu-;icians when the1r third album. "Tw., Lane Highway ... came out. It was still a good album, but unfortu­natelv for PPL fans. their last. 
Bas~i-;t Mike Reilly joined the band on this album as did guitarist Larry Goshorn. They, George Powe II, drummer Billy Hinds and Michael Connors on kevboards steered the band through fi~e more albums up to their latest LP, "Can't Hold Back." 
The Art of Conversation 
Yes, Let's face it. Conversation can ~et a lit de drab around here, espec­Ially w1th casual acquaintances. it seems like we roll around to at least one ofabout five questions in a pinch. 
Bu;: there's a solution to the problem ;ituation you're in when you're asked Joe of them. Ignore it! But if you're coo polite for that, whatever you do, don't give the form_ula ans~er. If you jusi follow the few mstrucuons I g1ve, I gJarantee your conversation will takc off instead of ending when the only aprropriate response is "umm.. yeah.... l guess". Here are some typ~ ,:al 1uestions, their typical an­swe.s, and some others, that will leave a more definite impression on the person doing the asking. 
How are you doing? 
A) Fine thanks. Howbowcherself? 
B) Better. I threw up a couple of times, but, better. I saw the doctor, but left in a hurry; you know--out­dated methods. (They'd say "What did he say?") You say, He said, "We propose to bleed you, to rid you of the evil humors". 
What's your major? 
A) I'm doublemajoring': Architec­ture and Mental Health. 
B) I'd like to be all things to all people. You ask _me _how? I will te_ll you. Everyone 1s nght, no one 1s wrong. What the world needs now is love, sweet love.. Ignorance is bliss. Joy is like the rain. Everything is beautiful. . 
Is anyone sitting he~e? . 
A) No. · : · .. · ­· · B)Yes. • ~~·:." \. 
: . ; _. _ ~:;,' '· · ' ·'How about this weadle.r.,. hi~h? 
A) It really stinks, this South Bend weather.. ' .· 
Jay Traverse 
Powell and Goshorn have since left and were replaced by Vince Gill and Patrick Bolin, who rounded our the field for Saturday night's perfor­mance. 
The band opened their set with the imroduction to "Arnie," "Falling in and Our of Love" from their second 
album. They followed with two songs from the ''Two Lane Highway'' album, "Kansas City Southern" and 'Til Change Your Flat Tire, Merle.'' The latter was dedicated, "to all you homegrowers out there." It didn't look like there were that many homegrowns in the audience but with the crowd's instant applause 
mixed with intermittent prairie dog 
howls. I could have underestimated. 
Their n('xt few songs came from th('ir late,.;t album. as they played "(;oodb\'1· So Long ... and the title track. ''( an't Hold Back." This is probably their best album in the last four years, though it contains the Jca..,t anwunt of country-rock. The addition of Vince Gill on guitar and vocals has improved the quali~y of their music but taken them as far from country rock as they have ever been. Gi II stole the show. playing the elenric guitar mixed with the banjo and violin, starring much like .Joe \XfaJ-;h had done the night bef(H-c. (~ill'-; vocals are a substantial impro­v1·ment cumparC'd to bassist Mike i{('ilh-, but his soft voice seemed out of place as he performed like he would have rather been playing with Aerosmith than PPL 
Alter a few unevcnrful tune:;, thev 
returned to their new album playing 
"f\li'<l'l'\' Train." which is verv char­
acl!·rist :c of older Pure 'Prairie 
L('aguc. However. they tended to 
drag out the song, embarking on loud 
jamming characteristic of the whole 
C\Tning. The next series of songs 
Joe Ryan 
us what mood God is in. If it should rain, someone has done something to 
.make God very sad. Snow tells us 
that God is angry and bitter, our 
decadPnce stirring up his cold wrath. 
Even at this very moment (as we 
speak), He may be wailing ~nd 
gnashing his teeth. With the commg 
of strong winds, we know God is 
happy, for he is whistling a happy 
tune. Red sky in the morning, sailor 
take warning. Red sky at night, 
sailor's delight. Mackerel sky, three 
days it's not dry. 
Where are you from? 
A) New Jersey, by way of Idaho. 
B) I know what you're up to. You want to write me letters during breaks and the summer. Honestly, I am sick to death of people trying to worm their way into my life. They'd throw the baby out with the bath­water--they've just got no sens·e! (They'd say "Hey, sorry!! I just thought you might be rich.'') 
What's your name? Mine's Seamus McOMurphy. 
A) That's a good Irish name. Mine's Joe Ryan. What's yours? 
B) That's a bad Polish name, Seamus. How do you justify your existence? 
How do you like it so far? 
A) It's okay. It's kind of hard adjusting, though. 
B) I_am outraged! I cannot believe the rich, spoiled brats that come here and jl!st want to spend, spend, spend! Take_you fdt.example. I hat~ you, •aad every,th~g about you. Don't you .see? -We -should be free from all our irihibitio_ns. Weshould· all sit in a grassy knoll and write Haiku.' Come . .MeHow out with me. oh, speaking of--.he-w was your summer? 
'. ~~. ..~ . ,I 
brought the crowd to their feet. They 
started out with "Arnie," clearly 
everyone· s favorite. Vince Gill did a 
firK' impersonation of Craig Fuller's 
voice and this was one song they 
didn't drown with. improvisation. 
Thev then played ''Pickin to Beat the 
Dcv;l" from "Two Lane Highway," 
followed bv "That'll Be the Day," 
an old Buddv Holly tune made 
popular by Linda Ron~tadt. ~ill next 
rook the microphone from Redly and 
sang "I Can't Believe," another new 
song. . The final song of the evenmg bC'fore ' the encore was "Two Lane High­~ay." It typified the evening as they 

Stepan Center Satuttlay, November 17 
substituted Gill's electric guitar for 
the pedal steel guitar done so well by 
John Call on the album. The final 'song of the encore was the title track from their fifth albtlm, "Dance," which is what many people were doing the whole time anyway. 
During the course of the evening Pure Prairie League played only rwo songs from their vintage years, those being from their first two albums. One reason for this was that they probably wouldn't want to play material that wasn't their own and most importantly, they simply don't have the talent to reproduce the band's old sound. 
The Observer Wednesday, November 28, 1979 -page 8 
' Former worker reveals coverup of flaws in nuclear power plant construction 
\X' ASIIIN<;TOl\J (:\P) -A ·'After I started working and mention any names since former consrrunion worker on a seeing how the construction ''some of these persons are nuclear pnwer pl<mt L1t-;ng built was handled, I changed my under investigatio~'' by the in southern Indtana told a views," he said. He gaye a Department ofJusuce. House subcommtttce ye~terday sworn statement to an antt-nu· 
Also testifying were Sens. 
that he watched workers im­clear group in Indiana shortly 
Birch Bayh, D-Ind., and Wen­
properly pat~: h flaws ~n the afrer leavmg the job. That 
dell Ford, D-Ky. Bayh said the 
plant's concrete. conrawmenr statement detailed the allega­
"situation at Marble Hill clear­
dome in other structures. tions he repeated yesterday. 
ly pinpoints what can happenCharles Edward Cutshall said "I've seen improper patch when a cost-conscious, inexper­
work, where the wrong f!laterial 
he told supervisors about the ienced licensee, operating in an 
flaws but "I was told not to say bad material -was put mto the ar~a with a shortage of readilyanything." He also testified he holes," Cutshall said, referring 
available trained personnel, 
was told to mix concrete to to air holes caused when the 
and with contractors under 
patch the holes in one propor­concrete did not pack down 
pressure to cut costs, is left to 
tion but to say that another properly. 
tts own devices.'' 
stronger proportion was used. He also said he watched a 
Ford noted both the NRC and
Cutshall's allegations, similar supervisor tell another laborer 
Public Service Indiana, the
to those he previOusly made in a to "cover up" one section of 
plant licensee, beli.eve the prob·
sworn depostion, came as a improperly packed cement. 
House Government Operations And he said at one point he !ems can be resolved but said he had "no confidence whatso· ·
subcommittee opened hearings was instructed to "mix 2111 on procedures for monitoring sand to 1 cement but told to tell ever that this would occur. He construction procedures at the that the mix was 2 to 1. '' urged construction. not resume 
Marble Hill nuclear power plant Subcommirtee chairman Rep. unless the plant ts convened near Madison. Anthony Toby Moffett, D­into ''something other than a 
Safetv-related work on that Conn., told Cutshall not to nuclear facility." plant ~as halted by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission after its investigators found prob­In Iran lems in 1~ of 19 areas of concrete which Cutshall pointed out to them and after other 
China supports U.S. position
possible safety problems were tndependently uncovered. PEKING (AP) · China sided Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, now 
An NRC inspector, Cordell with the United States yester­receiving cancer treatment in Williams, told the panel that 99 dav in the Iranian crisis, declar· New York. percent of the bad concrete ing after three weeks of. official "\Xle are concerned about patches uncovered so far were silence that "accepted dtploma· recent events in the relations 
Studl:'nls brow~1·ed as .undors looked on yesterday at th~
within six inches of the concrete tic immunities should be uni­between Iran and the United 
Chrisltthl.l' .1de zn the l1hrary. [photo by John Macor]
surface. The problem areas versally respened." . States of America," the state­
ranged in size from two square The statement, released by ment said. feet to eight square feet, he the Foreign Ministry, express­"We always hold that the said. ed concern over the crisis and a internal affatrs of each country 
Food Services continue 
NRC regulations require the hupe that an early solution can should be managed ·by its own massive concrete walls, which be found ''through peaceful people and that there should be are intended to contain radia­consultation." no interference in the internal 
non-meat meal program
tion in event the reactor mal­The statement gave an indica­affairs of other countries. functions, to be of uniform tion of the attitude China may "I3ut at the same time we hold 
h_y Tricia Beaujean "We are here to meet the 
quality and thickness. This is take in a U.N. Security Counul that the principles guiding in­
St.'ljfReporter students' needs," he said. 
because radiation can pass meeting on the situation, called ternational relations a.nd the . } Robinson acknowlt:dges the through air pockets or other bv Secretary General Kurt accepted diplomatic immunities The dining halls do not run a success of special t>vent me«ls flaws in the concrete more Waldheim. The session was should be universally respect­vegetarian menu, although they sponsored by campus clubs. 
easily. expected to begin today. ed. do include a non-meat meal such as the German Club, and Cutshall, a 22-year-old laborer The Chinese media have indi­"We hope that a reasonable 
once a day, accrording to would like to see other clubs 
who worked fur two months at cated sympathy fur U.S. go­and appropriate solution can be Robert Robmson, food services participate.
rhe l\farble Hill plant, told the vernment attempts to negotiate found at an early date through director. "If I were a vegetar­Robinson said that anv stu­subcommittee on energy, en­the release of '119 r mericans, peaceful consultation in accor­
ian I could subsist very nicely,'' dents or facultv members mav 
vironment and n:uural resour­h{·ld at the embassy in Tehran dance with principles of inter­
he said. attend and participate in the 
ces that he was pro-nuclear since Nov. 4 hy Iranians de­national law and diplomatic Last year Food Services menu planning process.
.
wh~n he started rhe job. manding the return of Shah prautce. " promised a meatless or low­
meat dish everyday, students
rllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllltauHIIIIIIIIIIIIHI..IIIItnttllllltiiiiiUIIIIHtlltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii51111111111UIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIftllllllt8llllll1111llllllll111111, 

I ~ !VIE!... 
1 
A PrintE!r? 
1 
I'm an Engineer!
Why Not? 
Sure, you've visited a Print Shop & Competitive Analysis. when you were in grade school, and 
Engineers find person3l challengBsit was a pretty small, unimpressive 
in a company building on a heritageplace. That's one of the fascinating of Craftsmanship that's 500 yearsthings about the printing business. 
old and busily engaged in pushingSome fine work is printed in tiny 
back the frontiers of technology.
-
shops all over the country. However, They find personal satisfaction in a 
they don't hire Engineers. Some fine company deeply involved in inform­printing is also produced by large, 
ing, education and entertaining a diversified, multi-plant printers. knowledge-hungry world. 
R.R. Donnelley is one of these ... Whatever your career goals, you the world's largest, in fact. We hire should evaluate the opportunitiesEngineers of all kinds ... for Re­available to you at Donnelley. Si9n search & Development, Environ­up in your Placement Office to see 
mental, Energy & Safety. Manufac-our Representative on 

feel however that the dining
i Students may 
~ 
halls have dropped the program. Robinson clarified rhe dining 
request
halls' menu cycle which in­chides a non-meat dish either at lunch or dinner, but not usually 
use ofStepan
at both. The Notre Dame Food 
Hall Athletic CommissionersService receives input about and interested students aremenu likes and dislikes from reminded that requests for thestudent employees, suggestion 
use of Stcran Cenrer must be
slips, and the Food Advisory filed by this Frida\· in theBoard. A basic dietary menu is Students Activities O(fice. Dr.
used, bur ''we tailor it to the James l\1d)onn('ll. Director ofNotre Dame program," said Student Activities, srres~edl\.obinson. 
that time at Stepan is popularSeveral years ago, fooJ ser­
and interested groups are
vices conducted a campus sur­urged to have their requests onvey asking students what foods file.
they wanted served more fre­quently than others. "We were not really surpris­ed with the results," stated 
Authority
Robinson. Liver and onions were at the bottom of the list, therefore they are featured 
once during the menu cycle. to discuss 
There were no marked prefer­ences for more non-meat 
abortion
dishes. "But we became aware of co-ed needs and now women's preferences are also ProL John Noonan, of the considered," said Robinson. Universitv of California at 
Robinson emphasized that Berkeley, will speak of "The the food service management Abortion Culture," at 7:30p.m. and the administration are both in the Library Auditorium this 
Thursday. Noonan is a wellopen to ~tudent suggestions known author of several books
concerning menu or meal plans. However, sufficient student in· in this field, includingA Private Choice: Abortion in Amenca tn
terest is necessary before changes can be implemented. the Seventies. 
.• 

The Observer Wednesday, November 28, 1979 -page 9 

Marine seeks dismissal of charges 
W ASHh\IGTON (AP) · Pfc Robert R. Garwood, saying "the Marine Corps is deter­mined to take my life if poss­ible," sought dismissal yester­day of charges brought against him when he returned in March after 13 1/z years in Vietnam. 
"I have grave doubts that I 
· will have the resources or the mental or physica~ health to survive and adequately defend myself," Garwood said in a petition filerl in the U.S. Court of Military Appeals, the mili­tary's highest court. He also submitted a deposi­tion that in Vietnam he suffered malaria, tuberculosis, cardiac arrest, liver disease and a blood infection normally restricted to birds. Garwood, 33, has been sta­tioned .at Camp Lejeune, N.C. since his return. He accused the military of dragging its feet and taking ''not a single further procedural step" to move the case toward dismissal or a trial. He is charged with desertion in time of war, acting "as an interpreter, informer and guard" for the enemy, solicit­mg American forces to lay down their arms, informing on two fellow prisoners who were then tortured, and conducting indoc­trination courses for the enemy. The petition askes the court to direct the secreatary of the 
Hijacker misses U.S., wishes to return 
ROME (AP) -Ten years after hijacking a jetliner from Los Angeles to Rome, former U.S. Marine Raphael Minichiello is {ree in Italy but homesick for America, where he faces arrest and trial. 
''I'd like to go hack there, I'd like the United States to be my second homeland, the only one for which I was at war,'' said the slender Minichiello, who on Oct. 31, 1969 commandeered a Trans World Airlines Boeing 707 for a flight of more than 6,900 miles. No om· was injured in the hijacking, one of the longest on record. . 
He was arrested almost im­mediately and served 18 months in an Italian prison, but faces prosecution under a U.S. air piracy statute that has not statute of limitations.. 
Minichiello was born 30 years ago in Italy but went to the United States as a child. He fought for 21h years as a Marine in Vietnam, where he was decorated for bravery. 
''There always remains something inside me about America. I'd like to see my mother and sister in Seattle, 
and  my  friends  again,"  
Minichiello  said  in  an  inter­ 
view.  

I'm well. I work from morning to night. I have a wife and a son. I'm rather happy," Minichiello said. "But I don't feel completely free because in America I'm not free." 
At age 14, Minichiello moved with his family to Seattle, Wash., from the village of Irpino in the mountains above Naples. He said he had trouble adjusting to American society. 
''I joined the Marines ·at 17 and I told myself I'II be brave so they will treat me as a true American. I saw so many dead but I thought I was fighting for 
. my country. But at Camp 
Pendleton (Calif.) some super­
iot'S-WOl.Jld·nrttm~ ivhlfn::rstr.'-~---­
Navy and the commandant of the Marine Corps to dismiss the charges, two of which are punishable by death, and three which subject Garwood to the risk of long imprisonment. 
Garwood said he was not able to take advantage of physical and mental help he needs because under military law his conversations withthe doctors could be used against him in a trial. 
He said that militay authori­ties have refused to let him withdraw money from the $145,000 he has coming in pay and allowances for the period while he was in Vietnam. 
The government, he says, ''appropriated his assets so that he would be financially incap­able of preparing a timely defe fense.'' 
Garwood says the charges against him should be dropped because the military needlessly re-investigated his case, pro­crastinated in concluding it, forced him to choose between his mental and physical health and his right to remain silent, and unlawfully seized his money.'' 
In a deposition, Garwood recounted his story. He was captured by the enemy in Vietnam on Sept. 28, 1965. Last February, he said, "at enormous personal risk, I man-
While he was stationed at Camp Pendleton, Minichiello broke into the post exchange. He said he thought he had been 
cheated  out  of  money  and  
wanted  to  check  the  record  
books.  He  was  caught  and  

ordered to face a court martial on breaking and ·entering charges. 
"I was desperate. I bought a carbine. I felt I wanted to go back to Italy. The Cuban hijackings made me think the quickest way was to hijack a plane." 
Minichiello went to Los Angeles where he boarded a flight bound to San Francisco. Fifteen minutes after takeoff, he pulled out the carbine and held it to the back of a stew rdess, demanding the plar;e fly w Rome. 
The plance landed in Denver, Colo., and Minichiello released all 35 passengers and three stewardesses from the crew of seven. 
In Italy, Minichiello and an Iialian security officer who volunteered as a hostage left the plane and drove into the countryside until apprehended by police. 
Minichiello was tried twice by a Rome court and sentence to 31h years in prison, a punishment criticized as mild at the time. He was pardoned . 1d served only 18 months of the term. 
RESEARCH 
CANADA'S LARGEST SERVICE 
Send now lor latest cataiQg. Thousands of termpapers on all subjects. Enclose $5.00 to cover return postage. 
ESSAY SERVICES 
67 Yonge St.. Sulle 1504 
Toronto. Onterlo, C1nada 
MSE 1JB 
....,~tn ~·~~~at ____ ~-, 
aged to get word out of Vietnam or my continued existence and of my continued desire to come home.'' 
[continued on page 4] 
Court orders new trial for rapist 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The Indiana Supreme Court· has ordered a new trial for Robert 
L. Davis, convicted of raping and kidnapping a nurse in Bloomington. 
Davis was sentenced in Monroe Superior Court to life imprisonment for kidnapping the nurse on Sept. 17, 1975 from a coin laundry, and re­ceived a 17-year sentence for rape. 
The conviction was upheld by the high court in 1976, but since then the court has clarified a defendant's right to a change of judge. 
Justice Dixon W. Prentice, writing for a unanimous court, said Tuesday Davis must be given a new trial because he was denied a change of judge at his trial, even though he had made a timely request for one. 
Davis had argued that the judge was biased against him. The high court said when such a claim is made, a change of judge is mandatory. 
In another decision, the Howard Superior Court convic­tion of James R. McCabe for criminal, confinement and de­viate sexual conduct was up­held. 
McCabe argued that police improperly suggested to the victim during a !tne-up that the was the one who attacked her. But the high c.ourt said the line-up was handled properly by police and there was no evidence of misidentification. 
The high court also upheld the Lake Superior Cm :rt convic­tion of John Hayt ron on charges of robbery and habitual crimmality. 
Rugby Meeting 
Thursday, Nov. 29 LaFortune BallRoom 7:00pm Plans for spring Trip will be Discussed $50 Deposit is Required 

• 
CREDIT REPRESENTATIVBS (BS Finance) 

• 
PRICE ESTIMATORS (BS Accounting or BSBA) 

• 
SALES (BS Marketing or MBA) 

• 
MANUFACTURING MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS 


I 
I I 
I 

The Observer -SportsBoard Wednesday, November 28, 1979 -page 10 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -Second places I wanted to play and 
M~n~rei~, batting .305 for the 
baseman Dave Cash said Tues­finish out my career.'' . 
PhiiiJes m 1975 with a major
day he ex~;>ects to finish out his Ray Kroc, the Padres' owner, 
league-leading 213 hits. 
career With the San Diego said Cash was "the first real 
In 1976 he signed with the 
. Cover
Cash signs Padres after signing a three second baseman we've had Exp~s in the first re-entry draft, • -year contract described as since I got the club five years 
getung a six-year contract for 
virtually identical to his old one ago." 
more than $1 million, Cash set 
with the Montreal Expos. Rookies Sam Perlozzo and Tim 
club records at Montreal in [cnntinued from page 11)
Cash was acquired yesterday Flannery are expected to chal­
1977 with 650 at-bats, 188 hits
by the Padres from Montreal lenge Cash for the second base said. "To me, that's hypo-
and 42 doubles. He led the
Padre 
for infielder Bill Almon and job. 
Expos with 91 runs scored and .-.:· 
outfielder-first baseman Dan An 11-year major league vet­
21 stolen bases. Bingham said his magazine
Briggs. eran and three-time all-star 
went ahead and picked Indiana 
The 34-year old Cash told a who has been in four National Last spring, Cash lost his 
as the No. ·I team in the nation 
news conference that he was League playoffs, Cash got a starting JOb to Rodney Scott but
contract 
anyway.
moving to San Diego ' to help -no-trade clause in his San DiegD regained it late in the season. 
"We used an Indiana jersey
but I'm not here to work any contract. He was a regular for He hit .321 in 76 games with 
with the No. 1 on ir for the 
miracles. It was one of the Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and Montreal. 
Molarity 

phrase effect 21 Precept 32 Accrue (with 40) 22 Ballpoint 
33 Family 55 Like an 25 Fiasco 
member otary 26 Cogent 34 -Abner 56 Sacred bull 27 Stocking­35 Restart 58 Undeviating cap 
15 Egret item phrase 59 Underhanded 28 Responsi­16 "Now-me 39 "-Were a 60 Took the bility 
down..." Rich Man" bus 29 Waft 17 Bancroft 40 Nameof 61 Chic end 30 Calls up 18 Indy entrant many a pope of London 31 Specialty 19-up 41 Insect 62 Full up act 
(gauge) stage 63 River in 32 Nile bird 20 Hindsight 42 Mali people Belgium 33 Sale stlpu­
aid 45 Dutch coins lation 23 Fix 46 Cap. Hill OOWN 36 Candor 24 Word on a VIP 1 33 A.: Sp. 37 Public 
wedding 47 Collections 2 Atlanta disorders notice 48 Uses hind­arena 38 Agent 25 Jive talk sight 3 Aladdin's 43 Uprise derail 44 Modernist Yesterday's Puzzle Solved· 4 See 54A 45 Gave away 5 Arose legally 
The Daily Crossword 
6 Portrayer 47 Gl0ve
"-' 
-
of Charlie lec.iher 
Chan 48 Lay away 7 Vas 49 -out 8 Part of (stretches) 
USA: abbr. 50 Andrews of 9 Musical films piece 51 Pluck 10 Gave wrong 52 Grandiose 
informa· poetry lion to 53 Team 
11 Others, 54 Kittenish to Caesar sound 
12 Not inclined 57 Homily: 
II 

11/30179 
to work abbr. 


cover," he said. "We got the jersey made special from the pe<_>ple who manufacture the IU umforms. 
"What really bothers me is that Knight also hinted rhat Sporrs lllusrrared won't be al· lowed credentials to cover any Indiana games this winter," Bingham said. "If he tries to stop us, then he's asking for warfare. He'll find himself in courr again." 
Hockey 
COLLEGE POLL 
This weekly college hockey coaches poll, as compiled by radio station WMPL, with first-place votes in parenthesis, records and total points: 
1. Minnesota (8) (7-4) 97 2. North Dakota (2) (7-3) 82 3. Michigan (9-3) 73 4. Boston U. (2-Q) 68 5. Northern Michigan (8-2) 53 6. Notre Dame (7-4) 39 7. Wisconsin (6-5) 32 8. New Hampshire (2-2) 20 9. Michigan Tech (7-5) 18 
10. TIE Ohio State (7-2) 17 Cornell ((}-2) 17 
Others receiving votes: Providence, Yale, Clarkson, Vermont 
Molarity best to run 
. Mike Molinelfi is on vaca­tion this week. The. Observer will run Molarity's best for the rest of the week. 
Before, During or After the Game, 
We've got the Beer-~~ 
ffiillet Hi h Life il 
Doonesbury 
YOU M16HT 5AY7HAT. I 11/00<. FOR 7J€ INTERNAl.. llEV­&IUSERY/CE. 
' 
by Garry Trudeau 
REALLY? IWA5 FIRST 
HAVE YOiJ A5516NE{) 70 KNOWN H/5 CASE {)()K£ LONG? IN 1963. 
I
I 


The Observer -Sports Wednesday, November 28, 1979 -page 11 
• • • Buckeyes 
if LaVon Williams has-a solid year in the pivot, the ready.
[continued from page 12] 
Wildcats should have just enough to edge out Tony Bruin, one of New York City's best, is a most potent offensive weapons--at the same time. Louisiana State in the Southeastern Conference. welcomed addition, and will join four returning \)-ilbert Sali_nas will be ready to step in along the front 7. LOUISIANA STATE--A very talented Tiger starters to form the nucleus of the team. Quite a bit in ltne, as will 6-10 freshman Tim Andree and 6-7 squad last year was just one of the many victims of 1979-80 will rest on the shoulders of 6-11 Roosevelt classmate Bill Varner. (More on the Irish in Friday's Michigan State's unstoppable title journey. But for Bouie, who can help lift the Orangemen to greater supplement). this new year, LSU will return most of the same faces, heights than last year's semifinal appearance in the 
5. BRIGHAM YOUNG--The Cougars of coach and coach Dale Brown's squad should have a dogfight East regional. Frank Arnold are this year's sleeper. While their with Kentucky for conference honors. 10. DePAUL--The Blue Demons proved last season likelihood of remaining near the top of the polls Rudy Macklin (6-6) and DeWayne Scales (6-8) are that they were in for good among the nation's elite throughout the season is small, BYU is the type of both back, and join 6-8 Greg Cook on a front line that basketball schools. But that may be the problem for squad which will show its· stuff come March. doesn't boast size, but has great strength and leaping coach Ray Meyer's team in 1979-80. The Chicago 
All-American candidate Danny Ainge had enough ability. . media has been so hungry for a winner, that it has of losing this past summer with the Toronto Blue Jays. 8. DUKE--Perhaps the biggest disappointment of painted too rosy a picture for the city's school. With ~ front line of 6-10, 6-9 and 6-8, and a strong last season, the Blue Devils have a good amount of The Demons lose valuable performers in Gary returntng nucleus from the nation's eighth best field talent returning in addition to a fine crop of freshmen. Garland and Curtis Watkins, and will fill in with goal s~c;>oting team of a year ago, Arnold has a lot to But the bad part for coach Bill Foster is the loss of highly-touted freshmen Teddy Grubbs and Tedd:-· be smtltng about. Jim Spanarkel--last year's captain was the "glue" of Cummings, both 6-9. But if the Demons want another 
~-KEN!UCKY--Everybody is raving about the the club. While people like Mike Gminski, Gene trip to the Final Four, they will have to come down Wtldcats th1s year, but Lt remams to be seen just how Banks, Ken Dennard, Bob Bender and Vince Taylor from the cloud that hovers over Chicago's north side. much super frosh Sam Bowie (7-2) and Dernck Hord make Duke one of the top clubs in the country, the loss And here's a look at the best of the rest: (6-3) can help an inconsistent Kentucky squad of a of Spanarkel will really hun. year ago. 9. SYRACUSE--The Orangemen have built quite a II. Georgia 16. Virginia 
Dwight Anderson, who killed Notre Dame last tradition on the hardwood, and it figures to grow this 12. Louisville 17. Georgetown year, matured greatly in his freshman season last season in the new Big East Conference. Coach Jim 13. UCLA 18. St. John's year, and teams with Kyle Macy to form a backcourt Boeheim's squad may not match the 26-4 mark of a 14. Purdue 19. Texas A&M combination that even Joe B. Hall can't dislike. And year ago, but come tournament time they should be I). Kansas 20. Marquette 
photo. anything critical in this story." Knight said.[continued from page 12] ''What I had in mind was to It didn't take long for Bingham The whole degree of difficulty
get Knight to go out to any stop 
sive play in the same issue and to'recdve an answer. may be greater, but the essence 
light in BI,Jomington and catch
Knight 1s an excellent defensive, ''The exact message from of the tnstructions was fairlv 
him in some kind of pose Knight was to take the stop clear. ·coach. 
symbolizing how his defense light, cut it into 2) pieces and The degree of difficulty may"My first idea was to use a 
stops the opponents," Bingham ram it up the---of 25 people at be greater, but the essence ofcaricature by David Levine of 
explained. "That's the general 
Sports Illustrated,'' Bingham the im.trucrion~ was fairly clear. 
Knight with five Indiana play­idea anyway. 
said. "I don't 1 nde stand the think 
• • ers drawn like puppets around "Reed asked if we would like Knight's version of his mess­
• Cover 
ing of peorle who can tear you 
0
him," Bingham siad. "Then I 
him to try to make peace with age was only slightly different. to pieces i • pnnt, like Sportshad another thought." 
Knight, and I said by all 
Knight's version of his mes­Illustrated did to m-~ flfter theAt this point, Bmgham called 
means," Bingham continued. sage was only slightly different. Pan Amt'fical1 Games, and then Billy Reed, a Louisville sports "I knew Kn1ght had a thing "I told them to walk outside3 turn. around and expect me towriter, and asked him to write a 
about Sports Illustrated and I 
the Time-Life Building in New pose· for their cover," Knightscouting report on Indiana anq knew we had leaned on him in York, reach up and stick theapproach Knight about a cover the past but I didn't plan wbole building up their ---' [continued-on page 10) 
All classified ads must be received by&00 p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. Tht bstrvtr office will accept class1f1eds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. ·All
Classifieds ' 
classifieds must be ,pre-paid. either in person or through the mail 
3 Bedroom efficiency home clean and Christmas shopping in the comfort of Barb Myers. 
Let's get together soon.
comfortable. partially furnished. all gas. your dorm I Avon gifts for men, women, Attention: Sctlolastic Editorial Board: Area Twyckenham and Corby. 287-7975 and children. 233-6581. Copy due Wed. Meeting at 6:30 sharp. 
Notices 
Hint: P. Thy. and E.
alter 5:00. Picture will be taken so everyone be on
FREE ROCK IN ROI_L--CRYSrAL 
For Sale: 1 pr. Spaulding Sideval Ski~. time! Seriously!
appearing in LaFortu-1e ballror m 
We rent dependable cars from $7.95 a With Salomon Racing Bindings. Good DESPERATELY NEED 2 tickets for Saturday night. day and 7 cents a mile. Ugly Duckling Cond. $125--or best offer. Call Jim Students. UCLA basketball game. Call Jerry
-
Rent-A-Car. 921 E. Jefferson Blvd. 277-3997 before 9:00A.M. We must unite! We will sleef! from 232-6296. 
Used Book Shop. Open Wed .. Sat., Sun. 
Mishawaka. Indiana. 255-2323. now until Christmas. No studying. No
9-7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan ~d. 1969 VW Fastback needs work, $450 as Don't miss the Midwest Blues Festival
papers. Nothing but sleep. They can'tNiles. 683-2888 
Room for rent -near rides. $45.00 per is. Call 277-5286. flunk us all. this weekend. For tickets call the Student 
Union ticket office.
month. 233-1329 Thomas D. Hartzell, Jr.
Morrissey Loan Fund 
Kenwood amp and speakers for sale. Call
Last day to apply for loans before X-mas PART-TIME JOB
Room for Rent. Mature. Clean, respon-Bernie 287-0864. I support you totally, Mr. Hartzell!
break is Dec. 12. $20-$200. One percent 
sible student only. Furnished kitchen Ryan "no doz'' Ver Berkmoes Undergraduates wanted for two short-interest. M-F. 11:30-12:30. and laundry privileges. Call 289-01 03 For Sale: 1973 Toyota Corolla 4 door. 35 term research projects. Both tasks deal nights and weekends or 232-6181 days. MPG, Air Conditioning. FM, 8 Track To my favorite RA in B.P.:Welcome 
with assessing student opinions. In-
Alterations for men and womens cia-
Stereo. Excellent Condition. 232-5484 or home 1 volves 2 1/2 hours work and can be 
thing. Call 255-6275. 288-6350. completed in just one day. Also, can be arranged to lit your schedule. Contact 
Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 277-0296. Bob at ext. 3886 or ·277-3903
Wanted LEM 
Own your own highly profitable blue jean John Ferrofi-for or fashiOn shop for $15,500. Fashion Can Do!!! Calm down [ha, ha] and you'll scheduling.
Will do typing -Reasonable -Neat ­
Need riders to St. Louis, leaving Thur., Flair 1-704-753-4048. do great on Saturday.-Remember the
Accurate. Calf 287-5162. little train [snicker] I think I can ... Friday at the Nazz: Bobby Stone and his
Nov. 29. Return Sunday Dec. 2. Call 
For Sale: Rhythm Rockers (9-12) Check it out.
EAH
3324.
Professional typist. IBM Selectric II. 
1 Student Basketball season ticket. P.S. When'sthe racquetball rematch?
Mrs. Burnore. Near Campus. 272-3134. seat Senior Section. Free--CRYSTAL rocks Saturday night.
Padded in Best
Wanted: Riders to N.W Iowa for 
oiler. 8932. Meredith,Christmas. To share usual. Call Dean
Saturday Night --LaFortune Ballroom Kristin-­
Let it snow
232-1150.
CRYSTAL plays ROCK AND ROLL. Need VALPO Basketball Tickets. Call Let it snow Congratulations, Congratulations, Con-Steve 8907. Let it snow gratulations. It couldn't have happened
Female roommate to share partially !urn.
HAtL ATHLETIC COMMISSIONERS are -to a sweeter person. You'll be a great
Happy 18th Birthday 1apartment. Call Lee days: 283-7458,
reminded that requests for use of Stepan doctor.
Need 2 Valparaiso Tickets. Call (SMC) Love always,evenings: 277-1654.
for next semester are due Friday. 5278. We love you I
Susie and Eileen The 'Quasi-QuadBEACH LOVERS! Part time student 
Wanted: Student basketball season Mike Meekslsales representative position available for ticket in padded seats. Call Paul 3402. Put on your dancin' shoesl LeMans Kristin Crisci has been accepted to MedSpring Semester. Job involves promoting
Lost&Found 
School. Call her at 7823 and ask her what
Freshman would dearly love the company commission and free travel. Call or write 
high quality sun trips on campus for 
Need 2 GA 's to any upcoming ~a me of a good friend at Dec. 7th Formal. PCOM stands for. You could congratu-Lost: Dungeons and Dragons Players basketball game. Call Brad at 1052 ('-Call Hopeful at #4527. late her too.
for an application. Summit Travel, Inc.,
handbook on first floor Grace. Five dollar Parkade Plaza. Suite 11, Columbia.
reward for return, no questions asked. Dawn B,
Kent,Missouri 65201. (800) 325-0439.
Return to 309 Grace. Phone 1621. Happy 19th Birthday.
Welcome back! Sleep well and call or Deb and Judywrite sometime.
CHRISTMAS WITHOUT SANTA? ' 
Personals
LOST: Sr-56 Texas Instruments calcula-
Regina Hall needs Mr. Claus for Xmas Beth 
tor. Last used in the Physics lecture room Hey Galvin,
Bazaar. Interested call 4-1-4884 or
1118 N.S.H. If you have found it, please What's the thrill in being tall?
4-1-5778. Shangrila, Camelot, Tortolla or All SMC Sophomores interested in work-
call 6824--Reward. Some famous women are small:
Brigadoon ing on the production crew for the talent --Cleopatra stood on stepsshow for Parents' Weekend, there will beNeed one rider to Oregon. Will leave Wherever we're going we'll be there soon
Lost: White knit wrap around sweater --Mae West was under 5'5"
a meeting Tuesday, December 4th from
Dec. 20 or 21st. Call 233-5686 alter 5:00 Nary aone of these could compare
purchased during senior class trip in -·Sandy Duncan gets lost in wheat fields
PM. Don't forget what you're to wear. 7:30-8:00 In room 203 H.C. Please
Acapulco. Last seen hanging on the --Golda Meir was wider than she was tall
It matters not whether the paper· sdone Attend!! Questions call Anita 14280.
hooks by South Dining Hall's right side. --Linda Ronstadt wears 6" heels
Need ride to Rochester, NY for Christ-At 1:30 Friday, we'll be on the run. -----------------­
Yours is still there, if you picked mine up --Olga Korbett can walk under balance 
mas. Call Jim 1539.
by mistake. Please call Cindy, 7993, alter beams
Bob,
To the four W. Virginians Lc. IINB4975-­
midnight. --Cheryl Ladd looks at Bosley's belly-
Need ride to Gr~en Bay or Milwaukee Your Toledo bound comrades are inter-Welcome back and Congratulations on 
button ...
Nov. 30. Call Nancy 4-1-4220. ested in meeting you. Give' us a call at a successful trip to Tokyo! I'm really
Small Gold Serpentine bracelet lost Score 1 for Short People.
8831 just alter dinner tl>night. looking lorward to my postcard.
Monday night. Call Aileen 6944. 
--The back seat writer Lisa 
Thursday at the Nazz: Recording artist Jim Madlem 9:30p.m. Listen for his first PS--Hi, Jack!
For Sale 
Ann Galesl release ("This Time") on local radio
Margie, Dusty, and Mister Rodgers.
For Rent 
You need a personal, so here it is: 
stations.
112 price United coupon. Best offer. come to our wild party Saturday night! Thanx for the best time I've ever had at R.S.V.P. 
the bars.
Gerry 277-5072. Found: Before break In Lafortune.
Furnished apt. for rent. Kitchen facili-Dave
JM, PhG. KG, JB, MC, PD. Small Silver pen with the Initial "B"
ties, very close to campus, $175/month. 
For sale --1/2 price American Airlines attached by a small chain. Lost aodCall 289-5406, 272-2720 alter 5:30. 
coupon. Call Rob 234-1633. found.-Adm. Building. 
-i 
I 
I 


Four return 
Belles prepare for b-ball season 
by Kelly Sullivan Sports Writer 
h 's basketball season at schools throughout the country, and Saint Mary's College is no exception. The Belles open their roundball schedule this Thursda>· night at Indiana Central and Saint Mary's Coach .I crrr Dallessio expressed optimism ab<,mt the season. ·'I'm pleased with the way we 
look  so  far.  Everyone  has  
improved guite a bit."  
The  Belles  will  return  four  
monogram  winners  from  last  

year's 6-H campaign. They are St·nior Namy Nowalk, Junior 
Maureen O'Brien, and Sophomores Mary Zuehlke and Ellen Hoye. Seven freshmen fill the remaining spots on the Belles' roster. 
Dallessio feels that the team 
must compensate for its lack of 
size and experience by playing 
quicker ball than its opponents. 
The coach outlined "two keys to the success of the season-how quickly the freshmen gain poise in game siruations, and how quickly ihe team as a whole blends together." Dallessio ,,dded that he intends to substi­tute frequently so that all eleven players will "see plenty of action." 
The Belles have upgraded their twenty three game 
Sports Briefs. _ ______, 
ill Hockey requires insurance 
Pr ,.,f ,,f u: ... ur'oilll ,. j, r<'qllln·.J of all inrerhall hockey play<·rs 
l('f,,.T rlw fir"' garnl'. flr<~of uf insurance is twing accepted at 
rlw I Ill< 111.1:: ..ttl,,. 111 IIH' AU: from 1J a.m to') p.m. Monday 
llllollglr I • ·.t.r~ 
Water Polo to discuss training 
Atrention water poloplayers. The Notre Dame Water Polo Club will beholding its winrer meeting this Friday at 4:00 in the basement of Alumni Hall. The winter and SJ?ring training programs will be discussed. For more informatton, call Mike at 8879 or Cam at 3434. 
Box Lacrosse to begin Thursday 
The Lacrosse team will have Box Lacrosse on Tuesdays and Thursdays starting this Thursday, November 29. The games will be located in the gym above gate 2 of the ACC (the ice rink entrance). . . 
Anyone who ordered a stick or other equtpme~t thts past fall, should pick it up at Rich O'Lear(s offi~e tn the ACC (C-4). It is important that you pick up thts cqutpment wtthtng the nc:xt week. 
The time and date of a weight lifting clinic for Lacrosse players will be announced in a future Observer. 
schedule considerably. Ont:" third of their opponents belong to Division II, meaning they offer their athletes 10-50 per­cent tuition scholarship, whtlt: Saint Mary's remains in Division III, providing less than 10 per cent tuition for athletes. This year, the Belles host their own "Roundball Classic" on February 1st and 2nd. They will also host the state tour­nement for Division III teams on the weekend of February 29th. 
The traditional rivalry with neighboring Notre Dame con­tinues this season as well. The Irish pay a visit to Saint Mary's next Tuesdav, December 4th. Dallessio be'lieves both teams are much bettet ball clubs than they were last year. The Belles will try to aver1ge three losses dealt by the Irish last season. Dallessio noted,' 'It will be a highly emotional game, to say the least.'' 
Dallessio encouraged fans to come out and watch the Saint Mary's team. ''If they come they'II see quite a different style of play than in previous years.'' After practicing dilligently six days a week since October 4th, Dallessio confi­dently stared that his team was ''ready to play.'' 
Wednesday, November 28, 1979 -page 12 

Preview issue Magazine takes cover from Knight 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) . For most people, appearing on the cover of a national magazine would be an honor. But Indiana University basketball coach Bobby Knight isn't most people. 
In the latest skirmish in his running war with the press, Knight told the nation' s.leading sports magazine to ... well, he told them in no uncertain terms that he did not want to be on their cover. 
Walter Bingham, a senior editor at Sports Illustrated magazine, explained from his end what happened. 
''A few weeks ago we were preparing our college basket­ball preview issue and mulling over who should be on the cover,·' Bir1gham said in by telephone Monday. "At first we thought of using a woman player. but that dido' t seem quite right. 
''The subject turned to which team we were going to pick No. 1 in out preseason story. and Larry Ketth, one of our writers, mentiont'd that Indiana was going to be a strong contender this year. 
"I said, 'That's it,"' Bingham recalled. "We'll pick Indiana No. 1 and put Bobby Knight on the cover. It seemed like a natural, especially because we are running a story on defen­
[continued on page II] 
Buckeyes headpreseason Top Twenty 
There is little doubt that Digger Phelps' 1979-80 
Notre Dame basketball team ts the most talented 
squad in the school's history. There is also little doubt 
that this year's Irish arc the fastest Notre Dame team 
ever. 
Nevertheless, there is no doubt that in the 
upcoming months we will witness more of a balanced 
game of collegiate basketball than we have ever seen 
ht:fore .. Ever since John Wooden's departure from 
UCLA. the NCAA's regulation ofscholarship numbers 
and, most importantly, the expansion of the 
post-season tournament field, the number of so-called 
contenders for the national title has grown annually. 
And this year will be no exception. · 
The following teams are the nation's b<:st, and ha~e 
the best chance of making it to the Ftnal Four tn 
Indianapolis: 
I. OHIO STATE--Buckeye coach Eldon Miller hasl a lor to look forward to. in · the 1979-80 season .. Four starters from last year's 19-12 sq"'ad, which handed defeats to such teams as Duke and Louisville, were to return for Miller's fourth year at Columbus. But when Miller recruited 6-8 forward Clark Kellogg out of St. Joseph's in Cleveland, his Buckeyes switched from a conrendcr's role to a favorite's role. 
Kellogg, this year's premier freshman, makes Ohio State the premier team in the nation's premier conference. He averaged 28 points last year, in addition to dishing out 17 assists per game--a figure which makes it easy for many basketball experts to parallel Kellogg to Earvin Johnson. 
Kellogg, who may ignit.e the ~uckeye pr~ram Ii~e Johnson did at East Lansmg, wtll. neatly fit .tnro Ohto Srate's alrea~y-talented front ltnc. Junwr Herb 
Paul 
Mullaney 

W1 s(l9.9ppg, 10.4rpg),at6-ll,istheBigTen's top big man, while 6-8 classmate] im Smith, another Cleveland native, should complement Kellogg and Williams well. In the backcourt, senior Lut·/\merican hopeful Kelvin Ransey (21.4 ppg) and junior Carter Scott·are capable of supplying their own firepower, and should keep opposing defenses honest. 
2. NORTH CAROLINA--Dean Smith, coach of the Tar Heels, will sorely miss the defensive wizardry of graduated Dudley Bradley. However, a strong returning cast should give the Heels a slight edge in the unpredictable Atlantic Coast Conference. 
Mike O'Koren, at 6-7, is an undisputed first-team All-American forward. He' II be joined on the front line by forward AI Wood and center Rich Yonaker. Dave Colescott, an Indiana product, will control the North Carolina offense from out top. While 6-9 freshman') ames Worthy adds greatly to the Heels' depth, Carolina's one weakness--compared to other national powers--may be its lack of bench strength. You can afford that, however, when Dean Smith is your coach. 
3. INDIANA--Controversial Hoosier coach Bobby Knight has all five starters returning from last year's NIT champions. And, if the team stays in tact for the duration of the 1979-80 campaign, there could be cause for celebration in Bloomtngton. 
While underrated forward Mike Woodson (21 ppg) is the team's leader, a couple of freshmen will cause quite a few heads. to turn thts winter. Isiah Thomas, a 6-1 prep All-American from Chicago, and Steve Bouchie,Indiana's 6-8 Mr. Basketball last year, both appear headed for starting roles. If that is the case, Bouchie would join the 6-9 tandem of junior Ray Tolbert and sophomore Landon Turne• along the front line. while Wuodson, at 6-7, would join Thomas in the backcourt. Butch Carter and Randy Wittman, both starters at guard last year, may have to come off. off the bew·h--with Carter being the sixth man. 
Knight, one of the country's best on-the-court coache!'), has been the target of many recenr potshots. But if everything goes according ro plan for Hoosiers in 79-80, Knight may get the last laugh. 
4. NOTRE DAME--The Irish will be ·a slightly different team this time around. Coach Digger Phelps is without the bulk oflast year, but Orlando Woolridge has built up his 6-9 frame by working on the weights, and is ready to give the Irish something they haven't had lately--a center that is mobile, quick and has good leaping ability. 
Senior Bill Hanzlik will miss the first few weeks of the season after undergoing surgery last week for a dislocated left index finger. Bur the Irish are deep at the guard!osition. Rich Branning will be at the poinr again, an will receive assistance .from Stan Wilcox, Mike Mitchell and highly-toured newcomer ] ohn Paxson. Phelps will finally be able to play forwards Kelly Tripucka and Tracy ] ackson--pcrhaps his two 
[continued on page II] 







