
, , , Crossword puzzle, page 10 

VOL. XIV NO. 12 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary'~ 
Vita discloses funds for hall social space 
by Tom Hay Senior StaffReporter 
Student Body Vice President Bill Vita told the Hall President's Council last night that University funds may soon be available for improvement of hall social space. 
"We seem to have an avenue of funds from the Administra­tion," Vita said. "This money is already in the University budget." According to Vita, University vice-presidents will be responsible for allocating funds. 
Vita expressed doubt that the money would be equally distributed to each of the dorms on campus. He explained that dorms needing the most improvements will be given first consideration. · 

· ''The funds will be given out by top priority on down, until we run out ofmoney,'' Vita said. ''Maybe only two or three dorms will get money.'' Vita said that dorms with well-developed social space would be at the bottom of the list. 
While he admitted that the plan was unfair to some aorms, Vita believed that it would provide the best solution campus-wide. 
"It will kind of penalize dorms that have done a lot of work on their own,'' he said,' 'but there are only x amount of dollars, giving little money to each is really just piecework.'' 
Vita said that University officials would study existing conditions in most dorms to decide which are most m need ol improvement funds. · 
Vita said he hOped that some halls might contribute money of their own for internal renovation. ''When halls try to share costs with the University, students tend to take better care of what they get," he said. . 
Vita also discussed the matter of 24-hour lounges for both sexes in the residence halls, but conceded that it was a matter to be worked out separately within each hall. _ 
In other matters, the HPC voiced protest over the University's ticket allocation policy for away games and planned to take future action on the matter. 



Strong reactions to WSND program 
by john McGrath Senior StaffReporter 
The Administration has reac­ted strongly to complaints about Monday night's "Radio Free Notre Dame" program on WSND-AM and has de­manded swift action from the station's management concern­ing future programming. 
The topic of the call-in talk show was "Sex at Notre Dame," but at times, the broadcast degenerated into of­fensive discussions of vulgar topics, according to listeners. Most of the problem resulted from obscene comments made by callers which went over the air. 
Charges of irresponsibility have also been leveled against five of the studio guests on the show, including two cur­rent employees, of WSND, two Notre Dame students not offi­cially members of the station staff, and a Notre Dame grad­uate who served as host to Radio Free Notre Dame last year. 
"The University is ·really up­set about that type of 'trash being aired," remarked bean of Students James Roemer. "It seems to us that the broadcasting standards used in the outside world would never tolerate the obvious sex­ual references made on that show (Radio Free Notre Dame), and the standards here should be much higher than even that." 

In response to complaints which he received, Roemer yesterday contacted Jim 0'­Brien, general manager of 
. WSND, and ordered the station management to come up with an acceptable plan of action before 2 p.m. today. "I laid a heavy burden on them (station officials) to come up with a program by 2 p.m. indicating what actions will be taken to deal with the people involved in the broad­cast; those who supervised the show, but who are re­sponsible for not cutting it off; and what type of action will be taken to assure that such a thing will never happen again." O'Brien met with the station's executive board last night to draw up proposals to offer Roemer today. Station Exec­utives subsequently drafted an eight-point plan in an effort to satisfy the dean of students' concern. ~ The Observer gained access last night to the contnet of the proposals which will be submitted to Roemer today. In its proposition, WSND plans to: --Cancel "Radio Free Notre Dame," the station's most highly rated program. --Tape delay all future talk shows aired over the station. --Restrict the two re ular 
station employees involved with ployees on probation for a Monday night's show from period of one year. appeanng on any future talk --Ban the appearance of shows at WSND. last year's host, who took 
--Cut in half the air time part in Monday's program, from of the two employees involved. --Place the same two em-[continued on page 2] 
WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 12, 1979 
Soviets arm 
Cubans with 

submarines 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Soviet Union is arming Cuba with weapons systems that could rose a "major threat to our oi supplies," demonstrat­ing a eattern of behavior that is "hosule to the interests of the United States,;' Sen. Henry M. Jackson said yesterday. 
Jackson, in a speech on the Senate floor, said the Soviets have ~iven Cuba two submar­ines, mcluding one that could mine U.S. coastal waters, threatening U.S. oil-tankers. The other is a training vessel, Jackson said, leading the pre­sumption that more attack sub­mannes are anticipated. 
Jackson said the submarines represent a "brand new mili­tary capability for Cuba.'' 
''Certainly, one or two sub­marines or a dozen or so MiG-23s do not constitute a threat to the United States in and of themselves," the Wash­in~ton Democrat said. ''The pomt is that this is a beginning. Where shall we draw the line? How big a 'Fortress Cuba' is too big?" 
Meanwhile; a censored ver­
sion of a military intelligence 
report surfaced that said the 
Soviets are increasing both of 
their weapons shipments to 
Cuba. 
Jackson's SJ?eech marked the latest escalation in the furor over Cuba, which began with the disclosure that 2,000 to 3,000 Soviet combat troops were based in the Caribbean ·island nation. 1In the two weeh since then, die issue has blos­somed into a major foreign policy obstacle for the Carter 
administration. 

Confrontation between crew club members-and area man 
by Mike Shields · News Editor 

A confrontation yesterday between Notre Dame Crew Club members and a man angered by the club's early morning practice sessions has forced the club to abandon morning practices. 
According to Men's Crew Coach Clete Graham, the man, a neighbor of the club's Mish­awaka boathouse, approached the club'.s rowing skulls and launch in a speedboat shortly after 6 yesterday morning. He began verbally abusing the 'rowers, complaining about ex­cessive noise levels. After he and Graham exchanged sharp works, the man closely circled the shells in his boat kicking up wash and sinding six inches of water into the 
boats. 

Graham said he positioned the small coach's launch betreen then speedboat and one of the shells, only to be rammed by the larger speedboat. After more shouted threats, the man sped away. 
The only damage reported in the incident was . a ~ash in the speedboat sustamed during the collision, ·but Gra­ham said that the man "had lives in jeopardy. He passed within six inches of the shells." 
Graham said he filed a com­plaint with the Saint Joseph County Police, which was tur­ned over to the county's Conservation office. No details of police action against the man were immediately avai­lable. 

Graham contacted Dean of Students James Roemer, who arranged a compromise solu­tion stipulating that the club would not be on the river until 7 a.m. 
Roemer explained last night that he had been in contact with the man, who has a 
wife seven-and-a-half-months pregnant. The man said that he and his wife have had trouble sleeping because of the club's early practices. 
Roemer said the man has -been calling Director of Ath­letics Edward Krause and Uni­versity President Father Theo­dore Hesburgh to complain about the noise. Hesburgh referred the matter to Roe­mer. After consulting sports department officials and those involved in the dispute, Roemer announced the 7 a.m. compro­mise. 
Neither side is pleased or happy," Roemer said. "It was a comrromise. I just hope it wil avert situations like this morning's." 
Graham said that Roemer is being "very reasonable. He 
(continued on page 9] 

~ 
r 
f 
, r r 
r 
' 
, 'r 'r
,
,
,
,
, 
'r 
' 
' 
' 


News in brief 
Frederic to find Mobile 
MIAMI (AP) -Hurricane Frederic will swirl ashore tonight near Mobile, Ala., if the storm behaves as expected, a forecaster at the National Hurricane Center said late yesterday. "Mobile looks like the most likely place for the center to cross," said forecaster Miles Lawrence. "Although Pensacola (FLA.( MIGHT GET JUST AS MUCH WEATHER." "You realize that our 24·hour forecast error is about 100 miles," Lawrence added, noting that a hurricane warning is in effect from Panama Ciry, Fla., to Grand Isle, La., halfway across Louisiana's Gulf Coast. The warning was posted last night as Frederic's winds increased to 120 mph and its forward speed increased to 10 mph. Residents of coas~al and other low areas were warned to pre­pare to evacuate their homes and businesses W ednes­day. 
At midnight EDT, Frederic's center was 375 miles southeast of New Orleans near latitude 26.1 north, longitude 86.1 west. The storm was moving northwest at 10 mph and was expected to continue moving on that course and speed. 
Many volunteer ifKennedy campaigns 
INDIANAPOUS (AP) -The coordinator of the Ken­nedy for President drive in Indiana said yesterday he has been swamped with volunteers since Sen. Ed­ward Kennedy indicated he may enter the race. Robert 
F. Wagner, an Indianapolis lawyer, said his phone has been ringing steadily since Kennedy's family said they would not stand m the way of a presidential bid by the Massachusetts Democrat. Kennedy also said in an interview with the Boston Globe that he hasn't ruled out running for president next year. "We got a tremendous number of calls yesterday (Monday) from people around the state who wanted to help out," Wagner said. Some of the volunteers, he said include-people who tried to convince Kennedy to run four years ago, and have been discouraged until now from hoping he would challenge President Carter in 1980. In addition, Wagner said, the calls have come from people who were involved in Robert Ken­nedy's 1968 lndtana presidential campaign. Wagner said the formation of Kennedy committees in Indtana and as many as 30 other states have been a major .fa_ctor in pushing the senator toward a dec1s10n. 

Weather 

Partly cloudy with a 20 percent chance of afternoon showers and thunderstorms. High in the low 80's, forty percent chance of showers and thunderstorms tonight ar·,d tomorrow. Low tonight in the low 60's. High tomorrow mid 70's. 

dinner SIGN UP neighborhood srudy help program, DINING HALLS 6:30pm MEETING off-campus council, LAFORTUNE 6:30pm MEETING sailing club, 204 O'SHAG 6:30pm ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING sr. marita's primary day school, LAFORTUNE AMPHITHEATRE 7 pm MEETING women's cross-country, FARLEY LOUNGE 7, 9:15, 11:30 pm FILM "dog day afternoon," ENGR. AUD. 7:30pm MEETING faculty senate, 202 CCE 7:30pm ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING smc sociology club, MADELEVA FACULTY LOUNGE 
7:30 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING nd historical sociery, LIB. LOUNGE 
7:30pm OPEN AIR CONCERT with chicago rock group · ALUMNI COURTYARD 
8 pm SOCCER nd vs chicago, CARTIER FIELD 
9 pm MEETING knights and ladies of columbus, K OF C HALL 
9 pm OPEN STAGE at the nazz, BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE 
' ...,. .. .... ...... ..
·····. -.-. 

Wednesday, September 12, 1979 -page 2 
... WSND 

[continued from page I] 
any future WSND broadcasts. 
--Forbid the ar,pearance of the two ''guest ' non-station employees from ever again appearing on a WSND broad­cast. 
--Develop and implement a station policy, based on Federal Communications Com­mission guidelines, regarding offensive program content. 
"I think these actions are strong enough to compensate for the damage and to prevent any future occurrence of what happened Monday night,'' commented O'Brien. . 
Much of Roemer's anger ~s foc~sed on w~a~. he feels 
ts dehberate repttltton of a similar incident which occurred last year on WSND. 
"We had this same thing (offensive content of a talk show) happen last year,'' Roe­
mer  recalled.  "We  thought  
we  took  action  that  Wl)uld  
put  an  end  to  any  future  

. mcidents, but the format and [ ti ed on page 9]
con nu • 

Football fans fill local hotels 
by Phyllis Washington 
People who need hotel rooms for football weekends will face a discouraging search, according to area hotel manager. Most of the major hotels along 
U.S. 31 and U.S. 20 are booked completely and have been filled since this summer. Most have policies for taking room reser­vations. For instance, the Ramada Inn and the Pick Motor Inn start accepting room reser­vations in the summer · before the coming football season. 
Over the summer, people send letters to them asking for room. The Pick Motor Inn begins answering the letters after Sept. 1, letting customers know the types of rooms available and the prices. The customers send return letters along with a deposit to hold their rooms. 
Usually, the rooms are taken up withm a week. The Ramada Inn has a special committee just for the purpose of filling rooms for home football weekends. They too ask for a deposit. Neither hotel still has rooms available. 
Many hotels and motels will begin raking reservations for next season right after the last game of this season. A reservationist at the Randall's Inn said that they will probably be full for next season about one week after the Miami game in Tokyo. The Holiday Inn, the Quality Inn and the Days Inn are all filled for this season. They will also begin to take reservations right after the Miama game. 
In general, there are very few rooms left for home footbal weekends: A few lucky people may happen to come upon a cancelled room reservatton 

~The Observer_ 
Night Editor:Scoop 

Assistanr Night Editor:Ann 
Monaghan, Suzy Marshall 
Copy Editor:}ohn McGrath 
Layout Staff:]Clhn Macor, 
Dave Thomas, Ryan 

Editorial Layout:Tina Ter­
laak 

Features Layout:.fohn Macor 
& Kathy Connelly Sports Layout:]ohn Smith Typists:Paul Mullaney, Pau­
la Shea, Kathy MuTTay, 
Mark Perry, Ann Monaghan 
EMT:Mich Santello 

Day Editor:Keith Melaragno 
Photographer:Ken Berum~n 
The Observer {USPS 598 !120] Is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S20 par year IS10 per semesterbfrom The Observer, 1'.0. box Q, Notre arne, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Prtss. All rtproductlon rights art reserved. 
somewhere or be able to bribe a Haven in Osceola, Indianan. reservationist. She's just about filled up for the 
As one reservationist USC weekend but she does commented,' 'People have of­have vacancies for MSU and fered me hundreds of dollars other games for only $18. She for rooms. They'll pay any­also said that a lot of hotels will thing." often hold room until the last 
minute and then let them go.
The Motel 6 has about half a But call soon. The Motor dozen rooms left for the Clem­Haven is only a six unit motel. son game on Nov. 17, and the The Morris Inn is unable to Quality Inn has about 15 rooms accomocate the public on all left for that same game. home football weekends. rooms And, if Notre Dame fans don't are strictly reserved for Notre mind driving about ten or 1) Dame trustees and advisorymilew to the stadium, they can council members who meet on call Mrs. Andrews at the Motor every home football weekend. 



r--------------­
open Mon. -Thurs. 1 HI 
1 Fri., Sat. 11-11 
I Sun.11:30·8 
I 
. I I I 
r-----mrr1or~rREcORD1
I 
1  In the 100 Center offers 10% off on  II  
II  EVERYTHING with ID & coupon  II  
·I  RECORDS, TAPES,  PARAPHANALIA-.1  

smc sapb movie series presents MEL BROOKS' 


High Anxiety 
Friday & Sat. Sept. 14th -15 at Carrol Hall Smc. 

7.·00, 8.·45, 10.·30 Admission $1.00 


-----'­

The Observer Wednesday, September 12, 1979 -pa,ge 3· 
In undersea fields 



Oil lurks offshore 
BUCHAREST Romania (AP) ­
Oil to sustain the world's 
energy-hungry industrial na­
tions may lie in promising fields 
beneath the waters of the coasts 
of Canada, Spain and Venezue­
la, experts said yesterday 
In one of several papers presented to a seminar of th lOth World Petroleum Con­gress, Canadian Oil economist Neil McNillan estimated Cana­da's Labrador Sea alone will uield 18 billion barrels of oil; twice the estimated size of Alaska's Prudhoe Bay reserve, and four trillion cubic meters of 
natural gas. 
''The Labrador Sea has many of the earmarks of the North Sea,'' McNillan told the semi­nar. "many explorationists think that the tectonic and petroleum successes of the Labrador Sea will in the end be found to match the North Sea.'' 
Some students may lose cafeteria ' jobs 
by}ohn Gruesser 

As many as 50 students may lose their jobs with the Notre Dame Food Serivces Sept. 28 because an abundance of stu­dent workers is forcing Financial Aid Office to adhere to a 1976 policy cha·nge con­cerning aid and jobs which demands that preference _by given to students 'Yho .:::ualify for financial aid. 
The process of tilling out financial aid forms has, tn effect, become a requisite for all University related student employment with the exception of number of highly skilled jobs. -Notre Dame Director of Financial Aid ) oseph Russo said yesterday, "Before the end of the month I hope to go ~ver t~ both Dioing-halls and see where we are with num­bers. If I still have students who can't get hours, needy students, and students who have not gone through the process (of filling out financial aid forms) are taking up these hours, we will have to do some adjusting. I hope we don't have to cut anybody off.'' However, he added that if people were terminated, ''I'm sure there will be hard feelings as a results." 
''New workers who have not gone through the process will be the first to fo," Russo said. But he said he felt a "moral obligation to students who worked last year," and, "they will be the last to be chopped.'' For students who worked last year, even if they did apply for financial help and were denied, Russo said he would, "show flexibility," because, "at least they tried.'' 
Russo affirmed that the Dining halls were the only places of student employment where ter­minations were possible. He attributed the abundance of workers at Food Services not only to the present economic situation, but also to his own office's "aggressive" effort to alert students to the financial aid" opportunities available to them. 
"Sixty to 70 percent of our students would meet the finan­cial aid criteria ifthey would go through the process. Income by itself is not a guideline, other factors rlay a role," said Russo. He listed family size, 
Owen D. Thomas of the American-based Phillips Petro­leum Oil Co. told the seminar the North Sea fields may con­tain even more oil than has beem tapped to date: a specula­tion that will only be proven through more exploration. 
McNdlan, qho works for Aquitaine Oil Co. of Canada, Ltd, predicted most of the oil and gas would come from the shelf around Baffin Island. 
He said drilling of Greenland had so far been disappointing, but there was evidence future exploration might be sucessful. 
Spaii''s delegation said four commercial oil fields has been discovered since 1970 off the Ebro delta on the Mediterra­nean coast, and that larger finds were expected. 
In their paper, the Spaniards predicted Spains's ultimate re­coverable reserv.es stood about 
working status of the parents, financial problems, the number of college students in a family, and the age of the parents as factors determining a student's eligibility for financial assis­tance. 
''It is uncommon for a family to be able to afford Notre Dame education. If your family can't pay the bill (for college) it is a darn good indication that you are eligible for aid. The typical Notre Dame family is large, has more than one child in college, and is generally needy,'' said Russo. 
Concluding his first year as Director of Financial Aid, Russo hopes in future years to elimin­ate the reshuffling that will take place at the end of this month. He said, "I would like to have the paper work done .in the summertime, but this assumes that students will submit forms in the spring. Amd _we did emphasize last spring the im­portance of all this.'' But Russo conceded that there · is a problem at the beginning of the school year when not enough financially qualified students come to work for Food Services and he said. ''we need food on the table.'' 
Russo hopes that by alerting students to the necessity of filling out financial aid form each spring these will be turned in by May and his office can get them back to the student in June. . 
For students interested tn employment but do nor qualify for financial aid, Russo offered three alternatives: off-campus employment, summer employ­ment, and post-graduate employment with a student loan. 
/ 
·Nazz holds 
meeting .for 

possible workers 
There will · be a meeting tomorrow night at 7 p.m. in the Nazz for all those interested in working at the Nazz, or renting the Nazz sound system~this year. For further information, call Jim Geselbracht at 4763 or 7757. 

at 500 million to 1 billion 
barrels, of which 200 million 
barrels have been confirmed. 
Frederico Russomanno, a Venezuelan oil official , said his nation was believed to have some 26 billion barrels of gas and oil which could be recover­ed by conventional means. 
He said Venezuela, one of the major U.S. suppliers and a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Coun­tries, would increase spending for exploration of its continental shelffrom $30 million in 1978 to $355million by 1988. 
''With this • amount of 
investment, the Venezuelan in­
dustry expects to increase the 
proven reserves by discoveries and extensions every year from 140million barrels in 1979 to 840 million barrels in 1988." · The American Petroleum Institute estimates total U.S. proven oil reserves at more than 27 billion barrels, exclud­
ing natural gas supplies. The 
American Petroleum Institute 
estimates Saudi Arabia's 
known reserves at 165.7 billion 
barrels, and the Soviet Unions's 
at about 71 billion barrels, 
although Russia refuses to dis­
close its reserve Figures. 
NDwomens~ 


cross countr_y· holds meetin 
The Notre Dame Women's Cross-country team will hold an organizational meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Farley Hall lounge. For further i.qforma­tion, call Ann at 7994. 



•




fEP RALLY 
-Tl\llRS. NIT( 1:00 ADMI~. 13LVll. ­
-----... ....---;-­

Editorials 
The CLC KeR Proposal 
Responsible Drinking 
Monday night the Campus Life Council passed a proposal which would allow each hall to determine their own policy regarding the use of kegs in official "party" rooms. This proposal must now be approved or rejected by Vice-President for Student Affairs, F John Van Wolvlear. The Observer encourages Van Wolvlear to approve the keg proposal and, in doing so, challenge students to prove their responsibility. 
The University has repeatedly expressed its concern over alcohol abuse. The prevalence of alcohol abuse on the Notre Dame campus has, in the past, been equated with the presence of illegal kegs and uncontrolled parties. By allowing each hall to determin their own pohcy regarding kegs and party rooms in accordance with gmdelins, the Umversity can maintain some degree of control on srudent drinking habits. At the same time, however, the Universtity will eliminate the temptatinn faced by students who view kegs as forbidden fruit. 
The formation of the policies by a combination of the rector, the hall staff, and hall council gives representation to both the Administration and the students. Although the hall staffs consist of students, they are employed by the Office of Student Affairs (OSA) and are (subsequently) expected to uphold University policy. This conbinauon of adminis~.cative and student interest should result in policies which are amenable to both sides, especially if confliqs of interest result tn the need for compromises. 
Most importantly, however, approval of the keg proposal, would challenge srudents to prove they can "drink responsibly.'' Despite any student input into directives concerning alcohol abuse and into policies concerning the use of kegs, it is ultimately the student body's action which will determine rules concerning parties, keggaers and drinking in general. Any directive or policy can be amended in the future if the OSA sees fit. Their best reason for revoking the allowance of kegs would be the abuse of this privilege. 
While The Obserber urges Fr. Van Wolvlear to approve the keg policy, we simultaneously realize the effects that student behavior will have on the continuation of any P.olicy regarding liquor. The Office of Student Affairs has exhtbited a new willingness to work will srudents and listen to their opinion. We encourage them to extend this willingness and give the students a chance to prove themselves. 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
ALL 7HAT TIM& 5H&'S BEEN /101() /..ON6 HA<3 
7£/..L Me, M/55, 
SENDING OAOOY 01/W SUP­ff8UN SINCE ALMOST 
PORT. 8lfT 845/LA/..t..Y. 5H&'5 )V{/V& SEEN SEVeN 
NEVER BfZN ABLE 7lJ OEAL.. 
WITH TH£ FACT THAT 511& JUST SOf(T OF SPLIT ON U5. 
JOANIU YeAR? .. 
I 
I 
\ 
G&c, I .. I ooN'T , 
KNOW WHAT 70 f?JGHT. I'LL.. I fH.I/Jf3RS!JlNIJ. 5AY, MIS5. 7HI5 PL£A513, NIZ/J 5a41/3 cAN I GeT 
/S '5014&7HIN6 CAL../... Me TIM/3 ON YOU A GlAss 

Wednesday, September 12~ 1979 
Can Pro-lifers Justify Force? 

·Thomas P. Flint 
With next month's confer­the taking of innocent life, then wealth or liberty, and one is ence on abortion swiftly ap­I think the two states of affairs able afterwards to ease his proaching, the time is ripe for are morally on par. So if one conscience with the soothingthose who view abortion as would at least consider resort­knowledge that he has at least morally impermissible to begin ing to forceful means in the done something to right a giving careful thought to a child-killing case, should not wrong.quesuon which has (to the best the same be true in the abortion Furthermore, if one is of that 
of my knowledge) rarely been case? distinctly un-Christian disposi­
enunciated let alone seriously Of course, evluating the justi­tion wh1ch all too many pro­considered by those concerned fiability of using force to oppose lifers seem to exhibit, there is about this issue. The question, abortion would be a compli­even the added boon of findingsimply put, is this: Is the cated business. One would first a group of people (namely, person who views abortion as have to consider the general abortionists and their patients)the unjustified taking of inno­moral question as to whether which one can safely and pub­cent human life permitted or the use of force to achieve good licly vilify and annoy without perhaps even obligated to use erids can ever be justified. If feeling guilt. . force if by so doing he can one decides that force is some­So the lure of remaining a decrease the number of abor­times justified, he would then peaceful OJ?ponent ofabortion is tions being performed? have to consider its justifiability surely enucing. Such opposi­
To see the urgency of this in this instance. Here, of tion is painless and requires question, imagine that we were course, bsic questions in politi­little commitment. The same confronted wtth the following cal theory (e.g., "When if ever cannot be said of one who 
situation (which, let me state, is is it permissible for the indivi­(rightly or wrongly) uses force. not of my own invention). Our dual to take up arms against the By doing so, he pits himself nation's highest court declares state?") as well as prudential against the full power of the that the killing of a child less considerations (e.g., "Would state and thus places in jeopar­than three years old cannot be bombing abortion clinics so dy his freedom, his career, his prohibited by the state so long infuriate the public that it possessions, and perhaps his as it is sanctioned by the child's would be counter-productive in life. Since these are things with mother. As a result of this the long run?) would come to which few of us wish to. part, we ruling, some hospitals begin to the fore. are naturally predisposed perform such killings for mo­None of these questions against any action which might thers who wish to dispose of would be easy to answer. But, put them on the line. their excess children, and many for that very reason, I do not Not to recognize this almost clinics are <;>pened which speci­see how those in the pro-life instinctive inclination for what alize in the termination of movement can ignore then. For it is and to make allowances for motherhood. it is by no means obvious that it when reaching a moral eval-' 
Being Christians, we are all or even most sincer pro­uation is to foster the kind of 
appaled by this state of affairs lifers who asked themselves apathy and inactivity--the ''I and begin to use all the these questions would come to don't want to get tnvolved" traditional means at our dispos­the conclusion that the use of syndrome--for which m~n al for legally rectifying this force to reduce the number of m<;>ral leaders so properly e situation. Letters supporting a abortions is illegitimate. ch1ded us. ·• 
constitutional amendment are Let me emphasize, though, It has been nearly seven yers written to congressmen, peace­that it is only discussion of this since the Supreme Cm,Irt's ful demonstrations are held, topic which I see as urgently decision. During those seven educ,ational publications distri­needed. ~erhaps force IS the years, the pro-l~fe movement 
buted, and so forth. After means wh1ch we should employ has employed (wtth rare excep seven years, though, the law if we oppose abortion; perhaps tions) only peaceful means of permitting child-killing has not not. But we will have little combatting abortion. In doing been changed, and there is no chance o.f. reaching. an inte.lli­so, little has been ventured, reaonable prospect of its being gent pos1t1on on this quesuon and little has been gained. But changed in the near future. unless the anti-abortion move­something has been lost: If we really were placed in ment in general and the Catho­millions of human lives. Or so such a situation, I think there is lic core of that movement in at least rro-lifers profess to 
believe. l one is sincere in this little doubt that many if not particular begins to take it belief, I do not see how he canmost of us would begin to seriously. 
avoid at least reconsidering the
reconsider our strategy. More Since a sustained discussion specifically, l think we would of this topic has not taken place, appropriateness of the means begin at least to consider using J think one might well be rash to he is using to attain his goal. 
force to try to decrease the 
resort to the use of force as of ------------­number of innocent lives that now. Indeed, were it not for the are being taken. rather pacific nature of today' s WSND 
·For example, we might de­undergraduate compared to 

cide to bomb or burn our local that of only a few years ago, I apologizeschild-killing clinic. Though would hesitate to write a recognizing that such an action column such as this. Things Fellow Students, by itself would hardly solve a being as they are, though, I We, the staff and 
nationwide problem, we might think it is a question which can management of WSND AM reason that it would at least be given a public hearing in a would like to apologize if we temporarily stop or sharply university setting without en­offended anyone with the con­reduce the number of killings tailing a significant risk of tent of Monday Night's Radio 
taking place in our town, and inciting hasty or ill-considered Free Notre Dame program. We hence might well result in· the action. strive to maintain a professional 
-page4 
J 
saving of a few. children •who I am sure that many pro-lifers quality in all of our program­otherwise would have been who read this column will ming and make every effort to 
OF A SHOCK.. Jo.4N, JR. · THATcwc.. OF IV/17CR?
\ I I 
I 
terminated. So long as we tried remain completely convinced avoid any breach of our respon­
to make sure that no one was tha tforce should not be em­sibilities to you, our listeners. injured by such bombings, we ployed in opposin~ abortion. In the future, we will insure might well feel that our actions They may well be nght. What I that, with your cooperation, this 
were at least morally permiss­would ask above all, though, is disdainful material will never ible and maybe even obligatory. that they be honest with them­be aired again.
selves in evaluating this matter. 
The opponents of abortion 
It is easy to paint posters, sign 

should have little trouble draw­Sincerely yours, ing the analogy between this petitions, and organize jim O'Brien imaginary situation and the marches. One risks neither General Manager actual world. Ifabortion truly is . one's life nor one's personal WSND AM-FM Radio Stations 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board 
The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Features Editor ....... K. Connelly represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales Sports Editor ...........Mark Perry opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ...... M. Onufra~ 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewis Business Manager .....Steve Odland newspaper published by students of able to all members of the community, News Ediror ............ Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan the Umversity of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News Editor .......... .Mike Shields, Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is Saint Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ......Bob Rudy necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor ............ M. Brassil Controller .......... Kevin Manion 
_The Observer_ 


• 
The Observer 
Hope for refugees 
Sorin Hall to assist 'boat ·person~ 
by Michael Onufrak 
Senior Copy Editor 
Fr. David Porterfield, rector 
of Sorin hall, yesterdar announ­
ced that his hall wil begin a 
commitment ot "work closely" 
with Dr. and Mrs. Albert 
LeMay when they begin to 
sponsor ~ "boat person" in 
the commg weeks. "Boat 
people" are homeless refugees 
from Indochina who are strand­
ed at sea because no other 
n_a~ion will accept them as 
ctttzens. 
Mrs. MarciaLeMay said yes­terday she learned of the dio­cesan project through her invol­vement with the Christian Ser" vice Commission of Sacred Heart Parish. She expects "two male refugees to be arriving at her home in the next few weeks." 
According to Sorin Hall Pres­ident Bart Henderson, "Sorin will have a group of volunteers to assist the LeMays by helping to transport, tutor, and general­ly aclimate the refugees." Mrs. LeMay said this assist­ance would be especially wel­come. 
Porterfield had originally in­tended for his hall to provide living space for one of the refugees. Due to anticipated fricuon from transfer students waiting to get on campus, however, this plan was scrap­ped. ' 
"I think this is a worthwhile project, one that will prove to be particularly beneficial ex-
School of 
Engineers change phone 
numbers
...,,_,) 
The School of Engineering has announced the following departmental number changes in conjunction with the reloca­tion of offices in the new engineerii?g ,b~ilding: Aero­space engmeenng, 4286; chem­ical engmeering, 4316; civil engineering, 4413; electrical engineering, 4222; college of-engineering, 4241; and mechanical engineering, 4286. 
LoKan volunteers to meet 
There will be a general organization meeting for all Logan Center volunteers tomor­row night at 7 p.m. in the 
• library auditorium. Those un­able to attend the meeting can get further information by coming to the Logan Center at 9 
a.m. Saturday. 

Attention all Observer Reporters : 


Please pick up any of your stories you would like to have 
from last year by 
Thurs. Sept. 13th. 
1 


1 
' 
1 
1 1 1 
1 

long distance calls from the privacy of your 
room, and at direct-dial rates. That's a lot 
easier and more economical than any other 
way. Besides, there's no waiting in line, and 
you keep the change. To get your STUDENT 
BILLING CARD just call 237-8182. 
. @ ln~iana Bell 
perience for those hall residents who choose to participate," Porterfield added. 
According to Mrs. LeMay, her family will not be the first area family to sponsor refu­gees. 
''There is already a family of seven living in the basement of Prof. KevinMcDonnell. '' Mc1 Donnell is a philosophy profes­sor at Saint Mary's. 
The refugee family is headed by Nguyen Ban Hot (pronoun­ced Wrn Van Hoe(. They emigrated from a small sea­coast town in southern Viet Nam. 
According to McDonnell, ''The family has been with us for the past four weeks and their adjustment to American life has gone extremely well. 
They are all learning English, . the husband went for a job interview this morning, and four of the children are already enrolled in South Bend public schools." 
Not only has the adjustment gone well for the refugee family, but McDonnell's family has benefited as wei.. "You don't realize how the rest of the world looks upon your own culture until you see these people react to their first esca­lator ride or their first spaghetti dinner," he commented. · 
McDonnell added that ehir reaction has been one not only of amazement, ''but also of humor.'' He said his sponsored family will remain in his home for '' twomore weeks at the most.'' 
... this card will let you call long distance from your room faster and at less cost than any other way. 
If you live in a residence hall, making a long distance call can be a hassle. 
You either have to call collect (and that costs extra), or wait in line at a pay phone with a couple of pounds of change in your pocket. 
Well, there's a way around all that. Get your 
free STUDENT BILLING CARD from Indiana 
Bell. A Student Billing Card lets you make 


Tables and chairs to move, speakers and micropi found ... people start wanderin~ in, wondering workers pick up their pace anu urge their visi1 minutes--make yourself comfortable.'' 
Tables set. Lights lit. Candles burning. Peopl< stairwell as more people find their seats. After n the ''fruits of thetr labor'' ... Rich starts with sor the audience is his. More people wander in--no place, and listen. The Nazz hostess takes a quic the stage to a round of applause ... no time for an nn stage--Rich Stevenson and Dan Berenato, a More people wander in ... some leave, but still no wall and breathes a sigh of relief--things are gc 
The duo plays ... and plays ... and plays! The Cro• sore throats and fingers. One more encore--a1 everyone sits in the dark, yet continues to list< a.m.--The audience slowly begins to filter out. , randlt"s to collect, equipment to pur away, and ar some, relaxing for many, and fun for everyone. 
Jlfi()l()"lct1Jii~ I lct,()tJt ll, 1\cttl~ W1lttt?r ()' 1I 


.,... ~. 


to be set up, lights to be lit, matches to b( thtngs.are running a bit late. The Naz• to take a seat..."we'll only be a few mon 
......uu:'!'.· Rich Prezioso tunes his guitar in th< preparation, the Nazz s~aff is ready to e,njo) Fogelberg, adds some Jackson Browne, and1 left. They stand wherever they can find ~ t ... l50 people by 10 o'clock! Rich leave~ has a party to. go to. Next act come~ 
that soon has the audience singing along. seats. The Nazz hostess leans against th( well. 
won't let them leave though they complain oJ the power goes out. The show goes on a~ 
.. it's been too good a show to leave now. 1 stragglers help clean up ... tables to move night comes to a close. It's been hectic fo1 
been, and will continue to be, the NAZZ 
J()lill ..~(()1 
(()llllt?lll' 
ll' Alit?lr-1 

0 

0
l-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiliiliii~c •·~"'''~-" •:. '> ·~"' • ..
\ '• • 

The Observer Wednesday, September 12, 1979 -p~e 8, 
St. Mary's Board of Governance meets 
by Magie Brassil Saint Mary's News Editor 
At the Board of Governance 
meeting last night, Martha 
Boyle, Judicial Commissioner, 
announced that the Judicial 
Board application deadline has 
been changed to today at 7 p.m. 
The processing of applications 
will begin at 9 and announce­
ments of appointments will be 
made later in the week. 
The reason for the change was due to a lack of response from the student body, Boyle said. The response so far with the new deadline is much greater, she added. 
Treasurer Sheila Wixted re­ported that from the Student Government fee, $750 will be allotted to each class and $2.25 per student to each hall and off-campus treasuries. These funds are put toward activities sponsored by each group. 
Wixted also announced that forms for clubs and campus organizations for Student Gov­ernment allocations will be available in the Student Activi­ties office Monday. The dead­line for the applications is Sept. 
26. Allocations will be made at the first student assembly meeting after that date. 
Founder's Day, to be held Oct. 14, is still in the plannin~ stages. Co-chairmen Adri Tn­gianni and . Katie ,Conley . ~re planning thts year s acttvtttes around the theme, "Never un­derestimate the power of a Saint Mary's Woman." Plans are being made for a formal reception in O'Laughlin, helium balloon rides, an audio-visual presentation about Saint Mar­y's and a late; night mass. . 
This year ts the 135th annt­versary of the founding of Saint Mary's. Due to a miscalculation in last year's celebration, the 1978 Founder's Day was also titled the 135th anntversary. 
Freshmen Council advtsors Katie Conley and Sheila Me, Gahan have recieved a god response from the Freshmen Class for petitions for the Freshmen Council. Elections have been pushed back to Oct. 3. 
Student Government made a substantial_profit from ''Second City,'' whtch performed last Saturday. Mary Ellen Connelly, Social Commissioner, could not release an exact figure since not all expenses have been recieved but she termed it "a great sucess. " 
It was noted that the Junior Class lost $70 because of can­cellation of the "Booze Cruise" scheduled for last Saturday. The cancellation was due to lack of response from the Junior Class. Susie Ecklecamp, junior class/resident, calculated they woul have lost $180 if they had held the event with the number of students who had bought tickets. 
Chip Dornbach, vice-presi­dent of Academic Affairs, an­nounced that the Speaker Ser­ies will begin Monday in Carroll Hall. The first speaker will be writer Dave Toma, from whose books the "Toma" and "Bar­etta" TV series have been taken. All Speaker Series lec­tures are free and open to the o 
the public. Other lectures are being coordinated with the halls for ouring the year.
Dornbach also reported that yesterday was the fast day for 

'Students to pick UP. their books not sold at the used books sale. The left-over books will be taken to Pandora's and sold. 
Students were gtven a week to pick up their books, but many are stiilleft. Dornbach said the money will be given to a charity. She said die used book sale was successful and will run again next semester. 
The only busioness voted on was whether the Board of Governance would act as a channel to the Babysitting Ser­vice. The Career Develooment 
Office had asked if the "'Board could handle tht.' names of students wanting babysittingi.Qbs in the Soutl1 Bend are~. The Board voted down the 
prQPosal.

The unanimous feeling of the Board was it was not their 
responsibility . J;tor. could they
take responstbtltty tn the e'V._nt of student negligence in the job. 
Mud Sharks 'secede' from Stanford Hall 
by]ohn Cassidy 

Claiming that ''all students are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are . Life, Liberty, and the pursutt of Hap pines --Partytng,'' sec­tion 3 North-South of Stanford Hall formed a new Socialist Republic Monday night and promptly seceded from the hall, forming the new Mudshark Republic.'' 
Ex-section leader and newly elected President of the Mud­sharks John Torres stated that ''The Republic is based on a new principle of socialism,'' that being ' 'Socialists dedicated to a better social life." The secession was brought on, according to Torrse, "by the ridiculous new University party guidelines. " Torres stated, "We're not kids any more and we're tired of being treated like them.'' 
Torres' answer in response­to the question of what will the Republic's guidelines _be was, "What guidelines? We're having an Ethnic party this weekend with a Mextcan theme in the former section. 
Members of the Mudsharks who wished to remain anony­mous, said, ''tremendous, es­pecially since the party room tsn't finished and who knows when it will be:'' 
Present at the•section meeting when the secession took olace 
were Assistant Rector Brother Rod Struble and Stanford Hall President Kevin Jordan. Jordan said, ''I laughed when I heard of the secession. It'll probably blow over in a few days. we do have a real problem in regards to the University party guidelines. We don't have a party room now because funding for the room ran out before it was finished. We are trying to modify the guidelines and make them more lenient since we do have a unique situation.'' But, as Torres said, "He had no influence over our actions and as for Brother Rod (Struble), we're not inti­midated by him." Torres said that, "the Mud­sharks have formed cabinet positions which have been fil­led. We don't discriminate. Anyone who wants a position can have it." Curt Hench, the new Chief of Staff, said, "If anyone is interested in joining the Mud­sharks they should call me at 8716. We are open to the public." The new Secretary of Defense,
Rich Schweiger, startea me ball rolling Monday night with fireworks raids on Keenan, Lewis,Sorin, Walsh, Dillon, and Alumni Halls in celebration of the Mudsharks' new, inde­pendence. 
Curt Hench state in conclu­sion, "We're not out to cause 
alumnt hall 
presents 
\ 

an open-air concert featuring 
DANCER 
tontqht -7:30 p·m· 
Alumni Courtyard 
BURN'S RENT-ALLS 2 Cu. FT. Refrig. $55 per year 
·············~·············•••••+•
also TV's -~tearnex Carpet Oeaner 10% off with student ID 

Floor Care Equipment 
259­


Securit..Y Department initiates ne'W program 
by Ann Hesburgh Students will also become more aware of aspects of the This fall marks the start of a Security Department that are new l?rogram initiated by ~he often taken for granted. In Secunty Department to tm­addition to its escort service, prove relations with the stu­Security transports students to dents. Its main purpose, ac­the hospital, checks parked cars cording to Security Director Joe for unlocked doors and win­Wall, is to replace the negative dows, turns off headlights, feelings present on both sides provides jump-starts for stalled with better attitudes. · cars and offers other services 
free of charge.
The program was originally designed to acquaint the female students with safety precau­tions on campus. It was extend­ed at the suggestion of the 
Alumni
Student Union to include all students, and will be taking effect sometime in the near future . 
sponsors 

Security officers ,will be avail­able ·to attend hall council 
concert 

meetings at the various dormi­
Alumni Hall will sponsor an
tories on campus. to answer 
open-air concert in the Alumni­
questions and become more 
Dillon courtyard tonight at 7
familiar with the students and 
p.m. The Dancer, a Chicago
their problems. Plans are also 
rock group, will perform.
being made for students to 
Admission is free to all Notre
spend some time at the gates to 
Dame-Saint Mary's students.
experience first hand the diffi­
In case of rain, the event will be 
culties involved in regulating 
held in Stepan Center.
campus entrances. 


• 
c 0 
10
-.. " .r z"'" 10 
<<{
-.. ~0 
-
~z • 
J:<{ 
::!z
-
:z:•" :to 
&. •.. oz zw 
CQ 
O::z: 
• ·~­
:::l
1 ~ 

The Observer Wednesday, September 12', 1979 -~ page9~ 
Reports of continued unrest in Uganda today 
by Dan Letcher Senior StaffReporter 
''There is no peace in Uganda yet," Reverend Em­manuel W amala, the Ugandan Vicar General, said recently. According to Wamala, when he left for the United States in June, his country lacked ade­·quate security and looting of stores and neighbors was com­mon place. 
Wamala, who is at Notre 
Dame participating in the Reli­
~ious Leaders Program, note~; 
'Our government 1s not yet m full control--it lacks the confi­dence of the peo~;>le. '' 
The plight of h1s countrymen remains Wamala's greatest worry. ''The behavior of Chris­tians during the critical months of war has shown that the christian message has not yet sunk deep into us," he said. The confused state of affairs greatly disturbs Ugandan Cath­olic Church officials, according · to Wamala. 
''These officials have been naive enough to believe that in 100 years, a civilization can become wholly christianized," 
• • • WSND 
[continued from page 2] the title (of Monday's show) 
were  remarkablr,  similar  to  
last year's show.  '  
O'Brien  said  he  ordered  a  

six-second tape delay system which was mstalled at the station following last year's incident, to be put in oper­ation shortly after 11:30 Mon­day night, about 30 minutes after the show started. 
O'Brien explained that he took his action after noticing the increasing amount of obsceni­ties being used by callers. Due to technical problems and the absence of an engineer, however, O'Brien said the sys" tern did not take effect until approximately 11:50 p.m. "The D.]. tried (to censor comments)," remarked Mike Wamala observed. Wamala said the biggest challenge to the clergy in Uganda is to drive the message of justice and christian love home to the people of his homeland. · 
Organized, systematic cate­chism campaigns for adults and children wdl be launched in an effort to reinforce basic christ-· ian doctrines, according to Wa mala. He added that these caJ;Dpaigns will teach his countrymen to deal with real­life situations. 
Yuhas, chief engineer, "If somebody said something, they were cut off, but by then it was too late --what can 
you at you."  do, they  just throw  it  
"I  apologize  to  anyone  we  

offended," O'Brien said. "We're really working on our reputation, and I hope students don't think this is really what WSND is like." 

An archetitect's sketch ofone ofthe L-shaped residence halls to be constructed on the northeast quadrangle ofthe University ofNotre Dame campus. The view is to the east, with high-rise Grace Tower to the left and a portion ofthe second restdence hall in the right foreground. The dormiton.es will hold 250 students each, enabling an increase of500 in the University's undergraduate student body of6, 700. The new enrollment places will be for women, who now number about 1,550, but it has not yet been dectded whether men or women wzll occupy the new restdences. The results ofbtds out this month will determine whether both structures wtll be built simultaneously, but at least one is expected to be for 
... Crew 
[continued from page 1] 
is concerned about a repeti­tion of this incident and is afraid someone might get hurt." He explained, however. that practices will have to be moved to afternoons. 
''The minimum length of a workout is 45 minutes," he said. "If we start at 7, by the time we put the boats away it will be 8, and a lot of crew members have 8 o'clock classes. " 
Graham said the club hoped to contact the man to "smoke a peace pipe.'' 
• • . Mud Sharks 
[co11tinued from page 5] 
problems. We're still members of the University. We just want a better one (University)." 
There had also been a re­port of mass parietal violations 
by  some  15  girls  in  cele­ 
bration.  Torres had  no  com­ 
ment on this accusation.  

Other Stanford Hall Resi­dents' early o~;>inions of the Mudsharks' acnons have been unfavorable. However, an un­identified informant at the time of this writing said that other 
sections in the hall are  ''very  
likely''  to  follow  the  Mud­ 
sharks' lead.  

_featuring Hotdogs, Hamburgers Beer, Soda 
Thutsday, Sept. 13 12:15-1:30 in the Beet Gatden 
inside if it rains 

Applications being accepted for the positi-on of 
FREE UNIVERSITY 
DIRECTOR 
applications available from the 
Student Union Secretary. Interviews will be Mon.,Sept. 17 
Those interested in applying for the job of 
JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND CHAIRPERSON 
STOP IN OR CALL Student Activities 7308 by Friday, Sept. 14th 
Have LUNCH AT at the 
SENIO·R BAR 
Roll aut tba Barrel I 
I I 


restdency next fall. Mishawaka contractor H. DeWulf is now p_reep;~a:n:·n~g~th~e~'s~t:'te~·--~-....:!~!!~!!=!!!!!!~!!~~~~~~~~~!~~
i:: :12
6 • • • • • • 

• the nazz pResents. • 
thURSOay 9/13 11 :45-1pm 
LaFortune Lunchtime Concert featuring Doug Stringer 9-12pm OPEN BLUES NIGHT 
~RJ0ay 9/14 9:30-10:30 €RIC BaRth & Wally t1mp€Rman 
10:30 -?maqtc with Mark Davis 
·Sat 9/15 9-10 Dan Keusal 10-? Rich Prezioso 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, September 12, 1979 -page 10 
(continued from page 12J 
probably one of the two or three (~gainst .~isconsin) were ablr. as fine as we've seen in a on film, and they recognize most fundamentally sound dtsastrous. whtle. They have two tailbacks they're one of the toughest teams.'' "We must improve greatly that run with power, and they teams we'll face this year," Donahue said the Bruin's chief defensively to be ready for come out with the play action Young said. "There are no strengths are in the kicking UCLA. The kicking game has pass. They have an offense breathers, and UCLA, as our game, the intensity of play and been a question mark for us. In that, personnel-wise, is 
players know, should be much the offensive line. excellent.''
the first game, I thought it
tougher than Wisconsin." "Defensively, I think there's Herrmann, who was named
passed the test, although we
The Boilermakers hammered no question about it, we're not 
still don't have what I would
Wisconsin's Badgers 41-20 last the same caliber we were a year week behind quarterback Mark ago." call an excellent kicking Herrmann's four touchdown Young said he was pleased game." passes and 291 passing yards. with the Boilermakers' offen­UCLA, Young said, has "a
• • .Doubts 
The 6-foot-5 Junior has Dona­sive game except for seven very fine blocking line ... prob-hue concerned, but not exclu­fumbles, five of them lost to the sively. Badgers. 
''The difficult thing about ''Herrmann had his best game Purdue is they're a well bal­as far as throwing the football,'' • anced team. They're not just Young said. "From the stand­throwing team," said Donahue. point of line protection, we ~ot [continued from page 12) 
''There's no question in my a good job there. Our runnmg team is a little different. These
mind they are extremely well must iJ?proye, and the-turn­
players are hungry. They are
coached :md well disciphned ... overs m our running game 
tired of hearing about how 
ACROSS  45  -Kodesh  member  
1 Father 5 Cognizant  46  (Holy Ark) Country  19 22  Destiny French  
10  Org. for creatures  47  letters Mild  23  estate Divulges  
14  Has debts  48 "Take Me-"  24  Mama or  
15 16  Reviewed heartily Break from  49 51  Simpletons Potter's need  25  Peggy Certain disbelief  
17  a habit In an erect fashion  52 58  Occurring together Oil cartel  27 28  Is overly fond of Influencing  
20 21 22  Grain sorghum Religious images Decipher  59 60 61 62  Separated Painting subject English spa Scandina­ 30 "-Stop" 31 House wing 33 Write 34 Stand­36 Teachers'  
24  Early king of France  63  vian TV trouble  37  org. Discover  
26  Military guard chiefs: abbr.  DOWN 1 Soda  38 43  Contend Meter reader  
All Rights Reserved  29 30 31 32 33 34 35 39 40 41 42 43  Gossips With­breath "Wilderness were Para­dise-.. -Maria Up or cart "Oroy -" Region of dams Devoured "Who-?" Greek lettl!r Diva Gluck Quebec peninsula  2 Reverence 3 Certain attract or 4 Salad molds 5 Florence's river 6 Bundle 7 Bird: pre!. 8 Item for Julia Child 9 Drew out 10 It drew Lohengrin's ship 11 I, for one 12 Presiden­tial nick­name 13 Whatever  44 45 47 48 50 51 52 53 54 55 56  City in Syria Fred and Gracie Buzzer Department in France Design on glass Ms. Millett Corn unit --locka, Fla. Row Travel sys-terns: abbr. Edible Japanese plant  
18  Fraternal  57  Use thread  


Molarity by Michael Molinelli 



ARMY ROTC PROVIDES 
: merit scholarships-up to $20,000 Ill!leadership development E management training
*
:adventurei employment opportunity 
Graduate from Notre Dame as an Army Officer 
CAll( 219) 283-6264 
Ass~ciated Press Big Ten Of­fensive Player 01 the Week, said the Bruins "certainly have great athletes. They're going to really pose a problem for
, 
us . 

• • Wake up 
much trouble Notre Dame has had getting off to a strong start in past seasons. They don't like it when their own student newspaper rates them behind Michtgan. They want to win very badly, and I'm betting they will. 
Call me a dreamer, but I'm already looking forward to USC week, when the no. 1 Trojans face no. 2 Notre Dame. 1 am thinking about a Sugar Bowl confrontation with Alabama for the national title. 
Somebody wake me up, quick) Or better yet, why not come along and dream a bit with me. 
...Twent..Y 
(continued from page 12] 
The Sooners received two first-place votes and 1,068 points while the other No. 1 ballot went to Texas, which drew 962 points. 
Purdue, which topped Wisconsin 41-20, Jumped from sixth to fifth with 931 points while Michigan, a 42-7 winner over Northwestern, advanced from seventh to No. 6 with 898 points. 
Penn State, No. 5 in the preseason poll, was idle last Saturday and dropped to sev­enth place with 823 points. • No. 8 Nef}rasj(a with 742 and No. 9 Notre Dame with 644 also idle. Michigan State defeated Illinois 33-16 and remained No. 10 with 594 points. 
The three newcomers to the Top Twenty are Ohio Sate, North Carolina State, and Southern Methodist. Ohio State stopped Syracuse 31-8, N.C. State downed East Carolina 34-20 and SMU beat Rice 35-17. 
The preseason Second Ten consisted of Georgia. Mtssouri, Stanford, Texas A&M, Wash­ington, Houston, Pitt, Arizona State, Florida State and Arkan­sas. 


The Observer-SportsBoard WedneSday, September 12, 1979 -page 11 
---.~ ...-...... -........,L __ • 




Wednesday, September 12, 1979 -page 12 
~ 
Already on TV 
Soccer shoots for notoriety 

ND still 9th 
USC stays atop Twenty 
I 
I asked a group of freshmen yesterday to name Notre dame's "top five" sports, the first five to pop into the head. The results were predictable: 

1) football, 2) basketball, 3) hockey, 4) Bengal Bouts, and 5) interhall football. The results were pretty much unanimous. Then one of them said, "Hey, what about soccer?" 
Yea, how about soccer? 

You probably know that soccer is a varsity sport at Notre Dame. You might also know that the team lost to Cincinnati last Sunday, 1-0. But there is a lot more that you might know, things that a true Irish "sports" fan should be interested in. 
In the fall of 1977, Dr. Richard Hunter took over the soccer club-when it was granted varsity status and set out to develop a program of national caliber. So, ofcourse, the team started out with a couple of losing seasons while the program got off the ground, right? Wrong. 
Hunter's men tied their first game, then lost their second-that was that. They then set out on a winning tear that would become the longest streak in college soccer before it was over, an almost unbelievable 26 straight. 
The winning ways carried over into the second season. After finishing the inaugural campaign 16-1-1, the Irish took their first nine games of '78 by a composite score of 60-6. Included were wins over Michigan and Purdue, both victims of 
Southern California, a 21-7 winner over Texas Tech in its season opener las Saturday, maintained its hold on first place in The Associated Press first regulat-season veekly col­lege football poll Tuesday. . Southern Cal, chosen No. 1 10 the preseason poll, attracted 45 first-place votes and 1,222 of a possible 1,240 points from a nationwide panel of 62 sports writers and broadcasters. 
Alabama, which routed Georgia Tech 30-6 in its opener, landed 14 first-place ballots and 1, 172 points to hold onto the No.2 spot, No. 3 Oklahoma and fourth-rated Texas, who have yet to play this season, also stayed 10 the same positions. 
[continued on page 10] 
.-----i.PiiinwEN1v____l 
: Here are the top 20 teams in the Associated: 1Press College Football poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, records and total 
1 1 
1
I pomts. I 
11. Southern California (45) 1-Q-0 1,2221 
j2.Aiabama(14) 13-Oklahoma-(2) 
14. Texas (t) 
5. Purdue Is. Michigan 
17. Penn State 1B. Nebraska 
19. Notre Dame 
10. Michigan State
1
tt. Missouri I t2. Georgia 
113. 
Houston 

114. 
Washington 


IJ~: ~i~~;u~~~
I 
17. Arkansas ItB. Florida State lt9. North Carolina State 
120. Southern M~thodist 
t-0·0 t,1721 
o-o-o t ,068 
o-o-o 962
1 t-o-o 93t 1 t-o-o 8981 o-o-o 8231 o-o-o 7421 o-o-o 644 t-D-0 594 
1 t-D-0 5751 o-o-o 52t1 t·D-0 4771 t·O·O 4441 
ll~ ~~II 
o-o-o 24t t-o-o t70 I t-D-0 t631 t-D-0 ttB.I 
the previous season as well. 
. After just two seasons the Irish had compiled an overall record of 3 7-4-1. The schedule did include ll few patsies but a number of top notch opponents as well. In a remarkably short time, the program had gained national status_ In 1978 the team led the nation with 116 goals. The National Soccer Association and the National Soccer Foundation voted Hunter the 1978 College Coach of the Year for "outstanding coachtng by a new member of the association. 11 But there were still many bumps in the road ahead. 
Boilermakers red hot 
Donahue doubts UCLA's chances 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) There's no way UCLA can stop Purdue offensively, says Bruins Coach Terry Donahue. "The thing we'll have to do is just contain them." 
Wake up and start dreaming 
Dreamer, you're nothing but a dreamer .... 
---Supertramp 
The start of the football season is usually an 
exciting time on the Notre Dame campus. 
People all over are talking about the opening 
game, wondering how high the Irish could finish 
by the end of the season, what bowl game 
they might be traveling to after Christmas, and 
how much money they can get for their extra 
tickets. 
At least that's the way it usually is. 
Talk arQund campus is a bit different this year. 
"How bad do you think Michigan is going to 
beat us this Saturday?" "We'll be lucky to stay 
over .500 this year." "I wonder who we'll pla>:: 
in the Garden State Bowl?" "We'll be lucky if 
we make it that far with our schedule." 
It seems that a lot of people think this might be 
a year to forget as far as Irish football is 
concerned. 
But I'm a dreamer. I'm the type of person who thinks that world-wide peace 1s near, that gas prices will be going down soon, that the Cubs are going to be in the World Series before I turn 
25. No matter how 'bad things mi~ht seem on the surface, I will try to look a the htgh points of a situation and remain optimistic. 
I just have this certain feeling about the Notre Dame football team. I know that Joe Montana, Bob Golic, Dave Huffman, etc., are gone, that the Irish are hurt badly by injuries, and that we may be facing the toughest schedule in the nation, but I'm still very excited about the upcoming season. 
Mark 
Perry 


There are reasons for my optimism. I can point to Vagas Fer~uson, who just might be the top running back 1n the country this year. Or I could talk about the solid offensive line that Vagas is running behind, led by Tim Huffman and Tim Foley. Or I could talk about Dave Waymer, as many pro scouts already are. 
But these players are expected to be good this year. The reason I am so high on Notre Dame is because of the rest of the team. There are players coming up to start that you might not have heard much about in the past few years. Players like Dean Masztak, who just might be better than Ken MacAfee. Or Joe Gramke and John Hankerd, who impressed me last year with their play on defense in relief roles. Bob Crable, Bernie Adell, John Scully, Steve Cichy, and the list goes on. These names might not be that familiar to you, but these players may be the All-Americans of the future. Although people have been J?Utting him down all fall, I th10k Rusty Lisch 1s a w10ning quarterback. And Dan Devine is a winning coach, a quiet man who still knows how to inspire a team at the right time, and may just have a few surprises up h1s sleeve. 
And most of all, the spirit of this Notre Dame 
[continued on page 10] 


Michael 
Ortman 
The ultimate goal of an NCAA tournament bid 
had not yet been reached. To gain more 
recognition for his program, Hunter has 
scheduled the t~mghest pos~ible opponents for 
the 1979 campatgn. Go10g 10 to last Sunday's 
opener, the Irish faced a grueling 29 games in 
just 60 days, including nationally-ranked Indiana 
(#2) and Loyola-Baltimore (#6). 
Hunter's coaching philosophy combines a close personal relationship with his players alon~ with one of the nation's toughest condiuoning programs. As his players run their 4,396th lap of the afternoon, Hunter asks, "Are you having fun?" 
"W_e love it, Rich," they respond as they gasp for atr. 
Sunday's game exhibited almost everything the team had worked for, with one big exception-a win. The well-conditioned Irish continually applied pressure on the Cincinnati goalie, outshooting the Bearcats, 25-9. The ball just didn't seem to want to go in. 
Few of the 500-plus fans left disappointed. They had seen tremendous effort by Notre Dame's finely tuned machine. As many of the visiting players admitted, "We were lucky to win." 
The Irish should get right back on their horse again tonight against Loyola-Chicago (8:00 p.m. Cartier Field) for a ride that will take them in front of television cameras this fall (the Entertainment and Sports Programming Net­work has bought the nghts to the Indiana game _here and the Villanova game in Philadelphia) and hopefully again in the spring in the NCAA tournament. 
Purdue, now ranked fifth in point we'd like to be," Donahue the nation, rolled over Wiscon­said Tuesday in Los Angeles sin last week in its season during a telephone conference opener. UCLA, which lost its with reporters in Indiana and first game to Houston, takes on California. the Boilermakers Saturday Purdue Coach Jim Young, night in Los Angeles. however, sr>eaking from West 
"It's going to be extremely Lafayette, refused to take the hatd tor us to compete against unranked Bruins lightly. Purdue. We're a very young 1 'Our players have seen UCLA team, and certainly not at the [continued on page 10] 
Sports Briefs 
Rally to promise 'Blue is Thru' 
The first Notre Dame pep rally of the football season will be held this Thursday night on the steps of the Adminstration Building at 7P.M. Guest speakers at this special Michigan rally will be Irish Head Coach Dan Devine and tri-captains Vagas Ferguson, Tim Foley, and Dave Waymer. ABC-1V will be filming the rally for showing prior to Saturday's telecast, so "Hi Mom!" signs are recommended. This week's cheer: "The Blue Is Thru!" 
Karolyn Rose files for divorce 
CINCINNATI (AP) Karolyn Rose filed for divorce Tuesday from Philadelphia Phillies first baseman Pete Ro_se. The _sult filed in Hamilton County Court of Domestic Relauons charges gross neglect of duty and asks for a split of all property plus reasonable alimony. The couple has two children Fawn 14 and Pete Jr., 9. Mrs. Rose, contacted at their Ci~cinnat'i h~me, said she would have no comment. The couple separated for several months during the 1978 baseball season and have separated again. Both are Cincinnati natives. They were married January 25, 1964. 
Men's volleyball to organize 
The Notre Dame men's volleyball club will hold an organizational meeting tonight at 7:30pm in the North Dome of the Athletic and Convocation Center. All those interested in joining the team are urged to attend. 





