
The Irish Ext-ra -pages ·9~ 12 


Students in Iran reject 
P.L.O. negotiation bid 
(AP) -Iran~an students h~lding the .U.S. Em~as~y in Tehran 
rejected a btd by the Palesttf?e Ltber~tton Orgamzauon yesterd~y 
to negotiate freedom for thetr Amencan. hostages, Tehran radto 
said. In Lebanon, a second attempt to setze a U.S. Embassy was 
reported foiled. . , . . 
In a grisly display of the Iraman students anu-Amencan zeal, a 
protester set himselfafire outside the Tehran embassy, Iran's ~ars 
news agency said. He was later reported near death 10 a hospttal. 
The students meanwhile, released what they said was embassy 
cor.respondenc'e showing that U.S. officials had planned last 
summer to allow Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi into the United 
States permanently. 
In Betrut, Lebanese security sources said the PLO thwarted a 
plan by 40 armed Iranians to storm the U.S. Embassy tn the 
Lebanese capital. The sources said the alleged plotters were under 
house arrest in a Palestinian refugee camp in southern Lebanon. 
Spokesmen for.the PLO and the U.S. Embassy in Beir~t said they 
had no informatton on the reported takeover plan, and tt could not 
be conflirmed elsewhere. 
It was announced that President Carter, overseeing U.S. efforts to free the hostages, had cancelled his planned trtp to Canada Friday and Saturday. 
The students said Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, s~preme leade.r of Iran's Islamic republic, and his secretive Revolutto~ary Councll backed them in rebuffing the two-man PLO medtatton team, Tehran radio reported in a broadcast monitored in Kuwait. 
The cast of ''Stop the World, I Want to Get Off!'' prepares lor opening nigh~. Their first
They would not ''open talks with any~ody or accept any 
performance is at 8:00 this evening in Washington Hall. [Photo by Beth Prezzo). 
mediation '' the students said, until the Umted States met their main dem~nd -sending the exiled shah back to Iran for trial. PLO officials at the United Nations and in Washington denied mediation efforts had been rejected. Hatem Husseini, head of the 
Iranian citizen
organization's Washington information office, said Iranian officials"welcomed our views" during "extensive consultaions in Tehran." 
Diplomats around the world continued to work feverishly to try to 


ND student discusses Khomeini 
defuse the explosive situation. Secretary of State Cyrus Vance by Mary Fran Callahan shall remain nameless said he blood,'' the student explained. 
thanked ''many governments and others'' for their efforts. 
StaffReporter wholeheartedly supports the Believing that Khomeini does Vance, speakmg before television cameras in Washi~gt~~· did Khomeini regime and believes not approve of the recent not name the PLO, but said the United States was followmg every The recent flood of wire ser­that the American newspapers seizure of American hostages,avenue available to secure their early and safe release." 
vice copy from Iran, echoing the are sensationalizing Khomei­the student said he is "one 
Algerian sources said that hard-line Arab country had joined in rapid development of the esca­ni's recent comments as repor­hundred percent sure that Kho­the efforts, presumably through its embassy in Tehran. The lating crisis, has provoked ted by the wire services. .meini does not approve of the sources refused to elaborate, saying, "Secrecy is essential if the strong reactions from all over ''I talked to my father in Tehran recent seizure of American efforts are to succeed." ~' . the world. two days ago, and Khomeini hostages, the student said he is 
French officials said the nine-nation European Common-Market · Last night an Iranian citizen said on the radio that he does "one hundred percent sure that 
Khomeini will change his neu­was in contact with Iranian authorities. studying at Notre Dame who not want to see any kind of tral stand." Khomeini's lar­
gest and most powerful political 
support comes from the Iranian 
student class. 
"He will eventually order the 
students to release the hosta­
ges. He will have to convince

Derailed tankcars release toxic fumes 
them that the U.S. will not return the shah and that theyINWOOD, Ind. (AP) -Twen­methacrylic acid, ethyl acrylate, hours." those evacuated would not be will have to release the Ameri­ty -two tank cars of a 34-car isobutyl alcohol and butyl cello­Families within a mile radius allowed to return to their homes cans," the student said.

Conrail freight train derailed solve. Another tanker contain­were evacuated as a precaution. before then. 
When asked to explain why he yesterday, unleashing toxic in~ petroleum naphtha also Most were staying with friends thought Khomeini was acting inchemical fumes that sickened might be leaking, he said. or relatives, although churches Police said several railroad a nuetral fashion, he said thatseveral motorists and prompted Smith said all the chemicals and schools in the area were ties a_pparently caught fire after although the Ayatollah has notthe evacuation of 35 families in are used either as coating or as opened as shelters. the derailment, but there was discouraged the students, he a rural area of northern Indi­intermediates in the manufac­Authorities said there would no explosion. Cause of the has also not encourag-ed them. 

ana. No serious injuries were ture of other products. be no attempt to clear the accident was under investiga­Recent quotes obtamed fromreported. "It's hard to say what you'll wreckage before today, and tion. 
Tehran radio contradict this,Authorities planned to have when they get together,'' but the student does not believespread foam on the leaking Smith said. "It's my under­that American newspapers arechemicals in hopes of neutraliz­standing there is some mixing In Blue Line Club accurately reporting Khomei­ing them and stabilize the area. going on. They are moderatdy . 

ni's statements.

Motorists on U.S. 30 near the toxic, but there should be no Proffessor Peter Moody, direc­tracks reported becoming ill problem in an isolated area like tor of the Asian Studies Pro­
Hospitality Room opens

after drivmg through a chemi­that.'' 
gram, cited Carter's actionscal cloud that hung over the area The Environmental Protec­by Paul Mullaney The room, located in an auxil­over the past four days as apart of the morning before tion Agency said caustic soda, iary gymnasium of the Athletic maximum attempt to resolveevaporating. They said the or lye, was a dangerous sub­In a decision made last week, and Convocation Center, was the -crisis. "He is doingfumes smelled like burning stance that could cause burns if vice-President for Student Af­the scene of several alcohol­everything he can do,'' Moodyplastic. not cleansed immediately from fairs Fr. John L. Van Wolvlear related incidents last year, ac­explained, "The extent of allThe highway was closed. the skin. 

announced that the Notre Dame cording to Roemer. this is indicative of the decline

Police said-potentially dan­Some of the chemicals also were many problems
Blue Line Club is allowed to ''There of the United States' positiongerous chemicals were leaking are flammable, including petro­resume oper~ion of its hospi­last year that need not have in the world."

from at least seven and maybe leum naphtha, which Smith tality room at all home Notre been," said Roemer, "like Moody also commented that ifeight tankers. The train was en described as ''like lighter Dame hockey games, effective fighting, underage drinking, the Iranian government did notroute east from Chicago, but its fluid,'' but he said there was tonight. inexcusable behavior, etc. So I attempt to prevent the threat­destination was unavatlable last little danger of an explosion. 
had made the recommendation ened slayings of the hostages, anight. "If they've been lying there The decision came after Dean to John Plouff that, because of ''gross violation ofinternationalWoodard Smith of the Air since 6 o'clock or so, the of Students James A. ~oe~er these problems, all alcohol be diplomacy" would result. Yet,Pollution Control Division of the likelihood of that happenin~ is had requested the termma~ton shut down.'' Moody further commented thatState Board of Health said the extremely remote," he satd. of the room's use last ~~~ng, 

leaking chemicals inclltlled "If they're going to go, it's primarily because of th rv­
•

caustic soda, acetic anhydride, usually within a few minutes or mg of beer within the room. [continued on page 4] [continued on page 5] 





Nevvs in brief 
Friday, November 9, 1979 -page 2 

Carter cancels Canada trip 
OTIA W A (AP) -President Carter has canceled the visit to Canada he had planned for today and Saturday because of the Iranian hostage crisis, a government source said yesterday. The source said Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance telephoned Foreign Secretary Flora MacDonald yesterday to say Carter had decided to cancel the visit because of the pressures of the Iranian situation. 
Weather 
Rainy today and breezy with a chance of thunderstorms. 
High around SO. Rainy and turning colder tonight. Low in 
the mid 30s. Windy tomorrow and cold with a chance of light 
rain. High low to mid 40s. 



CatnP-_u_s-----t 
Friday, November 9, 1979 
3:30pm--LECTURE, "origins of judaism: reformulation of faith in the post-exilic," rev. prof. peter r. ackroyd, kings college u. of london, LIBRARY AUD., spons: dept. of theology. 
4pm--SEMINAR • ''the reaction dynamics of d6 metal complexes in ligand field excited states,'' prof. p.c. ford, u. of calif., santa barbara, CONF. RAf. RADIATION LAB. spons: radiation lab. 
4:30pm--LECTURE, "the singulars cardinals problems," prof, thomas jech, penn state, 226 CCMB spons: math dept. 
5:15pm--MASS* BUUA SHED 
Still discovered in cemetery 
ROCKY MOUNT* Va. (AP) · painted roof. It looked like a cemetery. It had About the only thing visible headstones. It had flowers on from the nearby back road or the graves. It was on a little from the air was the fake rise, and the grounds were neat cemetery, Bowman said. and closely mowed. White-painted cinderblocks 
But the headstones were had been stacked to resemble 
fakes, the flowers were arti­eight tombstones. None had ficial, and state and federal any names or other markings, agents say the only thing buried agents said. 
David Kelton Philpott, 27, of Henry, was nabbed and charged with manufacturing untaxed liquor. 
Bowman said agents found 443 gallons of moonshine at the still, about half of it loaded on a truck. The still was in operation and about 11,200 gallons of mash was on hand, agents said. 

at the Franklin County ceme­
tery turned out to be a moon­
~~~-!~·--------------------...--, shine still. "Yes sir, that was a good Sunday Masses I 
one," said Jim Hunt, agent in 
I at I
charge of the Roanoke office of 
the Bureau of Alchohol, Tobac­1campus S d h I 
co and Firearms. "It was some­tminiStry acre thing, I'll tell you that." I 
People from Hunt's office I 5:15p.m. Saturday helped state Alcoholic Bever­I 9:15 a.m. Sunday· age Control agents blow up the I 10:30 a.m. Sunday still on Tuesday. Authorities 
12:15 p.m. Sunday

wouldn't say how they found I out about it. 1 7:15 p.m. Vespers 
One person was arrested at 
Heart C urch1 
I 

Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.  I  
Rev. Thomas King, C.S.C.  I  
Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C.  ~  
Bishop William E. McManus  I  
Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C.  I  

the site and two others escaped L-----------~-~--------------~ 
on foot through the woods, 
Juniper Press presents 

authorities said. Jim Bowman, one of the three ABC a~ents in on the raid, said 
Abecedary_: An Antic AlP-habet the sttll, which included 18 800-gallon black pots for cook­
Ralph Mcinerny's 

7, 9:30, & 12pm--F/LM* "the return of the pink panther," 
ENGR. AUD. spons:student union. 
7:30pm--AfEETJNG, college life, spons.: campus crusade for christ, LIBRARY LOUNGE O'LAUGHLIN AUD.$2 at the door. 
7:30pm--MEETING* college life, spans: campus crusade for christ, LIBRARY LOUNGE. 
8pm--LIONS CLUB FILM, "tahiti & islands of the south 
seas," phil walker, O'LAUGHLIN AUD. $2 at the door. 
Bpm--CONCERT, pure prairie league, STEPAN CENIBR 
call student union for ticket information. 
8pm--STUDENT PLAYERS* "stop the world, i want to get off!'' WASH. HAIL. 
Spm--COUOQUIUM • "the public interest and the common ~ood," prof. wm. e. connally, spons: dept. of gov. and mterntl. studies, HAGGAR HALL-RM. 117. 
9-10:30pm--NAZZZ* "sometimes two", featuring joe statzer & c.j. eggbeer, NAZZ. lOpm--MASS, gsu november mass, spans: gsu, refresh­ments to follow, LOG CHAPEL. 
10:30pm--NAZZ* greg hull on guitar, NAZZ. 
Saturday, November 10, 1979 
!lam--SEMINAR· "images ofeden: the family as sacrament & the pain of loss in mark twain," prof. thomas werge, nd, 600 MEMORIAL liBRARY* spons: center for the study of american catholicism. 
1pm--GET-TOGETHER *philadelphia club, BULLA SHED. 
1:30pm--FOOTBAll, nd vs. tennessee--AWAY. 
7,9,1lpm--FILM, "the pink panther strikes again" ENGR. 
AUD. spons:STUDENT UNION. , 
7:30pm--HOCKEY, nd vs. michigan, A.C.C. 
8pm--STUDENT PLAYERS*"stop the world, i want to get off!," WASH. HAIL. 
9pm--DANCE * beaux arts ball, ARCHITECTURE BLDG. spons: architecture students. 
Sunday, November 11, 1979 
1:30pm--INITIATION CEREMONY* spans: alpha phi 
omega, SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
2pm--MASS*friends of the retarded of l'arche, everybody welcome, MOREAU SEMINARY. 
7pm--BASKETBALL GAME* annual nd inter-squad charity basketball game, proceeds to neighborhood study help program and special olympics, ND A.C.C. $1 adults, SO cents nd-smc students with id. 
7:30pm--LECTURE, "zero & renaissance abstraction," .P.rof. brian rotman, bristol u. LIBRARY LOUNGE spons: phd, & english depts. 
ing the mash, was in a large ditch covered by a green-

Que 
4 to 23; 65 to 3. Are you shore? Go East young man. 


~The Observer-
Night Editor: Margaret Kruse -...... Asst. Night Editor: Steve--= 
••~' 
Swank, Dave Thomas Copy Editor: Bruce Oakley, Marv Beth Moran La:yout Staff; Jacque Yuknas Karl Augenstein News E"ditor: Mike Lewis, Ellen Buddy Editorial Layout: Ann Gales Features Layout: Sal Granata Sports Layout: Mark Perry Sports Copy Editor: Jim Schue Typists: Tina Terlaak, Coral Cornwall, Laura Vasquez, Carol Shuback, Michelle Kelleher EMT: Micheline Santella, Paul Aelauko Proofreader: Dodee Carney, Thomas Reuter ND Day Editor: Patsy Camp­bell SM~ Day Editor: Karhy Do­mamco AdDesign: Chris Slatt, Barb Pratt, Flo O'Connell Supplement Layout: Paul Mullaney Photographer: Beth Prezio Guest Appearances: Edith Piaf on Vocals, Ryan "Birth­day Boy" Ver Berkmaes 
The ObserYer [USPS • 920] Is published Monday through Fridly n­cept during nam and viCition periods. The Observer Is published br ttle students Df Notre Dame ad Saint Mary's Cllllgt. Sublcrtptila lillY Ill 
purdlnld for $211 per ,.., [$11 ,., semattrl from The Ot>server. P.O. box 
a. Nttrt bame,llldlaaa 48556. s-ci clns '::l p1id, Natrt 011111, lit­diana . 
The Observer Is 1 rnemtllr II till Aalclated Prla. AU ,....... rigfttllft flllrwd. 
"Alphabet for Adults" 
Illustrated by P.L. Stow 
Available at the HAMMES Notre Dame Bookstore 
________Get your copy now! 



MARSON GRAPHICS 
Monday 
Tuesday _November 13 

I; t!'!!~W~~ f. 
11 am -7 pm 10 am -5 pm LaFortune Lobby 
Collection of original etchings, woodcuts, lithographs, and serigraphs by the following artists________ 
Chagall Daumier Fantin-Latour Maillol Rouault Whistler Baskin Coughlin O'Connor Kaczmarek Eggers 


2 mixed drinks for the price of one 
Saturday during the Game 25c drafts 

J 
l 
I 
,. 

rl / 
/ 

• 1 ·~· ·c:~J •. <,~ t.· .." ,· . 
'· .. • • ,. • ' • .. < • ­

........#-.............. , ......... ,. ............ " .......... ~ _. I.:-..... .
. . ; .. ....
-:~~ -~ 
The Observer Frida)', November 9, 1979 -page 3 
Hard to find Records? Go to 
.Just for the Record, 
whose new speciahy .recordmart (thousands of collectors albums and cutouts) will open SOON at 

j 
LOEWS Merchandise Mart 
Next to bus station, downtown 

~ 
In West Virginia 




Police search for inmates 
MOUNDSVIllE, W. Va. (AP) ­Police checked the woods here and searched door-to-door in a Pennsylvania town yesterday for six inmates who fled the West Virginia Penitentiary in a prison break that left a state trooper and one inmate dead. 
Fifteen prisoners escaped from the prison Wednesday night, but eight were captured late Wednesday and early yes­terday. 
Among those at large were four convicted killers and some 



Students find Neighborhood Roots on South Bend tour 
byJohn Pinter 

Last Sunday, 125 members of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community participated in the 1979 edition of Neighborhood Roots. The program consisted of a tour of the ethnic neighbor­hoods of South Bend, .a tradi­tional Hungarian feast, and a speaker program. The purpose of the program was to expose students directly to the South Bend community and to its problems and ways of dealing with them that exist in most urban areas throughout the country. 
Along the exploration route were many signs of both urban decay and revitalization. At Our Lady of HungaryChurchon the city's West Side, where the excursion ended, the students toured the historic church and then ate a traditional Hungari­an meal. 
Mark Koenig, who helped coordinate the ticket sales, remarked that the meal was "extremely good, but probably wouldn't have been the same without Tillie.'' Tillie, the head waitress who served the meal, kept everyone laughing. 

Roberts enters guilty plea 
Jeffrey A. Roberts, 20, of 122 William, South Bend, pleaded guilty yesterday to a rape charge in South Bend Supenor Court. Roberts is accused of 
raping a  Niles woman on Nov.  
13, 1977  near  the Notre Dame  
campus.  

Roberts is free on $750 cash bond awaiting sentencing, ac­cording to the South Bend Tribune. 
Philly Club 

to hold game celebration 
The Philadelphia Club is having a get-together Saturday at the Bulla Shed. Students from the Philadelphia area and their friends are invited to come and watch the Tennessee game 
between  1-5  p.m.  and  enjoy  
some refreshments.  Admiss10n  
will be $2.00.  

After the meal, Professor Swartz of the Economics De­partment gave a slide presenta­tion, followed by Professor ]ohn Roos of the Government Dept., who exflained how the observations o the tour related to urban decay. Marzy Bauer of the South Bend Community Development Department then gave a speech on how people affect community redevelop­
ment. Threse Tavis, a senior from Badin Hall, spoke on areas open to student involvement. 
The task force reaction to the program marked it a success. Sophomore Paul Callahan, co­chairman of publicity, stated that while the program went well, there was room for im­provement. "For instance," he said, ''publicity could have been a little more widespread.'' Overall reaction by partici­pants, at the end of the pro­gram was positive, due in great part to the tying together of the tour and the speakers program. 

throughout the Moundsville re­gion after the escape and searched a heavily wooded area where escapees ahd been sight­ed earlier. The FBI also entered the case. 
Spotting prisoners was diffi­cult because the escapees were dressed in street clothes, police said. Mohn said he would restore the wearing of uniforms by prisoners as a result of the escape. 
In Waynesburg, Pa., 30 miles from the prison, where the body of escapee James L. Collins was found in an abandoned car, police went door-to-door look­mg for three inmates. 
The car belonged to slain trooper Philip Kesner, 23, wh~ was driving past the prison when the inmates broke out. He and his wife, who was unharm­ed, were dragged from the car and Kesner was shot · dying later at a hospital. Kesner was believed to have shot Collins, Mohn said. 
The prison, in the state's nothern panhandle, is only a few miles from Ohio and Penn­sylvania and about 50 miles southeast of Pittsburgh. 
Mohn said the escape began Wedoesday at about 8:10 p.m. when John S. Hart, an inmate who is the prison barber asked to be allowed into the prison command center to store his tools. Once inside, he pulled a gun on a guard. Then inmate Collins entered the command center and held a knife to the guard's throat. 
Using the guard's keys to let themselves into a corridor, they capture a second guard and forced him to open the prison's electronically controlled doors, Mohn said. 
The escape was the largest in several decades at the maxi­mum security prison. 
SaturdaY-

DBL BLOODY MARYS 




$1.00 
ofthe ringleaders ot the escape. 
''They are armed and really dangerbus,'' said State Police Cpl.]. G. Watson. 
Gov. Jay Rockerfeller said at a news conference in Charleston he would launch an investiga­tion into how inmate obtained a .32-caliber pistol used in the escape. 
That type ofgun is not used by prison personnel, penitentiary Superintendent Richard Mohn said. 
Police set up roadblocks 


The Observer Friday, November 9, 1979 -page 4 
U.R.C. provides aid 
GSU November Mass 


Refugees adjust well to U.S. life 
by Man'beth Moran StaffReporter
10 pm Sat. 11/10 

The Southeast Asian refugees are adjusting to life in their new
LOG CHAPEL Refreshments After 

country rapidly, according to Carol McComas of the Head­start Program in South Bend. The South Bend community in conjunction with the United Rehgious ·Community (URC) have mounted a massive effort to assist these immigrants in their resettlement. 
McComas, a public relations employee of South Bend Head­

MBA 

start, is involved in the resettle­ment effort in both a volunteer
This outstanding educational plan involves six months 

and professional capacity. As a
of classes; followed by a six-month internship of 

Headstart professional she en­
paid professional work experience; then nine more 

courages the immigrants to
months of classwork. 

send their youngest children to
The internship concept•. which Northeastern pioneered, 

classes in order to make enter­
gives you practical, real-world experience in your own 

ing school for them an easier
field of interest. It helps you pay for your edu.::ation. 

and more productive experi­
And it often leads to important contacts for the future. 

ence than it was for their older 
Classes begin in June and January. 

siblings.
r----------------------------------------------, 

''We want to take these child­
For further information, send to: DD 

ren into the Headstart classes,"
Susan V. Lawler 

she said. "Many of the newly
Coordinator. Management Intern Program 

arrived refugees have yet to
Graduate School of Business Administration 

take advantage of this offer
Northeastern University 

though."
360 Huntington Avenue 
Boston. Massachusetts 02115 

The Southeast Asian Task Froce, which is the URC com­
Name _________________________________ 

mittee in charge of resettling the refugees, is also deeply
School Class 

involved tn helping to educate the newcomers in both the
Address 

English language and Ameri­can customs. According to Phil
State ZIP Niswonger, a spokesman for 
the coalition, there are four tutorial pro~rams now in ses­sion. English as a Second 
~---------------------------------------------~ 

~~ Northeastern University 

Language, a 25-hour-a-week 
REPRESENTATIVE ON CAMPUS ON NOVEMBER 12 

course taught at the high schools, an ESL program taught at night, a parish sponsored effort at adult education, and a Help-Study program out of Notre Dame. According to Nis­

[continued from page 1] 
Plouff, managing director of the ACC, later requested an interview with Van Wolvlear to defend the stand of the Blue Line Club. 
"Father Van Wolvlear ruled that they should be given one more chance to see tf alcohol would work at these events," Roemer noted. 
''If the club responsibly limits the room to only those people of mandatory age (21 years), if they honor only sufficient proof of age, and if the controls over the room saw that there were no problems, then it can continue to function. 
"But, as we agreed, with the 

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY VISITS YOUR CAMPUS TO ANSWER~.QU:6STIONS ON THE M.B.A. PROGRAM 
Located in the heart of the Wall Street area, New York University's Graduate Sc..:hool of Business Administration has trained students for exec..:u tive posi1ions for over 60 years. A recent survey by Standard & Poor's ranked New York University number 2 nationwide as the source of graduate education for chief executives in major companies. On 
Wednesday, November 14, Leslie Dukker will be nn campus to discuss the quality and flexibility of the 
graduate business program. Check 


NEWYORK 

UNIVERSITY 
(;r~du<~tc Sdmol of Kusinl'SS Adminbtr<tlion 

A PRIVATE UNIVERSITY IN THE PUBLIC SERVICE 
wonger, many people are in­volved with these ,J?rograms but many more are sull needed. 
In the area ofemployment, the Task Force has set up a ] ob Bank headed by William Har­dy, and a customized job place­ment bureau in conjunction with the Rotary Club. Niswon­ger expressed great ~preda­tion to members of the South Bend community who have hired these people and in many cases trained them. 
In sympathy with the :plight· of the boat people and other refugees around the world, the URC is sponsoring a Communi­ty Day of Fast on Thursday, November. 15 to increase public awareness of famine and hun­ger throughout the world. 
The World Hunger Task Force along with Oxfam will be col­lecting money for the fight against world hunger. 

The breaking of the fast will occure at symbolic refugee dinner prepared by the refu­gees themselves that night from 6:30 p.m. to 7:45 p.m. at Little Flower Church, 54191 Ironwood. Besides the dinner the program will include songs, a slide show, and two speakers. 
The speakers will address the assemble on both the local and world relief efforts. Andrew Nichol, a South Bend attorney, will speak to the assembly on local efforts, while John Gilli­gan, former governor of Ohio and former director of the Agency for International Deve­lopment, will speak on the world situation. 
Tickets should be reserved in advance, since space is limited. For more information, contact the URC office at 282-2397. 
• • . Hospitality Room 


e The ND Student Players Present •• 
: STOP THE WORLD : :I WANT TO GET OFF: 
• •e
e Nov. 9,10,16,17
• •e
e Washington Hall 8pm : Admission $1.50 :
•
• 
with the Office of Placement Services for sign-up schedule and further 
information. 

very next problem that results, the operation would be shut down,'' Roemer said. 
The Blue Line Club is making every attempt to avoid any further difficulties, according to club president Thelma Hess­ling. 
"We are doing every thing we can to cooperate with the University,'' said Hessling. "We will have a policeman at the door, making sure that all ID's will be thoroughly check­ed. All members must be, and will be, 21." 
Additionally, the room will be closed during each period of play, in an attempt to discour­age the attendance of those people who came not to watch hockey, but to drink. 
''This is where some of the problems occurred last year,'' said Hessling. "Some people remained up in the room while they should have been watching the game. This year a police­man will see that the room is cleared by the end of each intermission.'' 
The Blue Line Club functions to support the Notre Dame hockey team. While the hospi­tality room does help the club's income, it is not the lone source of revenue. Nevertheless, Hessling feels the reinstate­ment of the room will greatly hel~ the club. 
"We are very pleased, to say the least," she said of Van Wolvlear's decision. "The room is an enjoyable, social thing. I see people at hockey games that I otherwise wouldn't see at all." 
Van Wotvlear's decision also affects the Tip-Off Club, a similar group which runs a social room in the ACC for all Notre Dame home basketball ~ames. The Tip-OffClub which ts totally independent of the Blue Line Club, was stripped of the same privileges by Roe­mer's initial request. 
"Both were affected, and both were shut down," said Roemer. "Now, one more chance ap­plies to both of them, however. 
"To be consistent, the opera­tion apJ?Iies across the board. In all fatrness, each of them has been given one more chance -­separately, of course," he con­cluded. 
The ACC holds the license for 
serving alcoholic beverages m 
the respective rooms. 

The Observer Friday, November 9, 1979·-pa&e 5 
In Tehran 
U.S. welcomes PLOaid 
WASHINGTON (AP) -U.S. to exist in peace in the Midclle Clark, a former attorner. ge­
mediator Ramsey-Clark is hold­East. neral, and fellow envoy Wdliam ing .talks in Turkey with an In response to the demand, G. Miller, staff director of the offic1al of the Palestine Libera­discussed by Clark with the Senate Intelligence Committee, tion Organization in an effort to PLO official, the State Depart­flew to Athens and then to negotiate the release of some 60 ment volunteered a statement Istanbul after the department 
was

American hostages in Iran, it to reporters in Washington told Wednesday that the 
was learned yesterday. yesteraay morning. religious leaders would see A U.S. official, · who insisted It said: "If they (the PLO) are them. that he not be identified, said moving to help release the Clark met with the PLO repre­Americans, it would be a highly But their journey ended pre­sentative Wednesday in Istan­responsible action in a situation maturely when the Iramans bul and met with him there where they may . have some switched signals. Ayatollah again yesterday. influence, and we welcome Ruhollah Khomeini announced 
The PLO has offered to inter­such assistance.'' that neither he nor anyone else cede with Iranian authorities to The question now being taken in authority in Iran would talk to try to gain the release of the up by Clark with the unidenti­the American unless the United hostages, held since Sunday in fied PLO official is whether that States acceded to Iranian de­the U.S. embassy in Tehran. statement satisfies the PLO mands that the ousted shah be 
But as a pre-condition, the pre-condition. returned for trial. PLO is demanding that the United States ask directly for its help. U.S. policy prohibits di­rect negotiations with the group until it recognizes Israel's right 

''•• 
Au-Bowl
• . Iran
• 

[continued from page 1] 
military intervention would ne ~-~---------­
an impractical alternative since the embassy is situated in the I 
ATTENTION SEMESTER GRADUATES
middle of the city. Swiss Air is now the only airline flying directly into Teh­
The Continued Growth of 
ran. Yesterday afternoon a spokesman for Swiss Air said 
f-------Ultimaster --------1
the planes were still arriving and departing from ·tehran to 
has created an outstanding opportunity on 
Zurich according to normal schedules. When questioned if 
the sales staff for a sales trainee. Initially.. 
the airline would continue to 
the position will require a period of training 
service Iran in light of the esca~ating crisis,, he replied.~hat 
so as to fully prepare the individual in all
continued servtce was not certain.'' 
facets of our industry and business. It is 
Because the political tension 

anticipated that this position will lead to
has been mounting over the last several months in Iran, the 
sales representative position. 
question remains why so many Americans continue to reside in 
Compensation includes excellent salary
Tehran. The Notre Dame student who 
plus liberal fringe benefit pack~ge. We are 
left Iran last spring noted that while he was leaving on his 
located aJ)prox. '25• mlnutes southeast of 
student visa, many Americans 
South Bend.

were fleeing in fear. When the If you are an enthusiastic and energetic individual who is first wave of Americans board­looking fqr an outstanding opportunity for personal anded planes for home, Iranian professional growth, Please contact: MR. BRIANbusiness suffered a great loss in BRADY* ULTIMASTER DIVISION* HOLIDAYAmerican skills. The student RAMBLER CORP. • 65526 ST. RD. 19, WAKARUSA*claimed that Tehran has been INDIANA. 46573. (219) 862-4551. An equal opportunity luring the Americans to stay by employer. · 
quadrupling their salaries. An Amencan friend of the student's family held a position r-------~~~~~--------, 
·with an Iranian firm and was paid $78,000 annually. After 
I RIVER CITY I
the Khomeini regime seized power and Americans began to pack their suitcases, this busi­nessman's salary · soared to 
I RECORDS I 
$260,000 a year. Because of the need for Americans in Iran and I I the subsequent compensation, 
I Northern Indiana's largest I
the student's anecdote clarifies 
why Americans have agreed to I record and tape selection I 
remain in Tehran--a prime com­
mercial center. I and concert ticket headquarters I 
Notre Dame student Mary 

Ahern's uncle, who graduated I ,-------------------, Ifrom Notre Dame in 1955, is being held hostage in the 
I I $1.00 OFF!! I I
embassy. He was assigned to 
the Iranian embassy last June. I I Any albupt 9r rape, (Now thru Nov. 23 I 1 
Ltmtt 1 coupon per Person\
His wife and children are L anxiously awaiting news in I I
-----------..t--•--.J 
their Washington, D.C. resi­I•18,000 albums and taves in stock 1 
dence. At press time, the State 
Department, which has be'-n ~~ ND/SMC student checks accepted for 1 keeping in contact with the 1 up to $20.00 over purchase amount 1 
hostages' families, could offer 
no encouraging signs to the 1•Open 10 to 10, 7 .. -~-sa week I 
Aherns. Recent reports indi­cate that the hostages are being I River City Records 1 harassed. 
1 50970 U.S. 31 North I
"I am very fearful," Mary Ahern commented, ''All we can I 3 miles north of campus 1 do is pray." 
L------~~~=--·---•1 
j 

invites all members to a 
T 


Watch the game on our new BIG SCREEN T.V. I 2:30pm Saturday Nov. 10 
I 

Refreshments FREE FOR ALL MEMBERS (onl at K of CHaD' 
t 
f 
7 
I
1. 
i 
: 
' ( } 
' 
f 
{ 
r 
( 
~ 
( 
~ 
• 
EC~itoric: ~ ~s 

Friday, November 9, 1979 
Incorrect Map Undermines A lesson in mismanagement 
Due ~~~~:c~!cy!h~~!nistration has
to 
retracted a map pinpointing the location of reported ra~es on campus since 1969. After this action, The Obs'erver: ser~ous!y questions the reliabillty of. Security and the Umvers1ty 1!1 keeping students truthfully mformed as to the status of theu security on this campus. 
The Observer has verified at least one incident of reported rape which was not pinpointed on the map. We can only speculate as to the reason for this ommission: Do the records of Security and the information of the Dean of Students accurately reflect the number of rapes and assaults on campus? Are all rapes which occ~r on. c~m~us .repo!"fed to Security? ~hat w~mld be t~e Umvc:rstty s JUStification for purposely wnhholdmg such mformanon from students? 
It is possible that the ommission was merely an oversight. If this is the o:ase, however, the error was both serious and inexcusabl·· Students m:::st have confidence in the competenn· of their security department, and inaccurate record-keeping will do little to build this confidence. Amore serious question concerning students' perception of Security's competence involves the unknown number of unreported rapes that ot:cur on this campus. Rape victims should feel they can report an incident with confidence not only that Security will be effective in finding and dealing with suspects, but also that the victims themselves will be dealt with delicately and competently. . 
It is our belief that students do fi•)t at present possess wtde spread confidence in Notre Dame Securi~y, and this is. s~d indeed. Measures that should be taken to Improve Secunty s reputation among students include adding more _:women_ to the security force (at present, there are two), and mcreasmg Security's visibility on campus. 
Finally, we consider the question of possible justification for intentionally concealing i~formatio~ on ~ncidents of rape ~nd assault. While we admit the University may have vahd reasons for withholding information about certain aspects of 
' an incident (primarily for the purpose of protectmg the victim's anonymity), we strongly believe that the fact of a rape or attack having occurred should in all cases be reported. 
If the University makes a practice of concealing incidents, it runs a double risk. First, it may instill a false sense of safety in ND I SMC students by painting a picture prettier than reality. Secondly, it risks losing the trust of students who may well conclude that the Umversity is not being totally honest with them about an issue that has serious implications for their lives. 
The Observer recognizes that the Administration and Security are taking steps to,, examine and improve the situation. These efforts will accomplish little, however, unless they are carried out with honesty and accompanied by a sincere desire to increase student confidence in Security's competence. 
'PeAR!JI?eNNCR: IN CA5e I «Kl"tJVC TO TElL. YaJ THIS IN ~IJIJ1NT 't()(J70KNOll/I~ AU(I4Y5 71D/6HT OF KX1A~ A 5Qtl. /AeM4YIVIVC HAIJOIR PIF­FCRENCES, 81/T I aJ£ YOfJ Atol" 
~--\ 
MYGW.. r HAD.• 
HAlJNO !PEA! 
-The Observer_ 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 The Observer is an independent 
CAN I GIVe 
'tfXJ AtiFT
14/AITA 
8ACI<701He
MINUTe .. 
AI~MAN? 
0 
' 

and confusion 
Rumors and overheard conversations served 
only to further confuse most students, and some 
people are still trying to figure out what to do. 
As every student knows, the pte-re~istration process is explained on the instruction sheet mcluded with your Form 50. Unfortunately, these instructions only help when the Form 50 is received well ahead of pre-registration time, which they usually aren't. What is that little loophole about department chairmen having the ability to change students' schedules? I suppose we'll find out if our schedules have not been changed when we register in January, far too late to add a popular course and long after we have set our mmds about the classes we are taking. 
There is also a paragraph on the instruction sheet dealing with non-checkmarked courses. I never realized a non-checkmarked class could close. Apparently this is something new--and, since it is not explained, further confusing. 
Pre-registration is always a harried time and I fully understand how a new system could be confusing. What I don't understand is why such routine matters as the printing of course description booklets and the preliminary sche­dule of courses was not finished in time for pre-registration. Nor do I understand why the system was never fully explained. But if the administration does not have the courtesy to explain such important .Processes as pre-regis­tration, I do not have any delusions that they will explain their errors. I'd look in the phone book for someone to complain to, but the campus directories are still nowhere to be seen. 
By the way, the lines were still there. They were just more spread out than usual. 
-page 6 
Rosemary Mills 

Once again, the administration has taken measures to simplify the livesof students and, in doing so, has not only missed their goal, but has exhibited a great lack of competency. 
I should have known something was wrong when the new ree;istration process was said to "eliminate lines." Lines, being a fact of life at Notre Dame, are not simply eliminated. Instead, they are ·something students cope with and grumble about--bookstore lines, ticket lines, lines to see your advisor, lines to pick up cards, and lines to see administrators. As I approach the second semester of my senior year, I realize I have become immune to lines and extremely suspicious of a system that can exist without them. 
Lines, however, are not a primary considera­tion in registration. What is important is that the registration process is as uncomplicated and as fair as possible and that both students and faculty are informed about courses and sche­duling. My immunity concerning lines does not extend to overlooking the confUsion, misinfor­mation, and the general mismanagement in this semester's pre-registration. S9meone made some gross errors. 
First of all, the new registration process was not made known until approximately a week and a half before pre-registration. Secondly, it was never fully explained to. either students or faculty. In some cases, even the department secretaries, who are left to answer students' questions, are stilJ not sure what is entailed. Thirdly, course description booklets and, more importantly, the preliminary schedule of courses, was not available in sufficient time for students to decide upon a satisfactory schedule. 
'Taxation without representation?' 
In a recent article publicizing the resignation of Curt Hench, The Ohserver quoted Hench as saying that the placement of the Off-Campus Commissioner on the Board of Commissioners was an ' 'overreaction to an earlier lack of representation." The amendmen~.adopted last year to allow for an off-campu!in representative on .the Board was obviously the result of a previous lack of represemation, but it was by no means an ''overreaction.'' 
The Off-Campus Commis­sioner brings the views of the off-campus students to the Board just as the HPC Chair­man represents the interests of the hall residents. To deny representation on the Board to off-campus students (one-fifth of the student body) is compar­able to denying representation in Student Government to alJ residencs of Planner, Breen­Phillips, Alumni, Morrissey, and Walsh Halls. Off-campus students pay the same S17 student government fee that dormitory residents pay; to silence twenty percent of the student body in the allocation of these funds would be nothing less than taxation without re­presentation. But I don't think Mr. Hench's resignation results from the representation of off­campus students on the Board. Rather, it is more directly related to the decisions made by the Board this year. 
Mr. Hench is apparently distressed by the Board's inter­nal disagreements and he cites problems with its "structure, operation and direction.'' Whenever there are a large number of demands placed on a limite~ supply of resources, the 
.~Pf:atton •-of thoS<hiJf~~JJrces• will not take place without disputes. The Board of Com­missioners was faced with the task of dividing a too-small pie between more hungry hands than they could ever have accomodated. Almost every group that requested funding took a cut; many went without. Of course there were disagree­ments. Some very important decisions had to be made concerning the purpose of the student government fund. 
What is the essence of the student government fee? Should it be used mainly for the 
improvement  of  hall  life  or  
should  it  be  used  to  provide  
campus-wide  services  to  stu­ 

dents? How much should be allocated to clubs and organiza­tions that involve a relatively small percentage of the student body, but whose mission it is to serve the ND-SMC/ South Bend community? Should a certain percentage of the funds be set aside for spons groups that the athletic depat tment cannot or will not assist? 

Each  year  it  is  up  to  the  
Board  of  Commissio ners  to  
decide  the  essence  of  the  

student government fee. The reason for a lack of strict guidelines for the allocation is to provid~ some lee~ay for changes m student mterests over the years.. Ideologically, 
'the representatives on the 
Board will put the money where 
the students want and need it, 
and where it will do the most 
good for the community. 
I hope that this is exactly what the Board did this year. If the three HPC members of th•'! Board vs. the one Student Union voice are truly represent­ative ofstudent sentiment, then the studem body would rather have improvements in hall lif~ than previous Student Union services. There is no question that enhancing hall hfe will directly benefit a vast number of students. I am hopeful that Student Union will be able to uphold the high quality of service to students that they have provided in the past. 
I regret that Mr. Hench feels he must resign, but the real problem is not the structure of the Board. Denying repre­sentation to off-(;ampus stu­dents is not the answer. The issue is the essence of the student government fee. 
Shannon Neville Off-Campus Commissioner 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Edttor-in-chief ........Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ....... ...........Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor..... ..... Diane Wilson Features Editor.....Kathleen Connelly the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor ......... ..... Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor .........M. Onufrak their authors. Column space is avail· Executive News Editor ......Mike Lewis Business Manager ........Steve Odland 
( 
f 
( ( ( ( 
r r 
newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame dulac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the able to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

News Editor....................Mark Rust News Editor ...... ........... Mike Shields SMC Executive Editor ..... Ellen BuddY. SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brass1l Advertising Manager.........Bob Rudy Controller..................Kevin Manion Circulation Manager......Greg Hedges 

----~ 
The Observer Friday, November 9, 1979 ·-page 7 

WASHINGTON--A few ~e~ks ago, while in St. Louis, I vtsued one of the city's poorest neighborhoods. I was told about a group of Catholic nuns that had recently begun minis­
tering  to  the  homeless  and  
destitute.  These  were  the  
Missionaries  of  Charity,  the  

order founded by Mother Teresa m the Calcutta slums in 1950. 
When' I talked with one of tQe sisters--an educated woman·­from New Delhi--she said that 
newspaper people in St. Louis had been coming around to write about them. But the story that needs telling, she said, won't be found in the convent. It's in the streets and alleys. The suffering of Calcutta is in St. Louis. It's in every Ame~ican city, if only Amencans would stop to see it. 
The nun was correct, force­fully so. Her thought about being unworthy of public atten­tion was echoed recently by Mother Teresa when she re­ceived the Nobel Peace Prize: ''I am unworthy.'' 
This wasn't the mandatory disclaimer that is routine when great awards are handed out and a touch of modesty is in order. Mother Teresa has been saying it all along. "Let there be no pride or vanity in the work,' ' she has told her sisters. "The work i!3 God's work, che poor are God's poor.'' 
To the w·estern mind that sees normalcy in the deceits of the image-makers and self-pro­motors, the _practitioner of hu­mility is baffling enough. But even less understood ts some­one like Mother Teresa who speaks of "God's work" and ' 'God's poor. ·' This is when the message truly gets unintel­ligible. 
The poor, we think, are those for whom we create ''pro-

Colman McCarthy 
grams." Agencies and depart-years ago, Mother Teresa told 
mentsoo the work. The god is Malcom Muggeridge that, "It 
cost-effectiveness. If a pro-is not possible to engage in the 
gram works, keep it. If not, cut direct apostolate without being 
off the funding. a soul of prayer ... Once we have 
The programmatic view of learned to seek God and his 
life has never entered the head will, our contacts with the poor 
of Mother Teresa. She doesn't will become the means of great 
disdain it. She merely avoids it, sanctity to ourselves and 
preferring the direct route others ... " She tells her sisters: 
where effectiveness is not mea-''Love to pray--feel often during 
sured by cost but in the faces of the day the need for prayer, and 
the comforted victims. The take trouble to pray." 
~issiortlfnes of-chatlty.fs&&e oo' ~rr annual reports bearing stads-None of the news accounts tics on the number of smiles or th~t I r~ad about the peace mumbled thanks they received pnze. gomg to Mother ~eresa from the poor in the first menttone~ he~ prayer hfe. It quarter of the year and whether was as tf thts . woman were that is up or down from the first me~ely an exceptionally zealous quarter figures of last year. soctal worker _whose. selfless­
. . d h ness was explamable m secular
wh h

en s e vtst.te t ~ terms. 
Zacch:'leus soup kttchen m It is easier to deal with her 
Washmgton a few years ago, that way, just as the poor are 
Mother Teresa remmded peo-more handily taken care of 
pie that programs. ~e for a through programs. If this 
purpose, but Chnsuan love unpretentious woman was a 
must be fo~ a person. T~en she believer in astrology or tarot 
began ladlmg the soup mto the cards, the public would have 
bowl_s of the poor. . been told that. But since it was 
_Wt~h some reflection, such prayer--an activity not for the thmkmg can be understood. It sophisticated--nothing was might even lead to a person's satd. redirecting his life and takingthe time to find ways of easing For now, perhaps it's enoush 
h f£ · f · hb A to celebrate the new promm­t e su enng 0 a netg or. t ence of Mother Teresa. Count-
the least, it might lead to an 

uneasiness about American val-less anonymous people--nuns, ues, where we are more con-volunteers, free-lance mission­cerned about the newest flavors aries who tell no one of their in dog food, fall fashions or the .work or prayer life--share her next pay raise--this in a world ideals. In different ways; they where the majority is malnour-are doing her work, which is to ished, ill-clothed and earns less say God's work. "The biggest than $300 a year. disease today is not leprosy or 
If Mother Teresa leaves tuberculosis,'' this simple many Westerners behind, it is Catholic nun has said, "but when she answers the question rather the feeling of being on where she gets the energy to unwanted, uncared for and do her so-called "God's work." deserted by everybody." Year after (ear, 16 to 18-hour If that is the disease, then days, all 0 it is numbed with finding a place to fight it isn't the sameness of disease and hard, whether the scene is 
across the ocean in India,poverty.
She and her nuns get across town, or perhaps only 
across the room.
strength from pray_Er. A few 

P. 0. Box 


Alcohol problem an athletic contest the holy gathering? Would ] esus Christ limit his
due to campaign to only the advance­ment of those people within a 1,350 acre rationed, separate,
peer pressure autonomous boundary? Would He-be pleased seemg 60,000 Christians come and go from
Dear Editor: 

this 1,350 acre place, and . ignore the decay of theI'd like to comment on the 
neishborhood around the
University's policy regarding Chnstian place?

alcohol and kegs on campus. 

Would Jesus Christ wasteYes, there is a drinking prob­food, compete against otherlem at Notre Dame. Darners Christians for arbitrary grades,can't compete with the Badgers or litter the streets outsideof Wisconsin, but a large that 1,350 2.cre boundary?
volume of weekend drunken­Maybe, just maybe, someoneness does exist that isn't under that. steeple has beenhealthy. 

telling me stories reserved forBut why does this University nowhere. Or maybe, just(and every other college admin­maybe, Jesus Christ is lonelyistration) insist on the elimina­these days .... 
tion of kegs and parties as the solution to the problem? It's 
Bret M. Beegle
ridiculous --if anything it makes the problem worse. The only way you can help the situation is by changing the attitudes. There's so much 

Studying abroad : 
peer pressure to drink around here that a lot of students think you can't have a good time 

an excith,g
without being plastered. There are many who think that drinking eight beers, five shots 

alternative
of Peppermint Schnapps, and half a pint of]ack Daniels, and then kneeling before the porce­lain god is "lots of fun." Dear Editor: 
It is possible to enjoy yourself 

without chugging three pit­This letter is directed to the chers. A person with a Coke in adventurous, high-spirited stu­his hand can m~e friends just dents who would rather not as easily as someone with a spend the long South Bend 
PBR. The lightweight who has winter months hibernating in two beers is just as likeable as their dorm rooms or napping in the guy who downs a case. the library tower. If you Guys can meet girls when students really want an alterna­they're still sober --maybe tive to your four-year Hoosier they'II even remember her stay, read on. 
name the next day. The alternative that I have 
When the University im­tried, and am now recommend­presses upon students that they ing, is studying a year abroad. can be valuable and worthwhile Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
persons while still walking a offer a variety offoreign studtes straight line, they'll soothe a lot programs from which to choose. 
of headaches. Notre Dame's program in Austria, for example, allows the Dominic DeFrancis American student to mix and study with Austrian students at the university in lnnsbruck. In France and Mexico, the ex­
Is Jesus Christ change students actually live with a sponsor family while attending foreign universities.
lonely these days? A student in Saint Mary's 
Italy program may be at a disadvantage not living with a family or attending an Italian
Dear Editor: 

university. However, the three-day weekends, one of theFor just a moment in our program's features, allow stu­intellectual lives of black and dents the opportunity to learnwhite, let us put our rationality on the road and at their ownaside and pose a question about pace.
the bearded man, arms 

Of course, just because yououtstretched, who dominates leave the home campus doesthe mosaic facade of our not mean that you also leave"world's largest" collegiate your books behind. Schoollibrary. 
means studying, wherever youWould Jesus Christ, zf he are.The difference that over­were present amongst the seas studies ~rovides is thatChristians here, say to them instead of gazmg out the win­that there is a place for a dow at the golden dome frommilitary that murders men in the library, you can see thethe Christian university, or in Coliseum, the Alps, or the ruins any location? And, how may of Aztec cultures. 
these men who rationalize If Jour major is one thatmurder and war, utter the woul allow for a year ofwords, " ... as we forgive those overseas study and you thinkwho trespass against us,'' once you could use a break in yourevery seven days? 

four years here at Notre DameWould ] esus Christ put on a or Saint Mary's, check into thethree piece uniform and ration Foreign Studies Office to seeh~s very being according to the which program would suit you
dtctates of a business 

best. A year of changedhierarchy? 
sct>nery offers an exciting addi­Would ] esus Christ grade tit·n to your studies. 
men, rate men, issue men identification cards, order poor 
Kelly Foss 
men to rake his leaves or make 


._, 
-


The Observer Friday, November 9, 1979 -page 8 
CELEBRAnOH/RIVER CITY 

Mason announces 

Proudly Ptelenta 
'jDotly 

atcbet 

with Special Guests 
Point Blank 
Thursday, November 15 8:00pm 
ffio11is Civic Auditorium South Bend 
~~~ Seats Reserved 18.50 & J7.50 
River City Recorda (U.S. 31 North, Western Ave., ffilahawaka Ave. & Dunea Plaza In ffilchigan City) 

Holiday Savings on Your Favorite Music••• 
THE KNACK Get The Knack 

Stel'eo Lps Series 798 
$4.99 
CAPITOL 
SlereoLps Seriesl398 

FLEETWOOD MAC 
Includes Think About Me S1sters Of The Moon I Know I'm Not Wrong Walk A Thin Line 
CASABLANCA 
~
• 


Contractor chosen ·for new dorms 
by Laura Vasquez 

The contractor for the two new resident dorms has been chosen and within the next two weeks a contract will be signed, accord­ing to Thomas Mason, Univer­sity vice-president for Business Affairs. 
Last Monday, Mason stated at the CLC meeting, that the August I 5 date "will be almost impossible to meet.'' Accord-
Speaking of Sports FREE PIZZA 

Sunday Night 9 pm AM 64 


Stel'eo Lps Sel'ies 808 

• 


CLASSIC CRYSTAL 
MUSIC 
THE 
GIFT 
THAT KEEPS 
GIVING 
PICTURED ITEMS ONLY. 

ing to the bids submitted by ted to allow for South Bend's contractors, the University will winters. Knowing that con­not have the dorms completed struction might be delayed from 
by next semester. 
Although a definite deadline had not been set, the University had been ''striving for August of next year'' because the architectural plans had sugges­ted that August would be a feasible completion date. The architect, however, was not from this area, and had neglec-




The HAMMES Notre Drune Bookstore 


four to five months this winter, no contractor would agree to take the responsibility of com­pleting a dorm in time for next semester's students to move in, Mason said. 
The University optimistically hoped for an August comple­tion; therefore, a separate con­tractor was hired and has already completed the under­ground work for the new dorms. 
Mason now anticipates con­struction to begin shortly after the new contraGt is signed. Whether the new dorms will house male of female students has yet to be decided by the Administration, an official sa.id. 
London 
professor to lecture today 
"Origins of Judaism: Refor­mulation ofFaith in the Postexi­lic Period'' is the subject of a talk by the Reverend Professor Peter R. Ackroyd, Samual Da­vidson Professor of Old Testa· ment Studies at King's College, University of London, to be presented at 3: ~0 o.m. today in the Library Auditorium 
Professor Ackroyd, a special­
ist in the history of Judaism 
during the period of the Second 
Temple, has also taught at the 
University of Leeds, Cambridge 
University, and several insti­
tutes in the United States. He 
is the author of "Exilt> and 
Restoration," "Israel under 
Babylon and Persia,'' and seve­
ral other . monographs and 
commentanes. 
The talk is s_ponsored by the 
Department ot Theology. For 
interested Theology majors and 
graduate students, a seminar 
will be held from 10 a.m. to 12 
p.m. in room 214 in the Memorial Library. 
S.U. issues filtn applications 
Applications for film sponsor­ship during the Spring semes­ter will be available from Mon­day to Nov. 19 in the Student Union office. Organizations applying for ::... movte date must register with the Director of Student Activities and turn in their applications to the SU secretary by 4 p.m., Nov. 19. A lottery will be held on Nov.25 at 6 p.m. in the SU office to determine which organizations will receive movie dates. 
·I Ccirby'sl · 

,:-;::.--~.----...-•.---~ I • ,-. -. • 
,. -·-_,...-~ ---..... I \ ·• --:~,?. 
::. ~ -----------­open mon-sat 2pm-3am 
CT() ND 
BEAT VOLS 

{ I 
.. ... ~ • L L • • 0 0 \ .... 
' ~ •• -#~ ··"'· ,• .. -... 

I 

---~
7": ·'-' 
•.----}?!,T t , 


• 
! 

rts ......xtra 
an Observer sports supplement 
1 

Irish pr~pare for Tennessee, fans 
by Michael Ortman And with that waiting for them cornerback John Krimm and offensive regular backup, is unavailable. Sports Writer tomorrow afternoon, the Fighting Irish guard ) ohn Leon being the latest Thayer, a six-foot-five-inch native of limped into Knoxville today as ready casualues. In addition, offensive Joliet, Ill., was named to Coach and 
Question --How do you fit 85,000 as they can be to play the dangerous guard Ted Horansky will miss tomor­Athlete's "Super-11" All-Star team in people in a place that's supposed to Volunteers. row's game witha pulled hamstring high school, where he played on both hold only 80,250? Dan Devine's roster features more and a severe hip pointer. sides of the line of scrimmage with It's simple. Just send Notre Dame's injured people than St. Joseph's Devine· has been forced to use great success. 
I 
fo~tball te~ to play Tennessee, and hospital. The "out-for-the-season" freshman defensive tackle Tom Thayer Freshman Dave Duerson will start in 
voila--capacity plus. list has swelled to over two dozen with in Horansky' s spot since Leon, the place of Krimm.
I The Tennessee game will mark the third dme an Irish squad has ventured l on to the home field of a Southeast l Conference team, yet Notre Dame has never come away with a win .. In 1971I Louisiana State posted a 28-8 win in 
Baton Rouge, and Mississippi ruined an otherwise perfect national cham­pionship campaign in 1977 with a 20-13 victory in Jackson. 
Rest assured that the Irish are well aware of the Volunteer's decisive home field advantage. ''As good as Tennessee's football team is," said Devine, "playing in Knoxville will be even more of a challenge simply because they'll have those 85,000 rabid fans behind them. You can talk about LSU or Mississippi or Clemson, but I think Tennesse ranks right up there as one of the most difficult places for a visitin~ team to play.'' 
The fans In Neyland Stadium will be ready for tomorrow's game, but more importantly, the players will be more than ready. They've been getting ready for this one for a long time. 
''We started thinking about this game when we flew out of South Bend last November,'' said senior guard Bill Marren. "This year's game with Notre Dame means more to us than anything, even the Alabama game." 
That game in South Bend last fall marked the initial meeting between the two schools, with the Insh putting on a tremendous second-half display to come away with a' 31-14 win. "The first time we started looking like a football team,'' admitted Volunteer coachjohnny Majors, "was in the first half of last year's Notre Dame game. We played on even terms with them for 30 minutes. (The Vols led at half time, 7-6.) But in the second half, AU! kicking game really hurt us.'' 
Tomorrow's game will be Majors' sixth against the Irish, four at Pittsburgh and two at Tennessee, for which he holds a 2-3 record. ''Notre Dame has always treated me and my football teams in a first-class man­by Craig Chval begin making contributions. A knee "I like making a block downfie!d and ner," said Majors. "I know that ourSports W n"ter injury to startin~ flanker Tom Domin springing Vagas (Fer~uson),'' fans will have the class to return the
thrust Holohan mto the lineup for the Holohan says. "But I enJOY catching 
1 courtesy.''
As a quarterback, Pete Holohan was 1978 opener against Missoun. the ball, too.'' 
Devine, on the other hand, is more, used to getting the ~all on ~very play. A quarterback all his life, Holohan [continued on page 11] worried about the players than the; But as Notre Dame s startmg flanker, was suddenly cast into a sink-or-swim fans. ''The thing that scares a coachl he's lucky if he see the ball five or six situation. 
most about Tennessee is its speed,''l times over the course of a game. ''The hardest part for me to learn he said. "Jimmy Streater (quarter­; Which may explain why Holohan is was downfield blocking,'' he remem­back) just might have been the most1 so hesitant to part with the ball once he bers, "and I'm still improving in that elusive back we saw all last season.
i ~ets his hands on it. The six-foot-four-der.anment all the time. 

He seems to wind up running the ball ll mch, 209-pound junior just doesn't 'Having been a quarterback has as much as any of their other backs,drop passes. ' been somewhat of an advantage and he has no problem throwi~g theHolohan came to Notre Dame in the because a lot of times I'll have a good ball. They'll use tow or three different fall of 1977, along with four other blue idea of what's going through the people at both the tailback andchip quarterback prospects. After quarterback's head," says Holohan. 
fullback spots, so our defense has to be spending that fall as a quarterback and Holohan must also remember how prepared for almost anything." 
safety on the prep team, the Liverpool, much quarterbacks disdain dropped 
N.Y., native made the switch to flanker oasses, judging his trememdous abil­. St~tis~ically, t~e Volunteer backfield 
in the spring of 1978. ity to latch onto anything he gets a IS quite rmpressive. 
''The coaches asked me if I wanted hand on. Streater, a six-foot-one-inch, 167­to switch, and I thought I'd have a shot "That part of it wasn't very hard to pound senior, in addition to comple­to play, so I said that I would," get used to," he says. "Catching the ting 63 out of 130 throws for 960 yards, explains Holohan. ''In a situation like ball and running with it came pretty also has gained 308 yards on the that, you're a little bit concerned that naturally. But I had never bfocked ground on just 68 carnes. The two they JUSt might be shuffling you off, before in my life. '' tailbacks, sophomore starter James ~ut helping. th~, team is the most He now lists blocking as one of the Berry and senior backup Gary Moore, tmponant thmg. most gratifying aspects of playing have carried the ball 72 times each for Holohan didn't have to wait long to flanker. [continued on page 11) 



Te'!nessee quarterback jimmy Streater ir known for his Irish wz/1 have to cope wtth Streater, the Vols, and nearlyqurckness, as are the res~ ofTennessee 's Volunteers. The 90,000 fans in Neyland Stadium tomorrow afternoon. 
·--.­
~ 
Former QB 

Holohan's move well received 


;.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiii-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-iiiiiiiiiiiiiii;-· . .fi,.~-'. "'~ .<1. -~ 
-
~­
{ 
/
~1· 


,( 
.j
,, 
r 
.__ 
·The Irish Extra Friday, November 9, 1979 -page 10 
Cichy's back playing tough again 
With an injury that may never cure, Irish strong safety battles the odds 
what he says. "My back hasn't healed
by Frank LaGrotta 

because it never will heal. It hurts but 
Sports Writer 

I have to live with that if I want to I play."
You've got to give Steve Cichy a lot And he wants to play --so much soof credit. 

that he ignores the risk of possibleAfter eight games, the sophomore re-injury on every play.
strong safety from Fargo, N.D., has "I do no hitting in practice," he runs up some pretty impressive explains. ''So there is only contactstatistics. He's fourth on the team during a game. I guess it iswith 56 tackles, including two for dangerous, but the decision was mineminus-six yards. He's recovered a totally and I have to live with whatever fumble, intercepted a pass and done, the consequences might be.''

says Dan Devine, "a super job" at one It's something he tries not to thinkof the toughest positions on the field. 

about. 
Not bad when you consider that he ''I had some second thoughts about almost didn't play football at all this it early in the season," he admits. 

season. And why? ·A fracture of the ''But I just put them out of my mind.'' 

fifth lumbar vertebrae which was A strong player with size to match 

supposed to keep him in a brace, and his desire, Cichy spent his rookie yearout of action. for at least six months. 

as a back-up to ] im Browner before 
Eight weeks later he was on the field winning the Hering A ward for the practicing, brace and all. most improved defensive player in 
"I was not cleared to play until the spring practice. He came into the day before fall practice started,'' season with the starting job nailed points out Cichy, with a distasteful down. . 
look that indicates how he would have "And I wasn't going to let any injury felt about an autumn without football. get in my way," he emphasizes. "If I "Up until that day, I thought there would have sat out, the mental 
was no chance for me to play, so when anguish would have been worse than I got the OK from my doctors, I was the physical pain. I would have had to neither mentally or physically ready to come back, prove myself all over practice. I have to give trainer Gene again, and there's no telling what Paszkiet most of the creidt for helping might have happened.'' 
me get back into shape physically.'' But, lets leave the training room and move out onto the football field where
But mentally? WeJI, that was never the only evidence of Cichy's injury isreally a problem. 

the heavy back brace that he must"I just love the game," says Cichy wear under his uniform. His coaches, with a smile that teJls you he means teammates and, most importantly, his opponents will tell you that, once the game starts, Steve Cichy plays like the healthiest man in the stadium. 
"He's just a great player," praises
Majors notes All-American possibilities 
Devine. "He has the necessary strength, speed and intelligence to play a demanding position like strongKNOXVILLE--There is still plenty of garnered rave reviews from every linebacker." Puki's fiery play has safety and he uses all those tools to
action remaining in the 1979 footbal opposing coach. placed him among the great Vol help the team on every play."
season, but even at this point of the "Roland ] ames is a bonafide All­linebackers of the past, his strength 
Perhaps best remembered for
year, all-conference and AU-America America; he's caused interceptions and quickness puttmg him on top of 
teams wiegh heavily on the minds of and fumbles even though people the team's tackle eharts the past two running 3 3 yards with a blocked punt for the turnaround touchdown in last
both selctors and fans. So last week aren't throwing around him much this seasons. 
January's Come-from-behind Bowl,Coach Johny Majors was asked to year because they respect him.'' ''Alan Duncan has given us solid Cichy has also kicked off for the Irishevaluate some of his players deserving James, a pre-season All-America pick placekicking all year." Duncan, the and played on coverage teams for the
of all-star consideration. at defensive back this fall, has been missionaries' son who set single game speoalty units.
"Ofcourse, the most important thing challenged less as his reputation has and season records for field goals last "He's just a su.Per all-around player for us is to make team progress the grown and as opponent passers have year, has an extra point streak with a great desire to play and playremainder of the season, but we do preferred to test younger member of extending back to last November in well," says Devine. "We're certainlyhave a few individuals who have made the Vol secondary. Still, his near addition to his field goal and kickoff glad he was given the clearance to play progress to the point they deserve perfect srade against Alabama proved accomplishments. 
this season.''

aJI-star recognition," the head coach his continued excellence. "Tim Irwin has come a long way in For Cichy, the season has been a
says. "Reggie Harper, our fine tight end, becoming, in my opinion, one of the mixture of tremendous highs and"Jimmy Streater is an outstanding has had a good year." Reggie's finest offensive lineman in this all-time lows. 
quarterback, the most .l?roductive receptions have dropped with the conference." Irwin, a 6-7 and 259­''The high point was at Michigan;quarterback in Tennessee history and emergence of Tennessee's gifted pound junior from Knoxville, has there's no doubt about that," he sayscertainly deserving of all-star consid­young wide receivers, but improve­worked hard to become a key man in quickly. "The low point? Losing toeration, which I'm sure he will get." ment in his blocking has strengthened the Vols' improved offensive line. 
Purdue. We could have, no, make thatOne need only look at the statistics his credentials as an all-around stand­"Also, I think Brian Ingram and should have won that ~arne and thensheet to realize Streater's value. The out. He shared pre-season, ALL-SEC Steve Davis have given us good play at we'd be 7-1 right now. ' vol' s career total offense leader, he is a honors with Streater and]ames. defensive end.'' Davis, senior from But, he's quick to change thestrong bet to break his own single ' 'Craig Puki is an outstanding leader Knoxville and Ingram, junior from subject because smart football playersseason record this year and has and has performed very well at Memphis, have .Provided exceptional don't waste time feasting on success orplay at a defensive position that was dwelling on failure.
listed as questionable before the ''What we want to do is beatseason began. 

Tennessee, Clemson and Miami then go to a bowl game and beat whoever we play," he proclaims. "Of course all of that is easier said than done. '' 
But Cichy thinks it can be done. 
"We have the potential to beat any team in the country," he points out. "And I think we're in good shape now; both mentally and physically. 
''We know what we have to do and I think we are capable of doing it." Steve Cichy --strong --the last line of defense. 
"Heck, that doesn't scare me," he says. "In fact, I like fact that the position carries so many responsi­bilities. Knowmg that helps me keep my head in the game. Besides, it's a challenge and I look forward to a challenge.'' 
The good one always do. 







• 

The Irish Extra Friday, November 9, 1979 ~ page 11 Between careers 
Streater to choose . Holohan 
Jimmy Streater says that only the right money and position will make him pick professional football over baseball if given a choice next year. 
The Tennessee quarterback deluxe and third baseman-to-be said he otherwise would favor baseball be­cause it causes less wear and tear on the body. 
"It would depend mainly on the money situation, whether it were between the Canadian Football League and baseball or the National Football League and baseball," he said. "But where they would want to play me in the NFL is a factor, too. 

''Some people speak ofme as a wide receiver. I'm sure some would look at me as a quarterback.'' 
Streater's strength is shiftiness, ideal for wide-open Canadian football quarter-backs but perhaps more suited for receivers in the NFL. 
His baseball marks are far less impressive but far more misleading. He has five home runs, 18 RBI, 12 stolen bases in 15 tries and a .277 career batting average. Career mean­ing one season of experience. 
' 'I think Streater has the potential to play professional baseball,'' said Vol baseball coach Bill Wright. Learning to hit the curve and slider is the main thing. He can hit the fastball, and he generates quite a bit of power. 
"I just want a shot," said Streater. "Football or baseball or both, I don't care. 
"If I just can get that chance." 


there, he controls our defense. And he always gives 110 percent. I'll just say he's my kind of lmebacker." 
Craig Puki 
[continued from page 9] 
There's one other thing Holohan enjoys, and it shouldn't come as much of a surprise --the option pass. He's two-for-two in the ~;>assing depart­ment, connecting aga.tnst Purdue and South Carolina. His passing prowess has fueled talk that he possessed the strongest arm on the Irish squad. 

Tennessee Orange fans love Craig Puki 
He's been around now for five years and is one of Tennessee's best-known football players. He is No. 44 in the game program, No. 1 on the tackle charts, and No. 1 in the hearts of a lot of girls and Big Orange fans who love thetr defense. 
Because of him, the Neyland Sta­dium crowd has this nifty new thing going: when the public address announcer credits him with a tackle, there comes a noise from the crowd that sounds for all the world like one big ''boo.'' But that roar which reverberates into every nook and cranny of Neyland Stadium is actually 'P-o-o-o-o-K," the crowd's way of saluting Craig Puki, Tennessee's cur­rent ' 'Mr. Linebacker. ' ' 
Puki is usually too occupied with calling defensive signals, shouting adjustments and yelling down and distance to his teammates to pay much heed to the P-o-o-o-o-ks. But, just the same, he knows they do occur, and occur in direct proportion to the number of tackles made by No. 44. After all, it's pretty hard to ignore the sounds of more than 80,000 people. 
''I'm sure it's the sound of my name," he says. "There are a lot of sports people with that same 'o-o' sound in their names and the crowds do the same thing. Off-hand, I can think of Boog Powell and a baseball player from Seattle, Rupert Jones." 
How good a linebacke,~ is Craig Puki? A man as qualified as anyone to answer the question is Frank Emanuel, the Vols' defensive coor­dinator and one of Tennessee's all­time linebacking greats. 
''Craig is just an extremely good linebacker," he said. "I sure think he is an all-Southeastern Conference performer. He's been our leader out 
''I don't know about that,'' laughs Holohan. ''There are some guys on the team who really have guns. Anyway, I don't want any part of that --I'm staying at flanker." 
Which means Dan Devine still has one more year to solve his problem -­how to incorporate Holohan into both ends of a pass play. 
• • • Irish prepare 
[continued from page 9] 
331 and 324 yards respectively. Fullbacks Terry Daniels (41 for 153) and Hubert Stmpson (49 for 278) complete the Tennessee backfield. 
Last week, the Vols fell into what is coming to be known as the "Pre-Notre Dame" syndrome, losing at home to underdog Rutgers, 13-7. Tennessee joined Purdue, Air Force, Southern Cal, ~nd Navy on the list of teams that 

failed to win the week before facing the Irish. 
"I'm sure they'll be bouncing back tremendously," said Devine, "after having their pride wounded against Rutgers in front of their home fans.'' 
NOTES: Vagas Ferguson should set yet another Notre Dame rushing record tomorrow. The senior tailback is presently 11 carries shy of AI Hunter's single-season mark of233 set in 1976 ... Last Saturday's shutout against Navy was the first time a Navy team had been blanked since Majors' Pittsburgh Panthers did it in 1976, 45-0, en route to a national tide ... 
Chuck Male has hit just three of his last eight field goal attempts since having his string snapped at eight ... 
Johnny Majors and Dan Devine have met six times, Devine with Missouri and Notre Dame, and Majors with Iowa State, Pittsburgh and the Volun­teers. Devine coached Mizzou to wins over Majors-led Iowa· State teams in 1968 and 1969 before the Cyclones downed the Tigers in 1970. While at Pittsburgh, Majors beat Devine's Irish 
twice (1975 and 1976), and last year Devine evened the score at three 
apiece with a win over the Vols .. .Irish 
middle lineback B(')b Crable has had at least 12 tackles in seven of Notre Dame's eight games, and leads the 
Irish with 131 stops, 42 more than number-two Mike Whittington and just 29 shy of Steve Heimkreiter' s 
single-season mark set last year. 
Student camaraderie: NDbene 

From  my  favorite  University  of  Michigan  
alumnus,  Maurice Shorr,  there  recently  came  a  
clif>ping  from  a  .  Michigan  news  pat>er.  

Unfortunately the clipping has gone astray, at least temporarily, so credit cannot be given to tpe writer. Well-remembered, though, is the point of his story. 
Before a Notre Dame game the writer of the story had visited the South Bend campus to watch the Fighting Irish and their fans get up for another one. The wrtter was an observer of and a participant in Notre Dame's pre-game ritual. And it is ritual, make no mistake about that. Some Notre Dame students -­the majority, perhaps --are more faithful to the football holy days than to the ritual of the church to which so many belong. 
The writer was surprised to learn that at Notre Dame there is a pep rally before every home game and before some road games. He was even more surprised to discover that Notre Dame students go to these pep rallies, not because it is the thing to do but because they want to do it. 
THE RELATIONSHIP between student-fan and student-player often was summed up in these words: "He's my friend." 
The writer returned to Michigan impressed by the strong bond of affection between Notrt Dame's student football team and Notre Dame's student body. 
The newspaper clipping that Shorr had sent along was recalled Saturday afternoon, a half-hour or so after the Fighting Irish had staged another of their "could this really have happened???" rallies. 
Halfback Vagas Ferguson, who doesn't talk m!.lch but says a lot, offered this explanation for the "54-second drill" that beat South Carolina 18-17: 
''We were thinking of nothing but winning during the fourth quarter. We certainly didn't want to bear 
This column is reprinted, with permission by the author, from the Chicago Sun Times, Monday, October 29, 1979. 
·Bill Gleason 
the humiliation of defeat." 
Ferguson didn't have to explain where humiliation is waiting after the Irish lose. It is in the residence halls where the football players dwell in the company of hundreds of fellow students who are not football players. It is on the walks and the lawns of the campus where the football star is just another guy among hundreds of guys strolling to class. 
BECAUSE THE INTERPLAY between students­in-the-stands and students-on-the-field is so strong, there are magical moments in Notre Dame football when the roles seem to be reversed. It is as though the students have come down from the stands to play, the athlet~s have gone into the stands to root. 
That transference occurred again Saturday with 96 seconds to play. Notre Dame trailed by seven and was on its 20-yard line, but a "there is no doubt" charge from the student body electrified the stadium. 
Most neutral observers in Notre Dame Stadium, including this one, were hopeful_at that point that South Carolina would win. Notre Dame had been the favorite, after all, and the Gamecocks certainly had played well enough to win. When it was over there were no drooling fans crowing about what a great game it had been. It wasn't a great game. It was 54 great seconds, and it was a comeback that will be remembered until the next one--which may develop next Saturday. 
Because it happens so often for (or against) Notre Dame, there has to be more to it than tradinon. In successive games last season, Notre Dame rallied for 19 points in the fourth quarter to take a lead over Southern California and lose, and rallied for 23 points in the fourth quarter to tie Houston in the Cotton Bowl and win. 
Tradition is not a week-to-week thing. The relationship between players and fellow students is, however. 
IN THE PROGRAM for the Notre Dame-South Carolina game, there was a story on Ted Horansky, an Irish senior offensive guard. Horansky didn't talk much about his football techniques or skills. He talked about the pleasures of bemg at-Notre Dame. 
"If I had a chance to speak at a rally," he said, "I'd have to thank the fans. They've been really sincere, and those ofus on the ream are just happy to oblige them by winning a few football games.'' 
Then Horansky said, ''When I leave Notre Dame, I don't want to be remembered for being a good football player. I want to be remembered for being a good guy.'' 
Although Notre Dame has been more open than most universities about generating important revenue through football, the game there is for the students, for those who cheer and for those who play. 
The toll-road alumni from Chicago can be very vociferous, but they don't run the program. At too many universities--'Arizona State is the current bad example--football, like Little League baseball, is for the grownups. 

The Irish Extra Friday, November 9, 1979-page 12 

Muething works, plays as Notre Dame leprechuan 

SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP)-"Being a leprechaun was not a goal of mine. It was just something I fell into." admits Steve Muething, who serves as the mascot for the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame University. 
l 
Dressing up in green and wearing a beard and tails is a strange transform­ation for the 21-year-old pre-med student from Cincinnati. 
Three years ago, a senior talked him 

' ~ \ 
~ 
Date: Site: Time: Radio: 
Television: Series: Last rvleeti ng: Rankings: 
November 10, 1979 Neyland Stadium, Knoxville, Tenn. (80,250) 

1:30 p.m. EST WSND. AM-64, with Paul Mullaney and Paul Stauder (campus only) Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network, with AI Wester and Pat Sheridan WNDU·TV, Gh. 16, with Tom Dennin and Jeff Jeffers (local only) Notre Dame 1, Tennessee 0 November 11, 1978 •· Notre Dame 31, Tennessee 14 Notre Dame 13th, Tennessee unran.ked (Associated Press) 
1 \ 
:~ 



•\ 
I~ 
Pos. TE LT LG 
c 
RG RT SE DB 
HB 
FB FL 
p 
PK 
LE LT RT RE LLB MLB RLB LCB RCB 
ss 
FS 

OFFENSE OFFENSE PLAYER Ht. Wt. Cl. Pos. PLAYER Ht. Wt. Cl. Dean Masztak 6·4 220 So. TE Reggie Harper 6·2 219 Jr. Rob Martinovich 6-5 260 Sr LT Phil Sutton 6·3 252 Sr. Ted Horanksy 6·3 250 Sr. LG Bill Marren 6·3 262 Sr. John Scully 6·4 245 Sr. c Lee North 6-1 246 So. Tim Huffman 6-5 265 Jr. RG Mike Jester 6·3 244 Jr. Tim Foley 6·5 265 Sr. RT Tim Irwin 6·7 259 Jr. Tony Hunter 6·5 210 Fr. SE Anthony Hancock 5·11 178 So. Rusty Lisch 6·4 210 Sr. QB Jimmy Streater 6·1 167 Sr. Vagas Ferguson 6·1 194 Sr. TB James Berry 5·10 184 So. Ty Barber 6·0 185 So. FB Terry Daniels 5·10 178 So. Pete Holohan 6·4 215 Jr. WB Phil Ingram 5·11 190 Jr. Dick Boushka 6-4 190 Jr. p John Warren Chuck Male 5-11 180 Sr. PK Alan Duncan 6-1 175 Jr. 
DEFENSE DEFENSE John Hankerd 6·4 241 Jr. LE Steve Davis 6·1 Sr. Pat Kramer 6-4 245 So. LT Kenny Jones 227 
6·5 245 So. 

Kevin Griffith 6·3 230 So. AT Brad White 6-2 249 Jr.Joe Gramke 6·4 234 So. RE Brian Ingram 6-3 255 Jr. Mike Whittington 6·2 219 Sr. LLB Danny Spradlin 6·1 223 Jr.
Bob Crable 6·3 220 So. MG Steve Kluge 6·2 So.
250

Bobby Leopold 6·2 217 Sr. RLB Craig Puki 6·2 229 Sr. Dave Waymer 6·3 188 Sr. LCB Wilbert Jones 5·10 177 Jr. 
Dave Duerson 6·2 187 Fr. RCB Danny Martin 5·11 181 Jr. Steve Cichy 6-3 215 So. ss Val Barksdale 6·1 179 Jr. .Tom Gibbons 6·1 185 Jr. FS Roland James 6·2 189 Sr. 
into trying for the role of leprechaun, . but he was passed over. Muething said he made a fool of himself with his impersona~s. 
''Richard Nixon, Muhamnt~ Ali... 
None of them very good really,'' he 
admitted. 
They were good enough two years 
back to get htm named head lepre­
chaun. 
''I pur this costume on and everyone 
is so nice to me," he said. 
Not everyone is nice. For instance, 
there was the kidnapping at Air Force. 
"They even tore off my tails," 
Muething said. "They put me up in 
the stands and just kept passing me up 
through the crowd, one little green dot 
floating through the blue.'' 
Being a leprechaun means more 
than wearing a green suit. 
''As captain of the cheerleaders, I 
put in 40 hours of work a week or so,'' 
he said. "Meetings, practice, travel." 
It's tough and it can be dangerous. 
"The first quarter of my firsr'~me, 
I twisted my knee," Muething said. 
The job requires an athlete able to 
stand atop high pyramids, able to do 

flips. At every Notre Dame football game, it is Muething who leads the ream onto the field. 
But all that work has its rewards. For example, at the end of the football season when Notre Dame travels to Japan for a game, Muething the leprechaun will be along for luck. 
However, there is a minor problem. Since there are very few ')apanese people named Kelly or O'Leary, there ts no word in the languige for leprechaun. 
"They'll be calling me skipping boy," Muething said. 

Steve Muething 

IRISH EXTRA SUPPLEMENT STAFF Mark Perry, Editor Paul Mullaney, Asst. Editor, layout and design Special Assistance, John Smith Photography credit, Phil Stauder 
Multiple toss-ups highlight this week's look into the crystal football 

Alabama 
at LSU 
Arizona State 
at UCLA 
Clemson at North Carolina 
South Carolina 
at Florida State 
Georgia 
at Florida 
Texas 
at Houston 
Indiana 
at Illinois 
Missouri 
~ 
at Iowa State 
~ 
Ohio State 
at Iowa 
: 
Minnesota at Michigan State
' 
Michigan 
at Purdue 
.~ 
Penn State at N.C. State 
0 
Northwestern at Wisconsin 
" . Southern Cal " · at Washington 
Notre Dame at Tennessee 
... --. --·· . . 
" ..:· ..... ..r; ..-.,;:.o:·-···-·· •· ~~-~ 


Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 73·29, .716 
Alabama by 10 
Arizona State by3 
North Carolina by3 
Florida State by 13 
Geor~ia 
by 
Houston by7 
Indiana by3 
Missouri by6 
Ohio State by20 
Michigan State by3 
Purdue by7 
Penn State by 13 
Wisconsin by7 
Washington by2 
Notre Dame by3 
Mark Perry Sports Editor 
72·30, .706 
Alabama by 14 
Arizona State by6 
North Carolina by3 
Florida State by 7 
Georgia by 20 
Houston by3 
Indiana by 10 
Missouri by6 
Ohio State by 17 
Michigan State by 7 
Purdue by3 
Penn State by3 
Wisconsin by 20 
Southern Cal by6 
Notre Dame by7 
··----·--· ---__._
~ ~... ,,. ....... ~".1 ,.,-~~... , 
Paul Mullaney Asst. Sports Editor 69-33, .676 
Alabama by9 
UCLA by3 
North Carolina by1 
South Carolina by4 
. Georgia by 15 
Houston by3 
Indiana by 13 
Iowa State by7 
Ohio State by20 
Minnesota by2 
Michi~an 
by 
Penn State by5 
Wisconsin by 17 
Southern Cal by 11 
Notre Dame by 2 

Beth Huffman Women's Sports Editor 72·30, .706 
Alabama by3 
Arizona State by? 
Clemson by6 
Florida State by? 
Georgia by 10 
Houston by 1 
Indiana by6 
Missouri by7 
Ohio State by9 
Michigan State by 12 
Michigan by 10 
N.C. State by6, 
Northwestern by? 
Southern Cal by9 
Notre Dame by7 
....... t . ........"~-s----__ .,. :. ....... 
Craig Chval Sports Writer 7Q-32, .686 
Alabama by 13 
UCLA by6 
North Carolina by3 
Florida State by8 
Geor~ia 
by 
Texas by6 
Indiana by4 
Missouri by 12 
Ohio State by 16 
Minnesota by2 
Purdue by 11 
Penn State by5 
Wisconsin by22 
Southern Cal by 10 
Notre Dam'l by2 
.. ·7\ "'. ! ..... 

Brian B~lane Sports riter 71-31' .696 
Alabama by9 
Arizona State by6 
Clemson by8 
Florida State by 10 
Geor~a 
by 1 
Texas 
by 12 
Indiana by5 
Missouri by9 
Ohio State by 16 
Michigan State by20 
Purdue by6 
Penn State by8 
Northwestern by2 
Southern Cal by8 
Notre Dame by 12 
:1 • • .... ...... ~-. 


Paul Stauder WSN DSports Director 7Q-32, .686 
;!j 
LSU ~( 
by3 
~;
..
Arizona State by3 

. 
Clemson .t . by 14 
' : 
·~
South Carolina by6 {. 
~ 
..
Geor~a 
;
by 1 .~ 
r.· 
Texas by5 
Indiana by20 
Missouri by 11 
Ohio State by 15 
;, 
"'~
Minnesota by 14 
Purdue 


by7 I
Penn State by 11 
Wisconsin ~ by14 
Southern Cal by 10 
Tennessee by17 
"'~"':.-~--:-~,;-!,.p..;.;. 

Michael Ortman Sports Writer 69-33, .676 
Alabama by 12 
UCLA by4 

North Carolina by5 
Florida State by9 
Geor~ia 
by 

Houston by 1 
Indiana by 10 

Missouri by 10 
Ohio State by 19 
Michigan State by10 
Purdue by2 

N.C. State by 2 
Wisconsin by3 
Southern Cal by8 
Notre Dame by4 


The Observer 
200 North Main ELKHART 



Old Style 5.99 Heineken 14.75 Weideman 5.09 

Hours Monday thru Thursday 8 a.m.· 
Miller's 6. 79 Stroh's 6.79 Hamm's 5.79 Blatz 6.09 Busch 6.79 

Friday., November 9, 1979-page 13 
1621 South Bend Ave. SOUTH BEND 
HIRAM WALKER PEPPERMINT SCHNAPPS 
1.75 LTR. 
6.99 
ALL PRICES GOOD THRU NOV·12,1979 
·--
----~­
··--·­

r-. 
) 
I 
l I ' 
' 
\ 
\ 
' ~ 
2 
l ., ~ 
\ 
~ 
\ 
-~ 
~ 
l 
l \ 
~ 
~ ~ 
{ 
1 
~ 
l ') ~ j 
l 
1 
I 
j 
j 
7~''/ ' 


Letters To ALonely God 
Evidence Ofa Private Nature 
Friday, November 9, 1979 -page 14
Features 

we were trying to catch glimpses of frail canoes of thought, like the 
the evidence for the existence of hunters of snarks ~n treacherous 
Omnipotence. We were not looking oceans. 
for God, you understand, as though Somewhere, we knew, there are He were sharing the deep with us, as gardens of light where the rainbow when He became a pedestrian travel-begins, but our best navigation kept ling the footpaths of the Galilean Sea. us travelling in circles, bring_ing us 
Some small proof was all we searched face to face with beasts whose for, a clue that He had walked on the existence are a reproach to an active wet: a singlenoteof joy in the sobbing God. cc the wmd; a calm as though the During the whole journey into the waves, eternally restless, had ever heart of darkness, I kept thinking: "I been at peace; a stillness as though wonder if they'll notice that I'm no the storm, in it raging had heard longer smoking?" I wanted to tell the word that tole tt to be still. them: "I've got this small private 
"Can you hea15 anything?" our proof that keeps me trustful. For navigator asked. "Can you see three days now. I've been off anything? Can you ever hear or see cigarettes, and I believe God. I has anything?" been helping me quit." 
"Only the distant fog and the How could I mention a private oncoming night," someone reElied, miracle,when ther. were talking about ''and a rumor of peace beyond the the death of children? "God isn't 
Gerard Curtin 
What's All This, Then? 
CINEMA--ON CAMPUS 
The Return of the Pink Panther, at 7:00, 9:30, and 12:00, on Friday, November 9. Engine~ring Au~itori­um. In this, another m the senes of 
PinkPanther films, Inspector Clouseau (played by Peter Sellers) is called in to solve a jewel theft by the government of Lugash. 'A'ith Her­bert Lorn as Chief Inspector Dreyfus and Christopher Plummer. The Pink Panther Strikes Again, at 7:00, 9:00, and 11:00 on Saturday, November 10. Engineering Auditori­um. Chief inspector Dreyfus is cured after a Clouseau-induced nervous breakdown, but one visit by the bumbling detective is enough tq push him over the brink again. 

Lola Montes, at 7:30 on Monday, November 12. Washin~ton Hall. Max Ophus directed this insightful and technically polished Him on the familiar themes of love and pleasure, passion and frivolity. (NDI SMC film series) Paper Moon at 7:00, 9:00, and 11:00, on Wednesday and Thursday, November 14 and 15. ~yan O'Neal stars in this pleasant ftlm about a Bible salesman and a little girl who become a clever con team in the Midwest during the Depression. 
CINEMA --OFF CAMPUS 
Fiddler on the Roof (times unavail­able). Forum Theater I. The lovable T evye is with us again in this delightfulfilm>f old Russia. Sleeping Beauty (times unavailable) Forum Theater II. Walt Disney's IJlagnificently done animated classic about the charmed life of a young maiden. ...Andjustice for All (times unavail­able). Forum Theater III.A criminal lawyer fights against the system. Starring AI Pacino. Meteor ·~at 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, and 9:30. 
Town and Country I. When the eanh is threatened by a series of meteor­ites, British scientists join forces with teams from the U.S. and Russia to combat the danger. (Shown with "Killer Fish", starring Edward T revvett. Joe Moji, Scott Lund, Chris Cipoletti, and T. Barcrand.) Starting Over at .1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, and 9:45. Town and Country II. Burt RevGolJs stars in this Hlm about a newly:divorced man and the adl"ust­ments he is forced to make in his ife. With Candice Bergen as his liberated "ex", and Jill Clayburgh as the new woman in his life. 
Apocalypse Now (times unavailable). River Park Theater. Francis Ford Coppola's self-styled "masterpiece" that deals with a man caught between 
civilizaL~vn and savagery aurmg the Viet Nam war: 

Six of us were sitting in a circle of friendship, provisioned with fruit, cookies, and fig newtons, as though we were outward bound for the heavy seas. Boiling pots ofwater, waiting to be poured on leaf and bean, comfort­ed us against the fear of being like 
. those hapless voyagers whose thirst drives them crazy until they end up drinking each other's blood. 
The conversational oars were lower­ed into the undertow of reflection, and we tried to move with the tide onto waters beyond the safety of harbors. There on an unfamiliar sea 
darkness.'' 

The Onion Field at 1:45, 4:25, 7:05, and 9:30. University Park I. The true story of the kidnapping of two Los Angeles policemen and the brutal murder of one of them by the criminals. StarringJohn Savage and 
James Woods. 10 at 2:00, 4:45, 7:30, and 9:45. University Park II. An adult romantic comedy about the affair between an aging Hollywood composer and a beautiful young star. Starring Dudley Moore, Julie Andrews, and Bo Derek. Skatetown, U.S.A. at 1:45, 3:30, 5:25, 7:45 and 10:00. University Park 
III. A disco-rollerskating film featur­ing the music of many of today' s disco stars. When a StranRer Calls nowhere. 
PERFORMANCE --ON CAMPUS 
Friday and Saturday, November 9 and 10. The Notre Dame Student Players present "Stop The World, I Want To Get Off! at 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. Friday, November 9 at 8:00 in Stepan Center: The Pure Prairie League performs on the campus. Tuesday, November 13 at 3:00 p.m. in Washington Hall: Andre Kole . an accomplished illusionist, brings his own "magic" to Notre Dame. Wednesday, November 14 at 8:15 in the Library Auditorium: Soprano Anne Perillo performs. PERFORMANCE --OFF CAMPUS Friday, November 9 at 8:00: Michael Muryhy performs at the Morris Civic Audrtorium with special guest Jerry 
] eff Walker. AT VEGETABLE BUDDIES: Friday and Saturday, November 9 and 10: Duke Tumatoe and the All Star Frogs. "The Midwest's Mad­dest character", Duke brings his own soecial blend of pulsating blues and infectioJus rhythms to South Bend. 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
"The sea is empty, and the sky is empty," said our navigator. "God watches everything in silence." .''In the morntng and evening, the sky ts full of birds," our captain said. "All night long, when the stars are 
out,  dolphins  swim  on  banks  of  
silver."  
"Is  there  a  plan?"  asked  the  

navigator. "Before there was a motion and movement of birds and fish, was there and is there a design for creation?'' 
Th~t. was the question; and in proviswnedcomfon,we sent forth our 

responsible for genocide," they said. 
"He  lets  it  happen  but  He  isn't  
responsible."  
"Speaking of God,"  I could have  

said, "He has helped me kick the habit of smoking. For the first time in thirty years, I feel at peace with unused ashtravs.'' 
''Congratulat.ions,'' they might have replied, understanding more 
about me than they understood about 
the deaths of six million ] ews, 
"t~ough i~'s theologi,~ally risky to 
claim God Intervened. ~,· 
Nevertheless, I think He intervened. Small and private though it was, God had given me a miracle that filled me with embarrassment. 
Nobody noticed I wasn't ~moking, and I didn't tell them. W'e were looking for signs that God has been busy, but nobody looked at me. 
If you're looking for evidence of the existence of Omnipotence, the moral miraclesdon'tshow. The h('locausts of the nations make God look as though He's having troubles being Father to His world. 
In the journey you take in a circle of friendship, it doesn't matter whether the tides move in, or the tides move out. The important thing is the provisions. Provisions keep you cheerful til the end of the Journey. Cheerfulness is of itself a sign of the fellowship ofGod. Food is what some of us have in place of smoking. 
His N atne Is Baldwin 
bn Sunday, the 11th of November, the noted essayist, novelist, and playwright, James Baldwin, will give a lecture to the Notre Dame commu­nity. He will be speaking in the Library Auditorium at 7:30p.m. Mr. Baldwin has been called the ''most perceptive black spokesman ... and perhaps the most eloquent.'' Those who have read his works would probably agree with this statement, and many would want to remove the term "black" as a restriction. 
It is certain that Mr. Baldwin received this compliment with mixed emotions, because he left this country in the late 40's to avoid being labelled "merely a Negro writer." While in Paris, he wrote his Hrst novel, Go Tell It on the Mountain, which dealt with the religious conver­sion of a fourteen year-old boy and his career as a preacher. He also wrote his second novel, Giovanni's Room, during his ten year stay in Europe. 
When he returned to the United States, he was shocked by the living conditions suffered by blacks throughout the country' especially in the deep South. His anger showed through in his writing whtch included a collection of essays titled, Notes of a Native Son. These essays were reflections on the changing state of White-Black relations. Baldwin also used these essays to show how the racism and preJudice that affected Blacks and other minorities also victimized those who practiced intol­erance. This idea is present in his play, Blues for Mr. Charlie and two other collections of essays, The Fire 

Charles Wood 
Next Time, and Nobody Knows My Name. 
Mr. Baldwin talked about this idea in an interview with Kenneth Clark in 1963. He said, "What white people have to find out in their own hearts is why it is necessary to have a nigger in the first place .. .I'm not a nigger, I'm a man, but if you think I'm a nigger, it means you need it." In this way, his writings are as much about the problems of those who must rely on senseless prejudices, either overtly or subtly, as it is about the plight of Blacks and other minorities them­selves. 
This is obviously not a popular 
message, but Baldwin delivers it with 
a sensitive, insightful, and often 
chilling style that demands attention. 
He has, in fact, received numerous 
awards during his career. Nobody 
Knows My Name was cited as an 
Outstanding Book by the American 
Library Association; Blues for Mr. 
Charlie shared the Foreign Press 
Association's dramatic award for 
1963-64 with Arthur Miller's After 
the Fall. His latest novel, just Above My Head, is already receiving similar critical acclaim. 
I~ additi?n to his talk on Sunday, the Wrtter Will speak in Prof. Linda Beard's Afro-American Literature class on Monday. He is coming for both of these lectures as a guest of the Black Studies program. Mr. Edward Blackwell, the acting Direc­tor of the program, believes that these talks will be valuable for all students and faculty of Notre Dame 1 


he Observer Friday, November 9-' 1979-page 15 
Take down the w-all, open the gate 
•

Kate Farrell 
.E~st is east. and ~est is west, and can the twain ever meet? Rudyard K1phng desparred ofIt, the Manchu emperors built the Great WaU to keep out the Western hordes, and Mao's little Red Book is filled with admonitions to avoid such encounters. But Monday night at O'Laughlin Auditorium, the Cloud G~te ~ance ~eatre of Taiwan proved the naysayers wron~ with an extraordmarily beautiful program that wedded Western techruque with Oriental legend and drama. 
Taiwan's frrst modern dance troupe, Cloud Gate is the brainchild of artistic director and chief choreographer Lin Hwai-min who founded the company in 1973 in the hopes of using the classical and modern dance techniques of the West to express Chinese themes. Over the past six years, the corr:k~y has developed a repetoire that ranges from contemporary abstract '' ce for motion's sake' ' works that show heavy Western influence to story ballets based on Chinese mythology. Monday's performance offered evidence of this stylistic versatility. 
The most ''Western'' ofthe night's works was ''Nu Wa,'' brilliantly danced by guest artist Tina Yuan. The ballet is inspired by the myth of the goddess Nu Wa, the mother of mankind. According to Chinese legend, she created human beings out of mud, and when an angry god knocked down one of the pillars that sup~oned the heavens, she saved mankind by repairing the pillar with jade. While the inspiration may have been Chinese, the choreography owes a large debt to Western modern dance: twisting, tortured stretches of the arms and upper body accompanied by a heavy, ominous piano score. 
"On the Horseback" and "The Crossing of Black Water" demonstrated a more balanced blend of the two styles. "Black Water" recounts the story of Taiwan·~ "pilgrim fathers," pioneers who immigrated from the Chinese mainland three hundred years ago, and overcame bad weather, mutiny and disease to find freedom and prosperity on Formosa. "On the Horseback" derives its motif from a Chinese folk song, and the dance patterns of the corps closely resemble the rhythms of traditional folk dancing. "Horseback" gave the male corps a chance to shine with a whip cracking pas de cinq that took full advantage of their technical strength and physical virility. After seeing that 


'he Cooking Business Is Killing Me 
''Oh, I remember you, you are such a good cook!'' 
The man left the room, leaving me watching Cathy and pondering his words. Imet this man, a/riest, many years ago in Rome, an we haven't seen one another for perhaps ten years. A few days ago we met again, by chance, at the Memorial Hospital-, at the bedside of a young woman who was very sick. We talked for a while without recognizing one another, and finally I introduced myself and I looked at his nametag. We marvelled at a few things, talked about Rome, happy to find one another again. Then he left and he said, standing at the door: "Oh! I remember, you are such a good cook! ' ' 
During the past week three men have said the same thing to me; it really hit me. Then I thought of some of the lady friends I have, and what they would say about me. 
"Oh! Vittoria," Nan would say "she is fun. No matter how depres~ 
sed  we  are  when  we  start  our  
conversation,  we  always  wind  up  
laughing, like silly girls."  

Dorothy would say, ''At times Vittoria does not understand at all the books we discuss, but generallv she 
has good ideas about the reading."· 
(Dorothy is a teacher). 

Ann would say, "I do not under­stand it! Jusr because we both speak with an accent, how can people confuse me with her! Her French is 
not  that  good  and  I  am  much  
younger,"  (and  prettier,  I  would  
say).  

Marcia would say, "Vittoria is a nut. She is always thinking of mentally retarded people and their rroblems. Ifyou are not careful, she'l have you volunteer to work for them.'' 
My daughter would say, "I like my Mom, but when the humidity is high (or low, ·who knows) her accent becomes very thick and she makes so many mistakes that I don't know whether to cry or laugh.'' 
June would say that I am a very faithful friend, that she can always Lall me and I would never say that I am too busy and I don't have time to spend with her. None of the ladies I know would say, "Oh my, you are such a good cook!'' 
I wonder: why do I not like being told that? 
Would I be happier if the priest had said, ''Oh! Vittoria, I remember; you have enormous feet," or "I remem­ber: your apartment in Rome was so small, but there was so much warmth ~u~d frienJl~m=~~ ~~~ il," or even, "I work, one was a little disappointed that men were not used more often . 
(Cloud Gate is a feminist company; most of the difficult and challenging 
choreography falls to the women.) 

."Red Kerchief' is a ballet to delight a romantic. In this piece, a young 
bnde-to-be worr~es about the fiance ch?sen for her by her parents: will he be 
a gentle and lovmg husband or a lo~ttsh brute? A couple dressed in white 
danced out her fantasy, and a couple m green enacted her fear with a violence 
so explicit that one was tempted to go up on stage and put a stop to the work. 
''R~d Kerc~ief'' (which, by the way, refers to the uaditional headgear of 
Chmese brtdes) could have been a very saccharin work, but the elegant 
ch~reography ?f Cheng Shu-gi and a very playful and "pretty" score by Lai 
De~-ho saved 1t from campy melodrama, and uansformed it into a very 
believable story of the hopes and fears of a naive girl. 

''Revenge of a Lonely Ghost'' and ''The Tale of the White Serpent'' were 
the nyo works that ~bowed the East~rn stylistic influence on the Western 
techmque: a classtcal arabesque wnh an odd quirk the arm and head 
movements of Oriental dance coupled with balleuc le~ps. ''Revenge of a 
Lonely Ghost,'' adapted from the opera ''Wu Peng Chih'' tells of the effons of 
~he ghost of. :1 •murdered man to see justice done and his murderers 
unprtsoned. A kindly, elfish old man takes pity on the ghost and appeals his 
case to Heavenly ] ustice, and the two crimmals get their just dessens. 
"Th~ Tale ofthe White Serpent" is one ofChina's most J>?pular fairy tales. 
The spl!'lts of the W:hite and Green Serpents fal.l in love wtth a young student 
Hs~ Hsten and magtcally transform themselves mto a lady and her maid. The 
Whue Serpent seduces Hsu Hsien, but after their marriage, she accidentallY. 
reveals her true form to him. Horrified Hsu Hsien seeks advice from an evll 
Buddhist monk whose solution is to imprison the White Serpent in a bamboo 
pag~da. Hsu Hsien then rc:alizes he has betrayed his love, and now must 
suffer the consequences of hts treachery. The two Serpents --White Se!J>ent 
Wu Shu-chung and Green Serpent Du Bih-tau --danced the most difficult 
choreograp~y of the _night wit~ uemendous elan and technical virtuousity. 
Wu can proJect the slightest twttch ofher fingers to the last row as she slithers 
across the stage, and Du apparently has rubber bands for a rib cage . 
. T~r~ug~our tJ:te performance, . Cloud Gate maintained extraordinarily tight dtsctpltne m thetr ensemble dancmg and an impressive technical profiCiency. The corps danced cleanly, and even managed to synchronize all the small arm and head f!!Ovem~nts called for by the choreography. The women are extremely hght, a1ry dancers with quick feet and incredible flexibility; the men show great strength and energy. . But .these dan~ers are not soulless marionettes. They possess a dramatic mtenstty every btt as outstan~ing as their technical ability, and an histronic range that can ponray the dehcate apprehensions of a young girl as easily as the black revenge ofa mu~dered man. Sometimes, the drama becomes almost too .overwhelmmg; the viOlent scenes are performed so explicitly that one bf?gms to worry about t~ose spectators under the age of seventeen admitted Wlt~out parent or guardtan. . 
F1~ally, the chorf?ography and rep.etoire of Cloud Gate gives the dancers ~axtmum. opportumty to develop therr technical and dramatic gifts. Artistic drrector Lm takes full advantage of the freedom and tremendous variety his stylistic union ofEast and West offers him. He also knows how to wodaround the strengths and weakness.es of his dancers, and his choreography looks good on those who perform tt. 
And. so, on Monday night, the Cloud Gate Dance Theatre bridged the centunes-old gap between Orient and Occident with grace and elegance. 
Would that ping-pong diplomacy could work as well. 

remember, you were so beautiful in Rome! Too bad it is all gone now. '' As I never was a ravishing beauty, as I do have enormous feet, and as I try to be fri~ndly, yes , I would be happy to be remembered for those simple reasons. He might have said, "I remember when we discussed the 'Julius Caesar' you saw at the theatre with your favorite Italian actor, Vittorio Gassman, how excited you were." But you, as the other two men, remember me as a good cook! 
Bill, too, said that. He could say to me, "I know a student of yours who likes your course very much," (or, on a rainy day, "he hates your cou;~e and thinks you are a rotten. teacher ) . He could say, "Your children are always very polite; you taught them good manners. '' 
Why is it that men seem to prize the cooking of a woman? Why ts it that I don't like being told that I am a good cook? 
Ifl am a good cook now, when I die, will people say of me, "Too bad, she was such a good cook?'' The feeling of nothingness I ·felt when I was young; was it caused by the fact that I didn't know how to cook? 
I don't dare to ask my husband. ''You know why I married you, my dea~," he would ~a~ suavely, ,leaving 

Vittoria Bosco 
me lf1 complete darkness and angui­
shed doubt as I was born and lived for 
many years in Bologna, the Italian 
city famous for its excellent cuisine. 
I do not dare to ask my two sons; 
they ate too many leftovers, and they 
know better. 

I don't dare ask a man I know on the 
Notre Dame campus. We met at least 
seven years ago, and we see one 
another regularly at certain meet­
ings. He keeps calling me Virginia 
(nothing wrong with that name, but it 
is a matter of principle: my name is · 
Vittoria). He was never in my house; 
he heard me give a lecture once, but I 
can feel it in my bones that if I ask 
him what he thinks of me, he would 
exclaim, "Virginia! Oh you are such 
a terrific: cook! ' ' 

I know that they mean well, and 
maybe there is some truth in the old 
saying "The way to a man's heart is 
through his stomach.'' (Someho~ I 
do not find this old saying either 
poetic or appealing, but I didn't 
mvenr it). And I am not even against 
my role as a woman in our society, 
somewhat different fro~he role of a 
man. But I cannot help feeling low 
when I hear, "Oh! Vittoria, you are 
such a good cook! ... " 
And, besides, it isn't even true. 

,­
< 
\ \ 
~· 
'~ 
\I') 
~ 1 
\~ 
\\ 
\~ 
,,) 
\ 
,.,( \ 
;f, 
\ 
~l 
\ 
~ 
i 
. (' 
\ '· 

.' :~­
' < 
' 
I -.' ,' 
' 
f 

.l: 
IL
11' 
I I, 

i' 
. \ 
! 
I 
~ 
ji 
~ ,' 
I, 
h·) 
'I
i
'', 
r 
) 
l 
.;. 


Friday, ~ember 9, 1979 -page 16 
Commission record store runs
~7tARRY CHAPIN 

smoothly; Day forsees discounts
appcHUing D.c. 7, 8:00pm 
hy Tim Vercellotti 
In mid-September, the Service

Sunday, Nov. 11 8:00 pm Commission launched a venture that would give students the opportunity to purchase albums at reduced price. The Record Sale was then opened on a permanent basis. Such a thing 
Stepan Center 
Umlt 10 Tickets J6~50 J5.50 
had not been done before, so the organizers were cautiously optimistic at best. 
The sale has been in operation for eight weeks now, and
Go on sale Nov. 12 9:00 pm 
manager Michael Day is pleas­ed to say that things are 
beginning to move smoothly. "We had a few problems in the beginning, with mixed-up 
Student Union Ticket Office 
orders and such, but that is to be expected from any enter­prise when you first start out,'' Day explained. 
"Business was rather slow in the beginning, due to a few things. One was the fact that 
also available at ACC Gate 10 
students were leery of the sale because of the problems experi­enced in last year's record sale. 
JR. CLASS 
BARN DANCE 
Another difficulty was that the sale relied solely on word of 
mouth, due to the high cost of advertising. 
"Business did pick up, how­ever, during the weeks before break, and this has continued 
HAYRIDE 
SATURDAY, 
since then,'' Day commented. The process for purchasing albums entails going to the
NOV. 10 9-1 
Ticket Office, located on the second floor of LaFortune (any­time between 12 p.m. and 4 p.m., Mondays through Wed­nesdays), finding the album listing in one of the catalogues, 

Tickets-13.50 each 
-sold In dining halls 
and then ordering and paying for the selection. The order will
ot thtough hall teps 

arrive the following Wednesday or Thursday. 
music ptovlded by 
Don't forget the...
Otphan refreshments-elder, munchies, 
TWIRLIN' 
marshmallows, and other fun stuH 
STOMPIN' GOBBLIN' 
L 
BASEMENT, NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL LEGAL ~ID & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION ROOM 6·12 283·7795 11 am · 2 pm ( M · F) other times by appointment 
STUDENTS & $JAfF 
NATURAL FOODS RESTAURANT 
.Soda Fomain, Juice Bar There is a chance that the 

requested album may not be 
available. In this case the 
money will be refunded. 

Now that the Record Sale is firmly established, Day is even more optimistic about the fu­ture. There are many reasons for this enthusiasm; among them is the fact that one of the ~ecor? companies 1s lowering lts pr1ees. 
''Columbia Record Company has reduced the price on al­bums by such artists asBilly Joel, Dan Fogelberg, and Log­gins and Messina,'' Day re­vealed, ''and we are expecting other companies to follow suit.'' 
''Another cause for optimism is the fact that with Christmas approaching, more people will want to take advantage of the Record Sale's lower prices," Day continued. 
Security aids women 
by Michael Mader 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's girls needing to walk alone late at night can do so with some peace of mind, due to the efforts of Security on each campus. 
If requested, a Security offi­cer will escort a student from a parking lot to her dorm or from one campus to the other. This service has been provided for the past six years. 
Glenn Terry, Director of Se­curity at Notre Dame, said this 
303 SOUTH MICHIGAN ST. 
Carry-Out MenuSouth Bend, ln. 46601
J.D.Crowe &The New South 
Full Service Dining
Phone 288-1911 
November 17, 1979.....8 pm 
Student Special 
~--------­
ELKHART MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL 
1$}00 OFF I 
California Road (an extension of Day Road) 
I any ainner after 5 pm I 
I Offer good with**** I
Tickets: Elkhart Truth •Templins 
L 
Coupon and Student ID I 
•River City Records • Imperial Music 

-----------------· 
eat door eor Call 293-9619 
Open: Mon. thru Thurs. 10 am-8 pmFn. and Sat. 10 am -9 pm 

..___,.A.JPONSORED BY EXCE.._____. ~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.:l 
. ' .... -~_,. . . 
-::-·-( ., • . ·~ ,, • ~ ~ •• -. : r.-' 
.;. ._~ / ·,~. -; :~.:~-~~;. ;::.:~:~~:~
•• -<-_..':1·~ • : 
~ ~~ <> ~-.... ~--~ w ._. ,. ' ..... :· J:".' ."!-_-·-.:;. 9·.' 
Day went on to say that with the addition of a cut-out cata­logue (expected within a few weeks) even more records will be made available to students. 
Thus far over 600 albums have been purchased through the Student Union Record Sale. This amounts to roughly $2800 worth of records, which is far short of last year's total sales. Day explained this by pointing out that last year's sale took place for a week only, and people were rushed to get what they wanted. Now, with the sale operating on a permanent ba­sts, the buying will be spread out over a longer period of time. 
Day is confident about the sale's future, his only wish is that he could get some volun­teers to assist him with the paperwork that goes alon~ with a sale. ''With the adduional help things can go even smoother," Day claims. 
service is usually provided on foot. "For example, if it's dark and one or two g1rls want to go -to another dorm but feel it's unsafe, we'll send a man to walk over with them," Terry suggested. 
w 
Sometimes the mode is vehi­cular, however. A girl driving on campus late at night can ask for an escort at the gate. She'II then drive to her parking space and wait for Security to come and drive her to her dorm. "We ask that they (the girls) lock their doors and leave their lights on while they're waiting so the officer can find them when he drives up," Terry added. 
Anthony Kovach, the Direc­tor of Security at St. Mary's, said the same services were provided on that campus. "Deterrence is the main thing. If someone sees a Security car or Security personnel on foot, he is 99 percent less likely to attempt anything," he said. 
Both directors emphasized a cooperative effort in escorting the girls between the two campuses. "If a girl is at the front gate and wants to get back to St. Mary's, we like to notify St. Mary's Security. We then drive the girl to the back gate where St. Mary's can pick them up across the highway," Terry • said. The colle~e will. provide the same servtce for Notre Dame students, according to Kovach. 
The Sec...rity forces will honor all requests for an escort and are very prompt, unless cir­cumstances (emergencies, for example) cause a delay. 

There are no complaints from the Security officers in regard to this serv;re. ··Actually, the guys in Se<.. urity enjoy doing it occasionall} as a break from the routine," o1tered Kovach. 
Play starts 
tonight 

The Norre Dame Student Players wd1 present their pro­duction of the musical-comedy "Stop the World--I Want to Get Off'' tonight and tomorrow. The performances will begin at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission is $1.50. 
,. . 


The Observer Friday, November 9, 1979 -page 17 
SMC JUSttce social group 
•

organtzes 
F acuity, staff, and students interested in an association with a Saint Mary's Justice Education Committee are invit­ed to come to an organizational meeting, Tuesday, 12:15 p.m. in Madel eva 249. 
Activities of the informal group have included a weekend of reflection, the development of a course entitled CHRIS­TIANS AND JUSTICE, and a proposed noon seminar on Re­newing the Earth: Catholic Documents on Peace, justice, and Liberation. 
Persons interested, but who can not be at the organizational meeting on Tuesday, should contact one of the members of the group: Rita Cassidy, Sister Miriam Cooney, Sister Veronice Fisher, Penny Jameson, Sister Elena Malits, Sister Maria C. McDermott, and Peter Smith. 
Lawyers to meet at U.M. 
The 1979 Midwest Regional Conference on Women and the Law will be held at the Univer­sity of Michigan Nov. 9, 10, and 
11. Twenty workshops will be offered on a broad ran~e of topics including, Women m rhe Business World, Rural Law, and Beyond Title VII and Title 
X. Registration information 
may be obtained by calling 313-767-4158 
·The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  28  Reserve  46  Seat of  24  Contraction  
1 Eatery  supply  power  25  -you go  
coffee  29  Tank fluid  49  Wise  26  Rumbling  
5 Aramis'  32  Tapestry  50  Farrow of  27  City in  
weapon  33  Greco  films  England  
10 Dinero unit  34  Doughnut  53  Indeed!  28  Karloff  
14 -my word!  center  56  Zilch  29  Meant  
15 Ovid's book  35  Indeed!  57  Laundry  30  Drop one­ 
16 Repeatedly  38  Bam's  unit  (write to)  
17 Indeed!  river  58  One against  31  Caballero  
20 Before tee  39  Give out  59  -out  33  Door  
21 Yarborough  40  Liberace's  (made do)  features  
card  instrument  60  Swordfish  34  Lifting  
22 Culpable  41  Rialto sign  snout  device  
23 Tastes  42  Boxer's  61  Get lost!  36  Impasses  
liquid  punches  37  Initiated  
24 Secondhand  43  Ms. Prynne  DOWN  42  A Fonda  
25 Quality  44  Tablets  1 Springtime  43  Exodus  
arousing  45  Bivouac  2  Gl mail­ 44  -over  
pity  unit  drops  (studied)  
3  Pledges  45  Acquisitive  


4  Unspecified  one  
amount  46  Newcastle's  
5  Uses a  river  
straw  47  Angler's  
6  Electrifies  need  
7  Be biddable  48  Mystic  
8  Out to pas­ symbol  
ture: abbr.  49  To-do  
9  Small fish  50  Ho Chi­ 

10 Hardy duck 51 Division 11 Malefic word 12 Mailed 52 Exchange 13 Drunken premium 
revelry 54 Mispickel, 18 Torpid for one 19 Sneak about 55 Law men, 
Tonight at Regina 

Coffeehouse planned 
The assistant hall director of Regina Hall, Amy O'Dowd and interested members of the hall staff are sponsoring the Regina Hall Coffeehouse tonight in the Regina Hall Auditorium. The evening will consist of live entertainment provided by stu­dents from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. An admission 

r-------------,
I I FREE PITCHER I I 
I OF SOFT DRINK ~ I Buy any Family Size pizza and get a I pitcher of your favorite beverage FREE 
I I
with this coupon. Limit one coupon perI pizza ordered. No other 
I offer valid. 
I I 
Expires_l_l..::.._/--=15~/...:.....;79~­
I 
PiZZA I 

ISHAKEY'S PIZZA PARLOR PARLOR II 2313 E Edison Rd........289-5555 I 323 E Ireland Rd..........291-7500
L-------------J 
Wanted: 

charge of 50 cents will be charged for the refreshments. 
Depending on the success of tonight's program, the staff hopes to sponsor similar events throughout the year. 

Rivet City Records Presents••• 


' 
... 



iM 



While 1,500 coupons last, get a ftee Big mac~. tm' coupon with every album, tape, blank tape or concert ticket putchased at Rivet City Recotds, 50970 U.S. 31 North-3 miles North of campus! 
Big mac, coupons will only be honoted at mcDonald'a®of Roseland, 
TM 
52665 U.S. 31 North-1mile North of campl4s, and will be valid until Novembet 16, 1979. 
Rivet City Recotds "Nolthetn Indiana's Latgest SelectioP" of Roseland 50970 U.S. 31 North 277-4242 52665 U.S. 31 North 277-0810 ownen Pete1 J. Ketnan 

ownet: Chuck Watson (N.D. '65) 
N.D. '75 




"-. 41

r . 
'\)\ -~ ·" 
~. 
~~ 
!1 ' \ 
\~ 
~\ 
\\ 
\~ 
)' '. 
'"'\
\' 
t \ ,' 
~ \ 
''. ' 
·L ·~ \ 
' \ 
. \ 
j 
'j 
~ ' 
: I.: \ ·, \ 
1. ' 
~\~ 
):\ 
)! 
. \. .:~ \ 
\ \ 
~l 
' ~ 
I'\ 
; \' 
ll ~~ 
) ~ 
) 
. I l 
r 
l
i 
.I 

I J 
I\ 
~ . 
I !
I , , ~ :· 
i'
'·' 
The Observer -Sports 
Ball St. 
1nvest1gates pot charges 
•
aga1nst players 
Molarity 

Pigeons 


""":' 'I 
-
MUNCIE, Ind. (AP) -Athletic department officials at Ball State University plan to investi­gate charges that members of the school's football team smoked marijuana before last Saturday's game. 
''There is no question in my mind that we have some users on the team,'' athletic director Ray Louthen said. "We will find out who they are and they will be eliminated from our football program." 
Ball State won the Mid-Amer­ican Conference game against Eastern Michigan, 28-10. 
Ray Louthen says he is con­vinced that some of the school's football players smoked mari­juana the night before the game. 

The campus newspapers, the Daily News, quoted four un­identified football players ear-. 
Jl!SVS' TEACHING Wl6 
RE/..IGIOUS NJD SOCiAl-NOT 
R>L.InCAL. RE"fE~ ~ 
Ul\ITO CAE'SAR " 71IE 
5Al>DUC£ES WN/TEP HIM ~AD
1 
Bvr i:JEWISH LAN FbPaV> 1r. 


...,..._ '"t ttJIJl..,,l I ·-.~ \. ,,.., 0 ttl· 
CONCERTS WEST PRESENT 
EAGLES 
THE LONG RUN 
TOUR 79 
I IiiiiIId lit I IlliG II IIIII I I lhdOdlt I d II II IDiii 115 II DUD Iii1J DihiiiJ nTlTTf"Tl 
Don He11lcy • Glenn Frey Don Felder ·Joe VVczlsh Tilnothy B. Sch11zit 
Friday Nov. 16 8pm Notre Dame ACC 
All seats reserved front stage $12.50 Rear Stage 10&$7.50 tickets on sale ACC Box Office 9am 
to 5pm also usual ACC outlets and 
River City RecordsStores in So. Bend and Mishawaka 

Friday, November 9, 1979 -page 18 
lier this week as saying some players were smoking mari­juana Friday night in the Kit­selman Conference Center, a large campus complex where most players stay the night be­fore a home game. 
The paper said assistant foot­ball coach Kurt Humes smelled marijuana smoke in a third­floor room where 35 players were housed, but did not see any players because the lights were out. 
The football coaching staff is investigating the allegations. 
''We have reason to believe something may have oc­curred,'' said Coach Dwight Wallace. "We are investiga­ting the possibility and will act accordingly.'' 
Loud:len said, ''It definitely has occurred in the past from information we have received.'' 
by Michael Molinelli 
8a:AU5f' ROM~ HAD TO £X£Cl./TF JESUS POLJ1KAL 
CHAR651.YERE FA~IC~ 

l.J"'
-
,. .. 
[continued from page 20) 

the Navy contest with a mild shoulder sprain. QB Rusty Lisch will be looking to Hunter and tight end Dean Mastzak, the team leader with 20 recep­tions, in facing a tough Vols' secondary that has picked off 11 
enemy passes to date. 

The Volunteer defense fea­tures only three senior starters. Players to watch include free safety Roland ] ames and line­backer Craig Puki. 
This is the same Tennessee squad that scared the daylights 
TAANK YaJ FOR SIX REQUIRED CREDIT-S 
IN TH£OL06Y 

WOIILJ> YW 
I.IKE A 81Bl.E? 
"JftSUS~T3 GREATESTHI15~ 


by McOure/Bymes 
cyF~~§© 

• 
" 

PRESENTING.: 
An Evening With Livingston Taylor 
Wednesday Nov. J4 Bpm o•taughlin Aud 
·Reserved Seats -$5.00 

• • . Irish 
out of Bear Bryant's boys with 17 quick, unanswered points before succumbing 27-17 in Birmingham two weeks ago. If the Irish can contain Streater, 
as they did in a hard-fought 31-1'4 victory a year ago, they could overcome the vociferous Vol ru..Jters and an aroused Tennessee team. 
GREEN STUFF -This meeting (on astro-rurf, by the way) of Notre Dame and Tennessee marks the final regular season game between the two teams until at least after 1985. The 
Vols will be replaced by the likes of Arizona and Alabama on the 1980 schedule....Worth watching: The UT "Pride of 
the Southland" marching band at halftime. The game will be televised locally. 
• • • 0-C 
[continued from page 20) 
Kelly stressed the point that rule changes could be discussed and were always open for improvement. .. .after the sea­son was over. 
"We belabored the point as to whether my banishment was right or wrong. At my hearing, I was given a fair say. But it seemed to me that they were caught up in whether it was right or wrong to change a rule," said Murphy. 
Stangely enough, Holy Cross, which had lodged the original protest changed their stance according to Murphy and had come out in his favor. 

Coach Kevin Bauer of another Central Division rival, Carroll Hall, simply stated, "Dave's worked hard to get his team organized, He deserves a chance to see it through." 
As it looms now, with the ineligible status of 0-C and its subsequent forfeiture of games played, Holy Cross would be­come the division leader in the Central loop. 
"I'm really disenchanted," Murphy sighed. ''I though interhall football was set up for all students. I p;uess I shouldn't be bitter but I am.'' 



The Observer -Sports 
Friday, November 9, 1979 -page 19 
Broncos 
try to forget 'frightening' ga01e 
( AP]-It's the kind of game Jim Zorn and the rest of the Seattle Seahawks would just as soon forget -but, as Floyd Little and Scotty Glacken have discover­ed, it ain't that easy. 
When the final gun cracked last Sunday, the Seahawks had established a National Football League record for futility, wind­ing up with a total offense of mmus seven yards in their 24-0 loss to Los Angeles. 
That surpassed a mark of ineptitude which had stood for more than a dozen years, dating back to Denver's ) 1-0 loss in Oakland on Sept. 10, 1967, when Little, Glacken and the rest of the Broncos finished with minus five yards. 

"I can still see 'em all stand­ing there, " recalled Little. "There was Big Ben Davidson, and there was Gus Otto, and Dan Conners and Carlton Oats and Ike Lassiter and . . . oh, God, it was frightening!" 
Little's performance in that game was typical of the Broncos -seven rushes for four yards. "I remember thinking, 'If this is what life's gonna be like in the NFL, I'm in serious trouble.' '' The whole Denver team was in serious trouble from its incep­
tion in the American Foothill 
League in 1960 until Coach 
John Ralston guided it to 
1970's, and nobody knew it 
better than Lou Saban, who 
coached the Broncos from the 
start of the 1967 season until he 
couldn't take it any more, 
quitting after nine games in 
1971. 
"Poor Lou," said Little. "I 
remember when we got into the locker room at halftime he told us if we didn't get out there and do something -anything -in the rest of the game, he was going ·to leave everybody in Oak­
land." 

Glacken was a ' 'seasoned' ' _E.!ayer with the Broncos by then, starting his second year. It turned out to be his last. Now he's a partner in an investment firm and the football coach at Georgetown \]niversity. 
"Every time I turned around I had a black shirt in my face," Glacken remembered. ''Oak­land had such an awesome team. They were sort of like the Pittsburgh Steelers are, the way they completely dominated you in every aspect of the game. It was a total, complete embarrassment.'' 

.. -.. -' 


\ _' ) -' 
: .
' 
' 

' I 
'v.. 
q '· .J \ • .~ 
r I \ r 
( \' 
i 

by Mike Previte Sports Wn.ter 
The Notre Dame Fighting Irish are on their way to Neyland Stadium on the University of Tennessee campus, where they hope to capture their first-ever road victory over a Southeast Conference school. 
The Volunteers are led by dual-threat quarterback Jimmy Streater, thetr all-time leader in total offense, who has gained a total of 308 successful aerials for 960 yards. 
The elusive Streater, a senior, will be hoping to salvage this "matter of pride," as coach Johnny Majors called it, with a much needed notch in the win column. The Scarlet Knights of Rutgers ruined the Volunteers homecoming (13-7) last week­end, dropping them to 4-3 on the season. 
Majors simply stated that 1t 

Off-Campus loses final appeal 
Friday, November 9, 1979-page 20 
In Tennessee 

Irish face. Streater, speedy Vols 

by Mike Previte Sports Wn"ter 
Dave Murphy·, the coach and quarterback of the Central Divi­sion-leading Off-Campus inter­hall football team was ruled an ineligible player in a decision rendered by the Intramural Athletic Commission yesterday afternoon. · Because of the verdict require the Off-Campus gridsters to forfeit their entire season. 
Murphy, a former signal caller at John Carroll University for tow seasons, had played the entire '78 interhall schedule, in addition to building a nucleus of a 4-0-1 club this semester. 
His banishment from the in­terhall league came as a direct result of a rule which stipulates that a former varsity letter-win­ner who has transferred may not participate in any interhall competition in his particular sport. 

After losing a 3-2 vote in a ballot of athletic commission­ers, the Off-Campus club had filed an appeal with non-varsity athletic dtrector Tom Kelly and Rich O'Leary. Kelly was sym­pathetic to the plight of theO-C team, but plainly stated; "We were reluctant to change a rule once the season had started. But we spoke to as many people as we could on this matter. A majority felt it wouldn't be fair to the other interhall teams.'' 
Murphy had a different angle however. 
''We passed around a petition to all the dorms gathering opinion on the issue. Fourteen out of sixteen signed the survey in our favor. Only Dillion and Stanford voted against it." r.-­
In terms of fair competition, Murphy had these thoughts. "I feel bad for Dillon, Stanford and Morrissey (playoff hope­fuls). I know that all those teams are great opponents with 
Sports Briefs _ _____, 
B-P, Regina take football titles 
One of the highlights ofAn T ostal in the spring is the annual battle between the winners oin the women's flag football championship at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Regtna Hall, who won the SMC championship yesterday by defeating McCandless, 18-6, will be facing Breen-Phillips in the 1980 game. 
B-P won the Notre Dame title just prior to break by defeating Badin, 12-6. 
Meyers signs with Gems of WBL 
CHATHAM, N.J. (AP)-Ann Meyers, who failed in her bid to become the first woman in the NBA, will sign a contract with the New Jersey Gems on Tuesday, the Women's Professio­nal Basketball League team said Thursday. · 
Meyers, who was working as a broadcaster with the Indiana Pacers after flunkin~ a tryout as a player, will arrive in New Jersey Monday and 'will definitely wear a New Jersey Gems uniform this year,'' according to team spokesman Ron Phillips. . 
''Our lawyers have prepared all of the papers to clear the way for Meyers to sign a multi-year contract,'' said Gems president Robert Milo, "and all that remains is for Ann and I to bring along our favorite pens.'' 
The former UCLA standout will reportedly sign a three-year, six-figure deal. She was earning $50,000.h the Pacers. 
• 
a lot of integrity. I don't understand why they wouldn't want to beat us on the playing field. Then there would never be a question as to who 
,,
ld' 
wou ve won. 
[continued on page 18] 

was ''probaoly the most con­vincing whipping I've ever had a football team experience. '' It's safe to say the Vols will be 
up for this one. 

Coach Dan Devine has refer­red to the Volunteer signal caller as "possibly the most elusive back we saw last sea­son." Quite a compliment when you consider the company the Notre Dame mentor is describing. 
On the other side of the line of scrimmage, the Irish defense has proven equal to the task on numerous occasions this sea­son. Soph middle linebacker Bob Crable, who is taking over right where Bob Golic left off, made 19 tackles vs. Navv. 
Defensive end John Hankerd also looms as an important force since he spent half of last week's game in the Middies' backfield (five QB sacks for a net loss of 25 yards). 
Notre Dame will be looking for a way to contain the various backfield combinations used by coach Majors. Tailbacks James Berry and Gary Moore have scooted for 331 and 324 yards respectively. In addition to the speedy scatbacks, the Vols rely on the brute strength of full­backs Terry Daniels, who has 153 yards rushing, and Hubert Simpson, with 278 yards gain­ed, to pose as balanced a running attack as the Irish have faced all season. 
There will be only one change, due to injury, in the ND defense which grudgingly allowed 136 yards against the Navy. Cor­nerback John Krimm will likely miss the balance of the '79 campaign with a reinjured knee, so Freshman Dave Duer­son will ret urn to a starting role in his place. He will have to contend with a talented sopho­more wide receiver named An­thony Hancock, whose 23 pass 
receptions lead the Vols. 

Speaking of offense, Notre 
Dame must find a spark for 
their offense, which lulled ma­
ny viewers to sleep last week 
with its methodical marches 
against a staunch Navy de­
fense. 

Senior halfback Vagas Fer­guson broke the thousand-yard barrier with a 155-yard perfor­mance this past Saturday. He will be joined by the combo of Ty Barber and John Sweeney, who is coming off a sprained ankle to return to action. 
Notre Dame's offensive line, 
however, will need a boost 
since guard John Leon has been 
lost for the season and Ted 
Horansky, his backup, has a hip 
pointer. Freshman Tom Thay­
er, a converted defensive 
tackle, will make his first start 
for the Irish. 

Freshman receiving whiz Tony 
Hunter should also return to the 
lineup this week after missing 
(continued on page 181 
ND icers battle for share of lead 
by Bnan Beglane Sports Wn"ter 
After breaking its share, of the lease on the Western Collegiate Hockey Association cellar with an 8-4, 6-4 sweep last week over Minnesota-Duluth, the Notre Dame hockey team attempts to grab a share of first place tonight and tomorrow when it hosts undefeated league leader Michigan at the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Faceoff tonight is set for 8:00 
p.m. while tomorrow's game is set for 7:30. Both games of the series also will be televised by the Entertainment and Sports Programming Network (ESPN). 
The Irish skate into the series with a 2-2 league record and an overall mark of 3-2. They find themselves implanted in a six­way tie for third place. Michi­gan is the only undefeated team m the WCHA with a 4-0 league record and an overall mark of 6-0. The Wolverines swept Minnesota 5-2 and 3-2 last week. 
''Right now we find ourselves in a position of being able tc 
. control our own destiny,'' says Notre Dame coach Lefty Smith. ''If we win both games against Michigan, we'll be tied for first place. Anyting less and the hole we dug for ourselves by losing rwo to Denver the first week becomes that much deep­er. This series with Michigan is going to be a great challenge, but I think perhaps we are the type of team that thrives on that sort of a test." ­
Perhaps the key to this upcom­ing series will be whether or not Notre Dame can stop Michigan on the power play. The Wolverines have converted on 

19 of 35 power play attempts, times for 61 minutes last week an amazing percentage of .543. at Duluth. Out of the 21 powerNotre Dame's opponents have play attempts which resluted converted on five of 39 power for the Bulldogs, UMD conver­
play chances for a .128 percen­ted only three of them, a fact tage. which pleased Smith. Freshman Bruno Baseotto 
''With the many penalties weleads the Wolverines in scoring had and the injuries that felL onwith 12 goals and seven assists us," said Smith, "we faced afor 19 points. Nine of his goals lot of adversity in Duluth. Buthave been scored while on the we came through when we· hadpower play. Murray Eaves ~o. We.could have folded when 
follows with 15 points while Dan Lerg has 14. · they scored three quick goals in 
Freshman Paul Fricker has the third period Friday, but we missed only one period in goal regained our composure and so far and posts a 3.53 goals­held on. I am very proud of the, aga_inst average for the Wol­way we played. There was a lot vermes. of improvement from our first 
Notre Dame was penalized 29 series against Denver." 






