/ 
Nat 'I Theatre ofthe Deaf-pages 8, 9 

VOL. XIII, NO. 89 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint. mary's TIIURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1979 


A foresaken bicycle andthe Notre Dame wt'nter combine to form a bizan-e creation. [Photo by Dave RumbachJ · 
Chinese troops prepare to deal final blowof SE Asian border conflict 
BANGKOK, Thailand [AP] ­

Tens of thousands of Vietnamese and Chinese troops backed by heavy artillery were on the move toward the Vietnamese town of Lang Son and what could be the I· showdown battle of the five-day­I I r old border war , intelligence 
! sources in Bangkok re{>Oned. The sources said Chinese stra­tegists apparently intend to deal a fmal bloodY. blow to the Vieuiamese rrulitary and then to withdraw most of their forces 
from Vietnam within three or four days. 
Japan's K yodo news service quoted a government official in Peking as saying China hopes to end the conflict within a few days, but the unidentified official warned that it might be pro­longed if Vietnam throws it regular army troops into the fighting. 
That appeared to be just what Hanoi was doing yesterday as columns of regular army rein-
Under US pressure 

Iran releases marine 
TEHRAN, Iran [AP] -Under strong pressure from the United States, Iran's new revolutionary government yesterday released a young American Marine accused of finng on Iranians who invaded the U.S. Embassy. 
Sgt. Ken Kraus, 22, of Lan­soale, PA, who had maintained that none of the embassy's guards "fired a shot," was driven through the gates of the embassy compound yesterday evening after one week as a "prisoner of the revolution." He showed no sign of ill treatment. 
White .House spokesman Jody Powell said Carter and Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance "had made it their No. 1 priority'' to free Kraus. 

His mother, Jane Kraus of Lansdale, PA, learned of her son's release from President Caner. She said, "He told us Kenneth is free on American soil in the American Embassy, and they will try to get him home as soon as possible." 
Kraus' arrest coincided with a demand from Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini' s reveolutionary com­mittee for the extradition from the United States of Gen. Gholam-Ali Oveissi, former mar­tial law governor of Tehran. 

Oveissi' s riot troops forcibly suppressed anti-shah demonstra­tions following last September's imposition of martial law. He flew to the United States early last month, ostensibly for medi­cal treatment. 
His successor, Gen. Mehoi Rahini, has among eight of the ousted Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi' s generals executed by Islamic fighting squads. 
The Iranian foreign and justic ministries were said to have informed .Khomeini that there was no extradition agreement with the United States. Prior to 
[continued on page I 2] 
forcements were reported rolling north toward Vietnamese-held lang Son, a strategically situated town that for centuries has guarded the approaches from China. 
The troops apparently were relieving battered militia units that bore the defensive burden for the first three days of fight­mg. 
The Soviet news agency Tass, meanwhile, said in a report from Hanoi that Chinese troops com­mitted atrocities against Vietna­mese civilians in areas they captured. Tass, quoting Vietna­mese news reports, charged that the Chinese burned down vil­lages and shot men, women and children. 
A reporter for the Soviet newspaper Pravda, in a dispatch 
[continued on page 10] 


Roemer defends right to evict students 
by Tom jackman StaffReporter 
Several Notre Dame students have been evicted this year from their dorms as a result of a housing regulation in both Dulac 
(p.40) and the student housing contract, which allows that, 'the University reserves the right, as stated in the housing contract, to make unilateral changes in room­assignment. No reasons need be provtded.' 
Dean ofStudentsJames A. Roe­mer pointed out in a recent interview that several rectors have exercised their right to remove a student, and cited Keenan and ·Dillon as examples this year. He also noted that Flanner and Pangborn judicial boards have -voted to eVIct stu­
Dillon Rector Fr. Daniel Jenky, 

dents  this  year,  although  the  
Pangborn verdict  was  later  re­ 
pealed..  .  

who has had several students leave his dorm this year, would not discuss specific cases but claimed that ''all of the people who have decided to move offtlus year have only been asked by me to do so.'' 
One student, however, stated yesterday, "I was told, not asked, by my rector to move out, and given one week ... The rector arbitrarily decided I was bad for the hall and gave me no opportu­nity to defend myself." 

While Jenky claimed that he has not exercised his right to eviction, he does be.llcver that "sometimes ·a person's lifestyle just doesn't fit into dorm life, and those people are often happier off campus." He later added that , "Tills might strike you as funny, but we don't really have all that much trouble in Dillon Hall. " 
Roemer added that students who are asked to leave campus as a non-disciplinary action by their rector can appeal to the Adminis­tration's chain of command, starting with Roemer and rising through the Vice President for Srndent Affairs, the Provost and finally the President. 
Any of the latter three can refuse to hear an appeal, Roemer noted, .and each hall's rector does 


Mills securesposition as 1979-BOeditor-in-chief 
Rosemary Mills was elected editor-in-chief of The Observer for the 1979-80 school ytar last night by a majority vote of the advertising, business and production managers, the senior night editor and the editorial board. 
Mills, a junior English major from Bergenfield, NJ, defeated two other candidates for the position which she will assume on March 26. The vote was tallied by Jana Schutt, a member of the Ombudsman election committee. 
Currently serving as editorial editor, Mills began working for the newspaper on the layout staff on which she has served as assistant night editor and night editor. She also has worked for the news department as a staff reporter and senior staff reporter. 
Mills hopes to improve the q,uality of The Observer content, 
noting, ''The paper s new des1gn has made it more unified. 
Now we must focus our attention on the quality of its content." 
have the right to evict any 
student. 

One fact which Roemer stressed 
was that in contractual matters 
such as these, the actions taken 
are non-disci.plinary and do not 
appear on a student's record, 
while disciplinary matters are 
handled through a separate pro­
cess. One student commented 
that he accepted his punishment 
without protest because he did 
not want this sort of blemish on 
his permanent record. 

If the University can utilize this 
power at any time, some students 
raise the question over the neces­
sity of student judicial boards. 
Roemer noted that students 

helped write the DuLac regula­
tion which gives the University 
these abilities. However, he 
added that j-boards are not 
useless, and that their use this 
year has grown greatly. 

Student Body President Andy 
McKenna substantiated this view 
acknowledging that j-boards use 
had increased, though 'they just 
came into widespread use last 
year. ' 

'There was almost no use in 
previous years, and one of the 
rectors was completely refusing 
to use · j-boards. Obviously 

there's potential for an mruvtarial 
rights to be violated,' he said, 
and suggested that 'student gov­
ernment can try to change 

One student who was forced off 
campus said, 'According to Uni­
versity rules, I. was not treated 
unfairly, but I think the rules are 
. " .
unf:rur. 

A typical hypothetical situation which has occured in more than one hall this year generally looks like this: A hall rector has become fed up with the activities of a particular resident. In a well-publicized action in Keenan Hall earlier this year, Keenan Rector Fr. Richard Conyers said in The Observer that a student was asked to move because ''he does not fu into Keenan Hall 
life." 

The rector usualJy asks the student to move off campus in a non-disciplinary action, and the move is not placed on the student's permanent record. It is 
[continued m page 10) 
~-~-· 

New-s in brief 
Senate, Carter compromise on Tawain resolution 
WASHINGTON [A.P] -Leaders of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee averted a confrontation with President Carter by agreein~ on legislation declaring that an attack on Taiwan by China ' would be of grave concern to the United States.'' The committee put off a final vote w1til today, but only the most severe critics of Caner's new China policy on the panel refused to accept the wording of the new compromise. The compromise says the U.S. decision announced laSt Dec. 15 to establish full diplomatic relations with China ''rests on the expectation that any resolution-of the Taiwan issue will be sought only by peaceful means.'' Caner has been resisting any les.islation expressing a U.S. commitment to respond militarily if China moved against Taiwan. The President has been fearful that a 

U.S. pledge to send ~tary forces to. Taiwan's aid would be unacceptable to China· and thus rmght threaten the new relationship with the Peking government. 

CAB tightens airline smoking restrictions 
WASHINGTON [4P} -Tightened restrictions on smoking aboard commercial arrcraft Will take effect Friday. The new Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB) rules follow a study of the problem ofsmoking in the closed conditions of aircraft .. :Besides the fonnal comments and suggestions from or~ed groups, letters and cards from more than 31,000 individuals were considered by the board. Because the CAB found cigar and pipe smoke particularly offensive to nonsmokers, its rule calls for additional segregation of pipe and cigar smokers, with individual airlines being left to decide how to do this. While current rules provide for nonsmoking areas, the new rule will require that ''all'' passengers who want to be in such an area be accommodated and there be a means of expanding the area if necessary. At the minimum, however, the non-smoking area must be at least two rows, and there must be a nonsmokin~ area for each class. Finally, the new rule requires that no smoking be allowed in the aircraft when the ventilation system is not in full operation, such as while waiting for takeoff. 


Teenagers charged in death of 'too strict' father 
ClEVELAND [AP] -Charges were ftled in Juvenile Court yesterday against a teen-age boy and girl accused of paying $60 to have their father killed because he was too strict. Meanwhile, police continued to search for Gerome Watkins, 19, who was named in a murder warraiu in connection with the shooting death of John T. White, 41, of Cleveland. White's 14­year-old daughter and 17-year-old son were charged in Cuyahoga Copunty Juvenile Court with delinquency by reason of aggravateq murder aq~ robbery, said h6nucide Lt. Edward Kovacic. Police said that~; tM"-clithiren removed $60 from their father's wallet, they put the body in a back room and ­'Using their father's credit cards and a $240 payched he had brought home-went on a shopping spree. "He wouldn't let us do anything we wanted, like smoke pot,' detectives quoted the children as saying. White, a highly religious man, kept three Bibles in his living room and made the children observe a 9 
p.m. curfew, police were told. The ftrst names of White's children have not been released. 


Weather 
Mostly cloudy and breezy with a 40 percent chance of rain in the afternoon. Mild with highs in the low 40s. Breezy tonight with a 90 percent chance of rain and lows in the upper 30s. Rain endirig tomorrow with highs in the low to mid 40s. 


s· 

12:30 P.m--F1LM, "keeping ~Qle alive: malnutrition, the 
hidden killer," justice teacli-in II lilm, ENGR. AUD. 4 pm--SEMINAR-.!;:metals-small clusters-chemistry,'' by prof. 
m. schwartz, COr"lr. RM. RAD. LAB 
6:30pm, PANEL DISCUSSION, "the just role of an engineer in society, ~than introduction by father hesburgh, ENGR. AUD. 
7:30 pm--I.EC1URE, "the secularization of the sacred in charlotte bronte," by rose primm, nd grad. student, MEM. IlBRARY LOUNGE 
s.pm--STIJDENT REOTAL, by vocalist jane sampson, UTILE lHEATRE, SMC 
8 pm--CONCERT, "heart", A.C.C., tickets $7 and 8 
8 pm--PLA~."one flew over the cyckoo's nest," presented by st. ed's, in wASHINGTON HAIL, tickets $.50. 
8:30 pm--FTI.M, "harvest of shame," HAYES-HEALY AUD. 

Thursday, February 22, 1979-page 2 

Jazz Festival judging panel features prominent musicians 
by Neal Patterson· 
Bands from M.I. T., Sam Houston State University and Tex,as State University will be among those performing at the 21st annual Collegiate Jazz Festival, scheduled for April6-7 in Stepan Center. 
''This is the oldest and largest collegiate jazz festival in the world,'' festival coordinator Joe Carey stated. 
The festival will open on Friday evening, with afternoon and evening performances. Carey emphaSizes that Friday night's show will be especially entertain­ing since it will conclude with a jam session by the judges. 
"Past festtvals have had a number of prominent figures as judges, and this year's festival is no exception. The judges were selected from all eras and many different areas of jazz," he added. 
Judges for this year's festival are Stanley Turrentine, Buddy DeFranco, Toshiko Akiyoshi, Philly ] oe ] ones and Richard Davis. 
Stanley Turrentine is a tenor saxophonist who Carey describes as a "master of all jazz." Turrentine began his career in the 1950s and has played with many renowned musiClanS, in­cluding George Benson. 
Buddy De Franco, who plays clarinet, began his career during the Swing .Era in the 1940s with Tommy Dorsey. In the most recent poll in Downbeat, a jazz magazine, DeFranco is ranked as the third best jazz clarinetist in the country. 
ToshikQ Akiyoshi is the first female ever to judge the festival. Born in Manchuria, she will add a great deal of "Eastern influ­ence" to the festival, according to Carey. In addition to being a pianist, she is a conductor and an arranger. In Downbeat maga­zine's latest poll, she is ranked as the number one jazz arranger in the nation. 
Philly Joe Jones is a drummer who has been described by jazz critics as the "driving force" behind the Miles Davis quintet in the 1950s and the 1960s. In Jones' length career, he has 
~The Observer_
~N1ght Editors: Dave Brosh and Sherry MMmmert Asst. Night Editor: Ma1ga­ret Kruse Layout Staff: Patsy Camp­bell, john Green, Mille Wiedt, john Smith, Pat Corey Editorial Layout: Tom Beh­ney, Tina Terlaak Features Layout: C.L. M&KJel Sports Layout: Beth Huff man Typists: Lisa, Tom, Beth and Pete Night Controller: Mardi Day Editor: Maribeth Moran Copy Readers: Mare Ulicny, 
Ad Layout: Matt DeSalvo 
Photographer: Mike Bigley 
The Observer [USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year l$10 per semester! from The Observer. P.O. box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

played with many distinguished Jazz artists, including Charles Parker. 
According to music critic Dan 

Morgenstern, Richard Davis is a 
"complete musician." A bass 

player, Davis is famous for his 
diversity, having played with 
such notables as Igor Stravinsky 
and Lena Home. Davis also 
teaches music at the University of Wisconsin. 
In addition to the performances in Stepan, a jazz coll~uium is scheduled for Friday afternoon in CrowleyHall. This infonnal rap session with the judges is open to the public. To precede the festival, a film presentation on the history of jazz is tentatively scheduled for April 3. 
Carey noted that festival atten­dance has been good in previous years, especially from people outside tbe University com­munity. ''I hope that student awareness and attendance can be increased this year, since the festival is one of the few major cultural events on campus,'' he added. 
Education in Justice nominates new members 
The University Committee on Education for ] us rice is in the process of nominating members of 1979-80. Any student (under­graduate or graduate) or faculty member interested in working with the committee is encouraged to apply. 

The committee, now in its second year with 39 members, has as its goal to raise the issue of justice and to facilitate education on its dimensions in all units of research and learning at Notre Dame. 
It is divided into five main subcommittees: 
1) Justice Education, now pre­pann~ for the second annual "Justtce Teach-in," scheduled for yesterday and today; 
2) Experiential Learnin~, re­searching field-based learmng in the various colleges and seeking to initiate further programs; 
3) Administrative Liaison, maintaining relationships with the University and encouraging the naming of an endowed chair in justice; 
4) Communications and Re­sources, publishing a newsletter and the Observer column, ''Just­ice Notes,'' and compiling library resource listings·; 
5) Justice at Notre Dame, investtgating local justice-related issues and facilitating community education on them. 
Those interested in serving on the committee next year or in nominating others are asked to submit the names, along with any particular subcommittee inter­ests, to the Center for Experien­tial Learning, attention Maureen O'Brien, Room 1110 Memorial Libraiy (extension 2788). Perti­nent committee materials are 
available  in  this  office.  The  
deadline  for  nominations  is  
March 1.  




NDp_rof speaks_on 
-I

Renaissance 

Prof. Astrik L. Gabriel, director emeritus of the University of Notre Dame's Medieval Institute and president --of the lnternattonal Commission on the History of Universities, will present one of the major talks at an Ohio State University conference Feb. 23-24. His topic for the con­ference, sponsored by the Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies, will be "IConography of Medieval and Renaissance University Life." 
Other speakers include insti­tute directors or professors at universities in Germany, Indiana, Texas, California, W1Sconsin and Ohio. 
Gabriel is director of Notre Dame's Ambrosiana Collection and one of three noted scholars to receive an honorary doctorate in the 3 70-year history of The Ambrosiana, Europe's first public library. He was cited for making the manuscript holdings of the famed library available to American scholars. 
REGINA HALL PRESENTS: 
The first annual Regina Hall Talent Show 
Friday, Feb. 23rd 8:00pm Admission: .50 
Moreau Little Theater, SMC 
' 

proceeds to benefit the school charity 


, ---------
~ 
5:15 mass and supper 
I 
I

this friday and every friday-cctll)pus ·J 
m1niStry I 
~_...............w.-.-.~.... •-' 
."';'-· 

The Observer 
Coaches select final 
Bowl roster tonight 
by FJien Buddy Saint Mary's Editor 
Final competition to select the staners for Saint Mary's College Bowl team will begin tonight at 8 
p.m. in Regina Auditorium according to Mary Laverty, Col­lege Bowl coordinator. 
The original field of rwelve women was reduced to nine earlier this month to form the All-Star team. Last weekend, another round of competition cut the number of participants to six: Kathy Byrne, Cathy Cowhey, Louise Enyedy, Lisa Fulks, Cathy Loftus and Patty Field. They will compete tonight for the four staning posiuons on the College Bowl team representing Saint Mary's at the Regionals' in March. One team alternate also will be selected. 
Tonight's first two games will be played against the coac~es who helped the teams· dunng intramural competition earlier this year, Laverty said. The last game will be open to any faculty members who are present and wish to participate. 
Mter tonight's games, the coaches will vote on the final decision concernin~ the starters and the alternate. 'The decision will be tough because all these women are very good, and the entire coaching staff 1s impressed,'' Laverty noted. 
The vote is based upon tally sheets the coaches have kept on each I?articipant throughout competuon, according to Laverty. 
The coaches tally the number of times the women have answered, their correct responses and the subject area to which they respond most frequently. ''The coaches will attempt to formulate a balanced team that-works well. together,'' Laverty explained. 
Once the final decision is made, the team members will continue to prepare for the Regionals, scheduled for March 8 and 9 at Saint Mary's. Participat­ing schools will include Indiana State, Terre Haute, Southern Illinois, Carbondale, Franklin College, Purdue, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Referendutn postponed; m,ore infonnation needed 
by Brian McFeeters 
Thirty members of the Farm­workers Support Committee decided in a meeting last night to postpone until early April the planned campus referendum in support of the nationwide Nestle's and Campbell's boycott. 
The referendum, originally scheduled to coincide with next Tuesday's student government elections, was postponed after the committee received a letter from Vice President for Student Affairs, Fr. John Van Wolvlear, disapproving the placing of the issue on next week's ballot. 
Van Wolvlear stated in the letter that disapproval of the referendum was ''not based on any disasreement with what you are strivmg for,'' but that more information is needed to allow a fair decision by students. 
The letter also outlined guide­lines for all future referemdums of this type, stating that the supporting organization must be at least a year old, must provide ''extensive and exhaustive'' information on both sides of the issue and must publicize the information to all students. 
Members of the Fartnworkers Committee plan to circulate a 
• new petition during late March and early April to obtain the 800 signatures required for a referen­dum. Information on the corpora­tions and migrant workers involved in the Ohio dispute is being gathered according to guidelines specified by Van Wolvlear. Pro and con fact sheet will heJublished in The Obser­ver, an representatives of both positions have been invited to speak at Notre Dame. President of the Farm Labor Organizing Committee Valdemar Velasquez exJ?lained the fafl!l­worker's posinon to the commit­tee Tuesday night, saying, "Our immediate goal is to get the canneries to listen. So far, they haven't even recognized us." Velasquez urged student sup­port of the boycott, saying he hoped that Notre Dame could become "part of a national effort. '' Commenting on the campus push for a referndum on the issue, Velasquez said he found it strange that a vote was needed. "It seems to me that that's like voting on whether it is all right to exploit a people or not,'' he said. 
[continued on page 11] 

Thursday, February 22, 1979 -page 3 


World Hunger Coalition petitio~s for Nestle referendum 
by Don Schmid 
The World Hunger Coalition (WHC) has collected more than 1200 student signatures for a referendum proposing that all Nestles products be removed from all food service locations. 
The referendum will be placed on Tuesday's student govern­ment electton ballots for fmal student approval, according to John Dunbar, a WHC member. 
The referendum reads: ''Be­cause of Nestles' role in the infant formula controversy, I support the removal of all Nestles food products from Notre Dame food service and from Notre Dame vending machines.'' 
If the referendum is passed by a majority of the students voting on Tuesday, the Administration will ''implement the referendum and remove all Nestles products and Nestles subsidiaries such as Libby's and Stouffer's products 
Sowder remains in critical condition 
Andrew Sowder, the Cava­naugh senior who contracted merungitis last weekend, was still listed in critical l'Ondition last night, according to the St. Joseph Hospital. His life continues to be maintained by life support systems. 
Anyone wishing to sign a register for Sowder may do so outside of room 437 Cavanaugh anytime today. 
from all University food service lo­cations'' according to a letter addressed to the WHC by Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vice-presi­
dent for Student Affairs. 
The WHC has already metands in the process of fulfillin~ six conditions before the Administra­tion will officially accept the referendum. The conditions are: 
1) Extensive research covering both sides of the issue must be done, 
2) Objective articles treating the issue must be published in 
The Observer, 
3) A pro and con information sheet must be distributed to students, 
4) A list of authorities favoring the boycott must be published, 
5) Students must be made aware of which companies are subsidiaries of Nestles, and 
6) The organization f~g the referendum must be affiliated with student activities for at least one academic year. 
The WHC has been actively involved in the Nestles infant formula controversy for over a year and a half and has spent about $130 directly on it accord-
continued on page 12] 
'Armed Funk Tour' starring os1~\.\.0 

~\.~\SC 
and the Atttactlons 
special guest: Rubinoos 
aturday, March 10 •8:00pm (est) 
Atagon Balltoom • Chicago, Ill. 
Tickets available exclusively at River City Records, 50970 US 31 North cal1277 -4242 for further information 
Is There Ufe After Notre Dame? 
Alumnae Weekend 
alumnae talk about careers, marriage &life after graduation 

· · 'Madhouse Rock Tour' starring the le£endarv . . . ~: 
ALICE COOPER 
SPECIAL GUEST: The 8Gby\ 
~ 

Monday, March 5 • 8:00pm·--~_;· Wings Stadium • Kalamazoo 
l'ickets available exclusively at River City Records, 50970 US 31 North! 
call 277-4242 for further information 
• 
The Observer Thursday, February 22, 1979 -page 4 
Heart attack causes deatl1 of police capta1n tn New,Orleans' 
Buy Classifieds from 
The Observer 
NEW ORlEANS [AP] -A police captain died of a heart attack yesterday after 20 hours on duty as New Orleans showed signs of weariness from a police strike that has dulled the Carni­val and Mardi Gras spirit. 
The strike has led to cancella­tion of all remaining Carnival and Mardi Gras parades in the city, and hotels were reporting tourist cancellations as .well. 
Meanwhile, federal mediator Ansell Garrett met with repre­sentatives of the mayor and the Teamsters-affiliated Policemen's Association of Louisiana for new talks on non-economic strike Issues. 
The Civil Service Commission was also reported meeting. It alone can consider police wage and benefits demands. It was not known if the police were involved in the meeting. 
At a trial in Civil District U'urt, Judge Richard Garvey ruled • the strike illegal and issued a perma­nent back-to-work order. A temporary order had been ignored by nearly 1, 200 of the city's 1,500 policemen. 
A 500-man National Guard force was flown in yesterday for Bogalusa. The new substlrute pohce, who relieved guardsmen on duty since Friday, were given arrest powers, but mnst were assigned to guard city facilities. 
Capt. Thomas Alben Sr., 49, i.ntendent] ames Parsons. French Quarter, where transients 
head of the 8th District, collapsed Some vandalism was reponed. were reportedly throwins bed­and died after suffering a heart Seven police cars had tires rolls on the floors of busmesses attack. Officials said he had been slashed at the district stations, and refusin~ to leave. 
working for 20 hours without and civilian workers at police The captains of Carnival orga­relief. headquarters found flat tires and 
"Like many others, he had broken windshields. nizations decided on Tuesday to been working long hours under There were reports of shoplift­cancel all remaining Mardi Gras considerable stress,'' said Super-ing and other crimes in the parades in the city. 

Committee allocates Mardi Gras funds to service organizat~ons 
upon within the week following campus groups, such as CILA
byjim McConnell 
the deadline, Reid said. At that and the Center for Experiential time, a committee meets to Learning, receive priority overThe majority of the monies ~ecide the merit of ea .h applica-off-campus groups, as do localcollected during Mardi Gras non. organization over non-local orweek are used to provide assis­out-of-state groups. 
tance to some very worthy chari­
The committee consists of the 
According to Reid, the commit­ties, according to ] ohn Reid, director and assistant director of tee attempts to concentrate on adirector of Student Activities. 
·student Activities and Volunteer 
few organizations to provide aReid yesterday outlined the Services, the srudent body presi­·relatively substantial amount ofprocedure used to allocate Mardi dent and vice-president, the assistance. As a result, manyGras funds to charities. He said student government treasurer, large scale national and inter­money is distributed semi­Mardi Gras chairman, and the national charities have beenannually-·-in the spring and chairman of the Hall Presidents deleted from this year's disburse­autumn--and applications for Council. 
ment list.

funding are available throughout According to Reid, considera­In order to be eligible for athe entire year. 
tion is given with respect to two second year offunding, an organ­
Applications, however, must following priorities. First, all ization must first provide an be received by April 15 to be organizations must provide what accurate accounting of how the considered for spring disburse­Reid termed ''A direct people previous year's funds were used, ment, and Sept. 15 to be eligible service,'' (;ne which precipitates and this must be consistent with for the fall allocation. an immediately tangible and the objectives of the committee, 
Applications are usually acted beneficial effect. Also, on Reid said. 
CAL EMMERSON'S 
SUCCESS 
IN ENGINEERING 
DESIGN AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
·AT SOLAR IS MUSIC 

TO OUR EARS. 
It takes a lot of discipline to master the 
art of playing the piano. It also takes 
discipline to manage over 180 engi­
neers and technicians in such areas 
as aerodynamics, heat transfer, 
computer science ,and mechanical 
design and combustion. 
Solar's Cal Emmerson has mas­
tered both. 
"Solar has a variety of oppor­
tunities for mechanical and electrical 
engineers as well as engineers with 
MBA's,'~Cal reports. 
Solar, the leading builder of in­dustrial turbines up to 10,600 hp, is looking for engineers with back­grounds in aerodynamics, ther­ponent subassembly and product testing. Engineers with an interest in rotating machinery and its applica­tions in the worldwide oil and gas industry. 


Solar is located in San Diego. And aside from the more obvious year round outdoor attractions of this area, San Diego has an extremely active cultural life -symphony, museums, ballet, theatre, and a number of other exciting events. 
Our representative will be on campus Tuesday, February 27. If you're interested in getting your career off on the right note, sign up at the placement office, call Tom Graham collect, (714) 238-6027, or write in confidence to Solar Turbines International, San Diego,. CA 92138. 
You'll find working and living in San Diego is music t<::> your ears. 
•
HI. 
SOlAR 1URBINES IN1ERNA110NAI 
An Operating Group of lnterna!tonal Harvester 
/ 
The Observer 




Expanding financial aid program eases rising COllege COStS 
Editor's Note: This is the first article of a two part senes on financial atd. Today 's article examines the current financial azd outlook and availability. Tomorrow's wzll discuss the process of obtaining the various forms ofaid. 
bv Pat Mangan StaffReporter 
For the past six years, costs of four-year colleges have risen at an annual average ofsix percent, and now range from about $3,000 to $8,000. 
In 1973, a student attending Notre Dame could expect to pay a bit more than $4,000 in total costs. This year the figure is up to $6,160, and according to Joe Russo, the new director of Finan­cial Aid at Notre Dame, costs will probably rise again next year. 
Recently, the American Coun­cil on Education compiled the cost of attending private univer­sities and found that the average was $3,610 a 'year for tuition, $930 for dormitory expenses, $1,000 for board, and $1,060 for books and transportation, totalling $6,600 per year. According to the Council's report there are also very few signs of a slowdown. 
With the passage of the ''Middle-Income Student Assis­tance Act'' by Congress last fall, however, many more students will be eligible for aid this year, commented Russo. 
According to the U.S. Depart­
ment of Education's Student 
Information Center, there are 
five major college aid programs; 
the Basic Educational Opportun­
ity Grants (BEOG), the Sup­
plemental Educational Opportun­
Ity Grants (SEOG), National 
Direct Student Loans (NDSL), 
Guaranteed Student Loans 
(GSL), and College Work-Study. 
The Middle-Income Student Assistance Act (MISA), is signifi­cant in that it opens up feaeral grants such as BEOG and SEOG to students from families whose incomes are as high as $2-5,000 a year. 
Russo said this ceiling might be even higher in cases where there is more than one student in college. He said the average Notre Dame family has four children, two of which are in college. 
Last year over 460,000 stu­dents received a total of $270 million through the SEOG pro­gram. In addition, an SEOG grant can be as high as $1, 5000 a year. 
SMC shuttle experiences scheduling, driver problems 
by Margt'e Brassil StaffReporter 
There have been several prob­lems with the new shuttle bus schedule implemented this sem­ester, specifically with the break times and with one of the bus drivers, according to Marianne F~os~, Saint Mary's Co-Ex com­ffilSSloner. 
Frost noted that the drivers' 
breaks have been rescheduled, 
alleviating the problem. 
While the week night break times remain the same, the weekend times have been changed to 10: 15-10:45 on Friday night, 10-10:30 Saturday night and 8-8:30 on Sunday night. All breaks will now be taken in the LeMans parking lot, so the bus will begin tts rounds at McCandless Hall when it goes off break. 
Frost also said that she has contacted Transpo in relation to complaints lodged against one of the bus drivers. Students have complained that the driver does not make full stops at the designated places but often drives on; he will not pick up students who wave him down on the road; and, when the bus comes from Saint Mary's he does not allow students wruting at the Grotto to board the bus while he makes his trips around Notre Dame. 
According to Frost, the driver has been instructed to let stu­dents on the bus in these cases, but often disregards this. 
Frost noted that officials at Transpo have said that some­thing will be done about the situation. She asked students who have complaints to call or write Transpo to make them even more aware of the seriousness of the situation. 
The bus schedule was changed this semester with the closmg of the LeMans pruking lot. The dosing of the lot will continue for the rest of the semester, Frost noted, • 'with the anticipation that a new library building might be built on the spot." 
The closing of the lot has not adversely affected security, ac­cording to Saint Mary's Security Chief Anthony Kovatch. "In fact, it has made the campus easier to watch," he noted. 
•'1be campus is more secure because the back road around Madeleva Hall is patroled much more frequently than before." 
Kovatch admitted that it was more work for security to extend the patrol on this road because of its distance, but said this is actu~ly beneficial to campus secunty. 
•'There is also less chance of accidents now by the pedestrian walk between the parking lot and LeMans," Kovatch said. He noted that while most student drivers took care when driving that road, many other drivers were not always aware of the heavy flow of pedestrian traffic in that area, paniculary during class hours. 
If Saint Mary's students miss the night's final shuttle from Notre Dame, Kovatch empha­sized that he would rather they call the Saint Mary's security to pick them up than try to walk back. 
''Particularly if there are only one or two of them. We'd be glad to pick them up at the main gate. Unless there 1s something else happening at that moment It's no problem to pick them up." 
He explained that if they were 
[continued on page 10] 
Donahue 

features Wilkes 
Dr. and Mrs. Jack C. Wilke, international experts on human sexuality and abortion, will be the featured guests on The Phil Donahue Show today at 9 a.m. 
Authors of the highly ac­claimed Handbook on Abortion, the Wilk~'s rec~ntly lectured at Notre Dame and enc<-•.r~ed those interested in the aboroon controversy to view th~ program. 
ever comes first. On the average, 
the grant provides about $950 · 
per year per student involved in 
the program. 
Another important feature of .MISA is that it broadens the federal student lending program. Low-interest loans such as NDSL and GSL, are now available to any student no matter how high the student's family income. 
Lastyear over $310 million was handed out through the NDSL program, and the GSL program makes it possible for a student to borrow up to $2,500 a year, or a total of $7,500 as an undergrad­uate. 
The other maior aid program available to students is College Work-Study. In 1978, this fed­derally funded program enabled approximately 980,000 students to earn more than $4cxr million th~oug?. 3,000 colleges and umvers1t1es. 
According to Russo, the fed­eral work-study program pro­vides $150,000 yearly to Notre Dame. However, he added that the total student work program here at the University offered at least a few million dollars. 
Russo encouraged all students to come to the Financial Aid Office and apply for aid this year, especially in light of the changes made by the enactment of the Middle-Income Student Assis­tance Act. "Even students who have been turned down in the past should come and apply again," he said. 
Lacrosse club holds raffle 
The Notre Dame Lacrosse Club held the drawing for its Bahamas Raffle Saturday night at Mardi Gras. First prize of a trip for two to the Bahamas was won by Zahm Hall resident Paul Mortenson. Second prize of .1 ten-speed bicycle was won b) Lisa Howard, the sister of a lacrosse team member. The Notre Dame shin and sweater outfit was won by the father of team member Greg Sebold. The final prize of a keg of beer was won by Paul Lundg1en, a resident of Flanner Hall. 
The money raised by the raffle 
-will be used by the Lacrosse Club to purchase new uniforms for the "B" team, pay referees' fees and • other spring season expenses, and also help defray the cost of the team's trip to Miami during spring break. 
Pre-law society postpones meeting 
The Pre-law Society's general meeoog, planned for Tuesday, Feb. 27, has be~n postponed until Monday, March 12. 

Close Encountets of the Second Kind 
Physical 
Evidence 
Thursday, February 22, 1979-page 5 


The Student Union 
Cultural ArtsCommission ProudlyPresents The Tony Award Winning National Theatre of the Deaf in ~volpone' and Dylan Thoimas' ·ouite Early One Morning' Monday, Feb. 26 Spm 
Washington Hall Admission $1.00 
Tickets now available in the Student Union Ticket Office 
lbis year, the BEOG program will assist more than a million students with a total of over $2 billion. This gr~t can be as high as S1,800 or half the total cost of going to college yearly, which­
I I I I 
I I I I I 
I I I I I I 
I I 
I 
1 
·----------------­
N.D. STUDENT UNION Ptesents 

and special 



EXILE
guest stat 

tonight 

8pm Notte Dame ACC All Sents Resetved 
----J8.00 & J7.00 
Tickets on sale at ACC Box Office 
ptesented by SUNSHINE & CELEBRATION 
----------------1
RIVER CITY I 



RECORDS I I I I
South Bend's Largest Record I and Tape Selection I 
I 
I 

Sl.OO OFF 
coupon I 
I 

S1.00 off any album or tape with this coupon. Limit 1. Now thru March 11. Nor good on cut-outs, imports or other sale I items. Coupon must be presented before purchase is rung 
I

into cash register. 
I 

eND-SMC cherk accepted for up to $20.00 over I purchase amount. ·. 
I

el 7,000 albums and tapes in stock now! e\Xfhy wait to choose from a small selection? I River City Records probably has ·it in stock now. ! I 
I 

RIVER CITY RECORDS I )()tf:'O U.S. 31 North, 3 miles nonh ofcampus. Open 10 to !0, I ~ dav... a week. 277-4242 . I 
...... 

Thursday, February 22, 1979 -page 6



Editori s 

P.O. Box 
a designer for All. OVER and even cost $2000.00; in fact, the
Houle clarifies 
several other productions. I total cost of the show went over 
found this rather unusual since the total budget by about $25.00, 
'Scholastic' Ms. Rebeck, in her research for a fairly respectable figure for a 
the article, never once came to me first time venture. In an article 
for information nor even that was to deal with studentscriticism informed me that she was using taking responsibility, this mis­my name. Ms. Rebeck was take had an especially embarras-Dear Editor: careful to give personal, tape­sing effect. · recorded interviews to all the Thirdly, the general lack of lbis letter is in reference to an other persons featured in the care with which the article was 
article by Theresa Rebeck in the article, but found it unneccessary written seems to me to be quiteFebruary issue of the Scholastic. to get my views on the matter. If ironic. Ms. Rebeck is in a The article dealt with students my name had never been men­position of responsibility and taking responsibility in the tioned, I could understand her power; she is the mana~ingSpeech and Drama department. oversight. editor of and frequent contnbu­Having had my name besmirched Secondly, as a result of her tor to the Scholastic. Yet the only by Ms. Rebeck, there are some carelessness, Ms. Rebeck stated reason I could find for her not clarifications I would like to mistakenly that I went $2000.00 contacting me about this article make. First of all, I was over budget for the set of AIL was her complaint ''Jim Houle mentioned several times in the OVER. This was an· unusual doesn't like me" and her subse­article in reference to my work as statement since the set did not quent feeling, 'I don't like Jim 

A justice Festival? 
Can a teach-in about justice be called a celebration in any sense? Mter all, the tactic of interrupting our usual rractices of learning and research began when al the associated horrors of the Viet Nam War became so apparent that. something dramatic had to be done. Classes were called off for a day at this university, and dozens of others, to permit the community to realize what was happening in the world and what should be done about it. Earlier in our history, workers seeking unionization held "sit-ins" at auto factories, and in the civil rights movement there were the famous lunch counter "Sit-ins." 
When the term 'justice' comes into public discourse, it inevitably expresses outrage of someone' s not getting his or her due in one fashion or another, as the "in -history" indicates. Perhaps this second justice teach-in at ND sets the stage for the expression ofthe variety ofgriev31JfeS we feel strongly about. And, when you think about some of them--which is only too easy--a fast rather than a feast seems mor~ in order. _,. 
Do the justice teach-ins promote a spirit of joy such as that associated with An Tostal or the Sophomore literary festival? I mention these as instances of a certain exhilaration in preference to our calendar feasts, secular and religtous, because for many ofus they do not effectively illuminate our present history and are used for other purposes. They are, of course, "breaks," though not always in the same way. For example, February. 19, Washington's Birthday, means chiefly there won't be any mail. 
Justice teach-ins are indeed a very serious matter. They are intended as ''time-outs' ' to bring our attention to questions of concern that go beyond, yet assume, the knowledges of our everyday routine of classes and labs. The questions are always there simply because we are Intelligent and live in society. Yet, they are easily forgotten, isnored, or suppressed--very readily in an acaderruc community where our immedtate focus is not changing the world but finding out what it is all about, or at least pans of it. One of the elements that make ND unique is that it is not kaving to chance the issue of justice or simply to those very dedicated people whom you \viii find on any campus. 
. A festival has to be S}'eeial and experienced as liftin_g up the meanin~ of the ordinary. However, the domain of justice Is always one of conflict, with groups, for example, urging sincerely and per­suastvely that their rights have been violated. We ·cannot escape the more obvious cries of the poOr, the oppressed, the disenfranchized. Where's the cause for rejoicing here? 
The Sense ofjustice 
The response lies, I think, in the fact that we can and do talk about our differences. To do so, Prof. Sterba has urged that, beyond the variety of ways we have for conceiving justice, we may find something we share with 'others,' whether they be young or old, black or ~hite, men or women, etc. What we tend to have in common, even when we depart from it, is a "sense of justice" or an expectation of fair play. Children learn it very early, Piaget has observed. In the simplicity of games, we quickly recognize lapses: cheating, the "cheap shot," the bad call. That this mysterious power is a concrete reality of our lived-world is undeniable and, indeed, one evidence that the "world is a good place," after all. The "sense of justice" is a reason for festivity. We can be joyfully grateful that, beyond our differences, there is a "third party," the existence of which we usually take for granted: that we are capable of reasoning in practical disputes, however varied the approach. 
Love of]ustice 
Festivals are not always cheerful, the earliest ones celebrating funerals. Here, when we pause through the teach-ins to ask ourselves, "Am I helping or hurting?' ' the experience may. not be comfortable. Moreover, the time spent ts at the expense of some other val~ed activity. Nietzsche can help us: ''The trick is not to arrange a festival, but to fiqd people who can enjoy it.'' 
Those most likely to think of the teach-ins as festivals· are those who, beyond having a ''sense of justice," are "lovers of justice." In the ND community I think we would not be surprised at the large number who have asked themselves, Why should I be just?, and have discovered "reasons" that only the heart knows. I think Prof. Joe Evans's Valentine's Day greeting Ubi Amor, Ibi Oculus should be complemented by Chrysostom' s Ubi can/as gaudet, ibi est festivitas: Where love rejoices, there is festivity. 
Basil 0 'Leary 
Professor, Program in Non Violence Houle." It's no wonder that students are not gaining as much power and responsibility as they would like and that the Scholastic can never seem to gain the respectability it would like. With attitudes such as Ms. Rebeck's, it is a wonder the Scholastic has a leg to stand on. 
jim Houle 
Off Campus petitions for representation 
Dear Editor: 
The cry of, "No Taxation With­out Representation'' once incited the people of this nation to fire a shot heard around the world. However, when the Notre Dame Student Government hears the phrase used justifiably by off campus students, it merely causes a few raised eyebrows. The fact remains that off campus students are paying $15,00 in activity fees and they have no say over what this money is used for, because they have no representation on the Board of Commissioners, which is the unit of the Student Government that allocates student money .. 
In 1776, Thomas Jefferson wrote in the Declaration of Independence, '' ... whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends (to secure all men's unalienable rights), it is the right of the peo­ple to alter or to abolish and insti­tute a new government..."Last week off campus students opted to alter the constitution of the undergraduate student body by adding an elected off campus 
representative  to  the  composi­ 
tion  of  the  Board  of  
Commissioners.  

The proposal for this amend­ment presented by the Voluntary O.C.C., met 'with disaster. For some unknow reason, the board did not receive the whole .pro­posal; and the council was not tnformed until Monday, Feb. 19 that they had to use a petition rather than a direct appeal to pass their amendment. The vol­
untary o.c.c. is now circulating a petition to override the Board's decision and place the issue in the hands of the Notre Dame Student ~y. However, be­
cause of these actions, the coun­cil must have 900 valid signatures by 3 p.m. today. So get out and sign petitions. 
If the proposal of this amend­ment is defeated, I feel that stu­dents should seriously consider abolishing the present Student Government and instituting a new one, as Thomas Jefferson 
·Stated, because it will have itself to be destructive to the whole student comml!ll.ity at Notre Dame by denying the right of equal representation to nearly 1I 5 of the student body and thus weakening the unity ofthe whole. ''No Taxation Without Represen­tation'' was reason enough to start a revolution against tyran­ny, so it is cenainly reason enough to start a revolution 
for a more efficient and effective student government. 
Leslie M .. Melander 
Griffin muddles discussion 
Dear Editor: 

Griffs latest musings on sex and the single woman puzzle and bemuse me. What is our campus chaplain really trying to ~ay? How is it pastorally helpful to subject us for the umpteenth time to his rambling complaints about his sad fate on campus? If he real)y feels so misunderstood and ineffectual, why doesn't he take it up with his confessor or his su{>eriors rather than with the uruversity as a whole? Address­ins a woman as ''dear'' and "httle love" is a blatant form of patronizing sexism. I wonder if he patted her on the head too? Sentimentality is no substitute for a frrm, reasoned stand-­especially on the subject of sexuality, The latter-day discus­sion of sex in your pages has revealed an almost hopeless muddle and if "the pale le­~alisms of celibate logic'' are as meffectual as he confesses, who shall set our feet upon the path of dear-headed argument and hon­est discussion? 
Wtlliam G. Storey 
Professor ofThelogy 
Ice Capades 
on campus 
Dear Editor: 

For those of you who are sad about the departure ofthe fantas­tic Ice Capades show, don't fret. The show hasn't left Notre Dame yet. You can catch this dazzling performance every day on the North Quad, South Quad, and just about anywhere else on campus. I'm talking about the conditions of our sidewalks. In 
my opinion,  the conditions  are  
deplorable.  There's  no  reason  
for  it:  we  have  a  full  time  

maintenance staff, plenty of vehi­cles that can plow, and conditions this winter that necessitate de­ploying every available resource to solve this problem. 
In an article that appeared in The Observer a few weeks ago, the director of maintenance ex­plained the reasons behind put­ting rubber blades on the snow plows. He even admitted that 
[Continued on page 7] 
either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD reported as accurately and as objectively Ediror-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson
_The Observer_ of 
as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray 0 'Brien opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chns Stewart 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Board. Commentaries, ppinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb U:znghenry Photo Editor .......... ,Doug Chnstian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are ·the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mills per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil~~ Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin 
University of Notr~ Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Samt Mary's Editor . . . . . . FJ/en B Business Manager ........ john Tucker Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ann Gales Advenising Manager ........ Bob Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mz1e Lewis 
The Observer -Editorial Thursda,x,Feb~ary 22; 1979-page 7 

U.S. Foreign Policy-'No policy' leading to crisis 
It was Otto von Bismark who Vietnam. What is at stake? Balkans. German vicissitude and said, with a certain cynicism, that Southeast Asia (the Balkans of ''misty-mindedness'' contributed the Balkans were not worth the our time). Who are the major to a chain reaction of misunder­bones of one single Prussian contestants? China and the standings which culminated in grenadier. Unfortunately for Soviet Union (as Austria-Hunga­World War I. In 1914, Germany Kaiser Wilhelm, imperial Ger­ry and Russia were in 1914). was the stooge ... of her own many and most of the civilized Who is the mischief-making ally? making. world, Bismarck's admonition Soviet Russia's Vietnam (as In 1979, the United States was not heeded: enter World Serbia was to im~rial Russia). faces a situation not entirely War I and its extenuating chaos. Who is the unwttting stooge? dissimilar to that of Germany in 
If one were to apply the same Here, fortunately, the present 1914: foreign policy that so lacks Bismarckian insight to Southeast situation does not yield an an­in PlJ!l'OSe it cannot provide for Asia, one might be able to view swer. defrninon, direction or commit­the situation there with consider­In 1914, imperial Germany's ment. Until very recently this able alarm; for although the foreign policy had fallen into policy of "no-policy" served to members of the original cast disarray under the auspices of benefit the Soviet Union with (Germany, Austria-Hun~ary. im­Europe's enfant tem"ble, Kaiser substantial gains via the Free perial Russia and Serbia) have Wilhelm. The Kaiser had con­World: Vietnam, Angola, Ethio­
long since disappeared from the structed a foreign policy that was pia, Mghanistan, and severe stage, the stage and its setting so confused that neither friend dislocation ofU.S. "no-policy" in have remained relatively un­nor foe could make any rational Iran, to name a few. Most changed. Most importantly, the expectations as to what Germany importantly, this no-policy can be old roles have been assumed by mi~ht or might not do. While the credited with the mastery of the new actors whose potential for Kaiser exhorted cousin Nicky to game of detente by the Soviets. destructiveness would have shat­rapprochement, he convinced But with the advent ofChina as a tered the political imaginings of Austria of Germany's carte major participant in U.S. and their predecessors. blanche (or so the Austrians saw world affairs, the Soviets have 
So we have it: the United it) support of Austrian efforts to suddenly found that the no-policy States, China, the Soviet Union, contarn Russian influence in the foreign policy of the United 
Justice Teach-In 
Moral moments in law school 
revived in an evidence class on an ordinary
After considerable empirical research,· Robert 
Wednesday morning: 
Redrnoum and I found that law school is like a 
Professor: Brown, what's a trial?
poker game: "One leaves it a little poorer (or a 
Brown: An adversary proceeding. 
little ncher), having enjoyed the experience and 
Professor: For what purpose? 
not been touched by it, having liked 1t or found it 
Brown: To discover the truth. (There is silence in 
boring. ~e difference may be that 1~~ students 
large class for five seconds, then laughter.) 
would delme an opportunity to return. 
Professor: (after waiting just long enough for the
We found that a common impression among 
laughter to help him make his pomt): Who cares 
poets and educators--that legal education causes 
what truth is?
students to become callous or pompous--is not 
Brown: I care. (Loud laughter.) 
borne out by an examination of the process and the 
Professor: Well, in your conversations with God,
effects of the process. Law school is also like 
you can take those questions further. (Pause.
reading Heidegger; it can be a massive intellectual 
Then, to another student) Smith, what's the
experience, but one's character, whatever it is, 
purpose of a trial?
tends to survive. Students are narrowed, but only 
We found that sort of experience to be frequent
temporarilv; when they leave law school they have 
in legal education and we believe it to be universal.
recaptured most ofwhatever breadth of vision they 
Llewellyn emphasized it, and a reason for it, in his 
had when they came. Their most interesting 
Bramble Bush lectures; Holmes emphasized it in
complaints about law school are that it does not 
his talks to lawyers and in his legal thought. It
change students and that it gives them no 
survives in the nostalgia of alwnni. It occurs in
counseling skills, for carrying out the altruism they 
every law class in every American law school. It 
came with. 
has everything to do with the way a lawyer learns 
All of this is according to plan. The late 
about ethics in his professiOnal life. It deserves
Professor Karl Llewellyn, a giant tn legal education 
analysis.
and in law reform (he was, among other things, the 
The moment itself is usually more subtle than it
drafter of the Uniform Commercial Code), gave 
was in the evidence class; Redmount and I were
introductory lectures to law students at the 
lucky to find such a clear example. It is also not
University of Chicago. These were later published 
usually so much a moment as an insinuation.. It is 
in a little volume, a classic..in the what-to-expect-in­
often announced by mentors in the law more with a
law-school genre, called The Bra1!Jble Bush. 
whimper than with a bang. Another version of it
Llewellyn told students that they were welcome to 
appears in a first-year student's diary: "I was
their morals, but that their morals had little to do 
talking after class to my property teacher. The gist 
with legal education. ''The hardest job of the first 
of our conversation was that the law in many
year," he said, "is to top off your common sense, 
aspects is more form than anything else. It would 
to knock your ethics into temporary anesthesia. 
be easy to convert it and make it employable by a
Your view of social policy, your sense of justice--to 
layman, but that would ruin the value, or at least
knock these out ofyeu along with woozy thinking.'' 
hamper the earning power, of the professional
Hie point is one that is celebrated m American 
Iawyer .... " 
legal thought. It was elevated into legal philosophy 
The moment of avoidance is, first of all, an
by the American legal positivists. For most 
educational device. It involves a road taken and a
American lawyers, though, the point is more an 
road less travelled by. In Frost's poem thoroadless 
analytical than a normative one: It is necessary, in 
travelled by is the road taken, but here the choice is 
working with law, to set morals aside. This is not 
more conventional. SoJ?histicated law in America,
to say that morals are not important. It is not even 
like sophisticated Amencan political life, prefers to 
to say that law and morals are really distinct. It is a 
pretend that. morals have nothing to do with the 
matter ofform, a habit useful to analysis and there 
entetprise. The road less travelled by, the road not 
fore to professional skill. "If you want to hit a bird 
taken in law school, is the road on which the 
on the wing,'' Justice Holmes told the Boston Bar 
analysis and exploration of moral propositions
Association, ''you must have all your will in a 
could become an intellectually important part of
focus. You must not be thinking about your 
professional education. The road taken is the road 
neighbor." In legal education, whether this 
on which there is no time to think about one's
doctrine is a matter of philosophy or merely an 
neighbor, on which thoughts about one's neighbor
educational device, morals are considered irrele­
are scorned as woozy thinking.
vant. The tendency of this view is that morals 
A student of mine at the University of Virginia
become irrelevant. And, since the lawyers are 
said, ''One of my greatest frustrations at this law
people, even if they are lawyers, the result is a 
school has been the lack of person-centered law.
tendency to schizoid personalities among lawyers. 
After a while one would come to think that there
There is a legend m law teaching which has a 
isn't any such thing." Even if there is such a thing
first-year professor (probably someone like 
as ''person-centered law,'' one is expected to
Kingsfield in the movie ''Paper Chase'') grilling a 
proceed as if there were no such thing. ''Person­
student about an appellate opinion. After no small 
centered law" is the road not taken. The
amount of battering, the professor fmally gets the 
crossroads is no different, and the choice of roads
student to state accurately what the result in the 
no different, at law schools which profess a 
case was. After a pause, the student adds, "But 
religious heritage, or which trace their origins to
that's not j11St!" And the professor answers, "If 
churches. Sin~e the choic~ is not against morals, 
you wanted to study justice you should have gone 
but only agamst regarding morals as of any
to divinity school.'' 
intellectual unportance, the road is open both too
Dr. Redmount and I, in recording and analyzing 
believers and to non-believers.
classes in four law schools, found the legend Professor Thomas Shafter 
States causes new and dangerous insecurities. For China as an important additional factor in 
U.S. policy makes it necessary for the Soviet Union to be able to ascertain the credibility of U.S. policy. · In all contingencies mvolving China, the Soviet must know precisely what would be the policy of the United States. 
allna, too, has gained by U.S. no-policy: She is relatively free to interpret the new, full relation­ship with the U.S. as she sees fit. The fact that the United States was willing to sacrifice a lon~­standing relationship with Tru­wan without any substantial cor­responding guarantees from China as to the integrity of Nationalist China only adds to this impression. One might speculate that the Chinese per­ceive that U.S. policy, if not explicitly in support of China's efforts to contain Soviet influence in Southeast Asia, is implicitly in su.Pport of such policy. Although this is far from the supposed carte blanche of German foreign policy toward Austria in 1914, It 1s the misunderstanding over policy, and not the actual policy Itself (which remained_ unclear to all concerned) which encour~ed Austrian punitive strikes agamst Serbia. 
The similarities of Chinese punitive actions against Vietnam 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

and Austrian actions against Serbia in 1914 cannot be easily dismissed. In both instances, great powers have been pro­voked. But in the present setting, there is still tune to prevent men from repeating his­tory. The United States, like Germany in 1914, is facing a crisis of incalculable magnitude, much as a result of the ineptitude of its own foreign policy. It may be too late to prevent a Sino-Sov­iet conflict over the disposition of Southeast Asia, but in the event of such a conflict we might want to keep Bismarck's remark about the Balkans in mind. 
Barry 0 'Connor 
408 St.]oseph Hall Graduate Student in Government 
) 

... Capades 
[Continuedfrom page 6] 
they were not doing the job of clearing the sidewalks efficiently. 
That's admirable--admitting a mistake. What is ridiculous, though, is the fact that the article appeared over three weeks ago, but until now, nothing has been done to correct the situation. As I write this, there is about three inches of hard packed snow, along with ~lare ice, on practical­ly every stdewalk on campus. What has to happen before something is done?. Does one of the maintenance jeeps have to crash into a tree because of the\conditions? No. All that has to be done is the director of main­tenance to decide to put the steel blades back on the plows. Putting rubber blades on snow plows m South Bend is like giving New York City policemen caps to put in their guns, and just about as effective. 
Another question that has to be asked is ''why are the main­tenance employees clearing out only the intersections of busy 
~ ~jdewalks? What sense does that make? At some places on campus, the difference is about three inches from the sidewalk level to the level of the intersec­tion. It's a wonder why no one has sprained or broken his or her ankle. There hasn't been all that much snowfall in the last few days. What have the plows been domg? I haven't seenone )f the I.oadstar dumptrucks in quite a while. Hopefully, they're in the garage getting steel blades in­stalled on their plows. I hope our maintenancestaff doesn't wait for the rains and warm temperatures in March and April to dd their job for them. Ifthey can't do the job right, get someone who can! 
Joseph F.Joyce,]r. 








Features 
Thursday, February 22, 1979-page 8 
National Theatre of the Deaf Kathy Ryan 
The Tony Award winning trouee, the National Theatre of the Deaf, wdl visit Notre Dame's Washington Hall of Mon­day, February ·26, bringing with an 11-year history of singular entenain­ment. The 14-member company of 4 speaking actors, 10 non-speaking actors, will perform Ben Jonson's Volpone and Dylan Thomas' Quite Early One Mor­ning, and adaptation of selected poems and lyrics. 
The troupe's credits are unique and impressive: eleven national tours, two Broadway runs, six tours of Europe and Asia, three films and numerous national television appearances. Acclaimed per­formances all over the world have evidenced the group's mastery in visl.ial communication, rrume, sign language, music and improvisation. 
The speaking actors narrate the drama, while the language of the stage--signs and motions, music and dance--bnng vibrancy to the performance. The entire project, sponsored by the Eugene O'Neill J.beatre Center and subsidized by the Office of Education, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, seeks to bridge the gap between the world of the hearing and the world of the deaf. On the stage, where insight and emotion play a pnmary role, the bridge is carefully constructed by a group of talented actors and their dedicated staff of producers. 
The Company last visited Notre Dame in 1973, when they performed Optimism, or the Misadventures ofCandide. Their upcoming performance begins at 8:00. 
p.m. in Washington Hall next Monday evening; admissiOn is $1.00. 
has been better directed ( 
NewYo1 

j 
Edited by Chris Stewart Layout by Cindy McKiel 




The Observer-Features Thursday, February 22, 1979-page 9 









The Observer Thursday, February 22; 1979 -page 10 
r 
I i 
Freshman Year of Studies 'spotlights' college programs 
by]ohn O'DonneU The program has completed 
the first two phases for the 
The Freshman Year of Studies, 
College of Engineering and the under the direction of Dean .E.:nil College of Science. The program Hofman, is offering a ''spot­for the College of Arts and light'' program to freshmen. This Letters is scheduled to begin on program provides information Tuesday, Feb. 27, at 7:30f.m. 
about the four colleges, to aid Isabel Charles,. Dean o the freshmen in deciding upon which College of Arts and Letters,will college to enroll. conduct a discussion period for 
The programs from each col­interested freshmf"n in the Engi­lege will consist of three phases. neering Auditorium. During the In the first phase, each dean will week of February 26, literature 
outline the structure and curricu­and video tapes from this college 
lum of the college and its will be available in the Freshman departments. The second phase Learning Resource Center. consists of college information Vince Raymond, Associate from the Freshman Learning Dean of the College of Business Resource Center, including Administration, will offer a dis­
printed material and videotapes. cussion period on Monday,The third phase consists of visits March 5, at 7:30 p.m. in Room to various colleges and depart­122 of the Hayes-Healy Center. ments. Uterature pertaining to this col­
.. ~ I ·~ i 
MEDICAL SCHOOL OPPORTUNITY 
Well-established Medical School, with many American graduates, now admitting for winter, summer, and fall of 197 9. Fully accredited with WHO listing. Meets eligibility requirements of AAMC for COTRANS. Eligible institution; U.S. Federal Insured Student Loan Program. Modern buildings and labs with over 1500 Americans attending. A two semester pre-med program and relaxed admission policy are in effect. 
Students are requested to apply directly to the Dominican R"epublic; there are no exorbitant fees involved and the school absolutely DOES NOT maintain any official "Admissions Office" outside the Dominican Republic. You may call: 809-688-4516. You may write: 
CENTRAL RECRUITING OFFICE DOMINICAN UNIVERSITIES OF MEDICINE Conde 202-3 Edifice Diez, Oficina 508 Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic! i ~~ 
GABE KAPLAN'S HAVING ABALL! 
COLUMBIA PICTURES PRESENTS A STEPHEN FRIEDMAN I KINGS ROAD PRODUCTION 
GABRI(l KAPlAN IN fASlBR(AK ASSOCIATE PRODUCER EXECUTIVE PRODUCER 
JACK GROSSBERG ·GERALD FRANKEL 
SCREENPLAY BY STORY BY 
SANDOR STERN · MARC KAPLAN 
DIRECTED BY PRODUCED BY 
JACK SMIGHT ·STEPHEN FRIEDMAN 
MUSIC BY 
DAVID SHIRE ANoJAMES Di PASQUALE 
~IPMBIUI.~a.mll-I ORIGINAL SOUNDTRACK ON ... -·-··-•..,..,.---MOTOWN RECORDS AND TAPES ~ «:)1979 Columb•a P.ctures lndustl'les. Inc @AD THE BALLANTINE PAPERBACK I 
Also starring South Bend's own Mike Warren as The Preacher 
Starts Friday-Feb. 23rd Times: 2-4-&8-10 Town & Country (2) 
lege will be provided during the week of March 5 at the Freshman Learning Resource Center. 
The third phase of the pro­gram--visits to various colleges and departments for open houses, class visits and personal consultations--is scheduled for the week of March 12. 
. .. Shuttle 
[continuedfrOfll page 5] busy at the moment, they would ask the girls to wait and would be over as soon as possible. ''If it's nice weather and there are 15 of them they'd be safe walking in such a large group, but even with that many during this cold weather they can be picked up by 
. .. 
secunry. 
''It has been my policy for the past five years to escort the girls back from Notre Dame if they need it,'' Kovatch said. ''I wouldn't want any of the girls walking back by themselves that late at night." 
[continued from page 1) this year complained, ''I think peers.'' then the student's resJ:X>nsibiliry the system should be changed. Once a student is kicked off to fmd their own off CarTIJ?US The decision that I should move campus, he might encounter housing, according to Housmg off campus was made by three difficulty in gettng back on Director Edmund Price, and the men (rectors) that know me only campus. However, Jenky says $50 deposit is forfeited. How­my my alleged wrongdoings, and that in his four years as Dillon ever, Price noted, room and had no conception of the good I rector, he has gotten four calls board money is refunded at a had done for the hall. A much from other rectors requesting prorated amount. fairer system would have taken advice on a student he has 
One student who was evicted into account the opinions of my evicted, and each time J enky has recommended that the student be 
.. ------..--.--------------------, 
given another chance. He added that it would take a
l hunc,€R Coalition I 
''pattern of non-cooperation,
I I 
such as drug abuse or heavy damage" to prevent a student
I Ben€r•t ntt€ 1
from regaining campus housingI elsewhere. 
at th€ nazz I
I 
I

mus1c: ]1m SP€JR & CO. I , , , China I
,.._ -*4

St€V€ J)obRy & [continued from page 1) 
from Lan Son, also described alleged Chinese atrocities, saying lu ann Banb that in one incident troops 
stopped a bus on a provinoal road and executed all its passen­gers. 

The invasion force that struck across the border last Saturday is 8:30-12:30 reponed to have penetrated as far as twelve miles into Vietna­mese territory along the 450-mile 
l=R•bay at th€ nazz 
border. The Vietnamese claim to have


$1.00 abmJss1on 
killed 5,000 to 8,000 Chinese· soldiers.



-------------------J 
]PW schedule of events 
Junior Parents Weekend is scheduled to begin tomorrow night with a Kickoff Par_cy in the main concourse of the ACC. The following is a list of the weekend's events. 
FRIDAY 

2:00 p.m. Registration --LaFortune Student Center till 8:00 p.m. 
9:30 p.m. Cocktail Dance --Mono~ram Room & Main Concourse of A.C.C. -regtstration cont. 
SA1URDAY 

9:00a.m. Registration --LaFortune Student Center till 
9:30a.m. Collegiate Workshops till 11:30 a.m. in individual college buildings. Coffee and donuts--no luncheons. 
5:15p.m. Mass --Sacred Heart, Fr. Griffin. 6:30p.m. Junior Class Mass--Sacred Heart, Fr. Egan. 8:00p.m. Presidential Dinner --Stepan Center. 
.' 
SUNDAY 

9:30a.m. Closing Breakfast--Stepan Center, featuring guest speaker Dean Emil Hofman. 
All tickets should be picked up at registration. 

, , , Roemer 
\ 
The Observer Thursday, February 22, 1979 -page 11 
At Howard Hall 

Leader disrusses pyramids 
by CarolBuzzard 
Prof. Robert Leader of the .Art IX-pamnent gave an illustrated lecture entitled ''American Pyra­mids and Human Sacrifice'' last night in Howard Hall. Leader compared the great pyramids of Egypt with those of Latin Ameri­ca, em_P,hasizing the use of those pyrarruCls as sites of human sacrifice. 
In an hour-long speech, Leader said that the greatest difference between the two structures was that the Egyptian monuments were royal tombs while the American pyramids were altars for hwnan sacrifice. 
. ~ccording to Leader, the Egyp­tian pyrarruds were part of a ''Necropolis, or city ofthe dead,'' subsequently they were secreted away from human life. The 
)/ American pyramids, however, would hold hundreds of Indians on their sides while human victims were offered to Indian 
. i gods, often the sun. Leader called the pyramids the ''cere­monial center of a complex society.'' 
Leader described the ~tian pyramids as "distant things, a security system to perpetuate the mummy's life in another world.'' These pyramids proved insecure, and were constantly looted and destroyed. In Mezo-America, however, the Aztec's and Mayan's built their pyramids to glorify their religious rituals. 
Speaking about these religious rituals, Leader told how the priests would stand on the ele­vated platform plunge a stone knife into the victim and cut out the beating heart to offer to their sun god. The sacrifice would then be thrown down the steep stairway. 
Leader said that, according to legend, in order to prevent the destruction of the world, the sun must be fed blood. The Indians believed that the world was renewed in 104 years. Midway between this cycle, every 52 years, they would build a new pyramid upon the old one. 
The original strucrures of the Egyptian pyramids were mathe­mancally precise and covered with a smooth and glossy surface which no one could climb. The Indian pyramids, however, had 365 high narrow steps which forced someone to ascend in a zig-zag fashion, like a serpent. 
Leader said that authorities differ on the amount of Indian sacrifices. The numbers range from 200-250 thousand sacrifices per year, including hundreds of victims who were sacrificed each day during major festivals. 
Leader concluded by alluding to the fact that today' s Mexicans are fervently proud of their Indian heritage. He added that they should not condemn the handful of "frightened" Spani­ards who destroyed the Aztec Empire. Teir brutality was merely a natural reaction to the Indian's revulsive and canibalis­tic acts according to Leader . 

Although the temperature climbs above the freezing point, the snow coper remains. [Photo by Dave Rumbach] 
... Info 
[continued from page 31 
Committee member Anne Huber told the group she had contacted representatives of both Campbell's and Libby's, the sub­sidiary of Nestles involved in the dispute, and was told that the canneries did not consider the farmworkers their employees. A letter from Libby's Vice Presi­dent for Government and Indus­
. trial relations Uoyd Duggan sid, in part, "We cannot interfere with the relationship between grower and his employees.'' 
So far, both corporations have refused to send representatives to Notre Dame since they main­tain that they are not involved in the issue, Huber said. She stated that the committee would conti­nue to ask the canneries to send representatives. In addition, committee members are trying to convince the Administration to send invitations as well. 
Committee organizer Tim Beatty told the group that the Administration is willmg to sup­port the boycott if enough speci­fic information is presented to the students. He reported that University President Fr. Theo­dore-M. Hesburgh had sent a letter to Van Wolvlear saying that he University would support a student-supported boycott. 
The committee is sponsoring tonight's 8:30 p.m. showing of the 1959 CBS documentary "Harvest of Shame" in Hayes­Healy Auditorium. The movie deals with conditions and prob­lems similar to those faced by the Ohio farmworkers today. 
ARmANDO'S 
BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 1437 N .Ironwood Dr. South Bend 277-0615 
Sue, Ruthie, Armando-stylist 
mon-fri 8-5:30 sat 8-2 by appt. only sat-no appt. needed 
CRYSTAL GAYLE When I Dream 
lncludins: Talking In Your Sleep Don"t Treat Me Like A Stranger 
STEREO LPS 
VIPinrt«>•r tWhen I Dream 
SERIES 798 
$4.99 

UNITED ARTISTS 


.. 
STEREO LPS SERIES 898 
$5.99 
PICTURED ITEMS ONLY. 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


a 
The Observer Thursday, February 22, 1979-page 12 
\ 


-C'" 
The SMC Senior Class Presents 

Beach Blanket Boogie 
Large audience hears Lucas lecture on memorization 
Tom Hay 
Pro basketball player turned memory expect, Jerry Lucas, delivered an entertaining, en­lightening, and often bizarre lecture on memorization tech­niques to a standing-room only crowd at the Library Auditorium last night. 
Lucas recounted some exper­iences from his basketball career, then proceeded to demonstrate how ''memory can be fun and easy.'' While he did not have enough time to present the method in its enurety, Lucas described the basics of his sys­tem and illustrated some vivid examples to the audience. 
Lucas bases his ''substitute word system'' on the ability to see, store, and re-create images in the mind. Put simply, this means changing words, symbols and ideas into mental pictures which are easier for the mind to store and recall. In particular, Lucas recommends making asso­ciations with totally ridiculous pictures, because they are e.asier to remember than ordinary im­ages. 
He demonstrated his principle by helping the audience memo­rize a numbered list of ten items, converting each item and its correspo'?ding into a bizarre mental ptcture. 
For example, number nine on the list was the word pig, so Lucas rhymed vine with nine, and. 
We want men and women with engineering or other technical degrees 
... for careers in steel operations, shipbuilding, engineering, sales, mining, and research. 
.. 
Our Loop Course recruiters will be here on March 1, 2 
Let's talk about it. 



Bethlehem ~:t 
conjured up a picture of vines that grew p1gs instead of leaves. ''Could you imagine walking around campus listening to all the pigs squealing on the vines?" 
other images included a salami on a diving board, a hen hatching a basketball, and television sets running a foot race. With pictures such as those, the aud­Ience passed Lucas' subsequent examination without error--ex cept for number 4, which he forgot to mention. Lucas stated that all memory is based on observation and association. "To improve our memories,'' Lucas said, ''we must improve our observation. Observation is not just seeing, b~cause. many. things we see don t register m our minds." According to Lucas, the best way to help one's observa­t~on is through picture associa­tion. 
''They . may be dumb, silly pictures, but they work.'' Lucas claims this method · can be ap­plied to ''anything at all.'' 
At present, Lucas teaches how to memorize the New-Testament in just 15 weeks, adding "the Bible is just a picture." 
During his basketball career, Lucas recalled he ''knew every play of every team in the NBA, and that helped us a lot." He has also memorized the names and faces of as many as 250 people at a time. 
The biggest memorization prob­lem for most people concerns intangibles such as numbers, formulas, or foreign languages. Lucas contends that anything and everything can be made tangible and picturable in the mind. ''The periodic table (of the elements) is one of the eastest things to do,'' claims Lucas, adding ''you can make the Morse Code as tangible as an ele.P.hant." 
Lucas will return to South Bend on April 21 to hold a day-long • seminar that will explain his system more fully. He en­couraged students to bring any memorization problems or chal­lenges to him at that time. The seminar will be held at the Gospel Center Church, 930 S. 30th St., SB. The cost will be $25, including about $17 worth of materials. 
.. .·Coalition 
[continuedfrom page 3] ing to Dunbar. eluding Nestles, has undermined 
Last fall's conference focusing the faith of Third World mothers on the controversy featured both in their own breast milk through a Nestles film and a CBS News an unfair advertising campaign. documentary. Representatives of Proponents of the boycott have the Nestles corporation were also charged Nestles with a lack of present. corporate responsibility in the 
The WHC has also sponsored expansion of_the infant formula lectures and seminars throughout market in the Third World. the year. Last night in the Dunbar stated that an econo­Hayes-Healy auditorium, the co­mic boycott is the most effective alition sponsored the film, "CBS means of correcting the situation Reports: Into the Mouths of with Nestles because it is a Swiss Babes,'' and informal discussion corporation and cannot be sued immediately followed the pre­by American stockholders in U.S. sentation. courts. Other American corpora­
At Saint Mary's, a similar tions producing infant formulas effort is being made to boycott for the Third World have already Nestles food products. A petition been sued, he added. drive will be started in the near In addition to the referendum, future and a student''bOOy vote . the WHC will be sponsoring a will not be necessary to imple­benefit Friday night at the Nazz ment the referendum there, ac­featuring Jim Spier and Co., cording to Dunbar . Steve Podry and the Lu Ann 
The tnfant formula controversy Band. Admission will be $1 and centers around the charge that all proceeds will go to the the i_nfant formula industry, in-hungry. 



Benefit dance tonight 
by .Mary Pat FJ/is purchased at the door. The cost 
ts $3, and the dance is open to 
Saint Mary's senior class is anyone with a 21 ID. sponsoring a dance for charity Free beer, wine, soft drinks tonight from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. in and snacks will be provided. Angela Athletic Facility. Music will be performed by 
Proceeds from the ''Beach WJVA. Donations of beer and Blanket Boogie' are going to St. other refreshments have helped Jude Children's Hospital, which defray costs for the senior class. spends millions of dollars yearly "We are hoping for a large in research and treatment for rum-out, all proceeds will go to critically ill children. St. Jude's, and the class would Tickets will be available in the like to make a substantial dona­Le Mans Hall lobby today from 11 tion,'' said chairperson Beth 
a.m. to 2 p.m. and can also be Menke. 

, , , Iran 

[continued from page 1] day with the provisional govern­Kraus' .r:elease, there was specu-ment of Prime Minister Mehdi lation his detention might have Bazargan to win Kraus' release. been designed to force the United Kraus was slightly wounded in States to yield Oveissi. teh embassy attack and, accord-
U.S. Ambassador William H. ing to eyewitnesses, was moved Sullivan, briefly held hostage by from an Iranian hospital that leftist guerrillas who invaded the same day and taken for question­embassy Feb. 14, was under-ing to Khomeini's revolutionary stood to have been in contact all committee. • 
·• 



The Observer Thursday, February 22, 1979 -page 13 

BUDWEISER SKI SWEATER 
Anheuser-Busch Gifts • P.O. Box 24297 • Houston, Texas 77029 I want to buy a Budweiser Ski Sweater. 
Enclosed is $30.00 (check or money order) for each Bud® Ski Sweater indicated below. Mock turtle neck only style available. (Texas and Florida residents add applicable sales tax.) 
S (36-38) 0 M (40-42) 0 L (44) 0 XL (46) 0 
NAME -------------------------------------------­
ADDRESS ----------------------------------------­
______________________________£..., p___
CITY/STATE (Allow 4 weeks for delivery. Void where prohibited by law.) 
•· 
• ~·-c ..~. • • 

The Observer -Sports Thursday, February 22, 1979 -page 14 
47. Acrobat'a 17. Ogl .. d 39. Be silent!
ACROSS 
garment 19. Thorny 
41. Elevator cage
1. -butter D O W N 1 22. Frigh~n 42. Loiter 
7. Sudden mus­23. Smart 
45. Casual grl'et­cular con­1. Annoy 25. Robust; ing ctraction 2. Brf'athe out resolute 
• • .Notre Dame
12. 
Overlook 3. Boric or car-26. See 15­

bolic-. Across

13. 
Hurryup!: 2wds. 


4. Sister 28. Cut three 
R 
15. 
Leg part 

16. 
Da Vinci 


18. 
Small fry 

19. 
With I'Unning 


::!0. Precious stone 
21. 
The: Spanish 

22. 
Caught sight of 

23. 
Vaccines 2-1. Annul; repeal 


26. Position: view 
21. Sharp flavor 
28. 
Lnn 

29. 
Ancient 


31. Frenzied 
34. 
WhN"I spindle 

35. 
Brokt'n-arm support 


:l6. Truman's state: abbr. 
37. Kind of crow 38.-broom 
39. 
Turn left! 

40. 
Table d'hOte's opposite: 3wds. 


42. 
Bait 

43. 
Harangue 

44. 
Pursuer 


6. 
Pronou•· ways 6. Effectiv1 29. Attacked: 

7. 
Upbraid 2 wds. 

8. 
ShE'tland. 30. Wood Mrrel for one :n. Move rapidly 


0
s
9. 
Physicians' and lightly group: abbr. 32. Turkish inn 

10. 
Military man 33. Cringes 


s 
11. Museum of-36. Virago Art. :-!Pw 38. Go with 
w
York . difficulty 
14. Bedourn (through) 

0 R 
D 
s 
ridge that enabled the Irish to build their huge ftrst half lead ... The twenty one points by the Mansfield native was his career high ... Tripucka should be in top form for Saturday's contest against the Explorers ... Okla­homa City was a last-second replacement for Indiana on Notre Dame's schedule ... The Irish will visit the Chiefs in the near-futurt' 
Duke falls to Cletnson 
ClEMSON, S.C. [AP] -Billy 

Williams scored a career-high 21 
points to lead Clemson to a 70-49 
upset of sixth-ranked Duke Wed­
nesday night. 
The victory assured the Tigers of at least a ftfth-place finish in the Atlantic Coast Conference. The loss dropped Duke to 8-3 in the ACC and knocked the Blue Devils out of a ftrst-place tie with ' North Carolina. 
The 21-point defeat was the worst this season for Duke, which had lost five previous games by a total of only 19 points. Clemson is now 17-8 overall and 5-7 in the ACC. Duke has won 19 game~,. ')! 
Williams, topping his previous career high of 20 pomts set against Furman last month, ,:. fH scored 12 of his points on driving layups. · 

Begin Your Engineering Career 
at -~-~(\
(\~p. 



~~-(\ 
American Can is one of the 
top 100 companies in the 
nation. We are a diversified, 
international, consumer­
oriented corporation. 
We have opportunities for engineering graduates fn Research and Development, • Manufacturing Operations, Graphics Technology, Systems Engineering and Automated Manufacturing Systems. 
Individualized development programs offer you an oppor­tunity to learn through "hands on" involvement in either project engineering at one of our technical centers or in manufacturing engineering at one of our plant locations. After completing the pro­gram, your career can pro­gress to more advanced aspects of engineering or to management. 
We are interested in ME, EE, and Chern E, especially if you have -ourses in com­puter _1er.ce or systems engineering. 
Make a date to see our rep­resentative on campus ... or write College Relations, 389, American Can Company, Greenwich, Conn. 06830. 
Our representative will be at your College February 27-28, 1979 
American ~, Can 
a1 
Company ~~ 
An equal opportunity employer 

46. Scatter ) 

Molarity 
: HEY Bff£NDA ... &lRRY 15 OVTSIDE .ASI<IN6 YOU 10 
j 
I 
l
I 
L. 
i 
} 

f 
Retail 

* 
dance floor 

* 
pool table 


511 S. Mich St. (downtown) 

Yesterday's Answers 

'HESS KING IS YO 
You' 11 enjoy working at CHESS KING--you'll like the people, the atmosphere and most of all the cliscrmots. 
•;;;:::::~fi~md out mort'-· 
f 
> 
~ 

free admission with college ID. 
Every Thursday Pitchers only $1.50 
* DJ Buddy King 
every Fri ~ Sat night 
open till 3am. 
[Continued from page 16] 
tournament begins.'' 
The second stanza showed no let-up by the Irish, and at one point Notre Dame's lead was thirty-one. Jackson and Flowers were the bellwethers during this period, scoring ten and founeen respectively,-including one off-· . balance jwnper that T.]. guided in as he was being hacked. 
Flowers added seven rebounds as he teamed with Laimbeer to deny the ice-cold Chiefs many second opportunities at the basket. 
Digger was able to get every­one into the game as Tim Healy replaced Woolridge with 3: 30 to play and Marc Kelly and Kevin Hawkins entered with a minute left. 
For the Chiefs, Montgomery and Hill were the whole story, although Hill failed to live up to his All-America billing, hounded into frustration by the tenacious Hanzlik. Notre Dame got their usual balanced scoring, led by Orlando's twenty-one, Jackson's sixteen, Flower's fifteen, and nine apiece by Branning and Mitchell. Laimbeer and Flowers combined for twenty-six boards, four less than the entire Okla­homa City total. 
The next test for the cagers is this Saturday against LaSalle and the talented Michael Brooks. 

The almighty dollar dictates that 
the game will begin at 8:00 in full view of a national audience watching on the Notre Dame network. FREE 1HROWS ... There was con­siderable discussion about the selection ofLaimbeer as player of the game. While he played his best game of the season, it was primarily the heroics of Wool-­


DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS JEWELERS SINCE 1917 
Tot.vn & Country and Concord Mall, 10-9 Blackmond's, daily, 9:30-5 Special 15°~ ~::;count On 

~ Scottsdale Mall, 
I 
South Bend, Ind. 
f I I 
Meet Someone New 
at 





THE RAMROD 

I 

The Observer -Sports Thursday, February 22, 1979 -page 15 
• • • 
lie 

[Continued from page 16) 
runner-up in the quarter-finals. 
"Drake and Marquette havew>od. heavywe~ghts as well,'' mteqected lrtsh coach Ray· Sepeta, who has been head wrestling coach since Golic was a freshman. 
''Are you ready to go another round?" asked Sepeta turning to Golic. ''The more work you can get in, the better prepared you'll be this weekend.' 
''Sure coach, I'm ~omg anodter one with Rob m a minute,'' replied Bob, wiping the sweat from his· brow as he prepared to go back to work. 
It is that ea~er readiness to work and to enJOY doing it that compels Bob to perform the exceptional when settling for the average is so much easier. 
"I've always set high goals for myself--the higher I push myself, the less room thc;re is for errors,'' reflected Golic thoughtfully. \"I've always tried to shoot for 
number one--there's always the 
chance that when you don't shoot 
as hi~h you'll come up way 
short. ' 
"Ten days ago when I s~ed praciicin~, I was really worn~ about beihg able to get ready ~ time. When my knee was still bothering me, I did a lot ~ore running and a lot more wetght­lifting. I think the exercise and 
practice have -really helped to 
heal and stren~en it.'' 
But his senous countenance 
quickly changed to a smile as he 
got up to continue his work~~~­
" I'm confident of my abihoes 
and I'm confident of my perfor­
. " 
mance m tournaments. 

He smiled convincingly and 
turned to leave, adding, ''I'll be 
ready on Saturday.'' 

Somehow you know that that's . the smile of a champion. 

Classifieds Notices GIY students of Notrl Dame/Saint M111 GIY Information line 1110. C1ll Fri. ebi'Uiry 23-10 pm -mld~ld Sit Feb. 24 10 pm midnight • wrtte 0 lax 206  
ATTENTION SENIORS:The Senior Arts Festival Is soliciting photographs for exhibition during the festival week. Submit work to Bernadette Young 317 Badin, or Kevin Pritchett, 124 Keenan  
ATTENTION ALL LOGAN VOLUN­lEERS AND INTERESTED STUDENTS: Regular Saturday Rec. this Saturday, Feb. 24th at Logan Center from 9:()()-1 11:30 a.m. Other activities available: Friday 3:20 p.m. bowling meet at NO library circle. Volunteers needed during week at Homestart and Logan Center. Questions call Mike 1371 or Sue 4-1-4832  
SLAVAK JOE It 3C N.D. Aptl., We may never see that ghost in Washington Hall, but it was sure good to see you again. Kokomo was never so much fun! "Oops, I forgot!" P.S...You really ou~ht to see someone about your obsess1on for cow dung.  
ON TICKET 28 SHE DREW HER FATE BUT REALIZED TOO LATE SHE'D HAVE TO PUT WITH NANCY & BETZ WHO ARE BOTH GREAT...GREAT...  
NOCTURNE NIGHTFUGHT, JIM 0' BRIEN FEATURES LARRY CORYElU PHILLIP CATHERINE "SPLENDID" TONIGHT. Lost&Found LOst: My Green Rugby jacket at Gut­seppe's last Saturday, please If you've found it return it. I need It for the Ireland trip. Tim 1445-Reward  
lost: Gold chain at 823 Notre Dame Avenue Friday nlte (pimp party) Great sentimental value. Reward. Dave 6828 lost: at Gulse~pe's, Sat. night 1. an open, tie at nee , off-white sweater & off white pair of mittens. 2. a SMC-key chain with a SMC I. D. and 2 keys on it. If found, please call Cathy Perreault at (219) 284-5168 (LeMans) $5 reward! Lost: Black german shepherd puppy named Grethcen, In the vicinity of Lincoln Way West and Chapin. Call 233 7213. Reward. Lost: Back pack taken by accident ~opefully) from East Racks at South inlng Hall Wednesday. Dark Blue1 camp trails/contents extremely valuable. Pluntall 277·1621 Reward!!! Lost: one crutch outside of the Library about a week and a half a~. If you've seen this crutch alive, call Ike at 1678.  
Lost: Five sweaters taken accidentally Tuesday night from Badin Basement Laundry. Call John at 1771 if you have any information.  
Found-gold high school class ri~ outside rock -says Blue Ash on it. Ca I 7883 to Identify  
For Rent 5-Bedroom,2-Baths, available for new school year $300 mo. Will rent June 1 thru summer for $150 mo. 232-9498, 291-4528. Wanted  
Need ride to NIU (Delkab, II.) o Friday, Feb. 23. John 1751 Desperate need 2G.A. tickets for LaSalle game. Please call Karen 284-4635  

Dear Chico,
Need ride to Seattle Spring Break. Will Your unbelievable! Hapy 19th and Susan,share driving and expenses. Call Steve 
belated Valentines. I still have your wine glasses. love,
Personals
Miller 7829 evenings around 11. 
143 Your wicked witch Creepo
. J 
Happy Birthday Sue Kunkels; at least 
P.S. Don't miss your next lab!
Interested In Summer camp jobs? Coun-your friends In Dillon and not Walsh Dear Dot Barbara,selors-instructors wanted to prestlflous remembered! This Is true: Welcome to the SMC·ND community.
Does August 10, 1957 mean anything 
Love, waJUng UstDot

Interested In summer camp jobs? coun-G MAC cheated on his BCA test because to you?selors-instructors wanted for prestigious he. Is a heartbroken little dude. 
Rent-a-teen Hey Wuss,
private boys and girls camps near 
I • j • 
You're terrific-Love, Twit

Kalamazoo. Try something different on Friday lftlr· Snella Callahan: Lawrence Seeger noons-Happy Hour It the Ice HOUII 4-1 Hmpy 19th from all of us In 301 and 
Julie,

1765 Maple 302 lsher. 
Happy ,belated birthday from one. 
. ;I 
Northfield, Ill. 60093 ~=turing the live entertainment of: Mike, Brian, Brien 
H-burg to another

Joy Flaher·BIICky Holtlloull 1nd Mlrthl 
Joe

Chicaf parents need new scenery -need Paulding My best to Judy L. 2 GA -ball tlx for LaSalle. Call Browse 2drlnkl for the $ of one •free munchlea • Love, D.M. 
Dante, Va:

at 8685 for money. 1 good Ume for all -Be There -Alohll 
Beanie!! Happy 17th!! It's not bee.
Evil cackle, 300000001 pennies are be-
You're drunk or that. You like to funk-It's
Wanted: old catalogues and phone books The SMC Senior Class presents: Beach hind ACC. Return my kidnapped mind.
,"l). 
best of luck wl Sam and Happy B·Dayfor anew car owner so he can see over his Blanket bocgie to benefit St. Jude Helplessly giggling fromJ:'r Big Sts Pam Nobody Chugs
new dashboard Bart 3004 Children's Hospital-Thursday, Feb. 22 • For reinforcement of your sanity Dlai·A· 
'em keyou, baby!! I Love You!!
9pm 12 pm Angela Athletic Facility $3.00 Nut 1250 
Need ride for two to Ft. Myers Florida donation
; ) 
Grace section 9-c: That was the best
over break can leave Wed. can Brian 
Beth and Rosey -You ~Iris sell your stuff
-·. 
section party Sat.·l couldn't stop
1423. JP-
great. It was fun work ng with you. Did 
smiling!! P.S. Thanks for the Carnation
Har.py Blllted Birthday. Hope H wu you get our carnations? 
Brent!

Need ride to U. of Mich. on March 2 and evl. 
Kirk and Joe 
ride back after the game of the 4th. If you Gueawbo?? 
Mrs. Kizer: 

can help, call Mike 3889 Drink with the fish this Friday!! 
Conw::.ulatlons on surviving 20 years
Congratulations to Dillon Big Red Hockey 
of the ! How did you survive?
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year round. Team: South Quad champs. Too bad Bart: T.H.
Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc. Pangborn "Violence," try again next The hole's Eetting bigger. That water. All fields, $500-$1200 monthly. Expenses year. must be c-o--o! 
Yanklnov Brothers take another Field~d. Sightseeing. Free Info. • Write: Trip to Michigan. Stay tuned for Details.
JC, Box-4490-14, Berkeley, CA 94704 TINA Kim,"This is the measure of love, When we An eye for an eye atooth for a booth ride to Chicago theFull and part time help needed for local believe that we can love, That no one Likewise I'm sure 

=te'r need

wee o the 23rd. Julia 5407
record and tape store operation. Apply In could ever have Loved so before us, And MM 
person at Camelot Music University Park that no one will ever Love In The Same Dan fDannr.) K.
Mall Monday, February 26, 10 a.m. to 5 Way After us." Miss Surreptitious, HI. How ve you been? I Just thought
p.m. Ask for Mike Turske (Goethe) I'll leave that up to you, along with the I'd give you a personal and wish you lateAL time and place. 
Merry 5-mas, Happy N.Y., H.V.D. etc. IAnxiously Awaiting hope your GPA Is doing well too.Love,
Interested in volunteer work? Tutors are P.S. Why wait any longer? 
The Basketcase

For Sale 
needed by children In the Notre Dame area: all ages, all studies. As little as one Dear Ann,
Used Book Shop. Wed., Sit., Sun. 9-7 OK Cricket,
hour weekly. Transportation provided. Happy 21st Birthday!Love,
R1lph Casperson 1303 Buchl01n HOld Just because there's snow on the
Call Volunteer Services Office, 7308. Kathy and Steve
Nllea. 6&1-2888. wound It doesn't mean you have to hide n a hole. Can I have a picture of that
Pam-
Bart!
Selling 3 piece uctlonal Kroehlr sofa, hawk? How 'bout It?
Congratulations! Keep up the stream If you die of pneumonia, Who gets the
cllelp, m-1226lftlr 5 writing, and soon -"Marylin In the-"
of excellentemundo car? NIWIWIIk will be at your door. T.H.
1978 FOR SUPERVAN REGULAR GAS. John,
Tert
CAPTAINS CHAIRS* WESTERN Thank you so much for the flower. h
Mardi Gras car raffle was fixes!
MIRRORS* REAR AND SIDE DOOR was so thoughtful
Attention: All students Interested In the
GLASS. READY FOR CONVERSION. T(that's asmall "T")
lranlln and Vletnlmeae Exchlnge Pro-Usa Barrett "Break a leg!!" (good luck in
$6500 OR BEST OFFER. CHRIS* 277· 
grams are cordially Invited to a weapons-your play, etc... ) MJS
4292 or 287·7272 Dan,
training course bein9 offered by the 
Thank rru very much for sending theOffice of Overseas E ur.atlon. Prepare Need ride to Chicago Feb. 23. Please call
vw bus-Excellent coll:reiate car, Best flowers. 'm glad you're so sentimental.
four self for beautiful Hanoi and exotic Mary 4-1-4416
offer. Call 3489 for datal s. T
ehran In a unique way-Get fired Up! See. Panama Red director of Foreign WhOIIYir took the "Disturb" sl~n from
NOTRE DAME at MICHIGAN basketball Bernie "Nard" 0'Brien:
Suicide Exchange Office for further the SMClibrary Reference Desk LEASE
tickets for sale, (Sunday, March 4), $2, We need a ride to Iraq or Iran for spring
details and ammunition. return it. It holds sentimental value for
Mike, (313) 663-3011 break. Will share driving expenses, and
Mrs. Phillppsen. 
If necessary, pose as a hood ornament, If
Get soaked to the Gills at another 
you promise to take us to breakfast. For
Paddleflsh Hap~Hour this Frl~ from DAVE BREHLIII 
further Info, contact us at linebacker Inn.

Tickets 
4-6 at Nickies. r 3/$1.00 and cents DAVE BREHLIII 7 and 7's. Be there. THE TRULY UGUEST MAN IN THE Jane,Kathy, Sco, Duke
Need desperatellaJ4 GA tix to either the WORlD* TO SAY NOTHING OF ONOklahoma or La te B-ball game. Call Hap~y Birthday Margie and Lonnie CAMPUS. HE IS THE EPITOME OF A Dionyslus:
Christ at 288 
Bart sh. Wish you could stay longer! TRUE UMOC. SAVE YOUR PENNIES!II
8021. Your poetf\raeks. Keep your lecher·
THE DAY OF RECKONING COMETH ous paws off Ina. (signed)
H.W., SOON I 
WlnterhawkWanted: 2 GA LaSalle tickets. Call 
I hear you get Into sand ...Don't forget
Maribeth 3845 
,. your pail and shovel next time!! Dillon Hall's Infamous "toots" take to the Ice Thursday night at 12:15. Entertain·
Need 4GA LaSalle tickets, can John 1031 Dlonyslus (alias AJ Paclno) Is not the go
Celia, ment provided by the "toolettes." 
god he pretends to be. Stand up for what
Happy anniversary plus a week! 
you believe ln. You'll be safer In a
Need two LaSalle GA tlx. Nick 1623 
Sean 
Need some~ood company on the way to 
verticalr=:ttlon.

Ft. Lauder ale for break? Three girls
Help! Karen ur~ntly needs 2 GA LaSalle The olkslnWest Wing, South Dining
Dear Andrea, 
need a ride. Will share driving and
tickets. Call 67 . After the torture of being late for expenses. Call 4-1-4165 or 4-1-4382 Hall Valentine's Day. I'll never forget 
The Regina Hall-Freshman Class Formal
Must have 4 GA for LaSalle or east 
another. 
To my ~oommates, my kidnappers, and Is l'iext Flrday! Get your dates and yourCarolina for Chicago attorney. Leel1182 
Love, 
their accomplices -Many thanks for tickets now from your hall and class reps, Urgent: need one or two GA LaSalle Tom making my 21st the best ever. The at $10 per couple. 
drummer at Farrell's and the other Foxy
tickets, 287-8359 
To all the girls from Regina that worked 
ladles at Glprer·s will never be the The Regina Talent Show Is on Friday,
on Mardi Gras, especially Lizzie. Thanks 
same! You're t e best! E (alias "Spoiled February 23rd at 8:00 In the SMC Little
Help! Need GA LaSalle tickets • any 
so much for all your ~-You really 
Rotten") Theater. Be there!
combination. Call Dan 272-1995 
came through when I n ed you! Mary 
Wanted: 2 LaSalle tlx, will pay big, big Important Meetln~f N.D. International Any student (undergraduate or graduate)
Betsy Boyle-Get Psyched • 5 days till 
Zomer Club this nday Seat 34 of the planning marrlage this spring, summer
bucks, Joe 288-2023 
B-day. Teresa . 
SHuttle Bus. For more Information call or early fall 1nd wishing to participate In Beth Squires (8089). Be there or be PrHinl (marrlage preparation) through
Need student tickets for LaSalle and GA' 
Happy Birthday Martha Smile Always.
for East Carolina games. Call Dave at square!! Campus Ministry, must register by
Love,
1146 March 26 In the Library CM Office. 
\

Amy and Gus you're the greatest!! Also 
M.G.M. 
thanks to all SOphomores who helped Dr. D.fl.. Slftr,
wanted: 2 GA East Carolina tickets. Call 
Cathy 8093 Annorexla, with the booth. We couldn't have done It Happy I-dly • tbi "Kill If tM How about a pizza at San Fran Tello's without you. Aloha! I Slllmllldlnl'' Mar ,-~ sacrollltac fuse Radical u · · ··Jost your humer
Desperatelr, need one or two GA East· gracetutty and yo Carolina T x $$$Barry 8921 ­
Today Is Bart=blrtlldly. Clll .. us). Have a grea!. 
llld Ilk t. I cnllll. 
:N,C,M,l,G,A 
All classified ads must be received by 5 00 p.m. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Obsr m office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 J. m. to 5;00 p.m. All cla5&i fieds must be pre-paid. either in Pf''vOn or through the mail. 

1' 
' l 
I \ \ Thursday, February 22, 1979-page 16 
In team effort 
• 

Notre Dame out-classes Chiefs 
! 
by Mike Henry for the remainder of the half with noted. "I was pleased with the Sports Writer consecutive three-pointers. By confidence the squad showed in half-time it was 43-25 and there each other when Kelly Tripucka 
Notre Daine' s third-ranked was no looking back for the Irish. sprained his ankle slightly andbasketball team put on a clinic
1 ''The key to the game was had to leave the game. Also, we
that Dr. Naismith would have
r getting off to an early lead and played with the consistency we're 
marveled at, pummeling under­to need once
displaying early defensive inten­going the NCAA
I manned and outsized Oklahoma 
~ sity," mentor Digger Phelps [Continued on page 14]
i City, 88-60, last evening at the l ACC. I EvFty Irish player fulfilled
. I Golic prepares to wrestle ; 
his role to near-perfection: 
Orlando Woolridge, with his 
awe-inspiring ''in-your-face'' 
slams, Bill Laimbeer and Bruce 
NCAA tournament nears 
Flowers, with yeoman duty under 
\ 
both baskets, Rich Branning with 
\ his floor generalship, Billllinzlik by BillMarquard semi-ftnals. The year before, holding twenty-seven points per Sports Wn"ter Golic finished fourth in the game scorer, Ernie Hill, to 2 of 11 NCAA championships at shooting in the ftrst twenty "My knee feels really good Oklahoma. minutes, and Tracy Jackson with rigfi.t now,'' explained Bob Golic, "I came down here to the a workman-like sixteen points in panting after a tou~h wrestling wrestling room a few weeks ago a relief role. workout last night. ·'In fad, I've and rolled around for awhile, and 
The contest was never in doubt really forgotten that it was ever the knee just didn't feel right," as Notre Dame spurted to a 7-0 injured because it doesn't bother conceded Golic cautiously as he advantage and applied relentless me at all now. took another gulp of water. defensive heat m raising, their .... There's no next week. I will "I really haven't had that seasonal log to 20-3. definitely be wrestling this week-much time to practice. Right now 
d .,
Oklahoma City entered the fray en . I'm working on getting my timing with a 16-9 record fashioned After sitting out the regular down and getting the kinks out. I mainly by the fine play of their season because of football and really feel more confident since guards, Hill, a junior, and dimin­then an injured knee, Notre I've started working with Rob utive Calvin Montgomery. The Dame's• heavyweight All­Dreger.'' Chiefs were hurt, however, by American/is prepared to defend Dreger, who advanced to the 
r '•, the loss of Muncie native Allen his Regional wrestling crown in Nationals with Golic and Dave Leavell, who broke two fingers in the Western Regionals to be held DiSabato last year as a senior, is
t 
a practice session two weeks ago at Notre Dame on Saturday and now an assistant coach for the
I 
I and had six pins put in his hand Sunday. ........ Irish. A 177-pounder last year, to speed the healmg process. ''Mter injuring my knee in the Dreger has been working mostly 
! ''Without Leavell, our outside Southern Cal game and then with Golic for the last week in an shooting suffers and our press re-injuring it in theCottonBowl, I effon to prepare him for this becomes non-existent,'' -City had two doctors look my knee weekend. 
( coach Paul Hansen lamented. over really well,'' explained the Golic has ilso worked out with 
) "And, since we couldn't match Willowick, Ohio nauve who is Notre Dame's freshman heavy­
Notre Dame's strength under the Notre Dame's ftrst two-spon weight Jeff Morris and Tom~ boards, we were forced to play a All-American since "Moose" Zupanctk, a 320-pound t perimeter game. Our guards Krause. Indianapolis gymnasium operator 
L. < went one-on-one too much and it ''But both doctors told me that whom Bob had wrestled in a showed in their shooting (Hill it was only sprained and that no tournament before. by Michael Ortman 10:18.1 in the 1000-yard free­and Montgomery combined to go permanent damage was done," ''Rob has helped me a lot with Sports Wn"ter style. Hilger bettered his own 20-for-55 from the floor) and 10 he added, slapping his left knee ·my timing and quickness, and mark by 3'h seconds · with his the fmal score.'' confidently. Tom has given me some exper­
A wise man once said that time of 10:14.8. The varsity -After a basket by Hill _cut the But the 240-pounder has quite ience against heavier weightsrecords were made to be broken .. record in the 1650-yard freestyle Irish lead to 10-8, Notre Dame a reputation resting on that knee. . and extra strength."and how right he was. This also belongs to Hilger. His time roared back to score eleven His overall wrestling record at "He's a hell of a big guy to season the Irish swimmers have of 17: 17.1 earlier this season uncontested points, and never let Notre Dame is 54-4-1, all' four of wrestle against,'' recalled Golic destroyed the Notre Dame record destroyed Ron Allito's two-year­the margin get into single figures those losses coming in NCAA with an exhausted look. book and rebuilt it with a touch of old record of 17:32.4. "Mike is a again. A three point play by the tournament competttion. The But Golic will need all the 
youth. quiet, hard-working, young Tree contributed to the National Catholic chamfion for preparation he can to get ready . Tuesday afternoon's double man," said coach Stark. "It onslaught, and Tracy Jackson three years mnning unti he was for this year's tournament. flis 
defeat at the hands of Cleveland seems that the farther he swims, added two buckets during the forced to sit out this year's primary competition should come State and Bowling Green wasn't the faster he gets." spree. A twenty-footer by Mont­tourney, Golic finished third in from David Jack, Cal-Poly's a total loss. Three new varsity The list of record holders on gomery, who led all scorers with last year's NCAA Finals at junior jeavywetght who won the records were set in the double this year's squad seems almost twenty-four points, made it Maryland, losing only to eventual Western Regional last year and dual meet bringing this season's endless. In addition to Hilger's 24-12, but then Woolridge and tournament champion Jimmy lost to the eventual NCAA 
total of new marks to five. and LaPlatnev' s two records guard Mike Mitchell set the tone Jackson of Oklahoma State in the [Continued on page 15]f Although the Irish lost to each, five other team bests areI Bowling Green, 79-34 and to held by current Irish tankers. I Cleveland State, 59-54, coach Sophomore John Komara, last 
I 
Dennis Stark was pleased with season's Most Valuable Swim­his team's performance. "We mer, holds four of the records, all swam well," said Stark. "We set last year. His excellent times 
had 15 individaul best times in in the 440 and the 500-yard 
the meet, but we just couldn't get freestyle and in the 200 and 
I 
I! the points together. '' 400-yard indi vidaul medley, 
' Sophomore Pat LaPla~ney led earned the 'South Bend native a the record breakers, settmg new number of spots in the Notre school marks in both the 100 and Dame record book. . 200-yard backstroke and was the Freshman sensation Don
'' 
only first place finisher for the Casey owns a varsity record as Irish. His winning time of 2:00.3 well, but his story is rather in the 200, beat Mark Chiles unique. This amazing youngi year-old time of 2:00.4. Swim­~ took-on the record in the }' ming in the backstroke leg of the 200-yard butterfly, broke it, re­400-yard medley, LaPlat~ey broke it, and then broke it again. 
I 
clocked a rime of 56. 1, beaung His three record breaking perfor­Chiles two-year old mark of 56.5 mances have shaved two full in the 100. seconds off of Bob Reilly's three 
''That was a really fast pool,'' year-old mark of 2:03.4. Casey's said the modest LaPlatney. ''The best time, 2:01.4, came two deeper water there was a big weeks ago against Marshall. help." Bowling Green's Samuel The Irish will attempt to sal­Cooper Pool is really so~thin~ vage a respectable record this special. It is located m thetr Saturday at the Rock when they brand new $9.3 5 million recrea­close out their regular season tion building on campus. against Illinois State. Notre 
The other record brc 'king star Dame, currently 4-6 on the for the Irish was freshman Mike season, will travel to Illinois State Hilger. This amazing rookie the followin~ weekend for the shattered his own record of Midwest Invitational Swim Meet. 












