Parties -page 8
' ' ' 

VOL. XIV, NO. 54 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and sainr mary's ·.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1979 

ABC reports three released from Tehran embassy ... 
(AP) -Militants occupying the U.S. Embassy in Tehran released three American hostages early today, ABC News said in an unconfirmed report. The militants had said they would release 13 American hostages, eight black men and five women, Tehran radio had reported earlier. 
State Department spokesman Walter Ramsey said in Washington U.S. officials had not been informed of the release of any hostages but said, "If it's true, it would of course be very welcome information.'' 
The ABC broadcast identified the released hostages as Marine Sgt. William E. Quarles, of Washington D.C., Marine Sgt. Ladell Maples, 23, of Earle, Ark., and Katherine Gross, 22, of Cambridge Springs, Pa., a secretary in the economics division of the embassy. They had appe(lred at an embassy news conference last night. 
ABC-TV reported from Tehran three hostages were driven through the embassy gate in an American-made car and taken to the Tehran airport for a flight to an unspecified European destination. The report said the release of as many as 1b more Americans was expected within 24 hours. 
They were the first 
Americans freed from the 
embassy since Nov. 4 when the 
militants seized the compound 
and 60 to 62 Americans, 
demanding the United States 
return deposed Shah 
Mohammad Reza Pahlavi to stand trial for his life. 
The militants said unless the shah is returned to Iran they would try the other on charges they were spies. 
fn a late broadcast, Tehran radio reported the militants sadi they were following the orders of revolutionary leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini to investigate alleged espionage activities at the embassy and to release blacks and women who were absolved. 
The militants said yesterday that unless the shah is returned to Iran, they would try the other on charges that they had spied on Iran in the course of their diplomatic duties. 
Their statement said representatives of the Inter­national Red Cross and a doctor 

· from its Iranian affiliate visited the hostages designated for release and pronounced them fit. The 13 hostages will be handed over the Foreign Ministry on Monday ''so that immediate action for their expulsion" might be taken, the broadcast said, but gave no time for the handover. Three American hostages appeared at a news conference in the embassy yesterday and said they understood they would be released within the following 24 hours. Maples, referring to the shah in the television interview, said: "I don't know that much about the shah, I've heard much about him and I've heard about what he might have dcnw 


Carter administration waits, watches 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Carter administration waited, watched, and kept silent yesterday, hoping in vain that Iran would release at least the blacks and women among some 60 Americans held hostage at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran. 
By nightfall, officials at the White House and State Department said it seemed likely that the 13 blacks and women Iran said it would free would have to wait until today to leave the country. 
Tehran radio reported that militants occupying the embassy said they would release the 13 blacks and women into the custody of the Iranian foreign ministry today for expulsion from the country. 
White House spokesman Jody Powell said President Carter, spending the weekend at Camp David, kept in touch with the situation through telephone calls to Secretary ofState Cyrus Vance and National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski. 
Officials, sfeaking privately, said they had no official confirmation o reports that Iran might try the remaining hostages for espionage. 
In Interviews with the three American television networks, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini was quoted in various ways as saying that the remaining American embassy personnel either would be or might be tried for espionage. 
Offtcials said they were trying to discern the reason for the apparent discrepancies in Khometni's remarks. They insisted that such trials would be in violation of international law. Beyond that, the administration said very little. __ 
"I am not going to deal with a whote ~et of very legitimate questions until those people are actually out of the country. There is nothing I can say that will do anything to assist in their release, and there are a number of things I could say that could in fact endanger them or prevent the release of the limited numJ)er that are going out,'' one official told reporters at the State Department. 
He refused robe quoted by name. 
Department spokesmen also said they had no knowledge of reports that the former shah would be leaving New York and returning to Mexico on Monday. 
The administration has insisted that it will not pressure the shah while he was here. being held were ''very good.''


"I can't say that he should be "We haven't had anyreturned for trial or not. I don't problems," she said. "We've know .... '' slept nights. There haven't 
Gross said the conditions 
[continued on page 2]
under which the hostages were 

to leave, but expects that he will do so when he and his doctors decide it is no longer necessary for him to be in New York. 
Asked whether the United States or a third country would send aircraft to Iran to pick up any released hostages, Spokesman Hod ding Carter said the State Department was ''prepared to insure that they (the black and female hostages) can leave" Iran. But he refused to provide details of how and where they would be taken. 
Students promote aid for Cambodia 
by Kel/i Flint StaffReporter 
The Students Concerned for 
Cambodia (SCC) and the Cam­
~odi~ Respo_nse groups,. work­
mg 10 COnJUnction Wlth the 
Catholic Relief Service, held 
activities over the weekend to 
raise money and support for the 
Holy Cross sisters on the Thai­
land-Cambodian border. 
''The activities were held to 
educate students about the ·problem in Cambodia," John Pinter, spokesman for the Cam­bodian Response said. "The Cambodia Response doesn't 
want group identification. We 
are open to everyone interested 
in helping alleviate the situa­
tion in Cambodia." 
According to Pinter, a "Cam­bodia ResQonse" was held from 5 p.m. Thursday until 5 Friday evening. Dur!ng this time, hall members held a collection with­in . t~~ halls and organized acttv1t1es to make students aware of the Cambodian situa­tion. Organizations also do­nated funds, and halls made corporate contributions. some matching the amount collected from hall members. ''Every hall participated in some way during this period," Pinter said. 
A mass was said Friday for the 
retugees.by Fr. Theodore-He's~ 
burgh, University president: 
all tunds collected during the 
Response period were present­
ed at the Offertory of the mass. 
''The donations are in excess 
of five thousand dollars with 
more pledges coming in,'' 
Pinter said. "An exact figure 
will be announced at a later 
time." 
·The Students Concerned for Cambodia held a workshop Friday evening to educate those interested in learning about the refugees' ordeal in Cambodia. A local attorney, representing a refugee f~mily in South Bend, 
(continued on page 2] 

SM C assembly revises budget 
by Margie Brass£1 SMC News Editor 
The Saint Mary's Student Assembly met last night and approved the final revision of the first semester budget, dis­cussed security and approved proposals for changing judicial board procedures. 
Treasurer Sheila Wixted re­ported the proj€cted budget for the first semester had been $37,084 and the total expendi­ture has amounted to $36,120 so far. This budget will be revised again and projects for the second semester will be adjusted accordingly, according to Wixted. The Assembly voted unanimously to approve the budget. 
Student Government Presi­dent Pia Trigiani announced that in response to su~gestions made for tighter secunty on the SMC campus, a security hut is being built near the front gate on the left side of the main drive leaving campus. The hut is all glass with a view down the SMC side of U.S. 31 and partially down the ND side. Lighting all around campus was checked last week and new 
lighting for the main road is being tested. Lighting for the pedestrian path is also being considered, according to Trig­iani. Spotlights are planned for the walk by the east entrance of Lemans and from Madeleva 
Hall. · · 
Judicial Commissioner Marth Boyle outlined three proposals for the re-vamping of the Judicial Board. Boyle is work­
ing on restructuring the judicial system, a process which will take the entire semester to complete. 
The two main proposals voted on and approved unanimously were the structure of the judi­cial process,and the disbanding of the Hall Boards. Formerly after a violation ·a student was called before her hall director for sanctioning. After that she could appeal to the Hall Board, the Student Relations Board and finally, the Appeals Board. 
[continued on page 4] 


News in brief 
Report shows inequality in defense expenditures 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Most of the country's 435 congressional ~istr_icts pay· more in taxes for the Pentagon than they recetve 10 ddense spending, and more than half have a net loss of at least $100 million a year, a new study says. The net res~:~lt !s that the Pent~g~>n budget drains money out of 305 d1stncts and funnels tt toto 130 districts according to the an~lysis re~eased yesterday. The analysi~ also supports . earlier studies that defense spending is conce':ltrat~d tn _th~ South and Southwest. "Military spendtng 1s a pnnc1pal source of drastic imbalance and inequity in the federal tax burden and budget allocation," the study concluded. 
Carter looks for victory as Rorida primary approaches 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. (AP) -President Carter, working to repeat the Florida victories that helped propel him toward the White House four years ago, overwhelmed Sen. Edward Kennedy in a non-binding straw ballot yesterday at the state's Democratic convention. Carter won 1,114 delegates to Kennedy's 351, a margin of 76 percent to slightly less than 24 percent. Nine delegates expressed no preference. California Gov. Edmund Brown Jr. was not on the ballot. Strategists on both sides said the real showdown between Carter and Kennedy will be on March 11 in the Florida primary when 100 Democratic National Convention delegates will be chosen. 
Pope visits Turkey 
tn discussion of rift 
_YA ?"I~AN CITY (~P)-Pope] ohn Paul II said yesterday he wtll VISit Turkey this month to open a dialogue with his counterpart in the Eastern Orthodox Church "to overcome together'' the 900-year-old rift between the Roman Catholic and the eastern churches. Demetrius I, patriarch of the Eastern ~nhodox Church in Istanbul, expressed "deep joy" on_ learnmg of the pore's three-day visit and in a statement sa1d _rhe latest papal d1plomacy was within' 'the framework of cord1al brotherly relattons" between the churches. Vatican officials said the pope plans to begin the visit Nov. 28. Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox churches split in the Great Schtsm of 1054, when many Christian churches in the West accorded the bishop of Rome supremacy over other bishops. 
Purdue discovers danger in some health foods 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) -Some health foods touted for their natural properties actually cause more harm than good, warns the dean of Purdue University's pharmacy school: Dr. Varro E. Tyler says that in fact, some are even downnght dangerous. Part of the problem, he said, is that most of what are .c~lled health food~ are no longer dispensed under the superv1s1on of a pharmacist but instead are sold in specialty stores. 

Weather 
Clo.udy and warm today with a 30 percent chance of ocras10nal rain. Highs in the upper 50s and low 60s. Mostly cloudv and mdd tontght and tomorrow, with overnight lows 10 the mtd 30s to about 40, and highs tomorrow in the low and mid 50s. 
' 


CamP-_us_~ 
6:45pm--ROSARY, daily at the GROTTO 
7 pm--FILM, "no act of god," sponsored by student council & college of business, LIBRARY AUD. 
12:15 pm--WORKSHOP, "buchanan on contract: · some reflecti~ns," by dr. steve worland, sponsored by the dept. of economics, LIB. LOUNGE. 
7:30 pm--FILM, "dodes' ka-den" sponsored by nd/smc spdr, WASHINGTON HALL 
9 pm--MEETING, mardi gras committee and hall chairmen SR. BAR ' 
?-1~ pm-:RADIO, "t~,Ik it up," o~ wsnd subject this evening 
IS studies abroad, part 1 wtll cover rome, innsbruck 
angers & ireland, call 6400. ' 
[continued from page 1] 

spoke on the Cambodian crisis. Members of the refugee family were also present to answer questions on their ordeal in Cambodia. Background on the Cambodian culture was given by a Notre Dame anthropology 
professor. 

Members of the SCC solicited at the dining halls throughout the weekend and collections were taken at Saturday's foot­ball game. According to SCC spokesman Lou Reifschneider about twenty-four hundred dol: Iars was collected by solicitors and this amount is expected to increase this week. 
Bread was baked and sold by sec members at the game 
. Iran 

[continued from pageI] 
been any problems physically. Maybe people have been mentally upset, but other than that we haven't had ay problems.'' .. 
At a morning news conference, conducted on the embassy grounds, students told American and Iranian reporters the chosen group of hostages would be released later in the day. But of the remainder, "those who are spies" will face trial, news reports said, unles America sends them Shah 
[continued on page 9] 

1Kwai' 
•


movte cancelled 
The film, The Bridge Over the River Kwai, scheduled for 7 and 10:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium, has been cancelled due to an administrative error. 
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Rod Beard Asst. Night Editor: Teri Michielutti, Deirdre Murphy Copy Editor: Lynne Daley Layout Staff: Danny Tarullo News Editor: Mike Lewis Editorial Layout: Greg Hedges Features Layout: Bruce Oakley Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Kim Convey, Marilyn Broderick, Carol Cornwall EMT: Bill "I can't believe I'm doing this" Swift Pmnfreader: Mark Rust NO Day Editor: Bob Bernoskie SMC Day Editor: Lisa Stanczak 

Ad Design: Dave Wood, Anne Fink Photographer: Dave Rum bach 
The Observer !USPS • 920] Is published Monday through Friday u­ctpl during exam 1nd viCitiln periods. The Observer is published by tilt students Ill Notrt 011111 * Sllnt Miry's Ctfllgt. Sulllcripallllnwy Ill purchatcl tar S2ll per ye~r l$11 per Sllllllllrllrom The Observer. 1'.0. 1111 0. Nttrt b11111. 1111111111 4llilii. SICIIId 
CIISS =..ld. Nltll 011111, 111­
dilna . 
The Observer Is 1 ......., If IIIII AIIOCI1ttcl Praa. All tijM.-ctlln rlgllts lrt I"ISifWd. 


Monday, Noyember 19, 1979 -page 2 
• • • Catnbodia 
Saturday. "One hundred and fifty dollars were collected,'' Reifschneider said, "but most of the people who gave did not accept the bread. The extra loaves of bread were given to the Hope Rescue Mission in South Bend."
•

The SCC is sponsoring a fast for the Cambodtan refugees today during lunch time. Fifteen hundred-forty eight students signed up to donate their lunch to the Cambodia cause. A faster's concert will be given in the LaFortune Ballroom today 
from 11:30 a.m. until 1 p.m. "No money collected lor the refugees was used in our cam­
paign," Reifschneider stress­ed. All materials used in the campaign were financed by the coordinators of the sec. 
The money collected by the two organizations will be placed in an account for the Holy Cross sisters. The Thailand account, which is in a South Bend bank, is drawn upon directly from the field by the sisters. The sisters draw from the account based on their present needs. 
"We're working for corres­pondence with the sisters," Reifschneider said. "We want to bring back an awareness of the situation, so that the re­sponse will continue." We also hope to make students aware that the Cambodia situa­tion is the only one of many that require our concern.'' 
According tO sec spokesmen, the red bands worn by sec members represent the need and the pressing problem it creates. "We hope these bands have aroused an awareness in students, and that they will act upon this awareness with com­mitment." Reifschneider said. "We want to affect students more deeply than financially." 


WILD TURKEY (101) 
75¢ 
STUDENT UNION RECORD
SALE second floor Iafortune  
FLEETWOOD MAC  TUSK  $8.99  
EAGLES THE LONG RUN TEVIE WONDER  $8.80  

SECRET LIFE OF PLANTS $8.80 
check out our everyday low prices $7.98 list-$5.10 limited quantities available $8.98 list-$5.70 


Monday, November 19, 1979 ··_ page 3
The Observer 
by jane Kirby living conditions that prompted Hinde reviewed the One of Nicaragua'sit. history of the country from its reconstruction problems today
Two "Patricia Iibare o morir". "It was the only option they 
early days of colonial is the lack of capital, according "Free country or death" were had'' she said of the revolution. 
exploitation through the over­to Fr. Hind. When Somoza fled 
expertence 
• the words Sr. Betty Campbell "They weren't just people who throw of the Somoza regime last the country, he took the "beef" and Fr. Peter Hinde echoed as wanted to have a war. They July. He described the U.S. out of the country --as well as 
they addressed a group of fifty had really suffered for many role in the development of $33 million loaned by the U.S. in the library lounge last night years." She stated that many Nicaragua since the buildup of last April.about their expenences with of the rural people she worked the National Guard by the U.S. 
"We need a good
with had never seen a doctor the recent overthrow of the before. She showed slides of 
revolution the Nicaraguan people after Marines that were protecting investigative reporter to find 
American interests there from out where all of Somoza's 
Somoza regime. people still living in buildings 1912-1932. This National money is today'' he
• 
· Campbell, a nurse and that had not been reconstructed
m 
Guard/rovided the West Point commented. 
midwife, who traveled through since the earthquake of 1972 traine ex President Somoza Hinde described the Nicaragua to help establish and of children working on with his military strength. Nicaraguans as "a veryhealth centers, witnessed not cotton, coffee and banana ''Somoza owned SO% of all the
Nicaragua only the destruction of the plantations where DDT could arable land" he said. [continued on page 8] revolution but also the terrible be used. 

ND-SMC presents 


'The Heiress' 
The Notre Dame-Saint -­Mary's Theatre will present The Heiress by Ruth and Au­gustus Geotz, to be staged in Sai_nt Mary's O'Laughlin Audi­tonum. 
The Heiress is a classic adaptation of Henry James' novel, Washington Square. 
Professor Frederic Syburg is directing the production. Sy­burg directed Blithe Spirit for the 1979 Summer Theatre Com­pany. 
Professor David Weber is serving as scenographer and costume designs are by Diana Hawfield. 
Production dates for The Heiress are November 30, De­cember 1, 6, 7, and 8. For ticket information call the ND­SMC Box Office at 284-4176. 


Asst. dean 
• 

The walk along Notre Dame Ave. is especially enjoyable on recezves 
a beautzful day [photo by Dave Rumbach] 
•


appozntment
Two strange incidents 
Kathleen Maas Weigert, assistant dean of the College of 
Arts and Letters, has been given a concurrent appointment as assistant professor in the 

high1ighT]Oml1aO weekend 
by Lynne Daley Clemson people didn't seem to American Studies Program attake to the idea.'' 

Notre Dame, according to Isa­In two unrelated incidents this The Clemson fans were not bel Charles, dean of the col­
weekend, students at Notre alone in their opinion of the lege.
Dame challenged time-honored venture. "Two ushers tried to Weigert, a Notre Dame faculty 
institutions that are an integral throw me out of the stadium," member since 1974, received 
part of that hallowed event: the Woods admitted. They relent­her Ph.D. in sociology from 
football weekend. ed, however, when Woods ex­Notre Dame in 1972. Her 
plained his purpose. ­

First, members of the band academic area of interest is 
"I wanted to make a joke out

marching past Breen-Phillips political sociology, and her 
of it and bring a smile to peo­

Hall on thetr traditional ''wake­doctoral dissertation was on 
ple's faces,'' he explained.

up'' march were doused with stratification and ideology water balloons dropped from an among Black soldiers. 

Hard to find Records? 
Go to 

Just for the Record, 

whose new specialty 
recordinart (thousands of collectors albums and cutouts) will open SOON at LOEWS Merchandise Mart 

Next to bus station, downtown 
Help Develop Tomorrow's Energy Business Today! 

Go & Grow with AMERICAN NATURAL RESOURCES. COMPANY 
Leaders in Energy Sources Exploration! Become Involved in Dynamic Projects Related to... 
• Natural Gas Exploration • Processing • Trans­mission • Distribution to Users Through Over 50 Utilities • Coal Development & Mining • Coal Gasification 
Investigate career opportunities now in the following disciplines: Bus. Admin. • Economics 
M.E. • C.E. • Computer Science • Geology Finance • E. E. • Ch.E. • Accounting • I.E. • Basic Engineering 
Contact your College Placement Office to arrange an appointment. 
We'll be on your campus Friday, Nov. 30. 
AMERICAN NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY 
ANG Coal Gasification Company American Natural Gas Production Company ANR Coal Company ANR Freight System, Inc. 
ANR Storage Company 
@

American Natural Service Company Great Lakes Gas Transmission Company Michigan Consolidated Gas Company Michigan Wisconsin Pipe Line Company 
ONE WOODWARD AVENUE, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 
upper floor of the dorm. "Some 
people were really drenched,'' 

Council

claimed one irate band mem­
ber. 
The students responsible for sponsorsthe attack protest that the band plays too loudly, too early. "They make more noise before 

film 

the game than at the stadium," said one hall resident. 
The Undergraduate StudentIn the second incident, which Council for the College oftook place during the game, ND Science will sponsor he film Nostudent Bill Woods peddled 

ActofGodtoday at 7:30p.m. in

blank computer programs in the the Library Auditorium. Thestands, shouting, aptly enough, film was produced by the
''programs.'' 
National Film Board of Canada 

"I woke up with one of the and claims to be an impartial sorest throats in town,'' discussion of the advantages, Woods, a graduate student in and problems associated with chemical engineering, said. nuclear power as an energy The stunt was good enough to source. earn Woods a $6.76 profit. An open discussion will follow ''Some people thought I was the half-hour movie with Dr. zany enough to fork out 25 Paul Kenney, professor of Phy­cents," he said. sics, and Dr. John Lucey, 
Interestingly enough, Woods professor of Engineering. The noted, "all my customers were film and discussion is open to in the Notre Dame section. the public without charge. 
ROCCQS.----t men's and. women's hairstyling 
at comfortable prices 5·31 N. Michigan 233-4957 






MEMBER 
Don't forget to bring your Mardi Gras raffle books home over Thanksgiving!! 
.............. .... _..., .... ~
_ _ ~· 


WASHINGTON (AP) someone between 5 and 5. 5 feet Dr. Anna K. Behrensmeyer Scientists have found what are tall, weighing about 120 of Yale University and the
Scientists 

believed to be the oldest fossil pounds. The individual University of California, footprints made by a direct apparently walked from a very co-leader of the expedition, said ancestor of man, 1. 5-miilion­wet, muddy area onto drier that at the time the footprints

discover 

year-old tracks along a lake mud because some of the prints were made, there were two shore in northern Kenya. are larger than others. know forms of hominids, or human-like creatures.
oldest fossil The seven fo.otprints The discovery was made in probably were made by Homo sedimentary deposits along the Along with Homo erectus, erectus, whose evolutionary northeast shore of Lake there was Australopithecus, 
path leads straisht to modern whose skull bones were heavier
Turkana, about 350 miles north

footprints 
and brain was smaller than hisman, the Nauonal Science of Nairobi. Three prints were

Foundation announced Sunday. contemporary. Both walked 
uncovered in August 1978 while upright on two feet.
Scientists say the footprints

in Kenya 

a trench was being dug and the The two types are believed toappear to have been left by rest last July. 
have come from a common anyestor, but the line of Australopithecus died out for unknown reasons while Homo 
erectus lived on . "Both of these forms of hominids are potential candidates for the maker of the 



Appeals 
[continued from page lJ 1 disbanding of the Hall Boards, violation-from a written warn­
tracks we found,'' said

which according to Boyle has wing to disciplinary probation 
Behrensmeyer. "But the case

not been used in several years. to social probation. Disciplin­
The new process will give is stronger for Homo erectus
Instead, the second proposal ary probation could lead to
students, dependin~ on the because its fossil bones are
calls for an equal representa­social probation for further
seriousness of the vtolation, a preserved in nearby strata, but
tion among students on the violation. Social probation,
choice of going before the hall not the bones of Australopithe­
Judicial Board. defined as ''flagrant abuse of
clirec~ors; panel or the Student cus.''
The third proposal, also ap­rules," could lead to suspen­
Relauon'-s Board. If a student proved unanimously by the sion from the college or removal The scientist said the 
is not satisfied she may appeal Assembly, discontinued the from the dorm. expedition also found tools to the Appelate Board, which current educational sanctions, made of pebbles and cobbles in consist$ of one student, one which include mandatory hall All these proposals and any the same sediment beds. Some administrator and one faculty desk duty for certain violations. other changes in the judicial had sharp edges and other were member. The new system of sanctioning system will go into effect next like choppers and hammers. 
The new structure calls for the will range-depending on the semester. She attributed them to the 



lliste thepride ofCanada. Molson. 
You'll get a taste of nearly 200 years of brewing heritage every time you open a cool, green bottle of MOLSON GOLDEN.™ North America's oldest brewery got its start back in 1786. John Molson, our founder, wouldn't recognize our modem breweries, but he'd be proud of the good, smooth taste of GOLDEN.™ A taste that says Canada in every refreshing sip. 
Brewed and bollled In Canada; imporled by Morl/eilmporling Co.. Inc., Greol Nec/r. N y 

toolm~king skill of Homo erectus. 
While the new footprints are the oldest yet found for a direct ancestor of man, and the first example of Homo erectus tracks ever uncovered, they are not the oldest hominid prints known. 
A research group led by Dr. Mary Leakey earlier found 3.6 million-year-old hominid footprints at Laetoli in Tanzania. They are believed to belong to an older, more primitive relative of man · perhaps in the Australopithecus family. 
Women~ 

.assoctatton honors Kelly 
Ruth Kelly, treasurer and manager of the Notre Dame Credit Union, has been chosen "Boss of the Year" by the South Bend Charter Chapter of the American Business Wom­en's Association. 
The award was presented to Mrs. Kelly at a November 14 dinner of the chaper, held in the Notre Dame University Club and addressed by' Charles W. Smith, Notre Dame hockey coach. 
Mrs. Kelly joined the staff of the Notre Dame Credit Union 14 years ago., and during her 12 years as treasurer anJ manager its assets have ~rown from S1.8 million to $19 mtllion. 
She is also on the state board of directors for the Indiana Credit Union League and a director of the International Credit Coun­cil. 
Hesburgh appoints new advisors 

J.::Jl.._ l~rf,r I ' r •rl"'\o.,r ,,J 
Two appointments to Notre Dame advisory councils were announced last week by Father Theodore M. Hesburgh. 
John E. Echlin, retired chair­man of the board of Echlin Manufacturing Company now living in Boca Raton, Fla., was appOinted to the College of Business Administration Advis­ory Council. 
Also, Joyce Hank, wife of Bernard). Hank, Jr., chairman of the board for Montgomery Elevator Co.of Moline, Ill., was appointed to the Advisory Council of the Art Gallery. 
The University's advisory councils consist of 30 to 40 persons who meet annually with University officials to dis­cuss the develo~ment of Notre Dame's academic divisions. 

Mardi Gras 
•


commtttee to meet 

There will be a Mardi Gras meeting tonight at 9:00 at the Senior Bar. All Committee members, hall chairmen, raffle chairmen and architects are asked to attend (there will be a list at the door). The business portion will be followed by a smoker at 10. I.D.'s are required. 


Editorials 
1 Monday, November 19, 1979 -page 5 
The Observer, contributors fail to address issues 
Thomas K.ellenberg 
In this past week, The cloned. The very real and very Observer has published per-serious issue which Mr. haps the most malicious, isnor-Stewart, Mr. Lauer and the ant, and utterly bigoted pieces Editorial Board refuse to of journalistic nonsense concer-address is whether a man ning the current tragedy in Iran accused of suppressing an that I have yet encountered. entire nation, a man accused of The Observer has shown not exploiting millions upon mil­only remarkably poor judgment lions of dollars, and a man in publishing Christopher A. accused of ordering the torture, Stewart's article "The Shame mutilation, and execution of of Iran" and Paul Lauer's thousands of human beings, article "A Modest Proposal", should be allowed to remain in but has also shown a penchant the United States. for incoherent rambling and Although The Observer editor­shoddy journalism in the editor-ial states correctly that it is ial ''Who Bears The Blame?''. neither the duty nor the right of 
The Editorial Board ti The the United States to pass judg­Observer, as well as Mr. ment on the deposed Shah Stewart and Mr. Lauer, refuse Mohammad Reza Pahlevi, it is to address either objectively or logically perverse for the Edi­intelligently the very serwus torial Board to conclude that the and very complex issues invol· Shah has some sort of innate ved in the takeover of the U.S. right to a diplomatic immunity Embassy in Tehran. For while from prosecution. Forgive me the Editorial Board trivializes if I appear stupid, but the_ logic the current concern in devoting of the argument, and in fact the an entire editorial to tongue-logic of the entire edjtorial, lashing Iranian students in the esqapes me. · United States for supporting A.lthoulj';h there are some who their homeland, and while both believe 1t to be not only cruel Mr. Stewart and Mr. Lauer but also entirely unjust for the merely make mockery of the United States, or for that matter Iranian people, their culture, for any nation, to-return Mr. and their religion, no one, it Pahlevi to certain execution at seems, has shown the concern the hands of his own people, it to approach this situation in an is, and it has always been the unprejudiced, mature, and demand of the Iranian people rational manner. that the deposed Shah be tned Although both The Observer not necessarily by the Iranian editorial and the article written people themselves, but rather by Mr. Lauer approach the by a disinterested and impartial takeover with a naivete and lack international court. If of insight which may be President Carter finds this so excused, it is Mr. Stewart's diffic•lt to grant, perhaps his article, oozing with religious so-cahed concern for human and racial hatred and calling for rights is not quite what it an unrestrained and immediate should be. attack on the Iranian people, Finally, forgive me if I appear that is difficult to stomach. too harsh in denouncing the 
The very real and very serious articles written by Mr. Stewart issue involved in the current and Mr. Lauer, or the Editorial tensions between the United Board responsible for The States and Iran is not, as Mr. Observer editorial. However, Stewart would have it, whether ~ignorance and an inex­the act of terrorism and inter-cusable naivete are allowed to national blackmail perpetrated be irresponsibly propounded by by a very few Iranian zealots is those who know ltttle of the a legitimate and justifiable act, . facts, and who appear to care for no act of terrorism, whether even less, it is imperative not its cause be right or wrong, can that they be scolded, but rather ever, in any instance, be con-. that they be corrected. 
P. 0. Box Q 


Recent action undertaken by the Interhall athletic depart­ment has resulted in my own ineligibility from interhall foot· ball and, more drastically, the elimination of the Off-Campus football team from playoff com­petlttori. I was victimized by a rule that states specifically: If a person has earned a varsity 
letter at another institution, he I she is prohibited from par­ticipating in the sport in inter­hall athletics." After pl~ymg nearly two years in interhall football (without knowledge of the rule), I was "found out" and, consequently, declared in­eligible. A very successful and rewarding season for twenty­two football players and a chance to prove ourselves champions were suddenly gone. 
There is no need to question the validity of interhall' s accu­sation regarding my "guilt," for the rule does exist and I did earn a varsity letter at John Carrol University before trans­ferring to Notre Dame. What does need to be examined is 
whether the rule itselfis a just and fair one. My teammates and I, along with the majority of those students most directly involve'clwith interhall athletics (coaches, athletic commission­ers, interhall staff) contend that the rule is unfair and should be changed. 
Is .lt right for this University to deny a transfer student the opportunity to compete athlet­ically simply because he/she has lettered at another school? Very few people know what it means to transfer, to have to ''re-encounter'' many of the hardships we commonly asso­ciate w1th our freshman year. 
The chance to participate in any 
level of athletic competition 
provides a student with an 
excellent opportunity to devel­
op him I her self not only 
physically, but socially and 
emotionally as well. The ruie in 
question clearly discriminates 
against any transrer wno may 
have earned a varsity letter 
prior to his/her becoming a 
student here at Notre Dame. 
The rule attaches too much ing the rule now. But this IS inportance to the "letter" precisely what the athletic com­someones earns and does not missioners from fourteen of the address itself to the actual sixteen male dorms on campus caliber of play that person is wanted. This is what the able to perform. The interhall Off-Campus Council wanted. _ office claims that such a rule This is what the Student Body "protects" interhall partici-President wanted. And oddly pants from varsity ,athletes who enough, this is what HolyCross--. would otherwise 'dominate and the team that filed the original destroy athletic competition protest, wanted. What the among non-varsity athletes. great majority of the students But by assuming that a person d~emed proper and fair in this who holds a varsity letter f~om 'circumstance was, however, another institution is "too denied. In an interhall athletic· good•' for inter hall or somehow system that is designed for and, equivalent to a Notre Dame to a large extent, by the varsity athlete (in athletic abil-students, I consider it a ity)' the interhall office is being tragedy that these student con~-"­unrealistic. How many transfer cerns were not transformed into student are willing and able to action by an interhall office . 
whose most fundamentlil com-
I h

become varsity ath etes ere at mitment and responsibility lies
Notre Dame? You would be 
with the studentsit serves.
hard pressed to find even a £ew.
'f , , . , , . No one will experience the 
. And I protect!on IS so pain and frustration associated Important for t~e l~terhall of: with the rule's existence and flee why are vars1ty walk-o~s /the interhall office's Jack of and all-state players o~t ?fhl~h responsive action more than the school allowed to participate. Off-Campus football team. But I~ there re~lly th~t mu~h of a we as well as the controversy d1fference In thetr cahber of surrounding this whole affair, play as oppo_sed to one who Iwill pass with time. It is of earns a. varsity letter _from a extreme importance that the very small college? _I. thmk no~, athletic commissioners of each for the only real difference IS I hall pressure the interhall office that one hold~ a letter. I~ and I to change the rule as soon as when a varsi_ty _letter wmner possible. Investigate all the from USC, Michigan or Texas . rules and decide for yourselves tral1sfers to Notre Dame and if each one is fair to the really wants to play interh~ll, non-varsity athlete here at the lnterhall office can deal with , Notre Dame. The rule which such a rare occurrence either on victimized the Off-Campus foot­an individual basis or through a ball team has stood for fifteen specific rule. The "blanketing years. If the rules had been effect'' of a rule that applies to subject to a more severe scm­all varsity letter winners from tiny on the part of the athletic other institutions does a /reat commissioners, there would be deal more harm than goo . talk of a controversy, no talk of 
It was the overhelming optmon , unfaithfulness~ no teeli!l~S of of the Off-campus football bitterness ~nd frustrat_ion. . team the interhall coaches I have. not Intended thts article athle~ic commissioners, and ~o be an all-out "attack" on the other concerned students that mterhall system nor on those because the rule is unjust as it peoJ?le responsible for its ad­stands, the Off-Campus team mim_stration. I only hope that should be allowed to participate the mterha~l ?ffice;, as w~ll as in playoff competiton. How-all_ the a~mm~strauve '?od1es of ever, efforts on behalf of myself I th1s Umvers1ty, reahze th_at and my teammates (through an they have more. of a commit­appeal) to secure our rightful 1 ment ~o the mterests and position in the playoffs failed. ; well-bemg of Notre D~me stu­
they failed because interhall . dents . than . to a . ~tnct, and officials decided against chan!). sometimes msensltlve ~dher­
• <? . ence to rules and regulations. 
UniversityArchives has true spirit 
Dear Editor: 
The University Arr·hives, in the spirit of the coming Christmas season, plans to dispense with its usual prac­tices of exchanging gifts among staff members and sharing, together with its student em­ployees, in a holiday luncheon. Instead, the money previously allocated to underwrite these expressions of holiday giving will have a differen( use this year. 
In this time of tragedy and upheaval in Cambodia, the Archives's staff and student workers have decided to con­tribute their Christmas "gifts," in equal shares, to the work of the Sisters of the Holy Cross who recently left for the refugee camps on a medical mercy 
mission; and, through the United Religious Community, 
to the support of a Cambodian family now living in South 
Bend. 

It is hoped that others in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community might join the staff and students of the Archives in the way they've chosen to celebrate their faith this Christmas. 
Peter]. Lombardo 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 
-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ..... .............Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor..... Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonizl Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor ..... .........Doug Christian 
opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor .........M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ......Mike Lewis Business Manager ........Steve"9dland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor ... ................. Mark Rust Production Ma11ager..... ./] gh_n McGrath ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor ........ ......... Mike Shields Advertising Manager .........Bob Rudy . I and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor ..... Ellen Buddr. Controller..................Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brasstl Circulation Manager ...... Greg Hedges 
--~-­

Features 

Thanksgiving is coming. Beware! It can be a splendid holiday; a wonderful celebration. But it's also a challenging time. We could pervert the feast and make it a travesty.
Allow me to set a scene. I am sitting down for the traditional Thanksgiving meal. I am asked to offer grace; and so I begin to mutter words of thanks for various blessings, thinking myself pretty pious, without rhe least thought of the self­condemnation I may be performing. 
1 may never examine what it truly means for me to give thanks. If I am a typical American, I may give thanks for riches, abundance, all the advan­tages of the well-to-do. And at the end of my prayer, I may condescend­ingly say (and haven't we heard this a hundred times?) : "Let us also remember those less fortunate than ourselves.'' 
What does all of this really mean? First of all, I might very well be laboring under the delusion that riches and abundance are a si~n of God's favor and pleasure. That 1s the same myth that was so popular in .Jesus' time. Jesus attacked this interpretation, saying that not only arc nches and abundance not a sign of God's favor but a serious obstacle to entering the kingdom of God. 
The Jew•sh people of Jesus' day made the same mistake many of us make. They thought things like wealth and good health were evi­dence of God's approval. They considered them blessings, in the sense thay they wouldn't have them unless God wanted them to. And they thought that those without these possessions (health, riches, the finer things oflife) were being punished by•God. · 
Remember the incident when people asked Jesus about the blind man: "Who sinned? This man himself, or his parents?" Jesus tried to teach them a lesson many of us have yet to learn: Suffering, illness, misfortune, poverty--none of these have anything whatsoever to do with a judgment by God. Far from being a sign of God's disfavor, persons in these circumstances are, according to scripture, God's "precious," His ''favorites.'' 
The truth we find difficult to understand is the fact that God does not personally bring about all these situations; he does not "cause" a person to be poor, to be blind; nor does he decree the opposite--that the person be healthy, wealthy, loaded with talents. 
This sho~ld help us see that there is a big difference between being "unblessed" and being "unlucky". Tragedy and misfortune are no sign at all of God's judgment, or a revelation of His "unblessing"--his curse upon us for some sin or failure. There has been more suffering in the world because people fail to see 
this. I know a young woman, for example, whose daughter has been diagnosed as having leukemia. This mother has b~en drivin~ herself crazy, going back over her ltfe, trying to discover what she did wrong for which God is now punishing her. 
Thus it is very tricky to give thanks for our "blessings." What I give thanks for may be something I should do penance for. Note, for instance, the obscenity of American pioneers giving thanks for the land--land for 
which they killed and robbed the Indians. The "blessings" (riches and abundance) I give thanks for may be signs that I have withheld from others their rightful share of God's creation. 
We are all equally blessed; that is, equally loved by God. We are not, however, equally lucky; that is, the free circumstances of life have work­ed out differently for each of us. 
What does it mean, then, when I consider those ''less fortunate'' than myself? What, in other words, does it mean for me to consider the Cambodians or the dying people of Mother Teresa's Calcutta as "less fortunate''? Are these persons ''less fortunate" because God planned it, because they have sinned, because they are less worthy? 
Feeling sorry for the "less fortu­nate," I may piously include them in my Thanksgiving prayer; and say to God: "Lord, help the less fortu­nate.'' If I truly listened at this point, God would answer me by saying, "You help the unfortunate ... for, you see, many of the so-called less fortunate didn't just get that way by 
accident of fate or because I decreed it. Much of the "less fortune," the suffering in the world, is caused by those who are rich and who fail to share, ,freely with those who have need. 
To give thanks for abundance is to give thanks for resources to be shared. To give thanks for talents is to give thanks (if I really understand) for challenge and responsibility. It's true: we are the chosen people; we are the elect. But chosen for service; 
elected to get busy sharing God's creation equally with all His people. God doesn't want us to sit down to turkey dinner this Thanksgiving and choke on it. But He does want us to see that it can't be "dinner as usual.'' There are brothers and 
sisters of ours who are equally blessed {loved) by God, who do not show signs of being "blessed"--with health, food, justice, housing, cloth­ing, jobs. They are God's message to us, that the goods of His creation need to be equitably shared. They are God's invitation to us, to under­stand that we are called to give thanks for the opportunity of changing the world. 
Letterfrom Phoenix 
Jim Ladner 

Just Sltung here in my mid-town Phoenix home reflecting on the crooked trails of my recent past and the possibility (better yet, good fortune) of you s.ood people partici­pating in a simtlar adventure next year. It's hard to believe it's already the end of October and I've been teaching school for nine weeks now! Yet, as the days fly by I realize the great value of this program and the rich benefits that lie awaiting others ­you, perhaps. 
What program you might ask? And what is a born and bred Minnesotan doing in the arid desert regions of the Southwest teaching the 3R's to small, impoverished urchins? Quite can­didly, the Holy Cross Associates program is my "raison d'etre", and IS the reason for the other four I live with as well. Connected with the Holy Cross Priests and Brothers here in Phoenix (and the Holy Cross Congregation at large), my comrades and I are serving the local community in various capacities as a part ofa one year volunteer commitment to being Holy Cross Associates. 
Maura O'Malley,la language major who graduated with me from Notre Darr"ie last May, coordinates the Mealtime Assistance Program for elderly folks in area nursing homes. With this project sponsored by the Mesa Community Council, Maura has already made great headway. Her job entails recruiting, screemng and training a growing host of volunteers to feed and encourage underloved elderly on a one-to-one basis. This program strives to alleviate some of the physical and emotional malnutrition of those nurs­ing home residents who have lost the desire to ear and/ or arc unable to feed themselves. Besides her invol­vement with the elderly, Maura devotes Saturday· mornings to teach­ing third graders in an inner-city 1 
C.C.D. program. 
Mr. Matt Feeney instructs eager sixth, seventh and eighth graders in social studies, reading and music at St. Matthews, an inner-city school in Phoenix. Matt finds the demands of this teaching environment extremely challenging and keeps us all amused with his humorous tales of teaching's trials, and tribulations, and his fre­quent exclamations, "Momma, take this badge off of me.'' (Don't ask me what that means.) 
Which leaves us with one final Domer Associate (excluding myself), Mary Beth Simons. Mary Beth, an energetic take-charge type is doing a super job as a housing development assistant for the Catholic Family and Community Services' foundation for Senior Adult Living (FSAL). In this capacity she tackles a myriad of duties ranging from the requisition of government funds and planning of new elderly housing facilities to housing registration and occupancy concerns. No doubt the low income senior citizens of Arizona will be living more comfortably through her efforts. Mary Beth also spends some of her free hours conversin~ in Spanish with Mexican senior cittzens who live alone in South Phoenix. The joy her simple visits bring to them is tmmense. 
The irreplaceable ''foreign'' compo­nent to our household (the only non-N.D. person), our ~ift from the Northwest, is Jan Vming. Jan graduated from Oregon College of Education with a degree in psycho­logy which she puts to good use as a counselor and facilitator in an unwed 
mothers Iinfant  adoption  program  
sponsored  by  the  Catholic  Social  
Service  office  of  the  Diocese  of·  

Phoenix. The comfort and resolution1 whic~ she introduces into the troub-: led hves of others must be very gratifying. . Her commitment to others reaches still further as she has taken on the responsibility of working with adolescents as a Young Life leader. 
As I mentioned, I, too, am strug­gling to convey love and wisdom to my own bundles of joy, the fourth grade class at St. Mark's elementary, another inner-city school. Although the energetic youngsters und~r my tutelage have much to learn m the way of discipline and basic facts, their exuberance and willingness to participate is amazing. The dedica­tion, generosity and compassion exhibited by my fellow teachers provides me with a sterling example of what it means to serve the Lord and champion Christian values. In addition to teaching, I volunteer my services to a local Boy Scout troop in the role of Assistant Scoutmaster. This enables me to share my interest in the outdoors with others in a constructive way. 
As you can see, we as Holy Cross Associates are involved in a variety of vocations which are directed towards the needs of the young, the old, the sick and the homeless. But this lay ministry dimension (call it a volun­teer job if you have a hang up with religious jargon) is only one of numerous aspects of the Associates program. 
Shared community living and a simple lifestyle also are integral facets which foster much personal challenge and growth. In addition to sharing household chores (cooking, cleaning the bathrooms (even under the rim!), shopping, laundry, etc.,), we all support and interact with one another in other important areas such 
as  prayer,  spirituality,  issues  of  
justice and  the  ups  and  downs  of  
everyday life.  

Don Fetters, the director of our Associates group, and the other Priests and Brothers stationed here in Phoenix have offered us their spiritual /uidance and have warmly welcome us into their community. 4,nd not to b~ .ignored .are. our many moments of laughter, of desert trails and thorny cactus, of five-part har­monies and our new-found excite­ment at an unexpected rainfall. 
'I_'h~ough these vari?us compon~nts ­m1mstry, commumty and s1mple lifestyle -this one year commitment becomes more than just a group of college grads living together attempt­ing to make it on their own for the first time. As you probably can sense, the Holy Cross Associates pro~ram provides abundant oppor­tumty for personal growth as well as furnishing valuable services to those in need. Already I can appreciate the healthy perspective on life and future career commitments made to me through this involvement. My fellow AssoCiates both here in Phoenix and in the other Associate camps (Portland, Kenya and Chile) whole­heartedly echo my sentiments. 
The Ho.ly Cross Associates program is a rich, growth-filled expenence for me, one which challenges me on many levels while directing fruitful services to others. It calls me to know myself more fully, to better sense the presence of God in my life, and helps me clarify important values, goals and insights regarding my future lifestyle, relationships and work. It is a marvelous program for those not sure what they want to do and equally benefical for th~se "positive" of their deadly clca1 paths. 
Peace, 
.Jim Ladner 

If you are inter~sted in finding out more about thl· ilssociatr.s, please St()p in at the Volumeer Services office at 1.5 Laf·urnme. They'll be happy to answer any of your ques­tions. · 
The Observer Monday, November 19, 1979 ·-page 7 
CROSSING 

Patricia Fenelon· 
excellent free verse book, whether he admits it or not, solidly in the Middle West. 
Using the Renaissance sources that also mvest Bucyrus and Turns, Matthias shows an emphasis on horsemanship in Crossing, the ritual sources of all art. Turns used swordsmanship in much the same way, tracing the patterns of energy that produce human quotidian ritual. Against the counterpoint of his Columbus, Ohio J?Oems about his youth, which begm Crossing, the poet then departs home and children for the distant and the past. Quoting a letter from a student in one of the many pastiche passages he admits: "Stop drooling in self pity, I tell myself. Face lt this is your home. Why do you keep going away?" Thus he prefigures the moment when he will turn the corner in his mind and admit his American identity. 
Through Crossing, as through the whole trilogy, the theme of adventure and return IS the poet's art. In one place he admits the bifocality of art: 
''It is an old story Some man damages the lives of 
Crossing, a new book of poems by women John Matthias Faculty member in the Who would love him Dept. ofEnglish, contains the mature There are various excuses poet's assessment of his art. The One is art; '' third book in the tryptych with The return of the poet Matthias 
Bucyrus, 1971 and Turns, 1974, chronicles in the manuscript through 
Crossing studies the relation of the the titles of the poems. "In memory poet and life in America. The two of the American fifties": "USIS previous volumes used lyric, narra­lectures", "On Lake Michigan" and tive and ''found'' elements as well as "Ill; C~lumb~;~s, Ohio". Especially
literary fragments and pastiche to tellmg Is the tmage of London Bridge 
form a vigorous picture of the poet's grounded in the Arizona desert the journey to find a local identity. suggested image of the Bank of Much of this book, written in England in Berkeley adds to this to England in the house to which unite theOld World and the New one Matthias dedicates the book retraces of the poet. Besides the two sections that journey. The poet goes out from "Remainders" and "Sums" a third home, the American midwest, section, "The Stefan Batory poemsthrough England and back through and the Mihail Lermontov poems'',European history to Polish crusaders set down the Saavic heritage of his on the edge of· Western European wife and hymn the universal modern civilization. In an interview several poet-hero. But the poet defeats the years ago in Scholastic Mr. Matthias pull of the Old World glamour and in mdicated the nature of poetic quest: this he is like his ancestor· Air Vice 
"Culture" he said, "has got to be Marshall Matthias: local, immediate, participatory. This ''Who has children if for no other reason because history and a wzfe 
is a bully." Matthias sets this and is middle class for lzfe. '' 
Allover again 
Frances Regas 
When I decided to transfer to Notre have their own social sphere, but it's Dame from the University of Santa not quite ~he same, ~md they miss the Clara in California late last spring, 1 opportumty of meetmg people afford­though that the transition would be a ded. by eatine-in the dining halls. simple one. It would entail no more (Incidentally, It should be mentioned than a change of geography and that preparing meals is bothersome school colors, and perhaps an in­and encroaches on a ·student's crease in academic competition. I valualbe time.) Many transfers, was wrong; the problems transfer however, take rooms in private students tace are many. homes, and so are isolated from their 
Because every college functions peers. Because they leave the univer­differently and has a unique person­sity. to study, transfers ra'rely visit the ality, transfers have the unpleasant sonal spot on campus--the Memorial sensation that they are freshmen Library. Knowing so few people again. They leave a'familiar lifestyle prolongs that awful freshman-again and their circle of friends once more syndrome. 
to begin that difficult first year. Admittedly, a social life is expenda­Registration brings up other diffi­ble, but other benefits which should culties. Students often lose credits accompany college life are not. I am 
when changing schools--some so speaking of lecutures, class tutorials, many that they must repeat one seminars, films, concerts, plays, and semester's work. In order to fulfill the chance to participate in a wide 
range ot activities. Transfer studentsnew requirements, transfers might often cannot enjoy these. Education­have to enroll in first year classes. 
al and cultural events, and organiza­This is particularly detrimental for tional meetings--including those ofstudents planning to apply to gradu­the Off-Campus Council--are invaria­ate schools which are not impressed bly scheduled during the evening. Itby juniors taking freshman level is inconvenient and time consumingcourses. 
for students who live away fromThe greatest problems transfer stu­school to return to campus at night,dents must endure can be summed 
up in three infamous words: living and it is impossible for some of them. off-campus. It is easy to imagine how Recent editorials and articles in the their social life suffers--if it exists at Observer illustrate that assault and ~II. Students are obviously cut off rape are nor unknown in South Bend· from all dorm functions and they are transfers--especially females-~ unable to establish the close friend­shouldn't walk or ride bicycles alone ships that come from actually living after dark. The presence of Security · With a group of people. Of course. officers which deters attack, and the those students that rent a ar~.nenrs escort service thev provide is no help 
Pacino S11 •••Justice'': Guilty 
Christopher Stewart 
In the world of film, there are actors, and then there are the actors. As I glance over the past decade searching for Ia creme de Ia creme, four names tower over the rest: Hoffman, Nicholson, DeNiro. And Pacino, the reigning king. AI Pacino. Ya know, da guy frum da Sout Bronkx. Da Bronkx, New. Yawk, for fete's sake. 
I love A Pacino. But I loathed his latest movie, " ...AndJustice For All." The movie is so utterly pretentious and banal that I wonder how director Norman]ewison could think that any self-res,Pecting film connoiseur could do anything but chortle hilariously at this judicial Sesame Street. It's the most contrived movie I've seen since A Star Is Born. 
Pacino is the consummate actor, chiefly because he has proven time and again that he performs marvelously both on stage and in film. I've seen all but two of his films, and cau~ht him two years ago on Broadway in the excellent production, ''The Baste Training ofPavlo Hummel.'' Except for the fact that he spits prodigiously, Pacino's electrifying stage presence places him in the legacy of the rough edged, hard-assed antihero, a role-type pioneered by James Dean and Marlon Brando. 
Pacino communicates the passionate rage, emotional trauma, unbridled frustration and smoldering spiritual chaos of modern existential man better than anyone else. Enticed by roles emphasizing human ambiguity ("Serpico, Bobby Deerfield"), somber realism (The Godfather, I & II, Scarecrow) and heartrending delirium (Dog Day Afternoon) Pacino's penchant for the bizarre, warped and alienated have propelled him to the zenith of his profession. This is manifest by his four Oscar nominations, and possible fifth for" ...!Inc! Justice Fot All." 
In addition, Pacino's sense of comic relief--those incredibly beguiling eyes, an UJ?turned lip when he's on the make, or some primordial quip in the face of immment disaster--is egual to Nicholson's devilish winks, Hoffman's innocent wonderboy looks, Dreytuss' teddy bear chutzpah and Burt Reynolds' startling deadpan humor. 
Unfortunately, all these talents couldn't rescue " ... And Justice For All" from the oblivion it so justly deserves. 
The movie is set in Baltimore, Maryland, home of Spiro Agnew. Baltimore is cast as an amoral cauldron of corruption, with particular emphasis on its criminal justice system. 
Arthur Kirkland (Pacino) plays the role of a legal Sir Galahad, saving a motley crew of transvestites, bad drivers, dope addicts, and human flotsam from the pernicious ambience of prison. Kirkland is incorruptible, except when it comes to some sexual gymnastics with a feline beauty on the city's Ethics Commission. Their ostensible function is to investigate the moral fiber of the city's legal establishment, which is negligible. Kirkland responded to the inquiries of this committee with one of the film's more poignant comments: "Theoretically, what this committee is doing is commendable. In reality, it sucks." Profound, huh? There's more. 
Judge Fleming Oohn Forsythe) is an autocrat in the mold of the Ayatollah, whose sadomasochistic proclivities eventually embroil him in a rape charge. Or Judge Rayford Qack Warden), a throwback to the good ole, shoot 'em up days ofWyatt Earp. This Wild Bill Hickock of the courtroom wears a holster, with fully loaded pistol, to court; eats his lunch on a ledge 10 stories high; contemplates suicide daily during meditative stints, with shotgun in his mouth, sitting on the magtstrate's commode; flies helicopters so that they'll crash in Balumore Bay; and doesn't sleep with his wife. 
Kirk land's grandfather (Lee Strassberg) is a senile old man, holed up in a nursing home. Jewison's efforts at winning our hearts prove mawkish. Every time Pacino visits Grandpa, Grandpa forgets that he's a lawyer. Pacino gets frustrated, telling him "Grandpa, I am a lawyer. For 12 years." I was hoping Pacino would punch the old codger. 
Jewison's mangy caricatures demeaned the purposeof the film, which intended to enlighten us to the travesty of the Amencan judicial process. He could have done this just as effectively without resorting to dramatic overkill and tendentious characterizations. 
There are some excellent moments in the film, highlighting Pacino's brilliance with Jewison's intent. A black transvestite, accused of robbery, ends up mistakenly sentenced to jail because of his lawyer's (Kirkland's assistant) incompetence. The defendant's face is fraught with terror at the thought of jail, and for good reason. A half hour after he enters jail, he commits suicide. Pacino responds to this outrage by attacking his assistant's car, smashing his windshield with his suitcase. In a movingly beautiful scene, Pacino withers under the oppressive burden of injustice ,crying out to a deaf world: "Don't you care? Doesn't anybody care?" 
One classic scene involved Judge Rayford asking a policeman about a suspect arrested on public nuisance charges. The cop told the judge the defendant had been verbally abusive, using much profanity. The judge insisted on knowing the connection between the client's lack of etiquette and diabetes. The suspect's response to the judge's ignorance is worth 1/z the price of the movie. 
Although " ... And Justice For All" is not one of Al Pacino's more memorable efforts, the catcalls and derisive reviews about him are largely inflated. The film is not ''The China Syndrome'' of the Iesal system, but it could have been. Many people will enjoy this film, and be disturbed by it, as were the two friends who accompanied me to see it. 
After it was over, I asked them (both seniors) if they were ready to rush into law school, prepared and aware of the many vicissitudes and disappointments which await them. 
They looked at me and frowned. Their uneasiness is certainly justified. 
If the search for justice is as impossible as this film portrays, maybe my friends felt the nausea we all should feel. I did not feel it so starkly, since I tend to believe that's how it's been all along. 
It's called the real world. 
outsicle the U niversitv. Hence. rradition, the sptrit, the fun. School transfers are denied ·the benefits is just routine business. This sense which distinguish the valuable of exclusion brings with it a sense of college experience from mere book non-permanence which leads to an­learning. other transfer student syndrome: the 
One last major problem for transfer desire to transfer again and again. students is that they feel they don't Living off-campus, then. com­belong. They spend hours on campus pounds the problems of adjustment
daily, bur they are only regular that students face when they change 
visitors. They attend classes, but schools. The responsibility for remain outsiders. They don't experi­resolving the troubles of transfers ence the special quality about living rests with the University which 
on-campus, right in the center of ~hould guarantee residence to all new things--the feeling of being part of a students. 
I &UP!t4W43....~···•ii , 

r 
---~---­
Presents, 

THE ALBUM HOUR Monday thru Thursday nite from 12-1 
Featuring a new release album played i~ i~s enrire'ry. Brought ro you by Camelot Mustc m the Univ. Park Mall, where every 7.99 L.P. featured is offered ro N.D. and S.M.C. for 5.99 with I.D. And each Wednesday nite a new album is · away, all from Camelot Music. 

North 

Yt mle east of Notre D•• Edison at Ind. 23 (219) 272-7222 
. , Today 
~ ~k··:;~=·:::~d ~ 
Southland Plaza 2041 E. Ireland at.lraawood (219)..29-1 ..1Gql 
ND halls sponsor fewer parties due to party room regulations 
through a more formal process made preparations for it last
by Phyllis Washington 
StaffReporter 
Many hall presidents have oberved that fewer hall-parties have bee·n given this year since the new party guidelines were issued by Father Van Wolvlear. 
In the past, students were allowed to hold section parties and private parties in their rooms and hallways. However, section parties are now outla:w­ed and students must go 
.......................hill............., 
!rf2tJcpQantg and] 
-~ CCfQowettg 
Campus Delivery in LaFortune 
Ju.~t COiaQ 2244241 
CReguQa~ bol!ing hat!t~ 
-~?.~~~~.~,tg;0,!.~~~.......~ 
' 'there are a lot less parties now because the guidelines m.ade it too formal' ' 
.c Cont,nental R<>staurant System~ .1979 

to have parties. 

According to the new party rules, a room within the hall must be designated as the ''party room'', and the section and hall parties are to be held in that room. 
l\(ost dormitories require stud­ents to reserve the room through the rector a week in advance. At this time, a deposit is usually put down for the room in case of damages. Deposits vary from dormitory to dormitory. Halls can set their own deposit fees and they rapge from $10.00 to $35.00, and some require a rental fee for the room in addition to the deposit. Because many of the parties have been spontaneous in rhe past, students generally don't plan that far in advance, 
and therefore they give up the 
The most delicious, most sumptuous dinners our new menu could offer ... 
We have hall parties and sec­
Luscious entrees come complete with salad, vegetable, bread, and your 
tion parties down there.'' 

choke of baked potato, rice, or french fries ... Our modest prices complete 
One reason for such prolific
this tasty picture . . . So add a little spice to your dining. 
use of Alumni's party room 
idea of having a party. 

Another rule that many hall presidents believe may have something to do with the de­crease in the number of hall parties is the guest list policy. The party rooms tan hold a limited number of people as designated by the fire marshall. 
Every party must have a guest list that cannot exceed the number of people allowed in the room. The number of guests also varies from dorm to dorm. Some can only hold 50 to 75 people, while others can hold as many as 200. As a result, students must now make out a guest list and are required to adhere to it. 
There are other rules that may be causing a decrease in the number of hall parties. In addition to having to reserve the room a week in advance, providing a guest list for a limited number of people and paying a deposit and a rental fee, some dorms must have students at the parties to act as bouncers to make sure that guidelines are followed. The parties must never become public, and kegs may not be used. There has not been much protest among the students toward the new policies, but most presidents have noticed the change. 
If party rooms are used fre­quently, it is likely to be in a male dorm. According to Madigan, AlumiHallpresident, "Our party room is used at least one time every weekend. 
could be that the hall residents 


. Nicaragua
Those tasty creations that11 tickle your palate 
and tantallze·your pocketbook ...Imagine the sirloin supreme, top sirloin covered IIIith Monterey Jack cheese, sauteed mushrooms, 
[continued from page 31 

onions and peppers ...Or juicy beef brochette, charbroiled sirloin bits marinated in a delicious 
Christian people." He noted 
burgundy sauce ...There's even a fresh catch 
the orgamzatton of the rebels
of the day for seafood lovers ...They must be tried to be believed ... 
on the grass roots level and recognized the role of the church in setting up the original infrastructure, or foundation, 
52885 U.S. 31 North 
on which the rebels built.

South Bend, 272-5478 
Sister Campbell noted how the Scripture really came alive Phone for reservations 
to help the Nicara~uan people in the1r reconstruction effort -­those who had lost everything as well as those who had had 
DlflfER FOR $5.45 
When you're really hungry, order a complete dinner with all the trimmings at a price that tastes as good as the food ...There's succulent prime rib, fresh ftsh, and saucy terlyaki chicken ... It's more than a mouthful ... 
Sunday 

Noon to 4p.m. 
Mon. thru. Thurs. 
5p.m. to 7p.m. 

year. "The thing that helped 
us was that we set up our party 
room last year and we sort of 
set up some guidelines when 
the issue was first being discus­
sed. So, we kind of eased into it 
this year because we were 
somewhat used to it,'' Madigan 
said. 

Cavanaugh also uses their 
party room on the average of 
once a week. Cavanaugh uses 
the study lounge as the party 
room and the Hall President, 
Mike Tuohy, said, ''The facili­
ties aren't all that great but the 
University is in the process of 
giving us some things.'' · Even 
though the Cavanaugh party 
room is used frequently, 
''Generally people would rather have section parties because .they're easier to run, easier to 
' \ ... 

control, and easier to plan,'' 
Tuohy added. 

In the women's dormitories, the rooms are mostly used for . small private parties, section 
happy hours and dinner parties. Most of the female dorms don't generally use the room for larger parties because of all thf' advance plans that have to be made. Some hall presidents of the female dorms have also noticed a change in the number of parties given. Dale Robin­son, Breen-Philips Hall presi­dent, said, ''Our party room is used just about every week but .for a small number of people." Robinson noted that HP has had a lot of problems, as some other dorms did, with the study lounge being designated as the party room. "Because it has a study lounge atmosphere," she said, "you can walk in and say 
'Oh! It's time to study.' " 

Farley's President Madeline 
Darrouzet, agreed that people 
are having less parties in 
Farley. 

Some students are taking ad­
vantage of the party rooms ~nd 
their guidelines by scheduhng 
parties and reserving rooms 
and there are still private 
parties held on the weekends in 
private rooms. 

"The general consensus is 
that there are a lot less parties 
now because the guidelines 
made it too formal," Jim Ingol­
ia, Holy Cross Hall _fJresident 
said. "People go off-campus 
now and social interaction is 
less." 

"Perhaps the situation will 
change and party rooms will be 
used more when people become 
more aquainted with the rules 
and .used to the process,'' 
Ingolta added. 

nothing to lose. She stated that the National Guard prisoners were not treated with terrible vengeance, even after all they had put the people through. She cited the tremendous spirit of the independent people and their hope for a new society. 
As Father Hinde sees it, they are ''not to mourn those who died but to carry their seeds in their hearts.'' 
The talk was sponsored by the Center for Experiential Learning and cadena. 

The Observer .Monday, November 19, 1979 :page 9 

Seniors take a breather outside ofGoose's Nest dun'ng this year's Death March fphoto by Dave Rumbach ] ·. ­
Air Force plane transporting radioactive materials explodes 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -A cargo plane carrying explosives and ' a minute guantity'' of low-level radioactiVe material blew up in flight yesterday then crashed in a thmly populated area, officials said. All three crewmen were killed. 
One witness said he thought he was watching a meteor fall wheh he saw a red flash in the sky. 
The four-engine Trans-Amer­ican Airlines turboprop crashed in a sagebrush area of the Salt Lake Valley about 5 A.M., 10 minutes after taking off from Hill Air Force Base in Ogden, Utah, officials said. 
Originally, the Air Force had said there were 1, 500 pounds of explosives aboard. 
Sheriffs deputies who arrived at the scene moments later said parts of the plane were scatter­ed over a three-block area. Salt Lake County Sheriff Pete Hay­ward said the cockpit remained "largely intact" but burned for several hours after the crash. Sheriffs deputies at the scene said there were no survivors. 
The civilian Lockheed Electra L-188, carrying cargo for the Air Force, was bound for W ellis Air Force Base in Las Vegas, Nev. 
Deah Curry, an Air Force spokeswoman, said the cargo included ''a minute quantity of thorium,'' which gives off so little radiation that no label is required on containers. She said the thorium was used to make an aircraft gearbox that was being carried on the plane. 
Thorium is often used to coat watch faces, and Ms. Curry said the cargo was thought to pose "no more danger than a watch dial. " 
Geiger counter checks of the area showed no radiation leak­age, although the container carrying the thorium could not be found immediately, said Larry Anderson, director of radiation and occupational health for Utah. 
About 50 deputies, firefighters and Air' Force personnel who worked close to the smoldering wreckage were asked to under­go tests to check for possible contamination, said sheriffs Lt. John Llewellyn, but the tests were abandoned after 3 7 people were safely screened. 
Witnesses reported hearing two explosions and seeing a bright flash and then a fireball that separated and fell to the ground. 
Rick Slakoff, a Transamerican spokesman in San Francisco, 

' ' 
identified the dead crew as the pilot, Marvin Dick, 46, of Ogden, the pilot; first officer Harry Gardiner, 35, of Layton, and flight engineer J ac John­stone, 54, of Warner Robbins Air Force Base in GEorgia. 
Alfred McCallister, a Federal Aviation Administration official in Salt Lake City, said Dick had radioed the plane was having electrical problems and was unable to maintain altitude. The plane was flying at about 
11,000 to 12,000 feet at the
time, the FAA said. ri 
Kentucky basketball tix available 
Approximately 250 tickets for the Notre Dame--Kentucky basketball game will go on sale the week after Thanksgiving. . The game is to be played at ' Freedom Hall in Louisville on Saturday, December 29. Con­sult the Observer for exact dat~ and time of sale. 
R.A. candidates holdmeeting 
by Katie Gzl/igan 

Interest meetings for prospec­tive St. Mary's Residence Advi­sors during the 1980-81 school year will be held November 26 and 27, from 6-7 p.m. in the Saint Mary's clubhouse. Soph­omores and juniors (excluding Medical Technician and Nur­sing majors) are encouraged to apply. Attendance at at least one of the meetings IS required, as the application forms will only be distributed at these times. 
The application, three recom­mendations, and a waiver form, which complete the initial phase, must be submitted to the Department of Residence Life Office in room 164 of LeMans by ] anuary 18. The three recommendations are to be written by a staff, faculty, or 
administration member, a pres­
ent RA, and a employer·or 
personal friend. 

Non-resident or off-campus students may substitute the RA' s recommendation with another St. Mary's faculty, or personal recommendation if they wish. Those whose files remain incomplete as of the ] anuary deadlme are automati­cally withdrawn from the pro­gram. 
Interested students must sign up with the Residence Director for a personal interview by ] anuary 16. The interviews, which begin on]anuary 20 and are scheduled through the first week of April, are quite impor­tant. According to Mary ;ane Silvia, the co-ordinator o RA recruitement, ''The interviews are for a job, not a joke". 
Two optional workshops have been set up to help applicants prepare for the interview. 

Silvia hopes these meetings, new this year, will give the prospective RA1s an idea of what to expect in the actual interview as well as to impress 
1bpon them the weight that it will carry. The sessions, starting at 6t30 pm in the Student Affairs Conference Room, will be on December 4 and 5. 
Along with the personal inter­views, there are also a series of apprenticeship group meetings 
which will meet twice for two to 
three . hours. The groups, I compnsed of six to eight appli-1 cants and two current RA's, discuss the responsibilities of I residence advisors. Applicants I 
must also go through individual 1 
IR.nAt~rviews, given by two other1
s. Saint Mary's students with I ques~ions concerning the RA 1 
meeuns.s  may  contact  Mary  ·.  
Jane Silvia (4918),  or  Nu~. I  
Nugent {4508).  · 1  

• • • Hostages 
[continuedfrompage2] 
Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, now in a New York hospital being treated for cancer. 
. d' h

] ourna11sts atten mg t e new 
conference reported the students appeared to be in disagreement about when how how many hostages would be 
freed but on Saturday, Iran's 
NBC-TV interviewed Khomeini in Qom, 100 miles s<;>uth of Tehran, and quoted htm as saying the remaining, hostages will be safeas long as
h . . . · 
t ere was a possibility the deposed shah woul<;J be returned to Iran, but If the United States does not send ~he 
shah back to Iran, mos~ of the 
spiritual leader, Ayatollah : hos~ages would be ~ned and 
Ruhollah Khomeini ordered pumshed under lslam1c law. the release of the blacks and . Peter ] ennings of ABC-TV women among the 60 to 62 interviewed Khomeini, and Americans and ei~ht non-quoted him as saying "the only Americans held since the condition is to return the embassy was seized Nov. 4. shah ... " 
THE OBSERVER OFFICE WILL CLOSE FOR TH.UKSGIVIIfG BREAK 
AT 4::30 pm Olf TUESDAY lfOV. 20 AlfD REOPIIf AT 9:30 am Olf 
IIOifDAY lfOV.26 
FIRST ISSUE AftiR BREAK 
WILL BE TUES. lfOV. 2'1 


~===~;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;:;;;:;:;~~=~=~=:::::::::"1 
AIESEC-NOTRE DAME 
Presents: 
"An ·-~Ev~J!ing
·~ ·.r,.-· •. -~. 

With John Wooden" 
Former UCLA Basketball coach will speak on business motivation. 
Dinner, December 9, 1979 6:00 p.n1. Monogram Room/Notre Dame ACC Ti<•kets . : . $15 per plate 

.\IESEf...~OTR•: D . .\1\IE is part of an intt"mational man­ap;t>mt"nt dt•vt>lopmt"nl p;reup whi.th i~ lhr larp;f'tlt totally 11tu~t>nt run. non-profit., PO~polltk•al rorporation in tilt' "·orld. ltM fuiK'tion is to sponMOr a l't't'ipi'O('al t"nhanp;t" prop;ram with studt"nt intt"rnM from 56 difft"n-nt f"Ountriett. 
• • ·• ·• • • • • • • • · • • • • • • • • • • 
"'An Even._ l''lth John l'ooden .. MaU to: AIESECNOTRE DAME DI''\ER 
P.O. Boll 127 , . 
'otre Dame. IN. 16536 N 
' ame ~---• "· ---:. .. • •-• ---------------... -"'-...... -• Addre~~ ----------------------Zip ..-'--.-·-··•*· 
City/Slate-------------------Phone--------­
. . . . . . . 
Number of llekt"lli -,...,.,-.. AlllOURl enelosed 8 .; ,... ,... .·.. 
. I' .· . 
at 15 1»8'· penon 

. . . Make r~• payablt-to AIESECNOTRE D,(ME. . . 
• I I 
1 
1 
I
I 
I 
I 
1 
I 

~-----------------------------------~••••·•••M~~·•••••·•··-·~•• 
1'."· 
llilnesbury 
G(}O{J &VENING. TOOAY TH& 5MAU TaA/N OF ROS&­IA!ATCR, !NOlANA, WAS HIT 
~ SUOIJffl/..Y BY A THREE­~ NliTIUORI< MW/A &VENT. " ITtttt/S 7JI!3 MJRST M/3 

/J!A &VCNT IN RE:C£NT L--....c--1 
MtMJRY. 
/ 
Molarity 



TH&R/3 HAO BCCN NO IAJ4RN­IN6. IAJH/3N 7H& 77NY f..(}{AL.. R£Pt/BUCAN CAUCUS CfJN­mJEO lA5T NIGHT RJt< ITS PRt5/t:JI.3NTIA/.. 5TRAW fU/.., a.t/..Y 1../GHT COV­&RAG/3 HAIJ 8I3&N -'"=--...=='=I 
CASTEl?.• 
~ 

WAIT, IF ya.; WER£ REAl.L.Y IN7£RE.Sf£D IN SERVING 

The Daily Crossword 
All Rights Reserved 

by Garry Trudeau 

by Michael Molinelli 

ACROSS  29  French  
1  Mail  composer  
5 Alight  33  Excellent  
9  Trouba­ tennis  
dour's love  serve  
song  34  Storm: Fr.  
13  Indian  35  -nothing  
14  Knight's  (gambling  
weapon  phrase)  
15  Kiwi  36  "I'm Al- 
ancestors  ways-"  
16  What Ponce  39  Even  
de Leon  40  Volcano  
sought  in Italy  
19  Herald  41  Recent:  
20  Coarse  pref.  
21  Explosive  42  "Martin -"  
22  Irregular  (London  
disk  tale)  
23  Masculine  43  Collective  
26  Court name  farm  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


44 Sea bird 23 Twin 45 Culbertson crystal 
of bridge 24 Pained 46 Give-try 25 Furlough 48 "-Dallas" 27 Caprice 52 Baseball 28 Heron 
league 29 Attorney's 57 "Did Your degree 
Mother-?" 30 Solo 59 Skip 31 Diminish 60 Water pipes 32 Welles of 61 Collection· films 
of myths 34 OPEC 62 Soaks export 63 Let it 35 Memorable 
stand saying 64 Plate 37 Lawmaker: abbr. 
DOWN 38 Geological 1 Lounge outcrops 2 Type of 43 Startles 
collar 44 Followed 3 Name word 45 Sprite 4 Mean 47 Three, in 5 Not of the Milan 
clergy 48 Barge 6 English 49 Large book 
queen 50 Exude 7 Sgt., e.g. 51 "-Fall in 8 Overcome Love" 9 God of love 52 Friend, in 
10 Clumsy one Cannes 11 Tub event 53 Coin 12 Deadly pale 54 Muslim 14 Light item judge 17 Large cask 55 No its,­18 Sweet or buts 
potato 56 State: abbr. 22 Originate 58 Grain 
California 
resumes 
gas plan 

(AP) -As California returns to limited odd-even gasoline sales to show "solidarity" with President Carter's handling of the Iranian crisis, gov~rnors of other states are reacung more cautiously to the White House call for fuel conservation. 
California Gov. Edmund G. 
Brown Jr. ordered odd-even 
sales to meet expected oil 
shortages stemming from the 
U.S.-I raman confron ration. 

The new plan, virtually 
identical to that imposed this 
past summer, took effect in San 
Francisco, Los Angeles and 13 
urban counties at 12:01 a.m. 
today. It becomes effective 
statewide Dec. 3. 

California's previous odd­
even plan, which lasted four 
months, was abandoned 
primarily because it was widely 
ignored by both motorists and 
police, who were supposed to 
enforce it. 

On Friday, Carter and Energy Secretary Charles Duncan met at the White House with 39 governors, asking them to take immediate action to curb oil demand, suggesting such tactics as odd-even gasoline sales and minimum purchase rules. 
During last summer's fuel shortage, 11 states and the District of Col"umbia had ordered odd-even sales of gasoline. 
Duncan also urged that states strictly enforce the 55 mph speed limit and cut energy use in their own governments by 5 percent overall, including a 10 percent reduction in gasoline consumed by state-owned vehicles. 
The requests are "reasonable," said Iowa Gov. Robert Ray. ''It is my feeling that the people are angry, they are mad, and they aren't going to let Iran dictate what our economy is going to be.'' 
Ray said Iowans would be asked to help by "seriously observing the 55 mph speed limit, more carpools and use of mass transit -the things people ~an do . with~~t very much mconventence. 
But Ray, echoing the comments of many governors, said he felt his state did not need to impose odd-even sales or minimum purchase require­merits. 
"Odd-even has not been shown to have done any good," said Minnesota Gov. AI Quie. 
RINK RIVERSIDE 
PRINTING, INC. 
209 EAST COLFAX AVE. I SOUTH BEND, IN 46617 
• FINE LITHOGRAPHY 
• COMMERCIAL PRINTING 
• INSTANT PRINTING Phone 232-7935 · See us about your resume 
::D 
z 
rn 
r­
" 
::D 
18461 
. 
. 
...~ 

It's worth passing many sho 

ND f 
N
* 


ST.RD. 23 State Road 23 277-1875 
~ # t". • r ~
.... ......... .. ....~·. 


~------~ 
---------.,....--­
-· 
·--· ­

The Observer -Sports Monday, November 19, 1979-page 11 
l --; I 


------------~~-----­
Monday, November 19, 1979 -page 12
SRorts 
ND mistakes help Clemson 
to 16-10 win, bowl bid 
by Mark Perry "I thought that the penalty 
Sports Editor that nulified Lisch's touchdown 
turned the momemtum 
Mistakes can change the completely around,'' Devine 
course of any football game, commented. "We should have 
and Saturday's contest between gone into the lockerroom with a 
Notre Dame and Clemson was a 17-point lead." 
prime example. Devine hinted that he was 
For one half of football, the less than pleased with ~he 
Irish dominated the Tigers like officiating. "If I start talktng 
no other team has this year. about the officiating, I might 
The Notre Dame offense gained say too much. I was 
295 yards in the first half, more disappointed in the officiating 
than Clemson has given up in as well as the ball game." 
one game this season. The The Irish came away with no 
Notre Dame defense held the score on the drive, as Male 
top rushing team in the Atlantic missed a 33-yard attempt, and 
Coast Conference to a mere 92 gave Clemson the incentive 
yards on the ground. And most they needed to come back. 
importantly, the Irish led 10-0. ''There were a lot of big plays 
But a combination of in the game--with most of the~ 
penalties, fumbles, and coming in the first half,'' satd 
interceptions helped turn the Clemson coach Danny Ford. 
tide for a fired-up Clemson ''The missed field goals by 
squad, and the Ttgers went Notre Dame (Male had missed 
home with a 16-10 victory and on a 46-yard try earlier) were 
vision of the Peach Bowl especially important. We were 
dancing in their heads. lucky to be only down by ten at 
There will be no Christmas the half.·· 
~,resent for the Irish and coach "Notre Dame showed us 
m Devine this year, as they some big-time plays in the first 
ve elected to make their half,'' added Clemson quarter­
ular season finale against back Billy Lott, "Our defense 
tmi of Tokyo the final game isn't used ro having the ball 
he year. thrown at us like that." 
·we had a bowl offer, win or For Lotr and his teammates, 
.e,'' Devine admitted after halftime was a time for 
.e game. "But I didn't want to reflection. "I could see in the 
go to a bowl game just for the eyes of our defensive unit they sake of going. I doubt we would were saying to themselves, have gone to a bowl even if we 'Man we're getting embarassed had won today.'' out there."' 
For Devine, it was a heart­"At halftime coach Ford cold breakins loss. ''I'm more us that this was a chance in a disappomted about this game lifetime for us. It was a chance than any I've been involved to beat a ream with a great in." he reflected. ''I've never tradition.'' been lower in my life." And when the Irish decided 
h appeared that the day to play follow-the-bouncing-ball would be a happy one for the in the second half, the Tigers Irish and the seniors who were were quick to take advantage of playing their last game in front their chances. of a home crowd. A 42-yard The first break came on a field goal by Chuck Male and Clemson punt, as Ty Dickerson Vagas Ferguson's two-yard fumbled the ball at his own 20, touchdown run had given Notre and Anthony Rose recovered Dame a 10-0 midway through for the Tigers. Clemson was the second quarter. halted at the four, and Obed 
And the Irish appeared to be Ariri carne on to hit a 23-yard 
driving for another score as field goal. . Rusty Lisch dropped back to Ariri hit another field goal pass from the Clemson 11-yard after a 42-yard drive by line. Finding no receivers Clemson to the Notre Dame 25, open, Lisch scrambled toward aided by two personal foul the goal line, and scored an penalties against the Irish. apparent touchdown on a diving On Notre Dame's first play effort. A holding call brought following the kickoff, Ferguson the ball back to the 25. [continued on page 11] 
Big Ten sends 4 teams bowling 
[AP]-Overwhelm 'em wi~hl 
numbers--that's what the Btg 
Ten plans to do this year in the 
post-season football games. 
Having won only twice in 10 
post season games the la~t fo~:~r 
years and only once 1n SIX 
games the last two seasons, the 
Big Ten will ship f~ur. teams 
into the bowl wars thts urne. 
Ohio State, undefeated and 
ranked second, will represent 
the conference in the big one-­
the Rose Bowl. Michigan will 
go to the Gator Bowl, Purdue to 
the Bluebonnet and Indiana to 
the Holiday Bowl in SanDiego. 
"We're going the right way," said Ohio Stare Coach Earle Bruce, the successor to Woody Hayes who guided the Buck­eyes to and undefeated season., 
''The right way'' was by, defeating Michigan 18-15 Sa-1 turday. Even if the Buckeyes had lost, they would havel 
gained the Rose Bowl bid 
because Purdue defeated In­
diana 37-21. Had Michigan 
beat Ohio Stare, it would have 
created a three-way tie, but the 
Buckeyes would have been give 
given the nod because of their 
superior overall record. 

Not unexpectedly, Ohio State 
won because of another col­
lapse in Michigan's kicking 
game. Jim Laughlin blocked a 
punt early in the fourth quarter 
and Todd Bell scooped it up and 
ran 18 yards for the winning 
touchdown. 

Michigan's other two losses resulted from the Wolverines' poor kicking game and defen­sive back Mike Jolly said "We are three plays away from being No. 2 in the nation.'' 
Michigan's other two losses resulted from a blocked field goal attempt against Notre Dame and another blocked punt) against Purdue. 
Purdue's victory over Indiana was the fifth straight for the Boilermakers and sent them to Bluebonnet although they had hoped for the Cotton or Orange Bowls. 
"We were very happy to accept the bowl bid,'' said Purdue Athletic Director George King. "We were in there until the last minute with both the Cotton and Orange Bowl people." 
The emotion of Indiana's loss took a quick reversal in the locker room when it was an­nounced the Hoosiers were going to the Holiday Bowl. 
"I've never seen a group of young men change from tears to cheers so rapidly," said Coach Lee Corso. "We are grateful for the opportunity to represent Indiana University and the Big Ten in this game." 


agas by Clemson's defense, broke his own season mark with 110 agamst the Tigers. The senior co-captain now has 1,260 yards [photo by Ken Berumen] 
Ailing icers salvage split with MSU 
by Mark Perry people up front tonight than Meredith's shot from the right 
Sports Editor last night,'' Smith said after point ten minutes into t~e 
and Saturday's win. "They never secqnd period. 
Gary Grassey had a chance to work together Six minutes later Meredith 
Sports Writer in those units before. It took scored rrobably the strangest 
one game getting used to each goal o his career, a:.; he 
other's moves." attempted a pass from behind 
Forced into several lineup The powerplay was the big key the net. The puck hit a changes due to a rash of to the win, as the Irish cltcked confused Mazzolini in the el­injuries and illnesses, the Notre on four of seven chances. ''The bow. and crossed the goal line Dame hockey team' finally odd thing was that the power­for a 3-1 Irish lead. found the right combinations on play unit was working together Goals by State's Craig Lakian Saturday night, as they defeat­for the first time," Smith and Frank Finn tied the score ed the Michigan State Spar­added. after two periods, but Notre tans, 5-3, before a crowd ofover "We seem to be a little on the Dame's powerplay connected 3,700 at the ACC. snake-bitten side lately, but we twice in the final sranza to give 
The win salvaged a series split got goals tonight that we didn't the Irish the win. for the Irish, who lost Friday's get last night.'' Jeff Brownschiedle scored the contest, 5-4. Notre Dame's After Aaron Rucks scored on eventual game-winner on a fine record stands at 4-4 in the breakaway steal to give the individual effort. Taking the WCHA, and 5-4 overall. Spartans an early 1-0 lead, Irish puck into the Spartan zone, he 
''] was wondering if we had a captain Greg Meredith connect­skated past the goal and then better team off the ice than ed on the first of his two passed to Jeff Logan at the on," commented Irish coach unusual goals. right point. Logan passed back Lefty Smith, who had to juggle Wirh the Irish on the power­to Brownschiedle on the left his lineup card because .of play, Meredith took a pass from side. and the defenseman 's seyeral Irish players wh.o mis­Tom Michalek behind the net, slapper beat Mazzolini. sed all or part of the senes. and tried to stuff the puck past Logan also set up the final 
· Dave Poulin (in the hospital Spartan goaltender Mark Maz­Irish goal, as freshman Kurt 
with severe viral infection), Ted zolini. The first two tries failed, Bjork tapped in Logan's re­
Welrzin (shoulder injury), Jo~n but Meredith persisted and bound for his first goal in a 
Friedmann (strained knee), J1m finally shoved the puck between Notre Dame uniform. 
Brown (separated shoulcfer), Mazzolini's pads and into the Freshman Bob McNamara was 
and Dave Laurion (flu bug) net. outstanding in the nets for 
were all on the Irish injured list Michalek gave the Irish the Notre Dame, corning up with 26~ 
this weekend. lead on their next powerplay 
"We had more experienced 





