
• • • REO review -page 7 

VOL. XIV, NO.3 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, AUGUST, 30, 1979 
Goundclearing for new residence hall to begin 
by Manbeth Moran · Staf!Reporter 
Groundclearing of the site for the proposed new residence hall will 
begin on Monday, September O'Meara, University provost. The contractor will begin exca­vation of the ~round on which the new dormitory will be built although the final bid for the structure has not been accept­ed. This action will facilitate the completion of the dorm by the target date, September 1980. 
Work on the actual structure may be started as soon as a bid is accepted by the university. 
Bids will be out in mid-Septem­ber and O'Meara is hopeful that work might be started by mid-October. 
"Ifthe weather is not too se­vere it should be suitable for occupation by next Septem­ber," he said. 
The new dorm is part of a two structure modular plan that will eventuallly house an additional five hundred students. Accord­ing to O'Meara a major 
Wall resiKns 
•
as secu1r~v director 
byJohn FeTToli StaffReporter 
The resignation of]oseph W. Wall, Notre Dame director of security, has put pressure on members of the administration and student government to find a suitable replacement. 
Wall recently decided to resign because his wife, who lives and works in Richton Park, II., has been unable to find adequate employment in her field in the South Bend area. 
Interviewers to find Wall's re­placement include ] ames Roe­mer, dean of students, Bill Roche , student body presi­dent, Bill Vita, student body vice-president, and Wall him­self. After receiving twenty responses to an advertisement placed in various newspapers, the committee has trimmed the list to three applicants. 
"We're looking for someone with the experience, the matur­ity, the savvy, and the educa· tion to accomplish the job," Roemer remarked. Roemer, who will make the final decision on the matter, emphasized that the new director must have the ability to deal with students. ''The security director encoun­ters hundreds of students every day,'' explained Roemer, ''and it's terribly important for him to be compatible with the student body." Roemer stated that he was look­ilng for a director who can train and supervise people work well with local law enforcement agencies, and handle "serious 
[continued on page 3] 
7, according to Dr. Timothy consideration in the expansion of housing facilities is due to an anticipated increase in the en­rollment ofwomen. "My guess would be that women would inhabit the dorm in Septem­ber," he said. The dorm will house two hundred and fifty students in doubles, singles and quads. Plans of the structure showed a large amount of social space as well as an adequate amount of study space. . 
Optimum enrollment for the university is illustrated in the report of the Committee on University Priorities (COUP), "that the undergraduate enroll­

ment be stabilized at 6600. That the proportion of women and of members of disadvantaged eth­nic groups at the University be increased." O'Meara stated that these goals are of a philosophical but also a prag­matic type. 
He interprets the report to mean that the university will eventually reach a maximum enrolhpent and stop there. He stated that Notre Dame will never grow into a sprawling school ot 20,000 or more as thrs is not in keeping with either the tradition or the philosophy of education at this school. 
The increased enrollment of women would occur over ~verc al years and not all at once. O'Meara also said he believes that the second structure of the new housing project will not be completed by September 1980. The new dorm wdl have a small chapel and there are plans to build another near the site after · both structures are com­pleted. 
by Rosemary Mills Editor-in-Chief 

Dean of Students ] ames Roemer will issue two directives concerning alcohol use within the next few days. One directive will reiterate the University's concern with alcohol abuse, particularly in the football stadtum, while the second directive will specifically outlaw the Jpresence of kegs and pony kegs anywhere on campus. 
Both directives are now being 
Pope _-fohn Paul II plans to visit six US cities 
VATICAN CITY (AP) Pope]ohn Paul II will make a whirlwind tour ofsix cities in one week when hevisits the United States in early October, the Vatican announced yesterday: 
Itdisclosed at the same time that the pontiff considered but then dropped the idea of visiting embattled Northern Ireland. The Pope will still make his planned visit the Irish Republic on 
his way to the United States. 
The Vatican announcement said Pope]ohn Paul flies to Ireland Sept, 29 for a "pastoral visit" to Dublin, Drogheda, Balwa, the shrine city of Knock, Waymooth and Limerick. He flies to Boston Oct. 1. 
A joint announcement here and by the National Conference of Catholic Bishops in Washington, D.C., said the pope, after leaving Boston, will travel to New York, Philadelphia, Des Moines, Iowa, Chicago and Washington. 
Although it had not been previously announced, the Pope was considering a side trip to the Northern Ireland city of Armagh, seat of Ireland's Roman Catholilc primate, the Vatican said. But the recent Irish Republican Army murders of 18 'British soldiers and Earl Mountbatten of Burma forced him to abandon the plans, it said. 
''With deep regret, due to the dreadful murders ofrecent days, it has now been decided not to include a venue in Northern Ireland in the papal itinerary,'' said the statement read by chief Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Romeo Panciroli. 
The IRA has been fighting to end British rule in Northern Ire­
[continued on page .5] 

Outlaws kegs 

Dean of Students issues alcohol directive 

Moe, Curly, and Larry????Nice, guess, but these are late night Observer staff members trying to make it through the night. 
prepared for distribution to the students. 
Before completing final drafts of the directives, Roemer consulted with Student Body President Bill Roche, ] udicial Coordinator Jm. _ fare, and Hall Presidents Council Chair­person Ellen Dorney. This process is in keeping with a CLC-initiated recommendation passed last spring which demands that students comment oii directives concerning student life 48 hrs. before they are issued. According to Roemer, the use of this process is characteristic of the new philosophy towards Student Affairs. "I believe we have made a really concientious effort to seek student comments,'' he said. 

'I believe we have made a really concientious effort to seek student comments' 
"Each of the three students received drafts of one directive last May,'' Roemer explained. After incorporating their suggestions into a second draft, Roemer again submitted the directive for comment. · 
On the recommendation of Roche, the issues of alcohol abuse and the presence of kegs were divided into two different directives. O'Hare expressed concern that the first directive showed a double standard in its treatment of student and non­student alcohol abuse. The final draft of the directive eliminates this double standard, 
In Septemb!!r of 1978, Roemer issued a directive concerning alcohol abuse which caused concern to many students. The directive instituted a $50 minimum fine with possible '• separation from the community'' for ·any student caught drinking alcoholic beverages in the foot­ball stadium. 

Student reaction resulted in a 
"student ri~hts forum," but 
the directive was never 
rescinded. 
The new directive contains 
the same information 'about 
alcohol abuse, but extends the 
University's concern to cover 
non-student fans. According to 
Roemer, no fans will be allowed 
to bring cans and bottles of any 
kind into the stadium. 
Security personnel, 
consisting of ND security and 
off-duty police officers hired by 
the University, will enforce the 
directives. 
Roemer stressed that, in the past, fans have been stripped of tickets and arrested for mtoxi­.cat&on by security personnel although the practice has never 
been publicized. 
The printing of1his concern 
merely reinforces the 
Universiry policy. 
Accordmg to Roche, the 
system of obtaining student 
comment is very beneficial. 
"We believe we've had some 
very good input into the 
dir~ctive," he commented,. 
"Our. primary concern is with 
student input, and I think this is 
a step in the right direction.'' 
Both Roche and Student 
Body Vice-President Bill Vita 
agreed that the process can 
work. "I think we've avoided a 
lot of problems by commenting 
on the directive before it was 
issued," Roche concluded. 
~----­



News in brief 
_fud~e chooses to tr_y Gac_y on all char~es collective1y 
CHICAGO (AP) -Thirty-three murder charges against John W. Gacy, Jr., wilJ be tried together rather than one-by-one, as prosecutors had asked, a judge ruled Tuesday. Circuit Court Judge Louis B. Garippo said at a pretrial hearing that {>lecemeal prosecution woulds be time-consuming, repetitive and costly and would not serve the ends of justice. Gacy was indicted on charges of murdering 33 young men and boys with whom he allegedly had sexual relations. Twenty-nine bodies were unearthed on Gacy' s property just northwest of Chicago and four were recovered from area rivers. Garippo set Jan. 7 for the opening day of Gacy's trial. 
Former Green Beret receives murder conviction 
RALEIGH N.C. 1(AP) Jeffrey Macdonald, a former Green Beret captain, was convicted of murder Wednesday in the slayings of his wife and two young daughters 9'h years ago at their Fort Bragg home. A judge sentenced him to three consecutive life prison terms. Asked whether he had anything to say, Macdonald told U.S. District Judge Franklin 
T. Dur,ree Jr. with tears in his eyes but in a steady voice,' Sir, I'm not guilty. I don't think the court has heard all the evidence. That's all I have to say." A federal court jury deliberated six hours and 35 minutes after a 7 week trial before finding Macdonald,35, guilty of first-degree murder in the bludgeoning and stabbin~ slaying of his 2-year old daughter,Kristen. The jury convicted him of second-degree murd~~ !n the deaths of his pregnant wife, Colette,26, and !daughter, Kimberly. 
Department to investi~ate Marble Hill happenin~s 
INDIANAPOUS (AP) · The Justice Department will investigate allegations that concrete flaws at the Marble Hill nuclear construction site were ordered covered up by supervisors. U.S. Attorney Virginia Dill McCarty said she will meet Thursday with FBI agents and inspectors from the 
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission to determine how her office will investigate the matter. Mrs. McCarty said she and other attorneys from her office will add interviews on the Marble Hill construction problems to the agenda of a previously planned trip to New Albany tomorrow. 
Catholics to honor 
St. Francis ~f Assisis 
WEST PATERSON N.J. (AP) To honor St. Francis of 
Assisis, patron saint for anunals, a Roman Catholic priest 
here is among those asking parishoners to bring their cats, 
dogs and parakeets to church. The Rev. Albert Gorayes, 
pastor of St. Ann's Byzatine Catholic Church, will bless all 
kinds of pets Sunday durin~ a rl· -li,·d.tion ceremony for an 
outdoor shrine in the Saint s h .... or. The parish intends to 
make the blessing of animals an annual event bringing 
attention to man's responsibility "for all God's creatures," 
said Anne Esses, a par1shoner coordinating the activities. St. 
Francis of Assisi, whose feast is Oct. 4, founded the 
Franc1scan order. In 1208, in his Canticle of the Sun, he 
called animals his "brothers and sisters." 
Weather 
I· 

Partir Cloudy today through tomorrow with a slight chance for showers and Thundershowers. Highs today and Tomorrow in the low 80's. Low tonight in the mid 60's. 
CamP-_us_~ 
3:30 pm TOUR. intro to computing center facilities, 115 CCMB 
4:30pm ND/SMC PICNIC SMC DINING HAll GREEN 
8 pm OUTDOOR CONCERT rock music with "slink rand," 
FLANNER-GRACE GREEN 
9 pm WELCOME BACK PARTY members and applicants; K OF C HAll 
r 
Thursday, Au~ust 30, 1979 -pa~e 2 
Mestrovic period 
Work begins on major archival 
Final work is in progress at the University of Notre Dame Art Gallery for a major archival project centering around the American period of Ivan Mestrovic, the noted Croatian sculptor who served on the faculty between 1955 and his death in 1962. Phase two of the project, his Yugoslavian period, IS expected to be completed in advance of a major eXhibition noting the lOOth anniversary of 
the artist's birth in 1884. 
Financing for the project, which includes written, photo­, graphic and artistic material, 
comes from University funds SMC Student Government 
The Observer. reports on book exchange 
Night Editor: Beth 
Huffman 

Yesterday's crowd bought
Asst. Night Editor: Rod 
over half the books bemg
Beard 

offered at the sale, according to 
News Editor: Mark Rust 
Chip Dornbach, vice-president
Copy Reader: Mike 
Onufrak 

of Student Affairs. She also·
Layout Staff: Tom Hostel-· 
noted prices run about half the 
ter, Pam Degnan 

price of the original, or less.
Editorial Layout: Ann Gales 
Students who left books to be
Features Layout: Ten· 
sold may pick up their money
Michielutti

Sports Layout: John Smith, !,________________________,.._ 
Pau! B. MuUaney Typ1sts: Beth Jf"illard, Bill N.Y. Times 
PANDORA'S

Swift, Pam Degnan, Betsy 
Paraphenalia
M.asana Ad Layout: Joe Murphy, 
a:•

Magazines 233-2342
Bob Rudy 
0 

Thanks john! 
937 So. Bend Ave. o~ 
The Observer !USPS 5!18 920] Is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the . students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. SubscrlptiGM may Ill purch11ed for $20 per yur ($10 per samesterl from The Observer. P.O. box 
Q. Notre bame, Indiana 46556. SICDIId clan "=e paid, Notre D11me, In­
diana . 

The Observer Is 1 member of the Associated Pl'lll. All repnMiucUonrlghts.are ruerved. • • -.ror · -. ·• 
of Art and Lor,don's Victoria Alber Museum, and was de­scribed by Rodin as "the great­est phenomenon among the 
sculptors of the world." Among his more 6unous works are "The Descent from the Cross" (Pieta), in Notre Dame's Sacred Heart Church and the Indians astride horses at the entrance to Chica~~o' s Grant Park. 
and unsold books on Monday at the Student Government office. The books are being sold on a consignment basis. 
An estimated 400 Saint Mary's students obtained books yester­day at the Used Book Sale in the Student Government building on that campus. the sale will continue through Friday. 
~ 

b!l Cotb!l's en 
USED BOOKS FOR MANY N·D· ·cLASSES WE ALSO BUY USED TEXTS Ar~D PAPERBACKS VISIT ·us QUICKLY WHILE SUPPLIES LAST 
BunERFLY CHAIR 
$34.99 $2.00 Off 

with this coupo11 
colors: yellow brown chestnut black 

THE LIFESTYLE FURNITURE COMPANY 
silkscreens from
-. 

$7.99 to $19.99 
murals 8ft. Sin. x 12ft. 139.99 
100 Centet ffilshawaka 
·­

matchin~ a $3,000 grant from the Ind1ana Arts Commission and the National Endowment for the Arts. Assisting Dr. Dean A. Porter, project direc­tor, are Diana Matthias and Denise Dupres of the University Art Gallery Staff. 
Mestrovic was the first living artist to be honored with "one­man exhibitions'' at both New York's Metropolitan Museum 


The Observer ~Thursday, August 30, 1979-pa~e 3 
Wmds up to 140 mph. 
Hurricane threatens Carribean 

San Juan, Puerto Rico (AP) , • 50 miles from the center of the Hurricane bavid mover over strom, and gale winds of up' to the Caribbean yesterday lash-74 miles an hour reached 150 ing three small islands with miles from the hurricane, which heavy rains and winds up to 140 was moving northwest at 14 mph. The storm was headed mph. The Coast Guard said the toward Puerto Rico 350 miles storm could approach the to the northwest. ' southeast coast of Puerto Rico The hurricane, one of the most by late Thursday. . . 
dangerous ever to strike the region, passed between Martin­ique and Dominica yesterday afternoon after skirting east of Barbados. The U.S. National Weather Service said. 
David missed population cen­ters and there were no reports ofcasualties,seriousdamageor unusual flooding. 
U.S. Coast Guard officials here said they were worried about 10 people posted at a weather stauon on the tiny Venezuelan 
island of Aves, about 100 miles due west of Dominica and in the hurricane's path. 
''The island is right at sea lev­el'' a spokesman said. ''If it hit there, it could be trouble.'' Hurricane force winds radiated 
• • . Hair 

September .. .football games, classes, and cool weather. 
[continued from page 1) 
situations.'' 
Vita stressed the importance of a "commitment from the secur­ity director to attend to student needs." As representatives of the student bodr., Vita believes that he and Btll Roche must know the problems of the students and the frustration they subsequently encounter with security officers. 
''We're looking for someone with a good desree of adapta­bility and flexibility in his view of the job -someone who will protect the students, not police them,'' Vita said. 
Through his own experience, Wall sees the need for the 
Pr~f. Katz 
initiates 
lecturesI 
Steven T. Katz, chairman and professor of religion at Dartmouth colle~e, will present the ftrst talk m the newly established Liss Lectures in 
Judaica at the University of Notre Dame Sept. 6. ''The Uniqueness of the Holocaust" will be the topic for the 8 p.m. talk in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
The new lecture series was recently endowed by a gift from South Bend businessman Bert Liss and his wife, Etta. \ Noted theologians, educators aQd his­torians of the Jewish faith will present a public lecture and meet with faculty and students associated with Notre Dame's Center for the study of Judaism
,, 
'I and Christianity in Antiquity. 
• • • Wall 
security director to have both a sense of humor and a sensitivity to students. Wall, however, thinks the new director may need more than that. "My biggest headache as security director has been trying to get more money appropriated to enlarge parking facilities,'' Wall remarked. _ ­
Echoing the views of the other committee members, Wall con­veyed a strong commitment to improving the training of secur­ity officers. He said that the present force is ''greatly im­proved over last year," owing to a thirty-hour training pro­tgram whtch they participated m over the summer. 
[continued from page 5} 
ing, it does not require the use 
of a toner. 
University Hair Stylists has 
already been busy with 
requests for hair conditioning, 
perming, coloring, highlight­
ing, cutting, etc. Emmons did 
not anticipate such a large wave 
of customers so soon in the 
year. Even so, he still manages 
to accept walk-ins. 
To be guaranteed service, 
however, it is best to call in 
advance 'for an appointment, 
Emmons said.....The nwnber to 
call is 283-4395. Emmons' 
current hours run 8-5 a.m. 
Monday throu~h Saturday, but 
inevitably willmclude one night . a week--possibly Thursday. 
.. \'And Emmons' prices? Hair­
cut,-$7; shampoo, air-dry, style 
and ~ut -$13; style or set -$6; 
per~'-$30-$40. Highlighting 
vanes. 

KNIGHTS OF COLUmBUS LADIES OF COLUmBUS 
announce out Welcome Back Patty Thuts. Aug. 30 (thats tonight) 9 pm til ? open to all membets 
BE THEREI 


ATTENTION Knights of Columbus & Ladle• 
of Columbus membets ·NEW KEY CARD SYSTEm IN US_l TO PICK UP NEW KEY CARD YOU mUST PRESENT TRAVELING CARD 
TO GK or DGK 

Telep~one com.muotcanons to ma~y tslands 10 the . Lesser f\.nttll~s w~re out yesterday, · mclu~t?g ltnes to .Barbados, ~arumque, ~t. Lucta and St. V~ncent, offictals of th~ Puerto Rtco Telep~one Co. satd. 
IfDavt~, now located about 1,?00~ md~s .southeast ~f Mtamt, mamtams course . 1t would. pass sout~ ~f Puerto Rt~o and ~lt the:; Domtmcan Republtc on Htspamola ~sland However, hurricanes are known to shift direction erratically. Oil Clark of the National Hurricane Center in Miami said it was "too difficult to tell" where David will go. 
"It's coming toward the United States. That's all you can say now," Clark said. 
As the storm moved over the Carribbean, weather officials extended the hurricane watch to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, located about 1,000 miles southeast of Miami and 1,6000 miles from New York. 
"We've given a code two for the south coast, which means we have begun to alert resi­dents in the zone to make the necessary preparations, said a Coast Guard spokesman on Puerto Rico. 

S.M C GRADS·· THIS IS OUR WAY OF 
SAYING WE'RE GLAD TO HAVE YOU BACK & WISH YOU A GREAT YEAR! 
AM640 

NOTRE DAME'S PROGRESSIVE SOUND 
WSND RADIO ANNOUNCES Auditions and 
Applicationsfor 
AM-FM OJ'S News and Sports Broadca_sting Studio production and programming Engineering and Sales Apply Sept. 4 or 5 from 7-10 pm 
room 361 O'Shag 

The Observer Thursday, August 30, 1979 -p~e 4 
----------------------------------------------------~------------------~----------­
.. 



Beers, Burgers, Hot Dogs & Music in Green Field 
@ 
0 


Happy Hour at Senior Bar 
• starting at 8 prri 
Soviets claim U.S. influence major factor in Bolshoi dancer's defection 
MOSCOW (AP) -Boshoi Ballet defector Alexander Godunov was lured away from his home­land "by a whole team of instigators promising him mountains of ~old and a sea of free whiskey, ' a Soviet news­paper charged yesterday. But m New York, the dancer told a differnet story. 
Literaturnaya Grzeta, a prom-, inent weekly, said the plan b9 
U.S. "provacateurs" worked and on Aug. 23, Godunov disappeared without sayin~ a word to his ballerina wtfe, Ludmilla Vlasova. '' 
It claimed the dancer held off the "siege" he was under until . these trappers of men's 

_The Observer_ 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46.556 
We-require photo!(raphers. Call Dou!( at 8932. 
UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS 
8-5 Mon.-Sat. located in Badin Hall 283-4395 on Campus 
HELP WANTED I River City Records is now accepting applications for full-time and part-time employment. 
contad : Peter Kernan 50970 U.S. 31 North 277-4242 
• 
souls decided to strike! at his psyche, planting in the Amer­Ican press dirty slanderous rumors about his wife in order to persuade the husband to leave her and to break him spiritually.'' 
But Godunov himself, at a New York news conference W ednes­day, said his defection was a spur·or-the -moment affair. He said he went to American authorities after missing a cur­few for the ballet troupe. He said he knew his tardiness would mean he would not be free later on to approach U.S. officials. The ballet star told reporters he he acted "solely _for artistic reasons." 

Of his wife, who returned to the Soviet Union after a three-day stalemate at New York's Ken­nedy Airport over whether she was being forced to go home, Godunov said, ''I think that everything is going to be all right. I hope so.'' 
The Literaturnaya Gazeta re­port was the first account of why the 29-year-old Bolshoi star went to U.S. officials and asked for asylum Aug. 22. 
The Soviet press had carefully avoided reporting Godunov' s defection until Tuesday, when Tass reported he had dropped from sight and said the circum­stances around the incident "are not yet clear. " 
Godunov' s defection set off an 
international incident when 
U.S. officials kept an Aeroflot jetliner carrying Miss Vlasova from leaving New York last Friday until she could be ques­tioned by American authonties. 
A compromise was reached Monday and the plane flew to Moscow. 
Literaturnaya ·Gazeta accused 
U.S. agents with beginning their attempts to win Godunov to the American side as early Aug.1 when the 150 member Bolshoi troupe began its New York tour. 
In an interview with Liter-· aturnaya Gazeta Miss Vlasova was quoted as saymg she began trying to return to th<'~ Soviet Union as soon as Godunov disapeared from the company, fearing something ''awful'' would happen to her. 
Workshop to be o_ffered 
"Chr' · 
A workshop on tsuan
Initiation" will be offered b 
the Notre Dame Center fJ 
Pastoral Liturgy Sept. 16.21. 
Members of liturgy plannin committees, diocesan liturgica~ c;:ommissions, directors of religious education, and other interested persons are invited to attend the workshop at Fatima Retreat House on the University of Notre Dame campus. 
Through presentations, discussion and workshop sessions, the program will deal with the theological and pastoral dimensions of Christian initiation. It also will include daily eucharist and 

Junk mail bombards California man's doorstep 
CUPERTINO, Calif. (AP)-M. Douglas Carothers says his doorsteJ? was bombarded by 7,000 pteces of junk mail in a year long silent war with a neighbor that started over the planting of an olive tree. 
Vincent Luigi Napoli, a com­puter engineer, was in jail
d af b · b k d 
yest~r ay . t<?r emg oo e for m'-:'esttgatwn of a. charge 
• stemmmg fro~ the fusdlade of letters, tec~mcal manuals an~ tadgets delivered to Carothers 
ouse. . 
The war zon<? for thts subur­ban b~ttle 45 m1les south of San Franc~sco was. a c~nu_non prop­erty lme, where It IS alleged that Napoli planted an olive tree about a yc;ar ago. 
~ostal mspector Bob Kong sat.d Carothers, an attorney, obJected and "'on the first round when t~e t~ee was mo~ed over to Napoli s stde of the ltne. 
Not long after that, Carothers says, he started being deluged by unwanted mail and Napoli 
"stopped talking to me." "I certainly hadn't asked for any of the mail," said the 
attorney.  "It  went  on  for  a  
year .. .I  estimate  I got  about  
7,000 pieces.  I had  a  3-foot  
stack in my bedroom."  

"We got to know the truck drivers pretty well,''' he added ruefully. 
Carothers said he was getting at least 20 pieces of junk mail a day, and at one potnt tried to fight the flood with a form letter advising the companies he didn't want their $oods and
1 asking them to qu1t sending 
him stuff. ''I spen more than $100 on postage," he said. 
Carothers said that while he was • scratching his head over the unwanted flood, piles of material arrived at his house-­books of all kinds, electronic and architectural manuals. He said some actual goods also arrived ''which I turned away at the door." 




--~----------.._.,.---..,..,..--:----:------.
-c-------------------­
,' 


The Observer Thursday, Au,gust 30, 1979 -pa~e 5 

. Pope 

[continued from page 1] · 
land 
The Popev.iil address the United Nations General Asembly in New York on Oct. 2, the statement said. While in Washington, he is expected to meet President Carter at the White House, becoming the first pontiff to visit there. 
The Pope will remain overnight in Boston and fly to New York on Oct. 2 and to Philadelphia on Oct. 3. On Oct. 4, he will fly to Des Moines for several hours, then to Chicago, where l)~ stays until Oct. 6, flying then to Washington for a two-day stay. ''In each city the Holy Father is expected to celebrate Mass for a large outdoor c~;ngregation,'' said the announcement. 
The. only other pope to set foot on U.S. soil was Paul VI, who made a 13-hour "pilgrimage for peace" to New York and the United Nations on Oct. 4, 1965 and made an appearance before a huge crowd in Yankee Stadium. 
John Paul, when he was Cardinal Karol Wojtyla ofKrakow, toured 11 American cities in 1969. Since becoming Pope, he has traveled to Mexico and his native Poland. 


Emmons' haircare center provides up to date styles 
by Robbie Moore StaffReporter 
Joe Emmons believes that "hair is basically a unisex item--what works well for a man also works well for a. woman.'' 
His new unisex hair care center, located in the lower level of Badin Hall, is designed to cater to the needs of a fast-growing segment of today's society--that set who does not have a lot of time to spend on their hair, relying instead on the haircare specialist for "maintenance." 
Typically a part of this group is college students, male and female alike. 
Emmons is a graduate of Indiana State and a resident of Mishawaka. He has been cutting hair since he set up shop in his dorm room in 1963. 
He found hairstyling "so excitine'' that he left his studies in pre-med and geology to become a full-time profes­sional hairspecialist. 
Emmons saw a lot of un­tapped business at Notre Dame. He decided to capture the market, but not in "beauty parlor style." His shop is pleasant though plain, ar­ranged in booths for a private yet open look. And Emmons has room for expansion. 
At the moment, he is oper­ating the unisex center under the care of Cindy Berger, his shop manager. In the future he plans to take on two more master stylists--one man and one woman. In proper keeping with the unisex theme, this move will maintain the staff in equal male to female ratio. 

Like Cindy, Emmons' new stylists will both be qualified beauty school graduates, with advanced educat;on in clinics and seminars. . ou fade out if you don't keep up in this field,'' Emmons said. . 
He intends to keep his staff up to date on all current trends in haircare by seriding them to the various shows and clinics available. 
One of the more recent developments in haircare offered by Emmons is the foam permanent. It provides soft curls and "is ideal" for ND jocks, according to Emmons-­with towel-drying and a quick fluff with the fingers, it's ready to go. Emmons "recommends it for the bad hairline and promises it will not burn the hair." 
Another popular develop­ment is called ''tortoise­shelling,'' a current trend in coloring. A type of highlight­
[continued on page 3] 
the studlent union social commission 
tequests the honot of yout ptesence at the second annual 

POLISH WEDDING 
I t,J J ·~ -,, ~ ·­

satutday;lsept 1st 9-1 am Stepan Centet 
S2 admission ptlce includes ftee munchies, .soft dtlnks, polish cuisine, wedding cake, and btlde and gtoom 
Follow Notre Dame football in the ChicagoTribune 
And the fastest way to get the score is to have The Tribune delivered right to your door each morning. Order the Midwest's most complete newspaper during Fall Registration at: 
call Richard flaherty 283-8689 Girls--The Tribune will be delivered to your door this year. 
-

TU'ntothen-;; • ([litra!lO u_ttbunt 
(/) G 
0 c 
c 
0 
0­

OJ 
mz 
.. 

zo ,.
o:n 
--i 
J: 
• 

Zs;
0­
-() -" G 
)>:r: 
-

z­
)>~ ,. -.. 
.t-2 ~ 
Ol Ol 
0 -:t •
" 


..
.. 





'Editorials 
Thursday, August 30, 1979 ~page 6 
P· .. 0· Box Q 
DOOIISBDY 
A scholar who 
knew the value 
of friendship 
Dear Editor: 
t\mid the rush of classt>~ beginning once again, Profc-s· sor Joseph Evans was buried , this WC"ek. He was a quiet scholar, and I never knew him,r hut my daughtt>r Fran did. She
r 
never studied philosophy, but
r 
in two short WC"eks she learned
r 
much about the art of friend-
r 
ship from him. ,
r
, fran worked in the cafeteria this summer and she sat and
r 
talkf"d with Professor Evans
r 
when he ate his dinner alone.
r The-simplicity and warmth of
r his friendship lit up her sum­
,r r mer. Now Fran is in Mexico for her sophomore year. She doesn't know that her friend is gone, and it will be a real
~ sorrow for her when she g~ts our lettt>r. I am writing this for ht>r so that
, ~ 
, Professor Evans' otht>r frit>nds may remt>mber to say a prayer of grateful thanks for the gift of a man who was a scholar, and yet knew the valut> of friendship and gave it to those around him. 
Marguerite Cackley 
Friends for life 
oppose upcoming 
conference 
Editor's Note: The following letter refers to a National Conference on Abortion which u•tlf be held at Notre Dame October 15-17. The conference is sponsored b:r the Center for the Study ofMan in Contempo­rary Society. 
Dear Editor: 
:\nnouncc-m<"nt of the Univer­stt\ of Notre Dame's upcoming unduttered abortion debate prompted me to write Rev. ) ames Burtchaell, conferencC" Convenor, to ask if any other subjC"ct would get the same kind of "neutral" treatment the abortion debate is scheduled to get. 
Using the conference brochure and substituting the word 
•'•sacerdocide," or the "killing of Catholic/riests," for abor­Lton I aske if a totally unemo­tional, uncluttered discussion of that issue would fit into their format: 
The question of killing o[ pnesls e-ntails issues of sociaJ welfare, human and civil right, ethical value, public funding policy, emotional integration, professional probity, health care and polttical dissent. The debate about sacerdocide has at tirpes been shrill and intemper­ate, but in a certain sense it has been timely and in a good way, provocative. We are pushed by tt to consider and to negotiate some issues close to personal conscien<·e and the national welfare that we might other­wise be tempted to ignore. 
Notre Dame's Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society is, for this reason, convening a conference on the 
ktlling of Catholic pn'ests. Speakers at the confc-rence have bet:n invited with two purposes in mind: first, to provide information or interpre­tation that might help to unclut­ter the nattonal debate of unfounded assumptions or mis­construed facts; second, to address some important policy tssues that the ktlling ofCatha­


-~==========-~==============~============ 
Inflation in the nursery 
lie pn'ests debate stirs up but 
-/u..1 f-0~~~ 
cannot resolve. .._'-VCJ <::Jf\J f/' What are the circumstances ~,li;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.;;;;-;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;ii;;;ii;;:;;{J~
and given motives of men and women who secure the ktlling of Catholic priests? What is known. psychologically about these women, and about others who experience the burden of unwanted clergy but do not choose to kill their priests? What is the reliability of re­ports, abundant but conflicting, of social science research re· garding sacerdocide? 
t\mid different polls and con­clusions, what is the best verifiable sense of public opin­ion regarding the morality, the legality, or the funding of sacerdocide? Is there any avenue of ethical inquiry down w~ich ~arties on opposing sides mtght Journey together?· 
Speakers hold a variety of personal and political po­sitions on the acceptability of sacerdocide. Each has been invited because he or she has cogent and articulate things to say which can contribute pro· fessionally to anyone's thinking on the subject of the ktlling of Catholic pnests from whatever perspective. 
joseph M. Scheidler Executive Director Fn'ends for Ltfe 
lhe opening of the school year and the tight money situatign are working hardships on many ;':1 rents throughout the country. I\ I~ ~'riend Block was in despair when I saw him the other day. 
"When Roger was born," Block said, "we immediately took out an insurance policy for his education. Now because of inflation and the high cost of schooling, we've used it all up, and Roger still has six months 
Editorial 
Policy 
The Observer welcomes com­ments from its readers. All letters must be typed, double space; the name, address and stgnature of the author must be included. The Observer re­serves the right to edit all material for grammar, length, and libelous statements. 
to go." 

"College is that expensive?" I 
asked-: 

"What do you mr-an, col­
lege?" Block said. "Roger 
goes to nursery school.'' 
"Nursery school, huh?'' 
''Twenty-five hundred dollars 
a year, not counting the year­
book or the prom." Block said. 
"I guess our big mistake was sending Roger to l?renursery school. You start a ktd at three in school, and then you have no money left for his serious education when he becomes five. If I had to do it all over again, I would probably kt him stay in his sandbox, but Alice was adamant about his getting a good, solid background." 
"Couldn't you borrow some 
money from the bank to let 
Roger finish out nursery 
school?'' 

"Well, we did borrow a thou­
sand dollars at the beginning of 
the summer." 

"What happened to it?" 
"We used 1t to send Roger to day camp." 
"At least the money wasn't 
administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and 
_The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible_ Editorials represent the opinton of a majority of Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentanes, optnions and leners are the views of The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space rs avatl· n~spa~r published by students of able-to all members of the community, the Umversity of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying Saint Mary's College. It d~s not opinions on campus, through letters, is 
nece-ssarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Features Editor .. Kathleen Connelly Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian 
Business Manager ..... Steve Odland Production Manager .. _ . Tim SuiJivan 
Advenising Manager ......Bob Rud~ Controlkr . . . . . . . . . Kevin Manion 
Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Edirorial Ediwr .......... Ann Gaks Executive News"Editor-... Mike Lewis News Ediror ............ Mark Rust Nc:ws Editor .......... Mike Shields 'Saint Mary's Editor ..... EUen Buddy Sports Ediror ...........Mark Perry 
by art buchwald 
wasted," I said. "Aren't there any government grants for kids who want to finish out nurseryschool?" 
"I looked into it. Most of the grants avai!able are in graduate yvork for children who are either tn th_e fifth grade or above. The parncular nursery school that Roger goes to could have gotten 
a large grant from the govern­ment if it was willing to do research in germ warfare. But the headmistress said she wouldn't allow her children to do any research at the school that couldn't be published la­ter." 
''I guess scholarships are out?" I said. 
"You don't understand," Block said. "It just isn't the tuition that kills you in nursery school. It's the school bus, finger paints, clay, and choco­late milk that really mounts up the cost. You have to add another $1, )00 for that." 
"It's like a yacht," I said. "It isn't the imtial cost but the 
upkeep that counts." 
·­

"Ex~c~ly. I yvent to Yale for what tt s costmg me to send Roger through nursery school. But when I 1dl him this, it doesn't seem to faze him at all. Kids take everything for grant· ed these days." 
"You haven't suggested to Roger that he could wait on tables to earn part of the tuition himself?'' 
"Alice is against it. She says nursery school should be a happy time for a child, and a kid shouldn't have to worry about working just because his father hadn't made adequate plans for his education." 
''You do seem to be in a spot," I admitted. "But I guess the day Roger graduates from nursery school, you'll realize all the sacrifice and agony were worthwhile.'' 
"I probably would, but Roger has already indicated he wants to go to first grade.'' 
" 

[c) 1979, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 
------"":":'::':::==============-=----~--------------:-.---------­


Thursday, Au_gust 30, 1979 -pa_ge 7
Features 
010€ l1V€S tou~ .. 1979 
Photos by Doug Chtlstlan Review by ffiatk Pe11y 
The ascent of various rock and roll album, REO devoted the rest of the bands to the top of the heap has taken show to cuts off their live album. Lead a dramatic turn in the late 1970's, as singer Kevin Cronin added some new several bands have enjoyed the twists to the old favorites, as he proverbial "overnight success." provided some of the stories related to Bands like Boston, The Cars, Dire these songs as he pranced around in Straits, Foreigner, and several others his sky blue tights. , have made it platinum on their very Favorites like "Keep Pushin'", "15 7 first attempt, some without benefit ofa Riverside Ave.'' (featuring the musical tour, and this trend doesn't seem to be phone conversation between Cronin letting up. , and Richrath), and "Ridin' the Storm 
One of the exceptions to this rule Out'' had the crowd screaming for visited the ACC last night to provide more. The band finished with two the first concert of the fall semester. encores, including a fantastic verswn REO Speedwagon has been around of ''Golden Country" that made the quite a few years (I can still remember album cut seem minor and a version of when they played high schools in the Their present tour has been designed the chorus again, and then the big "Rock and Roll Music" that would Chicago area), and had to pay their to promote the latest Speedwagon finish. It may be formula, but it seems have made Chuck Berry proud. dues before they finally made it to the production, "Nine Lives", and most of to work. Watching a band like REO perform is big time. Live performances gave the first half of the show was devoted But the cwwd came to hear the REO proof that overnight success might not them the recognition that they needed, to cuts from this album. "Only the classics, and the boys delivered. ''Roll be rhe best way to the top. The as their "Live--You get What You Play Strong Survive" stood out as possible With the Changes'' kicked off the sreedwagon is a band with a few years For'' album gained national attention, Top 40 material, but most of the tunes second set, featuring a floe organ solo o ~easonmg, and the intensity of last and they haven't looked back since. seemed to follow the same formula: a by keyboardist Neil Doughty and some night's concert was a sound indication Last night's show was solid evidence couple of verses with a catchy chorus, dynamic guitar work by Richrath. that a little seasoning doesn't hurt in that they haven't forgotten their roots. a solo by lead guitarist Gary Richrath, After another song from the new rock and roll 
I 
I 
J 
~ 
A 
j 


The Observer Thursday, August 30, 1979 -page 8 
After talks stall 

ChipDornbach, Saint Mary's student body vice-preszdent ofStudent Affairs, is in charge of the Used Book Sale going on at Saint Mary's [second from left] 

I I I I I I I I I 
::::;::;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;~;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::~:~:::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::~: 
:llr notRe Oame-Sa1nt maRy'sllll m\ 

~ theatRe 1J 
If ann~~i;;fi~: rou ~ 

: *::.~:~~-?:~~ ~R~~l€t* * II 
~~~~ Sat, S€pt. 1 1-5 pm ~lllI catlsacks, Sun. S€pt. 2 at 1 pm t 
:::: Wash1nqton hall .(nO camous--\I t Pleas€ US€ sack StaiRS) r 
••••• JnstuuctJ~~~~~i~:th;~~rnt. ~. 
:-·_.;::::::::::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::;;:::::::::::::::~=~=~=~::;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::: :::=:· 
student union social commissioo-. presents the 2nd annual WELCOME WEEK 
Thurs concert between Towers featuring Slink-Rand 8 pm Fri class picnics locations to be announced
movie 'Animal Crackers' 7,9,11 pm eng. aud. $1 
sat The Polish Wedding Stepan Center 
9-1 am $2 admission 
music by Free Wheelin' 
'Animal Crackers 7,9,11 eng. aud. $1 
The Student Union & Student Activities 
ptesents on 
EXHIBITION &SALE 
-Of Fine Att Prints 
8tueghe1 Degas ffionet Renoir Cezanne Homer Picasso Rousseau 

Clerks strike Rock Island Line 
CHICAGO (AP) -About 1,800 clerks struck the Rock Island Line Railroad yesterday, disrupting movement of grain perishable produce, coal anci industrial goods on its 7,200 miles of track in 13 states. 
The union's picket lines wert~ honored by other workers throughout the system and only one train got out after the strike:~ began, said Chris Knapton, vice president for public rela· tions. The strike was called at 6 
a.m. after talks broke down in a long-standing wage dispute. 
Knapton said 60 to 70 veteran ensineers were flown from Chicago to get the trains mov­ing again and supervisors would take over as switchers and brakemen. 
The raliroad normally oper·­ates 100 trains a day in Illinois, Iowa, Minesota, Missouri, Kansas, Colorado, New Mexico, Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana, Tennessee and Nebraska. 
In Washington, E.C., the National Mediation Board re­jected a request from the railroad to study the dispute. 
Chairman Robert 0. Harris said the board does not believe the strike threatens to deprive any section of the country of essential transportation ser· vice. He said he does not "now expect that a presidential emer­gency board will be appointed.'' Apppointment of such a board would automatic­ally end the strike for 60 days. 
Fred J. Kroll, president of the Brotherhood of Railway and Airline Clerks union, called for ''rolled up sleeves collective bargaining'' by management. He said the walkout was prompted by Rock Island's failure "to negotiate realistic­ally'' on pay issues and its rejection of binding arbitration of the dispute. 
Knapton said the current wage rate, "which averages about $7 to $8 an hour," is not the issue. "It's retroactive pay back to early 1978 that amounts to about $14 million and we just haven't sot it." 
He said the rail line would attempt to get the trains mov· ing again within the next few days. 
"We'll haul grain to Kansas City and use other carriers to take it to the Gulf Coast,'' Knapton said: "Twenty-five percent of all grain we carry is for overseas shipment--a $3 billion business. The corn harvest is almost here, but some has been stored and waiting shipment since 1977. 
''The soybean harvest is a month away. Wheat harvest was in late]une and early]uly in Oklahoma and Kansas. Much of it is stored awaiting shipment,'' Knapton said. 
The nation's grain shipments already had been threatened by a strike by grain millers in the Midwest, now in its eighth week, which has all but halted shipments from Duluth, Minn., and Superior, Wis. Talks were to resume yesterday. 
Knapton said supervisory personnel will get coal from Colorado to utilities in Nebraska and Iowa, and prior· ities also will be given to ''hot cars~' with perishable produce and other Items which need quick shipment. 

U.S. Navy initiates moves against racism; seeks to attract more black recruits 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Navy ordered a crackdown on "racist activities" yesterday and said it is seeking to increase black recruitment with special training. 
The two-pronged action came in response to strong criticism 
of Navy policies by black congressional leaders and because the Navy is failing to meet its overall recruiting goals. 
Adm. Thomas B. Hayward, chief of naval operations, sent all of his ship and shore commanders a strongly worded order to use their full powers to "deal effectively wtth racist activity." 
''Prejudice and preparedness are incompatible,'' Hayward told his commanders while hinting that their careers will be affected by the way they handle racial problems. 
"Recent incidents within the Navy involving racist organiz. ations highlight the need for every commander ... to be fully aware of command responst­bilities for enforcing anti­discrimination policies." the Navy's top admiral said. 
Haywar~ did not specify the organizations, nor did he detail the incidents. But there have been reports of Ku Klux Klan 
activity  aboard  at  least  two  
Atlantic fleet ships.  
'Last  month,  Kathleen  

Carpenter, the Pentagon's civil rights chief, expressed concerp. about "a dramatic increase m manifestations of Kl-.:.K 
to score high enough on test scores to enter Navy specialist training schools will be given remedial education in reading, writing and arithmetic, so they can qualify for such schools. 
Officials denied any lowering of standards, saying the purpose is to make blacks and others eligible for better jobs in the Navy rather than limiting many of them to such menial tasks as deckhand and cook. 
The result of the special new training, officials said, will be to upgrade the qualifications of more blacks for such specialities as machinists mate, electricians mate and similar technical jobs. 
The latest available man­power report shows only 9.4 percent of the Navy's enlisted personnel are black -the lowest of any of the armed services. Blacks had_about 43,000 of the Navy's 462,000 enlisted men and women. 
Navy 1 manpower officials acknowledged Wednesday that 
activity,'' among off-duty the ne.w "bootstrap" prog.rams
Klee Rembrandt Van Gogh 
service personnel. were necessary because it

Chagall W h 
While Hayward's order was appears the service will fall
Dall Lautrec Remington yet 
being made public, the Navy about 4,500 men and women 
announced a new "upward short of its recruiting goals in mobility" program. Under the Fiscal 1979, which ends Sept. 
FULL COLOR REPRODUCTIONS OF FAMOUS WORKS OF ART! 
LOW STUDENT PRICES 3 FOR ONLY $7! today & Friday ONLY 
plan, those recruits who failed 30.
9:30 am-5:00 pm LaFortune Student Center Lobby 
.. 
The Observer 

Summer days are over as students once again settle into college life at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
-

LONDON (AP) -The I~sh.Re­publican Army's assassmatto~?-s of Lord Louis Mountbatten m the Irish Republic and 18 
British soldiers in Northern Ireland mark a new and bloody escalation in the IRA's guerrilla war to end British rule in Northern Ireland. 
British security chiefs say the guerrillas, . the .successors of generations of Insh rebels who fought the British, now. are better armed and orgamzed than at any time since they launched therr campaign in February 1971, with connec­tions to terrorist groups around the world. 
And military intelligence offi­cials warn the guerrillas are expected to in.tensify the~r c~m­paign, includmg assassmatmg prominent Britons at;!d re~~w­ing bombing of English Cities. 
They note the guerrillas may 
Rock announces schedule 
The Knute Rockne Memorial 
gymnasium  will  be  open  to  
• students  and  faculty  on  
Sundays from  10  a.m.  to  11  

p.m., Monday through Friday from 2:30a.m. to 11 p.m., and Saturdays from 9 a.m. to 11 
p.m. for the fall semester of 1979. 
Activities nil(ht planned 
Activities Night will be held Monday, Sept. 10 from 7 p.m. until midnight. 
Please have a representative from your campus club or organization fill out an author­
ization  form  at  the  Student  
Activities/Volunteer  Services  
Office  on  the  first  floor  of  
LaFortune.  

All authorization forms must be returned by Thursday, Sep. 6. 
Archbishop to 
speak on 
econ..fustice. 
Archbishop Marcos McGrath 
of Panama will address econ­
omic justice as a global relig­
ious issue when he opens the 
fall conference of the Catholic 
and Protestant Committees on 
Urban Ministry, to be held at 
the University of Notre Dame 
October 21-24. 
Organized around the theme, "Toward a Just &onomy for the 80s,'' the meeting will moye from ll!lalyzing the problem~ to assessmg the appropnate church and community response and, fmally, planning specific strategies for action. 
Thursdav, Au~ 30, .1979 ~ p~e 9 
IRA steps· up sectarian violence 
soon beef UJ> their increasingly sophisticated arsenal of wea­pons with SAM anti-aircraft missiles -adding a chilling new dimension to the Irish conflict. 
The assassinations made Mon­day are one of the worst sin~le days of violence since sectanan fighting erupted in Northern Ireland 10 years ago, and climaxed months of mounting attacks by the IRA's "Provis­ional" wing and other IRA factions a~ainst security forces and promment Britons. 
So far this year, 50 British reg­ular army troops, militia men and /olice officers have been kille by the Provisional IRA and its smaller, but deadly, offshoot, the Marxist-oriented Irish National Liberation Army. 
Mouotbatten, a cousing of Queen :Elizabeth II and a national hero, was the most prominent Briton to die at the hands of Irish nationalists since 1862. When ,assassins, lcilled Lord Frederick Cavendish, then secretary of state for IrQiand, in Phoenix Park. 
RmANDO'S 
BARBER & HAIR. STYLE SHOP 

1437 N. Ironwood Dr . South Bend 277-0615 
·sue, Ruthie, Kim Armando--stylist mon-wed-fri 8-5:30 tues-tnurs 8-8 pm sat 8-2 by appt. 
only sat-no appt. needed 


Choose the Thxas lnstrulllents calculator thats right for your major. 
When ~·ou're wm·king-in a ~pl'eializl'd liPid. ~·ou need a ><pecializPd cakulator. That':< why Texa:< lnsti'Uilll'nt:< dP:<ig-ll!'d tlw Sli111fi11e Bu:<iness Analwt-ll ,., l(w hu~i­net's and finanee ... anci th<· Sli111ii1"' Tl­50'" fm· science and maJh. Each prm·idl':< the tailored power and tht• rt>liahilit,\· .rou'll need a:.: ~·ou learn to soln· tht• prohh·m:.: you'll face a:< a profps:.:ional. And t>a('h has a ptice ;~-·ou'll appreciate a:.: a ~tudl'llt. 
Slimline Business Analyst-fl. Sleek LCD calculator with \'ersatile 
business capabilities. 

Solving financial p1·oblem~ with thl' Slimli11e Busine»l'l Anal~·st-11 ean makl' working with your old ealeulator s<•<•m lik<· pencil-and-papet· a1·ithmetic. The funetion:.: required to pel'f01m man~· common busi­ness, financial and statisticai ealculations are built in to help ,vou make quick, accuratt• evaluations of many complex husint•ss situations. 
Special financial keys are used to handI<• time and money problems such as com­pound interest, annui-W ,,.,.,,,. 
ty payments, mortgage ~~·~:.;:;
L "' loans, investment yields, ;;:~~;;• amortization schedules ~~:~· and more. .. ,..," 
Statistil'al and lim·m· n·g-t·l'~:<ion eapahili­til'~ pl·m·id<· tlw pml'l'l' .rou'll n<·Pd to hoil down data and automatieally-handl<· p1·oh­
1t·m~ ~ueh a~ ~all'~ and p;u·ning-~ fol'<•t·a,.;t~. 
l'mlit marg-in <·akulation~ <·oncPrning­cost. ~t>llinl! pri<·<· and marg-in ean h<• p<·r­fomwd •·apidl,1· wlwn an.1· two of tlw \·aria­hiP~ an• known. Otlwr fpatUI'<'>' inl'ludl' a four-fmwtion data l'l')!'i>'tl'r with ( 'on:<tant !\ll•mol',\' '" ft>atUI'<' that !'<'lain:< it:< t·ont<·nts ('1'1'11 ll'ilf'll flit• ('(1/C'ir/Uflll' is flll'll('r/ II/( 'l\1·11 miniaturt> hatt<'l'it>s prm·id<• up tot 1ro ,\'Pars of OJI!'I'ation innonnalu,.;t•. And T I',.; A I'D'" automatie pmn•r down f<•atlll'<' hPip~ pl'<'­\'t>nt aceid<•ntal hattt>l'\' ch·ain. 
Tht• Bu~im·~,-Anal~·:.:t-1 I. with dl'laill'd owlwr',.; manual and >'\ll'<h•-look rinvl walll'l with pockpts for noll·~. $-1:-~.oo*. · 
The Slimlint• Tl-511 pat·ks 611 power­ful fum·tions into a handsome. compact pat·kage. 
Th<· pm·kt>t-pm'lahlt• Sli111liltt' Tl-iiO is a 1'<'­markahl,\· poll'!'l'flll [,('[) slidl'-I'Uit• t·ak-ula­tm: Yl'l it's a~ thin as a Jll'lll'il and \H•ig-h,; only thl'l'l' uunet•s! 
Its fiO l'l'l'satil<• funetions ean h<'lp ,vnu hand I<• a wid<• l'ang-<' of enlll')!'l' math p•·uh­lems. Capahiliti<•s ineiU<Il' l'Otnmun and natul'allog-arithm:.:. Six trig-ononwtt·ie oper­ation~ that can ht• ppl'f(•rmt>d in thl'l'l' angu­lar modt•,.; !d<•)!t'<'<'~. radians or g-rads). 1\ro eon~tant nwmot'il's that t'l'tain their con­tc·nt~ t'l't'll wilt· II 1/ll'mlr·trlulol' i.• fiii'IICd of( 
And mon•. · · St·n·n huilt-in ~tati~tical funetion~ :.:im­plif',r tlw ta~k of boiling-down lat')!'l' ,.:pts of data point~ so you ean pl'l'form aceurate anal,\'st•s and 1h'aw n•liahlt• eonelu:.:ions. Th<• pm1·1·r of tht• Sli111/iut• Tl-iiO is made <'a~.~· to ust• h.1· 'ITs A< IS"' a1)!'t>hl'aie opl'l'at­ing-~~·~tl'm. whit·h pl·m·id<•:< l;i ~l'ts of pa­l'<•nthl'St'~ and aet•t•pt~ up to four rwnding opt>l'ation~. That nwans ~·oucan t>nt<•l' most Pl'ohlt·m~ ju~t as tht•.\',1'<' IITittt•n. left to l'ig-ht. '1\ro miniat un• hattl'l'i<•s rwm·idt• up to two ,\'!':II'S of normal OJl!'l'ation. And Tl's AI'I>'" automatil' JIOWPI' down fpatut·e ht•lps pl'<'l'<•nt aceidt•ntal hatt<'l)' drain. Th<• Slim/iut• Tl-;iO inelucfps a detailed ownt>r's manual and a durahlP vinyl 11·allet. $-tu.OO*. MakP SUI'<' I'Olll' lll'Xl l'aleulator has the sp<·<·ialilwd po.we•· t\1 handle the problt•ms uniqtw to ,\'om· major. Sl'l' the Busin<•ss Analn;t-ll and the 
4fJ

Sli111/int· Tl-f~tl'at ,\·our college bnokstm'l' m· nthe1· Tl cll•aler today. 
Texas Instruments technology-bringing affordable electronics to your fingertips. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 

INCORPORATED 
'\. 

All is quiet and peaceful as clouds hover "ver the campus. 
_fazz bands to hold auditions 
The Observer Thursday, Au~ 30, 1979 ~ pa~e 10 
While fishing in Georgia 


President fends off attacker 
WASHINGTON (AP) -There It was hissing, teeth bared and could have been anything." are fish stories and then there nostrils flared, as it headed So the president ordered an en­are rabbit stories, this is a straight for the president. largement ofthe photo. ''It was 
a rabbit, all right,'' said therabbit story. Carter drove it off with the 
It also is a president story, paddle. But when Carter told staff member, after looking at which is why there isn't any the tale of the aquatic attack · the enlarged photo. 
Another aide agreed. "It was apublished picture of the rabbit. rabbit, some of his. closest aides 
Or the president . .More on rhat scoffed. "Everybody knows killer rabbit,'' this aide said. 
later. ''The president was swinging
rabbits don't swim," said one 
It seems that President Car­former skeptic. for his life. " ter fishing near his home in The White House has refused 
The president had proof. A
Plains, Ga., last spring, was to release the photograph.
White House photographer had
attacked by a swimming, hiss­''There are just certain stories 
made photographs of the presi­
ing rabbit, which. made for his about the president' that must
dent fishing and fending off the 
canoe. forever remain shrouded in
bunny last April 20.

He beat the beast back with a mystery,'' said deputy press 
canoe paddle. Carter ordered a print of the secretary Rex Granum. photograph to show the doubt­
Carter was unharmed. There ers. Even that didn't convince
was no word on the fate of the 
them at first.
rabbit. 

The rabbit, which the president ''You could see him in theca­
Faculty

later guessed was fleeing in noe with his paddle raised, and 
panic from a predator, actually you could see something in the 
toward the canoe from which water," said the doubter. "But 
awarded

Carter was fishing in a pond. you couldn't tell what it was. It 
Auditions for the Notre Dame especially basses. Anyone with ) azz Bands and Combos will be an) cll.perience in rock or jazz held on Sunday, September 2nd · on electric bass or string bass at 1:00 p.m. m the Jazz Band will be especially welcome. Loft (opposite the Huddle). If further inforiDQtion is 
There are openings for all desired, contact Father jazz related instruments--trum­Wiskirchen, the Director of jazz pets, trombones, saxophones, B~nds in the Washington Hall pianos, guitars, drums and Band Office or at 7136. 
Molarity 
• 

District .fud!(e named to Board of T1·ustees 
George N. Leighton, U.S. district judge of the Northern District of Illinois, has been named to the Notre Dame Board of Trustees. 
Leighton entered Howard· Universiry in 1936 as a 24-year­old student whose formal edu­cation had ended withouta high school diploma. He was grad­uated with honors in 1940 and went on to Harvard Law School, from which he was graduated, after an interruption for Army service, in 1946. After two years as an Illinois assistant attorney general, Leighton started a law practice which was to become one of the nation's largest predominantly black legal firms. . 
In 1964 Leighton was elected judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County in Illinois. In 1969 he was assigned as appellate judge on the Illinois First District Appellate Court and the next year was elected to a 10-year term as a justice on that Court, a position he left in 1976 when appointed by President Gerald Ford to the federal bench. 
Leighton's appointment brings to 43 the number of Notre Dame trustees. 
by Michael Molinelli 

ACT\.ML.L'( MJTCU,~'VE GOT
1 
SOME VERY EX5P£NSIVE 

FURNISIIIN8S CDMIIIG UP. 'lttJ WILL DISPO.S£ OF 'lt1URS 
fellowships 

Two University of Notre Dame faculty members have been awarded fellowships from the American Council of Learned Societies for research projects in the humanities and related social sciences. 
Dr. John H. Van Engen, assistant professor of history, was one of 30 recent Ph.D. 
recipients  from  nearly  300  
applicants  to  be  awarded  a  
fellowship.  The  title  of  his  

research project is ''The Life and Works ofRupert ofDeutz." 
Dr. Elisabeth S. Fiorenza, associate professor of theology, will continue research on ''Exegetical-Historical Commentary on the Book of Revelation.'' She was one of 69 faculry members to receive fellowships for periods of six months to one year. 
The American Council of Learned Societies is a private federation of 43 national scholarly associations devoted to the advancement of humanistic studies in all fields of learning. The fellowships are funded by grants from the Carnegie Corporation of New York, Ford Foundation and the National Endowment for the Humanities. 
Buy Classlfleds ftom 
The ·Observer 


:ARMY ROTC PROVIDES 
: merit scholarships-up to $20,000 Illi leadership development Emanagement training 
*

i adventurei employment opportunity 

Graduate from Notre Dame as an Army Officer 
CALL(219) 283-6264 

-~ 
• l 
J 
I 
The Observer-SportsBoard Thursday, Au~t 30, 1979 -pa,ge 11 J 
. ~ ' I 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Baseball 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
E1at  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Pittsburgh Montreal  n 71  54 54  .588 .568  3  
ChicagoSt. Louis  70 69  59 60  .543 .535  6 7  
PhiladelphiaNew York  65 52  67 n  .492 .403  12Yz 24  
West  
Cincinnati  n  57  .575  
Houston  75  58  .564  1'12  
Los Angeles San Francisco  61 59  71 73  .462 .447  15 17  
San Diego Atlanta  57 53  n 79  .425 .402  20 23  

~ednesdiY'smults 
Atlanta 5, New York 4 
St. Louis 5. San Francisco 1 Montreal 5, Houston 3 Cincinnati 7, Philadelphia 6 San Diego 3, Chicago 1 Pittsburgh 4, Los Angeles 1 
Thursday's games St. Louis (Vuckovich 12-8) at San Fran­cisco (Whitson 5-Sl Chicago (Lamp 9-7) at Los Angeles (Hooton11-9). n Oniy games scheduled 
East 

w  L  Pet.  
Baltimore Milwaukee Boston New York Detroit Cleveland Toronto  86 80 n 71 72 68 42  44 54 52 58 61 65 90  .662 .fliT .fliT .550 .541 .511 .318  
West  
California  71  62  .534  
Kansas City Minnesota  70 68  62 63  .530 .519  
Texas  63  70  .474  
Chicago Seatile  57 56  74 78  .435 .418  
Oakland  43  91  .321  

Wednesd1y'smults Baltimore 4-7, Minnesota D-4 Oakland 6, Toronto 4 Cleveland 5-2. Seattle 4-1 New York 7, Texas 5 Detroit 2, California 1 Boston at Chicago, ppd., wet groundsKansas City 18, Milwaukee 2 
ThursdiY'S games 

GB 
8 
8Yz 14Yz 15Yz 19Vz 
45 
Vz 2 8 
13 15Yz 28Vz 
Seattle (Parrott 12-8)  at  Toronto (Moore  
3-5) Texas  (Medlch  5-6)  at  Boston  (Torrez 

13-9), n Minnesota (Koosman 17-10) at Baltimore (Flanagan 18-7), n California (Ryan 13-10) at Cleveland (Barker4-4), n Kansas City (Splittorff 13-13) at New York (Tiant 1G-7), n Oakland (Morgan 2-7) at Detroit (Petry 5-4), n Milwaukee (Caldwell 14-5) at Chicago (Wortham 13-11), n 
Sports Briefs~_____, 
Pla_y~ff tix printinR beRins 
NEW YORK (AP) Baltimore, California, Cincinnati, Pitts­burgh and Houston were given permission by Baseball Commissioner ·· Bowie Kuhn Wednesday to print tickets for the leasue championship playoffs and the World Series. 
Balumore and California are the division leaders in the · American League,while Cincinnati and Pittsburgh lead the National League divisions. 
None of the five teams was involved in postseason play last year. California and Houston never have been in a league championship playoff or World Series. 
The commisstoner' s office said additional authorizations for printing tickets will be given should the situation dictate. The leasue championships begin Tuesday, Oct. 2, and the 
_'World Senes on Tuesday, Oct. 9. 
Ticket pick-up continues 
Football tickets will be distributed to all Sophomores today until 5:00 p.m. at the ticket sales window at Gate 3 (north dome) of the Atheletic and Convocation Center. Freshman may pick up their tickets tomorrow from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
RuR~'Y club meets toda_y 
There will be an organizational meeting for all t~ose interest­ed in playing Rugby, this evening at 7:00p.m. m room 2D of La Fortune. If unable to attend the meeting, call Jim Bowers at 232-5121. 
Football 

• • • Spirit 
THIS WEE ICE NO IN THE N.F.L• 
! [continued from page 12]
SUUniiY 
Detroit at Tampa Bay, n 

tournament and the Winter 
Sunday 

Sports .Festival. Cross Country 
Atlanta at New Orleans 

skiing, skating, and snow sculp­
Baltimore at Kansas City 

ture are just a few events
Cincinnati at Denver Cleveland at New York Jets 

planned for the festival. Dallas at St. Louis 
As springslowly ebbsits way in­
Green Bay at Chicago 

to South Bend a softball
Houston at Washington 

tournament and Olympic Week· 
Miami at Buffalo New York Giants.at Philadelphia 

will headline the calendar. 
Oakland at Los A/IOeles 

Olympic Week will pit individu­
San Diego at Seattle 

al against individual and team 
San Francisco at Minnesota 

against team in a fun but 
competitive spirit. Teams will
Monday 
Pittsburgh at New England, n 

be organized to represent each dorm at Saint Mary's. 

NBA votes to limit coacl1es 'movements 
NEW YORK (AP) -The National Basketball Associa­tion's Board of Governors voted to limit the movement of coaches and trainers, during games, to a 28-foot area bet­ween the baseline and a hash mark to be placed 19 feet from midcourt, Leauge Commis­sioner Larry O'Brien an­nounced Wednesday. 
''There was concern that coaches and trainers were roaming too far away from their benches and interfering with the functions of the scorers' table," said O'Brien. 
The new rules permits coaches and trainers to go to the scorers' table only during timeouts or between periods, and then only to sheck stat­istical information. Violations of the rule will result in a tech­nichal foul called against the 
offending party. 
[continued from page 12] 

come to Los Angeles • 'within a month" to inspect the Coli­seum and go over plans to refurbish the downtown arena for. the 1984 Olympic Games when, the supervisor said, it again will become "the best stadium in America.'' 
Harn said Robbie "is reallv 
[continued from page 12) • 

Central except that the west has the Rams and they should win enough games to get back to the playoffs and lose to Dallas. But the Rams need a few things to insure thatrtheir annual-.cakewalk through the division won't get sidetracked. Coach Ray Malavasi needs to establish either Pat Haden or Vince Ferragamo as his starting quarterback. I'd go with Ferragamo but maybe that's why I'm not coaching in the NFL. The retirement of all-pro Tom Mack will hurt the offensive line--probably more than the loss of middle linebacker Isiah Robertson will upset the defense. Bob Brodzinski will take over for the 
dissident Robertson and that may even help the ' Rams. The Atlanta. Falcons will be looking to return 
1 
---··--In varsity competition Saint 
Mary's will be competing in the 
newly-created Division III cate­
gory. Division III schools offer 
0-10 percent of scholarships 
based on athletic ability. 
Division II schools offer 10-50 ~percent athletic scholarships while Division I offers over 50 
percent. 

Saint Mary's belongs to no lea­gue or conference, thus they • will compete as an independent school against various Diyision II and Division III OJ?ponents. 
An added attractton to this year's agenda begins February 29, when Angela Athletic Facil­ity will be the sight of tl w Divi&ion III State Basketball 1 Championships. 
The list of]erry Dallessio' s and Erin Murphy's accomplish­ments continue as they leave 'summer camp' and plunge into their 'rookie" seasons head-on. 
But with their creativity and motivation, Saint Mary's athlet­ic fever will continue to expand daily. 
• • • Dolphins 
tired of the Miami City Com­mission and he thinks he is being pushed around. There is a very good chance the Dol­phins will move West." Earlier this year, Harn met with Robert Irsay, owner of the Baltimore Colts, but discounted 
the latter's comments about possibly moving here. 
. NFC;/· 
to the _playoffs and I'm betting -they'll be successful. Quarterback Steve Bartkowski has a great arm and, if he can remember that he has running backs as well as receivers, the Atlanta· Falcons might win the west. Defensively, they are solid in every department with such stalwarts as Fulton Kuykendall, Greg Brezina and Robert Pennywell renrrning from last year's 9-7 squad. . 
San Francisco and New Orleans shquld fight for the cellar spot with that honor remaining up for grabs until the waning weeks of the season. Neither team shows any sign of improvement from last year but the Saints may have the edge only because San Francisco keeps trading away talented players that they can't afford to lose. 
Predicted order offinish: 1. Los Angeles; 2. Atlanta; 3. New Orleans; 4. San Francisco. 

' 

ThUrsday, Au~ust 30, 1979 ~ pa~e 12 
NewSMCAD 


Dallessio stresses spirit 
by Beth Huffman all publicity of Saint Mary's make-up the Intramural Com­Women's Sports Editor athletics. mittee while the remaining at To aid Dallessio and Murphy in large members make-up the 
Catch the Spirit! No, this is not their scheme. they have estab­Intramural Committee. 
a medium screaming at a lished the Student Athletic The intramurals and recreation seance. This jargon is the new Council (SAC). The council, as programs have already taken a motto of the Saint Mary's defined by Dallessio's office, leap forward, with new pro­
athletic office. Spearheaded -by serves the ''purpose ofdevelop­grams already on the calendar. Jerry Dallessio, who is in his ing and maintaining high­Flag football, co-recreational first year as the Director of quality athletic programs for volleyball, a jogging club, and Athletics and Recreation; the student of all interest and an exercise and we1ght control campaign was initiated to instill abilities." prosram havae been slated to enthusiasm and active support The SAC will act as a vital link o begin in September. · for Saint Mary's varsity and of communication between the A monthly newsletter, com­intramural sports, along with students and the athletic office. plete with an up-to-date calen­individual enJoyment of recrea­Publicity for all sports, varsity dar, will be published by the tion. and intramurals, will also be a SAC to keep students informed 
Dallessio, a Notre Dame grad­chief responsibility of the coun­of coming events. In keeping uate who replaced former Ath­cil. This group will also assume with the athletic office's m~w letic Director Kathy Cordes, is the responsib!lity for organizing theme. the newsletter is en­not an entirely new face on and coordingating non-varsity titled Spirit.Saint Mary's campus. Last recreation. Along with its other Ping-pong, P<?ol, and golf tour­year he served as the Belles duties the SAC will function as naments are JUSt a few new ·basketball coach while teaching advisors to Dallessio and Mur­in tram urals already planned. at Saint Joseph's High School. phy. Also slated are spring and fall 
:Assisting him in his drive for Kari Meyer, the commissioner tournaments for tennis and spmlt'd. tllllled sports will be of athletics appointed by Saint racquetball. Erin Murphy, a recent graduate Mary's Student Body President The second semester will be of Lewis University in Illinois. Pia Trigiani, will chair the SAC. highlighte~ by a basketball Murphy brings With her valu­Joining Meyer on the council 
[continued on page 11)
able experience working with will be· the Commissioner of the Chicago Recreation Depart­Public RElations, Mary A. ment. Shannon, Sports Information 
Relyin8 on the hope that Director Cheryl Sweeney, "more athleuc awareness and dormitory athletic directors involvement will brin<> support from each of Saint Mary's five 
I LA hopes to pirate llilphins 
for varsity teams.· Dallessio residence Halls and four mem­has set two major goa.-,·Jr his bers at large. Shannon, office this year. The fir.,t aim of Sweeney, and at-large member LOS ANGELES (AP) -Kenneth Commission, said Wednesday with Dolphins owner Joe Rob­Dallessio's pl;:~n is tu improve Karen Hertz form the council's Harn, chariman of both the Los he was confident the Miami bie, who has been havin~ intramurals while .-rep two is to Publicity Committee while the Angeles County Board of Su­Dolphins would move here in disa~reements with city offici­simultaneously boost the over-remaining at large members pervisors and the Coliseum 1980 or 1981. als m Miami and has threat­
He told a news conference that ened to move. if here were a betting man, ''I Harn refused to give details of 
Predictions -1979 would bet heavy'' ' that the his session with Robbie but said Dolphins would become Coli­it was "a good, productive seum tenants. meeting. We had fine rapport,
The Los Angeles Rams move and he told me that he was not
Eagles, Lions, leadNFC 
their National Football League sluffing ... that he was serious team from the Coliseum to about coming to Los Angeles. '' 
I guess I've always been a little skeptical of Anaheim in nearby Orange Harn has headed the search tor the so-called "experts" who make their re.Puta­•County. in 1980 and the Local a professional football team to tion (as well as a comfortable living) predicting arena IS seeking another NFL come to Los Angeles. who will win a football game. It's not the Frank team to replace them. Harn said Robbie promised to predictions that bother me--everyone's entitled Harn said he held a meeting in to his opinion. What irritates me 1s the way they LaGrotta San Francisco on Tuesday night [continued on page 11] pompously proclaim that their predictions are one-hundred percent "on the money." They 
problems as well. It seems head coach Jacknever make a mistake ... or at least not before the Pardee is committed to wiping out former coach season. 
McEnroe,Nastase win b~fore
George Allen's legacy of old men and no draftConsequently, I try to avoid making ''absolute choices. So Pardee is cutting and waiving until sure thing" predictions. But, with NFL football his pen is about to run out of ink. But he better a little more than 48 hours away, I will stick !DY 
downpour hits U,S, Open
make sure he has the youngsters to replace such neck our far enough to say that this is the way talent as Harold McClinton, ·chris Hanburger.
the three drvisions of the National Football andBill Kilmer, Some of the old-timers were
Conference look like they might come out. NEW YORK (AP)j ohn McEnroe as the others scheduled for
consistent winners, and, until Pardee can make
Maybe. got through his opening round Wednesday afternoon would be 
that same claim, he'd be wise to keep a little
NFCEAST match again"t Pavel Slozil of finished Thursday morning. 
experience around the nation's capitoL 
I remember seeing Philadelphia play Wash­Czechoslaovak1a 6-1. 6-2, 6-4 Those matches included one be­
St. Louis did better than anyone expected last 
ington on a Monday night football game in 1976, Wednesday in the U.S. Open tween 11th-seeded Brian Gott-·
season--especially the people who thought Bud
and I said to myself then that the Eagles were a Tennis Championships. . fried and fellow American Van
Wilkenson would never win an NFL game. Will,
team of the future. I don't think that anymore. McEnroe, playing in highly Winitsky.
I never said that but I will say that he'll never
Because the Eagles' future is now. Coached humid conditions, finished his The Wednesday night matches 
win an NFC East title--or, at least not for a long
by_ crafty Dick Vermeil, the E_agles are coming work before afternoon showers between third seeded Tracy
time.

off a 9· 7 season complete w1th a post-season started. Those showers washed Austin and Argentina's Ivanna
And that will still be a few years before th«!
r,Iayoff appearance that many detractors labeled out much of the afternoon Macruga, and between ftfth
New York Giants. 
'dumb luck." And it's true that the Eagles got program and all the night seeded Roscoe Tanner and
Predicted order offinish: 1. Philadelphia; 2. 
a few breaks--but they took good advantage of action. Australian John Marks, also
Dallas; 3. Washington; 4. St. Louis; 5. New
them, and that, some say, is the difference Evonne Goolagong Cawley, were to be played Thursday.
York.

between the good teams and the great ones. returning to the U.S. cham­Eddie Dibbs, the ninth seed, Match Vermeil with quarterback Ron Jaworski, piOnships for the ftrst time was among the few to finish
NFCCENTRAL

receiver Harold Carmichael, halfback Wilbert since 1976, was battling little their matches Wednesday. He
This is an interesting division in that there are
Montgomery and defensive superstar Bill known but tough Kay McDaniel struggled and got by hard-hit­
five teams that can win it but none of them really
B~rgey and the prospect of the Eagles edging Wednesday. ting Tim Wildison 4-6, 2-5, 7-5,
should, and very few people care who does. Call
out perennial Eastern champion Dallas doesn't They were interrupted twice by 6-2, 6-3.
it a toss-up, but take a look at these facts: 
seem so crazy after al}. rain. The second time, they Hie Nastase, who was prohib­
1) Minnesota needs a quarterback.
But the Cowboys will be tough (what's new?) tried to resume play after a ited from playing last year
2) Chicago needs a quarterback.
again. Coach Tom Landry has had more than his 45-minute delay but were while under suspension for
3) Green Bay has a quarterback.
share ofinjuries and retirements. All-pro safety chased back inside by another oncourt misconduct, beat Fin­
4) Green Bay needs a defense.
Charlie Waters is expected to miss the season fast hard downpour. McDaniel land's Leo Paliln, who retired
~) Detroit has a defense.
with a knee injury while Ed "Too Tall" Jones had won the first set 7-6, with a pulled leg muscle after
'6) So does Tampa Bay. 
has quit to become a pro boxer and Jethro Pugh Goolagaong had taken the sec­losing the first tow sets 7-5, 7-5.
7) Detroit has an offense.
has just {>lain quit. ond 6-4 and was leading 4-2 in Nastase, who is still carryin~
Predicted order of finish: 1. Detroit; 2.
Offensively, Dallas still has Roger Staubach the third. on his love-hate relationship
'fampa Bay; 3. Green Bay; 4. Hinnesota; 5.
and Drew Pearson, although there has been no At 6:30p.m. with the rain still with spectators with his temper
Chicago.

definite word yet as to when all-pro halfback falling but some sunshine be­and nts wtt, is set to play Tony Dorsett will return from a toe injury ginning to break through, of­McEnroe, and another temper­
NFCWEST

sustained when he dropped a mirror on his foot. ficials announced that the Gool­mental player, in the next
This division is almost as bad as the· NFC 
(That's the truth, I swear!) agong-McDaniel match as well round.
(continued on page 11]
Dallas' old rivals, the Redskins, have plenty of. 










