... Music reviewpages 10-11 

VOL. XIII, NO. 
Housing
•

rematns uncertatn• 
by Michael Onufrak 
Edmund T. Pr~ce, director of Housing, said yesterday that the Housing Office is still "trying to get it all together.'' Price was referrin~ to to the housing dilem­ma wluch has troubled Notre Dame for the past few months. 
In an interview yesterday, Price stated that he is awaiting the final compilation of current statistics which will reveal whether a lottery will be neces­sary, who will have to move off-campus and what the demand for on-campus housing will be for the 1979-80 school year. 
Price admitted he had the bulk of the needed statistics, but he also stated that he has not yet received housing cards from overseas students and other special cases. Housing cards for the majority of Notre Dame students were due Feb. 2. 
Price denied the rumor which had suggested that the hold-up in the administration's announce­ment was tjle result of a com­puter foul-up. 
''There has been no computer trouble which I know of,'' he said, adding that the hold-up on the official University announce­ment was simply a matter of statistics which had not come into the Housing Office by yesterday. 
"Hopefully, we will have a decision by Monday, maybe sooner,'' said Price when pressed to set a definite date for the University's announcement. 
Price said he realized the student body's concern over this serious situation and reaffirmed his _pk·dge to analyze incoming stattstics and expedite the admin­istration's decision as soon as possible. 

On(l winter reflections penetrate the solitude ofthe Administratt"on Building. [photo by Bob Gzltj 
On Donahue show 

Hesburgh discusses issues 
by Gresory Solman Stajj Reporter 
University President Theodore 
M. Hesburgh discussed a variety of issues relating to Catholicism and higher education with talk show host and Notre Dame alumnus Phil Donahue on his syndicated television program yesterday. 
In confrontin~ Hesburgh with. the parietals 1ssue, Donahue 

HPC to administer 'parietal ' survey 
by Tim Sullivan StaffReporter 
Carroll Hall representatives are devising a survey to deter­mine precisely students' senti­ments on the parietals issue. The Hall Presidents Council (HPC) plans to administer the survey in the residence halls by Friday. 
Dr. Pat McCabe, Counseling Center director, and Chuck DelGrande, HPC chairman, are assisting with the formulation of the survey questions. Student Government is financing the survey. 
''The main purpose of the survey," according to Tim Coonan, Carroll Hall resident, "is to gather the most accurate indication of student feeling pos­sible. ' ' Coonan indicated that the survey would more effectively indicate student suppon for an anti-parietals movement than an original plan to schedule an open meeting in LaFortune. "The administration cannot ignore the bare statistics,'' Coonan explained. 
According to Andy McKenna, Student Body president, ''The Student Government sym­pathizes with Carroll Hall's vtew­r,oint but will not endorse a 
Break Parietals Night.' " McKenna stated that this type of protest would be ineffective due to potentially heavy penalties on involved students. He also indicated that he did not believe campus-wide sentiment was strong enou~h to suppon such a protest at this point. 

Alumni Hall residents recently completed a hall council survey similar to the one presently being devised by Carroll Hall. To the question, "Do you favor chan~ing the parietals struc­ture? ' 196 residents responded "yes," 43 said "no," and 23 abstained. To the question, "Do you favor a formal protest such as 
[contt"nued on page 6] 
fulfilled a _promise he had made Tuesday rught when speaking in Washington Hall. Numerous students asked Donahue to bring 

· their complaints to Hesburgh on his show the next day, and Donahue agreed. ''The students want unlimited visitation,'' Donahue pointed out during the one-hour show. ''That is to say, most of them do." "Well, that's the big, noisy thing you hear all of the time,' ' Hesburgh replied, adding, "I don't think you can get through life without having restrictions. You have restrictions all through your life, and I think that it's good to stan learning a few of them in school. " Donahue continued, ''How would you respond to that stu­dent who would say 'Father, we're adults now. You're treat­ing us like children. After all, we are over eighteen, and isn't giving us a cuifew to suggest that we're not capable or mature enoush to make these kind of decis10ns?''' "I think it's an effon to have some guidelines." Hesburgh answered, adding, "And I think most youngsters want some guidelines. "Most people don't care what kids do,'' Hesburgh coQ.tinued. "We do. We care about the kind of people they are becoming, what's happenmg in their lives, what kind ofvalues they have and how they are learning to live with rules. Because we all have to live with rules. I have to live with the rules." Later, Donahue inquired, "Are you communicating with the stu· dents on these issues? I mean, it is a very hot item, is it not?" "It's fairly hot," Hesburgh 
concurred; adding, "It's been hot all the time. Because you put men and women in the same campus in the same place, and they are all very attractive youngsters. I just say that one of the greatest things that we can do is draw a few parameters ... say, 'Here are a few rules, live with them." 
Hesbur~h was asked about student drinking on campus, and said that to check I.D.'s, as Donahue had suggested, would be an "impossible task. " He added that students should ''learn how to drink, without getting drunk all of the time." 
I could belong 
to everybody 
Hesbur~h also discussed the university s addmissions policy and S.A.T.'s and called Notre Dame "probably the most nation­al university in America today. '' 
Donahue, for the second time on his program in the last month, deplored the condition of the tower high-rises, particularly Grace Hall, where Donahue stayed when here for his reunion. The subject had arisen on an earlier program that explored coeducation with Northwestern University students as guests. 
Hesburgh quickly quipped, "No," when asked if he had ever wanted to ~t married. "I felt that becommg a priest, I cop.ld belong to everybOdy," he com­mented, adding, "And the price of belonging to everybody is 
· d
[conttnue on page 6] 


Farmer protest continues in D.C. 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Jeered and booed by angry farmers, Agricul­ture Secret~ Bob Bergland softly apologized yesterday to anyone msulted by his sugges­tion that some farmers demon­strating for more government aid are ''driven by just old-fashioned greed." 
Bergland did not withdraw his remark, however, and he reiter­ated his opposition to increasing crop price su)?pons and insisted that 1978 ' m vinually every respect ... was a good year'' for rural America. 
Outside, the city's worst snow­fall in years made conditions even rougher for those of the 3, 500 American Agriculture movement farmers who were sleeping by their tractors in their compound on the Mall, west of the Capitol. 
Nonetheless, they paraded 130 tractors around the Capitol, with police permission, filling the air with the dense smell of diesel smoke. 
A group of schoolchildren stood outside the Supreme Coun and waved as the slow "tractor­cade" rolled by. 
More than 300 farmers crowd­ed into the House Agriculture Committee hearing to hear Berg­land. Rep. Richard Nolan, D­Minn., told Bergland that he had been "~ready shocked and dis­turbed' by the secretary's re­marks Tuesday. 
"You owe them an apology," Nolan said. 
The farmers roared agreement and one jumped to his feet, demanding, "Have him do it right now!" 
Rep. Thomas S. Foley, D­WA, chairman of the panel, threatened to have the man ejected. 
Bergland did not apologize at the time, but noted he had not ascribed selfish motives to all farmers. "Of course, "he said, "there's a little greed in all of 
us.'' 
Half an hour later, ho~ever, when a member of the committee apologized to chief Agriculture Department economist Howard Hjon for remarks to him at a hearing last year, Bergland of­fered his apolo~ for ill feelings generated by his words. 
"I want to take this opponuni­ty to apologize to anyone who has felt insulted by anything I've said. It was not intended,'' he said. 
The protesters did not seem to notice. 
The fuss concerned a remark Bergland made in a television interview Tuesday. He said some farmers from west Texas to Nebraska were in ''real trouble,'' then added: ''There are others who have made bad business judgments, paid too much money for land. I know some people in that category. Others are seek­ing publicity and others are 

' driven by just old-fashioned 
·,greed.'' 

..,..,..., __.......... 
_ 




:···News in brief
...... / . . 

·p.ot._.'s.forces gain victories 
. . . 

BANQKOl<, Thailapd (AP)-Th~ ~errilla ,fighters qf toppledPrelll).er Pol·Pot clauned new vtctones ~amst. the Vtetname!?e Y5!Sterday.· Reporters who entered cambod.ian waters srud .Yietn~mese. gunboats were shelling the southwes~ern Cambodian co~t, a stronghold of Pol ~ot forces.. The radi~ of the·Pol Ponegime, believed broadcast10g.from lts ally China, cla.Uped' n_!!arfy 300 Vi~tnamese we~e kill~d and 19 tanks destroyed 10 recent fight10~ along national highways and ~ear provincial capitals. Pol Pot s government was ousted1an. 7 10 a rapid push bY. the Vietnamese and their Cambodian allies who setzecf.several key cities and the capital ofPhnom Penh. 
.Bostl!orth predicts failure 
· WASiiiNGTON (~)-A top a~strati9n inflatiqn fighter sajd yesterday that, without pubhc cooperation\ President Carter s "voluri~acy'.'wage and pnq: guidehnes wont work. :Tm ready.to admit·nght now, that under a yolunt¥Y progran:h if ~vetyone wants t<i he and che11-t you can t catch anybOdy, . satd ~¥ry
Bosworth, .director ot the Council on Wag~ and Pnce Stabthtv. But Boswor.th added that lack of cooperati~n would undermine e~en a J?landatory progr~ of wage and pnce controls, )Uld ~e · ctted evidep.ce ofbroad b1:1s10ess and public sup~rt for Carter s program.. ·''.An anti-inflation program only workS ifthe people of this cOuntry want the program to work,'' he told die House Government .Operations Subcommittee on Commerce, Consumer and'Monetary Operations But he added that the council's most effective tool in entorc10g the guidelines will be the requirement that ·con:ipa.oles certify that tfiey are in compliance in order to obtain ·goveinment contracts of $5 million or more. 

Weather 

A winter storm watch is in effect today and tonight south of Lake Michigan. · A . 50. per~ent chance of snow dev~loping_ this afternoon, cont10wng wtth a 70 percent chance torught. Heayysnpw,.' .amount~ are possible a1ong--apd just souTh of--Lake 
MiChigan. · Highs 10-15.. Lo~ torpght 5-10 below zero. 
Becommg partly cloudy Fnday wtth higbs 5-10 above. 

3:30 I:lrn, CO~ COURSE, j.c.l. for disk or tape files continues, 
1:30 ·_pm, CO~ COURSE, j.c.l. for disk or tape .files continues, 114 CCMB 
· 3:30 pin, .LECitlBE SERIES, "the raising of lazarus: a jewish vi~", by charles primus, ND ART GAlLERY. 
4 pm; WORKSHOP, choosing ·a major program, a major decision, STAPLETON WUNGE 
4 pm, ·SEMINAR, "photoredox and photosubstitu· cion in rnacrocyclic complexes of iron (III) and iron (II)", by dr, g.j. ferraudi, RAD LAB 
6 pm;. WA1ER POLO, smc students and faculty, 
·REGINA POOL 

· .7 pm; WORKSHOP,· information/job search, ex. board room LE MANS HAll 
7 pm,· VOllEYBAll C11NIC, for smc faculty and 
studentS, .ANGELA Ann.ETIC FACIIJlY 
7:30 
pm, casting for players for the senior atts ·festival, NAZZ 

7:30 
pm, I.ECIURE, "the poem as icon: the :elationship between tenor and vehicle in the religious and nature poems of william eersom", by vicky dill, UB. WUNGE 


9pm, MEETING, for those interested in the migrant 
farm viorkers union, LA FOR1UNE BAI..IROOM 
12: U am, WSND-FM, nocturne nightflight, hosted by bob diemer, 89 FM . 
Thursday, February 8, 1979-page 2 

Carter a.dministration considers Sunday gas station closings 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The Carter administration is considering for­cing gasoline stations to close on Sunday as part of a program to reduce oil consumption and build public awareness of the ener~ crisis prompted by instability 10 Iran. 
Energy Secretary ] ames Schlesinger told the Senate Ener­gy Committee yesterday the ad­ministration still hopes voluntary measures will be enough, but a package of mandatory controls is being studied. 
He ruled out the possibility 
H~sburgh 
JOffiS 


committees 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president, has been appointed to President Carter's Commission on the Holocaust which is charged with recom­mending a suitable memorial in the United States of that tragic historical event. Chairman of the commission is author and Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel. 
Notre Dame's president is also among the leaders of a newly formea bipartisan ~;itizens' lobby to press for ratification of the Strat<:_gic Arms Limitation Treaty (SALT) between the United States and the Soviet Union. 
This coalition is co-chaired by Hesburgh, Clark Clifford, former Secretary of Defense and presi­dential advisor; Henry Cabot Lodge, former U.S. senator and ambassador to the U.N.; Marjorie Benton, a U.S. delegate to the recent U.N. conference on disarmament; Townsend Hoopes, former Undersecretary of the Air Force, and Charles Yost, former U.S. ambassador to the U.N. 
Hesburgh is a director of the American Committee on East­West Accord which has an­nounced support for SALT, as wellas ofthe Council on Foreign Relations. 

~The Observer_ 
Night Eaftor:Sherry Mummen Asst. Night Editor: Mary Pat Ellis Copy Readers: T'1m "Action Reponer'' 1oyce, Mare Ulicny lAyout Staff: John Smith EditoriallAyout: Tom Behney, D.K. Features lAyout: Cindy ''Cos­mo" McKie! Sports lAyout: Mr. Bill (M.P.) Typists: lisa DiValerio, Tom (100 w.p.m.) Pipp, Beth ("I Love Joe Evans!) Willard, Pete ("I Don't Get No Re­spect") McFadden 
Early Morning Typist: Kim 
Convey 
Day Editor: MB Moran 
AdlAyout: Matt DeSalvo 
Photographer: Bob Gill 

that gasoline rationing would be part of a mandatory conservation program. 
Saying he has seen no indica­tion "thatthe slide ofIran toward chaos has been arrested,'' Schlesinger said the cutoff of oil from that Mideast country is forcing the Urited States to draw on reserves to make up part of the 900,000 barrels a day once imported from Iran. 
''Unless we are able to restock for next winter, our inventories could be dangerously low,'' he said. 1 
The secretary said oil con­sumption could be reduced by more effoctive use of new sup­plies of natural gas, elimination of unnecessary driving and ad­herence to the 55-miles-per-hour speed limit. 
Beyond that, he said several mandatory measures are being considered. 
"We do not know the extent to which we sould need to turn to mandatory measures if, indeed, ~ey are required,'' said Schles­10ger. 
He said the administration is drawing up a plan now and "by AJ?ril 1, we should have ftrmly in mmd, within this government, what we are prepared to do." 
"I think the Sunday closing may be a necessary pan of the kind of package we may have to put together," he added. 
In response to questioning by Sen. Paul Tsongas, D-Mass., Schlesinger acknowledged that Sunday closings, which the ad­ministration could order under existing law, would be a means of heightening public awareness of the need to conserve as much as a method of reducing gasoline consumption. 
Other possibilities under con-
Engineering & Computer Science Majors 
DON'T MISS TALKING TO THE HUGHES RECRUITER VIStnNG ·YOUR CAMPUS SOON. 
Contact your placement office for interview dates. 
Ir------------------~ 

! HUGHES-! I 
I I 
L------------------~
O.....,a-wwfdllitlt.._.,. 
~j~ AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F ~~~j
.~:=:=:=:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:~:·:•:·:·:·:•:;:;:~:;:;:::;:;:;:;;;:;:;:.;:.:·!·!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!·:·:·:·=·=·=·=·=·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·;·;·;:::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Meet &>meone New 
at 





THE· RAMROD 
free admission with 
college ID every thursday $1.50 pitchers 
sideration are: -Setting limits on heating and cooling in public and commercial buildings. -Limiting the number of parking places. -Barring non-essential lighting such as advertisin~ signs. -Pressing for additional conver­sions from oil to coal in power plants and other industrial facili­ties. 
Schlesinger said the nation now has a 70-day supply of oil in reserve. At the time of the 1973 Arab oil embargo, the normal reserve was 54 days, he said. 
Asked when he would advise the president to declare a state of emergency, Schlesinger replies, "As we reached 60 days, one should get quite nervous.'' 


Clarification 
The floral service announced in yesterday's Observer is not spon­sored by the Notre Dame Student Union. Gary Luchini, Student Union services commissioner, said that a student has applied for a contract to sell flowers. However, John Reid, director ofStudent Activities, has no yet officially approved the contract. 
Luchini said that, even if Reid approves the contract, the floral service will be run by an indivi­dual student and not sponsored by Student U~on or Student Activites. 
The student who ftled the contract told The Observer yes­terday that the service had been approved and was sponsored by Student Union. 
The Observ~r ]USPS 598 9201 Is published Monday through Friday ex­

MARDIGRASDEALERSCHOOL 
cept during exam and vacatioa periods. The Observer Is published by the studenb Df Notre Dame and Saini 

* dance floor * OJ Buddy King
7:00 lioly cross (nd) 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year 1$10 per 
every Fri G Sat night
7:45 carroll 
semester] from The Observer. P.O. box 
* pool table 
Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second 
8:30 dillon 
1:lass postage paid. Notre Dame. In· diana 46556. 
511 S. Mich St. 
9:15 fischer-pangborn (in fischer) 
The Observer Is a member of the AIIOCiated Press. All repraductlon 

(downtown) open till 3am.
10:00 off-campus (in Ia fortune) 
rights are reserved. 


The Observer Thursday, February 8, 1979-page 3 

The clouds combine with the sunset to provide a powerful image over the Noire Dame golf course. [photo by Bob Gill] 
Khomeini 's supeorters gain




strength throughout Iran 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP)-Backers of said the provisional government Tehran sports stadium to giveAyatollah Ruhollah Khomeini will try to operate with civil him backing. 
were reported in control of sev­servants loyal to Khomeini. The The rally was attended mainlyeral city governments yesterday provisional government is to by middle-and upper-class on the eve of demonstrations arran~e a referendum on a Iranians, and was punctuated byintended to drive home the constitution that would make Iran slogans backtng Shah 
religious leader's claim to the an Islamic republic. Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, who reins of this troubled nation. was forced to leave Iran Jan. 16
Cities where administrative
In Washington, Energy Secre­by the Khomeini-led masses
and some police functions now
tary James Schlesinger told the opposed to his rule.
are run by Khomeini backers
Senate Energy Committee the Men and won .:n with tears in
included Isfahan, Qom, Shiraz
Iranian crists could leave their eyes chanted ''Long live the
and others especially in southern
American oil inventories "dan­shah" and knelt in homage to the
Iran, reports from those cities
gerously low'' next winter and monarch. Said one woman: ''I
said.

force controls, but he said he love my king arid ifI had a little
In the western city of Sanandaj
does not anticipate gasoline blood in my body I would ~ive it 
an armed group attacked a
rationing. for my king.''
television station Tuesday night,
Iran sold about 900,000 barrels of oil a day to the United States killing a guard and destroying 
before strikes hobbled production cars in the parking lot, state radio Billiard last fall. 
said. Yesterday, 8,000 supporters of 
Oil engineer Mehdi Bazargan, Bakhtiar' s shah-appointed tourney named by Khomeini -to form a government gathered at a provisional government, slatedannounced he will outline his program and possible name min­The annual campus-wide bil­
ISters on Friday. Support migrant liards tournament will begin Khomeini 's rival government Monday. The contest is straight to the shah-appointed adminis­pool, with the winner being the
farmworkers?
tration of Prime Minister first to reach 100 points. Each Shahpour Bakhtiar got support contestant pays for his time. from striking civil servants in the There will be an informational Only one game is to be played. 
Justice Mimstry and in Bahtiar's and organizational meeting for all Registration for the competi­own office and from the staff of people interested in supporting tion is being held through Sunday the official Pars news agency the Migrant Farmworkers' in the poolroom under the yesterday. Movement in Ohio tonight at 9 Huddle. First and s~cond place 
Khomeini aide Ibrahim Yazdi p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. trophies will be awarded. 
If You're Tired Of The Cold . . Warm Up At The Nazz !!! 
Open Stage 9: 00-12 :00


Thurs-

come in and show us what you've got musically that is!! 
Friday Brian McHale & Friends (guitarist) 9:30-1 :30 

Sat Tony Aquilino Bill Floriano Julia Perry 9:30-1.:30 


Final total eclipse of century to occur 
[AP) -The two Chinese by looking directly at the sun. astronomers who got drunk 4116 Thousands are jockeying for a years ago and forgot to scare off good position when the moon's the serpent swallowing the sun shadow touches land ftrst at 8:12 would get a kick out of Russ a.m. at Agate Beach, Ore., just Cox's knockout cocktail the west of Portland, then sweeps a "Total Eclipse." path 180 miles wide up the 
They also might enjoy watch-Columbia River and across much ing the sun go black on a of Oregon, Washington, champagne-sippmg "Flight to Northern Idaho and North Dakota Totality'' high above the into Canada. In other areas of Columbia River gorge. the United States, it will be seen 
If the Chinese astronomers, as only a partial eclipse, or named Hi and Ho, were still of varymg degrees. around, they could be at Cox's For those who want a view Bar in Richland, Washington, on above the clouds, the Seattle Feb. 26, when this country's ftnal Science Center has chartered an total . eclipse of the century Alaska Airlines 727 jetliner to occurs. take observers -at $115 to $135 
Cox, manager of the Hanover each -on a champagne flight House, invented the "To~al 40,000 feet above the Columbia Eclipse," a mixture of run, gin, River Gorge. sloe gin and orange juice, for A tourist "J.gency in Berkeley, armchair astronomers who want CA. , has already sold out its to celebrate the ftrst such eclipse '' Moonshadow Expeditions,'' visible in the United States since which will leave San Francisco March 7, 1970. and Los Angeles on Feb. 23 for a 
Hi and Ho won't be there, of resort on Hecla Island off 
course, since their names appear Canada. Ms. Wendy Weaer, the 
in the earliest surviving wntten tour coordinator, said 60 persons 
record of a total eclipse of the have paid $445 to $475.50 for the 
sun. It says they lost their heads trip, but she could have sold 
to the royal executioner in 2137 many more tickets. 
b.c. for partaking of strong spirits ''The response has been unbe­and neglecting to bang drums lievable," she said. "We are and shoot arrows at the offending already making plans for next serpent, which the ancient year's eclipse in Mrica." Chinese blamed for an eclipse of But the biggest hubbub is in the sun. Goldendale, WA. , a farming 
Americans have more scientific community of about 3,300, which explanations for an eclipse, but has the only public observatory in some of their rituals seem almost the path of the eclipse. Thou­as strange. Indeed, a kind of sands of visitors are expected, solar mania grips humankind the town's four motels have been when the moon blocks our view of booked up for weeks, and the the sun, and everybody wants a mayor is allowing campers to front-row seat, even if mean park on the school grounds. scores will permanently damage Not to be outdone, the mayor their eyesight, as 121 did in 1970, [continued on page .5) 
********************************* 
-·~ 
.........~ ----­
., 

* *
! put in a : 


i* * Valentines i* * 
~ wed. Feb.I4th ~

Day !personal i 
* ~ for your sweetie I!~ * 
t special greeting section in the ! ! OBSERVER ! *wnte. message here, pay at the observer office * * *
* *
* *
*----------------------------* 
* *
* ---------------------------· * 
*

* ---------------------------· ~­
* *
*---------------------------·* 
* *
!----------------------------*
!----------------------------E 
*·------------------------~--*
* . *
* -----------------------------* 
; rates found above todav 's classified ads ; 
*******************~************** 

The Observer Thursday, February 8, 1979 -page 4 
Oriental Express Restaurant 

Professor admits to hypnotizing 
Featuring 

Cantonese 

BRANDENTON Fla. [APl -A
Chinese, Vietnamese white-haired professor with a& Amencan Dishes 

30-year teaching career at stake faced his superiors Wednesday to explain why he shouldn't be ftred 
115 Dixie Way N. 
"Carry out or Dine in" for hypnotizing students after he was ordered not to.

272-6702 

Arlie Lincks, an engineering teacher, says he used hypnosis to 
improve his students' grades. 
Yesterday he sat on an audi­torium stage at Manatee Junior 
ARmANDO'S 
BARBER & HAIR 

College in this quiet Gulf coast city facing a five-member board
STYLE SHOP 

of trustees who will decide his 1437 N .Ironwood Dr. 
fate. More than 100 people attended 
South Bend 

the hearing, many of them stu­dents applauding the professor
277-0615 

until they were shushed by presiding trustee ] ohn Blue. 
Sue, Ruthie, 

The school claims Lincks was grossly insubordinate for persis­
Armando-stylist 

tently practicing hypnosis during the last seven years despite warnings and disciplinary action. 
mon-fri 8-5:30 

School President Dr. Wilson Wetzler, saying hypnosis
sat 8-2 

shouldn't be taught by unquali­
by appt. only 

fied persons, wants Lincks ftred. Lincks, who has a master's
sat-no appt. needed 

degree in education, doesn't 
introdUcing ourmost valuable asset! 
We're Northrop Corporation Defense Sys-, temf Division, a recognized leader in the­
research, design and manufacture of sophis­
ticated electronic countermeasure equip­
ment and ·systems. 
The people you see pictured here -and many others not pictured -are a part of our pro­fessional team. They are very, very special . here at Northrop. They're outstandingly talented. . .creative. . .determined. . .and extraordinary people...and they continue to help us maintain our world-renowned position. 
Why take the time to tell you about ourdro­fessionals? Very simply, we are prou of their accomplishments. . . . .they make Northrop what it is today. So, how about it'? Do you, as an engineering professional, seek a challenge? 
If you do, and your interest is in High Tech­nology Engineering, investigate the potential of a career with Northrop: 
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS A Northrop representative will be interviewing at your campus on 
FEB.15 
See your Placement Officer for further information 
We offer superior salary/benefits packages, an en­
J vironment conducive to professional achievement and creative freedomh and exceptional opportuni­ties for growth. Nort rop is an equal opportunity employer m/f. 
NORTHROP CORPORATION Defense Systems Division 600 Hicks Road, Rolling Meadows, IL 60008 
NORTHROP 
deny his actions but maintains that the orders to stop came only from Wetzler and were not policy because the trustees hadn't acted. He says he's studied psychology so as to be fully qualified as a hypnotist. 
"There isn't any college policy. There never has been and only will be ifyou decide to make one," Lincks' attorney, Don Hadsock, told the board. 
Floyd Price, Wetzler's attorney, disagreed. "Evidence will show there was never a doubt in Mr. Lincks' mind that he was 
400 apply for Free University 
by David Rumbach ing to Bill Caldwell, co-director of Senior Staff Reporter the program. , Although the deadline for Free University's formal registration 

Approximately 400 students was yesterday, interested stu­have signed up for Free Universi­dents who have not yet registered ty classes this semester, accord-may do so by calling the Student 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 
We are currently seeking Electrical Engineers with BS through PhD to participatein the conception, develop­ment and manufacture of high technology circuits and systems in the areas of elec­tronic countermeasures, electro-optical/infrared countermeasures and micro­wave receivers. Creative de­sign engineers are needed for the areas of digital, ana­log, microwave integrated circuits, microprocessor ap­plications1 software develop­ment, m1crowave systems, high efficiency power sup­ply systems and sophisti­cated analog and digital sys­
tems  design  and  develop­ 
ment.  ·  
'  

not to use demonstrations of hypnosis on campus,'' he told the board. 
"We think the question is 
. simply whether he is guilty of gross insubordination and if so we ask for his dismissal ... despite whether he's a lovable professor and whether he does a ~ood job.'' Hypnotists are not licensed by the state but anyone who per­forms hypnosis must work either for a physician or dentist or under their supervision, says Dr. George Palmer, executive direc­tor of the Florida Board of 

Medical Examiners. 
Price told the trustees Lincks was placed on administrative probation during 1973-74 for practicing hypnosis, but "that didn't stop him." • 
"In '74 he ~ain ignored policy from the prestdent against dem­onstrations, and he was relieved of his continuing contract for February 75-76," price said. 
In 1977 he began teaching a non-credit course on hypnosis, resuming demonstrations on campus. He was suspended two months ago. 
Government offices before 5 p.m. today and either Caldwell or Jolm Eardley (1155) thereafter. 
Skydivmg 116, with 80 pro­spective students, is this year's most popular course, Caldwell said. Other popular courses include Polish language and Culture 102 taught by Rich Hunter, Beginning and Interme­
diate Auto Mechanics and  121  
Job Interview Skills.  
Caldwell  described  the  re­ 

sponse to this semester's Free University curriculum as''a little less'' enthusiastic than in the past. "We usually get around 600 people to sign up. There was some _problem distributing course descnption booklets at Saint Mary's, and we think maybe that might account for the drop (in students interest),'' Caldwell sta­ted. 
Students will be notified in case of class cancellations or changes in time or meeting places, Caldwell said. 
O'Meara announces 
•

promotton 
Peter C. Grande has been promoted from assistant to asso­ciate dean of the Freshman Year ofStudies, it has been announced by Prof. Timothy O'Meara, University provost. 
Grande, who received his doc­torate in educational psychology and guidance from Notre Dame in 1965, has been involved in teaching, research and adminis­tration in his 24 years at the University. His teaching and research has focused on mea­surement and evaluation, and as an administrator he has served as director of the Office of Institutional Studies, director of admissions and, since -1971, assistant dean of the Freshman Year. 
He has assisted in the develop­ment of the Freshman Year's extensive counseling, guidance testing and credit-by-examina­tion pro~rams. In addition, he is conductmg a career pattern study of Notre Dame students. 
A native of Pennsylvania, Grande received his undergra­duate education at Kutztown State College before coming to Notre Dame in 1953 for graduate work. He is a past president of the Northern Indiana Personnel Guidance Association and of the Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocesan Guidance Council. He served as editor of the Indiana Personnel and Guidance ] ournal from 1967-70. 


The Observer Thursday, February 8, 1979-page 5 
La-w school plans lecture series 
by Pat Mangan either in professional sports or Sports and has consulted withStaff Reporter have been drafted by a pro U.S. Senator Gary Hart on pro­team.'' 

posed anti-truSt legislation con­''Not only should they find cerning professional athletics. 
As early as the 1890's, law themselves capable of negotia­Sobel currently teaches Profes­found its way into professional ting a contract," he continued, sional SJ?<>rtS law at the Southern sports when Hall of Famers "but they should be equipped to Califorrua Law School and practi­Monty Ward and Buck Ewing, defend their clients against the ces law in Beverly Hills, where he dissatisfied with their contracts, outrageous abuses of disrepu­is counsel for college athletic
decided to break them. Appear­table agents." 
conferences and athletic direc­ing before New York and federal Cleveland explained that the tors.
judges, they rri~gered several area of athletic representation in decades of htigatton. .the legal profession was still in its 
Since then, the courts have "embryonic stases" of develop­become an arena for debate on ment, and that ts an area which the application of corporate and "sorely needs well motivated, contractual law in player dis­highly qu~~ed professional in­putes. However, in spite of volvement. almost 90 years of law suits, Rice said that the recent 
1 

arbitration, negotiation, and stream of litigation was basically legislation, sports legal problems over contract disJ?utes, but that have only recently been ad­negotiatin~ techniques, the eth­dressed as a distinct le~al field ics of solicttation, and workman's known as "Sports law.' compensation were also impor­
The Notre Dame Law School tant issues. has recently instituted a Sports The ftrst lecture is planned for . Law course, and according to Friday, Feb. 9, at 3:30 p.m. in Professor Charles C. Rice, coor­Room 101 of the law School, and 
1

dinator of the course, the class will feature Attorney Lionel So-was designed to ' 'inspire interest bel. Cleveland described Sobel in this particular field." as the leading expert in the fteld 
In conjunction with the course, of Sports Law and encoura~ed a series of public lectures dealing anyone interested in the subject with contemporary sports legal to attend. problems has been planned. Sobel is the author of Profes­
Vilma S. Martinez spoke last night at the Law School on the topic ofthe Mexican-American legal defense fund. [photo by Granville E. Cleveland, coordina­Stonal Sports And The Law, and 
tor of the Sports law Seminars, has written several articles for
Bob Gill} 
stated, "Recent graduates from the Bar Association. He has law schools are fmding them­testified before the House Select selves faced with clients who are Committee on Professional
Tennis tournament begins on Friday 
by Ellen Buddy will be on sale m LeMans lobby Saint Mary's Editor between 11 a.m. and 12 noon every Monday, Wednesday and , Friday until Feb. 20. Molloney
Shari Molloney, off-campus will also sell tickets at hercommiSSioner, announced a off-campus residence, Apr. 2A,round-robin tennis tournament to Notre Dame Apartments. Fortake place at the South Bend more information, contact her atRaquet Club on Friday, Feb. 23, 234-1996.
between 7 and 11 p.m. "In the past we have had little response and would like to see 
Potential 
greater participation at this event,'' Mollont:"y said. 
Tennis and raquetball courts candidates to meet 
will be available, as well as the use of saunas and jacuzzis. Beer, wine and a variety of munchies There will be a mandatory will be served, according to meeting for all potential Student Molloney. Body President/Student Body 
"It is an opportunity to meet Vice-President candidates tomor­other off-campus students,'' she row at 10 p.m. in the Student said. Government offices on the 
The event is open to all Notte second floor of LaFonune. Dame-Saint Mary's students. Candidacy petitions will be distri­Tickets are $7 per person. They buted during the meeting. 
Ir-------------------------~ 
# 

.. .eclipse 'I The Student Umon Record Sale 1I 
[continued from page 3) 
on the sidewalk with her son, of Helena, MA. , is invmng Howard, who was 2 at the time. I RECORDS PRICED AT COST I 
everyone in the United States to ''The chickens went to roost her city, "the Queen of the and, when the moon passed over I I Rockies,'' to witness the event the sun, the chickens came out which won't have a rerun until and the rooster crowed," Mrs. 
1 February 19-23 From 12-5 1 
the year 2017. Spalding recalls. 
Mayor Kathleen Ramey said Mrs. Zola Brooks, now 87, the eclipse will have its longest recalls that she and most of the I I duration in Helena, tossing off other townspeople watched the 
I I
the figure 36 minutes and 8 eclipse from atop a buqe, a 
seconds with a sly smiile. flat-top hill. I Second Floor Lafortunel
Scientists say, however, it ac­''A weird feeling came over me tually will last only 2 minutes, 36 when it happened," Mrs. Brooks seconds. recalls, "Something I'd never 
While Mayor Ramey says she experienced before or since.'' II Room 1-D I can't promise cloudless skies, In Washington's tri-cities of 1 she sa.td, ''I'm guaranteeing we Richland, Kennewick and Pasco, I I won't have smog." hotel reservations also are going I #_4 4, I 
The eclipse will be nothing new fast. Scientists say that area is I ._~.~~. Ito a few Goldendale residents, one of the few metropolitan who were there when it happened regions along the eclipse path in the last time, on June 8, 1918. the U.S. with a reasonably good 
I 1bis will be the only time the records I
Mrs. Wilma Spalding, now 85, chance of clear weather on is one of them. She remembers eclipse day, a 50 percent chance how she smoked some glass to as compared with 20 percent in I · will ever be priced this low! ! ! I
look through and took a chair out Portland. 
1--------------------------J 



--~----~ -----------~~------~-------~--~-................._____,._ 
•.
The Observer Thursday, February 8, 1979 -page 6 
., 
., 
., 
~ ·. 

johnjannazo [pictured on the nght] receives commandfrom Carl Aumen at the AirForce ROTC ceremony. [photo by Bob Giflj 
OSCO Drug loses liquor permit 
INDIANAPOUS [AP] -A drug The Liquor Board voted 3-0 to store chain here was denied reject renewal of the Osco Drug renewal of its liq_uor permit Store licenses which had been yesterday because 1ts pharma­challenged by the Indiana ceutical operations are secondary Package Liquor Store to other retail sales. Association. Osco Liquor sales 
An attorney for the drug stores have been regarded as stiff said the decision by the Marion competition to package stores for County Liquor Board could have almost a year. statewide 1mpact. The package store assocation, 
r Fox's., 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS JEWELERS SINCE 1917 
Town & Country and Concord Mall, 10-9 Blackmond 's, daily, g:3o:.:s· Special 15% Discount On 

announctnq th€ (jRanb Op€ntn(j o~ 
THE YELLOW SUBMARINE 'a great taste sensation' 
foot regular long 

HAM.............................. 1.60 2.30 SALAMI.......................... 1.45 2.10 SPICED LOAF.................. 1.35 1.90 COMBO CUTS.................. 1.55 2.20 ROAST BEEF................... 1.70 2.50 CORNED BEEF................ 1.85 2. 75 MEATBALL..................... 1.40 2.10 PIZZA............................. 1.40 2.10 
SUPER:SUB "SPECIAL".... 2.95 -----------------------4 
• ALL SANDWICHES SERVED HOT OR COLD ANlJ INCLUDE: CHEESE, LETTUCE, TOMATO, 
SWEET ONION, MUSTARD AND YELLOW SUBMARINE DRESSING! 
open Fri &Sat til 1 am phone in order in advance for Quik Pik-Up Service 
call 272-4453 
18109 state rd. 23:(across from fat wally's) 
represented by executive vice president Warren Spangle, con­tended that Osco failed to qualify under state pharmacy laws which require a drug store to set aside a prescribed area for the sale of drugs. 
Osco counted that the pharmacy act contradicted state (ABC) regulations. 
] .B. King, attorney for the Indiana Retail Council, of which Osco is a member, said an appeal will be filed with the ABC. Kin~ said Spangle's appearance indi­cated that the package store association will seek similar ac­tion statewide to lessen its com­petition in liquor sales. 
King also said that ifthe same standard were applied to taverns operating under a restaurant 
license,  they  also could  be  in  
jeopardy of losing  their  liquor  
permits.  

The standard in question re­quires a permit holder to do at least half its bu.siness in other than liquor-related sales. 
In handing down the decision, county liquor board Chairman Harry, Wick said: "It is my opinion that the eight Osco Drug Stores do not do a substantial portion of their bu.siness at their premises as a proprietor ofa drug store as it required of them by the existing laws and regula­tions." 
Teng criticizes US policy on Iran 
TOKYO (AP)-Chinese Vice Pre­mier Teng Hsiao-ping, fresh from a trip to America, told Japanese leaders yesterday the United States showed a lack of direction on Iran and mishandled the crisis there, a spokesman reported. 
Teng told former Premier Ta­keo Fukuda that the United States has shown indecision and that the UniteJ States' handling of the crisis lacks direction,'' Fukuda's secretary Yoshiro Mori told reporters. 
Teng stopped in Japan for two days of talks Wlth ] apanese leaders after his four-city tour of the United States. He called on the former premier because Fuku­da was in office when the Chinese-]apanese pea-ce and friendship treaty was signed last year. 
The Chinese official told Fuku­da he thought the Ru.ssians were already in Iran and that they would surely become a destabili­z~g influence on the area, Mori srud. 
Iran has been embroiled in more than a year of political turmoil directed against the 
authoritarian rule of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, who was forced to leave the strategic oil-rich nation last month. 
. The secretary quoted Teng as saying the United States "is allowing the Soviet Union to place a lot of pawns on the world's chessboard" and "things 
[continued from page 1] proba~ly not to belong to any­body. Hesburgh talked at length about the Pope's proclamation in Puebla, Me~ico. He also responded to questions from the studio audience on the subjects of the costs ofhegher education, the recruiting of minorities, the number of women and the possi­bility of "cult groups" at Notre Dame; women and the priest­hood, and divorce among Catho­lics. On a lighter note, Hesburgh was asked by Donahue about whether there is a conflict between Christian ethics and ' 'running up" the score in athletic competi­tion. ''Your awesome University of Notre Dame Fighting Irish bas­ketball team beat the Wildcats of Northwestern this season by a score of 101-57," he reminded Hesburgh. "Doesn't that em-

Iaux receives award 
Kenneth F. Laux, a Notre Dame senior majoring in physics andJapanese language, has been­selected by .the ] apanese Ministry ofEducation to receive a "Mombu.sho Award" for gradu­ate education. Thirty of the prestigious awards were pre­sented this year to both· under­~raduatc; and ~rad~~e scholars m Amencan uruvers1t1es. 
Lame, ofChest~rfield, Mo., will receive an 18-month renewable scholarship to the physics depart­ment of a state university desig­nated by the Ministry. It includes transporation and field study expenses, residence, tuition and a monthly allowance of$730. 
Laux was a participant in the University's foreign study {>CO­gram in ] apan during his sophomore year. 
College Bowl 
sets deadline 
· th 
The deadline £or entenng e College Bowl competition is Feb. 9th. Team application forms and game rules are available in the Student Union office. Anyone in search of a · teani can call Ed (2129). 

cannot be allowed to go on this way." Teng called for a withdrawal of 
U.S. troops from South Korea, but also urged Washinsron to check Soviet expansiorusm in other parts of the world, Mori said. 
"Should the U.S. troops leave South Korea, they will still be near by, so it will not affect the stability of the region ... But it would be betteF for both Taiwan and South Korea, if the troops were withdrawn,'' Teng was quoted as sayin~. 
Teng also cnticized Vietnam and Cuba, saying that the United States cannot simply allow Cuba to increase its influence in Mrica. 
The Chinese vice premier told ] apanese Prime Minister Masa­yoshi Ohira that some restraint must be exercised over the activities of Vietnam. 
After the ] apanese media described Teng as having called for the punishment of Vietnam, Ohira told opposition parliamen­tarians, "I don't think he had military action in mind.'' 
A new Cambodian leadership came to power in the wake of a Vietnamese-backed invasion of the country last month, and 
China  claims  that  the  Soviet  
Union  was  behind  Vietnam's  
action.  The  Chinese  sought  

recourse in the United Nations Security Council but the Soviet Union vetoed the resolution. 
Hesburgh 

barrass you? 
"Phil, that happens occassion­ally,'' Hesburgh responded. "I've never really known any of our coaches to really pour it on, but here is the problem that you have this year: Phelps happens to have a strong bench. These guys are eager to get in, to prove that they are better than the guys they are playing. And when he puts them in, he can't say go in, but don't shoot any baskets. There's no way on earth that you can train kids to be competitive and then just shut it off. " 
"I also saw the Notre Dame­Navy game, and I thought Coach Devine could have substituted sooner,'' Donahue persisted. 
Hesburgh appeared prepared to answer that question, too. ''They 
substituted against u.s in the Cotton Bowl this year, and they lost the game. And they were 22 points ahead of u.s," he said. 
• Survey 

[contz'nued from page 1] 
that proposed by Carroll Hall?' ' 124 residents responded ''yes,''8' said "no '' and 56 abstruned. 
Morrissey representatives passed a resolution last night which read, ''The Morrissey Hall Council disapproves of the re_gu­lations on!arietals as stated in duLac, an supports Carroll Hall in their effort to abolish parie­tals. '' Ken Kadleck, Morrissey president, stated that the issue was "taken very seriously" by the members of the hall, and that they supported ' 'any organized 
· campu.s-wide. acti9n' to ac::rp.on­strate the antl-)2arletals posmon. Kadleck statea that the HPC should be the body to organize such action since tliey "have the widest contact to the residence halls." 
Thursday, February 8, 1979 ..·pag~ 7
EditOrials 
Third World: struggle of a people 
Editor's Note: The following is the ftrst pan of CADENA, the Third World Column. It deals with the goals of the migrant farmworkers in their present struggle. Pan II will appear on the editorial page tomorrow. 
''Maybe someday we will get bet­ter wages and be treated like humans." 
A line from Henry Fonda in The Grapes of Wrath? No, the quote above is not from a movie. It was spoken in Ohio, not in California, by a real Mexican­American, not a famous actor, and the issue is tomatoes, not gra~es. But the stories are very sirrular. Both involve the strug­gle of migrant farmworkers to earn a decent wage and to be treated like human beings. You might say this story begins where The Grapes of Wrath left off. 
Mi~rant farmworkers are now unioruzing in their homes in the south to prepare for the coming tomato season in northwestern Ohio. Under the leadership of the Farm Labor Organizing Committee (FLOC) and with the help of the United Farm Workers, farmworkers are planning to continue the strike again growers and canners in the tomato industry that began last August. At that time, 200 of approximately 8000 tomato pick­erks walked out of fields in northwestern Ohio, leaving the croll to rot. The farmworkers are asking for a wage increase, better housing conditions, and a three­way contract system involving farmworkers, growers and the canneries, among various other demands. 
The most important issue for the individual farmworker is wages. At present, a workers is paid a piece rate of anywhere from 19-2~ cents per 33 pound hamper of tomatoes. The farm­workers are asking for 3 5 cents per hamper and a minimum wage of $3.2~ per hour when the piece rate does not add up to at least 
$3.2~. 
One rough estimate is that a healthy young person can pick up to 100 hampers in a day, but this involves at least 10-12 hours of work. At 2~ cents per hamper and minimum wage , a farmworker can earn a maximum of about $55 in a day. But when factors such as weather, size and quality of the crop, age and physical condition of the indivi­dual worker, and the sheer back-breaking character of the work are taken into account, the average amount earned in a day by any one picker is considerably less than $5~. 
In discussing the wage in­crease, one farmworker said, "I'm not saying we want to be as rich as they (the growers and canners) are. We just want better w~es." 
In addition, the farmworkers are demanding a work guarantee 
of at least 28 hours every two weeks. This provision would ensure some mcome for the farmworkers when rains prevent President points out, ''All of us negotiations with the canneries 
them from working; it is already a know the only time they'll recog­are the key to any longterm 
state law in Wisconsin. Because nize us is when the crop is in the stability for the farmworkers' 
the farmworker is technically field.'' Even if individual grow­union and its members. As one 
"employed" when it rains and ers offer wage increases to farmworker organizer put it, 
therefore ineligible for aid such farmworkers, as some did last ''FLOC handles the canneries. as food stamps, a wet season summer, the farmworkers will I'm just helping to get people." means no work, no income, and refuse to accept any contract in Getting people means organizing no means of buying food. which the canneries do not also meetings in the south to let prole Another key issue for the participate. people know about the union in 
farmworkers is housing. State To back their demands, at a Ohio and its demands. Many regulations for housing in mi­rally in Toledo on Jan. 28, the leaders in the farmworkers will grant camps are often tgnored. farmworkers' union and the return to the Ohio area this The scenes of the migrant camps FLOC announced they would summer to participate in the in The Grapes of Wrath were launch a massive bor.cott against strike and to encourage any very true to life. One room all Campbell's, Libby's, and migrants who do come to the area 
shacks house entire families Nestle's (a parent company to to leave the fields in support of water is ofte available only a; Libby) products. These are the the strike. centrally located taps, and dirt major companies contracting How do the farmworkers see 
and fllth are the ever-present with growers in the area. themselves and their work? ''My facts of life. In addition to Libb}:"s and Nestle job is very important,'' said one 
Other demands include a four products, many subsidiearies of farmworker at the rally. "It's month medical coverage plan, Campbell's aQpear on the boycott just that I'm not getting paid transportation payment to and list. Some orthese are Franco­enough for it." He said he could 
from the workers' home states in American~yepperidge Far.m, take no pride in factory work, 
the south, and payment to crew Swanson, v-8, Bounty, Rectpe because as he put it, "You can't leaders for the use and main­pet foods and Vlasic. eat automobiles." tenance of their vehicles used in For those involved in the hauling workers and tomatoes.k organizing and boycott, P1e effort When The Grapes of Wrath 
But recognition of the farm­is two-fold. On the one hand, was showing on campus two workers' union by growers and wages and housing are imme­weeks ago, viewers saw a little the canneries is a problem. As diately important to the farm­history. But there's another Baldemar Velasquez, FLOC worker. But on the other hand, Grapes of Wrath showing this 
P. 0. Box Q 
Minority objection to ' on Astology ' 
Dear Editor: 
Once again the minority popu­lations of Notre Dame and St. Mary's have been subjected to the 'humor' which is characteris­tic of the white, middle-class student body. Obviously, there must be an unwritten law that if you want to get a augh, just mention blacks, ) ews, homo­sexuals, or some other ~roup which does not fit the stattstical norm of what a Notre Dame student is. 
When I ftrst saw the cartoon under Pat Byrnes' "Intellectual Livin~·', I failed to understand its mearung. Then after close scrutiny, I realized that one of the animals was supposed to be black---thick lips, fuzzy hair, black shading, get it? Such humor is very outdated, but I guess that since it was Groundhog's Day, Mr. Byrnes felt that he should have contri­buted something. Ho hum, we could have been spared (and should have been). 
Next, in reading the "On Astrology" anicle, I was amazed that he would still try such humor. In trying to get a smile from his readers, Mr. Byrnes decided to throw in ethnic and sexual jokes as well as racial ones. He mentioned blacks and watermelons, Jews and money, and homosexuals. Maybe he thought that after reading these 
season in Ohio, and there we can see history live and in colOr. The. movie attests to the fact· that the farmworkers' struggle has gone ·on for years and years.· bm the' movement in Ohio is proof that that struggle continues .. Here we spoke of only a few c~ties in' northwestern Ohio. But. a vic.tory . there would have wides_eread repercussi?ns, especiaJly if .the efforts to mvolve the la:rg~ cor-. porations in the contracts· is successful. It could be. along, 
'long struggle. But as one· woman farmworker at the rally said, "Maybe when my kids grow· up they can say, 'My mother worked in that. My mother helped get
better wages.' " · · 
This week's Third World column was submitted by Cadenda. 
Note: There will be an organiza­~onal meeting tonight at 9 p.m. m LaFortune ballroOm for anyone interested in supporting the farmworker's boyco!f. 
-Now what? Which Notre Dame 
student or group of students is 
going to be the ftrst "sucker" to 
say,"Hey, look Admiriistration! 
I'm breaking one of the rules," 
and then let them make an 
example of you? 
I feel that the 
parietal regulation shoUld be 
abolished, although I do believe 
that quiet hours should be en­
forced, but I don't see the use of 
the hall governments abolishing 
it. They don't enforce it, the 
administration does. The hall 
governments won't face the con­
sequences, the individual student 
will. It's fine for the student 
body to take a ftrm stand on the 
issue, but let's think this through 
and act responsibly not like the 
little kids that can't get their way. 
I commend our hall govern­ments for actin~ on the problem, but I think they re heading in the wrong direction. The admini­stration will not -can not -abolish P.arietals now. It would looks as if they were forced into that position, and they wori't allow that to happen. They have to make the decision, we can't and I think that this action may cause more delay. 
I hope that the administration will soon see that the Notre Dame student body is mature enough to handle their own social lives, and will abolish parietals without being backed into a corner. I also hope that our hall goverrunents will review their decisions and handle this dilemna in a mature way. 
Robert Bact'c Planner Resident 

jokes, his readers woUld be 
rolling on the floor in paroxysms 
of laughter. Then in their 
weakened state hey would not 
notice the weakness ofhis article. 
Somehow he overlooked Indians and Chicacnos; but he may have thought that the other groups were funny enough~ The only reason that I finished the article was to see if there was some point in his inclusion of such statements; there was not. Also, I was curious to see whether or not there was any mention of Poles, Irishmen, Italians or Catholics. There was not be­cause the majority ofNotre Dame students fall within these groups, and Me. Byrnes did not want to offend them (which mi~ht be why he used "Negroes" mstead of "blacks". It is all right, most prefer black). 
While there may not be many ) ewish people on campus, the fact that Me. Byrnes felt it necessary to make such jokes s~ems to show a preoccupation wtth these r.eople. It is not a matter of 'out-of-siht, out-of­mind'' but that only in numbers does a group get any considera­tion ofits feelings. Maybe he will say that his article was a satire of such attitudes; if so, "You, sir, lacked clarity and so missed the point." Chances are, he did not think before he wrote the article. If this is true, I find it fitting that his article came under the head­ing of "Intellectual Living". It reflects the intellectual level of too many students when it comes to the subject ofgroups which are different from them. The only intellectual acknowledgement which they give is in some dirty, stereotypical joke (ask a Grace 
resident if he has a copy of a ''Nig~er ~pplication for Employ­ment which was on the bulletm board about a year ago). Or maybe even worse, they will make some trite statement which is merely a paraphrasing of something which they heard in a sociology class. 
The point is, I am not tryin~ to condemn Mr. Byrnes; he JUSt happens to be a venient scape­goat. It seems that such humor and attitudes are alive and well on this campu; otherwise, Mr. Byrnes would not have written such an article. Some people may say that I am being oversen­sitive. I believe that while I may be overreacting since the J"okes were only a small pan o the article, there is a need for someone to do so. The problem is not my having written this, but the fact that I had to. I am not asking for an apology; that would be merely more words, probably) without any true conviction be­hind them. What I am doing is expressing my view, not to try to change any attitudes (I am a realist), but to show that there are some peole out here listen­ing. And we do care. 
Name Withheld 
Prove maturity 
with parietals issue 
Dear Editor 
So certain hall governments have decided to abolish parietals 

either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD 
reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Spons Editor ............ Ray O'Bnen &x Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calctm Features Editor . . . . . . . . . Chris Stewart Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Langhenry Photo Editor .......... ,Doug Chnslian 
The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mills 
per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem· Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cac~? Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin 
Universiry of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Samt Mary's Editof ......, FJ/en Buddy Business Manager ........ john Tucker 
Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam· News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ &b Rudy 
reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 
_The Observer_ of 
~ -----­

The Observer -Editorials Thursday, February 8, 1979 -page 8 
Carroll Hall resident clarifies stand 
I am a Carroll Hall resident and the standard ar~ent against Remember change? I think the step must be taken in order for us gettinf; rid of parietals is a bad 
considering the recent flurry of parietals may be mvoked, ''What founders ofour country thought a to procede; we need a confmna­thing if it has never been tried controversy over the Carroll Hall can be done after 2:00 that can't little bit about it too. Maybe tion ofhall unity. Ifsomeone has here? Certainly there would be Council's move to abolish pa­be done before 2:00?" well, that's a bit dramatic, but it does further suggestions, let us know. confusion at first as things 
rietals, I would _like to explain, what can? Ifa couple is goins to get my point across. All we need is support--a strong, change, but with cooperation it clarify, and suggest a few things. have intercourse, it can cenrunly If parietals are abolished, it united, and universal support. could be done. Some halls could be done in fourteen hours. But doesn't mean that the university Represent your sections truth­still have _parietals, others could
First, let me make it clear mat anyway, aren't the problems of will fall apart. It will still be a fully and well or you may fmd have 24 hour visitation, andI, personally, am totallY. against roommmates best left up to the C~tholic university, the guidance yourselves out of office after the others could set their own stan­parietals. I just do not like them. 

roommates to be solved, or at wtll still be there. Moral values next election. dards. From now on there could 
Secondly, ~ reference to the least shouldn't they be solved on may be instilled within us, but What we advocate here at be a small explanation to fresh­also recent talk about a campus a lower level than involving the they should not be forced upon Carroll is not necessarily a total men of their choices of livingwide ''break parietals night,'' the · whole campus? us. Being able to have a friend in abolition of parietals, but what quarters. I personally was not 
administration need not worry, it the room as long as the person we really want is the chance for told that such a thing as parietalsAnother ar~ent for parietals 
doesn't need to happen. What likes should hel~ to promote ourselves to decide. It should be existed before I came here.
is that they msure quiet hours.
we here at Carroll are trying to maturity, by allowmg responsibi­a matter for each of the indivi­My own personal suggestion is 
Then, why have parietals on
invoke is an intelligent and lity and decision making abilities duals within each hall to decide that Carroll Hall should be al­
weekends, if quiet hours are not
hopefully positive response to the to develop, not create a disregard what restrictions they want on lowed a trial period in which we
enforced and do not apply to
question ''Why are there pa­for a system with too many rules. their own communal lifestyle. I would be allowed to make our
weekends? Logically following, 
netals?" 1bis campus wtde In the meantime, I'll be waiting think the administration would be own decisions, through a hall
parietals should not be enforced
breaking of parietals would be a for more and hopefully better suprised at how intelligent and vote, perhaps for the rest of this
or apply to weekends if quietlast ditch protest used in order to arBU;ID~nts !or panetals from the mature we really are. Please, we semester. Then next year, or thehours aren't and don't. During
force the issue to a head. administration. need all the support we can get. end of this year, we can review
part of the time that quiet hours 
Without responsible action on So hall councils and section If there are any brave faculty how the trial period went and
are in effect, visitation is allowed
both sides now, it could happen leads, you are wondering what to members out there who will and then go from there. I really do
in most halls. Are these
I. soon. do, you want Carroll to lead the can support us--if you agree with think the administration would be
times any less quiet? Again, just way? Then the ftrist step for the us--call me, Scott Rueter, at very suprised at how responsible 
! because opposite sexes are in the
1birdly, I would like to reply to rest of the halls is to pass a 283-7986 or mail a letter express­. we are--we might even quiet
same room, it doesn't mean they
some of the comments that have proposal among themselves, ing your interest to me at 408 down out here. Thank you. 
will make more noise than people 
been in The Observer since the abolishing parietals or at least Carroll Hall. Any support would ' 
of the same sex when they are in
be~inning of this controversy, making them the decision of the be gready appreciated. 
the same room. Are there not
which include some of the stand­hall, and we'll see what can As I satd before, we learn from 
RAs on duty to enforce quiet
ing arguments against 24 hour happen from there. 1bis first the past. How is it known that Scott Rueter 
hours? Again, shouldn't the
visitation. One of the standard problem of noise be, and isn't it,arguments against 24 hour visita­one which is solved on the section tion is that wtth parietals, privacy level or the hall level and not onis provided. Does privacy apply the university level? 

to members of opposite sexes 

WhyWSND?
only? Can't a person's privacy be In The Observer ofJanuary 31, interrupted by members of his 1979, our rector, Brother Frank or her own gender as well as Drury, is quoted as saying, "If WhyWSND? No one wants to listen to a musical broadcast so those of the opposite one? Are we had more upperclassmen, I'm There are two radio stations located in the tower bathed in static that it sounds like a blender full of 
there not locks on every private sure there would be a more of O'Shaughnessy Hall both of which bear the call gravel. Or Howard Cosell gargling in the morning. 
room door on campus to insure mature view. Different things letters WSND. These two are staffed by Notre Or Howard Cosell gargling a blender full of gravel privacy? (Even though several would be discussed.'' What Dame/St. Mary's students (althoughWSNDFM is before bed. people have keys and are not different things? The future? not entirely student-run) and provide an excellent The second problem with WSND-AM is that it restricted entry.) It is also said Sure the future, as well as what opportunity for a student to try his hand at news serves littleuse to the student audience. 1bis is no that d.is privacy includes being goals we should set and how we reponing, sports broadcasting, disc-jockeying and doubt related to the first fault; there is little able to walk around the hall should attain them, is important, other jobs connected with the medium. As Du Lac student interest in the station because it's barely naked. I asked, who really wants but so is the present. Parietals succ~nctly sta~es • WSND7FM has a "cl~sical audible (or not stereo) and so there are fewer good 
1

to? I'm not particularly enthused affect us now. It is something we .~s1c onentatton and so 1s not the real subJeCt of programs of interest to the students being about seeing naked guys around want to change now, not just this letter. On the other hand, WSND-AM plays broadcast. Consequently, the "special" programs my hall. In fact, I have yet to see shrug off with apathetic words of, contemporary music and is geared primarily .for have become rather rare and almost always someone here to to the restroom "Hell, we'll be out ofhere soon." students. ridiculous. Case in point: last Monday's Radio with anything less on than what The future is not the only From my experience as a Ted Baxter-type in the Free Notre Dame talk show which was to feature they might wear in public. Also, important thing. We learn from news department at WSND-AM last year, I know ND sex authority Brian Hogan degenerated into a ludicrous display of the latest off-color jokes and
what make 2:00 or 12:00 the the past and the present is alway that the radio station has good (yet somewhat 
magic hour for a person to say, austere) facilities. It is staffed by some very songs. Though the hosts were entertaining, their
always here--we cannot ignore it. 
"Hey, I wanna go to the john Besides, upon becoming an up­dedicated individuals and has a really fine lise of double-entendres and their cutsie attitudes naked!'' I was told by someone perclassman, does one automa­collection ofmusic in its album library. But despite toward serious phoners also set the tone for the here in Carroll that he ''would tically become mature? 1bis all that it has going for it, WSND-AM has rest of the show. The callers responded rather put on a robe, than tell would seem to imply that going to somethin~ seriously wrong with'it. I say this accordingly and the ''discussion'~ degenerated to a someone to get out.'' because m talking to many of my acquaintances funny, yet intellectually empty series of pranks.
college makes one maure. (It's 
on the diploma in fme print.) I've discovered that nearly all of them never listen Similarly, other radio programs have become sillyIt is also said that between 1bis also implies that anyone who regularly to "their" radio station and most of them exibitions ofDJ "personalities" or of bush-leagueroommates, there is the right that disco music. 
doesn't go to colle~e is terminally have never even tuned it in. 
they should each have the free­immature. If this is not true, Now, I'll be the first to agree that my little What should be done with WSND? First, wedom to enter their room without then I think we should ask survey can hardly be called a tightly-screened, should remind the staff of WSND, the students of

''interrupting'' something. 

"What is mature? How does statistically-accurate poll. However there is ND/SMC and anybody else that cares to listen that 
First, that implies that there is one become mature, and when something amiss that these audiophiles and media the primary concern of a student radio stationsomething to "interrupt." 1bis does one become mature?'' freaks would never bother to spin their dials to 640 should be the needs of its student audience. Of 

means that the 

A.M. course, the station provides excellent experience foPersonally, I resent being called 
reason for parietals is that the immature merely because I am a Well, what is wrong with WSND? First off, it's for the staffmembers but the purpose ofthis public administration is afraid of stu­

sophomore. AM. AM-radio has poor sound quality: stereo medium is to serve the public (i.e. its audtence) ­dents engaging in sexual activity, music cannot be broadcast over the AM· band and not just prqvide jobs for its employees. If this
which is also, well, dumb. 

Brother Drury is also quoted as (although I understand that advances in this are were not the case, then a whole lot of money could Merely because someone is in saying, ''No matter where you go area have been made recently), Monaural AM is be saved if we just "pretended" that the radio 
someone else's room, it doesn't or bewhat you do people will nice in the dash ofa VW or in a jacket pocket at the station was actually broadcasting and then mean that they must have inter­
telling you what to do, and this ball park but it is totally unacceptable and almost students could still get all that valuable experience course. If it does then there are happens all throughout life ... you sacreligious on a $2000 stereo system. What is from a complete, full-scale radio station mock-up. 
quite a few homosexuals on are going to be marching to even more annoying about the sound quality of a How could the needs of both staff and audience campus. 1bis is not meant to be many tunes." Now, merely WSND-AM broad cast is that often there is no best be met? IncreasingWSND'sAM power inight a "dig" at homosexuals, it is only because someone is telling you sound at all. The broadcast power of WSND is so help though I doubt it (1t may not be permitted by a way to say that someone who what to do, you. do.n't have to. do weak that audible or intelligible reception is the FCC). What the students want (and need!) ishas sexual relations with every­it. If you don t like something normally impossible in my room on the ufper floor stereo. Why not have WSND-AM and WSND-FM on:~ who enters his or her room is there is this thing called change. ofFlanner and, I suspect, in other areas o campus. switch P.laces: could the punk rock and jazz go toextremely prolific. At this point 

DOONESBURV 
QJN3RES5MAN, WOU/.OYOU'rfJIJ'V&fJEEN IN fl£TURN 7D SClf-IMRJSEI) C/JN6I?ES5 IF · YE.5, I IAJOU/.0. ~XIIENW~ S&tflf7l)R !<CN-I IA/O{JLD 00 OVER. A YeAR, Ne/JY A'5kEIJ ANYTHING 
RIGHTr YOU 7D? FOR THE f MAN.
f / 
FM while the super market Muzak went to AM? If not, what aboutWSNDAM going cable? These are just a few questions (from a person of very
by Garry Trudeau 

questionable intelligence) which deserve to be examined. What will be done? Probably nothing. The
WCKJ/.0 'rfJIJ.. 

Administration will no doubt dismiss this by
/.J.lJUWYOU 

singing the "Ain't Got No Money or Time" blues
OW3RSPENO LAVISHLY. 

or will sim{'ly ignore these questions. After all,
FORHIM-:r fAJfTHOUT 

~ HESITATION. they don't hsten to "thatJUNK" anyway. And the student body in 'all its glorious sluggishness and
.f / 

awesome apathy will just continue to babbly the "Shula's Newsblimp" intro and hum the BeeGees' latest while dreaming ofthe NCAA B-ball playoffs. They probably won't see this as a pseudo-substi­tute for a real student record store. 
So if I feel so sure that nothing is going to be done, why did I bother to write this little piece? Why do people climb mountains, run marathons, or always hun the one they love? Why do fireman wear red suspenders? Why WSND? 
Mark . Ferron 

The Observer -Editorials Thursday,' February 8, 1979 -page 9 

Professions under siege 
Notre Dame's singular voice 
The status of anY. profession arranged and organized with a 
One of Ray Bradbury's short stories depicts how when Notre Daine replaces them, it attempts to goes up and down hke the stock distinct practical purpose in view. 
the bodies of a family killed by a nuclear fallout place controls on the student to keep up its unage market, in response to things That is what makes it a 
were reduced to ashen silhouettes on the walls of of a cloistered America. other than net worth. And, for a 1profession.' " Since the laity, by 
their home. From what I've seen, as a naive So, here we are. The hope of the world. Yet, decade or more, the public and definition, has no such purposes 
freshman, a nuclear fallout has hit Notre Dame. where we have been begged to lead, we are forced the press have made it clear that and lacks special tratning, a 
As I walk from class to class I see similar to follow. Notre Dame seems to give no other the learned professions are not profession is necessarily a mono­
shadows of what were once people; a frozen choice. (In the immortal words of Carroll Rector the splendid companies, held in poly. In modern soc1eties this 
pantomime of stoic characters engaged in stoic Bro. Frank Drury, "No matter where you go or awe and respect, that they once monopoly is made legal by a 
action. I see them everywhere: m the offices, what you do, people will be telling you what to were. license to practice. Professionals 
where papers drift from desk to desk;, in the do ... '') As a matter of fact, we seem to give Doctors, formerly worshiped as justify the monopoly by calling it 
stadium, ashes falling on tier after tier; in the ourselves no other chance. We refuse to omniscient Good Samaritans, are essential to the safety of the 
library, littered among the bookshelv~s. ~o.thing is communicate to one another on a personal level. now seen as profiteers, often of public. But between monopoly 
left of these people except fo:r certatn radioactive We refuse to be nothing other than silhouettes. 
doubtful competence, who cover and conspiracy the line of demar­
sensations which crackle and sputter like an old Striking up a conversation with a stranger is like up one another's homicidal mis­cation is hard to fix and easy to 
wireless, groping for a mouth to give them voice. overturning a chess board; it disrupts a game we takes. Lawyers, once the defen­step over. 
You can perceive these sensations all the time: in seem to enJOY so much playing. It s time that we ders of private and civil rights, The upshot is that a profession 
an accidental _glance at someone you would like to unplug ourselves from our calculators and overturn now are thought neglectful and is by nature a vulnerable institu­
knowi an inaavertant brush across the cheek in a a few chess boards. It's time to reach out to extortionate, calculatedly deceiv­tion. It makes claims; it demands 
crowaed bar; when something in you screams to others--l'm not talking about the needy--I'm say "hello," and all you can muster is a muted, 
talking about the pers.on who ju!!t bumped into.you mystifying language. The aca-perform. But I 1t'' of course does
ing the public through purposely unique privile~es; and it has to 
half-garbled sound. These shadows cannot speak at COrby's. It'S' ttme to dirty our precious not exist as a single entity; it is a 
because they have lost their concrete form. monogrammed-sweaters with the dirt and beautiful demics lost their prestige by their Emotions have been replaced by standardized tests fmgrance of the human experience. Life isn't allfew hundred or many thousandsfecklessness in t.he campus and as a result the ability to communicate feelings Fifth Avenue--don't forget skid row.
of individuals, who differ astroubles of 1965-1970. The is lost. As for the University Itself, it had better begin towidely as all other human beings, scientists, demi-gods since Dar­The trouble with the Voice of Notre Dame is just immerse itself in the real world. With a virtualyet who, as professionals, arewin, became objects of suspicion that. Notre Dame has only one Voice. The voice Shangri La to live in, it's no wonder that no oneexpected to act in a standardafter Hiroshima. Latest· on the that cheers at sporting events. The Voice that wishes to move off campus. Shadows cannot livemanner and to be invariablycarpet, the austere, unfathom­complains against off-campus housing. The Voice behind grimy windows with the reality of an emptysuccessful in their art.
able accountant is being shown that wants parietals abolished. In this great refrigerator and leaking roof. They need theIn fact, though, as a whole up as a master of misrepresenta­melting pot of America, Notre Dame is one of those illus10n of life the Golden Dome offers. When the every profession is horriblytion, a cordon bleu at cooking the institutions where students are not thrown together illusion is removed, when the students are givenaverage, mediocre. By definitionbooks. 
from different backgrounds, but selected and the responsibility to choose and communicate that it cannot be anything else. ButLong ago, Bernard Shaw wrote casted from a single mold ofclay. Suburbia is fine, choice, perhaps the fallout will end and we canthe public expectation aims much that t self-governed profession is but it's only one aspect of the world we live in. In recover our individual emotions and voices. Thosehigher than mediou:ity, so that in 11 a conspiracy against the laity.'' 
struggling to become the Westchester of academic voices may not be in the grand ol' Notre Daniea time of reckoning, when theThe epigram should not be institutions, Notre Dame cannot adequately pre­tradition, of unity, but in a variety that will roundlaity is hot about its rights,dismissed as a joke or a needless pare us for, as poet Allen Ginsber~ sar.s, "a out the squares in our plaid pants. 
general dismay and recrimination exag~eration. The only overem­starving, torn-apart, freaked out world. ' Suburbiaare inevitable. What is more,phasis is in the word conspiracy, is an illusionary projection from the evils of life and although any art should bewhich implies a secret purpose to judged by its best results, aoverreach the public. Yet it is democr~tic nation, bent on equal­
that very imputation of making return the boy. " on various professional boards on fact, are fot crinlinals apd ·compe-:
ity in all things, is sure to judge a
the most of closely held secrets the ground that internal manage­titors, no( for. ·profe'ssions ·.that· 
profession by its worst exem­It is because of these intrica­
that becomes the common man's plar~. That is the condition we cies behind the gross results--a ment is unable to serve the public want to be known· as· deditai:ed.: 
idea of a profession when it fairly without supervision. The No .doubt tpe professiQ·naJ" codes ·.
are tn now. cure, a good education, winning
begins to lose the public's faith great force of government money now in force· · cah 'benefit from .· 
Consider the malpractice suit. the lawsuit--that for centuries It
and regard. And there lies the works to the same en:d, for the revision, bur"_ wna't I th~. •profes>
From one point of view, it is just has seemed best to let the
danger. For the obvious next sions need ·first is. the. will· t9:
that a patient--or his heirs-­professions police themselves. bureaucracy follows the funds 
idea that occurs to the aroused police themsd.ves. with n9 fr~ter-·.
should recover damages for care­But the regulati .1s of business and while directing their use is 
critics is to demand strong super­nal hand, ·~ith ~o tho~ght · of
less or ignorant treatment. From came about because business did bound to control the user. 
vision from outside. public relations ... Any few scan:.
another point of view, it is absurd not regulate itself. It exploited Such moves, whether viewed 
Yet better relations between dais giving the.group.a bad qirne 
as threats or reforms, signify onethat after the best/rofessional labor and the buyer, under the

layman and professional can thing: The modern professions will soon conyince ·the pul>lic thai.
efforts failure shoul be a cause motto "The public be damned."
hardly be brought about in . have enjoyed their monopoly so self-policing.rneans .w~ar.it s~ys
of complaint. Yet a customer An alert professional today has
mutual suspicion and hostility. long that they have forgotten that and corif1dence w1ll return.
cannot· tell whether he has had the uneasy feeling that the
Nor can there be improvement it is a privilege given in exchange Disciplining ·from ·within· ·musi:
the best. He judges by gross professions are at the juncture
through collective bargaining. for a public benefit. Occasional c~ntinue,. ste;1dily and ~1fn:t, or .it
results--kill or cure--and wants where the same motto IS being
The essence of those relations is wt!l be . taken ~vet. by . pubhc
complaints have been interpreted the reasons plain. imputed to them.

individual, from which it follows as envy or misunderstanding, bodies. · · · · 
The subtleties of the predica­There are other signs ·of a
that some clearer idea of what a ment are even clearer in educa­gradual demoting of the profes­instead of what they are: resent­But policing,.bei~g· ~egative 1 .is profession is must once again ment at breach of faith, contempt not enough.: Moral r:egeneratton
tion, where the failure to 11 edu­sions to the level of ordinary
become common property among of complacency. can come · abou( only when the
cate'' a particular student is trades and businesses. The right 
insiders and outsiders both. It may be, of course, that we members of a. group feel once
evident in the student, yet as­of lawyers and physicians to
According to Abraham Flex­are witnessing the evolution of a more confident that ethical beha­
signing blame is beyond human advertise, which reintroduces 
nee, the famous reformer of drive toward a society collecti­vior is desirabl.e, ·widely prac­
Wit. Nor can our modern system money competition, has been
medical education nearly 70 vized through and through, the ticed, . approved and ·admlred.
follow the example of the old­granted. Architects are being Mter a marked decline, . it . can years ago, to be medically trained theory being that no individual or
time college president who said allowed to act as contractors. 
only be a slow growth; and. only tain portions of many sciences dam, we guarantee results--or we Laymen demand the right to sit mean the death of the very idea one fo.r:ce can start it on its way: of a profession. 
1mplies "the possession of cer­to the indignant parent: "Ma­Teachers have been unionized. group can be trusted. That would 
the force of moral arid .intellectual The message for the profes­leadership. All the ptofessfons need critics from inside·, men who 
sions to~ay is t~at their ~ne h~pe 

of surv1val w1th anythtgn like know what conditions: are and can their present freedoms is the 
.. offer their fellow practiti<)n~rs a recovery. of. mental and · moral new vision of the prof~ssi6n ~ an ·force. Moral here does not mean 
·institution. . · , . merely honest; it refers to ·the · For each profession;. ·qetails 
nature of any encounter between · will have to be spelled out and 
two human beings. As soon as a embe~dc;d in generalJ?~i~ciples. person serves another, . ethical The rum 1s to hft the cnuq~e: from 1ssues spring to life and get a set of complaints to .a set of settled well or badly. Such purposes. That is what Flexner l?ractices as experiments on poor 
did when he riddled medical patients, or operations by young education in 1910. He changed 
residents while the patient thinks American medicine, having made he is in the hands of the great it impossible for do-nothing surgeon, seem clear-cut matters schools to continue in being: 
that find their parallels iri teach­

When the problem is a failure ing and in the law. But more of competence and morality, subtle situations arise from group 
nothing will solve it but the work practice, in any profession, of an mdividual mind and con­
where the client may be tossed science, aided of course by the about among several hands, los­
many scattered men of talent and ing confidence all the while, and good wil! who are only waiting for in the end knowing that responsi­
a lead. Without some such heroic ble attention has been denied 
effort, we professionals shall all him. 
go down--appropriately--as. non­Moral sensitivity will not re­heroes together. turn to the individual practitioner Jacques Barzun {Historian and by his guild's writing a fresh Professor Emeritus, Columbia code. A code only sets the limits University) 
beyond which behavior will be Editor's Note: Reprinted with condemned, and the moral level permission from the January, is not high when most of those 1979 Readers Digest (c) 1978 The 
living under it always act within a Reader's Digest Association, hairline of those limits. Codes, in Inc., Pleasantville, N.Y. 10570 

. · ... 

.,~. -<·-1i~i--~ 
'"'Wi!i'~ ·lll·-~-~----~­
·Features 
-Thursday, February 8, 1979 ­
·THE iVAVB .·OF THE FUTURE 
·.· ·New WaVe: Another English Ripple 
Tim Sullivan 

·Th~ Beatles, ·by definition, tions ''that new British trash.'' fresh British music emerges, Pistols, punk's worst disaster groups like Klark Kent and wete a riew wave group 'before· y ~t very few of these same remjnisq:nt of the ftrst English and therefore the most success­Generation restate the existen­
· their time_. . . individuals· have ever taken the wave of which the Beatles, the ful, attests to this. Punk groups tialist doctrine that life is ab­· No doubt the abOve staterP,ent trouble . to sit down and really Who, and· the Rolling Stones fail to last more than a year. 

surd, but they make a joke of pr<>duc~d· physiol9gica.Liy· ·.and · see what New Wave l:,las·to s.ay. were· so prominent a part. Punk, like a flash fire, was this somber thought. Only apsychologica-lly ·damag.ing But that's o.k.'a lot of dumb Fi:rst, New Wave is not punk horrific at first, but didn't last sense of humor can save man· 

waves af abht>rreoce ·. itl any. people· also ignored the Beades · rock, and punk rock is not New long. kind. devoted' fan of the Fab Four.· when their music ftrst arrived Wave. Punk rock grew out of New Wave is the moderate Indeed, New Wave is worthWhether: one .likes it or oot, on our American shores. the depression and frustration and yet provocative reaction to listening to. Not only are the however, the U.k.; Squee~ and The pubiic's general hatred ·of England's young ·working to punk, with various styles and songs an attempt to see life as it . the Bea des. shiJ.re the ·saine and distaste of New Wave class, who found it lffipossible messages worth listerung to. appears to be, but the music, too.ts in jolly ~ld England. Still, . st¢ms ·from several generaliza-to· ftnd · a job ot better the-Most New Wave groups consist altho1;1gh a ~it mechar_ll~al andmost· Beaile worshippers wotild . tions; IJlisconceptiollS, and pre­. themselves socially because of of artists, using the music to repetmve, 1s entertatnmg as .cringe, ai the . thought of e~en . judices produced by its _bastard Britain's floundering economy. paint a ·portrait of the world as well. att~tnptit,lg to·. c(?m~are Jofln, brother, punk rock, which was Rebellious youths saw the eco­they see it. The scenes of In the sixties, America rus­Pa.ul, ·George, and Ringo to the. ·the flrst ripple of Erigland's . nomic structure as part of the mankind they present are often covered England, releasing a British musical .discord .called l~test rock trend to touch the ''old-age establishment.'' frightening, sometimes humor­flood of new groups answeringNe~Wave.. · · . States. The well-deserved dis­In anger and pain, punk rock ous, and always fresh. to the needs of those weary of 
In fact; most intelligent gust produced by d)is. tribute to was formed as an outlet for The U.K. Squeeze envisions a primordial rock-n-roll. Out of beings· would 'not even. lower sadism and loud clanging caco­frustrations and protest. Punk mechanical humanity, driven this torrent emerged the themselves ·td listen to . the phony turned. ~eads away fr?~ rock is inherently anti­into submission by the routines Beatles, who singlehandedlysupposedly dete:;;table stuff. the · more c1vil tones which establishment, anti-England, of daily existence. Their turned .the tide of pop music 
As a 'resiltt, ~ost "musically followed. Ifone looks closely at and anti-everything, even anti­American counterparts, the forever after. The New Wave, if 
aware' ' people fuid ·it fashlon­the evolution ofNewWave and punk rock. As a result, punk Talking Heads and Devo, also given half a chance, may repeat ~bl~ i:o &rimace ·and fain gastric · strips away the guile flavors of· was doomed to die before it was forge this impression. history and give us a new mdigest'lon whenever one. men-punk rock, an exciting exodus of born. The fate of the Sex Lesser known New Wave Beatles. 
Q. Is-~Th-is Not Rock? 
People so far have just been rehashing andbeing detivative andmaking it [rock music] all into one constipated rut, ana DEVO just wanted to give everything a big enema, so we did!'' 
That's the way Jerry Devo puts the · "why" of DEVO. Like a knife cutting 
through a world hung up on following 
the crowd. DEVO's debut release Q: 
Are We Not Men? A: We Are DEVOl is 
the sound of things falling apart. It's 
very DEVO. 
The spud boys, as they call themselves hail, from Akron, Ohio. :"What," you say, "Not Akron, bastion of normalcy!" But it's true, and it was ''clean living ' ' that inspired the formation of DEVO in 1974 when Jerry Casale and Mark Mothersbaugh met while studying art at Kent State. Two brothers and a drummer were added and from there on things started to de­evolve. 
De-evolution, what DEVO is all about, 
concerns man ·becoming so advanced 
and so robot like that he falls into slavery 
to machines and the system. To survive 
he must de-evolve and start all over 
again. Or so they say. 
The album itself is a p.leasant surpr!se 
as far as new wave albums go. Bnan 
Eno does an excellent job producing a 
quite difficult product. Mechanical rock 
is a good way to describe DEVO's mix of 
repetitive guitar riffs, electronic wizar­
dry and robot voices. The sound that 
results is totally . unlike anything else. 
For those wanting a crash course in 
DEVO, '']ocko Hom<(, ~ ~dentin~ 
anthem to ·De-evo/utzon 1s highly adVi­
sable. If you can get through the whole 
Mick Mancuso 

song you've got it licked and listening to the rest of the album should be no problem. 
A sense of nervous urgency comes through in Mark Devo's vocals, especi­ally on "Too Much Paranoias," an ode to the fears of induced consumption. This same feeling comes to life in their parody of male sexual disfunction "Sloppy". No subject is out of DEVO' s realm as is evidenced by two outstanding cuts, "Uncontrollable Urge" and "Mongo­loid." 
One strength of DEVO' s music is that there are no weaklings on this album. If you lik any of it you' II probably like it all. Another amazing fact is the abilitiy of the musicians. Their talent is apparent, especially in electronics, but lt is a shame that at times it is masked by the sheer repetitiveness of their music. But of all the facets of DEVO, the strongest is innovation. Finally someone has created music for the paranoid-schizo­phrenic. 
The band recently appeared on ' 'S:¥lillday Night Live'' and did excellent live versions of ''Jocko Homo" and "Satisfaction". The performance appeared on the surface as an amusing stunt, if not a joke. But to DEVO-tees and many others of slightly twisted insight another meaning came through: these guys are for real! The spuds are serious about their music. I wouldn't recommend DEVO for everyone, it takes an extremely open musical mind plus a taste for the bizarre for true enjoyment. But beware disco-drones and pop­rockers, DEVO many be the sound of the future come. 
~-­

he Observer Features Thursday, February 8, 1979-page 1 
-
The Marshall Tucker Band: Good Ole' Boys 
Chris Stewart, Features Editor 
.After numerous phone calls to The Marshall Tucker Band's director of public relations, Patti Mitsui in Beverly Hills, our lines finally hooked up. An interview with the band was arranged with the band's road manager, jim Bannan, who was supposed to contact me the week preceeding their perfor­mance at the AC£.. 
Saturday morning, January 27, Jim woke me up, and tentatively scheduled the interview for 4 p.m., because the band was still sleeping from their previous night's engagement in Milwau­kee. 4 o'clock turned to 5, to 6 and what the hell, I wasn't expecting any miracles, figuring that they all came down with a severe case of don't-hassle-me-iris. Hey, you know I'm cool; it wasn't the fJist time I've been shafted, and it won't be the last. But you can bet your a--I won't be buying any MIB lp's in the near future. 
Yeah, I know that Firefall was too loud 
and their vocals sounded like sandpaper scraping a cheese grater. They pulled their romantic tunes off OK. During intermission, I was not to be denied. I trudged down to the dressing room, feigning reporter arrogance and de­manding to see Bannan. 
''You heard me right. Features Editor for the Observer, and I'm here to arrange for a post-concert tet a tet with these good ole' Southern boys." 
He was very cordial, quite accomodat­in~. "No sweat, meet me out here ten rrunutes after the show. The guys like to have a few minutes alone to recoup their resources." 
Hey, Jim, yo comprendo. Gracias. 
The interview was shared with another reporter, Jeff Barkus from The South Bend Tnliune. Had not Jeff brought along his trusty tape recorder, you fine Notre Dame and Saint Mary's humans would not be reading this review. Thanks, Jeff. 
Most of the interview was held with Jerry Eubanks, Marshall Tucker's flutist and saxaphone/layer par excellence. Toward the en , Doug Gray--the lead singer--joined the discussion. I might add that Doug was wearing one of the 
r--------------------------_:__ _:__.::_..., takes: dedication and persistence, to stay in there through the hard times. We started out just playing as an
Tim Sullivan 
opening act. Bands like 1bree Dog

UFO Shall 
Night gave us 15 minutes for a set. We 
drove all the. ,way to LA from South 
Carolina to play ·'15 minutes at the 
Forum. Things like that just built our audience slowly but surely. 

Re""ain~ Strange.r~ 
Ever since Peter Frampton rose out of relative obscurity with a multi-platinum live album in 1976, virtually every major group and a few unknowns have hit the recording industry with a glut of live samplings. With the exce.{>tion of Jackson Browne's "Runmng on Empty,'' however, no one has been able to duplicate Petey the Pretty Boy's success. UFO, the hard-rocking Brittsh five-man band, will unfortunately con­tinue this trend. 
"Strangers in the Night," UFO's latest release, is appropriately tided since this live double-set will contribute little to familiarizing the common folks with this competent but faceless group. Although sublimely produced by Ron Nevison (the slick manipulator Of that sickeningly commercial but highly suc­cessful troupe called the Babys), exces· sively decorated by Hipgnosis (if you've seen a Pink Floyd cover you know what I mean), and adequately performed by the band, this album nusses the point of recording live in the first place. "Strangers" ' faults are twofold. 
First, the worst possible location was chosen to tape the concen-·the Chicago Amphitheatre. This cavernous architec­tual travesty is reknowned for its ungodly echo-and reverb which makes recording almost impossible. Chicago is supposedly one of UFO's popularity strongholds, hut judging from the crowd's respon· they must have charged 100 doL.~s per ticket. Most groups faced with these conditions woula try to fight the poor acoustics and lethargic crowds ; by cranking up to maximum volume and power-chording some enthusiasm into the listless audience. But UFO, fearful ofdistortion 
y, c ld II
0Y a we 

funniest, and most obscene, T-shirts I've ever seen. Since this is a Catholic school, and one of the words are among the seven unmentionable words, I re­frain from describing his perverse anecdote. 
Get on with it, already. 

Stewart: Jerry, you guys have spent many years together as a sroup. Do you get tired of playing with the same people? Are there ever any problems with sensitive egos? 
Eubanks: Ego is not a problem with our group at this point. I think any group of people are going to have ego problems. We've essentially had such common roots through the years that we've been able to work things out. If somebody gets out of hand, the other five guys will take him off in a corner and beat the hell out of him. 
(Laughs) 

Stewart: The closeness of the group is an interesting aspect of Marshall Tucker. I was readirig one of your press releases, which was discussing the tragic demise of the Allman Brothers. It appears that their situation stands little chance of ever happening to your group. 
and all the similar musical diseaSes 
We played a year as an opening act; produced when one overcompensates in then a year as special guest and then a thi$. manner; chose to let the recordittg third year we started headlining very talents of Nevison take care of the echo small halls--3,000 seat halls. We spent 2 and their own playing talen~s take ~.pf'·••• years building up as a headline act. 
the audience. niis grand gesture, 
however, turns out to be a mistake. 
This brin~s us to the second major fault--UFO Itself. Though Phil M~g~$vocals are strong arid melodicil.lly pleasant, they are larijely uninspired./ Andy Parker's drumming coupled with Pete Way's ~ass wor~ provides ~solid 
rhythm secnon which occasstonally erupts into some exciting riffs· but th~~ .· relaxes into dull competency. ·~? leaves guitar virtuoso Michael Schenk~ . to cartY, the greatest petfonning ~oac;L As easily as he can walk, he SWttclt~ · from blazing rock-out chords to screan)~/ ing and/or sensitive leads, which vary#} flavor from intense to siniple m.ajestY~i Unfortunately, UFO attempts to show,.. case roo much of Schenker's talent ash¢ tries too hard in too many long solos~ Paul Ray.roond,. the keyboards speciali$t, 
issimplylacklustet. WfultUFOneeds~ someone who can act as a foil {Qr Schenker's talent, and a Rood multikey~ boards operator would he1p. UFO mu.st know this; Raymond is their t:hin,:l keyboards player in the group's six-y~
history. · 
Though far from intolerable, "Strangers" isn't very good either. Songs like "Too Hot to Handle/' "Natural Thing," and "Let It Roll/} though excellent in the studio versionst reprOduce flady on this sample. A live album should have some ''punch,'' some gutsiness, or something "extra." that 
ln.akes the record special. This one does . 
OQf, ''' ( ; I 
Eubanks: It would never happen in 
this band. We went through a lot of 
pressure when we were coming up. We 
were the opening act for the Allman 
Brothers when they were the biggest 
group in the world ('74). We saw them 
break up. And that was a real good 
lesson. 
Stewart: So you witnessed the same 
pressure destroy the Allman Bros.? 
Eubanks: We saw it do them in, so 
when we got that status, it started 
gettin' to us. But we think we learned to 
cope better. 
Most bands have guys from all over 
the country. They don't have anything 
in common. We do. Everybody knows 
where each other came from, so you 
can't get too hi~h-handed. 
Stewart: You re all from Spartanburg, 
South Carolina. 
Eubanks: Yes. We're all from the 
same town, and thathelpsa lot. 
Stewart: The sroup has produced 7 
albums, six of which have gone gold ... 
Eubanks: And two platinum. 
Stewart: ...That's a pretty high 
success rate. I'm curious, with that kind 
of success, what does the band look 
forward to? What keeps Marshall 
Tucker motivated? 
Eubanks: We just signed a new contract with Warner Brothers, and our next lp will be out on Warner Brothers records. We just keep making music. Really, as artists, to make money and enjoy success just sets us free. It 
doesn't matter whether we get gold 
records. Of course, I want to keep 
~etting gold records. But all that means 
IS that I can do what I want to do. 
Stewart: Has the money and fame 
changed you much? 
Eubanks: It's made me a lot freer. I 
can do whatever the hell I want to do 
without havin~ to worry about where the 
rent money IS coming from. That's 
mainly what it's done ... 
.. .I devoted my life to music because I 
thought we could be successful. I 
wouldn't have dedicated my life if I 
didn't think we couldn't be successful at 
it. I thought all the guys were talented, 
dedicated, and devoted. That's what it 
Stewart: When did you start headlin­ong, 1971-72? 
Eubanks: We started recording in '72. We didn't start headlining until early 
'74. That's when the Searchin' For A Rainbow album came out. That was our first bi~ album, the fJISt platinum also. (Editors note: a gold record indicated sales exceeding $1 million; platiflum indicates sales exceeding one million units, or albums.) 
Stewart: Back then, did you really think that the Marshall Tucker Band would be as big as you are today? 
Eubanks: Yes, sure did. I thought it was a process that if we could stay together andkeep working at it, it would happen. In this business, you simply outlast the competition. 
Stewart: Does the band prefer playing 

to live audiences over studio recording?" =================l 
spontaneous. Stewart sets the mood 
very, very well. · 
Stewart: Do you think you'll ever go 
b~ to Macon to do any recording, or 
will Marshall Tucker do all their fUture 
work in Miami, as with Running £de 
The Wind? 

Eubanks: Never. IfI never walk in the 
city of Macon llffain, I'll be happy. 
Stewart: You re that tired of it? 
Eubanks: Yes, I cenainly am. I just 
spent too many years of my life working 
~d being there, and I've had enough of 
lt. 

Stewart: What can we expect in the 
future from the MIB? 
Eubanks: Lots of good music. 
Stewart: How long will the Marshall . 
Tucker Band be at the top? 
Eubanks: Who knows? S--, you can never tell what the public is going to want. 
(Enter Doug Gray, exhibitor of nasty T-shirts) 
Stewart: What was the biggest 
transition that the MIB had to make 
from its days of obscurity to its present 
state of fame? 

Gray: We don't have to play Sam and 
Dave songs anymore. 
(Laughs) 

Stewart: There's one very important 
thing I have to clear up torute. Where 
did Marshall Tucker get its name? I've 
read it was on a key that one of you 
found. Another story claims it was the 
name of a blind black pianist who once 
loaned the group a rehearsal hall. 
Gray: It was a key; it was on the name 
tag of the key of a place we rented. We 
picked the name ... 
Stewart: Rented from the black guy? 
Eubanks: ...Come to fmd out he wasn't 
black. He was a white guy, he was blind; 
he tuned pianos. He had rented the 
place before us. His name was still on 
the tag. 

Stewart: So, it was a key to the hall ... 
Gray: We needed a name for a radio 
advertisement for a show we had that 
weekend. We didn't have a name for the 
band. So we said 'Hey ... that sounds 
good ... Marshall Tucker ... sounds like a 
band!' And that's where it came from. 
We found out later that the guy was a 
blind piano tuner. 
After a beer, and an exchange of addresses (Doug Gray promised to forward me one of his infamous T-shirts), the Marshall Tucker Band departed for their beloved Spartanburg. 
I've reconsidered; maybe I'll buy one of their albums afterall. 

Doug Gray 
Eubanks: Yeah. We were always a live band. We had to learn how to make records. It took us a long time. Our newest record Running Like The Wind, is a major step for us. It's the best thing we've ever done. 
Stewart: The new album is with your new producer, Stewart Levine. 
Eubanks: Yes. He's a dynamite producer. He's worked with jazz musicians for so long, he's used to things being spontaneous. He sets up the mood in such a way as to allow the musicians fo play spontaneously. Rock 'n roll bands usually don't do that, but Marshall Tucker is like that. We're 
much like a jazz band in that We are 

Devo ... 
continuedfrom page 10 
Maybe so. Then again, what Devo says does give others some food for future 
·~thought. If the group accomplishes neither for the rest, at least their outrageous song techniques make their first album a must for anyone's record collection--anyone, that It, who can appreciate a bizarre, but half-serious philosophy. • 
This album is an unforgettable experi­ence. Thank you, Neil Young. 



-~--~~ 
The Observer 

Thursday, February 8, 1979 -page 12
-
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. (AP)-Early findings from Pioneer Venus I and II show Venus' fierce 
NASA 

atmosphere and surface include continuing lightnin~ above and a glow from ''mystenous chemical fires" below, scientists said yes­terday.
releases 

The information was released from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Ames Research Center and came about two months after the
Pioneer 

orbiter Venus I and five atmos­pheric probes called Venus II reached the tJlanet. 
The lightrung which scientists 

said flashed as often as 100 times· · n five minutes was also recorded by Russian spacecraft which was sent to the planet shortly after the American crafts. Sctentists 
findings 

said they got the Soviet results only yesterday. 
from Venus 
•

• The Professional Touting Co. of • 
: GODSPELL : 

• 
: Sunday, Feb.18, 8pm : : Centuty Centet Theatte : : Info: 219-284-9711 : : good for .50 off with this ad :
, _______________, 
i BULLA SHED l
I 5:15 mass and supper ~ I I this friday ~~~ I· 
I and every friday-CC!RJf.US • 
\ m1n1:...ry I 
~---------------' 

and special guest star 
EXILE 

Thursday Feb 22 8pm Notte Dame ACC ~'I• Seats Reserved ~ J8.00 & J7.00 
Tickets on sale at ACC Box Office Ptoduced by SUNSHINE & CELEBRATION 
The lightnin~ was detected by the orbiter which has remained above the Venusian surface and apparently can't be seen from the surface. 
The glow was detected by two probes on the side of the planet facing away from the sun. Scientists called the!.low myster­ious and unexpecte , and said it 
Bus collides with train 
lacerations, attendants said. kindergarten children to therr 
Cl-llCAGO (AP)-A bus returnin_g 
The bus driver, Lester Moody, homes after morning classes 29, a music teacher at the collided with a railroad locomo­
Rqseland Christian School on the tive yesterday and was dragged !South Side, was charged with 60 feet down the tracks. Author­
£ · ~e to yield ~e right-of-way at ities said two youngsters were railroad crossUig . killed and 17 injured. 
"We ran out and saw that this engine, which wasn't pulling any Police said the bus had stopped tars, had carried the bus downand started through the intersec­the tracks about 60 feet or so,"tion just after a frei~ht train had said Beatrice Taylor, a bookkeep­passed. A locomotive going the er at the South Shore Iron Works, opposite direction then collided who heard the crash from herwith the bus . 

office . 
The dead youths were identi­She said there are no gates atfied as Faith Alexander, 6, and the crossing on the Louisville & 

Anthony Thompson, 5, both ~ Nashville Railroad line . 
the South Side. 
All the children were 5 or 6 

One of the injured, Randolph years old, hospital attendants Small, 5, was reported in critiCal said. Including the driver, there condition. Patricia J oily, 5, was were 20 persons in the bus which listed in serious condition. The has a seating capacity of about others suffered mainly from 60. 
.A 1fl'(l,'l'li
bWS ./ 
()YYl 

Action Express DOn't kick the dog 
Have rou ever noticed that whenever you are away from Notre Dame al you ever hear about this place is how perfect and well rounded is it? I'm not going to try._to denounce most of the things you hear since I myself am proua to be liete~"But, by no means is this place perfect! How often have you become so frustrated with something that you are ready to kick the nearest dog? Whether your frustration is cured by waiting in lines, lack of communication with the administration, or being lotteried out of various student privileges (like housing or basketball tickets), you often end up letting out your frustrations on your friends since there isn't a dog nearby to kick. Being grumpy to your friends because you are stea_med up helps netther you nor Y?ur school. The orily way to unprove this place IS by working together. 
Since we at Ombudsman realize this need to work together, we too are frustrated but for a different reason. We know that the purpose of our organization is to help the student body by always being there when needed; by answering guestions and complaints, by giving out information, and also oy working in · various ways to 1mprove life under the Dome. Even thougli we know what our duties are a lot of students do not and so our services are not fully exploited. 
The Special Projects division of Ombudsman, specifically1 is trying to improve Notre Dame by im,Provising and initiatUig projects to tills end, but we face a serious prol:ilem. We need practical ideas to work on. Normally, we get these ideas during an event known as Operation Bramstorm conducted by the Ombudsman in the spring of.each year. However, due to a lack of creati~ity, most of last year's ideas were fruitless. 
We at Ombudsman feel that the main reason for the lack of creativity is that we were trying to force students to think of ideas at one specific time. A far better way to operate (we hope) would be to allow students to submit suggestions at the time they are inspired. Therefore we have modified Operation Brainstorm so that we can get some truly producuve and practical input. From no_w on we will run the contest for !he entire school year bes1des the final push of Opera:ttonBrainstorm in the spring. The best idea rec1eved during a gtven year will receive an award of fifty dollars. 
The process for submitting ideas is quite simple. Just write down your ideas legibly on a piece of paper and oe sure to include your name and phone number. Send it to the Ombudsman. either by leaving it at the Ombudsman office on the second floor ofl.a Fortune (next to Student Government offices) or putting it is campus mail. We guarantee that as soon as someone m Special Projects sends it we will callJou and let you know whether we think your idea i~ plausible: 3.1? why_. Ifwe do decide to work on your tdea, we wllf call agam tnforffiUlg you of the action taken and any accomplishments accompanying it. 
Don't kick the dog before you let us see what we can ao! 

~ 
Scientists said there are three distince cloud layers on Venus, a total of 12 miles thick. The top layer is about 55 degrees Fahren­heit, the second layer about 68 degrees and the bottom, which · they said is the only layer opaque enough to be like most earthly clouds, is about 395 degrees. 
Sulphuric acid droplets plus liquid and solid sulphur appear to drift slowly down from the clouds, scientists said. The material vaporizes and splits up as it sinks, forming what they called "chemical stew." 

Jury indicts prosecutor 
WEIRTON, W.Va. (AP)-A fed­eral grand jury has indicted a local prosecutor, three lawyers and 21 others in connection with an alleged gambling operation, authorities said yesterday. 
The indictments accuse Han­
cock County Prosecutor Robert 
Altomare of running his office as 
a "racketeering enterprise" and 
charge him with bribery, obstruc­
tion of justice and aiding gam­
blers by not enforcing state laws 
against them. 

The indictments were returned by a grand jury in Elkins on Tuesday but were sealed until yesterday , when police fanned out through the Weirton area to serve warrants on the lawyers, club operators and cigar store owners named in the documents. 
The bribery allegatiuns involve "a monthly payment sort of thing," said William Kolibash, assistant U.S. attorney. Kolibash said the payments, which varied in amount, began in 1977 and continued through this year. 
, The indictments follow a Jan. 
26 raid by the FBI and state 
police on eight alleged gambling 
parlors in the Weirton area. 
About $17,000 in cash, as well as 
~ambling devices, was recovered 
m the raid, the FBI office in 
Pittsburgh said in a statement. 

Altomare, 35, of Weirton, has been prosecuting attorney for two years. He w,a~ indicted on two counts of racketeerin~ involving bribery and obstruction of jus­tice, one count of obstructing a grand jury investigation and one count of conspiracy to obstruct local law enforcement. 
Altomare was released on a $50,000 unsecured bond after appearing yesterday before a 
U.S. magistrate in Wheeling.· 
If convicted, he faces up to 50 years in prison and $75,000 in fines. 
His chief investigator, Joseph Aperfine, 48, of Weirton, was charged with one count of con­spiracy to promote racketeering. He was released on a $25,000 unsecured bond. Ifconvicted, he could receive five years in prison and $20,000 in fUies. 
Senior class 
sponsors Hockey Night 

The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's senior classes Will be sponsoring a Senior Hockey Night on Saturday, Feb. 17, when Notre Dame takes on Minnesota. Free Blue Line Club passes will be available for seniors, and tickets may be purchased today, tomorrow, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday in the LeMans lobby from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. and in the frrst floor of LaFortune from 12 noon to 1 p.m. 
could come from ''chemical frres" on the surface or in the very hot and dense lower atmos­phere near the surface. 
They said the frres could be fueled by reactions involvihg sulphur compounds or from the heated or electrically charged surfaces of the probe craft them­selves. 
-~­

---------..... 
The Observer Thursday, February 8, 1979 -page 13 
Court pertnits kidney transplant 
SAN ANTONIO, Texas (AP)-A state appeals coun cleared the way yesterday for a mentally retarded girl to give her 14-year­old brother the kidney doctors say he needs to stay al1ve. 
The 4th Court of Civil Appeals had been asked--in what attor­neys said was the first appeal of its kind in Texas--to decide if 14-year-old Steve Little of Seguin could receive the life­saving kidney from his 15-year­old sister, Anne. 
A Guadalupe County probate court order Nov. 17 allowed Anne's parents to consent to the operation after doctors deter­mined that Anne is the only person with an acceptable kidney for her brother. 
An attorney appointed to rep­resent Anne's legal interests, however, appealed the order, because he believed the probate court lacked the authority to grant it. 
Administration defends right to punish 
WASfllNGTON [AP] -The Carter administration defended its right to punish companies which violate voluntary price and wage guidelines established in the anu-inflation battle. 
Questions about enforcing Pre­sident Carter's anti-inflation pro­gram were raised anew as Alfred 
E. Kahn, his chief inflation adviser, disclosed that more than 200 of the Fortune 500 companies · the nation's largest -have promised compliance with the price standards. 
Kahn, chairman of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, also said that most recently negoti­ated major labor contracts have been well within the 7 percent wage guideline. "It is obvious to me that both management and labor are taking the standards seriously," he said. 
Four companies, however, are asking for exceptions to the guidelines, said Jack Triplett, the council's assistant director for price monitoring. He said another 16 firms have asked for extensions of the Feb. 15 dead­line for submitting price data to the government. 
Tnplett declined to identify the com~anies. The requests are pending. 
Kahn's testimony yesterday before a House banking sub­committee was in res{'Onse to criticism by the Amencan Bar Association of the administra­tion's voluntary wage and price guidelines. 
The ABA had echoed the General Accounting Office's assertion Monday that the admi­nistration lacks legal authority to impose sanctions against recalci­trant companies. 
The ABA' s economic resources controls committee released a study disputing the notion that Carter's wage and price plan is voluntary. 
Instead of depending on volun­tary compliance, the complex plar depends ''on a fear of gov~rnment retaliation,'' it said. 
Kahn insisted, however, that "our lawyers tell us it's legal." He cited a previous Justice Department opinion which urheld the legality of the portion 
o the program involving govern­ment contracts. 
The anti-inflation program is "in a very large measure, volun­tary," Kahn said. But he acknowled~ed that maybe "voluntary' wasn't the nght 
CINCINNATI lAP}-His attor­neys call him a samt, but the judicial system here has conclud­ed that the Rev. Maurice McCrackin is a sinner for failing to answer questions from a local grand jury. 
"It's not that easy to under­stand his moral conditions. It's been a long time since anyone read the Sermon on the Mount and applied it to the judicial system,'' concluded Robert Newman, attorney for the 73­year-old McCrackin. 
Newman has ftled a motion to at least temporarilY. free the minister, who was jailed Jan. 19. McCrackin was fot.md in con­tempt of coun for refusing to answer questions from a Hamil­ton County grand jury about three prison esca('ees who alleg­edly kidnapped him and another man last November. 
Currently, he is hospitalized for intravenous feeding because he refused to eat after entering jail. 
After escaping from a deputy sheriff, three inmates from the Southern Ohio Correctional Facil­ity at Lucasville fled to Cincinnati with a hostage who they left at McCrackin's house, police said. The hostage and McCrackin were tied up, but unhun, and the prisoners left in McCrackin's car, according to police. 
Two of the escapees were later captured. The third was killed by a man he had taken hostage in Michigan. 
''How can ·I go and testify against a prisoner when it is the state of Ohio that is responsible for the vast injustice, degrada­tion and horror that is Lucas-
ville?" said McCrackin, a long­
time prison reform advocate. 
''Appearing (before the jury) would be a moral compromise that I am not prepared to make.'' 
McCrackin has termed his decision not to testify "a matter of conscience. '' o£ficials have had to wheel him into coun. 
''I've never met anyone quite like him,'' said Kelly Chapman, an inmate sentenced to the Lucasville prison for aggravated robbery. "In fact, I thought some ofthe prisoners used to use him-try to get things from him. 
''But Reverend Mac is the type of guy who doesn't care about being used. The old man is just solid good." 
Being good has never been enough to keep McCrackin out of trouble, and he has never been a person to be careful. 
He spent six months in prison in 1959 for refusal to respond to summons instigated by the Inter­nal Revenue Service. 
He said he had not paid all or any income taxes smce 1948 "because I believe war to be a crime against God and humanity and because I want to give my IQoney to works of peace and reconciliation. '' 
Dealer school for sophomores to be held · 
The Sophomore Oass en­courages all those who wish to be dealers for their booth to attend the dealers' school at 10 p.m. tonight in LaFortune Theatre with the off-campus students. 
-

The Finance Gub sponsored a lecture bv William H. Darrow, Vice President ofNew York's chemical bank, last night at the Hayes-Healy center. [photo by Bob Gt/1] 
SU plans /***************: 
: only six a
ND-UCLA 

a DAYS LEFT a 
pompom sale 

: TO : 
The Student Union has an-* * nounced plans to sell pompoms : SCREW : as pan of the UCLA Bruin * * weekend. ~e green and gold :YOUR ROOMMATE: pompoms will be sold for 50 cents ,.. * at the dining halls, the pep rally ·* * 
and before the game. ·'***************~ 


Sr. Class Happy Hour Friday, February 9 
3:00-6:00 at St. Mary's Snack Shop 
30~ Beers 

THESE ARE THE ARMIES OF THE NIGHT. 
Tonight they're all out to get the Warriors. 

Paramount P1ctures Presents ALawrence Gordon Product1on "THE WARRIORS" 
Executive Producer Frank Marshall Based Upon tne Novel by Sol Yunck 
Screenplay by Dav1d Shaber and Walter Hill Produced by Lawrence Gordon 
sc:H';J~i!" Directed by Wai!StH!ts Friday at li~.~l 
Mall 2:15 4:00 5:45 7:45 9:30 
Lawyer R.H. Wester Jr., who said his intent in filing the appeal was to • 'fully erotect her mter­ests' ' could further block a transplant by appealing the order to the Texas Supreme Coun. 
He could not be reached immediately for comment. 
Doctors refused to perform the transplant without coun appro­val. Steve's kidney problems began at birth when one kidney never fully developed and was removed at age five. The remaining kidney has almost ceased to function. He is on kidney dialysis three times a week. 
Steve's lawyer, W.O. Kirkendall, said doctors told him the boy needs the transplant within five months and will only survive another two years with­out one. 
FDA recalls spinach 
WASI-llNGTON (AP)-A shipment problems. of 45,000 bunches of contamina­The FDA described the recall ted spinach was destroyed before of the 1,877 canons from Baja it got to retail stores or consu­California, as ongoing. 
mers, a spokesman for Sun However, Sun World attorney World brand spinach said yester­Jim Kitch of San Francisco said 1t is "inconceivable" that any of
day. 

the pesticide-contaminated pro­
The Food and Drug Admini­stration (FDA) announced earlier duce reached the public. in the day that the spinach was Kitch said the shipment was 
being recalled because it was discovered by California agricul­contaminated with the pesticide tural officials at the U.S.-Mexico Monitor. The FDA said the border on Dec. 29, 1978, and that 
pesticide could cause "temporary the border was closed the next or medically reversible adverse day with no further pesticide­health consequences" but was sprayed spinach ~etting across. unlikely to cause serious health ''The entire shipment of spin­
ach was intercepted and de­stroyed before it got into normal word because the government distribution channels," Kitch was prepared to use economic 
said.

sanctions against those who vio­late the standards. 
No FDA officials could be ''These are compulsions that reached late yesterday to explain are purely economic,'' Kahn why the spinach recall had been said. "I'm not disposed to fmd described as ongoing when Sun another word for voluntary. . .I World said the produce had been 
don't want to think of another seized and destroyed before dis­adjective.'' tribution. 
Rev .McCrackin opposes judicial system 

-
The Observer -Sports 

c A C R 0 5 S :u. Point u! ~a. Wnath view 44. "Oodlea"R 1." Tree cover-23. Skin rrowtha 46. Lepl paper 
inr 24. Health7:0 &. Small rem-3 wdL nant 26. Mother: 
s 
10. Radium dia-Spanlah 
coverer 29. State of 
11. Become hap. unreats pier: 2 wda. 33. Orchestra 
13. Diaplay Instrument
w 14. Violent, riot. 34. June 6,1944: oua action hyph. wd. 
0 16. Stagger 35. Actreu Weat 
16. -on, talk 36. StatuteR about incea-37. Paint layer 
santly 38. Blood veaael D 17 Young fellow 39• Was 
· humb~: 
s 
18. Ozone 2 wda. 
19. 
Pier 41. Monte­

20. 
Deadly 42. Gain knowl­quarrel edge anew 


D 0 W N 
1. 
Dreaaer 

2. 
Take into cuatody 

3. 
Coin of Iran 

4. 
Solution 

5. 
Voracioua 


fish 
8. Rope fiber 
7. 
Corded fabric 

8. 
Pencil part 

9. 
Crude boat 

10. 
Payload 

11. 
Very early morninc: 3wda. 

12. 
Hanra 


16. Derisive lauch 
19. 
Blockhead: . alanc 

20. 
Rural abode 


22. 
Attract 

23. 
Cautioua 


26. Marab fuel 
26. 
Grindlnc tooth 

27. 
Lellftna 

28. 
Succeed: 2wda. 


30. Iaaue 
81. 
Caucht, aa a fuaitive 

82. 
Opera hero 


84. Entra­
87. 
Bird'• crop 

88. 
Weiltllereock 


40. ~bet 
U.Bouder 
Answers 
Molarity 
... Tripucka 
[continued from page 16] 
Dame player in double figures, but Mike Mitchell came off the bench to score seven big points, including 3-3 from the field. Woolridge and Branning had six apiece. 
Austin's 16 points led the Wolfpack, and Matthews scored 
12. Whitney, who leads N.C. State in scoring at 19.7 per!ame, could only connect on 3-1 from the floor for six points. Solid defense by Notre Dame, and especially by Hanzlik, kept Whitney off balance all night. 
For State coach Norm Sloan, it was another close loss in a disappointing season. 
"We're having a hard time getting the right bounces,' ' Sloan said. ''At the end, we had the right shot with the right guy (Whitney). We just can't seem to get oye~.the hump. I still think we wtii.­
The Irish face another tough game this Sunday, as the fourth­ranked UCLA Bruins invade the ACC at 1 p.m. 
Irish box score 
NOTRE DAME [53) Woolridge 1 4-4 6, Tripucka 48-816, Lalmbeer 20-0 4, Branning 3 0-0 6, Hanzlik 1 1-2 3, Wilcox 2 o-o 4, Jackson 21-1 5, Flowers 1 o-o 2, Mitchell 3 1-2 7, Totals 19 15-17 53. 
N.C. STATE [52) Pinder 23-3 7, Whitney 3 D-2 6, Sud hop 0o-oo. Austin 8D-116, Warren 0 0-0 0, Matthews 6 o-o 12, Watts 2 2-4 6, Jones 1o-o 2, Nevitt 0o-o 0, Parzych 11-1 3, Totals 23 6-11 52. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 31, N.C. State 29. Fouled out-Watts. Total fouls-Notre Dame 11. N.C. State 16. A-12,400. 
. 

Gymnasts open· first season 
For the last three years from September to March, the Notre Dame Gymnastics Club has met in the Rockne Memorial, practi­cing two and one-half hours daily, five days a week. Last Saturday the men's team saw the first fruits of their patience and labors, as they captured a third place in their ftrst meet ever: a four-way meet against School­craft, Eastern Michigan Universi·· 
Michael Molinelli 
ty, and Central Michigan Univer­sity. 
Led by the coaching of Mark Woodford, several gymnasts turned in fine performances. 
Freshman Dave Petrillo and sophomore Steve Reifenberg led the team on the floor exercise, scoring a 7,05 and 6.35 respect­ively, and capturing fifth and seventh places overall, respect­ively. Freshman Luis deLeon was the team's sole competitor on the pommel horse--he man­aged a very respectable fifth place. 
On the rings, Joe Skovira scored a hard-earned 4.8; John Paulik's impressive iron cross helped him attain his 5.65 mark. 
Dave Petrillo led the team in vaulting with a handspring vault worth 8.3 points and a third place overall. He was followed closely by Bob Meehan, Brain McLaugh­lin and Dan ~li:k>wley. 
Skovira led the scoring on the parallel bars. Commenting after­wards in reference to the some­what antiquated equipment m use at the Rock, Skovira re­marked, "It was a great feeling to get up on p-bars that didn't move out from under me when I threw a trick.'' 
Finally, on high bar, Mclaugh­lin and Meehan did quite well on what was considered to be their weakest event. 
What was really impressive about this gymnastics meet was that this young team managed to do so well des,J?ite the less-than­adequate facilities available at the Rock. For nearly half of the team, this meet was the first time in which they had thrown a routine on a regulation-sized floor mat. Also, it was the first time for the high bar and rings men to work on free-standing apparatus. 
Under the sponsorship of Coach Noel O'Sullivan, this co-ed club was started three years ago. Since its founding it has grown and improved steadily. Although the Gymnastics Club has re­ceived no financial aid, by sd~ing programs and running a food booth, the members raised enough money to hire Woodford, a Ball State graduate, to coach them. 
With Woodford's enthusiasm and encouragement, these gym­nasts have learned some new and more difficult tricks and routines. 
This ftrst meet for the men's team served to demonstrate both their ability and potential. 


---~--~------------­
-~­
.' 
·. 

!he Observer -Sports ·.Thursday, F:ebruary ~,)~79: -:pag~ ·is· 
Wotnen fencers claitn four \\Tins 
by Gregory Solman this year, and we've worked hard fencing· coach of the Tri-State Assistant Sports Editor so far-,'' commented new senior team she helped defeat. captain Karen Lacity, who went Substitutes with 2-1 winning 
For the Notre Dame women's 7-2 last weekend in one of -the .records. were Terrie Foley, Liz fencing team this year, a radical three top slots ofthe foil position. Bathon, and Sue Behnke. change in personnel did not mean "We're all looking fotward to a an end to their winning tradition. wonderful year." 
Last weekend at Tri-State Uni­Other top foils earned equally 
Rowing club
versity in Angola, Indiana, the as impressive victories this week­fencers won all of their matches, end for Coach Mike DiCicco's 
meets

defeating Milwaukee Tech, squad. Dodee Carney, a junior Cleveland State, Wisconsin Park­seeing her first year of competi­There will be a mandatory 
general meeting for all membersside, and Tri-State. tion here went 9-0. Carney is a of the Notre Dame Rowing ClubNot a bad debut for a team that first year transfer from the on Sunday, February 4, at 7:30
just a year ago had completely University of Virginia. Marcella different fencers in the top spots, Lansford, a freshman, also won PM in the auditoriwn on the main including graduated Kathy Val­seven of her nine matches. floor of LaFortune. The topics to diserri who captained the team Lansford, however, has been be discussed will be the Florida 
trip and the racing schedule.
for three years. fencing for six rears now. under "We have a brand new team the tutelage o her father, the Everyone must attend this meet­
ing 

~. A "~d Slam':.Pep Rally f~r·UCLA. pep rally the Notte Dame;UCLA. game -will be held · t.his S~tui-day ..nigftt,Feb!'W{Y 10 · at 7 p.m. (n' the
Saturday· ACC. pit. ·~ests· Will include· 
Coach ,Digger Phelps·,. the -Irish basketbaln~. die. ·ND· Band, 
'and a spec~ s.u'rprise guest. · 
NUMBER OF DAvs·
rates 

1 ·:z 3 4 5 
Ill 
0 
1-10 1.00 

1.30 1.75· 2.00 2.25. 0 11-15 1.40 1.85 2.. 50 2.80 3.15 ~ 16-20 1.80 2.40 3.25 3.60 4.05 u. 21-25 2.20 2.95 4.00 4.40 5.10 0 26-30 
Ill: 

2.60 3.50 4.75 5.20 6.15 
Ill: 
31-35 3.05 

4.10 5.55 6.20 7.20·
w 

Ill 36-40 3.50 4.70 6.35 7.20 8.25' ~ 41-45 3.95 5.30 7.1S 8.20 9.30 ::;) 46-50 4.40 5.90 7.95 9.20 10.35
z 

PAYMENT. All classifieds must be pre-pai·d, either in person or through the mail · 
Classifieds 
Notices 
Gay students of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Gay Information line 8870 · Call Friday February 9-10 p.m.-mldnl~ht.Saturday February 10 p.m.-mldnlg t or write P.O. Box 206 
Accurate. fast typing. Mrs. Bedford 288·2107 Hours: 8 am to 5 pm 
Ski bus trip to Boyne country $86 Includes lodging, meals, lift tickets and trans­portatlon. Leave Fri. Feb. 23 at 5 p.m. return Sun. Feb 25 p.m. sponsor· Bendix Woods Ski Patrol contact Corky Patton 234·9307 
Hap~y Hour! Fridays from 3-6, Pandora's Is o ferlng a 2 for 1 sale on used book. Located behind N.D. apts. 233-2342 
Attention all Logan volunteers: There Is a ve~ big game against the L~n staff on hursday February 8 at 
9: fe.m. Come to pia_,;, or to supflort ~our allow volunteers. he game wll be 
eld at the Logan Center g~m. Anyquestions or problems call uckles at 3064 
Experienced ~f-'st will do typing out of home. Call 2 -1401 
Attention all Logan volunteers and Inter· ested students! This Friday, February 9th, from 7:30­
10:00 p.m. Is the annual Valentines Day Dance for the mentally'rtandlca~ped kids and adults of the community. he dance Is 111 the Logan Center cafeteria, and the live band Is Paglls, an excellent rock group. So come ~In on the fun, refreshments, and le down. Help the kids have agreat time! No admission 
char~e. 
Ot er Logan activities: Bowling Friday 
3:20-6:00 p.m. (Meet at NO Library 
circle). Saturday rec this Saturda~ from 
Need 3 UCLA tickets! Call Herb at 3060. AnxJously awaiting your call. Would like to pay you for the haircut ~ry. ~o 
Found: one student basketball ticket. Call 3608 to Identify. 
Lost: calculator Tl-30 around Feb. 2-3. Call 'BJ. 288-4152 
Lost: black "Lamy" mechanical pencil with sliver tip last Saturd~ In the South Dining Hall or Eng. Bl g. I would tplreclate ve~ much to get It back. 
uardo 288-6 40 evenings. 
Lost: one pair rimless eyeglasses gold frame. 288-4540 
Lost: Brown corduroy blazer, Friday night between Morrissey and the Grotto. If found please contact 4·1-4993 
Found: mon'::r. found on 12th floor of the Libra~ Sun ay night. Call 2172 to ldentl amount. 
For Rent 
Furnished 4-6 bedroom house for rent this fall. Walking distance to campus. Nice. Call 272·1729 after 7:00 p.m. 
House for rent 913 Cedar St. 3 bedrooms fully furnished 288-6740 evenings. 
Tired of noise and crowds? How about a view of the river! Near campus. Reasonable Rent. Call 234-2662 or 234·8402 
Available for next year-5bedroom home completely furnished. Call Nancy !;lJIJll· barger 234·9364 
For rent: Immediate occupance! 5 bed· room, 2 bath house, furnished and near Memorial hospital. 6 month lease $300 month plus utilities and security deposit. Call Bobble 233-3161 
For Rent-4-5 bedroom 2 baths available In June or there after $300 mo. 232-9498 291-4528 
Barmaid wanted ~ply In pe11on at Nickles Tues, Thru hu11. after 8 p.m. 
For Sale 
TIRES ARE FOR LOVERS MY PORSCHE,IS GONE. BOO HOO! PLEASE BUY MY SNOW TIRES* 2 STUDDED GISPAVED 155-15. Excellent condition. 2 for $40.00. 
If purchaser Is gorgeous female type 25. percent discount plus one date to movie/of her choice. If male, 10 percent markup. Call AI Paclno at 3748. If not In ask for his roommate Adonia. 
FOR SALE! Rugged Winter boots. Excellent condition. Dark brown, size 8 1/2. Call Jeff at 1525 for Information. 
FOR SALE: Marantz Amp. 70 rms watts/chan. $300 and/or Fisher speakers ($400 1 pair) call Sundance: 8916 
REFRIGERATOR FOR SALE $60 1717 • Ilk for peter 
Excelletn UCLA ticket avallaQie, padded seat, 6th row from floor, student section. Megabuck range only, 13748, call late 
Stereo: Must sell, baby on way. Sansul 9090 receiver, 125 watts channel, 2 pair of speakers, teak 250 recorder, dual turntable, Plckeri[;N XU15 Cartridge. Call evenings 6-9: 2232·1711 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed.,Sat., Sun. 9-7 Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Road Niles. 683·2888. 
Tickets 
Will ~$20 tor any UCLA GA ticket. Call Matt 7 
Need UCLA tickets, any kind. Call Rob 287-6056 
9:0D-11 :30 a.m. Corvilla formal unday 
night. Volunteers needed to help In Lost: one pair of ~lasses around Nortt Help! I need GA or Student UCLA hornestart and L~an classrooms during quad on Feb. 7 If ound call Pat, 1827. tickets. Will pay$$$. MJ 8117 
the week. Call Ike at 1371 or Sue at 4·1-4832 Top price for one UCLA ticket-try me. Greg 8855
Wanted
NOCTURNE NIGHTFLIGHT,WSND· 
89 FM JIM O'BRIEN FEATURES DAVID Need GA UCLA tlx Bill 288-m3 GILMOUR'S"DAVID GILMOUR" Need UCLA ticket· Will pay Call Pat 8410 TONIGHT. Wanted: 2 UCLA tlx G.A. or student. 
For sale-one student ticket to U.C .L.A. Jerry 1756 padded seat row 10 Call 6637 after 6:00. Ask for Bub. I'm asking $15.00 Will sell sultemates or:,ovlde much cash 
for UCLA student tl t. Call Mike at Need ride to U. of 111.-Ghampalgn on Fri. 1619.
Lost&Found 
Feb. 9 Call Mark-1441 
He~! Bobby desperately needs 4 Found: Silver ll~hter with Initials. Found Need riders to Penn State weekend of ~ dec:l seat) UCLA tlx·$$$ Please call near Memorial lbrary on 216. Call 3318 Feb. 9 Call 6141 607 to Identify. 
ST. LOUis-Ride needed for any weekend Desperately need 1 or 2 student or GA LOST:One coll,e class ring-St. John this semester to St. Louis. Will share UCLA tlx. Gall 4-1-4103 Flsher College. all 272-9841. expenses! Call Kevln-11631 
"ED HEADI·Tonlght'a till ,btl COIIII
We know something you don't know-

I'• K11111n CDAflrlncl Raom at :1111 r.m.
come to the Augusta lottery meetings. 

l111 11---ded Lllpl ta lllnll ~· • Yo 
Wanted: one or two student or G.A. Lost: Ladles top of brawn sweatsult at Need ride to Chicago Friday afternoon, UCLA tlx. Will pay good$$$$$. Call F.J. ACC·mD Feb. 9. Share conversation and ex-1222. 
penses. Please call Marybeth, 288-9049 Lost: a sterll~ Parker pen Friday In Two basketball tlx for UCLA or La either the cas ler or student account Need some xtra bread and wllll~ to Salle-call 8661. offices. If found call Bart at 1078 work? Frll. and/or Sat. Eves. ave 
openings at the Huddle. Contact the I need UCLA tickets bM!Iy. Gall Matt lost-gym clothes wrapped In ~Y sweat· Mgr. 1780 pants at South Dining Hall, urs. 211 
Call Bob 3209 OVERSEAS JOBS· Summer/year round. Wanted: UCLA tlx please call 288-9988 
Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc (John(Lost: one crutch outside of the Ubrary All fields, $500-$1200 monthly. Expenses about a week and a half~-If you've ~ld. Sightseeing. Free Into.· write: Alumnus needs 2 UCLA tlx $$$ 8656 
seen this crutch alive, call Ike at 1678 JC. Box 4490-14, Berkeley, CA 94704 
Need 2 UCLA GA tickets, Call 6117 or Lost: one ft:d watch bracllet Jut Wanted: ial LaSalle tickets. Gall 272·8359 nights. Thunday In bar ••· Call SUsan at Martbeth 4-1-4536 Help! I I1IIBd two LaSalle GA'a will trade 
Part-time help wanted. About 10 hours or negotiate Steve 8417 Found: 2 prs. ~ovea after NO Student per week In the evenll)Ys Must be 21.PI= tryouts ueaday. Call Studllnt =Inperson at the D tillery. 1723 So. Desperately need 2-4 GA tickets for U and ldenUfy. Ave. LaSalle game. Gall 38311 
All classified ads must be rece1ved by 5:00 p.ni.. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run.· The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday. 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m All cla~5ifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the ·mail.· 
oere;rately need 2 U.C.L.A. tickets ­stu ent or G.A. -call 1824 
Emergency! Need one UCLA GA or student ticket. Ray 289-8657 
Need: 4 GA B-Ball tickets to any remaining home game. Paul3115 or 3134 
Urgently need an~umber UCLA tlx. Please call Terl, 7 . 
HelpI I need tlx to UCLA-NO game. Call Anne #4236 
Need one student or GA UCLA ticket. Call Larry 8701 
Wanted: UCLA tlx. Call Ed at 1022. 
De~eratel~ need UCLA tickets. GA or stu ent Ca I Pat at 2n-3422. 
I desperately need two GA or student tickets for the UCLA ~ame. If I don't come thro~ht mJ sis er will have myhide! Call evln at 1787. 
Badly needed: UCLA tickets-student or. 
G.A. an~umber up to 5. Please!II!! Call Mike: 2 ·1071 
Personals 
Peter, 1 It may not be£unctual, but here Is your first personal. veryone deserves at least one In his/her NO experience. 
Yours In the Archives, Marybeth 
Tart the Nerd: Although l: turned down the senior clau trip tO -1 hGpeJ::::P. 778 on the 
LSAT'I made It all wo hie. Congl'lt­ulatlona cutle-you desam lt. 
Llvl, 
Mutual I'm Sure 
ORHrm "Tut," Lit'a 111 your hrHrm "rock"I 
Plm 
AMEN SISTERS: sell those raffle tlx$ 
Amen Inc. Ia. sponsoring 1 blind data ntffle -watch for llfllor girls with nttlle tlcklta. 
For goodness sake-buy a pompom so Frank LaGrotta can shut up.· 
B1dln Ia 1110"11 Valllltlne cal'lllllona fir r:::r IWIItlt. .110 IICh In Sautll Dining
I. Today thnlugh Friday. Buy nowl 
Tonlte, The Adonia Show Is a spiral of musical 
cacarchon~ Tune In for some of the best mus c In orthern Indiana, WSND, ~11 p.m. 
Robert Redford lives In Augusta. Is that reason enough to check It out? 
SMC juniors and sophomores-Now Is the time to start thinking of liVIng In Augusta next year. 
Augusta Is a musta! 
Let the Bruins see green and gold all day. Buy your pompoms at the Dining_ Halls ­50 cents. 
R.C. 

Hey you­ ·  .  
Wanna  frolic· In  the  show?  Let  me  
know.  
Me  

P.S. I found your mittens. 
Attention Army ROTC Drill Team Com­mander: . 
credit. · · · 
Rent~a-teen 

BRAD THE. VEiJ 
Who says nobody ever sent you a personal. Here's to hamburgers· and carnivores 
Marlbeth 

Emil: A ve~ ·special and beautiful woman knows a I about you and yourstrands of spit. · · Apollo
P.S. Anyone for peanuts? 
I can't reverse It, you have uno!! I 
TO 

Who will reign a$ Ugly Man of' '79 80???? Save your pennies! 
When all are pa~lng down say SlegflredIs not to be foun . Metro 5minus 1 
Pumpkin, · Hap~ 19th!' Does this make you an apprent ce adult? . 
Klmbleand Dave, Many thanks again for your· part ·In helpln~ us have ·a great weekend. We 
appree ate It lots. . · A and B(alias Sing and Sank) 
John, If you're asenior, where· do you hide at night. It can'tbe Senior Bar. T 
Happy 20th Birthday John "Curly"Horner. . . . Love, Dannie, Kathie, Katy and Linda 
Dear Bear, Well, here It Is, your own personal. lt'a only the beginning. 
Sleeping Beauty 

To B.V. In the little rltaw lemon, Thanks lor a tour o the campus. · Krash Kars Sister and Co. 
Don't forget: Student Union Pompom sale for UCLA game 50 cents at dining halls 
J:il. Y• may brtnga frlllld who 1'111 at 
rt.) 

C• Bill Beny emil ......,.. and pick atrawbln1al at till un time? Find oat Friday at I In 107 Kllllltl. 
KatB • You're ln. Red. 

..l~ 
~D 

F~ 
A7 this Friday Is adinner next Friday. ~­the spoon 
. ~ 

Thursday, February 8, 1979-page 16
S12orts 
Freshman icer shows class 
by Mike Henry Sports Wn"ter 
·For a freshman, the melange of activity at Notre Dame can be head-spinning. Incoming students are presented with a plethora of sporting events, many cultural and social opportunities, and, sometimes, academic pres­sures equal to those of the most austere mstitutions. If this young person happens to be a highly­touted hockey player fresh from service in the Provincial Junior A League, (one of the most respec­
. ted junior leagues north of the border), you must wonder if he will be overwhelmed by the enormity of it all. 
Harbor no such fears about rookie sensation Dave Poulin, the captivating youngster from Mis­sissauga, Ontario, who has per­formed like a seasoned veteran of the rugged WCHA. Displaying bold rink-long rushes and a deft touch around the net, he has vaulted to a position among the league's top ten scorers with twenty-two goals and twenty assists. He and his linemates, fellow freshmen Bill Rothstein and Jeff Perry, have shown such a measure of savoir faire that they can be considered freshman only in the literal 
sense. 
Despite his immediate success on the ice, however, the 5' 10", 170 pound center is modest and of what he has wrought in the WCHA, a league not noted for outstanding freshman perfor­mances. Don't let this down­playing of his talents deceive you, though, for this is a young man supremely confident of his skills when he laces his skates. 

''I really felt no pressure to do well from the first day of prac­tice," Poulin relates. "Bill, Jeff and I were put together on the second day with the knowledge that Coach Smith had great faith in our abilities. Out styles are very complimentary and we were able to help out right from the start.'' 
With Poulin's line carrying more than their share of the load, the graceful acrobatics of Dave's roommate, Dave Laurion, in the nets, and the inspiration provi­ded by captains Schneider, Meredith and Michalek, the Irish broke from the gate like a drugged thoroughbred, and eventually climbed to the top spot in the nation for: one euphoric week. While their sltu?Y of the past few weeks is mystitying, no one is pointing an accusing finger at Poulin. 
"Dave is probably the best all-arouncf player on the squad," gushes Irish assistant coach Ric 
Shafer. "He's capable in all skills, and has cat­quick reactions and anticipates where the puck is going to be. His size may be his only real 

unassuming, seemingly unaware drawback. If Dave can keep his 
SM C swimmers split 
by Beth Menke Sports Wnter 

.. The Saint Mary's swim team got its feet wet for the first time this season on Friday night, while the majority of students were wetting their thirsts after the long week of classes. The squad of fifteen swimmers and two divers travelled to DePauw Uni­versity for a triangular meet with the host school and the Univer­sity of Evansville. The result was bittersweet. The Belles triumphed over Evansville by a score of 68 to 60. Unfortunately, for the Belles, DePauw proved itself to be the strongest team, easily out­swimming St. Mary's by an 82-46 margin. Ellen Crowe, a returning sophomore qualified in two out of three events for the Midwest Regionals to be swum at Michi­gan State, March 1, 2, and 3. Crowe qualified in the 100 meter backstroke event with a time of 1:10.0, and in the 50 meter backstroke with an excellent 31.8 seconds. In her third event, the 1"0 meter I.M. (individual 
medley), Ellen missed the quali­fying time by one second. Sophomore Peggy O'Brien and Crowe were the two members on the team to qualify for the regional meet last year. They were the first two swimmers from St. _Mary's ever to qualify for a reg10nal meet. -· 
The Belles are coached by Jane Lammers, who also returns for her second year with the swim team. Lammers is originally from Dayton, Ohio, where she be~an her ten year competitive swimming career. Jane finished competing at the University of Notre Dame, where she became a monogram swimmer before graduating. 

At Friday's meet, the St. Mary's divers put on a very fine show to win some big points for the team. Sophomore, Patty Meagher captured first place a~ainst both DePauw and Evans­vllle in her event. Sara Wagner, a freshman, placed second against Evansville and third agai~st DePauw. Both girls practice at the Rockne Memorial pool at ND, as St. Mary's doesn't have diving facilities. 
Sponsor helps volleyball team 
The first men's power volley­ball team in Notre Dame history has been organized this year, thanks to a donation from ] ohn O'Hanlon of O'Hanlon's Ware­house liquors. 
University policy is to not recognize a club sport in its first year until the team can prove ttself. Since no university funds were available, O'Hanlon deci­ded to sponsor the team. 
The team has been accepted into the Midwest Interc_o~giate Volleyball Association (MIVA). The team will be coached by Mel Goralski, who also coached the Notre Dame women's volleyball club. Goralski was named India­na Volleyball Coach of the Year after his ] unior team won the National Title. 
The schedule for the first year team is demanding. The Irish have been placed in the western division of the lv1IVA, competing against teams like Ohio State, Ball State, Indiana, Purdue, Kel­log, Michigan, Michigan State, and Western College. The season runs from February 3 to April 14. 
play at this high level and some other players return to form, we'll be a definite threat in the play-offs.'' _ 
Poulin has settled in nicely despite the oft-times frantic pace at dulac. "I was unsure what to expect when I came to Notre Dame," he admits. "However, it's been very easy for me to adjust to the everyday routine a ~ockey player must go through. I JUSt love the closeness of the Notre Dame community--for a school with such a good athletic reputation, I was surprised and delighted with it's intunacy." 
Notre Dame fans are equally surprised and delighted with the contributions made by this affable Canuck. And while his presence won't be enjoyed by Irish rivals. They will come to expect seeing his arms upraised in celebration. He is certain to stir Irish imaginations for the next three years. 


Irish prevail, 53-52 

Free throws by Tripucka nip State 
_ byMarkPeny 
Ass£stant Sports Ed£tor 
and 
Father}ohn Feeney 
Special Correspondent 
RAlEIGH, N.C.--Notre Dame survived a poor shootin~ night, a tenacious North Carolma State defense, and a hyped-up Carolina crowd to defeat the Wolfpack, 53-52, at Reynolds Coliseum last night. 
Two clutch free throws by Kelly Tripucka, who led the Irish with 16 points, iced the ga.me for the visitors. Tripucka has now hit on 25 consecutive free throws, 11 short of the Notre Dame record held Austin Carr. 

Hustle like -this has made Dave Poulin [15] a success in his first y 
[photo by john Macor] ear. 
Moments earlier, with the Irish jumpers by Kenny Matthews 
leading 51-50, Charles brought State to· within one, ''Hawkeye'' Whitney tried to put 47-46, with 8:26 remaining. 
State ahead on a jumper from The Irish fought back on a basket 
inside the free throw line, but by Rich Branning, but a quick 
Tripucka rebounded the missed basket by Art Jones made the 
shot and was fouled with six score 49-48. 
seconds left. The Irish used a slow down Whitney scored an uncon­game at this point, and with 3:03 tested lay-up with two seconds left, Orlando Woolridge was left, but the Irish let the clock fouled after rebouning his own expire. missed shot. The win boosted Notre Dame's The "Tree" sank the free 
record to 17-2, as they handed throws to put the Irish up by 
the Wolfpack, 15-8, their first three once again, but Clyde "the 
non-conference home loss since Glide'' Austin, who led the 
1968, against Georgia. Wolfpack with 16 points, retaliat­The Irish led by as many as ed wlth a long jumper at the 2:48 nine points in the second half, mark. but four consecutive long The Irish slowed the pace once 
again, but Bill Hanzlik was called for traveling on a drive up the middle, and State had the ball back with 31 seconds left. 
The Wolfpack waited until eight seconds were left before Whitney took his shot, rebounded by Trip~cka to set up the winning char1ty tosses. 
''Hitting the fir-St free throw kind of took the pressure off,'' Tripucka said of his last two shots. ''Once you hit the first one, you kind of feel like the second will go." 
Tripucka connected on ei~ht straight from the line, countenng a 4-13 shooting night from the floor. The Irish, who lead the nation in field goal percentage at over 56 percent, could only connect on 19-49, 39 percent. Strong defense by State forced the visitors to take a lot of outside shots, and Notre Dame couldn't find the range for most of the game. · 
Irish Coach Digger Phelps said he thought Notre Dame ''played a smart game plan. We didn't want to get in a running game with them." ­
Neither team could shoot well in the first half, as the Irish connected on 35.5 percent, which 
N.C. State hit only 46 percent. 
But 9 of 10 first half free throws by Notre Dame gave the Irish a 31-29 halftime lead. 
' 'State is an explosive team with a lot of firepower," Phelps said. ''I thought that pulling them out of the zone and controll­ing the tempo were the keys to the game. We were just not shooting well against the zone." 
Tripucka was the only Notre 
[continfled on page 14] 






