. Interview with Hesburgh -p.6
' 
' 

Iranians attack US Embassy 
''We have a larger staff this year, TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -Rene­
by Sue Wuetcht·r and we did a lot more work over sade guerrillas shot their w~y the summer.'' 
Senior StaffReporter_
mto the U.S. Embassy, antt·· He stated that the staff S,PentAmerican gangs were reported about $30,000 in renovauons,roaming the streets and bloody Senior Bar Manager Mike which included building tables 
factional fishting erupted in a Schlageter yesterday denied al­and chairs, putting in a sidewalk provincial ctty yesterday as Iran's legations that he wasted money and food sales, repainting the new government struggled to by holding a party for Senior Bar entire inside and outside of the keep control of this troubled employees at the Moonraker building, and rebuilding and nanon. Restaurant. The group-of 27 repaneling the basement walls. 
Fightmg in the northwestern employees and three managers When questioned about the city of Tabriz took hundreds of ran up a bill of $1~50. actual amount of money spent at lives, Iranian journalists report· "I consider the party a type of the party, Schlageter admitted 
cd. bonus, a thank-you to the em­that the fi~e was "a little high, 
Sources in Washinsron said ployees for the year so far and for but now it s after the fact." He the Carter administration coming back one week early to also pointed out that for parties of planned to launch a new mass renovate the bar at the end of the more that ten people the Moon­evacuation of Americans from summer," Schlageter said. "I raker automaucalllX adds a 15 
figure the average person lost percent gratuity. • That in itselfIran this weekend. 
At the heart of majar new $200 in summer wages by coming was $25~," he said. violence was refusal back that week, and they worked '• I think the argument is weak
the by here without pay,'' he added. if you're talking about moneyrebellious supporters of Schlageter noted that he does spent. These people are entitled
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, a w1dely diverse political group, to not think anyone will argue with to something, be it money or 
his decision. • 'I had the option of something else. We got cheapturn in their arms now tht paying people for the summer labor, and the bar benefits," heKhomeini's anti-shah movement work the party,"
has succeeded in gaining power. or havin~ he stressed. 
explained. 'I esttmate the The dinner was cleared byThe Khomeini camp blamed the average person put in $400 worth Dean of Students, James Roem­embassy attack on communists. 
of free labor. I feel the bar came er, Schlageter noted. Adding, heScores of unidentified gunmen out better in the long run.'' agreed to the party for the samemounted the mid-morning Schlageter acknowledgc;d that reasons I gave, although heassault on the square-block U.S. 
the group spent more this year didn't set an amount. We gaveEmbassy compound with bursts than last year's employees did at him an estimate of $1 ,000. " of heavy machine-gun fire. They the yearly dinner. "We did Roemer was out of town andwound.::d rwo Marine guards, spend more,'' he said, explaining unavailable for comment.
charged into the embassy and took Ambassador William Sullivan and 101 other Americans hostage. 
Armed Pro-Khomeini men 

Officials aim to reduce 
then appeared and drove the 
insurgents from the badly dam­
aged compound in a 3 1/2-hour 

handgun black market
This gambler cominues his winning streak at Mardi Gras. 
gun battle. 
[photo by Dave Rumbach) 
When the embassy was at­
by Mike Shields serious.
tacked, most of the Americans · Senior 'Staff Reporter Everyone feels a need for 

took refuge in Sullivan'~ o~ce 
protection," he said, "but own­and a top-secret commurucattons It is ''very easy'' to get a stolen mg a gun can be a detriment, too. 

center while 19 Marine guards As police attempt' rescue . 

handgun in South Bend, accord­You read about children shooting fired into the air and tried . ing to Lt. Joseph Molnar of the themselves all the time.'' 
unsuccessfully to stop the at­St. Joseph County Sheriff De­''The availability of guns

Kidnappers shoot Dubstackers with tear gas, officials partment. makes a small man a big man.

said. 

Molnar said it is possible to Guns are the ~reat.equalizer. It'sAn unidentified Iranian em­. NEW DELHI, India (AP) -'Ilte American ambassador to buy a handgun for only $25 in all psychologtcal,'' he continued, ployee of the embassy was re· Afghanistan, Adolph Dubs, was fatally wounded yesterday when South Bend's large black market addin~ that someone might beported killed. Marine Sgt. Ken rulice firing automatic weapons stormed a hotel room where Moslem trade in guns. more mclined to commit acrirneKraus, 22, was hit by a metal gunmen were holding him hostage in the Afghan capital of Kabul. 
To buy a handgun legally from when in possession of a gunfragment in the forehead and U.S. diplomats in Pakistan said the kidnappers, who were not a licensed dealer, a South Bend because it provided the owneranother Marine was grazed by a identified, sought the release of three Shiite Moslem clergymen who resident needs three letters of with extra self-confidence.
bullet. Embassy officials said were recently arrested by the leftist Afghan government. 

character recommendation and Joe Camarda, a Notre Dame
both men were only slightly Official Kabul Radio said the four kidnappers shot Dubs when police must have no felony convictions was shot
student, during anwounded. charged into the room, reportedly after firing a 60-second barrage on his record, according to Lt. attempted burglary of his homeDuring the attack, embassy through the door and from across the street. 

Floyd Coffman of the South Bend in December. 
technicians burned or blew up an The station said Dubs was in critical condition when police reached Police Department. Molnar also saw the situationestimated $500,000 worth of him and he died in the embassy dispensary. The station also said all A prospective gun purchaser as serious, but said he felt • 'we communications and coding four kidnappers were killed, but an American who witnessed the also must supply a gOOd reason do not need a federal mandate for equipment. They set fire to a assault said one kidnapper was captured. 

for owning a handgun, Coffman the control of ftrearms.'' He said number of secret documents. ''He was brought down the stairs fighting and kept trying to raise a said. Legitimate purchasers · states should control handguns,But some classified material was le~ to kick one of his captors in the groin,'' said Sandy Stiebel of range from homeowners desiring with only "creditable citizens"believed to have been left behind Highland Park, Ill., in an tnterview. Mrs. Stiebel's husband, Mayer, protection from intruders to bus­being allowed to carry handguns. 
in offices penetrated by the said police fired into the windows and through the door for a full messmen who carry large sums Molnar cited an Indiana law,attackers. minute before rushing in. 

of money, he added. which went into effect last July, In Washington, State Depart· "It was a demolished room afterward, fllled with gunsmoke with a "We do not approve every that weapons confiscated afterment spokesman Hodding Carter lot of blood on the floor,'' he added. 
application for a (handgun) per­use in a crime must be turnedsaid: • 'I have good reason to President Carter and his wife, Rosalyn, ·en route to Mexico, mit we get,'' Coffman stated. over to the sheriff's departmentbelieve that sensitive material telephoned Dubs' widow in Washmgton trom Air Force Once to Gun permits, which cost $5, are to be sold at auction instead of was safeguarded by necessary express their sympathy. Carter issued a statement saying, "The act approved by the chief of police. being destroyed. 
measures and did not fall into of brutality which took his life has deprived our nation of one of ~ts There is aalso mandatory Previously weapons were cuttheir (the attackers') hands." .. most able public servants.'' . 
seven-day waitin~ period be­into pieces, hammered out ofGuerrillas loyal to Khomemt Kabul Radio said the kidnap,Pers, disguised as traffic police, pulled rween the time an mdividual pays shape or melted.
said those who attacked the Dubs' chauffeur-driven limousme over yesterday morning, seized him for a handgun and the time he However, Superior Counembassy in Tehran_were commu­and took him to the Kabul Hotel in the center of the Afghan capital. 

receives the weapon. The wet:k' s Judge Norman Kopec said thatnists. One of the attackers also Once there they communicated their demands to authorities. 
delay allows a check to be run on his orders to destroy guns weresaid communists took part in the Moslem mullahs, or clergymen, reportedly haye played a prominent the buyer's criminal record. The not always followed. "I don'tassault. role in sporadic outbreaks of insurgency in eastern Afghanistan a~stomer also is fingerprinted want any gun I ordered destroyed A reliable source in Washing­against the· pro-Soviet government of President Noor Mohammad upon purchasing a gun. showing up again,'' he said,ton who asked not to be identified-Taraki, which seized power in a bloody coup last April. Coffman called the handgun 
[continued on P:Tge 4] [continued on page 10] situation in South Bend • 'very [continued on page 8] 



-~------------------------~-------------------------------------------­
• 


News in brief 
Carter plans evacuation of Americans in Iran 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Carter Administration plans to resume mass evacuation of Americans from Iran this weekend with the ultimate goal of airlifting 5,000 from the embattled country, it was learned yesterday. U.S. officials said 1,700 of the nearly 7,000 Americans still in Iran are prepared to leave immediately. The Tehran airpon, kept shut by the new ~~_gime of the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeiru as it tnes to solidity its control, is expected to be reopened Saturday after observances of religious holidays. · 
Official predicts oil shortage 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Deputy Energy Secretary John F. O'Leary predicts a shonage of imported oil within two to six years and says the United States is in bad shape to deal with a resulting energy crisis. O'Leary, meet:ing with reponers yesterday, predicted leans new government will restrain oil production to save some of its one major resource, petroleum, for its future economic development. Other present or _potential oil exponers, including Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and MeXICO, may make' similar decisions, O'Leary said. 
Cuban court finds two 
guilty ofmurder 
WASHINGTON (AP) . Two anti-Castro Cubans were convicted of murder yesterday in the assassination of Chilean dissient Orlando Letelier, and a third was found guilty of tying ~o U.S.·authorities about the crime. Guillermo Novo Sampol and Alvin Ross Diaz both were convicted of five murder counts and face maximum life terms and could face life terms at a sentencing date later. Guillermo Novo also was convicted on two counts of lying to a grand jury with each count carrying a maximum five-year prison term. Ignacio Novo Sampol faces a maximum 13 years in prison after his conviction on two counts of lying to a _grand jury and one count of covering up the crime. 
Drug may cure acne 
BOSTON (AP) -A drug related to Vitamin A reportedly shows tremendous promise in treating acne, the disfiguring malady which can scar the ~aces of its youthful victims. "It's the most exciting drug for acne ever seen,'' said Peter E. Pocki, a Boston University School Of Medicine professor. ''This may actually be the cure for acne.'' In experiments at the dermatology branch of the National Cancer Institute, the drug-a variation of the active form of Vitamin A -completely cleared up severe, disfiguring acne .in.13.or ~4 volunteers and was 75 percent effective in the rerruunmg pattents. 

Weather 

Ooudy witha 50 percent chance oflight rain today. Highs in d1e mid to upper 30'. Becoming windy and turning sharply colder at night. Rain changing to snow. Lows around 10. Windy tomorrow and bitterly cold with snow. Temperatures falling into the single digits. 
4 pm·-WORKSHOP, ''what can i do with a liberal arts major?,'' sponsored by the career development center, STUD. ACT. CONF. RM. IE MANS 
4 pm--SEMINAR, ''electric transport and photogeneration in disordered organic solids," by dr. scher CONF. RM. RADIATION LAB ' 
4:30 pm--IECTURE, "the family and the elderly," by dr. ruth weber, at HAGGAR HAll. .. 
6 pm--MARDI GRAS, featuring nd glee club and keenan night 
STEPEN CENTER . . ' 
6:30, 11 pm--pbs channel 34. STRAIGHT TALK host dave barrett interviews 4 nd-smc students on sexuality at ~otre dame. 
7 pm--l\.ffilinlNG, nd education; perspectives, UB. AUD. 
7:30pm--MEETING/DEBATE, "theflace of history in a liberal arts ed~arion" by marvin o'connel and dr. john lyon, UB LOUNGE I 
8 pm--THEATRE, munnenschanz swiss mime-mask, O'LAUGHIJN AUD., tix $3.50 and $2. 
8 pm--IECTURE, "the original them of the feast of christmas and its earliest development," by dr. gabriele winkler ARCHITECTURE AUD. . ' 
8 pm--SHOW, ice capades, A.C.C. 
9 pm--BASKETBAU., nd vs. manhattan 

Thursday, February 15, 1979-page 2 

Food sales provide varied selections, social atmosphere 
·The following artzde is the second in a three-part sen'es dealing with campus food sales. Toaay 's story Cle_als wtfh the selection and social atmosphere that many of the outlets offer. Tomorrow's final segment will deal with some of the problems which affect food sales, such as employee relations and shoplift­ing. 
by1ohn McGrath Senior StaffReporter. 
Food sales in campus dorms in some cases offer everything from bagels to Playboy magazines, but perhaps more imponandy, they provide a larger ponion of hall mcome as well as serving as local student hangouts. 
''This is what runs the hall basically ... but sometimes more than anything else it's a social center,'' observed ] im Rusconi, manager of Alumni Food Sales. 
In many dorms, food sales outlets are located near recrea­tion room offering pinball or pool, so sales often are directly related to attendance at these facilities. 
Depending on its size and hours, a food sales outlet also may attract a "crossover" busi-_ ness from residents of other halls, especially when its location is convenient for inter-hall pa­tronage. As one food sale employee put it, "When you've got the room, it helps." 
For example, due in part to the size of Planner Hall, its food sales outlet is a much larger operation than those in many dorms, therefore, encounters a greater "crossover" patronage. In addi­tion to the items offered in smaller dorms' outlets, Planner food sales offers "everything from enchiladas to cheesebur­ger,'' according to employee 

· Matt Brunyansky. In addition to the revenue gained by selling food, Planner also makes money from magazine purchases, offering Playboy and Penthouse along with the more conventional Rolling Stone and People. All dorms, whether large or small, have their own personality reflected in their food sales. In Keenan Hall the outlet is known as "Zaland" (short for "Pizza­land"). To order pizza, students 
f-.-The Observer_ 
Night Editor: S. Mummert Asst. Night Editor: Dave Brosh, Margaret Kruse Layout Staff: 1ohn Smith Editorial Layout: Tom Behney Features Layout: Chn's Stewart Spotts Layout: Anne Hess/au, Paul Mullaney Typists: LisaDtValerio, Tom Pzpp, Bill ''My Fingers are Soggy" Swift Early Morning Typist: Kim Convey Day Editor: ME Moran CoP.Y Readers: Mare. Ulicny, 
Mike Shields Ad Layout: Matt DeSalvo, BUB Photographer: Dave Rumbach 
The Observer !USPS 598 920] is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the . students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year IS10 per semester] from The Observer. P.O. box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, ln­
. diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved . 

FRIDAY &SATURDAY FEBRUARY 16th,17th 
_.~MUDDY 


WATERS 
$6.00 GENERAL ADMISSION 

*~ ....
r­

234·1431 •• 
129 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET ~ If ' I BlOCK SOUTH OF THE MORRIS CIVIC AI..IOtTORIUM _ _. ON RIVER BEND PLAZA DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
TICKET LOCATIONS 
VEGETABLE BUDDIES RIVER CITY RECORDS (US 31 N) ~IVER CITY RECORDS (BELLEVILLE PLAZA, WESTERN AVE) 
Presented by Vegetable Buddies & River City Records 
ENIOR CLAS~~ 
~

Pre-Hockey Game 
~ ~


Happy Hour 
NICKIFS Sat.Feb. 17 
4-6pm 

3 drafts/$1.00 soc 7&7"s 
r-----------..... --­
.. RIVER CITY RECORDS 
:;()')70 li.S. :ll North 277-1242 
:~ mile)ooi north of ('HillfHI)oo;, 
Ot)«'ll I 0 to 10 7 cla\·)oo; a \H't•k 
-I \ool. Bt·rul\• Lar·~t·!oit rt•em·tl and tap•~ "'t'lt•t·tion I 
• uupun ruu.::-1 IH· pr·e·...e•ute·t.l lo e·a.. hie·t· IH·I·uJT pun·l•a...e• i... 1'1111!!..
---------------------------------­


Ir---------------------,$1 00 OF1·} ' 
' I "''" ol ......

l.ionil I. -1 • r • • I \Jar. I I. 1· ;tn~ allunu ur·. lap4' "ill1 lha· • uupuu. 1 
\ut ~HtHI un c·UI·HIII .... irupur·1 .... ut ... 1.. ..-...alt· il, ., .. ·•
L----~----------------~ 
~······· ND/SMC checks
!accepted for upto $2().00 !over purchase am••unt 
I




1·········17'> 000 alb s 
I · & tapes in stock now! ••••••••Wiiy wait to choose from a small selection'! J{iver fJty Records probably has it in sto<·k Now!!! 
~0

It) = 
~
.4, ~ 

> 
00 00 

dial the numbers· which corres­pond to the letters "SMUT" on the telephone dial. 
The employees of Zaland wear T-shins emblazoned with the establishments logo. According to the outlet's workers, they are proud of the m;tny accomplish­ments they have achieved since breaking away from Stanford Food Sales several years ago. 
"One night a couple of years ago, we made 100 'za's' (shon for 
[continued on page 3} 

• 
The Observer Thursday, February 15., 1979-page 3 
Of parietal survey 
HPC awaits results 
by Maureen Heraty 

The Hall Presidents Council (HPC) is awaiting the results of the parietals survey which are due today. Carroll Hall Council members drew up the surveys and gave them to the HPC to distribute last week. 
Until the HPC members have tallied and analyzed the surveys returns, they will refrain from making any definite decisions on how to handle the parietals issue. The HPC expects that the survey will clarify the student's attitude toward the parietals issue. 
HPC Executive Co-ordinator Marty Paulson expressed hope that the council IS taking the "right approach. " He did, however, admit positive feelings toward the survey, saying,' 'The results of the survey will deter­mine whether we, HPC mem­bers, should take action, and if so, what that action will be." 
The halls are taking their cues from the HPC. Tim Coonan, Carroll Hall Council member, stated, "Ri~ht now, we don't know what kmd of action to take. We'll have to wait and see where the students direct their senti­ments." 
Farley Hall President Michelle Kelly affirmed that Farley will take no action regarding parietals until the HPC notifies her of the survey results. ''In order to fight the administration, we must be unified," she insisted, adding, "Before the halls do anything, they should try working with other halls and HPC. '' 
Hall presidents relate that they have received positive reactions from students to the surveys. The general consensus indicates that students appreciate the HPC' s and Carroll Halls attempt to discover their opinions. 
Most students "are upset" about parietals, Morrissey Hall President Ken Kadleck com­mented. "Most of them favor changes in the parietals system,'' he acknowledged, adding,_ "On specific points; however, such as weekend parietdlls, the . hall seems split down the middle." 
Students,. futh~rmore, have be­gun to realize that the issue is more concerned with student's rights than soley parietals. "We do not want to fight parietals for parietals' sake," Kelly asserted. 
Paulson also contended that the HPC also is emphasizing students' rights rather than just the parietals issue. "We are not 'youn~sters' as Fr. Hesburgh said,' he declared. "It's true that rules will always guide us as he says, but we should have a voice in the making of those rules," he added. 
[continued from page 2] pizzas) in two hours,"· recalled ) ohn Dillane, a Zaland employee. However, a preference for pizza is not campus-wide. In Breen­Phillips food sales, ''The big things are ... are bagels and pop­tarts,'' according to Manager Lee Ann McLaughlin. As a rule, most food sales cash a large amount of checks, espec­ially on weekends as a service to students. Most outlets . · re­quire payment upon purchase, but in Morrissey numerous food sales purchases are made on credit. ''This place really runs on credit,'' observed Mike Grace, an employee at Morrissey Food Sales. ''Wheneve.t; you cut down on credit, the sales go down," he added. Most outlets open on week­nights, generally around 10 to 
10:30 p.m. and stay open until 

Depending on the students' reactions indicated in the sur­veys, Student Government may meet with the HPC and Carroll Hall Council members to discuss the possibility of enlisting Stu­dent Government's support in subsequent student action to revise the parietal rules. 
• • . Food sales 
11:30 or midnight. Hours are basically the same on weekends when business slows down. For this reason, many of the smaller outlets do not open on weekends. However, food sales in Flanner, Morrissey and Grace have ex­tended weekend hours, usually from 6 J;>.m. until midnight. 
The nme following Mass or a ball meeting is often a predict­ably busy for a food sales outlet. However, some managers and employees have come up with other indications of an impending surge (or drop) in business." 
"We're usually busy on week­nights when we have a bad supper at the dining hall,'' observed Bryan Carlin, an em­ployee of Keenan's Zaland. 
Rusconi offered another theory: ''After break, sales are bad because a lot of people have gone home and weighed them­selves." 

Engineering & Computer Science Majors 
BEFORE YOU PICK UP YOUR DEGREE, PICK OUR INTERVIEW. 
Contact your placement office for interview dates. 
Ir------------------,I 
:HUGHES 1 
IL------------------JI 
CINUnge ,... WOtld with electronk:s 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M /F 



Applications for Student Union Director and Comptroller 
Are noW available in the S. U. offices Applications due Feb. 20 
Interviews will be Feb. 27 
•:. 
; . 

For information, call 7757 
..· 



Tonight 
Thurs. Feb. 15-7: 30prn Morris Civit.• Auditoriurn Tickets: $7.50/6.50 
good seats are still available at River City Records (50970 U.S. 31 North) and Morris Civic Box Office 
(:all 277-·l2•l2 fur furtllt'r infurmutiun 


HELP WANTED! 
River City Records has 2 or 3 positions available for Notre Dame/St.Mary's May graduates interested in the retail 
record business , potentially at the management level. Selected applicants will work part time this spring semester in preparation for full time employment after graduation. 
River City Records is South Bend's largest retail record company and needs mqre qualified staff personnel to match recent growth 
In a December consumer survey, WNDU-TV ranked River City Records first in a field of five area record retailers. 
River City Records is owned by a recent Notre Dame graduate and currently employs four ND/SMC graduates (full time) and five ND/SMC students (part time). 
Good oppurtunities for advancement are available for qualified staff. Responsibility in our related related Riv~r City Review and Concert Divisions 1 
is possible. \ If you are interested in a challenging job opportunity, please contact. Peter Kernan River City Records Inc. 2774242 (7:00pm to 9:00pm) 

. I 

.... 
.· .. 

The Observer Thu}sday, February 15, 1979-page 4 
Any Undergrad is Eligible to be the 1979-80 JUDICIAL COORDINATOR. Applications available in the Student Government Office 2nd floor Lafortune Deadline Feb. 23 For further details contact Jayne Rizzo (7961-6413) Kristin Quann (1343-6413) 
~----------------·
I I I off-campus presents! I

1tenn1s paRty 
I~RI.,f€BRuaRy 23R0 7-11pm 

I
I 
I I

I All You Can Drink 
I

I IRacquetball rOo I
I 
I ]acuzz1's & Saunas tl t1ck€ts $7.00 I 
I South Bend Racquet Club II ron tiX & mro. call ShaRI 234-19961 1 lanet 287-3804 I 
.. 

----------------~ 

' ' 

Cambodian troops hold border areas 
KAMINT, Cambodia (AP) -A teen-age soldier emerged tentatively from the forest and asked the unexpected visitors whether they were Thai com­munists. 
No, we told him, we were newsmen who had come to learn about the war inside Cambodia between the forces of ousted Premier Pol Pot and the Viet­namese. Satisfied, he led us to a temporary camp nearby where 300 to 400 soldiers -more than half of them women or young­sters-were resting. 
Pol Pot and his supporters fled to the countryside and began their guerrilla struggle after Vtet­na.rnese troops and Vietnamese­supported Cambodian rebels captured the capital of Phnom Penh ] an. 7 and installed a new government. 
There are many unknowns about the conflict in Cambodia, but what is certain is that at least large strips along the Thai­Carnbodian border are still in the hands of Pol Pot troops. They operate in bands of several hundred each, keep on the move and claim to be iriflicting losses on the Vietnamese through raids. 
Several Thai newsmen have been able to cross the once sealed-off Thai-Cambodian border to gather fleeting ~limpses of the Cambodian war m the forests. Four of us crossed ' the frontier this week. 
The grou.P we met about three miles instde Cambodia was lightly but well-armed. Almost everyone carried AK-47 assault rifles and some had rocket­propelled grenades. Ev.en children who appeared no older than 12 were armed. 
"Our duty is to move around,' one man who appeared to be a leader told us. "We are now going to Nimit village." 
Nimit has been the site of continued fighting between the Hanoi troops, their Cambodian allies and the Pol Pot holdouts. But he did not answer questions about the war and it was difficult to ~flY ,whether the entire group wa5 local militia or whether some, especially those wearing Mao-style caps, were in the regular Pol Pot army. 
The meal we were offered to share consisted of plain rice and water. It was not known whether the group had other foodstuffs and the meal was interrupted by the arrival of two trucks, some whispering between two of the apparent leaders and then with­drawal of the entire group. 
It was a motley caravan that disappeared down a forest trail ­two tractors pulling trailers loaded with soldiers, three regular trucks and a gasoline truck. 

. .. Embassy 
[continued from page 1] 
said he had received reports that 
after the embassy attack ''revolu­
tionary police were making ran­
dom searches of American homes 
in several Iranian cities and 
confiscating personal property. 
Iranian reporters in Tabriz, 330 
miles northwest of the capital, 
said several hundred people had 
been killed in the fighting there 
involving pro-shah troops, 
SAVAK secret service agents, 
Marxists and separatists de­
manding independence for the 

province of Azerbaijan, which 
mdudes Tabriz. 

--------------··------··--------·----·..··---..... -.... ··-------~-------··-~·----··-----..... ~--· -..-.. -____...,. . 









Editorials 
Thursday, February 15, 1979 -page 5 
~==~=======================*========
rAn open letter 
We're Not Kids 
This is one of those famous "open letters to common parlance, the word "kids," and "young­Father Hesburgh" that from time to time. Like my sters," are used to refer to persons who have not 
notorious predessors, I will probably become 
highly righteous, quite indignant, and take several 
totally uncalled for cheap-shots, especially 
considering the pettiness of the issue I intend to 
address. 
Allow me, ifl may, to speak directly to our much 
esteemed leader. 
Father. Recently, you a~peared on a nationally 
famous, syndicated televisiOn talk show. Unfor­
tunately, and at a great loss to my own personal 
edification, I was not able to view the program, 
primarily because my television doesn't pick Ul> 
anything beyond the nei~hbor' s CB. Ana 
furthermore, my time is so mmutely parceled out in 
pursuit of my education and all that is attendant 
thereon, that I could hardly spare such a 
substantial chunk all at once. But, m any event, I 
did get an opportunity to read The Observer article louthning the program. 
The article was well done, by the way, and you jseem to have tome across very nicely on the air, land to have represented our community in a !refreshingly positive light (althoug!t, as I say, I was unable to v1ew the program myself, and obtain my information via The Observer, only). However, Father, I must call to your attention the very unfortunate and disturbin~ on your part to describe the undergraduate contingency of our great institution, with patronizing references to our ~dative youthfuJnesss: and here I refer to such terms as "youngsters," or "the kids." Perhaps 
!because of your well reknowned involvement in so jrnany worthwhile and important activities, you jhave not had the time to keep ~breast of the !popular usage of these terms. Quite understand­~le. Possibly, then, in my own humble way, I can "~lp to render some clarity to the issue. In the yet reached mature adulthoOd. 
You can see now the root of the misunder­standing. Your accidental misusage of these terms apparently led several dim-witted individuals to the conclusion that you consider our student body immature and even adolescent! How absurd a thought, but then, you must admit that your remarks could be construed in this manner. Some of the freshmen were muttering that it had been several years since they were able to buy pajamas with booties and trap doors in the rear, and I know of at least one case where a person outside our community actually accepted your comments at face value! You can see where this son of thing might lead. · 
Frankly, Father, you don't see any ofus going on the Phil Donahue Show and calling you a "codger," or "the old gaffer." Such terms might imply a touch of senility or some other infirmity of old age, which could suggest you might not be fit to rule over your own affairs, make you own judgements, and act on your personal beliefs. Such a misconception, esrecially if entenained by persons in 'a position o authority, might even unpose unpleasant limitations on your personal growth, and become a source of continuing frustration, in addition to the abvious affront to your di~nity. My sincere hope, it goes without saying, IS that no one will ever unfair1y categorize you in this fashion, and that instead, people will continue to treat you as the emotionally mature, thinking adult that you are. 

P. 0. Box Q 
More urgent " 
. 


tssues 

Dear Editor: 
Thanks to a gift subscription from some friends I have been receiving The Observer out here in Colorado. 
I read with sadness all the' recent anicles about the so-called "abolition of parietals. ~ The paper has been full of dogmatic statements from various campus personalities. I have one basic observation that I would like to make. It is a sad commentary on a student body that has the time, ener~ and talent to spend on this 1ssue when there are count­less children in the St. Joseph County who need a Big Brother or a Big Sister, when more volunteers could be used at l.o$an Center or at N.I.S.H. Neighborhood Study Help always can take on more tutors. There are people in nursin~ homes who have no one to visit them and little kids in Day Care Centers who would love to see a new face and learn new games. There are people in prison who would be overjoyed by a visit and I'm sure that CILA can use more volun­teers. The Volunteer Services Office probably has many re­qu~ts for students to help out in different projects. Finally right on campus there are many stu­dents in the dorms who need 
someone to talk with, to listen to them, to be present to them. · 
I am saddened by a student body that seems to lose its perspective, its vision on life and the world. This happens all too often at Notre Dame. (I can remember thinking that ~etting 
fresh fruit and Mr. Pibb m the dining halls was a big issue.) Why waste time, talent and tnergy on ephemeral issues when there are many other urgent needs in the South Bend and Notre Dame communities that call each one to give himself · herself to others? 
] oseph Vito Corpora 

Shuttle complaints 
Dear Editor: 

Last Saturday night, we ar­rived at the Notre Dame Grotto at 
1:20 a.m., anticipating the shut­de to arrive at its scheduled time of 1:36. Approximately fifteen minutes later, the bus came from St. Mary's, droppin~ off its riders. Much to our dismay, the bus driver refused to let any of the dozen frozen students on the empty bus. We were all quite upse~, and so cold that we were shaking. 
Believing that the bus would return shortly after its usual stops at the circle and library' we anxiously awaited its return. The bus never arrived, and more than 
two dozen frostbitten students had to find other means of trans.Fnation back to St. Mary s, most ofthem braving the raw elements on foot. Upon arriving at St. Mary's, we dis­covered quite a few Notre Dame students who had also been waiting for the shuttle, and had evidently not been picked up either. We have since learned that the shuttle has failed to pick up students on numerous oc­casions in the two and a half weeks we have been back from break. 
It seems to us that the faithful­r~ess and dependability of this highly utilized service is some­what lacking. We cannot com­prehend why the driver would n.ot let us on the bus, and pulled away with so many students waiting in the freezing cold. Over and over again it has been stressed that students should-not walk alone between St. Mary's and Notre Dame, yet when one must wait for over an hour late at night for the shuttle, there are not many other alternatives. 
We have written this letter out of concern for all the students from the St. Mary's and Notre Dame community. We hope that the students will suppon us in this cause, as we would like to see a more efficient transporta­tion system developed. We are sure that with the supJ?On of the students, the bus servtce can be improved. We don't want this to happen to anyone again. 
Su Brennwald Mary jones 

Goodbye to Mr. Big 
WASHINGTON--Something 
happened in Washington last 
week that has caused great 
consternation in the power struc­
ture of this town. Paul de Lisle, 
the maitre d'hotel at the Sans 
Souci Restaaurant, resigned, 
leaving a vacuum in the luncheon 
scene that is hard to ftll. There 
are better restaurants than the 
Sans Souci in the capital, and one 
would be hard pressed in recent 
years to give it even one star. 
But the Sans had other things 
going for it--the most imponant 
being Paul. 
During the Cuban missile 
crisis, Paul was constantly on the 
phone to President Kennedy. "I 
heard an NKVD man,'' Paul told 
the President, "say that if you 
eyeballed it, the Russians would 
be the ftrst to blink.'' 
This is probably the first time it's appeared in print, but Paul came up with the idea for President Johnson's domestic program. Jack Valenti, who then worked for Johnson, was sitting at Table 12 with Bill Moyers. Paul stopped by the table and Jack said, "Paul, who are the people who eat here?" Paul replied, ''To my knowledge, they are all members of a great society." 
At that very moment Johnson called and said, •'Where are you, Jack?" 
"I'm eating with the great 
society," Jack replied. 
''That's it,'' President]ohnson 
said. "What would you think 
about calling my program 'The 
Great Society' ? ' 
"It sounds great to me," 
Valenti said. 
"Who asked you?" Johnson 
wanted to know. 
There was some talk at the 
time of Watergate that Paul was "Deep Throat." My suspicions were aroused early in the scandal when Paul did not recognize Bob Woodward or Carl Bernstein when they came into the restaurant. He told Bernstein he couldn't seat him unless he wore a tie and a jacket. Berstein said, 
as he left in a huff, "We'll talk 
about this in the garage tomor­
row morning." 
As for myself, It Is no secret 
that I ate at the Sans Souci for 
lunch every day at the same 
table. The reason for this was 
that Paul was my main source of 
news for the column. We had our 
own code. When he said, "The 
roast lamb is very good today,' ' 
that meant we were sending 50 
more fighter planes to Saudi 
Arabia. Or is he handed me the 
wine list and remarked that the 
Beaujolais Villages was drink­
able, it really meant that the Fed 
was going to raise interest rates 
by 2 percent. 
It was no accident that I found 
18 1/2 minutes of Nixon's 
missing tape in my spaghetti one 
day. Paul had cleverly denied 
putting it there. 
I've had a lot of calls since 
Paul's departure asking me 
where I tJlanned to eat lunch, now 
that he IS no longer at the Sans 
Souci. · 
Duke Zeiben has offered me a 
free baked potato with my steak. 
Paul Youn~ says I can have all 
the after-dinner mints I can eat, 
Art Buchwald 

and the Maison Blanche, a new restaurant in the Federal Home loan Bank Buildin_g on 17th and G streets, has offered me the same it:tterest rate on my house as the National Bank of Georgia gave Jimmy Carter on his farm. 
But I'm kee.Ping my options open. This ts a very class­conscious town, and as Pierre Salinger told me when I ftrst got here, "You are where you eat." 
[c]1979, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 
DOONESBURV 
by Garry Trudeau 


/JENNY, MY MAN, TAll<-I C4N7; 
IN'A!N'T(j()NNA 6ET ll.Y~. 
}11Jl JOB 84CX. LEr5 I'M Jll!iT 
either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD 
_The Observer_ 
of reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............ Tony Pace ~ews Editor ............ Diane Wilson as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray O'Bnen Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chns Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Lang henry Photo Editor ..... , ..•. ,Doug Chnstian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mills 
per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Co&~? Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Saint Mary's Ediw1 . . . . . . Pilen BuddJ Business Manager ........ john Tucker Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advenising Manager ........ Bob Rudy 
News Editor ............. Mike Lewis
reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. 
.----------------------------, 



Features 
Thursday, February 15, 1979 -page 6 
Hesburgh Interview _ 
1The Fact Is, I'tn Not Eterrtal By Any Means' 
~-------··---­
Chris Stewart and Tony Pace 
This interview was held on February 2, 1979. Tony Pace, Editor-in-Chief and Chris Stewart, Features Editor, conduct­ed the interview with Fr. Hesburgh. 
This is the ftrst installment Of that intervieW. The second, and ftnal segment, will be in tomorrow's 
Observer. Pace: You've been here for 27 years now and during that time you've seen an awful lot of changes. What changes do you look forward to in the next 5 or 10 years or so? Hesburgh: I think we are trying to. create the greatest Catholic l!niversity of all time. That's a pretty big mouthful and it's not an easy thing to do, because no one has managed. to d~. it since ~e beginning of the Uruversmes, back m the 13th century when they were. ~1 Catholic. They all died off as Catholic m the intermittent periods. Notre Dame was started back in the 1820's and t;ecreated as Catholic in 1825. And then in the last century there are a number of universities like Notre Dame founded, hiut they were mos.tly colleges as were Harvard, Yale, Princeton and all the re~t of them. Today I think we have it within oJJ.t grasp to become a great Catholic university because we:re building up the great end~wme~t ~hich is necessary for that. Were budding a fme faculty, a very good student bOdy and great facilities which are almost completed at this point. So, I'd say, as I look ahead, what I'm looking forward to ; in the next 10 years is internal _gro~ 
and quality as a great Catholic Uru­versity.Pace: There are people who arguelthat a Catholic University is a contra­
diction in terms. , Hesburgh: That was Bernard Shaw 1who said that. 1 Pace: I realize that, but I didn't want 
to mention him by name. What do you 1 think of that idea? · Hesburgh: I think he doesn't know ' what he's talking about. ~t' s . J?Y · reaction to it· because all the uruversltles 
initially wer~ Catholic. I think someone who says that says that you. can'.t be .a pniversity because . a ~versity ~ ~entially open and. bemg Ca~ohc ou're committed. I think every uruver­ity is committed to something1 some are~ommitted to humarusm, some are 
~ommitted to atheism, socialism, demo­p-acy, Marxism,! government or w~t, "orne people have muluple committments. 
I think as long as committments are free and open and you know where you stand and that you're open to everyone else and their ideas and you listen to them and cooperate with them and discuss with them in a civil, rational fashion then there is no reason why you can't have a Catholic University or a Socialist Univer­sity or a Co~w;Ust Universi_ty or !1 Protestant Uruversity or a ] eWish Uru­versity. 
Pace: The goals of a Catholic University are to educate students so they are inculcated with traditional Catholic values. 
Hesburgb: I'm not sure .. I guess I'd probaply use a different word than . mculcate but that's not a bad word. But I would think that what would happen at a Catholic University is that one would study everything that's worth studying in a atmosphere of faith,. an atmosphere of the belief of God and the Incarnation and and an atmosphere of committment to certain values that are important in life -certainly the dignity of the human person, freedom, and the freedom of the mind to arrange and seek truth, especially a freedom to seek truth and to ftnd it by many means, not just scientiftc tneans but also means of faith and means of intuition. Catholic values you mentioned, of course, I think it would be a sad thing if people graduated from here not having been at least exposed through the personality of the faculty 4Utd the sense of teaching here in absolute faith that they come out without any Catholic values. It would be 
1 
certainly a failure on our part. Pace: Along the lines of teachmg or educating students here to understand and believe in Catholic values educa­tion, obviously, at the University level occurs largely outside the classroom. Hesburgb: I wouldn't accept that. I 
think it happens both inside and outside the classroom. I wouldn't even know what proportion to put on it. I would hope more in· the classroom, making more formal expenditure of effort there.· 
Pace: Let me rephrase the question this way. You can describe classroom learning as something theoretical and you hope that what you learn in class you can so~eday apply to a· practical commuruty expenence. 
Hesburgh: I think that's a fair statement. I suspect that's a booby-trap for me, but go ahead. 
Pace: I'm not trying to trap you; I'm just trying to ask you is a question about how much responsibility you think should be given to students to structure their own life at the University. 
Hesburgb: I think a very wide latitude and I think that exists at present. I think that when I came here we had about 40 pages worth of rules, today we're down to about 7 or 8 basic university wide serious rules. When I came here dozens of kids were thrown out every year for breaking what I considered rather minor rules. It's a rare thing when someone leaves the University today and it has to be something serious. I think today we establish the character of this university by having certain standards, a minimum to be sure. and hopefully a performance far beyond those minimum standards. But we do have a few and we do intend to keep them because they give this university character different from other universities that don't care. 
Pace: As you get older you become, more mature, more respnsibleWhen you have a stay-hall system, such as here at ND, you are living with people three years your junior who do not have that maturity. Do you think it's fair to have the same set of rules for 18 and 21 year-olds?· 
Hesburgh: Well we think of every­body from freshman on. We used to have freshman halls which had more serious rules. I bet you would rather have the freedom you had as a freshman, which is the same as you have today, rather than have it as it was when you were restricted as a freshman and it took you two more years to grow up. 
Pace: OK, I'll agree with that statement. What I'm saying is the fact that SMC is also a Catholic institution and select SMC seniors are allowed to live in a dorm like Augusta Hall where they are pretty much allowed to set their own rules and re2Ulations. 
Hesburgb: I think that Notre Dame halls generally set their own reJtulations. 

I said there are two or three they don't set and the)' are University wide and we don't intend to have them changed. 
Stewart: With regards to the Catholic education, Ralph Nader spoke here last semester, and he estimated that an individual would forfeit 95 percent of his job opportunities if he asked the prospective employer to bring his conscience to work. · Hesburgb: I think that's pure Naderism 
andcompletely false.l've been in all sons of contact with all sons of industries. I don't know any jobs just off-handwhere you have to throw your conscience out the windowunless ym1 want to work for 
the Mafta. Stewart: He was talking more about corporate· irresponsibility. . 
Hesburgh: There ·are hornble cases from time to time when things go wrong, but I don't think you can paint a whole industry on that basis. I think there is a very serious _concern in most industries and corporations. 
Stewart: So you think there's a real genuine ethical concern in corporations? 
Hesburgh: A regular concern; one company inparticular,which is one of the largest in the world, rew u on an 


iiT.f the~"' don't know 
.l.j J 
who I am I guess the"' J
, 
l• • 
JIK
must be 'lV'lng On 1r1.ars. 
ethical statement. Many companies today have many ethical statements. Granted they grew out of some horribl~ exam_ples, like bribery and lack of standards. But I think that today industry is more conscious of ethics and standards than I ever seen it before. There was a day that I wasn't sure, but I think Ralph's living 10 years ago. 
Stewart: So actually you think there would be many opportunities for a Notre Dame student with a theological/ philosophical Catholic background to utilize those values in their jobs? 
Hesburgh: I think they would be desired more than those or someone who didn't have that. Everybody has stereotypes that ifyou're in business you throw your conscience out the window. It simply is just not true. For one reason you'll wind up in jail. · 
Pace: There was a research paper done last semester in an American Studies class and many people said Father Hesburgh should be much more involved in campus activities. 
Hesburgb: If they don't know who I am I guess that they must be living on Mars. Because, for one thing, in several weeks I have met over a thousand students in the course of a week and there are only 6800 on campus. I've been in over 10 residents halls so far this academic year. I've seen hundreds of kids at night, hundreds of students at night. I have students in and out of here all day long. You aren't the fust students in here today and I meet great globs of students teaching about 10 classes in the course of a year. I had one dass a few weeks ago with 3 50 students w it. All I'm saying is I'm more involved around here than most college presidents I know are in any way. 
Pace: Some people would describe you as a fund-raiser, some people would describe you as good-will ambassador. Could you defend what you see as your role at Notre Dame?. 
Hesburgh: It's a lot of things.Firstof all I'm the president which -means I'm the ftnal authority under the board of thrustees who are my bosses. In that capacity I have to coordinate the work of all the vice presidents. Each one of them has a very speciftc line of authority under the Provost, who is the number two man at the University. All of the Deans have top authority within theit colleges. Department heads, chairman heads have responsibilities in large 
, 
areas and there are about 60 directors all over this campus that are directing certain large part of the activities. I have to oversee all of that. I have to make sure it works. I have to meet occasionally with all of these people one way or another. I have to chair the Academic Council. I have to meet with the vice-presidents very periodically and go__ over all their problems an_d difficulties. We had such a meeting this week. I have to know what is going on in the inside and I do. And I'm the last party to resort on when there is a problem. 
The next thing I have to say is that I represent the University outside of the University. We have 60,000 alumni. That's the ftrst line I have to represent. Secondly,we are in the middle of a fund raising drive where I have probably been to 50 cities in the last couple of years or had half that many full weekends that have been stationed here trying to raise ' money for the university. On top of that I do things outside where the University gets in the public light because of things I do. For example, I'm chairman of the Rockefeller Foundation in NY. I have an office there. I'm chairman of the 
Overseas Development Council in 
Washington and I have an office there. I'm ambassador to UN Congress on Science and Technology Development; I have an office in the state department for
that. On top of that I'm on the council for 
Foreign Regulations and on 10 other boards and I'm. chairman on the &umenical Institute on ] erusalem and 
the Holocaust. 
So all of these activities are fairly wide spread and my time is spread very thin. But I manage to be here about 60 percent of the time. And when I'm here I work a double shift as you all know. I don't think there has ever been a faculty member or a student or an admini­strative person who had to see me about something and didn't get to see me, including you guys who got in on two day's notice. I'm supposed to be in New York right now, incidentally, but I'm here. · 
Pace: You mentioned the camprugn for ND. How is that set-up at the
r:J. 

moment. 
Hesburgb: Well, we're moving into the third phase, the ftrst phase was made up of 25 .full weekends at this university and prospective people. That was very successful. The second phase went to 125 luncheon and dinners in various cities. I think we had 12 in NY, about 12 in Chicago. And had them all over the country in large metropolitan centers where we drew together mostly business people at lunch, and couples at someone's home or at a club or wherever at night and made {>resentations on ~e campai~. We ftrushed that. I think Father Joyce did the fmal visitations in Texas and. I suppose ,in Californi~ j~tbefore Christmas. We re now movmg m next month into the third phase which means 125 separate meetings wi~ alumni in different cities. And that will be the fmal wrap-up stage. My guess is 
we are going to be successful if everybody stays on this steady till the end. Mr. Jim Burke, our vice president for develop­ment and his staff have done a superb job on this campaign. I've never seen one better planned or more on track. They are actually ahead of schedule at the moment despite the enormous number ' of people involved and the enormous amount of work involved. If we are successful, I have no reason to doubt we will be we will be about the 15th largest endowed University in this country. When I came back here to teach in 1945 I don't think we were hardly on the list. We had around o~e million dollars. By the end of this campaign we should have over 200 million dollars. 
That will enable us to compete for the very best faculty and enable us, I hope, to maintain the regular facilities. Enable us to create here the kind of atmosphere 

The Observer-Features Thursday, February 15, 1979-page 7 
-

Stewart: You mentioned the That would still leave us 500 under 
With costs going up 10% a year, I11R.ight now, I think Campaign for Notre Dame. Tied into 10,000. My guess is if we got larger in hope we can acquire a much lar~er 
your own personal vision, where do you the future, it would be in the graduate endowment to compensate for the m­see Notre Dame 10-15 years down the area. I think that 500 more women 
cr.eases.
anybody would say that road, in terms of the number ofstudents, should be about maximum in the 
the physical facilities, and changes in undergraduate area, especially with St. Stewart: In terms of the character of character of this instituiort? What do you Mary's College next door--they're close Notre Dame, what do you think are its forsee beyond your presidency? to 2,000. I think it will give us a good major stren~ and weaknesses? 
Notre Dame is the best Hesburgh: Well, first of all, not many mix of men and women, enough chance Hesburgli: I think the character at the more buildings, to take care of the visual to have a vital student body that is moment reflects a place uniquely con­aspect. I think we have a superb plant. natioQa} and international, and repre­cerned about values among institutions It's quite modem, and should last us sentative of the minorities in the of its kind. Everytime there's a nationalCatholic university in another 50-60 years, So that's not country. di:scussion on values, I get a phone call something we're lacking right now. More than that, we'd have some real asking 'What does Notre Dame think Stewart: What about housing? troubles. Every time we accept someone about this?' Everytime The New York
the world. And it's Hesburgh: First, let me say where I now, we tum down five or six. The ones Times runs a series, Notre Dame is think we should add a few things. I that cannot get in are often very superior always quoted as being representative of would like to see a faculty office students. the best of Catholic values in whatever buildin~, somewhere central to the I'd hate to see the J?lace restricted. I area that is being discussed. 
getting better" academtc activity ofthe campus. I would think this is such a uruque place, and so We add a dimension of faith, which is hope we could have a better theatre than many people want to come here to learn important. It makes us uniquely 
•that's needed for good teaching, good we have right now. and become qualified for living; I would qualified to comment on many naoonal research, and good service to the country To get into the housing question. I hope that the numbers would not be like and international problems, and to and to the church. I think that it will would ho~ we could become almost the great state ·universities . participate in helping to solve them in a place us in an absolutely unique totally restdential. Ifthe student feeling, As far as the cost, it can be expected way no other institution of leadership category for American Universities. which seems to be growing in the past that within five years to be over $100 can. 
This ts the end of a long endeavor. As year or two, of wanting to stay on million annually to run Notre Dame. The bottom line in all our lives is how I can remember when I ftrst began this campus, ifthat is sincere, the problem is We're hoping by that time to have a strongly we practice those values which job we had a miserable budget that if you build 1000 rooms and student much larger endowment to make up the we believe in. The faculty has a unique multiplied almost 15 times since then. sentiments change. They have on three gap between what you pay in tuition and position to teach values themselves, in Probably twenty times . separate occasions since J'ye been here; what the actual cost of your education is. their lives, their teaching and their 
if you're stuck with 100 unoccupied We have all kinds of horrible expenses whole demeanor. 
Second thing that we had practically no rooms, you can go broke very quickly. facing us. Some just drop out of the sky. It's obvious that young people areendowment at that time. Lastly, if you Stewart: Those are mostly seasonal People don't think about them. Exam­quick on the r.adar to tell if you're being want some fun some time think about 
what wasn't on fluctuations, wouldn't you say? ple: the handicapped. The bill is $11h. honest about something or not.
this campus 30 years Hesburgh: Well, it has been. There million to implement what we want to Lastly, the student body is a flowingago and how it would be at Notre Dame was a great movement on campus in the do. Take fuel costs. In the past five stream. No student who is here todaytoday without them. There was no sixties; the!). the universities around the years, they've jum_ped $21h. million, was here five years ago or will be hereMorris Inn, no Continuing Education, no country built a lot of do:rms with federal despite the fact we ve cut down fuel five years from now. That's a completepost office, no ACC, no library, no 

loans. Most of them ended up with consumption 20%. turnover. For all practical purposes,science building, no liberar arts empty rooms. Some of them still do every five years the stream is completely building, no advanced business today. We've never been in that
building, .no engineering research 17t's obvious that removed. 
position, I might add. So, what Notre Dame is at a givenbuilding, no Fisher Hall, no Pangborn 
We've always had a little over 1,000 moment is largely how successful we are
Hall, no Keenan, no Grace, no Flanner, no Stepan Center, no student center, etc. students off campus of their own young people are in instilling, inspirin~, or somehow 
volition, and everybody else on. We've exemplifying values m our presentetc. etc. So I think one would have to say always been able to take care of those student body, our faculty, and our 60,000 that it takes enormous amounts of money 
to create a great University. This who wanted to be on campus. I think quick on the radar, alumni out there. 
once in the nearly 40 years I've been That is an increasing body of peopleUniveritycosts around 300,000 dollars a 
around here I can remember-that we had that represent a living Notre Dame.
day to operate every school day of the to make some arrangement about who to tell ifyou~re when I became president, we had onlyyear We need a great endowment be­went off. 
20,000 alumni. Now we have over cause there is no way on earth we can The fact is, I've been concerned about 60,000, a tripling of that particular body pay for the things we have to pay for to this. Since I've been President here, being honest or not." in a short period of time. 
create a great university j"ust out of I've built or reconditioned over 2,500 The reality of this place is a presenttuitions. Tuitions, if we're ucky in the rooms. That's almost twice what we had Then, with inflation, my guess is that obligation: it isn't a given. You can't years to come, will pay for 60 of the previously. Now, we have nearly 5,800 within 10-15 years faculty salaries will be say what Notre Dame is today, or will University educational expenses. We're rooms. double what they are now. They'll have always be. I hope it will be better but it just fonunate that we have a great and Lookir:tg ahead, ifpeople really want to to be ifthe faculty are going to live. This may be worse if we don't have the kind providential place here. We've always be on campus, we've got to strain might seem like a fairly wild prediction of leadership and dedication that has had a great, dedicated faculty. We've somehow and make it possible for but in the years I've been here, I've seen brought Notre Dame where it is today.always had a great student body from all everyone to live on campus. faculty salaries quadruple from what People today tend to unify leadership over, not like most universities do. As far as numbers ~o, we did a big_ they were when I arrived. That's an in one person. That's a falsehood. We've always been unique and different study with the Camegte Commission of enormous jump in the budget because There are a lot of people around here 
and not afraid to be unique and The Future of Higher Education. It 60% of our bud~et is salaries. that give great leadership, and have different. But, having said all that, we turned out that a university of this kind Basically, I think we're home free on been for many years in thetr own special 
can be better and I intend that we should should not ~et larger than 10,000 
building, apart from the things men­areas; particularly the vice-presidents, , and we're getting better at the students. I thi.tlk we're under 9,000 now. tioned. I left off the mechanical research the deans, the department heads. These 
moment. That's being in the order of 
We have committed ourselves to 500 lab, which we hope to do in the spring, are people who manifest enormousbeing a great Catholic university. more women. They will be added rather and the space for the art gallery, which leadership.Pace : Along the lines of athletics than subtracting men, which is what we we are quadrupling at the present time. (At this point, Pace queried that after
receiving recognition •· A lot of Notre did in the past. 
tWenty-seven years at the helm of NotreDame critics would say Notre Dame is Dame, did he have any intention ofonly known for what they do on the stepping down in the near future.
gridiron and basketball coun. 
Hesburgh mentioned that he 'retired' every year, but the board of trusteesHes/nn"gh: They forget we're national refused to accept his resignation. Hechampions in fencing for two years. 
said that he only accepts one year Pace: But beyond that, there's an article 
appointments, hopmg to cue the trustees in Change magazine that ranks the top that he is on the 'downswing.' He ftfteen academic institutions and we're culminated this part of the interview with the comment: "The fact is, I'm not
not among them. Does it bother you that 
eternal by any means," to which INotre Dame's reputation is largely interjected that some people at NDathletic? 
might disagree with his assessment.)
Hesburgh: I don't think that it is largely Stewart: Lately, much of the educa­athletic. I think anybody in the world tional reading I have done casts awould say that this ts the. best Catholic shadbw over the value of a liberal artsuniversity in the world ng~~ now ~d education. Harvard, for the ftrst time in that's something. And tt s gettmg thiny years, recently revamped theirbetter. I think hardly a year goes by that entire liberal arts program.
it doesn't get, in my judgement, much Hesburgh: We don't have to do thatbetter because of the quality of the because we never got into the foolish­student at Notre Dame the quality of the ness they got into (during the sixties). 
teaching, the quality of the research,_and because of the many wonderful things going on here that one doesn't see m To be continued tomorrow. other places, values among studen~s, for example, service to the commuruty by students service nationally on the part 
of the f~culty. Change magazine ~so READ THIS
said that for two or three years runrung who are the best five educators in the 
Tonite, the ftrst of a two-part series 
U.S. Notre Dame is among them. 
dealing with sexuality at Notre DameEvery year they have that survey. It's will be shown on Channel 34's "Straight two ways of looking at it. I think we're Talk."
growing, we're gettmg better ~d I Host Dave Barrett interviews fourwould be the ftrst to say we still have a Notre Dame-St. Mary's students on theirlong way to go, a long_ way in many reaction to a recent controversial articleareas. But to say that this univc;rsi~ is published in the Observer. Ttmes aremainly developed around athletics, if I 6:30 p.m. and 11 p.m. Second install­believed that, I'd ask the board to caned ment is Friday at 6:30 p.m. and 11 p.m.
my contract tomorrow momin . 

The Observer Thursday, February 15, 1979 -page 8 
--· 
For OC shuttle service 


The Medieval Institute 
of the University of Notre Dame 
Reid ponders improvements 
-
• 
Interviewing on Campus February 22·23 
If unable to interview at this time, send resume to: Ruth Lodowski/Texas Instruments/ P. 0. Box 226015, M.S. 222/ Dallas, Texas 75266 . 
slot. . 
Reid ~reed that time changes may be m order, stressing that the present shuttle is just an initial move to provide service to off-campus areas. He added that changes and/ or expansion of the service would have to be gauged by student demand. 
"We trv to resJ>?nd to student suggestions," Re1d said. "If a senous proposal were brought to us, we would consider it very strongly." 
John Fitzpatrick, Off-Campus 
commissioner, mentioned the 
possibility of making day runs or 
mcluding other large off-campus 
housing areas in the route plan. 
However, he did not know how 
much student interest there 
would be in these changes. 
The current off-campus shuttle 
is part• of the existing Notre 
Dame-Saint Mary's shuttle 
system. "We haven't added an 
extra bus," Reid said, "we've 
just added runs to the apart· 
ments which replace previously 
scheduled ND-SMC stops. 
Under the present set-up, an 
expanded off-campus service 
would come only at the expense ·of inter-campus runs. However, Reid said that he would even consider a separate shuttle bus to make off-campus runs, "if enough students would suppon it with their ridership." Such an experiment was attempted in 1973, but response was minimal. 
Fitzpatrick called the present 
shuttle "a step in the right 
direction" for dealing with the 
off-camR.us transponation prob­
lem. 'The imponant thing is 
that it's running. I think its good 
to start small and take off from 
there," he added. He expects 
the service to continue through­
out the semester, with possible 
modification of routes and times. 
Any student with ideas, ques­
tions, or suggestions, can get in 
touch with Reid (7308) or Saint 
Mary's Director o£ Student Activ­
ities Mary Laverty (284-4319). 
SU record sale needs workers 
The Student Union-sponsored record sale, scheduled for Feb. 19-23, is in need of volunteer workers. The hours are from 12 noon to 5 p.m., and shifts are divided hourly. Anyone interest­ed in working should contact either Curt or Jim at 7757 or 8710. 
There will be a brief meeting Sun., Feb. 18, at 6:30p.m. in the LaFonune Ballroom to explain sale procedures to those students who have signed up to work. Those who cannot attend this meeting should contact Jim at 8710. 
• • . Aim 
[continuedfrom page 1] 
noting two cases in which this had happened. 
Kopec demands that police bring back proof of a gun's destruction. He said he has three boxes of gun pieces in his office. He hopes to have someone, perhaps from Notre Dame's Art Department, weld the pieces together into a monument to be placed in the patio beside the St. J oselp County Jail in South Bend. 

announces a 
LECTURE ol\ 
Ockham: Divine Ideas and God's Knowledge 
. • by Professor Marilyn McCord Adams University of California, Los Angeles Friday Memorial Library February 16 Medieval 1979 Institute 3:30P.M. Room715 
byTomHay Notre Dame Apartments,. the shuttle makes two runs nightly-­
The new off-campus shuttle at 6:30 p.m. and 12 midOight-­bus service, implemented in during the week, with one addi­January on a trial basis, has been tional .run after midnight on well-received by students thus Friday and Saturday nights. far, despite some problems with According to Shannon Neville, scheduling, according to John an off-campus student who Reid, director of Student Activ­helped implement the shuttle ities .. 
idea, the service is helpful but Reid added that schedule and 
"more runs are needed. routechanges are under consider­''Midnight is pretty late to ation, but that more student 
hang around campus ifyou don't feedback is needed to determine have anything to do," Neville problem areas and possible solu­added. She favors adding an 
earlier run or changing the
tions. Serving Campus View and 
midnight run to an earlier time 

. -IntervieWS 
campus 

for . Tl Equipment Group 
Match your degree to our multitude of openings. 
(U.S. Citizenship required) 

-----------85/MSIPhDDegrees----------­
Electrical Engineering Engineering Physics . Process and Plastics Mechanical Engineering E'ngineering Mechanics Engineering Industrial Engineering ' Optics (Engineering) Computer Science Materials Science Manufacturing Technology (Software/Hardware) 
-----------------------------Openings---------------------------­
Engineering/Computer Production Control Manufacturing Information Software/Hardware Functional Manufacturing Systems Microwave Development Engineering Microprocessor Design 
Field Test Support Project Manufacturing Minicomputer Applications .Logic Design Engineering Control Mechanical Design Optics Design-Thin Film Digital/Analog Circuit Design Automated Test Equipment · 
Coating Thermal Analysis Manufacturing · Environmental Design Mechanical Packaging Project-orie-nted Space ~elecommunications Tool Design Manufacturing involving: Infrared Reconnaissance Antenna Design • Coordinating Thin/Thick Film Design Laser Development Manufacturing Fab Liaison Engineering Radar Design Schedule Commitments Test Equipment Design Computer Software • Cost-Control/Budget NC Program111ing Assembly Methods Development Systems Analysis Computer-aided Design • Use of Real-Time Cryogenics-Heat Transfer Computer-aided Testing Computer Systems Manufacturing Supervision Aerodynamics Manufacturing Supervision Printed Wiring Board Control Systems Assembly Methods 
Engineering Applied Mechanics Fab Methods FAB Methods Quality and Reliability Tool Design _ Signal Processing Assurance NC Programming. 
Live in Dallas. The Southwest's largest and liveliest metropolitan area. 
Discover all the glitter and glamour, spectacular sport and high fashion Dallas is famous for­yet an economical place to make a home. Cost of living is way below the urban U.S. average. And there's no state income tax. The country's 7th largestcity has year-round sunshine plus lots of lakes and facilities to enjoy it. Dallas and surrounding area has 47 colleges, 50 hospitals, 2 major medical education and research institutions, and a wealth of major media and entertainment. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCORPORATED 
An equal opportunity employer M/F 
The Observer Thursday, February 15, 1979 -page 9 
WAC hosts 'wom.en's w-eekend' 
by Rosemary Mills The W.AC was formed five women's dorm and two represen­Editorial Editor years ago to provide Jones with tatives from off-campus. Jones mput from Notre Dame women. termed the alumni weekend as 
The success of last year's The council consists of two ''one of the most valuable things Women's Alumni Weekend has representatives from each the council has done." prompted plans for a second 
•..............•.~ .............
annual weekend, according to Mary Meg McCanhy, weekend • I 
• The Professional Touting Co. of !
coordinator and Women's .Advis­
...... 

Non-Academic Employment Opportunities A seminar for Graduate Students in the Humanities and Related Fields 
Session One: lecture-Tuesday, February 20, 1979 3:00-5:00 p.m. library lounge James J. Krollk, Director, Office of Non-Academic Counseling and Placement for Graduate Stu­
, dents, Univ. of Michigan. Session Two: workshop, Tuesday February 20, 1979 
ory Council (W.Aq co-chaiman. 
Scheduled for March 3-4, the weekend is sponsored by the WAC. .A seminar will take place Saturday from 1 to 3 p.m. in the Library .Auditorium, followed by an informal reception in the Library Lounge. .A brunch is planned for Sunday. 
McCarthy stated that basically the same question and answer format used last year would be applied to this year's seminar, although some new questions might be added. "We are inviting women who enjoyed life at Notre Dame and can tell us how their experiences here relate to their life now," McCanhy said.Only alumni of at least two years are being invited. 
The purpose of the seminar is to allow the alumni to discuss their options in the job market and in post-sraduate studies, as well as decisiOns they must make in their lives. SisterJohn Miriam Jones, assistant provost and founder of the W .AC, commented that the seminar was a ''great hit" and "well-received" by the alumni and students who at­tended last year. .According to Jones, this year will be different because "we'll have a fairly different audience and a whole different panel. ' ' 
As of this date, approximately 22 alumni have been invited. Ten women have accepted, ac­cordin_g to. M~y, and the comrruttee IS awattmg responses from the other twelve. "We're hoping about fifteen women will accept," McCarthy stated. 
She added that because of limited funds, most women in­vited are from this area. Student Government is aiding the W.AC ftnancially. 
Carter arrives in Mexico 
MEXICO 01Y (.AP) -Presi­dent Carter was greeted yester­day by 5,000 flag-wavin~ Mexicans and said his state vistt 1s at1 opportunity to resolve differences "in a spirit of peace, friendshiJ?, and mutual respect." 
First m Spanish, then in English, the president told Mexican President Jose Lopez Portillo, ''we have a great deal to accomplish. I cannot imagine a more appropriate day for our reunion. Happy St. Valentine's Day. Long live Mexico." 
Boy Scouts and other school children shook maracas and 
waved  red,  green  and  white  
pompoms  as  the President and  
Mrs.  Carter  stepped  trom  Air  

Force One and walked down a red carpet. 
The national anthems of the United States and Mexico were played and the two presidents reviewed a military honor guard. 
Lopez Portillo, whose bargaining position has been improved by the discovery of Mexico's vast oil and natural gas reserves, told Carter in Spanish: "We welcome you, sir, and hope your sojourn in Mexico will be a happy one. No other two countries have as much to talk about. 
The two presidents are expected to focus during Carter's 48-hour visit on energy, trade and immigration. 
[continued on page 10] 

: ••••••••••••••• :  GODSPELL ­Sunday, Feb.18, 8pm  
:  Century Center T~eotre  
:  · Info: 219-284-9711  
:  good fot .50 off with this ad  

7:30-8 :30 p.m. wilson commons Charlotte R.
: Rios, Graduate Student, Dept. of English, Unlv. of Notre Dame. Registration (Free): 309
• 
O'Shag, Dept. of English, Mrs. Maher.
• 
• 
Registration Deadline: Friday, February 16,
• 
• 
1979. Sponsors: Office of Advanced Studies; 
• 
Graduate Student Union (A representative of 
• 
the Placement Bureau will attend both
• 
sessions.)
• 
• ~---------------~ 
•
•
• •• fBULLA SHED i 
: 
I 5:1'5 mass and supper r':W I
: : I ili~&hl~ ~II I 
I ·and every friday-CC!I1)J!US •
.._ _____________,
! \ m1n1;,..ry I 
mARDI GRAS ' 79 
Only Three Hites Left 
Thursday-6:00pm~ 12midnighl Friday -6:00pm-2:00am Saturday-2:00pm-2:00am 
ENTERTAINMENT EVERY NIGHT 
thurs 7:00 Greg Hull -Guitar Solo 
8:00 ND Glee Club 
9:00 Keenan not ready 
for Mardi Gras Players Fri 7:00 Jamie Goodrich -Guitar Solo 

8:00 mark DQvis magic Show 
10:00 Smith and Compc.ny Sand 
Sat6:00 Smokey Joe 
9:00 The Waifs and Strays Irish Band drop on In 
.. 


The Observer Thursday, February 15, 1979 -page 10 
c 
ACROSS 29. Lid DOWN 
30. Bea~
R 
1. Artificial air 1. Crony
31. Swallowed up
5. Also 2. Spanish gold
33. Remedy
8." Pitfall 3. F!'(lwning
0 
34. Oodles
12. Curved Iines . 4. Alaskan
35. Product from1:1. Pay court to 5. Absent
s 
wood pulp
14. Hawaii dancP 6. Eggy drink
36. Bureaus
15. Give an angry 

s 
7. Worn anJ stare: 3 wds. 
39. Severe jar shabby, as a40. Become violent. 
18. Thin and 

w 
book: hyph. strong ly angry: 
wd.

3 wds. (slang)
19. Buoys up 
8. H<"at st>Vt'Tl''IY 

0 
44. Sea ~agle
20. Mild, as 9. Corrodi' 

45. Recline
22. Boys 46. -sure, cer-
N. Small lumpsR 23. Hodgepodge tainly: 2 wds. 
of butter 

24. Poor loser 47. Rip
D 
16. -goods. cloth 
28. Campaigned 48. Fold 
17. Senior for office 
49. As soon as 
s 
20. Use an auger 
21. 
Actor Arkin 

22. 
Delights in 


24. "Gentle.. line of persuasion: 2wds. 
25. ~bn"t 
~6. Rhine tributary 
27. Textile worker 
29. Fabric 
32. Heavy overcoat 
;)3. --the colors, bujl"le signal: 2 wds. 
35. Hawaiian food 3H. Mr. Huntley 
37. 
Employ 

38. 
Sicilian peak 

39. 
Rugged vehicle 


41. H£>1ms' organi­zation: abbr. 
42. 
American TV network: abbr. 

43. 
-whiz! 



Yesterday's 
Answers 





... 
,, 


IU, Purdue .· aide Iranian students~ I 
weather 10. Set>d wmg::. 

(AP)  -Iranian  students  who  aQd Europe because he knows  science,  called  reports  the  
have been thrown in a financial  that  the  country  needs  the·  Khomeini  no  longer will  allow  
bind  by  the  turmoil  in  their  edu~ation  and  talents  we  education for  women  or  social  
country are getting help from the  students can take home  to Iran  freedoms "rumors.  
Indiana schools they attend, uni- for reconstruction,"  an  Iranian  "Ruling  a  country by  Islam  
versity officials say.  graduate student at IU said.  doesn't mean you have to change  
Kenneth  A. Rogers,  Indiana  Fereshteh Zahedi of Tehran, a  back to the ways of 7,000 years  
University dean for international  Purdue -senior  in  computer  ago,'' he said.  

student services, said that for-=-========================= 
large schools such as IU and Purdue, the cutoff of money from home for students from troubled countries is not a new problem, and accommodations are being rnade. 
Payment deferrals through a university credit system have been granted to the 36 Iranian students at ill-Bloomington who were unable to afford this semester's tuition and campus room and board bills, he said. 
Rogers said there are 149 Iranian students at IU, and 140 students at Purdue. Thirty Iranians attend Ball State University at Muncie. 
''They are models of good behavior, very serious about their studies," Rogers said of the students. 
He said a March 5 meeting for IU administrators has been scheduled to decide how long the deferred tuition and board pay­ments will be extended. 
The students, who are among the best supported of all foreign students in Indiana with at least $15,000 a year in Iranian scholar­ships, say they believe the new government under Ayatollah Ruholla Khomeini will continue to underwrite their education. 
'' Khomeini will continue support tor students in the U.S. 
[continued from page 9] 
Carter said during the 
welcoming ceremony outside the 
presidential hangar of the Benito 
] uarez International Airport that 
although he had visited Mexico 
three times -first as a young ­
naval officer and then as. 
governor of Georgia -'Tve never 
had a welcome like this." 
However, the welcome was 
considerably cooler than those 
given to Presidents ] ohn 
Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson 
when they visited Mexico. The 
tone of the reception was, 
perhaps, a reflection of recent 
comments in Mexican news­
papers, which have criticized the 
U.S.-Mexican relationship and 
suggested in cartoons that C:.rt:er 
might try to trade peanuts for oil. 
. After the formal welcome, 
Lopez Portillo and Carter drove to 
the National Palace, where they 
talked before a state luncheon in 
Carter's honor. 
A White House official said ~Carter considered delaying the 
trip yesterday as a result of the 
armed assault on the U.S. 
embassy in Iran, but that post-
Michael Molinelli 
• • • Carter 
ponement of the visit would 
have been "terribly difficult and 
complicated.'' 
Caner's visit here is the 13th 
by a U.S. president. His seven 
predecessors each visited 
Mexico_ · 
Th; _president arrived on what one atde called "a delicate mission in which he will need to walk a careful line to deal with two conflicting attitudes on the pan of the Mexican.'' 
These, he said, were a desire to work with the United States as a partner while remaining independent and not being thought of as a · ·junior partner. ' ' 
._Lopez Portillo was the first state visitor Caner entertained after his inauguration two years ago, but Mexican officials are known to feel the United States has not treated their nation as an equal. 
With the discovery of vast oil and gas reserves, Mexican politicians are ready to extend their newly acquired economic muscle into discussion of such other issues as illegal immigration and trade. 
• • .. Dubs 
[continued from page 1] 
The government has been playing down the intensity of the 
-fighting, which Afghan exiles in Pakistan say involves hun­dreds of soldiers and villagers and air force strafing and napalm attacks. 
Kabul Radio said government officials did their best to free Dubs but the abductors refused and an attack was ordered. But in Washington a State Depart· ment sp_okesman sharply criti­cized the Afghans, saying they had ignored a u.s_ appeal that they negotiate with the kidnap­pers: 
Dub's kidnap-killing coin­cided with an attack on the U.S. Embassy in Tehran, the capital of neighboring Iran. Although the Iranian revolution is led by that country's Shiite Moslen patri­arch, there was no apparent con­nection between the two attacks. 




ARmANDO'S 
BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 1437 N .Ironwood Dr. South Bend 277-0615 Sue, Ruthie, Armando-stylist 
mon-fri 8-5:30 sat 8-2 by appt. only sat-no ap_pt. needed 
. ·­.--: 

------~-~---------------------­
-' 

The Observer-Sports Thursday, February 15, 1979 -.page 11 
Tae Kwon lli 
Club a-wards belts 
Tacoma, WA, is a first degree
by Gregory Solman 

black belt. There are degrees of
Assistant Sports Editor 
progress involved in earning any belt above yellow.
Mark Griffies, president of the 
The Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do
Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club, 
Club is affiliated with the United 
has announced that the following 
States Tae Kwon Do/Chung Do
members earned higher belts in 
Kwon Association, through
testing held February 9, in 
Master Raymond Sell, a fourth
Elkhan: 
degree black belt who instructs Those who obtained a ranking · karate in various studios through­of sixth gup, green belt were Paul out the area. 
[continued from page 12] 
With number two ranked Minnesota comins to South Bend this week, the Insh will have a chance to move into second place with a sweep. Does the new scoring sensation feel any extra pressure to get the puck into the net? 
"I don't feel any added r.ress­ure," confides Rothstein. 'Hoc­key is a kind of funny game because of the breaks. At the 
• • • Rothstein 
beginnino-of the season we played'fh-~2 and surprised some teams. Thev we went into a slump and now we're playing well again. Sometimes you have good shots but the puck does funny things. You just have to keep going out there and play hard. 
The Green Machine will play a big role in Notre Dame's late-season success. They exhibit a blend of the right insredients that Smith will be counnng on. 
"Ours is a peculiar line be­cause there are three dUferent types of players," eXf.lains the high school standout. 'Poulin is a great playmaker. Perry is very strong and a good forechecker. And I kind of float around. 
Irish fans just hope that Rothstein just keeps floating in the right spots and their team floats to a WCHA championship. 

Call Bill 1247 
Lost: a black down ski jacket with green and blue stripes on the shoulders at the South Dining Hall on Sunday Feb. 11. Keys and prescription sunglasses In the pocket. Reward offered. Call 6322 
Lost: to the person who "found" my book and notebook In room 202 Business Bldg., please return. Call Pat 1474 
Lost: one crutch outside of the Library about a week and a half ago. If you've seen this crutch alive, call Mike at 1678. 
Need ride to Milwaukee Thurs. 15 or Fri. 16. Call Pat-8479 
Interested In Summer camp jobs? Coun· selors -Instructors wanted for prestige 
private boys and girls  camps  near  
Kalamazoo. Lawrence  Seeger  1765  
Maple, Northfield,  
Ill. 60093  

Need ride to U. of Mich. on March 2 and ride back after the game on the 4th. If you can help-call Mike 3889 
Help! Urgently need 2GA Lasalle tickets. Call 6725 
Wanted: 2 GA LaSalle tickets. Call Marlbeth 3845 
Need 2 GA tlx for LaSalle B·Ball game.Call Tim at 6440 
Urgently require 2 GA LaSalle tix! Call John "JK" Julien at 1771 
Urgently need 2GA and 2student tickets to LaSalle B-Ball game Call Kerry at 
Vote for the ugliest face on campus. Wildman for UMOC-it starts Wildy. 
To my T.B., Happy 22nd! Much love. M. 
Great moments In Augusta Literary Dorm life! Episode e: Shakespeare comments on Augusta: "S&lall I compare thee to LeMans Hall, Thou art more self-gover· 
ulet..." 

love the flowers and the sentiment! 
Cell 

ATTENTION: Anne Bialek Fanclub 
Anne Bialek wishes It to be known that her phone number Is 4686. She Is tired of not receiving any calls from guys, so give her a ring and say "hi." 
JUNIORS: Don't forget to make your President's Dinner seating reservations. from 12.1 and 3-5 on Thursday, 1st floor of LaFortune. Bring LaSalle W:kets. 

• 
.. 


---~ 
SRorts 
Rothstein sparks comeback as ·Irish depend on freshnien trio 
by Ray O'Brien 
Bulldog squad, but Bill has Sports Editor several fnends from Grand Rapids that skate there. 
At the beginning of the year "I was heavily recruited by the Irish hockey team was a Minnesota-Duluth and I know hopeful question mark. Lef<'f almost everyone onf their team,' ' Smith knew his freshmen were said Rothstein. ' Even in our good, but figured they needed first series against them I had time. He was wrong. mixed feelings on the bench.'' 
Notre Dame got off to one of its The Minnesota-Duluth game best starts ever in the WCHA, had extra bearing because ·the and a good deal of its early Bulldogs went into the series 
success was attributed to the ranked number one in the coun­outstanding play of the Irish try. The biggest question be­freshmen. In fact, Smith put came, with Bill skating against together three freshmen on one older· brother John from their line and the trio produced as if resl?ective left and right wing they had been teaming up for pos1tions, who · were the years. -Rothstein parents going to root 
As the season progressed, the Bill Rothstein for? Irish icers stopped getting a lot of ''They are diehard UMD fans the breaks. A slump prevailed in Notre Dame's split against because my older brother has and a desperate Smith began Colorado College. But it was played there for four years. So shuffling the deck. However, two Rothstein's hat trick in Satur­they root for UMD overall but weekends ago, the Irish coach.es day's 5-4 win that _got the when Bill's out on the ice they decided to go back to the com-pucksters back on their feet. For root for him.'' binations that brought early sue-his efforts; Rothstein·was nomm­The Rothsteins ended up with a cess. And, once again, it was the ated for WCHA Player of the split while Notre Dame swept the freshmen that provided the spark Week. series 7-3 and 7-6. Bill Rothstein that got them m high gear. One However, the Grand Rapids, didn't need to save any of the freshman, Bill Rothstein, stood Minnesota, native would probab­previous week's goals as he out amon~ the crowd. ly have preferred to save some of scored an assist in the Friday 
Rothstem, Jeff Perry and Dave those goals for the next weekend, victory and followed it with a two Poulin call themselves the when the Irish traveled to the goal-one assist performance the ''Green Machine.'' They refer to University of Minnesota-Duluth. next ni~ht. It was the younger not to their lack of experience, Why the extra emphasis on Rothstem that was nominated for but to the kelly green practice playing UMD? the WCHA Player. of the Week jerseys they don. With their first "Well it was like a homecom-for the second series in a row. WCHA season coming to an end, ing for me,'' explains Rothstein. In the meantime, Smith's team they are certainly no longer green "I live less than 100 miles away upped its national ranking from and have gained much respect. and my brother plays for UMD. '' 12th to seventh. and jumped from 
It was this line that saved the. Rothstein's ties run deep with fifth to a tie for third in the remaining hair on Lefty Smith's UMD. His brother not only WCHA race. head as they scored seven points serves as co-captain of the [continued on page 11] 
Eye St. Joseph's 

Belles edge St. Francis, 52-48 
recently beat top-ranked Notre the support they have received.
· by Pam Degnan 

Dame, and DAllessio's team will AcG,ording to Dallessio, "it is a
Sports Wnter 

have to rely on precision shooting big advantage to have fans at A strong second-half scoring· and a top-notch defense. home games. I hope the student drive and key defensive plays Although attendance at home body will come out and supportdetermined victory as the St. 
gan1es has been almost non-exis­the team when we meet St. Joe's. 
Mary's Belles edged past St. 

tant, DAllessio and the team wish We need their extra push to getFrancis College in Fort Wayne to express their appreciation for us into the tournament.'' 
Tuesday night, 52-48. 
At the end of the half, the Belles were down by three points. But team captain Martha 

Kelly, despite a twisted ankle, Pumas stifle Irish women 
ignited second half action with 

her out5ide field goals and quick by Bill Gnffin Politiski and a sticky defense kept rebounding off the boards. Kelly Sports Writer the Irish close. and teammate, Maureen O'Brien In perhaps its most brutal Politiski, who had 13 points, 
scored 18 and 12 points respec-contest of the year, the Notre and Trish McManus, who scored 
tively. . Dame women's varsity basketball 12, fmally pulled the team into a Victory seemed uncertain as team fell to St. Joseph's Pumas, 59-59 deadlock. Then Molly both teams battled back and forth 67-62, . Tuesday night in Cashman, the team's high scorer 
for the lead. As the clock ticked Rensselaer, Ind. with 17 points, fouled out, and St. off the fmal three minutes, the The Irish played well in spurts, Joe's went on to a 67-62 victory. Belles, with the three-point defic­but often seemed to lack intens­Coach Sharon Petro and Bo it, took advantage of St. Francis ity. Consecutive baskets by Carol Scott were somewhat-disappoint­turnovers to take the lead. Lally opened the game, followed ed by Notre Dame's lack of Emerging as victors, the Belles by two scores from Jane Politiski. intensity, but they both agreed 
boosted their season record to But the Irish soon fell behind, that playing top notch competi­5-6. 18-13. At this point, the Irish tion like St. Joe's should pay First-year Coach, Jerry took off on a 14-4 surge for their dividends come play-off time. 
Dallessio commented on his biggest lead of the game, 27-22. team's chances in the upcoming Leading the streak were Molly district Tournarilent. "We're Cashman with eight points and Wednesday's hoops
really looking forward to this Maggie Lally with three assists. tournament," he enthused. A late first-half comeback pro­Mike Gminski scored 21 points "Notre Dame and St. Joe's are pelled St. Joe's to a 34-32 to lead fifth-ranked Duke to a two tough teams that we'll face, half-time lead. The Irish had 66-48 victory over ACC rival but our offense is looking better. out-rebounded St. Joe's, 24-15, North Carolina State Wednesday I think the team will make a good and out-shot them 44 to 38 in Durham, N.C. ... Elsewhere in showing." percent, but they also committed the NCAA, two -free throws by 
Dallessio hopes that in the first 13 turnovers to six for the Pumas. Mike Kanieski with eight seconds round of the tournament the The second half turned into a left gave Dayton a 69-68 win over Belles will be pitted against physical frenzy of elbows and Toledo... Larry Knight had 28 Purdue so as to avenge a pre-hard knocks, and several ques­points and 19 rebounds as Loyola 
. vious four-point loss. tionable calls resulted in two beat Western Michigan, 93-80 ... 
The Belles will host St. Joe's technical foul calls on the Irish. Host Ball State fell to Mark College on Saturday, Feb. 17, at St. Joe's threatened to break the Aquirre ru1d DePaul, 85-76. . . 1~oo p.m. This game promises to game open several times, but Kansas State beat Oklahoma be highly explosive, for St. Joe's strong rebounding by Jane State, 59-50. 
... ­

Thursday, February 15, 1979-page 12 
Purdue pins Irish grapplers 
all record to 23-7, now has 98 

by Bill Marquard 
takedowns for the season, 17 

Sports Wnter 
better than the team record 81 Injuries and weight prob-' he had last year. 
lems, which kept three regulars Freshman John_ Iglar had out of the starting lineup, Notre Dame's only other win, combined to spell defeat for besting • the Boilermakers' . the Irish srappling team last Alex Mackenzie, 6-3, at 177. night as 1t dropped its last Vic Zanetti, ftlling in at the home meet of the season 26-11 injury-plagued 142 slot, drew to a talented Purdue squad. 3-3 with Ed Cramer of Purdue. 
Notre Dame, with five fresh­''We had a lot ofpeople in the men and two sophomores in its lineup tonight who haven't 
·decimated starting lineup, wrestled regularly this season, mana~ed only two wins and a and I think they did fairly well draw m dropping its dual meet under the circumstances," record to 8-11. noted Irish mat mentor Ray 
The Irish were paced by Sepeta. "I just wish we could year-long standout Dave overcome our injury problems DiSabato, ~ho won by default and go into . a match or in the second period of his tournament with ur establish­match after jumping out to an ed lineup. early 11-3 lead over Purdue's ''That would be a real Cary Hammel. The 134-pound indication of the progress DiSabato1 who upped his over-we've made this season." 
Tracksters trip to Normal 
by Mark Perry VanderKraats in the three-mile. Assistant Sports Ed-itor A1so we are lookin~ for Perry Stowe to improve m the pole
The Notre Dame track team will vault.
be on the road again this week­''In the relay events, theend, as it travels to Normal, Ill., 
distance medley and two-mileto compete in the Central Colleg­relay teams are strong,'' Piane iate Conference meet Friday and continued. "We have some goodSaturday. 

runners in those events, and they The Central Colle_giate Confer­have an opportunity to qualify for. ence is composed of schools from the NCAA indoor championships• the Big Te-n, Mid-American, and with solid efforts. 

Missouri Valley Conferences, along with top independents from "We are also hopeful that the the midwest and mideast area. mile relay team can place," he 
Of the 25 schools in this added. conference, about 20 are expect­Mter this meet, the Irish will ed to compete, according to Irish be running against Indiana State 
coach Joe Piane. and Bradley m their first home "We are looking for some meet in over three weeks, Febru­
strong performances in several ary 20, at the ACC track. Then areas," Piane said. "Arnie they travel to the University of Gough should do well in the high Illinois in Champaign to compete 
• hurdles, along with Steve Welch in the Illini Classic on February in the two-mile and Dennis 23 and 24. 

..., .~ ~ . __ ,'Z'_._ . . -. ~ 





