t 
\._ 
... 

• • • HPC tnakes plans~ page~3 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and sain_! mary's 
Security, ACC officials 
investigate allegations 
by Tom Hay Senior StaffReporter 
. The_No~re Dame se~urity office an~ the ACC management are 
mvesttgattng allegatiOns that Umversity personnel acted 
violently and abusively toward t-shirt vendors at last Thursday's 
REO Speedwagon concert. 
In a letter to the editor published in yesterday's Observer, 
Alan Howard, professor of mathematics, accused the ACC 
officials of u_sing ''storm trooper tactics'' in expelling certain 
vendors outstde the ACt after the concert. Howard saia that he 
had witnessed three adult subjects subjecting the vendors to 
"both verbal and physical abuse" in what he considered a 
"vicious" manner, considering the nature of the offense. ­
In an interview yesterday, Howard again said that he didn't 
fet;l the <-:onduct of the ACC officials was justified. ''They were 
bemg qmte rough and nasty," he said, "and from what I saw, 
the vendors were not putting up any resistance." 
In ·an interview yesterdax, Howard again said that he didn't feel 
the conduct of the ACC officials was JUStified. 'They were being 
quite rough and nasty,' he said, 'and from what I saw, the 
vendors were not putting up any resistence.'. 
Howard described the officials as in their 40's or SO's while the 
vendors were in their early 20's. 
One of the adults involved was identified by Howard as 
Joseph Sassano, assistant director of the ACC. Mr.Sassano 
refused to make any comment concerning the issue. 
John Plouff, managing director of th~ AC.C, said the vendo~s did not have thepermissionof the Umverstty to sell goods m connection with die concert. He pointed out that certain groups have legitimated contracts with the ACC to sell at concerts, but that the persons in question were .acting independently. 
'Only the people who work for the ACC are allowed to sell,'' said Plouff. ''These were bootleg salespeople outside, and we have ND security to get rid of them." 
It was unclear as of yesterday whether ND security officers were involved in the alleged conflict. 
• Plouff said he could not comment on those alleged ''storm trooper tactics'r of those involved because he did not have all the facts at hand. ''Im not certain myself what happened, but I am conducting investigation into these matters,' he said. 
"We certainly don't condone violence in these matters, but we also don't condone selling in competition with legitimate contrctual agreements,'' Plouff said. 
Joseph Wall, ND director of security, echoed Plouff's assertion that the vendors were unauthorized to sell, and were therefore asked to leave the grounds. According to Wall, it was only because they refused this request that they were ''escorted away." 
We did receive some complaints from vendors about alleged violence," said Wall, "but righ-now it is only an allegation." Both Wall and Plouff expressed concern about getting information from all the parttes involved. 
Wall said he hope to have all the facts straight by Friday. He indicated that the evidence would then be turned over to the Administration for further consideration. 


The Notre Dame ACC was the site ofalleged brutality bgainst ve~dors last week. 
Florida beachfront absorbs David 
COCOA BEACH Fla. (AP) ­Hurricane Davi~ spared pop­ulous southeast Florida yes­terday, but then surged inland to carve a path of destruction through beachfront condom­iniums and trailers south of the nation's space-launch complex. Furious winds blew refrigera­tors and television sets out of wrecked apartments like toys and tossed ruined trailers a quarter of a mile along wind­swept beaches, police said. 
Forecasters said the storm would likely return to the sea before the end of the day and track toward Georgia and the Carolinas; possibly reaching those coasts by tomght. 
Though five deaths were indirectly attributed to storm conditions, evacuation along Florida's beachfronts appeared to have averted higher loss of life. 
Wind scoured beaches from Cape Canaveral-• where mis­siles already on launch pads were lashed down -south as David swung inland at midday shortly after passing the man­sion enclave of Palm Beach. 
Until· then, the giant lstorm had remained weakened since stunning the Caribbean Islands of Puerto lRico, Dominica and the Dominican Republic with at least 640 deaths. 
Then near noon its eye 
Best photos ever 


Pioneer data pleases space scientists 
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. (AP) -Pioneer 11, i after blazing a trail other spa,deships will follow, left excited ~bentists poring over their five best-ever pict­ures of the giant moon Titan yesterday. '"I feel really very good about the fact we have the data (and pictures} at all: and even better that it looks like the data are going ·to be useful in probing the atmosphere of Titan,'' a unique and fascinat­ing world in its own right, said Martin Tomasko of the Univer­sity of Arizona. 
Pioneer flew past Saturn on· Saturday, then swung within about 220,000 miles of the mother planet. 
Because Titan is the only moon in the solar sysrem known to have an atmosphere, some scientists have speculated it might harbor some form of life. 
Recent Earth based measure­ments , however, suggest its surface temperatures may be nearly 300 degrees below zero. That would considerably dim the prospect of life there.. 
Pioneer's pictures and meas­urements, still being analyzed, should provide new clues of Titan, its cloudy atmosphere and temperature. 
One of the ftrst pictures,. displayed on television screens at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Ames Research Center, showed a fuzzy, reddish-yellow ball. Tomasko stressed the image represented very raw data that 
had not gone through the long 
processing operation to refine 
tts colour and remove problems 
with the radio transmissions, 
which traveled nearly 1 billion 
miles from Titan to Earth. 
"There's a hint of something in the picture's, but it's too early to tell whether it's real features (on the moon) or data dro,t:>outs,'' he said. 
Ptoneer. meanwhile. hurtled 
from Saturn at more than 
23,000 mph yesterday. 
It found weak radiation zones around the planet, in contrast with the dan_gerously harsh environment ofJupiter. Pion­neer sustained some radiation damage when it sailed past Jupiter in 1974. 
But at Saturn, said James Van Allen of the !University of Iowa, "there is no radiation hazard whatever for ·'spacecraft and their' electronic apparat­tus." 
Chief Pioneer scientist John Wolfe, assessing the misston's preliminary result, said,: ·"Things are going very, very -well. .. better than anyone could have expected." 
"In terms of Pioneer's scout­ing or pathfinding mission, it has more than fulfilled its duties,'' he said. 
Trailing behing Pioneer are two even more sophisticated spaceships· Voyagers 1 and 2. Both made spectacular flights past Jupiter earlier this year and are due at Saturn during the next two years. 
curved ashore. "It's the first time the eye has been ~oing directly over land areas '·· fu Florida, said forecaster Paul Hebert at the National Hur­ricane Center. "It's just been inching off to the west but it 
f.looks as if it wori't go far inland.'' 
Power outages were wide­spread and Martin County resi­dents were told to expect no electricity until today. 
At 6 p.m. EDT, a hurricane warning was extended north of daytona Beach to Fernandina Beach, at. the .Georgia border, and ~remamed m effect to Boca 
, Raton and the Northwestern Bahamas. A hurricane watch was in effect alonghe coasts of Georgia and South Carolina. The storm's center at 10 p.m. was at latitude 28.1 north and longitude 80. S west, or nearly over Melb_ourne. It was moving north at 8 to 10 mph with peak winds of 90 mph. It was expected to continue that course for several hours, which would take it back over water and allow it to maintain or increase its strength. · The National Hurricane Cen­ter was also keeping a close watch on Hurricane Frederic, which could follow in David's path. Hurricane Frederic at 9 p.m. EDT was located near latitude 
18.3 north, longitude 64.0 west, about SO miles east of the island of St. \Martin and 130 miles 
·east of San Juan, Puerto Rico. It was expected to pass about 30 miles north ofSt. Thomas about midnight and S0-60 miles north of San Juan about daybreak. 
(continued on page 2] 

. j 

The Ob&crv(...,. Tuesday, September 4, 1979 -pa,ge 6 
--~­
Molarity by Michael Molinelli 
--~:,!1~­
--n '· 
~, 

NSTA CAliA 


lhJIVERsiTy OF N~E: ~E 
JJ()ft{f I:W1£ .INDIANA 
US!t 

Possible lot expansion may solve parking woes
AM640 
NO I ~I !>AMI 'S P~O<.kLSSIVf SOUND 
by Robert G. Powers 

Despite the problems of limned parking to students, faculty, and staff at Notre Dame, solutions may well be 
WSND RADIO 
ANNOUNCES 

forthcoming. According to Joe Wall, director ofsecurity, funds
Auditions and 
are now available for expan­sion. At present, however, the
Applications 
direction in which the expan­sion will occur remains uncer­
for 

tain. 
Wall explaineq that parking problems are not uncommon for 
AM-FM OJ'S 

a major university. ''Most universities tear down 
News and Sports Broadcasting 
old buildings to create addition­al space," he said. "Others, 
Studio production and 
programming Engineering and 
such as the University of Illinois, have parking on res­
Sales 

idential streets or in metered parking lots. Notre Dame, in
Apply Sept. 4 or 5 from 6:30-lOpml 
fact, should consider itself for­tunate when compared to other
room 361 O'Shag 

universities.'· ' Wall pointed 
----------------------~ 
!)ani7Tilttdf/7Te.renU 
"THE GRAND DECATHLON" 
October 4. NOTRE DAME -A.C. C. 8:00PM $9.00 8.00 Reserved 
TICKETS ON SALE WED. SEPT. 5 
Available at The A.C.C. Box Office. Robertson's in South Bend [, Elkhart. St. Joseph Bank. Main Office. 1st Bank. Main Office. the Elkhart Truth and the following River City Review Ticket Outlets: Suspended Chord in Elkhart. South Bound Records in Ft. Wayne. The Record Co. in Plymouth. Fanta-C Records in 
r Benton Harbor. and River City Records on Western 
r r Ave., U.S. 31 North. Mishawaka Ave. in South Bend. 
r and Dunes Plaza in Michigan City. 
r 
~ 
out, however, that problems 
will compound in the coming 
years as the campus continues 
to enlarge. 
Dan Ryan, a transfer student 
from Bostorr College, is sur­
pri<:t>d at the parking problem 
at Notre Dame. 
·!JC has a lot mort~ com­
muters than Notre Dame," he 
said, "but they seem to have 
solved their problem. BC 
utilized their space much more 
effectively than Notre Dame." 
Wall suggested that no one in 
particular is at fault: everyone 
contributes to parking compli­
cations. One ofWall's concerns 
is the compliance with reg­
ulations. 
''Often-times someone will overstay their parking permit, or park in a reserved section," Wall said. "This leads to someone else taking another's place and the,, problem just becomes worse. 
Adherence to parking reg­ulations is not Wall's only concern. "Some students feel the University just does not want them to drive on campus He-wever, safety is a factor. 
"Lake Road, for examle, is geared for pedestrian traffi._,'' Wall continued, "yet many do not obey the speed limit or stop signs. We're lucky not~jng serious has happened." 
About three years ago plans were proposed to expand park­ing lot section D-1 at a cost of approximately $4000. The plan was rejected, and the over­crowding was temporarily allev­iated by re-shuffling parking assignments to nearby lots. 
Wall envisions the creation of a Trafic and Parking Commis­sion to help organize possible solutions. He believes expan­sion of existing facilities near the ROTC building is a definite possibility. 
''By opening an unmanned gate on the west side, traffic off US31 could be diverted and also provide more parking for Pangborn and Fisher Halls," Wall observed. 
"Right now we're getting by, but with the development of a new dorm something has to be done." he reiterated. 
United Way kick-off 
The campaign kick-off for the United Way Family Day will be held this Saturday, Sept. 8, at 
11:00 a.m. in Potawatomi Park, South Bend. 
Th.is giant community picnic will feature entertainment throughout the day, including food, music, a softball tourn­ament. and the ascension of a hot air balloon. AJI are invited to attend. 
r r 
' ~~--~--------------------­
The Observer-SportsBoard 
(""-_B_as_e_bal_l---J) 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 


EAST 
W L Pet. GB IS2 55 .599 76 54 .585 2V2 73 61 .545 7112 71 63 .530 9% 69 68 .504 13 53 81 .396 27% 
WEST 
78 ro 565 77 60 562 
V2 
65 72 .474 12V2 
17% 57 80 .416 
60 77 .438 
20% 53 83 .3SD 
24 
Monday's Games Philadelphia ~-3, l'ittsburgh D-7 Montreal 7-6, New York 2-5, 2nd game 10 

innings St. Louis 2. C~icago 1 Cincinnati 6. Atlanta 5 Los Angeles 1. Houston 0 
San Diego 3, San Francisco 0. 
Today's Games New York (Ellis 2-6) at Montreal (May 7-2) St. Louis (Vuckovich 12 -9) at Chicago 

(Caudll D-6)San Francisco (Curtis 9-9) at San Diego (Shirley 6-13)Cincinnati (Pastore 3-6) at Atlanta (McWil­liams 1-2), (n)Los Angeles (Hooton 11 -10) at Houston (Williams 3-5 or Forsch 9-6), (n) Only games schedules 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
EAST W L Pet. GB Baltimore 90 46 .662 

-~ilwaukee 83 56 .597 8Y2 Boston 78 56 .582 _j)New York 74 60 -.552 15 Detroit 73 65 .529 18 Cleveland 70 68 .fiJ7 21 Tpronto 44 94 .319 47 
WEST 
California 75 63 .543 
Kansas City 73 64 .533 1% Minnesota 70 66 .515 4 Texas 66 71 .482 8Y2 

. Chicago 59 77 .434 15 Seattle 58 80 .420 17 Oakland 46 93 .331 29Y2 
o 
! 
Monday's Games 
Baltimore ~-5, Toronto 1-1, 1st g<'me, 11 
innings New York 10, Boston 6 Cleveland 4. Detroit 3 California 6, Chicago 5 Milwaukee 6, Oakland 3 Kansas City 1, Minnesota 0 Texas 4 Seattle 1 Today 1 Games 
Detroit (Petry 54) at Cleveland (Barker 5-4),
(n) , Boston (Torrez 14-9) at New York (Tiant1D-8(, (n) Kansas City (Gura 1D-9) at Minnesota (Koosman 17-11), (n) Chicago (Dotson D-0) at California lTanana 5-4), (n) 
Texas (Comer 13-10) at Seattle (Parrott 13-8), (n) 



Classifieds 
Notices 
. 

Morrissey Loan Fund Student loans $20 to $200. 1 percent interest charge. open M-F 11:3D-12:30. Basement of Lafortune. 
Typing in home. Fast, accurate, reasonable. Close by. Call272-4105 after 5 p.m. 
Used book shop. Open Wid., Sat., Sun. 
~7. Ral~:::_nan 1:113 Buchanan Rd. Niles. • 
Musicians-si~rs needed for·5:15 Sat. MMS at Sacr Heart or 5:00 Sun. at Kaer~n. Call Nick 3317. 
Pluse COIIII to the palW cut, wall-scroll 
and Chlliflllrt show, Sept. 4 to Sept. 7 
9:00 a.m.• 4:30 p.m. Lafortune student centlr. 
SMITH&CO. INCREDIBLE EtiT~RTAINMENT FOR YOUR PARTIES AND-FORMALS. MANY OATES STILL AVAILABLE. SPECIAL RATES FOR BOOKINGS MADE BEfORE SEPTEMIU 11. CALL BRIAN NOW AT 277-3i26. 
lost & Found 
1Found: ~u~!Y-t!cket~1~.•Call 8626.• 
(' Football ) 
NATIONAL FOOTBAU LEAGUE 
Amlltcln Cllllflrlncl Eat PF PA
W L T Miami 1 0 0 9 
7 
New England 0 0 0 0 0N.Y.Jets 0 1 22
a 25
Baltimore a 1 a
a 14 
Buffalo a 1 a 7 Central 
Houston 1 a a 29 't1 Cleveland 1 a a 25 22 Pittsburgh 1 o· a 0 0 Cincinnati 0 1 a a 10 Wilt Denver 0
1 0 0 10 
Kansas City 1 14 0
0 0
Oakland 17
1 0 0 24
SanDiego 16
1 0 0 33
Seattle 33
0 1 0 16 National Conference 
East 
Dallas 1 0 0 22 t\ Philadelphia 1 0 0 23 17 St. Louis 0 1 0 21 22 Washington 0 1 a 't1 29 N.Y. Giants 0 1 0 17 23 
Central Chicago 1 0 0 6 22 3 Minnesota 1 0 0 28 
0 0 31 16
Tampa Bay 1 Green Bay 0 1 0 3 6 
1 0 16 31
Detroit 0 
West Atlanta 1 0 0 40 ::14 Los Angela~ 1 0 17 24 New Orlean~ 0 0 1 0 34 40 San Francisco 1 0 22 28
0 
I Monday's Games 
~--­
---Pfttsb"tJrgh 16, 1'-Jew England 13, OT 
[continued from page B) 

and moved the offense just as efficiently as Lisch. 
And no matter who plays 9uanerback, they'll have an outstanding runnmg attack behind them. I don't have to tell you about Vagas Ferguson. He looks so good he scares me. Pete Buchanan is virtually unstoppable at fullback while Jim Stone and Bernie Adell, the star of Saturday's scrimmage with 114 yards, will provide solid backup strength. 
I notice another thing most ofyou are ignoring is Notre Dame's kicking game. Chuck Male has pr~ven time and t~e again ~at he is deadly mstde the opponent s 40-yard hne. Remember guys, those three-pointers add up. ' 
I guess it's safe to say that football is pretty important at Notre ~arne. Un~ess you're a member of the ultra-liberal (lunattc) frm~e that loudly claims we'd be better off without tt, you probably have a lot ofquestions about this year's team. Have patience, because most of them won't be answered until kickoff in Ann Arbor. Who knows, maybe you'll still be asking when 
·the fmal gong sounds in Tokyo come late November. 
Of course, for the more ambitious fans there are loads of preseason pigskin publications; every one of them boasting of ''A unique power rating system, '' or ''An accu-matic chart that lets ihe experts show JOU where your team will 
; finish. " The trouble ts, most of the "experts" ·aren't quite sure just where your team is starting out. They look at who graduated, who's coming 
Sports Briefs~--. 
Hockey team meets today 
There will be a meeting today for a_nyone interest~d in trying out for the hockey team. The meeting will be held in the A.C.C , Auditorium at 4 p.m. 
Gymnastic team organizes 
I 
All those interested in participating in gymnastic l1Hl.netition should go to St. Mary's Angela Athletic Center today at 4 p.m. 
· Practices will be held Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays at the Rock on the third floor, and Tuesdays and Thursda}'s at St. Mary's. All practices will start at 4 p.m. 
Hilton announces hotel plan 
According to reports in Frioay:s Cleveland Plain DMirr, the Hilton Hotels chain is planning the construction of a multi-level hotel near the Notre Dame campus. 
· "The Inn of the Four Horsemen,"1amed in honor of football's most famous backfield, will be erected close to the Notre Dame Stadium, according to reports. No ground-breaking date has been set. ' 

.. -·... · 

• • . Experts 
. back. They consider who's. coaching and who your team is going to play. Then they put it all together and tell you (for about $2.50, which is what most of these magazines cost) whether or not Notre Dame vs. USC will be a scalper's heaven or a turnstile fiasco. Sadly, the general consensus this year is that Notre Dame won't even smell the top tel?·. . 
I suppose the funniest thing about your predicttons is the way you handle the "Promis­mg Newcomers.'' Oh, your freshmen analysis is real creative. 
"Could be a great one, .. " or "Has super potential ... '' 
What you're really saying is that you haven't seen 'em so you don't know anything about 'em.. Another cop-out, guys. 
Well, I have seen 'em--Notre Dame's, that is·· and I believe Dan Devine when he says this may be the best freshmen class he's ever had. At a press conference, Devine was asked if there were any rookies who might help the team by, say, the middle of the season. 
''Some of'em will help us by the middle of the Michigan game." was the coach's response. 
So, Mr. Experts, keep trying. Lower your prices maybe, but keep trying. Next year, however, look a little closer and try being a little less "absolutely sure" about things no one can predict. 
Best Wishes, Frank 
P.S. Oh yeah, please send my $2.50 refund as soon as possible. 
• • . Politiski 
[continued from page B) 
tions. ·' Sh(· c;aw Notre Dame as an "opportunity to meet other students trorn all parts of the country." \. · 
When Politiski entered Notre Dame as a fr~hman, women's basketball was *ill a club sport. 
' . But during her sophomore Y~ar, the sport went varsity under., Petro , offering no 
. scholarships. . 
Politiskt praises Pe..tr~ for the time and effort s?.e puts into her · · team saymg, she engages strong competition for us to 
, face and really wants to see 
1 Irish women's basketball be­come more visible. She is a vr>rv knowledgable coach a·•d along with our assistant, Bo Scott, us brought us a long way." 
As one of the main gears in 
the machinery that makes the Irish women's basketball team function,. Politiski stands out in the record books. Just a shade under six-foot tall, Politiski dominated the boards for the Irish last year, hauling in 199 rebounds in 22 ·~ames, for an avera~e ofover nme per game. 
Polittski stands second in scoring to only Carol Lally, who graduated last year. As Notre Dame's starting center, she t~llied245_points for an average ot 11.1 pomrs per €;£71<;, ~.s . field goal percentage of .394 and a .556 percentage from the free throw line. 
Recorded in the annals are Politiski's present recotds in single season -most rebounds, best rebound average, most 
[co11tinued on page 4] 

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All cla5sifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the maH. 
Desperately need 2 GA tix to MichiganWanted: 2 Michigan State tickets ­
and/or Geor~ia Tech games as soon as
student or otherwise. Call Pat 8913. 
possible. Ca I 1951. 
Will' sell my soul for Michigan State tickets. Call 277-5128.
For Sale 
---BEER MONEY·I need tix, student 9GA. 
for ali home games. Reasonable offers. Sale: sofa, floor lamp, buffet stuffed Mick-8212. chair, refrigerator. Call 289-9725. 
Want season football passes. Will pay Sansui G-2000 stereo receiver. 16 good $. Call 8092. watts/channel . Excellent condition. 
GA tlx needed for home games. Call LouMike 8856. 
3171. Going home for break or ThanksgivintUnited Airlines fiJ percent ott coupons 2) for sale. $50.00 each, or best offer. Call Pat at 237-4273 between 9-5. 
Personals 
1978 Corvette L-82 2600 miles loaded ­drastically reduced. Call 289-1695. 
John Malcolm -Thanks for lunch. At least someone remembered Jon MischFor Sale: • take note!
(1) Excellent condition: Ru~ed winter boots, darkbrown; Size 8V2. 5. 
Attractive young female sex symbol,
~) Pro Keds sneakers. Size 8V2: $10. 
interested in meeting mabn
all Jeff 1386. 
~oun~e. Call Baine at 1294. 
.S. men need not apply.
Tickets 
To "One Humorous Guy": The weekend was much too short but a good one. 
Tiger Desperate for 2,3, or 4 GA tix to an" home game for anniversary present, Ca I Bob at 1166. 
Lost: one sat of keys on a ring with 1 Camaro emblem, probably near 'Shag. Call Scott or Jo; 277-11361. 
Lost: Gold necklace in shape of a tennis racket with pearl. Gall Cindy 272-4267. 
Lost: Gold pocket watch, engraved 
D.A. Y., 5-28-79. Grut sentimental value. Reward. Dave-3670. 
For Rent . 
Way (US31) North, Roseland, or call Mr. Cooper at 272-7818 for appointment. 
Clean-up man needed 6days a week, 3-4 hours each morning. Call .Jim at 
233-0438. 

Attention serious Chicago Bear Fans! You can earn as much as $500 watchinR their regular season games this fall. 1 you are detail minded & enjoy keepinH records, Apply now to: the Footbal Research Corporation Dept. 2, 6 E 45th Street, New York, N.Y. 1()017 
1 1 
~ 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 1 
1 
Furnished country house for rent. About 9 minutes travel, private, huge lot, ideal for 3 -6 people. 277-3604 or 287-7018. 
House for Rent Easily accommodates 5 -6students. Call 256-2405. 
Apartment for rent, $100.00 rebate offered. Apt. 3C Notre Dame Apt. Ask for Bob or call 283-179'1 ('103 Grace Hall) and ask for Bob. 
I 
Wanted 
II"Mt-time cocktail waitress needet for foo~ball weekends and occasional i>an­quets ,.. must be 21. Apply in per;on after 5::lG at The Oar House 231 Dixie Waitresses wanted full or part-time at Indiana's finest niteclub. Top Pay • hourly $ t~s $ commission. Apply at Vegetable uddiesdowntown. (you must be.21) 

Wanted: Used rwfrlgerator pl'lflrably 4-6 cu.ft. Call 671i6. 
Part time (3 nites) and full time work available, all positions needed -evenings 
• apply in person -Nicola's Restaurant. 809 N. Michigan St. close to campus-dishwasher, busbOy, piua maker, clean­up & sugply person (this is afternoons) • Talk to ina. 
Need ride to and from Purdue this weekend. Please call Martin at 283-3664. 

I need someone to help me clean my big, old house on Friday afternoons each week. ~will provide lun~h2J~F­
tion 91 .fiJ rier houc call 

,~~~~~ ~-----------------~ ~-~-~~--~·-·-------~-----------­
The Observer 

..1 -------· 
§. I Rebels lose city
0 
0I1~ ~ ~ 
I ·~ !:>-,....-4
~
I 
P. "1;7""7 
I ~ 
I ~0 CUU I ""-0 •C 
0, 0. 
• 1,... C1) 
I ._ ' 
.........-:~
N ~ 
I 1 
I
1 
.. ...-,
... .
-' 1
I I
I ._-, """'I
I
1 
I
I I 
•~
I
I I ~ 
1> 


I~ fil 
... 
"' 
• -. 


Vl 
1 ~ ::> :t:j
1 r 1"'\ ~t--C C\S~ 
\1 .J 
~
I u 
~ V"\
I Z rT, N
I ~ 
I 0 ~ 
~ 

~ I MAHABAD, Iran (AP)-Kurd­0'\ ish rebels }'esterday began Cl) 1 pulling out of Mahabad, their ~ stronghold city, under heavy'§. I attack from the two sides by ,...., I Iranian army troops backed by 
<IJ tanks, fighter planes and heli-I cthter gunships.I e state radio in Tehran 
quoted the commander of theI 64th division as saying the cityI was under complete govern­
ment control.
From the roof of the Mahabad I hotel, Kurdish fighters could be 
seen starti1. to withdraw forI the surroun mg hillsides after a 

.. I days' struggle to hold off theI government troops.
Dr. Saeed Habid Zadeh, chief -i. 1 1 doctor at the military hospital, 
• I said 35 wounded Kurds fled the 
• 

r 1"'\ I ··· 

'-' .J Vehicles regi,""u:red to stu­-------1 dents oftbe University of Notre
J Dame and bearing valid Notre 
I ~' -_ 
I 00 
~ 
I U ~' 
I Cl) ~ .::: Q.J V ' 0. 
I I ...........-4 _j Q) 1 0\ ~ 
~ .,..... 
1(/)~o\
I• CI)N 
I lr . . 1 

~ aman troops gam contro
1 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~= 

1 SMC securit_y issueS ~ inew parking polic_y
§ I The Saint Mary's_College .....lr.r.s;igned for faculty, staff, .. I u?3 I Security Department has inaug-admz'ttis.trative or visitor use. 
I~ ~fh ~· 
IQ u ~~ 
I 

~ 81
I ~I 
I 0 ·~I ·~ ~I
1--------1 

•
" 10 
10 


-.,. c 0 
., < z~ <{ 
-.. !:2z
-:X:<{u­• -a ~z 
• 
-....•" a::O 1-:X: 
oz 
zw 
-CD
• :i:r J 1­
-
::> • 0 
Vl 
hospital when "they realizedI government forces might be in 
Mahabad, in a matter of a few1 hours." •I Complete casualiry figures, 
including government losses.I were not immediately avaible.I Army helicopters rocketed the 
· and straffed near the former Mahabad army garrison. AtI least six government helicop­ters were seen rocketing rebel
I 

urated new parking and vehicle regulations for Notre DameI students who drive to the Saint \.-.1 Mary's Campus to visit or to QJ I take classes. The observance of0.. I these regulations will assureI that everyone driving and pa1}J· ing on campus will be able to c.ro so with maximum conveniefi'ce 
~ R I
I I I
1 
I 
I
I 
Dame decals may park in the following locations on weekdays between the hours of8 a.m. and 6 p.m. in areas assigned for student parking: Hav1can Lot, McCandless Lot and LeMans Lot. 
Tickets wzll be issued t/ vehicles with Notre Dame students decals are parked in 
the Made/eva Lot or in areas 
· · · h h'll "d
.posltlons 10 t e 1 s1 e~ ,,
An Iranian armored column of 
14 tanks, armored personnel 
carriers and trucks rumbled 
into the northern outskirts of 
Mahabad before noon, under 
cover of fierce air force rocket­
ing, while a second government 
force fought the insurgents 
south of the city, witnesses 
said. 
Rebel troop·s, first began with-
drawing heayy guns into the
hills surroundmg Mahabad 
while hundreds of civilians carrying their b~longings
streamed out of the city. 
I ,
ran s oil chief warned in 
Tehran, meanwhile, the gov­
ernment might seek to revise 
contracts for selling crude oil to 
the United States 1f U.S. cong­ressmen continue criticizing the U.S.sale of kerosene and heat­ing oil to Iran. 
Rebels said that the army column thatshoved in from the north had taken control of the suburb ofMudkan-and a second government force had moved towards the city about 12 miles to the south, according to rebel reports trickling into Mahabad. 

Price $9.00 and $8.00 Tickets go 


Between t'i1e hours of 6 p.m and 7 a.m., Monday through Friday, and all day on week­ends, except football weekends, student vehicles may park in a:ny regular parking space on 'theThSai~t Mary's Campus. 
e wllowing general reg­ulations should be observed on the Saint Mary's Campus at all times: --Be sure to park between the lines in your parking space. --Do not park in front of dormitories which are marked ws_,g.tnhs."No Parking," tow-away
1 
Anyone who has a problem regarding a motor vehicle should contact the Security Department at once. Security is open 24 hours a day, seven days 
amawdeeekt . asEsv_setryyoeuffi.ort will be 
01 
La Fortune Ballroom Limit 10 tickets per person 
. 

Tues?ay, September 4, 1979-page 4 

This student has found an ideal way to combine his studies with enjoyment ofthe late summer sunshine. (Photo by Tim McKeogh] 
• • . Politiski 
(continued from page 7] ' pro, but states firmly that she free throws attempted, and wants to ''fulfill my potential most free throws made. during my senior year." ~--­
Basketball f?r J_aiie!Saorg---~]~ Lw.er-e to play for Hous­part of her soc1alllfe. "I enjoy ton, Jt would probably be next playing basketball because my year after graduation, but I'm teammate'S become a whole not sure if that type of lifestyle new circle of friends for me. would suit me." At the 
W{; sh_are experiences that I otherwise would not have. Basketball offers me an enjoy­able escape from my usual college routine. It is fun to be a part ofa new and growing-team and watching its progress." 
Politiski remains unsure on the subject of her becoming mo_mt'~t Jane i_s planning a career m accountmg rather than~ joing the ranks of professional athletes. However, the pro basketball option remains open to the lone junior draft choice in the WBA and the sport she now only enjoys as a hobby still could become her livelihood. 

Engineering
I I I 

(continued from page 3] 
The extra room will also allow programs which were once crowded due to lack of space to be expanded. Hogan noted that the undergraduate computer programs alone can be doubled. Hogan feels that the new edifice will not only increase the prestige of the Notre Dame engineering program, it will 
DOONESBURY 
1/{13R£WXI!Tia-IN.Y 71?1­81/NAL ti/IU llXJJctJ.fE 7D CJ?PeR.! 7H& COIKTUIU HEAR 7H& ISLAMIC !?£Pf~J­
LIC OF IRAN V5. 

"without doubt" improve the faculty and graduate student body within ·the engineerin-g department. 
''Though we have always had a good undergraduate reputa­tion, our post-graduate reputa­tion has been hurting. The new building should more than cor­rect that, since most of the problem was overcrowding. 
by Garry Trudeau 


-
-~--­
/ 

The Observer Tuesday, SeJ?tember 4, _1979 -pa,ge 5 
Renovations create possibilities for Stepan 
by Robbie Moore StaffReporter 
Renovations in Stepan Center may open the facility to greater 
recreational  use in  the  near  
future.  
Last  spring,  at  the  May  

meeting of the Board of Trustees, Student Government submitted a proposal suggest­ing the use of Stepan as a facility for housing student suitable surface for indoor waiting for the arrival of two more fully. " sports activities. Vita, along backboards. As soon as Vita, Roche emphasized that one with Bill Roche, student body Roche, and Fr. John Van of Student Government's president, is now lobbying for Wolvlear, vice-president of obj~cti~es is to s~ek e;~eater 


the facility to remain open 24 Student Affairs, can set up a utilization of athletic facilities. hours a day. "Stepan Center is time· schedule for guards the In addition to renovating not being used at all now," Vita building will be opened for Stepan Center, Roche and Vita noted. student use. plan to work on opening up the 
The delay in opening up "Stepan is a facility with ACC for longer periods of time Stepan is due to problems in potential," Roche said, "and which will help students ge~ setting up a security guard from a positive point of view, ~ore use out of existing facil­system in the building and we wanted to_ see it developed ltles. 

Interested In Newspaper_Work? 
We~re Interested In You... 

ND:  SMC:  
Frosh Open House  meeting  
7:30 Thursday  7:00 Wednesday  
3'rd Floor LaFortune  McCandless Piano Room  

SMC_iunior 
pe~forms 
in Chica~o 
NOTRE DAME, Ind.--­
Patricia Miller, junior music 
major at Saint Mary's College, 
was one of 12 national piano 
audition winners selected to 
perform in the ''New Music 
Highlights Recital" at the Sixth 
Annual Midwest Keyboard 
Festival held in Chicago on 
August 21. ­
Miller was one of three 
colle~iate winners in the com­
pe!itton which was open to all 
levels. She was also the only 
finalist from the state of 
Indiana. Her performance in­
cluded works by· Charles 
Wuorinen and Robert Helps. 
Ms. Miller is a piano student 

of Assistant Professor Ruth Fischer of the Saint Mary's College department of mustc, ..,Wg__<k!ivered a lecture on ''Source-References --for Recently Published Piano· 
Music" at the Festival. 


Notre Dame -St. Mary's campus wide 


Welcome· Back Party 
Friday, Sept. 7, 1979 7:30 -12:30 off campus: 
~ 

South Bend Union ~Train Station corner of Lafayette & South 
Live music, food, 100 kegs of beer 
Tim Hanlon,magician donation $4.00 -All proceeds go to the Univers!ty SCholarship Fund 
Chartered buses will leave at 7: 30 and every halt hour after that, from the ND circle and SMC Leman's Hall -College -ID must be shown to enter 
admimstration of either msriturion. 
Editorial Board 
The news is reponed as accurately and 

_The Observer-· 
as objectively as possible. Edirorials Editor-in-chief .......Ro<;emary Mills Features Editor .. Kathleen Connelly represent the opin1on of a majority of 
Managing Editor ...... uiane Wilson Photo Editor . . . . . .. Doug Chnstian Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Edirorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor . . . . . ... Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of 
Execurive Ne-ws Editor ....Mike Lewis 
The _Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­
News Editor . . . . ....... Mark Rust Business Manager ..... Steve Odland 
able ro all members of the community, 

newspaper published by students of News Editor .......... .Mike Shields Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan 
the Umversity of Notre Dame and and. the free expression of varying 
5aint Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy 
Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters. is 
. Sports Editor . . .......Mark Perry Adv.-nising Manager. . ..Bob Rud\ 
necessarily reflect the policies of the . -encouraged. 
Controller ..........Kevin Manion 
/ 


i"..• .... 

News iri brief 
Tuesday, September 4, 1979 -pa.ge 2 
President Carter returns from vacation 
Industrywide strike threatens _film industry 
to confront rugged political battles 
LOS ANGELES (AP) --With the first industrywide strike in more than 30 years a definite possibility, leaders of the film industry's major technical and crafts unions plan to meet witn the film producers' representatives tomorrow. TherC' has been no strike industrywide since 1946, and such a work stoppage could shut down producers represented by the Motion Ptctures and Television Producers Association just when most are preparing for the peak fall season. 
Court rules only sane can commit suicide 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -A state Appeals Court says that only sane 
peopl~ can be ruled to have committed suicide because an r1nsanf! ·person •o:cannot {Qrlll the intent." 1In the opinion issued l¥iday by the 4th Distiid Court -or 
f'.ppe~ls, presiding Justice Gerald Brown said suicide is an mtenuonal act. The ruling would invalidate insurance J>olicy clauses that 
forbids payment on life insurance claims for people who kill themselves. , 
Court strips l.JJne Ran~er ~f his black mask 
LOUISVILLE*KY (AP)-Clayton Moore, stripped of the black mask he wore for 30 years as television s Lone Ranger, appeared with a new, court-ordered 'face covering' here yesterday, telling a Labor Day crowd that, 'the judge shot me down.' The CotJrt order said that Moore must wear a ''face covering'' when 1 ,)~.traying the Lone Ranger in r,ersonal appearances he.-:wc;· he becomes the Lone Ranger when he puts on the mask r:ights to the character are owned by Lone Ranger rc:Jevl!>IOn Inc.' a SIJbsidiary of the Wrather Corp.' the court 
satd. Moore sported a pair of dark brown sunglasses yesterday and vowed to fight the ruling. ' 
Saudi Arabia becomes lar~est U.S. arms bu_yer 
~ASHINGTON (AP)_-Since the fall of the Shah of Iran last winter, Saudi Arabia has emerged as by far the biggest U.S. arms buyer, a Wisconsin congressman said Monday. 
'Saudi Arabia is buying 11 times as much as the second lar­gest military customer,' said Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis., a member of the House Armed Services Committee. Aspin said oil-rich Saudi Arabia has signed up for $3.7 billion, or 58 percent, of the $6.3 billion in goods and services that the Pentagon has agreed to sell under the Foreign Military sales program since February. 
Indiana man warms home with cold wind 
BUFFALO* IND. (AP)-When the cold winds blow Tom Zaborski doesn,'t. mind. His. windmill is turning the' breezes into electncay to power hts home with enough left over to sell to the 
local utiltty. Zaborski began building his 40-foot windmill in November 
I ?77 ,a_nd sars this November should be a profitable time fdr htm, smce wmds are usually strong in Indiana then. The Indiana Public service Commission is studying the situation to deterJ!line w~at rate structure ca~ be designed for any energy 
Zaborskt contnbutes to the Whtte County Rural Electric Membership Corporation. 
Americans seem willing to pay more _for ~asoline 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Americans are increasicgly willing to pay higher prices for energy-including gasoline-if a steady supply is assured, according to a number of senators and House members now ending a month-long Congressional recess. 
Weather 
Mostly sunny and warm today and tomorrow. Fair and mild tonight. High today in the low and mid 80's. Lows tonight in the low 60's. A little warmer tomorrow with highs in the mid and upper 80's. _ PLAINS* GA. (AP)-With a two-week summer vacation be­hind him, President Carter returns to the White House facing a crucial (our· months that could go a long way toward his political future. 
He planned to leave his home­town yesterday following a long holiday weekend, and was sche­duled to reach the White House i~ time for a Labor Day recep­tiOn on the South Lawn in the evening. 
Save for a few stolen hours on a Mississippi River steamboat, at , Camp David, and in Plains, the president's vacation, during 
1 

which he gave more than SO speeches, afforded litt~e oppor­tunity for relaxation. 
His retJirn tq Washington brin~s him back tq a Congress balkmg at his 'energy proposjils, uncertainty about\ the arms 
I limitation treaty, contiquing concern about S,en. Edward M. Kennedy's presidentialiambi­tions and possible legal\ acti~ns aimed at two ~of his s~ members. • 
The key items od the presi­dent's agenda between now and the end of the year, according to Deputy White House press Secretary Rex Granum, will be the windfall profits tax proposal, the late September vistt of Mexican President ] ose Lopez Portillo and congressional work on a national health plan. Energy will be the No. I topic when the Mexican president confers with Carter in Washington. 
In foreign affairs, there is the senate debate on the strategic arms limitation treaty and Am­bassador Robert Strauss' effort to negotiate in the Middle East. 
And within the ranks of Car­ter's advisers and counselors, there will be the touchy process of making the new, revised Cabinet and White House staff function smoothly. Carter and his aides have made it clear that the president will want to gauge quickly the impact his August energy cru­sade has had on Congress, 
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Rod Beard Asst. Night Editor: Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
~yout Staff: Cindy Kliros, Bill Keenan, john Ferroli Sports Layout: Beth Huffman Typists: M.B. Budd, Beth Huffman, Kate Huffman, Beth Willard, Came Butt Copy Editors: john Ferroli, janet Rigaux News Editor: Mark Ru.sf Ad Layout: Flo 0 'Connell Photographer: Tim Mc-Keogh 
Tile Obslnlr (USPS -1211) Is pulllislllcl Monday tlnugll Fridly 11­
cept during uam IIIII YICIIilll periods. The ObserVer Is publlsllld br the s1udltrts If Nllrl Dlml IIIII 511111 Mary's Cllllgl. Sublcripllla lillY Ill purdllsed 11r sa ,..-a ,. .....,ll'lltlle.........l'..... 
0. fNirl ~.......... s-d J ella postage '*'· ,...,. Dallll, .... 
dillll.4&551. The Observer is I ll*llblr II till AIRcilt8d P,.., All ,....... rlgllts .,. riiii'VIII. 
which is returning from a one month break from steamy Washington. 
Energy was the most frequent subject ofthe dozens of speech­es the president gave at town meetings and at locks and dams along the upper Mississippi, and one ofCarter's oft-repeated ~oals was to remind his aud­Iences that they should make their voices heard by the vaca­tioning members of Congress. 
The question remains:can Car­ter translate that into pressure on Congress to enact hts propo­sal to tax oil industry profits derived from his related de­cision to remove oil price con­trols. 
Literar_y Festival 
' 
.
meettnK 
All sophomores interested in becoming involved in the 1980 Sophomore Literary Festival sh,ould attend an organizational meeting on Wednesday, Sept. 5, at 7:00p.m. in the LaFortune ballroom. 
Sophomores wishing to help prepare the festival's program and those desiring to act as guides for authors and poets 

. are especially needed. 
• • • David 
[continued from page 1] 
Damage estimates in Palm Beach County reached $I mil­lion said civil defense spokes­man Gary Goldstein. 

The eye of Hurricane David brushed Singer Island, a resort hideaway near the mansion city ofPalm Beach, about noon, and 75 mph winds shrieked through West Palm Beach. 
Pre-law society plans meeting 
-· 
The Pre-law Society will hold its ftrst meeting on Wednesday, September 5, from 8-IO p.m. m the library auditorium. Guests will be David T. Link, Dean of the Notre Dame Law School-and Robert ] . Waddick, assistant dean of the college of ins and letters. 
All those interested in going to law school should attend. This meeting is mandatory for interested seniors. 
Plsss-_fail deadline 
Wednesday, September 5, is the last day for any student to declare pass/fail status for classes. 
Carter wants a so-called 'wind­fall profits' tax to accompany his program for gradually endmg price controls on domes tically produced oil. 
Players plan first production 

· The Student Players will begin their I979-80 season with the fall production of "Stor, the World, I Want to Get Off. ' The performance will be presented on Nov~mber 9, IO,I6, and 17 in 
Washington Hall.  - 
Auditions  will  be  held  
Wednesday,  Sept.  5,  and  

Thursday, Sept. 6, at 7:30 p.m in room I22 Crowley Hall. 
Brassil, OnU:frak named to new positions 
Michael Onufrak has been aJ>pointed Senior Copy Editor of The Observer. Onufrak has worked as a copy editor and as a senior staff reporter. 
The responsibilities of the senior copy editor entail the coordination of all copy editors and the maintenance of a consistent style. He also works closely with the production staff in regard to headline content. 
Any student interested m working as a copy editor should contact Onufrak. 
Margie Brassil, currently the Assistant Saint Mary's Editor, !1as been promoted to Saint Mary's News Editor, a newly formed position. She will work closesly with Saint Mary's Editor Ellen Buddy to coordin­ate coverage of Saint Mary's events. 
The creation of a second Saint Mary's eqitorial position is an effort to provide better coverage ofSaint Mary's news. Any Saint Mary's students interested in working for The Observer are invited to attend a meeting Wednesday night at 7 in the McCandless Piano Room 
ARmANpP'S 

BARBER & HAIR STYLJ SHO.e. ------­
1437N.~~Dr 
South Bend I 
~',;. 27]-0615 . · Sue, Ruthie, Kim 
Armando~~tylist 
mon-wed-frl 8-5:30 \uea-thura 8-8 pm aat 8-2 by appt. only aat-no appt. needed 
' \ 


Ifyou think you've got roommate problems, then consider the plight ofthis Son'n College resident. [Photo by 'Tim McKeogh] 
Dorney optimistic : HPC plans more active role 

by Carol Buzzard 
Ellen Dorney, the new Hall Presidents' Council Chairman, is optimistic about the HPC and the role it will play this year. ''There are a lot of very sharp people in the council who are 

mterested  in  seeing  things  
done," Dorney said.  
Dorney  stated  that  Dean  

Roemer's alcohol directive and the new campus party guide­lines will be high on the HPC agenda. Dean Roemer issued an alcohol directive prohibiting kegs on campus and limiting the locations of section parties to specific parry rooms. 

One of Dorney's major con­cerns with the new guidelines is that many dorms do not have adequate areas for parties. ''There is a great diversity in the quality of social space," Dorney remarked. "Some dorms, such as Flanner & Grace, have good party facil­'i'ties, whereas others, like Morrissey, have virtually none." She believes that there should be as much opportunity for social interaction as pos­sible. 
According to Dorney, the HPC will also soon be dealing with the issue of off-campus students being involved in interhall athletics. "Some halls want off-campus students to play in interhall sports,'' Dorney states. "At this time, that would require a complete policy·change.'' 
The HPC will approach many of the usual issues such as parietals, and new ones as they arise. Dorney believes that the direction that the HPC will take ~his year ~epends upon how the Issues anse. 
Dorney believes that the HPC will take a more active role in student issues this year. "The HPC wants to see some changes done in order to better student life,'' she said. Dorney is very enthusiastic about the new hall presidents and feels that they are more interested in the genuine needs of the stu~~~t body than in social acuvmes. 
Dorney believes that there can be a good, personal work­ing relationship berween the administration and the HPC. 
"There's a great deal of mutual respect and admiration berween Dean Roemer, Fr. Van Wolvlear, Bill Roche, and myself,'' she remarked. Dorney was pleased with· Dean Roemer's efforts to obtain student input for his alcohol directive over the summer. Roemer sent rough drafts of the directive to Van Wolvlear, SBP Bill Roche, and Dorney herself for comments. 
Dorney stated that she thought last year's HPC had a very difficult year, much ham­pered by the failure of the student rights forum, which she believed put a damper on the mood of the whole organization. 
"But even if there was not a great deal of progress on the whole," remarked Dorney, ''the people were a very good group who handled the sit­uation and worked excellently together and i.~ connection with other groups. 
The first meeting of the HPC is tomorrow night. The speakers include Jim O'Hare, the judicial co-ordinator; con­cerning the alcohol directive; and Dr. Rom Kelly, director of non-varsity athletics; concern­ing off-campus interhall ath letics. 
Mock Republican 
•
conventton scheduled 
The 1980 mock Republican national convention at Notre Dame will be held next March. The event is being co-spon­sored by Student Government, the College Republicans, and the Government Honor Society. 
The mock convention usually receives national exposure and frequent visits by actual pres­idential candidates. 
Applications for the position of convention chairman and various committee chairman posts will be accepted until ~:00 
p.m. on Monday, September 
10. These will be reviewed by an executive committee headed by SBP Bill Roche, SBVP Bill Vita, Student government pub­liciry director Paul Lewis, exec­utive coordinator Rick Gobbie, and representatives of the College Republicans and the Government Honor Sociery. 
Applications are available at the student government offices on the second floor of LaFortune. For information, call Paul Lewis at 84 51 or Rick Gobbie at 1073. 
br .\ficb.ul Onu(rJk · StJ/(Rt·port.·.,. 
Though it rook seYen months 
longer than planned. the llni­
Yersin·'s new Engineering 
Building is completed. san' fl)r 
a few laboratorY facilities. 
According w Dean of Engim·· 
e:rir:g . .T oseph C. Hogan. the_ 
tanhtY "ts l)'i per cent ot 
occupancY." He added that 
most oft'ices are filled and 
Classes. as welt as labs. are 
being held there this semester. 
The building. erected at a cost ·of approximateh· $H million. 
consists of fiye Hoors .. two 
underground. three. above.. 
constrw.:ted behind rhe old 
engineering building across 
from the Notre Dame Football 
1
Stadium. 
According to Hogan-. · '60 per 
cent of the building is located 
below tile ground since the 
lower floors are more than twice 
the size of those above 
ground.'' 
''The building extends fifty 
feet east under the campus as 
well as under the parking lot 
across the street,'· Hogan 
added. · 
Begun on April 27, 197H, the 
building should have been 
completed by December I, 
1978. Due to the harsh winter 
of last year, however, above 
ground construct ion had to be 
halted for about three months. 
Hogan added fhat changes 
withtn the Hickey Construction 
Company of South Bend, the 
University's contractor, also 
delayed cons! ruction. 
"We began moving in last 
June, but not in earnest until mid-.J ulv. · · Hl)gan s;tid 

The new faciluv wilt give the engineering department srv· eral nt·w ;id\';HlLigrs. paninl­brh· relieving the pr,)bkm ,,f l)\'t'l'l'fl)wding in bbm·atlll·irs. 
·'Labs have been d:tngrr,>uslv l)H'rl·r'''nicd. · · H<>gan said. I k added "the same is true: ,,f class rooms. · · 
The new building will all,,w 
Jl.OO Q;FF!! 
ony olbum or tap• (now thru S•pt. 15) with thla coupon 
18,000 albu7na and 
Op•n 10 to 10, ·7days o week 
Rlv•r City R•cotds 
:·~-:,:;::~+::· 
50970 U.S. 31 North 3 mu;:rnotth of' compua 
..... 217-...£••£ 

~­

-----...-------­
Tuesday, ~tember 4, 1979-pa,ge 8





SRorts 
by Beth Huffman Women's Sports Editor 
Summarizing Notre Dame's 
1979 contribution to the col­
legiate basketball draft, we see 
that Flowers went to Cleveland 
in the second round, Laimbeer 
joined Flowers at Cleveland in 
the third round and Politiski , went to Houston in the eighth round. 
HOLD IT! Who's Politiski? 
Surely that DiggerPhelps'hoop­
ster never picked up his share 
of ink. 
That's because Politiski 
never/layed for Digger. SHE 
playe for Sharon Petro on the 
Notre Dame women's basket­
ball team. 
With its et~hth-ro•Jnd pick of Jane Politish in this summer's Women's Basketball Associa­tion draft, the Houston An~els surprised everyone .. especially Jane. While never anticipating a call from some ream during the draft as did Bruce Flowers and. Bill Laimbeer, Politiski rece.i.yed a phone call from some friends informing her of the draft · a call she took lightly and considered a joke. But, when Petro called and confirmed Houston's selection, Jane could in no way take the situation 
·with a laugh. 
"I was very suprised, and quite ple:tse.d," _ Politiski, Not~e 
Dame s ttrst ever women s dfaft choice, said. 
Politiski, the youngest of three children, hails originally from Doran, Minnesota. With its Population of 80, Doran is smaller in number than Badin Hall, Politiski's on-campus home. Presently a senior enrolled in the College of Business, she initiated her ed­ucation in a "back-water" grade school with just seven students in her class. 

Or an_vthinK? 
Experts don 't know everything 

Frank LaGrotta 
Well, maybe they know something I don't. But, after watching the team practice and seeing the scrimmage on Saturday, I think there's a few things "the experts" don't know. (Q: How do you drive an expert crazy? A: Tell him there's something he doesn't know.) So I wrote them a letter to set the record straight. 
To: Experts, Inc. 
From: Frank LaGrotta 
Dear Mr. Experts, 
How are you? I read your magazine, and, well, guys--I think you're underestimating Notre Dame. True, the Irish play a devastating schedule this year and I'm fully aware of the fact that four of their opponents, USC (1), Purdue (6), Michigan (7) and Michigan State (10) are ranked in the top ten of most preseason polls. (Not to brag, but were you aware of the fact that no other team in the country can make that claim? Of course, probably no other team would want to.) But the schedule doesn't seem to bother Devine or his players. 
"We'll ,Play 'em just liko-Moose Krause schedules em,'' Devine joked at a recent r,ress conference. Everybody laughed but him. 'It is a tough schedule,'' he stghed. Surely the understatement of the year. 
Into WBA 


Houston drafts Politiski 
By the time Politiski entered school record of 37 feet, 11 high school, women's basket­inches in the shot put, a record ball was just beginning to that still stands. surface as an exciting and Breckenridge High honored popular snort. She was the Politiski with several awards starting center on the basket­upon her graduation, one of ball team for three years, and which was the Phil Canfield was named the Most Valuable award as "scholar -athlete . Player Award twice. citizen."'' Also valedictorian of 
Besides captainin~ the her 140-member class, she was basketball team her semor year the first woman ever to receive at Breckenridge High School, the Canfield award. she also captained the volley­In selecting Notre Dame to ball team in its first year of further her education, Politiski existence. Under Politiski's states that she was '"fascinated leadership, the team made it to by its aura and drawn by its the state tournament. academic and athletic retrota-
Politiski also proved strong 
[continued on page 7]

on the track field. She set a 
College coaches collect 
large sums for media spots 
DES MOINES, lOW A (AP) -$40,000. Alabama's Bear Bryant will get Bryant's Sunday TV show nets $70,000, Oklahoma's Barry him somewhere between Switzer will receive $65,000 and $60,000 and $70,000 per sea­Nebraska's Tom Osborne will son. He also owns .Part of the get $60,000 for appearing on advertising agency mvolved in radio and television shows this producing it and is a stock season. holder of the show's three 
Those estimated amounts are sponsors, the Register said. in addition to coaching pay that averages $45,000, the Des Moines Register reported in a 
copyrighted·. survey. In US. Open 
Lou Holtz of Arkansas will get about $55,000 in outside m­come, while Dan Devine of 
Borg advances to quarter_finals
Notre Dame and Chuck Fair­
jane Politiski was drafted in the eighth round by Houston ofthe WBA this past summer. [Photo by Tim McKeogh[ 
banks of Colorado both are in the $55,000 bracket, the survey NEW, YORK (AP)--Four-time showed. Wimbledon champion Bjorn 
Also listed were Bo Schem­Borg had to struggle for the bechler of Michigan and Fred first time in the 1979 U.S. Open Akers of Texas, $45,000; Vince Tennis championships, but still Dooley of Georgia and Jimmy advanced to the quarter-finals Johnson of Oklahoma State, with a 6-4, 1-6, 7-6, 7·5 victory 
But, hey Mr. Experts, we like it that way at 
Notre Dame. The players work harder, the 
pregame keggers are better and Saturday 
afternoons are more exciting than games against 
Podunk or East Cupcake U. -At least, no one will 
be able to accuse us of being complacent. 
The next thing you mention 1s how Notre Dame lost 12 of 22 starters from last year, and I have to admit that looks a little disheartening-· on paper. Out on Cartier Field, however, the names may have changed but the talent is still plentiful. I mean, where does it say that a starter can't be replaced? (Besides on page 23 of your magazine, that is.) And have any of you bothered to look at those replacements? 
Take quarterback, for instance. One of your swan songs bemoans the fact that no one can ever replace Joe Montana. Well, I hate to rewrite the lyrics but they said that about · Clements, too. And Theismann and Hanratty and ... well, I think you get the picture. It's a cop-out to say what Rusty Lisch will never do. 
But how about taking a look at what he's doing. Damn it guys, Rusty Lisch looks good. He's throwing well, moving the team, and as a result, they have confidence in him. 
"Rusty's a great athlete and everyone on the team knows he can do the job,'' Tim Fole-y told a gatherin§ of writers. Lisch's statistics from Saturday s scrimmage bear witness to that; ~ight of 15 for 97 yards. And the fact that he can roll out and run when he has to adds an extra dimension to the Irish attack. (Hey did any of you experts ever hear of Fran Tark~nton?) Of course, Tim Koegel is every bit as able, the big junior connected 12 times in 21 tries on Saturday 
[contimted on page7] 
over Dick Stockton Monday. 
Among the women, second­seeded Martina Navratilova beat no. 10 Greer Stevens of South Africa 6-2, 6-2; No. 4 Virginia Wade of Britain advanced when 12th-seeded Regina Marksikova of Czechoslovakia had to retire during the opening game be­cause of a twisted afilkle, and No. 5 Evonne Goolagong Cawley defeatedJeanne DuVall 6-3, 3-6, 6-0. 
Borg, who has never won the Open and needs a victory to keep alive his hopes for the Grand Slam, won h1s first three matches here with consummate ease, losing just 11 games in nine sets. 
''Those three matches were: 
very easy, maybe too easy," 
said Borg. "I couldn't tell l!ow 
well I'm playing. I know I'm 
going to run into a tough match 
before too long. " 
Borg got his tough match from Stockton, a 28-year-old Texan whose career has been hampered by injuries. 
Borg won the final three games of the first set, including a decisive service break in the ninth game. But Stockton refused to fold. He came out charging in the second set, attacking the net effectively and winning the first three games to take command. 
When Stockton broke service to win the opening game of the third set, Borg suddenly found himself behind in the match=-a most unusual position for the Swedish star. 
He responded like a champ­ton. 
Borg broke right back to even the set, which then went with service to the tiebreaker. With the score tied 2-2, Borg won four points in a row, passing Stockton with brilliant shots from the baseline. After Stockton scored on a volley, Borg beat him with a marvelous crosscourt passing shot to win the. tiebreaker 7-3 and the set 7-6. 
Still Stockton refused to quit. Mter giving up a break in the fifth game, he broke back to draw even at 5-5. But Borg bounced right back, breaking Stockton's serve at love, then holding his own service to close the match. 
Steelers 
edge Patriots 
FOXBORO, MASS. (AP) ­Rookie Matt Bahr capped a 69-yard march with a 41-yard field goal at 5: 10 of overtime Monday night as the Super Bowl champion Pittsburgh Steelers rallled for a 16-13 victory over the New England Patriots in their National Foot­ball League opener. 
Bahr, who missed a conver­sion and a field goal earlier, calmly split the uprights the fitst time the Steelers had the ball in overtime. 
Terry Bradshaw, a hero of last I January's ·super Bowl, came back after sittmg out most of the second period btcaus.e of a sprained toe and '.i 
fired a tying touchdown pass ot 21 yards to Sidney Thornton with less than five minutes remaining in regulation. Bahr, who missed an extra point earlier, th~n added the game­tying conversion. 




