., 
l 
1 
• • • Irish viCtory -piikf!J-£ 

Vol. XIV, No. 15 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's Monday, September 17, 1979 
Priorities include Mid East 
Kissinger cites foreign policy. • • 
an event of profound -geopoliti­radical forces. It creates an
by Mark Rust 
cal consequences,'' he sa1d. opportunity for radicals to cre­
News Editor 
The U.S. did not react strong­ate pressure. Once they are 
Dr. Henry Kissinger touched ly enough at that time, Kis­included they will want changes on Vietnam, the SALT talks, the singer suggested, because of and it won't be done through Middle East and Cuban military ''domestic divisive n ess.'' He talking--they want results.'' incursions during a one hour said that the end result of this Discussion on including the lecture Friday night at Indiana type of inaction shows itself in Palestinian Liberation Organiza­University at South Bend. ''moderate'' governments tion (PLO) was heightened four 
Kissinger, who spoke before around the world who feel an weeks ago when Andrew Young an audience of 800 with almost unsafeJrecedent has been set. held secret talks with that 1,000 people watching on video "An this," Kissinger con­group and, subsequently, re­
in four nearby rooms, told the tinued, "is the important issue. signed as United Nations am­assembled that "the U.S. can­The important matter is not a bassador. Since that time, not and will not tolerate the Soviet combat brigade in Cuba, Young has continued to rally ' systematic undermining of the thou~h this is also important. support for the PLO's inclusio_n balance of power." He placed The rmportant issue is that this in the peace talks. The PLO 1s all of his dtscussion of foreign represents a pattern of com­interested in Israeli withdrawal affairs within the context of a munist intervention.'' from the West Bank. Kissin~er historical view offoreign policy. "In the nuclear age, peace is agreed that Israel needs' ,'to 
"I want to stress, the situa­important--indeed, crucial--but make adjustments there.'' tion we find ourselves in today peace cannot be confrned to We have suffered from the goes back 15 years," the former occassional agreements on this notion that we can win the 
Secretary of State said. "We or that nuclear arms," he said. radical countries and politicians 
have backed off in our negotia­Kissin~er called U.S. policy over to our side by repeatin~ 
tions to the point that now-­of negotiating on arms while their slogans or sending emmt­
saries over to them,'' Ktssingerthrough the Wateq~ate years ignoring communist military 
and the Carter prestdency--we incursions in the Thirld World observed. 
have gone through a 15 year "a mistaken strategy ... very Kissinger also discussed the 
process at the end of which we dangerous.'' not-so-subtle influence of the 
face few military options except Kissinger said that he also USSR over the Conference of 
the destruction of civilization, considers negotiating with the Non-Aligned Nations, which 
while our opponent is ahead of Palestinians a mistake. ''Pales­met last week in Havana. The 

tinian inclusion in Middle East Dr. Henry Kissinger spoke at !USB on Fn"day night. [Photo
us in every signifigant military 
[continued on page 8]

catagory. peace talks will only reward the by Zenon Bidzinskz] 
"In the last 10 years we have 
had to come to grips with a 
world in which we no longer 
influence events relative to the 

lashes out at Soviet presence in Cuba
task we must accomplish,'' • • • Kissinger said. Since the U.S. can't do everything, "we must, for the first time, establish by Michael Onu(rak Kissinger criticized the Car-man in whom I have great Treaty and chances for peace in foreign policy priorities." Senior Copy Editor ter administration for "StofPing confidence, Kissinger replied the Mideast. Kissinger played 
Kissinger hsted two main ~trategiclreconnaisanceflightsover when questioned about the a key role in each of theses two priorities; protecting U.S. inte­Cuba " but added that he Carter administration's negoti­issues while serving in the rests through supporting "mo­CaHing the current Soviet supp~rts the administration in ating tactics. He added t~at he Nixon and Ford administra­
derate" forces against radical military presence in Cuba an its negotiations with the So-could not make; ~ny f~al Judge­tions. forces in the Middle East and ''unacceptable phenomenon,'' viets. Secretary of State Cyrus me';lts on Admmts~ratlOJ? tactics He said he is "opposed to the 
the Third World, and linking former SecretacyofState Henry . . until some result ts achteved. inclusion of the PLO in mideast 
Va~ce has been meetmg wtth "I support the Administra­
future Russian treaties and A. Kissin~er discussed Cuba peace negotiations,'' despite
negotiations with Cuban milita­and other tssues of internation­Sovtet ~bassador Anatoly tion's demand that the Soviet .recent clamor from Third World 
ry conduct. al importance at a press confer­Dobrymn for the past several combat presence in Cuba be nations who would like to see 
''When Cubans first ap­ence conducted on the campus days. ended," he added. the PLO included. 
peared in Africa as Soviet proxy of Indiana University at South "Sec!etary yance is a very Kissinger also commented on 
[continued on page 8]

forces in 1975, this represented Bend Friday afternoon. professtonal diplomat, . .a the Strategic Arms Limitation 


============================= 

Pro Soviet Amin reiKns; 4fKhanistan in turmoil 
NEW DELHI,Indiana{AP)-President Nur Mohammed Tarami 
of Afghanistan resigned the presidency and leadership of the 
ruling party yesterday, Radio Afghanistan reported, as 
intensifYing rebel warfare and political dissension pushed the 
country deeper into turmoil. · 
Tarami, ciung poor health, resigned as president in favor_of 
Prime Minister Hafizullah Amin. The 50-year-old Amm, 
considered a more hard-line communist than Taraki, had forced 
him into the background in recent months and emerged as the 
pro-Soviet regime' s3trongman. 
Afghanistan has been weakened by an internal split in the 
ruling Khalq (People's) Party and an insurgency by right-wing 
Moslem trioesmen, who now control about half the country 
~&. . . 
Taraki, a 62-year-old former journalist who once worked as a 
translator for the U.S. Embassy in the Afghan capital of Kabul, 
asked to be excused from his positions "in view of my bad 
health and nervous weakness,'' according to the Pushtu 
languape broadcast monitored here. 
Amin s takeover as president leaves him as the unquestioned 
dominant figure in Afghanistan. . ­
Taraki's resignation followed the dismissal Friday of the last 
•two military officers in Amin's Cabinet .. DiJ.>lomatic sources reported yesterday that the apparent Cabmet purge was !followed immediately by shooting and loud explostons in the capital, but could not say whether there was a dtrect link to the Ipo1itical developments. 
Taraki, although a Communist, was considered to be less [continued on page 8] 
'I 

I I I! 1 ,., ..•1-.) 
..~~t~~ 
--------------------~-~-~~­
, ~ ~ 
, r 
, r ,
, 
,r 
,
,
,
, 
r 
r 
,r 
r 
,r 
I r r 
' 
r 
' 
f 


News in brief 
Paramedics deliver baby from accident victim 
INDIANAPOUS (AP) -At:~ infant girl, .deli.vere? from her lifeless mother by p;u-amedi~li upder radiQ. drrecupns froQl a physician, battled tor her lite In ,ilD lndi!lfla~h~ hosplta1 esterday. The emergency Caesarian section d~liVerecf the full-term baby Saturday at the scene of a C3;f·tram,_ acqd_entthat killed the child' mo.ther. Tht; newborn g_rrl was I!l cnucal 
condition at Commumty_ Hospital here, -~yon B1vens, a hospital spokeswoman sa1d. . . _ , , . 
"We werent't trained to do anytP,mg like that, sa.d John Linahan, one of th.e paramedics who performed,, the 13-minute operation m tbe back of an amoulanc!!. But sometimes you have to work so fast you don't have ume to be scared or nervous.'' 
U.S. Navy rescues 1Joat people' 
MANILA Philippines (AP) -The U. S. Navy frigate Rathburne' rescued 39 Vietnamese "boat people,_" most ?f them children, from a small and overcrowded fishmg boat In the South China Sea, a Navy spokesm~n reported yesterday. The 7th Fleet spokesman at the Subic Naval Base north of here said 26 children and 13 adults were aboard the 24~foot boat. It was first spotted by a Navy patrol pl~ne that gujded the frigate to it Saturday, the spokesman said. The latest rescue brought to 691 the number of boat people plucked from the sea since President Carter on July 21 ordered 7th Fleet vessels to be on the lookout for them. All those rescu~d by Navy ships are automatically entitled to resettlement m the United States. 

East Germans cross ~eath strip border' 
NAILA, West Germany (AP) -Eight E_ast G~rmans, including four children, floated throu~h the mght skies over Germany and across the ''deat~ stnp bord~r to the West yesterday in a homemade hot-air balloon sutched together from bits of nylon and bedshc;ets. The group, ~ade up of r_wo families each with two chlidren, e&caped m a 12-m!le, 20-minute flight that ended in this Bavarian town s!x miles from the border. Their leader, airplane mechamc Peter Strelzek, told reporters they ~ad pr~pared for the trip for two months since they failed m their first attempt July 4. Strelzek said they fled for political rea~ons, because "it ~as no longer possible for us to lie to our chlidren and put up w1th the political conditions in East Germany." 

Weather 

Sunny and mild today, with highs in the mid and upper 70s. Clear and not so cool tonight. Lo,w in the low and mid 50s. Tomorrow mostly sunny and a little warmer. High in the upper 70s and low 80s. 
3:30 pm FACULTY COLLOQUIUM "the period of the second commonwealth in the theology of the old testament,'' by prof. joseph blenkinsopp, spon. by nd theo. dept, UBRARY LOUNGE 
4:30 pm MEETING organizational meeting for amnesty international, all students invited, LAFORTUNE BALL ROOM 
6, 8:30, 11 pm FILM, "norma rae," social concerns film series, ENG. AUD. 
7 pm MEETING finance club, open to soph.; junior and senior business majors, 124 HAYES-HEALY 
7 pm MEETING inpirg, open to all interested students, RM 2-d LAFORTUNE 
7 pm MEETING grad. student union representatives and alternates, WILSON COMMONS 
7:30pm FILM "the crime of m. lange," spon. by nd/spdr,WASH. HALL , 
8 pm DRAMATIZATION "is there life after college?" spon by suac, UB. AUD. 
8 pm LECTURE david touia, n.y. detective, CARROLL, SMC 
Monday, September 17, 1979 ~page 2 

Secret data becomes public 

Californian publishes,H-bombplan 
MADISON WIS.. (AP) -A diagram and the complete text of a controversial letter that the government says contains se­cret information about the hy­drogen bomb were published yesterday in a special edition of the Madison Press Connection. 
The letter, written by Charles Hansen, a cqmputer ,Program­mer from Mountain VIew, Cali­fornia, figured in a Saturday night ruling by a federal judge in San Francisco, who issued a teml?orary restraining order barnng the student-run Daily Californian of Berkeley from publishing it. 
As puolished in the Press Connection, Hansen's 18-page letter is about half technical information on what he says is how to build and trigger a hydrogen bomb and half social commentary on the need of the American people to have the information so they will und~r-: stand the weapon's destructive power. 
The letter also complains that I several scientists have released secret data related to the bomb and have not been prosecuted, while free-lance writer Howard Norland, who wrote an as-yet­unpublished article on the bomb, and others working from 
Seniors 
•
to recetve trip refunds 
Seniors wanting to cancel 
those documents have been the tarset of Energy Depanment action. 
U.S. District Judge Roben Schnacke ordered the Daily Californian and two of its editors not to publish or give anyone else material from the letter which the government classified earlier in the week as "secret restricted data" under the Atomic Energy Act of 1854. 
~ EUCHARISTIC miNISTERS 
~ll-an evening of teflectlon rea"ufted 
campus of all those who wish to be 
miniStry 
commissioned or re-commissioned In this mlnlstr~ for llturqles In the halls o-t In SGctedl Heart Church••• Dgte:_1uesday, September ~8-7:30 pm Plqce: Sacred Heart Chute~ -~­
river city records presents on eveni-ng with ... 
9-oe\9.~ 



(lot»\(l~~\~\9.tft.\(l 
. "" ~~\.~'" 

their place on the senior class 
' and special guest to be announced
trip and be refunded their fifty dollars must do so today or I ••••••••••••••••••••• 
tomorrow. 111~,_~-~~~-....~~~~~~~·
Notre Dame students should II go to LaFortune Lobby between 11 and 4 while Saint Mary's students should go to LeMans Lobby between 6 and 9. 
Wednesday, Sept. 19 and Thursday, Sept. 20 are the dates set as1de for seniors wanting to sign up and for other seniors to pay their balance. ., The places and times are the 
same as mentioned above. 
The Observer 
Night Editor: John Smith 
Asst. Night E.aitor: Darren 
~o~n . 
yout Staff: ilary Clement 
'torial Layout: john Smith eatures Layout: Kathy 1 onnel/y 
rts Lay()ut: Mar~ Perry ' ypists: /(jm Convey, MAri-1 n Brotierid, Beth Wil~rti,' 
ry Beth B11titi Early Morning Typist: Mi­cheUe KeHeher Day Editor: &b Bemoshe Copy Editor: Lytlne-A11ne 
Dale~ · Proofreader: MiU Ont~/'rd Ad Layout: Dave Wooti,A11ne p,,~ Photographer: ]olm Macor 
Tilt Obllrver [USPS -121) Is 
published Monday thraugll Frtdly a­capt during eum and VICIIIeft perledt. The Observer Is publlsllld 11r till students of Nltrl D11111 _. Salllt 
Ml~_;.elllge. Sublcrt..-. -.y Ill 
pu llr SZI per ,_ IS• C 
....-ttrl tnm The Observer, j).O. 
a. Netn baiM,IIIdllu -·s..s
ciiSI P11taae Pilei. Nllrl D11111, 111­
dlana-41151. 
The Observer Ia 1 IMIIIIIIr If 1111 Altlclltld Prta. All .......... rights ... 1-.rwd. 
No injunction was issued to the Press Connection, however. 
Mark Sheehan, a Justice Department spokesman in Washington, said the depart­ment had no information on the publication and would have no lffimediate comment. 
Jim Bishop, Energy Depart­ment spokesman, also declined comment. 

sunday september 23rd 8:00pm mORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUm SOUTH BEND 
•TICKETS: J8.50/ J7.50 reserved and ate on sale now at RIVER CITY RECORDS 
on US 31 North ONLY coli 277-4242 for further informotion 
~ ~­

-~~~~~~-­
The Observer 
'Monday, September 17,1979-page3 


Construction continues on the additidn to the Art Gallery.­[Photo by john Macor] 
IMS awards federal grant to ND Snite Museum 
by Paul Mullaney 

The Institute of Museum Ser­vices (IMS) last week awarded a $25,000 federal grant to the Notre Dame Snite Museum of Art, according to Third District Congressman John Brademas. 
The Snite Museum was one of 403 museums selected from more than 1,700 applicants which submitted proposals to the IMS. 
''As of right now, the grant helps us in a three-fold admin­istrative manner," said Associ­ate Professor Dean A. Porter, director of the Notre Dame art gallery. "First of all it allows us to engage a curator for the 'Art of the Americas,' which will be featured in the lower level. 
''Secondly, it allows us to hire an assistant preparator, ~ho 
wdl work under Greg Dunvey. 
Additionally, it 'W61ilpermi~ us 1G 
hire a part-time clerk-tyJ>lSt--a 
position that the addition de­
mands.'' 
Construction on the Snite Mu­seum began last fall, with plans calling for a$3.3 million build­ing which will provide one of the largest exhibition areas on any midwest campus. The new building is being erected adja­cent to the present gallery in O'.Shaughnessy Hall. 
September 7, 1980 has been set as the tentative formal opening of the Snite Museum. Porter, however, is hopeful that his staff will move into the structure this coming February. 
"We're very much on sche­dule," Porter said. "Changes have been very minimal and few. The building is going just beautifully, as is the relatton­ship between the University, the architects, and the contrac­tors. It has been everything we hoped it would be.'' 
The main financing of the building came from a $2 million gift from the late Fred B. Snite 

ROCCOS 

men's and women's 
hafrstyllng 
at comfortable prices 531 t-4. ffilchigan 233-4957 
of Chicago in 1976. The University has also received endowments for the new mu­seum, including a 2250,000 gift from Walter Beardsley of Elk­hart to endow a gallery of Twentieth Century art. 
''But this is the most impor­tant grant we ever received,'' insisted Porter. "By adding onto our staff we increase the small situation to a more com­plex and complete one. Right now we are an art gallery --but with this building, we'll have a first-rate museum. 
''It should bring joy and respect to the University. Also, we'll have a lot of surprises for our visitors.'' 
Containing more than 52,000 square feet, the Snite Museum of Art will include an 8,400 ­square foot gallery for the Art of the Americas, and four galleries measuring 3,000 

... sq11~re feet. The ~ler gaiTeries ~ll inefiide the Uni­versity's collections of Ancient and Medieval art, Renaissance art through the 17th Centruy, art of the 18th and 19th Centuries, and 20th Century works. Also included will be a mu­seum library, a drawing, graph­ics and photography exhibition, storage and study area, and a space for the decorative arts. A 32)-seat auditorium for the fine and performing arts will be suitable for art lectures, cham­ber music. ooetrv recital, and small theatrical productions 

Students mark entrance into nursing profession 
by Margie Brassil 
Saint Mary ,s News Editor 
Forty-three Saint Mary's ours­ing students were capped Sat­urday night in a ceremony signalling their entrance into the nursin~ field. The ceremony was held m the Church of Our Lady of Loretto and included the traditional capping and the lighting of the lamps within the mass. 
Families and friends of the 
students participated in the 
mass, which was concelebrated 
by Fr. James Zatko and Fr. Joseph Keena, and the Saint Mary's Women's Choir sang. Student nurses Catherine V. Shaughnessy and Mary D. Ryan gave readings and Mary 
E. Beckman read the "Student Nurse's Prayer." 
The theme of the ceremony was centered around the dual ideas of recognition of the nurses' offering their skills and dedication to God, and the role each nurse plays in supporting each other. 
Fr. Zatko, in his homily, spoke of Saturday as also being the Feast of Our Lady of Sorrows. Zatko, quoting the Sermon on the Mourit, which was the Gospel reading, said, ''Happy are those who mourn for they shall be comforted. 
Happier still are the nurses for they shall do the comforting. " Mary Martucci, chairman of 
the Nursing Department, spoke of the history of the capping . ceremony at Saint Mary's and 'how each class has added a new 
dimension to the event. 
As each student's name was 
announced she walked up to the 
altar and Martucci placed the 
cap on her head. After all the 
students received their caps, 
the lamps were lighted and the 
students recited, the Night­
ingale Pledge. This pledges 
them to adhere to the ethics and 
standards of their profession. 
Thestudent nurses can now be 
assigned to hospitals in the area 
to begin their clinical work. 
The 43 girls who became stu­
dent nurses are: Elizabeth K. 
Aerts, Mary Bridget Baran, 
Laura Barry, Carol Theresa 
Baugh, Mary Elizabeth Beck-
man, Shelia M. Braun, Deborah 
L. Braunlich, Patricia Ann Brinkman, Alicia Anne Bruns, Nadine B. CHapman, Patricia Jeann_e Ciampa, Mary Eliza­beth Culotta, Jennifer Ann Disabato, Lisa Anne Dudick Anne Marie Elliott, Karen Ma: rie Finkenbinder, ] ean C. Fleming, Mary Elfen Gallagher and Marv Eliabeth Gunn. 
Al!'\o, Barbara Jean Kamin­ski, Mary Ellen Kegelman, Elizabeth Ann Kerrigan, Mar­garet Ellen Kuhn, Susan Laney, 
[continued on page 5] 

~~~~~~~~~~~ 
1978-79 
BLtJE MANTLE DISTRIBUTION 
~-----~~~~~~~~ 
to students abroad last semester, 
Monday, Seot. 17, 11-2pm in -Lemans lobby. Sale of any remaining books ' TUES., Sept.18, 11-2 pm. 
·----------------.. I .......... I
I JUST FOR THE RECORD I 1 ~ 1I ~ In the 100 Center offers I 1 §_ :>i::i )> 1 


I ~ E~~;,;~~~G i! ; ~ ~~ 
I -1-~ / I
wfth ID & coupon RECORDS, TAPES, pa;aphernalia • 1 ~ ~ ::___j 1


L----------------­
----~ 

Is There Life After College? 
... a comedy of campus life. 

Monday September 17th 
8:00 pm Library Auditorium 
Sponsored by the S.U. Academic Commission 
rn 
0 
c 
-1 •t•-..
:I:~ 
aJ 
mz 
zo •
..
ell 

'1 
-o-:t-1 -•
Z!: 
" 
-n
)>:t ..
ZCi --.. 
)>)> 
z -•
..,. ,. 
m 
m 
0 
•" 
--------, ·;.··· 
II 
I 
I
1 I
I 1
I 
I 
·1 
I
1 
I
I 
. 
1 
I 
·I 
I 
I
I 
I 
1 
I , 
I I 

·l 
I 
1
I 
1 1 I
1 

·r" I 
\,IJ 
'C/) 
Q I 
e?.,. 1 
("t) ~ 
~VI ' \.' I 
'.J'W'
v 
::1. ~ I 
~tv ~~I tv ~ ~ :::d I ~ ~ ~ I .I \..11 ~:+: ~ < I 0 ~ &~I 
~ ~· ~ 1 
1~· & ~ ~ I 
1~ 8 _.n 1 
~~ ~ ~ ~·I 
~ rn I
1\0 -~
..--------1 
1 1
~ -,
1[~: I I ~ N~l 
I ~ I
I ~ ~ ~ I I~-~ I
I ~ c I 
I \0 ~ I 
I~ ~ I
I \0 \0 I I I 

i 
I




--------1
I I 
-


Not because it's not worth reading. 
You're wasting your time because you could be reading it three to ten times faster than you are right now. 
That's right -three to ten times faster. With better concentration, understanding, and recall. 
The problem is, most of us haven't learned anything new about reading since we were 10 years old. So we're still stumbling along at a fraction of our real capacity. In fact, most people read so slowly that their brain actually gets bored and distracted between words (no wonder you have trouble C<:lncentrating when you read!) 
The new Evelyn Wood RD2 reading program. 
Over 20 years ago, Evelyn Wood's re­search with natural speed readers discovered reading techniques that could be learned and reading improvement system -designed to be more effective and flexible than ever. With it, you should easily be able to cut your reading and study time by at least two thirds. That means ifyou're now studying 20 hours a week, you'11 save roughly 400 hours -oralmost 17 full 24 hour days -inthis school year alone! 
Spend an hour and check us out. 
We know you ma~have trouble believing what you've just read. That's why our people are on campus now giving free 1 hour demon­strations ofRD2. Ifyou can spare an hour, we'll answer any questions you may have about RD2, and prove that you can unlearn your bad reading habits and start saving two thirds of your study time. We'll even demon­strate some new reading techniques designed to increase your speed immediately, with 
good comprehension. 
usedbyvirtuallyany­?De. Since that pio~~r­lng work, over a mdhon
people -from students 
to presidents -have put the Evelyn Wood method to work for them. 
RD2 is Evelyn Wood's latest, updated 
~------------------------------~ 
Attend a free 1-hour RD2 
demonstration this week·
• ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION CENTER 
MONDAY TUESDAY ­WEDNESDAY 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
Room C~127 

September 17 3:30 & 7:30pm 
3:30 & 7:30 om September 19 3:30 & 7:30pm September 20 3 : 30 & 7: 30 pm 
September 21 3:30 & 7:30pm 
This short demon­
stration could start you 
on your way to better 
grades, more free time, 
and a whole new outlook 
on studying. 
It only takes an 
hour, and it's free. Don't 
miss it. 
· 

~ EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS/A URS COMPANY 
·© 1978 Evelyn Wood Read•ng Dynamtcs. Inc 

will open your eyes. 

,•,•.·····~·-·.·.•.•.•.•.,,-,'.'.·.•.•,•.•.•,•.~.·.·· •'•'•'•'········-·.·~·.,~•J.•.~.•.•,f .•.,fl.f•····· t.,•,•.•.·.···4 f t ... ' a • •• • I r. f. f a W Iff If I • ,. W f. 9 f f a •
f 9 f W ".I W f I 
f • • I • .. 
I 
-/ 

• .............. w .......... .
f. • • a 



panies with combined aaaets -----~---------------------­
exceeding 165 billion including i--Sain-; M , S k , Se • I 
The Observer 
Firefighters battle . California bmsh fires 
(AP)-Firefighters from as far away as the East Coast were flown to California yesterday to aid weary crews battling a series of major brush fires in mountain areas of four Southern California counties. 
Soot and other airborne par­ticulates from the fire were, in 
-areas close to the fire lines, adding to the severe smog problem already present in the Los Angeles air basin. The fires scorched more than 30,000 acres and destroyed at least 25 homes. Eighteen expensive homes in the fashionable Laurel Canyon area in the Hollywood Hills were reduced to ''just shells'' as fires erupted across Los Angeles, threatenin~ more structures and stretchmg city fire crews to the breaking point, officials said. The Hollywood Hills _fire, described as "a major emer­gency," consumedl30 acres in 3 1I 2 hours before nearly 200 fire fighters contains the 60­foot flames with fire retardant drops from two air tankers and four helicopters, said fire in­spector Jim Wells. One uni­dentified fireman was injured. Fire officials said the cause may have been children playing with illegal fireworks. Four youngsters were in custody last night, authorities said. Homes burned in the Lauret· Canyon area included those of blues musician John Mayall, who once released an album called "Blues from Laurel Can­yon," and actress Mackenzie Philli,Ps, who stars in the CBS television series, "One Day at a Time.'' The homes at the dead-end of --Grandview Drive in Laurel Can­yon once offered a full vista of the Los Angeles Basin and on this wind swept day, provided a glimpse of Santa Catalina Is­land, 50 miles to the southwest. But only fingers of chimneys and charred, cl'Wllhled Vfill&-. remained of the burd~d-out homes. ''This whole part of the country is going up in smoke ... We just can't afford another fire," said U.S. For est Service spokesman Gene Knight. "We're bringing teams in from Arizona and New Mexico, 
Film
' ' ' 
(continued from page 7) ~otors the lar~t private
1
mdustrial corporaaon was in­terlocked throuRh &ers and directors with 63 other com-
th.e largest telephone and I railroad compames. ·' 
1

Admittedly the documentary 
I

was one-sided, but the aide 
1

presented is one toO little seen, or ifseen, too easily dismissed. Should profit be "the base line" of corporate dicision making? If not, by whom and how should they be regulated? Does investment diiton the internal economr of Third World countries? If American labor has to compete with d"eloping nations at what level will wages each equilibri­and we're bringing them in 
from the Idaho-Montana area. 
We're flying in military aircraft 
equipped with firefighting 
systems from all over the 
state." 
Crews from Pennsylvania, Maryland and Indiana were being flown to the West Coast, a spokeswoman for the Mary­land Forest Service said. 

Knight said the shortage of , firefighters as well as the hot,: dry Santa Ana winds caused' "an extremely critical situ· ation" and warned that blazee were likely to flare up again and spread quickly. 
While air quality officials said the fires weren't affecting the ozone levels measured as an index of air pollution, the smell of smoke permeated the air miles from fire lines. Soot settled through smog-choked air to cover cars and homes in nearby areas. 
Officials said most of the ftres were burning at levels above the air inversion blanket hold­ing smog in the Los Angeles air basin. The heavier particulate matter, however, does fall into the valleys. 
An air inversion is an atmos­pheric condition in which cool air is trapped by a blanket of warm air, preventing normal circulation of the escape of pollutants. 

All burning permits and remote-area camping permits were cancelled in all four of Southern California's national forests, and all industrial oper-• ations involving welding, blast­ing or the use of heavy equip­ment were banned. 
The state department of for­estry has ofered a $500 reward for the arrest and conviction of the person who started a ftre that raged across 9,000 acres and destroyed an estimated $2 million in property in northern San Diego County Saturday. 
, , , -" ,, ·r--_.... ., ."" ­
~ ~ 
• •• 1 ..urs1ng 
[continued from page 3] 
Mary G. Lauber, Kelly Gerlyn 
Lynch,Jane A. Matz, Madeline 
S. Memers, Sharon Margaret Moore, Heidi Anne Myles, Karen Ann Parrott, Marianne El Podry, Eileen M. Quenn, Cynthia Ann Reiling, Mary Duchesne Ryan, Catherine Vir­ginia Shaughnessy, Laura The­resa Sloan, Mary Elizabeth 
Stoll, Michelle Anne Stuart, Lacy Carter Twining, Teresa Ann W atner, Elizabeth Marie Wilson, Patricia Marie Zidar. 
1Monday, September 17~4'~ -.:P~e IS 
by Ann Hesburgh 

Freshman Year first offered special activities to freshmen in 1972, when Notre Dame went co-educational. Since then the program has grown and now offers activities that take place during both the first and second semesters, according to Freshman Year Dean Dr. Emil Hofman. 
Hofman said his experience as dean has shown that ''we need something different now· that Notre Dame has gone co-educational.'' He would like to see additional entertainment facilities developed, such as an on campus restaurant or theater, so that "the students can see a movie in a better 
environment  other  than  the  
Engineering Auditorium.''  
Hofman  also  said  that  he  

understands that such facilities may have low priority due to the 
P~ O.BoxQ 
Monday, September 17, 1979 -page 6 

ofone evil if we merely replace persuasion and the lasting re­has been slightly more thanllstified force : ·it with another? 
'Terrocisin' sults it produces. It is slow, "little gained" from the sup­The minute we take the Jaw . however, and to many posedly "little ventured."
nother name into our own hands and justify ts more impatient people it may be seen With one point, however, I 
our actions by "our own good ineffective. 
must agree--millions of lives

Jr violence consciences," we have become In truth, though, during the have been lost durin~ those
than force

that which we had sought to almost seven years since the seven years and that ts cause lear Editor: destroy: for if we, by our own Dear Editor: Supreme Court decision on for grief and shame in all those 
good consciences, can justify abortion, the Pro-Life move­who respect human life. If In the article ''Can Pro-lifers doing violence to another (even Re: "Can Pro-Lifers Justify ment has, by non-violent anyone feels this pain more, 
ustify Force?" (Sept. 12, if indirectly as in the bombing Force" (Sept. 12), I would like means, obtained majority wouldn't it be those peoP.Ie who 979), Mr. Flint posed this of an empty abortion clinic), to contest Mr. Flint on two key support in the House of Repre­truly believe that thts killing is uestion: "Is the person who then by what cntenon can we pans of his article: the use of sentatives for a Human Life immoral? Agreed, try to close iews abortion as the unjust­condemn the violence a woman force by the pro-life movement; Amendment to the Constitution down as many abortion clinics 
ied taking of innocent human does to another by her own and the effectiveness of the and is increasin8 the intensity as possible, but now with fe permitted or perhaP.s even good conscience. · prol-life movement up to now. of its ''force'' m influencing molotov cocktails. All human bligated to use force tf by so Further, many Pro-lifers con­First, I believe Mr. Flint has Congressional and state elec­life is sacred, regardless of ding he can decrease the sider abortion a symptom of a mistakenly used the euphem­tions. Considering the influ­age--that's what the Pro-Life umber of abortions per­lar~er problem: the moral and istic term "force" when he ence of politicians in govern­movement is all about. >rmed?'' sptritual decay of western actually means "violence." ment, one could say that there joel Harrington
One first must ask what is society. Trying to rectify such a Legal channels, especially lob­teant by the word "force." situauon by violence is not only bies, have long !rovided 
would like to suggest to thehere are many kinds of hypocritical, .but roughly equ~v­undeniable means o exerting 

Administration administration that there isForce''--political, religious alent to pumng out a fire wtth great "force" in government. 

something inherently wrongkerosene.

nd economic to name a few-­The kind of "force" that Mr. 
with the University and/or itsRobert Bolt confronts the

, ut none of these corresponds Flint speaks of is the commis­to blame policies to cause students', > the description given 10 the dilemma of fighting one evil sion of violent acts which has broadcasts to degenerate intorticle. In fact, the "force" with another in his A Man for com~ to be known coloquially as
r for telecast "offensive discussions of
uggested is violence. The All Season, in the followmg ' 'terrorism. ' ' 
r vulgar topics.'' 
, uestion should be restated as discussion between Thomas A minor problem with this 
James Roemer Possibly the administration is 'Can Pro-Lifers ] ustify More and Roper:Roper--So now form of persuasion, however, is

r Dean of Students too restrictive in its policies, so
, 'iolence?" for the Pro-life you'd give the Devil benefit of that it is soon followed by 
The University of Notre Dame that the students cannot lear a

, tovement does employ all of Law! counter-violence, retaliation. 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 proper level of moderation or

, tle aforementioned forces More--Yes. What would you Mter a series of bombings, 
tolerance.

'Kcept violence. do? Cut a great road through burning and other violent acts, I hereby suggest, therefore,The article appeals to us the law to get after the Devil? can any one honestly believe 
Dear Dean: that you come up with anr:veral times as 'Christians' ' Roper--I'd cut down every law that members of ·either faction acceptable plan of action before et has the apparent incon­in England to do that! would go to such great pains to Some problems concerning 2:00p.m. tomorrow. After all, Iruity to ask whether, in some More--(Roused and excited] make sure "that no one is your interpretation of some don't want to rush you.

ases, violence can't be just­Oh? Andwhen the last law was hurt?'' And when people are 
problems concerning the Sincerely,

ied by its ends. Perhaps I've down, a.nd the Devzl turned hurt and eventually killed, does WSND radio program ''Radio Dennis D. McClure een misled, but I've always round on you--where would you any one think that we'll have Free Notre Dame'' have recent­Dean ofAdministration een taught that in Christian htde, Roper, the laws all being moved any closer to a solution ly come to my attention. I The Mudshark Republic 
11eology the end never justifies flat? than the IRA has in Northern 1e means. How can we Ireland? .ossibly justify the destruction joseph Willke Arguing _ that pro-
lifers are not risking anything, else. It is not only his personalMr. Flint seems to almost ·warmth and serenity which advocate violence as a means of attracts one to Pope John Paul. 
_tension reliever for a good part ND should sJX>nsor
proving de?ication t~ a cause: The Pope is the true vicar of
of the community, the quality of:Sex' broadcast the broadcast only reflected the The fact ts, non-viOlence 1s Christ on earth, the shepherd of 
much more demanding since all souls. His responsibility for ~nterests of the people listen­
mg. there are no quick rewards, the Church is a great burden, a except of course, "the added Chicago trip joyful burden, which calls for all 
Yet, it appears that anyone
reflects who was offended by this boon of finding a group of the affection and support that 
people which one can safely and the faithful can show.
particular show must have been 
publicly villify and annoy with­We should be moved to greetInterested enough to keep their
1stener 's interest out feeling guilt." (Does Mr. to greet Pope the Pope enthusiastically in
radiostuned in long enough to be 
Flint truly believe that this is Chicago to show that we lovesufficiently offended, especially such a central motivating force him and that we pray for hisconsidering the fact that the
)ear Editor: 
in the fight for integrity and intentions for the Church.
program was only intended for 
sanctity of life itself?) Dear Editor: There will certainly be manyNotre Dame students about
We regret to hear of the In this type of volatile issue, individuals driving and some
Notre Dame life. Perhaps intnfavorable reaction to the the temptation is to resort to With only three weeks left taking public transportation tothe future, those at Notre Dame 'Sex at Notre Dame" broad­
violence. Mr. Flint seems to be until Pope ] ohn Paul' II arrives Chicago on October 5, but theoffended by the 'reality of sex'
ast on WSND, and its subse­under the impression that to in Chicago, I still haven't hear University whould encourage
will find something better to do
luent demise. It is our conten­use violence is the more cour­·ofany University-organized trip students by providing buses
with their time.

ton that the subject matter of 
ageous and difficult path. to greet the Holy Father. and information about where tohe program, albeit perverted Fortunately, the Pro Life move­It is, important to remember stay overnight, where the Pope.nd depraved, is a necessary Harvey Newquist ment has painstakingly avoided why Pope John Paul should be will be, etc.
•utlet for the frustrated mem­joe Kenney this temptation and instead greeted enthusiastically.-in the 
,ers of this Victorian commun­Bzll Leary opted for the more difficult United States and anywhere john L'Ecuyer ry. Kim Emigh 
Christian method of non-violent 

Sexual activity of any kind at hi~ University is rare, timid, tnd just plain lousy. Being that he show is the highest rated 
Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau
·adio broadcast on campus is 

~vidence enough that there is a 1ery real problem o expression, :=specially in sexual terms, at lofotre Dame. This is made >bvious by the banality of the )hone-in conv~rsations. The ;how was malicious only in that t brought to the forefront houghts, feelings, and desires hat we all experience in the ime-honored Notre Dame education.' 
Listeners had full knowledge ,f the show's title and the mplications that such a subject :ould cause. Since discussion ,f sex seems to be a healthy 


Me? NOTATAU.

I fXA'.I7 KNaiJ.
IN7HE 
OH, RiCK., I KNEW 711/S tvA5
IAIHB?£ 
LIVING 
(j(}fNG 70 HAVE 70 H.4PP!3N
/SSHE? 
ROOM. 
saJNCR. OR !ATCR.. rM 50 
ASHAMW.. j
I I 


admirnstration of either. institution. 
Editorial Board 

The news is reported as_ accurat~ly and as objectively as posstble. E?tt<;>rt<!ls Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Features Editor. . . K. Connelly represent the opimon of a maJont~ of Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilsori Photo Editor . . Doug Chnstian 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentanes, Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales ~ons Editor ........._... Mark Perry opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ...... M. Onufrak 
_The Observer_ 
. Business Manager ..... Steve Odland The Observer is an independem their authors. Column space ts avatl­Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewis Prod~,tction Manager .... Tim Sullivan

tewspaper published by students of able to all members of rhe communiry, News Editor ............ Mark Rust he Umversity of Notre Dame and and rhe free expression of varying News Editor .......... .Mike Shields Advertising Mlrnager .... : ..Bob Rl,ld\· 
)aim Mary's College. It docs not opinions on campus, through lerrers, is Saim Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddv Controller .. : .. ; • , . K~vm Maruon Citculat~a M~ager.....Greg Hedges.
1ecessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor.:.;-..: ..... ~--'MSsil'! 
-.., •.. 

Features 
Monday, Septemb~ 17, 1979 ~ page i 

In~ Case You Haven't Heard 
Fr. Bill Toohey-



In you cursory scan of the news these past dals, you may have missed items o momentous signifi­cance. 
1. The Lone Ranger needs our help. In a recent court ruling on the rights to the Lone Ranger character, actor Clayton Moore was ordered not to wear the fictional hero's mask in public appearances. The Wrather Corp., which brought the legal action and is filming a multimillton-dollar Lone Ranger movie, said that Moore is too old to look like the youthful hero and that his public appearances harm the company's efforts to pro­mote the movie. 
Well, I've got news for them. They picked on the wrong Kemo Sabe. Good citizens everywhere are up in arms. From Maine to California, fans are volunteering for an "economic posse" to ride to the rescue of Clayton Moore. They are calling for a boycott of the new Lone Ranger movie so long as Moore is ordered by the courts not to identify himself as ''the daring and resourceful masked rider of the plains.'' 
"We're mad as hell," says Joe Martelle, leader of the petition drive. 
"I've been up 18 hours a day taking phone calls from people wanting to help out. We've even got a couple of Christian groups from Tulsa and Nashville who've contacted us." 
If you missed signing up at the Save-The-Lone-Ranger booth at Activities Night, you may exercise your God-given, patriotic duty by contacting your local Ombudsperson. 
2. 
Speaking of patriotism, two of our natton's finest protectors were in the news lately. Sut>er-Christian, Anita Bryant, manifestmg her fmest self-righteousness, has joined the ranks of our country's direct-mail hucksters, launching a campaign to finance an escalated battle against the millions of "perverts" she sees everywhere seducing little children, Anita informs us that our contribu­tions to her cause are ''tax-deductible gifts of 1ove." And, in case you missed it, Phyllis Schlafly finally clarified for the whole world why she is such a harsh critic of women's lib: ''It supports affirmative action to get women in jobs in place of men, and I think that ts an attack on the family.'' 

3. 
Timothy Leary, who came to campus last year and conned Student Government out ofa fat check for two 


hours of incoherent rambling, is in the news again. He still has legal problems, like being busted the other day for alleged possession of cocaine. But the big news is his resurfacing as a stand-up comic. Tim is packing them in wtth a $5 cover and two-drink minimum at a Los Angeles watering­hole. In his act he takes on "]ane Fonda,]ack Nicholson, Woody Allen, irate blacks, the 'Ayatollah Ralph Nader,' Mexican-Americans without a sense of humor and all people who expect to be rewarded for their handicaps." Now's the time to invite him back to the campus; he expects to be working Las Vegas in six months, and then we'll never get him at his present bargain rates. 
4. A book called Campus Shock is making some waves currently. Written by Lansing Lamont, it is a reporter's collection of horrors con­tamed in interviews conducted in the Ivy League schools, plus Michigan, Stanford, Berkeley and Chicago. According to Time, it speaks of college life as a round of rape and robbery and rising racial distrust, or crowding and cheating and grade grubbing and sexual anxiety, of pulverizmg noise from stereos and fear of future unem~loyinent. The quotes and statistics are often devastating. In one year 4,500 books ere stolen from the Berkeley library. When caught, college thieves and cheaters tended to say, "I didn't do anything that everyone else isn't domg." Faculties were not much help eithe.r. Many, Lamont reveals, objected to taking a moral stand for fear of "sounding like scolds" to their students. As a University of Chicago professor confided, "We lack the language to teach right and wrong." No further .comment 
needed. 
5. Finally, just when you may have been thinking there was no way to top the super-psych moment of the green football jerseys at the start of the Southern Cal game of two years ago, word has reached us that negotia­tions are underway to arrange for Pope ] ohn Paul II to helicopter into the center of the stadium just before kickoffof the Georgia Tech game. As the luck of the Insh would have it, that is precisely the day the Holy Father will be traveling this way, enroute from Chicago to Washington, 
D.C. Stay glued to the Observer for final details. 
!The Company's Men

St. Francis' Gift of Love 
If you are a returning_ student ,of either Notre Dame or Samt Marys, you may recall seeing or visiting a sale at Christmas last year sponsored by the St. Francis Shoppes on the first floor of the Library and at LaFortune Student Center. But even if you don't fall into that category, 
you  shouldn't  miss  the  local  St.  
Francis Shoppe.  
The  St.  Francis shoppes  are  an  

ecumenical non-profit marketing program based in the United States and created to help third world artisans earn some much-needed revenue by providi_ng adeq~ate sale_s outlets for their high quality handi­crafts. 
One such shop has been in operation in South Bend for two years, and has recently moved to the Notre Dame campus. It was begun by Fr. Ken Malley who, over the past several years has spent many months in Mexico working with the missions reaching out to Impoverished com­munities there. 
It was from this experience that the idea of establishing an outlet for the -handicrafts of the Third World orig­inated: Fr. Ken began to bring back various articles and sell them in the South Bend commun!ty. People responded favorably and the project grew from there. 
Once located in a one-room mobile compartment behind Hank's Friendly Super Market on U.S. 31, the St. Francis Shoppe is now located in a three-room mobile home parked in a lot just off the road between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. It's a short walk from either campus. 
Each room of the shop is filled with the folk art of thiro/ Third W ?rid countries, includmg Mexico, Pakistan, Nigeria, Israel, Tanzania, Kenya, and some regions of the United States. Many of the items have a special and perso~.al story behind them. Each article from Bangladesh that is sold, for example, saves 16 people from starvation. 
The St. Francis Shoppes encourage the production of handicrafts that reflect the skills and life of the artisan, or the artistic tradition of the area or country. 
Paul Lauer and Tim Beaty 

Stace_v Hennesse_v 
"They own the land. They own 
the plant. They own the machinery, and they own the jobs. All we have is our labor which they may buy zf the pnce is right. '' 
In a small auditorium in a small town in Massachusetts, workers from the local factory and towns­people meet to decide· their fate. Ingersoll-Rand, a multinational cor­poration recently acquired their plant and though it has always turned a profit, has issued them an ultimatum: 
the town is to build them a new factory and the workers to accept a pay cut or the factory will be moved to South Carolina. "Half a loaf is better than none, but is a quarter or an eighth?" There are limits, aren't there? 
In Brazil, a three year old girl is chronically undernourished. Even if she survives, her brain will be permanently damaged. The diet-of her family is primarily black beans, 


As a rule, the St. Francis Shoppes try to deal with the craftsmen or reliable liason persons in order to avoid possible exploitation by mid­dlemen. In some cases, especially in Mexico, the Shoppes can negotiate directly with the artisan or his cooperative. There is substantial evidence from overseas indicating .that the payment to the producers does, in fact, represent a significant 
earmng. 

Though the St. Francis Shoppes have a relatively small impact on the worldwide cycle of poverty, the sale of these handicrafts has become an important means of insuring a more dignified--hopeful survival for the artists involved. 
Do visit the shop, .,if'not to buy, then to browse. It's open six days a week, Monday through Saturday from 10-6 and there's always some­one there willing to share a story or two with you. For those with a special interest in the Third World, Fr. Ken is looking for volunteers to work either in the Shoppe or at the Christmas sale at La Fortune and in the Library this year. Furthermore, if you know of any poor or Third World communities whtch produce salable handicrafts that might interest Fr. Ken, please contact him at the St. Francis Shoppe. 
St. Francis Shoppe really is an amazing place. Before leaving, I picked up a copy of the ''Eight Steps of Chanty," the last of which is particularly applicable: 
Lastly, the eighth, and the most meriton'ous of all, is to anticipate charity, by preventing poverty; namely, to assist the reduced feUow­man, either by a conszderable gift, or a loan ofmoney, or by teaching him a trade, or by putting him in the way of business, so that he may earn an honest livttlihood; and not be forced to the dreadful alternatives ofbolding out his hand for chanty. To this Scn'pture alludes when it says: And if ihy brother be waxen poor, and follen in decay with thee, then thou shalt relieve him; yea, though he be a stranger or a sojourner; that he may live with thee. This is the highest step and the summit of charity's golden ladder. '' 
but local agricultural lands have been acquired by foreign multinationals who have switched proc!uction from the native foodstuff to more profit­able cash crops for export. 
Controlling Interst, The World of Multinational Corporations, the first in a series offilms on Social Concerns sponsored by the Student Govern­ment and the Center for Experiential Learning, raises very basic questions about the effects of multinational co!poratio_ns on the ~orld's peorl~. 
One ought not to ftnd it surprising that a corporation has the power to impoverish a region through trans­forming its agriculture or to bring: about the collapse of a small town tf we consider the enormous economic and political power in their hands. Almost a thiro of the top 90 nations and corporations mea~ured byannual product are corporations. The 500 
Jargest industrial corporations in the 
U. S. control 65% of sales, 75% of profits, and 75% of industr_ial e~­·ployment. Corporate eco~omt~ acttv­
l
•ty has been concentratmg 10 the hands of a very few people. General 
(continued on page J) 
( 
•. 

--~~~------------------------------------~--­
r. (·);;·~ 
~ ~ 
-The Observer I' Monday, September 17, 1979 -page 8 
[continued from page 1) 

.conference consisted of 92 na­tions which .b., ·:! no formal alliance, but whlch seem to identify in ideology with Rus­sian and Cuban causes. 
"I am profoundly concerned with the conduct of the 92 nations at the conference," Kissinger said. "The whole idea of the only moderate
• • • Cites 
nation -Egypt -being put on probation solely because they are interested in achieving peace in the Middle East... '' Kissinger trailed off. 
Just that afternoon, Kis­singer said, he had spoken with 
FIGHT INFLATION 
10% Discount: 
on all shoe repairs zipper repairs 
and leather repairs 

We catty many styles of boots 
also, Converse tennis shoes 
Tony's Shoe Shop 


University of Notre Dame 283-1144 
Hours: ffion-Frf 8-5, Sat 8~1 
_ 


senior newsmen covering the 
conference. He rerorted that 
the newsmen were ' shocked at 
the uninterrupted assault on 
American mottves and values,'' 
made by the ''non · 
aligned" nations during the 
Cuban conference. 
''I must say that it is strange for a group of non-aligned nations to be so totally directed. 
Just by accident we (the U.S.) must do something nght,'' he said. "We must strengthen the moderate elements in the world and penalize those elements who assault the U.S. in every international forum. This kind of activity cannot go on. 
''Our national masoch,ism must not take the form of assuming that, when criticized, we must have done something wrong," he concluded. 
''Alone among the nations of the world we can say that the kind of future we are ~oing to have depends essenttally on ourselves," Kissinger said, em­phasizing that the time is not too late to act. 
Much of what Kissinger had to say on the SALT treaty was a reiteration of a positton he expressed to the Senate Fo­retgn Affairs Committee in late August. At that time, Kissin­ger said that the U.S. should link ratification of the treaty to Soviet conduct around the world. 
Kissinger's lecture represen­ted the first of the Eldon Lundquist series at IUSB. The lecture series is named after a former state senator and presi­dent of IUSB. 
[continued from page 1) 
"It seems to me that the 
minimum condition that should 
be met for inclusion in peace 
talks should be that one party 
should recognize the existence 
of the other party with whom it 
is supr,osed to be negotiating 
peace, ' he stated. 
The PLO has traditionally sworn not to recognize the state of Ismel. 
''Until the PLO recognizes Israel, I see no point in inclu­ding them in peace negotia­tions," he added. 
Kissinger was also careful to make the distinction between so-called "moderate" Arab states and "radical" Arab states. "Any progress that is made in this area should be made . . . with the moderate Arabs·. We should work with those Arab states who have befriended us, and not those sta~~s who continually castigate us. 
''The issue is with whom can we best negotiate,'' he said. After these negotiations are completed, "a framework in which other states may partici­pate in negotations can be drawn up." 
Regarding SALT Kissinger 

China Gardens Restaurant 
-presents-Grand Opening of the Blue Hawaian Lounge 
-Happy Hour 4-7 -Live entertainment & dancing -All exotic Polinessian Drinks & traditional cocktails 112 price -Dinners feature Chinese & Cantonese Cuisine 
900 Ireland-1 block west of Sco~le Mall 291-7373 

The reflecting pool lives up to it's name as it uses the Memorial Library as a target. [Photo by john Macor] 
• • • Soviet presence 
said he does not believe that "strategic arms limitation can be separated from a nation's conduct internationally.'' 
''It makes no sense to tald about the limitation of arms without putting restraints on international conduct. It seems to me that the conduct of the Soviet Union, with respect to Cuba is unacceptable to the United States." He cited over 50,000 Cuban troops abroad and the erection of a Soviet naval base in Cuba as examples of Soviet conduct abroad. 
When questioned about the CIA, Kissmger noted this intel­ligence organization has been "weakened" in recent years. ''The result of this has been unfortunate for the U.'s. in so far as it has led to a predisposi­tion by the Administration to play tt safe m matters of Intelligence. ' ' 
He added that the Carter Administration has also been hindered in the field of intelli­gence "by its own preconcep­tions.'' 
As for his political future, Kissinger made no comments on rumours that he plans to run for the U.S. Senate. He said he intends to support the Republi­can presidential nominee in 1980. 
SM C students 
to elect 
Assembly 
Saint Mary's Student Assem­bly elections are being held today. Students can vote in LeMans Lobby between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Voting tables will also be on both sides of the cafeteria between 5 and 6. 
, , , Turmoil 
[continued from page 1] 
radical than many of the people who ~rought him into power in April1978 in a coup that toppled Pres1d~ot Mohamme~ Daou~. 
Radio Kabul said the Afghan Revoluuonary Councd met In Kabul )'esterday and considered Taraki's resignation. for four hours, finally r~lieving him. of all of his posts and duues. 
The diplomauc sources 10 Kabul, who asked not t~ be identified, said troops in the m_ile nigh capital were qUickly mobilized when gunfire began Fnday. . . 
It was the first report of widespread gunfire in the cap1t3;l smce Aug. 5, when loyal troops •. backed by tanks and helicopter gunships, put down a muu~y by the crack 444 Commando Regiment at Kabul's Bala Hissar fort. 

need printing ina hurry? 100 -11 x 17 posters only $10.00 203 N. Main South Bend 289-6977 the wiz of the printing biz! 


The Observer -SportsBoard 
, 
National League
SE Louisiana 19, Tennessee St. 16 
S. Mississippi 24, Cincinnati 6 
East 
ln.-Chattanooga 24, Louisiana Tech 7 
W L Pet. ,GB

Football 
VNI 17, Richmond 7 

VIrginia Tech 41, Appalachian St. 32 
Pittsburgh 88 58 .603 ,­

Montreal 87 57 .604 -

American Conflrence East W L T Pet. Miami 3 0 0 1.000 New England 2 1 0 .667 Buffalo 1 2 0 .333  Wake Forest 22, Georgia 21 William & Mary 28, Colgate 15 MIDWEST Akron 15, Kent St. 13 Illinois St. 35, Ft. Hays St. 7 Indiana 44, Vanderbilt 13 Indiana S. 17, W. Illinois 14 Iowa St. 38, Bowling Green 10  St. Louis Philadelphia Chicago New York Cincinnati Houston Los AngeleS  78 76 74 56 85 82 71  68 72 73 89 Wast 64 66 78  .534 ,.514 .503 .386 .570 .554 .4n  ·110 13 14Y2 ~1V2 -2Y2 14  [continued from page 12) · his offense for failing to put a point on the board in the second half. · "We didn't make , any ad­ 'poor fieid -j)<?sicion, and-Notre Dame. just Jtot J·uiced. f''We never felt ominant. We never felt confonable offen-. sively. I'm very disappointed because I thought we were  
N.Y. Jets  1  2  o .333  Michigan St. 41, Oregon 17  san Francisco  66  84  .440  19Y2  justments,"  he  said.  "Our  going to win."  
Baltimore 0 3 0 .000 Central Cleveland 3 0 0 1.()()()' Pittsburgh 3 0 0 1.000 Houston 2 1 0 .667 Cincinnati 0 3 0 .000 Wllf San Diego 3 0 0 1.000 Denver 2 1 0 .667 Dansas City 1 2 0 .333 Oakland 1 2 0 .333 Seattle 1 2 0 .333 National Conference  Missouri 14, Illinois 6 Nebraska 35, Utah St. 14 N. Dakota 31, Sacramento St. 0 N. Illinois 21, E. Tennessee St. 14 Northwestern 27, Wyoming 22 Notre Dame 12, Michigan 10 Ohio U. 20, E. Michigan 7 Ohio St. 21, Minesota 17 Oklahoma 21 , Iowa 6 Oklahoma St. 16, Wichita St. 6 Toledo 31, Ball St. 14 Tulsa 28, SW Louisiana 20 Wisconsin 38, Air Force 0  San Diego 62 87 .416 23 Atlanta 59 88 .401 25 Saturday's Games Pittsburgh 5, New York 4 Cincinnati 2, Los Angeles 1 San Grimcisco 5, Houston 3 Montreal 2·1.tSt. Louis 1-4, 1st Game 11 innings Philadelphia 8, Chicago 1 Atlanta 6, San Diego 1 Sunday's Games . New York 3, Pittsburgh 0 ; St. Louis 4-1, Montreal 3-5, 2nd Game 10  offense is weak. The defense has got to have some help. In the third quarter we just had [continued from page 12] Mte.r Crable tackled tailback  Unfortunately for Schem­bechler, the Irish defense thought likewise. ... Irish would rather We WID the JarDe than have them lose tt."  
Dallas Philadelphia Washington St. Louis N.Y.Giants Tampa Bay Chicago Green Bay Minnesota Detroit Atlanta Los Angeles San Francisco New Orleans  East 3 0 0 2 1 0 1 1 0 1 2 0 0 2 0 Cantril 3 0 0 2 1 0 1 2 0 1 2 0 0 3 0 West 2 1 0 2 1 0 0 3 0 0 3 0  1.000 .667 .500 .333 .000 1.00C .667 .333 .333 .000 .667 .667 .000 .000  SOUTHWEST Arkansas 36, Colorado St. 3 Baylor 17, Texas A&M 7 Houston 14, Florida 10 Rice 21, Tulane 17 Southern Meth. 27, Texas Christian 7 Texas Tech 17, New Mexico 7 FAR WEST California 10, Arizona 7 Fresno St. 22, Montana St. 20 Louisiana St. 44, Colorado 0 Nev.-Las Vegas 26, Nevada-Reno 21 New Mexico St. 14, Texas-EI Paso 13 Pacific U. 31, Cal Poly-SLO 17 Southern Cal 42, Oregon St. 5 Stanford 45, San Jose St. 29 UCLA 31, Purdue 21  innings Philadelphia 4, Chicago 3 Cincinnati 2, Los Angeles 0 San Grancisco 2, Houston 1 Only Games scheduled Mnday's Games Pittsburgh (D. Robinson 7-6) at Montreal (Rogers 13-9), (n) Philadelphia (Carlton 15-11) at St. Louis (B. Forsch 9-11) (n) Houston (J. Niekro 18-10) at San Diego (Omchinko 5-10), (n) Atlanta (McWilliams 2-2) at Los Angeles (Hough 5-5), (n) Cincinnati (LaCoss 14-6) at San Francisco (Blue 12-13), (n) Only games scheduled  Stan Edwards for a five-yard loss a1t the ND 25-yard line, Michigan called time out to set up the possible winning field goal. Tne Irish set up to try and block it. ''We sent in everyone except one," Crable said, ."'and tried to open a hole over the; center. He stay~d down and I JUSt .went ~p on hts ba~k., The ball hit me m the le~ htp. . . , Crable s block of Vtrgil s at~empted 42-yarder. gave the  IRISH N01ES: With his 118­yard performance, Vagas Fer­guson passed Neil Worden to move into fourth place on Notre Dame's all-time rushing list with 2153 yards. Ferguson,who was named by ABC as Notre Dame's most valuable '~layer, needs 529 yards to tie· erome Heavens for first place. erguson now has seven 100­yard games in regular season play ... Chuck Male's four field goals set a single game record  
Sunday's Gamel Cleveland 13; Baltimore 10 Denver 20, Atlanta 17, OT New York Jets 31, Detroit 10 New England 20, Cincinnati 14 Philadelphia 26, New Orleans 14  Washington 41, Utah 7 Washington St. 34, Montana 14 Baseball  Collage Baseball Notre Dame 11-8, Tri-State Q-1  Insh the ball, and Tun Koegel fell on the ball to run out the fin,~ second. . It (the blocked kick) was a fitting climax,'' Devine said. ''I  for Notre Dame. Male held the old record of three with several other players. Dave Reeve holds the single-season record of 12.  

Houston 20, Kansas City 6 Miami 27, Minnesota 12 Tampa Bay 21, Green Bay 10 San Diego 27, Buffalo 19 Dallas 24, Chicago 20 Seattle 27, Oakland 10 Pittsburgh 24, St. Louis 21 Los Angeles 27, San Francisco 24 
Monday's Game New York Giants at Washington, (N) 
Sunday, Sept. 23 Atlanta at Detroit Baltimore at Pittsburgh Green Bay at Minnesota Houston at Cincinnati New York Jets at Buffalo San Diego at New England Washington at St. Louis Oakland at Kansas City Chicago at Miami Los Angeles at Tampa Bay New Orleans at San Francisco Philadelphia at New York Giants Seattle at Denver 
Monday, Sept. 24 ::Jallas at Cleveland, (n) 
EAST Army 26, Connecticut 10 Lehigh 44, Slippery Rock 9 New Hampshire 26, Holy Cross 17 Penn St. 45, Rutgers 10 Pittsburgh 24, Kansas 0 Syracuse 24, W. Virginia 14 Temple 43, Drake 21 Tennessee 28, Boston College 16 
SOUTH Auburn 26, Kansas St. 18 Duke 28, E. Carolina 14 Florida St. 31, Arizona St. 3 Lamar 58, W. Kentucky 27 Maryland 19, Clemson 0 McNeese St. 21, W. Texas St. 0 Miami, Fla. 24, Louisville 12 Miami, Ohio 15, Kentucky 14 Mississippi 38, Memphis St. 34 Navy 26, Citadel 7 
N. Carolina St. 31, Virginia 27 NE Louisiana 18, Arkansas St. 17 NW Louisiana 27, Stephen F. Austin 21 Presbyterian 17, Furman 10 
S. Carolina 24, W. Michigan 7 American League East 
w  L  Pet.  OB  
Baltimore  97  50  '  .660  - 
Milwaukee  87  62  '.584  11  
Boston  82  64  .562  14Yz  
New York  80  66  .548  11)1/z  
Detroit  80  69  .537,  18  
Cleveland  74  74  .500 , 23Yz  
Toronto  49  99  .331  48Yz  
West  
California  81  68  .544  - 
Kansas City 78  71  .523  3  
Minnesota  n  72  .517  4  
Texas  74  76  .493  7Yz  
Chicago  65  83  .439  15'12  
Seattle  63  87  420  18Yz  
Oakland  52  98  347  29Yr  

Saturday's Games Detroit 4-1, New York3-7 Toronto 5, Cleveland 2 Chicago 3, Oakland 0 Boston 10, Baltimore 2 Milwaukee 3, California 2 Kansas City 5, Seattle 4, 11 Innings Minnesota 11, Texas 4 Late game not Included 
Sunday's Games Toronto 3, Cleveland 2 Baltimore 13, Boston 3 Detroit 8, New York 4, 12 Innings Chicago 5, Oakland 2 Milwaukee 2, California 1 Seattle 6, Kansas .City 3 Minnesota 6, Texas 2 · 

Monday's Games Boston (Ral ney 6-5 and Eckersley 16-10) at Toronto (Edge 3-2 and Freisleben 2-2), 2, (T-N) ­
New York (Clay 1-7 and Beattie 3-5) at Cleveland (Waits 14-13 and Splllner 8-4), 2, (t-n) 
Baltimore (McGregor 11-5( at Detroit (Wil­cox 12-7), (n) Minnesota (Hartzell6-3) at Chicago (Kravec 12-13), (n) 
California (Knapp 3-4) at Kansas City (Leonard 12-10), (n) Texas (Comer 15-10) at Oakland (Morgan 2-8), (n) 
Mllwakee (Caldwell15-6) at Seattle (Honey­cutt 1D-11), (n) 
$2.00 discount off season pass or weekday lift ticket. 
~ 
·~ "' SKI CLOSE 
'C 
~ c: "' TO CAMPUS i(ij ONLY 12 MILES FROM SOUTH BEN 
a: 0 -downhill skiing and cross-country 
.s 
'C 
-quad chairlift 
V> 
"' 
-ski school-GLM American racing 
~ 
-night skiing--all slopes illuminated -lodge with cafeteria, game room, bar 
Attention students: one t1me offer only $60. Llm.1ted pass good mon -thurs. Students only Deadline for purchase: Sept. 30th. IUtvatltalltu &ki fRt&nrt 
R. No. 1 Box 434, Main St. Buchanan, MI 49107 (616) 695~3847 
Volleyball 
SMC Volleyball Saint Mary'1> lost to Vincennes University 7-15, 11-15, 3-15 
Tennis 
St. Mary's8, lndl1n1 State 1 

. Singles No. 1-Patsy Coash (SMC) def. Angle Acton, 
6-0,6-0. 
No. 2--Maureen Fitzgerald (SMC) def. Cathy Stevens, 6-2, 6-1. No. 3-Karen Smith (SMC) def. Carmie Mason, 6-4, 6-4. No. 4-Carmel Manza (SMC) def. Georgia Tipton, 6-3, 6-1. Maureen O'Brien (SMC) def. Laurie Glass, 6-2, 6-4. 
Doubles 
No. 1-Acton-Giass (ISU) def. Terri Bracken­Jan Dvonch, 2-6, 7-5, 6-4. No.. 2-Gaynor McCown-Nelia Domlncl (SMC) def. Mason·Barnhorst, 7-6, 6-4. No. 3-Janlce Sacchari-Lina Radler (SMC) def. Stevens-Grieseg, 6-2, 6-1. 
Soccer 
Dayton 3, Notre Dame 2 (2 OT) Xavier 2, Notre Dame 0 
LAST CHANCE 
audlo visual equipment bulb close out sale 


Educacional Technology Services-Call6423 
....................... 
•. It's Hetel If
-
. 

: Student Union : 
l RECORD STORE ! 
I., Located In the..Ticket • : • OHice, 2nd floot • : LaFo~une • 
e·Open 12-4 monday thru : e (Orders limited to Billboards e 
e .Top 50 the FIRST week.) e 
....................... 
, 
••Open House•• 
Wednesday , Sept. 19th 3:00pm 'till 5:00pm 

Free Hair Consultation by· Award-Wmning Gordon Nelson 


Regis Hairstylists Uni·versity Park Mall Phone 272-1168 

The Observer · Monday, September 17, 1979-pagelO 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli 


ACROSS 30 Statute like some 3a Indian fish 34 Aleutian 5 Thin rock island 10 Shutter 35 Word by leaf scrooge 14 Olive genus 36 Second part 15 Code or of quotation 
colony 41 Insect 16 Ve'A 42 Jai­17 Start of 43 Annoys 
quotation 44 Officers: 20 Destiny abbr. 21 Playing 45 Spanish 
card fruit drink 22 Hinder by 46 Fly 
law 48 Minor 23 -Fein quarrel 24 Barbarian 49 Pshaw! 

26 Importance 50 Bridal path 29 Interdicts 53 Dreadful 
Friday's Results 


54 Ocean: abbr. 24 Pedro's cat 57 End of quo-25 Aware of tation 26 Flower part 
61 Donna or 27 English Robert river 62 Verdun 28 Civil dis-
fighter orders 63 Ornamental 29 State of 
fabric Brazil 64 Advantage 30 End before 65 Carries completion 66 Went by 31 Barrels 
quickly 32 Nearest things 
DOWN 37 Licked up 1 Cereal dish 38 English 2 Oil: comb. essayist 
form 39 -ads 3 Cozy home 40 Bakery 4 Sound of stock 
derision 46 Paul's 5 Rejects birthplace 6 Singer 47 Phase 
Reddy 48 Arctic 7 Singer vehicles Williams 49 Firearm 8 Musical 50 Hairstyle notes 51 Angered 
9 Ivy Leaguer 52 Do farm 10 Original work 11 Fluff 53 --your­12 Tropical self 
dog 54 Resound 13 Nestling 55 High point sound 56 Think over 18 Patriot 58 Choose 
of '76 59 Animal 19 Pauses sound 23 Ooze 60 Sprite 
Dr. Christ to lecture tomorrow 

Dr. Daryl Dean Christ, assoc iate professor of pharmacology at the University of Arkansas College of Medicine, will lec­ture on the ''Effect of Catechol­amines on Ganglionic Trans­mission,'' tomorrow afternoon at 4:30 p.m. in room 278 of the Galvin Life Sciences building. 
Refreshments will be served at 4:15p.m. 
The public is welcome. 
... Plans 
[continued from page 5] 

various dorms on campus, who work to provide additional ac­tivities for the freshmen. 
''The types of activities planned depends upon the character of the Council,'' said Hofman. The, FAC activities will be anoounced later. Freshman Year offers activ­
ities  for  two  reasons,  said  
Hofman.  ''Primarily,  these  
activities  provide  freshmen  

with the opportunity to meet other freshmen in addition to those already met in dorms and classes." Second, these parties provide freshmen with a non­drinking social option. "I have nothing against drinking,'' said Hofman, "as long as it is not abused or forced upon people.'' 
IT'S ~11HE LIGHT DARK OF IT! 




It's Pabst Night at GOOse's Tuesday -9/18/79 9 to 12 
Pabst Special Dark on tap  $1.75 per pitcher  
Pabst Extra Light  \  < I f  .  1 I'  
Pabst Blue Ribbon  2 bottles for $~. 00  ,:  
,I  
Pabst Special Dark  'I  
-,  .  

I 

Free hot dogs and pdzes for those with the "Blue's"-------~~)-~· 
I' 
.. 
Bruins 
use the as 
,.

The Observer -Sports .
' 

The Boilermakers, fifth in the countty1 were a favorite over ua..A at the
shock Coliseum Saturday mpt, but the Bruir)e were cleltly the better team in a 31·21 ~ The temperature at 'ld time was 93 degrees ~d p:be.Purdue thick smo4.. was reportetf to\ be thej worst /fiere in 25 years.• 1be weather didn't bother us and we didn't take UCLA J!ghdy, '' said lkrtiiUUl, consi· 

Classifieds 
otices 
Social Concerns Film Series, Sun. Sept. 16 through Fri. Sept. 21. No charge. 
USED BOOK SHOP. OPEN WED., SAT., SUN. 9-7. RALPH CASPERSON 

' 

ost&Found 
Lost: Little Caesar Is Missing!! Zahm's new plastic man was stolen Monday night. The purloined article Is of great

a1 rsonally and monetarily. lnfor­eadlng to Its location will be . It was a gift, and we want It 
! The Boyz 8897 
I lost amaroon wallet In the South Dining Hall at Tues. dinner. Contains every­thing that I have: Reward. 
Rod 6719 

Lost: Gold Cross pen with name engraved, Thursday morning. Sentimen­tal value. Reward. Call 7854. 
For Rent 
I 
Furnished country house, private, ten minutes to campus, Ideal for two to six people. 277-3604, 288-ll955 
Room for rent. 436 Allen. $80/month. Utilities Included. On bus route. Call Carl 232-8594 or 283-3881. 
Wanted 
Need ride to U. of I. (Champaign)September 21. Will share driving/ex­penses. Mike 6758 or 6853 
Immediate openings for part time and full time waitresses. Afternoon and evening shifts. No experience needed. but we prefer 21-year-olds. Apply In person, 52129 u.S. 31 North betWeen 9 and 5. Gropp's Famous Fish of Stroh. 
Wanted. students to unload trucks, part-time, to be on call. Apply daytime at l<lng's Cellar In Roseland. 
t need a ride to Milwaukee. Friday 9/21. 1 Call Beth, SMC 4991 
Wanted: dorm refrigerator-gold/beige car.petlng for sale, $20 2106 
Colonial Caterers at Century Center needs part time bartenders. busboys, cashiers, walters, waitresses and kitchen personnel. Breakfast and Luncheon helpneeded most. Apply In kitchen across from entrance 4 In rear of Century Center. 
FORTRAN PROGRAMMER/ANALYST Participate· In the development and writing of applications programs In the field of data base photo typesetting. The position requires at least 2 years FORTRAN experience with skills at dealing with data management problems. Any PDP-11 or composition experience is helpful. Salary Is open. Send resume to: PO Box 570, South Bend, IN 46624. 
Boar's Head Restaurant Is now hiring full and part time busboys, dish washers, cocktail waitresses and hostesses. Apply in person Monday through Friday be­tween 2 and 4:30. Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Need ride to Miami of Ohio on Sept. 21st. Please call Jenny 41-5154. 
ForSaie 
Moped -Need of Repair Highest Bid Notre Dame Credit Union -4454 

75 Mere Bobcat Wagon, P/S, New steel radials, new brakes, Mech sound. Very good transportation, 81,000 miles. Call Jack 287-2723 
Fcir sale, Large quantltiy of used golf balls. 4/$1. Cll Dave, 3414. · 
USC & So. Carolina tix for sale. Best offer!! Cindy5742 
SILK SCREEN T-SHIRTS* HIGH PROFITS COMPLETE INSTRUCTIONS, SEND $5 TO: A.B.M., BOX 335, EAST RUTHERFORD, NEW JERSEY, 07073 
REFUND ON FIRST ORDER OF ANY SUPPLIES 
Win afree trip for two to the N.D./Miaml game in TOKYO, Japan. A fifteen day vacation to the Orient for only $5.00. For ticket Info call Georgette 287-9628. Drawing Sept. 20, 1979. 
Tickets 
Wanted 1 GA or Student ticket for GA Tech. Call MB 8060 or Dan 277-Q333. 

$$$$ Need 2-4 GA tickets to any home game-especially MSU. Call Pat at 1651. 
Need 4 USC GA tickets. Will beat any offer, money no object. Call Jack 8700 
WANTED URGENTLY -2 tickets to the Notre Dame-Southern Cal game October 20. Call after 6:00p.m. 615 790-0368. 
Mucho Dinero for two GA USC tix-Call Marc 8378 
Will pay top $ for student or GA USC tix--call Bill 3549 
Money no Dlllld· Mead 4 GA tlckltl for Gaorala Tach or USC. Clll4140 [SMC) 
1am going to Stomp on every squirrel I see unless 1 get 8 Georgia Tech GA tickets -and soon! (Sick, huh?) Call Crash at 8627 
Desired: Any 1 USC ticket. Call Joe at 8192. 
Desperately need one USC ticket. Will pay ANY price. Call Paul 8451. 
I'll pay gii4JII money for 2 GA to USC and/or 1 tlcto MSU. Please help. Tony· 1247 
Desperately need USC tickets. Will pay your price. Call Lance 1027. 
Someone please sell me 3 Georgia Tech GA's. Jenny 6968. 
"Need 2 So. Cai-N.D. tlx. Rich Uncle pays. Close to 50 yard. Call 6424." 
Need several GA tickets for home games ·except USC and South Carolina. Call 
Susan 4-1-4868 
Will trade 4 GA Michigan State tix for 2 Southern Cal GA tlx. Call:232-6667 
Have to have 4 GA tickets for Michigan St. Call Rick 8698 
Desperate! Need two GA Michigan State tickets! Call Jane 6372. 
Desperately need four to six GA tickets for Michigan State, willing to pay$$$$$. Parents will disown me If I don't get them. Call1002 or 1736. 
Money no object for 2 GA USC tlx. Call Larry at 232-0384 
Need Michigan State tlx. Big Bucks! Call Stan 1878. 
Need 4 GA's for MSU. Will pay big bucks. Call Jeff 8764. 
Desperately need 5GA tlx to Tennessee! Call John at 3656. 
Need Southern Cal tickets. Will pay top dollar. Call Joe after 10. 233-6024. 
Will pay $60 for two adjacent GA USC tickets. Call Mark 1478. 
Will trade 4 GA's to Georgia Tech for 4 GA's to MSU. Call Jeff 8764. 
Need 2 GA tickets for USC game. Call Bill 8288. 
Need 1 Georgia Tech ticket. Will pay!! phone 8634 
Need any amount of GA tix for MSU or USC. Match ANY offer! 1845--Jeff 
I will do anything for 6 to 10 student and/or GA tix for Mich. St. and/or USC. Please call Steve-8696. Soon! 
Michigan State tickets needed! S.A. or 
G.A. Call Paul: 1402. 
Need 2-4 GA tickets for any home game-Dan 277-1318. 
Desperately need 2GA tix to MSU game. Will pay good $. Call 4-4385. 

1 Need GA's and student tlx to all home games. Call Beth 4+5710 or Kate 4+5220 
Mafia Family members coming in for Georgia Tech game. Make an offer-1 can't refuse. Need 2 GA tlx. Call Little John at 1947, 3087 or 1003 
Willing to Qlve Almost Anything for 3 GA tlx to Michigan State game and any other home games. Call 5770 or 4571 (SMC) 
Need one ticket to Tenn. Desperately! ! Call Mary Ann 4-1-4347 
Need 4 tlx to USC. Please call Beth 4-1-4298 
Desperately need 2GA tlx for MSU. Call Jake 3180. 
Need 2 student or GA tlx for Georgia Tech. Will pay $. Tom 3362. 
Need 2 South Carolina tlx. Will pay decent$$$! Call Rick 277-1598. 
Desperately need GA's for Mich. St. or Georgia Tech. Call Tom 1~10 
Desperately need 2 USC or So. Carolina tickets. Cathy 4789. 
Wanted: 1D-12 GA tickets to Georgia Tech or Navy games. Can trade 4 GA South Carolina tickets. Call Eric 1384 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. ; 

Will pay anything for student or GA S.C. tickets. Den 1606 
Need 2or 4 Michigan State tickets. Call Laura 1674 
Need GA tickets for Southern Cal game. Will pay big bucks. Call Jane 283-8012. 
Desperately need 2-4 GA tickets to Georgia Tech game. Call Dick 1224 
HELP! Need student tickets to GeorgiaTech. Beth 4-4991 
Desperately need 5 GA NAVY tickets. Please call Jenny 4­1-5154 
GA tickets needed for any home game. Call Dan, Leo or Gerry 3589 
adly need at least 6 MSU GA tix. Will be shipped to Iran If I don't get them. Call 8648 ask for Pat . 
Desperately need 6 USC GA tlx. Call Frank at 3092 
Desperately need 12 GA tickets to Georgia Tech. Call Eric 1384 
There once was a game in South Bend, Some friends to see it I 'II send, But tickets I still need, This advice you should heed, They'll pay handsomely just to attend. 
Call Mark 8160--MSU GA 
Need 2 GA Purdue or MSU tix. Carl 2~2-8!194' 283-3881. 
Personals 
Joe "Angel-face" Hennessey, There are spys everywhere! 
A day without Gooneys is like a day" without sunshine! 
Campus Kennedy '80 group forming. Call Paul at 8451 now. 
·Seamus Gooney, where are you?? 
MargA, 
Last Tuesday night In B-llne my retarded roommate foolishly took advan­tage of my Infatuation with you and your 
I.D. card. Obviously I was left quite embarassed and speechless. Now that I have regained my composure I would like 
to apollgize to you In parson.  How about  
it?  
Mike Galvin, Where ya been? Has It communicating through the column? Actually, 1 can Bashful come to personal 't do that  

either-l'm just subbing today for Pauler (her ears are so cold!!) Catch ya later, Kim 
Joel H. I love you!! Why don't you call? -Laura 
Joe Philbin will be celebrating his birthday all this week-he needs seven days to collect Birthday Kisses from all the women he knows. Get In line now, ladles!!! 
Joe, You'll still let me borrow your thea notes, won't you? 
WASTE I BIRDDOG I PETE 
This Is too B-czar and must stop. Delmonte will be canning us soon. Something must be done before we're lost In the oh-zone again! 
Yowsah 

Hey! Blonde Morrlessey freshman from 
Huntington Beach-1 think you're kinda 
cute. t.•·· . ·1 It's as easy 
as (HINT) 1 2 3. 
-Greta Garbanzo Patricia Curtin-
Happy 21st!! Have loads of fun collecting B-day kisses (but remember­you're still setting a moral example for your freshman!) We'll be there to clean ~~he pieces. Enjoy 
Mary Beth Sterling has a birthday this Friday.. Look out ND!! 
The New Adventures Of aBoring Parson 
He was born to apoor rural farmer, and so, learned to toll with his hands and back, growing soybeans with sweat and pain. He longed for a better life, so he worked diligently In school, and eventu­ally earned a scholarship In a good' college, where he became All-American and abusiness major. He secured agood job, took a lovely wife, and settled down to a hagpy, peaceful life. Suddenly, an atomic last vaporized him and his world. 
The End 
Scoop Sullivan and Ryan VeriBerkmoes are pleased to announce the formation of: 
Academic Probation Enterprllll An exclusive new club! Lifetime mem­berships (for one semester) Include a choice of two expulsion plans-the quick easy way, and the hard long way!! For more Info, call 3079 or 1771. If you qualify, go ape! 
HI Tracy and Kathy,
My humblest apologies for not visiting your room yet. You are perfectly justified if you feel rejected and want to whip me and walk on me with spiked heels. 
Your Grovelling Servant, 
Scoop 
Lost, Dave Toma, "Super Cop" can be found at Carroll Hall (SMC)7:00 Sept. 17. No admission 
1 will negotiate an entire padded seat student basketball ticket and cash for 4 USC F.B. tlx. Call Donna 6782. 
Butcher? Indian Chief? Find out how others are paddling their own careers-­College to Career Days, SMC. Sept. 23-27. 
The results of arecent (survey) prove that Howard guys are NOT gay.Thanks guys! (and even you·, Tex)The bloody splintered "C"s. · 
Stormln Normln, Happy 21st B&D 
StormIn, Will you live through such a day or Infamy? ex-section mate 
Gooneys are the greatest!! 
ATTENTION Willing to orientate two DARK freshman football players "visiting from Cali­fornia," contact two blonde sophs 6239 
STEVE BRUEMMER Lunch was ecstatic. You should have stayed for dessert! Love, The Blonde Beauties 
'(E. 


' 


Monday, September 17, 1979-page 12

~rts 
Male boots Blue 
Irish open with another thriller 
by Mar_. Perry Male's first two three-poin­connected on his third field 
Sports Editor ters, both set up by Micfii~an goal. 
fumbles, were the only high­After an exchange of inter­
Notre Dame Head Coach Dan lights for Notre Dame in the ceptions left Michigan at their Devine called Saturday's win first half, as the Wolverine own two-yard line, linebacker over Michigan "the greatest offense rolled to 212 total yards Bob Crable stopped Wolverine thrill of my life.'' But for the against a young Irish defense ru~ners three straight t~es Irish coach, games like the 1979 and went mto the locker room mside the five. Bryan VIrgil season opener are starting to with a 10-6 lead. who had connected on a 30-yard become a way of life. The second half was a totally field goal in the first half for 
The Irish, who fmished last different story, as ND limited Michigan, punted the ball season with thrillers against Michigan to 96 total yards, set straight up, and his 24-yarder Southern California and Hou­up the winning score, and put the Irish in field goal range. ston, came through with blocked a field goal attempt by Three more carries by Fergu­
another historical effort, as Michigan with six seconds left son set up Male's 39-yard their defense and the magic leg in the game. winner with 3:46 left in the of Chuck Male produced a 12-10 ''Our defense rose to the third quarter. 
win over the Wolverines before occasion," Devine noted. "We Michigan was stifled for most 10~, 111 fans at Michigan Stadi­just asked our players to give us of the fourth quarter, but 
um in Ann Arbor. a little more and dig down second-string quarterback]ohn "I'm very proud of our deep, and we asked Our Lady to Wangler put the Wolverines 
football team," Devine said. help us." within scoring range with three "This is a team win, and they Aided by the return of Scott straight pass completions with weren't to be denied. It was an Zettek and Mark Czaja, the less than two minutes left in the Vagas Ferguson, 118 , 
emotional game, the type of defense stifled the Michigan game. battles for more yardage in tbe grasp of linebacker Ben game that you can remember blocking that was so effective in [continued on page 9] Needam. [Photo by Doug Christian] the rest of your life.'' the first half. 
The game was especially After the defense stopped the memorable for Male, wbo was Wolverines on four pfays to awarded the game ball for his start the second half, Rusty Returns from injury four field goals (40, 44, 22, and Lisch and company put together 39 yards)" and his booming their longest drive of the game, kickoffs which kept Michigan in taking the ball down to the 
Zettek helps ND defensive growth
the hoi(' for much of the game. Michigan five-yard line. "The first kick is the most Halfback Vagas Ferguson, a game and that we were phomore defensive stalwartsimportant," Male commented, who was the Irish workhorse by Paul Mullaney without our original starting Steve Cichy and Bob Crable.
''because it gets you back in the with 118 yards on 3~ carries, led Assistant sports Editor guards (Ted Horansky and Tim Cichy, strong safety, led the groove. The rest were easy. the way with six straight carries Huffman). squad with 13 tackles and broke You just have to think about to put the ball on the Michigan Scott Zettek had no idea prior "Our defense rose to the"' UJ? a key Michigan pass attempt what do in · . " nine. Four later Male to Saturday's game at Michigan occasion. As far as I'm ~Ith only two minutes remain­
Stadium whether or not he 
concerned, it was a fitting mg.
would see action against the 
climax having the defense actu­Crable, in addition to blocking
sixth-ranked Wolverines. 
ally came up with the final big UM's last-ditch field goal
"I didn't know if I was going 
play (blocked field goal). attempt, took part in 12 tackles,
to play," he smiled following 
"We changed up our defens.e including three for negative
Notre Dame's 12-10 stifling ot 
a little," Devine added. "We yardage. Among his key hits
Michigan. ''They just told me 
put on a little more pressure in was a blitzing stop of Michi­
to be ready. I could have 
the second half, did a little gan's Stan Edwards for a
played ten downs, could've 
more blitzing, and contained five-yard loss one play prior to
played all of them, or could've 
much better. We didn't really the blocked field goal attempt. 
played none." 
make that many changes. We Despite Notre Dame's super­
Fortunately for the Irish of 
just played better.'' ior defensive effort, Michigan
coach Dan Devine, Zettek was 
While many Irish defenders coach Bo Schembechler faulted 
ready. Knee surgery in the 
could be singled out for their

spring forced Zettek to miss all [continued on page 9]
performances, Zettek's show­
of Notre Dame's pre-season fall 
mg was the most inspiring for M ND
contact drills. But it didn't take 
Notre Dame fans. Although Total first downs 16 12
long for the Elk Grove Village, 
officially credited with only four Rushing att./yds. 45-172 43-114
Ill., native to warm up for the 
tackles (one sack for a nine-yard Yards passing 134 65season. 
loss), Zettek was in on many Passes att.-comp.-int. 24-12-1 12-5-2
''Zettek and (Mark) Czaja _got 
0
more key defensive plays. Total yards 306 179
their group work in the first 
"I'm playing with a big brace Punts-Avg. 7-29.7 7-37.7
half;" Devme said. "That was 
on my knee," said Zettek, who Penalties-yds. 4-28 3-45
their pre-season. It took them a 
has been moved from end to Fumbles-lost 2-2 3-1
little while to get the hang of 
tackle in. order to eliminatethings.'' 
significant lateral movement. Michigan 3 7 0 0 10
But once they got the hang of 
"But you don't think about it Notre Dame 3 3 6 0 12
things, and after the entire Irish 
when you're playing a team like 
defense appeared to be in 
Michigan.'' Mlch.--Virgil, 30 yd. field goal~3.
mid-season form, Notre Dame's 
"Hey, Notre Dame doesn't NO--Male, 40 yd. field goal, 3-3.
point-prevention squad was de­
like being an underdog," he Mlch.--Edwards, 1 yd. run, Virgil kick, 1(}-3.
termined to turn the Maize and 
continued. "It takes the pres­ND.--Male, 44 yd. field goal, 6-10.
Blue into black and blue. 
sure off of you and puts more NO-Male, 22 yd. field goal, !HO.
After giving up 212 total 
pressure on them, but pressure ND.-Male, 39 yd. field goal, 12-10.
yards and a 10-6 lead to 


doesn't bother Notre Dame."

Michigan, in the first two Edward J. MeAvoy of the National Transportation Safety 
made by Munson while he was flying the aircraft. 
stanzas, the Irish defense stif­

Board told the New York Times of his findings, which he will 
fined in the final 30 minutes, include in a report to the board "in about two weeks." The 
holding the Wolverines score­newspaper reponed in a from page story in its Monday 
less on 94 yards. In fact, the editions. 
Wolverines were held without MeAvoy said the probable cause of the accident was 
any second-half first downs "improper use of throttles and flight controls" by Munson, 
until the fourth quarter. whose S1.4 million Cessna Citation crashed and burned as he 
"I was concerned with their attempted to land the jet at Akron-Canton Airport on Aug. 2. 
quarterback option," ] oe Yon­McAvoy told the Times he made it clear in his report that 
to, Notre Dame defensive coor­Munson was at fault and that he was surprised the All-Star 
dinator, said. "In the first half ballplayer had received a jet pilot license from the Federal 
our back side wasn't closing. Aviation Administration in just 14 months. He noted that 
You've got to cut 'em off all Munson had flown just 41 hours in the cockpit of his jet when 
over.'' it crashed and only six of those hours were as pilot in 
Devine added that it seemed command. 
to be just a matter of time until 
the lnsh defense became accus­
tomed to defensing the option 
offense of quarterback B. J. 

Notre Dame's junior varsity football team lost its first game 
]V team .falls to Wisconsin 
Dickey. of the 1979 season yesterday afternoon at Cartier Field, 
''When we went in at half­falling 10-6 to Wisconsin. Two Harry Oliver field goals 
time," he said, "we felt really provided the only scoring_ for the Irish. Phil Carter, a 
good about the score. Even freshman running back from Tacoma, Wash., was the 
though we were behind, we offensive star with 130 yards on 24 carries. 
knew that Michigan had played, 




