
------------------------~----~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
• • Board of Trustees -page 8 

VOL. XVI, NO. 126 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
WEDNESDAY, MAY 2, 1979 
Assailant attacks woman in O'Shaughnessy lounge 
by Mike Shields News Editor 
An unidentified assailant attacked a Notre Dame woman student ab~ut 6:30 p.m. Sunday while she was resting in the third floor ladies lounge in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
The victim was napping on a couch in the building when the assailant entered the lounge and tried to pin her to the couch. Her screams attracted a 
'A white male between 18 and 25 
years of age, 5' 6" tall, weighing 
about 130 pounds, with light brown hair and long sideburns.' 
male student studying nearby, who was unable to stop the fleeing suspect. 
Director of Security Joseph Wall described the suspect as a white male between 18 and 25 years of age, 5'6" tall, weigh­mg about 130 pounds, w1th light brown ha1r and long sideburns. He was wearing faded blue jeans, a red flannel shirt and a denim jacket. Both witnesses said they felt the man was a student. 
The victim was treated at the Student Health Center for cuts and bruises, and was released. 
Wall said he felt the incident may be related to a similar inCident last Tuesday in Hayes­Healey Hall, in which a woman student was attacked in a ladies lounge. 
"We think it may have been the same guy,'' Wall said. 
The Samt Joseph County Sheriff Department and the South Bend Police have been notified of the incidents, Wall added. 

Radioactive water spills inside nuclear power plant 
ZION, Ill (AP) -About 700 information oHtcer, said neither gallons of radioactive water area residt'lll" nor workers were spilled inside a Commonwealth endangered in Monday's inci­Edison Co. nuclear power plant dent, although the clothing of and some radioactive gas was one Edison employee was con­released into the atmosphere, taminated. the Nuclear Regulatory Com­The spilled water remained mission said ye~terday. inside th<:-building and was 
A commission spokesman pumped to the plant's radioac­said there was no danger from tive water treatment svsrem, he the release at the Zion plant's said. · Unit I auxiliary building. 
Jan "lrasma, NRC public [continued on page 12) 




Gas ration plan has dim future 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Prht­dent Carter's standby plan for gasoline rationing was ~cnt limping toward an uncertain fate on the House floor yester­day by a deeply divided House Commerce Committee. 
The panel barely agreed, on a 21-20 vote, to have the full House decide the issue. The committee, spurning Carter's nationally televised appeal for its support, decided instead to send the plan to the House floor without a recommendation. 
The ''no-recommendation'' vote came after supporters of the plan failed for the second time within a week to win committee approval of it. A motion seeking that endorse-

Forgham slays Iranian leader 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -One of Iran's top 
Moslem leaders closely associated with the new 
Islamic republic of .-\yatollah Ruholla Khomeini 
was assassinated yesterday as he left a dinner 
party in Tehran, Torfeh Hospital officials said. 
They reported Ayatollah Morteia Motahari 
was struck in the head by a single bullet and 
died in the hospital early Wednesday. 
Sources said an anonymous caller to the 
morning newspaper Ayendegan asserted the 
little-known Forghan group was responsible for 
the murder. 
That is the same group that said its members killed Gen. Mohammad Yali Gharani on April 
23. Gharani was the former armed forces chief of staff of Khomeini's revolutionary regime, which deposed the monarcy of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi in February. 
The caller said Motahri was head of the secret Islamic Revolutionary Council set up by Kl,omcini as the supreme power in Iran on Feb .. 11.Thecouncil, among its other duties, supervist:s the revolutonary courts that have sent 164 persons to their deaths before firing 
squads since the revolution. 
Motahri was a professor of theology at Tehran University and was elderly, but his exact age was not immediately known. 
He was not among the best known of some 100 Ayatollahs -holy men -who head the Shiite Moslem hierarchy in Iran. Religious sources said he was active in the struggle against the shah and was considered among the 20 who hold the most influence in Khomeini' s councils. 
Motahari was shot in east Tehran near Jaleh Square, a landmark area in the bloody year-long riots against the monarchy. 
In September, royal troops shot about 120 demonstrators to death in the square, sparking more violence that eventually led to the monarch's self-exile in January and the over­throw the following month of the appointed government he left behind. 
A hospital official, referring to Motahari's death, saidthe Ayatollah had been "martyred." 
According to various sources, revolutionary security officials pressing their search for the killers of Gen. Gharam have been able to determine the identities of several suspected Forghan members, but the names were not released. 
The name Forghan can mean "holy book" or "distinction between truth and falsehood.1" 
ment died yesterday on a 21-21 
tie VOtf' 
Later in the day, an effort was launched in the same committee to block another Carter energy initiative, the administration's plan to lift controls from domestic crude oil prices beginning June 1. But a vote on that issue was delayed until tomorrow. 
Carter's standby rationing proposal, which would allocate gasoline during severe short­ages solely on the basis of registered automobiles, faces "a hard fight" on the floor, acknowledged Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich., House manager of the measure. 
"I think it has a good chance," Dingell said after yesterday's committee aciton. Then he added: ''I'm not saying I think we can get it through, I'm just saying I think there's a chance." 
Dingell said the measure will see floor action within the next few days. The plan will die unless both chambers approve it by May 12. A 1975 law required submission of a standby rationing plan to Con­gress. 
During a nationally televised news conference Monday, Carter had called his proposal "imperative" for the nation to deal with any future fuel short­age emergency similar to the shortage forced by the 1973-74 Arab oil embargo. 
Last Wednesday, the House Commerce Committee tenta­tively voted down the :-ationing proposal by a 22-20 margin. But adm10istration allies, buoyed by approval of the proposal one day later by the Senate Energy Committee, had hoped to turn the vote around. 
Despite Carter's direct appeal and a heavy White House lobbying campaign, the White House was only able to to switch one vote in the inter­vening week -that of Rep. Timothy E. Wirth, D-Colo. 

Wirth said he first voted against the plan because he felt it was unfair to Western states with their large driving dis­tances. But Wmh said a later promise by the White House to make extra quantities of gaso­line available to Western and tourist-oriented states "caused me to change my vote.'' 
However, that promise alone wasn't enough for Rep. Henry 
E. Waxman, D-Calif., whose vote the administration had also hoped to switch. 
"I just don't think (the plan) is fair," Waxman said. But he 
parted with other opponents in agreeing to support a motion to send the plan to the floor without a recommendation. 
Waxman's vote enabled the rationing plan to go to the floor by the slimmest of margins. 
Rep. Clarence Brown, R-Oh10, noting earlier claims by House leaders that the ration­ing measure would get a floor vote regardless of what the panel d1d, claimed "this exe­cise through which we have gone is rather pointless.'' 
Meanwhile, a group of com­mittee liberals led by Rep. Toby Moffett, D-Conn, attempted Tuesday to put the Commerce Committee on record in opposi­
tion  to  Carter's  oil-decontrol  
decision.  
Moffett moved  to  attach  to  

another bill a measure that would • prohibit Carter from lifting oil price controls at least until October 1980. 
Rep. Harley Staggers, D-W.Va., committee cha1rman, adjourned the panel until 10 
a.m. Wednesday after Moffett offered his motion. Moffett said he's still about three votes short of victory on the panel but "we hope to get more votes overnight.' 


News in brief 
Nurse spies in hospital, reports abuse of patients 
CHATTAHOOCHEE, Fla. (AP)--A nurse assigned to spy on employees at a state mental hospital here says elderly patients were tied in their chairs for up to s~ hours at a time. Dr. John A wad, district administrator for the Florida Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services, said yesterday that five hospital employees were suspended and others may be disciplined because of the reoprt by Hattie King Thomas, a state public heatlh nurse based in. Jacksonville. A wad said hospital employees were unaware of Ms. Thomas' assignment. Awad said the five suspended employees worked in the hospital's geriatrics unit. Their suspensions win cemain in effect pending further investiga­tion. Awad said. 

~'bite aclmits to shooting in opening day oftrial 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP)--Former Supervisor Dan White's lawyer admitted before a jury yesterday that White fired the shots that killed Mayor George Mascone and Supervisor Harvey Milk last November. Then he added White's defense: "mental illness cracked this man." It was the day for openin~ arguments and the first testimony in White's murder trtal, and the persecutor said he would seek a convicton that could bring the death penalty. He claimed White shot both men in a way that seemed like administering a "coup de grace." Defense lawyer Douglas Schmidt conceded that "90 seconds from the time he (White) shot the mayor, he shot Milk." But, he added, White was suffering from ''profound depression '' White, a 32-year-old former paratrooper, fireman and policeman, is accused of killing Moscone and Milk in their Cay Hali offices on Nov. 27. 
Bodies of Guyana victims receive bleak homecoming 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP)--The bodies of 150 Peoples TemJ,>le members who followed the Rev. Jim Jones to South Amenca arrived in California yesterday to a bfeak homecoming. Only two relatives were at the Oakland Army Base when three 44-foot moving vans pulled up to the mortuary at dawn, bearing the bodies in stack'ed ~tee! coffins. Base officials would not let the pair watch the unloading. They also turned away three ministers who hoped to say a prayer over the bodies. ·'I just wanted to see how it is, how they bring 'ein in. I've dealt with the worst already," said Fred Lewis, a San Francisco butcher who lost his wife, sister and seven children in the Guyana mass murder-suicide. Lewis has brought four family members back already, but none of his other five children was on board the three vans. 

Weather 
Partly cloudy, breezy and warmer today. Chance of afternoon showers. Htghs in the mid to upper 60s. Showers, and possibly a few thunderstorms at mght and tomorrow. Lows tonight in the upper 40s to low ~Os. Highs tomorrow in the mid to upper 60s. 


CamP-us 

3:30pm--SEMINAR, ''a brief overview of the d.o.e. oilcaps energy alternatives," walter schimmel, sandia lab., 303 ENGR. BLDG. 
4 pm --MEETING, snea meeting & buffet, 147 MADELEVA 
SMC· 

4:3.0 pm --SEMINAR, "ethics & morality," panel of army
officers discussing moral issues in the service, 219 ROTC 
BLDG. 5:15pm--FASTER'S MASS, WALSH CHAPEL 
6:30pm--MEETING, sailing club, 204 O'SHAG 

7:30 pm --TALK, "affirmative action at notre dame," sister john miriam jones, s.c., HOWARD CHAPEL 
8 pm --TALK, "ari?erican catholic social ethics," dr. charles curran, catholic umv., ARCHITECTURE AUD. 
8:15pm-~ RECITAL, dennis bamber, saxophone, LIB. AUD. 
Wednesday, May 2, 1979 -page 2 
Garcia -wins Danforth a-ward 



A University of Notre Dame senior, Xavier Anger Garcia, 
has been awarded a Danforth Graduate Fellowship for up to 
four years of advanced study in preparation for a career in 
teaching. More than 3,000 


eObserver. 
Night Editor: Beth Huffman Asst. Night Editor: Marga­ret Kruse Copy Readers: Mike Onufrak, Time joyce (both who left with a good-bye) Layout Staff: No Show!!! Features Layout: Chns Stewart Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Nancy Moms, Betsy Masana, Katie Brehl Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Keith Melar­agno Ad Design: David Wood, Flo 0 'Connell Photographer: Bob Gill Thanks to Informations Services on Public Rela­tions and Development. 

graduate and under~raduate students across the natwn com­
peted for the 100 fellowships awarded this year. 
Garcia, the son of Mrs. Estela Garcia, 129 Haverhill 
Drive, San Antonio, Tex., ma­jored in speech and drama at 
Notre Dame and appeared in several campus production~ 
including "Indians" and "Man for all Seasons." He is also a 
member of the Chapel Choir. His . graduate studies, at a 
university to be selected, will focus on literary aspects of 
drama. 


Erratum 
An article in yesterday's Observer incorrectly reported that letters and phone calls to the Campbell's and Libby's companies for them to state their position on the current dispute with migrant laborers were ignored unul last week 
In fact,-the companies res­ponded with brief comments, but did not clarify their position completely until last week. 

Jim Ladner Mike Boz1k 
Thursday Charles DeFazio Harvey Newquist 
5/3 

ATTENTION FACULTY 
and 

GRADUATING STUDENTS 
Measurements for 
CAPS GOWNS and HOODS 

FINAL DAY 
Thursday May 3 
9:30-11:30 9:00 -11:00 
Jim Kotorac
Friday Show starts at 10:30 Bill Kostelnik 
5/4 

Jim Speier & Company· 9:00-11:00 Saturday 
BRIAN MCHALE
515 

JIM MURRAY 
MIKE KAMMERDIENER 11:00 -close 
DEBBIE SHEMANCIK SCOTT O'HARA 

~--­


The Observer 
, 

! 
CAPE TOWN, South Africa (AP) -A special commission yesterday recommended that descriminatory labor laws be abolished so blacks may have the same pay, trainin& and union membership as whites,. a move sure to spark an uproar m this white-dominated nation. 
The suggestions were seen as an effort to fill skilled and semi-skilled positions for which there are not enough whites and in part to assuage forei~n criticism of the nation's racial policies. 
The recommendations from the 2-year-old government-ap­pointed panel would erode the cornerstone of the white minor­
ity-ruled  nation's  30-year-old  
laws  of  apartheid  that  even  
mandate  separate  bathrooms  

and cafeterias at work. 
Parliament scheduled im­mediate debate on the sugges­tions and Fanie Borha, minister of labor and mines, was to give the government's response to­day. The government said it would issue a white paper next month outlining new legislation baserd on the report. 
Western governments have lon~ criticized South African raCial policies. The study said: "it would be naive to deny the pact or ignore the effect of International attempts to influ­ence labor and other policies in South Africa.'' 
The white minority protected its 4.4 million members with employment laws at the ex­pense of the nation's other 26.6 million residents, most of them blacks, who earn perhaps five to nine times less than whites. 
But a number of multi­national firms in South Africa ­especially those from the United States -already have opened non-segregated eating places, worked toward a policy of equal pay for equal work and tecitly recognized black unions, even though they were techni­cally illegal. 
The government's racial laws also keep blacks from voting and relegate them to certain neighborhoods and restaurants. 
In the mining industry, one of the country's big foreign income earners, some mining 
~ 

SU conducts survey 
Today and tomorrow, a sur­vey will be conducted by the Student Union to find out student response concerning a proposal being presented by the Student Union. What the 
Baggage applications 
available 

Students or organizations 
who wish to provide baggage 
truck service from Notre Dame 
this spring, or to Notre Dame in 
the fall, must fill out and return 
a merchandising application to 
the Student Union Services 
Commission bY. Friday !'1ay 4. 
Preference will be ~1ven ·to 
organizations over individuals. 
Applications may be picked. 
up at the Student Un10n or 
Student Activities Offices. 
Approval to operate a baggage 
truck from Notre Dame does not 
automatically grant approval to 
operate a return truck in the 
fall. 
Sr. Jones to speak 

Sr. John Miriam Jones, S.C., assistant Provost, will give a talk at 7:30 p.m. tonight in Howard hall. She will speak on ''Affirmative Action at Notre Dame.'' 
proposal entails is establishing a program ofvideo tape viewing in La Fortune and making this available to the students. 
If the proposal is approved, the Student~.Union would pur­chase a video tape recorder and set it up in a room in La Fortune. Movies and other programs would be shown at certain scheduled times. 
The survey will be handed out at the dming halls during dinner. 
Curran to discuss social ethics 
Fr. Charles E. Curran, teach­er, theolo~ian and author, will discuss 'American Catholic Social Ethics: 1900-1960" at a Notre Dame lecture today. The 8 p.m. talk in the Architecture Building Auditorium is spon­sored by the Center for the Study of American Catholicism and 1s open to the public. 
A priest of the diocese of Rochester, N.Y., Father Curran received doctorate de&rees in theology at the Gregonan Uni­versity and the Academia Al­fonsiana in Rome and serves as a professor of moral theology at Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C. He was the first recipient of the John Courtney Murray Award of the Catholic Theological Society of America, a group he directed as president in 1972. 

Wednesday, May 2, 1979-page 3 
InPIRG reconsiders, changes fee proposal 
by Dave ''Sport'' Brosh 
In an effort to avoid a 
confrontation with the--Board of 
Trustees, the Indiana Public 
Interest Research Group 
(InPIRG) decided last night to 
modify its proposal concerning 
the collection of student fees. 
lnPIRG had been seeking a two 
tiollar per semester refund­
able fee. 
In a letter dated April 25, Fr. 
Theodore Hesburgh infoqned the group that in 1977, "the Trustees mandated that in the future students who wanted to be billed for InPIRG would have the opportunity of checking off · that fact on the bill as presented to their parents.'' His letter went on to say, "I do not believe that the Trustees will rescind their action, since it was taken after considerable discus­
0
SIOn. " 

After stating what the arl"""' 
istration and the Trustee~ would 
accept in the area of economiCs, 
Hesburgh expressed his view 
and the view of the Trust~, 
concerning InPIRG. ".t would 
not want this to appear w you 
that I do not respect the good 
efforts you have made to obtain 
a majority of students of the 
support oflnPIRG nor do I have 
any objections, nor do the 
Trustees, that InPIRG exist and 
operate on this campus, pro­
vided it solicits its own fund­
ing." 

The members of the grour. 
agreed to accept the offer of a' 
positive check off. The group 
took this stance because they 
believe InPIRG will still be 
beneficial to the students and 
community, even with reduced 
funds. 

A positive check off is the 
method whereby the student 
TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
must check off on his University bill that he wants to pay the two dollar InPIRG fee. Figures released by the National PIRG show that under a positive check off a PIRG collects fees from only about 15 percent of the students. 
It appears now that the proposal to establish lnPIRG, 
with  the  modification  of  the  
funding  mechanism,  will  be  
accepted hy the Trustees.  

SMC names 
Lou valedictorian 
Saint Mary's College senior Kam-Fong Alice Lou has been named valedictorian of the class of 1979. Ms. Lou, who wi!J receive a B.B.A. in business administration and economics, has a cumulative grade point average of 3.96 on a 4.0 scale. 
A native of Macao, Ms. Lou is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Chin Pang Lou . 
She will deliver the valedic­tory address at Saint Mary's 132nd commencement on Sat­urday, May 19, 1979. 
ROCCOS 
m•n's hairstyling at comfortabl• prlc•s 531 N. ffilchlgan 
233-4957 

Call 291-3150 
companies have begun training non-whites for previously white-reserved jobs because there are not enough whites. 
Last March, the all-white mineworker's union went on a.... wildcat strike to protest giving reserved jobs to non-whites. But mining companies refused to give in and the strike by some 7,000 white· miners stopped within a week. 
If the commission recommen­dations are accepted and the ~current laws are changed by the all-white Parliament, blacks would not only be entitled to form their own labor unions, but also to negotiate with management and to strike. 


For Information About Other Cente~s In More Than 80 Major US Cities & Abroad Outside NY Slate CALL TOLL FREE: 100-223·1712 
-Friday May 4th is the last regular issue of the Observer for the semester 
-A Graduation issue will be published on Thursday May 17th with an expanded personals section. 
Please place personals for this issue at the Observer office by this friday till 5:00 


The Observer Wednesday, May 2, 1979 -page 4 
Another frisbee game takes place on campus as students enjoyed one ofthe first spn·ng days in over a week. [Photo by Bob Gil/i 
... -Summer Arch 


In sociology survey 
' 

Students nam.e 'lllost adfllired' 
by Kit Bernardi 

Two hundred Notre Dame students were chosen at ran­dom recently and asked which women they admired most in a survey conducted by two Saint Mary's sociology sirdents. 
One hundred men from Flan­ner and one hundred women from Farley and Breen-Phillips were polled by Maureen Shee­han and Mary J o Schramm, both freshmen. 
The survey results were tallied separately for the men and women and then combined for a final total. Students were asked to select their ''three most admired'' women from a list of 25 compiled by Sheehan and Schramm. The two sociol­ogy students had consulted a Good H< usekeeping Magazine ":Most Admired Women" sur­vev wht>n thev chose their field of~andidates · 
Sneehan and Schramm were surprised at the results of their survey. 
"We thought there would be 
WHAT?  OBS~RY€R {?~RtY  
WHERE?  41USS€P€' S  
WHO? WHEN?  all OBS€RV€R sta~~ 1nv1t€b 'sat may 5 9:00pm--?  /  
~~  ~EER  & PIZZA  
vGn will deliver Observerites  

Ideal gift 
for that 
special occasion 
The Hesburgh Papers: Higher Values in Higher Education 
by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh 

big difference between the choices of the men and the women, but the results were similar," Sheehan remarked. 
Both groups included Mother Teresa, Katherine Hepburn and Margaret Meade in their top five. The men ranked Linda Ron stadt and Cheryl Tiegs fourth and fifth. The women, however, awarded those women only three votes each and chose Rose Kennedy and Dr. Joyce Brothers as fourth and fifth "most admired." 
When Sheehan and Schramm combined the selections of the men and the women surveyed, the top five positions were taken by Mother Teresa, Kath­erin Hepburn, Margaret Meade, Rose Kennedy and Barbara Streisand. 
Sheehan and Schramm called the survey' 'a means to find out and compare the difference between Notre Dame men's and women's selections of their most admired women.'' 
Saint Mary's sociology pro­fessor Evelyn Elmer described 

Notre Dame's president has been in office longer than any other currently active president of a, 
maior American university. Here he reveaLs the private thoughts ami behind-the-scenes 
events u;hich have marked his political, religious, and educational involvements. · 
Available now at 512.95 gook Department 2nd floor The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
. 
t 
._L___________________________________________________________________ -­
the project as an elementary research project exposing the students to one aspect of socio­logical research. 
The project was part of "Introduction to Socwlogy", 
taught  by  Elmer  at  Saint  
Mary's.  
1. Mother Teresa  77  
2. Katherine Heptlurn  66  
3. Margaret Meade  57  
4. Rose Kennedy  37  
5. Barbara Streisand  31  
6. Barbara Walters  30  
7. Linda Ronstadt  30  
8. Dr. Joyce Brothers  29  
9. Betty Ford  28  
10. Dorothy Hamill  27  

KofC sponsors 
Dor-A-Lin 
The Knights of Columbus are sponsoring a visit this evening to River Bend Manor, formerly known as Dor-A-Lin. The purpose of the visit will be to talk and get to know some of the residents of the nursing home; all interested individuals are urged to come along and bring some cheer. Tht> Knights .,.,iii leave from tht> Cown 11 ai i p.m. 
Nurses schedule Blood clinic 
A Blood Pressure Screening ' Clinic will be held in -the Stafleton Lounge of LeMans hal on the St. Mary's campus tomorrow from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. . The clinic will be sponsored by the Student Nur­ses Association and the St. Joseph County Health Depart­ment. 

[continued from page 11] 
with a Midwestern town and 
the other dealing with a Univer­
sity campus. 
Bellalta cited several examples where architects should consider human needs in remodeling campus build­ings. "Notre Dame doesn't have the social space for more causual social activities,'' she ~id. "Both inside and outside the South Dining Hall, there is no space for the movement of the people.'' The reason for encouraging students from other disciphnes in the seminar 
is that, "we want to look at 
these problems from many 
points ofview,~' Bellalta stated. 
Bellalta believes that 
"people now need a hand in 
shaping the environment'' and 
architects should listen more to 
the points of view of people 
from other fields as they make 
their designs. 
"As Notre Dame is con­
cerned with humanitarian 
issues, we should be concerned 
with more people d: -ussing 
these issues,'' she sai adding 
SENIO,R -ALUffiNI 
by

PICNIC StepGn Center SATURDAY, mAY 5th 11 am-1 pm ftee beet 'n btauts fot the class of '79 Working in G new city after graduation ? 
Notre 0Gme Alumni Clubs will hGve information a vGiiGble to help you get settled 
that Notre Dame should ''try to get people from disciplines talking together about these needs." 
Students from the social sciences will be able to give architecture students more per­spective on the social needs in urban design in these seminars. Art students can help give architecture students ideas for more aesthetic designs. In the seminars students will present investigative projects to the class at the end of the summer. 
Bellalta sees a strong correla­tion between the student's work in Midwestern cities and on the Notre Dame campus because "the campus has the image of a tiny city" with buildings to suit the needs of different inhabi­tants. 
She says this is tht "fir->t ef~ort of the Architecture Dept. to mclude other students· in its courses and she hopes that the new program will ''change the image" of architecture fr·,.m a nearly isolated field to one with a strong regard for human social needs. 

The Observer Wednesday, May 2, 1979 -page 5 

.. 
Volleyball got ezual time to frisbee matches on campus 
yesterday as I e weather cleared enough for some 
spn.ngtime leisure. {Photo by Bob Gzll] 

Scandal rages 1n South Bend 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) · Six firemen, including two cap­tains, were accused Tuesday of engaging in sexual activity with a 17-year-old girl who had been visiting the ctty' s fire stations since last August. 
Two other firefighters were charged with other depart­mental disciplinary violations in connection with the month-long investigation into the sex scan­dal, city officials said. dal, city officials said. 
The allegations were filed by Fire Chief Oscar Van Wiele at a meeting of the Board of Public Safety. The board was sche­duled to meet in executive session Tuesday night to con­sider rhe alleged vwlations of department rules and decide what action would be taken against the men. 
Van  Wiele  said  Capts.  
Edward  Palicki  and  Daniel  
O'Neill  have  admitted  their  

involvement with the young woman, described by officials as emotionally disturbed. They have agreed to Van Weile's recommendations that they be demoted to private. In addi­tion, he recommened that Palicki be suspended without pay for 75 days and O'Neill for 45 days. 

Other firefighters accused of having sexual relations with the girl are Charles Harrison, Fred Jaronik, Paul Szynski and Robert L. Snider, Jr. 
Two others face disciplinary action as a result of the investi­gation by fire and police offi. cials. Fireman Chris Switalski was cited with conveying false information to superior officers. Larry Buchanan admitted to his charge of insubordination for failing to take a lie-detector test. Van Wiele recommended 
a  three-day  suspension  for  
Buchanan.  
The  safety  board  was  

expected to decide at its Tues­day meeting whether to accept Van Wiele's recommendations for punishing the three men who have admitted their involvement. Hearing dates will be set for the other five, and an announcement was expt:cted Wednesday. 
For SMC upperclassmen 
Augusta Hall spells freedom. 
by Pam Degnan Staf!Reporter 
Augusta Hall spells freedom 
to 65 juniors and seniors who 
live there each year. 
Operating with the philoso­phy that college students are responsible adults, the success of Augusta Hall raises an interesting question: Is it possible for the other dorms on Saint Mary's cam pus to be modeled after Augusta Hall and achieve the same kind of suc­cess? 
The whole concept behind Augusta Hall is that each restdent, being a mature adult, should be allowed to ~overn themselves without admtnstra­tive intervention. 
Karen Mitchell, the resident advisor of Augusta Hall, views the hall's living arrangements as the "closest thing to living off-campus.'' The front door is always locked so each residC'nt is ~iven her own key. The panetal system does exist in Augusta but the main stipula­tion is that male visitors do not check-in. 
''Everything we do, whether it results in a violation or nor, is our responsibility and we must face the consequences later," explained Mitchell. 
"Violations," according to Mitchell, "ideally should be ironed out between the resi­dents. But if a certain situation becomes ''unmanageable'', the hall judicial system will deal directly with the problem" 
It has only been within the past year, however, that the role of the judicial board and the positions of the hall officers have been strengthened. In previous years the hall posi­tions had been virtually non­existent. But this past semes­ter, a majority of the residents appealed to Mitchell for a redefinition of the hall govern­ment positions. Backed by this response, Mitchell set guide­lines based on the student government manual, for a "workable" hall government. 
Augusta Hall runs on a limited budget. Sr. Karol Jackowski, director of Resi­dence Life, explained that because Augusta began as an experimental project without a "defined" government, there was never any need to allocate funds for the hall. 
Due in part to the success of the "new" hall council, how­ever, Jackowski foresees a sub­stantial increase in next year's budget. 
Jackowski maintains that the acfminstration is exploring the possibility of arranging ''crea­tive living arrangements'' for next year. 

''The main reason why Augusta is so successful is that the residents who usually live there are more responsible and sensitive to the needs of the other residents. Jackowski stated that none of the prob­lems in Au~usta have been as flagrant as 10 other halls. 
Perhaps the major drawback in creating "model Augustas" wold be the necessary reduction in size and population of the 
.-other halls in order to achieve the same kind of succes& in Augusta. Jackowski asserts, however, that the adminstra­tion is "highl)' supportive" of the idea of offering innovative living arrangements. 
Notre Dame students­
""" 
Take advantage of our special 5o/o 

student discount 
on our extensive lir'P of health foods at the 
SEARS HEALTH FOOD STORE 
located in the University Park Mall 

,Anyone interested in applying
I 

should pick up application from the Student Govemment Secretary by Thursday, May 3, at 5:00. 
We'll be bustln' loose for the Finals Fiasco 
LEE'S and DILLON 
present 2 IDs required 

Thursday May 3 from 9-1 guys/$3.00 girls/$2~oo 
Wednesday, May 2, 1979 -page 6
Features 

'n' I'm so wrong." Punk catches a few
Mick -Mancuso 

stabs in ''I'm So Cute." The guitar sytle is hard-distortion on this rune
Frank Zappa's Bizarre Musical Concept 
,. where drummer Terry Bozzio tells the 

"Rock journalism is people who can't wn'te interviewing people who can't talk for people who can't read." It's little gems like this one, that won him Rolling Stone's "Turkey of the Year" Award, that make the man what he is. He's tpe one that warned us of the dangers of the deadly yellow snow, the one who named his children Dweezil and Moon Unit, the one who dared to be absurd in a world of broke hearts and halucinogenic fantasies. He is, without doubt, Frank Zappa. 
Frank Zappa is without a doubt one of the creative musical geniuses of our time. Avant-garde humorist, guitarist par-excellence, engineering wizard, movie producer and symehony writer it is doubtful that he will ever fully express the store of his creativity. His tongue-in-cheek social commentary has had an effect on rock music that will not fully be recognized for years to come. 
Who couldn't love a band called The Mothers of Invention that annually play a "Mother's Day Concert?" Besides creating an outlet for his music, Zappa has, through The Mo­thers, created an outlet wtth which to expose to the world new talent. The likes of George Duke, Jean Luc Ponty, and Aynsley Dunbar are only a few that have spawned from this group of groups. The work is as varied as parodies of modern life and dreams of dental floss farming. There's even a theme song for Seniors, "Wind Up Workin' in a Gas Station." It's no ordinary band that puts out albums titled "Weasels Ripped My Flesh," and "Bongo Fury." There is an insanity that is pervasive in everything from the titled to the lyrics to the album covers. 
To the true essence of one 

must attend a concert. Finding a ticket might take some effort since they usually sell out. He once sold out the ACC. This is one unique thing about Zappa; although he has never had a Top 40 hit he is able to consistently sell out concerts. A word of caution though, expect anything! The audi­ence is likely to get mooned by the performer, while the performer is likely to be pelted with English mufftns and like it. It's the kind of crow~ that you might see at a midnight showtng of The Rocky Horror Picture Show; a crowd that lives on the outer edges of life. One of Zappa's most famous numbers was one called ''Dead Air'' in which' the band would stop what they were doing and just sit around and act as if nobody was there until the aud~ence got restless. Zappa would t~~~ hg.htly reply, "brings out the hosttltttes tn you, doesn't it?" 
Partly due to both his nature and the nature of his works, Zappa has never been very cozy with his record companies. When Zappa first brought to Verve Records the reaction of the executives at an early concert ran from shock to near violence. Through the years he wandered from Verve to Reprise to his own Bizarre Records and then finally to the Warner Bros. /Discreet label under which he produced some of his finest work in the early seventies. Hassles began and there were long legal battles which he ended UJ? losing. His frustrations were evident tn his Fall 1977 tour when he :";'oul~ open each night by saying, don t buy any of my albums on Warner Brothers, they're ripping me ~ff. '' Zappa guickly compiled some · ltve recordings tn ''New York'' in early· '78 and then released two marginal studio works in Fall '78 and January 
uglies to go and die. One song Domers '79 to fulfill his contract. Back in the should ~e able to relate to is "Bobbystudios for the third time in a year he Brown.
recorded his fourth album to be released in a year, "Sheik Yerbouti," 
''Oh God I am the Amen·can Dream, 
on his own ZAPPA Records, 
I do not think I'm too extreme, 
The ad in the magazines describes 
an' I am a handsome sono(abitch, 
the cover of the album as "a life-size 
I'm gonna get a goodjob 
kissable close-up of this schmuck in a 
andbe real rich. '' 
low-rent bernoose." Don't be fooled, "Sheik Yerbouti" is Frank Zappa's Bobby runs into women's liberationfinest work yet, surpassing even such and what happens is about as wild asclassics as "Apostrophe" a"nd "Over­Zappa gets. Once again we're on thenight Sensation." As always, the edges of his humor, which could besound quality is so excellent as to drive regarded as sick. It's very effective,you to blast out the plaster with thougll, and the idea is projectedvolume. Zappa has definitely been without one having to analyze the song saving up for this, his first release on for days. It's too bad that some of thethe new label. 
album's best songs will never be ableZappa's work is not for those who are to get radio play.
easily offended. The liberal mix of Not one to disappoint his diehardfour letter words and unusual subject fans, Zappa has included a fewmatter may be offensive to those instrumentals. Although there are notunable to s<;:e through the surface as many on this 'double disc as aredefinitions and into the symbolism and usually on his single albums, "Ratuse as a vehicle for setting a tone. For Tomango," and "The Sheik Yerboutithe true music freaks out there who get Tango" are excellent examples of theinto studio technique there's plenty electric virtuoso at work. The bandhere. Almost all the tracks were firsr assembled is quite good with drummer recorded live. Then the band would go Terry Bozzio appearing on yet another into the studio and do varying amounts album and rhythm guitarist Adrianof overdubbing. Zappa like<: to tell you Belew doing excellent "Bob Dylan"how he did it, too. All through the vocals. The cast is not as all-star as itliners there are notes of ho~ he peeled has sometimes been but then Zappa isa bass track off a four track master known for discovering and developinghere, p~t in a guitar solo, and unknowns.
svncronized it with a drum line. It all The album is not your everydayc~mes together on the vinyl with a release. It may not be appropriate for sound that isn't.live, that isn't studio, mixed company is there's roo much ice that just sounds great! , in the mix. But if you can appreciateAttacks on both musical styles and off-color humor accompanied by toe­personalities are found in "Sheik notch electric guitar work, ''ShetkYerbouti." Disco parody "Dancin' Y erbouti'' may be your kind of album.
Fool'' is one of the better songs on the You might even ''Freak Out'' on it andalbum. It's the basic story of the klutz become part of the growing cult which who goes to the disco and commits worships "The Grand Wazoo."
"social suicide." "The beat goes on 
\ 
he Observer Wednesday, May 2, 1979 -page 7 
Roche reveals topics, proposal 
by Michael Onufrak StaffReporter 
Student Body President Bill Roche revealed yes­terday that overcrowding in student dormitories, inadequate hall maintenance, the fack of social space on campus, and a proposal for a campus-wide social area in the basement of Keenan hall will be among the topics discussed when Roche and others representing student government present their reports to the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees tomorrow afternoon in the Center for Continuing Education. 
The committee, headed by University trustee John Schneider, traditionally hears student government concerns twice annually. A summarization of the student government reports will be relayed by the Student Affairs Committee to the Board of Trustees. 
Jim Jones will head one studcrnt government committee which will present a teport detailing student body concern for the creation of a public interest research group (PIRG) on campus. A , second student committee will present an opposing viewpoint primarily concentrating on the aspect of the PIRG's proposed funding. 
n his own report on hall life, Roche will draw the committee's attention to the administration's intention to convert kitchenettes in Lewis hall to dormitory rooms, as well as to other over­crowding problems which exist in Walsh, Holy Cross and Farley halls. 
''We will also concentrate on the basic mainten­ance problems which currently exists in Carroll, Holy Cross, and Morrissey," Roche said. He mentioned the poor plumbmg system in Carroll hall as an example of one such maintenance problem. 

Roche also intends to point out.that many dorms still lack adequate social space and a few still do not have any. "Twelve dorms have submitted renovation /laos to increase social space," Roche note . 
One solution to the social space predicament, according to Roche, could be of a campus-wide social area in the basement of Keenan. ''It would be a place to hang out, like a coffeehouse with perhaps some room for dancing and a limited food sa1es operation,'' he said. 
Shannon Neville will cover off-campus prob­lems, centering on student concern over off-campus security and the quality of student housing. The status of student judicial councils and the student judicial system will be summarized in a report. by Jim O'Hare. 
The committee will also listen to the CLC pro­posal to change its memben;;hip to include an off-campus coordinator and judicial coordinator. The board must approve the CLC's proposal before it dill be implemented next semester. SBVP Bill Vita will speak about overcrowding at University athletic facilities. Vita will concen­trate on freeing the ACC from the strict intramural schedulilng which currently exists there, as well as exploring the possibility of opening up buildings such as Stepan Center to more athletic-minded students. 
According to Roche, facilities like the ACC are constantly used by inter-hall and intramur~l leagues, "making it difficult for a student not 10 either ofthese organizations to just show up and play." Mike Roohan will then give a presentation cover-­ing the accomplishments of the previous student government administration. Roohan was student body vice-president under SBP Andy McKenna. 
The presentation of reports will be closed by Roche who will list his goals for the coming semester. 
UNIVERSilY OF NOTRE DAME BOARD OF TRUSTEES COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS 
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE PUBLIC RELATIONS & DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. -CHAIRMAN Paul Foley -CHAIRMAN " 
Thomas P. Carney Paul Foley Robert A. Erkins Paul F. Hellmuth-SECRETARY James W. Frick (Ex-officio)
Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C. Edmond R. HaggarWilliam M. Lewers, C.S.C. Frank E. Mackie, Jr.' Frank E. Mackie, Jr. Joseph B. BcGlynn, Jr. 
0. Timothy O'Meara Joseph I. O'Neill, Jr. John T. Ryan, Jr. Howard V. Phalin John A. Schneider Ernestine M. Radin Alfred C. Stepan, Jr. Frank E. Sullivan 
Edmund A. Stephan Jerome W. Van Gorkom Robert K. Wilmouth 

ACADEMIC AND FACULTY AFFAIR COMMITTEE 
Thomas P. Carney -CHAIRMAN ~' 
STUDENT AFFAIRS COMMITTEE Ernest J. Bartell, C. S.C.
) ohn A. Schneider -CHAIRMAN -' 

John B. Caron Robert E. Gordon (Ex-officio)
Thomas E. Blantz, C.S.C. 

William M. Lewers, C.S.C. /Catherine B. Cleary Mark G. McGnith, C.S.C.
Anthony R. Earley 0. Timothy O'Meara,Philip J. Faccenda Martha E. Peterson .

Paul F. Hellmuth · Alfred C. Stepan, JrJDonald J. Matthews 0. Meredith Wilson Jane C. Pfeiffer John D. Rockefeller, IV John L. Van Wolvlear, C.S.C. (ex-officio) 

FINANCIAL .AFFAIRS COMMITTEE 
Jerome W. Van Gorkom -CHAIRMAN 
Robert W. GAlvin Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C . .,.­
INVESTMENT COMMITTEE Thomas J. Mason (Ex-officio) , John J. Powers, Jr.

Robert K. Wilmouth -CHAIRMAN 
Jeromej. Crowley . Arthur . Decio 

J. Peter Grace NOMINATING COMMITTEE 
'Donald M. Graham Roland D. Grimm Edmund A. Stephan -·CHAIRMAN , Edmund P. Joyce C.S.C."" Thomas). Mason (Ex-officio) Thomas P. CArney, 
John M. Regan, Jr. Paul F. Hellmuth John T. Ryan, Jr. • Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. " Richard R. Shinn William M. Lewers, C.S.C. .1 George D. Woods John T. Ryan, Jr. 
Fr. Hesburgh will meet with the Board ofTrustees tomorrow to prepare annual reports. [Photo by joe Raymond} 
Board committees 
to prepare reports 
by Maureen Heraty South African companies or 
StalfReporter withdraw from banks that loan 
to South Africans. It would 
require however than the com­
panies which the university and 
Tomorrow, the committees the university's banks invested from the Board of Trustees will follow the Sullivan Principles in meet again to prepare their their hirin~ processes. The reports for the btannual Board Sullivan Pnnctples prevent em­of Trustee Meeting Friday. In ployers fro~ di~cri.~inating both the spring and the fall, the agamst certam mmonues. committees from the Board of John A. Schneider chairs the Trustees meet the day before Student Affairs Committee the Board of Trustees meeting which also contains such not­to discull and prepare the able members as Fr. Thomas E. various proposals that the . Blantz, of Notre Dame's De· Board will consider the next partment of History and the day. honorable John D. Rockefeller, 
The committees research Governor of West Virginia. proposals, talk to the• peri-James Murphy, Asst. Vice­tioners and the opposition, if President of Public Relations any, in order to make clear and Development, who records assessment of the facts sup-the minutes of the Board meet­porting or negating the pro-ing, related that the committee posal. The commmees then researched the ''whole matter present their proposals to the of social space" this fall. The Board the next day and r~com-committee instigated the ex­mend a course of action. · pansion of LaFortune Student 
The Board allows any mem-Center, giving their approval ber of the student and faculty for the remodeling of the Hud­subdivisions of the committees die and LaFortune basement. such as the academic commis-''The committee also recog­sioner or the director of student nized the need for additional affairs, to sit in on the board undergraduate dorms," Mur­meeting when the Board dis-phy stated. ''The Board di. cusses a proposal which con-rected the administration to cerns his subdivision. admit five hundred more wo-
Occasionally the Board ap-men students as soon as a new points certain trustees to a Women's dorm was built." special committee 'to research The committee has some­special problems. Last fall a times met as many as four special committee helped form-times a year in order to evaluate ulate a new investments policy progress made in specific mat­for the university. The Board ters and to discuss several stated that Notre Dame would not divest itself of stock in [Continued on page 10] 
__-..;..;____ , ______J 


The Observer Wednesday, May 2, 1979--page 8 
From the Board of Trustees 

Student Affairs Committee 


Fr. Thomas E. Blants received his A.B. degree from Notre Dame in 1957 and his STL from Gregorian UniversitY in Rome in llJ61. He receiv'ed his Ph.D. from Columbia in 1968. He is presently University Archi­vist and was appointed a trustee in 1970. 

In 1978, Jane C. Pfeiffer. became Chairman of NBC, after a twenty-year career at IBM. At IBM she held various management posi­tions, including Vice-Presi­dent. SHe is a graduate of the University of Maryland. In addition to servina as a Notre Dame trustee, she is a trustee for Catholic Uni­versity of America and the Rockefeller Foundation. 
Fr. John L. Van Wotvlear, a 1945 alumnus of Notre Dame, was appointed in May· 1978 r0 succeed Bro. Just Paczesn) Vice-President for Student 1\t­fairs. After his ordination at Notre Dame's Sacred Heart Church in 1949 Van Wolvlear taught at Holy Cross Seminary until 1954. He was also rector of Cavanaugh Hall. 
From 1955 to 1965 he was assistant superintendant and assistant principle at Notre Dame high school in Niles, IL. In 196 5 he was assigned to the University of Portland, where he ~ rved in a variety of posittvns until 1976. 
John D. Rockefeller IV was elected governor of West Vir­ginia in 1976. He graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy and Harvard University. From 1957 through 1960 he attended International Christian Univer­sity in Tokyo, Japan, where he taught English and developed fluency in the Japanese lang­uage. He returned to Harvard in 1961 and was graduated with a bachelor of arts degree in Japanese and Far Eastern Af­fairs and Languages. Rocke­feller has three children. 
Anthony F. Earley is a 1947 graduate of Notre Dame. He is the president of Chave and Earley, Inc., a New York City Textile converting firm. He is former president of the Notre Dame Club of New York and a member of the Alumni Schools Committee Advisory Board. 

John A. Schneider, a broadcast consultant in New York City, earned an 
A.B. from Notre Dame. During World War II he served as a Naval Officer. He has served as President of the CBS I Broadcast Group, Senior Vice Presi­dent and General Execu­tive, CBS, Inc. 
Donald ] . Matthews is president of ] ohnson and Higgins of Texas, Inc. in Dallas, Texas. He received a B.S. in Commerce from Notre Dame in 195 5. Matthews was elected to the Notre Dame Board of Trustees in 1971, and became a member of the Student Affairs Committee in May, 1978. 
Paul Helluth received an 
A.B. degree from Notre Dame in 1940. He went on to earn a law degree from Harvard Uni­versity in 1943, and did grad­uate study at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard Graduate School of Public Administration. He is presently a fellow, trustee, Secretary of rhe Board, and Member of the Executive Committee, Student Affairs Committee and Nomination Committee of the Bllard for the University. 
----------------------~---------~­
··~ 
------------· 
-· I

The Observer Wednesday, May 2, 1979 -page 9 
Catherine B. Cleary, who received an honory doctorate in law from Notre Dame in May, 1977, became the 41st member of the Board of Trustees. Cleary graduated from the Uni­versity of Chicago in 1937 and received her law d('gree from the University of Wisconsin in 1943. She worked in various positions for the First Wiscon­sin Trust Company in Milwau­kee, including president, and chairman of the board. 
.. 
-
.. 
-
.... 
••• t; 
~ 
. 
1 


Did you know we 
can find abreast cancer 
as small as the head ofapin? 


Such a tiny cancer can almost always be cured. A cancer of this size can best be found by mammography -atechnique oflow-dose breast x-rays. Using far less radiation than ever before, mammography can detect a cancer long before a lump can be felt. While the cancer is still highly curable. 
Not every woman needs mammography. But for those women over 50 or with special reasons to be concerned, like those with symptoms or a strong family history of breast cancer, mammography can find atiny cancer before it has spread. Ask your doctor about mammography. 
American Cancer Society 


Phillip J. Faccenda was ap­pointed General Counsel of the University of Notre Dame in July, 1970, where he presently serves. He is a 1952 Mechan­ical Engineering Graduate of Notre Dame. He received his Doctor of Jurisprudence from Loyola University in 1957. Before joining the University's employ, Faccenda was partner in a law practive in Chicago. He was elected to the Board of Trustees in 1973. He is the father of six ehildren. 
Giveevery

(f) 
MARCH OF DIMES 



THIS SPACE CONTRIBUTED BY THE PUBLISHER 
/The Observer Wednesday, May 2, 1979 -page 10 
1 Alumni Board and Senate 

Alumni Clubs sponsor Senior-Alumni picnic 
Second annual 

The second annual Senior­Alumni picnic will be held this Saturday at Stepan Center from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.' The Class of 1979 is invited to attend this picnic and meet with Notre Dame alumni. 
This event is the culmination of a series of meetings and activi­ties which the Notre Dame Alumni Board and Senate have 
. been attending on the campus sinceWednesday. It offers all graduates a chance to meet with the presidents of the Notre Dame Alumni Clubs throug:1 out the United States. The presidents and club members will have information available to help the seniors get settled in their new city and job. If a senior needs information about housing, maps of the city, or contacts for N.D. activities, Saturday's picnic will provide the opportunity for seniors to sign up in the clubs and introduce themselves to the president and members. The picnic is scheduled as a tailgater before the Blue-Gold game and will offer free beer and brauts for the Class of '79. In the event of rain, the picnic will still be held inside Stepan Center at the same time. 


Timothy L. Truesdell, a 1974 graduate of the University of Notre Dame, is the assistant director of the University's Alumni Association . 
In this capacity he offers guidance and counsel to over 130 alumni clubs across the country, coordinates the annual Universal Notre Dame Night program, supervises the Student-Alumni Relations Group on campus and edits various alumni publications, in­cluding the Club News section of Notre Dame Magazine. 
A native of Niles, Mich., he attended the University of Mis­souri for three semesters before transferring to Notre Dame where he majored in communi­cations and American Studies. His writings have been featured in The Observer, The Public Relations Handbook, Notre Dame Magazine and communi­cation brochures of Missouri and Notre Dame. 
He joined the alumni staff at Notre Dame following gradua­tion as assistant to the execu­tive director, specializing in writing and audio-visual pro­duction. He was appointed assistant director of the 60,000­member organization in July, 1977. 
He is a member of the Council for Advancement and Support of Education, the Student-Alumni Programs Con­ference, serves on the board of education at St. Mary's School in Niles, Mich., and the board of directors of Gallery Invest­ments in Sacramento, Calif. and is a 1978 graduate of the CASE Summer Institute in Alumni Administration held ~t Michigan State 


John N. Cackley, former regional director of develop­ment in Chicago for the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, was ap­pointed executive director of the University's Alumni Asso­ciation in September, 1975. 
Between 1947 and 1961, Cackley assisted James E. Armstrong, executive secretary of the Alumni Association, in many facets of the office, including five years as manag­ing editor ofAlumnus magazine and 12 as editor of a sister publication, Notre Dame. He was involved in servicing the extensive ne~ork of Notre Dame alumni clubs across the nation and helped coordinate such major Association activi: ties as theJune reunion and the spring Universal Notre Dame Nights. He is a former presi­dent of two Notre Dame alumni clubs-St. Joseph Valley (South Bend) and Lehigh Valley (Allentown, PA). 
Cackley is a 1937 graduate of Notre Dame. 

Students submit proposals 
Laura Lanmore were given a tour of residence following October, the Board 
Senior StaffReporter halls and social space to provide approved the formation of the ~hem with first-hand exper-new body within the structure tence. formulated by Bender. The 
Any definite proposals emer-new CLC replaced the Student 
A student proposal to the ging from the day-long discus-Life Council in an advisory, but Board of Trustees must first be sion are then presented by the not legislative, capacity. aired to its Student Affairs Student Affairs subcommittee The function of the subcom­Committee. The subcommittee to the complete Board of Trus-mittee is an alternative to a serves primarily as a liason tees for discussion and a vote. student member of the Board. between the student body and If passed, they are directed to With the busy schedule of a the Trustees. After this initial the administration for imple-Trustees' meeting, one student contact, the proposal is voted mentation. member could utilize only a on directly by the Board. This procedure was demon-. small amount of time to present 
Proposal legislation has no strated in the creation of the his views. The committee formal structure. Student Campus Life Council (CLC). provides a means for students representatives usually spend a. The proposal was put before the to meet directly with represent­day with the subcommittee Trustees at the.ir meeting in atives from the Trustees for an discussing major problems of April, 1977 by then student extended length of.time. It also the Notre Dame community. At body President Dave Bender. It gives a more effective vehicle 
.Jasr Spring's meeting, the was accepted at that time for for actual proposal presenta­members of the committee study. At their meeting the tion.
I 

~~,:;~7·:::::;,. ....,;:::ame:W!'a::-wm:e.msm w fW • a 
Joseph B. McGlynn, Jr., a 1955 graduate and honorary president of the Alumni Associ­ation, is an attorney with McGlynn & McGlynn in St. Louis. Previously he served as president of the Association as well as the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis. 
Anthony F. Earley, a 1947 graduate of the University of Notre Dame, became president of the 60,000-member Alumni AssociationJuly 1, 1978. First elected to the board of alumni directors in 1976, he presides at the three meetings held on the campus each year at which policy for the association, which mcludes 175 local clubs across the nation, is established. 
In addition to the campus meetings he attends many alumni district and city club sessions and occupies an ex­officio seat on the University's Board of Trustees. 
Mr. Earley is president of Chave and Earley, Inc., a New York City textile converting firm, and lives in Garden City, 
N.Y. He is a former president of the Notre Dame Club of New York and a 'member of the Alumni Schools Committee Ad­visory Board. He is also a member of his parish council, the New York Archdioces Com­mittee of the Laity, and serves as a director of the Cherry Valley Club. 
• • • Committees 
[Continued /rom page 7] 
matters that demand immed­iate attention. 
Although the committees from the Board of Trustees must always research. a pro­posal beforF the Board reviews tt, trustee~ who belon~ to the administrari Jn may bnef other trustees on specific issues per­taining to the University. These trustees may summarize the opinions of students, fac­ulty, and administration on specific issues or outline signif­icant events relevant to the University. For example, at this upcoming meeting, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, President may report on the outcome of the Danahy case, and Fr. 
W WA
=· 

Edmund P. Joyce, Executive Vice-President, may inform the Board of the effect ofTitle IX on the University's present distri­bution of funds for athletic development. 
The Board then may add comments and perhaps suggest new policies for the University to follow or give committees new projects in response to the trustees' reports. 
Layout: Tim ''Scoop'' Sullivan, Production 
.Manager Content: Diane Wilson, Managing Editor 

----~ 
The Observer Wednesday, May 2, 1979 -page 11 

Notre Dame·~ bandfilled the air in front ofthe Administration Budding with a wide varie.t;t of tunes zn an outdoor spnng concert yesterday. [photo by Bob Gtllj 
Carter calls criticism 'baloney' 
WASHINGTON (AP' Presi­dent Carter says Sen. Edward 
M. Kennedy's criticism of administration oil policies is a lot of baloney, but the senator says he' II still sup~;ort Carter in the 1980 presidential campaign. 
''I'm not hurt or shocked,11 the Massachusetts Democrat said Monday shortly after Carter called Kennedy's criti­cism of the administration's oil policies '' a lot of baloney.'' 
Then, giving what has become his standard response to questions about the 1980 presidential race, Kennedy said heexpectedCarter "will run, be re-nominated and re-elected. II 
lt generally is conceded that 
I 
the most formidable obstacle to that scenario would be a Ken­nedy candidacy. The senator steadfastly demes any intention of running, although public opinion polls among Democrats 
frequently rank htm ahead• 'bf 
Carter as the prefened presi­
dential candidate for 1980. 
At a nationally broadcast news conference, Carter reacted angrily to a Kennedy speech in New York in which the senator continued his sharp actack on the president's plan to phase out price controls on U.S. oil and to levy a tax on the resulting excess profits. 
Kennedy told the American Society of Newspaper Editors that "the overbearing power of the oil lobby ... has inumidated the administration into throw­ing in the towel without even entering the ring on the issue of oil price decontrol '' 
''That is just a lot ot baJo­ney, 11 responded Carter, who added that he would gladly support efforts from anyone in Congress "including Sen. Kennedr.,'' to toughen his tax proposa. 
'1 really can't believe that Sen. Kennedy said this unless the phrases were taken out of context,'' Carter said. 
''The facts speak for them­selves,11 said the senator. "I think the administration did throw in rhetowelwithout a fight on decontrol.'' 
As for Carter's reaction, Kennedy said, "I think he was defending his position in the strongest manner he could. I happen to think it's an indefen­sible position.'' 
If Carter was astonished by Kennedy's criticism Monday, the president must not have been llstenmg last week when 
, Kennedy used words such as "political opportunism" and "charade" tn referring to decontrol and the windfall profits tax. That criticism came at a hearing of the Energy subcom­mittee of the Joint Economic Committee which Kennedy chaired. Energy Secretary ] ames Schlesinger was the witness and the two clashed heatedly. Kennedy said it would be hard for people in New England who are heavily dependent on heating oil to regard decontrol "as more than political oppor­tunism.'' As for the profits tax, Ken­nedy said, "Quite frankly, I think it's a charade. II 

Dean. wins Mock Stock 
Market grand prize 
The $100 grand prize winner in the l CJ79 Mock Stock Market is Brian Dean, a sophomore business major. Dean's winn­ing :>trategy was to purchase stock in F,.uitain Fashions after learning of a tariff which re­cently h<1d been imposed on textile imports. His stock appreciated a total of $7,642 over the six week period, an annual return of approximately 660 percent. 
Winners 9[ the $25 prizes for best performance in the cate­gories of business undergrad-. uate, non-business undergrad­uates, and graduate and faculty 
were  Bob  Senese,  Errico  
Angivon  and  Charles  Evans,  
respectively.  

The prizes will be presented to the winners by Bill Meyers, a representative of Thomson McKinnon Securities, Inc., a South Bend brokerage firm which provides the prizes. The Mock Stock Market is spon­sored by the Notre Dame Finance Club. 

Schlesinger responed in kind, at one pomt saying: 'Your statement represents a com­pendium of misconceptions that threaten to mislead the Ameri­can people. II 
Sutntner Arch course concerns urban fortn 
by]oe Slovenic 
StaffReporter 
The Notre Dame Architecture Department is offering a new summer program from June 18 to August 3 entitled "Urban Form: Theory and Design. 11 In addition to a design studio, this summer program includes two seminars about architecture and its social effects which are open to students outside the Architecture Department. 
According to Architecture professor Esmee Bellalta rhe summer program is "an experi­ment to broaden the context in which architecture is consi­dered since architecture deals with people and improving the quality in their environment. 11 
Students will make field trips to Chicago in addition to care­fully examining the architecture on the Notre Dame camrus. Bellalta says students wil look "beyond the strict boundaries of the construction of buildings to see how both campuses and cities should be revised to suit the environment." 
The course options include two seminars of three credits each and a design studio for architecture students only. The seminars are open to all stu­dents. _...­
One seminar will deal with site development and issues involving physical contexts for architecture with a view towards the relationship between the building and the space surrounding it, while the other seminar wtll deal with architectural and urban theory as a historical phenomenon, a practical tool, and an expres­sion of ideals. 
In the design studio, students have a chotce between two design problems, one dealing 
[continued on page 4] 
B & B Storage 
Special Half ·'-.: Price 
group rate for Notre Dame/SMC Students 
US 31 North lowest rates in Michiana 
call : 684-ll.iS 683-8833 


....,.,.,. --I 


--------~------------­
The Observer Wednesday, May 2, 1979 -page 12 
) 


this cone only tops this bush as trash. 
Vietnam's adventure in Cam­bodia, an act that caused con­sternation in nearby Southeast Asian nations. Dong insisted to visiting reporters that his armed forces were only margi­nally involved in Cambodia, but officials elsewhere around the country admitted the large ex­tent of Vietnamese involvement and attempted to justify it. 
STEREO CLEARANCE HOUSE HAS LOWEST STEREO PR 
Pioneer SX780 Receiver $249 Technics SL3300 Turntable $125 Akai CS702D Cassette $125 
Our Free Catalog has many more deals on major brands, even lower prices on our monthly specials sheet. Send now and lind out how to buy current $7.981ist lp's for $3.69. Stereo Clearance House Dept CH81, 1029 Jacoby St.. Johnstown, Pa. 15902. _Phone Quotes 814-536~1611 

ATTENTION ALL SOPHOMORES 
Order your r:lngs before you leave tor summer holidays. Hours: 9:00am to 4:30pm Mon.-Fri. 
in office on first floor of 

.HAMMES NOTRE DAME 
BookstoRe 


• • • Radioactive 
[continued from page 1] 
Strasma said the spill occurred when a small glass viewing tube used in a filter flushing line broke, spilling the water onto the floor. The incident, which began at 3: 10 p.m., lasted no longer than 20 minutes, he said. 

'Tm not aware that an identical incident happened before," Strasma said. 
The gas released to the environment through the build­
ing's  ventilation  system  was -·  
Bamber  
to present sax recital  

The Notre Dame Concert Series will present Dennis Bamber, saxophone, in a recital at 8:15 tonight in the Library Auditorium. The recital, for which Bamber will be joined by other Notre Dame music faculty William Cerny, piano, and Becky Stauffer, piano, is open to the public without charge. 
Bamber is an adjunct instruc­tor ofmusic at Notre Dame. He is a member of the renowned Eugene Rousseau Saxophone Quartet and is a clinician for Yamaha International. He is also the owner of a local business, the Woodwind. , raaioactive but was within NRC limits for releases during nor­mal operations, he said. He said Edison reported a release of 3,000 microcuries per second of radioactivity, while the NRC's allowable limit is 60,00 per second. 

Ga.fda 
•

recetves award 
I'lotre Dame's College of Engineering presented its Out­standing Teacher Award on Thursday, April 26 to Dr. Walter J. Gajda, Jr., associate professor of electncal engineer­mg. 
Gajda had primary responsi­bility for developing the intro­ductory freshman engineering course which he directs, and he is senior author of the textbook used in the Notre Dame course as well as at other institutions. 
Toohey mass 
said today 
A merri01 ial mass of the ressurection .vil1 he said for the mother of Ir. Lill Toohey at 5:15p.m. today in Sacred Heart Church. 
Fr. Toohey's mot;1er passed away Sunday night. 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board 
The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Ediror·in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Features Editor .......C .;.:, Stewart represent the opimon of a majority o£ Managing Edito.r ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor ........ DoL g Christian 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ...... K. Connelly 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewi~ Business Manager .....Steve Odland newspaper published by students of able w all members of the community, News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan the Umversity of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News Edit-or .......... .Mike Shields Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is Saint Mary's Editor ...... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ......Bob Rudy necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Sports Editor ...........Mark Perry Controller .. : . ....... John Tucker 
_The Observer_ 


~ 
l 
l 

The Observer Wednesday, May 2, 1979 -page 13 -l j 

Don't leave school without it. 
Now that you're going out into the world, you're going to need the American Expresslt Card. It's indis-­pensable, for vacations or husiness. 
But don't wait, because we've made it easier to get for graduates. All you need is a $10,000 job (or the promise of one). It'll be tougher . later, so look for this display in the Student Center and other locations around campus. 
The American Express Card. Don't leave school without it. 
SM 

\. 
' 


.
t 




The Observer -Sports Wednesday, May 2, 1979 -page 14 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP) -A Donald Gomes, was barred to a sudden influx of males'' Newbold said similar cases federal judge ruled yesterday from the team only because of into the program. . are before state courts in Mas­
Judge rules 

that a 19-year-old male senior his sex, and would suffer An official of the Rhode sachusetts and Illinois, but this must be allowed to play on his "irreparable harm" if not al­Island Interscholastic League, is the first decision from a high school's all-girl volleyball lowed to play. There is no boys' which refused the 6-foot Gomes federal court.
high-school 

team. The judge said the ruling volleyball team at the school. permission to play on the team, Gomes was out of state at a would not lead to male domina­"In light of his relatively said the ruling will be appealed. college interview and could notmale tion because the student has limited ability, there is little "Ultimately, if we lose, I be reached for comment. His only "limited ability." possibility that his participation think it's goind to be devastat­lawyer also was unavailable, 
• . Parties in the case said Chief would substantially disrupt ing. I think a lot of boys who but an associate said: "We're may )Otn U.S. DistrictJudge Raymond J. league play or provide one team can't make the boys' teams. really glad for Donald. He 
j 

every ran, 
,f·"

r----------------,-. -----------------------------------------------------------------..&·------------------... seemed that something hap­pened,'' Piane commented. "Either we were disqualified, · someone got spiked during the ·
do.it 

race, or people that we counted {, 
'•:.__­

on to do well didn't perform. 
We just didn't get any breaks, 
and some of the performances 1I were lackluster." 
in the water~. 
I 

Arnie Gough had the best performances in an otherwise disappointing meet at Drake, as he ran 13.8 seeonds in the · 
110-meter high hurdles twice, just one-tenth of a second over the NCAA qualifying time. 
SUMMER LEADERSHIP 
PROGRAM.
Are you going to summer school---­
--A SPECIAL COURSE IN LEADERSHIP 

. Netters
-· 

--GIVES YOU A CHANCE TO PAY YOUR OWN WAY THROUGH TWO YEARS OF COllEGE 

{Continued from page 16)OPENS DOORS TO NEW CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
Steve Winsor and Scott Spoerl, 
IF SO--­

6-4, 6-4. This powerful Bronco pair had hopes of competing in 
--YOU MAY QUALIFY FOR A SPECIAL LEADERSHIP PROGRAM OFFERED ONLY FOR 
the NCAA tournament, but the 
COLLEGE FRESHMAN AND SOPHOMORES 

Irish may have altered their plans.
CALL IMMEDIATELY----TO INSURE ENROLLMENT 
The Irish netters are now one step closer to their goal of 20
--CALL {219) 283-626417332 


wins. The team is now 17-8 ytith just three matches remain­
--ASK FOR ON CAMPUS SUMMER LEADERSHIP PROGRAMS 
mg. 
Pettine's ruling is the first in with a disproportionate advan­will try out for the girls' federal court on a boy's attempt tage," Pettine said. teams," said the Rev. Robert to play on an all-girl team. He also said there is no C. Newbold, the league's exec­
all-girl team 

Pettine said the student, evidence the ruling ''will lead utive secretary. 
ACROSS 28 Suit mate­58 Scarpia's 23 Maple genus Let out, as rials murderer 25 Adjutant:in sewing 32 Winter 61 New Zealand abbr. 
The Daily Crossword 
5 Eggon hazard native 27 Shore bird 9 Gender: 35 Disinte­63 "-clear 29 Youth group abbr. grates day" 30 Overhang 13 Wivesof 38 Letters on 64 Ashen 31 Utters Henry VIII some cars 67 Chimney 32 Non-coms 14 Cat's 39 Show jeal­part 33 Plunder 
weapon ousy 68 A Gardner 34 Ohre, to 15 Self: pref. 43 Nail or 69 Get-up-and-Germans 16 Goona hold go 36 Have bills 
rampage 44 Marmalade 70 Certain 37 Work farm­19 WWIIarea ingredient cats land 20 Dunneor 45 Heavenly 71 Colors 40 Dueling
Papas ones: Fr. 72 Wasp's weapon21 Marble 46 Union ploy dwelling 41 Benjamin22 Givean 49 "-Jim" or Rex 
alias to 51 Piping DOWN 42 Within: 24 Sir Francis calls 1 Related to, comb. form 261.ayer or 54 -of Capri­in away 47 Yens short corn· 2 Charged 48 "Bridge on 
particle the River -" 3 D.C. res. 50 Other: Sp. 4 Appraisal 52 Abrasive 
5 Feel sym-53 Riverin pathy Germany 
6 Match 55 "Trees" and 7 Cafe patron "Lycidas" 8 Pair 56 Clumsy
9 Trough for 57 Church: eating abbr. 10 Subtle air 58 Famous name 11 Proofread-in politics
er'sterm 59 Christiania 12 Area or zip 60 Didthe 13 Mime crawl 17 Pioneer's 62 Sugars
journey 65 A Knight © 1979 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. 18 Vigil 66 Weeder All Rights Reserved _ 


Molarity Michael Molinelli 






impresses us as a pretty sincere .kid." 
The preliminary injunction 
issued by Pettine applies only 
to Gomes, and does not open up 
other girls' teams to male 
participation. Newbold said the 
league will not change its rules 
because of the ruling. 
''Anyone else that wants to 
play is going to have to get an 
mjunction too," he said. 
St. Mary's 
falls to Grace College 
Along with the dismal weather conditions on Monday the Saint Mary's softball team also had to suffer the uncomfort of a 8-2 loss at the hands_ of Grace College. Freshman M.J. Murray experienced her second loss of the season, both against Grace, putting her record at 3-2 and the team's at 4-2. 
The offense, which Coach Black termed "nothing spec­tacular'' for the day, co'nsisted mostly of a coJlple of hits by Sue Sneider and a bunt single by Diane Klucka. Klucka's hit brought in the Belles' first run on a throwing error, then Kulcka herself scored later in the inning to sum-up Saint Mary's offense. 
Thursday the Belles will face the number one ranked team from Ball State in the first round of the Indiana State tournament which is to be held in Bloomington. 
The Belles also have a tenta­tive game scheduled this week­end with Notre Dame to make up for last Sunday's rain-out 
·dll 

• • • Track 
[Continued from page 16) home with one place. "In race we it 




The Observer -Sports Wenesday, May 2, 1979 -page 15 
• • . Notre Dame Ruggers defeat Griffins 
[Continued from page 16] realization that it is this healthy inter and intra-by Rich Harper of the game was all Matt jfour goals scored in the final minute, and each hall competition I cherish most and will miss 
and O'Brien and Brian McManus lof them came on great indiv!dual.e~~ms." Next greatly on my departure from Our Lady's school. 

Kevin Connor each scoring twice. Mike year's captain, Greg Meredtth, v1s1tmg ~D as a A fierce contest at the Rock, after which McGlynn played the entire high school senior, spoke of a heartbreakmg 7-6 students relive their exploits· in laying one in Led by Matt O'Brien's 3 trys match with a broken hand, defeat the number-one ranked Huskies of over Rusty Lisch; a keg softball game at greenand Brian McManus' 2 trys, the exemplifying the ·spirit of the Michigan Tech, at a time when h~ck~y fever field, followed by (Shhh!) a keg back in the Irish Ruggers soundly defeated Irish Ruggers, as they notched gripped the campus. The ne:x:t evenmg s game dorm; the rivalries, often intense, between the Chicago Griffins 32-4 on An their fourth win of the season. 

was an easy victory for the Insh, but they won hall members in section football--all these Tostal Saturday. Rebounding Inspired by the "A" team the hearts of the fans the night before by skating moments that have given us a better awareness from last weekend's upsetting victory, the "B" team pounded 
with the nation's best on even terms and of ourselves and a greater toleration of others--I defeat, the Irish registered their way to a 17-0 shutout. 
standing tall after a bitter pill. think these moments will stay with all of us, as their best performance of the The mighty foot of Brad 5) As the strains of a spirited volleyball game well as all Notre Dame graduates a long time year, cheered on by a large "Chief'' Newman sent a pen­filter upwards from the Pangborn Hall courtyard after we've passed from the :scene. 
crowd. alty kick through the uprights into my third floor window, I come to the sudden I'll miss you, Notre Da~~ --· _______J
The ever consistent Kevin giving the "piggies" an early Corcoran started the hall rolling 3-0 lead. There was no further version rounding out the Irish 
D SMC ad 
early in the first half with a one scoring until the waning mom­sc_oring attack ... The vic,tory kept N0 tre ame, vance 
yard plunge, giving the Irish a ents of the first haLf, when the ahve the ''B team s unde­4-0 lead. Herbie Glose and ball reached Joe O'Dea's hands 
Matt O'Brien each scored once and he rambled 40 yards for a ~i~:.d record lengthening it to 5 three .#encers to nationals and Mike Allair added a two try. Off the field, reig,ning rugby f ' point conversion, enabling ·The defense was hot, pre­club president M1ke Roohan Sharon Moore, Twita Kit­sion at the Nationals to be held 
Notre Dame to walk off the field venting the Griffins from put­passes his title on this week to chen, and Dodee Carney swept June 16·23. The competition is with a 14-0 intermission lead. ting any points on the board, next year's newly elected pres­the first three places in the 1979 scheduled to take place at the The Griffins toughened up in but the offense was hotter, ident Jim Bowers. The Bowers Indiana AFLA Divisional Air Force Ac~.demy in Colorado the early moments of the adding ten more points in the administration faces its first Championships of women's foil Springs. Marcella Lansford,second half, breaking through second half. Sean Dempsey test this coming Saturday as the competition held last Saturday. also of Notre Dame, took fifth 
the Irish defense for a quick and John "Maddog" Muldoon Irish host the Indy Reds at Moore and Kitchen, of Samt place in the competition and 4-pointer. But that was all for each scored a try and ''The Stepan Center in their last Mary's and Carney, of Notre serves as the div1sional alter-the Chicago Griffins. The rest Chief'' added a tV.·o-point con-game of the 1978-79 season. Dame, will represent the clivi-nate. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00 p m . two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday. 10 00 a.m. to 5:00p.m All 
cla)51fieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
Lost: At Min:~esota Club Picnic on Green 

Hey Handsome' Don't say you didn't,
fleld-1 large baseball mitt call PetE' 8367 Kathy Keppler
Notices For Sale 
because I know you did_ 
Have fun this summer! I know you won'tItty bitty baby sister 
write, but what can you expect tram Typmg. lAM Selectric Pickup and "swivel Hips"!!!
Must sell Queen size SOFA BED. like delivery 277-0296 -Guess Who?
nev. $300 272-6517 after 9. 4-24-79 Nlte,
For Rent 

I don't know who you are. MOPRrSt.r·~ tOM: FUND For Sale: Easy chairs and arm chair, I never know what I did. 
Happy Birthday (C.E.C)
Nice house for ~ent this sumMer 4 

bookcase call 8954 after 11. So. why don't you call me?
All Morrls't~v lo.1ns rrr.~t :.•e reo~·~ bv To the man all we "SMC chicks" hate.
Bedroom. qu1et neighborhooo. 10

Monday May 7111 In;,,~ nat repa1H v..l: mm. Larry What a womanizer!
from campus. Just across the •iver Call

be turned over to the SluJcr.: 1\cco~nr: T-Shirt closeout. We busted before Salt Shlynn
6637 for Deta1ls.

Penally wrll bP charqen Lake City, but you can still get your salt Ann P. P.S. 
Deep down inside I know your a
Lake City or Bust T-Shirt before you go You might have fallen off the mattress 
pussycat, but don't worry I won't tell 
AlTENIION Apartmpnt IN ~ant. one bedroom. dinmg home. Only $2 apiece or 6 for $10. Help this year, but you'll never fall off mine anyone. _
room. Kitchen anct bath Fully turnished.

Lake ol the Woods Cdmp for g1rls 111 me get rid of them! Contact Tio at 4684 next year!
inexpens1ve. w11: accomodat~ two

Kalama1oo. needs off1ce help, a water after Bpm. -Guess who? 
Eileen and MaryLouisefor and next

safet~ 1nstmctor. agymnastiCS instructor Available now summer Bye Bye
semester. 289-1380.

and krtchen help for th~ summer Write '66 VW in very good condition. Asking Craig to· $600. Negotiable. 289-9498. Thanks tor the T-shirt! 
Alumni Abusers.
Need REALLY b1g sound for your next
l ~ure~re Seyer 

party? Two Peavey loudspeakers with Thanks for the daisies-they make up tor 
; ,'IJ'• MdOIP ~I Brother Elec. Port. Type. Low Price Call Gus (alias Chad),
300w mixer /amp Adapts to any system all the abuse. 
I'< or •t·' ~ld II bu0~3 Randy 1062. You have body that just won't quit. We
for great sounr1 magnification. Call Bob Love. The Leman Ladies
would love to meet you in adark alley and
3634.

Archdiocese of Anchora~e alters aun1que Senior must sell refrigerator $25-Call totally go in for the kill. Tim and Rick are MaryEllen
summer job as Cook 111 St Theresa's Pete 7820 mere boys compared to you. We very was a riot! for
4 Bedroom house for rent th1s summer. Gymnastics Thanks 
summer camp for 9·14 yr aids. June willingly give our vote to you, you sexy
Semi-furnished Cheap. Close to campus , everything'
24th to August 4th. Financial rewards. Harris tweed sports jacket. Size 38-40. thing.
on Francis St. Call 8847. 8842.

great travel opportunities. As new. Original price $120.00 Sale Flusette, Sexe, & Dancer Matt.
Call Bro. John McMuldren: weekdays price $40.00 or nearest offer. Phone
Room. house privledges in large house on Hey, only three years left. You'll do
233-6138 or evenings 282-2193. 232-0743. Sue,
river. 10 minutes from campus. 288-3095 great. Have loads of fun'
Good luck on finals. I hope that it's above
after 5. · • Love Ya. Cath
Michiana LUNG RUN needs many volun­End of semester sale stereo components 40 degrees in Milwaukee by the time teers to act as water stat1on attendants, lowest prices anywhere ail major brands you're done. 
Barb Lach,

guides. timers. refreshment attendants, available all full guaranteed call Scott at Tony You're a Dream come true'marshalls and fimsh shute workers. The 283-6757.
Wanted 
A.T.S.

RACE will be June 9th. Howard Park, Gus-to the most desirable Mr. Hyde on South Bend. To help out. more info, call Avanti: small size refridgerator. Like campus. Your ever so suave manner and 
Caren Craine independent people needed for Sales new. Asking $70 Call 4574. enticing good looks have captured my This Is it kid-you're last personal for the
287-2321. SUMMER WORK OFFICE: vote. 
year. Thanks for everything!
The FRONTIER APOSTOLATE volunteer Work tor the summer. Acharming Cape Cod with enclosed front The Hard to get Girl with Never ending 
program offers aoption to you for year-off REFLECTIVE ARTS sells bar and old­porch, Northshore neighborhood, bright energy 1'd like to wish all my friends on theor post-grad work. A representative from fashioned art mirrors by using the modern kitchen, living room with fire­fourth and fifth floors of Regina North a
the missionary diocese of Prince George. old-time street vendor approach and we place, dining room, two large bedrooms Suzy Leyes swims In syrup.British Columbia will be on St. Mary's sell directly to stores. Exceptional for upstairs. remodelled bath, private back­OXOXOX happy summer and I am looking forward 
Campus. Saturday and Sunday, May enthusiastic people. Call Cra1g Imler at to seeing all of you next year:
yard, one car garage. maintenance free 
Cathy 0, Ceil, Sue A . Sue K., Leslie.
12th and 13th. Cali 7308 for information. 277-4005 tor more infor. 
exterior. Please call 7308 or 287-1972. Ellen: 
Julie. Mary. Anita. MJ. JaneS., Jan6 F..
reading materials. 
Thanks a lot! I know my gesture of
Wanted: If you are a university of Betsy. Jill and Cathy C.
Advent Speakers Great Condition 7 Daisies probably meant nothing to you."
Rochester. NY truck Michigan bound graduate student seek­To those of you who are traveling abroad
months old Call Bill 1520. but I think at least aphone call is in order.
Call Mike at 1100. ing apartment-mate for commg year next year: Cathr M.. Cathy K.. Terri,
jcp

please call Jackie at SMC 4562. and Claudine, 1'1 look forward to seeing
For Sale: Green and Yellow Shag rug all of you In 1112 years.
Good condition 12 X 24 Call 41-4631. To the IND. who "Liberated" my yellow
Need two male housemates to share nice And finally aspec1ai thank you to Lisa tor
Jansport back pack from the rock on Fri.
house. Cars useful call 289-9498. agreat year. (and all the above people).
Lost&Found 
4/27---Keep the pack and calculator, but Good Luck on your finals.
please deposit the books and notes at the
Lost: At Irish Wake. One favorite brown Wanted: Person(s) to rent 1or 2bedroom PUTT
Rock or South Dining HaiL
Tickets
sweater with asuede front. PLEASE call apartment at Campus View tor Fall '79 P.S. Special note to Cathy M., Julie and Sue 7f!J7 or return to Lc, & Found. only. Call Mike at 234-3574 after 6:00 expecially Lisa
OOOH THE DOPETROTTERS!! 
Phi!lies are number 1!!

pm. Need Desperately 6 Graduation tickets OOOH THE METS!l
Lost: 25yr. old NO jacket worn by my for family. Call Chris 288-8021. 
OOOH NEW JERSEY!!!
father. Blue cotton jacket with yellow N D Addressers Wanted Immediately! Work HEY JUNIORS! (SMC-ND) emblem. Name tag M. Root in lining. at home--no experience necessary--excel­I need graduation tickets will pay money! 
Deal of the Decade complete. See the
Call 8276 if found. lent pay. Write American Service. 8350 Call 3668. COME AND SPRING INTO '80 WITH
shaving of Fr. Dan Jenky. Where? in
Park Lane, Suite 127. Dallas, TX 75231. THE CLASS PICNIC. WED., MAY 2nd.
front of Dillon When? Wed., May 2,
Lost: Keychain with SMC ID. Desperate­Desperately need 2Graduation Tix-Will SMC CLUBHOUSE s-10 pm. ENOUGH
High noon

ly needed. if found call Rhonda 41-4449. Wanted: Used Typewriter Call Mary pay $$$. Cali 3673. BEER AND HOT DOGS FOR ALL 21 287-6659, early evenings. J.D.'s ARE A MUST.
Senior Alumni Picnic May 5th, 11-1 at
Lost: Gold class ring St. Thomas Aquinas Need 1graduation ticket for Brother-In • 
Stepan Center. Beer n Brauts for the
High School. Call Mary Ellen 272-5423. law to be. Call Don 288-8021. Lisa, Jeannine and Jul
Overseas Jobs -Summer/year round. class of '79. 
You guys didn't think I'd forget you do
Europe, S. America, Australia. Asia, Etc.

Lost: 1 pendelton hat -size: medium You? Have fun this summer and Jul I'm
All Fields, $500-$1200 monthly_ Martha, sometime see again.
color: beige sure you'll us
Expenses gald. Sightseeing. Free info -"It could only happen to us." Happy
lost at Senior Bar or vicinity Thursday Personals You're not that fortunate.
Write: IJ Box 52-14, Corona Del Mar, Birthday
night. Call Dick 8544 or Mark 8540 -Trlsh.
CA 92625. Love Sandy 
-
Lost: A blue racketball racket lost before Ceil
Ride needed to Maine or Boston area Bye, Bye 3North Main Holy Cross. Hope Dave DePaola,
Easter Break on either ND-SMC campus. Thanks for everything this year. Typing
Mar 14th -share driving and expenses. your summer is fun' Hi! Good Luck. Hope everything turns
Please call 4606 with you in the afternoons makes the day
Cal Carol 1288 Trish out the way you want them too. 
go faster. Have a nice summer Found: NO Class ring In Library Aud. Trlsh
Need ride to Exit 7 (Sandusky) of Ohio Mimi Tortorelli Martha
Call Irene to identify 6733. 
Turnpike Fri. May 4. Will share See We did get you In the paper! The only girl to ever get burnt...by expenses Jeff 1624. Jul popcorn. Hope these 20 yrs. have finally Tuesday Night Staff,
Lost: One pair glasses. Near ballfield at 
taught you to stay away from L H.'s, Sorry I was such acrab all night--sorry
Angela and Eddy. Call 289-3187. 
Need ride to Madison this weekend. Call Hey Juniors! SMC-ND hang on to your keys and behave at the 1forgot the beer. too. Hope I get to work
Mike 1750. Come and Spring Into '80 with the class bars. Maybe this year will bring you a
Lost: Dunlop Maxiply tennis racquet with all of you next year. Have great
picnic. Wed. May 2SMC clubhouse 5-10 "normal name." Happy Birthday!
white Wilson head cover at Angela 
Male to share large, beautiful house on pm. Enough Beer and Hot dogs tor ail. Love, the Girls summer vacations!
Athletic Fac., any information to its 
river. 10 minutes from schooL 288-3095 21 ID's are a must. P.S. Where do those bubbles go?? Beth
whereabouts call Teresa 4722. 
after 5. 



r------­
t ~­
sRorts 
Bookstore awards announced 

Laitnbeer, Kelly take top honors 
by Mark Perry Sports Editor 
Although The Chumps and The Butchers mer in the finals of the annual Bookstore tour­nament, the two teams that they defeated in the semifinals featured the two big award winners from this year's tour­ney. Bookstore Commissioner Leo Latz announced the win­ners yesterday, selected by the Bookstore Committee. 
Hill Laimbeer, who helped lead John Paul I Pope of the Month Club to their semifinal berth, was named Most Valu­able Player, and Jim Kelly, the smallest player on Larry's Laundrymen was selected as Mr. Bookstore, the outstanding non-varsity player in the-tour­nament. 
Laimbeer was the most dom­inating player in the Bookstore tournament, as he hit on 73 shots and grabbed 103 rebounds, both highs for 11 ,, tournament. Laimbeet shot at a . 598 clip from the field, averag­ing 9. 1 per game and grabbing 13 rebounds per contest. 
Kelly, a 5-8 senior from Richmond, VA, and Alumni Hall, was outstanding through­out the tournament, amazmg the crowd with his accurate outside shooting. Kelly aver­aged 7.4 baskets per game for Larry's Laundrymen, and helped lead the team to their upset win over Strappamas­quon in the quarter-finals and their near defeat of the Chumps in the semis. Kelly hit on 52 of 96 shots for the tourney, a .542 field goal percentage. 
Although he was not able to play in the final game because of an ankle injury, Dave Huff­man of The Butchers became the first player tn Bookstore 

I'll miss you, Notre Dame 
For a freshman at Notre Dame, a football 
defeat can be as devastating as a "Dear John" 
letter from his HTH. All activity on campus 

seemingly comes to a halt, and the first year Mike 
.ffildent often goes into mourning by drinking 
himself into oblivion. 

Henry
Seniors practice this ritual after a loss, too, 


but by this time it's out of habit--while the rhought of the Fighting Irish taking their lumps is distasteful, our sophistication and realism allows us to place an athletic contest in the proper perspective, simply a part of a much larger game we are engaged in at du Lac. 
Fellow "potencial graduates" (I think that's what we're classified as), the rush of nostalgia we will experience at this year's USC game will be overwhelming. That weekend will rekindle memories of the friendships, rivalries, and exciting ballgames, memories that are already so powerful that we felt cold shivers down our spine upon our receipt of the 1979 Dome yesterday. 
Before this article becomes tear-stained, let's ~hare some Irish sporting triumphs (and one tragedy) of the past four annums. Forgive me for leaving out such games as last year's super comeback against Marquette, and the agony and the ecstacy of this season's USC and Houston grid battles. The following list, though, is composed of five Notre Dame sporting events that have been firmly impressed upon my mind for all time. 
1) NBC requests that the game be pushed

----back to the end of the season, and on the eve of the clash with the undefeated Dons, Digger Phelps whips a huge pep rally assemblage into a frenzy by giving them a battle cry for the encounter: "29! and 1! 29! and 1!" One wonders, though, after watching massive Bill Cartwright, a mean James Hardy, and a smooth Chubby Cox perform in practice, if even Phelps' legerdemain can rescue the Irish. A Dave Batton jumper at the buzzer gives Notre Dame a 
All-Bookstore team-
First Team Tim McQuiston Paul Flood 
, Kevin Dix Tom McLaughlin Bill Stapleton 
Second Team Dan Short Jim Dolezal Terry Aselage Tom Lange Todd Sladek 
Third Team Mike Miller Dick Hughes Larry Chun Mike Murphy Chip Bolland 
All-Devine Team Greg Knafelc Pete Holohan Rusty Lisch Lou Pagley Kevin Hart Kris Haines 
annals to win the Golden Hatch­ett Award for two consecutive years. 
The other individual honor, the Hoosier Award, went to Tom Lange of The E Street Band. Lange threw up 74 shots in only five games, averaging nearly 15 attempts per contest. 
The best team name honors went to jim jones and ''Oh, I Could Have Had a V-8. '' 
Although his team did not make it to the "Sweet Sixteen," Bill Stapleton of The Future World Leaders was one of five players honored on the first team All-Bookstore. 
44-42 halftime advantage, and the crowd reaction almost shakes the ACC to its founda­tions; the second half is all Irish, and Dick Enberg, in awe of it all, names the ND student body the MVP of the stunning upset. 
2) It looks to be another "Dismal" season for the football team, and it has become customary to see a harried Devine hung in effigy. USC looms as a menancing challenge to the dream of a great finish, but an inspiration from some­where ~uides Dan: four green-dad behemoths, recogmzable after some confusion as ca_ptains Browner, Fry, Eurick, and Orsini, exit from a Trojan horse that has been led onto the field. When the rest of the squad explodes from the tunnel, it is as if the 59,075 present had just winessed the Second Coming. The outcome is never in doubt as a succession of wonderful Irish feats paves the road to a gratifying national championship. 
3) Bear Bryant may have other ideas, but to Longhorn and Irish backers, there's no question that the shootout in Dallas is for all the marbles. · The main problem for Notre Dame is how to rope the big Heisman Trophy powerhouse, Earl Campbell; Ross, Willie and the boys see nicely to that, while the Irish offensive line blows open holes that resemble gaping canyons to \'agas Ferguson, Jerome Heavens and Terry Eurick, who scores twice. As the joyous sons of Notre Dame cavort on the Astroturf afterwards, they look forward to that night's adventures and the AP and UPI balloting the next day. 
4) "It was the wildest finish I've ever seen. [Continued on page 15] 
PPG  
DAGS  6.0  
P.F. & the FLYERS  6.7  
LATER, W.E.B.  5.3  
CHUMPS  5.3  
FUTURE WORLD LEADERS  8.7  
CHUMPS  4.R  
LATER, W.E.B.  5. 1  
DAGS  5.2  
E STREET BAND  5.0  
STEVIE WONDER ...  6.2  
E STREET BAND  4.0  
NUMNUTS  4.8  
LARRY'S LAUNDRYMEN  4.7  
OFF  5.6  
PIT CREW  8.2  
STRAPPAMASQUON .. .  7.6  
STRAPP AMASQUON .. .  7.5  
CHUMPS  5.9  
P.F. & the FLYERS  4.3  
BUTCHERS  4.0  
JOHN PAUL I...  5.9  


Irish netters gain revenge in Kalamazoo 
by Michael Ortman Sports Writer 
Ahh revenge! Sweet revenge! 
That's what Notre Dame's tennis team got yesterday as they scored an upset over West~rn Michigan. 
Last year the Broncos clob­bered the Irish on Notre Dame's home courts, 8-1. Yesterday the Irish netters travelled to Kalamazoo, and 

came home with a stunning )-4 team Notre Dame Invitational. victory. In the number-five singles, "We really weren't sure how freshman Tom Hartzell won his 
well we'd do,'' said Irish cap­eleventh straight match and his tain Mark Trueblood, "espec­fourteenth out of fifteen ially after last year's loss. But squeeking fast Western certain people came through gao's Pau Walker, 4-6, with some really clutch wins.'' 7-6. In the third and final set, 
Notre Dame's number-one Hartzell won the tie-breaker by singles player, Mark Hoyer, just one point. 
pulled off a thrilling upset over In doubles, the team of Hoyer Mike Rose, 6-2, 4-6, 6-4. Last and Carlton Harri.; dinched the fall Rose took first place in the win for the Irish bv defeating number-one spot of the six-[ContmuPd Lit:/' tge 14] 
Notre Dame 5, Western MichiRan 4 
Singles: Walker, 4-6, 6-4, 7-6. 
No. 6--Tom Robison def. Scott Emig, 6-2, No. 1--Mark Hoyer (NO) det. Mike Rose, 6-4. 6-2, 4-6, 6-4. Doubles: No. 2--Steve Winsor (WM) def. Carlton 
Harris, 6-2, 6-4.  No. 1--Hoyer/Harris (NO) def. Winsor/  
No. 3--Herb Hopwood (NO) def.  Scott  Spoerl, 6-4. 6-4.  
Spoerl, 6-4, 6-2.  No.  2--Tanyard/Rose (WM)  def.  Hop­ 
No.  4--Jim  lanyard (WM)  def.  Mark  wbod/Trueblood, 6-7, 7-5, 6-4.  
Trueblood, 6-2, 6-0. No. 5--Tom Hartzell  (NO)  def.  Paul  No. 3--Walker/Emig (WM) def. Hartzell/ Bill Pratt, 6-3.  

Track team faces Indiana St. 
by Mark Perry Sports Editor 
Hoping to rebound from a disasterous performance at the Drake Relays last weekend, the Notre Dame track team will entertain the Sycamores from Indiana State on Saturday at Cartier Field. 
"It will be interesting to see if the team can be up for this meet after being so flat over the weekend,'' Irish Head Coach Joe Piane speculated. "I think that they have enough pride in themselves to bounce back.'' 
The Jr,o:;11 demolished the Sycamores m their earlier out­door meeting, but assistant coach Ed Kelly said that ISU looked like a different team at the Ball State Relays on Satur­day. "They looked much improved," Kelly said, "and their sprinters are really run­ning well.'' 
Kelly traveled to Ball State" with a portion of the team, and the Irish came home with six places in the meet, although none higher than third. 

Mike Maney was the top finisher for Notre Dame, as he placed third in the 3000-meter steeplechase. All the other Irish placers came in fourth. Tom Bernier turned in the most impressive performance of the trip, as he ran 56.5 to place in the 400 meter intermediate hurdles. 
Also placing fourth in the individual events were J e Anderson (10.75 seconds in the 100 meter dash) and Mike Noland (14 feet, six inches in the pole vault.) 
In the relays, the team of Anderson, Ken Lynch, Kris Haines, and Jacques Eady grabbed fourth in the 400 meter relay (43.5 seconds) and Eady, Jim Christian, Rick Rogers, and Lynch notched a fourth in the 1600 meter relay (3:20.0). 
Disaster was the only way to describe Notre Dame's perfor­mance at the Drake Relays, as the Irish sent fourteen runners to that meet and failed to come 
[Continued on page 14] 




