
'\\ 
I 
\ 
. Rust Never Sleeps, page _7 
Vol. XIV, No. 5 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
After battering Bahamas, 
David heads toward Florida 
NASSAU BAHAMAS (AP) -Hurricane David, {licking up speed 
and strength after cutting a swath of devastation thro~gh t~e 
Caribbean, battered the Bahamas yesterday and then aimed Its 
fury directly at populous south Florida. · 
The storm's death toll rose to more than 640 with the report of400 
killed in a flooded church and school in the Dominican Republic. 
Its path last night put it on a collision course with Miami by 
today's predawn hours. 
florida Gov. Bob Graham, acting under a state law that broadly 
expands the governor's powers in such situations, declared a 
"disaster evergencylate yesterday. -. 
Earlier yesterday, he had ordered the mandatory evacuauon of 
50,000 residents of low-lying areas of the state's four 
southeasternmost counties -Monroe, Dade, Broward and Palm 
Beach -and sent National Guardsmen to help. Those counties, 
which include congested Miami, Fort Lauderdale and West Palm 
Beach, have 2. 5 million residents. -The coastal area of Nassau, island capital of the Bahamas was all 
but deserted Sunday evening after residents fled inland. 
David's high winds felled trees in several areas of Nassau, 
buffeted docked boats and sent 20-foot walls of water shooting up 
along the shoreline. An upper-class neigh~orhood on Nass~u's 
east side was blacked out by power outages 10 the early evemng. 
Residents of southern Florida were lilracing for the area's first 
hurricane since Betsy hit in 1965. Authorities estimated 80 
percent-of the region's residents had never been through a 
hurricane. 
At 10 p.m. EDT, David's center was !~cared near latitudt; 24_.7 
north, longitude 79.4 west or about 135 miles sout~east of MI<l:mr:-­
lt was moving northwest at 12 mph to 1')mph. Highest sustau:ed 
winds increased to 95 mph, and gales extended outward 150 miles 
north of the center and 100 miles to the south. The National 
Weather Service said a further increase 1n strength was likely 
during the night. 
Hurricane warnings were issues for a 320-mile stretch from 
Marathon in the central Florida Keys to Cape Canaveral. A 
hurricane watch was extended north to Jacksonville, near the 
Georgia border. 
"We expect it will have winds· between ~5 mile~ _per hour and 10,0 miles per hour when it makes landfall (10 Flonda), but we d?n t have a firm feel yet of where that will be," said forecaster J Ime 
Gross. · d 
'hurricane Frederic, which became the Atlantic season's thir. hurricane on Saturday, was following David's trail. At 9. p.m. 1t was near latitude 17.0 north and longitude 60.6 west, 80 J?lle~ east of Antigua or about 280 miles east ofSanJuan, Puerto Rico, 10 the northern L~eward Islands. It was traveling west-northwest at 18 mph with winds up to 75 mph. 
[continued on page 3] 
Jones. According to Jones, the rea­sons for the change are simple
Pope hopesfirst Irish visit and l'racti~al. "Thc;re arose a confliCt with schdulmg the-fi­nals this year because we have so many classes now. Either we

will enhance reconciliation 
DUBLIN* IRELAND (AP). ­PopeJohn Paul II will visit sites steeped in religion and folklore on the first papal trip ever to Ireland, and he said he hopes the vi~it will enhance ''reconcil­iation! and mutual understand­ing" Mthe troubled island. 
In C~stel Gandolfo, the papal summer/ residence, the pope issued a statement assailing the ongoing sectarian violence in Northern Ireland. He had considered visiting that British province but changed his mind because ~f the bombing deaths last Monday of Lord Louis Mounbatten in Ireland and 18 British soldiers in · Northern Ireland. Thci. outlawed Irish Republican Army claim<7d re­sponsibility for tile bomb10gs. 
Pope John Paul called the killings "an insult to· human dignity," and said "G@9.·wants that my . .. visit. to treland contribute to the tnumph of the spirit of reconciliation and mutual understanding. '' 
The island nation Is divided between the mostly Roman Catholic Irish Republic and Northern Ireland with a Protes­tant majority. The IRA has been fighting for 10 years to end Bntish rule in Northern Ireland and unite the province with the republic. . 
The pope will arrive here Setp. 29 and leave for the United States Oct. 1. On his first day he is scheduled to celebrate Mass in Dublin's Phoenix Park and officials say they expect about a million people -one­third of the Irish Republic's population -will attend. 
Because the republic is about 95 percent Catholic, the pop<? is expected to get a recepuon comparable to the one given him last June when he went home to his native Poland, also a {>tedominantly Catholic nation. 
In the park are residences of would have had to extend finals 
the president of Ireland, the week an extra day and students U.S. ambassador and the papal would get out later, or we could nuncil, the Va'tican's local put some finals on Sunday.''
representative. The last will be Therefore, the main reasons for the base for Pope John Paul II the change are to let studentsduring his Irish visit. 
out ealier and to spread theThe evening of his arrival the finals out so students don'tpontiff will go by helicopter 30 have three and four finals onmiles north of Dublin to the city one day, she saids.
of Drogheda to visit the shrine However, not only are finalsof St. Oliver Plunket, a manyr on Sunday this year, but finalsof the Catholic Church. 
week does not start until Satur­On Sunday, Sipt. 30, the pope day. It began on Friday inis expected to visit a Dublin years past.
parish. 
Even though there are some
The afternoon of Sept. 30, the finals Sunday, there arepope is to fly 160 miles west to none 
Sunday morning. Jones noted,Galway, considered the most ''Sunday morning is sacred soIrish of cities. in fact, in some we did not put any finals then. 
pans of the surrounding coun­This way student can still go totryside, only Gaelic is spoken.$ 
Mass. However, I don't seeThe visit reaches a climax that anything contradictory aboutSunday evening with a pil­having finals Sunday afternoongrimage to the Marian shrine at and evening even though this is Knock, in themiddle of the a Catholic university. Studentsbleak and misty Mayo country­would be studying on Sundayside about 150 miles northwest anyway."
of Dublin. 

Floridians 

prepare for 
David's force 
MIAMI (AP) -f'istfights broke out in hardware stores, long lines formed at gas stations and thousands fled their homes yesterday as residents of Flori­da's coastal lowlands braced for dawn and the arrival of Hurri­cane David. 
But many stayed put and there were wven a few hardy surfers 
-out to enjoy large waves that normally are a rarity along Florida's beaches. With winds building to near 100 mph as it churned across the warm, open Florida Straits, David's center was expected to reach Florida's southeast coast in the predawn hours. The potential target area included populous Miami, Mi-_ ami Beach. Fort Lauderdale 
and West Palm Beach. 
Governor Bob Graham or­dered evacuation of vulnerable low-lying areas in four counties from the lower Florida Keys north to near the wealthy enclave of Palm Beach. 
And Graham invoked an emer­gency disaster law giving him extraordinary powers including the authority to confiscate pri­
[continued on page 5' 


ND-SMC schedule Sunda.Y exarns 
by]anet Rigaux examinations on Sunday. The schedule change was made byFor· the first time in recent the Dean of Administration, years Notre DaiiJe and St. Leo Corbaci, and the Assistant Mary's students will have final Provost, Sister John Miriam 
Neither the Provost, Dr. Timothy O'Meara, or the Regis­trar, Rick Sullivan, were aware of the change in the exam schedule nor did they know the reason for it. 
Many faculty members also did not know of the change. Dino Cervigni, professor of modern and classical lan­guages, summed up most of the 

Sunday morning is sacred so we did not put any finals then. 
faculty's feelings about the change. "There may be goocl reasons behind the administra­stration' s decision to have Sun­day finals," he said, "but think greater effort should be made to keep Sunday free. It'!' the day of rest.'' 
Student reaction to the chang<' was varied. According tc Thomas Hill strom, a sopho more en~ineering major, "I think havmg Sunday finals is Cl good idea. You'd be studyinr anyway so why not have ~ final.'' 
On the other_ hand, accordin~ to Cathy Malia, a sophomon business_major, ''I'm mad tha I have a final on Sunday. don't think that it is fair." 





News in brief 

Monday, September 3, 1979-page 2 
Religious delegation to visit from China 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The first religious delegation from the' Peoples Republic of China to visit the United States in more than 30 years will arrive in Indianapolis later this month. The Christian Church (Disciples of Christ( , which has international headquarters here, will be the official host of the four-member delegation during the Sept. 17-18 visit. The delegation will arrive in Indianapolis_following t~e W'_orld Conference on Religion and Peace at Pnnceton Umverstty. 


Burglary investigation turns into near riot 
SHELBYVILLE • IN (AP) -Seven persons were arrested early yesterday when a burglary investigation here turned into a small-scale riot. Police were investigating a briead-in at a downtown upholstery store when about 100 curious onlookers began filtering out of local taverns. Two men were spotted insice the burglarized store and police called for reinforcements -including the ] ohnson County sheriffs canine unit. About 13 policemen tried to break up the crowd which had gathered to watch the activity. As one burglary suspect was arrested, the police and their dogs soon were battling several spectators. A numver of persona were bitten -two were hospitalized. The second burglary suspect seen in the store apparently got away, police said. 
Westinghouse workers ratify new contract 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -About 18,000 Westinghouse Ele~tric Corp. employees, off the job for seven weeks, ov~rwhelmt~g­ly ratified a new three-year pact yesterday unton offictals said. Fewer than 1,000 rank and file memvers of the International Union of Electrical Workers voted against the settlement , tentatively agreed. to Thurs?ay following .long and sometimes bitter negotiations. Chtef IUE negottat?r Vincent Vingle called ths new c~>nt~~ct '·~ go~d, sohd settlement won by a food, solid 'Stttke. At tts hetght, the strike shut down or partially affected 97 Westinghouse plants. 


Weather 
Pardy sunny today with highs near 8(>. Clear and cool tonight with lows in the mid to upper 50s. Mostly sunny tomorrow with highs again near 80. 

Monday, September 3, 1979 
10 am and 2 pm TOURS general tour of mt"moriallibrary for faculty and staff. · 
12: 1 5 pm FILM "peter ustinC?v' s lening~ad," for faculty review, sponsored by educational medta, ROOM 242 O'SHAG. 
3:30pm COMPUTER MINI-COURS~ "intro to job control language,"sponsored by the computtng center, 115 CC!'1B, free. 
7 pm MEETING inprig organizational meeting, for all interested persons, ROOM 2-D, LAFORTIJNE. 
7:30 pm FILM ''citizen kane,'' sponsored by nd I smc speech and drama department, WASHINGTON HALL. 
"· ~ ~· .. 
[continued from 3) 

community are free to involve themselves in all sorts of cam­pus activities, he said. 
"Too many people think that you sign your life away when you enter the semina.pr, but you go to the seminary to investi­gate the possibility of voca­tion," Leveille said. 
Leveille plans to make this information more accessible by producing a booklet, similar to a college bulletin, which will outline the priestly vocation. 
His job also includes traveling 
~--The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Scoop Sullivan Assitant Night Editors: John Smith & Randy Layout Staff: Mary Dumm . Editona/ Layout: ] oe Rod­riguez Features Layout: Bruce Oak­ley Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Paula Shea, Ann Gales, Mark Rust (never sleeps), Mary Beth Budd, Beth Willard, Marilyn Brod­erick, Scoop Sullivan Early Morning Typist; Mi­chele Kelleher Day Editor: Bob Bernoskie 
Ear~y Morning Copy Editor: 
Mike Lewis & Wife Ad Layout: David E. Wood, Anne Fink Photographer: Phil]ohnson 
The Observer ]USPS 598 920] Is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Sllnt Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchued for $20 per year [$10 par semester] from The Observer. P.O. box 
0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rig/llure CUIIYI<l •••••••• -•••• 



Fr. Leveille
' ' ' 

throughout the Indiana PrO-A member of the Holy Cross vince, which includes not only order for 18 years and the Indiana but also Illinois, Col-recipient of degrees in counsel­orado, Arizona, California, and · ing and c~ree~ g':lidance from Oregon. Leveille hopes to Loyola Unlv~r~tty •_n Los Angel­extend his travel time. These es and mtmstenal theology trips are used for speeches and f~om Notre. Dame, Leveille fe.els discussions with interested htmself qutte capable of gtvmg young men. advice and guidance. 
Leveille is not a newcomer to Leveille commented, "Pries~s the Notre Dame campus. He come from all walks of life. did his ·graduate studies in They are just everyday folks. theology here and has also My office is always open to acted as associate pastor of St. interested young men who seek Joseph Church in South Bend. information for guidance. This Several years ago he was a can be sought anonymously by resident of Dillon Hall. phoning 6385." 

One way may be to live within the Augustinian Fraternity. When you come to live with us, you observe and participate In our community life for several yNra before making a final commitment. You observe that we are a religious community following the charlsm of St. Augustine and "that together and with pne heart In brotherhood and spiritual friendship, we seek and worship God and that we labor In the service of the people of God." We serve In colleges, high schools, parishes, foreign missions, campus ministries, retreats, hospitals and military chaplaincies. 
WANT MORE INFORMATION? CONTACT: 
Reverend John P. Stack, O.S.A. Villanova University 
P.O. Box 338 
Villanova, PA 19085 
(215) 525-5612 

Nam••-------------------------------------
Addreeal______________~~---------------­
Clty·----------~Shlte.____..._Zip•--------
Sohool or Ooc._______-JOg••------­
.••.AboDe 

.. 


The Observer Monday, September 3, 1979 ~page 3 



Father Leveille becomes director 
by ]ana Schutt Office enters the picture. 
According to Leveille, some of 
Fr. Andre Leveille has been the most common questions named Vocations Direcotr of encountered are: How do I the Indiana Province for the know that this desire to become Holy Cross community. His a priest is genuine? Am I office offers counseling and · signing my life away when I guidance to any younf. man enter the seminary? considering a vocation m the Leveille said it is important to priesthood. emphasize that no one can 
"You'd be surprised," Lev­make this decision for another. eille notes, "how many people The dedication must be there consider a vocatin in thQapriest­and the choice must be an hood. It is one of the few things educated one he said. Leveille young people can see that has noted that many men enter the lasting value and commit­seminary but do not become ment.'' priests because they find that ''Two-thirds of college stud­some other vocation would suit 
ents today change their majors their personalities better. which seems to suggest a lack If their calling seems to be to a of ample career guidance,'' priestly vocation, he added, Leveille explains. "Young men they are able to investigate this have an added burden if their possibility for some time. with­plans lean toward priestly out total commitment. Also, vows. Often it is immpossible college students who enter the to discuss these aspirations with family and friends." 
[continued on page 2]
This is where the Vocations 
Attention .ND-SMC Students 
Scholastic magazi.ne fs holding the staff 
organizational meeti.ng Monday, 9/3 
at 6:30 pm in the Scho•astic office in 
. . 
LaFortune. Writers, artists, and layout workers are needed. Join in Ill


Fr. Andre Leveille 
•• • . David 

[continued from page 1] 
Florida's first hurricane-related death came during rough weather ahead of the storm on Key Largo in the upper Keys. Police said Fred Nicholson, 55, of Miami, was electrocuted Sunday when the mast ofhis sailboat snagged an electrical wire as he tried to tow the boat out of danger. 
With the more than 600 reported deaths, David has become one of the siz deadliest Atlantic-area hurricanes of this century and the worsh since hurricane Fifi killed 2000 in 1974. 
As resedents of the Bahamas took cover, officials said tourists were "doing what they normally do on a rainy weekend." Gambling casinos on Paradise Island were jamme. "There's not an open seat in the game, said Jimmy Lesinksi, in charge of black jack at Britania Beach. · 
Communications with the Bahamian Out Islands were spotty and government officers met with Prime Minister Lynden Pindling to decide whether to order residents of abandon thier homes and go to government shelters. 
National Hurricane Center Director Neil Frank in Miami said David was expected to gain strength yesterday. "When -it gets 
[continued on page 4] 


Lite Nite Special 
Tuesday, Sept. 4 
9 pm-3 am 
ffiiller Lite 



6sc· a can 


"THE GRAND DECATHLON" 
October 4, NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 8:00PM $9.00/8.00 Reserved 
TICKETS ON SALE WED. SEPT. 5 
Available at The A.C.C. Box Office. Robertson's in South Bend & Elkhart, St. Joseph Bank, Main Office, 1st Bank, Mai(l Office, the Elkhart Truth and the following River City Review Ticket Outlets: Suspended Chord in Elkhart, South Bound Records in Ft. Wayne, The Record Co. in Plymouth, Fanta-( Records in Benton Harbor, and River City Records on Western Ave., U.S. 31 North, Mishawaka Ave. in South Bend, and Dunes Plaza in Michigan City. 
----.... .......... . ' . ...-. '•
~-~-·--·-­
• 


These students were only a few ofthe revelers at saturday night's Polish Wedding held in Stepan Center. fphofo by P6tl johnson] 

The Observer 
******+*****
************ 
~~ ~******•**** 

~~ ************ 
c-\ 6 from ch,icaao 



~~ ***********'*** 
,c_O Snt., Sept. 8th 
C:,~ at 8:00 pm 
0' Laughlin Auditorium J2.00 ND/SmC students Qnd faculty J3.00 Gen. Adm. 
*********************•**********

Tickets on sale at the dining halls Sept. 3-6 . or at the. O'Laughlln ticket office starting Aug 30th. 
**************+*******************' 

welcome back students from 
. . 


-IOCCOS" -­
• hairstyling shop womens and mens hairstyling 

new stylist jackie 531 n. michigan 233-4957 

-


----------------------~~----------------------------------------------------------~------~-----------------------------------------------· 
The Observer Monday, September 3, 1979-page 5 

• 
. Prepare Library 
[continued from page 1) 
vate property if necessary. He told the National Guard to assist in evacuation or control­ing looting. 
"Total panic," said James Saunders, co-owner of a Miami hardware store where all 24 aisles were jammed. ''They were animals. They tore us apart.'' 




Women's cross-country to meet 
if you are interested in joining the Cross-country team, or if you would like to find out more about it before doing so, please come to the Notre Dame women's Cross-country meet­int Tuesday at 7:00 p.m. in Farley Lounge. Interested per­sons unable to attend should call Ann at 7994. 
Second City to perform 
The comedy troupe second city will make its annual appearance at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium on Saturday, Sept. 8, at 8 p.m. 
General admission price is $3. All seats are unreserved and may be obtained by calling 284-5787 or by going directly to the Office in Moreau Hall. 
to o_ffer _free tours 
The staff of Memorial Library is offering tours for the stu­dents and faculty. The thirty minute tour will acquaint stu­dents and faculty with the library facilities, resources, and skills. 
The tours will meet in the Library concourse at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. on September 3, 5, 6, 10, 11, 12, and 13. 
Lobby group 


elects Gilligan 
J6hn J. Gilligan, White pro­fessor of law at Notre Dame, has been elected chairman of the governing board of New Directions, a citizens' lobby located in Washington, D.C. 
Gilligan, former governor of Ohio and head of the Agency for International Development, will be invilved in setting goals for the organization, which attempts to influence national policies toward population, poverty, environmental deteri­oration, the arms race and military confrontation, deplet­ion of resources, and human rights. Notre Dame's presi­dent, Fr. Theodore M. Hes­burgh, was one of its founders. 


Klan meets to reaffirm 
\ 


white supremacy in South 
STONE MOUNTAIN Ga.· (AP) -A group of Ku Klux Klan members and their supporters gathered beneath the chiseled faces of Confederate heroes at Stone Mountain this weekend to reaffirm a white supremacist message for the 48th straight year. 
The crowd included young people in their teens and early 20s, including four Jefferson­ville, Inc., high school students who said they had a Klan ''youth unit'' in their high school. 
The rally at the historic moun­tain Saturday was marked by fiery speeches on the disinte­gration of "white America," casual socializing and the tradi­tional burning of gasoline­soaked wooden crosses. 

Some 300 Klan members, their families and . inquisitive onlookers roamed through the pasture where the rally was held, but no incidents were reported. 
KKK members staged the rally at the foot of Stone Mountain, a historic granite monolith near Atlanta with a dt:ep-relief carving incorpora­tif!g the figures of Gen. Robert E.. Lee, Gen. StonewallJackson and Jefferson Davis, the presi­dent of the Confederacy. 
The gathering was sponsored by Decatur attorney James R. Venable, whose family has owned the pasture on the mountain's slope for genera­
. .. . '·· . 
tions. Venable claims his na­
tional Knights of the Ku Klux 
Klan is the biggest and oldest 
of more that 40 different Klan 
groups in the country. 
''White people are fed up with the blacks taking over every­thing," said a youth at the scene who refused to give his name. "There's a black stu­dent union in my school. When I asked for a white student union, I was called a racist; a fascist and Nazi; and everything else. " · Mary Stuart, a Columbus, Ga., electric contractor who is a member of a metairie, La., Klan organizat~on, said interest in the Klan has been renewed because whites ''today are in the plight that blacks were in the mid-60s. 
They had job discrimination then -what whites are going through now. And in the black schools you had uneducated black teachers teaching blacks. Now you have uneducated blacks teaching blacks and whites." 
That theme has echoed by Benable, 'imperial Wizard of the National Knight of the KKK. A cheer went through the crowd when he said the nation has become increasingly "communized, socialized and niggerized." 
Two blacks who appeared at the beginning of the rally made 
[continued on page IOJ 

I' ND/SffiC stu~~t chec~s accep~d for. 1 ..••...·.. _. ·· ··J20.qQ.·~f?Y<tf p"rc;bQJe. a~bunt 
.... Open 10 to JQ, 7da.Qs a wee,k I Open o:q:'.~~~or ~~~ untUl~:OO pll\1
i Riyer CitY· Records 
I 50970 U.S. 31 Notth ..
• 
l;:;k 






t.·~------~-·-·· 
, 
... 
Monday, September 3, 1979-page 6





Features 
I'm Not My Brother's Keeper 
The great danger of college is that 
1 education will be seen (and designed) principally as a preparation for making a living instead of a preparation for life. It can function for gain, not for 
I growth. 
In many universities, for example, the humanities don't humanize, they neutralize. Students are asked the wrong question--"When you grad­uate, what are you going to do?''·· whereas the real question is: "When 
! you graduate, what are you going to be?'' The chief concern should be what kind of person you will become. The temptation is to reward stu­dents for successfully acquiring infor­
1 mation which will enable them to fit I into our present system, with all its faults and superficiality; its consumer frenzy and materialistic self-serving. 
On the contrary, what is all our learning for if it is not to render service to persons, whether that be under­stood in the most private and intimate relations, between friends, lovers and family, or in the public and insti­tutional relations of responding to the needs for justice and peace? 
James Forest, of the Fellowship of Reconciliation, says it beautifully: ''The university is to be a place for helping yound people mature into vulnerability." To "mature into vulnerability'' means that the univer­sity becomes a place where truth as well as reality ts sought. It is the experience of causing the eyes to see and the ears to hear--what is every­where around us--the cries of the poor and the oppressed ... and to see and to hear in such a way that we become vulnerable to them and their needs. 
Otherwise, an epigram of Bob Dylan can become frighteningly real: ''The only differeoce between schools and old age homes is more people die in schools.'' 
The trouble with so many colleges is 
that they indulge the nesting instinct 
by building very protected little 
communities inside the great walls. A 
truly educated person is one who has 
no walls between herself and the 
sufferins of the world. And that 
doesn't JUSt mean the world way "out 
there.'' 
Let's propose a few situations. You are at a party. Someone, obviously smashed, is about to drive a earful of friends home. Do you let him go without saying a word, without doing anything? There is a girl you know who lets it be known that she is having an abortion. Or it comes to your attention that a friend is on drugs. Or you become aware that a student on you floor is starting to isolate herself from all other people. 
We frequently find ourselves m situations like these, delicate and difficult ones. Do we have the obligation to speak up? To intervene? There is a much neglected (because very burdensome) duty Christians have. It is to become vulnerable to the needs of these persons, who are indeed oppressed .. 
The trouble is that in our culture we have inherited· some very strong maxtms: "Mind you own business"; "live and let live"; "whatever some­one does, that's his problem, don't meddle.'' A lot of us have followed these maxims and others like them so completely that we have developed a deep instinct against any form of ~·orrrection ofpeers, colleagues, assoc­tates. 

And such maxims do have their place. Minding one's own business is frequently the right thing to do. Who wants to become a nosy busybody? The image of the stool pigeon, the fink, the tattletale hardly stands high in our American way of life. 
And yet there is that drunk. driver .. There ts that girl going off to the abortionist; the friend on drugs; the 
student cutting  herself off from  all  
other p(:rsons.  
Perhaps  we  are  perplexed  not  so  

much by the plain call of duty as by the method by which we are to fulftll it. In the situations mentioned, it seems the least we can do, and ought to do, is to approach the persons in question drrecdy, to show them our very serious concern about the harm they are doing, or can do, to themselves and/or to others. 
I know a student who ap{>roached an acquaintance who had drifted into a situation that was beginning to harm him deeplly. He said to him: "Tom, please believe me when I say that I'm doing this because I really care for you very mttch. I'm truly saddened by what I see happening to you. I'm not trying to chew you out or admQnish you; I'm not angry or irritated or accusatory. How could I be; I do crazy things myself, and need others to care enough to point it out. So I've come to try, the best I can, to say that I care fo you; I want to help. Can't we talk about it?" 
That'a one of the most loving actions I've witnessed in my many years working with college students. That student had truly matured into vulner­
b_v Fr. Bill Toohe_v 
ability: he opened himself to possible scorn, ridicule and rejection. He was willing to gamble with vulnerability; to chance the pain that might result. As a pers~n who cared, "he could not do 
otherwtse. 
Have you · noticed how often we accept things unquestioningly? Take the famous scene between God and Cain. He is asked, "Where is your brother, Abel?" Cain sneeringly dismissed his relationship to his brother: "Am I my brother's keeper?" Without much thought, we figur-ed perhaps that Cain's problem was not recognizing that, indeed, he was his brother's keeper. I was jolted from my own uncritical acceptance of this by a remark William Sloane Coffin once made: "Am I my brother's 
keeper? Hell, no. I'm my brother's brother!" 
It takes a real brother, not a keeper, to respond to the needs we see around us for loving correction and care. Under the rubric of minding our own business, or even of never ratting on a friend, we may not be guilty of killing our brother, as Cain did, but we may be held to account for allowing him to remain oppressed in his self-destruct-. ive ..behavtor without so much as a ripple of protest from us. ' 
The response I've been descriving is not different from the general com­mand to love. but it is a most difficult and delicate expression of it. And a very necessary one, if we would manifest that we have "matured into 
'vulnerability." 
(Editor's note: With this entry, Fr. Toohey begins his eighth year as an Observer columnist.) 

CILA .. ~-Seeking Solutions to Social Injustice 
"The neighborhood has been 
steadily declining since the early 
sevenues, and many home owners 
believe it is due to the large number of 
turn-keys and renters who have been 
migrating in and out of the an~!! durir.g 
this tim~. The home owners fed that 
the reason for the lack of concern 
about the upkeep of the area stems 
from the fact that a large part of the 
population in this area do not plan on 
bemg permanent residents of the area.
Because of the crime and vandalism in 
the area not many people get to know the other people m their neighbor-
d h h 
hoo • ~?d stay pretty muc to t em-
selves. 
Kathleen Tyrell, Oakland, Ca. pro'fect 
The Community for the inter­national Lay Apostolate sponsors summer projects at a variety of urban 
and rural Sl.tes t'n the Unt"ted States and 
Latin America. These two-month 
projects gtve the CILA people an 
opportunity to learn about the sodal 
and economic situations in our world through personal experiences in less fortunate communities. Participants m Summer Projects
learn about the culture of the area they serve and the problems of poverty, disease, and social injustice while working with the people at their site to enhance the qualuy of their lives. 
More than anything else, these Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students learn about their own lives and their duties as Christians to serve others. Still, Summer Projects is just one of the many activities of CILA. 
CILA's main goals are to be aware of the social injustices in our world, and 
, then to strive for solutions which will create a more just world for all people. These goals ~e Worked foi in" an atmosphere of Christian love of neigh­bor, and love of God. 
On campus CILA members work in community service activities with the elderly, retarded children and adults, and homeless teenagers. These 
d · d h

experiences lea to questions, an t e 
CILA community is prepared to help its members deal with those questions. CILA people share and learn l·n thl"s 
community with educational work­
shops, reflection groups, masses, retreats and social events. Many l?eople in CILA become involved wuh other more specific areas f · h h d d
1

o seravlce once t ey ave eve ope a
well-rounded idea of social action through the group's activities. These CILA people have become a part of 
r · h La · A · 

Hunger Coa ltlon, t e tm mencan
Project for Experiential Learning,
Amnesty International, CADENA, Urban Plunge, and most recently, Co-Op, an elderly discount program. 
In CILA, members develop concerns for a just world. They are encouraged to continue srowing with the help of the commumty. Then, in a Summer Project, they learn, grow and question in a community 3,000 or more miles away from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. This year, nine s1tudents challenged themselves in this way. These are some of their reflections: "I went door-to-door talking to black 
men and women, Mexican men and 
wo~en, old people, teenagers, drug 
addicts, the employed, the unem­
ployed, and the welfare recipients. I 
listened to these people, I was cursed 
by some people, I was frightened by 
some people, I frightened some of 
these people, but most importantly, I 
discovered that some people really 
cared. 
Mary Meg McCarthy, Oakland, CA 
. 
ProJect 
"Before I tell you what happenedth" . . . h
ts summer, 1t IS Important to ave a 
simple definition ofwhat oruanizing is. 
P 
Since each person has hts/her own style of orgamzing, each person devel­
ops his/her own idea of what organ­izing really means. To me organizingis bringing a ~roup of people together 
h h k 
as a commumty so t at t ey can wor as a power structure for their neigh­borhood to get things accomplished. If this sounds abstract, it's only because 
it is. In order to understand, and I mean fully understand organizing, a terson has to experience it ftrst-hand. his is the main purpose of the 
Oakland Summer Project. 
by Kathleen Tyrell, Oakland, CA project 
"By setting goals that are realizable the people can see these go~ls be attained. They have a feelmg of accomplishment and pride in them­selves and their community. The power that is gi~en them by w_orking, sharing and acung as a group IS what 
by Ted Gutmann 
keeps  them  united  and  helps  them  
continue  to  spread and  grow.  The  
organizer  tries  to  take  on  as  little  

responsibility as possible to the people are sure to "own" the issue they are workin_g on. If the organizer is the only one wtth a feeling of accomplishing something then the organizing has not been effective. The people of the neighborhodds are brought together to help each other and the organizer is helping them by showing them that this is even possible. 
Mary Cohen, Oakland, CAproject 
''Every home·was a unique exper­ience and not all were pleasant. We met remarried divorcees who were unable to receive the sacraments and were unhappy with the Church. We met lonely women with no one to care for them, and we talked to people through screen doors and windows because they were afraid to trust any newcomers. 
jean Mellett, New Orleans project 
"I found first of all in that part of Appalchia a small, but very strong Catholic influence. The sisters, priests and lay people worked tirelessly with a devotion that could only have been God-ins{>ired. I felt that their manner of dealtng with the physical and emotional needs of the people first charitably, then in a religious way was a wise apfroach for people inherently distrustfu of Catholics. Even the Bible schools stressed Christian love and faith, not str-ictly Catholic beliefs. 
Nancy Dise, Appalachia project 

~~~~~----~~~~~~--~~~~~--------------~­
··~---' 
\ 

Observer -Features \ ' -Monday, S~ptember 3, 1979-page 7 


The prophetable Young; 1Rust Never Sleeps' 
~y Mark Rust 

Neil Young is a poet. To simply treat dious bacteria, creeping corrostve. Mr. Young creates. over and over on sees himself a victim of modern man his latest album , "Rust Never They are "rust." The title "Rust this album a world in which nature is ("Powderfinger") or, in earlier al­Sleeps" as a ~ood rock and roll album Never Sleeps,'' then, is not some destroyed by man. As in "Thrasher," bums, as the victim of the drug culture 
misses the pomt of his an.. Each song meanin~less phrase chosen for its whose mustc is eerily reminiscent of ("Needle and the Damage Done," can stand alone as a quality piece of rhythmtc impact. It is, in fact, a the earlier "Campaigner," and 'Poco­"Tonight's the Night"), poetry an --with musical embellish­warning. ' hantas," one of the best songs on the verse of the heavy metal ment --it becomes a well-rounded, It is, on one level, an artistic warning: album, Young creates a sunny, sum­finger" hardly needs analysis, and artistic 'statement. When you are out of the blue (the merish Garden of Prosperpine and sheer directness of its violent 
But in this album, unlike his previous blues = authentic art)And into the watches it turn to death on the blade of recalls his blackest, most ·n~•-""'"'"''·~· "Comes a Time," there is thematic black (Profit) I Once you're gone you "Those-thrashers rollin' by/ Looking epic, "'last Trip to Tulsa." unity. Mr. Young addresses a theme -can't come 6ack." It is also a social more than two lanes wide." ­--alienation and the deacy of the warnin~: "Better to burn out (reject­
modern world --in each {>ieee. Each ing thts world)Cause, rust never daddy's rifle in-my hand felt reasunn piece follows a progressiOn, from a sleeps.'' It is his weakest poetry but He told me "red means run son,
Modernization and, specifically
vision of nature destroyed to a vision of his strongest statement, and certainly and numbers add up to nothin ' '' 
modernization and the white man,
Young as victim, and finally to a it is at the heart of the album. When the first shot hit the dock I saw 
functions as the dasher of mystic
characiture of Young's alienated bro­It is not simply the beauty of Mr. comin'
dreams in "Pocahontas." Exploring
thers. Young's abstract imagery that makes Raised by nfle to my eye
that particular piece will give on the
The central metaphor ties the whole his lyrics quality poetry: his meter, his Never stopped to wonder why best sense of 'young as a poet. The
package of destruction and victim diction, hts ryhme arid consonance, Then I saw black and by face 
first three verses paint a scene and cut
together. Modern man and his and-his disciplined, orderly flow from in the sky. 
it short, an obvious rhythmic metaphor industrial ways, the pursuit of profit image and metaphor to thematic unity to the plight of the American Indiansand the degradation of love, and even all create a vision of Neil Young's and their homeland. All of the images the reflection of these attitudes world in the eyes and ears and mind of deal with the ice, fire and death, and Two songs-"Welfare Mothers" and 
through fraudulent art, are all insi-the listener. "Sedan Delivery" -deal with artifacts
each one ends with two lines which weem to want to continue; but do not. of the modern world from which Mr. 
Young feels alienated. "Welfare Mothers" is satire, celebrating the
Speedwagon 's 'Nine Lives' 
Aurora Borealis 
degeneracy of the idea of love _as it The icy sky at night happens to relate to economtcs. Paddles cut the water "Sedan Delivery" deals with the 
In a long and hum.edflight 
uselessness of an empty mind and an From the white man, to the fields oj incomplete life. Both are hard-driving 
Not as Good as 'Tuna Fish ' 
green 
metal pieces, almost animalistic in its ~y Tom ]ackmann And the homeland we've never seen sneering, musical impulse to capture contempt in the words.
The success story of REO writing is left to Richrath, who writes They kzlled us in our tepee "Ride By Llama," on the other hand, Speedwagon is becoming something of fine melodies but, unfortunately, And they cut our women down is accoustic; the mild melody of thea stereotype in rock 'n' roll today. tosses cliches around shamelessly. They might have left some babies Young guitar fits well his mysticalTake a tight, hard rocking band from "Only the Strong Survive," from side Cryin ' on the ground vision of himself as though in athe Midwest (Bob Seger or Ted _ one, would be .a nice son~ if it weren't But the fire sticks andthe wagons come 
television commercial. The wordsNugent fit this mold too), have them so overwhelmingly ambtguous. Is he And the night falls on the settz"ng sun produce two or three studio albums trying to insult this girl (''You are suggest he feels frozen in a 
frame while building a solid regional follow­everything you ever needed ... Get They massacred the buffalo security, wholly separated from histor­
ic realities that give any kind of cedenting. Next, release a ·critically down off you high horse") or is he Kitty Corner from the bank 
for feeling insecure.
acclaimed live album, like REO's 1977 pleading with her to accept him (''So if The taxis run across my feet "You Get What You Play For" (or you wanna go, let me go along/I'd And my eyes have turned to blanks Seger's "Live Bullet"). Then break never walk that road alone)? Beats In my little box at the top ofthe stairs Remember the Alamo when helpinto the mass market with heavy hype me. With my Indian rug and a pipe to on the way ­for a hit single and an excellent studio Surprisingly, the best track on share. It's better here and now,album. "Nine Lives" is buried at the end of good today
While Seger came up with ''Night side two, and not written by either The consonance of the song -the I'dlike to take a walk, but not nrrl1J.,'d. Moves,'' Speed wagon produced last Cronin or Richrath but bassist Bruce cruel "K" of killed, cut, cryin' -and the block year's superb ''You Can Tune a Piano, Hall. "Back on the Road Again" also the progression of images from the · I really got some good news But You Can't Tuna Fish," which has Hall making a rare, and very good, Aurora Borealis (the Northern Lights) I met a man from mars contained such fine tunes as "Say-You al'pearance as lead singer, while to ''my little box at the top of the love Me or Say Goodnight," "Do You Richrath and Cronin lay down solid stairs," combine to weave a magic into Know Where Your Woman is To­guitar lines with Richrath occasionally the som~ which can only be found in 
Riding llamas is a scene straight from night?" and the pop hit which may ' breaking off into the soaring solos the fabnc of poetry. 
the world of fantasy, and it is a goodbecome a rock standard, ''Roll With which he is caoable of performing. 
example of the poet Y oun~ at histhe Changes." But the song which The single ~from the album will The next two verses of the song find playful best when he combmes thatreally established the group in the probably by "Easy Money," a the poet in the guise of misplaced, spirit of fantasy wi~h images borrowed eyes of many was "Time For Me to Richrath tune with a catchy melody fragmented Indian in an unreal world, from the corilmerctal world. 
Fly." a not-too-corny love song, it and an introduction of jungle noises searching for one thing which can perfectly exhibited the sinsing and reminiscent of the Captain and fulfill him and make him whole again. 
And when we got on the ship 
writing talents of lead vocaltst Kevin Tennille. The highlight of the song Thus enters Pocahontas. 
He brought out something for the tnp
Cronin. comes during Richrath' s instrumental Cronin neatly sidesteps all the tired . break, when after finishing a tame, I wish I was a trapper And said ''it's old, but it's good'' 
Lzke any other pn·mitive would 
cliches usually found in these ballads inoffensive solo perfectly tailored for 
I would give a thousandpelts
of love lost--witness "I've had enough the pop-market, he rips into a 
To sleep with Pocahontas 
For anyone who feels that all of this is of a falsness of a worn out relation/ sizzling riff which will have even 
Andfind out how she felt 
going to far -there are those whoEnough of the . jealousy and the S{>eedwagon's detractors listening 
In the mornin' in the fields ofgreen 
would ask in ignorance If 'mr. Young'sintoleration/1 make you lau~h and you wtth admiration. 
The rest the is quite In the homeland we've never seen propensity toward rock and roll doesmake me cryII believe it's time for me of album not preclude his consideration as ato fly." You won'r find lyrics like that listenable, with only two real let­Again, the soft labial consonance poet -they would do well to considerwith Boston or Foreigner, and Cronin downs. Cronin's "I Need You the sensuous "P" of trapper, pelts, the music as poetry. I think they willsings--with excellent back-up harmony Tonight" opens like a country-western sleep, Pocahontas -and the delicious, find that there really is more therefrom the Tuna-Ettes--with a sincerity tune, and then his triple-tracked vocals earthy imagery of love and lust create than meets the eye.
Brad Delp or Lou Gramm have yet to come in sounding like the Chiffons. for the Indian Narrator his closest Hey hey, my my.
achieve. And his lyrics are just not up to par approximation of a real and pleasantSo the challenge facio~ these bands here--"How can I show you/1 take world. Finally, the very pastoral and 
at this stage is to maintam such a level back what I told you/Cause something lustful nature of the image sets up a of excellence. REO's followup to happens when I hold you/That makes 
perfect contrast to the stinging, artifi­"Tuna Fish" is called "Nine Lives," everything alright (ugh)/1 just need 
cial images of the fifth verse, which and though they strive mightily, they you tonight." Finally, a cover of returns to the plastic interventions of don't quite reach the mark. For-one Chuck Berry's "Rock and Roll Music" modern man into Young's most private 
reason, Cronin penned only three of is pure filler. Cron~ singls like ~~· s world. ' the nine son~s, co-writing a fourth genuinely bored, wtth the repetitive with lead guttarist Gary Richrath. vocal inflections he usually avoids, and Additionally, Richrath, though he las the rest of the band doesn't seem too 
And Maybe Mar/on Brando
classified himself with the likes of inspired either. John Lennon, Mike 
Wtll be there by the fire _
Beck, Page, Clapton and Townshend, Love and Berry among others outdo 
We'll sit and talk ofHollywood
shows only flashes of brilliance on his Cronin·vocally, though Neal Doughty 
And the gooid things there for hire 
leads, and usually doesn't match the adds a crafty piano solo near the end to 
Andthe Astrodome and the first tepee 
excellence of his work on earlier tunes make the track worth staying until the 
Mar/on Brando, Pocahontas and me
like "157 Riverside Avenue," "Ridin' finish for. , the Storm Out" and "The Unidentified The album is good one, with Flying Tuna Trot.'' Doughty's organ providing the texture 
The third drawback is that the band, that is an REO trademark, and Hall Young can be subtle in his criticism, as and Cronin especially, doesn't attempt and Alan Gratzer on drums forming a in talking with Marlon Bran do of ''all anythin~ like "Time For Me to Fly." solid rhythm section--but it doesn't the good things there for hire (namely, Everythmg seems like "Roll With the quite match the standards set by Marlon Brando)," but always it is Chan~es," which I suppose is symp­''Tuna Fish,'' which is usually the next relentless and powerful. tomatic once a hungry band finally chaJ?ter in these stereotyped success Likewise, his images of destruction tastes the big time. So most of the stones. and death are powerful, whether he 


------L·-­1 
I 
------, 
Monday, September 3, 1979-page 8



Editorials 
The man who gave up smoking ! 


administration of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of 
_The Observer_ 
Many people have given up 
smoking smce all the bad 
publicity, and in the majority of 
cases I admire them for it. But 
~ccasionally there is an excep­
tion. 
I'm thinking now of my friend, 
De Vries, as an example. De 
Vries was a "two-pack-a-day" 
man, and he was very upset 
about it. He finally decided to 
quit, and at lunch· one day he 
said he wanted me to be the 
first to know. "I can do 
without," De Vries said. "All it 
takes is willpower. '•' 
I wished htm well. 
A week later I saw him and 
asked him how it was going. "I 
haven't had a cigarette in seven 
days." he said proudly. 
"Bless you," I said. "Your 
wife must be very proud of 
you.'' 
"I wouldn't know," De Vries 
said. 
"Why not?" 
"I moved out of the house 
three days ago. And I want to 
tell you somethmg, I don't 
miss it at all. What a rat race! 
She was screaming all the time; 
the kids were driving me nuts; 
no one would listen to anything 
I had to say. Maybe I shouldn't 
have slugged her, but.. .. " 
"You slugged her?" I said. 
"Well, it was just a tap. 
Believe me, it's been building 
up for a lon~ time. I mean--I'm 
amazed I dtdn' t do it before. " 
I was very disturbed by the 
news, but I went about my 
business. I didn't see De Vries 
again for ten days. Then I ran 
into him on the street. 
''Hey,'' he said. ''You know, I 
haven't had a cigarette in 17 
days. I don't even miss it." 
"That's great," I replied. 
''How are things going at the 
office?'' 
"What office?" he asked. \ 
"Where you work!" 
''Heck, I quit four days ago. I was sick and tired of putting up with all the stuff they were handing out. They blamed me for losing the Waring account." 
"But you had the Waring account." 
"I did until' Waring started giving me all the flack about not returning his calls. I told him I had other accounts besides his, and I'd get to his calls when I was good and ready. Boy, did 



IN THE /t/Sf/1/WJ, THE ISlAMIC 
KANGAROO Ci:JfJKJS ME CIJ57lJM­
ARILY 6AVt/.EI) 70 fRI)£;R. A'T'AN 
UN60CILY 4:00AM.! 70/JAY5HOIJlfJ Be NO EXCEPTION. 
art buchwald 
about that. So I told the old a good mind to punch you in the man he had to choose between nose.'' me or Waring.'' "De Vries, I don't know how 
"That's terrible," to say this to you, but as a 
''Who cares? Ever since I gave friend, I think I should. Go up smoking, my tennis game is back to smoking. There are great, and I've been out on the some people who should give it court every day." up and some people . who 
I guess I didn't see De Vries shouldn't. It's nothtng to oe for a month. Then he tur~'led up ashamed of. Besides, you've at the house one day. "Well," proved you can give it up, that's he said, "I haven't had a the main thing.'' cigarette in 47 days. I'm My little sermon worker. De adding years on to my life." Vries is now back with his 
"Swell. What can I do for family, he has a new job where you?" he's doing quite well, we're "That's a patronizing thing to friends again, and the last time say. You act as if I were going I saw him he said to me, to hit you up for a loan. Well, I happily, "I don't know how to 
11 GUESS WWAT.... I OU\T SMOKING~" was, but forget it. You're like thank you. Did you know that everyone else, mean and rotten I'm back to two packs of and spiteful and a bore. I have cigarettes a day?" 


P. 0. Box Q 
Storm -trooper 
, 


tactics used by A.C. C. officials 
Dear Editor: 
While waiting for my daughter to come out of the recent REO Speedwagon rock concert, I witnessed the following dis­turbing incident. A few young men, presumably not students, had stationed themselves out­side the A.C.C. with the inten­tion of selling tee-shirts to members of the crowd. They were almost immediately set upon by several men whom I recognized as officials of the 
A.C.C. The officials proceeded to subject the vendors to both verbal and physical abuse. 

I am not questioning the right of the 'Untversity to prohibit Independent vendors from operating-on University,
grounds, but the response ot these officials was totally out of proportion. Without exagg,era­tion it could be described as viscious. For example, one of the young men agreed to leave but first wished to retrieve his eyeglasses which had been knocked to the ground in the scuffle. This request was refused, and the young man was pushed away rather vio­lently to the accompaniment of such shouted remarks as ''Your glasses aren't worth a broken 

tailbone, are they? and ' 'Scabs <..,.n L ueserve any con­sirlPratinn '' 
While the sight of middlt~­aged men pushing around twenty-rear-oldS Whtle shout­ing "I'l kick your a--in" might in certain situations seem com­ical, in this case I found it frightening. The A.C.C. offi­cials, who seemed to be eager for a fight, appeared totally unmindful of the possibility of a brawl erupting. Moreover their actions were bound to show to the younger onlookers, some of whom were in their early teens, a poor model of adult behavior. 
It is hard to believe that the problem of vendors cannot be handled in a more rational and 


Editorial Board 
Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Features Editor ........ K. Connelly /VIanaging Editor . Diane Wilson Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian Editorial EditL'r .......... Ann Gales 
civilized manner, and I think that the University administra­tion should take steps to pre­vent future use of such storm-trooper tactics. 
Professor Alan Howard Department ofMathematics 


Joe Evans: 

:Dedicated teacher ' ­-com£ortable frt"end 
•• .... \II 
Dear Editor: 
Professor ] oe Evans, whose gentle presence has. so richly blessed du Lac, is gone. Many of us knew him not only as a dedicated teacher, but also as a comfortable friend, ever to be found beside the library, puff­ing his cigar and delighting in the afternoon sun. 
This was the Joe Evans who was known never to forget a face, and seldom to forsret a name ..... who relished Mari­
tain' s Education at the Cross­
roads and Silverstein's Giving 
Tree alike .... who nourished his 
classes with both bon mots and 
bon bons .... whose warmth and 
love somehow transformed ev­
eryone they touched. 
Joe Evans was--will always be--pure gift to us. May he intercede for us all that we, too, might love and serve our God and one another in gentleness and humility, that we too might 
live in unrelenting wonderment
and joy. !hank you, Professor, .for your lcrgacy of love. 
Mary V. Champion 
Observer 
Editorial 


Policy 
The Observer welcomes comments from its readers. All letters must be typed, double space; the name, address and signature of the author must be included. The Observer reserves the right to edit all material for grammar, length, and libel­ous statements. 

Bux Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, 
o~Jinions and letters are the views of Executive Nc·ws Editor ....Mike Lewis Business Manager ..... Steve Odland The Obsen·er is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­
News Editor ............ Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tiln Sullivan 
newspaper published by students of able to all members of the community, News Editor .......... .Mike Shields the University of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying Saine Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ......Bob Rudy Saine Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is Sports Editor ...........Mark Perry Controller .......... Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. 

The Observer Monday, September 3, 1979-page 9 
to present 

piano recital 
Jeffrey Jacob, a member of the Saint Mary's College music department, will present the first faculty recital of the aca­demic year on Thursday, Sept. 13 at 8 p.m. in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall. 
His piano selections will in­clude Beethoven's "Sonata in C Major, Op. 53;" "Passa­caglia" by Aaron Copland; "Nocturne in C Major," ''Mouvements Perpetuels'' and "Toccata" by Francis Poulenc; and Franz Liszt'a "Spanish Rhapsody.''. 
The public is invited to attend
Whtle many students are already busy with homework, others have not yet gotten back 
into the swing ofacademic lzfe. [photo by Phtl johnson.] 

_The Observer_ SAINT MARY'S OFFICE NEEDS: 
NEWS WRITERS DAY EDITORS FEATURE WRITERS SPORTS WRITERS LAYOUT STAFF 
MEETING WEDNESDAY NIGHT 
• 7:00 
McCandless Piano Room 


NO EXPERIENCE NECESSAR 
FOR MORE INFO CALL 
• 


ELLEN 4689 MARGIE 4161 
the recital. There will be no admission charge. 
Hurricanes leave paths of death , destruction 
(AP) Atlantic hurricanes which caused havoc in the Caribbean and threatened the South Florida coast yesterday, or Frederic, the latest hurricane of the season -rank among the world's worst disasters. 
Such hurricanes have claimed thousands of lives, cau_sed bil­lions of dollars in damage and have subjugated at one time or abother residents of practically every state along the coasts from Texas to Massachusetts. 
In terms of lives lost, the most destructive hurrican struck at the United States on Sep. 8, 1900. 
Hurricane Agnes, which moved across Maryland, the District of Columbia, Pennsyl­vania and New York on June 21, 1972, was the most costly disaster in history in terms of property damage. 
Agnes' rain caused rivers in those states to overflow, isola­ting cities alon~ the ] ames and Susquehanna nvers. Highways were cut, bridges collapsed and thousands of residents in tiver cities were isolated. 
Agnes claimes 118 lives, ru­ined and estimated $132 million in crops and caused property 
damage estimated at more than 
$3 billion. 
The so called Eastern Sea­board Hurricane hit New York City, Long Island, and most of New England on Sept. 21, 1938. 
It killed 600 persons and caused property damage esti­mated at $1 billion in Vermont, Massac~usetts, Roday Island, Connecticut and New York. 
Hurricane Camille carried winds that the National Wea­ther Service said reached 200 ~ph during gu~ts and raised ttdes 30 feet m the Gulf. 
Camille struck at the coasts of Lousiana, Mississippi and Alabama on Aug. 17, 1969. Before it abated, 241 persons were killed. 
The most recent storm to strike at South Florida was Hurricane Betsy -on Sept. 8, 1965. 
Betsy raked Miami Beach, Miami and the Florida keys and then moved across the peninsu­la to the Gulf and on to Louisiana. Seventy-five per­sons were killed, 58 or them in Louisiana. An estimated $1.4 billion in crop and property damage was caused by the storm. 





1980 mock Repuublican Convention 
\ 

Now taking applications for the position of convention chairman and also assistant chairman in the 
following areas: 
Publici-ty Logistics 
Delegates Pfatfotm 
Speakers Ptogtam Budget 
Those interested should pick-up & complete form available in Student Government offices , 2nd floor LaFortune 
Deadline for all applications 5 : 00 pm Sept. 10, 1979 
•
" ­
c ~ -..r z U)
'<f 
.. < <{ 
.. S? 2
=J:<{
• ~ 0 
-:::!Ez 
• I­
.. a: 0 
.. oz 
~ ~ 
• ~:I: 
1 ~ 
• 
I 



The Observer Monday, September 3, 1979-page 10 


313 yards, completing 22 of 36 and throwing three TDs. 
Archie  Manning  of  New  
Orleans  hit  14  of 24  for 283  
yards.  

Don Cockcroft kicked a 35­yard field goal with four sec­onds left in regulation time to tie the score and then came back to boot a 27-yarder with 15 S(!conds remaining in the extra period to ease Cleveland past the New York Jets. 
Before Cockcroft kicked his winner, Pat Leahy, who had three field goals for the Jets, missed a 44-yarder which would have won it for New York. 
Kenny Stabler fired th.ree touchdown passes, movtng Oakland past Los Angeles. Raymond Chester caught pitch­es of 27 and 4 yards and Derrick Ramsey grabbed a 1-yarder as the Raiders took advantage of the mistake-prone Rams. 
Clarence Williams ran for two touchdowns and Rolf Ben­irschke kicked four field goals as San Diego defeated Seattle. The Chargers forced Seahawk ~quarferbaek·jim· Zorn into-·five turnovers, inercepting him three times and recovering two of his fumbles. 
Ted McKnight accounted for both Kansas City touchdowns in the Chiefs' victory over Baltimore. McKnight's first score came on a 1-yard plunge and then he went 70 yards for the wrapup score with about eight minutes remaining. 
Denver's defense stifled Cin­nati and Norris Weese threw to back Dave Preston for the game's lone Tf• as the Broncos downed the Bengals. 
...KKK 
[continued from page 5] 

no effort to ·enter the pasture and were ignored by the 'klan members. 'klan officials said the blacks would not have been allowed on the pasture, which was ''private property.'' 
Roy Lee Chesterfield, 28 a ­construction worker who said·· he moved to Stone Mountain recently from Brantley County in Southeast Georgia, said he came because he was curious and wanted to know what the. 'klan actually was. 
"I never saw a cross burning before," he said. ) 
The second man, who identi­fied himself as a Georgia Power Co. draftsman, took moving pictures of the Klan members as they assembled. 
........ 'l .• 

.. 





Molarity 
TliE ~y Dffi\RF I MENT HAS BAD NEWS 1l> REPORT-THE SUSN'/ B. 


(continued from page 11) 
Rafael Septien's third field goal of the game, a 27-yarder with_' 76 seconds left to play, carried the defending NFC champion Dallas _Cowboys past stubborn St. ~outs. It .marked t~e 15th stratght opemng day vtctory for the Cowboys, who had to overcome 193 yards rus~ing by St. Louis rookie Otus Anderson. 
Atlanta's overtime victory over New Orleans came when James Mayberry grabbed a 
by 
TH£ PEL>Pt.£ Dolti'T LIKE fT... JT LOOK5 1l>O MVOI LIKE AQLW.TER. YET THE REGJULAR GEORGE W/6H/Nf?IToN DOLLAR 151M 


Notre Dame -St. Mary's campus wide 
• • . NFL 

desperation pass by punt~r Russell Erxleben and went 10 for the winning TD nine min­utes into the extra period. The Saints were set to punt from their 32 when the pass from center sailed over Erleben's head. The rookie recovered the ball at the 5-yard line and tried to pass it, but Mayberry · grabbed the ball instead and 
scored the winning points. 

William Andrews rushed for 
162 yards on 29 carries for the 
Falcons and Chuck Muncie 
gained 158 on 22 attempts for 
the Saints. Atlanta quarterback 
Steve Bartkowski passed for 
Michael Molinelli 
... TilE NEW 
i £FF£MMINAT£ 6~0P6£ . WASHINGTON DoLLAfl. 


·• 






,Welcome Back Party 
Friday, Sept. 7~, 1979 7:30 -12:30 off campus: South Bend Union Train Station corner of Lafayette & South 
live music, food, 100 kegs of beer 
Tim Hanlon,magician 
-All proceeds go to the University Scholarship Fund.

donation $4.00 
Chartered buses will leave at i: 30 and every half hour after that, from the ND circle and 
-

SMC Leman's Hall 
Colleg·e ID must be shown to enter 
-
..._.._... 
• .. 

.... --~--_....___...........~.......--1'1 ,, ' 
( I \
' 


The Observer -SportsBoard Monday, September 3, 1979 -page 11
/ I
I 



--~------­
·' 


Monday, September 3, 1979-page 12 
Adell shines 

Irish scrim.m.age pleases Devine 
It may have been 

by Paul Mullaney Devine had just watched his ''Berni~ is a great kid,'' said 
Assistant Sports Editor White squad (ftrst team) roll to Devine. "I wish he could play a 48-14 win over the Blue more. But we're so deep at that nothing squad, and was also pleased spot. Up until today he hadn't more than a typical pre-season wrth the quarterback play. been playing that well. But he~ 
football scrimmage, but Notre Senior Rusty Lisch, who looked perfect today.''
directed the White offense most 
Dame Coach Dan Devine was Adell, who scored one touch· nonetheless impressed with his of the afternoon, .connected on down from two yards out, also 
eight of 15 aerial attempts for
squad's showing Saturday caught four passes for 70 
97 yards with one interception.
afternoon at Notre Dame yards--including a 46-yard
Lisch, who directed six White
Stadium. swing pass from Koegel that set 
"It was a pretty good day of scoring drives, also scored a up the final score. work," smiled Devine, who one-yard touchdown run. All-American candidate! begins his ftfth season as Irish Lisch looked most impressive Vagas Ferguson was used spar· 
coach in two weeks at while taking his squad on an ingly in the scrimmage, but it 
Michigan. "It was a hot and 80-yard scoring drive in the didn't take long for him to humid day, and we needed the second quarter. Key ftrst-down prove himself. On the game's work in this type of weather. pass receptions by Ty opening play the Richmond 
Dickerson and Dean Masztak
We got a lot done considering native busted over left tackle 
helped set up Jim Stone's
the number of people we have and sprinted for 58 yards--only out with bumps and bruises and six-yard touchdown effort to be stopped at the four-yard the flu that's going around. around the right side. line by Muncie's Dave Duerson. 
Junior signal-caller 'fim
"You know, . I've been a freshman cornerback. That 
Koegel was also on target most
accused by my good friends as set up Pete Buchanan's one.. being overly optimistic, so I of the day, as he quarterbacked yard score on third down. 
to be the Blue unit before changing Buchanan, a sophomore full.. 
jerseys in the ftnal15 minutes. 
back from Plymouth, Ind., car.. 
The Cincinnati native was ried·only two more times in the accurate on 12 of 21 attempts-­game, and ftnished with a. total despite one interception--for of 56 yards on the afternoon. A 153 yards. He scored the 54-yard run down the lefr game's ftnal touchdown on a sideline off of Mike Courey'sone-yard bootleg around right hand-off helped set up Chuck 
end. Male's 25-yard field goaL better chance than that, but his But most impressive, how­which put the White ahead. 34-yard attempt with no time ever, was backup tailback 17-0, at halftime. 
Bernie Adell. The sophomore
left went wide and Miami Junior tailback Jim Stone 
nailed down a record 19th runner gained 42 yards in 12 
also carried the ball much of the straight victory over the Bills. totes while carrying for the afternoon. In 13 carries, the 
Larry Csonka, returning to the Blues in the ftrst half, and Seattle native gained 81 yards. Dolphins' lineup, ground out 87 changed -teams to gain 72 yards Ty Dickerson had three recep­
in nine carries in the second tions for 42 yards. ·
[continued on page 11] 
half.
' 

Connors advances in U.S. Open 
NEW YORK (AP) -Defending has won all three of his matches poned the return-of the 20-year­champion Jimmy Connors cele­here in straight sets. When­old McEnroe to the stadium brated his 27th birthday Sunday ever the 23-year-old Californian -court, scene of his tumultuous by advancing to the fourth tried to approach the net to encounter with Ilie Nastase round of the U.S. Open Tennis attack, Connors beat him with Thursday night. McEnroe won Championships with a 6-3, 6-0, strong passing shots. · that match 6-4, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2, 6-3 victory over unseeded Bruce Connors took the lead in the but the tennis was overshad­Manson. first set with a service break in owed by unruly crowd behavior 
Other winners Sunday includ­the third game and led 4-3 that finally led to the replace­ed third-seeded John McEnroe, before breaking the match 0pen ment of umpire Frank Ham­whose opponent, John Lloyd of by winning nine consecutive mond so that the match could Britain, defaulted because of a games. Manson then won three continue. stomach ailment, and No. 5 ,n a row to lead the third set ''Lloyd was up all night with a seed Roscoe Tanner, who beat .3-1, but Connors held service at stomach ailment and said he Nick Saviano 6-4, 6-4, 3-6, 6-3. love to start a string of ftve couldn't play," a spokeman for 
Chris Evert. Lloyd, John's straight games that closed out the U.S. Tennis Association wife, who is seeking her fifth the match. announced. straight Open title, was sched­The default by Lloyd post­uled to meet Renee Richards in a night match. In other night action, seventh-seeded Harold 
Entr_y deadlines approach _for
Solomon was to face Ray Moore of South Africa and No. 1.& Tim Gullikson was to meet Buster 
_first _fall interhall athletics 
Mottram of England. 
Manson was no match for the Deadlines for this year's first the interhall cross country race second-seeded Connors,. who round of interhall sports are must turn in rosters by Septem­
(AP)Minnesota used a new pitcher -Tommy Kramer -and Houston relied on the same old runner -Earl Campbell -to score opening-day vtctories as the 60th National Football season got rolling Sunday. 
Kramer threw four touchdown passes to Ahmad Rashad and got a needed assist on the last one when Sammy White recov­ered it in the end zone for the winning score with 17 seconds left as the Vikings topped San Francisco 28-22. 
Campbell, the NFL's rushing champion as a rookie last season, churned for 166 Jards on 33 carries and score two TDs, including the winner with under two minutes remaining, moving the Oilers to a 29-27 decision over Washin~ton. 
In other games, Phtladelphia downed the New York Giants 23-17, Miami outlasted Buffalo 9-7, Chicago edged Green Bay 6-3, Dallas nipped St. Louis 22-21, Atlanta outlasted-New Orleans 40-34 in overtime, Cleveland nipped the New York Jets 25-22 in overtime, Denver shut out Cincinnati 10-0, Kan­sas City blanked Baltimore 14-0, Oakland downed Los Angeles 24-17 and San Diego took Seattle 33-16. 
The season opened officially Saturday night when Tampa Bay ripped Detroit 31-16. The opening week's action con­cludes Monday night with the defending Super Bowl cham­pion Pittsburgh Steelers play­ing at New England. 
All of Kramer's TD pitches came in the second half as the Vikings, held to a single TD in four preseason games, sudden­ly came alive. Rashad' s first three scoring catches were on plays covering 52, 32 and 8 yards. Then he caught what turned out to be the 25-yard winner onlv to have the ball jarred loose by Tim Gray in the end zone. White, the Vikings' other wide receiver, fell on the ball for the clinching points. 
Kramer, re~lacing retired Tarkenton, fintshed with 21 of 33 for 297 yards. Steve Deberg of San Francisco hit 31 of 43 for 262. 
Campbell boomed into the end zone from the 3-yard line for Houston's winning points 
against Washington. The TD capped a 16-point last quarter rally for the Oilers and was set up when safety Bill Currier recoveredJohn Riggins' fumble at the Washington 29. 
Campbell also scored on a 13-yard run and Toni Fritsch kicked field goals of 41 and 46 yards for the Oilers. Joe Theismann threw a pair of TD passes to Jean Fugett for Washington and Mark Mosley kicked field goals of 27 and 39 yards, Mosley missed a 70-yard attempt at the final gun. 
Buffalo's Tom Dempsey had a 
Trevino, Twitty take 
(AP) -Lee Trevino, the cool 72 in the final round for second veteran who has won the Cana­place with a 288 total, three dian Open three times, added behind Trevino's l-over-par the Canadian PGA t-itle to his 285. list of accomplishments Sunday Tom Watson, leading money with a steady, final-round score winner on the U.S. PGA tour of 1-under-par 70. with $447,636, finally settled 
The victory in the 72-hole down after rounds of 72, 73, tournament was worth $20,000 and 76 with a 2-under-par 69 for to the 39-year-old Trevino. He 290 and third place. opened the tournament on the Wadkins, who had earlier 6,975-yard National Golf Club rounds of 73, 71, and 72, won course with a 67, slipped to a $11 ,800 and Watson collected 76, then had a 72 in Saturday's $7,700. 
third round. Howard Twitty sank a four­Defending champion Lanny foot putt for a par on the final Wadkins, who won this tour­hole after watching Doug nament in Vancouver last year Tewell and Tom Purtzer fail on with a 270 total, finished with the same 18th green to win the 
•..,..,. "1,0. 

rapidly approaching, accordin~ ber 19. to Rich O'Leary, assistant cit­Information on all these inter­rector of non-varsity athletics. hall sports is available at the
t~ourneys Students are also reminded that inter hall office. 
they must have some form of Insurance requirements must $275,000 B.C. -Open golf tour­insurance policy if they want to be met before any student can nament on Sunday. compete in any interhall or club participate in any intramural or 
Just moments before Twitty's sport. club activity. Failurs to comply putt, Purtzerbogied the 1.8th to Rosters for men's interhall will jeopardize the status of the fall 1 strode behind. Then football, women's football, co­team. Tewell had a double boger to ree softball, and 16-inch softball If you plan on participating in fall 2 strokes behind, leaving it must be submitted to the a contact intramural sport (foot­up to Twitty to par the hole and interhall office (C-2 in the ACC) ball or soccer in the fall), you take home the winner's purse of by this Wednesday, September must bring proof of insurance $49,500. 5. Individual entries for the (copy of the policy or insurance 
Howard Twitty sank a four­three tennis divisions (men's, ID card excepted only) to the 
foot putt for a par on the final women's, and mixed doubles) non-varsity athletic office. hole after watching must also be submitted on that If you wish to compete in a Doug Tewell and Tom Pu!£zer date. non-contact sport, you must fill fail on the same 18th to fall 1 Rosters for interhall soccer out a medical consent, insur­
stroke behind. Then Tewell and graduate touch football ance and release form. An had a double bogey ~o fall 2 must be turned in to the insurance policy number ts interhall office by September required for this form. 
[continued on page 11] 
12, and teams wishing t~ run in 







