----~---------------...... 
, , , Gay rights issue -page 6 

VOL. XIII, NO. 105 .;/ an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, MARCH 27, 1979 
Leaders sign treaty beginning 'eraofpeace' in MiddleEast 
WASHINGTON (AP) · Egypt But agreement did not come dismantle jewish settlements and Israel, neighbors but en­easily. and return to Egypt the vast emies for a generation, signed a Even at lunch, only a little more Sinai desert seized in the treaty yesterday to begin a new, more than a n hour before they Six-Day War of 1967. Egyptfragile era of peace between si~ned, Be~in and Sadat were agrees, for the first time, to Arab and Jew. sull dispuung what the treaty formally recognize her ] ewish 
In a sofemn ceremony on the papers should call an area the neighbor as a member of the front lawn of the White House, Israeli leader insists on refer­community of nations. Egyptian President Anwar Sa­ring to as J use a and Samaria Carter, in his speech, called on dar and Israeli Prime Minister and most o(the world calls ''the the rest of the Arab world to Menachem Begin put their ·West Bank." join in the peace precess, and names to Arabic, Hebrew and Sadat and Begin signed, dra­he showered Sadat and BeginEnglish copies ot a treaty matically, on the windy lawn, with ringing praise. promising mutual recognition, after 30 years of hostility and Without singling out any of the respect and peace. four wars between their nations treaty critics by name, Carter 
''Peace has come! '' declared a and after 15 months of Amer­said those ''who would cal­beaming President Carter, ican-sponsored negotiations. lously split bood'' should be 
whose personal intervention Then Carter added his signa­aware of a joint determination brought the talks back to life ture, a satisfied witness. by the United States Egypt and after they had stalemated in the Thus, on a chilly, sun-filled Israel to "vigorously wagedetails. spring afternoon, with 1,600 peace."Carter quoted the Bible and the witnesses waving the flags of Agreement on the final details · Koran, and he offered a person­the three nations, a Moslem, a the question of Israeli access to al prayer that Arabs and Jews ] ew and a Christian joined in oil from wells to be surrendered may one day be brothers. solemnizing their handiwork. back to Egypt -came in a 
Sadat, replying, declared: "let They hoped their act would Sunday night face-to-face there be no more bloodshed lead to a permanent peace session between Sadat and between Arabs and Israelis.'' throughout the Middle East, a Begin.
'·Let us work together until the task threatening to be even. Begin dropped his proposal that day comes when they beat their more difficult than this hard the treaty be signed at two swords into plowshares and first step. further ceremonies, in ] erusa­their spears into pruning After signing, the three lem and Cairo. Instead, he hooks,'' the Egypuan said. grasped each other m a three­a~reed to settle for a one-day
Carter quoted the same words way handshake. Carter said vtsit Monday to Cairo. from lsiah. softly, "I'm so proud of both of It will be a return :all for the his­"No more war," agreed Begin. you.'' toric visit of Sadat to Jerusalem "No more bloodshed. Peace Outside the White HOuse on Nov. 19, 1977, which started 
unto y~~-Shalom, salaam, gates, 1 ,000 protestors, sup­the peace process after years of 

forever. porters of Palestinians, shouted Well, at least it's not ducks, squirrles, or the Dome. [Photo
[continued on page 3] by Bob Gti!J
"Shalom" means "peace' in their opposition, charging Sa­Hebrew. ''Salaam'' means dar had betrayed their cause by"peace" in Arabic. making a separate peace with 

Sadat and Begin both praised the ] ewish state. Carter profusely. Sad at called "The Shah Is Gone, Sadat is 
Camarda reflects on experiences 
him a man of compassion; Next," their placards read, and Begin said Carter's work would "Palestine Is Not For Sale." by Michael Onufrak will ''do all it can to see that he gets what he be remembered for generations In the treaty, Israel agrees to StaffReporter wants.'' Camarda had requested that he be allowed to "I can do a little of everything, but not a lot of live in Sorin Hall where he had stayed before
Hesburgh preaches peace 
anything," remarked Notre Dame senior ] oe moving off campus at the beginning of last Camarda last week at his Reston, VA. home. semester. Camarda is convalescing there from the effects ''About the only good thing that has come out
while Arab world 'seethes' 
of a Dec. 11 shooting incident at his former of this whole mess has been the performance of by Mark Rust of David that were written residence at 902 E. Corby St. the student body. I think they have shown that News Editor there," Hesburgh asked. He Camarda was shot in the neck on the evening they aren't apathetic," Camarda stated. quoted Psalm 137: "If I forget of Dec. 11, and subsequently underwent three He mentioned the many cards he received 
Five hours after the historic youJerusalem, may my ton~ue major orperations which confined him to a bed in from "friends, casual aauaintances, and even signing of thcMiddleEast Peace cleave to my palate, my nght St. Joseph's Hospital in South Bend for six total strangers" as proof of the student body's Treaty, Fr. Theodore hand be forgotten." weeks. concerned attitude. He added that the success Hesburgh, University presi­As ifin answer to Hesburgh's Bobby D. McKinstry, 18, of 9141h E. Corby of the '')oe Camarda benefit'' held at Lee's Ribs dent, stood on the floodlit ste~;>s question, much of the Arab St. was charged on Dec. 18 with alleged shooting last month was further proof of the sympathetic of the Lincoln Memorial 10 world seethed with hatred and of Camarda. Accordin~ to ~;>olice, the charges student reaction. Washington and told hundreds sorrow yesterday, even as . against McKinstry are ' crimmal conversion and Camarda expressed his thanks to Sorin Hall of candle-holding worshippers Hesburgh spoke in the capital. battery." He is currently awaiting trial in the St. Rector Rev. Mr. David Porterfield C.S.C. who at an Ecumenical Service that Palestine Liberation Organiza­] oseph County jail. allowed a dorm fme of$50 to be donated towards "If religious persons are com­tion Chief Yasser Arafat, for­Police added that McKinstry has been unable Camarda's medical costs. David Wood and mitted profoundly to one simple getting neither ] erusalem nor to post "the $800 bond he needs to get out." No Michael Kiefer, residents of the Sorin basement, reality all around the world, it Palestme, vowed to ''chop off trial date has been set. had asked Porterfield that their fine for an illegal must be peace." the hands" of "the stooge "My health is about 80% of what it should keg be donated to charity. 
Along with a rabbi and an Sadat, the terrorist Begin and be," reflected Camarda, who appeared tanned Along with the $100 raised at the Lee's Ribs' 
Episcopal Bishop, Hesburgh the imperialist Carter." Arafat though still slightly underweight. ''Tho.! healin~ benefit, the check from Porterfield paid for led the crowd in prayers that also predicted that Sadat would process was defimtely accelerated in Florida,' nearly all of Camarda's medical expenses which rhe Israeli-Egyptian treaty soon be assasinated. he added, alluding to a week-long vacation he had not been covered by insurance. would bring years of peace. Effigies of President Carter, took in mid-February with his parents. 
"I think we really found out how close ND can

"Peace we have tonight, but Prime Minister Begin and Camarda went on to say that he defmtely be, it's a shame it took a tragedy like this to peace will maintain only by Egy~;>tian President Sadat went intends to enroll again next semester and will prove it," Camarda said. He estimated theworks of justice," Hesburgh up m flames in Palestinian pursue "a few credits to lighten the load" over number of cards and letters he has received atsaid. ''Without justice, especi­refugee camps in Beirut and the summer at a local college. Camarda was "weU over 100." 
ally to the poor, the homeless elsewhere in Lebanon. majoring in economi~s and would have gradu­Though his best friend, and organizer of the and the hopeless, there will be In other world capitals, ated at the end of .th1s semester. 
Lee's Ribs benefit, Jim Modic, considers him tono peace.'' Palestinians and other Arab Though he admitted it was a great disappoint­be "pensive and shghtl.r. more contemplative,"Hesburgh's speech, which sympathizers paraded, sat in, ment not to graduate with his class, Camarda Camarda insists he is sttll the "easy-gomg guy"stressed the "remarkably and raJiied to denounce a treaty expressed uncertainty when confronted with the he always has been.

allied" nature of the Moslem, that ends 30 years of war possibility of ''walking through'' graduation ] ewish and Christian faiths, between Israel and Eygpt but ceremonies in May. "I'm definitely not bittt:r about the whole · reminded the crowd that all leaves Israel in control of some According to Housing Director Edmund Price, thing and I harbor no personal vindictiveness three hold ] erusalem--a name occupied Arab lands and does '')oe will be f.laranteed on-campus housing towards the guy who did it,'' he said. which ironically means City of not meet Arab demand~ for an next semester. ' Price is uncertain whether "The only thing I'm bitter about is the Peace--as a "holy city." independent Palestinia'n home­Camarda will be able to reside in the specific hall off-campus situation and the condition of the 
"Who can forget the psalms land. he rel]uested, though he said the administration neighborhood.'' 

-




News in brief 
Bhutto 's execution nears 
ISLAMABAD, Pakista.n (AP)--Deposed Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto's seven-day execution countdown began yesterday at Islamabad's central jail. Only a clemency decreee from President Mohammed Zia ul Haq can save his life. Informed sources, askin~ not to be named, said jail authorities received the execution orders yesterday from the Lahore Supreme Court. By law, the execution is to take place seven days from receipt of the execution orders. 
\_ 
CAMBRIDGE, Md. (AP)--The Guinness Book of World 
/Records doesn't have a ca,tegory for raw egg guzzlers, but that hasn't stopped Danny "Killer" ~arsh. ~ year ago, Marsh publicly swallowed 30 raw eggs m 45 mmutes. And on Saturday, Marsh will try to set. a world's _record !or the event. The present one, he says, 1s 50 eggs m 60 mmutes. Marsh's said his raw egg habit d~1tes back three years_ to when he was in high shcool. He srud he was so slow gettmg out of bed for school that he had time only for a .r;aw egg snack before class. 

jordan 's Queen loses child 
AMMAN Jordan. (AP)--Queen Noor of.Jordan, the form~~ American-born Liza Halaby, has lost her unborn baby after three months of_pregnancy, the royal palace announced yesterday. The bnef statement attributed the lo_ss to undisclosed "health troubles." The queen was marned to King Hussein last June at age 26. She !sa 1974 gr~duate of Princeton University and was destgn _supervtsof f<?r Jordanian Royal Airways. ~er father, ~aJeeb Halaoy, ts former president ofPan Amencan World A!fW~ys and form17r head of the Federal Aviation Administrauon. She 1s Hussein's fourth wife. His first two marriages ended in divorce. His third wife died in a helicopter crash in 1977. 
OPECto raise oilprices 
GENEVA Switzerland (AP)--The Organization of Petroleum Exportini, Countries wi1lJrobably raise oil pric_es consider­.'-ty Apnl 1 sources sai testerday. An Iraman delegate
sar • · · 
d his nation had support or a 29 perct;nt nse. J\n 10~rease by that much would raise the Amencan retad pnce of ~asoline and heating oil by about six <:ents a gallon. ''A price 10crease is inevitable '' said an offictal of a key member of the 13-nation cartel. 'OPEC is meeting here to discuss the effects of oil shortages caused by the Iranian revolution and other factors on world oil supply. Rising oil pr~ces _will mean higher consumer prices, .althC!ugh_ th~. prectse rmpact. of OPEC increases on U.S. inflauon 1s difficult to determ10e because of the long distance between Arab_i~n oil pumps a~d American gasoline tanks. Yesterday, C::mbank e_conom1st John Mugno said one-shot, 25 percent 10crease 10 OPEC crude oil prices might raise inflation th~s year by one-half o~ a percentage point. U.S. consumer pnces, up 9 percent 10 1978 rose by 1.2 percent between January and February.Mug~o and other analysts said the half-point i~crease in inflation from OPEC actons could be repeated 10 1980 as energy price boosts work their_ way through _the 17conomy. Mungo warned against comparmg OPEC acuons 1n 1979 to those of five years ago, when oil prices were ~bruptly quadrupled, saying the latest actions are "a shock, but nothing like the 1974 increase." 

Weather 

Chance of showers and thunderstorms today. Highs today around 50. Lows tonight in the 40s. 1 

CamR===u===s== 
12:15 pm--MASS, with fr. robert griffin, LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
4:30 pm--SEMINAR, "the ecologists' contribution to the reclamation of devastated land," prof. tony bradshaw, dept. of botany, univ. of liverpool, 278 GALVIN 
7 pm--FILM, "the toughest job you'll ever love," spon. by the peace corps, LAFORTUNE THEATRE 
7·30 pm--LECTURE "thurgood marshall and the forgottenl~gacy of brown v. board of e?uc.: 25th anniversary of the brown case," prof. kenneth npple, HOWARD HALL 
7:30pm--LECTuRE, "the end of medicine & the pursuit of 
Tuesday, March 27, 1979 -page 2 

Actress Helen Hayes receives Notre Dame's Laetare Medal 
Helen Hayes has been 
awarded the University of Notre 
Dame's Laetare Medal, the 
oldest of honors accorded 
American Catholics. 
The 78-year-old · actress, 
whose performances have de­lighted audiences since her professional debut in 1905 as Prince Charles in "The Royal F ami! y, " is the third actress apd twenty-second woman to receive the medal, first given to distinguished Catholics m 1893. , Margaret Anglin received the medal in 1927 and Irene Dunne 
in 1949. , 
"Both on and off the stage, 
Helen Hayes has given us an 
insight into the human condi­
tion rare in its range and in its 
depth,'' commented Fr. 
Theodore Hesburgh, president 
of the University. 
Millions of Americans hav;e been entertained by Miss Hayes in memorable per­formances that include Maggie Wylie in "What Every Woman Knows," Mary Stuart in "Mary of Scotland," and, in what is regarded as her most brilliant portrayal, Queen Victoria in ''Victoria Regina.'' In what was to become a familiar suc­cess story for the actress, the 1935 production of "Victoria Regina" ran 123 weeks on Broadway before touring 43 
U.S. cities, where it broke box office records before closing in January, 1939, after 969 per­formances by its lead. Other 
Howard 
LOYOLA UNIVERSITY


sponsors 
The Graduate School of Business

lecture 
Offers An Evening MBA 

Professor Kenneth Ripple of Notre Dame's Law School will lecture on ''Thurgood Marshall • 12 course program for undergraduate businessand the Forgotten Legacy of administration mqjorsBrown vs. the Board of Educa­• 16 course program for undergraduate non-businesstion: 25th Anniversary of the administration majorsBrown Case,'' tonight at 7: 30 at 
Howard Hall. 
• Classes meet once a week. Study full or part-time. 

All interested members of 
• 
Enter any quarter in Summer, Autumn, Winter or Spring. the Notre Dame community are 

• 
Applications now being accepted for the Summer and invited to attend this lecture 


Autumn 1979 which is Being sponsored by the 
• School Representative will be on campus April 3rd. 

Academic ICultural Commis­
sion of Howard Hall. 
·.l L(Md LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
· 820 North Michigan Avenue Chicago, Illinois 60611

FThe Observer_ 
TELEPHONE: 312/670-3140
~ Ill We are an equal opportunity educator/employer 

Night Editor: Sue Wuetcher 
Asst. Night Editor: Mary 
Pat Ellis 
Copy Editor: John McGrath 
Layout Staff: Ryan Ver 
Berkmoes 
Editorial Layo.ut: Tom 
Behney 
Features Layout: Scoop 
Sullivan 
Sports Layout: Mark Perry, 
john Smith 


Judicial Council 

Typists: Mardi Nevin, Tom 
Pipp, Pete McFadden, Betz 
Early Morning Typist: KT 
Executive Staff 

Day Editor: john Ferro/£ 
Ad Layout: Joe Murphy, 
:: 
/

Barb Pratt 
Photographer: Bob Gill 
at Student Govt. Offices
I 

The Observer [USPS 598 920] is published Monday throug~ Friday ex­
submit by April 2 

cept during exam and vacat1on per1ods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and .Saint 
questions or suggestions call 

Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 
~ 

purchased for $20 per year [$10 per semester] from The Observer. P.O. box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second 
Judicial Coordinator .Jim O'Hare 

class postage paid. Notre Dame. In­diana 46556. ­The Observer is a member of tlle 
6413or 1694 

Associated Press. All reproduction

• 
stage milestones include ''The award as the best actress in Wisteria Trees (1950, "The broadcasting for "Helen Hayes Skin of Our-Teeth" (1955), and Theatre!.'_ on CBS. She has also "Long Day's Journey Into acted on television, including a Night" (1971). role as one of NBC-TV's 
In 1928, Miss Hayes married "Snoop Sisters" in 1974 and an Charles G. MacArthur, and her appearance with her son a year acting career was suspended later on "Hawaii Five-0." two years later for the birth of a For 60 years Miss Hayes has daughter, Mary, who died at 21 been a member of the Catholic of polio. Her husband died in Actors' Guild of America and 1956, survived by a son from his once commented, ''there was a first marriage, James Gordon time when I thought the theatre MacArthur, a television actor. and all its absorbing work had 
While the stage has been her deprived me of other things in home, Miss Hayes: has made life, but I have learned that I occasional fo-rays into was wrong. For what God has Hollywood, winning critical ac-given me through my profes­claim for her performance as sion has made me sometimes the Dowager Empress in able to help others---and my­" Anastasia," in which she was self. Certainly it has made my co-starred with Ingrid Bergman life rich and meaningful.'' and Yul Brynner. She received The Laetare Medaf, tradition­a 1971 Academy Award for best ally announced on the fourth supporting actress in Sunday ofLent (Laetare Sunday "Airport." in the Catholic liturgical year), 
Her radio career dates back will be presnted at an occasion to 1930 and includes a 1940 to be announced later. 
( ~---------------~l
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
I ~
Special Discount 
I for N.D. Students 1
I I
I 259-0335 
\ Self lock Storage of McKinley 1
.._ _______________,1 




DON'TffiiSS

Egyptians express mixed feelings 
Ptofessot Hans J.

towards peace treatywith Israel 
CAIRO, Egypt (AP)t.>· Uncer­tain, apprehensive." joyful, millions of Egyptians yesterdar watched their televisions, tunea in their radios or simply listen­ed for the pealing of bdls announcing the birth of peace for their la:nd. 
Not all welcomed the treaty with Israel. Officials said public gatherings were discour­aged last night out of concern that treaty opponents, calling it a betrayal of the Palestinians and other Arab states, would try to disruot them. 
The ruli~g l'lational Demo­cratic Party of President Anwar Sadat planned rallies through­out Egypt for later in the week. 
Last mght's organized events 
were simple,. the lighting of 
mosques and ringing of church 
bells at the momenr of the 
treaty signing in Washington, 9 
r,.m. here; the r,resentation of a 
'flag of peace ' to the captain of the Norwegian c.ruise ship Sagafjord as it carried 400 Amencan passengers through the Suez Canal; the piping of ship whistles along the canal. 
Many Egyptians had mixed feelings about the post-treaty period. They were relieved that the stateof war was ending, but continued to have doubts about how much the Israelis can be trusted. 
"On the first day of peace, I shall be happy like every one else, like a man who is so drunk he can't think," ~aid George Dimitry, a retired ea_cher of English. . 
''But on the second day and thereafter I shall be thinking and watching. If the Israelis are arrogant and defiant, as they are said to be, then · it won't work." 
.. . Peace 
{continued from page 1] 
unyielding rhetoric between the two countries. 
At the heart of the treaty is Israel's withdrawal over three years from the Sinai desert. 
A score ofJewish settlements are to be dismantled, "a pain" that Begin says he will suffer to his last days. 
Also, Israeli airfields will be de­mobilized and handed over to Egypt for civilian use. 
In return, Egypt ahs recog­
nized  Israel,  agreeing  to  an  
exhancge  of  ambassadors  10  
months after ratification.  

In support of the treaty, the United States has offered loans and grants of $3 billion to Israel and $1. 5 billion to $2 billion to Egypt. 
.. . SMCBoard 
[continued from page 5] the SMC English Department, in the Clubhouse at 8 p.m. The remaining activites in­clude a "Women in the Theater"' presentation on Thursday at 2 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge and the showing of the film, "Lady Sings the Blues," starring D1ana Ross, features the life of the legendary blues singer, BilJie Holliday. 
ffiotgenthau

The difficult negotiations of lems of inadequate bus service 16 months cooled much of the h~using shortages, rising 
when he answets the question

peace enthusiasm here, but pnces, broken sewer lines 
many Egyptians stilJ seemed powere failures and quixoti~optimistic Monday, particulady telephones. ab<?ut t~e prosperity they 
But after four wars that costbelieve wdl come with peace. 
billions of dollars and thou­
'Is Thete ~ New ~metiC:Qn I

"Is there anyone who hates sands of lives, suspicion andpe~e? No, it is good," said distrust linger on. Sadat andHaJJ Dmar, a 50-year-old door­
Foteign Policy?' ~ 

President Carter have been cast man at an apartment building as heroes in the governmedt­in the middle-class suburb of controlled media, but not ; so tomottow ni-ght, Wednesday match 28
Heliopolis. , Israeli Prime -:Minister·"Foe the last 30 years w~ 
Menachem Begin. at7:00pm in the Llbtaty Auditotium J
~ave mobilized all the rro~per­
..........................................._._....._..............................................................

Ity we had and it was al gone to :'Begin loves problems," making bullets. With peace sai~ black-robed Ha_gga everything is bound to work Fauma:> who serves coffee from 
... --.. .....

better and the leaders can look a hole-m,-the-wall shop in down­at the internal situation instead town Cairo. ,'He is still afraid 
ESPANOL ESPANOL ESPANOL ESPANOL 

of always wocrying about t~at the Arabs wiH gang up on Israel " h · d him. He should speak niCely to
• e sru. · . 

the Egyptians and they willMany Egyptian _city dwellers respond to him." ... ·contend dady with the prob­
========================= 
EL CUERPO DE PAZ Y VISTA NECISITAN SU FACILIDAD)EN EL IDIOMA ESPANOL Y SU PREPARACIQN PARA PODER LUCHAR CONTRA

Jews greet peace with 
LA POBREZA, 
HAGA UN ANO CON VISTA TRABAJANDO CON

restrained celebrations 
TEL AVIV (AP) -Although worried about the price of their treaty with Egypt, Israelis put up flags and banners procahm­ing "Shalom" in honor of the dawn of peace yesterday after 30 years as a fortress counrry at war. 
Celebrations were restrained, and Israelis in this city of 380,· 000 showed little inclination to rejoice spontaneously. Officials left the opotion of whether to organize celebrations up to 
local communities. 

Large screen were erected in several towns so Israelis could gather in public and watch the live telecast of the Washington signing ceremony. A spec~ I stamp was issued in honor of peace, and quickly sold out. Youth movement members laid flowers on the tombs of war dead throughout the country. 
The newspaper Maariv 
splashed color reproductions of 
the Egyptian, Israeli and Amer­
ican flag across its front page 
and editorialized: ''This is the 
day we hoped for." 

But Ettie Shahar, a 25-year-old 
hairstylist, reflected the mis­
givings of many Israelis when 
she said: 'I'm scared. Even if 
the Egyftians do want peace, 
how wil they stay out if other 
Arab states attack us? How can 
they stand against their own 
brothers?'' 

Social worker Rachel Aran said: 
"I feel I don't know enough 
about what we are giving up. I 
get the feeling that each time 
we made a concession we left 
the Egyptians with less prob­
lems in case they want to attack 
us in the future. " 

In the occupied West Bank and 
Gaza Strip, demonstrations 
SMC-ND _ 

sponsors film 
"Something Beautiful for God," a fdm about the work of Mother Theresa of Calcutta, will be shown tonight at 7 and 9 
p.m. at the Carroll Hall auditor­
Ium at SMC. The World Hunger Coalition, 
N.D. Knights of Columbus Council, and the N.D.-SMC Right to Life group are sponsor­ing the film. 
CAMPESINOS MIGRANTES Y.rOTROS POBRES 

URBANOS Y RURALES AQU EN LOS ESTADOSwere reported by Palestinians 
who complain that the treaty 
UNLPOS 0 TRABAJE POR DOS ANOS EN UN 

ignores their rights. 
PAfS DEL TERCER MUNDO D~ LATINO

''I think the Palestinians will 
AMERICA COMO UN VOLUNT~RIO DEL CUERPO

have to fight to get their 
DE PAZ,

rights,'' said an Arab youth of 13 in Manger Square in the 
"" .

West Bank village of Beth-
POR EL TRABAJO MAS DIFICIL QUE USTED 

lehem. _ 
PUEDE. AMARJ LLAME AL

The Israeli media did their best to strike a festive note. State 
(313) 226-7928 (collect)

radio and television organized marathon trans-Atlantic broad­casts of the Washington cere­monies, and changed some of 
0 BUSQUE UN CONSEJERO EN

their usual signature tunes to the opening bars of the old Hebrew folksong "Heveinu Shalom Aleichem'' (We Bring Peace upon You.) 
The rrmy radio network tele­phoned American personalities throughout the day and broad­~ast their reactions to the sign­mg. 
A possible explanation for Is­
rael's restrained reaction came from a Jerusalem psychiatrist Nichael Abruskin, who attribut­
I

ed the apathy to "anxiety con­cerned with the unknown.'' I 
Abruskin said that ''however paradoxical it may sound, the I Israeli will feel secure when he 
I

knows he has enemies on his borders, and he knows how to I deal with that." 
But on the Egyptianfront,he said, the Isrl!eli "ts groping his I way emotionally toward a new kind of nei~hbor.'' I 
He said ''.. .it is difficult to concede that the enemy has be­come a friend overnight.'' He I estimated this mood could last 
I

two to five years. 
I

Women's 
I

softball 
I 

to meet 
There will be an organiza­tional meeting and practice today at 4:15 for anyone inter­I ested in trying out for women's softball at Stepan Center. 
The purpose of the practice is 
I 

to determme whether there is sufficient interest in forming such a team. 
Games have already been scheduled against Bethel Col­lege, Purdue at Calumet, Grace 
The Placement Center March 27-29. 
~RPS VISTA 
------1 
RIVER CITY 
.\ RECORDS I I I I 
South Bend's Largest Record I I
and Tape Selection 
I I 
$1.00 OFF I
coupon 
I 
S1.00 off any -album or rape with this coupon. Limit I. I Now thru April II. Not good on cut-outs, imports or other sale items. Coupon must be presented before purchase is 
.rung into cash register. 
eND-SMC chelk accepted for up to $20.00 over I 
purd1ase amounr. Ie17 ,000 a! hums and tapes in stock now 1 .W'hy wait w choose from a small selection~ I 
River City Rewrds prohahly ha~ it in stod nnw. 
River City Records 50970 U.S. 31 N 3miles north ofcampus. Open 10 to 10, I 

College, and St. Mary's. 
~~~4~~li&L-------• 

The Observer 
******************************** 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES: 
********************************* 
Anyone interested in being a part ofnext 
years Junior Advisory Council is urged to sign up this week in the Student Activities Office( 1st floor Lafortune 
All other information can be obtained at 
[S~udent Activities Office or call Tom 1138. 
Tuesday, March 27, 1979-page 4 

experiences with Garwood 
ERWIN* N.C. (AP) ·Jim homesick. He was just as ''He wanted me to tell his Strickland, a former prisoner of interested in what was going on people at home that he was war, says Marine Pre. Roben on the other side as we were." alive and well over there," Garwood was one of his guards Garwood, who returned Strickland, a former Army pri­at the North Vietnamese prison home from Vietnam on Sunday, vate first class,. said. ''But that camp where he was held for 22 faces charges of desenion, was all he told me to tell them. months. soliciting U.S. forces to refuse Then he left on a nlltrnl '' 
''There's no question in my to fight, misbehavior as a 
.. r-----· 

mind that he helped them,'' prisoner of war, disloyalty and Strickland said that upon his , 
• 

I! 
Strickland said in an interview from his home near Erwin. He said when he first saw Gar­wood, the American was wear­ing the black pajama-like outfit of the Vietnamese and held a Soviet-made assault rifle. 
"He said his name was Roben Garwood," Strickland said Sun­
day.  "We'd  call  him  a  rat  
beahind his back.  We didn't  
feel sorry for him.  

"I kept thinking, here I am living like a hog and this dude's got it made," Strickland said. , 'You hate somebody like that. You try to figure out why they did it.'' 
Strickland said, however, Garwood never harmed any prisoners. In fact, he said, Gar­wood would steal eggs for the Americans to add to their ra­unlawful communication with 
the enemy. If convicted, he 
could face a firing squad. 
Garwood disappeared in September 1965 from an area near Da Nang. 
David Harker, another former POW who says .he knew Garwood, said last week that Garwood was a collaborator. Harker added, howeyer, that. "at no time did I feel he did personal harm to American prisoners ... I am totally op­posed to him bein~ held ac­countable ... he didn t try to get us to come over to his side.'' 
Strickland, a 32-year-old ship­ping clerk irl Dunn, said he rec­ognized Garwood's picture in newspapers and on television after it had been announced that he was returning to the 


Nobody makes better breakfasts than Golden Bear and, nobody gives 
you more for your money. Nobody. 
1. EGGS 
Two Grade A, extra large eggs served with hash browns, buttered toast. and jelly. 
. 

2. FRENCH TOAST 
Four half slices served with two strips of bacon or two porkies. 
tions. And he would tune a· United States. radio to the armed forces net-Strickland, who was captured in work. January 1968 near Da Nang, 
''He could have gotten in said Garwood spoke briefly to trouble for doing it,'' Strickland him before he was released said. "We'd listen to it for from the POW camp in October awhile,andyou could teil he was 1969. 
Buy Classifieds from 
The Observer 
michael&co. 
Hair Concepts 
'Hair designs for Men &Women, with the emphasis on Easy Care' open late tuea.-thura. 8pm Hotth 1-2 mile east of notte dame 18381 Edison at lnd 23 272-7222 South 2041 E.lreland at Ironwood master charge visa 291-1001 
• 
I 4li
'• hOWaQOhall • 
PR€S€TltS' 
thUR(jOOO maRshall anb 
return, he visited the families of several POWs. But he never attempted to contact Garwood's family. 
"Ifhe was a POW, I would have," Strickland said. "But he was on their side.'' 
''He made his bed hard. Let him lay in it,'' Said Strickland. 'I don't think they ought to blow him away or anything. But I'll say this, I'm going to be very bitterif theydon'tdo something ., . · him." 
• • . Security 
[continued from page 5] 
requiring cars leaving campus through the main gate to stop, ~owever, has not yet been put m place. Wall indicated that this third sign would be erected b>: :rhursday, weather per­
mtttmg. 

the j:ORqotten teqacy 
0~ 

3. WAFFLES 4. PANCAKES 
BROwn VS th€ BoaRb 0~

Three pancakes
One waffle 
served with two
served with two 
€bucat1on

strips of bacon
strips of bacon 
or two porkies.
or two por\o(ies. 
25th 3nniV€RSaRy o~ th€ BRown cas€ 
tu€sbaymaRch 27 7:30pm 

:';2820 U.S...U North-South Bend • 6111 Crawfordville Road-South Bend . • 921 West McKinley-Mishawaka 
tn howaRb hall
•
IC 

(Offer ends April 30. 1979) 

al€ctUR€BY 
pRor· kenneth R~ppte 

CLC votes to add OC tc tnem.bership 
by Don Schmid 
StaffReporter 

The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) voted last night to add the judicial cO< ·-dina tor and the off-campus commissioner to the studem membership of the CLC. 
Three of the four bunches of studem government (Student Body Presidem, Student Union, Hall President's Council, and the Judicial Council) are al­ready represented on the CLC. 
By adding the off-campus commissioner to its member­ship, the CLC will seek to handle off campus problems. The CLC feels the Off Campus Commission has not proved to be an effective body for dealing with these problems in the past. 
The council also discussed the question of the HPC's student representation on the 
CLC. The CLC voted to set up a transition committee consisnng of the four current hall vice­presidents serving on the CLC. The committee/lans to educate candidates an voters and to stay in touch with the HPC about next year's student representation. 
The CLC also passed a resolution recommending that next year's CLC consider ex­panding the pool of potential candidates for student repre­sentation. 
SMCBoard finalizes 
Women~ 
Week 
by Pam Degnan StaffReporter 

Plans for Women's Week, scheduled for Apr. 2-6, were finalized last night at the Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting. Emphasizing the role of women in music, literature and dance, Women's Week will focus upon the cultural achieve­ments of women from the Notre Dame and SMC campuses as well as from the South Bend area. 
On Monday, Apr. 2, a film, ''Anonia Greco: Porrrait of a Woman," will be shown at 
7:45 a.m. in the dining hall and again in the snack shop at 10 
p.m. The film fea~ures the spirited life of Antonta Greco, the first woman ever to conduct the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra. At 4 p.m., Gloria Kauffman, author of Feminist Humor, will give a presentation in Stapleton Lounge (LeMans Hall). Scheduled for 7 p.m. in Moreau Hall, artist Mar~o Huf will exhibit works depicung the evolution of women through art. 
On Tuesday in Stapleton Lounge, two presentations en­titled: "Fragmemation," and "Women in the Ancient Arts," will be offered at 1 p.m. and 3 p.m., respectively. A repeat showing of the Greco film will be shown in Carroll Hall at 8 p.m. 
Wednesday's acttv1ttes are highlighted by a presentation to be given by the Indiana W omc;n Caucus for Ans at 1 p.m. m Stapleton Lounge and a poetry reading session sponsored by 
[continued on page 3] 
The CLC amended and passed a proposal that requests the Provost to present an annual report on the implemen­tation of the coeducation pro­gram submitted by the commit­tee to evaluate coeducation last year. The program endorsed by the Board of Trustees in May of 1978. 
The CLCurged the Provost to give this program the highest priority. They also sou~~t clarification as to which admini­strators are charged with the execution of each proposal in­cluded in the program, and what action has and will be taken on these proposals. 
Security reports 
• 
cnmes 

byJohn McGrath Senior StaffReporter 
Notre Dame Security re­
ported only two incidents of 
criminal activity over spring 
break. Director of Security Joe 
Wall reponed that a stereo was 
stolen from a room in Carroll 
Hall, and that a bomb threat 
was received from a caller who 
reponed that a bomb had been 
planted in the baseme~t of the 
Memorial Library. 

The stereo was stolen from 
Room 405 Carroll Hall. The 
break-in was reported to secur­
ity ~t 2:58 a.m. Saturday 
mormng. 

Reginald Payne a resident of 
409 Carroll, reported that he 
had heard something fall in the 
room down the hall and notified 
the rector. 

''After I called, I went down 
to check out what was going on 
and I saw that the panels were 
broken on the door," Payne 
said. Apparently , the intruder 
gained access through the 
damaged door. 

The owner of the stolen 
stereo equipment, who asked to 
remain unidentified, estimated 
the stereo's worth at between 
$1400 and $1500 brand-new. He 
reported that a receiver, tape 
deck, turntable, and two 
speakers, were all taken in the 
break-in. Nothing else was 
reported missing. 

Wall reported that the bomb 
threat was _received Saturday 
night at 8:58. The caller was 
identified only as ''a real young 
female." The Notre Dame Fire 
Department was notified while 
security personnel combed the 
basement of the library in 
search of explosive devices. No 
bomb was found. 

Wall also reported that secur­ity has placed new stop signs at two campus intersections. Three-way stop signs have been placed at the intersection of the Saint Mary's Road and Lake Road near the Grotto, and at the interesection of Notre Dame Ave. and Dorr Rd. near the main gate. 
Wall indicated, however, that only two of the planned three signs have been erected at the Notre Dame Ave. intersection. Inbound traffic on Notre Dame Ave. must now stop as well as traffic flowing toward the main gate from Dorr Rd. A sign 
(continued on page 4) 

Tuesday, March 27, 1979-page 6

Editorials 
First in aseries 
Understanding the Gay Rights Issue 
Editor's Note: The following is "happy," is used· to define the first in a series ofcolumns those that are not necessarily dealing with the subject of bogged down by sexual stereo-homosexuality. The author of typing and conditioning, that the columns is a member ofthe gay people have the potential Gay Students of Notre Dame for being the happiest of per-and Saint Mary's, an organiza­sons since they do not hmit tion currently seeking-official their sexual and romantic recognition from the Univer­attractions, then the issue sity. might become more clear. 
This brings us to the second 
Almost a month after the general point. Obviously, from television program that what we see or read about, featured four gay srudents of most gay people seem far from Notre Dame, it seems time to the "happiest of persons." follow up with a few articles on Their lives seem wrought with the subject. As one of the four problems of infidelity, promis­srudents, I feel I have a lot to cuity, and general malcontent. say about the program, -the Here lies the great fallacy of reactions that followed, and gay life. Although it may be about the subject of being gay true that a lot of gay people are in general. One of the most discontent, it has nothing to do startling facts about being gay with their gayness per se. The at Notre Dame and Saint real problem is the gay's Mary's is the near-ignorance adjustment into a terribly that most srudents and faculty straight world, one that is filled have about. gay people and-with straight ~hilosophies, 
about gay life. I hope I can clear up some of the miscon­ceptions and provide pertinent information for all the gay people who are too afraid to "come out" as well as all the straights here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Before I discuss specifics, some general ideas should be 
brought forward. Terminology is always a problem in such Issues, so perhaps we can rron that out right away. First, it is 
. best to think of lifestyles or sexual preferences as either homosexual or heterosexual, and not to consider persons as such. A person is not a homosexual or a heterosexual unless he or she likes to think of themselves as purely sexual. I believe this 1S one of the reasons the terms "gay" and "straight" came into use. 
For most, 'j'ay'' means homosexual an "straight" means heterosexual. But, according to Donald Clark Ph.D., a psychologist -and author of the book Loving Someone Gay, the label "gay" refers to a broad sexual prefer­ence. A person is gay when he or she recognizes the potential for sexual attraction to and fulfillment from both sexes. A person is straight if they recog nize this potential for members of the opposite sex only. Dr. Clark says that if you have ever been attracted to a member of the same sex, if you have ever become sexually aroused by looking at a member of the same sex, then you are gay. Therefore, he says, all of us are born gay and either remain that way or rum straight. 
Granted, this view see.rns immediately objectionable for most. But it makes sense when applying Clark's defmition of hte word gay. The unfortunate problem is that, these days, the term gay carries many adopted synonyms: queen, fag, priss, and the rest. If people would only understand that the term gay, a true synonymt for straight instiruuons, and a strai~ht mind-set. One fmds this m full glory here in the ND-SMC community. Several aspects are involved. 
When a person realizes he is gay, i.e. that he can be attracted to both sexes, especi­ally if he has a homosexual 
o=:r::ie::n:t::a::tl::.o:n:!:'::::i::t:::is=a:m=:il::e:s::to::n::e::=in:::::::ffil=:.s:::c::u:::ity~=a=n=d=th=e=ir=="~p=ic::k==:u=p:::'='=:g=a~y=w=o=rl=d=to=d=a~y::,:::::!q::u::ic:=k::,=u=n=in=-========Ma==rk=A=m=en=t=a 
-

Subsidize Medical Education 
Many junior pre-med sru­
dents spent their spring breaks 
srudying for the dreaded Med­
ea! College Admission Test. 
Frightening to these and to 
juniors across the nation, 
however, is the fact that the 
relatively few students 
admitted to medical schools 
may be reduced substantially; 
those who do gain admittance 
will face ruition so high that 
collectively, they will borrow 
some $250 million by gradua­
tion; with interest, they will 
have to repay $875 million. The 
reason: a proposed cut in 
federal funding. 

President Carter in his fiscal 
1980 budget has proposed clip­
ping the entire program of 
tederal payments to medical colleges. The schools and the students have reason to worry because the Senate save the President a partial victory; it reduced funding for the . pro-
his life. But, once he faces this, he must confront the world around him which is generally unaccepting. At frrst, or per­haps for many years (if not for the rest of his life), the gay person will have to h1de what he truly feels. He cannot talk about it with friends and family. 
He cannot read about it openly, but must hide in locked rooms looking up faulty defmitions in backward encyclopedias. He cannot date the people he would like to, nor kiss, hold hands with, or dance with the people he would like to. He must remain completely celi­bate, even to the extent of refraining from noticing people that attract him. Or he may go a different route and experience all sorts of sexual endeavors in seedy men's rooms and book store back rooms. These are his options. 
If he has "come out" to his good friends and has managed to meet some gay people, he maY. begin to lose his forced cehbacy or decadence. But his gay social life must be confined to clandestine meetings with other gay people and weekend trips to the local gay bar. Gay bars are known for their pro-atmosphere. Narurally--they are the only placeswhere gay people can act the way they feel, and the only placethey can socialize. 
If a gay person has come out to the world, he still has a limited social life. fn fact, his life can become even more of a struggle than before. Half of his concern for sexual freedom is well expressed in intellectual talks and relevant conversa­tions with straight friends, family members, maybe even television interviewers. But the other half, his romantic, rela-. tionship-oriented side is still lacking. If he has developed a relationship with one person, all the amenities of the relation­ship seem best left behind closed doors. Very few straights will tolerate a gay couple walking hand in hand down the street. 
If he hasn't developed a relationship, he is still forced to find fulfillment at the bar.,; or the "baths." The baths are, all things considered,places for gay people to go to have sex for one all-mclusive co~er charge. Why do such places exist? Why are gay bars usually sex-oriented? In most of the volved sex is a common aspect of life. All the Jess intense 
-,aspects of relationships are not allowed. It is like forcing a person to have only one meal a week. Of course he will guzzle down the meal with little con­cern for table manners, dinner conversation or personal hygiene. And, probably, he will get sick afterwards. Thus we have the unhappiness in gay life--not because lt is inherently unhappy, but because most of the ume it is not allowed to be anything else. All of these things--tbe ignorance of gay people about their own lives, the unaccept­ance, the clandestine atmos­phere, the promiscuity, and the lack of stability in gay relation­ships--are Eroblems that become ma~nified when placed in an envrronment like the ND-SMC community. Not only is gay life unaccepted, but · it is relatively unknown. I will never foq~et talking with a straight fnend about the issue before telling him I was gay. "You mean there are gay people here at Notre Dame?" he said with wide eyes. I knew I was irrfor a long conversation. 

gram in the fiscall979 budget. Government sources argue that there is no longer a need for funding because there is no longer a shortage of doctors; instead, _the current problem is that doctors are poorly distri· buted in terms of geography and specializatons. Although the physician shortage may be at end, even more federal funding is presently needed to cure the latter problem. 
True, it is politically unfash· ionable to advocate mcreased federal spending during a time ofeconomic austerity, but med­ical colleges depend on federal aid. It 1s unfair to suddenly forget the schools that have responded to national needs; the main focus of the funding in the first place was to increase the numbers of doctors in anticipation of a shortage, and consequently medical school enrollments have increa&ed substantially. Ironically, the colleges must now suffer because they have successfully increased the supply of doctors. 
In fact, Cornell Medical Col­lege estimates that without federal monies, ruition would increase twenty percent. 
Instead of subsidizing med­
. ical schools, Congress proposed a srudent loan program where young doctors could face pay­ments as high as 25 percent of their income. This huge educa­tional · debt forces a youn~ doctor into a high paying speci­alty in a metropolitan hosf1tal. Therefore, it is impractica for a youns doctor to start his own practice or to become a family doctor in a small town where doctors are badly needed. The loan program, then, fails as an alternative to direct federal subsidies. The problem is that the taxpayer ultimately finances 
(41etL, 1 7/IINK IT lfJ4$ THe ~!N6 I /UA/.KCI) INTO MY K/TlHff!N ANP fO/JNP A t:1JiJPl& FANS 
60!N6 7HF?OtK3H THe 
7I?A5H CAN. I .. UH.. 
IUHM IS IT, JENNY?
, 
the young doctor's debt in the form of higher doctor's bills. So, why should the taxpayer pay billions in interest when it 1s far cheaper for him to give the money away through educa­tional grants? Ifmedical educa­tion was subsidized, the tax­payers would save much more 1n the long run in the form of lower doctor's bills. 
What is proposed here is the federal subsidization of medical education. It will solve the current problem of the poor distribunon of physicians; with­out educational debt as a bur­den, young doctors can freely choose where to work and in what to specialize. And, subsi­dizaton will save taxpayer's money in the form of lower doctors' bills. 
Greg Hedges AssistantEditorial Editor 


.. ANO FOR MORE a-1 7HB JIMMY 7HI/IJP{jCK£1<
l P&T!P&WNT, ~NOfjj 
~  stUITCJf liVE70 THE  
0  liTTle lm.B4POUR.'s  
MALIBU CANYON  
8/JNfiAlOIAJ.-'  

administration of . either institution.
_The Observer_ Editorial Board
The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief.......Rosemary Mills Features Editor .......Chris Stewart represent the opinion of a majority of Mana~ing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian 
• Box Q Notre Dame, IN 465.56 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor .......... Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ...... K. Connelly 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewis Business Manager .....Steve Odland newspaper published by students of able to all members of the community, News Editor ............ Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan the Umversity of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News Editor .......... Mike Shields Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is Saint M~'s Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ..... .Bob Rudynecessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Sports Editor ...........Mark Perry Controller ........... ] ohn Tucker 
Tuesday, March 27, 1979-page 7 

Features 
Magical Message -the Amazing Kreskin 
by Mike Cervini 
Energy! People want it, need it and seek it. Kreskin's got it! Kreskin tapping People Energy! 
Can you sell it? No! Can you horde it? No!! Can you at least trade it? No!!! What the heck can you do with it? Give it!!! 
Positive energy force could easily describe the world's most fam0us mentalist. But, "wonderment for lift·, says Kreskin, those would be my words." 
Wonderment, astonishment, bewil­derment, it makes little difference, they all fit, plus many more. But, leave the magician's trunk behind, let the abracadabras and presto changos fade, Kreskin' s talents contain a relevant message for us all. 
"If I had to narrow it down to two words," says Kreskin, "Love and compassion, that's what's important:" 
And the entertainer's "nothing up the sleeve" performances bear out that claim. The message keeps coming through; feel for other people! 
Kreskin's abilities ace not supema­tural. Quite the contrary! "The abilities I have," streses the 42-yeac­old performer," ace inherent in every­one." Does this mean that an ''Amazing' Kreskin' ' lies buried in every "joe" around the block, or maybe even the rector of my hall? NO!! Whew! "The average person," says Kreskin, "has too mariy outside distractions to really develop his capabilities." 
Then, what does it mean? "Empathy," continues Kreskin, silver specks glisten in his sandy brown hair as he moves intently forward in his chair. "We must get in touch with others by getting within another's feelings." 
Kreskin, a Seton Hall graduate and part time college instructor, is ex­tremely aware of the tension and social r.roblems on today's campuses. 
'Drugs and alcohol can be replaced by mind expanding techniques. Take something as simple as running. While you're moving, concentrate on the colors and beauty surcrounding 
you. It can become a kind of natural 
high." 

People sit and watch Kreskin per­
form one astounding feat after 
another, but many miss what it's really 
all about. The natural feelings that 
exist between people, that's the key. 
That's what Kreskin manipulates to 
accomplish his fantastic demonstra­
tions. He is hyper-sensitive, not 
extra-sensitive! 

''I'd like my abilities to be a force for change," explains the native New Jersian. "I have a great concern for 'the future." His 684 performances in 1978 is evidence of that concern. "I would like to make as many people as possible aware of things · they never realized before. I would like the satisfaction of knowing that I commu­nicated certain truths in a very 
dramatic way." 

Since the vast majority of his 
audiences ace college students, one of 
those truths contains a message for the 
them. "There ace no easy answers. 
Everything we have has to be earned, 
otherwise we'll let it slip away." 
Kreskin calls Notre Dame his second 
home. "Class that's what Notre Dame 
means." He feels no .students 
generate a genuine warmth. 
Expressing warmth is easy around 
this outgoing performer. Everyone is 
greeted with a piston like handshake, a 
big smile and half a hug around the 
shoulders. Kreskin and whoever he 
meets form an automatic symbiosis. 
He gives them energy, they give him 
energy and everybody vaults to a 
hi~her plane. It's natural electricity. 
H1s personality is sure energy in its 
conta~ious state. We're fortunate that 
Kreskm has brought his infection 
among us. 

"I'll keep performing, even 20 years 
from now. I want to keep to the 
abilities God has given me." 
Presently, Kreskin is looking for­ward to March 20. He will be playing a chess match blindfoldd, against two world champions at the United Nations Hotel in New York. 
I'm not one to predict the future, but 
I guarantee the result will be truly 
amazing! 

March 28-Apri/4 
Senior Arts Festival 
Opening Night, Wednesday, 28 March 
7:30 pm ISIS Gallery -Photography Openmg 
9:00 pm The Exhibit: Four short plays by Mack Amenta The Nazz 
11:00 pm Music at the Nazz • Nathan Stone, Hank Notac and Jazz Musicians 
Thursday, 29 March 
3:00pm Readings in Poetry and Prose -Race Book Room 
Friday, 30 March 
10:00 
am Architectural Designs and Projects: Great Hall, O'Shaughnessy 

10:00 
am -4:00 pm Architectural Designs and Projects: Great Hall, 0'Shaughnessy 


8:00 pm Readings and Music ­Library Lounge 
Saturday, 31 March 
7:30 pm ISIS Gallery -Visual Arts Openmg 
9:00 pm Two Plays by Samuel Beckett; two plays by Joe Carey The Nazz 
11:00 pm Music at the Nazz -Jim Speier and Company 
Schedule 
Sunday, 1 April 

4:00pm Cantata; Notre Dame Chapel Choir seniors -Sacred Heart Church 
11:00 pm Studio J WSND AM -''The Homecoming of Beorhtnoth Beorhtheim's Son" by J .R.R. Tolkien 
Monday, 2 April 

3:00pm Race Book Room-Readings in Poetry and Prose 
7:00pm ISIS Gallery-an opening of Three Dimensional Art 
8:00pm Two plays by Samuel Beckett -directed by Cynthia Dykhoff 
10:00 pm Improvisation night at the Nazz 
Tuesday, 3 April 

3:00pm Readings in Poetry and Prose -Library Lounge 
8:00pm Three Plays from the Wakefield Cycle -directed by Luis Gamez 
10:00 pm Music at the Nazz -Stever Rogers and Tim Keogh, Sue Georgen and Bruce McCaffrey As anrone who truly has grown up 
knows, fairy tales ace not just for 
children. 
In fact, the late author of the 
fantastic ''The Chronicles of Nacnia,'' 
thought avoiding fairy tales was 
immature. ''When I was ten, I read 
fairy tales in secret," C.S. Lewis 
confessed, "and would have been 
ashamed ifI had been found doing so. 
Now that I am fifty I read them openly. 
When I became a man I put away 
childish things, includin~ the fear of 
childishness and the deslfe to be very 
grown-up.'' 
This spring, adults can follow Lewis' lead and jom their children in the enjoyment of the first television adap­tation of ''The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe," the first book in Lewis' "Chronicles" series. The 2-part animated special produced by the Children's Television Workshop (CTW) and solely sponsored by Kraft, will air at 8:00p.m. (ES'I) April I and 2 on the CBS Television Network. 
In recent years the Children's Television Workshop, best known for it award-winning series, "Sesame Street" and "The Electric Company," has expanded the scope of its pro­grammmg to include shows for family audiences. Recognizing the universal appeal of "The Lion," CTW obtained television rights for the story from the Episcopal Radio-1V Foundation, Inc., which had been assigned broadcast rights by the Lewis estate. 
Kraft, Inc., a company which has been outsP.oken about the need for better family pro~ramming, decided to sponsor the proJect, and .t~e Special was announced at a JOint press conference December 14, 1977. 
Lewis' Following Grows 
Lewis' captivating series of seven stories which comprise ''The Chronicles" has gathered an ever­growing following of adults as well as children since the first book was published in 1950. The Macmillan Company, U.S. publishers of the series, reports it sells more than a million copies annually, with college campuses accounting for an important share of the sales. 
Perhaps one reason Lewis' fairy tales ace read by adults and children is that he wrote them for his own 

On CBS-TV 
pleasure. He did not stop to think what children would enjoy. Rather, 
' Lewis liked eating, so he put in plenty ofgood food; he liked magic and myth, so he added witches and centaurs and nymphs. Lewis believed that persons who enjoyed what he did would read the story and re-read it whatever their age. As he once explained in a lecture, ''I am almost inclined to set it up as a canon that a children's story which is enjoyed only by children is a bad children's story. The good ones last." ''The Lion, the Witch and the W acdrobe'' is the story of two brothers and two sisters who cross through an 
enchanted wardrobe into the m=~~~al 
world of Nacnia, land of t · g animals and mythical creatures. They discover Nacnia is under the evil power of the White Witch who brings eternal winter to the land and turns her enemies to stone. The Witch bribes the younger brother to betray the others, but they escape her clutches and join the noble lion Aslan to lead the forces of good. The Witch is defeated; and the children become rulers ot Nacnia until magic returns them to their former lives. 
Lessons of''The Lion'' 
Young and old readers of the story ace attracted by its humanity. While the basic struggle is between good and evil, none of the characters is perfect except Asian, the creator and guiding force of Nacnia. The creatures of Nacnia and the children exhibit various human weaknesses which they must 
-overcome to survive. 
There ace lessons here in love, friendship, loyalty, brave.ry and honesty, although the author said he did not start out to write a moral tale. Lewis, whose stories originated with "pictures" in his mind, aClvised other writers, "Let the pictures tell you their own moral. For the moral inherent in them will rise from whatever spiritual roots you have succeeded in strikin~ during the whole course of your life.' 
Lewis believed that the only moral of any value, like the only story of ;uty value, had to come from within. For him, the best authors of so-call "children's" stories wrote from "the 
-common, universally human, ground they share with the children, and indeed with countless adults." 

~-------~------~ -----­
~ 
The Observer 
Tuesday, March 27, 1979-page 8 
..... ''LITE TASTES GREAT AND IT'S LESS FILLING. IALSO UKE THE ·OPENING CAN:' BubbaSmith Former All-Pro Uneman @1978 MiiiBr Brewing Co•• ~.  Wia.  

---------~--­

Ritz offers "reasonable perfection" 
PARIS (AP)-Legend has it that on Aug. 2~. 1944, while the rest of the Allies were liberating Paris, Ernest Hemin~way head­ed straight for the Rttz, person­ally liberating the hotel bar where he had spent so many days and nights during the golden era between wars. 
The same legend, embellished over the years, says the writer blasted a hole in one of the famed hotel's toilets with a gun. 
The first part of the tale has been verified by the barman who recalls Hemingway arriv­in~ in his war correspondent's untform with a submachine gun over his shoulder. The question of the toilet, however, remains legend and is part of the hazy body of fact and fant~sy sur­rounding what probably is the world's best known hotel. 
The Ritz, whose name now is part of many languages as synonymous with elegance and luxury, still attracts the world's richest and most discerning visitors, but ownership of the 80-year-old institution on the Place Vendome has passed to a secret Arab consortium. 
Ritz managing director Ber­nard Penche confirmed last week that the majority of shares had been transferred form a British company to Ritz Paris Holdings Ltd., a company based on the British tax haven island of Jersey. The only name known to be attached to the company is that of Mo­hammed AI Fayad, a 50-year­old British businessman of Egy­ptian birth. The French press reports a sale price of$42.8 million and that is only for the building and good­will. The solid-gold land of the Place Vendome underneath re­mains the property of French interests. 
There is widespread specula­tion that other Arab investors are behind Fayad. A group of Saudi Arabian oil magnates wanted to buy the hotel but pulled out when the French government demanded a 25­year guarantee that it remain a hotel, not be made into chic 


A new production of "The Fire bird" will be performed by The Southold Dance Theatre at its Spring Concert Saturday at 8 
p.m. at St. Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The orchestra for Southold's presentation of "The Firebird" will be conducted by Zeal Fisher. Composed by I$or Stravinsky, the ballet was first presented in Paris in 1915. 
''The Fire bird'' will make up the second act of the Spring Concert. Other works from the troupe's repertoire, ranging 
• • • Magic
• 
[continued from page 12] 
although it almost ran out of 
gas coming down the finish 
line. ''A little science and a 
little Magic" carried the MSU 
motors team to the title of ''Car 
of the Year. '' 
Meanwhile, word has it that 
the people at Phelps Engineer­
ing are designing a new model 
for next year. They lost a 
couple parts form thts year's 
machine, but word has it that 
they are bringing in some 
replacements from Michigan 
and Ohio. The Irish sedan will 
ride again next year. 
-------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------_J 
offices. 
A hotel spokesman said the change in ownership will not mean a change from the phil­osophy of Cesar Ritz, the Swiss hotelier who established the Ritz in 1898, stressing ele­gance, atmosphere, service, and above all, discretion and privacy for guests. 
There Is o conncection now ·be­tween the Ritz here and any other Ritz hotel, but the hotel has a copyright on the name and any hotel wishing to use it must ask permission. 
Asked once for his definition of 
"Ritz," Charles Ritz, the foun­
der's son who died in 1976, 
replied: "Ritzy simply means 
reasonable perfection.'' 
In an effort to achieve that ''reasonable perfection,'' the hotel always has maintained a ratio of two staff members for each guest. 
The Ritz is not the world's lar­gest hotel, not the most expen­sive. Its 209 rooms range from about $9~ for a single to about $156 for a double, plus a 15 percent service charge. There are 46 suite.s, including three grand suites, the largest of which costs $600 a day. 
"It's not a snob hotel, but a hotel of privacy and descre­tion," the spikesman said. People like to be called by their names, he said, not referred to as room numbers. 
''The Ritz is your home away from home," he said. That is, of course, if you have the means and taste for such a home. 
Marcel Proust, one of the hotel's early habitues who has known to send a driver to the Ritz at odd hours for iced beer, said he liked the hotel because "there is not jostling." Indeed, the first impression one receives when passing through the main entrance is quiet, uncrowded tranquility. People speak in low voices. Employees slip quietly about their duties or wait unobtrusively for the slightest sign from the custom­ers. The history of the Ritz' clientele is a veritable Who's Who: 

Dance Theatre to perform 
from the classical to the con­temporary, will comprise the first act. 
"Glass Menagerie" will open the concert. Also on the program are "What Was That?", "Waltz for One," ''Death Shall Have No Domi­nion," "Youth," "Ghost Dance" and "Gotta Move." 
Tickets for the Southold Dance Theatre Sprin~ Concert are $3.50 and available at Century Center and the O'Laughlin box office. 
AlmANDO'S 
BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 1437 N .Ironwood Dr. South Bend 277-0615 
Sue, Ruthie, Kim 
Armando-stylist 
mon-fri 8-5:30 sat 8-2 by appt. only sat-no appt. needed 

Winston Churchill, the Aga Khan, Scott Fitzgerald, the Duke and Dutchess of Windsor, Garbo, Hayworth, Rockefeller, Carnegie, Woolworth. 
The German Luftwaffe chose the Ritz during the occupation. Coco Chane! was a resident for years and died at the hotel in 1971. Richard Nixon enjoyed the strict privacy of the Ritz while preparing for a 1978 apJ?earance on French tele­vtston. 
"Discretion is the first rule," the hotel spokesman said. "If somebody tells us he does not want to be disturbed, nobody can reach him, not even his wife, not even in an emer­gency." 
Remembering a !11-dy' s favorite flowers, a customer's particular whim or favorite room, sug­gesting wines from the famous cellar, advising on the theater, arranging transportation, or carrying out personal errands are what the hotel always has considered its duty. 
But the clientele, 60 J.>ercent of 
it American, is changmg. The 
leisured rich are scarce and the 
businessman is the new class. 
The Ritz mana~ement does not 
seek large busmess meetings, 
preferring small receptions, 
luncheons and private dmners. 
Why has the Ritz over the years 
been such a magnet for Amer­
icans? 
''Americans will spend more 
money for deluxe accommo­
dations," the spokesman said. 
"It's a mentality. Germans 
may have as much moeny, but 
not the mentality. In America, 
the Ritz is a symbol. 
People at the Ritz are aware of 
their rich history but do not dwell on it. They pride them­selves on keeping up with the modern amemties while main­taining the traditional style, paintings, marble and tapes• tries. Suites are wood-paneled, with old, highly polished brass fittings. Four pushbuttons will call the maid, the winewaiter, room service -or the guest's personal serva11t in his quar­ters. 



A MILOS FORMAN ,.., RAGNI, RAOO ... MacDERMOfS "HAIR" · g..,.. JOHN SAVAGE· TREAT WILLIAMS· BEVERLY D'ANGELO· ANNIE GOLDEN ·DORSEY WRIGHT DON DACUS· CHERYL BARNES ... MELBA MOORE -e~~ GEROME RAGNI, JAMES RADO .......~~GALT MacDERMOT -·"'""""""ROBERT GREENHUT o-a~_..., MIROSlAV ONDRICEK 
-.;,..,.,MICHAEL WEllER ClooooF""""' lWYLA THARP ,..... ., LESTER PERSKY... MICHAEL BUTLER "'"""., MILOS FORMAN ACIP Feature Panavtsoo" Technicolol" I. Ooogonal Mol~n ~clure Sound Track Album on RCA Reccr<d' &lal"l I [][)I DOlBY STBE:I r , ... hocl g.,. 
PG rMUITAlGUIIWliCESUGGESTtO~ copyuqt~tr t979'Un•tl!dA•,,t.ColpAt••ll)'l""'w'"'•d TUnlf•dArtiSls 
IOiftMAnii...~MA,..OfMII.N'I&IUI~CotiUI'Itlll lJ Alr•n•amt'ft<.IIC~ny 
COMING SOON 

The Observer Tuesday, March 27, 1979-page 10 
POW 
Garwood 
•

reunttes with family 
GREAT LAKES, Ill. (AP)­Jack Garwood said yesterday 
there is "no way" that his son, Marine Pfc. Robert Garwood, who was missing in Vietnam for nearly 'l4 years, is guilty of desertion or other charges that could lead to his execution. 
"Idon't believe them (the charges), "the senior Garwood said. He added that whatever his son did, it should warrantpo more than "a spanking." · 
The elder Garwood said nod~ ing could compare with his re': union with his son, who was de­clared a prisoner ofwar in 1965. 
The Marine's brother said it "started raining in the room." 
The reunion came Sunday after Garwood, accused of desertion and collaborating with the Viet Cong, arrived at the Great Lakes Naval Training Center where he is undergoing medical tests. 
His father said at a news con•. 
ference yesterday he had not 
lieved he would see· his son un­
til "I could reach out and touch 
him. Then I knew it was my 
boy. Beautiful. Best thing that 
could ever happen to anybody. 
I still haven't gotten over it. 
Butterflies.'' 
Garwood, a 33-year-old Indiana 
Molarity 
native, could face a firing squad 
if convicted of all five charges . brought against him. 
The senior Garwood, from Greens burt, Ind., said that when he first saw his son in the hospital room Sunday, "We just looked up, and hugged each other something fierce. It was beautiful. " ­
Michael Molinelli 
NOWI J.!,A.V£-rD PUTUP 
WrTH ALL THE BRONZE BODIEs 
lnUL.I..IWV 
AROUND CAMPUS JUST BECAUSE I DIDN'T GET 10 FLORIDA OVER BR£AK 
== ~ 0 
\) 

If you're planning · · summer study '' and live in the 
New York, New Jers :_ Connecticut area, · there's one school 
. you should consider. 
IONA. An independent four year college in Westchester County offering: 
• 
Graduate and undergraduate courses 

• 
Courses you want-in a concentrated time span 

• 
Convenience-dose to home and the City 

• 
An informal, productive atmosphere in air conditioned classrooms 


Summer Session undergraduate courses are Gffered Monday thru Thursday in the Arts, Business and the Sciences in day, and evening sessions. 
First Day Session-June 4th-July 13th 
Second Day Session-July 9th-August 10th 
First Evening Session-June 4th-July 6th 
Second Day Session-July 9th-August 10th 
Summer Graduate courses are also offered toward an M.B.A. and an 
M.S. in Education. 
Check out lona during your spri~g break. The Summer Session affords you the opportunity to make-up and get a jump on your Fall programs. Check in by completing the coupon, or call for more information. 
• New Rochelle, NY 10801 I (914) 636-2100 

I 
1 Name _________~--------------~~--Please send more information 
: Address -----------------:-.----­
about 1City----------State ___ Zip ____ Summer Sessions 
1I Telephone_______________ at IONA. 
--------------------------------~ 

IF I 6ET £1JoVGH SUN,I DoN'T TAN-I GLDIJ IN 
TJ+E MRK. -...r¥..-­
~.~·:1­
0 ~~y~~
o«(\m-~~~~
0 ~~ ~ 
~'{\'0\ 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
35 Hunting dog 
1 Magnesium 
36 Anglo-Saxon
silicate 
money
5 Noted name 
37 Pleistocene
in Ohio 
stage
9 Garden tool 
39 Mountain in 
12 Pseudonym 
Thessaly
14 Notworking 
40 Beermug
/ 15 Baptismal 
42 Likesome
basin 
towns
16 Horse 
44 Hesitates
blanket 17 Edible part 
45 Orange
18 Killer 
seeds 
whale 
46 Insect 19 Pretext 
47 Nonsense! 
22 Pork prod­52 Stare uct stupidly23 Fencing 53 Brewer's foil essential 24 Arid waste 54 Winged 27 Affection­56 Pub orders ate pats 57 Scots 31 Great pain Gaelic 32 Highway 58 Bumpkin division 59 Beetle 33 Sinew 60 --do-well 34 Street or 61 Trailer, horse for short 
DOWN result 1 Scotch cap 28 Magnani of 2 Word of woe movies 3 Bits of 29 Uncanny 
fluff 30 Graceful 4 Romance birds 
language 32 Balance 5 Shy sheet item 6 Arabian Sea. 35 Equestrians 
gulf 38 Evades 7 Ensign respon­8 Tied, as a sibility 
horse 40 Glide non­
9 Picnic game chalantly 10 Single time 41 Gum trees 11 Greek vowel 43 Goddess of 13 Wages plenty 15 Wooded area 44 Apt anagram 20 Malay 46 Pistol or 
isthmus polo 21 Unfold, 47 Nimbus to poets 48 ~ransporta­24 Sanctity or t1on cost iliac 49 Otherwise 25 Another 50 Garden tool time 51 Stalk 26 Unit of 52 Wander work restlessly 27 Produce a 55 Yale 

! 
--~·'---~ 

-------------------------------------------~·----·--------------------------------------~ 

In addition to his pinpoint passing and deadly shooting, Earvtn 
johnson also grabbed his share of rebounds. [Photo by Phil 
Stauder] 
Sports Wrapup 
Fencers second at NCAA tourney 
Mike DeCicco's Notre Dame fencers finished second in the past weekend's NCAA championships at Pr~ncet?n_. N.). Wayne State dethroned the two-time d~fendt_ng ttthst ~nsh squad, posting a 119 point total. The Ir~sh, wtth 108 pomts, edged third-place Penn State by one pomt. 
Notre Dame foilist Andy Bonk, in his first NCAA competition, won the gold medal by po~ting a_21-2 mark. He was also the recipient of the Outstandmg Fotl Fencer of the Year award. 
Mike Sullivan Notre Dame's all-time leading fencer, settled for the sil~er medal in sabre after los in~ a fence-off to Wayne State's Yuri Rabinovich, 5"2._ In hts four years, Sullivan has won two gold medals, a stlver and a bronze. 
Irish nine drop five ofseven 
Notre Dame's baseball squad opened its 1979 c~mpaign this past week in Florida by suffenng five setbacks m seven contests. 
Coach Tom Kelly's squad defeated Delaware {8-5) and Stetson (19-11) in addition to losing to Delaware {15_-7) and twice each to Central Florida (10-3 and 6-2) and Flonda (6-1 and 12-0). . 
The Irish are scheduled to play at Bethel thts afternoon, weather permitting. After a scheduled doubleheader at St. Joseph's on Saturday and a contest at Ball State next Wednesday, the Irish batsmen are sc~eduled to open at home on April 7, in a doubleheader agamst Northwestern. 
Golfers take fourth in Miami 
Coach Noel O'Sullivan's Irish golf squad finished a strong fourth out of 15 teams this past week at the Miami Invitational Golf Tournament. 
Notre Dame, with a score of 1255, was led by John Lundgren's 309 total. That mark was lith out of 96 indivtdual scores in the four-day tourney. Lundgren's top performance was an even par 71 on the second day of the competition. . . 
Captain Tim Saurs and Dave Knee ued for 17th, postmg scores of 313. Miami won the tourney with 1205, only one stroke ahead of Middle Tennessee State. Tampa was third with 1241. 
ND's size over-whelm.s Rockets 
by Paul Mullaney Assistant Sports Editor 
INDIANAPOUS--Toledo for­ward Jim Swaney wasn't about to make any excuses. But nevertheless, he couldn't help mentioning how Notre Dame's bulk played an important part in a 79-71 Irish victory on March 16 at Market Square Arena. 
''Underneath that basket it was really brutal," confessed the Rockets' representative on the all-Mideast Re~ional squad. 
"I wear a mouthptece, because I always go up against bigger guys--and I still lost a tooth out there." ~ 
Despite the dental loss, Swa­ney and Company never lost faith in their mission to upset co:tch Digger Phelps' Irish, whp were seeded at the top of the Mideast field. The Rockets of coach Bob Nichols, after takin~ bump~, bruises and a 10-pomt deflmt (43-33) into the locker room at the half, battled back to give Notre Dame a somewhat unex­pected scare late in the game. 
''They just never gave up,_'' said Notre Dame guard Btll Hanzlik. "Toledo has the toughest players, not necessari­ly talent-wise, that we've faced all year." 
Rocket center Dick Miller found some holes in Notre Dame's man-to-man defense, and hit Swaney underneath for two straight layups with 4:54 remaining, liftmg Toledo to within one point, 62-61. 
But after Irish forward Kelly Tripucka retaliated with a third­effort bucket with 4:11 remain­in~, Notre Dame switched to a stmgy zone defense, a~d To­ledo's offense became vtrtually inqperative. 
Hanzlik hit both ends of a one-and-one with 3:51 left, giving the Irish a five-point cushion. And after the Green and Gold rebounded a Miller airball moments later, they spread out their offense with three-and-a-half minutes to kill. 
Tracy ] ackson hit Rich Bran­ning for a backdoor layu.P at 1:49, and with 1: 17 left, Tnpuc­ka drove the left baseline for an opposite-hand stuff. It was Notre Dame's eighth straight point, giving the Irish a 70­61 lead and the inevitable opportunity to meet the winner ofthe Michigan State-Louisiana State contest for the regional title. 
"It was a very wise move on their part to ~o to a zone in the second half, ' said Nichols of Notre Dame's strategy. "They did a good job on the boards. That really hurt us in the first half.'' Notre Dame's 10-point inter­mission advantage was greatly due to its contr,Jl of both backboards. Toledo, which only managed on offensive rebound in the ~ <JI.(a, was outrebounded 18-9 ir. the first 20 minutes. 
Both teams shot well during the contest. Notre Dame was accurate on 53.8 percent of its chances, while Toledo hit at a .506 accuracy. But when the chips were down, it was Notre Dame that cashed in on them. 
"I really can't think of one turning point,'' offered Nichols. 
NOTRE DAME [791-Woolridge 5 1-2 11, Tripucka 88-8 24, Lalmbeer 32-2 8, Branning 4 2-3 10, Hanzlik 4 6-8 14, Jackson 2 Q-2 4, Flowers 14-4 6, Wilcox 0o-o 0, Mltchell1 o-o 2. Totals 28 23-29 79. 
TOLEDO [711 -Swaney 10 6-6 26, Appel 2 o-o 4, Miller 8 2-4 18, Joplin 0 0-2 0, Lehman 4 o-o 8, Selgo 4 o-o 8, Montague oo-o o, Knuckles 3 1-2 7, Mathis 0 0-0 0. Totals 31 9-14 71' 
''In the second half we pulled within one point, but either we couldn't make the shot that counts or they made a bigger play than we did." 
Swaney led all scorers with 26 points, while Miller was the only other scorer in double figures for the Mid-American Conference school. 
Tripucka led the Irish with 24 points. Hanzlik had 14, while Orlando Woolridge and Rich Branning respectively contribu­ted 11 and 10 points. 
"Every guy made a contribu­
•ion,'' said a relieved Phelps afterwards. """''e've ~ot a lot of confider.~ .t~ these ktds.'' 
"We ~ eren't trying to look ahead r •anybody. Our/layers saw t .at last weeken when North Carolina and Duke were both upset.'' 
If the Irish were to have been upset, however, it would have to be on a later date. 
MICHIGAN STATE (8111 -Brkovlch 5 3-4 13, Keiser 15 4·8 34, Charles 2 2·2 6, Donnelly 12·2 4, Johnson 6 7·8 19, Gonzalez 1 o-o 2, VIncent 1 o-o 2, Longaker oo-o 0. Totals 3118·24 80. 
NOTRE DAME (68J • Woolridge 1 1·2 3, Tripucka 40-Q 8, Laimbeer 3 1·2 7, Branning 4 o-o 8, Hanzlik 7 5-5 19, Jackson 9 1-4 19, Flowers 0o-o 0, Wilcox 2o-o 4, Mitchell 0o-o Totals 30 8·13 68. 

Classifieds 
Notices 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
Student loans $20-$150, 1 percent lnte· 
rest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune 
basement 11:3Q-12:30 M-F. 
Wanted 
Swimmers Needed! Like to swim? Help hlld 1 th 
a mentally handicapped c en oy e sport too! Lots of swimmers needed for the Monday night Learn to Swim Pro­gram, from 7:0Q-8:00 pm. You don't need to be an expert, the pool at Logan Center Is only 5 ft. deep at Its deepest . point. Help out at the LOQiln Pool for an 
hour Monday nights. If interested, call Mike 1371 Or Sue 41 -4832. 
VISTA TA Law -grads need to serve as VIS (Volunteers in Service to America).
Interested farmworker law? Community
development? Immigration law? Many Other areas. Contact VISTA throu~ the 
Placement Center· There will an information table In the LJbrary Con­
27 28 29

L~co~u~r~se_._M_ar_.__·_____·_s_M_c_o_n_M_a_r&
27th. 
LEGAL AIDES. Your background or degree In law could qualify you for 1-year VISTA (Volunteers In Service to Amer­ica). Projects In New York, Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas area. Assist lawyers in tenants' rights, housing legislation, legal research and education, /udlclal reform, etc. Paid travel, llv ng allowance, medical benefits. Contact VISTA through the Placement Center. There will b'l an information table In the Library Con­course Mar. 27, 28 & 29. SMC on Mar. 27th. 
Social workers are needed for grassroots projects all over the United States. 
Develop programs In public health, housing community development, youth counseling, services for the aging and handicapped. Travel, living expenses, medical benefits. Contact VISTA through the Placement Center. There will be an Information table in the Library Con-
SMC M

course· Mar. 27, 28 & 29. on ar. 
~­

ENGINEERS needed in developing nations to build dams, construct wells, bridges', roads and reservoirs. Design
& 1 d t 1 1 

electrical lns1allations n us r a pro­jects. Contribute to a better worlds. 
Contact Peace Corps through the Place­ment Center. There will be an informa­tion table In the Library Concourse Mar. 
27_._2_8_& 29_._s MConMnr.2nh.________~2~7~,2=8~&~2=9~-~S~M~C~o~n~Ma~r.~27~t~h.________u_p_ac_ts_.____________________________~~----------~-·n_n_e~ 
Business grads urgently needed for positions in VISTA (Volunteers In Service to America). Travel, living expenses, medical benefits. For information contact VISTA through the Placement Center. There will be an Information table In the Library Concourse Mar. 27, 28 & 29. SMC on Mar. 27th. 
Architects/Urban Planners. Your degree/work experience could qualify you, for 1-year VISTA (Volunteers in Service to America) positions In commu­nities all over America. Assist in neighborhood planning of projects such as recreation, parks an low-income 
housing. Train community residents In planning, funding and development deci­sion making. Paid travel, living allow­ance, medical benefits. Contact VISTA through the Placement Center. There will be an Information table In Library Concourse Mar. 27, 28 & 29. SMC on 
Mar. 27th. 
MATH & SCIENCE majors. Developing
nations In Africa, Asia and South America need energetic Individuals for challenging positions. Monthly living 
allowance, medical care, paid travel. Must be U.S. citizen with no dependents.
Contact Peace Corps through the Place­ment Center. There will be an informa­tion table In the Library Concourse Mar. 
[continued from page 12] 
It wasn't until the second halt that the Irish began to consis­tently connect from the peri­meter, however. And when they finally got their offense on track, their defense fell apart. 
''At the beginning of the sec­ond half we had that two-min­ute spurt which looked like we would be right back in the ~arne," said Phelps. "But they JUSt adjusted well.'' 
"Defensively is where we broke down. Everytime we made a run at them offensively, we ended up trading baskets.'' And that was' · the story for the entire secon':! half. Whenever the Irish would draw blood, the Spartans were quick to retal­iate. 
Hanzlik, who was given the as­signment of guarding Johnson, and Jackson did their best to keep Notre Dame in the contest offensively, leading the Irish 
All classified ads must be rece1ved by 5:00p.m .. two days prior to the issue in which the ad IS run The Observer office will accept c1ass1f1eds Monday through Fnday. 10 00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All claSslfleds must be pre-paid. either m person or through the ma11. 
LOST: Gold Seiko woman's watch. Please return-reward. Call 289-6711 or 232-6486 after 6 p.m. and ask for Candy. 
For Rent 
Room tor.rent with option to share house. Graduate student preferred. References required. Rent is negotiable. 289-0103 nights. 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7 Ralph Casperson, 1303 Buchanan Road, Niles. 683-2888. 
Personals 
Sluggo Rondello, To my favorite roomie---Happy 21s1! 
Take care. , 
~~~ 
sophomore class formal are now available [and going quickly] through your hall reps. 
Unkn-own talent? Outrageous comedy? Audition for the 2nd annual Gong Show _ 
· March 30, 9:30-? at Gulseppe's. Calle Marte 41 -4814 or Debby 41 ·4833 to sign 
... Keiser 
with 19 points apiece. 
Keiser, who was unanimously chosen as the tourney's Most Outstanding Player, received ample support from his team­mates. Johnson, in addition to his brilliant assist work, tallied 19 points, while Brkovich added 13. 
Keiser's 13 rebounds were also a game high. He also blocked two Irish shots. 
When the 6-7 native of Detroit was replaced with 51 seconds remaimng in the game, he stopped by the Notre Dame bench to receive a word of encouragement. 
''You guys got a great team,'' Phelps, congratulating Keiser, said. "Don't lose your com­posure and you can go all the way." 
With the way the Spartans looked on March 18, that looked like a safe bet. 
TJJ: Does dining hall food make you gag? Do you crave a night that won't drag? 
For a taste of high heaven, Be at Walsh Hall at seven. Don't show and we'll know you're a fag. BJK 
M. Thoughts of... a flower, a kiss, a smile on your birthday. 
J.• 
Michelle, 
You're such a wonderful girl! Have a wonderful birthday! From your wonder­ful friends. 
Mo, Ross and L.B. 
"The Toughest Job You'll Ever Love" A Peace Corps film featuring Peace Corps volunteers working In Nepal, Columbll and Niger. March 27th, 7:110 p.m. Lafortune Theatre. 
I NEED GRADUATION TIXII 
Will trade soul or $$$. Call Don at 255-6071 or drop a line to P.O. Box 481, N.D. 
'Barna
HI!, 
~ 
-j 

=====SRorts 
Michigan State cages Bird to capture title 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -Michi~an State threw a net around Larry Bird with a brilhant zone defense and Earvin ''Magic'']ohnson scored 24 points as the Spartans defeated the Indiana State Sycamores 75-64 Monday to win the NCAA basketball championships. 
The loss ended a Cinderella season for the Sycamores, who had stormed out of nowhere to the top of The Associated Press poll and had won 33 straight games before the final. 
Bird, who had been killing just about everyone this season with a 29.0 scoring average, had to work hard for his 19 points against the Spartans' two-three zone, which sagged on the blond bomber every time he went to the basket. 
The national championship was the first for Michigan State in its fourth appearance in this tournament. 
The Sycamores never led after the opening minutes and trailed by as many as 16 points several times early in the second half. But they made it interesting with a late 12-2 flurry behind Bird that chopJ?ed Michigan State's advantage to 52-46 with 10 m10utes left in the game. 
Johnson then spearheaded a rally that put the Spartans in command and quieted the usually raucous Indiana State fans in the noisy crowd of 15,410. 
] ohnson scored seven points in an 8-4 burst that moved the Big Ten Conference power's lead to 61-50 with 5:06 left in the game. 
The Sycamores never came within striking distance of the Spartans after that. 
Bird, who had been a terror in this tournament in four J?revious games, was so stymied by the rugged Michtgan State defense that at one point he went more than 13 minutes without a field goal. 
Four trouble hurt both teams in the closely called game, and the calls had both coaches bitterly complaining to the officials throughout the contest. 
Greg Keiser, who scored 19 points for the Spartans, put the cap on the game wtth an enormous slam dunk at the end and the Michigan State cheerleaders and some supporters rushed to hug their heroes. · 
While the Michigan State players danced joyously around the court, Bird sat disconsolately on the bench with his head buried in a towel, his great college career ended. . 
Bird, playing with a broken left thumb that never seemed to bother him earlier, was only able to connect on 7 of 21 shots from the fidd. 
Bird's eyes appeared red-rimmed when he went up to accept the runner-up trophy for the Sycamores. 
The Spartan~, though holdmg a 37-28 advanta~e, seemed to be 10 trouble because their two leadmg players, Johnson and Keiser, were saddled with three fouls apiecO\· Keiser had to sit out a good portion of the second half in foul trouble after scoring only nine points before intermission. 
Ron-Charles fouled out for Michigan State while Carl Nicks had to sit down for the Sycamores in the closim! minute~ ~f the game with five fouls. 
Tuesday, March 27, 1979-page 12 


Keiser, Spartans dunk Irish in Regionalfinals 
by Paul Mullaney Assistant Sports Edttor 
INDIANAPOLIS-All Gregory Kel~er needed to prepare for the tide game of the 1979 Mideast Regional was a little dare from a teammate. 
"I told Greg that (UCLA's David) Greenwood was a better clunker than he was,'' confessed Earvin "Magic" Johnson, Michigan State's sophomore ­sensation. "So he wanted to prove himself today." 
_Keiser had no problem proving himself to a Market Square Arena thron~ of 17,423, let alone a nation-wide television audtence, as he led his Spartans to an 80-68' disposal of Notre Dame on March 18. 
The senior forward, conductio~ a clinic on dunking, while scoring a game-htgh 34 points, rammed the leather home six times in the contest. Three of those slams came on textbook-illustrated alley-oop passes from Johnson, who enjoys watching Keiser do it more, perhaps, than Keiser enjoys actually doing it. 
"I just love to see Greg dunk," tingled Johnson after his 13-assist performance. "I just get so ftred up when he goes up, because he hangs there so long. 
It looks just like a cartoon to me." While it looked like a nightmare to the Irish, the Spartans made it look so easy. 
''] ust a little eye contact between us let's us know we're doing it," said Keiser of the tob plays. And after shaping his hands as if gripping a basketball, Keiser added, "When I see that pass coming, my eyes get about this big. '' 
Irish eyes, on the other hand, were anything but smiling on this post-St. Patrick's Day event. Notre Dame, which never had the lead in the contest, was forced to play catch-up right off the opening tip. 
Johnson's first assist came on that opening play, as he fed guard Michael Brkovich for an uncontested stuff. And the third-ranked Spartans were on their way to their best performance of the season. 
"They ~ot the momentum for good on the opening play," satd Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps, who was hoping for his second straight regional championship. ''It was just an avalanche after that." 
After Irish forward Kelly Tripucka managed to tie the score at 6-6, Brkovich scored five unanswered points in 34 seconds, and State had begun to control the tempo by successfully running on the Irish. 
Keiser, after missin~ his ftrst five attempts from the floor, was re~ponstble for all of MSU's next 14 points in a stretch which lifted the Spartans to a 25-16 advantage with 5:03 left in the ftrst half. 
The Irish, who went in to the locker room trailing, 34-23, at halftime, couldn't seem to buy a bucket 10 the initial stanza, hitting at a . 3 57 accuracy. Michigan State's match-up zone, coupled with Notre Dame's inability to attack it, negated the highly necessary Irish mside game. 
"We wanted to stop Tripucka inside and (Bill) Hanzlik outside," said victorious coach Jud Heath­cote. "That worked pretty well, except that Tracy Jackson started hitting from out." 
[continued on page 11] 

~ little science anda little too much Magic' 
There are some people who might say that a basketball team is a little like a car. Like different basketball squads, each car has its own character, and some cars (and teams) are bet<:er than others. For this reason we offer this story: 
Once upon a time there were two fancy 1979 cars. Each were top models in their class, and their manufacturers hoped they would be the top machines in the NCAA (National Car and Auto Association). One was a rugged Irish sedan, the. other a sleek Spartan sports car. 
The 1979 Irish sedan was supposed to be a vintage model. The people at ND Corporation and Phelps Engineering brought back all the features from last year's model, .and that was their most successful machine. 
On~ advantage the Irish sedan had was great mileage. What it lacked in speed it made ue for in long distance power. The sedan got more mdes per gallon than most other models. 
But more importantly, the people at Phelps Engineering had brou~ht the sedan down this road before and knew what tt took to come out on top. For that reason they used the same parts for this year's model, all with improvements. The ND Corporation thought they had the car of the year. 
But the folks at MSU Motores also thou ht the had 
Mark 
Perry 

a great machine, a for the sleek Irish sedan. The Spartan sports car was all speed and flashy brilliance. What it lacked in mileage it made up for with a lot of get up and go. 
And the Spartan had another edge, what its advertising department like to call "a little science and a little Magic." 
The MSU people had the "Magic" in last year's model, ·and founo that it did amazing things for the car. But the rest of the parts in the machine did not know what the "Magic" was going to do all the time, and sometimes the car did not perform right. 
-That's where the science came in, as the Heathcote chemists tuned themachineso the rest of the car could anticipate what the "Magic" was going to do, and the car was improved. 
The road was a bumpy one for both of the cars over' the year, as they both en'o ed bein ranked the to car in the country, but also lost out to some supposedly weaker competition. But both made it to the NCAA judging, and were both confident they could make it to the finals on the Salt Lake flats of Utah. 
The Irish sedan won out over its ftrst two competitors in the Mideast Sales Region, using its power, mileage, and experience to outrun some younger competitors. 
Ano the Spartan sports car cruised over some tough cars to also reach the finals in the Mideast Region. Many experts thought that whoever emerged from this pair would win ~l-te car of the year title. 
And so they met head to head. Power against speed, mileage against the "Magic." 
But in the end, it was the "science," the chemistry of the Spartan sports car that enabled it to run rings around the rugged Irish sedan. The S~artan performed so smoothly, and all the mileage m the world couldn't keep it from pulling past the ND Corp. entry. The "Magic" and the chemistry worked together, and they made the sports car unbeatable. 
The Spartan model continued its smooth sailing at the Salt Flats, downing an unexpected entry out of Pennsylvania, the Penn Quaker, ~nd then defeating the tough Sycamore Thunder-birdtn the final stretch, 
[continued on page 9] 








