----..,..-----­
The &Jund and The Fury -page 4 
lj
VOL. XIII, No. 72 · an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 1UESDAY, JANUARY 30, 1979 
CLC appeals O'Meara's parietals rejection 
Another snow shot. Will spring ever come? [Photo by Bob Gz/1.] 


Hearst goes free Thursday 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Jimmy Caner, agreeing that newspaper heiress Patricia Hearst "needs no funher reha­bilitation" or punishment, acted yesterday to set her free this week. 
Caner granted executive clem­ency to Hearst, perhaps the nauon' s most celebrated federal prisoner, and commuted her seven-year sentence for bank robbery. 
An announcement of the presi­dent's action, taken on the reco~ndation of the Justice Department, said Hearst wiiJ be freed Thursday from the federal prison at Pleasanton, Calif. She has served 22 months of her sentence. 
The White House said Hearst, 
who will be 25 next month, "has 
been punished substantially" for 
her part in the holdup of a San 
Francisco bank two months after 
she was kidnapped by the Sym­
bionese Liberation Army in 1974. 
The announcement said she "needs no further rehabilitation, and it is the consensus of all involved in her proceedings and confinement that she is no risk to the community and that, on the contrary, she will be a law-a abiding citizen.'' 
To win her freedom, Hearst had to agree to a series of parole-like conditions that she must observe for a one-year period. Terry Adamson, a Justice Department spokesman, said a department official spoke to Miss Hearst earlier in the day 

Teen opens fire on school 
SAN DIEGO IAPl -A teenaged ~irl who saia she wanted to 
'liven up the day" sprayed a crowded elementary school with automatic rifle fire yester­day, killing the principal and a custodian and wounding a police officer and at least eight students before surrendering. 
The /irl, identified as 16­
year-ol  Brenda Spencer, bar­ 
ricaded  herself  inside  the  
family's  modest  home  across  

the street from Cleveland Elem­entary School for 6 1h hours before she quietly agreed to come out. 
A policeman on the scene, Sgt. Dave KeiJy, said Miss Spencer emerged from the house, put ~o guns on the ground, then calmly went back in the home and brought out her ammunition before heavilf. armed officers grabbed the gir . 
Miss Spencer was whisked to a nearby patrol car and driven to Rolice headquarters. 
'I just wanted to," the girl told the San Diego Evemng Tribune in a telephone inter­view. "It just popped into my head, about last Wednesday, I think." 
When the shooting began, students ran in/anic from the school yard an teachers told others to huddle beneath desks and keep away from windows. Later students were ushered to safety in the school auditorium. Nearby homes were evacuated. 
All those hit by gunfire were outside the school. 
and wen her a~reement. 
The conditions include re­quirements that she not leave the country without permission of the attorney general, that she avoid anyone who has a criminal record, that she keep no firearms and that she subnut to possible unspecified additional super­vision by the attorney general. 
In announcin~ Carter's deci­sion, the White House said freedom "will not end the suffer­[continued on page 2] 

bvJoe Slovinec StaffReporter 
In a meeting last night, the Campus Life Council voted unan­imously to appeal Provost Timothy O'Meara's rejection of its parietals proposal. The proposal would place parietals offenses under the jurisdiction of hall judicial boards. The next steJ? is to submit the proposal to Umversity President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh for final consideration. 
The proposal to reduce parietals to a hall offense was first rejected by Fr. .John VanWolvlear, vice-president for Student Affairs. Before the Christmas break, the proposal was appealed to O'Meara, who subsequently rejected it in a letter to Student Body President, Andy McKenna. 
McKenna showed the CLC copies of the letter, in which 0'Meara expressed his support for VanWolvlear's rejection of the pro,P<?sal. 
"I think it is in the best interest of the University that the impor­tance of parietals not be dimin­ished," O'Meara noted in the letter. 
CLC Representative Mary Ryan said that she wants Hesburgh to know parietals is a subject we are concerned about and have strong feelings about. 
"We want Hesburgh to cite his particular arguments which will make him decide to accept or reject our proposals and particu­larly to explain the rationale behind parietals,'' SU Associate Director Gene Woloshyn empha­sized. In his four years at Notre Dame, Woloshyn stated that he had never heard an explanation of exactly why parietals existed or when they started. 
St. Edward's Hall President 
Bill Vita said that he was "disap­
pointed with O'Meara's res­
ponse" and that he "hopes more 
dialogue will :·esuh from interac­
tion with Fr. Hesburgh." 
The CLC also heard a report by 
Student Body President Andy 
McKenna on the housing situa­
tion. McKenna said there have 
been "no drastic changes" since 
Christmas. He noted that a 
considerable number of students 
have already moved off-campus 
and that many more were plan­
ning to move off at the end of this 
semester. 
Assistant Vice-President for 
Students Affairs Fr. Gregory 
Green said that 2200 housing 
contracts, had been returned to 
the Housing Office as of yester · 
dar. 5500 spaces are available. 
AI housing contracts must be in 
by Friday. Green gave no 
estimate as to when the computer 
count of the housing contracts 
would be completed. 
VanWolvlear promised the 
CLC in a memorandtim that he 
would consult Student Govern­
ment about alternative solutions 
before the Administration 
reaches a decision about a lot­
tery. 
"Before March 9 (the proposed 
lottery date), we will have .a 
month to consider various alter­
natives to solve any housing 
problems," VanWolvlear stated 
m the memorandum. 
To help meet the needs of 
Off-Campus students, the CLC 
has accepted as ·3; spolking but 
non-voting member, Off-Campus 
CommissiOner John Fitzpatnck. 
McKenna supp<>rted a motion 
giving the Off-Campus CLC 
member the right to vote, but the 
motion must be approved at the 
Mav Board of Trustees meeting. [continued on page 7] 

HPC sponsors weekend ND -Toronto exchange 
by Patti 0 'Neill 
On Friday, four bus loads of Notre Dame students will leave for the University of Toronto for a four day visit. The Toronto Student Exchange Commission has co-sponsored this event with Notre Dame's Hall Presidents Council (HPC) with the objective of ''gaining new perspectives educationally, culturally and socially," according to Chuck DelGrande, chairman of the HPC. 
The exchange of 156 Notre Dame students will be a four day affair. They will leave Notre Dame at 4 p.m. Fnday, and return Monday niBht at 11. 
There will be an organizational meettng for all students attending the exchange at 6:30 p.m. Thursday in La Fortune's Little Theatre. An itinerary and all necessary information will be provided at this meeting. 
The University of Toronto has scheduled several events, including a reception dinner, social and athletic events, tours of Toronto and of the Ontario Parlaiment, and a luncheon with the Mayor of Toronto. Students will also attend classes and seminars, and they will enjoy free time to tour Toronto on their own. 
The Notre Dame students will stay with the same students from the University of Toronto who will visit Notre Dame on March 3-6. DelGrande is presently arranging an itinerary for the Toronto students' visit. This tentative schedule includes : a reception party at Guiseppi's, a tour of Chicago, athletic events, an evening at the Nazz, semmars and a dinner at which Fr. Hesburgh will be the guest speaker. 
When asked about his objectives for the exchange, one Notre Dame student, Glenn Killoren, stated, "I want to beat the February drabs by doing something different. And I'm going to have a good time. Even though the culture won't be much different from our own, I will be able to learn from them.'' 
Sara Yang, a junior at Notre Dame, shared her hopes for the exchange: "I am an American Studies Major and I was overseas last year. really want to meet people and learn more about our foreign relations." 
The trip promises to be an educational experience for both Notre Dame and University of Toronto students. DelGrande stated, "We had a maximum turnout and are very lucky that the University of Toronto chose Notre Dame to take part in the exchange.'' 



News in brief 
Some westernstates move to restore higher speed limits· 
Lawmakers in several western and midwestern states have joined their Wyoming colleagues to campaign for an increase 
[continued from page 1] 
in the 55-mph speed limit, risking the loss of millions of ing she will experience from the 
dollars in federal money. 
invasions of her privacy and the 
"Everybody's tired of driving 55 miles an hour." Said sensational and embarrassing Washin~ton State Rep. AI Henry, who introduced a bill last commercial exploitation of her week ratsing the limtt to 65 mph. Similar measures have 
experiences.''been introduced in Colorado, Nebraska and Texas, and a bill 
In recommending that she be 
boosting the limit EO 65 mph already has been approved by freed, Deputy Attorney Genreal 
the Wyoming Senate. An Associated Press spot check Benjamin Civiletti told Carter 
showed legislators in Oklahoma, Utah, New Mexico, Nevada that Miss Hearst had suffered 
and North Dakota also are talking about raising the speed ' 'degrading experiences ... as a limit, or as an alternative, cutting penalties for drivers who victim" of her kidnappers, who 
go faster than 55. The Montana Legislature passed a law in abducted her on the rught of Feb. 
1977 authorizing the governor to raise the speed limit to 65 
4, 1974. mph if and when it becomes apparent that federal funds 
Hearst said that she was both 
would not be jeopardized. No further action has been taken surprised and pleased by Presi­
since then, however. 
dent Carter's decision to com­mute her prison sentence on bank robbery charges. 
In an interview with Barbara Walters of ABC News, Hearst said of the president's action, 
Bus ,tank truck collide; 
2 killed, in Connecticut 
''I'm really grateful that he was so courageous. It would have WETHERSFIELD, Conn. (AP)-A commuter bus collided_ v.:ith 
been so simple for him to just an oil tank truck on an Interstate highway yesterday, ktlhn~ 
leave everything the way it was.'' two persons, injuring 26 ~thers. and causmg a "major otl 
Hearst said in the telephone spill" from the truck, offie1als sa1d. At least 13 ambulances 
interview, "I was really happy. I rushed to the scene after the accident shortly before 3 p.m. 
was so surprised it happened near Exit 2 5 of I-91, officials said. Asked how the accident 
today. I just didn't expect it .. .I happened, one state trooper on the scene said, "We really 
thought I'd be spending another don't know. That's what we're trying to reconstruct." Two 
Feb. 4 in prison." victims were dead on arrival at Hartford Hospital, a 
Her father, Randolph Hearst, spokesman said. Their names were b_eing withheld until 
thanked Carter for an act he said relatives could be told. The tanker earned 8,800 gallons of 
had ''given Patty back her life fuel, but not all of it spilled, state police. spokesman Adam 
and made her family veryBerluti said. Firefighters ~t the scene satd the _fuel was No. 
happy."
2 fuel oil, but a trooper satd the fuel was gasohne. 
Hearst, pres,,knr •,f the San Francisco Examiner, called Carter's decision to cut short Miss Hearst's time in prison "a

Student becomes first male 
politically courageous move be­cause there are people in this 
country who continue to believe the only reason she is being set free is because of her name.'' 

homecoming queen 
STATESBORO, Ga. (AP)-Patric Fetter, a 5-foot-9 brun~tte "The truth of the matter ·•Ifrom Sullivan's Island, S.C., was crowned homecommg course, is that she was kidnal'l'(·dqueen of Geo~gia Southern C~llege ~uring a le~s-tha~­because of her name and l1t rroutine coronanon. Fetter-wearmg whtte pants, whtte shtrt name was responsible for herand a dark jacket -side-stepped a salvo of eggs as he severe sentence," he said. 
promenaded before 4,400 of his new subje_cts at the school James Browning, Jr., the fed­gymnasium. At center court, Fetter was gtven a plaque by eral attorney who prosecutedcollege President Dale W. Lick. And in a move Miss Hearst, said he wasn'tunprecedented in school history, Lick bypassed the queen surprised by Carter's decision toand kissed his escort, Janette Stephenson. Fetter estimated commute Miss Hearst's sen­his measurements at 43-30-32 and said his hobbies include tence.
sailing, runnin~, bicycling, hiking and reading. "All the "My general feeling is thatgirls think he s really cute," said. hi~ roon;unate, Skip justice has been done," saidJennings. "He's got one of those wmnmg smtles and soft Browning, who is now a Superiorfeatures, I guess." The 20-year-old mechanical engineeri~g Court Commissioner of domestic major defeated five female finalists for the honor. He satd relations in San Mateo County.
one reason he competed was to complete a ,sociology class "I do hope they're not commut­project on sex roles. 
ing her sentence just because 
-


Weather 
r-The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Sue 
Wuetcher
Scattered snow through tomorrow, highs today in the low 
Asst. Night Editor: Dave to mid 20s. Lows tonight in the mid teens to the low 20s. 
Brosh·
Highs tomorrow in the teens. Chance of measurable snow 
Copy Reader: john
30 percent today and 60 percent tonight. 
McGrath, Reed King 
Layout Staff: john Smith 
Editorial Layout: Rosemary 
Mills 
Features Layout: Scoop & 
Kathy Connelly 
Sports Layaut: Beth 
Huffman 
Typists: Mardi Nevin, Tom 
Pipp, Pete McFadden, 
Rosie Rodgers 
EMT: Katie Brehl 
Day Editor: john Ferroli 
Ad Layout: joe Murphy, 
Dave Wood, Bub 
Photographer: Bob Gill 
The Observer [USPS 598 920] is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased lor $20 per year [$10 per semesterjlrom The Observer. P.O. box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second .class postage paid, Notre liame. In­
diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


s 

, 3:30 pm--COMPUTER COURSE, "introductory tso," pete shaw, 115 MATH BLDG. 
4:30 pm--SEMIN~, "adaptive geometry and life ~story in relation to codorrunance of beech and sugar maple m warren woods," r•rof. thomas poulson, u. of ill., 278 GALVIN 
5 pro--BASKETBALL, smc vs. ui state, ANGELA ATH. FACII11Y 
5:30 pm--DINNER MEETING, nd german club, FACUL1Y DNG. RM., SOUTH DNG. HAll 
6:30pm--MEETING, finance dub, 124 HAYES·HEALY 8 pro--BASKETBAll, nd vs. brown, ACC 
8:15 pro--RECITAL, grad student degrees, spon. by music dept., IJB, AUD. & LOUNGE 

----...,...------..,---,.------­
Tuesday, January 30, 1979 -page 2 
• • • Patricia Hearst 
she's Patricia Hearst." 
AI ] ohnson, one of Miss Hearst's attorneys during her 1976 trial on bank robbery charges, said that he hopes ''the motoriety that accompanied her captivity and trial will subside" with the newspaper heiress' re­lease from prison. 
"I think these things will be forgotten in time and that she will live again as a useful citizen,'' Johnson said. 
Artist Wendy Yoshimura, who was captured with Miss Hearst in a San Francisco apartment in 1975, said she was "hap_py for Patty that her incarceration is over -as I would be for any woman in her situation.'' 
Miss Yoshimura, who has ap­pealed a conviction for arms possession, is working at the Juice Bar Collective in Berkeley and has not had any contact with Hearst since their arrest. 
ID){£ ~ 
JKNJ~Em·~ 
1ust 5 mttt. bfrom campus 
c_AQQ heads atre tutrned to the 
D1J<&Bm·~ 
once a yeatr saQe on * uUet\~g cpeltmg * 
put gome body ill y0u1r ltam ~It tltat gneat Qool2 l 
u\fatutraQ uUan-cpetrm 1ust S22.50 
neguQan s~_()(; 
Qocoted Qowe~ QeveQ ofJ Queen'g CagtQe S4sgg <Je!ll!ace ~ane 277-1691 

CELEBRATION I SUNSHINE 
and 
N.D. STUDENT UNION Present 





HEART 
with guest 
EXILE Thutsday Feb 22 

a:oo Pm 
NOTRE DAmE ACC 
Tickets J8.00 and J7.00 NOW ON SALE ACC Ticket OHice 
and 
Student Union Ticket OHice 
......------------------~----~­
The Observer Tuesday, January 30, 1979 -page 3 
Pol Pot's forces drive to\Vard Phnon1 Penh 
BANGKOK, Thazland[APJ-The forces of fallen Premier Pol Pot claimed yesterday to be closing in on the Vietnamese and rebel­held Cambodian capital of Phnom Penh and listed other gains, some of which were confirmed by 'Indochina analysts here. 
''The country is settlin~ in for a long, hard fight," satd one diplomat in Bangkok. 
Sources within the Thai and Western diplomatic and mili­tary community, monitoring the six-week war from this Thai capital, said highway four lead­ing from Phnom Penh to the sea had been cut. 
Phnom Penh was seized Jan. 7 when Vietnamese troops and pre-Vietnam Cambodians found the city abondoned by Pol Pot and others who had fled to set up resistance in the country­stde. 
The sources also said the ports of Kompong Som and Kampot were still immobilized by heavy fighting and that the ancient temples of Angkor, symbols of Cambodian nationalism, may have been recaptured. 
In early January, the military map was a series of nest arrows representing Vietnamese thrusts from east to west. But over, the past two weeks the map has become a checkerboard of Viet­namese and Cambodian forces engaged in almost all areas of the country. 
The fighting is said to vary from minor skirmishes to sharp engagements, especially in key communication and resupply points held by the Vietnamese. ' 
Pol Pot's Voice of Democratic Kampucher (Cambodia), be­lieved broadcasting from China, said the Cambodians had "liber­ated" virtually all a southeastern Cambodia and penetrated within about 6 miles of Phnom Penh from the south. 
The broadcast described the siruation of the Vietnamese in­vasion force as "desperate." It also claimed the temples of Angkor had been retaken from the Vietnamese. 
The new pro-Vietnamese gov­ernment in Phnom Penh has not mentioned the battlefield action. 
But the Vietnam News Agency, quoting Phnom Penh media, satd more than 70,000 people in the provinces of Kompong Chhnang and Pursat have "taken part in building local revolutionary ad­ministrations and militia units.'' 
SU sponsors record sale 
The Student Union will spon­will be accepted at the time of 
sor a record sale during the ordering. There is no limit to week of Feb. 19-23. It wtll be the number of records which 
held in Room 2-d on the second may be purchased, but all floor of LaFortune from 12 to 5 customers must present I.D. 
each day. 

cards. 
Signs identifying the location will be posted. Students will be Prices for records will be at able to order records from the cost: LP's will be $4.55; new available catalogs and then pick releases $3.49. There will be no them up during the week of refunds. However, defective March 5-9. records will be replaced witha 
Only checks or money orders a copy of the same album. 

~ED KEN 
creatiue 

hair designs for men and women 
Hours ·~·ues 8:30-'i:30 Wed-Thurs 8:30-8:30 Sat 8-4 Fri 8:30-6:30 
• call today for an intment 134-6767 • 

Friday ­Saturday 
Monday Library Auditorium 
Saturday Night Fever 7, 9, 11:30 p.m. Eng. Aud. 
LaFortune Night Oriental art exhibit and sale 
ortune 


THE RUGBY ClUB RAFFLE 

$1.00 per chance First prize: round trip air-fare to 
Ireland for two March 10-25 (six) Second prizes: a Corby mug filled free for a week -winner must be present to win the second prize 
drawing has been changed and will be held at Corby's Thurs Feb I at 12:30 
CORBY'S ORaWIOCj SP€Ctat ~OR thURsOay 3 bR~ts/$1.00 2 canso~ shots o~ schnapps/$. 50 hamms/$1.00 
¥J 
en,.
c 
•

Cll 
'1) ::) 3 
u; Why Not Spend Y out ~ p .. 
(/)

~ SPRING Steak On The· (I) ,. 
Q..

Sunny Beaches of Flotida c CD 
::) 

~-----------------------------------------------------~ 
Buses leave NO citcle Sat. ffiatch 17 
at 8am. Dltect to Ft. Laudetdale, Fla. 

yout lodging will be at the Holiday Inn Oceanside located on the sttip tight on the beach 
you're free to enjoy yourself until 8am march 23 at which time the buses will 
take you to Orlando and 
Dlsneyworld. After overnlte lodging in Orlando the · return trip leaves at 8am 
march 24 attlvingat the ND circle Sun. march 25. 

PRICE: S209 
pet person 

price Includes: all transportation Lodging Orlando, Ft. Lauderdale Disneyworld Ticket 

call 234-2196 
24 hours 
{ 
~-·

---------------------------~­




Editorials 
Guidelines needed 
The Observer withheld comment on the recent incident in which a Kee~ freshman was fo!ced to move off-campus because the dec1s1on was based on information which was not ~d _sh_ould not be made public. If the action had been a disciplinary one, and this information had been brought before the hall judicial board, the student may have been more severely penalized. Although the charge that the student "did not fit into halll_ife" was vague, The Observer feel_s _Kee~an rector ~ather Richard Conyers made the right dec_tslon m requestmg the "transfer of the student's residence." But we question the lack of guidelines which exist for cases of this son. 
Accor~iJ:tg to.dttLac and the University housing contract, the admuustranon reserves the right to transfer a student's resi~e~ce a~ any time_. ln forcins the student off-campus, .the adm1ms~at1on exercised that nght. The problem with this proc~ss 1s that the decision can be made solely by the rector ~d 1s upheld by ~e administration in spite of the student's nght to appeal. It 1s the rector's perogauve whether or not to use his hall judicial board. 
While rules ~~ch dictat~ ~he u~e of the hall judicial board may onlr c<!mpbcate dec1~1ons 10 non-disciplinary cases, some gu1delmes should ex1st to help the rector determine whether ?r. not to process the case through the j-board. Th~se gu1ding statements are the responsibility of campus poh~~-makers •. such as the Campus Life Council and the ]!Jdlc~al ~rdin_ator. _Guidelines must be set before a similar Situation ar1ses m which the rector fails to use his discretion properly. 
State of the Union 
For those of you who didn't hear the President's speech last week or did hear it but weren't ~uite sure: what he said, I would like to giVe a Reader's Digest version of the talk. These are some of the questions and an­swers the President discussed: 
Q--How is the State of the Union? 
A--Sound. 
Q--What kind offoundation are we building? A--A "new foundation" for a peaceful and prosperous world. 
Q--What is inflation? 
A--A burden for all Americans 
but a disaster for the poor the 
sick and the old. ' 
Q--What does the government have to do to make the Presi­dent's anti-inflation program work? 
A--Its part. 
Q--Will it be easy for Congress to hold down federal excess spending? 
A--No. 
Q--How long have the Ameri­can people waited for hospital costs to stop skyrocketing? 
A--Long enough. 
Q--How do the Ariiencan peO­ple feel about the influence of private lobbying groups and the fl~ of private campaign money which threatens our electoral process? 
A--Powerless. 
Q--What are our choices? 
A--Anarchy and destruction or cooperation and peace. Q--Do we have the desire to become the world's policeman? 
A--No. 
Q--What do we want to be known as? A--The world's peacemaker. Q--How are our ties with Japan and our European allies? 
A--Stronger than ever. 
art buchwald 
. Q--J:Iave we:; won new respect m this hemisphere with the Panama Canal treaties? 
A--Yes. 

Q--What kind of an era are we entering with one-fourth of the world's people living in China? 
A--A hopeful one. 

Q--At the same time, what will we do to guarantee a prosJ>erous peaceful and secure life for th~ people of Taiwan? 
A--Make a commitment. 
Q--Whaf are the messages a bola generation of Americans is sending us across the centuries? 
A~-Just_ice, equality, unity, sacrifice, libeny, faith and love. 
Q--What does the President want us all to do to bring about a better world for ourselves and children? 
A--Join him in building his "new foundation," which should be a better foundation than we have at the moment. 
Q--Is that it? 

A--Yes, but there will be a test nc:;xt week and anyone who fails it will be dropped from the Social Security rolls and could be asked to take Jay ~olomon's job at the Generaf Servtces Administration. 
~ 
:::) 
al 
UJ 
w 
z 
0 
0 
0 

MR. 5EC/lJiTAI?t, THIS 
Tuesday, January 3Q, 1979-page 4 
The Sound and the Fury 
''When neither their pro­perty nor their honor is t~uched, the majority of men live content." 

Niccolo Machiavelli. I like sex. The word, that is. I have an equal fascination for words like death, god, truth, love, freedom. These words send chills down the spine of human­ity, collectively and individually. The recent publication of the Brian Hogan article evoked tre­J:I?-O~s of indignation and denun­cJ.atl~n ~ong S?me knee-jerk reacnonar1es, but 1t also provided an. ample opportunity for some articulate and genuinely passion­ate rebuttals. We need to be challenged to know the depth of our own values, and convictions. Without the evil, the holocausts and the genocides which will forever blot the memory of man's inhumanity to man, what barometer would we have to measure the good, the lovely and the sacred? It was my decision to publish the article on sexual equality. As Fe~tures Editor, I encourage my wrtters to contribute their thoughts and feelings as articu­lately and passionately as possi­ble. Despite its inherent mcon­gruencies and chauvinistic bias­es, the article was published as one human being's semi-satiri­cal, semi-personal account of the sexual_ mor~s _of . Catholicity's pree~nent mst1tut1on of higher learnmg. Brian Hogan's respo••se touched a nerve within many of us. Alas, how dare he blaspheme the golden image we hold intact for ourselves, good Christians that we be. Very few peopJe, least of aU the expens, have achieved an acme of sexual libera~on-attitudinally, emotion­ally, mterpersonally and spirit­ually-which could serve as a model for the vast majority of human beings who wallow in sexual ignorance. Maybe true sexual liberation will never occur which means we must confron~ the darkness and fend for our­selves. Brian Hogan wrote 'controver­sial' statements like: -----''The average woman who enters ND is smarter than the average freshman male.!' Abso­lutely true. Traditional sexual discrimination in male institu­tions which have recently gone co~d-the most glaring examples bem~ ND ~d ~e military aca­derrues-reqmre 1mpeccable intel­
7Jic HOSllLJllCS IN CAM­
EJ()[)IA fA£I?E 7HE R£Sift:r
IS ANOIIT'IfA6e! TH£3 
AMBASSA!XR F/?IJM (J(INA 
tF A POPfltAR. IJPRISIN6 

AGAINST A 8RJJTAL R/::6/ME/
! HA5 NO 6/WNIJ5WH/fr­
: ~F(F. J.IIS CffAR6I; 
VIETNAM PlAYEO ONt:l A 

~ OF VlfJNAI4ESE. IMPeR-
MINOR ADVISORY RO/.E.! 
\

\ /ALISMf 
lectual credentials for incoming women. ND women have those credentials: Hooray for our side. -----"The vast majority of ND women are virgins." Shocking, but unverifiably true. I'd like to take a poU(anonymous, mind you) to validate this statement. My guess is 85% minimum, a number superceded only by the pe~centag~ of male virgins, which( despite . their innocuous verbal protestations to the con­trary) hovers around 90%. -----''Love without sex is definite­ly the most boring.'' This state­ment is so ludicrous and awash with ennui that I yawned outloud then proceeded to tell my mothe; (who has never studied Freud) that she is boring. -----"A freer sexual atmosphere here at ND will tum out to be the salvation of many coeds." Brian forgot two words, which I will sagaciously provide: "A freer sc:;xual atmosphere here at ND will tum out to be the salvation, anddestruction, of many coeds." Thank you, 0 great wise man. -----' ·~e most. important male­female mteracnons take place in the bedroom.'' Absolutely true. Color 1V appears sharper most homicides between es~anged lo":ers, and nearly every major philosophical treatise in history had its origins in that infernal cauldron of libido and love, the bedroom. Oh blessed sanctuary, 
temple of sensual bliss, liberate me from the chains of carnal· cragginess. 
Ryan Ver Berkmoes WSND's ~trepid_ reJ!Oner,_ pa:rlayed an mteresnng mtervlew from Mr. Hogan. Aired last Thursday evening during my weekly "Adonis" Show, Brian's com­ments are worth some thought: 
''My real and most important goal was to get people tv think about attitudes which in many cases are not often reflected upon and which are set almost from childhood.• ' 
_Now.whether or ~ot rou agreed With his porous histoncal basis' for virgiruty, or his overtly eccen­tric equation of social equality "' sexual equality, is a matter of moral or ethical option. But his intention was solely to get people to think critically, to analyze, to speculate, to feel in a way that prior to his article, they never fel~ the compulsion or the need to. Briefly, to philosophize. 
Most students here, and I fear faculty Iadministrative person­nel, as well as religious, have 
AtmSOR.Y, ~.IIMlJtiSSA­IXR?mEN~>W 
ClXILP EKPtAIN 70 7HI5 ClliN­
CIL THE/()(),{)()() SOIJ)IB?S 
7HAT PtJI.R£[) ACRIJ5S 7HE 
8(RJ)ER ON DECEMBCR 24! 
/ 
~ suckled by the ephemeral unage and sedateness which is inherent in the Notre Dame experience. Not:n= Dame is like a huge breast, with counrless babes bellowing for an ever increasing quantity of milk. From the breast of suburbia, to the breast ND, followed by the breast of the corporation, we live shackled, enfeebled lives-void ofa# passion, incapable of tolera­ung another's vantage point especially if it somehow challen~ ges our own belief system. 
Some people felt the need to defend the collective "Honor" of Notre Dame. women; others felt ~e coiDJ>ulsion to immediately disassociate themselves from the co~ectiye wolfpack (masculine) which ts presumedly indicted a priori, by the author's ~ assuring_.trustiog virgins that ··i am not like that.'' 
The fact is: WE ARE AIL llKE THAT. We all have darker sides, parts and masks that we never show, for fear that another human being would see me as I 
really am. 
Remember the feigned moral ~dignation felt by the herd when Junmy Carter actually admitted to Playboy Magazine (which no self respecting Catholic lad will ever a¥t to subscribing. If he does, 1t s always for the stories, never the voluptuous beauties inside) that he lusted after wo­men in his heart? 
Let's stop pretending. Girls and ~ys go to school together. Sex ts a very important concern whether it's discussed or not. I~ value is ~onceiv~bly great, and the reacuon to this article indi­cates that thase who want sex to s~y ~ the c;Ioset will do every­thing 10 therr power to keep it there. And those whose prefer­ence is to be open and explore, to share and to hopefully <liscover what this part of their human ~riencc; MEANS, will struggle ~t. ndes of tight-lipped, mtrans1geot moralists who as­sure us that ~re are only two ways to deal With sex: pretend it doesn:t exist or go to Corby's. 
Ladies: take a gent out to dinner sometime. Lads be kind to the ladies. And to hu:naruty in general, remember these ger­mane words by Catholic author Charles Peguy: 
''There is something ..,.orse 
than having an evil mind and that 
is having a closed one.': 
Christopher Stewart Features Editor 
WELL? 
I 

either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson 
-The Observer_ of 
as possible. E~itC?rials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Spons Edito~ ............ RJZy O'Brien opm10n of a maJonty of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor. . . ..... Chris Stewart
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Board. Comm~ntaries, opinions and Ex~cu~ive E~tor ...... Barb Langhemry Photo Editor .......... ,Doug Christian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. EdJtonal_ Editor . . . . . . . Rosemary Mills per published by students · of the Column space is available to all mem· Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil CacRI_el Pr~uction Manager . . . . .. . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of, the community, and the free Saint Mary's Editor . . . . . . FJ/en Bttddy Busmess Manager ........ john Tucker 
News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advenising Manager ........ Bob Rttdy
Mary's College. It does not necessarily expressiOn of varying opinions on cam· reflect the ·policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 
) 

-----------· 
--------···. ··----·-··--· _,... ... 
.. 




Features 
Tuesday, January 30, 1979-page 5 
OLA workshop this weekend 
A Collect Call to God 
11 EEW..L't' &m-u::es 'bJ ~~ INFt.e.toe\ DQ(;.<;,N •T ,r. ~Ntac.s 
Queen 's new release 
'jazz' 
Steve Navarre 
In Jazz, Queen has assembled a wide Russian folk dance or something to that spectrum of music that ranges from pure effect. The song is . well do~e and garbage to so-so.. This album wo~~d be a Russian dance lovers will be thrllle~ by perfect "something-for-everyone LP if it. One, however, must wonder if lt only the songs were good. Queen has really belongs on this album. It could be filled this album with the same banal argued tha~ Queen i~ widening their lyrics that have filled every Queen album music.al h~nzons, but if so, why ts such since Sheer Heart Attack. Also present an inventive tune followed by such 
are many of the hard, schreeching guitar imbecillic junk as ''Fat Bottomed Girls.'' licks and four-part harmonies that have Queen trudges their way through this become their trademark. 
tune(?) with all the vim and vitality of the The worst music of this album is also obese subjects of their song. 
")ealousy" and "Dreamers' Ball" areoddly enough the most popular. "Fat merely respective rehashes of ''Love ofBottomed Girls" and "Btcycle ~ce" My Life" and "Good Company" both
have received more AM and FM atrplay than anything else on the al~urn. When 
found on Night at the Opera.. q'!een als.~ makes a feeble try at disco m Fun It
speaking of what makes this album so which suspiciously smells ofa sell-out by bad, they are ~lso the two straws that a band who snobbishly considers them­broke the camel s back. Both tunes start 
selves a part of the small minority of
out with heavily overdub_bed harmo~es weekly or bi-weekly hosting various
In the upcoming weeks, the Features
purists left in the rock industry. Their
leadin~ into the usual Bnan May guttae 
page will manifest numerous facelifts. faculty viewpoints on a wide range of
motto seems to have slipped from ''we
riff. So what else is new. 
interests.

Roger Taylor and John Deacon keep a are the c~ampions" to ' take the money The Midpoint Feature will become 
The University ofJocksville a satirical
hard steady rl f1m .throughout the and run. bi-weekly, beginning this Thursday with 
look at ND's spomng life. 
album to which J:<'reddie Mercury can The album finishes off with an amal­the Old College. 
Increased cove~e on music, film and
return when he finishes "screaming" gamation of the previous thi~ minutes Heroes Anonymous will begin Friday 
theater featuring this week a review and 
and ''moaning'' his way through musical of trash. One could refer to this song_ as featuring John Santos, Notre Dame's 
interview with the Marshall Tucker
outer space. a quick review but it seems more like first Rhodes scholar in fifteen years. · 
Band. All courtesy of the feature's
The album begins with a psuedo-adding insult to injury. Intellectual Forum will be either 
editor. 

changing the world, we must first Here's a chance to overcome thatchange ourselves: consciously, shyness. and let· the world know youspiritually, socially. Then, after 
extst. Get mlllias heUIUit.lt.lo• '1 /#de
assessing our own leadership 
anybody 's jive .'Be alive ,and get to atcapacities, personal resources and least one of these workshops. Godfatth, we can begin the journey to will be pleased.
overcome the dehumanizing barriers 
WHOCANCOME
which oppress so many l'eople, and 
Anyone--students, faculty, ad­
replace It wi~h a more eq11;ttable social ministration, religious or any of theand economic order. This workshop Corby's crowd, sober please.
will assist social utopianists and 
RE6ISTRATION
idealistic dreamers with the prag­Campus Ministry office, at thematic vantage point needed to trans­Main Floor of the Memorial library.
form an exploitative, anachronistic Please do so by Thursday, 12 noon.
system to one based on the message This is so the CILA staff will knowof the gospel. Economics and what areas ofthe workshop to stress. 
business majors, take note, 
Although you can attend any of the"Arkies'' and engineers as well. 
workshops without registering, it isSATURDAY FEB. 3, 3:30-5:30: advisable that you do register by
DECISIONS FOR THE FlffURE 
Thursday. There is no registrationStudents interested in social pro­fee; everything is gratis. 
jects within the ND-SMC community, A large turnout is anticipated, soSouth Bend area, or any urban center the sooner you register the better.
in the US are encouraged to attend For further information, contactthis lecture. Here, you can speak Renee Salvino, 3725; Don Cleary,directly to either Fr. Duane or Harry 1528; Fr. Don McNeil, Director·fagen. 
Center for Experiential Learning,Methods on confrontation and 2788asseniveness will be examined, so If none of them answer, call God 
all you shy people: take heart. collect. 

On The Waterfront 
Charles Craypo Pro f.-Economics 
The 1950s classic ftlm On the corruption because it divided the work­
Waterfront exJ?Iores the problem of ers, enabled the union to keep them in 
union racketeenng. It is both powerful line, and guaranteed selective rather 
and superficial. Ex-prize fighter turned than institutional hiring practices, all of 
longshoreman Terry MaHoy (Marlon which made them money. Government 
Brando) brings down a corrupt local officials, on the other hand, were 
union leader. He first incriminates the anxious to prosecute union extortionists 
official in testimony before a crime but refused to press for the only practical 
commission and then discredits him solution--replacing the shape-up system 
before the rank-and-file longshoremen. with union hiring halls--because neither 
The film grips the viewer with brutal the owners nor the union wanted them. 
images of working class life and venal Moreover, the West Coast longshore 
union bosses. union had hiring halls and everyone 
Corruption in the International knew its '?resident, Harry Bridges, was a 
Longshoremen's Association (ILA), the Commumst; to recosnize the hiring hall 
union portrayed in the film, was a solution meant le_sittmizing that union. 
reality. It was based largely on the .And although mdividt•al clergymen, 
shape-up method of hiring, in which such as the "waterfront" priest, Rev. 
indtvidual workers were hired for a day John Corridan (Father Berry in the film) 
or two at a time, but had to pay kickbacks worked on behalf of the longshoremen, 
to union official for their jobs. the Church played no decisive role in the 
On the Waterfront reveals the abuses outcome. 
of shape-up hiring, but it i~nores the ILA officials may have been ripping off 
complexities of umon corruption. In the pan of the workers' wages but so were 
process, it reinforces middle class pre­some others, and no one seemed to care 
Judices about workers and their unions. much. For all of it, the union could be 
Corruption is depicted as something counted on to negotiate higher wages, , 
maintained through intimidation, with reasonably protect longshoremen from 
the implication that workers in corrupt job-displacing machinery, and keep com­
unions will change things themselves peting labor groups, such as black 
when someone inside or outside the workers, off their docks. Being stolen 
union gives them the courage to do so. from was the price to be paid. If 
In the film, the workers, inspired by commercial values prevail in the mixed 
Malloy's defiance, break the union's economy, then some unions will be run 
hold on their jobs and the system of for/rofit. "The union is a business," 
payoffs. In the ILA, tltey did not throw sai Hoffa. 
out their leaders--the New York State And if workers sometimes tolerate or 
Crime Commission eventually did that. even suppon corrupt union leader:shi\>, it 
It was not that they condoned dishonesty is at least in pan because the institution­
but rather, bad as their union might have al alternatives available to them, in their 
been, it was all they had. They didn't view, are worse. Things change inside 
trust their leadership; they trusted their corrupt unions when enough members 
employers and government officials even become convinced they are no lon~er 
less. better off with corruption than with 
whatever else society has to offer them. 
Union corruption on the docks, as in This teHs us more about the alternativesother places, tequired employer com­we give workers than about workers plicity. Dockowners supponed the 
Features Editor Pontificates : IV 
This upcoming weekend, Friday and Saturday, Feb. 2-3, CILA (Com­munity for the International Lay Apostolate) is sponsoring a workshop designed as a follow up to the Social Concerns Film Series. Its theme will be "Human Relationships and Orga­nizing for Social Change." 
The film series hopefully provoked some introspection about the prob­lems depicted in six films. Racism, corrupt unions, prison reform, greed, migrant workers' ri~hts and geno­cide, with its concomitant consequen­ces on the human spirit, should alert us to the institutional amorality intrinsic within vast sectors of our society. 
What the CILA workshop does is make available concrete alternatives and possible means for intitiating social change. The emphasis will be on two parttcular areas: compassion and service to others. 
By concentrating on helping rela­tionships, which then precipitate social change, the CILA workshop will hopefully: 
a) 
Provide a deefer understanding of the dynamics o helping relation­ships. 

B) 
Explore organizational dyna­mics, which are necessary for im­plementing social change at ND­SMC, the local South Bend area, or in cities throughout the nation. 


The workshop itself will feature 
Orris Stewart, Features F.d. 
two prominent, extremely dedicated and aniculate speakers: Father Jim Duane and Harry Fagen. Both are acommplished men in their fields. They will share their expenise and experience at the workshop, in hopes ofmcreasing the social consciousness of the ND-SMC populace. In addition, their workshops will em­phasize the need for responsible leadership, how it can be cultivated, and how It can be maintained to bring about the social equities needed if we are to call our society "just". The workshop will be held in Memorial Library Audttorium (first floor). 
FRIDAY. FEB. 2, 7-10 p.m.: 
HELPING RELATIONSHIPS 
Fr. Jim Duane is a pastoral theologtan who works with terminally ill patients at St. Joseph's Hospital in South Bend. He will deal with three specific dynamics within all helping relationshps. Anyone interested in psychology, ~eriatrics, sociology, nursing, med1cine, law, teaching and the religiouo; life would benefit im­mensely by attending, since these profess10ns all orient themselves to direct contact with persons in need. 
SATURDAY FEBRUARY 3, 9-12 noon: ORGANIZING FOR SOCIAL CHANGE 
Harry Fagen, a dynamic organizer in Urban Ministry, will concentrate on the necessity of organizing for lasting social change. Before 



The Observer Tuesday, January 30, 1979-page 6 

Troops fire on protesters 

Wednesday January 31 Factory Representative Day Texas lnstrunients 
Incorporated 
Meet the rep and see live demonstrations of the latest calculators like... 
NEW 
Slimline Business Analyst II 

-full statistical functions: data 
·entry, mean, standard devia­tion, linear regression, trend line anal. -new constant memory -sleek slimline styling -or!ly $45.00 
OTHER MODElS AVAII.ABIE 
BUS. AN. $27.95 MBA 64.95• Tl-57 51.00 11-55 47.00 

The Hammes Notre Dame 
Programmable TI 58 
-480 steps-60 memones -solzd state software adds 5000 program steps -72 labels -6 subroutine levels -master library of 25 programs included -only $105.00 
Programmable TI 59 
-960 steps or'100 memories -solid state software adds 5000 program steps \ -record program data on mag­netic cards -computer-like power -master library module of 25 programs incl. -only $255.00 
Representative will be available for consultatzon from 11:00 a.m. until noon, andfrom 1:00 p.m. to 3:00p.m. 
1BHRAN,Iran [AP] -Prime Minister Shahpour Bakhtiar rejected Ayarullah Ruhollah Khomeini' s latest demand that he resign and called off a peacemaking trip to Paris after 30 persons were reported killed and more than 300 were wounded in Tehran's worst violence in months. 
Bakhtiar told a news con­ference Khomeini's assertion that he must resign before the 78-year-old religious leader would receive him was unacceptable. But "doors will stay open," he said, indicating that contacts would continue between his repres'entatives and the ayarullah's. 
The prime minister said Sat­urday he would fly to Paris to try to make peace with the holy man who trom exile led the year-long civil rebellion that forced Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi to leave the country two weeks ago. 
In Paris, 'one Khomeini aide said that ayarullah would receive Bakhtiar, while another said he would have to resign first. Later, Khomeini told reporters: ''if Bakhtiar is on the side of the angels, let him resign and come and see me as a free man, like everybody else." 
The 78-year-old priest, whose title of ayatullah is equivalent to that of bishop or archbishop, again attacked Bakhtiar as a "puppet and agent of the shah," and repeated his claim that Bakhtiar's government is "ille~al" because it was appomted by the ''illegal'' shah. 
The government has closed all Iran's airports indefmitely to block the return from exile on the spiritual leader of the nation's 32 million Shiite Moslems. 
Thousands of protesters, angered by Bakhtiar' s refusal to let Khomeini come home to convert the nation into an Islamic republic run by himself, flooded the streets of Tehran Sunday chanting ''Death to Bakhtiar!" 
One large _group, hurling gasoline-ftlled ft.rebombs, tried to storm a police headquarters. Troops rushed to the scene and opened fire with . 30-caliber machine guns mounted on the backs of trucks. . 
Molarity by· Molinelli 


,; 

The Observer 
Tuesday, January 30, 1979-page 7 
ACIOII l'alee 
L·r~ 47.N.......o ..........:111.... aounby .. ll&aDd Ia (far) 48. R...-et 
IS. Doft'• c:aU liO. CookiJia ,_ IS. Collar-­Ill. A Dioney
.. 

dwarf ... Sooare.ot-­62. Compeu point al 
16. lb'ewartbM DOWN 
l. Expert
-d: 
....... z. o-, 

... Befon: ~k: I. Cadpr:olanc 
11. Clllltom 4. Dirt-he 
111. 9t.ud7 lnten­6. Impairment eiYelr I. JuncJebeaat 
11. Concealed 7. Myaelf 
rl....... 8. Plumber'• 2Z. l"ale tool 
U. lndlc:at.Jon 9. Bathroom bar 
21. Small out-10. Jmpuloe bulldinc 
11. Brewed drink 

•. Dellee 18. Olfenoeo 
otices 
• • • CLC meeting
10. Bri,tat color 
c 
21. Wamboc­
•lcnal device 
R 
zz. Onthe­

[continued from page I)
21........... 
0 

Originally, the CLC was de­
U.Reecued 
lllii.T­

signea to serve on campus stu­
s
27. 8tGry 

dents only, with an Off-Campus
28. Frqrance 

Council (OCq to serve the needs 
10. RMelllbled 
s 
11. Take 

of off-campus students. How­
38. Rodent 
w 

ever, the CLC and OCC have not
U.POUMMo 

been able to function indepen­
86. Sapid 
0 

dently of each other, McKenna
87. Tooth part 
38. C..ontlnent 

noted. The OCC is still in the
R
39. At tJ.at time 

process of being formed, and
40. Chari..._ or 
D 

McKenna hopes that its chair­
Hatt.oreo 
42. Swindle 

man will eventually be a voting
s
u. Operate 

member of the CLC. 
46. Born 

CLC member Curt Wesselen of 
48. Prueeed 

Grace discussed his meeting with 


Yesterday's Answers 



'Classifieds 
University is against any student ment, but it has not bttn profit-making organization but determined how many dorms they will consider the installation could use Grace's facilities. of washers and dryers in other Wesselen and Conyers sug­dorms ifthe University runs them gested that the HPC take a poll of and keeps the profits.'' the male dorms, to see how many
Zahm Rector Fr. Thomas male students are interested in 
Tallarida pointed out that male using washers and dryers.
students who would use the Wesselen disagreed with Admin­washers and dryers do not want istration suggestions for washers to pay laundry costs. and dryers m the Rathskellar of 
The Hall Presidents' Council LaFortune or in the old field­has approved Wesselen's pro­bouse. He noted the J>?SSible 
posal to install washers and conflicts between social and dryers in Grace as an experi-laundry space. 
____1111!1 _______11!1"'!1,,.,.._... 
.•·. :< CLIP THIS COUPONU!! ,:.,,# -': ·· ··· ·~, 

SIVER OTY RECORD~;t 
. South Bend's Largest Record G I Tape Selection ~ I Concert Ticket Headquart~rs ,.,:.:· I 
$1.00 OFF! ~-'.'·I 
COUPON -l' I 
. ' " .it!' 
. ~I 

··.·· _'ap~wirh. l:hiscoupoo. Limit 1 t';
.. Now rhru l"t'hr.. ,, 

on cUt·ours, tmports or other sak H('rTl~->. <·JI 
checks accepted fot up to ,,;,1ij 
0.00 ovet putchase amount J > :I :,....:,...,.,..., albums and tGpes to choose ftonr:l 
Ptach crate$ available 1 
:I 

North, 3 miles nonh of Notre D:Hnt• , I W(:d;,. , '. . ; ; ·.·.,\~~ 
~-----~-·--------1# 
!7. Toward ,... Splka of <om 
10. 
Sip offtu 

11. 
Bounder 1!. J:xl8t 


II. 
New-, Yale'• city 

U. 
Nlmbuo 


16. Vory...,.r 
141. Dlmlnloh p11dually 
17. Group ohlpt borecoute 
.0. Plar'• per­80Dnel 
41. Poe'• "houM" 
thetWI 4 Liquid 1\ael 
a. FOIMd,_ 
41. GIYo the­tG, ......... to be 
Assistant Vice-President of Business Affairs Bro. Kieran Ryan "to see if men's dorms could install washers and dryers." Wesselen said that the 

Election committee holds meeting for candidates 
Last night a meeting was held 
All class1f1ed ads must be rece1ved by 5 00 p m .. two days prior to the issue mwhich the ad IS run. The Observer ollice w111 accept class1fieds Monday through Fnday. 10:00 a.m. to 5.00 P m All cla;.s11ieds must be pre·paid. either in person or through the mall 

Wanted 
for students interested in running for Student Body President/Vice­President. Mike Wookward, chairman of the election commit­tee, o~tlined the rules for the campatgn. 
The tickets for SBPI VP pres­ently are Dan Portman-~, Cynthia Anthonv-VP; Btll Roche-P, Bill Vita-VP; Paul Lewis-P; and Mike Haeney-P. Lewis and Haeney have not yet chosen running mates. 
Other students wishing to run for office should contact Mike Woodward or the Ombudsman. Further details will be in tomor­row's Obseroer. 
Need money? Sell me UCLA student tix. Tony 1423. 
PRINTING: guaranteed lowest prices anywhere. Resumes, posters. quality work. Student Union's Campus Press. Basement LaFortune, under the dell. Open 1-5, 5 days. Call 7047. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Bedford 288-2107. Hours: 8 am to 5 pm. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans $20-$150, 1 percent Inter­est. due In 30 dtys. LaFortune basement. 11.30-12.30 M-. 
FELLOW FLORIDIANS OF NO & SMC: 
There will be an Important meeting of the Florida Club on Wednesday, Jan. 31 at 7pm In the LaFortune Theatre. DUES WILL BE COLLECTED. 
Nocturne Nlghtfllght, WSND-B9FM, Hank Notar Donato features Trickster "Trickster" tonight. 
Need ride to Chicago Fri. Feb 2. CAll 6143. 
PART TIME JOBS: Excellent pay...work whenever you have time...no obligation. Write: SUMCHOICE, Box 530, State College, Pa. 16801...and start earning next week. 

For Sale 
Big, great speakers for sale, call 3322 or 3321 (Bernie). 
Cold? Nice warm hand made quilts for sale. 8269. 
HP-25 calculator, fully programmable, scientific. Call1780. 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7 Ralph Casperson, 1303 Buchanan Road. Niles. 683-2888. 
------~----------­

Lost & Found Tickets 
Needed: 5GA tix for Dayton. John 8894. Need Dayton tix. CAll Tim 8821. 
Need 5 Maryland tlx. Call Ron 4614. 1need any UCLA tix. Call41-4008. Desperately need 1 or 2 student or GA 
UCLA tix. CAll 41-4103. 
Need 2Dayton GA tickets. Call Joe 8588. 
HELP! Bobby desperately needs 4 (padded seat) UCLAtlx • $$$1 Please call 7607. 
Desperately need Dayton BB tickets, student or GA. Will pay good money. Call Larry 1205. 
Need 3 tlx for Dayton game...call Cindy 5762. Desperately need!!! 
WAR I No, just kidding, but I do need 3 Dayton GA tlx. (Not necessarily all together). CAll John at 3089. 
LOST: Odd color blue mitten. Wed. night near ACC. If you have It or know where it Is call1296. 
LOST: A light brown cashmere scarf with red and black stripes. Please call Karen at 6779. 
FOUND: Money, call and Identify. Phil 
11245. 
LOST: One gold medal on 18" chain. Christ profile. Reward 2103. 

For Rent 
Furnished lour bedroom house lor rent couple blocks from campus for next school year. 277-3604. 
1

1 need many Dayton B·ball tlx. Call 8937. 
I need UCLA tickets badly. Call Matt Need Dayton tickets! Big money call Paul
1780. 
272-5201' 
Dayton, Dayton, Dayton! Get the NEEDED: Tickets to UCLA B-ball game,
picture? I need tickets. As many as 
will pay$$$. Caii_Jack 8545. 
possible In any combination. Call John at 
3089. 
Need 2 GA tix to any weekend home b-ball game. Call Don 1059. 
1 desperately need two GA or student 
Need 4 Dayton tickets quick!!! Call Jeff 
tickets for the UCLA game. If I don't 
6749. 
come through my sister will have my hide! Call Kevin Dat 1787. 
WANTED: Dayton tickets, call Ann 41-5165. 
Need up to 6 Dayton tlx. Greg 1606. 
Need GA's for Dayton game. Call1840.
WANTED: 1 or 2 student or GA UCLA tlx. Will pay good$$$$. Call F.J. 1222. 
Naad Dayton BB tickets. Call Steve1857. 
WANTED: UCLA tix, call Mike 289-Need ride to Chicago, Fri. Feb. 2, call 9351. 
6143. 
MAFIA CONTRACT out on me unless I get 5 DAYTON tix as soon as possible. Some family members from East Coast coming In to make an offer Ican't refuseI Help;;all Guisepe at 3089. 

Personals 
Spring to life with Sundlncarl 2211 N. Main at McKinley In Mlshawakl. 256-0971. 
Need ride to Ann Arbor area Feb. 3·5. Will share expenses. Call Dusty 5183. 
Need ride to Chicago Feb. 3-5. Will share expense. Call Margie 5183. 
Today Is Cathy Riley's B-iJay. Call her at 41·4288 and wish her a happpy 20th! 
Happy B-iJay Cath. May 20 be the best ever. love, Torch, Bridge and Beethan 
Sundanca11 Have more fun! 2211 N. Main at McKinley In MlshaWika. 256-0971. 
Tom Perruccio was happy to see his friends from Indiana during break. While he is recuperating from his Illness he would be pleased to receive mall from the NO community. 
7Orange Road 

Middletown, CT 06457. 
Anne Johnson, R.N. 
Kevin, 

1 kept my promise, here Is your personal! ! Too bad I made you break your pact, but I had fun. 
Soupy 

P.S. Wish your roommate a happy birthday! 
To the Great Guys of 4th floor GI'ICII: Had a great time last weekend. Hope Elwood Is feeling fine. 
L.L. 

Chicago registered vote11 desiring absen­tee ballots for Feb. '£1 primary election, please call Kathy Byrne at 41-5425. 
SUN DANCERS TURN YOU ONI 2211 N. Main at McKinley In Mlshlwlb. 
256-0971. 
Matt and Mike: . Sorry Patsy and Laurl woke you 
Saturday morning!!! Don't worry, I can 
take care of myself. 
Beth 

P.S. Patsy Is still hanging from the Dome. NEEDED: I'm desperate!!! Need one student ticket for Dayton-Have to see old classmates creamed -41·5231. 
Senior Advisory meetng 6:30 tonight In the LaFortune Little Theatre. Senioc month plans to be discussed. All Interested seniors welcome. 
SundanctrJ Are for 111¥1111 2211 N. Main at McKinley In Mishawaka. 
256-0971. 
SUNDANCERS ARE NUMBER ONEI 2211 N. Main at McKinley In Mlshlwlkl. 
256-6971. 

Business opportunity: Introduce Sun­dancer to your friends. Apply: 2211 N. Main at McKinley In Mishawaka or call 256-0971. 
I've got a lever of 11M. 

Please send Get-well cards and notes to: John Malcolm 4Princess Lane Eatontown, NJ 07724 
CATCH THAT FEVER 
It Is rumored that a lot of people had a very good time at Pop Farley's birthday. Of course, some of them don't want to be reminded. 
GET THAT BOOGIE FEVERI 
Casper, HI. Surprise!? I guess this Is what they mean by 'power of the press.' LCT 

____,.....-----­



~~1L=·=1:==~==========================T=ue=~a=y=,J=m=u~==3=0,=19=7=9=-p=ag==e8. 
~ 

Grueling weekend pins Notre Dame grapplers 
by BiJJ MarqiiiJrd mdefmitely. Also, senior co­
Sports Writer 

captain George Gedney fell prey 
When it rains, it pours. And to the common cold on Saturday. fate cenainly poured on the Irish Thus, four Irish starters were wrestling team this past weekend missing from Saturday's lineup. as they aropped four decisions in "Because of the gaps in our as many matches. · lineup, Mark Gannon had to 
"Naturally, this has been a wresde at 126 although he hadn't very hard weekend for us," planned on wrestling last week­concedes Irish wrestling coach end,'' explains Sepeta. ''Like­Ray Sepeta. "We wresded some wise, we had to move Chris Favo, very tough teams, and although I Mike Wilda and Bill Moore each think we wresded fairly well, our up a weight class rather than relative inexperience proved· to forfeiting a match. All those be our downfall. factors added up to the big 
"There was a certain mental difference in the team score. toughness that was required "We had everybody from the agarnst our opponents this past Carroll match in the vans with us weekend, but that toughness is going to Columbus on Saturday,'' often lacking in younger wrest­reflects the Irish coach. "Morale lers. Granted, we could still seemed to bounce back. Where­mature a little physically, too, put as we had been pretty tensed up without that mental stability 'we before, we started to relax and I were knocked around alot. '' think that helped alot. The team 
In its fJrSt-ever meeting with wouldn't take defeat ·for an Nebraska Friday night, Notre answer.'' Dame fell victim to the Com­And the Irish did fare a little huskers, 37-8, an only co-captain better on Sunday, losing only Dave DiSabato and 167-podnd 28-9 to Ohio State and 35-10 to junior Mike Wtlda could manage Pittsburgh. decisions. DiSabato, Dave "Wild Man" 
The Irish then dropped a 36-9 Welsh and Favo each won both of decision the following afternoon their matches. DiSabato won 9-0 to the Blue Streaks of John and 12-9 decisions, while Welsh Carroll University. Once again, posted 4-0 and 7-3 decisions, the DiSabato was victorious for the latter over Phil DiSabato, Dave's Irish, as he recorded a second­cousin. Favo likewise won two period falL Chris Favo notched decisions, 7-4 and 7-3. Notre Dame's only other win on a As has been the case recently, 7-2 decision. 1 Dave DiSabato proved once again 
And Saturday's sideliners to be a bright spot for the Irish. could very well have spelled the His four weekend wins give him a difference between victory and 17-7 record, and his 62 all-time defeat. Junior 177-pounder' AI wins give him sole possession of Mattaliano suffered a knee injury third place on the Irish career win against Indiana State last Wed­list. His 71 takedowns are a mere nesday that could render him 10 shon of the team record 81 he inactive for the remainder of the had last season, while his 28 season. Freshman 167-pounder takedowns have already eclipsed John Iglat separated his ribs in the team mark of 19 he set a year the same match and is question­ago. able for the Irish in this week­The Irish will be gunning to end's National Catholic Cham­avenge their loss to John Carroll pionship. Freshman lightweight this weekend as they travel to the Greg Locksmith suffered a Blue Streaks' domain for the bruised elbow on Friday, which National Catholic Invitational 
was later diagnosed as a bone tourney on Friday and Saturday chip that coUld sideline him in Cleveland. 

Trackers display winning form in '79 season opener 
by Mark Perry Macauley and John Meyer won 
Assistant Sports Editor that event in 3:26.2. Aragon was also victorious in
The Notre Dame track team · the 600-yard run, fmishing aopened their home season in second ahead of the field atimpressive fashion last Friday, as 1:13.3.
they won 12 out of 15 events in a Other winners for the Irishnon-scoring meetagainst Bowling were Pete Burger, who won theGreen and Sill-Edwardsville at 880-yeard run m 1:56.75, Arniethe ACC. 
Gough, who took the high hur­''Over-all we looked very dles in 7.53 seconds, Dennisstrong,'' commented Head Coach VanderKraats, who was victor­Joe Piane. "We had many ious in the two-mile run inpeople that ran extremely well." 
9:18.45, and Jay Miranda, whoAssistant coach Ed Kelly took the 1000-yard run in 2:16.04. 
echoed Piane's semiments. "I Winners in the field events for feel better about this meet than Notre Dame were Ahmadmost of the meets we have had Kazimi, who leaped47 feet 1 inch over the last few years," Kelly to take the triple jump, 'Perry said. ''Usually we have a few Stow, who took the pole vault atgood performances, but also a 15 feet, Tim Kardok and Bobfew disappoimments. This time Caffrey, who tied for fu-st in thewe a lot of good performances high jump at 6 feet, 4 lf2 inches,and hardly any disappointments. 
and Tom Ferenc, who won theI'm very pleased in general. " shot put with ·a personal best ofLeading the way for the Irish 52 feet, 2 inches. 
was freshman Jacques Eady. The Deer Park, NY., native took The nationally ranked two-mile first in three events and placed relay will be competing in the Los third in the high jump and long Angeles Times Invitational on jump. Eady won the 60-yard Friday, while the rest of the team dash in 6.48 seconds, the 300-will be traveling to Kalamazoo, yard dash in 32.35 seconds, and Michigan to compete in the anchored the winning mile relay Western Michigan Relays on team. Eady, Chuch Aragon, Tun Saturday. 

Dame had won, could it have picked up some ground! But the Irish were one of those upset. None of the top five teams from around the league were able to muster a win. Last Friday night was just another typical one around the Western Collegiate Hockey Association. 
Michigan Tech walloped fu-st place Nonh Dakota, seventh place Denver beat second place Minnesota, Wisconsin tied up at third place Duluth, and last place Michigan surprised Notre Dame. Saturday night things were pretty" much reversed. UMD beat the Badgers and the three teams from among the top five that lost Friday were winners Saturday. It all makes the WCHA the WCHA. 
' 'This is the big difference in our league from the other collegiate leagues around the country," explains Irish coach Lefry Smith. "Any given team can beat anybody on any given night. Last Friday's results are just one night's won:h of proof of the balance around the league.'' 
Sure, by losing to Michigan Friday, Notre Dame missed an opportunity to close within three points offu-st place. But trying to come up with an explanation for the loss or bringing up all the ''What ifs ... '' that arise when you lose to a team you are supfosed to beat is like just coming out of a fina exam you're sure you've failed and comparing anwers with your fu-ends. It doesn't do you any good then, but you do it anyway. So here goes: 
"Talking about the game now and trying to come up with a reason for losing is just total conjecture on anybody' s part,'' said Smith. ''There are so many factors involved. You can shoot the daylights out of the opposition and still not be able to score. That is what happened when we played Michigan Tech two weeks ago the fu-st mght. It was almost a crime to lose after the way we played, but that is just hockey. The ~oaltender can serve as the equalizer m that mstance -Davt Laurion has done it for us this year. 
· "And you can goon and on. Saturday night, when we scored 10 goals against Michigan, it seems we got too offensive-minded, and then they score four in the last period. Again, you can never be sure of the exact reason, it's only guesswork. You can never dwell on something like this, you have to look ahead to the next game." 
For the Irish, that next game is tomorrow night at 7:30 at the ACC when the No. one team in the country, Bowling Green, meets Notre Dame for the 16th time. The Falcons, currently leaders of the Central Collegiate Hockey Association with a 14-1 record (25-4-1 overall), will supply a very severe test for the key pan of the Irish game ·-the forecheck. 
"We have very good overall speed," notes Smith, "and when we use it well on the forecheck we are at our best. Bowling Green is 
Brian 
Beglane 

a very physical team that has a very sound defense. They are an excellent backchecking team that plays the body well and also get good goaltending from Wally Charko and Bill Stankiewicz. Their defense and our forecheck­ing will make for a good matchup." 
Another key for the Irish will be to stop the Falcons' top line of seniors Mark Wells and John Markell and freshman George McPhee. That will put the Irish defense to the test, a defense that gave up seven goals Saturday. 
''We moved the puck much better on defense 
Saturday that we did Friday, but we still gave up 
some fluke goals," said Smith. "We're still not 
being aggressive enough in the defensive zone 
and are going after the puck too much instead of 
the body.'' 

''It was definitely pleasing to see us score the way we did," offered Smith. "We got some excellent hits with the forecheck and made full use of all five skaters on offense. It's the fu-st time we were able to do that since beating Wisconsin 8-2 in December." 
Tomorrow's game will also feature the rivalry between the two respective leagues, the WCHA and the CCHA. Come playoff time in March, it's a race to make it to the NCAA playoffs and then to the final four. The west receives two bids to the final four; the top team from the WCHA is guaranteed a benh while the second team from the WCHA goes into a playoff with the leader from the CCHA for the west's second bid. Bowling Green won that second bid last year, so the rivalry present is obvious. 
Dave Launon will be rested Wednesday for the Colorado series this weekend, leaving number two man Greg Rosenthal and third goalie Mark Schores as the two candidates for the spot. Rosenthal missed the Michigan series because of the flu, and a lot will depend on how he feels Wednesday. "We may split or go with just one of them, it's up in the air right now," says Smith. 
It will be the best from the CCHA against the fourth top team from the WCHA tomorrow ni_ght. Don't try and guess the outcome -like wtth finals, unless you have the questions in front of you, you don t know how you' II do on the test. 
BLUE UNES: Irish fr~shman phenom Dave Poulin is Notre Dame's hottest skater right now ... he has gotten at least one point in his last 12 WCHA games and the same for his last nine overall contests ... tomorrow's game will be bro~dc~st around campus on WSND (am 640) begtnnmg at 7:30. 





