-~ 
, , , Books kill page 6 
VOL. XIV, NO. 26 
S.U. ticket policy displeases Treasurer 
by Mary Fran Callahan 
Student Government Treasurer Greg Sebasky has expressed discontent after a 5-4 vote by the Board of Commissioners to retain the Student Union complimentary ticket policy. . Traditionally, 25 pairs of tickets for every concert are purcha~ed with student funds and provided free of c~arge for Student Unu~m 
and Student Government officials. Bill Roche, as Student Body 
president, receives one pair, and 21 pairs go to the Student Union 
director for distibution to workers in his commissions. the 
remaining two pairs went to the HPC until two years ago, when 
they refused to accept any more tickets. 
However, $2700 has already been appropriatedby Student Union this year to cover the cost of the tickets. Sebasky said that a heated discussion on this issue followed the Board of Commissioners' budget hearinss that concluded early yesterday morning . A motton to abolish complimentary tickets was proposed and then defeated by the 5-4 vote. 
Sebasky commented, ''The issue here is compensation versus no compensation. As I am approver of funds. I have to sign checks. I don't know if I can do tt in good conscience. This money could have been used for other clubs or organizations." 
The reasoning behind the complimentary tickets is that the tickets are a reward to Student Union workers for the work they do. However, Sebasky counteres, "We are a volunteer organization, and this is a matter of principle. Volunteers are not expected to be 
compensated for their jobs.'' Sebasky feels that Student Union officials already enjoy many benefits in the contacts they have and the people they are involved Commissioners allocate 
with. In addition, he commented, ''In keeping with the integrity of volunteer organizations, the benefits are certainly not dimin­
mone_y to or!(antzattons
ished.'' 

Sebasky, who wholeheartedly supported the motion to abolish the 
. by Mary Fran Callahan 
tickets, is not going to close the book on this traditional fund. "It has not been resolved yet; the subject will come up again." Further discussion of the issue and particularly Sebasky' s stand on After a total of 22 hours of 
it are expected to be brought up at the next Board of 
hearings this weekend, the Commissioners' meeting. Student Board of Commission­
Be~ins U.S. tour 

Pope delivers address 
.130STON (AP) -Pope ] ohn Paul II opened a pastoral visit to hi~ divided American flock yes­terqay, raising a shepherd's crozier to bless a drenched but ecstatic Boston. He had words of praise and friendship but warnings, too, for this rich and troubled nation. 
"I greet you America the Beautiful,'' the pope told a cheering throng in Boston Com­mon in the first major address of his six-city U.S. tour. "I want to tell everyone that the Pope is your friend." 
He hailed America as a free and generous land, but said its youth was being lured from religion to the empty "escape" of sexual J?leasure, drugs, vio­lence and mdifference. 
"I propose to you the option of love, which is the opposite of escape, ' ' the pontiff said amid a downl?our that had turned the histone common into a sea of mud. 
As many as 400,000 people crowded the park, waving flags, banners, handkerchiefs and whatever else was available as the/ope, dressed in white and go! , raised his arms in bless-mg. . . 
The crowds had stood under umbrella&, singing while they waited for the pontiff, who landed at Boston's Logan Air­port in mid-afternoon. His mot­orcade from the airport ran about 40 minutes late, but when he finally approached along Beacon Street, standing in an open car, his arms outstretch­ed, the throng broke into shouts and cheers. 
Umbrellas were lowered as the stirring hymn "Praise to the Lord, the Almighty'' signaled the Pope's arrival. He stood on the altar, brightly spotlighted against the dusk, and began the Mass: "In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost.'' 
The motorcade had changed its route to avoid a demonstra­tion by an estimated 1,000 persons protesting the shooting of a black youth at a football practice Friday. 
The pope had spoken of the dity's ractal problems in a visit to Holy. Cross Cathedral en route to the common, noting that ''people of all races, colors and creeds . . . have created workable solutions." 
Thousands lined the city's narrow streets as the pontiff's motorcade d,rpy~. from. Log~Q. 

spoke last in the Library Auditon·um on 
''The Contraceptive Ethic:Abortion and Natural Famtly Planning.'' 



in Boston 
Airport, passing through neigh­bo,thoods that represent Bos­ton's -and the nation's ­diversity. 
This is the nation's second­largest Catholic: diocese. More than two million of the area's 
5.7 million residents are Carbo­lies. 
Waving flags of papal gold and white, crowds a dozen deep along the sidewalks shouted "Viva il papa!" as the motor­cade passed through the Italian North End. Rosaries were held aloft as it whisked, too, through Irish "Southie" and the Hispa­nic section of the South End. 
Gold and white were every­where when the pontiff landed at the airport after a three-day visit to Ireland. 
The pope's Aer Lingus jumbo jet, the "St. Patrick," set down at 2:49p.m. EDTas a band from St. Ann's parish in Neponset, Mass., blared a we leone and waved flags of red, white and blue stripes. 
The pope, emerging from the jet in a brilliant red robe, kneeled at the bottom of the ramp and kissed American ground as a reception group of 400 church and gcvernment 
.. kaders cheered. and applauded. 
ers by a vote of 8-1 finally allocated its $128,353 to Stu­dent Union, Student Govern­ment and 21 out of the 50 clubs and organizations that request­ed funds. 
Student Union will operate this year with a lower budget of $61,694.91 and thus may have to cut some activities. Greg Sebasky, StudentQovernment treasurer, cited the primary reason for the budget cut as the Mock Convention--an event which is sch<:duled once every four years and has been allocat­ed $5,000. Student Government will operate on a $24,124.64 budget which is basically the same as last year's figure. 
The Hall Presidents' Council allotment of $15,000 is a 60 percent increase in funding over last year. "Because of the new party policy, we wanted to make our committment greater to HPC in order 'to help them improve the halls' social spa­ces," Sebasky commented. 
AnTostal received $1,500 less this year with a total allocation of $5,575. The AnTostal com­mission overspent last year by $5,000 and the Board felt that a lower budget would force them to manage their funds better. Sebasky, however, indicated the cut is going to hurt the activity, "I think we may have to allocate more funds for them for the contingency {und. Last year they spent $12,000." 
The Legal Aid/Student Ser­vices Division received $1,000-­the highest allocation made of the 21 clubs that were selected for funds. ''The. service is available for all students. They 
I,. ontinued on page B.] 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1979 
Carter says Soviets not withdrawing from Cuba 

WASHINGTON (AP) President Carter reported to the nation last night that the Soviet Union is not removing its troops from Cuba, but he s: d the contro­versy "is certainly no reason for a return to the Cold War" and should not block S, ·nate ap­proval of an arms treaty. 
Carter said he has received "assurances from the highest levels of the Soviet govern­ment'' that the troops are manning a training center in Cuba and offer no direct threat to U.S. security. 
Nevertheless, the president said, "We shall not rest on these Soviet statements alone.'' and he announced that the United States is increasing its own military presence in the Caribbean. 
The president said a far great­er threat than the Soviet troops in Cuba would result if the Senate refuses to ratify the strategic arms limitation treaty (SALT II) signed by Carter and ~qviet President Leonid Brezh­nev. 
In recent weeks, Carter had 
said the United States would act 
on its own to change the 
situation if no agreement could 
be reached with the Soviets. 
On one such occasion, he said, 
''The status quo is not accept· 
able." 

In his nationally broadcast speech last night, Carter said Soviet officials insisted to him that the brigade is a training unit, and not a combat unit,· "they will not change its func­tion or status as a training center." 
''We understand this to mean 
that they do not intend to 
enlarge the unit or give it 
addittonal capabilities,'' Caner 
said. 

The president also reported 
assurances that the Soviet per­
sonnel on the island' 'will not be 
a threat to the U.S. or to any 
other nation.'' 

It was understood that the 
Soviet assurances Carter cited 
were dealt with in a personal 
exchange last week between 
Carter and Brezhnev. 

Carter sent a message to 
Brezhnev last Tuesday, 1t was 
learned, and the Russian leader 
replied on Thursday. 

Earlier yesterday, Sen. Frank 
Church, chairman of the Senate 
Foreign Relations Committee, 
met with the president for a half 
hour briefing on Carter's spe­
ach. The Idaho Democrat said 
he thought SALT II could be 
salvaged. 

''I think we can salvage the 
SALT treaty, and I'm looking 
for a way to do it," Church said. 
"I don't think that SALT is 
scuttled. I believe that a way 
can be worked out that is 
satisfactory to the Senate.'' 





--~ 
--~ 


News in brief 
Tuesday, October 2, 1979 -page 2 
Ooses above $400
Severe thunderstorms cause on~y liRht damaRe 

Gold prices surge to record high 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. (AP) -One house was damaged and a woman suffered "very minor injuries" last night as severe thunderstorms bearing large hail and mini-tornados drove eastward through central Indiana and touched down near Moblesville, state police reported. Downed power lines ans limbs knocked off trees were also reported as a 10-mile wide line of thunderstorms, some with very heavy rain, moved through southern Indiana and southwest Kentucky, the National Weather Service at Evansville reported. The heaviest thunderstorms in early-evening were from near Tipton to east of Moblesville and from eastern Marion County to Franklin. A large area of lighter rain extended from South Bend all the way south to the Ohio River. 
Transcontinental balloonists .float across Indiana 
RICHMOND, Ind. (AP) -Four adventurers trying to make the first non-stop transcontinental flight in a balloon moved across eastern Indiana last night about 25 miles ahead of a heavy thunderstorm. As the balloon approached Richmond, near the Indiana-Ohio state line, it was moving on an east-northeast· course at about 18,000 feet, a spokesman said, Contact with the balloon was made throu~h a ham radio operator, the spokesman said. The DaVinc1 Trans-America is expected to nde almost due east. with a possible southerly shift. "We just have to see how much the winds carry then.',' 
the spokesman said. ''The earliest possible touchdown could be Tuesday afternoon or sometime in the early evening, in Virginia or the Carolinas." I 
' 'Disco weddinR' 'succumbs 
to countr_y music 
BOISE,Idaho (AP) -The music of Kim Cahill's and Debbie Marshall's wedding wasn't exactly the groom's favorite, but he couldn't entirely complain. Cahill and Marshall were married Saturday in a ''disco wedding'' at the Gastation Discotheque in Boise. They had wo~ the w~dding,. valued at $3,000 in a contest sponsored by Bo1se rad1o statton KBOI. The wedding packa~e included a th~ee-h.our cen;mony ~nd 
• reception at the d1scotheq ue, lodgmg to a bndal su1te, wedding J?hotos and a champagne breakfast. Only trouble was, Cahtll said he doesn't like disco ~usic. So at the couple's re9uest, the club played 45 mmutes of country music by W1llie Nelson and Leon Russell. 

Weather 
-Partly cloudy and cooler today. High in the mid 60s. Variable cloudiness tonight and tomorrow. A 30 percent chance for showers late tonight and tomorrow. Low in the mid 40s. High in the mid 60s. 



CamP-_u_s---~ 
.3:30p.m., WOMEN'S TENNIS, nd vs. saint mary's, AT ND 
4:30 p.m., BIO SEMINAR, "computer assisted floristic 
analysis of the brassiacaceae of sov1et union", by prof. t.j. crovell, GALVIN AUD. 
6:30p.m., MEETING, alpha phi omega, SECOND FLOOR LA FORTUNE all welcome 
7 p.m., CLASS· self defense, sponsered by the nd judo club, AT THE ROCK 
7 p.m. WORKSHOP, for assertivness training, 400 ADM. BLDG. 
7:30 p.m. CHARISTMATIC PRAYER RENEWAL 109 CHAPEL 
8 p.m., LECTURE, "karl marx: labor, class and the development of society" by lawrence simon, GALVIN :A.UD. \ 8 p.m. SOCCER, nd vs. goshen, AT CARTIER FIELD 
8 p.m. MEETING, ladies of notre dame, LIB. AUD. 
8 p.m. PRAYER MEETING, the-jesus prayer, AT MARY'S SOLITUDE WEST END SAINT MARY'S 
t I 
9:~·~; ~~~~~ ~~~T?· ;~1·~1J1~~~A~: :~ : : ~ . , ~-: : . : ~ . , ... ' 
t•I 
• • • • .. • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • .••• • .•• t • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
' 
LONDON (AP) -The price of gold surged to a record $414.50 an ounce in Europe yesterday as the U.S. dollar declined and was kept from dropping below last year's lows only by massive central-bank intervention. 
Gold closed at $413.25 in London after trading as high as $414.75 and ended at $414.50 in Zurich. It was the first time gold ever closed above $400 in 

_ Europe, although the level was touched Friday before prices slipped . 
There wert· reports of contin­ued _gold buying by Arabs and of efforts to sell dollars after a meeting between West German and American officials in Ham­burg produced vague promisr::s, but no specific steps, to defend the dollar. 

· Gold, which closed above $300 an ounce for the first time July 
New program for shuttle 

The Saint Mary's Co-ex Com­mission is implementing a new program for students who ride the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's shuttle bus. Each booklet of 20 tickets sells for three dollars and is good for twenty bus rides. This program is optional, and students .rr.ay still ele~t to pay the 15-cent fare each ume. · 
At Notre Dame, tickets will be on sale starting today at the. student ticket office. Tickets will also be sold in the Saint Mary's cafeteria today and tomorrow and in the cashier's office beginning Wednesday. 
This is an experimental pro­gram and will be subject to evaluation at the end of the semester. 
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor:Rod Beard Asst. Night Editor:Bill Kee­
, nan, Ryan "no doz" Ver Berkmoes, Cindy Kliros Copy Editor: Tom Kackman News Editor: Mike Shields Editorial Layout:Colleen
Sloan Features Layout:] ane Barber Sports Layout: Beth Huff-· 
man 
Sports Copy Editor:Mike 
Ortman, Cra1g Chval Typists:Kate Huffman, Beth Huffman EMT:Carrie Britt Proo/reader:Mark Rust SMC Day Editor:Peggy 
Schneeman Ad Deszgn:Fio O'Connell Photographer:Tim McKeogh, Dave Rumbach 
Tile Obstrvtr JUSPS B 112111 II published Monday through Friday u­cept during uam and ¥ICIIien perieds. The Observer is publisllld by till students of Notrt Dame llld Slltd Mary's Celllgl. SubleriJtila 1111y Ill purdlltld fir 1211 per year 1111 ,. Mllllltlrl f111111 The Observer. 1'.0. 1111 
D. NIIR bame, llldlalll 4llilil. s-d class postage paid, Nlln Dame, llt­dialll 41551. 
The Observer II 1 n.nlllr.:C 1111 
•AIIIeiallll."'-a. AH ,.~

.._.,.~. ' ... 
18, has climbed steadily in 
recent weeks. The dollar, after 
initially showing strength, has 
now dropped to its lowest level 
against the West German mark, 
Swiss frank and Italian lira 
since the United States mount­
ed a massive dollar-rescue ef­fort Nov. 1, 1978. 
In Zurich, the price of gold leaped $8 in the last two hours. The closing price was up from $396.50 at the close last Friday, $322.875 a month ago and $213.875 at the start of the year. In London, the closing price was up from $397.50 last Friday. . 
Gold, wl:ich uaded at $35 an ounce a decade ago, hit $200 in July 1973 and then took a year to climb another $100 and less than three months to hit $400. 
"There's a lot of overseas 
buying," said Frank Schumaci, 


HUNGRY? 
Try Popeyes spicy delicious caJun menu. Delivery service available to campus from 
Tom • Grace Hall-2187 


"oPe~es-­
FAMOUS FRIED CHICKEN
1636 N .. 

Tuesday Oct. 2, 1979 7pm-3am 
Ramble the Recs from Georgia Tech 



3 Oly Grenades 
(7 oz. cans) 


$1.00 
Raffles for mugs, hats T -shirts, etc. 
All Night 
.. . ,
. . 
• ;. l ~ I. • ' .. • ' • ' • t • '1 
a gold trader for Marcus & Co. 
at New York's Commodity Ex­
change. "A lot of the commod­
ity pros are out of the market. 
Eventually, somebody's going 
to come in and sell this gold, 
but right now it's going to the 
moon.'' 
''No one can afford to sell gold in this market," said a trader at Samuel Montagu and Co. Ltd. of London. "If you get caught short $8 or $9,you have to sweat it out." 
He said Arabs and other major investors were unloading shaky dollars to buy gold. "What else can they do with their dollars?'' _ 
Some were buying other met­als such as silver, platinum and copper. The pnce of silver leaped $1.19 in London to a 
[continued .on page 5] 
~ 

The Observer Tuesday, October 2, 1979 ~ page 3 

lJS iurisdiction ends New flag waves; Panamanians celebrate 
BALBOA PANAMA (AP) ­The Panamanian flag was raised over the former canal zone yesterday. Hundreds of thousands of Panamanians marched in for a look and for ceremonies marking the end of ...,5 years of American jurisdic­tion. 
There were no reports of the violence some. U.S. residents had feared as an estimated quarter of a· million Panaman­ians surged toward a zone airfield for a transfer ceremony attended by . Panamanian leaders, Vice President Mondale and some Latin heads ot state. 
Many carried miniature red, white and blue Panamanian flags and looked dazed as they wandered through well"kept residential areas. Others danced in to the blare of salsa bands and the pop of fire­crackers. 
A few Panamanians staggered in drinking from rum bottles after a night of prolonged revelry marking effective date of the new Panama Canal Treaties: 
During the ceremony under a blazing sun at Albrook Airfield, President Aristides Royo de­clared: 
''From this moment on, the Panamanian flag will fly above Ancon Hill and Panama begins to excercise jurisdiction over its entire territory. 
''The Panamanian will no longer be judged by foreign laws in his own nation Now there is no country within a country. Now the Canal Zone 
ACC 

co~fiscates 
stolen tix 
by Phyllis Washington 
More than half of the season football tickets stolen from South Bend residents' mail­boxes in early September were recovered at the football stadium gates this past Satur­day, ACCticket manager Mike Busick said. 
Busick also indicated that the fans who tried to use the tickets described the scalpers as "young high school students." But he added that he is unsure of whether or not the high school students are the actual thieves. 
Dean of Students James Roemer stated that ten student tickets were also confiscated Saturday at the stadium gates from persons who tried to use the tickets improperly. 
Commenting on any trouble that might have occurred in the stadium among students as a result of his dtrectives against alcohol consumption in the stadium and the use ofbanners Roemer replied, ''The students handled themselves very well.'' Roemer added, however, that there was trouble with a "non­student" who "smuggled in cans of beer, was caught and got thrown out by South B.end police." Roemer emphastzed that he is just as concerned about drinking by non-student 

; 
has been erased and only remains as a bad memory in the annals of history. ' ' 
The 10-mile-wide by 50-mile­long canal zone, whose exist­ence ended at midnight Sun­day divided the country of Panama in half . 
Under the treaties President Carter and former Panama Chief of State Omar Tortinos 
' ' . . . the Canal Zone 
has been erased and only remains as a bad memory in the arinals 
of h1s. tory ... " 

signed in 1977, the zone government also went out of existence and the 35,000 Amer• icans living in what was the zone now are subject to Panamanian laws. Under U.S, jurisdiction, Panamanians· charged with committing crimes in the zone were subject to U.S.laws. 
Torrijos, who hea~s Panama's national guard, dtd ·not take 
South Be.nd plans 11hole" 



pro_ject 

:by Tom Hay 
Final preparations . are now underway for the $30 million downtown "hole" project in South Bend. Plans include a 300 room Mariott hotel, .and a First Bank building of a:pprox~ imately 150,000 square feet. A story high glass atrium is to connect the two structures .. The project. will also incorporate about 700 below·grade ·parking spaces. 
The· downtown "hole" is bounded by Michigan, Wash~ ington, St. ] oseph, and Colfax streets. 
If all goes according to sche­dule, official groundbreaking ceremonies will be held on Oct. 
19. An architectural model and conceptual drawings will also be exhibited at this time. 
First Bank President Chris Murphy expects the current project to produce "a jewel in the center of the city," he said. "We selected the architects to do something significantly dif­ferent. We would like to attract regional and national atten­tion." 
HelmutJahn of C.F.Murphy Associates, a Chicago·based architecture firm, is the chief architect for the project. 
According to Carl Ellison, South Bend director of redev­elopment, "the project is of such a magnitude that it will change the dynamics of down­town development in South Bend.'' . 
Ellison cited economic and employment benefits, but said that confidence in South Bend would be the ·most important spin-off. The "hole" should help generate more develop­ment with further benefits to the city," Ellison said. 
Public funding for the project comes from an Urban Dev­elopment Action Grant under a program initiated by President part in the ceremony ·at the airfield, but was to participate in a ceremony transferring mili­tary command of the zone. 
Mondale told the crowd: "I am here today to say we will honor the full terms of the treaties.'' 
The Vice President praised the canal builders. and operators,Panamanians · and Americans alike, aiid mentioned the human sacrifice from all other nations involved in building it. Panama takes over most basic services in the area, along with the operation of the ports and railroads, and becomes land­lord of nearly 1,000 houses in 
whicq  canal  company  em­ 
ployees  live.  A  new  U.S.  
government  agency,  the  

Panama Canal Commission, will operate the canal until the year 2000. 
Mardi Gras 
chairmen and 
architects meet 
There will be a mandatory meeting for all hall Mardi Gras chairmen, raffle ticket chair­men and architects on Wednes­day night at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. It is important that everyone attend this. first organizattonal meet­ing. 



HONEYWELL IS COMING 
...To Notre Dame 
To Interview Technical Students Who Are Interested In Environmental Control 
On Campus Interviews -October 8 
Long before the present energy crisis, Honeywell was actively involved in pioneering computer aided, environmental control systems for large commercial, industrial and institutional buildings. At our Commercial Division in Arlington Heights, Illinois, we are embarked on bold new development programs to make present systems even more efficient. We are also involved in applying sophisticated technology to the design of fire protection and security systems for commercial buildings. We can offer an interesting and rewarding career to students who will be graduating with BS or advanced Degrees in: 
Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering 
Our location in the Northwest suburbs of Chicago offers easy access to a wide variety of cultural, recreational and educational activity. Housing can be found in all styles and price ranges. If you are interested in applying your knowledge to the solution of complex environmental concerns, please meet our recruiter. If you are unable to meet with our recruiter. please send your resume for review. We are an equal opportunity employer/male & female 
Staffing Supervisor 
Commercial Division 
, 

" ...andplease let me get G.A.s for my brothers and sisters." [staff photo by Tim McKeogh] 
( ViaKes a ChicaKO 
Join the SPANISH-CLUB! 
l
~ 
~ Organizati?nal HafJIJ_y Hour · . Fn. Oc~. 5 ~ For mfo. call: Prof. Rlchardson232-0435 ~ · Carol Smith 7893 Mike Golden 3815 ~ 



Cultura Hispanica J
L 

The Observer Tuesday, October 2, 1979 -page 4 
Student observes action 


A night with N.D. Security 
by Ann Hesburgh 

Last Friday night not many people were awan: that Ken­neth Needham reported his wife missing or that an over­turned golfcan was obstructing traJflc between the Continuing Education Center and D-1. But not many people needed to be aware, because those in charge had everything under control. 
Tbe ten security officers who v.orked the 11 (J.m. to 7 a.m. shift Friday mght/Saturday morning were busy not only with routine buildmg checks and transport calls, but others. DuL to the first home game, the 
campus was more active than usual. At 1:25 a.m., shift commander 
Sgt. William L. Knll received a 10-78 (need assistance) from the security guard at the main gate. Kenneth Needham, a member of the band who played at the pep rally, could not locate his wife. She had told him she "wa~. going to go wait by the van. 
Prior to this call, Krill had spoken to a wom~In who flt Needham's description when making his routine check of the grounds behind Stepan Center. When Krill asked her what she was doing, and if she needed help, she replied, "No thanks, I'm just waiting for the band." After Krill took down the necessary information, the search for Debbte Needham began. "Many calls were made. 
Msgr. Egan speaks at CILA Weekend 
by Tim Mitchell 

Msgr. Jack Egan spoke on a theme of justice and compas­sion to 90 students at the Community oflnternational Lay Apostalate (CILA) annual Orientation Weekend last Sat­urday. The Orientation Week­end was held at Camp Tamer­ack in Michigan and ran from Friday evening through Sunday after1,100n. 
The Weekend provided an opportunity for new members to learn more about CILA and the activities it is involved in locally as well as worldwide, according to CILA Chairman Mark Wathen. 
Egan, who has been a special assistant to University Presi­dent Fr. Theodore Hesburgh for eleven years, spoke for rwo hours on his interpretation of the Christian message. He explained the need for a fight against injustice wherever it is found. Egan mentioned his hope that Pope John Paul II might call us to be "a people of awareness and a people of justice" upon the Pope's visit to 
the United States. 
Egan said that the question of bringing justice to our society is a call to all Christians, not just priests and clergy. In working for justice, Egan said that we, as Christians, should not avoid conflict or controversy. 
He said, ''There is nothing more controversial than a man hanging on a cross." 
Egan's speech was part of the CILA weekend's overall reflec­tion on justice and how it relates to students in the Notre Dame -Saint Mary's com­munity. Other activiues on the weekend included community service reports of CILA' s volunteer work in the South Bend community. There were also project presentations by ten CILA members who worked during the summer in social justice-related capacities. 
Egan commended these proJects, saying ''This is the kind of work that gives us all a hope and a vision. Each of us must be more sensitive to the needs of others and, therefore, we have an imperative to acuon. 
Tutors meet .for boat 
people 
Students, teachers or anyone else interested in helping teach English to the local boat people, are invited to attend a mef'ting and workshop in the basement of the St. Joseph Church at 226 
N. Hill Street (entrance on La Salle Street) tonight at 7 p.m. The session will last till 10 p.m. 
This per'Son sail& off to meet his tutbf.'•• fphotb hy. :Um •. ·.·.. to•rl).ts.t.rw•. m,apy,~l!llt)ar:,·pn~s 
One of the first to bt" contacted was LaFortune's manager Francis Gorch who said that no one fitting her description had been seen. 
When asked to what extent Security would investigate, Krill said, "We'll keep digging until we come up w1th some­thing.'' 
At 1:57 a.m., Needham's investigaiton became 10-24 (as­signment complete). Debbie Needham had received a ride home from a friend. Krill breathed a sigh of relief and said, "Now I feel better." 
Earlier at 12:20 a.m., a radio call was received. "Brown van just ran th~ mai_n gate -10-~5 (occupants mtox1cated)". K.nll assisted the call and pulled up behind the van that was now parked between Dillon and Alumni Halls. Within ii·,e minutes this case was coded 10-24. The Michigan driver 
was  cited  with  unauthorized  
admission  and  escorted  off  
campus.  

Other calls scratched over the radio at varying intervals during the eight-hour shift. At 
11:45 p.m., a student was caught walking away with one of the main gate's sawhorses. Earlier, notice was taken of three males sitting in a tree near Farley Hall. 
At 12:20 a.m., the main gate called and reported that another car had run the gate, and at 3:07, two students were spotted with two cans of paint. ''Krill is a good man, there are none better,'' said Bill Mclean, former OBUD director and friend of Krill's. "If there is anyway to save someone's re­putation in a report, he will.'' 
At 3:35 a.m., Krill received a call from station one (security office). Two former Notre Dame students, Tom O'Neil andJohn Rooney, needed a ride to their car that was located several blocks from Jefferson Blvd. downtown. "My ex­perience is that Notre Dame security is -understaffed and over qualified," said O'Neil. ''Security sometimes comes across as being hard-nosed, but actually they are very willing to listen." 
The Notre Dame student who was allowed to ride 52 miles with Sgt. Krill last Friday night learned more than just routme police codes and terms. She learned that the 11 p.m. to 7 
a.m. crew are dedicated people and willing to help the students sometimes more than the students realize. 

'Annie' tickets sell out 
The Student Union Cultural Arts Commission has announc­ed that their trip to the Chicago Production of "Annie" has officialg sold out. The venture 
was a ar greater suc~ess than 
anticipated, with a total of 88 
tickets being sold in only rwo days. Since then, at least as many individuals requesting tickets have been turned away. The Commission attempted to 
order additional tickets from 
the Shubert Theater in Chicago
with no success. Because .of th_e O\_'eryvhe_lf!I,io~ ~e.sp!lJ;l~e 
..... 
::l 
<D 
..... 

12miles from campus livery Service and group rates for The Beautiful St. Joe or the challenging Dowagiac River. 320 N.Redbud Tr. Buchanan, Mi. 616-695-2250 


$1.00 
-
A
. "' 
WILL GET 
1 highlighter 
1 Bic medium point pen 1 -If 2 pencil 3 sheets of typing paper and a penny for your thoughts 
! 

i-----ms,normr~c~~,
I 1I I  ~ • .  In the 100 Center o1e~s IO%offon \ EVERYTHING I with ID & coupon :' ,  II II  
I  RECORDS, TAPES, paraphernalia  1  a  

·----------------­

NAVY NUCLEAR PROPULSION •. THE FASTEST WAY UP 1 • 
· · : . · ·
If you want to get into nuc ear engmeenng, 'start .Y gettmg into the Nuclear Navy. I •I · · · 
The Navy operates more than half the reactors in America. Our nuclear training i~ the most comprehe~si~e. You start by earning your commission as a )Javy\ Otficffr. Then we give you a yearofadvanced nuclear training. quring your career, you'll get practical, hands-on experiencj' with 
our nuclear powered fleet. · . 
If that sounds like the kind of responsibility you're looking for,. sp~ak to the N~yal Officer. Reprr¢se.lltatjy~/wb~J} •. h~ 'visits your Placement O~fice on :•;. Ottober 3 ~ndi4-;or
.. 

. 
._____________________________ ~~~ 
McKeogh].>., ...... _.•.••••••••••• , ~ .!~-~:--~~ 11.. ~~ Pf~~\appf~L\0~ ~\~·-) £¥J-h9~l~~t}_.3. 1.~~·??7~~~~~-.~· .. 1 .! 1 '· o\ · · · • ····I· ..:. ·1 · · ·
1. , , ( , ' I « I I I , « • a I 0 ' , • I •• ••• «.. I , .. I , ·, •,), I, , ", I, I, I, '··, ,.,,,u,U.I.CI, ... I. " .. '-... t ll.' l' l I • I I ·.: I I I t I' I I • ' I I I I I 1 _l • j J. J .• ' .l .• I I ' • J l I I I I ' . . ~: I 
-
• 
The Observer Tuesday, October 2, 1979 -pa,ge 5 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~( 





''Dotner hat'' controversy comes to a head 
by Rosie Lawrence 

A difference of opinion SJJr­rounds the newest Senior Class fund raising project, known as ''domer hats.'' 
Nick Schneeman, Senior Class president, said that the hats are very popular among both students and alumni, es­pecially at last weekend's foot­ball game. 
"At first, we were concerned about the reactions to the hats, whether or not they were sacrilegious, but the Dome is a symbol of the University, and it's even on the D-2 parking lot stickers," said Schneeman. 
Another viewpoint was ex­pressed by Father Mario Pedi, Senior Class moderator. 
"I feel that they are in poor taste," Pedi said. "Perching a statue on someone's head is taking something precious to 
Lei!(hton chairs Art Board 
Members of the Friends of 
the Snite Museum of Art Board 
of Directors have been announ­
ced by Mrs. Judd Lei~hton, 
chairperson. The orgamzation 
has been formed as a focus of 
community support for the $3.3 
million art museum that will 
open to the public next fall on 
the Notre Dame campus. 
Board members, from South Bend unless otherwise indicat­ed, are Dr. Stephen L. Ander­son; Mrs. Jon S. Armstrong, Elkhart; Mrs. Russell G. Ash­baugh, Edwardsburg; Dr. Douglas Barton; George J. Chiames, Granger; John R. Cooke; Mrs. Arthur Decio, Elkhart; Mrs. Joseph Donlon; Mrs. Ronald V. Emanoil, Gran­ger; Dr. Frederick J. Ferlic, Mishwaka; Mrs. Jan Green; Mrs. Charles Hayes and Paul 
A. Henderson. 
Also, Mrs. Michael Leonard, Granger; Mrs. Bernard Lev­atin; Dr. Eldred MacDonell; Mrs. Robert H. Michaud; Christopher J. Murphy; Mrs. Andrew Nickle, Mishawaka; 
James Peacock; Mrs. John H. Platts, St. Joseph; Mrs. Her­bert Schiller; Mrs. John C. Schuster; Mrs. Ted Sharp; Mrs. William Shroyer, Mishawaka; Mrs. Kurt Simon; John Trant, Granger; Donald F. Walter and Warren Wheeler. 
Thar.lks to you ... it works ... 
for 
ALL 


OFUS 


UnitedWay 
a close of I.7930 marks, up declined against all major cur-Admission $1.00 


EETFOUR 
PEOPLE WHO FOUND 






CAREERS WITH NSA. 
COMPUfER SCIENTIST MATHEMATICIAN 
"My objective on graduating from "As an NSA Mathematician, I have the 
college wcu to obtain employment with opportunity to perfonn research on a 
a leader in my professwn. NSA fulfilled wide variety ofsophisticated and 
that objective. The histon'es ofNSA challenging cryptologic problems. The 
and the computer have been large body ofmathematicians 
intertwined since the on'gins ofboth; employed at NSA providEs for 
NSA continues to be the paceseller in stimulating dialogue and healthy 
the data systems field -presenting collaboration. The work is enjoyable 
opportunities to be a part ofthe latest from a personal standpoint and there is 
technology being developed and used the added satisfaction of knowing you 
industry-wide. " are making a positive contribution to 
matters vital to our nations security. " Edward Johnson 
B.S. Computer Science. Dr. Ross E. Schipper B.S., M.S., Ph.D. Mathematics 
ELECTRONIC ENGINEER 
"As a college student faced with finding a job and starting a career you are presented many options. NSA should be one ofyour considerations. Working at NSA hcu been both a challenge and a continual/earning expen'ence since our mission demands that we work on the cutting edge of technology. I have experienced the satisfaction that comes with having been a 
LINGUIST member ofproject learns "Being a linguist, one of my concem5 involved with a varr'ety of centers on the opportunity for 
computer systems and continued education and professional 
communication~ problems. " 
growth. NSA linguists can attend Mark Walch

language and other job related courses at the Agency's own National B.E.E., M.E. Cryptologic Schoo£ at local colleges and universities and at summer workshops. The work affords every 
PUT YOURSELF IN THE PICTURE
opportunity to sharpen language skills 

in a challenging and rewarding At the National Security Agency your future wiU be linked to the nation's. Whether your atmosphere. " interests are in electronic engineering, computers, mathematical research or high priority translation, you wiU play a meaningful role in the nation's communications security or the
Elizabeth Thompson 

production of foreign intelligence. NSA is chaUenge. NSA is opportunity. 0 National
M.A. Russian 

Security Agency headquarters are located in the pl~nt Maryland suburbs, close to
NSA seeks those individuals 

Washington, D.C., Baltimore and Annapolis, Maryland-just minutes away from countless 
possessing skills in the Slavic, Mid· 

Eastern and Far Ecutern languages. cultural, historica~ recreational and educational opportunities. 0 Find out more about career opportunities offered by NSA; schedule an interview with us through your CoUege Placement Office. Or call us collect at 301-796-6161. Mr. Bernard Norvell, College Recruitment Manager, wiU be happy to talk with you. 0 National Security Agency, Ann: M32R, Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 'lff755. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
U.S. Citizenship Required. 
• f • ' •• f I 
.. , .• t .
'

NSA National secUritY AgeDcy ... 'I' .. ) .. ' llllllllllli~ll~~~~~~~~~~~~,l...l.l'lol'l'l'l'l'll····lll·l'll'l·i'i'li·i·i·~~~~~~~~~....................lllllllll~:~~----4 


some people and desecrating it." 
The hats are constructed of plastic batting helmets and statues glued together and spray painted gold. Schneeman said that when he and his running mates were campaign­ing for class office, the hats were considered as a possible money-making scheme and that 
continued from page 2 
peak $17.51 a troy ounce. 
West Germany's central bank mounted its biggest dollar res­cue operation· of the year, buying more than $87 million at the afternoon fixing in Frank­furt, market sources reported. 
That helped boost the dollar to they would be a novelty. 

Student reaction has been mixed, with some students saying that they were amusing but not worth the price of five dollars. 
Jeff Huhta, a senior business major and hat owner, said "the hats are pretty funny, and they get a lot of looks from the alumni. Actually, they're kind of satirical. I think they are the epitome of rah-rahness." 
Another sebior business major, Roberta Rolwing, said "I wouldn't be caught dead in one of those things. I wouldn't even waste my money on something so tacky.'' 
All yroceeds from the contro­versia hats are for the ND-SMC Senior Class. 
• Gold 
from a low ofl.7365 marks but rencies except the Japenese 
down from 1.7410 Friday. The Y.e':l· T~e Japem;se are fightingrecord low of 1. 7285 marks was nstng mfTauon 10 wake of od set last Oct. 30. price hikes. 
. Swiss and American authorit­One German dealer said the ies also were reported by dollar's problem is the wide­dealers to have spent large spread belief that President sums to support the dollar, but Carter is unable to solve Amer­the American currency still ica's economic ills. 
Student Activi · Programming Board Movie Series 

Thursd~v & J: riday -October 4~5 :OOpm and 1Q·OOp Carroll Hall t~MC) 
,:." ;i .. "'., .. .., ... .;. ~ .; ~·., •· .~ ·-~ i ~ } _4 .. ~-.J-~: '~ ... .!.. ... * J... •.• ~ J.. ..... ..&. t . .!. ~.;t. J... ,~ ......... ~ ~ ..... --...................... ~ "" ..... ... 
' 
' 

......_ 
Editorials 
Tuesday, October 2, 1979 -page 6 
' 
Turning point or point 

o_f no return? 
Rarely, in the_ course_ of ~merican politics, has 
th_ere been a ume quite !Jke It. As theater, it 
otfers suspense, an aura of crisis and a dash of 
melodrama. In reality, it is a critical period--for 
both the President and the country. There is no 
denying it. Jimmy Carter is in serious, possibly 
Irrevocable trouble as President·of the United 
St~t.es. The sundry que_:;tions concerning his · 
abtlny to handle the off1ce to which he was 
elected three years ago arc no longer whispered 
but are blatantly shouted. There is the 
suspicion, growing deeper with each passing 
day, that America has slipped into an age of 
dangerous uncertainty; one which neither the 
President nor the country can afford. What 
brought on this crisis of leadership? More 
Importantly, how can we, as a free people 
remedy the situation? ' 
From the beginning, Jimmy Carter stressed 

the neeJ for "government to be as good as its 
people " This singular theme became the 
cachet of his highly unorthodox campaign for the 
White House. And, when he had won, that 
-;arne theme was carried over from campaign 
promise to domestic policy following the 
inauguration.
\\ tth the tirst several months of the Carter Administration devoted to getting 'acquainted" with Washington and insp1ring the American people with the Carter style, the nation as a whole seemed willing to place their trust wholeheartedly in their new, seemingly-dynamic President. The ·•·alk nown Pennsylvania Avenue on Inauguration n:n· The radio phone-in show. The town meetings. The fires1de chat. The energy speech to Congress. Symbolic? Certamly. Played up? Definitely. But importa~t to the An:terican people? Absolutely.' The natton reveled m the fact that the President of the United States wore blue jeans had a warm and affable smile, and was not 'part of the establishment that had produced Vietnam and W~tergate. The people were beguiled by the emgma of Carter and Carter basked in the light of national approbation. 
Somehow, however, the beacon of Carter's "Cam~lot" began to dim. We noticed it for the first ttme dunng the Bert Lance affair in the autumn of 1977; the worst of it came as the gas ~ines grew longer this past summer. Myster­IOusly and yes, even tragically, the approval the A~erican pc;ople so willingly afforded the new ch1ef executive had worn quite thin. Now, it appears that Carter's beacon is about to go out--this time for good. The transformation of a President, backed with the confidence of the people, to one totally bereft of a clear national consensus is not unusual in Americ~n politics. In fact, it is a common occurrence. It happened to Johnson as a result of Vietnam, Nixon as a result of Watergate. But, what makes the Carter situation so unusual (and that much more 1rag1c, 111 my fJpinion) is that here we have a 
Marc]. Halsema 
man--dedicated, honest, compassionate well­
intentioned, a nice guy--who cannot s~em to 
inspire, either in himself or in the people around 
him, any semblance of leadership. 
In Carter's approach to leadership, he has from 
the start difft>red markedly from his predeces­
sors. He ~as been almost as f!!Uch a suppliant as 
an authonty, a man searchtng for an elusive 
consensus in town halls and along Main Street. 
He has walked more among the people than 
ahead of them. Now, it is painfully clear that 
Carter's brand of leadership has not weathered 
the test of time, or the test of Washington. As a 
result, Carter is faced with challenges--real and 
lethal--from not only the Republican Party but 
from within his own political establishment. 
Senator Kenne~y. if (n:tore precisely: "when") 
he announces h1s cand1dacy for the Presidency, 
may v~ry well lea~ a stampede to New York City 
for h1s coronation as party "king" and 
presidential nominee. Govenor Brown of 
California hopes to lead a similar crusade in his 
own right. 

So there we have it. A Chief Executive without 
a base of_support. Pr~sident Carter is in danger 
of becomtng the first mcumbent President since 
Chester Arthur in 1884 to be denied re-nomina­
tion ~y his own party. . The. prognosis for 
Amenc~, at the same ttme, 1s equally dis­
heartem~g. Never before has this country been 
faced wtth such a plethora of difficult and 
seemingly insurmountable problems. Yet, there 
appea_rs to be no direction coming from 
Washmgton. Not even the seemingly mystical 
qualities of Teddy Kennedy may suffice to help 
cure the national malaise. 
In. this period of discontent however with Jimmy Carter, with criticis~ of his 'actions ~anging from t~e shrill attacks of environmental­Ists and the wtld accusations of consumerists to the not-so-subtle maneuvering of presidential aspirants within his own political party, we would be well-advised to remind ourselves that he's the only President we've got. The beating he i_s taking IS in our behalf. We are not an easy n~tton to govern, as Mr. Carter has so ruefully d1scovered. 
Political pundits of late have Jetermined that Jimmy Carter has reached--if not passed--the crossroads of his Presidency. That may very well be true. What few others besides the President so clearly recognize, however is that it is not only Jimmy Carter who stand~ at the crossroads; America, too, has come to the fork in the road. The singular reward that Carter may reap from his four years in the White House is exactly that--four years as President and not a single day more. For President Carter, boldness has become a necess~ry _gamble. If all goes well hereafter, he may wtn lt. But, boldness itself gives hostage to fortune. When it fails anywhere, everything can go awry. If that happens now, Jimmy Carter will be not at a turning point but at a point of no return._ 


P.O. Box·Q 
Hall renovated 
Dear Ediwr: 
During the past summer, Holy Cross Hall received some much needed, and long awaited re­novations. The administration is to be commended for its efforts to alleviate the hall's overcrowding, and to improve the hall's tnterior ap­pearance. 
For the second consecutive year rooms were added. This past summer, twelve doubles were constructed in a portion of the hall's basement. Although the rooms offer no view, and will probably be cold in the winter, freshmen have been spared the inconvenience of overcrowded triples. More importantly, the construction utilizes space which had pre­viously been used to store Secunty's repossessed bicy· 
cles. 
Amoth~r major project com­pleted last summer was the replacement of the hall's anci­ent, erratic, and inefficient1 heating system. Holy Cross is one of the few buildings on campus that has heating \)ystem independent of the coal plant. Standing radiators were re­placed with baseboard radia­~ors, a~d the gas-supplied heat­tng umt was also replaced. 

The hallways received a fresh coat of paint, which has gone a long way in covering decades' build-up of dirt and plaster patchwork. Repair has also been done on the weathered exterior, most of which is almost ninety years old. 
Dorm living is the hub of N.D. social· life. It is refreshing to the see the administration act­ing, rather than talking, about physical improvements. The work does not offer a long term solution to the housing problem but it does show some admini­strative concern for residential life. 
Thomas Donnelly 

HCNR.Y KISSIMJER'S "7H& IA/H!m­P/A$H YEAR.$" IS NO Of(f)INARY /JOOK. ~IS "TIMe" ~N6 IT liKE ave. Blt.L turXlTliN, "llH5N MA/(/(E71M31J11?13C7VR, eXPLAINS. 
7JEN THIS 5/.MW/?,1$frJmJ /TON! AN EXCUJ51V/3ff{fl;R.VtEMI, A FOUR­PAGE COLOR. SPREAf) ON HIS 5.4/..T I£CTUR&, 7kKJ mr£5 ON HIS NA7lJ sPECCH! I MEAN.~ PtlfftP a' 
/fffl{/zy FRt»f ~ 70 
M3tL, /AI& SQJ/({fl) SifJIA/, IQ& RAN 71-lt USUAL StMI-ANNIJA/... K155/N6E!I?. PflOfl/..55, R£P(;¥(TS ON 7H5 P.U?I<-IN-~ A fflU 


MCNTTON5 IN Oi.IR 'Pt:OPL&"StCTlOJ.. 
/XJANY
N/31QS STOR/55? 


Books Kill 
WASHINGTON--What do the Russians fear from us the most? It's not our cruise missiles, our nuclear sub­marines, our B-52 bombers or our new MX system. They're afraid of our books. 
This came to light once again when American publishers were invited to the Moscow International Book Fair. The Soviets confiscated 44 books (there could be more by the time this appears), including five editions of the "Best Pictorial Cartoons" from the years 1972, 1975, 1976, 1977, 1978, published by Pelican; all of Alexander Solzhenitsyn' s books; "The Illustrated History of the Third Reich" by John Bradley (Grosset and Dunlap); "A Cartoon History of United States Foreign Polley" by the editors of Foreign Policy Assn. (Morrow); ''American Ballet Theater" by Charles Payne; "Hitler" by Joachim Fest, and 
George  Orwell's  ''Animal  
Farm.''  
When  I  read  the news,  I  

called up Boris, my KGB con­tact at the Soviet Embassy in Washington, and told him, "I've just microfilmed 'The Complete Scarsdale Medical Diet' and I ~hought yoi.! might want to buy 1t from me." 
He instructed me to meet him on a park bench near the Lincoln Memorial. He told me to bring along a bag of bread crumbs so we could pretend we were feeding the pigeons. 
I made the rendezvous, sat down next to him and passed him the microfilm. He slipped me an envelope with ten $100 bills. 
Art Buchwald 
''This is very good work,'' he said. "What can I expect next?" · 
I replied, ''I know a guy who works at the Discount Book Store in Chevy Chase. He has access to 'The Complete Book of Running' by James Fix. It will cost you, though. The guy thinks he's being watched by the manager. Tell me, Boris, tt must be impossible to keep books out of the Soviet Union 
. that are printed in the West. Why does the Soviet Union go to so much trouble?" 
"Books kill," he whispered. "lt must be terrible to be afraidof books. They look so innocent on a shelf. It's hard to believe they could do so much damage.'' · "It isn't the books, it's what is in them that we're concerned with. Our people are happy and love the Communist system. We don't want trash from the West to foment hatred and insecurity. The price of a true Marxist society is constant vigilance. Besides, you have no right to ask me all these questions." ''Don't get smart with me,'' I warned Boris. "I am your only source for an autographed copy of 'Sophie's Choice.' I happen to know the author." "I'm sorry I lost my temper," Bons said. "But we've been under tremendous pressure from Moscow. Sever­al people who subscribe to the Book of the Month Club man­aged to get visas to attend our book fair, and they're putting all the blame on us." 
(c) 1979, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The n~ws. is reported as accurately and 


-The Observer_ 
as obJecuvely as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor .................. Mark Perry represe~t t~e opimon of a majority of Managing Editor ..... ..... Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Edttonal Board. Commentaries Editonal Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor ............. .Doug Christian 
opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ...... ..Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor.................... Mark Rust Production Manager.......Tim Sullivan of the University of Notre Dame du lac an~ . the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertzsing Manager ......... Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It d~ not op1mons on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor ..... Ell~n Budd)! ControUer......... ......... Kevin Manion necessarily, r'dlect the policies of .the encouraged. SMC News Edt tor ........Marg1e Bra_~il Circulation Manager ...... .Greg Hedges 
·I l I}' 
"'; 


• 

,..__ --­



Features 
Tuesday, October 2, 1979-page 7 
A Call for Conversation 
Ma-ny sincerely motivated members of this communtty share the lament of Andy Young: Why can't we at least enter into conversation with one another? Isn't it more healthy to get things out in the open? Isn't this a way to deepen respect for those we too quickly label as' 'enemies''? And isn't it only when we subject our notions to input from other points of view that we come to fuller truth? 
All well and good. But how to do it? Part of the frustration I sense comes from not having a forum for such necessary -community dis.cussion. True, it's hard to fashion an ideal means. Lectures don't strike us as-all that productive; nor does the ''town meetmg" approach. Perhaps one (heretofore largely untapped) resour­ce is The Observer. We've seen evidence in recent days that this year's' editors are very open to providing a forum for the ground swell of sentiment calling for a chance to discuss and debate issues that deeply concern all of us. 
For example, there is a great deal of concern about the basic purpose and vision for Notre Dame. Some are charging that N.D. is reneging on its commitment to undergraduate edu­cation. As more and more emphasis is placed on making this a top-level research center, the argument goes, the undergraduate classroom suffers. 
Teachers are no longer freely 

Ten Years After... 
The actor sits comfortably slumped in a chair in the green room of Saint Mary's O'Laughlm Auditorium. He wears a purple shirt, faded blue jeans, a navy blue dress coat, and white sneakers. At 5'7", he has a small frame, and his short brown hair is dotted with patches of gold. His speech is deliberate, but interspersed with many "you knows". 
f:k .sJJtY~y.s-tbe room, for it contains many memories from Rl$. undergrad­uate acting days. Althou~h it··:~ called the "green" room, 1ts walls are white Only the floor is green. Mounted in a long row across three of the walls are framed photographs of scenes from productions of the past 15 years. The actor is in some of them. 
Lance Davis, Class of '69 and. now a professional actor, has returned to Notre pame to play the title role in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Thea­tre production of' 'Hamlet''. With its. opening performance on Oct. 5 and its final one on Oct. 13, it will be the first major production to take place in Washington Hall in the past ftve 
available to inves-t themselves in their 
courses, tv counsel students or . to 
render service to the university 
community. 

Those who argue this position insist 
that the tenure process exacerbates 
an already-deteriorating situation. They visualize a "Catch-22" synd­rome: In order to survive, a faculty member who is not tenured has to do the exact opposite of those things that contribute to making Notre Dame a unique Catholic university. 
Here is the way one faculty member (a tenured professor) put it: "Lamen­table as it may be, the best way to get tenure at N.D. is to disassociate oneself from the institution; that is, spend as little time as possible on teaching and counseling students and on departmental or general univer­sity service, and as much effort as possible gaining points with 'the outside,' through publishing, invol­vement in national organization, giving speeches away from campus, etc.'' 
Others in the community see the above charges as gross·ly unfair and unsubstantiated in fact. They argue that, first of all, it is crucial to recognize· that there is absolutely no inevitable opposition between scho­larship, exceflent teaching and ser­vice to the community. It is simply fallacious, they say, to set in basic opposition research and undergradu­
years. 

Since his graduation, Davis has acted steadily on stage, television, and in commercials. His stage credits include work with the Circle in the Square in New York, the Long­worh Theatre in New Haven, the Guthrie Theatre in Minneapolis, the Arena Stage in Washington and the Geva Stage in Rochester. He has performed such roles as Bernard in "Death of A Salesman", Scapin in ''Scapin'' and Launcelot Gobbo in "Merchant of Venice". His televi­sion credits include ''Adams Chroni­cles", "Beacon Hill" and "School for Scandal''. Most recently he por­trayed Nipper, a cockney, punk rocker in an off-off broadway produc­tion of Nigel Williams' ''Class Ene­my". 
Born in Philadelphia, Lance Davis moved to St. Lou1s after his sopho­more year of high school, where he became very involved in his new ] esuit school. His first role was the psychiatrist in "Teahouse of the August Moon". His interest was sharpened when he saw Dick Bower, an actor on tour trom Catholic University, get a standing ovation for his rendition of Hamlet. 
Davis came to Notre Dame in the late 60's, he quickly went from a small role in "The Firebugs", to the leading role in ''Guys and Dolls'', "Luther, "Camelot", and "Rhino­cerous''. He was in the first Angiers program which he describes to be a ''civilizing e~pm~~-·----­
One-thing.. Davis had trouble with was the boy-girl situation of the late 60's. Notre Dame was all male at the time. 
"Ya-8,000 guys-no fun and really depressing", he says with a sigh. "I mean there's this thing they call school spirit, I think keeping 8,000 guys penned up for 5 days a week and then bringing in busloads of college girls from Chicago on the weekend, you know that's not school spirit, that's something like human bon­dage." 
Th~se busloads of girls would flood 
the campus. On weeK1eQ( that is now the Nazz, 
Fr. Bill Toohe_v 
ate education. "It is not at all · incomPatible," they state, '"to have , Notre Dame advance as a ce~~er fp~ hi_g~ly-qualifi~d research while mamtammg the h1ghest stan­dards for undergraduate education.'' 
In~ividuals who c:;mbrace this point of v1ew also quesuon _the veracity of the harsh charges agamst our tenure process.. "It is simplistic," one told me, ''to paint such a black and white picture. The tenure procedure very clearly rule-s out a faculty member, who would not spend time with students outside the classroom and contribute significantly to the general welfare of the community. In addition,'' he pointed out, "although too few people know about it, there is a process for actuating a tenure · decision reversal.'' 
Thus, there is a sizable group, it seems, who consider it completely realistic to anticipate that Notre Dame will be able to a ztract to her faculty those who possess the quali­ties of scholarship and of excellence 
· in teaching. "The two are simply not mutually exclusive," one professor told me. "Of course," he added, "finding this combination in one who also is Catholic complicates the search." I've been finding other strongly held com;i"ctions. for example, "Notre Dame has to be flexible enough to allow for some teachers who are not 
people wandering t.'ound and circ­ling each other in a "dance of death, sort of eyeing targets.~' Although ''nothing went on'' at the dances, the students had the feeling that some­thing was. It just happened to be occuring at some other pan of the room, they thought." 
When Davis went onto graduate school at the University of Minneso­ta, he had trouble adjusting. Out of the 42,000 students there, 26,000 were women. According to Davis they were all Scandinavian and looked like a cross between Liv Ullman and Britt Eckland. "I didn't make it to class the first week. I mean I just sat in the middle of the quad and stared". 
Davis got to Minnesota by winning a McKnight Fellowship, a ''type of Rhodes Scholarship for Drama stu­dents. It paid for two years of graduate school plus one year con­tract with the Guthrie Theatre. 
He credits Dr. Reginald Bain, of the Speech and Drama Department and the director of ''Hamlet'', for the encouragement needed to try for it and to follow it through despite the likelihood ofhis being drafted. It was also Bain who nominated him. 
Davis wasn't drafted though. Instead, he became a regular mem­ber of the Guthrie. After five seasons there, he moved to New York City in 1075. Three days after his arrival, he got a role in a pilot of "Beacon Hill" on CBS. He currently works out of New York, doing work at nearby theatres such as the Longworth and the Arena. The offer to come back to Notre Dame fit perfectly into a gap in his schedules. He is scheduled to open the dramatic season for the Denver Center of the Performing Arts next month. 
What other reasons brought him back? 
''Specifically Reg Bain. I wanted to work with Reg again. Plus, "pe says as he runs his hand over his head, "I wanted to come back and see what people were domg, how the land lay, Wflat kind of students we were turning out, and how the department 
whether or not they were 
'. 

~ 
renowned as researchers, and for 
some who do research and littkt, if 
any, classroom teaching." · "A 
Pll;rti~ularly tricky thin~. in a!l . of 
thls, another added, '1s av01d10g 
the loss of excellent teachers in favor 
of ot~ers. who may be onlY. slightly 
supenor 10 scholarship, while clearly 
mediocre in the classroom." 
In much of the current rumblings, one detects a lot of accusations that rather uncritically label the adminis­tration "the villains in the piece." But one is not quickly convinced that this comes from well-informed sour­ces. A nagging question persists: Is it not true that the 1dministration leads the way in the struggle to keep Notre Dame Catholic, and, quite frankly, enjoys a better track record than the general faculty in promoting value-oriented education, the neces­sity for service and the enhancement of the total educational experience for students through extra-curricular ac­tivities, hall life,• etc.? 
In sum, it is hard to see how we could fail to benefit from rational debate and civil conversation on the many questions before us. I've touched on just some of them, in an attempt to encourage the discussion. But there are others, as well; especially those that pertain to the elements th~t will_be essenti,al for Notre Dame s survival 10 the 80s as a uniquely Catholic university. 
Andrew Dempsey 
getting short shrift.'' 
''The students are always interest­ing to me that God bless their innocence, they just keep rolling along." 
Leaning forward in his chair, he offers this admonition: 
''The Notre Dame imagination is an amazing thing. The students here aren't stupid. You get a basic intelligence here that is quite re­markable.'' 
"There's very often a huge gap between how that's applied to the1r everyday life. It's a sort of turn off of their minds when they ~o to . Goose's, which at a certain ~I of maturity seems to be the a......:tive thing to do and God knows we all do ' it, but I mean it seems to me to be a tremendous amount of it here.'' 
Davis thinks that the student actors here are quite good, but they lack required technical knowledge that a faculty the size of the Speech and Drama Department's is too small to give." 
''There has to be a certain com­mittment, which I fail to see, made by the administration of the schools as to whether or not they want a fine arts program and whether i~'" going to be more than a playground.'' 
He says that another thing that hampers prospective performers here is the number of required courses they must take when they could be takmg more essential drama courses especially during freshman and soph­omore years. The more drama courses one takes, the better chance one will have in graduate school. 
Davis sees the department as being stuck in bureaucratic red tape and second guessing. There is a lack of purpose that, "seems to be every­where else in our society.'' 
''I was hoping that was over when I left here,. I thought that perhaps ­after much chaos some common find would've been established and there would be a single point of view, there would be a dedication by the Univer­sity toward the education of the artist. But I wonder now whether or not once again it seems · to have slipped its · ''· 


The Observer Tuesday, October 2, 1979 -page 8 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Texaco gasoline because alcohol costs , marking the start of Texaco's here," Orr said .. became yesterday the first ma­more than gasoline," he said. gasohol experiment, said the 
jor oil company to be~in mar­"It will be a higher octane fuel not only has the potential of He said another factor may
keting sasohol in Indtana, in­product. If a car performs with conserving gasoline, but it also have been the legislature'sTexaco auguraung the experiment in a clatter, a noise, on lead-free provides farmers with another 
decision earlier this year to 
21 stations here. gasoline, them this higher oct­outlet to market grain. remove the state's 4 percent ane gasohol should contribute "I'm told the strong agricult­
Until now, gasohol -a mix­sales tax from gasohol sales. 
ture of 90 percent unleaded to eliminating that clatter," he ural influence in this state was a gasoline and 10 percent alcohol The sales tax adds three -has been sold in the state cents to four cents to the price

' It's obviously going to be higher priced 
primarily by the Indiana Farm of a gallon of gasoline.Bureau Cooperatives and by 



markets 
than lead-free gasoline because alcohol costs 
some independent gasoline sta­Texaco did not indicate how tions. more than gasoline.' long the test marketing pro­Texaco is testing gasohol in gram would continue or wheth­Indianapolis, Boston and New er it would market sasohol York. said. pivotal element in Texaco's nationally if the three-clty test 
Spokesmen for the oil com­Rentz said Texaco's motive in decision to test market gasohol is successful. pany said sales will begin in the the gasohol test program was to two Eastern cities i!1 ::bout two "stretch our limited supply of weeks. gasoline so there will be more 
Karen S. Halstead, associate fuel available to the consuming 


gasohol 
• • . Allocations 
director of thf" Indiana Petro­leum Council, said at least one Lt. Gov. Robert D. Orr, who 
in Indiana public." continued from page 1 
originally requested funds didother major oil company is parttcipared in ceremonies handle cases as well as tax or
planning to use Indiana as a not appear at the Board hear­
legal advice. We felt it was a 
test market. But she said the ings and thus could not be
very valid allocation," Sebasky
company has not formally an-allocated any money. 
explained.

nounced its plans. · The clubs and organizations Sebasky also mentioned that
Fami(y
In addition, she said, Amoco slated for funds <Lre: Pep Rally because of the fixed $17 studentColle~e is testing gasohol in several Committee ($100), lnternation­government fee and the infla­Midwestern states, but not in Black Business Students($75), tionary situation, the Board ofRepublicans Indiana. Nationally, Phillips Center Math Club($50), Gymnastics Commissioners is going to ask Petroleum is test marketing the the Board of Trustees to raise
Club($300), Lacrosse
alternative fuel and other oil the fee to $20.00 next year.
($250), AlA Student Chapter
or~anzze comeanies are ex_ploring the needs ($100), United Way($119.80),posstbility of selltng it, she
The Colle~e Republicans will Dome Yearbook($300), ND­
said.

hold an imtial organizational SMC Right to Life($150 for
Texaco spokesman Charles

meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in the educational purposes only), LaFortune Little Theater. All 
Rentz said gasohol would be volunteers CILA($250), Women's Advisory ... "Hole" 
sold at a cost slightly above that Club($510), Delta Phi Alphaare welcome. 

of lead-free regular gasoline. 

($100}, Water Polo Club($400),
The op~ortunities for gettin~ 
"It's obviously going to be

involved tn the various Presi­Men's Volleyball($300), N.D.
The Family and Children's
higher priced than lead-free

dential campaigns, as well as Historical Society($50), Tech continued from page 3
Center of South Bend is looking 
local politics and campus activi­Review($250),Japan Cfub($50), 
for volunteers. to help move
ties, will be discussed. Anyone Rugby Club($250), and Finance Carter in 1977. South Bend is 
furniture and equipment that Club($200). to receive $7.6 million in federalinterested in Republicanism Simon 
were salvaged from a fire that 
Sebasky has sent letters to aid, which it will use for theand the Republican Party is '.l 
destroyed their former building 
tile dubs notifying them of the construction of the atrium and 
urged to get involved. discusses Sunday night. The staff of the parking garage portions of the
I amounts they will receive. If
center has moved all the items 
they are unhappy with these project.
to an adjacent structure for 
figures, they have two weeks to Financing for the hotel struc· 
storagf', but will need help in
t--A_R_M_A_N_DO_'_S~I philosophy ture will come from Industrial
appeal directly to Sebasky's 
BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 
I~JI ~. 
IUJil,.OOcl u•. -..(;t;tl i3t;Jlcl 'II/-( ,().'11 

'-lit:. J?tJI f it • t\lrn \1 rwu ll)··-.1 ,.,._, 
mon -wed -fri 8-5:30 tues-thurs 8-Bpm sat 8-2pmby appt. only sat-no appt needed 
transr-orting the goods once a 
office. Reallocations will then Revenue Bonds negotiated bync:v f. ility is secured. 
be made from a $1510.98 Rahn Properties, the actual 
Lawrence Simon, visiting in­Tht {.·nt~r provid~·s care for appeal fund set aside by the owners of the hotel which will structor in philosophy at Notre adolesn Ills, offers family and Board of Commissioners. be operated by Marriott. Dame, will discuss "Karl Marx: marital counseling, and holds a Sebasky said that the primary FBT Bancorp, parent com· Labor, Class, and the Develop­day care center for neglected reason some clubs did not pany of First Bank and Trust ment of Society" at 8 p.m. and abused children among receive funding was that they Company, will handle finances tonight in the Galvin Life other services. for the new bank building. 
had no specific activities plan­Science Center auditorium. According to Jerry Ringle, ned that would directly benefit Although three parties are 
His talk is the third of a series involved 10 putting the project
director of residential programs the students. Major external 
of public lectures this fall together, Ellison said that it
at the center, a new location sources of revenue such as 
exploring selected works in would be harmonized as a
should be acquired in the next football concession stands and 
politics, literature, art and sci­single architectural under­
few days, at which time much club dues also influenced the 
ence in the 19th century. Entitl­taking.
help will be needed to move in. final selection. Class councils 
ed "Evolutionary Images of Despite all the optimism
He and the other staff members operate on a break-even basis 
Humanity,'' the series is spon­surrounding the project, there
would greatly appreciate any and thus were not allocated 
sored by the College of Arts and still remains a posstbility that
help offered by members of the funds. In the case of regional
Letters and the Department of ND-SMC community. clubs, the Board felt the outside things may not work out as Philosophy and supp~~ted by a revenue from baggage trucks planned.
Those interested in helping
grant from the Nauonal En­''In a project of this sort,
was quite large. The Board hasout should watch the Observer
dowment for the Humanities. also never . funded regional many things can happen to 
---------~-------------­




RIVER CITY RECORDS 
notth•tn ln.dl~n~'a l~tgeat t•cotd ~nd t~pe a•lectlon ~nd concert ticket headquatt .,. 

Jl.OO OFFIJ 
an.v albuM ot tape (now rhr•10et. 15 limit I coupon per erson) 


18,000 albuma and t~•• In atock 
ND/StnC atuc:t.nt chttekt <:ll~c•ptecl for up to 
120.00 ov., putchQH amount Op•n 10 to 10, 7 da,YI a wMk 

------..~·~--.,
Rivet Clt.Y Recotda I

I 
l I 50970 U.S. 31 Notth 3 mil•• ttc;>~ of c:~mpua , 217-4242 
for notices. 
derail it," Murphy said.

clubs before. Some clubs that 
I "Critical issues are controlled by other entities' but I'rn as
! 

optimistic now as I ever was." Peter Nemeth, South Bend
ND's head of microfilm mayor, said it was 98 percent 
favorable that the project 
would materializ'e. Possible obstactles to the

department dies at 43 
project are mainly concerned with funding. Federal UDAG funds were not to be released Clark developed one of the until yesterday, the first day of
Francis P. Clark, head of the 
nation's most extensive micro-the new government fiscal year. 
microfilm deranment at the 
film collections of Catholic Industnal revenue bonds forUniversity o Notre Dame's 
newspapers, going back to the the hotel are tied to the receiptMemorial Library, died yester­early 19th Century and repre-of UDAG money for Southday in South Bend's Memorial senting 30 states with national Bend. If a snag in the processHospital after a brief illness. 
and diocesan newspapers. His would occur, p_l®s~_.fi>!:. _!he_
He was 43. 
At Notre Dame since t"'A:,4;·--W..t~~_g_in __ C~tholic Ame~ica~a projeq mR'r'rrave to be altered. began as a y'oun-g man m 11.~~ 1'ne "hole" has been the native Louisville in the late scene of two thwarted develop­1950's, where he began re-ment attempts in the past. The
Young 
searching numerous pa~ish~s area was acquired and cleared for the Diocese of Loutsvtlle to out from 1971 to 1973. OriginalDemocrats the late 1950's, and continued plans called for a complex to be at Notre Dame, where he was a erected by the AssoCiates Cor­member of the Committee on poration, but the project was

meet tonight 
the History of the University. scuttled when Associates moved As many as 100 researchers a their home office to Texas. 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's year used the materials preser-The construction ofa regional Young Democrats will hold a ved by Clark, ranging from shopping center, or :·super­meeting in the LaFortune Ball-microfilm files of all Universi-block," was the next t~ea for room ronight at 7:30. Plans for ties publications to restoration the ''hole,'' but thts fell the upcomhrg year will be of ol~ films imp.or~ant. to the throu_gh in 1976. T~e la:nd has discussed and !'\t'"YI. ~ r 1' ath.h:tu;·and.ac.ademtcJUst.Oty .of: remamed 'acant unul thts sum-

are welcome. 
.I>Jotl'.t. Oame:. ;,.·;.':,·, •_.-;::;.•tner ; ••• • • .•.• ' •..•. .' 
I 

• . .. • . • . t • '.f 
~\' .'J'i..'•.··,-•r't' '.'t\" ' J}A."''.'i.t...J,<~. 'f·{'://.. --..
-.---·-11!..'!1.•.!11!'.,!11!..-~.-.111.>11!1.11!1~11!1.••1!11.1!11.~-II!.•~.-.,1!111111111~·... ...... .'·cr­
o,.,.
I -~ I I! I 
..... ' .• i .. . 

The Observer Tuesday, October 2, 1979 -page 9 






Soccer '79 
N.D. vs. I.U. Friday, Sept., 28 

! -1 .
.

-------I-~'­
The Observer -Sports Tuesday, October .2, 1979-page 10 
Crowell leads field hockey
o • ••


Netters 

team to win with four goals 
[continued from page 12) by Carolvn Carson momen~um by tallying two
Sports W nter 
successtve goals.
That confidence carried the But the Irish caught theirpair to a 3-6, 6-0, 6-4 victory. 

In a ream sport, such as field second wind, sparked by Cro­With the doubles victory, the hockey, it's rare for one player well, whoJla~ed in both gam­Irish carried a 2-1 lead into the to dominate the scoring, but es. Goo , flat passes fromsingles competition. It didn't that was the case Friday nisht Claire Gambacorta and Erintake long for thl!t lead to when the Irish defeated Manon Burns enabled her to fire twodisappear, however.· Losses in College 2-1 and DePauw Univ. strong shots into the DePauwthe number-one and number­3-2 at Cartier Field. cage and racked up the secondthree singles put Notre Dame in Pat Crowell took full advan­Irish win of the year.
a position it wasn't exactly used ta~e of her offensive positionto. The Irish trailed in the Fnday night scoring four of five match 3-2. A win by Tina Irish goals in the two games.

Stephan at number-six evened 


Molarity

Excellent passes and well coor­the match, and then Carol dinated offensive play alloweds:lukis, a sophomore transfer Crowell to run wild.
student from the University of 

Vermont, put the Irish ahead Marion got off to a quick start by Michael with her hard fought 6-4, 6-4 with a goal in the first five 
Molinelli
viuory. That left the top doub­minutes, but a shot by Crowell les partners with the task of for the Irish tied the contest closmg out a Notre Dame before the half. Efforts to break vir.wry. Legeay wasted no time the tie were unsuccessful and in rloing just that, as she forced the gamr-into two seven­trounced Teresa Bosse 6-1, 6-0. and-one-half mmute overtimes. Hoyr-r then came back after a Finally, in the second overtime ~ha y start to win her match period, sophomore left wing and pad the Irish victory mar-... Irish nine Diane Cherney scored the win-
gin, 6-3. . ning Notre Dame ~oal. After the match, Irish coach Due to the overtime periods,Jory Segal summed up her the second game started late,
team's performance, "We [continued from·page 12] added three more. but it didn't take the new 
knew that Central Michigan seventh inning. The ftrst six "Gallinaro looked really forward line long to warm up. was going to be tough, because Irish batters that' inning scored good," noted Kelly. "He made On a pass from co-captain Sue 
they are a scholarship team, on the strength of RBI singles the pitches he had to when he McGlinn, CroweU powered a • I'm really pleased with the fact by Andrews, Mark Simend­had to, and our offense came shot into the DePauw net to rhat the/irls played as well as inger and Dan Voellinger and a through as well. We're continu­give Notre Dame the lead in the they di , espec1ally in those · sacrifice fly by Montagano. ing to hit well." second half, though the Irish matches when they were Andrews finished with four For the Irish baseball team, defense seemed to tire as the down.'' RBI s for the game and Szajko the game is certainly not over. DePauw offense picked up 


IN FACT YOU-~ 
MI6HT Kft/0\N 
H/1"'1

ACROSS 25 Legislator: b2 WWII craft 21 Grow


The Daily Crossword 

June hono-abbr. 55 "Brother-" together rees 26 Kin to the 56 On the main 22 Meat pro­5 Official raccoon 57 Marx Broth­cessor records 28 Former, ers movie 26 Grant 9 Musical formerfy 62 Central 27 Arabian finale 31 Large bird theme sultanate 13 552, to 32 Combo 63 Leander's 28 Triumph 
Claudius 34 Broadway beloved 29 Word with 14 Stop up flop 64 Sullen mad or hot 15 "-My Sou· 38 Dress seam 66 Legal paper 30 "-Miniver" 
venirs" 40 Harden: var. 67 In any way 33 Realtor's 17 Mao Tse--42 Transaction 68 Timber wolf transaction 18 -sapiens 43 Emblem 69 Serf 35 Marsupials 19 Networks 45 Ilk 70 Dizzy or 36 River into 
of nerves 47 Sports org. Daffy the North 20 Mans Broth-48 Felt sorry 71 Being: Lat. Sea 
ers movie for 37 "Same Time 23 Transport • 50 "Look Back DOWN Next-" 24 Flap in-" 1 Insecticide 39 Overturn 
2 Astringent 41 A Carew 3 Extinct 44 Ta.llest reptiles animal 4 Official 46 Chore 
seal 49 Hankered 5 Yearned 51 n~­6 Satiate 5<! .... ·"I 
7 Grant's-one 8 Tropical 53 Nig..t noise rodent 54 s,,...u 9 Relative of monkeys 
a reindeer 56 Oak fruit 10 Augury 58 Aspect 11 Grandpar· 59 Dream: Fr. 
ent, e. g. 60 Rug or code 12 Aromatic 61 U-boats herb 65 Fish deli· All Rights Reserved ~~iii 16 Pant cacy 

a • a I a


~ a I a
\Free Shampoo & Condition _ 1 wjth any Hjlir Servic~ &lif.!Oil ot ~~ouwood ill g~d/1 -+?rnd i nr\'f tCl Cophi CRef.!fu~/l(ll1f Hours a Mon 8:30-5:00 Tues. 8:30-5:30 Wed. 8:30-6:30 Thurs. 8:30-8:30 Fri. 8:30-6:30 

:~:'·,'<':, ~O '~~~·~ ~=~~~4~0; ··'I; r:~:e ~~4-6767;,
.. 

f' •';' I • ' , '',' 1 .. ·-.... • ,'•" •·.... •, •., ...... , t, t';' '•rt,:'l":'-~ '• '' ' • • •,• 1
1 1 1 1 1 1 

MANAGERIAL POSITIONS FOR WOMEN 
Why be a secretary when you can be an Officer. In the Navy, you can have a real job, with real responsibility, and a real fu­ture. Also a top salary, travel opportunities, and outstanding benefits. 
For complete details, contact: See the Navy Representative at the Placement Office, LeMans Hall on 3 and 4 October 1979, .or call LT Carolyn McLean at (312) 657-2169, collect. · 
--. 
t • ·
to,."' I' •
'' ::': It ' 
0

0 0 0 
-~~.~~,:-':'.~.,-:,.~.~.-:-.=-:-.,7,7, 7, 7~7.:-,';'"', ';'"', :-.--..,-,,,-,-:"-:_.-_--...,.~--_.,...._.,....=-:-:_-:_-:_-:,-::,-::,-::_-::_-::_-:-,_____,
.. 
........... 
1 
..............·..·.

~ ,••~· •.; ,......... ••·,:..• ,: ,: ,: l". ,: ,.! ,: ,:,.· / .... ~· ..·,.. ('' ••·,. r·t" ,. r'/ :-'·_J •..•. )."';"···"· '·. ·-, ·--'· •. r t, ·-'w.'-'"•· '•:' ·'11!-'"f'•, '"i·'" -.,.,.. • .,. .... ·""· .• r ... ~ / i ..... ..,..•~ ....• / f-r-'1"~ .... ,... ,• t .~-. ...·.~.-... /It~~~~.~,.,:,· ......·lll.fl':r,-'· " •. t •.· .-... 
~-~-~--­
-------4 
1 
' 

The Observer -SportsBoard Tuesday, October 2, 1979-page 11 
' 
Monday Night Football Green Bay 'l1, New England 14 
AP TOP TWENTY 


Football 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
EAST 

w L T PCT. PF PA Miami 4 1 0 .800 113 78 New England 3 2 0 .600 130' 91 Buffalo 3 2 0 .600 154 104 
N.Y. Jets 2 3 0 .400 120 164 Baltimore 0 5 0 .000 62 104 
CENTRAL Cleveland 4 1 0 .800 101 94 1-louston 4 1 'o .800 117 100 Pittsburgh 4 1 0 .800 109 71 Cincinnati 0 5 0 .000 78 149 
WEST San Diego 4 1 0 .800 142 81 C·mver 3 2 0 .600 79 91 Kansas City 3 2 0 .600 103 60 Oakland 2 3 0 .400 78 112 Seattle 1 4 0 .200 93 123 NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
EAST Dallas 4 1 0 .800 112 93 Philadelphia 4 1 0 .800 93 72 Washington 4 1 0 .800 114 67 St. Louis 1 4 0 .200 76 98 
N.Y. Giants 0 5 0 .000 58 118 CENTRAL 
Tampa Bay 5 Minnesota 3  0 2  01.000 . 119 71 0 .600 87 106  
Chicago 2 Green Bay 2 Detroit 1  3 3 4  0 0 0  ,400 .400 .200  81 89 B4  82 87 125  
W EST  
Los Angeles 3 Atlanta 2  2 3  0 0  .600 .400  B4 78 101 104  
New Orleans 2  3  0  .400  121 129  
San Francisco 0  5  0  .000  89  137  

I 


Baseball 
Major League Ptqaffs 
Tonight's Game 
Pittsburgh (Candelaria 14·9) at Cincinnati (Pastore 6-7) California (Ryan 16-14) at Baltimore (Palmer 
10-6) n 

Thursday, OcU California at Baltimore 
Friday, Oct.5 
Cincinnati at Pittsburgh Baltimore at California, n 
Saturday, Oct. 6 
Baltimore at California (If necessary) Cincinnati at Pittsburgh (if necessa1ry) n 
Sunday, Oct. 7 
Cincinnati at Pittsburgh (If necessary) Baltimore at Valifornia (If necessary) n 
Tennis 
Notre Dame at St. Mary's -3:30p.m. 
No.3-Becky Crespo (CM) def. Karen Smith 6-3, 6-4. 

St. Mary's Tennis 
Friday's Results 
No.5· Missy Chapman (CM) def. Maureen St. Mary's 6, Illinois Chicago Cin:le 3 
O'Brien 6-4, 6-3. No.6-Theresa Busse (CM)def. Mo O'BrienSingles 

6-2, 5-7, 6-4. No.1 ·Patsy Coach (SMC) def. Marge Molek 
Doublll ~.H. I No. 2 • Judy Razinvas(ICC) def. Maureen 
No. 1 • Coash and Fitzgerald(SMC) def. Fitzgerald 6-3, 6·1. 
Serges and Crespo 6·3, 7·5. No. 3 • Karen Smith (SMC) def. Diane 
No. 2 • Smith and Maureen O'Brlen(SMC) Zalitoris 6-3, 6-4. 
def. Bagley and Walker 6-2, 6-7, 6-4. No. 4 -Carmel Maenza (SMC) def. Barb 
No.3· Terri Bracken and Jan Dvonch(SMC) Sherry 6-1, 6-3. 
del. Chapman and Busse 6-4, 6-0. No. 5 -Linda Sokolowski ·(ICC) def. Maureen O'Brien 4-6, 7-6, 6-4. No. 6 • Mo O'Brien (SMC) def. Debbie Bendewald 6-4, 6-2. 
Interhall 
Doubles 

Mo. 1 -Coash and Fitzgerald(SMC) def. 
FLAG FOOTBALL SCHEDULERazinvas and Malek 6-4, 6·3. 

[Field In Front of McCandless)

No.2 Maureen O'Brien and Smith (SMC) def. Sherry and Bendewald 6-2, 6-2. 
Oct. 2 Regina vs. Holy Cross No. 3 • Salltoris and Sokolowski (ICC) def. 
Oct. 3 McCandless vs. Holy Cross Terry Bracken and Mo O'Brien 0-6, _6-1, 6-4. 
Oct. 4 (Rain Date) Oct.8 LeMans vs. Regina

Saturday's Results Oct. 9 LeMans vs. Holy Cross Oct. '10 Regina vs. McCandlessSt. Mary's 6, Central Michigan 3 
Oct 11 (Rain Date)Singles 
Oct. 15 Playoff if necessary No.1-Patsy Coash(SMC) del. Kellie Serges 
Oct. 16 (Rain Date) 6-4. 6·2 ­
All games lt 5·45 p.m.

No.2-Maureen Fltzgerald(SMC) def. Robin Walker 6·1, 6·1 . No.3-Becky Crespo (CM) def. Cindy Bagley 
Yesterday's Game 6-2, 6-3. No. 4 • Carmel Maenza (SMC) del. Cindy 
McCandless 8, LeMans 6Bagley 6-2, 6-3. 





Notices 
Volunteers need at CAN Co Parent/ Child Center . 
1. 
Emergency Child Care Worker, 2V2 hrs, 1 day a week. 

2. 
Parent surrogate, 3-5 hrs. a week, 1 year's committment 

3. 
Welcaome Baby Program, 6-7 hrs. a month 

4. 
Speaker Bureau· 2 hrs. monthly meetings, 2 hrs. amonth for speeches Contact Volunteer Services -7308 


ND·SMC Off-Campus Students, Anyone interested In helping with the organiza­tion or design of the ND·SMC O·C Mardi Gras booth, please contact Jim Steedle at 277-1347 
Volunteers Needed: 
1. 
Woman needed to babysit Oct. 13·17. Required to cook, clean, and do laundry. Pay $25·$30 a day. 

2. 
Tutor 2adults in high school math, 1-2 nights a week. 

3. 
1·2 people to lead grade schoolers in Recreation Program. Mondays 3-5, Wednesdays 3-6 

4. 
Men or women to sing in choir for guitar mass and others mass, Sat. 5:30, Sundays 10:30 Tenors especially. 

5. 
Tutor Cambodian Family in English. Contact Volunteer Services -7308 


Question -What came first, the chicken or the egg?? Answer· The chicken at Popeyes! 1636 
N. Iron wood, S. Bend, Indiana, 277­0397. It's a great new Taste! 
RPM PRODUCTIONS announces the booking of the band for the first time ever in this area for your formals and special 
-occasions. Call Jim at 277-1891. 
Used Book shop. Open Wed , Sat., Sun. 9;7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Rd. Niles. 683-2888 
Liberal Protestant Church wants to invite You to join us for Church School 9:30 and worship 10:45. First Christian Church on the corner of Eddy and Jefferson 1 mile south of N.C. campus. Rides available:. call 289-2417 1 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday thru Friday. 

Lost&Found 
Found -a set of keys left by hitch hikers in Blue Ford. Call David Sherron at 232-7714 to claim. 
Found: '81 class ring in music building Wed. night. Call John 1695 
Lost: One Scrimshaw Pendant on leather thong. Design on ivory is of ared & blue grateful dead type skull. Great senti­mental value. Call Peter 232;0582. 
Found • pair of glasses brown frames; brown case call Steve 7733 days 
Lost -class ring (80') initials M.B.H. pinkie ring. Please call -was lost last 
• sprin,g. _7975. • . , 
1

...... ( ' . . . . 
' 

1y · • ·· 'Lb~ ~a ~ioer ~ltarn'with St'IJah)lll'netlal· 
3113 
1. So. California (47) 2. Alabama (14) 
3. Oklahoma 4. Texas (1) 
5. 
Nebraska 

6. 
Houston 

7. 
Washington 

8. 
Ohio State 

9. 
Florida State 

10. 
Notre Dame 

11. 
Michigan 

12. 
Purdue 

13. 
Arkansas 

14. 
No. Carolina State 

15. 
Missouri 

16. 
Michigan State 

17. 
Louisiana State 

18. 
North Carolina 

19. 
Tennessee 

20. 
Brigham Young 



Sl\IC Campus 
Exercise class 4:30-5:30p.m. Varsity Basketball Tryouts 6-7:3o p.m. 
~ Ju l.:,Jo,....J 
4-()-0 1,222 3-()-0 1,180 3-<Kl 1,080 2-o-0 1,053 3-<Kl 999 3-o-o 838 · 4-<Kl m 4-o-O 683 4-D -o 662 2·1..0 656 
3-1-D 654 3-1-0 643 3-0-0 619 4-0-0 388 3-1-D 342 3-1-0 290 2-1-0 266 3-<Kl 256 3-Q-0 174 3-D-0 122 

Classifieds 
Lost: Black calfskin wallet owner badly needs IDs Rewarcl; No ?'s asked. Call Chris at 3712 
Lost: Cincinnati Moeller H.S. Class Ring ('79) initials MPW lost at MSU game, Sect. 34, row 41. Mike 3471 
For Rent 
For Rent: Female roommate wanted to sublet campus view apt. Live with 3other girls. $100/ month, all util. included. Call Kathy, 277-2235 
No more worries about getting ripped-off, safe, furnished country house for 2-6 people, ten minutes travel 287-7018 or 288-0955 
For rent: female roommate needed at N D apts. Live with 3 other great girls. Call 234-7220. 
For Rent: Campus view apt. for rent w/3 male students. 100/month. all utilities included. Call Ken 1758 
Wanted 
Need rider' to Manchester College on Oct. 13. Call 41-5710. · 
-Need extra money? American Lung Association is looking for part time help in fund raising. Contact Julie at 287-2321. 
Desperate: need ride to Wash/MD./Va. area at fall break. Will pay$ for gas etc. Dan 8383 
Colonial Caterers at Century Center needs part time bartenders, busboys, cashiers, waiters, waitresses and kitchen personnel. Breakfast and Luncheon help needed most. Apply in kitchen across 
from entrance 4in rear ·or Century Center. 
Need ride for two to Northern NJ for October break. Steve 1432. 
Roommate needed· 2bedroom house 709 
S. 32nd St. s. B. $92.50 mon & 112 utilities. Call Andrea 289;8176 • 
Please help-I'm in desperate need of a ride to either Harrisburg, PA. or Laurel, MD for October break. Willing to share driving and expenses. If you are ,going that way please drop me off. Call Sherry 7915 
Need a ride to Denver, Colorado over October break. Willing to share ex· penses. If you have the room, please call 7915. Thanks. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh weekend of Friday, October 5. Will be happy to share driving and expenses. Please call Beth at 8098. 
Please Help us We're desperate! My friend has never seen "The Big Apple" and if we don't get a ride to Connecticut for Oct. break, 'Broadway Joan' will be heartbroken. We are willing to heiR with travel expenses etc. Please call (SMC) • Mary 5207 or Joan 4662 

For Sale 
1973 Ford LTD Green with White Top Good Condition, Takes Regular Gass $900.00 233-3358 
3United Y2 Price Coupons $35 each Tom 277-3845 
Fly ~Home to New York for Break! Stuctentsfrom N.Y., N.J.,'and Conn: Fly 1 way from South Bend to LaGuardia for only $49. Paul1553 
For Sale 2 USC GA's best offer Rob 8858 
Free Bar of Feelin Fresh Deodorant Soap 
witt $3.110 order from A'iu1; Call: 
233-6581 or 287-6920 
Tickets 
Wanted 6tickets each, Southern Ca.l. and Georgia Tech ..~, Call Steve Hamilton • (712) 732-2B4z days. (712) m-5229 nights 
Need 2 Georg. Tech GA tickets for Aunt Sara and Uncle Sal. Call Dave 3537 
Need one GA or student Georgia Tech ticket. Jan 8144. 
Need student tickets to Georgia Tech. Mary Ellen 277-4966 
$$$ -Will pay top dollar for GA and/or student tix to Georgia Tech. Call Greg at 1841 
Need 2 GA. 2 st-udent tickets -Georgia Tech Patti 7921 
I need 8 Tennessee Tickets Preferably togethec Call 277-1494 
Need many GA tix for Georgia Tech. Call Katy (SMC) 4776 
1 male student ticket needed for Georgia Tech game. 255-6716 
South Carolina Want 2 GA's 8831, Paul 
Have tickets ? Will pay $$$ 1 or 2 GA any home games. Call 7267. JackL . 
Wanted: 2 or more tickets, must be grouped together, for ariy N.D. home football games • Willing to buy at premium price. Call 287·3311. 
Need 2 tix to the U.S.C. game. Call collect in evening (303) 722·9921. '70 Alumnus 
Need. Southern Cal tickets. Will pay top dollar. Call Joe after 10. 233-6024 
Desperately need 2G.A. tix to USC game Will pay absolute top dollar. Call FRANK AT 3090 
Need 3 GA tickets to Georgia Tech. Call • 4391 
2 tickets to South Carolina
Wanted: game. Call collect. 1·802·775-4553 -------------:-,, Desperately need 8GA or student tlcktltS 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. Tha Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 
I will do anything for student and/or GA tix to MSU and/or USC • Please I Call Steve 8696 soon! 
Need G.A. tickets to Georgia Tech. Call. Joe 8694 
Need: 1student tik to USC and 2GA's to Navy or Clemson . Call .oon13B4 
Want aDate? Ihave 3 sisters who need 3 tickets to Georgia Tech and 1 to U.S.C. student or GA Joe • 1205 
Need GAtickets for Southern Cal Game. Will pay big bucks. Call Jane 283·8012 
SEX AND DRUGS are mentioned to get your attention. Need 2-4 USC GA tix. John 1177 
Will lose my Virginity if I can get 2 GA's for Georgia Tech. Call Rob 234-5821. 
Need any 1 USC ticket. Please Helpl' Greg 1826 
Moneyl Will pay for GA ticket to Southern Cal. Needed Desperately! Call Ceci 6620 
Wanted: 2 tickets to any game before November, 3434 or 8897 
Desperately need 8 Georgia Tech tix for my parents. Call Dawn -7730. Help! 
Help! Need 2 GA tix for Georgia Tech • Shiela 7924 ­
Need 1 Ga tix to Georgia Tech! Please Call Diane #7906 
Need 2-4 Student Georgia Tech tix. Please Call Diane #7906 
Need 2 student tix for Geo. Tech. Call Sue 4600 (SMC) 
$$Help! Desperately need G.A. tix for two c.s.c. nuns. Either South Carolina, Navy or Clemson. Call Ann 277-4976 
Wanted: 3 or 4 GA tickets to any home 
football game. Will pay good money!! .41·5195 
Wanted: Any number of GA USC tlx; Name yovr price. Cindy 8055 
Need one GA or Student tix to Georgia Tech. Please call Jack#3180 
I urgently and desperately (redundantly) need 4 ND'Georgia Tech G.A.s all together. You will make my family very happy. Call John at 1209 
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& 
Big Bucks!! 1need two GA tickets to any home game. Call Dave at 8782 now!! 
1need two tickets to the Tenn. game. Please call Bill at 8444 now. 
Need 8tix for So. Carolina. Call Mark or Mike, 289-6543 
Will pay $60 for two adjacent GA USC tickets. Call Mark 1478 
Desperately need 5GA tix to Tennessee! 
Cali John at 3656 Not coming back for Oct. 27 game at the end of break? Sell meyour ticket ! ! I need one G. A. and as many student tlx ·as you Gan spare. Will pay $$1 Call Megah 4153 or 4161 at SMC. 
Need several GA tickets for Clemson, Tennessee P.ames. Call1771. You name the price, I II ~1:1y if right. 
Personals 
Mary Alice Winn turns 19 today. Call this ravishing SEX GODDESS at 41·4101 and wish her ahappy birtllday. We love you Mare~ 
Happy ?OIIt Marilyn B. Peggy, Patsy, &Beth 
Attention: All Females, Especially Hawaiians -. Kindly call Joe tonight at 8192 (toll-free) and wish him a happy birthday. A good time is assured for all. 
J{)HN DAVENPORT IS HAVING PRDB~ LEMS FINDING HIS CHARACTER. CAN HE BE HELPED?! BON CHANCEl 
Trank Happy 21st a little late! Love 
•;tubtls 
Debbie, fJonna, Fred, Jeanie, I .love field hockey players and the dunes!! Let's do it again sometime!! Joe 
SJH, I think I finally saw my actions from your 
viewpoint.  I think I understand things  
now.  
c  

~ttention SMC freshman: Don't forget to vote Melanie Margiotta for your Fresh­man Council, October 3rd. 
What can you get for a dollar? A dollar will g1Jl you till! first tw,lvr. pages of THE HE:SBURGH PAf'HiS 
Purdue student football season ticket mistakenly sold for single game ticket at Purdue game to male N D student in red IZOD shirt. Please return season ticket. ANy info. please call 4-1-5170 
Cindy-When is a door not a door? When it's ajar. oykee doykee, Ryan 
Drew, Jim & Joe 
Hats off to another great Friday night. We may not have been rolling but we were sure rocking! 
Joe-Happy Birthday Buddy! Pat 
Monotheistic Doctrine of Reincarnation in the Torah, the Prophets and the Gospels. Write: The Truth of Islam, P.O. Bo,.; 4494, South Bend, Indiana 46624. 
Attention all Senior Enginiers CE, CHEG, AERO, MET, ME• EE Procte1 & Gamble at Senior Bar Tuesday, October 2, 10:00P.M. -1:00AM 
Today Is the beautiful, varsity tennis 

to Georgia Tech. Call Eric 1384' ', • , •• tix.and 2itloldellt.tlox. WiiUilllttQ Pll¥¥111.11' • • • • her e•liafllt~ i1Jtllday,.88Q31 Send ali -----------. price. Gail 4349 (SMC) Catny or Leslie . gifts tp 332 Lewis! 
... 
... 
. , ,Gpipg ~orne for O~tQ~C Qreak? Sell your. , .playEU"'.s ,\8th BirVJday! ,YM. Moil USC tlx to 2SMC lad1es. We need 2 GA Walsh's Birthday! Give he~lt to w1 



Tuesday, October 2, 1979 -page 12 
With comeback win 
Irish nine steals grid script 
by Bill Marquard Sports Wnter 
There are some oft-quoted lines used by sportswriters that go something like this. "A good team is one that fights back ... never gives up ... never says die ... doesn't crack under pressure .. '' 
Even baseball philosopher extraordinaire Yogi Berra echoed these sentiments when he remarked, "The game is never over until it's over." 
Well,pardon the redundancy and lack of originality, but the. Irish baseball team fought back, never gave up, never said die and certainly dido' t crack under pressure last weekend. 
Down 9-2 in the bottom of the fifth inning against a Valparaiso 
t 
' 
' 
team that they downed 3-1 the previous weekend, the Irish ' erupted for three runs in the bottom of that frame and six
,
'' more in the seventh to hand the 
I, Crusaders an 11-9 defeat in yet another of Notre Dame's copy­righted comebacks.
' Don't misunderstand. It
I wasn't quite the caliber of the· ' epic football comebacks that many an Irish fan has come to l know a.1d expect, and it cer­
' 
~ 
tainly wasn't as talked about among Notre Dame partisans. 
Yet it was another emotional
Sophomore Bryan Smith was the starting pitcher in Notre 

boost to an Irish baseball squad 
Dame's 11·9 comeback win over Valparaiso. [photo by Dave 

' that has jumped out to a 5-1
Rumbach] 

record, the best fall start in
! 
t 
Despite Indiana loss 
Irish soccer on the ball 
At some point during last Friday's soccer game, it became painfully obvious that Indiana had a better team than Notre Dame. I think it hit me about midway through the first half. 
At the same time, I realized that the Hoosiers were going to win--and they did, 4-0. But, unlike other Irish losses in other games of other sports, this one had its bright spots for incurable Notre Dame rah rahs (like myself.) Because on this da}', the Irish took one giant leap on the !'Occer field, proving there is, indeed, a market tor their product at Notre Dame. 
Over 1,000 people showed up to see them play :ast year's NCAA runners-up, and most of them went away feelirig it was worth going late to happy hour. It was the largest crowd to ever see a soccer game at Notre Dame, and the fan<> were every bit as vocal as any football or basketball cheering section. 
Those who attended saw a surprising first half of soccer which ended with the Hoosiers in f1 om only 1-0. No one was more surprised than the Indiana players themselves, who came to South Bend expecting another easy victory. (I guess winning does make people cocky.) After a parented Rich Hunter pep talk at halftime, Notre Dame applied the pressure and actually had a 
~ chance to tie the score early in the second half, but a goal by Mike Mai was disaHowed because rhe ball had touched his hand. The no-goal call took the wind out of the Irish sails and Indiana proceeded to pour in three more goals before game's end. Even without the red and white uniforms, I could tell that this was a typical Indiana team. 
• They adhered religiously to th~ P,hil?sophy espoused .by the "Happy Hooster htmself, Bobby Kmght-­
"If,ou can't beat 'em, beat 'em up!'' An the Bis Red soccer team procec;:ded to do just that. Wuh just 10 seconds gone 1n ~he first 
r period there was a shot on goal whtch was neatly' collected by Irish goal keeper, Brian Cullather. As Cullather stood up to clear the ball number 20 in red, Armando Bettencourt, rushed in and sent the Norre Dame goalie sprawling the the ground. Of course it wasn't intentional.. . · 
'.'That was a ~esigned play· to intimidate our 
------~.~.. ..~-.
.. .---~-.~~ 


Frank LaGrotta 
Sporls Writ.,. 

team," Coach Hunter said afterwards. "He 
(Bettencourt) came at our goalie and tackled 
him, which is illegal. And the way he landed, we 
were lucky Brian wasn't hurt." 
Notre Dame was lucky a few more players 
weren't hurt as Bettencourt's "tackle" set the 
tome for the remainder of the game. Both teams 
pushed, shoved and jockeyed for ro<;itions, and 
JUSt to say the game was physica would be an 
understatement. Before It was over, Cullather, 
(who was hit again in the second half) halfback 
Tim Nauman and a few other Notre Dame' 
players had to be helped from the field, 
prompting soccer manager, Doug Collodel, who 
often assists injured players to the bench, to 
point out ''It seemed like l was on the field more 
than the players.'' 

But no excuses--Indiana is a very talented· team. They're one of the "big boys" that the 1979 NCAA Soccer Guide says Notre Dame "Isn't quite ready for yet." (Which is one reason to wonder why they resort to the push-and-shove tactics they showed here on Friday?) The fact that Notre Dame did stay with t11em, allowing onlY. one goal in the first half, indicates that, whtle the Irish aren't one of the "Big boys" yet, they certainly are growing up fast. 
We can only speculate on how well they would do with some scholarship money to attract top prep players to Notre Dame. Indiana gives 15 full rides, while Loyola-Baltimore (who tied the Irish, 2-2, on September 23) hands out 12. If Notre Dame does not follow suit, the program will probably stagnate and never get much better than it is right now. 
I find it hard to believe that Notre Dame would ever be satisfied with being nothing more than a once-a-year pushover for a team like Indiana. 
Soccer Notes: The Irish will take on Goshen College tonight at 8 p.m. on Cartier Field. Admission is fifty cents for students and one dollar for adults. 
' ••• '. 1'. 
recent memory. 

But ~rish coach Tom Kelly looked more realistically at the game. "I was really pleased that the team had enough intestinal fortitude to fight back and win." 
''But my emotions were mixed in that in order to fight back as we did, we had to dig ourselves in a hole to start with. Naturally we're ,Pleased with the outcome, but It was how we got there that m~ttered. '' 
The visiting Crusaders jumped out to an early 2-0 lead in the top of the second, but Jim Montagano's two-run double in the bottom of the third knotted the score. 
But Irish pitching issued three free passes and surrendered five hits in the fifth inning to 
Netters boost record to 6-1 with win over Central Mich. 
by Mark Hannuksela team of Linda Hoyer and Mary Sports Wn"ter Legeay took on the team of Becky Crespo and Cindy Bag­
Being behind is never a good ley. Before the fans could getposition for any team to be in, settled in, the Irish duo had lost but a winning team has to be the first five games of the first a:)k: to come from behind to set. Surprisingly enough, neith­pull victory from the clutches of er was worried. defeat. Otherwise, it will not be "It always takes Linda and I a a winning team for long. while to really get going in a 
Since this be the case, the match," stated Legear.. a soph­Notre Dame women's tennis omore from Evansvtlle, Ind. team certainly can be labeled a "We just never gave in, and winner. Not only do the Irish even though we lost that first own a 6-1 record, they also have set, we pretty much felt the that ability to come from be­match was ours.'' hind, evidenced by their per­Hoyer had much the same formance against Central Mich­response. "Mary and I never igan last Friday. felt that we were out of the 
The doubles teams were the match. The fact that we were first to hit the courts on Friday, able to win a few games (they before a number of spectators eventually lost the set 6-3) at the Courtney Tennis Center. really gave us confidence for 
Court number one drew the the remainder of the match.'' most attention, as Notre 
[continued on page 1I]

D~me's number-one doubles 
Sports Briefs, _ _____,.
I Re_ynolds sails to victor_y 
Phil Reynolds, captain of the Notre Dame sailing team sailed to top position of the A division at Marquette last weekend with Margarita Cintra as crew. The team finished fourth overall in the ten-school competition aided by the efforts ofAngelo Capozzi and John Hankey in the B division. 
The team also sailed in the Sloop Championships in Detroit, Michigan. with Don Condit as skipper. The Irish have another bust schedule at the co-eds at Navy and also at Michigan. 
The team meets every Wednesday nightat 6:30 in room 204, 0'Shaugnessy Hall. Anyone interested in joining the group is invited to attend. 
Padres appoint Coleman as mana~er 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -The San Diego Padres surprized almost everyone Monday by naming their No.1 announcer, former New York Yankee infielder Jerry Coleman, as the National League baseball team's new manager. 
"If we're going to turn things around, we're willing to do something different," said Ballard Smith, the Padres' president. 
AP names Lauf!hlin Pla_yer qf W~ek 
CHICAGO (AP) -Linebacker Jim Laughli~ has been name.d Big Ten Player of the Week by the Assoe1ated Press for hts efforts in undefeated Ohio State's 17-13 victory over UCLA. Laughlin, a 6-2, 219-pound senior fro!D Lyndhurst, Ohio, led the defensive charge agains~ the Brums with 10 solo tack~es including two for losses totaltng 15 yards. It marked the thtrd time this season that Laughlin had been. nominated for the .award. He leads the Buckeyes in tackles this season with 39 
·and has five sacks for losses totaling 33 yards. 
L-~~------------------------~--------~ 
spot Valparaiso a 9-2 ed~<:· 

That was aU for the vtsuo offense, however, as freshman Steve Gallinaro blanked the Crusaders on one hit for the final three-and-one-third innings.. 
And while Steve handcuffed 
the offense, the Irish lineup 
gave the enemy defense all that 
tt could handle. 

Henry Valenzuela reached base on an error and Greg Rodems lashed his first of two doubles with one out in the fifth. 
Junior Pat Andrews cleared the bases with a triple, eventually scoring himself on Dan Szajko's sacrifice fly. 

But the Irish were still down 9-5 going into the aU-important 
[continued on page 11] 







