-~'l:"-"1,... t ' 
.-.... 

Militants in Iran deny plans to release hostages 
(AP) -Islamic student mili­tants declaring they take orders only from the Ayatollah Ruhal­lah Khomeini and the Iranian people, rejected a suggestion by Iranian officials yesterday that they free their women and black hostages at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran. 
It was the latest sign of a major split between Iranian authorities and hundredspf stu­dents who have been holding about 60 American and more than 30 non-American hostages since seizing the embassy Nov. 4. 
As the students reaffirmed their demand for extraditon. of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, 
U.S. and other diplomats hud­dled at the United Nation~ over the Iran crisis. 
President Carter, who has banned Iranian oil imports and frozen Iranian government as­sets in the United States, said in a speech yesterday to an AFL-CIO converntion in Wash­ington that he was holding Iranian authorites ''fully re­sponsible" for the safety of the hostages 
''They will be held account­
able," he declared in a speech 
interrupted repeatedly by loud 
applause and whistles. 
But despite diplomatic efforts and mounting U.S. economic pressure, one Western source m Tehran reached by telepone from. Bonn, West Germany, said foreign diplomats believe it looks like a long siege. 
U.S. officials say the shah, hospitalized in New York for cancer treatment, may be well enough to travel in two weeks. The Mexican government is expected to give him refuge again, and he also has been invited to Eyg{'t. 
But one !raman official, Am­bassador to Britain Ali Afooz, said this would not cool the U.S.-Iranian conflict. 
"Egypt or Mexico--they're 
U.S. puppets. It doesn't matter where he goes," he told a London news conference. 
Adding to the uncertainty was a report by Tehtan radio, monitored in Washington, that Khomeini has cancelled all ap­
[continued on page 17] 



Bulmer discusses Iranian situation 
byjim Soisson American sentiment among the Iranians now either. 
"I can't believe that the 
We shouldn't condemn a Iranians I knew would do nation for the actions of a few anything to hurt myself or my people," said Colonel Gail T. family," he said. "Iranians are Bulmer, measuring up the situ-veJ well aware ofother'srights
ation in Iran. r 
an have a genuine respect wr 
Bulmer, professor .of Aero-other people," he added. He space, served as advisor to the said there was very little crime Shah of Iran from July 1976 to in Tehran, a city of about four July 1978, leaving for Notre and one half million people. "I Dame about sixty months be-felt safer walking the streets fore the Shah was forced from than in most big cities in this power. Headvisedthe deposed country," he compared. leader about matters of mod­ernizing Iran'sAir Force. Then why the present situa­
tion? Bulmer sees a self-deter­
"When I first got there (Iran) mination in the Moslem people. the Shah was in complete • 'It is the same in other control," Bulmer related. Moslem countries as well," he "The demonstrations that took said. ''It's just that the focus is 
place in April 1978 were allow-on Iran." ed by the Shah, partly due to "Iranians associate the Shah pressure from human rights with the United States," he groups in the-U.S." further explained. The colonel 
He noted that even though the said that when they truned demonstrations were put down against the Shah, there was a by the local police, there was no tendency to also turn against shooting. the country backing the Shah. 

''The Shah was very much ''The students are sincere in concerned about his country,,_ their belief that the Shah was Bulmer said. ''His intent. was the cause of problems in the to make the country more hke a country," he said. "They think Western_ democra~y. He want-they are doing what's best for ed to br!?g them mto the 20th their country." He didn't century, he added. justify their actions though, Bulmer perceived demonstra-saying they were definitely 
tions by dissidents in 1978 as wrong. prote~ts against a lack of ~x-"We can't counterattack force p~esswn rathe_r than ~he begu~-with force though, • • Bulmer mng of an antt-Amencan senu-said when asked about his 

ment. solution to the situation of the 
''They were severely re-hostages. said he couldn't pressed for years," he said. see how Ptt's~dent Carter could '_'Now wit~ the freedom it ;~vas do anything other than he's hke a carmval atmosphere. doing now. "The present 
Bulmer! who holds_ a Master's policy is about as good as you degree m lnternauonal Rela-et,'' the colonel said. 
tions sees no eneral anti-· on campus to "people's emJ>­want to see a situation worked tions talking.'' He said that the out so that we can live as flag burning by the Iranians has civilized people." done alot to bring out similar The colonel is teaching an feelings throughout the country American Defense Policies as well as to "pull the country course this semester. He together." earned his bachelors degree 


Bulmer didn't want any rash from Rutgers and his masters show of emotion or force. "I degree from Ball State. 
Men assault two students 
off campuS 
by Sal Granata StaffReporter 
Two unidentified men assault­ed and robbed two· Notre Dame students as they were walking back to campus on Notre Dame Aven~~ ~~ Wednesday night. 
The students, one male and one female, were accosted by two black men, one carrying a revolver near the Logan School at 3 a.m. The men were about six one and five foot ten inches tall, wearing Army field jackets and hats. One of the victims reported that they were about twenty years old. . 
One of the students related their experience to the Ob­server: "We were walking back from Nickie's at about a quarter to three and were about a block from Angela near Logan School when we heard noise behind us. There were two black men standing 30 feet down the sidewalk.'' 
The two men ran up to the students and levelled a revolver at the male. "They roughed him up a little then told him to give them his money. They took his wallet, then they took my purse," the student said. Still pointing the weapon at the students, the robbers ordered them "to run . to campus." While the students were run­ning, the men fired a couple of shots in the air. 
The students, who wished to 
[continued an page 3] 
'l 


Students withdraw over marijuana 
Dan Letcher Senior StaffReporter 
Following a University investigation last week, three undergraduate students have withdrawn from Notre Dame for selling and possession of marijuana. 
Dean of Students James Roemer said that the due process , outlmed in DuLac was carefully followed during the inciden~. A student v.:ho_ was involved in the whole affair, however, 1s trate over the punishment handed out. 
Roemer state that two other students ''received 30 hours of work and were assigned a term paper for possession of marijuana.'' 
He said that the investigation started after a hall rector requested that two students, alleged­ly involved in theft and posession of marijuana, be removed from -the hall. 
Roemer summoned the two: to • his office, and subsequent questioning led to the implication 
of five other students, according to Roemer. After continual questioning the next day, three students were brought before the dean. 
These three received a fair hearing where Jim 0'Hare, ) udicial Coordinator, represented them, according to Roemer. . 
''The hearings found two students guilty of possession and one guilty of selling manjuana,'' Roemer stated. "The student found guilty of selling then withdrew from the University, and the Qnginal pair elected to withdraw rather than fa~e formal disciplinary procedures,'' Roemer 

One student involved charged that the punish­ments reflect upon the University. "It's beh~nd. the times, it's unjust and it has had a ternble effect upon the guys who left and their 
families," he said.  _  ·  
The student,  who  wished  to  remain  anony­ 
mous,  said,  "The  punishment  my  friends  

received is the most mhumane treatment they could have possibly have received." 
Roemer, however, said, "the University has consistently dismissed anyone found guilty of selling marijuana or narcotics of any kind." 
He also stated that the selling of marijuana is a much more serious offense than possession. A person selling marij_uana is passing_ a substance which could contam other narcotics, Roemer said. 
''It is difficult to know exactly what is being passed on and evidence supports the be; lief that m this community pot has been laced wtth other chemicals such as Angel dust," Roemer said. 
This is one reason that the university wants the students to know of the seriousness with which it regards these recent cases, Roemers emphasiz­ed. "Like other campuses, we have become too tolerant and as a result people may suffer serious effects in the future, he said. 
The student differs with the administration's view of tolerance. ''At any other university in . the country, this matter would not even arise. No other university would do this kind of damage to its students,'' he said. 
Roemer stated that there are still some leads in thi~ case to be pursued, and reiterated the 


r------~----~~-­
./ 
Friday, November 16, 1979 -page 2


CamP-US 
Ford hopes to avert hUge losses · 
Friday, November 16, 1979 
9 am--CONCERT --.orchestra with paul polivnick young people's concert, CRISPUS ATI1JCKS HIGH SCHOOL. 
11:15-1 pm--CAMBODIAN FAST SIGN-UP· --spons: students concerned for cambodia, DINING HALLS 
11:30-llom--SOCIAL'··iLAST GSU PRE. GAME SOCIAL• spons; / gsu, refreshments, WILSON COMMONS. 
11 :45-1pm--NAZZ--lafortune lunchtime concert by gene barbanera , spons: nd student union social comm., NAZZ. 
!2:15pm--TALK--by the hon. luther m. swygert, judge u.s. court of appeals 7th circuit cr. of appeals, spons: thomas & alberta wh1te center. 
3:30pm--LECTURE--"the semantics of indexicals (cont)" david kaplan, FACULTY LOUNGE MEM. LIB1RARY, spons: philosophy dept. 
4:30pm--REILLY LECTIIRE*--"nuclear quadrupole double resonance spectroscopy--a 'new' physical tedtnlque," prof. theadore I. brown, 11. of ill., urbana, l23NIEL'WLAND SCI. HAll• spons: chem. dept. 
5pm--CAMBODIA MASS* SACRED HEART 
7pm--FILM*--"an evening of japanese popular filr.~::" A/V THEATRE CCE • spons: japan club with dept. of modern & classical languages & japanese consulate, chicago, free and open to the public. 
7, 9:15, 11:30pm--FILM~-'bridge over the river kwai,"spons: gsu, ENGR. AUD. $1. 
7:30pm•-LECTURE--"a discussion of nuclear architecture: part ii,:' ken me candless architect, ARCH. AUD, spons: arch. dept. 
1 8prn--CONCERT--eagles, ACC, $12.5~. $10, $7.50. 
I , 

8pm-·STUDENT PLAYERS--" stop the world i want to get off!," WASH. HALL. / ' 
8pm--HOCKEY--nd vs. michigan state, ACC. 
8pm--CONCERT--air force show band, O'LAUGHLIN AUD. free of charge. 
Saturday, November 17, 1979 
1:30pm--FOOTBALL· Jld vs. clemson, HOME. 
7, 9:15, 11:30pm--FILM,--"champ", CARROLL HALL SMC 
spons: student act. 

8pm--CONCERT--pure prairie league, STEPAN CENTER 
tickets thru student union & river city records. · 
8pm--HOCKEY--nd vs.michigan state, ACC. 
Sunday, November 18, 1979 
lpm--MEETING--nd chess club, LAFORTUNE RATHSK. 
lpm--MEETING--ham radio club, morse code practice run 
spons: ham radio club, "THE SHACK".  '  
2pm--FILM--"archanek"  LIBRARY  AUD., spons: india  
assoc.  

2:30-4:30pm--ARTIST'S RECEPTION' donald g. vogl exhi­bition of his paintings, entitled "a sense of place," ART GALLERY' spons: dept. of an. 
6pm--MEETING--cila, LIBRARY AUD. 
7 & 10:30pm--FILM "bridge over the river kwai " ENGR. AUD* spons: gsu. $1 ' 
8pm--CONCERTO--nd chorale, SACRED HEART CHURCH spons:dept. of music, free of charge. 
8pm--PRESENTATION' nicaragua: revolution and recons­t~uction--a first hand account, b¥ sr.. betty ca!'Ilpbell, fr. peter hmde, spons: center for expenenuaf learnmg and cadena, LIBRARY LOUNGE 
Weather 

P~rtly sunn~ today. High in the mid to upper 40s. Fair to~ug~t. Low 111 the l<?w to mid 30s. Partly sunny tomorrow. H1gh m the low to m1d )Os. 
DETROIT (AP) -Ford Mo­tor Co., while predicting a loss ofmore than $1 billion on North Al?erican .car and truck oper­ations, sa1d yesterday that it would show an overall profit for the year anyway--with• help trom'a rigid cost-cutting plan~ Despite the gloo.my pro­nouncements on the U.S. and Canadian markets, Ford execu­tives said profits from overseas and elsewhere could give the No. 2 automaker its third-best 
r---The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Jim Rudd Asst. Night Editor: Stephen Swonk, Dave Thomas Copy Editor: Mike Lewis Layout Staff: Gina Ensalaco Karl Augenestein ' News Editor: Mike Lewis Editon'al Layout: Ann Gales, Greg Hedges • Features Layout: Kathy Con­nelly, SaltGranata Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typist: Tina Terlaak, Carol Connwalf, Carol Shuback Michelle Kelleher ' EMT: Micheline Santella Paul Selauko ' Proofreader: Dodee Carney, 
Thomas. Reuter ND bay Editor: Pasty Camp­bell SM~ D,zy Editor: Kathy Do­
mamco Ad Design: Chris Slatt Supplement Layout: Paul Mullaney Photographer: Rick Dohring 
Th1 Oburvtr [USPS 511 1211] Is publilhld Mondly through Fritlly II· cept during 1umand VICI1IIn pll'ilds. The Obstrver Is publlsllld by the stucllnts at Nltl1 Dlllll IIIII Saint Mary's Cllllgl. SublcriptiiMny Ill purdlnlcl fir S2ll pll' year [$11 pll' II!Mitlrl from The OllServer. 1'.0. bll 
a. Nm ba1111. lndllna 415116. s..t ciiSI pos1lgl paid, NltR Dlllll, In­diana 4155&. 
The Observer Is 1 Jlllllllllr fJI till Allodltld PriU. All ~ldlctlln rigllb .... l'lllfWII. 


The 



Observer 
is having a tailgater before the Clemson 
game at 

een Field 
All 
Observerites 

are invited 

year ever. And they repeated denials that Ford would follow 
Chrysler Corp.  into  a  money  
crunch.  
The loss figure was  disclosed  

in. a. Nov.l memorandum by Wtlham 0. Bourke, executive vice president in charge of North American automotive op­erations. Ford confirmed the contents of the memorandum after several articles appeared about it. 
Bourke said he was increas­ing an earlier North American loss estimate of $875 million. "Our full-year losses are now projected at $1,035 million. 
Further, the present 1980 bud­get outlook is for a continuation of losses of about this magni­tude. 
"The fourth quarter is not go­ing to be a good one, that's clear," said Vice president Al­lan D. Gilmour, Ford's con­troller. "But I don't want to ~ive the i~pression this is go­mg to conunue for 12 months." 
Gilmour dismissed com­parisons with Chrysler: "We have business operations in which Chrysler doesn't partici­
~------------------­
~~ Sunday M~sei--l :~II at 1 
1campus I 
:miniStry Sacred Heart Churchl 
I1  5:15p.m. Saturday  Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.  II  
1  9:15a.m. Sunday  Rev. John Fitzgerald, C.S.C.  I  
1  10:30 a.m. Sunday  Msg. John Egan  I  
~  12:15 p.m. Sunday  Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C.  ~  
1  7:15p.m. Vespers  Msg. John Egan  :  



~---------------------------..J 
pate; we have newer, more ef­ficient plants; we have a better mix of vehicle options; we've got a better dealer network, and we have new cars coming out that are being favorably re­ceived." 
According to auto sales re­ports issued Wednesday, vol­ume for all companies was down 25 percent in the first 10 days of November compared with the same period last year. October was down 20 percent. 
Ford was down 29 percent in the period and Chrysler was down 43 percent. For the year so far, Ford is down 16 percent Chrysler 17 percent and the fiv~ companies as a whole 10 per­cent. 
Ford, however, is the leading producer outside North Amer­Ica. Overseas, it makes money hand over fist, so a $1 billion loss on cars and trucks at home is less of a blow to Ford than it might be to Chrysler. 
Overseas operations and a change in Bnrish tax laws en­~bled Ford to report a $103 mil­lion profit for the quarter while Chrysler was reporting a $461 million loss. 

The Observer 
I 


The Notre Dame Chorale is busy prepan·ng for their annual Fall Church Concert, which wzll be held this Sunday Nov. 18 at 8:15 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. [Photo by Rick Dohnng]. 
Carter delivers harsh speech concerning Iranian crisis 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Pres­

ident Carter said yesterday the 
Iranian government is ''fully 
responsible" for the safety of 
about 60 Americans held hos­
tage in the U.S. Embassy in 
Tehran and "will be held 
accountable.'' 
Caner, in his harshest state­

ment about the actions of ·Iranian leaders in the 12-day­old crsis, said he found it "unthinkable that any respons­able government" would try to pressure another naion by us­
ing diplomats as barter. 
Addressing the convention of 

the AFL-CLO, the president 
said the seizure of the embassy 
and the Americans stationed 
there violated basic principles 
of internatio11al law. He vowed 
that the students ~pying the 
embassy will not sway Ameri­
can policy. 
''This is an act of terrorism 

totally outside the bounds of 
international law and diploma­
tic traditon," Carter said. 
''This crisis calls for firmness 
and restraint." 
But Carter also said the United 

States ''will not compromist: 
our fundamental principle ot 
justice, no matter . how grave 
the provocation." He added: 
"The United States of America 
will not yield to international 
terrorism or blackmail.'' 
The president said taking the 

hostages has resulted in "anger 
and outrage'' from Americans. 
However, he added, the United 
States will do nothing that 
endangers the safety of the 
hostages. 
He said the situation calls for 

patience, perserverence and 
"measured, deliberate action." 
Carter said the U.S. govern­
ment will continue to use its 
influence around the world to 
obtain the safe release of the 
hostages and will take no action 
''that could be used to justifiy 
violence or imprudent action 
by anyone." 
The studentswho attacked and 
overran the embassy Nov. 4 
have demanded that the United 
States return the deposed Shah 
Mohammad Reza Pahlavi to Iran for trial as a war criminal.. The shah is being treated for cancer in a New York Hospital and the U.S. government has flatly refused to bow to the Iranian demand. 
Carter's efforts to negotiate with the Iranian government have been stalled at every turn. His personal! emmisary, Ram­sey Clark, was not allowed into Iran and remained in Turkey for a week before being recalled on Wednesday. 
The Iranian government also has resisted the efforts of third countries to negotiate the re­lease of the hostages. 
In his strongest attack on the Iranian government, Carter also said: "An embassy in not a fortress. There are no embass­ies tbat can long withstand the attack of a mob if the mob has the backing of the host govern­ment itself.'' 
The president said it was "a clear tenet" of international affairs that a host government "is responsible for the safety and well-being of diplomtic representatives.'' 

Recruiter offers opportunities 
Peace Corps/VISTA recruiter Shedrick Sanders will have hundreds of job opportunities to offer seniors when he visits the Notre Dame placement office tomorrow. 
Peace Corps assignments be­ginning between now and next summer are available in the fields of primary and secondary ~ducation, accounting, market­tog, health, hom~ economics social work, math, sciences' agriculture, and vocational arts: 
Seniors interested in learning more about opportunities in the Peace Corps or VISTA should register now for interviews. 
Fripay, NovemDer 16, 1'979 -_page-3"' 
hnportant to relationship 



Leaders agree on SMC fee 
By Margie Brasszl SMC News Editor 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Student Body Presidents met yesterday, and reaffirmed the need for the $4 Student Union fee SMC students are required to pay to ND. 
ND-SBP Bill Roche and SMC­SGP Pat Trigiani also discussed bringing more SMC representa­tion to the ND Board of Com­missioners, who allocate the funds to NO student organiza­tions, and clarifying how the money is spent. 
Both leaders felt the $4 fee is essential to the continued co­operation and management of student activities. Trigiani re­jected the possibility of remov­ing the $4 fee. "This way, we maintain a relationship with Notre Dame which is very 
• • • Men 

-------------__ [continued from page 1] 
remain anonymous, reported 
the attack to Notre Dame 
security. Security reported the 
incident to the South Bend 
Police. 
A description of the attackers 
was provided to the police, and 
the students unsuccessfully 
searched through police photo­
files of suspects on Thursday. 
Incidents like this happen 
about once a week, a South 
Bend Police Detective told one 
of the students. He also said 
that they will probably increase 
as Christmas holidays draw 
near. 
One reason the detective no­
ted, according to the student, 
was that students make easy 
targets. They do not carry 
weapons and are not familiar 
with the neighborhoods, this 
means they cannot defend 
themselves and are unable to 
identify local robbers. 
N.D. Director of Security Glenn Terry instructed his force to keep in touch with local police on this matter. Since the case did not occur '->.n campus, it is not under his jurisdiction. 
Terry disagreed with the de­tective's prediction that rob­beries were on the rise. According to Terry, his depart­ment has not recorded an increase of crimes and that "the number of incidents ne­cessary to cause concern just aren't there.'' 
important," she said. 
Trigiani stressed the need i for SMC representation in allocat­ing the funds. "I thought it was uri,fair in the pa~t for Saint Mary's students to be paying the fee without knowing what It is for," she said. "What we would like is not voting repre­sentation, but speaking privi­
leges in an advisory capaci­

ty." 
"1 don't want to see a good relationship between Samt Mary's and Notre Dame de­stroyed," explained Trigiani, "but in this matter Saint Ma­ry's students have not been given the proper voice:·' 
Roche agreed that a SMC voice is needed in allocating the funds. "We fully intend to see the problem rectified," he stat­ed. One possible solution, Roche sugggested, may be to have a SMC representative sit on the Board of Commissioners when they .allocate funds. 
Roche said that the $4 fee, which totals about $7000, is added to the $17 fee ND students pay. "It is not specifi­cally earmarked, but placed in a general pool to be used for all activities for which the (ND) student fee is used," Roche said. · 
''This general fee is used, in large part, for the Student Unton," he continued. "It helps fund activities such as Academic Commission speak­ers and social Commission sponsered events such as con­certs, Midwest Blue Festival, Collegiate Jazz Festival an? 
Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Roche added that the fee also helps fund clubs and Student Government Activities, such as 
the  Social  Concerns  Films  
Series.  
'It is very important  to  note  

that any activity paid for by this student activity fee is open to Saint Mary's students," Roche said. "We also need to increase the Saint Mary's presence in the planning and management of activities.'' 
Roche pointed to SMC partici­pation and leadership in the An Tostal planning and manage­ment, and said "this can and should be extended to other activities.'' He also noted that the calender offices of the two institutions "must work more closely ro avoid overlapping.'' 
Roche noted that his state­ments in Wednesday's Obser­ver caused some concern on the SMC campus. ' 
''I have a great respect for Saint Mary's and its students. I also have a great respect for the work being done by. Pat Trigia­ni, the SMC Student Govern­ment and their activities pro­gramming board. There are, mdeed, many activities con­ducted at Saint Mary's that benefit Notre Dame students," he said yesterday. -­
''A couple of comments attri­buted to me in The Observer were taken out of context,'' Roche stated. ''These com­ments did 1not reflect my atti­tude, I regret and apologize for any problems they may have caused on either campus.'' 

Streamwlnner will be back with their tremendously exciting jazz-rock fusion that keep V.B.'s audiences attentive all night. This talented and creative bunch play their own compositions as well as those by Ponty, Vanelli, Hancock and Corea. This is easily one of the finest live performances you'll see at Vegetable Buddies. Excellent percussion work highlights their act. This is a tight, tight group. 
TH UR, FRI, & SaT! November 15,16,&17 
Sunshine Promotions & Monarch Entertainment Present 
. THE 
~------GRATEFUL 


DEAD 

Friday, December 7 • 8:00pmIndiana olis Convention Cer1ter 
Tickets are now on sale e -...-clusit•elv in Soutb 8e1zd at Rit•er Citv Records, 5U97U L·.s. 31 Sortl>-3 miles north of camfms . 
• 
-·--­

r
Friday, November 16, 1979 -page 4
The Observer 
Year ago Sunday


Youth is our Concern 
The Piarists are a Catholic Order of priests and brothers who 


Jonestow-n survivors rem.em.her
dedtcate their lives to educate 
the young. They work in schools, 
CCD programs and parishes. For 
more information, write: 
Vocation Director The Piarists 363 Valley Forge Road Devon, Pennsylvania 19333 

S.D.M. Today 3 Lowenbrau 
Open lOam Saturday 
Double 


Bloody $1 00 

Mary"s • 

tWild Turkey Day Monday) 

_1!!!!!!...,!!!1!!!11!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!1!'!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~
• A 



FIShSt~

Y'lucan


Swallow! 
All-~-can-eat.fisb 
all the time 
All-you-can-eat .u1.a.d bar 
All-yoa· """"·eat frog's legs on Mondays 
Open For Lunch -Noon Specials ­Platters, Sandwiches 
*Homemade Soups, Chowder, Clams, Shrimp, Lobster 


And your favorite cocktails 
52129 U.S. 31 No. 


277-0103 

South Bend 
FA~~~~~ ~:s~~'t~'!NT 






'RIVEi~CITY~ 
RECORDS 
notthern ln.dlana•a IGigeat r.cord and tape aelectlon 
.. 4X•· 
.and concert ticket headquatterl~t 

$1.00 off!' 
Any album or tape. Limir one per customer · thru Dec. l. 
18.000 Qlbuma and tQP•• In atock 
HD/SffiC atuct.nt ch«k• acc•pWd fot up to 
120.00 ov•t putcha" QmOUnt 
Op.n 10 to 10, 7 dQyt Q  wMk  
'  
i I  River City Recorda  
50970 U.S. 31 North  
3 mil•• north of CQmpua  

-. -. . . -2-77...242
-,----------------........ 
I 

~ ----------------------­
SAN FRANCISCO (AP).,-For  members, who witnessed the  
those who survived Jonestown,  shooting, spent three days in  
there is pain enough in memo­ the jungle before reaching  
ry. But for some, grief has  safety.  
grown with reports of efforts to  Dr. Hardat Sukhdeo, a Guya­ 
revive the Peoples Temple cult  nese-born psychiatrist who still  
that spelled doom for more than  counsels former church mem­ 
900 people in the jungles of  bers and about 40 Jonestown  
Guyana last Nov. 18.  survivors, including four wit­ 
Many friends and relatives of  nesses to the suicides, said his  
the Jonestown victims, strug­ clients "feel very uncomfort­ 
gling to remake their lives,  able in sodety. ' '  
refused to speak with reporters.  The survivors sense, Sukh­ 
They say the press forgot  deo said, that people consider  
them and their troubles after  them freak$.  
graphically recounting the fan­ "One girl registering for  
tastic events of Jonestown and  college was told '... if you were  
the bizarre dreams of its foun­ in Guyana, you'd (have to) be  
der, the Rev. Jim Jones.  crazy,' " Sukhdeo said.  
Those who did speak were  Despite such encounters,  
eager to warn others that the  "most have done very well,"  
germs of a new church, or  Suk~deo said in a phone inter­ 
efforts to resurrect the old, may  view from New Jersey School in  
be spreading.  Newark, N.]., where he is chief  
"They've called me up and  of psychiatry.  
said, 'It's 6 o'clock. Let's·  ''They have taken jobs like  
meditate,' " said one middle­ foot mes'sengers, the easiest  
aged woman. "They still  with which to jump into society.  
believe Jim Jones will be  The majority have not been  
reincarnated. I've told them,  able to get into high-pressure  
'Don't call me again.' "  jobs,'' Sukhdeo said, adding  
The former believer, who  that "almost all of them had to  
said her attorney advised herl not to give her name for publication, left Guyana before  go on welfare.'' ''There is some bitterness,1 but not so'much as other people  
Jones exhorted members of his  would have felr. Jim Jones  
flock, and forced some, to drink  prepared them for society's  
poisoned Fla-Vor-Aid.  rejection... It makes them won­ 
She was one of several who  der that Jones was right about  
said they or their friends got  some things, like society's un­ 
calls from former high-rankmg  caring."  
church officials.  Bur Lowell Streiker, director  
A man who said he had heard  ofa Berkeley, Calif., center that  
abour the calls described the  assists cult "defectors" tem­ 
pitch as follows: "'Those of us  pered Sukhdeo's criticism.  
who survived, survived for a  "They can't cope with the  
purpose. We owe it to God, we  reality of society because they  
owe it to the memory of Peoples  can't cope with the reality of  
Temple to keep alive the found­ themselves," Streikcr said.  
ing principles of Peoples Tem­ "They have boughr it (Jones'  
ple."  philosophy) that society is  
Archie lames, who was left to  racisr, sexisr, corrupt. Just as  
guide the 100-odd cult mem­ socie1 >. ~~jeers them: they reject  
bers who stayed in San Fran­ souet ,..  
cisco after the migraton to  A tcw people were able to  
Guyana, vehemently denied  talk without rancor or resent­ 
that he or any of his associates  ment.  
were trying to gather the rem­ ''All the time (I have) grief  
nants of Peoples Temple: "I  inside... l've been no good since  
don't want anything to do with  I heard,·' said Victoria Williams  
Jim Jones in any way."  softly after welcoming a visi-·  
lames said he was writing a  tor.  
book about the Temple's "posi­ The 76-year-old woman sat  
tive aspects'' in the two de­ silenlly as ·Birdie Marable; also  
cades since he met Jones in  an ex-member, gently placed a  
Indianapolis.  framed photograph of six hand­ 
Caution, even distrust, links  some young people, a daughter  
survivors in their search for  jlnd five grandchildren on a  
peace.  coffee table.  
·~·Nobody.'s been interested in  Former Ryan aide Jackie  
out ;problems throughout the  Speier, 29, had her arm and leg  
year~ We're not going to talk  ripped by bullets as the con­ 
now,·' said teen-age Brenda  gressman fell dead on the Port  
Parks at her Ukiah, Calif.,  Kaituma airstrip.  
home.  The past year "has not been  
The girl's mother, Patricia,  an easy road" for the lawyer.  
was· shot and killed along with  "I broke down at a 21-gun  
Rep. Leo Ryan, D-Calf., and  salute, I w~s shell-shocked at  
three newsmen on an airstrip as  car backfire and firecrackers,"  
she Hied to excape from Jones­ said Speier, who faces an  
tow~. Brenda and other family  operation next month for a  
I  

NATURAL FOODS RESTAURANT 
On Riverbend Plaza .Soda Foutain, Juice Bar 
Carry-Out Menu 1 South Bend, In. 46601 Full Service Dining1fhone 288-1911 
Student Special
,-------.,
1$100 OFF I
I any -dinner after 5 pm I 
**** 
I I 
L 
Offer good with Coupon and Student ID I






-------· 

Open: Mon. thru Thurs. 10 am-8 pm Fn. and Sat. 10 am -9 pm 
prevwusly undetected bullet in 
her arm. 
"In a few months, rd like to be able to go into a court room without people saying, 'That's Jackie Speier, she was shot... she ran for Congress. I just have to cope with that." 
Speier ran unsuccessfully for Ryan's San Mateo County seat in a special election last April. She has criticized the lack of a full-fledged Congressional in­quiry into how the State De­partment handled the Ryan visit to Jonestown. 
Two weeks ago, the man who did succeed Ryan, Republican Bill Royer, demanded House hearings into how the State and Justice departments handled the events in Guyana. The J~ Judiciary Committee has since asked the FBI and Justice Department for updates on their investigations. The Foreign Affairs Committee expects a similar rep<)rt from State. 
Speier remembers how she tape-recorded a message to her parents as she lay in the Guyanese jungle expecting death a year ago. 
She is still warning others of the dangers of cults. ''Am I just a votce in the forest-? I hope not. ..There is the making of another Jonestown.'' 
Majority 
of nation fears cults 
NEW YORK (AP) -Nearly four out of five Americans think some religious groups in this country are dangerous, accord­ing to an Associated Press NBC News polL 
Almost an equal number say the government should be al­lowed to investigate religious groups or cults ifcomplaints are made again:~t them, despite this country's traditional and consti­tutional separation of church and state. 
n• 
Poll results were based on telephone interviews with I ,600 adults across the country on Oct. 15-16. 
To the question, "Do you think the government should be able to investigate a religious group or cult if complaints have been made about the group or don't you think so?" The responses were 77 percent "Yes," 17 percent "No" and 6 
percent "Not sure."  
To  the  question,  "Do  you  
agree  or  dtsagree  with  the  
following statement:  Some of  

the religious groufs in this country pose a rea danger to their members and sometimes to others?" Seventy-nine per­cent agreed, 12 percent dis­agreed and 9 percent said they were not sure. 
As with every sample survey, the results of this poll can vary from the opinions of all those with telephones across the country because of the chance variations in the sample. 
For a poll with 1,600 inter­views, the results should vary no more than 3 percentage points either way through sam­ple error. That is, if one could talk to all adults in the country, there is only one chance out of 20 that results would vary from the findings of this poll by more than 3 percent. 



, The Observer 
Elkhart subpoenas Ford officials in Pinto case 
ELKHART• Ind. (AP) · Hen­ry Ford II and 29 other Ford Motor Co. officials have been subpoenaed to testify in the Pinto deaths case, Elkhart County prosecutor Michael Co­sentino announced yesterday. The automaker is facing trial in January on three counts of reckless homicide ih connection with the deaths of three young 
women who were · killed in August 1978 when their Pinto exploded in flames after being struck from behind. 
Dominic Carnovale, chief as­sistant prosecutor in Wayne County, Mich., said yesterday he is attempting to schedule a hearing for Nov. 28 in Wayne Circuit Court on the subpoenas. 
He noted that since the subpoenas were issued in Indi­ana, they must go through the Wayne County courts to get service of the Ford officials in Detroit. 
Carnovale said the auto­maker has indicated ifopposeda number of the subpoenas, and several other persons named have hired their own attorneys to fight the issue. 
When the Elkhart County grand jury convened last year, subpoenas were issued for Henry Ford II, 'then the com­pany's chairman of the board and chief executive officer, and Lee lacocca, then president of the company. However, Cosen­tino allowed the company to send subordinates in their place. 
Now, Cosentino has declined 
to say whether he will attempt 
to force Ford's personal appea­
rance and testimony at the trial. 
Cosentino has not issued a 
subpoena for lacocca, who re­
portedly was one of the chief 
promoters of the Ford Pinto. 
Cosentino said he doubted a 
subpoena would be issued for by 1982 under terms of theIacocca but he added that he peace treaty si~ned in March.
isn't ruling out the possibility. 
Egyptian Bng. Gen. Seif ellacocca was fired by Ford and Din Abu Snaf, in a brief speech,currently heads Chrysler Corp. 
pointed to the early withdrawal William T. Peacock Jr., pub­as proof ''we are movinglic information director for ahead'' and as evidence whichFord, said the names on the "disproves all the lies andsubpoenas apparently were hatred of the rejection front,"taken from documents between referring the Arab nations10 and 12 years old. Peacock which reject the Egyptian­ed that a number of the Israeli treaty. 
persons subpoenaed have since The Israelis withdrew earlyretired from the company. 
so Sadat could come to Mount Each of the subpoenas also Sinai to celebrate the second specifies certain records and anniversary of his Nov. 19,documents to be presented to 1977, trip to Jerusalem, a triprhe court. Cosentino has lost 
that set the peace process in three prior attempts to get motion. verification of reputed Ford Sadat, in exchange, agreed to records he has in his posses­an Israeli request to allow 

At Ford's request, the case was transferred to Pulaski Cir­cuit Court at Winamac, where the trial is set to begin Jan. 7. 
The indictments against Ford alleged that the fuel tank was negligently designed, causing the car to explode upon impact from behind. 
The victims' Pinto was among 1. 5 million Pinto sedans and Mercury Bobcats made between 1971 and 1976 that Ford recalled because of go­vernment tests showing the fuel tanks leaked large amounts of fuel in moderate-speed crashes. 
Although the recall had been announced, modifications had yet to be made to the Indiana 
Tkis [.-ogan Center v_o~unteer busily collectec! studen~ Clemson tickets for their annual game__,
Pinto, pending arrival of parts 
tnp zn the North Dtnzng Hall. [Photo by Rzck Dohnng]. . •\..;-,,
at dealers. 
Israel leaves ·Mt. Sinai 
MOUNT SINAI, Egypt (AP) ­Israel ended its 12-year occu­pation of this area yesterday and returned it to Egypt, whose soldiers hoisted the1r black­white-red flag near the moun­tain 1 where Moses is said to have received the Ten Com­mandments. 
In ceremonies at an airstrip within view of the 2,285-foot peak, Israeli soldiers pulled down the Star of David banner two months ahead of schedule at the special request of Egypti­an President Anwar Sadat. 
It was the fourth of a six­phase Israeli pullout that will leave Egypt with control of two-thirds of the desert penin­sula by Jan. 25. Egypt, which lost the lands in the 1967 Mideast War, is to regain them tour~sts, incl!-l~ing Israelis, to contmue to VISit the area. 
''Here for the first time daily there will be a meeting between the youth, Arabs and Jews, Egyptian and Israelis," Israeli Gen Dov Sion said in his remarks at the flag raising ceremony. 
Sadat plans to build a single house ofworship for Christians, Jews, and Moslems between the airport and the venerated mountain, and he is to lay a cornerstone in formal ceremo.. nies Monday. 
The more you love... the harder you fight. 
# 
~~ 
:IWICOl!fFIIIfll"l{
... 
THE· " 

CHAMP 
UI1JIOGOI~W.I'lll~· l{)tlf\'OIGH!Jlf(~T 
b;lf'f!.t'rtlfOR !If(""" Jlo[RMROfN·AIIIIIUIIHIU ·1M. bwD.rll r.RUSft <oc,_,..,!'I''MIIfRPIIMU... ·ILNoll~d\IGI'!trFIWOSMMOt l'ral..f'l b<rtli'YJ!IiMU • IJKKIPII Ill' fJWIC(l lllfiAIIU 
.............. ... ~ ...... -·-.. ---· .
~ 
~--:.-::.~~:"'~::: ... ::·:~; ...~::....... MGMo-.--­
Nov. 16&17 Ca11ol Hall smc Fti &Sat 7, 9:15, &10:30 Admission J1 sponsoted by SAPS 
. 
.., • .,J •• 





Blue Line Club decision applauded 
Fr. John Van Wolvlear's decision last week to allow alcohol • to be served again in the Blue Line Club's hospitality room is to be applauded. The original decision to prohtbit alcohol due to "several alcohol-related incidents last year" was not only unjustified, but also inconsistant with Untversity policy. The Observer is glad that the Administration has recognized its error and reversed a lamentable decision. 
To ciisallow drinking in the hospitality room is wholly inconsistant with University policy which allows drinking to occur before, during and after football games at keggers adjacent to the football stadium. Gate attendants even tssue re-entrance passes to insure that spectators who leave the game to quaff a few beers will be readmitted. 
If the University is truly intent on preventing drinking during athletic events, why does it allow these passes to be issued? We believe the explanation lies in the fact that many alumni, as well as students, leave the stadium to drink at half-time. The majority of the drinkers at the hospitality room, on the other hand, are students. We doubt that the Administration would have been as quick to stop the flow of alcohol in the Blue Line Club if hockey games were attended by the same percentage of contributing -and thus influential alumni who attend football games. 
The Administration's excuse of "alcohol-related" misbeha­vior as justification for the ori[inal decision is naive, as well as unfair to the vast majority of students who drink r~sponsibly. It is a sin:ple case of penalizing everyone fnr rhe s1ns of a small mmonty. As long as there 1s drinkinl!. there will inevitably be drunkeness ·_ and this, we admit, coulci ~etn~et fr~m the University's image which the Administra­tion IS so tntenr on protectmg. 
But the complete prohibition of alcohol in the Blue Line Club was an unfair solution to the problem ofdrunkenness. A more reflsonable alternative would have bee,, limiting the amount of beer each person could buy. 
The hospitality room of the Blue Line Club is an enjoyable, much-needed social alternative for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who too often are caught up in the monotonous study cycle and limited by reliance upon the insufficient social opportunities provided by the University and South Bend. The decision to cut off alcohol in the hosptality room was a sign oftheiadministration's'insensitivi­
' ty to the social needs of students. Last week's reversal of this unfair decision is a small sign of hope. 
IhJnesbury by Garry Trudeau 
t 
t 


-The Observer._ 
&.t;Q Notre Dtlme, IN 46556
f 
f 
The Obstm~er is an independent newspaper published by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily rdkct the polkies of the 
Friday, November 16, 1979 -page 6 
P. 0. Box Q 
Use patience, not 
'push' in Iran 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Chris Stewart's column "The Shame of Iran," (Nov. 13) I can only say that the families of the hostages held in the Iranian embassy do not want military action or retaliation as an effort to "rescue" their loved ones. I believe that the U.S. State Department is doing everything possible to secure the release of my uncle and his companions. Things are· slowly improving and your talk of military action defeats the purpose of diplomatic negotiation in the first place. 
If your comment that ''barbaric regimes only under­stand brute force" is true, then isn't it also true that only 
' barbarians resort to such force 
The Badger.·. 
to solve their problems? By using violence against the Iranians, we affirm violence as a legitimate means to solve a problem which puts us on the same level as the "barbarians" to whom you refer. Rather than scream for military action, let's pay more for non-Iranian oil without complatnt, pray for progress in negotiations, and use patience rather than ''push." 
Mary E. Ahern 
AL Core Course irrelevant 
Dear Editor: 
This letter concerns the Core Course requirement for Arts and Letters sophomores. Despite the good intentions behmd the course, we, along with many of our classmates, find this course frustrating, tediou~. and irrelevant for 
severa~ reasons. 
First\ the books for the I 
course generally are not written by respected authors. Second, · many o~ the books are notable only for their poor writing style. The authors repeat themselves and are often vague, ambiguous, and illqgical in 
their arguments. It seems to us 
that the authors themselves are 
not always sure of the points 
they are making or the 
questions they are asking. 
We have been told that thes~ 
books were specifically chosen 
because of their ability to 
generate class discussion --in 
our opinion, even comic pages 
could do that, and probably 
more effectively. 
. The ambiguity of the course 
1s best reflected in its tide: 
"Ideas, Values, and images." 
Will someone please tell us 
what this means? 
I 
Twelve Arts andLetters spphomores 
Reflections on Notre Datne 
S.]. Kotz, M. Hymie Heaney 
The Friday before the Navy 
game, as I stood in the LaFor­
tune men's room, a paunchy 
man in his fifties, dressed in a 
gold turtle-neck, navy-blue 
pants and a Notre Dame nylon 
pcket approached me. Rather 
intoxicated, the son of Notre 
Dame as~ ed me what time the 
pep rally )egan. 
''I don't know, •• I replied. 
''You don't know?'' he bellow­
ed. Then why in the hell do you 
go to school here?'' 
That question has been on my 
mind ever since. I did, after all, 
look out of place in my haunt 
that afternoon. Dressed in my 
Stetson hat, Texas Playboy 
sweater, and Frye boots, I felt 
like an alien among the alumni 
assembled in the La Fortune 
Student Center. 
I have never liked many. of our football weekend visitors, and I feel bad about it. They are the alumni and subway alumni who contribute money that keeps Notre Dame going. Without them, my tuition bill would probably be a couple thousand dollars higher, the school facili­ties would. be meager, and Notre Dame's national academ­ic reputation would certainly be non-existent. 
Still, I find most of the throng that descends upon Notre Dame each football weekend insuffer­able. With the possible excep­tion of a busy night at Corby's, I have never seen a bigger 
congregationof Cacholic hedon­ists in my life. Many are drunk, almost all of them are loud, and quite a few are downright arrogant. 
I find the subway alumni the least offensive. Although they 9id not attend the University, these mostly middle-aged men will travel almost any distance to see a Notre Dame game. Such loyalty is admirable, even if it manifests itself in pre-game 
I drunkenness. Wearing their green and gold beanies, they_ sip cheap whiskey outside the stadium, their rosy cheeks ag­low. On the Friday before the game, they can be seen mob­bing the bookstore, buying any moderately priced trinket with "Notre Dame" or "Fighting Irish" stamped on it. They gape in awe at the sight of the sun-dazzled golden dome, as they busily snap away with their instamatics. 
Another group of revelers grates on my nerves more than the subway alumni. They are the Notre Dame graduates who never quit being college stu­dents. Graduates, who as students complained about the rigid rules, the ratio of men to women, the miserable social life, and the lousy weather in South Bend, now return to recapture ''the good old days at DuLac.··· 
These former Domers come back to ND expecting to find the place the same way they left It--and it is. Unfortunately, their memories are subject to fits of nostalgia.. They recall a school full of parties, good friends and romances, while forgetting about parietals, lone­ly Friday nights and Sunday morning hangovers. (All of which are a real part of the Notre Dame experience.) 
The group I find most offen­sive however are the ''high rollers" --or those members of the ND community who have MADE. IT BIG. They buzz the campus in their blue and gold Leer jets, drive their Lincoln Continentals on the sidewalks, hang around the Morris Inn, noses up, gloating about their seats on the fifty yard line or the dinner they had with Father Hesburgh the night before. 
While I can take their ostenta­
tious displaf of wealth, I find their view o Notre Dame totally repugnant. Few of them take the time to get to know the school they love. Instead they flit around the campus taking 
V.I.P. tours which show how their hard earned dollars are being used. 
They see the largest collegiate library building in America, th future largest mid Weste University an museum, and the sprawling new engineering building. But do they see the "six man quads," the sump­tuos lunches at the dining hall or overcrowded classrooms? They reve I in the dream of Notre Dame being the greatest Catholic University in the world, without ever waking up to examine its shortcomings. 
Football is not to blame for this state ofaffairs. ND football· is a lot of fun, but it should ma1 be taken for more than it is--a game. It is perverse to 1~10 upon football and Notre Dame as synonymous like most of oilY' weekend football visitors dd~fr To them Notre Dame is af· football team with a University on the side, rather than a University with a good football team. If Notre Dame is to reach its goal and become a great university, its alumni and friends must stop worrying more about gettin~ bowl bids than about improvtng the cali­ber of a Notre Dame education. 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor ... .... : .. Diane Wilson the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor ..............Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor .........M. Onufrak their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor .... .. Mike Lewis able to all members of the community, News Editor ... .................Mark Rust an~ .the free expression of varying News Editor .... .............Mike Shields opmaons on campus, through letters, is SMC Exec11tive Editor .....Ellen Buddr. encouraged. SMC News Editor........Margie Brassal 
Sports Editor ..................Mark Perry Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Photo Editor ..............Doug Christian 
Business Manager ........Steve Odland Production Manager .... John McGrath Advertising Manager .........Bob Rudy Controller..................Kevin Manion Circ11/ation Manager......~g Hedges 
The Observer -Editorials Friday, November T6, 1979 --page 7 
CAMBODIA: The AuscbUJitz of Asia 
Christopher A. Stewart ·-~­
assistance to his starving peo-Has God been exfelled from 
''If God dtd not exist, it would Pot, the ethnic Cambodians Phnom-Penh, seeking work and pie. He has already rebuffed human affairs, unti the daX of 
face extinction in the same a new life. Before the war, · d 1 W'll h
be ne~essary to invent him. '' 
efforts to form a land bridge JU gment. 1 t ere ever e a 
manner as.: the whale, who()p-Cambodia was chiefly an agri-from Thailand into the heart of day of judgment?
--Voltaire 
ing crane or any other en-cultural land; by the end of Cambodia. Have we chosen genocide over
''IfGod really existed, it would 
dangered species might. The 1975, its charred and scorched The eruption of the Cambo-grace, fratricide over fraterniry, 
be necessary to abolish him. '' horror is that these .~re peonle, terrai"n was hardly useful for h 1 h 1· ~ 
r dian catastrophe in the late 20th o ocausts over o messr
--Michael Bakunin human beings like us. anything·, much less farming. p · 1 h 1 •
century is an omen for the West ut stmp y, ave we ost our
At the moment, 2.25 million Pol Pot's regime lasted from 1 1
and the East, rich and poor, power to ove.
Cambodians hover on the brink 1975-79. It employed torture, D 1
educated and ignorant, chic and o we even care anymore.
A professor at Notre Dame of death, the result of incessant mass terror and wholesale mur-Wh · · · k · C b d'
crude, elitist and exploited,· for at ts at sta e m am o ta
once cracked: ''The world is an warfare, disease and starva-der to transform Cambodia into · 1 h f fA · 
the spiritually intuittve and the ts not mere y t e uture o sta,
insane asylum run by the tion. It seems these peaceful a Marxist utopia. Pot's policies spiritually bankiupt, for the or the Third World, but the inmates." Cambodia is proof of people are in a classic Catch-22: we~e influenced by ideologue politically astute and the J?Oli-future of humankind as a race the veracity of his words. if they escape the nightmare of · Khteu Samphan, who wanted to ticallv naive. Cambodia ts a ·on earth, as a species of life in Madmen giving orders. Mad-genocide, nature relentlessly purge all vestiges of Western tocsin to the spiritual void that ·the universe. If the Cambodi­
men being believed. Madmen stalks them via illness and imperialism and decadence d. · d
humanity is hurtling toward ans te, as a natton an as a
ruling countries. Sane men malnutrition. from the new state. This 1 · ·11 b d f
with ever-increasing velocity. peop e, tt wt e a trage y o 
following orders. Sane men The U.S. is not without blame misanthropic maniac abolished Twentieth century governments unparalle~ed magn_itude. Why? "doing their job." Sane men for the horrible state of affairs all forms of civilizations: have perfected bureaucratic Because It proves mcontestably killing other sane men, for a in Cambodia, nor is it solely money, families, schools, postal barbarism through any number_ that we cannot Jearn from our leader, cause, ideology. responsible. Despit~; Cambodi-service, religion, telephones, of doctrines, among them fas-past, and ~re therefore doomed 
Insanity, like Cambodia, is no a's declared neutrality during and freedom of speech. Nearly · 1 1
ctsm communism consumer-to repeat tt, on y on a arger,
laughing matter. the Vietnam War, it was terri-all doctors, teachers, educators, ' · ' h 'bl 1
ism, militarism, dialectical rna-more repre enst e sea e.. 
Cambodia is a land without torially violated by both the intellectuals., and those suspec-terialism and capitalism. Inevi-The future has arnved, law and without God. Four Vietcong and the U.S. These ted of having ties with Lon tably, these "theories of man" people. It's upon. us now, ¥ears after it fell to the Commu-incursions wreaked political ha-Nol's regime were massacred blaspheme, mutilate and de-whether you realize _1t or n<?t. rllsts, it is almost a nation voc and destroyed substantial outright. stroy the most rudimentary You may c_hoos~ to tg~ore It. without people. quantities of farmland in east-The toppling of the Pol Pot features of a human being: the But t~e ume 1s raptdly ap­'·When I think of Cambodia, ern Cambodia. government by the Vietnamese spirit, will, mind, and body. proachmg w~en that luxury will 'and the misery of her people, I Cambodia's popular ex-chief last January 8 is the chief The results? Auschwitz. no longer extst. want to cry, scream, rant and of state, Prince Norodom Si-reason for the present food European and now Asian. ·.No one in Cambodia-imagtned, rave. I want to quit school, sell hanouk, was their leader crisis. Severe disruptions in Any serious offense against 1969, that 1979 would ever
10 
my possessions and do s.ome-thoughout the late sixties. He rice plantings were caused by another human being, be it in happ~n .. thing for those people. I'll do was overthrown in a military the skirmishes between the two B d d 
r c b d. the name of godless ideology or ut 1t t . 
· the one thing wr the am o 1-coup by Lon No! in 1970. factions. Analysts estimate faceless corporate profit, ts an It i~ happening. And it will ans that I do best: write. Yet, During Nol's five-year reign, that no more than 10 percent of offense to.all. We live in an age conttnue to happen._ Else­even as I write, I want to cry. the staggering toll from the arable land was planted, the of Gulags and gas chambers; in where. l!nless we dectde to a~t. For what is happenin~ in Cam-escalating was in Cambodia result of which is 7,000 Cambo-an age of potential nuclear Immedtately. In Cambodta, bodia transcends wor s. was 600,000 dead and injured dians starving to death every annihilation; of two devastating there are no tomor~ows. 
This tiny country dominates victims. day. world wars and two atomically As g?es Cambodta, so goes the conscience of humanity. A primary reason for the The present leader, Heng bombed cities. And now, a new humamty. Beleaguered Cambodia has lost destruction was the~ intermin-Samrin, is a Juppet of the name is added to the macabre The author strongly urges all 
[fifty percent of its population in able American !bombings, Vietnamese an U.S.S.R. His records of wanton, mindless studen~s, alumni, and.friends of the last four years, from eight which purportedly were greater overriding concern is diplo-savagery against the human tht; unzverszty to be generouJ 
' million to four million. Re-than the total tonnage of bombs marie recognition for his fledg-person: Cambodia thzs weekend. Checks can be named Democratic Kampuchea dropped on all ofEurope during ling regime. In exchange, he 1 wonder outloud: has human-made out to Students Concern­_b~y_t_h_e~g_m_o_c_i_d_a_I_re~g~i_m_e_o_f_P_o_I_~~~~I_I._R_e_f_u~g~e_e_s~l_m_u_r_e_d_i_n_to__m~~~h_t_c_o_n_s_id_e_r_i_n_re_r_n_a_ci_o_n_a_I_~~~adB~u~n'sd~rum? ·dforGm~~­
Cambodian Response at Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
"r'b /es • • ~u Lov nd S• n /e ad hoc committee designed to period will be a special Mass at prayer and discussion concern­
i.I. J an gtvtno' e, a a 'IX-.rac meet this call on the level of the Sacred Heart Church celebra-tng the situation facing Cambo­
How would you celebrate tutions --will not be enough, University. ted by University President dia. Through an open letter Thanksgiving thts year is you and so the churches of the Among the proposals planned Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, who yesterday, St. Mary's President knew that some members of United States have pledged to by the SCC are collection times is also chairman of the U.S. Dr. John Duggan encouraged 

our family --now living in try to raise an additional $100 outside the dining halls, which Relief Effort to Cambodia. the St. Mary's community to nother country --were facing million in voluntar:_v contn.bu-will take place at lunch and Hesburgh will speak on "the respond with Christian genero­eath from disease and starva-tions from people like you to fill dinner today, as well as tomor-time of need'' and the Christian siry to the urgent needs of the 
ion? the gap. row during lunch. Connected response to the Cambodian Cambodian penple 
Clearly, you would do what-The Students Concerned for with this will be the collection of situation. Hesburgh recently Lou J<,•,Jschneldt•r ver was necessary to get them Cambodia is holding a fund names for a compus-wide fast returned from W ashmgton here • orne help, at least to meet their drive, running until Thanks-to take place on Monday, he met with Rosalynn Carter, Workshop Tontght ost pressing needs, before giving. All donated monies will november 19 during lunch. and other members of the relief • · / £ "b itting down with the rest of be sent to Catholic Relief Students can sign up for the effor~. . . Memona t rary 
your family for the traditional Services. The CRS is adminis-fast Thursday at dinner and Dun~g the. Response penod, There will be a workshop on feast. tering aid to refugee camps for Friday at lunch in the dining collectiOns wtll be taken 10 each Cambodia tonite from 6-7:30 at But, take a moment to think destitute Cambodians who halls. The funds released by dorm to be_ presented at ~he the Memorial Lounge. It will be 
thousands, indeed tens of cross the border into Thailand. students choosing to fast will be M~ss_ on Fnday. A~so _dunng a followup to the Mass at thousands, of members of the Alloverhead costs are absorbed donated to the SCC fund. thts tt~e, each orgamzatt~n and Sacred ·Heatt Church for all human family are today. facing by the members of Students The SCC will also sponsor a ~orm ts asked to c?,nstder a those interested in obtaining a death due to disease and star-Concerned for Cambodia. concession stand before the corporate response to th_e more indepth understanding of vation , and they are utterly Among eve_nts planned are a Notre Dame-Clemson game. pro~lem and to mak.e a contr~-the present situation in Cambo­helpless... lunch fast _ November The stand will be selling bread bu~ton to the fund from orgam-dia. 
Three years ago almost five 19, direct solicitation outside of slices at the cost of $1.00. The . zauon resources. . The workshop will feature million people lived in dining halls and the Clemson hope again is to cause an Thu~ th~ ~esponse conststs of three speakers and a multime­Cambodia, and since then fully game, and a concession stand increased awareness of the both mdtvtdual responses and dia presentation. Mr. Andrew half of them have died, and Saturday in front of the urgent needs of the starving corporate responses to be ac-Nickel a South Bend attornev those who remain are perishing Memorial Library. . people in Cambodia. There will cumulated an~. offered _at the will ;peak about the Jocai at the rate of 200,000 a month, This is your chance! What be volunteers collecting money Mass. , The Cambo~ta Re--perspective on the placement of in what is one of the most will be your response? The at the gates of the stadium spons~ hopes to ratse the Cambodian families in the Mi­appalling tragedies in all of price of a six-pack, or a football before tomorrow's game. It c<;msctousness o_f the commu-chiana area. Penm· van Esterik, _. human history. ' ticket, or a night on the town? should be noted that this is the mty, and all<?~ Its !llembers to a professor of anthropology at 
As is so often the case, the No one will ever know what second time in Notre Dame's respond_ by g;tvmg ttme to learn Notre Dame. will discuss p.f<incipal victims are the elderly you decide to do ... no o_ne history that such a fund drive of the Situation and ~trend th_e "Cambodia: Past and Pre­and the children, who are too except the One -who satd, has been approved. ma~s, as well as mak10g contn-sent." Thirdly, Mr. Keat Sieu, we:ak to fend for themselves. "Whatsoever you do unto the Other plans in the making by buttons ~o the program. a native Cambodian and recent Before the eyes of the world, a least of these, my brethren, you the SCC include a noon-time The act~ons ofthe SCC and the arrival to America, will hold an whole nation, an entire people, do unto me." J h G~~. concert of support for the Cambodta Response are sup-open forum_ whereby he will is perishing. In the face of such 0 n 1 tg<m, fasters on Monday in LaFortune ported by Student Governme~t relate some of his experiences a spectacle of suffering and Professor ofLaw Ballroom from 11:00 to 12:30. an~ many other student orgam-while in Cambodia. Mr. Sieu death, can anyone simply turn • The SCC also hope~ ~o sup~le-zattons around the campus. All will field any questions that the away and enjoy the holiday SCC Outltnes m_ent r~e ~und ratstng dn:ve are ~rgently r~q~ested to take audience may have. season? Can you? __ ..1 A • . . wtth a v~ewtr~g of a TV spe~tal part 10 the activities. Finally there will be a slide 

At the urging of the leader-weekenu cttmttesOr:t the SituatiOn In Cambodta. John Pinter series "Refugees: To Be One .. ship. ot th~ major Am<;rican The Students Concerned ~or Fmally, the SCC plans t~ have -s-,:1-KC--P-____...:_____-.J To Help One .. A Matter of reltgtous fatths and charttable Cambodia has announced a ltst f~culty me~bers explam the 1U' rayer anu Life." This is an excellent organizations, President Carter of activities of awareness and st~uauon _to mterest~d stude!lts Re.Rect,;Ons presentation dealin& with 
the 
h~s . asked Cong~e~s for a $69 contribution to take place in the th_ts evenmg: More mformatton 1•1 .. enormous problem of refugees mtlhon appropnatton to buy days remaining before Thanks-wdl be avadable later on all . . throughout Southeast Asia. It a!ld transport food and medt-giving. The activities are hoped these ev_e!lts. Dunng ,Wednesd~y dmner ~t will include information about ct~e and other n~cessary sup-to instill in studen~s t~e sense ,,In addm_on to these ,plans1 a St. Mary s, the enure ca~etena . the dilemma in Cambodia, and phes to the dtsplaced a!ld of urgency that extsts 10 C~m-Cambodta Response penod paused for a moment of sde~ce also shed light on the plight of 
esperate people of Cambodta. bodia today--urgency whtch has been .declare~ for the 
and prayer for _the Cambodtan the boat people. But even that amount --calls for the immediate re-24-hour penod start~ng yester-people. Last mght, numerous This mini-seminar is free of oupled with the efforts of other sponse of the world. Students day_ at 5:00 and t;nding at 5:~0 grouf!s met t~roughout t~e St..charge. Everyone is strongly auons and international insti-Concerned for Cambodia is an tomght. The chmax of thts Mary s dorm:s for a penod of ur ed to attend. Chris Stewart 
.. 
... ... .. .. 
Features 
Friday, November 16, 1919-page 8 


LETTERS TOA LONELY GOD 
Dial-A-Phone Morality 
Friday evening, at six o'clock, a phone call came from a young man, an anonymous stranger, who was deciding whether he should consum­mate a sexual intimacy with a young woman he loved. 
''What reasons can you give me,'' he said, "to persuade me we should not have sexual relations?'' He did not have time to drop by for a talk. He had to have supper, take a shower. pick up his date, and get to the hockey game. He was rev1ewing the arguments against pre-marital inti­:nacv, because he had to make a decision; that very evening, he had promised to tell the young woman if he would consummate rhe affair. It would be hi" first time, his sexual in.iriation. Because he loved the girl. and she loved him, he wanted to know what reasons I could give him why he shouldn't do it. 
He was decent enough to ask, and I appreciated his thoughtfulness, though I don't think he realized how helpless I felt. Here was a twenty year old, doubting the wisdom of his moral up-bringing, wondering whe­ther the traditional morality had grown archaic; in the midst of extreme uncenainry. he felt he musr make a decision: he was in love, desire !ltirred within him, and the evening invited him to experience a woman's graciousness. And I, in a phone call, was asked to tell him the reasons he would regret his decision if he decided to make love. · 
Common sense told me t•> decline the discussion. Prudence told me to say that a phone call wouldn't serrle the maner. Bur I couldn't leave it at that; I couldn't have him believing that as a priest, I was inarticulate. So 
I tried, God help me, I tried to tell 
him the truth that would help him to a 
Christian decisrion, and I ended by 
offending him. I did nor want to 
offend htm; I did not want to appear 
to be making ugly judgments about 
his affair or the young woman he 
reverenced; but with my back to the 
wall, I used words that angered him, 
and he ended hanging up on me. 
Then I was angry a1 myself for trying, for failing, fc · not having refused to talk. I was angry because he humiliated me by hanging up, as though my words were cheap shots, and my thoughts were degrading because I couldn't realize how decent he was being. She only wanted to give him everything char was good, he sa~d. and I was making her appear promiSCUOUS. 
I haven't the slightest idea who the student was, or whether he consent­ed, on Friday evening, to joining the great tradition of couples who have made love outside of marriage, or whether he made other phone calls to different _priests to help him evaluate the Chnstian prohibitions. I am writing these paragraphs to tell him, if he reads them, that I care about what happened. · 
All the world is in love with lovers. When I sec lovers walking togetlwr hand in hand across rhc campus, I feel reverent and protective toward them, as though they were united in a holiness that preceded redemption. In the beginnmg, when everything was innocence, love was God's gift to a man and a woman. After all the weary ages of time and tide, the gift is still given ~nd the sight of lovers walking makes the earth seem to be mysteries. I belteve in creeds that speak of God's love and redemptive death and the Holy Spirit enlivening the tiredness of God's people. I 
forever April.  
My ..-views,  of  course,  are  not  
realistic,  because  I  am  an  odd  
creature  who  puts  his  faith  in  

believe in sacraments that tell me that Christ is a guest at the wedding feast; that He prepares a table for me in the presence of my enemies, that He anoints my head with oil, and walks with me through the valley of the shadow of death. I believe in Scriptures that teach of covenants existing between heaven and eanh. and that all of God's love for man, beginning with ancient promises made to creatures in the first moment they cringed with guilt. until the latest celebrations of the rituals of grace that declare the forgiveness of sins--that all of God's cherishing and courtship of souls is explicitly sym­bolized in rhc marriage bond that exists between a man and a woman who make an eternal commitment of their lives and love for each other. 
When a young man wants . a dial-a-phone morality, a rule-of­thumb ethics for a Friday night that he can reflect upon between his shower and the end of the hockey g~m~: how can I convincingly tell htm: Love your young lady as rlw Lord has loved the Church"? And if he has made love to her, and thev have felt the earth move henearh them--the earrhquah· bt"ing ex­perienced not as a reproach from an mdignant God, but from the mutual convulsions of their emotions--how can I persuade them of a spiritual 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
dimension to their sexuality v.-herebv ideally they are the mmisters o( the mystery of God's love? 
I can never tell a couple, "You will regret not waiting." I am nor a prophet about behavior that will lead them to the blues. Bur there is a code a Christian requires himself to live by, when he loves a woman as when he forgives an enemy. He can jusr as easily do something else nor pretend­ing to be Chrisuan moralnv, but while he is doing something eise, he cannot say:"! am following rhe mind of the Church. I am dishonoring my father and mother; I am hearing false ~itness against my neighbor; but th1s, also, is following the calling of Christ." 
Young man. on your wa\· to a Fridav night date, your answers art" to b{· found in your own cons(·ienn·. I believe that sexual nmsummar ions should be protected by the commil­ment of marriage; this is tht· fai1 h of the Church, as I understand it. As a priest, I know no other answ(·r I can gi~e you. Even humanly SJwaking. as1de from faith, I think it is a wise 
answer. 
I'm sorry I disappointed vou. l"vt· been praying for you amf for the young lady. I care a great deal what happens to borh of you. I hopt· vou under~tand about my caring. hut more Importantly, I hope you care about yourself. There are no ca-.v answers; if there are. I haven '1 learned them; and rhey would sri II be roo imporrant to tell them 111 vou 111 a 
phone call. · I hope you enjoved rhe hockn game. 
What's All This, Then? 
f 
t 
l 
l ~ 
CINEMA--ON CAMPUS 
The Champ on Friday and Saturday, November 16 and 17 at 7:00, 9:15, and 11:30 p.m. Carroll Hall (SMC). Jon Voight stars in thi~ sentimental story of a fighter ana his young boy. Wi1h Ricky Schroeder. Acl1anak, on Sunday, November 18 at 2:00p.m. Library Auditorium. The Notre Dame Indta Association pre. sents the film Achanak on campus. Dodeska Den on Monday, November 19 at 7:30. Washington Hall. This 
Japanese film takes a mosaic-like look at slum life; the first color effort 

by-director Akira. 
CINl:MA--OFF CAMPUS. 
Sleeping Beauty at 7:10 and 9:20. Forum Cinema I. Walt Disney's magnificently done animated classic about the tale of a young maiden's charmed life. 
Fiddler on the Roof at 7:00, 9:45. Forum Cinema II. The lovable rapscallion Tevye is with us again in rhe delightful filin of old Russ1a. 
.. .and justice For All at 7:20 and 
10:00. Forum Cinema III. AI Pacino stars in this comedyI drama about a criminal lawyer's efforts to fight the 
-system. 
In Search ofa Histone jesus (times unavailable). Town and Country I. A film about precisely what the tide suggests. 
Starti.,g Over at 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, and 9:45. Town and Country II. Bun Reynolds stars in this film about a newly divorced man and the· adjustments he is forced to make in his life. With Candice Bergen as his liberated "ex", and Jill Clayburgh as the nfW woman in his life. 
Apocalypse Now at 6:30 and 9:10. River Park Theater. Francis Ford Coppola's self styled masterpiece t~<~:t _dea_ls with a man caught betWeen ctvtl!zauon and savagery. Starring ~arion Brando, Marrin Sheen, and w1rh Shawn Leyden. 
Running at 1:30, 3:30, ?:30, 7:30, and 
9:30. Scottsdale Theater. A man finally decides to do something he 
Gerard Curtin 
desires rather than be repressed by others' desires, so he enters a marathon. Starring Michael Douglas and Susan Ansbach. 
10 at 2:00, 4:45, 7:30, and 9:45. 
University Park I. An adult romantic 
comedy about an affair berween a 
Hollywood composer and a beautiful 
young star. Starring Dudley Moore, Julie Andrews, and Bo Derek. 
The Onion Field at 1:45, 4:25, 7:05, 
and 9:30. University Park II. The 
true story of rwo Los Angeles 
policemen who are kidnapped, one of whom is killed by the abductors. Starring John Savage and James 
Woods. 
The Fish That Saved Pittsburgh at 
2:00, 4:00, 6:00, 8:00, and 10:00. University Park III. A "comedy" about an astrologer who uses her gift to send a basketball ream on a winning streak ... influenced by the
stars, ?f cou_rse., Starring Stockard._______________
_. 
Channmg, Flip Wtlson, and jonathan' TELEVISION 
Winters. 
PERFORMANCE--ON CAMPUS 
Concert, Friday, November 16 at 
8:00. 
The popular rock group, the Eagles, performs at the ACC. Concert: Friday, November, 16 at 

8:00. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium {SMC). 


The Air Force Show Band performs. Concert: ' Saturday, November 17 at 
8:00. Stepan Center. The Pure Prairie League brings its music to the Notre. Dame campus. Conc~rt: Sunday, November 18 at 
8:00 p.m. The Notre Dame Chorale performs at Sacred Heart Church. 
Saturday,_Novemb~r 17 ar9:00 p.m. The Indtana Umversity Opera Theater performs Carl1sle Ford's pa~able of good and evil, Susannah. Thts rwo act musical drama will be simulcast over WSND/FM at 88.9 mHz. 
AT VEGETABLE BUDDIES: 
"Streamw,tlner" on Friday and ~aturday, November 16 and 17. This ~and, composed of memberlf of the Jndiana University School of Music plays its own jazz/rock blend ·of music at Vegetable Buddies. 
.------------------­
The Observer Musicviews 


, 
r 
1 
l 
!I
' ­
The South does it again 'EVE' bites it 
·Mick Mancuso 

For a while it looked like Southern it wasn't, considering that the band Tim Sullivan Rock was going to take over (if you came from Jacksonville, home of the talk to someone from Jacksonville it First Allman Brothers Jam in '69 and Alan Parsons, with cohort Eric through am·ultitude of vocal styles,­did). Fueled by bands like The breeding ground for numerous Woolfson, has created another bril­the "'-::.ngs are dull and listless, likeAllman Brothers, Marshall Tucker, Southern giants. That Hatchet made liantly engineered concep_!: -a\bum music played in doctors' waitingCharlie Daniels and Lynyrd Skynyrd, it in Jacksonville says something in 
Southern1.ock was becoming a major it's own. Now, with Flirtin' with that will_ J:><?t~ 'fUi.C-Eve, the Alan rooms. One finds no punch or drive, force in music. The down home Disaster, Hatchet is sure to continue Rarsrons Project newest album, is no melodic subtlety, just mushy rock-n-rolling-keep you movin' beat on their path to being one of the Top me-thamcially superb and deftly re­harmony, which leaves the listener was catching on all over the country. Southern Bands around. corded with the most sophisticated relaxed and thoroughly bored. ­
mixing techniques available, but the Embodied in thts sleepy musicalUnfortunately, due to a peach truck · 'he album is straight forward and ' substance of the music and resulting format is a weak, if not chauvinistic,and improper aircraft maintainance, basic in every way. Nothing heavy 'concept is:slippery, if at all present. concept. Eve expresses man's viewthe takeover was thwarted for some nothing very intense, just good of womanhood, but only through atime. But within the last year rockin'. The songs are the same Parsons, who engineered Pink male's limited viewpoint, torn be­Southern Rock has been climbing Southern themes we've heard before, Floyd's stereophonic wet dream Dark tween the animal desires for sex andback to where it might have been but Hatchet's talent makes them Stde of the Moon, is certainly the the need for love.
years ago. Tucker, Daniels, and the e~jor.a~e. _".\:'is'ie"yMar.", "J~:~kin' most accomplished technical master In the end, Ez'e paints women as littlereformed Allman Brothers Band (the Cay , and ··Let thi> Good T1mes in the record industry, pioneering more than beautiful scoundrels with aDicky Betts Band would be a more Roll" have all been heard before. computerized mixing and digital weakness for gentle affection. Someappropriate name) along with H.ot They're new songs but yet they're recording. Each APP album 1s a people never grow up.
l'londtans The Outlaws, 38 Special that same drinking, hell raising and masterwork, devoid of production Not all APP albums have been asand Molly Hatchet are making their foot stompin' that has become errors in a clean, crisp, listenable dull and stupid as Eve. I, Robotmoves to the top of national charts. common. But with Hatchet's three style. Those who hate sloppy expressed man's plight against aMolly Hatchet, one of the newest prong guitar attack, definately their overdubs, poor arrangements, exces­mechanized with
and fastest risin~ bands on the strong point, you've got to love it just sive bass, and weak response will world songs as 
sophisticated as they were .eujo.yable. 
Southern circuit, IS probably doing the same. Especi:l.lly tasty on the admire Parsons engineering prow­Last year's Pyramzd did the samemore for the resur.gance than. any album is a cover of Bobby Womack's ess. 
thing on a more cosmic scale. Eveother band. While the other bands "It's all Over Now." They give the Al_l this grandiose effort-and in­basically falls through because ofmostly attract long time southern classic a fla·~or all their own, some­credtble talent is wasted however ·woolfson' s poor writing. Perhaps hefans, Hatchet is picking up new fans thing most· bands foul up when they on music lacking rhythmic hooks o; has run our of ideas. If this is thethose that might have never been int~ attempt it. When you get down to the melodic catches. Though greatly .case, then Parsons had best findtheir type ofmusic before. While a lot real meat of the album, it's "Boos-ie instrumentalized-and presented someone new.
of Hatchet's success is claimed to be No More" and "Flirtin' wtth due to t~e fact that their lead singer Disaster'' that are the true essence of sounds ltke a ·Ronnie Van Zant done Molly Hatchet's "let it loose and this should not take anything away burn them frets" school of rock. from the band. They're filling a void "Boogie no More" with it's "Free­left by Skynyrd, a band whose abrupt bird''esque slow start that builds into end came at the he-:1ght of it's a real *#$% kicker is especially good. populan y. On their second album, Although not as much so as fellow Flirtin' With. IJ/,::.aster, Molly Hatchet Floridians The Outlaws, Molly proves that a good clone is as good as Hatchet s-till seems to hold it back a 
the original. bit on the vinyl when compared to 
Enough of the clone aspect though, their live show. In concert this band because Molly Hatchet is a damn puts out enough energy to light up good band in it's own right. Flirtin' the Golden Dome for the next 50 with Disaster is every bit as good as · years. Molly Hatchet is well on their their first album, Molly Hatchet. The way to the big halls and the platinum first album was a killer and it really disks. surprised me that they would come out with such a polished album so ''Album courtesey ofRiver City soon after the first. In a way, though, · Records'' 

The'Duke' Reigns AtV. B's 
Tom jackman 
My introduction to South Be-nd's Vegetable Buddies Saturday night was a stage, Duke had outdone Springsteen's "Spirit in the Night" bit, and as he great one, and the reason was the entertainment attraction of the evening, left the stage, the entire audience was dancing on the tables and the noise Duke Tumatoe and the All-Srar Frogs. Don't let the name fool you into level was tremendous. th!nk!ng .they're just another gimmi.ck local group--this four man band from ,,.The third set was .. no letdown, but it ne':'er reached•.th~ ~cstari~ heights of Illrnors npped through three steamtng hour-long sets that had the capacity Red Peppet Hot. The band opened wtth a funky versiOn of ') ohnny B. 
V.B. crowd dancing on the tables and screaming for more. Goode," a refreshingly different rendition after heanng every garage band in If you had to classifv Duke and the Frogs into one specific genre, it would the world bang it out in 4-4 rime with Berry's same old signature have to be the blues. but Sarurday they also showed their versatility by progressions. Several more originals, including ''Tie You Up,'' had the crowd dipping into the wells of rhythm and blues and rock 'n' roll. The bearded dancing once more, with Duke providing some absolutely fiery blues bridges Duke IS the band's lead vocalist and guitarist, and looks like everybody's to highlight the set. The group left the stage to a thunderous crescenao, respectable Uncle Fred off-stage, but on-stage the' transformation occurs which Duke maintained by contmuing to play from the dressing room. The almost instantane-ously. and h<· lives up to his billing as "the Duke of band returned to play the Blues stan dart ''Kansas City,'' and it was a perfect Madness." Rolling his eyes at 1he crowd with a convincing combination of conclusion. Band manager Bill Stein said the group definitely would be back lechery and insanity, Duke limits his orher physical antics so as to focus to Vegetable Buddies, probably near the end of December, when most of us attention on his playing--ind('ed. he whips through some of the hottest blues won't be here. "We hear things are pretty hot down there," he added 
licks you 'II see anywhere. ?erfectly. He was right--red pepper hot. 
The first set was mostly material from their new second album, as yet 
unreleased. The band used the first hour to indoctrinate the newcomers and 
refresh the memories of the many returnees, who greeted the band with 
repeated cries of "Frogs" and "Duuuuke" at the outset. Giving a slow taste 
?f what w~s ro follow._] ar:nes Mill's Hammond organ worked beautifully to fiH 
rn harmontes, and melodtes as well when Duke rook off on one of his extended 
jams. Bassist LV. Hammond and drummer Robin Steele formed a solid yet 
unobtrusive rhythm base for Duke and Mill to weave their magic across. 
Gradually, the stage was hearing up. 
The second set relied more on Duke's originals from the first album, and it 
gave the band a chance to display its talents. Mill switched back and forth 
between the organ and the electric piano, on which his blues runs were simply 
masterful. Robin Steele also showed that he could easily deviate from his 
rhythm patterrs wrth some fine solos, and Duke added yet another dimension 
with his voice, an expressive instrument he. uses with an air of seeming 
nonchalance. · 
The highlight of the night was the last song of this set, the one the crowd had 
been yelling for "Red Pepper Hot:" By this rime, a few members of the 
audience were alr:>adv standing on the tables and chairs, and midway through 
the song, Duke strajJped a miner's light to his forehead and decided to take a 
stroll through the crowd with hts wireless guitar. 
Using th"= light to see his way through and also to flash people in the eyes, Duke climbed from table to table, whtpping the crowd into a roaring frenzy. As he worked thf· audience, Duke kept on playing, giving the cheering spectator~ a close·t•p view as his left hand practically threw off sparks gliding rapidly up and d,·wn roe guitar neck. By the time he had returned to the 


~-~---~
0----­
Friday, November 16, 1979 -page-10
The Observer 


.,...... ____ 
., . 
1. • 
spirits super~arket 

200 n main/ elkhart ·--254 dixieway north/ roseland 
............................~·················~··························· 
grand opening 
)lol• ~ h lt.1.hd J.A.L 
1621 south bend ave., south bend 
(behind the linebacker inn) 

...
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• .... 
SMIRNOFF. 
7 VODKA 
quart
'"" 
quart
quart 
~ 80° quart 
'"" 
c:IIJ:mii! 
'"" 
'"" 
..... 
.....
549 
549
1,1
~pi 549 
V'..____..J. 

RED, WHITE & BLUE
• 
-
OLYMPIA
PABST
PABST 
BLUE RIBBON 
24112-0Z. 
24-12 OZ. CANS
~ CANS 
I r -{-i~ RI~~~N 
~ 
t 
.) 
·I
24:2-0Z. 539 499 599 
•j' 
t 
~ 

\ 

Notre Dame coach Dan Devine wzll lead his 6-3 Irish aginst Clemson tomorrow afternoon, hopeful ofgetting back on the winning track. 
Must game for 
by Michael Ortman think we thought we could win~'' Sports Wn'ter Ford, a Tiger assistant coach at time. "When we found John D. Rockefeller, Sr. once said, winning the game, 17-7, people said 
''You take care of the pennies and the themselves, 'Hey, we're not ""'"'n,,.a.. dollars will take care of themselves.'' to be beating Notre Dame.' That 
our downfall.''
Notre Dame football coach, Dan Devine has been echoing a similar Yet this yea:r, Ford insists things theme for the past few weeks. going to be different. "This year we' 
His lament went something like this. taking the field knowing that we "We'll just play football and let the play with anybody and win.'' bowl games take care of themselves.'' The Ti~er's bowl hopes are still Unfortunately for the Irish, Tennessee much alive. A win over Notre may have taken -care of them last would make them a prime caiJUIUalJC Saturdav. for a return trip to the Gator Bowl, Now with all major bowl hope gone bowl they won last year, 17-15 but minor bowl possibilities still Woody Hayes' Ohio State lurking in the wings, Notre Dame is Clemson's 7-2 mark thus far faced with yet another nationally-rank­trememdous fan following should ed opponent in a must win game if the the Tigers a game in December. Irish hope to have the season extend Clemson's offense is very •n-nnPnr. into December. ed. In fact, the Tigers have wracked 
The Clemson Tigers are visiting almost three times as many yards South Bend for the first time, and as the ground as they have through far as they are concerned, this is their air. Senior fullback Mal'Vin Sims bowl game. "The Notre Dame game is the rustling attack statistically with without a doubt, the biggest bowl yards on 132 carries, but ~arne that Clemson has ever played tailback Lester Brown, who m,'' said Tiger rookie coach Danny three games due to injury, has Ford. up 428 yards on just 98 carries and 
If Ford's claim sounds familiar, it's the fifth leading ground gainer no coincidence. Johnny Majors said Tiger history. something similar before last week's Devine has the utmost respect for 
game, and George Welsh before that, 
Clemson offense. "I think you haveand Jim Carlen from South Carolina, 
give Danny Ford a tremendous cuuvu 4~· and ... 
of credit for the offense he has had The fact is that these upstart teams 
put together, considering he lost the Irish face week after week, have 
people the caliber of quarterback "Beat Notre Dame" as of their
one Fuller and receiver Jerry Butler,"biggest goals for the season. The fact 
said. "They play with a great dealthat nine of the eleven teams on the 
poise. and really seem to be · 1979 schedule have been, at one time 
tmproving every time out, and or another, in the top-20, doesn't help 
what a coach likes to see.'' 
matters either. 
The Irish defense has beenClemson is no exception to the rule. 
susceptible to the run in recentThe 14th ranked Tigers are ready to 
and will have to shut down a ............_'f" avenge Notre Dame's 21-17 come­
and potent running game which
from-behind win in 1977. "The last time we played Notre Dame, I don't [continued on page 1 
Gibbons makes preserice known: • .quietly 
by Craig Chval Sports Wn'ter 
IfNotre Dame's football team were to play a perfect season, nobody would ever hear of Tom Gibbons. Despite a team-leading three interceptions, the 
Irish  free  safety  plays  in  virtual  
anonymity--until  something  goes  
wrong.  

Last Saturday, for instance, Notre Dame's 3-4 defense decided to play matador defense against Tennessee, leaving Gibbons all alone to challenge the Vol's bruising running backs. 
The result--a bushel full of tackles for the junior from Alexandria, Va., and a lot of "Great game, but what happen­rd to the rest of the defense?'' 
Or four weeks ago, when the Irish hosted powerful Southern Cal, and Gibbons was on the sidelines with a severe charley horse. 
The result--311 yards passing for USC quarterback Paul McDonald, and a 42-23 Trojan victory. 
As Gibbons points out, though, it would have taken more than the United States Marines to stop McDonald and the Trojan receivers, who held the Irish secondary hostage all afternoon. 
"Everybody made a big thing about it, but me being able to play wouldn't have made any difference,'' insists Gibbons. ''McDonald was hot--nobody could have stopped him." 
While Gibbons won't get much of an argument on that count, he does tend to downplay his own ability. 
''I'm too small and too sfow, " he jokes. ''The only thing I have going for me is that I'm smart. That way1 if I fi~ure everything out right away, I can sull get there too late.'' 
Gibbons is no dummy, that's for sure. He carries a 3.2 grade-point average in aerospace engineering, which is hard enough to spell, let alone study. 
The two-year starter is stumped when asked to name the best game he's 
played,  but  answers  quickly  when  
asked about  his  least-memor able  
game.  

"South Carolina--I was out there, but that was about it,'' he says sheepishly. 
But Gibbons neglects to add that· the South Carolina game was his first after missing two weeks with the charley horse, or that he suffered a concussion in the first half but remained in the game. 
Gibbons earned his first starting berth last year when cornerback Tom Flynn broke his toe, and it was a baptism in fire--against Purdu~ and Mark Herrmann. Notre Dame har­rassed Herrmann into a pair of costly interceptions and won the game 10-6. 
This season, Gibbons made the switch back to free safety, where he spent his freshman season as a reserve. 
''The hardest part about playing free safety is going against the play-action pass," Gibbons says. "That's when you get fooled, and believe me, I know the feeling." 
Although Gibbons may project a light attitude about his own play, he sounds a warning about Saturday's game. 
"You've got to remember that you 
just got your butts kicked,'' he says in 
reference to Notre Dame's 40-18 loss 
to Tennessee last week. "But you've 
got to remember it•as a lesson, and not 
dwell on it. 
"If we play like we did last week, we'll get killed." · 
Which would be unfortunate for the team, but maybe a few more reople would finally take notice o Tom Gibbons. 

The Irish Extra Friday, November 16, 1979 -page 12 
Seniors reflect on last home game 

by Paul Stauder David Waymer, like Ferguson a 
senior, was one gladiator in green and 
Vagas Ferguson sat on his bed this gold who was felled for part of the past Wednesday night after his next­season by a knee injury. The unforru­to-last practice on Notre Dame's nate injury probably enabled Purdue Cartier Field had concluded. He to beat Notre Dame for the first time looked exhausted. His muscular frame this season, as Waymer's absence in showed the results of a season filled' the secondary during the second half with brutal contact from opposing of that September contest in West linebackers who were constantly key-· Lafayette was exploited by Mark in~ on him. 
Herrmann, the Boilermaker's quarter­
' Man, I've been playing hurt in back. every gam~ since Southern Cal," the Waymer fou~ht back gallantly, how­senior tailback moaned. "We haven't ever, and was m the starting defensive had a breather' all season. Everybody backfield against Southern Cal in is tough beca1,1se they're coming. to October. The injury left him a step play against Notre Dame. It feels kind slower, but it didn't anpear to affect of like doss after a bone." his play even though ~otre Dame lost 
Vag~s· stmilellptly describes what ~e that one too. and has teammiltes have suffered this It would be hard to find fault inseason---the most difficult schedule of Waymer and Ferguson if both decided opposition 'in ··the history of Notre to throw in the towel on 1979. After all, Dame football. ''Maybe Air Force they each played a vital role in thewasn't that tou'gh, but even they gave capruring of the 1977 national cham­us game for awhile," said Ferguson. 
P.ionship, and both have enjoyedNotre· Dame followers ought to tem­allustrious careers at Notre Dame. 
per any opinions of this 1979 team with ..Why should. either oLthem expendthe fact that this fbung, inexperienced more energy to help a team goingand injury-riddled squad had to fact nowhere?
the toughest schedule in the land this Ferguson has no rewards to show for season. While bowl bids will be his season of yeoman work, save for aextended aft.er tomorrow's games, it is plethora of contusions and turf burnsunlikely that the Irish will be extended up and down his arms and legs. Whata bid to a major one, especially after could he possibly hope to get fromlast week's bitter loss to Tennessee. 
another maximum effort against Clem­Ferguson feels content to sit back and son tomorrow in his last game in thewatch on New Year's Day, and one Notre Dame Stadium? 
must be a bit daffed to believe that he hasn't earned a day off, along with his ''I'm playing for pride now," came teammates. The team was a victim of the answer from the Richmond, the schedule, and of the injury Indiana native who holds almost all of bugaboo. · Notre Dame's career and season 

1"'···· 


Dave Waymer 
rushing records. "I want to win these last two pretty bad." The look in his eyes when he said that could convince all the Doubting Thomases this side of Knoxville that he was dead serious. Both Ferguson and Waymer take football very. seriously, but their scopes do not terminate on the sidelines. 
Graduating seniors, particularly those with the talents of Waymer and Ferguson, eye the NFL draft. Not to say that these two young men will not consider pro football. They will, but it is not the most important time on their minds at the end of their college careers. 
Waymer is more concerned with establishing a career in the business world. "I've been interviewing with a few companies already, and I'd like to have a job landed before I even consider pro ball. But, if there was a team in Alaska, I guess I'd go up there and play if that's who drafted me." 
Ferguson, who was raised by his ~randparents after his mother's death, ts concerned about his family first and formost. "My family means the most to me right now. I'm looking out for them.'' He is less definite about his furure at the present time, but figures to make numerous contacts this win­ter. "I have my resume ready, and I'm looking forward to the banquets this winter to make some business con­tacts. It's scary, knowing that I'll be out of here sopn." 
On pro ball, Vagas admitted, "It's there, and sure, it's the best route to get .settled early on and established befqre moving on to something a little more permanent, but I'm not thinking of it. nght now. " 
I.oOldng back on their car:ecrs, both name4 the national championship of 
19.77 as one of i:heir biggest thrills. "I guess kicking T~xas anq Southern Cal that year were my biggest thrills in my four years here," said Waymer, "along with the long touchdown pass I caught against Georgia Tech that year." 
When asked about the most memor­able people they have been in contact with since their freshman years at Notre Dame, both named teammates. "Ross Browner did things that I had never seen done before on a football field," mused Waymer, "and he was so good that he could have picked his position. He could have had (Ken) MacAfee'5 job if he wanted it." 
Ferguson reiterated Waymer's awe of Browner, and mentioned running mate Jerome Heavens as well as Luther Bradley as two more memor­able individuals encountered in four years at Notre Dame. 
For the effort these two have put out for Notre Dame football this season, showing patience with young and inexpenenced teammates, playing hurt, and performing in the face of adversity all year long, and for many great moments over the four years they have spent with the Notre Dame community, Notre Dame says a deep, "Thanks" to Vagas Ferguson and Dave Waymer, along with all their senior teammates. 
' ' Must game
' 
[continued from page 11) 
averaged almost 250 yards per game. 
"We tried a number of different fronts 
against Tennessee," said Devine, 
"but we just couldn't seem to stop 
them.'' 
Many Irish/artisans are starting to 
ask, "Woul the real Notre Dame 
defense please stand up?'' Devine is 
starting to wonder himself. The unit 
answered a shutout of Navy by giving 
up 40 points against Tennessee. "Our 
toughest battle defensively has been 
coming up with consistency, simply 
because injuries have forced us to use 
so many different combinations," said 
Devine. "We never seem to have the 
same people out there from week to 
week, and that's made it difficult to 
improve as a unit.'' 
Offensively, the Irish will continue their quest to put movin~ the football, together with putting It in the end zone. "It's not a question of no offensive punch,'' said senior quarter­back Rusty Lisch. "We're moving the football well, but a penalty here, a turnover there, a mtssed field goal here, and poof, no/oints. '' 
Lisch has gaine over 200 yards through the air in four of his last five games. But this week he will be looking over at one of the nation's premier defensive units. The Tigers have given up just 7. 7 points per game, second to Alabama's average 
4.4. No team has gained over 300 and every team has been below its season average on offense. 
lnsh Items: Tomorrow's game will mark the 81st consecutive Saturday afternoon sellout in Notre Dame Stadium ... the Irish have not lost the home finale since 1965. It has only happened twice since 1940 ... last Sat­urday's loss at Tennessee was the most lopsided defeat ever suffered by a Dan Devine coached Irish team ... Notre Dame's freshman split end Tony Hunter is ready to scratch his name in th~ Irish record books. This season he has caught 23 passes for 593 yards, averaging 25.8 yards per reception. The current yards per catch mark is 
22.1 set in 1956 by Jim Morse ... Vagas Ferguson hasn't finished his dance through the record books. His 13 touchdowns put him just one shy of Bob Gladieux's modern day mark and three short of Bill Downs' all-time record of 16 set in I 90S.. .Irish line­backer Bob Crabel is now just 14 tackles shy of Steve Heimkreiter's single season mark of 160 set last season ... Tiger placekicker Obed Ariri (nine of 15 in field goal attempts this year) will return . to Tigertown for next. week's first-round game of the NCAA soccer tournament. The two­sport star from Nigeria holds the distinction of being ranked in the top-10 in career scoring in two sports at Clemson, third in football with 178 points and tied for lOth in soccer with 
"I'm playing /or pnde now," says halfback Vagas Ferguson . yards on the Tiger defense all year, 27 goals. 
------..-----­
The Irish Extra Friday, November 16, 1979 -page 13 
Tiger linem.an Stuckey excels in second -effort 

I 
l 
--------~--~~--~---­
The author is Assistant Director of Sports Information at Clemson. A graduate of Notre Dame ['77), he jomerly worked as an Observer colum­
nist. 
by Tim Bourret 
If you look at Jim Stuckey's picture in the Clemson press guide you might conclude that the Tiger's veteran defensive tackle is another one of those wild and reckless football players who does off-bear things like eat glass and bite· the heads off dead chickens. Some say Stuckey looks like former Southern California linebacker Tim Rossivich, an intense, if not crazy All-American, who ·was known' to perform the above off-beat acts on the spur of the moment. · 
But ] im Stuckey's manner on the field and off is actually the opposite of Rossivich, no'!"' a ~~don-picture actor. Clemson's pre-sea.Son' All-American and certain choice for many post­season honors has a very mature attitude toward the game and this philosophy is one of the secrets to his success. 
''A lot of people think you have to be wild and rough to be a good defensive lineman," says Stuckey, a four-year starter. "But there are so many different offenses and formations in college football today that the defen-. sive tackle position requires much strategy. 
"Sure I have to play with abandon, 
but the best. approach is to have 
controlled wildness. That is the best 
way to describe my style of play. I just 
can't tee off and try to bust my 
opponent's head on every play. Of­
fenses are too sophisticated. 
''When I was young I learned that if I 
get over-psyched, I lose control of 
where I am. I have to hold my position 
and contain and remember my assign­
ments.'' 
Head coach Danny Ford will be the 
first to tell you about his defensive 
tackle's assets and accomplishments, 
but Clemson's first-year mentor feels 
Stuckey's biggest asset is his head. 
''Jim Stuckey wants to be the best 
player at his position in America, _and 
that is one of the reasons he is such a 
fine player. 
"Defensive line coach Mike Bugar has a quote in large letters in his office that reads, 'A defensive lineman's value to his team can be measured by how close he is to the ball at the end of each play.' Stuckey is near the ball at the end of every play. He prides himself on second-effort.'' 
But Stuckey does mor~ than prepare,;. his mind for the football season. Few···­defensive tackles in the natiQn have a more fine-tuned body. "Moij':guy&. h3;ve eithc;r strength or CJ.¥ickne~, bur -·· 
. 'I like to thmk thave,JJOth assets, says Stuckey. ''The b.e:st way to achieve that goal is tO lift wdghts. I've been_ lifting since the niflth grade, an4_: I will continue to asdong as I plav the game. 
'!It ~es a lot of d.isdJ,line and an 
,·;..­
orgamzc;d program,, b¥,t,!{4'ou want .ro be successfuf you ve got to do 1t. Coach Geoq~e Dostal (Clemson's weight traimng coach) has done a great job for me and ail the players in 
"'our weight training program: 
"I work hardest in the winter and the summer months. I usually work out for two hours a day, three days a week in '""=============================== 
the off-season. That way I really never· 
get out of shape, and those early season workouts in the fall are not as taxing." -
Stuckey has been a hard worker for four years and he was justly rewarded in the pre-season when both Playboy magazine and The Sporting News named him to their pre-season All­American teams. 
Through nine games the'Cayce, S.C. native has 15 tackles for minus yardage, including nine quarterback sacks, team highs in both categories. He has been selected to player-of-the­game by various media three times. . The all-Atlantic Coast Conference tackle will face his toughest test this Saturday when he goes head-to-head against Notre Dame's Tim Foley, another pre-season All-American. 
''At the beginning of the year I said to myself that I don't want any one of my opponenrs to be able to say he out-played J 1m Stuckey. If I can sav that after this week against Foley, I will will be satisfied with my season. Foley is a great player and he will be qu;te a challenge. I'm looking at it as a great opportunity to show everyone all over the country what I can do.. " 
CU's Lester 
Brown runs into records 
The author, Chn~>tine Yates, is cur­rently a !Student assistant in the Clemson University Department of Sports Information. 
by Chnstine Yates 
Kenan Stadi~m is nestled in the trees, almost hidden by the woods, in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. Some call it "Blue Heaven" and remember countless encounters with Atlantic Coast Conference foes over the years. But to Clemson fans, it's where their star tailback Lester Brown set some records. 
Last weekend the Tigers traveled to the North Carolina campus with the intentions of spoiling the Tar Heel's homecoming--they succeeded. But Lester Brown went with hopes of breaking some Tiger records and he did. 
Brown rushed for 69 yards against the Heels to finally break the 2,000 yard barrier. With that, he became fifth on Clemson's all-time leading rushers list with 2051 yards. He only needs 120 yards to go ahead of Clemson great Fred Cone and take over the number-four spot. Brown had missed the previous four games with bruised ribs. He could also surpass Cone in two other statistical cate­gories--scoring and touchdowns. 
''The injuries have been frustrating because I had some goals established before the season began, and it appears I won't be able to reach them. I wanted to rush for 1, 500 yards and set the Clemson rushing record for a career, but missing so much time will make it tough." 
"Lester has the talent. His greatest assest is his knack for finding the goal line in near impossible situations. He has great leaping ability and is tough in any situation despite his size. He is 
not  a  bulky  back,  but  a  slicing  
runner,"  says  head  coach  for  the  
Tigers, Danny Ford.  

That style had been Brown's trade­mark and has led to his now-famous nickname, "Rubber Duck". The nick­name began his freshman year when linemen uses to tell Brown they couldn't get a grip on him, and he had a long neck that made him look like a duck with his helmut on. It stuck and even the coaches call him "Duck". 
Brown has some ·Jretty impressive statistics to back up his reputation on the field. Last year, the senior indus­trial management major was second in the nation in touchdowns with 17. Heisman Trophy winner Billy Sims of Oklahoma was first. He was also 
fourth in the nation in scoring, not to mention a first-team all-Atlantic Coast Conference choice. 
Over the past three seasons, he has rushed for over 100 yards on eight occasions. Ironically, one of his career high rushing games came against North Carolina last year, when in 28 carries he gained 154 yards, the second-highest in his career. The "Rubber Duck" scored the winning touchdown and the Tigers defeated the Tar Heels 13-9. 
His best day came against Virginia in the same season, when he turned in 178 yards on 19 carries and two touchdowns in the Tigers 30-14 win over the Cavaliers. In fact, in all eight of Brown's 100-plus games, Clemson has defeated its opponent. 
In the 1979 season, Brown has played in six games, had 98 carries for 428 yards, for a 4.4-yard per carry aver­age. He's had five of Clemson's 14 touchdowns so far this season and is looking for Notre Dame to be his best game. 
"I've been out for four weeks, and I want people to know a few bruised ribs won't keep me out. I'm looking at Notre Dame as just another school we play and encouraging our younger players to do the same.'' 
Regardless of the outcome of Satur­day's contest between the Tigers and the Irish, Lester Brown is a Clemson legend. The Myrtle Beach, S.C. native has accomplished a lot of great things during his career in Tiger-town. It was Lester Brown who was named ABC' a Offensive player-of-the-game and ACC back-of-the-week for his play against conference rival North Carolina State last season when he rushed for 177 yards and scored twice in the Tiger victory. 
It was Lester Brown who scored from three yards oui: midway through the fourth quarter in the ACC champion­ship game against Maryland at Col­lege Park to sew up the Tiger victory by a score of 28-24. And it was Lester Brown who rushed for 121 yards against intrastate rival South Carolina before a crowd of 63,050--the l!irgest ­crowd to ever witness an ACC football game. 
But more importantly, it was Lester 
· Brown who brought so much excite­ment to Tiger fans at home in Death Valley when he would spring over the defensive line for a score and get up to dance in the end zone. It's pandamonium, masses of orange, screaming, wild, Tiger fans and _players like Lester Brown that make 
·football so special at Clemson.

Irish -Tigers 
Date: November 17, 1979 
II
Slt1: Notre Dame Stadium (59,075) nme: 1:30 p.m. EST Radlt: WSND-AM 64 (camous onlvl. Pete Guidon and Rick Miles 
Notre Dame -Mutal Radio Network, AI Wester and Pat Sheridan Television: WNDU-TV, Ch-. 16 (local only), Tom Denln and Jeff Jeffers Sarles: Notre Dame 1, Clemson 0 Lnt Meeting: November 12. 1977 -Notre Dame 21, Clemson 17 Ranklngs: Clemson 14th (AP), Notre Dame unranked Records: Notre Dame 6-3, Clemson 7-2 

Notre Dame 
Offense 
POS. PLAYER HT. WT. CL. 
TE DEAN MASTZAI< 6-4 220 So. LT ROD MARTINOVICH 6-5 260 Sr. 
I_G 
TED HORANSKY 6-3 250 Sr. I~ JOHN SCULLY 6-4 245 Sr. RG TIM hUFFMAN 6-5 265 Jr. fiT TIM FOLEY 6-5 265 Sr. SE TONY HUNTER 6-5 210 Fr. QB RUSTY LISCH 6-4 210 Sr. HB VAGAS FERGUSON 6-1 194 Sr. FB TV BARBER 6-0 185 So. FL PETE HOLOHAN 6-4 215 Jr. p DICK BOUSHKA 6-4 190 Jr. PK CHUCK MALE 5-11 180 Sr. 
Defense 
LE JOHN HANKERD 6-4 241 Jr. LT SCOTT .ZETTEK 6-5 235 RT KEVIN MIFFITH 6-3 230 RE JOE GRAMKE 6-4 234 LLB MIKE WHITTINGTON 6-2 219 MLB BOB CRABLE 6-3 220 RLB BOBBY LEOPOLD 6-2 217
! LCB DAVE WAYMER 6-3 188 RCB DAVE DUERSON 6-2 187
I 
J ss STEVE CICHY 6-3 215 FS TOM GIBBONS 6-1 185 
\
l \ 
Clemson 
Offense 
POS. PLAYER!~ HT. WT. 
TE MARK CLIFFORD 6-4 206 Sr. LT LEE NANNEY 6-4 246 So. LG CHRIS DOLCE 6-2 239 Sr. c MARK THORNTON 6-4 240 
Sr. RG JEFF BOSTIC 6-1 240 Sr. RT GARY BROWN 6-3 257 Fr. SE JERRY GAILLARD 6-0 179 
QB BILLY LOTT 6-1 189 Sr. FB MARVIN SIMS 6-4 234 Sr. TB CHUCK McSWAIN 6-2 190 Fr. FLK PERRY TUTTLE 6-2 172 So. p DAVID SIMS 6-4 220 Jr. PK OBED ARIRI 5-9 162 Sr. 
Defense 
LE BOB GOLDBERG 6-2 222 Sr. LT JIM STUCKEY 6-5 241 Sr. MG CHARLIE BAUMAN 6-1 220 Jr. RT STEVE DURHAM 6-5 239 Jr. RE DAVID REED 6-2 209 Sr. LLB JEFF VAGAS 6-0 223 So. RLB BUBBA BROWN 6-0 210 Sr. RCB EDDIE GEATHERS 6-2 186 Jr. LCB REX VARN 6-1 180 Sr. ss WILLIE UNDERWOOD 5-11 193 Jr. FS JACK CAIN 5-10 179 Jr. 
J' IRISH EXTRA SUPPLEMENT STAFF
;' 
Mark Perry, Editor Paul Mullaney, Asst. Editor and Layout Beth Huffman, Layout Assistant 

, November 16, 1979 ­
Oaken Bucket features battle for bids, prestige 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) -Bowl Corso said he has a '' tre bids, state and national prestige and a will" to beat Purdue "as long as it' share of the Big Ten conference kept in the proper perspective . . . championship could be on the line here When I say it's a war I mean in Saturday as Purdue and Indiana get highly competitive, not vicious, way. togethen-for their annual Old Oaken Purdue holds a 50-25-6 advantage · Bucket football battle. the series, but Indiana has ca 
''I think it's wonderful to come into a 
two of the last three meetings. game like this with more at stake than Two of the league's top quarterback the Bucket,'' said Indiana Coa~h Lee Mark Herrmann and Ttm Clifford, Corso, who is assured his first winning be in the spotlight. Herrmann season in seven years here. "We can become the conferences all-time be proud in this statt" to have two er in nearly every career pass teams such as these and a game like statistic, but the Boilermaker jun this." trails Clifford in this week's co A capacity crowd of 52,354 is expect­
ference figures. ed for the battle between the Hoosiers, . In league play, Clifford has compl 
7-3 overall and 5-2 in the Big Ten, and ed 59.4 percent (98 of 165) of h Coach Jim Young's Boilermakers, 8-2 passes for 1,332 yards and ni 
and 6-1. touchdowns. Herrmann has connec 
A Purdue victory in the 82nd meeting on 56.7 {118 of 208) for 1,350 yards an of the two rivals, combined with a nine touchdowns. Clifford, Michigan triumph over Ohio State, 
has only been intercepted six times would make the Boilermakers, Michi­compared to Herrmann's thirteen. gan, and Ohio State Big Ten co-cham­"I can't say enough-for Clifford, ' 
pions. However, the Buckeyes would Corso said. "He has been fantas receive the conference spot in the Rose this year. He does it all, not only in t Bowl on the basis of having the better statistics. But he is leading the team. 
overall record. 
"Personally, I haven't had as good An Indiana victory, and a Michigan season as I wanted," said Herrman triumph, would put the Wolverines in who appeared on the cover of the Rose Bowl. national football publications It's possible all four Big Ten tearAs 
the season. "The turnovers ha could receive bowl bods, but both certainly disappointed me." Corso and Young aren't interested in He believes turnovers will deci looking past Saturday's game. Saturday's game, which he says is "We have a bowl game against 
''you hear about the rest of the It's something you've got toIndiana at Bloomington Saturday in my estimation,'' Young said. 
with." Corso, who calls the annual battle ;;=============== "war" has closed practices this week and made his players off limits to the media. 
Good Luck 
"It's not secrl(cy," said Corso. "It's just concentration. We're not going to do anything that different. And they aren't either." 
Seniors 
Three Observer scribes tied while lookin 





-· 
MlamiiFia.J at Alabama 
Arkansas at Texas A&M 
Auburn at Georgia 
Colorado at Kansas 
Memphis State at Florida State 
Navy at Georgia Tech 
_Illinois at Northwestern 
j 
Purdue
I 
at Indiana 
t Michigan State
! 
at Iowa 
;I 
Ohio State at Michigan 
Tennessee at Mississippi 
Oklahoma at Missouri 
North Carolina at VIrginia 
~ Harvard at Yale 
Clemson at Notre Dame 


,..,.. 

The Observer Friday, November 16, 1979 -page 15 

Ohio Farmworkers 
L
Committee plans for rally 
by}ane Barber 
The Ohio Farmworkers Sup­port Committee met last night 10 the La Fortune Ballroom to discuss measures that their · group will take concerning a December 8 Civil Rights Rally in Napoleon, Ohio. 
The Cimmittee hopes to ac­quire transportation and wel­comes andy interested students to accompany then to the rally. The Rally is sponsored by the Farm Labor Organizing Com­mittee (FLOC). Anyone inter­ested in supporting or attend­ing the rally should contact Anne Huber at 288-2465. 
The rally springs from the situation of migrant workers versus the technology of large companies which is replacing the workers. 
The migrant farmworkers in Ohio have since 1967 been unioned into FLOC: This 
organization has consistently tried to negotiate contracts with indiviual farmers to obtain se­surity for migrant farmworkers. FLOC maintain that this has been impossible since workers are contracted for one crop and farmers often change their crop. The only stable and certain way to obtain a contract the committe believes would be with the processing companies who consistenly but the same crop to use for their products. 
FLOC has recently tried to negotiate three-way contracts between the migrant workers, the far~ers and the processing compames. 
FLOC's intent is to impress upon these corporation their responsibilites to the poor mi­grant workers whose jobs they are abolishing, or whose posi­tion they are taking advantage of , by refusing to increase 
wages or by recognizing their 
unionization. 
FLOC charges that the Camp­
bell Soup Company is one . corporation which denies any responsibility to the migrant workers who do much of Camp­
bell's field work. 
A group of nuns is trying to 
use their influence as ·share­
owners in the Campbell Soup 
Company to force the corpora­
tion to improve the situation of 
the migrant workers. 
The Ohio Farmworkers Sup­
port Committee will focus their 
efforts toward Catholic second­
ary and elementary schools. 
Many schools encourage their 
students to collect Campbell's 
soup labels which the company 
will redeen for school equip­
ment. 
The committee will try to 
persuade the schools to end 
their support of the company. 
BASEMENT, NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL lEGAL ~ID & DEFENDE'R ASSOCIATION ROOM B·12 283·7795 11am· 2pm (M· F) other times by appointment 
WE HANDLE ALL FINANCIALLY QUALI FIEO STUDENTS & STAFF 

United flight cuts disturb Sen. Bayh 
WASHINGTON, D.C.,-­Senator Birch Bayh (D.-Ind.) said last week he is very disturbed to learn that United Air Lines is cutting some of it passenger service between South Bend and the cities of Chicago and Cleveland, and he promised td do everything he can to see that air passenger service between these cities conttn ues. 
United Air Lines is the largest passenger carrier in the U.S. Currently there are four daily flights from South Bend to Chicago and three daily flights from South Bend to Cleveland. In January 1980, the South Bend to Chicago flights will be reduced to three. In April, United will eliminate all flights from South Bend to Cleveland, and cut one more flight from the South Bend to Chicago route. 
As Chairman of the Senate's Transportation Appropriations_ Subcommittee, B'ayh sti'!'>Ports a program of loan guarantees to help private earners establish new routes and service between cities not served by major airlines. The loan guarantee program totals$800 million, and 1s part of the Transportation Appropriations bill now being evaluated in a House-Senate conference committee. 
"My staff will be working closely with the Civil Aeronau­tics Board in Washington, and with local community leaders in Indiana to help alleviate any problems, and smooth the way for private carriers to take over once United departs," Bayh said. 
Sorin Hall wins contest 
Sorin Hall was awarded first place in the Hall decorating contest during homecoming weekend, according to the Stu­dent Union Social Commission. 
Badin captured second place and Keenan placed third in the competition. 

YOU GET RESPONSIBILITY THE MOMENT YOU GET THE STRIPES. 
A lot of big corporations offer you a big title. But how many offer a young college graduate a really important job? 
As a Navy Officer, you don't have to wait to do a job that counts. We give you one as soon as you've earned your commission. A job with responsibility for thelives of others, and for millions of dollars of complex equipment. A job that requires skillandleaderShip. A job thatNavy Officers have been doing proudly for 200 years. 
If that's the kinci of job you're looking for, speak to a Navy recruiter. You1I find that Navy Officers have unequalled opportunities in fields like Nuclear Power, Aviation, and Engineering. Or call toll free 800-841-8000. (In Georgia, toll free 800-342-5855.) Earlyresponsibility. It's what being a Navy Officer is all about. 
r NA~OP~;.;~ITY------s;:-1 I INFORMATION CENTER I I P.O. Box 2000, ~elham Manor, N.Y. 10803 I I 0 Send me information on Career Opportunities 1
I in the Navy (¢G). I 0 Call me at I
I 
(Area Code) 
I NAME I 
First (Please Print) Last 
I ADDRESS___-----------1 1 CITY STATE ZIP I
I I I DATEOF: ' 
Birth *CoUe~:e GraduationI tUniversity __• GP I
l ______________J
CN11-9 
NAVY OFRCERS GD RESPONSIBILITY FAST. 
-
,.~ 
I 
I 
,. 
\ 
• 
The Observer 
.......................... ~t GSU Pre-Game Socia1 11:30-1:00 11/17 ···········. 
t .......... WILSON COMMONS · · ........ 
Bridge on the River Kwai 
Engineering Aud. _/ 
7&10:30 Sun. 18th & Monday 19th $1.00 
Town & Country Liquots 
wants your business thats why we offer 
lO«ro DISCOUNT 
on ALL wine, liquor & beer for all NU & SMC students & faculty PLUS 
Gordons Vodka.......................... 1/5 $3.69 Kentucky Tavern Whiskey........... Qt. $4.99 Dimitri Vodka ........................... 1/2 Gal. $7.89 Rum ........................................ 1/5 $4.99 Schenley's Whiskey.................... Qt. $4.99 Tequila.................................... 1/5 $4.99 Fox Deluxe............................... Case $3.99 Pabst ....................................... Case $5.69 Stroh's..................................... Case $5.99 Old Milwaukee........................... Case of Qts. $5.90 
OPEN 9:00 am midnight 
259-3262
rown and Country Plaza 157112th St., Mishawaka 259-8364 River Park, 2411 Mishawaka Ave. 289-3868 Southland, 4411 Ironwood 
291-7580 

Ideal gift 
The Hesburgh Papers: Higher Values' in Higher Education 
by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh 
Friday, November 16, 1979 -page 16 
500 million 
UN reports on tnalnourished
i 
ROME (AP) -An estimated 450 million people -and ·prob­ably near 500 million -suffer from severe malnutrition, ac­cording to U.N. food special­ists. 
"They are so severely under­nourished that they are grossly underweight, practically skin and bones, and most of the time they just lie around for lack of stamina," says Dr. Uhe;Kracht, an economist and nutrition expert with the U.N. World Food Council. 
More than 500 million others don't get enough to eat to go about their daily activities, he continued. 
U.N. reports locate most of these people in India, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Cambodia and the Phillipines; Ethiopia, Somalia, and sub-Saharan Africa, and nine Latin American countries. There are more in Vietnam, China and North Korea, but the communist governments of those countnes refuse to pro­vide information or to be in­cluded in U.N. estimates. 
The numbers are increasing steadily and no long-term relief appears in sight, according to a recent study by the U.N. Food 
Council schedules 
film 
The Undergraduate Student Council for the College of Science will sponsor the film "No Act of God", Monday at 7:30p.m. in the Library Audi­torium. Produced by the Na­tional Film Board of Canada, the film claims to be an impartial discussion of the ad­vantages and problems as­sociated with nuclear power as an energy source. An open discussion will follow the half­hour movie with Dr. Paul Kenney, professor of Physics, and Dr. John Lucey, professor of Engineering. The film an.d discussion is open to the pubhc without charge. 
<-:) ('. ·~Ill 
Notre Dame's president has been in office longer than any othen:urrently active president of a · major American univer.•ily. HertJ hi' eveals the private thoughts and behind-the-scene~. events whu:h lwve mar,...,d his poliut:ul, religious, and educational involvements. · 
Available now at 512.95 Book Department 2nd floor The Hammes Notre Dume Bookstore 
and Agriculture Organization. 
"It IS my sad duty to report that on the basis of most criteria, the situation has deter­iorated further in the last two years --it is in fact grim," said Director-General Edouard Saguma in a speech opening the 146-nation FAO conference this week. 
"Even if we make the most enormous efforts to increase food and agricultural produc­tion,'' some 250 million still will be starving by the year 2000, says a major report prepared for the agency. 
''Giving the people who are severely undernourished enough to eat would take only 40 to 60 million tons of wheat a year if the food actually reached those in need," says a World Food Council report. That is less than 3 to 5 percent of present world grain consump­tion or 10 to 15 percent of the cereals fed to livestock in developed countries. 
STEPA~ CEXTER 
The biggest problem is distri­bution, say FAO economist Nicos Alesandratos, "food not going to the people who need 

lt. 't 
CADENA plans talk 
Fr. Peter Hinde and Sr. Betty 
Campbell, both recently r~­
turned from Nic~ragua will 
speak on ''Nicaragua: Revolu­
uon and Reconstruction" Sun­
day at 8 p.m. in the Library 
Lounge. 
The presentation will inclu~e 
slides from Nicaragua. There IS 
no admission charge. The lec­
ture is sponsored by the; Center 
for Experiential Learnmg and 
CADENA. q 
RECREATIO' SCHEDULE 
HOURS: 6?)1-l!P~-1 
DATE \'B COURT
~ 
,I 
Nov, 16 CLOSED • PEP RALLY 
' ' 
Nov. 17 CLOSED -PURE PIV. I R IE LEAGUE CO:\CERT 
!
Nov, 18 Open Open Open Nov. 19 Res. 6:30-8:30 Open Open Nov. 20 Open Open Open Nov. 21 thru 
Nov. 25 Nov. 2 6 Res. 6:30-S:~n Open Open Nov. 27 Res. 6::;o-R:30 npcn Open Nov. 2 8 Res. b::;o-s::;o Open Open Nov. 29 thru 
Dec. 1 CL05LD -m UKI'ST RLIJ[S FES r !VAL Dec. Z Res. 6-10 Open Open Dec. 3 Res. 6-8 Open npcn Dec. 4 Res. 6:30-8:30 Open Open Dec. 5 Res. 6:30-8:30 Open Open Dec. 6 Res. 6:30-8:30 Open Open Dec. 7 and 
Dec. 8 CLOSED -HOXEYTREE CO,CERT Dec. 9 CLOSED -KARATE TOUR,A,\IE:\T Dec. 10 Res. 7-11 Open Open Dec. 11 Res. 7-11 Open Open Dec. 12 Res. 7-11 Open Open 
Dec. 13 Res. 7-11 Open Open 
Dec. 14 thru Jan. 15 CLOSED -EXA~IS, BREAI( 
Stepan Center is now open to stud~nts_ o~ spe~zfic hours for the rest of the 'Semester. Student¥•tvzsfiing to use the basketball or volleyball facilities r:zt the ce_nter: must make reservations with the Student Actzvztzes office zn LaFortune 
Hard to find' Records? Go to 
Just for the Record, 
whose new specialty 
recordmart (thousands of collectors albums and cutouts) will open SOON at LOEWS Merchandise Mart 
Next to bus station, downtown 
~----------------·
I $2 OOOFF I ~. 
I • I 
Get S2.00 off any Family Size pizza with 1I this coupon. Limit one coupon per pizzaI ordered. No other offer valid. I 
I Expires 11 I 22 I 79 I 
I I 
323 E. Ireland Rd. PiZZA I 
South bend 2313 E. Edison Rd. PARLOR 
1
L I _j
420 N. Nappan:uth Bend Elkhart 
·' 
The ·observer Friday, Novetnber 16, liJf9·-~ 17 


by Tim  Vercellotti  always  placed  together  by  !He  is  credited  with  several  
The relationship between God and the universe was the theme of a lecture delivered by Fr. Stanley J aki in Galvin Auditor­ium last night.  scholars. ] aki noted that fifty years ago the two factions were at war with each other. According to the professor from Seton Hall University, it is only the relatively recent  'critically accaimed works, in­cluding Relevance of Physics; Mind, Brain, and Computers; and Planets and P/anetarians. All were well received by both science and theology scholars.  
comination of science and reli­ ] aki earned doctorates in both  
''Science and Religion :  gion in theology curriculums that has brought about a recon­ physics and theology. Added to his writind and scholastic en- 
The Cosmic  ciliation. Fr.Jaki has been called one of  ' deavors, Kai has also delivered Jseveral series of lecture.s at  
Connection''  the most prolific Catholic writ­ers in the United States today.  Oxford and other world renown­ed universities.  

The talk, entitled "Science and Religion: The Cosmic Con­nection," took into account 
Despite non-profit status,
several scientific theories sup­porting the creation of the universe. These theories all advocate an order to the uni­
University faces IRS audits 
verse, Jaki said, and this order can be attributed to a Supreme Mason said that federal audi­
by Stephen Sharp 
Being. Staff Reporter tors are constantly checking the Fr. ] aki stressed that this · Universtiy's research and stu­~ent:ration must realize the 
For the past three weeks, the dent loan funds. At the same 
Importance of both religion and time, Ernst and Whinney, the
Internal Revenue Service has
science, because the people of :University's own accountants,
been taking advantage ofa 1977
today are directly responsible law which allows it free access ' visit regularly to look at the 
for what happens tomorrow. books.
to almost all Notre Dame finan­The main idea behind Jaki's cial-records. 
In 1977, however, the IRS
connection of religion and In addition to their usual began placing educational insti­science was the theory that the audit of payroll tax returns, the tutions and other non-profituniverse is indeed an ordered IRS is checking into the Univer­organizations "under the
place. Furthermore, this order­ty's gross income, receipts, and light," Mason said. Now Notre ...,._..________-""~-------------.....11 
liness is not an accident, but the disbursements. Although they Dame must file a form 990, the The Notre Dame Glee Club recently completed an album ofwork of a Supreme Being. Fr. 
operate relatively tax-free, uni­annual tax exempt return for sacred songs recorded in Sacred Heart Church for release in ] aki likened the universe to an 
versities and other non-profit corporate organiza~ions. the mtddle ofnext semester. [Photo by Rick Dohring].
embryo, still in the process of organizations must now file
development. Mason expects the IRS agent
annual information forms with ~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·~
auditing the new return to
The noted lecturer supported the IRS. 
remain for another 3-4 weeks. ~l~-----··········li.7111···u···iilt8rld.l4 .......................·.·11l1
his ideas on the science-religion "We have federal auditors in 
At ~;>resent, he has brought
connection with the 2. 7 Kelvin almost every week, but this is 
nothmg questionable to the
theory, and other widely ac­the first time the IRS has done 
Univ~rsity's attention.
cepted theories on the creation such an extensive audit. Other !1i1. in chairing the !111 of the universe. 
than that, it's perfectly nor­"But any time auditors are These two schools of thought, mal," said Tom Mason, vice­in, we breathe easier when they 
science an_d re!igion, were not leave," Mason said. illf SBBIOR GLASS !RIP for llll:
president for Business Affairs. 
!~ll ·St. Mary's pick up an Jl~ 
l1ll: i1ll.
application form from the
Irish searches for new home 
::::: • • • =~=~: 
m Student ActiVItieS Office 1: 
BARROW, Alaska (AP) -transmitters now used to moni­
After 13 years in captivity for tor his wild colleagues and b~tu!~sc~~ts~fe~~!h~~ ~0~uid~~; :jjJi in LeMans. 1!!~! the advancement of science, grizzly bears. His diet has been be handled." .. ..· Irish the polar bear has been purposefully varied and his 
given an eviction notice. blood and ussue scrutinized for ic~e fi~~~~t b~.~~?Jne;r~ba~~; .Jill Return bJ !uesdav, Bov. 10 !~.=11... 
He can't return to the wild, understanding the biology of wander off and come back to 't1 and it looks as if finding more arctic mammals, and even arc­town where ne would undoubt-:~~~ ~~~~ 
civilized lodging will be diffi­tic humans. lv be shot," Lauren said. :;:;: AnJ questions call :::: 
He;s never had to develop the :~~~: ~~~~ 
cult. "Irish has lived a very useful Irish's home .haS. been the research life," says Laursen. skills to exist in the wild, he ::~:: ~~~~ 
Naval Arctic Research Labora­"He's extremely healthy and wouldn't be able to fish, to feed:::: Susie Bckelkamp 184:-4871 :::: tory on the coast of the Arctic Ocean since he and a sister would no doubt live for some were brought here as orphaned time, up to 1) years more." 
:~;~j~~~~bZ.~ili.~ h;;.:;.~~ ~""""''""'''''"'"""'"'''"'''""'"'""''"'"'"""'"",""'"'"''""''""""'''"~'"J 
Last night in Galvin 
Jaki discusses 'The Creation'· 
3-month-old cubs by Eskimo Irish's size, 995 P.ounds, is said. But not many responses hunters. The sister has since another logistical stnke against have come in from zoos where died. him, says Laursen. "We'd inquiries have been made on 
The federal government is probably have to fly him out in a Irish's behalf, and those receiv­phasing out the 32-year-old special cage in a D-130. It ed are not encouraging. arctic facility here on Alaska's north shore, well above the Arctic Circle. 
No problems are expected in 
, , , Militants
finding zoo homes for most of the other 100 arctic animalskept at the laboratory. But Irish, on 
[continued from page I]
the downhill side of life and Islam has got a lot ofrespect for luckless with the ladies, is a pointments until Dec. 5 because women and due to the fact we different story. of "slight fatigue and illness." conside~. blacks to be oppressed 
"Irish is 13 l/2 years old, Iran's acting foreign minister, people. • and he's not been with a female Abolhassan Bani Sadr, sug­The embassy militants re­with the exception of three gested Wednesday that the sponded negatively and an-tries, and they took unkindly to non-American embassy cap­grily: · him, so he cowered in a corner tives might be freed by the "Something like this will not be and whined," says Dr. Gary weekend. Yesterday he told considered," Tehran radio Laursen, assistant science di­CBS radio correspondent all quoted them as saying in a 
rector of the lab. women and "blacks" would be statement. "Our conditions are 
"So, he can't be classified as freed soon.· known.... We denouce any a breeding male. And zoos, The S'tate Departmentsayssix negotiations concerning the because of their financial situa­or seven of 15 women hostages hostages' release before the tion, like to maintain breeding are Americans, and there is .at United States extradites the stock," Laursen said. "He's least one black American l:os­deposed shah." g?t ~o. heavy strikes against tage. Iran is seeking a U.N. Security 
htm. Foreign Ministry spokesman Council session to _pressure 
Scientists have been fiddling Ibrahim Mokkala later told the Washington into handling over with Irish all these years, using Associated Press women and the shali. But so far, the United him as a model for designing blacks "possibly" would be States has headed off such a tracking and temperature freed "due to the fact that meeting. 
the 

• 
LaFortune Lunchtime Concert {11:45-1) Gene Barbenera Jeannie Ritter Mike Daly {9-1) Sat 17th {9-1) 
Mickev Mallardi Gene Barbenera nd the debut of· Jim Greselbradt et al Admission· free in the basement of 
Lafonune sponsored by NDSU Social Comm 
The Observer Friday, November 16, 1979 -page 18 
Country goes 'Cold Turkey'

(AP)-Millions of Americans tried to go ''Cold Turkey'' yesterday, giving up cigarettes for 24 hours in the third annual "Great American Smokeout." There were pledges and pa­rades, celebrities and slogans. Anything to keep from puffing. 
"Stop smoking for a day and you can stop smoking for the rest of your life," said'"' Bob Smith, the Buffalo Bob from the old Howdy Doody television show and the Florida State chairman for the smokeout. 
Smith, who quit cigarettes 12 years ago on his doctor's ad­vice, stood on the steps of the courthouse in Miami yesterday, asking passerby to sign no-. smoktng pledges. 
The American Cancer Society, which spons6red the smokeout, estimated that 15 million people--a little more than one­fourth of the cigarette smokers in the country--planned to parti­cipate in yesterday's program. The Society also estimated that 5 million people would make it through the day without light~ tog up. 
Some 14 million people joined last year's smokeout and a survey for the Cancer Society showed that 3.6 million of them went without cigarettes for the full 24-hour penod. No figures were available on how many people kicked the habit for good as a result of the smokeout, but the Department of Health, Ed­ucation, and Welfare estimates that 30 million people have given ul' cigarettes since 1964. 
Activittes in Washington, D.C. were highlighted by a noon rally at Lafayette Park, opposite the White House. Speakers included the surgeon general, Julius Richmond. 
Smokeout organizers in Waukegan, Ill., staged a mock hanging to mark the day. The victtm was a 6-foot cigarette named Nicholas Oliver Teen-­Ni~otine. A posse of local residents dressed like cowboys led the paper a'nd wire cigarette on horseback to the hanging tree.· 
''Nicotine has been convicted of doing in the residents of the community for years,'' said Jean Jordan, the local Cancer Society field representative. ''The American Cancer Society doesn't wam to alienate people 
JUBIL-AIRE 
NOTRE DAME 
AIR HORNS 
Pre-Xmas Delivery GUARENTEED 
This sturdy horn is chrome plated and made of high impact polypropolene. The compact, self-contained electrically operated system works off car battery and automatically plays the first few bars of the Fight Song at the touch of a single button. Installation can be made by any mechanic or do-it-yourself. For 12 volt systems. This in no way interferes with your regular car horn. Complete set, ready to install, 

includes trumpets, compressor, tubing, horn button (or switch), mounting brackets and instructions. 
ORDER TODAY Fill in and mail order blank, or 
call our toll free number to order: 1-800-327-9191 Ext.-548 
(Unconditional money-back guarantee if not completely satisfied.) 
MATHAM INC. Dept. "E" Please send me air horn(s) 2403 Hollywood Place at $69.95 each, including shipping. South Bend, Indiana 
46616 Amount enclosed _______ 
Indiana residents add 4°/o sales tax 
~ 
CHARGE MY MASTERCHARGE 0 CHARGE MY VISA 0
~_j 
CREDIT CARD NO. ·• MC INTERBANK NO. EXP.DATE 
I 1 
Month Year
Signature ______________________________________________________________________ Name -------------------------------Address.-----------------------------­City-------------------------------------------State---------Zip-----------­
who smoke, but cancer comes wrapped in a cigarette and we fight cancer." 
Events in North Carolina, the nation's largest tobacco-pro­ducing state, were low key. 
The Cancer Society said it was encouraged, however, by the fact that 25 of-....the group's 104 local chapters planned some type of smokeout activity this year, compared to only two last year. 
Jim Graham, the North Carolina Agricultural Com­missioner and a smoker of cigars, cigarettes, and a pipe, satd: "No promotion or pres­sure group is going to intimi­date me into denying myself one of the pleasures of my life. At the same time ... I'm not going to set 1. yself up as a commirree of one to try to force people to smoke. I simply say leave people alone and let them make a few decisions for themseIves. '' 
The national chairman of the smokeout is actor Edward Asner. He quit during last year's event and says he hasn't smoked since. 

Freshman Council sponsors raffle 
The functions of the Freshman Advisory Council are to present academtc problems to the Freshman Year of Studies and to plan social events and service projects for the Class of 1983. In light of this last purpose, the FAC is sponsoring a Thanks­giving Raffle with a $50.00 certificate of credit at the Notre Dame Bookstore as the prize. 
All the proceeds from the raffle will be used to buy food baskets to be given to needy families in the South Bend area on Thanksgiving. Chances are $1 and can be bought from the Freshman Advisory Council re­presentatives in each dorm. 
The drawing for the Bookstore certificate will be on Monday at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Ball­room. 
The 1979-80 Notre Dame Freshman Advisory Council an­officers are: President, Robert Powers,' representative from Keenan; Vice-President Derrick Campbell, representative from Pangborne; Secretary-Trea­surer Jane Trusela, representa­tive from LyoaiS. Also chosen were two representatives to the Saint Mary's Freshman Coun­cil, Bob Velcich, representative from Cavanaugh, and Polly Hudak, representative from Walsh. 
-. . 
Other members of the Council are: Andy Lyke (Alumni), Christy Dasek (Badin), Jane Barber (Breen-Phillips), Mike McAuliffe (Carroll), Greg Lezynski (Dillon), Laune Reynolds (Farley), John Campana (Fisher), Tom Han­couch (Flanner), Tony Romeo (Grace), Steve Cassi (Holy Cross), Rick Garcia (Howard), Kathy Callahan (Lewis), Tim Hartigan (Morrissey), Deao Jacob (St. Edward's), Mo Ruggiero (Sorin), Greg Miller (Stanford), Mike Kelly (Zahm), I / and Eileen O'Meara (Off-Cam­pus). 
• • • t •
. . ' .•i • ·' ( ... 

The Observer Friday, _No~ember 16·, f:m__ 

: 1111..._1 . ., -. :
Meany bids AFL-CIO farewell : ~f./l+· ', -,_() : 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Bronx-accented voice, though on issues ranging from foreign George Meany, the gruff and weakened by age and illness, policy to domestic concerns. powerful voice for a generation remained unemotional until the But none is e:x;pected to en­
iS()utt:·lkr·1cli of working people, bade a very end. counter oppositibn, and all re­tearful goodbye to his "house But then, even tough old present a continuation of the of labor'' yesterday with a call George Meany was unable to policies laid down over the for new leaders and policies to restrain the tears. Twice his years by Meany and Kirkland. 
i lt~£Clti()ll~ j
keep the AFL-CIO in step with voice choked, •and only with , Meany, who helped engineer the changing world. difficulty could he utter in a the merger of the old American shaking voice: ''To God go my Federauon of Labor and the 
! Clfather's Pizza i
The AFL-CIO, which Meany prayers...of thanks for granting Congress of Industrial Organi­helped forge in 1955 and ruled me more than one man's share zations in 1955, noted that ever since, "is alive and well," of happiness and rewards, and Thursday was the 98th anniver­the retiring 85-year-old labor prayers for His continued bles­sary of the first national tradeleader said in a farewell ad­
•
sing on this nation and on this union center, the federation'sdress to an emotion-swept fed­movement and on each of you.'' direct descendant. 
•
eration convention. 
The delegates, many weep­But "the labor movement •• It's incredible... ••
ing with Meany, roared back in cannot be content with defend­tribute to him, and he, his face
illg the status quo or reliving • the thickest . richest •
sullen, waved back. When he past glories," sa1d Meany, who Students to aid. 
tried to gavel the ovation to an :• most mouth -watering pizza •:long has been criticized for end, the delegates, for once,failmg to keep the AFL-CIO up refused to give the iron-willed : your two lips ever put a loLk on. :with changing times. "We labor patriarch his way. 
Cambodia
must constantly look to the 
• 
future, develop new leader­Although Meany's long ste­• • ship, adapt policies to changing wardship over the 13.6 mil­
: 52920 U.S. 31 N. Town Qnd Country :
conditions and new technolo­lion member AFL-CIO has been 
with fast.
gies. criticized for not altering the e _ Shoppinff Center •
277 5880
A gaunt and ashen Meany, federation's policies, there is 
: 259-2556 : 
confined to a wheelchair, little evidence so far at the 
Students Concerned for Cam­
thanked the 1,C )0 delegates convention that delegates •
bodia (SCC) will collect signa­
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••I • a_ttending_ the opening c~nven­would heed Meany's call for 
tures for a lunch and/or dinner twn sesswn ·'for the h1ghest new policies, at least immedi­fast today at lunch in both Notre A pitcher of Coca-Cola free with J 
honor that could be paid any ately. 
Dame dining halls. The fast 1 the purchase of any medium or .
human being, the honor of There will be a new leader, will raise funds for the Catholic 1 large size of the thickest , richest, 
I
leading this great organization AFL-CIO Secretary-Treasurer 
Relief Services ad­
1 most mouthwatering piz:z:a your two I
of workers who have built this Lane Kirkland, Meany's pro­
ministeting aid to Cambodian
nation.'' tege and hand-picked succes­I lips have ever put a lock on. 1
refugee camps.
-The convention responded sor. I Coupon is valici on eat-in pizza orders onlv and expirPs I with a long, whistling ovation. Kirkland, 57, and his new sec will also solicit outside of I j lru· ''""I"'" pr·r· pizza • · llr•r·r·rrrhr·r· Ih. I117'! 1 Delegates applauded him secretary-treasurer, Meany the stadium and will operate a when Meany, crippled by an aide Thomas R. Donahue, are concession stand tomorrow on 1 ...but you gotta buy a pizza first. I
~-------------------------1 
arthritic hip since April, was running without opposition for ·the Library green. A slide 
I Present this coupon at the coun!er · I
wheeled into the convention the federation's top two posts presentation in the Nazz and a 
I when you order a small or meuium I
hall. OJ) Monday, when Meany offi­film on the Cambodian situation 
I !JMee~_ si·.·" Godfather's P!zza and we'll give I
The former plumber man­cially ends his 57-year labor featuring Fr. Hesburgh in the 
I ........ (YOU two bowls of his healthy I
aged to put forth his usual stern career. Library Auditorium wt!l also be 
I ". greensfree. 1
grimace throughout most of his The convention also will be presented. Both will start to­1 Coupon valid on eat-in pizza orders and expires _ I 15-roinute address, and' his adopting some 260 resolutions morrow at 10 a.m. ' .. I ,,.,.,.,J! ...,. 1h. ,., •'J I '·
I 
Books Are A Great Gift Idea Explore the SECOND FLOOR of the 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
. • •L. •• w """ ·I 
Subjects Include: l(S 1(1300
coo ~ 
p.,_RJ. 
THE FIGHTING IR!SH By
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE 
William Gildea And Christo­
DAME, A PORTRAIT OF ITS 
pher Jennison, regularly$12.95,
BEFORE ROCKNE AT NOTRE HISTORY & CAMPUS By
THE 
now on SPECIAL $5.98. Dram­
DAME By Chet Grant (An Professor Thomas Schlereth (A
DAME 1980 CALENDAR By atic! stories of N.D.'s Football
Inside look at Notre Dame Beautifully Illustrated History
Phi~ip C: Thompson $5.95. A History through the 1years.
Football before Rockne), $9.95. of Notre Dame(, Hardbound
lasung gtft (the 12 prints can be Includes a ~allery of ;are and
$25.00, Paperback $7.95.
framed). · 
excfusive1 photos. ­


The Observer Fri~y, November 16, 1979 -page 20 
Bostock 
trial 
continues 
CROWN POINT, Ind. (AP).. Three Psychiatrists were set to testify today in the second trial of Leonard Smith, charged with killing California Angels out­fielder Lyman Bostock. 
The doctors were the testify for the court. Both the prose­cution and defense rested their cases yesterday, and Lake Su­perior Judge James Kimbrough said he expected the case to go to. the jury today. 
The prosecution and defense both limited their cases to witnesses who had testified in the first trial. However, the defense did not have Smith testify this time. ' 
Bostock, visiting friends in Gary wh.ere he once lived, was wounded fatally Sept. 23, 1978, as he sat in a car with the defendant's wife and her sister. 
... Ryan 
(continued from page 21] 
Leaguer to win 21 games. 
In declaring his free agent status, Ryan said the nearness of the Astrodome to his home· town Alvin was an important consideration. 
"Houston has everything int their power to sign me.'' he said. 
. Final 
(continued from page 24] 
last Sunday and threw a touch· d?wn pass, will engineer the Btg Red attack. He'll receive help from Dan Crowley, who caught three passes for 106 years last week and Kevin Kenny, who piled up 108 yards rushing against Stanford. 
For Morrissey, three year starter Jim Byren will call the signals. He passed for 60 yards in last week's victory over Holy Cross. He'll also have a strong herd of running backs behind him, a bac~ld that gained 120 yards last week. 
Dillon (5-0-1) and Morrissey (5·1-0) both exhibit the tough, 
"in  the  trenches"  style  of  
defense.  The  Big  Red  has  
recorded  five  shutouts  this  

year, and Morrissey has chalk· ed up four of their own. 
Happy Birthday 
Spagetti, 
you Wild !exan Alligatorll from Prozen Margarita Breath 
~~v TGIF~­
Happy Hour· 25eBeer soelhinks Free· Snacks! 
Student Union Concerts Presents Ar-Evening with With 
HAR Y 
HAPIN 

A Benefit Concert for the World Hunger 
Friday Dec. 7 -8 P·M· 
Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets $6.50 and 5.50 
on sale at the ACC Box Office 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. also at the usual ACC ticket outlets and River City Records Stores in South Bend and Misawaka 


Alberta Animal Empire Athlete's Foot L.I.AYRES a.lterShoas a.rman Buci!Uin a.I'IUird Wigs Boot!Wortd BoHomHaH Bnm.r•s 33 Flavors Brown's Sporting Boods Burger Chef Camelot Music CerdC.ge Casual Comer Cavalier Camera CMrlle CMn Res..u1'8nl CheuiJRt Chlc~FII-A ­Cinema I, II, Ill Circus World Toys Claire's Boutique Clifford's Diamond Center 
•c1oclt Collection Coolde Factory C01111tySnl 
.,• 
Sports Briefs. _____ 
Pep rally tonight 
T_he fina! pep rally of the ~979 football season will be hetdlj thts even10g · • at 7 p.m. 10 the Stepan Center. Featured speakers include poet Tim Foley, Ted Horansky, Scott Zettek and offensive line coach .Brian Boulac. . 
Cheg I wins tourney 
T~e Engineering Basketball League recently completed t~etr annual fall tournament. Twenty-four teams set their stghts. on the championship, but Cheg I emerged as the top tea!ll 10 the tourney. Compsed of six chemical engineering maJors, Cheg I defeated Arkiell in the finals 21-17. Members of the winning tea~ were: Skip Mark, Dan McKernan, Jim Fontana, Joe Casal10o, Paul Deangelis, and John Kuzan. 
I 
Rollerskiers come to ND 
Five rollerskiers, sponsered by the National Collegiate Ski Association (NCSA) will be arriving at Notre Dame this Sunday. They are skiing cross country from Oregon to New York to raise money for the United States Olymptc Ski team. 
The group will present a slide show of the 2200 miles they have skied thus far on Sunday at 6 p.m. in the Little Theatre in LaFortune, and will be available afterwards for questions and demonstrations. All interested skiers and non-skiers are welcome to attend . 
UUIVeRSITY PaRK 
CLEVELAND AT GRAPE ROAD 
It's Allin Store For You... 
Cressy & EvareH Raahors Evanson's Cards & Gifts Father & Son Shoes First National Bani! Florshalm Shoes Fox's Jewelers Foxmoor Casuals Frontier Fn1h & Nut Fun-Ill-Games Bantus TheBap Benai'81Nutrltlon Bllbert's Gordon Jewelers Great Hot Dog Experience Hanover Shoes Hlcltory Fanns Homemalter Shop Hoi Sam's House ol Ylslon 
•J.L. 
HUDSON 

•Hush 
Puppies Jean Nicole Jeans West Jo-Ann Fabrics JustJuns 



Kannalltom Shoppa Kinney Shoes Lana Bryant Lemar Shop The Limited Lion's Den Loading Doell Louie's Tux Shop Lowrey Organ Marianne Shop Merta Nonnan Milady Shop Morrow's Nut House Molbercare Muslcland National UnHonn Shop Naturallzar Shoes Newman's NobiiShoas 
• 
01'8nge Julius OscoDrugs Paltlana Hosiery 
•J.C. PENNEY Plerclnt Pagoda Radio SMelt Red Cross Shoes 
Rr,dwood & Ross Regis Hairstylists Richman Brothers 
J. Riggings 
J.B. Robinson Jewelers ScoHo Pizza SEARS SIIYennan's Size 5-7·1 Shop So-Fro Fabrics Spencer Gifts Stride Rhe Bootery Susie's Casuals TammeyJewels Things Remembered Thom MeAn Shoes The Tinder Box YlllageScene Wags Restaurant Walden Boob Wlcb-111-SIIcb World Bazaar Your Father's Mustache Zale'sJawelers 
•opening soon 
OVER  90  SHOPS  
AND  SERVICES  
FOR  ALL  YOUR  

SHOPPING NEEDS ••••..• JUST A FIVE MINUTE DRIVE AWAY! 
UUIVeRSITY PaRK 
CLEVELAND AT GRAPE ROAD 
Mall Hours: Mon thru Sat 1 0 am -9 pm, Sunday 12 -·5:30 pm 
A joint venture developrneht of The Edword J. DeBartolo Corporation, monoging partner, ond Cressy Associates 

.....,... ~ 
.'·t .. 
The Observer Friday, November 16, 1979 -page~21 
~· 
Ryan m.ay becotne (Astro) dotner 
HOUSTON (AP)--The Houston Astros were not talking yester­day, but there was indication Nolan Ryan, the strikeout artist who grew up on schoolboy diamonds 26 miles for the Astrodome, will sign a four­year Astro contract for a reported $4 million-plus. 
Ryan, at his home in nearby Alvin, would only say that he has one team in mind. 
''I'm not going to comment on the team," he said. "I'll let the club make its own announce­ment. But I've made up my mind, you can say that." 
' Houston was one of 12 clubs to select Ryan, 32-year old right­hander, in the recent free agent draft, but the only other senous contenders reportedly have been the New York Yankees, Texas Rangers, and Milwaukee Brewers. The Houston Post reported yesterday the contract signing will be Monday, but John Mcl\ifiillen, -me-Astros owner, and Bill Virdon, the field mana­ger, indicated no knowledge of such plans. McMullen, a New York ship-
SMC swimmers open 
by Deidre Grant Sports Wn'ter 
The Saint Mary's swimming team will travel to George Williams College in West Chi­cago, Ill., as they open what coach Steve Smith hopes will be a promis_ing se~so~. . 
Smith IS begmntng hts first year at Saint M!lry's, and h~s been concentrating on organi­zing and getting to know his team. 
The Belles had their largest turnout ever, as 35 women have expressed interest in .the team. That number has been cut to 17 and Smith is still choosing hi~ first team swimmers. 
''The girls are tryir •eme­ly ha:-d and h~· , .... ttitudes during this v 6 anfzati~nal peri­
,.+ . + -·+ . +-+""+ -+ + + 
ti-+++++++ 
+++++++ 
t + + + + + + + + + + + + 
t+++++ +++++t 
t + + + + + + + + + + . 
~ + + + + + ~ 
t+++++++ t 
+ t + + + t + + presen s 
+++++++++ 
:::::.++ +. a~~--~~ 
+ + + + + + ~ iL ~ 
California Road (an extension of Day Road) 
Tickets: Elkhart Truth •Templins 
•River City Records •Imperial Music eat door •or Cal1293-9619 
... Crotty 

builder, said no deal had been made with Ryan, but acknow­
ledged  he  plans  to  fly  to  
Houston  on  Monday  for  an  
afternoon  meeting  with  his  
partners.  

''I'll stay over a few days," McMullen said. Virdon, in Springfield, Mo., said he know nothing definite 
[continued from page 24] 
featured numerous presenta­tions to flayers, coaches and friends o the squad. Hunter also named his co-captains for the 1980 season which include Joe· Ciuni, Oliver Franklin, Kevin Lovejoy and Danny Me­Currie, all of whom will be 
seniors next year. 
Graduating co-capta~n. Tim Nauman was the reCipient of the annual coaches award, giv­en to the player that most exemplifies the spirit of the 
od for the team," Smith com­mented. 
Veteran divers Patty Meagher· and Sara Weger return, and Smith also feels that Kearilll Carey and Eva Cekaitis should!. be two promising swimmer~ this year. He is quick to point out that non-final decisions have been made about the first team, and that much more will be known about the individuals after tomorrow's meet. 
The team has been encounter­ing some early problems, as the pool at Regina Hall, where the Belles usually practice, has been closed for over a week due about a contract, but said Ryan would be, in Houston, joining a pitching staff the includes J.R. Richard, the National League strikeout leader at 313. Ryan was 16-14 with the California Angels. Richard was 18-13, and teammate Joe Niekro, at 21-11, was the only National 
[continued on page 2o] 
Notre Dame soccer team. 
''Tim represents perfectly what this award means,'' com­mented Hunter. "He did whatever we asked of him­whenever he was needed and his greatest reward was helping th~ team win." 
The approximately 150 people who attended the affair were treated to a Polish-style dinner as well as numerous speakers including Athletic Director Ed­ward "Moose" Krause and his associate, Colonel John Steph­ens. In the evening's featured speech, Sports Information and Assistant Athletic Director Ro­ger Valdiserri told the audience tH.at ''life is a series of emo­tions--highs and lows, winning and losing--and athletics, while only a microcosm of life, teaches us how to better cope with these emotions.'' 
The evening conclude with t_he remaining player awards _u~­eluding: Paul Devereaux--spti"It award; John Milligan--most im­proved player; Tom Luetk~­hans--scholar-athlete; Kevin Lovejoy--most goals scored(22) 
and  Mike  Mai--most  as­ 
sists(15).  
Freshmen  awards  went  to  

Gerard McCarthy (Most Valu­able Player), Steve Berry (Most Improved Freshman) and Mar_k Luetkehans (freshman contn­bution to varsity squad.) 

..  
~~  AU-BOWL OR BUCKS ($400)  






+ + + + + r + + + + + 
+ + + + + + \ljnnnnn:n:nnn:'ti + + + + + : Before you graduate from college! Because now, you can com­
+ + + + + + .. .. ' + + ·+ + + + 
to filtering problems. The swimmers attempted to prac­tice at a nearby pool, but many could not be contacted or make transportation arrangef!lents. 
. ... +·--... + + + + .+ + -. 
++++++++ 
+++++++ 
+ + + + + + + 
+ + + + + +
+ .+ + + + + 
+++++ 
++++t 
+ + + +· + 
+ + + +•+ 
+ + + + + 
++++++++ bine service in the Anny Reserve or National Guard with Aimy
+ + + + + + + + + 

++++ + ROTC. It's called the Simultaneous Membership Program (SMP). 
+ And, depending on your academic year when you enter, SMP + + can help you earn over $6,500. + + Here's how it works. Ifyou qualify and a vacancy is available, + + you become a member of an Arriiy Reserve or National Guard unit + + ;as an officer trainee and, at the same time, enroll in the Anny 
+ ' ROTC advanced course at your college. Your Reserve or Guard + 
+ + membership will pay you atthe minimum level ofSergeantE-5,and ; you'll receive $100 a month during the regular school year as an + +.+ + +<::: Army ROTC advanced course cadet. 
+ + + + t ,+ 
At the end ofyour second year ofadvanced ROTC, you'll be
· 
••• t\:J1r.'l' .-1ft~ -h..liM8' •••i•w•t 
commissioned a second lieutenant and, assuming there's avacancy,
J.D.Crowe&The NewSouth serve with a Guard or Reserve unit while you complete the require­
ments for your colleg_e degree. Upon graduation, you may con­
tinue service with a Guard or Reserve unit while pursuing your 'civilian career, or you can, ifyou prefer, compete for active duty as 
November 17, 1979.....8 pm 
.an Army officer. · 
ELKHART MEMORIAL HIGH SCHOOL 
Soif_you'd like to earn over $6,500 while you're still in college,
• get into SMP. Because SMP can help you do it. You can bank on it!
* For further infonnation, contact the Professor of Military
• Science at your school. 
·:: * tJiir ~~ 
• \e' ·= 
a
* ARMYROTC. ARMYNATIONALGUARn ARMYRESERVE.
: 
~ The Observer 
Molarity 
GO/IIG Otrr Went T1lkl 

Pigeons 
~! 1'\/E ltJ~ ~E woel.P'S FI!Z:."ST ~S\ZEP ~t> ~IPUAI-12AP14tla.! 

klUGL.~ SoMe. ! 
The Daily Crossword 
© 1979 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. All Rights Reserved ­

Tb CefeMial ANCAKEHOUS Fcuecilg RafaaJuud 
()ul! .9pecioQty 
(Ovett-CBoked ~pQe cpancakeg 
Our Specialty using fresh sliced apples topped with a sugar cinnamon glaze nevet surpa.s&ed! 


.. ,
t 
t 
Friday, November 16, ·1979 -page 22 
by Michael Molinelli 
r 
Hoosiers 
picked 
number one 
(AP)-Indiana University nar­
rowly beat out Kentucky for the 
top spot in the Associated Press 
preseason basketball poll, 
which was announced yester­
day. 
The Hoosiers of the Big Ten 
won by 12 points over Kentucky 
of the Southwestern Confer­
ence, 974 to 962. It was one of 
the closest and most balanced · ~ 
voting in recent years. 
Indiana drew 14 ballots for the 
No. 1 spot in the nationwide 
voting by sports writers and 
broadcasters. Kentucky 
attraacted 11 and Duke had 
seven. 
No team in the voting topped 1 
l ,000 points, usually the pre­
requisite for the leading school 
in the poll. '~'And · onty·· one 
team-Duke-was named on all 59 
ballots. 
Ohio State, also of the Big 
Ten, recieved as many first· 
place ballots as the Hoosiers, 
but only 936 points. Notre 
Dame pulled in nine first-place 
votes and was ranked fifth. 
North Carolina, DePaul, 
UCLA, and Purdue were the 
only other teams to receive first 
place votes. 
Basketball 
APBASKETBALLPOLL 
The Top Twenty teams in the Associated 
Press college basketball poll, with first-place 
votes in parenthesis. last season's records 
and total points. 
1. Indiana (14) 22·12 974 
2. Kentucky (11) 19·12 962 
3. Duke (7) 22·8 956 
4. Ohio State (14) 19-12 936 
5. Notre Dame 191 24-6 884 
6. North Carol ina (1) 23-6 812 
7. Louisiana State 23-6 800 
8. UCLA (1) 25·5 631 
9. DePaul (1) 26·6 549 
10. Louisville 24-8 529 
11. Purdue (1) 27-8 472 
12. Syracuse 26-4 462 
13. Virginia 19-10 406 
14. Texas A&M 24-9 348 
15. Brigham Young 20-8 304 
16. St. John's 21-11 289 
17. Oregon State 18·10 172 
18. Marquette 22-7 157 
19. Georgetown. DC 24·5 138 
20. Kansas 18-11 133 
Others receiving votes. listed alphabetically: 
Alabama. AICQ,\n Stat!(. Arizona, Arkansas. 
California, Cotrnecticut, Creighton, Dayton, Detroit. Duquesne. Eastern Kentucky, Flor­ida State. Furman. Georgia. Holy Cross. Houston, Illinois, Jacksonville, Lamar. La· . Salle, Long Beach State. Maryland, Michi­gan, Michigan State. Minnesota, Mississippi State, Missouri. Nevada-Las Vegas. New Mexico, North Carolina State, Oklahoma. Old Dominion. Pacific. Pennsylvania. Rutgers, San Francisco. South Alabama, Southern California. Temple, Tennessee, Texas. Texas Christian. Toledo. Utah, Villanova. Virginia Tech. Washington State, Weber State, 
Wichita State 

In medias-Before Servant to Shylock Encircled Bag man English meals Plymouth Rock Slithery one Sickness Moolah Bay of Japan Net hat Bore witness Freed from anchorage One in front: abbr. Mythical bird Docket Make tighter Curveq0 _, letters Bestial Harm: Fr. Long Island town Great success A Calhoun Pillage Fool Bath, e.g. 
ACROSS  29  Navy man:  
1 Scheduled  abbr.  
4 Spurious  31  Originally  
imitation  named  
8  River to  32  Actor Byrne  
the Rhone  34  Peru native  
13  Well-bred  35  Fleming  
one, for  36  Hardened  
short  comic  
14  Native of  40  Deserter  
Gdynia  41  Aquatic  
15  A Horatio  bird  
16  Kiln  42  Tablet  
17  Soviet sea  43  Break or  
18  Tailo1's  cast  
iron  44  Rep. oppo­ 
19  Car sweeper  sition  
22  -cante  45  Wrathful  
23  Shoe part  49  Musical  
24  Trodden  symbol  
walk  51  Exchange  
27  Command  mediums  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

by McOure/Bymes 

55 
56 
59 
61 62 
63 64 65 66 
67 
68 
1 
2 Still on 
3 4 5 6 7 
8 9 10 
Range fuel Solemn 
flower Baseball 
player Brook Chamber 
or bellum Lance Silkworm -of March In a des­
pondent 
manner Store type: 
abbr. Duryea of 
films 
DOWN More costly 
the shelves 
Caesar's 
last query 
Pitcher 
Warren 
Lively 
dances Southern 
shrine Bugs 
Bunny's alter ego Emilia's 
husband Sailing 
vessel Abnormal conceit 
11 12 13 
20 21 25 
26 
28 
30 33 34 
36 37 
38 
39 
40 
46 47 
48 
50 52 53 
54 
57 58 59 60 
" 
-
--~-~~~-­
-
' 
-. ­.. I 
The Observer .FilCiay, Novem1>et .. l6, I"'-·page l' 
.. --­
All classified ads must be 1'8C81ved by 5:00p.m. , two dar. prior to th~ issue in which the ad is run. TM Obllrwr office wll acce t class1fleds Monday throu~h Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. ~I classifieds must be pre-pad, either in person or through the .mail.
Classifieds 
-
Mar-Main Pharmacy at 426 N. Michigan N"eed ride to Pittsburgh to/from break. 225 Kathy cashes personal checks for students with The Sun Cries, The Sky Wee8s,
Share expenses. Dave 8859. 
Tickets
an NO/SMC 10. The Grey Lakes Mourn ur Love's 
Morrissey Loan Fund Student loan $20-$200. One percent interest. Basement of LaFortune. 11:30­
12:30 M-F. 
Need ride to Florida for Thanksgiving. 
Passing.Please call Chris 1852. I need 2G.A. Clemson Tix together. Call The Cy(l11et wails for its lost loved ones. Anna (SMC) #5782. And, we' are orphans.
Need ride to Colorado for Thanksgiving. 
Call Mark 4663. Need two Clemson tickets. Peter 1863. 
Used Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. I need aride to 0' Hare on 11121 between Tickets wanted--One book of student 9-7. Ralph Casperson, 1303 Buchanan 12:30 and 3:00. Please call Marcia at season basketball tickets, or as many Rd. Niles 683-2888. 7126. single tickets as possible. Call Don 8762. 
Any stOdents interested in learning Chinese for credit call 277-5581 after 11 )p.m. 
Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 277-0296. 
IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Send $1.00 for your 306-page catalog of colleg1ate research. 10,250 topics listed. Box 25097G, Los Angeles, California, 
. 90025. (213) 477-8226. 
COZMIK PRODUCTIONS HAS "THE HUMANS"! Available now for dances and parties. Mick -8212. 
ST. LOUIS CLUB RIDE LINE: Drivers and riders call 7374 for arrangements. Dues should be pail!l as soon as pos§ible. 
Kennedy Campaign meeting Sunday, Riders needed to Omaha or any interme­diate points. Leave Sun. Nov. 18. Call 3173. ' 
Need ride to Minneapolis for Thanks­giving. Please call Mary Ann at 4-1-4347. 
Buspersons and dishpersons needed -­male or female. Apply at The Carriage House, 24460 Adams Road. 272-9220. 
Need 2-4 floor tickets for Eagles Concert. Please call 232-4462 after 5:30. 
Need ride to Milwaukee for Thanks­giving. Can leave any time after 12:00 noon on Tuesday. Katie 8142. 
Need ride to Boston to announce my candidacy over Thanksgiving. Will share usual, call Mike-288-1376. 
Need GA tickets for Clemson game. Call Doug 6740. . 
For Sale: 2Eagles Tix (Section 10, row 2). Best offer. Call John 1360. 
' Wanted: GA's for Clemson. Will pay top $. Call1865. 
Desperately need many student and G A tickets to Clemson. Call Joe 1644. 
Need 2 G .A. and 1 student ticket for Clemson. Will pay$$$. Call Jim at 1161. 
WANTED: GA tickets for any home Barnes. Must be two or more together. all 287-3311 Danny -Joe. 
Desperately need 2 GA tickets to Clemson! Please call 7831. 
Happy Birthday Mort! Charlie, Chuck and Jeff 
Happy Birthday Mort! / Zip and other famous pinheads 
Happy Birthday Mort! Section 2-A 
Happy Birthday Mort! Paul arid other famous pusheads 
-
Strip Dictionary at 601 N. Hili. Contact Huggy for info. 
Save this ad!! Spice up your next party with the semi-precious stones, a unique Oriental dance experience. Reasonable rates! 291-8215 evenings. 
Perrier-If you get a yen--resist. Kimbee and the Spaggetts 
#1 on the charts. 
As you play your flute-­Remember Knute-­and all the Spaggettes, too. 
•(P.S. Picolo doesn't rhyme.) 
To Kelly, our 'exclusive friend'-· Hey man, what's your bag? Have a riot of a birthday! It's wild! 
Happy 18th! We love ya! Patty, Amy, Hilary, and George 
Dear Tony, 
There won't be a HEARTACHE TONIGHT once we have ALREADY GONE to see the EAGLES. I can't wait-­
it will be the greatest. BEST OF MY LOVE, Leslie 
Go irish! We've been waiting all year•tor • this trip and we want a big win! The Tasker Tavern Gang 29th and Tasker Subway Alumni 
Harvey, Georgie, Jack, Mouche, Samba, Tommy G., and Dog Boy 
Hera's to a girl from Elgin 
Who makes all she knows feel welcom, with a heart of gold, She can warm up the cold; And her smile makes me wish I was German. 
Thanks for bringing so much sunshine into our lives. Brian and Cathy 
Help! Need 2GA's for Clemson. Friends coming out here from NJ. Tom 8655. 
Happy Birthday WRC 
"Your Roommate" 
Michael, I just wanted to say GLUCK, GLUCK!! Guess Who 
Mikey Mulligan [Stanford] You know what you can do with your steamshovel! Regina North 
Ann, The cookies were great. When do I get my back massage? Guess Who 
Tish, Bon voyage! Have agreat time but just watch saki at the pre-rally! . 
Huggi and Lace, 
Looking forward to a wild night of sin and de~adence. Hope we get home by game t1me. 
Bimbo and Babe 
Barb-­Congrats on your legality. See you at Christmas! 
Margaret K 
1 
Barb Brock-Happy 19th birthday! i 

Friday, November 16, 1979 ~page 24
~orts 
Irish muscle past Soviets, 86-7 6 
by Paul Mullaney "When you're hot, you're hot. aided by Tkachenko' s absence-· Assistant Sports Editor They were slacking off of me a that meant the most to Phelps. little in the second half, and I ''I was worried about our AJexandr Gomelsky, coach of just took advantage of it.'' rebounding, and I will continue. the Soviet Union National bas­The Irish also took advantage to worry about our rebounding ketball team, had little to be of a strong board game, outre­throughout the season," Phelps pleased with after his team's bounding the Soviet Olympic said. "But, if we conCfntrate 86-76 setback to Notre Dame squad, 50-35. on the reboundin~ game like we last night at the .ACC ' 'This is the first time that I did tonight, I thmk we wilJ be 
"Wtih normal officials, I think have lost in rebounding," said able to play with anybody.'' my team would have won Gomelsky of his team's effort. Tripucka was backed up by 12 tonight," Gomelsky, in broken "I think my boys are tired. It is points each from Woolridge and English, said. "These were difficult to travel. When you Hanzlik, while Branning had 10 football officials, not basket­play 14 games in 26 days, you and Tracy Jackson eight. ball." play al_mos~~very day. We're a Tripucka was also the game's 
But Irish coach Digger Phelps little ttred. leading rebounder, with 12. thought otherwise. The Soviets were also foul­Veteran Soviet guard Sergei 
"He was stunned," said prone in the contest. Thred Belov, 35 years of age, was the Phelps of his Soviet counter­Russian front-liners exhausted Russian's only other double­pan. "He didn't \know what their eligibility with five fouls, digit · scorer, as he hit 16 went wrong. I knew his including seven-foot, four-inch pomts. Forward Anatoli Mish­personality ·like Patton knew center Vladimir Tkachenko. kin led the visitors with nine Rommel's." ' The 21-year-old Soviet pivot led rebounds. Tkachenko blocked 
The Irish, nevertheless, knew his squad with 25 potots, but four shots. how to rebound from a 15-point spent much of the second half Phelps and Gomelsky. in the first-half Russian lead and ig­on the bench with four fouls. meantime, were playing their nite a sellout throng of 11,34 5 m "We felt we would go with own ~arne at courtside. 
their 1979-80 debut. three guys on Tkachenko," said "Thts was our lOth interna­
''They only way we could have Phelps. "we would alternate tional game," . said Phelps. gotten to them was mentally,'' (Oiando) Woolridse. (Gilbert) "We've carried it straight added Phelps. "And that's Salinas, and (Ttm) Andree through from our summer trip what we did. They have too against him, so we has 15 foul!; to Yugoslavia. And I've learn­much size and talent, so the to use up. I think we did a ed some things from P.laying only way to beat them is with pretty good job in containing international rules, just like I've your heads." him tonight. learned little tricks from AI 
Junior Notre Dame forward "Offensively, -we wanted to McGuire. 
Kelly Tripucka headed the Irish put Tri1.mcka outside to bring ''All you have to. do is just turnaround with a sparkling their btg men out and give walk out on the court whenever 3~-poinr performance (23 points Kelly -the shot. Obviously this you think you have to give your in second half). And it was the proved effective. We were players a rest." Kelly TnjJUcka drives for two ofhis game-high 3.5 points, as All-American's perimeter ready to shoot over the big ] ust like General Patton would the Insh defeated the Soviets, 86-76, las night at the ACC. 
shooting that helped the fifth­peopk. We have been shooting have done. !Photo by Doug Chn.stian]. ranked Irish pull to within two, over brooms all week.'' 38-36, at the half and outscore While the Irish only shot 37. 8 the Russians 16-6 in the first percent from the field in the five minutes of the second contest, four Rich Branning stanza. steals and three each by Wool­
leers battle Michigan State
"Bobby Knight said that I ridge and guard Bill Hanzlik didn't make the Pan American enabled:the Irish to retain pos­
b_ vBrian Beglane work on this week in practice-­week nominee, posted his first team because I didn't shoot session quite often in the Sports U'/n'ter but there were some encourag­career hat trick .Saturday nightwell,'' offered Tripucka. second half. 
The Norre Dame hockey team, ing signs also. while totalling three goals and"Well, I ho}>e Bobby was But it was the 27-14 second­tied for fourth in the Western three assists for the weekend.
watching tonight. half rebounding advantage-­
Collegiate Hockey Association "We let ourselves fall behind Seniors Tom Michalek and after a split with top-ranked 3-0 in the early going, but I was Greg Meredith also has six­Michigan last wee, completes w encouraged to see the way we point weekends. two-week home stand this fought !Jack. Then, when we Ted Weltzin suffered a strain­
weekend when it plays host to built up a 10-6 lead, we fell ed shoulder Friday night and another rival from the Great apart defensively for a while was forced to miss Saturday'sLakes State, the Spartans of game. He is questionable for 
Crotty named soccer MVP 
by Frank LaGrotta "Tommy has contributed to and let Michigan come to within
Michigan State. F aceoff both this week's series with the
Sports Wn'ter the Notre Dame soccer program one goal. We could have folded 
nights at the Athletic and Spartans. Sophomore ] eff Lo­
since he was a freshman,'' cited then, also, but we held on for
Tom Crotty was named the Convocation Center is schedul­gan also remains a question
Hunter, "and he certainly. de­the win. That has to be a
1979 Notre Dame soccer team's ed for 8:00p.m. mark with his stomach muscle
serves this honor.'' valuable lesson for our club."
most valuable player at the The Irish post a 3-3 WCHA problems. He has not played in 
In an emotional moment, Crot­Junior Kevin Humphreys,
squad's annual banquet held record (4-3 overall) after their a league game this year.
ty thanked his teammates, Notre Dame's player of the
Wednesday night at the South split with the first-place Wol­
coaches and friends for the
Bend American Legion Hall. verines. Michigan State, play­
award and concluded that, "the
The senior co-captain, who ing on the road for the second
trophies and plaques don't
starred at the up-sweeper posi­consecutive time this weekend,
really matter--I feel lucky just to 
tio)1 for the Irish, was a defen­also was a winner and loser last IH.finalfeatures rematch
have known you great people."
sive stalwart for Coach Rich week. The Spartans took a 5-4
Crotty's award was the hish­
Hunter's team and received the overtime dectsion at Michigan by Chns Needles de trouble last week with Holy
light of the program whtch
award through a vote of his Tech before losing 6-2 the Sports Writer Cross, 18-0, as senior Jack 
teammates. [continued on page 2I] 
following night. Michigan McCarthy scored two touch­State is tied for eighth/lace in In a rematch of two South downs on a pair of three yard the WCHA with a 2-league Quad rivals in this Sunday's runs. Dillon coach Jerry record. interhall footbal championship, Bridges expects a much tough­
''We got a preview of what defending champion Dillon er battle from Morrissey than Michigan State is like when we takes on Morrissey at Cartier Stanford gave his team last scrimmaged against them back Field. week. "They're a hard-hitting 
<. 
in early October," notes Irish Earlier this season, Dillon football team," he commented. coach Lefty Smith. "They defeated Morrissey, 14-0. But ''They're a little bigger than forecheck well and can skate Morrissey coach Dan Buckley Stanford was also. They ought well also. Ron Mason is an hopes that the final game will to give us a good game. '' outstanding young coach and be a different story. "We're Each team is hampered with his teams are always strong 'glad and excited that we have a injuries to key players. Dillon 
fundamentally.'' second chance against them,'' quarterback Brian Crowley will 
Offensively the Spartans are he stated. "And hope to take miss the final game because of led by Leo Lynett, who posts advantage of that chance on a knee iJ:Jjury suffered against nine ~oals and seven assists for Sunday." Stanford. 16 pomts in WCHA play. He is Both squads advanced to the Morrissey's middle linebacker the second leading scorer in the championship round with shut­Mike Binkle and wingback Pete 
league, behind Murray Eaves out victories m semi-final action Raphael will sit out the contest of Michigan. Russ Welch has last Sunday. Dillon manhand­with injuries suffered a few eight goals and six assists in led North Quad champion Stan­weeks ago. Coach Buckley, 
WCHA play. ford, 26-0. The Big Red utilized however,.ts confident that their 
"To say the least," offered the big/lay effectively against replacement will perform ade­Smith, "that 11-9 victory was Stanfor , using a 66-yard run quately. not the most gracious way to from scrimmage and a 57-yard Mark Masca, who replaced win a game. We experienced pass'Completion to set up two Crowley in the fourth quarter some defensive lapses--that is short touchdown runs. 
[continued on page 20]
something we must continue to Meanwhile, Morrissey has lit­


L_ 





