~--------------------~----~~---------------------------------­
Bringing up children -page 6
' ' ' 

VOL. XIII, NO. 76 ~ an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's .MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1979 


O'Meara collllllents on college survey 
Ray McGrath Senior StaffReporter 
In a recent survey conducted by the Exxon Educational Foun­dation and published in the • November 1978 issue of Ch_ange magazine, the University of Notre Dame was not menttoned as being amon~ the nation's 10 leading academtc institutions. 
In the article entitled "Leader­ship Among American Col­leges," the author, Richard ) ohnson, reports that ''when asked which mstitutions have the most influence nationally, 84 percent of the references (550 college presidents and academic deans) agreed on a group of 10 institutions.'' 
The "leading" institutions named, in alphabetical order, are Columbia, Harvard, MIT, Princeton, Stanford, the Univers­iry of California at Berkeley, the Universiry of California at Los An~eles, the University of Chtcago, the University of Michigan and Yale. 
According to Johnson, at lease three sense of "leadership" are considered in the survey's find­ings. They are "(1) prestige--the degree to which an mstitution is looked up to or admired; (2) innovation--the frequency with which an institution is ftrst in generating new ideas or prp­grams; (3) influence--the degree to which other institutions follow the leading institution's exam­ple." 
0. Timothy O'Meara, Univers­iry provost, commented last Friday on the view that the Universiry takes toward surveys such as that published 10 Change. According to O'Meara, ftndi~g~ such as these are not surpnsmg. 
O'Meara pointed out that each of the 10 "top" schools have prestigious backrounds and large ftnanctal bases upon which they can ~row. ''The longstanding traditton, the resources of older and state schools, and the fact that each of the schools named are noted as research universi­ties, hel_Ps them attain a lot of recognitton," O'Meara said. 
The provost pointed out that since World War II, Notre Dame has, under Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, pursued a course toward becoming a "true uni­versiry." Under Hesburgh, according to O'Meara, the Uni­versiry has strived to acquire "high qualiry professors, hi~h qualiry students and high quahry research." 
"Everything we do here should be worthwhile," he added. 
Approachin~ the report more speciftcally, 0 Meara J;X>inted out that the 10 universittes named are obviously a fme group. They have, he srud, "contributed in a singular way to the development of new ideas, and discoveries in science and technology. '' For example, the University of Chicago has been very important in the development of nuclear energy. 
O'Meara also noted that a 
(continued on page 3) 



_Iran plans to cut oil production 
In record year 

Postal Service escapes deficit 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Postal Service may finally be headed for its first year in the black after failing throughout the 1970s to achieve its goal of eliminating deficits. 
''This year, we have our best shot to accomplish the major purpose of living within our income,'' ~osull;aster General William F. Bolger said in a mtervtew. 
Bolger said the cur.rent projection is for a $180 million surplus for the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30. 
When Congress voted in 1970 to abolish the Post Office Department and establish the Postal Service in its place, one of the major goals was to have a mail system that would break even financially. 
The new a~ency was organized like a business corporation m the hope that "business-like" management could make the new agency work more efficiently than its politics-laden predecessor. 
However, the U.S. mail has been run at a deficit ever since. In the mid-1970s the red ink was coming to about $1 billion per year and there was serious talk about the Postal Service becoming insolvent. That was avoided only by heavy borrowings from the U.S. Treasury. 
The deficit has been reduced substantially in each ofthe last two years and some of the old debts have been paid off. Borger said the ftrst surplus in the history of the Postal Service is now in sight because of higher mail volume combined with last year's rate increase. 

The number of pieces of mail set a record of nearly 97 billion last year and Bolger said the figure will be about 99 billion this year. 
Meanwhile, the rate increase that took effect last May 29 will be in effect for all of the current fiscal year, meaning extra revenue throughout this year for the mail a_gency. 
Bolger said the next rate increase will not be needed until around the spring of 1981. Asked how much that increase will be, Bolger said: "I have no idea. We haven't even started to put together the documentation for that.'' 
Inflation could hasten the rate increase, he said. "Every $200 million in additional expenses we incur means that the rate increase will have to be one month sooner," he said. 
Bolger also said Saturday mail delivery would continue indefinitely. The Postal Service had considered eliminating such deliveries. 
economics adviser to Khomeiru, spoke with a small group of reporters in his home. 
He said he favors a new economic system for Iran that would be "neither capitalist nor Marxist, nor a combination of the two." He also said a new Iranian government would have the right to cancel foreign debts incurred by previous governments. 
Khomeini has n~t yet indicated who would design the economic system of the ''Islamic republic'' he wants to create in Iran, and Bani-Sadr stressed that he is not sure he will get the job. But Bani-Sadr, son of a Moslem priest and holder of degrees in economics and sociology, is con­sidered a close consultant to the 78-year-old religious leader on issues of economic policy. 
A member ofKhomeini's Paris entourage, he returned to Iran with the ayatollah last week. 
"I favor decreasin~ oil produc­tion because part of tt isn t really for people:s consumption but just for building up reserves. Forry percent of present produc­tion would be enough for present needs," he said. 
Before Iranian oil workers went on strike in support of Khomeini last October and cut off the nation''s oil exports, Iran pro­duced about 6 million barrels of crude oil per day. A 60 percent cut would slash daily output to 
2.4 million barrels. 
[continued on page 4] 


Rep. Flood earns mistrial 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Re~. Daniel J. Flood, saying he ts innocent, has expressed regret that his bribery and perjury trial ended in a mistrial, apparently caused by one holdout among the jurors. 
"I maintain my innocence of any wrongdoing m the char,ges that were considered agrunst me," the 75-year-old Pennsyl­vania Democrat said Saturday night after the deadlocked fed­eral jury of eight men and four women was dismissed, ending nearly three days of delibera­tions. 
Juror Johnnie Lyles said the panel was 11 to 1 for conviction on six of the seven counts and that "it was just a contrary old man who held out on every­thing ... he didn't want evidence, he wouldn't hear anything we had to say." 
Assistant U.S. Attorney David Hinden of Los Angeles, one of the three government prosecu­tors, refused to speculate over whether the congressman would be tried asaifl. 
' 'That ts up to the ) ustice Department," he said, adding that one factor would be how and why the jurors were split and what problems they found in the government's case. 
Axel Kleiboenier, Flood's lawyer, also expressed disap­pointment. He srud the congress­man had spent more that $100,000 defending himself. 
Flood was charged with one count of conspiracy in a scheme to collect payoffs for eolitical favors, seven counts of bnbery in receiving about $50,000 in· a six-year period and three counts of lying under oath that he ever got any such illegal cash. 
Mrs. Lyles said the panel never did get to vote on the charges of conspiracy and making false dec­laratton because of the lone holdout for acquittal whom she declined to identify. 
Mrs. Lyles quoted the holdout as saying: "I know he's guilty on some of the charges, but I'll never vote to send an old man to jail. .. 
U.S. District Judge Oliver, Gasch pressed the jury again and again, over defense objections, to try to return at least a partial verdict on one or more counts, one way or another. They went back and tried, but kept reporting deadlock. 
The government painted Flood as a crooked politician who conspired with his former admin­istrative assistant, Stephen1 B. Elko, to sell favors under the motto: "Get all you can get while you can get it." 
The defense pictured a frail, tired old man framed by an ex-employee who pocketed the bribes he claimed to deliver to the congressman. It claimed Flood was a frugal man who purchased a $25 or $50 savings bond every month since 1944 and had total assets of only $120,000 to show for his 35 years 'in public life. 

TAHRAN, Iran (AP) -An adviser to Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, providing clues to the possible future of this oil-rich nation's economy, said yesterdaY. that Iran should cut its oil production by as much as 60 percent and world petroleum 
le 
prices should be higher. 
Such moves by a Khomeini­guided government in Iran -now the world's No. 2 exporter of oil­could precipitate oil-supply problems among industrialized nations. 
Dr. Fazullah Bani-Sada, a key 
-



---------------------------------...-------------· News in brief 
Monday, February 5, 1979-page 2 
San Francisco Exanziner comments on Hearst case 
SAN FRANCISCO [API-The San Francisco Examiner marked the fifth anniversary o( Patricia Hearst's kidnapping yesterday with its first editorial on her experiences. The Examiner, which is owned by Miss Hearst's faterh, Randolph A. Hearst, said she ''paid an unjust price because of who she was -a child of affluence." The newspaper said it had avoided previous comment on Miss Hearst's Feb. 4, 1974, kidnapping by the Symbionese Liberation Anny, susbequent bank robbery conviction and imprisonment to avoid the impression of conflick of interest. Ms. Hearst, nearly 25, was released from federal prison Thrusday after Prestdent Carter commuted her seven-year bank robbery sentence. She had spent 23 months behind bars. 
Farmers arrive in capital seeking higher prices 
W ASfUNGTON (APJ-Thousands of farmers demonstrating for higher prices wtll steer their long "tractoi:cade" into the nation's capital today to get Congress' attention. A spokeswoman said the protest is not intended to tie up Washington traffic in a defiant gesture. "I really don't think he'U cause many problems," said Joyce Robinson, an American Agriculture movement delegate from Montana. Ms. Robinson said the farmers have come the Washington to lobby for full inplementation of the 1977 Farm Act which would likely raise their income. They say their long-range ~oal is ''full parity,'' which they say would give farmers purchasmg power similar to that of their forebears early in this century. 
Yale coeds demonstrate against Playboy Magazine 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. [AP]-About 25 women students from Yale University demonstrated at a hotel where a Playboy Magazine photographer has been recruiting Yale women to model for an upcoming issue. The women said Playboy exploits women and urged srudents to ignore the campaign. The Yale DailyNews haCl run ads for the talent hunt, but in an editorial urged women not to "play along." Some Ivy League srudent newspapers refused to run the ads. Photographer David Chan said he has received 102 applications from Yale srudents interested in posing for an issue on Ivy League women. 
Mysterious disease kills two more children in Italy 
NAPIES',Italy(APJ-Hospital officials reported yesterday that two more babtes died overnight of what doctors here call the "mysterr. disease," an unidentified virus that has killed 58 small children in this southern Italian city in 11 months. Officials at the Santobono Hospital said the latest victims here were an 11-month-old boy anti 9-month-old girl. Both showed the same symptoms found in the previous cases-vomiting and high fever. The disease attacks the respiratory systems of weak and usually under-fed infants, many of them from the city's slums. 


Weather 
Partly cloudy and very cold with a less than 20 percent chance for snow flurries. Becoming mosdy sunny in the afternoon. HiRhs in the low teens. Increasing cloudiness and cold at night. Low around 5. Chance for light snow tomorrow. High around 20. 


s 

4:15 pm--MEETING, amnesty international, LA FOR'f!JNE BAILR.OOM 
.. 
5:30pm--MEETING, french club, "gallette de rois "FACUL1Y DINING ROOM, SOU1H DINING HAIL ' . 
12 midnight--TilE ALBUM HOUR featuring"birth comes to us 
all'' by the good rats WSND 640am 
12:15 am--NOCTURNE NIGHfFUGHf, with rick lane, WSND-FM89 


Palmer House to host formal 
by Mary Massey  activities  and  a  "Guide  to  platters," Brehmer said, "and  
Chicago"  will  be distributed.  -'champagne will be on every table  
The Palmer House  in down­ The guide will be obtained from  during dinner."  
town Chicago will host this year's  Chicago's Chamber of Commerce  A wide variety_ of continuous  
Senior Foririal on April 21.  The  by the committee.  According to  music from  the  bands of Don  
Senior  Formal  Committee  has  Brehmer,  tentative  events  Carron and larry Brent will be  
decided that the srudents, rather  include Cub baseball and visits to  the entertainmenr from 8 p.m. 
than themselves, should choose  Butch  McGuire's  Bar  and  until2 a.m.  

this year's theme. 
Emerald Isle Bar. According to Brehmer, "WeA "Name that theme" contest The formal will begm officially (the Senior Formal Committee)begins today and will continue with a cocktail party on Sanirday. are trying to minimize costs, butthiough Wednesday. Entries will Entertainment will be provided we estimate that Saturday even­be accepted at the dining halls at by either aND or SMC pianist. ing's e~ense may be $40-45 perboth Notre Dame and Saint "An exclusive French dinner couple.' Brehmer attributes the Mary's. The srudent whose service found only at the increase from last year to thetheme is chosen will receive a $30 Waldod-Astoria in New York and French dinner service and infla­gift certificate from the at the Palmer House in Chicago, tion. However, Brehment esti­Moonraker restaurant. There will enhance the evening by mates that 1250 people willwill be no limit on the number of serving separate course on silve~ attend this event.
entries submitted by a srudent. In the event that several people , r----------------------"""'
submit the winning theme, the 
• 

winner will be chosen randomly. 
v 

Mamie Brehmer, ND co-chair­man and Kathy Shea, SMC 
PAUL GERNI

co-chairman, and their assistants · Julie Rittenhouse and Mary Acker, are planning events to 
World Trick Shot

extend throughout the entire weekend of die Senior Formal. 
Pool Champion

For the ftrst time. a booklet of 

f-The Observer_ 
wed., feb. 7th 

Night Editor: Scoop Sullivan Asst. Night Editor: jim 
two shows: 4&7 pm
R.Ndd, Mary Pat EJ/is Copy Reader: Debbie Dahrling 
In the bllllcud toom-Lafortune basement
Layout Staff: Ann McAuliffe, Rod Beard, 
FREE!
Margaret Kruse Editorial layout: Rosemary 
sponsored by S.U. social comm.
Mills 
Features Layout: Greg 
Hedges 
s. u. academic commission
Sports layout: Ray 0 'Brien Typists: Kim Convey, Beth 

presents:
Willard, Bill Swift, Rosie Rodgers Early Morning Typist: Kim Convey Day Editor: Kate Kilk.uskie Ad layout: joe Mltrphy·-­Matt "/was raped" Bastwa Photographer: john Macor 
The Observer {USPS 598 920] is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre•i!lame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year l$10 per semester! from The Observer. P.O. box Q, Notre Oame,lndiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
answers your questions 



tues feb. 6

GUADALAJARA SUMMER 

7:00pm SCHOOL 

washington hall 
University of Arizona offers more than 40 courses, i.e., anthropology, bilingual edu­


Engineering &Computer Sdence Majors cation, history, Spanish, etc. at Guadalajara, Mexico, July 2 ·August 10. Tuition: 
WATCH FOR THE 
$265. Board and room with 

HUGHES
Mexican family: $300. 
RECRUITER VISIDNG Write 
YOUR CAMPUS SOON. Guadalajara 
Contact your placement oftice

Summer School 
for interview elates.
Alumni 211 
MARDI GRAS DEALER SOIOOL 

University of Arizona 

Ir------------------,I
Tucson 85721
7:00 Grace 


l HUGHES:
7:45 Walsh/Sorin 

I I
(602) 626-4729 
..
8:30 Breen-Phillips 

L------------------~
c--..---lfifh~
9:15 Farley 
10:00 St. Ed's 

AN EQUAL OPPOinUMlY ENPI.OYEK M/F 

'' 

The Observer Monday, February 5, 1979 -page 3 

L I ..J 

In their continuous support the Irish fans gathered in the ACC to cheer their team to victory. [photo by john Macor] 








NDprofto serve on board 
by Laura Lan"more in human and medical research, StaffReporter so that they in turn can design and conduct locaJ and regional 

Dr. Harvey A. Bender, gen-educational pro~rams to develop etics professor at Notre Dame, a climate for mcreased citizen was recently chosen to serve on awareness of human genetics, the organizmg committee for the genetic diseases, and birth de­Indiana conference of the Center fects, creating a more human and for Education in Human and informed public policy. Medical Genetics. The confer-\ The Indiana conference, one of ence will be held May 4 in the Methodist Hospital m Indian­apolis. 
A medical

Co-sponsored by the Center, located in Boulder, CO, and the National Foundation--March of -genetics board ­Dimes, the conference will focus on the present potentials and future challenges for human gen-three regional conferences, is etics instruction. It is designed, being organized by a committee according to Bender, to reach the of 13 educators, scientists, and intermediaries, the secondary medical school representatives school, colle~e, and graduate from around the state. educators, 10 educattng the Bender stated that in terms of public about the impact of gen-literature published, publications etics research on society today. dealing with general science 
The conference will involve doubles every ten years, those these people in discussions of dealing with biology every 4-5 plans and priorities for education • years, but those dealing with 


Applications for SENIOR BAR Managers 
1979-80 can be picked up in Room 315, Dean of Students 
Office, after February 1. Applications are due February 9 with recommendations · 
So...PICK THEM UP EARLY! 


Iranian powrer·struggle heightens 
1EHRAN, Iran (AP) -P'rime Minister Shahpour Bakhtiar said . yesterday he would not oppose : the creation of a "shadow" government by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, but he 
' warned he was prepared to ''answer Molotov cocktail for Molotov cocktail' ' if his foes resort to force. 
• • . Survey 
[continued from page 1) 
number of fine schools, such as Brown, Cornell, Duke, Rice and Northwestern are not to be found in the list published in Change. 
Should Notre Dame conscious­ly try to ~o after a top-10 academic ratmg? O'Meara states taht the acqwsition of such a rating for the University is "not our mission in life. '' 
"It could encourage us," said O'Meara. "We can be consciou of it, but we should not have the attaining of an arbitrary rating as our J:>rimary purpose for what we are doin .'' 
"We s~ould do the best job we can in teachin~ and research, and if the recogninon comes, so much the better," concluded O'Meara. 
genetics double every 1-2 years. The conference will discuss the consequences of such a rapid proliferation of knowledge and how it affects society. 
Dr. Bender's present research is concerned wtth the develop­mental genetics of the female Drosophzla melanogaster, a species of fruit fly. He is also involved in the study of the impact of biology and science in general on society, especially biomedical legal ethics and their interrelations. He regards the legal ·code •as ~iety' s response to the problem and believes it is "the real way of palpating how 
society  is  responding''  to  the  
question.  
Bender  received  his  under­ 

graduate de~ree at Case Western Reserve Uruversity and graduate degrees from Northwestern Uni­versity. He has post-graduate expenence at the University of California (Berkeley), Purdue, California Institute ofTechnology and Yale University. 
Opposition sources said they ' expect Khomeini, who returned 
to Iran Thursday after forcing 
Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavt 
from the country, to designate 
the head of a "provisional 
government" within a week. 
Khomeini followers marched in 
several small, peaceful demon­
strations . yesterday in various 
parts-of Tehran. Some carried 
signs and shouted slogans warn­
ing of a "holy war" if the 
78-year-old Moslem religious 
leader is not allowed to establish 
an Islamic republic. 
The problems facing Bakhtiar, 
struggling to avoid a bloody showdown with Khomeini' s forces, were dramatized by troubles within his own office. Some 400 civil servants who work for the prime minister went , on strike to protest the army's slaying of more than 30 people last week in violent Tehran 
protests. 
A spokesman for the strikers 
said only Bakhtiar's chief of staff 
and personal secretary remained 
on the job. 
In an interview with the Tehran 
daily newspaper Ettelaat, 
Bakhtiar likened a Khomeini­
appointed ~overnment with a 
European 'shadow Cabinet" 
named by opposition parties 
waiting in the wings to take 
power. 
''Many (opposition) political 
parties~ progr<;5sive, de.n:tocrat­
tc countries destgnate therr own 
Anyone interested in the position of 

Observer Editor-in -Chief for the 1979-80 school year should contact Tony Pace 
by Friday, Feb. 9th call 8661 or 7471 
·announctnq th€ (jRanb 0J)€Tltnq o~ 

THE YELLOW SUBMARINE 
'a great taste sensation' 
foot regular long 

HAM.............................. 1.60 2.30 SALAMI.......................... 1.45 2.10 SPICED LOAF.................. 1.35 1.90 COMBO CtJfS .... 1. 55 2.20
00 00 00 
........ 

ROAST BEEF................... 1.70 2.50 CORNED BEEF................ 1.85 2.75 MEATBALI....................... 1.40 2.10 PIZZA............................. 1.40 2.10 
SUPER-SUB "SPECIAL".... 2.95 t-----------------------·---· 
• ALL SANDWICHES SERVED HOT OR COIJ) AND INCLUDE: CHEESE, LETTUCE, TOMATO. 
SWEETONION, MUSTARD AND YEllOW SUBMAHlNE DRESSING! 
open Fri &Sat til 1 am phone in order in _advance for Quik Pik-Up Service 

call 272-4453 
181 09 state rd. 2 3 (across from fat wally's) 
r.rime minister," Bakhtiar said. 
'·But if this prime minister-des­ignate starts creating disorders and riots and wants to interfere with the legal order of the country, I will arrest him." 
The prime minister told the Associated Press in a telephone interview: ''I will keep the door open for negotiations (with Khomeini) and a peaceful solu­tion. But I will answer Molotov 1=ocktail with Molotov cocktail.'' 
SU schedules oriental art expo, sale 
A special exhibition and sale of Original Orit'ntal Art will be presented in LaFortune today from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. and tomorrow from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The Notre Dame Student Union Services Commission is sponsor­ing the sale. 
Marson Ltd. of Baltimore is presenting the exhibition of approximately 500 pieces from ) aRan, China, India, Tibet, ·Nepal ano Thailand. The oldest prints date back to the eighteenth and ninetet"nth centuries. Modem work is also included. 
A representative will be present to answer questionsabout the work, artists, and the various graphic techniques employed. 
The Observer ~ Monday, February 5, 1979-page 4 


Neighborhood Study Program needs ND -SMC student volunteers to tutor grade school children at the following times: mw 12:45-2:05 mw 2:15-3:15 
• mw 3:45-5:15 tt 1:15-2:45 tt 6:45-8:15 thURS 5:45-7:15 (qtRls only) 
•All times include al?proximately 1 hour of tutoring 
:and transponation tune from ND-SMC to tutoring center and back. 
•All transponation is provided free. 

•Tut~ring is one-on-one in simple math, spelling, or ' reading. If Interested, please call 
ffilke Scanlon 1762 Judy Cole Sue Claus 4-1-4691 



michQel:~&co. 

Hair Concepts 

'Hair designs for Men & Women, with the emphasis on Easy Care' open late tues.-thurs. 8pm North 1h mile east of notre dame 18381 Edison at lnd 23 272-7222 South 2041 E.lreland at Ironwood master charge visa 291-1001 

BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP)-Pale­were wounded in the southern stinian guerrillas fought a bloody Lebanon clash Saturday, U.N. battle with a unit of United officials reponed. Nations soldiers from Fiji be­The Popular Front for the cause the Fijians "executed" one Liberation of Palestine said one 
of their guerrilla comrades, a of its fighters was killed and six 
radical Palestinian group said others were wounded in the gun yesterday. battle, which reportedly occurred near Qana, five mile southeast cf 
Two Fijian soldiers were killed Tyre.and four Norwegian soldiers died in a helicopter crash as they tried The six deaths represented the to rescue two other ~ijians who highest single casualy toll yet 
The spirit ofthe Dome andSacred Heart is able to shine through the most adverse weather. [photo by]ohn Macor] 
•






com1ng... 
WELCOME TO THE JOB MARHET 
What's your best bet in today's marketplace? What can you expect from your first job? Need it be a nine­
.· to-five one? These and many other questions related to entering the job market will be discussed in this issue of "lnsider'~the free supplement to your college newspaper from Ford. 
Ford hopes these tips about what awaits yo·u in the job market will help you start your career off on the right track. And if you're in the market for a 
;.I new car or truck, we also hope yo(J'II check out the great lineup of '79 Fords. 
Look for "lnsider''-­Ford's continuing series of college newspaper supplements. 
s 



Guerrillas fight UN soldiers 
FORD 

FORD DIVISION ~ 
suffered l:iy the 5,000-man Interim force in Lebanon since it arrived last spring after an Israeli invasion aimed at wiping out Palestinian bases near the Israeli border. 
A statement by the PFLP, a Marxist group, said one of its fi~hters was kidnapped by the Ftjians, taken to their head­quarters in Qana and "executed at the entrance of the Qana barracks.'' 
. Iran 

[continuedfrom page 1) 
Iran uses an average of750,ooo barrels of its own oil daily for internal needs and the rest is exported. About 15 percent goes to the United States. 
Bani-Sadr said world oil prices should be newly defmed in terms of the cost of industrial goods that oil-producing coun­tries buy from developed nations, an idea often advanced by OPEC oil officials but never put into effect systematically. 
The Organization of Petroleum Exponing Countries voted last December to raise the standard world crude-oil price by 14.5 percent in the course of this year to $14.54 a barrel. Bani-Sadr said that if oil prices were recalculated as he recom­mended, {>rices would ''certain­ly'' be higher than the latest OPEC levels. 
Buddy Rich. plans concert 
Buddy Rich and the Buddy 

Rich Orchestra will present a 
concen tonight at 5 p.m. at 
Marian High School in 
Mishawaka. Marian High School 'is located at 1311 S. Logan St .. 
The concen will also feature 

Steve Marcus, tenor -sax; Dave 
S~ohl, trumpet; and Barry Kiner, 
p1ano. 
Tickets are available from any 

student in the Marian High 
Music Depanment or by calling 
Marian at 259-5257. Tickets will 
also be available at the door. 
f -;;;., pcuk p~~to ... 

8Est ?R.iOES FOR YQPR 
#.i &~~iWiPJckos 
·. ~LlCATION PI:I()TOS . ~<;lt.\TION:PijQIDS ~GSPECll\LS t43.t~sUAwAI<A;aV1!;.. 
·..··.· >t SOtrniBENt>•··.•··· .. 


· raii.aasl\ 

-······························ 
The Designers at 



cos1mo's 
Rose, Connie, and Sally-. 

can be trusted 
to design your hair to 
fit your personal need. 
please call for an appt. 

277-1875 
18461 st. rd,23 
.•...•....•...................•: 


----------~ 



r--"----------------­
The Observer 
Monday, February 5, 1979-page 5 


Iran rejects U.S. military aid 
WASHINGTON (AP) • Iran has Iranian officals and special Pen­aircraft; two Spruance class de­decided to cancel U.S. arms tagon envoy Erich von Marbod in stroyers; 16 RF-4E reconnais­talks that ended Saturday. Gen.
purchases worth billions of dol­sance planes-a variety of mis­
Roben Huyser, deputy chief of
lars and has asked the United siles; and armored and other 
U.S. forces in Europe, also took
States to reduce sharply its vehicles. 
part, sources said.
military advisory presence .tn the The sources said Iran asked that 
According to the sources,
country, informed sources said the American Military Advisory yesterday. ~reed-on U.S. reductions in Group "be reduced to 2~0 peo~leforeign military sales to Iran
''The total figure of the reduc­and also requested a maJor 
include 160 F-16 fighter planes; cutback in contract follow-on
tion may reach $7 billion," a 
seven radar-equipped Airborne
source said. suppon."
Warning and Control System
Under the Shah of Iran, the 
Tehran government bought or 
~
agreed to buy about $20 billion in 
U.S. military equipment, trainig 
The ND Student Players or construcuon. About $8 billion worth already has been deliv­ered. 
announce tryouts for 
A reduction of about $7 billion would wipe out much of the projected sales targeted for de­

~OOUBL£~~)
livery over the next several years. 
The cutbacks requested by the embattled civilian government left in charge after the shah's 
EXPOSlij:departure Jan. 16 reflect a changed pofitical climate as well 
A comedy by Jack Sharkey
as questions about Iran's future military posture in the strategic Persian Gulf area. 
Tues. and Wed., Feb. 6-7 7:00pm
The reductions are "to start immediately,'' a source said, 
basement of LaFortune
adding they were worked out by 

Corporation makes pledge 
Acme Die Casting Corporation, a manufacturer of zmc and aluminum die castings in Racine, WI, has made a $100,000 com­mitment to the Campaign for Notre Dame, according to Uni­versity President Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
More than $109 million has been obtained in gifts and pledges since the $130 million Camraign was announced in Apri 1977, with its principal objective increasing the Univer­sity's endowmr.,t. 
Council begins search 
Applications for the position of 
Judtctal Coordinator will be avail­
able at the Srudent Government 
secretary's desk on the second 
floor of Laforrune beginning 
today. lbe deadline for all 
candidates to return their com­
pleted applications to the Student 
Government office is 5 p.m. on 
Friday, Feb. 23. 
'The Council requests that all applicants confirm their candi­dacy by visiting or calling the judicial Office (6413) by 5 p.m. on Friday, March 2. This is due to RA selections and srudent government elections that may alter the field of candidates. 
Once the number of candidates is narrowed to five, candidates will address the general public in a meeting hosted by the Judicial Council on March 8. The Council members will then choose the Judicial Coordinator by a simple maj'ority vote. 
udicial Coordinator duties, according to the Srudent Govern­ment Constitution, fall into four main categories: chair the 
Judicial Council, coordinate the proper operation of hall j-boards, asstst srudents accused of vio­lating a University rule or regula­tion, serve as a member of the Student Government Board of Commissioners. Any undergrad­uate may apply for the ~iton. 
For funher information, call Jayne Rizzo (6413, 7961) or Kristin Quann (6413, 1343). 
Bill Cosby tells why Red Cross needs your type of blood. 

' 1Every day of the week, job. That's right, five percent there's somebody who needs of the people give 100 percent your type of blood. of the blood that's donated. 
"But the thing about blood "Ifyou're between 17 and is: it doesn't keep very long. 66, and generally healthy. you Which means we've got to can help change all that. And keep the supply coming con­your one blood donation can stantly. Donors are needed . help up tofive people to live. every day. "Call your Red Cross Blood 
"Sorry to say, there are Center and make a donor ne 1er enou~h donors. appointment soon. It's one way ''In fact, five people out of· you can help keep Red Cross evny 100 are doing the whole ready ... to help others." 

Keep Red Cross ready. 








Editorials 
Monday, February 5, 1979-page 6 
P. 0. Box Q 
a female, Notre Dame student most accessible art form as well with a class at a professor's. as acrowd-pleaser. And only at aSecurity policy house on Napoleon, and I was &rial Concerns school, it seems1 can £lliris be afraid to wallt alone in the dark Qresented with auns not strictly 
a refused me. AtfJ.CSt, I thought he running series. A well-directed 
needs review and would like a ride--he rudely series appreciated fmancial in mind, in long­
series would show a wide variety 
didn't understand my request, so 

Dear Editor: I again said that I was concerned Dear Editor: offllms: ones of a topical nature, for my personal safety, that the such as Social Concerns did, 
I would like to I would like to thank the Social foreign fllms, genre studies and
recount an drive would take only three· indicent involving m~lf and minutes, and that I was unable to Concerns group for the recent the like. A series can presentNotte Dame Secunty, and offer a fmd another classmate to go movie series. TheY. brought_ in movies with a view to educating 
would, several good f1lms which I hadn't entertaining
suggestion which I with. To this the guard replied, as well .as the 
belive, increase the efficiency of "Take a taxi." had the Chance to see previously. audience. 
the Security force. I realize that escorting This type of presentation There have been several f1lms One Wednesday night in early students off-campus is not part of brings to light a problem which brought in this year by individual December, I was preparil!g for a Security's job, 6ut under these this campus suffers from: there g!Oups. Because of their fman­class which met at my professor's circumstances I think it should is no long-running fllm. series. cial positions though they have home on Napoleon Street, when I be. I was not asking them to take From what I gather (I wasn't a had to stick to very popular f1lms remembered that I had been me to Corby' s1 or even a long student here) the established and can't expenment or take 
unable to contact my usual ride.­distance. When a student must series was terminated last year. risks by rentmg any f1lm that At fJ.CSt, this was of little concern travel off-campus to a class, it It's too bad as I had heard that in isn't a sure bet to pay for itself. as I thought I'd just make the seems that Security is obliged as years past Notre Dame has had a Hence f1lms are eValuated not in 
fifteen minute trip on foot. But part of its job, to see that the very good one. It is hard to terms of their own merit but in upon recalling die assault that student amves safely. I would believe that it is impossible terms of their ability to draw had occurred at St. Mary's the suggest that Security carefully financially; most every school people. 
J:>revious Saturday momin_g, and think over its present policy. seems to be able to support one Notte Dame is badly in need of that it was dark outside, I decided By the way, I walked to class. and I fmd it disappointmg that a forms of entertainment. to call Security. university as large and seemingly 
From the size of the audiences 
When I explained the situation affiuent as this one isn't able to. this past week (Grapes of Wrath
Susan E. Callan 

to the Secunty guard--that I was Movies are a great thing, the ftlled the Engineering auditorium 
completely) it is obvious that 
there are many people who enjoy 
going to the movies. It's a pity 
that a ftlm series can't be 
maintained.

Bringing up childrerz. 
james Donovan 

The recent Q.C rejection of the proposal to The Administration forgets that all of us have consider the revamping of the parietals system has been brought up according to certain moral resulted in the students ofat least one resident hall standards, and have been exposed to these voting to abolish parietals. At issue here, however, standards for so long that they_are second nature to is no~ r;nerely ~e parietals_ system; at i~sue i~ the us. It presumes to set itself up and correct our Administration s policy ofzn loco parentzs. Panetals r,arents mistakes by teachiilg us its own are an instrument of enforcing this policy. 'morality." It refuses to believe that any students 
Parents who are dedicated to bringmg up a are mature enough to make theit own decisions; it well-rounded, emotionally healthy, and physically ass~es that once we are away from our parents sound offspring, parents with whom the welfare of we will no longer abide by their teachings. This is 
their child is of primal importance, in short, the an outright insult to my parents, as well as myself. best kinds of t>arents, act in several modes in One of the best things that university life has to bringing up thetr children. One such mode is that offer is the maturing experience of being away of protectmg the child from physical harm. from home and forcing the student assume 
Another is that of providing an atmosphere responsibility and independence. By denying the 
conducive.to a heal~y pshychological and 7motion­Notte Dame student this invaluable experience, 
al growth 10 the child. Yet another mode ts that of' the Administration has corrupted whole
our the censor, one who decides for the child what is university. The root of this corruption is the t>Olicy good or evil, and according denies the child ofin loco parentis. Ifthe Administration is gomg to 
certain things while granting others. All of the be our parents away from home, then we should 
modes of parental action are motivated by, receive all of the benefits of the parent/ child 
hopefully, a real love for the child, and the parents relationship. The way the policy is enforced now, 
attempt to make this love motivation evident to the however, we are subjected only to unreasonable 
censure. Even better would be the total abolitionchild. 
In setting itself up as our parents away from of this policy, whereby Notre Dame would join the 
home, the A~sttation has, however, acted to ranks of those certainly "better" universities 
the exclusion ofall but one of the parental modes. w~ch offer more than a purely academic edu­
This mode is that of the censor. The Administra­
canon. tion is quick to deny students that which it The in . loco parentis policy, as enforced 
considers detrimental to the maintenance of a presently, is unacceptable. When the Administra­healthy style of campus living. No doubt it would tion recognizes that one does not have a university profess to be concerned with the students' moral without students, then perhaps it will also development. ·In neglecting the other modes of recognize the necessity of a healthy campus 

DOONESBURY 


parental action, however, the Administration has atmosphere, and will honestly attempt to provide undermined the validity of its own policy of in loco such. One way ofdoing so would be to round out in 
parentis. loco parentis, and provide also the bene/its of the There is no evidence of any concern for the other parent/child relationship, as ·well as the denials 
aspects of the students' growth. Contrary to mherent in the situation. A far better way, providing a healthy atmosphere on campus, the however, would be to abolish, once and for all the Administration has created an atmosphere of policy of in loco parentis, and thereby recognize suspicion and distrust. Rather than attempting to the students of Notre Dame, as their parents alter the. social abnormalities it has created, the already have, as developing young adults rather Adminisrration seems bent only on defending its than misbehaving children. image, and has thus erected a monument to rr-oressiveness and stagnation. There is no The University rules set few limits on student concern for the emotional and psychological beh_ayior precisely because there are more development of students; no concern for personal­postnve reasons for most students to do that ity development through normal interaction with themselves. (preamble to University Rules and the opposite sex; indeed, not even any concern for Regulations, duLac, p. 29.) the most basic parent/child relationship, the assurance of safety from physical harm. The I fully agree with the spirit of this statement. I recent off-campus shooting was surely one of the am, however, still waiting for the Administration to 
make this spirit a reality.
most blatant, appalling, and d~plorable manifesta­tions of this unconcern. Off-Campus Housing commented on this incident--"There's really DavidPerry nothing we can do, other than warn the students.,., 
by Garry Trudeau 
"THE LIBEI?AL CULT: 
Tfi/?I:AT fRIJM TH/3 Lf3FT!'' 

either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD 
reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief_ ...........Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Spons Editor ............ Ray 0 'Bn·en Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor ......... (/ms Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Langhenry Photo Editor .......... ,Doug Chnstian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mills per published by students of the Colurrm space is available to all mem· Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cackl_e1 Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Saint Mary's Editof' ...... FJien Buddy Business Manager ........ john Tucker Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor ..... _........ Ann Gales Advenising Manager ........ Bob Rudy 
reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 
_The Observer_ of 

, 
·I 
1 
J 
1 


Features 
Monday, February 5, 1979-page 7 
the nation, but gee whillikers, 'I'm

The Good life at Notre Dame 
getting disillusioned. Why, just this morning at breakfast I told some people IJoe Ryan ·don't even know that the entire sports program is going straight downhill. The
So you want to write an article for the course about Freshman Seminar. Rather body, and what-all's going on in their Observer, eh? Well, then, you'll need than expound worship for it, a simple personal lives. So naturally I love to complete statisncs of Notre Dame sports 
history that I've memorized proves it.
some subject matter to ceally sink you quote about knowled2:e itself from my ~sip, and this love is returned by many teeth into. Before you do, though, Seminar text, A Chi/J is Being Beaten, of my friends. Well, you would not One time in 1949, the student body remember some important points. says it all: believe some of the stones I've heard-­cheered for 8:07 without stopping. 
Total seriousness and fifty-cent they're enough to make my blood run Wowee, I wish I could have seen that. It wordage ace just about all you need to 'The individual who is known about by colder than a well-digger's hind-pacts, must have been really neat. These days, get heads nodding furiously. (Putting others may or may not know that he is I'll tell you that much. Supposed!)' this I'm usually the only person around me 
known about by them; they in tum may who wears a Notre Dame rugby shirt,
sentences' subjects where nobody can one fellow, Natan Lower (but I'll call him 
or may not know that he knows or
find them helps, too.) alas, a sweeping ] ohn) met a Sophomore SMC chick at a Notre Dame sneakes, a Notre Dame tan1 
doesn't know of their knowing about and matching pennants and bumper
generalization at the end of your article party, and talked her into corning up to
him. Further, while believing that they stickers all over my body. Sometimes I 
will do wonders to get your point across. his room to hear the 'weird' dial tone on
do not know about him, nonetheless he even paint my face green and try to get
But if you do nothing else, remember the his phone. Next morning she gave birth 
rule all can never be sure. Also, if he knows to twins. in fights, but I'm the only one.
cardinal in student-written they know about him, he must, in some ''Another time, I heard about a party "Gollee, what ace we gonna do? Onearticles: COMPLAIN. If you complain measure at least, know about them; but ex-friend that I used to talk to told me
hard enough about anything, even about that was held not long ago on campus. 
gc:t if he does not know that thet know about was that he missed the Northwestern game 
all the fat on the steaks when we Everything going great until the 
him, he may or may not know about beer can out. The party over less than a because he had three term pa~rs and athem, somebody's going to agree wtth 
you. them in. regard to other matters.' half-hour later ... take-home test due the next day. I'm However, the key to wide-range "That's what it's all about. ''What am I sup{X>Sed to think when I really starting to wonder where our 
"Another facet of our academic life
brow-furrowing is appealing to one of overh~ac guys ge~mg the long-distance priorities lie around here, you know? 
that shocks and appalls me is the Gosh, I hope we do something about this
the three subjects so dear to our hearts tton from thetr parents, 'Is there a 
here at Dulac. a grading system. It goes totallr il.gainst problem at N.D.?' and the response situation, but I doubt if we will. 1ust
I'll give you short 

example of each. popular and accepted hearsay. hear far one at all, Mom, I can get whatever about everybody on the campus has been 
and wide that, in the case of females, the brought up spoiled and panty-waisted,
''Notre Dame, one of the leading I need.'? 
measurement of the hips is directly if there's material
academic universities in the nation. We "What I'm getting at is simply this: and no gain in 
proportional to the IQ. Why, then does tt supporting one of the teams, they'll have 
hear it all the time. Well, all I can say to every single student at ND and SMC is a 
seem like those with the lowest IQ's get nothin~ to do with it. I wish I was
that is hacdeehac-hac and II• --#&#f. perverted alcoholic drug-addict, which is 
the highest grades, especially where
Give me a break, will you? I came to a result of the moral and social dead.' . 
male l?rofs, 25-45 ace concerned? All I degeneration fostered by the Adminis­There--now you have the basic ele­N.D. with my head held high, my nose in know ts I've got a 33-inch waist, and it ments for writing a feature article. Get
the air; yes, I was going to get a Liberal tration." 
doesn't help. Doesn't that tell you
Arts education. But now all I can say is, "Boy, do I feel sorry for the athletes busy writing. (Suggested topic: Why
there's something with the system? around here. Notre Dame is to does it take six days to get the laundrysomebody wake me up from this bad 
"In closing, I'd just like to say that back
dream. There's a guy in my biology nothing can be done about theseclass trying to tell me what goes on problems, so I'm just goin~ to mopeinside of me. When I go out to live my aound for the rest of my -life. ' life, will it really matter what my I tried preaching this gospel topancreas does? No. (That reminds everyone I met on campus, but after I got me--a very effective device is to ask a pennied into my room a few times, Iquestion, then answer it yourself. This realized that my readers were ready towill let people know just where you move on to the second subject ofstand, and they'll respect you for it.) 
complaint--Notre Dame social life. 

ThankGodthere ace some classes that help me to make sense of this crazy, "I come from a rural area of the mixed-up world we live in. I'm talking of country, where everybody knows ~very-
The University of Jocksville ­
Men of the Mat . 
gene zychowtcz 
dreaded time when he must step on theWrestlers ace, by far, the most insane scale before his and the opponent'sathletes ever to walk the face of the coach in order to prove that he ha~earth. With the possible exception of malnourished and punished himselfRollerball, wrestling is the highest form enough. It usually looks like a clinic for of sado-masochism known to man. The rickets where everyone spits, pulls otltpain administered and received in the hair, or stands on their head to losecourse of a wrestling season is beyond those last ounces which may make thethe comprehension of most intellectually difference when the needle movesinclined people. The face ofany wrestler toward the desired weight. (Standing oncan attest to this statement. 
your head is usually good for theThe first plateau a wrestler must temporary loss of a quarter pound. Aachcive is the grueling task of getting in fact known only to wrestlers.) 
shape. This may entail running count­Mter weigh-in a wrestler, provided that less miles at any hour of the day or night he has "made weight", experiences
to improve the cardio-vascular system. Although wrestling is an indoor sport, it total ecstasy. A quick run to his locker 
and he finds the stockpile of food that he would be a safe assum('tion to say that has prepared. It usually consists ofthe majority of the ttme a wrestler 
spends is outside in the bitter cold, Twinkies, ice-cream, and pop, all gorged running in an average of three to five within minutes, for the pseudo­
physiological reason of ''quick energy''. 
layers of heavy clothtng unde.rneath a This energy is most assuredly usedfull set of vinyl sweats. This serves two quickly as the wrestler runs to the
purposes: first is that of getting in shape and the second and foremost is that of 
nearest car and drives to the closest Wendy's, McDonald's, or wholesale
losing weight. 
Many people lose weight for many barn food outlet. The ensuing satiating different reasons. Girls lose weight to feast may consist of two trifles, three 
frosties and a side order o chili and
slim their figure. Middle aged feople fries, after which all wrestlers oflose weight to lessen the risk o heart approximately 150 pounds and over go toattack. Religious fanatics lose weight to Baskin Robbin's for dessert.
find inner-peace. Wrestlers lose weight When this food-fest is over, an hour orbecause they're crazy. 
two of digestion takes place and theLosing weight is something that all wrestler finds himself ready to wrestle.
wrestlers take for granted. It is The wits of chess, the speed of fencing,understood that all of your opponents ace the grace of ballet and the infliction oflosing weight in order to acheive the 
a
same goal-to wrestle someone smaller disco dancing all combine to make 
wrestling match one of the most exciting than yourself and administer a pounding one on one events in the sporting world. 
to him. If everyone who wrestles loses a Unlike a team sport, any mistake madecomparable amount of weight, you end by a wrestler is highly magnified andup wrestling people who ace the same nobody but the individual wrestler canweight as you anyway. This may sound be held responsible. Conversely, when ainsane but it is done and it works. 
wrestler has succeeded in thoroughlyIn addition to increased physical pounding his opponent and the finalactivities, wrestlers lose weight through buzzer sounds there is nothing like thetheir food intake. A steady diet of ice experience of the referee raising yourcubes and unsalted lettuce usually hand for the final signserves the pu~ose. If this does not of victory. 
work, Ex-Lax wtll. 
There 1s also nothing quite like theAll this insanity occurs for one reason-­of getting to the john andto make your weight class the the digestive process which
prescribed time--weigh in. the · 
after we1'te:n-m. 


r
r 
The Observer Monday, February 5, 1979-page 8 
t 
-······························ 
: ~(., : Despite tight surveillance 
. . 
: ,...b ~-social commissions: Railroad remains dangerous 
~·

. . by the Associated Press· system. 
problems," said FRA's chief 
Despite more than a year of "They've gotten worse, if any~ counsel, Raymond K. James.
=~~ ptesent. : 
tight surveillance by federal thing. And our gang of lawyers :'The only ~~ left to us is ~o 
regulators, the Louisville & are working on some of the unpose restr1coons on certam
• Q • Nashville Railroad remains one of accidents,'' FRA stx>keswoman lines. " 
·thenacion's most accident prone Joanne Sloan said m an inter-Spen(.e said ''any order that lines. view. 
would prohibit carrying hazard­After a rash of serious derail-Richard Spence, president of ous material is simply incredible. 
:screw your roommate: ments and equipment failures L&N since September, insisted in Practically every line in the nearly a year ago that sent an interview that his railroad was system services hazardous
e =~D AGAIIl? e 
thousands fleeing from their making "substantial progress" material at one time or another." homes, the L&N had promised toward upgrading its track, loco­The L&N' s poor safety record• • the Federal Railroad · Admini-. motives and general mainte­first gained national attention las stracion in a confidential report nance. February, when 16 people were that it would upgrade its track, Nonetheless, from January to killed and 500 were evacuated
• • locorr otives and whatever else June of last year -the latest after a train carrying hazardous• • was necessary to cut one of the period for which ·aggregate cargo derailed near Waverly, 1N. worst accident records in the fi~es are available -the L&N's 
In fact, ir.tense federal scrutiny 
••• ••• industry safety record was the nation's had already begun four months But since then, as recently as worst, with accidents resulting in before, because the L&N's safetylast November and December in 16 deaths, 48 injuries, and 3,950 
record had been deteriorating. 

• • fact, L&N mishaps involving people evacuated. 
The FRA says about 60 percent
dang,:rous cargo have continued All told, the 6,500-mile rail­of the line's locomotives are not: valentine's patty : to cause the evacuation of road, which serves 10 states, had up to federal standards, about
• thousands of people.· 39 rail equipment accidents the same ratio as last May . And FRA officials, accusing involving hazardous cargo, Spence contends that only 150 of 
• 
~ nt mnrdi grns : the railroad of rating the quality placing it third worst among 33 thf L&N's 1,100 locomotives are of some of itstracktoo high, now railroads carrying such cargo. out of service. He says 130 new : 8:30-12:00 : 
say the agency may ban the "Our feeling is they're not locomotives have been ordered shipment of hazardous materials making any progress. I think and will begin arriving this on certain stretches of L&N's rail they're overwhelmed by their month. 
!ftee admission fot couples: 
: semi fotmal ptefetted :

• • Pennsylvanian loses house 
: live band 'DANCER' : 

can start making a better living, but before I know it, they ,try toDOYLESTOWN, Pa. (AP) -for Nov. 9, 1978, said Katherine 
Salvatore Veneziale thought the {lumby, deputy director of the get me out," Veneziale said. 
: doot pd.zes : County Tax Bureau was blUffing. tax office. 
His lawyer flied an objection toIt wasn't, and his $70,000 house She said a notice of the tax sale the sale Friday in Bucks County: kissing & dancing contests : was sold for $435.60 because he was posted on Veneziale's court.
owed $12.40 in real estate taxes. property last August and notices "He has a good chance of"I said it's got to be a bluff were sent to him in August and
•• tegulot motdi gtos good times and motel •• because all my bills are paid,'' September. A representative of getting the property back,'' said••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• said Veneziale, an Italian the tax office contacted Veneziale County Comssioner John T. immigrant who came to this a week before the sale, she Welsh, a real estate agent for 35 added. years. "I've seen rare occasions
country in 1960. 
where this has happened in the
Ch1ffi€S 

Six years ago, Veneziale, 37, Veneziale, who said he never past and the court has upset thewho o~;>erates a pizzeria in Phila­went beyond the fourth grade 
delphla, bought the three­and cannot read English, claims sale if he (Veneziale) pays costs. bedroom house on a one-acre lot it is all news to him. He said the 
now accepttnq manuscRipts 

That seems right . . . If he follows the normal routine he has
~OR. puBlicatiOn 

in suburban Bensalem Township, only notice he knew of was the Bucks County. 1977 billing, which his wife 
a good chance to win. It will cost "My house was paid off in signed for and apparently mis­a little money, but that's his
shoRt essays-poetRy-plays 
problem."

December 1977," he said in a placed. He said he did not find telephone interview from his out about that until after the 
{1ct1on~on ~JctJon-photoqnaphy 

home, which he refuses to leave. house was sold. But at the moment it does not "My mother's here, mj' wife is 
belong to him anymore, although here, I come home eve~' day. Cheerleaders local officials say he ''has a ~oOd We never see any posting," chance" of getting it back if he Veneziale said. 
-ant woRk o~ all k1n0s 
plan clinic
deadline March 14 

wants to pursue an expensive ''Sin'ie I never received any legal battle. other notice, I figured it was a 
A cheerleading clinic will be
all wonk susmtnE.b wtll B€ n€tunn€b 

Veneziale's troubles began in bluff," be said about the October held Saturday, Feb. 17 from 101977 when he built a two-story warning. "But Nov. 9, someone
c/o ma.x W€stl€n noom 303 mab€L€Va smc 
a.m. to noon at the ACC. 

garage, causing his county real from Area Homes (Inc.) calls me 
Any undergraduates interested estate tax to be increased by and tells me they sold my in trymg out for the cheerleading $12.40. house." squad should attend. Tryouts for 
OnJuly 9,1977, the county tax Area Homes purchased the the squad will be held shortlyoffice sent Veneziale a bill for the house for $435.60 as the only after spring break. additional tax by certified mail. bidder. If there are any questions, call After the $12.40 became over­"I pay off my mortage. Now I Phyllis Washington (2114) or due, a house sale was scheduled figure I got my house prud off, I Kevin Ryan(8540). 

The Observer 
SOPHOMORE, JUNIOR, AND SENIOR CI.tliS'EIECi70NPROCEDURES -MARCH 1979 
RuJ~ for sutdent class elections were released y~terday by Ombudsman Election OWrman Marc Woodward. There will be an informarional mttring for anybody interested in running for class officers on Monday, Feb. 19. 
Petitions may be picked up at lO p.m. on Sunday, Feb. 26 at a mandatory meeting in LaFortune. 
This is the ftrst yeat that Ombudsman is directing class elections. "Srudent Affairs and the Senior Oass officers usually direct them, but d~ Ombudsman election committee has more experience in running elections," Woodward said. 
The elections are being held three weeks eatlier than past years and according to Woodward, this is to "allow the officers more transition time and chances to participate in the Srudent Activities Leadership Workshops.'' 
Hall Judicial Board Chariman are reminded not to participate in any campaigns because they will be in charge of their hall ballot boxes. 
Anybody wishing further information on the election rules are urged to call Marc Woodward at.3407. 
1. 
Petitions may be picked up at a meeting at 10:00 P:m. Sunday February 26,1979 ;u the Student Govenunent Offices. One hundred (100) signatures are required before any ticket may have their names appeat on the ballot. Srudents may sign more than one petition; but only for their own class election. The ticket (President, Vice-President, Secretary, and Treasurer) will be given enought petitions to solicit 200 possible signatures. Only official petitions are allowed to be circulated. 

2. 
Each ticket must submit their platform stating something of what they hope to accomplish is elected. This must be turned in to the Srudent Activities Office by 5:00p.m. Thrusday, February 22, 1979. 

3. 
Signed petitions are due in the Ombudsman Office at 4:00 


p.m. Thursday, March 1, 1979. Petitions returned after this time will not be accepted. 
4. 
The ~-b_egins at 12:01 a.m. Friday, March 2, 1979, and runs till Midnight, Mon<!ar.. March 5, 1979. Campaigning is any public contact, ~pecially the distribution of posters, buttons, ribbons, etc., and the making of speeches, used to solicit ~. except in the distribution Of official petitions. 

5. 
The election will be held Tu~y. March 6, 1979. H more than two tickets run, the top two will have a runoff election on Thursday, March 8, 1979. 

6. 
Balloting will be as follows: 


For hall residents 11:30-1:00 and 5:00-6:30 For off campus residents (Huddle) 11:00-5 · 
7. 
To win the election, a ticket must receive 50% + 1 of the vote. 

8. 
No write-in ballots are allowed. Titere will be no YES/NO ballot, even if a ticket runs unopposed. 

9. 
A $50 limit on campaign expenses will be set for all tickets. Outside contributions count toward campaign expense limit . Receipts for all materials purchased are reqwred by the Election Committee. All receipts must be received by the committee before the distribution ofmaterials can begin. A copy ofany and all posters must be submitted to the Elecuon Committee before posting. These may be left in the Ombudsman Office. Posters may not be larger than 11 inches by 17 inches and they cannot be placed on outside walls, trees, or any exterior areas according to University rules. Posters are to be displayed inside the dormitories and inside public buildings. No posters are allowed in or outside the dining halls. No stickum adhesives may be used on any materials. No moving vehicles with sound gear are allowed, including sound trucks. Balloons are permissable. 

10. 
1be only thing which can be donated to a ticket without it being assessed against their spending limit is people's labor. All othert donated services or materials will be assessed against the candidate's spending limit at their fair market value. I.f a candidate fails to disclose the proper cost of any camprugn materials, he/she will be penalized. The penalty is forfeiture of candidacy. 

11. 
The balloting area.<; on election day must be cleared of campaign literature and ''vote-getters''. 

12. 
C..andidates will be held responsible for the actions of anyone in their campaign or organization. 

13. 
The Elecnon Committee reserves the' right to be final arbitrator in case of disputes or interpretations of the rules. If you have any questions at all regarding these procedures or anything else related to class elections, please feel free to comact Marc Woodward, Ombudsman Election Committee Chairman at 3407. 


Engineering & Computer Science Majors 
DON'T GRADUATE 
without talking to the Hughes Recruiter visiting your campus soon. 

Contact your placement office for interview dates. Ir·-----------------,I 
:HUGHES: 
I t 
L------------------~
~·--"~"""~ 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M /F 

Monday, February 5, 1979 -page 9 
---..
-"·'· 
... ~~ 

With most ofthe cars removed beforehand, the snow removal ofstudent lot D-1 proceded on schedule Saturday. [photo by jolm Macor] 

th€ Bubby RICh Banb 
In ConC€Rt monbay, ~es. 5 ma~tan htqh School Spm 
311 s. loqan mishawaka, lnb. 

~oR 1n~oRmat1on
t1ckets $5 abvance 
call 259-5257
$6 at bOOR 
When does Die training stop me doing start? 
AI Scan. wP. believe lhallhe besllraonong we can gove yOtJ os experoence on pullong your odeas lo work. Sonce we know !hal personal growth os your goal, achoevemenl ollhal goalos reahled through doong Experoence comes lrom dotng-pulling YO!II Ideas lo work, enJoying respon· sobohly, and acceplong accounlabollly · 
Each year, as delermoned, commo11ed collegP grads 10on us. !hey brong new lalenl" wolh Ihem We pullhese lalenls lo lhP leslommedoalely and wolhngly accepl lheor challenges · • 
Because we recognoze ondovK1ual dollerences. ow approach 1~ lo bwld 011 yoor exoslong skolls-lo enable you Ia slarl doonq 
When does lhe lraonong slop? 11 nP.ver does 
Scott Paper Comprmy ts an flqtml oppor1tJrnly ('mployf\r rnll Contact your placerm~nt olhce tor 1nlor mallon 
• 

The Observer Monday, February 5, 1979 -page 10 
c ACROSS 
R 
1. Fann animals 

6. Trail 

s 
10. 
Mediterrane­an principality 


11. Submarine: 
hyph.wd.
s 
13. Chilled 14. Motherly 

w 
17. 
Black bird 

18. Earn 

0 
19. 
Musical pair 


R 
:!0. Gangster Ca­pone 
D 
21. 
Its capital is Khartoum 

22. Solder or glue 

s 
23. 
A few 


25. Course 
28. Dark ?:1. Futen secure­
ly 
28. Robust 
30. Leaves: 
2wds. · 33. Protein souree 
34. 
Evergreens 

35. 
Southern state: abbr. 

36. 
Boxer, Mu-hammed­

37. 
Cheekbone 

38. 
Indistinct 

39. 
Washington, 


D.C. building 
41. Hawk's "oppo­
site" 
42. 
Coronel 

43. 
Buzzed 


46. So be itI 
46. Preposition 
DOWN 
I. Site 
2. Afresh 3. C1·azed 
4. Time before A.D.­
•5. When one's "ship will 
~me inn: 
2wds. 
6. 
Deposit: 2wds. 

7. 
Incite 

8. 
Craggy hill 

9. 
Kind of alms 

10. 
"Golden touch" king 


12. Mock 
15. 
Soviet sea 

16. 
Mineral de­posit 


18. Gloomy 
21. 
Dispatches 

22. 
Tree trunks 


24. 
"Mother of Presidents" state 

25. 
Wanderer 


27. 
Hit TV show 

28. 
Stack 

29. 
Decorative metal tip 

30. 
Venusde­

31. 
Dickens hero 

32. 
Entitled 




The snow plows were out in fullforce Saturday as the University cleared student lot D-1 ofthe accumulated snow. [photo by john Macor] 

34. Heathen 
37. 
Horse 

38. 
Cupola 


40. 
Small hat 

41. 
Speck 


44. From 
Friday's 
Answers 
Molarity 



Counsel rejects conclusion 
NEW YORK (AP) -A former counsel to the Warren Commis­sion yesterday rejected as ''plain wrong" a congressional commit­tee's conclusion that two assas­sins frred at President John F. Kennedy in Dallas in 1963. 
''The House committee is plain wrong when a majority says that there was a second gunman firing at the president from the grassy knoll," said David W. Belin. He was referring to a repon issued in December by the House assassinations committee. 
Belin said he did not believe there was a conspiracy, as the House committee did. He added that he could not rule out conspiracy to the extent that other persons might have worked with Lee Harvey Oswald, but he did not personally believe it occurred. 
The former Warren Commis­sion counsel, who was involved in identifying Kennedy's killer, was interviewed on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
The Warren Commission issued a repon in 1964 that Oswald was the lone assassin, and that he frred three shots from above and behind Kennedy's car from the sixth floor of the Texas School Book Depository building. 
The acoustical evtdence to suppon a second gunman theory 
Michael Molinelli 

TWO WEEK SPECIAL 
qRace halt ~ob sates 
tacos 3/Sl.OO sunday-thutsday nights starting now 
10:30-12:00 
was presented by two scientists who tested a tape recording of transmissions from a Dallas police officer's motorcycle radio during the time shots were fired at Kennedy. 
The committee said the evi­dence indicated four bullets, rather than three, were fired at the president, and that one came from a grassy knoll in Dealey Plaza at about the time a bullet from the rifle of Oswald struck the president's head. 
Seniors begin tax assistance 
Fony Notre Dame students of accounting in the College of Business administration began their annual tax assistance pro­8ram (TAP) for low-income mdividuals Saturday. 
The project is believed to be the largest volunteer organizat­ion in the state and one of the leading student-managed pro­grams of its type in the nation. 
Traveling to neighborhood cen­ters on designated days of the week until the April 15 deadline, the students are prepared to assist wage earners with incomes of $12,000 or less. Records show they assisted 838 taxpayers last year and generated refunds total­mg almost $105,000. 
The student volunteers will be joined by a professor or a certified public accountant at every assistance center during the Interview periods. Records indicate they have never had a tax return questioned by the Internal Revenue Service m the seven-year history of the pro­gram. 
Assistance centers and the hours of operation are: Northeast Neighborhood Center, 803 Notre Dame Ave., Mondays, 5-8 p.m.; Clay Neighborhood Center, 54143 Burd.:.tte St., Tuesdays, 5-8 p.m.; Hansel Neighborhood Center, 1045 W. Washington, Tuesdays, and Thursdays 5-8 p.m.; Southeast Center, 416 Wenger, Wednesdays, 5-8 p.m.; LaFortune Student Center, Mondays and Wednesdays, 2-4 p.m.;-Senior Citizen's Center, 604 East Jefferson, Fridays, 10-12 a.m.; Justice and Peace Center, 136 S. Chapin, Satur­days, 10-12 a.m., and I.aRaza Urban League, 404 Walnut, Sat­urdays, 10-1 p.m. 

The Observer 
Monday February 5 1979 -page 11
-·­
' ' 1979 Mardi Gras Dealer School Schedule
• • • leers split 
In the Halls
[continuedfrom page 12) 
among league scorers. FRIDAY NIGHT'S MAULING Now comes the big test for the 
~ap to 4-3 when-he let% a ulenn 

FIRST PERIOD; 1. CC, Bruce Aldens 16 
Tuesday ThursdayMondayIrish -the stretch run for the an slap~er from the 1 point he 
Wednesday
~ave Feamster, Dave Delich) 5:58; 2. CC, 
Feb. 8Feb. 6
Feb. 5 . Feb. 7~ayoffs. More percisely for should ave stop~d. With 
ed ~uln 8 ~cott Hampson, Bob Mancini)otre Dame , it is a race for home defenseman John x off for a 11:34; . NO, ave Poulin 22 (John Schmidt, 
Keenan

7:00 Grace Le Mans Holy Cross (ND)ice in the playoffs. And they tripping penalty that saved a Greg Meredith) 14:26; 4. CC, Mancini 8(Dale 
Makslm~k, Glenn Van) 15:19;.
have their work cut out for them. breakaway, Greg Whyte tied it 
SE 0 D PERIOD: 5. CC, Grep, ~e 6With only eight games re-up at 4-4 with a power play goal \unassisted) :35; 6. CC, Aikens ( yte)maining in the season, the Irish at 6:41. :19; 7. NO, Tom Michalek 12 (Kevin 
Stanford Holy Cross (SMqWalsh/
will play six of them of the road. But Meredith saved the day for Hu~hreys, John Friedmann) 19:44. 
7:45

T IRD PERIOD: 8. NO, Bill Rothstein 9 
A~ta
With the trouble Notre Dame has the Irish. Once again the nifty 
~ed Weltzln, Frledman'n) 12:13; 9. NO 
in oly Cross been having of late, a difficult work of center Weltzin set up the 
evin Nagurski4 SHG (Brian Burke, Schmidt road schedule is the last thing goal, and Meredith's fourth 14:47; 10.CC, Delich 17 PPG (unassisted) 
DillonLewis
Breen­
16:07. 

Reginathlkneed. ~amewinner of the year gave the 
8:30 PhillipsUE liNES: Irish forward rish a 5-4 edge. 
SATURDAY NIGHT'S RETURN
and penalty killing ~ialist This time the Irish defense Kevin Humphreys pulle a groin !ended a helping had to the 
I 

McCandless Fisher
FIRST PERIOD: 1. NO, Rothstein 10 
Flanner

9:15 Farleymuscle Saturday and is question-goalie, and allowed only two !Poulin, Jeff Per~) 10:54; 2. CC, Aikens 18 
Sorin pangbornable for this week.. .Dick Olson shots from rigth in front of Delich, Feamster 17:30. 
1n Ftsherin Walsh 
SECOND PERl 0: 3. NO, Steve Schneider
did a /reat job fllling in on the Rosenthal the whole night. 
11 (Jeff Brownschldle, Meredith) 3:14; 4. NO,secon line for him as well as Tho~h falterin~ to stan the third Rothstein 11 (unassisted) 5:50; 5. NO, 
Off CampusLyons
10:00 St. Ed's
kilWnalties... Poulin kept his peri , "Rosie ' came up with Rothstein 12 (Schmidt) 16:59; 6. CC, Delich 
Misc.W point streak alive this the saves when he had to, and 18 PPG ~Lar~ Soltvedt, Maksym~k) 19:41;. 
-
in LaFortune

TH!R PE 100:7. CC, Van 2 Maksymyk,
weekend, now having gotten one held on forthe fmal12 minutes to Theatre
Mancml) 1:32; 8. CC, Whyte 7 ~lvedt,
goal or assist in his last 14 league allow Notre Dame to remain 
Feamsterl6:41; 5. NO, Meredith 21 eltzln, 
games ... he is currently seventh above the .500 mark overall. John Cox 7:43. 


Snorts 
Tripucka scores 37 

Irish wear down Dayton 
by Tony Pace During the last two and half same class as Duke's Editor in Chief minutes in the game, Notre Sparnarkel," Phelps added. Dame outscored Dayton 16-2, I'm glad he's leaving," Phelps 
Led by the near flawless free with Dayton's only two points continued, ''so now the family throw shooting ofKelly Tripucka, coming on Lee's basket. can root for Notre Dame" the Notre Dame basketball team Notre Dame had reeled off a Paxson's youn~er brother, John, rallied from a nine point second similar scoring streak to open the has signed an mstitutional letter half deficit to rout Dayton, 86-71. game .. Consecutive three point of intent to attend Notre Dame. 
Tripucka scored a career-high plays by Bill Hanzlik and The younger Paxson is con­37 pomts, 23 of which came at the Tripucka, coupled with a Rich sidered one of' the country's free throw line. Those 23 Branning jumper gave the Irish fmest scholastic guards. converted free throws and his 26 an 8-0 lead less than two minutes Dayton coach Don Donoher free throw attempts are both into the contest. But Dayton did pointed to the Notre Dame depth Notre Dame records. not fold. Paxson and center as a major factor in the outcome. 
Dayton was led by senior guard Richard Montague took turns "We go with five players as far ) im Paxson who scored 32 points carrying the scoring load during as we can. Notre Dame, having before fouling out with 54 the frrst half. as much depth as they do, is seconds remaining in the game. Dayton fought back to tie the bound to wear you down at the 
Early in the second half, game at 26 on a pair of free end of 40 minutes. They played a Dayton opened a nine point lead throws by Paxson. The Flyers heck of a stretch and just wore us thanks to the fine all-around play then took the lead on a Paxson down.'' of Paxson. The Kettering, Ohio jump shot and Montague layup. Donoher singled out the per­native scored ten of the Flyers' Dayton led by as many as six formances of Paxson and first sixteen points in the second points in the opening half but Tripucka. "We saw two All­half on a variety of driving layups their lead dwindled to four when American performances out there and short jump shots. Tripucka hit a baseline jump shot tonight by Paxson and Tripucka. 
Notre Dame began to chip to make the halftime score 43-39. Tripucka is such a threat inside Kelly Tnpucka powers in for two ofhis 37 points, including a 
• away at Dayton's lead when therr The Flyers did not miss the that we were looking for him even record breaking 23-26 from the clianty line. [photo by Mark Mr. Inside-Me. Outside combina­basket in the opening minutes of when he was on the bench.'' Muench] tion of Orlando Woolridge and the second half as they connected The win raised Notre Dame's the country in field goal percent­
NOTRE DAME 86, DAYTON 71

Tracy ) ackson went to work. on each of their fiCSt six shots. It record to 15-2 while Dayton's age in the most recent NCAA 
DAYTON [71)-Abel 22-2 6, Kanleski 32·3 8,
With-) ackson connecting on mid­was then that ) ackson and ledger slipped to 15-5. stats, hit six of the seven shots he 
Montague 7 1·3 15, Paxson 12 8-8 32. range jump shots and Woolridge Woolridge helped bring the Irish The Irish face a difficult took on Saturday .... The Irish won Zimmerman 31-2 7, Gorney 0Q-0 0, Johnson rollmg in layups, the Irish back. schedule in the upcoming week. the game at the free throw line. 01·21, Lee 1Q-0 2, McNally 0Q-00, Morrison 
oo-o o. 28 15-20 11.

reduced the Flyer lead from 55-46 Notre Dame coach Digger Loyola is in the ACC on Monday Both teams had 28 field goals; 
to 61-58. The last of these points Phelps was relieved that his night. Notre Dame then travels the 15 point margin was the 
NOTRE DAME (86)-Wollridge 6 Q-0 12, 
came on an over-the-head, charges had come away with a to Raleis~. North Carolina to play result of the free throw differ­Laimbeer 0o-o 0, Hanzlik 4 1-19, Branning 2 reverse slam dunk by Woolridge. victory. ' 'I'm getting too old for the Wolfpack of North Carolina ence .... Everyone along press row 1-2 5, Tripucka 7 23-26 37 , Mitchell 0 Q-00, 
Wilcox 1 o-o 2, Jackson 6 2·5 14, Flowers 2
The two teams traded baskets this,'' he kidded as he walked State before returning to the ACC was complaining about the offic­
1-2 5, Healy 0o-o 0, Hawkins o2·2 2, Kelly 0
until a)ackson free throw and a into the pressroom for the post Sunday for what Phelps calls ials. They were not favoring 
o-o o. 28 3o-38 86.

Stan Wilcox jump shot tied the game interview. "the show of shows" against either team, they were just 
Halftime-Notre Dame 39, Dayton 39. Fouled 
game at 67. Then it was time for "That shows how awesome we UCLA. incompetent .... The last Irish out-Abel, Montague, Paxson. Tripucka to go to work. can be," Phelps said referring to GAME NOTES-Orlando player to score 3 7 points at home Technical--Montague. Total fouls--Notre 
The sophomore from Essex the team's performance during ~oolridge, who was second in was Adrian Dan dey. DAme 21 , Dayton 27. A·-11 ,345 Falls, N.J. hit three of four free the last six minutes of the game. throws to give Notre Dame a "I thought we showed why we 70-67 advantage. Paxson an­are number one tonight by com­Rothstein gets hat trick 
swered with two free throws to ing back. We didn't let the game cut the margin to one. From the get away at the end like we did s_pread offense, Tripucka drove against Maryland.'' 
leers show split personality
for a layup and was fouled. He Tripucka echoed his coach's converted the free throw to give statements,'' Once we cut their the Irish a lead that was never to lead to three or four points, we by Brian Beglane season, three of them were by victory. An inneffective Irish be challenged. got really confident. That's what Sports Writer only one goal, and one was in defense, especially when trying 
Tripucka ran off a string of we needed to win." overtime. Now, heading into the to clear the puck from their own 
eleven consecutive free throws to Both Tripucka and Phelps were Colorado College turned out most crucial part of the season, zone, was a major factor in the give Notre Dame an insurmount­impressed with the play of the lights on the Notre Dame things are reversed. The Irish loss. able 84-69 lead. Kevin Hawkins Paxson. ''Paxson played a hell of hockey team Friday night. have lost six of their last 10 Hats off to Rothstein Saturday added two free throws and agame. He'sasmartplayer. I'd Luckily for the Irish, though, Bill WCHA games, and in those six 
Dayton's Mike Lee closed out the pi~ him for my team any day," Rothstein's frrst carrer hat trick losses, have come no closer than While Notre Dame's cagers scoring with a basket with just Tnpucka stated. Saturday proclaimed ''Let there two goals. And three oftheir four were putting away Dayton under five seconds remaining in the "Paxson is a pro guard. He's be light!'' once again, and helped wins have been by only one goal. the other dome of the ACC game. just a great player. He's in the salvage respectability for Notre Bruce Aikens led the way for Saturday, a surprising crowd of 
Dame. the Tigers Saturday night with 3,288 watched the Irish do like­That's the kind of weekend it two goals, one in the frrst and wise to Colorado. 
was for the Irish icers. Colorado second periods. That helped CC ) unior Greg Rosenthal started
SMC sponsors festival 
hung a dark cloud over the Irish build up a 5-2 lead heading into n the nets for the Irish, and Friday with a 6-4 win at the ACC the last 20 minutes. :)mith restored the Notre Dame by Pan Degnan participate. Fieldhouse, but Notre Dame But then the Irish pulled it lines to the way they were for the Sports Writer On Saturday, Feb. 10, the Saint cleared the air Saturday with a close. Ted Weltzin set up Bill first half of the year (he moved Mary's Belles will host 5-4 win that enabled it to hang · Rothstein with a perfect pass Ted Weltzin back to center for 
The Saint Mary's Athletic Kalamazoo Community College. on, barely, to ftfth place in the from in back of Tiger goalie Scott Steve Schneider and GregDepartment is sponsoring its Tip-off is scheduled for 1 p.m. Western Collegiate Hockey Owens for Notre Dame's third Meredith on the frrst line, and second annual Winter Sports Everyone is urged to attend and Association. The split gave the goal of the night. reunited the freshman line of Festival February 5-12. "Various !end their support and enthus­Irish a league record of 13-10-1 Then two Insh seniors teamed Dave Poulin, ) eff Perry and Bill sports clinics scheduled for each Iasm. and an overall mark of 14-13-1, up to close the gap to 5-4. With Rothstein). · Despite playing a day are open to all SMC students The cross-country ski clinic will and left coach Lefty Smith still in Kevin Humphreys off for high much improved game, the Irish and are designed to keep them be held today from 4:30-6:30 search of some answers to his sticking, the penalty killing win didn't come easily.aLtive during the winter p.m. Tomorrow's activities team's faltering play in the tandem of Brian Burke and Kevin The major obstacle the Irish months,'' Kathleen Cordes, mclude a faculty-staff volleyball second half of the year. Nagurski brous.ht life back into faced was the red hot CC goalie, athletic director, stated. game at 12:15 p.m. . ''The difference in the way we what was a fading Irish team. Scott Owens. Owens showed 
the success of last year's pro­A cross-country running and played Friday and Saturday is Burke stole the puck at the Irish Notre Dame the quickest glove gram and the surging popularity jogging clinic is set for 4 p.m. like night and day," said the lOth blue line and fed Nagurski on a hand it has faced all year, and put of racquetball and jogging have followed by lacrosse at 5 p.m. year coach. "Saturday night we two-on-one break. Nagurski's in a spectacular performance. He greatly increased the usage of the The pool in Regina Hall will be played like we were capable of frrst shot was saved by Owens, stoJ;>ped a total of 43 Irish shots, Angela Athletic Facility. the site for the synchronized playing, and I thought we did a but "Nag" did not give up and 17 m the third period and 16 in 
Special highlights of the week swimming clinic that is planned heck ofa job. If it hadn't been for ,put the rebound by at 14:47. It the opening 20 minutes. include a cross-country ski clinic for 8 p.m. the Colorado goalie, it would was typical of the outstanding But Rothstein was the only where students may observe the Another faculty-staff volleyball have been a rout. penalty killing by Burke and Irish player who did not have so basic skills and techniques. Also game is scheduled for Thursday "But Friday we didn't make Nagurski all weekend. much trouble beating Owens. students showing an ID will be at 12:15 p.m. The swim team will a decentJass all night, and that's Any momentum Notre Dame Along with· Sdmeider, Rothstein permitted to rent skis on an sponsor a water polo exhibition at what di us in. We did not ~y have gotten at that point was helped Notre Dame along to a 4-2 
hourly basis throughout the 6 p.m. and at 7 p.m. the SMC execute the fundamentals. But qUickly taken away on that same lead after two periods with his 
week. varsity volleyball team will host a then we came back the next night penalty. Irish goaltender Dave frrst career hat trick, the third 
A co-recreational volleyball volleyball clinic. and passed well. I really wish I Laurion got tied up behind the goal coming at 16:59. He game between Notre Dame and Racquet and basketball intra­knew the answer." net after coming out try and clear connected on three of five shots Saint Mary's students is planned murals will begin on Sunday What Smith needs an answer the puck. Dave Delich stole it at on goal. for Friday, Feb. 9 in Angela from andMonday and team rosters to is the lack ofconsistency on the the top of the left faceoff circle In the third period Rosenthal 
8-12 midnight. All students are must be submitted by tomorrow part of the Irish. Of their four and put it into a near empty net at allowed the Tigers to close the welcome and are encouraged to in Angela. losses over the frrst· .half of the 16:07 to secure Colorado's lOth [continued on page 11] 
~.... • • • '· I' • ,·~" • •-·~ -·•,,\ ~':-'·-• " __;;;... 






