• • • Energy -page 13 

VOL. XIV, NO. 42 an independent student newspapei serving notre dame and saint mary's TIIDRSDAY. NOVEMBER 1, 1979 

by Tim Sullivan StaffReporter 
In response to Curt Hench's resignation Tuesday as Student Union Services Commissioner, the SU Steering Committee discussed last night terms demanded by Hench for his return to office. 
"We want him back," the committee said. ''Curt is a very good commissioner.'' 
SU Director Tom Hamel has appointed Dennis Callahan ,now executive staff coordinator for Student Union, as an imerim commissioner, pending Hench' return. Hench resigned over policy disagreements and diffi­culties with the Student Gov­ernment Board of Commis­sioners, demanding solutions to problems between the Board and the Union. 
The three demands include resolving differences between board members to increase their efficiency as studen1 rep­resentatives, the severing of all ties between the board and the SU to create Union inde­pendence, and restoration of the com,Plimentary conceit tic­ket pohcy abolished by -the board two weeks ago. 
The Steering Committee de­cided that eliminating ties with the board would make.it diffi­cult to organize SU funds, since the money is allocated through the board, and that the board inherently guides Union policy matters. As a result, a split would be totally unfeasible on political and monetary grounds. 
DC-10 crashes in Mexico;\69 passengers die \ 
MEXICO CITY (AP) -Investigators are examining cockpit recordings to determine why a Western Airlines DC-10 jetliner from Los Angeles touched down on the wrong runway and crashed at Mexico Ctty' s fog-shrouded airport yesterday, killing 69 of the 88 persons aboard, officials reported. · 
Red Cross and U.S. consular officials said 63 bodies had been recovered and there was no hope that six missingjersons would be found alive, Three persons also were reporte killed on the ground and 19 survivors from the aircraft were taken to three area hospitals, the officials said. 
A Western Airlines spokesman in Los Angeles said there were 77 passengers and 11 crew aboard Flight 605 on its regular early morning run to Mexico City. Earlier, the Mexican government said there were 89 persons on the fight and a U.S. Embassy Official had listed 90. 
In Los Angeles, Western Vice president Ray Silvius said it still wasn't known if the plane landed on the wrong runway. 
"I don't know whether it's fair to. say he was attempting to land (on the wrong runway) or was just over there," Silvius satd. "We have no confirmation yet." 
"Everybody didn't die right away. Some were trying to get out. Some of them ... they were crying 'Help, Help!' then they were either calm or something must of happened to them," said Mrs. Pandora Dickersen Scott, 19, of Chico, Calif. , a passenger. 
As the huge jet broke apart chunks of wreckage cut through a slum tenement district, but rescue workers said they did not find any victims in the area. · 
The Mexican Department of Communications and Transportation 
said the accident probably occured because the plane tried to land  
on a runway that had been declared closed for almost two weeks.  
The officials said they would examine black box tape recordings of  
communications between the plane's crew and the control tower.  
InSU cc~nsiders Hench's demands  Washingtion,  a  spokesman  for  the  Federal  Aviation  
Administration said the major question  is  why  the pilot  was  
attempting to land on a closed runway.  Mexican authonties hope  
In his list of demands, Hench accuses the nine-member board -which determines money allo­cations to student organizations and sets student government policy -of playing 'power games,' and fighting among themselves. According to Hench, the board  than complimentary tickets · a policy he finds contradictory. However, according to Student Body President Bill Roche, this is not true. "One person on the board suggested that ,'' Roche said. "However, the Board did not make a decision, and I don't  the black boxes will provide answers. FAA and National Transportation Safety Board members will be in Mexico to observe the investigation, authorities said. ''It was defmitely not structural; ther' s no question about that,'' said FAA spokesman Dennis Feldman in Washington. He said the crash was caused by an unknown approach-and-landing error. McDonnell Douglas Corp. DC-10s were grounded by the FAA fi~ 37 days after the May 25 crash at Chicago's O'Hare Airport of an American Airlines DC-10. That occurred when an engine fell off a  
decided workers  to compensate SU with dmners rather  [continued on page 10]  [continued on page 6}  \  

===========================\ 
Questions remain in Park's assassination 
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) · At 7:30 a.m. Saturday, it was Six days after the assassination announced that the KCIA of President Park Chung-hee, head had killed Park ac­questions still remain as to why cidentally, during a quarrel the autocratic leader was killed with Cha, and that Cha and four by his chief intelligence aide. others also had been killed. That Also left unanswered is verswn met immediate whether anyone else was in­disbelief on all sides, but it volved in the assassination plot. wasn't until Sunday afternoon, 
And through yesterday, there about 4:00 p.m., that it was was still little indication how retracted, and the government the question ofPark's successor admitted Park had been would be settled. assassinated. 
Sjnce Sunday afternoon, when But there were many problems the actin~ government admit­with even that explanation. ted Park s death was a pre­While giving considerable meditated assassination and detail on how the killings were not an accident, as it had said accomplished, it left some earlier, very little information details blank, and was silent about the . plot has been about what happened after­released. And the few details ward, an important factor in that have leaked out have learning if others had been raised more questions than the involved. official version answered. For instance, why was the 
Park and his chief bod­presidential chief secretary yguard,ChaChi-chul, were shot Kim Ke-won, the fourth person by the Korean Central present at the dinner table 
"We agree with Cur.t that. Intelligence Agency chief, Kim there are problems (with the·. Jae-Kyu, about 7:30 p.m. last board), but we feel that th~ Friday at a dinner in the KCIA major difficulty here is a lack of building near the president's communication between the residence, the Blue House.  when the KCIA chief killed Park and Cha, unharmed, and what did he do during and after the killing? And why would the KCIA  
Student Union and the Board of Commissioners," the su~ering Committee said. .  The president died on the way to an army hospital 20 minutes later.  head, regarded as an intelligent and capable man, decide . to kill Park in the . first· place just  
- 
·•· '-.j:  

because he might .lose his job ­as he was said to have feared ­and was fueding with Cha? Many others before Kim had been forced out of important ·posts but wound up in presti­gious posts, such as ambassa­dor or national assemblyman. 
In fact, Kim had lost favor before, as a lieutenant-general corps commander in 1973, and was forced to retire. He was appointed by Park to the Nation al Assembly, and later came back into favor, quickly moving higher. 
Also, many South Korean observers consider it unlikely that the experienced and powerful KCIA chief would have launched such a plot wtihout some support else­where, or at least some reason to believe he would be protect· ed afterward. 
Carter prof>o,ses $1 billion loan to Chrysler 
Washington (AP)-The Ca.qer 
administration tentatively had 
decided to propose more than 
$1 billion in federal loan 
guarantees to help the ailing 
Chrysler Corp. avert bank­
ruptcy, sources said yesterday 
night. 
The aid package, which must 
be approved by congress, is 
about double what the adminis­
tration previously has indicated 
it would be willing to recom­
mend to keep Chrysler afloat. 
• Details of the proposed bail­
' out package were outlined to -
United Auto Workers President 
Douglas Fraser 'Tuesday night 
at a White House meeting. 
Fraser flew to the meeting 
from Kansas City Mo., where 
earlier yesterday leaders of 
Chrysler corp.'s local unions 
overwhelmingly endorsed a 
new contract that leaves UAW 
members at Chrysler behind / 
workers at the other major auto 
,
companies. See story page 5. ' The aid package that the !administration will propose ap­
1 [continued on page 12) , · ' /. 
----~--­
----------------~--­
News in brief 
Dike ruptures causing many to flee homes in Florida 
INDIANTOWN, Fla. (AP) -Hundreds of people were ordered evacuated after an earthen dike ruptured yesterday, spilling torrents of water from a reservoir over a rural area, flooding homes and roads and derailins a train. Authorities said up to 1,700 people living or campmg in low-lying areas along U.S. 441 in western Martin County were being taken to Red Cross shelters. Two train crewmen suffered cuts, but those were the only injuries reported. 
House, Senate agree on proposal for 1980 budget 
WASHINGTON (AP) -House and Senate negotiators reached agreement yesterday on a $547.6 billion 1980 budget that trims the Senate's demand for sharply higher dt"fense spendin~ by $700 million. The Senate had called for a 3 percent mcrease above inflation in defense spendin~ ::h compromise outlay for defense calls for $129.9 billion m fiscal 1980 spending, about a 2 1h percent "real" in~rease. • !he compromise came as House and Senate negou.ators votced 
increasing concern about the lack of a con~ress10nal budget 
one month into the new 1980 fiscal year, whtch started Oct.l. 
Supreme Court upholds previous Pinto decision 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The Indiana Supreme Court yesterday upheld the decision ~f a trial court judge. w~o denied the state access to certam corporate reco~ds m tts criminal case against the Ford Motor Co. The htgh court voted 4-1 in siipport of Pulaski Circuit Court Judge Harrold StaffelQt's ruling to deny the state "discovery" m the case beyond exchanging witness lists and exhibits.] ustice Roger 
0. Debruler dtsented from the ruling. Ford faces three counts of reckless homicide in t~e death~ of three teen-aged ~iris burned to death after thetr Ford Pmto sedan exploded mto flames when it was struck from behind by a van on a northern Indiana highway in August 1978. 
Weather 
A 30 percent chance of rain today with possible thundershowers. Windy with highs in the upper 50s and the low low 60s. Clearing and beco~ng chilly tonight with lows in the low to mid 30s. Cloudy, di51fJ.al and cool tomorrow with highs in the mid 40s to about 50. 
CantP-_us___~ 
4 pm--SEMINAR, "spin trapping with nitroso, nitrone & 
nitro compounds," dr. e.g. Janzen, u. of guelph, ontario, 
sponsored by rad. lab, CONFERENCE ROOM, RADIATION 
LAB 
6:30 
pm--MEETING, off-campuscouncil, OFF-CAMPUS ALCOVE 

6:30 
pm--MEETING, student committee on tenure, LA FORTUNE BALLROOM 

6:30 
pm--MEETING, leadership training class, BULLA SHED 


7, 9, 11 pm--FILM, "psycho," ENGR. AUD., $1 
7:30pm--FILM, "odd man out," WASH. HALL 
7:30 pm--SPEECH, kathleen m. gwynn, asst. director of admissions at northwestern's graduate school of manage­ment, sponsored by arts & letters business society, 117 HAGGAR HALL 
8 pm--LECTURE, betty williams, nobel peace prize recipient, sponsored by social commission, CARROLL HALL-SMC 
8:30pm--LECTURE, "the urgent literature of latin america,"· carlos fuenres, sponsored by cultural arts commission and dept. of modern and classical languages, LIB. AUD. 
8:30pm--TALK, "a eucharistic vision of notre dame," rev. theodore m. hesburgh, c.s.c., sponsored by flanner hall religious & academic commission, FLANNER PIT 
9 pm--NAZZ, open stage 
Thursday, November 1, 1979 -page2 
Without alcohol 
Blue Line Club supports hockey 
by jane Kirby 
The Blue Line Club will continue its major function of promoting the Notre Dame hockey team despite a recent ACC policy change that bans the sale of alcohol during . athletic events, club president 
Erratum 
Curt Hench resigned from the )?OSition of Student Union servtces commissioner, not student government commissioner, as was reported 
in yesterday's Observer.  The  
Observer  apologizes  for  the  
error.  

Correction 
The Carlos Fuentes lecture is at 8:30, not at 8 p.m. as written in a Features ar­ticle yesterday. 
Alcohol group 
plans lecture 
Dr. Ruth Engs, associate professor of Health Education at the University of Indiana at Bloomington, will be giving a lecture on Alcohol and the Campus Culture on Sunday at 
8:00 p.m.in Carroll Hall. This 
. lecture is part of the· alcohol awareness program sponsored by the Saint Mary's Alcohol Education Council. Engs is a nationwide authority on alcohol abuse. All are welcome to attend the lecture. 
The Observer 
Night Editor: Margaret Kruse Asst. Night Editor: Deirdre Murphy, Dave Thomas Copy Editor: Kathryn Casey, 
John Ferroli News Editor: Mark Rust Editoriall.Ayout: Tom Behney Features Layout: Mark (THANK YOU)Perry, K. 
Connelly Sports Layout: Beth Huff­man Sports Copy Editor: Kate Huffman Typists: Tina Terlaak, Bill 
Swift, John Smith, Cindy 
Grillot 
Emt : Cindy Grillot · Proofreader: Bruce Oakley 
ND Day Editor: Katie Kick­uskie Ad Design: Joe Murphy . Photographer; Tom Iackman 
GuesT AppearanceS' John 
(I'm so trustrated) McGrath 
Tile Observer (USPS 8 9201 Is published Mondly through Friday ex­cept during exam and viCitiln perilds. The Observer is publilllld by the students of Notrt 011111 IMI Sl\nt Mary's College. Sulllcriplla may Ill purchnld tor S2U per yur 1111 per llllllltlr] from The ObSerVer. 1'.0. 1111 a. Nttre bam~, 1nc111aa 41556. s-c1 clan : pilei, NWI D11111, Ill­diana . 
The Observer lr 1 nwnlllr If till 
Aulclatld  Prill.  All  rwprtdlctlln  
rights lrl l'lllt'VId.  
--­ 

_,. ___ . ~ 
Thelma  Hessling  said  
yesterday.  
In  the  past,  Blue  Line  

members could go to the Blue Line Room (located above the hockey rink) between periods of the games to relax, have a beer and talk about the game. 
"It's not true that the club depends on the sale of beer,'' Hessling stated, "we're proving that this year. People are joming the club because they want to support Notre Dame hockey." 
Hessling hopes to reopen the room for the next home series to sell coffee and soft drinks. 
Dean of Students James Roemer had recommended earlier this year that the sale of alcohol be banned at athletic events. He stated that Security had called to his attention several fights that occurred last year, including an incident in which garbage cans. were rolled across the Blue Lme room. Roemer also said that he had received complaints from at leat two hall rectors about students coming back from hockey games drunk. 
"We want to show the ABC (Alcoholic Beverage Comission) we are conscientious," he stated. 
The Blue Line Club is a non-profit organization which any hockey fan can join for a $3.00 membership fee. Hessling estimated that one~ fourth its members are actually Notre Dame students ­the rest are fans from the South Bend area. Through the sale of pom-poms, buttons, and beer, the club has sponsored bus trips to away games, an awards banquet at the end of the season, publicity, and other promotional activities. 

Rodan You from the Tower, Ton1te wfth 
Ro-ck--n-Retrospect, from 11-12 
Followed by the Alblim Hour, Only on Notre Dame's Student Rock, AM 64 

THIS WEEK AT THE NAZZ Thur. Nov. 1st-Open Stage 9·-12  
..  Fri. Nov~ 2nd-lunchtime concert with RICH PREZIOSO 11 :45-1 BRIAN McHALE 9-1 0:30 ..RICK WALTERS 10:30-?  
• Sat. nov. 3rd-ERIC BARTH WALLY TIMPERMAN 9-10:30 RICH PREZIOSO 1 0:30-? ,JJ{fff!l·  



.J' r ....A>• '" •.•• __ •' 
~·······-· .. 
The Observer 

BARNWELL, S.C. (AP) ­Nuclear energy is no bugaboo in Barnwell County, South Carolina, where the country's last operating commercial nuclear burial ground is located. ­
Folks here support nuclear power. They just don't want to live in the nation's nuclear dump. 
To that effect, Gov. Dick Eiley yesterday ordered a 50 percent reduction in the amount of low-level nuclear waste that may be buried in South Carolina, a two-year process to begin immediately. 
At a news conference in Columbia, S.C., Riley said the Barnwell site will continue to accept all low-level nuclear waste generated in South Caro­lina, but will reduce shipments from other states. 
Riley had foreshadowed the decision last week, telling reporters his state would not absorb the waste turned away from Washington state and Nevada, whose :governors closed disposal sites there. 
A month ago, low-level nUtcle­ar wastes generated in the United States were trucked to just three sites: 15 percent to the Hanford site near Richland, Wash.; 5 /ercent to Be~Ltty, Nev.; an 80 percent to Barnwell, with more than half of that coming from the North­east. 
On Oct. 4, Gov. Dixy Lee Ray closed the Washington Dump, citing unsatifactory enforce­ment of shipping regulations. 
On Oct. 4, Nevada Vov. Robert List closed the site near Reno. ''I'm just tired of having to assume th responsibility for having our people take risks,'' 
List said. 
Riley said yesterday he thought resolution of the prob­lem was essential to contmued nuclear development in the United States and he hoped his 
_-_announ.cement would spark na­tiona! action. 
''I do think there will be a reaction in Congress.... We should decide first things , first," he said. "We can't keep proceeding into a never-never land saying someday" we'll do something about nuclear waste storage. 
Riley's cutback order sharply reduces the disposal options available to hospttals, research labs and commerical reactors, which daily create such low­level waste as contaminated clothing and reactor sludge. 
For now, nuclear facilities are storing waste on site. How long they can do that ''depends on the type to waste," said Louise Dressen of the U.S. Depart­ment of Energy. She said hosJ?itals which use nuclear equtpment for diagnos~s and treatment have only a two-to three-week storage capacity. 
''The ~overn•ori of the three states wdl be meeting with NRC (Nuclear Resulatory Com mission) chauman ] oseph Hendrie on Tuesday to discuss what assurances they can get on the enforcement of trans­portation and _packaging regulations," she srud. 
Gwynn to lecture 
Kathleen M. Gwynn, assistant director of admissions at Northwestern University's Kellogg Graduate School of Management, will lecture tonight at '7:30 p.m. in 117 Haggar Hall. Gwynn will discuss master's degree programs various fields of management, including business, public, hospital and health services, education, and transportation. 
--------------------------------------------------------, 
Thursday, November 1, 1979-pag~_3 
Commission reports on TMI 
, WASHINGTON (AP) -Mem­bers of the Three Mile Island commission told congressional critics yesterday that _the final report of their investigation is far-reaching, even though it does not recommend a nuclear moratorium . 
.John G. Kemeny, chairman of the presidential s;ommtssion, told a joint congressional hear­ing that the day-old report rec­ommends strong medicine for the nuclear industry and its government regulators. 
But the 179-page re.J?Ort on the March 28 nuclear acctdent drew 
strong criticism from the chair­men of the two congressional panels that oversee nuclear power. They said its rec­ommendations dido' t go far enough. 
"In the absence of a morator­ium there will be a tendency to use Band-Aides where surgery is required," said Rep. Morris 
K. Udall, D-Ariz., chairman of the House Interior Committee. 
An Sen. Gary Hart, D-Colo., chairman of the Senate Nuclear Regulatory Subcommittee, said, ''I am troubled by the commission's decision not to recommend a delay in con­struction of new plants.'' 
Commission member Carolyn Lewis, who had sought to get a moratorium recommendation included in the final report, said the decision not to include one was a close decision, ac­companied by "a sense of ang­
u!sh" on the part of commis-moratorium. He pointed to the swners. I' d · th
B t . . pane s recommen attons at 
u Kemeny, prestdent of no new nuclear plants be -li-Dartmout~ C.ollege, contended censed unless maJor safety im­
the commtsswn recommended · what amounts to a form of [continued on page 12] 


/ 

I q ('1 f""-Y'i )c{} F),P· 

~~~i ~[112)-~~) 
(~ (J ,p) J:·: ,'i""/ 
.t•rc.L,_,., 
Counton chaJ].enge andqbange everydayas a FactoryMutualengi.neei 
were coming to campus soon. See your college recruitment office for details. 
• 
FACTORY MUTUAL ENGINEERING Suite.400 . 2850 Golf Rd 10 Gould Ctr -Rolling Meadows, IL 60008 
.. ------------------------------------------------­
----------------. 
The Observer Thursday, November 1, 1979-page 4 
Players ready production 
The Notre Dame Student Players are approaching the final stages of preparation for their upcoming production of "Stop the World--1 Want to Get Off.'' Any student who wishes to become involved in the production should call Dave Ellison at 3797. Student volunteers are needed to usher and work in the box office. 
The Student Players is a completely student-operated theatrical company which has produced a show every semester for the past five years. 
This semester's production is being directed by sophomore speech and drama major Jeff Mousseau. Doug Klee has served as technical director and lighting designer, and Paul Kosidowski ts the musical director. 
Three Saint Mary's students are also involved in various production aspects this year. Maureen Ulicny designed the set, Colleen Quinn choreo­graphed the dance numbers, and Belinda Goins coordinated costumes and make-up. 
Arts & Letters Business Society 
presents Kathleen M. Gwynn, Assistant Director of Admissions at Northwestern Univ. 
S.L. Kellogg Graduate 
School of Management 
Nov. 1 7:30 pm 
117 Haggar Hall 
--~--

Ftlday & Saturday Nov. 2&3 11.00 Carrol Hall (SffiC) sponaot•d by SAPS 
.-.----------------------------­

HELP 
WANTED 
NOBLE ROMANS is now taking 1applications for pizza tossers & food prepa~atio"iI people. Work schedules can be arranged I · · 
I I
around class schedules. Apply in person. I
1
I I
I Phone 277-5300 I 1 Corner of Grape & Cleveland Rds. I 1 across from University Park Mall I
•·-----------------------------J 
Samurai Trick-or-Treaters [photo by Tom jackman]. 

-~---­
"Let's warm up and have an ice-·cold Stroh's." 

_., 
,·,r,OO'~-:-'f'~.····T'§•• ........... ~·S···ilo·····-········ L ...'![\.&.......... : •••••• .,.i,. ............... ;--::---;­

----------------------------~-------------------------­
• 
-
-The Observer Thursday, November 1, 197? -page 5 
Chrysler cOntract endorsed 
KANSAS CITY, Mo.(AP) ­Leaders of Chrysler Corp.'s local unions overwhelmingly endorsed Tuesday night a new contract that leaves United Auto Workers members at the No. 3 automaker behind work­ers at .the other major aJJto compames. 
Robert White, vice presid•ent and Canadian director of -che UAW, said there were "sev•en, I think'' dissents in the show-of -hands vote in a closed meeting of 256 officers from 184locals in 71 /lants in the United States an Canada. About 40 of the delegates were in another meeting in another room at the time. The approval was the first step toward ratification votes that the union expects to complete by Nov. 15. The UAW's concessions were estimated by the union at $403 million over the three-year contract, when wages will again be comparable to those at Ford Motor Co. and General Motors Corp. 
The meeting was Interrupted by the departure of UAW President Douglas A. Fraser for what he described as an "urgent" trip to Washington, which he declined to describe: in detail. "I hope it means we're going to go over what the government proposal is going to be'' on aid to Chrysler, Fraser said before leaving. 
Chrysler has asked for $750 million in loan guarantees. 
"If it's open-ended, and I have every reason (to believe) it's going to be, that's a lot more satisfactory than $750 million," Fraser said. 
Fraser would not say who summoned him, but reports from Washington have said proposed legislation could come out of the Treasury Department at any time. Congressional committees already have begun hearings on bills to help the struggling company, and finan­cial witnesses have said the company needs help without delay. 
Delegated to the meeting of the union's Chrysler Council, and delegates arriving early for the meeting today of stewards and shop committeemen seem­edresignecl ~o a lesser contract. 
They were eager for explanat­ions of promised non-economic gains supposed to partially offset concessions estimated bY. the union at $403 million unul parity with General Mowrs Corp. and Ford Motor Co. workers is regained in the third year of the contract. 
There seemed to be no objec­tion to the most-publicized non­economic provision, the com­pany's rreviously unheard of proposa in a side agreement to put Fraser on Chrysler's board. But there was wtdespread un­certainty about it. ''What does it mean for us?'' asked a delegate from Local 630 in Ann Arbor, Mich., who like others did not want to be iden­tified, before yesterday's meet­ing. Fraser has said his sole aim· in accepting the director· ship offer is to "represent the auto workers." 
A contract summary distribut­ed by the union disclosed yesterday that in the nego~ia­tions, Fraser wanted the umon to decide who its board repre­sentiuive would be. "(Chrysler Chairman Lee A. Iacocca was unwilling, however, to accept an unknown," the summary said. 
The Union complained in bar­gaining it could accept nothin~ less than ''the quality of sacn­fice'' between supervisors and workers, particularly in layoffs. The company, it said, was keeping foremen with not enough real work for them to do. 
Some 29,000 of Chrysler's 110,000 UAW members are on indefinite layoff. • A member of local 174 in Detroit complained before the meeting that Ford and GM plants typically had one super­visor for every 20 to 25 workers, but at Chrysler the ratio was close to one in 13, and in some places, one in five. His figures could not be checked 
immediately.  
"You  wouldn't  believe  how  
wasteful it is," he said.  
The  contract  summary  said  

Chrysler had given the union a letter of assurance "that it 
Auto worker officials
. ­
anticipate contract strike 
CHICAGO (AP) Union officials held out little hope of a contract settlement that would avert a strike at noon today by 25,000 United Auto Workers members at International Harvester Co. plants nationwide. Contract talks continued yesterday in an effort to reach agreement on a new three-year contract before 
thc-strike deadline for opera­tions in eight states. 
;;It appears at this point that there is not enough time to reach a new agreement by the noon deadline,'' said Cletus Williams, a member of the union's bargaining committee. ''The company has made some small concessions, but all the major things they are demand­ing , including mandatory over· time remain on the table.'' 
The two sides are using as a model the recently approved contract between the UAW and Deere & Co., which includes a 9 percent pay raise over three years and quarterly cost of living adjustments. However. the mandator.,. overtime propo­sal is unique to the Harvester talks. 
Bill Greenhill, a Harvester spokesman, said the firm be­lieves it must have some provi­sion for requirin~ employees to work overttme stmilar to that in the existing contractswith other large equipment makers. 
Sigma Xi elects Bender to Board of Directors 
Dr. Harvey A. Bender, profes­Dr. Bender received his B.A. 
sor of biology and adjunct from Case Western Reserve 
professor of law at Notre in 1954. He received his 
Dame has been elected to M.S. in 1957 and his Ph.D. 
the Board of Directors of Sigma in 1959 from Northwestern 
Xi, the scientific research soc­University. He was the NSF 
iety. In-Service Institute Fellow in 
Dr. Bender was elected 1962, and the Gosney Research 
director-at-large at the 80th Fellow at the California Insti­
Annual Meeting of Sigma Xi, tute of Technology in 1966. 
held this week in Abbey-on­He was a visitin~ professor 
Lake Geneva, Fontana, Wis­in human genettcs and a 
consm. research assistant in law at 
Dr. Bender has been a mem­Yale University in 1973. He 
ber of the Notre Dame Chapter has been affiliated with Notre 
of Sigma Xi since 1961. He Dame since 1960. 
served as Chapter President, Sigma Xi, one of the nation's 
1977-78; President Elect & leading scientific honor soc· 
Program Chairman, 1976·77; ieties, currently has a member­
Treasurer, 1975-76; and Sec­ship of more than 100,000 
retary, 1970-72. scientists intends to continuously monitor the ratio of -supervisors to workers and to make adjust­ments where necessary," and would discuss the rattos with UAW plant representatives if asked. 
Another dele~te from Local 630 was seekmg information about modifications to contract provisions calling for an inde­pendent medical opinion in disputed disability claims. 
''I get more complaints about that than anything else," The delegate siad. ''Ford and GM don't abuse it, but Chrysler harasses you." 
The base hourly wage at Chrysler is $9 and an assembler receives $8.67 per hour. At the end of the three~year contract, an assembler will receive $11. 32 an hour, comparable to what Ford and GM assemblers will get at that time. 
The Chicago-based farm im­plement maker has plants in the Chicago areas and Canton and the Quad Cities area in Illinois; Shadyside, Springfield and Col­umbus,Ohio; Fort Wayne and Indianapolis, Ind.; Louisville, Ky.; Memphis, Tenn.;Atlanta; Dallas; and St. Paul, Minn. 
UAW officials instructed work­ers to be on the job this morning, but to leave at noon and set up picket lines in front of plant gates. 
Meanwhile, operations were moving again at Deere's Plow & Planter Works in Moline where members if the Interna­tional Association of Aerospace Workers have set up ptcket lines in a local contract dispute. 
· Some UAW members had refused to cross the lines earlier in the week, but most were reported back on the job by Thursday. 
Caterpillar Tractor Co.'s oper­ations nationwide remained shut down with no-new contract talks scheduled in Peoria. Neg­otiations broke down last week and some 40,000 UAW mem­bers in Illinois and five other states walked off their jobs. 
The union's contract with the Big '1'hree farm and heavy equipment makers expired Oct. 
1. International Harvester work­ers have continued to work under a contract extension agreement. 
Friday is l'st day.
for s1gn up 1n dining hall 
SCUBA DIVERS! 
First scuba class tonight in room 2d of LaFortune at 7:00pm. 
U you missed Tuesdays meeting, this will he your last chance to sign up for lessons. 
Questions? Call Chuck at 272-8607 
~~ ~C;,~.,
# :...~s~ DRINK NOW 
~~ ~~~~ 
0y.~ Town &Countt,y · Liquots 
is. the ONLY place. to go 

Fifth of Gordons Vod~a ........................ Or1rt of Kentucky Tavern Bovrbon ....... . HC.:f Gallon Dimitri Vodka............ , ...... . Fifth of Rum ............................. : ..... . Fifth of Tequila............................. ... Schenley's Whiskey......................... . Ca~e 12 cz. Fo;; Deluxe....................... . Ca3e 12 oz. Pabst Blue Ribbon ............. . Case 12 oz. Stroh's......................... . Case of Quarts of Old Mil~;aukee ...........
. . 

!. !I!~ Iii illill iII !lli~r ~ . . ·.~ 
PLUS 
10% DISCOUNT on ALL 
• liquor & beer not men.......·.-.&
...__ 
above for all ND & SMC students faculty 
We stock kegs & have one of the areas largest selections of 
OPEN 9:00 am -midnightr 
in all 4 convenient locations 
l own and Country Plaza 157112th St., Mishawaka River Park, 2411 Mishawaka Ave. Southland, 4411 Ironwood 
259-3262 259·8364 289-3868 291·7580 
, 
. -1~ 
' . 
. ~· ~ . 
---------~-------------------~---------~-------------------~­
The Observer Thursday, November 1, 1979-page 6 
Special Holy Day mass All Saints Lltu'99 
; 
Thursday ,November tSacred Heart Church 
11 :30am Celebrant : Rev. Richard Zang, / c.s.c. 
5: 15pm -Celebrant Rev. John Van Wolvlear, C.S.C. 
Check hall bulletin boards for times of masses in dorms. 
~========= an 

r 
1 ~ JUST FOR THE RECORO I 
f 
r 1 {.~? fn the JOO Center I 
r I offers 10% oft on I
~ 
I I
EVERYTHING , ~ I with ID & coupon 1 RECORDS, TAPES, paraphernalia I
r 
r 
r 
L----------------­
r 
10% OFF all vitamins & health foods 
with ND-SMC 1D 
~LTHFOODS----------~ 
t------NA1'URAL VITAMINS 
SEARS HEAL 1'H 

FOOD DEPT 
UNWERSITY PARK MALL 6501 GRAPE RD. AT U.S. 23. 
" 1" -·~ ... · so'Um BEND 
The Catholic and Protestant Committees on Urban Ministry (CCUM and PCUM) presented their annual awards for out­standing ministry during their fall conference held Oct. 21-24 at Notre Dame. 
Each group recognizes min­istry on both the national and local levels, and PCUM gave its awards for the first time. 
Fr. Marvin Motter, director of the Campaign for Human Development, received CCUM' s national award, and four Sisters of Notre Dame de Namur shared the award for local ministry for their work among the poor in Apopka, Fla. 
The Protestant Committee on Urban Ministry presented its 
Mexican novelist to speak 
Carlos Fuentes, a Mexican novelist, poet, playwright and political commentator, will speak tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the Memorial Library auditorium. Born in Mexico City, Fuentes has been asststant chief of the press section for the Mexican Ministry. of Foreign Affairs, press secretary of both the Mexcian del~gation to a U.N. International Law Commission in Geneva and the U.N. Information Center in Mexico City. He has published scores of essays, short stories, plays, poems and novels such as ''The Death of Artemio Cruz," "A Change of Skin,'' ''Aura,'' ''Where the Air is Clear,'' and ''The Good Conscience.'' 
A self-described ''independent leftist,'' Fuentes has been denied a U.S. visa on several occasions and in 1969 was denied entrance at San 
Juan, Puerto Rico, by U.S. 
customs  and  immigration  
officials  as  an  "undesirable  
alien."  

Urban ministry committees present local, national awards 
MORRISON~KNUDSEN COMPANY, INC. Designers, engineers, builders, managers and EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYERS ... 
worldwide ENGINEERS WANTED 
By Morrison-Knudsen Company, Inc. to Support Construction and what a better way to help today's growing world and to build for tomorrow's generations by leaving some'thing concrete behind! Morrison-Knudsen's Corporate Engineerin$ Department has superior engineers . with the experience and experuse to do it all-from dams, off-shore islands outfalls, pipelines and power plants to tunnels and even concrete cities-you name it and chances are we have done it almost everywhere within North America, the Arctic, Indonesia and the Middle East to name a few. 
Morrison-Knudsen's constant success world wide continues to be attributable to the retainment and development of the JilO:>t qualified individuals willing to walk that extra mile. 
Ifconstruction and engineering are in your future, we want to talk to you. See your placement director about arrangements for a personal interview with one of our Personal Representatives. If you have additional questions we will be glad to answer them for you. Morrison-Knudsen representatives wil be here first nati~nal award to a Catholic priest, Msgr. John J. Egan, who founded the Cathofic organization in Chicago in 1967 and soon helped to form its Protestant counterpart. PCUM also recognized Rev. Nicholas 
on November I and 2. your resume to:  If you are unable to meet with our representative send  
Pamela Walton  
Recruiting Manager  
'  Corporate Engineering Department Two Morrison-Knudsen Plaza · P. 0. Box 7808 Boise, Idaho 83 729  

P. Hood, pastor of Plymouth Church, a congregation of the United Church of Christ in Detroit, Mich., and a member of the Detroit City Council. 
Fr. Mottet "has journeyed through life seeking JUStice for the poor, housing for the elder­ly, and compassion for the 'wayward," according to the award citation. He founded the Social Action Defartment in his native diocese o Davenport 10 years ago, and early efforts mcluded legal services for the poor, organization of senior citizens, group homes for adolescents, jail ministry, and ~inistry to the Spanish-speak­mg. 
Sisters Cathy Gorman, Gail Grimes, Ann Kendrick, and Theresa McElwee have lived and worked among the poor in Apopka, Fla., for more than five years. They have begun two health clinics owned and operated by mi~rant laborers. 
Msgr. Egan 1s special assis­tant to Notre Dame's president Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, and director of the University's Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry. His task is enhancing 
Management club sponsors speaker 
Lou Mersenier, the national director of . college chapters for the Society for the Advance­ment of Management, will speak tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Hayes-Healy auditorium. The lecture is sponsored by the management club and the topic will be the possible af­filtation with the S.A.M. All interested students are invited to attend. 
Nobelwinner 
to speak 
at SMC 
The Saint Mary's Speakers Series will present Betty Williams, the 1976 Nobel Peace Prize winner from Northern Ireland, .tonight at 8 p.m. in Carroll Hall. Admission is free. 
Notre Dame's church-related scholarship and service. The founder and former chairman of the Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry is now a board member and CCUM is a com­ponent of the Center he directs. 
The Reverend Hood's leader­ship has involved Plymouth Church in community renewal and services, including housing programs in decaying urban neighborhoods, advocacy and services for the physically and mentally handicapped, and education programs. 
J • 
• . Crash 
[continued from page 1] 
wing during 
takeoff. The death toll was 273, 
making it the worst aviation 
disaster in U.S. History 
Mexican officials said a re­
liminary check of control-tower 
communications ''confirm that 
the pilot was authorized to use 
runway No. 23-right, which is 
in use." 
An official said runway No. 23­
left, which has a sophisticated 
instrument landing system pre 
ferred by pilots, was closed 
down on Oct. 19 for repair 
work. All Airlines were notified 
of the closure and were 
instructed to land on the adja­
cent No. 23 right. 
When the jet touched down on 
23-left, with its wheels hitting 
the runway 400 feet beyond the 
threshhold for a safe landing, 
and 750 feet beyond that the 
right wheels hit the truck killing 
the driver, said sources at the 
federal Aviation Administration 
in Washington after speaking to 
officials at the crash scene. 
McDonnell Douglas sent its own team of investigators from its Long Beach, Talif., assem­bly facility, to aid in the crash investigation. McDonnell Dou~las spolesman Harry Calkins said top engineers and techicians met "to pool their information and dec1de on the form our investigation will take.'' He said there was no in­formation available on the cause of the crash. 
In Los Angeles, Linda Dozier, Director of Public Relations for Western Airlines, said the ill­fated plane was a subtitute for another DC-10 scheduled for flight 605 which was grounded for routing maintenance. 
The airport, located on Mexico city's outskirts, has a popula­tion of more than one million in an immediate 20-block area. The airport was closed for 4 hours after the 6:40 a.m. EST crash: Flights resumed in late morn mg. 

•
micflael &co. 
flair concepti 
Tomorrow's Hair Designs .• • .. Todayfor Contemporary Men &·Women 
North 
~ ......... llotn o•• Edison II lad. 2-3 
(219) 272-7222 

Thursday, November 1, 1979 -page 7 
Editorials 

Teddy saved Carter 
Art Buchwald 
way it does make sense.''
WASHINGTON--You would "We couldn't have planned it think the Carter people would better if we had wanted to. Webe terribly upset that Teddy can now go to people who neverKennedy is getting into the cared much for the Kennedyspresidential race. Not all of and say, 'If you don't give usthem. One astute Carter sup­money, Teddy will take awayporter told me: your three martini lunch.'
''TLs is the best thing that That's all it usually takes.'' 
could have happened to us." 
"I thought Carter was"How's that?" 
against the three martini lunch, "Well, look what was hap­too.''
penin~ before Teddy went to "He is, but as with mostsee hts mother, and · got her t~ings n? one pays any atten­permission to run. Carter was tion to hliil. If Teddy wants tosinking in the polls -· all the do away with the lunchesWashington pundits were wri­people will start taking it seri­ting him off, and the c.ry in the ously."
land was 'Anybody But Carter.' 
"I do," I admitted. 
We were very upset by all this, ''The beauty of it all is thatbut we couldn't do anything now that Teddy is in the raceabout it. We had Rafshooned the media is all excited. Whenthe President for a year, and it Carter had no opposition it wasgot us nowhere. Money was hard to get him on Page 19.
drying up and many of us were Now when Teddy makes aprepared to start working on speech the media expectsthe Carter presidentiail library Carter to answer him. Thenin Plains, Ga. Ther:: Teddy 
P.O. Box Q
they expect Teddy to come backdecided he had to save the and answer him. If Cartercountry and we were off and won't respond Rosalynn will. entire Catholic world, not sim­cerned with any other issuerunning.'' 
The contest between the two of ply Catholics of the United besides abortion. 
' 'Are you trying to tell me them has wiped out all the Support for States. Creatin~ certain laws The truth is that pro-lifers in that you Carter people are not Republican candidates. solely for Amencan Catholics politics run a range fromworried about Kennedy?" 
"I feel sorry for -the would possibly lead to a split in conservative to liberal--from"Well, you always have to be Reeublicans. It looked for a Pope's Views Roman Catholicism. In today's ] esse Helms to Tom Eagletonworried about a Kennc:·dy," he 
said. "But you must be very whde as if the big dogfight world, we realize the impor­and from Henry Hyde to]ames pragmatic in politics. Before would be in their party. Let me Dear Editor: tance of keeping Catholicism a Oberstar. Unfortunately, the 
ask you something. SuJ?pose universal, influential power. further truth is that manyTeddy, we were faced with a Teddy gets the nominatton? We must remember to see the persons, who claim to be )?tO­
terrible prospect. Cart(~r had to This letter is in response to
Won't that make you feel Pope's actions in tpe broad life, are afraid to swim agamst
run a~ainst himself and you can the unfavorable criticism of the
bad?" scope of the world, not through the tide of fashion and openly
imagme what that meant. Last Pope's decision to restrict the
"'Not as bad as if Caner got myopic, capitalist eyes. declare that the basic building
time . he ran a~ainst priesthood to men. I certainly
the Democratic nomination and The matter in question is not block of the whole structure of
Washington, and that show he hope that I do not convey the
got clobbered by the the future of men or women, human rights is the right to life
got elected. The President impression that I have some­
RepubiJ.....ns. If Teddy beats .us Americans or Italians in the itself. Instead of adding their
wanted to do it again, but we thing against nuns or women in
at least we can go down with Church, but the preservation of perception and sensitivity to the 
explained to him the:re were general. To be honest, I might 
dignity. But without Kennedy, the values and significance of struggle for all human rights,
some people in the country who not be at Notre Dame today if
Carter could have been beaten the Church itself. such persons prefer to purchase
thought he was part of the not for the excellent elementary 
by himself--and that's a terri­These are, I believe, the true the acclaim of the secular
problem. We had no issue until education I received from the
ble way to lose." intentions of the Holy Father. society around by denigrating
Teddy decided to m.ake his Sisters of Charity. 
[c] 1979, Los Angeles Times His duty is to maintain the the honest efforts of often less
move.'' However, I do wish to point
S'Vndicate _ integrity of the church brought sophisticated but deeply pro­
''When you spelJ it out that out that the Pope's actions must 
about by our Christian ances­life, and deeply Catholic, peo­by Garry Trudeau always be for the good of the tors. We should -evaluate his ple.
DOONESBURY 
entire Catholic Church. Some­
actions, but nevertheless follow 
times as citizens of the greatest In your own instance, an
if3i:l ~" 
his decisions and then continue 
nation on Earth, we feel that attack on pro-life political activ­
to live our Catholic lives in the
I£T/1113 G6T THIS 
the rest of the world must ity is in stark contrast to your
57l?AI6HT. IN~ 
footsteps of Christ. 
'THAT'S 
follow our standards, or else support of the Equal Rights
7fJ CLAIM 111~ I 
RKiHT,
NJJV HAV!i 70 GeT 
become backward or primitive james Faulkner Amendment, despite the single 
SIR..
65% CF THE w:JTC.. 
in thought. Let us remember minded zealotry of its main that only twenty-five J?ercent of proponents. Again, your attack the U.S. population IS Roman on pro-life political activity Catholic. In contrast, Poland, contrasts with your embarras­France, Italy and many Central Group Criticizes sing silence when the U.S. Civil and South American nations are Rights Commission, of which close to one hundred percent D ksyou had been lately Chairman, Catholic. Hesburgh 's nemar publicly UP.held the "civil 
Pope ] ohn Paul II must gear right'' to kill unborn children. his decisions to all Catholics. In Yet again, your defense of the the countries mentioned above, Dear Father Hesburgh: Rockefeller Foundation, against strong tradition reserves the overwhelming evidence that it priesthood for men. This is not As participants in the has been a mainstay of the 
~9(a;oo 
a sexist or "sinful" train of National Conference on Abor­abortion movement, must cast
~~
~ 
thought, but rather a deeply­tion at the University of Notre some doubt on your own com­
ff/VIU~
IVIIAT IFI 
C4f.LI:PA M:WAL 1/NPtri A!?tXIT.A 
rooted custom that traces back Dame, we listened with interest mitme~t to l;ill ~he principles of
QIILY613T V/CflXY,~ Mf?/?ei..Y STtiNNING 
many centuries. Perhaps as as Father Burtchaell read your Catholic soctal JUStice.
60%'! k/:NN!ii7t. JIJIN? seT-BACK. 
citizens of /rogressive greetings to us. While we In fine, it seems proper to ask America, we fin it hard to ·agreed with most of what you why you do not save your
\ I 
understand why such traditions had -written, we were very criticism of pro-lifers, get your cannot be abolished in favor of much in disagreement wh, ··our own house in order, and, if you modern thought. However, apparent attack on pro-life}. AI­really do believe in a full range 
breaking such customs where tical activity. Especially objec­and hierarchy of Catholic Catholicism is truly a way of life tionable to us, who are engaged valu.es, join people like would be something akin to in such activity and who do Eagleton and Oberstar to pro­
cancelling the annual Notre support 100 O/(. of Catholic mote them in the public forum. Dame-U.S.C. football contest. pnnciples of social justice, was My point is this. The Holy your acceptance of the stereo­Frances Dolan Noonan 
Father is obligated to serve the type of pro-lifers as uncon-john P. Doyle 
institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ........Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ..................Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor..........Diane Wilson Feat11res Editor ... .. Kathleen Connelly &x Q Notre Dame, IN 46JJ6 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor..............Ann Gales Photo Editor ..............Doug Christian 
opinions and letters are the· views of Senior Copy Editor .........M. Onufrak 
The Obsert~er is at11 independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor......Mike lewi~ Business Manager ........Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor....................Mark Rust Prodt~ction Manager .... :)ohn McGrath ofthe University of NotJre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor .................Mike Shields Advertising Manager .........Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's Colle1ge. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Ea'itor .....Ellen Buddr. Controller..................Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged_. SMC News Ea'itor........Macgie Brasstl Circt~lation Manager......Greg Hedges 
_:______.__--""-----'-----------------'--­
---------~----~_ 
_....----------­
,r ,r 
r 
~ 
, 
,
' 
r 
' 
, ~ r 
r 


Thursday, November 1, 1979 -page 8
Features 
Skydiving 
Bill McGurn 
"You're nuts." jump. First ofall, my desire to jump, 
This was my roommate's discoura­however irrational, was very real. It ging yet honest reaction when I told was one of those irresistible urges.him I was going skydiving. "Well," Plus, the people who had done it he ventured phllosophically, "at least were very encouraging. Of course, I'll have a mce single for the rest of due to the nature of the sport, I was the year." Other reactions were unable to gather opinions from the varied: some put in requests for my less successful jumpers, which extre­earthly possessions; others inquired mely limited the opposing viewpoint. about taking out insurance policies My second reason for jumping was "just in case"; one kind soul even academic in nature. Because though volunteered to _eush me out if I was there h~ve been numerous skydivingafraid. As different as all these articles, this is the first to be written reactions were, they all shared the from the perspective of a certifiable same assumption that I was not ~oing coward, one of those people who fear to live to see myself legal in Indiana. a great many more things than fear 0 ye of little faith. itself. I intended to prove that 
My loving parents, though skeptical anyone could ,...:'!--: a jump, and I as always, are nonetheless used to offer myself as irrevocable evidence the often bizarre preferences of their to that assert io1c. eldest son. ",Is that what those All these thin~s were runningpriests teach you out there?'' asked through my minu during that first my father, who has just accepted that class, the subject matter of which was his son is a philosophy major. emergency procedure. Time is spent Mother was likewise outspoken. here on going over what to do when "You fell off the garage roof," she the things they say will never said, "isn't that enough in the air for happen, do. We discussed highyou?'' altitude emergencies, low altitude ,. ' 

"It's not the same, Ma," I ans­emergencies, total failures, strea­.,
. 
wered, "I didn't have any choice mers, and my favorite, the "student _;:; then." in tow,'' which occurs when the static 
"You want you should choose line becomes ensnared and the stupid?" she retorted, with a logic parachutist is dangling at the end of a peculiar to mothers. This is one of rope, some 3,000 feet above the those arguments that you lose even if ground, like some "Eat at Joe's" you technically win, so I dropped the advertisement. subject. But my mother's obJections When the class was asked what to notwithstanding, I went to the first do in this situation, my response ­part of my training at LaFortune pray -was dismissed as helpful but on the second floor of Lafortune. safety of our plane would be me. Center, a two-hour class taught by not immediately practical. It was "My God," I thou~ht, "what am I We circled around and then Norma jumpmaster Jim Stahlman. very tense for me up in that going to be like up m a plane?'' opened the door and I looked at the 
,Parental and peer cynicism aside, I classroom, and I had a sinking feeling But I paid my non-refundable forty distant ground below me. Cowardice did have what I thought were some in my stomach when I remembered dollar fee, which qualified me for the seemed very attractive at the mom­very legitimate reasons for making a that I was a nervous wreck, and only second half of my training, and then I ent, but I did as I was told when she 
knew that I would really do it. Those commanded, "Get your feet out." who know me will attest to the fact This was the first step, and I was now that I would sooner throw myself out sitting with my feet outside the

THE TALKING HEAD 

of a plane than throw away forty plane, and my hand grasping a wing dollars. Thus inspired, I reported to strut. Goshen Airfield bright and early one "Okay," she said, "Get out,"Saturday morning for the final part of
The Redtape Letters 
which was much easier said by her my training. 
than done by me. I reached out with At the airport, a group of us were 
my right arm and grabbed the strut (with apologies to C.S. Lewis) 
put through various mock demonstra­while one foot
positioniQ,g on theOctober 31,1979 tions. We climbed out of plywood step. It was very similar to riding on(All Sinner's Day) planes, dangled five feet in the air a truck's running board, only the fear 
from a makeshift parachute, and much more intense. Once
is outDear Roachwood, practiced our PLF's (parachute lan­there, I remember thinking, ''I don't ding falls) from a three foot platform. 
believe I'm doing this."
While our beloved leader and father of our evil is in Vienna (on his eternal It was similar to an advanced Just as I was getting used to my newmission to destroy the world), I thought that this would be an appropriate time kindergarten playground. Upon com­seat, Norma slapped my leg and said, to give you some advice. As you know, your mission at Notre Dame is to pletion we were physically, if not "Jump," and Jump I did, or, morepromote as much evil aspossible through frustration of the student body. 
psychologically, CJ.Ualified to jump. 
precisely, fell. I arched my back andThis should not be too difficult for a mentality such as theirs. Your colleagues We were placed m groups of threes, the next thing I knew there was ahave thus far done an excellent job. Just last month, Dean Wormer issued and made our final preparations to reassuring tug as my parachutethat marvelous directive against posters. This prevents the students from jump, suiting ~p and getting our opened. I checked the chute, turnedcommunicating in an effective manner. And besides, some of them might reserve chutes ready. There were a around to find the airport, and onlylearn how to read. And Father Wormburgh has introduced Sunday exams, a lot of comments about the actual then resumed breathing. From thenmarvelous way to keep those silly students from getting involved in anything aircraft from which we were to jump; on there was little to do but enjoy the as dangerous as Eucharist or community prayer. 
unpainted, it resembled a beer can ride.
But you, dear Roachwood, have come up with the best plan of all, cutting with wings. There was a lot of It was beautiful up there, all alone in back the student activities budget. Now we have students fighting other nervous charter beforehand, but the sky, a quiet soh tude that does notstudents, commissions battling commissions and even the HPC declanng war those next in line are pretty silent as exist anywhere else. The only voiceon the Student Union. This is more fun than one of their primitive football they await the plunge. 
up there is your own, and I halfgames (excellent job with USC by the way, great for the moral). We even While I was attaching my reserve, expected God to tap me on thehave people bickering over such trivial matters as ticket policy. 
our jumpmaster, · Norma Gledhill, shoulder. I turned and turned,By far, however, the best effect of this project has been the sabotage of the asked me if I could think of any thoroughly enjoying the ride down. INazz and Darby's Place. After all, we can't have Notre Dame students reason why I should not go first. I even remembered not to look at theenjoying themselves. They won't get into law school that way. I have had an infinite number of such ground, performedpersonally been opposed to Darby's Place since it began. Its found.er, Fa~her 
reasons, but masculine pride getting and a halfway Griffin, has done far too much for The Other, the One Above, Get nd of h1m. 
decent PLF when I hit the ground.
the better of rationality, I accepted Even though I origmally thought IPut him back in Keenan Hall; things have a tendency to rot there anyway. 
the dubious distinction. With respect would only do it once (if at all) uponGet the students to go out drinking rather than eating do~ghnuts, a~d !Dake 
to the honor accorded me, I took my landing I immediately wanted to gosure that there is no place on campus where boys can see girls after midnt~ht. 
place in the "hot seat", or that back up. Almost everyone has theKeep those boys together. It might ~ive them some ideas. Tighten panetal position immediately adjacent to the same reaction.
rules. We door want normal sexuality. It's too wholesome. 
door. 
So it looks as though my family andYes, J'm glad that you're out to get Darby's Place. I never liked that damn The plane started down the runway, friends will have me around a littlemutt anyway ... looks too much like a drunk dishmop. 
and I had a hard time distinguishing while longer, and my roommateBy the way, see what you can do to increase overcrowding. I w~nt those between the roaring engine and my won't get the single he su desired. Idining hall lines to reach clear across the quad. And tell my good fnend Ron pounding heart. We were airborne in called my mother and couldn't tellWormey that he isn't putting enough Alpo into the ground beef. I think that a few seconds, and I strained my neck which made her more angry: mymaybe he should replace those ugly tables with troughs. Better for the to find exactly what it was upon skydiving or my survivmg. But I got digestion. 
which I was expected to land. When my jump in, and I'm satisfied, atBut before I close, please get rid of those silly Domer hats. Couldn't you we reached the proper altitude, the least for a while. But I did hearget something with Horns? 
pilot threw out a yellow streamer to something about a hang-gliding club test the winds. I watched the starting up in the spring. Hang­Your affectionate Uncle, streamer softly descend to the gliding -1t sounds hke fun. Howground below, and realized uneasilyRed tape about that one, Mom?
that the next such object to leave the 
----\..~ _.:: '",···, --.._ .. 

--~------.---~~----~--~-----~--~-~-----------~, 
' ' 
. ' .... 
The Observer ~Musicviews Thursday, November 1, 1979 -page 9 


Kansas explodes 
Kansas brought its highly polished traveling show i:o Soui:h Bend 0 c t . 19, backing its new album "Mon­olith,'' and rocked the ACC like no one has ex_pected them to. With a fairly good warm-up job from the Faith Band, the pair provided an entertaining evening. 
Kansas pulled out all the stops visually--explosions, lasers, dry ice, the works. But the beginning of their di~appointingly short 12 song, 75 mmute set, was the most unusual of them all. While sitting in the dark waiting for the curtains to OP.en, we were treated to a collection of voices and noises being P.layed slowly,reminiscent ofRevolution No.9. Thts probably had the same significance as the solemn Indians which adorn 
the cover of their new album. .... 
-
-·­
.._.. 
Elton Jol1n's cotneback cotnes UJ~ short 
Mark Perry 
But his face has changed he's not the same no more AndI have to say that I like the way his music sounded before. 
''Idol'' BLUE MOVES Elton]ohn, 1977 
Ever since Elton ] ohn announced 
his semi-retirement during his 
summer tour in 1976, things just 
haven't been the same. The pianist 
from England threatened to 
dominate the musical indust7 in the 
1970's, but the pressure o super­
stardom proved to be too much for 
him. 
After Blue Moves was panned by the critics because of its somber quality, Elton elected to record his next album, A Single Mu~n. without the aid of the two people who had contributed the most to his success, producer Gus Dudgeon a.nd lyricist Bernie Taupin. A~ain the quality of the effort was lackmg, much more so than Blue Moves, and the record buying public, who had made 
Captain Fantastic and the Brown Dirt Cowboy the first album to hit the national charts at number one in _ 1975, didn't buy this one. 
But it seemed like Elton might be on his way back this year. Three cuts from a previously discarded session with producer Thorn Bell of the Spinners were released, and a single, "Mama Can't Buy You Love," went gold, the first time since "Don't Go Breaking My Heart'' in 1977. He touredRussia to packed houses, and in recent months has undertaken a comeback tour in the United States. 
But for those who think that the old EltonJohn is back, think again. His latest album, Vtctim of Love, is a major disappointment. Elton, sad to say, has gone disco. 
This is not to say that all disco music is bad. Donna Summer has 
Tom Jackman 
This band has always had its problems with pretentiousness, and their live show was no exception. Never underestimating their own importance, Messrs. Steve Walsh and Kerry Livgren have tried to write songs of Dylanesque depth, without the sublety or wit, and have come up with nothing more moving than, say, Devo. This has always been a major stumbling block for Kansas which they don't appear ready to avoid just yet. 
Another undeniable fact which is reinforced in concert is that, aside from all the audio/visual gimmickry, these guys can really play. Lead singer Walsh's vocals 'were near perfect as the band opened with two new songs, including the single 
proved that you can record a disco album that has some redeeming value. But Victim o(Love is basically mindless disco, and isn't really suited to Elton's vocal style. 
The most disappointing note about this album is that the producer is Pete Bellotte, one half of the production team for Summer. Along with Giorgio Moroder, Bellotte has written and produced some of the better disco albums around, but this is definitely not one of them. This lyric, from "Warm Love in a Cold World'', is one example of the type of songs Bellotte has written for this album: 
Feel so good Feelsofine I know I'm yours andI know you're mine Feeling goodand I'm feeling fine Now you're mine Now you're mine Now you're mine 
Pretty heavy stuff, huh? 
Two songs do seem to work on this album, but only because they are the closest reflecuon of the old Elton John style, before he decided to become a musical hermit. 
"]ohnny B. Goode," the old Chuck Berry tune, is recorded in disco style to open the album, but the rocking quality of the song seems to trans­form well to the disco sound. The pace of the song is changed little, except for the addition of the distinctive disco drumming style. This classic is not destroyed by the change, but instead just sounds jazzed up a little. The only complaint here is that the song clocks in at just over eight minutes, with a lot of instrumental breaks and repetition of really don't seem necessary. 
The tide cut, aided by background vocals by Doobie Brothers Patrick Simmons and Michael McDonald, is definitely the best song on the album, and a promising note for the future. On all of the other songs, Elton has elected to use female vocalist in the background, and this doesn't create the vocal style that helped make him successful. This song, though still disco, comes closest to capturing that sound. But this cut does little to help an inferior product. Back when Elton was in his prime, he called albums like Don't Shoot Me, I'm Only the Piano Player and Caribou "disposable," an album recorded just for the sake of recording some­thing. He followed these albums with two of his best, Goodbye Yellow Bnck Road and Captain Fantastic. Victim of Love is definitely 
disposable, but hopefully that's a sign that something better is on the 
way. 
nc.-.n.~u.-h] 
"People of the Southwind." This was surprisingly well done, despite the fact that the intro sounds li!Ce a bad Elton ] ohn song and the lyrics are better suited to the Doobie Brothers. 
Walsh is fun just to watch, as he bops about the stage in his Adidas gym suit like a chorus girl, while often playing chords on the key­boards at the same time. Violinist Robby · Steinhardt was crisp and 
unerring throughout the show, an important part of Kansas' perception of themselves as a symphonic rock band. Compositions such as "Mag­num Opus" and "Lamplight Sym­phony'' are also part of this concept, but Kansas left these out of their short show. 
Mixing in new songs with old hits, the band was quite well received. "Point of Know Return" was repro­duced almost exactly like the studio version! which may be good or bad, dependmg on whether or not you ·see that as a virtue. Lead guitarist Livgren weaved in some needed texture with his occasionaly synthe­sizer work, especially on ''Closet Chronicles," which also featured green lasers knifing through the ACC, to the delight of the crowd. 
Kansas' lastbig-selling3ingle, "Dust in the Wind," marked the midpoint of the set, replete with dry ice for et al. Again, the song was accurately reproduced, but Walsh's overdrama­tic phrasing and pleading tended to detract from the effect, abetted by Steinhardt's accompanying harmon­ies. This was Walsh and Livwen's attempt to write a ''Blowin m the Wind" or "Masters of War" for the seventies, but instead they came closer to "Rainy Day ·women #12 & 35." 
The set was closed with ''Child of Innocence,'' ''Portrait'' and ''Glim­pse of Home," the first two of which featured Livgren and Rich Williams trading some hot guitar riffs. "Portrait" is Kansas at its rocking best, and it affords the group's two guitarists the opportunity to take off in whichever direction they wish, and Livgren and Williams did this without stopping in any monotonous ruts along the way. 
On last year's tour, "Portrait" segued beautifully into Kansas' big­gest hit, "Carry On Wayward Son," but in this show they saved that for the second and final ·encore. Livgren and Williams form the base on this song around which everything else revolves, with the rest of the band building off their driving, almost pummeling rhythms. This is the tune everyone came to hear, and Kansas didn't disappoint. Levgren's all-important solos at the bridge and conclusion were, however, commend­ably SJ?ontaneous but unfortunately uninsptred, making the difference between a good rendition and a great 
one. But you can't expect outstand­ing creativity night after n!ght, and the concert as a whole was first-rate. 
The Faith Band served as the acceptable, if no better, back-up band for Kansas. Although they exhibited the ability to rock on several songs, most notably "Yester­day's News," they must also should­er the responsibhty for writing and performing ''Put On Your Dancing Shoes," unquestionably one of the worst songs ever put to vinyl. 
The group must be credited for one thing--they recognize who their only virtuoso is, and they let him have it. Guitarist]ohn Cascella also plays the keyboards and sings, but each time he stepped to the fore with his cowboy boots and tenor sax, the crowd ,Prepared itself for something exceptiOnal, and Cascella never let them down. Rip_ping into several thoughtful solos wtth full force, yet with remarkable clarity, Cascella was constantly soaring, swooping, explor­ing and discovering new heights with his sax. Posing questions and then answering them, telling stories which it would have taken a month for the rest of the band to do, Cascella's sax did some talking which one rarely sees from anyone in any rock band. It 
was surely one of the highlights of the evening. 
: 
t I1 
j j 

\ 

The Observer Thursday, November 1, 1979-page 10 

,--~::;:;·------, 
IELEOION oF couNCIL mEmBERs I I I 
l
loday 7:30pm I 1I
LaFortune Ballroom 
,; 
I I lreQm picture Qnd I lpte-plctute festivities 1I3:30 FrldQ.Y Qt Corby's ~ I 
1--------------~--1
--------~--------------------~ 
St. Mary's-N.D. Students SUMMER PROGRAMS jn London & Rome Uune 16-July 15) ·Library workers follow the yellow bnck road on Halloween [Photo by Tom jackman]. 


,.,........ ,;..._._....~..~Hench 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, England, France, Germany, Switzerland and Italy 
Courses tor credit available SLIDES AND DISCUSSION ON LAST. YEARS PROGRAM Tuesday Nov. 6 Rm 232 Moreau 
For info call Prof. Anthony Black at 4948 
(office) or 272-3726 (home) 
L----------------------------­
Hospital volunteers help Thai 
SA KAEW, Thailand (AP) ­"We've done things we never expected to do. We've seen 
. thmgs we never expected to see. I don't care how many pictures you see on TV, how many stories you read, you cannot believe this exists.'' 
The speaker was an American interior designer who had come to Thailand for a vacation. Wearing a wide brimmed straw hat and a lobster red sunburn, he was standing among the ragged , emaciated patients in the makeshift hospital at the Sa Kaew refugee camp, where 30,000 Cambodians have found a precarious refuge 50 miles 
from the border they crossed to 
escape war and starvation. 
Hundreds of volunteers from the foreign community in Bangkok , Thailand's capital 125 miles away, have been sloggin& through the mud of the hasttly opened camp,digging ditches, J?Utting up tents, cooking, givmg injections, trying to save lives. 
.Sai~ one yo?ng US Embassy wife: At 10 o clock last night I was baking banana bread at home and I got a phone call. In the morning I was here ... I feel that I have had the chance to do something really important.'' 
The volunteers include housewives, members of the embassy's staffs, businessmen and students who found that they could not stand from the desl?erate need. Caught up in a spiru of helplessness, most of them asked that their names not be used. 
The need for volunteers, in the camp and along the border where refugees sit in the open and wait for help, emphasizes the gap between the extent of the refugee problem and the amount of aid that has been suppli.ed so far by international agencies. 
........-:r~ 

need printing in a hurry? 100 -11 x 17 posters only $10.00 -203 N. Main . South Bend 289-6977 the wiz of the printing biz! 
[continued from p~ge 1] 
consider one person's sugges­
tion a decision of the Board." 
"There is no room in the 
budget for that sort of thing," 
he added. 
Student Union director Tom 
Hamel responded to Hench's 
resignation saying, "I think it's 
an unfortunate 'OCcurrence, but 
11understand his point of view. 
It's too early to tell if there will 
be any disruption in the Union, 
but it leaves a huge void of 
talent to be filled." · 
Ellen Dorney, HPC chairman, 
said, "I disagree that the board 
is fighting with ourselves. It's 
just too bad he feels that way.'' 
''The Board makes decisions 
and there are different views 
expressed," Roche said. "But 
this is not a question of power, 
but of doing what people think 
is ethically right and what 
needs to be done. If we don't, 
then student interests are not 
truly represented. If you get 
overly upset over disagree­
ments, then you don't under­
stand what a board like that is 
supposed to do." 
"I wanted to work at the Union 
with the objective of serving students,'' Hench explained. : ''Everyone on the board has a specified function for the stu­dent's\welfate, but<:ertain mem­bers have not met their defined obligations of serving students; rather, they have misdirected the rurposes of their offices, and will not work under those 
conditions.'' 
Hench named the Hall Pres­
ident's Council's three repre­
sentatives and the ) udicial 
Council representation on the 
board as two of those offices so 
misdirected. 
''The HPC should be working 
to improve dorm life," Hench 
said, "but they are not acting in 
the best interests of the student 
body." 
''The Judicial Council should 
be concerned only with increas­
ing representation with the 
University Administration and 
expanding their role," he 
added. 
Hench said that problems with 
the board included those of 
"structure, operation, and 
direction. ' ' 
"Only one of the nine board members is from the Union," Hench said, "even though the SU spends most of the money the board allocates. This is unfair representation.'' 
Hench said that the Off­Campus <;::ommissioner and the Judicial Coordinator V'!~rl! un­necessary additions tO-the board structure. ~· ~ I 
"The 0-C Corrimissioner-wAs added to the board initially as an overreaction to an earlier lack of representation. It would be more useful to put them in the Student Government cabi­net, . not the most important policy body on campus," he said. 
"The Judicial Commissioner,' he continued, "shouldn't be on the board either. Why should he have a voice in allocating funds or in determining the direction of the SG as a whole?' 
Hench complained about the lack ofSU representation on the board and the size of the board itself, saying that one HPC representative should be from the SU instead. "But the nine­member board is inordinate because we have too wide a variety ofopinions, Hench said, "Five or seven are enough. It worked better when we had that many before.'' 
Hench proposed a five­member board consisting of the Student Body President, the Student Body Vice-President, the Student Government Treas­urer, the Student Union Direct­or, and the Hall President's Council Chairman. If seven members were required, Hench would include an additional HPC and SU representative apiece. 
Tenure 
Committee/ 
meets 
There is a mandatory meeting for all members of the Student Committee on Tenure tonight at 6:30 P·Jll.· in LaFortune Ballroom.. Anyone interested in tht·tenure'issue is welcome to attend. 

J 


~------~-­
.. w w 
The Observer IThursday;·November 1, 1979-page 11 
Mountaineering #4. 
1M untaineering is the science and art of drinking Busch. The term or:iginates due to the snowy, icy peaks sported~Y the·label outside and perpetuates due to the cold, naturally refreshing taste inside. ( cf. lessons 1, 2 and 3.) . 
Mountaineering1 is a skill 
of timing as well as 
nique. The wrong 
moment, like the 
wrong method, 
marks the gap 
between 
amateur and 
aficionado. So the key to successful mountaineer­
ing is to choose the occasions 
wiSely ancl well. When, then, is 
it appropriate to slowly quaff ~~Iii 
the smooth, refreshing mountains of Busch Beer? 
Celebrations, of course, are both expected and ex­cellent opportunities to test your mountaineering mettle. Indeed, on major holidaysitisvlltually 
· -mandatory ·•-·n.,..,.. to do so. ·,Imagine 
-, memo­
·. ·..·. rating . ·Calvin C. ~_..._. Coolidge's 
.-.-...-,, birthday -~~!!!'::''; · ··or throw­ing caution to the wind d:uring 
Tak.e-A-Sorghum-To-L~~h!!~~-~--~:ruu;: meaning-.· .-... 
Week without the benefit of Busch. A disturbing pros-,-: pect at best. < · 
On the 
other hand, not every event ......~--~. be as sig:nifi­cant as those 
outlined above. 'W'&~~~~~~~~~P"couples who share the 
. c.liMI . . ful times: There are . . · ._:few things finer than : :.taking your compan­_: ion in hand and head­. --ing for the the he-
and hum-drum favor of a romantic & R. Naturally, 
s~ . victories like exams passed,. ~ .· .: papers completed or classes:· attended are equally.... ·· · acceptable. Remember the.·. mountain-
eer's motto: .·­
matricula-. · tion is celebration.···: ::WI'=I 
Interper--_: __ :.·•~o;:,;..;Jfc sonaJ. relation:.: shipsarealso . 
pleasures of mountaineering run the risk of being labeled social climbers. But such cheap shots are to be ignored They are the work of cynics, nay-sayers and chronic malcontents. 
Similarly, the ambience of an athletic afternoon (e.g. The Big Game) is another 
ideal moment. Downing the mountains elevates the morale of the fan and, 
hence, the team. There­
fore, ifyou care at aJ.l about the outcome, lt is your duty to mountaineer. 
When should one not enjoy the invigoration of the mountains? Here, you'll be happy to learn, the list is much briefer. 
Mountaineering is considered declasse with . dessert, .,,.........,. ·.. improper\) -"during judi­. cial T\T>fY"P.Pfl-1 
~~F-· ·mgs andjust ¥ ................ foolish while · crop dusting around . power lines. Otherwise, 
:.· as the hot-heads of the . sixties used to say, "Sejze 
· · the time!" . ...... ­
••.' 
Dorit just reach for a beer. BUSCH~a.d for the mountains. 
<C>Anheuser·Busch. Inc St Lou1s Mo 




---------~~~--­
The Observer • Thursday, November 1, 1979 -page 12 
CELEBRATION/RIVER CITY 
Ptoudi.Y Ptesents 
oily 

atehat 

with Special Guests 
Point Blank 
Thutsday, Novembet 15 8:00pm 
ffiottls Civic Audltotlum 
South Bend 
' j 
~'! Seats Resetved J8.50 &S7.50 
Rivet City Recotds (U.S. 31 North, Westetn Ave., mishawaka Ave. & Dunes Plaza In frilchlgan City) 
river city records presents farewell tour . . . the last south aend appearance
Of 
BLACK OAK 
ARKANSAS 
II.ATURING JIM DANDY 


AND SPECIAL GUEST ... 

Gq1t 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5 • 8:00P.M. MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM • SOUTH BEND 
Tickets: $8.50/7.50 reserved and Ql are still available at all 4 River City 
Records locations In south Bend ar ,an City ­
I I 

• • . Comntission 
[continued from page 3] provements are incorporated, the plant operator agrees to live up to tough new standards and uless the state has an ap-
Nobel winner 
to speak 
Betty Williams, one of a pair who won the Nobel Peace prize in 1977, will give a lecture entitled, ''Can there be peace in Nortern Ireland? ''tonight at 
8:00 in Carroll Hall on Saint Mary's campus. 
Three years ago, Williams and 
Mairead Corngan began a 
spontaneous movement against 
vwlence, senseless killings and 
th misuse of power in northern 
Ireland. The movement, entitl­
ed "The Peace People," active­
ly worked for peace and 
brotherhood in bomb-shelled 
northern Ireland and founded a 
strong resistance group. As a 
result, 22 Norwegian news­
papers honored and funded the 
''Peoples Peace Prize'' and 
awarded it to the two women in 
1976. 
The Noble Prize brought 
international recognition to 
William's and Corrigan's 
efforts. It helped to fund 
rebuilding rprojects in a terror­
ridden country. 
The Saint Mary's Speakers Series invites all students to attend the lecture. Admission is free. 
Observer 
promotes reporters 
·The Observer announced last night the prorbotion of nine writers to the position of staff reporter. These reporters ha_ve consistently produced qualtty news stories over a substantial 

period or"t'ime. The oew "'keep'G~slet<•irf'bllsine-ss. staff reporters an~: . Mary Agreement on a Bailout plan Fran Callahan, Kellt Fltnt, Tom came just one day after the nat­Koegel, Sal Granata, Ann ion's No. 3 automaker report­Hesburgh, Steve Sharp, Kathy ed a $460.6 million loss for the Casey, . Tricia ~eauiean, and third guarter -the largest Ph y lit s Wash 1 n g ton . deficit mU. S. corporate history. 

proved evacuation plan on the 
books. 
And the commission chair­man said while the 12-member panel was divided on the issue of a moratorium, it unani­mously agreed to recommend a major restructuring of the Nu­clear Regulatory Commission. 
Commissioner Paul A. Marks testified that "there has been inadequate attention to the human factor.'' 
Marks, vice president of Health Sciences at Columbia University, said that in general the equipment at the plant ''functtoned as designed,'' but operators were poorly equipped to deal with the crisis. 
The report generally levelled a broad indictment at the nu­clear industry and its regulators but stopped short of rec­ommendmg a moratorium -an issue on which the commission was closely divided. 
Meanwhile, an Associated Press-NBC news pqll showed yesterday that most Americans appear to favor a moratorium on new nuclear plants until safety issues can be resolved. 
lt also said future atomic power plants should be located away from populated areas 
. 
• • . Loan 
[continued from page 1) 
proximates the $1.2 billion in loan guarantees that Chrysler officials originally sought from the administration in Septem­ber, according to sources, who asked not to be named. The company subsequently trim­med its request back to $750 million after Treasury Secretary 
G. Willian Miller said $1.2 billion was too high. 
The sources said the adminis­tration changed its mind after reviewing reports by independ­ent consultants that $750 million would be insufficient to 
' 
I I I: 

~
The Observer Thursday, November 1, 1979 -page 13 .• 

SMC Student Government President encourages students to conserve energy 
by Mary Leavitt 
Focusing on an issue of national significance, Saint Mary's College is sponsoring a program ~eared toward ene.rgy conservation on the campus under the dir~cti_on of a campus energy commtsston. 
"We are askins. people to save energy whtle working towards the International Energy Day in March. We hope the program will be a success and are planning some­thing really big for March,'' Saint Mary's Student Govc:rn­ment President Pia Trigiani said. 
Many different approaches are b~in~ taken by the energy commtsswn to conserve energy. 
Students and faculty have been given pamphlet~ con_tain ing energy conservatwn ttps and stickers to be put on the light plates in all dorm ro,oms and 
Law schools to interview 
Dra~e University and Creighton University Law Schools will visit the campus tomorrow from 9:00 am until 4:00pm to interview interested students. Those interested in either law school must sign up outside 101 O'Shaughnessy by Thursday evening. The inter­views are sponsored by the Notre Dame Pre-Law Soctety. 
Bulimarex''a counseling 
for victim.s 
Indiana University at S.outh Bend .n·Stude~M'>~->G0unsdihg.,. Center is trying to organize group counseling sessions for persons . suffering :from bulimarexia, an. affliction in which people consume large amounts of food, then purge the body by induced vomiting or use of laxatives. This affliction is especially common among females. 
Anyone who suffers from this ailment and wishes to partici­pate in the IUSB program, should call 237-4474 to S<~t up an appointment. 

open mon-sat 2pm-3am 
GOND 
Beat Middies 
Campua Dellvetry 
In IAFottune· Just cijal284-4IJ41 
egu~ boring. b.ou ent of.Le!,f 

....."""", ...............,.!II' ........,..., ............... ,. ..... "' ... 
offices reminding students and faculty to turn off all lights before leaving. 
Amy Hartzel, president .of the chemistry soctety at Sru.nt Mary's, has organized faculty members to speak in the Wedge Room at Saint Mary's dining hall this week from 12:00 
p.m. to 1:00 p.m. every day to students interested in saving energy. . . 
Dr. Joseph Bellma, ~h~trm3:n of the energy commtsswn, ts trying to enlist workers in the fe~eral gover?ment to spea~ at Satnt Mary s on techntcal issues concerning energy conservation. 
''I want the talks to be geared towards students but I am also hoping that people from the South ·.~end . com!? unity will attend, Belhna satd. 
Trigiani is working in conjunction with Charlie Flaim, director ofSAGA-, in an attempt to conserve on the use of such things as glassware and 
napkins in the Saint Mary's 
dining hall. 
A poster showing the college's progress in conserving energy is hung in the dining hall. A graph shows that at this time, SMC's total use of energy is approximately .4 megakilowatts lower than the average for the past three years. 
Unfortunately, despite all the propaganda, Bellina says that student response has been marginal. 
''Right now, there are very few students interested,'' Bellina said. "It's hard to keep the whole thing moving.'' 
Despite this, the energy commtssion is optimistic about the program's future. 
''The program is still ·in a developmental stage," Bellina said. ''I expect as time goes on and we accelerate, more students will become aware and interested in what we're doing." 
THE LEATHER BANANA 
We catty a complete line of Ftye boots &accessories • , 
-We do leathet repair -~Its, buckles, jewelety, small luggage· items, hats, caps, leatftet gloves and bags. 
. J WM w.· 
-15.00 cash discount with yout putchase of Ftye boots· if you mention 
this ad \ (oHet expilesNov. 9) 
100 CENTER, mishawaka 259-1060 
CALL US BEFORE THE HOLIDAY SQUEEZE. 
Of course, you're 
going home for the holidays. Just like everybody else. 
But if you wait until exam week to get your flight home, you can also be squeezed out by every­body else. 
That's why booking on Continental now is the smartest thing you can do. 
You'll get the flight 
--'1 _you want. The seat you want. And save some bucks on our low discount fares besides. So pick up the phone and call Continental or your travel agent tooay. Then, do one other little thing, please. Call Mom and let her know you're coming. 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 8 
U.S.A./ Canada/Mexico/Hawaii/Micronesia/ Australia/New Zealand/Fiji/Samoa/ and the Orient. 
&_ •-... _,... ..................."' ............ .-·---------------------t·------;-------·-------------------·--. 


• 
The Observer -SportsBoard Thursday, Novemb~ 1, 1979-page 14 
... Soccer 
[continued from page 16] 
where we have to be concerned, pointed out Hunter. "I hate to keep repeating myself, but we're better than we showed out there today.'' 
Bowling Green had little to boast about as they ended ut with only 14 shots on goa . Milligan finished with seven saves for the Irish while Jim 

Molarity 
Koury, the Falcon goaltender, was forced to stop only three Notre Dame shots." 
"We've got Northwestern at home on Friday and them we go down to Ohio State on Sunday and both of those games will be very tough," emphasized Hun­ter. "Ifwe hope to defeat either of those teams we will have to play quite a bit better then we 
ACROSS 25 Snake 1 Datum 27 Tolerate 5 Brusque 29 Clothing 9 Dull pains ensembles 
14 Partly open 30 Evergreen15 Danube shrub tributary 31 River of 16 Cut to Normandy 
ribbons 32 Relative 17 Anklebones of ante 18 Melody 35 Odometer 
19 Italian unit epic poet 36 Purchase 20 Woodsman's 37 "When I tool was-" 21 Hooded fur 38 Wave: Sp.jacket 39 lambi 22 Garden 41 Leave in flower the lurch 23 Impover­43 Veranda ished 44 Score 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved· 

did today." 
Th.e Northwestern game, which will be the final home outing for the Irish this season, was originally scheduled for Friday night at. 8 p.m. on Cartier Field. However, it has been indicated that the time of the game mi~ht be changed. Further detatls will be an­nounced in Friday's Observer. 
45 
48 49 
50 
52 55 
56 
57 
58 59 
60 61 
62 63 
1 2 
3 4 
Restriction on commerce Pretense Drench Saddle horse Spigot Leans Modern Persia --false test Rye fungus Church auditorium Of planes Men with future ideas Pleased Peters or Simmons 
DOWN -Morgana Trojan War hero Marigold Three: pref. 
5 Stronghold 6 Exorbitant money­lending 
7 Official position 8 Department of finances 9 Phoenician goddess 
10 
11 12 
13 21 
24 
26 
27 
28 29 32 
33 
34 
Embraces Speed German city Brief Father: Fr. Seine tributary German article Patron saint of sailors Spike Dixie Sycamore, for one Carry on Vortex 
36 Suitable 37 Olympian 
god 39 Thick woods 40 Work unit 41 Stupefied 42 Taunt 43 Clergyman 45 Colorado 
resort park 46 Watered silk 47 Protuber­ance 48 Tropical 
fruit · 51 Nuncupative 53 Subtle air 54 Laborer 57 -Mahal 
by Michael Molinelli 

Hassett's 3-point-plays 
lead Pacers 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The 
3-point play came to the Na­
tional Basketball Association 
this season and Indiana's Joe 
Hassett has become a valuable 
part of the Pacer offense as a 
result. 
Hassett, a 6-foot-5 guard 
Indiana acquired off the waiver 
list after the current season be­
gan, hit three of the long range 
shots in helping the Pacers rally 
Wednesday for a 133-129 over­
time triumph over Houston. 
The three-pointers, an old wea­pon of Indiana during the days of the American Basektball Association, helped Hassett score a career-high 21 points as Coach Bobby Leonard's clug rallied form a 15-point first half deficit. 
"Joey uses his head. He's pretty good on the three-point­er'' Leonard said about the three-year /ro who is now seven-for 1 on three-pointers this season. "He's got a good feel o,~ the right time to_ take the shot. 
"I've always been a good outside shooter," said Hassett, who was one of seven Pacers to finish in double figures. "Leo­nard hasn't told me when to take the shot and when not to take it. Tonight I felt like I couldn't miss. I was real loose and I just wanted the ball.'' 
' 
Soccer 
BOWLING GREEN 2, NOTRE OAME 1 1st Half 
BG, Sorensen (unassisted), 12:01. 
2nd Halt 
BG,bapst, (Theophilus). 1:44. 
NO, LOVeJOY (penalty kick), 38:08. 
Shots on Goal 
BG 14 
NOB 
Saves 
Milligan. Nd 7 Koury, BG 3 
Inter hall 
Two divisions remain to be decided In this lnterhall tennis tournament. Pairings for this week have been printed below. It is the responsibility of the participant to contact his or her opponent and set up the match In each round. Phone numbers are listed below in parenthesis. The results of all matches must be turned in, In person, to the interhall office before noon on the following Wednesday. 
MEN's OPEN 
Kent 8rockelman (289-1718) v. John Burke (8528) Bill Straccia (3336) v. Mike Hickey (1693) 
MIXED DOUBLES 
Finals Dawson-Sullivan (8755) v. Hammer-Burton (1653) 
FR.HESBURGH 
to speak and answer questions 
.. 
m Flanner Hall Thursday Novl 
8:30pm 

The Observer Thursday, November 1, 1979-pageJ5 · 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.
Evert-Lloyd_ '(AP)' Chris Evert Lloyd, who became a bride and yester­day's tennis heroine at about
discusses the same time, says she has to "figure out if it is still worth it to be No. 2 or No. 3 in the world, earn a
difficult million dollars and not enjoy
it, I O 
"I look at the future with mixed feelings. I don't kno~
season 
if I'm willing to put tennts 
-
Classifieds 
Found: Checkbook at Crowley Music 
Hail. Call Marilyn at 7936 to identify.
Notices 
LOST: 1979 Class rin8 P.D.R. initialed,
SKI TEAM: Dryland training-soccer and Gold Stone, reward. all Joe 232-7456. fun and games Sundays 10 a.m., Tues­days and Wednesdays 4 pm, at ACC Lost: Beige trench coat last seen -kitchen soccer fields. Don't forget Nov. 8th behind LeMans front desk before break. meeting at 6:30 pm in LaFortune. Celia, 4611. 
Lost After Dillon formal: Tan coat (with
INTEREStED IN WRITING A 
zippers for lining, no hood). Found JOURNAL. Aworkshop will be given for 
similar one with hood. Want to those interested in techniques of Sung 
exchange? Call: Sheryl 41·4264. 
and Pro~off such as active Imagination and meditation. Sessions will be held at 7 
Lost: Silver Omega watch with broken PM on Tuesdays (6, 13, 20, and 27th) in black band, lost in Haggar Hall Auditor-November. Participants are expected to ium Thursday, betor~ break. Sentimental attend all four seminars. Interested In value, reward. Please call Mike 7374. 
exploring ~ur Inner processes? Sign up at the S C Counselling and Career 
Lost: Ladies wristwatch, silver with a Development Center. 
blue face lost while running Sunday around St. Joe lake. Reward. Call 8702.
CONFUSED ABOUT YOUR MAJOR? Two separate Choosing Your Major 
Lost-2 Notebooks: 1 black cover from 
workshops will be ~ven • Monday, Rome with great personal value. Dave November 5th at 7 P in the McCand­
1400.
less Piano Room and Tuesday. November 6th at 9 PM in the Regina South 
Lost: Blue N.D. jacket with blue lining in Basement. Come see what has to be said Senior Bar Thur. Oct. 18. Contact Diane. 
-It will clear up your questions!! 
211 B.P. Name on tag-May. 
VIDA will have arepresentative to recruit white
Lost-Blue jacket with N.D. 
students In the Library concourse 9:30 • 
insignia at USCJ.ame, ]old watch was in
3:00 on Nov. 2. 
pocket. If faun , call oe at 233-6024. 
Morrissey Loan Fund 
LOST: Gold Ring, Coyle High School Student loans $20-$200. One percent 1957 Extreme Personal Value. Call 
Interest. Basement of La Fortune. 
Karen 8163.
11:30-12:30 M-F. 
Lost: Mens silver Rolex wristwatch. Lost 
Alterations for men and women's clo· 
at St!;r,an basketball courts 10/29.
thing In my home. 255-6275. 
Rewar . Call Chris at 1852. 
Used Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7. Ralph Casperson, 1303 Buchanan Rd., Niles. 683-2888. 
For Rent 
Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 277-Q296. 
FOR RENT: Female roommate wanted to sublet Campus View apt. Live with 3-Young Democrats-other girls. $100/month, all utilitiesWe need you! Join the campaign of your included. Call Kathy, 283-1320.
choice: Roger Parent • Democrat for Mayor, So. 
Room for rent. Furnished, share house,Bend 
laundry, k~liges'. near campus.
Bob Kovach • Democrat for Mayor, Year lease preferred. Call Ted atMishawaka 289-0103 ~ights-Weekends.
Laam about local party politics and have fun. On~ 1 1/2 hr. an eva=. Wor11 Furnished country house eight minutes tothrough ov. 6. Call Katie or Sean 
campus 277-3604 or 287-7018.
3308. 
Garage for rent two blocks from campusTUTORS NEEDED DESPERATELY: 277-3604 or 287-7018. 
1) Male preferred for boy, 14, who Furnished 4 to 6 Bedroom house for rent.
dislikes school, In mostly math. 
Now or next semester. Walking distance to campus. Call 272-1729 after 5:00.
2) High school sophomore In Biology, History, English. 
3) High school sophomore in Geometry. 
Wanted 
4) High school senior In 2nd year 
Chemistry. Wanted one (1) United Airlines Discount coupon. Call 232-2147 after 6:00p.m.
5) Two, 11 and 12, In Math. 1 OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year round. 
6) S~clal Ed. adult, 27, In Math and Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc. 
Read ng. All Fields, $500-$1,200 monthly. Expenses gaid. Sightseeing. Free info­
7) Adult in English, Reading, Math. Write: IJ , Box 52-14, Corona Del Mar, Ca. 92625. 
8) Many needed to hel~ tutor K-1-2 
grade group, 1-2 hrs./wee . Buspersons and dishpersons needed-Male or female. 
9) 4 Cambodian children In English and 
Phonics. Apply at The Carriage House, 24460 Adams Road. 272-9220. 
Contact Volunteer Services -7308. 
Wanted: Colorado Ski Rental Represent-Will do typing. Neat -accurate. Call: ative. Looking for enterprising individual
..
287·5162. to sell ski rentals in spare time on a -commission basis to large on-campusIMPROVE YOUR GRADES!· Send $1.00 ~roups. Write for details: Sport Stalker,
for your 306-page catalog of collegiat!l ox 22353, Kansas City, Mo 64113. research. 10,250 topics listed. Bo:< 25097G, Los Angeles, California, 90025. Female needs apartment and roommates 
(213) 477-8226. for Spring Semester. Call 6777. 
Find those hidden talents! A Putting 11 Wanted-HERBIE'S DELl needs driverAll Together workshop will be given tc 
for campus route, 12-14 hrs./wk. Good 
help you recognize your job applicable pay. Must have transportation.
skills. It is atwo part series to be held on 
234-6519.
Monday, November 5th and Wednesday, 
November 7th at 6 PM in the Studen1 Affairs Conference Room In LeMans. Sign ug to start your search now in the 
For Sale SMC ounselling and Career Develop· ment Center. 
For Sale: 50 0/0 discount tix. Joe 232-7456. 
1970 VW for sale. $475 or best offer. Call
Lost & Founld 
Tom at 232-5645. 
first. But I know it's the only way I will ever be No. 1 again,'' Lloyd said. 
Lloyd lost both the U.S. Open and Wimbeldon this year --something the 24-year-old has not done for five years. she lost first-round matches, and her streak on clay courts was broken. 
Tracy Austin even got top billing for the Wightman Cup matches with Great Britain 
2 Bedroom House. $26,900. Walk or cycle to Notre Dame from Wc.oded Estates. Assume 8 0/0 VA mortgage. Marian Voss LIFE REALTY 272-6330 or 233-6779. 
1968 Rambler $200 needs battery, will get , you home -Call 7979. 
United Airlines 1/2 fare coupons $40.00. Call 272-2325. 
For Sale: Complete set of Stanley and Kaplan MCAT review books. Set includes notes and problems for each subject on MCAT, plus one complete simulated test. Asking $40. Call Kate at 4-1·4224. 
For Sale: BAR Blue and White 11/2' X 4' X 3 1/2' (Buyer backed out). Call again 6931. 
For sale-Goose-down reversable coat with hood in excellent condition. Worn for one winter but am allergic to feathers. Must sell. Best offer. Call Mike 1679. 
4 678-14 radial tires (14") Low mileage. Call John at 1689. 
For sale: Two L78-15 belted snow tires. $50. Call Steve at 8661 or 1432. 
Peach crates are now in stock at River 
City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North. Great 
for storing records, books, plants, etc. 
Tickets 
Will pay$$$ for 2 Navy GA tix. Call Rick 277-1598. 
Desperately need NAVY TIX. Bill 8891. 
Give away Grand Old Opry tix in exchange will buy any number of GA Tenn. tix. Call evenings collect. 1-615­352-3669. 
\ Need 2 GA tix and 1 student ticket for Navy: call Jim: 1195. 
Need 4 Tenn. G.A. tix. Will pay $$$. Call Carl (8916). 
Need 1Clemson G.A. ticket. Name price. Kevin 289·1718. 
Badly need 2 or 4 Tenn. tix. Call Ed at 234-1530. Thanks. 
One Navy ticket wanted. Student ot GA. Call Greg at 1204. 
HELP! Brothers threaten to clean up their acts and become Moonlas If I don't get them football tlx. Don't let my parents off so easily; Please sell me 2 Clemson Student tlx. Call Mike, 1740. 
Needed-5, 4, 3, or 2 GA's or 3 GA's and 2 Student Tix for Clemson. Call 2257. 
Need 2 G .A. Tennessee Tickets. Big $. Call1056. 
Ned needs 2-4 Student tix for Navy, and 2-20 GA or student tickets for Tennessee Away. Phone 8897. 
Need 4 student Navy tickets urgently. Call J. Clements -3239. 
Needed: 8 G.A. tickets for Navy. Call Hank or Brian 232-5471. 
Wanted: 2 adjacent GA Clemson Tix. Marie 4-1-4677. 
Wanted: Navy tickets Mary 4-1-4677. 
Need 2 student tix for Navy game. Call Mary (SMC) 4573. 
I need 2 G .A. tix to the Navy Game. Call Anna at SMC · 5782. 
Desperately need 2 GA Navy tickets. Bill 8172. 
I need 4 student or GA Navy tickets. Louise 6739. 
Need two Navy GA tix . Call Joe 8698. 
Need 1 or 2 ga's to Navy. Call Don 1384. 
this week in West Palm Beach. 
"This year I didn't deserve to win any major titles," Uoyd told the Fort Lauterdale News in an interview published Wednesday. "I wasn't hungry enou~h. I was bitterly dis­appomted, but realistically I know I got what· I should have. 
''If I had wanted a major title badly enough, if it was my first priority, I would have won one. But it just wasn't in me. There was my marriage and aU the outside thtngs taking my ·attention. 
"Don't get me wrong. I wouldn't change it for anything What I have is much l'icher than winning a tennis title. Some people look a lifetime for what I have and never find it. 
''But where do I go from here? I'ts something I ask myself every 'day." 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue In which the ad is run. The Obaerwr office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classlfieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail. 
I ­
Need GA and student tickets for Navy Need 2 Navy GA's for Parents' Anniver­game! Call Tim at 8693. sary Present. They'll abandon me if I 
don't come through. Call Don 1479. I need 1or 2 Navy tix. Will pay $$$ Carl 8916. Need 1-5 Navy G.A.'s. Call Bill at 8855. 
Need 6 Tennessee . Willpay $$$$.Jeff MONEY! Will pay for 8 desperately8764. needed Clemson tickets. Call Ceci 6620. 
Frantically searching for 2 Navy GA's for Mom and Dad, Help! Carol 277-1365. 
Personals
Needed: 2 GA's for Navy and/or Clemson. Call Tex 8203. 
Is it true that every junior at ND/SMC is Good price. Rod 8333. 
For Sale: 1ticket for Navy and Clemson. 
~oing to the class barndance/hayride??? usie Eckekamp and Kevin Lovejcy Need 2 G. A. tix for Navy. Call Ann 
assure me that it is true • don't miss out 277-4976. 
on all the fun -It'll be worth it to see Chris Nannelly and Anne Conrad get I need 2 Navy GA's . Call1209. 
down to the country-western sounds of 
Orphan! Get your tix from hall reps! I need G.A. tickets for Navy. I can give you top dollar! Call Eileen at 7828. 
Lost Blue jacket with white N.D. insignia
\ 
at U.S.C. game. Gold watch was in Need two G.A. tickets for Navy game. 
pocket. If Found, call Joe at 233·6024. Call Ann. 277-4976. 
Open Stage tonlgl:lt at the Nazz (9-12). Need 3-4 GA Clemson tix. Please call John or Dan #3322. 
Dearest Tessie: Thanks for the fantastic break. The Need up to 15 Tennessee GA tix. Will 
lobster dinner lived up to its expecta­pay $12 each. Call Diane 7906. 
lions. Hugs and Kisses SPRINGSTEEN not coming, but I need 4 
Your Formal Date GA and 2 Student NAVY tix. Call ;oad 
P.S. Start saving for the riext one. manager Jackson at 3087 for a 31G 
Dearest T. Rose, Don't you hate being a girl? Your Lovely Friends 
ADVANCE! --. 
Need several G.A. Navy tickets. i'lease From Suite 351
call 232-7314. Thanks. 
Anonymous: We accept your challenge! Time and 
Desperate:y need four Tenn. tix. Call 
Need Tenn. Tix. Call 41-4101 -Tracy. 
place to be discussed. 1738 or 1697. 
222 Holy Cross 
P.S. Airheads will conquer! 
two students tickets. Call Jim or Dan at 3328. 
Need at least three GA Navy tickets plus Lori, 
Welcome to Adulthood! Let's Stroh a 
Party! Happy B·Day! 
Touchee M.F. 
FOR SALE: 4 Navy G.A. tickets. Best Lix, Mary Anne, and Mlch 
offer. Call Jeff at 1022. 
LaFortune Lunchtime Concert with Rich Clemson G/A's Many Needed: Groups Prezioso (11 :45-1 pm.) Friday, Nov. 2nd. 
together or at least in pairs; Call collect 
any day after 9:00p.m. (716) 586-8690. ND/SMC FEMALES! We're Doing It On Saturdar Until we Sea Ghouls and Help! Need 2 GA Navy tix. 7972. Goblins [and morel) Call 3527 for 
details. 
For sale 2 GA txs for Navy and Clemson. Best offer. 234-2284 . For Sale-Two USC tickets. They make good souvenirs. Call Bill Elliot 8953. 
Need 5or 6tickets to N.D.-Tenn. game. Call 683-1359. Hey Kim and Debbie 2002 is a great place. When can we go
Need 2 GA Clemson tix. Call Cindy again?277-3540. Club 
I will trade cash and/or season student Hi Red b-ball ticket for several G.A. Clemson tixs. Call Donna 6782 after 10 p.m. !!Hey Sophomores!! 
Happy Hayride and Box Dinner Friday,Need 2 Navy G.A. tickets. Call Jim at Nov. 2; 5:00-8:00 p.m. Tickets available 232-8129. in SMC Dining Hall and North and South 
Dining Halls at N.D. Only room for 60 I need 6 Tenn. tickets. Call Russ at ~iris and 60 guys . So get your tickets 
277-1761 after 11 p.m. 
OW!!! 
To Sylvia Porter's favorite son, Bruce 
Wanted: 1 or 2 GA's to Navy. Call Bill "Foreign Investment" Happy 19th Birth­1108. 
day! 

I 
___ _.,._ .. 
~ ~ . "' .......................... _............ -"'· ... ~ ........~--... •. 
Love,
•
$25.00 Gerald Ford 
Need ND-UT football tickets Nov. 10. Will pay $25 per. Send tickets C.O.D. to 
John Freeman,Kurt, 1025 Sunset Dr., Chattanooga, The triple and I thank you for a wild Tenn. 37377. week. How 'bout Thanksgiving (gulp­
gulp)
I'm hungry, but my parents can't take me Love, Waldo to dinner unless I have two NAVY GA tickets. Call Sue 8884. Patty Sheehan, 
Happy 21st to my favorite horse lover,
I want tickets for the USC and Navy AQ, and lush with the monogrammed games-Premium. Tom McAuley (312) SMC mug! Meet you at Goose's under 
460-1177. 
the first barstool' Love,
WANTED: GA tickets for any home Ann games. Must be two or more together. all 287-3311 Danny -Joe. Kathy Kanehann and Anneelliott's new arrivals have arrived .. Call 41-4872 and 
NPed 5 Navy GA tickets. Fast. Call Foux ask them for details! 
-3151-After 7 PM. A.M. 
Need 4student tickets for Navy. Dickie at Bruce Springsteen imports now in stock 
1748. 
at' River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North, 3miles north of campus. Open till 2 Irish cousins from Dublin want to see 
10:00 P.M. 7 days a week. 
NO beat Navy. Need GA. Call Bill at 8316. 
-

Thursday, November 1, 1979 -page 16
SRorts 

Kevin Lovejoy provided the only goal for the Insh yesterday in a 2-1 loss to Bowling Green. 
Sports Briefs. _ ___, 
Kuhn continues Martin investigation 
NEW YORK (AP) -Commissioner Bowie Kuhn continued his investigation Wednesday into Billy Martin's bout with an Illinois marshmallow salesman which resulted in Martin being fired as manager of the New York Yankees. "We expect to wrap up talking to the witnesses in a day or two,'' Kuhn said. ''Then we will talk to Billy. It will certainly go into next week before it is concluded." Martin had requested a · meeting with the commissioner to tell his side of the story. ''I have nothing to hide,'' Martin said earlier in the week in a statement released through his agent, Doug Newton. 
Irish, Belles compete in quad meet 
The Notre Dame Volleyball Club hosted its fmal match this season on Tuesday as Saint Mary's, Goshen, St. Joseph's, and the Irish met in a quad meet. Notre Dame defeated the Belles for the first time this fall, game scores were 8-15, 15-6, and 15-11. Both the Belles and the Irishfell toGoshen Saint Mary's lost to the Goshen team 8-15, 15-5, and 15-5, while Notre Dame succumbed 15-7, 15-11. Saint Joseph's handed the Irish their second loss for the night wtth game scores of 15-12 and 15-8; Notre Dame will travel to Purdue Calument on Tuesday for a tri-meet with Bethel. 
McCandless meets Regina for crown 
I 
The McCandless Hall football team defeated Holy Cross Hall, 8-6, last night in Saint Mary's interhall football action. 
Scoring included a safety for McCandless by Kelly SuHivan and a two-yard touchdown run by Kit Bernardi for Holy Cross. On the last play of the game, with the clock running, Kelly Sullivan caught a touchdown pass from Marta Pasquinelli to clinch the victory for McCandless. 
The McCandless team will meet the team from Regina Hall for the championship at a time and date to be announced later. • 
Committee announces pre-Navy rally· 
The Pe{> Rally Committee will stage a pre-Navy game rally Friday mght in Stepan Center. Speakers for the rally, which is scheduled to begin at 7:00 p.m. include Coach Kelly, Ty Dickerson, and Mike Whittington. j 
''Too little too late'' 
Soccer squad falls to BGSU 
by Frank LaGrotta of confidence in their favor. ward Kevin Lovejoy rifled past 
Sports Wn'ter Neither was a factor as Jim the Falcon goalie to bring the 
Baptist drilled a shot past Irish within one. Hunter's 
BOWLING GREEN-It was a Milligan with only 1:44 gone to squad then challenged the classic case of too little too late give the Falcons a 2-0 lead. The Bowling Green defense without as the Notre Dame soccer team next 30 minutes were played at mercy for the remainder of the staged a late-game comeback midfield with neither team game, but failed to score. attempt against Bowling Green showing any offensive dexterity "It's easy to say that we will that fell one goal short. The of note. forget about this one, but final score read Falcons 2 -With seven minutes remain­think we've reached a point Fighting Irish l, and Notre ing, Notre Dame was awarded a 
[continued on page 14]
Dame head coach Rich Hunter penalty kick which junior for-did not like it one bit. 
"We just did not play any­where near as well as we're capable of playing," com­
Volleyball squad chalks win mented Hunter after the ~arne. "We made mental mistakes that are .inexcusable and our 
in final home match of '79 offense was virtually non-exist­ent until the last 10 minutes of by Kate Huffman impressive play in front line the game.'' Sports Writer action. 
The final statistics were grim Another key to the Belles' evidence of a sluggish Irish The Saint M,ary's College victory was the return of attack that could manage only volleyball team chalked up an freshman Mary Lau~hlin, who eight shots on goal the entire impressive victory over Fort did an outstanding JOb for the afternoon -three of which came Wayne Bible College last night Belles in the match against Fort in the last 11 minutes of the at Angela Athletic Facility in Wayne Bible College. game. the Belles' last home match of Laughlin, coming off of an early 
"We just couldn't muster any the season. Game scores were season head injury, made her sort of offensive attack and 15-2, 15-1, and 15-7. first appearance in two weeks. that's very frustrating," admit­Sophomore Amy Terri again "I think the match was an ted Hunter. "Espectally when was outstanding for the Belles, entire team effort, every player you stop and consider that we scoring eight kills out of eleven contributed to the win,'' stated have the potential to beat a attempted spikes in the match. Murphy. "We really needed team like Bowling Green by Coach Erin Murphy cited the win. We only have about• three or four goals." play by sophomore co-captain five more matches in the season 
The Falcons took good advan­Amy Morris and junior Kathy before we ~o to state and we tage of a strong first-half wind Monahan as important factors hope to wm them all, which and kept the ball in the Irish in the victory. Morris and would give us a greater zone for most of the period. Eric Monahan combined for very psychological advantage when Sorenson scored first for Bowl­accurate setting play in the entering state competition.'' ing Green when he capitalized match. The Belles whose record now 
on a Notre Dame defensive "We've been giving much stands at 7-12, will get a chance miscue and knocked the ball by attention to setung lately,'' to boost their psychological Irish goalie John Milligan with commented Murphy, "so I was attitude tonight as they take on 
12:01 gone in the game. It was happy to see the improve­Huntington College, Valparaiso 
the only goal of the half and ment.'' College and Taylor Umversity Notre Dame came into the final Murphy also complimented in a quad-meet hosted by period with the wind and plenty junic•r Marianne Diltz for her Huntington. 
In Sly Hey Kid case 
Kuhn out Ofhis league 

Willie Mays is both an authentic American hero and quite possibly the finest all-around baseball player ever to play in the two leagues of 
Michael
which Bowie Kuhn is, at present, commissioner. For Kuhn to order Mays, a man of over twenty years experience in the major leagues as well as Onufrak several more as a batting coach, out of the institution he has virtually aedicated his life to, is roughly equivalent to a Notre Dame freshman perennial pleasant disposition. For Kuhn to telling Fr. Hesburgh he won't be allowed on suggest that Mays is compromising baseball's campus anymore. integrity by being a good-will ambassador for 
In case you fled the country over break, Kuhn Bally is (as far as I can discern) a sign that Kuhn ordered Mays to sever his contract with the New wants to keep Mays for baseball alone. York Mets after Willie refused to dissolve a And whatever happened to baseball's contract he had recently signed with the Bally inte~rity anyway? It seems to me that when 
Manufacturing Corp., the nation's leading Wilhe Mays was playing in his prime (before producer of slot machines. KQhn felt Mays' Kuhn was named commissioner) player salaries association with a company which had a remained realistic, union and non-umon umpires substantial interest in gambling would impugn were not constantly at war with one another, the "integrity" of baseball. Mays chose to stick baseball promotions did not border on the ~ane, with Bally for "the security of his family" • the and baseball games rarely turned into riots as Bally contract calls for $100,000 per year for one did this past season in Chicago and as one three years with a provision for an additional did two seasons ago in Cleveland. Instead of 
seven years at an escalating salary that would persecuting Willie Mays, Kuhn might better do ' peak at $150,000 in 1989. his job by attempting to solve the rift among 
According to Kuhn (as he made plain during umpires, putting restraints on promotional halftime of Monday night football on ABC-TV), activities, and monitoring events like the he had to insist Mays sever his contract with the Anti-Disco :Night at Comiskey Park and five cent Mets because he had made similar demands on Beer Night in Cleveland. two owners who were also involved with casinos Baseball's integrity may have been maligned in several years ago. To su~gest that Mays would recent years, but it has been through no fault of have the same interests 10 gambling as would Willie Mays. Mays gave his all for baseball, and two multimillionaires who own professional now, since he can no longer play, he has turned sports teams is ludicrous. Mays was contracted to a new field -,public relations. That he should to perform such innocuous tasks as to make make such a swttch is more evidence in support appearances at celebrity golf-tournaments and of his integrity -it illustrated how little time he other public-relations-type functions. Indeed it devoted to outside interests while he was still an is most likely that Bally chose Mays for his new active ballplayer. If more players would follow position precisely for his pristine social Willie's unselfish example, perhaps Kuhn might reputation (I once read the ·only time he had a not need to be concerned with the integrity of dnnk was a sip of champagne after the Giants baseball and address himself to solving some of 
won the 1962 NationalLeague•pennant) and his the game's real problems. · , . · 


. ''"···-"-.:. 
.·r· 

