~--------r--.c...------~--.-_.------~ -~-I -~-----------------...."""'"---.......----~-~--------~~__, 
, , , Film '79 -page 9 

VOL. XIV, NO. 41 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1979 
Knott donates.
Leftist re11els storm US Embas,y• in El Salvador 
$4 million to 
• 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador help the Americans and fired (AP) -About 300 mil'.itant on the attackers. Dembrava campru.gn leftists attacked the U.S. Em­said the Marines did not direct­bassy yesterday, firing guns ly participate in the fight. • 'Our A Baltimore business execu­and screaming •'We will take Marines did not respond to the tive has pledged $4 million to the embassy! '' Authorities attacks," he said. He reported the Campaign for Notre Dame, reported. there was some gunshot dam­bring the total fund raising for 
They said U.S. Marine guards age to the embassy. the University sponsored drive and Salvadorian _troops used Ambassador Frank Devine to $152 million--$22 million tear gas to repel the invaders was having lunch at his resi­beyond its original goal. who climbed the embassy f<:':nce dence at the time and the The multi-million dollar gift 
but were driven back before ranking officer on duty was was donated by Henry J. Knott, they could force their way into deputy mission chief Richard Sr., chairman of the board of the building. Two Marine were Howard. the Arundel Corporation, a reported to have been slightly The U.S. compound occupies real estate firm. Mr. Knott wounded. an entire block and is surroun­made the donation unrestricted 
''They surrounded the embas­ded by a high wall and thick saying, "I am leaving the gift's sy building for a few minutes metal fences. purpose to the discretion of the and they may have hurled a Reporters in the vicinity said University administration.'' Molotov Cocktail on the west­they saw some helmeted Ma­University President Fr. Theo­ern side of the building," ~;aid rines on the embassy roof but dore Hesburgh, in announcing embassy spokesman Vitas they could not determine if they the plege, stated that the Dambrava. were armed. specific use for the Knott gift 
In Washington, State Depart­The embassy was immediately will be determined later. ment officials said one Marine closed and incoming telephone ''However applied,'' Hes­guard was wounded slightly calls were not answered. burgh said, "the gift will when a bullet grazed his ear. Leaflets scattered on the side­greatly advance the scholarship They said the Marine probably walk said, "Down with imperi­of this institution and honor a was saved by his helmet. No alism" and "We want to live in man who has blessed many by details were given about the peace." g~ving of hi~~elf and sharing second injured Marine, ibut At least 24 persons were killed hts resources. officials satd his wound was not and some 100 were wounded Mr. Knott holds numerous senous. Monday in gun battles between corporate leadership posts as 
There was no report of casual­security forces and leftists in a well as his position with Arun­ties among the left-wing street demonstration. del. He started his career as a invaders. There were reports that left­bricklayer during the Great The 45-minute attack occurred wing activitists, who hold 12 Depression and eventually at midday, the Washing~on hostages in the ministries of started his own firm. In 1945, officials said, and Salvadonan jack Anderson addressed students last night on the state he branched out into house soldiers responded quickly to [continued on page 2] ofAmerica. [photo by Ken Berumen] building and land and shopping 
center development. The Knott family is actively involved with Notre Dame.
Capacity crowd attends 
Francis X. Knott, a son, serves on the Advisory Council for the College of Engineering and a

Anderson adresses audience on nz,any issues 
daughter, Manon Knott Beck­man, is the executive director of by Mary Ellen Woods Kennedy, Anderson is quick to il?-c_rea~ing 1;1nemployment and queries on such subjects as The Friends of the Snite Mu­
point out that it was the nsmg mflauon. SALT II, the current coup in seum of Art. 
) ack Anderson, nationally mcident at Chappaquidick that Followin~ a brief discussion South Korea, Congress, and the Unrestricted gifts like the syndicated columnist, address­has made Kennedy a responsi-of our foretgn policy in respect possibilities of Ted Kennedy Knott donation-are, according ed a capacity audience last ble politician. , to Cuba, in whtch he compared being assassinated. to the University vice president night in the Library Auditor­"It is after Chappaquidick Carter's reactions to those of "Congress," said Anderson, for public relation and devel­ium. Earlier in the evening be that Kennedy really grew up," ) ohn Kennedy in 1963, "is split because they and the opmentJames W. Frick, ','rare held a news conference for tb e Anderson satd. "Shedding the Anderson opened the floor to indeed."
[continued on page 5]
local television stations. playboy image, he took a more questions. He adeptly fielded [continued on page 2) Anderson's flowing remarks 
acttve and responsible role in =================================================================== 
touched on a variety of subjects Congress." Anderson turned ranging from Jimmy Carter and to the Republican party, sug· his chances for reelection, to gestingthat the best man for the 


SG Services Commisioner quit$
foreign policy and the current presidency was Alexander situation in Cuba. According to Haig. Anderson, Carter has lost th·~ Haig served as Chief of Staff 

due to policy disagreement
confidence of the people, and as during the "final days" of the a result, the American people Nixon administration. Because by Kathryn Casey tickers to its volunteers. are in a state of apathy. President Nixon was ''preoccu· StaffReporter The board decided that the SU, being a 
Americans are not listening pied with Watergate," Haig volunteer organization, should expect no such to the president, and as a result was, in effect, running the Disgruntled with the behavior of Student compensation. However, Hench said, the board the Congress is not either, country, Anderson observed. Government's Board of Commissioners, Curt told the SU that it would be allowed to sponsorAnderson contends. "He ran the country better Hench said yesterday he has resigned his dinners for its members as compensation.
Although he noted that: then, than Carter is now." position as SG Services Commissioner. Hench Hench indicated that 'the two statements were Carter can use the _powers of Anderson offered some re· listed policy disagreements and difficulties with contradictory.. the presidency in hts attempt marks about President Carter. board members as reasons for his resignation. 
"Either we're a volunteer organization with
for reelection, Anderson '')immy Carter is a good According to Hench, members of the board compensation or we're not," he said. 
questioned whether this will be man. He wants to do what is were difficult to work with because they fight Hench said that while he is not aware of anyenough to secure the nomina­right for the country, but he among themselves rather that working for the pending resignations on the part of other board tion for Carter. lacks the experience.'' Had he student body. He said that the board was caught members, there is nevertheless a stron~ feelingCiting recent polls, Anderson placed experienced people up in "arbitrary and petty things." 
of resentment and disappointment wtthin thestated that h~ felt that Sen.' around him, Anderson specu· ''The Judicial Council should be trying to SU.
Edward Kennedy would get the hired, he might have been strengthen students' rights. The Hall Presi­Democratic nod. ''Kennedy successful. dents Council should-work for better dorm "It is to be understood that there are no __
, i 
does have problems,'' acknowl­As an example, Anderson conditions. Instead, Hench claimed, "they are problems with the SU itself," Hench said. "The ed~ed Anderson, sp~cifically pointed to the economic outlook trying to have fun playing with the power they SU, though working under needlessly difficult pomting to his liberal voting · He feels that Carter does not have." Heqch also expressed displeasure with circumstances, hopes to continue to offer record and Chappaquidick. · un~erstand the present situa­the board's abolition of Student Union's students the services they need.'' Though he feels that tion, nor has he done anything complimentary ticket policy, a policy whereby SU Director Tom Hamel was unavailable for Chappaquidick may defeat to alleviate the problems of the SU has occasionally provided free concert comment at press time. 
._. 

News in brief 
Wednesday, October 31 , 1979 -page 2 


Ex-policemen recieve light sentence murder 
HOUSTON (AP) -A federal judge who was ordered to resentence three ex-policemen convicted of civil rights violations in the death of a young Mexican-Amertcan sentenced them yesterday to a year and a day in prison -one of the lightest possible pnson terms for the felony conviction. They could have been sentenced to life imprisonment. U.S. District Judge Ross Sterling made no comment at the sentencing. Originally, Sterlmg had sentenced the former policemen t · a 10-year suspended sentence, ~ith f!ve years probation, tor the felony count and one year m pnson on a misdemeanor count. But the Justice Department appealed the sentence on the felony count, and the 5th U.S. circuit Court of Appeals ruled that federal law barred probated sentence on the charge. The case began in May 1977, when the body ofJoe Campos Torres, 23,_was found floating in ~he dirty waters of Buffalo Bayou, whtch flows near the pollee headquarters in downtown Houston. Torres had been arrested a few days earlier during a disturbance at a tavern and was in custody before he ended up in the bayou. The defense said he jumped or fell; rrosecutors said he was pushed. Convicted of the civi rights violations were policemen Terry Denson, 27, Stephen Orlando, 22, and Joseph). Janish, 22. Denson now is a carpenter, Orlando an electric tan, and Janish manages a fast-food restaurant and attends college. They will remain free on bond pending appeals, if any. 
Chrysler reports worst 
loss in corporate history 

DETROIT (AP) -Chrysler Corp. said yesterday that it lost $460.6 million in the third quarter -a loss for the single quarter that was larger than any reported by a U.S. company for an entire year. The huge deficit, which had been expected among industry observers, may help the company's campai~n for financial help from the federal government. In 1975, Smger Co. reported $451.9 million in losses -the worst previous financial performance in U.S. corporate history. Bethlehem Steel Corp. lost $448.2 million in 1977. Both companies showed profits the next yea!. 
Tornado tears through 


Oklahoma, killing two 

ARDMORE, Okla. (AP) -A tornado touched off by a pre-winter storm ripped the rural communtiy of New.eort­Woodford in southern Oklahoma Tuesday morning, ktlling two persons and injuring three others, authorities said. The two who died were in a mobile home, officials at the scene said. There was no indication where the injured were. A half-dozen homes were reported damaged in the area, about seven miles northwest of Ardmore. Heavy wind damage also was reported at the nearby community of Lone Grove. Mike Bracken, a Highway Patrol dispatcher, said the tornado touched down about two miles south of the Newport-Wood­ford area, some seven miles northwest of Ardmore. 

Weather 
Cloudy and windy today with a 40 percent chance of rain developing. Highs in the upper 60s and the low 70s. Windy tonight wnh an 80 percent chance of thundershowers· and lows in the low to mtd 50s. Rainy and windy tomorrow with thundershowers possible, and highs in the low and mid 60s. 

4 pm LECTURE, "justice and social change in advanced capitalist society," by herbert gintis, spons: dept. of economics, GALVIN UFE AUD. 
4:15 pm MEETING, student committee on nuclear and military disarmament, all interested students and members of the community are asked to attend. BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE. 
6:30pm MEETING, off campus council, everyone welcome, mandatory for oc members, OC ROOM IN LAFORTUNE. 
6:30pm MEETING, sailing club, spons: nd sailing club, 204 O'SHAG. 
7? 9, 11 pm FILM, alfred hitchcock's "psycho," spons: ats-asc, ENG. AUD. $1. 
7:30pm, SEMINAR, the works of carlos fuentes, by graduate student of spanish moderated by prof. jose anadon, spons: dept. of modern and classical languages and cac of student umon, ROOM 331 O'SHAG, (faculty lounge). 
Cites nuclear plants 

Commission requests changes 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The presidential commission on Three Mile Island called yes­terday for ''fundamental changes" in the was nuclear plants are built, operated and regulated, but said adoption of its recommendations still would not "assure the safety of nuclear power.'' 
The commission told Presi­dent Carter that a broad range of deficiencies -from licensing and re~ulating atomic plants to the traming of operators -made an atomic accident such as the one at Three Mile Island ''even­tually inevitable." 
The panel called last March's accident the worst to occur at a 
U.S. commercial nuclear reac­tor, but said health effects probably were limited to "severe mental stress" to area residents. 
Radiation released was so minor that it may never be possible to detect whether the March 28 accident near 
• • . Attack 
(continued from page 1) 

Harrisburg, Pa., will cause a proposal that the Nuclear additional cases of cancer Regulatory Commis~ion be among those who live near the abolished, would take congres­facility, the commission said. sional approval.
The 12-member panel's find­In accepting the report,ings are advisory and many of Carter said the recommenda­its recommendations, including 

tions ''will be studied very carefully'' and that after an analysis he will make a report to Congress and the nation.
• • . Pledge 

But he said, ''Our own assessment and our decisions
[continued from page 1] 

on what to do cannot be made 
Speaking about the fund-rais­immediately, and we'll have to ing campaign in _general, Dr. be very careful and very Fnck said that its financial goal methodical in our recommenda­has been surpassed one year tions to the public.'' pr.ioor to the anticipated comple­
However, members of thetion date. He said that the commission, at a news confer­campaign will continue "so that ence, voiced fears of anotherthose tnstitutional objectives serious accident unless there isunderwritten by the campaign fast action. 
are met despite inflation.'' 

Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, Univer­"I have this terrible feeling sity executive vice president, that somewhere out there is said that large pledges usually another accident waiting to take a long ttme to pay off and happen," said Carolyn Lewis, what there is no (efinite time­one of the panel's strongesttable when the Knott gift will critics of the nuclear industry. 
come in. He also commented that the University anticipates a Theordore Taylor, a nuclear 
engineer, said, "we're going$7 million /ledge soon which 
will be use in the construction through a period of risks" unttl of the two new student resi­the recommendations are im­dence halls. plemented. 
labor and economy, occupied the Ministry of Education yes­
CONCERTS WEST !'RESENT terday and were holding 20 employees and visitors captive. 
The attack on the U.S. Embas­sy followed reports from Wash­ington where U.S. officials said the United States was prepared to offer "si~nificant" assis­



EAGLES

tance, includmg tear gas and other non-lethal weapons, to the new government of El 
THE LONG RUN 

Salvador to help it overcome extremist violence. 
f-The Observer_ Night Editor: Ann Monaghan Asst. Night Editor: Suzy Marshall, Elvis LaBerge Copy Editor: John McGrath (for the last time) Layout Staf!I Deirdre "not Deardre" Murphy, Dennis "I finally made tt, Ann! " Cotter News Editor: Mike Shields Editorial Layout: Colleen Sloan Features Layout: K. Connelly · Sports Layout: John Smith Sports Copy Editor: Mike Olenik Typists: Moses Malone, tina Terlaak, Paula "Queen Z" Shea, Mich Santello, Kathy Murray EMT: Kim "Got away with it again, Dave!" Convey Proofreader: Nick Zagotta ND Day Editor: Patsy Campbell, Mary Beth Moran SMC Day Editor: Kathy Domanico Ad Design: Matt DeSalvo Photographer: Ken Berumen Guest Appearances: Beth ''I'm not tired anymore!!" Huffman  
The Observer [USPS 581 920J Is published Monday through Friday ex: cept during exam and viCitlon periods. The Observer Is publlslllcl by tilt students of Notre 011111 nd Saint Mary's Cllltgt. Subscriplillla lillY be purchaud tor S2ll per yur IS1D per llllllltlrl from The Observer. P.O. bn Q, Notre ba1111, Indiana 48556. s-et class ":;~ paid, Notre D11111, In­diana . The Observer Is 1 1111111111r of till Associated Pms. All rtp~lduclllrt rights lrt rtllrvld.  

TOUR 79 
bbdiiiO&IIdbtiOidOidlldddldiOObhbilbOOIIIiblllbldDOII6dt660010000101dbOb 
,, 
Don Henley • Glenn Frey Don Felder •Joe Walsh Tintothy B. Sch11zit 
Friday Nov. 16 8pm 
Notre Dame ACC All seats reserved front stage $12.50 Rear Stage 10&$7.50 tickets on sale A CC Box Office 9am to 5pm also usual ACC outlets and 
River City Records Stores in So. Bend and Mishawaka
L---------------------~ 

It's here .. TONIGHT The first annual Senior Class masqurade 
Party from 9-2 in ACC Concouse COSTUME NEEDED TO ENTER Prizes for those Super Costumes 21 ID 
lndividual$15 Group$25 

Tickets on sale inDining Halls & LaFortune $3 includes 1 mixed Drink, or 2 beers • olus free peanuts, munchies, band and the best Halloween you've ever had. Come and Join us 


THE HUMANS 


---~ -----------~--------------._I 
The Observer Wednesday, October 31, 1979 -page 3 

For juniors Magazine internships open 
College juniors working toward careers in magazine journalism are invited to apply for the 14th annual Magazme lnternship Program, sponsored by the Amencan Society of Magazine Editors (ASME) with a grant from the Mag~Lzine Publishers Association (MPA). 
Interns will spend the summer of 1980--from June 11 to August 22--on individual assignment to the editorial 
.."'Traffs of participating consumer magazines and business publi­cations in New York City and elsewhere. They also will have the opportunity to meet with a variety of magazine executives, editors and writers for informal weekly discussions on maga­zine publishing. Forty-seven students were selected for last year's program and were assigned to such publications as: Advertising Age, American Baby, American journal ofNursing, and Archi­tectural Record. Interns are selected on the basis of the following critena: academic courses in journalism, participati?n in campus i<?urnal­tsm, prevtous summer Intern­ships at magazines or news­papers, ~nd published articles m magazmes or newspapers. For further information and application forms, students should contact the office of the dean of the school of journalism and academic dean, or the 

•


comm.,ttee meets today' 
There will be a brief meeting of the Student Committee on Nuclear and Military Disarm­ament today at 4:15 p.m. in LaFortune basement. All stu­dents and interested members of the community are encour­aged to attend. 
office of career counseling and placement, or write directly to Mr. Robert E. Kenyon, Jr., director, Magazine Internship Program, ASME, 575 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York, 10022. Phone:. (212) 752-0055. 
The deadline for receipt of applications is December 15, 1979. 

There's nothing more revealing than a naked diamond. 
The diamond you buy should have nothing to hide. That's why it's advisable to select your stone and mounting separately. 
Before a diamond is mounted, your jeweler can easily demonstrate its cut, color, clarity and carat weight to you. With his help, you will be able to see and compare the brilliance of different stones yourself. 
Brilliance is the key to beauty intdiamonds. Always look for a diamond that has been cut and polished ~o bring out all 
of its natural brilliance. one that meets the exact­ing standards that have be~n established as ideal. These are called ideal cut diamonds. 



li2J 

LK Ideal Cut Diamonds ensure you of getting 
IDEAL CUT the most beauty and value.. ' ' 
DIAMOND
JEWELER 

John M~· Marshall's 
Diamond ImportiCompany 
Lobby St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana 46601 287-1427 

Carter names Judge Hufstedler as new secretary of education 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­President Carter chose Shirley 
M. Hufstedler, a federal ap­peals court judge, to be the nation's ftrst secretary of edu­cation, but held out the possi­bilityyesterdaythat she may be named to the Supreme Court if a vacancy occurs there. 
The President described Mrs. Hufstedler, 54, as "one of the best minds in the country," and as someone ''who could take a new fresh look at the way we educate our children.'' 
Carter's decision was reach­ed Monday after he met the California jurist for the ftrst time. Deputy White House press secretary Rex Granum said it was understood in that meeting that Mrs. Hufstedler ''will not be precluded'' from consideration for a high court post. 
There is no vacancy on the bench, but Justice William J. Brennan]r., 73, confirmed last week that he may retire in June or]uly at the end of the court's current term. 
By choosing Mrs. Hufstedler, who has been a vocal supporter of the proposed Equal Rights Amendment, Carter may boost his political standing among women. His aides have criticiz­ed Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., Carter's rival for the Democratic presidential nom­ination, as failing to place women in positions of responsi­bility on his staff. 
But the nomination could also give the President political difficulties because he was under pressure to name a member of a minority group to the post. 
Carter, in a statement read to reporters by Granum, said that Mrs. Hufstedler, a member of the Ninth Circuit Court-of Appeals and one of the best known women on the federal bench, "is deeply committed to the quality of education and enjoys my full confidence and support.'' 
Granum, explaining Caner's decision to name someone whose experience was outside of the education field, said: ''We thought it important that he bring in somebody who could take a fresh, innovative look at education. He feels very good about her managerial talent and the fresh outlook." 
As a Cabinet secret~, Mrs. Hufstedler will be paid $69,630 annually. Her nomination, which must be approved by the Senate, leaves Carter with one remaining Cabinet vacancy, that ofSecretary of Commerce. ] uanita Kreps is resigning from that post. 
Mrs. Hufstedler, whose rep­utation is that of a liberal-to-

from the Tower TONITE PRESENTS 
The Soul Hour from 9-11 Featuring the best in Jazz, Soul Rythm and Blues And ' Sportsline, where you the..listener can call in. 
All From Notre Dame's Stud~nt Rock AM 64
' ' 

Special Holy Day mass All Saints_ Liturgy 
Thursday ,November 1Sacred Heart Church 
11 : 30am Celebrant : Rev. Richard Zang, 

c.s.c. 

5:15pm -Celebrant Rev..John Van Wolvlear, C.S.C. 
~=============== 
Check hall bulletin boards for P':W times of masses in dorms. ~~~ 
Sl.OO OFF!! 
ani< album or tap!' ( now tnru Nov. 3. J,m,t 1 coupon ppr p!'rson) 
moderate Democrat, will head the second new major federal agency in the Carter adminis­tration, with a budget of $14 billion and about 17,000 em­ployees. In 1977, Carter cre­ated the Department of Energy. 
Mrs. Hufstedler lives in Pas­adena, Calif. , with her hus­band, Seth M. Hufstedler, a prominent California attorney. She was appointed to the appeals court 10 1969 by Presi­dent Lyndon B. johnson be­coming the se~on . woman 'to b_e ~amed to a CirCUit court posi­tiOn. 
The legislation creating the Cabinet-level Education De­partment was signed into law by Carter on Oct. 17, setting in motion the bureaucratic mach­inery that will lead to estab­lishment of the department. 

-:-----------~------­
,-/ -~-~--~ ~-­
The Observer Wednesday, October 31, 1979 -page 4 



HPC finalizes budget 
by}ana Schutt to get involved themselves as the HPC allocations will be held StaffReporter well. this Thursday from 7-8:10 p.m. It was announced that the in the Flanner common room. The HPC held a short meet­HPC budget for this academic The recycling program insti­ing in Farley Hall last night. year is now firmly set at tuted by the HPC in conjunction Business was brief, with only a $14,040. After subtracting $200 with InPIRG was discussed by 
short address by John for the council's contingency InPIRG representative ] im Calloway, An Tostal chairman, fund, the council has a total of Jones. Jones announced that a on the agenda $13,840 to use for allocations to station wagon would collect the 
Calloway reminded the r•es­the dorms. newspaper and aluminum cans idents that it is time to ptck a Don Ciancio, executive coor­every Monday, Wednesday, hall chairman for An Tostal dinator of HPC, informed the and Friday between 12:45-1 1980. He urged the presidents council that budget hearings for p.m. Pick-up spots are to be 
..._. 

BURN'S RENT-ALLS 
2 Cu. Ff. Refrig. $55 per year new shipments of refrigerators have just arrived also TV's Steamex Carpet Cleaner 10% off with student ID LARGE BBQ GRll..LS AUTO TOOLS ROORCAREEQUWMENT 332 W. MISHAWAKA 259-2833 




$4.99 
Barhra Strei.wuul 
Her STEREO LPS SERIES 898 

$5.99 

PICTURED ITEMS ONLY. 

N.D. Bookstore~~ 


organized for each dorm partic­
ipating. 

HPC chairperson Ellen Dorney closed the meeting with a remmder that the women on campus should exercise caution when walking across campus a.t night. 
''An escort is available from Security," Dorney said. This concern is rrompted by the recent sexua assaults reported on campus. 
Counseling 

Center holds workshop 
The Notre Dame Counseling Center will sponsor a workshop on Life and Career Planning 
starting tonight and running A thoughtful student's reminder that today is Halloween. three consecutive Wednesdays [Observer photo file] at 7 p.m. in Rm. 400 or the Administration Building. The workshops consist of "' exercise and discussions de­
SMC BofG stresses 

. signed to help students explore career and life directions. 
rape awareness program HEW awards ' it would mean $90,000 to
by Mary Kay Leydon 

$100,000 of advertising to the The Saint Mary's Board of school. Governance. met last night to The Chemistry Club and the 
discuss recent issues regarding faculty are sponsoring a seriC";s the St. Mary's community, of debates and lectures


study grant 

on particularly security problems energy at noon everyday this 
·wee~exce'pt Thursday, accOrd­
surrounding the alledged• t<apetoND of two female students Oct. 20. ing to Pia Trigiani, Student 
The Board discussed the Body president. The debates development of an effective are being held in the WedgeThe Department ·of Health, Room of the SMC dining hall.
rape awareness program com­

Education, and Welfare has The board introduced two
bining the efforts of the Notre

awarded the University ofNotre new members: Erin Flood, the
Dame and Saint Mary's secur­

Dame a $93,600 grant to assist freshman representative, andity departments. 
minority and women students Suggestions were made to Joan _M~Carthy, the athleticin graduate and professional improve security road commiSSIOner,
study. on the 
between Notre Dame and Saint

The funds, awarded under 
~*********~*****~ 
Mary's, such as increased light­,.. ,..
the Higher Education Act 
ing, installation of direct teLe­,.. ,..
Graduate and Professional 
phone lines to security, in­

Opportunities Program will 
creased patrol of the area, and a :,.. Buy ~ ,..
support twelve fellowships at 
volunteer student escort service 

the University, according to 
along the road. _

Third District U.S. Congress­*,.. 0 ,..* 
Saint Mary's has placed a bid

man]ohn Bradamas. .,..,.. BSERVER ,..* 
with the College Bowl 

. Minorities an.d women pl~nn­,.. ,..
Committee to hold the national ,.. ,..
tng careers 10 economics, 
competition at the College,

psychology, or law are eli~ible to apply for the fellowsh1ps. according to Mary Laverty, ~ Classifieds ~ 
,.. ,..
director of student activities.

Selections will be made by the ,.. ,..
Should the College win the bid

University. / 
************~****' 

,,._~,, 
'i' t••.)fU~ MICI4GAN t;lAEf I 1 II.OCII SOUTH Of THE MOARIS CIVIC loi.I)ITOKII..M ON AlYEA 8ENO P\,AlA DOWNTOWN SOUTH I!IENI" 

THIRD ANNUAL 
Don't miss our Dlsgrotesque Costume Party, a Vegetable Buddies original, with prizes lor costumes including $50.00 cash lor the best. This Is guaranteed to be the lunnesl Halloween party In town, 







HAllOWEEN 
NIGHT 
WED OCT 31. 
located 100 Center, Mishawaka I 

Tonite ND·Smc  
Holloween Night·  
9.:30-1:30  
$1 with Costume  costume contest  
$2 without  Monster Mash .  at midnight  
Disk Jockey Soft Drinks  Munchies  

The Observer Wednesday, October 31, 1979 -page 5 
University 
simplifies future re.gtstrattorl 
processes 
Justice committee outlines tenure policy 
b) Mike Shields News Editor 

Faculty repr~senta1ives and students outltned and critiqued. the status of tenure at Notre Dame during ~ conference held last night in Hayes-Healy. The conference was sponsored by the Uniwrsity Committee for 
~Justice in Education. Peggy Osberger, a Govern­ment major, accused the Uni­versity of sexism for failure to grant tenure to V\-omen faculty members. She cited the statis­tic that of five women eligible last year, none received tenure. She also noted that only 40 women are now on the f(lculty. She accused the Univepsi1y of having a "re\>olving· door" polic:y that excludes women from tenured faculty positions. This policy deprives students of 
the opportumty to learn from qualified teachers, she said.· Osberger also found fault 'with the UniverSity's confiden­tial tenure decisions. Profes­sors deRied tenure are not told why they were turned down, she said. She called for the University to reexamine its tenure process which, she said, favors research and publication over teaching ability. Vincent DeSantis, professor of History, outlined '{he tenure system as defined b}' standard of the American Association of University Professors. He said tenure is not guarantee of lifetime employment, but pre­fessors cannot be dismissed without good reason and due process. He stressed the fact that tenure does not insulate a 
faculty member from an .\for responsible, honest govern­accounting of his actions. . ment. He said that Carter was DeSantis said tenured faculty ·~ poor choice in '76, b1;1t would 
members are not unquesti.on· .not comment on his own, ably excellent, ancl added that personal choice at this time. He they could be dismissed in the did say that he would prefer case of financial crisis or a Ted Kennedy to Carter, but decline of enrollment in his would wait until he saw the department. Republican nominee before 
Tenure should maximize the making a decision. 
Just for the: Record~ -------Halloween Sale I 
Wear your costume and receive Sl.OO 
off any LP or tape In stock ... Hooe you can Be-witch us, on Wed. Oct. 31 -10 cJm to 9 pm/free treats 
by Rosie Lawrence 
Pre-registration for next semester's courses will be sim­plified for Notre Dame students this year, according to Rick Sul.livan, University registrar. There will be more pre­scheduled major courses for certain students and less check­marking of other classes for all students. 
Some students are familiar with the pre-printed scheduling of required classes, such as sophomore business majors. Now there will be pre-schedul­ing in Engineering and certain business classes. This is effec­tive only when all students majoring in either college are required to take classes in a certain pattern to complete a degree. It eliminates unnec­essary waiting for cards which are of no interest to any other students, Sullivan explamed. 
University electives are still checked if they are immensely popular and limited by course requirements, such as class-
academic freedom of profe­
sors, but will not lead to 
mediocrity as a result of com~ 
placency, he contended. 
English Professor ] ohn 
McDonnell told the audience 
that academic freedom is too 
important to be left to tenure. 
He said the tool of tenure 
becomes a principle if it is 
insensitive to the higher goals 
of knowledge and wisdom. 
He added that tenure tends 
to promote an intellectual con· 
servatism, and can leave pro­. fessors ''psychologically stuck'' at an institution. Robert Burns, associate dean 
• • . Issues 
[continued from page 1] 
American people have lost con­fidence in President ] immy Carter." 
This loss of confidence re­suits in an inability for the Congress and the president to work in harmony. He cited SALT II as an example. In response to the question, ''What is the feeling on Capitol Hill about SALT II?'' Anderson responded that most Congress­men favored some sort of treaty, but not the one that the President has negotiated. . Regarding South Korea, Anderson said that he did not anticipate trouble. · Americans would not be called in, the problem is internal, h~· said. · Throughout his talk, Anderson seemed to be calling room space or other facilities. Many classes will not be check­marked, but it will be noted in the Preliminary Course Sched­uling Booklet at what point the class fills up. 

Sullivan noted, however, that there may be unrealistic de­mands for newly-opened classes and some students will not be able to take the class which they desire. In this event, the student would either add an alternate class in ] anuary or, if there were enough extra students, another section of the class would be opened if possible. This would vary from department to de­panment. 
Because there will be fewer checkmarked courses, there will be shorter lines for com­puter cards. 
''This is one of the reasons that I wanted to see the checkmark system cut back,'' Sullivan explained. "Too many students were sleeping out for cards to get into electtves." 
of Ans and Letters, discussed improvement opportunities for the progression of faculty de­faculty members. velopment in light of tenure. Professional development is He gave a brief outline of the seen in improved research and history of faculty development, publication, while personal de­and divided his discussion into velopment is evidenced psycho-faculty development as both 
[continued on page 6]

personal and professional 
MORRISON-KNUDSEN COMPANY, INC. ·Designers, engineers, builders, managers and 
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYERS... 
worldwide 


ENGINEERS WANTED 
By Morrison-Knudsen Company, Inc. to Suppon Construction and what a better way to help today's growing world and to build for tomorrow's generations by leaving something concrete behind! Morrison-Knudsen's Corporate Engineering Department has superior engineers with the experience and expertise to do it all-from dams, off-shore islands outfalls, pipeline-s and pflwer plants to t~nnels and even concre.te _cities-you nam~ it and chances are w~ have done It almost ·everywhere Withm North Amenca, the Arctic, Indonesia and the Middle East to name a few. 
Morrison-Knudsen's constant success world wide continues to be attributable to the retainment and development of the most qualified individuals willing to walk that extra mile. 
Ifconstruction and engineering are in your future, we want to talk to you. See your placement director about arrangements for a personal interview with one of our Personal Representatives. If you have additional questions we will be glad to answer them for you. Morrison"Knudsen ~epresentatives wil.be here 
Oil N<.werrober 1 and 2. your resume to.  If you are unable t'o meet with our representative send  
Pamela Walton  
Recruiting Manager Corporate Engineering Department Two Morrison-Knudsen Plaza·  
P. 0. Box 7808  
Boise, Idaho  83729  

Sophomores present Campuswide 
"Students will have to be realistic in their choices and refer to the guidelines in the Course Scheduling Booklet," Sullivan said. ''A sophomore business major should not ex­pect to get into a (non-business elective) class whiCh closes out after majors and other seniors choose it." 
The elimination of checkmark courses is not a new idea, but a reverse trend, going back to when classes were not checked at all. Sullivan said that he felt there was an easier way for students to pre-register and suggested that the University totally eliminate checkmarking. 
"Many departments stren­uously objected to this idea and proved that cenain classes need controls on the size of sections, such as lab classes," Sullivan noted. "They did review the system and some departments did make changes." 
The only new thing about registration will be the "opscan sheets'' which will be sent to students sometime next W{ ·k. They are the same as a form 50 on the upper half, but the lower half will be a section which replaces the non-checkmarked computer cards. 
In the past, students had to pick up these cards at ~he Stepan Center and fill them out. Now students will fill out 'he appropriate data on the sheet and turn it in with any check­mark cards as they complete registration. 
Sullivan stressed the fact that there will still be some check­marked courses, but. that these will be reduced in number. The Preliminary Course Scheduling Booklet will be available in all Dean's Offices on Nov. 6. Pre-registration begins on Nov. 8. 
"I think it's going to work," said Sullivan, ''but students must be reali.stic in their selec­tions and follow the instructions 
on  the form 50.  Registration  
should be quite  a  bit simpler  
this year. "  




The Observer Wednesday, October 31, 1979 -page 6 
\BRIDGET'S 
presents 
HALLOWEEN HAPPY HOUR 
pile•• t"' anyon• In coatum• 
Thuta Nlw Tooh•y'a Party T -Shilts will b• taffl•d iooh•y'a foe Two 
Halloween costume Party Oct 31' 1979 
Molson Golden Ale 
7pm-10pm 2/$1.00 l~m-3am $.75 each 
prizes For The Best Costumes 
Friday is last day 
for sign up in 

Your Future 

Is Our Future 
Guy F. Atkinson Co. i~ one of the world's largest construction firms with an outstanding record of achievement and a reputation for integrity that is second to none. 
The professional development of our employees has been the foundation of our success. Many of the management people who have been responsible for that success were employed through our college relations program. 
If you're ready for chdllenge and intend to develop to your mdximum potential, come dnd talk with us. We will be interview'ng Seniors who will receive th~ir BS degrees this fall, for career positions in these areas: 
Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering Business Management 
November 5, 1979 
G­
Contact your placement center for infor­mation and a personal appointment. 
an equal opportunity employer. 
itkinsonco. 

'Monster Mash' today 
Class of '82 announces events 
Vs. Philadelphia 
Judge dismisses suit 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -A federal jud~e yesterday dismis­sed the maJor part of the]ustice DeJ?artment' s unprecedented pollee brutalii:v lawsuit against the city of Philadelphia, its mayor and 19 top offiCials. 
The action by U.S. District Court Judge J. William Ditter, Jr. means "The case is over," said City Solicitor Sheldon B. Albert. 
Ditter said that the U.S. attorney genera~ "has no stand­ing before this court when he seeks to advance the civil rights of third persons'' without con­gressional authorization. 
The judge said that there may be instances in which "some civil rishts violations cannot be effectively redressed by the victim.'' 
In that case, Ditter said Congress may find it appropri­ate to enact legislation permit­ting the attorney general to brio~ such suits. , 
Ditter, however, let stand a portion of the suit dealing with alleged discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin in federally funded police programs. 

The civil complaint, filed in August, alleged that the defen­dants condoned widespread po­lice abuse that deprived citizens of their constitutional rights. 
The complaint, which was personally signed by then­Attorney General Griffin B. Bell, alleged that police abuse was "arbitrary, unreasonable or shocking to the conscience.'' 
Mayor Frank L. Rizzo, a policeman for 28 years before he became the city'"s mayor in 1972, had stoutly defended the 8,085 officers and 890 civilians in the nation's fourth largest police force. 
Rizzo blamed the lawsuit on politics, a claim that was denied by the]ustice DepartmeOf. 
At the time the complaint was filed, a]ustice Department official said authorities believed they had evidence of intimida­tion of people by Philadelphia poli~e~e~ a~d the coverup of ~he mtrm1dat1on by their super­IOrs. 

bring their own albums to be 
plared and a costume contest 
wil be featured with prizes to 
be announced. 

Bruemmer explained this 
event is one of many to raise 
money for the class. "Since no 
money is appropriated for class 
activities, we're already in 
debt?" he ~t~t.ed. Although 
prevtous actiVIties, such as an 
Ice cream social, a picnic, 
concession stand, and showing 
of the movie "Dog Day After­
noon," received good turnouts, 
the receipts were not enough to 
produce a profit. 

"the 'Monster Mash' is an­
other chance for the class to 
make money,'' Bruemmer com­
mented. 

Future activities for the sopho­
mores include a formal in late 
February; sponsorship of a 
comedy film festival featuring 
the Marx Brothers, Abbot and 
Costello, and Laurel and Hardy, 
and a computer Dance. 

A ''difftt ent type of happy hour," is promised during Fri­day's "Happy Hayride," spon­sored by the SMC sophomore class at Diamond Ranch. Casso­polis, MI, from 5 until.8 p.m., according· to Leslie Griffith, class president. 
Tickets are $3, but only 120 are available. The price in­cludes hot dogs, marshmal­lows, beverages, and mun­chies. Buses leave from Holy Cross Circle at SMC between 5 and 6 p.m., and will return between 8 and 9 p.m. Partici­pants are advised to bring blankets. 
''Since the amount of tickets is limited, this should be a differ­ent type of happy hour," Grif­fith explained. Profits may be used for Sophomore Parents Weekend, an outdoor semi-for­mal, or a special Christmas Pr<'iect. 
"Our major events have turned out well this year and we hope to promote more commun­ity sponsored events," Griffith stated. 
Upcoming functions include an after game pizza party or ice--cream social Tuesday, Dec. 4, when the Belles play the Irish at Angela Athletic Facility. Combined events for both ND­SMC sophomore classes are a possible ice skating party in early December at the ACC and a semi-formal this spring. 
• • .Tenure 
[continued from page 5] 

logically. Burns called for a faculty ·development program here to provide personal and professional opportunities for faculty members. 
Fr. Enda McDonagh of the Theology Department delivered a European reaction to the tenure system in America. McDonagh, a native Irishman, said that most European pro­fessors are state ennployees because most schools are fund­ed by the state. The mobility of faculty comes through the pro­motion from lecturer to profes­sor, a position from which it is "almost impossible" to be dis­missed. 
Frequently, a professor is named from outside the institu­tion and is often a foreigner, he said. 
McDonagh said he thought this system is good because 
[continued on page 11] 
by Mary Agnes Carey 

Stepan Center is the site for this evening's "Monster Mash," a Halloween event co-sponsored by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Sophomore classes from 9:30 p.m. to 1:30 
a.m. Admission is $1 is in costume and $2 if not, with soda, pretzels, and candy corn included. 
A DJ will be featured but "No disco music is allowed " accor­ding to sophomore cla~s presi­dent, Steve Bruemmer. Accor­ding to Bruemmer, although the sophomoreclasses are spon­sonng the event, anyone is welcome. Participants can 



~----------------------------------------------------·--­
-----------------------------------------------------. 
Editorials 
Wednesday, October 31, 1979 -page 1 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

~~"' 
aJE.S ANION&

'!~~~~e re:~P;!~in~~~\)i~:~~{ei~~ 
Christian values and as £>rmer memhe Naval ROTC, we would like to comment on both out own experience of ROTC and the Christian view of the military. ...·.· . . c 
It has been suggested that RQTC e represents or . promotes un"Christia!l ·Such has not been our exp•!'rience. D\it1 years .that we were associar~d :with ~()'r ~ •...•......··• were tmpressed by the etlu~l qualtty. or the officers m charge. Members o£. the wnt were encouraged to participate in activit.ie~th!lt,wotil.d.···.. ·help them grow to become ~er ..•. d:.ua!s.;.·
.fu.·. 
1ndiV1 

and there were several urntw1de commun1ty . Hln'liii•t>v• service ~rojects, indudi~g YMCA ~toting< and 


an Amencan Cancer Soaety fund drtve. Masses were celebrated in an attempt to promote 
~ 
0~

Christian unity among midshipmen. In terms. of 
WV& GOT48

Q!;;4Y, 7HIS IS
fostering Christian values, we StJ.Specnhat tllP§t; 
59WfJS. tve've
campus organizations would fall ··short of(at least the Naval) ROTC efforts. 
It has been objected that ''ROTC teaches Dame rPI-r~iinh' nttl"rs people to kill." Put more accurately and less educations in the . . polemically, it is true that in the course of To chastise ROTC for abuses of the military cal) carrying out their responsibility, some members be likened to n:;quest~ng the dosing .pf .the. ofthe military may be called upon to take human College Qf 6u~tnes.s l:iecause 9f .gn~t~~~~:life; part of the training of military leaders · pracnces ()f J1lUltH.latto~al corporatiQD:s' .Jp: PJ!(:Jt:]\necessarily includes ·some Level of preparation, case, those who mtend to speak out. agatnst for the handling of that responsibility. The wrong doing are in fact propostng the removal of values reflected by a world [n which wars have the potential solution to that wrong doing. so frequently erupted are dearly not Christian values. A state's preparing wdefend its citizens 
in that world, however; strikes ,us ,t},2,~~-,M~••.,., -~, •ihi®iiiiliiiAM!WiiMllilidkdJilltli11f1i1Iiii!!hl#;ih,,i .. • 
P.O. Box Q 
Oarification Commissioners, they followed a Student Center, Recreation tial to the question of whether tradu.~ of previous Boards Center, WSND AM-FM, Cheer­or not a Catholic campus should Notre Dame awarding the HPC funds for leaders, Shuttle Bus, Volunteer support a military establish­
of allocations 
such capital expenses. Services Office and the Office of ment. The "holding of 
student body

Increasing the allocation when Student Activities. The Office Christian values'' by members Dear Editor: everyone else was cut merely also supports the Black Cultural ofROTC does not automatically magnifies a previous error, On Arts Council (Center), and legitimate or even make ration­
A letter that appeared in ~:he principle, the HPC ou~ht to be contributes to the Black al the institutional sanction of called on for help October 12 Observer regarding funded for Administrative Cultural Arts Festival and ROTC. As we are painfully Student Activities allocations expenses and act1v1t1es, Freshman Orientation. aware, a majority of Hitler's needs correction. The authors including An TostaL Beyond All of the above revenues are army also "held Christian val­Dear Editor: complain tgat Mardi Gras allo­that, alternative funding ought University budget allocations, ues''; that did not guaranteec:rrions were....cut. ~ardi Gra~· is II tr>-.e.-foH1ld. Again in defense not funds from you Student Christian behavior. We would like to address a on solid financial ground and in of the Board of Commissioners, Activity Fee which the Board of Newspapers nationwide have question to the ND/SMC com­fact awarded over $20,000 to it was my feeling that they Commissioners allocates. proclaimed the Holy Father munity: If you were out one volunteer and charitable organ­funded HPC because they felt "The Pope of Peace," and the night and you heard a girl izations this past year. that if they didn't fund HPC, Dr. James M. McDonnell Pope himself has given his screaming for help, would you 
As the Mardi Gras nobody would take care of Director ofStudent Activities unqualified support to disarm­respond to her plea? Of course Committee begins its work for social space improvements. I ament. How, then, can this you would. Then why drdn't the 1980 event, the Committee suspect much good will result campus continue to support a ·you? has every penny it requested:­from this controversy surroun­self-interested, self-perpetra­On Thursday night, Oct. 18, a
Is ROTC worth
slighdy more than $10,000. ding the HPC allocation. ting military establishment? girl was assaulted ten feet away Chairman Bob Morin hopes, in Channels of communication Finally, I would like to ask if from a party at Notre Dame fact, that this wiU be the most have been opened and discus­the price we can be satisfied with Father Apartments. While she fought 
successful Mardi Gras ever. sions have taken place. Several Hesburgh's rationale for w1th the attacker, her friend In a matter related to the letters ~bjecting to the HPC Dear Editor: ROTC: that students who called to people in the street 
Activity Fee allocations, I think allocation have already appear­would otherwise not be educa­and at the party for help. No that strong sentiment exists ed in The Observer. I suspect I would like to respond to ted at a place such as Notre one came. Comments such as: 
within the Mardi Gras the Board of Commissioners Dame can, by joining ROTC, "Hey, what's going on?" and
John ·Trimbach's defense of Committee to fund the will firmly establish a fiscal ROTC (Oct. 16), addressing enjoy that privilege? Can we "Somebody should help that Volunteer Service organizations policy which will prevent such both his suggestion that we say an education bought at that girl!" dido' t prove very effec­on this camJ?US as much as allocations in the future. Then, take a philosophy course and price is worth the payment? tive in thwarting her assailant. possibk. Thts. would alleviate the University and the halls that we ask ROTC members if When we consider that ancient The crime rates both on and some pressures from the themselves will have to come dilemma of whether the ends off campus are alarmin~ly high
they maintain Christian values. 
this year and our admimstration 

Student Government Board of up with the funds. First, I find the suggestion justify the means, let us re­
Commissioners which is faced As a final clarification, the that skeptres of ROTC take a member the Prince of Peace and local police cannot seem to with increasing requests for authors indicate that Student particular philosophy course who said He was both the way, do much about it. So why don't funds from over 50 clubs and Activities Office allocations ungermane to the ffisue, and the means, and the truth, the we? At the very least, do what organizations, in addition to the "make one ill. " Please be would have found it much more end. Is active or even tacit you can for a :ellow student in a Student Government, Student advised that the Office of helpful ifTrim bach had himself support, for self-centered ends, perilous situation. The way Union, Off-Campus, Judicid, things are ~oing, that student
Student Activities administers been able to verbalize what that ofa megabureaucracy that gob­
and HPC requests. the budgets for the following: course legitimated for him in bles moner, eats jobs, and could conce1vably be you. 
I do agree that Student Band, Band Building, Artists terms of the ROTC issue. exists to kil people a legitimate Activity Fees should not be Series, Chorale, Glee Club, Second, whether or not a means by which to educate Sharon Scheckel used for hall improvements. In Dome, Scholastic, ] uggler, ROTC participant does indeed oneself? defense of the present Board of Stepan Center, LaFortune hold Christian values is tangen-Vicky Dill TeriRost 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reponed as accurately and 
-The Obse111er.­
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief. ........Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ..................Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor..........Diane Wilson Features Editor .....Kathleen Connelly&x Q Notre Dame, IN 416JJ6 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor..............Ann Gales Photo Editor ..............Doug Christian_ opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor .........M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor......Mike Lewis Business Manager........Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor.............. ...... Mark Rust Production Manager .... John McGrath of the University of Noue Dame du lac an~ . the free expression of varying News Editor.................Mike Shields Advertising Manager .........Bob Rudyand Saint Mary's College. It does not op1mons on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Edilor .....Eilen Buddr. Controller..................Kevin Manion 
necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor........ Margie Brassd Circulation Manager ......Greg Hedges 
-------·-· 

-~------------­
Features Wednesday, October 31, 1979 -page 8  
Dos RevoluciOnes K. Connelly ... a small group ofother Americans claimed; rather, it is a Fuentes who denunciation of what seems to him has movedin on tbe American fiction transfers the imagined/olitics of his the inauthenticity of Mexico's 'instit­establishment. They come from novels to the real worl . utional' revolution. One oligarchy south of the Rio Grande ... they're Fuentes' father was a career diplp­was exchanged for another.'' Also bn'nging to Amen'can fictron a quality mat, so Fuentes spent much of his we!l known are A. Chan~te of Skin, ofimagination now missing from the youth traveling and experienceing whtch was banned 1n Spato for bein~ closed U.S. circle of wn.ters preoc­different cultures. It is probably that 'Communistic', pro-Jewish and anti­cupied with black humor, gray sex experience chat enables him co German (1967), and Terra Nostra and white gu•!t. They want to know perceive his own cui cure so clearly. (1976). everything the causes of man's Like his father, the author became tragic reach beyond his grasp, the involved in affairs of State, serving as mysten·es of time, space (f,nd con­Minister of Foreign Affairs and on sciousness, the alche~ of their art the International Law Commi~sion of Carlos Fuentes is one of Mexico's itself Youngest o the group, the United Nations. · flasbing bn!liance an in hot pursuit As recently as 1969 Fuentes was most distinguished writers,of greatness is 39 year old Carlos denied entry to che United Scares and Fuentes ..... labeled "an undesireable alien"; possessor ofan enviable international presumably, Fuentes' political (Mar­Webster Schott in 1967 xist) ideology earned him chat tide. reputation, and unquestionably an It was only in the early 1960's chat American critics and the reading artist of the most serious intent Born in 1928 in Mexico City, Carlos public took notice of Latin American Fuentes has felt the impact of two literature. It then became fashiona­-Frank Conroy revolutions -one political, the other ble to quote Borges and Cortezar' s literary._ The Mexican Revolution of Las Babas del Diablo was made into 1910 had profound and deeply pene­the film Blow-Up and Fuentes was trating aftershocks throughout all the person to consult on Mexican The Hydra head, the author's most aspects of Mexican life -religious, culture. The author has written many recent publication, is a radical depar­economic and social, as well as scholarly works on Latin-American ture from che author's prevwuspolitics awl cult 1re. Among thesepolitical. works. It is a mystery novel, and is The literature of a country caught ts Whitht: !,atin :tmenca? neither a perspective on the present up in such an upheava~ cannot ~e Fuentes has J.lso penned several political situation in Mexico nor an expected to remam passtve or rests­volumes of poetry and many siginfi­angry dynamic panorama of Modern cant to the throes. Carlos Fuentes, cant novels. Mextco. who will speak in the L_ibrary Auditor­Carlos Fuentes is as significant aIn The Death Artemio Cruz, thereium tomorrow night at 8, responded figure on the contemporary literaryis evidence of a disillusionment withto the various I?ressures of his scene as can be emphasized tothe revolution and a sense of betrayal environment in polttical activism, but Americans not familiar with hisof che principles that propelled it toalso i1 his literature. works. His appearance on thisa successful conclusion. According to Keith Botsford notes that it is not a campus is an opportunity that no oneDavid Gallagher, in Mexico, "he has"Leftist" Fuentes who writes novels interested in either literature orbeen particularily energetic in hisdefaced by Marxism, as Time has current event should miss.  
God In An Irish Kitchen Repn'nted from The Harmonizer Sherry Lynn Mummert was quire fond ofKeacie, volunteered Iowa, in which he grew up, Holding struggling men. to walk the two miles out to the farm Up the Ht!ls and Concerning Mary Ward experienced a tremendous with Father, and introduce him to the Ann. The latter of which was a burst of freedom, when after years of young wom~n. biography of the same community as · preparation he found himself teach­Although surprised by the appear­the first, except cold as seen through ~ng at the Un_iversicy of Notre DameJ1> ance of the unexpected visitors at the the eyes of one woman. to 1928. Thts feeltng of liberation door of the farmhouse, Keacie ex­.. firish It was in 1921 that the young Leo arose out of his sense of doing.... tended her welcome and invited them R. Ward first set foot on the grounds Something and not merely havtog co sit down in the kitchen for some of the University of Notre Dame. A things done co him, and at lase, he~)).Portraits tea, exemplifying the hospitable gen­rural farm boy from Iowa corn was making his own decisions. erosity of the Irish. They talked country, Ward had spent the four Ward believed his vocation was to~and other through the long Erin dusk, which previous years as a reacher in a small help his students achieve a certain was such a "grand sight," and on rural schooL He had decided on the balanced judgment, chat they might until As because of see the world in He 
Leo R. \\'..1rd •}(» 


poems 

In a small village on the western 
coast of Ireland, where the Atlantic 
Ocean mer with thunder the jagged 
reaches of the land, Father Leo R. 
Ward sac contentedly calking with 
;;orne townsfolk. They spoke openly, 
and told Father that before gotog on 
his way, he ought to see Keatie Mac. 
The year was 1936, and Father Ward, a relatively young priest on leave from the University of Notre Dame, was touring Ireland during the summer afcer his studies at Louvain University, Belgium, and Oxford. The times were rough for everyone, but through it all Kearie, a young Catholic-minded woman in her mid­twemies, had emerged as a symbol of strength, and had gained the respect of the other commoners in the area. She had dedicated herself co raising alone her four orphaned brothers and sisters on a farm outside of town. 
Joe, who according to the townsfolk 

midnight. hospitality 
decreed, Keacie then rose, wrapped 
herself in a woolen swearer, and 
accompanied her guests halfway 
down the road back to the village. 
Now, more than forty years later, 
Father Leo R. Ward remembers this 
stalwart Irish woman, walking away 
under the moon. The priest-poet and 
former teacher of philosophy, who 
lives in che Holy Cross House on the 
Notre Dame campus, recently immor­
talized him in a piece of verse, 
appropriately entitled, "Keatie," 
which can be found in his recently 
published book, Irish Portraits and 
Other Poems. 

Father Ward, who is now nearly 90 years old, began his writing career on Christmas Day, 1936, selecting the subject which he was so fascinated with at the time, the Irish "country commoner at home." By August, 1937, he had completed the ftrst of his two books on the subject, God In an Insh Kitchen, and it was an almost instantaneous success. Ward's desire to express those characteristics of the Irish, their simplicity, generosity, religious ties, and directness, resur­faced time and time again. In 1964, Father Ward reconstructed the life of the Irish he had mer during his visits to Ireland, and completed his second book, All Over God's Insh Heaven. In addition, Ward wrote two books 
on the Irish settlement of Melrose, 
priesthood, nor some 
dream, but rather as a result of the 
community in which he was raised. 
The strong religious beliefs of the 
town of Melrose had directed him to 
the place in which he found himself. 
Melro~e was composed of people 
convinced that God should be in 
conr inual co-presence with them. 
This "God-with-us" sense finds its 
greatest attainment in the priest­
hood. The community, its persons, 
culture, and interactions, created the 
atmosphere which inspired the young 
Ward to enter the Holy Cross 
Seminary in South Bend. As a 
seminarian, Father Ward recognized 
his feeling for the underdog, the 
dospossessed, and the persecuted. 
He attributes chis attitude to the 
environment in which he was raised. 
"I was corditioned. to that point of view since my youth." His mother and father used to help nearby tenant farmers, and Ward was taught to rt speer them as equals. 
Related to chis sense for people, Ward acquired early a feeling agatost the struggles associated with politics and prestige. "I wasn't a parry man," he states, recalling the rime a superior asked him which side of an issue he was on, and he responded, "Neither." 'In rime, however, Ward's sense for people drew him into position co cake a stand for the blacks, underprivileged nations, and 
perspective. 

attempted co train them co see man, 
his successes and failures, all in 
perspective. 

In philosophy, a professor reaches his own theory of life and in the process uses largely himself. This personal involvement can produce strong resentment in the classroom if not accompanied by a respect for ochers' viewpoints. Father Ward, however, possessed the respect for his students, which was conducive to the creation of a healthy classroom atmosphere. 
A manof great interests, Father Ward has devoted his life co his vocation as priest and educator. • In 1959, after travelling throughout the United Stares gathering information on the parish as an entity in itself, he published a book entitled, The Living Parish. Ward surveyed the develop­ments which were taking place in the parishes at chat time, including their liturgical life and worship, the Legion of Mary, Catholic Action Programs, family life and the community. 
For decades a wise and beloved teacher of philosophy and writer, Father Ward is currently writing and comp!ling a collection of poems on the ltves of several people, all of whom appeared unable co attain a goal and yet did. He hopes someday co add chis book co the lise of his books and poems alrt"ady published 

he Observer Wednesday, October 31, 1979 -page 
The Trojan -Irish Funhouse 
Christopher A. Stewart 
Well, the big game of '79 has come the upbeat sounds of TOTO's I'lland gone. USC vs. ND. Poetic Supply The Love blaring from Dillonabbreviations if ever there were any. 

Hall, people seemed pertly alive,TilE EVENT. A gridiron happening frenetic in their motions, taut andof cosmic proportions. To footballers ready to explode. On edge withwho take their game seriously, it's excitement, like a mountaineer lean­usually the game of the year. 
ing over the jagged precipice that heSometimes, it's the game of the is about to descend. It was andecade; more rarely, a lathe '66ND­unusual display, and one that I MSU armageddon, the game of the enjoyed very much. 
century. Where does one go from On Friday, the expected craziness there? Game of the Modern Age? ... 
started blooming all around campus. 
Game of the Millenium? ... Eon? ... The Irish Army peddled their STU Epoch? ... History of the World? 
S.C. buttons, in an effort to spark the It was my intitial ND-USC extravag­spirits of the more insipid, drab anza. All the hoop.la, the exotic and members of the ND legions. Theirmythic fanfare, stmck me as awe­efforts were enhanced by some some as well as quixotic. Barring outrageous garb, a combination of some unforeseen propitious event 
tacky t-shirts (ThePope Doesn't Like 
(like marrying a cheerleader and Trojans, or something to that effect)siring a son,who goes to -you gae:.">.ed . 
and Star Trek helmets, green visorsit! ND and becomes the next John and all. 
Huarte), it will most likely be my tast. 

Friday evening, attired in green 
On Thursday morning before the and determined to be as rah-rah as the game, I sensed a strong current of the next guy, I strutted mv stuff over electricity in the air, somewhat akin that chthonic geodesic edifice, to being consciously aware of history Stepan Center. As pep rallies go,becoming manifest before one's it was strikingly. forced. The duels eyes. As I pranced and danced between the Iri.sh Leprechaun and 
across the South Quad, listening to the USC Trojan of Troy on upraised 
School Project World Hunger Coalition 
By Ismael Muvingi Research Direc­as job seekers, and the government tor~ World Hunger Coalition treats them like migrant workers with no title to any right whatsoever. Since 
On Thursday, November 1, the the policy of the government is toND-SMC World Hunger Coalition admtt only able bodied men into thewill sponsor a ''Quarter Night''. 

White areas, this means that normal Students will be asked to donate a family life is not possible. The quarter each, and the proceeds will "Homelands" are populated by 
go to a specific Coalition project. The women, children and old peoplemoney from the collection thts Thurs­trying to scratch a living out of the 
day will go to a land school Mduka­overcrowded badly eroded and ill tshani, in South Africa. watered land, with little or no The purpose of this article is to government assistance. provide some information about the Mdukatshani is set in one such 
"homeland", Kwa Zulu. Like all
sc:10ol. 

other homelands it is characterizedTo understand Project Mdukashani, by abject poverty, malnutrition, poorone has to understand a little bit health services and illiteracy. Almostabout South Africa, and South half the children die before the age of Africa cannot be understood, unfor­five.
tunately, except in terms of race. 

The Mdukashani project is a multi­Race affects every aspect of South purpose project; the land school isAfrican life; politic_al, . soci~l a~d one of these projeCts. All the projects economic. South Afnca lS umque m 
are agriculturally oriented self-helpthe world today, unique because in projects and they include demonstra­the face ofworld-wide condemnation, tion plots, irrigation schemes, the use the government remains committed of a1ternative fuds (wood is now to an openly racist system. unavailable), farm and handcraft 
There are approximately 25 million training and the school for the people in South Africa; 18 million children. Afncans five million Whites and two The Mdukashani school is for chil­million Asians and people of mixed dren· from the poor families who descent. The five million Whites are would otherwise not be able to go to in exclusive control of the political school because they have to help 
and economic power in the country. their families make a living. The idea lbe last few years have seen a boom hehind the school is to integrate work with school and at the same time
in the South African economy, which reduce the competition between chil­is complex and industrialized. The dren and adults in the job market infruits of this boom have been reaped neighboring White farms. 

only by the White minority which 

In addition to academic subjects,enjoys one of the highest standards of which are also related to the practical
living in the world. But the economy problems of the area, the children is built upon cheap Black labor and learn such things as craft work, the system has been built in such a building, gardening, mechanics, irri­way that cheap labor will always be in gation, and admimstration. For the 
matresses were a welcome distrac­for the next, ·and most logical 
tion from the garbled cheers of hot-spot, Senior Bar. the emcee, who sounded like Captain I arrived at about 8 p.m. and w~ 
Kangaroo leading the Charge of the suprised to discover that our legen­Kiddie Brigade. dary watering hole was not yet open. 
I remember a football player Surely, ye jest, methought. A late utteriAg that eternal maxim-"We're arriving patron informed me that gonna whup thar' asses"-while Dan Senior Bar hadn't been open that 
afternoon either. Amazing, I thought,Devine resurrected last year's de­considering this was the USCbacle in LA, calling it "the greatest weekend.

tragedy in his~ory." . (What about Shortly thereafter, other thirsty,Dresden? Hiroshima?)That comment raucous and football crazed person­was a precusor to his contention ages meandered toward the entranceabout "the greatest comeback in and some of them wondered why Senio history'', an allusion to our stunning Bar was not open. To those inquiring ' victory over Houston in the Cotton why, I gave a variety of answers:Bowl last January. But how many -This year's manager is a"greatests" can a rational, God-fear­. philosophy major, a rather surrealing person take in one pep rally? 
Digger tried to enthuse us with a 
new twist -The ND Rock. This toady 
routine was supposed to spellbind, 
then intimidate the Trojans (I'm 
still not sure how), while 
showing "40 million plus" viewers 
what good dancers we were. The 
only rockin' I did during the game 
was from dizziness during the fourth 
quarter, when USC marched at will 
into our endzone. So much for our 
corporate imitation of Fred Astaire 
and Ginger Rogers. 
Having nearly been beaned by 
several feisty toilet projectiles, and 
.sweating like a summertime hog in 
Tulsa, I headed for an early exit. 
Once unburdened bv the threat of 
MT (missile-toilet) 'assassination, I 
breathed the refreshing night air, 
and contemplated my next move. 
With fireworks exploding over Ste­
pan, their din rebounding off of the 
Library like cannon blasts, I headed 
IUSB SERIES 
Friday, Nov. 2.. .....Antigone 
Sunday,_ Nov. 11.. .....Room Service 
Sunday, NoY. 18 .......Singing in the 
Rain 

Wednesday, Nov. 28 .....High Noon 
Friday, Nov. 28 .....The Music Room 
Sunday, Dec. 9 .... ...Blow-Up 
Wednesday, Dec. 12 ... The Producers 
All shows at 8 p.m: $1 admission 
IUSB Northside Little Theatre 
Nov. 10......The Return of the Pink 
Panther · 
Nov. 11 ......The Pink Panther Strikes 
Again

S1UDENT UNION FILM SERIES 
Nov. 14, l) ......Paper Moon 

Nov. 6.......Casino Royale 
Nov. 29, 30 ...... What's Up, Tiger

·Nov. 7.......The Mouse That Roared 
Lily? Nov. 8.......The Magic Chnstian 
Dec. 1, 2 .. ....Singing in·the Rain 


abundant supply. Backed by a brutal­practical work that ther. do the 
L .::. 7, 8.....Grease

ly repressive police force and an ever children are paid a wage, which helps 
growing army, the South African replace the wages they would have 
Dec. 12, 13., ...Midnight Express 

received had they not been at school.
government has adopted _and enfor­

So far they have built their own
ces the system of aparthetd. . 

school and help in the irrigation
Apartheid means <!ifferent t~t!lgs t? 

schemes. Because very few of the
different people. 1 o the Wmtes 1t SPEECH AND DRAMA DEPART­
children can aford it, a lunch program 
means the good life, to the Blacks it MENT FILM SERIES 
ha~ been . started to provtde the
means repression and exploitation. It 
children wtth lunch. 

means the division of land between Nov. ) ...... .Maltese Falcon
Although the focus of the Mduka­
Blacks and Whites, 13 percent for the 

shani program is to raise the stan­
Blacks who make up 75 percent of the Nov. 12.... ..Lola Montes 
dard of living of the people, Mduka­
shani more than anything else repre­
sents a hope for a people who have
long ceased to have reason to hope.
mass movement of the African people 

The project endeavors to foster Nov. 26..... .Hz's Girl Fnday 
into the so called "Homelands", 

human dignit)' and an ability to
which have never, and could never at 

sustain oneself where the govern­Dec. 3.......Tokyo Story 
aey time contain even half the 

ment had reduced people to nothing
African _population. . 

but a commodity-a labor unit and a All shows at 7:30, Washington Hall
Theretore, half the Afncan. popula­

native problem. $1 admission.
tion will alwa s be in the Whtte areas 




rhe Observer Wednesday, October 31, 1979 -page 10 
riil General Motors ~CAREER DAY 
8:30a.m. until 4:00p.m. 
Representatives of various d1Visions of General Motors Corporatiool will be 

*
ENGINEERING
av,,ilablrJ to rfiscuss career opportunities, PI oduct p1 ,,grams , educational and BUILDING training opportunitie~ at their respective 
divisions. 
Stop by before or after class and discover what could be in your future with General 'VIotors. . . . 
GENERAL MOTORS IS AN EQUAL 
HALLWAY CONNECTING NEW AND OLD BUILDINGS 
OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
Let's face it. In 25 years or less, the world of energy as you know it. will be entirely different. 
So will we. Today. we're a leader in the petroleum industry. And tomorrow, when your children are grown, we hope to be meeting their energy needs as well. 
We've committed 90 million dollars this year alone to research and developmentprograms that read like science fiction. 
We're into earth sciences. Mining and milling uranium. Solar research. Geothermal energy development. Even new technology to produce fuel from coal; and synthetic crude oil from tar sands and oil shale. 
And all the while, we're still looking for ways to squeeze every drop out of old oil fields. ~d 

us sends atfilS to Asia 
continuing the important search world-wide for new ones. 
Ifyou're also committed to changing the world, to making your mark on the energy frontiers ahead, we'd like to talk to you 
Write our Professional Employment Coordinator, today, care ofStandard Oil Company of California, 225 Bush Street, San Francisco, California 94104. Or see our recruiters whenthey visit your campus. 
Chevron 

Standard Oil Company of CalifOrnia 
Chevron Family of Companies === 
An equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. 
Vietnam's defense minister, Gen. Vo Nguyen Giap, was quoted in the Czechoslovak newspaper Rude Pravo as say­ing the United States and China are arming remnants of the ousted Pol Pot and Lon Nol forces in an unnamed neighbor­ing country for an attack on Cambodia. 

The government of Lon Nol· was toppled by the Khmer Rouge forces of Pol Pot in 1975. The current pro-Vietnamese regime in power is headed by Heng Samrin. 
In the interview published in the Communist Part newspa­per, Giap is quoted as claiming no Vietnamese counter-offen­sive was under way in Cambo­dia. He said only small groups of Pol Pot supporters remained and even those would be liquid­ated soon, the paper said. 
Giap, who is on a visit to Czechoslovakia, did not say in which country the arming of the ousted forces was going on. 
Interhall Hockey opens up to OC 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life organization will sponsor a 27-hour dance-a-thon beginning at 7 p.m. Saturday in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The couple collecting the highest amount of pledges will be awarded cash to be used toward the purchase of concert tickets for any event at the ACC this year. A portable barbacue will also be raffled off at the end of the dance. Each dancer will receive one free raffle ticket. 
Each participant must have a partner, and partners must register and leave together. 
A couple may dance up to 24 hours, butoncetheyleave, they cannot resume dancing at a later time. There will be a five-minute rest period each half hour. 
Pledge sheets and rules are available from Ed Knauf (3050), Mary Anne Hughes (1327), and Helen Evans (4956). 
Pledged money must be collected and returned by Nov. 16. 
Registration materials available 
Registration materials for next semester will be available for all Committee on Academic Progress students this week in 346 O'Shaughnessy between 8 
a.m. and noon and between 
2:30 and 4:30J.m. Students in 
C.A.P. shoul pick this infor­mation up as soon as possible. 
Right-to-life sponsors dance -a-thon 
Off campus students inter­ested in Interhall Hockey should sign up on the 0-C roster in the Interhall office in 

SINGAPORE (AP) -U. S. Assistant Secretary of State Richard Holbrooke said yester­day that more U.S. military hardware is being rushed to Thailand, Malaysia and the Philippines to strengthen the armies of those countries. 
In Prague, meanwhile, Viet­nam's defense chief was quoted in a Czechoslovak newspaper as saying the United States and China are arming unidentified forces for an attack on Cambo­dia. 
Holbrooke told a news con­ference here that the United States was again getting in­volved in Southeast Asia by supporting the Association of Southeast Asian Nations--Sing­apore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines­known as ASEAN. 
Asked whether Vietnam would invade Thailand, he said ''The Vietnamese have stated that they would not. We attach great importance to that state­ment." 
He said the United States supported ASEAN efforts to reduce tension in the region, a~d "_My _impression is.~hat the situation Is dangerous. 
''Thailand is the key to ASEAN and ASEAN is the key to Southeast Asia,'' he said. Only the President could decide whether the United States would be militarily involved if Thailand were mvaded, he added. 
Holbrooke told reporters he was pessimistic about a political 
solution  to  Cambodian  prob­ 
lems.  
Starving  Cambodians  de­ 

serve humanitarian aid, but the Vietnam-backed Heng Samrin government has refused to give permission to international or­ganizations to send massive aid to the population, he said. 

' the ACC before Wednesday, Nov. 7. For more details
I I Chevron Recruiters visit this campus Nov. 5-6 contact Tom Fromholt at 272-8219. 
~ 

The Observer Wednesday, October 31, 1979 -page 11 
S. Korew1 acting pr~sident names ne~w KCIA director 
SEOUL South Kon:a (AP) -be under the orders of martial In a major step to co![lsolidate law commander Gen. Chung the new government's position, Seung-Hwa, who is also army Acting President Choi Kyu-hah chief of staff. named a new director of the Informed political sources powerful Korean Central Intel­said Choi and top military 
ligence Agency yesterday to officials were cooperating in replace the man accused of keeping the government run­assassinating President Park ning. The sources said the Chung-Hell. leadership of the ruling Demo­Elements of the U.S. 7th fleet cratic Republican Party was still 
steamed towards the southern in disarray and was being harbor of Pusan in a show-of­ignored by Choi and the gener­force warning to North Korea, als. while a fourth peaceful day here The sources also said Choi, a brought a relaxation of the veteran bureaucrat who was curfew and other martial law prime minister when Park was 
restrictions imposed Friday assassinated, and two other 
night following Park's death. former prime ministers are Sources said some 80 top KCIA leading' contenders to succeed officials were being questioned Park. to determine if they knew of or Other leading candidates ap­might have been involved in the pear to be two former military 
assassination. men who were among those 
Choi appointed vice army closest to Park and served him chief of staff, Lt. Gen. Lee as prime minister: Kim ] ong­Hui-Sung acting KCIA chief Pil and Chung 11-Kwon. Kim 
replacing Kim Jae-Kyu, who was the chief organizer of the has been under arrest for the 1961 coup that put Park in . slaying of Park. power and the founder and first Sources said the appointment head of the Korean Central was an important move by Choi Intelligence Agency, while 
and the military leaders back· Chung has held a number of top ing him to take over the army and political posts. now-disorganized secret police 
organization. The KClA was a mainstay of support for Park in suppressing dissent and J?Oliti­cal opposition during hts 18 years of autocratic rule. 
lltstethe pride of Canada. 
The announcement said Lee would remain on active duty, indicating the appointment is not permanent, and still would 
Molson. 
• • . Tenlure 
[continued from page <;l 
professors avoid a1:ademic pressures and are guaranteed academic freedom. The prob­lem as McDonagh saw it was that academic freedom is "hardly ever" used by the professors. McDonagh urged that professors reexamine the balance of what a university should theoretically be and what it is in practical terms. 
The university should be seen as a "sacrament" he said, meaning it should be a visible sign of society's "pursuit of truth" through academics. He stressed the need {or a committment to this persuit. 
He also emphasized the need for the development of a "con­templative element'' at univer­sities. ''The university has failed ifit is not a contemplative center,'' McDonagh said. He noted that the role of universi­ties is "to see how things connect," meaning that finding truth is not enough, but that accumulated knowledge must be intertwined. 
McDonagh suggested that the heirarchial structur·e of the University should be inverted so that students have top priority. 
"It is the importam ignor­ance of students that must challenge us,'' he said.. noting the students' "fresh set of questions" as a stimulus for education. 
~tr You'll get a taste of

He suggested a more 
sophisticated" system of 
appointments to replace the 
a cool. green bottle of MOLSON GOWEN.TM current tenure process, in North America's oldest brewery got its start back which professors are evaluated i.1 1786. John Molson, our founder, wouldn't recognize
by their peers in a given 
our modem breweries, but he'd be proud of thedepartment after a six-year good, smooth taste of GOWEN.TMprobation period. Only tenured 

professors continue at the Uni­A taste that says Canada in every refreshing sip. 
ver~ity after the tenure decision 
Brewed and bollled in Canoda; i-'<d by Marlletlmporling Co., Inc., Great Nec/e N y

penod, McDonagh explained. 



J 
The Observer. Wednesday, October 31, 1979 -page 12 
Technicalities cause delay in directory delivery 
'·-....."'· 
-


Tenure policy was the topic ofdiscussion at the justice Conference last night. [photo by 
Ken BerumenJ 
CAL EMMERSON'S SUCCESS IN ENGINEERING DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT AT SOLAR IS MUSIC TO OUR EARS. 
It takes a lot of discipline to master the art of playing the piano. It also takes 9is~~line to manage over 180 engi­neers and techntcttms in such areas as oerodynamics, heat transfer, computer science and mechanical design and combustion. 
Solar's Cal Emmerson has mas­tered both. 
"Solar has a variety of oppor­tunities for mechanical and electrical engineers as well as engineers with MBA's," Cal reports. 
Solar, the leading builder of in­dustrial turbines up to 10,600 hp, is looking for engineers with back­grounds in aerodynamics, ther­
' combustion, machine 
·•· ··· •••• ·•· •.. . design and devel­
.. · · ·· t, com-
by Michael Onufrak 
Senior Copy Editor 
Is your campus directory lost or falling apart? Well, you're not alone. As of yesterday, the number of accurate, sturdr., permanent phone books avrul­able on campus was zero. 
• Where are the phone books? Well, that's a long story ..... According to Jim Kiesle, general manager and vice-presi dent ofPromotional Enterprises Inc. in Indianapolis, the com­prehensive, accurate phone­books will be on campus by Nov. 13. In a telephone interview yes­terday Kiesle told the Observer ''We are overextended on our time for completion of the work on the phonebooks. They were to be due in 20 days. However, due to some technical problems with some of our computerized typesettin~ machinery we have fallen behmd schedule.'' 
Kiesle said that he received information regarding srudent addresses and phone numbers Oct. 8. He noted that he had 


ponent subassembly and product testing. Engineers with an interest in rotating machinery and its applica­tions in the worldwide oil and gas industry. 
Solar is located in San Diego. And aside from the more obvious year round outdoor attractions of this area, San Diego has an extremely active cultural life -symphony, museums, ballet, theatre, and a number of other exciting events. 
We'll be on campus Friday, November2. 
If you're interested in getting your career off on the right note, sign up at the placement office today. Or you can call or write in confidence to Sheryl Sawchuk, Solar Turbines International, San Diego, CA 92138. 
You'll find working and living in San Diego is music to your ears. 
•

Ill® 
SOlAR TURBINES INTERNATIONAl 
An Operat1ng Group of International Harvester 
expected the informaton--which is compiled by University re~is­trar and Director of Printmg and Publication--by Sept. 28, but he was hesitant to place the blame on anyone because of possible computer foul-ups somewhere along the line. 
Promotional Enterprises has been publishing Notre Dame phonebooks for the past seven years. According to Kiesle the company has never been late before and is redoubling its efforts to beat the Nov.13 deadline he gave the Observer yesterday. 
Assistant Registrar David Kil said yesterday that he had been expecting delivery of the new phonebooks "by the end of October." Kil said he was unaware of any hold-up, and added that the phonebooks will be available in student resi­dence halls shortly after their arrival from Indianapolis. 
According to Kil the regis­trar's office compiles a comput­er tape of all srudent informa­tion relevant to the phone­books. He said that because this information varies from academic year to academic year, the compilation process is a lengthy one which always extends into the school year. 
"We try to accomodate as 
many srudents as possible by 
making certain that those off­
campus srudents who desire a 
complete entry in the phone­
books get them. We also try to 
accomodate those srudents who 
transfer on-campus after the 
year begins." Kil said. 

He added that all of this 
informaton was sent to Indian­
apolis ''at the end of Septem­
ber." 

The other half of the phone­
books' composition are the 
faculty and administrative list­
ings. According to Kiesle, this 
information is received by 
Promotional Enterprises from 
Carl Ma~el, University Director 
of Publishing and Printing. 

Kiesle noted that faculty and 
administrative listings had also 
been received by Oct. 8. 
FR.HESBURGH 
to speak and answer questions 
. 
1fl 
Flanner Hall Thursday Nov 1 
8:30pm 


, ._____:__________________________ 
... 
The Observer Wednesday, October 31, 1979 -page 13 

PI.AY PRO FOOTBALL ON MONDAY NlliHTS 
You can win from $1 to $25 in food purchase coupons this week. Just by playjng "Pro-Football" with us. You get afree game ticket every time you visit a participating campus food location. 
======Only At The Huddle====== 
So stop by any participating dining facility for the details. It's a great game. They do the work. You· win the pdzes. 
Game cards available while supplies last. Limit one game card per customer per visit. 


The Observer Wednesday, October 31 1979 -page 14 

. 'j·. ,·',":' 
I',·' 
·1.' .· 
' . ~ 

Steinbrenner tries to save Billy Martin 
ACROSS  28 Coal  49 Coconut  22 Greedy one  
1 Smart  scuttle  fiber  25 -hand  
5 Cry over­ 31  Picture  51  Legal  (help)  
milk  puzzle  document  26 Benefit  
10 Facture  35 In any case  59  Nerve cell  27 Foolish  

aid 36 Source of 14 Succulent energy 15 "-her was 38 Aberdeen 
to love denial 
her" 39 Club or 16 Cleverly cousin 17 Christiania 40 Estuary 18 Athlete 41 Those in 
Jesse masks 19 Get a 43 Opposed return 44 On one's 20 Those in toes 
·charge 45 Historical 23 Titled one period 24 "Play It 46 Face of 
Again,-.. a step 25 Beer 47 Brain scan 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


Molarity 
NEW YORK (AP) -More conflicts arose Tuesday over the latest Billy Martin incident. But George Steinbrenner, owner of the New York Yankees, indicated the real reason why he fired his fiery manager -to save him from himself. 
Martin, 51, who has a history of solving disputes with his fists, was axed by Steinbrenner last Sunday, five days after Martin was involved in an apparent fight in a Bloomington, Minn., hotel. The other man involved,]oseph Cooper, 52, a marshmallow salesman from Lincolnshire, Ill. suffered a cut lip requiring 15 to 20 stitches. 

A source close to the Yanks' owner said: "Geor~e is worried about Martin getung involved in more serious incidents. What happens if anoth,.: guy falls down and is hu1, more seriously or if a guy pulls a knife and kills Billy?'' 
And the source quoted Steinbrenner as saying, "I don't want that to happen to Billy, his family, to the Yankees or to baseball." 
The Daily Crossword 

© 1979 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
by Michael Molinelli 
[continued from page 16] 
Depauw not only won the Indiana State meet but it also was the only .team to defeat Notre Dame in dual meet competition during the fall sea­son. 
"I thin'" that DePauw will be one of the strong teams at regionals this year in Division 
III. We're just going to have to be tough and beat them this time," offers Segal. 
• • • State 

Carol Shukis, a sophomore transfer student from the Uni­versity of Vermont, felt the si:ate meet was the high point of the fall for the team. 
"It was a good experience because the majority of the team was together. We cheer­ed each other on and it was really encouraging. The unity was great,"said Shukis, a state 

winner berth.  at the fourth  singles  
Cindy  Schuster,  a  transfer  

student from Saint Mary's and runner up at the state meet with Tina Stephan in doubles com­petition, feels the Notre Dame team has a lot of future poten­tial. 
''I expect us to go to the Nationals. . I really think we have a strong team as far as depth goes. I see Notre Dame's tennis program as one. that will grow stronger in the future. As the sophomores mature in a few years Notre Dame will be a big challenger,'' according to Schuster, also the first singles player for the Irish. 
Both Schuster and Shukis feel coach Segal was responsible f1>r the team's success this fall. The duo commented rhat the emphasis on basic skills and drills in practice improved their 
games 
''Practices were well organiz­ed and we really needed the drills. She (Segal) kept us well conditioned," Schusler said. We were always running around the football field or the courts.'' 
The team will continue l?rac­tice indoors during the wtnter and then will move outdoors 
comespring for a brief season 
before the regional tournament 
in the third week of May. 
.. . Kickers 
(continued from page 16] 
With the St. Peter's and Villanova losses behind them, the Irish now travel to face Bowling Green this afternoon for a pivotal game in the rankings for the midwest re­gion. Bowling Green has an excellent shot at an N.C.A.A. playoff bid and while Notre Dame's ,post-season hopes ~e slim, a wm today would provtde a big boost for the team and the soccer program as a whole . 
60 
61 
62 
63 64 65 
66 
67 
1 2 
3 Capri, e.g. 
4 Whirlybird 
5 Uncle Tom's 
creator  
6  Energetic  
one  
7  Czech river  
8  Monocle  
part  

9 Tries out 10 Candy 11 Foment 12 Thick piece 13 Do office 
work 21 Above, to bards 
part 
Lifeboat 
support Right-hand 
man Withered Maine city Brainchild Unique 
character Ice server Cub Scout groups 
DOWN Clump Puppy or 
money 
29 30 
32 
33 34 
36 37 39 42 43 46 
48 50 
51 52 
53 
54 
55 
56 
57 
58 
ones Proprietor Reducing the value Farm buildings Act as one Step Taro dish Train sys­tems: abbr. More win­some Less exper­ienced Bomber attack -Grande "Waiting for-" Preminger and Graham El -, Texas Bovines Gave good service Gambling game 
Stratford's river Pheasant brood Actress Barbara Voice votes 
ALL .50'\15 OF COM/1EiffS ABouT EMIL'S NCESfRY. 08SC.EIIE PUA/5 AJJD ALoT OF ''eoiJ[) TIME" PHONE 
-
•

Flanagan W'lflS Cy Young A-ward 
The ObServer 
NEW YORK (AP) -for third, Flanagan collected Left-bander Mike Flanagan of 136 points. John, with a 21-9 the Baltimore Orioles, the win-record, had 51 points, and ningest pitcher in the American Gqjdry, the league's. ERA League, was voted the:: AL Cy champion at 2.78, was third Young winner for 19'79, the with 26 points. Texas reliever Baseball Writers Association of Jim Kern was fouth with 25 America announced Tuesday. points.
Flanagan won 23 games for It was the fifth time in 11 the American League~ cham-years an Oriole has won or pions in 1979, the most victories shared the Cy Youn~ award, m the league. He lost just nine and Flanagan is t e third for a winning percentage of consecutive left-bander to win .719. His earned run avera~e the award in the AL. was 3.08, fourth best in t e Orioles right-hander Jim league, and he tied for the lead Palmer won the award in 1973, in shutouts with Nolan Ryan of 1975 and 1976, and Baltimore's 
California with five a:piece. Mike Cuellar shared the award Flanagan collected 26 first-with Denny McLain of Detroit blace votes of a fossible 28 cast in 1969. New ,York Yankees' y members o the BBWAA left-banders have won the 
and was second on the remain-award the previous two years ­ing two ballots. Tommy John of Guidry in 1978 and Sparky Lyle the New York Yo.nkees was in 1977. second with one first-flace Flanagan, 27, won 13 or his vote, and Ron Guidry o the last 16 starts in 1979, and he 
Yankees was third with the won Game One of the World remaining first-place vote. Sc;ries, which the Orioles lost in Flana~an was the only pitcher seven games to the Pittsburgh name on all 28 ballots cast by Pirates. He was the loser in two writers in each AL city. Game Five,' and he appeared 
Under the point system against one batter in the ninth 
inning of Game Seven. · before the league championship playoffs. 

Flanagan started 38 ~ames this season, second in t e AL only to teammate Dennis Martinez. Along with Martinez, Palmer and Scott McGreXor, Flanagan was part of the merican League's most potent pitching staff. The Orioles' pitchers had a team ERA of 3.28, best in the AL, with 52 complete games and 12 shutouts. 
• • • Coast 
[continued from paf!.e 16] 
McCurrie. Monmouth blanked Notre Dame for 43:54 when Sami Kahale tallied on an unassisted goal. Mike Kai got credit for assits on all three second half scores. Kevin Lovejoy netted two goals and Steve Burg-oon closed out the goal sconn~ against Mon­mouth. · T e Irish allowed Monmouth only three shots 
Wednesday, October 31, 1979 ·-page 15 
ports Briefs 

Interhall needs referees 
The _Notre Dan;te l~terhall ~thletics Department is searchin~ for offiCials with expenence to officiate interhall basketba 1 games,Persons interested should inquire at Office C4 at the ACC before Nov. 7. 
Tickets rema1n• available 
Students still interested in purchasing season hockey tickets for the 1979-80 season have until tomorrow to do so. Don't delab because some good seats are still available. Packages can e purchased for either Friday games, Saturday games or both nights combined. Packages are priced at a very reasonjible $1 per game. · 
.
Rugby Club to meet 
The Notre Dame Ru~y Team will hold an imhortant 

organizational meeting hursday at 7:00 p.m. on t e 2nd 
floor of Lafortune. This meeting is espectally important as 
new officers for the spring semester will be elected at this 
time. The Rug~ers are also reminded to turn in jerseys, if 
they still have t em, at this meeting. 
Also, on Friday the team picture that wili appear in the 

yearbook will be taken in front of Corby's at 4:00p.m. The 
Ruggers are advised and encouraged to arrive early at 
.. 

j 
.J.................................................--------------------~----··------~4-­

Record at 16-9-1 Kickers win at home • • • 
by Gary Grassey night and as a result, the goals 
Sports Writer finally came. At the 21:51 mark 
of the second half, forward 

Well, it's nice to be home for a Mike Mai chipped a pass over change. Maybe the return to the Chicago defense to Kevin the friendly confines of the Lovejoy. From there, Lovejoy, Golden Dome was just what the team's premier scorer, Notre Dame's soccer players booted a shot past Maroon needed to get :heir minds back goalie John Condas (17 saves) into a winning frame after last for a 1-0 lead. week's very forgettable losses The lead was short-lived, how­in ~ew Jersey and Pennsyl­ever, as a defensive miscue by vanta. freshman Mark Luetkehans 
Last night the Irish (16-9-1) gave Chicago's Ki Myong Hong returned to winning form with a a breakaway. Hong side­well-played 3-1 victory over the stepped Irish goalie John Milli­University of Chicago (4-5). gan and knotted the score with Although it took some 60 min­19:55 left to play. utes for Notre Dame to finally Sabitus later mentioned, "It's put the ball in the net, the Irish funny, you can't score goals performed much more efficient­and then f'ven one goal isn't ly on offense than in their enough--one little misplay and previous setbacks. the ball's back in the net." 
"We looked good tonight," Six minutes later, Jim Sabitus said coach Rich Hunter. "We showed what a little patience didn't put the ball in the net in could do when he neatly placed the first half, bur we passed and a headball past Condas for the moved the ball well." clincher. Lovejoy got an assist 
Co-captain Jim Sabirus, who on the play for. his throw-in notched the game-winning goal from the corner. yesteday, stared, "I guess it Sami Kahale closed the door 
(goal scoring) gets to be a on the Maroons with an insur­mental thing after a while. You ance goal 4:01 before time look up at the scoreboard at expired off a Matt Stolwyk halftime and you see the score's corner kick. After his subpar still 0-0 and you start to panic." performance on the east coast, 
"Once you start to panic, you the goal last night brought a rush things. It didn't happen much needed sigh of relief to by Gary Grassey tonight, though." Kahale. "I wanted to play good Sports Writer 
"It might have been a mental tonight to prove something to thing last week," added Kevin myself,'' commented the soph­Things were beginning to look Lovejoy. ''I know that playing omore forward. "I had been brighter for Rich Hunter's four games in four days, you losing my confidence, it Notre Dame soccer team. The just can't emotionally get up to seemed, every other game." afternoon before break, the play every night." Fighting Irish whitewashed
[continued on page 14]

Notre Dame was patient last Michigan State 2-0 for their 
Runners continue up and down season 
By]ohn Smith Country Championships held at erwards, ''I was satisfied with Sports Writer Western Michigan University. our performance. We dido' t run .. John Filosa led the Irish in the badly at all. II 
The Notre Dame Cross-Count­State meet as he finished sixth. Piane's satisfaction did not ry team enjoyed split success in His tally plus Tony Hatherly's last longer than a week because their two meets over fall break. eighth, Aldo Bartolini's 13th, his squad dwindled to an eighth While most of the campus Marc Novak's 14th and Chuck place finish in the 14 team attention was directed toward Aragon's 15th place finishes Central Collegiate Champion­the USC football game, the combined to the 56 point total. ships. Penn State came away Irish runners were fmi•shing Indiana won the 20 team event with top honors with a33 point an impressive second in the with a tremendous 24 point total. The University of Michig­Indiana State Cross-Country score. After the Irish came an, Illinois State, Western meet. A week later, the team Indiana State, Ball State, and Michigan, Toledo, Bowling did not fare as well, as they Purdue University to round out Green, and the Air Force finished a disappointing eighth the top five spots. Academy all finished with lower in the Central Collegiate Cross-Coach Piane commented aft. point totals than the Irish top 
five runners. Notre Dame fin­ished with 178 points.
Women'S tennis 
Despite the Insh poor show­ing, John Filosa continued to excel individually. He, again,
Irish grab second in State 

was Notre Dame's top runner, finishing in 18th position. Sim­by Beth Huffman minute illnesses,'' commented ilarly, Hatherly was next in line Women's Sports Editor first year coach Jory Segal. The ofIrish finishers. Carl Bicicchi, kids really worked hard, but we Bartolini and Matt Cato also 
The Notre Dame women's need to put even more effort contributed to the scoring. tennis squad wrapped up its fall toward our next goal, which is Piane was quite pleased with season with a second place Regionals. We're really going Filosa's running 10 both the finish at the Indiana State to have to be tough for that." State and Central Collegiate Tournament, but the team's The Irish· notched some impres­meets. He also cited the com­emotional high is carrying it sive tournament wins through­mendable job that Matt Cato into winter practices in prepara­out the season besides takmg turned in at the latter competi­tion for the Regional tourna­the runner-up title in the Hoos­..&ion. ment next spring. ier tourney. Headlining the Asked about the team's chan­
The Irish captured three sin~­major victories was a first-place ces in the quickly approaching 
-les titles at the state compeu­tie with Saint Mary's in the District meet, Piane responded, tion, but because of the second ND/SMC Invitational. The ''The team has been training place finish, Notre Dame will be team also managed a fourth well, but they just haven't been able to send a full squad of six place finish in the Irish Inivita­running up to their potential in singles players and three dou­tional. the meets. They better get bles teams to the Regional One team, De Pauw, has started if they are to do well in competition. consistently proved to be a the Districts." 
"Iwas"'very pleased with the thorn in the stde for the Irish. The Irish compete in a duel way the season developed. The meet with Illinois State this
[continued on page 14)

only problems we had were last Saturday at 10:00 am at home. 
".._.., 
Wednesday, October 31, 1979 -page 16 


eighth win in nine outingsin the every opfortunity to boot the 
featured game of the week in ball our o bounds and hammer 
the midwest region. The the Irish attacking corps with 
prospect of backmg into the physical play that resulted in an 
fourth and final bid in the abundance of foul calls. The 
region's N.C.A.A. playoff be-Notre Dame offense, though, 
came a realistic goal. broke down. 
The winning surge continued Hunter shuffled numerous 
as the team ·embarked on their substitutes into the game down 
first-ever trip to the east coast. the stretch including freshmen 
On Tuesday and Wednesday of Mario Manta and Mark Luetke­
lastweeks, Notre Dame met hans, but it was to no avail as 
Seton Hall University and Mon-balls flew back and forth across 
mouth College in New Jersey the St. Peter's goal mouth with 
and treated theirhoststo 2-0 and no one on hand to put it away. 
4-0 defeats, respectively. Notre Dame let their best 
There was a pattern emerging chance of the night slip by with 
in those victories, however, that 8:34 remaining as Lago mis­
has been alltooevident this fall judged a free kick from Tom 
and has always seemed to catch Croosty. But as the ball sailed 
up with Hunter's Irish some-past the Peacock netminder, 
where along the line. fullback Jerry Scala beat every-
On Thursday evening before one to the ball and neatly 1,056 fans at JFK Stadium in placed it out of bounds. The Harrison N.J., Hunter watched Irish did not get close again. helplessly from the sidelines at "We just don't finish it (the Notre Dame (15-8-1) fell 1-0 to scoring play)," said Hunter St. Peter's College (8-0-1) of despondently. "Just when we Jersey City. start to play a little better, we 
"We had some good chances--turn around and look like don't you think Indiana would this--lOOper cent goal chances have had about ten or eleven and we don't score." goals against them (St. Pe-The next night, at Franklin ters)," he commented. "Again Field in Philadelphia, Villa­and again, if you can't put the nova's Wildcats dealt another ball in the net, you can't win. blow to Notre Dame's soccer We have a tough time scoring fortunes with a 1-0 shutout goals against easy teams." victory. The setting was differ-
Sophomore forward Sami Ka-ent, but the story and the hale spoke about the team's results were the same--no r,roblems on offense saying, goals, no win. Irish fullback Jim 
'It's definitely not because Stein could only say, "we don't we're not trywg. We've been even get lucky. II missing posts· by inches all the With their record reduced time." . to 15'-9-1, Notre Dame's fate for 
Notre Drupe! in4.e¢p, had fh~ir ,_this season may have been chances. A(ter a ch,ar3;Cf;er.~Sttc-sealed. Any hopes for an ally slow st:VC in ·t\lq sub-forty N:.C.A.A. post-season bid may degree temperatures, 'the Irish nave been put to rest by the two established ball control sup-losses in the east. Wins ovtr remacy over the Peacocks. St. Bowling Green (ranked #5 tn Peter's passing game, mean-the midwest) and Ohio State while, became conservative af-this week are musts if the Irish ter Carofilis' goal and deterior-are to move up in the regiomil ated into aimlessness, much to standings. the displeasure of coach Soccer notes--Against Seton Mike Granelli. Hall (2-6-2), the Irish broke a 
St. Peter's could not even get scoreless tie in the second half a shot on net after the intermis-on goals by Bill Murphy, and sion as the Irish lived on the Mike Mai, assisted by Dannie Peacock side of the field. St. . Peter's defenders, in turn, rook [contznued on page 15) 
I L 







