, , , SM C increases tuition -page 5· 
VOL. XIII, NO. 88 
Candidates respond Carroll reps during open forum address HPC 
by Aileen Lavin by}ohn McGrath. 
Staff Reporter Senior StaffReporter 
The HPC met with members of 
Candidates for Student Body President and Vice-President fielded a Carroll Hall last night at a wide range of qu<:stions fr?m students _last night in the Flanner pit. meeting in Keenan Hall to dis­Issues that were discussed mcluded panetals, the off-campus housing ~uss the status of the parietals 
~itu~tion, plans for increased student involvement, and corporate ISSUe. JUStice concerns. "We don't believe students 
In their plarforms, all three tickets stressed a meed to increase are apathetic, we tend to think student involvement. Last night each candidate was questioned they are cynical. If given the further to specify concrete ways of bringing about this increased opportunity and led to think mvolvement. something will come out of it, the 
''You have to take yourself to the students,'' said Bill Roche, current will do something," the director of the Student Union, and a SBP candidate. "If you hit two representatives from Carroll hall council meetings each week, during the course of the semester srud. you could make yourself available to the students.'' ' Citing statistics from the poll
Roc;he al~o stressed the need for increased co-operation with campus recently taken in all the dorms,med1a while his running mate, Bill Vita, president of St. Ed's Hall, they emphasized that, of the 65 suggested a greater role for dass officers as a way of increasing percent of the students that 
student awareness. responded to the questionaire,
Dan Portman, another candidate, called for "direct contact" over 85 percent said they were berween the SBP and students. "I would have a column in the dissatisfied with the present state Observer every week or two. Response to that article would then of parietals and wanted them to generate feedback in the form of letters or direct contact '' Portman be reduced to a hall offense. 
explained. ' Many of the hall presidentsPortman also called for the establishment of a student government­pointed out that not all of this 65 controlled Security and Maintenance Board as a way of increasing percent would be willing to student influence over campus activity. 
actually participate in any move­Mikr-("Hymie") Heaney, commenting, "I don't put a whole lot of ment, even though they werestock in committees," defmed the role ofSBP as a ' motivator." "My dissatisfied. 
app~oach would bet~ reach out," Heany said. "It isn't that difficult ''I caution you against thinking making yourself available--but you can't do it by locking yourself in this council will get students riled the second floor of LaFortune." 
up enough to do something,"
He~ey blasted SBP Andy McKenna's response to University Pro-basketball player turned memory expert Jerry Lucas spoke Tom Paese, president of FlannerPre_s1_dent Fr. Theod?re Hesburgh's recent decisiOn to reject J?arietals in the library Auditonum last night. [Phot~ by Mark ~h.] 
stated.
reviSions, by remarking, "He should have chided the Admimstration The representatives stressedfor its continually antiquated view of parietals. '' the need to go beyond the normal Heaney, calling for ''grass-roots agitation,'' addressed the parietals channels to meet success.
Vietnamese border town
probleJ? by_ staung, "We haven't tried hard enough. We have ~otto "We are suggesting that it is start direc~mg ourselves to the ones who really run this place.' He time something less than legalwas refernng to his proposed letter-writing campaigns to alumni and falls to Chinese attackers should be done," Mark Mocor­members of the Board of Trustees. 
ski, Carroll representative, said.
He admitted that there is a limit to the actions students can take BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) -re,P?rts that the Chinese were "Anything illegal is asking hall 
~o~e~ting, "This is primarily a career preparation and educatio~ Striking behind a heavy artilfery Withdrawing or about to with­presidents to put themselves onInstitution and we can't ask people to get thrown out of school. " barrage, Chinese troops yester­draw. 
the line and that it isn't fair to
Portman, who is running on. a plarform promising a "fresh day captured the big Vietnamese Most reports centered on what them,'' Executive Coordinatorappro~h" to studen_t _gove~ent, also rc;commended a letter-writing border town of Lao Cai. The the dean of the diplomatic corps Chuck DelGrande said. 
c~prugn and. peuuon-s1gnmg camprugn to make alumni and Vietnamese defenders routed in Peking, Ambassador Elie J. 
The HPC as a body would not
~',llver~1ty offiCials aware of student concern over the parietals issue. some Chinese elsewhere in the Boustany of Lebanon, was told in be able to support any illegalBut if that doesn't work, we might have to show supppon through a border country according to re­, a meeting with Chinese Deputy movement proposed by Carroll
[continued on page 4] ports in Bangkok and Hanoi. Foreign Minister Ho Ying. 
Hall, he continued. 
Soviet news agency Tass, in a 
But Boustany told the Asso­The HPC asked Carroll repr~ · 
news dispatch from Hanoi re­
ciated Press in New York by sentatives to provide a concrete
poned the fall of Lao Cai 175
Pushes SALT talks telephone that Ho did not discuss proposal before they could
miles northwest of the Vietnam­
' 'military information' ' with him, pledge their suppon to any
ese capital. High intelligence 
but merely reaffirmed that the movement.
sources in Bangkok said the 
invasion was a limited operation ''What we need is a formalized
Chinese had thrust as far as ten
Carter warns Soviets 
to ''teach a lesson'' to Hanoi and statement, staring the form of
miles south into Vietnam, four 
that China would not hold on to protest and staring the legisri'-sATLANTA [AP] -President the Georgia Institute of Technol­miles beyond the deepest pene­any Vietnamese territory. 
of it," DelGrande concluded. 
ogy in his home state. tration. Monday, · Vietnam's
Carter declared yesterday that The Chinese have not said when Student Body President Andy
the turmoil in Iran and Southeast In a speech billed in advance U.N. ambassador said in New they will pull their troops back McKenna was at the meeting toAsia demonstrates dramatically · by presidential aides as a major York the invaders had advanced across the border. 
outline the proposed Campusthe need for a U.S.-Soviet foreign policy address, Carter 12 miles into Vietnam. 
new The Yugoslav news agency Tan­.Life Conference for the HPC. 
arms treaty, and vowed he will repeatedly and strongly rejected Hanoi claimed Peking's troops jug, quoting Chinese sources in ''The purpose of this confer­not let penpheral issues stand in demands by conservatives for were resorting to chemical war­
a Peking, said the Chinese plan a ence is to offer new direction!:-in
foreign policy that would link fare, firing shells filled with
the way of agreement on the ~ithdrawal with no pre-condi­dealing with problems and fn.s­
progress on arms negotiations "toxic substances." 
pact. tiOns. China will not link its trations,'' McKenna explaineJ. 
In a major pitch for the nearly with the Soviet Union's conduct Vietnamese U.N. Ambassador withdrawal with a pull-out of Vice-President of Student
around the world. Ha Van Lau said in New York thatcomplete strategic arms limita­Vietnamese uoops from Cam­Affairs Fr. John VanWolvle<>~ 
tion treaty, Carter again caution­And he told the audience of HanoFs forces had killed 5,000 bo_dia,, the sources reportedly and McKenna will present aed the Russians against meddling s0me 7,000 persons that the Chinese soldiers in the ftrst three 
srud. specific proposal to O.C nextin Iran's interru-' strife or taking emerging SALT II accord "will days of the four-day-old invasion, The Soviet Union, Vietnam's Monday night. 
make the world safer and more including 1, 500 killed in heavyactions that would widen the ally, has warned the Chinese to McKenna expects the confer­fighting Monday. 
conflict between China and secure. 
Vietnam. However, the presi­Carter said disturbances and Vietnam has now reponed its get out of Vietnam "before it is ence to open ::£ communication too late.'' between the Lministration and
dent stressed that he will press turbulence in Iran, Southeast own casualties, but the Thai In New York; U.N. official·s students. If the Conference isfor agreement on the new arms Asia and elsewhere increase sources said Vietnam has suf­fered more casualties than the continued private consultations successful on the hall level it willpact · SALT II -despite these rather than diminish the need for be expanded to a campus-wide
trouble spots. an arms agreement. At the same Chinese. Both casualty figures with representative~ of the 15 nations on the Security Council level, he said. 
''It is in our national interest to time, he said, direct of indirect and battle r~eons have been pursue tt even as we continue Russian interference in Iran ''will difficult to verity independently. about a J>?Ssible colln:cil meeting Members of the Freshman 
~ve serious consequences and As battles raged along the to deal w1th the conflict. Such a Advisory Couocil also met withcompetition with the Soviet meeting was not expected until the HPC to voice their dissatis­Union elsewhere in the world,'' will affect our broader relation­450-mile Chinese-Vietnamese 
frontier, there was a flurry of today at the earliest. [continued on page 6]Carter told a friendly audience at ship with them.'' 
.. 
' 
I ' I 

News in brief 
Police strike cancels Mardi Gras festivities 
NEW ORlEANS [AP] -Slllnsors canceled all remaining Mardi Gr~ and Carnival paradt.s/esterday citing a four-day police strike that has already dulle the traditional midwinter festival. Captains of the private social ''krewes'' or crews that sponsor the parades said: "We are not going to let Mardi Gras be held hostage by the· Teamsters." The police are members of Teamsters Local 253. Mardi Gras is a $50 million industry in New Orleans. Police union· spokesmen have called the festival "our four aces" in seeking to wring concessions trom the city. 

Utah House votes to allow media to witness executions 
SALTLAKE CiiY [AP]-The Utah House has voted to allow up to nine reporters to witness criminal executions. State law currently bars the media from watching a death sentence carried out. The measure, which passed the House 40-29 Monday, now goes to the Senate. It would ban cameras and recording equipment until after an execution has been completed and the body has been removed. Backers said allowing the media to witness an execution would increase the chances for accuracy and fairness. They also argued the deterrent value of capital punishment could not be effective without some news coverage of an execution. 
Meany refuses to quit; plan~ coporate price watch 
BAL HARBOR, Fla. [AP]-AFL-CIO President George Meany brushed aside suggestions that he retire and announced yesterday that he is mobilizing federation members to blow the whistle on companies that exceed President Carter's anti­inflation price guidelines. Meany also vowed to continue to criticize Carter's policies when o~ganized labor disagrees with them. He denied his attacks signity a break with the president and said he and Carter had a pleasant conversation Monday. "I think he (Carter) makes some mistakes and, frankly, I will continue to comment on those mistakes," Meany said, adding, ''The president doesn't seem to be upset about it.'' Meany sa.td he had promised to help monitor violations of the price guidelines. Meany said Carter had called the labor leader to ask for the federation's help, and that Carter thought the AFL-OO's plan to create a national price watchdog network was "very good.'' 


Weather 
Rain this morning, diminishing and ending during the afternoon. Highs in the upper 30s. Partly cloudy tonight with lows about 20. Cloudy with a chance of rain aga.tn tomorrow. Highs in the upper 30s to about 40. Chance of rain 70 percent today. 
12:10 pm--FllM, "rich & poor: what can we do?" ENGR. AUD. 
12: 15 pm--SEMINAR, "recent trends in antimicrobial therapy," dr. robert 1. devetski, nd, GALVIN AUD. 
12:45 pm--FllM, "rural & urban poverty: seeds of catastro­phe," ENGR. AUD. 
3:30 pm--SEMINAR, "aero dynamics, automobiled, fuel economy," j.g. Iafond ford motor corp., 303 ENGR. BLDG. 
4 pm--SEMINAR, ''the officer personnel management system,'' 219 ROTC BLDG. · 
4:20 pm--COILOQUIUM, dr. robert dorfman, u. of michigan, 118 NIEWLAND 
5:15pm--FASTER MASS, WALSH CHAPEL 

6:30 
pm--SAIUNG CLUB MEETING, 204 O'SHAG 


6:30 
pm--PANEL DISCUSSION, "morality & medicine," GALVIN AUD. 


7 pm--FORUM, medical career night for women, FARLEY HAIL LOUNGE 
7:30 pm--AMERICAN SCENE CUL1URAL SERIES, "new worlds: above us, within us, among us," sr. Pl:lula gonzalez, college mount st. joseph, cincinnati. CARROll HAll SMC 
8 pm--BASKETBAil.., nd vs. oklahoma city, ACC 
8:15pm--RECITAL, prof. william cemy-piano, IlB. AUD. 
10:30 pm--CILA SHARING SESSION, BUlLA SHED 


and special 

EXILE

guest stat 
Thursday Feb 22 8pm Notte Dame ACC All Seats Reserved ---­
---•sa.oo & s1.oo 
Tickets on sale at ACC Sox Office 
SUNSHINE & CELEBRATION 
ENGINEERS 
Let's be candid ... This.is.a_pitch. 

we·re looking for talent. 

At Magnavox Government & Industrial Electronics Co., we want to hire the best engineers and computer scientists we can find. If you qualify, and you're interested in a career with the world's leader in communica· tion sytems, Magnavox may be for you. That's because, in our business, an outstanding technical staff is the key to success. Magnavox has been remarkably successful because we offer small company atmosphere with large company benefits and challenge! 

Hence the pitch, and this ad. If you like what you see here, get in touch. Maybe both of us will be glad you did. 
WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS: Tuesday, March 6, 1979 
Please contact your Placement Office or send your resume to: 
PROFESSIONAL PLACEMENT 

Magna"VO~ 
Advanced Products Divi~ion (Magnavox Research Laboratories) 
2829 Maricopa St. Torran~e, CA 90503 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 
~--------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, February 21, 1979 -page 3 
Voting March 12th 

SMC announces elections 
SMC ElECTIONS by Pam Degnan 

The Saint Mary's Board of Governance annr•unced last night that elections for Student BOdy President, Vice-President of Stu­dent Affairs, and Vice-President of Academic Affairs will be held on Monday, March 12. All candidates must run on a ticket. 
Nominations will open on Mon­day, Feb. 26 and close March 4. Campaign platforms are due Sunday, March 4, by 12 mid­night. Three copies must be submitted to Noreen Bracken at 221 Regina South or Cari Trous­dale at 421 Regina North. The actual campaign period begins March 4 at 12 midnight and closes Sunday, March 11 at 12 midnight. 
The election polls will open on Monday, March 12 in LeMans lobby from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and in the dining room from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. If necessary a run-off election is scheduled for Wednes-


A.E.D. meets 
The Alpha Epsilon Delta pre­medical society, in conjunction with Farley Hall, will host a women's medical careers night tonite. 
CILAto meet 
CILA will hold a Sharing Session tonight at the Bulla Shed. The sess10n will begin at 10:30 p.m. and is open to all members and interested students. 


Mardi Gras gambling receipts top previous revenue records 
by]ohn Calcutt Executive Editor 

The 1979 Mardi Gras celebration closed Sarurday night, and Chair­man John McAustin reported that this year's gambling re­venues totalled approximately $33,000,$700 more than last year. 
"It's been a long half a year of preparation, McAustin ~omment­ed, "and I'm glad tt was a success. " 
In addition to carnival revenues, $21 000 in revenues were raised for Notre Dame charities through raffle ticket sales. Students won both drawings this year. Bart Nagy was awarded the grand proze Olds Cutlass Supreme and the Seller's drawing winner was Scott Sowell, who received an Olds Starfrre SX. 
Dillon and McCandless received a $50 award for the booth which raised the most money as their income totalled $3968 for the week. Holy Cross (ND) and Alumni-LeMans finished second and . third respectively; both booths raised over $3000. 
Other booths receiving awards were as follows: Best Booth--Morrissey-Holy Cross (SMq, Street Scene from Pygmalion; Theme--Grace­Lewis, Dante's Inferno; Struc­rure--Alwnni-Lemans, Pirate Ship from Peter Pan; Design-­Fisher-Augusta, Windmill from Don Quixote; Artwork--Stanford­Breen Phillips, Wizard of Oz; Special Effects--Holy Cross (ND), Mark Twain Riverboat; Original­ity--Keenan, Treasure Chest from Treasure Island; Committee Award--Zahm, Walsh, Papillon. 
day, March 14. 
Further information regarding election rules and voting policies will be published in coming editions of the Observer. Any questions should be directed to Noreen Bracken (5419) or Cari Trousdale (5307). 




BUCKET NIGHT 
at 

senior Bar Bucket of Beer $2.00 engravmg
Refills $1.25 . 25' extra 
55 oz. of fine draft TONIGHT 
M.A. IN PUBLIC POLICY STUDIES 
at the UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 


• The Committee on Public Policy Studies is a formal academic unit of The University of Chicago, offering a graduate master's degree program which fo~ on preparation for 1 wide variety of careen. The Committee does not automatically Ulllme that aovernment solutions are the preferred solutions to public policy problems. Ita prosram preiUPJ>OICI 1 role for the private sector u well u the public sector, in solving public policy problema, and assumes that public policy leadership requires an understanding of both arena and of the complex economic and social framework within which public policy operates. 
The Committee on Public Policy Studies offers a new two year program leadina to the Master of Arts degree in Public Policy Studies. M!Qor componenb of the prognun include Analytic Courses in Economics, Political Analysis, Statistics, and Decision Analysis; a fiiiJC of Applications Courses offered by the Committee and the other departments and prof• sional schools of the University; a series of Polley and Research Semlnllrs devoted to the scholarly, interdisciplinary investigation of specific public policy issues; and lntenuhlps in the public and private sectors. 
For additional information and applications: 
Dr. Robert Z. Aliber, Chairman Committee on Public Policy Studies The University of Chicago Wieboldt Hall-Room 301 1050 East 59th Street Chicago, Illinois 60637 

Applications for Fall Quarter 1979 will be accepted until August 15. 
In keeplns with ita lons..tandlng traditions and policies, the Unlvenity of Chlca10, In admlulons. employment, and acceu to prosrlllll. conslden studenu on the buis of Individual merit and without reprd to ~. color, reliJion, sex, nationlll or ethnic orllln, handicap, or other facton irrelevant to fruitful participation In the programs of the Univenity. The Afllrmative Action Officer it the Unlvenlty officilll responsible for coordinatinB its adherence to thil policy, and tho related Federlll and State laM and reJ!Ulatlons (includlns Section SOS of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, u amended). 
Any Undergrad Eligible to be the 1979-80 JUDICIAL COORDINATOR 
Applications available in the 
Student Government Office 2nd floor Lafortune Deadline Feb. 2) 

For further details contact Jayne Rizzo (7961-6413) Kristin Quann (1343-6413) 
Qantas introdut:eS new Bear Minimum Fare from San Francisco 
to Sydne)t. 
Fly Down Under in April, May or June and return between July 1 and July 15 or anytime in September and the fare is down to just $641! 
And if you can return in October or November, the fare goes down to a low, low $515! 
Yet you fly on our luxurious Boeing 747B's-the biggest jets on the run. 
As you'd expect, there are a few requirements: Seat availability and travel dates are limited. Prices vary according to season. You must make reservations and purchase tickets 45 days in advance. 

~ And 25% of the fare is non­~ refundable if you cancel within 45 days of departure. Call us for details. Better yet, bear down on your Travel Agent. 
Free! Brochures about "in" and inexpensive places to stay and ways to see Australia. Mail the coupon down under. 
I< 

------.--·----.--­

The Observer Wednesday, February 21, 1979 -page 4 

MAKE SURE YOUR VACATION DOESN'T TAKE OFF WITHOUT YOU. 
There's nothing lonelier than being left behind at vacation time. 
That's why we've got Continental Reps right on campus. Our travel 
specialists fill you in on schedules, discount airfares, tours and routes. And save 
you from calling all over town to get the right flight at the right price. 
Whether you're heading home or off to that special vacation, talk to your Campus Rep. Ask about our "Let Yourself Go" charge card too. We'll show you the best way for your vacation to take off. With you there to enjoy it. 
Your Campus Rep is Don Ciancio (219) 283-4682. 

The SMC Senior Class presents: 


Beach Blanket Boogie 

Beer 
prizes, 
Wine dance contests 
music:

Pop 
WJVA sound 

Munchies 
to benefit & D.J. Sf. Jude's Children's Hospital 

All refreshments free! ----, Donation $3.00 21 I.D.'s required Come find your place in the sun! 
,­

... Candidates 
[continued from page lJ 
demonstration,'' Portman con­ceded. "If the university goes ahead and confiscates ID' s (in resJ;><>nse to a proposed 'break par1etals night'), that's a slap in their (students') faces. 
''When they ignore us, that shows that there is no two-way relationship (between students and the Administration)," con­cluded Portman. 
Roche discounted Heaney's pro­posed letter-writing campaign to Board of Trustees members in protest of the parietals situation, remarking, "To try to use the Board of Trustees would be useless--if there's anyone more adamant about parietals than Hesbur h, it's them.'' 
"We have to explore different avenues (in dealing with the parietals problem)," Roche con­cluded, "but we don't want anyone to get thrown out of school.'' 

All three candidates endorsed a constitutional amendment that would place a voting representa­tive for off-campus students on the student government Board of Commissioners. Heaney stressed that the representative should have full voting privileges while Portman emphasized that the present off-campus commit­tee Is "insufficient to meet the needs of 1500 off-cameus stu­dents.'' Roche, meanwhile advo­cated the hiring of a full-time Off-Campus Director to handle 0-C affarrs. 
The candidates expressed sup­port for a boycott of Nestle's products in protest against al­leged improper pricing and dis­tribution policies of the company in Third World countries. 
Roche also responded to ques­tions about the apparent exces­sive of records at the bookstore, commenting, "Records aren't the only thing overpriced at the bookstore. Everyday items are tremendously overpnced. '' 
He cited some examples of excessive pricing, pointing to a bottle of 50 Bayer aspirin that sells for $1.14 in the bookstore. "At Ayr-Way, that same bottle costs 47 cents--that's a difference of 142 percent," Roche ex­
[continued on page 6J 

Doonesbury 
by Trudeau 
SORRY, BOSS, I /A/AS TRYING 70 Pf1T A CEILING 
HAPP~W ON 5Pl3NJ)!NG, 
• HERE, HARRY? AND 1HE fAJ/01.& 
The Proud Bird with the GoldenTail. 


CONTINENTAL AIRLINES e 
North America/Hawaii/Micronesia/Orient/Australia/NewZealand/Fyi/Sa.moa 
Close Encountets of the Fitst Kind Sighting 

---~-----~--­
The Observer Wednesday, February 21, 1979 -page 5 
Duggan reports on meeting 



SMC BoardofRegents increases tuition,salaries 
by F11en Buddy student body. 
Saint Mary's Editor Rank salary, the pay scale upon 
which professors' salaries are 
based, was increased on all four 
levels according to Duggan. Full 

John Duggan, Saint Mary's professors, associate and assis­president, reported to a special tant professors and instructors faculty meeting yesterday after­will receive pay increases of over noon results of this past week­five percent and compensations end's Board ofRegents meeting. will increase by at least ten The Board made decisions con­percent for all four levels. cerning faculty salaries, tuition, Part time faculty will receive a future plans for the proposed 15 percent salary increase and library and various other deci­campus hourly wages will in­sions concerning the faculty and crease by 16 percent, Duggan 
Andy Sowder remains in critical condition 
Andrew Sowder, the Notre sease, whtch has not been pre­Dame Senior who contracted sent in South Bend for etght meningitis last weekend, remains years, while interviewing for a today in critical condition, his life JOb in Dallas ten days ago, the maintained by life support sys­South Bend Tribune reported tems at St. Joseph County Hos­yesterday. pital in the city. The T n'bune article reported 
Meanwhile, officials investi­that Dr. Robert Thompson, Uni­gated yesterday the possibility versity physician, emphasized that Sowder contracted the di-(continued on page 2] 
REGINA HALL PRESENTS: 
The first annual Regina Hall Talent Show Friday, Feb. 23rd 8:00pm Admission: .50 
Moreau Little Theater, SMC 
proceeds to benefit the school charity 



1------------------I
I RIVERCITY 
I RECORDS I I I I I 
I South Bend's Largest Record I I and Tape Selection I 
I I I I 
I I $1.00 OFF I
coupon
I I
S1.00 off any album or tape with this coupon. Limit I. NowI thru March II. Not good on cut-outs, imports or other sale II items. Coupon must be presented before purchase is rung 
I

I into cash register. 
I

================ 
eND-SMC chetk accepted for up to $20.00 over I purchase amounr.
I I
el7 ,000 albums and tapes in stock now!I .why waic co chcx1se frufr1 a small seleccion? I River City Records probably has it in stock
I now. I 
I I RIVER CITY RECORDS I
I I
'l0'J70 U.S. 31 North, 3 miles north of campus. Open 10 to !0,1 ~day~ a week. 277·4242. I 
' 

said. The salaried staff (the this weekend. designed other buildin~s and administration) also will receive •• His aproach is a very demo­halls for various universtties in an increase approved by the cratic one," Duggan said. Wol­Indiana. Board. len intends to spend time on Duggan discussed the formation 
Tuition will increase $570 next campus to observe the traffic of a new position in the admini­fall for the entire academic year, pattern and hold open meetings stration--vice-president for col­according to Duggan. Four with students, faculty and admin­lege relations. The main objec­hundred of this amount is actual istration to hear their ideas about tive of such a position would be to tuition and $170 is a combination the library's location and the coordinate fund raising. "We of room and board. According to structural design. At this time a have a lot more to do in fund Duggan, ''The increased esti­definite location has not been raising if we are going to build a mated income for the school is 69 designated. · library and convert the old one," percent for next year." "He is much more interested in Duggan said. 
Evan Wollen, an Indianapolis building a library that is compat­The candidate for this position architect, was appointed at the ible to its surroundings, not was approved by the Board. His meeting to design the new li­a high tech building,'' Duggan identity cannot be released at this brary. The Board interviewed said. "It's his job to study our time because he has not been five architects and their work campus and talk to our people relieved of his duties at another before reaching the final decision and then decide." Wollen has college, Duggan said. 

Automotive Operations Rockwell International 

Rockwell International Automotive Operations has long been the world's largest independent supplier of components to the transportation industry. Our innovative engineering, precision manufacturing, and aggressive marketing all combine throughout our manufacturing plants to produce di­versified equipment for heavy-duty trucks, cars, and commercial vehicles. Products range from precision clips and fasteners to rugged, high performance axles and brakes. As the transportation industry continues to grow, so does its need for our highly-sought products. To meet these mounting demands, we have created many additional career opportunities for talented individuals. 
-· 

FINANCIAL 
MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 
REQUIREMENTS: Master's or Bachelor's Degree in Finance or Accounting 
POSITIONS: Financial Analysts These positions will be of a high-level analytical nature and will provide direct involvement, exposure and learning on a plant as well as a staff basis in the areas of: 
• 
Profit Planning and Forecasting • Investment Analysis 

• 
Cost Estimating & Pricing • Systems 

• 
Cost and General Accounting • Performance Analysis 


We provide top financial remuneration for top performance, and a benefits portfolio comparable to any. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ON THESE CAREER-GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES, CONTACT YOUR COLLEGE PLACEMENT OFFICE 
FOR ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEW DATES 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F 

-The Observer_ 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 

The Observer is an independent newspa­per published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either Institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all mem­bers of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on cam­pus, through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief ............ Tony Pace Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Executive Editor ........ john Calculi Executive Editor ...... Barb Lang henry Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mills Copy Edito~ ... : . . . . . . . . Phil Cac_lJ.? Satnt Mary s Ed1tor . . . . . . F1len Butldy-News Editor .............. Ann Gales News Editor ........... ~ . Mike Lewis News Editor ............ Diane Wilson Sports Editor ............ Ray 0 'Bnen Features Editor . . . . . . . . . Chris Stewart Photo Editor .......... ,Doug Christian 
Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin Business Manager ........ john Tucker Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rudy 

-~­

The Observer Wednesday, February 21; 1979 -page 6 
A C R 0 S S 28. Cheaa pieee
c l. Vivaeity 29. Citrua fruita 
R 
7. Britain'• 31. Fabricate~~, 
Court ofSt. -u atory: 2 
0 
12. water jua wd•. 
13. White pop-34. Over apin 
Jan 36. Destined 
16. In a ,ine 36. Jr.'s dad: 
s 
s 16. Starchy abbr. staple 37. Make a Jaee­
18. Sprinteo. like edging 
w 
19. 
Put astor to, 38. Renowned as rumors 39. Pod vege­

20. Levy table

0 
21. Newspaper 40. Censorious notice 42. Carry lightly

R 
22. 
Stalks along 

D 
23. 
Pungent 43. Compassion-herb ate 

s 
24. 
Exerts (one-44. Baseball se!O group 

26. 
Loot 46. Belief 

27. 
Mine pro-47. Supernatural ducts beings 




DOWN 

1. 
Beetle sacred to the Egyp­tiana 

2. 
Military diaplay 

3. 
Heavy metal 

4. 
Uncomfort­ably damp and cold 

5. 
Whether 

6. 
Moderates 

7. 
Lifting de­vices 

8. 
Winge 


9. 
Blemish 

10. 
Feelings 

11. 
Having sound 


14. Th,.ee acore 
17. Goala 

19. Pigpens 
22. 
Scatter 


23. 
Did lawnwork 


25. 
At a future moment 

26. 
-Alaska, frozen deasert 


28. 
Kneecap 

29. 
Door-fastener 

30. 
Caught by monotonous routine: 3 wds. 

31. 
Doll's "word" 

32. 
Utile 


33. 
Chatters 


36. Gem surface 
38. 
Excellent 

39. 
Messenger boy 


41. 
Pale brown 

42. 
One with a droll wit 


45. -mal!~e. in a group 
• • • Carroll reps 
[continuedfrom page 1) was not sufficient. Hunger Coalition (WHq an­faction with not being able to Chuck DelGrande, Andy nounced the showing of "CBS move to other dorms next fall. McKenna and the representa­Reports: Into the Mouths of 
Director of Housing Edmund T. tives from the Freshman Advis­Babes" at 8:30p.m. today in the Price yesterday told the repre­ory Council all said they plan to • Business Auditorium. Dunbar sentatives from the Freshman discuss the problem with Price as attended the meeting to elicit Advisory Council that no one soon as possible. support from the HPC for the 
Nestles' Referendum.

would be allowed to switch dorms An Tostal Chairman Paul after February 2, the date that Callahan announced another or­housing contracts were due. In ~ational meeting this Sunday previous years, students were m LaFortune at 7/.m. Callahan 
Molarity

given the option until the day of was disappointe at the poor room picks. turnout at previous meetings and The freshman complained that encourages all interested stu­by Molinelli they had not been notified of the dents to attend this weeks 
change in policy and that the meeting. letter Price had sent to rectors ] ohn Dunbar of the World 
. . . Candidates 
[continued}W;m page 4] 

would be to "sit doWn With the 
plained. · 

bookstore people and see if we 
Roche also claimed that, accor­
can work it out (lowering prices). 
ding to his research, book prices 
If that didn't work, ~ybe we 
are also excessive. "At some 
could organize a boycott.''
schools, the books are priced 
Portman advocated a need for
20-30 percent below the list price. 
wmpetition on campus as a
Here they are not only the same 
means of providing lower prices
as list, but in some cases, above (the list price)." for necessity items. "I think When asked how he would go there should be other outlets for 


about tackling the problem, anything that students want to Roche said that the first step bu on campus,'' Portman said. 


Yesterday's Answers 

"Is that cash or charge?" 
7'~ 
For the real beer lover. 


~--~~-~-­
Wednesday, February 21, 1979 -page 7
The Observer -Sports 
... DiSabato 

SMC Counseling & Career Development Center 
[continued from page 8] 
of besting yet another one of his own records with a strong per­formance in the NCAA's. 
Yet DiSabato realizes that a repeat of last season's NCAA performance will be difficult. 
"Whether I'm at 126 or 134 the competition will be very tough,'' concedes DiSabato. ''The quality and talent are the same at both weights -you're never going to have an easy match. It will take two strong wins to make it to the regional finals, and n~dless to say it'll be even tougher after that." 
DiSabato's biggest competition will probably come from Neva~­Las Vegas' Tyrone Rose, a seruor wh<. finished seventh at last year's NCAA finals. Bi!ly Fitz­gibbons, a Cal-Poly seruor who was third in last year's Western Regional, and Paul Feliz, an Air Force junior who was third in the Midwest Regional in 1978, could also figure at 134. 
DiSabato sees himself as seeded probably second or third in the tournament. "They take previous finishes, national rank­mg. and individual records into account when seeding, so I should get a fairly good seed. If I'm seeded I probably won't have to face another seed until the second round, so that will give me a chance to get prepared.'' 
If the preparatton DiSabato has had already this season is any indication, then he should be more than ready for this year's NCAA tournament. 
Buy Classlfleds from 
The Observer 
Recruiting Date Feb. 20 (fues) Feb. 21 (Wed) Feb. 22 (Thurs) Feb. 23 (Fri) Feb. 26 (Moo) Feb. 27 (fues) Feb. 28 (Wed) Mar. 1 (Thurs) 
• 
[continued from page B] these years at Notre Dame. He still likes to win one for the Gipper, of course, but obviously attaches more value to develoJ?­
ing winning people. Phelps ts justifiably proud of the fact tha~ 'only one of his scholarship ath­letes at Notre Dame so far has failed to get his degree. And, he r.>ints out the Gary Brokaw 
'plans to come back and get his last six hours next year. ' ' 
Phelps is equally proud that his 
program has competed at the 
highest collegiate level without 
turning Notre Dame into an 
NCAA outlaw 
''You either live with the rules, 
or you don't," he points out. 
"Maybe I'm a purist, but that's 
the way I was brought up by my 
mother and father. Being an 
undertaker's son, there are a lot 
of things you learn about right 
and wrong." 
So, as basketball nobility, he is 
obliged to talk straight to parents 
on recruiting missions. And this 






Classifieds 
Name of Organization Winters National Bank GAB Business Services 
B.F. Goodrich Whirlpool Corp. Aetna Ins. 
U.S. Navy Prudential Ins. Moore Business Forms 
• • Rockne 
is what he says: , 
"What I promise parents, is that their sons will graduate with a degree that means something. That's what higher education and intercollegiate athletics is sup­posed to be all about. That's the responsibility we have with these guys." 
Zahm hosts Lawrence family Mass 
A memorial mass will be held to­night at 10:30 p.m. in Zahm's Chapel for the late Tom and Cindy Lawrence, brother and sister of Jon Lawrence, a Zahm resident. Homily. will be de7 livered by Jon. All are welcome. 
Positions Available Major Desired 
Management Trainees Liberal Arts, Business 
AllInsurance Adjuster Trainee ·BusinessMarketing /Sales Rep. 
Acct. Mngt., Marketing Mngt. 

Management Trainees Business 
------~--------------------~ 

All 
Liberal Arts and Business Sales Rep. 
Business 
•• / River City Rec ~s & ' "i 
, Celebration Pn~ductions Present' 
. THE 

OUTLAWS 
IN CONCERT 
special guest Wireless 
Frida_y March 2 • 8:00pm Morris Civic Auditorium 
Advance Tickets $8.00/7.00 now on sale at River City Records 50970 U.S. 31 N. 3 miles north of campus 
and at the Morris Civic Box • call 277-4242 for furthur information • 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m .. two days prior to the issue in which the ad·is run. The Observer ottice Will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All cla~>ifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 


Wednesday, FebfU:ary 21, 1979 -page 8



S12orts 
DiSabato and wrestling: synonomous in Ohio 
by Bill Marquard Many people who regularly 
Sports Writer weigh as much as 150 or 152 will 
cut down to 134 for the NCAA 
teurnament. By the time they cut 
In Ohio, the name DiSabato is all that wt>ight, th':y' re exhausted 
synonomous with wrestling, both physically and mentally. 
which is quite an accomplishment ''On the other hand, my reg­
when one considers the caliber of ular weight is around 134 or 136, 
wrestlers in that state. so I'll be primed both physically 
Ten DiSabato's have graced and mentally. " 
the high school and collegiate If this season record is any 
mats of the Buckeye state. indication, DiSabato is right on · 
Yet, thanks to Dave, Notre target at 134. The Columbus, Dame's 134-pound co-captain, Ohio native dropped five of his the DiSabato name is gaining the first eight matches of the season prominence nationally that it has while struggling to maintain his enjoyed in Ohio for quite a while. weight at 126. Having opted to As a sophomore last year, move up to 134, DiSabato has DiSabato finished second in the since won 20 of his last 22 NCAA Midwest Regionals and matches, including the ten-match advanced to the Nationals, where winning stre~ he is riding into he placed in the elite top 16 at 126 this weekend's NCAA tourna­pounds. ment. 
This year DiSabato is looking Along the way, DiSabato has for another trip to the Nationals bettered two tea:r. 1~~ords he set and an improvement over last last season and has moved into year's illustrious performance. sole possession of third _{>lace on 

Irish tracksters lose, 64-62 
He will have his chance this Notre Dame's career wm list. weekend when Notre Dame hosts His 98 takedowns this season by Mark Perry amores took second in the triple Steve Welch was the only first the NCAA Western Regionals at · topped the mark of 81 he set last Assistant Sports Editor jump, with Notre Dame's Ahmad place finisher for the Irish, as he the ACC on Saturday and Sun­year, while his 31 near falls easily Kazimi taking third, to give them won the two-mile run in 9:10, 
day. surpass the record 19 he had last In a triangular meet held last the two-point .victory. followed by Marc Novak who "Although I'm moving up a season. With 68 career wins, night at the ACC, the Notre Pete Burger staned the meet off placed second. weight class from last year, the DiSabato trails only Pat McKillen Dame track team lost a close ri~ht for the Irish, as he won the Other seconds for Notre Dame 
decision to Indiana State, 64-62, IDlle run in a time of 4:13. Chris went to Ken Lynch (440-yardexperience I've had from last and Rob Dreger, who both grad­
year's tournament should more uated last year, on the all-time but defeated Bradley, who scored Lattig took third for the Irish, and dash), Tom Ferenc (shot put), than offset the weight difference, victory list. McKillen has 79 and 36 points. Joe Strohman took founh. Tim Macauley (880-yard run), 
explains the junior DiSabato. Dre~er 72 wins~ . "We competed well," Irish Arnie Gough turned in one of and Jacques Eady (300-yard "In fact, I should probably DISabato is only six .wins shon coach Joe Piane commented, the best performances of the dash). · 
have an extra advantage at 134 of the record 29 he had last "but we had too many people evening, as he won the high Thirds went to John Kuzan (shot because I won't be cutting weight season, so lfe is well within reach who were sick or injured. With a hurdles in 7.36 seconds. Fresh­put), and taking fourths were Bill like alot of the other wrestlers. [continued 01J page 7J little luck, we could have beaten man John McCloughan took Slatherly (440-yard dash), Jeff them.'' fourth in the event. Anderson (60-yard dash), Keith ''We had a lot ofgood perform­In the pole vault, Perry Stowe Cooper (880-yard run), Dan Cal­ances," he added. "We run with took first for the Irish at 15 feet, lan (600-yard run), Gough (300­
Hesburgh, Ryan, Hanson, 
ISU twice more this season, and six inches, and just missed yard dash), and Eady (high we should beat them both times breaking his ND record, 16 feet, Jump). with everyone healthy.'' in his final attempts. Mike The next meet for the Irish will

lobby for Title IX revision 
Notre Dame led 57-56 going into Noland took third at 14 feet, six be this Friday and Saturday, 
the last two events, but ISU inches. / · when they travel to the Univer­
The presidents of the Univer-and women in intercollegiate edged out the team of Chuck out team­sity of Illinois in Champaign to
Jim Slattery edged
sities of Indiana and Notre Dame athletics. compete in the Illini Classic. The
Aragon, Rick Rodgers, John Mc­mate Jay Miranda in the 1000­and of Purdue have called for the The full text of the Cloughan, and Jacques Eady in yard run, taking first in 2: 17, with next home meet will be March 3 
exemption of revenue-producing statement is as follows: the mile relay. Then the Syc-Miranda in second at 2:18. against Kentucky State. 
spons in the application of the 
federal government's Title IX . We jointly and publicly affirm 
provisions for equal expenditures our suppon ofTitle IX as the law 
for men's and women's athletics. of the land and its objectives to 
In a joint statement, John W. provide equal opponunity for 
Politiski breaks records in Irish loss
Ryan of Indiana, Arthur G. men and women in Inter­
Hansen of Purdue, and Theo-collegiate athletics. To that going to be effective over the
dore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., of purpose our institutional pro-byMatkHannuksela half-time deficit, yet Marion won course of a season. The NDNotre Dame said that unless grams reflect an intent to fully Sports Writer the game on a desperation women had it, but have seeming­revenue-producin~ spons are ex-comply. It is imperative, how-twenty-footer with :03 left, and ly lost some of it. A feeling ofeluded in detenruning the equal ever, that the final regulations No loss is easy to take, but an Irish turnover on the ensuing cockiness has hit the Irish, aper capita bases for men and permit the exemption of revenue-some losses are less easy to take in-bounds pass. What ever feeling that has resulted fromwomen athletes, the overall de-producing spons in determining than others. A case in point: last happened to poetic justice? 
their early season success. Nowvelopment of both men's and equal per capita bases for men Friday's women's basketball con-Well, it seems that the verse of this team can play with any that I 
women's spons will be "jeop-and women panicipants. Unless test between Notre Dame and this poem has been altered. For have seen (and a few that Iardized" by the erosion of their this recognition is given to the Marion College. In that game, the last couple ofweeks, the team haven't), but they will not, unlessfinancial suppon now coming role played by these spo1rts in Notre Dame's Jayne-Politiski set seems to have gotten a bit the mental aspect of their playfrom football and basketball. financing the overall athletic two school records by scoring 29 -complacent. Riding the crests of changes.
The ~;>residents also affirmed program, the continuing de-points and pulling down 21 a 12-3 record, the girls took on Last year, in their first season
their institutions' suppon for the velopmentofwomt>n's and men's rebounds, and her Irish team-Goshen College a week ago. 
as a varsity team, the Irish 
'="go=al=o=f=eq=u=al=o=p=po=nu==ni=ty=fo=r=m=e=n==s=p=o=n=s=Wl=·=ll=b=e=J=·e=o=p=ar=di=·z=e=d=====ma=t=es=cam=::e:::=b::ac::e::f::r::om=a~17~po~int Trish Albrecht and Julie Froese 
-· combined for 43 points for women gained a binh in the state Goshen, while no other teammate tournament, eventually bowing scored more than eight, yet ND out in the semi-fmals. Head 
Coach Sharon Petro is hoping to
could only manage a four point

Modern-day Rockne plays clean 
win. Last Tuesday, the girls guide her cagers back to the 
traveled to Rensselaer, Indiana to cami>us of Indiana State Univer­
For a school with the highest He is a glad hand, a wink, a On other Notre Dame visits to take on Saint Joseph's College. sity for another shot at the state
profile in American college ath­smile, a green carnation in lapel -New York in the /ast, Garden Amidst some admittedly poor title come next week. But thatletics, Notre Dame creates little and, as he himself might tell you fans have flashe signs with 
officiating, Notre Dame played trip will not be possible if the terror in pressure-proof Digger -sometimes a bit of the Irish unkind, distasteful references to sloppily, and lost by five, 67-62. team continues to play the way it 
Phelps. blarney. Phelps' father, who is an under­has been playing. 
Then came the Marion same.
' 'I thrive in a situation like Even bad conduct by fans taker ·in nearby Beacon, N.Y. 
The Irish head into this Thurs­The general feeling of thethis," says the basketball coach doesn't turn him sour. But he shrugs it off with day's district tournament with coaching staff is presently one ofof the Fighting Irish. "I can truly In a recent appearance at characteristic cordiality. 
those two consecutive losses, and disappomtment: disappointmentsay that I'm a man who enjoys his Madison Square Garden, where "I love coming back to New a 13-5 record. If they are going to at the recent play of the team,
work.'' his team defeated Manhattan, York, and I don't even have a get out of that tournament and disappointment at the lack ofIfever two patties were made Phelps found a disquieting wel­T-shin," says a smiling Phelps, (which, on paper, appears as concentration during games andfor each other in spons, it's come committee. He heard hoots alluding to the "Big Apple" shin though they should), co-captains practices. But no one associatedPhelps and Notre Dame. Starting from some New Yorkers who popular in the Big Apple. 
Carol Lally and Molly Cashman with the ·ND women, haswith the fabulous Knute Rockne 
remembered that he had left Digger Phelps is not your are going to have to get their given up on this team, or the 
days in the 1920's, Notre Dame Fordham eight years ago for the average big-time basketball remainder of their season.
teammates a bit more inspired to
has been "marketed" with elan, greener pastures of South Bend. coach, which perhaps is the However, ifsome change doesn't 
play.
and Phelps has worked l"~oecially Some saw Phelps as a traitor for reason that he has managed to come about soon, the women's 
~d at personifying tue Irish leaving the Rams flat in the remain so bri2ht and breezy all A team of any son needs a basketball season may be cut1mage. middle of a contract. [continued on page 7] consistent level ofintensity ifit is shon. 
,.. 
• 



