, . ....Sp_eaking..ojKegs_-_page-R 

VOL. XIV. ~0. 19 an independent srudem nev.-spaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21,1979 
¥4,Pkf4Zlf2& i?ilft~~~!?!hi&Mth&. ( .'" :·:W: 4~~~;."1·)~~-':7~~·· ;i~~¢:E,f.t;;-~-~t! '¥J-tt~'ff·l::t-~~·tt~fr-~~:":·-f.;'; -f~/:~-~:'_:~~~1~t.;'.~ :-~'!.7:t\·-.. ~tJ041(~#J§1\t'i£·,•!'4f~>¥!{ 1~R~1 *£4J. fr(k 
Broadcast precipitates resignations 
by Mary Fran Callahan 

Last weeks controversial bro­adcast of the radio program "Sex at Notre Dame" has precipitated the resignation of three WSND staff members and resulted in disciplinary action by Dean of Students James Roemer against Station Mana­ger Jim O'Brien. 
Roemer also cited a "need for expertise'· and recommended that an administrative execu­tive board be created by WSND to advise station personnel. 
The show's announcers, John Malloney and Gary Sieber, both resigned Wednesday night and were unavaible for comment. 
Earlier this week, Roemer presentei O'Brien with rwo alternatives. O'Brien held a 
job at the Notre Dame Fire Station and Roemer cited this as the cause of his lack of responsibility with the "Sex at N.D." program and station control in general. 
"He was trying to do too much. He was not doing either job justice. He did not follow up on the implementation of a tape delay system to censor offensive comments. He did not listen to the l?rogram. The program had obv10usly done its damage.'' 
O'Brien had decided to remain at WSND and thus has termin­ated his student employment. "I think the choice berween the rwo in this matter is justified. I think he(Roemer)was extremely fair, and I respect him," said O'Brien. 
In view of the resulting frlicial hardship, Roemer said he re­cognized that his manaates represent "significant penal­ties" for O'Brien. 
WSND-AM program director Ray Kolusa was presented with a similar option. Kolusa resign­ed because of conflicting inter­ests berween his employment at WNDU and WSND. Roemer fely that Kolusa simply was not at WSND enough because ofhis obligations to WNDU. 

WSND management acknow­ledged that the absence of the tape delay system was the consequence of a "series of mistakes." 
However, Roemer comment­ed, "There was knowledge on the part of Kolusa that the program would be controver­sial. He ordered the tape-delay system but did not follow up on it." 

In order to tighten control of operations at WSND and also discipline Kolusa, Roemer presented the program director with the option of devoting his time to either WNDU or WSND. Because Kolusa is interested in broadcasting as a career, he chose to retam his position at WNDU and thus resigned as WSND's program director. 
Although Roemer acknowled­ged that WSND was not "too 
l~ontinued on page 4] 


Hall rectors disagree on CLC keg proposal 
bv Michael Onufrak faces as the belief that it will 
Senior ·copy Edztor ''facilitate or encourage more drinking." He stated that the concern of the administration 
Of 19 rect0rs surveyed last centers around alcohol abuse on night, SIX Sa:· I they SUI?pOrt the campus. Campus Life Council's keg Sr. Jean Lenz, rector of Farley proposal, while eight rectors hall, said she does not support said they do not support the the keg proposal beacuse .. it proposal. woul open up a whole new 
Five rectors either had no amount of drinking on cam­opinion or refused to commr-nt pus. Sr. Lenz said she on the proposal. Three rectors rt-alized that the "reasons for could not be contacted. havinr: kegs make a lot of 
The proposal,_ if approved by sense,'' but added that her Vice President for Student Af­conem for the extra drinking fairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear, kegs would encourage om­would allow kegs in hall party weighs these reasons. rooms under guidelines which Those in support of the prv­would be drawn up by a given posal have noted the cheap­hall's staff and council. ness, convenience, and relative 
The proposal was passed by safety of kegs as reasons for the CLC approximately rwo passage of the proposal weeks ago. Van Wolvlear has Bro. Peter Mahoney, rector of until Tut'"sday, but his ruling Flanner hall, said his hall staff may comt'" this afternoon. Notre voted some weeks ago to sup­Dame rectors made their opin­port the keg proposal. ions known to Van Volvlear at Several rectors said they the monthly rector's meeting might support the proposal held last Tuesday, Sept. 11. except their hall does not have a 
According to Fr. Gregory party room. Fr. Matthew Green asststant vice-president · Micelli, rector of Cavanaugh for Student Affairs •. Van Wolv­hall, said his hall does not have lear could make his decision a"party"room, "and whenever this afternoon when he meets we do have a party we are with a "keg committee." forced to shoo people out of the 
Green characterized the major
by Beth Prezio] 
:Stumbling block the P~I?osal [continued on page 6] 


Kennedy comments convince O'Neill 
\V ASHINGTON (AP) -House made his latest announcement. ~andidate in the general elect­out very welL'' Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill said O'Neill added that ht'" believes ton. 
White said some of Carter's yesterday n.:cent comments by that Kennedy will have w make But White took a different tack political advisors met MondaySen. Edward M. Kennedy have a decision by December, before after meeting yesterday morn­night to discuss strategy, but convinced him that Kennedy is the presidential primary elect­ing with Carter and Democratic reached no agreement on when 
considering a race for the 1980 ions begin. con~ressional leaders at the he should announce. 
presidential nomination. White's statement that a White House. 
Rosalynn Carter, asked yes­In a related statement, Demo­Kennedy-Carter battle would · "It would be a classic strug­terday about her husband's cratic National Chairman John not necessarily split the party gle," White said, but he added 
c?ances in. the upcoming~~~m~­
C. White said a primary battle marked a similar reversal. The that such a clash "doesn't have 
nes, predtcted he woul• wm berween Kennedy and Presi­Democratic Partv Chairman to" splir rl,e party. all of them." dent Carter would not necessar­had said earlier that a Kennedy He said if Kennedy runs, 
She refused to speculate ab0ut 
ily split the party. He predicted effort to unseat Carter in the "we·Jj fi_ght it on the issues, a Kennedy candidacy, but add­
primaries would virtually as­and unity and support each
Democrats could unite behind ed that Carter ''always runs'' 
the victor. sure victory for the Republican other strongly.... .It could work 
as thm~b he~~ri?_n..~-=
White added that Carter is under some pressure to official­ly declare his candidacy soon. a formality that would allow Car­
Harrington predicts U.S. so~ialism
ter  to  get  commitments  of  
support groups before Kennedy  
can present himself as an option. O'Neill's statement yesterday represented a quick turnabout from his earlier predictions that Kennedy would not seek the Democratic nomination. Over the weekend, O'Neill said he  by Tim Sullivan StaffReporter Introduced as ''America's leading socialist,'' Michael Harrington, Chairman of the Democratic Socialist Organiz­ of their populace. He said that Amenca. following the trend, will become a democrat­ic-socialist state through a long, slow process. "One of the things we should do is adopt as a goal that the  system," he said, "There is no outside.'' The success of this transform­ation depends upon several factors, the most important -of which is full employment. ''The mal-distribution of wealth  
had, "strong feelings" that Kennedy would not run. Kennedy responded Monday night that while O'Neill is "a good friend, .. .I've expressed my thoughts. My views are probably the ones to think about.'' The Massachusetts senator said several times last  ing Committee, said last night that the relationship berween justice and the U.S. economy is complex and confusing. • Before a capacity crowd in the library auditorium, Harrington said, "To get to the problems of justice is to change the sys­tem."  necessities of life shall be collectively paid for," he ex­plained. He cited national health care as an example of this collective effort. In a question and answer period after his speech, Har­rington emphasized that the emergence of America as a  cannot be solved unless there is full employment,'' he stated, ''it is not simply a matter of just redistributive taxes.'' Another important facto.r Har­rington cited was democratic planning, using corporate reso­urces for maximum productiv­itv.  
week that he is  not ruling out  Basing  his  conclusions  upon  socialist  state  will  not  occur  :'Because of today's vast cor­ 
the possibility of running for the nomination. "I would have to say he is  the thoughts of philosophers and economists, Harrington said that most developed na­ because of a violent revolution, but rather will come about "well after out lifetimes" thro­ porate power, the liberalism of the last SO years will no longer wotk," he explained, "we must  
giving it consideration,'' O'Ne­ill told reporters after Kennedy  tions are becoming more con­. cemed with the collective needs- ugh the system.  use of the present ''We are all within the  [c?ntinued.<Jn..page-2j.  
I  




News in brief 
Weather 
A 20 percent chance of rain today with a high Ill the upper 60s to low 70s. Partly cloudy tonight and mostly sujnny tomor­row. Low Fridayh night bow 40s. High tomorrw mid to upper 60s. • 


Camp_u_s-----4 
Friday, September 21, 1979 
2 pm RECIT.AL, concert for 2 harpsichords with guest artists. UTILE TAEATER, SMC. spons: dept. of music. $2.50. 
3:30, 6, 8:30pm FILM, "the given word," social concerns. UBRARY AUD ... 
4:30 pm COllOQUIUM, "singularities in classical groups," prof. hans-peter kraft, u. of bonn, w. germany. 226 CMB. spons: math dept. 
4:30pm SEMINAR, "strucrures & mechan­isms oi (na & k) at pase: epr. & nmr studies, d~. cl-::u·l.-s m. grisham, u. ofva., charlottes­ville. 123 ·~·HEUWLA.ND SCI. HAll., spons: chem. 
5: 15 pm MASS AND SUPPER , BUllA SHED. 
f.. ~Hn. 11 pm MOVIE, a hero ain't nothin' but a sandwich," ENGR. AUD. 
7 pm MEETING, "study in japan," AUDIO VISUAL THEATER, BASEMENT CCE, spons: foreign studi~ program office. 
7. 9:15, 10:30 pm FILM, "mash," CARROll HAll,SMC, $1. 
Saturday, September 22;-1979 
6 am-noon RELIEF SALE, ELKHART COUNTY FAIRGROUND, GOSHEN, IN. meals, quilt auction, general auction, & needlework, spons: a michiana mennonite conference. 
11 am SEMINAR, ''the impact of the church & indusrrialization on the irish-american family," nrnf •'10mas j. curran, st. john's u. 
600 MEMORIA!.. UBRARY 
12:30 pm PURDUE SMOKER, K OF C HAll, free for all mambers. 
1:30pm FOOTBAll nd vs. purdue, WEST LAFAYETfE. . 
8 pm RECITAL, edward parmentier­harpsichord, UTTLE THEATER, SMC, $3. ~0 . 
10 pm MASS, gsu sept. mass, WILSON COMMONS, refreshments. 
Sunday, September 23, 1979 
1 pm MEETING, ham radio club " -w me~ber~ vvc..lcome, SECOND FLOOR L\­FV!{TLJ:.•E BAll. 
1 pm MEETING, nd chess club, LAJ-u.;'­
TIJNE RATHSKELLER. 
1 pm ART SHOW "decade of collecting," ART GALLERY· O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL NC 
3 pm VOJCF RECITAL, carol knell, mezzo·soprt~no. 1.1 Ill£ THEATER, SMC. $2. 
8 pm PERFOJ\?\;:'-.. ARTS SERIES, barvqu(. or-.he:-.tra cuncen-ars mus1ca. O'LAL'liHll~ Al"D. $.~ 'iO. Stude 

L~-------~=---------------------­
... Socialism 
continued from page 1] 
go beyond today's liberalism." 
"C.,rporate power creates in­
toleral:ile limits on justice,11 he 
said. "Corporate boards make 
decisions more profound on the 
equality of individuals than the 
legislation of Indiana.'' 
Harrington attacked conserva­
tive solutions to economic pro­
blems, citing tax cuts as an 
example. "Tax cuts to the rich 
do not work( to stimulate in­
vestment in business and thus 
i,ncrease productivity)because 
rich people will not invest 
unless they know they can make 
money," he-said. "If they have 
no confiden<.:e m thl'! American 
economy, they will buy violins, 
paintin~, a third home, or gold 
mstead.. 
Harrington supported the 
Marxian ideal that each indivi­
dual should v.roduce according 
to their ab1lity and receive 
according to their needs, say-. 
ing, "The ideal of society 
should not be equality. Equal­
ity treats everyone the same. 
The ideal is to allow everyone to 
be who they are.': 
Harrington, author of "The 
Other America," was here on 
invitation from the economics 
department to speak in their 
series of lecturr-s entitled, "Di­
rections in the U.S. Economy." 
Correction 
Due to an erlitorial error, the names of the authors of the two Norma Rae 1ev1ew:. on yester­day's Feature's pages were reversed. Pat Sullivan wrote the article titled "Paying Union Dues ... Norma Rae. II "Social ) usrice and Cinematic Injust­ice" was written by Gene M. Bernstein. 
f-The Observer_ 
Night Editor: jim Rudd Asst. Night Editor: Steve Swonk, Greg Hedges Copy Editor: john McGrath, Bruce Oakley-News Editor: Ellen Gorman Fearures Layout: K. Conne-Uy ­
Sports Layout: Paul Mullan­ey, Mark Perry 'proofreader: Dodee Carney ND Day Editor: Patsy Camp­bell 
SMC Day Editor: Kathy Do­manica Ad Design: Barb Pratt, Chris Slatt 
Early Morning Typists: Car­ne Bnlt, Marilyn Broderick Typists: Carol Shuback Supplement Layotu:Pau/ 
Mullaney Photographer: Beth Prezio Guest Appearances:Ryan 
Ver Berkmoes, john Smith NewsEditor: Mike Lewis 

• The Observer [USPS 598 920! Is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. Tne Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Subscriptions may be purchased lor $20 per year J$10 per semester! from The Observer. P.O. box 
0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame. In· diana 46556. Tne Observer is a member of the 
Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
Friday, September 21, 1979 -page 2 
Wow ... I could have had a V-81



Huddle 
[Photo by Beth Prezio]. 
al 
Sunday Masses 
at CCI~ Sacred Heart Church 
nunta~ry 
Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:15a.m. Sunday 
5:15p.m. Saturday 
Rev. Thomas King, C.S.C. 
Rev. John Gerber, C.S.C.
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. ] ohn Gerber, ~.S.C. '"~-, A
7:15p.m. Vespers 
TAl 

• 
1 pt. Bar-B-O Beans 

• 
1 Pt. Cole Slaw 

• 
6 Rolls with honev 

• 
6 Pudding Desserts 


Offer good Fri., sat., sun. open 9 a.m. sat. of ND Home cl1mes 



~oPe~es~ 
FAMOUS FRIED CHICKEI't 
1636 N. Ironwood 
Western Avenue In the Phoenix Pl:~7::!c,..-{mem 



The Observer Friday, September 21, 1979-page 3 

su 



PURDUE-PER 
Fans of Purdue University bid a cordial welcome to the FIGHTING IRISH and their fans. 
Gold price nears $400 an ounce 
Pool. is a nice breakaway from the tensions of academic ltfe. 
LONDON (AP) -Lack of confidence in U. S. economic policies sent the dollar plum­meting on world money mar­kets yesterday. Analysts warn­ed that further losses might be on the way. 
Gold prices jumped to records in Europe, within sight of the $400-an-ounce level, but slip­ped in New York to $375 an ounce -off $2 from Wednesday -after an early surge to $386 an ounce. 
"Everybody's asking where the bottom IS,'' said one New York dollar trader, who asked not to be identified. "I don't think it's in si~ht, unless there's some action by the Federal Reserve." 
The rush to sell dollars cost the American Currency 2. 7 cents against the strong Swiss fane and abruptly pushed up the hotel bills of American tourists in Europe in some cases by as much as $4 a night. 
In Frankfurt and Nilan, the dollar hit its lowest levels since last Oct. 30, a day before President Carter announced an emergency $30-billion support package. 
Currency dealers said the only European national bank trying 
Demand causes ticket sp.ortage 
by Michael Mader 

Srudent representation at the away football game this week­end will again be sparse, due to heavy demand by alumni. 
'According ·to ticket manager Mike Husick, Purdue Univer­sity made 5,000 tickets avail­able to Notre Dame, the same amount Notre Dame allots the Boilermakers. 
All the tickets were distributed to alumni by a lottery held in June. Sixty-five percent of the alumni had their requests rurn­ed down. There have been no cancellations. 
The Purdue game is tradition­ally the only game that has such a demand for seats, because of the large number of alumni living close to Purdue. The Michigan game this year was an exception because Notre Dame has not played at Michi­gan stadium in forty years. 
Tom Shupe, sports director for Purdue University, suggested that in the future those wanting tickets go to the ticket office at Purdue as soon as tickets go on sale there. This past summer, single game tickets for the Notre Dame game went on sale June 1 and were sold out by June 6. Seats allotted visiting teams by Purdue are in the areas between end-zones and the 25-yard lines. 
In other news, Busick said none of the 36 season tickets stolen from South Bend resi­dents have turned up yet. The South Bend police and the U. S. Postal Service have been work­ing on the search but there are no leads yet, according to Busick. Busick mentioned, however, that a few people. have called to make sure the 
tickets they wished to pruchase . were not the stolen ones, as his office has suggested. 
He said the recovery of the tickets probably will not occur until the home games begin and individuals attempt to gain entrance with the stolen tickets. 
After being guestioned, these individuals w11l be allowed to take other seats, provided the game is not sold out. If it is sold out, the individuals ·will be allowed to take other seats, provided the game is not sld out. If it is sold out, the individuals will be asked to leave. Those residents who had their tickets stolen will be able to take the seats originally assigned to them. 
to prop up the dollar yesterday was West Germany's Bundes­bank, and there the help was half-hearted and brief. 
One Frankfurt dealer siad state bank support would do little to rstore confidence. "It makes the dollar look like a sick (Ilan, held up on its feet only by 
<i',o ' tt
lhJectlons. 

A~lysts said they believe Washington is indifferent to the dollar's instability and will not take steps to stem the decline. The dollar's. troubles intensified when it became apparent that new increases in U. S. interest rates to rcord levels would not be enough to make dollar purchases attractive to buyers. 
Some analysts said, only a huge support program 'by the Federal Reserve to buy~ollars would prevent a further sll_de in the value of the currency. ' 
In Washington, Anthony Solo­mon, undersecretary of the Treasury for monetary affairs, said the government expected "the dollar will remain basic­acHy stable" despite recent market conditions. The dollar's weakness against the WestGer­man mark, he said, "Repre­sents in part a reaction to the current U. S. -WestGerman inflation differential.'' 
Gold soared $16 on London bullion markets to close at $386 [continued on page 61 


Doug Stringer 9-10 pm 

Todd Greenburg 
& Friends 10-? 
Sat. ~5ept. 22 .~Con1edy Night·. 
L.::::.-=::;.._~~~9~:}.~:!Jj 
attsentoRs 
last Chance j:oR PICtUR€S 
f=es 21 ano 
monOay the 24th­9:oo am to 6:00 pm 
BR1nq $10 S1tt1nq 1=€€ cash OQ Ch€Ck 
·--· 
thank YOU 1 b€lma Stu01os 

We are looking forward to the challenge and excitement of tomorrow's contest . 
. Sponsored by the Purdue Sportmanship committee 
The Observer· 
INDIANAPOUS (AP) -Strik­in-g Indianapolis teachers voted overwhelmingly Thursday to return to work while contract talks continued under direction

Striking 
of a court-appointed mediator. 
Leaders of the Indianapolis Education Association told Marion Circuit Judge Frank P. Huse Jr. that the teachers voted 
teachers 
9-1 in favor of reporting to · classrooms Friday. The teahcers have been on strike since .the start of falf classes Sept. 4. The school

vote 
administration said about 1,100 of the 3,400 teachers were off the job Thursday, and about n,ooo of the system's 70,000 pupils were absent.

to return 
The decision to end the strike came after the school broard filed documents challenging Huse's efforts to mediate the bitter contract dispute, includ-
THIS 
COULD BE YOUR LUCKY DAY 

An Arr Force ROTC scholarship can m~an a lot w~ you n~d help with college finances It pays tuition, books and lab fees ... and gives you $100 a month for othff college costs. This could be just what you need to penni! you to fine-tune your concentration on your studies. It could mean the difference between not makrng It at all, and going out on your own wtth a good, solid college degree. 
The Air Force Is a great way to be on your own. As a commrssioned offiCer, you11 haw responsibOrty with your v~ry first job. You11 fond an atmosphere of dedication, trust, and reliance, and you11 jump right In­to manag;ng people and expensive resources. You11 have an excellent starting salary -good fmancial security. 
It can all start with a decision to check out AFRQTC. Find out how you can get a scholarship. See what we offer, then show us what you 
cAFRQTrusDET ou2'2~ day. too' 
Univ. ofNotre Dame 
Captain Davis (219) _283-6634 
HOTC 
Gateway too great way of life. 

MASS followed by


supper 
every­FRIDAY at the 

I JUST FOR ·~HE RECORD I
-----------------~ 
..________________.. 
.  I  ~ 
I ,~1 I '(.l- In the 100 Center offers _10% off on  II  
II  EVERYTHING with ID & coupon  II  

I .....,.j .iECOiDS_.,TAAES,,.RPJ~P~OI!~_ ...... 

ing his orders that negotiators be sequestered in a jury room under police guard and that the school system find money for a 7 percent raise for the teachers. 
Elsewhere, striking bus· driv­ers, custodians and cafeteria workers at Michigan City decided to return to work starting at midnight Thursday, en,iing their 24-day walkout. 
The decision there came after LaPorte Superior Court Judge Raymt•nd Fox ruled that the sehoul board must negotiate with whomever the non-teach­ing employees want as their bargainmg agent. The employ­ees strurk Aug. 28, to gain recogniti~n of the Indiana State Teachers ,Association as their union. ' 
Shirley Carter, spokeswoman for the striking teachers, said the vote was an effort to show support· for Huse. The· judge has criticized the school board's handling of negotiations as well as its administration of schools and has refused to jail teachers who defied two back-to-work orders within the last week. 
Huse also revoked the $25-a­day fines against teachers and the lEA. He had suspended payment of the fines W ednes­day. 
The back-to-work vote was contingent upon the negotiators remainin~ sequestered until a contract ts hammered out, and Huse rejected the school sys­tem's motion to lift that restric­tion. Superintendent Karl Kalp and lEA president Kathy Drn­son have been sequestered with the negotiators. 
After Huse decided to stand form on his order that neg­otiators remain sequestered, the school board filed a change of venue motion. 
A hearing was scheduled for Saturday on all of the school board's motions. 
Huse, who has cleared his pocket this week to be available 24 hours a day on the teacher strike, was told that negotiators were making progress but re­~ained far apart on most tssues. 
"It appears to me we've got an awfully far way to go,'' the judge said. 
He indicated that the teachers' union has been willing to negotiate but that rhe school administration "wants to throw in wrong figures and things like that, then go to sleep and not answer' any questions. 11 
The judge praised the teach­ers' deciston to return to school and warned school officials against harassing those who have been on strike. 
"From the phone calls I'm getting, they're (teachers) still getting refrisals,II he said. ''There wil be no more of those after today. II 
Lasst week, Huse said the state legislature provided enough money for a 7 percent raise, and he ordered the school board to deliver it to the teachers. The board, wbich has offered a 2 percent general raise and a 3 percent ex­perience increment increase, said the judge had no authority ~o order any specific salary mcrease. 
The board's motions also chal­
lenged Huse's authority to con­
duct fact-finding, issue orders 
covering assignment of teach­
ers, order the school board to 
make concessions in negotia­
tions and order the school board 
to delive~; its financial records to 
court for examination by 
neutral accountants. 

Huse told the school board last 
week to drop its proposal in 
contract talks concerning the 
length of the teaching day. He 
issued a verbal order Tuesday 
telling the school system not to 
reasstgn teachers as needed to 
keep schools open. 

I 
... ·--'~.l/6 941~..~r.·.o~·---~IM~' -~,.·.-,.,...;..4~­
Friday, September 21, 1979 -page 4 
"Sweet Pete" Davidson plays photographer at WSND-AM. up to the microphone and the [Photo by Beth Prezto]. 
• • • Resignations 
ees.
[continued from page 1] 

· WSND released a statement enthusiastic" about his sugges­yesterday that stressed the tion to create an administrative need for review of the current board, he stood by his decision .. management organizational 
The proposed board will pro­structure and clear definition of hibit any speakers not affiltated the areas of managerial respon­with the university either as sibility. Standard FFC operat­students or v:siting faculty from ing procedures will also., .be 
apt'earing as guests on the implemented. radio programs. Management "We have not had any stand­will also be reqyired to cons~lt ard operating procedures for 2 5 with the board tn order to avotd years. This ts definitely need­similar incidents in the future. ed,'' said O'Brien. 
In explaining his action, Roe­In its statement, WSND also 
mer made the analogy of Fr. reiterated that its objective has 
Hesburgh's accouncabtltt]' to always been ~o provide high 
the University Board of Trust-quality programmmg. 

Who said Indians were the 
.....:....."""... . ,~,.. Qr#JI,..WJ.e~..J.Q painl. Jofi~~M) "··....::-· 



The Observer 
Gary Trustees.indict wolllan in vodoo case 
GARY, Ind. (AP)-An employ­spread on her car,. parts of the ee of the Calumet Township chicken were scattered around trustee's office has been sus­her yard, a doll with a needle pended indefinitely ~or alleged­through its knee was left in the ly using witchcraft m an effon yard and the woman was visited to lure aclientinto a food stamp at all hours by the trustee fraud scheme, the township employee reciting incantations, trustee said. Allen said. 
Trustee Dozier T. Allen Jr., :Allen said the antics ''literally said the employee, a woman blew the lady's mind." The whom he refused to identify, client subsequently reponed may have "rwo or three disci­the incident to her father, her ples" working at the office. attorney and the trustee's of­
He issued a memorandum fice Allen said. Wednesdav strictly prohibiting The incident has unnerved. the use of ''voodoo, witchcraft, other employees at the trust­spiritualism, .spells or other ee's office, Allen said, and the mind-controlling techniques" situation wasn't helped when while performing township mysterious fumes caused sev­trustee duties.· eral workers to lose conscious­
Calumet Township ·•' ·tudes. ness and force the evacuation of inner-city Gary, Indiana's 
the office after Allen issued his third-larf, '-..t citv. no-witchcraft memorandum, Allen saiJ prdiminary results about 100 clients were in the 
office at rhe..time.
of an inv_. ll!!:ation show!"d that 
the suspended employee alleg­It was later discovered that the edly wanted the cltent to agree fumes weren't witchcraft at 
to take extra food stamps, all, but were from the exhaust purchase food with them and of a sanitation truck parked in then give the food to the trustee an alley beside the building, the 
office employee. , carbon monoxide fumes had When the client refused to been drawn into the office by an . cooperate , chicken blood was intake vent, Allen explained . 
Education majors to meet Monday 
Friday, September 21, 1979 -page 5 

Btl/ Campbell, ''Rosencrantz'Hamlet (right), and Brad Schmidt, 
j 




Harpsichordists plan performance 
With a major concert on Ars Musica, a baroque ensem­for. further intormation, contacr Friday, Saturday and Sunday, ble from Ann Arbor, Michigan the Department of Music, Saint the second Saint Mary's on Sunday night. The Ars Mary's College, Notre Dame, 
College Harpsichord Weekend Musica performance is also the Indiana, 46556, telephone num­will be presented on September first event in the Saint Mary's ber 219-284-4095. All perform­21, 22 and 23. The 8 p.m. Performing Ans Series for ances will take place in the performances each night will 1979-80. Little Theatre of Moreau Hall 
feature South Bend native Registration for the full Harp­with the exception of the Ars Laurette Goldberg on Friday, sichord Weekend is $20, with a Musica performance which will Edward Parmentier on Satur­$10 fee for students. Admiss­be in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
day night and a performance by ion to single events is $1 for Tickets for the Ars Musica each lecture, $2 for each after­performance may be reserved noon: concert and $3.50 for each by calling the Saint Mary'sevening concen. To register, or ticket office at 284-4176.
SMC funds 
Speakers to address career issues 
by Melissa C. Cipkala 
"How do I combine a career and a fulfilling personal life? How do I decide which career path will best suit my interests and values? What is is really like to be a practicing doctor? public relations person? anist? lawyer?" 
A total of 45 speakers will address these issues and others during College to Career Days '79 to be held Sunday through Thurday at Saint Mary's Col­lege. The program is jointly sponsored by Saint Man··~ Student Governemnt, the 
Counseling and Career .f •--vel­opment Center and alumni.. 
Denise Cavanaugh, a 1964 graduate of Saint Mary's, will lead off the w~ek with the keynote address at 8 p.m. on Sunday in Carroll Hall, Mada­leva. The theme of her address will be the advantages of a liberal arts education tn today's working world. Cavanaugh is presently a panner in the consulting firm of Cook-Cavan­
augh Associates in Washing­ton, D. C. Most of the 45 women speak­ers are Saint Mary's graduates. 
Together they represent over 40 career fields ranging fr6m the creative -roets and artists, to the practica -physicians and attorneys. Some more unusual occupations, nurse-midwife and expressive therapist, will also be represented. 
The1r lf'cturr" will he present­ed in informal one hour small group seminars. Each speaker will describe the preparation she needed for her career, what she does in a day's work, what a woman's status is in her field, and how her education relates to her occupation. They will also discuss how they balance the personal aspects of their lives, such as family, marriage 
and  leisure  time,  with  their  
professions.  
The discussion  will  be  held  

Monday through Thursday from 11 a. m. to 8 p. m. Sessions Monday through Wed­nesday will be held in Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hll; Thurs­day's sessions will be held in the Regina North Lounge. 
College to Career Days '79 is a joint effon. Student govern­ment formulated the idea for the presentation last year. Chip Dornbach, vice president for Academic Affairs, i!> currently in charge of studem govrrn­ment's involvement Alumni, organized by Carol ()'Malley, are providing hospitality( and accommodations tor spea!Cers. Tony Campbell of the Counsel­ing and Career Development Center has coordinate!i that agency's participation. 
The decision to hav'e all women speakers was deliber­ate. The sponsors, felt that these speakers could best des­cribe what is happening for women in today's working world and could relate to the women of the Saint Mary's and 
Notre Dame communities. 
College to. Career Days '79 will provide the opportunity for the women of both schools to learn more about the personal and professtional lives of women in many differnet occupations. 
NOBlE ROMANS is now taki~g applications for counter help,pie persons, 
waiters and waitresses. Work schedules can be arranged ar~und class schedules. Apply in person. Phone 277-5300 
Corner of Grape and Cleveland rds. • across from University Park Mall .,•
,r 

a W I I W 

Any COLLEGE OF SCIENCE STUDENT INTERESTED IN REPRESENTING 
THE College of Science on the AcQdemlc Council should submit NQme Qnd btlef StQtement of Purpose before Sept.26th to: 
Stud•nt council c/o Th• Offlc• of D•an of Science Rm 229 Nleuwland Science 
Ellen Buddy St. Mary 's editor 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame freshmen, sophomores and jun­iors studying in the Depanment ofEducationwill meet at 7 p. m. Monday in the student lounge of Madeleva Hall. 
Sister Maria C. McDermott, chairman, and other faculty members of the Department of Education, will explain the aotions available to elementary majors and secondary certifica­uun students. All students graduating after 1980 will be :;,ubject to a new Indiana law that dictates curriculum changes. Students are en­couraged to consider en­dorsements, minors and double majors which can make a license more marketable in the employment arena. 
In an interview, Sister Maria commented on the high place­ment percentage of teachers 
wpo. graduated in past years. "Published statistics," Mc­Dermott added "show the national employment rate for the class of '78 as 49 percent. Saint Mary's and Notre Dame graduates in the same year had a 78 percent rate of employ­ment. In the class of '79, every ~raduate who wished to teach IS in the profession with a small percentage continuing in grad­uate school. We have a situation now where recruiters for school districts come to the rwo campuses for prospective teachers." 
available 

Applications are now available 
• for requesting funds from Saint Mary's Student Goverment. All groups requesting funds for their respective club or organ­ization may pick them up in the student activities office. The completed forms are to be returned by 5 p. m. Sept. 26 to the Student Activities office. For more information I Call Sheilia Wixted, 4632. 

HELP WANTED 
.. -;. 



The Observer 
"A COCKEYED M.\STERPIECE I" 
,................................ 

7, 9:15, 11:30 pm 
(QIIC,II Hnll SffiC 
Qdmission Jl 
sponsored by 
Student Actfvftfes Publicity Board 
Friday, September 21, 1979-page 6 
• • • Gold 
(continued from page 3] 
an ounce. In Zurich the closing price was $381150. The metal closed Wednesday at $370 in both trading markets and was up $8 shortly after morning trading began. 
Wealthy · Arabs have been reP.orted buying hundreds of mtllions of dollars in gold and silver in recent weeks, seeking a strong investment for their files of oil dollars. 
Prayer House first session to host 
A Contemporary Contempla­tive Prayer series will begin Tuesday at Mary's Solitude ­House of Prayer on the far west end of the Saint Mary's cam­Hy next week everything wiU pus. The \berne of the ftrst be in good order around came 
session is "Shared Cont:.:mpla­pus when we host the Michigan 
Consisting of: 2 USC GA Tixs 2 Kansas Tixs. 1 Mum 2 Homecoming Dance Tixs 
(One per person) 

Will Go on Sale Monday September 24, 1979 at 7:45 pm 
location to be announced WSND 640 AM atT:30 pm on Monday 
tion of Scripture." Each ses­State game. sion in the series will begin at 



PACKETS 
• • Keg 
(continued from page 1] 

study room -which ,i~n't set up for a party anyway. . 
Micelli added that the last time a keg was legally tafl?ed in Cavanaugh hall the hal mcur­red $67.00 worth of tloor dam­age. 
"You c.,,uld say under the present circumstances I am opposed to the idea,'' MiceIIi added. 
Fe. James Riehle, reuor of Pangborn hall said he does not support the keg propo~al be­cau-.e ''guys drink too much when there is a keg around'' 
Bro. Charles Burke said he 
supports the CLC' s proposal 
''with some limitations.'' 

"Kegs must be stricrly limited and there must be a stricrly controlled ratio between the number of kegs allowed at a party and the number of people allowed at a party," he added. 
The CLC will meet Monday night at 6:30p.m. in the Grace basement. 
4ftershocks _follow 
ROME (AP) -Hundreds of aftershocks rumbled up and down central Italy yesterday, echoes of a sharp q_uake that killed five persons and left more than 2, 500 homeless as it shook the penisula from Pisa's Lean­ing Tower to Naples' broad bay. 
The Wdenesday night earth­quake leveled stone houses and medieval churches in the Un­brian hills nonh of Rome, rattled palaces and basilicas in the caJ?Ital, and sent thousands of terrified Italians pouring into the streets. Panicky circus elephants smashed their way out of their pens in Perugia, near the center of the tremor. 
In Rome, experts said the Colosseum and two other mo­numents of imperial times, the arch of Constantine and the Column of Marcus Aurelius, may have suffered slight dam­
age from the quake. Specialists were trying to determine whether marble fragments found near the structurees had been loosened by the shocks. 
All five deaths occurred in villages around Norcia, 70 miles north of Rome. A collapsing house killed three members of one family in San Maceo and 
two  persons  were  crushed  to  
death  by  falling  debris  in  
Chiavano.  .  1 

Rescue officials said they beli­

eved the death toll would ~o no higher, bur workers connnued to dig through rubble yester­day. 
Tents for the homeless were being shipped into the hard-hit areas, but roads blocked by the rockfalls and debris were delay­ing some of the relief work. 
No new casualities or major chmages were reported from the 300 aftershocks. The major jolt, striking J·ust before midnight wednes ay, measured ).8 on the open­ended Richter scale fit its epicemer.The Richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded_ on seismograp~s.., 3: quake· wtth a readmg of 5 can cause considerable damage in populated areas, and a quake with a 6 ·reading can cause severe damage. 
Art and restoration experts, after preliminary checks, re­ported no sibnificam damage to such monuments as the Lean­ing Tower, the colosseum, the Roman'Forun, St. Peter's bas­ilica snd other ancient buildings 

, in Rome and the Vatican. 
But near Spoleto a richly frescoed 16th century church associated with a Madonna miracle collapsed. The Octa­gonal building, the Church of Our Lady of the Snow, stood at 3000feet and was decorated with frescoed by the noted Angelucci brothers. It was .ded icated to the miraculous surv ivai of ba local resident said to have been buried for three days under a avalanche. 
The walls of the Basilica of St. Benedict cracked open in near­by Norcia, a medieval town that was virtually leveled. 
The quake struck while most Italians were asleep or watch­ing soccer on television. As buildings shook from Pisa in the north to Naples in the south, a distance of 450 miles, thou­sands grabbed their children and belongings and poured into the streets. ·Many spent the night outdoors. 
The quake was Italy's strong­est since a tremor killed about 1,000 persons in the hilltop towns ofFriuli in northeast Italy three years ago. 

:.Jifii.'IUI'rff't#,.. ,,.,,•....,...:v~H!t.,..,.~·'11IAJII ...............,-..., .... -.lllt\l··•_.. -.-~w-. .: ..,• ..,.........~u~v...La·~ "'""~ ... -".,.~~ ....... • .·"'·'-.fl. I
.. 


The Observer CDncerning Canal 
House refuses to approve bill 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House of Representatives re­fused yesterday to approve a bill designed to carry out the Panama Canal treaties, an ac­tion which the Carter adminis­
tration warned could close down canal operations by Oct. I if not recons1dered by the law­
makers. 
The measure to carry out the final details of the Panama Ca­nal treaties, which are sched­uled to take effect in less than rwo weeks, was defeated in the house on a vote of 203 to 192. The legislation had been ap­proved earlier in the day by the Senate on a 60 to 35 vote. 
After the house vote, the 
White House issued a state­
ment which said President Car­
ter "deeply regrets" that the 
House defeated the implement­
ing legislation and the adminis­
tration would make "every ef­
fort"' to get the vote reversed. 
"It is inconceivable Congress 
will allow the Panama Canal to 
be closed 'even for a short 
time," the statement said. 
Managers of the bill said they 
will try to work out a new one in 
hopes the House as well as the 
Senate will aoorove it, pos­
sibly next Thursday. 
The treaties turning the canal 
over to Panama Dec. 31, 1999-, 
rake effect Oct. l. The bill is 
needed primarily to create the 
U.S. controlled commission that is to run the canal until Pan­ama gets it. 
State Department officials 
have speculated privately that 
although the United States' le­
gal rights to the canal end Oct. 
1, operations would probably 
continue in legal limbo if Con­
gress has not approved the new 
operating comm1ssion by then. 
Rep. john M. Murphy, D-N.Y. 
said that if the bill is not 
passed, resident Carter will 
issue an executive order that 
will do what the bill is designed 
to do. However,funding to car­
ry out the terms of the treaties 
would still be in the hands of 
Congress. 
Before the House vote, Mur­
phy and other supporters of the 
bill argued that rejection of the 
measure would kill it. 
But after the vote, Murphy said the bill would be sent back to the House-Senate conference 
Carter announces continued talks with Soviets over Cuban issue 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Carter told congressional leaders Thursday that U. S. ­Soviet discussions on Soviet troops in Cuba are just now 
approaching the bargaining stage. 
Holding an unannounced meeting with prominent sena· tors and House members of both parties, Carter disclosed that previous discussions with Soviet officials focused on a search for information ·rather than on efforrs to resolve the controversy. 
An account of the president's early morning conference was 
provided by  an  administration  
official  who  aslced  not  to  be  
named.  

This source said new dis~us­sions with the Russians will aim at substantive results that would "alter the situation" in Cuba. 
Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance was meeting Thursday for the fifth time with Soviet ambassador Anatoly Dobrinin. They were . reported to be arranging direct talks in New York next week between Vance and Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko. 
The presence of the Soviet brigade of 2,000 to 3,000 men has endangered Senate ratifica­tion of the SALT II strategic arms treaty with the Russians. 
Prior to Carter's session with congressional leaders, many had assumed that earlier' Vance-Dobrynin talks had been substantive. 
The administration source told repcirters1 however, that devel­opments here to date had involved assessing American intelligence data and asking the Soviets ''a series of very speci­fic questions" which were re­layed to Moscow by Dobrynin and considered "at a very high level" there. 
Senate Republican Leader Howard Baker of Tennessee, who is seeking the GOP presi­dencial nomination, emerged from the White House session to voice impatience at the pace of U. S. -Soviet discussions. Terming the presence of Soviet troops in Cuba a "provoca­tion, "baker declared, "I think the matter ought to have been dealt with by now.'' 
Declining to say what actions should have been taken, the GOP leader said: "What I would do as president is some­thing I will tell you another time." 
Sen. Frank Church, D-Idaho, 
Chairman of the Senate For­
eign Relations Committee, pre­
dicted that eventually ''the 
Senate will require certification 
by the president that Soviet ·combat forces are not in Cuba.'' Church told reporters the U. S. and the Soviet governments "apparently have reached that pom in negotiations" on the tssue where major decisions are requited. 
Friday, September 21, 1979 -page 7
r.----------------1
1 Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor 1 
I Georgetown Shopping Center I I (near Cira's) I 
I I 
I BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIAL I 
I 

I $2.00 OFF 
I 

any large pizza 
1

I (Not valid for deliveries) 
I 

1 $1.00 OFF 
I any small pizza 
~Wide Screen TV-Luncheon Specials Daily~ ·--..coupon Expires 9/30/791____ 
ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTUR~ STUDENTS 
interested in ·serving on the 
ACADEMIC COUNCIL or the 
ENGINEERING COLLEGE COUNCIL must apply prior to 5 pm Friday Sept 28 Application forms available at the office of the Dean of Engineering 
Room 257 Fitzpatrick Hall 

S:Iiurdav. .Y:pt 22 
OPEN 12NOON 

N.D. vs P.U. 
T.V. DAY 
(12 noon tilt Final guq) .. _......... ,.... 
16 oz BUSCH 75¢ Bloody Mary's 50¢ 
1 Corby's hat.will be givenaway whenever Notre Dame scores 
,.______....___,________.._.....111 
RIVER CITY RECORDS 
northern i"dio.na 's largest record and tape.._~electlon 
and concert ticket headquarters 
I 

Sl.OO OFF!! 
any ~lb.,.. or to.p" (now thm Ocr 7 limit 1 co~pon per person). 

18,000 a.lbums a.nd ta.pes In stock 
MD;smC student ch•cks a.ccepted for up to S20.00 ovttt purcha.s• a.mount .o,.n 10 to 10, 7 da.ys Q w••k 
. River City Records 50970 U.S. 31 North 3 mil•• north of campua
1 

~------~,-,._.2n._~._42•·~··~·~·····----~·-~ 
I 
I 
ND-o 
I 
1~ I 
1 
cle-veland Rd. ...., 
1 
-o .~ 
~1 I 
~-~ 1 tB ~ 1 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

committee that approved the legislation in hopes another version acceptable to theHouse could be worked out. 
Before approving the House. tion, the Senate defeated on a 50-45 vote a Republican effort to attach restrictions to the treaties. The proposal, by Sen. Bob Dole, R-Kan., would have halted transfer of canal proper­ty and cut off payment of Pan­ama's share of canal revenues if the president determined that Soviet of Cuban troops were in the country. 
Dole's proposal was opposed 
This student has second thoughts about coming to ND 
by Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., floor manager of the bill, who said any such change would de­lay Congress' final approval of the measure. , 
Opposition to the treaties has been stiffest in the House, which attached a variety of\ amendments to its version of, the legislation. Nearly all of the · House provisions were deleted · from the final measure ap­proved by the Senate. 
The Carter administration had complained that the house re­strictions would have violated · the spirit of the treaty. 
tnstead ofjoining the circus as he had always hoped. 
Editorials 
Friday, September 21, 1979-page 8 
Speaking of Kegs .... 
P.O. Box Q
Paul J. Riehle 
---I ley .Joe, did you hear about the fir">t CLC meeting? Kegs an· an issue again! 
• ---~ure Pat, I'm a well informed student on this prestigious cam­pus of Nmre Dame. ---So what do you think? ---Well. I think I'll adopt a "wait and !\~"e" attitude. --lluh? We should wait and sec what rlw Administration thinks. If rhey dun't allow them, I don't ,..,.e why we should h:we them.. --I' 111 nor so sure I agree. ---You've got robe joking! Do you want ro destroy this unique orw-way relationship we've got going? --Fxanlv. l'dratherbemature ahour rhc· whnle thing. If you sw1• for a second and think rar rona II~·. rou' II discover that <JIIowi11g kegs on campus is only rl'ascnl;rblc Kegs would be a pr ;H '"aI solution to several problems posed by the new "parry rooms." 
Ke-gs wrll minimize the prob­lem of refuse in the party rooms and greatly facilitate dean-up. The absence of bot rlcs and cans will eliminate the arnunulation of trash in the room: the cups used with k~gs ,rrc easily stacked and disposed nt. Plastic cups also eliminate rlw safety hazards of broken bottles. Also, kegs would be murh more ec.,nomical than bot rles or cans. Finally, beer just tastes better out of a keg. 
The CLC proposal doesn't say that kegs should he allowed in stulh· lounges, bathrooms, or even students rooms. What it 1.lnes say is that they should be permitted in the parry rooms according to guidelines drawn up by the Rector, Hall Staff,_ and Hall Council in each dorm and approved by the Dean of Students. ---Ynu know ·Pat, that sounds very well and good, but I've heard some of the arguments against kegs. ---Surh as ... ? 
ing around the figure of 150 kegs on campus during a week­end; that's a lot of beer! How are people going to get all those kegs on campus? Does that mean that anyone who drives up to the guardhouse can get on by telling the security guard he has a keg in the trunk? ---_) oe, that 150 keg figure is ridiculous~'There is no support for such a hi~h number. Dean Roemer said It off the top of his head at the CLC meeting. At the same meeting, Bill Roche suggested that 40 to 50 kegs on campus during a big weekend would be a more accurate figure. There are only 22 dorms on campus; I doubt that every one of the dorms will a~ree to allow kegs; those that wtll have kegs will necessarily limit the number of kegs that will be permitted in a party room according to irs size. ---If you're wondering how the kegs will get on call'iJUS, I'll return the question to you ­How do you get your cases of beer to your dorm? ---You know as well as I do that we drive or carry them on. ---So what's so different about a keg? If students can get 50 cases of beer on campus, then I think that they're ingenious t·nough to move a keg. ---Yeah, that's true. But think of the supervision problem. Once you let kegs 111to parry nx)ms, you open the floodgates to allow them anywhere. ·:·Again, I'll return the ques­tton. How are kegs controlled now? ---By the Hall Staff --Rectors and RA's. ---1 oe, that control is. still there. 
1(the Staff is responsible about their jobs, you won't : :: kegs all over th(' .-J,,rm« ---O.K Makes sen'>e. But say you have a keg 111 your party room, somebody gets drunk there, goes out and gets himself hurt. You're looking at .some pretty heavy liability. ---1 agree, and the responsi­bility for ~erring someone too 
DOOIBSBUBY 
drunk rests on the server and 
partysponsors;Ithinkthatfact 1------------------------------------------------------­
should be more widely circula­ted. However, the liability is the same no matter the size of the container. A person gets just as . drunk drinking from a can or bottle as he does drinking from a keg. ---That's true ... But Pat, the biggest problem on campus is alcohol abuse. You know it, I know it, and that is why the Administration objects to kegs. And I agree. ---And I agree too. Alcohol abuse is a serious problem here at N.D. I've never seen so many people veg out on booze. BUT, kegs allow for greater alcohol control than previously possible. The number of kegs permitted at a party will depend on the size of the room and the number of people auending. You can also keep tabs on the amount of beer simply by counting the kegs. It's much easier than counting quarts and 
then cases to see how much is 
being consumed -that's nearly impossible! 
Furthermore, regulations can be added to the party room guidelines to increase controL Suggestions I have heard are: not allowing the purchase of additional kegs after the party has begun, limiting the number of kegs tapped at one time and prohibiting the tapping of kegs within an hour and a half of the predetermined time of the par­ty's end. With these measures you reduce the often mentioned problem of getting smashed trying to "kill the keg." ---Well, Pat, if that's true, then why have I heard that the Administration still will not allow kegs? Despite what you say I'll stde with them; there is no sense in questioning authori­ty. ---Whoa! Hold on a second my misguided friend! The Admini­stration does what its name suggests--it administers. What it administers changes, for it reglects our evolving attitudes and lifestyles. A.n important voice in directing these changes is the Campus Life Council; it is made up of members ofevery facet ofNotre Dame life--rectors, faculty the 
V.P. of Student Affairs,· the Dean of· Students, and students from all aspects of student government. In 'this keg situa­tion, do realize that the CLC voted 12-3 in favor ofkegs! The CLC surely has the best inter­ests of the University at heart. The keg proposal should be approved for it has decisively passed this very representative body. ---1 hate to break this to you Pat, but I heard rumor to the effect that other people have met behind closed doors and that the proposal will be rejec­ted. ---I've heard the same, and I'm going to regard them as only rumor. Those on high must certainly realize that if the keg proposal is rejected the viability of the CLC is seriously jeopar­dized. I think the Administra­tion will approve this proposal for all the reasons I mentioned and because it's necessary that the CLC maintain credibility. ---Par, I am going to have to agree with you. It only makes sense thar the proposal be approved; however, I'm not sure it will be. ---Why's that? ---Because you're being ma­ture about it. 
Lunch crunch 
annoys students ; 
unnerves workers 
Dear Editor: 
While the Monday­

Wednesday-Friday lunch rush 
at the dining halls has recently 
been likened to "pouring a 
gallon into a pint sieve'', 
perhaps a more relevant anal­
ogy would be that of cramming 
500 trays onto one skinny 
conveyor belt. I make this 
observation from my position as 
a worker on the slop line. 
The lunch crunch disturbs 

everyone: it annoys hungry 
students; it unnerves burned 
employees. We students who 
man the conveyor belt witness 
the confusion with each jum­
bled tray that passes. We see; 
we shudder; we slop. The 
confusion cannot be eliminated 
but it c~ be lessened with you; 
cooperanon. 
Have you considered that 

every extra glass you take 
means one less free finger for 
the worker stacking them? Six 
glasses call for a juggler, not a 
stacker. Overturned and 
unemptied dishes, roo, pose 
quite a problem on the belt. 
Sticky peanut butter bowls are 
hazards to our hands; slippery 
salad liners are frisbees in out 
fingers. 
Working the belt is dirty business, but it need not be unbearable. A. neat and organ­ized tray is the key to our .self-respect--if not our sanity, and you students hold that key. 
If everyone would refill his 

glass instead of taking two, and 
dean his plate, the blows of the 
belt would be considerably 
lessened. Patience and consid­
eration may not shorten food 
lines but they quicken smiles 
and make everything--not just 
the conveyor belt--run more 
smoothly. 
Mary_ Monnal 

____________,______ 
academic principles, but to strengthen our religious princ­iples. 
We are reminded of our religious upbringing when the bells at Sacred Heart chime, or perhaps by a quick glance at Our Lady ato{' the goldem dome. Nothing, however, brings the matter more to mind than standing at attention be­fore God and each other in a pre-class prayer. Thus I must commeno Professor Werge for reminding my classmates and myself of our religious beliefs at such a seemin£:ly inopportune time. 
Colleen Short 

Apologizes 
for handling 
of crew incident 

· 
To Dean Roemer, jay Femero, and the Notre Dame Crew: 
For any embarrassment caused you, the athletic dep­artment and the Notre Dame community by my bad judg­ment in handl111g the aftermath of the attack on the lives of 18 of my oarsmen, I most sincerely apologize. 
To phrase it in language an oarsman will understand: I caught a crab. 
Clete Graham 
'Blue Collar' 

undermines 
Ou-ist 's commands 
Dear Editor: 
I participated 111 thirty-five

minutes of the movie, Blue 
Werge COmmended Collar, before freeing myself
from 'worshipping' what was £ 1 often the opposite of what ItOr pre-c ass prayer worship every Sunday. It was 

Dear Editor: 
On the ftrst day of clas.s each semester I always pay dose attention to the words of my professors. This is the day on which important information about the narure ofthe course is revealed: the amount of read­ing, the number of exams, the type of papers, and whether or not any of the above is optional. 
The opeaing class of English 321 brought words to my ears which I ftnd to be more import­ant than any course description information Professor Werge requested that we all rise for a briefprayer. We begrudgingly shuffled out of our desks, Professor W erge uttered a few words praising God, and we all resumed our places. 
I would guess that the majority of the class was thinking about anything but God a~ the rime, myself included. Sometimes our days are so ftlled with worry about a paper due in one class, or a test in another, or merely getting to a third on time, that we forget that we are at Notre Dame not only to acquire sound obvious that the students iden­tified more with the main character in Blue Collar than with the main character at the mass that I had celebrated with them two days previous. 
How could we {'articipate in a celebration exalung Christ and His Word and two days later in a movie edifying someone who "opposes and exalts himself against every so-called god or object of worship?" 
(II Thess. 2:4) 

How can the same person admire and honor two such opposing objects and value systems without being a hypo­crite and self-deceived? 
In the name of 'Social Concern' I feel Blue Collar undermines or devalues many of Christ's commands: taking the Lord's name in vain and abstaining from sexual immor­ality. The movie subtly con­dones behavior which is more harmful to sociery than the evils it wants to condemn. If the movie tempts us ro accept its truth at the expense of any of Christ's words something is wrong. 
Peter Helland 

The Observer Editorials ... Friday, September 21, 1979 -page 9 
Third World: Central America 
The Struggle ofaPeople Independent, but not free 
Tim Beaty 
William A. Phelan' 

'editor's note: Third World: Struggle of a 
after a peaceful protest on campus grounds in
People is a bi-weekly column submitted by 
May, and a Mass given by the Archbishop of
CADENA, a social concern group on 
Santiago in solidarity with the disappeared led to 
campus. The Third World r:olumn will 
50 arrests in two demonstrations after the Mass. 
appear on the Editorial page every other 
Presently, . relatives of the missing have
Fn"day this year. Today 's column focuses on 
initiated 14 hunger strikes around the country,
the worsening political situation in Chile. 
attempting to bnng about the following actions: 
1) Denouncement of the release of police
"Though footsteps cross this spot a thousand 
accused of murders at Lonquen. 
years 
2) Denouncement of the murders of Chemistry
they will not erase the blood ofthose here fallen. 
Prof. Federico Rena'o Alvarez and regional
And the hour that you fell wz/1 not be dimmed 
leader of the Socialist Party, Daniel Acuna. 
though the voices ofthousands 
· 3) Investigaton by tht: Chilean justice system 
call across this silence. " 
of the cases of the disappeared. 
4) Return of bodies found at Lonquen to their
by Pablo Neruda 
families.
inscn'bed in a plaque at the Lonqu_en 
Included among the hunger strikers are 154
mass gravestte. 
religious at the parish, Nuestra Senora de Andacolla in Santiago. 
Soon after the September 1973 overthrow of the 
Local Response 

Allende government in Chile, Sergio Maureira Interested persons can send cables supportingand his four sons were arrested and sent to the the demands of'the hunger strikers to:main detention center in Santiago's National Nuestra Senora de AndacollaStadium. No information about the fate of the Mapocho 2325five agricultural workers, members of a peasant Santiago, Chile
union, was given until last November when their bodies were positively identified among 15 
Santa Rosa de Lima bodies discov~·red at a mass gravesite. Pemions Avenida Ecuador 472by relatives ,of over 600 Chileans who Santiago, Chile disappeared after the coup are pending before Embajada de DinamarcaChilean courts who have recently been censured Avenida Santa Maria 0182from making public statements about the Santiago, Chileinvestigation. 
People's Response 

Santa J emitaDespite continued harrassment by the National Avenida Suecia 315'Government, popular protest concerning the Santiago, Chile
deaths has arisen in Chile. One thousand people gathered for a liturgy and march at the gravesite 
(Local Western Unidn numbers-287-1046 and(Lonquen), 100 students of 'theology were 255-3967)suspended from the Catholic Universtty of Chile 
Carter wavers on rights issue 
R. Mark Carney 
govt:H......:~.• c. That same year, than 1500 Chileans "missing"''The _heart ofour idenh·ty as a the United States provided the after a prolonged period of natton ts a firm commitment to Philippines with 133 million mass incarceration and murder. 
human rights.'' dollars in aid. Yet after private conversations 
jimmy Carter, 1977 With the Ferdinand Marcos with Chilean officials, President 
dictatorship came arrest with­Carter assured U. S. citizens 
out charge, imprisonment, tor· that Chile's "progress will in­
ture, and restriction of free crease in human freedom in the 
The Social Concerns Film Ser­speech and assembly. Yet the future.'' ies ends tonight. Politics of United States continues to send United States' support of the 
Torture, an ABC News Closeup the Marcos regime money. 
Shah of Iran reveals another which was shown in Washing­Why? Simply because the inconsistency in the Carter 
ton Hall on Sunday warrants United States follows a policy administration's human rights
discussion because its message which supplies aid to countries policy, according to Politics of 
should reach many more than ifsuch aid ''serves to protect U. Torture. On September 8, 
or who

the 300 so had the S. national interests." The 1978, Iranian soldiers ftred on 
opporruniry to see it. Filmed in Caner Administration views unarmed demonstrators in1978, Politics ofTorture centers the Philippines as militarily Tehran, killing 400 and injuring on the internal activ!ties of 3 
strategic and economically hundreds of others. Yet Iran 
American allies: the Philip­important because of U. S. acts as a buffer zon~ between pine&, Chile, and Iran. It is a business and trade interests. the Soviet Union and the oil­documentary of murder, tor­The Administration considers producing Arab nations and is a
ture and repression. Politics of them so important that it lob­valuable tradin"' partner.
Torture questions the Carter bied strenuously and defeated a Therefore, th(. ~Shah retained 
administration's inaction in re­1977 proposal in Cons.ress to U.S. support until his exile ~ponse to blatant examples of cut U. S. aid to the Phtlippines Politics of '1 'orture challenges
tnhumane practices by the gov­in half in response to the noted these inconsistencies in' U. S. 
ernments of these nations. The atrocities. policy and questions to what 
documentary cites incoqsisten­Politics of Torture notes that extent our commitment to hu­
cies in American foreign policy the situation in Chile is similar, man rights should be moder­
in light of the administration's 
even though this country repre­ated by pragmatic concerns of expressed commitment to hu­sents no direct strategic value military and economic strategy. 
man rights. 
and relatively little U. S. econ­Can the inconsistencies be ABC News corresJ.>ondents 
omic investment. Human eliminated or are they simplystate that the Philippmes has rights violations were so wide­the sad, irrevocable reality of a 
one of the worst records of spread in 1974 that Congress super power involved in inter­
human rights violations in the cut off military aid and decreas­national politics? Politics of 
world. Yet over the past six ed economic aid to Chile. Torture notes that the Cartr-r years, American economic and United States bankers have administration has done much 
military aid to the Philippines responded to the Chilean gov­to increase international aware­has reached a staggering 750 ernment's requests by loaning ness of human rights. Yet the million dollars. In 1978, aU. S. Chile 800 million dollars in spite type and degree of action, '1nt 
State Department report reveal­of ,he U. S. government sanc­rhetoric. reveal the actual 
ed that torture is in fact rions. Amnesty International priority the· United States 
practiced by the Philippine . eports that there are still more assigns to human rights. 
One hundred and ftfty eight years ago this past Saturday the five Central American rel'ublics declared their independence from Spain. September 15, 1821, marked the end of a struggle for political liberation which had begun in earnest ten years earlier and which was finally achieved when don Gab­ino Gainza peacefully relin­quished command of the Cap­taincy General of Guatemala; they are now occupied by the sovereign republics elf Guate­mala, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Honduras and Costa Rica. 
Yet in 1979 the struggle for liberation of a different kind, the liberation of humanity from oppression, continues in Cen­tral America, for independence has not meant freedom for the majority of the inhabitants of the five nations. In view of the Central American Dia de Inde­pendencia it thus seems appro­priate to examine the current political abd social situation in that region of the world. . 
Of the five Central American countries (Panama came into being at a later date) only Costa Rica has had a laudable record in granting and respecting its citizens' human rights. In February of last year, Rodrigo Carazo of the Unity Coalition Party was elected as the coun­try's thirty -sixth president and promises to keep intact the nation's eighty-year-old tradi­tion of democracy. In the remaining four countries the situation ts quite different. 
Generals Romeo Lucas Garcia of Guatemala, Policarpio Pax Garcia of Honduras and Carlos Humberto Romero of El Sal­vador are the presidents of their respective countries. In each case the "president" runs a military dictatorship whose trademarks are repression, per­secution and execution. 
Guerrilla activity is endemic to the three countnes. Generally leftist in their political orienta­tions, such groups as the Gua­temalan Army of the Poor and the United Popular Action Front of El Salvador have one goal in common -to imitate the success of the Sandinista Na­tional Liberation Front in Nic­aragua in overthrowing the corrupt and unjust military regimes of thetr respective countries. Ostensibly acting in the name of "the people", these groups are not as well organized or equipped as the Sandinistas; nor do they as yet have as broad a spectrum of popular support within their mdividual countries as do the Sandinistas in Nicaragua. Nevertheless they represent a spark which, as it grows, will inevitably engulf a large seg­ment of the population and perhaps lead to dramatic changes in the political and social systems of these count­ries. The recent toppling of the infamous Somoza dynasty in Nicaragua has buoyed the hopes of these and other dis­
sident groups in Central Amer­ica. El Salvador is a coase in point. 
In recent years El Salvador has become a smoldering hotbed of political agitation which, with the right catalyst (such as the Chamorro incident in Ni?. aragua) could erul't into inci­pient social revolutton. Called Cuzcadan ("land ofjewels") by its original Indian. inhabitants, El Salvador occupies only four percent of the total land area of Central America (including Panama) but contains within its borders twenty-two percent of the total population of the six countries. ' 
For forty mne years the Sal­vadorenos have lived under military rule. The military has attempted to legitimize this rule by operating through political parties (first the Partido Revo­lucionarto de Unificacion Demo­cratica and then the Partido de Concili:.cion Nacional), by hold­ing p~..opular elections (in which fraud has been rampant) and by appearing to act m the best interest of the nation through the use of economic and soctal reforms. The deteriorating socio-economic conditions of the populace and the popular growing resentment agamst the tnjustice and blatant abuse of human rights, characteristic of the military government, have forced the political leaders of 
the country to become more repressive in dealing with the people in-recent months. 
The demise of the neighboring Somoza regime has prompted the Popular Revolutionary Bloc, a group of left-wing political organizations, to covertly ally itself with the three most active guerrilla groups in El Salvador ­the Popular Liberation Forces, the Popular Revolutionary Army and the Armed Forces of National Resistance -against the Romero regime. To what extent this alliance embaces the hopes and aspirations of the Salvadorean people is not yet clear. Nor)~ i,t, de~ tp w~at degree these groui3!>' will govern in the name of' 'ef/ueblo" (the people) when an if they do achteve their objectives. His­tory is replete with popular movements which, once in power, become as repressive or more so than their predeces­sors. Only time will tell if the Sandinista government of Nic­aragua will fall into this pat­tern. 
One thing is certain; however ­the Sandinista victory in Nic­aragua is only the beginning of a movement in which the Central American people are striving for liberation 
One hundred and ftfty eight years ago revolutionary leaders such as Father Jose Matias Delgado and Jose Manuel Arce of El Salvador led the struggle against oppression so that their cornparriots might attain the freedom to live as they chose and to exercise their inalienable rights.. As another September 15 passes'; Central Americans are still struggling to attain those ideals. That struggle will continue until independence is truly synonymous with free­dom . 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and
-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief. ........Rosemary Mills Sports Editor .................. Mark Perry 
represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor ..........Diane Wilson .Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editoiial Editor..............Ann Gales Photo Editor ..............Doug Christian 
opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor . .......M. Onufrak The Obseroer is an independent their authors. Cqlumn space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager........Steve Odland newspaper published by the srudents able to all members of the community, News Editor .................... Mark Rust Production Manager .......Tim Sullivan 
AJ .. M
of the Univer!'ity of Notte Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor .................Mike Shields , uvertzsmg anager.........Bob Rudyand Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor ... .. Ellen BuddY. Controller..................Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. ~-~ SMC News Editor........ Margie Brasstl Circulation Manager ......Greg Hedges 
Tht' Ob\t·rver Friday, September 21, 1979 -page 10 

BACARDI 
RUM 
AMBER 
o.... 

499 
EARLY TIMES 
mma WHISKE1 
11 

~7>0~.439 
r •· ,. 
THE KING'S BEER VALUES: 
SAME !tRICES WARM OR COLD 
BRAND ~-~ 
Stroll'•---------------------------------·6.69 
H•••'• -------------------=------------·5.59 
BLitz --------------------------------------·6.()9
IIISCJI -----------··---------------·6.69
Black L.Jhl_______________________________ s.s9 Okf lliw•llk•-----------------------------5.59 
IHwtiser ------------------~----------·6.69 
OW Styte -------------·---------------6.29
Scllitz -___________________________5.99 
A. I. Lictrt _____________________________,1,.99 
llkt·~ c..., •' ·'I"' __________________________ _:].49
H._•. 

--------------------------14.7 S Lt • ..,...... ·'~·---------------------------9 .s9 
~ I .
J ~ I ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••6.99 ,,... -----·--------------------------· 5.39 ..,... ----------------------·-----6.45 
• ..,. lJtt ---------------------------6.45 flh:tlff -------; ... ---:-~1 ~ ...,; ---4.79 ' 
·~··· -----------------·----------5.09 
~~... -------------------------·--···· 4.99 II Dtti.11 ·-···-·---·······-·-·-•··-·•·-..""-:! 3.99 lu......tster--·w ........ , :. ::: ...:-.~~ 3.9 
-.. . GORDON'S 
SANGRIA 
~s · GIN 
99
750m11 
SPIR\lS 
SUPERMARKETs' 
• VISA' 

..,. ... 899 
ANDRE 
CHAIPlGII£ 
~~~199 
750 ml 
54 DIXIEWAY NORTH _.. _ .___ J~C?~f.LA~~l 200 NORTH MAIN ST · (ELKHART) 
PLUS 4 CONVENIENCE STORES: 
• I T1S • II'OIIWOOI • !UI [. W -.I'
• ,.,. •s"nuu nt • .,.., ~ __... 
-·. 

~ . 
~The Irish Extra 
an Observer sports supplement 


Toss out the records with Boilers and Irish 
by Paul Mullane1 your offensive liite, like we've been Assistant Sports Editor forced to have, it makes preparation more difficult.
About the only safe thing one can 
assume when Purdue and Notre Dame ''They gamble a lot. I guess it's like bump heads on the football field is that going to Las Vegas and guessintat the all records can be thrown out the tables for 60 minutes. If they (Purdue window. defense) guess right for 60 minutes, 
we can be in trouble.' ' 
The Irish-Boilermaker series has long been a spectator's delight. One thing the Boilers will have to Memorable individual performances, guess on is who will open as Irish big upsets and monumental wins have signal-caller. A sprained left ankle, captured top billing on television and suffered in last week's game at in newspapers throughout the past Michigan Stadium, has forced Rusty decades. Lisch to remain at home this weekend. 
All of which doesn't mean a thing as 
"I don't think that type of sl_)rain can tomorrow's 1:30 kickoff approaches. recover in a week," Devine satd earlier 
"You know and I know that we in the week. "Its not a serious sprain, won't see the same Purdue team that but if you don't get a sprain healed UCLA saw last week,'' said Irish coach correctly, it can \ast all season." Dan Devine. "We'll see a whole 
Devine has not announced who willdifferent team." 
start at the helm of the Irish offense,Devine has had more than his share and may not do so until just rrior to 
of luck against the Boilers since kickoff. The position wil most coming to Notre Dame four years ago. probably be ftlled by either Tim Koegel
In fact, Devine's record against Pur­or Mike Courey, both junior quarter­due is unblemished in four straight backs. contests. Nonetheless, the fifth-year 
Devine won't have to worry aboutmentor doesn't envy preparing for a healing the intensity of the intra-state contest against the Gold and Black. 
rivalry, however. "I was playing in a "I think they're the most difficult period of time where Purdue was team to prepare for of all the teams we 
pulling all of those big upsets," said play," offered Devine. "That's be­Devine. "When I first came to Notre 
cause of their complexity on both their Dame, if I asked anybody who our offense and defense. biggest rival was, more Eeople said "I ·think where Purdue has really Purdue than Southern California. developed --and a very smart thing to 
"That was the feeling at that time,do --is that they've gone to a certain so I've always thought of Purdue as amount of motion and play-action and our traditional rival." 
have develo~ed a good running attack. 
Traditional enough so as to throw all They have a completely balanced past records out the window. 
attack with a great passer. It's about the toughest offense you can face." 
Boilermaker quarterback Mark Herrmann, consensus pre-season All­With line flex American, has become a household name throughout the nation. And nobody is as aware of his talents as 
Notre Dame must stop Herrmann 
Devine. "Everybody knows how Mark Herr­
mann can throw the ball," Devine by Craig Chval graduated, let them go ahead. If they line, and came up with a flex insisted. "Hopefully we'll find out Sports Writer want to make a big deal about how alignment, a Ia Tom Landry and the that Herrmann isn't as good on the young his players are, that's OK, too. Dallas Cowboys. In the flex, various scramble as (Michigan quarterback Every year, it seems, people are Because every year, Yonto's defen-linemen take their stance a step or two 
B.J .) Dickey. But Purdue is much whispering about Notre Dame's de-sive crew is ready to go when the bell behind the line of scrimmage. more than Herrmann. They've got fense. rings. Notre Dame hasn't scored a "You use the flex mainly when you good backs, receivers, linemen, and Don't worry about the offense, but touchdown in its first game the past can't go toe-to-toe with people," have great defensive pride." what about that defense? Are they two seasons. In those same two exJ?Iains Yonto. "This y~ar our hne is 
That decense, however, was some-going to be able to stop Southern Cal? games, Yonto's defensive squads have ~lte a hit smaller than it has been in 
1' How about the defensive line? i ld db t 13 · d h d · · 
what suspect in the Boilers' 31-21 loss ' Ye e u pomts. e hast, an we a to~o to It a~amst
And defensive coordinator Joe Yon-F an h · · M' · I ' 
to UCLA last Saturday. Bruin tailback or encore to t e1r stunmng 1c 1gan so we wou n t get own
to plays right along with the skeptics. pe..cormance 1·n Ann Arbor Saturda " 
11 t
Freeman McNeil, for openers, accu-' y, ou .
If the writers want to talk about who th I · h '11 h 1 P d ' AI h h Y · h P
mula ted 173 yards for the victors who e ns WI try to t rott e ur ue s t oug onto promises t at or-jumped out to a 21-0 first quarter lead. Mark Herrmann, who may be the due will get a good look at the flex, he nation's top passer. . won't have to be as concerned with 
Based on that poor defensive show-¥onto acknowledges that stopping getting blown out after the encour­ing, Purdue coach Jim Young expects Herrmann and his slingshot arm will aging performances of Scott Zenek to see quite a bit of Irish star Vagas be an entirely different proposition and Mark Czaja. Ferguson. than harnessing Michigan's B.J. Dick-"I didn't have much of an idea how 
"Ferguson is one of the top running ey. much they'd be able to/lay," admits backs in the country," Young com-''We'll have to take an entirely Yonto, "but they earne their spurs." mented, "and based on the way our different approach this week," Yonto Yonto's optimism has to be damp-defense played last week, I'm sure says. "Mark Herrmann is certainly ened by the loss of Jay Case for the he'll be getting quite a few carries. one of the best, if not the best, season, but the overall mjury report is 
"Our defense didn't have the inten-quarterbacks in the country. He's a bright--Zettek and Czaja reported no sity that we needed to have, and that is pure thrower, he's got a quick release, senous developments, and sophomore a big concern of ours. We're gonna and he's got speed m his backfield and cornerback John Krimm should be have to have a drastic turnabout from a in his receivers. able to play despite a sprained wrist. mental standpoint in order to be ready "We have to get . pressure on The psychological factors certainly for the game." Herrmann, and get him out from don't appear to be on Notre Dame's 
Nevertheless, Devine is by no behind his picket fence. And we also side. The Irish could be due for a means taking the Boiler defense have to have excellent coverage in the letdown· after proving themselves to lightly. "They're a multiple defensive secondarv." the entire nation, and the Boiletm:l­team, which makes vour offensive Notre Dame unveiled a new twist in kers will have blood in their eyes afrer people less-·aggressive':-·-ne··flc)ted:-"'~~...._...illllll:liJoliMI........,,. -.................~-~itl'·~tffl"f'~-~verlinres~ .. ···~J.ast··~·ol';l~.tl)...U~l,A;,.,..:-c.~.-..... "i\nd if you've got youn eo le in Mark Herrmann Yonto juggled his patchwork defensive [contmued on p,;ge J.i] 

The Irish Extra Friday, September 21, 1979-page 12 
Crable, Irish V'grow up quickly· 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Wnter 
There were six seconds remaining in the Notre Dame-Michigan game, and the Irish were clinging to a tenuous two-point lead. Tenuous because the Wolverines had the football on the Notre Dame 25-yard line.---setting the scene for a 42-yard field goal attempt that would give them a 13-12 win. 
On the sidelinc.-s, Notre Dame's coaches and players were planning their strategy. 
They were al'>o chewing their finger­nails. 
Sperial ream~ t oach, (rene Smith, looked up and saw No. 43, Bob Crable, motllllllng ro him from rhe field. 
"Should I ~o. wath)" Crable was· a!-.klllg with 111~ hand-.. Smith hurn·dly n>n;.idernl rhe options. Crable usually di,ln't "go" on field goal coyerage. lit" j .. h was nor to hlork the ki'ck, but rathc·r lCl make ~ure that rhe holder didn't try to run with the ball This ttme. hnwever, with everything depen­dtng on it, Crable wanted to ''go.'· 
"(io1 " Smith signaled bark. That wa-.. all Bob Crable needed ro sec.-. He told teammart· Tim Folc.-y to try and keep the Michigan center from getring up after the snap. Foley nodded as both teams lined up for the kick. During_ the count, Crable thought only about )Ulllptng htgher than he ever Jumped before. 
When the ball was snapped, he did. 
For the Notre Dame football player, camparisons are as frequent as ticket reyue~rs ·· ;~nd mo~t of the rime just as bothersome. It doesn't re;~lly matter what posit ion you play. Someone here before you most likely left an oversized pair of cleats for you to fill. And, lest you forget your illustrious predeces­sor, there are plenty of sports writers and fans amund .to constatnly remind you. 
For Bob Cr;~bl<", the "someone'' was no less than two-rime All-American Bob Gulic. A three-vear fixture in the middle of the Irish defense, Golic tore up the opposition to the tune of 479 career tackles. 
Last Saturday, Crable set about the task of rc.-placing h4m. The 6-3, 220-pound sophomore brought with him to Ann Arbor some pretty impres­sive credentials. An All-American high school player at Cincinnati Moeller, that breeding ground for All-American high school players. Crable spc.-nt his freshman year suppvrting Bobby Leo­pold and Mike Whittington at th' right outside linebacker spot. He picked up 13 tackles in the Cotton Bowl ant w .. n the Hering A ward for the outsta11u1Hg linebacket in spring drills. 
Now, on the opening day of the 1979 season, the starting middle linebacker spot was his. 
"I don't think the fact that I was replacing Bobby (Golic) caused any added pressure," he reflects. "When you play Michigan at Michigan, that's all the pressure you need. Besides, we were great friends. I learned pler.ry from him and Pete Johnson about playing the positiotJ. 
"~'hen you come w Notre Dame as a freshman. you· re a lot like.-a lump of clay," he continues. "The coaches and the upperclas!-.men mold you into a football player." 
Lineb;~cker coach George Kelly is extremely proud of his latest work of at r He calls Crable "the complete fo,Hhall player." 
··Bob is a terrific asset to our foot hall ream." says Kelly. "He has gre;~r talent and a great de-sire to play and do af, well <1~ he can. He give~ us 100 percc.-nr on t"Very play, whet her in practice or in a game, and his atritude ts tn~piring tn the other guys around him Ht~ enthusiasm is infectious.'' 
And Crable carries it with him from the field to the dormitory, where he's acknowledged as somewhat of a section leader. When asked about his antics, he just smiles. 
"I guess I'm just very open and outgoing," he shrugs. "I get a little loud sometimes, especially when I have a lot of school work.'' He gestures toward a statistics book lying open on his desk. 
"That makes me want to scream!" 
And when he does let loose a holler, everyone within earsho• knows it's him. 
"I gut"<:<; rhrv :-~II know my voice," he gnn~ mischievously A re'iident oL Grace ~ l.tll, t r.d.Jk hves with Kevin Schmidt, Curt Bailey and walk-on punter Don Powalski. He claims "they don't mind putting up with me." · 
"Bob's a great guy," agrees anoth­er Grace resident. "He has plenty of school spirit and he gets the other guys going. Sort of like Doug Becker used to do in Stanford Hall. And the best thing about him is that he's nor conceited -­he doesn't think he's above people because he plays football. When he meets someone, he goes our of his way to remember their name and say hello the next rime he sees them." 
"h's all a ;•art of what makes Bob Crable a complete Notre Dame student athlete," comments Dan Devine. "He is a great player and a great represen­tative of our stu• lt nt body." 
As the ball was placed by the Michigan holder, Bob Crable stepped over the Wolverine center --who, by rhe way, never did get up. Placekicker Bryan Virgil approached the ball and Crable shot straight up. He was two feet higher than anyone else. 
"The ball hit me in the left hip," he revealed after the game. "I don't know wlwther the kick would have been got~d _or not, but I think it would have deftntrely cleared the ltne." · 
And then, with no more questions, Crable hurredly showered, dressed and boarded the bus for the long ride back to South Bend. When the team arrived, 4,000 studel•ts were waiting to 
[continued on page 14] 

ND 's Tim Fole_y 
He 's much more than just size 

by Michael Ortman Sports Wn'ter 
Ask just about any football coach what he looks for in an offensive lineman, and the answers, more than likely, will contain the following. 
"He\; ~->t to be big, strong and dedicart".l On top of that, I need at l~ast one ·-vith good leadership abili­ues. 
Coach, I'd like to introduce you to Tim Foley. 
Calling Notre Dame's senior tackle big might be an understatement for a man who ranks up there with the Great Wall of China. At 6-5, 265, Foley keeps many defenders away by just walkmg onto the field. · 
Foley's size and strength are not flukes. He works at it, and works hard. His off-the-field dedication to the game is outstanding. As he prepared for his final season with the Irish, Foley spent two or three hours a day, three rimes a week, in the weight room, pumping iron until he was ready to drop. Any more lifting would ruin him. 
When not in the weight room, Foley would run ... , and run, and run. No, not around the track or around the campus. This dedicated soldier stayed closer to the battle f"~ld, running laps ..tround the stadium. No, nor on the tield or the parking lot outside but on the stq.s. Up and down, up and down, from row one to 60, from section one to 36, Foley would push harder and harder. 
Leadership) Well, he's one of the 
Tim Foley 
tri-captains for the Irish this year, and that should tell you a lot. Foley views his role as a captain as being something pretty special. • 
"h (being captain) is a great privilege," he says, "and also a great challenge. It's especially challenging during a week like this. We're coming off a big win and might have a tendency to tail off a bit. Purdue is in a very different situation after losing to UCLA. I think it's my job to help·keep spirits up and try to keep the guys confidem without them gerring over­confident.'' 
Foley has another, more important role to play on Saturday afternoons. Playing down in the trenches does not reap fame and glory for the indivi­duals. They can't be rated on the number of yards they gain, the number of tackles they make, the number of passes they catch or the number of points they score. The only time a spectator hear~ about an offensive hneman is when he has been caught holding or jumping the count. 
''An offensive lineman has to be a unique person," contends Foley. ''It's not a fun position. It's not a glorious position. What is rewarding is turning around and seeing Vagas Ferguson standing in the end zone and knowing that he ran through a hole that you made." 
As linemen go, Foley has gotten his share of recognition. He received several votes for offensive.-player of the game in the 1978 Cotton Bowl, an honor won by Ferguson. Last season, the Cincinnati native received honor­able mention on the All-American team, and more honors are yet to come. 
So what does the future hold for this big, strong, dedicated lineman? A spot in the NFL draft seems cerrain. When you liave been playing on rhe line for 11 years, doing n for a living doesn't seem ·so bad. "Hopefully I can play pro ball for a ft"w years,'' says Foley, "bur I'll be gerring my SUl:iul­ogy .?egr~t· soon. I' II just play it by ear. 
Surely, a number of pro reams have their eyes on Foley. After all. he has everything they're looking for. 

The Irish Extra 
The author, Dave Kitchell, is sports editor of The Purdue Exponent, stu­dent newspaper at Purdue University. 
by Dave Kitchell 

When Purdue linebacker Kevin Motts was growing up in South Bend, he could look out his bedroom window and see the golden dome of the Notre Dame campus. 
"Now," Motts says, "the trees have grown a little bit taller, but I know it's still there." Motts, Purdue's all-time leading tackler, knows too that his college team hasn, t resistered a victory over Notre Dame 1n his four years as the Boilermakers' strong side . linebacker. 
But Motts quickly comments when 
asked about Purdue's lack of wins 
during his three-year tenure. "No, we 
haven't won against Notre Dame. I 
feel we've beaten Notre Dame, but 
that deep down, well, sometimes you 
don· t expect to win. 

"I know I've heard Bo Schembech­
ler talk at Big Ten functions and say 
that Michigan wins because they 
expect to win. Coach Young told me 
that and it kind of hit close to home. 
You don't say, 'I hope to win, I hope to 
win.' You say, 'I expect to win.' " 
Motts has seen his team come close 
to beating the Irish, but the Boilers 
have come up just short of turning the 
trick. In 1977, the Riveters lost a 10­
point lead and wound up losing 31-24. 
Last year at SoJ.lth Bend, Motts, on his 
21st birthday, led all tacklers with 12 
solo tackles in the Boilers' 10-6 loss. 
The mustachioed Motts holds no 
spite for his Notre Dame opponents, 
but hides no love either. "I always 
wanted to play against Notre Dame. 
It's just something I've always wanted 
to do. Nothing against Notre Dame -­
they have a fine team --it's just that 
I've always wanted to do it." 
In the same breath, the leader of 
Purdue's "Junk Defense" is assuring 
in the fact that this is the year the 
Boilers will finally end a four-year 
losing string against the Irish. "It's 
not just something I'm wishing for, it's 
I 
1 

:wad: Herrmann 
t 
i 
! 


leading tackler. He is pictured here attempting to stop Vagas Ferguson in last year's game at South Bend. [photo courtesy of South Bend Tribune] . 
• 
Purdue's quarterback legacy 
by Mark Perry 
Sports Editor 
Over the years, Notre Dame 
has become rather famous for 
producing fine quarterbacks. 
Four Heisman Trophy win­
ers have played that position 
for the Irish, and names like 
Hanratry, Theismann, Clem­
ents, and Montana have 
meant excitement for ND 
fans in recent years. 
But fine signal-callers 
are not limited to Notre. 
Dame. Mark Herrmann, who 
will be battling Irish defenses 
in West Lafayette tomorrow, 
is one of a long line of Purdue 
quarterbacks who have turn­
ed the Irish-Boilermaker con­
test into an aerial show in the 
past. 
The tradition of throwing 
quarterbacks at Purdue began 
in 1945, when a freshman from 
Kentucky guided the Boilers to 
a 35-13 upset of Ohio State. Bob 
DeMoss, who would later serve as 
head coach at Purdue and is the cur­
rent assistant athletic director, was 
the first Boilermaker to throw for over 2,000 yards in his career. . 
fhe coach that turned DeMoss loose was Stu Holcomb, who would later coach rwo other Purdue greats: Dale Samuels and Len Dawson. 
Samuels became the first Boiler QB to throw for over 1,000 yards in one season, and directed Purdue to a share of the Big Ten crown in 1952. But his biggest accomplishment <:arne in his first year. Samuels faced a Notre Dame team that had been undefeated for 39 straight games, and had won three national titles in the past four years. Playing in the rain at South Bend, Samuels led the Boilers to a 28-14 win, the start of Frank Leahy's worst year at Notre Dame. 
Dawson, who would find great success in the NFL and AFL, guided Purdue to two winning seasons in his college career, and was the first thrower to show great accuracy, completing over 50 percent of his passes in a three-year period. He still rank's third in passing efficiency, and also is credited with the longest pass in Boilermaker history, a 95-yard comple­tion to Erich Barnes against Northwes­tern in 1955. 
Up until1963, Purdue teams had not been able to benefit greatly from their quarterbacks. This all changed when Bob Griese took over. Before he went on to even greater success with the Miami Dolphins, Griese guided the Boilers to three winning seasons, including a Rose Bowl appearance in 1966 -· the only bowl game for a Purdue team until their Peach Bowl contest against Georgia Tech last year. 
Griese also enjoyed the best day for 
any qua'rterback against Notre Dame, 
as he completed 19 of 22 tosses in the 1965 game in a 25-21 upset win. Griese still ranks fourth on the all-time Big Tendassing leaders list. 
Secon place. on that list belongs to Mike Phipps, the first Purdue quarter­back to throw for over 5,000 yards. Phipps, who still holds several Purdue records, also led the Boilers to three winning seasons, including a share of the Big Ten title in 1967. He is probably best remembered, at least by Notre Dame fans, as the only quarter­back to engineer three straight wins over the Irish. 
In 1969 he enjoyed his best year, completing 169 of 321 attempts for 2,527 yards and 23 touchdowns, still the best season in Big Ten history. The Cleveland Browns made Phipps their number one draft choice after that year, but Phipps has .,,..,. ,.,;n"'"rl outstanding success in the NFL, ali') is currently battling for the numbe1 one quarterback job with the Chicago Bears. 
Succeeding Phipps. but not enjoying as much success, was Gary Danielson. Bob DeMoss returned to Purdue a" head coach, bur could not field reams that rould use Danielson's talents. Dan1elson' s presence on the Detrnit Lions this season pegged them as early season favorites. hut an injury ha::. delayed any ~rtemprs at NFL stardom by the Purdue alumnus. 
Threatening ro· pass all of these 

Purdue 4uannbacks is Mark .Herr­
[contlnued on page l4J 



Conference race after losing their f.trst far is a missed extra point.'' 
two games, play at Kent State. Ball State hasn ·t lost its f.trst three games of a season in 20 years. 


''With two losses behind us, the game becomes critically important,'' 
Dan Devine jim Young 
says Coach Dwight Wallace, whose • • . Crable 
HeadCoa.ch 
Head Coach 

MAC champion Cardinals were 8-0 in
38-10-0 (Jth year] 15-9-1 [3rdyearJ 
the conference and 10-1 overall last [continued from 12) year. 
greet them, and Bob Crable enjoyed 
OFFfiiiSE 

OFFENSE ''Kent State played a very phvsical ~:very minute of the wild scene. game against us last year, and I would "It was really neat," he emphasized
POS. PLAYER HT. WT, CL.
POS. PLAYER HT. WT. CL. 
expect the same type of aggressive ''The students met us way down on
TE u..." .Junu bb 2J5 J~:
T• lltdn Mautak : 4 2L~ :.0 
LT Henry FeU 6-4 257 Jr. Angela (Boulevard) and started climb­
ll Rob MCII1in:~v•~ f4 260 Sr LG John Leon 6-l 240 Sr. 

LG Dale Schwan 6-4 241 Sr ing on the buses. The players were c Jonn Scully 6-4 245 Sr. 
c Pete Oumn 6-2 234 Sr. 
really impressed and we all really
RG Don Hall 6-2 234 Sr.
Rli Larry Hufford 6-3 236 Sr 
appreciated it."
RT SJeve McKenzie 6-5 248 Sr. SE Bart Burrel 6-2 180 Jr. But, it's back to the business at 
RT Tim Foley 6-5 265 Sr. SE TClOY Hunter 6-5 210 Fr. OB Tim Koegel 6-4" 194 Jr. 
• • • Legac..y
OB Mark Herrmann 6-4 188 Jr hand as the Irish faced grueling
TB Wally Jones 193
HB Vaga.s Ferguson 6-1 194 Sr. 
6-1 So practice sessions in preparation for
FB John Macon 6-() 202 Jr.
FS John S'N!tefley 6-2 220 Fr. 
FL Mike Harris 6-() 186 Sr. Purdue, tomorrow's opponent. For
FL Pete Holonan 6-4 215 Jr. 
p [continued from page 13)
p 
Joe Linville 6-0 170 So. Crable, however, practices are getting
Dick llou$hka 6-4 100 Jr. 
mann. In only two years, Herrmann
PK Jolln Seibel 5-11 185 Sr. a little easier to take. One reason is
PK ·CtiUCk Male 5-11 180 Sr. 
moved into third place on the career because his shoes are fitting better.
passing list, and his performances
DEFENSE You know ... the ones Bob Golic left 
OEFENU 

against Wisconsin and UCLA this
-: 
him. 

season have already moved him past
LE John HankerO 6-4 241 Jr 
DE Tom Kmgso4ry 5-10 202 Jr. LT Scott Zettek 6-5 235 Jr 

DT Calvin Clarlt 6-5 246 Jr. Griese into second place, and third on RT ..Kevm Griffith 6-3 230 So. 
DT Marcus Jackson 6-4 254 Sr. the Big Ten list. With six touchdown 
RE Joe Gramke 6-4 234 So. 
DE Keena Turner 220 Sr.
6-3 passes in those two games, the
LLB Mike Whittmgton 6-2 219 Sr. 
LB Kevin Motts &2 232 Sr. 
talented junior has the Purdue record
MLB BoO Crable So. 
MG Ken Loushrn 6-2 248 Sr. RLB Botltly Leopold &2 217 Sf'. 
6-3 220 

LB Mitrk .lollanson 6-1 211 Sr. for career scoring tosses with 38, one LCB Dave VVayJ1181 . 6-3 1!18 Sr. 
CB Wayne Smith 6-() 180 Sr. mbre than Phipps. ' ' ' 

RCB ·John Knmm &1 So 


CB Bill Kay Jr.
183 

6-2 192 Barring injury, Herrmann should
ss Steve CiChy 6-3 215 So. 
ss Tim Senetf 6-2 200 So. 
eclipse most of Purdue's career rec­[continued from page 11)
FS Tom Gi boons 6-1 185 Jr. 
FS Rollert Williams 5-9 175 Jr. 
ords, and should also pass Phipps and ''I'm not worried too much about an Ed Smith on the Big Ten career emotional letdown," says Yonto. "We' IRISH EXTRA SUPPLEMENT STAFF passing list. just have to pressure the passer, and With a tradition of great quarter­watch out for draws and screens. backs at both Notre Dame and Purdue, "It's too early to tell how good ViC:

Editor, .I.Vlark Perry 
you can be pretty sure of one thing are," he says, "But I hope we flay whenever the Irish and Boilermakers like we did in the second hal at
Layout and Design, P~ul Barry Mullaney meet. Watch out for flying footballs! Michigan, not the first half." 

·Records close as Observer st 








~ 



Blth Huffmln Fr~nk LJGrottl Cr~lg ChVII Paul Stauder Sports Editor Asst. Sports Ed tor 
Mlrk PliiV Paul Mull101~ 
Women's S~rts Editor Sports Writer Sports Writer WSND Sports Director 782 .739 .7 .696 .739 .696 
Georgia Tech Florida Georgia Tech Florida Georgia Tech Florida Georgia Tech at florida 
Florida

GIOrgia Tec:h 
by6 by? by7 by10 by9 by8 by 4by7 
Texas Texas Texas Texas Texas Texas Texas at Texas 
Texas

Iowa State 
by 10 by20 by17 by17 by12 by13 by18by10 
Kansas Michi~an Michigan Mich~an Mlch~an Michigan Michigan Michigan
Mlch~an 
at Michigan by 1 by . by10 by by by20 by25 by 28 
Miami \Fla.\ Florlaa State Florida State Florida State Florida State Florida State Florida State Florida State Florida State at Florida State by 7 by 13 by 14 bylO by24 by15 by 12 by 11 
Miami !Ohlol Michigan State Michigan State Michigan State Michigan State Michigan State Michigan State Michigan State Michigan State at Michigan Stall by 14 by30 by 18 by 10 • by21 by21 by16 by 24 
Minnesota Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal / Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal 
at Southern Cal by 17 by25 by 16 by17 by29 by 25 by17 by 18 
Pittsburgh North Carolina North Carolina Pittsburgh Pittsburgh North Carolina North Carolina North Carolina Pittsburgh 
at North Carolina by3 . by 7 by7 by10 by9 . by3 by2 by? 
Washington State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State 
at Ohio State by 10 by 7 by10 by 13 by 13 by 14 'by 7" by5 
Texas A&M Penn State Penn State Penn State Penn State Penn State Penn State Penn State Penn State 
at Penn State by7 by 2 by 12 by 10 by 11 by5 by? by 10 
UCLA UCLA Wisconsin UCLA UCLA UCLA UCLA Wisconsin UCLA 
at Wlscpnsm by 17 by 3 by6 by14 by6 by 13 by 2 oy3 
Illinois Illinois Illinois Air Force Air Force Illinois Air Force Illinois Illinois 
at Air Force by3 ~y 7 by3 by3 by 14 by12 by4 by 17 
The Irish 

Irish -Boilers 
D1t1: September 22. 1979 Sl\1: Ross·Ade Stadium, West Lafayette, Ind. (69,200)Tl1111: 1:30 p.m. EST Rldlo: WSND. AM-&4, Notre Dame Campus. Paul Stauder and Brian Beglane 
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network, AI Wester and Pat Sheridan Tellvlllon: WNDU·TV, Ch. 16(1ocal only), Tom Dennin and Jeff Jeffers 
ESPN Cable srtem, Bill O'Donnell S.rla: Notre Oame 3 , Purdue 17, Tied 2 Lui Milling: September 30, 1978 •• Notre Dame 10, Purdue 6 CORIICUtiVI: Notre Dame, 4 straight, 1975-1978 Ruldnga: Notre Dame 5th, P~rdue 17th (Associated Press) 
Friday, September 21, 1979 -page 14 
.SyCa01ores take· ~o road in other Indiana contests 
play this year. We have some bumps
by STEVE HERMAN 
and bruises, but hopefully we'll be
AP Sports Writer 
near full strength for the game." The Sycamores, meanwhile, haveIndiana State's unbeatenSycamores already equalled last year's entireplay at New Mexico State in an victory total. 
unportant Missouri 'Valley Conferc!nce 
"It's an important conference game,football game on Saturday, while Ball as they all are, and we have a lot ofState's Cardinals and nine other respect for the A~gies," Indiana State Indiana college teams go after first Coach Dick ] amteson said. ''Theirvictories of the season. 
only loss was by a point (14-13 at The Cardinals, facing a long difficult Drake) and the only thing keepingclimb to get back in the Mid-American them from an undefeated record thus 

and Special Guest 
BLACKFOOT 
FRIDAY OCTOBER 19th 8 pm -. Notre Dame ACC 
-
Tickets $8.50 and S7.50 
' 
,; 
r'
On sale now at · ACC Box Office , ' and Student Union Ticket Office 
Features 
LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 
A 'TTS ' Situation 
I hope you're glad to be back. I am overwhelmed by work; my seventeen year old sister now lives with me. That's a sad story. I am taking her for an abortion ·tomorrow. $300.00-­the donor said, "an expensive night of love"_ That's the least of it. So it's a hectic, somewhat rending time. 
--from a letter 

"Oh Christ," I said cursing out loud as I read the paragraph, "Oh Christ Almighty!" I wasn't sure if I was cursing or praying. Ifl was praying, I ft"lt like cursing; if I was cursing, I needed to be praying. "Oh Christ Almighty!" were the inadequate words my emotions lit on. 
I was too angry with the little fool of a younger sister to feel sorry for her. The older sister -the one with three hundred dollars she undoubtedly had to borrow--was doing the best she knew how to do in an unhappy situation; but in my judgment, she helped matters to become truly ugly. I knew the arguments she would give me if I told her I hated what she had done. 
"I hated it, too," she would say, ''but what else could I have done? She's my sister, and I'm supposed to take care of her, and her boyfriend hasn't got a dime. It wouldn't be fair to the baby co let it be born to kids who aren't even sure they want to get married.'' 
It was a classic case of a TIS situation, 1 thought ... if the situation can Turri To Sh--, it probably will. The girl should have been helped before she started living with her boyfriend. This summer, in July, when she was still sixteen, she left home to live with some guy who is a college senior. He was going to help her finish high school. 

A priest standing around the Notre Dame post office --muttering half prayers, near-curses, in tones that can be overheard by the nuns--helps no one. I started home, thinking of the evils that threaten life. The statistics of the ugly thing that some doctors do are familiar to me; but an abortion on a seventeen year old ~irl, the sister of a dear friend, ts a statistic shoved brutally near. In such circumstances, you get angry because an embryo's life has been interrupted. 'You get angry at the way a young person has hurt herself. You get angry because men and women, young and old, do not know how to take care of themselves, and probably never wtJl. You get angry because they do not know what they are doing, and sometimes they don't care to know. You get angry because you can't help them, you can't tell them, you can't warn them in any way that will do any good. 
You say, "Hey there, youngster; that's a funny looking cigarette you're smoking. It can mix up your head." 
"Mind your own business, cheese dip,'' the youngster replies. ''J know what I'm doing." 
Rev. Robert Griffin_ 
''What you are doing, young man, is playing with the moods of your mi'ld. Minds don't respond well to havmg their moods played with. You keep getting high, and after a while the lows will feel as though they're going to kill you. I know youngsters who end up in the psychiatric ward from doing your kind of thing: a little pot, a diet of amphetamines, a bout with beer. One day, they're pacing the floor at midnight, dealing with name-·· less anxieties, breaking out in cold sweats. They never touched the hard drul!s. only die soft stuff they imagined they understood. Neverthe­less, they end up talking with the psychiatrist about this temptation they have .to commit suicide. Sometimes their parents have to hire nurses in white coats to guard them against harming themselves." 
Nobody ever believes a spoilsport. So, in the morning, when you read your mail, your language eru{>ts into curses. On campus, you stop m front of Sorin' s statue·. "Christ Almighty, Edward," you say, "all you had to do was cheat a few Indians." I don't know ifSorin cheated the Indians, or not. I simply had to criticize some­body who wouldn'tfight back. 
At lunch, in the dmmg hall I met a friend who thinks, when I write, I'm preoccupied with sadness, the laur­eate of"lacrimae rerum" --in Virgil's phrase, "the tears of things," the Latin form for the TIS situations. 
My friend said, "How are you?" 
''Christ Almighty,'' I replied with 
disgust. He could see I was not in 

one of my finest moods as the court jester. ·'It's a TIS kind of world." "I'll leave you to eat your words," he said. 
Later. outside the dining hall, talked with a student playing frisbee. "I wish they would turn off the sprinkler," he said. "The water makes the grass slippery. I've already fallen twice. ' ' 
"If they turned off the sprinkler," I said, "it would be because it was raining." I watched him as he scooped the frisbee out of the air and sent it skimming like a bird, in a single graceful motion. Not bad, I thought for a chap who has fallen twice. He didn't even feel the fall; if it were me, I wouldn't be able to walk. 
the water, in pools and droplets on the blades of grass, glistened brightly, as though the lawn had turned to sunlight. 
"It's a' TIS situation ... Turned To Sunlight .. situation," I thought. 
On the days when you read your mail at the post office, students playing games in the sunlight are a cheerful sight on the quads. They seem to belong to the sunlight, and the sunlight belongs to them. 
May the Christ Almighty keep them from the times and places where they lose the sun. N1ghts can be an expensive experience, costing $300 aptece, and that's the least of it. The mornings after those expensive nights can be described as a hectic, some,rhat rending time. That's the point where we began. 
A Bad Case ofRobert Palmer Tom Jackman 
kobert Palmer's musical career continues to drift aiml~ssly in the shadows of mediocrity, and his latest effort, Secrets, will do little to change that. It seems that every time his name is mentioned, the words "promise" and "potential" inevitably follow. "His next album will be Palmer's piece de resistance," they:always say. Well, I'm getting tired of waiting. 
Palmer has several difficulties which he simply refuses to resolve in this album, and until he does he's not going to hit the big time. First of all, his backup musicians (Palmer doesn't play anything) are mediocre. He has cut his ties with Little Feat, who used to back birr·. :--r0bably in favor of a band who could rour_ with him. These guys are uo very good, or not what we are sho" ·, ·· them anyway. At least when Rod Stewart left Faces he had the common sense to assemble a decent backup band. 
Second, Palmer has yet to make a move towards either the pop or rock audiences (I assume he s not going disco -yet). He's solidly neutral. This may not be all bad, for the strongest song on the album is his single, "Bad Case of ~vin~ You (Doctor, Doctor)." It's danceable, has a melody, and at the same time is a quasi-rocker. The song has a something for everybody. But every­thing else is either one or the other, and he really hasn't made a name for himself, in either venue, as a result. 
!
Third, the man cannot write a ; melody. He wrote or co-wrote five of '1the eleven songs on the album, most f/ of which are, thanks to the producer, · hidden on the bottom of the second 1side. He did not write any of theli three singles, "Doctor, Doctor,". : "Can We Still Be Friends?" or 
")ealous," and all of the lyrics, regardless of their author, are eminently forgettable. 
So why listen? Well, ''Doctor, Doctor" isn't a bad tune, and it's selling fairly well as a single. "Can We Still Be Friends?" is a faithful, it unremarkable, rendition of Todci Rundgren's original. "In ~alks Love Again" is cute, with some harp work thrown in to break up the monotony. And ")ealous" is, if nothing else, a toe-tapper. 
But that's about it. You may have heard that Palmer repeats the word '')ealous' ' 17 times in the song of the same name. That's just not true. It's 24 times. That should give you some idea of the quality of the lyrics throughout Secrets. Palmer shows us he can indeed sing here, and there's room for some improvisational accompaniment, but Kenny Mazur really doesn't take advanta_ge. 
"Love Stop" seems to flow fairly well through the ftrst few stanzas, but is absolutely ruined by some truly innocuous guitar interludes, again by · Mazur. The rhythm section of Pierre Brock on bass and Dony Wynn on drums is most undistinguished, and the keyboard work ofJack W aidman and Steve Robbins is not noticeable, except on Rundgren's "Friends?", which they couldn't help anyway. 
The second side, after "Jealous", is nothing but bad, and I can't imagine even the most hardcore Robert Palmer fan listening to it 9ery' often. The best example of this is "Woman You're Wonderful," on which there is some noteworthy guitar jamming by Mazur completely obscured by the unrelenting rhythm lines. You can just barely hear it even if you listen closely. Also, the background vocals on "What's It Take?" are actually moans which sound quite funny. Palmer did produce the LP, but that's not necessarily something to brag about. The cover of the album portrays Palmer shaving, I guess to show us Palmer has matured now. Perhaps this will come through in the live act he brings to Morris Civic Auditorium this Sunday, but I doubt it. 
What's All This, Then? Mark Ferron
TEU :IJSJON 

PBS [Channel 34] 3vening ,1t Pops at 7pm Sunday, Sept. 23 (also at 7pm Wed., Sept. 26) tfonoring Arthur Fiedler's fiftieth anniversary with the Boston Pops pianist Earl Wild performs Ger­shwin's "Rhapsody in Blue." Fidd­ler and the Pop's Orchestra offer a medly from "Hair" and the popular Sousa march "Stars and Stripes Forever." 
National Geographic Special at 9:30 pm Sun., Sept. 23 "The Volga" A voyage along the mighty river that flows through the heart of Russia. A camera team ventures into a riverside village of a Soviet state farm and a modern Soviet city. 
Live From The Met at 7pm Mon.,. Sept. 24 "Otello" Opening the Metropolitan Opera's 1979-80 sea­son, Verdi's "Otello" will be con­ducted by the Met's music director, James Levine, with Placido Domongo in the tide role. 
AllStar Swing Festival at Spm Tues., Sept. 25 A concert of jazz and swing music by the artists of the Big Band era who made it popular. Doc Severinson hosts the musical show­case featuring such artists as Count Basie, Ella Fttzgerald, Duke Elling­ton and the Benny Goodman Quartet. 
Great Performances at Spm Wed., Sept. 26 "Music in America" The Allman Brothers Band, Aaron Cope­land, Lena Horne, Phyllis Curtin and Donald Gramm join together in this special about the American exper­ience as expressed in its songs. 


Features Friday, September 21, 1979 -page 17 
LAPEL in Lima, Peru 
''No there is no country more diverse, more multtPie in earthly and human van.ety; a!/ the degrees of warmth and color, of love and hate, of schemes and subtleties ... '' 
J.M. Argueda~ 

On a hot afternoon in May of 1978 I 
said goodbye to my family in Chicago 
and, with a mixture of doubt and 
·lecision, embarked upon the most 
important journev of mv life, a 
journey which was to teach and change 
me greatly. 

As a participant in the Latin 
American Program for Experiential 
Learning (LAPEL), I spent nine 
months in Lima, Pe.ru. My :."xperi­
ence in Latin America first be-gan. 
however, in Luernavaca, Mexico 
where I studied Spanish in a langu­
age school with Fran Evans, another 
student participating in LAPEL 
After six weeks of intensive Spanish 
preparation, we began our trip south, 
through Central America, to Peru. 
We traveled for more than two weeks 
by bus, from Mexico to Panama, and 
from there we flew first to Ecuador 
and then to Lima, Peru. 

The time spent in Mexico and in 
travelling through Central America 
was a valuable introduction to life in 
Latin America, but not until we 
reached Lima did we begin to experi­
ence the lik of the people in any real 
sense. 

THIS WEEEKEND ... 
CINEMA--ON 

The Giveri Word at 3:30,6,8:30 on Sept.21. Library Auditorium. Brazil­ian film tells the story of a simple peasant farmer who wants to place a huge, woodf"n rross in the village church as an offering He is denied his request by the churh priest and a battle of wills tllkf"" place. This film was the Grand Prize winner at the Cannes Fe~llval 10 1962. 
A...klw:q 4,£!J..'J_Nothin' Bu.t a Sandwich 
at 6, 8:30, 11 on Fn, Sept. 21. Engineering Audiorium.1977. 
M'A 'S'H on Saturday, Sept. 22 Carrol Hall, SMC. The witty movie directed by Robert Altman won an Oscar for Best Screenplay in 1970. Set during thf" Korean War, the crew of surgical 1 ; MASH 4077 clown and pull outJ ageous pranks to offset the horrors ol war . Hawkeye (Donald Sutherland) and Trapper]ohn (Elliot Gould) harass Hot Lips Hoolihan (Sally Kellerman) by exposing her during her shower to see if she's a natural blond, and drive Frank Burns (Robert Duvall) riBht to the loony ward. The film's brggest highlight is the hysterical football game. 
Father Panchali at 7:30 on Mon., Sept. 24. Washington Hall. Part of· the ND/SMC film series. 
The Longest Yard at 7, 9:15, 11:30 on Tues. and Wed., Sept. 25 & 26. Engineering Auditorium. Burt Rey­nolds is the football star who, imprisoned for drunkenness and car theft, is blackmailed into training a prison football team. Eddie Alben is the evil, smiling prison guard who must be assured that the inmates will be demolished and humiliated in their game with the guard football team. Violent comedy with murder­ous jokes, although the football game itself is rather funny. Directed by Robert Aldric~; .. ' Glm was released in Great Britain .... 1er the title ''The Mean Machine." 1974. 
My Uncle Antoine at 7:30 on Thurs, 
Sept. 27. Washington HALL 
1\ nother in the ND I SMC film series. 
Lima, the capital of Peru, is a rapidly expandmg city of over four million people. Fran and I lived in one of the many very poor ''pueblos jovenes" or "young towns" which ring the city in a belt of misery. 
As the name of the program implies, it is one of expen'ential learmng. During the year we learned a great many things, the most valuable of which came directly from our experi­ences and our reflections on them. Our experiences and activities fell roughly into four areas. 
In the first place, living with the poor and sharing thei~ way of life was tn itself a very strong and formative educational experience. Fran and I each rented rooms and did all of the necessary things that one must do to live: going every day to the open-air market to buy food for daily meals, cooking on a kerosene stove, doing our wash by hand, etc. We lived among the people, who were poor and shared with them to the extent we were able. We never once stopped learning from them. 
Secondly, there was the experience 
of service. Soon after we arrived we 
began to work in tWO nearby schools. 
In the mornings I worked with 
mentally retarded children and with 
deaf and mute children in a school for 
special education. Fran worked in 
the mornings in the library of a grade 
school and high school. (The library 
was begun by Mary Hawley, one of 
the LAPEL participants from the year 
before and currently an N.D. senior.) 
JU.f' t-+1 ~... ReAseo 1 f.!o 6.JT" ~-I,Fol-1{5, 
A ~IJI.tl-rnu-16-~et7 '1V tolE OIJ M'-1 WA'-/'tlJ TI-lE. J-.lAzz. To.\~ .. 

CINEMA--OFF CAMPUS 
MeatbaUs at 7:30, 9:30 Boiler H0u~, Flix. Bill Murray unsuccessfuiL tries to emulate his co-worker ] ohn Btl ushi, only this timf" it t:tkf·<., rlace in a summer camp. Disappointing. 
Star Wars at 7 & 9:30 Boiler House Flix. Luke, Chewbacca, Artoo-Dee­too and all the rest of the crew return in this soon to be recopied film. 
It's Not The Size That Counts at 2,4,6,8,10 University Park. "It's about what you think u's about," say the promos and I don't think it's about hats. Features Vincent Price. 
LoveandBullets at 1:30,3:30,5:30, 7:30, 9:30. River Park Theatre. 
The Amityvzlle Hon-or at 2:15, 4:50, 7:40, 9:50 University Park II. A young couple (MarBot Kidder and James Brolin) move Into a new house and find that it's inhabited with demons. 
More American Graffiti at I, 3:05, 5:10, 7:25, 9:50 University Park III. The same cast (save Richard Drey­fuss and his girl, Suzanne Somers) move on into the 1960's with less­In the afternoon~ we switched places and while I worked in the library, Fran taught ceramics to kids with physical disabilities. 
than-funny  results.  An terribly  
unnecessary  sequel  to  American  
Graffiti.  '  

Academic work is a very important component of LAPEL. Participants may be given fifteen credits from Notre Dame professors for work done in Peru under the direct supervision of Fr. Roberto Plasker. 
Fr. Plasker, who has lived in South America for many years and lives and works in another pueblo joven out­side ofLima, is the director of LAPEL in Peru. On the day Fran and I arrived, we were given reading assignments. We then met abou"t once a week with Fr. Plasker to discuss the readings -which dealt with the economy, government, his­tory, theology, literature and culture of Peru. In the last part of the year Fran and I each prepared an inter­disciplinary study reflecting what we had learned through our experiences and studies. 
The fourth area is much more 
difficult to describe -the awakening 
and formation of my faith as a 
Christian. From daily experiences 
with the people and studying theolo­
gy from their perspective, I came to 
understand my faith in a new way. It . 
became nor merely an individual­
matter, but a social one -faith 
understood in terms of a people, a 
community. My faith came to be an 
important and even vital part of my 
day to day life in a way I had never 
before known. 
More Filn1 for Thought 
"There ain't no more way to be a child." As Benjie shows us in "A Hero Ain't Nothin' but a Sandwich," the world does not want to let us be young and innocent. Benjie grows up much faster than those around him realize, leaving him torn between their idea of what a 13-year-old should be and his own reality. 
As all of the movies running in the Social Concerns Film Series this week, "A Hero Ain't Nothin' but a Sandwich" faces cleanly and honest­ly issues which are present with us constantly, encouraging us to deal with them as Benjie does. We can be no more innocent that he; we too must answer the questions thar crowd armmd him. 
PERFORMANCE--ON CAMPUS 
Comedy at the Nazz at 9:30pm Sat., Sept. 22 La Fortune Basement. The comedic ftaleots of students Pat Byrnes, Bill Sebastian, Dan Wrat'e, Mark Davis, Bill Stratman, M1ke Natale, Bill Herbert---the ] acuzzi Brothers guarantee a zany time. 
Orchestral Concert at 8pm Sun., Sept. 23 O'Laughlin Aud., SMC. The Ars-Musica Baroque Orchestra, an ensemble of 18th Century instru­ments such as three-key oboes, four-kev bassoons, the one key flute, har p~rLhoJ d, baroque cello, baroque violins ;,.nd viola, recorder, and violone, will feature the "Con­certo For Four Harpc;ichords" by Bach. 
Harp Concert at 8:15pm on Wed., Sept. 26. Library Audiorium. Gerald 
,Charlie Kenney 
I came w appreci.;lte and enjoy the people I met, people who became my friends, and as the year went on I truly grew to love them. From them I learned a new way of being, of what it is to be a person of hope. For I found thr-r '1 midst the oppression and suffering -which are so tragically and violently real -hope is found in the people themselves and in their faith. They are no longer U.N. statistics on hunger, malnourishment, child mor­tality, unemployment, etc., but ra­ther friends and neighbors, almost like familv, people that became integral •.. rr.. of my life and my being. Le:~ving these people at the end of t.w yeu. was one of the very most dihiwl£ things I have ever done. 
In returning to N.D. this fall, I have found that the journey upon which I set out has not come to an end, but is, perhaps, just beginning. Only re­cently have I begun to awaken to myself and the needs of others and it shall be these -the others and their needs -which will determine what I will do now. 
Ifyou are a sophomore or a funior with some background in Spanish, and you are interested in more informa'!·r>., 'Jboiit LAPEL, please get i>t t(w, o u•t'th us by Fnday, Sept. 281/•; ynu nay call either the Center for L~J'"'::,·ntial Learning [2788] dur­ing the day or Charlie Kenney [288-2465] after 5:00p.m. 
Susan Barry 
into his arm he becomes "B1g, Bad Benjie -the Style King.'' Gone are thoughts of yesterday and tomorrow; right now he has class. 

The film takes us not only through the ordeals Benjie faces while trying to kick his drug . habit, but also through his struggle to learn about himself and his world. He wants to stand on his own, yet needs to know that someone believes in him. So old ' and experienced in so many ways, he is still young enough to be deeply hurt when he has no one to turn to. He wants to grow up, but still retain the parts of his youth that are good. 
The mo;Jes shown during this week's film series all bring up good questions and problems in many different areas, but almost all bring 
us  back  to  several  fundamental  
questions  which  deal  with  pride,  
self-esteem, and faith.  

Though we may be removed from most of the situations shown to us, we all can apply the themes to our lives at and away from Notre Dame. As we all watch Benjie's struggle, we can Jearn new ways to use our youth and innocence as weapons against our own addictions. 
Goodm~n. harpist, will perform 
PERFORMANCES-·OFF CAMPUS' 
!It Vegetahlt· Fuddie:­
Papa John Creach on Friday, Sept. 21 One of the finest rock violin players and the driving force behind Hot Tuna and the] efferson Starship performs. 
lAmont Cranston on Sat., Sept. 22 This Rhythm and Blues Band from the Twin Cities features a full brass band and the harp playing of Pat Hayes. _ 
Grass, Food and Lodging on Wed., Sept. 26. Down-home, foot-stompin' music from one of Wisconsin's (and my) favorite bluegrass bands. 

The Observer Friday, September 21, 1979-page 18 
by Suzanne Schafer was no marked change in the expected to remain stable at Portugal and Switzerland have 
number of Americans visiting about 2.4 million. also started campaigns to draw (AP) • The weakened dollar, Spain, Portugal or West Ger­A tourist office spokesman tourists. And the British tour­arab summer weather and spir­many, and Italy was swel;lt by said the number of Americans ism spokesman said, "The
American aling costs cut the number of "human waves" of visitors, falied to increase, as it usually United States is still our biggestAmerican tourists ac many pop­many of them cost-conscious has in the past, because of the single market. We're pluggingular European va~..ation spots Americans. weaker dollar, the flight ban on the line that tourists always getthis-year. Some Americans Where it did decline, the drop DC-10 jetliners and "old age." good value in Britain." turned to countries blessed with in U.S. visitors ranged from a Many Americans of German With 40 percent of Italy's
tourists sun and better exchange rates. slight dip in France to a 32 origin used to visit Germany, "people jams" composed of In rt""sponse, several countries percent slump in Switzerland, the spokesman explaines, but Americans and West Germans, havc-launched campaigns to compared to 1978. their numbers are dwindling as Italian tourism officials aren't 
lure back the American visitor, "It's been a tou~h year all they grow older. The agency is complaining. They anticipate aavoid despite his wilted currency. around,'.' said a Bmish Tourist trying to lure younger Ameri­whopping 27 percent this year,
Although final figures for the Authority spokesman. He said cans with special budget travel with visitors expected to leave summer were not available in he expected that the near packages and had begun a about $7 billion in Italy. most cases, estimates from doubling of the British sales tax campaign to encourage busi­Low-cost Czechoslovakia Austria, Britain, Denmark,Fra­to 15 percent, rising fuel and ness trips. which showed a 18 percent
Europe nce, Switzerland, and Yugosla­hotel costs, fickle weather and Holland is so concerned about rise in the number of visitors, via showed fewer American the stronger pound wi!l put declining tourism that it has has begun a campaign to attract visitors than year. Britain's tounsm earrungs proposed an ambitious five­higher-income travellers. 
The American tourist trade below the 3.5 billion of 1978. year plan to double government Basque separatist bomb thre­was not off everywhere. There ''Americans used to find that support for the industry to ats made a shambles of Spain's the United Kingdom was cheap about 25 million annually. The peak tourism season, causing a 
r ------------­
I I FREE PITCHER 
I OF SOFT DRINK 
I Buy any Family Size pizza and get a pitcher of your favorite beverage FREE
I 
with this coupon. Limit one coupon perI pizza ordered. No other 
==·===== offer valid. 
I 
ec.Xp·lres.. ._9_/27/?9.
I 
PiZZA 
PARLOR

I 
r 
Worlb"& grralr&l puz11:
IL------------­SENIOR CLASS MASS 
8:00 ptn Sunday, Septelllber 23 at the Grotto 

compared to the United States, Swiss National Tourist Office 16 percent drop from 1973, but but now we seem to have has gotten about $8 million in the number of Americans visit­caught up with a vengeance, government money to encour­ors held steady Spain's tourist and in some cases, overtaken age tourism. And KLM Royal authority is predicting an up­the states in hotel prices," said Dutch Airlines and Swissair swing for the nauon's top the spokesman. have begun ad campaigns aim­industry through the warm 
Extremely poor weather -cool ed at foreign tourists, particul­autumn months and during the temperatures, cloudiness and arly Americans. Christmas season. an almost constant drizzle ­marred most of the summer in northern Europe. 
ln Holland, temperatures pok­
Committee selects
ed above 77 degrees only f'~ven days this summer, leaving beaches almost empty. Beer and soft drink wholesalers 
Kresse for chairman 
"reported "miser~ble" sales at Bill Kresse, a senior govern­Director Paul Lewis commented camps and beaches, where 
ment major from Evergreen on Kresse's selection by statingreservations were down bet­Park, Illinois has been chosen "While we felt all the candi­ween 5 and 20 percent from last as Chairman of the 1980 Notre dates for Chairman wereyear. · Dame Mock Republican Con­extremely qualified, Bill'sIn Denmark, many tourists cut vention. Selected as Vice-chair­exceptional record of politicalshort their holidays due to men were Andy Bann, a senior involvement and his provenweather, tourist officials said. 
government major from Prince­ability to get along with people Visits by Americans were off 10 ton, Ne.w Jersey, and Ed and orgamze large events, werepercent. 
McNally, a frrst year Notre the qualities that set him apartSwitzerland was one of the few Dame Law Student from from the others.''
European countries to enjoy a Anchorage, Arkansas. Kresse will be .choosing
lot· of sunshine, but its solid The steering committee which chairmen for the conventioncurrency and high prices cut 
selected Kresse was composed committees as soon as possible.
this year's flow of foreign of representatives of student Anyone interested in working. visitors by 16 percent and the 
government, the college Rep­on the convention, which willnumber of Ameri.cans by 32 ublican organization and the take place from March 5-8 nextpercent, according to the Swiss government honor society. year, should contact Kresse atNational Tourist Office. 
Student Government Publicity 8777.
Many countries reported over­all increases in tourism, with visitors from such strong-curr-$ ency countries as Holland, West Germany and Britain apparently making up for the decline in Americans. 
, 
Ausrrian officials. for e-xample. said they hoped to record their best tourist year smce 
1973 with 74 million nightly lodgipgs, despite a 10 percent drop in visits by Americans.
I Swedish hotel and airline offi­cials reported increased book­I ings but could not say whether 
it was an increase in foreign orI Swedish travelers. French and Belgian officials said shorterI vacations seemed to be in vogue, along with efforts to cutI costs shown in a switch to 
camping vacations, and less I expensive meals. 
Tourist officials in Nice, capit­I al of France's famed Gold Coast, said they were having aI very good year, but complained that tourists a.ppeared to beI forsaking better restaurants for 
fast-food emporiums. 'JCiwst Germany will host about 
I 

20 million rourists this yearm
J up about 5 percent over 1978, bur the rare of Americans was 

The Observer Friday, September 21, 1979-page 19 
~ashington Hall 
Concern results in repairs 
by Chris Carrigan 

Due to the combined concern of officials of the Administra­tion and Maintenance Depart­ment, Washington Hall is now under reapir. 
According to Donald Dedrick, director of the Physical Plant, certain sections such as the balcony and the stage of the 98-year old landmark were 
deemed to be unsafe under certain conditions. Dedrick stated that at "peak stress," at a concert for instance, a stand­ing room only crowd would be a potential hazard for all those in attendance. For this reason, the balcony will be undergirded with steel beams. The stage has already been reinforced. 
Other renovations being car­ried out at Washington Hall include improvements to the ventilation and heating sys­tems, and the installation of new office space. 
Although extensive renovation is impossible at this point, at least $60,000 has gone into the building in Ii ttle less than a year. It was estimated by Leo Corbaci, dean of administra­tion, that major renovation, which would me an a massive structural change from wood to steel, could amount to two or three million dollars. Although funds for a major overhaul have been sou~ht, the administration has had httle success in finding a private donor. Until now, eJUstent survey funds have taken care of repair cost. 
No definite completion date 
has been set for the present construction, but it is hoped that work will be completed within 10-15 weeks. Currently, the building is in use 75 percent of the time for movies, and classes. In fact, on Oct. 5, "Hamlet," the first major theatrical production in five years at Notre Dame, will be presented at Washington HaiL 
The hall is still in need of an act curtain, stage curtains, and a grid to support a new and larger movie screen. 
David W ebf'r, building deputy and assistant prcfessor of dra­ma, acknowledges that the building is far from completion. 
"Only a big bandage has been applied to the hall," Weber noted. "Much more work will be needed to preserve this true gem of the 19th century.'' 


FM Progran Director KetJin Gessler, trying 
to spell Gennady RozhdesttJensky. [photo by 
Beth Prezio). 
ND students visit high schools 
by Tim Vercellotti 

One of the most frequent questions asked of newly arriv­ed students is ''what influenced you to come to Notre Da:me?'' Responses vary from "the strong academic reputation" to "I like the colors green and gold,'' but the Office of Admis­sions and student government would like to see more high school seniors make their decis­ion on a more personal basis after talking to Notre Dame students. The Under­graduate Schools Conufiittee is working toward th~ end. 
The committee selects stud­ents as representatives to visit their high schools, where they talk to prospective applicants. 
Tom Kozloski, director of the committee, stressed the fact that this is not a recruiting program. 
·'The selcted students, as representatives of the Univer­sity, are there to give a descrip­tion of campus life from an undergraduate point of view. Topics~such as the admissions process, the Freshman Year of Studies Program, and the var­ious activities are presented." 
Because there is such a wide range of areas to cover, each 
student representative must be 
cautious to have the correct 
facts. This is insured through a 
one-to two-hour training ses­
sion, which is held shortly 
before midterm :, nd Christmas 
breaks. 

] ohn Chaussee, a ophomore 
Arts and Letters major, went 
back to his high school to talk to 
students interested in Notre 
Dame. He described the train­
ing session as a two-hour 
pro~ram where statistics and 
advtce were presented. 
"We were told to talk of the 
admissions process, and of 
general facts concerning Notre 
Dame. The important thing 
was to give all of this informa­
tion from a student's point of 
view, and to be yourself.'' • 
One of the students present at 
Chaussee's talk eventually de­
cided to come to Notre Dame. 
She described the presentati041 
as very informative, and more 
like a get-together than a 
forma1 program. 

''John talked of the chances of betng accepted, and the rigor­ous curriculum. Also, he told us ·about campus life; things -like .parties, An Tostal, and 
those famous chemistry quiz­
zes," the student recalled. 
''What impressed me the most 
was his enthusiasm for Notre Dame. ] ohn told us more about Notre Dame than a catalogue could.'' 
This year is i:he second year for the U_ndergraduate Commit­tee. According to Kozloski, it is difficult to estimate the success of such a young program. 
''After this year it will be easier to tell whether or not the committee is successfuL The program does, however. have a tremendous potential if we get good people.'' 
All interested students are encouraged to pick up applica­tion at the Office of Admis­sions, 413 Flanner Hall, or 204 Lyons HaJJ. 
Hundreds 
pled!(e 
meals 

A total of 1255 students pledg-' ed their W edPiesday lunches tn last week's pledge drive by The World Hunger Coalition. The Hunger Coalition wishes to thank all who helped in the drive and all who signed up. The fast begins September 26. 
WITH REGRETS!'! Due to construction and other conflicts in Washlngton Hall, we regret to announce the cancellation of the Thursday night Ftlm Series. Season Ticket Holders will be refunded fully By presenting their tickets to the Educational Medla Office Educational Speech & Drama Dept. Media Services  l  

****************+ 
BRIDGET'S 
********+********
HAS SOmE UPCOmiNG DEALS YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT••••• 
25' drafts from

evety mon-Thuts: 
9:30-10:30, 

THIS THURSDAY: 
·t*************t******** 
t-ree Drawing tor 2 Purdue tickets! Friday: 11 :30-12:30.25¢ drafts Saturday· 25 dr.,Hs & 
• 50' ¢ miv"d drinks 
DURING THF GAME TROUNCE PURDUE PARTY 
~----------~-------­

I I I 
~~l"::~~fll ---------~ tl!) CFNTER i Mishawaka, I 
219i255-~~2--1 1 
~=~~===I 
l\1 an~ket Silk~t •t:'ens :
·========•I 
I 
S7.99-S19.99 : 
---' I
$2.00 Off With :' This Coupon ! 
See Our: lI directors chairs I
I 
butterfly (:hairs I lamps I infinity mirrors i 

__:~~~=-~~~~:.s__~:~~~~~--=~::~:~:____1 
Milano's Pizza 
815 W. McKinley Mishawaka 
10% OFF on ALL Pizza to 
! 

NO/SMC Students and Faculty this weekend. (Fri, Sat, Sunday) 
We Deliver Call 256~ 1853 

Sun thru Thurs 4-11 Fri & Sat 4-lpm Closed Mondays Offer Good Fri, Sat, and Aug 31 to Sept 2nd r;~~-::J'-' 

The Observer fcriday, September 21, 1979 -page 20 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Cooler, from the hot, breezy conditions damper weather settled over earlier in the week. Despite the much of California Thursday, change and the forecast for aiding firefishters in their continued cooling, a strict ban
Weather struggle agamst at least 16 on burning in state and federal major blazes that have laid forest land remained in effect. waste to more than 100,000 Vice President Walter Mon­acres of brush and timber. dale planned to visit some Los Since Saturday, fires fanned Angeles basin fire areas later in
aids 
by erratic winds also have the day, according to Los wrecked at least 51 homes, Angeles County Supervisor running damage and firefight­Kenneth Hahn. ing cost into the millions of The Eagle Canyon fire, which
firefighters dollars. destroyed si.J> homes 100 miles · ·'The weather is cooperat­northwest of Los Angeles, was mg, U. S. Forest Service 30 percent contained on Thurs­spokesman Steve Warren said day, thanks to calm, damp air Thursday, noting the change and'low temperatures. 

Nezp,hborhodd Study Help Program held an ui.sw.M<...twna. meeting last night. [Photo by Beth PrezioJ. 
r----------------, NSHP aids 
1 What cal) you do with 1boat people, 
I . ~ ? I 
1 a Liberal Arts Degree . 1 migrants
I -I
•. "· · 1 The Neighborhood Study Help 
I Denise Cavanaugh can tell you.. Pro~ra~ has started a new 
proJect In an effort to serve the needs of 400 boat people nowI I residing in the South BendI C0 IIege t0 career days at I area. The children speak very 
little English aqd are beingI I placed jn South Bend areaI SMC Sunday, September 23 I schools, so students interested-
in helpins the children with 
• I their studies are needed. 
A bilingual program for tutor-I I in~ migrant children whose
I a:00 Carroll Hall 1 pnmary language is Spanish is 
L 
..1 
also being organized. I I For further information on both programs, contact Joe 
----------------Witchger at 7102. 
SENIORS 
Applications now being accepted for the position of 
Senior Arts Festival Olairman 

The cool, humid conditions also kept a 20,000-acre fire near Ventura, about 50 miles north­west ofLos Angeles, "SITTING STILL•" Warren siad. 
The largest of the recent blazes, the 32,000-acre Sage fire in the Los Angeles National Forest, was 75 percent contain­ed. Forest Service spokesman Lee Redding said the .cost of' that fire alone would be more than $2.6 million. 
But southeast of San Diego, more than 300 firefighters some from as far away as Kentucky ­remained on the line around a 6,000-acre brush fire two miles from the Mexican border at Oray Mesa. 
That blaze was out of control but was SJ?reading slowly, Jim Dykes, chief of the San Diego Ranger unit of the California Department of Forestry, said crews established lines around 10 miles of the fire's 15-mile perimeter. Bombers dropped fire retardants. · 
For a time, the flames threat­ened a mobile home park and burned telephone lines, but shifting winds turned the blaze away, Dvkes said. 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
'}J)/19

Main Bulldlnc 
JOI IlfTDVl!WS JJ1.E OPIDI TO SEJIIlOKS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS IN TilE OECEMBER, MAY AND 
AUGUST CLASSES .•......ANT WO INTEND TO HAVE INTERVIEWS MUST HAVJ! A COMPLETED PROFlLE (UGISTRATION) JOKM Olf PILl AT THE Pl..ACEHENT IURUU •..•••.. RECISrRATION, INTERVIEW 
SIGN-UP SHt.:t'S A11D EMPLOYER L!TDATURE ARE IN Roc:»t 213, ADMINISTllATION IUILDINC. 
00MPL1T1 JKPLOYU 8PioCirlCATIOIIS Otl DIGUP.S, MAJOJ.S, JO!I TITU.S, LOCATIONS AND CITIZ!MSHIP AU CIYIII IN TH! PLACEM!lfT Hi.NUAL, EXCEPT POR 'MlOSE D[f"LO'YER.S ADDED SINCE THE PRINTING OF 
THI MAIIIJAL . THE SlGli-UP PP.ll.lOD IS Fii.<WI 8:1)0 A.H. TO 5:00 P.H., lt)NDAY THROUCU 111\JRSDAY, BEGINNING SEFTEMBER 24 FOR lHT!ItVUWS SCilEDUL!D fOR THE W!EK OP OCTORER 1. PLUS! IIOtE INTU.VIEW LOCATIONS AT TIME 01 SIGtH,JP · IOU )IJST SIGH P'OR 10\1& INT!IVlBWS PERSOHALLY. 







Dolft fAJ.M .. 
ICUI ... 

Oct. 1 
;;;;;;:-­
C&l&otl Corporation 
PhD i.J:I, ChE and Chea. 
X 
X 

CcaDOnVealth Inaurance COUipany 
All BIA. 
J. 
X 

Dreaeer Atlu. Dresaer lnduatrii'B, Inc 
I in IE, KE, Physics. 
McDonald 1 & Corporation 
Caacellad. 

M.l. T.-Lincoln Laboratory KD in !It, ME, Met, Appl. Phyaica, H.ath, Co.p Set. 
X 
1 

Nati0'1181 Steel Corporation 
Bin Acct, HE, U, HEIO, Met, Ch.E. 
X 
X 

lbclnN:ll International .C..celUd. 
"<!_,_ill iiDDlTuH. 
Put, Harwick, Kitchell' Co 
B in Acct. MBA with ir.cct bJtard or conctrn. 
Oet. l Tuea. 
Di.&.ital Equ1~t CorDOration (LSI Seaiconductor Gro!!P_)' 1M in El. and hydca, 
I 
l 

Oct. 2 
;:;;;,­
lll1no1B Depart.ent of Tranaportatloa 
R in CE. 

K-Kart Corporation 
B ln l:con, l'ayc:.h, Soc, Ensl• All B'BA. 
X 
X 

Kuhl..n 'corporation 
B in El. 

Hhaouri Pactf lc Ratlro.ad C011p•ny 
B in ME, CE, HElO. 
NCR Corpontton 
B in Mitt. 

.are ca.putar cour•ea. 
Oct. 3 w.d, 
Elaory University. Graduate School of luaineaa 
I in all diaciplinaa. 
I 
X X 
'x 

Federal Hiahway Adainiatration 
B in Cl. 
Gantoa, Inc. 

I l\'1 Lib. Arts. Ul UA. 
X 
I 
bllou cc.eaui 

B in HI and Hl.lO. 
~orth...a lllinoia Gu 
,I in Cl, Kl, Chi. 
Procter' ~la eo.pany. Sal.. "--'..-nt • Ch.aa.aed fro. Mcrv. 7. Wote ~1•1 I 1A all 4UdplU..a. 
I 
I ~ 
I 

ltiA. . 
u. s: Oypata Co!pan! B ln Cbl.1 El, Cl, MI. 
~... 
1 

·~ 
..0 in Li~ Aorta 1 • ID.ar, Sd . 11A and KIA· 
1 

Em.at ' Whinnex ~-!• ~c:ct, -_ vitb. Acct ~Qrd or ooactn. Oct. 4 
Atlaatic Ucbfhld Co!pADI 
I ill D, tm. IIIia ~. 
n;w:a.­
1 

llue CToaa ' llue Shield. 
1. •altb beu.r&DCe. 2. 1 in l.cc:t. 3. PrO'Yi.IN:r A.I.Nittora. 4. hwlt.aaapolia, u. !1. Pel'll..... ,iaa. 
lguttabb Lih .t.a.urance Sod.etY of •-lork 
I 1a all 4iadpl1Dea. 
I-S7at-ECI Diviaioa
I
1 

• taD, •· •to. 
Cloros Co!pan 
I 1a Acct .• 

~. 
Pfla.r~ lDC .. ill Cbl. 

Oct. s Atchiaoa.l Topeka aDd Santa Pe l.aJ.lvay Co51aay 
ft 1A C.!. 

rrt:-­
• O.troit BaDit ' Truat
I 

B 1D leoa. .Ul au..
,. 
lavirot.a:nt•l Protectioa Aa,enct 
B in all JD.ar diaclplinea. 
lnaurance Service& Office 
1M in lllltb. 

l.aat Ketal& Corporattoo 
Ill 1A a:, •• Kat. 
. 
r ' 1 La&ar~ Co!p!Dy 
..... )IIA. 

Jo-pb T. lrer.ao ' SOli. lac 
I 1t1 all 4iadpl1nea. I&A. 
1 X 

WI SCIIOOLB 
1ndima Unbaulty Oct I 1 
C&thollc Untv. of .._.rica Oct. ' I X I ); 

The Observer Friday, September 21, 1979-page 21 


Thai leader seeks aid for Cambodia 
BANGKIK, Thailand (AP) ­Prime Minister Driangsak Cho­manan said yesterday neigh­boring Cambodia was bemg ravaged by "massive starva­tion, disease and death" and that the international commun­ity would be committin~ a "cold-blooded murder" if It did not step up its aid efforts. Kfiangsak attacked what he termed the slow response of foreign donors to Cambodia's flight and said his country was offering itself as a stagi~g area for Cambodia-bound a1d -as long as relief supplies did not fall into the hands of the two warring sides in that country. 
In an exclusive interview with the Associated Press, the 61­year-old leader also called on the world's major powers to ''take their hands off the reg­ion " and leave it in peace. 
Kriangsak, a retired career officer, downplayed fears by some in Southeast Asia that Vietnamese forces in Cambodia 
might strike into Thailand while trying to wipe out forces of ousted Premier Pol. Pot. Cambodians to Pol. Pot., 
'~All My Men 
............. 

2000 Words-a-minute" 
who ·was ousted from Phnom Penh last Jan. 7, are now in sanctuaries along the Thai­Cambodian frontier fighting forces loyal to new Premier Heng Samrin. 
''The competition between the major powers, their attempts to save face, is the primary danger facing the region," he said. ''The jam or powers are not willing to fight each ot~er. so they are using intermed~anes~ smaller nations, as proxieS to fight their battles at a distance. 
''If the major powers take their hands off the region we will run out of ammunition and funds. We'll just have to stop fighting." 
Kribngsak said widespread famine as well as malaria and other diseases were taking mas­sive tolls on both sides in Cambodia, adding, "if the world does not help to solve this problem it is tantamount to the world committing cold-blooded murder." 
"I have been speaking about 
this every day for six months. I 
have said that if nob,ody dares to act I will take action by myself. I will allow Thailand to b-ecome a staging area for the sending of food supplies to the 
people of Cambodia who are dying evey day," Kriangsaksiad. 
Thailand, anxious to keep a 
-neutral stand, has allowed some aid to cross its frontier to both sides in the war and permitted four aircraft sent by UNICEF and the International 
• • . Herrmann 
[continued from page 24 ) 
"We haven't played an emo­tional game yet,'' admits senior l1nebacker Kevin Motts. "Now that we've lost, we know what it feels like and we don't like it. 
We have the people; we just have to be emotional.'' 
For Purdue's All-American candidate at defensive end, Keena Turner, getting up for the Irish is easy. "We 
Read 
Committee of the Red Cross to stop in Bangkok enroute to deliver aid to Phnom Penh. 
But massive aid shipments­which many analysts here agree are vital -have yet to begin, UNICEF and ICRC are current­ly negotiating with the Phnom Penh government about such a program. The Thais are discus­sing the problem with foreign donors here. 
haven't beaten them since I've been at Purdue," Turner com­ments. "I want to beat them before I leave. I thought the uefense played well last year, 
but we still lost. We'll have to play even better this year.'' 
Motts and Turner are two of the main ingredients of Pur­due's "] unk Defense," so named because of the great variety of defensive formations 
use. 

' 
•t
~ 
c 
-I._ 
Io •
tD zo ,.
mZ 
o:n 
--1 
::t 
z~ 
o­
_(') 
)> :t •ZC) 
)> J> 
z 
~ 
a> 
a> 
0 

Take a Free SPEED Reading Lesson 
I 

LAST DAY! HURRY Lessons at 1:30, 3:30, 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS
[j]. and 7-:30 
Make reading work for you! 
Rootn C-127 A.C.C. 
The Observer -SportsBoard :Friday , September 21, 1979-page 22 
Molarity 

Pigeons 
l LO\lE. '1\.\E. ~'l b~ LMU> 11-.l­'WAn:..£.1 

The Daily Crossword 

./ezoelers ~incr 1917 
Spcci.t l 1So/o l)iscount on ALL :\len:h,u1disc to l'ntn.> Dame and Saint l\lary's Students. 
---·--------­T:mn and (':nantr\', Concord und L'ni\-cr-,it\· Park \lall Opl'll Daih 10-9 
FUN 'n' GAMES
r-----------------I 
I  AMUSEMENT CENTER  I  
~  UNIVERSITY PARK MALL  ~  
:r  announces  bl  
~·  -------------------­ '"'0  
8  MOONLIGHT MADNESS  ·~  
~  ~  
g,_  Open till 11 pm tonight  §  

-good for ONE FREE GAME anytime with. 
by Michael Molinelli 

ACROSS  26  Curve in  
1  Expressing  the road  
a purpose  27  Saucer in  
6  Special  space  
offering  28  Of bees  
10  Article  29  Elbow room  
13  Chemical  31  Bring from  
compound  abroad  
14  Graceful  32  Feels  
persons  gleeful  
15  Outfit  35  Gas meas­ 
16  Conifers  urement  
17  Fragrance  36  Old-woman­ 
18  In the past  ish  
19  Extremely  37  Lisi of  
satisfied  films  
22  Camera part  38 John or  
23  Pilots a  Jane  
plane  39  High priest  
24  "Look-"  42  Guinness  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 




43 Witch-burn· 20 Obliterate ing city 21 Serving 
46 Verve dish: var. 47 Very joyful 25 Common 50 -and outs suffix 51 Courage 27 " .. to go­
52 Separately swing" 53 Expert 28 Spacious 54 Elysian 29 Check the 
places flow 55 Forty-niner 30 Guido's 56 My: Fr. high note 57 Black, Red 31 Peculiari­
and others ties of 58 Prophets speech 32 Eskimo 
DOWN thickness 1 Tumble tester 2 Banishes 33 Emphasizes 3 Bedding 34 Makes 4 Beliefs beloved 5 Tax, In 35 Eggs 
England 39 Tennyson 6 Caravan heroine 
stop 40 Pantry 7 Rebelled 41 Printer's 8 Walks• machines 
unevenly 43 Certain 9 He sold his card birthright 44 Cop­
10 Remedy for 45 French city back prob-46 Name for I ems a cow 
11 Bright 48 Sts. student's 49 Dutch reward measures · 
12 Self-esteem 50 "-the very 14 Fastener model.." 
JKniglfta of C!tnlumblUi 
~~=­
#·oJfP; 
0
<:w 
&bits nf <ttnlumblUi 
invite all members to a 
PlJRDUE SMOKER 
Saturday Sept. 22 12 :30pm K of C Hall Watch the game on our new 
BIG SCREEN T·V· 
Hamburgers 

for all -members 
Baseball 
NaUo1111 L.ugue
.... 
W l Pet. GB 

Montreal 91 59 .607 Pittsburgh 91 60 .603 St. Louis 80 71 .530 · Philadelphia 80 73 .523 Chicago n 75 .'YJ7 New York 56 95 .371 

West 

Cincinnati 87 66 .569 Houston 84 68 .553 2Y2 Los Angeles 75 78 .490 12 San Francisco 68 86 .442 19112 San Diego 63 90 .412 24 Atlanta 60 91 .397 26 
Thursday's Gam11 Philadelphia 2, Pittsburgh 1 Montreal 6-2, New York 3 il St. Louis 2, Chicago 1 Houston 7. Atlanta 1 Cincinnati 8, San Diego 5 Los Angeles 3, San Francisco 0 
Friday's Gam11 Pittsburgh (Robinson 8-6) at Chicago (Kru­kow ~9 or McGlothen 11-13) Montreal (Palmer 9-2) at Philadelphia (Carl­ton 16-11), n St. Louis (Denny 7·11) at New York (Falcone 6-13), n Cincinnati (seaver 15-6) at Houston (Richard 16-13), n Los Angeles (Hannahs Q-0) at San Diego (Eichelberger G-1), n 
American League East 

w l Pet. GB Baltimore 99 52 .656 Milwaukee 90 62 .592 9% Boston 85 66 .563 14 Detroit 82 71 .536 18 New York 81 70 .536 18 Cleveland 77 75 .507 22112 Toronto 51 102 .333 49 
West California 83 70 .542 ­Kansas City 80 73 .523 3 Minnesota 79 74 .516 4 Texas 77 76 .503 6 Chicago 67 84 .444 15 Seattle 63 90 .412 20 Oakland 52 101 .340 31 
Thursday's Games Detroit (Rozema 4-3) at Boston (Tudor G-2), n Cleveland (Barker 6-5) at Baltimore (Palmer 9-6), n New York (Guidry 17-7) at Toronto (Under­wood 8-15), n Minnesota (Koosman 18·13) at Milwaukee (Haas 11·9), n Texas (Medich ~7) at California (Tanana 6-5), n Kansas City (Splittorff 13-17) at Oakland (Langford 12-14), n Chicago (Trout ~8) at Seattle (Parrott 13-11), n 
... Umps 

[continued from }!.age 24] 
money. 
The umpires struck early this season and Phillips said that as part of the settlement which ended the strike, the leagues agreed to ~rovide the union wtth evaluattons of the umpires which are routinely made by supervisors, managers and general managers. "We have not received those evalua­tions," Phillips said. 
NDWOMEN RALLY for 1st Annual 

Fruit of the Loom RAID 
Tues. Sept. 25 

Meet between BP and Farley at 8 : 00 pm 
-------·­



. 

Friday, September 21, 1979-page 24
S:Qorts 
Herrmann tries to add ND to personal record book 
son favorites to win the Big Ten 
by Mark Perry 

title.
Sports Editor 

Offensively the Boilermakers 
Purdue quarterpack Mark look very strong, returning the Herrmann has done some pret­whole starting lineup that de­ty amazing things in a little over feated Georgia Tech in the two years of collegiate action. Peach Bowl last December. Already the talented junior They have already averaged holds several Purdue records, over 394 yards in their ftrst two and should become the greacest games, 268 via the pass. passer in Boilermaker history. Leading the Purdue attack is One thing he hasn't been able Herrmann, who ranks behind to do is beat Notre Dame. former Purdue player Mike 
Herrmann will get another. Phipps and Michigan State's shot at the Irish this Saturday, Ed Smith on the Big Ten career as NO travels to West Lafayette passing list. In two games he to face the Boilermakers begin­has completed 34 of 50 passes ning at 1:30 EST at Ross-Ade for 482 yards and 6 touch Stadium. The game is being downs, four against Wisconsin broadcast locally on WNDU-TV in Purdue's opening win. (Channel 16). Aiding Herrmann m his pur­
''Notre Dame always has suit of career records are a super personnel,'' Herrmann raleored corps of receivers. commented. "We have come Split end Raymond Smirh has so close. the past two years, but caught 12 passes in two games, we've seemed to either run out mdudmg two touchdowns, and of gas or lose our poise both tight end Dave Yonng leads times, while they just seem to Purdue in scoring with four keep their cool." touchdown catches among his 
The Irish were far from cool nine receptions. Flanker Mike 
after the ftrst half of the 1977 Young has seven catches, one Notre Dame-Purdue game, as for a score, giving Herrmann Herrmann, playing his third yet another target to throw to. 
college game, completed 15 of The running attack of the 24 passes for 254 yards and Boilers was also supposed to be three touch downs to give solid this year, but so far it (AP) -Iusc whc:n you thought Lee's decision to go public in morning," he said. "It makes Purdue a 24-14 lead. Enter Joe hasn't materialized. Tailback 1-.'l<=Ph<~fl h~rl achieved labor hi> free-speech crusade against me impervious to bus fumes Montana for the Irish; and a Wally Jones' is the leading pc:ace in our time, che truce I<uhn violated one of the com­when I run. I bake it and the toughened Irish defense, and rusher thus far, with 115 yards
Notre Dame grabbed its ftrst
blew apart Thursday. n..issioner's orders when the · THC (the weed's extract} soaks on 25 carries for a 4.6 yard !Yiurm eat pucher Bill Lee, two collided over the marijuana oufand blends with the organic big comeback on the way to the average. Overall the Boilers always the champion of indi­issue last spring. "Bowie Kuhn substance of the wheat." national championship. have managed only 3. 1 yards vidual rights, has escalated his suggested I not discuss mari­Lee thought the commissioner "I think we're-experienced per carry, so it will be up to the free-speech crusade against juana again," · Lee said. had over-reacted in his case. enough not to let that happen Purdue line to open up some 
again," Herrmann adds. "The
Commissioner Bowie Kuhn. "Bowie Kuhn was totally off "I didn't advocate its use,'' holes and take some pressure The commissioner occasion­base and can't comment on my said Lee. "As long as I'm UCLA game will make us work off Herrmann. ally has been accused of pun­right to say things on this mortal and I live and die on this harder this week and be ready Defensively the Boilermakers 
to play."·
ishing members of the baseball planet." planet, I'm entitled to die as·I have been having their prob­community who suffer from see ftt. He (Kuhn} said what I The Boilers lost that game to lems. UCLA scored 21 points in 
The $250 ftne (actually he
loose lips. Last spring, he ftned did was not good for baseball. the Bruins 31-21, as Herrmann the e;uly going of last Satur­
went Kuhn one better by pay­
Lee $250 and last month he I say that's not true. He said it was forced out of the ~arne day's contest, and junior tail­
ing $251 to an Eskimo mission
fin.-cf San Diego owner Ray was wrong. I say what's wrong because of heat ·exhaustion. back Freeman McNeil ran the
in Canada} is weaving i~s way
Kroc $ll'1,00u, both e;;sentially is having Steve Garvey doing P~due is hopeful that the Boilers ragged, speeding for
through baseball's grievance contest against Notre Dame will 
tor. Sfe:l~ ing out of turn. ads for Coca-cola which has the 174 yards.
structure with a hearing ex­
Lee s crunt was the public dis­pected in November. Mean­carcinogen sugar in it and ts get them back on the right [continued on page 21 ]closure that he had used mari­detrimcnral rollcaltb " track when they were presea-·
while, the commissioner chosejuana. Kroc, who never has to maintain a low proftle on theadmitted using anything more 
issue. A.l?ainst Purdue
dangerous than hamburgers, "If it is filed as a grievance by got hit for mentioning the the Players Association, innames of Graig Nettles and Joe an 
Zettek s~ys ND won't let down
Morgan in the same sentence time It will come before 
arbitrator and it would hewith his Padres. 
inappropriate for Bill or myself Just when you thought it wasAnd just in case you were to comment," Kuhn said.
going to dismiss this as one of safe to forget about UCLA... 
Lee's occasional flights of Lee didn't think it inappropri­David Greenwood, Roy Hamil­fancy, he made his latest attack ate though. ton and Brad Holland are all on the commissioner flanked by The left-bander with the gone. Larry Brown (a North attorneys at the Manhattan somewhat southpawish view of Carolina graduate, for God's offices of the American Civil the world, origmally tweaked sake) is the head coach. Notre Liberties Union. The ACLU the commissioner's sensibilities Dame fans can fmally sleep Zettek. "We're well aw:ue of healed, everything would be will join the MaJor League when he discolsed how he easy. how talented they are. " fine. I never thought it would Players Association in repre­"used" marijuana. And then the UCLA football And how mad they'll be. happen again.'' senting Lee in the case, giving "I sprinkle it on my organic team goes and beats Purdue. "Yeah, I was hoping that After. it did hapren again, the: piccbcr some legal riQut buckwheat pancakes in the Worse yet, the Bruins didn't they'd be undefeated and we'd Zertek wasn't at al sure what sneak past the Boilermakers on be undefeated, because it he thought. a trick play or a last-second would make the game a little bit "The second time, I was reallyfield goal. They embarrassed bigger," says Zettek. "But disillusioned: I didn't know if
NL umps file charges 
the Boilers. And who has to beating us would erase every­I'd be able to come back, and face the music? Notre Dame, of thing for them.'' even if I could, I wasn't reallyNEW YORK (AP) -The: Major league which interferes 'Nith course. Somewhere, Gary Cun-Zettek has battled back from . sure ifI wanted to play again."
League Umpires · Association and restrains its members with ningham is laughing. knee surgery to become an Zertek, of course, did give itfiled unfair labor practice regard to chose rights as guar­All the amateur psychologists elder statesman on the youthful a,nother shot, and he credits his charges against the National anteed in the National Labor are-already predicting a Purdue Irish defensive squad. father with helping him withLeague with the National Labor Relations Act, and which, as a romp --it's only logical. The "The fact that I'm an upper­the decision.
Relations Board in Philadelphia byproduct, fans the flames of Boilermakers are sure to have classman means that the fresh­
Thursday. dtscord that presently exists "My father played football,
blood in their eyes after last men and sophomores naturally 
Richie Phillips, counsel for the among professional umpires," and he encour'!ged me to play if 
week's ftasco in Los Angeles, look up to me,'' he says. ''But I
umpires association, met wirh Phillips said in a telephone I wanted to, but he left the
and the Irish, well, they can't haven't been in this posicion
NLRB representatives for six interview with the Associated decision up to me." 
possibly maintain their emo-very long, and I'm not sure how
hours and charged the NL wich Press. "So right now, I'll just rake it
tiona! high for another week. to respond. 1 guess th;lt's only 
five separate counts of discrim­Specifically, the umpires week by week,'' Zettc:k says.
Wrong again, tea-leaf breath. 
ination against the union um­association charged discrimina­natural", though.'' "As long as· I can enjoy the
Nobod could be foolish e There was a gr.eat deal of
pires, who staged a seven-week tion in the areas of guaranteed game, I'll be .able to overcome
nough ·to argue with a 6-5, doubt as to whether Zertek
strike against major league salaries, advancement· op­the adversity.''
235-pounder who's had surgery would ever make it to the rankbaseball at the start of the portunities for minor league on both knees, and still eats of elder statesman. Unfortunately for Purdue, ifcurrent season. umpires who honored the B.). Dickey for breakfast. "The ftrst injury dido' t really this week is like last week, the''The Major League Umpires · strike' vacation time' umpire "We won't have an emotional alarm me," Zettek remembers. Boilers may ftnd themselvesAssociation ca:J no longer toler­evaluations, and expense letdown against Purdue," pro-"I figured that it was just a looking at the .500 mark fromate behavior on the part of the 
mise~ Notre Dam~ tl!s_!<.lc:§£2!! _.fr~!l.k...!hl!!&. ~fl.g _thet a,fr~r it. the ~~E.K~nd, 
·.u:·•'~>:.• !lt.:"\.fliiiiW,_·,i:.-~~·'.'No'IY ~.l-'\fio .• ·-....•.· -:.J.;.• :".,r._.. .:.•,':':"'I:;:.~,;'Lf·...:,·~~ .......,f ;.· .··: ..1.:; •:t~~~~t~"":~:~~:...,,. .~J..~~ior. A8f<:.'.!~ ~ _ ... _ ....:,...:;:...:... ..::.J·.r.... :.........t..~~··· .~ ................ 









