------------------~--~----------------------------------------------------------­
• , , , Vi: the Huddle Heroine -page 11 

VOL. XIII, NO. 85 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1979 
Food sales encounter operation dilemmas 
Editor's note: This is the final cording to Joe Sherer, one of the segment in a three-part series. three partners in the manage­dealing with campus food sales. ment group. Today 's article deals with some Grace, which employs about 17 ofthe problems which operator's non-supervi3ory personnel, splits face. .its profits with the hall, with 60 
pe~c~~t going to the dorm for hall activities. 
by john McGrath Sherer explained that his man­Senior StaffReporter agement group utilizes two pay scales. ''The guys who work Although they are usually from 6 to 12 get two dollars an taken for granted, campus food hour, and the cooks who work sales operations require much from around 10:30 to midnight the same attention and responsi-get three dollars,' ' he explained. . bility of larg:r companies--and Morrissey Hall, which made encounter many of the same $1400 last semester after paying problems. its rental fee, employs eight 
Most food sales are ..-small workers at $2. 20 .an hour, while operations, with an average of Dillon Food Sales Manager John two to five employees and a Peak, who made over $1000 last semester's income of approxi­semester after paying his rent, mately $500 or $600. However, pays $2.75 an hour to his 10 some of the larger operations employees. employ over 20 people and take Keenan's food sales, known as in thousands of dollars each ''Zaland,'' pays its 13 employees semester. six dollars a night, in addition to 
Some of the biggest problems one pizza to be split up amongthe that food sales operations incur .usual. three-man crew and one are employee relations, theft, soda for each worker. 
Judge denies Ford's appeal 
competition, and supply difficul­At some outlets, thefts are ties. cutting into the profits. Sorin Flanner Food Sales is one of Food Sales manager Nick Zagotta Elkhart, Ind. (AP)-An Indiana case, could come to trial made between 1971 and 1976 that on
the biggest outlets campus reports that his operation has -judge refused yesterday to allow After ) ones issued his ruling Ford announced in June were 
with a staff of25 employees. The been experiencing problems for 
a pre-trial appeal of Ford Motor on the pre-trial a,Ppeal, Ford being recalled because of govern­manager and employees are on the last three months. Co.'s indictment on criminal waived formal arrrugnment and ment tests showing the fuel tanks 
fixed salaries with Tony Roberts "It (thefts) hurt us to the tune 
charges stemming from a fiery, pleaded innocent to the three leaked large amounts of fuel in receiving $45 each week. His of $100 since Christmas, but triple-fatality Pinto automobile counts of reckless homicide. moderate-speed crashes. The workers get $2.25 an hour. we've solved the problems by crash. Ford attorney Richard Steine­modification had yet to be mailed 
Grace Food Sales appears to be putting new padlocks on the The decision by Elkhart brown also srud he will file a when the Indiana accident the profit leader among campus doors," Zagotta said. Superior Court Judge Donald W. motion within the next 10 days to happened.operations, however. Grace re­He expfamed that some stud­Jones means the case, represen­move the trial out of Elkhart Jones earlier this month de­ported a net profit of approxi­dents had eotten a pass key and ting the first criminal action County because of what he called nied a Ford motion to dismiss the mately ~3200 last semester, ac-[pontinued on page 16] against an automaker in a defects enormous. publicity about the charges. 
case. The trail still would be held The Judge's apJ.>roval for re­in Indiana, possibly in a county view of that decision by theFrom· chaotic Iran adjoining Elkhart. ' Indiana Court of Appeals was . 
The indict-needed because such appeals are ment, returned by a s·uperior normally filed after the trial. court Grand jury last.September, Ford argued that it could suffer


US readies for massive airlift 
charged the automaker with reck­severe and irreparable damage to briefly held 102 Americans hostage. lessly designing the Pinto its reputation if the case went toTEHRAN, Iran [AP) -The United States readied The Khomeini camp, whose fighters rescued the fuel tanks. It stemmed from the trial and the indict­helicopters and big jets yesterday for a massive Americans, identified the attackers as communists Aug. 10 deaths of three teen-age ment later was determined to beairlift of thousands of Americans from Iran, where and rightists trying to discredit the new regime. women when their 1973 Pinto invalid.
anti-Americani'sm is running high and the anti­

shah revolutionary alliance is into Some of the guerrillas described themselves as Sedan exploded in flames after At a five-minute hearing yes­
splintering 

hostile factions. communists. being hit from behind by a van terday, Jones said he was deny-­There are believed to be 7,000 Americans left in that police said was traveling 50 ing an appeal at this stage
Bloody fighting raged for the third straight day Iran down from a peak of about 45,000 one year

in the northwest city of Tabriz, where hundreds .MPH on a Northern Indiana because it conceivable could be 
ago.' U.S. officials hope to reduce the number to highway. carried all the way to the U.S.
were reported killed. Unconfirmed reports said about 2,000 with the evacuation. The car was among 1. 5 million Supreme Court, delaying the trial rebels seeking local autonomy were battling forces Those expected to remain include skeletal staffs Pinto and Mercury Bobcat sedans for up to two years.

of the provisional government of Ayatollah at the embassy and at some corporate headquar­Ruhollah Khomeini. 

ters, about 100 American journalists and manyIn Tehran, Marxist gunmen attacked an apart· Americans married to Iranians.
ment building where they said agents of SAVAK, 
Carnival attendance up;

Nehdi Bazargan, prime minister ofthe Khomeini the shah's secret service were holding out. These government, directed that evacuees be ~iven safe"urban guerrillas" have rejected Khomeini's call passage to Tehran's Nehrabad Internanonal Air­
to tum in their arms, distributed or stolen during port and sufficient guards for the movement of revenues down $1000 last weekend's bloody climax to the year-long 
1,000 persons a day. by]ohn Calcutt of chance will open tonight at 6
anti-shah campaign. 

Turkey gave permission to the United States to Executive Editor p.m. and close at 2 a.m. TheSome radicals have denounced the makeup of send five big helicopters and six C-130 transport doors will open tomorrow, thethe 5-day-old government as not sufficiently leftist. 
planes to an air base at Incirlik, southren Turkey, last day of Mardi Gras, at 2 p.m. 
As the 78-year-old Moslem holy man Khomeini for possible use in the evacuation. Two other U.S. While Mardi Gras attendance and close at 2 a.m.

struggled to restore law and order in Iran, the transports were standing by in Athens, Greece. has' increased so far this year, At midnight on Saturday, Frmonarch he forced out of the country, Shah 

But U.S. officials in Washington said these carnival revenues have lagged Theodore Hesburgh, Notre Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, moved from one guest would be used only in an emergency. The behind last year's totals by Dame's president, will draw two house in Morocco to another, a possible sign he is evacuation will begin Saturday with at least two $1000, according to John Me raffle tickets · to determine the 
ready for a long stay abroad. chartered Pan American World Airways jetliners Austin, 1979 Mardi Gras Chair­winners of the 1979 Oldsmobile 
"We cannont protect American lives in Iran," that each can carry about 400 people, State man. Curless Supreme (grand prize)said the U.S. Embassy's announcement of the Department spokesman Hodding Carter said. ' 'Attendance is up this year,'' and the 1979 Olds Starflre SX evacuation. ''You are allowed one suitcase per Khomeini guerrillas invaded the Moroccan McAustin commented, ''but our (seller's prize). 
person. Evacuation planes will begin flying Embassy and searched the residence of Ambas­revenues are a little down this Raffle chairman Rosemary Ser­February 17. '' sador El Ghali Benhima, looking for SAVAK year. So we're hopin~ for a big pent commented, "We've raised The announcement came one day after scores of agents. Benhima said none was found and no one turnout this weekend. ' close to $18,000 this year, and guerrillas stormed the embassy compund and wac:; hurt. Notre Dame's winter carnival 
[continued on page 16] 



, 

News in brief 
Friday, February 16, 1979 -page 2 
US~ Taiwan~ relations to continue
, Angry , Carter orders report through private corporations . 
on ambassador~ 's death 
WASHINGTON [APJ-The State Deparanent, acting on the orders of a ''very angry'' President Carter, wants a full report from the Soviet Union on the "actions by the Soviet advisers involved in" the death of the U.S. ambassador to Mghanistan. State Department spokesman Hodding Carter disclosed Wednesday that Soviet advisers were at the scene of violence in Mghanistan earlier in the day which claimed the life of Ambassador Adolph "Spike" Dubs. "We are angyand upset,"· said spokesman Carter. · 
US justice Department announces Flood retrial 
WASHINGTON [AP]-The Justice Department announced yesterday that it will seek to re-try Rep. Daniel). Flood, D-Pa., on bribery and perjury charges. Flood's first trial ended in an huns jury on Feb. 3. According to jurors, only one member of the Jury held out for acquittal on all 11 counts. The ) ustice Department said it had notified Flood's lawyer, Axel Kleiboemer. Justice Deparanent spokesman~. Terry Adamson said that the decision to seek a new trial was not related to a jury-tampering investigation in the case. The lone juror who held put for acquittal, William Cash, had claimed he received confidential information in the case, accor~ to re~rts from other jurors. Cash later said his claim to liave iOformation favorable to Flood from a secret source was ''all a joke.'' 
Weather 
Travelers advisory this morning. Wmdy and bitter cold with a slight chance ofsnow flurries tOday. Considerable blowing and drifting of snow is likely. Locally heavy snow possible just south and southwest of Lake Michigan. Steady or slowly fallin_g temperatures. Gearing and very cold with diminishing winds tonight. Lows around 10 below. Mosdy sunny and cold tomorrow with highs near 10 above. 


s 
Friday, February 16, 19791 
3:30 pm--I.ECIURE, "ockham: divine ideas & God's knowledge,'' .prof. marilyn mccord adams, ucla 715 MEM. UB. 
4:30 pm--MASS, for fr. laurence broesd, c.s.c., DilLON OiAPEI.., celebrant fr. hesburght 
5:15pm--MASS AND DINNER, at the BUlLA SHED 
6 pm-2 am--MARDI GRAS, featuring j~ goodrich, mark davis, and "smith & co." S'IEPAN CENTER 
7:30 pm--HOCKEY, nd vs. minnesota, ACC 8 pm--SHOW, ice capades, ACC 
8:30 pm--DANCE, "an evening of dance," O'LAUGHUN AUD., sponsored by nd/smc speech & drama dept. 
Saturday, February 17, 1979 
10 am--OlNIC, organizational meeting and demonstration clinic for cheerleadirig tryouts, ACC PIT 
11 am--SEMINAR, • •family & community in nuec~: rur~ catholics in south texas, 1880-1930,'' prof. josef barton, northwestern u., 600 MEM. UB. · 
0
2 pm-2 am--~1\ GRAS featuring, "smokey joe" and "the waifs & strays," STEPAN CENTER 7:30pm--HOCKEY, nd. vs. minnesota, ACC 8 pm--SHOW, ice capades, AC£ 8 pm--FILM, "hiroshima mon amour," ENG. AUD. 8:30pm--DANCE, "an evening of dance," O'LAUGHLIN AUD. 
Sunday, February 18, 1979 
1 pro--MEETING, nd chess club, I..AFORTIJNE RAUISKEL-. 
LAR 
. 
2 pm--YOUNG PEOPLE'S REQTAL, UBRARY AUD. 
8 pro--CONCERT, goshen college orchestra, O'LAUGffilN AUD. 
TAIPEI, Taiwan (AP)-Taiwan will go along with U.S. plans to handle relations between the countries through private corpor­ations, officials announced yes­terday. But they stressed their corporation will have close government ties. 
James Soong, director of Taiwan's information office, announced that Taiwan was creating the Coordination Council for North American Affairs to act as the ''counterpart to the Amer­ican Institute in Taiwan." 
Washington established the institute to handle American interests in Taiwan after it broke diplomatic relations with Nationalist China and estabished ties with Communist China on Jan. 1. 
Soong said the Taiwan council will have the ''qualities of offi­ciality'' and that all treaties and agreem.ents with the United States ''will remain in full force.'' 
Washington, however, has 
FThe Observer 
Night Editor: Scoop Sullivan Asst. Night Editor: Pam Degnan, Beth Huffman ~py Readers: Tim }o'IJce,
Phil Cackle 
J 
Layout s:l£: Mary ]o Hol­land, Lynn Tyler Editorial Layout: Rod Beard,Clms Stewart Tina Terlaak Sports Layout: .Mark Perry Typists: Mardi Nevi'n, Mark Perry, Mary CampbeU, lisa DtValerio, Paula Vernon· EMf's: Katie Brehl, MaryMcCauley Day Editor: Keith melaragno Ad Layout: Sue johnston,Chris Slatt Photographer: Bob Gill 
The Observer [USPS 598 920} is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Observer. P.O. box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class p=e paid, Notre Dame, In­
diana . 
The Observer is a member of the Assor.iated Pren. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
said it will continue all pacts except for the 1953 mutual de­fense treaty which will be ter­minated next year. 
Government sources said Tai­wan intends to appoint the coun­cil members, give them govern­ment pensions and suppon coun­cil activities with government funds. 
Soong released a statement from Nationalist Chinese Presi­dent Chiang Ching-Kuo, who said that "reality requires that this time-honored and extremely close relationship be per­petuated, so we must swallow the bitter and handle the situation with all . the fortitude at our corn.rruind. '' 
Chiang, the eldest son of the late President Chiang Kai -shek, said he was dee_ply moved by "the voice of justice persis­tendy heard in the U.S. Congress and among the multitudes of the American people. This voice has given us warm sympathy and support ... and has at the same time indicated that justice still prevails." 
He said Taiwan's "fundamen­tal policy ofanti-Communism and national recovery will never be 
chan~ed.'' 
Truwan had balked at using private organizations to handle tts affairs, and had asked that relations remain on a g()vernmen­tallevel. But U.S. officials said they could not retain diplomatic ties with Taiwan as long as the United States recognized Peking as the sole representative of China. 
The Nationalists, who have refused to deal with Communist China, established their govern­ment on the island of Taiwan, in 1949 after they were routed from the mainland by Communist troo{'s. The Nationalists have contmued to claim to represent the mainland: 

Soong said Tsai Wei-Ping, the director ofTaiwan' s International Relations Institute, has been appointed chairman of the coun­
cil. Tsai, 67, has served as Taiwan's vice foreign minister, ambassador to New Zealand and as head of the foreign mnistry' s dep~ent of North American affaltS. 
Fr. Hesburgh to celebrate Broestl Mass 
There will be a special memor­
ial Mass for Fr. Laurence Broestl 
at 4:30 p.m. in Dillon chapel. 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh will 
be the pnnctpal celebrant, and 
Fr. Ferdinand Brown will p.ceach
the homily. This will proVIde an 
opportunity for the many friends 
of Broestl. {students, faculty, 
staff) to prayerfully gather in his 
honor. 
Broestl taught German for many years at Notre Dame. Even after attaining emeritus status in 1974 and after he became ill with cancer he continued to teach and was scheduled for a five-hour-a­
o 

week class this semester. 
He directed the Innsbruck 
program on two occasions, and 
was director of all the universi­
ty's programs of study abroad 
from 1968 to 1975. Much 
respected hr. students, he was 
rector of Dillon hall for many 
years. 


com.m.tttee m.eettng 
7:00pm. Sunday Little Theatre in Lafortune Everybody Wel~ome 


5:15p.m. Saturday  Rev. Robert Griffm, C.S.C.  
9:15a.m. Sunday  Rev. John VanWolvlear, C.S.C.  
10:30 a.m. Sunday  Rev. Francis T. Cafarelli, C.S.C.  
12:15 p.m. Sunday  Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C.  
7:15p.m. Vespers  Rev. Francis T. Cafarelli, C.S.C.  


, 
The Observer Friday, February 16, 1979·· p&3#' ·_l 
INDIANAPOliS JAPJ -Indi­rushed to the microphone to say ana's ratification the Equal he had made a mistake, and had Rights Amendment would be meant to vote no. invalidated March 22 under a "I don't know whether to la~h plan adopted yesterday by the about it or cry about it,'' ~d state Senate. Bushemi, who added that his 
The resolution, approved on a mind was distracted when he

Indiana 
29-21 vote, would declare In­voted. "We must all stand for diana's ratification null and void equal rights for all people." if ERA is not part of the federal Sponsoring Sen. Joan .Gub­

sets deadline constitution by March 22, the end bins, R.-Rndianapolis, said she of the original seven-year dead­proposed the resolution because line for its approval. lastyear Congress extended the Three more states must en­ratification deadline unti11982. dorse ERA for it to become part Mrs. Gubbins, an ERA oppon· ofthe constitution and supporters ~nt, said! ~~~~ess by .c:,xteJ?d­say there is no chance of that this mg the time limit for ratrl1catioo year. has broken trust with the states
of ERA The Senate vote was along In Indiana, we believe a contract party lines with two exceptions. is a contract. '' .S,.n ] amt"S R Hani.s, R-Evans­Sen. Julia Carson, D-Indian­ville, joined Democrats voting anpolis, said she felt the resolu­against the proposal and Sen. tion was a waste of time, because John Bushemi, D-Gary, joined legal authorities generally feel a Republicans to vote for it. state has no ri~ht to rescind its After the vote, Bushemi ratification c1t a consiituiioruil 
for passage 

Sunlight streams into Stanford Hall but to no avail as the temperatures remain ftigzd. [photo byBob &ill) 

In Alaskan pipeline 
Reports deny US oil !Jlut' 
amendment. 
~'Frankly, I'm tired of coming 
back here year after year and 
having to · discuss the Equal 
Rights AMendment,'' Ms. 
Carson said. ''I think it is time 
for the legislature to be about the 
business of taking qu-e of.salient 
issues on the calendar and in 
committee. 
"I do not believe when we talk 
about justice and equality that we 
can im{X>Se any time limit." 
Harris, a co-sponsor of the 
ERA ratification resolution, . said 
he felt that Mrs. Guvvins' pro­
posal was an attempt to influence 
other states to vote doWn-ERA or 
rescifid thci.r approval. 
Sen. ) ohn Sinks, R-Fort Wayne, co-sponsor ofthe resolu­tion with Mrs. Gubbins, said he added his name to the proposal because Congress changed the rules in the middle of the game. 
"Wouldn't Bobby Knight or Bobby Leonard like those rules changes with one miimte left?" Sinks asked. Knight is Indiana • University Basketball coach and Leonard coaches the INdiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association. 
The ERA proposal now goes to the House. In other action, the Senate voted 30-W in favor of a bill to 
. .
reqmre state ""genctes to prepare economic impact statements on rules arid regulations. 
Other bills appreved and sent to the House would require public agencies to set aside parking spaces for t~e handicap­

ped, and 'WOUld ~t Gary to 
require policemen and firemen to 
live within the city limits. 
Senators ,voted down amend­
ments to .,£-bill that would returil 
the nlfiialnations fu govemmor 
and lieutenant governor to party 
conventions, repealing the direct 
primary election for those offices. 
The bill is now ready for a final 
vote. 
In the House, a bill providing a 
$600 bonus to families of Indiana ' soldiers missing in action in Vietnam was cleared for a ftnal 
.·ote.f 
1n another ·area, tow work­
men's co~tion bills moved 
through the amendment stage 
and are now eligible for final 
action on the House floor. 1He 
measures raise the maximum 
average weekly raises . used to 
computl dfsabilty benefits. 
The House did not act on any of 
the 32 bills on the calendar for a 
final vote. 
'Red Heads' 
to hold Sundaybrunch 
The Red Head League, a newly-formed group of persons with red hair, will hold a s~ brunch on Sunday at noon m the East wing of the South Dining Hall. The brunch is open to aU red heads as well as anyone eise who is interested. · 

NEW YORK (AP) -Deseite 
reports last year of a posstble 
glut, oil flowing through the 
Alaska Pipeline has been allo­
cated for U.S. use and cannot fill 
the g::~,p created by the Iranian oil 
cutoff, industry analysts sar. 
''Every bit of Alaska oi that could be produced has been marketed. It's not sitting in tanks someplace," said Pitt Cur­tis, a S.{>okesman for Standard Oil Co. ofOhio, which controls 53 percent of the oil reserves at Prudhoe Bay, the pipeline's nor­them end. ''There never was a crude oil glut.'' 
The pipeline, . an $8 billion project, opened two years ago and is pumping 1.2 million barrels of crude od a day into the lower 48 states, about 6 percent of U.S. consumption. By law, . Alaska oil cannot be exported, except for small amounts to Canada and Mexico. 
Oil from the :t-T'Jrth Slope flows through the fipeline to the Alaska port o Valdez and is shipped to points on the West Coast, where the supply far outpaces demand. Tills led to fears of an oil glut last summer. 
Larry Goldstem, an economist at the Petroleum Industry Re­search Foundation, an industry group, said the term "glut" was misunderstood. ''All it means is that the local market on the West Coast can't ab5orb all it gets, so you send it elsewhere.'' 
The United States consumes about 20 million barrels of oil a day. About half that is produced domestically, including Alaska and offshore fields. About 45 percent comes from foreign coun­tries other than Iran, mainly Saudi Arabia. 
Experts say the cutoff ofoil from Iran is potentially as serious as the 1973-74 Arab oil embargo, especially if the flow of crude oil 
trom Iran does not resume within 
several months. 
The loss oflran as a source of oil means a lack of reserve oil that might be used in case of an emergency--such as the oilfield flre in Saudi Arabia two years ago. Deputy Energy Secretary 
John O'Leary has likened the situation to a ''dynamite train heading toward a ftre down the tracks." 


CHOOSE AUGUST A I 
First mandatory meeting for hall lottery Monday, Feb. 19 10pm in Augusta -bring ID 
IMPORTANT open to juniors and seniors contact students must also attend 


\DONT FORGET: other mandatory meetings Sat., Feb. 24 10 am Sat., March 3 10 am 

For further info call Mitch . 4487 
_c

I. :10 


---~---­

The Observer Friday, February 16, 1979-page 4 
AppliCations for Senior Bar Managers 1979-80 
Any still interested in applying for Sr Bar Mgr for next school year Please contact one o;-: the following.· 

Meanwhile, the Marine Corrs announced yesterday 10 Washington that Garwood could collect $144,000 in back pay and allowances after returning to the United States. 
The corps said Garwood will be entitled to such back benefits "unless it is determined that his conduct while in the hands of North Vietnam forces legally precludes such payment.'' 
Garwood has been officially listed as a war prisoner since he disappeared on Sept. 28, 1965. 
The Marine Corps said that ''the assertion that ... Garwood may have voluntarily remained in Vietnam raises substantial questions about the propriety of his actions." 
It is said that information now available on Garwood's "live style'' after disappearing from his unit in Da Nang "is sketchy, unconfirmed and not in a form suitable for release.'' 
''The events subsequent to Garwood's disappearance are not known,'' the Marine Corps said. "Accordingly, no conclusions are warranted with respect to the allegation of desertion.'' 
Garwood's brother, Donald, denied that Robert was a defector. 
Garwood was private first class at the time of his capture and 
Pat Casey wins trip to Ireland 

The Rugby team held its ''Trip to Ireland" raffle Feb. 1 at Corby's. Pat Casey the brother of an N.D. student, won the trip. 
Casey is from Long Island and will be spending his 16th binh­day, March 17, in the St. Pat­rick's Day Parade in Dublin, Ireland. 
\Notch: The Secrets 

of Fatima a 13 part T.V. series 9 AM 
Sunday, Jan. 28 thru S•Jnday Apri I 2 2 WNDU-T\' 
Channel 16 

remains m that same rauk, although other POWS were pro­moted while in captivity. . 'Ifte . Marine ~rps . gave no mdication of action It mtends to take after ~ood returns to 
U.S. soil. 
"As the relevant facts have not been fully developed, it is pre­mature to discuss legal options,'' the corps said. 
''Garwood enlisted in the Marine Corps after reaching the lOth grade level in high school and had served in the corps for almost two years when he disappeared. 
Jensen wins Playwrights Award 
Julie ) ensen, assistant profes­sor of speech and drama at Saint Mary's, has been given the Indiana Playwrights Award of the Indiana Repertory Theatre, Indianapolis. 
Her two winning plays, "Milk­weed and Cockleburs'' and ''Was Birds," will be produced by the professional actmg company at the Indiana Repertory Theatre on Sunday. 
''Milkweed and Cockleburs'' was co-authored by Mary Roberts and was seen last fall in South Bend at Vegetable Buddies. Miles Coiner, also a member of 
the  Saint  Mary's  speech  and  
drama department,  was  the di­ 
rector.  

''Was Birds'' has been pub­lished in the Red Cedar Review but has not been produced in this area. 
Jensen has been granted a Faculty Research Award from Saint Mary's to study contem­porai]Britisb theatre this summer m London. She earned her bachelor and master's degrees at Utah State University and her PhD. at Wayne State University, Detroit. 
In 1971 and 1976 she was the winner of the Miles Modern Poetry Playwriting Award. For three years she was editor of Moving Out, a literary and ans journal and in 1976 was a grant recipient from the Michigan [AJuncil for the Arts. In 1974 she was resident playwright at the Ossabaw Island Artists Colony. Jensen joined the Saint Mary's faculty in 1977. 

Indiana convict requests 'death appeal' withdrawal 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. [APJ -A 
29-year-old Indiana parolee and convicted slayer who said he wants to die, but agreed never­theless to appeal his death sentence, is now asking his lawyer to drop the appeal, the attorney disclosed yesterday. 
) ohn Carroll of the Southern Poverty Law Center said the condemned man, John Louis Evans Ill, asked him to dismiss the appeal now pending before the U.S. Supreme Court and also to refrain from any other legal action on his behalf. 
Carroll said he forwarded the request to the court but asked at the same time "for guidance." He said he has not heard from the court. 
The attorney said he thought there might be ethical problems He said it amounts to a detense attorney asking tor a "meri­torious" appeal to be withdrawn 
which could make the attorney an ''instrument of death.'' 
At the same time, he said, a lawyer has an obligation to represent his client in the manner in which the client wants to be presented. 
The appeal not only seeks to spare Evans' life but also challenges Alabama's death sen­tence law. 
Even in agreeing initially to the 
' .
..mstrument of death ... ' · 
appeal, Evans, whose home is in Beaumont, Tex., still said he wanted to die rather than serve a life sentence. 
But he said he was willing to contest the death sentence as a possible means of forcing the state to abandon the electric chair and choose another method of execution. 
First the Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals and then the state Supreme Court upheld Evans' conviction, and he was scheduled to die last Aug. 4. But he was given a stay of execution pending a decision by the U.S. Supreme Court. 
The Texan was convicted in April 1977 along with a co­defendant, Wayne Ritter, also a parolee from an Indiana prison, of killing a Mobile pawn shop owner, Eddie Nasser. The slaying occurred while Evans and Ri_tter were on a month-long cnme spree. 
Rjtter also got the death sen­tence and he, too, has said he wants to die. His sentence is on appeal ·before the state Supreme
Court, which is automatic under 
Alabama Law. 

..______________________...,_.........._--iliiiiillll Another snowplow victim! I [Photo by Bob Gt1J] 
Marine POW could face charges upon return to US 
ADAMS, Ind. (AP] -Linda Garwood hasn't seen her brother since he left for Vietnam 14 years ago, but she says if he's coming home just to sit in prison, he shouldn't come home at all. 
"He's been in prison long enough," the 19-year-old sister of U.S. Marine PEe. Robert Russell Garwood said yesterday. "I don't think he should come home and face jail. I wouldn't." 
Garwood, 33, of Greensburg, 
Ind.,  was  captured  in  South  
Vietnam  in  1965.  The  State  
Department,  quoting  other  

prisoners of war, said Garwood remained in Communist hands voluntarily. 
A report from an unidentified foreign traveler indicated that Garwood, who has not been seen since his capture, wants to come home, the State Department said Wednesday.
U.S. Kep. G.V. · ·'Sonny" Montgomery, D-Miss., said a special House committee that he chaired in the last Congress had information that GarwOod was a defector who led North Viet­namese units against American patrols and harassed American prisoners. 
"Let's hope he does come back,'' Montgomery said at a news conference. "He should be but i~ jail_.'' 
linda Garwood, who heard about Montgomery's comments from a television repon, said she was furious about them. 
"He (Montgomery) doesn't know (if Robert actually is a defector). He has no way of knowing," she said as she sorted through family pictures in the Garwood's mobile home in this tiny, eastern Indiana community. "I don't think he should say things like that if he's not for sure." 
Linda, who was a fair-haired 5-year-old when her big brother was captured in Vietnam, admits she doesn't remember him well, but the memories she has are special ones. 
''The last thing I remember of him was when he came home on leave after he joined up. He 
· threw me up in the air and kissed ; me, and then he was goneagain," she recalled. 
1 Their parents were upset about! repons that Roben might return, afraid to raise their hopes for what might turn out to be a false alarm, Linda said. 
"Mom's pretty upset. She took it pretty hard. She's very emotional anyway. Dad kept saying it might not be him but just somebody using his tags,'' she said, adding, "But I think it's him. At least I hope it is.'' 

Mike Schlageter 1772 Ron Zoromski 3388 Pat jordan 288-7733 Brian Mullins 288-2129 





I  
.,  
The Observer  Friday, February 16, 1979 .. page 5  

Afterlong nights of'diligent studying_, ' many a Notre Dame studentfinds himselfwith a severe case ofthe munchzes. [Photo by Bob Gillj 

Arab leftists challenge Khorneini 
in Iran 
TEHRAN/ran [A.PJ­Well-organized leftists with ties to radical Arab groups are challenging the authority of Aya­tol-lah Ruhollah Khomeini less than a week a&er Khomeini' s triumph over the Shah. The leftists, including skilled guerilla fighters of the ''People's F edayeen,'' had joined with Mos­lem religious leader Khomeini in ending 2, 500 years of royal rule in Iran. But now the leftists seek. a greater role in the country than the religious leader apparently plans to give them. Fedayeen fighters were among the armed civilians whose mur­derous fire from buildings and rooftops Saturday near Fahara­bad air base forced Imperial Guard troops to retreat and led to the army's capitulation. Within days of the fall of the Shah-appointed government of Prime Minister Shahpur Bakh­tiar, speaker~ were exhorting 
crowds at Tehran University to oppose members ofthe Khomeini backed provisional government, to refuse Khomeini's call-ro-rum in arms and to defy the religious leader's back-to-work order. 
Young Marxists envis~e a Socialist People's Republic of Iran, but without slavish ties to Moscow. Their literature pro­ises a democracy in which men and women will be equal, a prospect appealing to some edu­cated, Westernized women fear ful of what a traditional Moslem state might mean for them. 
Khomeini still conunands the unquestioned allegiance of the vast majority of Iranians, but some Western diplomats believe it may be only a matter of time before Manas t guerillas and Khomeini's Islamic Warriors, or "Mohahedeen," battle for con­trol of the nation. 
The first battle may have already been fought on the 


ND-SMC Theatre to perform 'An Evening of Dance' tonight 
by Pam Degnan 

The ND-SMC Theatre will present "An Eveningof Dance" tonight and tomorrow night at 
8:30 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The performances, consisti~g of a senes of dance routines, will be highlighted by a spirited jazz routine. Admission 1s free. 
The dancers in the presenta­tion are participants of Debra Sedore's advanced ballet class which meets weekly in Washing­ton Hall. "An Evening of Dance'' is choreographed and directed by Sedore with the technical supervision of stage manager, Mark Harris. 
The first dance piece is a ballet lecture demonstration in which the dancers emphasize their skills at the bar. Entitled, "Un 
Hesburgh joins cotntnission 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University President, who has been appointed to the President's Comrrussion on the Holocaust, participated in the Commission's first national meeting, held yes­terday at the White House Exe­cutive Office Building. 
President Jimmy Carter creat­ed the Commission May 1. It was formally established last No­vember. The Commission's _pur­poseistomakerecommendanons on establishing and funding an afpropriate memorial to victims 
o the Nazi World War II Holo­cause, and to recommend ways for the U.S. to commemorate the "Days of Remembrance of Vic­tims of the Holocaust." 
Chairman of the 34-member Commission aprinted by Carter is Elie Wiese . Wiesel is a recognized authority on the Holo­Lause and a survivor of Nazi concentration camps. 
Among the Commission mem­bers are distin~shed scholars and civic and rehgious leaders, as well as survivors of the Nazi Holocau~t. They are slated to V1Slt Holocaust Memorials in Europe, the Soviet Union and Israel later this year. 
Ballet en Trois Mouvements,..'' of "An Evening of Dance", this exhibition is composed ot a Sedore said, "Many hours have series of fast and slow dance been given up in preparing for steps. the show. The girls and I have 
Performers in this P.iece in­worked tremendously hard and ~lu~e: senior Jacquiline Nanifito; we can promise the audience an 
evening of both excitement and relaxation.'' 
Juruors Andrea Derengt Tag­gerty Patrick, Marian Witten­burg Particia Kirk and Carin Pacmco; sophomore Mary Beth Budd; and freshmen Melanie Budd, Diane Rosato, Linda Hew­itt and Colleen Quinn. 
Sedore will perform an inter­pretive dance solo to "Simple Song,'' an excerpt from Leonard Bernstein's Mass. 
The finale of the .r,rogram is ''Magic Bird of Fire ', a lively jazz routine. Background music 1s arranged by the Salsoul Orch .. hestra. 
Commenting on the production 





audio 1pcciali111 
AUDIO SPECIAliSTS, 401 N MICfllGAN, SOliDI BEND, IN. 46601. PHONE: 234-5001. 

_.,_ 
SONY· ­
PS-T3 
AUTOMATIC DIRECT DRIVE TURNTABLE SYSTEM 

Today our display rmdel of this SONY CINI...IIIrt, Regularly $190 is 15 pet cent off. 
The Audio Specialists is running its annual Demo Dutch Auction Sale. The way it works is simiple: On February 10 all demos in our Audio & Video departments were marked at 10% off suggested list. Every business day the price will drop 1% per day until a comi>onent is sold. Only one of each item wilJbe sold at the sale price. The sale ends February 28th when everything remaining will be 25% off 
The .Pressure is on! Buy early and get the best selection or gamble and wait for even bigger deals. 
AI( tape J»:z'ces are discounted by the ~ame amounts during the sale and anyone bnnging ;~J thzs ad will get another 2% offal/pnces. · 
Come in and Save!! 
Fe1turn 

• 
Oorect Dri\le system with Sony's unique BSL motor 

• 
Two speeds: 33V3 and 45 RPM 

• 
Automatic Tonearm lead-in, return and shut-off and repeat 

• 
Fronl panel pla~/reJeCt/repeat button 

• 
Machine finished cast aluminum platter 

• 
Newly designed hea\1'1 rubber record cush1on 

• 
Viscous lilted rubber feet 

• 
Slrobe light and fine speed adjustment of :!::4% 

• 
Staticatty balanced "S" shaped tonearm with universal shell 

• 
Acoustically dead "low 0" base 

• 
Remote viscous damped cueing 

• 
Anti-skating de111ce w1th direct readmg gauge 

• 
Tonearm with safety clutch mechanism 


grounds of the U.S. Embassy Wednesday. Khomeini Lieuten­ants and Western diplomats blamed Marxists for staging the attack. The raiders with drew after a battle with the Mojahedeen. The People's Fedayeen have denied respon­sibility for the embassy attack. 
Western . diplomats admit having little knowledge of the leftist underground ana claim to have no information on its organ­ization or command structure. While Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi was on the throne, most of their attention was directed at the larger, better-equipped anti­government guerrillas of the Mojahedeen, whose victims in­cluded American advisers and government officials. 
The Fedayeen, including many young, middle-class men edu­-cated in Europe and the U.S., operate a headquarters in the technical faculty building of Teh­ran University, a few yards from the university Mosque where the 

• The Professional Touring Co. of • 
~­

: GODSPELL •
• 

: Sundo.y, Feb.l8, 8pm : : Century Center Theatte : : Info: 219-284-9711 .: 
: good for .50 off with this ad : 
Mojahedeen are based. Others in the leftist movement include the remnants of the 
. Moscow.oriented, Communist Tudeh Party and its offshoot, the newly proclaimed Iranian Com­munist Party. All have pledged allegiance to Khomeini, though many Westerners and Iranians see this as a marriage of con­venience to take advantage of Khomeini' s mass appeal. With the Shah gone and his Sayak secret police in hiding, various parties have been able to recruit openly for the ftrst time. Diplomats believe the leftists are probably fmding many con­verts among more radical mem­bers of the middle class who are fearful of a loss of power in a religiously oriented Islamic state. Khomeini' s relative silence on the role of opposition groups -all he says is they will be free to express views not "against the interest of the nation"-has been largely responsible for what may have been an inevitable split. 
r 


• 

The Observer Friday, February 16, 1979 -page 6 

NDFC plans Mock Market 
by Maribeth Moran total net gain in his portfolio of ~ 
Staff Reporter stocks will receive\ a prize do­
nated by the South Bend broker­

The Noue Dame Finance dub age firm of Thomson and will conduct its annual Mock McKinnon. Stock Market this year from Feb. Prizes to be awarded include 19 through March 30. The main the $100 grand prize, as well as desk will be in the Business three special pnzes of $2 5 each Adminisuation building's lobby, for the best portfolios in specific but, during the first week, shares categories: best graduate stu­also may be purchased in the dent, best undergraduate non­Saint Mary's and South dining business major and best under­halls durins. dinner and in the graduate business major. Memorial Library lobby between 1bis year's stock market is 8 and 10 p.m. co-chaired by Mark Jachec and An investor may purchase a mock Ken Ostrowski. J achec suessed $10,000 account for $1 or three that the stock market is not mock $10,000 accounts for $2. meant an an opportunity for He may invest it in any stock business majors to test their listed on the New York or investment skills in a realistic American Stock Exchange. The manner. He pointed out that, investment may be either in one two years ago, an Arts and particular company or split in any Letters student won the ~rand manner desirea by the mvestor. prize, and three years ago, 1t was 
The investor with the highest won by a science major. 
Besieged.with ins:anity, this Stanford resident opened his window, removed his shirt, and turned on hzs electnc fan 'to cool off' fphoto by Bob Gtllj 


Meet Someone New 
at 

THE RAMROD 
* dance floor * DJ Buddy King every Fri & Sat night
* pool table 511 S. Mich St. (downtown) open till 3am. 
W€ only put on one show th1s week at 
the nazz.. 
...anb What a Sl'lOW It IS! 
SatURbay 9:30-1 :00 

tam €1.ltson & paul hatem (f.olk mus•c mb qu•taus) 
The Student Union 

RECORD SALE 
Records Priced at Cost!! 
•February 19-23 
•Frotn Noon to 5 ptn 
Second Floor LaFortune Room 2-d This will be the only time the records will ever be priced this low! ! 
Tours village 

President Carter visits Mexico 
Mexico fAP)-President and Mrs. Carter flew here yesterday for tour of a showcase agricultural village of the sort the Mexican government hopes will keep its peasants down on the farm. 
In this litte pig farming village, about 100 nules south of here, Carter was to tour a first-grade classroom, join local farmers for a buffet lunch and receive a brief­ing on the village's progress under a rural development pro­gram, financed in part with U.S. tax dollars. 
The town center, with new road signs installed for the 
pre-sident's visit, was decorated 
With bnghtly colored streamers. 
A mariachi band added to the 
festive atmosphere 
Before departin~ for the village Carter and MeXIcan President Jose Lopez Portillo spent about 3 1/2 hours yesterday discussing illegal immigration, trade barriers and Mexico's newfound oil and gas riches. 
Lopez Portillo, who surprised a irritated U.S. officials a day earlier with pointed public criti­cisms of the United States, 
~reeted  Carter  on  the steps of  
'Los  Pinos, ' '  his  official  resi­ 
dence.  

The two spoke in Spanish as Lopez Portillo showed Carter inside, where they stopped briefly to examiq_e a huge show­case filled with pistols before beginning their discussions. 
Mter the talk Carter left by helicopter for the trip to the village, whose name means "The place where they have black eyes' ' in the language of the native Nahuatl Indians. 
The town of 3, 500 was the last holdout of followers of Emiliano Zapata, who led a peasant army in the 1910 revolution. 
Carter, who flew to Mexico Wednesday, returns to Washing­ton today. His absence from the capital led him to ask Vice President Walter F. Mondale to cut short a skiing vacation in Vail, Colo., to keep developments in the area of Iran "under careful review' ' at the White House, vice presidential press secretary Al­bert Eisele said. Mondale had 
Augusta 
•
organtzes 
The first mandatory meeting 
for Saint Mary's students who 
are interested in living in Augus­
ta Hall next year Will be held 
Monday night in the Augusta 1V 
room 10 p.m. A general descrip­
tion of the 'dorm will be given as 
well as pertinent information 
concerning the hall lottery. 
There will be a total of three 
mandatory meeting in the next 
two weeks open to all interested 
students who will be juniors and 
seniors next year. Contact 
students for friends abroad must 
also attend all three meetings. 
Students must bring their IDs. 
The second meeting will be 
Saturday, Feb. 24 at 10 a.m. 
Kathleen Rice, dean of Student 
Affairs, will discuss Augusta as a 
self-governing dorm at the meet­
ing. A question and answer 
period will follow. 
The final meeting will be 
Saturday, March 3 at 10 a.m. Sr. 
Leo Anthony of the College 
Convent will present a history of 
the hall and the hali officers will 
discuss their roles. 
Augusta, which is primarily a 
senior dorm, has been an experi­
ment for the college during the 
past six years. There are 3 3 
singles, six triples, two quads 
and two doubles. As a self-gov­
erning dorm, the directors of the 
hall are the hall officers and oner 
resident advisor. 
For further information or 
questions concerning attending 
the meetings, please contact 
Karen Mitchell at 4487 or at 321 
Augusta. 

planned to fly back to Washing­ton this weekend. 
Mter giving Carter a correct but cool reception Wednesday, Lopez Portillo used unusually blunt language in his toast at a state luncheon. 
Noting the economic inde­pendence expected to flow from Mexico's oil and natural gas, which may rival the reserves in Saudia Arabia, Lopez Portillo said, "Mexico has ... suddenly found itself the center of Ameri­can attention -attention that is a surprising mixture of interest, disdain and fear." 
He warned against "surprise moves and sudden deceit,'' a reference to a natural-gas deal which Washington cancelled last year on grounds that Mexico's price was too high, and against ''insensitivity, ambition, fear or selfseeking manipulation'' in dealings between the two nations. 
Carter did not respond pub­licly, but an administration offi­cial traveling with him told reporters: "A certain amount of this is, I suppose, permissiblefor home consumption given the history of the relationship. But one would hope they wouldn't get carried away with that.'' 
NDKofC elects, installs new officers 
The Notre Dame chapter of the Knights of Columbus, the largest and oldest college council in the nation; recently elected and in­
stallea  their  officers  for  the  
up<;oming  year.  The  elections  
took place Feb.  13.  The  new  

eff~eJ)difght-Tom Leibowitz 
Deputy Grand Knight -Francis D'Eramo Chancellor -Mike Gilroy Recorder -Roman Macia Treasurer-Geoff Mosher Trustees -Tom Pepke, Bill Alban, Eli Shaheen Advocate -Rob Patcht>n Lecturer-Mark Rigotti Warden -Tom Hunt Inside Guard -Tim Linehan Outside Guard-Francis Tisak 
Outgoing Grand Knight Bob Bellissimo was presented a plaqu~ f9r a job well done. The counc!l 1~ currently the largest orgaruzanon on campus. 

The Observer 



Class of 1962 


Rico Valentino 
"The Campus Locomotive" 
Major: Romantic Languages. Always has a date... wears iridescent slacks ... from the wrong side of the tracks ...been on "American Bandstand" ... still cruises local high school for chicks. 


Zelda Woofenbite 
"Gums" 
Major: Library Science. Watches "Queen For A Day" and cries ... studies a lot. .. always in curlers ...dependable ... makes popcorrr every Friday and Saturday night ... uses nasal spray ...probably will be "left on the shelf." 


Roby Farnsworth Harrington ill 
"Moneybags" 
Major: Micro/Macro Economics...Lack of money is the root of all evil" ... chauffered to classes ... wears penny loafers with dimes in 'em ... Mark Cross luggage ... plans to start at the top (of his father's corporation). 

B.M.O.C. 
"He only had one thing on his mind" 




Bettina Putschnik 
"Pinky" 
Major: Art. Ban the Bomb ... dresses in black ... recites blank verse poetry in coffee houses ... met one of the Limelighters ...can slip into a trance ... p_roud of her Holden Caulfield type brother ... wants a pad in the Village ... bongo drums ...really hep. 
~ 1979 PABST BREWING COMPANY, Milwaukee, Wis. and other cities. 


Tilton Sidewheys 
"Tilt" 
Major: Motel Management. Sings along with Mitch ... the original clone... wears white socks and ripple-soled shoes that squeak... frequently "ditched," even by parents ... can burp the "Gettysburg Address" ... perma­nently out to lunch. 

"Hot Stuff' 
Major: Elementary Education. Pure as the driven snow ... pert ... style galore ... a real knockout, especially in sweaters ... likes "mature" men ... voted year-round "Ice Princess." 
Freud Ian Stipp 
"Eggy" 

Major: Nuclear Physics. Actually finished "Ulysses"... wears coke-bottle glasses ... popular around exam time ... knows the differ­ence between "inductive" and "deductive" reasoning ... turned Harvard down. 

Jim Shoe 
"Twinky" 
Major: P.E./Interior Decorating. A complex person ... plays varsity everything ... an opera buff ... sometimes misunderstood ... ··once more, and I'll grind your face into the con­crete" ... sensitive ... favorite color: chartreuse . .. a neo-Renaissance Man. 
~ <! '. ~ ••••• .; ; r>' , I .. .. ... •I ·' ..~ ..... ~ .; .. u Jj ,.:: ,/' .. ..; -• ~ .:: • ' ' I • "' • ~ • • L ~ • • t .. ' . .:o ' • .. ~ ~ " .. ~ • .. T • • ' • • ... .... • 
~~-­

___________________________--.;._____........ 
----------------------------------.. 
The Observer Friday, February 16, 19?9 -page 8 

SMC Placement Bureau 

RECRUITING DATE  NAME OF ORGANIATION  POSITIONS AVAILABLE  MAJOR/CONCENffiATION  
Feb. 20 (fues)  Winters National Bank  Management Trainees  DUBAI, United Arab EmiratesLiberal Arts (AP) • The United Arab EmiratesBusiness and Qatar announced oil price  
Feb. 21 (Wed)  GAB Business Services  Insurance Adjuster Trainee  hikes ofabout 7 percent today forAll various grades of high-quality light crude, oil industry sources  
Feb. 22(Iburs)  B.F. Goodrich  MarketingISales Rep  reported. The sources said SaudiBusiness Arabia is expected to take similar action.  
Feb 23 (Fri)  Whirlpool Corp.  Acct., Mangt., Mark.  The increase would boost theBusiness Mark/Soc  

Genl. Supervision 

In $7 million capers 
Oil prices to soar 7 percent 
current price of $14.10 per 42­gallon barrel for permium low sulphur crudes to $15.12. That rate went into effect Jan. 1 following the decision by the organization of Petroleum Expor­ting Countries to raise the 1978 price for all types of oil by 5 percent.
(AP) it Winning. director of the gambling service French Riviera, conducted a tho­

band of crooks, using screwdri-. An .additio~al trick involved in France's Inte~ior Ministry, The rise could increase Americn
rough examination of its roulette 

vers and bits of rubber to doctor msertmg a sliver of rubber under that they had noticed "unusual gasoline retail prices by about a
whels. 

roulette wheels, has collected plaques bearing undesirable gambling patterns" being used cent a j?;allon. ~ 
A number of suspects are

about $7 million in one· of the numbers so that the ball would by certain clients. These prime crudes are fetching
employees of the casinos hit by

most ingenious international bounce off it and favor the The gamblers would play only as much as $20 per barrel on the
the ring. In Monaco, a 44-year­

gambling capers ever uncovered. number with the loose screws. on one particular roulette wheel. spot market as a result of the
old carpenter and two security

Police sources say about 20 Police and the French gambling They would bet only on certain shortage created by the continu­
men have been arrested on

suspects have been arrested, but control office are being discreet numbers, which won with a ing closure of the Iranian oil
suspicion of helping to doctor the

dozens more could be at large about the affair, still hoping to regularity that defied the law of fields.
wheels.

judging by the scope ofthe racket catch the masterminds behind averages. If the wheel was Local oil industry officials de­which is believed to have been the-racket. closed, the mysterious gamblers ''The change caused by the nied that the 7 percent hike going on for up to three years. But with the affair being dis-would leave. loosened screws and the rubber applicable to premium crudes 
Twelve casinos in France, the cussed in French newspapers, It took investigators more than a was almost imperceptible,'' one only would have an overall effect fabled Monte Carlo gaming and a judge in Nice preparing to year to discover the secret. Only source said. "But a good roulette of pushing oil prices higher. house in Monaco, and others in hear evidence, there appears to mJuly 1977 did the loose screws wheel in so fmely balanced that The international oil com­Yugoslavia, Italy, South America be little hope left for more major come to light, when the Casino de the slightest changed can alter panies are already making up to and Mrica have suffered losses, arrests.. Ia Siesta in Antibes, on the the odds. $7 extra per barrel. French press reports say. The press reports say the ring-
Sources close to the investiga-leader is a Czechoslovak living In tion say the crooks operated by West Germany. He has not been loosening the screws that hold in caught. HEW secretary takes stand 
place the tiny walls between each Gambling authorities ·estimate number on the roulette wheel. the crooks' total haul at 30 million The slightest loosening of those francs, or $7.05 million. 
Califano refuses to ban Darvon
walls increased the ''elasticity'' First suspicions arose in J anu­of the number picked for doctor-ary 1976 when several French ing, and heightened the odds on casinos informed Roger Saulnier, WASHINGTON [AP] -HEW doctors. cides and with other abuse, and 
secretary Joseph A. Gilifano Jr. Califano's decision met with a its effectiveness. refused yesterday to ban the key mixed reaction from Dr. Sidney 
He said the best evidence so PREPARE 
FOR: ingredient in the popular pres­Wolfe, head of the Health far indicates ''propoxyphene is 
cnption pain reliever Darvon but Research Group. That group, no more effective -and may be announced steps he said would . founded by consumer advocate less effective -than aspirin,

MCAT•DAT•GMAT 
ensure public welfare while the Ralph Nader, had asked the FDA codeine and other pain reliev­

product is studied. to ban propoxyphene or to place ers."

PCIT·ORE·OCIT·VAT· SAT 
Califano ordered the Food and it under more stringent controls. 

The secretary's announcement 
Dru~ Administration to issue a Wolfe said after Califano's follows two weeks of hearing on 

special drug bulletin to one news conference that ''thousands propoxyphene by the Senate


1MB I, II.III·ECFM&·FLEX·VQE 
million doctors within the next 30 of people will die unnecessarily Small Business subcommittee on 

days that would spell out the because they (the department) monopoly.
NAT'L DENTAL BQAADS • NURSING BOARDS 
risks of using propoxyphene, the are not acting now. " Propoxyphene now is available

Fleaible Progr•m• & Hours 
ingredient in question. But Wolfe also contended it under regulations that place no

Visit Our Centers & See For Yourseff 
He also ordered the FDA to was the flfSt time the government limits on its production, allow a 

Why We Make The Difference 
hold a public hearing April 6 to ''has taken a position that Darvon 

physician to order a prescriptiondiscuss whether propoxyphene is dangerous.'' by phone and allow up to five
GRE GMAT 

should be placed under more Dalifano told a news confer­refills every six months. stringent federal controls. And ence that propoxyphene is ''gen­
The Health Research Group
Classes 
he said the FDA would recom­erally not dangerous'' when had asked that the drug either be 

mend by June 1 whether that taken as directed but noted it now banned or that its manufacture 

SPECIAliSTS SINCE 1938
now forming 
step should be taken. ranks second with barbiturates as be limited, that written prescrip­

"It is imperative that these the prescription drug most often tions be required and that refills 

warnings be given...and that associated with suicides. He said be abolished.
caD 291-3150 
doctors think and count to 10 it also had been implicated in before they prescribe these some accidental deaths, particu­

! 
drugs," the secretary of the D.r.
'i larly when mixed with alcohol or l.Jesbur~ah 
II ~ Department of Health, Education 'tranquilizers. r~ .11~ 6' and Welfare said. Darvon cur­Propoxyphene is the key in-• !\ ~----------------· rently is the third most popular gredient in Datvon, the trade appotnts
jl
,I pain reliever prescribed by name used by Indianapolis-based Q .. Eli Lilly and Co. The chemical 1 C'l-.au~ahne
off-campus presents! 

•••• also is sold simply as propoxy-JT.J 6 , SSY phene and also is an ingredient m
' 
such pain relievers as Datvon The appointment of
I' tenn1s paRty ...•••, ND-SMC 
••• Compound and Datvocet N, Cali-Eileen O'Shaughnr;ssy, 136 De­
______ &:

I ••• to sponsor
•• fano said. Windt Road, Winnedtka, I ll., toI~RI.,f:eBRuaRY 23Rb 7__. 11pm I Lilly issued a statement from the Library Advisory Council atll essay contest its Indianapolis headquarters the University of Notre Dame has
I 
I calling Califano's decision proper been announced by Theodore M. The Committee on the History and responsible. Hesburgh, C.S.C. president.I All You Can Drink ' I of the University will sponsor the The statement said Lilly issued Her husband, John J.I annual prize competition for additional warnings to physicians O'Shaughnessy, was a longtime essays dealing with the history of almost three years ago. member of the Arts and Letters
I 
Racquetball rOo I the University oF Notre Dame or ''The company is deeply con-Advisory Council before hisI Saint Mary's College. A prize of cerned about the misuse of any of death in 1971, and her father, the $50 will be awarded during its products and will continue to late I.A. O'Shaughnessy, was a
]acuzz•'s & Saunas u

I I commencement weekend. work with the government and trustee and benefactor of the All graduate and undergrad-the medical profession during the University. uate students at the two schools review of P.ropoxyphene," Lilly The Universiry's advisory
tlCk€tS $7.00 I 

are eligible to participate. There said. "Lilly is confident the councils consist of between 30 is no requirement as to length, evidence will again confirm that and 40 business and professional 
I South Bend Racquet Club I and entn~s will be judged ~y a propo?')'Phene is .bot;h a safe and leaders who meet annually with subc?mmittee of th~ Cor:ruruttee effective analsestc.' deans and other academic ad­
I 

on History of the Uruverstty. Dr. Califano srud the FDA review ministrators to discuss the de­
i=oR t1x & 1nro. call ShaRI 234-1996 1 

PhiliJ? Gleas?n of the J?epartm~nt -would seek to determine the risks velopment of Notre Dame's col­of History I~ acceptmg entnes of propoxyphene, the extent to leges, as well as its Law School,lanet 287-3804 I through April 16. which it is associated with sui-library and art museum. 
·----------------~ 

$ 
-


Editori 

s 

Friday, February 16, 1979 -page 9 
P.O. Box Some disputes 
A Brighter side way in which I previously vtewed 
the subject. I didn't learn how to 

about justice 
explain the afterlife or discover
to philosophy why evil exists in the world. I 
didn't even find a sound proof for Virtually all of us become But if we can hardly avoidGod's existence. But I can say, if involved at some time or another getting involved in disputesA recent Observer article, nothing more, that the class was in disputes about justice. Some­about justice, how can we ''The Problem of Philosophy'', interesting. Dr. Loux presented times our involvement in such resolve such disputes in a reason­noted a seemingly popular atti-some baste philosophical issues disputes is rooted in the fact that able way? Cenainly, if we all tude among college students in such an enthusiastic and we believe ourselves to be vic­share a common conception of required to study Philosophy·· pleasing style that I feel even the tims of some form of injustice justice--if we all agree, for that Philosophy is nothing more most matter-of-fact engineering affecting them. Sometimes the example, to such principles as than a futile attempt to under-major would have felt inclined to injustice at issue seems to that justice requires that social 

stand age-old arguments on the speculate upon some ofthe topics require for its elimination a goods be distributed ''from each meanings of life; a process that _discussed. 
drastic reform, or even a revolu­according to his choice, to each 

not only incapacitates the human Everyoi_le has something to say tionary change, in the political according to his contribution'' (orbrain but also prompts one to about God, life, death, evtl, etc. •Afrom each accordin~ to his
system--like the change from free 
question the saruty of those who To express an opinion on such market capitalism to worker­ability, to each according to his proposed such nonsense. These tofics ts part of what Philosphy is controlled socialism. Sometimes need,'' or ''from each according are l>recisely the kind offeelings I al about. To learn something it seems to require for its to his choice, given his assets, to earned with me into Dr. Loux's about them is the pure wisdom 
elimination only some electoral each as he is chosen,'' or Introductory Philosophy course Socrates refers to as being the pressure or administrative something else mstead;--then it on the_ first day of class. greatest. possible good that one decision--what might be required would seem that the only prob­can attam. 
say, in ending a war. Biu lem we shall confront in resolvingNo, I don't want to ~roclaim Sure, there will always be whatever the ongin and whatever our disputes about justice is thehow a single course in PhiloS?{>hY those who see Philosphy only as the practical effect, such disputes apparently manageable one ofhas s?aken ~e from the ptiiful' an added burde,n to an already about justice are difficult to af~lying our shared conceptiondomam of tgnorance and has over-loaded currtculum. But I'm avoid, especially when dealing o JUStice to the various areas ofdirected my senses toward a not the only non-Philosophy rna­with issues (like the distribution concern.

more fulfilling and satisfying life jor who appreciated the course. 
of income, the control and use of But what if we lack such a(although Socrates would proba-My thankS to Dr. Loux and the natural resources, and the distri­shared conception of justice?
bly say, "Then what good 1s it to Notre Dame Philosophy Depart­you?"). I simply want to say that ment. bution of educational and What shall we do then? As a first 
my Philoso_phy class at Notre · employment opportunities) that step, we should explore whatever ·have widespread social effects. we do hold in corrunon; that is,
Dame has dismissed the negative Michael Meisch we should explore whatever assum_ptions and distinctions regarding justice we do hold in common even when our concep­tions of justice differ. Such
'Belonging to everybody' 
assumptions and distinctions will, in fact, constitute our very ''concept of justice,'' that which makes our alternative concep­

Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University/resident, Ofcourse, Notre Dame students can also be cited tions of justice alternative con­made the comment during a recent Ph· Donohue for failing to listen openly to administration views ceptions of justice. Thus, one of Show that he felt that becoming a priest would regarding questionable policies. And it may not these assumptions will be the allow him to "belong to everybody." It is obvious have been a good idea to put Mr. Donohue up to principle that justice requires that Hesburgh S{>reads his time around generous} y asking questions regarding campus life in front of a giving each person his due: to many orgaruzations and national leaders. national audience. But to some extent, this is while alternattve conceptions of However, his comments in the Donohue program understandable. justice may differ over JUSt what recall to mind that he may not belong to the Students are gettin~ used to some administra­constitutes a "person s due," students here at Notre Dame. tors giving insubstannal answers to these polic)' (see, or example, the alternative 
The ground for this opinion are based u,t><>n the questtons. In a situation such as this, students will principles mentioned in the last 
paragraph), all will yet hold thisapparent policy of Hesburgh and his assoctates of naturally stop listening, or else take extraordinary princtple in common.

not giving a straight answer to any question that means to force the adminstration's hand. · Next, of course, we shouldextends beyond "Have you ever wanted to get Do students need rules to live by? Sure we do; undertake a critical evaluation ofmarried, Father?", specifically as exhibited by and we are provided with them in 22 pages of the available alternative concep­Hesburgh on the Phil Donohue Show. appendices in the most recent edition of duLac. 
tions of justice. We should, thatUpon close inspection of last Thursday's However, some of these rules, such as those is, carefully coQ_sider and com·Observer article relating Hesburgh' s appearance dealing with parietals, need to be debated. 

pare whatever reasons haveon Donohue's show, one cannot find a direct This campus could use some honest conversation been, or might be, advanced inanswer by Hesburgh to Donohue's questions between the administration and the student body. 

favor of these conceptions ofregarding student rights and position within_ the But more essential is a new attitude on the part of justice. Hopefully, through this University. The questions dealt with parietals, both administration and student body. Uilfonu­process of critical comparisonstudents-.-datms to-aoulthood, ana communication natelv, if Fr. Hesburgh won't adopt the policy of 

and evaluation, something

between administration and students. respect and honesty toward students, little a_pproaching a common concep­Regarding the parietals issue, Hesburgh progress will be made. 
tton of justice will begin toremarked that ''You have restrictions all through Ray McGrath emerge. But even in areas whereyour life, and I think it's good to start learning a this does not occur, those who have carried out this process of critical comparison and evalua­tion cannot reasonably be held blameworthy for afplying what· ever conception o justice they have come to regard as the best available. 

In sum, reasonably resolving disputes about justice in cases_ in which we lack a common concep­tion of justice requires us to 1) explore the assumptions and distinctions belonging to the concept of justice and 2) critically evaluate the available alternative conceptions of justice. Indeed, we can hardlv be held exempt from this ~rocedure even m those cases m which we do share a common conception of iustice. For the above procedure en­sures a resolution of our disputes about justice based on the most reasonable conception of justice available, and thiS may not, after all, be the conception of j\JStice that just happens to be coaimonly accepted. 
This is not, ofcourse, to suggest that the task of carrying out this twofold procedure is an easy one. Indeed, tew of us are confident ofhaving a firm enou~ g~p on the assumptions and distinctions belon~g to the concept of justice, and fewer still are confident of having success­fully carried out a full critical evaluation of the available alte~:­native conceptions of justice. Nevertheless, what Wf can do is periodically reflect upon the rela­tionship ofquestions of justice to our courses ofstudy and research here at Notre Dame. And, happily, the Justice Teach-in scheduled for February 21-22 is desigrted to help us do just that. On the days of the teach-in, all faculty and students should, -. therefore, take some time out in their classes to reflect upon the 
questions  of justice  related  to  
whatever  they  happen  to  be  
studying.  For  only  through  

activities such as these, can we hope to reach reasonable solu­tions to those disputes about justice in which we are involved. 
jamesP. Sterba 
Assistant Professor of Philosophy 

few of them in school. " 
_When Donohue asked, "Ar~ you co~unicating DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau wtth the students on these tssues?' 
Hesburgh's r-----------,.,...-.;.... ________ ., 

ans_wer was, "One of the greatest things we can HAVE >WSTA!<T-YEAH, 6/NIV'f.Biff 
fltY, I'M HIP 70 THAT,

do ts draw a few parameters. EP I1XJ<JI¥l 7Hf/(£'SNfJ{/tfl/{){ 
MAN/ 7AI.£NT OON'T 
Finally, Donohue wanted to know Hesburgh fOf. AJ.KJTHel{ AVAI/ABte. &VfN 

CWNT frJ/l.. MJTHIN' would respond to students who say: "Father, 1 JOB YeT; f(J(SOMtlJNe 
IF if}{/f?E NJT IN IJ//TH we're adults now. You're treatin~ us like : BtNNYr 7!<AJNIN6. 
THe MANI /?"'·--..:..... children." Hesburgh replied, "lthink its an effort " 1 \ to have some gUidelines. And I think most youngsters want some guidelines.'' 
The last time I looked, honesty was defined as 

''fairness and straightforwardness ofconduct. '' To 
respect someone was to consider that person 
worthy of high regard. 
Fr. Hesburgh appears, in this light then, to disrespect the students, Donohue, and the members of Donohue's audience. Nor are we worthy of 
honest answers to good questions. E~:::':::J:~~~~;:::::S~.:J L::::::::=:::_...::::::=:::!::::...:!:I~_J 
P/6 ff.l I P,l45 
811TSINCC OISCI<IMINA7Ef) 
YOU~ A641NST, CININ' 
8/.ACX.. AN0601N'/ 
I 

either institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson
-The Observer_ of 
as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Spons Editor ............ Ray O'Brien Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calculi Features Editor ......... Chris Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Langhenry Photo Editor .......... ,Doug Chnstian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Ediwrial Editor . . . . . . . Ros~ Mills per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem· Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cac~? Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Saint Mary's Edito• ...... PJ/en BuddJ Business Manager . . . . . . . . ] ohn Tuclt.er Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam· News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advenising Manager ........ &b Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Afike Lewis 
------~-------------------­
.. 
-~---------------------~ ------.----------........ 
Friday, February 16, 1979-page 10
FeatureS 
The Hesburgh Interview~ Part II 
Theodore Hesburgh : The Priest, Educator and Politician 
I 
I 
I
.. 
j 
1 r 
t 
t 
J 
. 
about. Without that dimension. in your 
This is the second installment of a life, you don't really think in the broad 

two-part senes. Editor-in-Chzef Tony range of thinking that a human being is 
Pace and Features Editor Chn's Stewart capable of in a world and universe like 
this. Worse yet, you don't really learn

interviewed Fr. Hesburgh on t'ssues of 
how to be what you should be as a

concern to the students ofNotre Dame. 
Stewart; Does a liberal arts education 

have any real value? With the problems 
of cost, what will happen to the 
university system? Will the smaller 
schools continue to dry up, as they have 
with increasing frequency in states as 
New York? 
Hesburgh: There've been over 100 

small universities and colleges go under 
in the past five years, but there have 
been a few new ones started to offset 
some of the losses. 
As far as the value of liberal arts 

education, I think it is the most 
important component that any university 
gives. It should be a part of all the 
education that any university gives. 
In other words, I don't care if someone 

around here is in science, engineering, 
business, architecture or whatever, they 
should have some liberal arts content in 
their education. If they don't, they're 
going to be half people, lacking people. 
It's only through a liberal arts educa­

tion that you learn how to think--clearly, 
broadly and ultimately, if you will, to get 
at the heart of questions and not just 
wander around the periphery. 
Secondly, thinking critically, and ex­

pressing those thoughts, is only gotten 
m its ultimate fashion through a liberal 
arts education. It's only through the. 
things you study in liberal arts that affect 
your way of expressing yourself--your 
sense of history, your sense of the 
philosophical and theological dimension 
:>f things, the sense of the beauty of 
English expression in literature, art, 
poetry or whatever. 
It's really only in a liberal arts 

education that you ask questions deep 
enough to position yourself as you are: 
as a person, as a man or a woman, a 
black or white, a Westerner or Easter­
ner, a Christian or non-Christian. We 
have all these types on our campus. One 
has to come to terms with what he or she 
1s. 
Lastly, I think it's only through a 

liberal arts education that one gets at 
values. You don't really get values 
directly out of the study of chemistry. 
There, you get some values about how 
your nund works, in precision, in hard l work and dedication. Fundamentally, values come through life stories. They come through exempli­
·(!cation of persons: heroes or villains. 
They come through some sense of what 
war and peace, love and hate, beauty 
and ugliness, truth and falsehood are all 
human person. 
All other kinds of education, and this university has those other kinds of education, teach you how to do some­thing--how to be a doctor, an engineer, a business person, a lawyer. These are all good things, and one has to study hard to learn how to be a good one. 
But to learn how to be a human being, not just learn how to do this or that, which makes you an engineer, a lawyer, a teacher, a priest or whatever, to learn how to be a human being is the most 
· fundamental of all. If you're not a good human being, a good human person, you're not going to be a good lawyer, a good engineer, or a good doctor. To get back to your question about can you be a good businessman without a conscience: I say you can't be a good businessman if you don't have a con­science. Stewart: As an influential educator who is well-connected politically, what do you forsee on the international scene? Considering the rapid increase in instability throughout the globe, ·what are your thoughts about the church's role in these events? In what direction, if any, is the world going? Could present worldwide events culminate in inrerna­tional anarchy, possibly precipitating a nuclear confrontation? Hesburgh: Fjcst, let me say that there are two great troubled areas in the'world today. One deals with the equilibrium between the might powers--Russia, the United States and now China. Not that China is mighty militarily, but it's certainly mighty in manpower. The relationship between these three powers is going to be enormously imponant for the future of mankind. That is why SALT is imponant on the one hand, and the Chinese connection is imponant on the other. Those things have to be brought into some kind o~ _~guilibrium and it's often a very difficult and frustrating process. Secondly, the whole Middle East is a super power keg. God only knows what diiection it's going. If I were Egypt or Israel, I'd make peace tonight. Peace would be one element of stability in this terribly destabilized area. Recent de­velopments in Iran, compounded by our energy and oil needs, and what all that means to the industrial growth of the world, reveal the imponance of peace in the Middle East. The third point is the whole question about what we do about the one-fourth of 

Chris Stewart and Tony Pace 

humanity that is really livit4 sub-human existences. A billion peopfe who don't have enough to eat any day of the year, half of whom are actually malnourished and will die from the effects of it sooner or later; a billion peole who don't know how to read or write, and are just cut off from the total progress of humanity; a billion people who are poorly housed, poorly clothed; a billion people who get practically no education and no access to medical care. These people do not see a doctor from the day they are born to the day they die. 
In a word, a billion people without hope. 
Now, the fact is we could eliminate the effects c;>f such dire J?Overty between now and the year 2000 wtth an expenditure of about $30 billion a year. We're now spending $15 billion a year on human development around the world (we being the developed countries) and the social­ist countries very little (capital expendi­ture on human development). 
In any event, $15 billion is spent totallv on human development worldwide. The terrible thing is that we're spending over $400 billion a year on armaments, which is completely dead capital. You might as well take the money and throw it m the St. Joe River, except the St. Joe River couldn't hold that much money. 
It is just incredible that one-tenth of the money we spend on armaments could clear up this terrible problem of one-fourth of humanity living in subhu­man conditions, worse than farm ani­mals in America. American farm animals have better places to live, more food to eat, and rece1ve better care than these people. 
What I'm saying is something has to be done about that, the problem of the disparity between the rich nations and the poor ones. 
The church has cenainly been more involved in these areas, and must become more involved in the future. I think the develo~d world must forge a new contract wtth the South, with the underdeveloped world. That's what our conference in Vienna will be about (Fr. Hesburgh will be in Austria this swruner attending a major conference concerning relations between the industral and third world nations). 
I think those in leadership must keep this problem on the front burner because it always tends to slip to the background. 
One of the more horrible footnotes to all this is that there is no underdeveloped country that I know of (we call them LOC-Lesser Developed Countries) that is not spending more on armaments than they are on education and health for theu people. That is really criminal. 
Stewart: With that kind of expendi­ture, what's to prevent mankind from slippi~g into a nuclear holocaust? 

Hesburgh: Well, it's always -a possibility. That's why I've come out for SALT II. People think I'm crazy to do it because there are many people on the other side who oppose SALT. 
The reason is that right now both we and the Russians have the ability to destroy the whole world seven umes over; put that together and that's fourteen times destroying the whole world. Now, the crazy thing is, even with these two countries ability to destroy the world fourteen times over, we're still sitting up nights thinking of ways to do it more often, better, quicker, and more efficiently. 
All SALT II does is try to put a little lid on those effons. It doesn't put a lid on it completely. But it's at least a beginning of some attempt to slow down or put a ceiling on the amount of nuclear arms ... 
.. .1 don't know many weapons man­kind has devised which he sooner or later hasn't tried to use. That's even true of nuclear energy. 
Stewart: Which would indicate to you the likelihood of some eventual deploy­ment? 
Hesburgh: There's always the danger that some idiot will come along and use them. We don't like to think ofourselves as idiots but we're the only country on earth that has used atomic weapons. 
Stewart: I'd like to make a transition here, and ask what you consider, looking back over the entirety of your life, to be your greatest achievement? 
Hesburgh: Well, I would think the one central point in my life is just being a priest, and all that it has meant in many aifferent contexts--relationships with other people, relationship to the church, relationship to secular organizations, the US government, the world. 
I try to do everything I do as a priest, with the concern of a priest and hopefully some of the dedication of a pnest, for the 'kingdom of God, a better world, and also against the dimension of a better eternity for everyone. 
No one in his right mind would presume to say he's been a good priest. That's not to say he didn't try. At least it's been conscious in my mind that there was nothing else I'd rather be. 
So, I think if there's anything worth­while in the years past, somehow I hope it's been in the function of priesthood, even though it may have seemed rather secular-like civil nghts, world develop­ment, poverty, or whatever one gets concerned about. · 
Priesthood is the central core around which the rest revolves. That's the hub of the life I've had. Everything goes out from there. 
Pace: Well, that about covers it all. 
Stewart: Thanks very much. 
Hesbur~h: Thank you both. Tony, Chris, I wtsh you all the best.' 


The Observer -Features Friday, February 16, 1979-page11 
Heroes Anonymous 
Vi 7iiya Honey' Bobelyni: The Huddle's Spirited Hero 
Standards  on  which  we  base  our  It had become quite obvious by this  . "These kids, although I don't like to  Gate Magennis players are just like everybody else .. .!  
priorities are often so blindly misplaced  point in our conversaton that she is more  call them "kids," are great ... they're all  goof around with Montana too!"  
that in the haste of day-to-day survival  than a friend to many.  Granted,  her  crazy like me! Actually, honey, let me.  Her escapades could fill a novel with  
we  lose  sight  of  our  most  precious  wor~  told  me·  so  and  her  actions  tell you, there isn't a single shadow on  each. chapter more  ~njoyable  than the  
assets. Fonunately for the students of SM<;= and ND, there exists a constant  convmced me, but the real sell ·were the students P.assing by. Not a singl~ one  this campus, everybody here shines in their own way. No one acts like he's any  previous one. A glimpse of one page would Ibegin,.·:~ few .years back. a  
remmder that our worth is not equivalent  went by wtthout a good word for Vt.  better than  the others.  The  football  student,  for  rm.uauon  rnto  the  In~h  
to our GPA; that our entire future does  Guard, was reqwred to ask an ugly g1rl  
not rest on tomorrow's exams· that what is ~ruly important is our abilicy to smile, .,enJoy and take each day in stride.  to a party. Well, he didn't want to hurt anybody's feelings, so he. ask~d me . And I went! What a good ttme tt ended  
Vt Bobelenyi, known more affection- up to be! You see, honey, when we ~lfst  
ately  by  most  as  Mom  or  Honey,  got there everybody w.as  just stanc;li~g  
encompasses a wealth that may never be  around--I can't stand still when mustc 1s  
obtained through a certified degree; that  playing, so by t~e e?,d of the night I had  
that  too few take time  to seek.  She  everybody dancrng.  
possesses a sincere love of life.  Another time she was  asked to play  
The other day, I had the opportunity to  Aunt Gussey in the Student production  
sit and talk with Vi.  Indeed it is a fact  of"ComeBlowYourHom!" Again, she  
that her job at the Huddle has employed  was able to help out her students and at  
her for six years and that she recently  the  same  time give  them  reasons  to  
was moved from counter cashier to the  smile.  "All was going well, I said my  
new deli.  Yet in all the persons I've met  few lines in each performance, but the  
in my life, I've yet to meet up with a  last night when I got out on stage I just  
match to Vi.  Her spontaneous smile and  burst out laughing,  couldn't  even  say  
contagious laugh flow witqout restraint  one single word.''  For her performance  
as her words of unrehearsed emotions fill each moment with pleasure.  Vi was given curtain call.  a  standing  ovation  at  
Intri~ued and in awe I sat, absorbing  Every spring time her seniors begin  
her  v1tality  and  engrossed  in  her  their goodbyes their  thanks  and  well  
nostalgia.  "You should have seen me, I  wishes. Often they'll bring their parents  
have had  more  fun with these kids.  into the Huddle  to  introduce them  to  
Some would call me Mom, they'd tell me  their ''campus mom,'' then at commen­ 
about how hard their tests were and I'd  cement  sentiments  begin  to  flow.  
tell them just go get it! You can do it! . . .  ''These kids  mean  something  to  me.  
and they graduated too, Honey. You know, I can tell what they're thinking,  Every graduation believe me, there are tears."  
and how they're feelinR. I wouldn't even  No portrait could capture the beauty of  
have to ask ifthey hac. been out the night  Vi.  VividJy alive,  she embraces each  
before, I knew!" Due to her new location in the Deli, Vi feels much more removed from the  moment, giving to others a chance to relax, a chance to release, a chance to  
students, her friends.  "I like the deli,  enjoy her friendship. "Tell them all that  
but it doesn't allow me to get close to my  the deli is where. it's at!  Super sand- 
students. I don't see and talk to as many  wiches with Vi's special touch-" and a  
as I c:lid before."  smile to boot.  

Some Post-Valentine Deliberations, Poetry, and Napalm 
A Real Fun Story 
Cupid At The Threshold 

I have a friend who thinks of this Valentine's Day as his golden opportuni­ty. You see, he's head over heels (a very abnormal state) in love with an unsus­pecting freshman coed who's walking around the N.D. campus unaware of her grave danger. Finally, Non did some­thing assertive, but not overly smoothly. That's not Nort's style. So, if you saw someone sneaking through the bushes and falling down around Walsh Hall Tuesday rught, it was Nort with a very special cargo. He's spent long hours in the past week studying the style of William Shakespeare's love sonnets; assonance, onomatopoeia, the whole shmeer. But most of all, Nort was fascinated ~y Bill's descriptions of ~s lady's phystcal features. That settled It for Non. By hook or by crook, he was going to show the goddess he's been worshipping from afar his true feelings. 
I watched him as he wrote it, tears welling up in his throat, choked with emotion. I just hope the lucky (?) girl who's won Non's undying affection will realize the effort and thought that went into composing her love sonnet. 
Non's feelings for her are timeless, and best summed up by telling you something he once told me. It went something like this: "She doesn't know I'm alive." Nort's changed all that, though. Now she knows. 
He didn't want me to put his poem in print, because he was afraid the guys would razz him. Actually, I think it leaves a little to be desired, but decide for yourself. Ifyou like it, read it to your sweetheart--it may throw a whole new light on your relationship. 
MYLOVE 
Your kiss is sweeter than Ambrosia, the sweet nectar of the gods tails, 
The Oracle ofDelphi, the Sphinx and the Taj Majal 
Your lips are as the redwoods, their opening a chasm. 
Your nose twitches like my foot half in slumber, a heavenly spasm. 
My love's teeth chatter like the heated squirrel's disgust; 

Joe Ryan 
Her chin's sweet foliage stirs notions of lust. 
Thy jagged teeth glisten as the petals of the yellow daffodil, 
Your bosom's sight will the bravest man kill. 
Thine thin brow besmircheth mme 
obsequious lunar modules; 
Thy swart -complexioned breath ex­humes thine odorous nodules. 
I 
Your eyes beleager the tiny newt without a care 
As he drowns rn their twm pools, choking for air. 
Your coral-like celestial cheeks are incisive to the touch; 


r-----------------1 
California · Valentine 
I wish for you an evening of soft smiles, remnants of our life together. We were physically together for only scatterd moments of the morning, but ever since the dawn came, and the sun shone upon our hearts, we fused-with its warmth changing the early morning mist into nourishment for the coming brilli­ance-our day of existance. 
Yes· Brilliance· 
Innocence is the foundation on which the goddess of your love trickled forth. 
Where do the oceans start? From 
Your fledgling nostrils reveal you love where coii_le the ~ghdy redwood? For 
for me so much. love also ts not mstantaneous, but the , 1 · growth of a mountain; the blossom of 
1 

flowers; the making of a world; an evening of soft smiles-remnants of our life.
See what I mean? 

And Piszkin 
,·:,.,. 
·f./·:. 
. ~ 


.. 

he Observer-Features Friday, February 16, 1979 -page 12 
Ietters to a Lonely God 
The Eye of the Hurricane 
She was a young woman, and she wasn't a fool. She knew what she wanted; at least she said she did. I tried to tell her she was rushing into things that could hun her. She said she was huning now, and that it was the waiting that hurt her. Finally, I got annoyed with the uselessness of the conversation. 
''We have reached an impasse,'' I said coldly, meaning that I was tired of the argwnent. "You will probably do what you want to do, and you would like my approval, but there is no way I can ever gtve it." After an impasse has been reached, the only decent thing you can do is hug each other, and say goodbye. "Please try to understand," she whispered, and then she was gone. The ftnal words made me feel I had lived through a scene as eternal as a passion play. 
Sometimes, as the campus chaplain, I feel in over my head. Sometimes I feel as though I had spent entire afternoons doing something nearly as foolish as uying to trap the power of the wind into a paper sack from the A.&P. There's no way you can bag the wind, even if you knew what the wind looks like, the direction it is moving in, and the games that the wind plays before it blows things apart. 
"It is not just that we want to cater to sexual desire," the young woman had
. 
-

Dave Gill 
PBS (Channe134) 
''journalist's Privilege"; February 18, 6 pm. Former Governor of Massachusetts Michael Dukakis moderates the debate on whether jounalists have the right to protect their sources. 'Witnesses include Daniel Schorr (pro) and Nicholas Von Hoffman (con). 
''FYI: Legacy of Vietnam''; February 18, 8 pm. Now that a decent interval has elapsed, an examination of the fallout from the war is made. Included is a look at the American veterans and how the war affected their lives. 
"Academy Leaders"; February 19, 9 pm. Norman Corwin hosts a look at the art of shon subject films. Included are the ftlms "Hunger," a 1974 computer animation abut a gluttonous society and Robin Lehman's Oscar-winning "The End of the Game,'' an involving view of depleted Mrican wildlife. 
.. 
"Silk Stockings"; February 20, 9 pm. Fred Astair and Cyd Charisse star in this 1957 classic ftlm adaptation of Cole Poner's Broadway show. A forbidding Muscovite woman, Ninotchka, meets her match in an irresistable young American ftlm producer. 
"Monet"; February 21, 10:30 pm. The paintings of the French impressionist Claude Monet, presented without lengthy explanations of his work and allowing viewers to enjoy Monet's vision in their own way. 

... ..,.., lHI'f. l"i. Mol lf-U'Q:'$Sictl ~ C::LAU;I£ ~··· 
·----­
said. ''Fulfilling sexual desire is the least personal part of the relationship. Sexual desire could be dealt with in the arms of a stranger. I just want to feel that I'm a part ofthis man's life, and that his life is a part of me. Sexual intimacy is the comfoning way that two people express the oneness they feel in belonging to each other. '' 
"But you don't yet belon~ to each other completely, •' I point out. 'Therefore the sexual inumacy that says you belong to each other completely would be telling you a lie.'' At the mention of belonging, unages of deeds being signed, and keys handed over, enter my mind, and a picture of propc:rty owners taking possession of thetr house. Suddenly, the sheriff appears with a bill from the bank. 
"Pay what you owe," he says; "otherwise, you're trespassing on property you can't afford." 
I think: "I'm opposing passion with the pale legalisms ofa celibate's logic, and it tsn't fair that I should have to pia}'_ the role of the bloodless heavy." Then, scornful of my own analogy, I reflect: ''What in the hell do I know about home fmancing?•' 
How does a cleric speak to the urgency in a woman's voice when she says: "I just want to make love, and feel loved, with the full freedom to allow the flesh to act out the heart's desire" ? It is humilitating to insist: "I understand what you're saying, dear. I, too, am a creature of flesh and blood. I under­stand how the body pleads to be cherished as a partner in the proiects of passion planned by the mind;'' as though, by God, the cleric had to establish the credentials of his soiled humanity before he could warn: "Cool it, honey, or you're going to set the bedroom on ftre.'' 
The most that the cleric can do is to offer the gentle arguments: "Look here, little love, with the stars in your eyes. Neither you nor the boyfriend is really · willing or able to give the other an unconditional ftrst place in the lives you've planned for yourselves. Both of you have bank loans to repay; both of you have careers you want to start on. I would love to celebrate your marriage: your declaration to the world, and to one another, that you are truly making a union of your lives, with hearts and minds touching more possessively than any love-making your bodies can 
express. Right now, I can't celebrate that union; neither can you, I suspect, or why are you bothering to ask a priest's approval for taking the risks that can break your hearts.'' I know the words 


Reverend Robert Griffin 
aren't adequate. But words are all the weapons that a priest has to use. 
She was a young, woman, and she wasn't a fool. I felt like the fool trying to argue with her. In cases like hers, I Will always argue, hating the need for arguments; knowing the times when the arguments are useless; wondering dismally whether it wouldn't be more rrofitable trying to package the wind. hxperience has taught me, in my twenty-ftve years as a priest, that love is patient. The ~est love, that is, is patient; the love that 1s needed for a bedrock to marri~e. Love is patient; meaning, it trusts uself; it is not impulsive; it does need to rush off madly in all directions. 
Saying that love is patient seems like a washed-out insight when you're dealing with hurricanes. ''Love is patient,'' you yell into the teeth of the storm that new love stirs up. ''Love is not selfish, •' you shout agam. Just when you get the feeling that no one 1s listening, the contradictton is borne back on the breeze. 
''You are wrong, outdated priest. New love is in a hell ofa hurry. New love hasn't got time to wait." 
Your ftnal mood is discouragement. "Why am I bothering," you think, "to be out here on this stupid beach by myself, r,laying games with the elements?· ' 
' 'This Colut11n Has No Title' ' 
''Always For Pleasure''; February 22, 10 pm. An insider's view of the day-to-day activities of Mardi Gras gives way to an intensive study of the music and traditions supporting the annual celebra­tion. Included is a look at a jazz funeral with a brass band blowing dirges to the graveyard and then cutting loose on the way back. 
Movies Off Campus 
Calt{ornia Suite; Forum I. Starring Walter Matthau, Jane Fonda, Michael Caine. Neil Simon's comedy is in its 8th week in the South Bend area. Vignettes of five couples at a reson hotel in California. Mixed reviews from every­one. 
Ice Castles; Forum II. Starring Robbie Benson. The stereotypical plot of tragedy 

Superman; Town & Country I. Starring Marlon Brande, Gene Hackman, Valerie Perrine. The whole story of the Man of Steel's incredible flight from J5rypton and his subsequent role as chief cnme­fighter in Metropolis. I still can't believe they spent $40 million to make it. 
Richard Pryor, In Concert; Town & Country II. One of America's funniest people brings his often raunchy, always funny nightclub act to the cinema. Don't take your;mother to see this one or you bOth may be a bit embarassed. 

Every Which Way But Loose; Forum III. Starnng Clint Eastwood. Eastwood and his pet orang1;1tan go from town to town, fignting and parodying_ Eastwood's sp~hetti westerns and his Harry Cal­lagfian tough-guy image. 
Halloween; River Park. I've never seen Psycho and I can't J?Ut this in a category with Hitchcock thrtllers, but I have to admit, I have never jumped, jerked, or felt a' tense in any other theatre watching any other movie. Be sure, if you go, to be in some· control of your faculties, because you'll need them. 
The Wam'ors; Scottsdayle. No idea e~cei?t. that it's a look into gang wars in btg CltleS. 
The Grapes of Wrath; February 18, 8 
pm.  IUSB  Little  Theatre.  Starring  
Henry Fonda.  .  
Movies On Campus  

Hiroshima Mon Amour; February 17 8 pm. Engineering Auditorium. ' 
Silent Movie; February 19, 20. 7 9 11 pm. Engineering Auditorium. Sta,;.rfng Gene Wilder, Mel Brooks. Not quite as good as Young Frankenstein, but the Brooks-Wilder team does get an 'A' for effon and imaginations. 

Performance OffCampus 
South Bend Symphony; February 17, 8 pm. Morris CiVIc Auditorium. Adrian Bryttan, guest violinist. Tickets avail­able at the door. 
Vegetable Buddies; This week--Muddy Waters with the Vanessa Davis Band, February 16, 1716; lamont Cranston, an R & B band from Minnesota, february 21, $2; Airborne, rock and roll, February 22, no cover. 
Performance On Campus 
An Evening ofDance; February 16, 17, 
8:30 pm. O'Laughlin Auditorium. Admission free. 
Ice Capades; February 17, 12 noon, 4,8 pm. February 18, 2,6 pm. 
William Cerny, pianist; February 21, 
8:15 pm. Library Auditorium and Lounge. 

Hearl; February 22, 8 pm. ACC. The Wtlson sisters bring some much needed female-led rock and roll to duLac. It will have to be good, especially when you consider the talents of the warm-up band, Exile. 
Sports 
Hockey; ND vs. Minnesota. February 16, 17. 7:30pm. ACC 
Basketball [men]; ND vs. Oklahoma City. February 21, 8 pm. ACC. 
---------·---­

~--------·-·~-­
The Observer Friday, February 16, 1979-page 13 
Switch to public transtt• can prove itnpractical 
by the Associated Press 
Americans who leave their c2rs home and take public transit instead to save fUel--as Pre sidentCartersuggested--may find that even if the switch is possible, it isn't always practical. 
An Associated Press spotcheck showed that buses, subways and trains in many major cities al­ready operate at or near capacity. The AP also found that while mass transit is usually cheaper than driving, it is almost always slower and more inconvenient, and is generally geared to those who work a standard nine-to-five day. 
Earlier this week, Carter urged people to use public transit, along with carpools, to conserve energy. And the prospect of higher gasoline prices makes the idea of saving fuel even more attractive to many drivers. 
But will it work? To find out, the AP asked staff members in about a dozen ofits news bureaus who normally drive to work to take the bus or train instead. All except one managed to make it to the office without unusual delays; all reported some trouble. 
Department of Transportation fi~es show that almost 72.7 rmllion people a day commuted to and from work by vehicle -public and private -in 1978. Of those, less than 5 million, or just under 7 percent, used public transit. A little more than 20 percent rode in carpools. The majority -over 70 percent-drove to work alone. 
"There's a tremendous capac­ity there,'' said department elude cities which already have The Los Angeles area has the spokesman Ed O'Hara, referring extensive transit systems -third largest public transit sys-to the empty seats in private cars. Chicago, New York and Boston, 

tem in the United States, afterMass transit, however, pre­for example. During the 1978 New York and :Philadelphia.. But
sents a trickier problem. ''Over­February blizzard, transit rider­all, there is a limited capacity for ship in Boston was 39 percent it still handles less than 3 percentpublic transit to handle additional higher than normal, O'Hara said, of the commuters each day. And 

passengers, with some excep­proving that capacity can be tions," said O'Hara. mcreased in a pinch. "Of course it already is operating at 90 The exceptions, he said, in-the cars were packed," he added. percent ofcapacity~ peak hours. 

Although the snow fall has been heavy the dedication ofstudents to get to class has worn dowfi many path across campus. [Photo by &b Gt11J 
Disco dominates 
Bee Gees top 21st Grammys . 

HOLLYWOOD (AP) -The Gramrnys' 21st birthday celebra­tion turned into a disco-flavored party last night as the Bee Gees and other top disco singers won most of the major awards. 
Billy Joel struck the major non-disco note of the evening, winning record of the year and song of the year honors with his hit, "Just the Way You Are." 
The Bee Gees, a veteran rock ~oup, took four awards--includ­m_g album of the year, producer of the year, pop vocal perfor­mances, and best arrangement for voices--for their work on the sound track of the hit disco movie, "Saturday Night Fever." 
The sound track is  one  of the  
biggest  selling  albwns  of  all  
time.  

Barry Manilow was named top pop male vocalist for ''Copaca­bana,'' his disco-flavored ballad about a fading showgirl. The top female vocalist was soft-voiced Anne Murray for ''You Needed Me. " 
Donna Summer, widely ac­claimed as the queen of disco, was voted the top female rhythm and blues performer for her recording of ''Last Dance. '' 
The best new artist of the year went to a dark-horse candidate, A Taste of Honey, the group whose 
NDFCplans career night 
The Notre Dame Finance Club has scheduled a ''Careers in Finance Night'' on Mon., Feb. 19, at 7:30p.m. in Room 122 of Hayes-Healy. Students interest­ed in the career possibilities available to business majors, are encouraged to attend. 
The program will begin with lectures by speakers from various areas of finance. Following the lectures, there will be a reception at the University Club. 
disco song, ''Boogie Oogie Oogie," was a big hit. 
In country music, veterans Wil­lie Nelson and Waylon Jennings were chosen for best vocal per­formance by a group for "Mamas, Don't Let Your Babies Grow Up to Be Cowboys." 
Nelson, who didn't attend the nationally televised show of the national Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, was also honored as the best country male 
singer  for  ''Georgia  on  My  
Mind.''  
Dolly  Parton's  recording  of  

''Here You Come Again'' won her the best female country performance Gramrny. 
Former president Richard Nixon came up a loser in the early awards. He had been nominated in the best spoken word category for the album version of his televised interviews with David Frost. But Orson Welles won for a recently released sound track of "Citizen Kane." 
In the rhythm and blues, Earth, Wind & Fire won best vocal performance by a group for ' 'All 'n' All" and best instrumental performance for ''Runnin'.'' Maurice White, a member of the group, also won an individual Grammy for best arrangement accompanying vocalists--an Earth, Wmd & Fire recording, "Got To Get You Into My Life." 
In Jazz, AI Jarreau won vocal perfOrmance for ''All Fly Home'' and Chick Corea took best instru­mental honors for "Friends." 
For the second straight year, Steve Martin won the comedy award, this time for his album ''A Wild and Crazy Guy.'' 
Martin delighted on-lookers by clutching the Victrola-shaped tro­phy and shouting repeatedly, ''What is this? What the hell is 
s.;>"
thi 
Other nominees in major cate­gorie5 this year included Chuck Mangione, Gerry Rafferty, Neil Diamond, Barbra Streisand, ) ackson Browne, the Rolling Stones, Olivia Newton-John, Carly Simon, Gino Vanelli and 
I>m. Hill. 
The Bee Gees' nominations 
were particularly gratifying to the 
group because ''Saturday Night 
Fever'' won no nominations in 
any musical categories of last 
year's Academy Awards. . 
Goddard Lieberson, a long-time record industry producer and head of CBS records who died last year, was named recipient of the academy's trustees award, a special honor that has only been presented nine times previously. 
The award is for those whose contributions are too broad to fall into any of the regular Grammy categories and was last presented two years ago to the late Thomas Edison and Leopold Stokowski. 
In addition to a star-studded list of award presenters including %-year-old Eubie Blake and last year's best new artist, Debby Boone, the lineup• for the highly promoted, two-hour CBS special featured performances by host ) ohn Denver and several nomi­nees. 
The Grammy Awards are deter­mined by balloting among 4700 academy members in seven chap­ter cities. A record 52 Grammys were voted on this year, but most were awarded prior to the tele­cast. 
NDHS schedules 
•
tneettng 
The Notre Dame Historical Society will meet tonight from 
7:30 to 9:30 p.m. in the Library Lounge. This month's presenta­tion will be a debate between Marvin O'Connell, chainnan of 
the  History  Department,  and  
) ohn  Lyon,·  chairman  of  the  
General  Program.  They  will  

discuss ' 'The Place of History in a Liberal Arts Education. '' Interested faculty and students are invited. 



l ' 
The Observer Friday, February 16, 1979-page 14 t 
\ 
1 



I 
. < 
i 
I I j 
l 
t 
l l 
-i 
{ 
I 
i 
~ 
I 
l 
I 1 
@1978 Miller Brewing Co., Milwaukee, Wis. 

J 
-_. . .-.--:;;:st.~ 

The Observer Friday, February 16, 1979 -page 15 
reacting to the expressive body by Sue McGury movements on a number of different levels. By the eighth The group Mummenschanz-­sketch, many spectators were loosely translated 'j'lay behind attempting to toss a large orange masks"--entertaine an enthusi­balloon back to the stage where

Masked astic audience last night at the mimes were awaiting it O'Laughlin Auditorium. behind the mask of an eight-foot Andres Bossard and Bernie silver ~riscope. Schurch, two Swiss mimes, Dunng the intermission,
players 
joined by Italian mime Floriana several of the younger members Frassetto .appeared to enjoy the of the audience obli~ingly suppli­performance as much as the ed the mimes wtth faces of

perfortn audience did as they P.?rtrayed multi-colored yam pressed on the development of life, from blocks of black cardboard. 
• primordial ooze to the complexi­Backstage after the perform­ties of modem man in 19 brief ance, the _players explained that sketches. audience mteraction is a crucial The first half of the program element behind the success of the 
mttnes 
began witha single spotli~ht show. Each of the sketches is brought up to reveal a pulsating open to a wide range of interpre­blob on stage. The audience tations running from the whimsi­gradually became aware of the cal to the philosophical. Its 
fact that the movement of this charm is that It can be enjoyed on mass was caused by the three several of these levels simultane­performers. ously. 
The audience was quickly One of the few elements of 
caught up in the spell of the traditional mime adhered to by 
drama and became a part of it, Mummenschanz is silence. 

atSMC 
Schurch pointed out, ''We create our own music with our movements and we are in conttol. A dancer floats or swims with his music. I prefer to make it my dancing partner.'' 
He emphasized the group's need for spontaneity m the creative nature of the four to seven minute scenes. The term "mime" is applied conditionally to this trio, for althou~h their backgrounds are in rrume and acrobatics, their performance ig­nores almost all the rules of the disciplines. 
Unlike mime, the three use a variety of props such as note­pads, rolls of toilet paper--used quite effectively as flowing tears--and a flower and watered paste, out of which they fashioned several innovative masks which they eventually ate. 

The group opened at the Bijou Theatre on Broadway in 1974 for what was to have been a 30-day run. Their success was such that Mummenschanz is now placed fourth in the list of longest running Broadway shows. 
A new theme is being planned for a show opening sometime next year. Bossard explained that their idea was to develop "our own language--we appeal on a basic level to today' s generation.'' If the standing ovations at O'Lauchlin last night were an accurate; md.ication, the message of the Mummenschanz was understood and appreciated. 

Tales in Anterican 
The Special double-issue of 
• 

Juggler '79 
is still reviewing manuscripts for publication. Writing about America of special interist. Poems, stories, essays, etc. 309 O'Shag 
3rd floor LaFortune 

The *
************************! 
* 

Trimilitary Council : wants to start ~ your weekend off ~ Right ~ 
*
~ 

~ * !~ Happy Hour at * ~ : ~ ~ The Goose's Nest * * ~ 
Mummenschanz, the traveling mime troupe performedlast night in 0 'Laughlin Auditorium 
[Photo by Bob GUI] ' · : Friday Feb. lfth i 
~ . * 
~********************************** 
Old Forge proves coldest in US ~ •••••••• ALL ARE WELCOME •••••••·: * 
OLD FORGE, N.Y. [APJ -started complaining this week, mobiles than cars on a weekend 
Every morning Daryl Carman the weather service told him that here,'' Carman said. ------------------I
bundles up and trudges out in ifthe town clerk verifies the town In the summer, it's a typicalwaist-deep snow to check his has more than 1, 000 residents, mountain resort, luring tourists 
weather instruments in this frigid and sends a letter saying so on to the surrounding mountains, 
I1 RIVER CITY I 
Adirondacks mountain hamlet. official town stationery, it will lakes and campsites. And time and again in his 12 change the status of Old Forge to ''I'd just as soon not have the years of dutiful!}' reponing to the an official staion. 
publicity myself, but if the town National Weather Service, Car­But counting the number of has the low in the nation, then 
! RECORDS !
man's thermometers have shown people in Old Forge could depend let's get the recognition.'' that Old Forge was the coldest on when you do the counting. For the record, the tempera­place in the nation, such as this During the snow season, the ture inOld Forge rose to minus 24 I I 
week when the mercury hovered town is teeming with snowmobile Thursday morning. 1 South Bend's Largest Record I 
at almost 50 below zero. enthusiasts taking advantage of "We've got a real scorcher But the television weathermen about 500 miles of well-broomed today,'' remarked Carman. 
I I
and Tape Selection 
always give the credit to some tr::u·1 s. "There ' s more snow-other town, and Carman is get­ting hot under the collar about it I Iall. 
· The problem is, the weather Hesburgh announces I I 
service says a town must have a population of at least 1,000 to be 
I $1.00 OFF . I 
an official reporting station. Old 
Forge had only 850 at the time of council appointments I coupon I 
the last census in 1970. 
Sl.OO ~ff any album or tape with this coupon. Limit I. No~ 1''What the devil have I been I thru March ll. Not good on cut-outs, imports or other saledoing this for 12 years for if this 
Clark Equpment Company and a

The recent appointment of two I items. Coupon must be presented before purchase is rung Iis nut an official station?" asks 
resident of 52677 Brooktrads Dr., 

South Bend residents to the I in.to cash register. 1
Carman, a policeman in this town has been named to a three-year
advisory councils at Notre Dame

which has more sn0"W·mobiles term on the College of EnKifleer­
has been announced by Fr.

than cars in the winter. ing Advisory COuncil. He re­
Theodore M. Hesburgh, presi­1 eND-SMC chet:k accepted for up to S2a.oo over 1
ceiVed undergraduate and grad­

On two successive days this 
dent. purchase amount. 1
week Carman reported readings uate degrees at Fairleigh DiCkin­1 
Robert H. Michaud, midwest el7,000 albums and tapes in stock now! 1
son Uruversicy.f

of minus 48 and minus 47, but 
regional counsel for Bendix Cor­Notre Dame's Advisory Coun­I -.xthy wait to choose from a small selection? still no mention in the national poration, has been named to a cils consist of between 30 and 40 1 River City Records propably has it in stOck I 
news. "That's when I got a little 
three-year term on the Law business and professional leaders 

hot under the collar,'' said School Advisory Council. He who meet annually with deans I oow. I Carman, who gets no pay for his received a]uris Doctor degree at and other acadenuc administra­weather work. Notre Dame in 1951 and resides tors to discuss the development 
I RIVER CITY RECORDS I
But there is a good chance that at 52744 Brookrrails Dr. of the University's colleges, as 
Old Forge will find its place in the John R. Cooke, vice-president well as its Law School, library )0970 U.S. 3l Nonh, 3 miles nonh of campus. Open lO to !0, I news reports. When Carman for corporate staff personnel of and art museum. il 7 ltays a week. 277-4242. . I 
~-----------------­


I -' l ' l ' 
l ' 
-l 
~ ' 
I . 
( ­
I . 
~ ; ; I 
lj 
, I 
I 
! ­' ( 
< 
I( ­
' l ~ 
; l 
I . 
I ' ­' : 
( 

! f 
I 
i 
-/ 
lj 

j i 
p
j1 
r­
<' 
{ 
: l 
I J. 
I, 
.-I 
~ ' 
l 
' 
( f ~ f! 
I' 
W ASIDNGTON [APJ -The nation's economy probably will sink into a mild recession this year, with rising unemployment 
and an inflation rate stuck at a hiEh level though 1980, a group of the nation's top business leaders said Monday. 
Council 
Even as the Business Council issued its pessimistic economic 
forecast, the government repon­ed that industrial output in­creased only 0.1 percent in 
foresees 
possible 
January, the smallest amount in 
• a year.
recesston And Treasury Secretary W. Michael Blumenthal had addi­tional bad news for Americans,
in 1980 
saying\further increases oil and gasoline prices are both inevi­table and necessary. 
''I think the price of oil will go 
up for all kinds of reasons should go up so that we conserve more," Blumenthal said in television interview. 
In its economic forecast, Business Council did not use the work recession but referrt:d 
N.D. STUDENT UNION Presents 

and special guest star E~ILE 
Thursday Feb 22 8pm Notte Dame ACC All Seats Reserved ---­
S8.00 & S7.00 
Tickets on sale at ACC Box Office 
SUNSHINE & CELEBRATION 
~-ND 

ft?I:>JUctfl 1tJ ~ 11 SaJ() ~rn
SMC 
fY~lctu,.lill~ 4ucJit()Jiurn
THEATRE 

ENIOR CLASs 
Pre-Hockey Game 
~  
Happy Hour NICKlES Sat.Feb. 17  0 =  
4-6pm  
3 drafts/$1.00 soe 7&7's  ,.41.  


The Observer Friday, FeHruary 16, 1979-page 16 
stead to ''a mild setback'' for the forecast, feared that an economic percent in the ftrst quarter, the economy that will last over slowdown and slow progress in entire rest of the year would have several quarters of the year. reducing inflation ''will induce an to show little or no growth if the 
A recession is commonly de­impatient government to shift to council's forecast is met. But a fined as a contraction in economic mandatory wage and price con­council source said the economic growth extending at least two trols. slowdown will be mild and should 
quarters. The Business Council's fore­not be a cause for concern. 
"No one foresees -a deep cast for overall growth in the The administration has been setback, cenainly nothing like economy during 1979 is for adamant in its predictions that a 197 4-197 5," said Clifton C. growth of under 1 percent, down recession can be avoided this Garvin, Jr., chairman of Exxon sharply from its own forecast last year, although officials have ad­Corp., referring to the deep September of 2. 5 percent growth. mitted the risk of a downturn if recession earlier this decade. The Carter admirustration is fore­inflation is not controlled. The 
But he said nearly half of the casting growth of 2.2 percent. economy grew by nearly 4 per­Business Council's economic Because the economy is ex­cent last year, a healthy rate of consultants, who prepared the pected to grow at a rate of near 5 growth. 
... Halls 
[continued from page 1) 
we,re c1ose to our g9al". Augusta Hall leads in raffle sales with a 67 percent return and Keenan follows in second with 43 percent. 
As of Wednesday night, the carnival had generated total rev­enues of roughly $17,000 with moderately active gambling tak­ing place last night. 
Dillon and McCandless are leading in carnival revenues with Holy Cross (ND) following closely behind. 
Glen Killoren and Andy Pavelko, Zahm Hall's booth chairmen, expressing the senti­ments of all the booth workers, said, "We'd really like to see a lot of students out this weekend because it's a gook way to suppon your hall, in addition to bemg a lot of fun. '' 
Ken Kraft, entenainment chairman, conunented on the weekend's lineup of talent, ''We've got a really great magic act along with Smith & Co. (a local South Bend band) for Friday night. Saturday will be highlight-­ed by Smokey Joe, a folk singer, and an Irish band called Waifs and Strays with an award-win­ning bagpi{>eS player.'' 
Bob Mono, coordinator, added "We're happy the Student Union dance went well, and we hope the 

Food Sales provide an important and profitable source of entertainment this weekend will revenue for many Notre Dame halls. [Photo by Bob Gillj be just as enjoyable." 
• • . Food sales 
[continued from page 1) a counter, but some operations When asked if there were any were removing items from the such as Stanford, Grace, Breen­actual delivery problems, she room while the operation was Philips, Dillon, and Alumni pointed out that most of the closed. feature a walk-in format similar delivery men have keys to the 
to a small convenience store. food sales room. ''I never have to 
Most managers agree with Planner used to operate with a worry about opening up for Sherer, however, in their opinion walk-in format, but to combat them .. J just have to worry about that most students are honest. shoplifting, it has switched to a stocking the shelves,'' she 
Sherer described the effects of added.
counter. 

thefts at Grace as "negligible." ''We've been where we are According to Schweighart, A few managers are confronted now for two years,'' remarked most of the dorms have the same with the problem of employees employee Matt Brunyansky. ''By suppliers and order in bulk 
''eating up the profits,'· and in moving behind the counter here, quantities to get a lower price. isolated cases shonchanging the we've cut down on rip-offs and He added that at his operation operation. Several outlets have increased proftt. '' soda supplies are usually replen­taken steps to counter the Zagotta pointed out a new ished every four weeks while milk problem. _problem that is adversely affect­and orange juice suppliers renew 
"Our prices are more or less mg his Sorin operation and that stocks every week and pizza and set where that's taken into con­may also be cutting into sales at sandwich · supplies are replaced 
sideration,'' commented Don other outlets. twice every week. Schweighart, manager of Zahm ''I think the Huddle is gonna A panner in the Fisher opera­Food Sales. hurt u-:;," he explamed. tion, Geoffrey Raynor, reponed Mark Razzano, a partner in the "They've (sales) slacked off late­dissatisfaction with his suppliers, St. Ed's Food Sales operation ly due to the opening of the new however, Cf'"1.Inenting, "Individ­admitted, "Employees get as delicatessen. It's only a ftve ual deliverymen aren't very con­much as they want to eat, minute walk away.'' sistent sometimes, but overatl, because the way I figure, it's just Another difficulty that some­it's pretty decent service." that much a part of the cost.'' times plagues campus food sales St. ~·s Food Sales, one of the All managers available for operations is the relationship smaller outlets, sometimes incurs 
conunent agreed that, as a rule, with South Bend who supply _problems with the quantity of they trusted their employees' merchandise. Items in stock. handling of money. Louanne Snellgrove, manager Razzano described his situa­
''I know I can trust all the guys of Lewis Food Sales, commented tion, commenting, "sometimes I have working the (money) box,'' on her · relationship with the our orders are too small to have 
Peak said of his Dillon workers. suppliers by saying, "It's not bad the wholesalers come in, so we 
Customer shoplifting can also at all. We have a pretty good have to wait and then order in be troublesome. At many out­credit rating with the suppliers in bulk, so sometimes we run short lets, sales are made from behind town.'' on certain itelll$." 

The Observer -Sports Friday, February 16, 1979-page 17 
ND wom.en's swim.m.ing underway 

matter of fact, by sweeping UMD last week and timing it with a North Dakota sweep over the Badgers in Madison. That is not to say the Irish could not do any better than fourth, or worse for that matter. There is no sure fire way to predict who will finish where. North Dakota has to start losing to drop any, and that does not 
Fans see the real 'Magic ' Johnson now 
plays exhibition tnatch 
The USA mens olympic volley-Mel Goralski at 272-2444 or any ball team will bring a group of 40 member of the ND volleyball
Irish cruise p~t Manhattan, 86-63 
inch super-leapers in the flCSt team. ... 

by Michael Ortman Sports Wnter 

It is finally going to happen. Since women were first accepted at Notre Dame, numerous efforts have been made to organize a swinuning team for the ladies, but each seemed to fizzle out before it really got off the ground or, rather, into the water. 
However, this Saturday after­noon it's ftnally going to happen. The Notre Dame women's swim team, although not yet even a club sport, wtll take to the water for the first time in an inter­collegiate meet. The Irish will join the Belles of St. Mary's and the DePaul Blue Demons in a double-dual mec-r ~t Rockne Memorial Pool at 2 p.m. 
"I've been here now tor five years," said Astrid Hotvedt, Notre Dame's Coordinator of Women's Athletics, "and during that time the women have tried a number of times to get pool time to practice and haven't been able to. This is really the first break that they've gotten. They had a marginal break a few years a~o but things never matenalized.' 
For the ladies to gain varsity status, they must go through a rather Ion~ procedure. First they must attarn club status. "To be granted club status,'' explained Hotvedt, ''they must first compete with other schools until 
EAST LANSING, Mich (AP) -The grin hasn't slipped from Earvin ] ohnson' s face often this year, even when he and his Michigan State teammates in their drive for a second straight Big Ten championship. 
But the affable sophomore _star remains under intense pressure as the conference race enters the home stretch--pressures from his coach and teammates to lead the squad, from fans to dazzle them pomts, Hanzlik, 13 points, Rich
by Lou Severino 
Branning, 12 points along with
Sports Wn'ter 
and eight assists, and Bruce Flowers, Mark Perry 10 points. 
Assistant Sports Edt/or. Walters led all scorers with 24 
points, but Bruno was the only 
other Manhattan player in double 

NEW YORK--Kelly Tripucka 
figures.

and Bill Hanzlik combined to 
GAME N01ES: The Irishscore all of Notre Dame's points finally got their shooting percen­in a 10-2 outburst at the start of tage near their season average,the second half, leading the Irish as they hit on 50 percent of their to an easy 86-63 win over shots 32-64....Manhattan outre-Manhattan in basketball action last night at Madison Square Garden. 

Playing before a near-capacity crowd of over 18,000, the Irish were outrebounded by Manhat­tan in the first half, 16-6, and only led 30-27. Jo Jo Walters kept Manhattan in the game, scoring 13 points in the frrst half. 
Manhattan used what amounted to a four-corner offense through­out the game, leaving Walters to go one-on-one with however was covering him. 
But the Irish came out with tight defense at the start of the second half, as Hanzlik forced several turnovers, scoring seven quick points in the opemng spurt. 
The Irish built the lead up to 31 points, 74-43, with four minutes left, as Phelps emptied the bench. Mike Bruno scored eight of his ten points during the last minutes, cutting the Irish lead to 80-59. 
Tripucka led a balanced Notre Dame attack, scoring 18 points on five field goals and 8-10 at the on his way to victory like last year, and from the community to spurn the pros and stay at Michigan State at least one more year. 
Outwardly, ] ohnson give little indication of any tensiOn. His effervescent personality and loose-goose style of play remain unchanged. But this season has been a far cry from the magic the ''Magic Man'' brought to Michi­gan State basketball last year. 
the athletic department feels that there is enough sustained interest in the area (neighboring states). 
The team would then petition the Director of Non-Varsity· Athletics who would pass it on to a review board. If all went well, the team would be granted club status.'' The next step up would be the varsity level. The procedure for this is similar but with more documentation. 
The most recent effort to create a women's team was initiated by 
Senior Karen Tweedell. After a 
. . . I 
pre-Chnstmas ?rgantzatton!l meeting, the ladies returned m­] anuary ready to work. Volunteer coaches Jim Severyn and Scott ] essup, graduate students in the College of Business Administration and former Irish swimmers them­selves, have been working with the team every night from 7:00 to 
8:00. 
We've got about 30 regulars every night,'' said Severyn, the captain of last year's varsity· ''These girls really have some­thing to shoot for. It seems that 
people around here often put aown women athletes. Scott and I know what they need to express themselves just like the guys.''
Varsity Coach Dennis Stark, 
who has been instrumental in coordinating the women's 
efforts, had praise for the hard­

''For a moment I was going to appear likely. From there it is a toss-up of a manr. sided coin. If be down, but that's not me," Notre Dame is to continue gaining ground, they will have to win. ] ohnson said as the eighth­Otherwise home ice will probablY. be decided on the last weekend of ranked Spartans, precariously in the season, and that series wtll take place for the Irish in the the title race, prepared for a unfriendliest of territories, Madison, Wisconsin. There are only crucial six-game finishing two things Badger fans up there hate more than Wisconsin hockey charge. . op.r>nents: death and taxes. 
Its obvious Notre Dame does not have an easy road ahead of it, ''People come and to see the but that's what they were saying before the season began, and lookreal me,' Johnson said without 
where the Irish are now.
boasting. ''The last five games, they've seen the real me and the real Michigan State Basketball 

Olym.pic volleyball team.
team.'' 
three meter events will be fresh­man]ane Brown. Following Saturday's meet, the 

• • • WCHA
Irish women will begin · c th · 
preparations 10r err meet next 
[continued from page 20]

Saturday at Valparaiso.-Jt is finally going to happen. To do it, the team Notre Dame has to stay ahead of is Wisconsin. The Irish took a big step towards doing that, three points ahead as a 
they tried to predict who would get the game winner. Weltzin wasted no time in doing the honors ... 1bis is Hockey Parent's Weekend. The Blue Line Club will hold a reception for players, parents and Blue Line members following Saturday's game. 
working group. ''These girls
have shown quite an interest,'' said the veteran coach of 21 years. "I really feel that they warrant consideration. What we have here is the nucleus for a varsity team of the future.'' 
The team will have to do with out the services of diver Betsy Shadley and distance freestylist 
Jeanine Blatt, the two females currently on the Irish varsity. NCAA regulations forbid them from competing on two rosters at the same time. ''Ifwe could have them, • • wished Severyn, 
" ... WOW!" 
The Irish will be led by a number of talented swimmers. Heading up the list of ladies are the Fitzsimmons sisters, Josie and Terri. Their older brother Ed twice was selected Most Valuable Swimmer of Notre Dame's 

~ie Dav~ Launon and ht:S In:Sh teammates can 'I afford to let ettherofthzs weekend's games at the ACC to slip by them. [Photo
by john .Macor] 

... leers 
varsity. Freestylists Kim Parent and Rita Harrington will be counted on in the Tong and short 
distances respectively.Harrington will also be swimming in some of the butter­fly events along with freshman Kathy Latino. Leading the Irish diving corps in both the one and 
[contr'nued from page 20] 
assists .... Meredith has tailed 22 goals and is providing sparkling leadership ... Weltzin and Micha­lek lead Notre Dame in assists with 25, while Schneider has 23 ...The Irish were so confident in last week's overtime win that 
bounded Notre Dame in the game, 30-24....Tracy Jackson was selected MVP for the game, and received an award from the Notre Dame Club of New York.... Notre Dame travels to West Virginia this weekend tot ake on the Mountaineers beginning at 8 pm, Lowes Moore, who scored 40 points in Notre Dame's win at the ACC last year, is back for West Virginia. The game will be broadcast on WSND-640. 

visit ever of a USA Olympic Team Volleyball players are the to northwest Indiana. Team USA highest jumping athletes in the is scheduled to play an exhibition world, next to high jumpers. match at 4 p.m. Sunday at One of the best examples of this Michigan City, in Indiana's spa-ability is 5'11" Rick Nunez of cious 7,000 seat Rogers High Northwest Indiana's LaPorte School Gymnasium. Countv. 
Notre Dame, in its flCSt year of A good example of a develop-competitive volleyball at the club in_g trend, Nunez used the sport level, will play Purdue University of volleyball to develop superior in a preliminary match at 3 p.m., quickness and J'umping ability South Bend time. which he applie to high school 
Members of the ND basketball basketball as the 19 point a game team will be selling tickets for the guard and Most Valuable Player match. Students may buy tickets for the Westville, Indiana Black­by contacting ND volleyball coach hawks. 

~LEARN~ 
• Business in the British University System 
• 
Drama with the Staff of the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts 

• 
Fashion Design and Merchandising 


md many other-Traditional Programs at University of London Colleges 
(e.g. London School of Economics, Queen Mary, Kings) 
~LIVE~ 
in fully-furnished, centrally-heated flats in SaKensington Reservations available for one semester or fJr a full year. 
~RSVP~ 
to the long-established, fully-accredited, coed program STUDY ABROAD, MARYMOUNT COLLEGE, TARRYTOWN, N.Y. 10591 (914-631-3200J 
line. Also scoring in double Solrd defense by Bill Hanzlik helped key Notre Dame's secondhalf figures were Tracy Jttckson, 15 outburst. [photo by john .Macor] . 
--·------------------------·--------··----------------------J 


.• I 


The Observer -Sports Friday, February 16, 1979-page 18 


not score a field goal in the last
.,......-.,,.........,..,.........-:--~5. Tit-or draw 
:!6. Seaw~d 
41h minutes.
27. Rind 
29. Source of 
Iowa, .beatin~ Purdue for the 
Irritation 
second tune this year, moved to
30. General 

( . 
17-5 overall and 10-3 in the Big
movement

I : 
:l4. Carried 
Ten. Purdue, which had won

. ' 
35. Chubby 
seven straight, fell to 19-6 and
36. 
DamM•I 

37. 
Pale tan 


9-4.

l : 

38. Frame of 
Steve Krafcisin led five Iowa 
mind 
players in double figures with 17
39. Long canine tooth 
points. 
41. Stock value 
MSU 59, Indiana 47 
42. 
Soft sound 

43. 
Barrel 


BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Earvin 
45. Depart 
''Magic'' Johnson scored 15 points as eighth-ranked Michigan 

l ·• 
'~ 
.\ 
. ' 

9-4 in the league, scored eight
Yesterday's 
consecutive points to break a 30-30 halftime deadlock as Indi­ana went more than five minutes
answers 
without recording a point. 
] ay Vincent and Johnson each contributed two . points to the streak, which ended with a Greg Keiser making a pair of field goals. 


Molarity 

l 
DOW'T "rn£Y KNOIJ THEY'VE l 
iGOT To HAVE HIJLE5-rr~ A i 
i PART OF LIF£. WH~ WHEN 
I 
r ~ENT 'THERE IN Tit£ FoKTJES · WE HAD RESPECT' ~ RULES 
I 

,. 

Noddy 



I • 
2. Word or
31. Favorite 

Io-wa over Purdue; Indiana St. nips SIU 
32. Sharpen !lurpri~t> 
3. Never mind!:
33. Tantrum 
2 wds.
34. Tie 
IOWA CITY, Iowa [APJ ­
35. Re punish­4. Shade or cr•Y ment 5. Misplace 
Fourteenth-ranked Iowa over 
6. Knack
36. Recollection 
came a 36-p<>int perfonnance by 
39. Supply of 7. Near 
Purdue's Joe Barry Carroll and
8. Dried graaamoney 
9. Eye part 
defeated the 13th-rated Boiler­
40. Oak fruit 
10. Entitlt­
41. !'lac~ to exer­
~makers, 75·72, Thursday night to 
11. Swindles:cise a hone 
remain in the first place in the
H. Strong metal slang 
16. Collect bit 
tight Big Ten Conference basket­
45. r.rew 
-16. Adversary by bit 
ball race. 
47. Dandy 17. Picture 
Iowa let a 14-point lead dwin­
48. Willi sprt't' 19. Invf'stigate 
49. ~lis< 20. Thin frag­
dle to three late rn the game, but 
ment 
the Hawkeyes hit eight straight
21. Wish (for) D 0 W N 22. Combine 
free throws in the final 2:07 to 
l. H1g-.-y"l birci 24. Fak~: slang 
stay ahead. The Hawkeyes did 
State used balance to overcome a 25-point effort by Indiana's Mike Woodson and post a 59-47 victory in Big Ten College Basketball. 
The Spartans, 17-5 overall and 

MINNEAPOliS -Sophomore 
center Herb Williams scored 26 
points and hauled down 12 
rebounds to lead 17th-ranked 
Ohio State to a 74-68 Big Ten 
basketball victory over Minnes­
ota Thursday night. 

The victory boosted the Buck­
eyes' conference record to 10-3, 
keeping them tied for first place 
with Iowa, which defeated Pur­
due. 

Minnesota, which lost its sev­
enth straight game, fell to 4-9 in 
the Big Ten and 9-13 overall. 
Indiana St. 69, SIU 68 CARBONDAlE, Ul. -Larry Bird scored 20 points and Steve Reid sank two free throws in the frnal 14 seconds to seal top­ranked Indiana State's 69-68 Missouri Valley Conference vic­tory Thursday night over South­em Illinois. Southern Illinois' Richard Ford hit tWo free throws with 6:56 remaining to give the Salukis a 62-61 lead, but Bird countered with a pair of free throws 27 seconds later to give Inidana State the lead for good. Bird hit a jump shot with 5: 59 to go to give the ·sycamores a 65-62 advanta~e and 20 seconds later, Carl N1cks, who had 19 points, hit a jumper to make it 67-62. Southern Illinois' Gary Wilson hit a jumper with 4;50 left to cut the lead to 67-64 and following an Indiana State turnover Wilson hit a hook shot to make it 67-66. Indiana State went into a delay game and with 14 seconds left, 
Michael Molinelli 

Jim Canavan 
r---7""-------------. piano; Dennis Brown, cello; Re­becca Zellner, soprano; and Steve Martin, trombone. The Goshen College Orchestra has 65 members. The College's music de,Partment, with 60 music majors, IS particularly noted for its string pmgram. David Hoffecker, the orches­tra's conductor, has bachelor and master ofmusic degrees from the Eastman School of Music and a mster of divinity degree from Gordon Conwell Theololgical Seminary 
Reid was fouled intentionally and made the first of two free throws. Bird grabbed the rebound on the missed second shot and Reid was fouled again with 10 seconds remaining. This time, he missed. the first shot but hit the second to make it 69-66. 
Wilson led Southern Illinois with 16 points. Abrams and Milt Hug~ins added 16 and 15, res­pecttvely. 
Indiana State, which led 38-31 at halftime) improved its record to 24-0 and 14-0 in the Missouri Valley Conference. Southern Illinois fell ro 12-11 overall and 6-7 in the conference. 
Ulinois 81, Wisconsin 64 
CHAMPAIGN, Ul. -Illinois, placing five players in doub~e figures, scored an easy 81-64 wm over Wisconsin, handing the .. slumping Badgers their ninth straight loss in Big Ten basket­ball play Thursday night. 
Illinms rolled to a 40-25 half­time lead in the ·sloppily played ~arne, with both teams combin­rng for 31 fouls in the first half. 
The balanced Illini attack was led by Mark Smith with 14 points. Rob Judson scored 13 with Neil Bresnahan adding 12 and James Griffin and Eddie Johnson each collecting 10. 
· · Michigan 78, NU 67 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -Michi­
gan's freslunan. guard Keith 
Smith led all scorers with ·a 
career-high 22 points Thursday 
night to pace the Wolverines to a 
78-67 Big Ten basketball triumph 
over Northwestern. 
Michigan, 7-6 in conference 
play and 13·8 overall, led .only 
43-42 midway through the second 
half before Smith. sparked a 16-3 
blitz that put the game away. 
Hoffecker to direct orchestra 
The Goshen College Orchestra, under the direction of David Hoffecker; will perform at Saint Mary's at 8 p.m. Sunday in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The concert is being presented by the SMC department of music. The public is invited to attend. 
Goshen College soloists during the concert will be Jane Glick: 
c 
R 
0 
s 
s 
w 
0 
R 
D 
s 
ACIOSS 
I. Stupid person .t. Thick slice 
8. Warble 
12. 
What penon7 

13. 
Political conservative 


U. Salver 
15. Bianrest 
17. Groom on~­
""1{ carefully Ill. Mirth 
19. A•pects :!0. AndPnt 
inv~ntion 
:!:!. ForehPad :l3. Small amount :!4. &hem<' 
25. Tree juic~ 
:!!!. Old-fash1oned parlor glliTI~: :1 wds. 



Mardi Gras raffle return 
20 10 

-(.I . 
I • 
I I I ~ 
'--------­
The Observer -Sports Friday, February 16, 1979 ~page 19. 
Volleyball team 
•

entertatns basketball 
players 
The University of Notre Dame, in its ftrst year of competitive volleyball at the club level, generated a good deal of excite­ment during a 15-12 one game victory over number one seeded and eventual tourney champ Purdue University at the First Annual Notre Dame MIVA Oub Invitational Volleyball Tournament a couple of weeks ago. . 
Among the small covey of onlookers was Athletic Director, Ed "Moose" Krause, sporting his Texas-sized Stetson, and Father Jim Riehle, Football Chaplain. 
Even more important perhaps was the whole basketball team -of the number one ranked Fighting Irish, who had just come from a ftlm watching session of the evening's opponent. 
The brown ball guys took to the action, ftrst with curiosity and 1then with enthusiasm, as the. ·white ball teams attempted. to read 100 miles per hour spikes. 
Tracy Jackson kept asking, "Who's number ftve? Who's number ftve?'' Over on court twO, Rich Parry of the LaPorte YMCA Men's Volleyball Team kept pushing_!Us body upwards of 30 inches off the ground as he hammered on perfect sets. Yes, Parry sports a white number ftve on his blue jersey. Jackson just couldn't believe that Pany, at 6'5", could jump almost 30 inches off the ground. And yes, Jackson did meet Pany. 
Meanwhile, Bruce F1owers and Bill Hanzlik were so impressed with Notre Dame's handling of Purdue, they asked a couple of 
·high school girls to teach them 'how to hit the little white ball. The basketball guys seemed to have more than a little trouble hitting the smaller ball, but their teachers loved it. Wonder why? I guess you know by now that the Notre Dame basketball team won their evening contest against the University of Dayton by a 

score of 86-71. Funny, how everyone ke,et looking at Hanzlik's heavily-taped thigh. Good thing for him, because they all missed his cherry red fore­anns! 
Cheerleading tryou~ 
Saturday There will be an organizational meeting and demonstration clinic for those interested in ~ out for the cheerleading sq to­morrow from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. in the ACC pit. If there are any questions, call Kevin Ryan at R140. 


------~-----~--------------------­


~~ 
I ~ , t. i Sweep puts Irish in 2nd 
i I ' . 
.,; . ' 

' ( 
leers face Gophers _at ACC 
by Mike Henry Sports Writer 

The Minnesota Golden Gophers invade the ACC this ~ ' . evening for the opener of a pivotal two-game series with the \.' Fighting Irish. A duplication of ·, Notre Dame's sweep last week against the Bulldogs ofDuluth, at the time the top-rated team in the nation, would pull the icers into a 
' I 
., second place deadlock with the Gophers in the competitive 
·, 
WCHA. Game time for both ~ I I contests is 7:30. 
I . Herb Brooks' Gophers were 1 ., just about everyone's choice to 
. ~ j 
capture the top spot in the league before the season, and although they trail North Dakota by one point entering this weekend's action, they close the season at home against the powerful Fighting Sioux. Brooks, who will guide the 1980 U.S. Olympic Team, believes the Gophers are on the verge of exploding over the next three weeks but realizes 
' '. they have to do more than step on 

: ~ 
the ice to win. 

' 
''What we have done to date

i ' 
j 
means litte if we do not continue 

., I 
on with solid, sman hockey,'' he

' ' 
cautions. ''I've said many times that you have to win on the road to be a WCHA contender.'' 
''Notre Dame appears to have regained its early season form ana will be ready for us in South Bend. We were fonunate to split with the Irish at home in Novem­ber. I'm not sure we'll be as lucky this time out. Notre Dame is awfully tough at home--it shoud be a great set~es." 
The Gophers have rebounded strongly to win their last four outings after a double dose of defeat three weeks ago in the rarefted air of Denver. They crushed Colorado College last weekend, paced by junior wing Eric Strobel's five goals, four of which came in a 9-2 Iaugher Sunday. It was Strobel's third career hat trick, and it enabled 

PtAYER·PCS. GP Pol!Hn·e· 29 

. : 
Meredlth"W . 28 

~ f 
I ', 
Michalek·C 31' 

! ; 
oeider•W · ji.J

j ·!
l > 
Weltzill~c 30

•I ,I 
. II 
Humphreys~w. 29

I ' 
Ro1hsteio-w• · 27

n 
p 
Logan~w\ 30 
1 
30 
! 
28

,{
' I'·:t 30 
29.·

;( 
him to become one of four Minnesota skaters to surpass the twenty-goal barrier this season. 
Co-captain Steve Christoff is enj0ying another banner cam­paign, as he leads the club in scoring with twenty-seven goals and thirty-one assists. He is virtually a certainty to become the ftrst player in his school's history to top thiny goals for two straight years. Joining the Minnesota scoring parade are fellow third-year students Don Micheletti and Tim Harrer who have accumulated 23 ~d 21 goals, respectively. 
Senior Steve J anaszak who at 5'9", 175 pounds is built along the lines of Notre Dame's Dave Laurion, is expected to see action iq. the goal both nights. This year has developed into one of the top netminders in the league, holding opponents to somewhat meager output of 3.49 goals per game. His back-up, rookie Jim Jetland, has staned three WCHA contests and won them all, limiting rivals to under three tallies a game. 
This weekend's series takes on an added importance for the Irish when you look at their remaining schedule: trips to Denver and Wisconsin, outfits that have dis­couraged past Notre Dame teams in recent years. Even though coach Lefty Smith's crew has sewn up a play-off berth they
realize that a hi h ftnish in the league standinggwill give them the valuable home ice advanta~e. 
And, after last week's tWin­
killing of the lordly Bulldogs, the Irish seem to have recovered from a puzzling mid' season "slump" JUST in time. 
Laurion will stan in goal, and the diminutive youngster is as responsible as anyone for Notre Dame's strong showing this year. He has rejected 86 percent of the opposition's shots, and this coupled with his flair for the dramatic save makes the easy­going freshman as entenaining as the Ice Capades. 

·· 

QJson-W ·•···•·•·······• ·.·. 17 >> ?. I' ' Bbrke"C '27 t. 7 .. ·. 2,4 . ·•· () 0
; ~ ' 
~u~la·O >. ) •••1[ >··Sc············· ·• 5 .. 2•4 ' 0 0 i ' I Nagurski.V\f 27 · 1c. \ 
I d r ·~ :~tr~:~;. ·.:. !~ >i. 

l 
cox~,n ·13 3 ..•·· ····• 
.........· •· 0 •·· .. ..··.· ·.· · .
n.o··.•.·.·.·.··········.············•. ·•··.·.·.. ·.·.·.········.•·
.. ·•••··
........ ..·.•.•·..... ·.~.·.·.··.. ..·.. .. •.•• .•...••••.•.v 
. . (} ····•• ifi'' 
. .·.:·..: 
. NOTRE•DA~t 30.. •. 154 245·. 3&9 2Z3·45fr.., .. 30 4IJ6. •t05·472 36 .
OPPONENt$ 30 . 149 256

J 
., } ) *lnclt.ldes on& benqh minor p~natty 
GOALTENDER StATISTICS

I 
I 
MJN GA AVG RECORD 

· Laurinn '1400 106 4.54 13~9·1· \ ' t:«lsentllal 346 34 5.89 3·3-0 
' . tt 
Senores 70 7 5.98 0+0 

. r ' ( 
Notre Dame 1816.. 149* 4.92 16-13-1 

. i ~ 
0 IRIS 5 16-1 

I 
I o 
' 
' 
i I . I I) 

p..
G TP P-M PP SH GW 
24
23 47 14·28 . 8 () t
17
22 
39 7·14 5 0 4
25
13 38 9-18 4 2 0
23
12 35 25-58 5 0
25
10 35 .JS-30 1 {f 12 18 30 17~37 . 2' 5 14 13 27 4·8 1 0 13 12 
A 25 2-4 1 0
5 15 20 12·24 • 0 . 0 . 
5 15 .20 .< 15"30 3 0 
18 .•....·. 17~34 0 0
3 
8 . ' 4 0. o.
,ts ...········ ·.'.2...•.·· ..,·.·. 4. .·· 
4 
;o ;:;!4 ... ~ : > 
. Srm~h, after shaking up ~e lmes m an eff~n to snap his skaters out ofthetr.doldrums.• has returned to the uruts that cliCked successfully the ftrst .half of the se~on. . The ftrst. hne to see action will most ~ikely be ~e Pangborn Co!lflectton of captrun Steve. Scpetder, center . Ted Welt~m and Greg Mere<;iith. They.~l b~ ~~llo~ed to ,th<; tee by'!om Opte ~chalek s lme that mcludes Kevm Humphreys and Jeff Logan. . 
Then tts the all-freshman lme cent~red by top Irish scorer Dave Pouhn.and mann~d by Jeff Perry and Bill Rothstem. The three h~ve st~led the staid WCHA wtth thetr savry and know-~ow and show no stgns of stumbh!lg over the rocky terram that lies 
ahead. . . 
Defensively, Notre Dame will alternate among .the tandems. of Jeff Brownschtdl.e and J tm Br?wn, John Schmidt and John Frtedmann, and Scott Cameron and John Cox. . All play~d exceJ?tlonally ~ell m last week s op~run~ 7-3 vtctory over Dulu~. 
~e ve had 'good practtce ses~~ons all ~eek ~d ~e re,ad~ to go, Meredith srud. Wed like to end. up among the top two te~s ~n the league, and two ~s t~s wee~en~ wo~d stan us m the nght directton. 
SHOTS ON GOAL. ..Poulin 
continues to lead the Irish in scoring, with 23. goals and 24 .. 

Friday, February 16, 1979 -page 20 

] ohn f!n'edmann an~ the Notre Dame defensf! will ~ave the task of s_topf/ng Steve C,hristoffandthe leag~e-leadtng MJnnesota offense 
[contmued on page 1;] m t. ts weekends crucial WCHA senes. 
WCHA watch 

Is home ice an advantage? 
Some time ago, somewhere along the line, somebody came up with a nice little formula for success in the Western Collegiate Hockey Asso­ciation. ''To win in this league, you have to win at home and split on the road.'' 
Granted, ifyou wanted to pack everything into a convenient little nutshell, it's not a bad formula. But like with most formulas there are times when 
the  elements  just  don't  mix  and  the  reaction  
doesn't come out quite right.  
The Notre Dame hockey team  seems  to  have  

come up with a new formula for success in the WCHA. The elements 1.bout winning at home and splitting on the road? Forget them. Just take two parts highly touted freshman skaters, mix with one pan talented sophomores, juniors and seniors and one part smart coaching and recruiting, place on a frozen hocky rink, drop a puck, sit back and watch the reaction. 
It's a formula that has given the Irish a 15-10-1 league record, a current share of third place in the WCHA, a current national ranking of seventh, and a former no. one national rating. Hmmm, not bad when you consider the fact Notre Dame was written off to ftnish tied for eighth in the preseason poll. 
Not bad? Well, let's <..xaming the record a little funher. Out of its 15-10-1 league mark, the Irish have posted a 7-4-1 record on the road and an 8-6 mark at the ACC. You're not supposed to have a better winning percentage on the road than at home (63 percent to 57 percent), but then again Notre Dame was supposed to ftnish two spots above last. · 
But it hasn't been exactly smooth sailing all the way for Smith and company. Mter posting a 9-4-1 league record heading into the Christmas break and establishing itself as the surprise team in the nation for the ftrst half of theyear, Notre Dame skidded, went into a tailspin, slumped, whatever. The Irish were missing something. 
Was their youth catching up with them? Had the bubble burst? Was it already past midnight for the Cinderella icers? No one was able to come up with an answer. Leftv Smith staned changing things around, and shook up the offense and defense in an effon to break his team out of its slump. Then, gradually, he began moving things back, and two weeks ago, in the second game against Colorado, the offense was restored to its first half form. The Irish have won three straight since. 

Brian 
Beglane 

blahs," said Smith, "and winning like we did both nights at Duluth last week cenainly was encourag­ing. We were more disciplined on the foreche~k and moved the puck around better. Friday night, when we won 7-3, it was just a total team effort, everyone played super. I'm not pleased with rhe fact we lost a 6-4 lead Saturday, but we keep our composure and came on for the win in oventme. We didn't give up, that's imponant." 
Yes, it was important. They were the Irish of old, the Irish that lost by more than one goal only once over the ftrst half of the year, the Irish that scored two ~oals in eight seconds in the final 30 seconds out m Colorado to tie it, the Irish that had won five in a row on their way to the top spot in the nation. 
"Yes, we have been playing better hockey recently," says Smith, "but we can't just settle for that. We have to keep moving, improving. The playoffs are only three weeks away, and we ftnishe the last two on the road. That is no easy task. We just have to concentrate like crazy down the stretch." 
This weekend's series with Minnesota, which is currently second behind North Dakota, could be the last home appearance for seniors Steve Schneider, Brian Burke, Kevin Nagurski and Tom Farrell. It could not, though, if the Irish ftnish in the top four in the standings March 3 and gain home ice for the playoffs. That would mean another home series March 6-7. 
[continued on 
"I would · like to think we are over the

liiliiillllll___ 
:-.:.:: .·. _:·-·.:---::. 
North ··oak~······.···· ~ .. f . 
MINNESOTA 17 8 NOTRE DAME. 15 10 Millll5SOta· Duluth t4 9
Wisconsin  ·  13  n  ·  
Michigan Tech Denver  '  12 11  12 14  
Colorado  10  14  
Michigan State Michigan  8 6  18 20  

:--·.:_-···::::. 
GF. 
. Q.Ai
141···· 
9a
14t·· 
94
138 
122
3i 140 118 28 129 121 26 130 . 113 23 119 148 22 127 153 16 95 152 12 98 151 









