
, , Operas -page 17 

AffairsCofllfllittee, Trustees n1eet to discuss aspects of student life 
by Rosemary Mills Editor-in-Chief and Tony Pace Editor Emen'tus 
The Student Affairs committee of the Board of Trustees met with student leaders yesterday afternoon to discuss various aspects of student life. The major proposal of the day, made by Student Rody Vice-President Bill Vtta, was for the resurfacing of the floor of Stepan Center in order to make more effective use of the building as an athletic facility. 
The proposal was made in response to what Vita called overcrowding resulting from an increase in the use of existing athletic facilties by varsity, club, interhall and tntramural sports. 
"In the warm weather," the proposal reads, "overflow from indoor facilities IS accomodated by the outside basketball courts and volleyball sites set up by many of tht· dorms. This includes the basketball courts behind the Hammes Bookstore and in front of Stepan Center. The problem remains, however, that during the five months between November and April, a major portion of the school year, outdoor facilities are rendered,, useless by the inclemency of the weather. 
Srudent A fairs committee chairman Jack Schneider responded favorably to Vita's propos­al. He indicated 1har it was a positive step toward making some complete use of a good building. 
Although the cost of the project was not discussed at length, Vita said that the lowest possible cost for the project would be $8,000. 
The proposal concludes by recommending that "the responsibility of producing and implementing this program be delegated to the Offices of Student Affairs and Maintenance in conjunction with Student Government." Schneider stated that the Commitcee would recommend the proposal to the full Board of Trustees. 
The Student Affairs committee, according to Schneider, serves as a link between students and the full Board of Trustees. Student initiated proposals, such as the resurfacing of the Stepan Center floor, are reviewed by the Student Affairs committee which then recommends a course of action for the proposal to the full Board. 
The members of the Student Affairs commit­tee are: Schneider, Donald J. Mattews, Paul Hellmuth, Jane C. Pfeiffer, Catherine B. Cleary, the Honorable John D. Rockefeller IV, Anthony 
F. Early, Donald Keough, Fr. Thomas Blantz, Fr. John Van Wolvlear and Fr. Gregory Green. Pfetffer, Cleary, Rockefeller and Early were not in attendance at yesterday's meeting. 
The committee was also presented with a proposal to ammend the by-laws of the campus 
[continued on page 19] 


To fight Title IX 
ND hires lobbying firm 
by Sue Wuetcher Law Caucus at Notre Dame, fellow law student KathySenior StaffReporter charged that the University is Majewski attended the National fighting against having to Conference on Women in the 
Nom· Dame is one of 300 spend money on women's ath-· Law. "Notre Dame is known National Collegiate Athletic As­. letics. "If the University had throughout the country as being by}ohn Ferroli sociation schools that have made a good faith effort in 1972 the instigator of the lobby StaffReporter hired a Washington lobbying (when Title IX was passed) to effort," she said. "It was 
firm to fight the Title IX put'some emphasis on women's _lar~ely ~ue to the efforts o~ ~he The referendum concerningregulations as they now stand.. athletics, they wouldn't have a;> Umverst.ty that the coahtton 
the camp1,1s boycott of Ca.mp­
Title· IX. one of rhe ·Educa­·far to go. They've known since was formed.. Notre Dame is. bell's and Libby's pruducts · tional Amendments passe~ by .1972 that they would have to 'do getting a bad reputation in failed to pass yesterday due to C::ongress in 1972, states that somethin~ by the mere fact 
terms of women and women's insufficient voter .turnout. 
"No person in the United States they admmed women.'' rights." Director of Student Activities shall, on the basis of sex, be Coffin became aware of the 
John Reid had specified that 
excluded from participation in, . lobby effort when she and [continued on page ,12} official University backing of or be deni~:d the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any educational activity r~ceiving,, federal financial as­SIStance. 
Governtnent doubles estitnation
.Joseph Califano, Secretary of the Department of Health, Edu­cation and Welfare (HEW is­
o.f radiation exposure on Island 
sued an interpretation of Title IX in December. He outlined all the areas whe:: schools WASHINGTON (AP) -The area. levels of radation and will face must provide equal funds for government yesterday doubled Califano also told a Senate . significantly greater (health) both men's and women's sports Its estimate of radiation expos­hearing that some scientists risks than the general popt1la­programs, including scholar­ure to the public from the Three "would predict up to 10 addi­tion.'' ships, recruring and "other Mile Island nuclear accident, tional cancer deaths'' for the 1 However, Califano said risk financially measurable benefits p.wmpting HEW Secretary million central Pennsylvania figures had not yet been calcu­and opportunites.'' Joseph A. Califano to rredict at residents living within 50 miles lated. for these workers. 
Adrienne Coffin, newly elec­least one additiona cancer of the stricken plant. The nation's No. 1 health 
ted president of the wo·men's death among residents of the The secretary of Health, Ed­official released new figures ucation and Welfare abandoned showing the total dose received his earlier assertion that the by those living within a 50-mile 
March 28 accident did not pose circle of the plant, an area that a cancer threat to anyone living includes the state capital of
This is the last regular 
within 50 miles of the plant. Harrisburg, was at least 3, 500 Testifying to a Senate Gov­"person rems" instead of the
issue of The Observer. 
ernme-ntal Affairs subcommit­1,600 person rems reported in tee, Califano said it now ap­early April. pears that enough radiation was Califano said he expects an released to cause one additional even higher figure will be
.A special edition will be 
non-fatal cancer and possibly reported in a fuller analysis of one additional birth defect in the data that is expected to be
puf?lished on May J7th. 
the area. completed and made public 
And he said that workers at next week by the Nuclear the plant and those engaged in Regulatory Commission. clean-up operations "have been
Good luck 011 finals I 
exposed to significantly higher [continued on page 20] the boycott would requ1re that at least 50 percent of the undergraduate student blidy vote in favor of the proposal. · The actual turnout was only 
31.5 percent of the undergrad­uate. population. . 
Those students who did vote, however, voted in favor· of the b(>ycott by a narrow margin of 10 votes. The results show that 10 out of 16 men's dorms rejected the measure while all of the women's dorms favored the boycott. 
Members of the Ohio Farm­workers Support Committee (OFSC) declined to spr-culate on the disparity of support be­tween male and female dorms. They did, however, offer rea­sons for the weak turnout. 
"Timing was the problem," stated committee member Rick Coronado. "Students were feeling pressured by exams and papers and many were engross­ed in room picks," he said. 
Coronado also believed that the issue had not been suffic­iently discussed. "I had the feeling that students didn4 t look into the issue as well as they should have," he remarked. Coronado was also surprized at the voter turnout because of 1973 student support of the lettuce and grape referenda. 
Committee organizer Anne Huber stated that the boycott may have been rejected "be­cause the issue became one of 
personal morality and p6>ple got defensive about it." Huber praised the letters which ap­peared in yesterda7.'s Observer that stressed a 'social con­science'' instead of personal 
[continued on page 4] 

News in brief 
Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 2 
Mobil officials propose 
AP -NBC poll shows 
Americans back profits tax 
continued price controls KANSAS CI1Y, Mo. (AP) -Officials of Mobil Oil Co. proposed continued controls on so,me <?il prices yeste.r:?_ay, but they defende~ the company s chmbmg profits and charged that the mdustry was being used as a political football. Mobil President William P. Tavoulareas told stockholders at the company's annual meeting that the oil industry should ''forgo any price increases beyond inflation on oil already under production." However, he added, "We must insist on full market prices on oil not yet discovered.'' Weather Partly cloudy and cool through tonight. Mostly sunny tomorrow. Highs today in the mid 50s. Lows tonight in the low to mid 30s. Highs tomorrow in the upper 50s. Sunday through Tuesday--Fair and cool Sunday and Monday. Warmer with a chance of showeres by Tuesday. Highs in ~he mid 50s to mid 60s Sunday. Warming to the 60s to low 70s by Tuesday. Lows in the 30s to low 40s Sunday. Warming to the 40s to low 50s by Tuesday.  ,I  

 
Friday, May 4 MEETINGS, board of trustees, alumni board and senate, C.C. E. !2:15pm--TRAVELOGUE, "highlights of an o.t.s. course in costa rica," durland fish, sponsored by the biology dept., GALVIN AUD. lpm--BASEBALL, nd vs western michigan, JAKE KLINE FIELD 5:15pm--MASS AND DINNER, BULLA SHED 7, 9:15 and 11:30 pm--FILM, "foul play," ENGR. AUD. 8 pm--ND/SMC THEATRE, "amphytrion '79," O'LAUGHLIN AUD. Saturday, May 5 TEST, certificate in computer programming 303 ENGR. BLDG. ' 8:30am--NSF WORKSHOP, sponsored by smc math dept., ROOMS, 222, 223 and 234 MADELEVA 10:30 am--TRACK MEET, nd vs indiana state CARTIER FIELD ' 11:00 am--PICNIC, sponsored by alumni association for class of '79 and visiting alumni, STEPAN 11:00 am--KARATE TOURNAMENT--ad tae kwan do championships, sponsored by the nd tae kwan do club A.C.C. PIT ' 2 pm--FOOTBALL, blue-gold game, NOTRE DAME STADIUM 7, 9:15 and 11:30 pm--FILM, "foul play," ENGR. AUD. 8 pm--ND/SMC THEATRE, "amphytrion '70," O'LAUGHLIN AUD. Sunday, May 6 8:30am--CHESS MATCH, nd vs indianapolis chess club car pool from morris inn ' 11:15 am--COMMUNITY MASS, CHURCH OF LORETTO 1:15 pm--HOODING CEREMONY, SMC ACADEMIC DEPTS. 2 pm--L' ARCHE MASS, followed by a movie, "the hop of ark," MOREAU SEMINARY 2 pm--WSND RADIO PROGRAM, "anything goes" features best of a new comtemporaty music with hosts barry stevens and raches wells, WSND-AM 640 2:30pm--HONORS CONVOCATION, O'LAUGHLIN AUD. 6 pm--CILA SENIOR SEND-OFF, dinner and entertainment, FACl)LTY CAFETERIA, SOUTH DINING HALL, all members invited to attend. 8 pm--CONCERT, chamber ensemble, LITTLE THEATRE 8:15 pm--CONCERt, nd orchestra, opera and ballet, WASHINGTON HALL  


NEW YORK (AP)-Americans overwhelmingly favor President Carter's proposal for a windfall profits tax on oil companies even if they don't care much fo; his decision to lift price controls on domestic crude oil, an Associated Press-NBC News poll shows. 
The public favors a new tax to keep oil company profits down, and they also blame oil companies the most for higher prices on gasoline and heating oil, accordmg to the poll, taken Monday and Tuesday. 
Their rejection of Carter's statement that "the energy crisis is real,'' apears to lie behind the public's refusal to accept removal of oil price controls as a necessary element of national energy policy. 
On April 5, Carter made the s~cond f!l~jor e~ergy speech of h~s adm_1~1strauon, announcing h1s dec1s10n to gradually lift price controls on old domestic crude oil and asking Congress to impose a new tax on oil companies to prevent them from reaping excessive profits due to his decision. 
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor: jim Rudd Asst. Night Editor: Ann Monaghan Layout Staff: john Smith, Mary Dumm Editorial Layout: Tina 
Terrlaak, Tim Joyce Features Layout: Lynn Tyler, Beth Huffman Sports Layour: Gary Gras·: :·y Typists: Mardi Nevin, Mark Perry, Mary Campbell, Lisa DiValerio, Paula Vernon EMTs: KT and Kim Convey Day Editor: Dan Letcher Copy Editor: K. Connelly Ad Design: Sue Johnston, Chris Slatt •· 
The president argues that 
lifting price controls would give 
greater incentives for searching 
for new oil fields. But now, less 
than a month after his speech, 
the public doesn't accept that 
rationale for lifting oil price 
controls. 
Carter's decision gathered 
the support of only 37 percent ·of the public, while half said they opposed it. Thirteen percent of the 1,600 adults mterviewed nationwide by tele­
phone were not sure. 
But the flipside of Carter's 
decision -askmg for a .windfall 
profits tax on oil companies ­
~rew substantiar public back­
mg. 
Nearly two-thirds of those interviewed said they support a 
new tax on oil companies. 
About 24 percent opposed the 
action and 10 percent were not 
sure. 
One of the undercurrents in 
public opnion about energy that 
lies behind these results is a 
substantial negative feeling 
about he oil companies. 
Thirty-nine percent of 
those interviewed laid the 
blame for higher gasoline and 
heating oil prices at the door of 
the oil compnies. Next in line 
for blame came the oil pro­
ducing countries, named by 29 
percent. The U.S. government 
was picked by 19 percent. The 
rest of the respondents 
scatered the blame among 
other targets or were not sure. 
This poll was taken before 
the government reponed yc:s-
Explanation 
Due to a printing error, a blueprint of the Snite Museum of Art was run upside-down in yesterday's Observer. The Observer re.?;rets this error. 
terday that surges in the whole sale prices of gasoline and heating oil helped push up the wholesale price index .9 per­cent in April. _ _ 
As with any sample survey the results of the AP-NBC new polls could differ from the results of interviews with all Americans with telephones be­cause of chance variations in the sample. 
SMC facu1ty­student art exhibit opens 
The Saint Mary's Faculty­Student Art Exhibition will open today in Moreau and Hammes Galleries with a recep tion from 7 to 9 p.m. 
Art department faculty mem­bers showing their work are James Paradis, ceramics and sculpture; Sister Cecilia Ann Kelly, C.S.C, painting and drawing; Sister Rose Ellen Morrissey, C.S.C., art educa­tion and fibers; Douglas Tyler, 
photography, silkscreen and design; and Carol Ann Carter, drawing, design and print­making. 
The freshmen, sophomore and junior classes will be represented by outstanding works in various media. 
Gallery hours will be from 9 to 11 a.m. and from 12:30 to 3 p.m., Tuesday through Friday. Saturday and Sunday hours are from 12:30 to 4 p.m. The galleries will be closed on Monday. 
After May 20 the exhibit may be viewed by appointment only. 
To make arrangements call the art department at 284-4074, Monday through Friday, from 9-11:30 a.m. 
Photog~~pher: Tracy Jane McAulijje 
The Observer [USPS 598 920] is 
published Monday through Friday ex­
cept during exam and vacation periods. 
The Observer Is published by the 
students of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 
purchased for $20 per year [$10 per 
semester] from The Observer, P.O. box 
Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second 
class postage paid. Notre Dame, In­
diana 46556. 
The Observer Is 1 member of the 
Associated Prass. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 

5:15p.m. Saturday 9:15a.m. Sunday Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. 
It's the Nazz 's last week -this 
year .... and what a week tt..ts ''' ... 
~
F . d 11 Jtm Kotorac 
1 show starts at 10 : 30 I
~~:y ~ Bill Kostelnik 
~ 
1'/ "" 
Jim Speier & Cnmpany 9:00-11:00
Saturday 
Brian McHale Debbie Shemancik:
5/5 
Jim Murray Scott 0 'Hara 
11 :00-close
Mike Kammerdiener 
.A
~ 


LONDON (AP) -Margaret Thatcher's Conservatives, rid­ing a wave of resentment over labor strike, surged toward victory again_ . the governing Laborites this morning in Bri-
Thatcher, 
tain's general elections. Computer projections indi­cated a confortable Conserva­
conservatl.VeS 
rive majority. in the House of 
Commons, with Mrs. Thatcher to become Europe's first wo­man prime minister.
• • h 
Screaming well-wishers mob­
take BrttlS bed Mrs. Thatcher this morning 
and she told them, "I was cautiously opeimistic, now I am optimistic." Her Conserva-
PO}} victory·· 
rives trailed in early returns but then jumped ahead in both the number of seats and popular vote as rural ballots poured in. Election workers, laboriously counting the paper ballots by hand, took a rest break at 5 
a.m. (midnight Thursday EDT) 
The Observer Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 3 
and were to resume the tally at 10 a.m. (5 a.m. EDT). 
At that point, with results in from 500 of the 635 parlia­mentary districts, the Conser­vatives had 248 seats, Labor 240, Liberals 7, minor parties 5. 
A total of 318 seats are needed for a majority. 
Computer projections by three British news organiza­tions said the Conservatives had halted five years of socialist rule by Prime Minister ] ames Callaghan's Labor Party. The British Broadcasting Corp. forecast a 31-seat majority and te domestic news agency Press Association estimated the ma­jority at 41. 
In the last election in October 1974, Labor gained 39.3 percent of the votes and that gave them 319 seats in Commons -a majority of two. 
Returns showed a 74.8 per-

An electorate of 41,093,262 was elibible to cast ballots for the new Commons.. The P.arty that wins the most seats w1ll be asked by Queen Elizabeth II to form a government. Itwill hold power for up to five years, until It calls a new election. 
Few women in moder history have led their naitons' govern­ments. Sirimavo Bandaraike was prime minister of Sri! Lanka in 1960-6~ and 1970-77; Indira Gandhi served as prime minister of India in 1966-77; Golda Meir was Israel's prime miniser in 1969-74, and Isabel Peron was/resident of Argen­tina in 197 -76. 
Callaghan fought an uphill battle smce a vote of no-confi­dence brought about a dissolu­tion of Commons in March. Labor won 319 seats, a major­ity, in the last election, in October 1974. But deaths, by-elections and party defec­tions eventually cut that num­ber to 306, and Callaghan had depended O(l the support of the Liberals and other small parties to stay in power. 
The campaign was waged mainly over the pocketbook issues of jobs -1.3 million Britons are out of work, a 5.6 percent unemployment rate­and prices, most of which have doubled in the past five years. 
Callaghan stressed his exper­ience as a former foreign secre­tary, home secretary, chancel­lor of the exchequer and prime minister, the post he moved into in April 1976 when Harold Wilson resigned as government chief and Labor Parry leader. 

use in office buildings. 
"There's also the possibility of using photo-voltaic applica­tions on street lighting," Ma­hern said in an interview. ''The cities have been trying to get the state to pick up the tab for lighting the interstates as they pass through the cities. This has really been a financial burden on the cities. But it is now possible to install the photo-voltaic cells that convert sunlight to electricity, put a battery in the base of the street light and light the thing with solar.'' 
One of the problems with the photo-voltaic cells is that they are expensive, Mahern said. And that creates a vicious circle. 
''The price is too high be­cause there's no market. There's no market because the price is too high," he ex­plained. 
Mahern noted that the feder­al government already has done a study on how to create a market for the device and thus help bring the price to within the range of average consum­ers. But due to austerity programs, Mahern said, the program has been held up. 
''To what extent could Indi­ana benefit from making such purchases, not only to meet our Immediate needs but to createa market for these products?'' Mahern asked. 
The coalition plans to com­pile a catalog listing solar projects and developments in the state. 
cent turnout, with about 30 million of 41 million registered voters casting ballots. 
Mrs. Thatcher, Dallaghan and Liberal leader David Steel were all re-elected in their constituencies, although Cal­laghan's personal victory mar­gin was sharply reduced. 
Pollsters, bookmakers and stockbrokers had been confi­dent of a Conservative victory. 
Despite teh chilliest May weather in almost 50 years, voters trooped to polling sta­tions in schools and pubs, town halls and cricket ,pavilions to decide whether Bntain should have another round of moderate socialism under 67-year-old Prime Minister ] ames Callag­han and his Labor Party or veer to the right with Mrs. Thatcher, 53. 
"We never count our chick­ens before they are hatched, and we don't count No. 10 Downing St. before it is thatched," quipped the blonde, elegantly coiffed opposition leader, a chamion of free enter­prise, when asked Thursday whether she was confident of wmntng. 
Five opinion polls published Election Day gave her Conser­vative Party leads ranging from 2 to 8 percentage points. The nation's legal bookmakers re­ported heavy wagering in favor of the Tories, including one bet of 20,000 pounds ($41 ,000). Stock prices nudged record highs on hopes that party that traditionally backs big business would win. 
If you"re cominghome to the New York area for the summer, you won't be 
far from a Fordham Summer Session. 
Fordham University maintains three campuses in the New York metropolitan area. 
• 
The Lincoln Center Campus is in the heart of Manhat­tan, one block west of the subways and buses at Columbus Circle. 

• 
The Rose Hill Campus is an 80-acre oasis of trees, grass and historic buildings in the north Bronx. It is two miles south ofthe Westchester border; and has plenty of parking right on campus. ' 

• 
The Graduate Center in Tarrytown is located on the campus ofMarymount College in Westchester county. 


Available Courses 
Our Summer Session Bulletin lists over 300 under­
graduate and graduate courses as diverse as Economics, 
Organic Chemistry, Psychology of the Afro-American, 
Thaching Reading Through the Arts, Shakespeare, Inten­
sive French for Graduate Students, and Statistics. Ifthere's 
a credit course you need, you'll probably find it here. 
Convenient Times and Dates 
There are two summer sessions, one beginning in early June and the other in early July. Classes meet in the day­time or evening, and most are given three or four times a week for four weeks. Thition is still $85 per undergraduate and $100 per graduate credit. 
Send Now for the Bulletin We'd be glad to send you a copy of the Summer Session Bulletin. Use the coupon, or call us at (212) 933-2233, Ex. 570. 
~-----~----------------------­
Summer Session Central Admissions, Fordham University Keating Hall 107, Bronx, N.Y. 10458 Rt 
Yes, send me the Fordham Summer Session Bulletin. 
Current Address: 
SchooiAIIendlng -------------------
AddrHs----------------------­
City___________State_______Zip ____ 
&mmmAdd~ssum 
AddrHB-----------------------
Clly___________State,_______Zip ____ 
Summer Session 
FORDHAM 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Two Indianapolis legislators un­veiled plans yesterday for the formation of the Indiana Solar Energy Coalition to promote the use of the sun as an alternate energy source. 
Jotned by organizer Laura Arnold, Repoblican Rep. Steph­en H. Stoughton and Democrat­ic Sen Lows Mahern called for the formation of a legislative sutdy commission on the issue. 
Mahern noted that the Legis­lative Council will meet Thurs­day to decide what interin committees will be appointed. 
The first goal of the coalition, Ms. Arnold said, "is to reduce non-renewable energy use through energy conservation and s_9lar energy by 10 percent within the state of Ind1ana by 1985 and by 25 percent by the year 2000." 
In the event that a solar study committee is named, Stoughton suggested it should look into the area of state tax incentives that would be conducive to the development of solar energy. 
Mahern said another area of study could be the applications of solar energy the state could 
Securit~y apprehends teen 
in _flashing incidents 
by Mark Rust exposed himself to the team 
News Editor about 4:30p.m. and dashed off in the direction of the ACC, according to Petro. 
Security placed the minor inAfter a quarter-mile foot the custody of his 21-year-oldchase Wednesday night Notre sister, but found themselvesDame Security Patrolman Dan 
Everet caught a South Bend chasing and apprehending the same suspect six hours later
Adams High School student near the Engineering Buildingand charged him with indecent construction site. He has sinceexposure. 
been remanded to the custodyEveret enlisted the help of a of his parents who placed him
group of Notre Dame students who wrestled him to the ground in the care of the Memorial on the baseball diamond ad­Hospital psychiatric ward. 
The arrest followed a seriesjacent to Cartier Field. 
of flashing incidents on campusSecurity was alerted to the this week. As of last night itwhereabouts of the alledged sus­
flasher by Sharon Petro, head was unclear whether the 
coach of the women's tennis pect was involved in any of the tum. The high school student earlier incidents. 
Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 4 Turnout -34.5% 
The Observer 
''THE LUCK OF THE IRISH HAS STRUCK 

Now all Notre Dame students and 
faculty can purchase an Avis young used 
car at a low affordable price. 
Our ''We Try Harder'' spirit makes it easier for the "Fighting Irish" to do so. 
You are invited to our "Avis Irish Sale" held just for you at the Michiana Regional rport the week of May 7 through May 13. 
Just cut out this ad, present it to our salesperson and you will be able to save . save ... .save ... 
78 ·caprices Classic $4895 78 LeMans $4200 79 lMonza 2 & 2 $5095 78 Oldsmobile Cutless $4895 79 Monza Coup $4595 

A reduction of $150.00 on the above prices·will be offered to any Notre 
Dame student. 
This $150.00 discount is good for the week of· May 7-13 

Here ·are some Avis used car benefits you should lcnow about. 
• Some of the best prices around on fuly-powered, late-model cars. e YoU can choose from the pick of the Avis rental fleet. e Most with air cond"lfioning, automatic transmission, power brakes, 
power steering, AM radio. e ALimited Power Train Warranty of 12,000 maes or 12 months-whichever comes first-covers parts and labor and is honored coast to coast. e An Avis Aut~biography· -a diagnostic Autosense® computerized print­out that compares many vital electrical and performance areas to the velicle's original specifications. 
Michiana Regional Airport 234-0664 
EJm© 1979 Avis Rent A Car System, inc., Avis® 
COOt 

• • Boycott 
[continued from page 1] 
obli~ation. 
0 SC member Mary Hawley exa,ressed optimism despite the fa1 ure of the referendum. "I'm not surprised we didn't Ret a majority," Hawley said, 'con­sidering only 55 percent of the student body voted in the student government elections." Hawley emphasized that the committee'·s main purpose was 
education.  ''At least  we  ~t  
students  to  think  about  t  e  
issue," she noted.  

Huber comalained that her committee ha been restricted in its efforts by the numerous guidelines involved in the ref­erendum procedure. More­over, she mentioned that at least one of the dorms which her committee inspected during voting hours was late in setting up the ballot box. 
''The rules for us seemed to be more ri~d than the rules for them," Hu er said. 
A large rmajorityr of graduate students also came out in favor of the boycott although their votes are ineligible accordi~ to referendum regulations. ary McCann, who represented the graduate students on the issue, stated that "the crad students wanted to show t at they want to get involved and don't want to e left out of such issues.'' 
All of the OFSC members stressed that their agitation in support of the farm workers was for from over. "It's not something we'reI-foing to dropnow,'' remarked awley. ''The referendum wasn't a make-or­break for any of us," she stated. ''It was just an experi­ment this time. " 
Yes-50% 
AL 
BA 
BP 
CAR 
CAY 
DI 
FA 
FI 
FL 
GR 
HC 
HO 
KE 
LEW LY MO PA 
STED 
so 
ST WA 
ZA 
oc 
TOTAL 
GRADS 
YES  NO  
34  68  
47  23  
36  33  
44  26  
31  52  
41  45  
36  15  
24  50  
74  76  
72  69  
40  33  
39  70  
80  103  
78  47  
43  29  
57  49  
49  45  
54  19  
31  44  
61  95  
59  28  
46  86  
54  15  
1130  1120  
144  11  

No-50% 
OTHER 
1 
2 
1 
6 
TOTAL 
102 
70 

69 
70 
83 
86 
51 
74 
150 
-, 
142 
73 
110 185 125 72 106 94 73 76 156 87 
13, 69 2256 

An insufficient amount of students placed their ballots in the boxes yesterday to even give the 50% majon'ty to pass the referendum. [photo by Tracy jane McAulzffeJ 

(:()ll~~~S--~~--------------F_rhla_y,_M_~_4,_19_79~-p-~e_s 
Gamecocks announce plans 
Miners reject UMW representation, 
for new computer complex 
stage demonstration during elections 
COLUMBIA, South Carolina -The University of South STEARNS, Ky. (AP)-Miners however, that the order re­strikers dug foxholes rimmedCarolina is planning on building a six-story computer center at Stearns Mining Co.'s embat­quired only peaceful picketing with :sandbags in the surround­to be completed in 1982. according to the Gamecock. Only tled Justus mine yesterday and had no legal bearing on the ing hills.
trained personnel will be allowed to use the building and not unanimously rejected represen­election. The scene resembled aclasses will be held there, stated USC vice president of tation by the United Mine A number of state police battlefield, with the tops ofoperations. He continued that there will be not comparable Workers unton, which pulled cruisers were visible Thursday trees shot away, hundreds offacility in South Carolina. 
its men off the joh almost three afternoon after a morning rock­bullet holes in nearby build­years ago. throwing incident involving ings, adn thousnads of rounds 
About 150 demonstrators about 150 protesters near the of spent ammunition scattered hurled rocks and insults at cars mine entrance. The protesters in the trenches. entering the mine compound also apparently chased off a A violent clash 10 October for an election to settle one of television crew before dis 1977 between state police and 
Kent State to require 
$1 00 deposit for parties 
the longest UMWstrikes m banding. strikers led to 80 arrests. The history, a dispute that often Several cars were damaged, confrontation began when sixKENT' Ohio-A hallowed ritual at Kent State may become sparked gunfights between atithorities said, but no injures miners formerly employed armuch more expensive, according to the Dazly Kent Stater. 
strikers and hired guards. were reported. Stearns crossed the picket lineThe ritual is the block party. According to the proposal in None of the 60 s~riking UMW Word of a tentative settle­to work in the mine.
front of the Kent City Council there will be new party members eligible to vote took ment, announced 12 days ago, Since then, the number ofguidelines. The guidelines call for a minim~m $100 deposit part in the election and the was greeted with criticism from miners returning to work hasbefore each party. The depo~ity would be refunded after the workng mmers chose to be the UMW pickets, who termed grown to 39. They, along withparry, after all costs of cleantng up and damages have been represented by the Justus Em­the agreement "a farce." 60 UMW pickets and 71 "re­paid. Someone over lH must sign for each party. People wh ployees Association. The often violent strike, placement" miners hired sincecause nuisances can be prosecuted. The new policy stems Jim Ferree of the National which UMW President Arnold the strike began, were eligiblefrom an outbreak of unruliness last spring. 
Labor Relations Board in Cin­Miller once called the union's to vote in yesterday's election. cinnati said the vote was 110-0 top organizing priority, began Most replacement miners are for the fustus Employees Asso­after Blue Diamond Coal Co. of members of the] ustus Employ­
Colorado students celebrate 
ciation to represent the miners Knoxville, Tenn.,. parent com­ees Association, a group m labor negotiations. The pany of Stearns, would not formed last year and immedt­assoetatton was formed last agree to the terms of the UMW ately recognized by Blue Dia­
Alfred Packer Day 
year by employe'es hired by contract. mond. Stearns after the strike began at Gunfire was frequent in the the southe'astern Kentucky first year of the strike. SeveralBOULDER, Colo. (CH) -The annual Alfred Packer Day 
KofC
mme. men were wounded, including acelebration was held recently on the campus of the University Pickets at the mine entrance, UMW picket and seven guardsof Colorado. Packer, in case you don't recall your Colorado who walked off their jobs in hired to protect the mine. The 
holds disco
history, was the only man ever to be convicted of cannibalism July 1976, said they were only fatal shooting occurred ain the U.S. He ate several of his companions after becoming forbidden to enter company year ago when a non-striking The Knights of Columbus willlost in a mountain blizzard in 1874. 
property under terms of a miner was shot from ambush on sponsor a disco dance tonightEvents held in the campus Packer Grill, named after the temporary restraining order is­his way home from work. from 9 to 2 in the Knights ofcannibal of course, included a meat throw, a pin-the-bone­sued in October 1977 b¥ The company guards fortified Columbus Hall. Admission ison-the-mouth contest and a singing of "The Ballad of Alferd themselves in bunkers at en­$1. Members will be admitted
McCreary Circuit Judge J .B. Johnson. The judge said, trances to the mine and the free. 
Packer." Tee-shins proclaimed the slo!?an of this year's 
event: "Keep your eyes on your thighs.' 
! ~~It~~+~ ' !• 
: .~ ~ --: 
: 6600 N. Sheridan Rd. Chicago : 
! STINKER'S PUB~ ! 
. .
• 
~~~ • : comes to the :
• i• 
~ [ GOOSE'SNEST J 
: Friday May 4 3-6 pm Drafts 3 for $1 Mixed Drinks 60~ : 
: First 100 N.D. students receive gift coupon to STINKER'S PUB : 
• aho e 
: Information will be given about N D. Party during the summer at STINKER'S PUB. : 
• 
: Manager GREG KELL of STINKER'S PUB at .door : 
-~ ----~~~---~ ~--.--~~----------~ 
---~~-­
The Observer Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 6 
LOCATED AT 
254 DIXIEWAY 
NORTH, ROSELAND 
MON. thru THURS. 
9 A.M. to 10 P.M. 
FRI. & SAT. 
9 A.M. to 11 P.I. 
PHONE 272-2522 
~~ 
BRING IN THE LOW, lOW PRICES 



MILLER LITE 
24-12 OZ. CANS , 
-&39 
MILLERS 
24-12 OZ. CANS 
629 
Dl GIOVANNI 
IMPORTED ITALIAN 

_,\I(N.. WINES
-;N"\' 
• LAMBRUSCO 
• ROSA 
• BIANCO 

79 
750 ML 
-~ 
. 
~ 
INTRODUCTORY OFFER ONLY 
PABST 
BLUE RIBBON 
24-12 OZ. CANS 
579 
BUDWEISER 
24-12 OZ. CANS 
629 
STROHS 
24-12 OZ. CANS 
649 
OLD 
1
MILWAUKEE·D· · 
24-12-0Z. CANS 
539 
.... h.""'.. 
AT KINGS CONVENIENCE STORES ONLY DERBY WEEK 
~ BEER SPECIALS
3--~, 24 LOOSE-12-0Z. CANS 

MILLERS -------­__ -­_______MILLERS LITE __ __ __ ___ __ __ __ _  6.29 6.39  
BUDWEISER  - _ _ __ ___ _ __ __ __ __  6.29  
FALSTAFF  -­ __ _ __ _ ____ ___ __ _  4.89  

GOEBELS ------------FOUR &·PACK CANS 4.99
HAMM'S ___________________ 5.99 CARLING$ BLACK LABEL _______ 4.99 
BLATZ _____________________ 5.99 
OLYMPIA------------------6.99 
PLUS MANY MORE LOW, LOW BEER SPECIALS! 
• Dl GIOVANNI LAMBRUSCO ••• _•• 1so Mt 1.79 
• GILBEYS GIN ................. I.75Hra9.45 
• GORDON~ VODKA •• -a •••••• -uSLTR 9.61 
• TANQUERAY ................. ~I.?SLTR 14.16L1725 N. IRONWOOD • 1426 MISHAWAKA AVE. 
2934 E. M~KINUY • 4401 S. MICHIGAN 
PR!CE!i GOOD WHILE QUAIIITJTIES !.AST-750 ML REPLACES l.'Sth. 
1.75 LTR. REPLACES '11 GA.-PlliCES GOOD TNRU MON. MAY 7 
WE NOW ACCEPT MASTER CHARGE AND VISA AT ALL LOCATIONS 
The Observer Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 7 

Labor Department reports 
Wholesale prices rise .9 percent 
WASHINGTON (AP)­wholesale prices declined in April for the first time in eight momhs, but not enough to offset hefty price increases in other goods such as gasoline and home heating oil, the government said yesterday. 
As a result, wholesale prices in April rose .9 percent, the Labor Department reported. 
It was the smallest rise so far this year, but still far in excess of the rate needed to pull inflation below 10 percent. The April increase, if continued for a year, would l?roduce an 11.5 percent boost m prices at the wholesale level. 
The Afril rise followed in­crease o one percent in the preceding months and 1.2 per­cent in January. 
Wholesale food prices, which. have been rising smce Septem­ber, fell . 3 percent in April. The drop likely will be seen in · retail pnces in supermarkets in future months, especially for pork, coffee, fresh vegetables and poultry, said Lyle E. Gram· ley of the presidenr's Council · of Economic Advisers. 
The prices of non-good goods rose 1.3 percent in April, the largest since October 1974. when the economy was sinking into recession. 
Gasoline prices rose 4.4 per­cent, "the ninth consecutive monthly increase in excess of one percent,'' Labor said, gas prices at the wholesale level have risen nearly 10 percent so far this year and in April stood 25 percent ahead of April 1978, figures indicated. 
Meanwhile, the price of home-heating oil jumped 6. 7 percent in April, for a 12.9 percent increase so far this year. 
Petroleum product prices have been on the rise since last fall because of domestic supply imbalance, the Iranian produc­tion cutback and higher charges from Mideast producers. 
President Carter's proposal to decontrol domestic crude oil prices likely will push fuel costs even higher in the months ahead. 
"There's a wee ray of cheer from the leveling of food prices. which had been expected," said Commerce Department economist William Cox, "But energy prices have come along to bedevil us just as food did.'' 
He added that although the April wholesale price rise was the lowest since November, "We have to make a lot more progress than that before any­one is going to relax.'' 
The wholesale price changes were reported in the Labor Department's Producer Price Index for finished goods . those which are ready for sale to the consumer. 
The department said the index in April stood at 211.2 percent of the 1967 average of 100, meaning that gods priced at $100 then had increased in price to $211.20 last month. 
The price increase since April 1978 was 10.3 percent. Meanwhile, the Commerce Department announced that the 
U.S. merchandise trade deficit was $6.2 billion for the first three months of 1979, com­pared with $6.4 billion in the first quarter of 1978. 
''The deficit was the smallest 
since  the  fourth  quarter  of  
1976,"  the  report  said,  "and  
reflected  a  larger  increase  in  

efforts than in imports. 
Terrorists attack party office 
ROME (AP) · In a daring daylight attack a month before elections, terrorists raided the Rome headquarters of the dominant Christians Democrat Party yesterday, exploded bombs in the building and escaped after killing a police officer and wounding two others critically. · · 
They fled into the narrow, cobblestone streets of down· town Rome after the mid morning attack on the building six blocks from Piazza Navona, a popular tourist spot. 
The gang, which may have numbered as many as 15 members, scrawled the five· pointed star symbol of the Red Briga~es, lraly's WQSt fe!lred terronst gang, on the walls inside and sr.rayed in red. 3-4. The vote is viewed as a letters: "We wtll tram.form the referendum on whether the electoral fraud into a class strong Communist Party should way." get a place in the government. 
In March.,. 1978 the Red The Christian Democrats have Brigades kidnapped Christian refused them a Cabinet spot up Democrat Leader Aldo Moro to now in this NATO country. and left his bullet· ridden body Former President Giuseppe in downtown Rome May 5. Saragat called yesterday's Yesterday's attack came two attack "civil war" and the weeks after a powerful bomb communist Party denounced it destroyed the portral of Rome's as an attempt to disrupt the Michelangelo-designed city hall election campaign and create a on the Capitoline Hill. There ''Guerilla climate.'' were conflicting claims to Eyewitness accounts said the responsiblity, both from the terrorists armed with sub­right and left extremes, for that machine guns and silencer­incident. equipped pistols struck around 
The attacks heightened fears 9:45a.m. of widespread violence during They first disarmed and the poliucal campaign leading handcuffed two policemen on up to General elections June security detail outside the 
building near the Tiber River, 
then went u_p to the first floor campaign offices of the party.
SPECIAL BULLETIN 
TH£ UNIJfERSrrY OF NOTRE DAME 
Law School to present
April 30, 1979 
special night 
The Notre Dame Law School
FINAL EXAMINATIONS 
will present "Lawyer's Night" on Tuesday, May 8 at 7:30p.m.
Final examinations for the Spring Semester, in room 101 of the Law School 1978-79 will be held at the University from 
Building. A local attorney will
8:00 a.m. Wednesday, May 9, through 12:30 p.m. 
be present to discuss various
Tuesday, May 15. No examinations are to be scheduled for Sunday, May 13, 1979. In the 
facets of the law. 

The inconvenience behind Washington Hall is caused by the new sewer line that was being installed. [photo by Trac:v jane McAulzffe] 
WHAT? OBS€RV€R QaRty 
WHERE? CjiUSS€p€'S 
WHO? att OBS€RV€R 
Sta~~ IOVIt€0 ' 
WHEN? sat may 5 9:00pm-? 

%Xi BEER & PIZZA 
van will leave MAIN Circle at 9:30, 10, 
& 10:30 

event 
that two (2) examinations are scheduled in conflict according to the published examination schedule, or 
ATTENTION 
that more than two (2) examinations are scheduled on the same day or more than three (3) examinations are scheduled in a 24-hour period, or 
ALL SOPHOMORES 
that an emergency absence or illness 
makes it impossible to attend an 
examination when scheduled, 
Order your rings before you leave for sumn1er holidays. 
please contact the Office of the Registrar, Room 215 Administration Building, prior to the start of the examination so that you 
Hours: 9:00am to 4:30pm Mon.-Fri. 
may be assisted in making the necessary arrangements. 
in office on first floor of 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME 
~ 
Richard J. Sullivan Registrar 
BookstOR€ 


The Observer Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 8 
The Hesburgh ·Papers reveals the· private thoughts ):and be­hind-the-scenes events of one of the most influential men in 
' ' 
religion and education. 
''Fathe.-Hesburgh's wise and penetrating observations on the issues in higher education should kave their mark on 1 all who recognize the importance of maintaining humane values in our educational structwe." 
''{This book} should be read by all who want to know not only where Americans are but where we should 
'be. " 
-Congressman John Brademas, House 
. .bJ.1 
Majority Whip .11 
In a national news magazine's 1978 poll of influential Americans, the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh finished second in influence with­in the field of religion and third in educa­tion. In The Hesburgh Papers he traces some of the often controversial stances that have brought him such renown. 
$12.95 (cloth) 
._ytnbews aniMc~t(One. 
A Universal Press Syndicate Com party 
6700 Squibb Road, Mission, Kansas 66202 
"····.·· """~---------------.--------------­
~ ' 



' 
·l 
The Observer Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 9 

~--·-------­
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~
-

Senior class chooses Califano as speaker, Dunne as Fellow-
by Don Schmid 
been on the list of possible success," he added. StaffReporter speakers.'' he added. Dunne was selected from a Fr. John Dunne, has been number of nominees from such 
Joseph A. Califano, Jr. Sec­
selected as the 1979 Senior diverse fields as entertainment, 
retary of Health, Education, 
Class Fellow and will address literature, broadcasting, and 
and Welf:::.re, has been named 
the class some time before athletics, according to Fair. 
the commencement speaker for 
commencement weekend. Dunne is tentatively scheduled 
Notre Dame's 134th graduation 
Dunne is one of America's to address the seniors at a 
exercises to be held on May 20 
leading theologians and has Senior Fellow Banquet between at 2:00 p.m. 
been a member of the faculty at May 13 and 15. Califano will receive a doctor Notre Dame since 1957. According to Fair, Dunne 
of laws, one of eleven honorary Dunne also served as a was selected not only because degrees to be awarded by the visiting professor at Berkeley he is a great success, but, more University at commencement. and Yale. He received his importantly because he is a As the Secretary of HEW, Cali­bachelors degree from Notre great person. fano controls the largest de­Dame in 1951 and completed ''As Notre Dame graduates partment in the U.S. govern­his doctorate in sacred theology become successful, a certain ment with more than one in 1958 at the Gregorian Uni­morality •enters; as to what type million employees and a budget versity in Rome. of person that graduate will of over 182 billin11 dollars. In 1960, Dunne received a become. Fr. Dunne provides a 
Rockefeller Foundation Grant very good example of what the
After attending 1-;Ioly Cross 
to research and write his first graduating senior should strive
College, Califano received a 
book, The City ofthe Gods. He for," Fair commented. 
Harvard law degree with 
has also had several articles
honors in 1952. Califano served 
appear in national publications. 
in the Department of Defense 
Senior Fellow Committee 
NEW CARS
under President Kennedy and 
member Gary Fair said,
later became President 
For Notre Dame
"Father Dunne has not only
Johnson's chief domestic aide 
excelled in the area of theology, 
and
in 1964. 
he is an outstanding person. Fr. 
SMC Graduates.
Commenting on Califano's 
Dunne has extended himself 
selection, senior class president beyond his own primary field of Jerry Castellini said, " I don't interest.'' 
Need a new car,
know who they had to pick ''Fr. Dunne has distin­froq1, but he should be a very guished himself through his 
but low on dough?
colorful speaker. He's okay contribution to society, lack of with me." selfishness, anc-1 fellowship. 
Well, it's possible! 
''I asked if the Pope could Hopefully, he'll inspire some­come, but he must not have one towards a greater 
My Name is Van Rench, let me show you HOW.
Mondale visits Gary to push for mayor Call me at B~sney Ford 
Gary, Ind. (AP) -Vice Presi­fore the reception, Mondale small beef herds -are otuside less depet.dent on imported oil, 
291-6910
dent Walrer F. Mondale came mentioned the fact that Hatcher the federal government's con­but it wtll take some time tor 

to this northern Indiana city had been offered a job last year trol. results to be shown, he added. yesterday w push strongly for as counseor to the president on "The administration can't Mondale said the Carter ad­the re-election of Mayor Rich­minority affairs, but had turned control the prices of the oil-pro­-ministration inherited a low ard G. Hatcher, who faces a it down. ducing nations," Mondale said. beef supply and that this stiff primary election challenge ''He loves this city,'' Moo­The federal government is situation will also take time to next week. dale said of Hatcher's decision taking steps to make the nation turn around. 

to turn down the job so he could Mondale defended his in­continue as Gary's mayor.
volvement in the Democratic Mondale praised Hatcher for primary contest, saying, I what he said was creative use ofam an old friend of Dick federal money to build up theHatcher's. I consider him one city and pointed to plans toof the best mayors in the renovate an old hotel for apart­
nation." Next Tuesday's primary pits ments for the elderly and a 
proposed multimillion dollar
Hatcher against former Gary city controller Jesse Bell. Bell, civic center as examples. a close aide of Hatcher's during Mondale said the Carter the mayor's first term, is con­administration has taken steps sidered a strong challenger for to aid cities such as Gary, the nomination. Hatcher is Inclding moves to make domes­seeking his fourth term. tic steel more competitive with 
Speaking at a fund-raising foreign imports. Steel mills are dinner at the Gary Career the major employers in Gary. Center, a vocational high Mondale also said federal school, Mondale said of Hatch­programs to reduce unemploy­er, "He is more than just the ment have helped Gary. mayor ofGary. He is one of the "In Gary, while it's still too most respected and most listen­high, it's down 25 percent," the ed to mayors in this country vice president said, comparing today. the city's unemployment rate 
"Dick Hatcher is doing his today to its 1976 level. He did job. He belongs to that old not elaborate. brand of progressi'e politics I Mondale also predicted that 
was reared in. Send this inflation will be brought under remarkable man back to this control but admitted, "We're 
office he deserves,'' Mondale going to have a few more said. months of bad news." He said Mondale also used the dinner two of the major contributors to 
to promote the Carter adminis­inflation -high oil prices and 
tration and said it has been much more responsive to the needs of cities than its Republi­can predecessores, He cited as 
Comp tickets 
examples federal economic development aid to cities and new and expanded programs to made develop jobs for urban youth. 
Those attending the fund­raising reception and dinner available paid $50 apiece. The cost of the dinner alone was $20 per per­·Complementary tickets for 
son. Saint Mary's College com­Mondale flew directly froln mencement exercises will be 
Washington, D.C. to Gary ana distributed Monday from 11 had no otlwr stops scheduled a.m. to 2 p.m. and Tuesday before returning to the nation's from 6 to 8 p.m. in the LeMans 
capital. lobby. Tickets for any meal cap In remarks to reporters be-be purchased at that time. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------__. 

. obi~ 
OffiaJth Pizia 
and other 
Good Things 
CORNER OF, GRAPE ROAD & CLEVELAND ACROSS FROM THE NEW UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
Call ahead for faster service or directions 
277-5300 Sunday Beer is Here! 
,, 
r-sLoo-;H~-;i;g-;-J;;;l 
I d. h S.. ·1· p. f I
1 ts tct tan tzza. I 
I one coupon per order exp 5/20/79 .II
L--------------------­

The Observer Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 10 



t 
r 
I 
STUDENT UNION 
****REFRIGERATOR PICKUP **** 
SATURDAY, MAY 5, 
NoRTH QuAD
Dorm Pickup Planner-Grace Planner BP-Farley Farley Keenan Keenan Stanford-St Eds Keenan Cavanaugh-
Zahm Keenan 
SouTH QuAD 
Dillon-Alumni Fisher-Pangborn Lyons-Morrissey Walsh-Sorin 
Howard-Badin Lewis Holy Cross 
Alumni 
1979 
Time 9:00-10:00 9:00-10:00 9:00-10:00 10:00-11:00 
11:00-12:00 
10:30-11:30 
Pangborn 10:30-11:30 Lyons 12:30-1:30 Bookstore 
Lot 12:30-1:30 Lewis 1:00-1:30 Holy 
Cross 10:30-11:30 
SAINT MARY's All Pickups at LeMan's Parkigg Lot 2:30-3:30 
$5 CHARGE foR UNCLEA~ED REFRIGERATORS 
If you cannot make your designated hour, bring Refrigerator to Keenan between 4:00 and 4:30. 
...... ' .... -. . I ::_
·-/ /
"'11 
Saint Mary's Faculty Assembly holds committee elections for '79 -'80 
by Kit Bernardi 
The Saint Mary's College Faculty Assembly elected faculty members yesterday to fill com­mittee positions for next year. The nominees for committee positions were selected and presented by the Nomination Committee. 
Chairman Martin Dull, Vice Chairman Gail Mandell, and Secretary Albert Shannon were elected to the Executive Com­mittee; Robert Hartley, Charles Peltier, and Isis Quinteros wre elected to the Committee on Faculty Affairs and the Griev­ance Committee will be com­posed of Sylvia Dworski, James Paradis, and Anne Susalla. 
Members elected to the Pres­idential Councils and Commit­tees are Martin Dull, Sr. M. Louise Gude, Clarence Dineen, Sr. M. Jean Kiene to the Academic Affairs Council; Cyr­iac Pullapilly, Carol Allen, Sr. 
M. Assunta Werner to the Committee on Academic Standardsand Bruce Gustafson and Sr. Elena Malitis to the Committee on Curriculum Study. 
Charles McKelvey, Mary Jo Kubiniski, Thomas Woods were elected to the Library Commit­tee. Carol Carter will be on the Admissions and Scholarship Committee; Donald Horning will serve on the Committee on Rank and Tenure and Dorothy Feigl was elected a member of the Student Affairs Council. 
Elected to the committees of the Board of Regents were Claude Renshaw and Donald Miller (Finance and Budget); Ann Loux and Mary Marrucci (Student Life); Sr. M. Concepta McDermott, Charles Poinsatte (Educational Policy); and Rita Cassidy, and Gerardo Rodri­guez (Development). 
Faculty members chosen to serve the Committees of the Student Affairs Council include Charles Martucci, Donald Balka, Maryann Keating. They will serve on the Committee on Student Affairs. Grace McGuire and Kathleen Kish were elected to the Committee on Health Services and Richard Leavy will serve on the Appel­late Board. 
Mark Bambenek will serve on the Community Relations Board ne~t year and Douglas Tyler will serve on Student Relations­Judical Board. Newly elected faculty members on the Com­mittee on Cultural Affairs are Bruno Schlesinger, Max Westler, and Ruth Fischer. 
The term of the newly elected committee members will begin in August of 1979. 
The meeting also included approval by the Faculty Ass­sembly of the TIAA/CREF retirement plan resolution. As a result the Professional Wel­fare Committee is responsible for the elimination of any waiting period for the plan. 
The Notre Dame Knights ofColumbus presented a $2,000 check, May 3 to Corvzlla, a home for the mentally retarded ofthis area. Thr money was raised from the sale of l{arbecued steak sandwiches, according to Grand Knight Tom Leibowitz. [photo by Tracy jane 
Housing Department accepts applications for 0-C post 
Special bonus offer! Free $250 bottle Samson & Delilah Shampoo with styled haircut.l\kn $! ~ 'io 
\\ <dllt"ll s: I ill 
R9GIS HAIRSTYLISTS 
Park Mall 
Applications arenow being accepted to fill the position of off-campus housing coordinator for 1979-80. The position currently is held by Dan D'Antonio. Applications (resumes) will be accepted through Tuesday, May 15, and should be submitted to the director of University housing, Room 315, Administration Building. 
The off-campus housing coordinator is a full time posi­tion from May 15 to September 
1. During the school year the position is approximately twelve to twenty hours per week. The rate of pay is $3.25 per hour. 
The off-campus housing co­ordinator reports to the director of University housing. The principle duties of the Coordin­ator are: 
1. 
Inspection of off-campus housing and submission of a report for i-:.-.:orporation into the listings of available housing for students. (Off-campus housing is rated). 

2. 
Maintains a good relation­ship with landlords, city gov­


vernment agencies, neighbor­hood groups and volunteer services. Mediates landlord­tenant relationships. Assits students and works with the campus legal aid office. 
3. 
Acts as liaison between Student Government and the University. Assists off-campus student government whenever possible. Initiates programs to handle off-campus problems: security, public transportation, rent controls, neighborhood re­lations, crime. Must be able to work closely with students (off­campus council) and admini­stration. 

4. 
Prepares statistical infor­mation concerning off-campus housing. 


Applicants must be in need of financial assistance and have a financial aid statement (F AF) on file in the Financial Aid Office. Applicants should be graduate or law students who plan to be at Notre Dame for both semesters of 1979-80. High interest and/ or experi­ence in off-campus life is desir-­able. 
The Observer Fnday, May 4, 1979 -page 11 
State Department guilty
of mistak:es in Guyana case 
about a possible tragedy. 
One instance cited as a grave error was the handling of a June 1978 exchange of tele­grams between the Georgetown embassy and Washington. 
U.S. ambassador John Burke recommended in his cable that he be authorized to ask the Guyana ~overnment to take a more acuve role in policing the commune. 
But, the report said, the embassy staff was fearful the Peoples Temple would obtain a copy of the cable through the Freedom of Information Act, which gives citizens the right to see government documents. The temple was adept at seizing on any shred of evidence to claim harassment and conspiracy, the report said. 
Therefore, the cable contained none of the embassy staff's subjective evaluauons of paranoia of Jones or the potential for tragedy. 
Burke's recommendation for urging more Guyanese super­vision of the commune was rejected by the State Department in Washington "because it could be construed by some as U.S. government interference. '' Burke, though disappointed, accepted Washmgton's judgement. 
More errors occurred in the handling of the warning from Jonestown defector Deborah Layton Blakey that Jones was rehearsing his followers in mass suie1de. 
Ms. Blakely escaped from the commune May 12, 1978, and went to the embassy for help. She gave a signed statement to consul Righard McCoy accusing Jones of runnmg ''a concentration camp.'' 
Ms. Blakey flew to Washington with McCoy after the embassy gave her an emergency passport. On the plane, she told him about the suicide rehearsals. 
A month later, in San Francisco, she signed an affidavit repeating her charges. 
Copies were sent to the department. 
Her warnings had little or no impact, the report said. The statement she signed at the· embassy was never forwarded to Washington. 


CORBYS 
BLUE&GOlD 
Saturday May 5 Open 10 am-3 am 
Bloody Mary's 50¢ 
P.B.R. Cans 2/$1.00 
Alabama Slammers· 50¢ 
(can beer only at the back bar) 
WASHINGTON (AP) . The State Department was guilty of extreme inefficiency and serious mistakes in judgement in its reaction to events leading up to the mass murder-suicide at the Peoples Temple commune in Guyana, a depart­ment report said yesterday. 
But the report said it would be "pure speculation" to say whether improved performance by the department might have prevented the deaths of Rep. Leo J. Ryan, D-Calif., and four companions or those of more than 900 followers of the Rev. Ji m J o n e s . The report noted that U.S. embassy officials in Guyana 
· 
''were severely circumscribed by their basic lack of police or investigative authority." The Guyanese government did not try to keep a close watch on the ju':lgle encampment, the report sa1d. 
A congressional investigation of the]ones town tragedy also is under way . 
The State De~;>artment report, written by reured department officials John H. Crimmins and Stanley Carpenter, paints a picture of a U.S. embassy that feared harassment by the Peoples Temple and what might happen there, and of a Washington Bureaucracy that buried warnings it received 

DISCOVER BONANZA DISCOVER BONANZA ·DISCOVER BO~ANZA DIS 
8 139 West 1835 
o ~ McKinley Av. LincolnWay 
c(N 1 block east of Town & East 
Country Shopping Center,Z Mishawaka. 

Phone 287-9664 ~ Phone 259-9883 
0 ::>a:~~ Weekend Super Spec·1•a1
: 
ou One-Half Pound 

$2 99
~ 
-c T-Bone . 
c( 
c( ~ Fri., Sat. and Sun. May 4, 5' 6 
Z
0 Dinner Includes: Choice of Potatoe 
a:ll 
1 Texas Toast 
8< 
m 
all 
0 
·Z 
z ~ 
N 
>
~ 
no 
< !:! 
S ­
z
J>
Z N
> 
Unlike the norm, some tend to take a more carefree attitude into finals week. [photo by Tracy jane McAuliffe] 
Two Vietnamese families to arrive in South Bend 
can provide a place tor them to Twoviernamesefamilieswiu live in peace and realize their
arrive in South Bend this sum-dreams,'' Sandoval stated.
mer, according to Rudy Sandoval, Notre Dame profes-He added that Notre Dame 
sor of law. The famihes are 
d b d and Saint Mary's studetns
1
being sporisore Y San ova ' could help the sponsor's efforts Dr. Chou Le, assistant vice-p b h . h
y not t rowmg away couc es,d d
president of Advance Stu ies, chairs, dishes or other utensils and Gordon Hug, Radiation Lab at. the end of this semester. 
5 P.~¥~~~tp.onsores recently sent "The two families can use all 
the household itens that stu­
a petition to Sen. Edward dents do not want," he said. Kennedy with respect to the hundreds of Boat People that He as~ed students ro call ~im were drowning off the coast of at 287-)430 before throwmg 
Malasia," Sandoval said. "We away any household items. 1:111: 1 
C 
asked Sen. Kennedy to use his "0 .. IU and 1Unlimited Salad Bar. 
r: 
. ur sense of moral obliga-> 1 
n"" 
influence to increase the quotas non forces us to see that we 0 
0 
of Vietnamese into this coun-h 
. <:Ive a very special relationship u Notre Dame, SMC, and Hol_y Cross students, _*acult_y and 
< 
try. wtth the Vietnamese reople. !!! I' 
m 
in:C~~:;JY ~~~~ralq~~~~n ~;~! They are a very specia people C staff will receive 10% offfrom regular menu prices on all "' week. The two families are wbh?, fo~ better or for worse: c( ~four ;tem•·. cg 
. elteve 10 the United States' N " "' 0 
now bein~ processed in ldea of frec:dom and liberty," z· z -M-a-Ia-si-a._·_w_e_h_o-pe-th-at-we_s_an_d-ov_a.,.1s;,;a,;,;1d.;..____... VNOS 131\0JSIO VZNVNOS 131\0JSIO VZNVNOS 131\0JSIO VZN_,. 
The Observer Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 12 
• • • Lobbying firfll 



[continued from page 1] illustrate his point. If Notre sports fee on their tuition or the Dame spent one million dollars non-revenue producing sports Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, execu­on football and received 1. 5 took care of their own finances. tive vice president of the Uni­million in revenue it would still, Coffin claimed that Joyce is versity and chairman of the according to the provisions of mis-stating the law whne he Administrative Committee on Title IX, have to spend one says that Title IX will destroyAthletics, preferred to call the million dollars on women's college football. ''There is a lobby a "coordinated effort on sports. Since the 1. 5 million proviso within the regulationsthe part of 300 shcools whoare figure is the total amount of the that says you don't have to very concerned about Title IX. athletic budget, there would not spend the exact amount of We want to point out to HEW be enou~ht money to finance all money if there is a legitimatethe problems the proposed Universtty athletic programs. reason for the discrepancy,' ' regulations would give rise to.'' A large chunk of the football she said. "This takes into Joyce claimed that HEW has budget is allocated towards account things like the high cost totally ignored the economics of scholarships, Joyce said. Most of football ufiiforms. The only athletic programs in general. football players could not afford funds that have to be spend on The money for Notre Dame's to go to college unless they women are the funds that are 
athletic budget, he said, comes received a scholarship. "We spend on men as men.'' solely from football revenues. could stop awarding scholar­When questioned about the 
"We finance the sports pro­ships, but that would destroy proviso, Joyce replied that the grams, both the men's and football because we could no regulations were still vague.women's, through the football longer attract the top players." ''There is no guarantee of revenues. It would destroy If the football program were anythif).g being exempted,'' he football at Notre Dame if we destroyed, Joyce added, there said. ''Nobody knows for 
carried Title IX to the ex­would be no money for the .1re." treme," he said. other athletic programs unless ''That people are trying to Joyce gave an example to the students were charged a ;ay that we are opposed to Title IX is totally erroneous," Joyce said. "We are very much in favor of equality of opportunity. Non-revenue women's sports will be, and already are, treated iust like men's· non-revenue sports.'' ''This lobby effort is giving Notre Dame a bad name among women," Coffin said. ''I'm not sure this is what the University espouses, especially with Fr. Hesburgh bemg so big in the civil rights issue. They're not even espousing civil rights on their own campus." 
Education 
Department 
holds fair 
by Ellen Buddy Saint Mary's Editor 
Today adn tomorrow the department of Education at Saint Mary's Collge is hosting a Curriculum Fair-. The fair is the climax of an experimental lab­oratory class that was initiated by the department of education this semester. 
The course is team taught by Dr. Karilee Watson and Dr. Albert Shannon. The students in this course have spent their class time developing the cur­riculum, planning activities, forming-committees and taking field tnps just as they would as actual elementary school teach­ers. 
They formulated instruction­al units in the areas of Langu­age Arts, Social Studies, Math and Science. The development of the instructional units in­clude not only the daily plan­ning of classroom activities, but also the creation and~,construc­tion of all the materials such as educational games, maps, worksheets and furniture that would be used in such an instructional unit. These ma­
Bull your way through college with a six-pak of Schlitz Malt 
terials will be on display for sale 
Liquor. The great change-of-pace drink with a taste that has at the Curriculum Fair. The students acted as the
it all over beer. Perfect when you want something to go with 
faculty ina simulated educa-t
special times: like after the party, before the party, and, of 
tiona! setting designed to en­course, during the p~rt~ · hance their preparation for teaching in the elementary
But whatever yo'u ~s semester, do it with 
schools for 1980, according to
Schlitz Malt Liquor. Because when it comes to great 
Watson and Shannon. 
taste, we've always made the grade. The purpose of the fair is tc exhibit the course work of the students to the Saint Mary's
S(HLITZ MALT LIOIJOR. 
community and the South Bend School Corporation. The Curri­
DON'T SAY BEER,SAY BIJLL! 
culum Fair will be open from 3 to 5 p.m. on Friday, and from 
© 1979 Jos. Schlitz Brewing Co., Milwaukee and other great cities. 
11 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday. 

-
The Observer Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 13 

Demand for coal 
•
to rtse 
WASHINGTON [AP]-National Coal production could triple without necessitating a rollback in federal environmental health and safety standards, a con­gressional agency reported yes­terday. 
However. in a report to Congress, the Office of Tech­nology Assessment said the demand for coal will stay rela­tively level unless other fuel options are denied to industry and power plants. 
·'Coal is nor normally the fuel of choice unless it offers a large cost advantage.·· the report said. ··Many users will prefer oil and narural gas as long as they are available despite high­er ·prices, because of their greater convenience and lo:wer capital investment requtre­mcnrs. ·' 
Environmental, health and 
safetv laws add ·'substantially'· 
to the cost of producing and 
using coal, thus reducing it's 
competitiveness, the agency's 
report said. . . 
Bur if a sharp tncrease to demand for coal develops, the report added. "A tripling of coal production and use by 2000 appears to be possible without etther substantial regulatory relaxati~m ~~ major technical innovations. 
As it looks now, coal demand should at least double by the turn of the century because of likely shortages of competing fuels.,it said. 
The report said that if coal becomes the nation's main source of fuel, environmental conrols should prevent a repeat of "at least the worst of coal's past impacts, soot-laden cities, scarred landscapes and ruined or discolored waterways. 
·'Wide uncertainties" still surround its srudv of the impact of increased coal use' the reporr said. 
It said the that air pollution will increase, but probably nor proportionally, adding that more may be learned about the effects of coal burning on health and rhe atmosphere. 
Other conclusions of the re­port were: . . 
Existing technology for _elimi­nating sulfur from coal chimney gas is expensive, but should be adequate for meeting proposed air pollution stadards. . 
Mine operator compliance with federal strip mining laws raises the cost of mining coal, but should not prevent industry from meeting demand. 
Existing federal Ja:ws pr~mo­ting the use ofcoal will continue to assure some growth in coal demand. 
Short of a swee.ring new law, Congress can do little to smooth out coal miner-operator labor relations. Coal miner produc­tivity has declined since 1969, but gradual improvement may be expected. Regardless, pro­ductivity seems to have no effect on the ability of the industry to meet demand. 
By 2000, coal miner death and disability could triple, de­spite federal safety laws. 
The trends of coal companh mergers, oil company involve­ment in coal and utihty owner­ship of coal fields are likely to continue. 
Last year the nation used ?04 million tons of coal, meetmg approximately 19 percent of national demand. 
Students took on various moods yesterday as the last minute 
rush was on to ji"nish semester projects. [photo by Tracy Jane Ma\ultf(e] 
Investigators express oppostng vtew-s 
NASHVILLE' Ind. (AP) 
lnve~tigators expressed oppos­
ing views in court Yesterday 
about whether missing Nash­
ville businessman Clarenc Rob­
erts died in a fire nearly nine 
years ago. 
Their testimonv came on the . second da v of a trial in Brown 
Circuit Co~rt stemming from a 
lawsuti tiled by Roberts' wife, 
Geneva. The suit is seeking 
payment of death benefits total­
tog $1.2 million by four insur­
ance companies. Mrs. Roberts 
also wants her )_1-vear-old hus­
band declared legally dead. 
Formc:r Indiana Srare Police 
detecitve Donald L. Kuster 
testified that he believes 
Roberts did not die in the Nov. 
18. 1970 garage fire because of the conflicting analysis of scien­tific evidence. 
Kuster said checks of blood types, teeth and X-rays, as well as unanswered questions about Roberts' arrivities the day be­fore the fire. raised questions in his mind. He said he does not believe the charred body found in the rubble was Roberts. 
But state police Lt. Alfred Walker testified that he found nothing in the case to prove fraud or deception to him an_d he believes the dead man ts Roberts. 
Kuster said he spent several weeks trying to track down records of Roberts· blood type. He said military records li~~ed Roberts with type B posmve blood. The Brown County coroner found the boydy from the fire had type 0 blood. 
Kuster said Roberts was seen at a tavern the day before the fire helping an unidentified man who had suffered a seiz­ure. Witnesses said the man was wearing a plaid shirt, Kuster said. . 
Jack Bond, operator of a Nashville funeral home, testi­fied that he found a piece of plaid material on th~ body from the fir~: Earlier witnesses testified that Roberts was seen wearing a plain blue shirt an . hour before the blaze.f 
Insurance company inves~i­garors claim they have wit­nesses who have seen Roberts alive since the fire. 
The case has baffled author­ities since the badly charred body was found in the ashes of the burned-out structure. 
One of the theories brought our in the case alleges that Roberts killed another man, placed the body in the gara~e and burned ir down so h1s family could collect the insur­ance money and pay off maore than $200,000 in debts. 
Under that premise, a Brown County grand jury indicted Roberts in •1975 on murder and kidnapping charges in the death of the person whose remains were found in the garage. That case wa~ delayed pending the curren_t rna!. . 
Retired state police detective Ralph Shumaker testified Wed nesday he believed the body was Roberts because the Nash­ville businessman had talked indirectly to friends of suic~de. 
Specif!I Judge Jaf!leS Do~ on of Monroe County ts heanng the trial without a jury. 

•
wzns More award 
Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano, a student, teach~r and administrator at the Um­versity of Notre Dame since 1928, has been named winner of the 1979 Thomas More Award. 
The award is presented an­nually by residents of Fisher Hall on the campus to an individual exemplifying ''the virtues of integrity, moral forti­tude, compassion, leadership and service that were apparent in More's life.'' 
Napolitano will retire this · month as director of non-varsity sports at Notre Dame, but will continue to serve as a consul­tant to the annual Bengal Bouts competition, a charity boxing exhibition that has raised more than $300,000 for Holy ·cross mission work since it w·as originated in 1931. . 
Residents of the hall w1ll present the award to Napolitano at a 9:30 p.m. ceremony on Sunday, May 6; in the Ftsher Chapel. 
i\bsolute deadUU1e 
for PERSONALS to be run tl1 the Thursday May 17th 
Graduation Issue of 

is 4:00 THIS AFTERNOON 
(All must be prepaid at this time) 
Drown out the cold .... .... Pound in the spring at the 
~SENIOR BAR~ 
Before and after the Blue-Gold game Enjoy: -Burgers-Munchies­-Other Favorite Libations-Then watch 1st leg of the Triple Crown 

SATURDAY MAY 5 11 :OO.om -7:00pm 
9:00 pm -2:00 am 
• 

Dillon overcrowding unjust 
An extremely unpleasant situation exists in problem, but additionally the problem ts Dillon Hall. As housing quotas have now been compounded by the fact that we also have assigned for the 1979-80 school year, it is proportion.at.ely higher number of upper-class­apparent that Dillon Hall will be overcrowded for men rematntng on campus next year. the fourth time in as many years. A year has As the problem is perceived, this tends to elapsed since concerned residents pleaded witht manifest two distinct and significant harms·. the Adminstration for increased social space and First, a situation of overcrowding promotes for a reasonable amount of residents. While the Freshman maladjustments. In particular, it has problem could have been alleviated during the magmfied the problems of Freshman acclima­past year, the same oppressive conditions exist. tion tO residential life. Secondly, the common 
Unfortunately, freshmen bear the brunt of the study and recreational areas that Dillon so badly overcrowding, but the necessity to maximize needs cannot materialize as long as the Hall is available space has also restricted others in forced to accomodate an unreasonable number many instances. Many prospective sophomores of bodies. as well as the entire freshman class will find Comparatively, while other halls enjoy the themselves confronted by forced overcrowded luxuries of parlors, kitchenettes, multiple study rooms. Dillon residents tolerated the excesses lounges and immense recreational areas Dillon for the first year, but crowding continued. Now Hall is restricted to a small game room, 'and its a fourth year is more than unjust, it is ridiculous. 390 residents are hampered by the space 
Why. after four years, does the University limitations of their single study area. These choose to ignore the basic needs of the students? factors, combined with the totally inequitable It is not uncommon to find rooms designed for distribution of overcrowded room's among the four students to be crowded with six residents. halls on campus, have had an adverse effect on Hardlv can such conditions be conducive to the. quality of resid~ntial. life, ~n objective to either. a healthy social or academic-atmosphere. whtch the Umverstty IS pledged. The face that incoming freshmen will initially be We hope to make the Administration aware of unaware of the inequitable situation does not this major problem. We would also hope to make it correct, but naivity tends to harbor enlist their efforts in the alleviation of a contentment. Dillon stands as by far the most predicament which involves every Dillon Hall crowded hall on campus in terms of boarders per resident. Additionally we would hope that the room. The residents are not asking for a room S.tude!lt G.over~ment would be responsive to the and board rebate; rather, less crowded cond­Situation ~n Dtllon. P.erhap~ as openings may tions are desired. appear this summer, mcommg Freshmen could 
In terms of the existing social situation, Dillon be relocated to relieve the tension in Dillon. Or Hall is additionally burdened. Certainly it is easy maybe other housing alternative could be to be sympathetic to the plight of other halls that examined. In any event, the residents of Dillon also find themselves overcrowded, but more so Hall are willing to work in any direction that may than other halls, Dillon is faced with a resolve the present conditions. severe shortage of social, common and study space. Overcrowding contributes greatly to this The Dillon Hall Counczl 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Joyce misinterprets Title IX 
"f?lease help. Notre Dame's me-n are causing can prove that the differences are ba~ed un 
Friday, May 4, 1979-pagel4
Editorials 
Struggle of a people 
big trouble in D.C.-don'r help the-m by standmg 
astde.'' 
This urgent message is from a woman at the 
Universitv of Texas to those Notre Dame men 
and wom'en who want to see the end ot' sex 
disc!'imination in intercollegiate sports. 
There is currently a strong, well-fun(h d lobbying effort in Congress being made rn exempt all or part of college athletic program.., from Title IX. The lobbying is being spons0red by the-NCAA and a group of approximately 300 universities for which the UniversitY of Notre Dame is acting as a major leader. · 
In a statement appearing in The Observer. 
The South Bend Tn'bune, and pJblicarions 
throughout the country, Father EJmund Joyce 
of Notre Dame wrote the Department of HEW 
saying that only by giving nothing to each 
program could the Umvers1ty meet proposed 
requirements to equalize financial support for 
men's and women's sports. He added that the 
school would have to spend as much on 
non-~evenue-producing wom.e_n's sports as on a 
men s sport that would pay ItS own expenses. 
Father Joyce has obviously misinterpreted Title IX or he would not be so alarmed at the prospect of complying with the law. 
Title IX does not say equal amounts must be spent on men and women's athletic programs; it says that equal per capita amounts must be spent. 
What FatherJoyce and other opponents of the bill apparently have not noted IS that the law allows dispanties in spending, by taking into account the different "nature or level of competition of a particular sport.'' This protects the revenue-producing sports by stating that disparities in spending are legal if the schools 
ALL 'THE BIG TAN '!WR.­NE'IS NOW RE/lUIRE 'ttJU 70 saJI)IN A CCKU< PH0­
70 CF >t7lR SPRJN6 TAN FOR QIJ4L.IFYIN6 PfJRPOSE5, 
\, 
non-discriminatory factors such as "the cost of 
other activities that may vary in accordance with 
the requirements of local, regional, or national 
organizations.'' 
Father Joyce did not take into account thl~ 
important proviso when in taking the percentage 
of undergraduate women in the school he 
calculated that Notre Dame wou~d have to spend 
$800,000 for women's sports. 
Notre Dame has come under the eye of HEW because of the very blatant di-;parity in athletic e~penditure~ ~or men and women. One percent of the $3 mtllwn athletic budget is spent on women's sports; al?proximately $20 per female student is spent whtle the average amount spent on male students is approximately $650. Schools which have complied with Title IX guidelines have f~>Und tha.t increased support given to women s athletics has not affected men's programs. 
Yet Father Joyce prediced "disaster in the areas of inter-collegiate athletics'', ifchanges are not made in Title IX guidelines. Here are a few of my predictions: 
If athl,~n.t pr~~rams are exempt from Title IX, the victory for Notre Dame men will be s~ort-lived. Young women who have grown up wtth the respect and support given to serious athletes will not accept the la.me excuses women have accepted in past years. They will look to other schools after they have looked at the· "great Notre Dame tradition'' and seen it for what it is--a tradition which offers athletic excellence to only some of its students. And while these women athletes raise revenue for other universities, Notre Dame men will watch sadly from the sidelines. 
Renee Leuchten 
The following exceq>ts are taken from letters wntten by Micheal Moyo ofRhodesia, who was imprisoned for three years without trial after being ptcked up by the police in a wave of arbitrary arrests in 1975. Michael was adopted by the Notre Dame chapter of AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL who wrote letters on his behalf until his release in March of 
1978. 
... One thing which I would like you to know is my emanci­pation, of which I think will make you beyond happiness. I was set free on the 14th of April, 1978 at 9:00a.m. As you were praying for my release the Lord of a,l1 living understood your prayers and brought me out of the gtave. Which I think 
wiU be of much boosting moral to your group. Because you never rested until I was set free. I wish to point out that I was released because by your prayers and means as I learned m letters which you were writing to my wife arranging for my release. And all were happened. I feel as if I am dreaming that I have come out from a deep hole. I can say you are my angels and the wiper of my tears, even convinced that you will condone in my grave the day I depart from this world. 
Secondly, I wish to point out 
thatifuund everything ofmine
being destroyed by the situa­tion which is there. I do not even have home or food to safe my family with. I d9 not· have home, food, and other things which I think if God could help situation is more bad. Hun­dreds of people are dying daily, of which my life is in danger... 
you  to  manage  tor  this,  to  
overcome it.  
I  am  in  danger  for  the  

.. .Jt was boosting moral to learn that you are trying by all means to help my family in the present plight we have. cannot express how my wife cheered to receive the letter from you and hear that you ate very concerned about our well being and welfare. You can imagine how iny wife and I love you, we feel as we know you personally, about the sympathy feeling you carry towards our trouble. 
... My son Ndumiso is nine years old and in grade three; it IS difficult for me to raise his fees as I am not working ... I would like a place to live with my family, it is a big problem to see my family suffering, the h houses are very expensive. to the point that I don't even attempt to get one, only through your aid will I get one ... Food is not easy to get, we are suffering, even clothes. I wish I could erect a new home for my family to stay safe but because of finances I couldn't manage to erect one ... As a person interested in politics for your information the situation is very bad htTe, people are losing thetr lives daily, some are leaving the country .• As Chris­tians we do not havf" the chance to kned and thank God. so wea are asking you to pra>· for us wherever you prav. I hope that the prayers o( faith shall save us and the Lord shaH he with us wherever: we go. 
7HAT? lJH•• rrs  
WHitT's  JUST AN &/tiKJl­ 
THIS,  /.leNT. eNHANCES  
ZIJNI<.?  NATfJ/W. 5KtN  
\  CIJL.ORJN6.  
~~  l  
~  
~  
C/)  
w  
z  
0  
0 c  

WELL, GE~. MIKE, 7'l1e SlJN BELT KJJ)S 
~SIJCHAN 
ElJ6E OveR ME! 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board 
The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Features Editor .......Chris Stewart 
_The Observer_ 
represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor . . Doug Christian Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales 
opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ...... K. Connelly 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewis Business Manager ..... Steve Odland newspaper published by students of able to all members of the community, News Editor ............. Mark Rust Production Manager ..... Tim Sullivan the University of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News Editor .......... Mike Shields Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is Saint Mary's Ediror ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager . . ...Bob Rudv necessarily reflect the policies of rhe encouraged. Sports Editor ...........Mark Perry Controller ........... .John Tucker 

The Observer Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 15 
P. 0. Box Q 
Right to Ufe objects 
to endorsement 
Dear Editor: 
We object to your supportive advertising for the March of Dimes whtch appeared in the Wednesday, May 2nd issue of The Observer. The information upon which such action was taken was poorly researched. The March of Dimes promotes and finances amniocentesis, a testing of the amniotic fluid surrounding the unborn child for the purpose of detecting birth defects. They advocate use of this technique . in the second trime.ster of pregn~ncy. When used m the third tnmes­ter, amniocentesis can bethera­peutically beneficial. During 

the second trimester, however, amniocentesis serves no thera­peutic purpose. lr serves only to forecast birth defects. Te main purpose of such forecasts is to "search and destroy" defective children. "In 1974, sixty out of sixty-two defective children so identified by physi­cians funded by March of Dimes were aborted. 'Y' [The Wanderer 
Rather than pur their funds coward making rhe lives of these people (the defective children) more comfortable, or, researching for better medical help for them, rhe March of Dimes only facilitates a decision ro eliminate them. One is reminded of Nazi Germany where children who were deter­mined ro be bed-wetters, and therefore defective, were exter­minated. 
A second objection to the National Foundation of the March of Dimes has been the financing. through grams of amounts as large as $38,000.00 of Dr. Pierrt" Soupart of Vander­bilt, whost" research in vitro fertilization has led ro the disposal and, therefore, abor­tion of live human ovum. 
But the main objection remains. The National Founda­tion ''Five Acts-I 976) stares "The Naiional Foundation con­sidno., the most important right of all individuals is the right to be born healthy." This clearly creates an arbitrary distinction of two classes: those who have the potential to be born healthy and those who do not. There is no compelling reason for making such a distinction. Supreme court decisions, such as Yick Wo vs. Hopkins, Smith 
v. Alwnght and Rrown v. Board of Hducalion, firmly establish the fact that all citizens have inherent rights,· regardless of their generic or other such irrelevant differences. These rights include ''/rfe, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.'' 
Although the March ofDimes does perform many benefrt5 for handtcapped people, the aspect of amniocentesis acts as a significant detriment. The March of Dimes does not deserve the endorsement of The Observer, or of any consci­entious organization. 
This letter is not intended as a condemnation of The Obser­ver. It is written in the hope that the newspaper of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community will, in the future, make more careful and considered deci­sions as to their advertising and supporting policies. 
The Officer Board ofthe Notre Dame I Saint Mary's Right to Lzfe Coalition 
Kevin T. Paulson A6IMg PresiM.I 
'Let Letters be Letters' 
Dear Editor: 
In a recent article in Scho/astz~· Theresa Rebuck unfavorably compares the laboratory facil­ities available to studnets in the College of Arts and Letters with 
those available  to  students in  
other colleges.  
Althougn  I  personally  

sympathize with her position, she fails to see, I believe, that the lack of facilities is not an oversight but rather a logical extenston of certain implicit ideological assumptions that underlie the College of Arts and Letters. 
The peculiar detachment of the sCiences from the liberal arts at Notre Dame is an attempt co keep the liberal arts free from a certain kind of contamination, the contamina­tion of the present. Although the scientist may respect the genius of a Newton or an Einstein, there can be no preservation. The disciplin~s of physics, mathematics.. chemistry, and t~e ~Ife .so­ences, push the soenusts Into the future. The great mile­stones of scientific culture are simplv milestones, not monu­ments to eternal truth. 
In the arts and humanities, however, the past is preserved for its own sake. There are no cultural milestones, only cul­tural monuments. Dane and Shakespere, Sr. Thomas a~d Kant, Michelangelo and Ro.dtn are preserved. As humantsts we approach these monuments with awe. We seek to analyze their work, understand it. If we serve a useful function it is to prepare stu~ent~ ~o b.e intelli­gent and d1scnm10attng con­sumers of culture. To be a tasteful consumer of culture is, after all, a class privlege, and a 

university education is a sign of the liberal arts with the pre­social sciences should be middle-class status. sent. The College, therefore, purged from Arts and Letters We have no obligation to forge has every right to limit their altogether. If they coQtiriue to from the past a culture of the facilities and restrict their exist at Notre Dame, they present, that task we have laboratory space, for unless should exist as part of a college assigned to the scientists and that is done, there is the real of Arts and Sctences, and fer 
technocrats, to the business­and present danger that, like Letters be Letters,/urely and men and P.oliticians, rather our time Itself, they wtll devour the magnificently mire in a nos­responsibility is a nostalgic one. past. talgic longing for the past. 
Indeed, if Rebeck and others
The creative arts crept into 
wish to create, then clearly they 
Arts and Letters as the social sciences did, by the back door, do not belong in Arts and Mzles W. Coiner 
and both the social scientists Letters, and personally I feel Assoc. Professor of and the artists have polluted that the creative arts and the Speech and Drama 
A case against nuclearpower 
Prof. John Lucey's article in the Scholastic produced electricity. The Atomic lndustnal 
contains many of the common arguments for Forum, a nuclear industry association, concedes 
nuclear power. Since the opposing arguments that nuclear power has only a 3.2 mill average 
have not been presented, I will attempt to make lead per kilowatt-hour over coal. This lead could 
a case against nuclear power. ~bvious_ly be 'Yiped out by another $30 increase 
The basic building block of any case for 10 urantum pnces. 
nuclear power is the Rasmussen Report (Prof­Many people see breeder reactors as a essor Norman C. Rasmussen of MIT January, solution to nsing uranium fuel prices. The 1975). Professor Rasmussen uses the f~l!l~-tree breeder uses plutonium to convert uranium-238 analysis technique to analyze the probabtlmes of to plutonium-239. It actually produces more fuel an event (accident) occurnng in a nuclear power than it uses. This may seem perfect, yet, plant. The problem with the fault-tree analysis in virtually every respect, breeder reactors are 1s that it cannot be used to find absolute even more complex, costly, and gangerous than probabilities, as Professor Rasmussen claims. It present reactors. Besides the fact that the IS only useful in calculating relative probabilities plutonium used for breeders is weapons-grade 1for compan.ng mechanical systems. Therefore, and could be diverted illegally, there are three his claims of absolute probabilites are meanin1?" main problems with breeder reactors. First, less. We find that Professor Rasmussen s breeders produce plutonium which, as shown probabilities are especially meaningless to above, is highly dangerous, even when almost predict events which have already occurred. For perfectly contained. Second, molten sodium is example, one particular sequence of failu~es in used as the primary coolant in the breeder boiling water reactors will happ~n. accord!ng to reactor. It is highly explosive when exposed to ProfessmRasmussen, only once m many b1lltons either air or water. Tnird, a breeder reactor's of reacror-vears, yet at least 15 such accidents fuel can become supercritical and explode have already occurred. during a fuel meltdown accident. In a 
A further problem with the ''Rasmussen conventional nuclear plant•. this cannot happen. 
Report,'' as Professor Rasmussen himself The present safety record for breeder reac.tors
acknowledged, is that the effects of funda~ental is dismal. Two have already had senousdesign errors in reactor system equtpment accidents. A sodium explosion resulting in acannot be predicted since these errors have not meltdowm occured when water reacheo thebeen detected. Many scientists feel ~hat the primary coolant in a Soviet breede~ reactor .on 
Babcock and Wilcox system on Three Mtle Island the Caspian Sea. It had only been tn operauoncontributed greatly to the recent problems the~e: for six months. It will be "down" for three toOn April 25, the Nuclear Regulatory Commis­five years. The Fermi Breeder reactor n~arsion decided to ask that all reactors with Babcock Detroit suffered a senous meltdown. Lucktly,and Wilcox systems be shut down, admitting the reactor was relatively small and operating atthat their design does make them more only 10 percent capacity. Most of the escaptngvulnerable to malfunction and more difficult to radiation was held within the containment shell. 
control. 
Experts later agreed that a supercritical massShould it so happen that reactors could was narrowly averted. 
operate without incident, we still could not If breeder reactors are not feasible andeliminate the problems with nuclear power. The conventional reactors costly and dangerouS,wastes from a nuclear plant are also very what are our choices for energy in the comingdangerous. Plutonium IS only one of_ the decades?
radioactive elements actually created 10 a Far and away the most attractive alterna~ive is reactor core. Based on Atomic Energy solar power. The majorobstaclesto solar powerCommission reports, a full-scale nuclear indus­are definitely not scientific ones; they a~e 
try in the U.S.' would produce 440 million pounds political. The technology exists now. The basic 
of plutonium in 50 years. One pound of problem is a lack of awareness of the 
plutonium contains more than enough doses to tremendous recent advances in solar technology. 
cause lung cancer in the entire human race. Dr. A report was written in 1973 by the MITRE 
John W. Gofman physician, PhD in nuclear Corporation for the National Science Foun­
·physical chemistry, and former associate direc­dation. In it, MITRE estimated that solar 
tor of the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory has energy's potential contribution could go as high 
found that even if the nuclear industry can as 35 percent of all U.S. energy needs In the year 
contain this plutonium to a perfection of 99.99 2000, providing the commitment to solar power 
percent, we can eventually expect at least tens of is made now. The MITRE report also concluded 
thousands of extra lung cancer cases per year that preliminary estimates indicate that by 19?0 
(95 percent fatal). That is a necessary the price of electricity produced by photvoltaic 
consequence of expanding the nuclear fission systems may be competitive with electricity 
program as currently planned. produced by 1990 designs of coal plants. 
Another point often made by nuclear pro­The key to lowering. the prices, of these 
ponents ana industry spokesmen is the cost systems is mass production. Accordmg. to Dr. 
difference in generating electricity with nuclear Joseph Lindmayer of Solarex Corporation, as 
fuel as opposed to coal. A study by Irwin C. production volume increases two-fold, costs 
Bupp of the Harvard Business School and three drop by 25 percent. Even greater ~edu.ctions in 
co-authors from M.I.T. showed that the average price can be expected. A team of scientists from 
annual increase in nuclear capital costs was the Jet Propulsion Laboratory analyzed a solar 
double that for coal during the period from 1969 cell mass-production technique proposed by 
to 1975. They concluded, "Thepresent trends Tyco Industries. JPL concluded In 1972 that 
in reactor capital costs are significantly narrow­Tyco's process could produce large solar cell 
ing the economic gap between the two power plants for about one-half the cost per 
technologies. It would be a great mistake to kilowatt as coal plants. . . 
assume that the present economic advantage As the inevitable depletion of fimte fosstl 
held by light water reactors is permanent." -fuel reserves continues and the case against 
Fuel is also a fast-rising cost of nuclear power. nuclear power becomes stronger and stronger. 
In the late 1960's, G.E. predicted fuel prices Solar photovoltaic plants will become progr.es­
would be in the range of $4 to $4.50 perpound. sively more preferable. They have low operattng 
By early 1977, reactor fuel cost $41 per pound, costs are not dangerous, create no pollution, 
and according to the Nuclear Exchange Corpor­and 'best of all, require no fuel. Tht"ir 
ation bids for 1980 uranium were near $52 per development waits only for the commitment to a 
pound. It is known that a $10 increase .in cheap, safe, dt"pendable source of energy. 
uranium prices equals a one-tt:nth cent (1 mtll) 
per kilowatt-hour incr~ase tn the cost of FredEck 
• 

~" 
' 
Features 
Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 16 
Letters to a Lonely God 
r 
The Pope's Little Joke 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
On June 5, 1954, I telephoned from Washington, D.C., to my mother in Portland, Maine. 
''Hello, Mom,'' I said. I could hear the tears glistening in my voice. "I was ordained a priest this morning.'' 
"I know; dear," she said. "Your picture was on the front page, and your name was in a11 the papers." In Yankee towns, only crooks and Democrats got thejr pictures in the paper; nice people didn't want their names published, beqlllse that way, rhe neighbors couldn't know your business. 
Because she could hear me nakedly weeping, my mother said: ''What are you crying about?'' 
Considerably impressed with myself as one of the newest members of an eternal priesthood, I said: "I was just ordained, and the experience was beautiful.'' 
"Well, Robert, "she said, "there's no sense in getting yourself all-nerved up about it." Getting nerved-up, in our familv. referred to one's indulgence' in self-destructive emotion; it was something, like getting your name in the paper, that wise Yankees didn't do. "Anyway," she said, "you come home, and we'll talk about ir." 
This summer, God wi1ling, I wi11 go home to Maine to see my mother, who will be eighty-four in June. I will say to her: "Mom, June fifth was mv 


TELEVISION--PBS (CHANNEL }-! ·) 
"Evening at Pops Special" at 4 pm Sunday, May 6. Arthur F1edler celebrates hts 50th anniversary as conductor of the Boston Pops Orchestra. "La La Making it in L.A." at 9 pm on Monday, May 7. A film-essay about the trials and tribulations of actors, singers and comedians who are trying to get their names in lights in the movie capital of the world. ''The Goodies'' at 11:30 pm on Friday, May 11. In the tradition of "Monty Python", this troupe of three British comedians bring a unique blend of satiric humor. 

CINEMA--OFF CAMPUS 
"The Deer Hunter" at 1:30,4:15,8:00 University Park I. Dramatic story about three mill-town buddies and how the Vietnam War destroys them or transforms them. An intense film with some of the best acting in cinema todav. Stars Robert De Niro, Christopher W aiken and John Cazale. Directed by Mi~;:hael Cimino . Winner of 5 Academy Awards iqduding ''Best Actor" and "Director." 
"Hatr'' at 7:10, 9:30 Forum II Based on the 60's Broadway musical· by Gerome Rasni and]ames Rado. Stars John Savage, Treat Williams and Beverly D'Angelo. Directed by Milos Forman who also did "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest." 
twenty-fifth anntversary of being of 1954, after three years ot being
ordained.'' away. My mother was not, at that 
"Just imagine," she will say, and a time, in the Catholic Church. 
far-away look will come to her eyes. l'Robert," she said, the 
She'll say: "I wish you had as much children ... (my sister's children, who 
hair now as you had then, Robert." lived with my mother) ... "the.children 
She will ask: ''How are all the boys at don'eknow what they should call you, 
Notre Dame?" (She's never been to whether it should be Uncle or Father. 
Notre Dame,~ not even when I They are arguing with the Catholic 
graduated in 1949, and she doesn't children over what you should be 
remember that the place is coed.) cailed." 
That will be' our fam1ly celebration of "Oh, Mom," I said, :·what do you 
the sil~r jubilee of my ordination. think?" and I hugged her. 
I've never given my mother. now a .. "And me," she said, in just her right Catholic, a single satrament. She-­tones so she wouldn't sound like Maria along with my brother and sister--have Ouspenskaya, "is it expected that I never attended a Mass I have said. As ' should call my son Father. Should I a family, we have never done a.nything call you Father Robert, at least when Catholic together, not even g1ven up the neighbors are here?'' She laught;d meat together on Ash Wednesday, a little, and I hugged her. She sa1d Good Fnday, or the other Fridays of only half-kiddingly: "I just want to do Lent. I say this without regret, what's right. The children want t~ do 
because I think my Mom--remaining what's expected of them, Robert. true to herself, aloof to the pretensions My Roman collar suddenly made me of prelatry--shows a great deal of feel as though I had dressed for the class. She could have joined the wrong party. The words telling her cluster oflrish widows who belt out the that I was just plain folks stuck Ill my responses at the eight o'clock Mass. throat. How could anyone make a Even as a Catholic, she refuses to play speech like that to his mother? the role of a priest's mother; I only 'This was Daddy's house," I said, know one time in twenty-five years "and before that, tt was Grandpa's." when she went to Mass, and I wasn't Popes had never been folk heroes with even there. Irish in her genes, Yankee those two , Yankees. in her tastes, yet she's Catholic in her ''I was thinking the same thing,'' she strength and faith in ways I never said. Both of us laughed, thinking of taught her, because she's more my grandfather, because it was a rule Catholic than I am. in my house that nobody, not even a 
I rememher going home in th?-t June bigot, should be allowed to take 
What's All This , Then? 

"The Great Train Robbery" at 7, 9:1'; 
ForuJD Ill Sean Connery plays a 
mid-Victorian English thief who 
masquerades as a wealthy business­
man in order to plan the theft of gold 
bullion being shi~ped to the Bmish 
troops in Cnmea. Also stars Donald 
Sutherland and Lesley-Ann(' DowP 
Directed bv Michad Crichton. 
"B-lazing Saddles" at 1:45, 3:35, 5:2~, 
7:15, 9:10 Univ~rsity Park II. Mel 
Brooks chaotic movie sl>oof, and. his 
funniest film. Cleavon Ltttle is a black 
sheriff in a 1860 western town. Gene 
Wilder is marvelous as "the Fastest 
Hands in the West" who lives inside of 
a bottle of whiskey. Whereas the 
~nding is a bit disappointing, the film 
still has some hysterical sight sass. 
Also stars Madelein Kahn, Harvey 
Korman, and Alex Karras. 
"Th~ China Syndrom~ ....at f;3:10, S:20, 7:30, 9:SO Univ~rsity Park III. What-if story about th~ cover-up of an industrial accid~nt that could l~ad to nuclear fiisastc:r. Jane Fonda and M.tebacl.llouglas ar~ two JV reporters whohappeniupon th1s pow~rptant crisis and J'".ttk Lemmon plays the plant manag~r. The ,~:o-incid~nce with the reality of Thre.e-Mile Island is fri$htening. Directed by Jam~s Br1dges who also did ''The Paper Chase". "The Champ" at 7, 9:30 Forum I. Jon Voight stars as an ex-boxer who struggles against his probl~ms with gambling and drinking to manage a 
race-horse and to be with hts little son. 
Faye Dunaway is his ex-wife. It's a 
remake of the 1931 film and I 
understand that the remake can't 
touch the original which won two 
Academy Awards for acting. Directed 
by Franco Zeffirelli. 
"Firepower" at 1:30,3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 
9:30 Town and Country I with james 
Colburn. 
"The Great American Chase" at 1:30, 
3:20, 5:10, 7, 9 Town and Country II. 
A Warner Brothers montage of sc'enes 
from various cartoons featuring Bugs 
Bunny, the Road Runner, and Wile E. 
Coyote. Sounds like fun but imagine 
all th~ monsterous little kiddies 
running around the theatre. 
"Love at First Bite" at 2, 3:45, 5:30, 
7:30, 9:30 Scottsdale. A Dracula film 
in a more jocular vein. Much of the 
hur_nor comes from obvious puns and 
lund double entendres. George 
Hamilton is the Count. Also stars 
Susan Saint James. Directed bv Stan 
Dragoti. · 
"Every Which Way But Loos<:" at 
7:U,9:30 BoilerHouseFlix. NoWay. 
Stars Clint Eastwood. "Slow Dancing in the Big City" at 7:30, 9:30 Boiler House Flix "Coming Home" at7, 9:30 River Park Theatre. Jane Fonda won an Oscar for her portrayal of a wife of a Marine captain who in 1968 volunteer-; f, •r work in a veterans' hospital after hvr husband goes to Vietnam. There sl.t; meets a ,paraplegtc, played b 1 Acad~my Award wmner Jca Vtm:;lor who is enraged by his hefptessnh~· Directed by Hal Ashby. 
CINEMA--ON CAMPUS 
"Foul Play" at 7, 9:15, 11:30 on Ma\' 4 & 5. Engmeering Auditorium. Cht"vy Chase stars as a somewhat bumbling, tongue-in-cheek police investigator and Goldie Hawn is his girl friend who is pursued by Jangsters. The story revolves aroun a plot to assassinate the Pope as he attends a concert in his honor. The plot involves an albino, a dwarf and other strange characters. This spy thriller(_cqmc;dv has · .,, •me himself too seriously. My ordination seemed like the Pope's little joke on my grandfather. 
The orner best memory I have of that time in 19'54 was when my mother looked at my ordination pictures. There I was, newly-suited, freshly collared by Rome, trim, tan, looking handsome enough, I thought, to be a 
strange  priest.  ''The  hands,''  my  
mother  said.  ''the  hands  are  
beautiful.''  I  have  always  been  

conscious after that of mv hands and of other peoples' hands. 'My hands do not seem beautiful; but always, in that picture, they remain be~unful, ~ven for me; because, .at ordmatwn time, my hands seemed beautiful to my mother. 
OnJune fifth, if you are in I:Jew York City, I will be saying a pansh ~ass celebrating my twenty-ftfth anniversary of ordination at St. Joseph's Church, 371 Sixth Avenue, in Greenwich Village, Manhattan 10014; phone: 212-741-1274. I would love to see you there; and afterwards, we can go to Nathan's, in Times Square, for a Coney Island hot dog. Or, if you prefer we can go to the top of the World' Trade Center and fly kites. Somewhere, that day, my dog Darby O'Gill and I will be flying kites, if only in our hearts. We would love to have you with us, then or any other day of the summer. After twenty-five years, Darby and I never said we didn't love you. 
Mark Ferron 
truly t'unny scenes while still managing to make you jump in your seat. Also stars Burgess Mere·dirl1. 

PERFORMANCES--ON CAMPUS 
Outdoor Concert at 6-l 0 May 4 bv Musica Orvis. Between Flanner' and Grace Towers. "A~phytrion '79" on May 3, 4, 5 at 8 om .m O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC. Semor-~lumni Picnic at 11 am-1 pm on May 5 tn Stepan Center. Free for members of the Class of ·79. Society of Kapa Roof and 
l.ogarithmus. Picnic sponsored by the Math Club at 2:30-dusk May 5 at Bendix Woods. All 170-odd Math major and concentrators as well as the M~tb students and faculty of Notre Dame and St. Mary's are invited. Concert by Notre Dame Orcbestra and Opera wtth the Beaux Arts Ballet Company of South Bend at 8:15 S~nday, May 6 in Washington Hall. Ttckets are available at the door the Student Union and the ACC for i3.50 ($2.0!J _with student ID). Program by Puccmt and the "Carmen Ballet" by 
Schredin. · Concert by the St. Mary's Colle~e Chamber Ensemble at 8 pm May 6 m ' 
the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall Admission is fre~. 
• I 

The Observer Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 17 
Lenny Bruce: Where Are YouNow? 

God on'J knows, God makes his plan The information's unavazlable to the 
mortal man We work. our job, collect our pay Believe we're gliding down the 
highway When in fact, we're Slip Slidin' Away. 
--(Paul Simon) 
Do you ever wonder--really wonder-­why you came to Notre Dame? I had a whole flock of crazy reasons, but there are some very important reasons why I didn't come. 
I didn't come because of my father, who was neither a Notre Dame alumnus nor a high school graduate. He was dead long before I ever arrived at du Lac, a casualty to emphysema and heart disease. He was always the patriot, though. He died on Lincoln's birthday and was buried on Washing­ton's birthday. Stars and stripes forever. 
I didn't come because of my mother, a wizened woman who was a high school graduate, Peekskill High School (New York) class of '40. Her life-long devotion was to her children, and many good ones she bore. She was a fine babymaker, as most first genera­tion Italian Catholics were. ·She produced eight of us, one stillborn. One 
of them attends this fair school, which she has yet to visit. 
I didn't come for Notre Dame football (is Dan Divine , or a bumblin~ behind?), basketball (consensus has It that Digger could get bigger, which triggered me to snigger) or Rockne's ghost (he should've travelled Grey­hound). 
Maybe if I was 18 again, when most of us are naive twinkling innocents stupified by the rhetoric adults lavishly foist upon us to insure their own 
stunted stature, I'd feel different. 
"La Boheme", "Carmen": 
Are you bored with rock I ·Tired of harping on the qm•litative dt·t lin(' ,,; pop music 1 Driven to despair by that drivel called disco? If you, as I, have recently con... idert'd ;iving up listening to music alwgether, fore-,tall judge­ment unril thio.; Sundav r11ght. ·\ rwo-produrrion special. ''[.a Rolwnw'' and "Carlllen". will be the katur, operas at Wash1ngwn Hall. The sho\1 
begin~ at 8:1). 
Notre Dame orchestra conductor Adrian Bryttan has great hopes that Sunday's pert(mnances will be the highli~ht of the musical season. In an interVIeW earlier this week, he COnl· men ted: "For pt>ople not interested in opera, thest' are two of opera's most popular hits. No one wil fall asleep in the first ten minutes, I guarantee that.·· 

Thar was rnu..;ic to my ears, since he descnbed the exact re··n I had to opera rite first time 1. terd it. Whik tounnr. Europe i e summer 
of '71, I had the opportunity to see ''Aida'' i:1 Rome. Staged in a theatre built in the midst of ancient Roman ruins, I quickly tired of screaming Italian sopranos and gaudily dressed soldiers prancing on the stage with their equally decorated elephants. After falling asleep, I began to snore, ·which subsequently enraged the i natives who we~e seated nearby. My 
Instead, I came as a tempestuous, grieving, rambunctious and coarsened spirit of 23, well-heeled and much expenenced but still largely ignorant, in terms of intellectual life. I am not stupid enough to insist on being r3.1)-rah now, particularly in light of the fact that I've seen 
" ... the lights go out on Broadway 
I saw the Empire State laid low 
I saw the ruins at my feet... '' 
--(BillyJoel, New York Tough) 
long before I arrived at du Lac. 
Yes, long before I came to this idyllic Wonderland of Hesburgian Hellenism, catholic christianity and corporate casuistry, my spirit was disturbed and disemboweled; by what, you protest? 
By man's adamant complacency toward evil in the world, big and small; his preference for ignorance over learnmg; her clinging tenaciously to fears rather than admit a modicum of faith in an unknowable god, a god who died in the consciousness of human­kind long before the heralding of Nietzsche; but most of all by man's inexorable love of the past and future, at the expense of the present. moment; the eternal now, Which IS endlessly refuted and crucified be­cause of some past sin or some idiotic future. 
Why, then, did this Wanderer come to Notre Dame? 
For theology, yes. 
But mostly to partake of her greatest resource: people. The glory and prestige all fade so quickly. The shining, sparkling image portrayed by this much lionized mecca of media hype is crumbling under the incredible weight of artifice. Its true sons and daughters are crying for release from 
girlfriend wokt' me up, fF.aring for ht>r lift>. I quickly apologized ("Forgiva, mia' ') and rushed otf to the Sistine Chapel to offer a novena in thanks to St. Don Corleone, the par ron saint of 
_opera haters. 
Adrian continued: ''The story lines and dramatic presentation are very enjoyable. It's just the type of opera to introduce oneself to, especially if you've lacked prior exposure to this art for.n." 
"La Boheme" and "Carmen" are 
the first student organized productions 
presented at Notre Dame. In addition 
to the fifty member orchestra, a chorus 
of thirteen and four professional 
soloists from Chicago will contribute :their musical talents. 
''La Boheme'' is a traditional opera. It has a realistic set (designed by Mark Harris) containing an Inn, tree, toll gate, a gaslight, and snow falling to set the mood. Written by the Italian Puccini, it is a .i:r.agic tale uf a misbegotten young Io've affair betw~e·n Mimi, a poor working girl, and Rodolfo, a struggling poet. Composed in 1896, this masterpiect' is pne of the most popular operas of all time, having 
been translated into every major 
language. 
"Carmen" is a tantalizing recons­truction of.Bizet' s opera. Reworked by the Russian composer Schedrin in the early 1960's, it tells the tale of a gypsy. 
Chris Stewart, Features Editor 
the omnipresent stench of phoniness, a vile stinking pretentiousness which is w~rping most relationships1 and · denymg the hope to those smcere souls--male and female--who are gen­uinely seeking friendship, not dates; trust, not feigned affection; truth, not 
parties. · 
Notre Dame has become a villainous 
den of hypocrites, apostates, and 
liberal autocrats immersed in their 
own grand illusion: illusions of power, 
control, religiosity, and most repug­
nant of all, truth. 
Where is the genuine flock, the 
brooding scholars and restless spirits, 
the princely freethinkers who delight 
in scorning the conventions which 
abound this sterile plain? Where are 
the pugnacious dandies, the Dionysian 
revellers, the closet Machiavellis and 
bombastic Rimbauds? 
Where, I ask, is there life here? 
I am suffocating under your present 
definitions and declarations. Your 
rules demand rejection; your smiles, 
my fist. 
Ah, yes, we condemn that twisted and demented genius, Nietzsche··, having never read his work and cared even less. Instead, we exalt an obscure Galilean, an itinerant preacher in whose name more have been slaughtered than have ever been saved. He saved no one, least of all himself. Betrayed with a dusty kiss by the lips of an emasculated accountant; a disciple whose political conscious­ness overshadowed the pressing de­sire of so many idiots--membership in the Eternal Hall of Fame, where the sign posted outside the gates reads: For Good Guys Only. 
Good work, Judas. Human, and quite noble. Having come to Notre Dame for its people, I have found it wanting. 
Opera Chris Stewart 
-.~-.­
For this production, Bryttan has innovatively included a charactt'r named Destiny. This character br:ngs a heightent'd dramatic etfect to the opera, as its symbolism is merged with another symbol, the tarot cards. These two images combine to give an indication of the direction of Carmen's life in the ballet. 
The Bt>aux Arts Ballet Company of
South Bt>nd will perform in 
"Carmen". Carolynn Hine, Beaux 
Art's director, has choreographed the 
balit't, and will also dance the pan of 
Carmen. 
For the set design of "Carmen", Brvttan sorted through various engra­vings andprints of Picasso. The ones he chose will be projected onto two screens to form the visual background
for the ballet.
The four soloists for "Ll Boheme" 
include Ann Perillo (Mimi), Virgilio Di~tRodolfo)., William Oi:1r.a (~) and Margaret :Nykaza (Musetta)'. For •'Carmen'., Scott Forkner will be the Torreador, Pam Andrews will perform Destiny, and 
Hine dances Carmen. 
Bryttan, who previously taught at 
Memphis State, has been teaching 
music at Notre Dame for three YLars. 
Besides conducting the NO orchestra, 
he is concert master of the South Bend 
~ymphony Orchestra. Having direct~d Having scoured this domish golden­land for the past sixteen months, have made few genuine discoveht1S; the few I make known include an Aristotelian religious education teacher; an immensely personable professor with a knack for telling stale 1okes; an ~rasc~bly brilliant and largely Ignored htstonan; an unobtrusive ~ay prelate; a suicidal woman emergmg from the anguished abyss of her womb-like ignorance; a pompous, though talented, Rhodes Scholar who ejaculates profusely from the mouth when ignited by tequila; and one closet Nietzschean. 
The rest? A vacuous horde of 
frittering fruitflies; eyeless in Gaza 
bedouins of the mind; jogging jocks 
and puerile administrators;. but mostly 
grade grubbing, avaricious lackies. 
"What matter, the rest? The rest .. that is merely mankind. One must be above mankind in strength, in loftiness ofsozil .. in contempt. " 
Frednch Nietzsche, The Antichnst 
Declaring truth is all that matters anymore in this wearisome world filled with lies, deceit, lust and betrayal. ] ohn Paul]ones said it best (if he ever said it at all): "I've only just begun to fight." 
Or, to paraphrase the Beatles: 
''Baby you can dn've my car, But jzrst you gotta grease my axles. '' 
Edsel, you say? 
Come to my lair and play. 
Today. 
Today. 
past productions of ''Fiddler on tht' Roof', "Mikado", and "The Strauss Concert" at du Lac, tht' "Nutcracker Ballet" at Morris Civic Ct>nrer, and a special childrt'n' s H.alloween concert here, he wants to cont inut' to broaden the musical horizons of the orchestra. ''I'd like to do a full opera next year. 
I'm planning a concert version of Haydn's Mass. It is my belief that opera is one of the truly exciting art forms. Ir is drama, singing and staging-a glorious synthe~is of every­thing." 
"I used to like rock music. In fact, I grew up on it. i{ock, however, doesn't offer much of la-;ting quality. It is made for the murnent, for ratings, for immediate suu r·-.,.., It relies · on a monotonous!} heavy bass. and is just too repetitive to h.t \T any substantial lasting valut'." 
"Words cannot express the con­tempt I have for disco. Tu me, disco is the end of creativity, the bottom line, negative creativity, the absolute pits.·' 
"Opera is luxuriant. The music is flexible; it ebbs and tlows. There's a fullness in opt>ra. a continuity, which I 
think expresses the composer's sensi­
tivity in a way other music cannot. It's 
very sensual music." Arousing, thought I Is opera that stimulating? I hope so. I've decided to give ir 
another try. Ont> opera does not make an opera buff. I hurried off 10 purchase two tickets after the inter­view, and told a girlfriend to finish her.homework and term papers by 8:1 ') 
Sunday evening, because this is one 
cultural event I do not intend to miss. 
You shouldn't either. 
Tickets are still available at the ACC, Student Center, and the ND Department of Music. Adults are $3.50 , students and children are $2.00. 
But hurry. Rumor has it that Puccini's relatives are chartering a flight from Pastapazoole, ltaly to be here for the show. Being part-Italian, I can assure you that that means there will be a large turnout of Puccini lovers. Make sure you're among them. 
----------------------------~---------------,-----------------~ 
Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 18
The Observer 
technical production matenals are, so
The World 5_ymposium on Human#y 
that even ifwe could afford to bring in 
An Odyssey on Spaceship Earth 
~ 
Features Editor Note: This is the second of a three part series which culminates with the graduation issue on May 17th. It is based on the recent experiences I had during a trip to Toronto for the first international World Symposium on Humanity, held from Apnl 7-14, 1979. 
One of the first items each partici­pant of the WSH received was a green program. This thirty-page booklet outlined the daily schedule of events, which went as follows: 
9:30-11:30 am--Morning panels, fea­turing the three preeminent speakers of the day. 
1-4 pro--Satellite sessions. This telecommunications network linked the three symposium sites (Toronto, London, and Los Angeles) via commer­cial satellite and microwave services. The major speakers in each city would chen become accessible to the people in the other two cities during each afternoon session. 
5-6:30 pm--Kiva groups. These were organized groups of 10-12 people who shared a common interest or general intellectual focus. Kiva groups met four times during the symposium. Each member chose from among the eight available typ.es of kiva groups. These included holistic health, myth/vision, energy/ecolo~y/ economics, creative art, commumty/ education, communications network­ing, maps of consciousness, and sptritual paths. 
In a kiva group, the members discussed their experiences, express­ed needs, and evaluated the sympos­um's programs. My choice was the myth/symbol kiva group. 
8-lOpm--Evening lecture. There were two major lectures each night. These lectures were held at the Convocation Hall on the University of Toronto campus, Varsity Arena or the OISE building on Bloor Street. 
10-12 pm--Arts Festival. This was the evening entertainment package. It consisted of such people as Richie Havens, Ann Mortifee, Odetta (the legendary black folksinger), Taj Mahal, and the Symfhony for the U.N. 
The Arts Festiva itself was co-or­dinated by the Omega Company Theatre Company of Boston. This group guided a "Theatre Workshop of Healmg and Transformation'' dur­ing the symposium. These drama seminars attempted to integrate intui­tion and inspiration to then explore alternative theatre techniques, devel­op harmony between the body, mind, voice and heart, and allow constructive .:hange to occur within each person by stimulating their untapped interior 
creative energies. 
There was a specific theme for ech of the eight days of the workShop. These themes were interwoven with. the lectures of the speakers ead~ day. These themes included holistic living, the power in myth, energy1ecologyI economics Learning in Community, the Media: Planetary Nervous System, Maps of Consciousness: The Human Nervous System, Spirituality for a New Age, and lastly, 2001: Odyssey of Spaceship Earth. 
Sound wild, esoteric, and other­worldly? Not really. For example, the day Marshall McLuhan (author of The Gutenberg Galaxy, Understanding Media and currently a professor of english at Toronto University) spoke would obviously be the day when media was the theme; or Joseph Campbell, (retired professor of Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville, New York) America's foremost scholar in world mythology, speaking when myths and spiritual symbolism was the key topic of the day. . 
I woke up late Saturday mormng, 
the 7th. Being somewhat annoyed 
with myself, I hurriedly dressed and 
ran over to the QISE building to see 
how the program was progressing. 
The lobby of OISE was congested 
with tables, billboards, and new 
arrivals inquiring about housing, 
speakers or locations of particular 
buildings on the U ofT campus. What 
caught my eye was the black~o~d 
with the words boldly proclatmmg 
"CANCELLATIONS" and "ADDI­
TIONS." 
d. 1 1 r d I h d
I
mme tate Y • rea tze a not
missed the first morning panel. It was cancelled, and ( mvemently shuffled into the 1-4 pm time slot. This made 
me apprehensive, since this time period was designated for the satellite transmissions. Was there going to be satellite seminars? I though someth­ing was seriously amiss, and I was determined to pierce the veneer of hospitality and instant comradeship and discover why the schedule was being altered on the very first day. 
· 1 d ·
The mormng pane seeme mterest­ing enough. It was comprised of Mtchio Kushi, an expert in macrobiotic diet; Buckminster Fuller, the 84-year­old patron saint of alternative move­ments; and Nancy Todd, the director of New Alchemy Institute in Woods Hole, Massachusetts, an experimental group . dedicated to redirecting mod-· ern technology toward supporting
ecologically-sound networks of self­suffictent communities. The purpose of the morning panel was to engage in free form dialogue 
Chris Stewart, Features Editor 
with symposium attendants, answering queries and offering words of wisdom to those seekinl! it. 
It was almost noon. I asked a staff 
~.member about the satellite hookup. Would there be one today? He spoke to me methodically, attempting to assuage my skepticism with a preten­tious spiritual atr. 
He explained that there was a slight malfunction in one of the microwave stations, which would result in a one-day delay of satellite communica­tions. However, a taping of speakers (scheduled in Los Angeles and London) was being made, so that I (and other members at Toronto) would be able to view therr later in the week. 
Wonderful, wonderful I thought. Saturday'sscheduledsatellite speakers were Elizabeth Kubler-Ross (LA), Marcel Marceau (London), Sri Chinmoy and Bucky Fuller (Toronto). I wasn't quite satisfied with his seemingly suspect explanation, so I sought another, which I quickly dis­covered only added to the confusion. The second "official" expanded the cancellation of the satellite sessions until Tuesday. I was now quite perturbed. Upon pressing him further, his ignorance ~ave way. ''As far as I know, there mtght not be any satellites at all.'' 
I had a much deeper understanding of the Galilean's words--' 'the blind lead the blind" --after I spoke to yet another staff member. Being more intellectually dishevelled than the other two, his concocted narrative was at least more interesting, albeit more 
absurd. His gospel went like this: the symposium officials had cancelled
the satellite seminars for financial 
reasons! "It took 2 1/2 years to realize this fact?" I asked him. 
He sheepishly replied that the recent costs became prohibitively high. This revelation had only recently been bestowed from the gods of Humanitarian Olympus, I assumed, upon the symposium's hierarchy of money maHagers. He wasn't finished. 
"We also lost our London connec­tion." "Where, and how?" 
"I'm not positive, but there was a technical blowout in the London sub­station. This is being re'ctified. However even when the microwave is 
1 fixed, th~re's another hitch. Toronto city officials invoked a 1917 fire ordinance last Thursday (Apnl 5th) prohibiting us from using the Varsity Arena. This is where all of ouir the satellite, now there would be nowhere to show it. It would take several days to transport all the material to Convocation Hall, and the university won't allow us to set there anyway. The officials claim the build­ing is a firetrap, and for the size crowd we anticipate, they feel it would be a dangerous risk." 
If this scenario seems implausible to you, the reader, I experienced it. Having travelled over 500 miles (it seemed like 5000 with North Central at the heln;t), I never expected a humani-­tarian adventure would degenerate into a circus. But it did. Reason never had a chance, particularly in light of--you guessed tt!--a fourth explana­tion. 
This one was more mundane, since it dealt with the machinations of the British political system. This charac­ter assured me that his particular story was "the truth,"~and the best thing for me to do was to forget that I ever spoke to anyone else. I was about to be. delivered from my womb of ignorance, but yet I felt this jeremiah had more sorrowful news. 
''Because of the recent recall elec­tions in England between the Conser­vatives and Labor (all you poly-sci and government majors should get into this one--I never imagined Margaret Thatcher or James Callaghan would abruptly interfere with my life), which resulted in a stalemate in Parliament, the BBC reclaimed the microwave and commercial satellite contract that the WSH officials signed with them. This means that not only do we lose the ability to transmit the London sympos­ium to Toronto and LA, we also lose the deposit that we make for the use of the satellite.'' 
"How much was it?" I caustically questioned. 
"$50,000 dollars. And it's doubtful that we'll be refunded. You know how crooked politicians are.'' 
At this point, I ~rew oppressively weary. These instpid, monumental myths only beclouded the issue, which was simply:, what really happened to the satellite system? 
I'll probably never know. However, this disappointment did not prevent me from taking in what was still available at the Toronto Symposium. In the final article, to appear in the graduation issue, I will give you a taste of the colorful optimtsm of Bucky Fuller's philosophy; Joseph Campbell's incredible discoveries about some very ancient myths, espec­ially the Christian myths of creation, incarnation, and the second coming; and som~ general impressions of Toronto, acity of magnificent beauty, cleanliness and almost awesome pros­perity. 

The OBSERVER can be mailed directly to your home! 
Subscribe now for the 1979-80 Academic year. 
U-Haul 
r-------------,
I The Observer 1
Moving and Storage 
I P.O. Box Q I
I 
Notre Dame lnd 1 


Reserve your truck or trailer at our 
1
I, 
Name
convenient reservation booth right 
1
1 Address 
on campus. U-Haul representative in the 
I. City
I
Tom Thx>ley Room adjacent to the Huddle in 
11
46556 
_ -1 State I Zip Code__ I 
I One Semester $10 I
LaFortune 
L Two Semesters $20 !
--------·l..&U
April 30 thru May 9th 
Mail the coupon abbve, or drop it eft at 
i 
the OBSERVER 'office, 3rd floor
..................... 
Lafortune Student Center. 
Keep in constant touch with the latest in campus ne,vs, sport 
' 
features, and editorials.
Special student discount on storage space 
All subscriptions must be paid in advance. 






-.----~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 
Hesburgh to officiate ceremony 
An informal ground breaking ceremony for a new chemistry hall will take place today at 1:30 
p.m. near the southeast end of 
Nieuwland Science Hall. 
University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh will offici­ate at the ceremony and bless the site. 
The facility will cost an estimated six million dollars to build. The Stepan Chemical 
Company  has  donated  $1.5  
million  of  that  sum.  The  
building  will  be  name  the  
Stepan Chemistry Hall.  

Alfred C. Stepan, the founder and chairman of the company is an alumnus and trustee of the University. 
Mr. and Mrs. Stepan will participate in the ground break­mg ceremonies and University Provost 0. Timothy O'Meara will serve as master of cere­monies. The University Trus­tees and officers will attend as well as the officials of the College of Science. 
''This grant brings nearer to reality one of the chief research needs of the University," Heshurgh said. 
• • . Trustees 
[continued from page 1] 
Life Council. The amendment would provide the 
the addition of the Off-Campus Commissioner 
and the Judicial Coordinator as voting members 
of the Council. 
The committee also heard reports on the status of the Judicial Council and the Off-Cam­pus Council. 
Judicial Coordinator Jim O'Hare stressed a need for the increased visibility of the Judicial Council. He plans to heighten student awareness of the Council by holding workshops for hall j-board chairman and hall j-boards. O'Hare would also like to see j-board chairmen participate in freshman orientation and bring speakers on student rights to campus. 
The Judicial Coordinator told the committee that he would like to make the Judicial Council more responsive to student neeJs; research and propose changes in University rules, regulations and procedures; continue to strengthen the efforts of hall j-boards and increase student awareness of present judicial procedure. 
Off-Campus Commissioner Shannon Neville summarized the accomplishments and goals fo the Off-Campus Council. She particularly emphasized the need for a full-time Off-Campus Housing director. 
In a discussion of social space, Frank Guilfoyle, president of Morrissey Hall, asked for 
Soviets deny entry to Poortnan 
NEW HAVEN, Ind. (AP)­Gregg Poorman ha~ discovered that tt may be just as difficult for him to get into the Soviet Union as it is for some Russians to get out. 
Poorman, a former Purdue University football player, says the Soviets have a umque medical treatment that could help cure the spinal injury that has kept him strapped to a wheelchair for the past five years. 
The 24-year-oiJ, who was paralyzed when he fell from a tree, has been correspondmg with Soviet nwdical and gov­ernment autlwritw-f,lr a \Tar now. trying to oL .n p~-rmis­sion to emer the C<Htr1try for the treatment, which ts umivailalbe in the United States. So far, however, his efforts have been un~uccessful. 
''This is how deaJ serious my 
Eventually the new chemistry hall wzll replace the one that has served ND for decades. [photo by Tracy}ane McAuliffe] 
intentions are: If they would call, I would be gone two days later," he said. ''I've: got my passport and everythmg else and I'm ready to go. You've got to have a positive outlook.'' 
Poorman said he has corre­sponded with two sports figures who have benefitted from the treatment, including Indian­apolis 500 Mile Race driver Bob 1-lurt. 
Hun, who was paralyzed from the waist Jown after suffering a spinal injury in a · Jl)69 crash. has regained some 
use  of his legs with  a  walker  
since  the  treatment,  Pl)orman  
sairl  

l-ie .:;aid Kent \'\'aldr cp, a Texas Christian University foot­ball player injured in a game against Alabama, was treated in Moscow last year. 
"Waldrep was only the sixth American to go to Russia for the the allocation of $84,000 to improve existing social areas in each hall. 
Schneider noted that social space has been discussed at every meeting of the Committee ever since he has been a member. 
The $84,000 figure is the sum of individual requests from each hall and was included in a lengthy report containing requests and statements on the social space situations in individual halls. 
Former Student Body Vice-President Mike Roohan presented a report on the performance of student government during the past year and his assessment of student attitudes toward the administration. Roohan indicated that some student dissatisfaction with the administration resulted from a lack of visibility on the part of administration officials. 
Representatives from lnPIRG presented a report on an optional check-off funding mechan­ism for.their organization. The mechanism had been approved earlier by University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. 
The meeting concluded with a discussion of the role of graduate students at Notre Dame. Jim Zarzana, newly-elected president of the Graduate Student Union, remarked on the graduate stude_nt population's dis~atisfaction with coverage tn the campus medta and the particular affects of the housing shortage on graduate students. 
treatment, and that's not many when you consider there are about 250,000 spinal cord injur­ed people in the United States," Poorman said. He said that number grows by about 7,000 victims each year, 85 percent of whom are young men. 
Goodwill collects ./ 
l\1 ichiana Goodwill will be collecting recyclable clothing, household items, books and 
·other reusable items on campus from May 7 to 16. Boxes will be placed in dormitories for on­campus residents. Off-campus students may call 2.34-1740 for free home pick-up. 
1I 
I 
1 
II I 
I
I
I 
I
I I
I 
I
I I 
II 

South Bend's largest record 
and tape Selection ! I 
r--------------~ I
l $1.00 off! l 1 1 coupon 1 I
L---------------I 
S1.00 off <tny album or tape with this coupon. Limit 1 
one per person. Now through May 7. Not good on 
wt-outs imports or sale items. Coupon must be-
I 
presentt ~ore purchase is run§ into (ash register 
I 
• 
ND/SMC checks anepted for up w $20.00 1 over purchase amount 

• 
18,000 album., an~ tape~ in scock1! , I 

• 
Couldn't get what you wanted fn)m the 


1
Student Union' We'll cash your retund ~ checks!'! .ii 
River CJty Records 
I

In listmg new construction needs for the University five years ago, the Committee on University Priorities put a chemistry research facility at the top of the list. The new building io;; expected to provide 45,000 square feet of research and instrument space, as well as offices for faculty and cler­ical staff, seminar rooms; machine, electronic and glass shops and animal rooms and computer terminals. 
I
t l 
r 
The Observer 
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE MAJORS LET US HELP YOU PLAN AHEAD TO BECOME A CPA 
1.f3oFUSA 
INDIANAPOLIS 317-846-5591 SOUTH BEND 219-287-2823 
CLASSES BEGIN JUNE 4 
~~~~~~ 
CPA 
REVIEW 

[continued from page 1] 
Person-rems measure the to­tal radiation exposure in a given population. The figures repre­sent the product of the number of peiople livng in the area multiplied by the average dose received by each indtvidual, measure in "rems." 
A rem is the standard unit of radiation exposure. An indivi­dual dose of 600 rems is considered fatal and 10 rems can damage vital organs. The average person receives close to 200 millirems a year fr~m background radiation, medtcal X-rays, home appliances and other sources. A millirem is one-thousandths of a rem. 
Califano said he based his projections on the traditional formula for computing the link between radiation doses and cancer. But, he noted, ''scien­tists who believe that tradition­a!theoryunderestimates the risk of low-level radiation would predict up to 10 additional cancer deaths for this popula­tion.'' 
''Although one additional fa­tal cancer or even 10 fatal cancers may seem small statis­tically ... it is nonetheless ulti­
suttasheb 5:1 5 mass anb supp€Q aUus ~QJbay campusminiStry  


HAVE YOUR WEDDING LOVE STORY CREATIVELY TOLD 
FAMILY PORTRAITS IN THE HOME 
INSTANT PASSPORTS & APPLICATION PHOTOS 

Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 20 
• • ;Radiation 
mately significant for the indi­the accident, when releases the plant continue to emit radio­viduals who become these sta­were the highest, fewer than 20 activity, gave federal health tistics." radiation monitors were in officials the new, higher figures 
Califano said that in any place. released yesterday. general population of 2 million, Some areas had no radiation In April 4 testimony to a some 325,000 individuals will monitors and, "moreover, it is Senate health subcommittee ultimately die of some form of uncertain how many persons chaired by Sen. Edward M. cancer. were located in each area,'' Kennedy, D-Mass., Califano 
He told senators that one Califano testified. said that no additional fatal reason the government initially But he said refined calcula­cancers were expected from the underestimated the dose from tions and more sophisticated accident -the worst nuclear Three Mile Island was that, monitoring, plus the fact that power _()lant crisis in the na­during the first three days of some substances released by tion's htstory. 

PHOTO COPY AND RESTORATION 
CHILDREN ANIMALS 

--A SPECIAL COURSE IN LEADERSHIP 
·-GIVES YOU A CHANCE TO PAY YOUR OWN WAY THROUGH TWO YEARS OF COllEGE OPENS DOORS TO NEW CAREER OPP01\ (UNITIES 
IF SO--­
·· YOU MAY QUALIFY FOR A SPECIAL LEADERSHIP PROGRAM· OFFERED ONLY FOR 
COLLEGE FRESHMAN AND SOPHOMORES CALL IMMEDIATELY----TO INSURE ENROLLMENT 

1951 and was a member of teh University of Portland faculty 
··CALL [219} 283-626417332 
--ASK FOR ON CAMPUS SUMMER LEADERSHIP PROGRAMS from 1951 to 1964. 
Fr. W. Goff dies suddenly at age 66 
Fr. Walter W. Goff, chaplain for Holy Cross Brothers resid­ing in Columba Hall on the University of Notre Dame cam­pus, died suddenly Monday night at the age of 66. He was a former assistant rector on the campus and assistant pastor at Little Flower Parish m South Bend. 
Born in Reading, MA, June 26, 1912, he entered the Holy Cross Novitiate at North Dart­mouth, MA, August 15, 1939, made his first profession of vows in 1941, and was ordained to the priesthood in Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame in 1946. 
He taught at the Columbia Preparatory School at the Uni­versity of Portland from 1946 to 

The Observer 


1977 Mollor Brewong Co . Molwaukee. Wos. 
10-. ·..... 
The Observer -Sports Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 22 

... Netmen 
year,'' relfected senior-captain
[continued from page 28] 
Trueblood. "We're really look­
been excellent. It's made a 
ing forward to winning 20."
difference 10 the closer 
Winning certainly helps the
matches.'' 
"good times roll."
Fallon has seen the best and 
Earlier this year, the Irish
the worst of Irish tennis during 
upset a highly-touted Wiscon­
his 23 years at the helm, 
sm team which made the
although the bad years are hard 
NCAA's last year. That win
to find. Over that span, Fallon 
triggered a dramatic turna­
has compiled an outstanding 
round for the team. "Right
339-129 record with only two 
then we set a goal to win 20,"
losing seasons. In addition,. 
said Hoyer, top singles man for
the Irish posted two unbeaten 
the Irish, "and we still intend to 
seasons and in 1959, brought 
reach that goal. We knew from 
home the coveted national 
then on that we could beat
championship. 
quality teams."
For this year's team, hopes of 
After that win the team went
an NCAA tournament bid have 
on to win take 12 of the next 14
dissipated by virtue of early 
matches. Over that span, the 
season losses to Ohio State and 
most consistent winners were
Michigan. But this hasn't 
the two rookies, Hartzell (No. 5)
dampened the team's enthusi­
and Robison (No.6). They have 
asm. "We had a lot of fun this 
• • . Me.yers 
[wntinued from page 28] 
Meyers was born in Chippe­wa Falls, Wis., and movea to California. He played high school football in Long Beach and proceeded to earn AII­Amenca junior college honors at Long Beach City College. At Stanford, Meyers was a two­year starter and all-coast line­man in addition to playing on victorious Cardinal Rose Bowl squads following the 1970 and 1971 seasons 
He never strayed from foot­ball upon gradu,.uon, though, and first jomed the Cal-Berke­ley staff as a graduate assistant working with the defensive line. After two years with the Bears, he accepted a fulltime position as linebacker and defensive coach at Santa Clara, where he spent the ·next three seasons. 
Meyers rejoined the Cal staff as an offensive line coach beginning with the 1977 S(_:a­son. That year he was a maJor factor in the success of the 
Bears' offense. Taking an inexperienced offensive line, he 
a very good spring and I am
hc·lped mold them into a unit 
very optimistic for the coming
rhat helped Cal average more 
season.''
than 400 total offense yards and 
Meyers ap.d has wife Cathie
nearlv ~0 points per game. 
have a son Charlie, 6, and a
So atter seven vears of coach­
daughter Michelle, 2, and are
mg under the sunn) -.;kies. of 
in the latter stages of getting
Califurnia, Meyu s 1u1ds htm­
settled in South Bend. It may
self back in the midwest and 
not be the sunny climate of
now shares the offensive line 
California, but Meyers doesn't
coaching dutie<> witb Irish 
mind one bit.
assistant Brian Boulac. He may 
He has readily exchanged the 
not know all the players' names 
golden rays of the sun in
just yet and is still adjusting to 
California for the golden rays of
the Notre Dame game, but 
the Dome in Indiana, and
Meyers is well on his way to 
continues to expand on his
fitting in with the Irish style. 
coaching career. More import­
"I am impressed with what I 
antly, though, the Irish hope to
have seen so far in spring 
continue to expand their offens­
practice,'' enthuses the Marine 
ive prowess under Meyers ­
Corps veteran. "'We have 
except this time he' 11 have to
several experienced players re­
give up his sun tan for it.
turning plus a whole group of 
offenstve linemen that should make us extremely strong up front. 
''This year's group of offens­
' ' ' Colic, Haines 
ive linemen is a very physical 
But as the rounds went by only a handful more of wide receivers were among them. The draft 
went on into the night, but Kris Haines did not receive a call. He, along with hundreds of other potential football players, must wait for 
ND-SMC THEATRE 
amphytuton '79 
yet another day. Haines, Steve Heimkreiter, Jeff Weston, Mike Calhoun, Jerome Heavens,
a ]azz-Rock musacat sv mal€s Cotn€R 
Jimmie Browner, Randy Harrison, and Joe Res tic all must wait through another day to see if 
they will have an opportunity to play professional football. 
mew 3,4,5 8:00pm 
0'1_aughlin Auditorium 
Draft Notes--The prize for worst first round pick this year goes to the New York Giants. The
$2.00 Students, faculty, and staff 
Giants, selected Phil Simm.s of Morehea~ St. (where s that? Your guess ts as good as mme.) 
unit, extremely intelhgent, and they work very well together. 
[continued jl'u'!J page 25]
They are extremely coachable, him, were all grabbed earlv. Haines' hopeseasily the best I have ever coached. We have been having rose. 
,_
~------------------------------------------·~ 
iHAVE YOUR PARTY AT GIUSEPPE'S I 
I 
·II always a good time at Giuseppe's
,______, 
I I Potty toom \
I l J
can be rented 
II ~-------' 
1 ,.-:------·•-.
1 I p· \ I I •zza, I
I 1 Beet and II I Italian Food. I 1 \ I 
I ~. ·-------' 
I\ 
,~-----------•-.\ 
1 
713 E. LaSalle ~ I 
posted an incredible combined lat. ''I'm sure of one thing,"record of 27-2 over the past asserts second singles man,month. 
Harris, "these are going to beSince the win over the Bad­the biggest matches of my gers, the Irish have encounter­life." 
ed few obstacles. Senior Bob The toughest match for theKoval, who paired with True­Irish should be this afternoonblood on a very effective when they take on defendingdoubles team, was sidelined by Division III champion, Kalama­a severe ankle sprain two weeks zoo, who beat Notre Dame last ago, and moved from number­year, 6-3. That match isseven singles player to number­scheduled for 2:00 p.m. To­one fan. 
morrow, it's Valparatso at 9:00 
And now, the team enters its a.m. and then the team will final weekend of competition shoot for that magic 20th with three matches in two days against Washington & Lee at in the Notre Dame Quadrangu-2:00p.m. 
• • . Offense 
[continued from page 28] 
ret:eiver among that group last year, and heads the depth chart at this time. 
Former quarterback Pete Holohan was pressed in start­ing duty at flanker after the injury to Tom Domin, and ended up as the second leading receiver on the team, and the top returnee. Dave Condeni is the leading candidate to replace Kris Haines at die split end position, although Dan Stone, the equally fast brother ofJim, should provide depth at tha.t position. Mike Boushka was also a leading candidate for one of the receiver positions, but a separated shoulder will keep him our of the Blue-Gold con­test. 
In the backfield, Notre Dame returns four players who had a lot of playing time, including last year's leading ground gainer, Vagas Ferguson. 
"Right now we have as much depth at halfback and fullback as any spot on the team,'' said offensive back coach Jim Grueden. ''All the guys are working hard, and are all talented as well. They know what it takes to win, and they work well together.'' 
~In addition to Ferguson, who rushed for 1192 yards last season and is a candidate for All-American honors this year, the Irish also return junior Jim Stone at halfback and senior Dave Mitchell and sophomore Pete Buchanan at fullback. All were used in the backfield last year. Bernie Adell, Ty Barber, and Joe W ozneak have also had strong springs, giving the coaches plenty to draw from in the backfield. 
So with all this strength displayed at the various posi­tions, it would seem that no matter who gets the nod for the quarterback slot, he will have a talented group of athletes to help him out. 
Simms is a quarterback. While he may be talented, he certainly would have lasted another round or two if the Giants had not heed so desperate for a quarterback. Some of the players who were still available when the Giants picked were: Missouri tight end Kellen Winslow, LSU running back Charles Alexander, Oklahoma guard Greg Roberts and USC guard Pat Howell. Watch and see which players perform better over the next few seasons ... A close second to the Giants is Cleveland. The Browns chose Houston wide receiver Willis Adams. He may become a fine receiver, but the Browns need defensive linemen and there are plenty of good ones available today....NFL bias against white wide receivers became obvious when pass catchers like Haines and Penn State's Scott Fitzkee were overlooked in favor of such non-producers like Tenness~e's.Jeff.Moore, who was taken by Los Angeles 10 the rhtrd round. 
\ 
I I \ good food. 1 1
l 233-0951 . . ; ~------' I ~------------' II 
Boo I. I 
• .. "t t I 
n nne l .• 
~ I 
,~------·-., I 
• Catty out I 1
1 I 1 
I pizza I I
I d h I
I an , ot er ! 1 
~-------------------------------------------' 
r-----~----------·-~ ~­
l 
The Observer Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 23 I 

1'11 •)P< r

Don't leave school without it. -, 
Now that you're going out into the 
world, you're going to need the 
American Express~ Card. It's indis-­
pensable, for vacations or business~ 
But don't wait, because we've . made it easier to get for graduates. All you need is a $10,000 job (or the-promise of one). It'll be tougher later, so look for this display in the Student Center and other locations around campus. 
TI1e An1erican Express Card. Don't leave sc'-::_~ol with idt it 


'·' 
'_ ..·;?.·-~_1·._-. . ·.6,··. 
The Observer -Sports Friday, May 4, 1979-page 24 
• • • Defense 
[<continued from page 28] 
with sophomore Tim Ponsler in the secondary this spring, spring drills, he will count supporting Crable up the mid­according to Y onto. Leading specifically on two individuals dle. the way will be co-captain Dave to lead the linebacker corps. The biggest casualty of a Waymer, slated for a starting 
''We were fortunate that relatively injury-free spring oc­berth at left cornerback. 
curred when Scott Zettek, slated for starting duty at right defensive end, tore cartilage in his right knee 12 days ago. Although the injury required surgery two days ago, Irish coaches are optimistic that Zet­tek will be able to perform come fall. 
In the meantime, sophomc>re Jeff Lueken steps into Zettek's spot, with strong competition from junior Mark Pulawski Senior Hardy Rayam, with Jtm. ired varsity experience, has the inside track at the left bookend, and is being pushed by sopho­more Pat Kramer. 
Senior Jay Case will become a fifth-year student to take advantage of his final year of eligibility, and has a strong hold at left tackle. Case, originally a tackle, moved to end last year to allow Jeff Watson and Mike Calhoun to occupy the middle positions. He'll now return to the inner trenches. 
Sophomore Joe Gramke, who has played both tackle and end, will join Case inside. Gramke was another freshman standout in last year's 35-34 Cotton Bowl victory over Houston. 
"We've been very pleased with their work this spring," included Yonto, also the defen. sive line coach for 15 years. ''The three defensive coaches have been very pleased, in fact, with the team's total prog­ress.'' 
Progress has also been madt.: 
Joining Waymer is sopho­more John Krimm at the other corner. 
Sophomore Steve Cichy, im­pressive in specialty team roles last year, appears to be headed for_ a starting spot a strong safety. Cichy, by the way, may also see action off the kicking tee. The left-footed straight­ahead kicker easily hit a 60-yard field goal attempt at a scrim­mage two weeks ago. 
Junior Tom Gibbons moves from right corner to free safety this year to replace Joe Res tic and Randv Harrison, who shared thar'spot in 1978 
Nonetheless, some of the most encouraging signs, ac­cording to Yonto, have come in the play of some backup people in the secondary. 
"Angelo Fasano at free safe­ty, Bill Doran at strong safety, and Dick Boushka at the corner ~ave all been a. great inspira­tiOn to the enure secondary, and have looked very promis­ing," said Yonto. 
''In fact, the enthusiasm which they have shown is typical of the attitude that the entire squad has exhibited so far this spring. Hopefully, this enthusiasm will offset any weakness we might have in depth." 
And if Yon to has anything to do with it, you can rest assured that there won't be too many weaknesses in the Notre Dame defense come September 15. 
Dave Waymer wzl! be !Zni11g. up in Notre Dame's defensive backfield agazn thzs fa!!, provzdzng valuable expen.ence for the lnsh. [photo by Doug C7mstzcm) . 
(Mike) Whittington and (Bob­by) Leopold were able to play quite a bit over the past few years. Those two have that necessary game experience. '' 
Whittington and Leopold, both seniors to be, will more than likely hold down the outside positions with sopho­more Bob Crable anchoring the middle. 
"They will be the quickest three linebackers I've had in my 10 years here," added Kelly. "I don't think we're sacrificing too much in strength, but they will be the most untested I've had." 
Sophomore Tony Belden, of Cotton Bowl fame, and junior Brendan Moynihan will provide backup help on the outsides, 
Grapplers enjoy banner recruiting 
commented Sepeta, preparing
by Bzl! Marquard Turgeon. Turgeon, from Fair­
Sports Wnter for his fifth year as Irish mat view Park High School, placed
mentor. 
third in this winter's Ohio State Building on his talented crew The premiere recruit for the Championships at 145 pounds.of returning upperclassmen Irish is Mike Mills, a ,four-time 
''Rich is a valuable addition with an eye for the future, Irish Michigan state champion. The to our line-up," noted Sepeta.
wrestling coach Ray Sepeta Mt. Pleasant High School "He's a fairly balanced wrest­
feels that next year's incoming senior was the first wrestler in ler with good mat sense and freshmen wrestlers could very Michigan history to clinch the should make a big contribu­well be the best class in the state tide four straight times. 'l:ion.'' 
school's mat history. "Mike is undoubtedly one of Rounding our the elite crew 
''I m reallv excited about the best wrestlers in the coun­is Paul DeBaggis, a 167­next H'ar. We have al•H of try," explained Sepeta. "He's 
pounder from Cleveland expenenced J-lci Iurmers b:.H:k to very talented, with takedowns Heights High School. De anchur Lhc ream, bw wr· also being his strongest suit." Baggis finished fourth in the enjoyed what has to be our Adding more clout to the Ohio Championships. finest recruting year ever,'' strong Irish lineup is Rich 

Michael Molinelli 

19 Expense 39 Furnace 20 Nouveau-control 21 Placefor 43 Opening 
a bath 44 Diet dish 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

60 Throwback flowers 61 Vague 38 Military numbers shoulder 62 Swimming fringe 40 Perfect DOWN knight 1 Meadowfor 41 Most level grazing 42 Returnto 2 Nightmare old ways 
creature 43 Fish spears 3 Twinge 45 Lowerin 4 Top off dignity 5 Construct 48 Confederate 6 Pacific general 
islander 50 River mouth 7 Of a degree 53 Betoo 8 I in Berlin fond of 9 Transmis-55 Molten 
sion item eruption 10 Clean: abbr. Sl Takethe 11 Fabulous prize 
• .. Lacrosse 
[cuntznued from page 25] 
on the 'B' squad. .The .guys 
with less talent who JUSt l!l<e to 
have a g_ood time or those who 
are just aeveloping into capab.le 
athletes may be reduced 10 
number. Walsh stated, "Play­
ers like myself who never 
played before may never have 
the chance to develop."
"We've had a super year (9-2) against the best teams in the m1awest," added Walsh, "and we've been very relaxed. I think, though, if the athletic department would pay some attention to us we could have one of the best programs in the whole nation in a short rime." 
The recent rise offormer club teams like soccer and hockey to prominence on the Division I • level seems to indicate the unlimited potential for any var­sity sport at Notre Dame to make a name for itself on a national level. Sophomore Kev­in Campion suggested, ''In light of our recent successes, we certainly have the talent to justifY. varsitY. status." 
In light of its recent success, the future of lacrosse at Notre Dame looks very bright indeed. 
. Spring 
[cuntznued from page 28] 
the players try to impress the coaches and also the loyal Notre Dame fans who usually view this game. 
Admission for the contest, slated to kick-off at 2 p.m., is $2. 50 for adults and $1 for children. All proceeds are to be donated to the scholarship fund for the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley. Notre Dame and St. Mary's students will be admitted free upon presenta­tion of their I.D. card. 
-~ 
~----------------------------------------------------~~-------------------------­
The Observer -Sports Friday, May 4, 1979-page 25 

Golic, Haines play -waiting gam.e 
For pro football fans the National Football League's annual draft of graduating college semors is an exciting affair. The fans eagerly await their home team's selections because they know a good draft means good teams in the future. Sports desks at radio and television stations as well as in newspaper offices are flooded with calls as fans anticipate the arrival of new heroes. 
But for the players who are involved in the process, draft day can be nerve-wrecking and disappointing. The college seniors just sit by the phone and wait. Their agents might give them a call to encourage them and their friends might stop by to help them pass the time, but they are all alone, just waiting to hear something ... wait­ing for that phone to ring. 
For Bob Golic it seemed as thought the call would never come. Golic waited out the draft in his room in Planner Hall. Recent reports of an increase in his weight and 40 yard dash times of over five seconds cast some doubt on his draft status. So he waited. The more time that went by, the more he wondered about his status. He drd get some phone calls: one from a tuxedo shop, another from a florist, and a third from a member of the Planner Hall staff asking that he return a vaccuum cleaner he borrowed. As these calls came in, some of Golic 's friends called NFL information in New York to find out what players had been drafted and how far the draft had progressed. In the middle of the second round, they learned that the first Notre Dame player, center Dave Huffman, had been drafted. He was chosen by the Minnesota Vikings. But still no call for Golic. 
Soon after this he received a call from the New York Giants. Had he been drafted? No, the 
Tony 
Pace 

Giants wanted to know if Golic wanted to play offensive center. He responded he preferred linebacker and then middle guard, but he said nothing about center. The conversation ended and Golic's feelings sank even lower. Were the pros no longer interested in him as a linebacker? 
Before Golic had time to worry about that, his friends had already dismissed the idea. After reminding Golic of the Giants' horrendous drafting history, J ohnJordon proclaimed, "In a few years, that call by the Giants will be a standing joke. Bob Golic at center ... that's ridiculous." The whole room was in hysterics. But there was still no phone call. 
Finally at about 2:05, the call came. Five hours and five minutes after the draft had begun, Bob Golic could relax .. :he would be playing for the New England Patnots next fall. 
But while Golic could go out and celebrate, Kris Haines still had to wait. Haines did not expect to be picked in the fir.st roun~ or two, but he did watch to see how qUickly wrde receivers were being picked. Hames had been rated anywhere from eighth to twentieth among wide receivers dependin.g upon which s~out you. believed. So Hames watched whrch wrde receivers were drafted and waited. Butler, Adams, Jones, 'Gray, Watts ... the names of the 
wide receivers he expected to be picked before 
[continued on page 22] 

Notre Dame Golic was the second round pick of 
the New England Patriots in the N.F.L. draft.. [photo by Doug rChristzan] 
Lacrosse tries for varsity bid 
by Gary Grassey 
Buffalo tnakes Cousineau No.1 
Sports Writer 
NEW YORK (AP)-The last great linebacker to come out of Ohio State was Randy Gradi­shar. He helped turn the Den­ver Broncos mto a Super Bowl team. Now comes Tom Cousi­neau. He may be the man who starts Buffalo back toward re­spectability. 
''The thought I've had from watching the Bills is that they need defensive help. They score a lot of points,'' the 6 foot 3, 227 pound Cousineau said Thursday after they made him an instant millionaire by making him the No. 1 selection in the National Football League ·draft. 
''Being No. 1 is something 
I've looked forward to for 
years,'' he added during a news conference one floor down from the NFL's draft headquarters, the Starlight Roof Ballroom on the 18th floor of the Waldorf­Astoria. 
The Bills had the chance to make Cousineau No. 1 thanks to the trade they engineered last year when they sent 0.]. Simpson to the San Francisco 49ers. Losing him didn't hurt their offense any. They wound up drafting Terry Miller and he wound up with more than 1 ,000 yards last season. 
It was obvious the leather medallion Cousineau wore around his neck, a gift from a close friend, had done its job. ''He gave it to me to ensure my 
by Mike Henry Sports Wn'ter 
The human arm was never meant to undergo the stress, wear and pain that are a pitcher's pli~ht. So unnat~ral are the mouons that go mto throwing a 90 m.p.h. fastball or a sharp breaking curve that the day after an assignment, a hurler's wing is about as useful as a wet washrag. And, since every play starts with the delivery from the hill, this central characte must possess equal measures of cool and courage to be effective. 
Mike Bobinski, the elder statesman of the Irish mound corps, is well aware of the pain that accompanies the pleasure of being pitcher for the Notre Dame baseball team. And, in his last year of diamond action, the pressure on his elbow is so intense that he has been ad­vised not to throw and risk permanent injury; in his last start, against Xavier on Sun­day, Bobinski was forced to depart afer only I 1-3 innings. 
Indeed, Bobrnski has had a history of arm ailments that have plagued him since high school "My high school coach started me every Monday and Thursday, and sometimes I'd be used in a relief role," the Long Island native relates. 
''By my senior year was only able to pitch a week, and I could barely lift my arm after each start. Then, there's the South Bend climate. I can only remember about five or six games I've pitched here in good weather, and I'm much more effective when the weather is warm and my arm can get loose.'.' 
Still, Bobinski harbors no regrets over his decision to matriculate at ·du Lac. When healthy, he's the n;Imber one starter on the staff,and last year he finished third in team ERA despite a string of tough-luck outmgs that would have un­raveled a lesser competitor. 
In addition, Bobrnski is a 
member of the Beta Alpha Psi 
and Betta Gamma Sigma honor 
societies, and has garnered a 
job with Deloitte, Haskin~ and 
Sells, one of the l?restrgious 
"Big Eight" accounting firms. 
He derives great satisfaction from the strides he has seen the program make in his four years, ''Coach Kelly has been a tire­less recruiter, and he's done a lot to instill a positive attitude on the squad," Mike enthuses. '·Ricky Pullano has been great as an on-the-field leader. With the foundation established by 
welfare in the Big Apple," he After competing on a club said. level for the past srxteen years,
"I want to play in the NFL Notre Dame s lacrosse players with the big boys. I want to are hoQing tha~ their decrsio~ to play and I'm going to play," he apply lor varsrty status dunng 
die 1979-80 school }'ear will becontinued, shrugging off any approved by the Athletic Board, suggestions that he might eye headed by Fr. Edmund Joycethe Canadian Football League C.S.C., within the next few as a-way of jacking up his price months.
tag. 
The squad made its decision"I anticipate no problem in at a meeting Tuesday after­signing ... I was in Buffalo once 
noon. Afterweighingthe merits for a physical. It seemed of the move, pro and con, the 
nice ... I've been playing for 14 players decided to vote unani­years for satisfaction and edu­mously to apply.cation. It's thrilling to play a Outgoing dub president Tim kid's game and get paid. It's Walsh, after many years of 
not work for me .. .l would personal opposition to changing assume I can step right in and from the refaxed atmosphere of 
a student-run club to the idea of:start.'' ..,.., 
putting all control into the hands of the athletic depart­ment\ felt that varsity status woula eventually bring manybenefits to the sport. "Bygoing varsity, the team would oe in a midwest lea_gue against Division I teams. We'd be able to attract a lot of good east coast players,'' he remarked, ''while now its just lucky if we get experienced players.'' 
In coming years, with added revenues from the athletic de­partment, the team will have the chance to travel to lacrosse hotbeds in the country and be able to recruit first-rate· players on a level with other sdiools. 
The major objection to the idea :was that a limited roster might hurt the status of players 
[continued on page 24] 
their efforts, the future for Notre Dame baseball looks very bright." 
Bobinski's best pitch is his hard slider, and he'll use that or his fastball when he needs a big out. Number 28 faces every batter ''with the intention of striking him out. Even though this means I have to throw more pitches, a strikeout is the easiest way to retire a batter, and every pitcher gets satisfac­
tion  from  making  the  hitter  
whiff.''  
Pullan<)  for  one,  has  been  

witness to the matUring process undergone by his fellow senior. ''When Mike first came up, he was very tempermental on the 
. mound, and that got him into trouble," Ricky recalls. "Now he's more or less the captain of the pitchers, and he has a very relaxing effect on the rest of the team. It's really been a pleasure P!~ying with him for four years. 
When Bobinski steps on the slab at Jake ·Kline Field, his demeanor and class shine through, and he has the com­plete confidence of those play­mg behind him. For Mike Bobinski, four years as a pitcher at Notre Dame has been an enriching experience that will help prepare him for what lies ahead. 
Today's 
REDBUD 
answers 
SUMMER ART 
IP IS IE ilQlliGISIUIP. IAIN[T A[R A IOICIEIA[N[UIS 
WORKSHOP
lslclA 
PIE 
MIE:c IN IM [T[UIB 
Earn three credits in draw­
IP [N
IR lB.~*; 
ing, printmaking or photo­
lilE[Nlr 
INIEIR[V E L 
IS 
graphy. You don't have to
'lllfiRIT• 
ISIS lA 
be an Art major. For info,
I,~
IP.IS lA 
IAio: EIAlVct 
call Michele Fricke
lAIR. 
ITIE .ILIEIV IE .lA ICIM LIAIN'E 
284-5 717 operated by Saint 
IO IL IL lo IWIT IHIELE 
'R 
Mary's Art Department.lE lE II I 
IE.IA 
(Workshop will run May 21 
IT IE IE IN 
A
Is•IN
••s 
• 
thruJune 2) 
A0!FrP~ilCD~~il®~~ 
Applications for Big Sisters of SMC class of 1983 are in the mail. 
l.F&Imc~:::m llil.m~WlliJ:"Y ~® rn~u. ~~~rn. 
, rn li:ltrun:.IDrm!.~~ ~co~·u\rll1r~Q --IDu·~:J\0~ 
ill~ \JJ1EW..11 ill~)! ID~W ~1ll :tJ:!®(])U>W 
OC students can pick them up at the student activities office anytime 
®Wil!Q~l!@'gfli) !,{J)~IL CD~1rllil.lllli~Ul 
(lQ~(l 
Bobinski finds home on the mound 
The Observer Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 26 


.i 
I I 
I 
I 
~~ 
t 
•I I I 

The Observer Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 27 

Classifieds 
Nice house tor rent this summer. 
INotices Four-bedroom, quiet neighborhood, ten minutes from campus. Just across the II you will be here lor all or part of the river. Call 6637 for details. summer and are Interested in umpiring 
, Four-bedroom house lor rent this sum­boy's baseball at Northside Little League mer, semi-furnished. Cheap. Close to(near St. Joseph High School) please call 
Joe Kernan at 233-6668. 
campus on Francis St. Call 8847 or 8842. 
Room, house privilages in large house, on river. Ten minutes from campus. 
ATTENTION Lake of the Woods Camp lor girls in Kalamazoo needs office help, a Water 
288-3095, after 5. Safety Instructor, a gymnasticks Instruc­tor and kitchen help lor the summer. 
Large one bedroom apartment available Write to: 
on May 151or summer. I'll also rent it for Laurence Seger 
graduation only for parents and relatives. 1106V2 Portage, five minutes from
1765 Maple St. Northlled, IL 60093 
campus. Call Rick Coronado, 288-7651 or 6197. MORRISSEY LOAN FUND All Morrissey loans must be repaid by 
Need really big sound lor your next party? Two Peavey loudspeakers withMonday, May 7th. Those not repaid will 
be turned over to Student Accounts. 
300 wmixer/amp. Adapts to any system Penalty will be charged. 
for great sound magnification. Call Bob, 
3634. Anyone Interested In shipping with the Kansas City area truck, let us know. We will load on Sunday, May 13. Call Mike 
Wanted
(6721) or Keith (8634). 
Attention All Logan Volunteer and Inte­OVERSEAS JOBS--Summer/year round. rested Students! Europe, S. America. Australia. Asia, etc. The annual year end banquet Is this All fields, $500-$1200 monthly. Expenses
Saturday, May 5th, at 6:30p.m. at Logan paid. Sightseeing. Free info. write: IJC, Center. We need lots of help cooking! Box 52-14, Corona Del Mar. CA 92625. Friday night from 6:00 p.m.-8:00p.m. in the Logan kitchen, and also Saturday Summer Work Offer: Independentafter recreation. We also need help people needed lor Sales work lor the 
setting up lor the banquet, with moving summer. Reflective Arts sells bar and tables, etc. Also, we need empty wine old-fashioned art mirrors by using the bottles lor decorations. Please bring old-time street vendor approach and we them with you on Saturday! Please bring sell directly to stores. Exceptional profitsthem with you on Saturday! Questions lor enthusiastic people. Call Craig Imler call Mike 1371 or Sue 41-4832. at 277-4005 lor more information. 
Need two males to share atwo bedroom Campus View apartment. Call 1652 or 1714 (Dave).
Lost&Found 
Need two male housemates to share nice house. Cars useful. Call289-9498. 
LOST: NO blue and gold baseball hat in 
Wanted: a University
Stepan on Monday night at Chavez talk. If you are of 
Michigan bound graduate student seek­
Call 1863. 
ing apartment mate lor the coming year, please call Jackie at SMC 4562.
FOUND: In front of Fisher Hall. a silver 
key ring with aroom key and mail key for Wanted: Person(s) to rent one or two
room number 415. Call1986. 
bedroom apartment at Campus View for Fall of 79 only. Call Mike at 234-3574FOUND: Five basketballs found at after 6 p.m.
Stepan during bookstore. Call 8634 to 
identify. 
Addressers wanted Immediately Work at home--no experience necessary-­FOUND: NO class ring in Library Aud. 
excellent pay. Write American Service,Call Irene (6733) to identify. 
8350 Park Lane. Suite 127. Dallas. TX 75231.
LOST: A black handbag containing apair 
of earrings and a German passport. 
Wanted: used typewriter Call Mary
Probably lost on campus. Call Prof. 
287-6659 early evenings.
Hengleln at 4372. 
Male to share large, beautiful house onLOST: At Minnesota Club Picnic on river. Ten ,r:inutes from school.
Green Field -1 large baseball mitt. Call 288-3095 after 5.
Pete 8367. 
Wanted: research assistants neededLOST: Dunlop Maxiply tennis racquet 5-7-79 to 7-20-79 to work with exceptionalwhite Wilson headcover at Angela Athle­population. Call Steve evenings 277­tic Fac.. any Information to Its where­5883.
abouts call Teresa. 4722. 
Lost: one pair glasses. Near ballfield at 
Angela and Eddy. Call 289-3187. 
For Sale 
Lost: a blue racketball racket lost before Easter break on either NO or SMC Must sell queen s1ze sofa-bed, like new, campus. Please call 4606. $300, 272-6517 alter 9. 
Lost: one Pendleton hat, size: medium, Moving: by owneHri-level-central air-­color: beige. Lost at Senior Bar or vicinity four bedrooms, 1V2 baths, family room Thursday night. Call Dick 8544 or Mark with built-in bar. Reverewood--Misha­8540. waka, 255-5879, alter 4. Also furniture 
lor sale. Lost: GOld class ring St. Thomas Aquinas High School. Call Mary Ellen, Senior Sale: small refrig., $25, 20 Inch 272-5423. diag. black and white TV. $40. compact 
stereo system (good for singles) $50. Lost: keychaln with SMC 10. Desper­8788. ately need!! II found. call Rhonda, 4-1-4449. Women's three-speed Murray bike. Best 
offer. 6777. Lost: 25 yr. old NO jacket worn by my lather. Blue cotton jacket with yellow NO Acharming Cape Cod with enclosed front emblem. ·Name tag, M. Root In lining. porch, Northshore neighborhood, bright Call 8276 II found. modern kitchen, living room with fire­
place. dining room, two large bedrooms Lost: at Irish Wake. One lavortle brown upstairs, remodelled bath, private back­sweater with a suede front. Please call yard, one car garage, maintenance free Sue 7937 or return to Lost and Found. exterior. Please call 7308 or 287-1972. 
Lost: Franklin baseball mitt In North Fisher Hall residents: rust color draper­Dining Hall. Great sentimental value-­Ies and bedspread, room 229. Please--$$ reward. 6153. 
Sofa bed $20 three year old mattress, Lost: One engraved watch lost In LaFor­new couch cover. 8784 or 288-9098 tune Ballroom Sunday, April 29th. between 6-11 p.m. Personal value exceeds monetary value. Please contact John at 316 Stanford, For Sale: BIC 981 turntable. Stanton phone 283-8693. cartridge also. Good condition, need$$$. 
Call 6637, asking around $100. 
T-shirt closeout. We busted before Salt Lake City, but you can still get your Salt
For Rent 
Lake City or Bust t-shlrt before you oo 
home. Only $2 apiece or six for $101 
Apartment lor rent, one bedroom, dining Help me get rid of them! Contact Tlo at 
room, kitchen, and bath. Fully furnished, 4684 after 8 p.m. 
~nexpenslve, will accomodate two. 
Available now lor the summer or next '66 VW In very good condition. Asking seme~ter. $600. Negotiable. 289-9498. 
FOR SALE BY A SENIOR: Refrigerator­good deal -call Kathy at 41·5425. 
1977 Ford van, automatic V6 Econoline 
150. Shortbed, am-fm cb radio. Powersteering, powerbrake, sun roofs, cruise control. 25,000 miles, 233-7631. 
Easy chairs and arm chair, table. Call 8954. 
By owner: Clay Township (3 miles to NO) four-bedroom ranch, 1v2 baths, 21J2 car attached garage, fenced in backyard, lots of large trees, pool membership, excell~nt floor plan. 277-3289. 
Advent speakers, great condition, seven months old. Call Bill at 1520. 
Avanti small size refrigerator. Like new!! Asking $70. Call 4574. 
For sale, 1976 Honda 750, 287-0296 or 291-6910. 
Tickets 
Will trade my beautitul younger sister for 3 (three) graduation t1ckets. Or will pay cash. Call Drew, 4601. 
Wanted: graduation tickets--at least four! Call Mike at 6770. 
Need desperately six graduation tickets for family. Call Chris at 288-8021. 
I need graduation tickets. Will pay mone~l!! Call 3668. 
Desperately neeJ two graduation tickets, will pay$$$. Call 3673. 
Need Qne graduation ticket for brother-in­law to be. Call Don at 288-8021. 
Personals 
Keenan 4-north You need a shave! The Schick Chicks Regular, Menthol, LEMON, Lime, Extra Creamy 
All personals for the May 17th graduation Issue must be paid for before 4 p.m. today at the Observer office. absolute deadline. 
Need ride to Philadelphia area after 5-14. Will share driving and expenses. Call Karen 5366. 
Dave Mason (JT of 345 Stanford, Thanks for the mini-concert! Dawn (as in Tony Orlando and) 
Mike, Boop boop boop says it all. Carolyn 
To the cast and crew of "Amphytrion '79," 
ANOTHER ORGY-HOW BORING!!! Now that I have your attention. thanks for making my first show at ND-SMC a memorable one. I love you all! 
Minerva 
Special good-byes to: 
Carey, Mig-a, Sexy Sandy, Kristin, Ryan, the Little One, the Family, Andrea A., Margaret, Renee L., Christopher Antonio, 2A Fisher, the Bruces, Chitown Ray, Dodgeville, Wis., Sue S. and everyone else from New Jersey! 
HAVE A GREAT SUMMER!. 
Nell 
SOH East Dinner Crew Thanks for agreat year. Best of luck In the future. Tim 
Carey, 
"There are those who give and know not pain In giving, nor do they seek joy, nor give with mindfulness of virtue." 
That person Is you. 
"Your friend Is your needs answered ... when you part from your friend, you grieve not; for that which you love most In her may be clearer In her absence, as the mountain to the climber is clearer from the plain." 
That friend is you. 
Take care, Weeze. Have a nice day...everyday. 
I will miss you. 
Love, Neil PS--These aren't the flowers you wanted, but they won't die! 
Stinker's pub comas to Goose's. Friday, 
3 til&. 
B.J., 
Couldn't let you graduate without a personal from your sister. Hold out for the sun and sand so I can visit you! 
Love, Sloban 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00 p m .. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday. 10 00 a.m. to 5:00 p m. All cla~s1f1eds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail 
Get skunked with Stinker at Goose's, It's over! I have survived my first year Friday 3 til 6. here and am thankfully heading hoe to 
my cults in California, but first I want ot The Plastic Hymle Band In Concert next say something to those special to me: Saturday-Wow. ~Neil, Mary, Jeff, Shea, Maggie, Jenny, 
Eileen, Dalla, Christie, my family: Lisa, Last big happy hour before finals--Come Guammle, Mary Grace, Jeannie, Sharon, 
• see the goose, Friday 3 til 6. Cathy, P.J., Hymie, Bea, Brigid, Margie, Carolyn, "Tall Cutle", Frank, Pete, the "Capitol Cutle Pie"--Hose, Kevin, Ron, Dan and the rest of the You always have my heart--Bruces, Fr. Griffin, Darby, my section Your K-Mart sweetheart brothers from 4B Fisher, my friends from ps--I still do! Za, my Farley foxes: Katie, Ann, Carol, Aileen; D.V.T., Cathy, Charlotte, Ray, Ms. Right, Pat, Venus and the rest of my cohorts at I don't see how you do It--you're WSND, Kathy W., and the rest of my everything to everybody! I wanna say fellow Miceli survivors from last semes­"Thanx" and "Happy Friday!" ter, Ellen, Ginger, Julie. the lour colums Lotsa love, of virtue, the Dillon three--Bruce Dave, Mr. right and Paul, my pals at the Observer, my PS--Is it too late to make reservations for senior friends: Sue W., Theresa G., sen lor year? Janet, Sue, Mark, Scott, Larry, Dave, Connie P., E.J.; my humanities class­Margie--mates and Fr. Weiher, Steve "Reno", Happy birthday eight days early, I'll Brian, Gejjl, Anne, Norman, plus each meet you In Aruba (well, Kankakee at and every one of my friends, and least.) finally...to my love and future spaghetti Love, cook Teresa. You have all contributed to 
Michael making me what I am--so you can only blame yourselves. Thanks for the best nine months of my life, see you In three months.
One hundred free drink tickets to a pub In Bye-bye,Chi-town at Goose's Friday, 3 til 6. 
Ryan alias Tip, Moonle, Apollo, the Madhatter,
The Stones? Live?? Yes, (and soon.) 
Captain Video, Fearson, Pearson, and Sourdough.
PHI LA. CLUB BAGGAGE TRUCK SPECIAL PERSONAL:Five dollar deposit must be paid by 
Contrary to popular opinion, PhilFriday, May 4. Call Marla 3433, Mike Cackley Is not arazor-breathing monster.
1626, Joe 1802, or Jeff 1000. 
He's really not a bad guy -after all, he taught me just about everything I knowTo the Ind. who "I i berated" my yellow about Copy Editing, and even though I
Jansport back pack from the Rock on Fri. 
hate to admit It, I'm really appreciative.
4-27--Keep the pack and calculator, but Good luck In New Mexico, and on yourplease deposit the books and notes at the entrance Into the real world.
Rock or South Dining Hall. 
John McGrath 
P.S. Congratulations on your award!
OOOH THE DOPETROTTERS!!! OOOH THE MErS!!! 
Dear Domers,OOOH NEW JERSEY!!! 
Junior year was the PIT! Thanks lor ruining another year of my life. When IHolly Ann, go to great places I wonder where all theHappy second anniversary to the cutest 
jerks are. They're at the Dome.
member of the new Senior Bar-War staff. Congratulations! I I.W.M.V.A.S.A P. 
Kubus and Smitty,
Love, 
We're gonna miss you-you knew that.
Piranha Kubus, get a job. Smitty, get to work. We love ya.
Colleen, 
The Girls
Hope you have better luck in finals than in shooting pool. 
To all Observers SMC staff (Le. Ellen,Brian Margie, X-staffer Pam. Mary Pat, ThePS--Could you even see the cue ball? 
Renegade and the Stranger, Ann the Barber, Terri, Madhouse Melanie, DebRock-ers! Listen to "Anything Goes" lor (who showed me the ropes) and everyoneyour kind of music Sunday at 2 on 
who added spice to the winterWSND--great album giveaway too. 
newsroom ... Thanks lor the good times!
Thanks to all those who helped me at John McGrath
this year, especially Ann, Mike, Rose­mary, Phil, Sue, Diane, Mark, Scoop, 
MATT HAWS -What can I say aboutKathy, and everyone who made my first 
Matt Haws? Nothing that hasn't beenyear a little easier--and a lot more said before. He looks like Potsle and 13 Ishectic--than it otherwise would have his favorite age In girls.
been. 
Kim Devaney
Have agreat summer John McGrath 
Joan Fallon, I've always tried to be like Joe, but ITom, guess I've failed. Life's ab----h, ain't It?
Hope your 19th Is the greatest! 
Rendezvous tonight at 3:05.
Loveya', Julie 
Mary Beth Greene-Your letter to me sparked the romanticAI, 
fire which burns deep within my heart.
Hey brithday boy, don't let the week get I've got to tell the world how much I loeyou down! Good luck with finals. 
you. Not much really, but I've seen youMargie and Kathy 
get undressed and that's all that matters. Rendezvous tonight at 3 In the back seat6C Grace: of my car where we can both throw uP.
Thanks for letting me be a section girl 
(you for the second time). And don tthis year. Love ya! 
bring that bald basketball player withCarolyn you. He's ugly.
PS--They're fine, thanks. 
Flo Is cute.
To our favorite Alumni boys: J.G., M.Mc., M.M., P.O., M.C., D.O., 
Beth Cassin,
F.S., N.C., K.Y., F.C., M.R., C.A., 
You are one fine lady and one line
B.H., et. al. We had a scream. Take 
friend!
roadtrlps. Love ya, love, Traclklns3C, I, m344 Farley 
Scoop, Happy Birthday LJR, Good luck on the job • It'll all settle 21 years of many experiences hope all down pretty soon. Take care and have a next year's will be the best memories. good summer. We love you. Mardi 
BW's 
P.S. Have you read the regulations Jake Morrissey, concerning button down shirts In the du 
. Here's the personal you've been Lac for next year? lookIng for all year. See-? Someone cares. Cheer up, the end is almost here. Dan, 
It's been an Interesting and fun To Everyone, sememster. Thanks for beng around This Is the last Scoop Sullivan personal 
when I need a friend. I'll try to Improve for the year. Thanks for puttlrg up with the neurosis next fall. Have a fun my pathetic literary ramblings. To 9-0, 
summer and don't get too much sun. the memor1'es of you guys are too 
Me shocking to be erased. To 911, two will be gone, but we will carry on. To The 
Cell (the woman who has everything), Observer, I look forward to next year. To It's been fun working and chatting with 
the friends I made, bless you all. your all year. I'll miss you • but we'll Scoop 
keep in touch. Have a good summer. love, Mardi Mom & Dad, It's almost time for the thundering Ox, 
herd to hit home for the summer. Just What can I say? You are the finest and think, five kids again. always will uo, so please don 'I ever love, Diane and Betsy 
change! 
love, little Lamb
P.S. How do you like your first personal?? 

Friday, May 4, 1979 -page 28 
Blue-Gold climaxes spring play 
by Mark Perry replace Joe Montana. Rusty players who saw considerable Sports Editor Lisch and Tim Koegel have acuon last year, at center, in emerged as the leading candi­the battle to succeed Dave 
The annual Blue-Gold game, dates. Huffman, and also at the split signaling the conclusion of the ''Lisch and Koegel know they end spot bacated by Kris spring football practice sessions have a load on their shoul­Haines. at Notre Dame, has not always ders," Toman added, "and On the defense, replace­been known for featuring much th~y have been receiving the ments are needed for line­excitement. But things might total cooperation of the rest of backers Bob Golic and Steve be a little different this year. the team. Everybody wamts Heimkreiter, and both the 
With five starters on both the them to do well.'' tackle spot, and at free safety. offensive and defensive squad Other spots to watch on the All this competition should returning from last year's offense will be at tight end, make for an exciting game, as squad, there has been quite a where the Irish rerun' four [continued on page 24] battle for the twelve remaining starting slots. For those in­volved, the spring game will be their last chance for awhile to 
Meyers makes transition 
show that they belong in those positions. 
by Brian Beglane When Merv Johnson, assis-
The competitive attitude on 
Sports Writer tant head coach and offensive this year's team has been coordinator for the Irrish for strong, and has made for a From the sunny skies and four years, left the staff for strong spring session. "The warm temperatures of Californ-Oklahoma University this past whPie ream has shown superior ia to the erratic weather of winter, the spot for an offensive attitude this spring," com­South Bend. coach opened up and Meyers mented Irish assistant Ron That is just one of the ways to was named replacement Febru­Toman. ''I would have to say describe the move made by Bill ary 23. This followed a seven that we are even ahead of · Meyers, the newest member of year stint as a coach at two west where we were last spring.'' the Notre Dame football coach-coast schools, California-Berk­
The position that everyone ing staff, when he accepted the eley and Santa Clara. position of offensive line coach ''I'm very pleased and excit­
AlrAmerican c·andidate Vagas Ferguson wtfl display his will be watching Saturday is at 
some four months ago. But ask ed about getting the job,"
ability in Sunqay 's Blue-Gold game. quarterback, as the Irish seek to 
the 32-year-old Meyers if he enthuses Meyers. "As far as I minds the change tn climate, am concerned, coaching at and you'll get an -emphatic Notre Dame is the epitome of "no". college football coaching. I
Offense seeks heir to Montana 
''I'll tell you," says the 1972 attended and coached at raduate of Stanford, "in the schools where academics and
g
Our months I have been here I thl t' r both t'mp rtant
by.Mark Perry New offensive line coach Bill this year. Senior Kevin Hart, a e ICS we e o , . d b h J. uniors Marty Detmer and Nick guess I have seen some erratic but Notre Dame has got a lot ofSports Editor Meyers IS encourage Y t e eather. 1 don't mind it a bit, tradition. The tradition sets play of the line this spring. Vehr, and sophomore Dean though. I am finally getting this place off from the rest, and 
When the Notre Dame foot­"Th' ' f linemen Masztak all saw action last
IS year s group 0 adjusted to moving here and am I am very excited about being a ball team entered spring prac­is a very physical group, and yeal. Masztak was the lf'adling excited about it. Hey, it rains in part of it." tice in early April, the biggest are all extremely intelligent," [contimtrd nn t>a}!,t' ..'21 California too.'' lnmtznwd on page 22]
question on everyone's mind Mever<: ~~id. ''They work well~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ was who would succeed J ·•t· together as a unit." Montana as the head of the There are·. a few question Irish offense. A month later marks for the rest of the Irish 
Defense must rebuild on youth
that issue is still up in the air. offense, but the situation if 
by Paul Mullaney we
But for the Notre Dame pretty similar to that at quarter­· ing to do this year, just as Kelly looking intently for indi­coaching staff, the task of back. The Irish list only five Assistant Sports Editor did last year,'' confessed viduals ready to play. choosing ·a starting quarterback returning starters. from last Yonto. "Last year, though, we "I don't believe we're very is a pleasant dilemma. Lack of year's squad, but feature sev­All the so-called '-"experts" had to fill holes on the outside. deep right now,'' admitted ca!ididate.s :fro that prec-tigious eral players who have had quite had Notre Dame pegged before This year, we. ve got to fi II the Kelly. ''The backups will have job is not <!P!' ,,f rhcir prublesm. a bit of game experience. the start of last football-season. gaps:on the : nside. '' to imprpve quite rapidly. We 
"Rust~ ·LI~(·I,. Tim Koegel. .The Irish, they said, would Foremost uf the inside holes
The offens~ve line looks very need at least six linebackers 
have no trouble'. putting points
and l\like ~uu1 e,y have ;1ll been strong, as Notre Dame returns to fill is the absence of All­capable of starting, not just 
having . goo-d·. springs," com­on the board. But the question American middle l111~·harker backing up.'' · . ·
three staners ·and one former 
was whether or not they .could Golic. And the loss -of his
mented Iri-sh quartf'rhack coach starter. Left tackle Rob Mar~ While Kelly has had .his eves 
keep the opponents from doing
Ron Toni:ui "and Lisch· and tinovich, right guard Tim Huff sidekick, Steve Heimkreiter, on more than six bar:keri-. during 
.
Koegel . h<rye been espe1 ially man, and rigli.t tackle Tim likewise. · leaves linebacker coach George [<untwued on pa~, 24)
And it didn't take any longer
impres~··-, -· Foley.-: Horansky sat out last 
than the first game of the year
''The most'. important thing season after injuring his ankle 
for Irish Defensive Coordinator
that I have .seem from them in the Missouri game, and 
Joe YO!'JtO . to show he had
(Lisch and' Koegel) is that should fill the gap at' left guard. 
molded another stalwart point­
neither of them has thrown the Competiton has been ·strong 
prevention squad--rlf'<:pite the
ball just for the sake of throw­for the center position; vacated 
loss of Ross Browner, Willie
ing ir," · Toman continued. after three years by Dave 
Fry, Luther Bradley. Ted Burg­
''When there are no open Huffman, drafted yesterday by meier and Duug Becker.
receivers. they just keep the the Minnesota Vikings. Junior 
Add such names as Bob
ball and r.un ... John Scully and senior Jeff 
Golic, Steve Heimkreiter, Mike
So the job of picking a starter Crippin are the leading candi­
Calhoun and Jeff Weston to the
boils down to choo'-'iPl! tn,m dates to fill the position, with 
updaterllist of bygones, but by
several qualified candidates. Scully at the top of the depth"There's no que~ri,lll about It, chan going into the Blue-Gold no means underestimate the job 
Yonto and crt"w will probably
we would like tu have our game. 
have done by the time Septem­
quarterback situation settle this The Irish used several 
ber 15 and the Michigan Wol­
spring, .. Toman said. "We are pcuplc at the tight end position verines roll around.
not about to rush this thing, last year, and four return to 
I 
"We've got a lot of rebuild-
however.·· probably share t! ~ duty again 
~ Netn1en approach 20-~in n1ark 
by Afichael Ortman and Bill Pratt -a close group of tions of many. With three Sports U"nter friends. matches Femaining, the team Any team spends a lot of time stands at 17-8 with an excellent togehter, but on this team, shot at becoming only the third 
"Away," "Krut." "Pooh perhaps more than others. Irish tennis team ever to put Bear." "Blood," "Gzartzell," This group has been together ·away a 20-win season. "TR-6." and "Rat." since last September, practic­"I really didn · t think rhat we 
Just like many groups of ing. hoping to improve on last had improved that much. close friends. the Notre Dame year's 12-14 record. personnel-wise,'· said coach varsm tennis players have ..Now, two months of competi­Tom Fallon. "But I have been 
nicknames for each other. tion, 3,000 highway miles pleasantly surprised to say the RespKtively. they are Mark cramped in a van, a trip to least. The biggest difference 


Hoyer, Carlton Harris, Herb California, and 25 matches from last year has been the 
Senior linebacker Bobby Leopold should become a stalwart
Hopwood. Mark Trueblood, later, those hopes have been spirit on this team. It has really 
performer for the Insh in 1979. [photo by Doug Chrzstian] 
Tom Hartzell,-Tom Robison, realized beyond the expecta­
[c19ntinued on page 22] 

