... Bookstore basketball -page 12 
I 
l I 
1 
I 

Board ofCommissioners 
approves list of proposals 
by Sue Wuetcher Senior StaffReporter 
The Board of Commissioners has approved a list of proposals to be presented to the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of 
Trustees on May 3. 
Two representatives from InPIRG will present their peti­tion concernmg their proposed funding mechanism to the Trustees for approval. Student Bodv President Bill Roche and Student Bodv Vice President Bill Vita will 'address rhe Trus­tees on rhe changes in the wmpositon of the Campus Life Council. These changes mclude the addition of the Off-Campus Commissioner and rhe Judicial Coorciinator. to the Campus Life Council. 
Judicial Cnordinaror Jim O'Hare will speak on the cur­rent status of the Judicial Council. Studenr Government HPC and CLC liason Frank Guilfoyle will give the Trustees a report on social space on campus, presenung request forms from individual halls for social space. Off Campus Commissioner Shannon Neville will present an off campus report. 
In other business at last night's meeting, the Board unanimously approved a food sales policy which had been presented by Roche. 
He explained that as it stands now, there is no set food sales policy. He noted that John Reid, director ofStudent Activi­ties, is contemplating clarifying the policy in du Lac to allow the sale of food items only. 
Roche's proposal stated that ''A hall food sales shall sell food items, non-alcoholic beve­rages, and no more than ten items from a predetermined list of no less than 25 non-food items. This list shall be determined by a group consist· 
I think the policy i.s 
as flexible as you can get 
taking into account 
both sides ofthe issue 
ing of four food sales managers to be elected by all of the food sales-managers, and the Direc­tor of Student Activities. This group shall review the list at least twice a year and at other · 
times  during  the  year  at  the  
group's discretion ."  
''I  think  the  policy  is  as  

flexible as you can get taking into account both sides of the issue,'' Roche said. 


Facul~y, course changes accompan.Y new semester 
by Mark Rust News Editor 

Most students on campus will 
pick-up cards today for next 
semester, a semester character­
ized by a few faculty changes 
and an infusion of new courses, 
primarily in the College of Arts 
and Letters. While the depart­
ment chairmen in the College of 
Business re{>ort that there will 
be no-. sigmficant changes in 
their area next year, the other 
colleges--Arts and Letters, 
Science and Engineering--show 
numerous changes. 
The Art, Economic and His­tory departments each report one new course. ''Art and Religion" which will be taught by Douglas Kinsey, will explore the relationship between man's art and his relisious aspira­tions. The coursers cross-listed with Theology 355. 
In the department of Econo­mics Richard Newfarmer will introduce a course entitled 
•'Corporate Power and Indus­trial Organization.'' The 400 level course will attempt to measure the impact of different corporate structures on the economy. 
The History department will 
continue its mini-courses next 
semester, which department 
chairman Fr. Marvin O'Connell 
says have been "quite success­
ful.'' The History department 
has added one new course-­
History 301--which will be 
taught by Frederick Pike and a 
team of eight professors. The 
course will be concerned with 
the domination of imperial 
powers over colonial peoples. 
The English Department also 
plans to continue their mini­courses which ''have worked .out quite well,'' according to 
Acting Chairman Thomas 
Werge. The department has 
also added an "Afro-American 
Literature" course, tau~ht by 
Linda Beard, which will 'add a 
new dimension to the depart­
ment," according to Werge. 
American Studies plans to expand their internship pro­gram next semester with addi­tional spots at the South Bend Tribune, WNDU, Notre Dame Press, the Archives, Historical Preservation Society of South Bend and Discovery Hall Museum at the Century Center. The work-study spots are open 
[Continued on page 2) 

JACKSON, Miss. (AP) Hundreds of residents down­stream of flooded Jackson fled their homes yesterday as the surging Pearl River defied fore­casts and edged higher. In Alabama, thousands were eva­cuated as new flooding threat­ened. 
And to the south, the Army Corp of Engineers said yester­day it would open the Bonnet Carre Spillway, hoping to slow the ristng Mississippi River before it strains the levees protecting New Orleans. 
Officials here have estmated that more than 17,700 persons already have been flooded out in the metropolitan area. 
Sandbag  levees  designed  to  
stem  the  rising  Pearl  were  
holding.  

Evacuations were underway in the downstream cities of Georgetown, Monticello and Columbia, where officials said as many as 2,000 persons might leave. 
"We're prepared for the worst in case it happens,'' said Monticello Mayor TommyJ oily, "We're movin~ people out of low areas now. ' 
President Carter on Monday 
·designated the state a disaster area, making thousands offlood victims eligible for federal assistance. In :addition to flood losses, much of the state exper­ienced extensive property and road damage because of torren­tial rains last week. 
In Alabama, the number of 
' people evacuated because of floods rose towards 5,000 yesterday with as • many as 3,000 people in and around Selma being evacuated. More than 600 families were eva­cuated at Demopolis. 
"A lot of people won't come out until they're forced to and that's bothersome," said Selma's Civil Defense director, Warren Rhoades. "We're goin_g to have an awful time getung everyone out at once and I expect a lot of people to be evacuated tonight.' 
After one rescue boat spent an hour getting to a woman in a house near Selma, she asked: "Can I take my stereo and television?'' 
"No, m'am." 
"Well, I'll see you later," 
[Cc ntinued on page 7] 

Tenure createsproblems 
by Rob Powers StaffReporter 
Tenure has created a web of problems for American colleges, according to a recent Wall Street journal article. "Tenure can lead to the retention of the least creative faculty members and to the extrusion of the most creative," an athropologist commented. 
At Notre Dame, 360 out. ofa faculty of650 research and teaching fellows are tenured. According to Assistant Provost Sister John Miriam Jones, this ratio is in keeping with the recommendations of the American Association of University Presidents (AAUP) that tenure be limited to 50-65 percent of the faculty. ''This allows for a larger percentage of new talent," Jones said. · 
The article pointed to Muhlenburg Collge, a small liberal arts college in Pennsylvania, which has kept a moratorium on tenure spots since 1974 becanse 72 percent of the faculty was already tenured. The administration will continue the ban until 1982, when the tenure level is expected to decline to 66 percent. 
Eighty temporary teachers, hired for a limited time and not on tenure track, account for only !0-15 percent of the faculty at Notre Dame. At Columbia University, temporary, non-tenure track teachers comprise the bulk of the faculty in the humanities. Only ei~ht tenure track jobs were offered there last year, as compared wtth 30 in 1968. 
Jones pointed out that both the advantages and disadvantages 
[Continued on page 6) 

I 
l l I 
I 
~ 
f 
--------------~ 
News in brief 
Whereabouts o_fIdi A min remain a mystery in Uganda 
NAIROBI, Kenya (AP)--The whereabouts of ousted dictator Idi Amin remained a rumor-shrouded mystery yesterday, a week after the Ugandan capital of Kampala fell to Tanzanians and his exile enemies. While some reports placed him in Libya -presumably a safe haven since Libyan leader Moammar Khadafy has been a staunch ally -others said he was in his northwestern Uganda tribal homeland. Still others :;aid the self-proclaimed "president for life and conqueror uf rhe British Empire" had fled to a neighboring COUntr). 
Supreme Court will rule against ·media in pending case 
WASHINGTON (AP)--A report that may represent a major breach in the secret deliberations of the Supreme Court says the justices have decided against the news media in a ruling that could alter the nation's libel law. In nationally televised reports Monday night and yesterday morning, ABC News sa1d the court soon will rule that pubhc figures suing for 1ilwl may ask what a journalist's ' state of mind'' was while preparing the challen~ed news story. The reJ;>Ort said Justice Byron R. White is wnting the court's majonty opinion, and that]ustice William H. Rehuquist is joimng Whtte. 
Alabama Supreme Court sets new execution date for Evans 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. (AP)--The Alabama Supreme Court yesterday set a new execution date of April 27 for]ohn Louis Evans III, the condemned killer who beat the electric chair by only six hours. But because of a new appeal filed on behalfofEvans, there appears little chance the execution will be carried ouc then. 
Weather 

Sunny and warmer today. Highs in the low to mid 60s. 
Increasirg cloudiness and mild at night.  Lows in the mid the Little Theatre at  
40s.  ·Xi arm  tofllorrow  with  a  chance  for  showers  and Mary's this afternoon  
thunderstorms.  ~ lighs around 70.  

t---------------------------------4 
CamR::::::::::u==s=~ 
12:15 pm --SEMINAR, "a microbiologisc's aJventure in industry," dr. robert erickson, miles lab., GALVIN AUD. 
3:15 pm --LEC1URE, alice mitchell rivlin, (Ongressional budget director, LAW SCHOOL LOUNGE 
3:30 
pm --LEC1URE, "overture in the divine comedy," prof. thomas bergin, yale u., 715 MEM. LIB. 

3:30 
pm --SEMINAR, "recent radiation trar:;J?flrt methods development of los alamos scientific laboratones,'' warren miller, u. of california, 303 ENGR. BLDG. 


4:30pm--SEMINAR, "sensory motor functons of the basal ganglia," dr. howard strahlendorf, texas tech., GALVIN AUD. 
4:30pm--LEC1URE, "the methylene singlet-triplet energy splitun," prof. richard zare, 123 NIEUWLAND 
5:15pm--FASTER'S MASS, WALSH CHAPEL 
5:30pm--LEC1URE, "before you take the plunge in the. job world," ms. andrea roy, south bend personnel dept., CARROLL HALL SMC 
6:30pm--MEETING, sailing club, 204 O'SHAG 
7:CO pm --SLIDE PRESENTATION, "arte hispano­marroqui," jose manuel garzon, STAPEL TON LOUNGE SMC 
7 & 9 pm --FILM, "the absent-minded professor," ENGR. AUD., free 
7:30pm --. 'JDE PRESENTATION, christina ramberg & philip hanse vislting chicago artists, 105 O'SHAG 
7:30 pm --AMERICAN SCENE CUL1URAL SERIES, ''sexism, racism & multicultural education: its implications for school & society," lloyd barbee, CARROLL HALL SMC 
1 

---~ ~-------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, April18, 1979 -page 2 
... Changes 
[Continued from page 1] teach ''The Early Christian 
World.'' Peli, a rabbi, has only to American Studies recently narrated a PBS pro­majors. gram on ] udaism called "The 
The Department of Philo­Long Search.'' sophy will add two courses next A special interdisciplinary semester, one of which will be course listed under Theology taught by a visiting professor for the first time this year will "War, Law and Ethics" will feature four diverse viewpoints on those topics. John Yoder, a theologian; ] ames Sterba, a philosopher; Basil O'Leary of the theology program and Lt. Col. Henry Gordon of the ROTC 
from Oxford. Lillis Domingo, currrently at Oxford, will teach "Philosophy of An and Litera­ture,'' a course that will explore 

the nature of aesthetic experi­ence and the ontology of the art object. The department will also add "Informal Logic" to its scheduled course offerings. 
The Theology Department has added four new courses which will be taught by visiting 
Engineers
professors from all around the world. Niels Rasmussen, cur­
Examine Our Career Opportunities 
rently at the University of 
Before Making That Decision! 
Aarus in Denmark, will teach ''The Theology of Eucharist''; . Phinhas Peli, now at th· {In i· 
There are openings in High Tech­
versity at Beer-Sheva in]eru­
nology Research and Development
salem, will lecture c·n tht relationship between Jcwish for Mechanical and Aeronautical Engi­
prayer and other prayer· forms; 
neers. Discuss your career interests
Fr. Frank Podgorski, at present a Seton Hall professor, will with one of our engineers. teach "Mysticism East and West"; and Sean Freyne, now at I.oy,>la in New Orleans, will 
Call toll free weekdays 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
SMCstudent 
800-243-3343 
to present piano recital PRATT &WHITNEY AIRCRAFT GROUP
Maria Lisa Ceraso will pre­sent a student piano recital in Saint at 4:30 
p.m. The public in invited to attend. · 
Her program will include Sonata in F Major, op. 10 no. 2 by Beethoven, Prelude Bruyeres and Prelude Ondine by Debussy, Impromptu in F# 
An Equ•l Opporlunily Employer
Major, op. 36 by Chopin and Four Piano Blues by Copland. Ms. Ceraso is a senior from ~~~~ Leechburg, Pennsylvania. She 
UNITED
is working toward a bachelor of 
TECHNOLOGIES
music degree in applied piano. Her applied teacher is ] effrey Jacob, a member of the Saint Mary's College Music Depart­ment. 
The Observer [USPS 598 920] Is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 par semester] from The Observer, P. 0. box 0, Notre bame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
The Observer !s a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Wednesday, Aprill8, 1979 -page 3 
ND n1ay offer ne-w course in fall covering 19th century studies 
by John McGrath "What we're trying to do is 
Senior StaffReporter recreate a slice of the 19th 
century," Manier explained. 
''The cours.e will tie together 

Pending final approval on a the history of 19th century $20,000 grant request, Notre social thought, with an examin­Dame plans to offer a new ation of Tocqueville and Marx, course this fall designed to and 19th century scientific ad­integrate a wide range of. 19th vances, with a look at Darwin." century institutions and Manier developed the outline studies. for the new course, which will 
Edward Manier, associate be known as "Evolutionary professor of philosophy, and Images of Humanity," during the man who devised the the year he spent as a fellow at course, noted that the class will the National Humanities Insti­examine the role played by 19th tute at the University of Chi­century literature, politics, art, cago in 1977. The theme of the and science in transforming three-year institute, which has Enlightenment period ideals run from 1976 through the into 20th century theories of present year, is "Technology modernization and industrial­and the Humanities," so it was ization. only natural for Manier to 

by Michael Lewts Executive News Editor 
The Indiana State Police will file theft charges against three Notre Dame students who have been accused of stealing three highway barricades worth approximately $70. 
The charges will be for­warded to the St. Joseph County prosecutor's office, where a decision will be made whether or not co file a warrant for the students' arrest. 
Dean of Students James Roemer said he expects the case to proceed through regular le~al channels. 
'I think it will go through the court process," Roemer said. "My conversations with the State Police indicate that they have enough evidence to take it to court, although it's hard to say at this point what the prosecutor will decide." 
Roemer also said he will not take any action in the case unless it is referred to him by the prosecutor's office. "I think the court process ought to be a sufficient deterrent,'' he explained. 
The students allegeply picked up the barricades on the Indiana toll road neanhe South Bend exit toll booth. The state police noted the license number of the student's car, and traced it back to the campus. 
They then called Notre Dame Security for a verification of the car's description. A joint effort of the state police and Security located the students on the campus. 
Amphytrion 
needs ushers 
Ushers and ticket takers are needed for the production ''Amphytrion.'' 
Call Phil Johnson at 8992, Mary Jo Hicks at 4-4157 or the Speech and Drama Office 4-1-4141 for more information. 

construct a curri!2ulum based on this theme. 
The class, as envisioned now, will consist of two sections, one for freshmen, and the other for upperclassmen. Credit for the course will be granted on the 375 level of Philosophy, His­tory, or English. 
In addition to Manier, who will teach the course, there will be appearances by four guest professors from the College of Arts and Letters. John ) . McDonald, associate professor of English will discuss the influences made by Emerson, Greenough and Whitman on 19th century society, while Philip Gleason, professor of history, will examine migra­tions that took place during the time with a special emphas1s on Tocqueville' s Democracy In Amen·ca. William Solomon, associate professor of philo­sophy, will discuss 19th century ethics in his guest appearance, and Marjorie Kinsey, adjunct assistant· professor of an, will examine the art, particularly the painting, of the period. 
A lar~e pan of the cost of the institution of the new course is to be underwritten by·a $20,000 grant from the National En­
dowment! for the Humanities. 
NEH will pay for faculty . sal­aries as well as materials such as slide8, films, and reserve books for the course under ·proposecl grant. 
Manier submitted the pro­posal for Evolutionary Images of Humanity to the NEH last year, but has indicated that he must further clarify his plans for implementing the objectives of the course in another pro­posal before. the grant is finally approved. 
"I'm pretty confident about the outcome, " Manier noted. 
Manier emphasized that he would like to see students from all four colleges take the course because of its integrated nature and its relevancy to our modern culture. 
''The course will provide a background for an analysis of the problems we face in the 20th century about the impact 
· of industrialization on our cul­ture," Manier explained. There will be two required texts for the course, both authored bY. Manier. The first is a compilation of selections from the authors to be ex· amined during the course of the ~emester, and the second is Manier's recently published book, The Young Darwin and Hzs Culture Circle. 
~G&~OB8 
BGWBQI'J.CRSAGG~ 
......
~···· 
»J.tJJ.s~~G~JB 
o:~r:E]Il 

IDOIIW/118~ ~ J~l,l81nr\V&l£l 
EGH ~llllW lLllti'/Jlrl"OW ~:Jl:Jl £1~1'1~3ll~ 'Yl"J:l~l'J LI:J!':.!':Il:l:a! 


The Notte Delme Student Pl<lyets 
and Student Union Cultural Arts Commission 
ptoudly ptesent 
===~EXPOS 

AComedy by Jack Sharkey 
Thurs-Fri., April19-20 8:00pm Mon-Tues., Apri123-24 8:00pm LaFortune Basement (NAZZ ) admission Jl.OO 
The Observer Wednesday, Aprill8, 1979 -page 4 
Wed. April18 Thurs. April19 
Fri. April2G 
Sat. Apri121 
Sun. April22 Mon. April23 


''The Absent-Minded Professor" 7 ,9,11 Eng. Aud. 
''Dr. Syn, Alias the Scarecrow" 7,9,11 Eng. A ud. ''Double Exposure' '' ND Student Players 8 pm Nazz 
''That Dam Cat'' 7 ,9,11 Eng. Aud. ''Double Exposure'' 
''Pete's Dragon'' 7,9:15, 11:30 Eng. Aud. 
''The Rescuers'' 7 ,9,11 Eng. Aud. 
"Bambi" 7 ,9,11 Eng. A 11 Double Exposure' ' 
With variety show 
Saint Mary's kicks.: off An Tostal 
I 

by Pam Degnan  Various  types  of music  in­ hours, the Regina Talent Show  
StaffReporter  cluding jazz, folk and rock will  and individual club functions.  
compliment  the evening's  ac­ Mary Jo  Ptacin  and  Adri  
Saint Mary's will kick-off An  tlvmes.  Campus  and  local  Trigiani,  co-chairmen  of  the  
Tostal with an "Evening for· the  musical groups will be featured  event, encourage the commun­ 
Children,"  a  variety  benefit  throughout the program.  ity to attend the benefit show.  
show on Tuesday, April 24 at 8  The benefit is the finale to a  "We feel like we've planned  
p.m. in Angela Athletic Facil­ year long effort on the part of  an exotic, exhilarating evening  
Ity.  Admission for students i·;  many students in raising money  of dazzling entertainment.  We  
$1  and  $2. 50  for  the general  for the Saint Jude's Children's  encourage the whole commun­ 
public  All proceeds  wili  be  Hospital. Some of the activities  ity to come out and support our  
d'"'"'''-d to the St. Jude Chil­ that were sponsored throughout  fund  raising  drive  for  the  
dren· s Hospital.  the year for this charity drive  children in SaintJude's Hospi­ 
The-show, which is composed  include dorm and class happy  tal, Trigiani said.  
of talent from both campuses,  

will feature the final perfor­mance of the Toe-Tapping Trio and the jazz routine of Debra Sedore and the Sedore-ettes. 
Other activities scheduled for the evening include an excerpt from A Sleazy Bus Station, a comedy play recently reviewed at the Indiana Playwright's Fair. The benefit will also mark the on-stage ·debut of the Outcasts, a comical-improviza­tional group. 
RecordSales to distribute 
albums 

DATI  Placen1ent Bureau A1. llo\ JIG SC Ul - 
April 18  
Wed.  X X .X Comten, Inc Communications Systems. BM in EE for Tech Rep. in Chicago area. BM in Math. Camp Sci for Systems Analyst in St. Louis, St. PauL All BBA for Marketing rep. in Chicago area. Citizenship required.  
April 19  
.Thurs.  X X Associates ConunerciaJ Corporation, Equipment Financing Division of Gulf & WestPrn Co. $3 Billion outstanding. 9000 employees. B in Econ, Mgt, Fin for Management Train tog Program: Exhilarated 12-16 week basic. opera­tions running Commercial Finance Branch. Full service Fin'imcing Sp~.>.cialist leading to Supervisory position. Locations: Throughout U.S .• Canada, Great Britain, Puerto. Must be citizens of U.S. or Canada. X X ~ X X Dl•partment of the Air Force. Offic2r Program BM in all Engr and Sci disciplines for Development Engr, Weather Space Systems, Computer Officer, Pilots, Navi­gators. BM in Lib. Arts and Bus. Ad. for Personnel, Acquisition, Finance, Budget, Acct as well as PilotsI , and Navigators. Nationwide. Citizenship required. Hackley Enterprises Amwny Di stri buthrshi p, Distributor for approximately 2100 products. B in allI+. disciplines. Type of position: Distributor. Location:  
Nation\olide and overseas. Citizenship not reqUired.  

Backorder albums will be distributed next week, accord­ing to SU Record sale coordin­
CSPA awards Observer
ator Curt Hench. The delivery of the albums was delayed by the Teamsters strike last week. "Fathers and Sons (whole­
'Medalist ' ranking
sale record company in Indian­apolis) knew about the up­coming trucker's strike and didn't send the albums out," In a recent rating by Colum­Classification of the entry isHench said. "As soon as the bia Scholastic Press Associa­determined by the method ofstrike was over they sent them tion, The Observer received 928 production, the type of publica­out. " points and obtained a ''Medal-tion, and the type of enrollment · The albums will be distri­1st" ranking in the college/­of the institution. This allowsbuted Monday through Friday university d1vision. The rating · the entry to be compared withfrom 12 to 4 p.m. at the Ticket covered issues from Jan. those of a similar nature.
Office. Refunds will be made at through Dec. of 1978. Announcement ofthe standings that time. 
According to the Association were made at the annual con­Defective albums may be scorebook, the "Medalist" vention of the C.S.P.A. held inreturned for exchange from ranking is granted to publica­mid-March in New York City.
Wednesday through Thursday 
tions from the First Place ratings. "This honor, the

of next week at the Ticket Office The Observer received its from 12 to 4 p.m. There will be Association's highest ranking, highest ranking in the area of no refunds or exchanges on is based on those intangible content/coverage. Of a pos­defective albums without the qualities which become ev1dent sible 225 points, The Observer 
purchaser's copy of the order to the judges which could be was awarded 219. In the area of form. Further details will characterized as the 'person­writing/editing, 397 of 425 appear in the Observer. ality' of the entry." points were given. Design/­
Hench added that the delay 'L'here is no specific score display merited 272 points of a did have one good conse­attached to the "Medalist" possible 300. An additional 40 quence. Because of the delay ranking. It is given to not more points were given as a special 
we were able to fill a lot of than ten percent of entries credit. In three categories. The backorders that we wouldn't obtaining between 850 and 1000 Observer editorial/ opinion page have been able to fill otherwise .. (the maximum) points. received a perfect score. 
Spring 
Clean-up Book Sale!!' 

All books originally marked down 1/2 
are nowan additional · 1I 2off. 

(~Vide varietyofsubjects) 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
~--------------~------------------------------~------------------­
The Observer 
Busick, O'Brien speaktoHPC 
on-ticket 
distribution 
• 
by Aileen Lavin StaffReporter 

Ticket Manager Mike Busick and Business Manager of Athletics]oseph O'Brien spoke at the HPC meeting last night in Sorin Hall regarding the sale and distribution of basketball tickets for next year. 
Each year, there are 5,000 tickets allotted to the students with 4400 of them going to upperclassmen and graduate students, 400. going to fresh­men, and the other 200 going to Saint Mary's. At this ttme the question at hand is whether to continue the summer issue as it was last year, or change the system to a spring or fall issue. 
Previous to the 1978-79 season, the only time the 5000 tickets were all taken by stu­dents was during the 1973-74 <;eason. Because of the prob­
lems resulting from the demand for tickets exceeding the number allotted, Busick is considering returning to the spring issue t~ facilitate dealing with these problems. "If we . conduct a spring issue, we then know how many tickets are available for freshemen,'' Busick said. 

Busick assured the HPC that if a lottery for lower arena seats was necessary, the students would be informed of their seating status before they got to the ticket counter. He apolo­gized for the inconveniences caused by not informing the students that they were not seated in the lower arena this past season. 
The decision on ticket sales and distribution will be made within the next two days. ''In light of what other schools do, we probably do a better job than anyone in the country in taking care of the students first,'' Busick maintained. 
Student Body President Bill Roche was at the meeting last night to get their endorsement for a proposal he was to bring before the Board of Commis­siOners. The proposal reads, 

by Ellen Buddy Saint Mary's Editor 

Elections for class and hall officers were held last W ednes­
·day, prior to Easter break, at Samt Mary's. "The turnout was excellent, especially since it was before break,'' according to Election Commissioner, Mary Mullaney. ''The requests for absentee ballots were also high, showing great interest on the students' part,'', Mullaney said. 
LeMans Hall officers for next year will be President ] eannie Ament and Vice-President Peggy Blum. 
Holy Cross Hall elections resulted· in a run-off between rwo of the three original tickets. The tickets in the run-off are Estelle Geyer :md Kim Kearny and the second ticket is Lyn Van Wassenhove and Sally Vita. 
McCandless and Regina Halls· did not hold elecuons because no tickets presented 
themselves for candidacy. According to Mullaney, "there 
will be elections in  these  two  
halls  within  the  next  two  
weeks.''  

The Augusta Hall govern­ment is structured differently than the halls previously men­tioned. Elections were held for four spots including ] udicial !Commissioner, Secretary, and Social Commissioner in addi­tion to Hall President. There will be a run-off election between ] ulie Marous and Sue Turcotte for president. Muffit Fitz­patrick was elected judicial · commissioner, Bernie Drossel will be Augusta's secretary and Tish Premazic will be social commiSSIOner. 
Openings on the tickets for class officers were for president vice-president, secretary and treasurer. Next year's Junior Class officers will be Susie Rckelkamp, Anne Callan, Susan Mitchell and Patty Zidar. This ticket ran unopposed. 
• The elections for Senior and Sophomore class for next year both resulted in run-offs. The run-off in the Sophomore class will be between Leslie Griffith's ticket and Eileen Murphy's 

ticket. Elaine Belle's ticket and 
Debbie Roberts' ticket will be in 
the run-off for Senior class 
officers. 
According to Mullaney, both 
tickets in the run-off for Senior 
class officers requested an open 
forum to discuss campaign 
issues and platforms. The 
forum was held in the lobby of 
LeMans Hall last night. 
After a flip of the coin, 
Belle's ticket decided to go 
second, so the forum was 
opened by the Roberts' ticket. 
Both tickets were allowed 
approximately 20 minutes to 
present their platforms, activi­
ties and goals for next year. 
The floor was then open for 
questions from . the audience. 
Questions were concerned with 
~ubject matter from semi­
formals to the Senior trip in 
Acapulco. "It was the best 
forum I've ever seen," Mul­
laney said, "the candidates 
presented themselves well.'' 
All of the run-off elections . will be held today in the lobby 
of LeMans between 8 and Sp.m. 
and between S and 6p.m. in the · cafeteria on the LeMans side. 
Wednesday, April18, 1979 -page 5 
"A Hall Food Sales shall sell and the Director of Student 
food items, non-alcoholic beve-I Activities to review this list at rages, and no more than ten least twice a year. items from a predetermined list Roche is trying to get this of no less than twenty-five proposal adopted into the du 
non-food items." The pro_posal Lac manual. The HPC voted also sets up a group consisting unanimously to endorse the of four Food Sales managers proposal. 
ND Lawyer part-time secretary needed (8 -12 hours per week). Typing essential, ability .to work with numbers helpful. Immediate or opening for remainder of the school year with an opportunity to continue in same position next year Contact: Tony Kahn 
N. D. Lawyer (Law School Basement) 

Ifyou"re coming home to the New \Ork area for the summer, you won't be 
far from a Fordham Summer Session. 
Fordham University maintains three campuses in the New York metropolitan area. 
• 
The Lincoln Center Campus is in the heart of Manhat­tan, one block west of the subways and buses at Columbus Circle. 

~ The Rose Hill Campus is an 80-acre oasis of trees, grass and historic buildings in the north Bronx. It is two miles south of the Westchester borde~; and has plenty of parking right on campus. 

• 
The Graduate Center in Tarrytown is located on the campus ofMarymount College in Westchester county. 


Available Courses 

Our Summer Session Bulletin lists over 300 under­graduat6 and graduate courses as diverse as Economics, Organic Chemistry, Psychology of the Afro-American, 'leaching Reading Through the Arts, Shakespeare, Inten­sive French for Graduate Students, and Statistics. Ifthere's a credit course you need, you'll probably find it here. 
Convenient Times and Dates 

There are two summer sessions, one beginning in early June and the other in early July. Classes meet in the day­time or evening, and most are given three or four times a week for four weeks. Thition is still $85 per undergraduate and $100 per graduate credit. 
Send Now for the Bulletin We'd be glad to send you a copy of the Summer Session Bulletin. Use the coupon, oecall us at (212) 93B-2233, Ex. 570. 
Summer Session Central Admissions, Fordham University Keating Hall107, Bronx, N.Y 10458 R1 
Yes, send me the Fordham Summer Session Bulletin. 
Current Address: 

N~'-----------------------------------------­
School Attending ------------------------------­
Address----------------------------­City ------------------State________Zip---­
&mm~Addressssor 

Address---------------------------------------Clty ___________________ Siale_________Zip ___ 
Summer Session 

FORDHAM 
The Observer Wednesday, April18, 1979 -page 6 
~-......~~~~~  TylenollOO's  
forthemilhonswhoshouldnottakeasp~rm  
~: T!!f~Pt safe fast pam relief. w1thour aspmn  $1.59each our regular $2.29  

Georgetown Pharmacy Georgetown Shopping Center and 
Mar-Main Pharmacy 426N Michigan free check cashing service with ND-SM CJ.D. 
BESSBROOK, Northern Ire­land (AP) -A booby-trap bomb killed four policemen yesterday in the worst such incident in a decade of Northern Ireland's sectarian violence. Twelve . other people were injured in the expolosion, an apparent escala­tion of the Irish Republican Army's spring offensive against 
British rule. 
The police were killed when a 
bomb blew up their Land-Rover 
as it passed a booby-trapped 
van parked on the road, police 
said. It was the highest police 
death toll in a single incident 
since Northern Ireland's trou­
bles began in 1969. 
There was no immediate 
claim of responsibility for the 
blast, but police said it had all 
Miller Time •• 33 days until. 0~. '};.\.~~$6.\Y> ~ ~ 7/u Cham1"'9rrt of'Bars  
Working Together forth~ ND Accounting AssociationVOTE Bob Torres Carla McCaughey Jeff Saccacio~. Jarine Wagner  

Booby-trap bom.b slaughters four policem.en in Northern Ireland 
the signs of an IRA ambush. . Among the injured were rwo 
Violence had eased off in sisters, ages 4 and 5, and their 1978, but Guerrillas of the pre­father, who wa~; driving a car dominantly Roman Catholic or­only a short distance in front of ganization launched anew on­the J?Olice vehicle. They were slaught last month to coincide admmed to Daisy Hill Hospital with the British campaign lead­in Newry, suffenng from facial ing up to May 3 national cuts and shock, a hospital elections. spokesman said. 
At first police said the explo­Twelve people required hos­sion was caused by a land mine pital treatment, including four planted in a dramage culven policemen who were in a second under the road. But a Royal vehicle 200 yards behind the Ulster Constabulary spokesman Land-Rover. in Belfast said later that the The Royal Ulster Constabul­bomb was hidden in a small van ary, ,Police force in the British parked on the roadside near the provmce, has lost 121 officers culvert. since Catholic-Protestant sec­
"As the police Land-Rover tarian strife erupted here in passed the van, it exploded and .1969. Police mjuries total the Land-Rover was totally 3,500. destroyed,'' the spokesman said. The ambush came less than 
A witness nearby, pub owner 24 hours after IRA Provisional James Scott, told a reporter: ~uerrillas claimed responsibil­''not a bit of the vehicle was left Ity for ~unning down an off­intact. It completely disinte­duty pnson officer at his sis­grated with the force of the ter's wedding in the border 
blast.'' village of Clog her. Police said it: appeared the The mostly Roman Catholic device was detonated by remote IRA has declared prison offi­
control by a terrorist lying in cers, police and British soldiers wait in the surrounding coun­prime targets in its campaign to tryside, a tactic used by the IRA force Britain out of Northern 
in the past. Ireland. 
... Tenure 

[Continued from page I] . of the tenure system, saying, "Tenure allows the scholar to get into research and teaching and frees him from worrying about his job, but people sometimes get that far and quit. If you discover you've made a mistake in hiring someone, you're stuck with him." 
Federal legislation extending the retirement age to 70 will 
further aggravate the situation. "We will have to add five years to 
tbe life of every ·tenured position on the board in 1982," Jones 
said, "and this obviously limits the number of people you could 
put into them.'' 
Jones said she does not believe the tenure system is 
discriminatory towards women or minorities. "It doesn't 
discriminate per se. Only in the last six to eight years have we 
concentrated on this endeavor. It will take a while to get them up 
to the ·tenuro.level," she explained. 
She added, however, "Tenure is not inherently discriminatory. 
That is possible at first when there are only men on the faculty. 
Jones also cautioned against hiring unqualified people simply to 
fulfill minority quotas, warning that to do so is "programming 
them for failure." 
An assistant professor in the College of Arts and Letters who 
preferred not to be named, was deniea tenure this past year and . complained of a "cloak of secrecy" around the tenure process. According to the assistant professor, this secrecy is unique to Notre Dame. He said he was denied any explanation of the decision, and was told only that his teacher ratings were too low, 
although he claims they were above average. 
He attributes his dismissal to the "fmancial crunch" within the 
university, forcing the university to grant fewer tenure positions, 
and "the university's reluctance to expand into new areas of 
study." 
He said that if he cannot find another tenure-track position at 
another university he will be forced to accept a one-year part-time 
position. 
''There is a profound disrespect on the part of the 
administration for the faculty here," he added. "The faculty is 
never consulted. The faculty senate is a joke; they only have the 
power of agenda.'' 
The article mentioned Hampshire College, a small liberal arts 
school in South Amherst, Mass., which now hires faculty members 
on a renewable contract basis without tenure. 
Jones said that such a policy would be difficult to implement at a 
large university such as Notre Dame, but advocated a "longterm 
renewable contract'' of five to eight years after which the teacher 
would be re-evaluated. "Ideally, it would be a good thing," she 
said. 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board 

The news is reponed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Features Editor .......Chris Stewart represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor ...... , ... Ann Gales opinions and letters ar~ the views of Senior Copy Editor ...... K. Connelly 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewis Business Manager .....Steve Odland newspaper published by students of able to all members of the community, News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan the Umversity of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News Editor .......... .Mike Shields Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is Saint Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ......Bob Rudy necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . Mark Perry Controller ........... John Tucker 
_The Observer_ 



The Observer Wednesday, April18, 1979 -page 7 

Any Off-Campus Student interested in being on a Trivia Bowl team for An Tostal should contact Shannon Neville at 2881-1270 immediately. 
• Chariot Races! For registration see xour An Tostal hall rep­resentative. Splash in the Saturday of An Tostal! For more information call 8794. 
Serf Sale! volunteer to be a serfat the second annual AnTos­tal serf sale! Call Patty 234-1735, Mary 288-1270, Jay 8732, Chris 6645. 
Boardof Commissioners approves cabinet posts 
by Kathleen Connelly Senior Copy Editor 
Last night the Board of 
Commissioners approved nomi­
nees for twenty student govern­
ment cabinet posts. The nomi­
nations were presented by Stu­
dent Body President Bill Roche 
and Student Body Vice Presient 
Bill Vita. The cabinet posts are 
divided into four basic areas of 
responsibility, each to be 
headed by an executive coordi­
nator. 
Seven cabinet members will 
work in the area of Social 
Affairs under the supervision of 
Executive Coordinator Jose 
Marrero. l'vfttrrero, a junior 
from Fort Lauderdale, FL., and 
a former president of Pangborn 
Hall, will guide the activiues of 
Peter Paganelli in the area of 
Social Life; Don Cleary, 
assisted by Anne Huber in the 
area of Social Concerns; Roman 
Macia for Third World Con­
cerns, and Darryl Williams for 
Interracial Concerns. 
Marrero will also coordinate 
the activities of Co-exchange 
Commissioner Mike Flynn, Co• 
Education Commissioner 
Debbie Smith, and Freshman 
Orientation Director· Chris 
McNulty. 
Rick Gobbie, former Acade­mic Commissioner, was appointed executive coordina­~or for campus affairs. Gobbi~, a junior from Belle Ver, PA. will supervise Mike Shepardson, Housing Commissioner; Phil Johnson, Security Commis­sioner; Beth Imbriaco, Acade­mic Commissioner; and Special Projects Commissioners Sandy 
l3randr and Mike Rauenhorst. 
Fo1mer Sophomore Class President from Birmingham, MI., ] im Veraldi, will be exec­utive coordinator for several miscellaneous cabinet P.osts. Veraldi will be responsible for 
NDHS to sponsor 
•

presentatton 
The Notre Dame . Historical Society is sponsoring a present­ation entttled, "The Notre Dame Archives and a Photo History of the University," tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Archives of the Memorial Li­brary. The guest lecturers will be Tom Spencer and Steve Moriarty from the archives. 
All history majors, graduate srudents, and faculty, as well as any interested individuals, are encouraged to attend. 
the supervison of Alumni Rela­tions Director Maureen Murphy, CLC and HPC liason Frank Guilfoyle and Board of Communications Staff Director Tom Maurath. 
The fourth executive coordi­nator is Paul Lewis, a junior from Westfield, NJ. He will be responsible for Student Govern­ment publicity. 
Executive Staff members Kevin Dwyer and Tom Trozzolo and Research Staff member Mike Heilman will work for Lewis and the other cabinet members. 
SUMovie Commission changes Disne~y Series 

The Student Union Movie Commission has announced time changes for the Disney Movie Series, to be held begin­ning tonight in the Engineering Auditorium. 
The Absent Minded Profes­sor will be shown tonight at 7 and 9 p.m. The Scarecrow of Romney Marsh will be shown tomorrow night at 7 and 9 p.m. also. 
Times for That Darn Cat are 6 and 9 p.m. Friday. 
..' Floods 

[Continued from page 1] 
she said. 
The water at Demopolis , just below the confluence of the Warrior and Tombigbee rivers, was expected to crest at 74 feet today, 26 feet above flood stage, which would be the highest level on record. 
Demopolis Mayor Hugh Allen warned sightseers they would -be arrested if they con­
tinued  to  get  in  the  way  of  
rescuers.  
In ] ackson,  where  flooding  

has reached rooftops in many northeast residential areas and has forced officials to close roads into the downtown sec­tion, the river stood at 43.2 feet at midday, more than 25 feet above flood stage. It had been p'red,icted to crest yesterday at 
43.1 feet. 
"The river's still coming up little by little but we're hoping it is about to crest," said Carroll Fulgham, a spokesman for the city of Jackson. "We don't really know when it will stop, but the levees are still holding." 
Shelter for battered women to celebrate first anniversary 
by jim McConnell 

The St. Joseph County 
Y.M.C.A. Women's Shelter will hold a dinner tonight at Century Center, celebrating the shelter's first anniversary. The shelter, opened on April 3, 1978, serves to provide tempor­ary housing, counseling, and support for battered women and their children. 
The shelter was begun after a study, conducted by the Women's Action Committee Task Force on Women in Crisis, indicated the need for such a facility, citing that in St. Joseph County alone, there are up­wards of 250 women who are annually in need of services provided by the shelter. 
Notre Dame Mardi Gras monies have provided partial funding for the shelter. The Mardi Gras Committee, first approached by the Women's Shelter Advisory Committee in · October of 1977, while the shelter was still in the planning stage, allocated $1300 toward its development in what John Reid, Notre Dame's director of Student Activities termed, "an act of good faith, with under­standing that the money would be returned should the pro­posed project not become a reality.'' . 
The money enabled the com­mittee to ren.t a three bedroom 
-

The above three movies are free of charge. The other three movies in the series will be shown at 7,9, and 11 p.m. with a one dollar admission charge. 

THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION PRESENTS AN EVENING WITH ... 
DILLY 
FRIDAY,APRIL 20-8:00 NOTRE: DAM€ AC.C. 
TICKETS: $10.00 Be $8.50 {ALL SEATS RESERVED) Tickets on sale at Student Union Box office 
ACC Rox office River City Records 
PRODUCED BY 


house in downtown South Bend. During the shelter's first six months in operation, it served 84 women with 104 children. /The average length of stay per family was 8 days. 
According to Theresa C. Tyler, the council's funding chairperson, ''In a very real sense the shelter would not be available to these families in crisis without the generosity of the Notre Dame srudents." 
In September of 1978 the committee reapplied for subsi­dizing and was granted an additiOnal $1500 to further work 
AUCiUSTI"IA"S 


"HOW CAN I MAKE MY LIFE WORTHWHILE?" 
One way may be to live within the Augustinian Fraternity. When you come to live with us, you observe and participate In our community life for several y..rs before making a final commitment. You observe that we are a religious community following the charlsm of St. Augustine and "that together and with one heart In brotherhood and spiritual friendship, we seek and worship God and that we labor ·In the service of the people of God." We serve In colleges, high schools, parishes, foreign missions, campus ministries, retreats, hospitals and military chaplaincies. 
WANT MORE INFORMATION? CONTACT: 
Father Bill Waters, O.S.A. VIllanova University 
P.O. Box 338 
VIllanova, PA 19085 
(215) 525-5612 

Name____________________________________ 
Add~••'---------------------------------­
City•_________Stata,______,._Zip________ Sohcpol or Occ._________,.ge,_______ 
Phone 
work of the shelter. 
Currently,  the  shelter  is  
equipped  to  handle  12  to  15  
women  and  their  children  at  

any given time. The maximum length of stay is generally two weeks, with exceptions made as need dictates. 
All calls to the shelter go through the Y.W.C.A. hotline. At that time, callers are di­rected to a shelter volunteer, specially trained to deal with beaten women, and answer their questions and counsel them concerning the advisabil­ity of relocating to the shelter. 
• 
f The Observer Wednesday, Aprill8, 1979 -page 8 
-
04 


"THE BEST" 


Despite guerrillas 
Bargain Mat. 
First .,iho·w 

¥¥¥¥--Kathleen Carroll 
Rhodesian voters flock to polls 
SALISBURY, Rhodesia (AP)­Undeterred by threats of guer­rilla violence, blacks and whites turned out in large numbers yesterday to vote as equals on black majority rule. A hundred thousand soldiers guarded against sabotage attempts by black opposition guerrillas. 
In latest reports on the first ""ay, at least 568,382 people V•oted, said Eric Pope­Simmonds, registrar general. He said last night that the figure, covering only voting until3 p.m., equalled 20 percent of the nation's electorate. The polls did not close until 7 p.m. (1 p.m. EST). 
The size of the turnout sur­prised even optimistic election officers. "It's startling," said one white official. 
The government hopes a large turnout will prompt politi­cal recognition of. the break­away British colony, which has been an international outcast since it unilaterally declared its independence in 1965. The government also hor.es for an end to crippling mditary and economic sanctions brought by the United Nations in response to Rhodesia's policy of racial separation. 
The 12,000 black guerrillas of the Patriotic Front alliance of Zambia-based Joshua Nkomo and Nozambique-based Robert Mugabe have vowed to sabo­tage the elections, saying the new government would be a facade for continued white rule. 
In black areas of Salisbury, lines of voters snaked around buildings for more than half a mile in some cases. Many women were among the blacks, voting for the first time in Rhodesia's history. 
In white suburbs, black ser­vants voted with their white employers. One black man in wh1te uniform and chefs hat told rel'orters: "I am going to vote w1th my boss because we all want peace for our people.'' 
In some rural areas where 
guerrilla threats against black 
residents have been high, large 
turnouts were being reported. 

Even as whites and blacks voted to end 90 years of white minority rule, the bitter guer­rilla war ground on. 
The military announced that 20 more people had died in the previous 24 hours. The six-year bust war has claimed nearly 16,000 lives. 
White Prime Minister Ian Smith last year formed a bira­cial government with three moderate black leaders, Bishop Abel Muzorewa, Ndabaningi Sithole and Jeremiah Chirau and agreed to a new constitu­tion providing for a black majonty in parliament. 
The Patriotic Front spurned an offer of amnesty and partici­pation in the election. 
Whites, who comprise just 4 percent of the population, were guaranteed 28 seats in the first 100-seat House of Assembly in Zimbabwe-Rhodesia, the new name the country will take when a black prime minister assumes office about a month from now. 
Black leaders say privately they had to promise whites strong representation in the new government, including control of the security forces and civil administration for five years, to attain black majority rule without forcing skilled whites to flee the country. 
Nuzorewa, the black leader favored to become the country's first black prime minister when election results are announced next week, predicted yesterday that international recognition would be inevitable once a popularly elected government was installed in power. 
The United States and Britain have refused to send official election observers, but about 50 unofficial observers from a number of countries, including the United States and Britain are watching the elections. 
Black American civil rights activist Bayard Rustin, in Bula­wayo as an unofficial observer, said he was ''exceedingly fa­vorably impressed" by the voting process. 
In a move to prevent multiple voting, officials required that voters hands be dipped in an indelible liquid that glows un­der ultraviolet light machines at each polling place. 
Owners must claim bicycles 

All bicycles stored at the Stadium over the winter must be claimed by this Friday. Bicycles may be claimed today, tomorrow, and Friday, April18, 19, and 20, between 1-4 p.m. 

" LARRY NORMAN IS PROBABLY THE MOST IMPORTANT SONGWRITER SINCE PAUL SIMON." 
TICKETS­

-BILLBOARD MAGAZINE "THE TOP SOLO ARTIST IN HIS FIELD." -TIME MAGAZINE 
• 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 

• 
RIVER CITY RECORDS 


"CHRISTIAN ROCK MUSIC'S MOST INTELLIGENT WRITER AND GREATEST ASSET." -THE NEW YORK TIMES 

The Observer 
Wednesday, Apri118, 1979 -page 9 ­
Speaking to 30people 
Toohey discusses pre-m.arital sex 


by john Ferroli StaffReporter 

''America is pretty thoroughly screwed up about sex," stated Fr. Bill Toohey, Director of Campus Ministry, at a Knights of Columbus meeting last mght. 
Toohey, speaking to a group of 30 on the subject of pre-man­tal sex, also stated that "there is a significant problem at Notre Dame'' concerning sexual behavior. 
''The students fail to see the more significant questions and issues about heterosexual relationships," said Toohey, ''and parietals is not one of them.' 
Toohey emphasized that the basic issue is interpersonal relationships. He stressed the importance for students to engage in ''numerous, pro­longed, informal, and personal relationships with the opposite sex." 
''The Notre Dame situation breeds confusion about what a man or a woman really is," remarked Toohey, "and you cannot be healthy unless you know what the other sex is." 
He went on to note that Notre Dame students desperately need basic sex education, Christ~n principles for sexual behavior, and the experience of numerous heterosexual relationships. 
Toohey mentioned that the word 'intercourse' has taken on a different connotation today. Originally, the word meant 'conversation.' Toohey noted that the first problem in marri­age splits is a ''communication breakdown," not sexual diffi­culties. 

''The challenge in hetero­sexual relationships,'' said Toohey, "is to have the verbal and the non-verbal communica­tion be consistent.'' He stated that much of the body language in relationships does not reflect the actual status of the relation­ship. 
Toohey mentioned that many gestures, such as the kiss, have been cheapened over time. "The kiss should say what is already true," he said. Toohey emphasized that "body lan­guage is not supposed to cause the relationship but express the relationship.'' 
Toohey stated that the act of sex should express the consu­mmation of a relationship. According to him, the indivi­dual engaging in coitus should be saying to the other ''I am yours, I am bound to you, I will love you forever." 
Toohey stressed the dif­ference between· the casual, anonymous sexual act and the pre-marital sex performed by an enra~ed couple. "The 
capabiiity of the one against th\' utht"• is the difference between night and day,'' Toohey stated. 
Responding to a question, Toohey again emphastzed the importance of seeking inter­personal relationships. "We cannot possibly grow unless we take the risk and go outside of ourselves to other people," he said. 
by Laura Lan'more Senior StaffReporter 
Applications for football 1game concession stand opera­tions are due during the month of April, according to John 
Reid, director ofStudent Activi­
ties. All halls and University­
aeproved organizations are eli­
gible to apply. 
A lottery to determine indivi­
dual game assignments will be 
held May 1. ''With six home 
games and 12 stands per game, 
there will be a total of 72 
assignments," Reid said. 
The thirteenth stand is al­
ways awarded to the Knights of 
Columbus chapter, since they 
do1_1ate all/roceeds to charity, 
Re1d adde . · 
Reid stated that virtually all groups that apply receive an assignment. In past years, 60-70 groups have usually ap­plied. Smaller groups, those under 15-20 members, are usu­ally paired together. Any assignments left over are put through a second lottery with the-largt>r groups, such as classes and halls, receiving first chance. 
Reid encouraged all under­graduate organizations ap­proved for 19'9-80 to apply. Forms may be picked up in the Student Activities Office on the first floor of LaFortune. 
The average stand makes between $200-$350 at a game, Reid concluded. 
Ohlgren 

to lecture on computers 
Dr. Thomas H. Ohlgren, 
professor of English at P~rdue 
University, will discuss "Com· 
purer Cataloging and Indexing 
of Illuminated Manuscripts'· 
during a talk tomorrow at Notre 
Dame. 
The talk is at 1 p.m. in room 242 of the Computmg Center and-Mathematics Building The public in invited to attend. 
Ohlgren recently completed a survey of projects in this area and is chairman of a sess1on .>n standards fo1· cataloging .trt works set for Dartmouth l.ol !c·ge in August. 
. =~?i 

_.--:-> >:·/, '.;. ·-:p~ ,. (:· ·· ~l'?,f:il· 
>':·~:'~:; ,,, .·)iol ;~:: 
:··<::_::..-· ~-:·\:·/,~·.I ~· 
. .::::· .... . ;.~· 
. .. .;• . ·.·'·... .··:
". ... ·::.
.. 
."·'iiiiiiiii 
...... D 
n . 

(Any morning, Monday through Friday 6:00a.m. to 11:00 a.m.) 
Nobody makes better breakfasts than Golden Bear and, nobody gives 
you more for your money. Nobody. 
1. EGGS 
Two Grade A. 
extra large eggs 
served with hash 
browns, buttered 
toast, and jelly. 

l • 
52820 U.S. 31 Nonh-South Bend • 6111 Crawfordville Road-South Bend 11 . _. ____ _ ___. · 921 West McKinley-Mishawaka r 
2. FRENCH TOAST 3. WAFFLES 
Four half slices served  One waffle  
with two strips  served with two  
of bacon or  strips of bacon  
two porkies.  or two porkies.  

(Offer ends Aprtl 30, ·1979) 
4. PANCAKES Three pancakes served with two strips of bacon or two porkies.  
I I.  



_____________,_____....,-...;;.;;=a__________:·~ ............jjlll.i<;:.-. ...--.-..a,.~~-.c;:.~ 
.; 

The Observer Wednesday, Apri118, 1979 -page 10
-
The Daily Crossword 

by Michael·Molinelli 


81?aW UN!JEI<STANIJS 7HIS A /.OT 
BeTTER 7HAN JIMMY. rM PnJB­
ABt.Y BEING UNFit!!!, I MEAN, 
MAYBe IT'S JlJ5T 7Hl3 Offlt:e,81JT PIIMMn; 1?/C/(, THe MAN K£CPS 

by Gary Trudeau 


CHICAG0-9~~ 
ND-SMC Senior Forma/Info. Table Sign-Ups: 
Tickets will still be on sale today 


Mandatory sign-up for table seating in LaFortune 12-2 pm and ONIGHTfrom 7-9pm Tables often only and please use the name of
Le 

person who purchased the ticket on the list 
Watch for the NEWSLETTER! 
... Changes­
[Continued from Page 2J 

program will all ~dd their ow_n unique perspecuves to thts course synthesis. 
The College of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering reported that they-will add three professors and perhaps a fourth to their program next year. Two assistant professors will be added to the regular faculty, one in Aerospace and the other in Mechanical Engi­neering. In addition the deJ;>~rt­ment' will also add a vistttng professor--Kohyu Sato~ froJ!I the Fire Research Institute m Tokoyo--and there is a ''very good possibility'' that a visiting professor from Oklahoma State will be added to the faculty according to Albin Szewczyk, department chairman. 
Two faculty members Will be acquired in Civil Engineering pending official appointment. One will work in soil mechanics and the other will specialize in structural engineering. 
Two new courses have been 
added to the curriculum in the 
Engineering College, and. both 
deal with resource alternatives. 
"Nuclear Reactor Theory" will 
be taught for the first time in 
the fall, and "Measurement 
Lab" will deal with solar ·energy. 
In the College of Science only 
the Math and Physics Depart­
ments report changes in curri­
culum and faculty. According 
to Department Chairman Wal­
ter Mtller, Physics majors have 
been given a list of electives -offered next year, including "Instrumentation with Micro­processors,'' a course which he mdicated is "very popular." An informal seminar on Atomic Physics, which is not listed in the course schedule, will be offered to graduate students 
next fall. 

In the Math Department, Andrew Sommese will join the regular faculty, according to John Derwent, Department chairman. Sommese is cur­rently teaching at Cornell after an extended reaching engage­ment in Bonn, Germany. 
Course descriptions for the 
new Social Justice courses will 
be released today. They will be 
outlined and explained in 
tomorrow's Observer. 
Rivlin to speak on budget 

Alice Mitchell Rivlin, director of the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) in ~ashington, will discuss funcuons of her office during a talk at 3:15p.m. today in the Law School LOunge. The talk is sponsored by the Thomas J. and Alberta White Center for Law, Gov­ernment and Human Rights. 
The budget office was cre­ated in 1975 to provide info~ma­tion to Congress on nauonal priorities and the cost and effectiveness of government programs. Director. s~nc~ its organization, Ms. Rtvhn ts a graduate of Bryn Ma~r and received her doctorate tn eco­nomics at Radcliffe. 
She served as assistant sec­retary of Health, Education, and Welfare under Lyndon Johnson and has be.en assoc~­ated with the Brookmgs Insti­tute in Washington, D.C. 
ACROSS 1 Cornmeal 5 Saraband 
10 Mine tunnel 14 Great Bar­
rier Island 15 Howe 16 Llana 17 Rude awak­
eningof 
sorts 20 Gigantic 21 Plaid cloth 22 Wing: Fr. 23 Lairs 24 Highest 
point 
Z7 Forced into an awkward po&:tion 


31 More au­thentlc 32 "West Side Story" song 33 Woodsman's 
tool 34 Deserters 35 Architec­
ture style 36 Source of int. '$I Follower: suff. 
38 Transports­tion sys­tems 
39 Foamy top 
of a wave 40 Perseveres 42 Armadas 
Molarity 

I S7A)'UJ ON CAMPUS AL-L 
£A5Tl:.R ... so WHAT? ALOT 

fXJonesbury 
1/)(N(, 0£/ANE., I CIW UNOei?STANO 
YaR.P5ENCHANT­MIJNT"IAJfTH CAK!ER, 81.!TIUHYJIJMP70 
JE~qzy BROWN? 
\ 

IT'5 HIS 
SYMBOlS, 
RJCJ<. HIS PACXA6e IS7HC 
eesrt 
I 
43 Der -18 Willow IAdenauerJ -19 Showy 
44 Six: Sp. 46 Abele 48 Warm sea­
sons 51 Mark Twain 
work 54 Acute 56 West coast 
shrub 56 -dire fj1 Christian 
and Paleo­
zoic 58 Gem 59 Nelson of 
song 
DOWN 1 Roman sun god 2 Tiny par­
ticle 3 Tableland 4 Excerpts 5 Sully 6 Sprightly 7 Baseball 
team 8 Fire 9 Private 
10 Reluc;tant 11 Force 12 Peruvian 
Indian 13 Four or six follower 
flower 23 Day at the movies 
24 Take -(go on a tour) 25 Talk fool­
ishly 26 -space XI Worriea 28 Street show 29 Be 30 Hollows 32 -Carlo 35 Suffering 36 Keep safe 
from harm 38 Fragrant tree 39 "-Every Mountain" 41 Drawing rooms 42 "The -of 
the species" 44 A Ford 46 Fresh-water 
fish 46 Remarkable person 47 Breath: 
comb. form 48 WWII town 49 Crucifix 50 Uttered 52 -King Cole 53 Sec 

IT:S NOT LIKE BREAK WHEN E.VE"RYONE WENT TO FL~IDA AND I DIDNT. I DON'T EYEN 

YO/J ~I RJCJ<,()(Jfe. Pfq),f){Etl$1 
IN THIS Cf}(JNTfzy HAVe Be­
THAT THE. ONLY PI?ACTICAI­
WAY 70 F£Sf0Nl) 7{) 7HeM 
IS QVA SYMBOliC LEVEL... 
\ 

~ ----~----~----~-----------~---­

The Observer -Sports 

[Continued from page 12] 
players from participating 10 the tournament. 
"The fact that the students came out is proof that Book­store is really a campus tradi­tion," Latz said. 
The qualifying rounds will continue today with games scheduled from 4 to 6:30 p.m. at Bookstore, Lyons and Stepan courts. The first round games will proceed until Saturday, when a full slate of ·competition is scheduled. 
BOOKSTORE BANTER: 
Latz has requested that any­one interested in serving on the staff of Bookstore VIIIshouldcall Bookstore Central (8361) as soon as possible. He stressed that scorekeepers are badly needed if every _game is to be scored properly ... WSND-AM (640) will carry Bookstore Report every night from 10:4) until 11 p.m. The show will feature a rundown of the day's games as well as pertinent announcements concerning the tournament. 
. . . Italians 

[Continued from page 12] 
the quality of the meet. "With the help of the students who gave of their Easter vacation, and the help of others in the community, the tournament, according to International offi­cials, was considered a top­class, unequaled event,'' satd tournament director Michael DiCicco. 
Classifieds 
Notices For Rent 
T~flst will do typing neat, accurate, call: Inexpensive rent this summer, furnished 
2 -5162. houses close to school. 277-3604. 
Ty~lng. IBM Selectric Pickup and For Rent: Need really big sound for your de Ivery 277-0296. next §:ty? Two Peavy loudspeakers
with w mixer/amp. Adapts to any Tj~lst will do typing In own home. Call system for great sound magnification. 2 -1401. Call Bob 3634. 
ATTENTION All LOGAN VOLUN -Rooms $40 mo. summer or fall. Near 
TEERS AND INTERESTED STUDENTS! rides 233-1329. 
This Weekend is the time for the annual 
Logan Center Campau!! Campers should 
meet at Logan at 11:00 a.m. on Saturday, 
Wanted
April 21st. We will arrive back at Logan at 3:00 p.m. Sunday. The campout 
VEGBUDDIESpromises to be a8reat time, with plenty Waitresses wanted: Michiana's finestof food. ~ames an good times. All meals night-club needs full or part time help.

are prov ded, no charge. Great plumbing Especially Interested In girls who might
too. All you need to brln~ are two 
be staying on for the summer, who wouldblankets or a sleeping bag. Ides leave rather spend their days on the beach andfrom SMC Holy Cross Circle for Logan at 

work at night. Must be 21. Apply

10:45 Saturday. Talent show saturday Vegetable Buddies.
night-Think up and act. N D students meet right at Logan at 11:00 a.m. 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year round.

Saturday. Questions Call Mike 1371 or 
Euro~e, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc.

Sue 41-4832. 
All ields, $500-$1200 monthly. Expen­ses paid. Sightseeing. Free Info-Write: IJC, Box 52-14, Corona Dal Mar, Ca 92625.
Lost&Found 
Paid positions for 2 printers and a Lost: N.D. Class Ring &Watch In O'Shag secretary for 1979-80 yr. Call Diane at 4/8/79 Call Pat 3386. 7920 or office 7047. 
Lost: One Notre Dame class Ring In the Back~acklng across Europe. We need a ~olf locker room on Saturday about 4:00. fourt person (female) Call Mary Clair at 
he rln~ has a green stone, class of '80, 6232. and Init als JJB. if you were hitting golf balls Inside, please check to see If you Counselors needed for American Lung picked It up by mistake. Thanks Call Jay Association ASTHMA DAY CAMP June 234-2329. 25-29 &July 16-20 Hours 8:30a.m. -4:30 
~.m. Camp Location: Mishawaka, IN Lost: Brown, 3-fold wallet near Nickles ourly rate. Background In P.E. on Hot-Dog stand Friday (6) nita. Desirable for more information call: NEEDED BADLY. $for return. 287-2321. 
Thou shalt not steal. Lost: Hewlett-Need ride to St. Louis on Friday, Agrll 20. Packard HP-33E Calculator, Reward$$$. Will spilt expenses Call Steve-32 1. Call Andy 272-7080. 
3 Billy Joel Tlxs Call Mike 1722. 
Wednesday, April18, 1979 -page 11 
Phillies bomb Pirates in baseball action · 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Bake had taken a 4-3 lead in the top off with a single and moved to McBride hit two home runs and half of the inning on Montreal second on a scarifice. Garry Maddox added a grand starter Scott Sanderson's 
Tigers 6, Royals 3slam to drive in a total of nine throwing error and a run-scor­DETROIT (AP) . Steve Kemp runs and power the Philadel­ing single by Lee Mazzilli. 
broke a 3-3 tie with a run-scor­phia Phillies to a 13-2 victory Reds 7, Braves 4 ing single off AI Hrabosky inover the Pittsburgh Pirates CINCINNATI (AP) . Pitcher the seventh inning Tuesday and Tuesday night. 
Tom Hume drove in two runs Milt May followed with aMike Schmidt added a solo with a single in Cincinnati's two-run double to lead thehomer during the 17-hit Phila­seven-run first inning and the Detroit Tigers to a 6-3 victorydelphia barrage, which includ­Reds held on to beat the Atlanta over the Kansas City Royals. 
ed 10 hits and seven runs in the 
Braves 7-4 Tuesday nisht. 
first three innings. Texas 6, Cleveland 2
Loser Larry McWil!tams re­
White Sox 6, Toronto 1 tired two of the first t'Jrf"'" bat­CLEVELAND (AP) -Fergu­TORONTO (AP) -Francisco ters he faced, then cuulctn't get son ] enkins and ] im KernBarrios and Mike Proly com­anybody else out. combined for a six-hitter andbined on a three-hitter as the Boston 6, Brewers 5 Buddy Bell dro,·e in three runsChicago White Sox defeated the as the Texa~ ;Rangers 1eat theToronto Blue Jays 6-1 Monday. BOSTON (AP) -Fred Lynn Cleveland 1 1dian~ 6-2 Tuesday.
Barrios, 1-0, went six in­slugged: a two-run homer with nings, giving up just t~ree hits one out in the ninth inning, his C. JS 5, Cards 3 and rettred 14 batters 10 a row sixth of the season, as the CHICAGO (AP) -Dave King­before ] ohn Mayberry led off Boston Red Sox came from man blasted a two-run homer 
the seventh with a double. behind to beat the Milwaukee and rookie Scott Thompson Proly came in to retire the side Brewers 6-5 Tuesday. collected-a single and two and held Toronto hitless the Trailing 5-4 against Reggie doubles, driving in twu runs rest of the game. Cleveland, 0-2, the sixth Mil­and scoring another, sparking 
Yanks ) , Orioles 1 waukee pitcher, Lynn powered the Chicago Cubs to a 5-3 
his shot into the right field victory over the St. Louis Car­NEW YORK (AP) -Reggie stands after]erry Remy had led dinals Tuesday. 
] ackson' s seventh-inning home run broke a 1-1 tie, and Ron Guidry pitched a three-hitter for his first victory of the season as the New York Yankees 
... Track 
defeated the Baltimore Orioles 
)-1 Tuesday. 
[Continued from page 12] feet b~t did not place), and 
. Mike Flanagan, 1-2, the Bal­
Ahmad Kazimi, who jumped 48
event.
timore starter, surrendered a 
feet, ten inches to place sixthin
Pete Burger took second in
run in the fourth inning when 
the triple jump. 
the 1500 meters in 3:)1, and
Thurman Munson, who singled 
Irish Head Coach Joe Piane
Joe Strohman added a fifth for
to left field and advanced to 
was very pleased with the
Notre Dame in 3:53.
third on a single by ] ackson, 
team's over-all performance.
Other placers in the running
scored on a sacrifice fly by "We have got to be pleased
events were Tim Twardzik, who 
Graig Nettles. with all those people that
took fourth in the 400 meter 
placed," Piane said.
Expos ) , Mets 4 intermediate hurdles in 53.4, 
This Saturday most of the
and Dave Bernards, who placed 
MONTREAL (AP) -Rodney 
Notre Dame team will be travel­
sixth in the high hurdles..
Scott's 12th-inning single drove 
ing to the Illini Classic at the
Tome Ferenc was the top
in Dave Cash from second base 
University of Illinois in Cham­
Notre Dame finisher in the field 
. and carried the Montreal Expos 
paign. A small Irish contingent
events, as he took second in the 
to a )-4 victory over the New 
will be at the Kansas Relays on
shot put, followed by teammate
York Mets Tuesday. 
Friday and Saturday, however,
] ohn Kuzan in third.
Andre Dawson's two-out 
as Notre Dame defends its
Also placing were Perry
home run in the seventh inning 
championship in the two-mile
Stow, fourth in the pole vault at 
tied the score at 4-4. The Mets 
16 feet (Mike Noland vaulted 1) relay. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m .. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All -cla~>ifieds must be pre·paid. either in person or through the mail. 
N D Sophomore class officers of 79-80
For Sale . 
John Fulcher-Happy Belated birthday to endorse the SMC ticket of Murphy-Moorethe pass around boyfriend! All ~our girls En~ler-McMahon. They will do the jobhope you had a great day. ow that rig t! you're 22 poopie, we know you can ABCD
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun. 
handle us even better. P.S. Good Luck Cammy!
9-7 Ral~h Casperson 1303 Buchanan 
love, M.B. AND D.O. Kirby & Emmett
Road Ni es. 683-2888. 
John Poinsatte was 21 April 12-flnally! He's been faking It for 4years. Wish him To Dave, Larry, Joe, Paul, and the
Take a break from studies and enjoy a 
a happy birthdar today-he'll be In the
walk to Pandoras books. Sure, we have friends of the Barron HIIton-school books but we also have lots of fun, gutter tomorrow. Thanks for a great Easter! 
Love, Mary Anne, Mary beth, and Jean Mary and Reesebrowsing books. We also buy used textbooks. 233-2372. Behind ND 
Puppy love-you're all grown up! Hapyy birthday and thanks for six months. Vote:
apartments. 
Having a youngerman in her life can do Bob Torres wonders for an old lady. Can't you tell? Carla McCaugheyFor Sale: Texas instruments Tl-55 Love, The bubblebath Kid. Jeff SaccacloElectronic Calculators Reasonable Price. 
Call 3087. Janlne WagnerTake warning, Bookstore Fans! Glox Cox Working together for the N D Accounting Golf balls used-like new, 50 for $10.00 
are coming! They're gonnat pull It out In Association and up. Call 272-0783. 
time and cream their opponents! They always rise to the occasion, sneak It In the RJ, back door, and come out on top! They HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!!!!! refuse to be beat! See you on the courts--that's where we do It· Susie Meyers. 
You remind me of an aardvark.
Personals 
P.K. Hemmer and the Raids challenge The Cheescake Kid Glox Cox to a grudge bookstore match! We never suffer from alack of "Prepara-Happy Birthday Scoop Rlgaux-Now that 
Mary Pat Dutton-Break a Leg. tion". you're no longer a teen, here's some Best of Luck thing you must ~lve up: The Monkees,Molly Happy 21st b-day (minus one day) to Bert Feks, Pinkies, owle and Horse lmlta-
Cannon. Remember there will always be !ions. Attention Notre Dame. Daniel Graham someone out In the Hall. Choke much-love, 4-D Pace, all-star soccer and lacrosse player, The Boys has announced his intention to enroll at Kentucky Derby? Campus View Informal Come One, Come the Dome in September 1979. all-Friday nlte alter Billy Joel (or come 
Dave, I mean Vince, earlier) 5 Kegs.Clarification: I do not have a job writing High Energy guys are a lot of fun. Had Ingredient labels for plckel jars nor do I agreat time. Vote In the NDAA elections today from Intend to make a career of it. Carol, I mean Sara 8:00 -3:30 In Hayes Healy
signed, Phil Cackley 

SMC EDITOR-Vote Torres, McCaughey, Saccaclo, Ahoy Sailers!! You have come a long way since your WagnerJoin the N.D. sailing club, learn to sail fence hanging days In Amarillo. Happy travel with the racing team. Meetings 21st. El Anyone Interested In umpiring lnterhall Wed. 6:30 204 O'Shag Mom& Dad Baseball games call 6100 
Do It on the water MB-Need Golfing Lessons before the end of Join the NO Sailing Club Sorry you dldn't get along with our friend school for two girls. Please help! Call 
Johnny Walker. Hope you had a Happy lisa or Jeannine at 4392. Have you been mistaken for Riehle Birthday anyway. Spechts brother In the Dining Hall? PN 7JF HI KATHY!!! ' 
UMOC · ' GUtSSWHO? 
Wednesday, April18, 1979 -page 12 
SRorts 

Minus varsity b-ballplayers 
Bookstore com.petition begins
ft: 

by Frank LaGrotta In one the win In
of afternoon's over IBWMF. the
~'c\4 
Sports Wn'ter 

most thrilling matchups, John afternoon's only forfeit, Two Gacy and the Boys Dow~ Und~r Studs and T}:lree Puds Spring, in all its splendor, eeked out a 22-20 overnme wm advanced to the next round of 
has returned to Notre Dame. over The Ragsters. Chris competiton when their sche­Officially, that is. Beem"n paced the winners with duled opponents, Numnuts,Sure, last month's sunshine 11 points while teammate John failed to show up.and robin's return served as Brooks chipped in seven. ~ill Latz and his staff were verygood indicators that better days Siewe dropped 11 for the losmg encouraged by the enthusiasm 
are on the way. But warm down team. displayed by the student bodyjackets and waterproofed boots Hal Reilly led Gramps ard despite a recent NCAA ruling were kept handy until the real the Burners to a 21-18 win over that prohibits varsity basketball 
sign ofold man winter's demise Midnight Ramblers as he made [Continued on page 11]appeared ... good on 11 of 27 shots. The 
Other scores 

Bookstore Basketball. 
Ramblers relied on the hot hand 
Well, there was plenty of FFF over We Can't Play Basketball by 3
of Mark Thuney (six points) for 
that, along with sunny skies Mike's Boys over The Saints by 4
their scoring punch. 

(filled with robins, of course) on Dribbling Seamen over The Burners by 14
You Guys Didn't Show Up 
campus yesterday as the Iron-­Oregon Ducks and the Four Quacks over
defeated P. Posse 21-15' as Nick 
concrete Sucafat by 7
men returned to the Vehr and Curt Bailey combined 
hard courts to vie for this year's Uranium and the Three-Mile Meltdown over
with 12 points for the winners. 

Bookstore crown. Tournament The 12·1nch Cinch by 7
John Keiser was the Posse's 
commissioner, Leo Latz, was leading scorer with five points. Captain Kurt and His Men over Keith Moon extremelv pleased with the Ken Valdiserri took a step and the Deadbeats by 15 events of opening day. toward this year's Hoosier Buford's Cherrypickers over One Hurting 
"It was a very smooth start, Award, putting on a 9-for-33 Unit by 11 considering the difficulty we John Gacy's ·Boys Town over Wally and the
shooting exhibtion that ~parkedh_ad noti~ying yesterday· s/arti­Vegetable Products to 21-17 S~hwartzs by 11
a 

ctpants, Latz commente . He win over Joe's Pranksters. Later WEB over the Midnight Cowboys by 8 added that the confusion was Mark Bubberman hit seven of Ace and the Space Kids over Kool Hand caused by the Easter holiday 14 shots and pulled down seven Jukes by 15
The ND baseball team split with Butler yesterday, winning the 
because most of the students rebounds for Joe's boys. Five Fifths over Indiana Hosers by 12 
opener, 4-3, but dropping the nightcap, 7-2. [Photo by Cate 
were not on campus. In .other action. Hugh Peace. Love, Justice ...over Fail Luck Symbols
LHagertnis] · 
Quinn's 11-for-21 performance by 8 led Too Lare + 3 to a 21-7 win Bay Wizards over Thursday Night Moaners over Roiling Heads while John by 14
NDtennis team's 8-game win streak snapped 
Daley scored 13 points and Dogs over Margaux Trudeau's Prime Aomin­pulled down 11 caroms in a isters by 15 by _Wichael Ortman Second seeded Carlton ~nd Robison taking his last nine 21-16 Chico Escuela and D.D.'s More Beer II over B. H. and the P. by 4 
Sports Wn'ter Harris was nursing a sore right 10 a row. 
elbow when he took on Indi­Entering the doubles compe­When you're hot, you're hot, ana's Jeff True, a native of tition, the Irish trailed, 4-2 and and when you're not, you're South Bend. The healthier needed a clean sweep of the 
Italians highlight_fencing 
not. This weekend, the Irish True quickly disposed of three matches to win. B"Jt it tennis team tasted both Harris. 6-1, 6-2. The other was not to be for the tired The Italian Delagation cap­avyi won the epee gold medal in 
extremes as ir extended its singles matches, however, were netmen as the team of senior tured two of the four individual a fence-off of four fencers who winning streak to eight conse­much closer. capt .. in Mark Trueblood and weapon titles at the 1979 Junior tied for the top record in the cutive victories before falling to In the number-one singles, Bob Koval was the only one to World Fencing Championships, finals of tl1at weapon.
the Indiana Hoosiers, 6-3. The Indiana's Randy Druz need come up with a victory, defeat· held this past weekend at the Hungary's Imre Bujdoso wonloss dropped Notre Dame to three sets to put away Mark ing True and Dickinson, 4-6, Athletic and Convocation Cen­the sabre medal in the 20-and­12-7 on the year. Hoyer, 2-6,6-4, 6-1. Thtrd seed 6-1, 7-5. 
ter.

The netters started the Herb Hopwood nearly sent his ''They were just plain tired,'' The foil gold medal was under competiton, ending aEaster vacation o+f in grand match with Hoosier Mike Dick­explained coach Tom Fallon. 
captured by Italian Andrea two-year Russian domination in fashion, whitewashing host inson into a third set, but he too ''The team had a really rough one of nearly 300
Borella, that weapon. 
Valparaiso, 9-0. The out-. came up a loser, 6-2, 5-7. weekend of traveling and play­fencers from 32 different An apparent political incident classed Crusaders were no The two victories in singles ing. I think they just needed a nations participating in the occurred during the first nightmatch for the Irish netmen. for Notre Dame came in what few days rest before playing five-day event. of competiton, as one of theBecause of limited time and proved to be the closest Indiana.'' 
The finals in women's foil, three Chinese entrants in the court facilities, the teams matches of the afternoon. 
The players hope to get that held on Sunday evening, were foil did not compete in hisplayed ten game pro-sets, Freshmen Tom Hartzell and much-needed rest before also dominated by the Italians. scheduled bout with an Israelirather than the standard best­Tom Robison both needed tie­Thursday's match in Chicago Nineteen-year-old Annarita fencer, and was announced asof-three six game sets. breakers to win their respective against DePaul. The road Sparaciari and 16-year-old having an injured right leg.
The team piled back into the matches. Number five Hartzell schedule doesn't lighten up any Dorina Vaccaroni, in addition to Tournament officials set up an van for another road trip. The defeated Tom Lockhard, 6-3, after that, however. Sunday capturing everybody's attention appointment with a doctor for next stop for the Irish was 2-6, 7-6, while number six the team will be in Terre Haute captured the gold and silver the Chinese fencer, but he didDeKalb, Ill., where they rolled Robison, favoring a wrist in,·ury medals, respectively, in not show up, causing specula­over three opponents in two incurred against Bow ing to take on the powerful Indiana women's event. 
tion that he did not want to face days to sweep the Northern Green, downed Mark Behr, 6-2, State Sycamores, who have The Soviet Union, which won 
the Israeli for political reasons.Illinois Quadrangular. Notre 7-6. already beaten Indiana twice. the total point-based World Bur this incident did little to
Dame downed St. Ambrose These two freshmen have On the return to South Bend, Cup team trophy, managed one mar the spirit of competiton and (8-1), Bowling Green (6-3), and been the hottest men on the the team will stop in Lafayette gold medalist. Igor Kutcheri­
[Continued on page 11]
finally, host Northern Illinois team of late, Hartzell winning to do battle with the Boiler­r· (~-4) to post its eighth straight eight of his last nine matches, makers of Purdue on Monday. 
~ 
VICtory. 

After a day-long layover in South Bend, the netters took to the road once again for a 
Track team takes 3rd 
Monday afternoon meeting with Indiana in Bloomington. 
by Mark Perry sive Irish performance in the
The injury ridden and fatigued 
Sports Editor 800 meters, as he won the race
Irish proved no match for the 
1:50.4. Notre Dame placed two
powerful Hoosiers. 

Four first place finishers · others in this event, as Chuck Indiana 6, Irish 3 helped lead the Notre Dame Aragon took third in 1:50.6 track team to a third olace at and Jim 'Slattery placed sixth in 
SINGLES the Arkansas State Invitational 1:52.8. No. 1--Randy Druz (IU) def. Mark held last Saturday· in Jones­Junior Marc Novak was the Hoyer--2·6, 6-4, 6-1 
bora, AR. The Irish trailed other first place finisher for the
No. 2--Jeff True (IU) del. Carlton 
Harris·-6-1, 6-2 only Kansas and Arkansas Irish, as he turned in an 
No. 3--Mike Dickinson (IU) def. Herb State in the ten-team meet. impressive performance to win Hopwood--6-2, 7-5 Leading the way for Notre the 10,000 meters. Teammate No. 4--Tom Rogers (IU) def. Mark Dame was Dennis Vander­Ed Bomber took fifth in this Trueblood--6-3, 6-3 
Kraats, who took first in two [Continued on page 11]
No, 5--Tom Hartzell (NO) def. Tom 
Lockhart--6-3, 2-6, 7·6 events. The senior co-captain. No. 6--Tom Robison (NO) del. Mark paced a one-two Irish finish in 
Interhall baseball 
Behr--6-2. 7-6 

the 3000 meter steeplechase,
DOUBLES 

winning the event in 8:57. meeting set 
No. 1--Druz/Rogers (IU) def. Hoyer/ 
Harris--6-3, 6-7. 6-3 Freshman Chris Lattig followed No. 2-Trueblood/Bob Koval (N D) def. VanderKraats, taking the There will be a mandatory True/Dickinson-4-6, 6-1, 7-5 runner-up spot in 9:02. meeting for all Interhal1 Base­
No. 3--Lockhart/Ron Remak (IU) del. 
In the 5000 meters, Vander­ball captains at 4:30p.m. today
Hopwood/Bill Pratt-6-2, 6-4 

Kraats also took first, winning in the ACC auditorium. Cap­loss snaps Notre Dame's 8 match in 14:29. tains must present their five winning streak. Jay Miranda led an impres-dollar entrance fee at this time. 



