
-.
s ­
• • • Kickoff.approaches-pages 12 & 13 rr 

i I I j 
I i 
I I 
I . I 
f ' 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 11-IURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1979 
' 
Federal judge blasts Carter; ' t J I' j j
must obey 'la'W of the land' 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A Dec. 15 that he was granting
federal judge ruled yesterday full diplomatic recogmtion to that President Carter acted im­the People's Republic of China, properly in terminating the he also exercised an option in United States' mutual defense the Taiwan defense treaty al­treaty with Taiwan without ftrst lowing either party to termmate getting congressional approval. the fact on a year's notic.~. 
U.S. District Judge Oliver The treaty, in which the 
Gasch ordered the Carter ad­United States agreed to come to minstration to take no action to the aid ofTaiwan in the event of 
...: ··.~ 

terminate the 25-year-old treaty an attack by the mainland
····.··• unless the administration Chinese, would end Jan. 1,
SOR1'N 
received approval by two-thirds 1980, under Carter's timetable. Tiil!:NT?? of the Senate or a Majority of "The termination of the Tai­both the House ,and Senate. wan treaty carried a one-year 
J
SHOW Gasch's ruling came m a suit notice that either party could brought by Sen. Barry cancel out,'' said Justice De­9:30AM Goldwater, R-Ariz., and 23 partment spokesman Mark Saturday other members of Congress. Sheehan. ''We will of course 
Goldwater hailed the ruling as appeal it expeditiously. We the first time ''in the nation's feel that the president was almost 200 years of constitu­acting entirely properly.''tional history that a federal But in his ruling, Gasch said, judge has ruled directly on the ''At least under the circum­power of treaty termination. It stances of this case -involving a 
Son'n Hall is sponson'ng a pep rally tonight at 8 p.m. tonight. The hall has huilt a Trojan means that no American, not significant mutual defense horse in honor ofthe upcoming ND vs. USC game. rPhoto hy Mike Btgley]. even the president, can break treaty with a faithful ally, who the law of the land.'' has not violated the terms of the 
Goldwater said he hoped ''the agreement . . . any decision of president will now submit a the United States to termi­proper request for legislative nate that treaty must be made approval of his policy on its with the advice and consent of
Violence erupts in E1 Salvador 
merits, rather than continue to the Senate or the approval of battle Congress over an issue of both houses of Congress. That SAN SALVADOR EL SAL constitutional power.'' decision cannot be made by the 
nothing more than a continua­entrances of San Salvador, and However, a Carter adminis­president alone.' 'VADOR (AP) -Army troops tion of the old system. ~principal plazas and parks were tration spokesman said the
killed at least six leftist protest­Heavily armed troops Gasch had at first dismissed 
ruling would be appealed.
ors yesterday during a five-hour patrolled the main streets and 
[continued_on page 4J [continued on page 4]
When Carter announced last
gun battle in a mountain town near the capital, witnesses rep­orted. It was the second day of 
fighting following Monday After intense deliberation night's overthrow of the right­wing government by members of the military. 


Student Board abolishes ticket policy . • •
Only hours before the latest fighting erupted, leaders of the new military government hy Mary Fran Callahan bolished the Student union ceded the actual vote. that indicated that other univer­claimed their coup had preven­complimentary ticket policy by · Tom Hamel, speaking for sities provided monetary com­ted a popular uprising and "sea As a part of their intense a 6:2: 1 vote with Bill Roche, Student Union ur~ed the board pensations in the forms of 
Student president to consider the "1mporrance of hourly wages or salaries forof blood'' in the CentralAmeri. seven hours of deliberation last Body ab­staining. such decision" to comparable members of stu­
can natton. night, the Student Government A len~thy. debate on a prior the However, sources within three Board of Commissioners a-this controversial tssue pre-voung. Hamel cited statistics dent organizations. 

Roche also emphasized themajor leftist organizations said amount of time that Studentyesterday that their groups Union and Student Govern­would not accept the new ments personnel invest in their~overnment and would cont­
resolves budgetary problems

• ' work and also expressed themue their fight. ' opinion that Student Union and Witnesses said the six persons workers would not labor sokilled belonged to a group .that 
Student Government budget allocations were ture is that the International Third World diligently if the complimentaryhad put up barricades at the completed last night, but only after intense Awareness Conference will have to be cut tickets did not exist. ''Every­town's entrance earlier in the deliber~t,ion and complicatin~ factors lengthen­totally. Another facet of the budget difficultit;s body goes up there with theday. The same witnesses said ed •th£!~ven hour proceedmg. The Student was An Tostal. Mitch Feikes, a spokesman for understanding that they will getleftists in the town were still in 
Gover~ent --already short on funds and faced An Tostal had announced in his appeal the tickets," he said.
control of the city hall, the with .~several groups appealing for more -· activities that will be cut this year due to the Ellen Dorney, HPC chairman,church. and other buildings. 

anno11nced a bookeeping discovery which left drastic budget cut. These events include: M~. then countered with an argu­There was no official confirma­the current administration with an unexpected Campus, the fireworks, balloons, and the ment that focused the discus­tion that the troops had fired on $3,700 debt. executive dinner at the Boar's Head. sion on the issue of compen­the protestors. 
While 8 of the 14 dubs appealing received The midnight movie may have to be cut or at sation for volunteer organiz­Monday's coup toppled the additional allocations, the Student Government least have a $1 admission fee charged. ations. "In the nature of arightist government of Gen. 
Board of Commissioners, led by Student Body However, with all these cuts, Feikes still cited a volu~teer organization, peopleCarlos Hunbeno Romero, President Bill Roche, cut back on HPC need for additional revenue to simply cover t~e are not to be compensated.
regime was the target of moun­allocations, diJ;>ped into their contingency fund, remaining activities. The board finally dtd Innately you participate be­ting leftist violence. 

used up thetr appeal reserve, and finally . allocate $960 which will be deducted from the cause you enjoy the i.nteraction
The new leaders appealed for resolved their budgetary problems by 1 a.m. HPC-allocation to AnTostal. with people," she satd. .

calm and reconciliation in the The unexpected $3,700 allocation was essen­Student Union also appealed its allocation Pursuing the compensa~tondivided nation, but moved tially a bookeeping mistake left from the which was sharply reduced from last year's dimension of the ticket pohcy,quickly on Tuesday to crush a previous Student Government administration. figure. Hamel claimed the organization neeqed Greg Sebasky, Student Govern­series of leftist disturbances in 

Freshman qrientation was budgeted $3700 last an additional $1000 to pay for fireworks whtch ment treasurer, expanded the rowns near the capital. year by the 78-79 board. However, the current were already under a signed contract for , issue by asking if the Student · 
They declared martial law, 

board assumed that since the money had been Homecoming could not be cut. . ... ' Government should not ex­
imposed seven hour curfew allocated by the 78-79 board, the money had ~e)3oard pa~sed.a motion to allow th~St_l!dent amine the compensation levelsstarting at 10 P. M. and banned been deducted from the 78-79 budget. Roche 'Umon\ to retam tts budget allocanon now of student groups other thllnpublic gatherings of more than 

recently discovered that 78-79 Board intended \(:g~nnhg l in .the additio~al ~2700 of re~enue Student Union. 
three people to discourage at­the Freshman Orientation funds to come out of jgener~te9 · wtth ~e termtnattqn or c~mplln!en-i Bill Vita Student Body vice-

tempts at a possible counter­' .
thi_~ year's bvrlget, since it wo~d be applicable tary tttkets. Thts move then «ave the Student i president, attacked orgamza­coup by leftists wh? may b~­to the current freSluiien. · 
ieve that the coup wall result m [conlinuetl on pag~~] [COIIfi'nued on page 2]
The result of this unexpected $3700 exJ)endi­



... 





















Ne-ws in brief 

Thursday, October ·18, i979 .. page 2 
•• • . Budget
Jury sentences cold-blooderJ 
killer to death by irtjectioti 
{continued from page 1J in The Observer, received no· College Bowl also received , · h . an funding because the board $100 to get off the groundU d d • 1000 1
ni?~ t e nee e • P u~ \viewed ·the venture of funding initially.OKLAHOMA CITY (AP) -Roger Dale Stafford w~s 
addmonal $1700 ~o.c~annel ~to ~~he club initially for loan col-The Pep Rally Committee sentenced to death yesterday night by a jury that earlier m ~.?!.~_student activities. ~ateral would simply be too received $150 to insure that the 
the day convicted him of executmg six steakho_use workers 
Eigh~\ of the fourteen clu.bs ri~ky an investment-_. . rallies scheduled for this yearinside a freezer where he had herded them dunng a.$1,300 
that appealed for funds rece1v-CILA.received $500 whtch the are financially possible. robbery. The jury deliberated for about an hour dunng the 
ed allocations. On behalf of the board felt was quite a beneficial Clubs that did not receive penalty phase of the case. In consideri~g Staa:o~d's guilt, t~e 
International Students Organ-allocation since CILA is a top reallocations were denied funds JUry required onlx 27 minutes to reach us decision on the SIX ization, Father Thomas Tailor-serv1ce organization on for several\ reasons. 
frrst-degree murder charges. State law provides that the ida, group sponsor, presented camous. _ The board is not funding thedeath penalty be carried out with an injection of barbituates. 
an elaborate plea for funds, by · -The Sailing Club received Black Cultural Arts Commis­having three international stu-$200 in order to help get sion simply because the group dents as well ai a club advisor started. already receives a direct $3000 accomoany him to the appeal. In order to pay opera.ung grant from the University. The A Chinese' student, and an expenses, MECHA received [continued on page 11 J~­
Indian student explained to the $':..:1::)::0::.======================= 
board the need for funding for ­


·­Senate committee exempts 
foreign movies and mixers. Fr. 
Tallorida sharply criticized the 
board for its initial allocations. • • . Tickets


Soviet bomber from SALT II 
He reiterated the fact that many of ISO' s activities benefit all students. The board finally did [continued from page 1) sing the ticket issue, then 
allocate an additional $1000 to 
resumed their discussion of ·the ISO. budget appeals, finally finish­WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate Foreign Relations · tions which salary their work­
Gymnastics Club, whose ers. ing at 1 a.m.
Committee voted 9-6 yesterday against including the Soviet The board then proposed
plight was explained previously 
Backfire bomber in the count of weapons permttted under 
that a statement be issued The a~enda for the meeting the new strategic arms limitation treaty. Democratic Sens. 
had onginally called for theinforming the student. body of budget appeals process to comeRichard Stone of Florida and Edward Zorinsky of Nebraska · the extent to which campus
The Observer. 
first in a session closed to thejoined four Republicans in voting for the proposed change. 
ot;ganizations compensate their press and general public, but aThe measure was widely regarded as a "killer amendment" workers. 
because it would signficantlx change the text of the SALT II 
Night Editor: Beth (It's finally Roche said that the board decision late in the meeting by treaty and almost certainly force new negotiations. Senate 
over!!) Huffman the board kept the final budget
will research this issue. 
R~_publican Leader Howard H. Baker of Tennessee, in Asst. Night Editors: Cindy The discussion on the compli­session open. The handful of offering the amendment, said U.S. negorfators were Kliros, Deirdre Murphy mentary ticket policy began students who arrived and left out-traded by the Soviets, who insisted the Backfire is not a Copy Editors: Mafi·beth periodically throughout the
about 9 p.m., just after the first strategic weapon. · Moran, Kathy Casey seven hour ordeal appeared
round ot budget allocation dis­
Layout Staff: Dan Tarullo, Ryan cussion. The board spent impatient with the lengthy pro­
"no doz" Ver Berkmoes approximately one hour discus ceedings and eventually left. 
News Editor: Mike Shields Editorial Layout: Tom Behney Features Layout: Teri (Non ~


Market shows slight rally 
stop!) Michielutti 
Sports Layout: Paul (how 'bout '-" 
yourself) Mullaney 
Sports Copy Editors: Katie 

micflael·&co.
after year 's worst decline 
Huffman, Craig Chval fiatr concepti · Typists: Tina Terlaak, Terri Blazi, Bill Swift, Cindy Grillot, 
NEW YORK (AP) -The stock market halted its worst 
Shaun McAuley, Beth Huffman 
Tomorrow's Hair Designs .... Today
EMT: ·Laura Vasquez energy issues. But tradin_g was light, and prices were 
decline of the year yesterday with a moderate rally led by 
Proofreader: Bruce Oakley 
for Contemporary
slippmg from their mid-afternoon peaks as the market 
ND Day Editor: Katie Kilkus­closed. -The Dow Jones average of 30 mdustrials, which had 
kie fallen 68.09 points over the past seven sessions, rose 1.20 to 

Men &·Women
SMC Day Editor: Peggy
830.72. Less than two hours before the close the average had Schneeman 
.cx~·<J 
been up more than 7 pbinrs. NY Stock Exchange volume 
d Design: Joe Murphy, Flo 
North 
droppea off to 29.65 million shares from 33.77 million, 
Southland-Plaza
hotographer: Mike Bigley 
Yz •le east of Notn D••
settmg the slowest pace since a 24.93 million-share day on· 
Guest Appearances: Mark "I 
2041 E. I,.H atlnlwood
Oct. 1. 
Edison at Ind. 2-3
ever sleep'' Rust, Mark Perry, 
(219)-291-1001
osemary 
(219) 272-7222 
'AF-How dare you miss my



Weather 
rand finale!!!!--"A" in Dam­
sties--/ can't believe it!!! 
Partly sunny and mild today, with highs near 70. Partly 
The Obsemr (USP$ • 120] is
cloudy tonight with lows near 50. A chance for showers 
published MondJy through Friday n­
tomorrow wuh highs near 70. 
cept during eum 1nd vacatiln periods. The Observer is pubtisllld by the students IJf Notrl Dame ad Sllnt 
Rockin You from the Tower, Tonfte wfth
Mary's Cllllge. Sublcriptila lillY be purdlned .. S28 per ,,., ($11 .... 
Ro-ck-n -Retrospect, from 11-12
.....WI from The Observer, 1».0. lin Q, NltriDimt, llldiiRI 41556. s..ct



Ca•nP-_u_s------~ 
Followed by the Album Hour,
d1u ~~ Plld. Netrt Den, llt­
diiRI . 
The Observer is 1 lnllllblr If 1M 
Only on Notre Dame's Student Rock,. 
Aaodltld Pras. All 
•••••diM 

AM 64
riglltllrt r1llfVId.
4· 30 pm .. LECTURE, "ongoing studies in't~e total ~ynthesisl\f natural products--part II," prof. dame! damshefsky, sponsored by dept. of chemistry~ 123 NIEUWLAND 
make your reservations CQdll for
6· 30 pm .. MEETING, leadership training class, sponsored by campus crusade for christ, BULLA SHED 
-··-­


''The Hotel California'' --­
8 pm __ LECTIJRE, "science as a liberal art," prof. phillip 
sloan, nd, sponsored by general program, LIB. LOUNGE 

nd homecoming dance 
8 pm __ CONCERT, st. mary's college chamber singers, 
UTILE THEATRE 
length _of stay-Thursday,
8 pm .. PEP RALLY, with speakers chuck ~ale, scott zettek, brendan moynihan, bobby leopold, coach JOe yonto, officer 
· 

check m-9Pm music by one of the

rim mccarthy, SORIN PORCH 

check out-lam big bands 
8:30 pm .. LECTIJRE, colin row, cornell u., ARCHITEC­

charge-· S4.00 per person •
TIJRE AUD. 
· room location -stepan center semi fotmQI

9:30-10 pm --NAZZ, chris albertoli, john cuckovich, becky 
holthouse; open sta 
sponsoted by the student uoion social commission 
... ·-···-·--·--------.. --------------­
tickets on sale at student union offices d din halls 



The Observer Thursday'"October J8, 1979 -page 3 

Benefactor of the poor 

It's Coming-



Mother Teresa wins Nobel 
Minor quake shakes. Southern California 
scale quake in the ImperialLOS ANGELES (AP) -A quick, Valley, 200 miles ·southeast ofsharp earthquake jolted a wide Los Angeles.
area in and around Los Angeles "My whole house was shaking
yesterday, rattlins windows 
I thought the windows wereand dishes and shaking houses. 
about to fall out,'' said CulverThere were no immediate City resident Denise Holt. 
reports of damage or injuries. 
A worker in Redondo Beach said the 1:55 p.m. tremor lasted 
'My whole house was about 30 seconds in his area. It lasted only a few seconds in downtown Los Angeles. 
shaking. I thought the ]ohn Hainer, wh<? wa~ at wo.rk in a downtown h1ghnse, said, ''There was a sudden jolt like a
windows were about 
truck had run ·into the side of the buildin~ right here on the 
to fall out.' ninth floor. ' "The door started swaying. I could hear things rattling
The seismology sta.tion ~t the throughout the house,'' said University of Cahfornta at Susan Gillott of Echo Park. 
Berkeley said the 1:54 p.m. 
The Richter scale is a measure 
quake registered 3. 5 on the of ground motion as recorded Richter scale. There was no on seismographs. An earth­immediate word on w~e~e the 
quake. of 3.5 on the Richter quake was centered or if lt was scale can cause slight damage 
related to Monday's 6.5 Richter in the local area. 
Brahmin priests st.aged a noisy 
street protest outstde. 
"If you want to kill me, kill 
me " ·she· told the priests.
"u;t them (the inmates) die in 
peace. " 
She won them over. 
She accepts no direct ~nancial 
assistance from the Indtan gov­
ernment, only an occ_asional sift 
of land for a new proJect, saymg 
that ''God is our banker, He 
always provides.'' . 
Mother Teresa's past rnzes include India'sJawaharla Neh­ru Award, the Philippines' Ra­mon Magsavsay Award and the Joseph Kennedy Jr. Founda-• tion Award. All award money has been channeled into her far-flung projects. 
Mother Teresa refuses to speak of herself, saying only 
''it's His (God's) work,. not 
.
mme. " 
Other 1979 Nobel prizes and winners so far: -American Theodore W. Schuhz and West Indies native 

Sir  Arthur  Lewis,  t:conomic  
science;  .  
-Americans  Steven  Wemberg  

and Sheldon L. Glashow and Pakistani Abdus Salam, physics; -American Herbert C. Brown and West German Georg" Whittig, chemistry; -Amencan Allan MacLeod Cormack and Briton Godf~ey Newbold Hounsfield, medicine. 
Football banners need approval 
Student Government has 
announced  that  all  students  
must  have  their  banners  
approved  prior  to  the  us~  

game. Distasteful banners will not be allowed on the field. Security will be on the field to confiscate unapproved banners. 
A Student Government task force will review the banners in the LaFortune Rathskeller tomorrow from 3:30 -5p.m. and on Saturday from 9:30 -10:30 
a.m. All approved banners will be cullected and transported to gate 17 at the stadium where students may pick them UJ;> 15 minutes after half time begms. Students will also be issued 

special half-time passes allow­ing them on the field at the end of the half. This will be the only way for students to get their banners on TV. 
Professor lectures tf!night 
"Science as a Liberal Art" will 

be the topic of a lecture 
delivered by Dr. Philli.t;> Sloan in 
the library lounge tonight. 
Sloan, an associate professor in the General Program of Studies, also teaches in the University's Graduate Program in the History and Philosophy of Science. . His research and publications focus on the .his­tory of science from 1500 to 1900. 
The lecture is one of a series sponsored by the General Pro­gram of Liberal Studies. 
Seniors-make your costumes over break ~d get ready· to really celebrate Halloween. Wed. Oct. 31st · 9-2 at the 
1st Annual·Senior Class ·Masquerade Party 
ACC Concourse COSTUMFS A MUST PriZes for best .Costumes Individual $15 Group $25 o!her pr~s: champagne 
~uy your tickets m the !lmm~ Halls ?r LaFortune $3 a ticket mcludes 1 nnxed drink, or 2 beers, plus Free peanut;J, 
munchies, band & a guaranteed good tune. . Tickets $3.50 at door 


fr '-~~~ llld~i­
1!· ~ .
129 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET a~A> ON RIVER BEND PLAZA DOWNTOWN . .. H BEND 
fri &sat 

THE 
BURN'S RENT-ALLS 2 Cu. FT. Refrig. $55 per year new shipments of refrigerators have just arrived also TV's Steamex Carpet Cleaner 10% off with student ID LARGE BBQ G~ILLS AUTO TOOLS FLOOR CARE EQUIPMENT 332 W. MISHAWAKA 259-2833 

SUPPORT THE KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS LOLLIPOP SALE 

ALL PROCEEDS GO TO CHARITIES AN ORGANIZATIONS IN SOUTH BEND ON SALE NOW IN THE DINING HALLS ONLY soc! 
.. 

-.
' -:'
,. 
. I ••:I 
I 
~· 
I 
~t 

-· I . 
I 
I 
I 
I,, 
t 
I 
I 
J 
1 
1 
I 
i 
' 
I I I 1 
' I 
1 
I 
I 
j ' 
1 
1 I 
1 j 
, ~ 
1 

OSLO Norway (AP) -Mother 
Teresa: Calcutta's "saint of the 
gutter," won the 1979 Nob~l 
Peace Prize yesterday and sa1d 
she would spend the $190,000 
purse on lepers and the desti­
tute to whom she has dedicated 
her life. 
"Poverty and hunger and distress also constitute a threat to peace!" . the. _Nobel C?m­mittee said m cmng the SIXth woman to win the prize. 
The yugoslav-born Roman 
Catholic nun, daughter of an 
Albanian shopkeeper and now a 
citizen of Indill, said she ac­
cepted the award ''in the name 
of the poor.'' 
Her order, the Mission of 
Charity, was founded in Calcut­
ta's slums -in 1946 when Mother 
Teresa opened her first school 
with 40 cents in her pocket and 
special permission from Rome 
to live outside a convent. The 
order now runs schools, hospi­
tals, youth centers ~~d orpha~­
ages in 50 Indian Cities and 10 
others around the world, from 
the Bronx, New York, to Papua, 
New Guinea. 
The five-member Norwegian 
Nobel Committee said Mother 
Teresa, 69, was given the pri~e 
''in recognition of her ~ork 10 
bringing help to suffenng h~­
manny '' She has been nomi­
nated for the prize for several 
years and has o~ten be~n. men­
tioned as a posstble reclptent. 
President Carter was another nominee for the award for his Mideast peace efforts. He was first nominated for the 1978 award too late to be consid­ered ~nd was renominated this year: He re~eived a ~pecialmention for hts efforts In the citation given to the 1978 winners, Prime Minister Men­achem Begin of Israel and Egyptian President Anwar Sa­dat. This year, the world has turned its attention to the plight of children and refugees, and these are precisely (the) cate­gories for whom Mother Teresa has for many years worked .so selflessly," the committee said. 
Hundreds of beggars, lepers, the blind, the crippled, the dying and the unwanted gather daily outside Mother Teresa's Calcutta mission for a free meal. For decades she has given the poor of . the slums medical care, schooling, a bowl of gruel, a slice of bread, or just a clean place to die. 
The Norwegian Nobel Com­mittee noted this was not the first time they had awarded the prize for work undertaken to overcome poverty. 
The hallmark of Mother Te­resa's work, it added, "has been respect for the individual human bein~, for his or her dignity and mnate value. The loneliest, the most wretched and the dying have .at her ~ands received compassiOn without condescension, based on rever­ence £or man. " 
''I accept in the name of the poor because. I be~ieve that by giving me this pnze they are recognizing the p~~se~ce of the poor in the world, satd Mother Teresa reached at the head­quarte;s of her mission in the slums of Calcutta in east India. She said she had heard the Oslo announcement on local TV. 
Talking with reporters after evening prayers, she spoke of love poverty, and greed."Gr~ed." she said, "is the greates~ obstacle to peace in the world today -greed for power, for money and for name.'' 
With her prize money, "I will build more homes for the destitute and the poor, espe­cially for the lepers," she said. 
It was not known if Mother Teresa would personally _accept the award in a ceremony In Oslo on Dec. 10. The presentation is made on the anniversary of the birthday of Swedish dynamite inventor Alfred Nobel, who set up the prizes. The other awards are presen~ed tha.t same day in Stockhol~, mcludmg ~he Nobel Prize for Literature which is to be announced today. 
Mother Teresa was born Au­gust 27, 1910, in S~opje, Yugo­slavia and her ongmal name was Agnes Gomcha Bojaxhiu. 
At age 12, she decided to become a nun and six years later joined the Sisters of Loreto an Irish order, which
,  .  
sent  her  to  India  m  1928  to  
teach.  
It  was  on  a  train  to  the  

northeast India hill retreat of Darjeeling in 1946 that Mother Teresa says she heard ~er second call, ''to serve Hnn among the poorest of the poor. " 
When the short, slight woman opened the mission's "home for the destitute dying" next to a Hindu temple in 1952, 400 

The Observer 

MASS 
followed by
supper 
every
FRIDAY at the 



Thursday, October 18, 1979 -page 4 
At USC game 

Irish Army aims to unify students 
by Kelli Flint Calamity, Capt. Chaos, Major cheerleaders for clubs and or­
Rah Rah, Pvt. Parts, and Cpl. ganizations other than athle­Punishment. tics." While the cheerleadersUnder the assumed names of "The club was designed to lead cheers from the field, theGeneral Disorder and General promote the school by unitying Irish Army plans on leadingConfusion, two Notre Dame the students,'' according to cheers from the stands. "Westudents have organized the General Disorder. ''The school want to fill the gap between the Irish Army, a non-profit organi­cheerleaders are good, -but field and the stands," General
zation dedicated to spurring subdued, and they are not Confusion said. 
school spirit. Other members visible in activities outside of "We're currently firing stu­of the Army include: Cpl. sports. We plan on being 
dents ur for the usc game,'' Genera Confusion said. ''We felt that this would be the best time to introduce our club officially," he added. "Our slogan is st USC, (stew U S C)

• • . El Salvador 
and we've developed a recipe for ' 'Irish Stew'' which includes 

~ 
\ 
l \ ~ 
\ 
l i 
I' ' 
( 
J 
{ 
( 
( 1 
r-------------------------------------~~~ 
TOWN & COUNTRY LIQUORS HAS THE BEST DEALS 
IN TOWN , so.99\\eS· 


Case of OLD MILWAUKEE in Quarts 
$5.90
Case 12 oz. PABST BLUE RIBBON 
5.69
Case 12 oz. MILLER CANS 
6.99

Case 12 oz. RED* WHITE* & BLUE 
4.99

CANS 
6.59

Case 12 oz. STROHS CANS 
3.99

QUART OF VODKA 
7.98
HALF GALLON OF VODKA 
4.99

QUART OF WHISKEY 
WE HAVE ONE OF THE AREA'S LARGEST SELECTIONS OF WINE. WE ALSO STOCK KEGS. 

10% off all beer, wine & liquor 
(except above specials) 
in all 4 of our convenient locations: 
'Town and Country Plaza 1751 12th St., Mishawaka River Park, 2411 Mishawaka Ave. Southland, 4411 Ironwood Rd. 
I 
I 
\ 
\ 
I 
I 
1 
i 
I I 
i 
[continued from page 1) 
occupied by other troops. 
The new government has pro­mised a general amnesty for political prisoners and exiles and to disband the paramilitary organization known as ORDEN, which is one of at least two rightist squads used by the fallen Romero government against dissident groups. 
The new government also promised to legalize political parties of all ideologies and fired all generals who had posts in .the Romero government. 
The new leaders said Romero 
had lost control of the rightists
who were killing prominent
leftists and union leaders. 
The capital itself remained tense, and some taxi drivers were refusing to make trips into the center of the city because of earlier gunfire in the area of the 
cathedral. 
Leaders such as Archbishop 
Oscar A. Romero, leaders of the 
Roman Catholic Church in El 
Salvador asked Salvadorans to 
wait and'see if the government \ keeps its promises. 
Romero an active cnuc of the Rome;o government, gave tiis blessing to the n,ew leaders soon after the coup. 
Tuesday night, Jose Antonio Morales Earlich, leader of the moderate opposition Christian Democrat Party, met with the colonels who led the coup, A~olfo Arnoldi Majano and Jrume Abdul Gutierriz. Later the national radio chain, which the government controls, broadcast an interview with him in which he said the goals of the new government were the same as those of his party. 
• • . Law 
lcontinued from page 1] 
the Goldwater suit on June 6 on the grounds that the Senate had not yet expressed its views on the treaty termination issue. 
Within hours of that court ruling, however, the Senate voted 59-35 for a resolution stating that the Senate believed encling mutual defense treaties was a power shared by the president and itself. 
T~e resolution was at~ached to a b1ll that has not receiVed final Senate approval. Gasch, how­ev~r, sa1~ the vote v.:as su,f­fic1~~t ev1dence of the Senate s posmon on the matter. 

MEETING Oct. 30 at 7:30pm 
in LaFortune Ballroom 
Come see what Young life has for 
• 

you -the college student I 

Can 't make it? Simply call John Schroedel 289-8825 
Vagas Ferguson, Trojan horse­meat, Rusty Lisch, and Tim Foley, all cooked over a grid­iron. The dish is to be consumed in victorious, rave­nous fashion. ' ' 
According to the Generals, the Irish Army has applied for club status at the Stuoent Activities office, and is backed by Tom Hammell of the Student Union. James McDonnell, Director of Student Activities, verified the fact that the Army has taken an ar,plication for club status. · 'The club has verballY. sub­mitted a purpose, and 1f they carry out this J?urpose effective­ly and submtt 1t in writing, there is a definite chance that they will be recognized as a club,'' McDonnell said. ''They chose a good week to introduce themselves, with the USC game this weekend,'' he added. 
McDonnell also noted that the future of the Army depends greatly on how they're able to reach the student body. "My main concern is that they keep it in good taste," he said. 
"We hope to be recognized as a club soon,'' General Disorder said. ''Our goal is to stress having a good time without causing havoc,' and also to support all existing traditions and establishments such as athletics, the cheerleaders, and the Student Union. We're doing all of this for the students, and to show our love for Notre Dame. We want the Army to catch on for the school." 
Irish Army methods of initiat­ing spirit include personal ads in the Observer, the sale of st USC buttons, and uniform­ed appearances :in the dining halls. Army members will appear in uniform by request at parties anp pep rallies. Their uniforms consist .of green and yellow h~lrnets and T shirts. 







Student Lottery for 

Appearing. . ' 
. ; 

Nov. 16 8pm 


Sunday, Oct. 28 8:00pm Stepan c~_,ter 
: I . 
i '

Tickets go on sale Monday Oct. 29 ---9:00am SU Ticket Office 
. 
.$12.50 Frontstage $10.00 &$7.50 Rearstage Limit 6 tickets per person 
Also available at all ACC ticket outlets 
______.._..,_.___......-------­


CIA predicts return of gas lines 
r 
WASHINGTON {AP) -Gaso­line lines have disappeared only temporarily and will return along with major oil shortages ~>nee the nation emerges fro~ Its current economic downturn the CIA predicted yesterday. ' The ~eal crunch probably will 
come m  1981  or  1982,  a  CIA  
official  told  a  House  Intelli­ 
gence  subcommittee.  And  

prices ~ill continue their up­ward spiral unabated, testified 
Humanities committee seeksmembers 
The Indiana Committee for the Hu!J1aniti~s, a non-profit organi­za~Ion ~h1ch awards grants to umverslty and connumity groups to conduct public pro­grams in history, philosophy, literature, and other fields of the humanities, is seeking three new members. ICH is an entirely Indiana -based group of 24 volunteer members from throughout the state, half from I~diana coileges and universi­ties and halffrom the communi­ty at large. The openings must be filled by Jan. 1. 1980, and nominatiotiS should be sent to ICH no late than Oc~. 20. ICH is. looking f-ur two university or college representarives and one public member. The academic representa· · ves could be indivi­duals who teach in traditional humanities disciplines, non­humanists who nevertheless ­a humanistic approach to their scholarly work, or academic administrators who. by training or vocatiOJ•, are familiar.with the humanities. Each new member will serve one three year term with an option for a second three year term, and should be willing to meet at least four times each year to ma~e decisions on g~ant appli­cations and to set pohcy for the organization. Committee mem­bers also represent ICH in their owr communities, encouraging new applications for funding and partici:>ation in ICH sup­ported proJects. Nominations should mclude a bried biogra­phy and letter explaining the candidate's interest in serving on the committee, and sould ve on the committee, and should be sent to the ICH office, 4200 Northwestern Avenue, Indian­apolis:, Indiana,46208. The nomination may come directly from the candidate or from a third party. Members will ve 
chosen at the quarterly ICH Board Meermg in November. 
Korean 


wotnan needs English tutor 
The Nei~hbr rhood Study Help Program needs a student to help a Korean woman improve her English. If she is unable to b• tutored she must quit her job and go on welfare to enable ~·er to take English lessons. Ar, interested student must be able to provide his own transportation. For more information contact Betty at 272-7955 or Sue at 4-1-4515. 
''Thus...the world does notMaurice Ernst, director of the have years in which to make aCIA's office of economic re­smooth transition to alternative

search energy sources,". he said.
The subcommittee was also 

R
Ernst said U.S. production al­told that world oil prices, which ready has begun to declinein just the past year have 

northern indlo.na'a largest
markedly and he held out littleincreased 60 percent to around hopes of reversing the trend.

$20 a barrel, could soar to $52 a record ·and tape selection 
And the situation is equallybarrel by 1995 -based on the 

and concert, ticket headquarters · 
current value of the dollar. bleak in other producing na­
tions -both members and

That possiblity was raised by Roger Glassey, assistant ad­non-members of the Organiza­
tion of Petroleum Exporting JJ.OO OfFU
ministrator of the Energy In­
Countries, he said. . any album 01 t~pe ( now thN Hov•..~•.
fo.rmation Agency, who agreed with the CIA projection that The Soviet Union, the world's limit I coupon pet o~····-,aon largest single oil producer at
world demand would exceed 11.4 mill jon barrels per day,
supply in the 1980s. ."Hence, world oil prices may faces stagnating or declining 
nse faster than the rate of production. "We expect Soviet oil production to peak this year
inflation in order to balance 
world supply and demand.'' or next and decline thereafter,'' the CIA official testified.
Glassey testified. 

The testimony of the two The Soviets, who now export about one million barrels a day
officials before the House Intel­to the West and another 1.9
ligence subcommittee on over­million a da{ to communistsight offered little in the way of countries, wil likely b~..:ome ag~d n~ws for those partici­net importer of about 700,000pating m yesterday's national barrels of oil daily by 1982, hedemonstration aimed at forcing said.
government action to lower Meanwhile, the outlook for oil energy prices. 
production in OPEC nations,Ernst said the CIA found that notably Saudi Arabia, "has"the outlook for world oil worsened considerably. Planssupply is dim." 

for increasing production capa­

''although oil shortages have 
10% OFF all vitamins 
city have been trimmed ordisappeared in recent months shelved and producing country­they are likely to reappea; 

--·& health foods 
governments have jmposed

dur~ng the upswing of the next production ceilings that are
busmess cycle -perhaps in 1981 below capacity levels,'' he said. 
or 1982," Ernst testified. 

with ND-SMC ID 
~LTHFOODS----------~
1 JUST FOR THE RECORO I
t-------NATURAL VITAMINS
1 in the 100 Centet 1 
SJA.RS HEALTH

I offe11 10% off on I FOODDEPT ·
I IEVERYTHING 

UNWERSITY PARK ,w_4LL
I with ID, & coupon 1 
6501 GRA-PE RD. AT l!.S. 23

I .RECORDS. TAPES, pataphetnalia I 
SOUTH B~WD 

-------~-------­



Join the sales team that needs no introduction. 
There's nothing more 
Xerox equipment is a corporate necessity.

revealing than a naked 
We're an industry leader and, of course, 

diamond. 

the original. You'll start by learning our diversified business; Then join the s3les force that sold an
The diamond you buy should have nothing to hide. That's why it's advisable to select your stone and mounting 
industry. We offer advancement that can't be 
separately · 

duplicated. In. reprographics, and communications, 
Before a diamond is mounted, your jeweler can easily 
Xerox is the information center of the future. 
demonstrate its cut, colorh clarity and carat weight to you. With his help, you will be able to see and compare the 
Introduce yourself to a leader! 
brilliance of different stones yourself. 
We're interviewing students with a Bachelor's 
·Brilliance is the key to beauty in diamonds. Always look 
or Master's Degree and determination to get ahead. 
for a diamond that has been cut and polished to bring out all of its natural brilliance, one that meets the exact-

r-;;:==~ 
Check with your college placement office 
ing standards that have been established as 
for dates and schedules. Then talk to
ideal. These are called ideal cut diamonds. · 
our campus representatives. 
LK Ideal Cut Diamonds ensure you of getting the most beauty and value. 
John M. Marshall's 


XEROX 

Xerox is an affirmative action employer (male/ female) 
Diamond Import Company 
Lobby St Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana 46601 287-1427 


' ~ ­
.. . ... ..' . . .. .. 




The Observer Thursday, October 18, 1979 -page 6 
The trees and thesouls [photo by Mike Bigley.] 
In 'plain English' States advocate sim.pler legal language 
NEW YORK (AP) • Down chairman of the Texas State declaration and subject to all with the hereafter. Banish the Insurance Board. the terms of this pohcy. . . '' henceforth. Abolish the afore­The board ordered insurance The same section of the 
mentioned. companies in 1977 to include a revised policy says: "In return In other words, get rid of the plain English ''outline of for payment of the premiumgobbledygook. coverage'' in individual health and subject to all the terms of 
Across the country, efforts policies. Christie· says he this policy, we agree with you are under way to make sure that hopes the rules ''will hasten the as follows ...'' contracts and other legal day when you no longer need a Some people -most of them documents are written in Black's Law Dictionary and a lawyers -argue th.u you need language people understand. Philadelphia lawyer to deter­the comp!icated language. All people -not just lawyers. mine if your claim is covered.'' They say court rulings are 
·The trend staned in the early Insurance Services Office, a based on specific words and 1970's in the banking and rating and statistical service phrases. Change the words and insurance policies to be written with about 1,100 subscribers, the rulings won't hold up. in plain English, In other has developed standard, ''There are some legalplaces, state regulations have simplified forms for car and thoughts you just can't set forth 
ordered simplified forms. homeowners policies. simply,' says Wilbur 
In 1978, New York became The new forms, approved for Friedman, president of the New the first state to require all use in more than 25 states, have York Lawyers Association. consumer contracts tor less bigger type, fewer words and So far, however, there have than $50,000 to use words with more space between the lines been no reports of legal''common and everyday than the old ones. Here's an precedents falling by the way­meanin~s. '' Maine and example of what the change side, of insurance claims Connecticut have similar laws means. complicated by a lack of and ''plain English' '/roposals The old version of the intro­syllables. Most laws on plain have been introduce in more duction to the standard auto En~lish include provisionsthan a dozen other states. insurance policy said the saymg that contracts are valid 
''I think the people. . .are company "agrees with the even if readability rules have entitled to an insurance policy insured, named in the declara­been violated. that they can. . .sit down and tions made a part hereof, in read and understand what they consideration of the payment of 
{continued on page 7)

have just paid their good money the premium and m reliance for,'' says Joe Christie, former upon the statements in the 

ace gives 
THE STROH BREWERY COM~ANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN© 1971 

security tips for break 
The Off-Campus Council has released these suggt.:stions for off-campus students over Octo­ber break: -Mark all valuables with a stylus pen. These are available in the administration buildif!g,at local banks, and in hardware stores for approx. $~. En~ rave these items with your dnver's license number and the abbre­viation of your state. -Store valuables either on campus or in a securely locked closet over break. -Pre-set timers on lights and radios, etc. are available in hardware stores for $4-$5. -Ask landlords to keep an eye on your residence while you are away. -Call South Bend police and alert them to the fact that you will be away. They will make periodic checks for you in your absence. -Notify the Post Office to hold your mail. -Make sure sliding glass doors are locked and secured with a piece of wood or metal. -See that deadbolt locks are put on all doors, and that locks are put on all windows. -Don't leave notes on the door saying when you'll be back. This is an advertisement that no one is home. ·Don't let strangers (salesmen, 
··~ 

children selling candy) into your home. There is always the possibility rhat they a.re casing the premises.
"Tom, crying in your beer is one thing ... 
-Have a peephole i.--:.scalled. -Keep records of serial num­
but when it's Stroh's you've gone too far." 
bers on stereos, recr·l.vers, etc._ · If you are robbed, be sure tp notify police, ND Security, aqd your landlord. 


For the real beer lover. 
-If you meet a bur ;)ar, don't confront or provoke htm or raise a weapon against -~.im _which may be rurneq again::·t you. Try to rememb, • what he looks like. 
If you wake . p to fin ' a burglar in your hou'., or apar dTient, the wisest mo' · poss':.Jie is to pretend thar you u.re _till asleep · Books concaining additional security sug..;esti~n~ are avail­able in the ..ff-camp· 'S room of LaFortune ( enter. 
---------------~~ ---· -­

·~ 
The Observer ; Thursday' October 18, 1979 -pag~ 7 . 
J 
j 

Indiana senator introduces 
..<AunpusInterviews 

bill toincreasestudent loans 





·TI EqUipment Group
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Sen. incentives to banks to partici­John M. Mutz said yesterday pate. ~e will ask the legislature to Mutz said similar procedures Increase the amount of money are already in use in 11 other 
M•tch your degree to OIW ntultltllde of openlnge. availa~l~ for student loans by states. 
(U.S. Cltlzenahlp required) 
aut.honzmg a non-profit organi­Under his plan, Mutz said zatton to buy the loans from Indiana banks would continue 
----------------------~-------------------­
Electrical Engineering OptiC& (Engineering)
banks. to grant the loans and would 
Mechanical Engiheering Manufac1llring Technology
The Indianapolis Republican have the final say on determin­
Industrial Engineering Process .-td Plastics 
said the proposal was a recom­ing who is ehsible. That 
Materials Science Engineering
mendation of a special task procedure, he satd, already in 
Engineering Physics Computer Science
force appointed by Gov. Otis R. use in Indiana, has avoided the Engineering Mechanics (Software/Hardware)
Bowen to study student loan loan default problem which has problems. plagued student loan programs 
------------Openings----------
Mutz said the corporation m some other states, where 
liJ'Iglneerlng/Computer Radar Design
which would be established if state agencies or the colleges 
!foftware/Hardware Computer Software 
the legislation is approved, themselves process the loans. 
Microwave Development Assembly Methods 
W<?uld sell tax-exempt bonds to The chance to sell the loans to 
Field Test Support Computer-aided Design 
ratse the money to buy student the corporation would provide 
Logic Design Computer-aided Testing ,
loans 'from the banks and then an incentive for banks to part­
Optics Design -Thin Film Coating Aerodynamics
the bonds would be repaid as icipate because they would not 
Environmental Design Control Systems
students paid back the loans. have to tie up their money for 
Space Telecommunications Applied Mechpnics 
In addition, the federal gov­years in a low-interest loan, he 
Infrared Reconnaissance Quality and Reliability Assurance 
ernment, which approved such explained. 
Thin/Thick rilm Design Manufacturing Information Systems
corporations in the 1976 federal Mutz said his plan provides 
Fab Liaison Engineering Microprocessor Design 
tax laws, provides subsidies that the corporation could pro­
Test Equipment Design Minicomputer Applications 
which allow the corporations to vide additional incentives to 
NC Programming Mechancial Design 
buy more loans and provides banks, such as buying the loans 
Systems Analysis Automated Test Equipment
for more than their value. For 
Cryogenics-Heat Transfer Manufacturing
example, the cor~o:ati?n might 
Manufacturing Supervision Project-oriented
pay a loan ongmation fee, 
Printed Wiring Board Engineering Manufacturing involving: 
similar to the ' 'pomts'' charged 
FABMethods • Coordinating 
on a mortgage, when they buy a
• • • English 
Signal Processing Manufacturing
loan from a bank, Mutz said. 

Production Contol Schedule Commitments
The task force determined 
Functional Manufacturing Engineering • Cost-Control/Budget 
there were two major problems 
Project Manufacturing Development
with Indiana's student loan
(continued/rom page 6) 
Engineering Control • Use of Real-lime
program. 

Digital/ Analog Circuit Design Computer Systems 
Assemblyman Peter Sullivan, The first was that in certain 
Thermal Analysis Manufacturing Supervision 
sponsor of the New York law, areas of the state, not enough 
Mechanical Packaging Assembly Methods 
scoffs at opponents. "Some banks were participating, and 
Tool Design FabMethods
lawyers are bitter because the second was because of the 
Antenna Design Tool Design
they're going to have to relearn increased college costs, banks 
Laser Development NC Programming
the use of the language,'' he were not able to make enough says. money available to meet the 
-"------------------Live In D•ll•• -------­
Stephen Noceti of the demand for state-guaranteed,Insurance Services Office says low-interest loans. 
The Southwest's l•rgest •net llvelle•t metropollbln .,.•• he's not even sure what all the Bowen aide Brian Bosworth 
Discover all the glitter and glamour, spectacular sport and high fashion Dallas is 
henceforths and wherefores said Wednesday the short-term 
famous for-yet an economical place to make a home. Cost of living is way below 
were doing in the policies in the problems were solved when a 
the urban U.S. average. And there's no state Income tax. The country's 7th largestfirst place. ''Consumer group of banks agreed to grant 
city has year-round sunshine plus lots of lakes and facilities to enjoy it. Dallas and contracts seem to have been loans to students outside the 
surrounding area has 47 colleges, 50 hospitals, 2 major medical education and written that way from time areas they normally served. 
research institutions, and a wealth of major media and entertainment. 
immemorialt" he says. In addition, Bosworth said, 
-· 

Richard Lohmeyer, executive additional banks have agreed to director of Plain Talk Inc., a participate in the program be­
Interviewing 011 C.mpus 
non-profit group which cause they feel a proposal such 
November7-8 
promotes the use of simple as Mutz' will be approved by languase and which is the legislature. sponsonng a conference on the Mutz said the bond sales could 
If unable to Interview at this time, send resume to: Ruth LodowskiiTexas lnstru· subject in Washington, D.C., provide up to an additionall$8 
ments/P. 0. Box 226015, M.S. 222/Dallas, Texas 75266. this weekend, says the mumbo million a year for student jumbo may have had a meaning loans, roughly the amount the 
once upon a time. He also says governor's study found was there are theories that it goes needed. He said about $20 
~ 
back to the days when lawyers million in guaranteed loans are 
i' • I 
. . • I
were paid by the word. issued in Indiana each vear. Plam Talk believes that "all The loans are primarily sought 
TEXAS ~INST.~4UMENTS
the public documents, the by students from middle class things you have to fill in or families whose incomes are too 
INCORPORATED
read. . . should be clear and high to qualify them for grants. 
An ual opportunitY. employer M/F
easy to understand,'' says and scholarships based on fin-· Lohmeyer. ancial need. 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
One problem with making 

things easier to read is deciding how easy is easy enough. 
I 
Some states use readability formulas like the one developed more thatn 20 years ago by Rudolf Flesch, a consultant. on the use of language. Lohmeyer says formulas can help, but he 
warns that their use is limited. 
,t A contract could, he says, "be 
I readable and make no sense at all." 
STEREO CLEARANCE HOUSE 
HAS LOWEST STEREO 

PRICE 
Pioneer SX780 receiver $259. 
Technics SLD2 turntable $119. 
Akai GXC706D cassette deck $159. 
Our Free Catalog has many more deals on major brands, even lower prices on our monthly specials sheet. Send now and find out how to buy current $7.9811st lp's for $3.69. Stereo Clearance House Dept. CH81, 1029 Jacoby St., Johnstown, f>a. 1m. Phone Quotes 814-536-1611. 

~--------------~---------------------------------------------~ 
I 

I I I I I I I I 
A Roosevelt University Lawyer's Assistant represents the mark of quality and acceptance In today's legal community. 
If you are a college graduate and qualify. why not gtve yourself an advantage by attending Roosevelt University's Lawyer's Assistant Program which is fully accredited by the American Bar Association. 
Since the Fall of 1974. 1250 graduates representing over 230 colleges and universities have chosen Roosevelt's Lawyer's Aaalstant Program for their career training. 
Specialize In: Corporations-Estates. Trusts and Wills-LIUgauon-Real Estate and Mortgages­Employee Benent Plana•-or become a Generalist•. 
Over 325law nrma. banks. corporations and government agencies throughout the United States have hired Roosevelt graduates. 

~~------------~~~-----­
L~~~~~~ogr~--------~8~ ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY • ~ J 430 South Mtchtgan Avenue .~ Chicago. Illlnots 60605 (312) 341-3882 Please send me tnformatton on Roosevelt's Program. D-v ProgramsO Spring 1980-February U.·May 2,-1980O Summer 1980-June 12-September 5, 1980 
D Falll980-September 22-December 12, 1980 Evening Pragn~ms D SprinJ.Summer-March 11-AuBUst 22, 198~ 
O Fall-Winter-October 7-March 28, 1981 
I I Name---------------------------------I 
Addreu ----------------Phone______ I 
I

City State Zip ---­.WO.evelt University admits students on the buls of I Individual merlt and wlt\out reJard to race. color. creed. sex. I 
I

...2!~:!!~~~~ ------­
I 
I

----------------~-----~--------~----~ 
I 
·-----------­

-
-----~-------------.....---..~....-------------------------­
-


ttort s Thursday, October 18, 1979-page 8 





P·O· Box 

Student replies to LaGrotta 
Dear Editor: 
Frank LaGrotta's Piece "Hot dogs, apple pie, Chevy and a Pittsburgh series win" left me chuckling. 
"It's the World Series--and this year we got lucky.'' 
"This year we've got a real World Series; one thats appeal is not limited to Hollywood's 
..... swingt-rs or New York's high 
.
society. " ''This year it's baseball for 
baseball's sake." This series is for everybody. '' Etcetera. Well, Frank, I hate to 
disappoint you, but almost the entire decade of the 70's has been a feast (or ·the baseball buff, come World Series time. Of course, your porous memory might have been con­veniently fQTgotten: 
a) 
the 1973 Series, when the Mets and Oakland went the full seven games. In the nir..th inning of the last game, the Mets (with Ed Kranepool at bat) had two runners on base with two outs, and still had a chance to tie the game. Obviously a dull series, Frank. The A's won the Series, 4-3, for their second of three con­secutive world championships. Not bad for a team from the flakey coast. 

b) 
the 1975 Series. Again, this series went the full seven games between Boston and Cincinnatti. It was hailed by 


DOONESBURY 
M~. AN~JR£tJ~sr 
MY NAMe IS 7./JNKER HN/1/S. 
/M/0?

1rM CAJJ.IN6 
: A801/TMYUN­
I 


many as possiblY. the greatest, and most thnlling, World Series ever. Remember Carlton Fisk's homer, Frank? Oh yeah, that wasn't a real series. 
c) The '77 and '78 Series, both between the Yanks and the Dodsers, have been both enrer­taim!lg and lively affairs, Reggie's candy bars notwith­standing. Although it was eons ago, Frank, one of baseball's most incredible comebacks transpired last August, '78, when the Yankees came back from over 14 games back to topple the Red Sox for the American East Crown. They went on to win the League Championship, and the Series. Not bad for a team that obviously suffers from mingling too much with the New York ''high society. ' ' 
I detect a bias in your column, Frank. This year's WS is for everybody, right? Baseball for baseball's sake? It also happens to be the first year since 1971 that the team from Pittsburgh is in the WS. You are from the Pittsburgh vicinity. Naughty naughty, Frank, no objectivity. 
Next time you're in New York, I'll buy you one of Reggie's candy bars. Mayor Koch would be pleased. 
Chn'stopher Stewart 

Center thanks studentc; for aid 
Dear Editor: 
During his recent tnp to the 
by Garry Trudeau 

United States, Pope John Paul II said: ''Christ demands open­1ness to our brothers and sisters in need... Christ demands an openness that is more than benign attention, more than 1token actions or half-hearted ·efforts that leave the poor as ·destitute as before or even 
more so." 
The)ustice & Peace Center in 
South Bend (a co-operative 
effort of the Holy Cross congre­
gations of Sisters, Brothers and 


What's wrong with women? 
Priests) receritly received a grant of $750 from the Mardi Gras committee. The funds will be used for educational pro­grams and for direct aid. We assist those people who fall between the cracks as it were, who for some reason or another cannot receive aid from other agencies in South Bend. 
We want the ND/SMC com­munity to know that their money is being well spent--and hopefully in a way that be-
In his column which appeared in Monday's 
Observer, Pat Byrnes presented his case for not 
allowing women to be priests. I believe that his 
arguments contain several flaws, and I would 
like to present the case for ordaining women. 
The first major flaw in his argument is the way 
in which he uses his observation that the pope is 
"one living truly in the Spirit." Unfortunately, 
he fails to realize that holiness does not 
guarantee rightness. Many saints _preached the 
Crusades and supported the In9uisuion but this 
fact does not make these two thmgs right. Even 
the holiest of men and women are caught up in 
human limitations and the culture of their time. 
The biggest flaw in Byrnes' argument is the 
way he describes the debate as one between the 
faith of the pope and the logic of his opponents. 
Even the most conservative Catholics, unless 
they are too reactionary to accept the work of St. 
Thomas Aquinas, admit that faith and reason 
are reconcilable and that a faith which is not 
open to reason is a shallow faith indeed. The 
other misconception in his description is that he 
does not attribute any faith to those who argue 
against the pope on this point. Surely the pope 
does not have the corner on the faith market. 
His opponents are people of faith who believe 
that their faith leads them to their conclusion. 
Since faith cannot be measured and since the 
side with the "most" faith is not necessarily the 
right one, we must turn to the arguments on 
both sides. 
The first obvious issue is equality. The pope 
stressed the universal dignity of mankind during 
his U.S. visit and this umversal dignity and 
equality is surely a central part of the Christian 
fauh. This univer~al equality demands that 
women be allowed to fully participate in the 
ministries of the Church. Because of this simple 
and straightforward demand, the burden of 
proof rests on those who claim that women 
should not be ordained. They must give 
fundamental reasons that override the rights of 
women to full participation in the ministries of 
the Church. . Opponents of women in the priesthood usually 
argue from one of three different approaches. 
All of these approaches have serious problems. 
Some try to undercut the entire argument by 
pointing out that the priesthood is not essential 
to one's salvation and therefore no harm results 
in reserving it to men. The shallowness of this 
argument becomes apparent by applying it to 
another group. Since a person who is called to 
the priesthood can be saYed even if he does not 
become a priest, there would be no harm in 
excluding blacks from the priesthood. Since 
many women have become saints while they 
were married and raising a family, Mexican statement that men are different from women 
and somehow concludes that women are 
therefore unsuited for the priesthood. This 
argument is simply invalid. Apples are different 
from oranges, but that does not mean that since 
apples are edible, oranges must be inedible. 
Because they are both fruit, one must show how 
the difference between them makes oranges 
inedible. In the same way, those who argue 
against the ordination of women must present a 
relevant difference between men and women 
which would make women unsuitable for the 
priesthood. This characteristic would have to be 
absolutely true for all women or else those who 
did not possess it would have to be allowed to 
become priests. 
The most common argument against admitting 
women to the priesthood is the argument from 
tradition. For 2000 years women have .not been 
ordained so we shouldn't start now, or)esus 
cho~e twelve men to be his apostles so he 
obviously 4_o~~ not want women t~ Q~ prie_s_!s. 
These arguments depend on a false assumption 
and a lack of knowledge. 
The false assumption is that tradition is binding an~ cannot be ~hanged. The ~ase of slavery easdy refutes thts false assumption. Jesus did not say anything against slavery and St. Paul strongly supported slavery. Over 1800 years of Christian tradition supported slavery, but now we consider slavery immoral. People usually say that either Jesus and St. Paul were so caught up in their human cultural limitations that they did not see anything wrong with slavery, or that they saw the evil in slavery but realized the time was not right to do anything about it. Certainly the same argument could be used to explain why they did not allow women to be ordained. 
People make this false assumption because they do not know any Church htstory. In the early Church priests were allowed to be married and women were allowed to be deacons. Obviously the tradition has changed. If it could deve~op to an all m~le celibate clergy, it can certamly develop to mclude women again, not only as deacons but as priests as well. 
Women are qualified for the priesthood and we must assume that they are qualified unless someone proves that they are not. Some women feel very_ strongly called by God to the ministry of the pnesthood. Many others may be missing their call because they do not realize that such a call is _possible. Could it be that our so called "vocations crisis" is being created by a stubborn hierarchy which refuses to allow women to respond to God's call? 
;
The;: most atroci_ous thing a~out this refusal to 'f ordam wome~ IS that It ts a strong social statement agamst them. No matter how it is 
women would have no reason to complain if they justified, the refusal says one thing: Women are were not allowed to enter the convent. Of n~t equal with men; there is something wrong course, this reasoning is absurd. But then, with women; they are not worthy to be priests. people h~ve f!lany s_ubd_e ways of trying to proye We have a name for this attitude. We call it that thetr discnmtilation does not harm Its sexism. 
.. . 
~ 

VICtims. Another argument begins with the obvious joseph M. Bender 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ........Rosemary Mills represe~t t~e opimon of a majority of Managing Editor..........Diane Wilson Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Eduonal Board. Commentaries Editon'af" Editor .. ............Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor .... ..... M. Onufrak The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community' News Editor.................... Mark Rust of the University of Notre Dame du lac an~ . the free expression of varying News Editor ...... ...........Mike Shields and Saint Mary's College. It does not optmons on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor .....Ellen Buddr. necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor ........Margie Brasstl 
speaks of the openness John Paul asks of us. Thank you for your continued generosity. Know that any and all of you are welcome to visit us at the Center on ChaJ?in Street. You too, will receive more than benign attention. As our bene­factors, you are helping us to do the work our mutual Christian commitment demands of us. 
The Justice & Peace Center Staff 
.. 

Sports Editor ........ ·'· ....... ._Mark Perry Features [!.ditor.....Kathleen ConnellyPhoto Edztor ........... ...Doug Christian 
Business Manager ........Steve Odland Production Manager .......Tim Sullivan Advertising Manager .........Bob Rudy Controller..................Kevin Manion Circulation Manager ......Greg Hedges 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers
The news is reported as accurately and
-The Observer_ 

..awa..a..a~••~......................~u..~~ 1 
·Thursday, October 18, 1979-pa~ ?·
Musicview-s





Features 
·~~;;

Eagles... 
.i~l ~~ 
.•.•.

Quietly, subtly, the Eagles release 
:::::
... Karla 
.·.·.

their first album in almost two years. .·.·. 
~ ~

With a simple black cover apparently ·.•. .·.·. 
designed to blend in with the rows of ~~-~~ Karla Bonoff has temporarily ::;:
.
·:·: blown her chance for stardom. :::::lp's in your local record store, it 

seems the champions of American ~:~: Her first album, Karla Bonoff, :m Mick Mancuso soft-rock are being overly cautious, t displayed her songwritin9 prowess :::::
t with compelling melo ies like, ;:;:: (\ ~iddle aged black !Dan in a lig~t blue suit sat solen;mlylat his table, perhaps even reluctant, about provid­dnnkmg a ~eer and ~mo~111g.Marlbor? s. Near t~e. PA .a baldtng ;Mr. Middle:::: "Someone to Lay Down Beside Me," ::;::mg some new Eagles tunes for their Class Amenca sat wtth his wife at their table: wa1t1ng. As Vegetable Buddies ~~~~ and "Isn't It Always Love?" but her :~~~­waiting public. No doubt this stems began to fill, the two guys at the front center table continued to play cards. 
:::: second.release, Restless Nights, is an ;:;::from fears about measuring up to the "We've been here since six," the one said. The person they came to see::;:: anticlimactic follow-up. ;:;:phenomenal success of 1977's Hotel w~>Uld not appe,ar U:ntil12:15_! It was not a night for Pina Colada's or MooseCalzfornia, but IS all the secrecy ·.~j__ All th~ new tunes are listenable, I 

.·.·.. j_: enJorable, they lack ;:;: River Hummer s; It was a mght whc:;n all the pitc~ers were out.

even but By 8:30 the 
the
justified? 

tables were filled and yet people cont111ued to flow tn. It was an event it was a
:;:: emotiona sincerity and subtle ;:;:

The infusion of Joe Walsh in 1976 happ_ening, it was j~st short of a religious experience. The father of ;he blues:} simplicity of the first album. ::;:provided a hard edge to the group's was tn town, McKtnley Morganfield, otherwise known as Muddy Waters. 
:::: "Trouble Again," and "Every Time ;:;:usually country-rock songs, thus 

paving the way for Hotel's ~~~~ You Walk in the Room," as t The Mark Han!lon Blues Band pl~yed two sets first of primarily rockin' blues. The all white blues band (a ranty) started their set with "Messin' with·
;:;: examples, are catchy little cliches :;:;:commercial success. On The Long the Kid." It wasn't Johnny Winters but it was solid and the band cooked.

Run, that edge has been significantly that try to pass off Karla as another t
::.:j:_= 

The performance was filled with covers and instrumencal originals. Standdulled. As a result, this new album :·:· Linda Ronstadt. Unfortunately, { outs were such tunes as "Nadine" and "Lucille" but the best was saved for will not be as readily accepted as its Karla lacks a powerful vocal style, so ::;:
:_:i:_=j 

last as the band did a Junior Walker classic, ''Shotgun.'' The Mark Hannon the songs sound like someone trying :;:;predecessor. 
Blues Band was well received by the crowd, but when Muddy entered theThis will be of great relief to :t to copy Linda, who can't quite do it. -..~·=···;=··.·=_:._.: 
place from the front door you knew who the crowd was there for. 

old-time Eagles fans, who felt their :t "Restless. Nights," "Baby Don't 
band sold out for the more market­:r Go," and "Loving You" all have ::::: By the time the Muddy Waters Blues Band came on the crowd was on top of !he pinball tables. The tension rose as the band went through three
able harder sound. In fact, only one ~:~: pleasant melodic hooks, but their :f mstrumentals without "the Man." Then, as the band broke intosong sounds like Joe Walsh, "In the :::: repetitiveness drown the songs to a ::::: 
City," and is :::: tedious level. As if that wasn't ''Hoochie-Coochie Man'', from one side of theclub rose a roar as the man the
that mostly slippery :·: 
crowd came to see ambled toward the stage. The minute he appeared theslide guitar licks, not the hard-hitting :_:::~::_·~::_=~.::: enough, these cuts come complete r place went nuts. Shouts of"oh yeah" and the like were heard from all sides. 
rhythms usually associated with]oe' s with extensive arrangements to drive :_.:.·:.·:.· 
As he settled into his stool and took his guitar, his eyes half closed, hethe same seven notes into the listener 
style. ) :::: procee~ed _to put fonh what he was famous for~ hot, tasty Chicago blues.
} over and over, almost in a comedic ::::On the whole, The Long Run is a Nothtng lS to be taken away from the rest of the Band. Guitar Jr. and Jerry 

:::.=:·:·:::.:::·

mellower, more balanced album. fashion. On Karla Bonoff, the :;:: Portnoy on harmonica were both prime elements in the sound. But it was
session musicians were used r

Don Henley and Glenn Frey .·.· 
~udd(s presence that made the mght more than just another night of blues . 
} sh,aringly to supplement and enhance ::;::composed most of the cuts, and the His voice was as strong as ever as he went through such blues classics asresulting product is a fine all-around ;:;: t e songs, but on Restless Nights, :r ~'Baby ~lease Don't Go," "Caledonia," and "Kansas City." One got thealbum. There are no outstanding · ;:;: they are excessively indulged ; they :;:;. 

:::: become the songs. ~pre~sion t~at he could play in his sleep as he played with his eyes half shut,
cuts, but each one has a great deal of ~~~~ mto h1s music. Every _now and then he would crack a devilish grin to let you ;~;~ The album is salvaged by "The ::::merit. If there is one bad song on know that he was havtng as much fun playing as the people listening in the} Letter," "Only a Fool," and "Never ::;:;the record, it must be ''The Greeks crowd. Here was a master of the art and to see him so close was anDon't Want No Freaks," a humorous :~.:~ Stop Her Heart,'' whose simpler, ·I 
. unbelievable experience. ' 
:_:_=.=..

anti-fraternity song, that can't be more acoustic arrangements and { As the set drew to an· end, Muddy put down his guitar and hopped andmellower themes are Karla's forte. :·:·taken too seriously anyway. 
bopped around the stage as he did ''Mannish Boy,'' one of his more famousHer relaxed, touching vocals moveThe band is laid back, but tight and ?: J tu~es. Although he is 75, he looks like 60, moves like 50, and plays like 30.. 
more accomplished than before. t the melodies with an emotional depth ·...=:.=.~-.: 
Wtthout a doubt, the crowd loved what they saw Saturday night as they wemSome of the guitar solos, like on ;:;: that would only be erased by an nuts yelling ''we want Muddy'' while they were standing on the tables. The"King of Hollywood" and on "I electric guitar or other superfluous t band came back to do ''Sweet Home Chicago '' sans Muddy. The crowd was
::::·::;:::.=:.=:.·.:: 
addition. This was what made her :~;~Can't Tell You Why," are crisp, slightly disappointed that he didn't come ba~k out, but nobody felt gipped.

first album so successful. :J
::

clean and mean, but they are played .• What they saw had been well worth the wait. .
down so much y_pu miss them the first ::.::. Restless Nights is obviously an •r time around. ::;·::;· uremptoo~p~remoreoommerr~ ~~~-~--------------------~--~------~ 
.=..

In summation, the Eagles have musical styles. This =_:._: ~ produced another winner, though I ::·.=·:.~=;=·=·· experimentation, however, fails to :::: ...( No cf'O Tior 
can't tell you why (no pun intended). produce positive results on this :::: ~o'\Y' Qv rl Perhaps it is because of the subtlety ::;: album. If Karla wants to make :::: Nonsense LO Oct be of the album; the artistry is so ·-~·=:~-·. money, she should be patient, and jf ~o~ 0 r 
low-key that the total effect is not compromise the sincerity of her t
:_=:=.=:·­
songwriting. It is her simplicity and :;::pleasant but not mushy. This reflects :::_:··._::;_:_: honesty which makes her so _::;·:::.· Libra (Aug. 23-<~kt_. _22): Your :e!ationship with an acquaintance will be

a confidence by the band not only in · e~hanced_. You will JOin every activity on the campus. Late one evening you 
app li h 1

themselves, but in their listeners as . ea ng, not er musica .·.·..··=··: WI11 turn mro a goat. All classes will be flunked. well, who give a little effort to really } arrangements. ·t Scorpio (Oct. 23-~ov ..21 ): Your relationship with an acquaintance will be hear what is playing. In an age ·:·: ;:;: en~anced. You will gam ten pounds. ~uring this ~onth, falling down the where searing, raunchy leads and } Iloth Articles ;:;: statrs ~ay present a problem. Raffle wm will obtam ten pounds of Purina 
plodding rythyms dominate musical entertainment, it is refreshing to find } by j~~\ Gs:~i~~~i:~ ~ov. 22-Dec. 21): Relationship with someone you know will be someone you can relax with and ·.·. enhanced. Wn~e a letter to your mother. Late in the month you will contract really listen to. And that is what Tim 'C'....OOih , Sul''z".., I n ;::: lumba_go. Famdy will move without telling you. 
Eagles fans have been telling us all w '1:' 1; v'a :r Capnc~rn (De·c. 22-Jan. 19): Ft:elings abo~t an ac9.uaintance will change.along ...... _______ .. __ __ ....... ________________ . :_~;-~: '!ou II misplace .a bar ofsoap. This week you ll blow It for your team. A single 
'flol M4 W¥ ¥ 

:::: m your _dorm will become available for you. ::·_:_:.:::::·:_~.· Aquarms Uan. ~0-~eb. 18): Relationship with someone you just met will 
stagnate. You will mhe throughout. _The Southern Cal game will find you
Keaggy Awes-in Stepan 
asleep on the floor. More confidence will produce greater profits. You will be t blasphemed at several times. KEW CONLIN ~;~ Pisces (Feb. 1?-M~rch 20): Conversation with acquaintance will be 
I 
}• enhan~ed. You will discover a cure for onomatopoeia. Just exactly who do What would you think of a guy who concert, and Keaggy touched on :~:~ you thmk you are? A pen for a class should be forgotten. A week from 
l had the particular distinction of being almost all genres of music . :_._:..=:. Tue~day you'll die in your sleep. touted by]imi Hendricks as the best · In telling the crowd of his conver­Anes (March _21-~pril_19): That conversation with acquaintance will become guitarist in the world? Well, you sion to Christianity, Keaggy mention­? heated. A realization will be made that the be:)£ things in life are free. You'II 
1 
\ 
could say that the accolade is pure ed that he discovered that there was t forge_t about a movie you'd wanted to see on' TV. As the moon eclipses you'll 
rumor, or you could have heard for more to life than money or fame. :~:~ turn mto a kleptomaniac. yourself last Saturday night in Stepan Although a/ood portion of his music :;;; . Tau:us (~fril 20-May 20): Fisticuffs will break out. Discovery of your true center. is dedicate to spreading the mess­:~:.:~_: Identity widl provoke you to ~e~l honestly with a _stranger. You're going to 
· No doubt the comment was made age of Christianity, Keaggy ripped ;:;. meet your reamboat at the dmmg hall, but bump mto a table, drop your tray, during Phil Kea~gy' s rock industry off some older runes from his ;~_;: aGend g~t. £(oMod a11 over the )plyace. h Denounce. your wifekon Thursday. 
1 
days. He has smce given up fame beginnings. . mmi ay 21-1une 20 : ou ave a gun m your poe et and there's nobody and fortune to live a relatively obsure The only drawback of the concert :::: aroun~ ro break ~t up. Chances are good of getting bitten by a rattlesnake. lifestyle· within the confines of was the sound system (next to a ? You will go to pn~o!l for fraud .. Announ~eme~t will ~orne that you may have 
'Christian music. padded room in an asylum, Stepan ;:;: already won a mdhon, dollars m a ~ubhs?ers .Cleanng House Giveawar. 
The concert began on a rather has got to be the absolute worst with .:;:: Cancer Oune 21-July 22): Relationshtp wnh an acquaintance wil be mellow noteI as Bruce Hibbard, who regard to acoustics), which emitted a .} enhanced. By the end of the month, nobody will like you, and everybody will later played bass for Keaggy, per­constant buzzing throughout the ::;: hate you.. Go eat v.:orms. Buy a gun. Many friends will flock to you. No 
formed a piano solo while Keaggy latter portion of the show. :m request will be demed. crept onto the stage in dim light and Far from the usual meticulously :_;_::·:.-_· Leo Quly 23-Au~. ~2): Y?u know that you're right. You are witty, charming, plugged in his electric. planned concert, Keaggy and his beauuful, esotenc, mtelhgent, well-rounded and loved by all. All business 
Keaggy proceeded to awe the guest, Paul Clark, offered a fresh ;:; an~ leisure ventures succeed, and when you talk, people listen. assembled with a 30 minute guitar spontaneity that was welcomed by :~;: VIrgo (A~g. 23-Seet. 22): You shoot acquaintance to terminate enhanced solo that must have made guitar the approximately one thousand peo­:r relationship. You will add~es~ the wrong issue in ~n imponant term paper. players in the audience turn green ple present. :;:; A_wareness of your tongue ISm the offing. You will quit school to become a with envy. The solo was totally I .:ion't think it was a rumor. I think 1 highwayman. · T. spontaneous, as was the entire that Jimi was right. :::: Joe Ryan 
--·----iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii---iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 



---~------~------------~~----~----~~~--------.................. 
Thursday, October 18, 1979 -page 10
The Observer 
Graduate Student Union 
w wwwwww w • 
POST -USC SOCIAL 
Suds -& Dogs Wll..SON COMMONS 3: 30 to 7:00 
Do you want to become a certified 



SCUBA DIVER? 
All interested ND-SMC students­
Organizational meeting Tuesday, Oct. 30 
at 7:30pm in Room· 2D of LaFortune 
Student Center If you are serious, come 
ready to pay g $30 deposit. 
Course Fee Includes : 
* 
Textbook and all class materials. 

* 
Your own mask, fms, & snorkel to keep.

* 
All other equipment rental 

* 
Licensed NASDS instruction 


.. 
, 

THANKS TO YOU.ALL: 
N.D. Student Body HGII collectors 
H.P.C. & HGII V.P.'s michelle RenGido 
MClldl GrGs fund Picture People (above) (Good Luck, michael Sexton, next »eat's Chalrinan) 
Ecevit resigns 

Turkish elections generate uncertaintY 
ANKARA, Turkey (AP) . 
Turkey, a key NATO ally, faces 
an uncertain future after 
national elections that 
generated more questions than 
answers. 
The immediate result of Sun­day's balloting was the resigna­tion of Premier Bulent Ecevit's 21-month-old leftist govern­ment. 
But no party now commands a majority in parliament. And, though Ecevlt has joined others in calling for a "strong and ef­fective'' new government, the likehood is a weak coalition possibly unable to take swift action. 
Such is the case at a time when Turkey, whose 30-year ex_: periment with democracy has twice been interrupted by mili-· tary intervention, faces diffi­culties at home and abroad, including: 
-Inflation approaching 100 percent. 
-Mile-long gas lines. 
-Shortages of several essen­rial goods including coffee, light blubs and medicine. -Terrorism that resulted in 100 deaths a month during Ecevit' s 
term and the imposition of . Wednesday that there was martial law in 19 provinces. "good will" between the Unit-
The Daily Crossword 





AcommUNITY EVENT 


-Negotiations with the United  ed States and Turkey in efforts  
States over four key American  to reach a new defense agree- 
defense  bases  and  American  ment by Jan. 9.  
use  of Turkey's air  space  to  But the same  official warned  
monitor the SALT II agreement,  that Turkey does not intend to  
-Difficult talks  over the long·  ,.  keep  the  four  bases  opened  
standing disJ?ute in Cyprus, the  without an agreement.  
Mediterraman island where  '  Turkey closed down the four  

18,000 Turkish troops have • bases m 1975 after Congress 
been stationed since 1974. 
Six-time former premier Suleyman Demirel and his centrist Justice Part}' were the big winners in Sunday's voting, capturing 47 l'ercent of the vote. But the mtdterm balloting involved only about a third of the nation's 20 million eli~ible voters, and Demirel is srud to favor new general elections in an • effort to win a clear mandate. 
Staging such elections won't be easy, however, even though the turnout in Sunday's voting was high: 7 3 percent despite threats by terrorists. 
Traditionally, national elect­ions are held in the spring because of the difficulty of cam­paigning and voting during the harsh Turkish winter. 
A Turkish Foreign Ministry official said · in an interview 

: imposed an arms embarso on Turkey following its invasiOn of Cyprus. However, the bases were subsequently reopened and now are of even jreater importance to the Unite States because of its intelligence loss­es in neighboring Iran. 
Th>yle wins Trojan hunt 
1/!

Peter Doyle of Grace Hall h~s won the WSND-sponsored · "Find the Trojan" contest by finding a picture of Charles White in the crook of the arm of the statue of Moses by the Library. His prize will be a homecoming packet. 
Tom Lange of Dillon and Phillip Kelly of Stanford also won packets by being selected in the lottery held yesterday. 
ACROSS DOWN 1 Rum cake 1 Black rock 5 Autocrat 2 Region of 
9 Golliwogg Italy 13 Neat as-3 -Jean King 14 Babe and 4 Put in kin chips 16 Swimming 5 Fashion place 6 Coiffure 17 Fashion feature aspect 7 Like-of 19 Icelandic 
bricks collection of poems 8 Kind of 20 Narrow way scholar 21 Immortal 9 Golf 23 Roman 52 tourney 24 Glove 10 Natural
•

leather 11 Carew 26 Yet, to 12 Guidonian poets note 
27 Doctrine 
15 -terrier 1!¥' 

30 Asian 
18 Bread measure 22 Enamored 32 Burden 
25 Italian 34 Volcanic 
beauty outputs 28 Puppet man 36 Hank of 29 Writer's baseball 
works: abbr. 38 Round­
31 -beam trippers 

33 Dry39 Coiffure 35 Faulty
feature 37 Angled42 Enter! 38 A Marx 43 Circuit 
39 Impudent courts 40 Piling up44 Startle 
41 Beauti­45 Stair tread 
cian's con­46 Weakens cern 50 O.J.'s scores 
42 Panther 51 Bikini part 45 -a picture 
(posed) 53 Jeer 47 Was very 55 Speck fond of 56 Skateboard 48 Powder: Fr. 
kin 49 Namesakes 59 Baking item of Senator 61 Broadway Thurmond 
show 52 Highway 63 Coiffure 54 One-kind 
style 57 Amerind 65 Bancroft 58 Sea bird 66 "-now our 60 Chinese 
gay appar· poet el" 61 General 67 Salon Arnold 
specialty 62 Literary 68 Kind of boy collection 69 Vacation 64-up 

.cpQaflt!! 
.on 



CJ'Qowe!IS 

Campua Dellvety In LaFottun• Just OJal 284-4841 
taR BORinG houRS ~semmt ~ lemant. 
, 
UNITED WAY AT ND: 




• 

The Observer ~ursday, October 18, 1979 -page l1 
In stock market 
!( 





Will there be another crash? 
by Greg Hedges Assistant Editori'al Editor 
Frenzied stock market activity always brings fear to the mar­ket speculator. When it occurs in the month of the 50th anniversary of the Great Dep­ression, even the most sophisti· cated investor shakes. Will there be another Crash? 
Two factors must be consi­dered before deciding the effect of the recent hysteria n Wall Street: the margin requirement and the short term interest rate. 
The low margin requirements of the 1920's are cited as a key factor in causing the Crash. When an investor decides to buy stock on the margin, he provides only a fraction of the total investment; the remaining amount comes from a loan from his broker or the bank. 
In October 1929 th~ margin requirement was so low that many people had put up only 5 or 10 . percent of their own money for the purchase of stocks. When the Crash sud­denly hit, the investor's stock was less valuable --less than the amount of his loan in most cases. The investor then re­ceives what is politely referred 
to as a margin call--that is, a telegram from his broker de­manding more collateral to co~er a certain percentage of his loan. If the investor does not have the necessary funds, his stocks are sold. This happened quite often in 1929, causing the Crash to be an endless spiral of lower stock prices and forced sales. 

''Observer Insight' ' 
The massive sales spree that is occurring as oflate can not be attributed to lax margin restric­tions. In October 1979 there exists a margin requirement of 50 percent as set by the Federal Reserve, a person may borrow no more than half the cost of a stock purchase. Even though stock prices have sharply de­clined lately, a spot check of South Bend brokerage firms shows that forced margin calls seem to be light. The market is protected from a great deal of forced selling. Last Wednes­day's record was caused by 
something closely related to the margin requirement--the short term interest rate. The Federal Reserve's recent credit-tight­ening policies brokerage houses are charging record high rates on the funds they lend to investors. Bache, Inc., for example, levies a minimum fee of 15 percent and charges as high as 17 percent interest on its smaller accountS. When investors sense a profitable market place, they do not concern themselves with the high interest rates; they borrow with the hop.e of receiving even 
Fess than lucrative market stock 

::~:::e:::::::;;;;;:::;:::::;:;.;~:·:f.::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::~:::::::~:.:.:!:!:!:::$~:%f.:::>.::!:}::?:f:~:::!:::::::::::~:!:!:::::!:!:::~:::::::::::i:::::t 

I! The Amos Tuck School I~ ~~~i of Business Administration ~~~~: 

Dartmouth College • Hanover, N.H. 
Men and women seeking EDUCATION FOR MANAGEMENT are invited to discuss the 

TUCK MBA 

with Marilyn Hammond Admissions Representative Friday, November 2 Placement Office 283-8342 :::; 213 Admtntstratlon Butldtng :;:=: 


prices fall, and investors sell · ~!:::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::;:::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::=:::=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ the stocks they own to pay back their loans; making it less profitable to borrow. It is a combination of high interest rates and a lack of money-ma­king opportunities in the mar­ket that caused last week's extraordinary sales volume. 
A Crash. will not occur as it did i~ 1929, insofar as margin reqmrements are concerned. High interest rates and a lack of profitable opportunities are the two conditions causing the cur­rent decline in stock prices. 
River (:ity Record~ Welcomes 



Jay Ferguson 
, 

of spirit and Jo Jo (;unne fume 
with spel'ial ~"!'~1 the t·ountry rt)(•k of 
~~-'. /~ ' 
..-:... . 

Heartsfield 

Wednesday, October 24 8:00pm 
Morri'Civic Auditorum 
-~~ 

Tit·kets $8.50/$7..~0 ull !"lt'Ut!ll rt•st•n•d und 


are nnw on !'mit· ut rht•r (:it\ Het·ords, 5()tJ70 liS :JI :\orth :J \lilt-s north of 
• • • Budget 

(:urnpus frorn J().J(), 7 du_)s u week. 
[conti'nued from page2J 
group also budgeted $1300 for 
losses which the board felt was 
rather extravagant. 

Arnold Air Society did not 
receive money because the 
board acknowledged that this 
group has the potential to : generate its own revenue. 
. ISEC requested funds 
because they wanted to l?ay 
tra*l expenses for lectunng 
corporate executives as well as 
takfi these speakers out to 
dinler. The board viewed this 
policy as unnecessary. 
The total figure needed to cover the additional expendi­tures the board voted to allot came to $3260. The board had initially alloted $1510 for appeals at the September bud­get hearings. By using this fund the deficit was then reduc­ed to $1750. Deliberation on the source of the needed re­maining sum ensued. 
The Board finally decided to extract $960 from the HPC budget. HPC was targeted for the loss of funds because they were the only group that re­ceived an increase in their budget this year. 
Ellen Dorney, HPC chairman attempted to justify the high with information on the issue 
( :ull 277-·l2·l2 for rurther inforruution
HPC allotment on the basis of during the meeting. the much needed hall improve­No formal date has been set 
A Hot Lt·~s Produt·tion
ments it produces. However, for the next Board of Commis­
she also stated that HPC has sioners meeting, though they 
recently met with the Amini­are expected to meet after 
stration to discuss the question break. 
of . whose responsibility hall 
mamtenance expenses are. · 
The board is hopeful that the · 
University administration will 
assume some of this financial 
burden. 
The remaining deficit of $789 was deducted from the Student Government $5000 contingency fundttraditionaUy established to cover any. deficit spending that clubs may incur. 
Paul Stauder, a student rep­resenting the newly formed Student Committee on Tenure surprised the board with a~ unscheduled appearance. Stauder requested permission to sit in on the Board of Trustees meeting today in order to inrorm the trustess of the 
-~ ' .
committee ~ .mtents to present a formal crmque on the entire tenure issue. ·However the board denied Stauder's request to atrend t~e meeting because Beth Iambnco, Student Union Academic commissioner is already presenting the trus;ees 



..1 

-ans 
Hunter's handsgold~n 
-

·-----·-----------------------..a~~·----------·
... 

The Observer -Sports Thursday, October 18, 1979-page 12 



"Tony could definitely play for any team in the nation," emphasizes Insh lineb(lfker coach George Kelly. 


Gottickets? Call Robinson 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -The nationally televised game season, Robinson admitted the big question as Southern Cal between the two archrivals. Irish have one edge. prepares to face Notre Dame in Southern Cal is 5-0-1 after 
_ "If you just look at the stats,South Bend this weekend is not being tied by Stanford last then you have to give them anhow the Trojans plan to contain Saturday and dropped from edge in the kicking game," heVag as Ferguson, nor how well first to fourth in the national said. "But our guy may comeUSC's Charles White can run poll, No,re Dame, 4-1, is ranked out and hit 6-of-6, you neveragainst the Irish.. ninth. 
know. He hasn't been kicking''The big question,'' said a The <;ontest, Robinson said, well for us, but I still believe
bemused Trojan Coach John ''looks like a very even game to Eric Hippis a good kicker." 
Robinson, "is does anybody 
me, Notre Dame is a great 
Chuck Male is nine for 10 inhave any tickets? My mair 
football team, as alw·wc;. '!agas 
field goals for the Irish this fall, problem this week is not to get 
Ferguson looks improved over 
while Hipp has hit just one ofthe team ready for the game, 
last year, and they do with him 
his seven attempts. His lastbut to get my hands on some 
what we do with 1Charles White 
tickets. , try, from 39 yards out as time 
-give him the football a lot." 
ran out in the Stanford game,''I'm finding out how many Robinson said that he figures was blocked after holder Scottfriends I have,'' Robinson it will be a low-scoring game, Tinsley had trouble placing therelated earlier this week. "I get 
since both teams will probably ball.
calls that start, 'I know you're 
try to r-stablish their running
busy and I'm sorry to bother • 'I've been told by boosters
attack early in the contest.
you. . . My brother-in-law's that we had the kicker too close uncle is dying of cancer and it's ''And while. I know the to the line of scrimmage, and his dream to go to the USC­thougi.t is that if you stop also that we had the kicker back Notre Dame game...Can you Ferguson, you stop them, or too far," Robinson related, come up with 50 tickets for stop White and stop us,'' the smiling. ''And I expect to get a 
tm.:>"'
h. coach added. "But both teams letter sometime this week 
The coach's ticket dilemma can throw the ball, too, so you telling me that we should try illustrates the interest, in both can't just concentrate on holding the ball upright, rather Los Angeles and South Bend, stopping the run." than flat on the tee...like it was surrounding Saturday's On past performance this when Scott finally got it down.'' 

Notre Dame and South'rn Cal were the final choices ofTony Hunter before he finally selected the sunny climes of South Bend. [photo by John Macor]. 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 
When they gather after the season down at Mary O'Grady's pub, you can bet your four-leafed clover they'll be drinkin' a few to the Fightin' Irish. And when the talk turns to Tony Hunter.. .' 
''Hurry now, Mrs. 0 'Grad)', and bn'ng us another round here. We've got to be drinkin' to this fine spnght ofa lad!'' 
Chances are, Hunter will de­serve every drop of golden ale that's raised in his name. The 6-5 split end is a glove fit for the "hands of gold" tag reserved for only the best receivers. After five games this season he has 10 catches to his credit for 271 yards. 
If you've misplaced your slide rule, that's 27.1 yards every time he gets his mitts on the ball. 
"BegoTTah, Mrs. 0 'Grady! Send out a tub o'green beer, if you please!" 
Of course, sometimes Hunter gets more than his average ­like last Saturday, for instance, when he shelled the Air Force secondary for 80 yards and a touchdown on the very first play of the second half. 
Shades of Pearl Harbor! (Which, by the way, was the last time anyone so shocked the 
U.S. military). 
But as Hunter streaked into the end zone, some patriotic official decided that Notre Dame had interfered on the 
play. Sio for God, country and semper fidelis he threw the flag and Hunter's effort was all for naught. 
"Every time I score, I look back up the field for a flag," admits Hunter, who has scored more than his share of six-poin­ters since he started playing 
football back in Cincinnati. ''Or ball, three times in basketball 
course I was upset that the and twice in track at Cincinnati 
touchdown didn't count, but, Moeller High School. He 
after looking at the films, there captained all three sports as a 
really was no interference on senior to become the first 
the play." three-sport captain in Moeller's 
But Hunter was determined to history. When it came time to 
get that long touchdown on pick a college, Hunter narrowed 
Saturday, so when quarterback • his final choice to two schools: 
Rusty Lisch called the same Notre Dame and Southern Cal. 
play early in the last quarter, How ironic ... 
number 85 made sure nothing ''Both schools had many 
went wrong. He beat his man strong points," says Hunter. 
again, caught the ball and flew ''But I just felt I'd get a better 
75 yards for the score. education at Notre Dame." 
This time there were no flags. For a good student who plans 
''It was nothing more than a on a career in either business or 
simple sideline pattern,'' ex-communications, the education­
plained Hunter modestly. "I al advantages of Notre Dame 
just got behind the defender far outshined the sun ·of south-
and started running. ' ' ern California. 
When he stopped, Lisch and • 'When I graduate from Notre 
he had orchestrated the sixth-Dame, I know I'll be able to get 
longest pass play in Notre a job," he adds. "That's why 
Dame history and the longest I'm going to college." 
since 1958 when Bob Williams His decision to attend Notre 
hit Gary Myers for 75 yards Dame was also influenced by 
against the Navy. several Moeller teammates who 
''It was exciting to catch the were ~lready wearing the Irish 
second one after the first one green and gold. "I knew Bob 
was called back,'' Hunter smil-Crable, Timmy Koegel and Jay 
ed. "Besides, it was my first Case from high school and they 
long touchdown catch at Notre all said this was a great place to 
Dame and I'll always remember come," Hunter points out. 
that." "We knew we had to have 

If Hunter hopes to remember Tony here," points out Koegel, all of his catches he better get a who threw to the big receiver in large file and start listing them high school. "He's the kind of game-by-game. Nowhere does receiver a quarterback loves to ­the cliche, "and he's only a throw to because he's so tall · freshman!'' more aptly apply and he hag a great ability to get than to Hunter who sometimes open and fina UJc: ball.'' fools unknowing observers into But Hunter was not only persu­thinking he's a seasoned veter-aded by the people he knew. an. What really inspired him were 
"Tony could definitely play for the people he met on his visit to any team in the nation," states Notre Dame. "The quality of George Kelly, the Fighting people here is unbelievable," Irish linebacker coach. "He exclaims Hunter. "I met the has great ability and a great coaches, the players and a attitude.'' . whote lot of students and Kelly was right -especially. everyone seemed to have a about the first part because genuine concern for other Hunter could play for any team people. Southern Cal has great in the land... athletes and so does Notre 
And when hewasa high school Dame. But Notre Dame has senior, every one of them was better people.'' after him. Just who has the better athle­

,'It got pretty hectic there for tes should become evident a-awhile," remembers Hunter, round 3 p.m. Saturday as the who was a first-team selection Trojans invade Notre Dame· on everv All-American team in stadium for their annual clash the co~ntry. Named Ohio with the Irish. For Hunter, it is Player of the year after his the game of a lifetime and he senior season, that included 35 plans to show the Trojans what catches for 11 touchdowns, Hunter lettered twice in foot-

Tony Hunter 
they missed out on. 

"Hey, they're a super-talent­ed team," he points out. "But don't sell us short, either. I think the one thing we have to push us over the top is our pride. Pride in ourselves and in our school. That's instilled by our coaches and by the great tradition of this place." :rl 
''I believe in myself and in my teammates and coaches,'' he continues. ''I know every one of us will do the best we can ... 
"That's all you can aSk of anyone.'' · 
It should be another great experience to add to his first eight weeks of college life. •'I'd be lying ifl said I didn't love it here," he admits. "I've never regretted my decision for an 
.

Instant. " "I thought I'd get to play but I never e"Xpected to starr," he says. "But that stuff isn't the most important thing to me. Heck, I'll scrub floors if it'll help us win." Basically, for Tony Hunter, football is a simple game. "I just love catching passes,'' he says softly as if the act were something sacred to him. ·'I believe God gave me an ability and every time I use it I am honoring Him. It's a great teeling to catch a pass and Wtow you are helping your teamma­tes. It's something I hope I can do for a long, long time." 
''Did ya hear that one Mary? Then bn'ng a mug for all the guys cause we got us a dandy to dn'nk to!'' 
"Here's to Tony Hunter! The best pair o' hands in the land!" 
' '\ ' c ­
.. ~ t l I -I I A ~ ' 
~ •· •· .. -;; j' • ' 11 ~-• • ' : 1 i .
I ' 

--------~-----------------------------------­
................... 

The Observer -Sports Thursday, October 18, 1979-page-13 
·~ ,~Miles To Go... 

We, of Notre Dame 
by Butch Ward 

This column is reprinted from the Oct. 26, 1973, t'ssue of The Observer. On the following day, Notre Dame was to host Southern California at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Thi5 is not one of those all-too-frequent "we ought to be" columns. Today, I think it's much more appropriate to write a "what we are" column. 
And of what we are today, we can be very proud. 
As the week draws closer and closer towards that climax Saturday at the Stadium, it is becoming increasingly obvious that we are indeed Notre Dame. 
All of us. Together. We are Notre Dame. 
It's been called a fever, a pulse, a silent roar. Whatever it is, it's highly contagious and very healthy. It's brought us all together, all behind one objective, all into the same feeling of family again. 
It's brought us all back to Notre Dame again. 
We are rapi~y approaching a Saturday afternoon when for three hours there will be critics, no dissidents, no prodigal sons. We will ·be Notre Dame, and we will be one. 
· And upon closer examination, it begins to become clear that perhaps we are ooe more often than we think. 
That oneness appears periodically throughout the year, unmistakeable, but all-too-fleeting. It's. there on that first day back from summer vacation, it's there during a walk back from that final exam, it'a tf-.ere on that bleak February night when the singing drunk walb put the dorm window and we are lonely and we are one. 
B·,n for some re& '00, the oneness that joins us together this weekend is ~ ~.ateDSe than at any other time. The other moments ofODPt" ..a are there, and should be far more consciously celeb~_,. .-.c they lack the fervor of the feeling that joins us ~,.• .a· riaht DOW • 
..J~S weefend we are one, one in purpose, one in spirit, one m Notte Dame. Thls weekend there is no administration, no faculty, no alumni, no student body. Only Notre Dame. 
When the national anthem echoes its final notes, and that brigade hv Beth Huffman Friday is a hectic day for the know that the older players ar.e of green shirts and gold helmets breaks in to full view of the Women's Sports Editor committee with set up at Stepan still!interested.'' packed throng, the oneness will be fully realized. There will be no beginning around 2 p.m. Ropes Waymer feels the rally truly barrier separating those in the stands from those on the field. Getting ready for a football are set up to restrain the crowd benefits all. 
We will be one. We will be Notre Dame. game is a lot likt" putting from interfering with the band ' 'It is optional for the team to Those who hear us during this weekend will hear very little talk of together a jigsaw puzzle. The and guests. The stage and attend, but usually' everyone how ''the team is doing'' or how ''they will beat USC.'' They will coaches and players form the sound system must be set up goes. I know that I really enjoy hear words of "we", words of "us", words of oneness. heart of the puzzle while the and checked. them. I do think it mostly helps 
For Saturday afternoon, the stadium floor will not only be covered band and cheerleaders closely Just prior to the rally the the crowd and students get into with the shoulder-padded, well-prepared members of the varsity. bind the heart to the border speakers and the master of the game. Father Hesburgh will be out there, your English prof will be out pieces, the students and ceremonies, Gary Sieber, get --"Digger is a/motivator,'saysthere, David Domer, class of '46 will be out there, and Joe Sorin alumni. together and plan an outline of Waymer of the Irish basketbal and Mary Badin will be out there. One vital piece is needed to events. coach. ''Hopefully he can get 
. " 
Notre Dame will be on that field. complete the puzzle, the very "Usually the rally is pretty everyone gomg. 
And that's pretty amazing. Despite the bickering, the center piece. Spirit forms the spontaneous. We basically iWaymeq~tresses thatthe team differences, the personality clashes that transpire all week long, nucleus when preparing for a leave order up to the speakers prepares mentally throughoutwe will still be one come Saturday afternoon. It's happening right game, espectally one like because they usually have a the week, but the emotions do now. Southern Cal. preference,'' says Pinkowski. come to a peak at the rally. 
Perhaps it is tragic that only on the football field can \ve all come Everyone is busy getting ''This is the first year that "Right after our game with together as one. But that claim is ludicrous. The only real tragedy psyched to defeat the Trojans in we're totally independent," Air Force we staned gettingis that we are only con<.:r;"US of our oneness in the context of his own way. Some are out remarks Pinkowski. "We ready for Southern Cal-we take the athletic field. 'T.. . where we must grow. We must become buying everything green in asked Student Government for each game one-by-one. We'll conscious of · · t0 .hat binds us together throu~hout the year. sight, some are saying novenas, $600 that we needed to have a be ready, but as soon as this 
The force n.c:tt makes it possible for Saturdays hke this one to and some are sending letters to great year, but they only gave 'JOe's over--we1f-be 'thinking occur. The force that somehow unites us and brings us together as Santa Claus. us $100. We'll have to get by. about South· Carolina.'' Notre Dame. Rick Pinkowski, chairman of Unless an interest is shown in 
And the force is here, and it is unique. It's not merely a fanatic the pep rally committee, and thd South. Carolina rally, we'11 desire to win, because there are many schools with an equally his workers are planning a rally have to cancel it because we great urge to come out on top. to join all the emotions boiling just can't afford it." Miller pressured 
But there's only one Notre Dame. . across campus. The Southern Though production of the 
It's not merely a fanatic desire to defeat USC because of their Cal rally, ltke all others sche­rally is often a hassle Pinkowski TEMPE, Ariz. (AP) ·Arizona domination in recent years. Because they've certainly dominated duled this year, went into the feels the troubles are worth the State Athletic Director Fred other schools much more completely than this one. planning stage last spring. results. Miller, pledging new data to But there's still only one spirit like this one. It is unique. The committee is responsible "I think it's for the team, the support his firing Coach Frarik 
It's that same nameless force that brings us together, calls us to for reserving Stepan Center, student body and the alumni. It Kush, says· a booster be one, and names us "we"; it is the force that demands that we contacting the band and cheer­gets the crowd really psyched organization's :call for his own prevail on Saturday. And one who looks closely will find the same leaders, lming up speakers, and and motivated for the next suspension is "hasty and based force driving us throughout the year. publicizing the rally. day." on emotion, not fact.'' 
The difference lies in our recognition and admittance of a ''Over the summer I wrote Leprechaun Steve Muething The call · for Miller's common goal. We are different this week because not only is the letters to old football players also feels that pep rallies are a suspension came from the oneness there as it is all year long, but because it is admitted, like ] ack Snow and Ziggy. We vital asset to the Irish spirit. 13,245-member Sun Angel heralded, and celebrated. · try to get all-Amencans or "It sets the tone for the Foundation, Arizona State's 
We are more than a school. We are more than a three·pronged names people will recognize entire weekend,'' comments largest athletic booster and mix them with modern era Muethin~. "Those guys (the organization, which also institution intent upon some educational prowess. players,'' explains Pinkowski players) JUSt love it. It helps the announced it was suspending 
. _We have the potential of being a family. And what holds us back about speaker selection. team know that the students are _its financial ·support of the is the same thmg that holds so many families back. We are afraid Pinkowski stresses that coach­really there." school. to subordinate our differences, and celebrate our oneness. es, players and on-campus fig· ''We practice a couple of 
Miller, who has conducted 
But this Saturday we are that family. We are celebrating our ures also make interesting hours a day during the week, news conferences repeatedly oneness. We are seeing our differences for what they are. And guests for the rallies. Head­but when we (the cheerleaders) 
since firing Kush last Saturday. 
they are not enough to destroy what we have together. lining the Southern Cal speak­get together half an hour before called yet another to "make That is "what we are." We are one. Of that, we should be ers will be Dan Devine, assist­the rally we really get up and sure that everything I saidproud. ant coach Gene Smith, Chuck that carries you through,'' adds before is validated .• ' Notre Dame, we will not be denied. 
Male and Digger Phelps. Muething. The Arizona Republic, the Of the upcoming Southern morning newspaper in nearby
Cal rally, Muething remarks, 

Phoenix, saiti today that what "We've been waiting for this Miller referred to only as ''new
Student basketball tix to be distributed 
one for a month. The crowd will data" would be sworn state­


set the pace at this rally, no 

ments from persons with know­
Nov. 9. Tickets wilf be issued that does not claim their ticket matter what happens they're

Notre Dame undergraduate, ledge of Kush's having graduate, law and married stu­during the hours of 8:30a.m. to by Friday, Nov. 9, will have going to be excited. ' ' punched a player. dents and Saint Mary's stu­4:30p.m., noon hour included. their money refunded to them. Dave Waymer,. tri-captain of dents who purchased season All students must present Each student may present a this year's football squad, also basketball tickets this past their ID's to receive their maximum of two (2) irl's when feels the rallies are a part of 
Interhall
spring or this fall may pick tickets. Since all student ticket picking up tickets. Notre Dame spirit. them ue at the box office, orders have been previously Information re~arding the "It lets you know that every­availablility of ttckets for away body is still behind you. Seeing Football
second floor or the/Athletic and assigned in the respective seat· 
Convocation Center, from Tues­ing areas, it does not matter games can be obtained at the everybody is following you is a Flanner 13. Keenatr7 day, Nov. 6, through Friday, when you report.• Any student Gate 10 box office in late good feeling. It also lets us Standford 14, Zahm 13 November. 


--~·--------------------------------------------------·----------------·.------------·~--------~, 
.. 

The Observer : Thursday, October 18, 1979-page 14 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli 


Sorin stag~s pep rally t<?night 
Sorin Hall will sponsor a USC pep rally on the porch of Sorin tonight at 8 pm. Chuck Male, Scott Zettek, Bobby Leopold, Brendan Moynihan, Coach ] oe Yonto and officer Tim McCarthy will speak at the rally. 
The hall will hold a talent show Saturday at 9:30 a.m. featuring 12 student acts. Everyone is invited. 
ClassifieC.s  All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad Is run. The Obltrwr office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either In person or through the mail.  



1 Personals 
Live ...from St. Mary's... this is College Bowl! 1ndividual and team registration continues in the Office of Student Activities, LeMans through Friday, Oct. 19th. Contestants, judges, moderate time and scorekeepers needed. 
Happy Birthday, Katie! [Do quail have birthdays?) 
Buy your porn poms today to trounce USC create a porn porn sea. 
How can I lick that whr;le thing? 
PITTSBURGii CLUB THERE WILL NOT BE A BUS LEAVING SATURDAY NIGHT. ALL BUSES WILL LEAVE ND/SMC ON SUNDAY* OCT. 21, 9:00am. 
ATTENTION SENIOR TRIPPERS: Don't pass up the unique opportunity to meet THE SEX GODDESS* MICHELLE STEIL, as she makes her birthday appearance, Oct. 24th on the Acapulco Bay. Look for the pink robe hiding a cellophane bikini. . Michelle w_ill be serving Greek :Jastncs and_ dancmg _to Hava Nagila. Plecse brmg Tequila Sunrises in lieu of f'owers. Remember 
Michelle, pretend  it s  someone  else's  
bech.  
Love,  

Wi ndson'] Man and the Gang 
Dear Sundance, How about a duck shower? Patty 
St. Louis Club Beer &1d Pretzel Party, Wed., Oct. 24, 8:00-? 7128 S. Rock Hill Road near Grant's farm.. Watch for upcoming newsletter for more info., 
Lick USC! 
WSND "AM 64 bids you AU-Bowl with new Rock and Roll. 
Buy your porn poms today. A green and gold wave will wash USC away. 
Will trade room reservation at Holiday Inn, Friday and Saturday, for USC tix. Call 8368. 
Happy Birthday, Tom. Looking forward to giving you your present; you're no longer jailbait! Love, Usa from University of Florida. 
Buy your Porn poms today Ferguson will be gaining As our colors are waving. 
Want to go to the Kansas concert with a gosh-darned great guy. Call Bob (BC) at 
'3324. 
A massive CHANGE is COMING. 
B&B, Thank you both for the wonderful time on Saturday. 
Love, B&L For future reference: Courtesy Cab 
233-4040. 
Who is the Irish Army? 
Make suckers out of Southern Cal. 
Going, Guing, Gone!!! If these three words sound good to you and you are a wild and crazy guy, then apply to be Auctioneer for the SMC class of '82 Happy Hayride and Box Dinner. Apply by phoning Leslie (4349) no later than We_d., Oct. 31. 
It's Greg Larkin's birthday today. Girls. give this loyal Pittsburgh fan a call at 8319 and wish him ahappy 18th anytime. He'll be u~ all night! 
Huggy, Lacey, and Sweet Pete: 2 Raquel Welch look-alil<e Lewisites would consider playing stri~· dictionary if we can choose the words! (P.S. You won't sleep through this game, Jim.) 
Happy belated birthday to Gar-Bear, Frick and X-Frack. 
Bobby c.­It's amazing. The only "~ranky" one in the past 3 weeks has been ~our hospital bed' Keep on smilin', kiddo. 
MA 
lggy Ia bombom 
lggy Ia piggywiggy 
Offa Ia goffawoffa 
Ooh ah! ooh ah! 
Badin football rah! rah! rah! 
Notice to the ND-SMC Community: All classifleds are to be purchased [2) two days before you want them to appear. [ex., If you want the ad to appear on Friday, you must place It no later than Wednesday.) Thank you! I 
Buy Your porn poms today One flick of the wrist Will create an evil hiss 
Editorial cartoonist is sought by The Observer to prepare satirical artwork on controversial Notre Dame-Saint Mary's subjects. Paid' position. Call Ann Gales, Editorial Editor, 8661 or 2n-4976. 
Notre Dame lollipops? I thought I had seen everything! 
Buy your porn poms today With porn poms to lead the fight We will stop Charles White 
Today is Linda Hoyt's birthday. Call her at 41-4123 and wish her a happy 21st. Call her while she is still sober. 
Wear Green Green Green preen Green ~o Stepan and Sarin's Pep Rallies! 
Happy birthday, Ethel, our "wino" in 304 Walsh. Call and wish her three cheers at 4678. 
Mutt and Jeff 
Sue, Best wishes on your birthday, youngster. Hope yours is as -great as you helped to make mine. 
B.T. 
Due to the fact that it is Mike Fell's Birthday tomorror, the double quiz has been cancelled. 
EmiiT. 
Do the Monster Mash, ­It will be a graveyard smash! 1ct. 31 Ste n ent r : 1: 
Tbere are easier ways to pay for college. 
Conducting telethons, waiting tables or parking cars may not be the only ways to help you pay for college. There may be a scholarship or grant available that you've overlooked. Or it may be as simple as cutting back on expenses. Read the next issue of Insider and find out. 
Ford hopes this next issue of Insider will give you a "better idea" for paying your way 
through college. And if you need a set of wheels to get you around campus, check out the sporty Fords for the 80's. Look for ln.drJcr..-lbrd's comtnutna series of Callqt IM!Wspaper IUIII*••at& 
.FORD 
FORO DIVISION ~ 

G.W., Ellen, Tim, Chuck, Joe, Stephen, John. and Kecka -oh oh -Here come the Katters! 
A CHANGE from Blue to Green, as has never been seen IS COMING! 
Mary! Good luck in the marathon. We've got faith in you--Joe and Greg. 
Monotheistic DOCTRINE of Reincarna­tion in the Torah, the Prophets and the Gospels. Write: The Truth of Islam, 
P.O. Br;~x .4494, South Bend, Indiana 46624. 
The Irish Army Says: Sorin Pap Rally Tonight at 8:00. BE THERE! 
SCHLOMG presents MASSIVE TAIL­GATER! Saturday at 9:00am across from Senior Bar. Look for the flag! Get with SCHLONG! GO IRISH! WATCH OUT FOR SCHLONGI A HOMECOMING PARADE? YOU'VE GOT TO BE KIDDING! SCHLONG! 
Vote 1or the SCHLONG Homecoming Queen of your choice at 905 Notre Dame Avenue Thursday night. 
OC Girls Team-_ Thanks for all the great moments and fun times. Don't hang your heads, in our opinion, you're all winners. 
The Coaches 
Greg, 
Have fun in Acapulco, but be sure to puU all your "bites". and do not carry Mexican "hoofers" around in your mustache! P.C.R.N. 



Happy Hour Mon.-Fri. 3pm -7pm 
GO IRISH BEAT U·S·C· 


STYLE SHOP 1437 N. Ironwood Dr South Bend 277-0615 Sue.. Ru~ie, K1m Armando--stvliSt 
mon:..wed-frl 8-5:30 tuea-thu11 8-8 pm 
·~t 8~2. 

by appt. only at~no appl needed 
• I I • • ... I •
4 ~· -­


• 

·­
' 
I 
1 
~ 
. Thursday, C-ctober 18, 1979 .;~ i5· 


' 

PAY NO MONEY during October. $77.:j()/month afterwards-· MULTIPLE VACANCIES, N.D. Apart nents -call 
•Jam1e 283-1187. 

Livt Octouer Free For Rent: Campus View ape. for rent with throe male students $100/morth. All utilities included. Call Brian 277-507£.. 
FOR RENT: FemJie roommate wan:ed to sublet Campus View apt. Live with tt:ree other girls. $100/month, all utilities included. 
all Kathy, 283-1320. 
' 

Wanted 
I'm homesick for the land of 10,000 lakes! 
Need ride to Minnesota for Oct. break. Will share expenses and driving. Call Zelda Ray at 8135. 
Need ride home from Des':~oines, Iowa after October break Oct. 25-28. Will 
_share driving, expenses. Brian 3038. 
Need ride to St. Louis. Want to leave Sun., return Thurs. or Fri. Kate 7711. 
Buspersons and dishpersons needed ­male or female. Apply at the Carriage House, 24460 Adams Road, 272·9220. 
MODELS WANTED. local professional agency recruiting new models. Appll­cant~ must be good looking, dependable, fashJo~able and professional minded. Expenence oot needed. For information on Interview date, call MODELS* Inc., at 212-1036 between 12 pm and 4 pm. 
--~---------------­
~eeded: Room in car trunk for misc. 1tems going back to campus from N J Willing to pay $. Call Don 6756. · · 
Ne~ Jersey Club Happy Hour at Goose's. Fn., Oct. 19th, 10 am-6 pm. All are welcome! 
Still need a ride to Omaha after usc call Colin -8736. ' 
Need a ride back from Des Moines, Iowa, area after fall break. Call Steve at 1062. 
Need ride to Massachusetts for break. Will share usual. Call 1272. 
For Sale 
2 GA's and many student tix needed for USC. Money absolutely no object. Pate 
8865. 
$25.00 Need ND·UT football tickets Nov. 10. .Will pay $25 per. Send tickets C.O.D. to Kurt, 1025, Sunset Dr., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37377. 
Wanted: 1 or 2 GA's to Navy. Call Bill 1108. 
Need 6 GA tix to South Carolina. Will pay. Call Herman 233-4972. 
South Carolina Tickets Will trade 2 students for 1 GA and buy another GA for mega bucks. Will work any deal to your satisfaction. Phone 3454. 
WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR SIX GA 
TICKETS TO PHONE 3454.  SOUTH  CAROLINA.  
POOR POOR arriving this  PITIFUL weekend  ME' with  People no USC  

tickets. Please help this hapless host. GA's preferred. Call Brien 3062. 
Desperately need 4 GA tickets to Navy game Call Dick 1224. 
Need 3 Navy tickets. Call 256-8301 days, 291-5742 evenings, PLEASE. 

'ately. Call Tom 234-3301. Support the Knights of Cclumbus sucker sale ('lo, we're not selling Tex).
Need two GA tickets for S. Carolina. Call 1338. Show us your smarts, ST. MARY'S Register for College Bowl in the office of 
Need 2 GA's for South Carolina. Enjoy 

Student Activities • Le Mans. Deadline is 
break, sell me tickets. Steve 3276. Friday, October 19th.
. 

Need two GA 's to South Carolina. Fiance To the girl I was screwed with. Even and daughter coming. Desperate. though you are not short or ~ound or even Stoney 8391 . have kinky hair, I still had a great time Friday night. Thanks a lot. 
Need 2GA tix to S. Carolina . Call Rene. 
Linville 
SMC (4006). 

Cute I need 3 tickets for Navy. Call Sandy at (SMC) 4950. . To Nurse Laubs -here is your personal. 
Now come to our party.Need 3 GA USC tickets. Call Jeff 1462. I you can't take the Er.dangared Specln,
Selling student season ticket for last 3 get It out of the Dome. games. Call 232-5345. Today is Thursday, Oct. 18. And at 4:20 Need 2GAS. Carolina tix: call Jim: 1195. this afternoon my wildest dreams (well ...) will come true. Peanut butter and Help! I need 2 GA tickets for So. tunafish for dinner! Yipee!!!
Carolina. Will pay bucks. Susie 4-1-5123. 

Lizzard Rochford and her flailing arms, happy 19th birthday. Love--Your 
Dnperately need 1-4 USC tlx for my buddies. family. GA or student. Plene call Bill 3342. WSND "AM 64 bids you AU-bowl" with new rock and roll . 
Looking for two GA's to 'the USC game. Will pay good money! Help me and your 50 cents for a thousand licks. "the Max" Art-1431. 


Thursday, October 18, 1979 -page 16
_J2orts 


Stargell two-run home run lifts Bucs to '79 Series title 
BALTIMORE (AP) -Remark­hander Scott McGregor, who when the Series-was best-of­able Willie Stargell cracked a pitched a courageous game in mne. game-winning two-run homer defeat for the Orioles. McGregor nursed a 1-0 lead Wednesday night to give Pitts­In the ninth, Pittsburgh added through the first five innings, a burgh a 4-1 triumph over the two wrapup runs, against a lead provided by a third-inning 
Baltimore Orioles and make the parade of five Baltimore relief nome run by Rich Dauer that Pirates only the founh team to pitchers. set off a long, loud celebration overcome a 3-1 game deficit Phil Garner opened with a by the crowd of 53,733 that and take a best-of-seven World double to left -his 12th hit of included President Jimmy Car­
Series. the Series -and scored on Omar ter and Speaker of the House Stargell, known affectionate­Moreno's third hit of the game. Thomas "Tip" O'Neill. 
ly as "Pops" by the rest of the A single by Tim Foli moved McGregor opened the sixth by Pirates, put the third of his four Moreno to third and then Dave retiring dangerous Parker on a hits for the night over his Parker and Bill Robinson were roller to second. That , brought team's bullpen in the sixth hjt bl pitches, forcing home the up Robinson, who bats cleanup 
inning for his third homer of the ftha Pirates run. in Manager Chuck Tanner's 1979 Series. The Series loss, after they had lineup against left-handers but 
The 33-year-old captain of the won three of the ftrst four ~its on the bench against right-1 Pirates is one of the few players games, was a heartbreaker for 1es. left from the 1971 World the Orioles. They went into a Robinson ripped a single past 
Champions who clinched their stifling slump after Game Four shortstop Kiko Garcia, bringing 
title exa~tly eight years ago, and never came out of it, Stargell to the plate. also agamst the Orioles and snap_ping a string of 21 score­Willie the Wonder Man wast­also in Baltimore. less mmngs with a run in the ed no time. He jumped on the 
He was the 40th player in third. -ftrst pitch from McGregor and W(orl.d Series history to get four They launched a crowd-thrill­sent It soaring high and far into htts m a game and the fourth ing comeback attempt in the the night. Form the crack of the 
Southern Cal football coach ] ohn Robinson could use a few batter to do so in this Series. eighth inning that was ended by bat it was gone, another one of 
tickets to Saturday's game. See page 12. Stargell unloaded against left-Pirate relief ace Kent Tekulve his rainbow homers that landed with three Orioles standing on beyond the Pittsburgh bullpen the bags. Tekulve, the fourth in right fteld well ~ver 400 feet Pittsburgh pitcher went on to from home plate. complete a four-hitter. 
Pittsburgh's historic come­

Weaver : 'Our bats went stale' 
back from the 3-1 deftcit match­ed the accomplishment of their 
Hockey tix

BALTIMORE (AP) ·"Our bats ship ring." as he retreated toward the 1925 club that came back went stale one game too soon,'' The Orioles had scheduled the fence. against the Washington Sena­Manager Earl Weaver said parade, win or lose. Tekulve, routed in the six-run tors, the Detroit Tigers against Students still interested in 
a&er his Baltimore Orioles Second baseman Rich Dauer Baltimore eighth inning in the the S t . Louis Cardinals in 1968 purchasing season hockey tic­struggled at the plate for a third produced the only two Balti­fourth game, allowed one hit in and the New York, Yankees kets for the 1979-80 season consecutive losing game as the more runs in the last three four and two-third innings in against the Milwaukee Braves should waste little time in doing Pittsburgh Pirates won the 1979 games with a double play his final two appearances, in 1953. so. Some good seats still ,World Series. grounder in the Game Five and coming in when Pittsburgh led The Boston Red. Sox did it remain. Contact the ticket "Eddie Murray had a good cut home run in the third inning of 2-0 and 2-1. against Pittsburgh in 1903, office at the ACC. with the bases loaded in the the final game. eighth that could have been out ''Our pitchers were super and of here,'' Weaver said after the their pitchers were a lutle bit Pirates scored a 4-1 victory in better. When you don't get the decisive seventh game hits, you can't score runs," said 
Irish dump St. Joseph 's, J.l-0
Wednesday night. Daued After scoring 17 runs in the ''They really did their job,''I I first two games at Pittsburgh right fielder Ken Singleton said 
I before. halftime. mates Steve Kramer. Jaime
' { last week and taking a com­of the Pittsburgh pitchers. by Gary Grassey Milligan later conceded, Jacobs, Mark Doyan, and Steve manding 3-1 lead in best-of­"We didn't get big hits when Sports W n'ter Berry.
~; "That kind of woke me up." 
~l 
seven Series, the Orioles man­we needed them and we stop­
The Notre Dame soccer team St Joseph's , however, would Hunter commented, ''They allaged only two runs and 13 hits ped hitting home runs as we d1d awoke from a ftrst half slumber not test Milligan or his second­realize that next year there will over the last three games. all year. 
half replacement Gerard

yesterday afternoon against St. be a limited number of places"Certainly I feel sad, no doubt "But there are other ways to 
I . " Joseph's College, scoring nine McCarthy again as Notre Dame on the team, so they have to
about it," Weaver said. "I feel wm games. 

took complete control, out­start showing something now.
I emply _becau~e the object of the . The Oriole~ advan~ed only goals to run away with an 11-0 shooting ~he Pumas 6 5-4. 
victory. Senior Bill Wetterer ''Steve Kramer played an
I ·. game Is to wm. mne runners mto scormg posi­
I ' paced the Fighting Irish attack During the intermission, Hun­outstanding game and so did
"I won't go home and hit tion in the last three losses. But

I ~ with three goals and rwo assists Mike Doyan, "he continued, "I
against the walls,'' he contin­they still had a chance to win for ter told his players to be more 

I ! ued, "but I won't necessarily the 39th time in the seventh while junior Bill Murphy added eager around the net. "When do think, though, that everyone / two goals and a pair of assists. you have an opportunity, go for played well. Bill Murphy was
relax, either. We had just inning or later this season after goal. "he urged. And go for super today moving the ball."

about every move we wanted to loading the bases on three The veteran soccer players like 

I ~ Rounding our the scoring prod­
make, but when the ball players walks-one of them intentional­to call these kind of outings goal they did. 

uction for Notre Dame were
don't come through, your in the eighth. "stats days" --those precious Wetterer found the net .1:24_ 

goals from co-captain Jim Sabi­moves don't look quite as Reliever Kent Tekulve re­few occasions when a squad can into the second session when tus, Steve Burgoon, and Joe
good.'' tired Murray on a liner to right, take an afternoon to pile up Puma goalie Mike Burnett gave Ciuni, on a penalty kick. 

President Jimmy Carter visit­which momentarily stirred the their individual statistics. How­up a rebound after a Mark ed the Baltimore clubhouse crowd of 53,733 when the ever Irish coach Rich Hunter . Luetkehans shot. One minute The victory upped the Irish after being the ftrst President Pirates' Dave Parker stumbled has some other ideas about later , Jim Sabitus took a pass won-lost record to 12-7-1, as since 1956 to attend a World . such complacency. from Wetterer's head and beat they approach October break. 
Series game. Burnett to make the score 4-0.


"I don't think of this as stats "I think it was a good day for"I've seen you win and I've .Weaver to quit day," Hunter said, "It's really 49 seconds later, Wetterer gar­us' 'summarized Hunter, "I
seen you lose, and I admire you -nered a hat trick as he headed

execution day. We had to play knew the first 45 minutes would 
both ways," Carter told BALTIMORE (AP) -Earl a good game in the first half. a centering feed from Mike Mai be sluggish--it takes us that
Weaver and his players. Weaver, manager ot the Balti­inside the righthand post. 
a good long to warm-up.
In an obvious reference to the more Orioles, says he will retire They were team--the These games 
score could have heen easily. The rout was on and Hunter are good, though, becausepossibility that the Orioles after the 1982 season. 
2-1. They were very ·happy to was able ~o substitute freely ·you've got to concentrate and,could be moved by new owner "Definitely," he said with 
be behind 2-0." giving .numerous freshmen re­like I said, they were a goodEdward Bennett Williams, Car­emphasis as he sat in the ­serves needed playing time. team. This team will be veryter said, "I'd like to see you Orioles dugout Tuesday talking After Murphy and Wetterer ''Experience wears a team good in the future."
stay awfully close to Balti­to reporters prior to the sixth had staked Notre Dame to its down,"the Irish mentor ana­
more.'' game of the World Series Friday at 4 p.m. , Michigan
2-0 lead with goals in the ftrst 
lyzed, ''It's a lot like us against

against the Pittsbur~h Pirates. State will challenge Notre
The Orioles were not moody ten minutes, the Irish were Indiana where you hold your

a&er the sudden turnabout and ''When I first signed with Dame on Canier Field. Kevin
blanked for the remainder of own for only part of the game.

perhaps losing pitcher Scott Baltimore, I targeted my retire­Lovejoy, Sami Kahale, Tom 
the half. St. Joseph's even had It's the only way they can learn,

McGregor expressed it best ment date as 1980. Now I ftnd Luetkehaps, and Oliver Frank­
though.''

when he said: ''I'm going to that was unrealistic. Gas has a chance to cut the lead in half lin will be rejoining the squad ride in the parade tomorrow, gone up from 40 cents to $1.09 when forward Ron Niebarding Freshmen Matt Stolwyk and after taking yesterday for stud­and I'm not going to hang my and cocoa has risen from 89 took off on a breakaway towards Mario Manta were able to notch ies and physical therapy. Next head one bit. I'm proud of what cents to $1.60. · J:~eonomy has Irish keeper John Milligan, but second-half goals for them­week, the Irish will hit the road we did. I'll settle for an J forced me to stay .. ) extra two his shot fefl harmlessly into selves with the aid of impress­for four games in New Jersey American League champion-years.'' Milligan's arms seven minutes. ive performances from class-and Pennsylvania. 







