
, , , SMCneedsendorsements -p,6 

VOL. XIII, NO. 98 ·/ an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, MARCH 7, 1979 

llllrdspeakerofSLF 
Gaddis addresses crowd 
by Dan Luetcher Senior StaffReporter 

"I feel like a vanishing breed which believes the writer should be read and not heard,'' novelist William Gaddis told a near capacity crowd in the Library Auditorium last night. 
The Sophomore Literary Fes­tival's thtrd guest artist enter­tained the crowd with a variety of jokes and quips, and deli­vered his ideas about the role of the writer and the drudgery of writing itself. He also dis­cussed his novels and offered some advice to potential writers attending the presentation. 
Gaddis, author of two mas­sive .novels, Recognitions and }R, opened the evening by commenting that speaking in front of an audience is a rather "virgin experience for me." He stated that his only previous experience with delivering speeches was an accertance speech for the Nationa Book 
award.  He  recalled  that  the  
acceptance  speech  did  not  
please the criucs.  

According to Gaddis there is a tendency today to place the person in the forefront rather than the work. ''The idea of the separation of the writer and his work is something I still cling to,'' Gaddis said. 
''When a book is written, it comes out and should stand on its own," Gaddis claimed. By letting his works stand alone an author attains anonymity. 
Anonymity however does provide Gaddis with some headaches. Golf club manufac­turers and furniture stores have contacted Gaddis informing him of outstanding bills. Gaddis had never been to these stores. The critics, unlike stores, have little trouble recog­nizing him. Gaddis is the type of writer who evokes contro­versy because of his writings. 
A Time magazine reviewer wrote that Gaddis' first book, Reco~nitions, "is one of those erupuons of personal vison that will be argued about without being argued away.'' Other critics call his writing "opaque" or "brilliant". 
''What one does in fiction is operate a confidence game," Gaddis explained. "Perhaps this is why one would not want to expose oneself for fear of being found out,'' he con­tinued. 
Gaddis then moved on to talking about the art of writing itself. ''Part of writing is drud­gery, sheer drudgery,'' Gaddis said. He added a novel must, "grow, it must insist upon being written.'' 
He stated that the rewards of writing may be overblown and if ''one is capable of doing 
[Continued on page 8) 

Committee nominates Coughlinfor SUDirector 
by Brian McFeeters 
The Student Union Steering Committee nominated sophomore Tim Coughlin for the position of SU Director last night. The Student Government Board of Commissioners will confirm or reject the nomination at a meeting tonight. 
Coughlin, now Assistant Social Commissioner, received at least the required four out of five Steering Committee votes after seven applicants wereinterviewedby the committee last night. The official tally of votes was not released, however, in keeping with the Steering Committee's guidelines. 
SU Director Bill Roche indicated that he and the other Steering Committee members were pleased with the decision. Other Committee members include Cultural Arts Commissioner Jerry Perez, Social Commissioner John Bonacci, Services Commissioner Gary Luchini, and Comp­troller Maureen Carney. 
"We feel confident that he (Coughlin)<·can do the job," Roche said. 
If he is approved by the Board, Coughlin, a Flanner resident, said he hopes to use SU to increase services to off-campus residents and co-sponsor more social events with Saint Mary's. He also emphasized that he would try to maintain SU's present role on campus. "I have definite ideas about who I would like for commissioners but I'd rather not make those names public until after the Board's decision,'' Coughlin explained. 
Coughlin was in charge of "Welcome Week" last semester and was involved in the planning of Homecoming, the Snow Sculpture contest, An Tostal and many of the other social events this year, according to Roche. 
The Board of Commissioners, which includes SU Director Bill Roche, SBP Andy McKenna, Judicial Coordinator Jane Rizzo, SBVP Mike Roohan, HPC Chairman Cbuck 
[Continued on page 8) 

by Michael Lewis News Editor 

In one of the closest elections in recent years, new senior class officers were chosen, and run-off candidates were selected yesterday for the sophomore and junior classes. 
The Nicholas Schneeman ticket defeated the Mark Carney ticket in the senior class eclecuon by forty votes, 495 to 
455. The 950 junior votes cast reported approximately 54 percent of next year's Senior class. Schneeman carried twelve residence halls and the off-campus vote, while Carney carried nine halls. 
"We're happier than hell;" Schneeman said. "We thcnwht that if the turnout was over 50 percent we would win." 
He said that his ticket ran on a more conservative platform than their actual intentions, but added taht the ticket ''was sincere about everything in the platform." "We're going to stress social events," he said, adding "We'll stick up for the students, using the senior class office when appropriate.'' 
In the junior class elections, the Tom Behney ticket and the Mark Kelley ticket emerg~d from a five-ucket field and wtll vie for office in a run-off election tomorrow. Behney carried 367 votes, or 35.9 percent while Kelley garnered 212 votes, or 20.7 percent. Of the other contenders, the Ed Callahan ticket carried 14.7 percent, Bob Mangino gar· nered 14.8 percent and Jim Reidman carried 13.9 percent, of the votes cast for junior class officers. 
The junior class election turn­out of 1,020 was the highest class voting total, and repre-­sented approximately 63 per­cent of next year's juniors. 
"I think we ran against some really good opponents," Behney commented. "I thought they all did an excellent job.. Of course. I'm really gratified that we dtd so well. I hope we can hang on · Thurs­day." 
Kelley said, "We have some work to do. I thought it was a re~l good turnout. I'm sur­p~tsed tha~ Behn!!y ha~, such a wtde margm of vtct<?ry. 
All three of the sophomore class tickets collected more than one-fourth of the v<?te. The Steve Bruemmer ttcket earned 404 votes, or 40 percent of the vot~, wit~ the C~ip Gerhardt ttcket nght behmd with 355 votes, good for 35 percent. Fourty-nine votes sc:perat~~ the ~o, and both wtllparttctpate tn the run-off election. 
The Rudy Fernandez ticket finished third in the balloting, with 212 votes, or 25 percent-­not enough to make the run-off. The sophomre class turnout <?f 1, 011 represented approxt­mately 63 percent of next year's sop~omores. . . 
Tu~ Dages, . the vtce-prest­denttal can.dtdate ?n .~he Bruemmer ttcket, satd we didn't know what to expect. I'm a little surprised that only about 1000 freshmen turned out to vote." He sai~ this was "a really good campatgn; the three ticketsoutalotofworkintoit." 
"We're optimistic right 
now," Gerhardt said. "We 
figured that if it came to a 
run-off we'd have a pretty good 
chance. Our job now is to 
campaign a little harder; we 
have a pretty good shot Thurs­
day." ' Mark Woodward, Ombuds­
man election coordinator said. 
there were no violatio~s of 
election rules by any of the 
candidates. 
''There were some problems 
with people tearing down 
posters " he said "but that 
happen~ every year' and wecan't 
do much about that, except 
notify the candidates." 
He did note that the ballot 
box in Grace hall opened ten 
minutes late, but that it stayed 
open for ten extra minutes to 
try to compensate. "By the 
time I called to alleviate the 
problem, the ballot box was 
opened," he said. 
Due to the small turnout by 
off-campus students for the 
sophomore and junior. class 
elections Woodward satd that 
the ope~ hours for the off-
campus ballot box may be 
reduced. 
"I haven't talked to the 
candidates about this yet,'' 
Woodward said, "but I'm going 
to suggest that we keep it open 
from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m." He 
noted that only twelve off-
campus students voted in the 
sophomore and junior class 
elections and only one off­
campus ~tudent voted between 
2 p.m. and 5 p.m. 
"If only twelve people voted, 
it seems silly to keep the ballot 
box open that long. I just don't 
want to waste anyone's time." 


News in brief 
NBC poll shows Americans favor return to draft 
NEW YORK (AP)--Concemed about how well the volunteer ~y is working, American narrowly favor bringing back the draft for the armed forces, an AssocJated Press NBC News poll shows. By a somewhat larifer margin, the public backs the idea of uruversal public servtce for an young Americans. Those Americans most vulnerable to a draft -those aged 18 to 24 -overwhelmingly oppose the idea of mandatory service in the armed forces. The poll, taken Feb. S-6, found 49 percent of the public supported reinstatement of the draft. Forty-three percent oppose such a move. 
NATO agent defects to East Germany with warplan 
BERliN (AP)--A woman employee of NATO headquarters in Brussels, Belgium, has defected to Communist East Germany with war plans of the Western alliance, the East German ne~s agency ADN said yesterday. Ursel Lorenzen, a confidential secretary on the executive staff, crossedinto East Germany Monday, the agency said, without specifying her job at NATO or personal details. "NATO war plans will be released at the appropriate time,'' along with opinions of NATO officials, ADN said, indicating the woman's state­ments would be the source of any disclosure. The woman was quoted as saying that increased "war preparations" by NATO were behind her decision to enter East Germany. 
Billy Carter : are his 
drinking days over? 
LONG BEACH, Clif. (AP) -Billy Carter, the president's brother and the namesake of Billy Beer, was admitted to Long Beach Naval Hospital yesterday for treatment ofalcohol abuse, hospital officials said. A brief written announcement by the hospital said only that Carter "has been admitted as a voluntary patient'' and is under the care of Capt. ] oseph Pursch, head of the alcohol abuse unit. 
Weather 

Partly cloudy and cooler tonight. Hishs in the upper 30s to low 40s. Fair and cool tonight. Lows m the low to mid 20s. Partly cloudy and mild tomorrow. 

Wednesday, March 7, 1979 
noon --TALK1 "the future of computing at nd " nelson smith, nd, FACULTY DINING HALL ' 
12:15 
pm ·-MASS, fr. robert griffin, LAFORTUNE BAllROOM 

12:15 
pm --DEMONSTRATION, '"computer assisted instrucuon," prof. bill davisson, nd, 2490'SHAG 


4 pm --LECTURE, ''employment policy in the next decade • • eli. charles killingswortli, michigan st., 122 HAYES HEALY 
5:15pm--FASTER'S MASS, WALSH CHAPEL 
6:30 
pm -· MEETING, sailing club, 204 O'Shag 

6:30 
& 11:30 pm --FILM, "the robe," HOWARD CHAPEL 


6:30pm--MEETING, aiesec general club meeting, SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE . 
7 pm --AUDITIONS, for "land of the dragon," WASHING 
TON HALL 

7 pm -·LECTURE, "the social psychology of prejudice," dr. albert ramirez, u. of colorado at boulder, LAW SCHOOL AUD. 
7:30pm--. ART RECEPTION, monica costello & karen tweedell, ISIS STUDENT-GALLERY 
7:30pm·-CONCERT, harpsichord-de. bruce gustafson, smc, MOREAU GALLERY 
8 pm --SOPHOMORE UTERARY FESTIVAL, donald hall, poet, WASHINGTON HALL 
8:15pm--RECITAL, manhatten piano trio, UB. AUD. 
9 pm --] AZZ AT 1HE NAZZ, big band jazz and the 10 o'clock jazz combo,BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE 

HyoQ haven't been down to the 


NAZZ lately... ...This is the week to checkit out! ! ! Wed.-3/7/79 JA-ZZ atthe NAZZ with Big Band Jazz &The 1 O'clock Combo Show starts at 9:00 
Thurs.-3/8/79 OPEN STAGE NIGHT Check out out Improved sound system and stage attangement shows Shows start at 9:00 
Fri.-3/9/79 Bill Stejskal & Tom Soma Show is at 9:30 
~ 

Steve Notaro Joel Lohmuller Kurt Wesseln
,3/10/79 ffiatk Bustamante Show starts at 9: 30 / 
Wednesday, March 7, 1979 -page 2 
In Vietnam 

Chinese troops declare victory 
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) • China claimed victory over Viet­nam yesterday, saying it has "exploded the myth of invinci­bility of this Asian Cuba.'' Vietnam disputed the Chinese claim, declared fightin_g was continuing, but said 1t was willing to negotiate once all Chinese troops have been with­drawn. 
Vietnam also challenged China's announcement Monday that it has beagun a withdrawal of troops from Vietnam. How­ever, Vietnam's major ally, the Soviet Union, apparently ac­cepted the Chinese declaration. 
Vietnam said peace talks may begin at the vice foreign ministerial level after all Chi­nese troops have left Vietnam. 
Director Phan Thi Minh of the Vietnamese foreign minis­tyr, said contrary to Peking's announcement of troop with­drawal, ''Chinese soldiers are still occupying a part of Viet­nam's territory. Peking now talks about negotiations and a withdrawal of troops in an 
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Margie 
Brassil 
Asst. Night Editor: Patsy 
Campbell 
Layout Staff: Ann Monag­
han, Rod Beard, plus a 
little help from Scoop 
Editorial  Layout:  Rose­ 
mary Mills  
Features  Layout:  Scoop  
Sullivan  

Sports Layout: Mr. Bill Typists: Tricia Meehan, Mary Campbell, Betsy Masana antfKatie Brehl Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Keith Melar­agno Copy Readers: Mike Onu­fra1 and john McGrath Ad Layout: David E. Wood and Flo 0 'Connell Photographer: Mark Muench 
The Observer [USPS 598 920] Is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 par year [$10 per semester] from The Observer. P.O. box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

attempt to lure public opinion. 
The Vietnamese foreign min­istry, in a broadcast by the 
VoiCe of Vietnam, said Peking was forced to make the with­drawal announcement because of Vietnam's military strength,_ 
the Soviet Union's support of Vietnam, and objections to the 
. war amon~ the Chinese people. Nobilizatton reportedly was ordered in Vietnam, and the Communist party newspaper Nhan Dan call yesterday to prepare to fight so that ' 'every localiry is a battlefield, every estabhshment a fortress and everybody a combatant." 
It was reported in Moscow that 
Vietnam has ordered all foreign embassies in Hanoi to prepare evacuation plans and that a massive citywide effort was under way to dig shelters. 
The Swedish Ambassador to Vietnam, Tom Tscheroings, reached by telephone from Moscow by a Swedish corre­spondent, said the evacuation related orders were handed down Monday by the Vietnam­ese Foreign Ministry. No reason for the orders was given, he said. 
There was speculation among Western observers in Bangkok that the Vietnamese mobiliz­ation might be a propaganda ploy to show Vietnam was not mtimidated. 

Meet thepeople you're going to be running into on the Florida beaches ... 
,.. 

Andy Sowder Bene·ci·· 
Wed. Night at Senior Bar 
50% of revenue will 
establish a scholarship fund 
memory of Andy Sowder 

The Observer Wednesday, March 7, 1979 -page 3 

Baseball season opens with the coming ofthe sprinG thaw. This dedicated athlete began his practice a btt early yesterday on the South Quail. (photo by Mark Muench] 
Compromises may leadto Egyptian-Israelipeace 
JERUSALEM (AP) · Israel 
agreed to three compromises 
proposed by President Caner 
that may break through the 
barriers preventing an Egyp­
tian-Israeli peace treary, Israeli 
sources said yesterday. 
But the sources cautioned that other problems remain unset­tled, and Egypt's response to the U.S. proposals will be pivotal to success. 
The Carter trip was announced Monday in the wake of the president's talks with Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Be­gin. The president will arrive in Cairo tomorrow and flies to Israel Saturday. 

In New York, Begin said he felt euphoric about progress for peace. "There is euphoria, not only in this country, but in Jerusalem and Cairo and throughout the world.'' 
In Cairo, President Anwar Sa­dar met with U.S. National Security Advisor Zbigniew 

Brzezinski to hear the details of Carter's proposals. Sadat's reaction was not immediately known. 
Sources with flrst-hand know­ledge of the proposals, which have not been revealed, said they involved two compromises on linking the treaty to the Palestinian problem and a third on softening language about whether the treaty would super­sede prior d_efens~ agreemen.ts. 
Without dtsclosmg the prectse language of all the U.S. pro­posals, the sources oudmed them as follows: 
Israel agrees to a 12-month non-binding tarset date for completing negotiations on self­rule for the 1.1 million Palestin· ians living on the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
There is however, no deadline for establishing autonomy, but Israel pledges to carry out the plan as quickly as possible. In a second point linking the treaty to the Palestinian prob­lem, Israel agrees to language specifying that the treary does not contradict the Camp David framework for a general Mid­east peace. ­

A clause remains unchanged in the draft sayin~ the treaty will be carried out 'without r~gard to action or inaction by any other party and independently of any instrument external to this treaty. " 
Again, this adds a measure of "linkage" so important to Sa­dat without setting deadlines or penalties for non-compliance, the sources said. The Egyptian leader has been condemned by other Arab states for his unila­teral peace move, so he has pressed for some connecton in the treaty solving the Palestin­ian problem. The third modification has to do do with language in the treaty's "priority clause," which has been modified to satisfy Egypt's objections that the treaty appears to invalidate its earlier defense pacts with Arab states. The proposed com• promise softens the wording so both sides can feel their inter­ests are protected. 
Still unresolved is Egypt's de­mand to delay the exchange of ambassadors until the Palestin­ian autonomy plan goes into effect. Israel wants the ex­change to occur nine months after the treaty is signed and the ftrst of the two-stage with­drawal from the Sinai Peninsula is completed. 
Reliable news reports say the United States also agreed to give Israel a $3.5 billion grant to cover the costs of moving their Sinai air bases back to Israel and to guarantee oil supplies. 
By April 1st 
Group to select 0-C commissioner 
by Mike Shields Student Activities, the Oft will also have the power to 
Senior StaffReporter Campus Coordinator, who appoint special committu~s. 
serves as chairman, and two off and is responsible for any 
A special committee headed campus students selected by facilities ror off campus 
by Student Government Off the. chairman, according to the students that are sponsored by_ 
Campus Coordinator ] ohn amendment. the council. He must live off 
Fitzpatrick will select the ftrst Fitzpatrick said the two campus for two consecutive 
Off Campus Commissioner to student members of the semesters after the semester of 
have any real administrative committee have not been his election, according to the 
authority before April 1. The selected. ammendment. 
new director, who is to be The amendment also states The new commissioner will 
selected before April 1, will that the Off Campus appoint a special committee by_ 
serve on the Student Govern­Commissioner will have the May 1 to serve as the ftrst Off 
ment Board of Commissioners • 'powers and duties equal to the Campus Council, Fitzpatrick 
as proposed in an amendment other voting members on the said. The council, which will be 
to the government constitution Board ... '' Fitzpatrick is not a composed of no less than flve 
which was supported by over 97 member of the board, and has and no more than ten under­
percent of students voting in no voting right. graduate students, will serve 
last week's referendum. During his one-year term, the until Oct. 1, by which time i~ 
The selection committee will commissioner will serve as will draft by-laws, perhaps 
be composed of the Student chairman of the Off Campus modeled on these of the HPC, 
Body president, The SBP-elect, Council, which will represent he added. 
the Off Campus Housing Office off campus student concerns Fitzpatrick says he issupervisor, the director of and help formulate policy. He accepting al?rlicauons for the position untt March 16. The selection process will be based on three things--knowledge of
Police acquit Dan Kelly 

the amendment, service plans, and goals for the year, he
inpedestrian accident 

..,rlded. "I want to see how well theyby janet Rigaux students walking along the (the applicants) know the limits 
road," Lyon commented. "We 
and responsibilities of theNo liability will be assigned wish they would use the side­amendment," he explained.
4

to the driver of the car who hit walks, but the same time we do 
Notre Dame sophomore Mark understand why the don't·· He said servtce plans could 
Kelley ear!y last Saturday. namely so they can hitchhike. include the shuttle bus or an off 
In the official police accident All we cna do is let them know it campus newspaper. Goals for 
the coming school year mightreport no tickets were issued. is dangerous." 
''No one is at fault in the Even though he is not liable deal with improving off campus accident involving Mark Kelley for the accident, Dan says that housingh security, and since it was a one car and one he will pay for Mark's hospital neighbor oods. 
''Since this is a new position,pedestrian accident with no bills. "There is no doubt about it's wide o~n," Fitzpatrickwitnesses, and both the driver's it, my insurance company will remarked. I'm interested inand the pedestrian's :storiesare cover all of Mark's expenses seeing what will come of this."
reasonable,'' according to Carol resulting from the accident.'' 
Revell of the St. ] oseph County 
Police Records Office. 
The driver of the car, Daniel 

SPRING'S AWAKENING 
Kelly--another ND student, 
~ND 
claims that he did not see Mark 
until he was almost on top of 
A CHILDHOOD TRAGEDY
SMC
him. He tried to avoid the 
collision but his car slid on the 
THEATRE BY Frank Wedekind 
ice, and he could not stop. The injured Kelley says that the reason he was walking on 
March 2,3,7,8,9,& 10 8:00pm
the street was that the sidewalk was not cleared of snow. Director of Maintenance, 
O'Laughlln Auditorium tickets $2.50 
Edwin Lyon, responded to the claim, commenting, "That it is true that the east sidewalk, the one that Mark was walking on, along Notre Dame Ave. was not cleared off. However, the west 
NOW THAT THE SNOW IS GONE 
sidewalk was completely clear 
and has been all winter long 
LE I'S GO FLYINGI 
except for a day and a half after 
one of the heavy snowfalls." 
Lyon explained that the east 

sidewalk has not been cleared 
due to the fact that a tractor 
cannot flt on that sidewalk 
because of the trees on either 
side. ''Last winter we almost 
lost a tractor operator trying to 
clear off the east sidewalk. We 
decided it wasn't worth 
people's lives to clear that 
sidewalk off, so we just clear 
the west sidewalk now,'' Lyon 
exr,lained. 
'We constantly worry about 

HPCdiscusses 
Hi' We'd like to meet you. 
And explain why being a ptlot or flight offtcer m the Navy 1s fun and 
an adventure.

NDconference 
If you'll take the time to take our a~1at1on test. I'll take the ttme to fly
The HPC met last night and 

you m our fully acrobatic NAVY T -34 Expenence a wtngover. loop. 
discussed SBP Andy 
barrel roll. spm, inverted fltght. and G-loads on your body. A MIND 
McKenna's outline for the Con· 
BOGGLING EXPERIENCE' 
ference for Notre Dame. According to the outline there 
Stop by the Placement Office and meet the Navy Offtcer Programs 
Officer and make a date to go flying. Testmg and tlymg are
will be meetings between those 
conducted on an individual and personal basis. Conference and all hall councils 
involved in the planning of the 
ON CAMPUS THE 8th and 9th OF MARCH.
before April 1. 
Members also took part in a 

wrap-up discussion of the 
Toronto Exchange program. 



Wednesday' Mar::::ch:J:""=7;-:-:~-~
The Observer '1979 -page 4 
Buy one..JPone free\ 

~I. '/'le'!O so '""" lhO deliciOUS taSte ol Yoplait will mat<• you
~ -a Yoptait enthusiast, we'll gi'Je yCYJ a tfee cartOn· "\ Yoplait is made lhO F1ench way, trorn an OfiQ•nal F1ench
recipe. smooth and c!eam'l· wl\ll tots ot ,.attrult tnfOU9hflUI· -Yoptait is uniQue-unlike aJ1'I yogurt yCYJ have """' 
t!ied bOIOfO. So haVO a 1100 carton ot Yoplad on us and expefience the Yoplatt difle!ence tof you!S•". In nine 
real fruit flavors. and plain. 

. Grocer: p-:-. ~~~~?~Jo r redemptla/~ur retair~~i~~ in
11 1~t~! spOCI!i~': ~~nted thr~~~~n~hw1ll not be th mpt to redee authollzed b lid parties f an as prOVId m thiS cou V us An
~~~~d (pdvotces ;,~v~%9rem sfa~/ c~therwts~ 
co ays, of purcha ns(ltute
9

maucfeons presente~u/"Cien'-'t~~kwlthm the 
V . available upo or redemptlo to cover 
o1d wr ·r n request n must be 
regulated e prohib•te

value 1/100Gc~C:,d only i~· ~censed or
t. Yopla 1 u·~-A. · Inc.
t Cash
.A.. 



The Observer IWednesday, February 7, 1979 -page 5 
Gangs murder 800 Moslems in riots 

N'D]AMENA, Chad (AP) . Rioting gangs murdered more than 800 Moslems over the weekend in one of Africa's bloodiest tribal massacres in recent years, officials of this north-central African nation re­portc:-d. 
The killings were in and a!ound Chad's third-largest ctty, Moundou, some 300 miles s~u~h of the capital, N DJamena. Moundou is m the heart of Chad's densely-popu­lated southern region and most of its 4~,000 inhabitants are Christian or Animist blacks speaking French and local dia­lects. Ana mists believe every object has a soul. 
The traders, storekeepers and moneylenders of Moundou nearly all belong to the town's 1,000-strong Arabic-speakin~ Moslem population was practi­cally wiped out and the few survivors fled toward the capital. 
French authorities confirmed the killings and said some 250 French and other Europenas, virtually the entire white popu­lation of Moundou, were evac­uated to N'Djamena Monday in French army convoys. The French sources said the violence was directed exlusively a~ainst the local Moslem mtnority, and no white expatri­ates were molested. 
Diplomatic sources and refu­gees from Moundou said vio-
Gustafson toperform atSMC 
Bruce Gustafson will present a harpsichord recital in Moreau Gallery at Saint Mary's College tonight at 7:30p.m. 
The performance, which is sponsored by the Alliance Francaise of Indiana University in South Bend, will feature French harpsichord music of the Bourbon period. 
The public ts invited to attend the performance. 
Senior 
w 
j I ::r 

Hall Total 
"AAumni 7 28 Badin 20 
9 

B·P 16 1l 
Carroll ·0· .().. .o. 
Dillon ~~ 54 8~ 
Farley 14 4 18 
Fisher 9 14 u 
Flanner )8 2% 80 
Grace 17 ~l 79 
Holy Cross 13 11 24 
Ho'tlard 8 14 .u 
Keenan 34 
3' ~9 

Lewis 27 ~2 59 b:on~ 39 38 11 
otr18sey 34 24 )8 P~rn 24 l4 38 
St. 's 10 16 26 .· Sorio 24 7 31 Stanford u 21 36 Walsh 16 22 38 Zahm 16 23 59 0-C 11 16 27 
Cavanaugh 12 18 30
..,, 
495 950 

..... 
47% )3% 

lent deaths in recent weeks of about 100 black southerners and a rumor that Moslem were plotting to turn Chad into a militant Islamic republic, sparked the weekend violence. 
The sources said ·gangs of black youths surged through Moundou and neighboring set­tlements in a three-day ramp­age, murdering any Moslems they could find, looting the victims' property and destroy­ing their mud-brick homes. 
The government of no of­ficial announcement or com­ment on the Moundou massacre because it has been paralyzed for weeks by an armed con­frontation between Chad's Christian President, Felix Mal­'loum, ahd the Moslem Prime Minister, Hissen Habre. 
More than 2,000 French troops are maintaining an uneasy cease-fue between the hostile forces entrenched in N'Djamena. 
Malloum, Habre and leaders of various breakaway rebel factions were to meet in Kano, in neighboring Nigeria, today in an attemp~ to . settle their dis­putes. Ntgenan troops were expected to arrive in N'Djamena later in the week to help police the cease-fue. 
Troops and police loyal to Malloum stood by without intervening, the sources re­ported. Refugees said the troops, nearly all southereners, sympathized with the rioters but did not participate in the killing. 
Chad officials said the army could not stop the killings because it was hopeles&ly out­numbered by the noters. Most of Malloum's army is deployed in and around N'Djamena, facing Habre's Moslem forces. 
Chad's 4.5 million inhabi­tants are divided almost equally between the Moslem nonh and the Christian or Animist South. The landlocked former French colony has long been lllagued by the ancient antagorusm be­tween the two communities, and has never been fully at peace since French rule ended to 1960. 
by CarolBuzzard 

Senior Bar will hold a special benefit Wednesday night in memory of Andy Sowder. Sowder was the senior from Cavanaugh Hall who died last Thur~day of meningirus. 
Fifty percent of the night's · receipts at the bar will be · donated to a scholarship in 
Sowder's name. 
Mike Schlageter, general man­ager ofSenior Bar, originated the benefit idea. Chris Coraggio, a Senior Bar employee, satd that Schlageter feels this type of benefit ''exemplifies what Notre Dame stands for, and he feels very fortunate to be in a position to do this." 
''The planned night would be very helpful for the family and it shows the love and care of the senior class for a marvelous guy," ] ames Roemer, dean of students, commented. 
Roemer said the scholarship was a ''marvelous idea to honor our beloved Andy." He has given his official approval for the benefit, and indicated that he was glad that the seniors had thought of the idea. 
According to Coraggio, Schlageter is happy to help out after the recent tragedy. ' As a 
Money will be deducted from both the door and the bar returns. 
"It (the benfit) will put the bar in the red," Coraggio remarked. 
It will be distributed after Schlageter contacts Sowder's parents, now in Texas. The funds will be invested according to the family's wishes. 
member of the seruor class I ai' . happy to be in the position to do something," he sai<l. 
The money donated is not from the bar's profits but from all the money taken in, Coraggio pointed out. He also commented that the fmal distribution of the gift will be made by Schlageter only after discussmg it with Sowder's parents or their repre­sentatives. 
·Buy Classifieds from 
The Observer 
Wont to Impress someone? 
Win a dinner for 2 at the 
Boor's Head 
Holy Cross aponso11: 
St. Jude's Hospital RoHie 
other prizes: beer mlttotS, signs 
DRINK& DROWN 
Party!! 


-----!o~~~----~ 50~ a 
Drown down the brews all day today 
------2 pm until 


Editorials 
SMC Elections need endorsements 
Gail Darragh, Saint Mary's Student Government Presi­dent, announced las(night that she will present a ~roposal rejecting endorsements for student ~overnment pos1tions to the Student Assembly. The maJority of the Board of Governance, the organization to whom Darragh addressed this statement, responded positively. The Observer believes the reasoning behind this proposal is not sound and the proposal should rejected by both the Board of Governance and other members of the Student Assembly. 
One argument for the proposal states-that Saint Mary's is too small a community to warrant endorsements by individual and separate grou_Ps. However, any organization has the right to voice its opiruon. Anytime a decision is to be made, in anyj son ofgroup, the opiruons of respected r,eople are sought. Althougli Saint Mary's consists of "only' 1800 students, these students have the right to seek opinions in a public and organized manner. It is far better to reveal these opinons openly, according to cenain criteria • the election guidelines · than to force people to privately seek opinions. 
Another reason says it would be unfair for a re~resentative to speak in the name of a body, because the indiVidual's view may not reflect the views of that body. This statement first ignores the reason for representation. Hall, class, and club representatives (officers) are selected for precisely this purpose. Their job is to seek out the V1ews of their constituency and direct it to the proper channel. To state the representanves may not do this is to doubt the integrity of those representatives. 
Secondly, a criteria of the endorsement policy could state that the representatives could endorse candidates only as r~~resentatives and not as a body. For example, hall officers could endorse a candidate, but could not state the hall endorses that candidate. Both these actions would circumvent the problem of misrepresentation 
The absence of logical argument continues in reasons which display lack of confidence in both the Saint Mary's students and the candidates for office. An argut!lent was put fonh that disuni~ in student government could result from publicaton of endorsements and that the ability of students to keep an open and mature mind about endorsements was questionable. 
If disunity in student government results from the publicaton of endorsements, the officers are obviously mcapable of holding their position. Any officer who would entenain the thought of holding a grudge against a group that did not endorse her lacks the emotional stability needed to re.P,resent and lead a body of 1800 students. If such candidates are elected, the effectiveness of student government should be examined. 
While it is true that some students might mistake endorsements for directions it is unlikely that most would do so. College students are capable of making many difficult decisions. It is unlikely that they would blindly follow the endorsement of a peer group without thinking through the matter. 
Finally, the proposal argues against endorsements for the protection of the candidates. 
This reason does not require a rebuttal, for it never puts fonh an argument. Student government election seeks the perso~ best to represent and lead the student body. In declarmg them.selves candidates for election, .these people enter the public forum. They subject themselves to the criticism and evaluation of others. 
The opinions put fonh in endorsements merely state a group's evaluation of the candidates. Any candidate who needs protection from these opinions does not have the self-confidence necessary to hold office. 
The proposal prohibiting endorsements in the Saint Mary's elections is·. unfounded. The problems it forsees can be overcome by election criteria which strongly defmes endorsements as the opinion of a limited group. But it is doubtful that these problems will even exist. 
-~ ~--------------­
Wednesday, March 7_, 1~79 -page 6 
"7HE NATIONAL /?.IFf£ A950­CJ/fTJON 7HEI<EFORE OPPOSES 
ANYANO ALL LE6/51.1JllVE 
. 
ATTEMP15 7D [{)IJ'fRIJL 0/JR. 
0 

aJNST77V77CWAL R.lfiHT 70 


Daley Cried in Heaven 
Ifit rained in Chicago last week, it might have been Mayor Daley crying up in heaven. Crying because the fmallike of his legacy, the late great Chicago Political Machine, had been broken. The Chicago Machine is not 9uite fmished yet, but it is sputtering through 1ts last few dying gasps. When]ane Byrne announced her candidacy for mayor of Chicago sometime ago, most d.i,missed this action as another of her 'rabble-rousing' antics, designed to garner attention. Byrne had a somewhat underserved reputation as a troublemaker. This was due largely to her battles with Chicago businessmen during her term as Chicago's Consumer Sales Commissioner, and her accusation that Mayor Michael Bilandic had 'greased' a deal between striking cab drivers and the cab companies. Very, very few political analysts took her camJ;>aign seriously, and it was generallycons1dered that she would be destroyed in the primary by Bilandic. 
This assessment .Proved to be basically true for most of the campatgn. Although Byrne attacked the machine and many of its faults, she found it quite difficult to get any media covera(i.e or consideration. This pattern continued until this Winter. Then the snow came. 
Chicago was decimated by two major snow­storms this winter. On both occasions (both in ] anuary), the city was paralyzed and virtually closed for several days. When the city be~an operating again, many Chica~oans were left out in the cold' by the city administration's bungling of snow removal operations. Many streets were never plowed. In an effon to get public transportation running on schedule, many stops were omitted, and many riders were left stranded at the stop as the bus or train sped by. Then came the controversy over the awarding of city contracts to what appeared to be favored bidders, es_Pecially former deputy Mayor Kenneth Sam. Ironically, Sain had a snow removal contract, and this only added to the voters' ire. 
These events, however, probably could have been 'weathered' by Bilanruc had he not dealt with the dissatisfacnon of the populace in such a high-handed manner. The voters in Chicago probably tired of watching TV news programs on which Bilandic and other officials praised themselves and their efforts in removing the 

snow and gettin~ the city operating, while their 
streets were buned in 4 feet of snow. Bilandic 
also showed his arrogance when he answered his 
critics by comparing himself to]esus Christ and 
other figures in history who were ''martyred'' by 
unfair criticism. Chicagoans fmally tired of ~0 
years of insensitive beauracracy in government, 
and decided to take action. 
These events have significance in that last week's primary was the most imponant happening in Chicago in the last ~0 years. It signals many changes. The administration is now accountable for its behaviors and actions. The populace will no longer sit still and watch while the power elite manipulates the city for political and personal gain. 
Last week's primary has national significance also. Democrats can no longer count on Chicago to counter the rest of largely Republican Illinois in state and national elections. There is also a possibility now for Chicago itself to return to a real two-party system. Perhaps there 
will be a true election Tuesday April 3rd, instead of the usual anticlimactic confirmation of the Democratic nominee as mayor. 
] ane Byrne is to be saluted for her efforts. In Chicago, more than anywhere else in this country, the old cliche "You can't fight city hall" held true. Byrne has destroyed that myth, at least as far as Chicago is concerned. Whether she wins the general election or not, she has made her mark on Chica~o history. It is quite ironic, and smacks of poet1c justice, that the last political machine, and perhaps the most arrogant, sexist, and racist of them all, should be brought down by a woman. 
In giving out salutations, however, the most important group of all cannot be forgotten. The people of Chicago have endured the problems brought on by machine politics for too many years. The neighborhoods are no longer just rubber-stamp bodies for fast-talking politicians. The administration must heed the will of the people, and consider them in all decisions. The government of Chicago finally consists of all 3 million residents, instead of 40-odd favored aldermen, and a dictatorial mayor. The people are to be saluted for fmally putting their collective foot down and saying "Enough is enough''. The people have taken their city back. 
Anthony Walton 

of either institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD
_The Observer_ reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray 0 'Brien Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calculi Features Editor . . . . . . . . . Chns Stewart Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Langhenry Photo Editor .......... ,Doug Chnstian The Obseroer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Ros~ Mills per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil ~IJ..? Production Manager .... ~ . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Samt Mary's Editor . . . . . . FJ/n But/tJ1 Business Manager ........ john Tucker Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. MUle Lewis 
-
Features 
Wednesday, March 7, 1979 -page 7 
In the Main Gallery 
Notre Dame 's Modern Art 
Gregory Solman 
A tasty collection of modern art from ''These pieces have energy and 
Notre Dame's permanent collection is spontanaiety, but also show control,'' 
now on display in the Main Gallery. said Spiro. 
Yes, that's right ... modern art--but Museum Art Gallery Director Dean 
don't let that frighten you. Modern an Porter has been anxiously awaiting the 
is not reserved solely for the pleasure new addition to the Art Gallery,
of the interpretive conoscente of the precisely because it will allow him 
arts, contrary to popular conjecture more room to display new works like 
and to the pejorative sense in which Pollock's. 
the term has been used. "It was really kin~ of exciting,
''There are a lot of myths about setting up this display, he remarked. 
modern an,'' stressed Steve Spiro, ''This is the first time that we had to 
museum curator, still recovering from be really selective. Our modern an 
the inevitable rush that accompanies collection is really starting to grow." 
getting the display together. "But One area where there 1s a definite 
modern artists aren't trying to fool need is in the area of German 
anr,body. They're not charlatans." expressionism and Cubism, where the 
'You can't set ur, a barrier when An Gallery has various sketche! , 
viewing modern an, ' watercolors, and sculptures, but n< t 
A case in point: the enigmatic ink paintings. The current display has on paper by Paul Klee, "Student and allowed Spiro and Porter to evaluate Teacher" shown on the page. A different genres of an and record their combination of abstractionism and respective strengths and weaknesses surrealism, Klee has effectively before moving into the new building created almost a fingerpainting effect. There is also an Alexander Calder In the words of Spire, "he (Klee) sculpture on display that is certainly creates little worlds of his own.' worth mention. Calder, who invented 
And, yet, it is precisely this kind of "the mobile" of pop culture, is piece, despite it's sophistication, that probably better known for his grander­1s liable to be branded a hoax. scaled versions of pieces like ''Crag 
Certainly one of the •• drawing with Red Heart." cards'' of the show, and justifiably one ''The main form almost implies a that cannot be labeled trumpery, is a mountainous landscape,'' remarked rather ambitious piece by Marc Spiro. "It is very devotd of reality, but Chagall entitled "Le Grand Circue." the forms relate to the natural world." 
This very typically Cha,all piece As a closing note, one of the was done in the late 1950 s, and is sculpture's on display is Ernst hence not as prized as his earlier Barlach's powerful German expres­work s. Yet, everything that one sionist piece "Der Schwebende Gott." would want to know about Chagall can It is typical of the genre, emotional, be found here. intense and involving. Most impor­
"There's just a tremendous loose­tan~ly, however, is that it is worth ness about it," remarked Spiro. seemg. ''Everything just seems to float on the surface of the canvas." 
Indeed, the piece is wonderfully lofty and poetic interpretation of the circus. Chagall stuck to a very naive, simplistic style, and carried off the task with his usual sophistication. He attained the flowing rhythm through a lush use of bright, showy, primary colors, and gave the painting an extra dimension through his generous use of impasto. 
One of the most interesting, and certainly the tour de force of the pieces on display, is Picasso's "Le M1roir", which is a look at that artist's prime period of the early 1930's. Picasso was m the midstof retreatin~ from abstrac­tionism and his Cubist experimen­tation, and went far beyond both ~enres in his own lively interyreta­uons. The "master of styles' pro­duced about twenty paintings during this period, and all of them are, as is "Le Miroir," vitally important. 
Like the Chagall, this Picasso is on extended loan to the university from the Gustav Stern Foundation. It is, quite simply, a lady stretched before a mirror--but then, one can never quite so succinctly describe a Picasso. 
It features Ion~, fluid, curving brushstrokes and v1vid colors (the red in the mirror is most appealing.) Picasso refracts his subject to empha­size and reinterpret the inherent 
A Different Writer
roundness in the human form. "Picasso distorts the hand so that it Tee Hentges almost becomes a fin," noted Spiro. 
''He radically reinterprets nature and Unlike most well-known script writers, Larry McMurtry humanness and true feeling that make them so appealing. It makes it fit h1s own conception. In this doesn't live in Hollywood and doesn't frequent Bun is difficult not to smile and cry along with the figures that piece, Picasso is ve~ much at ease Reynold's poolside parties. He isn't writing to attract the seem so real. with his abstraction.' big-name stars. Instead, his essays and novels capture the ''Pretty sundown,'' he said. The sky was awful bright. 
The only thing that can definitively drama of the rugged ranges of Texas. His characters The whole big west side of it was orange and red, over be said of the two unnamed Jackson struggle against the land, with all of its hardships, and behind Thalia. "Lookee how the sky's lit up. Looks like Pollock etchin~s on display is that against the breakdown of traditions once so dear to them. somebody set the world on fire." they are cenamly new to the collec­They wear the dust and sweat of a long day's work, not the I shoved my diggers in the back of the pickup, and tion, having been acquired only two rhinestone jackets of the ftlm world. fastened up the endgate. "It wasn't one of us," 1 said. weeks before the display's February Although he has written many moving stories, such as Leaving Cheyenne 17 opening. Somebody's Darling, Moving On, Terms ofEndearment, All Larry McMurtry was born in Wichita Falls, Texas in 1936. 
"Pollock is probably the most My Friends are Going to be Strangers, McMurtry is best He received a B.A. from North Texas State College, and an important American artist since World known for Horseman, Pass By (made into the motion picture M.A. from Rice University. His passion for his native state War II," noted Spiro. "He brought HUD), Leavi'ng Cheyenne, (also ftlmed), and espedallr for earned him the Wallace Stegner Fellowship and the Jesse H. American art to international The Last Picture Show, for which he wrote both the nove and Jones Award of the Texas Institute of Letters in 1962. He esteem.'' the screenplay. All involve the back-country dialogue and currently works as a lecturer in English. 
The pieces are linear and intense. common, day-to-day scenes which form the backbone of McMurtry will present a reading this Tiu,usday at 8:00 They 101ply a mixture of several McMurtry's writing. Events do not fly by, but develop p.m. in the Libra!)' Auditorium. A showing of The Last different genres. slowly. The plots aren't complicated, but evolve with a Pi&ttJre Show will follow at 10:00 p.m. 



J 
~ 


-The Observer 
... Gaddis 
[Continued from page I) 

something other than writins. they should do it." Writing ts the last free-enterprise in exis­tence. ''There are no pension plans, no medical plans, no dental plans, and no fringe benefits," Gaddis emphasized. One critic said of Gaddis that 
any person who writes a 956­page novel, must have a mon­strous ego. Although Gaddis doesn't completely agree, he 
• • .Director 
DelGrande, Treasurer Beau! Mason, and Comptroller Maureen Carney, meets tonight to discuss the nomination of Coughlin. 
If Coughlin is apj>roved by the board he takes office on April 1. If the nomination is rejected, the steering Committee will submit another nomination and the board must then choose between the two candidtate§.. 
The Steering Committee had been unable to reach a decision during its meeting last week. 
Cheerleaders to meet 

Cheerleader Information Night will be held tonight in the LaFortune Little Theater. Try­outs will be held the week of April 1. 
does feel that there is a 
tendency of writers to "inflict 
their identities upon the 
readers.'' 

Gaddis next tried to answer 
the question of who the; writer 
writes for. Accord10g to 
Gaddis, one doesn't write for reviewers because they don't sell or hinder the sale of books. One doesn't write for the academians because they tend to read interpretations into novels that really don't exist.$ 
"When one writes, there has to be some problem which one wants to solve--some central obsession.'' He answered the question of who to write for by paraphrasing fellow writer Sam Butler: ''I write to s;ty some­thing and to have' something to read in my old age." 
Gaddis provided a fresh out­look to the world of writing but by way of eluding he moved into a more abstract discussion. 
He advised students to concen­
trate on what they really want 
to do. 

''It often seems that every­thing ends in heartbreak, dis­appointment or failure,'' Gaddis stated. ''This should not disillusion you, but what is really demoralizing is failing at something you originally didn't think was worth doing at all. '' 
The crowd appreciated the 
author's frankness and honesty 
giving him an enthusiastic 
round of applause. This after­
noon at 1 ; 15 pm poet David 
Hall will conduct a workshop in 
the Library loun~e. He will also 
~ive a presentation at 8:00 pm 
10 Washington Hall. 

Wednesday, March 7, 1979 -page 8 

Repairmen began trimming trees damaged by winter storms and winds yesterday. Several branches on trees in the South and North quads had begun to splinter and crack. [photo by Mark Meunch.] 
Polls reflect Carter'sforeign woes 
An AP News Analysis yet. questioned gave Carter good or 
BYBARRYSCHWIED Carter's track record shows a excellent marks. That com­
Associated Press Writer gambler's streak. pared to 36 percent in Decem­
He brought Begin and Sadat ber and was close to the lowest 
to Camp David List September · point ever reached by the 
WASHINGTON (AP) · Presi­starting practically from President , 26 percent last dent Carter, sinking in the polls scratch. By all accounts, the August. and with a SALT treaty looking treaty framework did not take Another Associated Press­less likely every day, is badly in shape until the final hours of NBC pool in early Feb!"WU)' need of a foreign policy that summit meeting. At least showed public support for a success. twice, the summit was on the new SALT agreement with the 
This, and his fervent desire verge of a breakdown. Soviet Union the highest it has to be the peacemaker between But the stakes are even been in three years. Eighty-one the Arabs and Israel, are driv­bigger this time. percent of those interviewed ing him to the Middle East this Once he is in the Middle said they favored a new SALT week en lthat appears to be an East, the President 'is sort of a accord. That was six points enormously risky trip. captive to Begin and Sadat, two higher than a December poll 
It is not so risky, however, if shrewd operators. and 11 points higher than the the basis for an Egyptian-Israeli The closer he gets to nailing November level. settlement has already been down a treaty, the greater the And SALT is in trouble. Just struck with Israeli Prime Minis­opportunity for them to spring last wekend, three senators ter Menachem Begin here and last-minute changes. who would have seemed de­Egyptian President Anwar On the verge of success, he pendable supporters notified Sadat over the telephone, and is isn't likely to fly home -and Carter that the strate~ic arms being kept under wraps. they know it. limitation treaty near10g com­
There is a long roster of pletion with the Russians did 
That would seem a remote American di(>lomats who have not add up to much arms possibility. At best, the new been caught 10 this web, begin­control. and undisclosed U.S. proposals ning with then Secretary of The stand taken by Sens. probably stack up to a real State William P. Rogers, a George McGovern, D-S.D., breakthrough, but do not spell decade a~o, and most notably, Mark Hatfield, R-Ore., and out an Egyptian-Israeli treaty Henry Ktssinger, whose name William Proxmire, D-Wis., 
became synonymous with could impel the American nego­
shuttle diplomacy when he was tiators to push for additional 
Secretary of State. controls on both sides. 
Israel and Syria once got But to do that would be to 
Kissinger shuttling between Je­risk further opposition form 
rusalem and Damascus for 33 conservatives, who already are 
days. He had planned to spend suspicious of the accord. 
about a week at it. Clearly, Carter has his hands 
For an Am~rican President \to full. He needs two-thirds of the 
undertake a mediating misison Senate for ratification ofa SALT 
to the Middle East, and have as accord. At the moment, the 
his goal the signing of a peace numbers just are not there. 
treaty between two htstoric Peace in the Middle East 
adversaries, is a colossal diplo­could reverse his failing for­
matic gamble. tunes, whatever else happens 
But he almost has to gamble. with SALT. 
An Associated Press-NBC But if he fails, he may have 
news poll in!early February run out of op.Portunities for in­
found only 28 percent of those ternational tnumphs. 
Judicial Council elects Jim 0 'Hare 
Jim O'Hare was elected to committee, and has been in­
the postiion of Judicial Coor­volved in the Neighborhood 
dinator for 1979-1980 by the Study Help program. 
Judicial Council last night. O'Hare noted the impressive 
O'Hare defeated four other accomP,lishments of thts year's 
candidates for the post and will counctl, particularly in its 
take office April 1. efforts to educate the student 
O'Hare, presently Grace Hall body concerning the judicial 
president, is a Junior from process and, on the hall level, 
Danvers, Mass. He has served to establish and strengthen the 
on the HPC Standard Review individual judicial'boards. 
• • I 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
The Observer 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Z/Z7/79

Main Bulldlnc 
JO. IIITIIVIllll AU OP£11 TO S!IIIOlS AIID GRADUATE STUDENTS IN ntE HAY AIID AUGUST Cl.AIIII., .• , .. , .Aitf WHO INTEIID TO HAY!! INTERVIEWS IIJST HAVE A a.ti'LET!D PIOnL! (UGIITIATIOII) POlll 011 nLE AT ntl PUCI!MEIIT IUUAU .........R!GISTRATlON, lNTER­YIDI llCII·UP IIIEITS AND !KPLOYEI LlTERATUR! ARE IN ROOM ZU, ADIIlNlSTV.TlON ILDC. .........PUCDIIIIT IUUAU lS OP£11 8:00A.M. TO ~:00 P.M., MONDAY ntRU PRlDAY ..... OOIIIUlT nt! PLACIDC!IIT IWIIJAL POR ADDITIONAL lNPOIUIATlOII R!GAIUllNG INTERVIEW AIID ~ l!lVlCU AND PIOCIDUIES. 
YOU ICJST SIGII POl YOUI INTERVIEWS PERSONALLY. 

1111 IIQI-UP P!llOD 1S F1.C14 8:00A.M. TO S100 P.M., MONDAY 11tRU THURSDAY, IIGliCIIIIIG HAlC1I ~. 
urnavuws POl 1110: or MARCH 12. 

MD ~I&IIIICUI­
!lor 12 
X X X X

~ 
X X 
X I 
l l 

~ 
l!!!...ll 
Tlooo. 
l 
l 
• 
I I 
• 

!!!Ll1 
Twa. I X 
X 
X 
X X 
X 
X 

~~ X 
Kl.r 14 
X

~ 
X 
X X X 
X X 
X X 

!lor. ~~ 
X X

~ 
• 
X X 
X 
X 

Buraer Chef hat... B in all dhcipltnaa. 
Metropolitan Lih Inauranca Co. Croup Divhion ! in Lib. Aru, lua. Ad. 
awo..o Savinaa hnk full Service S.nk. Pace-Setter, Financial COrp. B in Lib. Art•· and lua. Ad. for Hanaaement Trainee. Location: Ovo..o, HI. Penn. Ru. vt.. required. 
Storaae Techno!~ IKD in all Enar dhcipUnaa, Cotlp Set. 
Cone inenhl llltnoh National Bank 
MIA. 
AMrada He.. Corp 

Patroh..a Producta. B in Accountancy. For: Sutf Accountant. Location: Woodbridae, Nt!W Jeraey. Pen~. ku. Vlu required. 
lnurnational Paper Ce~~tpanr I in Pin, Acct. I ln N! and Chi. 
Hercul•• he I ln lCct, 0\1 and Ch-. 
National Lth ' Accident ln1urance Co I in Lib. Art• .net lu•, Ad. 
StaU Kutual of America ln1unnce and lnveatraent•. 8 in AL, &A and EC. For: la•unnce Broker Trainee. Chicaaoland. Milwaukee and lndianapoli1. Cttiunahip required. 
Swift I. Coe~pany I All BBA for Sale• Rep11. MBA wlth Hkt bkard or conctrn (or, A•at. Product Hanagt.•r, 
ti.S. htl'nt & Tradot~ark Office 8M in ChE, EE 0 HE, PhyHlCH, Chcm. 
Wallace Buaineaa forms a 1n Mkt. 
F. W. Woolworth Company All 88A. 
Wednesday, March 7, 1979 -page 9 
... Swim team 
[Continued from page 12) event, the 200-yard butterflr.. Chris Leonard (12th) the Irish. But the next day they things were gomg to be dif. 100-yard freestyle -) ohn Ko­took to the water with spirit and ferent. Notre Dame featured! mora (11th) enthusiasm. There were other star Don Casey, the freshman! 200-yard backstro~e -Pat things to shoot for besides first . who, along with Hilger, had LaPlatney (4th) (varsity record) place--individual records, team sparkeld for the Irish all year 200-ya.rd butteifly · Don Casey records and, most of all, pride. long. (1st) (variety record) 
Hilger was heard from again Casey sprung off the starting on Sunday. He broke his own block and ''gave it everything The two female members of varsity record in the grueling he had." 1:57.96 seconds later, the Irish swim team Sfe in 1,650-yard freestyle. The fab­he touched home ahead of the Reno, Nev. to compete m the ulous freshman broke his pre­rest. Not only had Casey 197.9 S~all Colle~e. Women's vious record of 17:17.1 by .2 pulled out the only win for the Swimming and DlVlng Cham­seconds. Irish but he had broken the pionships. Diver Betsy Shadley 
Two event later, LaPlatney scho~l record for an unbeliev-and distance freestylist Jaenine returned to the limelight. This able fourth time. He swam the Blatt will begin competition time, he broke his own varsity distance almost 3.5 seconds today and will conclude on record in the 200-yard back­faster than his previous mark of Sunday. 
stroke. He became the first 2:01.4. Irish swimmer to ever break the No, it wasn't a miraculous two-minute barrier in that come-from-behind victory. It event. The sophomore's record wasn't even close. But the Irish setting time of 1:59.82 earned swimmers gave 110% right him fourth place in the event. down to the very end. 
The Irish had not yet taken a Notre Dame Scorers: single first place finish from the powerful Kentuckians, and 500-yard freestyle • Michael there was only one event Hilger (12th) (varsity record) 
remaining. But in this fmal 200-yard Individaul Medley -
Rody McLaughlin (9th), John Komora (lOth) 
• • .Fencers 
[Continued from page 12] 
. . 
Whde the Insh '!'omen fen­cers do no~ partake m the same 
X 

Kanufacturere National lank RIA and MSA. 
I 

Allh-Chalura Corp 
1 

8 in ChE and MEIO. Manufacturer of Speciality Equip­ment. For: Manufacturing Development Program, and Proca1e Development Program. Nationwide. Pen. Re1. Vhla required. 
Clairol All BIA. 
£BASCO Servicee lnc 8H in CE, EE, ~'!. .. 

Coneral Tire & Rubber Company 8 in Acct. BH in ME, MEIO. BH in Chem. (Note changes Iince publication of Spring Placement Manual.) 
lnsenoll-Rand Corp 8 1n Acct and Fin. MBA with Acct or Fin bkgrd or conctrn. Manufacturer of Industrial Machinery. For: Entry level poaitiona -Corporate Internal Staff. Locationa: Hartford, CI'; S1n Francisco, CA; Parsippany, NJ i The Hague, Neth1rlands (Huat be fluent in French). 
Prn. Rea, Villa required. 
INRYCO, Inc 8 in CE. 

Muon & Hanaer-Sil~us Haeon CQ., Inc Operating Contractor -Goverrunent Owned Annunition Loadfna Pllnt. 8 in HE. For: Delign Engr. Location: Burlington, lA. Perm. Rea. Vha req. 
!trtropol1tan Life ln1urance Co. Home Office B in Lib. Art•, Bu1. Ad, Hath, Comp Sci. P'or: General Bulinesa poaitiona throughout company; or Administrative Training Program. For Admin. Trng. Pros., a tranacrlpt of sr1daa required at time of interview. 
S.A.T. acoraa. Intereated in interviewing highest quality candidate• for lons term training and development program for future unagera and officen of the company. Location: New York City. Pera. Re1. Visa Req. 
NCR Corporation All BBA. 

Stanley Conaultantl, Inc Cancelled. 
U.S. Air Force 8KD 1n Ill !ngr diactpltnea, Math, Comp Sci. For: Development !ngr, Weather Space Syatema. Computer Officer. Location: N•tionwide. Citiaenehip req. 
lnduatrtal Riak Inaunre Property Fire Inaurance. B 1n all Engr dhciplinea. 8 in Phyllu, Chemlatry, Hath. For: Ptre Protection Engineering & ConaUli:ing Service to large industrial property owneu. Locations: 14 major cities in central U.S. Will refer to other major citiea nationwide. Cithenship required, 
Kaufmann's Department Store. & in Lib. Arts and Bus. Ad. Hrrchandf11e Trnlning Prognm. Location: Pittsburgh, 
PA. Penn. Ru. Visa rf'quired. 
X Metropolitan Life lnNurance Co. Homtl Office MBA. ~·of: General Businetili positions throughout comp•ny; OR Admfnlatrative Training Program. For Admtn. Ti-na. P~a_!lacr1pt of grades required at ~ interview. SAT and GRA or MAT Score1. Interested in intervi.ew~ng hi.ght.'&t quality candidntes for long term training and development progrrun for future managers and officers of thro company. Nt!w York City. Pl'"rm.Re~».Vi 
X !JAftCO Incorporated 8 In Kkt, MBA. 

L_ ----------------------------~----------------------~--~--------~--------------------------------------------------~ 
50-yard freestyle . Tom Krutsch NCAA national tourney that the 
(12th) men do <?n March 22-24, they do 
... Badgers 
1-meter diving-Betsy Shadley partake m the Great ~es. (5th), Wally Daniels (7th), Pro~able representatives f?r Chris Leonard (10th) the Irish. wome'! ll!e captam
[Continued from page 12] 
400-yard individual medley . Kare LaClty and Juruor DOOeein the first period, however, 
John Komora (lOth) Carntu.
when Wisconsin blitzed Laue­200-yard freestyle . Pat McDiv-A lfSt-year transfer studention. Poor· defensive play by the itt (lOth), Michael Hilger (12th) from Sanford, N.C., CarneyIrish and an excellent perfor­100-yarcl butterfly . Don Casey pos~s the be~t rc;cord at 37-8. 
mance · by the Wisconsm for­(9th), Rodv McLaughlin (11th) r.:~ty, a semor, Is 34-13 on thewards was the story of the 100-yard backstroke · Pat Y Th · h fi · dgame. 
LaPlatney (4th) (varsity record) e Ins. women mishe theBoth teams will face off 100-ard breaststroke -Kevin seas~n this ~ast weekend bytonight for the second game of Kor!wicki (8th), John Wila-beaung Bowling Green, 9-0,the series, with the contest mowski (11th), Pat Schneider Case. Western, .8-1, and
being broadcast back to South Oberlm, 6-3. The Insh women, 
(12 h)

Bend by WNDU-AM radio. 
3-~eter divin -Wally Daniels who finished the season a~ 14-3,Face-off is set for 8:30 South g Shadley (9th) were paced by Carney s 7-0
(2 d) B t

Bend time. n , e sy ' weekend slate. 

''Speaking as an ND Scholar, Miller beer rounds myacademic 
. , , 
expenence. -·Kevin Flynn '79
7ht CluunpCiflnt of7lms 


The Observer Wednesday,March7, 1979-page 10 
WASHINGTON (AP) factor in the decline of heroin tor of the Drug Enforcement to $2.19 for the most recent 
Recent multi-nation effons to supplies. Administration, said the purity reporting period,'' he said. 
curb illegal drug trafficking in But they both warned that of street-level heroin has ''Availabiliry has been dimi­U.S.heroin heroin has had a sharp impact heroin is being marketed in dropped 47 percent in the past nished to such an extent that on the availability of the drug increasing amounts in other two years-from 6.6 percent in not only are heroin abusers within the United States, two parts of the world -· panicularly March, 1976, to 3.5 percent in shifting to other drugs but thetraffic administration officals testified the Middle East -and that there the last reponing period of traffickers have as well,'' he yesterday. is concern these suppliers 1978. told a joint meeting of two Both officials credited the might soon try to impon their "Similarly, the price per subcommittees of the Housediminishes "get-tough" attitude on heroin products into the United States. milligram of pure heroin has International Relations Com­
traffickers by Mexico as a major Peter Bensinger, aqministra-risen from $1.26 in March 1976, mittee. 

ACROSS 27 Keepsakes -53 Fullness 21 Adherent 
1 Clock­31 Beyond Mt. 57 Sudden 23 Organic setting Rainier downfall compound letters 36 Street 59 Eleva's 26 Utters 
4 Caresses treat place 28 Hence 
8 Goneby 37 Collection 60 Townin 29 Patricia 11 Shrub genus of sayings Italy of films 13 See41A 38 Stringed 62 Beyond 30 Withered 14 Early Eng-instruments Bellevue 31 Thin coat 

lishman 40 Pike-like Hospital 32 Ending for 16 Beyond fish 64 Marneror differ or 
Hammerfest 41 With 13A, Lapham infer 18 Suppress Orkney sea 65 Lawyer: 33 European 19 Blood basin abbr. coal area 
vessel 44 Beyond_ 66 Road rig 34 Broadway 20 Extreme McMurdo 67 Thesun sign 22 Noplace Sound 68 Close 35 Ger. 
for a heart 47 Harbinger 69 Pal of 39 Stage 24 Gustos 49 Wrench long. 42 Mrs. North 25 Cainand 50 King of 43 Excuses Abel to Eve Crete DOWN 45 Healthier 1 Ms. Merrill 46 Abstract Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: and name-48 Genetic sakes • letters 2 Seat 51 "On life's 3 Earth in vast -" Evian 52 List of 
4 Below cpl. candidates 5 Axillary 54 Unusual 6 Gemstone 55 Moslem 7 Hammarskjold scholarly 
forone body 8 Leaf angle 56 Deserve 9 Deity 57 -up (preen} 
10 Single 58 This, in 12 Witness Cadiz 14 Division 60 Curve 15 Baked -61 Sch. subj. 

-17 "Cry -" 63 Norse godAll Rights Reserved 
The Daily Crossword 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli 

Mathea Falco, assistant 
secretary of state for interna­
tional narcotics matters, told 
the subcommittees that the 
high price and reduced puriry 
''are clear indications of signifi­

cantly reduced supplies of 
heroin for American drug 
abusers.'' 
Bensinger said almost 90 
percent of the heroin entering 
the United States in 1975 came 
from Mexican suppliers. He 
said impons of heroin from 
Mexican sources dropped to 56 
percent on the market in 1977. 
Piano trio to perform tonight 
The Manhattan Piano Trio, ensemble in residence at the Manhattan School of Music, will appear in recital at 8:15 
p.m. tonight in the Library Auditorium. The recital, a feature of the Notre Dame Concen Series, is open to the public at a charge of $1. 
The Manhattan Piano Trio is made up of three performers distinguished in their own right--Erick Friedman, violin; David Wells, cello; and Joseph Seigler, piano. As a tno they have concertized to critical acclaim in London, Vienna, Amsterdam, New York, and elsewhere. 
ND chronicle makes comeback 
"Notre Dame: One Hundred Years," the chronicle of the University written by Fr. Anhur J. Hope, C.S.C., that has been out of print for many years, has now been published m paperback by Icarus Press, South Bend. 
The reissued work is avail­able at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore or through Icarus Press, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 
SMChosts highschool math contest 
The third annual Michiana Mathematics Contest for Women will take place on Saturday, April 7, at Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame. Indiana. Co-sponsored by the Saint Mary's College mathe­matics department and the Bendix Corporation, South Bend-Mishawaka O~;>erations, the contest is designed to involve hi~h school women in mathematics. 

Now Available 
J.R.R. Tolklen's 
The Sllmatilllon 
The number one bestseller In paperback 


Hammes Notte Dame Bookstote 
Howard Hall 
presents 

the celebrated film 
''The Robe'' 
Wednesday, March 7 Free 6:30p.m. and 11 :30p.m. in Howard Hall 

-----:. tll~s 
The Observer Wednesday, March 7,1979 -page ·ll 

r 
I 
I 

Wednesday, March 7, 1979 -page 12 
Insh defense provtded little support for Dave Laurion, as Wzsconsin scored three times ear/yon their way to an easy win. [Photo by john Maco~] 
Fencers win three meets 
by Paul Mullaney Asszstant Sports Editor 

With the sweep of three weekend opponents, Notre Dame completed its fourth suc­cessive undefeated fencing sea­son by completing the 1979 season with a 20-0 mark. 
After defeating Bowling Green, 26-1, on Friday, the Irish travelled to Cleveland on Saturday to hand Case Western Reserve and Oberlin College respective 20-7 losses. Coach Mike DeCicco's swordsmen end the campaign with lOS consecutive victones, the long­est streak ever in collegiate fencing history. 
But DeCicco and his fencers are no longer concerned with undefeated seasons and win­ning streaks. Their foremost concern centers around the upcoming tournaments, for which they've. spent the entire season prepanng. 
"This is the stretch of the season that we've been waiting for," noted DeCicco. "all year long we've seen that as a team, and especially depth-wise, we are good as any one in the country." 
"Now we'll get a chance to compare our best with the best of all the schools in the coun­t '·' 
ryNotre Dame will defend its Great Lakes Fencing Championship title of 1978 this coming weekend at the annual midwestern afffair. To be held at Michgan-Dearborn on Friday and Saturday, the Irish will send their top two representa­
tives in each of three weapons --. [Continued on page 9] 
SMC fencers take three to close regular season 
foil, sabre and epee. 

While foil and epee are not definitely decided as of yet, there is little doubt of who will represent Notre Dame's sabre squad. Senior captain Mike Sullivan and junior Chris Lyons are at the top of the list in this weapon. 
Sullivan, a three-time All­American and two-time sabre gold-mealist, is 42-2 on the season, and finished his regu­lar-season Notre Dame career with an outstanding mark of 183-4 (.979), best ever in Notre Dame annals. 
Lyons, in his second varsity season has posted a 37-6 mark for the two-time defending national champions. 
While Andy Bonk is ~retty well assured of seeing actton in foil this weekend, the other spot is between weapon captain Steve Salimando and Sophomore Ray Benson. Salimando, 26-1 on the season, is currently suffering from a groin injury suffered last week­end. If he is unable to fence, Benson will probably carry a 25-10 mark into t!J.e Great Lakes competition. 
In epee, the two spots will be between senior M1ke Carney and Mike Schermoly and junior Tom Cullum. Schermoly has the best season mark at 33-11, while Cullum is 30-12 and Carney is 27-15. 
"We've done well all year long--better perhaps than we thought we would do," added DeCicco. "But we can't leave well enough alone. there's a lot yet to be accomplished.'' 
The Saint Mary's varsity fencing team finished their regular season play this week­end with three victories as they defeated Bowling Green, 
Oberlin College and Western Reservf:.  Case- 
Rose ann  Enyedy,  a  sopho­ 

more fencer and spokeswoman for the team, said, ''This is the first time in the history of the Saint Mary's fencing team that we have had a winning! season.'' The Belles ended the' season with a 9-5 record. 
Th_e Belles u:avelled_ to Bowhng Green, Ohto, on Fnday and soundly defeated the!r opponents, . 8-1. Sa~urday s meets aga10st . Oberlin and Case-Western 10 Cl~veland were more challengmg for SMC, but SMC cont10ued to dominate-the meets to win both with scores of S-4. 
Sharon Moore, captain of the team, and Twila Kitchen will represent Saint Mary's this weekend at the Great Lakes Championships to be held in Dearborn, MI. 
In first playoffgame 

Badgers blitz Irish icers, 11-5 
by Brian Beglane Sports Writer 
MADISON--The Notre Dame hockey team gave up three goals 10 the frrst four m10utes of the game to Wisconsin, and never managed to climb back, as the Irish dropped their first game of the WCHA playoffs to the Badgers, 11-5 . 
With Wisconsin winning this first game by six goals, all the Badgers have to do is lose by less than six goals in tonight's 
-gaf!le  to  win  the  total-goals  
senes.  
''We  just  have  to  look  at  

tonight's game as another day," said Notre Dame coach Lefty Smith. "We played poor defensively and let Wisconsin take control of the _game early. Every time we fought back, they came; right . back ~nd just 20 secor:;tds into the peri~d. scored. Like I satd, we JUSt Dave Pouhn got so~?eth10g have to start anew tonight." back for the Irish, w1th ~o 

Theran Welsh, Dave Speer, consecutive powerplay goals 10 and Les Grauer bombarded the final seven m10utes to cut Irish goaltender Dave Laurion the deficit to 8-3. . for those three goals as the Smith came back w1th Shores Notre Dame defens~ could for the final period, but when barely muster any support for Grauer scored his second goal its goalie. of the game 20 . seconds after 
Ron Griffin added another the faceoff, Launon went back goal at 6:48 of the first stanza in to the net. before Kevin Humpries finally The teams closed out the got the Irish on the board with game by exchanging_ tallies. four minutes to play in the Mark Johnson got h1s second period. Ron Schied and Bob and thrrd goals of the contest at Suter closed out the period fo 1:25 and 11:52 for his fifth hat 
the Badgers with two more trick of the year. goals for a 6-1 lead. In between that, Poulin got 
Smith replaced Laurion with his hat trick (his third of the Mark Shores to start the second year) at 3:08, while Greg Mere­period. But the Badgers scored dith scored unassisted at 6:02. on their shot when Mark ] ohn-The game had been dec1ded son connected on a powerplay [Continued on page 9] 
ND swim team sets five new records 
by Michael Ortman Sports Writer 
A few years ago, there was a sign which hung outside the home locker room in Notre Dame Stadium. It read, ''What tho the odds be, great or small, Notre Dame men will give their all." This past weekend, with the odds stacked heavily against them, the Irish swim­mers gave their all. 
No, it wasn't a miraculous come-from-behind victory. It wasn't even close. But Dennis Stark's tankers gave every ounce of strength they could muster, right down to the very end. 
The setting was the Midwest Invitational Swim Meet. Teams from five different schools tra­velled to Bloomington, Ill. to join host Illinois State in what turned out to be a terribly lopsided event. When the water settled, Western Ken­t.Ycky and Eastern Kentucky were perched high atop the heap with 446 and 443 points respectively. The Irish f10ished sixth with 180.· 

But their position in the team standings did not truly reflect the outstanding individual efforts made by the Irish swim­mers. Countless seasonal and individual best times were accounted for in the three-day­
long meet, including an amaz­ing total of five new varsity records, one of which was set in the final event of the season finale. 
"I really wish they didn't have to keep team totals," said coach Stark. "Our score cer­tainly doesn't show how well we swam. It was an incredibly fast meet -much faster than I had anticipated.'' 
The Irish records began to crumble on Friday, the first day of competition. Freshman Michael Hilger started the weekend off nght for the Irish. In the afternoon preliminary heats Hilger clocked a 4: 53.8 in the 500-yard fr,eestyle! breaking ] ohn Komora s vars1ty record of 4:54.5, set last season. 
Friday evening, Pat LaPlat­ney continued thi~ rec<;>rd breaking pattern while swtm­ming the backstroke leg of the 400-yard medley relay. His time of 55. 1 knocked a full second off of the varsity record which LaPlatney himself had set just two weeks earlier at Bowling Green. 
Following Saturday's record­less performance, the frrst, second and even third place slots were well out of reach for 
[Continued on page 9] 
NCAA Midwest 

Arkansas couldoust Sycamores 
Finally Indiana State will have to stop saying the whole world is against them and start playing basketball. 
While the Sycamores had trouble with pollsters throughout the year, they have finally reached· the number-one ranking they had claimed was theirs since midseason. They have also been treated kindly by the NCAA committee in charge of pairings as they were tabbed as the number-one seed in the meekest division in the tournament. 
] oining the only undefeated in the country is number-two seeded Arkansas, Louisville and Texas. The rest of the teams are not ranked in the top twenty but everyone in this division is a "Cinderella" candidate. 
While Indiana State is the favorite on paper, Arkansas has a lot of things going for them that may make the difference 10 a close game. 

The Razorbacks have played the toughest schedule as the winners of a much improved Southwest Conference. Eddie Sutton's team has the advantage of being to the Final Four as they captured the west division last year and recorded victories over UCLA and Notre Dame. But most importantly, Arkansas has been a hot team lately. Ranked sixth ahead of Duke in the UPI poll, the Razorbacks sport a 23-4 ~ecord desp-tte a rough start due to the graduation of standouts Ron Brewer and Marvin Delph. 
Indiana State still must be the sentimental choice, as was Cal-State Fullerton last year. The Larry Bird-led Sycamores can match up to the Sidney Moncrief-led Razorbacks, but experience and playing tough opposition can make the difference in a do-or-die situation. 
Louisville has been a big disappointment this 


Ray 
O'Brien 
season. "Doctors of Dunk" were rated to be one of the best in preseason, but have continually faltered in big games. Although they captured the Metro Seven regular season title, they lost in the post-season tournament to Virginia Tech, who also sneaks into the Midwest Region. The Cardinals last were seen being pummeled by the Russians on national television and while they are as talented as anyone, Denny Crum just has not found the formula to make them a big winner. 
Fifteenth-ranked Texas is the only other viable contender. Tying Arkansas for the r~gular season title, the Longhorns got knocked off in the post-season tournament. Abe Lemons' crew has had .their troubles all year picking up steam.and momentum is a key ingredient in winning an NCAA title. An opening win over a 
decent Oklahoma rolling.  squad could  get  the ball  
Expect  to  see  upsets  in  the  Midwest  

Reg-ionals, as even teams like Virginia Tech, whtch reached the Eastern Regional Champions game three years ago could gain national attention. But when the dust has cleared in Cincinnati, the ''tournament-tested-tough'' crew from Arkansas should find themselves in the Final Four for the second straight year and Larry Bird and crew will go back to being normal old Hoosiers. 


