----..--------­
, , , Sexual equality at ND-page 5 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
SMC Student Government revises shuttle schedule 
by Margie Brassil wait until he circled the StaffReporter campus. 
Despite the fact that students The Saint Mary's Student were always asked to lock andGovernment met last night in unlock the gates at US 31, thethe basement of Re8ina North Bus Drivers' Union has pro­Hall. Among the tssues dis­tested against using this roadcussed were the new bus because it is not in theirschedule which took effect yes­contract for the drivers to leaveterday, the addtion of a gyne­the bus and unlock the gate.
cologist to the Health Services, Until this problem is solved thethis semester's movie schedule bus will enter Notre Dameand the Student Government campus via US 31 and Angelaelection schedule. 
Ave when the automatic gate is 
Marianne Frost, co-ex com­not working. 
missioner, explained that the Student government Presi­new bus schedule was a result dent Gail Darragh announced of the experimental re-routing that a gynecologist will be hired of traffic for a new library to come on campus once a week 
tentatively planned for the as p_art of the Health Services LeMans parking lot. The new staff. Students wishing to schedule, which students consult him will be charged $5 should be receivin~ by mail for his service in place of a later this week, w1ll mclude general charge added to the only the stops at Holy Cross, Health Service fee. In a surveyRegina, McCandless and taken last semester, 74 percentMadeleva Halls on the Saint of the responding students Mary's campus. At Notre requested thts type of payment. Dame the bus will stop at the Since the contract has not yetGrotto, the Library, Mam Circle been finalized Darragh could and the Grotto again. Only two give no further specifics but an stops have been eliminated this announcement will be made semester, at LeMans parking later this week. lost at Saint Mary's and Nieuw­
Mary Laverty, Director ofland Science Hall at Notre Student Activities, finalized the Dame. This schedule will be new calendar of events at thethe same every day and night. 
meeting and gave the list for this semseter's movie series:Additional stops will be made ] an. 28-29 King and Itwice during the week and three 
Feb. 2-3 World's Greatest
times on the weekends a~ the 
Lover
corner of Notre Dame Ave. and Feb. 23-24 PattonCorby and t~e Kroger parking 
March 10-11 Hello Dolly!
lot as a servtce to Off-Campus 
March 30-31 Brian's Song 
students. The exact times of 
April 6-7 Lady Sings the
these scops will be noted on the 
Blues
schedule. 
April 19-20 Molly Maguire's 
Frost warned that because of The election schedule for the longer routes and new next year's Student Govern­schedule buses will probably ment will begin February 26 run late this week. She advised when the nommations must be student coming to class at turned in. Campaigning will be Madeleva Hall from Notre from Mar. 5-12 and elections 
Dame to ask the bus driver to will be held on Mar. 12. leave them off at the entrance The next Student Govern­of the drive to Madeleva. ment meeting will be FebruaryOtherwise they would have to 5 at 7 p.m. in Regina Hall. 

Bomb blast in Beirut kills top PLO security guard 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -A others. booby-trapped automobile The Palestine Liberation Or­ganization said Salameh, code­
packed with explosives blew up 
named "Abu Hassan," was
on a Beirut street yesterday, 
mortally injured when the
ripping a passing station wagon 
booby-trapped car, parked near
to shreds and killing eight 
his heavily-guarded home in 
persons, including Ali Hassan 
Beirut's Moslem sector, was
Salameh, the reputed master­
detonated by remote control as
mind of the 1972 Munich Olym-
Abu Hassan's station wagon
pics massacre, officials said. 
passed it. The explosion killed four Abu Hassan, 36, was the top Palestinian bodyguards in the security guard of PLO guerrilla station wagon with him. Shrap­chieftain Y asser Arafat and was nel and flying glass from the chief of the secret service of AI blast killed three Lebanese Farah, the largest ofthe seven pedestrians and wounded 16 PLO factions. 



I 
Yesterday was the last day for juniors to submit applications for RA positions. [Photo by Ron Szot.J 

Iran's military chief appeals for defense of present government 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP)--Iran's military chief, in the experience of their commanders." an unprecedented radio appeal, called on his 
''The servants of the imperial armed forces, troops yesterday to "overcome their senti­with decisive will and patnotism will overcome ments" for Moslem religious leaders and their sentiments and will endeavor more than defend the government left behind by the before to support the legal government." 
shah. 
In his earlier news conference, the generalNew political violence .flared in the pr~v­again denied a coup was planned.
inces. ARmored troops m one western ctty The violence in the western city of Rezar.ieh, 
broke up street battles between pro and near the Turkish border, left it lookin "hke aanti-shah ~angs in which five persons were war-torn city,'' government radio reported. 
reported ktlled. 
It said troops used tanks to break up streetIn another serious blow to the embattled barricades and disperse the fighting gangs of government of Prime Minister Shahpour pro and anti-shah Iranians :eakhtiar, the head of the Regency Council that Fiver persons were killed and 25 otherssupposedly is acting in the shah's absence, wounded, and witnesses reported continuingJalai Trhrani, resigned under pressure from gunfire in the city at dusk yesterday, the radioanti-Shah religious leader Ayatullah Khomeini. 
said. 
Fen. Abbas Gharabaghi, military chief. of Other clashes involving royalist elements staff made his broadcast speech after telhng were reported across the country. The official 
repo~ters the 430,000-man armed fo~ces. stoo~ Pars news agency said pro-shah gangs armedfirmly behind the "legal and constitutional 
with long . sticks attacked cars and buses 
Bakhtiar government in the face of the near Kerman­
bearin8 Khomeini's pottraitchallenge by Khomeini, long-exiled head of shah, m west Iran, and one drive was fatallyIran's dominant Shiite Moslem sect. 
injured. Khomeini, who orchestrated the movement 
In other developments:--The shah, who leftthat drove Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi from Iran on an indefinue "vacation" last Tuesday, Iran, plans to return to Iran Friday and vows to ended a six-day visit in Egypt and flew toreplace Bakhtiar and the U.S.-backed constitu­Morocco. He is expected to remain there twotional monarchy with an Islamic republic. 
or three days before flying on the the United The army, many of whose top commanders States and what many believe will be 
remain loyal to the shah, may hold the key to permanent exile. whether Khomeini succeeds in toppling the 
The Soviet newspaper Izvestia declaredPahlavi dynasty, Tehran has been filled with the Iranian people ''are full of confidence ~hat rumors of a possible military coup to keep thye will put an end forever to AmencanKhomeini from power.f 
interference.'' The Soviets have not openly
"In this sensitive period of history, I would endorsed any of the factions in Ir~n, but one 
like to remind you that the unity, security and Western diplomat in Moscow satd they are well-being of the people is in danger," ''getting themselves into a postion where they Gharabaghi told the armed forces. can try to control events" later on. 
He said he was sure "that all of you will not --Khomeini followers demonstratedin the 
hesitate in performing your duties.'' But he 
cai?ital, chanting "God is Great!" and urgingsaid "elements with bad intentions" were umty behind the 78-year-old Ayatullah. But 
seeking to infiltrate the ranks of the military 8roups of religious Moslems and leftist, allies "and create difficulties." 
m the anti-shah movement, shouted bitterly at 
He appealed to young enlisted soldiers, each other in one incident, reflecting growing many of whom are believed to have deep uneasiness between the conservative Moslems respect for Khomeini, ''to make the best use of and young leftists. 
-~-­
. . ----------------. 

1News in brief 
Tuesday, January 23, 1979 -page 2 

Pope may visit the Philippines 
MANILA, Philip~.ines (AP)-Pope John Paul II may attend an international re~ious med:;;nJ in the Philippines in December, according to Car · IJaime L. Sin, Archbishop of Manila. The Cardinal disclosed the possible papal visit at a news conference Monday to announce that the Archdiocese of Manila will celebrate its 400th anniversary next month. "I'm thinking of p<>ssibly going to the Philippines in December,'' the cardinal quoted the lope as tetlin~ him when he was last in Rome. Sin adde , however, "its too early to say he's definitely coming." About 84.2 percent of the 46 million people of the Philippines are Roman Catholics. 

Steeler fans run amuck in Pittsburgh 
PITISBURGH (AP)-Thousands of cheering football fans penetrated a defensive line of 500 policemen'and whooped thier way through downtown Pittsburgh after the Steelers' third Super Bowl victory. Police said heavy patrols using dogs to control the crowds, prevented a reenactment of rampages that left downtown office and store windows shattered and cars overturned after Super Bowl wins in 1975 and 1976. "This isn't bad compared to the others," said Police Inspector A.). Brozovich, who was sidelined for 60 days in 1976 with hts front teeth knocked out in a downtown victory celebration. "We didn't have helmets last time either." Preparation appeared to be the difference this year, as police· sealed off the downtown area well before the game was over to all vehicles, including trolleys and buses. Pedestrians were not stopped. 
Supreme Court decides to rule on Laetrile ban 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The Supreme Court, stepping into a medical and legal storm of controversy ,said yesterday it will decide whether the federal government may ban laetrile. The justices voted to study lower court rulings that permitted the substance's use by terminally ill cancer victims. The controversy swirllng around Laetrile, a derivative of apricot pits, is a highly emotional one because of modem medicine's failure thus far to conquer cancer. The justices' eventual decision may hinge on the privacy rights of cancer victims . whether the government may limit the treatments available to persons suffering from a disease for which there is no known cure. Government lawyers say the Laetrile ban is necessary to protect cancer vicums because the substance has not been found to be safe or effective. Opponents of the substance also have ar~ued that allowing Laetrile treatments could keep cancer patients from seeking more traditional therapies that have been proven partly effective. 

Psych Services changes name to reflect change in services 
by Renee Leuchten 
Dr. Patricia Crosson, director of the newly christened Student Mental Health Center, formerly called ''Psychological Services,'' stresses that the name change reflects a change in the services and treatment used at the Center 
More short-term therapy ses­sions are one result of the new concept which emphasizes mental health instead of the formerly emphasized illness of a client. Treatment was typically year-long, but now sessions are held each week as _part of six-week programs. Students use problem-solvmg, behavior modi­fication, and gestalt techniques in the sessions. 
In addition to treatment changes, the Center has developed an outreach{rogram for the prevention o ps}'ch­ological problems. The ftrst phase of the program employs ftlms and talks on alcohol given in the halls by Peggy Cronin, A.C.S.W.Cronin has trained a group of students to assist her in her work. The group, called SOAP (Students on Alcohol Pro­blems), needs more members, Cronin points out. 
The second phase of the out­reach program, to be imple­mented this semester, is destgn­ed to build closer contact bet­ween the center, hall rectors and their staffs. Hoping to sensitize the hall staffs to detect .Problems before they become senous, the center offers tapes on a variety of psychological problems studentf' 
Mardi Gras workers 

meet tonight 
There will be mandatory meet­ing for all Mardi Gras booth chairmen, raffle chairmen, and 
-architects tonight at 8:30 at the St. Mary's clubhouse. Booth description forms for the booklet should be turned in at this time. There will also be a raffle ticket collection. 
may have. These tapes will be available to students in the future by radio or telephone. 
The program, consistent with the community mental health movement of the past 20 years, is one which Dr. Crosson helped develop since she became direct­of the Center last July. 
About six percent of the ND student body used the center last year. Most students had problems with peer relationships, academic anxieties, depression, or alcohol or drug abuse. 
In addition to individual therapy, many students particip­ate in group therapy where they can relate their problems to another's. Dr. Crosson said the individual and group therap}' sessions deal more on the feel­ing-level than the skill-level. She added that most Notre Dame students already know the skills used in relationships, yet many ' are out of touch with emotions which guide the relationship. 

Severe emotional problems are not necessary for psychomerapy. Any student who wants profess­ional aid ih the area of personal growth may call the Center for an appointment. The staff includes clinical psychologists, an alcohol counselor and a consultant psych­iatrist. 
TheCenteris open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Provisions can be made for immediate consultation by contacting the emergency 24­hour answering service at 283-7336. 


Lacrosse club meets today 
The Notre Dame Lacrosse team schedule, and the conditioning
will meet today at 4:30 in the 
program for the upcoming season lobby of LaFortune. Everyone on will be discussed. If you cannot 
the team and anyone interested attend please give either yourin learning to play lacrosse is class representative or Bob required to attend this important Curley [8384( a call. meeting. The raffle, spring 



Weather 

A winter storm watch posted for today and toni~ht. A 70 percent chance of snow today with highs in the mtd to upper 20s. Snow tonight and tomorrow, possibly heavy. Lows tonight in the mid 20s. Steady or falling temperatures tomorrow. 
12:15 pm--SEMINAR, "specific and non-specific suppressor substances," dr. byron h wakeman, yale u., spon. by depts. of biology, microbiology, and miles laboratories, inc., 278 GALVIN 
6,8:30 & 11 pm--FILM, "the grapes of wrath," WASHINGTON HAll 
6,8:30 & 11 pm--FILM, "cool hand luke," ENG. AUD. 
7 pm--BASKEIBAIL, smc vs. manchester, ANG. Ani. FAC. 
8:30 pm--MEEllNG, mardi gras booth and raffle chairmen & ardUtects, SMC a.uBHOUSE . . 

FThe Observer 
Night  Editor:  Sue  
Wuetcher  .  
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Bill  
Devitt  
Copy  Readers:  john  

McGrath, Kathy Connelly Layout Staff: john Smith john McGrath Features Layout: Chris Stewart Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Mardi Nevin, Tom Pipp, Pete McFadden, Rosie Rodgers EMT: Katie Brehl Day Editor: john Ferroli Ad Layout: joe Murphy, Bob Rudy Photographer: Ron Szot 1 
The Observer [USPS 598 9201 Is published Monday ttlrough Frldly ex­cept during exam and vae~tlon periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purdlased lor S20 per year 1110 per 
semester! from The Observer. P.O. bor 
0. Notre Dame, Indiana 4&556. Second class postage jllid, Notre Dame. In­
diana ·46556. 
The Observer Is 1 member of tile A.-llllcl Press. All reproduction fltlltsartrllllwd. 
·I. 
....... 
... .: 
.. 
.. 
. : 
• • :. • ~..·.. 
., .. ·. 

. • 
'I 
The Observer Tuesday, January 23, 1979 -page 3 




Jersey tenement fire clain1s seven lives 
jERSEY CITY* N.j. [AP]-North­ern New Jersey's second tene­ment fire m three days killed five children and two adults yester­day, and police launched a man­hunt for an arsonist who may have torched the building in a personal vendetta. 
The fire brought the death toll to 40 persons killed in fu-es thought to have been deliberately set in northern New Jersey cities in the past six weeks, authorities said. 
A mother and her five children where among_ those who died when a pre-dawn blaze swept through a four-story brick builo­ing in the third such fire in the Jersey City ~enement since December. 
Victims were seen pounding_ on a window shortly before fire­fighters arrived,' but apparently were overcome by smoke when they tried to reach a fu-e escaJ?e, said Deputy Fire Chief Domimck Cardillo. 
''If they had stayed at the front window, we could have gotten them out. But when people are in a ftre, they panic," Cardillo said. 
As Jersey City police hunted a man seen fleeing the building, less than two miles away a demolition crew was looking through the rubble of a Hobo!Cen tenement, looking for two bodies missing after a fu-e on Saturdav that clained at least 19 lives. 
Tweleve persons burned to death in a Newark tenement on Dec. 7. Witnesses told police they saw a man running away from the building. No arrests have been made. 
1ersey City Police Detective Howard Shea said authorities knew of no motive in yesterday's fire but sus_pected it was the work of an arsomst. 
"We think it had to be an act of spite, a personal vendetta of some kind," Shea said. 
A woman resident, who asked not to be identified, told report­ers that shortly before the 2 a.m. fire she saw a man in a hallway carrying a blue container. 
She said the man threw the container against the stairs and ran from the building. 
"I ~ot my kids out of the building and started screaming,'' she said. ''When I turned around the stairs were on fu-e. '' 
Authorities later found the blue container. 
The suspect was described as a black male, in his 20's, of medium build. He was wearing tennis shoes, she told police. 
''When they fmd him, I hope they hang him," said one resid­ent who asked not to be identif­ied. "Don't use my name. I don't want him to come back to find me." 

Roche sets guidelines 
SU selection process begins 
Student Union Director Bill Roche announced the _process for selecting next year's director and comptroller. Applications for the positions will be available Feb­ruary 13th in the Student Union office on the third floor of LaFortune. 
According to Roche, the dir­ector has two primary functions. First, he is, "responsible for overseeing all operation of the union.'' The director makes appointments, sees that the budget is executed and directs the steering committee. 
Secondly, "the director must relate the unions activities to the rest of the campus. He must keep in contact with the HPC, dorms and Student Govern­ment." 
''The comptroller keeps the financial records and is charge of the disbursement of funds," Roche explained. 
Any sophmore, junior or senior in the undergraduate student body is eligible for the positions. Roche emphasized that anybody can apply. "The selection pro­cess IS not limited to students presently working within the union, Roche stated. He added that if a person is interested in the job they "should have some knowledge of the structure and overall workin~s of the Union. 
The applicattons are due Feb­ruary 20th and will be evaluated during the next week by the steering committee. The com­mittee is made up of Director Roche, Comptroller Maureen Carney, Social Commissioner 
John Bonacci, Services Commis-

Closed roads switch shuttle route 
Due to problems caused by the closing of roads at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, the shuttle has been rerouted. The stops at Saint Mary's will be Holy Cross Regma, McCandless and Maaeleva. The bus will no longer stop at LeMans Hall. 
On Notre Dame's campus, the Nieuwland stop has been discon­tinued due to construction work in the area. During the day the ND stops will be as follows: Grotto-Library--Main Circle­Gortto. The evening run on ND' s campus will remain unchanged. The complete new shuttle schedule will appear in the Observer later this week. 
sioner Gary Luchini and Cultural Arts Commissioner Jerry Perez. 
Applicants will be interviewed following the evaluation period on February 27. On the next day February 28, the steering com­mittee will meet to make recom­mendations for the positions of director and comptroller. Four votes are needed to gain the nomination. 
The decision will then be sent to the Board of Commissioners for review. Members of the Board of Commissioners are Roche, Andy McKenna, Student Body Pre­sident; Mike Roohan, Student Body Vice-President; Jayne Rizzo Judicial Coordinator; Pat Mason, Student Government Treasurer; Chuck Del Grande, Chairman of the Hall Presidents Council (HPq and Dan Darfler, HPC representative. 
The final decision will be made on March 1 and the new director and comptroller will take office on April 1. Anyone with quest­ions may call the Student Union office. 





Iii•..•
1 
~!~! 
....
:~: ~ 
~ 



i: :~:~:~=~~=:~~~ ::~ 

vo~u:,:~~~~~c::~icJea~~;:,~~ II .. ••• 
slide prebsentatiodn & discuc:cion .... in 1i rary au . 4:00-5:00 
.... 

Follow Notre Dame basketball throughout the season in the ([bica!lo trribune 
For dorm delivery call 8648 -Rich Flaherty 
·;:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::~:::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;.:::·:·:·:·:::::·:·:·:::·:·:·:·:·:::.:-:::::~::~ 
N.D.KARATE CLUB Tues & Thurs 6-8 pm re;;; in the ACC Pit ~ new members welcome beginners class being formed lnsttuctots ate ffiastet Raymond L. sell 4th Degtee Black Belt ffit. m~tk Gtlffles 1st Degtee Black Belt classes start this tuesday call Mike 3588 or Mark 234-2032  


The Observer Tuesday, January 23, 1979 -page 4 
1. 
The elections will be held during the with sould gear are allowed, including first week of March each year. (The exact sound trucks. Bfloons are permlssable. date Nill be announced.) Skywriting and airplane banners are al­

lowed. 

2. 
Petitions to run for office may be picked 



up at the Student Government Office two 4. The only thing which can be donated to a weeks before election day. Petitions are to ticket without It being assessed againstbe returned approximately a week later, at their spending limit is people's labor. All which time there will be a mandatory other donated services or materials will be candidates meeting. Two hundred signa­assess against the candidate's spending 
tures with respective I. D. numbers will be limit at their fair market value. 
needed for the nomination of SBP/SBVP candidates. Students may sign more than 5. If acandidate fails to disclose the proper one candidate's petition. Only official cost o1 nay campaign materials, he will be petitions may be circulated. A list o1 all penalized. Penality: forfeiture of can-finalized candidates will be published In the didacy. • Observer. 
6. No write-Ins or blank ballots are 
3. A $60 limit on campaign expenses will allowed. They will not be counted. No be set for all SBPISBVP candidates. endorsements may be given by the HPC as Outside contributions count toward cam­a body, or the the Student Government, paign expense limit. Receipts for all Student Union, or the Board of Commis­materials purchased are required by the sioners. No endorsements may be sought 
Election Committee. All receipts must be from any freshmen. Candidates accept received by the committee before the media endorsement at their own risk. distribution of materials can begin. A copy 
of any and all posters must be submitted to 7. Candidates cannot use any gathering of the Election Committee before posting. an organization for campaign purposes, These may be left in the Ombudsman even If they are members of that or{1811iza­Office. Posters may not be larger than 11 tion. Penalty: 50 percent campaign inches by 17 inches and thye cannot be expenses will be deducted. placed on outside walls, trees, or any exterior areas according to University 8. SBP and SBVP candidates will be held rules. Posters are to be displayed inside responsible for the actions of anyone in the dormitories and inside public buildings. their campaign or organization. No posters are allowed In or ouside the 
dining halls. Sandwich style signs are 9. No one may disclose his or hier intention permitted. No stickum adhesives may be to run for the office of SBP/SBVP sooner used on any materials. No moving vehicles than the beginning o1 the spring semester. 
... get all the news on notre dame and st. mary's sub~cribe to 




_The Observer_ 
thru May for only $10 send payment to: 
THE OBSERVER, CIRCULATION 
BOX Q 

NOTRE DAME, IND. 46556 
along with your name, address. and zip 
RIVER CITY RECORDS PRESENTS: 




Harry Chapin 
in concert! 
The Master Story-Teller Returns to South Bend 
Fridav February 2 8:00.pm Morris Civic Auditorium Reserved seats: $7.50;$6.50 
Now on sale at RIVER CITY RECORDS, 
50970 U.S. 31 North (3 miles north of 
campus) and at the Morris Civic Box 
Office, downt~wn South Bend. 
Penalty: 25 percent of campaign expenses will be deducted. 
10. 
No one may organize a campaign committee sooner than four weeks prior to election day. Organizing a campaign committee includes soliciting any help whatsoever, seeking endorsements, or seeking committments for participation or support. Penalty: 25 percent of campaign expenses will be deducted. 

11. 
No candidate may solicit help or support from a person in an official organization (including Student Govern­


• ment, Student Union, or HPC) until the actual campaigning period begins. Penal­ty: 25 percent of campaign expenses will be deducted. 
12. 
The balloting areas must be clear of campaign literature or "vote-getters". Election Day signs will be permitted and provided. The Election Committee re­serves the right to be the final arbiter-and change the penalties based on the degree of the offense. 

13. 
Only an official candidate campaign and completed petitions are needed to make a candidacy official. Therefore, campaigning may not begin until the petitions are returned to the Election Committee at the candidate's meeting, approximately one week before the primary election. Campaigning is any public contact--especially the distribution of posters, buttons, ribbons, etc., and the making of speeches--used to solicit votes, except in the distribution of official petitions. 


by Kathleen ConneUy 
Senior StaffReporter 
The election of the Student Body President and Student Body Vice-President for 1979­1980 will take place earlier this year to allow the President­elect more transition time, ac­cording to SBP Andy McKenna. Elections are scheduled for Mar. 1. Last year the elections were held on Mar. 7, and a run-off was held on Mar. 9. 
The timetable for the 1979­1980 campaign begins on ] an. 29 with an organizational meeting at 10 p.m. in the Student Government offices for all persons interested in run­ning for SBP/SBVP. 
Official candidacy petitions will be passed out a t a mandatory meeting for poten­tial candidates at 10 p.m. on Feb. 8 in the Student Govern­ment offices. Petitions will be returned no later than 5 p.m. on Feb. 15. To establish candi­dacy, 200 signatures are re­quired on each petition. 
Campaigning will begin on Feb. 19 at noon and continue through midnight, Feb 26. The primary election is scheduled for Feb. 27, and the general election for Mar. 1. 
Student Government releases election rules 


Junior class finalizes plans for Senior Oass trip to Acapulco 
by Ellen Buddy Saint Mary's Editor 
The 1980 Senior Class trip is scheduled for October break, 1979 in Acapulco, Mexico. Julie Essig, Public Relations person for the committee said a final decision was reached in a meeting last Friday. The decision was based on surveys that were administered to the 
Junior classes on both cam­puses this past November and five bid letters that were sent tol various travel agencies in the Chicago and South Bend areas. 
The bid letters inquired about both Acapulco and Jamaica, the first and second choices selected by the Junior class. According to Essig, Forlow Travel Agency of South Bend provided the best package deal and price for either loca­tion. Acapulco was chosen because transportation is easily accessible and reasonably priced, and because side trips to various places of interest are available at minimal cost. Also influencing the decision was the possibility of accomodations in four person condominiums with kitchenettes on Acapulco Bay. 
''The approximate initial cost based on air fare rates at this time is $295, but this is ex­pected to increase due to sub­sequent increases in air fare between now and October. I would not expect the base cost to be over $32 5 , " Essig said. This price includes round trip motor coach between South Bend/Chicago, five nisht con­dominium accommodations and round trip air fare. It also covers extras, such as a cocktail party and border taxes. 
Juniors could choose among October break, Christmas vaca­tion and Spring break for a trip October as the ftrst choice. According to Essig the commit­tee debated the date owing to the fact that many athletic pro~rams and student teaching assignments take place at this time, excluding some student participation. The committee reviewed all three possibilities with respect to the situation. 
Christmas vacation poses the problem of bad weather, pos­sibly resulting in cancellation of flights. The scheduling of flights from major points of departure to accommodate stu­dents from various states was another problem. The latter problem would also cause dis­crimination in base costs. It was believed that Spring break 
was too close to Senior formal 
and graduation. It is also a time 
set aside for job interviews. 
Ultimately, October break pro­
vided the best dates. 
Essig said a deposit, due in the Spring, will be necessary to reserve a place in the trip. The amount is not yet available but will be .released as plans are finalized. 
Anyone with questions, com­ments or suggestions is encour~' aged to contact any of the four members of the Senior Trip committee. They are Julie Essig (4-1-4796), Mary Beth Hudak (4-1-5728), Pat Bryski (8760),or Erin Boyle (6841). ' 
During Break 

Maids Feel Chilly 
by Betsy Spinelli 
Campus maids worked in temperatures ranging in the thirties during the semester 
break because of a University effort to conserve energy. 
Thermostats were turnedd down to lOC in student rooms while warmer temperatures were maintained in corridors and lavatories, according to one employee. 
Many maids were unaware of the plans to keep temperatures so low despite efforts in the maintenance office to inform cleaning staffs. 
Rumors circulated among dorm employees as recently as yesterday to the effect that a breakdown in the boilers neces­sitated turning vff the heat. An authority in the central heating office reported that there was no such breakdown. 
"We were lucky," said a hot water to do the floors. Some buildings didn't and the ladies had to have their hands in cold water." . 
"I'm one of the youngest (maids) here," she continued, adding, "Some of the others are almost seventy ...and they're only working so they can eat. Two of them down­stairs caught cold. I just wish we had known ahead of time so we could have planned on it (the cold) ... you can't work when you're sick.'' 
Father James L. Reihle, rector of Pangborn Hall and director of energy conservation for the University, reported thiu there has been little difficulty with heat reduction in the past and he was unaware of prob­lems this year. Figures which will reflect the savings gener­ated by the measures to con­serve energy will be made available to Fr. Reihle in about 

date. The survey tallied maid in Farley Hall. "We had ten days. 
of either "institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD
_The Observer_ reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............ Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson as possible. Editorials~ represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray 0 'Bnen Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chns Stewart Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb lAnghenry . Photo Edi{or .......... ,Doug Christian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor . . . . . . . Rosemary Mills per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cacld_el Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Saint Mary's EditoF ...... FJJen Buddy Business Manager ......... John Tucker Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ &bRudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 
------------------~----------------------------·-------­
1 
I



f"'eatures 
Tuesday, January 23, 1979 -page 

Sex and Equality: ND's Virgin Territory 
Many girls have told me that, in one sense, Notre Dame has been the best experience of their lives--the reason­ing being that "if we can survive all the put-downs and anti-female pre­judice here at Notre Dame, we can survive anything.'' They may not realize it, but many men around duLac share the opinion that if they can survive four years with the ladies of Notre Dame, then they can overcome any conceivable obstacle that might await them on the "outside." Why this basic dissatisfaction on the part of so many students? Can we do anything about it? Perhaps the following points have something to do with this situation: 
(1) 
Although many men ~on't like to admit it, we should recogmze that the average woman who enters Notre Dame is--by almost any standard we have of measuring Intelligence-­smarter than the average freshman male. This fact, together with the famous "ratio", tends to intimidate a great many men. 

(2) 
Next we come to the well-known problem of s~x~ality. _I'm not su~e any reliable stattsttcs extst, but I d be willing to bet the vast majority ofNotre Dame women are virgins. This is no crime in itself, but it might go a lo_ng way toward explaining the negattve feelings experienced by women at ND. As any male Domer will tell you if he's honest, the combination of (a) a relatively small number ofwomen. and (b), a strong tendency on the.p.artof those women not to blaze new tratls on the road to sexual liberation makes for a lot of long, cold South Bend nights. The fact that so many women should feel this way is due to a lot of things, especially 

(A) 
the ethnic-Catholic background of many Notre Dame women 

(B) 
the University:s at~empts to keep intersexual relattonshtps as un­natural as possible (single-sex don~s, parietals, the du Lac regulatton 


against pre-marital sex, the conscious attempt to hold down the number of female students) 
(C) a strong feeltng of insecurity on the part of many women, brought on by the inability of some ~D men to distinguish between havmg sex and making love. 
Still, we have to admit that although sex without love may not be the best, love without sex is definitely the "?-ost boring. Not only that, but tt may JUSt be that a freer sexual atmosphere here at ND will turn out to be the salvation of many Notre Dame co-eds. There are several reasons for this, and all of them deserve mention: (1) Sex is fun. 
(2) The myth that "sex ts. me~~ingful only in the context of marnage . ts first of all a relic of medieval moraltty, and secondly one of the those statements people never think about, but agree to only because "I've been brought up that way'' or because to do ~o requires less ''risk'' and less tntellectual energy than to consider any possible alternative. (3) Women have an interest in full equality, and sex.ual freedom is one aspect of that equaltty. History clearly shows that where women have been most sexually restrained, they've also :;u.ffered frof!l social and poliucal inequ:tltty .. Here It might b~ useful to e~amu?-e . t~e historical bases ofpre-manta! vtrgmtty and general sex':lal r~straint, and see tf we can determme tf ou~-dated prac­tices have anything to do with the problem at Notre Dame. 
Exami_>Ies abound, but I o~ly have time to mclude a few. Constder the institution of the dowry--in every society in whicL it existed, it was scarcely more than a bribe paid by ~he father of the bride to the prospective husband for taking his daughter (an economic liability) off his hands. The daughter ws expected to be a virgin because virgintty meant she was 
"undamaged goods." She was a chattel, a piece of property, given to the husband along will all the cattle, pigs, or whatever else went into the dowry. We all know, of course, that the dowry has gone the way of the horse and buggY., but the mentality that created it still lingers. 
Consider all Islamic societies, (even in our own day), where ~omen ~~ve traditionally been placed m a posttt?n of legal, political, and sexual submts­sion with respect to men. 
Consider Victorian morality. The typical bourgeois female of the 19th century was expected to find sex vaguely distasteful--something done in the interests of having children, or perhaps in order to satisry "his" animalistic desires, but certatnly not a pleasureable outlet for the woman herself. Again, restrictions on female sexuality found their way into other areas of life as shown in the absurd notion that ~omen were too "dainty", too "fragile" to excel in athletics. At the same time, Victorian society denied women the vote, and empha­sized the passive, stay-at-home role of the woman. So much for the historical validity of virginity. 
What has the Church's role been in all this? The Church has proved itself a veritable bastion ofconservatism and male domination. The same Church that preaches against the evils of p,re-marital sex and in favor of the 
'sanctity of marria~e" tells women they have no place m its priesthood. While other churches have been busy improving the condition of wom~n, t~e Catholic Church. has ~een p~ym~ .ltp service to equaltty while mamtatmng solid op,positton to any proi_>osal (such as the 'legalizaiton'' of artificial birth control for women in the Church) which misht put women on an equal footing wtth men. 
Of course, outside the Catholic church (and ouside ND), much pro­gress has been. made. Women. are entering the ma~nstre~ of Af!Iertcan life after centunes of tcequaltty. It should be noted, however, that on the "outside" women are generally more sexually emancipated than at Notre Dame. Is there any connection? I think so. 
The evidence of the last thirty years tends to indicate that sexual freedom and social equality go together. ~he revolution in sexual mores whtch 
began in the late 40's with the Kinsey reports has spawned other revolutions. Everywhere--in business, academics, athletics (look at the tremendous increase in womens' sports programs in the last five years)--women are insisting on the right to equal treat­ment. The inhibitions and social taboos against women acting with freedom and assertiveness (in all areas) are crumbling. 
Stifl, there are many women who insist they don't Want to be equal. They like things the way they always have been. That's thetr choice, but those women should realize that although they may be "satisfied" to a certain extent with their lives, they'll never be treated with true respect and esteem--only with condescenston. The same goes for women who say they want equality but don't do anything about it. Action is what counts. The way to abolish sexual inequality is to change attitudes, not laws, because law~; are only the outward expressions of established attitudes. 
T:1e key to changing attitudes lies in demonstrating the equality of wom~n in all respects, and the place to start ts the bedroom where the most important male-female interactions take place. Either women act like they're equal, or they' II never be taken seriously by anvone. 
Confronted with these facts, what should the typical Notre Dame woman do? Should she go to bed with every guy she meets? Probably not. Not only is that a good way to pick up all sorts of nasty diseases, but, even ~?re importantly, sexual hypera.cttvtty might cut into precious study-nme. 
Should she realize there are man 

Brian Hogan 
dimensions to sex beyond that found in marriage? Defmitely. Should she take Notre Dame officials seriously when they tell her sex belongs only in marriage? I'm not qualified to answer that question for everyone, but I have the sneaking suspicton that sexual freedom and social equality, like two 
o hand in hand. 


The Threat of Love 
I feel I owe a progress report to the 
many students who responded to an 
earlier column I wrote about a former 
Notre Dame student who is undergoing 
treatment at the Menninger clinic. 
I was able to see her again over 
Christmas. I was deeply moved by the 
change in her condition and th~ positi~e 
signs of growth. As she explamed, this 
has been a very difficult and painful 
period of her life; but she has been 
realizing a great deal about herself that 
she never appreciated before. 
As she herself put it: ''How much the support I have gotten fr~m my f~iends has touched me! I am even learmng to accept it... slowly but surely. This is something that does not, and has never, come eas!!Y for me. I ha':e never had ~oo much difficulty supportmg and lovmg others; but allowing others to do the same for me was qwte a different story. I am seeing now that I w~ really cheating people out of something_ they chose to do. I still have a lot of difficulty with it, but I am working on it." 
I have been haunted by her words ever since our visit. Why is it we have such difficulty accepting love? Well, for o~e thing, there is .something _very self-satts­fying about domg something for another person. We may be inclined to be more comfortable saymg, "You're welcome" than "Thank you." We would rather possess another's gratitude than have to admit, through humble thanks, how much we needed the love someone gave us. 
In support of this, we may quote the old saymg, "It is more blessed .to give than to receive." But, in so domg, we may forget that the saying wo~ks both ways. If it's more blessed to gtve than receive, then it would behoove us frequently to allow others to do the more blessed thing to us. 
If we really knew the truth about ourselves, we would rejoice that others gift us with their concern and love; we would gladly recognize our many de~ts to others--for life, love, support, healmg and sustenance. 
There is, however, a more subtle reason why it is hard for many of us. to accept gifts of love from others. ~g~n, it may be a truth problem; but this tune not that we think too much of ourselves, but too little. We may simply not believe we are worthy of being favored by others. Like my friend at Menninge(s, despite many attempts at healmg touches, some people still are going to go on feeling like lepers. 
It is possible for us to be threatened by experiences that call for thanks: They can simJ>lY intensify our feeltngs of unworthmess. When someone holds herself in such low esteem, e':en a momentary tendernesss can cause t~­iation and pain. Itmakes her feel gutlty. She believes she does not deserve to be loved or favored. Consequently, when it haf>pens, it's like salt in an open wound; 
Fr. Bill Toohey 

and there is a tendency to lash out at the 
person inflicting the hurt. 
We remember the girl in I Never 
Promised You a Rose Garden; and the 
dramatiac scene in Who's Afraid of 
Virginia Woolf? when Martha attacks 
her husband. She explains that she 
strikes out at him because, "He can 
make me happy and I do not wish to be 
happy. And, yes, I do wish to be 
happy ... and he has made the hideous, 
the hurting, the insulting mistake. ~f 
loving me and must be puntshed for tt. 
There is a fmal reason why accepting 
love can be such a problem. It's just 
downright frightening for many persons. 
To be loved means becomin~ vulner­
able, allowing soMeone else mto your 
life; and that's always ri~ky. Even t~ose 
dedicated to the helpmg professtons 
(priests, doctors, counselors, teachers, 
social workers) have difficulties here. 
I have known many priests, for example, who are quite comfortable as dispensers of services. They very con scientiously offer many acts of care and concern to others. But they never permit any reciprocity; they fend off people who attempt to respond with love of their own; they rule out all efforts of anyone else to enter deep within. 
There is a great danger in this one-way-street approach. Those who are content to love but not w be loved in return may find their love terminating at an abstraction instead of concrete indivi­duals. For there is no way one can follow Jesus' way of loving without seeking to evoke a response of love from each r>erson loved m the name of Christ. This demands a willingness to accept love as well as to give it. 
Many of us are afrai~ of being lov~d because it demands nsk and entatls danger. A thousand seminary walls have echoed with the words, "Whatever you do, men, don't let yourselves get emotionally involved! '' And yet the refusal ro become emotionally involved with one's people, as Je.sus w~, absolutely guarantees an meffecuve ministry. 
The challenge is profound ... in what­ever way each of us is called to follow the life-style of Jesus. He sou~ht ~o establish a deeply personal relauonshtp with all He met; He literally proposed a relationship of love. But Hts was the fully mature acceptance ofbeing loved in return: He did not elicit a self-serving or erotic response, and always channe~ed the response to His Father, whose lovtng presence He had come to manifest. 
Not an easy act to follow. But well worth strugglmg and praying for. 

Features Ed. Pontificates 
Bonjour. A new c?lum~, H_eroes Anonymous, will premter t~ts Fnday. This column will hopefully unmortal~ze reticent humans of the ND commumty whose significant contributions to university life are largely unheralded. 
My creative writers' talent search contmues. All closet saunsts, mis­understood mimes and gregarious bathroom graffitti · artists are encour­aged to parlay their talents for the Features Ed. Brooding intellectuals and cultural elitists also welcome. No experience necessary. Call 7471, 3748. God will be tickled if you do. 



The Observer Tuesday, January 23, 1979.-page 6 


CHICAGO TRIBUNE smc home Oet•veRy cau cet1a 4-1-4377 OR ann 4-1-4369 (campus R€PS )  

CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS Applications and guidelines for the second semester Student Govt. Budget Hearings can be picked up in the Treasurer's office 2nd floor l~a~F~o~r~tu;nijjii~~~on Wed., Jan.24  






Music dept. receives approval 
The National Association of Isabel Charles, dean of the administration to develop a Schools of Music has approved College ofArts and Letters, and viable music program.'' an application for associate William Cerny, music chair­Study areas approved by the membership by the Department man, also noted "the oppor­prestigious national group in­of Music at the University of tunity to collaborate with one of clude the bachelor of arts in Notre ·Dame. Accrediation by the country's finest programs in music and the master of music the group follows a visitor's liturgy and church-related in performance and literature; report acclaiming Notre Dame areas, a close working relation­music and liturgy. Plan appro­for having "excellent leader­ship with the South Bend val was also granted for the ship, a dedicated and compe­Symphony, proximity to the master of arts in music history; tent faculty, and a highly cultural, instructional and lib­liturgical music, and the master qualified student body.'' rary resources of Chicago, and in music education; compo­
The report, received by Dr. a firm .committment by the sition and theory. 
~ . ~ Ac•oss 21. Separate DOWN
~------------------------~ 
28. Heap
c 
1. lmpaaaiv~ 29. Rabbit fur

I I 
7. Steal: alang 31. Popular card 1...........
R 12. Compaaaion-lf&Die 2. Uproar ate S.C. Beautiful 3. Sldpover 
13. W!'"'hipa l(arden 4. Youth

I NOTRE DAME STUDENTS I 0 
s 
16. 
Amo"lf 35. Dowdy 6. Popular and 

16. Adieu 36. Clo11e to fashionable: 

s 
18. 
Plaee 37. Small child alaq 


19. Christmas 38. Vata 6. Fail to fulfill


I SENDIN . I 
w 
"visitor" 39. Eccentric an obligation 
20. 
Victory sym. per110n: slang 7. Fete bol 40. Cosmoa 8. Thoupt 

21. 
Spanish ''the" 42. Entryway 9. P...,..ntly


0

I YOUR BALLOTS! I 
R 
22. Scrutinize 43. •'elt 110rry for 10. Fiasurea 
23. Eat elegantly 44. London's 11. Montana city

I I 
24. Dignified river 14. Slumber

I STUDENTS SEE MORE MOVIES I 
26. Sum up. as 46. Sordid 17. Sincu wn.
D 
news 47. Mute Iiams


I 1HAN ANYONE ELSE! I 
19. Severe 
22. 
Stubborn apot 

23. 
Poatponement




I MAKE YOUR OPINIONS KNOWN TO I 
25. Craving for food

1 1 
s mE MOVIE INDUSTRY! 
26. Skatinr 
arenaa 
28. Small bundla

I Join the Filmmakers of Tomorrow in Saluting the Filmakers of Today I 
29. Ceaaation

Schools submitting over 100 ballots will be eligible for a drawing to win a I
I 
30. Aphrodlte'a
brand new Pinball Machine for their Student Activities Center 
love 
31. 
TiM 

32. 
Make leaa lu





I ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • I 
33. Bear witneu 
(to)

1 Official Ballot 
36. Late 38. Sw11m1

II= =I"STUDENT'S CHOICE AWARDS" 
39. "Moniker" 
41. 
Bywayof 

42. 
Lau:alaq



I I Best Motion Picture 1978 II I 
46. Cuual Jlftet­
i"lr

I I Best Perforrnanc2 by an Actor 1978 I I 
I I IBest Performance by an Actress 1978 • 

I I• I• I
• Best Director 1978 


Yesterday's

I ~ ~;::t0:n:0:a~~hyo;~bruary 15th, 1979 to: I I I • FOCUS: Student's Choice Awards 1I I •• 1140 Avenue of the Americas 1 I
I New York, New York 10036 

Answers

I • The Student's Choice Awards are presented in association with the FOCUS '79 Com-1 I
• 1 I
petition, sponsored by NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION IN U.S.A. -in cooperationI • with Playboy Magazine, Universal Studios, U.S. Tobacco, Allan Carr and The Los I \ • Angeles Marriott Hotel. I I 
~...............................~ 
DOONESBURV by Garry Trudeau 

I HAVEN'TGOT (](AY, OKAY,
8R£NNEJ?.! 
HI, 01//(E. 
IT'S Me, 
fA/HERe }()() 

~! JIJST SHII<TCW! IS
Ol/1\13! 
CAti..ING 

\ 
GO GeT MY PICK-SOMETHING FROM? 
UP ANP GET 7He fAIRIJNG, HW. fKJMNHE/?e! [)()X&? 

Michael ..ll•ell 

The Observer 
Tuesday, January 23, 1979 -page 7 








Women cagers down V alpo 
by MarJ. Hannulsela the 14:1 ~ mark of the first half scored by the Wolves w~re theSports Wn'ter as Notre Dame built and 8-2 most ever given up in a single
lead. The Irish steadily 
game by an Irish team. littleAssistant Coach Bob Scott widened their lead, and put the used Abby Currier led the wayand Head Coach Sharon Petro game away with a strong out­for UM with a game high 33seemed to agree that the key to burst at the end of the farst, and points and 20 rebounds. Thelast night's win by the women's the beginning of the second only other Michigan player in basketball team was the atti­period. A basket by Valpo's double figures was Diane Dietz, tude of the Notre Dame girls. Mary Ellen Volansky cut the who scored 18.
"We were hoping that there Notre Dame lead to 21-1 ~ at the Notre Dame placed fivewould not be a letdown after the 3:47 mark of the farst half. 
players in double figures.
Mighigan loss," said Scott. Seven minutes, fifty seconds, Tricia McManus paced the Irish 
"The/irls came right out and and twenty unanswered Irish with 16 points, followed byplaye really well. The only points later, Carole Pollitz 
Politiski and co-captain Mollydissappointment was the last made the score 41-17. Valpo Cashman with 13, and the Lally seven minutes.'' came no closer than the final sisters (Carol and Maggi~). whomargin. 
each had 11. Jan Schlaff scored Those seven minutes saw a 
Jane Politiski led the way for 
the other two Irish points. TheH-29 Notre Dame lead dwindle 
the Irish with 13 points and 11 
loss snapped a seven-gameto a final score of ~7-43, as the 
rebounds. Sophomore Maggie 
Notre Dame winning streak. 
Irish beat Valparaiso for the 
Lally added ten points. Politz 
Two weeks ago, the girls took third time this season. Yet 
led Valpo with 10 points scored 
AP Top 20 

For the farst time in its The Top 20 teams In tOO Associated Press' college basketbal' potl, wlth
history, the Notre Dame basket­
first-place votes In parent'1eses, season

ball team was selected the top records and total points.team in the nation for the second straight week in the Associated 1. Notrt Dame (41H1·1 1,1110
2. North Carolina 14-2 1,00.~

Press top twenty. 
3. Indiana State 12 16-0 93:i

The Irish, sporting a 11-1 record 
4. Michigan St. 11-3 892

for the season, collected 49 of ~8 5. Louisville 15-3 79F farst-place votes, easily out­6. UCLA 12·3 79' distancing runner-up North 7. Duke 12-3 77'<: 
8. Illinois 16-2 7-t>

Carolina. 
9. Louisiana State 13-2 7()!.;

The only other time the Irish 10. Ohio State 11-4 55·, held the number-one rankinJt was 11. Georgetown. D.C. 14-2 54:' in 1974, after defeating Ua.A., 12. Syracuse 14-2 follb 
13. Marauette 13-2 505

71-70, onJanuary 19, luilting the 
14. Texas A&M 15-3 15!1 

Bruins 88-~e winning streak. 
15. Arkansas 11·3 t'B:'

But Ua.A. dropped Notre Dame 16. Temple 13-1 :vn from the top spot by defeating 17. Texas 11-4 J 
18. Alabama 11-t 1.!2

the Irish a week later in Los 
19. Vanderbilt 12·2 116

Angeles, 94-7~. 
20. N. Carolina St. 11-6 110 

part in the Northern Illinois
those seven minutes· could not boards. 
Tournament. Mter a con­
West German police guard
deter from the awesome per­Saturday, at Crisler Arena in 
vincing opening round win over
formance that the girls put on in Ann .Arbot, the University of 
Upper Iowa, 71-49, the team
the ftrst 33 minutes. 

against possible sabotage 
Michigan used a front line that 
had to take on the host
Valpo missed their ftrst eight measured 6'0, 6'0, 6'2 to down 
Northern Illinois team. By far
shots, and did not score until BONN, West Germany (A.PI­education office in Duessddorf
the Irish 93-66. The 93 points 
the most exciting of their three 
West German police guarded TV said 1~~.000 copies of back­
games, the Irish fought from a 
transmitters against possible ground material on the series
ten-point farst half deficit to a 
sabotage of the first telecast last sold out a week before the show. 
48-48 tie with 3:52 left on the 
night of the movie "Holocaust," The NBC-TV production, for
Aleksinas leaves Kentucky 
clock. The girls then managed 
which deals with Nazi persecut­which West German television
to forge into a 62-~8 lead. NIU 
ion of the]ews. paid about $600,000, is scheduledLEXINGTON* Ky. [AP)-­third behind-guard Kyle Macy scored with :41 left to pull ''This is the hardest subject for for four two-hour, installmentsChuck AJeksmas, a· 6-toot-10 and Williams. He averaged 11.5 within 62-60. With :11 remain­a German to deal with,'' said beginning at 9 p.m. on last2~0-pound sophomore center points ~r game, in~luding a ing, Carola Commings just beat Edith Kt:ller, a native German Tuesday, Thursday and Fridayfrom Morris, Conn., apparently c~eer-high 20 points 10 a 94-87 the thirty second clock with a and a U.S. Embassy media this week.
quit the University of Kentucky victory over Syracuse 10 the jumper that missed the mark. 
specialist. She said the moviebasketball team Sunday, when he University of Kentucky NIU brou~ht the ball up the had received "enormous" attent­failed to appear for practice. Invitational Tournament. floor, and With time running out· ion in the West German media as 
Soph Arts

His departure, the second by a "We regret Chuck's decision attempted a shot from the it did when shown in the UnitedWildcat this season, left a con­to leave," Hall said. "I don't 'corner. Tricia McManus play­States last year. 
siderable hole in Coach Joe think it's in his best interest, nor ing with four fouls, leadped, Committee
Chancellor Helmut Schmidt,Hall's lineup and came at a time is it in the best interest of the and ala Orlando Woolridge, who served as an anti-arcraft
when the struggling team ap­meets
team. swatted the shot to the other lieutenant in World War II,pears in danger of its first losing ''I felt he was improving and end of the floor, sealing the r,lanned to watch the movie, The Sophomore Literary Artsseason since 1927. he would have been a help to us, Irish victory. Notre Dame then 'time permitting,'' a chancellery Committee will meet tooight atWithout AJeksinas, Kentucky's especially by tournament time. defeated Chicago State, 78-~~. 
spokesman told The Associated 7 p.m. in the laFonune Ball­tallest playersare 6-8 sophomore I'm sorry he feels he has to make to take the title. 
Press. room.
Fred Cowan, 6-7 junior LaVon this move at this time, but we The leading scorer for the 
Williams and 6-6 freshmen certainly wish him well." Irish throughout the tourna­Chief Federal Prosecutor Kurt 
Chuck Verderber and Clarence AJeksinas had struggled to get ment was CarolLally, who had Rebmann said police suspected 
Tillman. into playi_ng condition this sea­47 points. Molly Cashman was neo-Nazis were responsible for 
Equipment

"I haven't been able to contact son, arnvmg overwc;ight for pr~­next with 29. The leading last Thursday's bombing of a 
Chuck, but I understand he season practice. A varus attack 10 rebounder was Politiski, who transmitter near Koblenz that 
dido' t feel he wasJetting enough December caused him to lose garnered 23 caroms. cancelled transmission of a due for playingtime," sai Hall. "I had weight, which improved his The next action for the Irish documentary on death camps. 
no inkling that Chuck would leave quickness, but also sapped his will be tomorrow, when they "We are still getting threats football 
the squad. He told ~ane Casey strength. travel to Ft. Wayne to take on constantly,'' said a West German 
and others he was go10g to quit AJeksinas' departure follows IUPU. Then on Saturday the television source who asked not Tonight is the deadline for 
the team. lk got up [Sun~y that of Tim Stephens, a 6-3 junior 27, they will travel across the to be identified. Official spokes­interhall football players to re­
morning)ready to go to practice, from Revelo, KY., who highway to do battle with men denied any threats. turn equipment. Anyone not 
but then said he was going to transferred to Cumberland arch-rival Saint Mary's. In the "I expect everybody will be returning the equipment to Gate 
leave." College following Kentucky's ftrst meeting between the two watching the fiCSt show at least 11 of the football stadium by 6:30 
AJeksinas had played 366 mi­December 30 victory over Notre squads, Notre Dame was victor­just to see what it's all about,'' p.m. will be charged the cost of 
nutes in 13 games this season, the equipment. 
Uame. ious by a 71-~4 count. said Mrs. Keller. The state 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday. 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All 
cla~sifieds must. be pre·paid. either in person or through the ma11.




Classifieds 
Notices 
Fast, accurate typing at home. Call 272-7866 after 5 pm. Close by. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Bedford. 288-2107. Hours: 8 am to 5 pm. 
Experienced typist will do all types of typing. Call 272-1401. 
SKI -Lessons now forming for all Interested ND-SMC students. For lnfo­mation call Bob Ballard 272-n49. 
ATTENTION ALL LOGAN VOLUN, TEERS AND INTERESTED STUDENTS. 
The first Logan dance of the semester will be held this Friday night from 7:30-10:00 pm In the LOgan Center cafeteria. Come for an hour or two and help the mentally handicapped have a great tli1181 Put on your dancln' shoes · and join In on the fun. Live mustc and refreshments for everyone! Questions call Mike at 1371 or Sue 41-4832. 
Decorations help needed for Logan dance this weekend I Decoration making party wlll be held Thursday, January 25th, at 7:00pm at Logan Center. Questions call Mike or SUe. 
Uke to bowl? Help the mentally handicapped In their bowling league Fridays from 3:20-6:00 pm. Rldelleave ND·Ubrary Circle at 3:20pm. Quatlons call Mike or Sue, 1371 or 41-4&12. 
================================~ 

Lost&Found 
N D class ring found at Indian Creek Service Plaza on the Ohio Turnpike. Cal 1050 to Identity. 
FOUND I Retainer on sidewalk In front of Breen-Phllllps. To claim, call 7401. 
Lost before X-mas break: a pair of woman's glasses In whitish case with blue, orange and brown flower design and gold clasp. If found please contact Usa at 1345. 
Can anyone help me find my green army jacket which walked away from Satur­day's Morrissey party? 3610. 
LOST: Room keys 1405 with padlock attached. 7912. 
Lost wallet In Blo Bldg. Keep money but I need the rest. Phone: 7912. 
For Rent 
2 rooms together. $45.00 • near rides. 233-1329. 

Wanted 
Urgent! Need ride to DC weekend of Maryland game. Willshire driving and expt~nses. Help! NlnCy 8786. 
WANTED: Female roommate Campus View Apartments. $90-month. Call Joan at 283-7989. 
PART TIME SALES AND MERCHAN1 DISING OPPORTUNITY: Looking for an opportunity to earn extra money while learning sales skills? This opportunity may be Ideally suited for you. 
Well known consumer product manu­facturer with a wide variety of name brand confectlonary products fs seeking a candidate who .viii work 1G-15 hours per week contacting on-campus and near campus retail outlets. 
Please express your interest by calling collect 313-761-4476 after 5:30. We are an EOM manufacturer. 
WANTED: view appts.  Femal roommate $90-month. Call 2n-5261.  -Campus  
WANTED:  Male  roommate.  Campus  

View Apt. Call 272-2160. 

For Sale 
Big, great speakers for sale, call Bernie 3322 or 3321. 

Tickets 
University of Dayton vs. Notre Dame balketbafl • 2 GA's needed. Will pay cash or trade lludent tickets for other games. cal11840. 
Need 3 tlx for Dayton game. Call Cindy 5762. Desperately need! II 
Need 2 or 3 GA tlx to the Dayton B-ball game on Feb. 3. Call Mike, 3889. 
Desperately need Dayton BB tickets ­student or GA. Will pay good money. Call Larry 1205. 
Desperatelyneed 1student B-ball ticket. Will Pay$$$. Call Jim. 2n-4617. 
Need 1 student or GA ticket for UCLA. Call7409. 
1need any UCLA tlx. Call 41-4908. 

Personals 
The ADONIS, NO's elite DJ,Is back. this Thurs 9-11 pm on WSND-640. It's "London Night," celebrating his return from jolly old England. Be there--Win an "Adonis Is Upon Us" T-shtrt. 
Tune In to WSND-AM tonight at 11 pmand relive all those fond memories of when you were young. I'll take you back through time to the slxtlas and late tittles 
• with the mualc that was popular durtm that time. That's "llatafrwn till Piit."" wlallllatJIIJ..llllilllltlt 11pe.AM-.wstiD. 
The 911 Club and Section 9-0 Grace wishes to thank those who made last Friday's "BIIuard Blitz" agreat success. Stay tuned for further adventures... 
Judith, 
Von  Arlstotles bls Zuerich lch Iiebe  
dlch.  
an Admirer  

Want to show off your talent? Jl you can sing, dance, act or fake It well, do so at Mardi Gras. Contact Ken at 2111J-8657 for Info. 
Mardi Gras workers -don't forget the SUARE Tuesday at 8:30 In the SMC clubhouse. 
Nlncl· 
Happy 22nd to the Sch01ppa Quaanl 
lm, Llggo, Lilli, MI,..Ay, LDwry, Sbllllr, ~ Silly, Soupy, Br111o, Miff, Klbl II1CI Singer. 
Mandatory meeting for Saint Mary's Oblervlr reporters Wed. Jan. 24 at 6:30 basement of Regina South. All other Interested persons ENCOURAGED to attend. 

-

. • 

-.:..:..._ .. .": 
I. 
~ 
Tuesday, January 23, 1979 -page 8 


Starting forward for }(picks 


Knight blosson1s in New York 
by Tony Pace needed some more offense from players who come from the Notre Editor-in-Chief me. I took more shots and I was Dame basketball program are pretty hot." well-regarded. "Digger plays 
NEW YORK -''And starting Knight's insertion to the start­the best schedule in the coun­at the other forward, number 43, ing lineup coincided with Red try," he said, "he's a great Toby Knight," the voice ofJohn Holzman's return to the sidelines teacher and his players are very Condon announces to the basket­as the Knick coach. Holzman team-oriented. Anybody who ball fans at Madison Square replaced former Knick star Willis comes from Notre Dame iS well­Garden. Reed, who was dismissed after rounded. They're bright kids." 
Yes, that is the same Toby several disagreements with Gar­Both Holzman and Donovan Knight who graduated from den management. think Knight will enjoy a long Notre Dame in May of 1977. The Holzman, who has always NBA career. ''Many other teams same Toby Knight who played stressed defense, put Knight into have expressed interest in the important role of sixth man in the Knick's starting lineup Toby," Donovan said. "He the 1976-77 basketball season. because of his defensive prow­needs to build his confidence in Indeed, the same Toby Knight ess. "Toby is a good defensive his shot. If he goes one-for-four who does not even rank among player," Holzman said, "but you he often hesitates before taking the top 20 leading career scorers don't sacrifice offense when you another shot. But this confidence for the Irish. start him because he has a good only comes with time.'' 
Now Toby Knight is not only shot too, and he will score for "Toby is aJ.ood, solid player,'' 
1.-,,

starting for the New York Knicks, you. Holzman sai . "He needs more but he is also scoring more than According to Knight, the credit concentration and patience, but he ever did during his collegiate for his defensive skills go to he's only a second-year players. career. Although his scoring Notre Dame basketball coach. He'll improve with experience." average is currently hovering Digger Phelps. ''Digger and I Knight has been constantly about the 15-points-per-game had our share of disagreements working on improving his game mark, Knight has had many when I was P.laying at Notre since entering the pro ranks. 20-points-plus games since being Dame, but I will give him credit ''I've tried to improve every permanently inserted into the for the fact that he taught me how aspect of my game," he said. starting lineup in mid-November. to play defense. That's why I'm ''One of the most difficult adjust­His best offensive showing was a starting." ments I've had to make has been sterling 43-point performance on Although Knight stands 6-9, mental. The NBA schedule is December 9 against the Chicago he plays the small forward posi­much longer and much more Bulls. tion for the Knicks, one that demanding than the college sche­A familiar face to Notre Dame fans is Toby Knight [center] who Knight plays down that game. matches him against such NBA dule. It's hard to be mentally has emergedas the starting forward for the New York Knicks. "We had some guys hurt, especi­stars as John Drew, Larry Kenon, ready for each game." · [Photo by Sue Pace.] ally Bob MacAdoo, so the team Adrian Dantley, another former Another major difference 
Notre Dame player, and Marques Knight sees between the co~ege 
Johnson. Knick general manager and pro games is the fans. 
Eddie Donovan believes that "College fans in general, and Knight fills this role well. Notre Dame fans in particular, 
' 'Other players Toby's size might are much more loyal than pro have difficulty playing the small fans. Notre Dame fans are the forward position because they most loyal fans I've seen. 

Heroes and antiheroes of 1978 
The year of 1978 reached a high nQte for Notre lack quickness. Toby has quick­College basketball is also muchDame fans on just its second day. 1be powerful ness and he always has good more personal. Students see you
Irish held the Heisman winner, Earl Campbell to 116 m~aningless yards in the Cotton Bowl vic~ory 
Mike defensive position." in classes and on campus as well 
The Knicks selected Knight as on the basketball court." 

that clmched the national championship for the with one of their two second­Knight is contemplating bothawesome Big Green Machine. 
Henry 
round picks in the June, 1977 law and communications as post­Very few NFL teams were able to rope the big draft, even though his college basketball careers. "I was anbull from Tyler, Texas. His spectacular entry into 

the league, which carried the Houston Oilers to the tribute to the dedication and effort displayed after statistics were not overwhelm­American Studies major," he 
ing. ''We always draft the best said, "and I'm thinking of either 

brink of the Super Bowl, enabled him to gain two opening losses. numerous awards befitting his status as one of the Digger Phelps, meanwhile, knows he has the player available,'' explained going to law school or entering star performers of the past twelve months. And best fi'i -~, sev~n-man, or twelve-~an basket­Donovan, "and at that time Toby the communications program at ~1 ~as that rare~t ofsporting gems: shunting the ball team n the Uruted States. M~st rmportantly, was the best player. Don't forget Syracuse after I stop playing." hme!tght, prefernng to foc1:1s it elsewhere by the play~rsregard the~selves as bemg forc:most m that he had played behind both By the time that day fmally crediting his teammates, coaches, and his mama the nation. No team is as deep as the Insh, and Adrian Dantley and John Shu­arrives, John Condon and public for much of his success. A refreshing contrast to only a Campy Russe~-type performanc~ can be~t mate while he was at Notre address announcers in other NBA 1976's Heisman braggadocio, Tony Dorsett. t~ese cagers. Defenstye dre~dnought B~ll Hanzl~k Dame.'' will have mentioned the
arenas Others distinguished themselves this past wtll be mstrumental m seemg that this doesn t Donovan went on to state that name Toby Knight many times. annum with the grace and humble manner of happen. · h · h d th · . 
Campbell as well as by their marvelous accom-~e .Ins tcers s .ocke . e W~~ wtth. thetr plishmen~s. The Yankees' slender southpaw, Ron ~hirl~nd start by displaymg a SP!flt and flarr not Guidry, was the eye of the Bronx storm that m evtdence Jast year. The e~enence of playe~s 

Johnson leaves ND 

brewed until Billy Martinfulfilled his death wish in Steve Schnetder, Greg Mer~dith .and Ted W~ltzm 'd n Gw'dry' kl thr hit trik served to balance the mfecttous enthusiasm 
rru -seaso . s wee y ee-12-s e-di 1 d b hful ka lik Da p ul' d
out performance was viewed as nothing' more than sp aye Yyout s te!s e . ve o m ~ 

to coach Sooners 

a leasant diversion from the turmoil created by JeffLogan. f\nd ~epreca~rush goalte J:?ave l.aurion Bihy Martin and Reggie Jackson and the Red Sox h~ be~n ma~tcal m atonmg. for defensive letdowns 
vacant when Don Duncan runaway pace that seemed to insure a divisional Wl~ his spht-second reactions around the 8oal.. accepted the head coaching job at cro~ before the seas~>n concluded. ~1th luck, they can go a long way towards taking 1t Iowa State last week. 
''We are fortunate to hire one ofLike Cam,pbell, Gwdry never asked for head-T d fi th 

lines, but mstead created them through his wo goa~s emerge. rom. e 1978 pantheon. the top assistants from one of the virtuosos performances on the field. His name Pete ~ose s complamt~ armed to~~ds Gene top programs in the U.S." must be placed besides those ofKoufax and Grove, Garber .s efforts to, end his 41-game hittm~ ~tre~ Switzer said. the only lefties to have campaigns even barely contradi~ted Rose s <;>wn philosophy of gtvmg tt Switzer said J 6hnson, who has comparable to the Cajun Comet. yo~ ult~te at .a!l.tm:tes. .And let .us. not ~orget been a personal friend fm: 20 
Another athlete exuded the style and class !Vfike .Schmidt potstttorung himself ~thi~ w~sper­years, has experience at coaching possessed by the Earl of Houston and Louisiana mg distance of lef~elder Gre~ Luz1!lski ~ce to both offenstve and defensive Lightning. Nanc ~ez with the beautificsmile ~low Rose to keep his streak altve twtce wtth bunt units.
-. Y ' d · smgles "His knowledge of the passing
that belted her mour eyes, ;an_ra!;te tttentton to . · . . . the women's golf circuit from all corners. Despite Fmally, how can Gtant 9uarterba~kjoe Pt~arcik game will add a new dimension to the relentless demands laced upon her by an sleep p~acefully after c<;>stmg offenstve coordinator our offensive thinking,' 'Switzer 
NORMAN, Okla. [APJ-Mervin

. di h h · · · Bob Gtbson [and ulumatelv head coach John said. 
unfee1mg me . a, er c armmg manner, ~onststmg M Va )their 'obs?A straight handoff is a la h Johnson, assistant football coach Johnson graduated from the
of a broad grm and gentle wave, never faded. cruJ' d 1 h uld P Yt at at Notre Dame the past two 
Perhaps her nerves became frayed after each Cso an Jersey Joe ~ 0 have been able to· years, has been hired as an University of Missouri. H.: was 
· d dul · execute. Bestdes,Ptsarctkcould have changed the .~All-Big Eight tackle wit~ t~e 
tournament success brought contmue a atton, all · th h ddl dl d th ball d fall h assistant at the University of Ttgers, served as team captam m
but Nancy was a j?y--more than t~t, a frie_nd--to ~10 e u e, era e e 'an en tot e Oklahoma as offensive line 1957 and received the Big Eight 
her swellmg gallenes. Only once m 1978 did she =·================ coach. outstanding student athlete
disappoint one star-struck admirer--her marriage Johnson, 42, has served the past award as a senior. 
to a Pittsburgh sportscaster two days after two years as assistant head coach In addition to his tenure with
Irish number
Christmas. under Dan Devine at Notre Devine at Notre Dame, JohnsonThe past year saw Notre Dame athletic squads Dame.
• coached with Devine at the
excel while offering greater promise for the future. Oklahoma Head Football Coach University of Missouri and with Dan Devine-coached teams are not noted for their one agazn Barry Switzer said Johnson's Frank Broyles at Arkansas.
appointment is temporary untilquick ~etaways, and this year's outfit was not He began coaching in 1958 as anthe university's boaro of regents

exceptton. A miraculous comeback victory against assistant at Arkansas. Switzer
gives its aperoval. .

Houston left much doubt as to how good ND really played on that team in the center­
--page 7 
Johnson will fill.the position left 

was [~ixth in the nation seems generous but is a linebacker spot. . 








