r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ ~--~-----------------------­
. . . Class elections -p. 3 


SMCBoard 
discusses endorsements 
by Ma~ie Brassil StaffReporter 
Controversy arose last night 
over the right of college organ­
izations to endorse ca:mpai~n 
tickets at a meetin_g of the Satnt 
Mary's Board of Governance. 
No policy exists at present 
concerning the right of these 
groups to endorse candidates 
runnmg for Student Govern­
ment President, Vice-President 
of Student Affairs and Vice­
President of Academic Affairs. 
Gail Darra~h, Student Gov­
ernment prestdent, announced 
at the meeting that she will be 
presenting the policy ~t the 
Student Assembly meetmg on 
Wednesday night to be voted 
u~n. If established, the policy 
wdl stipulate that no represen­
tative group on campus can 
officially endorse candtdates in 
the student government elec­
tions. 
While several individuals raised opposing opinions, the majority of the Board that responded decided that in such a small institution as Saint Mary's there was no need for individual groups to make en­dorsements and that hall and class representatives might not have the consensus of the bodies they represent. 

Those-who dissented, argued • 
[continued on page 5] 


Carterplans Mid-&st trip 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Presi­dent Carter, in a drive to wrap up a Mideast peace treaty, will fly to Egypt and Israel this week to try and clear away remaining roadblocks to a settlement. 
Egyptilln Prime Minister Mustafa Khalil said in Cairo that Caner's trip "will most likely lead to a si~ning." 
And Israeli Prune Minister Menachem Begin told members of the U.S. Congress in Wash­ington, ''Now diere is a ray of hope." Noting that Israel has accepted U.S. proposals for wrapping up a treaty, he added: 
''Let us hope Egypt will join the effort. Then if this hap­pens in a short period of time, we may have the ceremony of signing." 
Khalil told the Associated Press in a telephone interview: ''When an American president puts down all his stakes, it is natural that it has to have a positive result.'' 
White House Press Secretary J ody Po~ell s~d ?_vfonday that Carter wtll arnve m Egypt oil Thursday afternoon for talks with President Anwar Sadat and then go on to Israel on Saturday for talks with Begin. 
At this point, Powell said, there are no plans for a three way meeting among the lead­ers. The spokesman said he did not know when Carter would return to the United States. Carter's wife, Rosalynn, will accompany him. · 
Begm said he would fly home 
on Wednesday to pre.pare for 
''the memorable visit.' 
While expressin~ optimism, 
the Israeli prime mmister noted 
in an appearance before mem­
bers of the U.S. House of 
Representatives that a Middle 
East peace seemed at hand 
several times previously but 
was not achieved. 
"The world was happy and 
then came the disappoint­
ment," Begin said. 
He stressed that Israel's 
concern has been that it must 
be able to defend itself against 
other Arab countries if the 
peace does not last. 
The White House announce­
ment marked another upturn in 
peace prospects after a long 
siege of gloom. 
Egypt and Israel have been 
stalemated since November 

over future of the Palestinian . Arabs and otherissues surroun 
ding the treaty.1 Atter a senes of meetin$s 
between Carter and Begm 
beginning last Thursday, the 
U.S. mediation effort appeared to be headed toward defeat. 
But late Sunday, after. their fourth session, there was a sudden reversal. 
Carter gave Begin new U.S. proposals for breaking the deadlock. They were submitted to the Israeli cabinet, which voted yesterday to accept them. 
Begin then reported the action to Carter at a 10-minute White House meeting. Powell's announcement of the 

·presidential trip followed. The recommendations were not disclosed publicly. The Israeli cabinet vote of 9-3 with four abstentions was a sign of considerable opposition with­in the cabinet, indicating Israel made some hard concessions in accepting the proposals. The principal sticking point has been Sadat's demand, backed by the Carter admin­istration, that -a timetable be included in the treaty package for establishing Palestinian self-rule on the West Bank of the Jordan River and in Gaza. ­An informed source in J eru­salen said Israel made some movement on that demand. Another problem which the 
U.S. proposals also reportedly dealt with was the clause saying the treaty supercedes all pre­vious conflicttng agreemen~s. Sadat, backed by the Untted States, has insisted that the treaty not take precedence over Egypt's commttment to assist other Arab countries in wars of self-defense against Israel. 
The impact of the new U.S. proposals on these issues was not clear. However, American officials have stressed that not all the remaining differences are covered by the suggestions. 
[continued on page 6] 

Hilda Morley delivers 

unscheduJedrea~g 
. by Kathleen Connelly Senior StaffReporter 
. Poet ~ilda Morler g~ve an unscheduled. reading last night m the Library Audttonum when due to an error in travel arran$ements, playwright David Mamet was unable to partictpate in the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Morley began wnting at the a~e of nine but her ftrst volume of J?Oetry, A Blessing Outside Us, was just recently published tn 1976. She attended the Walden School the Haifa Realschul~, Hebrew Universtiy, University College in Londaon, and d1d post-graduate work at Wellesley Ohio State and New York University. ' 
It was while teahing at Black Mountain College that she worked with such poets as Rober Creeley, Denise-Levertov and Charles Olson, who later urged her to publish her poetry. 
Morley wrote a poem dedicated to Olson after traveling to Gouster, Scotland to iment his funeral. She said that she had been at ~dds with Olson, but that they had,made peace welJ before hts death. Te augmented· impact of his daeth is illustrated in the lines, "The night I heard that you'd died & I just beginning to see you shale ... " · 
The poem "C~arles Olson" is characteristic of the appeal to sensory expenence common to the poems read by Morley. She paints a picture of cold winter using visual images and worlds ~vocative o~ phys~cal sensation of being chilled, appropnate to the unmedtate experience of death in the poem. 
The concern with sensory experience, particularly visual [continued on page 2] 

KillingsUJorth speaks on unetnploytnent rate 
by Ann Gales Killingsworth commented 
News Editor that the understanding of un­
employment prior to 19'0 was 
Charles Killingsworth, pro­summed up well when P•esi­I I 
I
fessor ofeconomics at Michtgan dent Calvtn Coolidge said, State University, told an audi­''When a great many people I I ence of approxJmately 150 last are unable to ftnd jobs, unem­I I night in Galvin Auditorium that ployment results." 
I
the national unemployment rate Unemployment policy, ac­could be as high as ten to cording to klllingsworth, had its twelve percent a year from now, roots in the Keynesian Revolu­although he admitted this was tion of th.. mid-1930s. Classical not a ! • flat erediction. " . economists of the time had 
While th1s ftgure is much been· unable to reduce the higher than the Carter Admin­estimated 25 percent unem­istration's prediction of appro.x­ployment rate using the con­imately 6.2 percent unemploy­ventional method of cutting ment by next year, Kilhngs­wa_Bes, he said. worth said that "the fact that John Maynard Keynes re­we are entering a recesiion with jectin' classical theory. arsued a higher prosperity-level un­that ' government expenditure employment than ever before could be made the key to renders a rate as high as twelve decreasing the unemployment percent possible." level." He added that while 
Killingsworth, who has Keynes was bitterly criticized worked as an economic arbitra­by others in the economic fteld, tor and has also held posts on "there were some economists, several $overnment economic particularly in Washington, boards, ts noted for his contri­who were persuader.! by butions in the fteld of structur­Keynes." alist economic theory. In last ''Consequently, some •1f the night's lecture, entitled "The Keynesian viewpoint fillcred Development of Employment into government policy in {he policy m the U.S.over lhe past late 193Js." H wever, 50 years, putting forth the Killingsworth contend("• 1, it was proposal that "structural World War II, and not l"ynesi­change in our economy has an theory, that final: solved been an important factor in the unemploymert p•r' \em of raising unemployment in this the '30s. country.'' Economists had pt :dieted a 
''For the ftrst 150 years of our return to mass unem loyment nation's history, we did not after the war, but the anucipat­have an unemployment ed problem never mat("nalized, policy,'' Killingsworth noted, Killingsworth said. [nste~d, attributin~ tais fact to the belief the U.S. faced an ·mflatton at that ume that "having an problem ''which was the num­unemployment policy would ber one economic priority until make about as much sense as the 1950s." having a weather policy.'~ (continued on page 2J 


News in brief 
Iranian oilflowing again; executions continue 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP)-Iran st~ed ~upplying the world's hungry oil market for the first tune m 10 weeks yesterday with a shipment of crude pil bound for Japan. The Ayatol~ah Ruhollah Khomeini's revolutionary government, meanwhile, executed eight more members o~ the Shah of Iran's toppled regime. "The days when fore1g~ tankers could come to Iranian pons an~ _load ~ much oil as they wanted,, ,und~r prices and condltlons d1ctated by. them,. are over, sa~d Hassan Nazih, the new managmg director of Iran s state-owned National Iranian Oil Co. "We will expon only enough to meet our fmancial need~.'' A c?mmunique from Khomeini' s Revolutionary Commmee srud seven former officials of the shah's government, four of them generals, died by firing squad at 5 a.f!l·., early Monda~. The communique said one of Khomem1 s secret Islam1c couns had found them guilty of corruption and killing or torturing 
opponents of the shah. 


liberals attack Carter 's SALTII policy 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Caner, already facing stiff opposition to a U.S.-Soviet. arms limi.tation treao/ from conservatives, is ·now hearmg complrunts from hberals. Sens. George McGovern, D-S.D.; Mark Hatfield, R-~re.; and William Proxmire, D-Wis., said Sunday they m1ght opposea new strate~ic arms pact unless it will ''substantially cure the arms race.' The senators said the _Proposed SALT II. treaty -expected to be ready for su~miss1on to ~e ~enate later this year • may be only a dangerous dlus10n of security" that will spur, rather than control, the arms race. The warning could represent serious trouble for the treaty, which would need rwo-thirds Senate approval. However, the statement could also be seen as an attempt to offset conservative pressure on Caner. • 
Jimmy Connors marries Playboy Playmate. 
ST. LOUIS (AP)-The secret wedding of tennis star Jimmy Connors to former Playbo' Playmate Pattie McGuire was confirmed by several sources yesterday, but the usually outspoken Connors was not available for direct" comment on it. Connors, whose on-coun comments and _gestures often gethim into trouble, was "away for a rest" after his $40,000 National Indoor Tennis Championship victory over Arthur Ashe Sunday in Memphis, Tenn., a spokesman-said. McGuire has often been seen at Connors' matches around the country recently. Observers at the Memphis tournament said she obviously was several months pregnant. The auburn-haired McGuire was Playboy's Playmate of the Month in November 1976 and Playmate of the Year in 1977. 

Moviegoer is a"ested for takingcookie into theatre 
NORFOLK, Va. (AP)-Still carrying a chocolate chip coo~e .in a soggy paper bag, Kenneth Harsh entered General D1stnct Court here yesterday to face charges of refusing to surrender the snack to a theater mana~er. A theater u~her, enforcing a posted rule against taking m food or drink not purcha&ed at the theater, saw Harsh carrying the c?Okie and asked. him to give it up. But Harsh refuse<l, saymg he was savmg the cookie for his wife to eat later. So the theater management. had him arrested. Harsh also said he had been treated well by Norfolk police, who arrested him and released him on $100 bond Saturday night. 

Weather 

Mostly sunny and warmer today. Highs in the mid 40s. Fair ' and cool tonight. Lows around 30. Panly sunny and mild tomorrow. Highs around 50. 
12:15 pro--MASS, fr. roben griffin, LAFORTUNE BALL­ROOM 
1 pm--LADIES OF ND, dessen and card party, UNIV. CLUB 
4:30 pro-SEMINAR, "moral issues in treating defectiye newborns," w. david solomon, assoc. prof. philosophy nd 278 GALVIN ' ' 
8 pm--SOPH. LIT. FESTIVAL, novelist william gaddis, 
MEM. LIB. AUD. 


(continued from page 1] 
Killinssworth pointed out that durmg the 1950s and early 1960s, economists noted the development of a step-wise procession of prosperity-level unemployment durin~ the re­covery periods followms reces­sions. While prospenty-level unemployment was approxi­mately three /ercent from 1951-53, it ha climbed to about four percent· in the 1955-57 period, and had risen to five and one-half to six percent by 1962-64. 
Killingsworth said that there was widesprc:ad disagreement over the causes of this problem during the Kennedy Adminis­tration. AI that time, Killings­worth and other structuralists proposed that structural changes"in the economy had led to unemployment and could explain the observed step-wise r,rocession. However, 
'Kennedy's Council of Econ­
omic Advisors took a strong 
position that the increased un­
employment was due primarily 
to 'fiscal drag,' or a chronic 
inadequacy of aggregate 
demand caused by a faulty tax 
system." . 
According to Killingswo~h, 

the Kennedy Administration advised Congress to pass a large tax cut worth ten to rwelve billion dollars, or close to 25 billion dollars at today' s dollar 
value. · 
''For a time it seemed the tax 

cut had cured our economic 
problem, as ,unemployment· de­
creased from seven. p"ercent in 
1961 to three and a hlilf percent 
by 1969. However, a sharp 
increase to six percent in 1971 
forced a recession of theories," 
he -said. 
Killingsworth briefly sum­

marized structuralist economic 
theory, using graphs that illus­
trated the growth and decline­
trends ofvarious divisons of the 
U.S. industry from 1950 to 1974. The graphs showed that while trade, education and medical fields have been rising slowly, manufacturing has slowly declined, and agriculture has declined sharply since 1950. 
Killingsworth concluded his talk by defming what he terms "the labor market rwist." This rwist, he said, involves forces in the economy that have been working against less educated 

~~e ~~~~ve:.-; 
Wuetcher Asst. Night Editor: Pam Degnan . Copy Reader: john McGrath, Reed King Sports Layout: Beth Huffman Typists: Mardi Nevin, Tom Pipp, Pete McFadden, Rosie Rodgers EMT: Katie Breh/ Day Editor: john Ferroli Ad Layout: Barb Pratt, joe Murpqy Photographer: Ron Szot [Happy Birthday, Steve]. 
The Observer !USPS 598 9201 is published Monday through Friday ex· capt during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Oame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per 

·semester! from The Observer. P.O. box 
0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Tuesday, March 6, 1979 -page 2 
• • • Killingsworth 

workers, and 1n favor of Killingsworth will deliver an­workers with more extensive other lecture on ''Employmenteducations. Policy in the Next Decade," ''The result has been a tomorrow at 4 _p.m. in the shrinkinB of employment op­Hayes-Healy Auditorium. To­portunities for the less edu­morrow's lecture will focus on cated and less skilled, accom­the instruments of employment
panied by a tremendous in­policy and the integration of crease in the employment unemployment policy with opponunities for more edu­inflation policy. cated, better skilled workers.'' 

-...Morley 

[continued from page 1] experience, stems in pan from her first marriage to abstract pa1nter Eugene Morley. " ....it was largely through Eugene Morley that I entered the world ofvisual an, a world which as it turned out, was also of great imponance to Stefan W olpe in his development as an anist.'' Stefan Wolpe was mOrley's second husband. A composer, Wolpe appears to have given Morley a heightened awareness • of audible music and the soundless harmonies of the world around her. "My husband was a comJ?OSer-that's why I speak of the sounds inside him," she sa1d. Wolpe himself is the subject of many of thepoems·read by Morley last night. Considerin the poems in chronological order, proceeding those written near the time of Wolpe's death to the J?resent, there is initially a deep sorrow and sense of disonentation expressed by the author. Later on, the tone changes to one of wistful reflection and, in still ater poems, to fond remembrance such as in a poem which recently appeared in Hudson Magazine, ''Who brought me a red rose that night because I said on the phone, rose petals, that's what I want." ~pproximately 100 persons attended the one hour reading wh1ch was punctuated frequetnly by applause. Morley is scheduled to hold a workshop and reading on Friday at 1:15 
p.m. in the Library Lounge. 
Morley commented on her husband's passing sayins, "The experience of death we can't co.Pe with really." Yet m one ofher poems she staes, "Ifthere 1s an angel ofdeath, and I believe there is, then I can wrestle with hem. What more is there to do?" 
Morley "derives," as she says, many of her poems from books or paintings. Two poems inspired by the "Red Studio" and "The Piano Lesson" by Matisse emphasize the experience, creation and definition of space by the anist, as shown in a line from the lattec work, "Space " the grey suggesting depth, little distance." 
Another poem which was written after Morley read a biography of Joan of Arc by Anatole France deals with contradictions in life. Morley recognized that the author of the biography struggled with his rationality in writing the work, because he found it difficult to believe in Joan of Arc's mystic experiences, yet admired and adored the girl. "I live in contradictions also ...,'' Morley said. 
She also wrote a poem after reading a biography of the painter Cezanne. "He is one of my heroes probably because he talked to little, but everyting he said was so imponant and 
pithy." 

Judicial Council to hold 
. 
. 


meettng 
There will be a mandatory meeting of Judicial Council members tonight at 7 p.m. m room 2•0 of Lifonune. 
Interviews of candidates and 

election of a new Judicial 
Coordinator will take place at 
this meeting. 
ARmANDO'S 
BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 1437,N.Ironwood Dr South Bend 277-0615 



Sue, Ruthie, Kim 
Armando· stylist 
mon-fri 8-5:30 sat 8·2 by appt. only )~at ..no -appt. needed 
~ND  SPRING'S AWAKENING  
SMC  A CHILDHOOD TRAGEDY  
THEATRE  BY Frank Wedekind,  

March 2,3,7,8,9,& 10 8:00pm 



O'Laughlin Auditorium tickets $2.50 

.------------------~~~--~~-~ 
The Observer Tuesday, March 6, 1979 -page 3 
In class elections 




Candidates reveal platforms 

by Diane Wilson News Editor 
Undergraduates will have the opportumty to vote for class officers today in t!1e first day of elections. Ballo.ing will take place from 11:30 to 1 p.m. and 5 to 6 p.m. for on campus residents in their re"pective halls and from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Huddle for off-campus residents. 
For classes where there are more than two tickets running, a run-off will be held Thursday to determine the winner from the top two. 
The class of 1980 has two tickets running. The ticket of Mark Carney, Mike Mitchell, Beth Jones, and Tara Begley views the responsibilities of class officers as being three­fold: ''The officers have a commitment to uphold all those events traditional to the senior year, ... Secondly, the officers are responsible for seeing that class members have a proper outlet through which to express ideas, problems and griev­ances... Finally the officers must propose and be open to realisuc additions to the senior year. '' Through these ideas the Carney plans to expand upon traditional events, improve the quality of off-campus life, and make new additons to the senior year. 
The second ticket for the class of '80 includes Nick Schneeman, Mary Reppa, Bob Carey, and Tom Crotty. Their platform consists of proposals to make the class' senior year "a great year." Some of their ideas include developing a Senior Advisory Council and strengtheni~g ties with an effecuvr Off-Campus Council, both to be done Immediately. Next fall's plans include many 
social events as well as incceas­
ing the use of Notre Dame's 
Leg~) Council. Winter and 
spring plans include more 
social events and a storage 
program for off-campus stereos 
and televisions over break and 
graduation. 
The class of '81 is being represented by five tickets. Due to an oversight of The Observer the ticket of Bob Man~ino, Anne Fink Jim Cas­_tellim, and Bob Hen~ekes was omitted from yesterday's ar­ticle. In their platform they plan to "push for total class mvolvement in many innovative functions that are proposed." Their ticket advocates many ~ocial activiti~s, fund raising tdeas, and tdeas to increase communication between the of­ficers and the class through the 
. ''improved use of the advtsory council, bi-monthly news letters and informational posters,'' as well as surveys, office hours of each officer and an "open door policy. " 
The-ticket of Tom Behney, Kevin Lovejoy, ] ean Menoni and Mary Pat Ziolkowski is another ticket for the class of '81. Their plans include work­ing to ''prevent any kind of arbitrary lottery (for housing) and working closely with 0-C housing to help students mov­ing off campus make the neces­sary adjustments." They also plan to modify the council by adding at least one representa­tive each hall that is elected by the members of the junior class. 
Ed Callahan, Joe Ciuni, Debbie Romo and ] ane Ander­son consist of another ticket for next year's junior class. Their platform consists of both seri­o~s and silly proposals. Run­nm~ under the slogan of "Go for It,'' the Callahan ticket has 

College loan default rates throw program into deficit 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The colleges to improve operation government yesterday made of the loan program, and to take public the college loan default over collection of loans that 
rates that have thrown the­have been in default the long­
national direct student loan est. program into a deficit of more Califano is planning to issue 
than $700 million. new regulations, to be effective At more than 200 colleges, by the 1980-81 school year, that the default rate as of June 30 
would cut off federal loan funds 
was 50 percent or more. The unless 'colleges meet perfor­national rate was 17.4 percent, mance standards to reduce compar~d with a 10 percent their default rates. default rate in the federally While the guaranteed stu­subsidized guaranteed student dent loan rate was dropping 
loan program, which is run from 14 \'ercent to less than 10 through banks and other percent m the past year, the lenders. 
national direct student loan rate 

The 20-year-old national dumbed from 16.9 percent to direct student loan program is 17.4 percent. operated by colleges and uni­More than 800,000 of these versities using 90 percent fed­loans are in default for $702 eral funds. million, as well as 350,000 
Many ofthe colleges with the guaranteed student. loans for worst default rates are beauty $407 million. · schools, business schools or Although it is the worst-run two-year colleges. Robert program frop1 the federal view-· Coates, an HEW official, siad J>Oint, the national direct stu­~he _de~ault rate at proprietary dent loan program is ,the best msmuuons was 33 percent and deal for students, with an at public community colleges, interest rate of only 3 percent. 35 percent. The guaranteed student loan 
Health, Education and Wel­rate is 7 percent. The loans are fare Secretary ] oseph A Coli­not repatd until a year after the fano ] r. recently announced student graduates or leaves plans to step up pressure on college. 
proposed "to abolish ramp:fnt 
mcompetency on the student 
government level at Notre 
Dame du Lac." They also 
propose the "formation of a 
JUmor volunteer army for those 
who wish to avoid the draft yet 
fight for our Dome," and the 
construction of a junior class 
parking garage. 
A fourth ticket for the class of 
'81 is composed of Mark 
Kelley, Michael MeSally, Ann 
Marie Pierson and Mike 
Onufrak. Their platform is 
based on. "a liberal policy for 
constructive change based on 
realistic ~oals, not absurd 
r.romises.' They plan to 
'clarify old avenues of ap­proach while simultaneously exploring new ones; keeping ~breast of t~e housing sttua­tton, developtng our relation­ship with off-cam,Pus and trans­fer classmates.' They also have many plans to utiltze the snow months at Notre Dame for social activities. 
'!he ticket of Jim Riedman, Bnan Murphy, Kelly and Janice McCormack round out the candidates for junior class officers. They believe that "specific promises would be too c~>nfining and unrealistic at this ume. We are enthusiastic to work to make our junior year a very special one." Their pro­posals include responding to "the need for more and better social activities" and ideas to increase communication. 

Officers for the class of 1982 are being sought by three tickets. One ticket consists of Steve Breummer, Timothy Emmett Dages, Karen Alig and Missy Conboy. One of their main proposals is to "increase cooperation participation and unity of the sophomore class through student input in the form of a sophomore advisory council and surveys of...stu­dents." They also have plans for a "monthly newsletter to kee~ everyone informed of up­comtng events as well as an overseas newsletter for the many sophomores .spendi.f:lg the year abroad.'' 
The ticket ofRudy A. Fernan­dez, Megan Boyle, Paul Pisar­ski and ) ohn Linderman make 
· 

up another ticket for the class of $82. Their major objectives incl~de "more ~tudent input and mvolvement m class acuvi­ties, two dorm reps and a monthly open forum to improve communication between of­fice~s. and students_, a housing coalmon to orgaruze the in­creased number~ of sopho­mores moving off-campus at the conclusion of sophomoe year.'' They also have plans for both social and service events. 
The ticket of Chip Gerhardt, Tim Sweeney, Tara Kenney and Terry Dunn form the final ticket for next year's sophomore class. They are pro_posing that while acting as soctal commis­sioners is an i!Jlportant function of class officers, the class should also be represented on campus issues. They would like to see the sophomore class president added to the Campus Life Council. They also propose the establishment ofclass coun­cil that will assist the officers in planning activities for the class. 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special Discount for N.D. Students 
259-0335 Self lock Storage of McKinley 


Applications fot 
• 




STUDENT UNION· 
Commission Compttolets may be picked up atthe S.U. Office 
beginning mat. 5 dueffiat.8 intetviews mat. 11 questions? call7757 

tonight s-7 $1.60pitc! lii~S 
\ 



• 
Tuesday, March 6, 1979 -page 4





Editorials 
P. 0. Box Q 

Sowders express appreciation 
Dear Editor: 

To the Notre Dame Community 
With deep humility, we gratefully give out thanks, and express our appreciation to the Notre Dame Community. Your gracious display of love and kindness was manifested in so many ways. Please know, and believe, that your prayers sus­tained us, and your celebration of the beautiful Masses with us defies our ability to adequately express our feelings. 
The significance of the honors you have bestow~ on Andy are quite beyond our comprehension, but we are serene with the assurance that Andy surely merited some degree of permanence among you. We are happy that Andy was a part of your hves, just as all of you are, and will continue to be, a part of our lives. 
Trusting that an}' omission on our Rart will be forgiven, we woulo be remiss not to mention Fr. Hesbur_gh Fr. Miceli, Fr. Fedor, Fr. Toohey, Sr.Jane and Coach Phelp_s, all ihe con­celebrants ol the Mass, and also Fr. Buckley of St. Toseph' s Hospital and Dr. MacDone1l of 
South Bend· and a specialmention of kristin Neubauer and the men of Cavanaugh. 
Our family and all of our community here at Idalou were priyelged to. meet Fr. Miceli, Knstm, Ke1th MacDonnell, Paul Masciarelli, Jay Albrecht, and Kevin Dunphy, each of who represented the true character and nature of Notre Dame. Our entire community fell in love with all oif them. 
There are schools, colleges, and universities, some great, and some oflesser import. Ther is but one Notre Dame. 
Our Lord's peace and bless­ing to all of you. 
} erry Madison andFrances, james, Mary, Bob, Bzll, and Tim Sowder 

'Deplorable social conditions' 
Dear Editor: 

The topic of sexuality at 

Politics, Protest andFreedom. 
Editor's Note: This is the second installment of a two-part c.olumn dealing with ''Politics Protes and Freedom" in terms of boycotts. ' 
The organizations which ban have clearly 
decided on a "good" punishinent · of immoral 
behavior) which places a pnonty on their ability ­
(power) to authoritatively allocate their values. 
In order to carry out this allocation in a 
authoritative manner, it is necessary to 
"capture" a specific instrument of coercion. In 
this case, it is the referendum (or plebecite). It 
is through the referendum which insists on 
absolute denial. In so doin~, the banning 
->rganizations over-ride the nonon of "distinct 
goods": the good of the majority's ban and the 
good of the freedom of the minority to opt out of 
this ban. They reduce their objective to a 
"zero-sum" means of attainment. 
Simply put, the good of the banning orgaruzations is the only good. This is. not the first time the political coercion has been used to force a majority's view of the good (undifferentiated) upon a minoriy. . The Prohibition Movement had some grounds for their imposition on a minoriy: that alcoholic beverages are, in and of themselves, harmful. The banning organizations cannot make the same claim. 
The problem of the exclusion of the opposition becomes more pertinent when one views politics .as something more than "mere democracy" (or, as some have suggested, infantilistdemocracy1. The mere democracy position basically ip.sists that a majority is right because it is a majority, and that its will may not be abridged by a minority. This view of democracy is much closer to Rousseau's notion of the General Will than it is to the traditions of Anglo-Saxon democracy, which insist that even majorities have parameters which restrain them, and these restraints are most often defmed in terms of "rights" of the minority. 
The case of the banning organizations resembles Rousseauist thinking: The opposition -it in the minority -will be submerged by the majority decision. Further, the minority's f1eedom to express its opposition to majority policy will be severely curtailed; for they will not have the opportUnity to utilize the products the majority denies them as a protest to the majority. For all practical purposes, the oppostion is wiped-out, the General Will reigns. It should be pointed out that jf the banning organizations should lose in their referendum· effort, their protest can still be effectively made since they continue to possess the power of boycott. It would seem, then, that this tyranny by . the majority of the minority,-which Tocqueville recognized as the chief danger of democracy, finds little justification in the principle of necessity. 
The banning organizations may insist that the opposition is making a great fuss over the right to eat tomato salads and drink cups of hot chocolate. But this certainly would be an odd twist; for it is the banning organizations themselves that have turned these activities into political acts. And it is this curious alchemy that suggests the most serious ramifications for politics itself. For we live in a time in which all problems seem to be capable of being resolved by the application of arbitrary power in a good cause, and the grander the scope of the involvement of that power, the more hope there is for the realization of some uto,t>ian visiOn. We face an all-encompassing polincization of the mind; a mind-set that insists that J?Olitics is everything and everything is politics. As Titmuss noted in his own analysis, economics is not everything. • 
It is possible that politics is not everything either. And to make it everything may result in unacceptable consequences for members of a free society. To convert every contestable issue into a rnatter for eolitical resolution will result in the increase ana expansion of the sphere of politics. We have only to look at the totalitarian Ideologies of our time to see the result of "politics is everything." This is not to say that there are not legitimate political issues; that there is not a sphere ap,t>ropriate to that of the State. But I submit: eaung salads and drinking hot chocolate are not issues worthy of coercion, authority, obedience. 
Finally, the opposition itself is undoubtedly divided between those who are opposed to the objectives of the banning organizations en toto (i.e., that Nestle and Libby corporations are guilty of immoral acts and that they should be punished for these acts) and those who genuinely feel that althou~h these corporations may be guilty of such acts, It is not the majority's prerogative to impose their outra~e upon those who may not be 10 agreement With all of their objectives. This is especially the case when those objectives may be. secured without recourse to such an imposition. Boycott? Yes, if it means the freedomto cbooee.lelf-deaW. Bu~ Emphatically, no. · 
Barry 0 'Connor 
Notre Daine has been one of this year's more poRular themes. The subject IS fasci­nating and always provides interestin_g dinner conversa­tion. However it becomes difficult to talk about the issue light-heartedly when one is forced to witness the human pain caused by the deplorable social conditions at Notre Dame. 
I live in a women's dorm on campus. Each weekend and some weeknights, we are "serenaded" with obscenities screamed at us by men return­ing from a night at the bars. Rarely are individual women singled out; instead, the dorm as a whole is classified as one or another low form of human life. 
What compels men to stand in front of darkened windows and scream at a building? I know there are some obvious reasons--they're drunk, they're in a rowdy mood, they're tlred enough not to care what they say. But isn't it in supposedly "spontaneous" behaviOur that true attitudes surface? It really is a trage~y that men are . so angry w1th women, w1th 
womanhood, that in frustration or drunkenness or depressionthey have to lash out at an 3:nonym9us . building. .OnlY. . a 
uny mmonty react m this way--but aren't ther a sign of the times, a symbo of a trulyunhealthy social climate? Can they--should they, as they liter­aUy scream for help--be ignored? 
I can see m&ny reasons for the problem. The reason which realfy frustrates and angers me is the University ,t>olicy of restricting the admission of women. It angers me because I feel reduced to second-class status, and because I see, and hear, the people who are seri­ously harmed by this policy. How can men and women learn to relate in mutual respect and friendship when in certain ares of study the enrollment is overwhelmingly male? The situation forced upon men and women by such disproportion in classrooms leads to unnatural emphasis on stereotyped male/female roles and lack of understanding and growth. 
A few months ago the Administration stated that more women would not be admitted to the University because: 1) it is a predomi­nately male institution (Catch22); 2) the cost and difficulty of converting men's dorms mto women's; 3) women don't con­tribute as much. I find all three reasons infuriating, especially in the light of the social abnormalities caused by such logic. When I hear obscenities outside my window at 3 a.m., I question the atmosphere here in terms of the mental health of students. I suggest the Admin­istration do the same. 
Mary Hawley 

DOOIISBUBI 
o/J Gl3'fot~­
''UIATIS NC&IJS) /N5Tt/l[) 
~.AN/J IT IS 7HE POS/7/0N 
IS A StNSE CF /?E5TPAINT OF 7Hc NATIONAL RIR..E 
ANP FIHR PlAY. IF (}(Jf!.. 
ota PROf)/) SOKXlS
t. 
ASSOCIATICW THAT 11/HfN 
fAI6/q; 7fJ flESIJME 50CJAL CtJN'TmS, MJRE 
• 
IT CGi1&S 7lJ MBITRAFY 
7IE 7EAOIIN6 CF..' 
\,
/ IS LESS.!" 
I IAJIWT706tT THIS 
5lTWiHT. IS rrAC7UAL­
EXACTl.Y. LY ~ VISIJ7HAT7HE 
IJJE AlMX:'A7C 

either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............ Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson
-The Observer_ of 
as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray O'Brien Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chn's Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Langhenry Photo Editor .......... ,Do~g Christian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Ros~ Mills per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cadi.? Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Samt Mary's EditoF . . . . . . FJJen B~dd:J . Business Manager ........ john T~cker Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam· News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters! is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 


~l 

The Observer 
In Arts and Letters program 



ND introduces new major 
• 
by Patti 0 'Neill 

The College of Arts and Letters is planning to offer a new major to be known as Computer Applications. This major is available to all stu­dents presently enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters, and is designed as a second major only. 
Dr. C. Lincoln Johnson, director of the Sociaf Science Training and Research Labora­tory, is the coordinator of this major. He notes that the need for such a field of study is two-fold. 
"Last year, we realized that Arts and Letters students needed a major like this be­cause most students had no awareness of the impact that comr,uters have on everyday life, ' Johnson commented. ''Also, many student began to leave Arts and Letters because they felt they were not market­able for a job with a B.A degree." 
) ohnson feels that the Com­puter Applications major will meet both of these needs. ''This major will teach not only applications of their major but will also make them more marketable in their present major as well as more market­
for alternative jobs.'' He 
noted that this .major will 
Arts and Letters students 
competitive for graduate 
William Davisson, who has 
been instrumental in the 

.~ .......v .. of Computer Appli­
is a professor of econ­

who will also teach rnlllr"''" in this filed. Davisson made the distinc­
between the Computer Applications major and a com­puter science major. He point­ed out that computer science deals only with the operating system of the computer. How­ever, he explained that the Computer Applications major will deal with the operating system only to the extent that the students will be able to apply the computer skills to his area of interest. 
"The Computer Applications major is comparable with the goals of a liberal arts education while the computer skills will help the student to get a better job," Davisson commented. 
Schlafly
contributes 
toND 
Hubert J. Schlafly, vice chairman of American TransCommunications, Inc. and former president of TelePompter Corporation, has contributed $250,000 to Notre Dame's current fund-raising effort. The~ift will be held in a 
University fund until the details 
of its use are determined. 
In making the announce­ment, Fr. Theodore Hesbur~h, president of the University, said "Notre Dame is privileged, indeed, to have dedicated and generous friends, such as Mr. Schlafly, whose benefactions insure its future academic dis­tinction." 
Schlafly, born in St. Louis, Mo., received a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Notre Dame in 1941. Married to the former Leona 
Martin he and his wife now live 
in Gr~enwich Conn head­
quarters ~f .A·~erican TransCommunications. 
his own thought p-rocesses. In addition, the capabilities of in­stitutions across the country are shared with Notre Dame,'' Marsh explained. ·These "cap­abilities" are in the form of shared com{>uter programming with institutions like MIT, Yale, Stanford, Rice and Dartmouth. 
Besides th.e strengths of the computer facilities at Notre Dame, Marsh also noted the direct benefits that this major will provide to the students. ''Those who understand theory, have common sense, experi­ence, analytical skills and also have computer ability will be those who command high sala­ries." 
Marsh's opinion is supported by PATCH ma~azine (the Notre Dame Computtng Center peri­odical) which states, "Provid­ing students with exposure and use of the Compuung Center facilities makes them more competitive than other college graduates entering the job market.'' 
Professor Davisson also agreed that these skills will enhance job opportunities ex­plaining that the job market for those with computer skills is better than for most engineers. 
{co•ntinued from page 1J that the ~roups attected by the leadership of the new student 

•government should have a chance to give their endorse­ment. 
Also discussed during the short meeting were the shuttle schedule and Woman's Week. 
Marian Frost, co-ex commis­sioner, in reference to possible changes in the off-campus shuttle stops explained, "The shuttle schedule will remain as 

is  until  next  year  and  then  
change,  until  a  response  is  
received  from  the  off-campus  

students." 
Some students have com­plained that the 11:45 p.m. run 1s either too late or not suffi­cient for the off-campus stu· dents' needs. .Frost is waiting for student reaction before de­ciding on any changes, how­ever. 
According to Frost, one of the bus drivers has been asked to resign because of student com­plaints about his service. 
Other complaints about the shuttle schedule have resulted from students forgettin~ about the 11:45 off-campus tnp. 

Chat·rmen to meet atSMC 
The final meeting for the 1979 Mardi Gras booth chair­men, architects, raffle chair­men, and committee members will be held tomorrow at 8: 30 
p.m. in the Saint Mary's Club­house. 
All checks for prizes and awards will be issued at that time, and attendance is man­

• datory. 
Letters College. Requirements include Technological Philos­ophy, Computer Language, and Elementary and Advanced Ap­plications. 
The three professors are in accord about the overwhelming benefits of the program. Dr. Johnson noted that one of the greatest benefits of the Com­P.uter Applications major is that 
'the students receive the good liberal arts background that Notre Dame is so renown for in addition to skills that help them t~ apr,ly their liberal arts educa­tiOn. 
Dr. Marsh added that the Notre Dame education, which "stresses the moral and ethical responsibilities needed to make human decisions in times of rapid technological advance­ment'' will now also provide practical understanding of that technology. 
·Professor Davisson also noted that the new maior can provide an opportunity for stu· dents to au~ment a fine liberal arts education. 
Anyone interested in this major should contact Dr. C. Lincoln Johnson in Room 537, Memonal Library (Social Science Training and Research Laboratory) or call 7458. 

Tuesday, March 6, 1979 ~page 5 
WSnb Mll-t=m IS now takln(j applicatiOnS 

~oQ sus1ness manaqeR 
-must have extensive account1n4 sack(fiKlunO ,. -thiS IS a palO positiOn 
call 283-7342 ~0~ betallS 
·································································~ 



Sophomore Literary Festival match4-10 
Ftlday -Ftosh dance Stepan march9 
Tuesday -Amazing Kteskln 7:30 march13 O'laughlln Aud. smc 
NAVY OFFICER. YOU GET RESPONSIBILITY THE MOMENT YOU GET THE STRIPES. 
A lot of companies will offer you an important sounding 
title. 
But how many offer you a really important job? 
In the Navy, you get one as soon as you t~am your com· 
mission. A job with responsibility. A job that i-cquires skill 
and leadership. A job that's more than just a job, because 
it's also an adventure. 
If that's the kind of job you're looking for, speak to your 
local recruiter. Contact: 
Ifthat's the kind ofjobyou'relookingfor, speak to the Navy Officer Programs Officer who will be on campus, in the Placement Office, on the 8th & 9th of March. Or give us a call anytime at (312) 657-2234, 


and special guest 



SammyHagar 
sale Monday 
Box Office only. sale Wednesday at all usual 
Seats S8.50 S7.50 
Dr. Lawrence Marsh, who is also a professor of economics, noted that benefits of establish­ing this major. "Computers make one capable of extending 
The major will require twenty-four credit hours of courses taught by existing fac­ulty drawn from all depart­ments across the .Arts and 

• • • SMCBoard 
The final choice of speakers for Women's Week has not been decided but the theme has been chosen and possible speakers are still bemg con­tacted. The theme, "Woman and the Arts" will focus on literature, dance, music enter­tainment and art. 
The Saint Mary's Student Government and AlumnaeAsso­ciation is sponsoring a Spring Fashion Show this Sunday from 
11:00 a.m.-2:30 p.m. The • fashions are provided by Paul Harris Boutiques and will be modeled by Saint Mary's stu· dents. 
Registration for Big SisterI Little Sister Weekend has been extended until next Monday. The registration fee of $15 includes meals at the dining hall from Friday dinner through Saturday's banquet dinner, plus tickets for a movie shown on campus that night and other events planned for both days. 




SGACoffers applications 
The Undergraduate Schools Committee, a joint program offered by the University Ad­missions Office and the Student Government Academic Com­mission, is still taking· applica­tions from any member of the student body interested in re­turning to their former high schools to speak to prospective NO applicants over spring break. · 
Applications may be obtained in the student government of­fices until Wednesday. 
Anyone with any questions concernin~ the program should contact Rick Gobbie, student government academic com­missioner, at 7668. 


-j 

.'. 


• 

The Observer Tuesday, March 6, 1979 -page 6 
. 


Aminplans 
drive against Tanzanian invaders 


The Daily Crossword 
' 

All Rights Reserved 
Molarity 

3/6/79 

r-------------~--------------------------\ 
NAIROBI, Kenya (AP)-Ugan· dan President Idi Amin aban· cloned his cease-ftre efforts yesterdaY. and called on his army to 'ftght to the last man" in a major new drive planned against Tanzanian invaders, Radio Uganda said. 
An unconftrmed report said hundreds of Libyan and Moroc­can trOOJ?S had arrived to bol­ster Amm's forces. But the Ugandan leader was dealt two new blows-by the British, who cut off supply flights from 


One way m11y be to live within the Augustinian Fraternity. When ·you come to live with ua, you obaerve and participate In our community life for several y..,. before ' making a final commitment. You observe thai we are a religious community following the cherlsm of Sl. Augustine and "lhet together and with one heart In brotherhood and spiritual friendship, we seek and worship God and that we labor ·In the service of the people of God." We serve In colleges, high schools, parishes, foreign missions, campus ministries, retreats, hospitals and military chaplaincies. 
WANT MORE INFORMATION? CONTACT: 
Father Bill Waters, O.S.A. 
Villanova University 
P.O. Box 338 
VIllanova, PA 19085 
(215) 525-5612 
N•m•·------------------------------------
Addreaa,__________________________________ 
Clty__________Stat.o_______JLZip•_________ 
SchoolorOcc.. ______________~g•·----------­Phone._________________ 
' ~ . ' . 

Britain, and by four fellow black 
African leaders who offered to 
help the Tanzanians. 
The Ugandan broadcast; mon­itored here, called on all citi· zens in the occupied areas to ''evacuate immediately before a major offensive is launched to liberate Ugandan territory." There was no indic~tion when the drive might start. ' 
The Tanzanians, backed by Ugandan exiles and reportedly by dissident Ugandan soldiers, control much of southwestern 
ACROSS 28 Nagoya's 1 Embankment land
• 

5 Canadian 30 Outwit 
region, 31 Letter 10 Familiar 34 Encomium' 14 Pagan deity 35 Nickel-cop­15 Awry per alloy 16 Villain 36 Sault­
of drama Marie 17 Gumshoes, . 37 Chablis for short 38 Romangod 18 Madrid of doorways 
monarch 39 Leg part 19 Check 40 Time of day 20 H.H. Munro 41 Courtiers 21 Rather or 42 Highlanders 
Dailey 43 Bandleader 22 Rock oddity Brown 23 Bone of the 44 Greek god • 
arm 45 Takethe 25 Prevail stump 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

I...!__'' I • ,",',;,, 

••• io 
Japanese 11 Feel great grief 
• Mike Molinelli 





RECORD Distribution 
will be 

DELAYED ONE WEEK 
due to greater than expected volume. Distribution SWAMPED will be the week of 
march 12. We ate 
so11yforany inconvenience. 





Hal/ 
. ' t ~..... 
' ~, 

Uganda and kept up pressure Monday on Lukaya, 52 miles from the capital of Kampala and 70 miles inside Uganda. 
Amin's threat of a new offensive was a change from his efforts last week to seek peace through the United Nations and the Organization of Mrican Unity. • 
Monday's broadcast told ftsh­ermen to keep off Lake Victoria at night because of ''measures being taken to combat enemies who cross into Uganda via the 
46 NewYork 12 Likesome 
college cheese 
48 Stadium 13 City in 
sound Georgia 49 Songbirds 22 Rub the 51 Aussie bird wrong way 53 Be bril-24 Compass 
liant point 56 Farm ,tools 26 Work incen· fil Bird call tive 59 A Chaplin 27 Haberdash­60 Empty ery stock 61 Bizarre 28 Precious 62 Large person 
containers 29 Active 63 Dry run 32 Long post 64 Show amuse-33 Logic 
ment 

65 At the sum­mit 
DOWN 1 Points 2 Concept 3 Haveagood 
time 4 Cattle feed 5 Largest 
lake in 

Italy 6 Confused 7 By the­
(barely) 8 Write 9 Farm animal 35 Constructor 
38 European mountain range 
39 City in Florida 41 Small 
amounts 42 Sticky stuff 47 Beginning 48 Lahore 
lucre 49 Verysmall bit 50 Did ranch work 52 Nothing 
else than 54-Domini 55 Coarse file fil Humble abode 58 Shade 
lake," whose shores are shared by Uganda, Tanzania and Ken­ya.
In London, the British Trade Department banned twice-a­week Uganda ,b.irlines ca~go flights that had been carrymg supplies of various kinds to Uganda, reportedly much of it medical equipment. A depart· ment spokesman said the move was made to ''put additional pressure'' on Amin. It was reported yesterday that leaders of four black African nations meeting in Angola had offered their support for Tan­zania's attack on Uganda's "imperialist aggression." 
The four countries--Angola, Zambia, Mozambique and Bot­swana-are joined with Tanzania in the "front-line" group of states that support black na­tionalist movements in South Africa. The nature of their potential support was not known. 
...Mideast 
(continued from page 1] 

Powell's announcement said the talk ''will focus on the peace process, regional security and bilateral issues." 
Apart from the peace treaty, both Egypt and Israel are looking for large quantities of 
U.S. military and economic assistance from the United States. 
The statement, recalling Carter's summit meeting last fall with Begin and Sadat, said "the president believes that we must not allow the prospects for peace which seemed so bright last September to continue to dim and perhaps to vanish. 
"If we do, the jud~ement of history and of our children will rightly condemn us." • 
. . • Tracksters 
[continued from page B] 

Aragon, as they won the event in. 3:23.07. 
For most of the Irish team, this marked the end of the indoor season, but two relay teams will be competin~ in the NCAA Indoor Champtonships at Detroit this weekend. 
The two-mile relay team starids the best chance of coming home with a medal. The team of Tim Macauley Pete Burger, Chuck Aragon, and Jay Miranda has been nationally ranked for most of the year, and Coach Piane thinks that they should be able to get into the fmals and do well there. 
"The most impor:rant •race will be the prelims, because if they don't do well, it is all over," Piane said. "But if they get all the breaks and run ~hat they are capable of runmng, there's no telling how high they can go.'' Piane also pointed out that Villanova is the top-rated team in the country, and the Irish only lost to Vtllanova by one-tenth of a second at the Knights of Columbus meet in Cleveland. 
The distance medley team will also compete in Detroit, and Piane thinks they have a chance to make the ftnals ifthey run well. Jim Slattery will run the half-mile, Ken Lynch will run the quarter-mile, Tony Hatherly wtll run the 3.4 mile, and Steve Welch will run the mile in this race. 
Aragon also qualified in the 
880-yard run, but it was 
decided that he should concen­
trate on the two-mile relay. 



-~----~--­

----------------------------------------~~----------------------~ 
The Observer -Sports Tuesday, March 6, 1979-page 7
-· 


• • • leers 
[conh'nt~ed from page 8] In between all that, comes Toni~ht's game will not go to In other WCHA playoffpotential." practice, including a rare overtune in the event of a tie, action, Colorado College will be 
Notre Dame has had more Sunday skate at 9:00 at night. while tomorrow's will be played at first-place North Dakota, than enough time to think about It is all designed to keep the to a decision. the upcoming playoff series, team loose and their minds on Both games will be broadcast Michigan Tech will be at anyway. In fact, maybe it has hockey. by WNDU-AM radio, begin­Minnesota, and Denver will be 
at Duluth.

been too much. For the Irish to stay alive, they mng at 8:25 EST. 
Killing the time created by will have to avoid the penalty the extended stay in Madison, box and do a better job killing which will be four extra days, penalties. Wisconsin scored has been the biggest factor for eight times on 15 power-play 
NCAA tickets go on sale
the players so far, and they attempts over the weekend. have responded in a variety of They will also have to do a Tickets for the first round of to one ticket, the student must ways. 
better job of forechecking and the post season NCAA basket­present only his or ht>r 0wn ID"We're just trying to keer, stopping the potent Badger ball tournament on Sunday, card. The first rounJ game willfrom flunking out of school, ' offense, islcludmg Scott Lecy be held at Middle TennesseeMarch 11 between Notre Dame said John Schmidt. "We've 
who had four goals Saturday. State, located in Murfreesboro,
and the winner of the Easternbeen away awhile, and could be "I think the double loss over Kentucky-Tennessee match-up 1N as the Irish compete in the gone even longer, so we all 
the weekend might work to our Midea~~ Regionals. Tickets for have alot of studying to occupy advantage,'' offered winger Bill will go on sale Tuesday, March the game will be $8, this priceovr time." Rothstein. "It's kind of hard 6 from 1 to 5 pm. They will includes both games to be
Studying, among others, is a for one team to beat another remain on sale at the ACC played on the 11th. If Notre 
big thing with the team these four straight times." Ticket Box Office on W ednes­Dame should advance to thedays. That, and playing cards, Since the series will be only day, March 7 from 9 am to 5 region~ls, students should con­backgammon, {>mball, and two games, the winner will be pm. Each Notre Dame or Saint tact the ACC Ticket Office forwatching televisiOn. 
decided on total goals. Mary's student will be limited information. 
AP 

·Top-Twenty 
The Top Twenty teams In The Associated Press college basketball poll, with first-place votes In parenthe­ses, season records and total points. Points based on 20·19-18·17·16-15-14· 13-12·1Ho-9-8·7-6-5-4·3·2·1: 
1. Indiana St. (55) 2. UCLA (3)  29-0 23-4  1,150 1.on  
3. North Carolina 4. Michigan St. 5. Notre D1me  23-5 21-6 22-5  1,034 932 850  
6. Duke  22-7  810  
7. Arkansas  23-4  797  
8. DePaul  22-4  678  
9. Louisiana St.  22-5  612  
10. Syracuse 11. Georgetow~, D.C.  25-3 24-4  610 556  
12. Marque' a 13. TempiP 14. lowe  21-6 25-3 2o-7  431 412 409  
15. Te~  >  21-7  361  
16. Purdue  23-7  255  
17. DetroIt  22·5  241  
18. Louisville  23-7  221  
19. San Francis~o  21-6  164  
20. Tennessee  2o-11  70  

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m .. two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer ollice will accept 
classilieds Monday through Friday. 10 00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All 
cla~sifieds must be pre·paid. either in person or through the ma11.


Classified.s 
Minnesota Skinny, .
Need ride to Dallas for spring break. Call FRIDAY, MARCH 91S A HUG·A·RED· Your pool shooting and drink mixing
Mary Meg at 8037. HEAD DAYI!! 
were both excellent. Thanks lor the best weekend since I've been at ND-even 
Notices Wanted 
Need ride to Buffalo or Nlagra Falls for 
Brent, better than my birthday!
Keenan's ZA·LAND announces 'super Zl spring break. Will share In all expenses.
Need ride to Chicago March 9. Desperate luv, "Nice Eyes"
I Wish you didn't have to leave, but
Nltl' Wednesday, March 7th. One FREE Call Jean at 8037.
Call SMC 4007!! only you know what you must do.
SODA with every pizza! Win a FREE Today March 7Is the Birthday of Marltza
PIZZAI Orders taken now at 3318. (7688 Need ride home for March break. Going May you find whatever It Is you are
Need ride to Fort Lauderdale for spring searching for. Though the desert Is a Poza, Jake Lambert and Betsy Wilson. 
on Za Nile). west on 1-80 to Des Moines, Iowa. Call
break. Call 5400. Wish them a happy day.
Scourge 2136. beautiful place It too holds many dangers. Take care~
Riders wanted to the Garden State (where 
WANTED: Ride for 3to D.C. or northern Marltza: 
the air Is clean & the grass Is green). WANTED: Riders to Central New
VA for break. Can leave after 2pm on the P.S. Keep In touch. I guess we'll Happy 21st. Hope It's a good day.
Leaving late 3/14 or earfy 3/15. Going to Jersey. We'll be heading east either
16th. Call Rod 8384 or leave note In postpone the Idea for the coffee house... Hugs and Kisses, The Quasls Quad
Cllltrll N.J. Call Joe (8460). Wednesday night (3/14) or Thursday
Observer office. 
morning (3/15). Call Joe (8460). 
Marltza,
ATTENTION MAY GRADS Tall Cutle,
WSND AM·FM Is now taking applica­Happy 21st birthday to my favorite
Friday, March 9, Is the last day to apply WANTED( ND·LaSalle basketbal pro­
tions for Business Manager. Must have Here's something to yell about at cheg (next to Steve, of course). Hope you
grams/scorecards. Also, last year's
for a MORRISSEY LOAN. No excep­extensive accounting background. This Is lunch. HI. have a happy day. See you at dinner.
tions. NO-Mississippi. Wll buy or trade. Phone 
apaid position. Call m-3446 for details. Madhatter love, Diane
(616) 471-1Jn or (616) 983-0285 nights. 
P.S. Don't choke on your peanuts.

Volunteer Tutors Needed! Betsy,
Ride needed to Buffalo (Fredonia) for
Uke kids? Any aspiring young teachers Despel'ltely need ride to New York City
break. Call Joe 232-53n after 5:30. Dear Mom, Happy 2oth to my favorite SMC sister. 
out there? Get some experience on a lrtl lor brt1k. PLEASE CAU MoniCIIt "Happy Birthday". Hope your day Is super happy. We'll one-to-one basis and help a child get a love and kisses, Mike
41...f771.

BOSTON!! Need ride to Boston. Will have agood time In Florida. r can't walt. 
boost In school and catch up with his 
share expenses. Call John 1868 or 1857. Only 7 more days.
I need aride to CT., PLEASE (Even NYC
classmates. Only requirement: 2 half Watch out N.D. Chlckenman Is coming. love, Diane
hour sessions a week for 10 weeks at or New Jersey will do • I'm t111t
1need a ride to Newark, Delaware or Cluck Cluck. 
nearby Madison School. desperate) Call Frank at 3213.
vicinity.

Elementary Diane 3750 for spring break. Jake,
Program already In progress. We need DAVE BREHL 
Happy 21st birthday cutle. Now you 
you now! Interested persons please MINNESOTA: Need ride to St. aul. all
Cute Cathy Is looking for someone to give Don't forget that name, and you surely can not say you got stiffed. Enjoy dinner.
Kathy 3845. Can leave Mar. 15 or 16.
contact Marilyn Bellis at 232-3438 or Sue 1,2, or 3people ride to Boston for spring won't forget the face (we just hope you Diane
Christensen at 288-7151 or Volunteer break. Call her at 6859. don't have nightmares about it.)Services at 7308. Who said the unknown plano player Need rlde(s) to Downstate New York area For Sale Anyone lnterelted In 1n outdoor lnterlllll would be at the Nazz Saturday night?
D.C. Club Bui-CI' Jane 11104, .lly 33111, ~-or 1-84) for sprlpg break. Coleen trick 111111 In April, Clll 6100 befort 5:00. (It's an unknown to me!) Look for JL,
C1rl 3311 befort 3/, . n yeu 111111 rldtn, CW, MB and SN. Clll C1rl. Sony 5-band AM/FM/shortwave radio. 
Yes It is true! Those guys of the 911 Club
HP-25 programmable calculator. Call Jim
Need ride during break to East PA or on Mark Kelley,
are the best! Thanks Scoop, Sean, J.K.,
Nocturne Nlghttllght, WSND-FM 88.9, nt56-10 pm.
1-80 • Doug 1008. When we told you to "break a leg" on
J.R., and Tim for an excellent timer
HANK NOTAR·DONATO features THE the campaign trail, we didn't think you'd
love, Asecre t SMC admirer
MUSIC OF CROSBY, STILLS, NASH. & 1951 Aultln Hilley "Bug Eye" Sprite
Need ride to New Jersey for break. Will take us literally!
P.S. Sean, hang In there! Only 3 more
YOUNG tonight at 12:15. 21,1100 1ctu11 miles. Never wrecked or
share $$. Brian 3508. Good tuck and best wishes,
days!

nnted out. Ucenud 4 1111111 In 14 yura. 
Badin Sophomores FLORIDAII 
HIVI orlglllll hlrdtop lnd COIIVIrtlble. SMC Freshmen pick up an extra shot Need ride to West Coast of Florida • Soft top. Get 33V2 miles per gallon. In WE'RE BACK IN THE SADDLE AGAIN Lori, Tampa-St. Pete area. Call Pat 6784. mint condition and runs beautiful. Have Sarah Grathwohl Curtis, formerly of Thanks for not spilling your drink on
glass or class T-shirt at the Dining Hall custom built tow bar. Phone 272-3508. Laughln' Place, Is now instructing at ME!
Tues., Wed. & Fri. 
Keith Hell's Stable In Niles, Michigan.
2 need ride to/from Florida for break. Rudy
Pioneer cassette deck with Dolbv recor· Heated arena/4 maximum In class/Eng­
Please call 8682. 
der. $100 or best offer over $70 After lish or Western/4 lessons -In advance SAYS ME: midnight Paul 8276. · $40.00/Thursday evenings, Saturday 
BLACK SOCRATES Is really a Puerto

Lost&Found 
afternoons. Call Jo Hell after 7:00
Desperately need ride to Philadelphia for Rican fag existentialist. break. Call Kathy 1340. PV.70
Classic Peugeot 404$900. Call 288·92n. 683-4467.
LOST or stolen: Ladles size 8 brown 
leather gloves • Please return to 339 -----------------­
MUST SELLI.ATARI· VIdeo pme -low 1am leaving school. It's been a difficult Thlnkl to Ill who 1111dl the K of C DIICO
Need ride to Washington D.C. Can leaveWalsh or Lost and Found In the Ad Bldg. 
price. ~Y Clr 11 wrecked, must get. year, but there are memories and people I the1uccea t111t Hwn. Judging from tht pay. Call John 3305. 
Wed. Mar. 14, will help drive and will 
money to fix H. C1ll 1783 for Info. will never be able to forget. I would like tmnlndOUI f'IIIIOMI thert II I dlflnltl
LOST: Someone borrowed my Mozart 
to thank everybody and wish them the nlld tor 1 piiCI to dlnce on tbl1 e~mpu1.
Strtng Quartets last fall and never 
FOR SALE: OVATION ACOUSTIC/· best of luck: my roommates, section 9-D, We hope to bl1ble to fill tlllt lllld 1g1ln
Going to Florida for spring break? B~~ areturned them. Confessions • call electric guitar w/case. Excellent condi· Mike Busk, Mike Moud, my teachers and In the future.
roundtrip ticket to Ft. Lauderdale for $75,289-1412. 
tlon. $350. Brian at 288-2129. advisors, and all those who have touched
call Harry 8922. 
me In some way. I'll try to keep In touch. Jim and Mo are ND·SMC's hottestLOST: Gold Waltham watch Saturday 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun. love on ya-Brent Bove couple.
My buddyroo .and I need a ride tonight near Senior Bar. Please Call Tina 
9-7 Ralph Casperson, 1303 Buchanan
Lauderdale for break. Call Pat 1788.
5121 If round. Thanks! 
Road, Niles 683-2888. Kerry, 
OHIO NOODLE QUEEN OF DECA­The Lord should have kept the mold 
deiiCI:LOST: Gold watch on blue striped FOR SALE: DBX II 122 noise reduction when He created you so there would be 
Why don't we doH In the mud?
watchband • someWhere between the 
Need ride for 2 to Maryland ·D.C. area system. 3 months old. Need bucks bad, more like you around. Or the Ubrlry rtfllcttng pool?
laundry and Lewis. If found. plu11 call 
for spring break. Will share expenses only $185.00, call Gene 1803. Thank you for a trulr wonderful
Gaelynn 3415. Genghll Khln
and driving. Please call Karen 41-4522. evening and for a wonderfu you. Terl Samurl Copy Editor:
LOST: Tl SR-50 In section 2 of E. 
Help! Need ride to Lawrence, Mass. for The Copy Editor Is dead -Long live the

Personals
Carolina game. Call Brian at 8700. 
break -can leave Wed. Mar. 14 • will Tim, new Copy Editor I Goodbye Butcher. share expenses. Tony 1423. Thank you for a wonderful evening at 
Your Replacement

LOST: One crutch outside of the Library 
the formal. You made It special.

LOU ANN, MY FOREVER:
about a week and a half ago. If you've Stacey
Need ride for 2to Ft. Myers, Florida over PAPA JOE'S IS AN ETERNAL ORGA· Guitarist-singers needed for 2 masses:seen this crutch alive, call Mike at 1678. 
P.S. Thanks for Clem! YOUR BEAUTY IS SURPASSED Keenan-Stanford. Call Nick 3216. 
break. Can leave Wed. Call Brian 1423. NISMIC MEMORY. 5:15 Sat. Sacred Heart and 5:00 Sun. 
LOST: Sunday alter thelnterhall game at The Anlmll 11 getting 1111
ONLY BY YOUR IMPECCABLE IMPER·
the ACC, 1 basketball with my name on 
SONATIONS, HEY YOGIIII Laura,If If found call Bart at 1078. 
Brent,

Need ride to Harttord, CT. area for spring YEAH, YEAH. I LOVE YOU. Dinner at the "Bores" Head was great.
We have no idea what this place will
break. Want to leave Wed. afternoon, but NORTONTHEROADRUNNE~ Let's do It again sometime. 
try to replace you with. We only know It
will accept most ·anything. Please call [BEEP BEEP) anew, hopeful Bunny
can't really be done.

Marybeth 288-9049.

For Rent 
Good luck and best wishes. Attention Saint Mary's! I Now's yourDave, Your section-mates chance to give that special someone (I.e.
HOUSE FOR RENT 3 blocks golf course, Need ride to Long Island for spring break. Right. What's a cubit? Fang and I Domer, roommate, professor, best
9-D Grace
$75 mo., fireplace, available Sept. Will share In expenses. Call John at thank you for a great time Friday night. P.S. The 911 Club won't be fhe same... enemy, etc.) a personal in the Observer! 233-1329. 3507. See your at Nickle's. Contact tne SMC office In the basement 
·~·-­

of Regina South or call 5365 from 12-1 pm for more Information!! 
:I 


~~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, March 6, 1979 ·page 8 



S12orts 
Inseason finale 
. 


Trackste~s cruise·to victory 
by Mark Perry Assistant Sports Editor 

In its final meet of the indoor season, the Notre Dame tr~ck team cruised to an easy victory over Illinois-Chicago Circle, 102-29, at a dual meet last Saturday at the ACC. 
"We can learn something from a meet like this," said Irish Coach Joe Piane. "Four years ago "1-/e had a really close dual meet against this team, so we can see that we have improved over that time.'' 
"We're having some prob­lem because we have im-. proved," Piane added. Teams that we have scheduled· meets with for many years all of the sudden don't want to run against us anymore.'' 
Women cagers end season with 'no excuse' tourney loss 
by Mark Hannuksela Sports W n'ter 

Many times, after• losing a big game, a coach or a player will make some excuse for the loss. "The refs were bad," or "So-and-so was hurt," are the most common ones. But no­body could find an excuse for the women's basketball team's loss to Franklin University, the defending state champs, 10 the first round of the state tourna­ment on Thursday. 
The team played about as well as could be expected. The defense played so well it forced 35 Franklin turnovers. The offense moved the ball effec­tively. thr~>Ughout the. game, resultmg 10 a number of open shots for the Irish. This, however, is where the problems occurred , too. The Notre · Dame women just could not buy a hoop. 
Typical of the Irish luck, or lack of such, was a point late in the game when the girls were attem~;>ting to come back from a 13 po10t second-half deficit. ND had just cut the lead to eight when Carola Cummings stole the ensuing in-bound pass, and had an uncontested lay-up. She put the ball up 
softly, and it rolled around the 
rim twice-before falling off. 

Numerous Franklin turnovers 
resulted in a number of oppor­
turnities for the Irish, many of 
which ended up just like Caro­
la's. But desptte the bad luck, 
the girls still managed to cut 
the lead to six, 64-58, on a 
lay-up by Maggie Lally with 
2:56 left to the game. The Irish coufd get no closer however. After a Franklin timeo~t, .the Grizzlyettes wer;tt to thetr btg gun; and the game s leading scorer, Colleen Sexton, 
who dropped in four of her 28 points. Her last bucket with 
0:22 remaining sealed the Irish fate, g~ving Franklin a 69-62 edge. A basket by Pat Meyer· made the final margin five. 
The Irish did display bal­anced scoring--senior Carol Lally, playing her final ga~e in an Irish uniform, teamed with freshman Tricia McManus to lead the way. Each ...d H) points. Meyer, the team's other graduate, had 8 points, as 
••~ 1\~lt:.. r 
'' 

Chicago Circle may hesitate in coming back to Notre Dame, after the unpleasant treatment they got from the Irish on Saturday. Notre Dame won 11 of 15 events, and also swept the first three places in six events, 
as re they raised cord. to 4-1.  their  indoor  
The  Irish  got  some  strong  

effons froin team members racing for the final time in­doors. Senior Steve Welch started off the running events impressively, as he won the mile run, running an excellent indoor time of 4:11.07. Tom Ferenc, another senior, opened the field events with a win in the shot put, with a dis.tance of 51 feet, two inches. 
Graduate student Arnie Gough had a very successful 
did juniors Jane Politiski, Molly Cashman, and Cummings. Maggie Lally's 6 points, Missy Conboy's 4, and Patty O'Bri­en's 2 closed out the scoring. 
Franklin outrebounded Notre Dame 49-39. Carol Lally led ND with 7, while Conboy and Politiski each had 5. 
For the game, the Irish could hit on only 24 of 75 field goal .attempts, and 16 of 34 free throw attempts. In contrast, Franklin hit 42% of their· action shots, and 63% of their free throws. That, for all intents and purposes, was the game. 
Jeersface Badgers 


inplay-offs 
by Brian Beglane Sports Writer 

MADISON Wis.--Mter setting 
up camp at the Ramada Inn here 
for the past two days, the Notre 
Dame hockey · team returns to 
action toni~ht at the1 Dane 
County Cohseum in the first 
round of the Western Collegiate 
Hocke~ Association pla¥offs. 
The Ir1sh find themselves up 
against the same team which 
swept them over the weekend, 
the Wisconsin Badsers. 

Notre Dame f101shed the · regular season in ftfth place with a 17·14-1 league re.cord while Wisconsin ended fourth 
with a 19-11-2 WCHA mark. 
The big difference in the 
records, however, comes from 
the respective streaks each club 
brings into this two-game,
total,gpal series. The Badgers
ar~ flying high with a six-game 
win streak while the Irish closed 
· out the year by dropping four .· over Marquette and Me 76-72 win over the Irish. 
straight games. • Notre "Dame Coach Digger Phelps was 
"I don't think the fact we have convinced by what he saw from DePaul, 
lost our last four games," prompting htm to name the Demons as "the 
commented Notre Dame 
Coach Lefty Smith, ·"or the fact . Cinderella team ofthis year's tournament." The 
we just lost two in a row to quickness, especially on defense, of DePaul 
Wisconsin will hurt us in this guards Gary Garland and Clvde Bradshaw. 
playoff se~ies. If anyt~in~, I. coupled with the steady play of freshman 
feel tt will be a mottvanng forward Mark Aguirre, should be enough to get 
factor for us. We know we M~yer and Company to the regional finals. 
aidn't play our best this week­
end, and know it is a: matter of But as the tourney progresses, the Demons 
going out and playing up to our should run out of steam. Meyer told reporters 
[continued on page 7] Friday night that' 'Ifwe have four or five days to 
L "'~< ' ~ ~ ' '.,,: ~i' · · · ~ ' , 
afternoon, as he won the 60Jard dash in 6.37 seconds, an then came back to take the 60-yard high hurdles in 7.42 seconds. 
Finally, senior Jeff Anderson won the long jump at 21 feet, 8 81/.l inches, and placed third in the 60-yard dash. 
In other distance events, Jim Slatterly took the 880-yard run in 1:56.10, Peter Burger won the 1000-yard run in 2: 15.57, and Marc Novak was victorious in the two-mile run in 9:14.84. 
In the field events, Perry Stow won the pole vault at 15 feet six inches, just missing at 16 feet, which would have broken his own record, set last 
week. Also Ahmad Kazimi paced an Irish sweep in the triple jump, as he won the event witli a leap of 47 feet, 1I4 inches. 
Finally, in the· last event of the day,]im Christian held off a furious charge by Circle's Herb McKenley to take the mile relay. Also running for the Irish were Jay Miranda, Jacques Eadv, and Chuck 
[continued on page · 
In West Regional 



DePauljust a little too thi 
Ray Meyer was so jubilant Friday night after his DePaul ca~eis stopped Notre Dame's second-ranked lnsh, that he seemed to have a little difficulty letting all of his thoughts known. 
But he did make a point of the progress his 
quintet made from November to M.arch. Said the 37th-year coach, who is not often given to hyperhoiel, "if I would have told you at the beg10nm~ of the season that we would be 22-4 now, you d have told me I belong in the boobie hatch." 
What Meyer was told instead, was that he belonged out West-with his ball club, of course--to partake .in the NCAA West Regional, with a number two seedin~ to ~op it off. 
All well and good for a team that was virtually forgotten last fall when the pollsters attempted to be analytical. All well and good, that is, except that DePaul's season will more than likely end in the same locale, and against the same opponent, that the Demons opened the 
season. ·· 
' l!CLA, which soundly whipped the Chtcagoans, 108-85, way back on November 25th at Pouley Pavilion appears to be headed to the West Regional championship and a spot among the nation's Final Four. 
Which doesn't necessarily count the Demons 
. out of the picture, but makes it difficult for themselves and other West Regional particip­ants such as Marquette, San Francisco and Southern Cal. 
DePaul carries 22-5 record into second-round action against the winner of the Southern Cal-Utah State game. Although having troubles 
1 1 th D ' 
in last ni~ht's101-99 oss to Loyo a, e emons · recent w10s include a 61-60 controversial thriller 
Senior Steve Welch races to the tape in his. impressive 
4:11.07 mile win Saturday. [Photo by]ohn Macor] 
Paul Mullaney 
prepare tor a game, we'll do all right." That 
time should be enough to get the Demons through their ftrst game and a third-round encounter against probable opponent 
Marquette. But when the UCLA encounter would be only two days after a victory over Marquette, DePaul 
would be physically unfit to test the bigger, 
deeper, and just as quick Bruin. . While DePaul's sixth-man averages only 1.6 
points a game while seeing very limited action, 
UCLA can afford to interchange Gig Sims, Kiki 
V andeweghe, ] ames Wilkes and Darrell Allums on the front line alon~ with David Greenwood, a ftrst-team All-Amencan for two consecutive years. 
And as not to add insult to injury, the Bruins boast the backcoun combination ofBrad Holland and Roy Hamilton, whose names are trulY' "household" in athletic circles. The addition of Tyren Naulls, a 6-4 freshman who helped hand 
Notre Pame its only home loss of the 1978-79 season, has helped Gary Cunningham's national title hopes look much better. 
The Bruins are a complete basketball team-­they are un~elfish, they can run, they can shoot, they can board, etc., etc., etc. In fact, the Bruins are _virtually guaranteed advancement to 
meet probable opponent San Francisco in the regional semifinals. Their ftrst game, against the winner of the Utah-pepperdine contest, will be .~layed on their home coun at Pauley Pavilion. 
Marquette remains a darkhorse in the West Regional. Sam Worthen's presence while controlling the Warrior offense has lifted Hank Raymonds' club far above its pre-season 
expectancy. Bernard Toone can mix it up with 
the best· of them underneath, also, but it won't 
be enough. 
Enough, that is, to stop UCLA from gaining a 
Final Four berth. 
· · 




