

VOL. XIII, NO. 93 ' 
ND elects RocheNita in landslide 
by Dan Letcher StaffReporter 
The Norre Dame student body overwhelmingly voted the Roche/Vita ticket mto office in yestnday's Student Body Pres­tdent--Vice President elections. With 55% of the student body voting, Roche/Vita received 2,342 votes(62.6%). 
In other election results yes­terday, students voted in favor of d~ Nesde's boycott and called for rhe creatton of an off-campus commissioner. [See related ston·es. Pg 7] 
The Roche/Vita ticket defeat­ed both the tickets of Heany I VerBerkmoes and Portman/­Widey. The Heaney ticket garnered 83.6 votes (27. 5%) compareJ to the Portman tic­ket's 369 votes(9. 9%). 
'We are pleased with the results' 
The Koche ticket earned every hall on campus, with the exception of Holy Cross and Carroll Halls, which both went for the Heany ticket. Roche garnered his largest number of votes in his home hall of Grace, where 295 of the .residents gave 


/
/ 
l 

him their support. Heany ran second in every hall except Portman's dorm--Fianner-­Btl/ Roche andBtl/ Vita celebrate with supporters after their victory in the SBP I SBVP elections. 
which gave Portman 33% of the vote, good enough for a second place finish there. 
"We are very pleased with the results and grateful to all 

Byrne upsets Bilandic in Chicago primary
those who helped out in this campaign. We couldn't have done it without them," Roche CHICAGO (AP)-J ane Byrne "We are going to get the city votes, or 50.96 percent, and larities were running about 25 
stated. ~set Mayor Micha~l A. _Bilan­working a~ain," Mrs. Byrne Bilandic had . 383,715 votes, or percent ahead of the 1977 "While campaigning, Bill dtc in the Democratic pnmary, told cheenng supporters late 49.03 percent. mayoral campaign, the Chicago 
and I were told by many that no handing a stunning defeat last yesterday. "We are going to Bilandic came near conced­Board of Election Commission­night to the man who fired her
matter who is elected, Student get it moving again.'' ing defeat earlier when he went ers said. Government will be ineffec­from city government and to the With 2,990 out of 3,100 before his followers. Four people were arrested,tive.'' Vita commented after the party machine once considered precincts reporting, or 96 per­including a precinct captain
''If the present trend contin­
[continued on page 6] the nation's strongest. cent, Mrs. Byrne had 398,742 who was charged with tam!Jer­
ues it appears that Mrs. Byrne will be the nominee of the ing with a voting mach me, Democratic Party, and Heather voting more than once and
650evacuated (his wife) and I extend our disregarding the election code, congratulations,'' he said. police said. 
• "It's looking like victory," The Board of Election Com­
missioners estimated about 49said Don Rose, Mrs. Byrne's
Stalled train ~eaks toxic gas 
percent, or 697,000, of thecampaign manager. "But it's city's 1,4 million registerednot definitive yet. The size of
by Michael Onufrak said, adding that he teared an explosiOn was votes cast ballots. .
this margin is so small that itpossible and that, "Half the city could have gove could be whisked away at any A small minority of the voters
up." 

moment . . . You never know took kepublican ballots. Wal­Toxic gas, leaking from a loose unloading Hanna then assisted the movement of what happens in the midni~ht lace ) ohnson, an investmentvalve on a railroad tank car stalled above the evacuees from the nearby Plaza Hotel to the hours of a Chicago election. ' banker who was the endorsed corner of Bronson Ave. anq Michigan St., County City Building. Evacuated citizens had GOP candidate, took an earlycaused the evacuation of approximately 650 congregated at the Plaza, located next door to Rose said Mrs. tlyrne wou10 7-to-1lead over Ray Wardingly, 
people just south of downtown South Bend last Hanna's establishment, north of the halted not claim victory until all the a ·taxi driver running on a
~rain on· Michigan St. The ev~cuation proceeded votes had been tallied and said
night. minimal budget.
The Conrail freight train. enroute from Pine, 10 an ttrderly manner, accordmg to witnesses. he asked the state's attorney's Bilandic, f6, a iawyer, busi­
In. to Elkhart rolled to a halt at 6:11 p.m. when Police identified the leaking gas a office to check for possible nessman, and alderman fromrailroad officials stopped to check the train's ·naphthalene, a white, crystalline, aromatic fraud. 
Daley's Bridgeport neighbor­brakes. As soon as the train was stopped hydrocarbon used in the manufacture of certain Chicagoans went to the polls hood, was ·appointed interim 
officials discovered the leak. dye and moth repellents. Officials. emphasized in about average numbers un­mayor at Daley's death and
According to police, no one was injured as a that it was a highly toxic gas. 
der blue skies and above-freez­easily won a special primary in
result of the lead and residents were allowed to Evacuees remained away from their homes ing temperatures. The weather 1977 to fill out his term. 
return to their homes once the train began aQd businesses ·and the area remained closed was in stark contrast to a bitter Mrs. Byrne, 43, was a mem­
moving again. The train resumed its journey at until approximately 8 p.m. winter that helped shape the ber of Daley's and Bilandic's
7:57p.m. .., The evacuation included the residential area issues in a spirited campaign Cabinets before she was fired) ames A. Hanna, owner' of the Ramrod, a local and small business district bounded by Taylor some observers believed could last year after accusing Bilandic 
tavern situated a block and a half from the St., Webster Ave., Sample St., and River St. 
put the vaunted political ma­of illegally facilitating ·taxi cab
leaking tank car, said police and flre department Also included in the area was a senior citizen chine of long-time Mayor Rich­fare increases. A federal grand officials notified him to "lock up and get every high rise apartment building. ard J. Daley to a real test. 
jury, which investigated her
body out at about 6:45 p.m." By 9:30p.m., traffic was flowing and the area The number of complaints of allegations, returned no indict­"I just grabbed my coat and got out," Hanna returned to its usual Tuesday night routine. vote fraud and election irregu­ments. 


r------------------------· 
' 'Roots II' 'achzeves second · highest ratitzg ever 
NEW YORK (AP)-Nearly ope-third of the homes in the nation with 1V watched at least part of ''Roots: The Next Generations," and the minisenes helped ABC to the second-highest weekly rating on record, figures released yesterday by the A.C. Nielson Co. show. ABC's research department estimated 110 million people saw all or part of "Roots II," as the sequel to the network's record-setting miniseries was called:-The estimated audi.ence for "Roots," broadcast Jan. 23-30, 1977, was 130 million. "Roots Il" delivered an average rating of 30.1 for seven episodes. The original resistered an average rating of 44.9 for eight chapters, with a high of 51.1 for the conclusion. Nielsen says that means of all the homes in the country with 1V, and average of 30.1 percent saw all or pan of "Roots II." 
Small crowds mark ' 'dead' ' Mardi Gras in New Orleans 
NEW ORLEANS (AP)-One of the smallest crowds in years celebrated Mardi Gras in the French Quarter yesterday as a 12-day-old police strike that stripped the holiday of its elaborate parades sent thousands ofrevelers to the suburbs. While some revelers held a mock jazz funeral for Mardi Gras in front ofSt. Louis Cathedral, National Guardsmen and state police, many of them seeing the holiday for the first time, patrolled the area in the absence of the strikin_g city officers. ''I hereby declare Mardi Gras 1979 to be officially dead,'' shouted New Orleans Coroner Frank Minyard, standing atop a coffin labeled Bad Spirits. "And I officially open Mardi Gras 1980 now." It was a brash moment of Carnival in the midst of the annual boozy street part in the French Quarter. 
Ship catchesfire of! North Carolina coast 
,. 

PORTSMOUTH, Va. (AP)-the merchant ship St. Chris, with 40 men aboard, caught fue in the Atlantic off the North Carolina coast yesterday, but the ftre was extinguished, the Coast Guard reponed. A Coast Guard spokesman said one man aboard the 720-foot bulk ore carrier was reponed missing and two other ships were standing by to evacuate the rest ofthe crew, ifnecessary. The cargo ship Trinity and the tanker El Paso Southern were reponed standing _by at the scene, 300 miles southeast of Cape Hatteras. The Trinity was searching for the missing crewman, who was presumed to have fallen overboard, the Coast Guard said. 
Weather 
Increasing cloudiness with a slight chance of light rain today. 
Highs around 40. Cloudy with periods of light rain tonight. Lows in the mid 30s. Thursday periopds of rain becoming mixed with and changing to show. Highs in the mid to upper 30s. 
amn

C 
~:::!!:!!:!!!::::====== .FThe Observer 
11:30 am --MASS, ash wednesday· services, SACRED HEART CHURCH 
12:n ~'!I --MASS, fr. robert griffm, LAFORTUNE BAllROOM 
12:15 pm ·· SEMINAR "the oncolytic effects of very low density lipoprotein (vldl~" dr. sham-yuen chan, nd. GALVIN AUD. 
3:25pm--SEMINAR, "a thermodynamics approach to the design of heat exchan~ networks," prof. 1owell koppel,pur<fue u., 269 CHEM. ~NGR. BLDG. 
5_Q_m .. MASS, ash wednesday services, SACRED HEART. CHURCH 
5:15pm--FASTER'S MASS, WALSH CHAPEL 
6:30pm--MEETING, sailing club, 204 O'SHAG 
7 & 10 pm --MOVIE, "the godfather," ENGR. AUD., sponsored by the sophomore class 
7 pm --BLACK CUL'TIJRAL ARTS FESTIVAL, "politics: the state of the african revolution," HAYES HEALY AUD. 
7:30 pm --AMERICAN SCENE CULTURAL SERIES, "the rm1ern presidency," doris kearns, harvard ul, CARROLL HAlL SMC 
8 pm --LECTURE, ·'the concept of thinking,'·' norman rmlrolm, cornell u.·, GALVIN AUD. 
10:30 pm -· MASS>!. ash wednesday service, BUlLA SHED 
j 
'"" .. A • 


Hamilton appointed 
The appointment of Robert L. Hamilton, Jr., president of Du­more Company, Racine, Wis., to the advisory council of the Col­lege of Business Administration at the University of Notre Dame has been announced by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president. He will serve a • three-year term. 
Pope recieves skiers ~ 
VATICAN . CI1Y (AP)-Pope . John Paul II, an enthusiastic skier himself until he became pntiff Jast year, received the national team of boy skiers from his native Poland onTuesday, 
the vatican announced. 
Night Editor: Margie Brassil Asst. Night Editor: Margaret Kruse Copy Reader: Mark Rust, Mike Onufrak Layout Staff: Rod Beard Sports Lyout: Greg Solman, Frank LaGrotta Typists: Tricia Meehan, Nancy Morris, Betsy Masa­na, Rosie Rodgers EMT: Pete McFadden Day Editor: Keith Melaragno Ad Layour: David E. Wood, Flo O'Connell Photographer: Cate Magen­nis 
The Observer [USPS 598 9201 is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is pulllished by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year [$10 per semesterj from The Observer. P.O. box 
0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second claso postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Taxpayer 
11sescents 
to get even 

with IRS 
NARRAGANSETT, R.I. (A.tJ) -Ever want to gi,·e tax collectors a penny for your thoughts? Paul A. Southland did. He paid his tax bill with 12,016 pennies. 
The collector, Thomas Moon, refused to take Southland's personal check for $120.16 last week. Monday, Southland brought in an 80-pound bucket of pennies to get even. 
Moon didn't know what to do about a receipt. But Town Manager Donald ) . Martin made out a receipt for "One pail of pennies ... not counted by the town at this time.'' 
8uy Classifieds from 
The ·Observer 

Ash Wednesday Services 
Sacred Heart Church 
11 :30am Fr. John Gerber, c .s.c. 
5:00pm Fr. Bill Toohey, c.s.c. 

Positions on thel 1979-80 




OBSERVER NOW OPEN 
contact Rosemary at 7471 and submit astatement on the position that you are interested in 
deadline for applications 3:00pm Fri. ,March 2 
The Observer VVednesday,February28,1979-page3 

by John McGrath Senior StaffReporter 
Two marriage and family experts discussed human sex­uality last night before an overflow crowd in the Architec­ture Building Auditorium. 
·'Sexual behavior does not even have a language," ob­served Richard Hey, professor and head of Family Social Science at the University of Minnesota. ·'We can talk about it (sexuality) in terms of dirty words, in clinical terms, or jokingly, but we don't have many real ways of talking about our sexuality.'' 
Juanita Evans Leonard, a marriage and family counselor from Indianapolis, agreed with Hey, and joined with him in an opening, free-wheeling 40 min­ute discussion of topics that included sex roles and a field of study known as "sex object preference identity. '' 
Hey acknowledged that sex­ual preferences are known to be influenced by such factors as psychoanalysis, hormones, and socialization, but he admitted that there is no definitive scientific explanation of all sexual behavwr. 
"We do not really know the bottom line in why we choose to be homosexual or heterosex­ual,'' Hey remarked. • 'There 


Carter, Begin to nteet 
W A.SHINGTON [APJ-President Carter said yesterday that Is­raeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin has decided to come here for '• a frank discussion of all the issues" in the stalled peace treaty talks. 
Carter told a news conference that after he sees Begin, who is due here tomorrow evening, he will consider asking Egyptian President Anwar Sadat or Prime Minister Mustafa Khalil here as well. 
'Begin refused to attend talks because Sadat decided not to' 
The announcement followed Begin's refusal to attend a Camp D..tvid summit with Car­ter and Khalil. The Israeli Cabinet turned down that invi­tation on a 14-2 vote. [see related story page 4] 
Carter said he talked by telephone after the Cabinet action with both Begin and Sadat. He stressed the import­ance of completing a treaty and that he hoped h1s talks· with Begin would lead to an early resumption of negotiations. 
Earlier, an Israeli official said Begin refused to attend the talks because Sadat decided not to pnrticipate and E~ypt had hardened its bargainmg posi­tion. 
Carter expressed regret about the Israeli Cabinet deci­sion. He said he was concerned about the impact on peace prospects. 
At the same time, Carter said Egyptian and Israeli delega: tions meeting at Camp Davtd last week with Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance had demonstrated they shared the view that wrapping ur a treaty was an urgent necesstty. 
The ori~inal arrangement for the negotiations at Camp David called Khalil to deal with the details, Naftali Lavi, an adviser to Israeli Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan, told The Asso­ciated Press. 
However, Lavi said, tl,e in­tention was for Sadat to tK a: the Maryland mountain retreat prepared to initial treaty terms tf compromises could be struck on the Palestinians and other tssues. 
But as U.S., Egyptian and Israeli officials discussed the arrangements last week at Camp David, Sadat's participa­tion became increasingly doubt­ful, Lavi said. 

are still a lot of questions." 
He concluded, however, that 
culture plays a large part in 
determining human sexual 
preferences. "Social taboos are 
really prohibitive against being 
any~~ing other than heterosex­
ual. 

Leonard added that there has 
been a recent relaxation in the 
rigid norms of which Hey spoke 
of, however. 
"Now, as adults, we still 
have choices (in our sexual 
preferences),'' Leonard ob­
served. "We're still not in 
those boxes (rigidly-enforced 
sex roles)--we're able to form 
the kind of relationships that we 
want.'' 
After the initial discussion, 
Leonard and Hey opened the 
floor for questions from the 
audience. 
One audience member asked 
the exrerts to indicate their 
professiOnal position on pre­
marital sex, inquiring what 
criteria they thought should be 
e_x;;tmined before making a de­
ctston. 
"I could not make that deci­sion apart from a value sys­tem,'' Hey responded. He listed several factors that can influence such decisions, in­cluding educational goals, the meaning of sex to each partner, religious background, mascu­linity and femininity, and each partner's ability to handle the feelings that are inherent in such a relationship. 
The two experts also re­sponded to a question about sex education. "Sex education is a very important thing to be done in groups--but it should come before you get so hot that you can't do anything (control your behavior)," Hey commented. 
However, a large portion of sexual behavior depends on individual experience, Leonard added. 
"Sexual behavior is the only human behavior that is not imitated," she remarked. 
One of the last questions 
1.dressed to Leonard and Hey concerned the effects of the women's liberation movement on society's .ual norms. When questioned whether in some cases, the movement had gone too far in changing '>ocie­ty's ideas, Leonard responded, "I think that some 'super females' have gone overboard, but as we go on, I think we'll find a new balance in sex roles.'' 


China shows no easing of border conflict 
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) ­China reported yesterday that Vietnamese troops launched several counter-mvasions into Chinese territory in the previous few days, but were driven back each time. 
Intelligence sources here said China appears to show no intention of withdrawing from Vietnam and has even moved to reinforce its troops along Viet­nam's northeastern .front; where some of the Vietnamese incursions reportedly took place. 
In his bluntest commet on the 10-day conflict, President Carter asked China yesterday to undertake "a speedy with­drawal" from Vietnam. The request was in a message given to top Chinese leaders by Treasury Secretary W. Michael Blementhal, who is visiting Peking. 

~ In Washington, Carter said at a news conference that he has made known to the Chinese his "firm disapproval" of their invasion but said it would be counterproductive to terminate the newfound bilateral relations with Peking. The Vietnamese, meanwhile, claimed that they wiped out 2000 Chinese soldiers in four day:\., 800 of them Monday in clashes along the northeastern coastal front. In the northwest, Vietnam re­ported its troops were locked in combat with the Chinese 15 miles inside Vietnam along the banks of the Red River, the vital water corridor to the capital of 
Hanoi. 
The official Chinese news agency Ksinhua reported Tues­day from Peking that a battalion ofVietnamese troops attacked a commune onthe Khangsi bor­der Sunday, but Chinese soldiers and militiamen fought back, wiping out some of the invading troops and driving the rest back across the border. 
This was the first time during the border war that Hsiwhur reported a Vietnamese invasion of Chinese territory. The official agency has carried only a few items about the war, 
mostly accounts of Chinese soldiers described in heroic terms. It has carried no detailed acco<~nts of fighting, and no Chinese casualty fig­ures. 
Western reporters have been barred from covering the war on the various fronts. Most information comes from Chinese and Vietnamese broad­casts. 
Hanoi claims to have killed more than 16,000 Chinese since Peking invaded Feb. 17. Intel­ligence sources consider that figure inflated. 
China has not given casualty figures, but in Tokyo, Japan's Kyoso News Service reported classified Chinese reports list about 17,000 Vietnamese 
•'.wiped out'' in the first week of fighting. The news service atributed its information to Chinese sources in Peking. 
Tre official voice ofVietnam Radio -said the most concen­
[continued on page 10} 

..
); -.~ .. ­
K: ... 
_:-'. 
-~_-.:-;.·:.. 
··-· 

tThe ObserVer Wednesday, February 28, 1979-page 4 
J-· 

Llsrael 
r:_-·­
;: 
f;~balks at Mideast 
•


SUDlDllt 

JERUSALEM (AP)-Israel's ca6inet rejected President Car­ter's call fro a Mideast summit y~ster~ay and accused Egypt of suffemn_g terms for a treaty. The actton plunged t~e pc;ace process to a low pomt smce Egyptian President Anwar Sadat' s historic trip to Jerusa­lem 15 months ago. 
Egypt and Israel indicated the next move is up to the United States. An administration spokesman in Washington said initial White House reaction was one "of grave concern about what the decision means for the peace process" but withh~ld elab_oration pending more mformauon. 
The scuttled Camp David sum­mit would have involved Carter, 

Carter reveals standby 
Today our display mxlel of this SONY CD~qMN18ftt, Reg. $900 is 25 percent off 



fuel rationing plan 
· The Audio Specialists is running its annual Demo Dutch Auction Sale. The way it work:., ts 
It is now evident to tfie Cab­inet that in those talks no progress was made ... ,'' Beginsaid. "On the contrary a more extreme position was presented
audio by_ the Egyptian defe_gation. '' The Cabmet said Begm would meet Carter "at any time" toAUDIO SPECIAliSTS, 401 N. MICHIGAN, SOUIHBEND, IN. 46601. PHONE: 234-5001. 

discull issues blocking an agreement or U.S.-Israili prob­lems. 
Later, after Be_gin met with Sen. Lowell PI Weicker, R­Conn., Begin said, ''There will be a next step. Believe me, there will be__peace."
Israeli officials said the next move must come from Wash­
· simiple: On February 10 all demos in our Audio & Video departments were marked at 10% WASHINGTON (AP)-Presi­. off suggested list. Eve!-)' bus~ness day the price wil~ drop 1% per day until a component is dent Carter revealed a standby · sold. Only one of each 1tem willbe sold at the sale pnce. The sale ends February 28th when 
gasoline rationing plan yester­everything remaining will be 25% off 
day as a last-resort emergency measure and other fuel-saving 
~The pressure is on! Buy early and get the best selection or gamble and wait for even bigger actions, stating that he has no 
-deals. 

present intention of putting them into effect. 
Ail tape pnces are discounted by the same amounts during the sale and anyone bringing in 
Carter said at a news confer­
this adwill get another 2% offal/prices. Come in and Save!! 

The world needs more power than it can presently produce. This. is 
wh~re E_BASCO comes in. We are a world leader in the design, 
engmeenng, development, and construction of fo.;sil-fuel nuclear and 
hydroelectric power generating facilities for industries 'utilities ' and 
governments in every corner of the globe. ' ' 

Founded almost 75 years ago, EBASCO is not only the foremost ccmpany i"n power engineering, we are also one of the fastest growing. The lists of projects in which we are involved are as long as they are exciti!'Q and challenging. 
:Vou couldn't choose a m~>r.e rewarding fi~l~ than power engineering to mvest your talents, trammg, and amb1hons. It offers continuous opportunities for personal involvement and career advancement, and keeps you abreast of the newest technologies in your specialty. 

OFFICES IN 
Israeli Pri~e Minister Mena­prest~ge for the sake of peace,''chem Begin and Egypsian he sata. Prime Mimster Mustafa Khalil. The Cabinet statement said 
A message from Begin detail­five days of ministerial-level ing__the Cabinet action arrived talks at Camp David last week in-washington for Carter later produced "no progress" and yesterday. The contents were that Khalil made new proposals not disclosed but an admin­that "nullify the meaning of a istration official said the mes­peace treaty." sage "would give us a better Insiders said Begin argued at sense of wliat it means.'' the six-hour Cabmet meeting
Several Israeli ministers re­that the Egyptian stand made a. portedly were unhappy that summit pomdess. They said Sadat ptcked Khalil to negotiate that onlY. Da):'an and Defense for him, but no mention of that Minister Ezer W eizman favored was in the Cabinet statement the invitation. Fourteen mem­read ~ a somber-faced Begin. ber~, i~cluding Begin, voted 
Begin later said the Sadat­a~amst tt. Khalil controversY. was ''an The Cabinet decided that the 
issue" but not the decisive prime minister is not in a factor in the Cabinet decision. position to accept the proposed"I would forego this issue of meeting with Dr. Klialil," Be~in told a throng of reporters 
ence he does not want to impose stringent restraints on fuel use whtch could impose 
Career openings exist in the following disciplines: MECHANICAL • NUCLEAR • ELECTRICAL CIVIL • CHEMICAL • CONSTRUCTION 
We will be interviewing on campus March 14 
No~ that you know a little bit about EBASCO and what we do, we'd like to find out something 11bout you and your career a!>pirations. See us o'h campus or write to: College Relations Supervisor, EBASCO Services, 
Inc., Two Rector Street, New York, N.Y. 10006. 
ington, but said it was difficult to see how the stalemate could be broken. 
The armed forces radio how­ever, q_l!oted unidentified Cab­inet olticers as saying theybelieved the decision woula force E_gypt to back down on some orits demands. 
In Cairo, Khalil said the prob­lem now is between Carter and Begin. ''Is it I who extended the invitation? Let him who extended the invitation talk to (Begin) " Khalil said. 
Israeli officials said the "link­age" question of how the treaty sfiould relate to Palestinian self-rule in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip remained a major obstacle 6ut they refused to elaborate. 
Begin said the new Egyptian J:>roposals contradicted the Camp David accords of last September, the result of the first Carter-Begin-Sadat sum­mit, which outlined the peacetreaty and a plan for Palestinian autonomy.
Khalil denied Egypt had tough­ened its stand. "Egypt's P.osition has not changed, we aid not present any new propos­al," he said. "Egypt held to its position. We discussed this for hours and hours. They asked for rephrasing. We made reph­rasing. We talked and talked as I triea to persuade them," he said. 
unemployment on the nation, but that it is wise to have the plans ready bjust in case they are ever needed. 
The president said he would send Congress, early next month, proposals for additional measures, presumably less stringent, wfiich he might use to ease the impact of shorta_gesresulting from the current loss of Iranian oil production. 
The plan is to be submitted formally on Thursday to Con­gress, which then has 60 days to approve or disapprove them. They would not take effect unless the president declared a national energy emergency, and they could be blocked by a negative vote of either house of Congress. 
Under the proposed standby plan, gasoline would, if neces­sary, be rationed by mailing gasoline allotment "checks" to owners of registered vehicles, 
to  be  "cashed  in"  for  ration  
~ou~on~  at  banks  or  other  
mstttuttons.  

"Countries" conference regtstratton 
All students who wish to participate in the Less Devel­oped Countries Conference this coming weekend must register today or tomorrow in the stu­dent government offices in the second floor of LaFortune. A $3 fee is required. 


ADAPTneeds volunteers 
The Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment Pro­gram (ADAPT) of the Mental Health Center of St. Joseph County is in need of volunteers for its prevention program. 
Individuals interested in helping
New York City•Jericho, Long lsland•Lyndhurst, N.J. 
adolescents in small groups im­
: r-'S"-· Atlanta, Georgia •Newport Beach, California 
prove their communication sKills
1 

and decision making abilities can 

~ ~ ItJIL..~ ADAPT
-.---.__..._..a.....at-................. Services Incorporated contact the office · at 234-6011, ext. 327, for informa~CONSTRUCTORS tion regarding the program and 
its volunteer training schedule. 
The Observer 

Humanities fellowship 

open 
The Indiana Committee for the Humanities (ICH) announces an open competition for a six month to one year fellowship in human­ities, science and technology. A non-profit organization estab­lished to support humanities programs, ICH is asking for applicants who have a master's degree or doctorate in the hu­manities or sciences, an interdis­ciplinary background and exper­ience in public discussion or teaching. 
The fellowship will support an individual who will travel throughout the state presenting public humanities programs on scientific or technological de­velo,Pment. Programs should begm between ] une 1 and Octo­ber 31 this year. All preliminary applications must be postmarked by February 23. 
Applicants are asked to submit a detailed resume and a letter explaining ideas about the con­tent or format of programs which could be developed to: Humanities/Science Fellowship The Indiana Committee for the Humanities 4200 Northwestern Avenue Indianapolis, Indiana 46208 
Semi-finalists will be notified by March 1S and a ftnal decision will be announced by mid-May. 
The maximum award for salary and fringes will be $18,000. Stipends will be based on current salary, fringes, training and ex­perience and on the proposed projet:t's length. Supplemental funds will be available for travel, printing and office expenses. 
For more information contact 

ICH at the previously mentioned 
address or call (317) 92~-Bl6. 
Wednesday, February 28, 1979-page 5 
Inlast night's rneeting 


HPC avoids parietals issue 
by Robert Powers StaffReporter 

The HaU Presidents' Council (APC) voted unanimiously last night to change the name of the Rockne Trophy to the Andy Sowder Trophy, in memory of the Cavanaugh senior who died last week of meningitis. 
The Rockne Trophy is award­ed periodically to commend a particluar hall for its activities. 
Neither parietals nor the month old Carroll Hall parietals abolition movement were dis­c.ussed during the meeting. 
HPC Chairman Chuck Del Grande said in an interview after the meeting, "We are not really sure of the general student opinion as a result of the survey. "Del Grande point­ed out that only 65% of the students on campus participat­ed in the survey, and that although 86% expressed some dissatisfaction wtth parietals, the results of the survey did not reflect the extent to which the concensus of students were willing to change parietals. 
Carroll Hall resident Tim Coonan said Carroll residents will wait until the hall council elections before submitting a proposal on parietals to the HPC. Meanwhile, Carroll residents have been voicing their opposition to oarietals 
through non-official ch-annels. At a Saturday night dinner in Stepan Center Carroll residents handed junior parents a letter denouncing the administration for its violation of student rights 

Other announcements made 
at the meeting included: -The Board of Commissioners recommended a scholarship of $500 be given in the name of Andy Sowder. The possibility is being discussed at _present with the Admissions Office. -This year, $100, along with the James E. Brogan Award, will be given to the hall or organi­zation which shows the most interest in An Tosta1. -Zahm Hall won ftrst place in the snow sculpture contest, with Keenan talcing second, and Sorin in third place. 
:Studen may speak over break 
m thetr Ngn schools to home­town prospective Notre Dame students as part of the admis­sions program. Interested 
students should contact Rick Govvic, Student Government Academic Commissioner at 7757. 
Cleveland voters give city boost 
(AP)-Cleveland voters gave their financially pressed city a boost by overwhelmingly ap­proving an increase in the city payroll tax. Voters foUowed the recommendations of Mayor Dennis J. Kucinich, however, and rejected a proposal to sell the city-owned electric utility. 
In Kansas City, Mo., early returns showed Mayor Charles 
B. Wheeler trailing two city councilmen in his bid for an unprecedented third term. 
Wallace ] ohnson, an invest­ment banker, had a 7-to-1 lead over Ray Wardingly, a taxi driver,. in the Chicago Republi­can pnmary. 
Tabulations from 500 of Cleveland's 64~ precincts gave the proposal to increase the 
city's payroU tax from 1 percent 
to 1. S percent a 58,703-26,844 
lead. The proposal to sell the 
Municipal Electric Light Sys­
tem trailed 55,492 to 29,316. 
Kucinich and many of his 
political foes supported the tax 
increase to help the city stave 
oh bankruptcy, but the mayor 
bitterly opposed selling the 
utility. 
In Kansas City, with 12 percent of the precincts report­ing, Bruce Watkins took the lead in the non-partisan pri­mary with 33 percent of the votes counted. Richard L. Berkley was second with 2~ percent and Wheeler had 19 percenr. The two top vote-get­ters in the six-person race are to meet in a runnoff March 27. 
ENG G CAREERS AT HONE 


CI GES.IN ADVANCEDTECHNOLOGftS 

For the engineer ready to meet the challenges of modern technology, HONEYWELL's Defense Systems Division provides real growth opportunities and the latest in sophisticated equipment. Major areas of technological advancement will occur in the following: 
• 
Integrated Circuit Design , • Structural Dynamics 

• 
Hydraulics 


• 
Material Science 

• 
Hybrid Circuit Design 

• 
Aerodynamics 


• 
RF Components 

• 
Mission Analysis 

• 
Millimeter Wave Components 


We are seeking exceptional people at all degree levels in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING. Successful applicants will find themselves involved in projects related to the conceptualization, design, development, test and manufacture of products using advanced technologies. 
We can saythatw~ area growing division, but then who isn't these days; we can say that we can offer you a technical challenge, but many others can offer you that too. What we can say that most others can't, is that engineers like to work in the Defense System Division, they like the atmosphere, the exceptional team work, the fact that people can see their ideas put to use, that problems are solved, not covered up-· and best of all individual recognition for your accomplishments. 
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS: 
Wednesday, March 7 
* For other degree opportunities see our schedule in your placement office. 
HONEYWELL INC. Defense Systems Division 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

Honeywell 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Wednesday, February 28, 1979-page 6 



Student body accepts 
• • • Roche

Nestle boycott referendum 
by Michael Lewis News Editor 

After a year of debate and planning, the World Hunger Coalition-sponsored boycott of Nestle's products was accepted yesterday by the Notre Dame student body. The voe in yesterday's Student Body Pres­Idential election would ban Nestle's products and those of its subsidiaries' from Univer­sity dining halls and vending machines. 
Maria Garvey, WHC Coor­dinator, said, "I have a great amount of faith in the student body." She thanked students both in and out of the WHC for their support. 
"Financially, this isn't going to have that much effect on the Nestle Corporation, but it's going to hurt their image. Their reputation is at stake; that's what is going to suffer," <>he explained. 
'I have a great amount of faith in the student body.' 
The referendum was af­firmed at all polling stations, with 2,504 students, or 72%, voting to boycott. 
Fr. John VanWolvlear, vice­president for Student Affairs, mdicated this month the Uni­versity will accept and try to implement the boycott if the student body supports it. 
"C 
~ 
~ 
a ~ 
Election 

90 

Results 
• 

so 
72.0 

70 
I 
I

62.6 
I 

60 
I 
I 
I 

\0 
40 
10 
28.0 
~ 
I
27.5 
I 

LO 
I 
I 
I 


[]] 9.9 
I

10 
I 
2.3
I 
[[] 

Portman-Yes Yes No Vira Vanlkrkmoes Wirley 
F.oche-"Hymt<.. No. 
O·CRepNestles Boycott 
Howe'-:er, Bro. Kieran Ryan, assistant 'vice-president for Business Affairs, said vester­day afternoon that the boycott will be a ' 'policy decision,'' probably reaching University President Fr. Theodore Hes­burgh. He said several admini­strators would discuss the mat­
ter. ''The students are asking Notre Dame to adopt an official, public position. I think Fr. Hesburgh should be consulted; he's the one who will have to answer to the business world when he travels outside the university.'' The controversy centers on Nestle's distribution of infant formula in less developed coun­tries. The formula is not made or distributed in the U.S., but it is produced and sold by Nes­.tle's parents company, the Swiss-based Nestle S.A. The formula is distributed in Eur­ope, Asia, Africa, Australia and Latin America. Consumer groups and the WHC charge that the formula is expensive and hard to use, taking advan­tage of the poverty and lower education level of these coun­tries. These -groups also claim that Nestle promotes the prod­ucts through medical programs and clinics, linking the formula with the medical profession. Nestle, however, asserts that the formula instructions are simple and clear, and that the company employs qualified nurses and midwives to assist health officials in holding cli­nics on the importance of breast 
97.7 

feeding and the proper use of formula products. The com­pany also claims that no adver­tising of formula products is d<?ne in less developed coun­rnes. 
Robert Robinson, senior food service director, said he h;Id no information as of yesterday concerning the boycott. He stated he would wait for a decision from the administra­tion before initiating any action. 
''I'm going to respond to University dictates in this mat­ter, but if the bpycott is on an inidividual basis, I' II get with those students to identify the products and set up an arrange­ment,'' he said. 
Robinson pointed out that he had talked with John Dunbar, WHC co-coordinator, about the boycott and its implementation. 
''I told John if I got the go ahead from the administration he should come in and we would pick a target date for reasonable compliance," Ro­binson said. 
Both Ryan and Robinson said the dining halls would use their present supply of Nestle pro­ducts regardless of the out­
[continued on page 7] 
[continued from page 1 ] style while quoting Adlai Ste­election. ''I strongly disagree venson: ''I feel like an adoles­with this attitude and we will do cent body on a date who everything possible to alter this stubbed hts toe--he didn't want feeling." to cry in front of her. but it hurt 
According to Roche and Vita, too much to not do anything." one of their first steps will The other presidential aspira­include meeting with each hall ant, Portman, commented that council and dorm members to "I don't think the University "clarify our goals. We want to was ready for me." He said he start producmg results and to was disappointed. "I was do this we need to set up an hoping that the students were efficient structure,'' Roche con-ready for something different,'' tinued. Portman continued. 
Presidential hopeful Mike ''When entering something (Hymie) Heany, who ran sec-like this, one has to have a ond in the race, said"the sense ofhumor, and I guess the election was decisive. The joke was on me,'' Portman students cleatly showed they ~dded. ''I loved .the campaign; want Bill Roche." H ymie noted It was a good ume and what that his campaign was appar-else can I say except congrat­ently too liberal for the conser-ulations to the winner and say vative Notre Dame studnet that as long as some students body. He asked all those who supported us it seems worth­voted for him "to give Bill a while," Portman concluded. chance to succeed by support-The Roche/Vita ticket will ing him." start putting together a new 
''Though our approaches and cabinet in the upcoming weeks, attitudes differ, we owe Bill the according to the president-e­chance to succeed," Heany lect. Hesaidhehopesto"geta said. ''I offer my support and lot of people involved in his congratulations to the Roche/· _government" but hopes to Vita ticket. avoid getting tied down in 
Heany said he intends to bureaucratic red tape. return i:o a fun-oriented life-[continued on page 9] 
Off-campus referendum passes 
cept for the first Commissioner, 
by Tom jackman 

who will be appointed by a
StaffReporter 

special committee composed of Student Government officials.
As expected, the referendum The initial Commissioner willproposing an amendment to the then select the fvirst Oil Cam-Student Government Constitu­tion which will add an off campus representative to the 
Board of Commissioners passed overwhelmingly yesterday on the Student Body President ballot. The final margin was by far the largest of the three issues on the ballot, 3582 to 84, a 97.7% majority. 
Of 102 off-campus voters, only one voted against the referendum. Three women's halls voted unanimously in favor of the amendment, Badin, Lyons and Walsh, and no hall cast more than nine negative votes. 
The amendment, which shall take effect immediately, will provide for an ''Off Campus Commissioner (who) shall be a member of the Board of Com­missioners, with powers and duties equal to the other voting members of the Board of Com­misioners." Off campus stu­dents, who number over 2,400 (including graduate students) this year, were previously rep­resented on the Board only by an appointed, non-voting mem­
ber, this year's Off-Campus Coordinator, John Fitzpatrick. 
The new amendment pro­vides that a Commissioner be elected each spring by a majori­pus Council, which will draft by-laws to govern the Council in the future. 
According to the amend­ment, the Commissioner "shall be responsible for the represen­
[continued on page 7] 


We would like to Invite you to explore 
meaningful career opportunities with a 
leading diversified natural resource 
company. 

Positions Available: 
Electrical Staff Engineers Mechanical Staff Engineers Industrial Staff Engineers 
Mead Representative on Campus: 
March 9, 1979 -·william Coulter 
If unable to schedule an interview, send resume to David H. Germann, Mead World Headquarters, Courthouse Plaza, N.E., Dayton, Ohio 45463. 
ty vote of the undergraduate 
*An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
off-campus student body, ex-
r =; 
a • 
of either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson 

_The Observer_ 
as possible. Editorials represent the Manaving Editor . _...... Steve Odland Spons Editor ............ Ray 0 'Bn'en Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chns Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executiv~ Editor ...... Barb unghenry Photo Editor . . . . . . . . . . Doug Christian The Obseroer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor . . . . . . . Rosemary Mills per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor _. . . . . . . . . . . Phil CaciJ.? Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Sa~nt bers of the community, and the free Samt Mary's Editor ...... FJ/en Budt#J Business Manager ........ john Tucker Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Milce Lewis 

The Observer Wednesday, February 28, 1979 -page 7 
• • • Off-cam.pus 
2128179 313179 
[continued from page 6] 
ration of off campus student the Board, we're not going to
OPEN STAGE Anne Denny 
concen!S and hlep to translate take into consideration the view those concerns mto effective of off'campus students. Now policy," and he or she will also with this amendment, we'll
NIGHT 9: 00-1 0:OOpm 
"have the power to appoint have somebody who has a special committees,'' bemg better perspective of off cam­''responsible for the operation pus problems.''
Ifyou don't have 
Jamie Goodrich 
and maintenance of any facili­Regarding the HPC, Roche ties for off campus students hopes to have the Council
Rich Stevenson 

alot ofmaterial SOPH. LITERARY & Friends 
sponsored by the Off Campus functioning "as a Senate, de­Council.'' bating issues,'' and wants to
Bill NielsenFESTIVAL 

Two of the more specific have an off campus representa­
just come in and 10: 00-close 
planks in the rlatform of Presi­tive at these meetings to pre­A preview o,fauthors Luis Alvarez dent-elect Bil Roche were "to sent their viewpoints in the increase 0-C representation by discussions.
play what you know. and works. 

placing representatives on the Leslie Melander, an Off.
Tom Mindock 
Board of Commissioners and Campus commissioner on the the HPC" and to "create an voluntary council that exists at operative 0-C council." Roche present, helped get the referen­
Starts ut 9:OOpm Starts at 9:3Opm Show starts at 9:30 
said last night that ''with seven dum on the ballot, and was very on campus representatives on pleased that it passed by such a 
Next time you get hungry for some­thing really good to eat, head for Hardee's. And bring a friend and this coupon with you. It'll get you the best eatin' in town, up 'n' down, all around. And lots of it. Hardee's Best Eatin' Special. Two of the biggest, most special tastin' sandwiches you have ever sunk your teeth into. And at a price that's real special, too. So special, you're gonna think Hardee's is downright crazy to charge so little for so much fine eatin'. 

r---TiiE •nEA'nN'SPECW: : TWO DEUCIOUS BIG ROAST .EF I SANDWICHES FOR ONLY•t.99. 
I 
Good at all participating Hardee's. Please present this coupon before ordering. 
One coupon per customer, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due on the purchase price. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers. 
I -104 Hively. Elkhart I 
c.oo W B · I Elkhart Coupon exp.res
I -.I fiStO ' U~ .~ . , I
0 

:~~~L~~~i:~~tMi~ nGruRR.r® March 14, 1979 • 

L---------------~~ 
large margin. She pointed out that "now we have a represen­tative who is pretty much on his own, wlio doesn't have to answer to the president.'' She · also noted that the amendment "officiates the council we have now," and added that "it has to 
improve off campus input." 
Supervisor of off campus 
housmg Dan D'Antonio echoed 
Melander's feeling that an ap­
pointed representative-cannot 
be quite as effective as one who 
has been chosen by an elector­
ate, and said that "now off 
campus students have a repre­
sentative who they have elected 
and can go to with their views 
and problems." 
Director of Student Activities 
John Reid pointed out that "it's 
now up to them to form a solid 
Off Campus Council," and 
agreed that the amendment 
does "give them a more fo­
cused, stronger voice." Reid 
feels that the amendment was a 
result of "increased concern 
over the plight of off campus 
students,'' but did say that 
"It's been my opinion that off 
campus students have been 
well represented this year by 
(Andy) McKenna's administra­
tion. I would disagree with the 
people who say they aren't, and 
I think John Fitzpatrick has 
been doing a good Job." 
• 

...boycott \ 
[continued from page 6] 
come. 
'TII be the one to sit down and pick out the Nestle pro­ducts," Robinson said, "but I haven't done that yet. Every­thing's still up in the air." 
Earlier this semester, Van Wolvlear presented the WHC with a list ofconditions that had to be met before the University would accept the boycott. With yesterday's vote, the WHC met all of those conditions. 
The WHC now must make guidelines for the boycott. ''We have to establish some kind of guidelines for renewing 
-the boycott, and continuing it in the future," Dunbar said. He satd some rules for reviewing Nestle's procedures and pro­ducts would pr~bably be est~b­lished to penod1cally determme whe~her the boycott should conunue. Garvey said the WHC would continue its work in other aspects of the boycott. "We have to make Nestle aware of what we are doing," she said. ''At least we know the student body is backing us," she said. 

The Observer 




SMC elections begin Sunday 

by Pam Degnan eleva day lounge, no posters 
will be allowed in Madeleva, 
Campaigns for Saint Mary's Science Building, Moreau and Student Body Presiden( Vice the classrom section of Regina. President of Student Affairs Each ticket or candidate may and Vice President of Academic display one poster in the library Affairs will begin Sunday, at 12 and one in LeMans lobby. midnight and end one week Posters must not exceed 2 by 3 later on Sunday, March 11 at feet. midnight. The following cam­Since platforms will be on dis­paign rules will be strictly play in the dining hall, no enforced and any violations will posters will be allowed on the be dealt with appropriately, stair wells and the upper level according to Student Body pres­of the dining hall. ident, Gail Darragh. Students may not display si~ns 
With the exception of the Mad-or sheets outside any buildmgs (including the dining hall, Mad­.---------------, eleva and the Residence halls). No campaign shirts, hats or 
INTERNATIONAL 

buttons may be worn on elec­tion day. The Student Body
CAREER? 

President has the ultimate word 


concerning violations of cam­paign rules and election pro­cedures. 
Candidates who wish to have an an open forum must contact the election commissioners at least 
fivf' days in advance.
A representative will be on the campus 

Elections will be held on Mon­day, March 12, in LeMans
WEDNESDAY 

lobby from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
MARCH 7, 1979 

and in the dining hall from 5 
to discuss qualifications for 
p.m. to 6 p.m.
advanced study at 

Absentee ballots can be ac­AMERICAN 
quired by contacting election GRADUATE SCHOOL 
commissioners, Noreen Brac­and job opportunitie~ 
ken (5419) or Cari Trousdale in the field of 
(5307). INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT 

Nominations 
Interviews may be scheduled at Placement Office 


due tomorrow 
Main Bldg. 

Nominations for the Educa­tion for Justice committee for the 1979-80 academic year are 
AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOl 

due tomorrow. If interested,
OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT 

contact the Center for Exper­
Thunderbird Cempua 

iential Learning, 1110 Memor­
Glend•le, Arizon• 85306 
ial Library, phone 2788. 

normal conditions and seeks fair price increases, it is op­

ENGINEERS 
posed to the imposition of 
Let's be candid·~ .. This is apitch. , We're looking for talent. 
At Magnavox Government & Industrial Electronics Co., we want to hire the best engineers and computer scientists we can ~!' find. If you qualify, and you're !\ interested in a career with the ~ 


world's leader in communica­tion sytems, Magnavox may be ·,·j / for you. 
That's because, in our business, an -outstanding technical staff is the key to 
] uan Aizpuru, a spokesman for 
success. Magnavox has been remarkably successful because we offer small 
Pemex, the Mexican national 
company atmosphere with large company benefits and challenge! 
oil company. said in Mexico City.
Hence the pitch, and this ad. If you like what you see here, get in touch. Maybe 
Saudi Arabia confirmed
both of us will be glad you did. 

Tuesday it would not increase 
WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS: 
the price ofoil before an April 1 
boost already scheduled by OPEC. The OPEC base price is $13.35 a barrel. 
Tuesday, March 6, 1979 
Please contact your Placement Office or send your resume to: 
But several other members of OPEC have taken steps to raise
PROFESSIONAL PLACEMENT 
prices and take advantage of the supply squeeze caused by 


the cutoff of Iranian supply. 
Magna"o~ 
And Iran, which says it may soon have production back up to 
Advanced Products Division 
3 million barrels a day, about 
(Magn~vox Research Laboratories) 
half the pre-revolution otoal, 
said it would sell the oil to the highest bidder rather than
2829 Maricopa St. Torrance, CA 90503 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 
Wednesday, February 28, 1979-page 8 




Iraq refuses to take advantage of Iranian oil situation 
(AP)-Iraq, the world's no. 2 otner conservation measures. petroleum exporter, and Mexi­But, Carter said, "We don't co joined Saudi Arabia on have any present intention of Tuesday in refusing to increase implementing any of those crude oil prices to take advan­measures.'' tage of the halt in Iran's oil The conservation plans, production. Iran said it will 
which will be sent to Congress resume exports and auction its on Thursday and which could oil to the highest bidder. be used only in an energyIn Washington, President emergency, include calls for Carter said in a broadcast news limiting service-station hours 
conference that "the situation on weekends, restricting tem­
with supply and pricing is peratures in commercial build­serious, but not critical." The ings and cutting unnecessaryCarter administration made advertising lighting. public on Tuesday standby In Baghdad, T ayeh Abdul 
plans o limit gasoline use Karim, the Iraqi oil minister, through possible rationing and said that while his government ''is against freezing oil prices in 
extraordinary rises in extra­ordinary conditions.'' 
Iraq aupplies about 4.9 per­cent of the non-communist world's oil and is second only to Sanidi Arabia as an oil export­er. It is seen as a radical among members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Coun­tries. 
And Mexico, which is not an OPEC member, but is becom­ing a major oil producer, said it would not match the Indepen­dent OPEC increases. 
"We are maintaining our
\/.t
I 

contracts and the prices speci­fied in them and it is well known that Mexico's ·export production for this year and next has already been sold,'' through the consortium of com·­panies that used to buy it. 
Several nations have raised their crude oil prices 5 to 10 percent above that level, how­ever, including Kuwait, Qatar, Venezuela, Libya and the Uni­ted Arab Emirates. 
In addition, the Venezuelans have added n percent to the price of heavy fuel oil exported primarily to the U.S. East Coast. 
Mobil Corp., the nation's sec ond largest oil company, said Tuesday it would limit gasoline sales to dealers in March to the same amounts as last year. Also in short supply is jet fuel with Trans World Airlines and National Airlines canceling dome flights Tuesday. 
Two set flight record 

RICHMOND, British Columbia (AP)-Two businessmen from this Vancouver suburb are each $7,000 poorer, but they now claim the record for flying around the world on commer­cial airlines. 
Orst Perry, 44, and Adolf Schiel, 42, say they flew 23,204 miles around the globe in 36 hours, 50 minutes flying time and 54 hours, 42 minutes overall, going from Vancouver to San Francisco, London, Bah­rain, Singapore, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Sonolulu and back to Vancouver. 
The mark listed in the Guin­ness Book of World Records was established by David Shore and Roger Matheson, two Can­adians who completed the glo­bal trip in 43 hours, 10 minutes of flight time and 63 hours, eight minutes overall. 
The men said the ftrst time they set out on their venture, they had to turn back midway because they couldn't make connections. They said Sunday their ftrst-dass seats had cost about $3,500 apiece for each of. the two trips. 
1........-----------------------~ --~---­


~---~------------~-------~-­
The Observer Wednesday, February 28, 1979-page 9 


Sponsors drop bill to nullify 
amendment ratification 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-Sensing defeat in committee, House sponsors abandoned a Senate resolution yesterday to nullify Indiana's ratification of the E<l.ual Rights Amendment. 
'Why go into something and get your head knocked off?'' asked Rep. Don Nelson, R-In­dianapolis, the chief House sponsor of the proposal. 
In a tandem action, Rep. John Donaldson, chairman of the House ] udiciary Commit­tee, canceled hearing on the resolution, Donaldson said he did so at the request of India­napolis Republican ] oan M. Gubbin,s, who sponsored the resolution in the Senate. 

The issue, Mrs. Gubbins said, is "dead for this session and next, as far as I'm con­cerned.'' 
Indiana ratified the ERA in 1977, Mrs. Gubbins' resolution would have made the approval null and void unless the amend­ment became a part of the U.S. Constitution by March 22-the original deadline for ratifica­tion. Last year, Congress extended that time limit by 39 months. 
"We realized there was no possibility of passing the res­would vote for the resoluuon, seven indicated they would vote against it and one was undeci­ded. A check of the full committee on Tuesday showed the tally would have been 8· 5 against the resolution. 
A co-sponsor of the resolu­tion, Rep. Richard Dellinger, R-Noblesville, said he withdrew to avoid giving ERA supporters a.public forum to present their vtews. 
''The bill was obviously go­oing down the tubes, so why bother?" he asked. 
Mrs. Gubbins said that she thought the resolution would be assigned to the House Rules Committee. 
"We had been working on members of the Rules Commit­tee for some time," she said, "Instead, it went into]udiciary which was a very unfriendly committee." 
She said that about 1, 500 people had planned to come down for the hearing and once she found out that the measure was dead ''I sent a note to Donaldson and asked him not to hold the hearing." 
Mrs. Gubbins said that after she learned of the measure's fate, she asked Speaker Kermit 
0. Burrous, R-Peru, to reassign it to Rules, but he refused. 
U.S. Geological Survey celebrates centennial 
WASHINGTON (AP)-How ship of Powell, who in 1869 much oil is under the Atlantic or completed the dangerous ex­how much silver in Montana? ploration of the canyons of the 
What is the danger of earth­Green and Colorado rivers. quakes in the city where I plan Powell, who had lost his right to move? forearm in the Civil War, 
Will that new industry be opened the last unknown part of able to get enough waters from the continental United States the ground or the rivers? with this trip, an adventure 
Is there any danger from that which historians say brought to long-quiet volcano? a climax the era of western 
These and other challenges expansiOn. face the U.S. Geological Survey The work of Powell and his as it heads into its second mule-riding companions in Col­hundred years on Saturday. orado, like that of Ferdinand 
Today the survey can answer Vandiveer Hayden in Yellow­most of these questions wid;~ stone, helped fill in blank authority. And others too, that spaces on maps, still one of the hadn't even been thought of in survey's primary functions. 1879 when President Ruther­The geological survey is map­ford B. Hayes signed the law maker to the nation, producing creating the agency. topographic maps of the entire 
The survey will celebrate its country. Today it uses aerial centennial Friday and Saturday photography and satellites in with an open house at its this work. headquarters, marking what The millions of maps avail­Director H. William Menard able at the survey's National termed "a time for re-dedica­Cariographic Information Cen­tion and recommitment to the ter show political boundaries, goal of those who preceded define land use, indicate topo­us-the pursuit of earth science graphic features, disclose loca­knowledge in the public inter­tions of minerals and other est.'' natural resources, and even 
Menard is the lOth director of delineate the nation's flood­the geological survey, following prone areas. in a line that included the The techniques may have famous explorer John Wesley improved, but mapmaking re­Powell. mains just as important as it 
In its first century the survey was when the survey was has grown to a staff of 13 ,1)00 created to merge the work of scientists, engineers, techni­the Geological and Geosraphi­cians and others. For fiscal cal Survey of the Ternto1t'es, 1979 its appropriation totals the Geographical and Geologi­$640 million. In 1879 it was cal Survey of the Rocky Moun­$106,000. tain Region, The General Land 
It is headquartered in Res­Office, The Geographical Sur­ton, Va., and operates facilities veys West of the lOOth Meridi­in Denver;Menlo Park, Calif.; an and the Geological Explora­Sioux Falls, S.D.;Flagstaff, tion of the Fortieth Parallel. Ariz. ;Hilo, Hawaii; and Bay St. While it was originally Louis, Miss. char~ed with classifying the 
Much of the survey's growth publtc lands and surveying for 

can be. traced to the director-natural resources, duties of the survey have also grown to include determining the paten­
'en tial for eanh-re_lated disasters. 
/t1 It engages tn volcano and earthquake research, determin­ing hazard areas and trying to

teetures onl..£nt learn how to predict and control 

Fr.]ohn Gal' 
tremors. Fr. John. Gallen, S.J., one of 
The nation's water resourcesAmenca's outstanding litur­are also catalogued by thegists, will present a lecture survey, which keeps track of

entitled ''The Meaning of 
ground water supplies andLent" tomorrow evening at 7:00 monitors the flow in the na­p.m. in Howard Hall. 

tion's rivers and streams.
The lecture, which is being This information is used both sponsored by the Howard Hall in flood-control programs andReligious Commission, is open in aiding agriculture and busi­to the public. 

ness.
Throughout the course of Essentially It IS informationLent a special series of cultural made available to the publicand rdigious events iwll also be that is the business of the

presented each Wednesday 
geological survey.

night in Howard. 
And, as such, the survey'sThis special series will in­work can be a report on rocksclude traditional Lenten devo­brought back from the moon, ations such as a Penance Service report on the availability ofand Stations of the Cross as ground water on Long Island, awell as a forum on economic survey of the mineral wealthjustice and a presentation of the hidden underground in Wyo­film classic, "The Robe." 

ming-or just a map carried bySpecific information regarding hunters and backpackers en­this series will be made public joying their leisure time. 

as Lent progresses. 
olution with that committee," Nelson said. ''It was our strong feeling that to continue further with this owuld not produce a positive result.'' 
nothing

An Associated Press poll of the committee last week showed there were enough to do? votes to defeat the resolution. With 12 of the 13 members questioned, four said they 
Want to work for the 



OBSERVER?
.. . Roche 
starting immediately, openings are 
[continued from page 6] 

"Lots of things need to be available on the advertising sales staff. done and we jsut want to get started on them," Roche de­
the staffis paid on a
clared. When questioned about the stereotype tag accredited to 
commission basis to sell ads .
his ticket, Roche stated that, "We want to start producing results. We are not concerned 
it's good experience
with the image of 'traditional' or 'conventional' --only action.'' Ombudsman election chair­


check it out ! ! 
man Marc Woodward ex­pressed pleasure with the can­didate's campaigns. "Every­
thing went smoothly, we had no call Bob at 7 4 71 to set up an interview problems and all the candidates did an excellent job,'' he sta· ted. 

The Observer Wednesday, February 28, 1979-page 10 

WSU students continue Monopoly marathon 

© 1979 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

Molarity 


Doonesbury 
OKAY, 5PRJN6-rM ff?IJM THE NA­
f/CJJJ, IF YOU 710NAL Rlfl£ A5SO­AREN'T 7Ht CJJfTION, MR. OUI<£! HEAT, WHO AND I t4J4S 601N6 ARC YOU? · 7D MAKE YW AN 
\ 
DAD IJAt.ITED ME TO SEE WHAT LIFE FOR THt PEOPLE 

TH£ N. R..A. ?' vny Yl'OU
NOW, IAJAITA /VI •• M!NI!T£, !ERHAP5 
I tt/A5 8£1N6 A LITTI£ HA5TY.. 

GarryTrudeau saleatACC 
KNoaJ IT?HBJ..,tVt ANDIIJAJ! EMNAS 
UIAT? THE.l3RIJSION OF
51/PPOflJEIJIT RF. fAJ& :n;AK, !£iJ)6UN 
LJ!JtRAL5? fR££1JCM IS NOT
TH£/1?. IlK? A PF£TTYS/6HT,
Y&ARS! TflfSE AR£ {)JNJROL LAWS ARt 
R&PR£55/VC TlM£5, 8£1N6 PREPAR£1) 
YOU'VE 5tiEN MR.. [)(}K&. 5PRN3F/El'Jf £fl LI/BALSAND 
TH£M? \ \ 

7H/3/P.. ILK! 

.. 

was 14 days, but that apparent­ly fell by the way at 12:10 p.m. Monday as the game in the Orton Hall dormitory elevator edged into its third week. 
Players said they intended to continue for at least a few more days. 
The marathon was organized · by Cindee Gapen, president of the co-ed dorm. · She said she wanted to pur Orton Hall on the campus map. 
About 90 students have been involved in the assault on the record, playing in two-and four­hour shifts as the dorm eleVator goes up and down. A witness has been ever-present to make sure the game doesn't stop. 
At the end of the game, a log will be sent to Parker Bros., which manufactures the game. 

Circus tixon 
Ticket" :A performances March 3uth through April 1st of the Festival International du 
c· d M C 1 S
trque e onte ar o pect.ac­ular, presented. under the ~tgh patrona~e of ~~~ Serene High­ness Pnnce Ramter III and pro­duced by Irvin Feld and Kenneth Feld of Rin~ling Bros. and Bar­num & Ba:1ey Circus, went on sale Monday at the Notre Dame 
A.C.C. ticket office, Robertson's, First Bank, St. ] oe Baqk, and Elkhart Truth. 
Group sales information and tickets are available by con­tacting the Notre Dame A.C.C. 
three-pronged Chinese armored and infantry attack in the Cam Duong region, south of the provincial capital of Lao Cai. 
Cam Duong and Lao Cai here reported captured by the Chinese last week, and both are in the Red River Valley. 
rIF Yoll W'AtJTED TO FIND.,!OUT HOW PEOPLE ARE, WHY I \ DON'T YOU 00 SOCIAL \ 
· WORK OR JOIN 1HE PEACE" , coRPS? 
PULLMAN, Wash. (AP):A group of Washington State University students has laid claim to a rather unusual world record -the longest-running Monopoly game on an elevator. 
They say the previous mark 

Michael Molinelli 
JWI OL'BDY, IT IS MY FW-ING 1HAT THE" LESS FbP.TUN/ffE ARE" LESS FoR­1UJATE BECAUSE lliEY 
resERVE To BE LESS FbR­
~E 



e Observer 
... Griffies 
[continued from page 12] I really got interested in it originally. But as an instructor, 
once you know your students are in there to stay, you then have w work on the mental discipline." 
Afld, yes, as much as Griffies is reluctant ro talk about it, he can break bricks, and five or six boards put together, etcetera ... and, year, he could kill a person quite easily if he had to. But that, according to Griffies, is not what karate is all about. 


"Karate should stress both physical and mental develop­ment, and at the same time, it should develop well-rounded people ... it should build confid­in the individual. After , a person shouldn't have fear coming across some­new ... he shouldn't have that he will fail at 
anything.'' 
And Mark Griffies should know. 


APTop20 
The 1 op Twenty teams in The Assodated Press college bas­ketball poll, with first-place votes in parenthese5, season records and total po'ints. Points based on 20-19-18-17-16-15-14· 13-12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-l: 
1. Indiana St. (~ 1) 26-0 1,192 
2. Notre Dame [7] 22-3 1,150 
3. UCLA (2) 21-4 1,060 
4. Michigan St. (1) 20-5 988 
5. Duke 20-6 914 
6. Syracuse 24-2 897 
7. North Carolina ·21-5 
879 8. Louisiana St.· 22-4 851 9. Arkansas 21-4 712 10. Marquette 19-5 521 11. Iowa 19-6 488 12. Temple 22-3 441 13. Louisville 23-6 437 14. Texas 20-6 415 15. DePaul 20-4 394 16. Georgetown 22-4 361 17. Ohio St. 17-8 216 18. Detroit 21-5 186 19. Purdue 21-7 181 
20. San Francisco 21-6 
73 

\iVednesday,February 28, 1979-page 11 
.­
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m .. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday. 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p m All 
cla~silieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail.





Classifieds 
Mark Spitz Coming Friday-Fritz Von Werbel's Block·Found: One cream colored knit hat WANTED: Need ride to Hartford, Ct. 
Good luck In your meet-will mis you buster best seller-Gadfly: Black Sacrltlloutside of Lyons. Call 7962 to claim. area for Spring break. Want to leave 
March 2. Don't miss lt.
Wed afternoon, but will accept most anything. Please call Marybeth. 
Virginia
Contact Lens Wearers. Save on brand 
Gadfly: BliCk Sacntta· "Bad conceptual name hard or soft lens supplies. Send for For Rent Joe, modern philosophy. Yet Intriguing. Also free Illustrated catalog. Contact Lens You're 'Michigan's' greatest ttmpor11ry charming. Reminds me of Splnoza. 
288-9049. 
Wanted: Ride to Chicago this weekend.
Supplles, Box 7453, Phoenix, Arizona Will share expenses. Call Adrienne asset. Doo's, Chicago, Captain A's, and Makef no sense whatsoever. Valid, but 
85011. Need really lllg sound klr your next 
you. I'll be back. G.S.! not sound. But to me, nothing Is sound."
289-1572.
party? Two Peavey loudspeakers with Beethoven
Save your Saturday afternoon for the 300w mixer/amp. Adapts to any system Kid
Need ride to Long lslarld for spring break.
Alumnae Seminar, March 31·3 pm In the ~~eat sound magnification. Call Bob Time sure does fly when you're having Brian Sullivan-
Will share In expenses. Call John at
Library Auditorium. Stimulating discus· fun. But I must say your Ice cream and Are you really shy? (I think not) I'll be
3507.
slon about life after Notre Dame with cookies stop was perfect. Love you. Bean over bright &Early Saturday morning!
Women who've experienced II. Furnished four bedroom hOuse for rent · Get ready!!
Need ride to Dallas for spring break. Call
lor next school year, couple blocks from 
Foxy Roxy is finally 21. Happy Hunting P.S. Make sure the shower Is hotlMary Meg at 8037.
ATTENTION SENIORS: campus 2n-3604. and Happy Birthday. Diane & Kelly ·You can Guess Who
The Senior Arts Festival Is looking for (She'll collect kisses at Senior Bar
Need ride to Buffalo or Niagara Falls for
aspiring photographers who wish to Walk to campus. &bedroom house for tonight.) Donna Sunda,
spring break. Will share In all expenses.
exhibit their work during festival week. rent this fall. Furnished. Nice call Besos Y Flores! Feliz Cumpeanos!
9all Jean at 8037.
Submit photographs to Bernadette Young 272-1729 after 7:00. For a rare lesson on Incredible guitar Tom317 Badin or Kevin Pritchett 124 Keenan. 
playing: Jerry Garcia and Bob Weir·
House for Rent, 3 blocks golf course $75 Need history of us Foreign Policy Bruce Flowers-! liked your style at the
Friday at Senior Bar. 
ATTENTION ALL LOGAN mo., fireplace available Sept. 233-1329. Textbook. Call Tim, 1003. LaSalle game. I've always liked lt. An 
admirer from Purdue.
VOLUNTEERS AND INTERESTED 
St. Sue STUDENTS!! Happy Anniversary! Let's hope1the next
Desparately need ride to Florida for one 
or two. Call41·5121. Dan Meuleman on Von Werbel's Gacffty:
This Friday Night, March 2nd from six months are as good as the first.
Wanted 
'·........~---,--------Black Sacl'ltla· "Positively Baroque.
7:30-10:00 p.m., Is the very first star wars 
Need ride to Chicago March 2nd will Love, the Night Clerk Really Roccoco."
dance at Logan Canter! The dance Is held 
share expenses Call SMC ~9 or 5132.
In the cafeteria, with a great live band, 
I'm looking for someone to play folk Do you know someone who's face has 
Miss Surreptitious,fantastic munchies, and a good time for 
guitar with me sometime. Call Patty gotten In the way of... 
My Dad's told me about older women,all. So come Friday night and help the 
4·5208. . a( aflying puck? 
bull like to learn things for myself.
mentally handicapped enjoy the dance, 

For Sale 
b( aline drive? 
Anxiously Awaiting
and boogie down. Need ride close to Bronx and back for c( an Orlando Stuff?
Volunteers needed at 11:45 a.m. Satur· 
Break. Call lrene:6733. If so, they're U M OC material.
For Sale: Gas stove $25. 289-1820. Marybeth and Jean· time at the Indiana State Special Olympic Help! Need ride to Lawrence, Mass. for Functional. Kel, Thank You! Nobody has ever done thatday, March 3rd, to help keep score and for me before. I owe you both one.
Basketball Tournament to be held at the The days slip by. As the seasons do but
break can leave Wed. Mar. 14. will share 
ACC. Help the kids In the basketball expenses. Tony 1423. For Sale: Canon at-1, with 1.8, excellent after three years my love's growing Love, Mark condition, warantee. Call John, 8534. P.S. Can we do It again next year?
tournament have good and fun games! strong for you. Saturday rec Saturday 9:D0-11:30 a.m. Need ride to Chicago this Friday Call Always,JJK
1978 Ford Supervan. Regular gas. Radical,Logan Center. Bowling Friday afternoon· Mark 1863. 
Captains chairs, western mirrors, rear & Sanfratellos doesn't conform to my
3:20p.m. NO Library Circle. Questions 5ally and Sheila, call Mike 1371 or Sue 41-4832. Good lucl< to you both! Between Augusta
side door glass. Ready for conversion. rigorous training schedule, but skiing
Need ride to/from east coast Fla.-Vera 
$6500 or best offer. Chris, m-4292 or and senior bar I'll be out avery Thur. does-how about It?
Beach area or more south. Can leave 
287-7272. ABA-JIT
night. Love, Carl. driving expenses. Maryann. 6859. 
3/16, return 3/24, 25, 26. Will share 
Notre Dame at Michigan basketball Donna Sebastian-Happy 22ndl Have a
Adolf 0ortt man on Von Wertlef's Gldfly:

st&Found 
tiCkets for sale, Sunday Mar.ch 4, $2., BliCk Sacrata: "Sehr Gut. Am Bestan." · great day. MW
I MISS MINNESOTA and I won't see St.
Lost: at Geseple's, Sat. night· Mike, (313) 663·3011.
Paul again unless some kind soul gives
1. an open, tie at neck, off-white sweater Celebrate the first Sunday of Lent at Hey! I'm writing lllY~ff a personal.
me a ride for Spring Break. Will share 
Used Book Shop. Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7 What should I say? (Why don't you ask
& off white pair of mittens. Regina Chapel3/3 7:00p.m. In a mass to
driving expenses-Aileen, 3749. 
Ralph Casperson. 1303 Buchanan Road who the Freshman Copy Reader Is on keys on it. Niles. 683·2888. Monday Nights?) Hey, good ldeaH think 
2. a SMC key chain with aSMC 10 and 2 be given In French EVeryone welcome. 
Need a ride to the west coast of Florida
If found, please call Cathy Perreault at Pat and Ollie, his name Is Rahjl or something. All I
for Spring Break. I want to go home! 
know Is that he's foreign. (Foreign with
(219)284·5168 (LeMans) $5 reward! Happy Birthday! I hope you stay standing
Call 7962 or 4603 Please! 
red hair?) Yeh., That's what he told me Lost: My green rugby jacket at Tickets Love, Teresita anyway. (Don't believe him.) Yeh, that's
until midnight... 
Need ride to Fort lauderdale over break. 
Giuseppe's last saturday. Please If you've Will share driving and expenses. Call Desperately need DePaul Tlx Call Mark right, he's the same one that sole. me found It return II. I need It for the Ireland Perry 1409. · 1863. Michael, Thanks for your attentive ear, 
tickets to the JIM HENDRIX concert next trip. Tim 1445-Reward understanding and Cutty sark. An week. (C'mon, you're not that dumb'$) No, .Its' gonna be a great concert huh?
CINCINNATl If you're going In that Irresponsible Reporter I'm really lookIn forward to It!
Lost: one crutch outside of the Library P.S. You make Mondays liveable!
direction March 2 and coming back (Another victim !II)
about a week and a half ago. If you've 

Personals
March4, We'd like to go with you. We'll 
seen this crutch alive, call Mike at 1678. Bear,
share driving expenses and provide witty 
Attention Iran and Vietnam Exchange
conversation. Call Mo. 6369, or Jean Need ride to Florida? Bus leaving friday Thanks muchly for the use of your car 
Students: Don't let the current tribula­
Found: Gold high-school class ring­8148, so we can be there for our friends of break for Fort Lauderdale. $75 Call Sunday night. It was appreciated. 
outside rock. Says Blue Ash on II. Call wedding. Harry 8922. Sleeping Beauty tions In these beautiful countries deter 7883 to Identify. P.S. Your parents are wonderful! 
. you from enrolling In ar prooram! So what If you get blown away? Lots ofOVERSEAS JOBS Summer/year round. HAPPY BlfiTHDAY SHEILA DINER! 
people get blown away here on weekends
Found: a calculator, between Flanner Nick Scheeman,
Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc.
and Grace call1641 to Identify. Renew, Inc. needs volunteers for Just a Just as I promised, you're very own ·but they don't have tltat foreign ex­
All fields, $500·$1 ,200 monthly. 
few hours for the next few weekends personal. Lots of luck with your perience. So get cracking-call PanamaExpenses paid. Sightseeing. Free lnfo.­
Red, director of Foreign Suicide
Lost: Brother lost gold Michigan State (painting and minor repairs on homes In campaign.
Wrlte: IJC Box 4490-14, Berkeley, CA
class Ring last saturday night at hockey the NO neighborhood). Take an active A strong surporter Exchange Program, and find out aoo ·· 
94704. 
the pre-departure weapons tralnln\ green stone. It has sentimental value. Need ride to U. of Michigan on March 2 teer Services, 7308. course that Is being offered. Get fired u~ In preparation· for el<otlc Hanoi and 
game at ACC Ring was for class '76 with Interest In your neighbors. Call Volun· P.S. Wish could vote! 
Call 8410. and ride back after the game of the 4th. If Colleen, 
you can help call Mike 3889. Hey Tall Cutey: From one shy person to Happy Birthday! (Kinky or What?!) Just Haiphong. as well as historic Teheran! Lost: Would the person who picked up another-HI! the new madhatter because you're 19, don't thlnk you can go my Lido ski sweater In the library for me, Jeannine and Kathy
Need ride for 2to Ft. In Tars Florida over out and break your ! 
but doesn't know who I am, please call AI, Thanks so much for helping me out this
break. Can leave Wed. Call Brian 1423. Love. Bonnie. Marvannand M.B. (~
1219. Reward-no questions asked. War Is hell. For your sake leave Sandy weekend. Really sorry about the late J and the Nile Queen out of lt. Trlsh 
S. ~light! Thanks again. You gals are 
de tol. 

Wednesday, February 28, 1979-page 12


SRorts 

DominicJ. Napolitano: trouble is, they don't ntake enough of 'em 
By LeoLatz Napolitano. 'I'm going to be world to come as honorary Sports Writer around Notre Dame for another referees. Next to one of the year anyway as a consultant. heavy punching bags in the
''The strong fight so that the This will enable me to handle boxing room is an autographedweak may be nourished," says the boxing for another year." photo of the famous Dempsey­Dominic J. ''Na.Ppy'' 

"Nappy'' is the Bengals and Willard fight that reads, "ToNapolitano as he stands m the without him they just wouldn't Nappy ... Lots of Luck, your Palcenter of the boxing room be the same. The boxing Jack Dempsey." Other out­eyeing the eighty aspiring instructor has been with the standing champions who cameboxers who are religtously Bengals program since its to the Bouts as referees weretraining for the upcoming humble beginning as a smoker Carmen Basile, Kid Gavilan,Bengal Bouts (Sunday, March 
in 1931. "Nappy'' came to Rocky Marciano and Tony Zale. 
4, 2:00 p.m. at the ACC). "I Notre Dame as a student in

think that statement telfs the ''Nappy'' opens his file
1928 and within two years he

true meaning a.bout the Bengal cabinet and pulls out stacks of 
was a physical education

Bouts, for last year we gave letters from his appreciative
instructor as an undergraduate.

$20,000 to the missions in students of the past. Letters
"I couldn't afford to attend

Bangladesh and over $300,000 dated from 1943 to the present since the fights began.'' The school here so a priest, Fr. attest to the fact that ''Nappy is 
Mooney, offered me a job in the 

small, white-haired man seems more than a coach. He Joints
athletic department because of

to tit in perfectly against the out that he never ha any
my background in boxing,''

walls which displayed hundreds children of his own, so he took
explains Napolitano. "I've

of past Bengal photographs B:S more than just a .coaching
never thought of leaving either. 

he tell of the Bouts and thetr interest in the boxers.
As everyone who works here

boxers. ''The most rewarding thing
has had offers to go elsewhere,

This is a special year for both for me in the 49 years that I
so have I. But I want to spend
Nappy and the Bengal Bouts. It 
have been here is the young
my whole life at Notre Dame.''

is special for "Nappy" because men that I have taught and
''I used to train all the Dominic]. Napolitano and "friend," Rocky Marciano.
last week he retired 
coached," smiles Nappy.

football players for nearly 45 courtesy ofNotre Dame Sports Information). 
from his position as the univei­
''Most of them are very succes­
years," reminisces Napolitano.
sity's director of non-varsity 
sful...doctors, lawyers, priests
''We used to have some greatsports • _ It is special 
and engineers ... and they are 

Leading scorer Larry Bird

ones too, expecially during the • for Nappy's Bouts because 
among the best in their res­
years when Frank Leahy wasNBC-TV plans to televise the pective fields.'' 
the coach. He was a big fan of

49th edition of this boxing the Bengals. We had such Chicago Sun-Times sports­had to be told to shoot more 
extravaganza on its Sponsworld 

players as Gus Cifelli, writer Jack Griffin said it best FRENCH LICK, Ind. (AP) -so well, he -scored a lot 
pro~ram. 

"Jungle " Jim Martin, Terry in 1968, ''Nappy has touched Imagine anyone having to tell points. He should have''I m retirin~ from my position Brennan and Red Mack.'' more than 10,000 boys in the
in the athleuc department but Larry Bird to shoot the ball? shooting more instead of 
The Bengals also have !ast 37 yea~s. Trouble is, they But that's just what Gary ing off.'' 
I'll certainly be around for the 

50th anniversary of the Bengal attracted many famous names JUSt don t make enough Holland, his coach at Spri ngs Bird, whose Sycamores 
Bouts next year,'' emphasizes from the professional boxing Nappy's." Valley-High School, had to do. paired againstWest Texas "He definitely was the best 10 the first round of the player I ever coached,'' Holland souri VAlley Conference said of the 6-foot-9 All-Amer­ament Tuesday night, 
Dillon, Lyons take IHswimmingmeet­
ican, now a senior at Indiana among the nation's by Mike Ortman In the women's meet, Lyons men, four women). State with a three-year college scorers each of his three Sports Writer clobbered Walsh, Lewis and For both Lyons and Dillon scoring average of better than at Indiana State. He was 
on the first round theBreen·-Phi!lips. in winning six of Halls, this years victories rep­30 points a game. 

resented their second consecu­National Basketball Association 

The "Big Red" men from the ten events, including the ''He was very confident in high 
won interhall draft by the Boston Celtics last
Dillon Hall the top five spots in the fifty yard tive swimming titles. school and sonscious of his swim meet last night, defeating freestyle. Lyons tallied 63 Meet coordmator and varsity teammates. You can see that year but elected to stay in second place Zahm by just five points, outscoring second place swimming coach Dennis Stark now with his unselfish play and school for his final year of 
points. Dillon won only one Walsh by 32. said, ''This is the best turnout passing,' Holland said. eligibility. 
in a number of years. We've His career-high 49 points on event en route to victory, but An estimated 75 swimmers 

took six second places along the took part in the meet, repre­had meets like this before but it "We had trouble getting him Sunday boosted his season 
way. senting twelve dorms (etght was a long time ago." to shoot enough. St_dl, he shot average to 29.3. 
Mark Griffies .·anal!-American guy in an ancient orientalsport -karate 
by Gregory Solman still sees karate as some form of tournaments in Washingtonand 
Assistant Sports Editor esoteric magic, where a man Oregon, for his forms--a series skilled in karate can. defend of prearranged moves, similar himself against lions and to shadow boxing against a 
Mark Griffies presides over tigers,,.'' theoretical attack. Most his karate club like a drill ... And bears, perhaps? Oh, recently, he captured second sergeant over his troops ... with my! place in a tournament at Penn. minor variations, of course. ''After a year of karate State. 
The commands are in training,'' Griffies asserts the Korean; the exercises demand real reason, "a person should At 5'8" and a r.ock-hard 155 work from muscle groups many ideally have enough confidence· pounds, the blond haired,· blue people have yet to discover; and in himself to be able to use his eyed Griffies is an all-American the intent is to imbue students technique should he need it in looking guy at one of the most 
with the mental discipline and the street.'' ancient and foreign arts in the physical ability to defend them­And, evidently, students are world: Tae Kwon Do. And selves where the biggest war in finding Griffies' philosophy a Griffies plans to continue to the world is currently being appealing. Three years ago, improve at his sport, even after fought: in the street. when the senior fromTacoma, he enters dental school this fall ''In the past few years, there Washington took over the club, at the University of have been students assaulted, there were only twenty five Washington. Evidently, 
injured, and raped,'' Griffies members, and virtually no Griffies has opted to ftx teeth remarks. "And people are hi~her belts. Now, the club is rather than kick them out. coming to find answers." alive and flourishing, and look­
"Many institutions stress the
ing forward to holding their
And Griffies is quick to point fantastics of karate: 'Hey, look
own tournament here in April. 
out, the answers are not found what you can do in just one in "three week crash courses." For Griffies, the tournament month!" warns Griffies. "TheyNeither does Griffies. play the could mean yet another victory try to draw people in byrole of the inscrutable fu­for seventh year student of the showing a karate expert whit manchued master, expecting sport who has a string of them 
ding down a thousand pound
the more then sixty students in under his black belt. While a · block of ice, and that kind of his club to be "little grass­brown belt (he earned his black 
stuff. To be honest, that's how
hoppers." belt over three and a half years ''I think the average American ago) he won more than a few [continued on page 11} 






