
.... ··\:... 
·r . ~ ­
• • . Iri~h Extra, pages 11-14 
--------------------·-· --------------------------------~---~------------------------------------­



Vance briefs Carter on Cuban situation 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Secretary of Stat_e Cyrus V~nce briefed President Carter and members of the Nauonal Secunt)Counctl at a ' hastily scheduled meeting last ~ight on the status of U.S.-Sov_iet negotiations on Russian troops 1!1 Cuba. Van~e met alone wtth Carter for 30 minutes and then bnefed the president andotherNSC members for an hour on his talks with Soviet Foreign Minister 
Andrei A. Gromyko. -. . . 
The group adjourned to meet agam thls mormng at 7 a.m. 
''We would not characterize this as a crisis. It was a discussion, 
press secretary J ody Powell told reporters after the meeting had broken up.
He refused to disclose any SJ?ecifics of what Yance told the N~C about his meeting this week 10 New York w1th Gromyko, wh1ch concluded yesterday with a three-hou~ discussion that apparently brought no resolution to the dtspute. 
''There is not a crisis atmosphere but there is a problem,'' an administration source said in explaining why Carter convened the NSC. ''Vance held a long meeting today with Gromyko and now we want to see what the Russians said.'' 
Besides the president and Vice President Walter Mondale, those summoned to the White House briefing included Defense Secretary Harold Brown, CI_A Dire~tor St~sf!-eld Turne~ an~ preseidential National Secunty Advtser Zbtgmew Brzenz10sk1. The mood seemed gloomy on both sides as Vance and Gromyko ended their latest session. No further talks were planned. 
An administration source indicated, however, Vance might meet ~gain with Soviet Ambassador Anatoly Dobrynin on the troops iSSUe. 
State Department spokesman Hodding Carte~ w~uld no_t rul~. ~ut some unspecified U.S. effort to keep the negouattons got?-~-. I~ really trying not to rule out_ any posst~thty. 
U.S. sources said prior to the last Vance-Gromyko meet10g that its outcome would weigh heavily on whether Carter personally enters the negotiations. Those officials had said _a w~ekend 
meeting between Gromyko and Carter was poss1ble tf the stalemate eased. 
But Gromyko said he planned to return to Moscow today, apparently precluding a meeting with Ca~ter. 
The talks with Gromyki, held in Vance's 37th floor hotel smte overlooking the United Nations, were the first that went bey~nd the troop dispute, spokesman Carter . sa1d. For part of the discussion_ they were joined by top advts~rs .. 
Vance has met on six occas10ns over the last three week with eith­
er Gromyko or Dobrynin.
In the talks, Vam e tried w impress on the Soviets the Carter administration'~ judgment that without a prompt s~tdem_ent of the troopsdispute,there is little prospect the Senate wdl ratify the new strategic arms limitation treaty by the end of the year. 
Concessions, etc. get read_y 
Stadium prepares .for .first home game 
by Daniel Letcher Senior StaffReporter 
For the 26th year, Ardell 
Madlen strives to make that 
little extra money as a conces­
sion stand operator. 
For his 14th year, 
Valdiserri, Notre Dame Sports 
Information Director, readies 
the pres~ box for opening day 
ceremontes. 
These two men are examples 
of the behind-the-scenes work­
force with prepares the stadium 
for its 50th football season.The 
stadium was dedicated on Oct. 
11th, 1930 although the Irish 
defeated Southern Methodist a 
week earlier. 
In its first year, Rockne's 
dream stadium housed an un­
defyued national championship 
team. Since then, there have 
been seven championship 
teams. The stadium originally 
seated 54,400, but was later 
expanded to seat the present 
59,075. 
Dean Winter; head of the 
vending services for Notre 
Dame Food Services, 
[continued on page 18] Stadium will be ready for 56,000 fans. [photo by Ernie 
-B.PTTQr.] __ _ _____ ..--_________ . • _ ___ . ___
-... -.. ... ­
~ ~ 
...;.-,.·J;;"'4: ·....~ ... ;-~ _... 't' ·-..... · ·: ::-·= -'-:. -.:-·r.~·--.~. !~'i-·""'" __ -;.: ~...... --_ ·-:-:-?""'~""t\.....~-.-: 

VATICAN CITY (AP)-Pope -·between Argentina and Chile. John Paul II said yesterday The 59-year-old pope, who "permanent and effective' peace leaves on his third international 
will be a theme of his voyage of his pontificate, has upcoming Irish-U.S. tour. He characterized the Irish leg ofhis also issued guidelines aimed at trip as a ''pilgrimage of peace solving a boundary dispute and reconcdiation.'' 
by Pam Degnan Senior StaffReporter 
Tail~aters, pep rallies, 59,000 cheenng fans. Football seasons pass by; fans come and go. 
Bur·  the stadium manages  to  
stay firmly rooted to ground.  the  
So  what  does  it  take  to  

''fortify'' the stadium to meet the onslaught of another foot­ball season? 
The field is lined and marked, in a two to three day process, according to Harold]. Benning­hoff, superintendent of the stadium. "We also fertilize it every four weeks --it's like a giant baby. We cater to its every need,'' Benninghoff said. 
The next step in the"dressing" process is --the cleaning of the seats and rooms within the stadium. 
"For example," said Benn­inghoff, "both locker rooms, the restrooms and the press box 
0 
must be thoroughly cleaned and made serviceable for each garne." 
[continued on page 3 ] 
_ _.-·-~--·--·~". _. _ 
"'lil~~-~..... w:~~-r!!J::rf""'t.~~.C';~·r.~~~-~~~... ·"Jti:• ....~~.;·--... · ·-~=-~-----~·· "'"~. ·-:-· ""\"::--· 1~• 
\ 
0 He was referring to fighting in Northern Ireland, where the Irish Republican Army has been wagmg 10 years of bloody guerilla war to end British rule and unite the province with the Irish Republic. The pope will­visit the Republic but not Northern Irela.nd. John Paul, working as a mediator between the predomi­nantly Roman Catholic nations of Argentina and Chile, sum­moned delegates from those two countries and told them he was "on the eve of starting a trip in which there will be no lack of chances to proclaim the interest of the Holy See for peace and its ftrm will of contri­buting to its effective and permanent consolidation.'' By the meeting, he issued a three-point guideline for the peaceful settlement of the dis­pute in what Vat!can qbservers said could be a papal blueprint usefUl for attempts in solving other in_rernational problems. The Pope said the two nations should ftrst look for points of convergence, and begin colla­boration in other fields and 
0
finally build a climate of confidence. Argentina and Chile have at times been on the verge of war over claim to a small grou_p of islands, and undersea nghts, at the tip of South Amenca. 
InJanuary, the Vatican agreed 
:o mediate the dispute and the pope assigned Italian Cardinal Antonio Samore as his _personal mediator. If the • mediation is successful, Vatican observers feel, the pontiff may move to try ~d help _settling ~thers. includ­10g that 10 the Middle East.\ 
~-~-­
___ . =--• '1 
-----------------------~--------­
News in brief 
Friday, September 28, 1979 -page 2 
Women
Carter sif{ns Panama Trea~y 
rowers 
W ASHlNGTON (AP) --president Carter signed into law legislarion roimplement rhe Panama Canal Trearies yesrer­day, only one day afrer rhe House reversed an earlier · to meet rejection and approved the legislation. 
All :women wh~ ~i~ned up for 
r 
Weather Partly cloudy with a 20 percent chance for showers today. Partly cloudy Friday night and Saturday with a slight chance for showers Saturday. Lows in the mid to upper 50s and highs in the mid to upper 70s.  
CamP-_u_s__  
Frida_v, September 28, 1979  
11 :45-1 pm LUNCHTIME CONCERT, gene barbanera, spon: the nd student union LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER, admission free. 12:10 pm DISCUSSION, "mennonite ethnic family patterns," prof. h. kauffman, goshen college 110 O'SHAG spons: sociology club. ' ' 3 pm TENNIS, smc vs. u. of illinois, ANGELA COURTS. 3pm BASEBALL • nd vs. valparaiso. 3:30pm TENNIS, nd vs. central michigan u. 4 pm SEMINAR, "reaction catalysis in aprotic solvents," 4pm SOCCER, nd vs. ind. u. CARTIER FIELD 5:15pm MASS & SUPPER, BULLA SHED. 5:30pm FIELD HOCKEY, nd vs. marion college 8 pm FIELD HOCKEY, nd vs. depauw u. 9 pm PERFORMANCE, chris morgan, jeannie ritter, & dan keusal, NAZZ, free .  
Saturda_v, September 29, 1979  
9am TENNIS, smc vs. central michigan u ANGELA COURTS . 1:30pm FOOTBALL, nd vs. michigan st. HOME. 7&9pm FILM, macchiavelli's "mandrafola" LIBRARY AUD. spons: dept. of modern languages. 1. _7:30pm LECTURE, "the inklings (c.s. lewis, j.r.r.tolkien, charles silliams & their friends): their ideas & interests," humphrey carpenter, oxford, england. HAYES HEALY AUD. spons: english dept. 9:30pm ENTERTAINMENT, rich prezioso, gene barbanera and guests, THE NAZZ, free.  
Sunda_v, September 30, 1979  
llam CANOE ffiiP, saint joe river, spons big brothers/sisters. MEET AT THE CIRCLE. noon MEETING, student committee meeting, spons: student committee on tenure, all interested students, faculty invited, SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE BAllROOM. ' 1pm MEETING, ham radio club, new members welcome, LAFORTUNE BAllROOM. 1pm MEETING, nd chess club, LAFORTUNE RATHSKEL LAR. 1pm BICYCLE RIDE, spons: nd bicycle touring club 10-15 miles, new members welcome, MEET AT LIBRARY CIRCLE. 2pm ADMISSION DEGREE, knights of columbus, K OF C HALL, jacket and tie requested. 2:30pm AUDUBON WILD LIFE FILM, "capetown to the kalahari,'' karl maslowski. CARROLL HALL SMC. $2. 3pm INDUCTION, ladies of colum;,us, K OF C HALL. ,6pm DISCUSSION, ''inquiry into catholic l:ieliefs,'' REGINA NORTH LOUNGE. 7pm FILM, "strive", spons: chinese student association,LIBRARY AUD. 7, 9, 11pm FILM, "summer of '42" K OF C HALL, $1 (members free). 7, 9:30pm FILM, "oedipus rex" CARROLL HALL SMC,spQI1s: english dept. ~..,..,....IIMi',,........iii''illlllllllilliMi..,._illillll,.._.,...,.....,;,·....······iii··;;,;·-.;·•:..;·,;;,··.-·~.;.;··,;.;;···:.;·.-·oliJ'  

rowmg OI?-act1vtttes ni~ht or who are tnterested in Joining crew are invited to attend an introductory row on Sunday, Sept. 30, at 1 p.m. Met at Stepan Center parking lot. For further information, contact Teru Hinz, 4-1-4968. 
·... Pope 
[continued from page 3 ] 
visitor:; reach Grant Park in time for the 3 p.m. mass. 
A spokesman for the Chicago Convention and Tourism Bur­eau reports that there are still numerous vacancies in dry hotels for the duration of the Pope's stay. For the night before the ·eapal mass, 2, 788 beds are sttll reported to be open. 
Illinois Bell and the Archdiocese of Chica~o have opened a "papal hotltne" for information on the Pope's visit. The number is (312) 936-9600. 
Correction 
The Notre Dame Skydiving Club, pictured on the front page of yesterday's Observer, is not a recognized student activity of Notre Dame. Its only connec­tion with the University is the membership of students in the club. 
f-The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Tim ''Scoop'' Sullivan Asst, Night Editor: jim Rudd Copy Editor:Bnan Oakely and Kathryn Casey Layout Staff: Ann Monaghan and Bill Keenan News Editor: Mike Lewis Editorial Layotu: Ellen Gor­man, Greg Hedges Features Layout:Sal Granata and Rod Beard Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists:Tina Perlack, Carol Cornwall, Laura Vasquez, Kate Huffman, Varol Shu­back EMT's:Mich Santella, Cam·e Britt Proofreader:Dodee Carney ND Day Editor:Particza Campbell • SMC Day Editor: Kathy Do­
manico 
I
Ad Design:Barb Pratt, Chns Slatt Supplement Layout:Paul Barry Mullaney . ~hotographer:Rick Dohn"ng 
The Observer [USPS 598 920] Is published Monday through Friday ex-capt during exam and vacation periods. 
The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purch1sed lor $20 per year [$10 persemesterblrom The Observer, P. 0. box 
a. Notre ame,lndlana 46556. Second class p~e paid, Notre Dame, In­
diana . The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction _,_ 
ri~ht~~re _reserved. 
·_The Observer_ 
needs Oassified typists from 2 pm. to 5 p.m. 
\ 
on Sundays, Mondays, and/or Wednesdays. 
Must type well to qualify. This job pays $2.50/hour. Call Kim 8122 
an 
Sunday Masses 
at 
call)p_US 
Sacred Heart Church 
miniStry 
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:15a.m. Sunday Rev. John Fitzgerald, C.S.C. 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. EdvM-<i Mal.loy,.C:S:C. 12:1)--p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
' 
]:15 p.m. Vespers Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S..C, 
~----~--~----------------~-------J 

Speaking of Sports FREE PIZZA 
rPi;~-;;;;;-:;-;;;z";-,;;;;~;-1 
1 Georgetown Shopping Center 1 1 1
I (near Cira's) I 
1 After the ~ame.... I 
I I
I 
I $2.00 OFF ND~ I
I any large pizza . ·f I I (Not valid for deliveries)" c~vefind Rd . ..., 1 
-o·
I ~-':~ I 
1 $1.00 OFF ~-~ I 
e~ 
I
I any small pizza 
tlJ • 
lwide Screen TV-Luncheon Specials Dailvl ·--..coupon Expires 9/30/79J____ 
The Observer 
Friday,-September 28, 1919-p~'3 


Officials···sa_y·"' 
hotel rooms available for visit 
CHIAGO (AP) -There still are plenty of hotel rooms and other accommodations available, tourism officials say, for the Chicago visit of Pope John Paul II next week. Wayne Dunham of the Chicago Tourism Bureau said W ednes­day a survey by his staff shows 2,788 hotel and motel rooms still open for Oct. 4 and 3,567 rooms unreserved for Oct. 5. 
Dunham said out-of-town visitors who decide at the last minute to attend an outdoor Mass Oct. 5 should have no difficulty finding accommoda­tions. However, some of the available rooms are in suburban hotels, he added. 
Officials of the Chicago Roman Catholic Archdiocese said ac­comglOdations also would be available in private homes, rectories and convents. 
Because of the number of rooms still available, archdio­cese officials scaled down earli­er estimates that one million or more people would attend the outdoor Mass in Grant Park. No official crowd estimate, howev­er, has been given. 
' Stadium FOX'S
' ' 
[continued from page I 1 
Benninghoff and his 18-man crew must also repaint the row and section numbers that are illegible. "This is done for the fans' benefit," explained Benn­inghoff. 
The scoreboards must also be checked and serviced. This is done by an outside firm, and a service man is always available during the game in case of a scoreboard malfunction. 
Benninghoff, however, cited the most demanding task as the 
"Operation Clean-up." 
"There are about 30 of us, which includes people hired temporarily from South Bend, 
who start from the top to 
bottom picking up the garbage in the stands. This is usually a three hour Sunday morrung ~ project. By the end of the day we are totally exhausted," add­
ed Benninghoff. 
Superintendent of the stadium since 1964, Benninghoff has watched the stadium weather many "storms". Of course each year there are the usual broken seats and smashed bot­des on the infield. But that's typical of any football game," commented Benninghoff. 
Notre Dame's Security task force is the "glue" that seems to hold together a football weekend. 
Comprised of 50 officers, six of whom are N.D. security guards, 
To arrive in Olicago Saturday 
Pope to _visit Atnerica 
by john MCGrath will also attend a symposium at city's T>olish ·population, the 
Senior StaffReporter Catholic University the next largest anywhere outside Po­
day. At that meeting, the Pope land, at Five Holy Martyrs 
Campus religious and lay will address Catholic educators Church on the city's southwest figures ueamong the millions of from throughout the nation. side. He will then attend a Americans preparing for Pope Hesburgh was at the White special s~ssion of the U.S. John Paul ll's upcoming U.S. House yesterday reporting for Conference of Bishops. visit. The visit will begin Mon­the President's Commission on In the afternoon, the Pope will day morning when the papal the Holocaust, and was unavail­offer a mass in Chicago's Grant delegation arrives in Boston. able for comment. Other Park before a crowd that esti-· Other citites on the agenda campus leaders expressed hope mates now place at over one include New York, Washington, that the Pope's visit would million people. Workmen were Philadelphia, Des Moines, and give new vigor to the Roman busy this week constructing the Chicago. Catholic Church in America. huge papal altar and testing the 
University President "One of the Pope's main roof strength of which seper­Theordore Hesburgh and Msgr. purposes in coming is to en­ates the city's central business John Egan, director of Pastoral hance his understanding of the district from the Lake Michigan and Social Ministry, are among American people," said Fr. waterfornt. several religious leaders from David Burrel, chairman of The City of Chicago has Notre Dame who have been Notre Dame's theology banned traffic in the -:lowntown · invited to a reception for the department. area beginning at 10 a.m. next Pope to be held on the White Pope John Paul will visit Saturday, but the Chicago Rap­House lawn Oct. 6. Hesburgh Chicago next Friday, and many id Transit Authority has 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary' a announced that an increased 
students are making plans to number of trains and buses will
-
travel .to cl.le Windy City to see be placed in service to help 
him. In the morning the Pope 
wiJ) celebrate a mass for the [continued on page 2 1
SU sponsors 
Stepan Stomp 
The NAZZ 
Fri. September 28
~errally 
Lunchtime Concert (11 :45-1 pm)
Student Union Social Commission, in conjunction 
GENE BARBANERA 
with Redneck Mother Music, will host ''Stepan Stomp.'~ Live 
Chris Morgan
entertainment will be provided at Stepan Center by ''Bob Berk 
Jeannie Ritter (9-?) 
and San Antonio Express" -a 
Dan Keusal
country rock band featuring banjo, harmonica, and slide steel guitar. 
Sat. Sept. 29____
The foot-stompin' concert will emphasize country rock and western swing, and it will begin 
Rich Prezioso (9:3o-?)
after the pep rally and continue until midnight. 
Tickets are available at the 
Gene Barbanera 
Student Union Office, 2nd floor LaFortune, at the advance price of $2. 50 Purchase price at the door is $3.00 
Direct Diamond Importers 
the task force is stationed at the inside and outside of the stad-I ewelers Since 1917 
ium gates. Twenty state troop­ers aid in directing the traffic outside the stadium, according Special 15% Discount on to Jos. P. Wall, former Dir. of 
ALL Merchandise to Notre Dame 
N.D. Security. 
"The stadium guards, who are and Saint Mary's Students. 
mainly from the South Bend Police Dept. and the St. Joe's Sheriff Office, basically try to Town and Country, Concord and keep the crowd under control. 
University Park Mall Open Daily 10-9
Although in past years there _ have been minor incidents such 
as intoxicated fans displaying r,!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~:l obscene signs on the field and KNIGHTS 
brawls in the stadium, Notre 
Dame fans are a relatively good 
crowd," Wall said. 
OF 
On the problem of stolen tickets, Security will work with COLUMBUS 
Mike Busik, Box Office Ticket 
Manager. 
"If a person is caught with a Will hold an ·stolen ticket, we will question 
the person as to where s/he 
purchased it," Wall said. "But 
'ADMISSION DEGREE 
'we just can't hold an interroga­-
tion because for all we know the tickets might have been obtain­ed legally." 
First-aid rooms must be stock­ed with supplies, and e~tra first-aid vehicles will be station­

ed within the_ stadium as a 
Sunday September 30 
precautionary measure. "Last year we has so many 
.at 2:00pm
problems with the heat, especi­ally during the Missouri game. People were passing out in the 
at K of C Hall stands and a few suffered heatstroke/' said Wall. 
.Tacket and tie requested. 
------~-------~----"--­

The Observer Friday, September 28, 1979 -page 4 

For new library 
Council to discuss fund-raising 

'GATER 

FOR 
OBSERVER WSNDSTAFF 
----Greenfield near senior bar 
before the l(ame tomarrow starttnl( at 10:30 hot dol(s .25f 
WOMEN. YOU'RE EQUAL IN THE AIR FORCE. 
Women start out on the same footing as men 111 AIT Force ROTC Women wear the >arne 1n"gmd and hold the same cadet positions in AFHOTC. JUS! as they do later on as AIT Force offlct>Ts 
And the sanll' AFHOTC scholdr>hl[l can he yours as a woman If you qualify. you can have your tuition. book costs ,md lah fees pdid by the Air Force. dnd receive $100 a month for otlwr expense> It helps free you to concentrate on your educat1on And that's important 
A' ,m AIT Force officer. you'll be expected to use your tra1n 1n9 dnd educa11on. and he a lender mdnag~ng people dnd LOmplex .yslems You'll he hdnded execu11ve responsih1hty SldTIIng w11h your hrsl JOO 
lfs r1 grPat way to hi! !:.'qual. dnd d gn!al way to .,erve your country Check 11110 the AFHbTC program at your cdmpus He 'ure to ask dhoul AFHOTC 'cholarship' -you rnay he ht~lpmg vour... t->11 etJrn an I!XCiting new life~tyle 
AFROTC DET. 225 University of Notre Dame Captain Norris (219) 283-6~63_4~...... 
0 

by Pam Degnan Senior StaffReporter 
The Board of Directors of the Saint Mary's Parents Council 
will  meet  this  weekend  to  
discuss the  fund-raising  cam­ 
paigns  for  the  new  library,  

according to Mina Costin, Di­rector of Planned Giving. 
"The 23 couples, comprising the Board of Directors, will meet in a series of committee sessions with Dr. Duggan. In these sessions, Duggan will present the financial and archi­tectural plans of the library to the Board members," Costin said. 
Established in 1966, the Par­ents Council has always been an extremely effective organi­zation, according to Public Re­lations Director Nancy Kom­mers. 
"Some parents have had 2 or 3 daughters enrolled in Saint Mary's at one time and yet had found the time to actively serve on the Council,'' explained Kommers. 
According to its written consti­tution, the main objectives of the Parents Council are: 1) to keep parents informed of the College's policies, plans and directives and 2) to provide a means through which parents may transmit their ideas, opini­ons and suggestions to the College. 
Every parent or ~uardian of a student enrolled m Saint Ma­ry's automatically becomes a member of the Council. 
However, the Board of Direc­tors, based on their diverse geographical locations and pro­fessiOnal skills, are appointed by the President of the College. Their function is to assist the College in the planning ·fromo­ting and sponsoring o social events. 
The Council as an organization functions within three principal committees. Appealing for alumni contributions and mone­tary gifts to the College, the Development Committee initi­ates various fund-raising cam­paigns. The Admissions Com­mittee works in conjunction with the Admissions Office in overseeing student enrollment. The Career Development Com­mittee explores job opportuni­ties for graduating seniors. 
Carpenter 
to lecture ort Inklings 
Humphry Carpenter of Ox­ford, England, will lecture on "The Inklin~s" (C. S. Lewis, J. 
R. R. Tolkten, Charles Willi­ams, and friends): Their Ideas And Interest,'' tomorrow at 7:30p.m. in Hayes-Healy Audi: torium. Mr. Carpenter is the author of ].R.R. Tolkien: a Biography and of The Inklings. He is currently editing (with t:hristopher Tolkien) the letters of J.R.R. Tolkien. 
Because ofnew residents 
New dorms needparking 
by Ann Hesburgh 
Additional housing requires additional parking, and this is precisely the problem that Fr. John Van Wolvlear, Vice Presi­dent for Student Affairs, is trying to solve. "Some ar­rangements must be made with the construction of two new dorms underway," he said. 
Several parking proposals have been submitted to Van W olvlear during the past two years. He said they have been ''well received.'' 
The most acceptable and feasi­ble proposal that has been submitted thus far calls for the development of the space be­hind the ROTC building alon~ Dorr Road. If developed, u would provide parking for Car­roll, Lyons, Morrissey, and Howard Halls, said Van Wolv­lear. 
In an interview, former direc­tor of security, Joe Wall, com­mented that development of this space would require an entrance onto campus from US 31, and this would alleviate traffic problems at the other gates. 
Construction of a US 31 en­trance onto campus has been a problem in the past because of heavy traffic and absence of a 
SU Social Commission and Redneck mother music 
Ptesent 
The STEPAN STOmP CONCERT 
Ftlday September 28 In Stepan Center Following the Rally until midnight The Best Country music Provfded by 
Bob Berk and the San Antonio Express 
ncketa 
12.50 P1e1ale available at the SU Tfcket Office 
13.00 at the Doot 
turning lane. But now, since 
both a by-pass and turning lane 
have been constructed, these 
problems no longer influence 
the decision of whether addi­
tional parking in this area 
would be feastble. 
Other parking proposals that 
have been submitted include 
the eastward and northward 
expansions of D-1, and the 
development of the field behind 
Moreau Seminary. 
''The expansion of D-1 may 
cause problems for the An Tostal people. They would have to find a new location for the mud {>its," commented.Wall. 
Addttional parking behind Moreau would be advantageous for those who walk between the campuses, because an entrance would have to be constructed at the light, making the road a much safer one to travel. A guardhouse at this location would comply with a suggestion made to security in the 1978 security audit. 
Task Force sponsors tournament 
The United Religious commu­'nity World Hunger Task Force is sponsorin~ the URC World Hunger Invitational Racquet­ball Tournament to be held on Friday and Saturday, October 5 and 6 at the South Bend YWCA, 1201 Northside Blvd. 
The t~urnament will begin on Friday at 6:15 p.m. and will conclude on Saturday by B p.m. Prizes will be awarded for the tounament winner and the con­solation round winner, and for those who raised the most funds in sponsors~ip._ 
Further informatton and entry and sponsor forms can be obtained by calling the URC office at 282-2397. 

The Observer 
House approves ne-w departm.ent 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House gave approval yesterday to a bill creatms a new Depart­ment of Education and sent the 
' measure to President Carter. The House voted 215-201 to create the 13th Cabinet agency. During his 1976 campaign, Carter had promised to place the government's education programs within a single new agency. The Senate passed the mea­sure Monday. The measure will reduce the size of the Department of Health, Education ahd Welfare and will rename the agency the Department of Health and Hu­man Resources. As the House vote was an­nounced, a cheer went up out­side the chamber where private supporters of the proposal, many of them teachers, had 
From panty raid accident 
Injured student continues recovery 
Ken Ohishi, the Notre Dame freshman injured Wednesday nisht during the annual panty ratd at Saint Mary's, remams in satisfactory condition at Me­morial Hospital. Ohishi; who fractured two vertebrae in his back when he fell from a second-story window ledge of Regina South, will probably be released in a week to resume classes. There was no injury to 
Explore the SECOND FLOOR of the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Subjects Include: f(S 
.f(13oo
coo ~ 
his nervous system. 
Dr. Leslie Bodnar, M.D. the orthopedic surgeon at ND's Student Health Center who is handling Ohishi's case, com­mented that while ''outlook is good," Ohishi may require temporary bracing of the neck in the future, as well as ''considerable restrictions to rough-housing and panty raids." 
Books Are A Great Gift Idea 
been waiting. 
The new department is the second created during Carter's term. The Energy Department was established m 1977. 
Under the legislation, more than 150 federal programs will be transferred to the new agency. The education division in the Department of Health, 
Education and Welfare will be the heart of the new agency, but programs from the depatt­ments of Agriculture. Justice, Housing and Urban Develop­ment, Labor and other agencies will be added. ­
The new department will have a budget exceeding $14 billion and will have about 18,000 employees. 
The debate over the Educa­tion Department pitted the two largest teacher organizations 
-Dinners featurt 1 Northern ~hinese & Cantonese Cuisine 900 Ireland-1 block west of Scottsdale Mall 291-7373 
against one another. The Na­tional Education Association, the largest teacher organ­ization, actively supported the idea. But the rival American Federation of Teachers led the opposition. 
After the House vote, Carter called it ''a significant mile­stone in my effort to make the federal government more ef­ficient." He said the new de­partment would give the Amer­Ican people ''a much clearer picture of what the federal gov­ernment is doing in education and who is in charge of those activities.'' 
Carter planned to have breakfast Friday with the NEA board of directors. The board is expected to endorse Carter's re-election. 
China Gar ens Restaurant 
Banquet Facilities up to 200 people 
-
-Happy Hour 4-7 Live entertainment & dancing ~ All exotic Polinessian Drinks & traditional cocktails 


NOTRE DAME ONE HUNDRED YEARS* By Father Arthur J. Hope C. S.C., hard­bound $12.95, paperback $7.95. A detailed history_ of Notre Dame, orinally published 
in 1943. 
''We aren 't JUST textbooks _you know I'' 
ARJ.. 
----­
THE DAME 1980 CALENDAR By Philip C. Thompson $5.95. A lasting gift {the 12 prints can be 
framed). 
75 YEARS OF NOTRE DAME ALL-AMERICANS, paperback $6.95. Photos and descriptions of Notre Dame All-Americans 
from 1903-1978. 
THE FIGHTING IRISH By William Gildea And Christo­pher Jennison, regularly$12.95, now on SPECIAL $5.98. Dram­atic stories of N.D. 's Football History tl:rough the )Years. Includes a gallery of rare and exclusive photos. 
l , ~ 
The Observer Friday, September 28, 1979 -page 6 
CANOE RENTAL 
12 miles from campus GROUP RATES. TRANSPORTATION AVAILABLE 
Float the St.]oe or the fast Dowagiac 

Call616/695-22)0 for reservations 
THE SPORT CORNER 
320 N. Redbud Tr., Buchanan, Mich. 
--------------------------il
o,tl! ....., ....... Il-l Fri., Sit. "·" I
s•. II:JI.I I "Meet me at the I bright green sign" 
, 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
,r 
r 
~The 233~747 
r
, ~ • enctcrBuii~;R~;~~eo•soNI 
, r ---------------------------
SACRAMENTO-Calif. (AP)­Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. does not--as some think--spend all of time getting advice from an odd bunch of gurus, actress­es, ex-astronauts and counter-culture folk. 
The would-be president's cir­
cle of advisers mcludes all of 
those people. 
But it also includes powerful, 
conservative business execu­
tives, politi~;ally seasoned cam­
paign aides and an array of 
nonpolitical scholars, authors, 
and activists. 
Tom Hayden, the aquitted Chicago Seven defendant and anti-war activist of the 1960's and Hayden's wife, actress Jane Fonda, are among people Jerry Brown often turns to for advice and ideas. 
So are Rusty Schweickart, the 
philosophical Apollo 9 astro­
naut; Stewart Brand, publisher 
of the Whole Earth Catalog; 
and Jesse Jackson, the black 
political and religious leader. 
Brown also spends time, 
however, listening to some of 
In addition to gurus 
Brow-n gets advice from. tnany 
California's most influential 
businessmen such as A. W. 
Clausen of the Bank of America 
and Ben Biaggini of Southern 
Pacific Co. 
And he spends long hours, at irregular intervals, discussing the nature of man with nonpoliri cal figures such as anthropolo­gist Gregory Bateson and San Francisco Zen Center abbot Baker-Roshi. 
For Brown, a 41-year-old Democrat, this quest for a broad range of advice is a part of what he calls his ''canoe theory" of politics: "You paddle a little bit on the left, then you paddle a little bit on the right side, and then you paddle straight down the mid· 
die." 
Critics view Brown's canoe theory as a political ploy aimed at crassly stroking various inte· rest groups and playing one-by­one to the presidency. But those who represent various ideas say Brown is receptive to them. 
Clausen, who visits Brown 
r 
' 
UUIVeRSITYPaRK 
CLEVELAND AT GRAPE ROAD 
It's Allin Store For You... 
Alberts Cressy & Everett Realtors Karmelkorn Shoppe Redwood & Ross 
Animal Empire Evenson's Cards & Gifts Kinney Shoes Regis Hairstylists 
Athlete's Foot Father & Son Shoes Lane Bryant Richman Brothers 
L.S. AYRES First National Bank Lerner Shop J. Riggings Baker Shoes Florshelm Shoes The Limited J.B. Robinson Jewelers Berman Buckskin Fox's Jewelers Lion's Den Scotto Pizza Bernard Wigs Foxmoor Casuals Loading Dock SEARS Book World Frontier Fruit & Nut Louie's Tux Shop Silverman's Bottom Half Fun-N-Games Lowrey Organ Size 5-7-9 Shop Bresler's 33 Flavors Gantos Marianne Shop So-Fro Fabrics Brown's Sporting Goods The Gap Merle Norman Spencer GIHs Burger Chef General Nutrition Milady Shop Stride Rite Bootery Camelot Music Gilbert's Morrow's Nut House Susie's Casuals Card Cage Gordon Jewelers Mothercare Tammey Jewels Casual Corner Great Hot Dog Experience Muslcland Things Remembered Cavalier Camera Hanover Shoes National Uniform Shop Thom MeAn Shoes Charlie Chan Restaurant Hickory Farms Naturallzer Shoes The Tinder Box Chess King Homemaker Shop Newman's Village Scene Chick-Fil-A Hot Sam's Nobll Shoes Wags Restaurant Cinema I, II, Ill House of VIsion Orange Julius Walden Books Circus World Toys *J.L. HUDSON Osco Drugs Wlcks-N-Stlcks Claire's Boutique *Hush Puppies Parklane Hosiery World Bazaar Clifford's Diamond Center Jean Nicole *J.C. PENNEY Your Father's Mustache 
*Clock Collection Jeans West Piercing Pagoda Zale's Jewelers Cookie Factory Jo-Ann Fabrics· Radio Shack County Seat Just Jeans Red Cross Shoes *Opening soon 
OVER 90 SHOPS AND SERVICES FOR ALL YOUR / SHOPPING NEEDS ••••••• JUST A FIVE MINUTE DRIVE AWAY! 

UOIVeRSITY PaRK 
CLEVELAND AT GRAPE ROAD 
Mall Hours: Mon thru Sat 1 0 am -9 pm, Sunday 1 2 -5:30 pm 
A joint venture development of The Edward J. DeBartolo Corporation, managing partner, and Cressy Associates 

every six to 12 months for a lunch of cold cuts and a discussion of business, de­scribes the governor as a fiscal conservative open to ideas from businessmen but "a bit unpre­dictable.'' 
Hayden, too, says he finds Brown receptive to his left­leaning politics, adding: "I think we get more out of him than the Bank of America 
gets.,. The result of Brown's "canoe process'' is usually a synthesis ­a favorite Brown word -of ideas from rival factions. · For example, he supports a constitutional convention to ba­lance the federal budget -a goal of the far right -but argues that as well as imposing fiscal displine, a balanced budget would force Congress to make hard choices about such things as excessive defense spending. Hayden and Miss Fonda are Brown's most controversial ad­visers, mainly because of their opposition to the Vietnam War. Brown has appointed Hayden to three non-paying posts and Miss Fonda to the California Arts Council, but her appoint­ment later was vetoed by the State Senate after debate over her Hanoi visits during the war. 
• • . Stadium 
[continued from page 19] 
The major change for the 
concessions consumer will be a 
"sausage sandwich" according 
to winter. Hoffman expressed 
hope that the quarter pound, 
polish smoked sausage would 
be a success. 
"Otherwise, there will be no 
new items on the menu," 
Winter said. Prices will rise 
slightly due to the rate of 
inflation, he commented. Win­
ter also reminds the people who 
complain abourprices that con· 
cesston pnces ar< :lv 
higher because ol ,;jj 
labor and the d<··· a 
decent return of 11 
Valdiserri commented that the number of people and the amouni: of time which is put into each football weekend is phen­omenal. Twentyy-five sports information people work up in the booth during a game and app~oximately 170 work in con­cessiOns. 
Phyllis Hoffman summed up the ethic behind all of this: "It is hard work, but god, it's a lot of fun." 
ND Players seek workers 
The Notre Dame Student play­ers are looking for students interested in becoming inyolved in their present production of 
St?_p the World, I Want to Get Off! EspeCially need_ed are mdividuals to help wtth set construction, lighting, and pub­licity. All destring to join the Student Players should sign the list in the Student Union Offi­ces. No experience is n~ces­sary; an enJoyable expenence for all is assured. 


Editorials 
Campaign strategy 
ASHINGTON--Many con­gr smen and senators who ha to run for office next year are serious trouble. Their 

ents are unhappy and 
l that somehow Con­gress i to blame for a lot of their wpes. 
There~re, we may see them Cflmpaigrung on foreign issues rather th. "1 d<>mestic ones. This could I•<" a dangerous time f, •• Americans and the world. In order lO w1n 11-11 election many sane legislators are willing to 
r get the voters riled up about 
r 
different parts of the world 
r 
which only seem to be a threat 
r 
to our national security during 
r
, 
an election year. I attended the strategy meet­
r
, ing of Congressman Larry Bilge and his campaign staff the 
,r ?ther day and It was enlighten­
, 
mg. r "Larry," his manager said, r ''the poll results just came in r and the people in your district are sore as hell about energy, inflation, and unemployment, not to mention the price of coffee. We got problems." "Don't tell me." Bil~e said. 
"I was home last weekend and my own mother told me she doesn't think I should have a raise. And I support her." 
The manager said, ''The thing we have to do is avoid the issues that are bugging the voters and bring up new ones that they haven't thought of." 
''Give me the scenario,'' Bilge said. 
"Okay, you're going·to a town meeing in Daisy County next week. The first thing they're going to ask you is why they have to par 90 cents a gallon for heating oi .'' 
"What's my answer?" 
"You can't do anything about heating oil until the United States gets the Soviet troops out of Cuba." 
"Do I want to go to war with Cuba?" Bilge asked. 
His press secretary replied, ''That decision is up to the President, but the time has come to stand up to the Soviets and say, 'no with­drawal·· no SALT.'" 
'_'I got it. Now what hap~ens 

~All¥< 0~/.~iVf, IF! I M4Y Jl/ST H4K& 
a/& LAST CQ41MCNT.. 
rrLe Observer-­
-.1 Jl 
&xQ Notre /J4ttU, IN 46JJ6 
Art Buchwald 
when they ask  me  what Con­ 
~ress  intends  to  do  about  
snflation? ' '  

"Tell them," his sreechwriter said, "that the rea danger to this country is not inflation bm the_ Panama Canal Treaty, whtch you voted against. Say that you are not going to allow a rwo-bit dictator in a banana republic to push this counrty around. The time has come to fish or cut bait." 
"I like that phrase," Bilge said. "Let me write it down." The campaign manager refer­red to his yellow pad. "Okay, now we have a large unemploy­ment problem in the district ever smce the Cannible Radio Co. pulled out and moved to the Sun Belt. Some wise guy is probably going to ask you what you intend to do about jobs." . "There's one in every crowd," 
Bilge said. 
''You tell him the reason they don't have jobs is because we have a missile gap with the Soviet Union, and by 1985 we will be a second-class power. 
Unless the United States wakes up to the military threat from Moscow the unemployment rate will soar in this country and the economy of the Free World will collapse without the Com­munists firing one shot.'' 
''So much for the unemploy­ment problem. What do I do when they ask me about the high cost of medical care?" 
"You bring up the Cuban troops in Angola. There are now 50,000 Cuban troops in An~ola pointing a dagger at the enure African continent, and if Castro doe.sn' t pull them out soon you Intend to see that Congress does.'' 
"I k~ow they're going to complam about food prices." 
"Your answer to that," the press secretary said, ''is that if the Vietnamese don't do some­thing about the boat people you are ~oing to urge the President to wipe Hanoi off the face of the earth.'' 
''That should do it,'' 'Bilge said. "If this doesn't prove I'm concerned with their problems, nothing will.'' 
(c) 1979, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 
Friday, September 28, 1979 -pa,ge 8 

'Student Government' inappropnate 
One of the grandest misno­
mers which has been widely 
used on this campus for some 
time now is the term "Student 
Government." Surely some­
thing like "Student Voice" 
would be more appropriate. 
For the words "Student Gov­
ernment'' imply a ruling body 
which writes, implements and 
enforces rules and regulations 
over its constituency, excerci­
sing its other powers and duties 
whenever it IS deemed neces­
sary. 
The Notre Dame "Student 
Government'' (and I do not 
include the Student Union in 
\his otherwise broad grouping) 
h.1.s none of these capabilities. 
In a front page story entitled ''SG defines role as political branch,'' SBP Roche saidc the goal of "Student Government" IS to increase student input into Administrative decisions. The article then added that "mem­bers of SG take the views of the student body to the members of the administration and, hope­fully (my emphasis), influence poltcy decision-making. 'We see ourselves as student advo­cates,' said Bill Vita, SBVP, ·'and we try to be articulate 
spokesmen.' '' 
The next paragraph brings it all home. "In the opinion of Roche, the SG really has not 
~.I THINK~ /71111?. 70 S4Y THAT IFITHAP NOT 8!ieN fa'< 1/le W61LMC& (F lN& U.5. 5/illltm, TH/5 MAolOR 00515 IN 
CJ/811 MI6HT HAVE ~W INTD A Ml~ PIPI/JfllltTlC 8i£ &A51LYlfAN/JJBJ 
8Y71EST~ ~£NT.--­
administrat.ion of either institution. 
The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opimon of a majority of 
the Editorial Board. Commentaries, 
'power,' in the sense that 
'power' means the ability to 
make decisions and to imple­
ment them. Hopefully (there's 
that word again), what the SG 
has is 'influence.' When the 
administratio() is making a de­
cision, the SG leaders want to 
be there ·· to voice the views of 
the students and to make a 
good case." 
The point of all this cynicism is that the true body that governs the students here is comfortably ensconced under the Golden Dome, referred to by ~II that all-encompassing montker ''The Administra­tion." Our "Student Govern­ment'' is in effect a lobbying group, sort of like the National Rifle Association, only without the influence. · 
If in fact our "Student Gov­ernment'' did have some influ­ence, its existence would have some validity and purpose. But it clearly does not. The Hall Presidents Council, the Judicial Council, Carroll Hall and every­body else vehemently protested parietals last fall, to no avail. The administrators all had a good chuckle, and then said quite forcefully, ''No.'' Then they threatened us with a lottery and involuntary off-cam­pus housing, and when our "Student Government" pro­

Tom Jackman 
tested South Bend living condi­tions, they replied, "Oh well, enough of you have moved off campus on your own, we won't be needing a lottery after all," and the issue was dropped. 
A remedy is needed_­
At least one, no more than 
two students serving as voting 
members of the Board of Trus­
tees would be invaluable sour­
ces of first-hand knowledge of 
campus issues for those board 
representatives who contribute 
their big checks annually, but 
can't keep in touch with what's 
really going on here. They 
would also be an important 
voice that could not be ignored 
as easily as the administrators 
do now. 
StH~ent re_£resentatives 
Jioould. be. selectea 'in the same 
maPner as present SB elec­
liOns, with campaigns, races et 
al, for this vastly more impor­
tant position. Administrators 
might argue that necessarily 
confidential University busi­
ness would soon become cam­
pus-wide gossip (such as busi­
ness holdings in countries 
which openly discriminate on 
the basis of race), but they'll 
just have to trust us for once. 
This isn't a complete solu­
tion. Students should have 
representation on a// important 
administrative ruling bodies-­
and the importance of this is not 
to be underestimated. After 
all, as they say at the stadium, 
"We are ND," not the c..:>ntri­
buting alumni, and we're pay­
ing our fair share too. For that, 
we should at least have a 
recognized, articulate voice to 
represent us. Right now, we 
don't. 
Postscript: After this article 
·was written, Fr. ] ohn 
VanWolvlear rejected our "Stu­
dent Government's" keg pro­
posal, despite the fact that 
Keenan rector Fr. Richard Con­
yers stated that "The pro_posal 
represents the majority opmion 
of both rectors and students." 
Editorial .Board and Department Managers 
Sports Editor..................Mark Perry
Editor-in-chief ........Rosemary Mills 
Managing EJitor..........Diane Wilson Features Et:/ilor.....Kathleen Connelly Photo Editor...............Doug Christian
Editorial Editor..............Ann GaJes 
opinions and letters are che views of Senior Copy Editor.........M. Onufrak The Obsen~er is an independent their authors. Column space is avail-Execu#ve News EJitor......Mike ~wis Busi11ess M41111ger........Steve Odland oe"WSpapet' publish~ by the Students able co all members of the community, News Editor....................Mark Rust Produclio11 M4tulger.......Tun Sullivan ofthe University of Notre Dame dulac and the free expression of varying News Editor..................Mike Shields Advertisi11g !tl41111ger.........Bob Rudy apd .s.ill~ Maq''s College. _I~ does .not. opi9}~11s on_c_a~p~s ttu"ough letters, is SMC Execuh've Editor ..... Eil~n Buddfi C~"~········· .........Kevin Manion
1
m9~X..f~IFH .fJlFJ W~~~-9{ ,t\tf......51\c~pf"54,;;...,... '~"'-' .• -., . .-•.H·K~!')'C!~§~·~.r~/..L.:~:;~arB!~ B~s!_ ..• •.?.rcuJ:'.."!,_• ~~~~: ....:~~ ~':~~es 
: :a _ .. : t J : u . . : .. ~ a -' ~ : :.. _ : 
( ,,
,
,
,
,
The Observer -Editorials Friday, September 28, ..1979-pa~~ 9 , 
P.O. Box Q 
will be avoided m the future. tickets because tbey "work" for Concert tickets are sold by a them. Does this elitism nowTicket dash lottery, and alumni certamly extend to GA football tickets? 
don't sprint across campus to 
get their football tickets. 3) The appalling lack of Maybe with some careful Security personnel to control
a fiasco 
thought in the future everyone the crowd is inexcusable. One can come out of something like cannot suddenly assemble hun­this sound of mind and body. dreds of people without some 
Dear Editor: form of crowd control. Matt Chalifoux 4) The "throat" attitude of
Having been a participant in ~any ~ho participated wasthe 1979 U.S.C. ticket marathon disgusting. It is unfortunate run, I feel it necessary to that we were not able tocomplain to the organizers. 
overcome bad management and The complaint is two-fold, one 
concerns safety, the other san­TiCket System frustration. 
ity. 5) Th~ srste.r:n ?f running for Imagine at 7:30p.m. 300-400 'insane' tickets Is discnmmatory against those who are not physically
st~d.ents running, biking, and able to make a long dash acrossdnvmg to the ACC from all over Dear Editor: campus. The system elimin­campus. In the dark the ates, de factor, the handi­campus is a very formid;1ble As concerned students we capped, the injured, and mostobstacle course. Posts wires must express our condemnation women. The system says that if
and of course other ' peopl~ of Tuesday night's "Mad Ticket added to the fun. How many Dash." The run for the you are not among the 250 
fastest people on campus thenpeople were injured, I don't Homecoming Ticket P~ckage you a~e not eligible for tickets.
know, but the sight of a biker was one of the most msane That 1s a pretty poor condition. 
running into a post, cut off by a things that we have seen here-runner, was not funny to see. . at Notr~ Dame. Specifically our The solutions to this problemEven more thou~htless, how­complamts are: seem to be obvious but unfor­
ever, was locating the sale ~unately they require changesplace across a public road. The 1) T_he run was dangerous. 
m a few Notre Dame traditions. 
organizers should have realized Runnmg across·· campus with (Ouch!) The Homecoming
that a red light is nothing hundreds of other students at game should not be playedcompared to two U.S.C. tickets, night, is insane. Fortunat~ly, against USC. The double but the car that had to skid to a there were no major injuries. 
attraction of a game againsthalt on ] unipe~< Road probably USC and the Homecoming Tick­didn't see it that way. 2) We believe that certain et Package is obviously a drainAs far as sanity goes, it was students--more specifically on available ticket resources.
very hard for some people to some members of the Student More directly, however, wekeep theirs after finding out Union, friends of the organi­should abandon the insanethat 247 packets were on sale, zers, and a few clever stu­method of running after tickets. 
not the 50 Jim O'Brien an-dents--knew (not ~uessed) the
distribution point m advance. It is dangerous. It is unfair. It nounced on i:he radio. More This is unfair. The student is degrading. It is blatantly tha~ one person stopped short body should not put up with stupid. It would be vastly more seemg a. hn_e of 100-150 people blatant abuse of office. The intelligent to hold a lottery or to already m hne at Gate 3. Stur""n~ TTnion has been able to let people camp out. With a 
Hopefully this kind ofa fiasco rat! ·1:; ,, "preferred" concert little more common sense we 
================~ 
What counts in the classroom 
Edmund Featherstone 
One of my past professors did not receive service have a connection with teaching. They tenure. I was very surprised. He is one of the can provide the basis for new teaching methods, best teachers I ever had. perspectives, and information. Nevertheless, it 
I remember him well, as one always remem­1s the actual act of teaching inside the classroom bers those teachers who successfully taught as if that establishes what a professor is worth to a they were detonators and the students were student. TNT. Their classes never 
fizzled. I feel a good teacher is one whose It is a pity that in a drive to get the best ~eaching turns learning into a dynamite exper-all-around professors some damn good teachers 1ence. are lost. And the students are the ones who lose 
His teaching did. He never sat during class. the~. Tpe only certain winner is the university He was always on his feet, walking back and and Its 1mage and reputation. This does not forth before the students, gesturing with his make it a good university. Images and arm~, eyebr?ws and ~boulders, his laughter reputation don't matter much in a classroom. A roan?g or h1s deep voice resounding with the good university is a place where the students passiOn he felt for Spanish literature. His •do not wish' they were elsewhere, because they enthusiasm was so contagious that the course's have teachers who make the classroom a good heavy workload was welcomed by the students place to be. as a chance to become further immersed in a My professor, the one. who did not get tenure, ~ubject made so savory by the way it was taught made one glad to be m school. I know this 10 the classroom. feelin8. was shared by my classmates because we 
A good administration knows its first duty is to often discussed how we felt about him. I now prov_ide those thi~gs necessary for a student to know that his other students in other classes receive an education. The key element is good have also felt this way. I went to the teachers. They are more important to a quality administration building and asked to see the of a student's education than expensive books or re~ults of this professor's past teacher evalu­the respected image of a university. The formal ation she.ets. I was told that because of the education of a student takes place in the confidential nature of such information I would classroom, and not in private research labora-nee~ the professor's permission. I was a little tories or scholarly publications. · hesitant about intruding into his affairs. 
I realize a ur.'iversiry has functions other than How~ve~, I telephoned hjm and he gave the fo~mal educ&ti?n, su<:h as professional scholar-perm1ss10n.
sh1p and publtc serv1ce. And these activities The_man who gave me the results took the time should belong as functions of a university, but to pomt 01;1t that.the most c~~sidered question is not at the e:v~ense of a student's education . number mne _wh1ch. states: What overall rating The most crm~al fact about a professor is how would you g1ve this teacher as compared with well he teaches, and not where his articles are o~her teachers you have had at N.D.?". In the published or now much in research grants he can SIX cour~es that the pro~essor taught last year, 
get. he received for quesuon number nine the It would be ideal for a university to have average evaluations of 4.0, 3.9, 3.9, 3.8, 3.8, 4.0. 
professors who excel in all areas: teaching The. mark of 4.0 is the highest a teacher may scholarship, and public service. And it is rece1ve. In the total of 108 averaged evaluations co~mendabl'=' for a university to strive for such he received only four ratings that were below the an 1deal. At i:he same time, all those activities 3.4 mark. 
with the excel)tion of teaching, have more to d~ From the student perspective he is a success as with affairs ovtside than inside the classroom. a teacher· Professor LeMay is an excellent They have 'llOre to do with building a teacher, 3:nd this for me, and for my fellow university's i.·•~blic esteem than with stimulating studen~s, Is what real_ly counts. It would be a student min~. I know scholarship and public real mistake to let hlffi leave our class. 
nao~N i)::'>1d ... · ··"')~W\\\W\ \'!Ot\t:.h~:)"'iJ fiUB18 ~i uM.........,o\"1\i.t! ?.o\l.l~~ "JM7 . .. --..:IN£ C: S: d'!tr " ­
a very bad
could ehmmate situation. 
Michael Gazzerro Mark D. Opnsch johnjehnng 
Cowboy tUrned 
preppie  
Dear Editor:  
Trotting down A venue on my after travelling  Notre weary 1, 150  Dame horse miles  

fro~ Bandera, Texas, I saw for the first time the symbol of Notre Dame tradition --the Golden Dome. 'In my excite­ment and fascination I 
·inadvertently led my horse 'into ·an unrepaired pothole from one of the previous harsh winters Sout~ Bend is infamous for, c_ausm~ my horse and my only hnk w1th home to die. 
From that day 'on I realized I would have to adapt to the changes and challenges Notre Dame life would present. You see, I was raised in a very slow-paced environment where rodeos, cowboys, horses, pick­up. trucks, and "goatropers need love too" stickers prevail. Everyone talks with a long Southern drawl and no one ever gets places very fast because they are too bowlefged from ropmg and ridin~ al day. So, -when I first arnved at Notre 
Dame, I was amazed at what I 
saw. 
Everyone wore Lacoste shirts and. something they ~~­topsiders. The pace they moved at frightened me; I kept wondering where the stampede was, but never found out because every person I asked for directions spoke too fast for me to understand. Adding to my confusion, whenever I would say "howdy ya'll" to some passerby, he would look at me as if I was some sort of hick. 
I've been at Notre Dame now for three years and havecome a long way in this time. I'm not wearing my boots or cowboy hat anymore, and I'm even datmg a guy who wears cords and topsiders. I've learned to walk and talk as fast as anyone else on campus. Much to every­one's surprise, I've even stopped sayin~ "howdy ya'll" --now I say "h1 you guys." My only problem is when I go home no one likes the way I talk or dress, and more important, no one recogn1zes me without my. horse. , 
K.4/yHicks 
Water sprinklers wage war 
Dear Editor: 
' "Watch out! There it comes!" 
Those words are heard quite often during the course of the average day. As you might have guessed this warning con­cerns the secret beast hidden on the lawns throughout the campus. 
Those seemingly innocuous water sprinklers which appear to run tncessantly 24 hours a innocent student and attack with ruthless vigor. These senseless attacks are totally unprovoked as the young men and women only wish to make their passage by the beast with no intent of malice towards it. 
Another interesting feature in the undeclared war of the water sprinklers is their esclation. 
Have you noticed how what started with a mere handful of sprinklers has turned into a veritable army of the soaking thin~s? Amazing! Did the orifmals reproduce or did they cal upon their allies in hiding when they thought our guard was down? 
Anyway, the fact of the matter is they are here. What shall we do? The rumor heard on campus is that the invaders will disappear by this weekend, affiicted by a strange disease called "allumni fever." Little is known about this nemesis of the seemingly invulnc-rahlr water sprinkler, but it is doubt­ful it will be capable of killing the beast. 
Ifin fact "Alumni Fever" does 
quash· the rebellion of the 
sprinklers this weekend, what 
will happen on Monday? I fear 
a return but only time will tell! 
Thomas C. jennings 
Ink spots continue.... 
Dea1· L~ditor: 
Mr. McGurn in his Sept. 24 r,..,.. -"" .ny oril!i11al essay is .t.u•f>•·"'nt at m} oei•.0 :ndig­nant. His humor deflates my anger. But to what point? I am arguin~ for something. 
I am argumg for teachers that have been unfairly dismissed. I am not asking you to be angry because I am; I asked you to look around, to find out whether the teachers that you care for most are or are not tenured and to support them. (Please call me at 232-9264 or Tim Beatty at 288-2465, we are trying to organize a student response!) 
I am arguing for list~ning to 
what black South Africans have 
to say about their own nation. 
In that I thought that I was 
being sensitive; considerin~ the 
history of whites in Afnca I 
think 1t most arrogant for any of 
us to say that we know better. 
I was not taking a "cheap shot 
at a religious belief'' that so 
many hold "near and dear to 
them." Far from it! I was 
~o.u~ting on that very belief to 
mltlate a protest against these 
and other administration pol­
lCies. The shared values of this 
community are absolutely cen­
tral to my accusation. How else 
could I protest the Administra­
tion not livir:g up to Christian 
values? 
Mr. McGurn calls for more 
thought. I sa:. yt>:s , but then 
we damn well better act. He 
says don't sacrifice long range 
benefits and I say right, but 
don't damn well use that as a 
mask for complacency. In a 
very short eight months our 
professors will be lost for good. 
He says to be patient, and I s~v 
tell that to the South African 
blacks. They've been waiting 
too damn long. 
Mr. McGurn is ~ike the king 
who upon heanng from a 
messenger that his land is torn 
with troubles has the man 
beaten. The kingdom remains 
troubled. 
1

\ 
The Observer Friday, September 28, 1979 -page 1 
,-------------~--------------­
The Poems ~{ P?J'eJohn Rzulll 
on Cassette 
•ln.,lmUoMI 
""enlng wt;le dri•ng •• ,..,.;ng. 

• 
An ideal Christmas gift. 

• 
Available by mail-order delivery only. 


Full-length reading of the only English translation author­ized by the Vatican Recorded by special arrangement 
with Random House. publishers
$795 
plus Sl 00 handling and postage (Calif. residents add 6% sales tax.) Sand check or money-order Please do not mail cash or sramps Ssllsflctlon gu~rsnteed 
Books on Tape. Inc. Dept J 1 . PO Box 7900, Newport Beach. CA 92660 Phone· (714) 548-5525 
Name------------------------------­Street-----------------------------­City. State. Zip __ -~---­
;: 
r r 
r r r 
,r 
r 
r;;;.:1:')i;ii·;
((f),
· ..i 
-:=-" ).· 
H;,>pt.·.·ld····l·''·'·'·f···.·la··..l·Jill.' 
_fj1flll ··
....~·· 
~.. 
711 W.17th St. Costa Mesa. CA 92627 
JAMES BROLIN MARGOT KIDDER 
~:rEIGER ~· 
AMI1WILLE .,. ­
HORROR~:!, 
~:;,_TDMt. ~ 
: 
There are many ways to be seduced. Joe Tynan knows them all.y 
ALAN ALDA I BARBARA HARRIS 
THE §EDUCTION OFJOE TYNAN 
~ ONIVf RSAt PlCTURl ~ 
SHOWS 
SHOWS '2:15-4:50-7:40-9:5C 
2:15-4:4 5-7:10-9:20 
·.:..·,:_.·. ~
•.-~a:~•-·•'·,,, .-.~mamaa 
BETTER AND MORE ENTERTAINING. 
"MORE AMERICAN GRAFFITI'~ 
SHOWS 2:15-4:40-7:25-9:45 . 
r 
~----------------· 
r 
I s2.00 OFF I
r 
' r I I 
Get $2.00 off any Family Size pizza with 1I -this COUROn. Limit one coupon per pizza 
~ 
I ordered. No other offer valid. I 
~ 
I Expires 10/4/79 I I I I PizzA I
I I
PARLOR 
~ I 
I I 
SeniOR Class 'tRip mon€Y €Xchan4€ ~OQ P€sos tn acapulco 
p1ck up appllcattons 1n Stubrnt act1Vtti€S o~~~C€ no o~ smc any bay th1s W€€k ~€tU~n BY ~~lbay S€pt 28. ffiOn€Y Will 6€ blsttBUt€b on t~av€1 mc;ht Oct. 16 $50 mtmmum no maxtmum .any non 1.&5 c1t1z€ns GPtnc; on t~IP pte.as€ contact Stub€l)t acttvltt€s 
no oQ smc 
Tb CefWl ANCAKE HOUSE Ftutei&J R~ 

, 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 

With changing society 
Journalist helps man cop 
NEW YORK (AP) -James a leap in the rate of change that 
Burke's sl~uth-like pursuit, 
deep into his'tory, of the roots of 
some modern technolo~ical 
marvels, is, in a sense, his way 
of helping . man ~ope with an 
ever-changmg society. 
"I think we live in a brief, transitional period," says · Burke, a British journalist and television commentator, "Bet· ween the time when knowing facts was important and when the ability to find information will be primary.'' 
Burke says the objective of his book, "Connections: An Alter­native View of Change," and the 10-part TV series of the same name, is rather simple: ''If we can figure out how the world got the way it is, we may be able to exert some influence over the way it will be in the future." 
"Connections," a co-produc­tion of BBC-TV and Time-Lite Television, will be offered sta­tions in the Public Broadcasting Service network on a weekly basis, beginning Sunday, at 8 
p.m. EDT. As with most PBS programs, aid date and time may vary. 
Individual hour-long programs trace through history the devel­opment the atomic bomb, tele­communications, the computer, the production line, jet aircraft, p~a~tics, rocketry and tele­VISion. 
In the series' first install­ment, ''The Trigger Effect,'' Burke recreates New York's power blackout of 1965, and traces that event back 7,000 years to ancient Egypt and the mvention of the plough. Burke maintains the plough was the trigger for all ensuing technolo­gical change. 
Though each segment in the series is a fascinating ''detec­tive story" -Burke's descri~;>­tion -the over-all purpose se ts more general. 
''I believe we are on the eve of could catch us off balance. I don't believe we are ready for it." burke says. 
''The vital commodity of the world will be information,'' he says, "and 'Connections' is a way of training people, not to recall and recite facts, but how to -ask questions.'' 
"Connections" is the basis for two educational projects, one using newspapers in many cit­ies, the other involving distrib­ution of materials to colleges, junior colleges and secondary schools. Burke, born in Londonderry, 
Northern  Ireland,  earned  a  
masters  de~ree  in  English  at  
Oxford  Umversity,  and  later  

taught at the universities of 
Bologna and Urbino in Italy. 
From 1966 to 1972, he was co-host for a weekly science program for the British Broad­casting Corp., "Tomorrow's World." He spent four years, 1972-76, as reporter, producer and writer of ''The Burke Special -A One-Man Science Show," for British television. 
He anchored the BBC's cover­age of the Apollo moon flights, and has written and produced a number of documentaries shown in both Britain and the United States. 
"I wanted to find a way of illustrating how change hap­pens," he says of the develop­ment of "Connections," "and incidentally, and only incident­ally, of illustrating scientific 
At K ofC Fr. Joyce discusses range of subjects 
Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, execu­tive vice-president of the Uni­versity, spoke last night to an attentive audience at Knights of Columbus Hall. Fr. Joyce spoke on a wide range of subjects during a question and answer period. inrfuding hous­ing, food c:Pt·-' . and the upcoming:........__""....,. trip to Tokyo, In response to a question concerning the new dorm under construction, {oyce said that this project wil accomodate 500 additional women on campus. But this will in no way alleviate present overcrowding condi­tions. He said he does not foresee, how,ever, any increase in enrollment after this project. A dining hall employee brought up a question concern­
ing the quality of food this year which he said was lower than in years past. Joyce suggested that students indicate their dissatisfaction to their hall rec­tors and use other proper 
channels  to  resolve  the  prob­ 
lem.  
Joyce  was  quite  enthusiastic  

over the upcoming trip to Japan. He said that although there were many obstacles to overcome--scheduling, expen­ses, etc.--everything "fell in line" for the journey half way around the world. The football team and band will be on display in various r.arades, 14 , con£et:ts, . .and exhibitions, as well as in the final game of the season against Miami of Flori­
da. 
In its quest to baptize dead, liztter-day Saints gather names 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -You may not be a Mormon now, but the genealogy arm of the Mormon church wants to give you a chance to reconsider once you slip beyond the vale. 
In its quest to baptize the dead, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints sents genealogists world wide, from the jungles of Indonesia to the parishes of Poland and the libraries of China, gathering millions of names. 
''All they ar~ going to do is make the dead Mormons," said church spokesman Wayne J. Metcalfe. "Everyone that dies deserves that opportunity. Ifhe (the deceased) desires that those ordinances be valid, then they will be." 
Joseph Smith, founder of the 
· Mormon church, said, "The greates responsibility in this world that God has laid upon us is to seek out our dead." 
Like Alex Haley in his search for his roots, one Mormon team trekked deep into the tropical rainforests of Sumatra, where no written records exist, to tape the oral histories of bush peo­ple, recalled as far back as 32 generations by one "remem­berancer.'' 
Records specialist Ted Telford plans a trip to China next month to expand the church's 100,000 valumes of Chinese family hist­ories. 
All together, 3 5 church photo­graphers are pouring over birth, death and marriage records, pa.rish registrie~ an~ land deeds m Poland-,!ndia, Sn Lanka, Chile and other coun­tries to add to the church's nine-floor, microfilm library in Salt Lake City. 
Only the U.S. government and a Colorado firm do more micro­filming than the Morman chursch, whose 640 genealogy workers add 4,000 rolls of microfilm a month. The church's genealo~y library is open to the public and every time a photographer copies a set of records, the doner gets a copy. 
''The major difficulty is the difference in the religion," said Lee Boam, manager of genea­logy acquisitions. "If there's one factor we struggle with, that's it. It's an emotional 
ISSUe. 
''Some of them consider this a continua1.ion of vicious prose­lytising. 'Here come some Mormon missionaries to steal 
' ay more members for their 
urch,' " Boam said. 
ormon genealogists also en­
nter opposition in the Soviet Union, wht're librarians and ar­chivists are afraid to release ,records to a group with ''Amer­t~ ties," he said. Two ex­cept~s are Poland and Hun­
gary. " 
The church hopes to soften 
resistance\ to its .quest for 
records ndt spring when it 
sponsors ':\ worldwide gen­
ealogy conference in Salt Lake 
City, feauring Haley as a 
speaker, Metcalfe said he ex­
pects 10 ,GJO participants from 
more th9n 75 countries to 
attend, including East Ger­
many 
"If we can foster cv0perarion 
and break down these bar­
riers,'' the•t this conference will 
1'absolute;!;,-, unquestionably,'' 
be of gre«t value to the church 
and counu :es that want their 
records p!l."served, Boam said. 

------·----------------~-----, 

•· 
-~­
..---· 
_xtra 
JOrts supplement 

While either Rusty Lisch [left], Ti1!J Koegel [center] or Mike Courey could see action in tomorrow's game, the starting nodwz/1probably go to either Lisch or Courey. 
7th ranked MSU 
ND meets another·powerhouse 
by Brian Beglane Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's two-stop tour of the football-rich Big Ten neighborhoods of Ann Arbor and West Lafayette has ended. Now, .tak~ a· 1-Lr.ecord from their travels, the Insh get to play host tomorrow to yet another Big Ten bully, Michigan State. 
This contest between Notre Dame and the 3-0 Spartans will act as the rubber game of two matches. First, and foremost, it will de~ide Notre Dame's.record for its opening season tour of the Big Ten. Secondly, the final score will tip the scales 1n the modern series record towards some­one. Right now, the scales rest even at 14-14-1. 
"I really hate to believe we will. be playing another Big Ten team as good as Michigan and Purdue,'' said Irish coach Dan Devine, who will be leading his fifth Notre Dame club into a home opener. 
"But it looks that way," he contin­ued. ''Michigan State has greater speed than it did 'last year and has great talent at the skilled positions. Bert Vaughn is a great quarterback and might be as good as Ed Smith (graduated QB from last season). Mark Brammer will be yet another good tight end we have to face this year, maybe the best. 
"And their punter, Ray Stachowicz, is the type of kicker that can keep you backed up all day. Their kicking ~arne is as good as any. \:Q the country. ' 
The Spartans luil a rough time last week at home ag~inst Miami of Ohio. MSU needed a 'six-yard TD pass from Vat'ighn to Brammer with 1:25 remaining to squeak by with a 24-21 victory. Michigan State's other games have been agamst Illinois and Oregon. 
''When you play Notre Dame you play a good football team," said Spartan head coach Darryl Rogers. "They always have good personnel. They had a great win over Michigan and lost to Purdue. If they played them over again, it could be the other way around. 
''Notre Dame has the ability to do what it wants to do, but I think they'll give the ball to Ferguson. He's one of the top. running backs in the country. They have an outstanding offensive line and their defense is maturing." 
Maturing, yes. But healthy, no. A key loss for the Irish last week at Purdue was Dave Waymer, cornerback and premier defender in the Notre Dame secondary. He suffered a bruised knee and may not be able to play Saturday. 
"It does not look too good for Waymer," noted Devine. "If he can't play we will probably go with either Dave Duerson or Rod Bone. They are good, but they also are freshmen. They're being thrown right into the fire. 
For vets and rookies 
''In terms of in/·uries, what has hurt us most was the oss of Dave Mitchell and Pete Buchanan at fullback. ] ohn Sweeney has been doing a commend­able job, but he is just a freshman. We also had to throw him into the fire. We have slacked off at fullback as a result." 
The injuries at fullback (sophomore Tony Belden may see action there) have hurt the Irish ground game and are the probable reasons behind Rogers' belief that Ferguson will be doing most of the running tomorrow. 
But the knee injury to Waymer looms as the key. Wtthout him the Irish could be hurting at pass defense. The Spartans have an effective passing duo in Vaughn and Brammer, and flanker Eugene Byrd also poses a threat in the air. 
Finally, there 1s 
the q~~_r!_e~~a~~---~~-~~al::in~-~:_~~-damn good." 
situation for the Irish. Rusty Lisch missed last week's ~arne at Purdue due to an ankle inJury and forced Devine to shuffle Mike Courey and Tim .Koegel in and out as quarter­backs. ] ust like last week, Devine may : not know who will be the starting 1 signal caller until five minutes before , game time. ' 
"We got as much out of our rotation • of quarterbacks last week as we could," explained Devine. "I don't ' see us doing the same again this week. 
A lot will depend on our injury . situation. It is really a wait and see : matter. 
"It should be a physical game, hard hitting. Michigan State should be as · psyched for thi.s one as Michigan was two weeks ago. And it will be good to I 
There's no place like home for Irish 
by Craig Chval Sports Writer 
If nothing else, Notre Dame's football team will be able to hear a half-decent rendition of the Victory March when the Irish take the field against Michigan State Saturday. 
After two weeks of hearing foreign bands play the Victory March like a funeral dirge, after two weeks of dressing in strange locker rooms, sleeping in strange beds and playing on strange fields, the Fighting Irish are coming home. 
And none too soon. When the Irish make their entrance into Notre Dame Stadium, they won't be running--they'll be limping. And a game before the home crowd could be JUSt what the doctor ordered. Irish halfback Vagas Ferguson has 
been there before, and he KNOWS what kind of effect Saturday's crowd will have... · 
Freshman split end Tony Hunter hasn't been there, and he can't wait to find out what kind ofeffect it will have. 
"Anytime we play at home, it's an advantage with the student body," says Ferguson. ''Especially coming off the loss, I'm sure it will help our morale." 
Hunter, who hasn't played in Notre Dame Stadium, will also be seeing his first game at Notre Dame. 
"I saw some games on TV, and the one I remember most was when they came out with green jerseys and beat Southern Cal," says Hunter. "When I saw that game, I knew I wanted to come here and become a part of that." 
Although he doesn't speak from experience, Hunter is anxious to play before the home crowd. 
"It's going to be really big because we lost last week," he says. "It will help pick us up. 
''Crowd noise doesn't effect me too much emotionally, because I try to block it out. And we played before some pretty big crowds in htgh school. But I do have trouble hearing thin~s, especially if the quarterback 1s callmg an audible. 
''I'm looking forward to this ~arne more than my first game at Mich1gan, because you get to play in front of your friends and classmates." explains the· Cincinnati Moeller High School pro­duct. 
Ferguson is excited at the prospect of finally donning his green jersey, but he won't get really pumped up until he 
[continued on page 14] 
-
.::-... 
-----------------------------------~-~----------------------------------------------­
The Irish Extra Friday, September 28, 1979 -page 12 
Versatile Waymer leads defense 



talented, or dedicated, humble . . . They all fit. But lets not get goopy. Waymer doesn't like that. 
"Those things aren't important " he says. "All I try to do is use the talent I've been blessed with to the best of my ability. Personal accom­plishments and glory are secondary to team success." . 
Since his arrival at Notre Dame in I976, Waymer had enjoyed plenty of both. He was an integral part of the 1977 National Championship team, catching 10 passes for 164 yards, including three for 38 yards against Texas in the 1978 Cotton Bowl. This year he topped everyone's pre-season list ofprobably All-Americans and was one of 22 players to ~et his picture in Playboy Magazine (w1th his clothes on, of course,) as a member of their 1979 gridiron honor roll. 
In the first rwo games, Waymer has played well enough to make Hugh Hefner sorry he dido' t feature number 34 in a centerfold. In the Irish season-ol?ener against Michigan, the senior tn-captain intercepted a B.J. Dickey pass to halt a third quarter Michigan drive. Late in the second half against Purdue, he snagged his second steal in as many games, and a Chuck Male field goal resulted. 
But so did a very sore knee. Four plays before his interception, when Purdue's WallyJones took the handoff and streaked around right end, Waymer came up from his left cornerback spot to help out. As he was rolling off the pile, Waymer was speared on the inside of his left knee by a Purdue helmet, but, even though there was a Purdue player inside it, no late hit was called. 
"I think it was a little late," Waymer reasons, rubbing his sore knee as he remembers the play. "It happened after tl-te whistle had blown and I was already ~etting up off the pile." He stayed tn the game until early in the third quarter when the knee stiffened and the pain became severe. Whether he wilf play tomor­
,r r 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 
''Ijust want to do the best I can ... for myselfand my teammates." 
DaveWaymer 
. . . played in nine games on defense and five on offense his freshman year ... intercepted a pass against Northwestern in 1976 then threw one for 33 yards to Dan Kelleher just rwo weeks later against Oregon . 
. . . started at flanker as a sophomore and was on the receiving end of Notre Dame's longest pass completion of the season --a 68-yard touchdown grab against Georgia Tech. 
~ ..started all II games at left cornerback as a junior ... tied fot the team lead in intercep­tions with three . . . led all Irish punt returners with 25 returns for 175 yards. 
Versatile is a good word to describe Dave Waymer. Of course, so is row against Michigan State is still a question. 
"It's up to the coaches and trainers, of course," he concedes. "But I'll tell you, I hate just watching." 
After practice and team meetings, he gets a chance to relax in his room as Marvin Gaye plays on the stereo. A jazz buff, Waymer enjoys such artists as Sarah Vaughn ("She's great.") and Joe Sample. He takes this opportunity to talk about things be­sides football. ­
"Well, I really don't have time for much more than football," he sighs. "After practice and meetings, I don't 
· feel like doing anything else. I try to get in a little studying, maybe some reading--but no more meetings!'' 
An avid reader ("My_ mother was a librarian so I started young."), Waymer enjoys contemporary best sellers. He singles out The Thornbirds as one of his· recent favorites. 
''I thought it was one of the best books I had ever read," he says. 
Which is a high compliment from someone who rarely speaks in super­latives. In fact, when it comes· to talking about himself, Waymer is remarkably modest. 
"I just try to do the best I can, he admits. "Whatever the team needs me for, that's what I'll do." 
His past record is evidence of that, for Dave Waymer has etched his name under just about every heading in the Notre Dame record book. In fact, just about the only thing he hasn't done is kick a field goal. (But with nine games left, who knows?). 
Brammer, Byrd pose double trouble 
The author, Dave Janssen, is sports editor of The State News, student newspaper at Michigan Stale Univer­sity. This column appearedfollowing State's win over Miami [OhioJ last weekend. 
by Dave Janssen 
You can choose any adjectives you'd like to describe MSU's 24-21 win over Miami of Ohio Saturday. Trying to perceive that the Spartans did, in fact, win, still may be the hardest assign­ment that came out of the contest. 
But despite apparent repeated at­tempts to give the game away, the Spartans notched a win and we are told that the score and the quality of MSU' s play no longer matters --at least not until next Saturday. 
And what have been familiar sound­ing post-game words from the mouth of Darryl Rogers, are becoming more and more familiar --"Any win's a good win, we'll accept them all," or something along those lines. 
Mark Brammer, whose fourth-quar­ter performance helped save the Spartans lOth consecutive victory, stood holding a towel around his waist, talking to a group of reporters in the locker room after the game. The 6-4, 236-pound All-American tight end told how he thought a game like Saturday's might be good for the team to experience, noting that he felt fortun­
r ate not to be among the losers on that day.
r Meanwhile, a few yards away,
r 
unattended, sat Eugene Byrd, whos.: fourth-down reception has to be con­sidered equally important to the outcome of the game as Brammer's clutch final-quarter catches. Byrd, as far from reporters as he wishes he was from defensive backs each time he goes out for a pass, would soon relay his feelings about the game. 
To put it mildly, Byrd's thoughts about the win were quite different offered by the[layers. "That's the best one," Byr reported. "To come back like that when everything looked so bleak, that's just got to be the best one yet." 
Byrd admitted that he has never been as tense about a game near Its 

end as he was Saturday. Yet, the 
all-Big Ten wide receiver had no 
doubts that he was going to make that 
fourth down catch with less than rwo 
minutes left. That would keep alive 
h!s team's glimmering hopes for a 
VICtory. 
"I was just hopin' I would get the first down,'' he said. 
He made it, and with 16 yards to spare. It was a big catch, but then all of them are for Byrd, who is now just 18 catches away from tying Curt Gibson's career record of 112 catches. Brammer is only three behind Byrd's total at 91, after making five grabs against Miami ofOhio. Both Byrd and Brammer are only a big day's work away from the second spot on. the list held by Gene Washington, who had 102 receptions in the 64-66 seasons. 
The slender Byrd, whose number 84, like the 91 wore by Brammer, is becoming increasingly _popular. At 
Spartan Stadium, beheves he will reach the top of the receiving list this fall. "I think I'm about where I was last year," said Byrd, who, with ten catches, is indeed, exactly where he was a year ago. 
But Byr~ doesn't waste much time thinking or talking about records unless they affect his team as a whole. He, like everybody else, is concerned with the play of the MSU team, which looked somewhat less than the caliber of a Big Ten title contender Saturday. "Right now we're 3-0, but we've got to play better football," offered Byrd. ''The bulk of our schedule is coming up and we've got to be sharp." 
It was at this time last season when Byrd started to become a bit more noticeable in the MSU offense. Against the University of Notre Dame last fall, Byrd caught seven Eddie Smith passes for 124 yards and one touchdown. 
Now we approach the fourth week­end of the football season and again -­Michigan State vs. Notre Dame. "I feel like my good ~arne is on the way," Byrd predicted. 'I mean like getting seven or eight catches. It's time for me to have that good game, and there's no one better than the one comin' up.'' 
It's certain the rest of the Spartans believe it's time for them to have a good game too. When it comes to Notre Dame, we all know what happens to teams that are not sharp in games that are not well tucked away. 
Rally tonight 
The first big rally of the home season will be held tonight at 7 pm in Stepan Center. Coach Dan Devme, the cap­tains, the Notre Dame Marching Band, and the cheerleaders will all be on hand to lead the "Beat Michigan State" cheer. The band will step off from Washington Hall at 6:45pm. 
r 
---~­
---------------------~-~ 
-----------· 
Th~,Irish Extra Friday, September 28, 1979 .: pa~ 13' 
Irish recall 'Game ofthe Century' 
Without its starting signal-caller, Notre Dame rallied to tie one of college football's most memorable games 
The author, Tim Bourret, is a former Observer sports columnist. Also a past commissioner of Notre Dame's Bookstore Basketball tournament, Bourret is currently assistant director ofsports information at Clemson. 
by Tim Bourret 
Although there have been countless exciting games in the Notre Dame­Michigan State series, one contest stands out as the game most remem­bered. ''The Game of the Century'' was the billing ABC gave its viewers on promos run the week prior to the Nov. 19, 1966, contest. The reason for the interest was simple. No. 1-ranked Notre Dame was facing No. 4-rahked Michigan State in what was called a college "Super BowL" 
It IS a rarity when two teams can ~ play in one game to decide the college national title. But in '66, Notre Dame and Michigan State were so much better than the other_ top-rated teams, that the pollsters could have stopped the selection process after picking No. 
2. No one else cared about the rest of the bunch. 
The game took on added meaning because neither. teap;1 was going to a post-season bowL Pnor to 1969, Notre Dame held a policy against playing in post-season bowls because of the University's semester schedule (in those day the first semester ended in January.). Michigan State could not go to the Rose Bowl because they had panicipated in one the season before. According to Big Ten rules, a team could not go to the Pasadena Extrava­ganza two years in a row. As a result, a winner-take-all situation existed. 
The interest was beyond compre­hension. "I never dreamed that many papers, radio stations and TV stations existed," said Terry Hanratty, Notre ~ Dame's sophomore quanerback that season. ''Everyone wanted to watch practices and have interviews, but we had to keep everyone out. The coaches went to extremes to work on the 

Azzaro ... hit one, missed one 

~?· 
0 'Brien ... the diminutive diabetic 
preparation, and they took every security measure. We even stationed a manager on the 13th floor of the Memorial Library, a perfect vantage point to view our practices." 
Although security was tight, writers still got their stories. "All th.e publicity really got the students exci­ted," continued Hanratty, the former Pittsburgh Steelef who is now one of the well-known personalities in Lite Beer commercials. "The campus was chaotic the entire week. The students held dorm rallies every night and a giant pep rally in the Old Fieldhouse at the end of the ·week. This was unprecedented for any away game." 
The media attention was nationaL The contest attracted 720 media · representatives, which is still believed to be a media attendance record for an NCAA sponing event. 
The entire country ma:de its weekend plans around the game. In Boston, one Catholic church postponed confes­sion until after the game. At the same time a priest in another part of the East held confession, but had a youngster come to confession every half hour to give him a report. According to legend, the youngster's second ~ confessiOn went something like, "I have done nothing since my last confession, and neither has Notre Dame.'' 
'I have done nothing since my last confession, and neither has Notre Dame' 
Notre Dame fans might not have believed that the Lord was on its side early in the game. By the end of the first quarter, the Irish had lost three top players --quarterback Hanratty, center George Goeddeke and running back Rocky Bleier. All three players went on to long pro careers; Bleier's is still active. And Notre Dame had already lost All-American running back Nick Eddy on the trip up. Yes, the trip up. Eddy slipped when deboarding the train in East Lansing and bruised his shoulder to the extent that he was unable to play in the biggest game of his life. 
Michigan State took advantage of these events, and vaulted to a 10-0 lead by the middle of the second period. Regis Cavender, a bullish halfback, scored on a shon run, and bare-footed Dick Kenney connected on a 47-yard field goal to give the Spanans a fairly comfortable cushion. 
But, following t~e tradition of Notre Dame football dattng back to George Gipp, the Irish disregarded the odds and made a gutty comeback. The catalyst of thts resurgence was a diminutive diabetic named Coley O'Brien, a player with a name befit­ting a Notre Dame hero. 
The Washington, D.C., native, who gave Hanratty all he could handle in the fight for the starting quarterback job in the preseason, guided the Irish to 10 points to tie the game. The nifty signal-caller, who had to fight the problems of diabetes in addition to Michigan State All-Americans Bubba Smith and George Webster, completed a 34-yard pass to Bob Gladieux, Eddy's replacement, and led the Irish on the game-tying drive that resulted inJoe Azzaro's field goal. Not bad for someone who had to gulp down candy bars between series to keep his strength. 
After Notre Dame booted that tying field goal on the first play of the final period, the defenses dominated the action. Neither team registered a strong drive, and the Irish had the only real chance to win. Tom Schoen, who had played quarterback the~ year before against the Spanans, inter­cepted a pass and returned it to the State 18. But three Notre Dame rushing plays lost six yards, and 

A first-quartf!r injury forced Terry Hanrattv to watch from the sidelines (or the 
remainder ofthe game. Despite Hanratty's injury, the Irish came from ten points down to tie Michigan State in the 1966 thriller. 
Azzaro's 41-yard field goal attempt missed by inches. 
Notre Dame got the ball for one last time on its own 30, with 1:24 to play. Instead of risking a turnover that Kenn«y, the finest kicker in the country, could turn into a deciding field goal, Irish coach Ara Parsegian commanded his forces to run out the clock. 
''The Game of the Century ended in a tie, causing the media to go wild. "How could Ara run out the clock?" was the cry of the scribes. Noted columnist Jim Murray might have documente . the feeling of most of the writers when he penned, "Rockne's pep talk was 'Figh$ Fight! Fight!' Not 'Tte! Tie! Tie!' The Gipper never would have settled for a draw. 
Parseghian explained himself after the game, and although his statements were logical, ("I wasn't about to blow the game with an interception that we could not have overcome."), it was not until the following Saturday the people really understood why Parseghtan played cautiously, if not sensibly. 
In the season finale, Notre Dame played Southern California in the Los Angeles Colis~um. Michi~an.State sat home and waited, as thetr mne-game schedule had ended. The contest on the West Coast w.as not close, as the Irish ran away from the Trojans, 51-0, the most lopsided defeat in the history of that senes. O'Brien continued his heroics in that contest, completing 21 passes for over 300 yards and three scores. It was an impressive win over the lOth-ranked and Rose Bowl-bound Trojans. 
The following Monday, the writers (AP) and the coaches (UPI) both voted Notre Dame No. 1 and Michigan State No. 2. Parseghian had indeed made the right decision in East Lansing the previous Saturday, for he enjoyed his Christmas holidays wearing a National Championship ring. 


..u...,,. "'tl4•r .,., ..., .........,. '•• ~" • • 
The Irish Extra Friday, September 28, 1979 -page 14 
Devine sees another testIrish -Spartans _frotn o_ffense-rninded MSU 
Chicago (AP) -Dan Devine sends his But Devine conceded, ''Oh, wei 
Dete: Site: Time: Rldlo: Television: Serlea: Last Meeting: Consecutive: Ranklngs: 
September 29, 1979 Notre Dame Stadium (59,075) 
1:30 p.m. EST Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network, AI Wester and Pat Sheridan WNDU-TV, Ch. 16 (local only), Tom Dennin and Jaff Jeffers Notre Dame 27, Michigan State 16, one tie October 7. 1978--Notre Dame 29, Michigan Statfl 25 Notre Dame, 3 straight, 1976-78 Michigan State 7th. Notre Dame 15th (Assoc1a'ed Press) 

Dan Devine HeadCoac.h 38-11-0 (.5th year) 
~ 

~ 
pos. · PlAYER HT. WT. CL. POS. f[ Dean Mas11ak 6-4 220 So. TE ll Rob Martinovich 6-5 260 Sr. LT LG .lohn Leon 6-2 240 Sr . LG c .John Scully 6-4 245 Sr. c RG Larry Hufford 6-3 236 Sr. RG RT .Tim Foley 65 265 Sr. RT SE Tony Hunter 6-5 210 Fr. SE 08 Mike Courey 6-2 195 Jr. OB HB Vagas Ferguson 6-1 194 Sr. TB FB Tony Belden 6-3 211 So. FB FL Pete Holohan 6-4 215 Jr. 
FL 
p
p Dick Boushka 6-4 190 Jr. PK Chuck Male 5-11 180 Sr. 
PK 
DEFENSE 
LE John Hankerd 6-4 241 Jr. OLB LT Scott Zettek 6-5 235 Jr. LT RT Don Kldd 6-3 236 Jr. MG RE' Joe Gramke 6-4 234 So. RT LLB Mike Whittington 6-2 219 Sr. OLB MLB Bob Crable 6-3 220 So. IILB RLB Bobby Leopold 6-2 217 Sr. ILB LCB Dave Duerson 6-2 187 Fr. 'LCB RCB John Krlmm 6-1 183 So. RCB ss Steve Cichy 6-3 215 So. ss FS Tom Gibbons 6-1 185 Jr. ws 
Darryl Rogers Head Coach 22-12-2 (5th year) 
OFFENSE PlAYER 
HT. WT. CL
Mark Brammer 6-4 238 Sr 
An?elo Fields 6-6 295 Sr
Jet Wlska 
6-3 230 So
Matt ~oster 
6-3 227 Sr
Rod Strata 6-2 235 JrRegis McQuaide 6-6 
251 Sr
Samson Howard 5-8 170 So Bert Vautn 6-4 212 SoSteve Sm th 
5-9 182 Jr
Lonnie Mlddletor 
6-1 225 Sr
Eugene Byrd 6-0 184 Sr
Ray Stachowicz 6-1 189 JrMorten Anderso 
6-1 189 So 
. 
DEFENSE Larry Savage 
6-3 220 Sr 
Tanya Webb 6-7 242 Jr Beranrd Hay 6-3 234 Jr Pat Mitten 
6-5 238 Fr 
John McCormick Jr
6-2 212 Dan Bass 
6-1 217 Sr 
Steve Otis 6-3 210 Sr 
Van Williams 176 So
5-9 
Jim Burroughs 6-1 184 Jr Alan Davis 
6-1 183 Jr 
Mark Anderson 6-2 192 Sr 
Mark Perry, Editor Paul Mullaney, Layout Special assistance, Tim Bourret and John Smith Photograph~-Dorig Christian and Dave Rumbach 
Notre Dame troops against still anoth­
er Big Ten contender tomorrow, but he 
refuses to put Michigan State's se­
venth-ranked Spartans "on the spot." 
''After we beat Michigan State last 
year I said they were possibly the best 
tn the Big Ten and they dtdn't lose 
another game," Devine told Chicago 
Football Writers Tuesday in a tele­
phone interview. 
"But I can't say that before a game, 
I don't want to put them on the spot. 
From the films we have seen they are 
in the same category as Michigan and 
Purdue." 
The Irish opened the season with a 
12-10 upset at Michigan and because 
of that were favored at Purdue where 
they lost 28-22 last Saturday after 
leadin~ 20-7. 
"Mtchigan State has a!! the qualities 
to be Big Ten Champions again," said 
Devine. "They are as strong as last 
year,· but in different areas. Bert 
Vaughn will be as good~ Ed Smith 
but he is not Smith yet. Maybe he will 
be Saturday, I dont know. 
"We're glad to be horne but we 
can't use playing on the road as any 
excuse," said Devine. "Kids today 
are worldly and playing away from 
horne doesn't bother them that 
much.'' 
Devine used three quarterbacks against Purdue but the Irish expect to be without the services of Rusty Lisch who has a sprained ankle. He also expects to start a freshman defensive back in place of Dave W ayrner which reminded Devine of an "astute obser­vation by (Knute) Rockne. 'You lose one ~arne for every freshman you start. " 
The Irish used a fake field goal to score a touchdown against Purdue with Greg Knafelc throwing a pass to Dean Masztak. 
"We probably won't be able to use that one for another 10 years," said Devine, who chuckled and added, "that reminds me of what Frank Leahy once said. He said, 'Lads, if we have to rely on trickery, we may as well not 1 play.' He meant if you have to resort to trickery you can't win the bigones:• might have a few tricks up our sleeve : for Michigan State.'' 
Spartan Coach Daryl Rogers, in another telephone interview, wasn't worried about tricks what with Hallo­ween still a month away. His concern was running back Vagas Ferguson and Notre Dame personnel in general. 
"When you play Notre Dame, you play a good football team. They always have good personnel. They had a great win over Michigan and they lost to Purdue. If they played them over again, it could be the other way around. 
''Notre Dame has the ability to do what it wants to do," said Rogers, "but I think they'll give the ball to Ferguson. He's one of the premier running backs in the country.
=============== 
, ' Home 
[continued from page 11) 
runs through the tunnel. 
"You can't really think about it before." he says. "It's more during the co~rse of the game. The student body plays a very important role in our 
'success, but it all depends on the game. You have to take it from there. 
"I don't listen to the crowd, but when you're the visiting team, and you commit a turnover or something, you can feel the difference in the tempo o the game." 
Even though Ferguson and company will now have the crowd on their side, 
the All-America candidate will still be pretty much oblivious to the people in the stands. 
"The whole time we're out there, we're thinking about what we're supposed to be doing," he says. "If the game is close, or sometimes at the very beginning you notice, but other than that, you block 'ern out." 
Sometimes, though nobody can put things into perspective like a coach -­"It's great to be horne," says Dan 
Devine. 
Observer scribes take another look into cr_ystal_football 
~ 
t 
I 
t 
t 
Auburn ~ at Tennessee I 
~ Mlchl~en 
at Cel fornla 
~ ~ 
Colorado ~ at Indiana ~ ~ N1~ 
-at lllnols 
~ 
~ 
Iowa Stitt at Iowa
t 
Merytand
~ 
at Kentucky
I 
Southern Celt at Loualene Still 
~ 
Nortweallm at Mlnneaote 
I 
TIXIS at Mlaaourl 
"'enn Stile Nebmkl' 
-lo Stitt ICLA 
~ 
~In Stell ~ Deme 

Merk Perry Sports Editor 27-7, .794 
Tennessee by3 
Michigan by 14 
Indiana by4 
Nat
by 
Iowa State by6 
Maryland by3 
Southern Cal by 10 
Minnesota by 17 
Missouri by2 
Nebraska by3 
UCLA by7 
Notre Dame 
by6 
1. '!tlrh'l¥. -~·-···£%it~ 



Beth Huffman I Michael Ortman Paul Stauder 
Women's Sports Editbr Sports Writer WSN DSports Dlrecto 24-10 .705 . 
26-8, .765 24-10, .705 
Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Auburn Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee 
by13 by3 by7 by7 by7 by2 by4 
Michigan 
Michigan
Mjchi3an Michi9an Michigan Michigan Mlchi8an
by by 
by3 
by13 
by 10 by10 by 
Indiana Colorado Indiana 
Indiana 
Indiana Indiana Indiana 
by7 by6 by3 
by4 
by6 by4 by8 
Illinois 
Navy 
Navy 
Illinois IllinoisNa1 Na1
by 1 
by3 by 
by 14 
.bY by12
by5 
Iowa State Iowa Iowa State 
Iowa 
Iowa 
Iowa by6 
Iowa State 
by3by6 
by10 
by6 
by 11
by3 
Maryland KentuckyMaryland 
Maryland 
Maryland Maryland Maryland
by3 
by 1
by7 
by 2 
by12 by9 
by 14 
Southern Cal Southern CalSouthern Cal 
Southern Cal 
Southern Cal 
Southern Cal by 8 
SoQthern Cal by 10
by14 
by 18 
by17 
ty12 
by17 
Minnesota MinnesotaMinnesota Minnesota
Minnesota 
Minnesota by21 
Minnesota 
by 10
by9 
by 11
by24 
by25by4 
Missouri 
Texas
Missouri Missouri
Missouri 
Missouri by4 
Texas 
by7by3 by3
by6 
by7by9 
Nebraska Nebraska Nebraska Nebraska 
Penn State by 11 
Penn State 
Nebraska 
by7 by8 by3 by3
by3 
by7 
UCLA 
UCLA 
UClA
Ohio State Ohio State UCLA 
UCLA by3 
by3 
by8 
by6 by6by6 by4 
Notre DameNotre Dame 
Michigan State 
Notre Dame 
Notre Dame by6 
Notre Dame Notre Dame 
by8by5 
by3 
by7 by3by3 
~
..,_ . ' . .._ .... ~ ,:..t .._ 

------------~­
-........-. 
The Observer IFri~y, set>tertlber 28, 1979 --qage, 1 

CASTILLO 
LIGHT 
RUM 
Quart 
BLACK QUART
•1264 
THE KING'S BEER VALUES: 
SAME PRICES WARM OR COLD 
:BRAND ~ :~ Stn.•'• 6.79
' '--..-·-----------~---------------· 5 59 
H-1 -------------------------------·-· 
______________________________t6.69
----~·--·-------------------------------·6.~ 
Black. l.ahl,_________________ -------------·4.99 
'Blllwlilll' ----------..-------------------··6.79 
.. OW Strle. -----------~-----------------6.29 ..· Solllllz ----··---------------------------·5.99 ·., llcll.lllleg. or Light.•••••••••••••••~••••••••••••• 7.49 
HIIMII ·------------------------------· 14.75 
. · Llw111llr1u lit• ()(~--------------------------· 9.59 Oly_llpil --·---------------------------·6.69 111111"1 Lite .................................. 6.99 
·Falstaff --_ --_ _ wLoosE c~Nr. · ___ 4.99 
"~~--------------~----------------·5.~
\11111111 .;,~-------------------·---------·· 5.59 
Fox Deluxe ··-··-----------------~FTuaN~aLes 3.99 ' Braullllster.•••••••,muRN~BLE Wl2 oz. aomes 3.99 
We'll Got Kegs-and chilled Wine tH! 
L___--------~--------~----·­
ASTI SPUMANTE KESSLER 
7SOML 
BLENDED·. 
WHISKEY 
Quart 
19. 
SICHEL 
BLUE NUN 
LIEBFRAUIILCH 
23 Oz. 
SPIRITS '· 
SUPERMARKETs 
-._. 
DIXIEWA Y NORTH (ROSELAND)
-----'­
200 NORTH MAIN ST (ELKHART) 
PLUS 4 CONVENIENCE STORES: 
• 1725 K. IIOKWOCN!  • P  l N•n  
.  • 1•21 IISHIWIKA UE. • .., S. ........  
PRICES GOOD THRU  OCT. 2  

All STORES OPEN Mond•r 1/lru Tlluracf•r I-fll' tO~ 
PHONE 272·2522 



,• 
Features 
Friday~ September 28, 1979 -pa~e 
LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 
The Boy Who Hated His ShadoW 
Rev~ R-obert Griffin 
My grandmother told me as a child 
about a boy she knew who had 
trouble with his shadow. I was not 
surprised to hear about him. I knew, 
from reading Peter Pan, that some 
children have such problems: getting 
their shadows snagged on nails, or 
caught in doors or windows. When 
they come home from school, their 
mothers speak reprimands like: 
''Georgianna, what on earth have you 
done with your shadow today. Go 
back and find it, you careless girl, so 
that I can sew it back on again before 
your father sees you." Shadows, to 
my imagination, seemed as detach­
able as mittens, though I had never 
anually loolred at a shadow while it 
was not in usc. What surprised me 
was to learn that my grandmother--a 
Me-thodist in love wtth her Bible--had 
actually known a young fellow, the 
same age as myself, who, disliking 
his shadow, had tried to get rid of it. 
"He decided it was too heavy," my 
grandmother said. "He complained 
that carrying it around made his 
shoulders ache.'' 
"Shadows don't weigh nothing, 
Nana," I objected. "Shadows are 
lighter than dust." 
"Shadows don't weigh nothing on you," Nana said. "Shadows don't weigh nothing on me. But Andrew's shadow laid on him like a winter coat with sand in its pockets. Can you imagine trying to run and play with five pound sacks of sand in your pockets?'' 
"Nana," I said doubtfully, "I don't 
think shadows come with pockets in 
them.'' 
"Andrew's shadow felt to him like 
it had pockets," my grandmother 
said. "You've never seen a person 
who hated his shadow as much as 
Andrew did. He kept beg~ing folks to hold onto his shadow whtle he ran away from it, but nobody could ever help him do that '' 
can I make it more comfortable?" 
"Shadows," the traveller said, "are a darkness that moves ahead of us and trails after us as a companion that depends on light. Sometimes a shadow, loving the sun, depending on the light, wants the light to depend on it; then the shadow races through the day toward evening, ahead of all clocks and schedules.'' 
Andrew looked at his shadow; 
already at noontime, it was beginning 
to take on the deep purple color of 
dusk. "What can I do?" he said. 
''There is a tree,'' the traveller said, ''where every shadow finds the place it came from and the spot it belongs too. Under that tree, for those shadows, it is always noonday, never earlier and never later, for they belong to a day that keeps no clocks except noon., Go to that tree where your shadow must follow. Rest there until you are at peace with all the wearisome darkness you will ever know.'' 
''Can I get there by walking?'' Andrew said. 
"It's as close as the distance the heart can travel,'' the stranger said, ''when love makes its journey home." 
"It's the last tiring distance An­drew had to make with his shadow,'' my grandmother said. • 'After that, it was always a pleasant yoke and a burden that was sweet." 
"Nana," I said perceptively .. "You're telling me stories about God, aren't you "' 
"God's stories are the only ones worth bothering with,'' she said sweetly. 
Nana never thought Peter Pan was worth bothering with. But Peter Pan got along better with shadows than some of the boys my grandmother knew. As a child I founrltt difficult to respect kids who couldn't be boss~s 
..said,. "from a shadow he was too the shadow that belongs to me, how of their own shadow . 
lVhat'S All This, Then? 
"Did you ever try to help him?" I 
asked. 
''He wanted me to,'' she said, 
''but I told him I didn't know nothing 
about shadows. An~ay, I supposed 
that a person's shadow, being given 
to him, was meant to be kept. But I 
could see right off what the trouble 
with that shadow was." 
''Could you see the pockets full of 
sand?" I said. 
''That shadow dido' t need pockets 
to drag on that boy like an anchor. 
What ailed it was that it was too big, 
from head to toe. It was a six foot 
shadow fitted on a four foot boy; it 
properly belonged on a man.'· 
"Maybe he just needed to grow 
into it," I said. 
"Pants is something you can grow 
into, handing them down from bro­
ther to brother," my grandmother 
said. "But a shadow has to be 
measured right, from the beginning. 
Otherwise it is always going to be a 
trouble and a burden." 
I couldn't help feeling sorry for a shadow that was a trouble and a burden. "Nothing wants to hurt you less than a shadow,'' I said. 
Andy went around, my grandmo­ther said, followed by a shadow that was a dozen sizes too big. On the days it was wet, he would walk in the rain, hoping the dampness would shrink hts shadow. On the bright days, he stayed in the sunlight, expecting it would make him tall; but as the lad lengthened, the shadow lengthened, and Andy could never catch up. He swam in the sea, hopin~ to drown his shadow; but each time, It followed him out of the water. At night, he wo•Jld spend time going into dark rooms, then leaving quick­ly, hopin~ his shadow would get trapped mside, but the shadow moved just as rapidly as the boy. 
''Did his shoulders always ache,'' I 
small to carry?"
' 
''Shadows are always bigger than the folks that carry them,'' my grandmother said. "But by the time he was ten, Andrew's shadow seemed to be bigg(l,rthan a church's steeple. By then, nei~hbors were saying: 'Why Andy, ' that's not a boy's shadow, it's a grown up's shadow you've got. If you can find 
who it belongs to. vpu cant • switch 1 shadows back again.'' 
So Andrew went around, asking strangers if they had the shadow belonging to him. They would always answer: "I have a shadow that fits me exactly right, so it cannot belong to you." 
One day, my grandmother said, Andrew came into the village square, asking strange folk for their help, and an old traveller stop\'ed him. 
"What time is tt?" asked the traveller. "It's noontime," said Andrew, looking at the church clock. 
' "Then why does your shadow show that's it's three o'clock?" said the traveller. "I can't really explain what that shadow does," said Andy. "I don't think it really belongs to me." "It certamly does," said the stranger. "There's never a mistake about shadows. I've been to the land where shadows begin, and they're fitted carefully to a creature's size and shape. But yours runs ahead of the sun." "It doesn't fit at all," said An­drew. "Are you sure it's my shadow?" i "It doesn't fit," said the traveller, "because you're casting a three o'clock shadow, and it's only twelve o'clock. lt must feel very distres­sing." ''My shadow makes my shoulders ache," said Andrew. "If it's really 
CINEMA--ON CAMPUS 
The Wizard of Oz At 7:30pm on Mon., Oct. 1. Washington Hall. Made on a very large budget for its time, this blend of musical fantasy and comedy based on the classic children's book follows the dream adventures of Dorothy who, after being knock<·d out by a tornado, makes her way with some bizzare companions to the Emerald City to find the Wizard of Oz. The Wizard turns out to be nothing more than a Kansas conjurer but nevertheless is able to grant the wishes of Dorothy's friends. Stars Judy Garland with an excellent supporting cast: Ray Bolger as the Scarecrow, Jack Haley as the Tin Man, Bert Lahr as the Cowardly Lion, and Margaret Hamilton as the Wicked Witch. This film won 2 Academy Awards in 1939--Best Orig­inal score and best song, "Over the Rainbow." 
Tak.e it all [A Tout Prendre] At ' 7:~0 on Thurs., Oct. 4 in Washington ' Hail. Thisavant-garde film is a sub­
Jective view of a young man's love affair with a beautiful young black model. Directed, written and starr­ing a young Canadian film-maker Claude Jutra, the ptcture was origin­ally shot as a 16-mm venture in 1962. Wnh Englisg subtitles. 
Rollerball At7,9:15, ll:30onWed. and Thurs., Oct. 3 &4. Engineering auditorium. James Caan is the star of the Houston Rollerball team. In a sport desi~ned to take the place of 
war. In thts world of the not-too-dist­ant future, where illness, poverty, hunger and war are no longer, and societf is governed by a conglomer­ate o city-state industries, Cann's rise in popularity in this game designed to demonstrate ''The Futil­ity of the Individual Effort" is seen by the conglomerate execs as under­mi'nin~ the complacency of the wor­ld's cttizens. Also starring John Houseman. 
CINEMA--OFF CAMPUS 
Rich Kids at 7:30 and 9:45 Forum Theatre Stars Trini Alvard, Jeremy Levy and Kathryn Walker. Directed by Robert M.Young. 
Animal House at 7 and 9:30 Forum Theatre An outrageous, raunchy, screwball college comedy taking place in 1962, this film traces the off-the-wall adventures of the "Ani­mal House" fraternity of a small midwest college. Stars John Belushi as Blutarsky, Tim Matheson as Otter, and Stephen Furst as Kent Dorfman. 
Time After Time at Town and Country Theatre A thriller about the young H.G.Wells starring Malcolm McDowell, David Warner and Mary 
Steenburgen. Directed by Nicholas Meyer. 
When a Stranger Calls at the River 
Park Theatre A horror flick about 
"the thing" that baby-sitters fear the 
most. 
It's Not the Size That Counts at 
2,4,6,8,10 University Park It's 
about what you think it's about," 
says the promos and I don't think it's 
about hats. Features Vincent Price. 
The Amityvzlle Horror at 2:15, 4:50, 
7:40, 9:50 University Park II Ayoung 
couple (Margot Kidder and James 
Brolin) move into a new house and 
find that it's inhabited with demons. 
More Amencan Graffiti at 1, 3:05, '5:10, 7:25, 9:50 University Park III 
A terribly unsuccesslul sequel to Am 
erican GraHJtl. 
TELEVISION 
PBS(Channel 34) 
Austin City Limits at 9 pm on Friday, Sept. 28. "The Earl Scruggs Revue" an hour of back-to-the-roots Blue­grass including such classics as · • Orange Blossom Special'' and Earl's 1948 hit, "Foggy Mountain Breakdown.'' 
Miles To Go Before We Sleep at 7 
pm Sat., Sept. 29. Hust and narrator 
Helen Hayes examines the emotional 
andfinancialconsequences of manda­
tory retirement. 
Live From the Met at 8 pm on Sat., 
Sept 29. Verdi's "Otello" opens the 
Metropolitan Opera's 1979-80 sea-
Mark Ferron 
son, with Placido Domingo starring in the title role. Telecast with english subtitles, the o\'era will be conducted by the Met's Dtrector, James Levine. 
Breaking Away at 7:15, 9:40 Forum 
II Delightful film about bicycle 
racing and life. 
The Concord-Airport '79 at 1,3,5, 
7:15, 9:30 Scottsdale Theatre 
George Kennedy heads a new cast 
through the same old air tragedy. At 
least those who have never flown the 
Concord get co see its interior. 
Muppet Movie at 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 
7:30, 9:30 Town and Country 
Kermit, Fozzie Bear, Miss Ptggy, Gonzo and all the others travel across , country to Hollywood to become big 
stars. 
PERFORMANCE--ON CAMPUS 
Recital at 8:15 on Wed. Oct.4. 
Library Auditorium. Pianist Kather­
ine Glaser. 
PERFORMANCES--OFF CAMPUS 
Sonny Rollins on Friday Sept.28. Morris Civic Auditorium. This outstandimg jazz saxophonist per­forms in South Bend. AT VEGETABLE BUDDIES 
Harvey Mandel with Ellen McLi­waine on Fri. and Sat. Sept. 28-9. Jazz/rock suitarist Harvey Mandel appears wtth his new band and special guest blues guitarist Ellen McLiwaine. 
---~---------------~--. 
~ ~ 
Features Friday, SePtember 28, 1979'-pa,ie.l7 ND~SMC Theatre at Washington Hall 
Hamlet Initiates Guest Artist Series 
Shakespeares' Hamlet is the first production of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre Season which has also the distinction of being the first play to be performed in Washington Hall (with the exception of last year's You're A Good Man Charlie Brown produced bv the ND Student Players) since December, 1974. 
Reginald F. BAin, who is directing the drama, said that he discontinued theatrical performances in Washing­ton Hall because of the need for rennovation. Because the University has been unable to obtain sufficient funds to complete rennovations and restoration, Bain decided to go ahead and do Hamlet in Washington Hall. The Saint Mary's Theatre professor remarked that he felt it important to have theatre on the Notre Dame campus. "The Saint Mary's Theatre is very nice--but it is time to do a play here." 
Bain went on to say that although the rennovated lighting facilities are now safe, the system is very limited. 
Hamlet is also a first in that it marks the beginning of the Guest Artist Series. The Guest Artist Series will brio!; visiting professionals to cam­pus to perform in Speech and Drama Department productions. 
Lance Davis, who is a 1969 Notre Dame graduate and a professional actor from New York, will play Hamlet, joining an otherwise all student cast. When asked about the Guest Artist Series, Davis comment· ed that he would have liked the experience of working with profes­sional actors when he was at Notre 
The Centenial Revival of Washington Hall 
Before Washington Hall was built one hundred years ago, two storey building known as Exhibition Hall stood approximately the same site. Exhibition Hall, Notre Dame's music and theatre building burned down in the Great Fire of 1879, which also destroyed the old Administration Building. 
Willoughby J. Edbrooke, the architect who designed LaFortune, Sorin College and the original plans for the present Administration Build­ing, was commissioned to design a 
l 
new theatre and music building. The 
~ ' 
hall was completed in 1881 and was named Washington Hall because Fr.­Edward Sorin's (the founder of Notre Dame) favorite American hero was George Washington. This new fine arts building further defined the central quad at what was then the terminus of Notre Dame Avenue. 
The first performance given at the theatre was Sophocles' Oedipus Ty­rannus, using the original Greek text. 
Washington Hall has undergone numerous rennovations and additions in its one hundred year history. The tower was completed in 1887 and in 1907 the original wooden steps were replaced by concrete steps. Until 1933 the Southern side of the hall had a set of steps up to the second floor. 


It is up that staircase that the Ghost of W ashinton Hall is said to have been seen ridin~ an invisible horse. Two theories extst as to the identity of the spectre. Some say that it is George Gipp, the All-American foot­ball player who supposedly slept on the steps the night before he became ill and died in 1920. Others have it that the ghost is the spirit of a steeple-jack who fell to hts death in 1886 while working on the tower. 
Recent restorations include improvements of the south entrance, lighting facilities and the stage. There are also to make the balcony safer. For the ND/SMC Theatre. opening production of Hamlet, no tickets will be sold for balcony seating. 
Recent renovations do not include the restoration of numerous large murals that were a part of the original interior decor. The walls of the theatre were painted with four mural depicting tagedy, comedy, poetry and music. The ceiling was illustrat­ed with portraits of Shakespeare, Moliere, Dante and Mozart, each corresponding to one of the wall murals, and above the stage was a portrait of George Washington. All of these pictures were covered with dull gray paint in 1956. 
0 
.. 
.. 

Dame. "It is very valuable to give the student actor an idea of professional acting life before they enter that life. Professionals are a good resource to tax, "Davis said, reflecting on his beginnings in theatre. 
Davis sat on the stage steps in Washington Hall dressed in blue jeans and white sneakers and talked about his college days in theatre at Notre Dame. He said that it was good to come back where he was a student actor and to work with Dr. Bain once more. 
Other shows planned by the ND/SMC Theatre include Augustus Goetz's The Heiress. a classic adap­tation of Henry Tames' novel Washington Square. This powerful drama of a woman's efforts to break 
the confini~ structures placedan her by uncaring society and domineeing father will open November 30. 
Also scheduled is Teeth and Smzles by a major new English playwright­ing talent, David Hare. Hare will be on campus during the/erformance of his savage drama an is ex.Pected to be available for a penod of discussion following the perfor­mance. 
The final production, Dylan Thomas' Under Mzlkwood, will be presented at the Bendix Theatre which is located in South Bend's Century Center. This gentle, wanri and humorous story of a day in thelife of Welsh village should be a perfect way to end a diverse and innovative season oftheatre for Notre Dame and .Saint Mary's. 

Into ever.y·~l~fe a little rain . • • 
Editor's Note: The following article 
'expresses the opinion of one _person and does not necessarily reflect the opinion of The Observer. This is a liumorous piece and should no't be interpreted in any other manner. 
OK., folks, I don't like to complain much, but one thing about this place really ticks me off. It's those sprinklers they're always placing so that your bike gets watered, or goes into your first floor window. 
Don't get me wrong, now. I love 
. little rabbits and duckies and all kinds of other Nature stuff.. .I like green grass .. .I even can stand alumni visiting on football weekends (al­though some of them appear pretty unnatural in Notre Dame sweaters with ND hats, socks, shoes, diapers, stadium 'cushions, flasks), but is it necessary to recreate the Flood for the forty days prior to the first home game so that there will be green grass for those who came before us? 
I know we have the place looking nice for TV crews and for parents and for the wealthy alumni (make it look like; the grass ts as green as they like to imagme it was when they were here), but must we commit scores of bicycles to perpetual rust? My poor little bike got all confused when they watered it, thought it was supposed to be prolifigating and presented me with five shiny little unicycles last week. 
How many times have I awaked 
Zute Alors 
stepped outside my dormitory door and been slapped in the face by a ·wash, of cold water? Once too many. How many times have my shoes 
failed to guard my feet from the 
torrents that rush down to the lake? 
Once too many.
How many times some unsuspect­
ing motorist beendriving down the 
road in front of Lewis behind the Ad 
building, windows rolled down, feel­
ing the breeze, when the lawn 
sprinkler comes around to that dread 
47 degrees off the perpendicular and 
drenches the inside of the car? Once 
too many. 
And finally, how many times have 
you been saying good night to that 
special someone, felt terribly wet of a 
sudden and were terribly embarras­
sed until you realized that those 
pumping pistons of ND lawn life had 
done it to you again? Never? Well, 
no matter. 
I'm rather sick and tired of these 
mandatory baths. Parietals are bad 
enough, but I can bathe myself, by 
myself. • 
You know what I've been doing? I 
turn them off. Yup. Why don't you 
do it too. Turn them off. Shut this 
place down. They want us to stop 
drinking· they want to keep us dry ­
alright then! We'll give them dry. ·. 
You may notice that some of the 
spigots have no handles -an old-fash­
ioned radiator key works nicely, as 
does a pair of pliers. 
• Let's do something ·about the 
~~~liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.iii:iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii'bri_iigihitianiiidiiifri.eisiihltiioiaiiiisuiniillyiilmioliiriniliniglili lW'l-off problem -soon. 
~ -~~------------. 

The Observer Friday, September 28, 1979-page'l8 

Koch keys success to organtzatton 
Board begins hearings 
The Student Government Board of Commissioners began hearings last night for fundin~ reqyests from campus organi­zations. Limited to ten minute presentations, the first wave of representatives from various groups presented their cases for financial consideration. 
Due to a limited budget and a large number of.requests, ~he Board is faced with a question 
by janet Rigaux 
Notre Dame is the only college in the nation with an mdepen­dent Big Brothers/Big Sisters program. Last year, BB/BS was the largest volunteer or­ganization on campus. 
The key to the group's success here is organization, accordi.ng to Tim Koch, BB/BS vice president. A constitution was composed last year thanks to the efforts ofJames Dasch bach, then faculty adviser for the group, and Dan. Monroe1 1978­79 BB/BS president, with the cooperation of a few other students. 
The organization boasted 87 
orpriorities. The foremost con­Stdel ation for fund allocation is the number ofstudents that will benefit from the activity. Also the organization's additional revenue sources as well as its ability to Renerate funds are prime considerations. 
Hearing will continue Sunday afternoon, and final evaluations are expected Sunday night. 
puses." 
BB/BS is a one-to-one rela­tionship between a Notre Dame student and a child from the South Bend community who lacks a father or a mother. 
where they receive their orien­tation training. A film will be shown explaining what our group is. Then they will meet with a case worker and get their little brother or sister.'' 
For all of the old big brothers and sisters there is a canoe trip down the St. Joe River Sunday. Everyone interested in going should meet at 11 a.m. at the main circle. "It will be an all day affair and should be lots of fun," according to koch. 
· ... Stadium 
"I broke all personal soft drink sales records at last year's Missouri game when the temp­erature was in the 90's," Hoffman related. She sold 2920 cans of pop. 
75,000 cans ofpop were sold at that game, enough usually for two or three games, according to Winter. The biggest money­maker is hot dogs. On the average, the stands sell 30,000 hot dogs per game. "If we are blowing tht> other team away, or if it is raining, then our sales go up," Winter said. 
Both Hoffman and Winter cited the U.S.C. and Pittsburgh crowds as "big spender~.' ·• 
M.S.U. Michigan and Purdue fans don't spend as much.Rela­tively short drives allow them to supply their own refreshments, according to Winter. 
Although the demand for dogs and drinks may dip for the upcoming M.S.U. game, the press box will be full, according to Valdiserri. "This game is getting so much attention that the main box, radio booth and photo deck will be full," he said. The press box seats about · 
[continued on page 19] 
' ~------------------~---------------~---------, 
~ 
~0(\ •'o; Tickets for the 
~,s .~ 
o-b 0o ~ Pat ffietheny Concert 
• ,.":J. _________,_______________ . 
Nov 9 8 pm Stepan Center 
(>~· & 
·~1 p0 .Pu.!!_.P-t~it!e_~~-~~!. 
Nov 17 8 pm Stepan Center will go on sale THURSDAY Sept 27 at the S.U. Ticket office 
.. 
(l-imit 4 tix per person) 

~~S... ! ~ ! 
I I 
I sponsored by the S.U. Social Commission 1 I 
~----------------------------------~----------

Other Good Things Sunday Beer 
Corner of Grape and Cleveland Across from University Park Mall 
Telephone 277-5300
r------------T------------,
I $1.00 OFF I $1.50 OFF 
I
I On any Large DEEP DISH I MAXIMUS PIZZA 1 
operator sweeps the stand, takes an inventory of his goods, cooks and wraps hot dogs and ices soft drinks before game time. 
When Madlen started as a worker, he usually found time to sneak a glimpse of the Fighting Irish. ''But now that I operate my own stand, I rarely, if ever, get up to see the game," he said. 
Winter, Madlen and Phyliss Hoffman, an eight year opera­tor, all pointed to temperature, crowds and pint margins as the main factors influencing sales. 
student volunteers last year. This year over 300 persons signed UP. at Activities Night. 
"We wtll remain the number one volunteer organization with so many new recruits,'' Koch commented. "Our group is very successful and so we've been invited to the national conference for Big Brothers/ Big Sistets in Kalamazoo, MI, on Oct. 2, 3, and 4 to give talks to other schools explaining how they can go about setting up such a program on their cam­an organized event to help take pressure off the big brothers and sisters. "This way the students don't always have to think of something to do," Koch said. 
The organizational meeting for all new big brothers and sisters will be Wednesday Oct. 10 at 7 
p.m. in• the Architecture audi­torium. "New members will be receiving a flier in the mail soon telling them about this meet­ing," Koch said. "This will be 
''Usually they are from low income families and range in age from 7-17," Koch explain­ed. The student and child develop a friendship and spenci at least one hour a week together. 
''Basically you become that little kid's friend and you grow with him, share feelings, and experience the world with him. Most people find that they spend much more time than just an hour a week with their little brother or sister because it's so much fun and so reward­ing," Koch further explained. 
Once a month the gr<?ul? plans 
[continued from page 1 ] 
coordinates the 28 concession stands in and around the stadi­um. ''There are seven trailers outside the stadium and 21 inside," Winter said. "The university owns and operates the stands--we supply the food and set the prices," he explain­ed. The stand i· •n­tracted to an ope as Madlen. 
Madlen, whose wife, two sons and daughter-in-law also oper­ate their own stands, works from 8:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m. on game days. The veteran 
A cheerleader prepares to belt out anothe~ yell at ~he Pep rally at Dillon Hall last night. [photo by Rzch Dohnng.) 


1 SICILIAN PIZZA 1 Over 5 feet in circumference I 
I One coupon per order One coupon per pizza
I
I Expires Oct 1O, 1979 .1. Expires Oct 10, 1979
L----------·------------­

The Observer Friday, September 28, 1979 -page 19 


With Belgium university Open 10 am 
Faculty to begin exchange program 
Double Bloody mary's Sl 
According to Fr. Don McNeill, 
[continued/rom page 18] 
deadlines and we have equip­the semester in Cuernavaca ped the box with phones sowhich is distinct from the '260 people. writer can call in their copy,Foreign Studies Programs of Requests for press credentials Valdiserri said.
the University directed by Dr. 
started coming in last spring, Originally hailed as one of theParnell, will be offered in but Valdiserri waited until the country's largest press boxes in spring of 1980 as an experiment end of the summer to start 1920, writers still work in the
for a maximum of four sopho­•
considering requests. ''Our original structure. Renovations mores or juniors and will be priority goes to the medium have been done on the insideevaluated by its continuance. It with the highest circulation,'' and the radio booth has been ~ is supervised by the Center for 

~
he said. He carefully examines totally rebuilt.
Experiential Learning in col­
A
each request because ''the Because of new N.C.A.A.
laboration with Notre Dame and 
J
press box is a working place guidelines, the number of peo­Augsburg College. Notre and we must provide an atmos­ple allowed on the sidelines will 
Dame encourages students to ~ 
phere appropriate for people be decreased. ''This will makeparticipate in forms of experi­
~ 
making a living," Valdiserri it easier for trainers, doctors,ential learning to supplement 
~
noted. and photographers to .do theirthe justice education they re­
4
There are no cheers or job freely," Valdiserri ~aid.
ceive in interdisciplinary cours­
~ 
unnecessary noises allowed ines. Students with further the booth. Writers are on [continued on page 6] 
j
questions may call #2788. 
j 
4 
l 
~ 
table wine. fouiUied by Jim Rauner (Notre Dame. class of '64)
IRISH DEW 
located 
on U.S. 31. ift Roselaftd 
Indiana 
White Table Wine 
PRODUCED AND BOTTLED BY RAUNER AND SONS. SOUTH SEND. INDIANA 
•
expertment 
' ' ' Stadium 
House 
approves 
multibillion fiscal budget for 1980 
by Chris Camgan 
In the 1980-81 academic year, notre Dame and Kathokieke Universiteit Leuven in Belgium will begin a faculty exchange program. 
The program will exchange one faculty member from each university for one semester. Although the exchange is uni-
ND offers Cuernavaca 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House yesterday narrowly ap­proved a $548.2 billion 1980 budget, but apparently not in time to resolve deep-seated differences with the Senate over defense spending before the start of the new fiscal year Monday. 
By a 212-206 margin, the House reversed its earlier re­jection ofthe budget, approving a slightly revised spending package recommended by the House Budget Committee. 
Despite yesterday's vote, House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. said House and Senate negotiators will not meet to begin resolving their differences until after the House returns from a week­long recess starting this week­end. the Senate approved a $546.3-billion spending plan last week. 
The lack of a budget at the start of the new fiscal year will not affect the day-to-day opera­tions of the government since Congress can still appropriate money without a budget ceil­
versity-wide, common interests and research strengths will be the bases for the selection of the faculty, according to Dr. David Leege, Director of the Center for the Study of Man in Contermporary society. Leege will choose the faculty partici­pants. 
According to Leege, the idea for the program was conceived here in the 1977 spring semes­ter. At that time, he said, a visiting sociology professor from Leuven first examined the possibilities of such an intellec­tual and cultural exchange. The idea won the approval of Leege and Notre Dame Provost 
If the House ended up with the Senate version, Mitchell said, 
PEP RALLY "we'll be putting the squeeze on those that have al­
16 oz BUSCH 2/JI.OO
most been squeezed to death.'' Rep. James R. Jones of Okla­homa, a conservative Demo­crat, said he also favored the 
Saturday 
Professor Timoth O'Meara. In March, Pieter de Somer, rector 
at Leuven, and Fr. Theodore Hesburgh signed the agree­ment. 
Leuven, located just outside Brussels, has been a leading Catholic university for centu­ries. It is the Dutch-speaking descendant of the Catholic Uni­versity of Louvain, founded in 1425 by Pope Martin V. Today, the University has an enroll­ment of 18,000 students. 
''It was a unique opportunity for two outstanding Catholic schools that shared so much to exchange ideas," Leege con­cluded . 
-rade." 
In a surprise vote last week, 
the House rejected a $548.6 
billion spending package, as 
conservatives upset with the 
overall spending levels joined 
with liberals who wanted more 
money for social pro~rams. 
•The budget commmee then trimmed $384 million from the proposal, added future money for college scholarships and sent it back to the House. 
Friday Afternoon 3 pm-7 pm 
mg. 
The House approved the bud­get despite unanimous Re­publican opposition. A total of 153 Republicans voted against the package. 
Rep. Robert N. Giaimo, D­Conn., Bud~et Committee Chairman, satd the House bud­get-was "fair, balanced and rea­listic" and demonstrated con­gressional spending restraint~ 
The Democratic leadership also won over some dissident liberals who had opposed the earlier proposal. 
Rep. Parren Mitchell, D-Mo., a member of the Congressional Black Caucus, said he was re­versing his earlier opposition because other budget proposals would be more harmful to mi­norities. 
~.:ommittee's budget. he noted that if the House started its re­cess without approving a budg­et, "we'll have nothing to talk (to our constituents) about ex­cept how we raised our sala­
.
nes. " 
However, Republicans said the $384 million in spending cuts included in the revised proposal were only ''cosmetic,'' and they accused the Demo­cratic leadership of a ''cha­


----~-------~-~------------------­
The Observer -Sports Friday, September 28, 1979 -page 20 


TAILGATE PARTY! 
S12.99 
• 
20 Pes. Chicken (spicy or mild) 

• 
1 Pt. Bar-B-O Beans 

• 
1 Pt. Cole Slaw 

• 
6 Rolls with honey 

• 
6 Pudding Desserts 


Offer good Fri., sat., sun. Open 9 a.m. sat. of ND Home Games 
vore~es 
FAMOUS FRIED CHICKEN 1636 N. Ironwood 
western Avenue In the Phoenix Plaza-opening soon. 
COLUMBIA 
STEREO LPS SERIES798 
$4.99 
Cheap Trick Dream Police 
1nclud1ng: Dream Pollee: Way Ot The World Vo•ces/Gonna Ra•se Hell Need Your Love 
UNITED ARTISTS 
EPIC 
STEREO LPS SERIES 898 
$5.99 
PICTURED ITEMS ONLY.• 
The HAMMES Notre Dame Bookstore ,. '· 
In SMC tennis 
Coash etnerges as future star 
by Beth Huffman Women's Sports Editor 
In the past few years Saint Mary's has been building a respectable tennis program. In addition to hosting the state tournament last year, the Belles have been developing some strong young players of their own. A surprise arrival on the scene this year has been fresh­man Patsy Coash. 
Coash, a native of Kalamazoo, 
MI, has compiled • 0 
record thus far this fall. En 
route to obtaining that record, 
she recently took first place in 
the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's 
tennis tournament, and just last 
Saturday upset Aura Jain, a 
nationally-ranked player from 
Purdue. In her seven matches 
this season, Coash has not lost 
a single set. 
How does this petite freshman overpower her ()pponents? ''She commits the least amount of errors," offered Saint Mary's coach Sandy Frey. "There's nothing flashy about her game. She's quick, she moves well, and has style from the base­line." 
Coash got her start in tennis by chance. Her mother came across an article in the local newspaper advertising try-outs for Junior Development tennis. Coash made the team and began her career with Junior Development, traveling the summer circuit and winning several tournaments in her five years on the tour. 
continuing her tennis play at Hackett High School, Coash amassed an impressive prep record, losing just three ume~ in four years. She suffered her first loss in the Michigan state 
finals, and placed second her freshman year. In her second year, she went undefeated and became the state singles cham­pion, and also served as an alternate at the national cham­pionships. She advanced to the semifinals at state her junior year before losing, and placed second her senior year. 
The Holy Cross resident did not limit her athletic talents to just tennis at Hackett, lettering in track and volleyball, and was selected Most Valuable Player on the track team her junior year, when she competed in the state track meet. 
The difficult task of choosing a college faced Coach after grad­uation. "I was offered scholar­ships by Kalamazoo College and Michigan State,'' Coash relates, "but I wanted to go out of town and MSU was just too big. I had heard a lot about Saint Mary's from my sister Julie, who goes here too, and it has such a highly acclaimed academic atmosphere. It was just what I wanted.'' 
"I knew I'd really have tons of studying," she continued, ''and I wasn't sure I could study and play tennis." She passed over her fears and tried out for the team. "I always get nervous when I play, but I felt confident I could make the team." 
She made the team, and in process emerged as Saint Ma­ry's number-one singles player. 
Tennis is a pasttime for two other Coast family members. Brother Matt won the state tournament for 10 and under, but today "just fools around on the court every once in a while. It's nothing serious," according to Coash. 
Her mother, Susan, the major influence on Coash's tennis career, played with her daugh­ter this summer in a mother­daughter tournament sponsor­ed by Equitable Life Insurance, and the pair advanced to the national finals by winning the sectional tournament in Chica­go. While her teammates were battling DePauw earlier this season, Patsy and her mother advanced to the national semi­finals in New York. 
Coash expects to continue her strong play during her rookie season at Saint mary's, despite the "tons of competition" she anticipates facing in the future. 


. Irish 
[continued from page 24) 
cold, grey October Sky. 
But don't try and tell the Notre Dame soccer team that this isn't a big game. Just as big, to them, as any USC or UCLA game will ever be. 
And it's the biggest game in the young history of the sport at ND. It's big because the Irish are trying to establish itself as a soccer power, and the w.ay ~o do that is to beat the btggtes. Indiana, the number-two team in the nation the last two years, and currently ranked first in the Midwest and sixth in the coun­try, is the perfect target for the hungry Irish. 
The Hoosiers bring to Cartier Field one of the stingiest defen­ses among soccer giants in recent years. Allowing only one goal against in five contest to date, the Hoosiers boast an amazing o.20 goals against average, and sport a 4-1 record. And with stalwart goalie John Putna, already the author of four shutouts, in the net, the Irish are going to believe they are shooting a.t a hockey go~!. 
And don't thtnk that by betng deep at one position the Hoo­siers are shallow elsewhere. Even though Indiana lost Hermann Award winner (given to soccer's best player) Angelo DiBernardo and Charlie Fajkus, their career assic;t record holder, it still has a potent offense. Led by All-American candidate Tim Walters, and bolstered by transfers Armando Betancourt and Pat McGauley, the Hoosiers field an extremely quick forward line. Of Indi­ana's 14 goal output, Betan­court has five. · 
The Irish will counter with 
thunderfoot Kevin Lovejoy and 
opportunists Bill Murphy and 
Mtke Mai, who together have 
accounted for 16 goals. The 
Irish are going to have to t~ke 
advantage of every sconng 
~hagce by flooding the Indiana, zone on offense. The Irish have been looking for an aggressive forward since Ed O'Malley broke his leg in the opener, and to be successful against Indiana they'll have to find someone by gametime. Freshman Matt Stolwyk has seen action at wing recently and could be the solution. 
Notre Dame will also need a steady defense to thwart Jodi­ana's kick-and-run offense. Fullback Jim Stein has missed several games to a foot ailment, but is hopeful to start today. _ Tom Crotty, Notre Dame's non­pareil backliner, will be counted on to check Indiana's striker while also intiating the Irish offense. 
And it's going to take a daring performance by Irish goalie Brian Cullather .f Notre Dame is to hold o: Walters and company. 
Last year 1e Irish lost to Indiana in b.oomington, 7-1. But at that time Indiana was number one in the country. The Hoosiers are not as good this year. Notre Dame has proven it can play with the best, as last week's tie with Loyola-Balti­more evidenced. And the Irish are playing at home, before what is hoped to be the largest home crowd ever at Cartier Field. Histo'ry has recorded what home-inspired Notre Dame teams can d?. Just ask the 1977 San Franctsco ream or the '77 USC football team. 
Maybe Irish head coach Rich Hunter could dig up a few green Jerseys. 

The Observer -SportsBoard Friday, September 28, 1979 -page 21 
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Baseball 
W L Pet. GB X·Baltimore 101 55 .647 
East Hoosiers shoot· for longest win streak 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Milwaukee 93 65 .589 9 
W  EAST L  Pet.  J1i  
Pittsburgh Montreal  96 94  63 63  .604 .599  1  
St. Louis  86  72  .544  9V2  
Philadelphia Chicago New York  82 79 59  77 80 99  .516 .497 .373  14 17 36V2  
WEST  
Cincinnati  89  69  .563  
Houston  87  72  .547  2V2  
Los Angeles San Francisco  78 70  81 89  .491 .440  11V2 19V2  
San Diego Atlanta  66 64  92 93  .418 .408  23 24V2  
Boston 89 68 .567 12V2 New York 86 71 .548 15V2 Detroit 84 74 .532 18 Cleveland 79 79 .500 23 Toronto 53 106 .333 49112 


Thursday's games St. Louis 9, Pittsburgh 5 Montreal at Atlanta, 2, ppd., rain San Diego at Cincinnati; ppd., rain San ~rancisco 5, Los Angeles 3 
Today's games New York (Falcone 6-14 and Pacella 0-2) at St. Louis (Bruno 2-2 and Urrea D-0), 2, t-n Chicago (Reuschel 18-11) at Pittsburgh (Bibby 11-4). n Philadelphia (Carlton 17-11) at Montreal (Schatzeder 10-5), n Atlanta (McWilliams 2-2) at Cincinnati (Pastore 5·7), n Houston (Ken Forsch 11-6) at Los Angeles (Hough 6-5), n San Diego (Eichleberger 1-1) at San Francisco (Whitson 7-10), n 
All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS  25  Obese  
Refuse  28  Fur  
to bid  30 Group of  
5 Metrical  Egyptian  
_ stress  deities  
10 Astringent  34  Sacred bird  
14 Sad news  36  Khomeini's  
notice  realm  
15 Farm or  38  Meet  
maid  defiantly  
16 Machete  39  Baptismal  
17 Melodious  receptacle  
Horne  40  In the rig­ 
18 Novelist  ging  
Glasgow  41  "The-that  
19 Bandy words  men do..."  
20 Till the  42  Hence  
end of time  43  Indian  
22 Trail  peasant  
23 Cheerio!  44  Repose  
24 Derisive  45  Actress  
sound  Stevens  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

WEST X-California 87 72 .547 Kansas City 83 76 .522 4 Minnesota 81 78 .509 6 Texas 81 78 .509 6 Chicago 71 86 .452 15 Seattle 66 93 .415 21 Oakland 53 106 .333 34 
Thursday's games Chicago 4, Minnesota 2, 10 Innings Boston 6, Toronto 5 ~ New York 5, Cleveland 2 Milwaukee 7, Seattle 6, 11 innings Texas 4, Oakland 3 
Today's games Baltimore (Palmer 6-6) at Cleveland (Waits 16-13), n Toronto (Edge 3-3) at New York (Tiant 12-8),n Boston (Torrez 15-13) at Detroit (Rozema 4-4), n Seattle (Honeycutt 11-11) at Chicago (Dotson 2-0), n Milwaukee (Caldwell 15-6) at Minnesota 
(Erickson 2-9), n Oakland (McCatty 11-11) (Splittorff 14-15), n California (Ryan 16-13) at 15-14), n 
Interhall 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Badin 14, Lyons 6 Off-campus 12, Farley 9, OT Lewis 12, Walsh 0 
The Daily .Crossword 
© 1979 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. 
at Kansas City Texas (Jenkins 

9/28/79 

47  Pig and  
bull  
50  Ocean  
51  Long, long  
time  
52  Rake  

54 Subtlety 
57 Persons of enduring fame 
62 Witching ­63 Celebes 
buffaloes 64 Eye tunic 65 Spanish 
river 66 Use a rink 67 A Christian 68 Club 69 Apocryphal 
stories 70 -May Oliver 
DOWN 1 Long stick 2 Aid and­3 -die 4 Involuntary 
movement 5 Form a plan 6 Plant with 
heart-shaped leaves 10 Thief 11 Gentle gait 12 -Bator 13 Satirist 
Sahl 21 Siesta 22 Scion 24 Interest 
direction 25 Band in· 
struments 26 Cut short 27 Color 29 Pass in 
great 
numbers 31 Roof areas 32 Revolt 33 Greek 
letter 35 Robbed 37 Consequence 40 Irish 
Island 
46 Land parcel 48 Loops 49 Big-, Cal. 53 Piano 
exercise 54 Guitarist 
Atkins 55 Garment 56 Atmosphere 57 Very black 58 Castle item 

9/21178 / Yof ant. letters ..9 Opposite 63 Weapon 
7 Cash drawer 59  Impatient  
8 Chemistry  60  Spinks  
Nobelist  61  A Teasdale  

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) ­The prospect of Indiana's long­est winmng streak in 12 years­four games-isn't lulling Lee Corso's Hoosiers into overconf­idence. 
They know, Corso says, that despite six straight losses Colo­rado can be a dangerous oppo­net. 
"On physical manpower, this is as fine a team as we've seen since Nebraska last year," said Corso, whose unbeaten Hoos­iers take on the winless Buffa­loes on Saturday. 
"They just haven't been able to put it all together. They play well for awhile, then something will happen. If they work it out, you'll see one of the finest football teams. we'll play -all season.'' 
Colorado is 0-3 this season under new Coach Chuck Fair­banks, who returned to the Big Eight wars after six years as coach of the National Football League. 
In its first two losses, to Oregon and Louisiana State, Colorado was unable to gener­ate any offense. Last week, the Buffs fell underdog Drake 13-9 and were plagued with costly mistakes, mcluding three lost fumbles and 15 penalties. 
Fair banks said afterwards, "It 
looks to me that if we beat anybody it will be an upset. This is as low as we could possibly go in our program.'' 
The Hoosiers 3-0 record has been at the expense of Iowa, backs, Mark Haynes, Tim Rob­Vanderbilt, and Kentucky-who erts, Jesse Johnson and Mike have a current combined record 
Davis. Quarterback Bill Solo­mon also adds a strong running of0-7-so the opposition hasn't 
been all that tough. • threat to the offense, Corso ''With a head coach the cali­
said. 
ber of Chuck Fairbanks, an ''I don't think you can put your outstanding staff and with the finger on one thing that is type of people they recruit at wrong with this team," Fair­
banks said. "We're just not a
Colorado, you have to be aware 
of the possibility of them ex­very good football team at this ploding in your face," said point. There are some good 
Corso. "It's probably a matter athletes on this team, and there 
of new organization. Coach are some with very large short­Fairbanks missed spring pract­comings.'' ice, and it could be they just Indiana is led by quarterback haven't had time to develop as Tim Clifford, ranked third in 
an organization." the natiom in passing and 20th Corso said he is especially in total offense, and tailback wary of Colorado's defensive LonnieJohnson, fifth in all-pur­
pose running. 

Ideal gift 
The Hesburgh Papers: Higher Values in Higher Education 
by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh 
Notre Dame's. president has been in office longer than any other currently active president of a major American university. Here he reveals the private thoughts and behind-the-scene.~ events which have marked his political, religious, and educational involvements. · 
Available now at $12.95 Sook Department 2nd floor The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
TUNES CITY PROMOTIONS PROUDLY PRESENTS 
I
7 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1979' MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS: $5.50 ADVANCE, $6.50 DAY OF SHOW AVAILABLE AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE AND RIVER CITY RECORDS, U.S. 31 NORTH ELKHART: SUSPENDED CHORD, PIERRE MQRAN MALL NILES: THE RECORD JOINT. BELL PLAZA MISHAWAKA: BOOGIE RECORDS, COLLEGE SQUARE AND JUST FOR THE RECORD. 100 CENTER 
') 

The Observer -Sports Friday, September 28, 1979 -page 22 

(continued .from page 24] 
he obviously has the composure you need.'' Notre Dame's defense will have its hands full when the 
. . . MSU 
• Spartans' offense takes the field. The Irish could be without the services of senior tri-captain Dave Waymer -and soph defensive tackle Kevin Griffith, both of whom suffered knee sprains in the Purdue game. When Waymer failed to appear in the second half last week, he became the fourth starter relegated to the side­lines against the Boilermakers. Others who sat out Saturday's assignments were QB Rusty Lisch, guard Tim Huffman, and end Dave Condeni. Freshman Dave Duerson, from Muncie, 
North, who made two outstand­ing defensive plays late in the Purdue game 1s listed as Way­mer's replacement. 
Some questions still surround the Irish quarterback situation and as of late Thursday Devine had not indicated whether Lisch, Tim Koegel, Mike Cour­ey or Greg Knafelc would be his Saturday signal caller. The Irish ground game will again feature the running of the 
tireless Vagas Ferguson who has averaged 30 carries in the first two games. With his 197 yards so far this year, Ferguson IS just 451 yards away from breaking Jerome Heavens re­cord and becoming the all-time leading rusher in Notre Dame history. 
Although Ferguson continues to be Notre Dame's biggest rushing threat, kicker Chuck Male has been the biggest Irish scoring threat. His two field 
Molarity by Michael Mollinelli 


goals in as many attempts a~ainst Purdue last week made h1m six-for-six on the season. That puts him halfway to Dave Reeves' sin~le-season fieldgoal mark of 12 In 1977. 
Again the Irish will have to face a big and talented defense . one which returns seven of its· 11 starters from the 1978 sgu­ad. The Spartan defense 1ds headed by All-Big Ten line­backer Dan Bass and middle quard Bernard Hay. Both contributed with big plays in 
the Spartan's 24-21 victory over Miami(Ohio) last week, with Hay being named defensive player of the week. 
Despite the Spartans experi­enced defense, Rodgers beli­eves the Irish offense will be tough to contain. 
"They're a strong team with many weapons,'' notes Rod­gers. ''On offense the number one threat is Vagas Ferguson working behind a great line. We've got to try to stop Ferguson and control their qu­arterback. Rusty Lisch, and his passing. This is their first game at home. That will help 
~et them up. You can bet on 
it." 
. Devine
Pigeons • • 

... _,..., • ..u ,... 



[continued from page 24] 
Devine said after Thursday's practice. "But today he didn't show any improvement with each day' but today he stayed the same. If I hadto venture a guess, though, Id say Rusty will be quarterback." Which leaves me only slightly disappointed. It's just too bad Devme couldn't have tried his noble experiment when I was a freshman. It would have done a heck of a lost more than a letter from home to cure homesick­
ness. 


Friday Septenfuer 28 
a~s must be received by 5:00p.m.. two days priorThe Obiii'Yir office will accept·· class!f!eds Monday thrOUQh F~iday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
1979 -page 23 
<
' 
-. 
" 
class1f1eds must be pre-pa1d, e1ther in person or through the mail. 
In need or 1or 2GA tix to South Carolina. Please call 8565. 


ad Is run.  '  
Classifieds~ . .. Notices For Rent Mar-Main Pharmacy at .426 N. Michigan For Rent: cashes personal checks for students with Female roommate wanted to sublet an ND/SMC ID. Campus View A8t. $100/month all utilities included. all Kathy 277-2235. Used Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Rd. LIVE FREE during September $77.50~er Niles. 683-2888. mon~h afterwards. Notre Dame Apts. all Jam1e 287-9872. RPM Productions announces the booking of the band for the first time ever in this No more worries about getting ripped-off area for your formals and special occa-SAFE* FURNISHED country house for sions. Call Jim at 277-1891. 2-6 people, ten minutes travel, call 287-7018 or 288-0955. LIBERAL PROTESTANT CHURCHwants to invite you to join us for Church School FOR RENT: 9:30 and worship at 10:45. First christian Campus View Apt. for rent with 3 male Church on the corner of Eddy and students. $100/month all utilities in-Jefferson, one mile south of NO campus. eluded. Call Ken 1758. Rides available: call289-2417 8 A.M. to 4 P.M. Monday thru Friday. For Rent: female roommate needed at N D Apts. Live with 3 other great girls. Call Attention All Logan Vol uoteers 234-7220. In keeping with the spirit of the first home football game, this Saturday, September 29, we will have out annual, once-a-year, fun-filled Tailgate Rec!! WantedHeld outside on the grounds of Logan Center. there will be plenty to eat and drink. Also. get ready for lots of singing WANTED: Observer Features is looking and yelling in order to get psyched up for for former Mexico program students to the ND-Mich. State game. Tailgate Rec collaborate on aguide page to Acalpulco. will be from 9:00 to 11 :00 on Saturday. If you are familiar with the city, please ending early so parents do not get help up call Kathy at the Observer office (7471, in traffic. So be sure to learn the words to 1715, 8661). the ND fight song and come ready to sing 'till your voices goes! Pray for good Please help--l'm in desperate need ofa weather and we'll show all the alumni ride to !;lither Harrisburg, PA. or Laurel, what atailgater is like!! MD. for October break. Willing to share driving and expenses. If you are going Our first dance is..ihis Friday, Sept. 28, that way. please drop me off. Call Sherry from 7:30 to 10:00 in the Logan Center 7915. cafeteria. It will be a "Welcome Back" dance featuring a live band. A guaran-WANTED: Female roommate wanted at teed good time for all who come to dance campus View--$100/ month. 272-6244. the night away! Help is needed to decorate the cafeteria and that will be Roommate needed--2 bedroom house, done on Thursday, Sept. 27 at 7:00, also 709 S. 32nd St. SB. $92.50 per month and at Logan Center. Call Ed at 3479 or half utilities. Call Andrea 289-8176. Walter at 3066 if you have any questions or need any information. Need a part-time job? Phone Callers needed. IBM. Call Gregg Zaffaroni, 237-3747.Lost&Found Colonial Caterers at Century Center needs part-time bartenders. busboys, waitresses. and kitchen personnel. Breakfast and Luncheon help needed most Apply in kitchen across from entrance 4 in rear of Century Center. To whomever removed the purse from the Student Union office: My Robt. Need ride for two to Northern NJ for Pal mer tix are no good anymore, I got a October break. Steve 1432. new diver's license. etc....PLEASE re­turn my glasses. NO QUESTIONS. Wanted for research project: interviews with couples living together unmarried! FOUND: An engraved St. Christopher's Confidentiality assured. Call John 3805. medal. Identify it and it's yours! 277-5261 Need ride to Pittsburgh weekend ofFound: One woman's ring. Call 8921 to Friday, October 5. Will be happy to shareidentity. driving and expenses. Please call Beth at 8098.Lost: Whittenaur watch; gold, blue lettering. Monetary reward. Need a ride to Denver. Colorado over October break. Willing to share expenses.~ost: Class ring (80). Initials MBH pinkie If you have the room, please call 7915. nng. Please call-was lost last spring. Thanks.7975. LOST: A silver chain with St. Daniel medaL Call 3113. For Sale Lost: Unlined tweed blazer at Goose's For Sale: 2 USC GA's. Best Offer. RobSaturday night. Please calL Kathy 2145. 8858. LOST: Blue bookbag with suede bottom For Sale: Brand new amplifier "Technicsoutside Stepan. If found, please call SA-80" 16W/channel, one week old.Marty at 8403. Original price $190. Offered for $140. Guarantee for 2 years. Contact PierreLost: Gold bracelet twisted chain and 8687.gold circular bar. Friday between 2and 7 pm. Call Becky 5779 --SMC.Lost: A Fly home to New York for Break!!brown leather-like overcoat in the North Students for NY, NJ, and Conn: FlyDining Hall alter the Michigan game last one-way from South Bend to LaGuardiaSaturday. If found, please call 8565. for only $49. Paul1553. Lost: Gold Cross Pen with name engraved Two poor girls desperate to go home earlyThurs. morning. Sentimental value. Re-for Oct Break. Must unload 2 USCward. Call 7854. student tickets. Best offer for either one or the pair. Maureen 5224 (SMC)TO WHOMEVER REMOVED THE Kate 5220 (SMC)PURSE FROM THE STUDENT UNION OFFICE: PLEASE RETURN MY Ihave one GA. ticket to sell for the SouthCHECKBOOK* GLASSES* WALLET• Carolina game. Reasonable price. CallETC.... NO QUESTIONS ASKED!! [THE Cris 4640.ROBT. PALMER TIX ARE A B-DAY PRESENT]PLEASEI! The crate shipment has arrived! Official "Peaches" record crates are now in stockLost: Gold necklace in shape of tennis at all four River City Record locations.racket with. pearl. Reward. Call Cindy Great for books, records, tapes, maga­272-4267. zines, or whatever! Visit RCR. 50970 US 31 North, next to Al's super Market.My Calc. textbook. folder, and 3 Open 1Q-10--7 days a week. 277-4242.notebooks were taken from the South Dining Hall Wednesday morning.Piease For Sale:RETURN!! Very important. Call Kathy at One GA ticket to Georgia Tech. All1822. offers considered. Please call Mary (SMC) 4238..Found: '81 class ring in the Music Building Wed. night. Call John 1695. For Sal~: Kris Kringle Specials from Avon. Lovely gilts at low prices for yourLost: Black calfskin wallet Owner badly dorm-mates. Free catalog and samples.needs IDs. REWARD; NO ?s asked. Call 287-6920 or 233-6581 evenings andChris at 3712. weekends.  For Sale: 1969 Nova-only 55,000 miles. Engine and body In great shape. Must see to believe. Call evenings--Jim 234­2862. . For Sale: 2 American Airlines coupons-­Call Ariane 6804. For Sale: COMICS new and old. DC. Marvel, Warren. Star Trek Movie Ca­lendar. Starlog Space Art book. Discounts 287-6920 evenings and weekends. Tickets . Need one Mich. St. Student or GA ticket. John 3588. Need 2 tix to the U.S.C. game. Call collect in evening (303) 722-9921. '70 Alumnus HAVE TICKETS? Will pay $$$1 or 2 GA any home games. Call 7267. Jackie. Desperately need 1 student or GA ticket to the Michigan St. game. Call Dave at 6939. WANTED: 2 or more tickets, must be grouped together, for any N 0 home football games-Willing to buy at premium price. Call 287-3311. Need Southern Cal tickets. Will pay top dollar. Call Joe after 10. 233-6024. Desperately need 2GA tix to USC game. Will pay absolute top dollar. Call Frank at 3092. Need 3 GA tickets to Georgia Tech. Call 4391. Need MSU tix. Call Jim at 287-4823 alter 6 pm. I need tickets --preferably GA's--for the Mich. St. game. Please help. Call Brien at 3062. Wanted: 2 tickets to South Carolina game. Call collect. 1-802-755-4553. Need 3 GA tickets for Michigan State. Call1803. Need two Georgia Tech tickets-Please­will pay top $$$.Call Ahab at 8857. Need 2USC GA tix. Will pay forty dollars per ticket or beat any other offers. Call Jack 8700. -----------------­Desperately need 8 GA or student tickets to Georgia Tech. Call Eric 1384. Need one USC GA.... a Ia briefly!! Call Don 8762. I will do anything for Student and/or GA tlx to MSU and/or USC-PLEASE! Call Steve 8696 soon!! Need GA tickets to Georgia Tech. Call Joe 8694. Need 2 Mich. State GA tickets. Call Mike 1748. Need 2 GA tickets for MSU.Call Christy 4-1-4783. " Need: One student tix to USC and 2 GA's to NAVY or CLEMSON. Call Don 1384. Need 2 GA tix for Mich. St. Call Jim: 1195. Need 2 GA tix for MSU game. Will pay. Call Herman 233-4972. Need 3 GA tickets to M.S.U. Libby 8082. Defected Bolshoi Ballet dancers want to see American football game!! Don't be a Commie! Sell them two GA tix for Georgia Tech. Call John at 8951. · Want a Date? I have 3sisters"who need 3 tickets to Georgia Tech and 1 usc student or GA. Joe 1205. -----------------­Help me help my grandgarants-sell me 2 GA tix for·Georgia Tee ! Zim-4664. Help!' I need one MSU ticket (GA or student). Call Mary, 6868. Need 2 or 3 tix to MSU game. Linda 4796--SMC. Need 3-4 MSU GA tix. Desperate. Call Kathy (SMC) 4776. Need GA tickets for Southern Cal game. Will pay big bucks. Call Jane 283-8012. Will trade 4 GA's to Georgia Tech for 4 GA's to MSU. Call Jeff 8764. $40 for 2 Mich. St. tickets. Call Mary at 4-1-4708. My brother is dying! His last request Is to see ND-MSU game. Needs only 2 GA tickets. Call Kevin at 1608.  All ~lassif!ed to the 1ssue mwhich the Ned needs 2-4 GA tickets for MSU. Mr. and Mrs. Ned are coming down. Will pay good. 8897. HELP! Without tix, 2 "HTH's" won't come. Need 1 student or GA tix for both MSU &Georgia Tech. Call Rich or Mitch at 6721. Need 1 GA USC ticket!! Call Dan 8387. ATTENTION: Will trade 1 student USC ticket for any 2 badly needed MSU tix. Terms negotiable. Rose 4037 (SMC). I NEED a student or GA ticket for the Georgia Tec~ame. Call Elizabeth at (SMC) 5146. I will pay your price$$$. Let's Get Serious. If you have 4 MSU GA's, then I have the money you want. Call Jeff 8764. Hey People! I only need 1 USC ticket. Call Tom at 3661 anytime. Need 4 GA tlx for any game except Carolina. 3641. In desperate need of three student MSU tix. Willing to negotiate USC, SC tix and cash. Call Bob at 3230. HELP! I desperately need one Michigan State ticket. GA or Student. Call Ed 3649. SEX AND DRUGS Are mentioned to get your attention. Need 2-4 USC GA tix. John 1177. Will lose my virginitv if I can get 2 GA's for Georgia Tech. Ca,l Rob 234-5821. Need any 1 USC ticket. Please help! Greg 1826. MONEY! Will pay for GA tickets to Southern Cal. Needed Desperately! Call Ceci 6620. WANTED 2tickets to any game before November. GA. 3434 or 8897. Desperately need one Student Michigan State ticket Preferably Section 31. Will pay $$$. Call 233-8855. Need 2 MSU tix. Please call 277-0333.$ Need 1 GA ticket for USC. Call Mike at 1384. Two GA tix for Michigan State needed. Call 4-1-5194. Wanted: 6tickets each, Southern Cal and Georgia Tech. CaiiSteve Hamilton. (712) 732-2842 Days. (712) 732-5229 Nights. Desperately need 8 Georgia Tech tix for m¥ parents. Call Dawn--7730. HELP! For Exchange: Will trade 2Southern Cal. tix for 2Georgia Tech GA tix. Call Bill or Dave 272-1208. I urgently and desperately (redundant) need 4 NO-Georgia Tech GA's all together. You will make my family very happy. Call John at 1209. NEED 1to 3 Michigan State Tickets. Call 1895. Need one GA or Student tix to Georgia Tech. Please call Jake 3180. Wanted 2 GA Michigan State tickets. Please call Patty at 6874. WANTED: Any number of GA USC tix. Name your price. Cindy 8055. Wanted: 3 or 4 GA tickets to any home football game. Will pay good money!! 4-1-5195. Need several Michigan State tickets. Please -call 232-7314 anytime!! WANTED: Tickets to [v'lichigan State game. Willing to pay the going price. Call Joe at 287-2793 alter 6:00. Need 2 GAS. Carolina Tix. Call 8565. -Desperately need 1 student tix to Mlch. St. game. Call Monica 4-1-4155:­Senior from last year is homesick for campus. Please help her by selling her a tix to the first home game. Call her sister at 4-1-4161. Need 1ticket for Michigan State (GA or student). Call Ann 277-4976. $$Wanted: 2 GA tix for 2 CSC nuns. Either Navy or South Carolina. Ann 277-4976. Need GA's and student tix to all home games. Call Beth 4-1-5710 or Kate 4-1-5220. Need one ticket to Tenn. Desperately!! Call Mary Ann #4-1-4347. . - 
$$$Need 2-4 GA tix to any home ~e Especially MSU. Call Pat at 1651. · 


Going.home for October break? Sell your USC t1x to 2 SMC ladies. We need 2 GA ti~ and 2Student tix. Willing to pay your pnce. Call 4349 (SMC) Cathy or Leslie. 
Two Californians are coming for the USC gam~. They will have my hide if I don't get tickets for them. Call Susie or Teri at 4825. (SMC) , . 
Not comimg back for Oct. 27 gam'e at the end of break? Sell me your ticket! 1need one GA and as many student tix as you can spare. Will pay $$! Call Megan at 4161 or 4153--SMC. 
N~e~ 'two GA Michigan St. tickets. Willing to trade student USC and /or South Carolina tix or pay big bucks. Call Carlos 1905. 
COUSIN FROM AUSTRALIA WANTS TO SEE FOOTBALL. Prefers to see 
·Southern Cal. Will pay in American dollars. Keep cousin from being bummed Mick 8212. 
Need several GA tickets for Clemson Tennessee games. Call 1771. You name the price, I'll pay if right. 
Need 1 student/GA ticket. Call 1771. 
Need 1 Student or 2 GA tickets for Georgia Tech and/or USC.Will trade tix or pay cash. 277-5261. 
Need GA's to any home games. Call 4-1-5710. 
Need one student ticket for Michigan State--Call Patsy 5710. 
I really Need 3-4 MSU tix. GA. Please call Diane 7906!! 
TICKETS 
I Need You!!! ...to sell me one Michigan State ticket--student or GA. Please call Debbie at 6888. 
Help some seniors. Out parents are finally coming to NO and we need MSU GA tix. Will pay our SR. Bar money. Call Dan or John at 3322. , 
Desperately need 5GA tix to Tennessee!! Call John at 3656. 
Will pay $60 for two adjacent GA USC tickets. Call Mark 1478. 
Help! Desperately need 2-6 GA MSU tickets. Will pay your price. Call Sheila at 7924. 
Need 8 tix for So. Carolina. Call Mark or Mike 289-6543. 
I need two tickets to the Tenn. game. Please call Bill at 8444 now. 
Personals 
ATIENTION ALL BEAUTIFUL & PREPPY FEMALES 
FRIDAY IS JOHN C. GSCHWIND'S 21ST BIRTHDAY. THOSE BEARING GIFTS OF: (1) KISSES (2)HUGS (Y3(0R OTHER STIMULATING GRATI, FICATIONS..... MUST WEAR THERl IZOD SHIRTS, TA" KHAKIS, AND TIPSIDEBS TO BE ADMITIED TO THE FESTIVITIES FRIDAY NIGHT. A GLEAMING WHITE SMILE IS ALSO HELPFUL,BUT NOT MANDATORY. 
This is the way the above personal was suppose to run yesterday, but the typist got too excited just by the sight of John Gschwind's name 

INNSBRUCKERS UNO FREUNDE-Es !libt ein Geburtstagfest am 29.9. Die Adresse ist 802 Miner und das Fest fingt um 20 Uhr an. Wenn??? ruf Brads (119 ) an. Bier und Wein und alles ist kostenlos. Spass vom Fass. 
To the Irish lassies from SMC who like to grope with a goone~, ..wait a minute, That doesn't rhyme.!. 

DOMER'S: Create a green and gold wave. Get your porn poms from the LaCrosse team. Friday at the Pep Rally or Sat. before the game. 
to the old gang from 617 St. Peters, Jannazo. Danny, Ed, Dennis--­Welcome Back! We missed you. 
Love, Budd and Wall 
Mikey, Great to see you're back. How do you 'ike being in Alum? Your Kid Sister 
1 
' 


-

Friday, September 2b. 1979 -naee 2~ 
Face MSU 
Notre Dame opens horne season 
from a 22-6 deficit. since they combined for 13
by Kenny Valdzsem· 
This year Coach Darryl Rod­receptions and 177 yards in last 
Sports Wn"ter 
year's battle at East Lansing.
ger~ ha~ soph_ ~ert Vaughn engmeenng Mtchtgan State s Along with their effective
Notre Dame takes on its third 
sophisticated passing attack as passing game, the Spartans
nationally-ranked Big Ten team 
the Spartans seek to gain a depend on a shuttle system at 
in as many weeks, as the 
post-s~ason. appearance for the the running back slots. The 
seventh-rated Michigan State 
first tune m four years after tailback--fullback combo of
Spartans invade the stadium 
sitting out a three-year NCAA Steve Smith and Lonnie Middl­
tomorrow in the 1979 home 
sanctton. ton will alternate with Bruce
opener for the Fighting Irish. A 
In his first three outings, Reeves or Derick Hughes at
capacity crowd of 59,075 will be 
Vaughn has completed 41 pass­tailback and Andy Schramm at 
on hand for the 1:30 pm EST 
es in 90 attempts for 584 yards fullback. 
kickoff. 
and four touchdowns. Smith tops the Spartan rush­
Playing away from East Lans­
"Vaughn is an excellent passer ing list with an impressive 308ing for the first time this yur, 
who can pick apart a pass yards in 53 carries and a 5. 8 Darryl Rodgers' Spartan team defense," says Jim Johnson, yard average--while fellow tail­
is 3-0, havmg downed Illinois Notre Dame's defensive back­backs Hughes and Reeves haveOregon State. and Miami 
field coach. "He shows a lot of added 196 and 64 yards respect­
(Ohio). The Spartans are riding 
poise under pressure, especial­ively.
high on a ten-game winning 
ly for someone who dido' t have "Michigan State's offense
streak, their last defeat coming 
a great deal of playing time last seems to have improved its 
at the hands of the Irish last 
year." efficiency every game,'' Irish season. 
But Vaughn isn't the sole coach Dan Devine notes, "part­
In last year's 29-25 victory, 
reason the Spartans boast an icularly as Vaughn gains exper­
Notre Dame held off thr--strong 
effective passing game. Even ience. He seems to be the key
passing arm of theSpartan's top 
though they lost all-time lead­to their success because they 
career passer Ed Smith, who 
ing receiver Kirk Gibson to have plenty of depth and ability 
completed 27 passes in 41
MSU mzddle guard Bernard Hay [93] should be an imposing graduation, the Spartans have at the running vack and pass
attempts for 306 yards to bring
sight for Insh__ru_nning backs on Saturday. an excellent pair of experienced receivin~ positions. Even
MiehiiaA ~tat@ .r:gariJ;JQ back 
receivers in All-American tight when Mtami took the lead last end Mark Brammer(? catches, Saturday, Vaughn led them 54 83 yards and 1 TD) and flanker yards for the winning touch­Eugene Byrd(10 catches, 195 down in less than a minute. So
Devine puts stop to muscial QBs 
yards and 1 TD). The duo is no 
[continued on page 22]
strange':" to Irish defenders, 
I'm from suburban Chicago (I didn't bother with "suburban" until Jane Byrne was elected), 
Irish battle Hoosiers toda_y
and I feel right at home. CraigThe rest of the Notre Dame student body may 
be dizzy after seeing Dan Devine play musical 
Chval followinK win over Albion 
quarterbacks Saturday in Ross-Ade Stadium, S,.,. Wrim but I've been watching Phantom Phipps,. by Paul Partridge the Irish soccer team remained Invisible Vince and Slo-Mo Bob and their substitution was done on a play-to-play basis, Sports Writer at home, resting up for today's Chicago Bear three-ring circus for almost three not enabling either player to know m advance match against nattonal power­years now. when he'd be in the game. In what was for the most part a house Indiana. 
Fortunately, we won't have to put up with Devine, however, claimed that all three tune-up for the Indiana Game, For the die-hard Irish fan, it's alternating quarterb.acks any longer, or at least quarterbacks --Koegel, Courey and Greg the Notre Dame soccer team not Notre Dame versus USC not until Sunday, when the Bears-play again. Knafelc --came up wtth their best plays when defeated Albion College yester-before a throng of 60,000 and For that, you have the word of Dan Devine they first entered the game, and thacKoegel day, 3-1. millions more on TV. It's not himself. threw a crucial interception after he had been in Three goals by freshman-Jay Notre Dame versus Texas for "I don't like the idea of alternating quarter-for several plays. Schwartz were more tfian the National Title. It's not backs, and I never have," said Devine. "But Devine admttted that he went with the enough to raise the Irish over Digger Phelps and the Irish doing it kept us from getting us blown out of the multi-quarterback approach because he didn't the .500 mark for the first time cagers in the Final Four. It tub at Purdue." feel entirely comfortable with either Koegel, this year. For the Bellevue, won't even be held against a 
A lot of people may disagree, and it's safe to Courey, or Knafelc in the absence of Rusty WA, rookie, the tallies were his 
[continued on page 20]
say we'll never know for sure: who is ri~ht. But Lisch. He did say, however, that he did see first varsity scores. Devine points out that the offense wasn t offside enough at Purdue to decide that if Lisch is Notre Dame was never in once, wasn't flagged for illegal motion once, and unable to go Saturday, he'd feel confident serious jeopardy, as Schwanz 
WSND broadcasts
was nailed for illegal procedure only · when enough to stick with either Koegel or Courey, opened the scoring at the center John Scully snapped the ball on a although he declined to single out either player. 20-minute mark, taking a pass defensive signal. "Whoever we start at quarterback, we'll stick from fellow freshman Mario Indiana soccer J!ame 
But mistakes aren't the only way to measure an with him until we're very positive that a change Manta, and then closed out the offense's efficiency. Notre Dame was held to is necessary," insisted Devine earlier this week. scoring in the first half by WSND's first-ever soccer less than 100 yards net rushing, and completed As of Thursday night, Devine was uncertain of connected off a Mike Mai feed. broadcast will be aired this onlyllof24passes. It'shardtosaywhetherthe whohe'dtapashisstarter,otherthantosaythat WithhelpfromDan McCurrie, afternoon at 4 p.m., as Notre shuttle system affected those numbers positive-Lisch would get the call if, and only if, he was Schwartz completed the hat Dame hosts Indiana at Cartier ly, negatively, or not at all. . 100 percent at game time. trick with 23 mmutes left in the Field. Brian Beglane, Frank 
It had to be difficult for either Tim Koegel or "Rtght now, Rusty is about 90 percent," game. LaGrotta and Barry Stephens Mike Courey to~ee their concentration and While Schwartz was having a will handle the broadcast on 
b..:u _... -~;nu .. · th [continued on page 22] field day in Albion, Ml, most of _AM-.64. · 
. W4l.l up .DlULU. em:e. ':IP~~~c.~.~e;.,...=·-'-""'"--====""""=-....;.---------....;;.;,;.;;;.,;;~,;,;,;~,;;,;,;,..;.;;;;.;.,;;;,;;,;,;;.;;..,;,;;-J,!!!!,~;.....-----~ 

. ~­r· 
i... ". . 
rBE NO~? 
1
--------------------$17_for the remainder
I 
~ar.ne ___________ 
I 
I
Address I of the academic .vear. I
City___ 
-------1 
I Make checks payable to The Observer . P.O.Box Q
State..,.----------1 
~otre Dame, IN 465 56 
I 
L~~~--------JAll Subscriptions must be paid in advance. L11 'e The Q~.s~rv~r r;;ailed to _your home each day. 

