• • . McKenna replies -page 4 
VOL. XIII, NO. 87 
Chinese units stop advance on Vietnamese border 
BANGKOK, Thailand [AP] ­
China's attack on Vietnam was 
reported stop~d about six miles 
inside the border yesterday and 
Western intelligence sources said 
some Chinese units may be 
pulling back. 
Unconfirmed reports from 
Moscow said all Soviet military 
leaves had been canceled and 
troopsJut on alert. The Soviets 
warne China on Sunday to pull 
out of Vietnam immediately. 
Vietnam said it inflicted heavy 
casualties on the Chinese, killing 
3,500 troops and destroying more 
than 100 tanks since the invasion 
started Saturday. 
The Voice of Vietnam, 
monitored in Bangkok, said the 
Vietnamese killed 1,000 Chinese 
troops and destroyed 30 tanks in 
the rugged mountain province of 
Hoang Lien Son and reported 
simil_ar figures in Cao Bang 
provtnce. 
In Long Son province, Vietnam 
cliamed 600 Chinese killed and 20 
tanks destroyed and said the 
strategic "Friendship Gate" 
border area was littered with 
some 60 destroyed Chinese 
tanks. Fighting was reported in 
other northern provinces as well. 
The reports could not be 
independently verified. · The Vietnamese Embassy in 
Bangkok said the Chinese 
advanced no more than six miles 
into Vietnam. 
Pekin~ has said the attack was 
in retaliation for "armed incur­
sions '' by Vietnam over the past 
year. 
A quick strike followed by 
withdrawal would be similar to 
China's 1962 action in northeast 
India, when China invaded to 
make its point in a border 
dispute, then pulled back. 
The official Chinese news 
agency Hsinhua has carried little 
about the invasion and no 
detailed reports of the fighting. 
Japanese news reports from Peking said China banned all demonstrations concerning the war. 
Bangkok sources discounted reports of continued Chinese air strikes deep into Vietnam. Thai intelligence said the onlJ~ Chinese planes still involved were spotter {>lanes directing Chinese artillery fire. 
A dispute between China and Vietnam has simmered since the communists took over Vietnam in 1975. It has increased over the past year with China accusing Vietnam of mistreating ethnic Chinese, and with Vietnam's backing of the overthrown of the China-backed Cambodian government of Pol Pot. 
U.N. Security Council consul­tations on the situation were by telephone yesterday because of a winter snowstrom that swept New York overnight. 
A U.N. spokesman said Kuwait Ambassabor Abdalla Bishara, the Security Council chairman for 
February,  was  consulting  
particularly  with  non-aligned  
nations.  
Sunday,  Moscow  warned  

China to withdraw its troops "before it is too late" and said it would honor a peace and friend­ship treaty signed last November 
Moscow indicated it would not send troops, however, saying: ''The heroic Vietnamese people ... are capable of standing up for themselves this time again . ' 
The reJ;<>rt of Soviet military leaves betng canceled was from Victor Lows of the London Evening News, a Soviet citizen with good official contacts. 
Louis said it was "understood" the forces had been put ''combat readines Nunber One'' although this had not been officially stated by the Soviets. His reports often relfect Soviet thtnking, frequently before it is made 

1UESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1979 
These students are takin~ advantase ofthe low album prices at the Student Union Record Sale. Orders will be taken until Fnday from 12 to J p.m. in room 2D oflAFortune. [Photo by Ron Szot.J 
official. 
The United States said Sunday it disapproved of the invasion and asked the Soviets to use restraint. Government spokes­men said there was no reason to believe American interests were directly threatened. 
In Bangkok, a U.S. congres­sional delegation postponed its visit to Hanoi until today because of the fighting. 
Rep. Elizabeth Holtzman, D-N.Y., said her delegation had planned to fly to Hano1 yesterday to hold talks with Vietnamese officials on the plight of 5,000 American passport holders and dependents remaining in Vietnam. She is chairman of the House Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees and International Law. 
The nine members of the European Common Market ex­pressed concern over "the ser­tous consequences for inter­
[continued on page 6] 


Counter-1"evolutionaries set fire to 
American consulate in Tabriz, Iran 
Tehran, Iran [AP] -Unidentified "Counter­revolutionary elements" set fire to the U.S. consulate yesterday in the northwestern Iranian city of Tabriz, the city's state-run radio reported. The one American assigned to the post had left Tabriz on Sunday, U.S. officials said. 
Amid other re~ns of disorder, the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomelni warned he would crush any ''bandits'' causing trouble and view their activities as an UJ>rising against his new Islamic republic. 
Tabnz Rad1o, now in the hands of supporters of the Ayatollah, appealed to local citizens to put out the fire at the consulate. 
U.S. officials were unable to confirm the report of the ftre, but said the Michael Metrinko, the only American assigned to the consulate, had returned to Tehran on Sunday. 
Heavy fighting was reported last week in Tehran. Up to 700 people were reported killed when army unites joined pro-shah activists in battles against forces loyal to Khomeini. 
Armed robbers were reported stoppins. lll?~orists 
separatists. In a statement broadcast over Tehran Radio, Khomeini ordered his irregulars to aid police and thearmy in ''maintaining law and order ... a group of bandits and unlawful elements are taking advantage of the situation and are making efforts to pursue their evil objectives." Khomeini, leader of the year-long uprising that forced Shah Mohanllllad Reza Palahvi from power, did not specify who the ' 'bandits' ' were. But his comments appeared directed at the mix of conunon criminals and political opponents now in posses­sion of weapons taken m widespread looting of police stations and military garrisons in past weeks. In other . developments, visiting Palestinian leader Y asser Arafat formally took control of the former Israeli trade mission in Tehran and declared it the worlc,i's first "embassy of Palestine." The mass evacuation of foreigners continued for the third straight day with about 800 Americans 
SMC Board schedules Women's Week in April 
by Pam Degnan Mary's on March 8-9, it was 
announced. 
Plans for Women's Week, a The board members also dis­cultural program emphasizing cussed implementing an overall women and their achievements in energy conservation program to 
the fme arts, and campus class curb sky-rocketing fiiel prices. retreats were the major points According to the AdminiSuation, discussed last night at the Saint there will be an increase in next Mary's Board of Governance year's tuition fees if students do meeting. not engage in voluntary cut­
backs.
Scheduled for April 2-6, 
It was also announced t\latWomen's Week will focus on Regina Hall will present its first women in music, dance and annual Talent Show on Feb. 23 atliterature from the Notre Dame 8 p.m. in the little Theatre inand SMC campuses as well as Moreau Hall. Admission is 50from the South Bend area. 
cents and all donations will bePossible guest speakers include forwarded to the St. Jude'sHelen Hayes, an established Children Hospital. 
actress and a Saint Mary's grad­uate. The Campus Ministry Depart­

Sowder 
ment announced the nmes and • dates of the class retreats. The 
rema1ns Senior class, choosing "Success and Failure" as their theme, will critical meet on March 4 from 3-9 p.m. in the Religious Studies building Andrew Sowder, the Notre behind Augusta Hall. Activities Dame senior strid:en over the on the agenda include an in­weekend with meninsitis, re­
formal mass, followed by dinner mains in critical conditton in St. and group discussions. _ Joseph's Hospital. Sowder bll.S 
been in a coma since SundayApril 8 is the retreat date set afternoon.
for the junior class. As of yet Director of Information Ser·there are no available dates vices Richard Conklin repom:rischeduled for the sophomore and yesterday that hos.J;>ital offina.ls
freshman classes. 
believe they have Identified all The sophomore class will host persons who might be SU!>· 
a variety benefit with all proceeds ceptible to the disease. He addeJ to be donated to the St. Jude's 
that relatively few students 
Children Hospital. Descnbed as reported to the lnftrmary fer being "creative and innovative," interviews to determine whether 
the benefit promises to showcase they should be given oral medi­the unique talents of both cation to prevent them from campuses. The benefit is tenta­contracting the disease. 
tively scheduled for an evening Conklin emphasized that during An Tostal Week. Further 
''there is absolutely no truth to information regardin~ auditions any rumors to the effect that 
will be rublished m coming additional cases of meningitis
editions o the Observer. 
among Notre Dame students 
on highways near the southwestern oil ones of Abadan and .Ahwaz and in parts of Tehran. 
The government sent troops to the western province of Kurdistan amid reports of unrest and a declaration of "independence" among Kurdish departing on two chartered Boeing 747s for Frankfuri:, West Germany. British, French, Australian and Finnish planes also took out nationals and a West German evacuation flight was scheduled for today. 
The $800 remaining from last year's 21 Oub will be used to defray the operational costs of the College Bowl Regionals, which are to be held at Saint have been reported." 
Conklin's statement was con­fumed last evening by St. Joseph's Hospital and the In­firmary. 

Tuesday, February 20, 1979 -page 2



News in brief 
Israel ends diplomatic ties 
with Iranian government 
TEL AVIV, Israel [AP]-Israel's discreet but important ties with Iran ended yesterday with the return of Israeli officials from its capital and the small, hand-written sign ''The Office is Closed,'' posted at its Tehran mission. Some 33 persons, including Israeli diplomats, staff memebers of El AI airline and Jewish Agency representatives, left Tehran Sunday on a U.S. ev~cuation flight to Frankfurt, West Germany, and then flew on to Israel after Iran's new government ordered them expelled. Palestine Liberation Organization chief Yasir Arafat took over the Israeli mission in Tehran after talks with the new Iranian leadership. 

Firemen join striking policemen in New Orleans 
NEW ORlEANS [AP]-Off-duty firemen joined striking police on picket lines yesterday, as National Guardsmen in jeeps patrolled a city denied its traditional Mardi Gras parades. Meanwhile, new talks opened aimed at endin~ the walkout by police,who want their Teamsters Union bargaming unit to includ.e ranking officers. They also are demanding -that the mayor al!fee to binding arbitration. With the remainder of the Mardi Gras celebrations hanging in the balance, the city Civil Service Commission opened a hearing on the policemen's wage and benefits demands. 

Weather 

Mostly sunny and cold today with highs in the upper 20s and low 30s. A 70 percent chance of snow tonight and lows in the upper\ 20s and low 30s. Periods of snow or rain likely tomorrow with highs in the mid and upper 30s. 

Camn===us===-·===~ 
3 prn--I.ECIURE, "non-academic em~;>loyment opportuniti~ for 
humanities graduate students," dr. James kroliK, u. of m1ch., 
MEM. UB. WUNGE 

4:15 pro--SEMINAR, "predator-prey interactions between stoneflies and mayflies: behavioral observations within streams," barbara l. peckarsky, u. of wisc.-madison, 278 
·GALVIN 

4:30pm--FILM, "harvest of shame," 101 LAW BLDG. 
6 pro--MEETING, student food advisory board, faculty dng. rm., S. DNG. HAIL 
6:30pm--INDOOR TRACK, nd, bradley, indiana state, ACC 
6:30 
pro--MEETING, off-campus council, LAFORTUNE WBBY 

6:30 
pro--CONCENTRATION NIGHT, for business sophomores, 122 HAYES-HEALY r 

6:30 
pro--MEETING, neighborhood study help program, dr. skip shannon, SMC Q..UBHOUSE , 


7,9,11 pm--FILM, "silent movie," ENG. AUD. 
7 pm--I.ECIURE, "american pyrariuds & human sacrifice," prof. robt. leader, HOWARD HAll 
7 pm--FORUM, aldemar velasquez, pres. of farm labor org. committee, speaking on the ohio farm workers strike and boycott, LAFORTUNE TIIEATRE 
7 pm--FORUM, "how the placement bureau can help you get a job," richard d. willemin, dir. of placement, 104 O'SHAG. 
7:30pm--I.ECIURE, "building a better memory," jerry lucas, MEM. UB. AUD. 
7:30pm--MEETING, ladies of nd, "evening of spiritual reflection," with rev. james t. bunchaell, MEM. UB. WUNGE 
7:30 
pro--WORKSHOP, "non-academic employment opportuni­ties for humanities graduate students," nd grad student charlotte rios, wilson commons, GRACE-O'HARA TOWN­HOUSES 

7:30 
pm--ORG. MEETING, human values and professional responsibility in engineering, rev. oliver f. williams, 303 ENG. BLDG. 

7:30 
pm--I.EC1URE, ''client services in the big eight,'' coopers and Iybrand, 124 HAYES-HEALY 


O'Meara plans for new dorm 
by Michaellewis News Editor 
To obtain funds for a new dormitory on campus, the admin­istration is hurriedly organizing a loan application to the Depart· ment of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), ·according to Uruversity Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
O'Meara, along with Vice­President for Business Affairs Tom Mason' and the Ellerbe architecture firm., is developing a "somewhat detailed" plan of the proposed dormitory and deter­mining the costs. 
O'Meara said he is "personally optimistic that we will have a new dorm in 1980 or 1981," but added that the projct is still in the early planning stages. He said that he has not detcmnined the size ofthe dorm, the cost, or whether the dorm will house men or women students. 
''We've given the architects a sense of urgency because of the housing problem," O'Meara ex­
plained. "We're working at this full time, one step after another." He pointed out that the specifications of the dorm should be determined in '' a 

FTheObserver_ 
Night Editor: Sue W uetcher Asst. Night Editor: Mary Pat PJiis Layout Staff: joe Ryan, john Smith Editorial Layout: Rosemary Mills Sports Layout: Paul Barry Mmlaney Typists: Mardi Nevin, Tom Pipp, Pete McFadden, Rosie EMT: KT 
Day Editor: john FeTTOii CoP.y Readers: Reed /(jng, Mt'ke Shields 
. Ad Layout: David E. Wood Photographer: Ron Szot 

,­
The Observer !USPS 598 920] is published. Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year l$10 per semester] from The Observer. P.O. box Q,.Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


ARmANDO'S 
s'ARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 1437 N .Ironwood Dr. South Bend 277-0615 
Sue, Ruthie, Armando-stylist 

mon-fri 8-5:30 sat 8-2 by appt. only sat-no appt. needed 
couple of weeks."' 
The University solicited a donor for the dorm laSt year, and applied for a loan from the same HUD program, but was turned down. ''We know basically why we were turned down. This isn't going to be a re-hash; we'll present the case differently," O'Meara explained. "We have a couple of donors in mind,'' he added. 

When asked about student input into this project, O'Meara rep­lied, "We have not thought that through yet. IfAndy (McKenna, Student Body Prestdent) comes to me I'll talk with him about it.'' 
O'Meara added that decisions 
jtad to be made "very, very quic~y·' t~ meet the]une ~ loan deadline. 'We can't labonously ~o through every detail, there tsn't time," he said. 
McKenna said yesterday the the Campus Life Council had originally voted to form a Resid­ence Hall Structure Committee to examme long-term residential needs and provide input from rectors and students into any plans for remodeling exisitng structures or buildiflg new dormitories. 

Vice-President for Student Affairs Fr.John VanWolvlear did not form the committee, how­ever, citing that rectors had already provided such imput. 
McKenna added that the O.C proposed to form the committee ttself, but he was not sure when the members would be named. He explained that the O.C mem­bers end their term April 1, and that no one had volunteered for thecommittee. 
In the letter ofFeb. 12 announ­cing that there would be no housing lottery O'Meara asked McKenna and representatives from the Administration to "see what can be done with existing facilities for next year." 0'Meara pointed out · that he expects overcrowding to be cut in half next year, "but we would still like to make that as comfortable as possible." 
PRE-CANA Any student (undergraduate or graduate) ~~g man~ this spring, summer or early fall an wishing to parttcipate m PRE-CANA (marnage preparation) through Campus Ministry must register by March 26 in the Library CM office. There is limited space available on the March 2-3 and March 30-31 Pre-Cana weekends.  
Last Chancg -buy your ticket TENNIS PARTx Feb 23 7-11 pm •All you can drink! •Munchies • Jacuzzis & Saunas • Racquetball eTennis Tournament Tickets available lunchtime in LaFortune & Madeleva Day Loun~ or Call Shari 234-1996 Janet 287-3804  
8ngineetr'g Jfight ©ut at geniDil CBall tfuegday. 'tJebllually 20 10 ptn -I am cAQQ engmeeJts illliited . but mugt lmve 21 9C{))~ Come flnd our ahout: ...... WJ fluids and k.inernat{cs! C-~ (drink and dance) h J sponsored by .A!Chf "!'A' ~­.A.SCE \ ~ ,..­IEEE ~] \ AS.M'E ... "'" ASAA. ~  

The Observer Tuesday, February 20, 1979 -page 3 



SG Candidates reveal campaign platforms 
RocheIVl.ta 
by Barb J:anghf!nry Executive Edttor 

''Student government should effectively articulate students' concerns" Student Body Presi­dential candidate Bill Roche noted. Roche, who is running with Bill Vita, stated that the need for increased student input highlights his platform. 
Roche and Vita a.;;sert that many students "have recently felt a sense of frustration with decisions made by the Adminis­tration and with student govern­ment's apparent lack of ability to exert influence in the decision making P.rocess. '' They propose turning 'that sense of frustration to posttive and productive advan­tage bt initiating constructive change. 
The change they propose in­volves ~etttng students more involved to routine decision mak­in~ by expressing students' op1nions before decisions are made. ''Direct communication by increased input does not mean equal decision making power,'' Roche clarified. He emphasized that it is to the mutual benefit of both the Administration and the students to have a situation where both parties communicate. 
Roche and Vita plan to improve communications with students by attendin~ hall council meetings and usmg referendums and campus media to keep students informed. They hold that they can increase communication with the Administration and students by providing a student govern­ment that wtll earn the res~ct of the students and the Administra­tion with good research by being well-prepared and by keeping in touch wtth students. Roche said he sees it as student govern­ment's dury to perceive problems and then try to develop solutions. 

Bill Roche 

Roche and Vita outline the improvement of off-campus life as one of their major concerns. They would likt> to place off­campus representatives on the Board of Commissioners and the Hall Presidents' Council (HPC), create an operative off-campus council, and make use of urban renewal projects· to improve the quality of student housing. Roche noted that students could themselves work on these projects. 
Roche and Vita also advocate hirin~ a full-time off-campus housmg director to assist students with landlord-tenant problems. By cooperating with the South Bend Poltce and neigh­borhood organizations, and by allowing off-campus students to store valuables on campus during breaks, they hope to improve off-campus. secunty. 
The Roche/Vita ticket would also like to see the pass/fail option deadline extended, and the course evaluation booklet improved and expanded. Roche 
satd that he noticed positive feedback on the course evalua­tion book printed this year and sees it as valuable. 
In addition, Roche and Vita are calling for increased student input in the hiring and tenuring 
offaculty. 
Asserting that security, the Student Health Center and the bookstore do not adequately serve students, Roche stressed that these are areas where stu­dent input is necessary. He emphasized that student govern­ment has the role of asking questions, and if students are dissatisfied, student government should lead the inquiry. 
In order to ''adopt a mature approach to social life improve­ment," Roche and Vita call for the continued development and renovation of LaFortune, and a re-emphasis on the need for social space. 
Roche, presently Student Union director, sees his experi­ence with Student Union as "being invaluable as far as dealing with r.c:oJ>le and dele­gating responsibility.'' He noted that he would try to run student government the same as he ran Student Union by involving peoRle.
' The president and vice­president should ~>Versee and organize. The president cannot do everything himself,'' he said. 
Roche plans to delegate cabinet responsibilities ''with less specific tasks in mind,'' by being more general yet focusing on some fixed issues. The decisions will not be made by the top two people, he emphasized. 
Roche, a junior Arts and Letters ''tudent, has also served as a Student Union representa­tive to the Campus Life Council, Assistant Services Commissioner and Grace Hall Council represen­tative. Vita, also a junior Arts and Letters student, 1s currently St. Ed's Hall President, an HPC member and a Campus Life Council member. 


Portman/ Wirley 
bv Dan Letcher StaffReporter 
Establishing a student govern­ment willing to work outs1de the convential norms, forming a student securityI maintenence advisory board and obtaining some administrative powers f?r stu~ent government are the ~n top1cs ofthe Dan Portman/~een
Wtrley Student Body President how the two bodies can cooperate 

when the Administration has all the power," Potrman noted. 


Dan Portman 

Portman said he feels that these powers should not be radical, but that, "there ought to be some cases where the student government can implement and administer changes without wad­ing through a pile of red tape.'' 
Incompetency in the secuity force, dissappointment in the maintenence department and a failure to recognize off-campus students' problems are also ad­dressed in the platform. 
"A security/maintenence ad­visory board may help the sinia­tions because it would be stu­dents addressing studenJ prob­lems,'' Portman said. He stated that if this board were under the auspices of a student government with administrative powers, the board may actually have some say in how security may be deployed. 
The Portman/Wirley ticket also sets forth the need for an off-campus commissioner with powers equal to those of any other commissioner. The exten­sion of off-campus shuttle service during the day should also be explored, Portman said. 
The presidential candidate said he also thinks that student-owned business such as Flanner records should be allowed to operate, because "they are such fantastic services to the students." 
In Portman's opinion, the letter from Fr. Hesburgh puts a new light upon the matter of parietals. He stated that the 
Hesburgh letter indicates that there is little that students can do about the situation. Yet, "if the University insists on imposing its morals upon the students, then incoming freshmen should be better informed on the parietals situation • • Portman commented. 
' . . 

and Student Body Vice President . The Portman/W1rley ttcket ticket ' would also like to write) a column · in the Observer to ' keep the "I offer a different approach l)tudent body in touch with what from what recent SBP' s have had student ~overnment is doin~." 
in the past," Portman comment-· · 
ed. He said he is interested in Portman eels It IS important t at
the Student Body President be 
seeing "somebody not already in more of a representative of the the system and accustomed to students. The column may working in the same, old routes" initiate or maintain action for the 
elected president. Portman bod 
stated that, "We want to know student v. how to use the proper channels, Commenting on the poster yet be able to move outside these slogan: "We won't stick pins in channels." your mouths," Portman stated 
that this statement is "basicallyThe Portman/Wirley platform to stimulate interest.'' He added addresses itself to a tendency of that the statement actually goesstudent government to "become along with the ticket's theory ofbogged down in rationality. •• doing something one could not orPortman said he believes that would not ordinarily do.
instead of doing something con­cernin~ an issue, there ts too "I want to be a· new force in much 'unnecessary thought." student government, open to 
fresh ideas,'' Portman con­The platform also states that it cluded.
is necessary to give the student ~overnment actual administra Portman is a junior engineer­nve power. "Right now the in~ student from Flanner Hall. 
students are at the mercy of the His running mate Wirley is a Administration and I don't see freshman from Lewis Hall. 
effectiveness of student govern­ment. His platform charges theR v "without exception, our elected 


Hynu·eI 
officials have countered the
yan 

• Administration's rulings with by Tom jackman meek protests. Meek protests, Staf!Reporter however, do not influence the Administration very much.'' 
Better known as "Hymie," Hyrnie's platform states that Mike Heaney is now in the race ''student government can never for Student Body President along hope to accomplish anything as with -freshman running mate long as the Administration Ryan Ver-Berkmoes. In his regards students as children. It platform, Hyrnie emphasizes the will thus be the major goal of the need for increased student in­Hyrnie-Ryan V. ticket to establish 
volvement and the present in-[continued on page .5] 






Editorials 
McKenna replies to Hesburgh letter 
First of all, I would like to Dame. Also, many of the ideals publicly thank Fr. Hesburgh for which students have traditionally his thorough response to the advocated, i.e. greater personal parietals appeal. Also, I appreci­responsibility, are rarely lived up ate his responding in approxi­to by the students themselves. mately two weeks. This was no The administration, on the other easy task considering his tight hand, has also contributed to this schedule. condition. Because of the recent 
Student Government recog­turnover of administrators who nizes widespread frustration are directly concerned with stu­among the students with the dent life, the administration has current parietals rules. Tills dis­not, to this _POint, developed an satisfacnon over parietals is accurate VIew of campus life merely a part of a deeper and today, measured this against its broader problem. The purpose of stated ideals, and affected this letter is to outline Student chanse where it was needed. Government's perception of this Tills condition of lowered confi­problem and suggest a solution to dence is not irreversible. Indeed, lt. it can be greatly improved upon 
It is apparent that there is a through the Campus Life Coun­condition of deteriorating confi­cil's proposed "Conference on dence between students and the Notre Dame". The purpose of administration. This is negatively this conference i~ t.J togage a affecting the ability of these two healthy cross-section of students groups to work together to and various administrators in a achieve positive change where it discussion and study ofwhat kind is necessary and in the best of place this University is today. interest of the community. This 1bi:; program will be initiated condition has manifested itself through a proposal by Father Van through various confrontations Wolvlear and I to the Campus during the past year. Students Life Council at its February 26 are frustrated because they feel meeting. Tills conference will there is not a healthy exchange of begin at the Hall level and, if ideas. The administration is successful, expand to the frustrated with the students campus-wide level. inability to clearly articulate their lh.is conference is not a solu­ideals for campus life and to live tion to all campus problems. up to these ideals in their However, it offers students and everyday behavior. administrators the opportunity to 
Both students and administra­create a new confidence through tors are at fault for this condition. which many of these problemsStudents, over the last several can be successfully dealt with. years, have been unable to 
Andrew McKenna
generate a well-defined or consis­Student Body President tent vision of student life at Notre 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 


Tuesday, February 20, .1979 -page 4 
i· -..•.• ~­
justice teach-in 


Justice and Business 
I'LL {)() lfRATI CAN. fAHN f)() YaJ PlANT liS 70 fJ5E FOR. A 
~? 
I 
'(OU'I?E 7HE 805S. {.()/JR!!£, IF 7HifT (j()/3, CYEJzyT}IfN6 
ClSE tu!LL, (I 700. ~ 

The reponed business scandals of price-ftxing, corruption, poor and unsafe product quality, bribes, kickbacks and other illegal payments have significantly reduced the trust m the ethical decision-making of American executives. This reduced trust has prompted the level of public confidence in business to fall over 30 percentage points in less than 12 years with the resulting mcrease in government control in everything from product advenising to employee safety. Some observers contend that the continued existence of our business oriented society in its present form is unlikely. 
Of course, not all managers engage in unethical activities; nor are they amoral. However, the age of instant information availability and public insistence on ethical behavior puts the operations and decisions of today' s managers under constant public scrutiny. The luxury of privacy, secrecy and confidentiality in administrative decision-making no longer exists. Today, the very motives of administrators, inside and outside of business, are being questioned. The issues ·of business ethics can no longer be reserved for academic philoso­phers to preach sentimental moralizing to liberal arts students. The problem comes down to individuals and their personal sense of morality. Corporations don't make decisions; l?eople do. Personal integrity and sound professwnal ethics based on a well-thought out value system are now essential conditions for practical effectiveness of business managers --even survival. 
However, the problem of ethical decision­making is funher confounded. Recent research has shown that most future managers (current business students) have judged the climate in American business to be essentially unethical. Unfortunately, many of these newcomers to business decision-making indicate that they may be willin~ to deviate from standards of public concern m order to succeed in their careers. Student self-repons funher suggest that many have little experience or show lmle interest in acquiring the skills needed for unassisted ethical decision-making. 
With -the need for increased conceM and action for improved business ethics in managerial decison-making, it behooves all of us, teachers and students, to consider how we might better prepare ourselves and others for more ethical decison­making in the future. 
This year, 1979, is a climatic point in the history of our nation's free enterprise system. Events, ~th domestic and international, imply strong overtones to the future direction of world business. From this perspective, the "Teach-In" comes at a most advantageous time. It will enable us to pursue Educational Aspects for Justice, particular­ly_ their effect on corporations, employees and consumers. No "business edu'4.tion' is complete without some awareness of the ethical dilemmas of business decision-making or their social implica­tions. As business faculty or future corporate executives the "Teach-In" should be a time of reflection of ourselves, our own value systems, our corporate system, and our joint commitment to the betterment of mankind. One should keep in mind 
to be always objective in judgments, seekin~ to 
discern the truth by evaluatin~ both the positive 
and negative aspects of each situation. 
Tills area of inquiry in decision-making provides 
a number of questions for discussion within the 
classroom setting of this year's "Teach-In": 
International Business 
What implications for International Business does the recent ovenhrow of the Shah of Iran's monarchy portend? Was Western capitalism a causal factor or an unwitting bystander? 
Are socialist trends in Great Britain emblematic of the future direction of U.S. "big bus· if-SS?" 
What is the social responsibility J" any, of multinaticQal corporations to the problems of third world developing nations? 
Domestic Business 

In the.famous Elkhart, Indiana, ''Pinto Trial,'' was the court decison to hold Ford Motor Co. criminally liable fundamentally sound? Was it ethical? 
A recent Wall Sreet journal article reponed Harvard's Graduate School of Mana~ement permits lying and "factual misrepresentation" in dassroom games on "Negotiation Strategy." Harvard justifies the action stating, "it merely reflects current business practice." Is Harvard correct? • What values are being inculcated in Harvard's·students? 
What effect will the increased dependence on computers· have on the trust that the public has for justice ia employment? 
. What is Society's view of Business and other 
institutions? Specifically: 
Why have they developed? 
What are our attitudes toward business? 
What values underlie these at(rudes? 
Compare and contrast our own, student and 
society's view and values. 
What is (are) the changing role(s) of business in 
our society? What does the public expect? 
What role does this particular course or topic have in developing attitudes and behaviors that contri­bute (or do not contribute) to ''improved'' decision­making? 
Personal Business 

How do we show justice within our own immediate environment, in our offices, in our classes, in our dorms, etc.? 
What specific concerns of ethics might be relevant to topics in each of our courses? 
].Ruhe R.FarreU 

of either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD
_The Observer_ reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief~ ...........Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Spons Editor ............ Ray 0 'Brien &x Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ...•.... John Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chris Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and . Executive Editor . ~ .... Barb U.Znghenry Photo Editor ..... ~ .... ,Doug Chn:Stian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... RosCf!I'UY Mills per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cacld_? Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Samt Mary's Editor ...... FJ/en Budtij Business Manager ........ john Tucker Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .........•..... Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ &bRudy 
reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 
. . I 
~ 

The Observer Tuesday, February 20, 1979 -page 5 
Thursday, February 22. in individual courses, ftlmstrips detailin~ justice issues will be shown m the Engineering Audi­
12:30 p.m. Filmstrip: "Keeping People torium, and panel discussiOn will Engineering Auditorium Alive: Malnutrition, the Hidden be held. 
Killer'' James Sterba, Assistant Prop­6:30-8:00 p.m. Panel Discussion: ''The Just fessor of Philosophy, is the Engineering Auditorium Role of an Engineer in Society'' organizer of the event for the 
second time. "The basic idea of the Teach-In," Sterba empha­sized, "is to bring about a University-wide focus on the 
• • . Candidates importance of justice issues in
• 

our lives. There is a certain value to having the whole university
[continued from page 31 
"I think Fr. Hesburgh's fight-celebrating such a concern at the the students as a force in the ing a losing battle. Carroll Hall same time." running of this university,'' the really struck a nerve, shown by Justice Teach-In II, as it is platform emphasizes. the fact that the Administration called, is sponsored by the Uni­
One mode of operation Hymie took about a month to respond versity Committee on Education suggests, beyond conventional with a lukewarm series of adjec-for Justice, of which Sterba is a methods, is "letter-writing tives by Fr. Hesburgh." member. According to Sterba campaigns ro the people that Hymie' s platform statement the committee originated the idea make Fr. Hesburgh tmportant," neglects to mention anything for the Teach-in because of the namely alumni and the Board of about off-campus students, but need for a concerted examination Trustees. He noted that the most he defends this by saying that of the role of justice in all aspects recent graduates are those contri­this was done in the interests of of our world. butin~ a large portion of the brevity. Most importantly, he Professors of varying fields donations. They are the ones feels that 0-C students should plan to approach the Teach-in Hymie said he feels will be most have ~ ~pot on the Board of_ differently. John Thorp, assis­interested in the campus Co,t;mrus~ton~~s. tant professor of Anthropology,problems and will have the most I think 1t s a travesty that feels that in our concern for mfluence on the Administration. off-campus students c~ntribute other peoples, we should recog­

$15,ooo, ~n fees. and are~ t repr~-nize the vtews that they hold, sented, ~e satd. He IS ll;fso ~n-"We have a basic responsi­favor of mcreased security m bility to be aware of what the student-concentrated areas, he situation is in a society such as added. . " ,. Bangladesh," he stressed, "and 
To alleviate the boredom of in our efforts to develop a social life here, !1ymie has se":er-country, there should be a coop­al proposals, from booking erative effort between our coun­more_ talent at the Nazz, to try and theirs.'' 
runnu~g shuttle buses down~o~n According to Sterba, the ap­to var1ous theatres, to orgaruzmg proach to justice issues in some more trips to Chicago or courses presents a problem. For Toront<;>." . _ . this reason, panel discussion of 
Hyrrue satd he feels he wdl get the relationships between justice his votes _from ''people who are and fields of medicine and fed up wtth. the typtcal student engineering are scheduled. bl:!dy prest_dent_-·t~e career-These discussions will accoma­onented, untmagmattve type of date students in the Colleges of person.. .! ask p~ople to re_ad my Science and Engineering where, platform. and I thi~ they w~l take according to Assistant Professor
Hymie Heaney 
me_ senous~y ...l m. rum;ung _a ofBiology Linda-Mar~aret Hunt, Hymie says in his one-and-a­senous candidacy With a little btt drawins such relationships is diiferent personality.'' more difficult.
half page statement that ' 'an 
effective voice" would have pre­He said he believes he will w~, Dr. Hunt intends to speak vented a housing lottery threat because "a lot of people are stck briefly about justice during her and would have enabled a ?~ th~ system we have, ,now, and . class periods. More importantly, Student Union sponsored record •t s ume for a change. she stated, "I intend to encour­

store to exist. As to how the housing lottery threat might have been averted, Hyrnie responds 


Howard Hall 
that "the Administration was able to do that because there was no active opposition. They didn't 
presentswant to admit their own mistake, so they leaned on the students, because they were the least or~anized group.'' 

American Pyramids
'Fr. Hesburgh will take the easiest means to accomplish the ends, and it worked--look how 

&Human Sacrifice 
many kids moved off-campus." Hyrnie said he believes a better or~anized student government rrught not have been "leaned 
An Illustrated Lecture 
on. " 
Hyrnie also attacks parietals in his platform, saying, "It has By Prof. Robert Leader been University dogma that nay activity between men and women after 12 (or 2 on Friday and Saturday) is evil. We don't agree." Again, Hymie sug~est letter-writing campaigns, to 'go Tuesday Feb. 20 above Fr. Hesburgh's head, so to speak." 
He notes, "the parietals regu­7.00 pmlation in DuUzc was orginally intended to protect privacy, and the pact about sex was added later. There's nothing you can do in Howard Hall after 2 that you can't do before 2, c:xcept watch the Late Late Show." 


Justice Teach-in-schedule Sterba organizes Justice Teach-In 
by Michael M6ran age the class to attend the successful than last year's, due to Wednesday, February 21 Wednesday /anel discussion, stronger efforts to encourage The second annual Justice 'Morality an Medicine.' The faculty members to participate 
12:10 p.m. Filmstrip: "Rich and Poor: Teach-In will be held tomorrow students should be interested in and to the official approval and 
Engineering Auditorium What can we do?" and Thursday, emphasizing this because of the involvement endorsement of this year's world justice. In accordance with of this subject in their futures." Teach-in by Father Hesburgh the program, faculty and stu­
12:45 p.m. , Filmstrip: ''Rural and Urban Sterba feels that the Justice and the University Administra­
Engineering Auditorium dents of various fields will relate
Poverty: Seeds of Catastrophe" Teach-in will have a degree of cion.
the subject matter of their 
panicipation as is pracncal for Sterba ho~s ''that Justice 
6:30-8:00 p.m. sources to problems of world
Panel Discussion: "Morality and each course. Sterba and other Teach-in II will heighten campus 
New Biology Auditorium justice.
Medicine" faculty members expect this awareness of issues of justice in 
In addition to the involvement 
year's Teach-in to be even more today's world." 




---~­
ACIOSS DOWN 

1. Part of Great Britain 
1. Be on the 
alert 
2. Greedy
6. 
Westem Indian 


3 Flal' 
7. 
Character in 


4. Branches, as of uThe Tempest,. 
• fraternity 
8. 
'ftained 5. Showed re­


9. 
Burst spe<. ful defer­

11. Hereditary ence 

6. Church parts
elements 
7. Water flask ·12. Composer 
JJ. Make fast famous for 
10. Mrs. Nixon waltzes 11. Sounds of 
surprise
16. 
Pretends 

17. 
Climbing flower: 2 wds. 

18. 
Girl's name 

19. 
Thin plank 

20. 
Smite 

21. 
Forestalls 23, Small horse 


24. 
New York Indians 

25. 
More pallid 

26. 
"Young'un, 

27. 
Territories 

28. 
Atmospheric phenomena, seen on deserts 


30. 
Glossy paint 

31. 
Wise men 




Molarity 



Important Notice to all Juniors. 
Cancellations for Junior Parents Weekend 

r 
~ The Observer Tuesday, February 20, 1979 -page 6 
.. 

12. Strikes hard 



Former basketball star to lecture 
13. 
Supports 

14. 
Fish nets 

15. 
Greek wood-


c
R 


on basics of DleDlorization 
Kremlin supports Vietnamese against Chinese attacks 
MOSCOW [AP] -The Kremlin apJ;>eared to be staying out of the Chinese-Vietnamese conflict yes­terday after issuing a statement conspicuously void of possible Soviet moves against Peking. However, the Soviets were said to have put their army on alen and cancelled leaves. The key phrase in Sunday's Kremlin statement of suppon for Vietnam was, "the heroic Vietnamese people .... are capable of standing up for themselves." This was followed by the reminder that Vietnam has "reliable friends" and the warning to Peking to "stop before it is too late." The statement fell shon of suggesting direct Soviet intervention. 
Yesterday, the Chinese ad­vance seemed to have stopped 
Mike Molinelli 
and it appeared the Kremlin might not have to consider the options its statement left o_pen. 
Repons from Hanoi indicated the Chinese had halted three to six miles inside Vietnam as they had indicated they might in their statement that their attack was a punitive one intended to ''teach Viettlam a lesson. '' 
Moscow repons were circula­ting that the Soviet military had been put on alen and that leaves were canceled because of fight­ing in Asia.The Soviet Defense Ministry's foreign desk, when asked about the repon, said last night, ''yte ~~ not give out such informatton. 
However Soviet journalist Vic­tor Louis, often an unofficial pipeline for leaks, reponed in the London Evening News that the army has been put in combat readiness and that troops were being called back from leave. He said in response to a telephone query that such alens are not unusual here. 
The Soviet statement, which came amid a barrage of anti-Chi­nese propaganda, demonstra­tions outside the Chinese embas­sy and rallies at institutes and factories around the country, said the Soviet Union will "honor its treaty obligations" .with Viet­nam. 
• • • Vietnam 
[continued from page 1] 
national relations.'' 
Do Ngoc Duong, Vietnam's chargee D'Affaires in Bangkok, said Vietnam has not requested Soviet troops but is in contact with Moscow. 
In Paris yesterday Vietnam's ambassador to France, _Vo Van Sung, said the invasion had the "tacit approval" if not the ''complicity'' ofthe United States and linked it to the recent American visit of Chinese Vice Premier Teng Hsiao-Ping, "An attitude of American encourage­ment" was clear, Sung said at a news conference. 
Cambodia, after signing a 25­year treaty of peace, friendship and cooperation with Vietnam on Sunday, condemned China's attack as a "scheme aimed at saving the Pol Pot corpse." 
Vietnam's Premier Pham Van Dong returned to Hanoi yester­day after signing the treaty. 
Thai intelligence sources in Bangkok said two Chinese ships delivered supplied to Pol I;>ot forces at the pon of Kompong Som. 
Vietnam withdrew some gun­boats bloakading the Cambodian coastline after the Chinese in­vasion, the sources said. 
memory, and has given two-week long memory workshops which have helped thousands of people improve their memory. 
Lucas began experimenting with memory aids when he was only nine years old. The key_ to Lucas' great memory lies in the alphabet. Starting from the time he was a young boy, Lucas would spell words alphabetically rather than in their proper letter 

will be taken through Wednesday February 21. 
No refunds will be given to those who not cancelled by this date. 
There can be no exceptions! 
For questions or cancellations call Michon 6841 or Tom 1149 
tues-Jerry Lucas Lib.. Aud. · a Better Memorythurs-HEART 
creative hair designs for men and women 
HolJ!S Tues 8:30-5:30 Wed-Thurs 8:30-8:30 Sat 8-4 Fri 8:30-6:30 
call toda~ for an intment .234-6767 
land deity 
0
17. Short musical 
composition 
s 
19. Is flattering to 
22. Animal doctor 
s 
23. Discussion 
w 
group 
25. Book parts 
0 
27. Crippled 
R
29. Tatter 
D 
s 


Yesterday's Answers 

by janetRigaux 

Jerry Lucas:, former pro bas­ketball star and currently an expen on memory, will ~ve a seminar tonight at 7:30 m the library auditorium. 
According to John Kuluz, aca­demic commissioner, "Lucas will not have time to present in full his 'Memory Business Seminar,' but he will be covering the fundamentals of memory wizard­ry. It should prove to be a very enjoyable and informative lecture.'' 
Millions of people have been amazed by Lucas' seemingly impossible feats of memory. He has appeared on such major talk shows as the Johnny Carson Show and the Mike Douglas Show, and has astounded viewers with such sturits as memorizing everyone's name in the audience. 
Lucas refutes, however, the claim that he has a photographic memory. He believes that every­one has the ability to remember well ; it is not a gift special to him. To prove his point, Lucas has written books on how to improve your memory, has given many lectures and seminars on order. For instance, instead of spelling the word basketball in the usual way, he would spell it AABBEKILST. 
Lucas can spell many words faster alphabetically than most people can normally. This kind of mental activity has led to experi­ments with swple memory sys­tems which have now been perfected. 
While it is true that Lucas is considered the world's leading authority in the field of memory training, many people may know him better as one of the greatest basketball stars of all time. Lucas was a three time all­American in both high school and college. In 1960, he played on the Olympic gold medal winning team. He has also played for three professional teams, and has been named all-pro seven times. 
Lucas has since retired from basketball to devote his full attention to helping people im­prove their memories. 
He has also authored two best-selling books on memory, The Memory Book, which he co-authored with Harry Lorayne, and Remember The Word. 
~~-~-­

The Observer -Sports Tuesday, February 20, 1979 -page 7 
At Daytona 500 
Scuffle overshado-ws race 
DA ITONA BEACH, Fla. (AP) ough criticized Donnie Allison so Asked if he feared resumption 
While Cale Yarborough, a bitterly for executing on the last of warfare between the Alltsons two-time Golden Gloves state lap of the $600,000 stock car andYarborough at next Sunday's welterweight champion, was classic. Both drivers crashed race in Richmond, Va., France giving Bobby Allison a fat lip and when Yarborough refuse~ to giv~ replied, "We won't allow it. Our his own career a black eye, very ground to the frontrunrung Alb­approach in these situations has few people seemed to notice that son. Petry went on to wtn the always been to try to keep the Richard Petry had blocked Dar­race. next one from happening. We rell Waltrip nearly onto the Officials of the National Asso­want good sportsmanship and infield to protect his victory ciation for Stock Car Auto Racing clean racing. If you had some­margin in Sunday's wild Daytona sanctiooin~ body met here Mon­thing like this every week, the 
500. day to dectde whether any of the spon -any spon -. would be in 
"Nobody said a word about driving tactics or the fisticuffs trouble." what Richard did to Darrell. afterward between Yarborough Some contact is almost inevi­Richard had him all the way down and the Allison brothers warrant­table in situations where so on the safery apron of the track, ed disciplinary action. 
much is on the line, he added. 
blockin~ him. That's because NASCAR President Bill France ''I'm sure they didn't stan theprotectmg your lead is one of the Jr. said, "No decision on any race with that in mind," France
rules· of the road in stock car possible disciplinary action or racing," said one official. fines, if any, will be made until said of the three separate ramm­
ing incidents between the Alii­"That's the idea in any spon. I after a thorough study of t~e sons and Yarborough. ''Things
don't know what Cale is beefing incident and review of the televt­about." sion tapes.'' No announcement happen in the heat of the 
activities. Usually afterwardPetry's was exactly the kind of was expected before Tuesday, he they'll all cool off, get a goodblocking manuever that Yarbor-added. 
night's sleep and everybody will 
approach it a little different the next day." By next weekend, France said everything should be resolv.-:d.
. Pollsters
• • If it isn't, the Richmond track provides all the right ingredients impressive victories over North for a slam bang race. It's a small, 
[continuedfrom page 8] 
Carolina State and Louisville and narrow half-mile track where named on each of the ballots. a 70-68 setback to Maryland. sheet metal darna£:e is a fact of The Bruins were tabbed no lower Michigan State, 842 points, life. By the end ofthe race, cars 
than fourth, while the Sycamores jumped into the No. 7 position, have been battered, tempers are were ranked seventh by one up one place, ahead of Syracuse, shon and just about anything voter. which fell from seventh to No. 8 can and has happened.
Notre Dame and North with 814 points. 
After last fall's Grand National Carolina maintained the No. 3 Marquette, No. 10 last week, race at Richmond, Darrell Wal­and No. 4 positions after easy moved into ninth place with 686 trip and Neil Bonnett were placedvictories. The Irish, 19-3, points while Arkansas rounded on 30 days probation for rou&hc~llected 1,073 points following out the Top 10 with 601 points ­driving. Race winner Waltnptnumphs over Manhattan and one more point than Southwest was cited for running Bonnett off West Virginia last week, while Conference rival Texas. 
the track while Bonnett wasthe Tar Heels, 20-4, received Iowa, No. 141ast week, jumped leading late in the race. And978 ~ints after beating William to 12th, followed by Louisville, Bonnett was cited for rammingand Mary and Vtrginia. Ohio State, Temple, Detroit, Waltrip's car on its way toSoutheastern Conference Georgetown, Purdue, Vanderbilt Victory Circle and nearly running leader Louisiana State, 886 and DePaul, the only newcomer over an official.
points, moved up one spot into to the Top 20. fifth place, ahead of Duke, the Alabama, No. 20 last week, France noted there had been Blue Devils, No. 5 last week, was the only team to drop out of no recurrence of that dispute received 865 points following the Top 20. after the disciplinary action. 

Tracy jackson andteammates return to the ACC tomo1TOW night to entertain Oklahoma City. [Photo by John Macor.] 
• • . TUJo-tnile 
[continuedfrom page 8] 13:59.5, set by Jim Hun in 1976. The Irish placed two in the pole vault, as Perry Stowe took third at 15 feet, six inches, and Mike Noland took ftfth at 14 feet, six inches. Also placing was Arnie Gough, with a 7. 3 third in the highhurdles, and the distance medley relay team of Aragon, Jacques Eady, Burger and Tony J-Iatherly, which took ftft:h in 9:50. Irish coach Joe Piane thought the meet was a successful one for Notre Dame. "We had very good competitive efforts from every­one that went," Piane said. Tonight the Irish will be com­peting in their ftrst home meet since January 26, as they host Indiana State and Bradley at the ACC. Pre-lims will begin at 6:30 p.m., and the fmals should begin about 7 p.m. 
"Indiana State has a really decent team,'' Paine comment­ed. ''They have a lot of good people in all of the events. Bradley is strong in the sprints and field events. They have a triple jumper who has gone over 50 feet, a long jumper who has gone over 24 feet, and two strong hurdlers. 
"It should be an even meet. I think we can win it, but we will need solid performances from everyone," P1ane added. 
/nterhall track 
All those who signed up for the interhall track meet should be in attendance at the ACC tonight at 9:30p.m. Any questions should be directed to the interhall athle­tic office at 6100. 

~_____J 

SRorts 
Two-mile relay squad sets mark 
by Mark Perry Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame track team will be represented in the NCAA Indoor Championships in at least two events, as its two-mile relay team eclipsed the qualifying time at the Central Collegiate Confer­ence meet in Nornal, ill., last Saturday. 
Chuck Aragon, Jay Miranda, Rick Rodgers, ancf Pete Burger combined to take ftrst place, settin~ a new meet record by fmishing the race in 7:30.8. This was well under the NCAA .qual­ifying standard of 7:33. 
The NCAA meet will be held at Cobo Arena in Detroit on March 9 and 10. Aragon qualified for the 880-yard run earher in the year. 
In addition to the fme perfonn­ance by the two-mile relay team, the Irish placed in some other events. Steve Welch placed fourth in the three-mile run, but more importantly destroyed the Notre Dame record in the pro­cess. He completed the race in 13:50, breaking the record of 
[continued on page 7] 


WCHAwatch 

Magic number is three 
Mr. Hyde is dead. Dr. Jekyll has returned to the land of the living. 
Whatever ant:icdote the Notre Dame hockey Brian team took two-and-a-half weeks ago seems to have worked. The Mr. Hyde potion has worn off, and 
Beg lane 
the Irish ftnd themselves in the midst of a ftve-game Winning streak and back near the top of' the Western Collegiate Hockey ~tion. 

!ech losses equals three, the Irish will have horne 
It is said that February is the most important tee. 
So, you see, the magic number for Irish home-ice month in college hockey, and Irish Coach Leftv in the playoffs is three. Ifyou ask for my choice ofSmith and crew have been writing a new textbook how the Irish might get horne ice, I'll take No. 5 for supponing that theory. In just two short weeks, the simple fact that Michigan Tech faces theNotre Dame has jumped from ftfth place to a tie for t>ughest schedule over the next two weeks and willsecond in the WCHA. The Irish also moved from be under a lot of pressure to do well at both sites if12th to seventh in last week's WMPL national they want to fmish high in the standings. 
collegiate hockey poll, and when the new rankings are released later this afternoon, Notre Dame But right now, 31 people read this
as some 

should ftnd itself back in the top ftve. 
sente~ce, they are all~oba~ly ~eeing with 
It is a dramatic turnabout cliat has those eyes my ptck. They are Le Smtth, Asststant Coach which found themselves looking up at the Irish for Ric Schafer and the 29 p ayers or ~ that comprise . the _ftrst half of the season staring upwards once the Notre Dame hockey team. They will all pick agam. No. 1 for the simple reason that it is the most 
successful way for them to fmish the season.
-And now with the ftrst round of the playoffs scheduled to begin two weeks from tonight, Irish That seemS to be the key to this team's whole fans wishing last Saturday's win over Minnesota season--a coaching staff that put aside all the was not their last opportunity to see Smith and pessimistic preseason rankings and believed company in action may just have their wish strongly in the potential for success of this team,granted. Home ice, an object which seemed so and a team itself that ignored the same predictions distant for Notre Dame two weeks ago, seems to be and believed in its own abilities. Put both of these within definite grasp. tozether and you've got a combination that pays 
Here is the breakdown of the possible ways off--and has this year. Notre Dame will be guaranteed horne ice if things 
It carries on down the whole line. From thego the way of the Irish over the next two weeks. 
scoring leaders you can see out on the ice eachThere are ftve possibilities: · week, like Dave Poulin and Greg Meredith, to the 
1. If Notre Dame wins three of its next four relative "unknowns" that don't see much ice time. games, it/will assure its~lf of home ice March 6-7. Players like South Bend's own Matt Brach, a Remember, though, that all four of these games freshman walk-on who hasn't dressed this year, will come on the road. Hrnrnrn, it's possible but but who works as hard as anybody in practice every there are easier roads to take enroute to horne ice. day. All possess a winning attitude that has 
~;arried out onto the ice and into the win-loss2. IfWisconsin loses three of its next four, Notre column.
Dame will have horne ice. The Badgers are at Colorado this weekend and, of course, host the Sure, playing the last two series of the season on Irish in the season fmale. There are still some. the road is no easy task. But Notre Dame has had easier routes. just as much success on the road as it has had ai 
horne (63 per cent winning percentage in both3. If Michigan Tech loses three of its next four, cases).
the Irish will be at horne come March 6. It's possible, because the Huskies fmish the year on 
. "Well,Iiiaybe having a£~ winning percent-
the road at Minnesota and Duluth, not a very rosy age on the road is a good · with the way we schedule. ftnish the vear," smiled Smith. Now come the easier possibilities: 
You know, there are 29 players and one assistant4. If any combination .f Notre Dame victories coach who agree wholeheanedly with him. Andand Wisconsin losses totals three, the Irish will that's because they don't believe in what thehave horne ice. 
preseason polls or other coaches say -they believe 
5. Ifany combination of Irish wins and Miclugan i m themselves. · · 
Tuesday, February 20, 1979 -page 8 
Gedney shuns bruises ; awaits NCAA regional 
the Blue-Cross liability has had
by Bill Marquard 

everything from two broken
Sports Wnter 
fmgers to pulled ankle tendons, 

For a man who has spent more and has injured virtually every time on the trainer's table this pan in-between. Besides the year than on the mat, Irish aforementioned stricken appen­wrestling co-captain George dages, Gedney has had a se­Gedney is nonetheless confident parated shoulder, injured ribs, about his chances in the NCAA strained and pulled knee liga­Western Regional wresding tour­ments, the flu and a variety of nament to be held at Notre Dame other diseases. on Saturday and Sunday. "I'm pleased with the im­
''Mter injuring my knee fresh­provement I've made this year, man year and being told I'd although it's been slow and probably never wrestle again, gradual," diagnoses Gedney. "I I'm just happy to be panially haven't been able to put every­healthy," exudes eternal opti­thing together yet this year with mist Gedney. "For me this much consistency, but I'm entire season has been almost a hoping that this weekend will be pre-season leading up to the the charm." NCAA tournament." But Gedney will have to put it 
Yet Gedney's pre-season, as together and keep it there this he calls it, has been nothing to weekend to advance to the scoff at. His overall record is Nationals, which will be held at 16-12, although his year-long Iowa State this year. Cal-Poly's struggling to make weight has freshman sensation Dan Cuestas certainly taken its physical and is currently ranked fourth in the psycholosical toll on that mark. nation at 118,_~d he appears to The seruor 118-pound Gedney be the tourney favorite. If fmished second in the National Cuestas moves up to 126 for the Catholic Invitational this year, NCAA tounament, Cal-Poly losing by one riding time pomt in senior Gary Fisher, who was the finals after both the regula­second in the Western Regionals tion match and overtime match last year and fifth in the NCAA were deadlocked at 2-2. Gedney fmals, will move into his spot. is currently tied for seventh t)n Drake junior Scott Impecoven, Notre Dame's all-time victory runner-up at the Midwest list with 50 victories to his credit. Regionals last year should also be 
"Geor~e is a very hard-nosed a strong contender along with wrestler, ' explains Irish Coach Nevada-Las Vegas' Dave Suarez, Ray Sepeta, who became head who sports a 32-5-1 overall mark coach of the Irish when Gedney coming into this weekend's tour­was a freshman. "He's not a real ney. flashy wrestler, but he can beat "I think I'll make it to the you with the basics--he's very semi-fmals for sure," proposes fundamentally sound. Gedney. "I realize that the 
"If George can claim an competition is tough, but being a advantage in the Regional tourn­senior I think my experience will nament, it's experience," notes be a big factor." Sepeta. "George has been a "Geoq~e is deceptively hard to three"year starter and he's a score pomts against,'' concedes veteran senior--that certainly has Sepeta. ''He gives you a lot of to be in his favor. '' openings and as soon as you 
Yet this, his last NCAA tourna­think you have him, he cuts off ment, will only be the second that the opportunity and moves in. the Pensacola, Florida, native He has a few really good moves ­has been able to participate in. A that he can hit you with consis­knee operation freshman year tently. . sidelined him for the tournament ''The competition at 118, in while weight problems last year fact in this entire tourna.rnent, thwaned his bid for a National will be intense, so George will tourney berth. He competed in really have to excel,'' offers the NCAA's sophomore year, but Sepeta. "But he never quits and he was forced to move up from he has a lot of hustle, so he could his accustomed 118 pounds to surprise a few people this week­134, thus reducing his chances end." considefably. To be sure, Gedney is one 
If anything has a bearing on senior who will be feeling pain Gedney's chances for success this weekend. Yet somehow he this year, it could very well be his probably won't be thinking too injury~ prone body. This seru on, much about it. 
Pollsters drop Sycamores 
NEJf YORK(~ -Ua.A, Ua.A and Indiana State were denied the No. 1 position by six [continued on page 7] points last week, outpolled 
The Top Twenty teams in the Associated
Indiana State by ftve points 
Press college basketball poll, with first-placeMonday and grabbed the top spot votes in parentheses, season records and in the Associated Press' College total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17-1& 
15-14-13-12-11-1Q-9-8-7·&5-4-3-2-1:

Basketball poll. The Bruins received 23 1. UCLA (23) 20-3 1,151 2. Indiana St. (37) 24-Q 1,146
fust-place votes and 1,151 points 
3. Notre Dame 19-3 1,073
in balloting by a nationwide panel 4. North Carolina 20-4 978 of60 sports writers and broadcas­5. Louisiana St. 21-3 886 ters. Ua.A. 20-3, edged Arizona 6. Duke 19-5 B65 
7. Michigan St. 18-5 842

State 85-83 and cruslied Arizona 
B. Syracuse 21-2 814110-86 last week. 9. Marquette 19-4 686 Indiana State, which outpolled 10. Arkansas 20-4 601 
Ua.A 1,196-1,190 in gaining the 11. Texas 20-5 600 
12. Iowa 18-5 529

No. 1 position in the poll last 
13. Louisville 22-6 430

week, collected the remainin$ 3 7 14. Ohio St. 1&7 310 ftrst-_{>lace votes-and 1,146 pomts 15. Temple 20-3 300 this tlDle. The Sycamore blasted 16. Detroit 20-4 296 
17. Georgetown, D.C. 20-4 260

West Texas State 100-75. but 
18. Purdue 20-6 258

struggled past Southern illinois 19. Vanderbilt 18-6 79 69-68 last week. 20. DePaul 18-4 61 







