~---~-~----~--------~-----­
.. 
• • • 'ABeCedary'-Page 7 

VOL. XIV, NO. 51 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1979 
Trigiani, 1Wixted call for clarificati<>n of spending 
by Molly Woulfe Senior StaffReporter 
Saint Mary's students pay over $7,000 annually itO the Notre Dame student govern­ment to help fund NO clubs ar rl activities, The Observer learn­ed last night. ND students do not pay such a fee to SMC. 
Pta Trigiani, president of the Saint Mary's Student Govern­ment, said she will be in contact with ND Student Body Presi­dent Bill Roche to determine how SMC students benefit from the programs in question. Roche said yesterday that, while he approves of SMC's indivici ual programs, "there's still an· imbalance in activities going on here and over there." 
The money is collected from a mandatory $4 fee on SMC tuition bills. The money is sent to Notre Dame, and the ND Board of Commissioners allo­cates this money along with NO's $17 Student Activities Fee to Notre Dame clubs and organ­izations. 
"1 feel it's important for students to know what they're financially backing," Trigiani said. She added that she would like to see a detailed description of how SMC students benefit from the contribution. 
"Saint Mary's itself has a wealth of things to offer Notre Dame students, both male and female," T rigiani continued, citing Oktoberfest, the Speakers Series (which rec(:ntly featured Dave Toma and Betty Williams, 1976 Nobel P·eace Prize Winner), the Movie Series, a Rape Awareness Pro­gram, Career Days, and Alcoholic Awareness Wed. "And everyone's more t:han welcome to attend them," she added. 
Sheila Wixted, treasurer for SMC's Student Government, agreed with Trigiani: "Since we are contributing money, we should have more say in how it is spent.'' She suggested having more SMC representa­tives on NO committees, or using the collected $4 fees to fund and organize a SMC Student Union that could work with NO's. 
Roche, former director of the Student Union, said that while SMC's programs "are good, they're of little or no benefit to 
Notre Dame.  
"No  one's  gotng  to  them  
from  Notre  Dame,"  Roche  
commented.  ''People  go  to  

Saint Mary's for social reasons.'' 
"We respect what Saint Mary's is doing ~in terms of activities, and I hope it can continue," Roche added. "But there's still an imbalance in activities going on here and there. The $4 represents the difference in the flow from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, and the expenditures encoun­tered.'' 
"But Saint Mary's does, and should participate in all activi­ties," he said. 
Roche pointed out that efforts have been made to increase SMC/ND activities on SMC's campus, citing the bonfire dur­ing "Welcome Week," and programs during last year's An Tostal. 
The $4 fee has been in effect since 1976. Previously, SMC students paid $25 to the SMC Student Government, a portion of which was alloted to ND. 
"We do reap a lot of benefit from Notre Dame,'' acknowl­edged Mary Laverty, SMC dir­ector of Student Activities. 
"But our students have become more confident and indepen­dent to fulfill themselves social­ly, athletically, and academical­ly, and are definitely moving forward." 
Gffoupsgeneratesupporl 
SMC cot.nrnissionjoins withSCC 
by Marlf1e Brassil Saint Mary s News Editor 
The Saint Mary's Spiritual Commission has joined with Notre Dame's Students Con­cerned for Cambodia (SCC), announced Spiritual Commis­sioner Mary D. Ryan at the Board of Governance meeting last night. The purpose of the group is to generate support and awareness among the stu­den,ts in a big push befiJre Thanksgiving. The Saint Mary's Spiritual Commissiion will be covering •he work on Saint Mary's Campus. 
Plans will center around this weekend. Collections for relief will be taken up at Thursday's dinner, Friday's lunch and dinner, and Saturday brunch. The money collected will be used speCifically for the six Holy Cross sisters who have gone over to Thailand to help in the relief programs there. 
Five of the sisters are nurses. At this point, nursing and care 

As the airfills with snow flumes, we are reminded that few pleasant fall days remain as the South Bend winter looms ominously. [photo from Observer photo fzle] ' 
Leaders alter demands 


Shah must return money, property 
(AP) -Iranian leaders yester­day dropped their demand that the shah be handed over to them immediately and sec new conditions for freeing the U.S. Embassy hostages in Tehran. But the Moslem militants hold­ing the 98. hostages rejected any compromtse. 

Iran accused the United States of stirring a ''climate of war'' in the world, asked for a meeting of the U.N. Security Council, and hinted it might seek an OPEC oil embargo against America. 
The request for a council meeting, handed to U.N. Secur­tary-General Kurt Waldheim late Tuesday, said world peace was threaten('d by American 
are of more value than food to cant for us to be behind them.'' the Cambodians. "We (the Board of Govern­
"It is important that we have ance) have a duty to make this tie with the sisters,'' said students aware of the situation Ryan. "They are a direct route m Cambodia,'' declared Mary for the money co the services 
(continued on page 2]
aiding Cambodia. It is impor­"war psychosis." Security Council President Sergio Palacios de Vizzio said he would meet with individual members of the 15-nation council today. 
The apparent split in Tehran carne after 11 days· of public solidarity between the hun­dreds of students who seized the embassy Nov. 4 and the regime of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. 

Iranian foreign affairs chief1· Abolhassan Bani Sadr, in a letter to Waldheim, proposed the United States asree to an international invesugation of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi's alleged crimes and turn his U.S. money and property over to Iran. 
He implied the results of the inquiry would force Washing­ton to return the deposed ~ monarch, now hospitalized for cancer treatment in New York. 
Another Iranian official, radio and television director Sadeo Gotbzadeh, said the regime was ready to end the embassy occupation "before the extradition of the shah for humanitarian reasons and the interests of the hostages," t~e Kuwait news a8ency reported. 
Tehran Radto, in a repprt monitored in London, said Khomeini hacl guaranteed the shah would get a fair trial and ·be able to hire as many defense lawyers as he wanted. The radio also said Ayatollah stated that if the shah were absolved he would not object to restoring the monarch to power. 
.The Carter administration 
had no immediate response to 
the evident softening of the 
position of Iranian authorities. 
But in one of the first reactions, 
Sen. Henry M. Jackson, 
D-Wash., said rhe proposals 
''will never be accepted.'' 
Rani Sadr's conditions were set out in a letter to U.N. Secretary-General Kurt Waldheirn. 
''The American government ~houl~, ~t least, accept the mvesugatton of the guilt of the former Shah of Iran and its consequences," Tehran Radio quoted him as telling Waldheim. ''The American government should return co the Iranian government the 
(continued on page 4] 

SG opens Stepan for evening use by students 
Beginning tomorrow, Stepan Center will be open to students in the evenings as an additional facility on campus, according to Student Body President Bill Roche. 
The center will be open from 6 p.m. to 11 p.m. for section, hall, intramural and free competition on two new basketball courts and a vqlleyball court. The facilities will be open to any Notre Dame student, and court time will be controlled by using a reservation system run through the Student Activities Office. 
The opening of Stepan fulfills a campaign promise made by Roche last semester and concludes an effort involving Fr. John VanWolvlear, Vice President for Student Affairs; Dr. James MciDonne!l, director ofStudent Activities; Glenn Terry, director of Security and Sandy Brandt, SG special projects commissioner. 
Under the new system, students wishing to use the courts must make reservations through the Student Activities Office. Students will not be allowed to use the facilities unless they have reserved court time. 
Roche said this policy ~ill be use~ to avoid "students showing 
up to play b.asketball dunng the mtddle of a concert .Jr special 
even.t and beu~g forced a~ay." He said Stepan will be open every 
posstble eventng, bur wtll have to be closed for special events 
such as Mardi Gras. Students should check with Student Activiue~ 
Ombudsman, or The Observer for availability of the center. . 
Student Activities Director McDonnell said his office will make 
every e~fort "to reserve at least three hours for free pickup games every ntght." He noted that the building is already committed to . ROTC in the afternoons, and time has already been reserved by 
Grace and Flanner for section basketball games. 
The effort to open Stepan began last May, when SBVP Bill Vita 
proposed the move for more recreational space to the Board of 
Tr~stees. The Trustees agreed to the plan, and a University 
ma~~ltenance crew installed the backboards and volleyball 
eqUipment and roughed up the cement floor. 

News in brief 
Wednesday, November 14, 1979-page 2 
Americans hide in Iran , 
• • • Cotn01ission 

escape from takeover 
\continued from page 1] plans for more work to be done what the sec is doing.
LONGVIEW. \X'ash. (AP) -A man who says he escaped after Thanksgiving, but is hold­Other business discussed atfrom the U.S. Embassy in Iran as it was being sr.~ized. by Ellen Maccio, Co-Ex commis­ing off on them to place more the meeting included theMoslem militants has told a newspaper that at least e1ght sioner, in support of the work. emphasis on the present Community Thanksgiving MassOlher Americans escaped and pr?bably are hi~ing i.n Tehran. 
· oAfter the Holocaust in efforts. 
Sunday, Nov. 18, at 11:15 inKim King, 26, who said he lived 1n Iran for about s1x months, Germany we said it would never ''The Spiritual Commission Regina Chapel, and thetold rhe Longview, Wash., Daily News that U.S.S1ate 
happen ngain, but it is lrappen­began plans for an extensive Wednesday night Masses,Depanment officials s<;emed surprised that any?ne es.caped 
ing. · drive concerning Cambodia as whith will be held in Augustafrom the embassy dunng the takeover Nov. 4 m wh1ch 98 Tht-Sp!ritual Commission has soon as they learned of the six Chapel at 10:00. 
persons, including about 60 Americans, were taken hostage. 
Holy Cross sisters' mission,'' Ryan said. "When I heard about the formation of the sec

UA W expects ratification of 
Soprano 

we plugged our forces in for the 
Meeting
ad hoc effort. 
"We have not dropped our



Chrysler contract proposal 
to present 

initial ideas that deal with a 
long term support for our 
to discuss
IWTI{OJT (AP)-Workers at rwo ofChrysler'sbusiest plants mission sisters, but because we
rcwcrcd the United Auto Workers' tentati_ve three-year are students concerned for


recital today

1 <>llt raL t wir h the No. 3 autorP:J.k :or, the UA W sa1d yes~erday. 
Cambodia, this drive is ex­Bur unron oftiL ials said other locals were approvmg the 
NDwomen
tremely important," emphasiz­
1, oflt raLt ;llld rlu·~· ex/wet ratifica.tion. The contract would put Guest artist Anne Perillo, , I
ed Ryan.
< l1n -.let worker-. )ehmd their counterparts. at 9eneral 
soprano, will present a recital at 

Vice-president for Student There will be a meeting too\f"'"~'" c..rp. and Ford Motor Co. for the first ume smce the 
8:15 p.m. today in the Memor­

Activities Kathleen Sweeney discuss concerns ofNotre Dame 
111du-.rn wa.-. organited 42 years ago. UA W memb~rs l_1ave 
ial Library auditorium. The 

a::.i..ed !Jail presidents at the women today at 4:30-p.m. in thealrt';uk appron·d pacts with t~os~ a.uto.makers: De~ptte tnat, 
recital is open to the public 

meeting to organize hall Library Lounge. The possibilitylcadt·r-. ot rhl' IH·l local uniOns at a mee~mg about the without charge. 
meetings within the week to of forming a women's interestLllllflltl r in Kan...a" Cuy last month said thetr members h~d 
The internationally acclaimed 

help make students aware of group will abo be discussed.
karcd an e1Tn more meager co~tract.. Tho_se leaders sa1d 
soprano graduated from the rlw1 expn red lit de trouble winnmg ranficanon. 
Julliard School of Music where she was a student of Florence Page Kimbal. Perillo, a faculty




Dam overcomes challenges, 
member at Chicago's DePaul University, has appeared as a

filling begins soon 
soloist ar Grant Park concerts 


The Station that Rocks you AM 64 
and witth the Chicago Sym­LONDON, TENN. (AP) -The Tellico Dam, which defeated 

tram the Tower TONITE PRESENTS
phony in the Verdi Requiem. 

challenges from the snail darter and the Cherokee Indians, The Soul Hour from 9-11 overcame what may be its final obstacle yesterday as federal Featuring the best in Jazz, Soul, Rythm and Bluesmarshals evicted the last two of 341 farmers whuse land was And

Erratum

rakcn for rhe .31:!.000-acre federal project. All three families. 
Sportsline, where you the.. listener can call in.
had rdu...ed the government checks totaling$216,000 mailed 'to thl'tn when tht'ir land was condemned. Spokesman Lee 
All Fr~m Notre Dame's Stud~nt Rock, AM 64, Slrt'ppcard said TVA has not set a date for closing the dam's 
Yesterday's Observer 

inadvertently advertised the gates to begin impounding a lake 2) miles southwest of 
film "Suicide or Survival." 

1\.tltlXI rlk. But.thar date was expected to be soon. 
The film is scheduled for 

The dam. h<·gun in llJ(J6, was finished last month after 
showing this Thursday, Nov. 15 

c..ngrc... -. and President Caner exempted it from wildlife 
at the LaFortune Little Theatre 


·ON THURSDAY 
law..; rhar ~ropp<"d it in 1977. In September, they ordered the 
(first floor). It well be shown at 

dam compkr<"d ·'not withstanding any other laws.'' 
noon, 4 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. 


INOVEMBER15™
There is no admission fee. 
The film is sponsored by the Student Committe for the In­
Weather 



;NOIFS,
"iunn\ and cool wday high in the low 40s. Fair and cold 
G1ve up c1garelles
vestigation of Military and Nu­

ronrghi. Low in the low to mid 20s. Sunny tomorrow. High 
for JUSt one ciay You
clear Disarmament. All mter­


'ANDS
111 rlw mrd .w.... 

OR 
JUS( might give 'ern Uf!
ested students, faculty and staff 

for good
are encouraged to attend. 

THE GREAT AMERICAN
The Observer apologizes· for 

SMOKEOUT. 
the error. 

American Conc£lr SociPty.
CamP-US. ·-... ~ ... 
.. 
. -.
~The Observer_ 

12:15 pm FASTER'MASS DILLON CHAPEL 
Night Editor: Ann 
Monaghan4:30 pm LECTIJRE "the chemistry of t~ansition . met~! 

This space contnbuted by the publisher 
Asst. Night Editor: Dave

carbonyl compounds: formation and properties of radiCals. 

LaBergeprof. theodore brown, u. of ill. 123 NIEUWLAND 

Copy Editor: Bruce Oakley 

~-------------------­
Layout Staff Eddie Holden

) pm COLLECTION clemson ticket for underprivileged 
News Editor: Mike Lewis

children DINING HALLS 
Features Layout: K. 



RIVER CITY
Connelly .

5:?>0 pm AUDITIONS for one-act directing MOREAU HALL 
Sports Layout: John
SMC 
"doughnuts" Smith 
Sports Copy Editor: Mik~~

<dO pm MEETING sailing club 204 O'SHAG Olenik 

RECORDS
Typists: Nancy ''Moses'·

-•1m FILM "die nihelungen . part 2, kriehild's revenge," 
. . northern Indiana's largest
Malorie, Tina Terlaak, Paula
t\I~CH AUD. 
"I can't be nice and still be 

record and tape selection
funny'' Shea. Mich Santello, ' 

7. 'J. 1 pm FILM "paper moon" ENGR. AUD.. 
and concert ticket headquarters
Kathy Murray 
EMT: Kim o' I'm boring7: w pm LECTIJRE "the reust> of old mines," ken tonight'' Convey

nHlandkss. architect, ARCH. AUD. 
Proofreadpr· Mike Onufrak 


$1.00 off! 
ND Day Editor: Keith 

Any album or tape.
i:W pm MEETING young democrats LAFORTIJNE BALL Melaragno Lin1it one per customer -thru Dec. I.
1\00i\f 
SMC Day Editor: Kathy Domanico

7:50 pm PANEL DISCUSSION "alternative careers in 
Ad Design: Matt DeSalvo, ? 


18,000 albums and tap•• In stock
medicine" 106 O'SHAG 
•
Photographer: Ken 
Berumen 

ND;smc atud•nt ch.c:ka acc•pt•d #ot up to
H pm CONCERT "livingston taylor" O'LAUGHLIN AND SMC 
120.00 ov•t putchaa• amount
The Observer [USPS 5!JI 9201 is published Monday thtough friday ex­

·Op•n 10 to 10, 7 days a w••k
H pm LECTURE "the semantics of indexicals" GALVIN 
cept during exam and viCitilll periods. The Observer Is publlshld by tile
AUD. 
students of Notre D11111 IIIII Sltnt Mary's College. Subscrtptlla lillY Ill

H pm LECTURE "emerson & greenough : prose, poetry & 
purchaltd for $211 per yur IS11 per 

River City Recorda
sculpture," prof. john mcdonald A/V THEATRE CCE 
umattrbfrom The Observer. I'.0. box 
a. Notre allll.lndllllil 46556. S..d 

50970 U.S. 31 Notth
class "=Xe paid, Notre 011111. ln-

H: 30 pm TALK fr. van wolvlear STANFORD CHAPEL 
dillll . The Observer is 1 llllllllllr If till 

3 mil•• notth of campus 
9 pm MEETING knights of columbus with guest speaker joe 
Associated Pras. lUI ~ 


277-4242
rights .,. I'IIIMCI.

yonw K OF C HALL 
---~-·----------·-----·...... 
.-· 
..... 


The Observer Wednesday, November 14, 1979 -page 3 
Slogans ~unchristian' 


T~YLo 
WEDNESDAY, NOV.14 8PM 'R_
:E~anners cause controversy 
f'''·.·....,................,,,.., ..• 
Andre Kale, an illusionist, displayed his talents for an avid audience yesterday· in Washing,ton Hall. [photo by Ken R..:rumen] 
by Laura Vasquez 

"We're at college now, and I was just trying to make a statement, which apparently I'm not allowed to do,'' said]oe Regotti yesterday after he and his roommate were tcld to remove an anti-Iran banner they had disJ?layed outside Dillon Hall. Dtllon Rector Fr. Daniel]enky sent a message to the students at lunchtime ordering them to remove the "Bum Iran, Not Its Oil" banner, because ] enky was ''getting grief.'' 
According to Regotti, a soph­omore philosophy major with strong sentiments about the situation in Iran, the balllner was intended to ''get across the point that we should take a strong stand." 
''We let him into the country; he's sick, he's here, and it's not up to them (the Iranian terror­ists) to tell us what we can do ... by taking hostages and trying to intimidate us," he said. 
"It didn't seem as if anvone was too excited, so I wante·d to take a stand and shake it in front of the campus. We were just trying to make a state­ment," Regotti added. 
Neither Regotti nor Markowski meant the sign to be taken literally. 
"l intended more to say, 'Hey, it's a big deal, a big thing for the U.S., and we should act strongly,''' Regotti said. · 
] enky explained he had the 
banner removed because 
''people commented that the hall lo0ked like it wanted to declare war." He said some people considered the banner's message ''un-Christian.'' 
"It didn't seem like the kind of thing the University stood for," ] enky said. His decision to remove the banner was apparently the result of public and personal disapproval, rather than pressure from the Administration. 
Regotti has not been the only person expressing anti-Iranian sentiments on campus. Tim Boyle, an architecture major and member of the Navy ROTC program, coordinated the "S.O.M.F . IRAN" sign seen on the north end of Grace hall. Although Boyle could not be reached for comment, his room­mate and several fellow partici­pants are expressing what they observe to be . the ''general opinion" that "something has to be done. " . 
''When asked what the initials stand for, Doug Greif, a resi­dent of one of the rooms displaying the letters, answer­ed, ''The initials stand for things I don't think you can ptint." 
The sign went up on Saturday evening after the football game, and no one has said anything concerning its removal, although when the Grace resi­dents realized it was going to be publicized, they appeared cer­ta~n they would be reprimanded for expressing their anti-Iranian sentiments. 
Although Regotti: s banner 

O'LAUGHUN"'AUDITORIUM
was involuntarily removed he' does intend to make ano~her one which will say "Pray For 
RESERVED SEATS 
Iran" which will be more in keeping with University ideol­
TICKET SALES THROUGH 
ogy. "It's not a joke," Regotti 
SMC PROGRAMMING OFFICE 
insists. "They can really use 
$5.00
the prayers too. I really mean 
SPONSERED BY SAPB 
• '' I 
It. liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
ND-SMC 
The Nazz presents ... Thurs 15th
Democrats 
Student Player Production of 

to meet 
STOP THE WORLD (9-10) 
The Notre Dame--Saint Mary's Young Democrats will 
Jerry Graff and Rick Walters ( 10-12)
meet at 7:30p.m. today in the LaFortune Ballroom. Students who are interested in working on plans for 1980 are urged to 
Fri. 16th 

attend. 
LaFortune Lunchtime Concert (11:45 -1) Gene Barbenera 

Convention 
Jeannie Ritter and Mike Daly (9-1) 

committee 
Sat. 17th Mickey Mallardi Gene Barbenera 

meets today 
and the debut of Jim Greselbradt et al. 
The Campaign Committee for 
(9-1)
the Mock Republican conven­tion will meet at 7 p.m. t'todaY.n 
Admission free 
room 2-D of LaFortune. Any­one wishing to work on a 
in the basement of LaFortune 
campaign should attend. 

--~~­
Hearings begin 




Nation reacts to Iranian crisis 
(AP) -The 50,000 Iranian students in the United States, told to report to immigration officials or face deportation, were the targets of more de­monstrations yesterday across the country. 
Iranian flags intended to be burned were selling like hot­cakes for $13 each at a store across the street from the Betsy Ross house in Philadelphia. 
"We Reserve the Right to Refuse Service to Iranian Citi­zens,'' read a sign posted in front of the First Edinon res­taurant and disco in Oceanside, N.J. 
About 200 persons chanting
"Drink your oil" watched as;_________________________ 
a homemade Iranian burned on the Indiana Uaiversiry campus in Haute, Ind. 


BRIDGET'S 
Residents of Tenn.. lined up to 
Seven & ·Sevens
anti-Iranian petition by District Attorney TONIGHT Rum and Cokes 
Richard Fischer. City were the first to sign. only 50¢ all night 
Small anti-Iranian demons tions were staged in New Y Grand Junction, Colo., THURS more and elsewhere 
ney Genreal Benjamin Wake Up The Dead Night ordered all Iranian students 
report to featuring the within 30 day to show that are full-time students 
MANHATTAN
quired by their visas. 
A government asked not to be identified, sai PROJECT BLUES BAND the action was an forestall any violence by 
9:30 -10:30 25¢ drafts
cans that could lives of 60 hostages who been held at the U.S. Em in Tehran for the past 10 days. J;!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~l 
In Chicago, federal authorities have taken three Iranians into custody to await exclusion or 
LfVIN AN EVENING WITH 
deportation hearings, authori-
GS'f'OJV 
ties said. William Skidmore, an assistant deputy director for deportation, refused to say whether the incident was re­.Iated to President Carter's or­ders to begin deportation hear­ings for Iranian ·students who 
are in the country illegally. 
Meanwhile, four Iranian stu­
dents jailed since Friday for 
allegedly plotting to kidnap 
Minnesota Gov. AI Quie were 
released. Ramsey County At­
torney Tom Foley said that 
while there had been good 
cause to arrest the four Iranians 
form l\!ankato State University 
!'here was not sufftciemevidence to charge them. At the University of Missouri in Columbia, Mo., about 500 students staged a demonstra­tion that ended in jeers, cat­calls, shouting and chants aim­ed at Iranian students on cam­pus. Two Iranians in the crowd were surrounded and heckled. 
but not harmed. 
Stan Schiermeier, an organ­izer of the demonstration, call­ed for release of the hostages in exchange for the former shah of Iran. if n~cessary. He was frequentk interrupted by the crowd. which chanted, "De­port, deport. deport." 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------­

The Observer 


AU-BOWL OR {;j BUCKS ($400) 
e
• 

\ 
• Student Union Concerts Presents An Evening with With 
HARRY 




CHAPIN 
A Benefit Concert for the World Hunger 
Friday Dec. 7 · 8 P·M· p.m. Notre Dame ACC Tickets $6.50 and 5.50 
on sale at the ACC Box Office 
9 am. to 5 p.m. also at the usual ACC ticket outlets and River City Records Stores in 
South Bend and Misawaka 


EAGLES 
THE LONG RUN 
TOUR 79 
/)on H·cnlcy • Glcn11 Frey l)tHl Felder •Joe Walsh I'inu>thy B. Sch111it 
--· ---· ---------------­
Frid!iy Nov. 16 8pm Notre n~me ACC 
All seats reserved front stage $12.50 Rear Stage 10&$7.50 tickets on salt. ACC Box Office 9am 
to 5pm also usual ACC outlets and River City RecordsStores in So. Bend 
Wednesday, November 14, 1979-page 4 

A sign that the lnsh netters' season wzll soon be upon us was the appearance yesterday of coach Digger Phelps at Howard Hall. [photo by Ken Berumen] 
• • • Shah 
[continued from page 1] 
wealth and property which the 
Shah, his family and the leaders 
of the former regime have 
transferred to the United 
States.'' 
Bani Sadr went on to ask for a 
Security Council meeting, ~ay­
ing, "The American govern­
ment is immersing the world in 
a climate of war and the 
government of the Islamic Re­
public of Iran sees its own 
peace and the peace of the 
region and the whole world 
endangered.'' 
Iran's radio and television 
director, Sadeqh Gotbzadeh, 
like Bani Sadr a member of 
Khomeini's all-r.owerful Revol­
utionary Councli, told a news 
conference in Tehran that once 
the new conditions were met, 
''naturally the way would be 
clear for steps toward his 
return.'' 
The Iranian regime is ready to end the embassy occupation "before the extradition of the shah for humanitarian reasons and the interests of the hos­tages,'' he said. He said the 
proposals had the endorse­ment of the Council. 
But the government-run radio later quoted spokesmen for the militants at the embassy as rejecting "any conciliatory 
proposal.'' They said they could not compromise -the shah must be returned to Iran for ·trial. 
The severity of the split between Iranian authorities and the militants could not be determined. Palestine Libera­
tion Organization sources said PLO envoys in Tehran last weekend found hard-line and more conciliatory students bickering with each other about strategy. 
Khomeini himself has not been heard from since a speech Saturday in which he rejected any negotiations and declared the shah must be returned. He is in seclusion in his headquar­ters city of Qum, 100 miles south of Tehran. 
As for the hostages, one of their student captors, reached by telephone by a Toronto Star reporter, said they were "OK and there is nothing to worry about. They are getting much food. They could not be treated five-day hunger strike Monday in support of their demand for the shah. 

The State Department dis­closed yesterday it had estab­lished telephone contact with the embassy several days ago and was relaying messages to the hostages. It refused to say whether any significant negoti­ations had been conducted on the special line. 
U.S. officials pondered their next move and President Carter cancelled a trip to Pennsylvania so that he could monitor the Iran situation. And the U.S. aircraft carrier Midway was steaming toward the Arabian Sea, near Iran, for what Pentagon officials said were long-planned maneuvers. 
The Carter administration has repeatedly played down the 
Brown to deliver lecture 
Dr. Theodore L. Brown, an inorganic chemist from the University of Illinois School of Chemical Sciences, will deliver Peter C. Reilly Lectures at Notre Dame. The public is invited ro attend his lectures today and Frid~ at 4:30p.m. at Niewland Science Hall, room 123. 
Professor Brown's research 
interests include the chemistryof transistion metal elements, and a technique called nuclear 
quadrupole double resonance spectroscopy; he will treat both topics during his lecrures. 
He received his bachelor's degree in chemistry in 1950 fro the Illinois Institute of Techno­logy and the Ph.D. from Mich­igan State University in ·1956 after serving three years in the 
U.S. Navy. Since he joined the University of Illinois faculty in 1956, Brown has received many professional honors, the most recent a Guggenheim Fellow­ship in 1979. 
The Reilly lecture series hon­ors the memory of the late Indianapolis industrialist Peter possibility of military action to free the embassy hostages. 

In his letter to Waldheim, Bani Sadr reacted to Caner's cutoff of U.S. purchases of Iranian oil by hintin~ that Iran might seek an ann-U.S. em­bargo by other members of the Organization of Petroleum Ex­porting Countries. 
''Do you not think that the people of Moslem countries whole oil is placed at the disposal of the industrialized countries for a pittance would use this opportunity to show their dissatisfaction and anger and that that cutoff of oil would turn the crisis into a world crisis?'' 
Later yesterday, Iran's Pars News agency reported that Iranian Oil Minister Ali Akbar Moinfar had informed his fellow OPEC oil ministers that "due to the spirit of cooperation that exists between the OPEC countries, Iran expects that member countries should back up its stance against the U.S.'." 
Just what kind of backing he was seeking was unclear. But unofficial analysts in Kuwaitsaid they believe Iran wants OPEC assurances that Arab oiil pro­duction will not be boosted to help the United States over­come the Jack of Iranian oil. 
KofC h lrJ
tO 0 U 
•
SerV"Ce 
II 

The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus invites all members of our community to a Rosary service tonight at 6:45 at the Grotto. You are asked to meet at the Knights of Columbus Hall at 6:30. 
This Rosary will be said for the Americans held in Iran and also to celebrate the 125th anniver­sary of the Promulgation of the Dogma of the Immaculate Con­ception by Pope Pius IX in 1854. 
An icon of Our Lady of Guadalupe, Queen ofthe Amer­icas, will be on display. This icon 1s making its way across the United States in an effort ro 
.,..,bpt.t:!.r. :.:. .!11~. ~ilitants and :~· R,eailly and ~s.~ps~~ed. ~Y. ·:inct:~a\c:••M.~rian devottQ.~~·:.in .·...
~q Mishawaka: ·.:;w•:• 
m~~Y....O.~h~Jr.ama!ls ~sg_ap. -~ .•.-.•the DepanmenF->:vh~.~~~fYv .•.')1t~·c:,o,wn~J:· .. , .::~·:. ·. ·., ·.~ 
. f:ztt'"f' R?Jt 'd W'd 'd)' b "Y}ft'"t'•, •)*}··'?\ HX'--· • .•..•.•• . ···£)'_' ... ~ ·' ··htta ~.......... , • I•, . . r ., •.• ' .. ,._ ·~R~..,.. 

byjana Schutt 
The HPC heard reports last night on the Cambodian prob­lem and the need for volunteers to help with refugee resettle­ment in' South Bend. The discussion also covered ~:he Board of Commissioners meet­ing held Monday evening and the forthcoming alcohol surveys sponsored by the Notre Dame Psychological Services Center. 
John Murphy, a student on 1the committee created to involve Notre Dame in the Cambodiam aid campaign, spoke to the council on the urgent need of these starving people. 
"A total of 2.2 million people will dit in Cambodia and 25<',­000 more ~eople living on ti·Je border are 10 immediate danger ofdoing so if relief is not sent: to them. This is not an age-old problem, but one that has occurred recently due to war. It will respond to financial aid,'' Murphy said. 
The Cambodian Committee 
-has organized a fast for Monday Nov. 19 during both lunch and dinner in the dining halls. Sign-up sheets will be available in the dining halls tomorrow 
· during the dinner hour and Friday at lunch. 
Murphy explained that there wil also be collections in front of the stadium before the Clemson game and in front of the dining halls. 
"This is a one shot deal," stated Murphy. "Our commit­tee will dissolve once the Notre Dame community has been asked for support and contri­butions.'' 
The money donated will be earmarked for use by six Holy Cross sisters who have been called to Thai refugee camps, and will be used for food, supplies, and medicine. 
''This drive is really to raise coqsciousness on the Notre Dame campus as well,'' added 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­President Carter, acting at his wife's behest, ordered an im­mediate U.S. airlift of special fooa for children and other supplies yesterday to Indochin­ese refugee camps in Thailand. 
Rosalynn Carter, who visited the camps last week, announc­ed the presidential action when she detailed her recommenda­tions for helping thousands of sick and starving refugees. 
'~we cannot lose time," she told a White House gathering of executives from international relief agencies. ''The situation is urgent." 
Mrs. Carter announced that the president also approved these other recommendations: 
-An immediate $2 million gra;nt to UNICEF to buy rice for thel refugees, whose food sup­ply! was said to be less than 30 
aa~s. 
-An increase in the number of refugees trom Thailand to be 
) 

Paul Riehle, Keenan president. "We are here in a spiritual environment and it is important to realize what values we stand · for." 
Terry Keeley and Kate Mc­Guire explained the need for assistance in the Volunteer Services Office in connection 
[continued on page 8] 



Carter orders food airlift 
1fnilTrnihJ nf :\ntrr D;~.~ut 
I he·:e bee:~ &.s::ei t.~ '!:::1-:J!":.e ~h~ tuc!ents Concerned for Ca:--bod1a, a:l e::! J-,oe c:;-:-:!t.e~, t~ estab:!.isn an ererceney ~an ~e:!ef Fur.d. 
As r.tost o~ J'Y.J t.no·.,, ta:~ o:' th~ pop,lle:tion of this !'r"~l"T.':.erly pea('erul ecunt::: i",as te~:'l des~royeu. 0( the SO:':'.e four t.!.llior. !eft, at least. ;;·.;a e.r.d a Pal!' to tt:ree million are in d!.re dang~r of dent.r. ~roc. star•l8tion, It is calculated that the:· are now d.r1n~ ut e rate of a~out 50,000 a '.leer. or 200,000 a ll'Onth. Tr.at rr1~a:J;; <:::ne death every fifteen seconds, so the der.and rOT ar.tior, ·;.:; t;!'~er.t. 
1 

In o.ddltioo to ur::rcr:r and the !.-..ernatior:al Cor.:nittee for the Red Cross in Gen•!va, there ar six or seven agencies, atl prhate an'd vol\mtat'!l 1 ·o~:-.o al'e ac "i.vecy er'.gaged in Ca.,bod.l.an relier at tht> t·or.-ent. All r them need funds and r.-ost or therr. are already .sper!.din!I ;.or t~an the:r have at hand in antfe1patif'!""! of 1mr hel:;J: late on. 
~any Jl~ple exc,Js·~ theseh·e:s ·1!'0::l C:'ling nothing about the Holocaust because tho!'/ sa:.d t~eJ ~!.d not reallY know what ~ras hap-;leninc. E·1er.,·one t:r.o-..·s ~r!:a":. i~ :;appenin& in C8ltbod"i.a today and all of us ~.ust c., cur par';. ~~ -prevent another :-:olocaust !'M:"l ha;rp-':!ni~;:, e·.-e:! t!:ou::= !i'.al!' a Holocaust has lll!:reod:t happened :-or ti":a~ r..a~!cn. 
Th l.s carpU!: has a : ....&::s b~etl a q~"?assionat.! actor t.n 
~·:oery intc:-:!atto::a! ~~:;eo;.te:-1 no~ s:.c~"J;,· an observer. I 
t.rust t!"tat all ?!' u: '<~!.11. r~: t-ehi:-.d ~e studf'nt effort to 
P.:,tab:~s:: a Car..be1.::.a!l Re!.:.O?:~ Fur:d e:'ld t:: put it into the 
hends of thot~oe 'Jh':l a:-e a::tua l!.Y !n Ca. Lod.:!.a r.i •ling relief 
"-:. t?'le ::'0!'"-ent, as ...e:: u alom:: the '!.a!. borde'r where the 
1·'!!\:_:e!s a:re pourinr: o·,er :n er.o..-ous nt:.-bers, ?0'~ of the;, 
o!':'ecteJ ·,..lth r.alar;;:. n.r:i :::.-sente!";··· i~e :-ay be A s~all part 
-;,f the toh.!. effcro;., h-..:t. let us be a ene!'OI..:S and effective 
:-.··all part. 

resettled in the United States. Hereafter, most of the monthly quota of 14,000 refugees allow­ed into America will be filled from Thai refugee camps rather than from among the boat people in Malaysia and Hong Kong. 
-$4 million for the care and maintenance of refugee camps. 
-A review of the refugee resettlement process, which is said to take too long. 
The airlift will contain veg­etable oils and other food to meet the nutritional needs of the refugees, many of whom suffer from malnutrition. 
It also will include mobile equipment to provide water for refugee camps and equipment to improve communication be­tween camps and relief agen­cies in Bangkok, Mrs. Carter 
[continued on page 8] 

ND-SMC 
•

organizes relief effort 
In coordination with efforts to aid the starving people of Cambodia, interested members of the Notre Dame--Saint 
Mary's community would like--­to stress the urgent need for an immediate response to the plight of these people. 
A "Cambodia Response" will be declared from 5 p.m. tomor­row to 5 p.m. Friday. During this time, dormitory respesent­atives will collect from door to door in an effort to raise both money and public awareness of· the crisis. 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesbrugh, Notre Dame president and national chairman of the U.S. relief effort, will celebrate a "Cambodia Response" Mass in Sacred Heart Church Friday at 5 p.m. 
RELIANCE.. ELECTRIC.O 
Eoual Opportunny ~-~Qyor M!F IH 
.-----~~~~~=================

CELEBRATION/RIVER CITY p,oudty p,esents 




tDoiiJ Ba.,chef 
... 
with Special Guests 
Point Blank 
Thursday, November 15 8:00pm 
mottis Civic Auditorium 
South S.nd 

~I! Seats Resetv•d J8.50 & J7.50 
River City R•corda (U.S. 31 No~, W•at•rn Ave., ffilahawaka Ave. & Dunea Piasa In ffilthlgan City) 

Student Union Proudly Presents 

~laturday Rov. 17 Stepan Center 
Tickets $7.00 General Admission 8pm 
Tickets available at Student Union Box Office-Laronune and all River City llecords Pl-.nty of Ticketi·:-Jiill available and at the Door 
~ilii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iii~.'.".·-. ~~~:~, -~. 

------------·---­

Features 
Wednesday, November 14, 1979 -page 6 
Stop the World • • 
Expectations influence our respon­ses. How we anticipate an experi­ence sets us up to be etther disappointed or pleasantly surprised. Quite frankly, when I knew that "Stop the World--! Want to Get Off' was being presented by the Student Players, a theatre group entirely run by students, I lowered my expecta­tions somewhat. By any standard, however, this musical succeeds and I apologize for my temporary doubts! Saturday's performance turned out to he a very pleasant surprise. 
"Stop the World ... " is an uncon­ventional musical by Leslie Bricusse and Anthony Newley. It is both witty and sensual as it presents us with the life-long meanderings of one "Little­chap''. The play opens with a company of actors warming up before a rehearsal session. Their individual actions slowly blend together to tell the story of Littlechap as he travels around the world and rises from obscurity to corporate bigwig and 

member of Parliament. Thus, we 
fphoto by Beth PrezioJ
have the structure of a play within a 
play and this works well. The dog, but before the audience can 
White-face at; of the players wear is a begin to root for him, his base 
continual reminder that on stage instincts of lust and greed take over 
there are only actors playing roles-­and we see him as the heartless 
no truly human characters for whom oP.portunist that he is. Rather than a 
the audience can develop a feeling of vtllain, he is simply an amoral social 
closeness; but Littlechap is not climber inextricably caught in the 
someone we want to get close to trappings of success in our modern 
anyway. The overall result is that the corporate world. By the time his life 
play i~ sterile, yet manages to make has come full circle, it is doubtful that 
tts po10t. he has learned anything. The play 
Littlechap starts out as an under-does not preach, it just holds up a 
Bruce Oakley 
So UJe can all 
•

breathe easter. • • 
Air pollution, water pollution, the work area is especially hot and 
• Expect the best 
Mark Muzzillo 
mirror for us. show rises and falls with him because 
Despite the sober theme, we are he is not only on stage continually,
given an ample spoonful of sugar to but he is the focus of the action 
help "the medicine go down. The throughout the play. Yet he bears up 
music is delightful and catchy, and well under thts burden, and the 
much of it is familiar. Rather than audience likes him at the end, despite
playing up big musical numbers, this never really liking Littlechap. Thts is 
show cleverly uses the technique of possible because of the play within a 
interspersing snippets of songs play structure, and it is a great credit 
throughout the performance--songs toJim Buzard that he pulls it off. His 
both from this play and from other singing voice is adequate, but does 
sources. This, coupled with the not measure up to the excellence of 
plentiful use of puns, keeps the his acting. 
dialogue interesting, keeps the show Kathy Rae Biondi is a superb
moving, and keeps the audience performer as Evie, Littlechap's En­
involved. glish wife. Her voice is clear and 
The ensemble providing musical strong and she is an outstandingaccompaniment rendered a fine, actress. She also plays the three flawless performance. The percus­roles of the women with whom her sion section created the desired husband has affairs--a Russian, a mood, especially during the factory German, and an American. For each scenes. John Berners deserves of the four countries she hails from, special mention for his trombone she sings a song proclaiming that she playin~. Throughout the ~lay, when­is a typtcalwoman of that nationality. ever Ltttlechap talks to hts boss, we These are great hits with the audi­never see his boss, nor do we hear ence and the biggest roar goes uphim speak. Instead, the burly notes when she complains in a heavyof the trombone substitute for the Russian accent that Littlechap ''was dialogue of the boss. The timing was my man, but he done me wrong."perfect here, and these scenes were Her presence is a true asset in this most effective. production. 
The greatest single strength of this The final plaudit goes to the production is the mime. The ensem­director, Jeff Mousseau, a mere" ble acting of "Stop the World ... " sophomore at ND. His direction is depends on the successful use of remarkably good, especially consi­mime by the entire cast and this play dering what one might expect from a is not disappointing. The mime is young student director. He knows particularly strong during the period how to coordinate the complex ele­at the outset where no dialogue is ments of music, mime, choreography spoken, during the mechanized work and acting to ~roduce a smooth, scenes, and during the learning-to­flowing work whtch allows the audi­walk scenes. The entire staging is ence to grasp its theme anJ to be well done in the intimate confines of thoroughly entertained as well. This Washington Hall. The lighting is is no mean feat. "S r op the excellent and the costumes are World ... " is a happy success thanks appropriately uniform and simple. to Mr. Mousseau and company. 
Ltttlechap is portrayed by Jim Serves me right for underestimating Buzard. In many ways, the entire such fine talent! 
quality of food, and the dangers of nuclear radiation are areas of great concern to most people. For Edward 
A. Riley and Robert M. Zerr, of Notre Dame's Office of Environmentaf Health and Safety, such concern is a full-rime jPb. 
Riley and Zerr have responsibility 
for insuring that all departments on 
campus are operating in compliance 
with federal safety regulations con­
cerning working condttions, equip­
ment, chemicals and radioactive ele­
ments. 

The bulk of their work is based on 
regulations contained in the Occupa­
tional Safety and Health Act (OSHA) 
passed in 1970, and in the Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission (NRC) 
guidelines for safe use of radioactive 
ts<>topes. 

The office was created by the 
administration in 1969, largely as a 
check on the quality of the food 
st·rvice, atcording to Riley, who has 
bt·en wirh rhe office since irs incep­
tion. 

Sinc:e then, the scope of the job has 
broadened considerably. 
"Notre Dame is like a small city, says Riley. "We have our own power plane, fire depanment, laundry, and food services. And everything -from industrial shops to chemistry labs ­has to ~ checked to insure student and worker safety. '' 
Thar means Riley and Zerr must stuffy,'' says Zerr, who has a masters 
in bionucleonics from Purdue. "We 
break out our testing equipment ­
oxygen meters, temperature probes, 
filters and pumps ·_ and take a 
sampling. Usually it takes about two 
weeks to process the results. If we 
need on the spot readings, we have 
colorimetric tubes, whtch as the 
name implies, indicate by their color 
the amount of carbon monoxide 
present on the air." 
Zerr's chief area of responsibility, 
however, is the purchase and safe 
use of radioactive isotopes. His job is 
to insure that departments using the 
isotopes he purchases are equipped 
with appropnate shielding and dtspo­
sal systems. 
A few years ago, the various departments using radioactive ele­ments acted independently of each other. Each department had to have its own NRC purchasing license, and ~cquiring such a license is a relatively 10volved process. The university recognized the advantages of centra­lizing the purchase of unstable elements under one office. 
Zerr, who began working part rime ~ith Riley in 1975, then became a full time staffer and the sole purchasing agent of radioactive isotopes for Notre Dame. 
The rwo inen work comfortably and efficiently together, making all the tests, processing all the complaints 



Serving equally 
Rita M. Cassidy 
On November 2, Jimmy Carter tal, will serve as Medical Director, signed Presidential Proclamation coordinating medical teams and sup­4700, calling on ai!Americans to give plies as well as determining areas of generously to the relief agency of greatest need. their chotce to help allevtate the The objective? To help combat the threat of suffering and death of appalling death rates brought about Cambodians. by widespread illnesses and starva­
Sister Olivia Marie, superior gen­tion. The effort will extend into eral of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, Cambodia itself if permission to enter had a day earlier, issued her own that country can be obtained. appeal by telephone to the regional What has all this to do with us in the superiors of the CSC Sisters 10 the Saint Mary's-Notre Dame communi­
U.S. And, today, exactly fourteen ty? Perhaps Sr. Olivia Marie has the days later, six volunteer CSCs are on best answer to that question. In a the first lap of their journey to the letter addressed to the Holy Cross refugee camps on the Thai-Cambo­Sisters, she does, in fact, speak to all dian borders. of us. 
Because Catholic Relief Services 
''I am sure that ma11y ofus WCJuld
sees nurses as an immediate priority 
very much like to have the opportuni­
need, all the volunteers are register­
~y for this direct service, were it
ed nurses. The sisters spent Monday 
possible. Let me assure you that you 
in New York at CRS headquarters, 
are involved in the effort of sending
Tuesday in Boston securing visas, 
these six Sisters because it requires
and left today for Bangkok, where 
sacnfice ... Your participation in this 
they will recetve a crash indoctrina­
way is less dramatic, but equally
tion into Cambodian culture and 
serving the cause of the suffering
language before beginning their 
poor . . . May we know the
work. 

compassion ofMary's heart as toge­
Four of the volunteers are former 
ther we respond. '' 
Saint Mary's students: Sr. Miriam 
make sure that all persons using 
equipment on campus are aware of 
rhe manufacturer's requirements for 
such use, all work zones have 
tolerable temperature and oxygen 
levels, all buildings have appropnate protection equipment (such as fire extinguishers and the like) and markmgs (exit signs, radiation signs, high voltage signs and so on), and that all worker or student complaints are checked. 
"Say a worker complains that his and filtng all the reports themselves. Riley notes that the campus is occasionally visited by various agen­cies -insurance companies, the OSHA people and others -to check on environmental safety here, and the government makes a check on the university's isotope license every two years. 
Still, Riley and Zerr deserve a lion's share of the credit for the fine environmental conditions at the uni­versity. 
Paul of St. Agnes Medical Center, Fresno, Calif.; Sr. Paula Goettleman of St. Alphonsus · Hospital, Boise, Idaho; Sr. Maureen Grady of St. John's Hospital, Anderson, Indiana; Sr. Madeletne Marie of Holy Cross Hospital, Mission Hills, Calif. 
Sr . .Kathryn Callahan, who leaves her post as Director of Staff Develop­ment at St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, is remembered by the 1975­1977 students in the Rome Program as their resident nurse. Sr. Helen Mari~., also of the-Southaend Hospi-
The Students Concerned for Cambo­dia are making it possible this week for each of us to do something more than wringing our hands and sighing deeply about what amounts to a 1979 "holocaust " to make a personal gift, perhaps the gift of life, to those who are indeed our sisters and brothers in God's family. 
Six CSC Sisters have given us an example-and a challenge. They offer their hands to be our hands extended 10 su orriwe lovo. 
·. ·, '\.o" .. _..·..-. .· .. ·"" ·, "'-. ... -......... ·...... ~ ~ .} . -. \~ : 


The Observer· Wednesday, November 14, 1979 -page 7 
ABECEDARY -how does your whimsygo? 
Ralph Mcinerny's ABeCedary-An Antic Alphabet employs a unique play on words to describe and at times criticize the adult language. Beyond illustrating letters, Mcinerny takes words and describes man's destruction of language. P.L. Stow's creative designs add charm to 
ABeCedary. 
"I.e! P stand for paradox ... 
lhe lie ofthe land l~'> this: 
our words bind not and ga 
unburdened by Our true intent ... ·~ 
Mdne:-rnv uses P to tell of man's inability t~) speak truth. T~e poetry goes beyond imaginative w0rds and ve:-rv seriouslv reveals t e truth beliind a language of liars. In his description of "l, the author reveals the vastness but not necessarily the 

They spell 1wonderful' 
A-Be-Cedary Marcia Gura 
. On November 8, the Juniper Press gave birth to a 63-page ABeCedary._ A what?' you ask. ABeCedary: An Antic Alphabet, by_ Ralph Mcinerny, ts a witty. adult approach to the ABC's we all learned as chtldren. For each letter of the alphabet, Mcinerny presents a P?em wh_ich twists and t_wine~ around the imagination creating a web of fanctful delight. Puns, ~lltteratton, and literary trickery br.ing freshness and challenge to the most baste component of 
the English language--the alphabet. . The opening poem, ''To. My Reader'', ts a mischievous, warnmg concermng the commg pages: 
''You are not good 
Despite your pleas 

You are to learn these ABC's. 
You are not good. '' 

This methodical madness was set loose to the public at an autograph signing party held at the Library Lou~ge on Thursd~y, November 8. Everyo~e involved with ABeCedary's productiOn and well wtshers met to celebrate tts publication. . 
Ralph Mcinerny, the man behi1_1d this. verbal_ attack _on conventional English. was the guest of honor. He ts a na~tve ofMmneapolts _who has been_a professor of philosophy at Notre Dame smce 1?55.. As evtde_nced ~y h_ts cheerful avoidance of serious questions, laughter ts an Important mgredtent to 
his lift>. · d "I 
When asked how he got the idea for the ABeCedary poems, he reph~ , don't know. Some were wt1itten years back, some last summer, some m the fall of Rome." He added that the parry was his first opportunity to meet the hook's illustrator, Perry Sww. .. ·r" ..-... . . 
The illustrations accompanyipg the alphabet display a mt~ture of mnocence and worldliness, like a fair-haired child with a knowing smtle. Perry Stow, a senior arr major. was recommended to the Ju_niper Press by Pr~fessor Douglas Kinsey of the An Department. 1-:'e was gtven the poems and tn less than a week created the provocative scenes and characters t~at perfect!y complement the verse. "It, was a real good experience, I'd be mterested m continuing as an illustrator." Howeve~, Stow stress~d that he wants ~o continue his education until he receives hts Master of Ftne Arts degree. Hts favorite medium is print making, although he is experienced in all aspects of 
an. . However, a book requires the labor of many people. Just ask the Jumper Press. . 
The Juniper Press was established by Profe~so~ Eli~abeth Christman m 1977 in order to expose stud~nts to the publts~mg mdustry. Prof~~sor Christman does not run the Juntper P~ess. She smtles and _calls he~s.elf, t~; chairman of the board. I am the advtsor, they are the acuve part1c1pants. 
The members of Juniper Press operate in a regular clas_s f:a!Uew?rk, acwrding to their publicity_director, Su~ Callan. The.co~pany,~s dtvtded mto such catagories as markettng, producuon, and publtcauon. Problems are solved as a class, we pool otir resources." The class uses a textbook, ~s ~ell as oral reports to acquaint· the class with all aspects of the pubhcauon industry. . . 
At rh·e beginning of the semesterJuniper Press ad":ertises for manu.scnp~~ "mosrlv bv word of mouth. About ten manuscnpts were _submttted, cuminued Callan. "'The choice for publication is based on audtence appeal and book length. Everyone in the class has to ~e~d ~.t least s~ver~l manuscripts, bur the e~itor.ial St!lff ma~es th~ final dectston. If there ts sttll no clear choice, the edttor-tn-chtef, Mtke Shtel~s, would have. the final Sl;lY· 
Once the material is selected production begms. Each class.me!llber IS a shareholder in the company, and. t~eir money ~nances pubhcat_ton. The manuscript must be sent out for pnnttng and bmdmg b~cause Jumper Prt:ss does not have the equipment to construct books, Th1s arrangement su,ttS· Professor Christman. "We would have to have_a grant or legacy for that. I, m oppos~~ to that be·causf' it diminishes the dtrectness of the work they re 
domg. · 1 
After rhe book is marketed, returns are used to pay any btl s the comp~ny has accumulated. After that1 the shareholders are p::ud. However, accordmg w Professor Christman, ''Making a profit is not our ail:!', the a~rp of the course is ro learn. Sometimes you karn more by makmg ~ts.ta~es. . 
Juniper Press is ope~ to any~ne but cl~ss space IS ltmtted. Prefere~c~ ts given to junior and semor Amen~a~ Studtes students.. For some, publts~mg will become a career for others tt ts a hobby. All the members of Juntper Press are gaining vaiuable business experience. . . 
ABeCedary, which is avallable ar the_Notre Dame Bookstore, ts Jumper Press's fourth book. It's first book, Quzck As A Dodo, was als? _wntten by Ralph Mcinerny. The combination ofJuniper Press's reve~ent d~ltgence and Mcinerny's diligent irreverence has produced a work whtch will occupy a 
special niche in the annals of humor. . . ..-___ ··­depth of man's language. Perhaps he is telling the reader that in our many words and sounds, language tends to lack meaning; 
fus! (or the fun ofit, 
·I stands for infinite ... 
Yet language is infinite; 
No machine can plumb 
l,ahorious and dumb 
Its depth offustian and wit. '' 
Besides critiqueing adult language, Mcinerny ventures to reflect on modern man through his own special de-scription of the alphabet. For example "S" is described as a once straight and erect"!" which became twisted and deformed by sin and age. So too, the reader can reflect on the child -righteous and upright who can become bent and distorted as sin an<l age infiltrate life. 
yet fatherly 
~r:~~/.;?::~:·:~-T-2!(..::·:···---~: ·.· 

~~~ 
lllust•..ted br P.L Stow 
The aurhor draws an analogy be­tween "S" and the devil -epitomy of sin. who destroved Eve in the garden. " ... A deceived Eve would learn to mourn when she found the 
devil spoke with forked tongue." 
ABeCedary is not totally preoccu­pied with criticizing man's language. The poerrv also playfully describes rhe alphabet. For the letter "C", Mcinerny adds a new twist to the Jat·k be Nimble nursery rhyme and poke:-s fun at adult's reverance for golf in the letter "G". The poetry is light and enjoyable, making the reader chuckle at the truth behind his own i_nadequecies and language defi­Ciennes. 
P.l.. Stow's delightful characteriza­tions add charm ro ABeCedary's creative humor. These unusual dniw-
She is not 10ut' Mary Leavitt 
''I started off with three strikes against me. I was a woman, a mother and a housewife." 
\X'ith this statement, Dee Shapiro, a N<·w York artist whose succe.ssful artistic endeavors include a painting in the Guggenheim Museum, sum­med up her problems as a woman in th<' field of an. Shapiro spent last week at Saint Mary's as a part of the Artist-in-Residence Series, newly de­veloped by the Art department this vear. · Shapiro said she feels that accep­tance of women as-artists has been slow. "The world has a tendency to look at the work of a female artist as having no lasting value when com­pared to rhe work of a man,'' she said. "Gallery owners look at female anises as weekend painters." . 
.\nxious to improve the posirion of women in the field ofart, Shapiro and otlwr interested artists opened a gall<·ry in Long Island. . 
''I started a co-operauve gallery along wirh some other artists who were interested in the women's an movement•" explained Shapiro. "We wanted to give women a chance 
w exhibit their work. It didn·r start 
out to be a 'feminist' gallery, but as· it 
turned our, most of the work we were 
mterested in was done by women.'. 
''People have a mental block against female artists," Shapiro observed. "You can still count the women who hold administrative positions in col­lege art departments." 
Shapiro said she feels that society has certain preconceived roles in mind for women. "A story I like to tell illustrates chis point,," she .said. 
•-~'.A .farber.and .soh are.inv..ulved.in' a-~-~Sljr_t,Qut my thoughtS:,:·. 
Beth Healy 

ings, placed selectively and appro­pnately, polish the poetry,--the more unique, the more attractive. The reader cannot overlook the ''virtuous Aardvark", "Oscar Davenport's" fantastic "etc." or the uniquely creative "Hannibal or Bust". Such imginative drawings can only en­hance the creative poetry. 
Bv far the most thought provoking and at the sal.te time most enjoyable lines are found in "To My Reader" and "Envoi" .. The depths of Mcinerny's philosophy are revealed. He writes of the child's need to learn the ABC's and yet remain "meek" and "mild". The "Envoi" reflects on time's passge where humanity searches for reality and "shapes her dreams with minute grains" of sand. Mcinerny ends "Envoi" b} writing that man can journey across earth, through time, if he reaches and takes hold of God. With God man returns home and comprehends eternity. 
AReCedary is a valid, insightful, enjoyable exploration of man's lang­uage. The antic alphabet successtully evokes laughter and invokes thought f, •r the reader. 

M is for Mephistopheles 
car accident and must be ta:..:.::n to tht> 
hospital. Upon arriving at the ho:-.pi­
tal. the surgeon on duty when show_n 
the:-bov savs. "I can't operate on this 
bov. He's ·mv son." 
She paused. "Puzzlint; story isn't 
it> for most part. people never guess 
that the surgeon is the bov's 
motlwr. · · 
Luckily though. things are easing up for fcmale arttsts. "People are stan­ing to look at the work rather than the person." Shapiro explained. "It is no longer necessary for a woman to compe1e wirh a man for acceptance as an artist." 
lronicallv enough. the type of an­work for· which Shapiro is famous stems from what was considered women's work. It is gePerally related to knirring or weaving and is known as dewrarive or pattern paiming. 
"!like to u:;;e J,)rs of color and work with geometric shapes." said Sha­piro. ''Some people ask me if I dip · · h · 1
yarn 111 pamt w_use on t .e ptctures.. don't, but I ltke the tdea that tt reminds one of crafts." ~~api~o was r~~ ~rst oftive ~rrisrs_ to vtslt Satnt Mary s 10 cooperation wnh the Arti<>r-in;Residence Seri~s. She said she feels that her visit was a 
SUlTess. 

"Young women artists need a ro:• model." Shapiro declared. "I've had a" great time here and find the students open, interested and serious about their chosen profession." 
Shapiro said she feels that interac­tion with the students has helped her just as much as the students. '"I'm really exc~red .~bout th~ fe~.d?ack I've been gettmg,. she satd.. I m ready to make _a maJo~ change 10 my work and the tnteracnon ha.~ helped me to 


-~ ---~­

~ 
The Observer 


There's nothing more revealing than a naked diamond. 
The diam:md you buy should have nothing to hide. That's why it's advisable to select your stone and mounting separately. 
Before a diamond is mounted, your jeweler can easily demonstrate its cut, color, clarity and carat weight to you. W1th his help, you will be able to see and compare the brilliance of different stones yourself. 
Brilliance is the key to beauty in diamonds. Always look for a diamond that has been cut and polished to bring out all of ds natural briffiance, one that meets the exact-~.. j
ing standards that have been established as ideal. These are called ideal cut diamonds. 
LK Ideal Cut Diamonds ens'Jre you of getting IDEAL cuT the most beauty and value. DIAMOND
JEWELER 

John M. Ma.rshalrs·· 
Diamond Import Company~ 
Lohbv St. Joseph Bu•ik Building Su11th Bend, Indiana 46601 2H7-1427 
For careers in 





steel operations, shipbuilding, engineering, sales, mining, and research 
Weneed engineerswho 
areturned 


onby 

Our recruiters will be on campus: 
November 28-29 
Bethlehem~ 
You make the difference 
---------------":""'7'""C 
I 
[continued from page 9] 
gress as "the kind of realistic reductions" that he was think­ing of. 
After the·speech, Reagan was 
Fernandez 

·cancels visit 
Republican presidential can­didate Benjamin Fernandez has 

·. cancelled his visit to Notre Dame,, originally scheduled for tomorrow. He will be meeting with Lopez Portillo, president of _Mexico, on that day. The Mock Convention Central Committee is trying to re­schedule Fernandez' speech for the first week in December. 
as•
BlEB 

Wednesday, November 14, 1979-page 8 
• 

to embark on a five-day, 12-city campaign swing that will take him to most of the early-pri­mary states. He also scheduled a news conference for Wednes­day morning in Washington. 
Reagan first sought the GOP nomination in 1968, and in 1976 he nearly wrested the prize from President Gerald R. Ford, carrying his challenge all the way to the floor of the GOP convention in Kansas City. 
Reagan's entry rounds out the long list of major-party challen­gers seeking to deny President Caner a second term. Demo­cratic contenders Sen. Edward Kennedy and California's cur­
[continued from page 5] 

with the refugees coming into ·south Bend. 
"There are 48,000 boat people 
coming into the United States, 
and most of these are entering 
the Midwest," said Keeley. 

"Four hundred will come to 
Sout" Bend before May 1, 
1980. ' 

Voltmteer Services seeks assis­tance in driving refugees to certain destinations, accompa­nying them to supermarkets, and tutoring them. This would require only an hour a week of the student's time, but would be a tremendous help to these new residents. Any interested student may volunteer by con­tacting Sr. Judith Anne Beattie at 7308. 
''The Volunteer Services are also hoping to sponsor a cloth­ing drive in conjunction with the halls during the week after Thanksgiving break,'' Keeley said. 
HPC Chairperson Ellen Dor­ney reported on the Board of Commissioners meeting. 
"We heardo a·,new·complimen,"' tary ticket policy presented· by the Student Union," said Dor­
ney. "I think we understand that SU workers do deserve compensation, but perhaps we could find a system that would be more appropriate. We brought this up before the HPC to try to come up with a new proposal, hoping that this would add to the alternative 
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE MAJORS LET US HELP YOU PLAN AHEAD TO BECOME A CPA 
Our successful students represent 
1/3oFUSA 
INDIANAPOLIS 317-846-5591 SOUTH BEND 219-287-8878 
CLASSES BEGIN DEC 10 
~~~~~~ 
CPA 




REVIEW 

• • Reagan 
rent governor, Edmund Brown Jr., kicked off their campaigns last week. 
.Carter plans to announce his candidacy for re-election on Dec. 4. 
The major Republican hope­fuls include George Bush and Sen. Howard Baker, as well as John Connally and Sen. Robert Dole. 
Also in the race are Reps. John Anderson and Philip Crane of Illinois, Sen. Larry Pressler of South Dakota, busi­nessman Benjamin Fernandez of Los Angeles and former Minnesota Gov. Harold Stassen. 
Catnbodia 
ideas available." 

The alcohol survey planned by the Notre Dame Psychological SC"rvices will be distributed after fhanksgiving. Anony­mous evaluations for each per­son surveyed will be available on the third t1oor of the Student Health Center. Students can pick up their evaluation by remembering the number prin­ted on their survey. 
The High School Visitation and Undergraduate Schools Committee asked the hall presi­dents to post a flyer announcing that a new round of high school visitation applicants will be interviewed soon. Application and interview appomtments may be obtained in the Admis­sions Office in the Administra­tion Building. Applications must be in by Nov. 21. Visits to the schools will be made during the Christmas holidays. Mem­bers of previous high school visi~ation teams need not apply agatn. 
I I I 


Airlift 
, -----------­
[continued from page 5] 
said. 

''There will be at least one" shipment immediately and if we need more we will do it," said Richard Holbrooke, assistant secretary of state for Far East and Asian affairs. He accom­panied Mrs. Carter on her JOUrney and helped prepare he1 report to the President. 
An emergency task force at the State Department was working yesterday to locate the necessary food and arrange for the flight to Bangkok. It has not been determined exactly when it will occur. 
Holbrooke said all of the money to implement the re­commendations comes out of Carter's $69 r:1illion pledge to help the refugees and other emergency funds. 
Mrs. Carter, who described the scenes in the refugee camps she inspected last week as "devastating" and "unbeliev­able,'' urged citizens to pledge financial assistance by calling a toll-free telephone number, (800)-221-2879. 
RESEARCH 
CANADA'S LARGEST SERVICE 
Send now for latest catalog. Thousands of termpapers on all subjects. Enclose SS.OO to cover return postage. 
ESSAY SERVICES 
67 Yonge St., Sullo 1504 Toronto, Ontario, Conedo 
MSE 1J8 
(416) 318-6549 


/ 

The Observer Wednesday, November 14, 1979 -page 9 
Behind the scenes Judicial Council represents stu4:lents 
Kathy Casey df'nts accused of hall offenses objectives and mechanics of the StaffReporter can refer complaints regarding judiCJa! system to its J -Boards. J -Board procedure or points of It is responsible for revision of In the battle for stud,ents' clarification to the council. . hall constitutions and of du Lac, 
rights at Notre Dame, the O'Hare noted that one of the and provides counsel in matters Judicial Council is the almost biggest problems in disciplin­concerning hall contracts. invisible network behind the ary action is that students It has also planned an alcohol 
scenes of disciplinary ac6on. seldom read du Lac. He said awareness program to alert While the Judicial Boards of that a lot of people could avoid J-Board chairpersons to the 
Hard to fmd'Records? 
Go to Just for the Record, 
whose new specialty 
recordmart (thousands of colkctors albums and cutouts) will open SOON at LOEWS Merchandise Mart 
Next to bus station, downtown
,...•................, 
each hall on campus are at least 
vaguely familiar to most stu­
dents, the farther-reaching 
ha~d of the JC is often ignored. 
J 1m 0'Hare Judicial Coordina­tor, serves as counsel for stu­dents in disciplinary hearings. In cases of University offenses, the student has the right to undergraduate representation only. Lawyers or law school students are off-limits. The counciL therefore, must help the student to present his cas~: O'Hare said that he did not know what the policy regarding legal representation might lbe at other schools in the country. 
Aside from his personal ap­pearance with the accused stu­dent at University proceedings, O'Hare said that the colllncil provides direct assistance to the student as a source of informa­tion as to what has previously· occurred and could rossibly happen regarding !ega proce­dures at the University. 
Although flyers that have re­cently gone out to all students imply that the council is directly involved only in University .offenses, O'Hare said that stu­difficulty by knowing in ad­vance just what constitutes a violation at the University. 
The J C consists simply of J ~Board chairpersons from all of the residence halls. It has existed here for two years, since October of 1977. O'Hare said that while originally only some of the halls on campus enjoyed a firmly establisned J -Board, increasmg emphasis on the value of the boards has now led to the establishment of one in every hall. Otherwise, O'Hare said, the objectives and mechanics of the Council have remained basically unchanged since their institution. He noted that one of the consisten­cies throughout has been an occasional problem with board chaiq;~ersons' attendance of council meetings. 
According to O'Hare, the council wants primarily to be a service organization to stu­dents. The JC serves students directly in disciplinary hearings and indirectly throu~h its J­Boards. The Council defines the roles of chairpersons in each hall and explains the possibility that many of their cases could be subtly tied to alcohol. 

The council has also recom­mended to the Board of Trus­tees an increase in J-Board members to allow for two alternate chairpersons. 

Observer 
corrects errors 
AJ? item in Monday's Obser­ver 'Concerning Saint Mary's , policy for dropping classes con­tained some errors, The item stated that classes may only be dropped within seven days without goin~ on record, but the actual waiting period is five weeks. The story also noted that failing grades will not be averaged 10 after the five week period, but in fact they will. The Observer regrets these errors. 
Third time around 




Reagan declares candidacy 
NEW YORK (AP) -Former California Gov. Ronald Reagan, saying the nation "hungers for a spiritual revival," yesterday declared his candidacy for the 1980 Republican Presidential nomination. 
Reagan, in his third bid for the job, entered the crowded GOP race as the acknowledged front­runner. 
In a taped and televised speech in which he declared his candidacy, Reagan repeated his controversial 1976 proposal to shift some functions of govern­ment away from Washington to state and local authorities. 
"I shall regard my election :as proof that the people of the United States have decided to set a new agenda and have recognized that the human spirit thrives best when goals are set and progress can be measured in· their achieve­ment," he said. 
Reagan, a 68-year-old former movie star, was the lOth man to declare his candidacy for the 1980 GOP nomination. 
His 30-minute announcement speech was taped on Monday and broadcast last night to millions. Simultaneously, Rea­gan took the podium to deliver the same speech in person to a $500-a-ticket Republican fund­raiser at the New York Hilton. Campaign aides said the New York site was picked to demon­strate that the Californian in­tends to campaign vigorously on both coasts. 
In his speech, Reagan sound­ed a number of often-heard Republican themes, and he repeated his 1976 proposal for a transfer of some government functions. 
"We must review the func­tions of the Federal government to determine which of those are the proper province of levels of government closer to the people. The :.fedeF~l govern­ment has taken on functions it 
'---~ .......,. ...............•........... ·-··· ,~. ~--·..· .,..:.,:., ·•'lt....,.... ~--" .. ·~·.w.-..·w."~ot..w..1;,),.'1.•.• ·~, 
:  Renee  :  
:  Please Dance. with me  •  
••:  this Weekend :•leo Duggan :  

~ 
caucJio 1pcclcall111, Inc. 
and Electro-Voice Loudspeakers 
Preseets: 

Nautilus Records 112 Speed Master Pressing Of 
HEART'S "Dreamboat 
. Annie" 
401 N. Michigan St. THURS.,NOV. 1~ AT 7 P.M. 
' Featurmg a parr of Electro-Voice loudspeakers withsOUth Bend, IN• s-pecial EV sub-woofers. · 
never intended to perform and a leader who will unleash their which it does not perform great sttength and remove the "!ell," he said. roadblocks government has put 
in their way. 
In 1976, Reagan accompanied 


ATTENTION OFF-CAMPUS
''I want to do that more than ·that proposal with a price tag, anything I've ever wanted," hesaying that more than $90 

STUDENTS
added. "And it's somethingbillion ·could be cut from the that I believe with God's help Ifederal budget. He said tax can do.'"
resources also should be shifted If your ~cJlise or apartm~nt has been ripped-~ff and"I believe this nation hungers 

to state an~J.ooaJ.>.govelfn~nts, 

you don r want to let tt happen agam or 1f youfor a spiritual revival, hungersyestefd"ay, he did not say how 
haven't been ripped-off and you W<>u'r:lli.ke to keep it much money he thought would to once again see honor 
that way, please attend a speciai meeting de:altngplaced above political expedien­be saved. 
with this serious problem. · · cy, to see government onceReagan also called for a tax cut 
When: Thursday, Nov. I "irh. 6:00pm · t0 fight inflation, for sharp cuts again the protector of our 
Where: North East Neighborhood Association Fire im Federal spending, for the liberties; not the distributor of House (cornc·r of ~.D. and South Bend Avenues) ingifts and privilege,'' Reaganlifting of price controls on the up:-,1ai1" meeting room. 
said.
oomestic energy and for in-

Reagan expressed concern
creased defense spending. . 

over the nation's double-digitAs former President Gerald R. 
Housing. Administrators and the cops will 
F:ord had proposed near the end inflation and declared, ''The 
of his term, Reagan advocated key to restorin& the. health.·of 
be there. We got to tell them about the 
statehood for Puerto Rico "if th.e economy lies 10 cuttm_g the· people of Puerto Rico vote taxes." He did not specity 
for statehood in their coming what kirid of tax cut he would 
current .O.C crime situation because; •t .....;·, 
seek but he cited several Re­The conservative Californian publican tax-cut bills in Con-referendum." 
has got to stop!
also called for developing closer ties with Canada and Mexico by forming what he termed a North American accord. He Sfl.id he could not say exactly what form this accord would take, but that he would propose that Canada and Mexico send special representatives to Washington "to sit in on high-level planning sessions with 4s'' on issues concerning the future of the continent. 
!"It is time we stop thinking of .our nearest neighbors as for­qigners,'' Reagan said. 
While not mentioning Presi­dent Carter or other leaders by name, Reagan blasted what he said was a ''failure of our ltaders to establish rational goals and give our people something to .order our lives by:'' 
"I cannot and will not stand back and see this great country destroy itself,'' Reagan said. Me cited "bewilderment at how qur defensestrengthhas deteri­orated,'_'_ p.pd_ ,s.ajd, '.'Tp~ .citj­zen,$ ofthhl gf~~t nasfm(-W'a,'ilt~~. 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, November14, 1979-page 10 
''They have the ability to 
• • .Purdue 
[<"rmtitlltt'dfrom page 11] 
hard hitting, tough games for us. We fold our squad thiJ.t the last three games would be the wughest three in a row we would have rhis season,'' he said. "I don· t chink there's anv question of char. Now with Indiana. with rhe rivalry involv­ed. it will be the roughest of all three.·· 
The Boilermaker'-'. 6-1 in the t· tg T('n ~1nd 3-2 overall. visit I ('t' C.:orsu's Hnt>siers. 5-::! and ·. ;_ in the :mnual Old Oaken Hurkt·r hattie ar indiana's \k;n•mal Sr:.;dium 
··~,, ljuestlll·n. chis is "the b1ggt"·-t game we II play.·' Yttung :-.aid of the fierce nvalry. 
'Indiana is a fine team. r.~ertainly rhe rivalry this year -lwuld he Jreat with rwo fine teams an rwo reams that probablv will go to a bowl 
~ame.·· 

Young said early in the ,l·ason, with losses at UCLA :111d Minnesota. and even a lackluster performance in beat-
g Northwestern, the BoiJer­
kers were n~t "a very good 
1ugh team. 
~~ 

\trer the Minnesota loss we ed to improve and became 1gher team. Our defense p1ayed better because a lot 
, ,'l~yers have improved from .• nunes. 
"The last two weeks, we've been a tough, hard-nosed team. Our season in many respects is similar to Indiana," Young continued. "I think in mid-
season teams either get better or worse, and I think both Purdue and Indiana got better.'' 
TLc Hoosiers have shown an "outstanding offense" behind quarterback Tim Clifford, Yo!-lng said. 
Swimmers need 
•


ttmers 

move the football. They've had 500 yards each of the last two weeks. We know they also have some fine running backs and a line that had done a fine job protecting them. Defensively, they've been able to make the big play and have made a lot of interceptions.'' 
An Indiana victory, coupled with an Ohio State triumph over Michigan, would give the Hoosiers a three-way tie with the Boilermakers and Wolver­ines for second place in the Big Ten. If Purdue and Michigan win, there would be a three-way time for first among the Boilermakers. Wolverines and BuL keves. 
All four. reams are hoping for post-season bowl bids. 
·'There's alwavs a lot on the line when Purdue and Indiana. pia\." Young said. "This year, with rwo nf the: best teams in the Big Ten and two potential huwl reams. make it that much more of a big game. But our players aren · t going to be playing for a bowl. they'll be playii1g to bear Indiana.·' 
Landry ponders over Cowboys' play 
DALLAS (AP) Dallas Cowboys Coach Torn Landry, who now is batting below .500 in Monday night games, said Tuesday he wishes his National Football League team could play the entire game the way it does in the two-minute offense.  Landry said, "It's hard to say why we can't play until· 'F" ... t behind and get into our minute offense. Maybl. just have. ~o be in a despt · sttuauon. The injury situation was good for the Cowboys Tuesday.'  coming up for us with two games almost back-co-back. Our destiny is in our hands." Dallas now is 8-3 trailed closely by Philadelphia and '~'--;;hington at 7-4. fhe division race is dead­even now even though we have  
''Thanks to the Cowboys we·ve got a new race in the National Conference Eastern Division." said a red-eyed Landry. who showed up for his weekly press luncheon with only a few hours sleep after the Cowboys lost to Philadelphia .'.1-21 Monday .night. "/\Iunday nights are nor the he-;t outings for us,·· said  Landry said quarterback Roger Staubach was "very quesFionable'' for the game against Washington because of a bruised thigh. "He'~ sore and mav nor be able ((i work out thts. week,·· -,aid Landry. ''Jr may be game time before Rogn decides whl't her he can ·go. Alsu. (dcfen~ive tackle) Randy White has a t(Jot injury. He could  a one-game lead.·' said Ltmdry. "We have to plav Philadelphia again on t1.1~· roatfand Washing­ton tWICe. Landrv Said it seems th~H his plaver~ have tu face adversitv bd~m:· the\ can get f'>lling.' Dallas has won three_games in .rlw la"t twn mitHlles and almosr pulled out ·he Eagle game \londa~ night. _  
Landry, who has a ;--"' record in tlw Il<tt ionalh televised jousts. "\Vc·'\e made it interesting  barl'h-walk todav. ·' Landn· s;ud h;1lth~lck Prt"ston Pearson. who has missed nvo  "Some of out plan:rs h;tve no tPlltTpiion what it is like to play on a l<>ser, '' c;;~jJ Landrv.  
again. It was a must dis­appoinring game. It seems we can· 1 stand prosperity but ir happens to all teams. It even happened ro Pittsburgh._ ..  wet'ks with a leg injury, will be out of action through the Houston game Thanksgiving Da\'. :,This IS a tough stretch  ··!"he}' think we· can ah\;ays 'orne hal k. Sometimes you wtsh rhe\· all had !wen there (on los1ng ream:') to .st·e v..:hat it's like."  

Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau 
"CURRENTLY SUFF13RJNG 
FRDM 513Vf3R£ 5HOK!AGE3 
OF FOO/J, FRESH WATGR., 
MWICAL 51/PPt/&5 ANO 

GNGUSH Tl3ACH/3R.5. CHO/.£RA EPIOE.MICAL­50 5££M5 IMMINENT." ~==I 

Molan.ty 

by Michael Molinelli 
CUELK THE BLoNDE, IN ANV BAR, THE BEST THIS IS IIER 71-/IRI> TJM[; SEAT IN 11-lE HOU5E 15 TONIGHT BY TJ.I£ LADI£5 ROOM 



Those interested in timing varsity meets for the ~97?-1980 swimming season are mv1ted to attend an organizational meet­ing. Saint Mary's students a~e to meet tonight at 7:00 p.m. 111 Le Mans Hall. Notre Dame students are to meet on the second floor of the Rockne memorial tomorrow at 6:30 
p.m. 


rnrrce 

commr:m~r:m 
100 Center Shoppin Complex 
ph . 255-8661 
Party Trays Bargain Prices 
and 10% off with Student ID 
ACROSS 26 Headgear 57 Money: abbr. 23 Alliance 1 Yawn makers 58 A Bronte letters
The Daily Crossword 
5 Pielet 30 Condition 59 Oratorio 24 Horse 9 Coffee 33 Inferior solo commands 13 Adjective 35 NY school 60 Peasant in 27 Sommer 
suffix 36 Delivers a India 28 Nothing: Fr. 14 Humdinger knockout 61 Tennis Rod 29 Voiceless 15 Singer Yma punch 62 Fuss consonant 16 Bloomer 40 Varnish 63 And 30 WWIItown 
or comer ingredient 64 MacMurray 31 Comparative 17 Too suave 41 Face: sl. of movies word 18 One used in 42 Correct 65 Chan tic-32 Ancient 
a frame-up texts leer's chest 19 Volume: 43 Ari harem 33 Respite 
abbr. 46 Crushing 66 Valley 34 Exclama­20 -boy! snake tions 21 Socials 47 "-the sun DOWN 37 Large nail 22 Losing shines" "The-Ar-38 Backyard 
one's wits 53 Courteous chipelago" fence 25 "Have you 56 "-Well 2 Historic sounds -wool?" That ..." Texas fort 39 Eastern 3 Page of nursemaid 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: music 44 Showed 4 Before pleasure 5 Kind of 45 Demigod 
smile 46 Club rules 6 Loos 48 Bret 7 Race 49 Foreigner 8 Attempt 50 Pastoral 9 Prowse of poem 

pictures 51 Not tied 10 To-(unan-down _ 

imously) 52 John of 11 Nautical music 
rope 53 Riches 12 Deeds 54 Sharif 15 Fun 55 Not on tape 

© 1979 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. 
20 Spiro 59 Residue All Rights Reserved 
21 Pepys opus 60 Dustcloth 


.. 
The Observer -. SportsBoard Wednesday, November 14, 1979-page 11 
Hockey 
COLLEGE POLL 

This weekly college hockev coaches poll, as compiled by radio station WM PL, 
with first-place voted records and total points:  in  parenthesis,  
1. Michioan (7) 7-1 2. No. Dakota (3) 4-2  89 87  

1 3. Cornell 0-0  78  
4. Minnesota 4-3  59  
; 5. Notre Dame 4-3  46  
, 6. Michigan Tech 5-3  38  
7. Boston U. 0-0  36  
8. Wisconsin 4-3  32  
9. No. Michigan 5-3  13  
(tie) New Hampshire 0-2  13  
(tie) Providence 0-0  13  
Others  receiving  votes:  Clarkson.  

Boston College, Dartmouth, and Denver. 








Classifieds
• I 
Notices .' 
. Used Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9·7. Ralph Casperson, 13Q:3 Buchanan Rd. Niles. 683-2888. 
There will .be a meeting for anyor ~ mterested m runmng a Republic;,,' campa1gn for the mock convention on Wed. Nov. 14 at 7 PM in 2-D LaFortune. 
Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 277-0296. 
IMPROVE YOUR GRADES' Send $1.00 tor your 306-page catalog of collegiate research. 10,250 topics listed. Box 25097G. Los Angeles, California, 90025. (213) 477-8226. 
COZMIK PRODUCTIONS HAS "THE HUMANS"' Available now for dances and parties. Mick -8212. 
Morrissey Loan Fun1J Student loans. $20-$200. One percentinterest. Basement of LaFortu,le. 11:30­
12:30. M-F. 
ST. LOUIS CLUB RIDE LINE: Drivers and riders call 7374 tor arrangements. Dues should be paid as soon a> possible. 
Kennedy campaign meeting Sunday, Nov. 18 at 4:00 P.M .. Little Theatre, 
LaFor;une. 

Lost &Fc,und 
-Lost: Vivitar camera with sentimentai; pies still inside on North Quad.· if found, please return t~ Anne (1261) 128 B.P. 
Lost: 3 color slides -probably near the 
Huddle. Call 6865. 
Silver. metal framed glasses. Bob-6718. 
Lost' Tl-55 calculator. Call Mark #1062 
Reward. 
Lost: Gold link bracelet. Sentimental value Reward offered -Call Nancy #8034. 
Lost: Man·s long, tan trench coat at 
Dillon Formal. Please call 157£1 with info. 
-

Gold charm bracelet on campus 6n October 27th. Finder please ccntact Judy Gates. 3003 Rexford Way, Lou1sville. Ky. 
40205. Reward II ' 
Lost. Silver Rolex wristwatch at Stepan BB courts on 10/?9. Reward. Ple~se call Chris 1852. 
Lost: Texas Instruments SR51-II. Calcu­la.tor in Eng. bldg. Reward. Gall 7374. 
Lost' N.D. class ring, 1981. lmtials ' 
D. M.A .. reward. Call Dave 84:32. 

For Rent 
Furnished 4-6 bedroom house for rent. Now or next semester. Walking distance to campus. Call 272-1729 after 5:00. 
Need amale to take over lease at Campus View. 31ovely apartment maws. $100 a month. Call Pete 277·2723. 
Bedroom Share kitchen. 2 bath. $75/month and 1/3 utilities. Bus service. 233-2900. 

Wanted 
Need 4 EAGLES tix. Will pay $40-$50 
per pair of GOOD seats. Joe 232-7456. 
Need riders to N. Y.C for Thanksgiving break. Leave N.D. Tuesday night-return to N.D. Sunday night. 3324. 
Riders needed for Thanksgiving break. Youngstown, East Liverpool, Steuben-ville area. Call Rich 232-2382 after 11 :00 P.M. 
Need ride to Cleveland for Thanksgiving break. Rico-8642. Will share Elxpenses. 
I need a ride to Milwaukee for Thanks­gjving. Mike 8385. 
Wanted: Vivacious girl --brilliant conversationalist looking for ride to Philadelphia area Friday, No11. 30 for Army-Navy game. Call Anne 1261. 
I need a ride to 0' Hare Airport on 11 /21 between 12:30 and 3:00. Please call Marcia at 7126. 
Need ride to Boston to announce my candidacy over Thanksgiving. Will share usual. call Mike -288-1376. 
I have room, rider to Columbus, Ohio ­Thanksgiving. Dave 3637. · 
Need ride to Milwaukee for Thanks­giving. Can leave any time after 12:00 noon on Tuesday. Katie 8142. 
Need 2-4 floor tickets for Eagles Concert. Please call 232-4462 after 5:30. 
Hey New Jerseyans: Anyone going home for Thanksgiving? I have ride home. Need ride back out to SMC. Please call Angie 4-1-5465. 
Buspersons and dishpersons needed ­male or female. Apply at the Carriage House, 24460 Adams Road, 272-9220. 
Need a ride to and/or from Pittsburgh area over Thanksgiving break. Will share expenses. Please call Mark. #1067. Need a ride to and/or from Pittsburgh area over Thanksgiving ~:eak. Will share expenses. Please call Mark 1062. 
Need ride to Minneapolis for Thanks­giving. Please call Mary Ann at 4-1-4347. 
Rid~rs needed to Omaha or any interme­diate points. Leave Sun. Nov. 18. Call 3173. 
Paying $10 men's, $5 women's for class rings. Any condition. Will arrange pick-up. Phone toll-free 1-800-835-2246 anytime. 
Need ride to Colorado for Thanksgiving. Call Mark 4663. 
Need GA tickets for Clemson game. Call Doug 6740. 
Need ride to Florida for Thanksgiving. Please call Chris 1852. 
Need a ride to Wisconsin, Mad., Milw., Janesville, anywhere please. Can leave Tue. at 2:30. 
Need ri~ ~sburWl-ta.ljrom break. Share-ex enses. Dave 8859. · 
Need ride to Boston for Thanksgiving. Can leave morning of 20th -will share expenses. John 3588. 
Need ride to Buffalo for Thanksgiving. Cann leave Wednesday. Call Ray 1762. 
BEACH LOVERS' Part time student sales representative position available for Spring Semester. Job involves promoting high quality sun trips on campus for commission and free travel. Call or write for an application. Summit Travel, Inc., Parkade Plaza, Suite 11, Columbia, Missouri. 65201. (800) 325-0439. 

For Sale 

One United Discount ticket (140). Call Joe 3598. 
FOR SALE: Two L78-15 belted snow tires. $50. Call Steve 8661 or 1432. 
A Classic AR manual turntable with an Ortolan VMS 20 Mk II cartridge. For sale -Best Offer-Call AHAB at 8857. 
For sale: 78 VW bus champagne edition. C. B., auxiliary heater, priced to sell. Call 232·4060 after 5 P.M., anytime weekend. 
1973 Plymouth Duster. Good condition, low mileage. Best offer. Call 288-9908 before 3. 
Selling United Airlines half fare coupon, $30.00. 7550, 272-7180. 
One United airlines half price coupon tor sale. Make an offer. 272-8857. 
For Sale: 1/2 fare coupon. Best offer call 4-1-4161. 
One United Airlines coupon for sale. Call Barry at 2752. 
One United half tare coupon ($35). Call P.J. 3402. 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) -In the past two weeks,

Purdue 

Purdue's Boilermakers have matured into ''the toughest team we've had smce I've beut
.to face here,' · Coach Jim Young sai -1 Tuesday. Against Iowa two weeks ago and Michigan last week, Purdue at last showed the intensity that had been lacking 

Indiana 

at times earlier in the season, Young said in his weekly tele­phone conference. · Saturday's 24-21 victory over the Wolverines may have been mor~ dramatic, but the triumph at Iowa took as much effort, he said. 
''Both those games were 
[continued on page 10] 

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Obltrvtr office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifiedsmust be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 
One-way United plane ticket to N.Y.'s LaGuardia airport. Must be used by a ~irl before Dec. 15. $50 or best offer. 
all Patty 2278. 
Invest in yourself instead of a landlord! Excellent investment opportunities avail­able now in duplex and triplex real estate. 
Your tenants will make your mortgage payments while you live free. Call today to learn the rest of the advantages: Joyce Kevorkian 232·1193 or ERA -Equity Realty Assoc. 256-0263. 
1978 Rabbit, excellent condition. Great road car. Sun roof, cruise control. air, FM-AM radio, large tires. Inquire 255-2223. 
Eagles tix: 1 ticket on main floor center. Sell for regular price. -Tim 8793. 
One United half price ticket. $30. Call Shaun 7992. 
For Sale: 2 Clemson G.A. tix. Call Andy at 1022. 
Unlted Airlines 112 tare coupons $35.00. Cat! 277-1387. 


Tickets 
Need 2student tickets for Clemson. Call 
Kathy Patton at 7757 from 9-5 Monday-
Friday or at home 233-2624. 
Need up to 5 Clemson G.A. tix. Will pay big $$. Please c:all Darcy 232-7376! 
Need 3 Clemson student tix. Nick 233-6249. 
Need 2 GA Clemson tix. Please help'Call Kitty (SMC) 5413. 
Help' Need 2 GA Clemson tix. CalL (SMC) 5202 or 4708. 
Need 1student or G.A. ticket to Clemson. Call John 1840. 
Clemson tickets (4) need desperately $$ Call 1735 -Randy. 
DESPERATE' Need 2G.A. Clemson Tix. Big$$. Marie 4-1·4677. _ 
Need 1, 2, 3. or 4 student or G.A. tickets for Clemson. Call Ed 1222. 
Clemson tix needed G.A. or Student. Call Dan. 8479. 
I need G.A. tickets to Clemson. Please call Ken 1821. 
Help!' Desperately need 2G.A. Clemson Tixll Call Susan 4-1-4796. 
Desperately need 2 GA tickets to ClemSfJn' Please call 7831. 
WANTED: GA tickets for any home games. Must be two or more together. Call 287-3311 Danny · Joe. 
Need 2 G.A. and 1 student ticket for Clemson. Will pay$$$. Call Jim at 1161. 
Wanted -one student t(cket to the Soviet basketball game. Call Boris at 2253. 
Wanted-one ticket for the Eagles concert Friday night. Call Tom at 1022. 
Clemson GA's many needed: Groups together or at least in pairs; call collect anx daX after 9:00P.M. [116]586-8690. 
Help' I (together)  need call  two DICk  Clemson 8309 any  G.A.'s night  
between 11 and 12.  

Desperately need many student and G A tickets to Clemson. Call Joe 1644. 
Wanted: GA's for Clemson. Will pay top $,.call 1865. 
Need 4 student tickets to Clemson -call John (3689) or Pat (3708). 
A free poster of Aunt Bea (from Andy Griffith) plus money for a Clemson ticket. Call Mike at #1653. 
Will pay dearly for four Clemson G.A.'s. Call Rick at 8739. 
2 Clemson G.A. tickets. Best offer. Call Mark 6435. 

For Sale: 2 E:agles tix (Section 10. row 2). Best offer. Call John 1360.  Maureen and Beth. That's enough lor entries  ·  what';, lor  
Need 2 Clemson GA's and 2 student tix .  dess  
John 232-0550.  M~ureen and Beth.  
Two Clemson 277-5261.  GA's  needed.  Call  fhat's enough lor entrees -wnat s for dessert? Gus(Chad)  ,  

Need Two GA Clemson tix. Please call Diane #7906. 
I need 2 Clemson GA's 4579. 
. 
I need 2 or 3 GA Clemson tickets. Please call Dave 8782. 
Need 2 G.A. !':le>mson tix Please help. Call 4-1-4280. 
Please sell me 4 GA Clemson tickets. Call 277-5261. 
Need at least 4 GA and 4 student Clemson tickets. Call 3328. Please!! 

Personals 
Ying-­
Glad to see you've finally joined the ranks of the "mature." Happy 20th' Celebrations are planned ... 
Love. Katie. Mons, Wee Bod, Simmer, and Sue Hoet 
Peggy McDaniel-­Happy Belated Birthday. MB 
SMC Sophomores-Are you interested in helping with SOPHOMORE PARENTS WEEKEND??? 11·so, join the Production Crew for the show. Call Anita (4280),Trish (4367), Cathy (5719) and get involved! 
Scholastic Ed Board: brief important meeting, Wed. 6:~. Pictures may be taken so you must be there. 
BASEBALL FANS­Don't forget -final game ol the 1979 World Series' Sat. Nov. 17th, at 9:30 in SMC' Clubhouse. 
Attend Transactional Analysis instruc­tiona! group. Donation. Call Jim, (616) 684·5985. 
Whose birthday shall it be today? 
REJOICE, for it SHALL be GINA Pratt's 21st birthday' 
Indeed. she SHAN'T be a child any longer. 
Mary Jo: So are you going to celebrate your birthday the "Irish-Catholic" way?Ryan 
Matt R., 
Where have you been this semester? 1 miss you a lot -let's get back together again. Please meet me Saturday night, 9 p.m., at the Library on the 8th floor, under our favorite desk., 
Love, 
Leeeooo
... 

Rich. 
Heard you like going to formals with girls who shed. By the way curly hair is in--not straight. 
Stranger 

Yogi and Goebel. Don't forget to wear your Calvin Klein suits next time, and don't stand up until you have ordered a shrimp cocktail. Hope you had a good time, we did. 
Mary P. and Weezie 

Mr. Bill-It is so nice to have you around' Good · luck tomorrow. --K. 
OPERATIONS CROSSROADS There wil be a meeting Nov. 14 at 7:30 in tt11 
Volunteer  Services  Office  for  thos1  
interested  in  the  African  Crossroad:  
program.  

Campus Kennedy '80 Headquarters is In my room 35 Sorin Hall. Stop by and visit or call Paul at 8451. 
Greg-I see you did it 'your way" and I did it 
"my way."  Eric  -did you do it ·'your  
way?"  Susette "Sindtra"  

Paula, Boy, do I love your hair. That hair-do makes you look so romantic. Remember Saturday. Love. J.C. 
Neasy, 
Some of the darkest places hold the 
brightest lights. You've been a thought­

• ful candle in my life. Keep gleaming, Sunshine 
Love, Late-nile Torty 
TO NINA (better known as Nim-Rose): Best wishes for an "instant" birthday ­just add alcohol and wait 3 minutes Have a mega-good time (but do try to maintain!) 
Love, The Gang Denise, Colleen, Susan, Juppy, and Betsy. 
BA You're the Best' The CZAR 
FERGUSON AND WAYMER 
We hope you guys aren't planning to play pro football You'll NEVER make it. Ha! ha!ha! 
The Angels 
Floyd, I sti II love you. Avenging Annie 
Angelique, Chicago is my kind of town. Your family are my kind of people. Th~nks for sharing. 
Jet'aime, Michele 
Memoirs of a road trip, Broken window · 3 stitches. antenna, The Lap, Skoal, The Oak Ridger. Ex-Townie, Heineken, Flamers. Llama Nose hits, Vicki (GB?) Sliders, 3 lost hours. Deputy Sheriff, Rocky Top--The Albino Apes will ride again. 
Hoagie--Thanx for agreat weekend 1 I appreciate the many walks home. You're asweetie. 
Love MRK 
Ann McCaughey, Want to go om this Saturday? Call 8927 to reply. 
To Patti I love-a-challenge Field: You and H. H. H. have been great roommates. Happy bil thday' 
Cathy 
Barb. You are the best athletic Supporter I ever had. 
Coac11 
P.S. This Friday? 
Mary Jo, And whose personals are you Db· serving today? Happy Birthday. Cindy 
Perrier· Saki to 'em. The Bear Facts (19/' 'I 
Come enjoy an evening with Livingston Taylor, Wednesday, Nov. 14. 
Campus/New York is coming''! 
1can love both fa1r and brown. Her !rom the country, and from the town, 1 r.;m love her and her and you and you, I can love any so she be not true. Bul I lldV<l luiu li '~111. ShlLe you will be true, You shall be true to them, who are false to you. 

"'j 
I 
r 

___ , 
l 
l j 

~ 

Wednesday, November 14, 1979 -page 12 

Wrestlers enter anniversary year w-ith talent, experience, optimistn 
by Bill Marquard face their first test of the new sophomore Curt Rood. The Sports Wn'ter season this weekend, when Sturgis, Mich., native posted a they compete at the third 6-9 record for the Irish at I26 
In this, the silver anniversary annual Michigan State Invita­last year, including a third-­
year of Notre Dame wrestling, tional on Friday and Saturday, place finish in the Wheaton 
Irish coach Ray Sepeta has November I6 and I7. Invitational. assembled what could be the The Irish finished a disap­Senior tri-captain Dave DiSa­finest squad ever to grace the pointing eighth at Michigan bato will anchor the lineup at 
Irish mats. State last year after placmg I34. He finished 28-II last year Yet Sepeta's unenviable task fifth in the inaugural tourna­and was fourth at 126 at if to weld a combination of ment. This year's affair fea­Michigan State. The Colum­experienced upperclass depth tures host and defending bus, Ohio, native is second on and raw underclass talent into a champion Michigan State, Notre Dame's all-rime win list 
winning unit. along with Northern Michigan, with 73 career victories.. And the fifth-year head coach Western Michigan, Central The other Irish rri-caprains 
is guardedly optimistic. "Cer­Michigan and Grand Valley fill out the field at I42 and I50. tainly I am excited about our Stare College and Junior Col­Senior Chris Favo (Oakmont, prospects this season, but I am lege. Penn.) will handle the lighter also wary. While we have five chores while classmate Mike good seniors returning, we also Wilda (Norfolk, Va.) goes at the
'We '11 undoubtedly do

have a lot of underclassmen upper weight. · Favo was 9-7-I who certainly have the creden­better than last season , in I978-79 while Wilda, 13-8-I tials for success but have yet to for the campaign, finished
but I am also aware

be tested on the collegiate fourth at I58 pounds at Michi­level. gan State last year.
that it will take our

"We'll undoubtedly do bet­Junior AI Mattaliano (Koko­ter than last season, but _I am youngsters time mo,Ind.) is slated to start at also aware that it will take our 158, although he has missed the youngsters time to develop-­to develop . . . ' last week of practice with an 
Seniur Rid Branning [above], along with Btl/ Hanzlik. will infection. Mattaliano was 4-7
that could be the key this 
lhmdle the guard positions for the lnsh in their season season.'' "Although we haven't had a before a knee injury sidelined opener .Jgamst the Soviet National Team tomorrow night at Coming off an 8-I2 dual-meet lor of time to prepare, I him last year.8:00p.m. !Photo bv fohn Macor] am 
campaign last year, the Irish looking forward to this weekend Freshman Paul DeBaggis has from the standpoint of the cracked the lineup at I67. The experience," explains Sepeta. Cleveland Heights High SchoolNational League ''The matches are six mtnutes product finished fourth in the instead of the regular eight, Ohio State championships last 
and eve~yone wrestles three year.
Hernandez, Stargell share MVP award 
matches. Sophomore John Iglar gets Opening for the Irish at 118 the nod at I77. The Cmcinnati, NEW YORK (AP) -Keith with 118, batting .308 with 34 third baseman Larry Parrish will be freshman Mark Fisher, a Ohio, sophomore was 14-21 last 
Hernandez of the St. Louis home runs. with I28 points and Knight wtih product of Michigan's Buchan­season at I67. Cardinals and Willie Stargell of The co-winners are both first 82. an High School, who finished Junior Dave Rodgers rounds the Pittsburgh Pirates finished basemen, Stargell moving to Last year's winner, Dave second, third and fourth in the our the Irish squad at I90, with tn a tie for the National League that position from the outfield Parker of Pittsburgh, finished state finals the last three years. no heavyweight wrestler avail­
Most Valuable Player Award late in his career to save wear lOth with 56 points. Following Fisher will be able to the Irish yet. Tuesday--the first time in the and tear on his legs, and 49-yearhisroryof the prestigious Hernandez, a Gold Glove· win­
award that it was shared by two ner as on of the slickest fielders players. in the game. 
Buckeyes, Wolves prepare for showdown
The results were announced The BBWAA committee was 
by the Baseball Writers Associ­composed .Jf two writers from arion of America, which con­each of the league's I2 cities. 
ANN ARBOR, Mich, (AP) -"You've got to understand, victory over Iowa. Mic.higan isduns the annual balloting. Besides his 10 first place votes, Woody Hayes won't be on the the players are the same," he 8-2 overall but 6-I in the BigBoth players finished with 2I6 Stargell had three seconds, sidelines, but Michigan Coach sai~: "only a year older, that's Ten after losing 24-2I to Purdue points. Outfidder Dave Win­four thirds, one fourth and two 
field of San was Bo Schembechler says his pres­alL .1: ··• ,·,:, •. r:··· last weekend. Since Purdue
Diego third sixths. Hernandez received ence still will be felt when Ohio ''The quarterback (sopho­also is 6-I in the conference,with 155 points on the basis of four first, eight seconds, seven State rakes on the Wolverines more Art Schlichter) is a year Michigan must defeat theI4 poinrs for a first place vote, thirds, two fourths, and three in their traditional Big Ten older. That makes all passin~ Buckeyes Saturday if they hope nine for second, eight for third, fifths. 
football windup Saturday. attacks look better--the matun­to gain a share of the B1g Ten ere. 
Winfield received four first The Buckeyes are the same ty of the quarterback." title. 
Srargell received 10 first place place votes and Cincinnati third type of team under first-year Schembechler is 5-4-I a­The outcome of Saturday's votes to four for Hernandez, but baseman Ray Knight had two Coach Earle Bruce that they gainst Ohio State since leaving game also could have a bearing four voters on the BBWAA No. I votes. Other first place were under Hayes, Schembech­Miami, Ohio to rake over the on the Big Ten representative 
panel of 24 writers failed to list ballots went to Houston pitcher ler said at his weekly meeting Wolverines. Bruce, who has in the Rose Bowl game. the Pirates' star on their bal­Joe Niekro,Pittsburgh reliever with football writers and broad­seen Ohio State go 10-0 since Michigan's chances of a trip to lots. Had the Pittsburgh slug· Kent Tekulve, Montreal catcher casters Monday. raking over the Buckeyes fol­Pasadena, however, are slim. ger named the most valuable Gary Carter and Pittsburgh ''They 're good defensively lowing Hayes' firing, has never The Wolverines would have player in the playoffs and third baseman Bill Madlock. and a strong offensive team," coached against Michigan or ro bear Ohio State and Indiana Worlci Series, received even a the Michigan coach said. "You Schembechler. would have beat Purdue in lOth-place mention from any of One vorc~r split a fourth place have got to understand, no "Our paths haven't crossed order for Michigan to go to the 
those voters, he would have vote, dividing it between the much," Schembechler said, Rose Bowl; otherwise Ohio
matter how you add it up, Bruce 

won the award. pitching Niekro brothers, Hou­was brought up under Woody. "but I've known Bruce for 30 State will represent the Big Ten 
Much of Hernandez support ston's Joe and Phil' of the "So was I." years. Earle was always a good on New Year's Day. came in second-and third­Atlanta Braves.' Both were Schembechler emphasized, coach and a great guy and I "The Rose Bowl is Satur­place vote~.. He received eight 20-game winners last season. too, that most of the Buckeyes' have a lot of respect for him." day!" Schembechler exclaim­second-place votes and seven Behind Srargell, Hernandez starters are players that Hayes The Buckeyes are 7-0 in the ed. "I've always felt that 
for third, and was the only and Winfield came Montreal recruitt>d. Big Ten after Saturday's 34-7 way.'' player named on all 24 ballots. Schembechler said he 
thought the ream that played
It was an ironic result for After testing the best defense would win 
Stargell, the 38 year-old captain Saturday.of the Pirates, who twice has "Our chances of the Rose

Karate team promotes members 
finished second in close MVP Bowl are not really good, even 
balloting, losing to Joe Torre in if we win, frankly," the Mich­
Gup, blue belt, apprentice ins­
1971 and Pete Rose in 1973. In t<'sting held last week at the Hutchins, Gareielle Pentz, Jim "But we're
igan coach said.
tructor:ACC. the following members of Bowman, Randy Raciri, Steve going to be ready to play hard.''

Pat McNally, Ray Helfer, BobHernandez, who recovered the Notre Dame Karate Team Mulligan, Nancy Kierzkowske, ''The players know this weekKierzkowski, Joe Gamarra, andfrom a disastrous I978 season were promoted to higher rank: Michael Schatz, Thomas is special, too. They'll hang on to win the National League Promoted to 7th gup, yellow Schreck, Dan Brauweiler, Jay Prof. Sean Golden. 
every word I say. There'll beMike McCormick, the presi­batting championship this year, n<'lt. student: Traverse, Mike Lane, Greg attention this week.'' 
dent of Notre Dame's Taehit .344 with II home runs and Koury, Eric Davis, Bob Rickert, 
Many Pippins, Mark Horst, Kwon Do Karate Club, was Schembechler noted, how­
105 runs barred in. D. Recterwald. 
Paul Borja. Steve McBride, Jeff promoted to the rank of 2nd ever, that his players took the 
Srargell, who led the Pirates to Penatzer, Marrin Murphy, Lisa Prc,mored to IJth Gup, green Gup brown belt. McCormick, Purdue defeat very hard. rhe World Championship with Larimer, Brian Graham, belt, advanced student: from West Hartford·, Connec· "It's never an advantage 
heroic playoff and World Series Richard). Banolmei, Jr., Anne Gregory Solman, Greg_ rieur, had to successfully fend going into a game when you're performances, batted .281 and Haley. Matt Blakey, Kathy Bachnuber, Brian Ebert, Jeff off three attacking senior stu· coming off a loss," he said. led Pittsburgh with 32 home Overly, Martha Smith, Marie Young, Diane Picariello, Peg denrs at once as part of his ''Sunday was a day of reflec­
runs while driving in 82 runs. Blaske, Margie Lohmuller, McDaniels, Pablo Sainz. rest. He hopes to be testing for tion. Monday is a day of Winfield led the league in RBI Mary .Jo Kadleck. Michael Promoted to the rank of 4th his black belt this spring. preparation." 

,·... 





