
, , , The Heiress -page 7 


In anit-American protests 

Mob storm.s etnbassy 
TRIPOLI, Libya (AP) .. Some 2,000 Libyans chanting support for Iran stormed and ransacked the U.S. Embassy here yesterday in the lrotest of a wave of angry anti-American protests 
in the Moslem world, U.S. officials reported. 
None of the embassy staff was injured, but the Libyan government accused the· Americans of having seriously injured several of the attackers by firing military-type "toxic gasses" at them. 
Libya's official JANA news agency said this "confirmed that the embassy's employees are military personnel." It did not say whether this meant the government planned to take any action against the Americans, who had to scurry for safety through a back door and went to their homes after the attack. 
State Department officials in Washington said an automatic tear-gas security system had activated when the embassy was stormed. 
The JANA report said the protesters set fire to an American flag and effigies of President Carter and the deposed Shah of Iran. U.S. officials reported serious fire damage on the first f1.1or of the four-story building. 
An embassy source said the consular section was badly damaged and there also was damage on the second floor of the building. theC arter administration immediately filed the "strongest possible'' protest with the government of Libyan leader Col. Moammar Khadafy over the attack and implied that it believed the Khadafy regime supported the attack. 
Only one Libyan policeman was in front _of the emb~~sy ~hen. the demonstrators marched up, and Ltbyan authonttes ignored appeals for help from the staff, State Department

WSND implements policies officials said in Washington. They said additional protection had been requested from the Libyans as recently as Saturday. 
U.S. Marine guards were withdrawn from the embassy some 'Station policy, based on Federal last October 8.) 'Talk it Up' time ago at the requeat of the Libyan government department
by Phyllis Washington 

Communications Commission addresses more relevant officials said. guidelines, regarding offensive campus issues and it has a This was the second time in two weeks that a U.S.
New policies have been program c0ntent. better reputation because we Embassy had been stormed. On Nov. 21, a mob ofimplemented at radio station According to O'Brien, WSND have a very good person Pakistani Moslems attacked and burned the e~J~bassy inWSND in response to the has followed up on their pro­handling it.' Islamabad, killing two U.S. servicemen and two Pakistani controversy arising from last posals. "We've cancelled the WSND' s new program has staff members.

September's broadcast of the 'Radio Free Notre Dame' covered such topics as nuclear The Libyan news agency said the Moslem student protesters"Radio Free Notre Dame" program," O'Brien said, "and marched on the embassy in support of the demand by Iranians

power and i:he overseas
program. WSND's general it was replaced by 'Talk it Up' holding the U.S. Embassy in Tehran for extradition of the ousted manager Jim O'Brien worked 

a new '~SND . program as of [continued on page 8] Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi to Iran.
with the administration to 
insure that a repeat of this incident could not occur. 
''Things are working out well now and relations with the 


Religious leaders hold conference 
administration couldn't be too 
much better,'' O'Brien said. by Stephen Sharp fessor Thomas Idinopulos of ever, defended the Jewish set­that sanctification. 
Last September, a "Radio Stajj K.eporter 
Miami University in Ohio; Pro­tlement of Israel as part of his Chirri denied any religiousFree Notre Dame'' program fessor Pinchas Peli of Ben people's Messianic vtsion. In a foundation for Jewishpresencetopic, "Sex at Notre Dame," Prominent Jewish, Moslem, -Gurion University in Beershe­speech spiced with anecdotes, in Israel.
received complaints about the and Christian speakers empha­ba, Israel, and visiting pro Peli stated, "Judaism is ex­The conference's Christianway the program was being sized the knotty relationship fessor at Notre Dame this year; pressed first and foremost representatives, Idinopulos andconducted on the air. In between politics and religion in and Iman Mohamed Ja wad through religion, not national­Brademas, examined the essen­response to the complaints, the Arab-Israeli conflict at a Chirri, director of the fargest ism . The Jews' purpose ion tial political, not religious, basis Dean of Students, James conference at Notre Dame this Islamic Center ofdetroit and life is to be holy and sanctify the for thearab-Israeli csisic. 
Roemer, ordered O'Brien to weekend. 
spirirtual leader of the coun­name oF God, and the return of Idinopulvs, cvnsulting editordraw up a plan of action against The conference, which foc­try's largest Muslim (and Arab the Jews toT erusalem is part of lcontinued on page 5]the occurrence. cused on the ''Religious Cur­community.
WSND submitted eight rents in the Arab-Israeli Con 
Chirri, certainly the confer­
proposals to Roemer: fl i c t 
ence's most controversial figure 
Militants issue warning.·
--Cancel "Radio Free Notre opened Saturday afternoon at 
is a member ot the shi'httes,
Dame'' the Center for Continuing Edu­
the same religious sect as
--Tape delay all future talk cation with a welcome from Rev 
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeni. 
.Shah must stay in U.S.
shows aired over the station. Theodore Hesburgh. Rep. 
When asked about the Ameri­
--Restrict the two regular John Brademas, Cheif Majority 
can hostages in Iran, the tur­
station employees involved in Whip of the U.S. ofRepresenta­TEHRAN, Iran (AP)-Word an indefinite period of recuper­
ban-clad Chirri responded ­
the "Sex at Notre Dame" tives, delivered the confeence' that the ousted Shah ofIran was ation from gallbladder surgery
stronglky:' 'The nation was held
program from appearing on any keynote address in th Memorial on the move again drew ar. and cancer treatment he under­
hostage for 3 7 years under the
future talk shows at WSND. Library Saturday night. angry new warning yesterday went in New York. 
Shah. The U.S. supports the
--Cut in half the air time of Hesburgh called on all in­from Moslem militants that Egyptian officials, who have
murderer, but not his victims
the two employees involved. volved pareies to 'think outra­they will put their U.S. offered Pahlavi asylum, said in
the poor Iranians. Why is the
--Place the same two employ­geously about the problem in Embassy hostages on trial. Cairo they believe the ailing
U.S. so in love with the Shah?
ees on probation for a period of the Middle East'' IN ORDER It would be a "big mistake" ex-monarch is likely to remain
Khomeni can protect the people
one year. TO END THE CONFLICT. if the shah leaves the United in tha United States for several
of Iran crom Communism as
--Ban the appearance of last "Let's make religion a unitive States, a militant spokesman more weeks. One said the shah
well as he can.''­
year's host, who took part in the not a divisive force for peace. said after learning that former would go to the Bahamas,
Another injustice "injustice"
"Sex at Notre Dame" program After all, peace is the goal of Chirri focused was Iranian monarch Mohammad though the Bahamian govern­
on the
from any future WSND broad­religion,'' Hesbuq~h said. Reza Pahlavi had left New York ment has not confirmed that. 
Jewish displacement of Palest
casts. The panel whtch followed for Texas. But Iran's acting U.S. officials said nothing
ian Moslems. He stated that
--Forbid the appearance of Hesburgh's welcome, however, foreign minister said a trial of about the shah's eventual des­
"to live in one's ownhouse and
the two "guests", non-station highlighted the politicaI con­the hostages would not take tination. President Carter,
country is the minimum of
employees, from ever again tamination of religious ideals in place soon. asked whether he mig~·.t be
human rights. In the Islamic
appearing on a WSND broad­the Middle East. The shah flew before dawn 
offered . permanent U.S.
view, no one should be driven
cast. The panel, ''Major Religious as way from his home.'' yesterday to an Air Force asylum, replied, ''I cannot--Develop and implement a Perspectives," · featured Pro-hospital outside San Antonio for 
Visiting professor Peli. how-[continued on page 2] 

News in brief 
Monday, December 3, 1979 -page 2 


UN Security Council prepares for second debate 
UNITED NATIONS (AP)-Security Council members held private consultations yesterday evening to prepare for a second round of public debate on the U.S.-Iraman crisis. The debate in the 15-member council was expected to resume at about 7:30p.m. U.S. Ambassador Donald F. McHenry said during a television interview earlier yesterday he expected "the council will act (on a resolution) ... sometime tomorrow or the n("xt day. In Tehran Forei~n Ministry spokesman said Iran would be sending a Jow-rankmg admimstrative officer to til~ United Nations, but he would not be an envoy empowered to undertake diplomatic discussions. 
Hostage begs release ofshah on smuggled tape 
LOS ANGELES (AP)-A tape recording by one of the Americans held hostage at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran calls for the United States to surrender the deposed shah oflran so the hostages can be freed. Tfie seven-minute tape of the voice of Jerry Plotkin, from the Los Angeles suburb of Sherman Oaks, was obtained last week by Los Angeles radio station KNCP newsman Alex Paen in Tehran from students holding the embassy. "In the name of God return the shah and free the hostages," Plotkin said in a steady voice. "Let the world know no tyrant or dictatc.Jr can ever find safe harbor in the U.S." 
Officials link bu~ldings to sickness in Carmel 
CARMEL, Ind. (AP)-The mysterious illness that has troubled the faculty at Orchard Park Elementary School may be part of a nationwide surge in sickness related to new buildings, health officials say. "We've had so many of them lately that we could make 'buildings' a full-tjme job," says Dr. Philip R. Taylor, a physician assigned to cover New York state for the National Center for Disease Control. "They all seem ro deal with the air," he said. Orchard Park Faculty reported more than half their numbers were stricken with an unknown illness this year. The symptoms included eye irritation, headaches, nausea, dizziness and fatigue. "As we start to build buildings tighter to conserve energy, we can expect more of this," he said, citing a case on New York's Lon~ Island of an "air-starved building," where improved vemtlation had to be added. 
Native Americans to receive millions in grants 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The U.S. Office of Education announced yesterday 170 grants totaling $24.3 million to improve education for Indian children and adults. Nearly $4.4 million went to tribes and Indian-controlled school boards operating 28 schools in a dozen states. Some $14 million was awarded to tribes and other Indian organizations for teacher training, curriculum development, preschool programs and similar projects. Adult education programs for lndtans received $5.9 million. All the funds were granted under the Indian Education Act. Earlier this year, the government awarded $47 million to local school districts based on the number of Indian children they enroll. 

Weather 
Fair and mild tonight ~ith l?ws in the low 30s. Sunny and warm tomorrow wtth htghs tn the low to mid 50s. 


Camp_u_s-----t 
4:00 p.m. SPEECH "what's general about general intelligence," by robert j. sternberg, ph. d. yale university. sponsored by psych dept. 119 HAGGAR HALL. 
5:15 p.m. SOCIAL french club dinner, sponsored by the modern languages dept. SOUTH DINING HALL, 2nd FLOOR. 
6:45 p.m. ROSARY daily at the GROTTO. 
.. 

-. • • Shah 
[continued from page I] answer that now." 
The militant students holding 50 American hostages at the embassy apparently believed 
the trip to Texas was a' prelude to the shah's departure else­where. • 
"If the shah leaves the United States for another 
Jersey Oub sponsors bus 
The New Jersey Club is con­sidering sponsoring a second bus for Christmas break. All those interested should contact Bart at 6970 by Wednesday. 

Griffin plans Advent 
•
servtces 
Beginning today and continu­ing through Advent, Fr. Robert Griffint will say Mass in the LaFortune Ballroom on week­days at 12:15 p.m. 
SMC board schedules 

bazaar 
The Saint Mary's Student Activities Programming Board will sponsor the annual Christ­mas bazaar which begins today and closes Friday. It will be open between 10 a.m. and 3 
p.m. in the lobby of LeMans. Gifts, crafts and baked goods will be some of the items on sale. For more information contact Mary Ellen Connelley at 4373. 
f-The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Pam Degnan Asst. Night Editors: Steve Swonk, Ran dee Jennings Layout Staff Deirdre Murphy Copy Editor: Lynne Daley News Editors: Mike Lewis, Ellen Buddy Features Layout: K. Con­nally Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Amy Peczkowski, Paula Shea, Beth Willard, Mary Beth Budd, Deirdre Murphy, Marilyn Broderic EMT: Kathy Festin Proofreader: Mike Onufrak · SMC Day editor: Lisa Stan­czak Ad Design: David Wood, Ann Fink Photographer: Chris Salvino Guest Appearances: "Happy Birthday Mark!!" 
The Observer [USPS Sll 11211] Is published Monday through Frtdly u­cept during exam 1nd vacatilll plrildl. The Observer Ia publlsllld by tiMI students of Notre 011111 IMI Sllnt Miry's Cllllge. SublcrtpliiiiiiiiiY lie purchnld tar S2ll per ye~r ($11 Jill' 111111StMII1'1111'1 The Observer. 1'.0. bill 
0. Nttrl D1me, llldilna 411111. SlciiMI cllu ~~ paid, Nttrl 011111, ln­dillll . 
The Observer Is 1 IMIIIIIer II 1111 Auocllted Pms. All itpliilllc1llll riglltlll'l l'lllrYIII. 
countrv. we will try the hos­Pahlavi to face charges of mass tages/'. one said when reached murder and corruption. On by telephone. 
Saturday, the militants claimed "This is another trick taken one of their hostages had by the CIA to protect the confessed to being a CIA asent. 
shah," said another. "But 

Acting Foreign Minister 
everyone in the world knows he Sadegh Ghotbzadeh told a 
cannot be protected against the French radio interviewer the will of God and the will of the 
shah's travels were part of "a 
The students and Ayatollah plot against our revolution.'' Ruhollah Khomeini have "If the United States decides threatened to put their captives to continue the crisis ... the trial on trial as "spies" if the United of the spies here will begin,'' he States does not hand over said. 

RINK RIVERSIDE 

PRINTING, INC. 
209 EAST COLFAX AVE./ SOUTH BEND. IN 46617 
• FINE LITHOGRAPHY 
• COMMERCIAL PRINTING 
• INSTANT PRINTING Phone 232-7935 See us about your res.ume 



UMVERSITY OF PITfSBURGH GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS 
OPTIMIZATION = A PriT MBA 
Our accelerated 11-month MBA program is smart management: optimization of time, future income, and management education. 
PriTSBURGH DOES MEAN BUSINESS. 
Mail for catalog and application. 
Name  
Address  
Mail to:  Graduate School of Business, Admissions  
University of Pittsburgh  ·  
1401 Cathedral of Learning Pittsburgh, PA 15206  C17  

..~ ....... -..-............. ·~--------------· -----·---­
c~s•.r-"'*'·-..---·-•·• ·-···--·... ·-•··-·-·------........ -· ·-~4 
.... .. ... ... , ...... ~.-....-·-· 
.... -.-.... ·-· .... -.. 


The Observer 

·Monday, December 3, 1979 -page 3 
· THE SENIOR CLASS fORMAL ~ "NAME THAT THEME CONTEST" ~ DECEMBER.5-6-7 U SUBMIT THEMES TO ::> ND-SMC DINING HALLS 5-6pm 
§ LAFORTUNE LOBBY 12-1 
~ SMC 0-C LOBBY 12-1 ~ WINNER RECEIVES DINI\lER FOR TWO AT MOONRAKER 


CAMBODIA IS DYING 





'f{ Savethe I Children® 
Westport, Connecticut 
06880
Lines at the computing center seem to grow larger every day. 
Iranians cast votes; favor newconstitution 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -Iranians began voting yesterday on a new constitution that would make. Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini ruler for life. Over­whelming approval was ex­pected in the two-day referen­dum, despite strong criticism from the left and center that it would give the religious leader "dictatorial powers." 
Some Western observers be­lieve that once K.homeini is constitutionally installed, he may adopt a more conciliatory approach to the deadlock over the 50 American hostages being held by militant students at the 
U.S. Embassy here. 
But Iranian sources reject such conjecture.. They maintain the Iranian leadershtp reflects the people's angry determination to bring the deposed Shah Mo­hammad Reza Pahlavi back to Iran for trial. 
The balloting went relatively smoothly, although there were reports ofminor disturbances in provincial areas where non­Persian ethnic groups have been agitating for greater auto­n?my from the Khomeini re gtme. 
Men and women over the age of 16 filed in separate lines into Tehran's voting stations to make their simple "Yes" or "No" choices with non-secret balots, often aided by Mullahs -Moslem priests-at the ballot boxes in mosques. 

Operators man . switchboard ; provide student service 
by Mike Lewis Executive News Editor 
All of the telephone calls from, to, and within Notre Dame go through a complicated maze of electronic equipment in the basement of the Memorial Library. 
Two operators man the switch­board there from 7:30 a.m. to 
11:30 p.m. each day. Janice Love, one of the operators, said her primary duties are to correct misdialed numbers and provide information for callers, not all of which has to do with the phone system. 
Operators are often asked to provide correct numbers, or report a malfunctioning tele­phone. But they are also asked to settle bets, relate game scores and offer help to oft-confused Notre Dame students. ~ 
"One time a student called me and asked how to cooK a roast," said Joan Krarrier, one of the operators. 
Love added that she was asked to settle a bet earlier this semester. 
''Will you tell this fellow that no girls are allowed on '"ht Notre Dame campus?" :;:~ caller asked. The caller "''as very disappointed with her reply, Love recalled. 
Both operators said their job would be a little easier if students would consult their own books rather than call them for numbe..... The operators' phones are wired so they will not register a busy signal, and 
twelve caUs wd1 "pile up:'~h a 
time. According to Love this 
results in many hurried mo­
ments in the switchboard 
room. 
The switching equipment sits behind the operators' room. Jon Giiroy, a Bell technician assigned to Notre Dame, said there is • 'probably enough wire in there to stretch from New York to Los Angeles." 

The equipment is set up to form a "step system," as calls literally progress from one end ofthe room to another while the connection is made. Students dialing long distance are trans­. ferred automatically to an off-
campus operator. 
The system also features 
devices that monitor the flow of 
calls and the amount of traffic 
on N,)[r:: Dame lines. A special 
machine is attached to the 
system and the statistics are 
transmitted to Indianapolis, 
where the results are tabulated. 
one study of this sort is now 
under way in preparation for 
the planned dormttory. This 
study, Gilroy said, will help 
technicians instaJl -he phones 
when the bUilding , bui' ·. 
-:·he central swit.:.i:ll.,g s~··;rem 
•~ 'identical" to ,~ht:r codege phone syste~s. Gilroy said, although it is much smallerthan at some larger Universitie~ TheUniversity ofWisconsin, for example, has about 40,00~ tele­phones on its system, he said. Dick miller, a repairman assigned to Notre Dame along with Vern Manthy, said one of 
[continued on .Page 5] 



BUCKMINISTER FULLER TUESDAY DEC. 4th 
8:00 pm LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 

FREE ADMISSION 
RECEPTION FOLLOWING SPONSERED BY SU ACADEMIC CO ON 



NOW••• 
ALLBASF BLANK TAPES 

SPECIALLY PRICED 

Available at 
IRIIVEIR (IITY IRE<OIRDS 
SOUTH BEND AND MICHIGAN CITY 


-------~---~~,­
The Observer Monday, December 3, 1979 -page 4 
-~--: ~ 
by Phyllis Washing_I_!Jn

.•ONCE AGAIN!!! 
What is a university press? "Before I came here," Jim

STUDENT GOV'T 
Lan~ford, director of the Uni­verSJty of Notre Dame Press, .~ said, "I woned at Michigan's

PRESENTS 
press and I got a phone call to press a pair of pants.'' 
But a university press does not
.• ND Press 
iron clothes. "We do for the academic side of the university what the sports teams do for the 
·HAVE LUNCH 
fame of Notre Dame," Lang­ford explained. "We're not going to get as much attention 
WITH A PROF· .. reflects 
as the football and the basket­ball teams, of course, but we're
,U. 5 tickets per week 
cr academic getting the name of the Univer­

5 students per ticket 
•~ tickets available • • 
in student gov 't office (2nd floor Iafortuney • 
.~any questions call Mike Flynn: 8906 ~ 7668 
Vl~.,......~~,..TRE~_:,., .."'t.....,.~_,.:!ffi,......~~_.R_O_..,K.,.!IIIII!!....,.-.....-i~
...._A_T""~ •. 

excellence 
where Notre Dame press paper­
backs are used in courses. 

More of our books are used at 
Harvard than at Notre Dame," 
he added. 

In addition to the use of the 
University Pressjaperbacks in 
other colleges an universities, 
all books published that carry 
Notre Dame's name are also 
published in England and sold 
1n many parts ofEurope. These 
books are not just books written 
by Notre Dame faculty mem­
bers. In fact, two-thirds of the 
books are from authors outside 
of the Notre Dame community. 
Unlike most university presses around the country, Notre Dame's is self-supporting. It receives no direct subsidizing from the University. "Fewer than ten universities in the country break even,'' said Langford. "We attempt to break even, but we're not here to make a profit." 
Langford cited three immedi­ate goals of the Press. "We plan to sponsor an annual lecture series by world famous people," Langford said. At the present time, the University Press is negotiating with Carlos Fuentes, Mexico's most famous novelist. 
A second plan is to invite national leaders to the univer­sity for a week to give lectures under the sponsorship of Uni­versity Press. "The lectures will ~row into a book that we'll publish," Langford said. 
"We also hope to launch a kind of book club," he said. This club would inform the public of what the Press has to offer and would deal primarily with Notre Dame alumni'. 
"Bookstores are generally lo­cated in shopping centers and they only carry the ten best sellers in fiction, and the ten best sellers in non-fiction. They don't carry more serious kinds of books," Lan~ford said. 
"Most alumni look back and would like to have a continua­tion of the sort of values that they discovered here," Lang­ford said. "Their main connec­tions with the University after they graduate are through re­unions and the Notre Dame Magazine. But there isn't a real consorted sort of continu­in~ education where important thmgs are being brought to their attention." 
The book club would keep in touch with the alumni' and let them know about books that might be interesting to them, what books the press publishes and other books published by other publishers, and it will make it easy for the alumni to order them. 
Notre Dame's Board of Direc­tors of the Alumni Association voted unanimously to encour­age and support the idea. However, the club is still in the planning stage until adequate financing can be found. 
One possibility for financing might be through the expected sales for this year. "We're hoping this year to get sales in the area of $600,000,'' Langford 
[continued on page BJ 

sity out to the world in aca­
demic circles. The UniversitY 
of Notre Dame Press reflects 
the academic excellence ofwhat 
goes on in the university.'' 
Notre Dame's press started in 
194? and became a major press 
in ~ 1961. The early press 
printed The Scholastic and the 
~otre Dame Ma~azine, but it 
no longer does pnnting. All the 
printing is done in Michigan 
and Harper and Row does all 
the warehousing. 
The Press is located on the 
fiftn floor of the Memorial 
Library and it employs about 
twelve people. The staff is 
small but they do a great deal of 
work. About 800 manuscripts 
are reviewed in a given year 
and out of those, thirty to 
thirty-five of the best manu­
scripts are selected to be pub­
lished. ~ 
The Notre Dame Press pub­lishes a certain kind of book. "It exists to publish books that are deserving of publishing, which commerical publishers (such as Double Day and Har­per and Row) won't publish," Langford said. Landgord cate­~orizes these books as "seri­wus,_ non-fiction," about impor­tant ISSUeS. 
The Press restricts itself to five or six strong areas that it knows it can publish well. Most of these books deal with hu­manities, ethnic studies, philo­sophy, theology, literature and political science. "It you can concentrate on JUSt a few are­as,"· Langford said, "you can build a strong program.'' 
The Notre Dame Press ranks about twenty-fifth out of seven­ty"Seven university presses lo­cated in the entire country in the number of books reviewed and the level of sales. In terms ofrecognition and reputation, it ranks considerably higher than twenty-fifth. For example, Notre Dame was placed in a category with five other univer­sity presses, five times as large, that were included in a New York Times feature story. The profile also included Harvard, Princeton, The Ur :versity of Chicago, Joh Hopk ns, and The University of Caliiornia. "Our program has given the Univer­sity a lot of recognition,'' Langford said. 
Notre Dame's press sells many books to college, univer­sity and public libraries around the country. "There are about 130 colleges and universities 
THE ST. mARY'S INTERHALL SPEAKER'S SERIES PRESENTS DR. JOHN DUGGAN "THE ST. mARY'S WOmAN, A PERSONAL EVALUATION" ES. DEC. 4 8:00 pm ___....... LEmANS HALL LOBBY .  


-~ -~-------,---.,....-----:-.._.,.,~-., 
-

The Observer Monday, December 3, 1979 -page 5 In pre-OPEC bargains /**********************************~ 


lJ.S. urges high oil production i The Observer ! 


WASHINGTON (AP) -It was from the outset a hat-in-hand performance: Treasury Secre­tary G. William Miller urging Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Abu Dhabi to keep oil production high to help restrain oil prices a~d prevent a worldwide reces­ston. 
"It's the annual pre-OPEC pleading by the United States," one U.S. diplomat in the Mid­east observed. 
U.S. Treasury secretaries have regularly beat a path to the three countries in advance of price-setting meetings of the Organization of Petroleum Ex­
[continued from page 1] to the -Middle East J<Eview,
\ 
agreed with Chirri that religion was not -the force behind the Paelstinian's demand for na­tionhood. ''Theie effort is parallel to the Zionist efforts 30 years ago. the humiliation which the Palestinians feel has planted the seeds of national­oism in them," Idinopulos said. Indiana's Third District repre­sentative, John Brademas, 
spoke on the American political involvement in the Arab-Israeli conflict. He bemoaned recent statistics which show a marked decline in foreign studies by American students at a time when understanding oi other cultures , especially Islamic, is 

, , , Calls 
[continued from page 31 his biggest problems is abuse of 
the telephones. He added that this mistreatment usually in­volves phones that ar_e acciden­tally cfropped and ts seldom 
''malicious. '' 
A second problem is illegal 
extensions in students' rooms. 
''There are a lot of illegal 
extensions on campus,'' he 
said, "but we don't make a big 
deal about 1t." 
"We want the students' co­
operation,"he said, adding that 
tqe extensions have not caused 
troubles with the switching 
equipment so far. ·· 
--···"''"''''''""'''''''''''""'"'""..-;";~ 
fl
cp~anm and1 :·. CJ'~owelm 
• 

Campus Delivery in LaFortune 
Jll<tt CO~aQ 2M484f 
CRegufuh bohillg houJrs 

--~~~~cig~~~'"ou'. 
porting Countries, scheduled this year for Caracas on Dec. 
17. • 
Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi are re~arded as moderates on oil pnces within OPEC and, along with Kuwait, they pro­duce slightly more than half of the annual daily · OPEC oil output of nearly 31 million barrels. The three countries have said they would like te cut production in 1980. 
Under the circumstances, Mil­ler returned from the trip with probably the best results the United States had any reason to expect. Saudi Arabia and 

Conference 
,most tmportant. Brademas 
noted signs of such ignorance even in the U.S. government 
'I'm critical of the U.S. government fo not following the situation in Iran for the past two or three years more closely,'' Brademas said. ''How could they ignore the mASKED Irani­an students protesting in front of thewhite House several years ago?" 
• • . Policy 
[continued from page Bl 
come in and tell us what to do if 
they don't have direct contact 
with the station. If they're 
coming in on the decision 
making process, they have to be 
with us to put the decisions 
through.'' 
In addition, O'Brien said, 
''The job ofour advisory board 
is being done already." 
WSND's budget is handled 
through Jim McD.Q.~d. 
Director of Student Activittes. 
WSND's licensee is Father 
EdmundJoyce. "I am account­
able to Fr. Joyce," O'Brien 
explained. 
O'Brien also said that WSND 
doesn't need a board to tell 
them what the Notre Dame 
students want. They already 
have people working at the 
station who are responding to 
what the students want. 
ROCCOS--f men's anit women's hairstyling 
at comfortable. prices 5'31 N. Michigan 
233-4957 

a needs :
Kuwait said they would consi­der the plea to maintain high oil 
* * 
output, while Abu Dhabi a­



! Layout Personnel !
greed to produce what it could. Miller's mission was enor­mously complicated by recent * "* 
: Interested students should contact : 
events in Iran. Officials in all three countries worried aloud : john McGrath -phone 1715 : that the U.S. action freezing Iranian assets, for whatever * *
************************************ 
reason, co~ld someday happen to them m the event of a political falling-out with the 

~S WEEKEND · 
United States. Furthermore, there were 

JUN\OR PARENRU 22-24 1980 
warnings that an armed conflict between the United States and Iran could push the Arab oil producers to adopt positions unfavorable to the United 
LOTTERY FOR ROOMS AT
States as all three countries would fear violence from mili­
THE MORRIS INN
tant Moslem groups if they adopted pro-U.S. positions. 

LAFORTUNE LITTLE,THEATRE
The potential for trouble in Saudi Arabia was reflected in the week-long occupation of the 
WEDNESDAY DECEMBER 5th 
Moslem world's most holy site, 
--~ -~----~---­
the Grand Mosque at Mecca, by armed invaders during the en­tire time Miller was in the 


~==.==7prn ! ! 
country, although the two e­vents were unrelated. 
©.Continental Restaurant Systems 1979 

DINNER FoR $5.45 
When you're really hungry, order a complete dinner with all the trimmings at a price that tastes as good as the food ...There's succulent prime rib, fresh fish, and saucy teriyaki chicken ... It's more than a mouthful ... 
Sunday Noon to 4p.m. Mon. thru. Thurs. 5p.m. to 7p.m. 



Those tasty creations that11 tickle your palate and tantalize' your pocketbook ... Imagine the sirloin supreme, top sirloin covered with Monterey Jack cheese, sauteed mushrooms, onions and peppers ...Or juicy beef brochette, charbroiled sirloin bits marinated in a delicious 
burgundy sauce ...There's even a fresh catch of the day for seafood lovers ...They must be tried to be believed ... 
52885 U.S. 31 North South Bend, 272-5478 

Phone for reservations 
™ 



<\~... ~}~ 
•. ;; l. 







Features 
Monday, December 3, 1979 -page 6 
A Church Losing Faith 
Fr. Bill Toohey 
"The church seems bent on making a horrible mistake. It appears poised to 
take a giant leap backwards towards a position of promoting a static concept of 
faith that will be catastrophic to the Christian community." 
These words, shared with us by a bishop last week, carried a punch, not just because they came from a church leader but because this particular bishop, unlike many of his colleagues, is well schooled in the theories of religious educarion and evangelization. 
He was referring to the fact that the church's current catechetical direction is ~...ontrary to the recent renewal of the church, which had been recapturing the correct understanding of faith. · 
In an earlier time, if we were asked the question, "What ill revelation?" many of us would have been inclined to say that revelation is all the truths God has revealed -the teachings, dogmas and doctrines of the church. Faith, then, we thought, is the acceptance of these truths. 
Unfortunately, this is exactly what revelation is not; precisely what faith is not. Revelation has always been, until for involved historical reasons culminating about the 12th and 13th centuries it became distorted -­revelation has always been, not a collection of data or information and truths about God, but the experience of God meeting men and women; an exchange between persons. Consequently, faith is not an acceptance of facts or information, but a response to this Person. It is the total and complete giving of oneself not to some thing but to Someone. 
The failure to clearly understand this has led to great pastoral tragedy in the history of the Catholic Church. It meant, as Newman pointed out, that you had a lot ofpeople who knew the content of their faith (the catechism answers) but whose lives were unchanged. I would call it the "Walter Cronkite problem." _,. 
A lot of people are willing to use the language of faith about Walter Cronkite. They will say: "I believe in Walter Cronkite. I believe he is fairly objective in his news reporting, and that what he tells me is true. I believe in him." 
The problem is this: It's possible for these same people to go no further with Jesus Christ than they have with Walter Cronkite. It's posstble to accept what Jesus says as true, to give him intellectual assent. But this is a far cry from biblical faith, which is not a question ofcerebral acceptance of truths but a total surrender to a rerson. 
A famous writer o a few years ago, Gerald Vann, once shocked his 

Christmas Sarah A. Lanman 
Renaissance style 
It is the Christmas season; the holiday spirit is in the air. Some­where in southern England, in the latter part of the Renaissance, friends are jotning together for a feast and celebration of the sacred occasion. A fire is blazing, while the smell of roast beef, glazed carrots, roast potatoes, and bread fill the great hall. 
A fanfare of trumpets announce the arrival of the guests and the com­mencement of the festivities. 
Thus the atmosphere was set for the beginning of the eighth annual Madrigal Dinners, held at Saint Mary's on November 29, 30 and December 1, 2. The Chamber Singers, the collegium musicum, Opera Workshop, and a score of dancers worked and performed under the direction of Dr. Raymond Sprague and Ms. Caroline Knell (both members of Saint Mary's Music Department) to produce and Elizabethan yuletide banquet. 
As the fifteen to twenty couples danced to a sixteenth-century pavane during their entrance procession, one could see the brilliantly-colored and uniquely-patterned Renaissance cos­
tumes of the guests.  The lord and  
lady  of  the  house  issued  their  
welcome,  while  the  court  jester  

delighted in the excitement of the event. The evenins was a perpetual celebration: begmning witn the welcoming ceremonies, continuing through the meal, and finishing with an after-dinner concert, the enter­tainers provided an endless variety of music and dancing. 
Traditional English tunes, such as the Wassatl Carol and the Boar's Head Carol, signaled that the feast was about to begin. The Christmas punch (or wassail) was a mixture consisting of wine or ale, spices, and baked apples and served 10 a large bowl. The drink was "well received" by the guests, who kept the dozen costumed servers busy throughout the evening. Cries of "Wassail!" were frequently heard, since the word was also an early English toast to om... 's health 
' ... t. ............... ·~· ... ,. ·~ . • ... . •••• -""} •• 
After the appropriate blessings over the food were made, assorted forms of entertainment continued through­out the meal. Several French branles (or in English, brawls) were perform­ed by the dancers: these independ­ent popular dances in duple or triple meter date back to the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Throughout the Medieval and Renaissance eras wandering minstrels often provided their songs in exchange for food and lodging. This tradition was reflected in the arrival of a minstrel, who sang traditional Christmas carols with guitar accompaniment. Michael Praetorius was generally known in the sixteenth century for his Syntag­ma musicum, a treatise of music that described the various instruments of the period. But Praetorius was a composer as well as a theorist: several of his works, such as ]Dseph, Lieber, joseph Mein, were perform­ed by the collegium musicum, a SMC instrumental ensemble consisting of recorders, tambourine, violin, cello, and harpsichord. 
The final fanfare of trumpets an­nounced the upcoming after-dinner concert. Sing We and Chant It, performed by the Chamber Singers and written by Thomas Morley, an Elizabethan composer, typifies the English madrigal of the time. Other works by Morley included April is in My Mistress' Face, Shoot, False Love, I Care Not, and Dainty, Fine Sweet Nymph. Several dance compo­sitions by Tielman Susato (who was better known as a publisher of chansons or songs) were featured along with Cesare Negri's dance, So Ben mi ch' a Bon Tempo. This composition included Renaissance choreography created specifically for the work. 
The lively dancing, the Renaissance musical compositions, the elaborate costumes, and the abundant food all contributed to the authenticity of the evening's festivities. The Madrigal Dinners successfully captured the spirit of an Elizabethan feast, while creating a unique atmosphere for the rpl,,.ht"~ · of the Christmas season. 
contemporaries with the kind of shock we need again today, when he said: "I don't believe in the dogmas, doctrines and teachings of the Catholic church. No, I ~~lieve through them in the living reality beyond -in the person of Jesus. 
God Himself, as Aquinas insisted, is the reality for the believing person. The current trend towards a static concept of faith, with its over-emphasis on memorization of the ''deposit of truths,'' fails to appreciate what authentic faith is all about. 
There is a content of-revealed truth, which is protected and transmitted through the church. And this cognitive element, this knowledge content of faith, is very important. But it is completely secondary and supplementary to the experiential, to the actual experience of encountering the Lord, who calls us to covenant and discipleship. 
The current crisi'> of faith comes from stressing the cognitive without respecting the experiential. We are in danger of perverting revelation, once again, into a thing --a collection of information, a mere body of facts. Churchmen onct> ,!.gain seem to be on the brink of forgetting that revelation is an event wherein God himself personally communicates to us throu~h various means (e.g., scripture, sacraments, historical events and especially other people), to establish and deepen a relationship of faithful love. 
It is in the personal experience that is revelation that Christ encounters us, speaks to us, shows us who we are, and propos~s that we drop what we're doing to follow Li{ll. The fact that the current trend concentrates on information about God rather than on promoting occasions to actually encounter God is the reason why informed people like the bishop I referred to are becoming so alarmed. 
''A. static concept offaith," the bishop told me, "has always led to tragedy Confusing faith with mere doctrinal knowledge made it possible, for example, for Catholics in Nazi Germany to have the best catechisms in the world and to be the most effectively instructed Catholics all the time Hitler was destroying the Jewish people.'' 
This same differentiation between theological literacy and authentic faith, between intellectual information and spiritual formation, means that it could be possible for someone to have a straight 4.0 in theology courses and be, in fact, an atheist. It is one thiug to know facts; it is quite another to live a totally differen~ kind of life because of a transforming encounter with the living God. 
ND!SMC Costume-Making A Full Scale Production 
As preparation for the play The Herress entered its final stages, the staff of the SMC/ND costume shop 
-meticulously put the finishing touch­es on their creations. These uniquely fashioned outfits were donned on opening night. The costume shop personnel consists of eight work/ study students, five drama students and two volunteers. Involvement is not limited to d.rama majors, but is open to anyone interested in costume design. There are a variety of activities in which to participate. Theatrical accessories, for instance, such as make-up and wie-s as well as the basic costumes, are fashioned' at the shop. . 
Dee Hawfield, a~sistant professor of Speech and Drama at SMC, designs the apparrel and oversees preduction. Along with her shop duties, Hawfield also teaches courses in Costume Desi_gn and Fashion at SMC. Before begtnning to design the costumes for a particular play, Haw­field sets aside two or three weeks to research the historical context of the play. The study includes influences such as the artwork and embroidery of the time. In designing cos{umes for The Heiress, Hawfield even investigated the etiquette of the 1850's. 
According to Hawfield, however, costumes must suit the personalities of the characters, not just the era of a play. For this reason, she believes that costumes do not necessarily have to be precisely historically accurate. For instance, in The Heiress, hoop skirts are worn by the actresses, though historically, this type of skirt is not introduced until about six years after the date that the play takes place. The theory at work behind the use of the hoop skirts is that a costume may influence the mood of an actress, and hence, her approach to a character. The skirts, in allowing greater freedom of movement, lend 
Kathy Murray 
themselves to a more spontaneous 
performance. 
One problem encountered at the 
costume workshop is high worker 
turnover rate. Many student workers 
cannot cope with the intensity of the 
two week production schedules. And 
many would-be workers are unaware 
of the costume shop's existence (in 
the basement of Moreau Hall). 
The costume shop houses all of the 
costumes worn in previous SMC/ND 
theatrical productions. Occasionally 
an outfit is reused, though the 
number of ready-made costumes is so 
small that most must be made from 
scratch. Costumes are loaned to the 
Saint Mary's Srudent Government 
and to the Music Department for 
school functions such as the Madrigal 
Dinners. In addition, they are some­
times loaned to local high sthools. In any case, strict loan procedures are adhered to, to insure that costumes are returned in good condition. 
Just as previously used costumes are orgamzed according to their historical period and stored, the patterns used to create them are also filed for reuse. For Dee Hawfield, designing costumes involves not only mixing and matching patterns,! but relying on improvisation in creating gowns, petticoats and suits. 
It stands to reason, that making elaborate clothing might prove very expensive. Through buying the need­ed materials in bulk and soliciting the generous contributions of local cloth­ters, expenses are held at a mini­mum. Naturally, some productions are more expensive that others, and while the costumes for The Heiress only cost about eight hundred dol­lars, the costumes for Hamlet, cost about fourteen hundred dollars. If seeing beautiful, creatively made garments interests you, go to see The Heiress---better yet, go offer your services at the costume shop! 
~ ..~.· .. ·. 



The Observf~r Monday, December 3, 1979 -page 7 




The Heiress -A Striking Study 
The Heiress, a play by Ruth and Augustus Goetz, (based on Henry James' novel Washington Square), is a striking study of subtle cruelty between parent and offspring, and between lovers. Directing such a play on stage is no easy task; and exploration of the cruelty, and its outcomes, must be presented both sensitively and revealingly for the play to be successful. For the most part, Frederic Syburg's ND/SMC Theater's production, which opened last Friday, at Saint Mary's O'Laugh­lin Hall, succeeds. 
The entire action of this seven scene play occurs in the handsome parlor of one Dr. Austin Sloper's home in Washington Square in New York, in the nineteenth century. Sloper is a bitterly di~illusioned map, having lost a beauuful young wtfe upon the birth of their daughter, Catherine, who is now a gentle but unexceptional young woman. Know­ing she will never have the beauty or grace of her mother, Sloper does not hesitate to remind the girl of the fact. And when a forcune-hunting gentle­man, Morris Townsend, breezesin to woo and win Catherine and her inheritance, Sloper relentlessly strives to expose Morris' motives, at the expense of his daughter's feel­ings. By the end of the play, Catherine has been jilted,and is cooly a stony woman, which enables her to revenge herself against Morris with stingy subletly 
Sophom.orf' John Davenport per­forms superbly as the disenchanted doctor, obssessed by his daughter's lack of startling qualities. "Help her to be clever," he icily instructs Lavina, his sister. When she indignantly responds with "She's 
good!" the doctor retorts "You are good for nothing unless you are 
Apocalypse NoUJ: Carni 
"! love the smell of napalm in the 
morning. It's the smell of victory." 
.. colonel Ktfgore 
Apocalypse Now is the $31 million 
doUar, three years-in-the making 
masterpiece about war. It is tenuous­
ly based on Joseph Conrad's novel 
Heart of Darkness. An awesome 
movie experience, it is quite possibly 
the finest cinematic undertaking of 
all time. Lampooned by some as 
being a monument to his vibrantly 
expansive ego, Cop~ola' s Apocalypse 
Now is a rare treat tn both narrative 
sophistication and orgiastic visual 
imagery. 
Superbly screenwritten by Michael 
Herr ( auther of best-selling Dispatch­
es) the film maintains a dual dialogue 
throughout. ~:>rotagonist Cap~ain 
Willard's narrattve echoes reflecttve­
ly as he ascends the Nom River in 
search of the legendary outlaw, 
Colonel Kurtz. In addition to the 
directorial genius of Coppola, virtuoso cinematographer Vittorio Storaro and production designer Dean Davoularis combine their formidable talents to create a movie that rarely spills over into dramatic exce~s, bombast or 
ludicrous st~reotyptn.$. . 
The stunnmg openmg scene IS a visual extraction from the eschato­logical images of St. J.ohn's !3ook of Revelation. -Demomc hehcopters circle the jungle like infernal ~agon­flies even vultures, searchmg for uns~specting prey. Their buzzing evokes the childhood terror of Wells' War of the Worlds. We know these are machines made by men, yet somehow they possess a spirit infus­ed by an alien consciousness, a destructive UFO invader coming to ravage and obliterate. The nightma!­ish aura is enhanced by the eene 
wails of "Jim Morrison, dead lead 
singer of the rock group The D_oor~. 
It is unquestionably the most nvetmg 
first scene in film since Travolta's 
sensuous peacock stroll down Flat­
bush Avenu~ . in, .Saturday JVight
Fever. · 
ND!SMC Theatre 1979 O'Laughlin Auditorium 

[photo by Beth Prezio] 
clever.'' Davenport maintains this brittle attitude until at long last the doctor sees Catherine's love--and Catherine has little left to give him. In this powerful scene, the doctor is reduced to a pathetic shadow of his former, domineering self, and Cath­erine assumes his previous persona1i · ty. "You are cruel," he implores h.er, to which she replies, "I have been taught by masters." 
At first, Cathy Hurst, as Catherine, was more stiff than painfully shy, b~t she soon settled into her characf!et and admirably developed her from a trembling girl who "disappears into the pantry' • whenever company ar­ives, into a cooly assertive woman. She is most appealing as the early, 
The film shifts gears, bringing us to 
a sleazy hotel in downtown Saigon: 
Captain Willard (Martin Sheen) ts 
rapidly moving from despondency to 
madness, saying ''Everytime I wake 
up, I think I'd be bac~ ~n ~he jungle." 
He receives a new mtsston: to find 
the renegade Colonel Kurtz (Marlon 
Brando) and "terminate with ex­
treme prejudice." This chilling order 
crystallizes the icr. amorality of 
warfare whereby military and politi­
cal adv~ntage supercedes all ethical 
considerations. 
Kurtz, meanwhile, has supposedly 
gone insane in the jungles of Cam­bodia. He leads a wacky, but fiercely devoted army of AWOLs who join with the indigenous POJ?Ulation to establish a cult, whose Idol is the . demi-God Kurtz. Willard knows strange adventures await him: ''I was going to the worst place in the 
world, and I didn't know it yet." 
How right his intuition was. 
Before the actual voyage up ~he 
River Nom, a beautiful sunnse 
precedes the most spellbinding 
military attack scene I've ever 
witnessed. Led by a ja1,1nty jock 
whose jingoism is only exceeded by 
his outrageous garb (Calvary Cam­
paign hat, dark Clark Gable sun­
glasses, and yellow scarf), the swag­
gering Colonel Kilgore (Robert Du­
vall) has 11 helicopters classically 
wired to blare Wagner's Valkyrie at 
ear-splitting decibels during the sub­
sequent massacre. The r~ason?. To 
frighten the already terrified vtlla­
gers. Numerous absurdities int~r­
sperse this scene to lend the effecuye 
moral ambiguity to the war • chtef 
among them being ~o surfer.s plea~­
uring themselves whtle the vtllage 15 
razed, then napalmed into ob~ivio~. 
Man's propensity for profa~ung hfe ·continues on the voyage mto ~he 
jungle. Scenes include a devastau~g 
slaughter of innocef_lt. b~at P<;ople, 10 
which the only_surv•vons a lttt.k do.g .... 
1 .
'that is flUrsed by the u.·s·. SOtdtefs'. , It .. 
vulnerable Catherine; when Morris 
(James 0'brien) first tells her he has 
fallen in love with her, her stunned, 
•'You have? 'is a priceless moment, as is her first kiss. r 
O'Brien seems less at ease with the formal English spoken at the time than the other members of the cast, and consequently sounds like a smooth talking salesman than shrewdly secuctive suitor. In the Broadway staging of Heiress, (featur­ing Richard Kiley as Sloper and Jane Alexander as Catherine), David Selby of Dark Shadows fame portrayed Morris as an irresistibly charming villain, so that the audience was torn between pitying him or applaud~ng Catherine's·actions at the play's chma­

• 
~n· 


Christopher A. Stewart 
reminded me of the neutron btvnb 
controversy: buildings over peopk 
This time it was a puppy over 
persons. Another intense scene 
involved the men looking for man­
goes, who found a tiger mstead. It 
jarred me with fright, reminiscent of 
those scenes when the nefarious 
people-eater of jaws swallowed half 
of Martha's Vineyard for a snack in 
1976. 
Included were equally moving 

scenes involving the juxtaposition of 
two totally disparate cultures--Amer­
can and Asian--tragically interlocked 
in a war that none of its doomed 
performers understood. A USOshow 
conjured up afloating Caesar's Pal­
ace. The USO show ended 
antically, with the· pretty ladies' 
gyrations precipitatins a forceful· 
uprising of randy soldiers eager for 
action of a non-military nature. 
Herr's screenwriting excelled dur­

ing the river voyage. As they
apP.ro~ched an army outpost, one of 
Wtllard's subordinates said: "we're 
in the asshole of the world, Captain.'' 
The dazzling displays of neon and 
tinsel at these outposts brought home · 
the shame of America's cavalier 
gaudiness in the midst of this 
hellhole of a war. A carnival in 
Hades, methought. Yet, without the 
quasi-celebrations, and drug-induced 
euphoria, how could anyone have 
es~;aped that madhouse alive, with 
bodY., soul and mind intact? Even 
devtls need to sins, however grating 
and moribund thetr song. 
The confrontation with Kurtz is 
disappointingly anticlimactic. This 
denouncement suffers from over­
tones of moral murkiness and phil­
isophical vacuity. Horror and evil are 
gallantly sought, presented and ex­
plicated. But Kurtz is not a 
convmcing ogre, nor the epitome of 
evil. To his people, he is "a 
poet-warrior ... a great man who en­
~~ ..~ 1'£ " Al J.. h h 
·~~. ~.e.. ·' ,fL I••oug we ,see . .t e 
Molly Woulfe 
tic conclusion. No such dilemma in O'Laughlin Hall; the audience .was delighted with revenge, as he ts an easily dislikable, overly-flattering blackguard. O'Brien is more con­vincing when he is quarreling rather than courting,-as in the scene where Dr. Sloper learns of their engage­ment, and the two men exchange a 
verbal volley of irate accusations. 
The play ts not without its lig?ter moment, which are mostly provt~ed by Sloper's one-lif_le;' a~d by Lavma Penniman, Cathenn s wtdowed aunt, played by Christine Foy. Foy ~ret;zes through her role as the stghmg, swooning, isn't-love-wonderful busy­body aunt, and has a fine sef_lse of comic timing and expres.siOn. When Catherine :>,nd Morns are planning to elope, Lavina pouts "Oh, I so wish I could go with you. •• In the play' slighter moments, Foy steals the show. 
Other brief but noteworthy per­
formances include Theresa Rebeck as 
Marie, the Irish maid, Anne Patter­
son as Catherin's kindly Aunt Eliza­
beth, Kate Goerner as her ever-beam 
ing daughter, Marian, and Brian 
Wolfe as Arthur Townsend, Marian's 
fiancee. Lisa Jaquez plays Mrs. 
Montgomery, Morris widowed sister, 
who valiantly tries to protect her 
brother when Dr. Sloper barrages her 
with questionsabouthis character. 
An impressive array of hooped 
skirts and gowns bonnets, and men's 
suits, stiched by Diana Hawfield's 
costume crew, along with a well­
furnished set, adds to the ninteenth 
century atmosphere of the play. 
The Heiress will be performed again 
Dec. 6, 7, and 8 at O'Laughlin Hall at 
8 p.m. Student and faculty tickets 
are $3, $4 for general admission. For 
reservations call the ticket office at 
284-4176. 

carnage of his benevolence in the decapitated heads and lacerated bod­ies hanging from bamboo trees, I did not get the feeling that he is a genume monster. I mean, how bad can anyone be who elucidates the poetry of T. S. Eliot as well as Brando? Or a man whose vision is deep enough to ascertain the incipi­ent horror, and genius, of an enemy without feeling, morals, or reason? 
The horror which Kurtz describes (th~ Viet Cong hacking off the vaccinated arms of children, one by one) is authentic. However, the impression made is somewhat muf­fled, misty, even uninspiring. It doesn't galvanize that gut-level feel­ing ofoutrage and existential nausea, the kind felt when confronted nakedly with the blackest evil or an irredeem­able atrocity. I do not fault Coppola or' Brando, but attribute this short­coming to the intrinsic limitation of film itself, a medium wt.kh attempts to capture those cavernous depths in the soul of humanity, and do it in a way that is dramatically comprehen­sible to a mass audience. 
Near the end, the film magnificently depicts the ritualistic cult slaughter of a bull to parallel tht .simultaneous termination of Kurtz at the hands "Jf Willard. 
As the credits are shown, the film culminates as spectacularly as it began. A search and destroy mission extinguishes the remnani:s of Kurtz's hamlet. This glowing, polychromat­. ic spectacle is a breathless repre­sentation of the Pentagon vs. Angkor Wat, of B-52s vs.wooden arrows, of insanity vs. intractability, of power vs. peasantry, of West vs.East. 
Duvall is a giant in his role, which should easily garner him an Osca~. Sheen is quietly excellent, an enlg­matic chronicler who possesses the necessary dispassion to. transcend the 
stultifying lunacy of hts comrades. Apocalypse Now is an awesome piece of entertainment, a power house of unrivaled proportion. is an epic by which future ftlms ofthis genre will inevitably be compared. 'Don't iniss it for the wofld. 
The Observer Monday, December 3, 1979 -page 8 
• • . Press 

[continued from page 4} 
said. "We have a chance of doing it because we have a book coming up in January by Wil­liam Faulkner, that will prob­ably sell many copies." 
The University Press also hopes to get some endowment money from the endowment fund. The drive seeks to raise two million dollars to endow the press. "If they did raise the two million dollars,'' Langford concluded, "this coupled with the book club would give us all we need to become one of the top university presses 10 the country.'' 
• • . WSND 
[continued from page 1} 
programs 10 Rome, Japan, Innsbruck and France. The program has also invited Dean Roemer and the Director of Security, Glenn Terry, to be guests on the show. 
''The standardization of/ro­cedures has been followe up on," Roemer said, "and they've developed written pro­cedures that govern the oper­ations of the station so that problems, such as in the past, 
. won't be repeated." 
WSND ·has also made personnel changes, according to Roemer, and they've acted on the proposals concerning the employees involved. 
''There were things that I proposed, however, that haven't been done,'' Roemer added. Roemer suggested that some kind of advisory board be established so that there is continuity of direction each year when new managers take over. 
Both Roemer and O'Brien agreed that there is a need for continuity between outgoing and incoming management, 
THE
~ND 
HEIRESS
SMC 
at 8:00P.M. 
THf_,~Tf~f 
OH!:C!!LlN 
Pho!le: 284·4176 AliD:TC~!lJM 
Buy CILA Chtlstmas Catds 
You can make a good thing happen see out dorm rep 

made up of the top seven management people. 
''The people -ro whom the chief executive is accountable are people who work for him,'' Roemer added, "and that doesn't seem to me to be a proper kind of board.'' 
O'Brien does not feel that such an advisory board . is necessary. "There are no boards that Dean Roemer is talking about in professional broadcasting," O'Brien said, "and we won't let sn'Tleone 
[continued on page 5] 
Whtm in Southern Calilnrnia visit t;J~I~J'~~~ STUDIOS TOUR 

1-" 

UNIVtR&AL PIC1UR£S and COLUMBIA PICTURES Plesenl
. 
DAN AYKROYD ·NfD BfAJTY ·JOHN BHUSHI·lORRAINf GARY· MURRAY HAMilTON· CHRISTOPHfR lff TIM MATHfSON ·TOSHIRO MlfUNf ·WARRfN OATfS ·ROBfRT STACK· TRfAT WilliAMS 
mAn A-leam Ploduclion ol ASTfVENSffiLBtK1l FilM-~l~~; 
IAICY Allfl ·fOOl£ IIHlfl · BOBBY DiCICCO ·DIANN£ KAY ·SUM PICKfNS ·WfNOif JO SPfRBfR ·UONH SJANOfR D~reclor ol Pholograptry VW.UAM AFRAJ\ER. ASC •SaeenDiav bv ROBERl ZEMECKIS &BOB GA\1 Stmy by ROBERT ZEMECKIS &BOB GALE and JOHN MILIUS · MusiC by JOHN W1LLIAMS · Produced by BUZZ FEITSHANS ·Execu!ive Producer JOHN MILIUS · Directed by STEVEN SPIELBERG r..... "' "'"'""'' •oo• ' 
COPJ"9"1 C"lt1t I>T UNIV(ASJO.l Cll:l~T~~1SS ':~SERCv~OUiroiiBI.t, PICTURES INDUSTRI£5 1NC l Ortgtnel Souncltrach Album 011 ARISTA Aeto<dl .,nd flpn l
1 




COMING FOR CHRISTMAS 

and they agree that the present 
organizational structure should be reviewed. There is a difference, however, on how Roemer and 0 'Brien feel that this continuity should be estab. lished. · 
Roemer proposed that an advisory board, made up of students, faculty members, and someone from Student Affairs, would be good because "the management would oove a board to which it is account­able. " At the present time, WSND has an executive board 

The Observer 'Monday, December 3, 1979-page9 


' 

THESE GUYS WON. 
l'KIZE PKIZE 
fl1ark Sn ie9.:owski 

C. J. L·~usirella Sl.OO Diane l'ogest S25,0Q J. Arlr.ans 
~tev" Dillon S5 00 Sl.OQ ... nan '-1rCarthy ~)0,00 Theo Walla .Sl.OO . 

Sl oo

Jj,m Su•qn SlO,OO 
~1.00
Carol flroh inske 
P.rian '-hmo $1,00 
Hrian Mu:-to ~10,00 

Tom Kuatnf"r S.lO 00 l"iln Chipman $~.00

Kevin Campion Torsten ~1arshall 
Jr~nP. ~ani

"ud Lan<lerk Phillip IlayPS _,_,
Tom ~h ileh nan ;.,1 llnJcel anrl
Federico U U!ll!>ert sz.oo 'Janiel J, Petl'rr-_::a____~'-1-'-,n_o_ Kevin O'Lourrhlj._n_ $10.00 Mike r.oocl 

No ~ame $1.00 

{jam..Ilat•• Nov 19 Wt·<'k !lio F-1 2 Color --·-.n.we=-··=-=···~-~=-­
'li.·;uu . Los Aru!eles 0 Redeem Winners by _xc"'--·L<J.....I.~~• ...:.~.uup., m·1"'-1 
., 
,, 

PLAY PRO. FOOTBALL ON MONDAY NIGHTS 
Get a free game ticket everytitne you visit a participating campus food service location. 


AT THE HUDDLE 



. ·-----·-. .., ___________ ...---..... -------· ---· .... --.... ­
The Observer Monday, December 3, 1979-page 10 

,.....------------------------------------------------. crease from his brother Scott 
Molarity 

DOONESBURV 

(THE Daily Crossword by David A. scuuy 
mineral Becky 5 Reel's 31 "I'll companion have-of 


8 Styptic sables" 12 Hodgepodge 32 Hockey's 13 Ruler in Bobby 
preserves 34 Frequently 16 Appearance 35 Graceful 17 -majesty bird 18 Abalone 36 Numero­19 Golden GatE) 37 Bistros 
site 38 Shoe or 22 Pied Piper moon 
targets 39 Rickets 23 Scorch 41 "-of gol· 24 School den dallo­
assignment dils" 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


© 1979 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 
L__;A~I~IR~i~g~ht~s~R~e~se~r:ve~d~----------------==========:!..,_:~~sl~ee~v~e--~5~0_!1~am:!!b2:·.!e~.g:;_._ 



RIVER CITY RECORDS 
notthetn ln,dlana 's latgest tecotd and tape selection C\nd conceit ticket headquatteIS 
$l.OOOFF any.album or tape exp1res Dec. 24, 1979 (limit l coupon per person) 

1&,000 albums and tap•• In stock ND/snlC student ch.cka acc•pt•d fot up to 
120.00 ov•t putchaa• amount Op•n ·.o to 10, 7 daya a w••k 


Rivet City Recotds 50970 U.S. 31 Notth 

I 
3 mil•• nolth of campus 
277-42~2 
.....! ...
.............................. 
•G&T rr J[Y£THER, Ger rr ON, 
AND 6ET fT OveR Wt1J1. YOU ARE /NVITW 7D A StvENTIES REVIW4L.. 
ll/?55: {}/5CO/MEUIJW. • 



DETROIT BUS!!! SIGN-UP TUES. DEC 4th 7:00 pm LAFORTUNE THEATRE 

r ·•· 

by Garry Trudeau 
1?/GHT. IA!e'RE A COME­ASKIM3 cvti/zy­A5-YOU-A!?C OVE70TAI<& PAKTY? R£5FW5/Bif)JYI R:JI?. HIS OMV 
42 43 44  CompletedDies _ Market  24  "Is Itbigger _ breadbox?"  
district  25  Devastation  
at 19 A  26  Kefauver  
51  Near  27  ··-the win·  
52 Suffix lorkitchen or farmer  28  ter of ourdiscontent'' Ed Asner  
53 Margarine  role  
54  Conditions  29  Whitetailed  
55  -Bien Phu  bird  

56 Decorate r-30 Stimulate again 31 Great race­
57 Cuts down horse 58 Before: 34 Western pre!. novel 59 Cozy home 35 Footwear 
~~tlike
37

DOWN animals 
1 Boy and cat
2 Inter -38 Artte or 
3 Property Irwin 
right 40 Words to 4 Colleague express 5 Tell boredom 6 Auguries 41 Detective 7 Record Lupin
8 Dawn 43 Between: 
g Entree meat prel. 10 Eye part 44 -morgana 11 Moore or 45 Wild goat 
15 Walker word 
20 Boat slope 49 Crimson and Kind of claret
21 

... Meredith 
[continued from page 12] 

Meredith assisted on Devine's goal, but scored the final two to ~ive Notre Dame its first victory m nine games in Madison. With Wisconsin's Jim Scheid off for interference, Meredith scored his first goal on a deflection of a ] eff Brown­schidle slapshot from the right point. The Irish captain beat goalie Roy Shultz at 8:31 of the second period to give Notre Dame a 3-2 lead. 
Then at 13:28 Notre Dame's John Higgins and Badger Dave Speer erupted into a fight after Speer had hit Higgins across the back with his stick. Both rlayers were disqualified from the ~arne, and Higgins received a mmor penalty for roughing. 
Wisconsin took advantage of the power play with a goal by Todd Lecy at 15:51 to even the score at 3-3. Todd had taken the puck on a pass across the 
and had plenty of room to slip it by Irish goalie Bob McNamara. Meredith scored the game winner at 6:17 of the third period when he grabbed a rebound of a Brownschidle slapper, skated to the right of 
Schultz and backhanded it over the sprawled Badger goalie. 
McNamara played superbly for the Irish in the third period, stopping all 12 Wisconsin at-
Th B d 1 h d
tempts· e a gers a so a two power play opportunities in the final 20 minutes. 
"McNamara came up with the key sa":es ~~r . us Saturday•." sa1d Smuh. · H1s play was a b1g
factor." 

Friday night Griffin paced 'Wisconsin's victory with his first career hat trick. He beat Irish goalie Dave Laurion's glove hand in the first period on a power pia~ at 5:25, mcreased 
the Badger ead to 3-0 at 4:04 of the second, and scored his third goal at 14:19 of the final period. Laurion argued that a Wiscon­
sin player-was in the crease on the last goal, and received a 10 minute misconduct penalty for 
his protests. McNamara played 
_Jthe final six minutes in the nets :or Notre Dame. 



Waiters/ 
• 

w~ttresses 
Shb _available 3pm-llpm llnm-7am
.I 
e enjoy top pay efrt:e insurance epa1d vacations e profit sharing 

full or part time positions available apply in person at 


Denny's 

52626 US 31 N equal opportunity employer 


Need ride to Rochester, NY for Christ­OK you guys from Morrissey. This time mas. Call Jim. 1539. we'll have the victory. You won last time,

Notices For Rent Tickets 
want to try again?? Call us up and tell us Mandatory Typist meeting Wed., Dec. 5 GRATEFUL DEAD tickets needed for
Part-time bartender wanted. Minimum when. 
We rent dependable cars.. trom ~r .\l!l a 
wage to start Hours flexible. 289-4709. Lewis 2-S
at 6:30-0BSERVER Office. Jim. Chicago. Monday or Wednesday night.
day and 7 cents a mile. Ugly Duckling 
Call Pat 233·5686.

Rent-a-Car. 921 E. Jefferson Blvd. 
218 lyons is proud to announce KateUsed Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 
Mishawaka, Ind. 255-2323. 
Goerner's 191h birthday, line up early for9-7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Rd. 
Desperately need: 2 tickets for UCLA birthday _kisses. 
~
Niles. 683-2888. 
3-bedroom efficiency home clean and basketball game. Call Jerry 232-6296.

For Sale 
comfortable, partially furnished, all gas. Tara K.,
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
Area tWYCKENHAM AND Corby. For Sale: 1973 Toyota Carella 4-door, 35 (Queen of the Lyon's Foxes), How about
Last day to apply for loans before X-mas 
287-7975 after 5:00. MPG, air conditioning, FM, S-track a date, or better yet, would you marry

Personals
break is Dec. 12. $20-$200. One percent 
stereo, excellent condition 232-5484 or me?
interest. M-F. 11:30-12:30. 
Furnished apt. for rent kitchen facilities, 288-6350. Great party 823! (We're expecting lots Love, very close to campus, $175/month call 
more next semester!) Tile Buckeye
Professional typing. Quick 1day service. 289-5406, 272·2720 after 5:30. 3 WHO tickets for sale. Call 1824. Will pick up and deliver. Call Jan Patti,
Renegade-­

282-1805 or 684-1414. Room for rent--near rides. $45.00 per For Sale: '68 Impala V-8, PS, PB, Air, • f1appy 20th! We'll makeup for it I love you . month. 233-1329. very clean $550.00. Call 233-2395 after 5. 
Saturday at. Guiseppe's. M.H. 
Professional typist. IBM Selectric II. 
Panama 
Mrs. Burnore. Near Campus. 272-3134. Room for rent. Mature, clean, respons­Kenwood amp and speakers for sale. Call 
In reference to Wednesday's Molarity.....
ible student only. Furnished kitchen and Bernie 287·0864. 
Huff, It's feisty WRENCH not wench. (Just ask
Will do typing--reasonable·-neat-·accur­laundry privileges. Call 289-0103 nights Have a wonderful 20th birthday. You're anv silly savage...you know!!)
ate--Call 287-5162. and weekends or 232-6181 days. 4tickets to Dec. 8Chicago Who Concert. 
a great pool partner! We'll celebrate atTom 233-9129. Goose's. Anyone interested In taking a chartered 
Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 277-0296. Student house for rent, second semester. Little Goose bus to the Warren, Youngstown, OH area Walking distance to campus. Nice. Call Pair of B&W OM 2-A speakers. $450 for X-mas break, call Mark 1870 or Carl Alterations for men's and women's 272-1729 after 5:00. (reg. $850). Call 232-8783 after 6 p.m. 
Chris Lyons sleeps with ared, white, and 6726 by Dec. 10. 
clothing. Call 255-6275. 
blue teddy bear.

For Sale: 15 watt/channel Technics Rosemary,Detroit Bus!!!! Round trip $20.110. Wanted receiver-·-$90. Chris Lyons wants to be buried in the If our demands are not met within 48 
Sign-up Tuesday Dec. 4th 7:110 p.m. -New Pioneer cassette tape deck·--$100. Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. hours, "Animule" will be sent to Tehran [Lafortune Theatre) or-call Mary ·Technics manual turntable with ADC and tried as aspy.
Need member of ND-SMC community to
288-5465. drive new car to Seattle, Wash. and cartridQe-··$50. Chris Lyons' motto is 'Mom, Apple pie, Saint Marys Liberation Army
CaiiScoop at 1771. 
and Harry S. Truman.'

return in 1979 car after Christmas break.
Meeting for Campaign Chairmen of Mock KEVIN HART IS 23 TODAY!!!
Call 232·0453.
Convention-tonlte at 7 p.m. In 2-D For Sale: oversized chair--great for any K.M.A., Chris Lyons.
Lafortune. dorm room! $10 call the 911 Club at 1771. !!!!!!SOPHOMORES!!!!!!
Need ride to Philadelphis, New Jersay All SMC sophomores Interested In work· WILL SMC BEAT ND??? Come to thearea for Christmas break. Will help with
Sign up for bus to Wash. D.C. Wed. and For Sale: ing on the production cre\\f'OR the talent game and find out. It's SMC Sophomore
gas $$$$$$--Dan 1502.
thurs. 7-9 p.m. 2nd floor LaFortune. Sony TC-558 ~eel-to-reel. Auto reverse show for Parents weekend, there will be a night at the B-ball game: Tuesday tape deck. Three motors six heads ·and meeting Tuesday, December 4th from December 4th at 7:00 p.m. at Ange1a.
Ride needed to Daytona Beach, Fla for 
many other features. Two sure 589-S 7:30-8:110 in room 203 H. C. Please After the game enjoy apizza party in 'he
Christmas. Can leave December 18. Call 
mics included. Must sell. Call Gene at attenll!!! Questions???? Call Anita. Snack Bar for only $1. Come out andDamian at 1197.

Lost&Found 
1743 or 288-7387. 4280. support our team!!! ! FOUND: Contact lens In case. Call6635. WANTED: Riders to N.W. Iowa for 
HOLIDAY SALE!! $25 worth of free To my favorite Happy hour buddy, (Mark M. Galvin,Christmas. To share usual. Call Dean books to first place winner plus 2nd and 
Perry), The taller you are:FOUND: Before break In LaFortune small 232-1150. 
3rd prizes. Also many gift items: books, Happy Birthday ·the more people stare...
silver pen with the Initial ·' B" attached book sets, calendars and games. Special 
Remember Tramps like us ... (now, -the thinner the air....
by a small chain. Lost and Found Adm. BEACH LOVERS! Part-time student sales throughout season. Visit PAN· 
doesn't that bring back memories.) -the harder the fall. ...
Bldg. sales representative position available for DORA'S BOOKS, 937 South Bend, Ave., 
Have a blast--you're only 22 once!! -the smaller the hall .. .. 
Spring semester. Job involves promoting near Eddy. 
Love, Pam ·the shorter the pants... .
LOST: c-3 parking lot, Tuesday before high quality sun trips on campus for 
P.S. The Observer party is coming up!!! -the wider the stance.. .. 
Thanksgiving Break. Stocking hat, hand commission and free traval. Call or write For Sale: 1 student season basketball ·the farther a seat....
knitted, brown, loose-fitting. Reward for an application.-Summit Travel, Inc. 
ticket, padded seat, Call Greg 3662. 
Marge, ·the bigger the feet.. .. (really?!) hhmm! 65201 (800) 325-0439. 
offered. Call 289-5964. Parkade Plaza, Suite11, Columbia, MO 
Happy Birthday. See you in Burger 1'11\ook you in the eye and say that...butLike new--4-shelf bookcase--dark wood 
King. will you be able to look back???
Clothes on hangars behind Zahm Management Positions available. Excel­tone (press board) $15.00. Call 7062 EarlCall Rick at 288·2023. 
Theresa. Applicants must be under 26 years old. Happy Birthday, Katie Goerner!!! 
lent starting salary with planned raises. STEVE RINEY, 
One navy blue, down parka. If Wish you had stayed to watch us at the
American Airlines--half-fare coupons-­
College seniors and graduates call (312) Love, M.
have any idea of its whereabouts $20 each. Call Xavier 8676. tables on Friday, we needed some good
657-2169, collect or send resume to: Naval Officer Consultants NAS Bldg. 41, Oh there's nothing I'd rather be..... coaching. Next time you want good 
For Sale: '72 Nova VB, P.S. P.B., A/C,
Glenview, IL, 60026. than a arboreal monkey In a Keenan match call 41-4217 and we'll be ready.
Dungeons and dragons Players 
new tires. Engine in excellent condition. 
Tree!!!!

on first floor Grace. Five Uttle Goose and Haff
NEEDED: Ride to and from Lansing/ $1050 or B.O. Mike 3770. Happy Monday George.
dollar reward for return, no questions 
MSU area the weekend of Dec. 7·9. Dave Piech,
asked. Return to 309 Grace. Phone 1621. For Sale: Student season B·ball ticket
Please call Maria at 277·3077. Call 4434 to wish Susan a Happy Thanks for skiing. It was. great.
padded seat best offer. Call 1057. 
Birthday. 

Marilyn 
~----------------~~~~~~~------~---------~-------------------·-~ 
._ 
~ -• ...fNF". .-• 
• • • ND 


The Observer 
·n~w · players are going to against Cedarville, had her own
[continuecf from page 12] 
respond to competition, and I impressions of her first a~;>pear­Petro is the play of Matvey, a liked what I saw at Taylor. We ance in a Notre Dame umform.
native of Austintown, Ohio, 
got to play everybody this ''I was pretty nervous onwho graduated from the same weekend, and if we can iron out Friday," she said, "and since I hish school as former Irish a few ·wrinkles, we'll be didn't start, I had even moregndiron star Mike Calhoun. 
alright.'' time to think about it. Then,"Shari Played well this week­
Matvey, who scored 22 points when I got into the game, I felt I end, as did all our new people," and had 15 rebounds (team had something to prove toPetro commented. "You're highs in both catagories) myself and to Sharon. Once Ialways concerned about how 
got started though, I was OK. I guess the most impressive thing about the weekend was commg onto the court while the 
Victory March was playing in the background.'' 
• • • Valpo 
[continued from page 12] Nance opened their season on guard Rich Branning had 14 Friday with 93·7.1 win over St. points in addition to four as­Cloud State. sists. Freshman center Tim Notre Dame's first road game Andree had 13 points, while is Wednesday at Northwestern, Jackson and Paxson had 12 with tipoff slated for 8:35 E.ST. 
• • • Belles 
each. Woolridge, starting his first 
NOTRE DAME 92, VALPARAISO 66 
game as Irish center, scored 
[continued from page 12]
only six points -· all three 
VALPARAISO (66): Cobb 3 0-1, Simmons
baskets bemg slam dunks ·· but tied the game at 61. Tracee
10 8·13 28, Smith 1 0-2 2, Markle 1 Q-0 2,hauled down 12 rebounds and Hudson 85-7 21, Maass 1Q-0 2, Sickles 0 Q-0 Hargreaves saved the Belle blocked three shots. 0, Gingrich 00-0 0, Macahon 01-2 1, Ploetz 2 effort hitting a field goal with 
In addition to Simmons' 28 Q-0 4, Dillard 0 Q-0 0, Benigni 0 0-0 0, nine seconds remaining for the Bugaieski 0 0-0. Totals 26 14-25 66.
points, freshman guard Julian 63-61 squeaker.
NOTRE DAME (92(: Jackson 6 0-0 12,Hudson collected 21 points. Tripucka 8 6-6 22, Woolridge 3 0·0 6, It was a great comeback Nobody else had more than six. Branning 70·114, Wilcox1 0·0 4, Mitchell 1 victory, a real team effort. Simmons led the Crusaders 0-0 2, Paxson 44-512, Varner 0Q-0 0, Andree Winmng your first ~arne is 5 3-4 13, Salinas 2 3·5 7, Healy 0 0-Q 0,
with 12 rebounds. always a big mental lift, but I
Hawkins 0 o-o 0 Kelly 0 Q-0 0. Totals 38
The Irish will go up against a was especially pleased with the
16,21 92. much bigger team tonight (8:00 Halftime Notre Dame 43, Valparaiso 29. poise of our younge players in 
p.m. tipoff) as Iowa State Total Fouls: Valparaiso 17, Notre Dame 21. the uphill struggle. ~very one Fouled Out: None.
mvades the ACC. Led by 6-11, on the team contributed to the
Technical Foul: Hudson247-pound center Dean Uthoff, Turnovers: Valparaiso 25, Notre Dame 19. win--I'm proud of them all," 
the Cyclones of coach Lynn Attendance: 11, 345 (c emphasized a jubilant Dallessio 





Classifieds 
Monday, December 3, 1979 -page 11 
LOOK! 
THE OBSERVER WILL PUBLISH IT'S LAST ISSUE BEFORE BREAK ON FRI 
DEC. 7th, . 

THERE WILL BE A SPECIAL SECTIO 
OF CLASSIFIED CHRISTMAS GREETINGS 

TO PLACE YOUR PERSONAL IN THIS SECTION COME TO THE BSERVER OFFICE BETWEEN THE 
HOURS OF 10-2 MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
DEADLINE IS 2:00 ON WED. DEC. 5th 

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Obatrvw office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 
Monday, December 3, 1979 -page 12

SRorts • 
Notre Dame's early rally keys win over Valparaiso 
by Paul Mullaney po points before intermission 
Assistant Sports Editor brought the visitors to within 14 
points, 43-29, at the half. 

It only took two-and-a-half But the .Irish outscored the minutes for Valparaiso coach Crusaders by 12 points in the Ken Rochlitz to call his first second stanza and coasted to timeout in Saturday's 92-66 loss their first victory of the season. to ~,1tre Dame at the ACC. "We ended up shooting 54 
The Irish had reeled off the percent, and I can't complain first eight points of the ball about that,'·' noted Phelps. gamt'--two of them on a picture ''I'm excited about the enthusi­perfect Orlando Woolridge asm of this team, and getting slam dunk from Tracy Jack­the kids the confidence they son's behind-the-back pass-­need. when Rochlitz decided that he ''We've got some bugs to iron had seen enough. out, like on the defensive 
"We told our kids that the first boards.'' five or so minutes would be the The Irish outrebounded Valpo, most important,'' said the Cru­45-41, but many offorwardjeff sader coach."And that's where Simmons' game-high 28 points we lost it. came on second and third 
"You can't come back against efforts by the Crusader sopho­a team like the caliber of Notre more. Dame if you give 'em that much ''Valparaiso rebounded right 
of_an ed~e." . . with us,'' Phelps added. 
1 he Insh, tn thetr 1979-80 "We'll have to adjust on the season debut, had built up a bgards. Rebounding is going to 20-8 lead before coach Digger be our big key this year.'' Phelps replaced his five starters When the Irish did come away with a fresh lineuf. midway with the defensive rebound, 
through the first hal . however, they managed to capi­
And by the 5:18 mark, fifth­talize on 15 fast break oppor­ranked Notre Dame had posted tunities. the game's widest margin at "They're not the same type of 38-12, as sophomore guard power team as last year," said Mike Mitchell had five quick r Rochlitz of the Irish, who also steals and freshman cohort opened their season a year ago 
John Paxson scored 10 quick with a win over Valpo. "Their points during their first-half transition from defense to of­stint. fense was great. It was 
"It was obvious that we definitely a problem for us.'' wanted to see what our bench Notre Dame's depth was also a could do, as well as our starting problem for the Crusaders. 
five," said Phelps. "You just While nine Irish scored in the look for your spurts to get it contest, five of them hit double done. We didn't go out to win figures. by 40 points, we just wanted to Forward Kelly Tripucka led 
get the job done." the hosts with 22 pomts, while The job was done early by the 
[continued on page 11]
Irish, although 10 straight Val-


Dame has lost 20 and won only 

ND takes Taylor Tournament 
by Mark Hannuksela Sports Wn'ter 

It's always nice to open the season with a win. Two wins rnakes for double pleasure. So v.hy was coach Sharon Petro not overly elated about the Notre Dame women's basketball team's pair of opentng 
victories? 

"I guess it's because I'm worried about Michigan (this Saturday's opponent)," stated Petro, in her third year as coach at Notre Dame. "We were in 
an up-and-down phase this weekend, and we just can't co11tinue to be that inconsistent and expect to do well against a team ltke Michigan. We will definitely have to work on that this week." 
From a statistical standpoint, Petro has to be pleased, because her team came home Saturday night as the champ­ions of the Taylor University tournament. They opened with a 68-60 win over always tough Marion College, and then went on to defeat Cedarville College of Ohio in the finals, 73-60. In both contests, the Irish played their !>trongest basketball in the first half. 
Against Marion, a team which beat the Irish in last year's regular season, 65-63, Notre Dame built a 34-26 lead by halftime, and then played to a 34-34 standoff in the second half. 
Two centers, freshman Shari Matvey and sophomore Tricia McManus, led the way for the Irish. Matvey, in her debut as a Notre Dame player, scored 21 points, pulled down 14 rebounds, and added six blocked shots to lead the team in all three catagories. McMan­us added 14 points and grabbed 11 rebounds. Senior co-captain Molly Cashman was the only other player in double figure~, as he chipped in with 11 points. 
Jane Polttiski, who set a team scoring record when she fired in 29 points in the two-point loss to Marion last year, was not as effective this time around, scorin~ only six points and grabbmg four rebounds. 
In defense of her 5-11 center, Petro said "Jane really didn't feel well all weekend. She was battling a terrible cold, and I'm really surprised that she was able to play as well as she did under the circumstances. Saturday she came back and had an outstanding game, and she still hasn't fully recovered.'' , 
Outstanding might be the only way to describe Politiski's _per­formance against Cedarvtlle, because the senior co-captain scored 18 points, and added eight rebounds to help the Irish to their 13-point win. Again it was a case of the Irish jumping out to an early lead. They outscored their OJ?ponents 3 7-22 in the first 20 mmutes of play, only to be outscored 38-36 in the second half. Thirteen turnovers contributed to the second half drop. 
by Bn(m Beglane Sports Wn'ter 
MADISON, Wis.-Overall, the memories the Notre Dame hoc­key team carries from the Dane County Memorial Coliseum are not good. 
That is not surprising when you consider the record the Irish post there against their oldest Western Collegiate Hockey Association rival, Wis­consin. In 24 games at the Dane "rumble rink," Notre 
''I wish I knew how to correct turnovers, because that's one thing that has plagued us for each of our three years,'' Petro stated. ''For some reason, they don't phase our players too much, but maybe that's because we don't get burned on them enough. Of course I hope it never comes to that, but it still worries me." 
One thing that does not worry 
-[continued on page 11] 
four. 
But for now, the memories the Irish have are not so bad. The reason is win number four, which Notre Dame collected via a 4-3 victory over the Badgers Saturday night. That win followed a 5-2 Wisconsin tri­umph in the series OJ?ener Friday, and gave the Insh a split in their last WCHA series before Christmas break. 
Notre Dame finishes up the first half of the regular schedule this weekend with two non-lea­gue contests, one at Bowling Green Friday and the other at home versus Western Michigan Sunday afternoon. The Irish take a 5-5 league record into exam week, and are 8-5 overall. 
Wisconsin is 6-6 in WCHA play and 7-6 overall. 
"You're never happy when you lose one,'' said Notre Dame coach Lefty Smith. "But when you consider the misfortune we faced, I've got to say it was pleasing to come back for the win Saturday." 
Most si~mficant among the absent Insh Friday night was senior captain Greg Meredith, who missed the game because of a Rhodes Scholarship inter­view back in his native Toronto. 
He flew into Madison Satur­day afternoon in time enough, however, to pace the Insh victory with two goals and one assist. Included in those two scores was the game winner. 
"I don't want to take anything away from anyone else,'' said Smith, "but special recognition certainly should be paid to Meredith, and also to Tom Michalek. Both players were just outstanding. Michalek had to carry the leadership burden Friday. ni.ght alone when Greg was m1ssmg. 
''Then Saturday night both players logged an incredible amount of ice time. For them to perform as they did has to pick up the rest of the team. The vah(e of Greg to our club was shown in the goal scoring column as well on Saturday." 
Irish players Jeff Logan and Pat Devine, who was flayin~ before his hometown o Madt­son, exchanged goals in the first period with Badgers Lexi Doner and Ron Griffin for a 2-2 score after the first 20 minutes. 
[continued on page 10] 

Belles falter after opening victory 
by Beth Huffman Women's Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's basketball season started out a little like the month of March. The Belles roared like a lion with a 63-61 win at Indiana Central on Thursday, but crept out like a lamb with a 74-641oss at Illinois Benedictine College on Satur­day. 
Anne Armstrong, one of the team's seven freshmen, hit double figures in both games to lead all scorers in the contest. Armstrong, a Slyvania, Ohio 
native,  collected  23  points  
against  Benedictine  and 18  
versus Central.  

In Saturday night's loss, Benedictine grabbed the early lead, but the Belles managed to narrow the margin and finally tied the game at half, 38-38, 
with a stubborn full-court press. 
Saint Mary's and Benedictine tossed the lead back and forth in the second period, but mid­way through the half IBC took command, 60-50, and never relented that lead. As the half closed the Belles' full-court press again helped the -Saint 
Mary's effort, but unlike  the  
first  half,  that  aid  was  not  
enough.  

"We just did poor funda­mentally," commented the Belles' head coach Jerry Dalles­sio after the loss. ''Our passing was terrible. We didn't re­bound, and our defense was the worst I've ever seen. I was very proud though, that the players never gave up and were playing hard to the buzzer.'' 
Dallessio emphasized that Sat­urday's rather unimpressive used to playing together. But we have a lot of talent and once we get confidence in ourselves and among the teamates, we'll surprise a lot of teams,'' of­fered Delassio. 
play  in  the  loss  does  not  
dishearten him.  
'We're  a  young  team,  not  

Thursday's game presented a totally different look at Saint Mary's squad. The Belles again had to play catch up ball, but with Indtana Central. The Greyhounds pulled to an early lead, but the Belles closed the ~ap to. 2?-22 at the half-time Intermtsston. 
Late in the second half after trailing 46-38 at one point, a spark lit the Belles. The Saint Mary's team took the lead and fous.ht off a Greyhound attack, unul near the buzzer Central 
[continued on page 11] 





