• • • Kegs-page 6 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1979
VOL. XIV, NO. 22 
Morrissey to get fire escape Saint Mary's rejects
after two year struggle 
United Way
by John McGrath the way to the ground, we'd 
Senior StaffReporter have a problem with illegal 
by Margie Brassil 
entry.'' 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
The wheels of University Apparently, the design prob­bureaucracy have finally gotten lems have now been worked The Saint Mary's Board of
around to the concerns of out. John Moorman, assistant Governance voted not to admin­Morrissey Hall residents about director of maintenance, laid ister the annual United Waythe lack ofa fire escape to serve out some of the specifications Campaign this year. When thethe 22 students in the dorm's for the project yesterday. The 
chapel wing. escape will consist of a ladder first vote failed to get a majority It has taken two years, but extending from the fourth floor opinion, a second vote was 
taken showing eight members
plans have at last been finalized window level i:o the roof of the against, six members for and
for the installation of a series of chapel. Access to the ladder ladders to facilitate the emer­can be gained through third and one member abstaining in sup­
port of the campaign. 
gency exit of residents in the fourth floor windows. A second two "dead-end" hallways on ladder will extend from the Explaining the Board's posi­
chapel roof to ground level. tion, Student Body Presidentthe third and fourth floors of 
the chapel wing. Moorman estimated the total Pia Trigiani said, ''The majority In the early morning hours of cost of the project at $3,800. of the board concurred that it is The are not the place of the Board
Sept. 10, 1977, a fire raged ladders now being to 
center their energies upon the
through one of the rooms on the fabricated, he said, and if all third floor. The fire caused an goes according to schedule. the United Way Campaign. They estimated $40,000 damage, escapes should be operable do however feel that Saint 
Mary's should participate in
including heat, smoke, 'and by mid-October. 
water damage to the chapel, The question of time delay charitable functions and raising which is situated directly below still remains, however,'.especial­money for charities for worth­the two sections in question. ly in light of the fact that a while organizations, but they 
will not support administrative­
No one was injured in the fire, simple ladder system has been ly the United Way Campaign. 
but it aroused concern about dec1ded upon. the safety of residents in the ''I really don't know why they The Board still supports the 
goals of the United Way, it is
third and fourth floor corridors­went to the ladder instead of both of which have only one the stairs,'' Luther commented. just not the decision of the exit. ''But anything they put up at Board to administer it." 
The Board reached its deci­I know that I started proceed­this point will be adequate." 
sion after a presentation by Edings {to have the escape con­Luther added that he is Drummond, Planning Director
structed) the very first week I standing by his statement made came here (August 1978)," in yesterday's Observer about United W~v plea for the St. ] oseph County 
Ed Dru1pmond represented the St_. ]oseph County United
recalled Bro. Ed Luther, rector the project's delay. Luther was [continued on page 4]
Way office at St. Mary's last night. [photo by Ken Berumen}
of Morrissey. "But up until quoted at that time as saying, this time, I have just not been "I can't understand it. I feel able to get any satisfaction from they {Maintenance) have been 2, 600 square miles
them (Maintenance author­dragging their heels on the ities)." whole project.'' Contacted yesterday, Donald Part of the problem may lie in Dedrick, director of main­the backlog of maintenance 


Israel releases land to Egypt 
tenance, reported, "It's (fire department priority projects. escape) been ordered and we're While he described the TEL AVIV Israel (AP) -as the two countries prepared ·to the issue of autonomy for thejust waiting for it to be put in.'' Morrissey fire escape as a 

Israel turned over 2,600 square resume autonomy negotiations. more than one million ArabsAsked why the project has been "priority" project, Dedrick miles of Sinai wilderness to ''Both sides are contributing to living under Israeli occupationdelayed until now, he ex­acknowledged that the deficient Egypt Tuesday as part of the peace, and both sides are on the West Bank of the Jordanplained, ''There was a q_uestion situation in the chapel wing's Egyptian-Isr~eli peace treaty, making sacrifices for peace," River and in the Gaza Strip. 
of design--we were worned that escape routs "didn't really but sharp differences on self­said Israeli Brig. Gen. Dov Sion Israel has accepted severalif the escape was extended all [continued on page 5] rule for Palestinians remained as he turned over control of a talks, including the establish­triangular sector of south-cent­ment of technical committees to ral Sinai to Egyptian Brig. Gen. work out details concerning

In Washin!{ton Saf-el-Din Avu Shoaf. agriculture, education and fi­''We have achieved more in nancefor the West Bank gov­peace than we have by all our ernmnet. 
wars,'' Sion added. The suggestions, brought by That sentiment was also special U.S. Mideast envoy stressed yesterday by Prime Robert Strauss two weeks ago, 


Duggan attends conference 
Ellen Buddy cussions included major minority','' Holland said. 
Minister Menachem Begin, do not touch the delicate issueSaint Mary's Editor education legislation favoring Harris encouraged the in speech of the legal status of ansmall colleges. The quality of presidents of women's colleges who said a that agreement with Egypt was only autonomy government. IsraelIt was an historic first last women's education and the to become members of HEW the start of an overall peace in wants the body to have narrow­week when the Department of involvement of women in bio­advisory boards. At present the Middle East. ly defined powers, while Egypt Health, Eduation and Welfare medical research. there are three such presidents "It never occurred to us ... is pushing for a more indepen­(HEW) met with the Women's In the final evening meeting serving on boards and there are · that we should sign a treaty of dent government. 
College Coalition (WCC) in discussion leaders reported to 124 womens colleges in this peace and then say, 'enough,"' The mountainous regionWashington. The main issue of all the presidents on the differ­country. 
Begin stated. He repeated his turned over to Egypt Tuesday is the secretarty' s conference on ent sessions during the day. At Her third proposal was to calls to Jordan and Syria to join populated by about 3,000women's colleges was equity in this time the final preparations develop a program within sixty 
the peace ta,lks. Bedouinand contains no impor­
education, were made for the next day's days to communicate to wo­1 Israeli and Egyptian honor tant Israeli military installa­Saint Mary's Coll~ge, HEW conference. men's colleges the programs guards and bands accompanied tions. It is in the south-central member of the wee, was Secretary of HEW, Patricia and ~rants that are available for the brief military ceremony at part of the peninsula, whichrepresented by President ] ohn Roberts Harris, opened the thelf use. 
Abu Durba, a desert outpost on Israel captured in the 1967M. Duggan and his assistant conference with an address that Harris emphasized that when the Suez Gulf. Israel lowered Mideast war. The area is north Joan Holland. Saint Mary's was praised women's colleges and the colleges are seeking these its flag at the site at 11:25 a.m. of St. Catherine's Monastery atone of fifty women's colleges pointed out that the govern­grants and have question, that local time, and the Egyptian the site revered as the biblicalfrom across the nation that ment has much to learn from they should immediately cal an 
participated. them. HEW representative to settle flag was then raised over the Mount Sinae. area. The ceremony marked Israel is to turn over\ Mt.
According to Holland the Harris made three specific the 'questions. · 
the third time Israel has turned Sinai inNovember, ahead of theWCC met on Monady to pre­recommendations that will "It all seeemed very over a Sinai parcel to Egypt schedule which originally called pare for the HEW conference serve to enhance the relations encouraging to me," Holland under term~ of the March for thertransferto be carried ou1on Tuesday. "There were dis­between women's colleges and said. "We must be active treaty. in]anuary. Egyptian Presideuf cussions on areas of concern to the federal government. First, ourselves and can not leave it to Israeli and Egyptian negotia­Anwar Sadat plans a speci;..l
women's colleges," Holland she. appointed a special assis­HEW to do it all tions resume talks on Palestin­celebration at the site to COIIl­said. tant as liasion for women's The remainder of the · ian self-rule· today in Alexand­memorate the second anniv.:r­
One of the sessions centered colleges, "hoping the federal conference was presented by 
ria, but the two countries have sary of his 'historic trip toaround making a case for government can be more sensi­
[continued on page 5] 
yet to grapple successfully with ] erusalem on Nov. 19, 19n.
women's colleges. Other dis-tive to this 'distinguished 






















News in brief 
Wednesday, September 26, 1979 • page 2 
Robber bun!(les holdup 
Pursuing social justice 
ofDenver dru!(store 
Mayer speaks on materialism. 
DENVER(AP)-A robber the manager had to take bungled a drugstore stickup cover when at least 12 shqts when he fired several bullets were returned. Police said 
by Ma7~ Beth Moran Christianity. Christianity was insoluble. Love translated into 
into his own car, sped past a the shooting from the get­StajJReporter originally a movement which social action makes J. ustice a 
police cruiser, ran out of gas away car was so erratic that 
advocated action against racism reality both home an abroad, a block from the store, the car itself was peppered 
and injustice and a communal according to Mayer. Neither commandeered a truck and 
with shots. After the man 

Pursuing social justice in the way oflife, accordin~ to Mayer. age or infirmity is an excuse to promptly wrecked it, police and woman abandoned their 
Mayer cited phtlosophtcal

absence of love as a motive stop a man from doing his duty
writings of Pope John Paul II,gasless car, the man 

results in a world drenched in to his fellow man.
say. Police said that a man who wrote that capitalism andcommandeered a Mountain 
blood, according to Dr. Milton Mayer's lecture was co-spon­and a woman entered robbed its free enterprise system exist
Bell telephone company 

Mayer in his lecture here last sored by the General Programa Denver drugstore of more in opposition to Chnstian philo­truck and promptly collided night. The lecture entitled and the Student Union Aca­than $500. The store man-a sophy and social values. "The demic Commission.
with another car, police said 

"Confessions of Bio­A forum 
ager grabbed a gun and gave He was arrested minutes degradable Man" gave struggle is between capitalism will be held tonight for those chase, firing one shot. Then later. 
Mayer's view on the extreme and Christianity; not commu­interested in discussing last materialism of the world today· nism," he said. night's lecture. For further and the injustice inherent in the In speaking of the excessive details contact the General 
materialism of America in this

capitalist economic system. Program Office. 
..Jud!(e declares mistrial 
era Mayer spoke of his disillu­

The proliferation of cults in sionment wtth not only the American society today deeply present political leadership of
in Black Panther case 
disturbed Mayer. He noted President Carter, but also his 
that, historically, cults arise at dismay that this country would Erratum OAKLAND, Calif. (AP)-A year-old Newton's seventh 
times of great crisis and impen­allow many of its people to be judge declared a mistrial felony trial since 1964. The 
ding disaster. Also many of economically oppressed by Due to an error in identifi­ye~terday in the murder trial prosecution charged Newton 
these cults are self-seeking in large conglomerations. cation, The Observer incorrect­of Black Panther Leader shot prostitute Kathleen 
orientation; few have the self­Living in an age of hedonism ly .identified the band leader Huey Newton, accused of Smith on an Oakland street­
lessness of Mahatma Ghandi' s had caused Americans of this pictured on page 7 of yester­killing a 17-year-old pros­corner in 1974. Newton fled 
peace movement in India or the generation to turn their back on Clay's issue. While the current titute in 1974. It was the the country while Ms. Smith 
civil rights movement of the old virtues and values both director's name is Dr. Robert second mistrial in the case. was in a coma, but later 
1960's. moral and educational, claimed O'Brien, as the caption stated, Last March, a mistrial was returned voluntarily from 
Mayer. "For the ftrst time in the photograph actually
Mayer thinks that humanity 
history a culture plunges from de(>icted a former director whodeclared after a jury dead­Cuba to stand trial. She 
has failed the leader of the cult 
literacy to illiteracy," he said. retired two years ago. Thelocked 10-2 for acquittal. died without regaining con­
most important to its history -­
While the world has problems, Observer apologizes for this Mayer does not believe them error. 
The current trial was 37-sciousness. 
The Observer
Carter allows Tellico Dam 
Night Editor: Captain John 
Siems announces dates

Smith 
Asst. Night Editor:Ann Mon­
despite snail darter _fish 
aghan 
~f 6Juggler publications

Copy Editor: Tom jackman 
Layout Staff:Dave Thomas,
NEW YORK-President Carter said in a statement, by]ohn Cassidy 1st, with the deadline for
Deirdre Murphy 
Caner announced last night "I accept, with regret, this submission of articles and
News Editor:Mark Rust
he has s~~ned ''with ~~ed action as expressin~ the will Larry Siems, editor of "The reproductions (photos, paint­
Editorial Layout:Tom Beh­
reactions a $10.86 btllton of the Con~ress. ' The Juggler," Notr~ Dame's ings, art work etc.) set for this
ney
appropriation bill that in­president satd that if he student operated hterary mag­Monday.
Sports Layout:Paul Barry
cludes funds to complete the vetoed the measure, Tellico azine, satd yesterday that the Publtcation of the spring
Mullaney
controversial Tellico Dam in would repeatedly be the magazine will be published issue is tentatively scheduled
Sports Copy Editor:Mike Ol­
Tennessee, a project that subject of future legislative twice this year instead of last for March. "The Juggler" is
enik
threatens the tiny snail battles and might in the end year's once. Siems added that, published on campus and
Typists:Paul Mullaney, Pau­
darter fish. Noting that both undermine the principles of "We'll take anything as long as funded through STudent Activ­
la Shea, Mich Santella,
houses of Congress author­the Endangered Species Act, it's guality material and can be ities. Those wishing to submit
Kathy Murray, Beth Wtllard 
I

ized completion of the Tellico which he promised tO en• reprmted in a magazine." material for publication should
E.M.T.:Kim Convey
project by clear majorities, force vigorously. 
The ftrst issue of 64 pages take it to 309 O'Shaughnessy
Proofreader:Mark Rust 
will be published on' December Hall.

NO Day Editor:Keith Melar­
agno 
SMC Day Editor:Kathy Do­
manico · 
Weather 

_yellow

Ad Design:Matt ·the beer 
Today sunny and mild. Low iii the low 
man, Bob Rudy 
High tn the upper 70s and 50s. Tomorrow mostly sunny 
Photographer:Ken Berumen 
SANDWICHES DEliVERED 
low 80s. Tonight clear and mild. High in the 
Guest Appearances:sick
and cool. upper 70s and low 80s. 
Suzy 
Between 10.·00-10.·30 

The Obsarv11 [USPS 598 9201 Ia published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the 
minimum order 15
272-4453 

students of Notre Dame and Saint
CamP-_u_s__ 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 
purchased for $20 per yur !S10 per 
semester! from The Observer, ~.0. box 
we are open for lunch and dinner 

Q, Notrell1me, lndl1na 46556. Second 
every c/a.y

6:30pm MEETING sailing club, 204 
class p:a• paid, Notre Dame, In­
dian• . The Observer Ia 1 memblr of the
O'SHAG 
at St Rd 23 across from Fat Wa/1y ;s

Associated Preas. All reproductlen
6:30pm MEETING off campus council, 
rights 1re reserved. 
LAFORlUNE 

7 pm MEETING photo club, 120 O'SHAG . 
oamn thef.(Jpedoesl 
~tor the s.m.c. -n.O.

7, 9:15, 11:30 pm FILM "the longest yard," ENGR. AUD. 
7:30pm 
PANEL DISCUSSION "civil 

SENIOR CLASS PICNIC 
liberties & the public schools," LAW SCHOOL 

FUN~ 
4:00-9:00

8:15pm RECITAL gerald goodman­harp, LIB. AUD. • $1 
s.m.c. cluBhouse 
9pin 
:~1-'U/ 1 MEETING ladies and 

B€€R mUSIC 
kr ;[~ht< of columbus, K OF C 
thu~sOay, S€pt. 27
H;.-l.. 

hamBUR(j€RS 
9:30pm NA2.Z _i<Jdy budny and jim 
hot Ooqs sooa I.D. Required
!;iZUtnSKI 

• 

The Observer 
Church suggests tabling SALT 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Sen. . until the troops were with-C. Byrd appealed to the Senar 
Frank Church, D-Idaho, chair­drawn. to remain calm and avo· 
man of the Senate Foreign Other senators also reacted )linking Cuba and SAL . 
Relation£ Committee, recom­strongly to Gromyko's speech. : "Why all this sudden panic? ' 
mended yesterday that the ''I'm astonished," said 1 Byrd adked in a floor speech. 
panel delay sending the SALT II Republican Leader Howard H. :'Why all this sudden hyster­

• 

treaty to the Senate until some­thing is done about Soviet troops in . Cuba. 
Church was reactmg to a speech to the United Nations by Soviet Foreigh Minister Andrei Gromyko in which he called reports of a Soviet combat bngade in Cuba a propaganda campaign "based on false­hoods." 
''The artificiality of this entire question must be honestly ad­mitted and the matter closed,'' said Gromyko. 
Church said that ''as far as I am concerned the matter can be 'closed' only when President Carter is able to certify to the Senate his conclustion based on our independent intelligence assessment, that these Soviet combat forces are no longer present in Cuba.'' 
The Idaho senator added that "I do not want to see the SALT II treaty rejected by the Senate. For this reason, I am of the opinion that the Senate Foreign Relations Committee should de­fer reporting the treaty to the Senate until the current negoti­ations have been completed and the results are known.'' 
When the presence of Soviet 

On the agenda was a report on impo.rrant, of course, but the Monday's CLC meeung, a most imporrant aspect is 100% speaker for the United Way involvement.'' ­campaign, and appointment of Dorms must have donations 
HPC committee members. from each person to tally a 
Paul Riehle, Keenan presi­100 1/z mark. This is not by the dent, reported on the CLC amount of money, but by the article in yesterday's Observer, number of donors. Suggested clarifying a statement made by donation is $1. Fr. John VanWolvlear, vice­The HPC committee working president for Student Affairs, in conjunction with INPIRG 
that party rooms be used only reported a plan to collect cans on Friday and Saturday eve­and paper to raise· money for nings, unless the hall rector INPIRG. Half of the money feels that an exception is war­collected will be put into the ranted. This is essentially the HPC budget allocation, and the policy that the CLC advocated. other half will go to INPIRG. 
''If party rooms are used Collection will begin in the near responsibly this semester, the future and will be done by truck keg proposal will have a better from dorm to dorm. chance of passing in future," ln other actions, four standing Riehle added. committees were formed to 
Fr. Joe McTaggart also spoke operate for the 1979-80 schoor last ni~ht on the United Way year. The Budget Committee, Campa1gn which is to be held which makes decisions on 
on campus October 7-11. Each monies allocated to each hall dorm will be canvassed from the HPC budget, works in individually. conjunction with the HPC Ex­"We are part of the city of ecutive Coordinator, Don Cian­
South B_end," McTaggart said, cio. Members of this commit­tee include John Riely, Jane Stoffel, Don Murday, Curt Wesseln, Chris Diagn, and Paul Riehle, alternate.
Harpist 
The Round Table Committee organizes dinners which pro­mote interaction between hall
presents 
1eaders. It is comprised of Margaret Ward, Madaline Dar­rouzet, and Don Ciartcio. 
The Standard Review Commit­
recital 
tee is charged with the enforce­ment of HPC policy. Any 
The Notre Dame Music problems cited are discussed Department will present har~ist here and solutions suggested.Gerald Goodman, accompamed Members are Phil Vanderhoef, by William Cerny, tonight at Joe Madigan, Pete Visceglia,
8:15 in the library auditonum. Lou Moran, Geoff Raynor, Batt 
Admission ·is $1.00 and all Henderson, and Dale Robinson. students are invited to attend. Donna Schaefer, Mike Tuohy, 
BakerJr. of Tennessee. "There 1a?" is simply no basis for doubting Dropping his previous that the Russians have a fully insistence that he is uncolll.lll_lt­equipped, fully manned .comj:>at ted on the strategic f brigade in Cuba. There's sim-arms-limitation treaty, ffryd ply no doubt about it." ~aid, "I'm inclined to vote ~r 
Baker called on President lt, but I'm not fully decidt;(:l." Carter to release to the public The West Virginia Demo,:rat, the evidence showing the pres-whose support would IDe essen­ence of the Soviet troops in ial for approval of the tt;eaty, Cuba. said he will make hil;; final 
Sen Henry Jackson, D-Wash., decision after 1hearing the re­called Gromyko's statement "a suits of the Senate Inidligence bald face lie" adding that "the Commitee's study of whether SALT process has been put on comJ?liance can be adequately ice for an idefinite-period." monitored. ­
The furor over Gromyko's The intelligence panel is speech came not long aftei expected to complete its work Senate Majority Leader Robert ___:lc::::ac::.te:::.;r::......t!:.!h;!.!i:.::::s_w.:.:.::ec::e~k"".-------, 
Observer paid layout 
staff meeting TOMORROW 7:00pm no typists 

troops in Cuba was first dis­closed by the Carter 
A simple surve_v administration, Church said he i-:;;-mrrFORTH'EiECORD1 
did not believe the Senate
Thest? students prepare to survey the campus. [photo by I ~ In the 100 Centet offets I
would approve the SALT treaty
Ken Berumen] 
10% off on 
EVERYTHING I 
with ID & coupon

by]ana Schutt "and the organizations that and Phil Vanderhoef were ap­students participate in are set pointed to the Sports Commit­
I RECORDS, TAPES, paraphernalia 
•

The Hall Presidents Council up in South Bend. We want to tee. This group selects the 
met last evening in the base­promote a community feelin~, all~stars for all interhall 
ment of Breen-Phillips Hall. an involvement. The money 1s competition. -----------------~ 
F

• • • • • -:2 .... ,,,,,,.,_,..,.. 
' ~ ATTENTION: 
SENIORS AND GRAD STUDENTS 4lterested in discovering employment opportunities with the 
BENDIX 
,Corporation
Reception 
Thursday, Sept. 27 7:00 --9:00 pm Blue-Gold and Shamrock 
Rooms 
Morris Inn 

1"e_freshments will be served. 
F I 

,1 
, 
,1 
, 
1 1 
1 1 1 1 
1 
~ 

The Observer Wednesday, September 26, 1979-page 4 
·--------by Ann McAuliffe out if that particular area truly previous experience involvedI 8 ~ ·• andPam Moody interests them. "Look at the pe~sonnel administrative y.-ork. 
~ ~ I yellow pages of the phone book Th1s means one receiVesI ~ ~ "You can't look at your first or at the directory of an office on-the-job training for three
• ,::. ~ I job as a career, but as a . building for people in your field months in order to qualify for a
1

I ~ t ~' c.., I buildin~ block to other of interest. What you find out supervising position, says ..., "oJ , ~ careers. ' This was the idea may not be what you had Schlipf.
' I 

~ ~ ~ .~ stressed by Ms. Lucy Hammer, expected." Jobs may entail anything
1 SMC

I ~ _ E:-6l.. ~ trust officer of Indiana Bank Ruth Fischer, assistant pro-from screening and hiring job
1 ~ ~ ~ ~ I and Trust of Ft. Wayne. The fessor of music at St. Mary's applicants to matching the ~ 1 1977 graduate of Saint Mary's and an alumni of the college, potential part-time employees ~ College participated in a stressed in her workshop that with the comP.any in need of the
I

I~ I students "College to Career Days" money and prestige are not the workers' skills, according to ~ I workshop presented yesterday only factors involved in select-Schlipf. Temporary, Inc, ••~ at St. Mary'. ing a job. The opportunities for services provide workers where ~ • I f• The sderibes of workshops, pedrsonal fulfillment a job pro-they are needed for approx­I ~ b sponsore y the Counsel10g vi es, such as the chance to imately 90% of the nation's ~ . I ene 1t and Career Dvelopment Center develop and implement one's corporations, claims Schlipf.
I

I ., , 1 in conjunction with Saint won programs, also play impor-Certain qualification are
0 Mary's Student Government, is tant roles in the degree of required of one who is aI • I f designed to expose students to satisfaction one receives from a possible candidate for a super­1 ~11\o • I ro...,., problems confronted in teh job. ·'Look for the most vising position. Fluency and 
.A..A..A. working world through the per-fulfilling job available. If you articulation of speech and the1 ,...... "' 1 sonal experiences of women in are not happy in what you're written word are most impor­
1

I ' '4 k various career fields. doing, no amount of money can tant, along with the ability to• 1 spea ers Ms. Hammer also compensate for your personal communicate with people on aI emphasized that although :. sacnfice." day to day basis. Almost anyI 1 first job after graduation may Also speaking yesterday was major is a likely prospect for a 
~ 

'" 1 not be ideal, the experience and Carolyn Schipf, regional branch vocation such as this, butI ........ opportunity for personal con-manager for Temporaries Inc., particularly those majoring in
I nections it l?rovides can lead to a nationwide i':l~ustry that does English, Philosophy or theI I ~ ,.._,. i h1gher r.osltions with greater campus recrultlng for corpor-Liberal ARts.1 f'\tiJ responsibility. ations in order to fill part-time Since Temporaries Inc. 
~ Q.) (') ~ I She urged students to inves-job openings. serves so many businesses,I t_ ~ ~ t: ~ I tigate the job responsibilities of opSeonmet0oftghreapuoaslt.teisonswtl~that anre they have become "the nation's 
~ ~ M various fields in order to find d 0 third largest growing
II C') ·~ t:3 ~ ·I =-========================== industry'' says Schlipf. Many 
of the accomplishments made in order to better the corpor­ation include: employee benefit
I ?--~ ~"81 Student Union distributes packages 
I~~~~~ 
packages, paid holidays, hos­pitalization coverage, a credit possessed 250. packages, they Union chose this method of union and many others. The
hy Tom jackman 

allowed only the first 247 distribution "to make sure that system deals with four types of
Srnim· StaffNeportrr

tc2 ~I 
srudcnts to sign a list which the people who really wanted classified work which are as
I -J I would enable them to purchase the tickets would get them." follows: editorial, industrial,
Confusion surround<'d the 

the rickets. Two of the remain­Coughlin added that ''this is medical and clerical, all ofdistribution of 247 Homecom­which provide a better chance~--------· in~ packages last night, bur inf packages, it was announc-­the fairest possible way we
I 0\ R no , $1 could do it.'' He noted that a for the part time employee
e< were to be saved for a
inJuries were incurred and the 

raffle next The lottery would have drawn a far finding a job geared towards his
week. finalsale went "reasonably well"
i ~ ~ ~ ~ an ording I<T Tim package will be the grand prize greater number of students, ability.
Coughlin,

I ~ o ~ Student Union social com-tn a "Helen of Troy" hunt to be notably those who weren't The ''College to Career Day'' 
0 held shortly before homecom­really. interested in the pack­workshops, open to all, will be
llliSSIOner.

I~ %0\ ing, according to Student Union ages. Just announcing the time continued today from 11 a.m. to
Packages cost $50 apiece, but and date of the sale ahead of 8 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge in

~·~ 0 Co? were particularly valuah'lc .direnor Tom Hamel. 
However, many students be­time, "a sleep-0ut," would LeMans Hall and tomorrow
I because they contained two 11 to p.m.
from a.m. 8 10 
0 
I ~ ~ -~ grneral admission tickets to lieved that the list being signed have been unsuitable according":S ~. n<'XI month's Southern was for a lottery to be held to Coughlin. Regina North Lounge. immediately after the sale, and 
Rumors that students wereCalifornia football game, along

I~ .§ ~I 1hal seriously injured in the rush for
1hey were unfairly exclud­
with two rickets to the Kansas ed. Coughlin was quick to tickers were given credence byrock com-crt and two rickets 10 

the homrrorning dance. clarify that this was just a an ambulance which sped down Women hold 
misunderstanding, and there .Juniper Road at the same time.
The packages were distribut· No injuries were 

~~ ~ 
was never any intention of reported to
!
("(1 outside of(;are .'\at the ACC, 

ratJllng tb£ ~o. packages off any local authorities, according b-ball tr_youtsa location which · W<IS ..._not 
to Hamel.

I 
announced until ·I') nilnutes last night.
I \J ~ Once the fortunate 247 stu­The raffle for two of the last
before the sale on WSND-AM. 

dents pruchased the tickers, three packages will be an· Womern's Varsity BasketballAt this rime, WSNJ)'s )im 
they signed another list to nounced next week in The tryouts will begin Monday,O'Brien incorrnrly added ihar
IN ~ I Observer, and will be limi.ted to October 1. All interested 10
only ~0 packages were avail­confirm th~t they were the first 
ones to arnve. 500 $1 tickets, said Coughlin. trying out for the 1979-80 squadable. With thr rickets being on
I I Comptroller Rick Pinkowski The search for the final package should report to the ACC Arena 
a ''first-rome first-served''

I -,.. I will be held next month. at 4:00p.m. on Monday.
that Studentbasis. a massive campus-wide explained the 
\

dash for 1he AC( ~ ensued.I I Although the Student Union
0:: 

I ~ .. -~r 1 
United Way 
~~~ 0'' I 1 
munity that they feel require The United Way Campaign
[continu('d from page 1]
~z~ 
aid. He explained that four and will still take place under ,the
• ' 
I ~ I United Way explaining the one half percent of each dollar direction of Adri Trigiani and a 
purposes of the organization. raised is used by the United group of student and faculty
According to Drummond, the \'V'ay volunteers to raise money volunteers.~ I Saint Joseph County Division for the charity, the rest of the
I•o~· 

In other businesses, thefunds "35 community services. money goes directly to the 
commissioners working on
t"-l I Earh United Way organization charities they fund. 
Founders Day reported that
I .9..*: I is an auronomous unit support­
ing the groups in their com-Drummond spoke at the they have rented a balloon to meeting in response to the give rides to students on Oct. 11 Board's request for more in­from 3-) p.m. The cost of
a••••••••••••••••••••a 
formation about United Way ·renting the balloon is $350 and 
•-------­
• Any college of • before making their decision . the cost of the rides will be
• 

Adri Trigiani, development about $1.00. The balloon is 70 commissioner has been re­feet high and 50 feet in dia­
" c $ 

: ARTS and LETTERS STUDENT : 
searching the operation since it meter and will rise 75 feet from
-
ttt' z <It 
came to her attention last year the ground.
.., c( <( 

• interested in representing the college • 
that many students were dis­Sheila Wixted, treasurer,
~z 

• 
pleased with funding United announced that Friday, Sept.
' u­
-o 

eon the UNIVERSITY ACADEMIC COUNCILe Way. 28, is the last day for clubs and
= 
.! :1 X <( z X 

organizations to turn in their 
.... . 

: should submi~ nome and brief : "Student Government wants 
requests for Student Govern·
ctO 
to get closer to th_eir goal of 
"• oz 

ment allocations. The alloca­
&.. zw 

e statement_ of purpose before e raismg social conscwusness on
CD 

tions will be made Oct. 7. 
~ 
areas we feel affects student
o:x: 

During the last ~oard meet­life '' noted Kathleen Sweeney,
1 ·~--g -• ::::> 

• Friday Sept. 28 to: Mary McManus • vic~-president of student _a~tiv­ing it was an_nounced th~t 
• 
Carrie Meyer res1gned her posi­ities. One of the opmwns tion as Athletic Commissioner.
expressed by the Board was

: 303 Breen Phillips : that their efforts should go A commissioner has not towards the campus char.it~ .. ye~ -~ee.~ .ap~oin,te?: .
....................... new 

·~:.·
•' ,"'·
f ..'\....... 

..----~------------------------------------~---.~------~------------------------------------------~
, 
,r 
r 
r 
~­
r 
r· ­
explanation, the bottom line for the CLC after the Monday night meeting showed that kegs will still not be allowed on campus, giving CLC members--both the young and the less young--more than a little to be disillusioned about. 
We live in a world of buzz words. The CLC has the power to "have input;" yet the recent history of the CLC shows that its "input" rarely is in a~ree­
ment with the a?ministrattot?-'s 
Editorials Kegs: a sad case In business it is known as the such a meaningless buzz phras "bottom line." After all the reflects the CLC's impotency in hope, after all the talk, after all changing University policy; and the work, what is the result? this is sad. · With little fanfare and even less Sadder yet is the way in  Wednesday, SEptember 26, 1979 --page 6  

~ 'IF IT~~ )W ffiL 1#1 BmeR,I'M itUJ~ PitR((NE I EXM A1-W<D·R.u;Hl"BAn\t....W. 
Jimmy's Tough Decision · 
rooms from kegs rather that expensive, wasteful cans and bottles. Their reasoning was clear and cogent: draft beer tastes better, costs less, and is less wasteful. In their exuber­ance to "input" in a grand way the whole idea of drinking beer from kegs was turned into some type of lofty social issue called "learning how to drink respon­sibly," an idea as obscene in its implication as it is laughable in its rhetoric. "Inputting" with 

NHEiN 7RAN5/..IrTCIJ f1?U.1 TH& fR61NAL 5f111N!SH, 711& FORM IUA5 FCKJNP 70 CIJNTAIN A /?E(}(/E5T FOR. NMRLY I, lj()() CZECH 5TAPI..& Gl/N5. "'­
which the decision was made. While Fr. VanWolvlear, who announced the final decision, would appear to be the obvious scapegoat, the decision was apparently out of his control: close to half the rectors on campus did not support the proposal, even though the pro­posal would have given them the opportunity to accept or reject the tapping of kegs in their particular hall. 
This represents an obvious 

output. The feelm~ of authonty shirking of r p ·b·l·
h CLC d · ... es onsi IIty. 
~ e.. . env~s rom . mputt-Were rectors who o osed mg IS fragile, e_as!ly a~d in-hall ke s looking out tgr the frequently crushed, hke all thm welfare ofstudents who li i 
masquerades. h II b ve_ n 
, , , , . . a s run y rectors who thmk 
Th~ gre~t keg Issue IS a less clearly than themselves? case 10 po10t. In an effort ~0 Hardly. It is more likel that ~s~ert some ~ontr~l ov~r their they were either prot~ctinghves and their umvers1ty, the their own on-campus image, or CLC propose?, very _simply, once again "protecting" their that beer be dispensed 10 party overly patronized students. 
_ . 
While students will always drink, many will tend to drink more than their share in a frustrating effort to reassert 
control  over  their  own  lives,  
control  taken  from  them  by  
rectors  who  prefer  to  protect  

rather than lead. Perhaps the issue all along had less to do with "responsible drinking" than with responsible leading. In this area, the students have once again been let down. 

DOOIISBUBY 
~GI3'fot~­

fW. INSTANCE, A &:cENT~-71 fi./GHT /31!0116/ffBACJ( SCM& 
AtR.IAL PH0706RAPH5 Or A 
CL8.AN Mlt!TA!<Y 51./PPtY lJtPOT. ONE or THe PHO!lJ6RAPHS RE­
V&ALE/J A SOVIeT COMM/5SARY OFFICER exAMININ6 A 
5711Pl£ GUNS~ tfl'S JliST 
WITH AN 54Y TH£3 OFF&N5/V& TeCHN0/.06'1
CAPABIUTY? 15 AVAilABl-E. 
I 
· 

WASHINGTON--Things happen very fast in Washing­ton. 
A few months ago everyone was asking: "Will Teddy Kennedy run in 1980?" 
Now people want to know: "Will Jimmy Carter run in· 1980?" 
At the moment it is very hard to predict. There has been great deal of pressure on Carter to run, particularly by members ofhis staff. But insiders say he is reluctant at this time to announce his candidacy. 
Caner has told friends, "If I challenge Kennedy in 1980 I could split the party. Besides, there are many family consid­erations that I have to resolve.'' 
One is whether his wife Rosalynn wants Jimmy to run for President. Intimates say that Rosalynn, who has never enjoyed the give and take of national politics, would prefer that Jimmy go back into the 
U.S. Navy. Most of Carter's Annapolis classmates are admirals now, and Rosalynn is sure that if Jimmy would reapply for his commission he would earn his flag rank in no time. 
On the other hand, some friends say that Rosalyn enjoys being First Lady and much prefers the East Wing of the White House to the Grand Ballroom of the Carter Peanut Warehouse in Plains. 
Other family considerations ~hat) immy is seriously weigh­10g ts whether, by not running, he'll have to take his daughter Amy out of the District of Columbia's school system. One of the reasons Jimmy gave for wanting to be President is that he had heard the D.C. school system was so much better than the one in Americus, GA. 
A third family consideration Jimmy has to face up to is how his brother Billy will feel about him running for another term. 
Billy has always been shy by nature and hated the limelight, and he has never cottoned to his brother being: President of the United States. He was once overheard telling Jimmy: 'Til be ~lad when you're out of the White House so I can get back to tending my gas station. Everyone who owns a station has been making a mint. But not me. Every time I want to go to work I get ;:ailed in front of a grand. jury. If you cared anythmg for me you'd chuck it all and get the feds and press off my back.'' 
. The ~ost i!llportant factor in Jtmmy s dec1s1on will be how his mother feels about him running for President. Miss Lillian has yet to indicate if she will give her j)ermission or not. 
"I've tr~ed to give Jimmy a good upbnngmg and teach him right from wrong," she told the Muppets on television the other night. ''But the trouble with being President of the United States is that you don't know what is right or wrong. When you thin~ you're doing right, the public says you're doing wrong. And when you're doing wrong, the public says you're doing right. I've never stood in the way of my children. So if Jimmy wants to run for Presi-
P.O. Box Q 
\Student commends 
Dear Editor: 
Congratulations to Leslie 
Griffith, the St. Mary's Soph­
omore Class Officers, the 
readers and musicians, and 
most importantly to the partic­
ipating sophomore women of 
St. Mary's and Notre Dame. 
Last Sunday's mass with the 
"Circle ofFriends" theme was, 
in my opinion, a great success. 
It would be space consuming 
and rather repetitive to list the 
many stereotypic images both 
sets of women have been 
exposed to sin~e the beginning 
of freshman year. Hopefully 
Sunday! intermingling helped 

Art Buchwald 
dent it's my duty as his mother to support him, even if it's qifficult to explain to my friends whose sons are all successful in their own fields. On the other hand, if he wants to buy a cooperative apartment on Fifth Avenue in New York City, I' II fo along with that too." 
Most of the pressure on Carter is coming from his close advisors who keep telling him, "Some people will say it's unfair of you to challenge an incumbent senator from Massachusetts when he decides he wants to be President. But these· are not ordinary times and the country needs leader­ship. You're the only one who can do it after what we've gone 
through  for  the  past  three  
years.  _  
Pretty  soon Jimmy  Carter  

will have to make the hardest decision of his life. Will he enter the presidential sweep­stakes and risk splitting his own party by challenging Kennedy? Or will he bow out and wait another four years to run, when the Democratic nomination would be his for the asking? 
[c)1979, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 
to eliminate some of these 
rather unpleasant images. 
Sunday's mass was a successful attempt to bring together two sets ofwomen that "hve across the street" from one another but rarely have the opportunity to meet on common ground. Perhaps this was the first step towards eliminating "competition" and perpetuat­ing neighbors and friends. hope everyone came away from 
'that mass feeling as warm as I did. The large turnout seems to indicte the desire of many people to bridge that over­discussed gap between being a woman at SMC and being a woman at N.D. TrictaBu/1 

-The Observer_ 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers

The news is reported as accurately and 
Sports Editor ..................Mark Perry Features Editor ... ..Kathleen Connelly Photo Editor .. ............Doug Christian 
Busines~ Manager........Steve Odland Production Manager .......Tim Sullivan Advertising Manager ....... ..Bob Rudy Controller.........•. .......Kevin Manion Circulation Manager ..... .Greg Hedges 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor............ .. Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor.........M. Onufrak their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor .. .... Mike Lewis able to all members of the community, News Editor .................... Mark Rust an~ .the free expression of varying News Editor ... ...............Mike Shields op1010os on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor ..... Ellen Buddy encouraged. SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brassil 
The Observer 
The location pictured above is the proposed spotfor the new fire escape. [photo by Ken Berumen] 
• • . Fire escape 
Carter addresses APTA, calls for national lllass transit aid 
NEW YORK (AP) -President He announced no new pro-The ptog:ram Carter o~~Carter said Jesterday his pro­grams, but said tha when he is to the !tton July IS ua ;-Wsposals to ai mass transporta­through with New York 9i!r's energy Q!eas included a *'" tion will erase decades of 75-year-old IRT subway line ommen $tion that" $10 bWiQnneglect and ''reclaim America's "It won't look a day over sweet be provi8ed from the wift.d@.U
transit systems'' unless Con­
16." profits tax for public m~s gress rejects his proposed tax Carter spoke glowingly of the transit facilities along with f6.5 

on oil company profits. 
future of mass transit but said, billion for improving automo­Carter, makm~ a one-day trip ' 'For this program to succeed, bile fuel efficiency during the to New York C1ty, also prom­the Congress absolutely must 1980s. But he told the ~ransitised that mass transit systems 

approve one major element--the association audience: 

will continue to get priority windfall profits tax.'' "With the energy proposals I allocation ofgasoline and diesel He said lobbyists "are have presented to the Con­fuel if shortages develop. "We swarming all over Capitol Hill, gress this nation will invest $50 will keep them ro)ling," he working to ~evastate" the tax billio~ in· public transportationsaid. 
on excess oil company profits during the decade of the 1980s~·Carter's remarks were deliv­by cutt?n.g back sh~l~ on ~he He did not elaborate on the $50 ered at the annual convention of 

$140 billion the admimstrauon billion figure. 

the American Public Transit claims it would produce for the ______ As-sociation. Treasury over 10 years. 1I 
After his speech, the Presi­''Their proposed amend­dent was to attend a reception ments would put a total of well I for civic and community leaders over $100 billion in the pockets I before holding a "Town meet­of the oil companies," Carter I 
ing" with residents of the said. I 
,
borough of Queens. Shortly befor~ Carter lefq
In his speech to the transit Washington, the Senate Fi-1 group, Carter said he has made nance Committee unanimously 1 proposals that would produce agreed to exclude "newly dis­
40,000 jobs throughout th"e covered oil" from the tax, one 1I 1980's, save ''massive'' of a number of pending moves amounts of energy and add 15 aimed at softening the tax bite. lflleiJin million passengers a day to The administration opposed thejl ~..,..,.
buses, streetcars and subways. 
committee's action. ~--------·­

Guess Who's Back? 
A 
lfAfteuJ. 
I.AIIPee11•® 

...,._..LIIeUN 
The Most Popular Movie Comedy OfAll Time 
THE MATIY Sl.w.AONS-IVAN REITMAN PRODUCOON 
"NATIONAL l.AW'OON 'S ANIMAL HOUSE" m>mnq JOHN OELUSHI· TIM MATHESON ·JOHN VERNON VERNA OLOOM · THOMAS HULCE and DONALD SUTHEP.L.AND "'JENNINGS Produced by MATIY SIMMONS and IVAN REITMAN· MusicbyELMEROERNSTEIN Wrirren by HAROLD RAMIS. DOUGLAS KENNEY &CHRIS MillER · Directed by JOHN LANDIS Song ""ANIMAl HOUSE'" Composed and Performed by STEPHEN 015HOP A LINIVEI\W. PICTUI\E TECHNICOLORII "Notoonol Lampoon, Ammal HOOle 
,..-----,---=-::--=,....-,I<ln9onol sound ""'"' on 110. Records & Tapes I IWN"' Doak 01 Newwands and Doaluro-es 
Clt171 UNIVERSAL CITY STUDIOS, INC ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

STARTS SEPT 28th AT A ZOO NEAR YOU! 
[continued from page 1] 
come to our attention until after the fire.'' 
He added that serious con­sideration for the project has only surfaced ''within the last year, mostly since Brother Ed brought it up with the fire department and the mainten· ance department." 
Director of Fire Safety Jack Bland explained that Morrissey's worries are only a small part of an overall campus trouble area. 
"We know that we have a lot of dead-end corridors around campus,'' Bland acknowledged "And we're trying to work to alleviate the situation, but Morris~ey' s problem is just one in many.'' 
While describing most halls as trouble areas, Bland singled out St. Edwards, Carroll, Holy Cross, and Sorin, as dorms of particular worry to his depart­ment. 
"If you take any one of these old halls, each one has its unique set of problems,'' Bland explained. "These buildings were built under a different set of codes, and what was good then is not necessarily good now." 
In response to the fire hazard inherent in the older dorms' structures, Bland noted that the University is in the process of surveying all buildings on campus, but residence halls in particular, for potentially dangerous hazards. 
"We're developing studies on this whole dead end corridor situation. We have some severe dead-end corridor prob­lems we're looking into," Bland said. 
The fire department's authority only extends to making recommendations, however. 
"Once it leaves my hands," Bland explained, "It's up to the maintenance department to implement action." 
In the case of the Morrissey fire escape project, however, that implementation came only after a disastrous fire, and two years of waiting. 
[continued from page1) begun a proc~ss .of sensitivity and commumcauon on both 
thre different panels of HEW sides that must be continued byofficials. 
both HEW and the WCC,''Mary F. Berry, assistant 
Holland said. 
secretary for Education,. chaired the first panel which discussed the relationship of women's colleges to "federally 
Workshop
mandated initiatives for educa­tional equity." 
Thet>econd panel addressed to be~incritical higher education issues that HEW will face in the next few years. For example. accred­The Notre Dame Counseling 
Center is conducting a four-ses-•itation and student firumcial 'sion workshop on Assertivenessaid. 
The topic of pane1 three Training beginning Tuesday, concerned civil rights iss~ of October 2nd at 7 p.m. The interest to women's ·r.olleges. training aims at helping you to 
the handkap were 1~luded in express yourself more clearly this presentation. and to say "no.'' Call the ''The conference C'ertainlv has Counseling Center at 283-1718. 



--~-~----­
~-~ 
-··.~ 1 Wednesday, September 26, 19?9 -~ p~~'7 j
The Observer 
Congress deadlocks over budget 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Like a family arguing over whether to buy a new car, and which one, Congress is locked in an in­creasingly bitter debate over how much the country can afford to spend and what it should be spent on. But as the House and Senate resume debate on the budget today, they'll be talking not in terms of $100 or $200-the cost of one car vs. another-but about a budget of more than $500 billion and even differ­ences in the billions of dollars. 
And for the first time in the five-year history of the new congressional budget process, it appears unlikely they'll re­solve their differences before the new fiscal year starts next Monday. 
The deadlock is not expected to affect the day-to-day opera­tion of government since Con­gress can still appropriate money, but it could generate other fall-out, including a fur­ther weakening of pubhc confi­dence in Congress. 
The Senate, looking forward to this fall's SALT II debate, favors sharply higher defense spending than the proposed House budget. The Senate is also callin~ for $3.6 billion in cuts in social programs that the House has thus far rejected. 
House and Senate leaders 

agree there is little chance a 
compromise can be reached on 
the 1980 budget by the end of 
this week when the House is 
slated to leave for a week-long 
recess. 
Some leaders even say the 

only real budget deadline is 
final congressional adjourn­
ment for the year, expected in 
December. 
And while day-to-day gov­

ernment will go on, a long-term 
deadlock on the budget seems 
certain to undermine already 
shaky public confidence in con­
gressional budget-making and 
buttress the charge that the 

government cannot live within a 
tight budget. 
Rep. Toben N. Giaimo, D­
Conn., the chairman of the 
House Budget Committee, said 
almost as much last week when 
he declared that failure to reach 
agreement ''would be admit­
ting to the American people 
that (Congress) is very good at 
appropriating money but that 
Con~ress can't live with budget 
disctpline.'' 
Giaimo added that such a 
deadlock would strengthen ef­
forts to place mandatory restric­
tions on government spending. 
Many states are already calling 
for a constitutional amendment 
to require a balanced federal 
budget. 
The new budget process was 
inaugurated five years ago to 
give Congress a better handle 

·on spending b>: ~re~tin~ _a system for estabhshmg ·. prton­.ties within an overall budget 
ceiling. 
The new process called for 
setting tentative spending ceil­
ings in May, nearly five months 
before the start of a new budget 

year. The ceilings are divided 
into 19 categories, or ''func­
tions" of government, such as 
defense, transportation and 
health. 
The tentative ceilings are 
then ,used ·by congressional 
committees as they approve 
spending for programs under 
their junsdictions. The ceilings 
are reviewed in September and 
a firm total budget figure prior 
to the new process, Congress 
would simply appropriate 
money for government pro­
grams and _the total amount 

•appropriated would be the bud­get. 
By and large, the new pro­
cess has worked well and is 
widely 'regarded as one of the 
most important congressional 
reforms in recent ye:<1rs. 
Normally, the target May 
figures are ratified ·in~eptem­
ber with relatively modest 
changes and appropriating 
committees live within the 
ceilings. 
However, this year, with 
inflation running higher than 
expected, a recession under 
way and mounting public pres­
sure for spending restraint, . 
Congress has found the task 
more difficult. . 
The House, with its heavier urban representation, has tried 
[continued on page 8] 
Task force proposals threaten the dollar 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The dollar bill could become a thing of the past and tomorrow's money might be made of plastic if Congress follows the recom­mendations released yesterday by a Carter administration task force on money. 
The task force suggested that the government begin replacing the paper dollar with the new Susan B. Anthony dollar coin and, later, with $2 bills. 
It also suggested that Con­gress consider eliminating the half-dollar coin, making pen­nies out of aluminum alloy if copper prices rise too high and urged a study of using plastic in future currency. 
Possible eliinination of the dollar bill was immediately attacked by Rep. Frank An­nunzio, D-Ill., chairman of the House Banking subcommittee on consumer affairs. Annunzio told a hearing that he would "do everyting:within my ~ower to deep the dollar btll in· circulatton.'' 
"Ifwe do eliminate the dollar bill and, instead, use the dollar coin, then the Treasury De­partment should be required to Issue every American a pair of suspenders," he concluded. 
Congressional sources, who 
asked that their names not be 
used, said Congress probably 
would move very slowly to alter 
the nation's currency because 
of apparent public rejection of 
two recent hard-fought changes 
introduction of the Anthony 
dollar earlier this year and the 
1976 re-introduction of the $2 
bill. 
The task-force report pre­
pared by officials from the Treasury Department, the Mint, the Bureau of Engraving and Printing and the Federal Reserve--is the latest in a series of recommendations that have been prepared on the nation's coin and currency system. 

Most are aimed at lowering the government's cost of pro­ducing moneY., which will total nearly $35 million for coins this year and $72 million for paper money. 
The report gives no hint of the cost of its recommended changes nor a time-table for their adoption. ''The recommendations have not been adopted or endorsed by the Treasury but are being sent to Congress and made public as part of the review process before fmal decisions are made," the Treasury De­partment said in a statement. 
It added that "the proposed 
changes are for economy and to 
aid law enforcement rather than 
to correct any serious deficien­
cies in the systems." 
The recommendations come 
at a time the government has 
encountered public resistance 
to the Anthony dollar. Many 
people have complained that 
they confuse the new coin with 
quarters and major retailers 
have reported little demand for 
the new dollar. 
Still, William H. Wallace, a 
Federal Reserve official, told 
Annunzio's subcommittee: 
•'The initial demand for the coin has been about what we forecast. We have therefore been disappointed by the in­stant analysis which has led many in the media to assume that the coin will not be successful. '' 
China Gardens 
Restaurant 
-Banquet Facilities up to 200 people 
-Happy Hour 4-7 Live entertainment & dancing -All exotic Polinessian Drinks & traditional cocktails 

-Dinners feature NorthernChinese & Cantonese Cuisine 900 Ireland-1 block west of Scottsdale Mall 291-7373 

'j~dy budny, vocals startin~ friday 

jim szmoski',piano 1 , at the Boar's ' head loung~ 

thursday 
9PijN~ST4~. 
· sign in at 9 pm 
~illlili. @] 

HUNGRY? 
Try Popeyes spicy delicious caJun menu. Delivery service available to campus Tom • GraceHall-2187 Kevin • Grace Hall· 1&41 ~..__..~ 
\'oPe~es-­
FAMOUS FRIED CHICKEN 
1636 N. Ironwood 
SPRING 1980 
WASHINGTON SEMESTER 
The American University 
separate programs in 
CRIMINAL JUSTICE • URBAN AFFAIRS NATIONAL GOVERNMENT • FOREIGN POLICY ECONOMIC POLICY • AMERICAN STUDIES 
programs include: for further information ulrite: 
• 
SEMINARS WITH DECISION MAKERS 

•INTERNSHIPS 
ON CAPITAl. HILl, IN Washington Semester Programs GOVERNMENT AGENCIES, WITH Ward Circle Bldg. 216 PUBLIC INTEREST GROUPS Washington. D.C. 20016 


The American University is an Equal Opportunity/ABirmative Action University. 
TONITE 
7pm-3am 
DROWN THE SPARTANS 
4 Dtafts/ Sl.OO 
molson special tomorrow nite 
VERCITY 
RECORDS 
nC>tth.tn ln,dfana•a largest recotd and tape selection and concert ticket headquarters 
Jl.OO OFFU 
OftJI ~lbu111 01 tclpc> (now thmOct. 15 limit 1 coupon p~r person} 
18,000 albums and tapes In stock 
ND/SmC ttuchtnt checks aca.pted for up to 
120.00 ovet pUtchase amount ·open 10 to 10, 7 do.ya a week 
liver Ot.u Records 
50970 u.s. 31 North 3 ~~~-~..of camput 




¥
( 
The Observer 



ARMY ROTC PROVIDES 
:merit scholarships-up to 520,000 !!!ileadership development ! management training
*

! adventurei·employment opportunity 

S€tltOQ Class 'Wtp money €XChan4€ foR pesos m acapulco, 
PICk up applications In Stubent actiVItieS office nO oR smc any bay th1s week -RetURn BY fRibay Sept 28. money Will se b1st1suteb on tRavel mqht Oct. 16 $'iO m1mmum no max1mum 
.any non us Citizens qo1nq on tRIP 
··' 
please contact Stubent act1v1t1es nO oR smc 

TUNES CITY PROMOTIONS PROUDLY PRESENTS 
I 

FRIDAY, SE~TEMBER 28, 1979 MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS $5.50 ADVANCE, $6.50 DAY OF SHOW AVAILABLE AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE AND RIVER C:ITY RECORDS. U.S 31 NORTH ELKHART: SUSPENDED CHORD. PIERRE MORAN MALL NILES: THE RECORD JOINT, BELL PLAZA MISHAWAKA: BOOGIE RECORDS. COLLEGE SQUARE AND JUST FOR THE RECORD. 100 CENTER 
If you've got the time We've got the Beer 


conversion, Travel Night 
by Brendan Brown 
of this opportunity. The Student Those who are not U.S. citizens Activities Office has made ar-. should report to the Student In preparation for the senior 
rangemenrs with a currency Activities Office as soon as trip to Acapulco, Andy Barfuss, house in Chicago to handle the possible to make the proper
senior coordinator, announced transaction. arrangements.that those interested in ex­
Barfuss felt that it would be Also on Travel Night plane changing American for safer and more profitable for tickets and flight tunes will beMexican currency should pick distributed, and roommate se­
up applications in the Student students to deal through the lections will be confirmed. Activities Office at either Notre currencey house.Although there Furthermore, students will be 
is a fifty dollar minimum, b ·Dame or Saint Mary's and have Barguss beljeved tha_t most a le to purchase t-shirts com-

them filled our and returned by 1 memoraung the trip for three 
Friday September 28. Barfuss semors would exchange dollars. "strongly advised" those going between $tOO and $1 50 · To date, there are some 485 
Those going on the trip are · f s M dto Acapulco to take advantage required to attend Travel Night semors rom t. ary's an 
_ , _ Notre Dame going to Acapulco, on October 16th at 8:00 pm in , however over 600 signed up and O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. paid the fifty dollar deposit. Mary's. U.S. customs officials The high number of cancella­will be there to give advice and tions dtdn' t surprise Barfuss to distribute tourist cards though, who satd that many of which can be used instead of the seniors were probably passports. To obtain a tourist "over-anxious. "He pointed out card students are required to that the travel agent who is bring proof of citizenship in the organizing the trip also felt that form of a birth certficate, a 600 people was an unusually voter registration card, a pass-high number for a vacation of port, or a notarized affidavit. this sort. 
• . Budget 
• 
(continued from page 7] 
to protect funding for social programs while the Senate, worried about the military bal­ance with the Soviet Union, has pressed for increased defense spending. 
That conflict, fought diOn a battlefield of growing public resistance to government spending, was bound to be difficult and now appears to be slipping into deadlock. 
Prestdent Carter and many House and Senate leaders have called for a 1980 budget deficit below this r.ear's expected figure of $30 btllion. They say a reduction is necessary to show the American people that Con­
gress is moving toward  a  bal­ 
at¥:ed  budget,  a  goal  that  
Carter has set for 1981.  

However, defense spending has become a politically explo­sive issue in the Senate, where some senators vow to oppose the U.S.-Soviet strategic arms limitation treaty-SALT II unless the military budget is substanti­ally increased. Carter has endorsed the 1980 defense level approved by the Senate. 
However, House liberals have argued that increased social spendin~ is needed in the current recesston when unem­ployment will rise and more Americans will be forced onto welfare. 

The House is considering a proposed 1980 budget calling for $548.2 billion in spending and a $28.9 billion deficit. The proposal is only slightly leaner than one rejected last week in a surprise vote. 
Last week, the Senate ap­proved its $546.3 billion version of the bud~et, and because the Senate estunated revenues as lower that the House, its ver­sion contains a higher deficit, $31.6 billion. 
The Senate proposal contains 3 percent growth in 1980 de­fense spending over and above inflation, while the House bud­get would increase 1980 de­fense spending by about 1 percent after inflation. 
.Sk_ydivers to hold exhibition 

The Notre Dame Skydiving Club is sponsoring a skydivmg exhibition toni~ht at 6 p.m. weather permitttng. Spectators should watch from the north edge of the field, and there will be a movie and question/ an­swer session afterwards in the LaFortune Ballroom. Admis­sion to the movie will be 2 5 cents, all students are welcome. 
Graduate from Notre Dame as an Army Officer 
CAll(219) 283-6264 

The Observer -Sports 
Golfers take third in Indiana 
tourney 

========================== 
. Soccer 


[continued from page 12] 
haw· to be ready. 
Before Indiana, however, Notre Dame must play Kalama­zoo College this afternoon at 4 p.m. behind Stepan Center and then travel to Albion, Mich. Thursday, for a 3:30p.m. game with Albion College. You might want to do yourself a favor and come out to see them play. If 
[continued from page 12] 
game, an altercation erupted between Franklin and an unidentified Tech player, resulting in the ejection of both players. When regulation time expired, the Indiana Tech play­ers and coaches refused to play the two, 10-minute overtime periods required under NCAA rules. Consequently, the refer­ees awarded the game to the Irish, with Tom Luetkehans getting credit for the overtime 
by BillMcCormick Sj>orts Writer 
Notre Dame went into the Indiana Intercollegiate Golf Championship at Zionsville, In. last Monday as the defending champion of the tournament and had high hopes of captur­ing the title again this year. 
But by the time the field of eighteen teams had completed the one-day, 36 hole event at the Golf Club on Indiana, those hopes has vanished. Notre 
Dame ended up in third place with a score of 771. Purdue, having last won the tournament 
score of 748, and Ball State at 76'9 grabbed second. There was an amazing
similarity between the confron­
tation of Notre Dame and 
Purdue at Zionsville on Monday 
and the battle between these same two schools on the gridi­ron last Saturday in West Lafayette. After the first eigh­teen holes of play on Monday, or in other words half time, Notre Dame and Ball State posted 378's and were leading the tournament and Purdue ·by four shots. So going into the locker room... rather, .club­
house, Notre Dame seemed to be in pretty good shape. But, 

you , .n't make it Friday, the game will be carried live over WSND-640 AM beginning at 4:00. 
But I don't think you want to miss seeing Notre Dame u~;>set their neighbors from Bloommg­ton. You'll probably come away a bona fide soccer fan. 
And who, knows. Maybe Bobby Knight will show up and punch somebody? 
• • • Conitrovers:v.. 
goal. Jrish coach Rich Hunter could not be reached for com­ment. 

Notre Dame will try to make it two in a row this afternoon at 4 p.m. when they take on Kalamazoo College on the Stefan Center field. The Irish wil take to the road tomorrow for a 3:30 p.m. clash with Albion College before returning to Cartier Field Friday after­for a 4 p.m. game against the top-ranked Hoosiers of Indiana University. 
Little Theatre LaFortune 7:00Pm 
BURN'S RENT-ALLS 2 Cu. FT. Refrig. SS5 per year 
also TV's -~earnex Carpet Oeaner 10% off ,;vith student ID Large BBQ Grills Auto Tools 
Mi hawaka 
·············~.....Af;······ 
renumscent of last Saturday, the Boilermakers came out smoking in the second half. 
"They simply caught fire,·~ said Notre Dame coach Noel O'Sullivan. The Irish coach was referring to the fact that Purdue shor an incredible 366 for the final eighteen holes, only six strokes over par as a team. "To shoot ~ix over par as a team is unreal," added O'Sullivan. Notre Dame could only manage a team score of 393 to go along with its initial 378. 
The medalist in the tournament was Purdue fresh­man Larry Gosewehr who fired 
in 1975, t·ook first place with a-a tournament record of 140 with 
. j 
j 
I 
I 
j 
Wednesday, September 26,·1979 -~page 9 
Dutt. 
While Lundgren took second place, die other Notre Dame golfers had strong showings. Out of 108 players, semor captain Dave Knee (1.52) was · eighth and junior Tim Sacheck (155) was 11th. 
O'Sullivan and the team had mixed emotions about the tour­nament. O'Sullivan admitted that the team's performance 

roucds of 73 and 67. All in all, it looked as though Purdue had really done it again to the Irish. 
But, thanks to senior John Lundgren, Notre Dame was able to gain some revenge on the Boilermakers. Athe the end of the 36 holes of regulation play, Lundgren was tied with Purdue's Eric Dutt for second place at 148, forcing a playoff. ' The other members of the two teams gathered at the first playoff hole to give support to their respective teammates. 
Th r h 
e stage was set ror t e showdown, but the excitement 
dido' t last long. Lundgrenstroked a three-foot birdie putt in on the first hole to defeat 

' 
Canoe & i 

Kayak ~~ ~~ Rentals L~~~ 
12miles from campus Livery Service and group rates for The Beautiful St. Joe or the challenging Dowagiac River 320 N.Redbud Tr. Buchanan, Mi. 616-695-2250 

~~~~M~~f filM~ ~eoon!s M~~n m~~~·~ llff ~f ~m~~· ~larrin~ an~ Wril!en ~~ b~~~~M ~~~~M~~. J~~~ ~lfmf. n~~r mlli~M. fm~ mlt n~~r J~~fK Ml~~m ~~ll~ he~~live ~o~umrs bW~b[ ~~~m~~~. ~f~m ~·~mf~ ~roooc00 ~ J~~~ b~W~m~f ~ire~le~ ~~ n~~l J~~m Mmmm' ~~n ~ n~~ bH~M 

Opening soon at a theatre near you 
was ' 'a little disap,P?inting, ' ' however he was qutck to add that, ''W were all delighted that John (Lundgren) got: aome licks in against Purdue.'' 
Notre Dame wilt get another shot at Purdue in the Notre Dame Invitational Monday on the Burke Memorial course. The Irish will host 10 schools in this 18-hole event. 
The S ort g
.... 




Baseball 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
E11t  
w  L  Pet.  
x-Baltimore  100  55  .645  
Milwaukee  92  64  .500  
Boston  87  68  .561  
New York  84  71  .542  
Detroit  84  73  .535  
Cleveland  79  n  .506  
Toronto  53  104  .338  
Wut  
x-Caiifornia  87  71  .551  
Kansas City Minnesota  82 81  76 76  .519 .516  
Texas  79  78  .503  
Chicago Seattle  69 65  86 92  .445 .414  
Oakland  5.1  104  .338  

x-ci inched division title ruasdars Results Toronto 5, Boston Detroit 3, Baltimore 2 
ro~1~~,,r 
I HATE ;J.L. -rli£"5~ ~~ IGT-'t}JBIJU41/5. 

~ ~ ~ ~ 


© 1979 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc All Riohts Reserved ' 
9/26179 


WHAT TO DO AFTER COLLEGE. 
1s a ques11on o rot ol young people 1n h1gh school and college ore oskmg Then. even 11 you gellhe hnest college degree. where con you use '' meomnglully? 
_ · Perhaps the answer hes 1n becommg on All Force oM1cer through All Force ROTC we hove many ~iNerent career areas 1n which spec1ohsts ol all kinds ore needed And as on All Force commiSSIOned oM1cer you con nove unequoled.opportunlty lor leadership ana manogemenl e•penence. plus on excellent stortmg salary and benehls package 
consider All Force ROTC as a gateway to a greol way ol hie lor you Find out about the benel1ts ol o lour, three or two·yeor scholarship thai pays SlOO a monlh, tUihOn. boo~ cosls ana tab lees Couple lhol w1lh wMI w111 be wo1lmg offer groduo· lion. end you have lhe answer lo whol you·ve been look1ng lor 
AFROTC DET 225 UNIV· OF 
The Observer -SportsBoard Wednesday, September 26, 1979 -page 10 
New York 7, Cleveland 5 

NATIONAL LEAGUE
Milwaukee 7, Seattle 6 

East 
Chicago 9, Minnesota 3 

w L Pet. GB
Texas 5, Oakland 3 

Pittsburgh 95 62 .605
California 4, Kansas City 1 

St. Louis 85 71 .543 9V2
Wednesday's Games 

Philadelphia 81 n .513 14V2
I Detroit (Chris 3·2) at Baltimore (Palmer 9-6 or 
GB 
8V2 13 16 17 
21112 
48 
5 5V2 7V2 
16V2 21% 33V2 

The Daily Crossword 
Montreal (Rogers 13-1 0) at Pittsburgh (Kison 11-7) ' St. Louis (Martinez 15-7) at Philadelphia (Carlton 16-11) Houston (J. Niekro 2D-10) at Atlanta (P. Niekro 19-20) San Diego (Jones 11-11) at Cincinnati (Seaver 15-6) Los Angeles (Welch 5-6) at San Francisco (Knepper 9-12) 
Soccer 
Tuesday NOTRE DAME 4, INDIANA TECH 3 [OT] First Half 
NO-Jim Sabitus, unassisted, 4:53 IT--Hassein Naghdi, unassisted, 16:31 IT-Aiie Ngayenga, unassisted, 28:11 N0--Saml Kahale, (Tom Crotty), 30:09 IT-Aiie Ngayenga, unassisted, 33:40 
Second Half ND--Bill Wetterer (Tim Nauman), 26:45 Overtime NO-Tom Luetkehans, forteit goal, 44:59 



54 Takes a 22 Bric-a-­
powder 24 Do no work 57 Funny Bob 26 Detractor 59 For 28 Bread 
61 Scarlett raisers 62 Intended 30 "-Hai" 64 Sophia 31 Ayatollah 
65 "The bird-land the wing" 32 Gas holder 66 Oklahoma 33 Weather 
city word 67 Pitchers 34 It's clear 68 NCO to me 69 Canada 35 Caesar and .. 
and R.E. Luckman 
36 Carriers: DOWN abbr. Talented 40 Petition 
2 Bar sound 42 Ethel and -4-Banreonr family 
dance 43 Spring 4 Witch flower 5 Shotgun 44 Dozing 6 -an 45 -wlth envy 
ancient 47 Horror mariner" film, e.g. 7 "I-letter 50 Aspect to ... " 52 Courage ­8 Child's 53 Ford or 
game Pyle 9 Coast 54 Flat fish resort 55 Grub 
10 Army com-56 All too 
mand infrequent 11 Seamen 58 Aroma 12 Or-! 60 Bookie word 13 Hennaed 62 Towel word 18 Verdugo of 63 Torme or 
films Ferrer 
.· Football 
AP TOP TWENTY 

The Top Twenty teams In the Associated Press college football poll, with first place votes in parentheses, records and total points: 
1. So. Calltornia (51) 3-D-0 1,286 2. Alabama (13) 2-D-0 1,235 3. Oklahoma 2~ 1,122 4. Texas (1) 1-D-0 1,040 5. Missouri 3-D-0 898 6. Nebraska 2-D-0 862 7. Michigan State 3-D-0 816 8. Houston 2-o-0 755 9. Washington 3-D-0 635 10. Purdue 2-1-Q 599 11. Michigan 2-1-Q 564 12. Florida State 3-D-0 556 13. Arkansas 2-D-0 519 14. Ohio State 3-D-0 458 15. Notre Dame 1-1~ 436 
16. No. Carolina State 3-D-0 293 17. UCLA 2-1-D 280 18. Penn State 1-1-Q 261 19. Southern Methodlsst 3-D-0 246 20. Louisiana State 2-D-0 184 
Field Hockey 
Tuesday St. Mary's 2, Goshen 1 
Scorlnd SMC -Patty Tuite SMC -Patty Meagher Gos -Lisa Clemmer 

SMC Campus 
Wednesday Nutrition Clinic, at Angela Athletic Facility, 4:00-5:00 
Exercise class. Angela, 5:0D-5:45 

Co-recreational volleyball, Angela, l:l:30·10:30. 
Chisox sue 

CHICAGO (AP)--The parent company of the Chicago White Sox has sued rock-concert pro­moters for $3.8 million in connection with damage done to the Comiskey Park Field. 
Artnell Co. filed the suit Monday in Circuit Court against California Jam, Inc. The suit claims that damage done to resodded parts of the field during concerts Aug. 18 and 19 forced the White Sox to cancel three games. 
It added that the cancel­lations caused the tef}m to lose revenue from concessions, ticket sales, parkin~ proceeds and radio and telev1sion spon­sors. 
It cost more than $45,000 to restore the playing field, according to Artnell. 
There was no immediate comment from California Jam. 
The suit also said that California Jam failed to live up to an agreement to give Artnell a statement of gross receipts from the concerts and the percentage due the White Sox-­$10,000 a performance or 10 percent of therevenue, which­evc:;r was greater. 
McGregor 12-6) Toronto (Moore 5-6) at Boston (Rainex 7-5) Cleveland (Waits 16-13) at New York (Guidry 17-8) Seattle (Parrott 13-11) at Milwaukee (Haas 11-10) Chicago (Baumgarten 13-8) at Minnesota (Koosman 19-13) Oakland (Langford 12-15) at Texas (Medich 1Q-7) Kansas City (Leonard 13-11) at California (Barr 1D-12) 
On the Air 
"Sportsllne" with Brian Begiane, Paul Mullaney and Greg Meredith, WSND, AM-64, 11 p.m. 





Chicago 79 79 .500 16112 New York 58 99 .369 37 
Wast 
Cincinnati  88  69  .561  
Houston  87  71  .551  1%  
Los Angeles San Francisco  n 69  80 88  .400 .439  11 19  
San Diego Atlanta  66 63  91 93  .420 .404  22 24  

Tuesday's Results Chicago 11-3, New York 3-4, 2nd game 10 innings Houston 8, Atlanta 0 Pittsburgh 10, Montreal 4 St. Louis 4, Philadelphia 1 San Diego 8, Cincinn.1ti 2 . los Angeles 11, San Francisco 2 
Wednesday's Games 
New York (Kobel 6-8) at Chicago (Krukow
9-9) 

1 Wonder drug gins, to a 
5 Boxer's cockney 
weapon 29 Welsh­9 Appraised 33 Beauty con­14 Bunkum: var. test winner 15 Virginia 37 Parseghian 
willow 38 "-by the 16 Florence's window ... " 
land 39 Cartney 17 Remaining 40 Blueprint 19 Rhymed 41 Was ahead 
piece 42 Evolution 
20 Chang's character twin 46 Brown 21 "-we for-betty, e.g. 
get" 48 Solicitude 22 Prejudiced 49 Like fresh 23 Seoul's lettuce 
country ...... ~1-. "-.porridge 25 Fields hot" 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
ID4t 1!\ni!lftts 
men's hair styling only 5 minutes from campus 
:::~i!¢':) Are _you tired of hiKh prices? Then you need to take advantaf?e of our prices!! Tues. Wed .. and Thurs. receive 10% off a styled cut shamP,oo, atr dr:r. ref?. price 8.50· please show ID ask. for Ann, Marly, Donna or Joanne 

"HOURS: TUES. WED, SAT 8:30-!i.:lO 54533TERRACE LANE THURS. FRI 8:30-8:30 One Block East of ironwood North of State Road 23 
-· 


....
-----------~ 
/ 

Wednesday, September 26, 1979-page12 
Indiana here Friday 
Soccer no pie-in-the-face 
I remember the first time I ever saw a soccer game. Notre Dame played Bethel College and the Irish won by some score 
Frank

so rediculous, I can't even remember it. Of.course, I don't remember 
LaGrotta 

much of anythin~ except how cold it was that mght. In fact, I only stayed because I was luted by violence, cheap shots Dame kicked off against them, covering the game for this or inflated egos. 

the final score was 7-1 in favor 
newspaper. (I was very ambi­
At least not yet. of the boys from Bloomington,tious as a sophomore.) Any­The Notre Dame soccer team, but this year, things are a little 
way, I came away from the currently in its third year of bit d~erent. This year thefrostbiting experience thinking varsity competition, is 3-4-1 
game is being played at Notre
the whole thing was rather after yesterday's game against Dame --and this year the Irish boring, wondering whether the Indiana. Tech which Tech for­
think they can win.
Irish would win their next real feited when they refused to 
Frankly, so do I. I
football game and praying my come out for the overtime 
But to do it, to beat Indiana,feet would thaw out before period. The 3 is encouraging, Notre Ijlame will have to play
then. the 4 is misleading, but the 1 the best soccer game ever seenI was fairly sure I'd never go to tells the story. If represents a under the Golden Dome. Kevinanother soccer game unless I 2-2 tie that came on Cartier 
Lovejoy, Mike Mai, and Sami was well-paid and heavily Field Sunday against Loyola­Kahale will have to score goals. 
insulated. Baltimore. 
Jim Sabitus, Tom Crotty and
As things turned out, I was I know, I know ... ties are like Oliver Franklin will have to see wrong--which is becoming the; kissing your sister. But not a that the Hoosiers don't. And pattern these days. (Who else 
tie against the number eight Brian Cullather will have to 
do you know that picked Notre team in the entire nation. A 
smother every ball that comesDame to beat Purdue by 21 team that gives full scholar­near the goal. But !~don't want
points?) I just happened to stop 
ships (Notre Dame gives no· to single out any J.>layers be­
by a soccer game last spring scholarships for soccer) and has cause to beat Indiana, everyoneand I actually started enjoying a budget that's 10 times larger associated with the t~, fromit; until, that is, some cnminal than the Irish soccer treasury. the coach to the manager, will Notre Dame's Oliver oflast nights controversy. See 
smashed a whipped cream pie And you want excitement?!! Franklin, pictured here against 6elow. [photo by Dave was part
in my face. (I m never gomg Try this: The Irish were leading [continued on page 9] Purdue on Saturday, Rumbach] out during An Tostal again.) 1-0 through most of the game But even through the whipped before Loyola kicked two quick cream, I could see that I really ones to go ahead, 2-1, with In tennis liked it. (The game, not the about 20 minutes left in the pie.) game. 
These days I never miss a With 1:42 remaining, Notre 
Belles salvage week~nd split
soccer game and I'm not get­Dame's Kevin Lovejoy scored ting paid to go. In fact, I pay to the tying goal on a pass from get in. It only costs half a buck Jay Schwartz. The game went AnnaJain, twin sister to Aura, 6-1, while Bracken and Mowhich is less than the price of a 
into overtime, where the Irish by Deirdre Grant defeated the Belles number two O'Brien lost a tough one to hamburger at the Huddle. The dominated but could not s.:ore, Sports Wn.ter singles player Maureen Fitz-Olcott and Reynold 6-7, 7-5,
way I look at it, I'm getting two and it ended in a 2-2 deadlock. 
gerald 6-2, 6-0. Karen Smith 7-5. Though pushing hard for ahours of great entertainment "It's the kind of game that The Saint Mary's tennis team was defeated by Purdue's Mary come from behind win, Maenza 
and saving 500 calories a game. could make a difference in the was on the road early Saturday Christell 6-0, 6-1. Brad
Susan and Linda Radner lost to Lindow Which is not to say that you rest of the season," predicted morning to take· on Big 10 defeatedCarmeiMaenzabythe and Sterling 6-2, 7-5.
have to he fat to like soccer. In 
head coach Rich Hunter. "Now power Purdue; and they arrived same score. Fifth and Sixth Returiflg home from this busyfact I would recommend a Notre we know· we can play with the home late Sunday night after singles, Maureen O'Brien and tennis weekend, coach FreyDame soccer game to anyone. best." playing at Butler University. Mo O'Brien were unable to was able to take a close look at It is, perhaps, the only game That's good, because they'll At Purdue, number one challenge the Boilermakers los-the team; she is very encourag­left in America that is still be here on Friday at 4 p.m. singles player Patsy Coash ing 6-3, 6-2, and 6-0, 6-0, ed with what she sees. For a played for skill's sake. Its wearing bright red uniforms defeated Aura !Jain 6-2, 6-0. respectively. small college, Saint Mary'sexcitement comes from the that say "Indiana" on the However, the rest of the .team In doubles, Saint Mary's once undoubtedly has a good team. action on the field --a good shot jerseys. The number two team did not find the Boilermakers as again failed to find a winning Frey believes that the team is 
and a great save to stop it ... a in the country last year, the easy to handle. Consquently 
combination. The doubles team gaining .more depth and con­breakaway chance and a smart Hoosiers/resendy boast a 6-1 Saint Mary's found themselves ofJain and Jain downed Coash sistency. The practices have defensive play to kill it --the mark an a top-five national leaving West .Lafayette without and Smith 6-2, 6-0. Throwing a become more intense, and the 
little more salt on the wound, team hopes to be in top shape Christell 1 and Sherry Cannon for the state tournament. Look­fired away, defeating Fitzger-ing ahead for the Belles, this aid and Maureen O'Brien 6-0, young team has talent and 6-1. The doubles team of Jan depth, coupled with a strong Duonch and Terry Bracken were desire to win. Therefore, the also struck down by a score of . rest of rhe season should prove 6-4,6-2. to be quire exciting. 
Though the ride from Purdue to the Belles second weekend match against Butler must have 
Controvers_v in
been dtsheartening, the girls managed to leave their Lafayet­te woes behind, and come with soccer victor_v a 6-3 win over Butler Univer­

sity. The Notre Dame Soccer team Coash onc.e again looked picked up its third win of the outstanding, defeating Sarah .1979 season yesterday with a Fee 6-0, 6-1. Sandy Frey, the 4-3 overtime win at Indiana Belles coach, summed it all up. Tech. The contest was 
"I can't say enough about shrouded with controversy that Pasty. Even against Purdue, led to the ejection of three Tech though worried, she got herself players and Notre Dame full­psyched up and won without back Oliver Franklin. any trouble." Fitzgerald beat For reasons unknown, Butler's Fran Willson 6-2, 6-4. Indiana Tech refused to take 
Saint Mary's number three the field for the overtime singles player, Smith, lost to period, which caused them to 
Jenny Young 7-5, 6-1. Getting forfeit the game to Notre Dame. back on the winning road. The score was 3-2 in favor of Maenza rolled over Nancy) Ol­the home team when Notre 
cott 6-1, 6-1, Maureen.O'Brien Dame's Bill Wetterer, on a/ass edged past Pat Curt wright from Tim Nauman, knotte the 7-5, 6-4, and Bracken defeated score with 18:15 to play. 
Barb Skinner 6-2, 6-3. Then with a little more than In doubles, Coash and Smith three minutes r~maining in the: 
Maureen 0 'Bnen peiforms at Lafayette on Saturday for the SMC netters. [photo Dave Rumbach] 
flew past Fee and Willson 6-1, [continued on page 9] 







