Digger's 'perspective ' -page 12 

VOL. XIII, NO. 70 \/ an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 1979 
John Paul II initiates his mission plans 
SANTO DOMINGO, Domini­can Republic [AP] -Pope ]ohn Paul IIIknelt tokiss the Dominican sOil yesterday as he started his "mission to spread the gospel" i~ a week-long Latin Amt>rican 
VISit. 
During his flight here from Rome, the pope entered the cockpit of the Alitalia OC-10 to l:hat briefly with President Carter over a crackling radio circuit, The pontiff greeted Carter as the plane flew over Puerto Rico, but the conversation was cut off because of poor connections, Vatican officials accompanying the pope reported. 
At 12:40 p.m. EST, the pope stepped from the door of the jetliner, smiled and spread his arms wide as he walked down the steps of the plane onto this Caribbean island. 
"The pope wants his mission to be one of spreading the gospel. That is why I decided to arrive here followmg the route that, at the time of the discovery of the 

Although the predicted blizzard bypassed the South Bendarea, ND students still found campus
New World, was established by 
conditions ve_r;y_ hazardous as they trekked to their mid-day classes yesterday [photo by Tracy 
the first missionaries," the pon­
jane McAuliffe]
tiff said in Spanish during his airport address. The main purpose of his jour­ney is to open the Latin American 

Keenan freshman forced to move off campus
bishop's conference in Mexico, smoking in Keenan,'' Conyers understood it, he was not accus._J 
and he will fly to Mexico City by Diane Wilson younger or weaker people, when said. of any disciplinary infraction.
today. 

As the 58-year-old pontiff step­News Editor a significant amount of students The freshman said the action The action was taken at the ped onto the island that was come and request that something came "our of the blue." "A request of Conyers, according to
A freshman from Keenan Hall be done about another student's friend of mine told me I was the freshman, and Roemer tolddiscovered by Christopher Co­has been ordered to move off actions or when a student's abuse being kicked off," he said.· him he would stand by thatlumbus he knelt to kiss the camJ?US by the Office of Student of rules becomes obviously Conyers said the student was request.

ground before greeting President Affrurs in what Dean of Students public.'' · informed of the action in a letter Roemer, who would not dis-Antonio Guzman. 

James Roemer termed a "non­Conyers, though not referring to from the Office of Student cuss specific details of the case,Thousands cheered as he was disciplinary action.'' the student in question, Affairs. The student recalled said this type of action is notdriven in an open car along the The freshman was asked to emphasized the problem of mari­that he did receive a letter, but unusual. He said this is the first18-mile poute from Las Americas move because "he does not ftt juana smoking in the dorms. He said ''all it said was to make an time this year this has takenAirport to the Santo Domingo into Keenan Hall life,' ' according stated that he felt that this is a appointment with Roemer and I place, but that it usually happens cathedral, the oldest cathedral m. 
to Fr. Richard Conyers, rector of very serious problem and claimed had already done that. " three of four times a year.
the New World. Many waved Keenan. that most people are affected As of yesterday afternoon, the He emphasized that the action

Vatican and Dominican flags and held up pictures of the Polish-Conyers said a student does ~egativdy by the use of mari­Freshman Year of Studies was is not a disciplinary one. 
not fit into Keenan Hall life when JUana. not aware of the action taken by According to both du Lac and the 
[contmued on page 4] he "has a persisting influence on "You'd better not get caught Student Affairs. "Dr. (Emil) housing contract which student Hofman (dean ofFreshman Year) sign, the University retains the and I have not been informed of right to transfer a student's the situation by anyone," said residence at any time, Roemer Peter Grande, assistant dean of pointed out.

Forutndiscusses housing probletn 
Freshman Year. The student's academic stand­, 'The Policy is that freshmen ing will not be affected by the are guaranteed housing and are action, Roemer said.
Van Wolvlear also discussed the steps the
by Tom jackman expected to live on campus, with He explained that this is the
administration has taken to avoid a lottery. These
Stajj J<.eporter the exception of freshmen who normal procedure followed for
included considering increasing the number of 
live in the area and reside at this rype of action. If a rector A dismal turnout characterized last night's students per room in several dorms, where home," Grande said. comes to the Office of Student
feasible, or constructing rooms in the "Halfway
forum with Fr. John Van Wolvlear, Vice Roemer said he was aware that Affairs and asks that a student be
House" of Holy Cross Hall, in the basement of
President of Student Affairs, which was held in the student was a freshman and moved out of the hall, Student
Lewis Hall, and in the Holy Cross Annex. The
the Flanner Pit. The forum was a question-and­added that no special allowance Affairs will usually grant the
latter two have since been discarded. The
answer session dealing w!th so'?e of the m~jor was made because he was a request-hr stated.
University also applied fora federal loan, but was
campus issues at present, mcludmg the housmg­freshman. He did add, howevt;r, emphasized:rors are in the best
turned down, Van Wolvlear said. 
lottery situation. that he planned to notify Hofman posttion to know what the situat-
Only nine-people wer~ prest:'nt at the appvinted Van Wolvlear stressed that if the money were immediately. ton is and I back them up," 
starting time of7:30 p.m., no more than 14 were there, a new dorm would be built, despite the The student said that Conyers Roemer said. 
in attendance at any one time. complication this might have, such as overcrowd­explained to him that the move The student said that when he 
The majority of the questions were directed ing m dining and recreational facilities. would be better for both him and talked to Roemer, ~here was no 
toward the housing problem. Van ~olvlear Van Wolvlear also pointed out ·that "the Keenan Hall because he was a question that he would be forced 
pointed out that the $250 fine to be levied upon. Administration thought they were going to get bad influence and was causing to move off campus. He was 
those who do not fulfill their housing contracts Columba (Hall). I don't know why they thought the decline of a number of people given the chance to tell his side of 
would not be imposed upon students who that, but they did." Van Wolvlear noted, in the hal~. the story only after he had been 
withdraw ''within a reasonable time beyond the however, that "they have great historical, This was "preposterous" the told he would have to leave 
deadline." sentimental feeling there. Originally, Father student said, because he was Keenan, he said. 
The penalty was designed to prevent students Sorin brought in more brothers than priests .... so only a freshman didn't feel he Conyers had given him the 
from vacating rooms once they have been they have the histotical foot in the door." had any influence on anyone. He impression that Roemer would at 
assigned, he said, and aims to make as many The advantages of Columba would be its pointed out that he has a 3.0 GPA least listen to him, but "there 
rooms as possible available. Van Woi-ylear was capaciry of rou~hly 200 and a "good-sized" m Engineering and felt that the was no way," the student said. 
"quite sure" that a ~efund .would be.given, an~ dining hall, which could service Holy Cross, charges of bad influence were He added that he had the option 
"special consideration wtll be gtven if 1t Carroll and Lewis as well. unfounded. of appealing the decision to the 

(withdrawal) is done in a hur . " [continued on page 5 The student said that as he continued on 
-----------------------------------------------------------~P---------------.-----~-----, 

News in brief 
Snowbound Chicago suffers from severe crime outbreak 
CHICAGO (AP)·· The driver of a snow plow is .accused of going on a rampage, hitting 34 vehicles and running over a car, crushing a man inside to death. A m?toris~ is sta~bed to ~eath when he honks his horn at a car blocking hts path m the mtddle of a snowy street. Crazy things are happening in Chicago. Nerves are frayed after two weeks of storms, of collapsing roofs from snow drifts six feet deep, of trans~onation ~oes that make going to wor~ aln;10st a battle of survtv~. Pohce blame a 69 percent increase-m murders on quarreling people cooped up mside because of the snow. 
Hoosier taxpaying couples may split up to split cash 
INDIANAPOUS (AP) . Complaining that federal income tax laws discriminate against married wage-earners, state Rep. Phyllis Pond suggests that couples should be allowed to separate on the last day of theJear to avoid the higher taxes. The New Haven Republican tol ~eponers at a ~tat~house news conference yesterday that she wtll s{>onsor legtslat1on to ~llow couples to file in small claims coun for a one-day sep~ratton. The grounds would be financial disadvantage, she satd. The separation would expire on Jan. 1, under Mrs. Pond's proposal. 
Parents may face charges after kidnapping own son 
SCITUATE, Mass. (AP) · Chad Green's parents have whisked him into hiding, and the judge who forbade Laetrile treatments for the 3-year-old leukemia vtctim said yesterday they could face kidnapping charges. Gerald and Diana Green left behind a note saying that ''Chad must be protected from any further ignorance and pride, greed and violence." The boy's grandmother, with whom the family had been living, said the parents were "distraught" over a Plymouth County Superior Court order Tuesday prohibirin~ them from givmg Chad Laetrile and vitamins to fight hts cancer. 

Weather 
Increasing cloudiness today with highs in the low to mid 20s. Mostly cloudy tonight with lows in the mid teens. A chance for snow tomorrow with highs in the upper 20s. A chance of snow Sunday and Monday. Highs mostly m the 20s to the lower 30s. Lows in the teens and 20s. 

s 
Friday, January 26 
3:30 :. I:E~"'·when the world begins," prof. kenneth sayre, ND UBRARY FAC. LOUNGE, sponsored by the philosophy dept. 
5:15 --MASS AND DINNER, at the BUlLA SHED 
6 8:30 & 11 pm ·• SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES, .:autobiography of miss jane pittman," ENGR. AUD. 
6,8:30 & 11 pm ·· SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES, "on the 
waterfront,' WASH. HALL 
6:30pm .. TRACK MEET, nd vs. bowling green, ACC 
7:30pm .. WRESlUNG, nd vs. nebraska, ACC. 
Saturday, January 27 
1 pm •• WRESTIJNG, nd vs. john carroll, ACC. 
2 pm .• BASKETBAlL, smc vs. nd, ANGELA A1HlETIC 
FAOUlY 
3:30 pm •. BASKElBAIL, nd vs. maryland, NATIONAU.Y TELEVISED 
8 pm .. FILM, "last year at mariembad," ENGR. AUD. 
8 pm .. CONCERT, marshall tucker band, ACC. 
Sunday, January 28 
1:30pm .. MEETING, ham radio club, GRACE PENTIIOUSE 
3,6 & 8:30 ··FILM, "the pawnbroker," ENGR. AUD. 
3,6 & 8:30pm .. FILM, "save the tiger," WASH. HALL 
6:30pm .. MEETING, alpha phi omega, ZAHM BASEMENT 
7 & 10 pm •• FILM, "the king & i," CARROlL HALL SMC, $1 


Friday, January 26, 1979 -Page 2 

Hesburgh publishes essays 
"The Hesburgh Papers: Hi~her Values in Higher Edu­cation," a collection of essays by Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University president, will be published in May by Andrews and McMeel, Inc. 
The topics covered by Hes­burgh, whose 27 years at Notre Dame give him the lon~est tenure among active Amencan colleges and university presi­dents, include the contem­porary Catholic university, the civil rights revolution, the years of campus crises, and the post· Vatican II Church. 
~The Observer_ Night Editor: Frank Kebe Asst. Night Editors: Pam Degnan Beth Huffman CoJ?y Readers: Mike Shields, Phtl Cackley Layout Staff: Tina Terlaak, Lynn Tyler, Rod Beard, Scoop Sullivan [residentpest] Editorial Layout: GregHedges Features Layout: Tom Behney, Chns Stewart Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typitst: Mardi Nevin, Mark Perry, Mary McCauley, Lisa DiValen'oPaula Vernon, Kim Convey, Rosie Rodgers Day Editor: Keith Melaragbo Ad Layout: ~/ue johnson, Chns Slatt Photog~~pher Tracy jane Me McAulijje  
The Observer [USPS 598 9201 is published Monday through Friday ex· cept during exam and vacati~n periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year [$10 per seme.sterj from The Observer, P.O. box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame.. In· diana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rigIlls are reserved.  
Watch The Secrets of Fatima a 13 part T.V. series 9 AM Sunday, Jan. 28 thru Sunday April 22 WNDU-TV Channel 16  

•..TUES. 7·1D 

nita 
........ -·,_ by ,~ ~ ~""• ND& SMC ~~-grads

~~ _,..,..;' ;;orner of Eddy and South Bend Special prices lor thoae showing ticket stubs after ACC athletic 
The book also draws upon Hesburgh's off-campus exper­iences as a charter member and former chairman of the U.S. Commision on Civil Rights, the former head of the International Federation of Catholic Univer­

'>ities, chairman ofthe Overseas Development Councd and pres· ident of the Rockefeller Foun· dation. His most recent book was ''The Humane Impera­tive," published in 1974 by the Yale University Press. 
Nazz staff to organize 
There will be an organizational Plans for this semester will also meeting for all members of the be discussed. Nazz and those interested in For more information, call joining the staff Sunday at 7 p.m. Gene (1803), Mary (7375), orJim in the basement of LaFortune. (8227). 
a .&utroau ma&s.es 
~=~ 

hrrtb B.eart Qtl}urrlJ 
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:15a.m. Sunday Rev. John VanWolvlear, C.S.C. 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
7:15p.m. Vr-~pers Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. . 
PREPARE FOR: 

RICAT·DAT·LSAT·GIIAT PCAT•GRE•OCAT·VAT· SAT 1MB I. II. III·ECFMG·FLEX·VQE 

NATL DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS Flexible Programs & Hours 
Visit Our Centers & See For Yourself Why We Make The Difference 
LSAT, GRE GMAT~~-H Classes KIIPUIN 

EDUCATIONAL CENTER" TEST PREPARATION
now form1ng 

SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
caD 291-3150 





o£ II 
DJ~Bm·~ 
1ugt 5 mUt. 

~llom campus 
cAQQ lteadg aile tullned to the 
I(NJ(5JI(U'~ 
once a yeaft gaQe on *uUen'g cpett~ * 

put gome body. ill yM ~lam lfJft tM.t g~teat Qoo/2 l 
u\JatultaQ uUan-cpe~m 1tmt S22.50 !teguQa!t S96.00 
Qocated Qowe~ QeveQ Ob .Guee11'9 Cm~tQe 545gg tTe/tltQce ~a11e 277-1691 
The Observer Friday, January 26, 1979 -Page 3 

The Saint Mary's Lake's ducks take a break from their datly routine to rest by a hole in the ice. 
• • . Freshman 
-------'-----------·-­

[continued (rom page I] 
viu:-pres1dent for Student Affairs, but felt it would do no good. The whole affair was "a shock to me," he stated. 
Conyers said this is the first time that an incident of this type has happened in Keenan. He stated that he believed both he and the assistant rector had spoken to the freshman about the problem. 
Referring to his job as a rector, Conyers sa1d that it was his place to see that all Keenan residents get the most out ofuniversit) Iii; 
He said he felt that the soluuoJ1 arrived at was the best for all involved. 
Conyers said that the Freshman Year of S• udies should have been contacted, but added that the question has to do with resident­iality. He questioned whether any solution that would leave the freshman . residing on campus would be acceptable. He did say, however, that there was poor communication between himself and Freshman Year. 

Sunday and Monday January 2tJ & 29 7 & IOpm Carroll Hdll · SMC sponsored by St. :\1ary's social commission 


Grace Hall resident suffers extensive loss in stereo theft 
by Tim joyce StaffReporter 

Stereo equipment totalling $3,200 has been reported mis­sing from a student's room in Grace Hall, the result of an apparent burglary during sem­ester break. The incident is currently under investigation by the Security Department. 
Joseph Wall, director of Se­curity, said yesterday that this was the only reported incident involving students' dorm rooms. There were, however, four reports of attempted bur­glary involving vending mach­
mes  in  other  buildings  on  
campus  during break.  
The  equipment  stolen  in  

Grace included a complete stereo system valued at over $2,500 and a pair of speakers, valed at approximately $700. The stereo system was not covered by the University's insurance policy. 
''When students bring to school stereo equipment, cam­

B€€R SPECials! 
p~~LOOS€ $5.89 ffi~ElOB $8.25 
natuRal bqht 6 pac $1.69 Otymp1a 
24 LOOS€ $6.59 
Busch 12 pac $.3.39 cas€ $6.75 


31 €Z maRket 
eras, televisions, etc. of that value, they should first make sure that it is covered by some sort of insurance policy, be it the University's or their own homeowner's policy," Wall commented. ''I urge all stu­dents to ~et insurance on items of value. ' 
Wall also mentioned that marking the items with one's driver's license number or social security number is a good idea. If there is a break-in, the items have a better chance of being returned to their owners if they are marked, he said. 
During break, the security department emrloyed between 12 and 15 hal monitors who were assigned to watch over the 
halls  24  hours  a  day.  In  
addition,  many  rectors  who  
remained  on  campus  during  

break also looked after their 
halls. 
The hall monitors' duty was 
to make complete tours of the 
dorms at least twice a day. The 
monitors checked the exterior 
of the dorms, making sure that 
all windows were secured, and 
all doors were locked. If a door 
was found unlocked, the moo· 
itor made a note of it, and 
locked the door, Wall 
explained. 
In addition to making secur­ity checks, the monitors were also instructed to be on the lookout for fire damage, or broken pipes. There was one incident of a broken pipe re­ported, Wall noted. 
"We were pretty lucky to have only one reported break-in during break. In comparison, Purdue University had over 35 reported break-ins," Wall con­cluded. 

CELEBRATION I SUNSHINE 
and 
N.D. STUDENT UNION Ptesent 





HEART 
with guest 

EXILE 
Thursday . Feb 22 s:oo Pm 
.NOTRE· DAmE ACC 
Tickets S8.00 and S7.00 on sale ffion JGn 29 ACC Ticket Office 
and 
Student Union Ticket Office 




The Observer Friday, January 26, 1979 -Page 4 
... John Paul II 
[continued from page 1] 
born pope. 
White-robed nuns and Domini­can troops were among the crowds lining the highway. 
It is John Paul's first trip outside Italy since his election Oct. 16. 
Continuing to break protocol and tradition, the pontiff surpris­ed journalists aboard his jet by walking back to their compart­ment as soon as the seatbelt sigq was turned off on the flight from Rome. 
In an 80-minute conversation on the plane, John Paul said that he will visit the United States and France and that he intends to use ' 'spiritual and moral pursuasion' ' to solve conflicts and avoid war. On Wednesday, the Vatican an­nounced the pope would person­ally mediate a territorial dispute between Argentina and Chile. 
He told -reporters he had discussed prospects for world peace Wednesday during his two-hour session with Soviet Forei.gnt Minister Andrei A. uromyko and welcomed any criti­cism from communist officials. 
When asked to conftrm reports that he planned to address the 

U.N. General Asembly in New 
STEREO CLEARANCE HOU~'= HAS LOWEST STEREO 
PR 
Pioneer SX780 Receiver $249 
Technics SL3300 Turntable $125 
Akal CS702D Cassette $125 
Our Free Catalog has many more deals on major brands, even lower prices on our monthly specials sheet. Send now and find out how to buy current $7.9BIIst lp's for $3.69. Stereo Clearance House Dept. CH81, 1029 Jacoby St., Johnstown, Pa. 15902. Phone Quotes 814-536-1611. • 


Kings
' 


Cellar 



Lowest Prices -Check our Competitor 
York City later this year, the pope President Valery <Jiscard 
replied, "I suppose it will be d'Estaing, Vatican officials said, 
necessary. The time has not and as he flew over the Azores, 
been set." he gave a papal blessing to the 
The General Assembly opens residents of Portugese colony. 
in September. The Dominican Republic is 
In his message to Carter, the the site of the ftrst Mass in the 
pope asked for God's blessing for New World, celebrated by a 
the American people and convey­priest in Columbus' second ex­
ed the pontifFs best wishes. The pedition in 1493. 
president's reply was not clear Pope John Paul will celebrate 
because of the poor quality of the Mass in Santo Domingo's cathe­
circuit. dral, tour the capital and spend
As the plane flew over France, the night, then fly Friday to 
th,e pope sent a teleg~am to Mexico City. 
An Tostal committee to meet 
The first organizational the meeting and should be turned 
meeting for the 1979 An Tostal in immediately afterwards. committee will be held this Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Little Applications for committee Theatre of LaFortune Sturl.ent positions will be handed out at Center. The executivestaff will the meeting and should be turned give a brief overview or this in immediately afterwards. Ap­year's An Tostal and answer any plications will be available in the questions. student government offices for 
Applications for committee persons who cannot attend Sun­positions will be handed out at day's meeting. 

2934 E. McKinley 233-9466 1725 N. Ironwood 272-7144 113 U.S. 31 N; (Roseland). 272-2522 
ISPECIALSI 
T 
WINES 
~ 
1WHISKEY 
l 
BEERS 
-t 
KEGS 
Seagram 7 


$569 qt. . 
-plus -
Camolet 
12 yr old Scotch 


$599 

5th 
-Also -
Popov 
vodka 


$399qt. 
IN COMMEMORATION OF THE FEAST OF 
SAINT THOMAS AQUINAS 
Sponsored By 
THE MEDIEVAL INSTITUTE 
JANUARY 29, 1979 
I. A LECTURE 
Professor Leonard Boyle, O.P., of the Pontifical Institute of Mediaev~l Studies, University of Toronto 
"Saint Thomas Aquinas and Pastoral Care" 
3:30 P.M.-The Medieval Institute Reading Room 
2. A MASS 
5:00 P.M.-In Alumni Hall Chapel Homilist: Rev. Edward O'Connor, C.S.C. 
3. A DINNER 
6:00 P.M.-At the University Club 
Those intending to come to dinner (total cost: $5.36) contact Mrs. Hegedus at 6604 before 5 on Friday, January 26 
,---------------~



iBULLA SHED I 
I 5:15 mass and supper ~ I I ili~frhl~ ~II I
I and every friday-CC!II)P.,US • 
\ m1n1;s..ry I 
~---------------' 
TOMPSETT STUDIO 
2810 Mishawaka Ave 232-9963 
South Bend, lnd. 
CLIP THIS COUPON!!!!

I,---------------~\
IRIVER CITY RECORDS I 
I South Bend's Largest Record G I I Tape Selection & II Concert Ticket Headquarters I 
I $1.00 OFF! ~ I 
I COUPON t'~ I
I ~~ I 
I Any album or tape with this coupon. Limit 1. Now thruJan. 31. II Not good on cut-outs, imports or other sale items. I 
I ND/SffiC checks accepted for up to 11 110.00 over purchase amount ! 1 1 16,000 albums and tapes to choose from I 
1 Peach crates available 1 
I River City Records I
I I
50970 u.s. 31 North, 3 miles north of Notre Dame Open 10-10 7 days a week I 277-4242\ 


~---------------' 



Ginsberg, Cheever to headline literary festival 
reason for Linney's indusior. is that "it has always been an 

• • . Forum discusses objective of the festival 
[continued from page ] 

Junior Class President Oan McCurrie, who did a good deal of the questioning, asked about the measures taken by the University to increase security in light of last month's off-campus shooting in­cident. Van Wolvlear res~nded that a meeting with neJghbor­hood representatives and l~al 
police has produced greatly IO· creases patrols of ~h~ ar!!8, adding that the Admirustratlon even offered its own security staff to patrol occasionally. 
Van Wolvlear cited the fact that crime in South Bend was up over 60% from a year ago, but only 32% in the area most heavily present newcomers as well as 
by Michael Om~fral.  Contrasting the controvers1al  scheduled for Tuesday, Mar. 6,  
Ginsberg is fiction writerJohn  v.:hile McMurry will appear on  
Allen Ginsberg· and John  Cheever, who will appear on  etther Monday,· Mar. ~ or  
Cheever will head an ''even and  Wednesday, Mar. 7. Cheever  Thursday, Mar. 7, depending  
well balanced" Sophomore  is noted for his short stories and  on the availability of playwright  
literary Arts Festival, accord­ novels, including the recent  author David Mamet. Mamet is  
in~ to Larry Siems, chairman of  Falconer. The Short' Stories of  the author of American Buffalo.  
this year's festival.  john Cheever recently  Bl.ack novelist and poet Ish  
The festival, which takes  garnered for its author the  mael. Reed will be on campus  
place March 4-10, annually  National Critics Circle Award  Friday, Mar. 8. . He will be  
hosts novelists; poets and phiy­ for best fiction book of 1978.  followed on Saturday night by  
rights who give readings and  William Gaddis, Larry Mc­ poet and transhitor Roben S.  
hold workshops.  Murry, Ishmael Reed, RobertS.  Fitzgerald, best known for his  
The festival will open Sunday  Fitzgerald, John Frederick  translation of Homer's !Iliad  
night, March 4, with beat poet  Nims, Hilda Morley, and  and Od_ysfey. .  
Allen Ginsberg. Ginsberg's list  Romulus Linney ·complete the  · .Appearmg throughout the re­ 
of honors incudes the confis~a­ line-up for the remainder of the  mainder of the week will be  
tion of his works by U.S.  week.  Ni.ms, Morley, and Linney.  
customs officials and their trial  Gaddis is a novelist whose  Nims is a poet and editor of  
for obsceniry. Drug experimen­ best knows work is ].R. Film  Poetry magazine. Morley is a  
tation, pohtics and Eastern  writer Larry McMurry is a  poetess, and Linney is a young  
religions are a few of the  Texan who authored The Last  and virtually unknown play­ 
important forces in his poet11;'.  Pz"cture Show. Gaddis is  wright.  
According to Siems, the  

populated by Notre Dame stu­he directed to the Administration established literary figures.''dents. the day after the shooting, saying Siems' received ·Linney's name that "it's still a high crime as the result of a faculty
At this time, there does not 
area ... and the studen~ still have 
recommendation.

seem to be any set plan for a lottery, but Van Wolvlear said, "I a right to be mad." "This year's festival has 
been nearly self-generating,"hope we can get something McCurrie also predicted that a Siems said,· ''thanks to a longfinalized sometime." He dismis­lottery will not have to .be held, list of prominent writers whosed the possibility that the lottery because the threat of one has was only being used as.a threat, already induced many juniors to 

have participated in our festival saying ''I wouldn't characterize it move off campus. in the past, which we send to as a scare tactic." 
prospective participants." In­
cluded on the list are Norman 
Mailer, Kurt Vonnegut, Robert 
Penn Warren, Tennessee Will­
iams, and Nobel-prize winner 
Isaac Bashevis Singer. 
In addition to the list, the fact 
that the festival is one of the 
few liter~ festivals in the 
country wh1ch are totally run 
and financed by students is 
attractive to many literary per­
sonalities. Siems said that most 
of the financing comes from the 
Student Union, an Indiana Ans 
Grant , and donations. 
A third factor which deter­mines the success or failure of the festival is the Executive Committe, which is comprised of students who are responsible for the majority of the work. Siems characterized this year's committee of Paula Groves, Ann Hesburgh, Mark Rust, and Rich Tischler as "excellent. " Siems also expressed his thanks to all of the other students who have donated their time to help with the festival's planning. 
Siems' only concern for the upcoming festival is atten­dance. Last year's attendance was "good," but this year's chairman is hoping for an even better turnout. He was quick to emphasize that all events will be free and open to all students. 

It had been rumored that as many as 50 juniors had planned to attend the forum. McCurrie 
said he knew nothing about the rumored plan, adding. that he 


THENAZZ

attended only for rus· own benefit. He defended the searing let_(er 
,_sP~~rt~0~ sr{ .<~~~ '(1b~~ort ). ,}d . ~ Thurs. Feb. 22 SUN, JAN 28 6:00pm LAFORTUNE LOBBY -Limit 10 tickets per person price $8.00 $7.00 Tickets go on sale. Monday Jan 29 9:00am at Student Union Box Office --Also available at ACC Gate 10 9:00-5:00  IS BACK!!! •••••••••••••••••• Friday: Jim Speier and Company and Smoky Joe Saturday: Open Stage ·······················~· The NAZZ will open at 9:00 PM and stay open until 1:3() AM. So come and listen to great music and have some relaxing fun!! 256-0922U.S.A. SKATING Evety Sunday Night is College Night! • SKATE .ftom 9:00-10:30 SKATESfotonly 50¢ INCLUDED Admittance and discount with this ad and college I.D. ---It's a whollatta funii--­Take Edison to Left on main 3909 M. main In mishawaka OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK  

Want ta m••t IWW p•aplll and hav• a lat af fun ANTDSTAL Fir•t artJanizatianal m••tiniJ 7:DD Sunday. January28 fir•t flaar Lafartun• •x•cutiv• •fa m••t8 at &:BD)  




Editorials 
Friday, January 26, 1979 -Page 6 

P. 0. Box Q 
WHC calls students to fast 
Dear Editor: 
It is once again the time of 
year when Notre Dame stu­
dents are asked to give up their 
Wednesday night meals m con­
junction wtth the Notre Dame­
Saint Mary's World Hunger 
Coalition's fasting program. 
The program consists of 
students signing a pledge sheet 
whereby a large percentage of 
the cost of the faster's 
Wednesday night meal goes to 
the Hunger Coalition. The 
funds attained from the fasting 
program comprise the majority 
of the money collected yearly by 
the Hunger Coalition. This 
money is dispersed to groups 
and agencies throughout the 
world which try to obliterate 
hunger. 
The fasting program, which has been in existence at Notre Dame for several years, has been admired by many other groups from campuses across the United States. Last semes­ter several members of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's World Hunger Coalition partici­pated in a workshop in Madison, Wisconsin. The work shop was sponsored by Bread for the World, the largest citizen's lobby group forhunger issues. Students from hunger related groups on campuses throughout the midwest partici­pated in the workshop. It became apparent to the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's students that the World Hunger Coali­tion is one of the largest and most active groups in the midwest. The fasting program 
at Notre Dame became a subject of discussion and envy ~mong the students represent­mg other campuses. 
Although it is nice for the Hunger Coalition to have a pat on the back, it cannot be considered such when the number of fasters drops tre­mendously each semester. Of course the major question is why. A few years ago when famine was a headline. issue and even the subject of a famous rock concert, .there were over a thousand (asters at Notre Dame. Hunger. is just as prevalent today as it was then but it often is only me.ntioned as one of a certain country's maoy problems. Vietnam, Cambodia, and Nicaragua are three exam­ples where·. famine ru~s rampant; yet, 10. the. press, thetr food problems become s.econ­dary to their political problem~. 
The fasung program ts designed to provide a response to the situation of hunger 10 our world today through' active participation in the pligh~ of millions daily. Please consider these millions of fellow men, women and. child.ien when the Hunger Coalition asks you to give up your Wednesday night meal. · 
Maria J arvey 
Team Support A Matter of Choice 
Dear Editor: 

Earth calling Frank LaGrotta, come in please. Frank, have you ever made a connection between sports and entertainment? I'm more than a little tired of people (you are not alone) telling we students about our OBUGATION to which ever team you choose. To any sane person, the thought that the fans mights be respon­sible for a loss, is absurd. Frank, you are a rah-rah to the nth degree and have obviously lost touch with reality. I'm sure the 
DOONESBURV by Garry Trudeau 

cheerkaders don't appreciate occurred in the second half of with a quite understated grace. your misguided pot-shots either. the San Francisco game last We think the Wizard of West­
Marqu,ette last year and espe­Thursday evening. The un­wood is a model of style for cially USF two years ago were ranked Don's had reduced a every sportsman ... and coach. very unique situations. The twenty-one point Irish lead to circumstances spontaneously seven, and that.is when Dig~er TomAieto generated enthusiasm far above came ·off the bench, callmg Joe Chase that of a "normal" UCLA game. timeout. · Marty Zamora Big games always create their Coach Phelps promptly own excitement. I scream· and stalked to halfcourt and loudly ydl because I enjoy it, not made it clear to a good share of Equality extends because some .fanactic tells me the arena thiu he was unhappy to. You can encof!rage .more with the effort of the cheer­enthusiasm but you make a big leaders. Had the cheerleaders beyond bedroom mistake when you criticize a level squandered the Irish lead? No, of.support that always haS been but in Digger's mind, they had Dear Editor: tops. not been · backin~ his_ team Brian Hogan's ankle in Tues­
We are not playing the ga,me satisfactorily. · Dtgger was day's issue raised many good ourselves ahd for the team to an~iy with them, and we heard pomts. But we feel that he totally depend on us would be it m the. bleachers. placed the blame entirely on the their mistake. They have to win we think this oehavior is the women at Notre Dame. Women on the road don't they? We'll clearest display to date of should have sexual freedom, if keep on cheering but not just to disturbing tende[Jcies in they want to. But ifmore men at suit you or some Chicago sports­. Digger's court personality. Notre Dame knew the difference writer. Phelps seems to see himself as between having sex and making Sean Kearney the concert ·master who orches­love, then more women would trates the play of his team and enjoy sexual freedom. Who the emotions of. the· fams. We wants to be attacked on the first W'ould suggest that Coach date before you even get out ofStudents. question Phelps take care of his men on D-2? Mr. Hogan did mention the court, and the nation's that men had trouble making that number one .student body ·will particular distinction, but he
coach's actions take care of the rest..We need neglected to elaborate on that not· be prodded to hysteria. We problem as thoroughly as he did love good basketball, and when on women's lack of sexual free­
Dea1' Editor: the Irish need us to bring down dom. There· is no doubt in our the. roof of the 'ACC yourr If more men thought like Mr. 
minds that Richard Phelps is a cheers, we 'will. Witness our Hogan does, that women can fine basketball coach. Due award winning performance enjoy sex without becoming just largely to his efforts, Notre twO years ago against those someone to pick up at the bars or Dame has· become as well same Sah Francisco Dons. at a party, then women could known for its basketball team~ Coach . Phe~ps has made have more equality at Notre 
as for its legendary football Notre Dame a national basket· Dame. But men should also teams. He is an excellent ball {>OWeC . We could not be recognize .two things: that recruiter, probably withqut happier about that. But there is women are equal whether they peer in the nation. · something so much more ad­say yes or no, and that equality 
But it is time something was mireable about a· winner who extends far and beyond the said. What anr;toys us· are di!!dains flashy showmanship. bedroom. 
Dig~er' s · courtside antics, in John Wooden won one National janet Rigauxparticular an incident which Championship after another Megan McCready 
Response to Article Sexual attitudes demand change 
This letter is written directly enough to know that they are) a charter member of its to Mr. Brian Hogan in response control their own bodies, and club. To some, virg1nity is a to _his blatantly sexist article they reserve the right for disease to be rid of as quickly''Sex and Equality: ND's. Virgin selectivity. The "men" here as possible, but to others it is Territory" (Observer January can not handle that. If they something to cherish and pre­23, :79). If anyone else in the choose to turn down -your serve until one special moment ND/SMC community cares to .animalistic/ amorous advances, or forever. You must respecteavesdrop, feel free to do so. then, Mr. Hogan, the line to the that point of view. 
Mr. Hogan, you have just set cold showers forms tb the rear. A point that you failed to back 10 years what you have You've struck out. bring U{> was that the fault mayattemeted to·spur on ·· mainly, The men here also not not lie 10 the Catholic Church,
can 

male/female equality .. I am a handle females at all. Is it but rather in the tensions 
Notre Dame male,·but I am sure because the men come fr0m resulting from the remnants of 
that your cutting re.marks _about all-male parochial high schools the 1960's "sexual revolution" 
the sexual propriety of the l~:>c~l which allow limited male female and today's Women's Libera­
somen drove deep wounds mto contact? Are the men the victim.s tion. The 1960's gave us "free Notre Dame and St. Mary's of their "ethnic-Catha· · 
love" and the liberation of our 

women. A. sincere and thor­lie background?" This leads. to bodies, but Women's Lib has ough apology by you is in order, the only valid point in your shown us that sexual liberation however none ofyour initiatives . essay--namely that the male does not mean a carnal opencould ever close those wounds. inability to distinguish between house. They want equality of Ty{>ically, you make no having sex and making love employment and of rights, but 
mention to the fact that the instills insecurity in the women these have nothing to do with fault of our stagnant sexual here. Do you blame them? If attitudes of equality in the lifestyle lies not with the you are just out for sex, then bedroom or the backseat. women, but rather with the you can pay for that downtown. Sexual inequality should not men! What did ND men do Females want more committ· 
be confused with sensual ine­

before the Great Co-ed Refor­ment and feeling in a relation­quality. Women's Lib has mations? Today, with women ship than simply an evening's given females control over one here outnumbered from 3: 1 to workout of ''wham-bam-thank very important thing--their own 4:1, why is it up to women to you ma'am.'' Love leads tO body. They realize that they''put out'' in order that NO. men making love a lot more than have much more to lose through may sleep satisfied? The prob­do8 making love lead to love. sex (with or without love) than lems would still exist even if the Thank you for setting us do men, and until you can ratios were I : 1, or even 1: 3 or straight in your point #2 about personally experience the "joys
1:4. The men must change the possible malicious intent of of motherhood" I suggest that their attitudes. the dreaded virginity. There is 
you take the woman's feelingsWomen here are not just nothing wrong with being a and consequences of action into pieces of meat to be ravished. virgin -only admitting to it. consideranon before you sow They are already liberated You used to be (or possibly still ygm wjld pqt§ Neilt O'Bn'en 


~:k·r,~~~~i~=·l~~ to ~~~~~~!~u,~fde~ru,~~e?J?~~ili 
'"full liberntffig 

written to Latin .~ericans by llberatt_on and to the bulldmg of bishops ''is designed primarily reaction of state authorities in power. 
members of a Christ~an con~nmn­ity in Canada. It IS repnnted, with permis_sion, from the Oct. · Nov., 1978 1ssue of Lucha. 
As members of Christian communities in Canada, we cannot remain silent while our sisters and brothers in Latin American endure a dark night of oppression, hunger and exile. At the same time, the indomitable spirit of the people of ~tin Amenca calls us to g1ve votce to_ our hopc;s on the. eve of the I..attn Amencan Ep1scopal Conference in Puebla. 
You, our Neighbors, have cried out to us. In personal letters, articles in. Latin J\meri­can newspa~ers, 1n the wttness of ref1;1gees 10 our cou~try and e_spectally through valiant ac-non you have told us of syste­matic malnourishment of chil­dren; of the nightmare of unemployent affecting 15 per­cent to 60 percent of the national work force; of the denial of basic civil ri~hts in 90 percent of the cont10ent, of arbitrary imprisonment and tor rure; and the systematic denial of the people's rights to be masters of their own destiny This institutionalized violence has grown more severe than when first condemned by your Latin American bishops at Me­dellin and subsequently in pro­nouncements of National Epis­co al Conferences. 
ln the ten years since Me-dell in, many people, committed with the margmalized and the Ku:~gdo~, have suffered torture, tmpnsonment and even death. Ho~ever, their cour­ageous acttons have also brought to _many t~e. hope that the. degrad~ng c<;mdlttons under wh1ch you live wlll change. It is urgen~ that Pue~la reaff1rm th_is co~mttment wtth. the ~oor m t~e1r struggle for hberatton and g1v~ f1;1rthe~ encouragement to Chnsttans 10 the day to day challenges of the Gospel. .. We h3;ve been. told of the 
uncertaiOty, .~au~, sadness, hu':lger, h_umtliauon, p_er~e­cutton and 10sults. to the d1gntty of the hu~an ~e10g': that yo~ are suffenng m ~ttn Amen-c~. _We. recogmze _that our sttuatton m Canada 1s not as grave. Nevertheless we want yeu · to k~ow. that we see a commonality m our struggles f?r . justice . b~cause we are vtctt~s ?f stmllar structures of dommatton 3;nd dependence.. 
As Canadtans vye recogm~e that some corp_oratto~s based. m Canada exploit Lattn Amenca and deny_ you control.ov_er your ?"Yn dest.IOy. As _Chns~ta':ls. we J?In you 10 opposm~ th1s IOJUS· ~tee. At the same ttme Canada ts dependent on the same centre of economic power as is most of Lati~ America. Our struggle. to hberate ou~selves from. thts. dependence 1s o~e way 10 whtch we can struggle m solidarity with_ you. . 
We. Canadtans and LatiO Amencans face a world food system that 10 the words of our to make profits, not feed people.'' In Latin America this food system has meant that millions of campesinos has been forced off their land. It has meant growing hunger and malnutrition and high rates of infant mortality. 
We strongly support the efforts of campesino organiza­tions throughout Latin America to achieve a just land reform, and we salute the courageous ex:u_nple of t~os'? who have dedicated thetr lives to these strusgles. We have been horrified to learn that cam­pesinos and their priests have been massacred in El Salva~or an~ G_uatemala f<?r assert10g the1r nghts to the1r land. . . 
Nat_tve p~ople th~oughout the Amencas 10 thelC struggles againt centuries of. colonialism have be~n an~ conttnu~ to be a prophettc vote~ . ag~10st the structures ?f _IOJUSttce. We ~now . that 10~1genous peoples 10 Lattn Amenca are threate';led by cu~tural and even phystcal genoctdc;. We. know that the Chu~ch 10 B~az~l has defended the nghts of IOdtgenous peop_les even at the cost of persecution by the state. We pray that thewho!~ church will stand ste~d­f~st 10 the defense of nattve nghts. . . 
The economic cnses of the last ten ye~rs has heishten~d popular resistance. T~ts rests­tance has been met wtth state repression. We are most Latin America against efforts by ~eople to organize to defend thelC rights and to overcome injustice. We have been horri fied by accounts and personal testimonies concerning police state measures, arbitrary arrests, detentions, torture, forced exile and assassinations of countless people in the name of national security. 
We know that in Latin Amer­ica the beneficiaries of police repression are the rivele ed sectors of society ~bile ~he victims are eo le~· or aniza­tions stru lin p for ·u~tice Similarl fng c!nada lfarme~s' organiz!tions, trade ~nions and church coalitions are amon the groups being watched byg the security olice. 
. P 

Fro~ many sources we are becommg more; and more aw~e of the extr~mtty of_ your pam and . suffenng. Lik~ Msgr. Leomdas Proana, Btsho'h of Ecuado~ • we too stron~.ly. ope that thts Conference W!ll be a step forw3;fd, an expresston of clodser fidelity to the Word of Go • and to th~ cry _and strugfel~. of the LatiO A~encan Phop e. ~'?ffiare heariOg that t ere. are 1 erences among you ~tth regard to the approach to. this Conference! that there wtll b~ a confront~t~on b~tween
10

two dtfferent posmons the ~hurch. We hope and_ pray ~hat10 tht; proc~ss of dehberatto':ls a':ld dtscus.slons, _the Gospel_":'dl tnumph With all1ts authenticity 
We hope that the delegates at the forthcoming Conference of Puebla will reaffirm the commitments taken by Chris­tians in their struggles for liberation within the critical reality which exists in Latin America oday. It is our hope that the Canadian bishops attending the Conference will have the wisdom to understand the rea~ity an;d strug~le of he people 10 l..at10 Amenca. W.e also _hope that o_ut of thts exp'?n~nce. they wlll bnng to Chnsttans 10 Canada a greater awareness of how Canada is implicated in the injustices suffered by Latin American~, an~ th_e way we can _work 10 sollda~tty t~ cha~ge th1s. 
We tdenttfy With and supp~>ttthe commttment of Chnsttan communities in Latin America struggling for the liberation of all our peoples. It is our intention also to continue to study and follow up the 
developments now taking place all over the world in connection with this meeting. We wish to encourage you in your efforts to make the Conference a continuation of CELAM II, a sign of a conversion to the Lord and to the oor 
P · 
We are conv10ced that Chris­tians engaged in the struggle and guided by the spirit of Medellin, have given more testimony to the Gospel than all the words that have been or will be written. 

P. 0. Box Q 
Another View of Sexual Equality 
Dear Editor: 
Mter reading Brian Hogan's article on sex and equality many times in order to be sure that he was serious in his statements, I feel it is necessary to clear up a few of the many mistaken assumptions and beliefs that stimulated Mr. Hogan to write it. I am directing this letter to him alone in the belief that his views among Notre Dame men. 
First of all, Mr. Hogan is correct when he states that sexual freedom is one aspect of full equality for women. What he obviously fails to understand, however, is that sexual freedom, for both men and women, means freedom of choice as to what one's sex life will be. This freedom should, ideally, free men and women from the stereo­typed sexual rolcrs that have predominated in the past and that have precluded the possibi­lity of mutual equality in male­female relationships. More importantly, this freedom includes the freedom to d~cide not to have sex within a love or dating relationship. Unfortu­nately, the fact that many Notre Dame women have interpreted and chosen to use their sexual freedom in this way is miscon­strued by Mr. Hogan as a holdover from Victorian morality. He has missed the entire process women have undergone and con­tinues to believe that by discard­ing her virginity, a woman can gam the respect of men as a mature equal. 
In addition, Mr. Hogan deplores the inability of some Notre Dame men to distinguish between love and sex--yet he himself is guilty of this very inability. This is most painfully evident when he points to the bedroom as the location of the "most im~rtant male-female interaction. ' Sex may be the most intimate male-female inter­action, but toassess its being the most important would lead me to believe that, in such a case, total interaction is definitely lacking substance. His misconception is again s..-en when we read another of his profundities which claims that "love without sex is defi­nitely the most boring.'' If Mr. Hogan truly believes this, I can only pity the fact that he does not understand how affection and 
love can be deeply cherished although sex is not a part of the 
relationshi~. 
The ulttmatum that Mr. Hogan finally presents to women is this: either take up an active sex life (which is synonomous for him with 'act like you're equal') or else never be taken seriously be anyone. It is precisely this attitude towards sex, this misin­terpretation of sexual freedom, that has frustrated and hampered understanding between men and women on the subject. 
When he tells women to realize that there are many dimensions to sex beyond that found in marriage, I feel compelled to remind him that he has a few things to realize as well. Brian Hogan obviously would deter­mine the optimum amount of sex for himself and others by consi­dering the trade-off between the 'fun' of sex and the danger of lowering his GPA that hyperacti­vity in sex would lead to. If this is the only dimension he can see in sex, I think we can well under­stand the many "Long, cold South Bend nights" Brian Hogan has endured. All I ask, Mr. Hogan, is that you don't blame those nights on the various moral inhibitions of Notre Dame women; you have only your own ignorance of the concepts of sex, love, and equality to blame. 
CathyPiha 

Sexuality and Marriage 
Dear Editor: 
The article entitled "Sex and Equality'' has compelled me to present a perspective concerning human sexuality which was over­looked. Religious and doctrinal teachings should not be ignored. However, the quality of the article leads me to believe that there is another ground on which the author will be more likely reached, namely, the element of trust. 
Trust, as it pertains to love, can be succinctly defined as loyalty or commitment to another. For two to feel comfortable sharing any­thing of value, an element of trust must exist which is at ~east proportional to that which is being shared. It follows from this that since sex derives its great value from its being a profound expression of love, trust is an essential ingredient. Further­more, it should be the concern of the individuals that such a trust 
be  cultivated  prior doing  any­ 
thing  which  assumes  its  pre­ 
sence.  

Marriage, if it is to be taken at all seriously, assumes that those involved will remain loyal to their spouse throughout life. In a society such as ours where un­faithfulness to the bonds of marriage is becoming increas­ingly accepted, if not encour­aged, a deep trust based on the actions of the individuals prior to marriage is of great importance. Having discussed this with two clinical psychologists and three marriaEe counselors, though I am myself unmarried, I found It to be a point of consensus that in many cases there exists a link between non-commital extramarital sex and the pangs of mistrust and uncertainly which may enter into a relationship over a period of time. The pronounced rise in the number of divorces, an increas­ing number of which are being filed on the grounds of suspected or proven infidelities, supports this association. 
When the romance of a mar­riage dies out and the faults of 'the partners become more ap­parent, as is indeed the case at one time or another, the question "If he (or she) was willing to engage in sex outside of marnage before, what is going to keep htm (or her) from doing so now?" must be answered. 
BenRuf 

either -institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD 
reported as accurately and ·as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............ Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray O'Bntn Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chns Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb wnghenry Photo Editor . . . . . . . . . . Doug Chnstian The Observer is an independent newspa.· letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mills per publisht>d by students of the Column space is available to all mem· Copy Edito~ . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil CacJd.el Production Manager ... _ . . Mardi Ner'tn University of Notre Dame and Saint bc:-rs of the community, and the free Samt Mary s EdttoF . . . . . . FJien Buddy Business Manager ......... john Tucker 
Mary's College. It does nor nt"cessarily expression of varying opinions on cam· News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ &b Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. Nt>ws Editor ............. Mzke Lewis 
_The Observer_ of 
-~----~--~-­

.r----------~------­
r 



Features 
FFQy, January 26, 1979 -f 't,e 8 


Lettets.to a Lonely God 
A beginning to the end 
This colwnn is really a Com­mencement speech addressed to the Seniors. Probably it should wait until May, to take its place among the other addresses of the Conunencement. Seniors, however, have VIPs talking to them at their graduation; my simple words would get lost among the official rhetoric. The words imponant to me, or I wouldn't bother to wme them. I hope you can believe them, because they could be of help. 
I feel very close to a lot of Seniors. For the past ftve years, I have spent a great deal of time trying to be in touch with the Seniors off-campus. I have been anxious to talk to you and visit Your houses; I want you· to be guests at my table whenever I can affontto play host. I write letters invitin~ you, or asking you to invite me, for a visit. In the past three 
years, I have written to nearly every
off-campus Senior; by Mar, I hope to 
have written letters to al of you again this year. By now, I know how well, how efficiently, how pleasurably, how thrift­ily, how fraternally, the off-campus Seniors live. I mention all this so that 
you will understand that you Seniors are people I care about. Now you are beginning your fmal semester, possibly for some of you the 
best semester of your years at Notre Dame. I hope you will enjoy the rituals ofacceptance or rejection at professional 
school; the job interviews; the chalets and cottages at Lake Michigan; the evenings spent nursirig a dry throat at the Senior Bar; the prom at the hotel in Chicago; the thousand dates, the million beers; and the concluding celebrations in Senior week, when the ftnal exam has been written, and the fmal footnote has been researched. 
Before you move home to Penh Amboy or Lansing, may I suggest that, as a way of divorcing yourselves from deceptions, you burn all your T-shirts that say God made Notre Dame Number One? The phrase is silly, offensive, and dangerous; and it is not true; most of the time, not even in spons. Even when it's true that "We're Number One", it doesn' r mean that ''l'in Number One." As you must know by· now, graduation means separating /ourself from the general_ excellence o the U~versity and depending on your own particular excel­lence, no matter how limited you feel it to be. Graduation can leave you feeling a long way off from the football ftelds of Dallas, where other chaps were out there making the touchdowns that earned us a communal glory. It may take you years, or a lifetime, before you make it to the Number One spot on your own. · Somewhere along the way, you may decide that being Number One simply isn't wonh the struggle. An ancient wisdom teaches us that success does not lie in gaining the whole world if the 

I, too, get the sad letters, the lonely letters: fdled with the depression new grads can have, feelin~ let down· by .the-, place they describe as 'the real world.'' On campus, as in Camelot, it seems, the ring of fellowship has been broken, ~d only briefly reassembled on cenam golden October days, when good friends and young lovelies return to the Dome for the football rituals. In a few lives, the sadness of the ftrst months following graduation amounts almost to a crisis; the phone calls come at midnight asking for help through the temporary tragedies as young men and women search for therr inner resources in the all-alone feeling of a pardise lost. 
Don't be surprised, after graduation, if a letdown comes in your own life, as part of your personal experience. ~ou are leavmg a wondrous place, separaung from a marvelous company of friends. Now, Notre Dame is wherever you are, wherever your friends are. It is not easy, at first, to be the center of your own world as a Domer, away from the green acres and the lakes, distant from the chums who drank with you in the bars and prayed with you at the Grotto. 
l.onelinesss is one of the earliest ways by which we learn that we are vulner­able, along with the rest of our generation, before we ever face sickness or experience death; it can only be redeemed by loving, and being loved; by caring, and being cared for; by having a friend, and being a friend. At Notre Dame, I think, you have learned the dynamics offriendship. Ifyou never had friends, there couldn't be a crisis at Conunencement-time, and no special loneliness at the breakup of the fellow­
==============================================~
Dave 
Gill 

H b • s 
~

ow tg are uou uperman ~ 
J ' . • 

PBS Channel 34 
"Steps";January 26, 7:30pm. This ne:w series offering alternative approaches tn solving the .problems of parenting will be 20 half-hour episodes with celebrity couples narrating the series. This week, Laura and Hunter Riley learn about prenatal preparation. ''Explonng the Restless Sea''; January 27, 8:30 pm. The life of a coral reef is examined, as are the different kinds of corals and sea life that evolve around them. 
"Hong Kong: A Family Portrait"; 
January 28, 8 pm. Bargain basement of the world and refugee center for more than four million Chinese, Hong Kong is considered the financial center ofthe Far East. The Chinese lifestyle is experi­enced with the Leong family and their emphasis on the family's values. "Treasures ofTutankhamun "; January 29, 9 pm. An exhibition of the many treasures brought over from King Tut' s tomb. The objects are coupled with music, literature, technology and paint­ings of ancient Egypt. Probably wonh­while for those wlio missed "the Boy King" on his nation-wide totJ.C. 
"Palestine; Part lll: Abdication"; 
January 30, 10 pm. The _political maneuvering and guerilla ftghtmg that led to Israel's declaration of indepen­dence in 1948 are featured with the use of arch:...... t footage. 
whole world robs us of the our souls. Being Number One isn't imponant, even for a football team. What is imponant is that you be decent men and women, and that you be happy and at peace with yourself Happiness, for you, doesn't mean that you have to be the coach and players on a team that wins all the games. Happiness can mean watching the game from the bleachers it can mean sitting home, watching the game on television. It can mean never seei::tg the game at all, because you can't even afford a television~ 1t can mean knowing 


that life is not the least like a game, but Ln~~-1---..!::::::=:~~;L_-.z.--~~~ 
merely a ramble on a road running from Jerusalem to Jericho, where wounded travellers need your kindnesses as a Good Samaritan. 
"I get letters from my classmates," a '77 alwnnus told me recently, "talking about the Senior year they had at Notre Dame. The letters are sad, because so many of my classmates sound as though they were convinced that the greatest time of their lives is already behind th·em.'' 
Movies on Campus 
Autobiography of Miss jane Pittman; January 25, 26. 6, 8:30, 11 pm. 
Engineering Auditorium. Cicely Tyson 
stars in the Emmy Award-winning 
history of an aged black woman, who 
overcame slavery, discrimination, and political pressure during her life of 110 years. No admission cliarge. On the Waterfront; January 25, 26. 6, ·8:30, 11 pm. Starring Marlon Brando. Brando portrays a longshoreman influ: enced by mob pressure. Directed by Elia Kazan. The Pawnbroker; January 28; 3, 6, 8:30 pm. January 29; 3:30, 8:30 pm. Engineering Auditorium. Starring Rod Stetger, Brock Peters. A Jewish pawnbroker finds only despair in Harlem after leaving Nazi Germany. Geraldine Fitzgerald saves Steiger from total pessimism at the end of the flick. Save the Tiger; January 28; 3, 6, 8:30 pm. Washingtonlial.l. January 29; 6, 11 pm. Engineering Auditorium. Starring 
Jack Lemmon. The proftt motive takes quite a bt;ating in this 1973 movie about the Amencan Dream. Saturday Night Fever; February 2, 3. 7, 9:15, 11:30 pm. Engineering Audito­rium. Starring Johri Travolta. The movie that pushed Travolta and the Bee Gees into a higher tax bracket comes to duLac. I have to admit, when I was it before the music played on every radio station across the country, I liked it. $1 admission. 
Movies Off Campus 
Citizen Kane; January 28, apm.... IUSB Little Theater. Starring Orson Welles. The IUSB Film Series, 1979: Great Flicks begins with Welles' masterpiece. The movte initiated techniques never attempted before in cinematography. The series will run through May with great ftlms, including Of Human Bon-. aage (February 10), Anna Karemna (March 2), and a Russian Film Festival in March. $1 admission. Superman; Town & Country I. Starring Christopher Reeve, Margot Kidder, Marlon Brando, Gene Hackman. I haven't seen the movie yet, but I've heard both that it's classic entenainment and that it's a bore. You pay your money, you take your chances. Caltfornia Suite; · Forum I. Starring Wafter Matthau, Jane Fonda, Alan Aida, Bill Cosby. This one has also gotten mixed revtews. Cenainly it won't become a classic, but it may be wonh a 
laugh or two. Every Which Way But Loose; Forum Ill. Starring Clint Eastwood. Being an Eastwood fan of many years, I'd hate to say that Clint made a bad movie, but I think he should stick to Harry Callahan or spaghetti westerns. Ice Castles; Forum II. Starring Robby 
Fr.Robert 
Griffin 
ship. 
In the years ahead, simply be your­selves in all the honorable ways that being yourselves requires. Notre Dame has always taught you that you are special, in yourself, by yourself. IfNotre Dame is special, it is because you are here. In the thousand and one times you have glimpsed beauty or heard a redeenung truth on this campus, it is because you have looked at yourself, and seen perceptively. You have seen yourself, as though in a mirror, when you thought · you were watching a stranger. 
A Notre Dame education gives you back the best parts of yourself, and says: ''Make use of your goodness.'' Seniors who can believe that are at the beginning, not at the end, of the richest years of their lives. 


Benson. I haven't heard a thing about it, but at least Benson didn't write the screenplay. The Wiz; Scottsdale. Starring Diana Ross, Michael Jackson. The ad reads: 
"The Wiz! the Stars! The Music! Wow!" Well, maybe. The music is good but I can't belleve a 24-year-old school teacher would go looking for another Oz. Moment bv Moment; River Park. Starring Lily Tomlin, John Travolta. I haven't seen it, but every critic I've read can't stand it. 

Spons 
Wrestling; ND vs Nebraska]anuary 26, 7:30pm. ACC. · Wrestlzng; ND vs John Carroll; January 27, 1 pm. ACC. Basketball [women]; ND vs SMC; Jan~ 27, 2 pm. Angela Athletic Facility. Basketball [men]; ND vs Brown; 
January 30, 8 pm. ACC. Hockey; ND vs. Bowling Green; January 31, 7:30 J:>m. ACC. Basketball [menJ; ND vs. Xavier; :february 1, 8 pm. ACC. 
Performance 
Marshall Tucker; January 27, 8 pm. ACC. Some good old boys decided to come to ND and it's about time. Excellent guitar work plus good har­monies. Firefall as a back-up insures a great concen since both groups perform very well on stage. Becky Stauffer~ Soprano; )at_tuary 311
8:15 pm. Library Auditonum ana Lounge. 
Lecture 
"Buildtng a Better Memory''; January 31, 7 pm. Washington Hall. Jerry Lucas, former pro basketball player, will lecture on how you, in your spare time, can memorize the New York City phone book. Dr. andMrs.]. C. Willke; February 2, 7 pm. Library Auditorium. Right to Life Lecture. 





-------------~-----------~----~---~-·---·~ 
Features 
Friday, January 26, 1979 -Page 

Stalking the Elusive Education 
Anthony Walton 

There was once a young boy all of his hopes 'for this elusive The first definition of edu­formulating his own. Know-and technology, and 
n elementary school who often 'education' to the collegiate cation is ''the bringing up or ~edge is gained from studying the arts and letters. of how nice it would be level, for he believed that there training, as of a child." This 16 intellectual superiors, but the 1and technology are out of there and start he would find 'it', that satis­what most of the young ma~ young man feels cheated in that society, but I submit that ng and learning things fying education. The young education has been. He has he is reined in and told what to in these fields can be he thought were important. man has been in college for been brought up through study. To the young man, after college. After the years
He quickly grew tired of the awhile now, and much to his twelve Jears of formal school­education is not simply the elementary and secondaryrepetitive exercises. He was chagrin, he ha~ found that he ing an is trained in several passing on of techniques, but grounding in the fundamentals ing, but the process was was wrong agam. different areas. He under­also the devel-the young and primed
uch too boring for him. After The 'it' that the young man stands and can use basic con­opment of the creative and should be allowed to roam he learned these basic skills, he has been searching for is cepts in mathematics, science, analytical abilities of the mind. fields of academe, not told wanted to move on to other theoretically what he has been history, and art. The funda­The mind should be compelled choose a field of study that things. receiving all along, an educa­mental communicative skills to think and feel, to analyze and lead to a fiscally
He had ideas that he wanted tion. For some reason, how­are there. In the "bringing up philosophize. Through stan-living. to talk about. This yearning for ever, he feels that he has not and training" sense of the dard education, and mind is To be continued next week. a different sort of path to been educated. Why? definition, he has been edu­developed, but it is in effect just r--~~-----=-~--1 education stayed with the Education, as defined by cated, and educated quite well. expanding on concepts already Features . young boy as he grew into a Webster's New Collegiate Dic­This leads to the second 
learned. What of possible new Pontt•flt·cates·.III 

ng man and progressed tionary-Eighth Edition, has definition of education, which is concepts to be thought of? the levels of education three. meanings that are perti­the ''development of one or all The third definition of educa-The Features Editor r ..,.r...t+nl 
to him. At each nent to his search: 1. The of a person's powers of mind tion is' 'instruction as it is ~iven informs the multitudes ht subsequent level he was dis­bringing up or training, as of a and body. '' This definition is in schools and universities.'' new weekly column, Heroes satisfied with what he found child 2. The develorment of one very close to the elusive 'it' that The young man feels that the Anonymous, will appear nex and would consequently dream or all of a person'S powers of the young man is searching for. course of education in the week. Initially scheduled about the possibility that the mind and body. 3. Instruction Now that he knows concepts of United States has veered away begin today, the delay is next level would satisfy him. At as given at schools and univer­several different fields,. he from enlightenment and turned result of extreme time · · · 
penultimate letdown came sities. These three definitions would like some help m learn­toward the production of mar-on the Editor. Our first hero in high school, as he found it to are interlocked in a way, but ing how to use them. Not only ketable skills. The emphasis in John Santos, ND Senior who much the same as his previous also stand apart from each learning the thoughts of accep­education seems to be more and the recent recipient of a Rhodes schooling. He then transferred other. ted great thinkers, but also more oriented toward business Scholarship. 
Bill McGurn 
Why the Urban Plunge 
In last Fall's Observer there appeared man hostile to their goals. How much 
an article of mine about my year abroad more could we accomplish if we had 
on the St. Mary's program m Maynooth. these people on our side. As I'm sure 
In it, I tried to describe the town, the Fr. Hesburgh would agree, it is impor­
country and the life which I came to tant to have the right people in the key 
know and appreciate, with the intention areas. There is only so much a social 
of sharing this found beauty with the worker can do alone. 
student Dody, and also to bring back Towards this end of using our influence 
some of the memories to my fellow in the most productive way possible, we 
participants. This was my simple and must become a sort of lay Jesuit. An 
straightforward intention. . attitude of positivism shoufd dominate 
Upon my return to Notre Dame thts· the life of the individual. Did you ever 
semester, a Sociology student told me notice that revolutionaries never smile. 
that my article was hanging up on the Never. They are dedicated--no one can 
Sociology bulletin board at St. Mary's, deny that--but they have no sense of 
with several lines of supposed social humor. Even Lenin, the savior of 
importance, underlined. As I have had Communism, recognized this major pro­
only Sociology course in my life I was blem: "Curse the Bolsheviks," he once 
surprised, and skeptical, to say the least. said, ''for they bring a dryness and a 
There seemed to be nothing profound or hardness to lite." And just look at the 
significant in the story, and I had always Cambodians, look at what cheerful lot 
suspected that Max Weber had the they are. 
monopoly on all social awareness. . 
One therefore cannot go through lifeBut thereto lies the moral. Part of this being only against something, be it was my misunderstanding of the true injustice, prejudice or hate; one mustsocial gospel: Our social concern is operate from one's higher _value~ insomethmg to be lived, notJ'ust learned; it justice, brotherhood and love, tf one IS toshould not be confine to a little be effective. Nobody likes a hardass,department. And what's more, our task and too many of us are only able to fight, is not only to live a· good life, rather it is to tear things down, without offering to spread that goodness out as far as we anything better to stand in its place. 
can. This means that besides our Sure we must get angry, but we must individul actions, we must also use our use our anger, and not let it use us, and influence to benefit our less privileged ultimately ruin us. Positivism must be 
brethren. the master, with anger one of its slaves. A great step towards this end is the I suppose what I am advocating is more Urban Plunge. It may seem absurd1 and of a shotgun approach to the Plunge. a bit inflated, for someone to attnbute Instead of being seen as an end in it"-:lf, the adjective "great" to a 48 hour an attempt to gtve the a?swers to rul of experience, but Jt is upon sue~ absur­the problems, It should "be seen as the 
dittes that changes occur. The mherent begmning of the questions. Perhap!"weakness of the Plunge is that it doesn't 
many who have taken the plunge will be 
attract even a fraction of the people who motivated towards direct soctal work,would benefit the most. What it needs is a noble goal. But it is just as important mor~ pa_n-icipation .by the ~usiness 1 to reach the others. The plunge would Engmeenng and Sctence maJors, an~ still be a great success ifit only ended up 
especially by those at the top of thetr making all its participants a bit more classes. There are the people who will open-minded and compassionate. 
be, for the most part, in control of the Admittedly, this type of result would be power in the years to come; they must be very hard to trace; mdeed, it ~ght becut so hard by the experience that it will impossible to trace. But accordmg_ to aleave a lifetime scar that they can never law of phsyics, every force has its. effect. 
forget. 
And maybe ten years from no":, 10 someThe Jesuits, who had a little bit to do board room of a huge corporation, therewith change themselves, used to ~ay t~t will be pressure to pull its money out of a one Bishop is worth a hundred pnests; tn poor netghborhood, or to sell bad milk to the same way we must work '?n the .top, 
African babies. And maybe some Notrewhile we can, so they do the nght thmgs Dame graduate will insist to the board,in the future. How many social workers "We can't screw these people. It'sget discouraged because they know what 
wrong. " 

has to be done, but either they don't Angjust maybe he'll be the corporation have the necessary .~<?ney or po~er to prestdent.
influence some pohttctan or busmess-

Chris Stewart,Features Editor 
Stnoky]oe Plays The Nazz 
Tonite Notre Dame music afficionados popular music, save disco and hard rock. have the opportunity to hear local talent Thts is quickly manifest on Question, Greg Novak, aka "Smoky Joe," perform which flows smoothly and delicately like live at the Nazz. The show begins at a ballerina pirouetting at Lincoln Center. 
10:30 p.m., and Smoky Joe will be He opens with "Imogene," a mellow performing until the surprises he has ballad that has its roots in a spiritual personally promised me (a guest appear­experience in Smoky's past. The end ance by Bob Dylan is a very remote line of the song--" ... follow Imogene, possibility) run out. fo!low Imogen~ ... " -:reson~tes the Al­
mtghty beckorung his vacillating pro­
phet to be)ieve, and follow. 
"Broken Dreams" is the album's best 
son~. With its upbeat tempo, it is 
remtniscent of early Jonathan Edwards 
("Sunshine") or even Jimmie Spheeris. 
The Spheeris influence is more ~~''"'""'"· 1 in his songs "1990" and" aiter Sunshine." Spheeris' haunting lyrics and lilting ballads have a lot in common with the music of"SmokyJoe," which is why I strongly recommend either for those whose popular musical proclivities extend beyond Jackson Browne and Fleetwood Mac. 
A graduate of St. Joseph's High and Indiana University (BA-1973, English), Smoky Joe was signed by M-Records for Captive M~sic of Nashville. His style is just right for people desiring a nice, enjoyable evening of popular music. He satd, in a phone interview, that he intends to play some unreleased material for the first time in public. If you're into a mellow sound, "Smoky Joe" is right for you. 
There will not be any admission price, soguys-bring that girl you've been dying to date out but haven't gotten up the courage to ask. And ladies,· drag him 

._______.;....... ....,.,....., _ _.....__. away from his books for a couple ofhours of fine musical entertainment. You
·smokey Joe" is a South Bend native. He has performed at the Nazz on several won't regret it. 
occasions in the past, in addition to other ,.----------------,
universities in the Michiana area. Last 
December, he was interviewed by 
WSND's Rick "Night Train" Lane, 
during Nocturn Night Flight. During the 
interview, he sang a number of songs off 
his latest album, A Question of Love. 
Overall, Smoky was very well received. 
A Question of Love was released in 
June, 1978. Two singles from the LP, 
''The Star Song'' and ''Broken Dreams'' . 
have been released in 45 cities through­
out America. (The album should be 
available at the Hammes Bookstore, 
hopefully not at their normally notorious 
pnces.) . . 
Versatility i!" Smokey's mam attnbute. 
He has performed, over the past 15 
years, virtually every type of modem 
~~i ___ 



The Observer Friday, January 26, 1979 -Page 10 
After 21 years, hall maid announces 
•

rettrement 
Molarity 


by Mary_ Ann Wissel Stajj Reporter 
''We were always sure of two things at Notre Dame -one, that we would never discon­tinue making beds, and two, that Notre Dame would never admit women. Well, those are the two changes that occurred,'' Catherine Palatin, head maid in Flanner Hall, said. 
·Palatin, 62 years old, has worked at Notre Dame for over 21 years as a maid in several dorms. She has decided to 
retire the first of February. 
Palatin began working here in 
September, 1957 when she decided that she needed to be doing something with her spare 
time. "I never had worked before and I had no training for a technical job so I applied here because I needed the money," Palatin stated. 
Palatin began her work in Alumni and Fisher Halls. "I worked a half day in each hall and during the summer I travel -ed from dorm to dorm depend­ing on what they needed," Palatin explained. 
''Boys were different then-­


. oble.~ 
om~ 
Pizza 
and other 
Good Things 

11£ E.iiER'MHERE., 
WE5N' T (}A)OfR. STAIJD WAA/f A 5TEAJ::'( 11117 GIRL 601rEN /.fa?. CLA .-----'I 
MID ~T LET 
r----=--=,-GO ' 
-· 


OH COME 0/VJ tf CAN'T SE 
A? BAD As~/ 
CORNER OF GRAPE ROAD & CLEVELAND ACROSS FROM THE NEW UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
Call ahead for faster service or directions 
277-5300 
.------------~---~----------------,
I $1~00 OFF· · $1.50 OFF
I , 
I 

I ON ANY LARGE ON ANY·SIZE 
I I DEEP DISH: . ­
I MA.STERPIZZA ·! 
I I SICILIAN PIZZA! 

IONE COUPON PER ORDER ONE COUPON PER ORDER 
--------·2/9/79·------L------2/9/79·------.J 
they showed more discipline. There was no drinking allowed anywhere and no women were allowed in the dorms. Lights were turned out at 10 p.m. and residents had to sign in with the rector at 8 each morning," Palatin noted. Palatin said that the boys she has worked with have always been nice. She said that she enjoyed them because she had sons at home and was used to having boys around. Palatin said that the boys she has worked with have always been nice. She said that she 
Michael Molinelli 


After Alumni and Fisher, Palatin worked at Farley Hall for several years "I had one boy in Farley who always thanked me for dusting his room--one day he asked me if I even dusted his rosary beads that were hanging on his bed post," Palatin remembered. 
Another student who was Student Body Vice-President, 
lived  in  Farley  at  the  time,  
Palatin worked  there.  "He  
used  to  create  such  a  scene  

when I was around--he would walk down the hall and scream for me to go and clean up his room," Palatin said. 
Palatin transferred to Flanner Hall nine years ago when the dorm was built. She is responsible for most of the first floor, all of the second floor, the penthouse and a room in the basement. 
"One boy on the second floor here even calls me "mom"--he kids me about it and asks me what is for dinner and if he can bring someone home," she stated. 
Several residents of Flanner Hall will miss Palatin when she leaves. ''She is like a best friend to us--she comes in and clowns around with us. She certainly brightens up the day for all of us,'' Leroy Leopold, a junior, said. 
· Greg Besio and Dante Vacca agreed that Palatin is consider­ate of all of them. "She always asks us if 'we' mind if she 
sweeps the room" Besio noted. Another resident, Paul Kala­maras, stated that Palatin is so efficient that she even waxes the elevator doors. 
Palatin will retire from her job on February 2. She said that she has plenty at home to keep her busy. "I will miss being in Flanner, though, es­pecially visiting with the boys and the priests. The day goes much faster when you can talk with nice people during the day," she said. 
22. Dodee 
23. B~lief 
c
24. Wedding member 
R
~5. Played {withl · 
27. A<lapt 
0
30. Cleaner's spto­
cial se•vict•: 
hrph. wd. ... s. 
31. Tall sto•·~· 
33. \\'ash 
s
34. Beat, as 
.cream 
w
36. Dislo~·al 
:r;. ~lodeling 
materials 
0 :.m. Ginger cooky 40. De55el1 
R 
41. Print flu1d 4:!. E,·.,~r~· ont· 
D 
43. Pur down (on l ~ l. B•fore 
s
4i. Frenth pro­noun 

31. 
For what reasou'? 

32. 
The ego ron­trois this 

33. 
Not no"· 

34. 
Cry of de­


light 3i\. Slandered 
37. 
Strike a-, evoke an emo­tiona! response 

38. 
Assett 

39. 
Error ~0. Heaptod 


42. Eatl'n daily this keeps a·· war the dor­tor:!! wds. 
45. 
Office-holders 

46. 
Alleviate 


48. 
Musical apti· tude 

49. 
Piece (out) 



Yeste.rday's answers 
I 
ACROSS 
1. Suk hand­outs 
~. In-,pub­li•hed 
9. Churrh benrh 
12. 
Expert 'J 

13. 
Estl'em I~-"'\\'herl'ver 


she goe•. -": "2wds. 
15. Dilapidated: 2 wds. 
17. Yisualld(!oa 1~. Youngsters ~0. ~lade )"arn 
21. Get done: 
2wds. :!3. Expel: 2 wds. :!ti. Certnin 
pa·aye1·s ·27. Debate 
28. Thus :.!~). thum 
30. "'$hut-eye" 
DO. Short, sharp barks 
51. c..real grain 
DOWN 
I. Exclude 
2. 
Small shield 

3. 
Well-bred and polite 

4. 
Snapshot 

5. 
Tiers 

6. 
Tavern 


i. Xot any 
1!. Catrhes in a lie or eri'Or: 2 wds. 
9. 
Grand or up­right 

10. 
Ovum 

11. 
Trouble 


16. Specks 
18. Silent :W. Wiser :!1. Tast~ 
Friday, January 26, 1979 ­
• • • Wrestlers 


[continued from page 12] tinued. The Irish currently sport an year we beat them here at the ''Pittsburgh is comparable to 8-~ dual meet mark, identical to National Catholics, only to be Ohio State in talent. Assuming last year's final ledger. Notre upset less than a week later on we do well against Pittsburgh Dame was a 39-3 victim of a their mats." and Ohio State, as well as in the strong Indiana State team on 
The Blue Streaks, who own a previous two matches, then I'd Wednesday night, as George 7-~ overall mark against the say we're fairly well prepared Gedney's 7-2 decision at 126 Irish, have six regulars return­for our upcoming tourna­amounted to Notre Dame's only in.~ from last year. Yet for all ments.'' team points. 
•ix, last year was their first I I F
c • • 

eason of collegiate wrestling. 
The Irish then journey to • Kn·•ghts of Columbus • 
~olumbus, Ohio for a 

Sunday afternoon triangular uwh t' ft II I side The fourth place lnsh icers hope to ju11Jp up in the WCHA when meet with Pittsburgh and Big fl a 8 1\.ea !j n they travel to Michigan thts weekend. The Fnday and Saturday ten hopeful Ohio State. Both th t 8 lldl S th Q d" games can be heard on WNDU radio at 7:30 [photo by john Macor} are first time foes for the Irish. a U ng On OU Ua 
"Ohio State hasn't finished 
fi.._.D OUT I

that well in the Big Ten in I~ 
recent years, but that tradition
... Track 
may be changing. They've watch the maruland Game
already won the Rochester Invi-fl ~ [continued from page 12] lot of diSt-ance and middle rational tourney a,nd have been Sat Jan 27th Colot TV 
elude co-captains Dennis distance talent," Piane noted. Vander Kraats, distance run­year.''
"John Anich is a two-time improving in every match this 1--------------------------.. 
ner, and Perry Stowe, pole NCAA qualifier in the half-mile, ''Ohio is a good wrestHng
vaulter. Sophomore Chuck Kevin Ryari has run a mile in state, and they have a lot ot 
Aragon, who runs the 600 for under four minutes and Steve Buckeye talent on the team. 
Knights of Columbus 

the Irish, con:tpe~~d with the Housely has a 4:04 mile this The match will be .an .. excellent 
U.S. Junior Olympic ~earn over year. In the 600, Ivor preparation for us, particularly 
the summer. Semor Jay Emmanuel is one of their solid with the National Catholics Induction Ceremonies 
Miranda is the school record runners. Also, SIU brings in coming up the following week­
holder in the 800. some good sprinters." end." This weekend the Irish will For all of you who might be "Pittsburgh is comparable to This Sunday Jan 28th 
compete in one of their thn;e interested by now, the meet is Ohio State in talent. If we do 
triangular meets at home this scheduled to begin at 6:30 at fairly well against those two 2:00PM 
season, as they face Bowling the ACC, with the qualifying talented teams, then I think 
Green and SIU-Edwardsville. rounds, with the finals slated we've progressed very well so r• "Bowlin~ lireen brings in a for 7 PM. far this season," Sepeta con-I & I 

.. 
--. 
Friday, January 26, 1979 -Page 12
Snorts 

Homecoming for Jackson 
Irish travel to Maryland 
by Mark Perry overall record, and a 3-2 ACC for 
the season progresses.
Assistant Sports Editor the Terps. Driesell must be The only senior to crack the swooning because with the talent starting five is Larry Gibson. The he has, he must have expected a 6-9 forward is third on the club in When the top-ranked Notre better showing. ­scoring at 15.3 points, and pro­Dame basketball team takes the Leading the way for Maryland vides some experience to help out court in College Park, Maryiand, this season has been sophomore MP.Tland' s rookie center, Buckthis Saturday, they will be facing Ernest Graham, a 6-7 guard who ~ilhams. Williams has pretty
a Maryland team dizzy from a has averaged 19.1 points a game Impressive stars in his ftrstro1ler coaster ride so far this this year, and scored 44 points in season, averaging 9.2 points per 
season. the first big win over North 
game, and leading the club isCoach Lefty Driesell and his Carolina State. 
rebounding at 10.1 per game. 
men have had their share of ups Teaming up with Graham in the In addition to trying to put their and downs this year. First they backcourt will be Greg Manning season on the upswing again, the lost to Georgetown and Nevada­a )-11 snphomore who has Terps will try to avenge last Las Vegas. then they took two quarterbacked the club for the season's defeat at the ACC,straight from North Carolina past two years, and h.1s averaged 69-54, in the famous "blizzard of State, 124-110 at home in the 11.2 points per game this year. '78" game.
highest scoring Maryland game Leading the scorers in the front But Tracy Jackson, who has 
ever, and then by one point in court is Albert King, who con­been outstanding this season asdouble overtime at Raleigh. tinues to improve after a less­Notre .Dame's sixth man, isThen they lost to Louisville, beat than-spectacular freshmen year; hoping that Maryland won't ruin Clemson, and last week lost to based on what was expected of 
his homecoming. 

number-two North Carolina, him. The 6-6 sophomore has Jackson, who hails from Silver 
54-53. averaged 15.9 points per game, Spring, Maryland, was MostThis all adds up to a 13-5 and those figures should go up as 
Valuable Player in last year's game, scoring nine points in the second half to lead an Irish outburst. Jackson wi11 be trying to help the Irish make it two in a
ND track team faces SIU, 
row in front of his hometown crowd.
Bowling Green at ACC 
The game is being televised nationally on NBC, and is sched­by Mark Perry Piane said, "and I'm very 
uled to begin at 3:30PM.
Assistant Sports Editor anxious to see how our fresh­men distance runners do.'' 
Track is one sport at Notre The list of freshmen is long Dame that does not get much and imP-ressive. Chris Lattig, attention. People would pro­who halls from Oregon, one of bably rather go to a party on the best track states in the Friday night than go to the ACC country, was state champion to watch a track meet. in the mile and also in cross 
Keeping. things in perspective 
But according to Irish Head country, and was a high school Coach ] oe Piane , this year's All-American in the steeple­team just mtght be worth chase. Tony Hatherly, who 
watching. with Hartig lettered for the It seems that lately there's been more ''I am very positive about this Notre Dame cross country team discussion of the basketball team, coach and
.. 
year's team," Piane said. "We in the fall, has a 4:06 mile to his fans off the court than of Notre Dame's 
should be much better than last credit. performance on the court. That is even more Rayyear, because our team is vastly Top freshmen sprinters in­Intriguing in view of the fact that the Irish are 12 
1mproved.'' clude Jim Christian, Jaques -1 and have convinced the majority of the Piane can point to many Eady, Bill Riders, Rick Rogers, 
basketball world that they are the best collegiate O'Brien reasons for his optimism. John McCloughan, and ] ohn team in the United States. 
Returning letter winners pro­Meyer. Pole vaulter Mike The last thing the ND cagers need now are vide a solid nucleus for the Noland, who vaulted 14 feet, 6 distractions. It is tough enough preparing for Tom Penders likened Phelps to a maestro when 
he rommented "Digger really orchestrates these team. But Piane · is most inches in high school, adds games because you are Notre Dame, but when fans beautifully. If I did that in front of my fans optimistic about this year's new some more punch to the field you are number one. in the country and you wear they'd throw tomatoes at me.''

runners. events. ~ gtee!l and gold umform, the pressure 1s doubly Critics of the Irish coach liken him to the ring"We have a lot of fine Top returning lettermen in­tmposmg. 
leader of a three ring circus, supervising thefreshmen sprinters coming in,'' [continued on page 11) The distraction that threatens the team's cheerleaders, fans and players in the course ofsuccess centers around the performance of the an evening. Phelps' relationship with the

student supporters and the cheerleaders that cheerleaders is less than healthy and has beenorganize thts spirit. Frank LaGrotta was heavily worsening over the years. It is my opinion that
Notre Dame wrestlers grapple 
criticized for his printed dissatisfaction in the the fans are also becoming unnerved. 
Observer of his fellow students' lack of Digger's complaint is that the student bodyenthusiasm for their representative team. 
has not been enthusiatic enough. While he has

with tough weekend schedule 
~t ~ow seems that while LaGrotta was stating his every right to his opinion, Digger's responsibil­by Bz/1 Marquard Big Eight. Their new coach is optruon , he may also have been serving as a While his showmanship and
sports Wrt'ter now making an effort to build a spokesman for Digger Phelps' dissatisfaction ity is on the court. quality program, and with the with the cheerleaders and the student body. dedication to the school is wholeheartedly ''This is most definitely the aid of 11 wrestling scholar­Phelps showed his dissatisfaction with the appreciated, he has no business bossing 
toughest weekend of the ships, he seems to have turned cheerleading squad in the San Francisco game cheerleaders around and ordering fans what to season, but a weekend like this things around in only his first when he called a timeout after his team had cheer and when to say it. He emphasizes rhe means the difference between a squandered a 15 point lead down to 7 and pressures of being number-one, pressures only
year.''light and an active schedule. Rookie Cornhusker coach desperately shouted to the cheerleaders, "Can he and his team can fully understand. But to 
Thus does Notre Dame wres­Bob Fehrs, coming off a suc­you give me one abuse cheer." When asked handle these pressures, I feel he'd be better off tling coach Ray Sepeta view the cessful 10-1 season at Northern after the game by a reporter what an "abuse keeping his mind on the other team. 
implications of his ream's most Frank McGuire, the dean of College basket­
Michigan last year, generally cheer'' was, the Irish head coach responded,grueling weekend of the sea­starts seven or eight freshman ''You know, they do it at football games. It's the ball coaches, and countless other players and 
son, a weekend in which the in each dual meet. only cheer they know.'' coaches have praised the ND fans this year Irish grapplers face four dual ''We are starting a new While Phelps' comments were provoked by a remarking on their impact on the game. meet opponents in three days. tradition with these young sense of frustration, his public criticism was McGuire claimed the crowd was worth eight
' 'I realize that there is a lot of men," claims Fehrs. "We are irresponsible. It also raises two questions. points in the closest home game the Cagers have pressure on our wrestlers, but played to date.
hopiPg to spearhead the resur­Are the students living up to their reputation 
in a way that's goe>. for them," 
gence of Nebraska wrestling." as "the greatest student body in the world?" I The debate about the crowd's effect 1s explains Sepeta. ' lt will be an Top returnees for the Corn­would say that the crowds at the ACC have been unimportant. What is important is that the excellent prepan 1on for the huskers are Court Vining and less responsive than in the past, but I am not players not be distracted in their bid for a upcoming Nauonal Catholic and George Mink, both NCAA tour­sure if that is because they are getting lazy. National Championship. Phelps has proven 
NCAA tournaments.'' himself as one of the finest coaches in the game
nament qualifiers last year. More probably, their cheenng has paralled the
The Irish open their rigorous intenstty of the games, which have been less and has done much for Notre Dame. The players 
On Saturday afternoon at 1
weekend !sate against Nebras­have proven that they can play with and beat the 
pm, the Irish will play host to than spectacular. If a number-one ranked San 
ka in a dual meet scheduled for the Blue Streaks ofT ohn Carroll Francisco team walked into the ACC tomorrow, I best of them. Notre Dame's student body is not 
7:30 tonight in the ACC. University. Notre Dame is am sure that the Notre Dame student body ready to relinquish their crown as the Most Tonight will be the first-ever looking to avenge Carroll's would respond with the same legendary enthus­Valuable Fans in the country. So if everyone confrontation between the two 19-12 upset verdict last year. iasm displayed two years ago. If the crowd does their job the season wtll be a successful squads. one.
"We always have a good shows signs of apathy at the UCLA game, I will 
Sepeta sees many indications match with John be­Perhaps the fans and Digger have been
Carroll believe "it ain't like it used to be." 
for a good match tonight. cause it's such an intense The second question, which seems more spoiled a bit. Let's hope neither spoils it for the "Nebraska has formerly been rivalry," notes Sepeta. "Last pertinent, concerns Digger's involvement in players who ultimately entertain the fans and 
known as the weak link in the continued on 
~c~ivities off the court. Even Fordham Coach score the points that win ballgames. 








