' 
• • • Angel -page 1.1 
( .Jt'~;{: . 

VOL. XIV, NO. 13 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1979 
HUrricane Frederic darkens Mobile 
. MOBIL~, Ala. (~P)-HurricaneFrederic, paralleling the path Of killer ~urncan Camill~a decad~ ago, pushed onto land last night, darkemng nearly all of Mobde County and sending swirling curb-deep water through downtown stre~ts. 
Winds just outside the eye of the storm, which came ashore around 10 p.m. CDT, were keeping their 130 mph fury. Tornadoes were spawned all along the Gulf Coast. 
Thee were no early reports of storm-related injuries. 
More than 400,000 people from four co.astal states were evacuated, and National Guard­smen were alerted in Florida, Alabama, Louisiana, and Missi ssippi. 

Hijacker 

demands 'humane world 
BONN* West Germany (AP) -A youn~ man hijacked a West Germandetliner in flight, held out in a ay-long standoff at the Bonn airport insisting that the nation hear his demands for a "a humane world,'' then surrendered last night. 
The hijacker freed the 119 other passengers and four of the eight crew members un­harmed seven hours after the Lufthansa Boeing 727 landed at the Bonn-Cologne Airport, but had kept four crew members aboard the plane, demanding to tald to Chancellor Helmut Schmidt and a television news crew. 
The man, who was not immediately identified, sur­rendered at 5:20 p.m. EDT. 
Lufthansa spokesman Franz Cesari said no one was injured; and the weapon the man bran­dished dunng the hijacking turned out to be a toy p1stol. 
Cesari said Hans { uergen Wischnewski, Schmidt s top aide, talked to the hijacker "with great endurance and a lot of intelligence," persuading him to release the four crew members and surrender. · 
"The entire action ended happily.,'' Cesar~ told reporters at the aJ.CPOrt mmutes after the surrender. 
The flight originated in Paris and stopped in Frankfurt and was on its way to Bonn-Cologne when it was hijacked. 
After the plane taxied to the parking area; drawn-out nego­tiat~o~s began w_~th th~ crew rad101ng the hiJacker s de­maQ.ds to Wischnewski in the tower. 
Ham radio operators who listened in on communications between the cockpit and airport tower said the man read a 20-minute political manifesto demanding a West German 
[continued on. page 5] 

In Mobile, the one-storm 
100-foot-long concrete block 
east west of the Fort Hardiman 
National Guard Armory was 
knocked down by the storm's 
winds. The building, which 
normally holds a medical com­
pany, was being used by the 
Mobile Policedepartment as a 
temporary precinct house. 
Officer R.W.smith said about 

25 police officers were in the _ building at the time, but none· were injured because they knew the wall was coming down by 
the sound it made. 
The roof of the Mobile City 
Hall, built in the 1800's, was 
torn off by the winds. 
To the west of Mobile, in 
Pascagoula, Miss., a spokes­
man for the huge Ingalls Ship­
yards said the storm caused 
extensive damage. 
''Heavy equipment was 
thrown everywhere, buildings 
are down," he said. 
Frederic's prying winds tore 
roofs off of two of22 emergency 
shelters in Pascagoula, forcing 
rescuecrews tomove 400 people 
to other buildings at the height 
of the storm. 
In .Mobile, windows in down­
town buildings were blown out 
by the heavy winds or broken 
by blown debris. 
[continued on page 2] The Faculty Senate metlast night to pass a final version ofa survey to be distn'buted among the faculty. [photo by Tom jackman[ · ­

Alumni first 




Busick confirms ticket policy 
by Tom}ackman Senior StaffReporter 
Ticket manager Mike Busick yesterday confirmeg the Uni­versity's policy concerning dis­tribution of tickets for away football games: "We take care of contributing alumni first.'' 

ND Faculty Senate approves .final survey 
by Mark Rust News Editor 
The final version of a survey intended to clarify faculty income levels and attitudes toward research was passed last night by the Faculty Senate in a two hour meeting, their first of the year. 
The survey, which will be distributed among faculty members and compiled next week, concerns itself with a numb-er of topics, but the importance placed by Senate members on income and research was reflected in their prolonged debate on those particular questions. 
Both the Faculty Affairs Committee and the Committee on Administrational Affairs met during the meeting to set their agenda for the year. Mike Francis, profesSOl'-of government, reported that the hiring of minorities and women and the general policy on retirement age will be topics his committee plans to take up with the Administration this year. Irwin Press, professor of Anthropolo~y, said that his Faculty Affairs Committee would seek to clanty and study the appeals and grievance procedures for faculty hiring and appointments. 
The Faculty Affairs Committee also talked extensively about salaries and fringe benefits. While the University has published an ''average'' salary figure and compiled a list of fringe benefits committee members agreed that, for their purposes, the figure~ are inadequate. Press explained that the average salary figure does not reflect distribution according to race and sex, and the listing of fringe benefits are so complex that they are not easily reduced to dollar figures. 
Under the direction of Press, the committee resolved to use survey information on income to do a comparative study of income levels at Bi~ Ten schools, "peer group" schools and Notre Dame. A simdar study was conducted by, the committee last year, using the University's average salary figure. At that 
(continued on page 2] 
·------­
Students may obtain tickets only after the demand from alumni is satisfied, and several times a year the alumni demand forces either a lottery and/or a geographical restriction of tic­ket distribution. 
-Busick did receive inquiries from students last spring about obtaining tickets for this first­ever game at Michigan, but they were told they would have to wait for the outcome of the 
alumni distribution over the 
summer. 
Busick did receive inquiries 
from students last spring about 
obtaining tickets for this first­
ever game at Michigan, but 
they were told they would have 
to wait for the outcome of the 
alumnL distribution over the 
summer. 
For Notre Dame's upcoming 
game in Ann Arbor this week­
end, the University was allotted 
6000 tickets, but requests from 
contributing alumni (those who 
contribute at least $25 to the 
annual alumni fund) exceeded 
the availability. A lottery was 
held, restricted to those resid­. ing closest to Ann Arbor, and cancellations resulted in 60 tickets being made available to students. Busick said that these tickets were ''snapped up within minutes." 
Busick pointed out that tickets 
for games at Michigan State 
and Southern California are 
almost always available be­
cause the demand from alumni 
isn't as great. Purdue, Busick 
said, is traditionally_a high 
demand game because it is 
closest to where most ND 
alumni reside, There are 
25,000 contributing alumni 
across the country. 
Deciding the number of tic­
kets to be set aside for visiting 
teams is done by reciprocal 
ljgreement. For example, when Mic I igan contracted with Notre Dat!lL in the late 1960's for a series of games, the two schools decided that 8. 5 percent of the total seating would be allocated to the visitors. 
However, several years later Michigan cut its visitors allot­ment to a flat 5000, hardly 8.5 percent in the nation's biggest college football stadium, which houses approximately 103,000. Michigan did agr.:;e, though, to allot 6000 tickets for the Notre 

Mike Busick 
Dame game only. Notre Dame reduced its number of available tickets from the customary 5000 approxjmately 8 percent to 3500 to equalize the reduction. 
Purdue allQtS 5000 tickets to its visitors, ''not nearly en0u ·h" for Notre Dame, said Busick Michigan State 10,000 an<PUSC 15,000. Busick added that he has heard through reports that Ohio State, not an ND opponent, allocates only 3800 tickets for its visitors 
section .. 


House kills--measure re.quiring dr~ft ,egistmtion 
W ASHmGTON (AP) -The House rejected an attempt yes~erday· ;to require. 18-year-old m~n to regist~r for the military draft, somethmg they havern thad to do s1nce 1975. By a vote of 252-163, House members turned down a plea by Rep. G. V. "Sonny" Montgomery, D-Miss., to require all 18-y~r-old men in the country to register beginning on Jan. 2, 1981. The House voted 259-155 to take the draft-registra· 
tion measure out of a $42.1 billion weapons bill and instead directed President Carter to conduct a study on the matter. Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill said he believed the House vote would end for the foreseeable future efforts in Congress to bring back registration. 
FJephants to retrace Hannibal's Alp crossing 
BRAMANS • France (AP) -Two adventure-seeking Americans and a Frenchwoman left this picturesque Alpine villiage yesterday with a cou~l~ of tons of hay, two rented circus elephants and the ambmon to follow the 2,197-year­old footsteps of Hannibal into Italy. "The weather is fantastic," said Jack Wheeler, a 35-ye~r-old .former philoso~;>hY professor from Los Angeles who ts headtng ~he expediuon. "~e've. got the elep~ants and we're leavtt,I~ right now. Well be to Italy someume over the weekend. Wheeler's group plans to trace the route taken by the commander of the Carthaginian army when he crossed the Alps with 37 elephants, 20,000 infantrymen and 6,000 cavalry to fight Rome during the Second Punic War, which began in 218 B.C. 
Mount FJna erupts,'
1 
six dead, 20 in_jured 
CATANIA, Sicily (AP)-Mount Etna spewed hot rocks, gas and ash on a group of 200 tourists yesterday near ~he summit, killing six persons and injuring at le~st 20, pollee reported. Police said three of the dead were ltahans, one was a french woman, and the other two were not identified. A mountain guide said the crater Exploded like a cannon.'' The state-run television said at leas 35 were injured. Police said some were seriously burned and taken to hospitals at the foot of th...: mountain. 
Weather 
,._ .. -. ' At'o percent ch.ance of rain today, with a high i~ the mid ~o 
upper 70's. Tontght a 40 percent chance of ram, low mtd 
50's. Cloudy tomorrow with a slight chance of rain. High 
upper 60's to low 70's. 
r­




CamP-_u_s------~ 
10 am-5 pm BOOK SALE, for students & faculty, LIB. CONCOURSE 
4 pm SEMINAR, "multiphoton ionization spectroscopy," dr. m.b. robin, bell labs, murray hill, n.j., sponsored by 
radiation lab, CONF. RM. RADIATION LAB  
4:30 pm O'SHAG  MEETING  FULLBRIGHT SCHOLARSHIP  118  
5-6:30 pm RECRUITMENT, neighborhood program volunteers, DINING HALLS  study  help  

6:30pm MEEUNG, leaqership training class, sponsored by. campus crusade for christ, BULLA SHED 
. 

7 pm MEETING, nd, council for retarded, LIB. AUD. 
7 pm SOUND WORKSHOP, for all interested in small sound systems, LA FORTUNE BASEMENT 7 ,9, 11 pm FILM, "harold and maude," ENGR AUD 7 pm MEETING, junior advisory council, ALUMNI LOUNGE 7:30pm FILM, "the lady killers," WASH. HALL, $1 
8 . pm FACULTY RECITAL, jeffery jacob-piano, SMC LITTLE THEATRE 
8 pm LECTURE, ''good government, justice & self-fulfilling individuality," dr1 david l. norton, ,u.,of delaware, sponsored. by economics dept., GALYIN AUD. 
9 pm, OPEN STAGE BLUES, NAZZ 
ewsin brief 
ThUrsday, September 13, 1979 -page 2 
• • • Hurricane 

were without power late last ed Mobile, officials'~repared to
[continuedfrom page 1] 
night. Repair crews were kept transport two unconscious dia­
Bruce Gilliland of· Alabama· indoors, he said, adding that no betics and the pregnant woman Power Co. said 100,000 to attempt would be made until from emergency shelters to 110,000 or its customers, or 90 this morning to restore power. hospitals. to 95 percent, in MobileCounty Other power outages were re­()ffj,cials said they expected 
ported along the Gulf Coast. 

they ·would have about two To the south, waves were hours d.f calm weather as theNazz plans breaking over the only bridge eye passed over the city to connecting Dauphin Island to move the patients. Williams the mainland. said it was "unusual to have an
meeting 
As the storm's eye approa.ch-eye this big.'' 

There will be a meeting for all those who are planning to rent the Nazz sound system tonight I at 7 p.m. in the 
• • . Faculty Senate 
LaFortune basement. The 
meeting is also for those who 
signed up at Activities night. . 
For more information, call Jim 
[continued from page 1]

Geselbracht at 4763 or 7757. time the committee found that University faculty salaries ran $600 to $1400 below those at other schools. Tenure. a subject sure to generate controversy within the coming 
f-The Observer_ 
raonths, was touched on indirectly through discussion of the 
survey. Many faculty members-particularly those who areNight Editor: Beth Huffman "tenure tracked" -have complained that the criteria theAsst. Night Editor: Randee University uses for tenure appointments is unclear.
Jennings 

While the University stresses publication and scholarly
Copy Editor: John Ferroli, 
research ·as important in tenure decisions, faculty members
Tom jackman 
complain that many times the University is concerned with how Layout Staff: Tem· Blazi, 
many dollars the researcher is getting from the government, 
rather than concertrating on the research itself.

Rich Fischer, Ron Hender­
"Research and publication-those words have flown around
son, Deirdre Murphy, Rose­
campus quite a bit and raised quite a bit of controversy,'' said one faculty member. "What does the University mean by
mary Mills 
Editorial Layout: Tom Beh­'research' t ' ' 
ney 

"We are using this survey to get an empirical view of theFeatures Layout: K. Con-faculty opinion on these questions," Ken Goodpaster, Faculty
nelly 

Senate president, said at the meeting. ''This survey will also be 1Sports Layout: Mark Perry used to gauge the salary level, correlating it to different groups of
Trpists: Shaun McAuley, 
minorities and women.''

Beth Huffman, Mark Perry, 
Other questions on the survey deal with such subjects as
Bill Swift, Beth Willard, Paul 
"senior seriousness." Faculty members will be asked their
Paula Shea 
views on "the general tone of the senior year," and their Day Editor: [SMC] Peggy response may have an impact on final exam policy for seniors and 
Schneeman; [NDJ Katie Ktl­
such diversions as the "senior death march." 
kuskie 

The senators also chose a new chairman for the Student Affairs Ad Layout: joe Murphy 
Committee. Steve Batill, professor of Aerospace Engineering, Photographer: Tom } ack­
was chosen unanimously for the post. 

man thanks 212 
The Observer [USPS 598 920] Is published Monday through Friday ex­
WORKSHOP FOR LECTORS cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the 
for all those who plan to serve · 
students of Notre Dame and Saint 
a

Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year [$10 per 
campus at hallliture:ies and in Sacred semester] from The Observer, P.O. box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second 
miniStry Heart Church 

class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
Date: Sunday, Sept. 16 Place: ·Hayes­

The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
Time: 7:00pm -9:30pm Healy Aud.

rights are reserved. 
A 


FISh Story 







The Observer ThUrsday, September 1'3, 197~ -~3 
Students witness security officers apprehending bike thief suspect 
byjohn Ferroli apprehend the suspect when which he overheard. StaffReporter he tripped over a wire fence Security officials declined' to between LaFortune and Crow­disclose details of the incident At least three students wit· ley Hall. last night. One official did 
nessed Notre Dame security The student also reponed state that security had five officials chase and apprehend a that he thousht the youth was a suspects in custody, but he did young male suspect across the suspected btcycle thief, based not specify why they were being 
campus last night, the Observer on shouting by security officers held. has discovered. One of the students· stated that he saw a security car chase the youth down the sidewalk 
Aides report ~ Van:c~ 
between LaFortune Center and Sorin Hall. Security officers then proceeded to pursue the 

Dobrynin in negotiation
youthon foo~, and ,managed to WASHINGTON (AP) configured to carry nuclear 
Aides say Secretary of State bombs. Cyrus Vance is trying to cool Meanwhile, President Carter down-the crisis atmosphere said that rejection of the SALT
Volunteers 
over the presence of Soviet II treaty could cause America's troops in Cuba by conducting a allies ''to search for a weaker prolonged series of low key relationship with the Soviet negotiations with Soviet Am-Union and others."
needed to 'aid 
bassador Anatoly Dobrynin. Add · 1 1· · 1
25

The two continued their dis-ressmg re tglOUS ea­
ders at a White House break­
cussion of the issue over lunch fast, the President said Senate yesterday. ·refusal to ratify the nuclear
elder~y 
Senate considerationI of the arms treaty could mean the end SALT II treaty was virtually at a of a common U.S. -Soviet effon standstill pending the outcome • • to find a way toward reduction ofnegotiations on the situation. and eventual elimination ofVolunteers are needed to 
The Carter administra-1 f:
!;ive a little of their time to help tion continued to refuse all ~f~hee~;~h.~?ns rom the face
the elderly in South Bend comment on the substance of The breakfast began a fullVolunteer time is fle:xtble-all 
the Vance-Dobrynin negotia-day oflobbying for the treaty by you need to have is a winimum 
tions. h · 
of 2 spare hours, and .t is not But officials said they expec-t e religiOus leaders, who rep-mandatory that you wm k every ted a long series of meetings r~se~ted more than' 40 orga­week. Jobs vary, as different ruzauons. 
mig-ht be necessary to achieve a The Rev. William Howard,cases get called in all the time. 
sattsfactory settlement. resident of the National Coun-Psychology majors might be This, they added, was part of il f Ch h ld
parucularly interested, as 0
the adminstration stratregy. By c urr es. to reporters
future internships (paid), are after the breakfast that con­
meeting often and sayin~ cern over roe presence of Sovietavailable in this area. For more nothing, the administrauon combat troops in Cuba shouldinformation, please contact Lisa hopes to develop an atmos-h
3725. phere of routine business. not weig against acceptance of 
the treaty.
This was seen as a way yo The coalition of 175 American 
end the crisis atmosphere r

which rapidly arose during last re tgious leaders representing
40 relili!:ious organizations
week's series of revelations and scheduled personal visits with news conferences. 62 senators --· 
State department spokesman 
. H~facker 

Hodding r.::~rter said. however, that the administration 1 has not been impressed by public Soviet denials that the troops in SMC forms 
[continueti from p"age l] Cuba form a combat unit. Spokesman Caner denied a
referendum on nuclear power, 
contention by retired Maj. Gen.

improved child care and abol­

SOciology Oub
) ohn K. Singlaub that the
ition of the armed forces. 
Soviets were in r.uba to
''All I want if a humane guard nuclear bombs world in which it isworthwhileto on MIG-23 fighters. The Saint Mary's Sociology live," he was quoted as sayin~. • He said there is no evidence Club will hold an organizationalHe complained that ex-convicts meeting tonight at 7: 30 at the
that there are nuclear weapons
are marked for life because ot Madeleva Faculty Lounge. 
in Cuba, or that the MIGs are
certain entries in their identifi­

river city records presents an evening with... 
(lOf,ttl~"\ 9.0 ,\9:~~\.((\ttl..n.\9. 
. ,.. ~~\.\l• 
nnd specinl guest to be nnnounced 
sundny september 23rd 8:00pm mORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUm SOUTH SEND 
\ 
•TICKETS: J8.50/ $7.50 reserved and ate on sale now at RIVER CITY RECORDS 
on US 31 North ONLY call 277-4242 for further information 


sept. 20 s:oo om ~ w1nqs staOium kalamazoo 
Tickets ar• now on sale In South Send 
•xcluslvely at River City R•corda, 50970 
U. S. 31 Morth-3 miles north of campus For further lnformatlon call-277-42421 

cation documents '' after read­ing his statement, he freed the 123 hostages. 
In negotiations that followed, Wischnewski asked the man"to be humane himself~ and re­lease the rest of the crew, Cesari said. 
"The crew is free. I only have a toy pistol,'' Cesari quoted the hijacker as replying. 
Wischnewski then agreed to meet the hijacker aboard the plane. 
Wischnewski told reporters preparations had been made to end the hijacking by other mean& if the talks failed. He did not elaborate. 
It was not known where the hijacker boarded the flight. Lufthansa officials said both the passengers who boarded in Frankfun and the few continu­ing on to Bonn-Cologne from Parjs underwent security checks. 
Cesari said the man went to the front toilet carrying a black briefcase and an airsickness bag, and frQm there entered the cockpit. Passengers t<>ld re­P.?ners the man had faked illness and at his request was seated up front. 
MASS follow-ed by
supper 



every

FRIDAY 

at the 



The Observer Thursday, September 13, 1979-J>a2~ '4 
To improve quality
Student Union Social Commission 


Band increases ntentbership 
or~anizational meetin~ 1 
by Kelli Flint marching ume, band officials format for the show includes
******************************* 
said. Instead of marching to four marches, beginning with This year's Notre Dame the practice field every day, an English march a ·1 ending
THURSDAY SEPT 13 7:30pm 
marching band features a sub­band members will meet on the with the traditional Victory
******************************* 
stantial mcrease in number as fteld for musical rehearsal from march. well as a change in practice 4:30 to 6 p.m. on Mondays, O'Brien, beginning his 28th
student union office 
schedule, according to Band Tuesdays, Fridays, and Satur­year in this position, sees this (2nd floor Lafortune) 
Director Robert O'Brien. 197 days. Wednesdays and Thurs­year's band as one of the best students from Notre Dame, days are reserved for marching ever. He also noted that about Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross to the field. 12 new members are children ( c
come and start your thursday 
Junior College were accepted Returning members view the former marchers. for the band's 134th season. shortened practice marches as a Associate Band Director
ni~ht off ~ht!!! 
Vice-president Mimi Sullivan valuable move. ''The walk-on James PhilliJ?s agreed that this attributes this increase to the schedule saves more time for year's band IS one of the best, high quality of the instrument­music rehearsals and field and attributed its success to 
PLANTS TO GO 
10% Discount to all students with ID on all plants a & imported pottery 
also macrame 
coupon expires 9/26/79
jewelry 

2 blocks past O'Hanlon's on lronwo~d 1st stop sign, left on ffillburne 2502 ffillburne 259-5313 
FOUR DIRECTOR SERIES CONTINUES This Thursday, September 13th, the 2nd 
· of 3 Alexander Mackendrick films, The Lady Killers, will be presented in Washington Hall at 7:30pm. 
Other films yet to be shown Include: 

9-2Q-79. Sweet Smell of Success 
9-27-79 My Uncle Antoine 10-4-79 Take It All 1D-11-79 Kamarouska 10-18-79 The Third Man 11-1-79 Odd Man Out 11-8-79 The Fallen Idol 11-15-79 The Fiancees 11-29-79 Sounds of Trumpets 12-6-79 To be announced 
Admission is $1. 

----------~---------------------J 

-
-
II 

eers. "Our present band is better than previous ones be­cause of the number," she added. ''There is more br:o ·-; and greater depth to t1 ' 
drum section this year.'' Practice times were altt..red to concentrate on music anJ save 








PEP RI\LLY 
-Tl\llRS. NilE 'J:OO 
ADMII'!.I3LDl1.­
marching,'' commented a sophomore member. Old members are also pleased with the larger number of members, which adds to sound quality. 
The band is currently in rehearsal for Saturday's Michi­gan's football game. The, hard work and training. 
A total of 97 band members will be selected toon to travel to Tokyo for the Notre Dame­Miami football game scheduled for November. Details on the trip will be verified when O'Brien visits Tokyo Sept.l6. 

A gastric relief from the dining hall food can be found in the many picnics being held on campus. [photo b:y Tom jackman] 


0.C. Council meets , 
I ' ' 


discusses neighbors 
by Dan Letcher SeniorStaf!Reporter 
Shannon Neville, Off-Cam­pus commissioner expressed concern last night about com­
plaints she heard at a recent 
Northeast Neighborhood Assoc­
iation meeting. • 'The students 
are disturbing the neighbors to 
such an extent that some resi­
dents who have lived in the area for thirty years are considering 
moving •" she said at the 
Off-Campus council meeting. 
Assistant Housing Director 
Brother Ed Luther advised the 
council that' 'the more interest 
. 'd 
you show 10 being cons1 erate towards your netghbors, the 
easier it will become to smooth out the problems." The Off-CamJ?US Coucil then discussed the mspection pro­gram. which is being, ;un by the Housmg office, We have about 800 units to be inspected
and we just can't do it all,"
Luther said. He asked that the 
fi

council try to md some volun­
teers who would be willing to
inspect off-campus houses. 
"If we start out with about 
six students I can set up a 
workshop where substandard 
housing people and the South 
Bend Police can come in and 
train these people•"Luther 
·said. He estimated that after 
an hour workshop, the students 
co\lld then go out and recognize Luther said that an inspector 
would rate the plumbing, the 
electricity, the house conditions 
and even the landlord. "'Is the 
landlord gruff? Is he friendly? 
Does he undestand the needs oi 
the student? These are all things which the inspectors and myself should take into ac­count,,, Luther noted. 
The council then suggested that the volunteer inspectors be 
paid. Brother Luther said he 
had considered this and dido' t ·know if it would be possible. Neville stated that the council 
may be anle to get money
appropriated to pay· these vol­
unteers. No final decisions were reached concerning the council 
bv-laws, which must be form­ulated by October first. Neville said that the by-laws would be patterned after those of the Hall President's Conncil. 

The Off-Council is designed . 
. 
to tnsure the off-campus
student as great a role as 
possible in Notre Dame Life. 
Th 
e council should represent the s.tudents in government, provtde avenues of communi­cation\ between on and off campus students, and address the needs and problems of the 
off-campus student. . 
Neville said one need that 
will not ~e fulfillc:d is the Camp~.s Vtc;w morrung shuttle 

some of the..... problems which · bus. It will cost an extra J~ occur in houses. (continued on page..BJ 
The Observer Thmsday, September 13, 19_!?~·page ~.~ 



ND professor criticizes Chrysler aid 
by Beth Wtllard 
Despite the Chrysler Corpor­ation's claim that its financial collapse could cause an 8 per cent mcrease in unemployment, Notre Dame Professor of finance and business economics Animesh Ghoshal maintains that massive government aid for Chrysler is unwarranted at this time. 
"We have a profit/loss economy," Ghoshal said. "In a competitive situation losses as well as gains must be incurred." 
Chrysler has illustrated that statement with a vengeance; it has the worst financial report in American corporate history for this quarter. As a result, it has asked for/overnment aid in the form of 1 billion loan. The government would be reim­bursed by Chrysler paying extra taxes in future ( pre­sumably profitable) years. Chrysler has also requested special treatment with the temporary suspension of J?Ol­lution requirements, savtng them approximately $600 million. 
Although government spokesmen have not committed themselves, Herbert Sim, Chairman of the Finance and Business Economics Depart­ment, feels that they are "meeting Chrysler half-way " They are reputedly considermg offering to guarantee loans Chrysler secures from private sources. The government guaranteed $250 million in private loans made to the Lockheed Corporation in 1971 when it claimed it was in danger of bankruptcy, after refusing to do so for Penn Central in 1970. 
Sim believes that "Chrysler shouldn't be given special treatment in our economic system," but explains the Lockheed situation as justified since that corporation produced critical defense materials and virtually nothing else. 
If Chrysler declared bank­ruptcy, they claim that as many as 500,000 jobs could be lost; it employs 130,000 people directly and claims to affect another 370,000 dealers, suppliers, etc. Sim and Ghoshal both point out that such claims are unrealistic since many alternatives to simply shutting down the fact­ories exist. Chrysler could be reorganized under new management, or be broken up and taken over by other indust­ries or corl?orations. 
A cessation ofmanufacture of products vital to our nation (Chrysler is the major manu­facturer of army tanks) is not to be feared, says Ghoshal, since the profitable portions of the corporation will be picked up. 
Ghoshal suggests that the economy would be adversely affected in the short run, with some small increase in unem­ployment and commercial in­terest rates, but would be only mildly affected in the long run. 
Averting the economic up­heaval of a Chrysler declaration of bankruptcy is simply not justified, says Sim, because of the dangerous precedent that 

===========::::_;(:;.; 
Chrysler predicts increase in 1980 model car sales 
DETROIT (AP) -Chrysler Corporation yesterday predict­ed its total car sales would rise about 0.5 percent in the 1980 model year, when total industry sales will be slightly less than the current model year, the company said. 
Gar Laux, executive vice president for sales and market­mg, said Chrysler would sell 
1.15 million cars in the new model year, including imports from its Japanese affiliate, Mitsu6ishi Moters Corp. 
The industry should sell 10.6 million cars and 3.65 million trucks.. Laux said. 
Laux' prediction was more pessimistic than that of Generc:l Motors Corp. Chairman Thomas A. Murphy, the most optimistic industry forecaster. Murphy predicted 1980 model year total sales of nf·arly 11 

million  cars  and  3,7 5  million  
trucks.  
Ford  Motor  Co.  President  

Philip Caldwell last week tnade his prediction in terms of the 1980 calendar year--10.5 million cars and 3. 5 million rrucks. 
In the 1979 model year, which .has four weeks remain­ing, the !ndustry expects t<? ~ell 
10.8 milhon cars and 3.7 mllhon trucks. 
"We expect the market to get over its fears about recessiOn shortly after the first quarter of 1980 and to get stronger by next spring," Laux said.. 
A Chrysler spokesman said the automaker should finish the current model year with sales of 1,143,375 cars. 
Chrysler's 1980 model year sales would include 150,000 Mitsubishi cars, an increase of about 8.8 percent from this year's Mitsubishi sales, Laux said. Sales of Chrysler's U.S. built cars thus would be about the same as the current model y_ear, according to his predic­tiOn. 
Laux spoke yesterday to re­porters at a preview of the carmaker's 1980 models. All­new offerings for the year include smaller intermediate Chrysler Cordoba and Dodge Mirada and two-door Dodge Diplomat and Chrysler Le-
Baron. -­

College to Cateet Days Coming 

Sept. ·23 
would be established. -In tl-e future, corporations with ~dl',t;o~ losses would be encouraged to go to the government for help if Chrysler received aid now. 
Ghoshal admitted that the government would have an interest in Chrysler's financial success ifit loaned the company 
$1 billion. "Certainly there would be claims of government partiality if Chrysler were awarded large contracts in the future." Yet what he sees as a danger, he said, is "not nationalization, but the danger of following the path that Great Britain blazed in the last twenty years; throwing away_ tllx money to support inefficient industries. 
"Why should the govern­
ment guarantee what would be 
in effect a profit, instead of a 
profit/loss economy?" . 
If the government did loan 
Chrysler the money, he added, 
$2.00 discount off season pass or weekday lift ticket. 
"' 
~ -~ 


SKI CLOSE 
~ 
c: 
,.., 

'0 "' TO CAl\'I:PtJS
~ 
iIii ONLY 12 MILES FROM SOUTH BEND 0
a: £ 
'0 "' • 
-downhill skiing and cross-country "' -quad chairlift 
£ -ski school-GLM American racing -night skiing--all slopes illuminated -lodge with cafeteria, game room, bar 
Special! Now until September 30: season pass good anytime during 1979/80 season. 
. $104.00 20% djscount 
IUtttal Balltu &kt IWinrt 
R. No. 1 Box 434, Main St. Buchanan, MI 49107 (616) 695~3847 
----...-------------------------~ 
Saint Mary's Speaker's Series Presents 
Dave Toma, 
Former Newark police detective, whose true life experiences as a cop were the 
basts for the series 'Baretta& Toma' 
Carroll Hall SMC Mon. Sept. 17 8 'pm 
No Admission 



L----------------------------­
~~~m~~ll®~ !liLLL illA\L1L1 iJoffi®~W CD:JliJ\~~ 
Manditory Judicial-Workshop Thursday, Sept. 13 6:30--9:30 
CD®W~~LmLL~CB corm~~rmrn ~:r::rr IFILCID®ill o.ru]) illil.aWC8-Q 
it would not be in a good position to surervise the corp­oration's effictency. "After all, the government's efficiency record is not very good either.'' 
Asked if Chrysler's financial difficulties were due to poor management, Sim hedged somewhat. ''Chrysler has some very good managers,''said Sim. 
"Only part oftheir problem is a failure of management to con­vert to the production of small cars that the market is demanding. That problem was compounded by the present gas crunch.'' 
Ghoshal was less cautious in his response. ''The problem in the short run is certainly poor management. They didnt read the demand for small cars three years ago, when they should have. They contracted to buy a fixed number of small car en~ines a year, instead of budding their own plant." 

~ 
c 
~ 
•l• 

:::t~ 
CD­..
..

mz 
zo •
-? ~ 
J: z3: 
o­-n I"" 
)>J: 
-

. I Z)> 0 -.... )> 
_.z ~ 
0)
.0) 
0 
-• •" 





r------,
I .. 
I

I o, . 
I~;~~ en.
I_

•· @ :il ~ ~o•
I :~ ~· I In ~zl 
I ;~:_ ill s I
I ·--,. -~~~ 
I .] ~ I II ... :: lrfl ••
: .. .• I.!.J 
I I 
I I·
1-~ ---11 
I ~ ~ 01
I -.-~ I I 
I ! 8 ~I 
I c ~ )>I
I ~ I I I 
I ~ I 
I ~ ~ I 
I ~ ~ ~ I 
~l ~a I 
~~ ~ I
!~ ~ 
I~ I
.--------1 
I ~ I I ~ )>I
.I ~ .,~ I 
I ~ ~ O<l 
I ~ ~ I 
II ~ /1~ ~ --tl 
I [ ~: I
I ,~ ~ N I 
I~ 8 ~I 
.~.. % I 
I~ ~ I 
I~ I 
I~ ~ I 
.1~ $ I 
I I 






Editorials 
Thursday, September 13, 1979f-.-.e6 ;..--:: 
Absence noted 

p Q B Q
Hesburgh misses mass 
• • OX 
Thomas C. Jennings 
-. 

Where were you Father Hesb.urgh? . . 
Th1s year, as 10 preVIOUS 
years, Father Theodore 
Hes~urgh, th!= es~ee~ed 
prestdent of this Uruverstty, failed to appear at the official welcome for freshmen here at Notre Dame. The JWelcome Mass for the new Freshmen signifie~ the beginning of four years 10 the Notre-Dame "family," but where was our 
"fat~er".? 

Thts ume Father Hesburgh was in Vienna, Austria, at the United Nations Conference of Science and Technolo~y. True, this function was a significant event in world affairs but. . . was Hesburgh so indispensable there that he could not fly in to r meet with the impressionable r'" young men and women who r were 9:bout to embark upon t~e r most tmportant four years 10
, 
their lives? 

, 
Of course, it can be said in
, 
rebuttal, ''All Freshmen students !'ill be afforded the opportumty to see Father Hesburgh at various times throughout the school term,'' but who have Hesburgh's defenders overlooked? 'Over­looked' is appropriate; I dare not say they have forgotten. 
Student Lists they get around to completing the second dorm. If this occurs The parents! The parents 0 
the 1650 entering class were in! H • ~~ 1 • t 
atu;nd.ance at . this, thej -QUStflg UJffiPlatfl s the building of the new dorm~ 
of their son's o ·
begmrun~ 
daughters most momentou 

undertaking. Please Fathe Hesburgh do not forget th parents. Remember, these ac the people who will be puttin close to $2 5 000 in Notre Dame's treasu'rr, in the fou 
years their chila is enrolle here. 

Just to highlight the importance of their tuition these Freshmen parents wili contribute to the coffers of the University of Notre Dame over forty-one million dollars! That is a little more than loose change even for this institution. In fact, according to the official Fact Sheet of Notre Dame tuition accounts for 40% of th~ income of this University. Do not these "donors" deserve your presence Father? 
I believe they do and although it is too late for my parents and for me to benefi from bringing this to you attention, I sincerely hope that my words here will help you see the importance of you presence at the opening o school next year and years to come. 


The President and the Rabbit 
Art Buchwald 

WASHINGTION--By now most people know sw!m; mhers doubted that, even if they could th~ story about the President and the rabbit. For ~Wlf!I, they wou.ld attack a person holding an oar 
thoec who don't, it seems the President of the 
United States was out in a fishing boat alone and 
was attacked by a ferociou:-rabbit. The President 
splashed his oar at the rabbit.and drove it away. 
When he gv. back to shore he told his White 
Hous'e staffabout the incident but they wouldn't 
believe him. 

Now if this was just the story of a President 
and a bunny it would be none of the public's 
business. But the tale does have political 
implications and it says quite a bit about Mr. 
Carter's way of running the White House. 
In previous administrations it is hard to 
imagine anybody on the President's staff 
doubting the word of his boss. 

If Presidents Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy or even ~ixon had said they_ had been attacked by a rabbtt on a pond a staffer's reaction would have. bee~: "Tha~k God you 're safe, Mr. Prestdent. Or 10 the case of President Johnson, Jack Valenti or Joe Califano would have said, "Please tell us about it, sir, and don't leave out one detail." 
Even Gerry Ford's staff would have taken the 
Chief Executive at his word. 

But such was not the case with President 
Carter. When he got back to shore with what he 
thought was a good tale to recount, his people 
refused to believe him. 

As far as it could be learned not one person said, "Well done, Mr. President. That rabbit will think twice next time before he attacks the leader of the most powerful country in the world." or "Ifthis doesn't show you can row and hit a rabbit at the same time, nothin~ will." 
Instead he found nothing but skepticism when he related the story amongst his advisors and friends. Some insisted that rabbits could not 
Dear Editor: 

Fo~ . yeru:s the University 
Adm1mstrat1on has been telling 
us that they would be doing 
something about the ongoing 
housing shortage on campus 
which has plagued N.D. 
students. Now they reveal that 
there will be new dorms built by 
the Fall of 1980 which will he 
able to house 500 studems. But 
lo and behold, they :>!·e also 
admitting 500 new students! ! ! 
May I ask how this is relievmg the current housing shortage? Answer: It doesn't. If this isn't bad enough, the rumor (?) circulating in · the Towers is that one of the Towers is going to be used next year by the 500 new female students, and that the guys from the tower will be moved into the new dorms. (This will be done because the Adminis­tration feels that the Towers ace too rowdy.) 
But only one dorm, capable of housing 250 students will actually be completed by the Fall of 1980, leaving the other 250 guys out in the cold until 

!n hts hand. Sull others showed by their silence JUSt how far morale in the Administration had declined. 
It is rumored that Ham ] ordan had even considered giving everyone who worked for Mr. Carter a loyalty test to find out who believed the President's bunny story and who didn't. 
President Carter, who never shows his emo~ions, was crestfallen. The credibility of the Presidency had reached such a low point that even when Mr. Carter said he had been attacked by a swimming rabbit, no one would take him at h1s ~or~. Mr. Carter, chalked it up to the malaise 10 the country that had now infected even his own staff. 
Fortunately for Mr. Carter, a \White House photographer, who was on a bluff overlooking the pond, had taken a picture of the battle. Carter showed the photo to his staff who studied it, but they were still skeptical. Someone said, "It's an animal but how do we know it is a rabbit?" 
For the first time since he took office Mr. Carter stopped smiling. He orderedJody Powell to blow up the part of the photo which highlighted the thin~ in the water. Then he called in the staff aga10. "Well, is it a rabbit or 
· isn'tit?" 

They finally decided by a vote of 5 to 4 that it was a rabbit. Jody Powell, who voted with the majority, went ahead and released the story. 
Thus the country was assured that a President who had promised Americans when he took office that he would never lie to them had once again kept his word. 
But the real question that goes begging is: :·why wouldn't~~· Carter's people believe him m the first place? [c) 1979, Los Angeles Times Syndicate . 
and the acceptance of 500 additional students will not even be keeping things at the status quo. Rather, the housing situation will have worsened considerably, with 250 more people being thrown off campus. 
1 
Whether the scenario I have just laid out, and which was told to. me by a couple of concerned fnends who are Grace resi­dents, actually occurs or not, can Y?~ bl~me those people now ltvmg 1n the Towers for believing it? All they have heard for years are empty words and broken promises! 
But these new dorms to be 
, built are particularly slaps in the faces of the 2,000 graduate students at Notre Dame. With the addition of 500 new beds for the undergrads, this raises the total of beds on campus for undergrads to over 6,000! This is a bed for 6 out of every 7. 3 undergrads. Compare that to 250 beds for 2,000 graduate students. Of these 250 beds only 7 5 of them are for the mor~ than 1,400 graduate men currently enrolled at Notre Dame. I could go on for pages on how the average N.D. grad student is in a much tighter financial bind than most all undergrads, how marw ~• them have no transporta,· n, and desperately need inexpensive housing on campus, etc., etc. 

Ih:>nesbury 
I JlJST CAN'T BEL/eve 
But what would be the use? Who would listen? 
I have been accepted by a graduate program here at N.D., but for a variety of reasons, I have declined to attend grad­uate school here, and will be going elsewhere. After all, if an institution turns its back on you, then you are left with no choice, when they refuse to hear your pleadings, but to turn your back on the institution. Au revoir Notre Dame ... 
john Claude 
Indian Slur Marrs Article 
Dear Editor: 
Wednesday's article describ­ing a young woman's experi­ence in Appalachia was marred by the opening excerpt from Amencan Magazine, which states that the early white mountain settlers had to trek through ''Indian-ridden thick­ets The expression 'Indian­ridden' conjures up similar expressions and suggests that 
the white settlers found the mountains 'lousy with Indians' or 'Indian-infested,' and there­by serves to obscure the Red Man's humanity. I am confi­dent that this was not Ms. Dise's intent, and was surpris­ed to find such a remark in an article which otherwise spoke so well of human sensitivity and 
Christian love. 
Daniel Reagan 
Gary Trudeau 
IMAGINE HAVING A 5t'IE3NTEEN-Y13AR-IMAGINe ()/..!) PAU(jJ{'ftR ANP BEING THe 
NOT TeU.!NG 

M3/.J.., I 6le55 RIGHT! I£T's IV/3. fElT~ 613-T 7HI9 61/11-T 



admimstration of either institution. 
The news is reported as accurately and 


__The Observer_ 
Editorial Board 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46JJ6 
The Obseroer is an independent newspaper published by students of the Umversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opimon of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is avail­able to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, throt~gh letters, is encouraged. 
Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Editonal Editor .......... Ann Gales Senior Copy Editor ..... , M. Onufr~ Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewis News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Mark Rust News Editor .......... .Mike Shields Saint Mary's Editor ..... EllenBuddy '~MC News Editor ............. \M. Brassil \ 
Features Editor . . . . . . K. Connelly Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian Sports Editor ...........Mark Perry 
Business Manager .....Steve Odland Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan 
Advertising Manager ......Bob Rudy Controller ...........Kevin Manion 

• 


Features 
Thursday, September 13, 1979 1 page7
·­

ND Graduate is an Angel 
Jane Barber 
What do the words "angel" and but even more amusing was the Boss Mindy.'' But unlike Robin, Brogan is producers, writers and directors try.An Tostal have in common (besides Angel (Eileen Heckart). In the first not an antagonistic comedian. He is There is something uniquely special the fact that they both begin with episode, this grandmother-aged, more natural as a quiet, passive man about the original that somehow "an")? Only Jim Brogan--and he feisty supervisor of angels almost cannot be found in the imitation.
who plays off other characters. By acould only come from Notre Dame. sends Random back to his heavenly quirk of casting he was placed in a Brogan's unique talent has beenperch because he seems to be hurting 
One of the founding fathers of the role fit for a crazy, physical Orkan recognized by many. Time magazine
the orphans more than helping them. 
ND Spring festival, James E. Brogan, clown. Brogan's character is the called Brogan "the best since Robin
But never fear--with a little help from 
Class of '70, graduated with a degree equivalc;nt of a Mindy without a Williams'' to tour the improvisational 
his friend Mork from Ork, Random
in Sociology. On Sunday night, he Mork. Brogan needs a quick, antag­circuit. Even here at Notre Dame,
brings the dilemma to a happy
had another commencement--that of onistic partner to work with and Jim Brogan's talent is recognized and 
ending, "just like a Shirley Temple 
his introduction into the world of the complement. Some lines of the script commemorated. Every year, during
movie," as the Boss Angel points
television situation-comedy. He were clever, but the writing did not
out. The tale was touching in part An Tostal week, a Jim Brogan Award 
debuted as Random, an angel visiting live up to the expectations that being
but on the whole it was not tailored to is presented to the most original and 
Earth and star of the new ABC series, a spin-off from "Mork and Mindy"
Brogan's special talent. outstanding contribution to that An
creates.

"Out of the Blue.' 
Originally from Cleveland, Ohio, Tostal. celebration. His gift of 
Brogan plays a guardian angel to Jim Brogan has been playing improv­''Out ofthe Blue'' is suffering from originality and talent for making five Chicago orphans sent to Earth to isational clubs in New York and Los the spin-off syndrome where the people laugh are certain, but maybe help their ''Aunt'' Marion (Dixie Angeles in the wake of Robin magic of the original show cannot be his star would be shining brighter in Carter) raise them. The kids are cute Williams, star of the hit "Mor:k and recreated no matter how hard the another galaxy. 
ventional message. Sure, Devo is "Blockhead" laments the single "suburban robots that monitor real­
strange, but probably no stranger ity". Mr. DNA comes along and
sightedness that is all too common 
than any five guyc: you'd find around asks DEVO to sacrifice themselves
today. Unable to think for them­

This is Devo 
here. They have taken their own that others may live. They don't
selves, blockheads find comfort in 
theory one step he-vond Darwin's to conforming to the crowd: mind, they feel they have a lot to 
DE-evolution, and cultivated an ~ive. I hope the Smart Patrol never
Cube top, squared off 
~xtremely small, but fanatic follow­JOins forces with Elvis' "Goon
Eight corners, 90 degree angles 
mg. Squad".
Flat top, stares straight ahead 
Duty Now for the Future is their In "Red Eye", DEVO tells us
Stock parts, Blockhead!"
second release, and its worth a listen something is wrong in Idaho, and 
if you can ignore the strange glances jhats something only they would
"Strange Pursuit" tells a story of
from your friends--its their loss if know.
unrequited love, an odd topic for
they're not as open-minded as you DEVO has performed their duty for 
these self-proclaimed spudboys, and 
are. Music is supposed to be the future, and now it's your turn.
they admit as much in the title.
entertaining, maybe even fun. How can you refuse? Besides, there
Side 1 ends with the hangover
Remember fun? , ' really are people somewhere out
classic "S.I.B. (Selling Itching
The "Devo Corporate Anthem" there who like this music. Just don't
Brain)" a paranoid song about the 
opens side 1, a solemn sounding let the record store checkout girl pass 
morning after. The bass hoe will give 
instrumental hymn that is a tribute to · her code scanner over the album
you a migraine if you don't already.--­
the rise of themachine·-the cause of cover; DEVO felt it was their duty to
have one. ' 
man's de-evolution. It takes Devo a multi-code it.
Three rather weak cuts begin side 
minute to do what Alan Parsons 2, enough to make the most loyalneeded a whole album for--make you DEVO fan wonder why they were

-is it not? Theatre
feel ominous mechanical despair. 
included. None of the songs offer the ''Ciockout'' mocks the b1g busi­imagination that is characteristic of 
ness ethic, extolling the virtues of The Features department is look­
their music. 

Michael A. Korbel power and wealth, and the all­ing for persons to write theatre
The cream of this potato crop is
American 40 hour week. When being reviews. If interested, contact Kathy 
surely "Secret Agent Man". Its a
I run into this problem just a little important means making others at the Observer office. Performances
little different than what you may
too often, and I'm getting tired of it. crawl, DEVO tells you not to crawl; to be reviewed include community,
remember from the TV show, yet it's
Too many people cringe and run the rather "Clockout"! civic, and road productions as well as
easily recognized by its evil bass in
other way when you mention the New Electronics take over with ''Timing shows at Notre Dame and Saint
the background and the now hi.storic ~-...
Mary's.

Wave bands--which they mistakenly X'', the soundtrack playing in the 
line:

refer to as "punk." Punk has been .memory of your friendly ·neighbor­They've given me a number 
Jazz/Blues
around as long as Johnny Rotten--not hood robot. Fool your know-it-all 
and taken away my name absolutely nothing to do with ripped song this is--they'll never guess The Features department requests t-shirts, safety pin jewelry and nose DEVO. I guess it's safer to have DEVO on that persons interested in writing 
rings. It has everything to do with a The New Wave' beat arrives with our side than not, we need all the reviews of jazz and blues albums and return to the simplicity that rock'n' "Wiggly World"--a tune with the help we can get these days. events contack Mick Mancuso at roll began with. message "Yeah, we know we're "Smart Patrol/Mr. DNA" is next. 8212. Events to be covered include 
Devo takes thi.s New Wave simpli­different, so what?" If every one The Smart Patrol is afraid nobody performers on campus, at Vegetable city and adds their unique electronic wore alligator shirts, we couldn't tell understands them and they're right. Buddies, the Midwest Blues Festival effects to convey their rather uncon-who the cool people were. They plead that they're only and the Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
very long. The New Wave has friends by having them guess whose 


Rockpile: .Edmunds & LoUJe 
Mick Mancuso 
Rock and roll, in the original sense they have chosen to record under the "Sweet Little Lisa", Rockpile does it, ,all dynamite. How "Cruel to Be of the term, was music for the young names of their two most prominent up with a fury that makes one wonder Kind'' was picked for single release and the young at heart. It moved to a members, Dave Edmunds and Nick what ever happened to the Jerry Lee is unknown to this reviewer; I strong beat, was fairly simple, and Lowe. Lewis School of Rockabi'lly and how wouldn't have been able to make a most of all, it was fun. Names such come there isn't more of this stuff choice. Edmund's influence is more 
One Repeat When Necessary the
as Chuck Berry, Buddy Holly, and floating around. It gets you out of evident on Labour o-f Lust as is 
rockabillyside of Rockpile is heard,
Bill Haley stand out as central figures your seat and dancing, and I don't brought out in "Skin Deep" and 
true to Edmunds' guitar roots. Many
in the founding times of the style. _ mean disco dancins; I mean out and "Without Love." There is definitely 
will remember Edmunds for his early out rockin' and rolhn' like they did it more power in Lowe's power-pop this Through the years the form changed seventies hit "I Hear You Knock­at The Hop. time around.· 
and expanded until it was nothmg ing'', an all-time classic. The One1 thing that is disappointing in
like the original. But suddenly in the 
Edmunds on Repeat When Necessary Turning more toward the direction both these albums is that although
late seventies a group of new is not as strong as a whole as on of power-pop is Nick Lowe's Labour 
performers arose to put rock back previous albums, but on certain cuts ofLust. Not as disjointed as his Pure they are both quite good they fail to where it belonged all along. Terms elevates himself to a plateau usually Pop for Now People, Labour ofLust maintain the intense high energy that such as Power-Pop, Rockabilly, and seen only in live Rockpile perfor­shows the solidification of the song one expe.("ience~ at a Rockpile .con-New Wave were being fused tog-ether mances. writing talentS oflowe. lowe, whose cert. That Stratght forward let-It-go by various artists through revival of credits include producing Elvis feelin~ only serfaces on .a few cuts old classics and top-notch new mater­
Edmunds did not write any of the and it s a shame because I am a firm tal. In the end, what was actually songs on the album, choosing instead Costello~s landmark My Aim is True believer in th~ theory that most happening was the second coming of to use oldies and castoffs from other album, \las always been a force in the anyone who sees or hears this band Rock and Roll. artists and Edmundize them. Prime new r<>,clc scene orig-inally brought out live will be impressed. Maybe it's 
examples of this are Elvis Costello's by Stiff Records 10 England. Only only a hunger for a live Rockpile 
One of th~ finest examples of this "Girls Talk" and Graham Parker's recently has he received the acclaim album, maybe it's a hunger for "new rock" js a group from England "Crawling From the Wreckage", the and prominence he has deserved. It another Rockpile tour, but one thi.ngs names Rockpile. But don't run out latter coming close to summarizing would be extremely hard to pick any for sure: once you get hooked, Jou and try to find a Rockpile album, they the way this band came together. songs that are better than the rest on won't be able to get enough. An so don't exist under that name. Instead Teaming up with Albert Lee on this album because they are simply it goes. 
lliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilliiiiri""'"'--."Y..
.,l-,:·. ·.......... 
r 
Hachett-Simpson American League Mangine-West Krockelman-Schmidtleln (..,__________~] (,____________~) East
Moskop-Starich ' T • Baseball
· (___I_n_t_er_h_al_l_..J) Ash-Wyborski Cuzins-Yaeger eflfllS w L Pet. GB Sauter-Partner Panfii-McAward Baltimore 94 49 .657 -­0' Brian-Rivera Dawson-Sullivan NATIONAL LEAGUE Milwaukee 85 
60 .586 10
INTERHALL TENNIS PAIRINGS 

Frost-Alba NOTRE DAME 9, GOSHEN 0 Boston 81 61 .570 12V2 
The Observer • SportsBoard Thursday' September 13' 1979 -oaae8 
First round matches Singles
The pairing for all tennis tournaments will 

appear each Thursday in The Observer. It Is Murphy-Roesler (8021) v. Shuster-Bahlm No. 1--Patty Mullen (NO) del. Elaine Bigler,
the responsibility of the participants to (2n-5763) 6-2, 6-1. ~~~~~nh~~g~ ~08~n~~~=~~s~~~s ~~ta~pt:~~~~ O'Toole-Kennedy (1130) v. Boland-Richert No. 2--Carol Shukis (ND) del. Kori Miller,
(8205) 6-0 6-0 
matches must be turned In, In person, at the Rauh-McKenna (7819) v. Kilbride-Berry No' 3 Molly walsh (ND) del Gayle Perry
lnterhall office before noon on the following · -· • Wednesday. Failure to report the results to (3312) ~· ~1 ·M L (ND) J tt
0 d 1

the lnterhall office will mean disqualification ( · --ary egeay e · eane e
J 
of both participants. Results will only be Luczkowskl · 6-2, 6-1. accepted If the participants have filled out the so·CCef No. 5--Stasey Obremsky (ND) del. Alice
Brmder, 6-0, 6-0. 

proper InterhaII Insurance farms. After the Na. 6-Shelia Cronin (ND) del. Charlotte first week of the tournament, any participant "'-----------G' · h 6 o 6-1 
who has not met the insurance requirement NOTRE DAME 6, LOYOLA (CHICAGO] 0 ·mgevJc • -• · will be dropped out of that tournament. Scoring Doubles Due to the design of a single elimination First Half tournament, some participants receive byes. 1. Nd-Wetterer (Murphy), 24:35. 
No. 1-Linda Hoyer-Legeay (ND( del. Bigler­Those participants listed as having ·a bye Second Half Miller, 6-1, 6-1.

should check next Thursday's Observer for V2. ND--Kahale (Wetterer), 15:20. 3. 
No. 2--Cindy Schuster-Tina Stepan (ND(

their opponent. ND--Ciuni (unassisted), 24:43. 4. ND--Ciunl DEF. Bender-Gingevich, 6-0, 6-0.
Women's Singles (mal), 33:32. 5. NO-Mal (Ciuni}, 34:13. 6. 
Sheila and Laura Cronin (ND) del. Perry­NO--Lovejoy (Wetterer), 41:10. 
Luczkowski, 1-6, 6-1, 6-2. 


ND & smc SENIORS 

GREAT AmERICA 
amusement patk trip S·unday Sept. 16 LEAVE: 7:00 

RETURN: midnight 
S15.00 includes ttansportatlon &ticket to park S7.00 ticket only Tickets sold In Leffians Lobby and In the 
Senior Class office In LaFortune LAST DAY TO BUY TICKETS 
. 
I_, ..... ~-.,.~· ..-• ......-.~ . • -~............ .• 
• •"' • .. • • > •• 
." .... 

EAST New York 78 64 .549 15V2 Detroit 78 68 .534 11V2
W L Pet. GB 
Cleveland 74 71 .510 21Pittsburgh 87 57 .604 -­Toronto 46 98 .319 48V2
Montreal 84 55 .604 112 St. Louis 76 66 .535 10 WestChicago 73 70 .510 13V2 California 80 66 .548 ­Philadelphia 73 71 .507 14 
Kansas City n 69 .527 3New York 55 87 .387 31 Minnesota 74 71 .510 5V2WEST 
Texas 73 73 .500 7 Chicago 63 82 .434 16V2
Cincinnati 83 63 .568 -­Seattle 61 86 .405 19V2Houston 81 64 .559 1V2 Oakland 50 96 .342 30Los Angeles 69 76 .476 13% . San Francisco 64 82 .438 19 
Wednesday's gamesSan Diego 62 84 .425 21 Toronto 3, Baltimore 2Atlanta 56 88 .389 26 Boston 9, New York 2Wednesday's games Detroit 4, Cleveland 1San francisco 4. Atlanta 3 Chicago 11, California 5Montreal 6, Chicago 3 Milwaukee 7, Oakland 0Pittsburgh 2, St. Louis 0 Kansas City 4, Minnesota 0Cincinnati 7, Houston 4 Texas 13, Seattle 3Philadelphia 4, New York 0 Thursday's gamesLos Angeles 5, San Diego 2 New York (Guidry 16-6) at Boston (EckersleyThursday's games 16-10), nAtlanta (Hanna 1-1) at San Francisco (Knep­Baltimore (Flanagan 21-7) at Toronto (Huff­
per 9-11) man 6-14}, n
St. Louis (B. Forsch 9-10) at Pittsburgh 
Cleveland (Wise 15-7) at Detroit (Morris(Biyleven 11-5), n 13-7), nChicago (Reuschel 17-9) at Montreal (Lee Oakland (McCatty 1D-9) at Milwaukee (Tra­15-10), n vers 12-7), nPhiladelphia (Carlton 14-11) at New York Minnesota (Hartzell 6-8) at Texas (Comer(Berenguer 0-0), n 15'10), nSan Diego (Shirley 7-14) at Los Angeles (Reuss 5-13) 
... Leopold 
about who we don't have. We
[contt'nued from page 12] 

have to/lay with who we do and we like to think we were a have an I think we have some pretty good class. I guess you good people.'' could say we have a lot of pride Coach Kelly agrees. He calls in ourselves and in each other. ' ' Leopold "the fastest linebacker / If all of that is to happen, a I've ever coached at Notre 
win Saturday might be Dame,'' · and he believes that considered a must. he's got a very solid group of 
''Definitely,'' Leopold players at that position. emphasizes. "We have to win "We'll hold our own," he Saturday, and I really think we maintains. "With players like 
will." Bobby, Mike, Crable, Brendan 
In that case, Leopold's job is Moynihan and a freshman, as important as anyone's on the Mark Zavagnin, I think we'll be team, for it is the linebackers in pretty good shape." that must bear a large part of With kickoff a little more the responsibility for stopping than 48 hours away, Leopold is the option flay--an offensive relying on the advice of his 
staple o Coach Bo high school coach, Joe Schembechler's squad. WashinBton Sr., to get himself 
"We've been working on it in the nght state of mind. and I think we will be effective "Coach ·washington used to against it,'' comments Leopold. say that in order to play well, 
"We know that Michigan uses you have to dream about what the play and that they depend you're gonna do and then go heavily upon it. out on game day and execute," ''And we know how he reveals. "It's like making a important it is for us to stop it.'' plan for the game. I dream 
Leopold J. oins Mike about hitting someone or how Whittington an Bob Crable as I'll react in certain situations Notre Dame's starting and I find it does help get me linebackers on Saturday and he ready." thinks the trio can do the job. Notre Dame versus 
''Mike and Bob are very good Michigan. players and I think, on the It's a game many experts whole, the three of us might be predict that could be decided by a little faster than last year's "the big play" --a Bobby linebackers,'' he says. ''Now Leopold specialty. that's not to say that guys like "I guess I dream about that, Bob Golic and Steve too," he grins. Heimkreiter weren't great So does Bo Schembechler. players, but we can't worry Only he calls it a nightmare. 

smc sapb movie series pre~ents MEL BROOKS' 
The following participants have first round byes: Joyce Koppang Pam Gorski Maureen Noonan 
First Round Pairings 
Telephone numbers in parenthesis: Peggy Owens (1884) v. laurie Zellmer (6897} Missy Hartman (6232) v. Claire Perona(~) Joy Declo (2n-5842) v. SJobhon Kllbnde­(6232)
Sheila Roesler (8p21) v. Caroline Carson (1320)Eileen Rakochy (6885) v. Kim Boland (2207) 
Mixed Doubles 
The following pairs have drawn first-round byes: 
Donnelly-Percy Ryan-Matthews 
Matoesian-Reynolds Maus-Kotak 
Machezei-Saladins Gorski-Popkey 
Krappman-McCarthy Dolan-Gallegher 
Deuecke-Partner Burns-Ritchie 
Didler·Bernheim Hammer-Burton 
Budnyk-Welch Binkle-Partner Finney-Ferrero Kadleck-White Owens-Purcell Kwatkowski-Lang Shots on goal--Notre Dame 23, Loyola 2 

SportsBriefs 

Water polo club chanl(es meetinl( 
The organizational meeting for the water polo club has been chan~ed to today at 4 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Games, tnps, practices, etc., will be discussed. For more information call Mike (8879) or Cam (3434). 
Pep ral(y tonight 

The ti'rst pep rally of the 1979 football season will be held tonight under the shadow of the Golden Dome on the steps of the Administration Building, beginning at 7 p.m. ABC-TV will be on hand to film the rally for broadcast prior to the Michigan game, so come early for the best camera angles. Speakers at this special Michigan rally will be Irish Head Coach Dan Devine and tri-cap~ains Vagas Ferguson, Tim Foley, and Dave Waymer. The motto for this week is stiH: The Blue is Thru! 


NET CHAIR 
see our selection of: 
25% off with this ad sale price S40.50 sllkacreena J7.99 to 19.99 backgammon 119.99 to 39.99 
i 

:
; reading lamps S16 to S45 
l ' 
/ 
butterfly chairs 134.99 
tr 

mood lamps 129 to 169 
100 CENTER MISHAWAKA. INDIANA 46544 
Phone(219)255-2824 
20% off all wine tacks 
... with this co.upon coupon/one per customer good thru Sept. 16, 1979 
THE LIFESTYLE FURNITURE COMPANY 
'---------------------------------------------­

High Anxiety 
Friday & Sat. Sept. 14th -15 at Carrol Hall Smc. 
7:00, 8:45' 10:30 Admission $1.00 
The Observer ThUrsday, September 13, 1979 ~-..--:9 

Flood prevention work 

tae kWon oo
Molarity proceeds smoothly 
kaRat€ ClUB 
by Bruce Oakley ''They were there and done by Molinelli 
Tues & Thuts 6-8 pm in ACC Pit 
so quick, I hardly noticed Work intended to improve them," said one student. drainage and road conditions is Moorman also noted that 
new memb~ts welcome 
scheduled for completion today spot patching of campus roads at three sites across campus, would continue through Sep­
beginnets class being fotmed according to Assistant Director ember 21. of Maintenance John Moor­"This is all part of our 
lnsttuctots Qte: master Raymond L. Sell 
man. Work at a fourth site was continuing effort to improve the completed yesterday. 
physical conditions around 
4th Degtee· Black Belt 
"In order to ease drainage here," he added. "I think the 
classes start 
problems, we installed 600-new sidewalks on the North 
mr. Carl Dovidson
gallon catch ba-.ins near Badin Quad and near the Memorial 
this week 
Hall and in the Stepan 1 parking Library are further evidence of 
1st Degtee Black Belt
lot," said Moorman. "We also that effort." . 
did some work on the southside 
fot infotmation call mfke 3654 
road by Corby and Sorin Halls, 
and on the road behind the 
Logan Center 
architecture building.'' 
Moorman said the southside road was finished yesterday, and a "finishing course" of asphalt would be applied at the other three sites today. 
Weather conditions make it imperative that the work be done early in the semester, according to Moorman. This also means crews must some­times begin work early in the morning, but students surveyed by the Observer had no ·com­plaints about the work disturb­ing them. 
•

organtzes 
There will be an organi­zational meeting for all Logan Center volunteers tonight at 7 
p.m. in the library auditorium. Old and new volunteers are strongly urged to attend. 
Those who are unable to attend should be at Logan Center on Saturday, September 15, at 9 a.m. for the first annual rec. 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  24  Ornamental  
Imitation  stone  
gem stuff  26  Qualified  
6 Complain  voter  
unreason­ 28  Liquor  
ably  30  MakeR  
10 Toboggan  use oc  
14  Boisterous  34  Lucife•  
15  Hebrew  37  Magnificent  
measure  38  Conceit  
16  Nimbus  39  Vow  
17  Jewish  41  Agents of  
cleric  retribution  
18  Buddhist  43  Some  
sacred  44  French  
dialect  upper house  
19  Impartial  46  National  
20  Sean's  League  
la~·a: -'Abbr.  ballplayer  
21  Rank  4"1  Gave back  
23  Relative  49  Tavern  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


50 Burdensome 12 See 20 A 52 Different _ 13 Flit 56 Not genuine 22 Pro ­59 Not liberal 25 Drug weight 61 Charged 27 "The-and 
atom the Sea" 62 Branch 29 Concord 63 Philippine 31 Gusto 
sweetsop 32 Elbe trib­64 Indian utary 66 Butter's 33 Fair 
rival 34 Boom 67 Dumb one 35 English 68 English composer 
composer 36 Trinkets 69 Conserva-37 Dynamo 
tive 40 Evening 70 Gaelic love song 71 Slipknot 42 Feudal 
slave DOWN 45 Devoted 1 Helen's suitors 
lover · 48 Hoyden 2 Macaw 49 Equal: 3 On the comb. form 
wagon 51 She-bears: 4 Dinner Lat. check 53 Dialect 5 Goddess of 54 Fountain 
discord treats 6 Hard resin 55 Harden: var. 7 Nonprofes­56 Opening 
sional 57 Hawaiian 8 Unwilling seaport 9 Uncorrupted 58 Part of 
10 Hunting USA: abbr. expedition 60 At such a 11 Hawaiian time beach party 65 UN agcy. 
9/13/79


i-----rurrFarffirREc0~1
I ~ In the 100 Centet offets ~ 1 • 10%offon I EVERYTHING 
I

I I
with ID & coupon I RECORDS, TAPES, PARAPHANALIA ..1 
~1& Presents ~b ­
~'\,~ thursday 9/13 11:45-1 pm ~~ LaFortune Lunchtime Concert Featuring Doug Stringer 9-12 pm Open Stage Blues Night 
friday 9/14 9:30-10:30 Eric Barth & Wally T1mperman 
10:30 -? Magic wl.th Mark.Dav1s sat 9/15 .9-10 Dan Keusal 10~? Rich Prezfoso 
~ayear


UNIVERSITY HAIR TYLISTS 
FUll SERVICE UNISEX CENTER 
Boathouse nears com.pletion 
--------------------~----------~--~-----------------­
The Observer Thursday, September 13, 1979 
HAIR CUTIING SPECIAliSTS 
by Tn"cia Beaujean

8-5 Mon.-Sat. 
Ahnost a year after the

located in sa·din Hal1 
arson-lsniper incidents which occurred over-October break,


on Camp~s 
the Notre Dame boathouse is nearing completion. The struc­ture's wooden roof collapsed during last year's fire, damag­

Come follow me 
ing over $8000 worth of equip­

& I will give you 
ment and parts, according to rest 
Sailing Club President Don relaxation 
Condit. Condit explained that the 


prayer ~=~iii! 
Univesity approached the Sail­ing Club before renovation began and asked for ideas 

dealing with the boat house's ladded facilities will allow life­
rrconstructton. Members of the Sailing Club then met with engineers and architects and came up with plans., 
The future boathouse will retain the same walls, but the ct:iling will be higher due to the conversion from a two to a orie-s'tory building. Improved facilities will expapd the utility of the boathouse and Condit guards to work ('?!t of the boathouse. The building was originally used by the Univer­sity as an icehouse. 
Condit stated that at the time of the fire there were no boats 
· inside, but masts, sail racks, and other equipment had be··n melted. However, the Sailing Club now appears ready to enter the new season, begin­
noted the possibility ofinstalling ning with a re~atta this week­showers. end which will mvolve about 12 
During the summer months other universities from around tht> boathouse is utilized by the country according to faculty and alumni and the Condit. 
Concert Commissioner denies 
Grateful Dead rumor 
"We1ookedinto a variety of groups," Kelley said, "and the Grateful Dead would be a consideration.'' He stated, however, that the concert com­mission has not been approach­ed by any Grateful Dead pro­,moters, and that the commis­sion has not attempted to 
pursue the group. 
Joe Sassano, Assistant Dir­

ector of the ACC, also denied 
the rumor about the Grateful 
Dead. "We have had no contact with them," he stated. He added that it is possible that the Atlanta Rhythm section will appear at the ACC. 
Two concerts booked for this fall at the ACC included Styx on October 4, for which tickets are currently on sale, and for Kansas on October 19. 
Two concerts which have been scheduled for Stepan Center are Pat Metheny on Nov. 9, and Pure Prairie League onNov. 17. 
ND ·students invest in publishing company 
Nineteen Notre Dame men and women have invested in their own book publishing com­pany, Juniper Press, and will release a book shortly before the Christmas holiday. 
Leo Latz, a senior American Studies major and President of Juniper Press, is directing the entire operation of the com­pany. The Editor-in-Chief, Mike Shields, along with the editorial department heads Jim Minutolo, Tim Creagan and Tim Tedrick, is in charge of reviewing the several manu­scripts which have been sub­mitted to the company for consideration. 
According to Shields, the decision will be made by Sept. 
17, at which time the author will be contacted, a contract drawn up, and Juniper Press will begin to publish its new title. 
Juniper Press was estab­lished in 1976, and has pub­lished three books, Quick as a Dodo, Cleats, and Virgins and Martyrs, all written by mem bers of the Notre Dame com­munity. 
If anyone is intet"ested in submitting a manuscript for consideration, he should con­tact Jim Minutolo, Managing Editor (277-2652). 
Thirty-five dollar shares in Juniper Press may be pur­chased through Aileen Lavin, Business Manager (6944). 
Those interested in applying for the job of 
JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND CHAIRPERSON 
STOP IN OR CALL Student Activities 7308 by Friday~ Sept. 14th 
r----------------------------­
n.O.-smc llcensoo P•tots PR•vate COmme~c•at & lnst~ument Qateb mansms neeb€0 ~oR the 
new nO-smc tlYJnG aus 
call tony .con~o 8711 
~---~~---------------~----~ 
WEEKEND 
RETREAT 
PROGRAM 
SEPT.:U·U 

Ule Alter Birth,: Spirituality For Studenta 
R.v. William Toohey 
NCJ/••• u 

The R-d Of The 
a-rt'• ne.lre aw..John Dunne 
MOV.:JO·IB:.2 
Paepue Ye 'l'he WayOI The Lord Rev•.Jolm Fltza•ald 
l........_.lon: 

Campa. Mlnlltry Olllen Ubrlll')' And Badin M3f, Or 43'92 
OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
by jane Kirby 
Student Union Concert' Com­missioner Mike Kelley denied last night the rumor that the rock group The Grateful Dead will appear at the Notre Dame ACC this fall. 
... Council 
[continued from page 4] 

dollars a month to get the bus heading towards Campus View­1 think the morning shuttle is out,"she concluded. 
The off-campus newspaper, Off The Record, will be distri­buted next week, the council announced. They also started plans for this year's Mardi Gras Booth, which will be co-spon­sored with the Saint Mary's off-campus council. 
RIVER CITY RECORDS/ CELEBRATION/BELKIN 
Proudly Presents 


With Special Guest 
DICK CAPRI 

JEFF STURGES-Musical Director 
And 
THE ENGE-LETTES 

October 15 8:00p.m. 
Allen County Memorial Coliseum Ft. Wayne 
Tickets: $10.00 & S8.00 (Reserved) Tickets By Phon~: Memorial Coliseum Box Office (219) 482-1701 (Tickets must be picked up within 5 days of order) 
Tickets By Mail: Please send an enclosed ' 
self-addressed. stamped envelope with check made payable to Coliseum Ticket Office to: ENGLEBERT. Box 5157, FT. WAYNE. IN 46895 
Moil Order Ticket Orders will be accepted beginning September 17 Tickets will be Available At The Box Office beginning September 24 
• 
..... 


TllutSdat; Septembe( ~f, 1979-~e11 
[con_tintled from jHige 12] the final 36 holes of play in the ~illiam Burke ) f-The medaf­or two players from-the Open 
Notre Dame Open. ,hons carry the/ Notre Dame tha~ will .. help our · golf pro­goff team. "While the loss of The remaining holes will be insignia, and they ;:a;,te·.~nted gram." . · Tim (Saurs, last year's captain) played Thursday, Frida}' and Of?-plaques for the~Fe awar~ ' Th~ Qpc:n me'ans a iot,c,>f work will hurt, we have five guys on Saturday, and when all the wmners. ' :for 0 Sulhvan, but he doesn't
· d the team who have proven numbers have been totaled, the O'Sullivan had some· fmal 1seem to mind. ''I love running Lun grenthemselves." Lundgren a~ded players with the three low~st comments , about the Open. lthe tournament because the• • • that he feels Notre Dame has scores will receive beautiful "The 'i:o~t;n,mt!lt ,-s{oes not f.Wa."rds ~at Ipre~~J?-t t:<i the to~ a good shot at going to the medallions for their efforts~ serve as a tryout because I g«t three el,yers are 'P:rtce1ess,. an(J, NCAA tournament this year." The gold, silver, and bronze most of ,my players through the attltuc;les of t!'te coi'npetttors Right now, however, ] ohn medallions have been dona'ted recruiting. However, I'm are supenor. It lS an enjoya~ Lundgren's thoughts rest on for the past th~rteen years by always hopeful that I'll find one /event for everyone involved.' ' 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.. two days prior 
to the issue'in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.rn. to 5;00 p.m. All 
cla5sifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail. •
Classifieds 
Part time (3 nltes) and full time work
Notices 
available, all positions needed -evenings -Apply in person -Nicola's Restaurant, 809 N. Michigan St. Close to Campus-­Dishwasher, busboy, pizza maker,Used Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 
clean-up & supply person -(This Is9-7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Rd. 
· afternoons) Talk to Gina.
Niles. 683-2888 
Bicycle Touring Club organlzatlorw' naerl ride to Cleveland Fri. Call John 1210 meeting Sunday, September 16, 7:30 pn LaFortune Basement new members FORTRAN PROGRAMMER/ANALYST welcome! Participate in the debelopment and writing of applications programs In the GAY STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAME field of data base photo typesetting. The AND ST. MARY'S Information and position requires at least 2 years Referral P.O. Box 206 FORTRAN experience with skills at dealing with data mana9ement problems. Any PDP-11 or composition experience Is helpful. Salary is open. Send resume to: PO Box 570, South Bend, IN 46624.
IL~st & FOund 
Boar's Head Restaurant is now hiring full and part time busboys, dish washers,Lost: Little Caesar is missing! Zahm's cocktail waitresses and hostesses. Applynew plastic man was stolen Monday in person Monday through Fndaynight. The purloined article is.of great between 2and 4:30. Equal Opportunity
value personally and monetarilr. 
employer.
Information leading to Its location wil be 
rewarded. It was a gift, and we want it 
Wanted: reasonably-priced simple set ofback! 
golf clubs. I only need 5, 7, and 9 ironsThe Boyz 8897 and 1 and 3 woods. Call John at 1947, 3087, or 1003
Lost • one Texas lnst. Tl-55 calculator Sunday night or Monday. Still has Bookstore prlcetag on it!! Leave In Elec. office or call 1508 
For Sale 
Lost ajacket Illinois Benedictine College. Dark blue with white stripes on collar and wasteband. call 1204 
19n Kawasaki 100 -mint condition with lass than 400 miles -$500.00 Lost: One yellow and green shag rug -197'i Honda Super Sport 750 -also mint Reward 8145 
co1 Jtion with lass than 12,1100 miles ­
$1~100.00 
H• mats go with both bikes. May be sean the lobby of the bookstore. Need badly. 
Lost: 2 notebooks (org. Chern, Calc.) in 
01 1r weekend. Call 272-7857 and ask for Please call Mark 3368. 
B I. 

S 'UDENT/FACULTY BOOK SALE hall at Tues. dinner. Contains everything l brary Concourse September 13 -14 important that I have. Reward. 
I lost a maroon wallet in the south dining 
1J:OO am-5:00pm Sponsored by Friends Rod 6719 of the Library at N D 
75 Sclrocco -excellent condition; Many extras; $3250-287-1729
For Rent 
United Airlines 50 percent discount tix 
Tony 233-6208 · 
Newly Decorated House. close to Notre comics, new and old. DC, Marvel,
Dame, 4 Bedrooms. furnished, 111 E. Warren. Also Starlog, Future Life, etc. Navarre St. Call at Kagel Flower and Gift Discounts. 287-6920 evenings.Shop 233-2232 or 272-0994. 
Free Catalog: Avon jewelry, cosmeticS',Furnished country house, private, ten Christmas gifts for women, men, and minutes to campus. Ideal for two to six children. 287-6920 evenings.people. 277-3604 or 288-0955 
For sale -Sansui TU 9900 stereo tuner. Excellent condition. List $570. Sell $225. 
Campus View Apartment for rent--Call Ken Call Jim at 1008 
1758. Win a free trip for two to the NO/Miami game in TOKYO, Japan. A fifteen day vacation to the Orient for only $5.00. For 
ticket Info call Georgette 287-9628. 
Drawing Sept 20, 1979 
Wanted 
Wanted 1 GA or Student ticket for GA. For Sale -Moped -Need of Repair 
Tech. call MB 8060 or Dan 277-0333 Highest bid Notre Dame Credit Union ­4454 Ride needed to Cin.-Day. area this 
Friday. Tim 8164 75 mere Bobcat Wagon P/S, new steel radials, new brakes, mech sound. Very 
Need ride to Cincinnati or as close as good transportation 81 ,000 miles. Call possible to Miami University of Ohio, on Jack 287-2723 Sept. 14. Will shale expenses. Call Mary Kay at 8145 
Clean-up man needed at Corby's -6 
Tickets
morning per week-3 hours per day. Call 
Oscar at 233-0438 WANTED URGENTLY-2 tickets to the Notre Dame-Southern Cal game October
Need riders: to Philadelphia area, or pts. 
20. Call after 6:00 pm 615 790-0368 east. Leave Fri. Sept 14. Call Billy
234-()467 
Mucho Dinero for two GA USC tix -call Marc 8378
Wanted 8-trac deck call 283-1129 Will pay top$ for student or GA USC tix­
Wanted: SWIM COACH Concord age call Bill 3549 group AAU swim team needs swim coach 
for its year around program. Call I am going to Stomp on every squirrel I
219-875-6000 for further Information & see unless I get 8 Georgia Tech GA
Interview. 
. tickets and soon! (Sick, huh?) Call Crash at 8627Wllnted: Simple set of golf clubs. I only 
need 5, 7, and 9 iron and 1 and 3 wood. 
Desired: any 1USC ticket call Joe at 8192Looking for a reasonable price. . . call 
John at 1947, 3087, or 1003. 
Desperately need one USC ticket wi II pay any price. Call Paul 8451Need ride to Chicago this weekend. Can 
leave Fri. afternoon. Call Jane 7933 Need: 1 Michigan ticket. Uta 4-5236 
Need ride to U. of I. (Champaign) 
I'll pay good money for 2 GA to USCSeptember 21. Will share and/or 1tic to MSU. Please help. Tony­
~driving/expenses Mike 6758 or 6853 
1247 Desperately need USC tickets. Will pay your price. Call Lance 1027 

Want adate? I have 3sisters who need 3 tix to Georgia Tech and 1tic to USC Ga or student. 1205 -Joe. 
Someone please sell me 3 Georgia Tech GA's. Jenny 6968 
"Need 2So. Cal-ND tix. rich Uncle pays. Close to 50 yard. Call 6424." 
Need several GA Tickets for home games except USC and South Carolina Call Susan 2-4868 
Will trade 4 GA Michigan State tix for 2 Southern Cal GA tix. Call 232-6667 
Have to have 4 GA tickets for Michigan St. Call Rick 8698 
Desperately need 4 GA tickets to Michigan St. Call Greg 1523 
Need 2 tk:kets for any home football 
game; preferably Oct. 27. Will pay through nose. Please call 1978. . 
If I don't get 2' GA tix to ND-USC I can't go home till '82. Please help! 4-4008 
Need Mich. Tix. Call Tim or Nick 233-6249 
Desperate! Need two GA Michigan State tickets! can Jane 6372 
Desperately need four to six GA tickets for Michigan State, willing to pay$$$$$. Parents will disown me if I don't get them Call1002 or 1736. 
Money no object for 2 GA USC tix. Call Laryy at 232-0384 
Need fou·r GA South Carolina and/or one 
G. Tech ticket soon. 277-3782 nights. 
Need 2-4 tickets to Michigan game. Call 287-6942 anytime. Top dollar paid. 
Need Michigan State tixs. Big Bucks! call Stan 1878. 
Need 4 GA's for MSU. Will pay big bucks. Call Jeff 8764 
MUST get 2-8 tickets to any home game. Will pay! Call Louie SMC -4456 
Desperately need 5GA tix to Tennessee! Call John at 3656. 
Need 4GA tickets to MSU game for dying grandparents. Call Lori at 4-1-4o73 or Dan at 3322 
Need Southern Cal tickets. Will pay top dollar Call Joe after 10. 233-6024 
CASH FOR YOUR STASH I need tix for Mich, Purdue, MSU, Tech & USC. H~lp Mick 8212 • 
Urgently need 4 Purdue tickets. Big bucks. All Martie 232-5238 
Need 2 GA USC tickets. Call Tom 1222 
Need 2 GA's for USC will make deal 277-4267 
Please help me get 3 or 4 ND,Purdue tickets by this Friday. Thank you -I'll give a fair price. John 1209 
Will pay $60 for two adjacent USC tickets. Call Mark 1478 
Have 2 MSU GA's will trade for 2 Southern Cal GA's John 6339 277 Dillon 
for Sale: 4 U of M-N D football tlx [together]. Best offer. call 1-313-994-6029 or 1-313-764-1072. 
Will trade 4 GA's to Georgia Tech for 4 GA's to MSU Call Jeff 8764. 
Need 2GA tickets for USC game Call Bill 
8288 . 
Need 1 Georgia Tech ticket. Will pay!! phone 8634 
Need any amount of GA tix for MSU or USC. match any offer! 1845-Jeff 
I will do anything for 6 to 10 student cmd/or GA tix for Mich. St. and/or USC. Please call Steve -8696 soon! 
Need 2GA tickets for Mich. St. Wiil pay top dollar! Mike 8783 
Michigan State tickets needed! SA or GA call Paul: 1402 
Need 2-4 GA tickets for any home game.Dan 277-1318 
Desperately need 2GA tix to MSU game. Will pay good !. Call 4-4385. 
Need GA's and student tix to all home games. Call Beth 4-1-5710 or Kate 4-1-5220 
PURDUE TICKETS -I need 1 or 2 GA's 8782. [Purdue Is an away game for those who can't remember! , 
Baing Drafted -want to see last· football game before they ship me off to Cuba. Need two GA tix for Georgia Tach . CaiiJohn at 1947, 3087 or 1003 
Willing to give Almost anything for 3 _ GA tix to Michigan State game and any other home games! Call 5770 or 4571 (SMC) 
Money no object need 4 GA tickets for Georgia Tech or USC Call 4140 [SMC] 
Need one ticket to Tenn. Desperately!! call Mary Ann 4-1-4347 
Need 4 tix to USC Please call\ Cleth 41-4298 
Desperately need 2GA tix for MSU Call Jake 3180 
Need 2 student or GA tix for GeorgiaTech. Will pay !. Tom 3362. 
··----------­
Need 2 South Carolina tix. Will pay decent$$$! Call Rick 277-1598 
Mafia Family members coming in for Georgia Tech game. Make an offer -1 can't refuse. Need 2 GA tix. Call Little John at 1947, 3087 or 1003 ­
Personals 
·John, 

You are a very beautiful person and I 
like you very much. I wear my mother's 
underwear. 
SKfromSMC 

Lost, Dave Toma, "Super Cop" can be found at Carroll Hall (SMC) 8:00 Sept.17 no admission 
All you Minnesotans give Mike Sexton a call on his birthday today. 1883 
Kay, Happy Birthday!! Have a great day!! from 8th floor Grace 
Ed O'Malley: Hey superstar-How many girls are pounding on your door to give you TLC? 
To Gene Hackman's niece-Have a happy 18th birthday. Peter and Phil 
, Alee ­
Happy Birthday!! Lotsa luck with the 
girls and a stereo. INDEED!! Also Dan 
Holmes and "DJ" Dwyer! 
Jack& Bill 

To the "Thoughtful New Yorker" who found my wallet in the Chern. Eng. Bldy. I really appreciate your honesty and kindness. How about calling me at 6581 so I can thank you personally. 
Lisa's Birthday! Come on guys call her. SMC 4629 
End those gloomy ND nights! Two spectacular sophomores want to meet men of superior breeding and background. If you think you are qualified for the date of your life, Call luscious Teresa Palumbo, or voluptuous Christie Petersat6169-another listing of the Ryan dating service. 
Run-of-the-mill Domer Dates don't interest these ~iris, only "meaningful! relationships. ' Those two blond bombshells from 4th floor Lyons, Ellen Binkowski and Colleen Bronder are well worth the walk! Dlal7983. It's heaven on earth. 
The Ryan/Obrien Escort Service Cousin Patsy, 
Hope you do a real good job today ­nobody does It better! Will be up tD bOther you. 
panama Red 

P.S. I'm getting my green dye soon... 
Theresa Simmons 
Oh hey! Hope you survive from your vicious virus and have a great 20th! What you need is some good Florida Sun to party hearty-maybe this spring break, okay? 
Sclater Your Florida buddy and-mutual friend of TJ 
Gordi 

Welcome to SMC/ND -get ready to party & forget abOut bad ol' Purdue. Long live lizard livers! ­
Rocky Mt. Barking Spider 

Alcoholic tennis player needs pseudo­competition to preserve his sanity on weekends. SMC females preferred. Inquire at 3260. Ask for Eric. 
1) Gooneys are coming!! 
2)~t~h alucky Gooney -theyre magicallydeliCIOUS 
Bobby Young You are a real sweetheart. Thanks much!! Diane 
Attention! Blond Beauty! 
I met you last Wednesday (Sept. 5) at the XEROX machine in Memorial Library about 2:45pm You were with an Oriental 
, girlfriend. You were making copies of an article from Glamour Magazine for Freshman English Seminar class. Ironically, the article was about how men and women meet. ' I suggest we do just that, again, under different circumstances. Say, dinner? Your outstanding features? Curly shoulder-length blonde hair, gorgeous shape, eyes that kill, and a smile--well that smile! ' Call AI Pacino immediately, 1007. Who said romance can't begin with XEROX? 
Abolish sexual taboo! Read Friday'sscholastic 
Do sexual New Yorkers always have more fun? See Friday's scholastic. 
Mike Mitchell Good luck Friday with your knee examination. We'll be thinking of you. All our love, Lasagna & spaghetti 
Kel, 

You've got the most beautiful, muscular legs but what are your going to· do when winter arrives? 
Love, Kef..·' 

-------------------~~L 
Swish 

Just wanted to rRmlnd you that"l think you're the greatest. You always manage the right shots even though you're aSMC chick. 
I love you, George Gervln 

I will negotiate an entire padded seat student basketball ticket and cash for 4 USC FB tix. Call Donna 6782 
DP, Oh well, such is life. Another day, different life. 
m~l 

Dearest Brian C. on Hill: 
Where have you been all my life Surely not studying Architecture. Till me, am I wasting my time being ma,llly I hopelessly' and passionately in love wit ' yo'u? 
HELPM 
PLEAS 

Happy 18th to Lis VasquezManueiPeppell from the guys o the 9th 
START OFF ON THE RIGHT FOOT! 
-Establish your personal credential filer come tjl Senior Placement Orientation. Sign up at SMC Counseling and Careet: Development Center for any Qf ther following dates-Sept. 15, 19, 22, and 27. 
'It's theright way to begin. .· 

S~orts 

Thursday, September 13, 1979 -pa,ge 12 

Leopold emerges as silent leader 
by Frank LaGrotta game," he explains. "What question. A consistent three­· Sports Wn'ter plays they like to run, what year performer for Dan coverages we have that work Devine's forces, Leopold has Football games like Notre best against them, who my man logged 114 tackles from his Dame versus Michigan tend to is --things like that." outside linebacker spot. He get a little blown out of It is thoughts like these that was a starter in 1978 until ankle proportion. Media coverage, gets Bobby Leopold ready to and knee injuries forced him to ticket prices, fan reaction --all play. the sidelines, and he needs to are inflated for the so-called ''I get up for every game, but return only one more "big game." Sometimes it's all especially a game like this,'' he interception for a touchdown to a little crazy. admits. "I can remembear break the Notre Dame career 
Now,don't get me wrong. It when I was young and first record of three It is something is Notre Dame and they are started to play football. All you he thinks about but, as you playing Michigan. And sure, ever heard about were teams m_ight expect, isn't concerned ABC television will be there like Notre Dame, Michigan, With. along with 105,000 people -­Southern Cal. Nqw, for me to "It's in the back of myjust for effect, of course. But be a part of it all ... Yeah, I'd mind," he smiles. "I would still, it is only a football game. have to say that gets me love to break the record but it's No countries are in jeopardy, no excited. not my primary goal this 
lives are at stake. And it Linebacker coach George season. If It happens, fine, but might be wise to keep that in Kelly calls Leopold ''a silent the six points I would contribute mind. . .especially if you leader." to the team would be much happen to be playing in it. ''Bobby has a somewhat more important than any
Maybe N0tre Dame line­different approach to the personal record.'' backer, Bobby L-eopold has the game," reflects Kelly. "He A Sorin Hall resident after right approach. He's excited gets excited and mentally ready three years in Flanner, Leopold about the game, and he's ready to play, but he is so steady that likes to relax listening to some to play football, but he's he never shows his emotions." good music or llerhapskeeping everything in Kelly relates a comment watching television. H1s stereo perspective. Or, at least he's made recently by one of the plays softly as he talks about 
The strong play ofNotre Dame linebacker Bobby Leopold is a trying to. freshmen on the squad. this game and this season. 
''Before a football game, I try ''He told me that in all the "I believe this team is closer 
must zf th<· Ins..h hope to beat the Michigan Wolven.nes this 
to remain real calm," the 6-3 years he's been playing foot­than any team I've ever been
Saturday. 

senior points out. His ball, he's never seen a smarter, on," he offers. "Especially the responsibilities are many -­faster player than Bobby. And seniors. We want to win a more than enough for him to he thought his attitude was national championship this year 
Red Sox win 

think about. every bit as impressive as his because we started together"I basically try to concentrate ability." 
[continued on page 10]

on what I have to do during the About that there should be no ..-
Yaz notches 3000th hit 
BOSTON (AP) -Carl Yastt Y astrzemski thus became the zemski reached the 3,000 hit first American League player to plateau Wednesday night with reach the 3,000-hit, 400-home­
Lundgren grabs ND Open· lead 
an eighth-inning single and run plateaus in his career. Chuck Rainey pitched a six­Rainey, 6-5, allowed a Yankee hitter as the Boston Red Sox run in the second and one in the by Bill McCormick ~olf coach, expressed his feel­Bob Horak, who carded impres­
Sports Wn'ter 

beat the New York Yankees 9-2. eighth, but the Red Sox pound­mgs about the tournament. sive rounds of 68 and 69. After Y astrzemski walked, flied. out ed Catfish Hunter, 2-9, ·for ''The Open is an excellent Horad (137) are Mark Morr.l
The 1979 Notre Dame Open

deep to right and grounded out seven runs on nine hits before opportumty for the students to and Bob Gibson (143), Bdl 
twice before lashing his historic. he left in the fifth inning. is well underway, signalling the test their skills under regular McGuinness (144), and Tim
beginning of this year's golf
base hit to right field off Jim Rice belted his 37th tournament conditions. It also Sacheck and Jay Bryan (148). 
season. The Open is a 72-hole
reliever Jim Beattie. homer in the first inning, a affords the good players a Lundgren, the winner of last
tournament · which has been
Before his ground ball shot two-run shot, to get the Red Sox chance to prove their ability in a year's Notre Dame Open, had 
into right field past the glove of off to a fast start. Boston played annually since the early pressure situation." some thoughts about this year's 
1950s. It is open to all Notre
second baseman Willie Ran­scored three runs in the fourth O'Sullivan added that "the tournament. "Since I won last dolph, the Red Sox veteran had and three in the fifth on eight Dame students, both male and competition provided by the year's Open, I have the added been hitless in 11 at-bats since hits, including RBI singles by female, regardless of their pre­tournament is healthy in that it Incentive of wanting to defend
vious experience in golf. 
collecting his 2,999th Sunday Tim Poquette, Mike O'Berry helps the player who is highly my title. I had a real solid
Noel O'Sullivan, Notre Dame

against the Baltimore Orioles. and Rick Burleson. skilled as well as the player who summer, and I feel confident in lacks tournament experience.'' the way that I'm playing right One individual who does not now." John competed in about lack tournament experience is ten tournaments over the sum­
Notre Dame erupts to down Loyola 
senior John Lundgren. Lund­mer, including the highly-re­
gren, a Minnesota native and garded Western Amateur at the by Mark Perry consistently beat the weary the game, we are going to three-time letterman in golf at treacherous Point O'Woods Sports Editor Ramblers to the ball for the last score, because we have so Notre Dame, fired ·back-to-back Golf Course in Benton Harbor, 
30 minutes of the game. many fine shooters up front.'' scores of68 for a 36-hole total of Michigan. He won several 
Overcoming some sluggish Sami Kahale opened the Irish The Irish take to the road tor 136 and a one-stroke lead at the tournaments in Minnesota, and play in the first half, the Notre scoring spurt 15 minutes into the first time for their next two half-way point in the Open. In he finished third in the Minne­Dame soccer team exploded for the second half, as he dribbled games. Friday night they face those 36 holes, Lundgren had sota State Am.ateur. five second half goals to trounce around a defender and put the Dayton, where a crwod of over one eagle, seven birdies, and ) ohn seems confident about Loyola of Chicago, 6-0, at a ball into the net after a throw-in 12,000 is expected. Then on _only three bogeys. Right the upcoming season for the_ game played last night at by Wetterer. Sunday Notre Dame faces behind Lundgren is sophomore [Con#nued on page 11)Cartier Field. Joe Ciuni scored the next two Xavier. 
Although they outplayed goals for the Irish and also Loyola the entire game, the assisted on the fifth Irish goal, Irish could only dent the net scored by Mai. 
Meyers fails to pass rookie trials 
once in the first half, as they '') oe played really well failed to take advantage of most tonight,'' Hunter commented, INDIANAPOLIS (AP)--Ann Pacer Coach Bobby Leonard the 24-year-old sister of of their scoring chances. "He has some fine over-all Meyers has failed in her bid to held a private meeting. Milwaukee Bucks' forward 
Bill Wetterer scored the only skills, but his big problem is become the first woman to play Meyers participated in two-a­Dave Meyers would remain goal in the first stanza, as he consistency. If he can continue in the National Basketball day workouts with nine male with the club as a color booted in a cross by Bill to flay like he did tonight, he Association, Indiana Pacer players, who also were bidding commentator on its radio Murphy after an Irish throw-in. wil definitely help us.'' owner Sam Nassi said for an invitation to Friday's broadcasts. The goal was the first of the Hunter was also pleased with Wednesday night. training session. year for Notre Dame , since the the play of the ·other Irish Nassi revealed that Meyers, a Leonard said earlier he would Irish were shut out by Cincin-reserves. "The second team 5-foot-9, 140 pound guard who invite six or seven of the nine Italian sets record nati in .their only other game, played the way we wanted the was an All-American women's players to join the Pacer 1-0, last Sunday. . first team to a:ll night. If some player at UCLA, had failed to veterans. He originally in 200 meter dash . We were a ltttle sluggish in of the players keep performing survive the club's cut following planned to wotk with the the first half, '' Irish coach Rich with that intensity, we might three days of rookie camp at rookies through Thursday, but 
. Hunter admitted after the find some of them moving up." Butler University . he said on Wednesday the MEXICO CITY (AP) -Italy's game. "But die second half "We need to maintain the No formal announcement of camp would end after Pietro Mennea, who had said was definitely better. Everyone excellent level of play that we the decision that Meyers would We~nesday night's practice he is the best 200 meter runner was communicating well, and showed in the second half not be invited to the club's sess10n. in the world, proved it Wed-we played as well as we did in tonight,'' Hunter added. ''If training camp was made,' Meyers, who announced in nesday, smashing the world Sunday's game.'' we show soine intensit}' early in although one was expected Los Angeles that she has signed record with a clocking of 19.72 
The persistent Irish pressure the game, we should be able to later. Nassi reportedly told the with the Pacers, is assured a seconds at the World University fmatly netted results in the wear teams out. If we can decision ~o a photographer at. position with the club. Nassi Games. • the sess1on as Meyers and was reported to have said that .
~7~on~ t~alf; :~ N(~e ~~~· s~ontrol the ball fQr 70 percent of 
. .... 1 1 1 1 : ss:euau:s::;::su:eeseesee:c : . I 







