--~--­
, , , Alcohol Awareness -page 7 

c
VOL. XIII, NO. 111 1.-an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and sai.nt mary's WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 1979 

Gas bubble no longer poses threat to public 
HARRISBURG, Pa. (Ap) ·Federal officials said}"esterday that a troublesome gas bubble no longer poses any significant danger of explosion at the Three Mile Island nuclear plant, advancing efforts to bring the disable reactor to cold shutdown. 
Declarin~ ''the bubble has been eliminated for all practical purposes,' Harold Denton of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission told reporters, ''I think the danger point is considerably down from where it was a few days ago." 
''I would say there is no more bubble at the top of the core ... We no longer consider a hydrogen explosion a significant problem,'' he said .. ''The site remains stable ... the bubble poses no further significant safety problem." 
Meanwhile, speculation arose that the cripple reactor might have to be junked, but one NRC official said he doubted that. 
While Denton, President Carter's special representative at the scene, held the briefing, tension was easing in the weeklong crisis caused by the worst nuclear mishap in U.S. history. Civil defense official estimated that between 80,000 and 250,000 of the region's 950,000 people had temorarily pulled out, but thousand:; were returning yesterday and some schools were reopened. 
Asked when the emergency would be over at Three Mile Island, Denton sai.d, "We are right now developing and looking at plans of the most effective way to bring this reactor to a cold shutdown." He declined to predict exactly when that might be accomplished. 
Asked about concerns that some safety instruments have failed because of intense radiation in the reactor, Denton sai.d some sensors were lost bu,t most are redundant "and we have other means of getting the information." . 
Whatever su..:cess authorities have in achievin~ a cold shutdown, Denton said the plant's crippled No. 2 urut was not likely to be back in operation for 1 'a cons1derable ~eriod of time. 1 ' 
Denton said the temperature in the nuclear core remained stable at 280 degrees Fahrenheit. Robert Bernero, and NBC decontamination expert, arrived from 
Lucey discusses recent nt1clear 
Washington to assess · ways of eventually cleaning up the radiation in the facility· a task he sai.d would take :·many, many months, maybe a year or two.'' 
However Bernero was skeptical of suggestions on Capitol Hill that the reactor was so contaminated by radiation that it would have to be abandoned. "I doubt that it cannot be used again .. .I don't 

reactor crisis at Three Mile Island 
by Michael Onufrak within the reactor complex as error or some mechanical foul­know," he sai.d.
StaffReporter the reasons for the lengthy up" which caused the malfunc­He was responding to a comment by Sen. Gary Hart, D-Colo.,
time it will take before technt· tion. He added that stories chairman of the Senate Public Works subcommitee on nuclear
John W. Lucey, associate cians can safely examine the coming out of Harrisburg are professor of aerospace and reactor. still vague and often in coDflict. [Continued on page 6]mechanical engineenng, spoke Lucey stated that it is not yet before a crowd of approximate­"clear if it was an operator's [Continued on page 6) 
ly fifty people in the En­gineering building last night on the subject of nuclear reactors and the crisis which occurred at 


Chicago elects Bryne
Three Mile Island, near Harris­• • • burg, PA, last week. 

Lucey's talk was part of a meeting of the Notre Dame CHICAGO (AP) ·Jane Byrne lated her. ''In the words of percent of the Democratic vote publicly charged that Bilandic branch of the American Society captured the Chicago mayoralty Abraham Lincoln, "It hurts too and 71 percent of the indepen­helped "grease" the way for 
of Mechanical Engineers. yesterday and captivated its much to laugh, but I'm too big dent vote. approval of a taxicab fare citizenry in doing so • winning a to cry," Johnson said. "I have Mrs. Byrne narrowly increase. record percentage of the vote in no regrets, it was a great defeated Mayor Michael
Observer being elected the city's first experience.'' Bilandic, who had support from After her primary . victory, woman mayor. Johnson, an investment party regulars, in the Feb. 27 Mrs. Byrne sought to heal party ''It has been a great night for banker had never held elective primary. For her it was wounds. "We're going to have
insight Chicago,'' . she told more than office. revenge. to show, the world that what · 1, ">00 ecstatic supporrers in a An Associated Press-Bilandic had fired Mrs. happended here is like a fight in victory speech less than three WMAG-TV poll of 3,000 voters Byrne, a Daley protegee, from a the familY, where you always 
Utilizing detaifed slides of hours after the polls closed. showed Mrs. Byrne received 93 cabinet-level post after she make up, ' she said. ''And I hope that everybody
the nuclear facilities at here will always rememberOcomee, S.C., Lucey described what we started in the winter of the basics of how a nuclear '79. And I hope you'll never letreactor operates, what can hap­
, Daughter reflects on victory
pen if something goes wrong the spirit stop ever again.'' • •
Mrs. Byrne, 44, won by atnside a reactor, and what landslide, surpassing the markprobably happened at Three of more than 77 percent set in by Pam Degnan Johnson by collecting 81 per­could an aspiring mavorai can­
Mile Island. Lucey's .. Jides were effective 1975 set in 1975 by her mentor· StaffReporter cent of the vote to become the didate expect to win, being both for th1~ three-fold purpose the late Richard J. Daley, who first woman to be elected mayor unfunded and unstaffed? was elected mayor six times.
becausethe Ocomee reactor was CHICAGO · Spring crept into of Chicago. "I really didn't think my
With 2,979 of the city's 3,100 "It is very satisfying to
built by Babcock and Wilcox, South Bend yesterday. The mother had a chance," Kathy the same corporation which precincts or 96 percent of the fever struck again--spring know,'' Kathy said after learn­said yesterday. "She faced a lot designed the reactor which vote, in, Mrs. Byrne had fever, that is. Instead of ing of her mother's victory of opposition when she exposed malfunctioned at Three Mile 671,189 votes, or 82.1 percent, soaking in the rays, Kathy "that my mom has accom­the corruption in Bilandic's 
Island. to Republican Wallace John­Byrne guietly slipped away plished what she set out to do. I administration. Somehow 
·'Nobody knows precisely son's 131,261. Socialist Work­from Samt Mary's and drove wasn't surprised. After all, she thought he would steal the. how or why the crisis occurred. ers Party candidate Andrew into Chicago. She wanted to was the people's choice." (primary) election away.'' It will probably take several Pulley received 14,996 votes. see history in the making. A year ago at this time, Kathy said. she decided to 
months, maybe a year to find the Johnson told reporters in. On April 3, Kathy Bvrne Kathy firmly believed that the work for the Byrne campaign to answer," said Lucey, citing conceding that he had spoken watched her mother Jane Byrne name Jane Byrne would fall on radiation and excessive heat with Mrs. Byrne and congratu· wallop her "Oonent Wallace deaf ears in Chicago. How [Continued on page 9] 

................___....,..________________ 
-----.------------. ----------·-__________... ­
---·~ .....~----~~--------------~-------------­

News in brief 
Wednesday, April 4, 1979 -page 2 

Whirlpool lays -off 4, 600 
• • . Brico

as Teamster strike hits 
[Continued from page 5)

ST. JOSEPH, Mich. (AP)--Whirlpool Corp., one of the nation's largest manufacturers of home appliances, laid off uage. It is an international 4,600 workers yesterday as its flow of parts was cut off by the language, it is ttJ,e most united 
Teamster strike and lockout. Company officials said the total thing in the world." 
work force of 16,noo could be laid off by early next week if the Throughout her talk Brico 
strike continues. Erwin Kreter, manager of communications told stories that were set all 
for Whirlpool, said 1,000 workers in the St. Joseph division over the world. A great were laid off at the end of yesterday afternoon's shift. 
influence in her life was study­ing under Albert Schwitzer 10 Africa where she learned both


Underground cable fire 
from his humanity as well as his music. She mentioned she studied i,n Denver, San Fran­

causes blackouts in Boston 
cisco, New York and Austria. On the subject of teaching she explained, ''You can have

BOSTON (AP)--New manhole fires erupted in Boston's busy your own feelings about some­Back Bay district yesterday, knocking out electrical ~owe~ to thing but you must teach theskyscrapers, stores arid hundreds of homes for the third tune traditional things and then let your students decide what they want to focus on. You don't have to do everything but you must know it, you musn't be narrow-minded.'' Scholarship and studying is the only way to learn an art according to Brico. 
''The major thought I have base my life on is one sentence that I try to implant in every­body's heart: 'I shall not be deflected from my course."' 
Brico said thts with such conviction that the audience applauded. She then asked them to repeat it so they would remember it. Brico told the audience that the_post impor­

in 36 hours. Utility officials said the power could not be restored at least until nightfall. Hundreds of restaurants, apartments and other buddings lost power, and traffic was knotted by deadened intersection lights when the latest outage occurred at 10 a.m. About 12,000 utility company 

CCUM appoints Fagan 
customers-homes and businesses-also were without power, officials said. The latest outage occurred when three manholes burst into flames on Commonwealth Avenue, 
Harry Fagan, director of the about one hour after power was restored in the district. All 
Commtssion on Catholic the problems apparently stemmed from an underground 
Community Action for the Diocese of Cleveland, has beencable fire on Sunday. 
elected the ftrst lay chairman of the board of directors of the Catholic Committe on Urban


Weather. 
Ministry (CCUM). The appointment was announced by Dr. Helen

Periods of rain today, possibly mixed with snow by Volkomener, executive directorafternoon. Highs in the upper 30s to low 40s. Periods of of the Univer~!ty of Notresnow likely tonight. Lows around 30. Considerable Dame-base-d national network.
cloudiness tomorrow, windy and cold with a chance of show CCUM consists of more thanflurries. Highs near 40. 

9,000 individuals and organiza­tions involved in social minis­try.
s 
Fagan, who has served on CCUM's board for five years, 
succeeds Fr. Philip Murnion of 

12:15 
pm --MASS, fr. robert griff10, LA FORTIJNE BALLROOM 

12:15 
pm --SEMINAR, "enteropathogenic escherichia coli," de. tom jacks, GALVIN AUD 


1 pm --WOMEN'S OPPORTIJNITY WEEK, indiana women's caucus for art, STAPLETON LOUNGE SMC 
3 pm --SENIOR ARTS FESTIVAL, readings in poetry and prose, LIB. LOUNGE 
3:30 pm --LECTURE, "collective bargaining under the railway labor act," charles hopkins, jr., LIB AUD 
4 pm --COLLOQUIUM, dr. john gottman, u. of illinois, 200 HAGGAR HALL 
4:20pm--COLLOQUIUM, "1/f noise, fractals & music," dr. richard f. voss, 118 NIEUWLAND 
5:15pm--FASTER'S MASS, WALSH CHAPEL 
6:30 pm --MEETING, sailing club, 204 O'SHAG 
9:30pm--FILMS "dance and human history" and "trance & dance in bali," A-V THEATRE CCE 
7:30pm--SEMINAR, "recent developments regarding labor relattons in the railroad industry," charles hopkins, jr., 121 HAYES HEALY 
7:30pm--AMERICAN SCENE CULTURAL SERIES, james schellenbert, CARROLL HALL SMC 
8 pm --FILM, "premiya (the bonus)," WASHINGTON HAll 
8 pm ~ .. WOMEN'S OPPORTUNITY WEEK, poetry reading, SMC CLl1B HOUSE 
8 pm --SENIOR ARTS FESTIVAL, three plays-wakefield cycle, NAZZ 
~ 

8 pm ~-~CTURE, ''me,t,hodolo~ical solipsism as a research strategy 10 psychology, prof. Jerry fodor, BIOLOGY AUD 
8:15pm--CONCERT, notre dame trio, LIB. AUD. 
8:30 pm --SLIDE PRESENTATION, janet fish, NOTRE DAME ART GALLERY 
10 pm --SENIOR ARTS FESTIVAL, f10al party, lJNIVER­SI1YCLUB ­

• • . Alcohol 
[Continued from page 7] 
] ~Boards, and Social Commis­stoners. 
The third and fourth, meet­ings are open to the rest of the Notre Dame-S "tint Mary's Stu­dent Bod : and the rest of the community. The third meeting will be tomorrow night from 6:30-9:30 p.m. in the Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium, and the fourth and final session will be held Friday morning •from 8:30-11:30 a.m. in the Grace Hall Lounge. 
The Observer 
Night Editor: Beth Huffman Asst. Night Editor: Patsy Campbell Layout Staff: Doug Kreitz­berg Sports Layout: Mark Perry­Typists: Tricia Meehan, Nancy Moms, Paula Vernon, Katie Brehl Night Controller: Mardi Day Editor: Keith Melargno CoP.y Readers: Tim Joyce, Mike Onufrak Ad Layout: Davtd Wood, Flo O'Connell Photographer: Gate Mag ennis 
The Observer !USPS 598 9201 is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year !S10 per semester! from The Observer. P. 0. box 
0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In· diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Prus. All reproduction 
the Archdiocese ot New York. Praising the network's record of ' 'extraord!narr. lea~ership,' ' Fagan satd, The mtssion of CCUM remains extremely tant thing for them is to do what they want in life and be happy. 
clear--to  serve  those who  are  
serving  and  empowering  the  
people.''  

She said she was not a preacher, just a realist. An artist will do what they want at all costs she emphasized, noting musicians such as Wagner who was disowned by his family for being a musician. Brico thought it was tragic when parents disuade their children from doing what they wanted to do. 
After conducting only four to six concerts a year for many years Brico's life changed with a film documentation produced by Judy Collins recognizing her work as a conductor. Brico was grateful to Collins, a student of hers for seven years, who's determination to make the film made people more aware of her as a conductor. 
Brico at 78 still guest­conducts besides teaching piano, voice and conducting. Mter receiving a standing ova­tion from the audience Brico asked them to come up ·so she might shake their hands saying, "I like to know I have had at least a moment of personal contact ~ith my audience.'' 

SMC ORIENTATION '79 
Applications now being accepted for: 
-chairman  -Bil! Sister/Little Sister Chairman  
-Asst. chairman  -Tours Chairman  
-Off-campus chairperson  -General Committee workers  

-Publicity chairperson 
Applications available in the Student Activities Office ­166 LeMans -Deadline -Monday, April 9th. A lications wzll not be accepted after April 9th. 
Applications for sponsorship of Fall 1979 Movies now a'vailable in Student Union Office 
Completed applications must be returned by· 4 pm on Tuesday, April 10 
JUNIORS HD-SOOC Need hall & O.C. Reps fot Seniot Class Ttip to work this spting & next fall. by Thursday night 4/5 ND SMC Pat 8760 Julie 4796 Andy 1217 5728 

,. . .
c r--• .::i
• 


Blue Mantle • 
NEEDS: only a few select, brilliant, creative, walk on water type women 
E~ITOR, Asst. Editor, Copy Editor, Photography Eduor 
REQUIREMENTS: 
rel3:ted ye~~book experience, creative writing & destgn ~bthty, dediCation to fine professionalpublication 
REMUNERATION: stipend, practical work experience, management/ roduction skills 
• 
Applications available in the SMC Student Activities 0ffice ., 166 LeMans -DEADUNE 
Tuesday, April 17 

.
...
• 
.
'· 
" 

The Observer Wednesday, April 4, 1979 -page 3 
In second day of WOW 


Profs. describe won1en's roles 
by Ellen Buddy Saint Mary's Editor 

The second day of Women's Opportunity Week (WOW) began yesterday with a presen­tation entitled ''Fragmenta­tion,'' centering around women's identity and roles in contemporary society. The presentation was given by three Saint Mary's profesors: Penny Jameson, Psychology, Deanna Sokolowski, English and Carol Ann Carter, Art. 
Fricke speaks on importance of women in ancient art 
by Margie Brasstl Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Michele Fricke, Director of Moreau Gallery traced the por­trayal of women in the an of ancient civilizations. She illus­trated her talk, entitled "Women in Ancient Art", with slides of art from primitive Egyptian, Mycenean, Minoan and Greek civilizations. Her presentation was the second yesterday as part ·of the Women's Opportunity Week. 
Fricke spoke about the importance that woman were shown in ancient art due to their distinction as child bearers. Fertility.-symbols found all over Europe depicted women with exaggerated breasts and pregnant stomachs to show their importance. 
The role of women varied from Egypt, where the women played an influential role in government as queen, to the Myceneans, who had a matri­archal society, to the Minoans, who were partriarchal. In each society, however, according to Fricke, the role of women as the procreators gave them honor and distinction. Many of these civilizatons worshipped the idea of the Earth-Mother, she added. 
The earliest Egyptian art depicts women on an equal 
A slide presentation accom­panied by a dialogue between Jameson and Sokolowski opened the Quorum. All thr~e women worked together coor­dinating the :>!ides and the dialogue. It p: esented the life of woman beginning wi1h infancy and progressing through childhood into adoles­cence and womanhood. At this point the presentation took a more serious turn and looked at women as a wife, followed by motherhood and then becoming 
level as men. This changed under Ramses II, whose images are 60 feet high while the images of his wife barely reach his knees. Still later the only woman ruler of Egypt is pic­tured as a man, although it did not seem to bother the Egyp­tians to have a woman ruler, Fricke said. 
The first nude Jemale fi~ures are found in a civilization 10 the Agean Sea. These sculptures, which are also noted for their marble construction, depict the female with her arms crossed in the typical stance of a deity, again showing her distinction and importance. Males, on the other hand, are ~hown in ser­vant or musician poses. "You never see women in these servant poses," Fricke noted. The artwork of the Minoans depicts no difference between males and females, except in the darker shading of male .>kin tones. Both males and females are shown performing the same tasks, however. 
The Earth-Mother depiction is prominent a~ain in the Mycenean civdization in ancient Greece, Fricke noted. ''The facial features are not shown since it is not imJ;Jortant who it is, just what tt is," explained Fricke. 
.;.­
[Continued on page 4] 


.. 

Peek-a-boo ... I see you ... The football team held its first outdoor spn·ng practice yesterday as the coaches surveyed next ye<1r's squad. [Photo by Cate MagennisJ 
the working woman. This brought the chronological sequence to middle age, the feeling of being a nobody and on into old age. 
This aspect of the quorum was humorous, satirical and serious. The slides ranged from ma~azine advertisements to classtcal paintings. The dialouge included works by such women writers as Anne Sexton, Sylvia Plyth, Katherine Mansfield, Margaret Atwood and Marge Percy. 
Jameson's individual contri­bution to the presentation dis­cussed women with respect to psychology. She reviewed women's identity, models and the socialization process they experience in society. Ulti­mately, her main idea was the ''relationship between identity, roles, values and pathology." 
The second segment of the quorum was Sokolowski's pre­sentation which centered around women's sex roles in women's poetry. She briefly concentrated on Anne Sexton, a female poet who committed suicide four years ago. Like many female poets, Sexton's poems are dominated by the theme of' 'what it means to be a women and be in love.'' She continued on to say that ''love for a woman can be a painful rather than a joyous experience when she totally accepts the stereotypic male Ifemale' roles. '' 
Carol Ann Carter gave the quorum a personal touch by reading from her ·own journal over the past year. She realized "herself and power of self and loved what she saw." Carter displayed slides of her own work from the past ten years to the present, commenting on the 
'changes  in  her  are  as  she  
changed  as  a woman,  to  con­ 
clude the program.  

Buy Classifieds 
_ 

from 
The Observer 


St. Bat Staff Applicatio available 


In Room 315 Ad Bldg. until 5:00pm Fri. April 6 
Applications due 5:00pm 


n. April 9 Room 315 Ad Bldg. 
Positions available : *Bartenders *Bouncers *Woks *Disc Jockeys Open to all ND-SMC JUNIORS 
-----------------,
I · River City i 



1I Records 1I 
I 
II I 
I I
I 
I
1 I
1 I
I I
I 
I 

----------------~ 
If you've got the 
•
ttme, 
we've got 


the beer. 



South Bend's largest record 
I 
and tape Selection ! I 




r--------------~ I 
I $1.00 off! J 1 I coupon I I
L---------------I 
$1.00 off any album or tape with this coupon. Limit 
1 

one per person. Now through May 7. Not good on cut-outs, imports or sale items. Coupon must be I presented before purchase is rung into cash register. 
I 
•
ND/SMC checks acc'epted for up to $20.00 1 over purchase fllllOUnt

•
18,000 albums and tapes in stock!!! 1 e Couldn't get what you wanted from the 


1
Student Union? We'll cash your refund I checks!!! 
River City Records I 
50970 U.S. 31 North--3 miles north ofcampus 
1 
Open 10 to 10, 7 days a week--277-4242 

·---~-·-·~ ...... 



; . I
At Faculty Assembly 

Duggan appoints Duttnance 
by Ellen Buddy at age 65, they can be reap­
Saint Mary's Editor pointed on an annual basis. 
A unanimous vote by the 
Dr. John M. Duggan, Presi­Assembly also passed the deci­dent of Saint Mary's College sion to sponsor an Alumni announced the appointment of Reunion Recepti0n during I.anY Ourrnance a" the vice­Alumni Weekend. The faculty president for colle;~e relatiom. will not be responsible for the at ) c~terday's Faculty Assem­fundir\g or the work1 according 
bly. Durrance comes to Saint to Dr. Anthony Bla~k, faculty Mary's from Regis College in chairman. Denver. 
The final issue discussed and Duggan went on to explam voted on concerned an aspect of that this position is not to l•e 
confused with that of Dr. ! l William Hickey, vice-pre~ident .i. 
t. 1/

and dean of faculty. ' 'In no sense is this vice­
!.[ • .~Fricke

president an equal to Bill ! I Hickey,'' Dusgan said. · Dur­
: I 

rance~' positton involves C<ll­lege relations in an ·eK;ternal i [Continued. ,rnpage 31 
aspect. 11 . 
Rita (<><:<:iclv a<:<:ociate pro-i In· . Clas::,JC. I .<.. ge of fessor l historv:Hli, )uriced that' Greece, the female dropped the thl· annudl Alumni Phone-A" fertility-mother image. There Thon will begin . .ril 11. were two n:tain types of figures Faculty were asked to partici-expressed 10 G~eek ·art, one of pate in the fundraising. 1 the female, whtch was always 
The Assembly unanimously shown draped, and one of male voted to have the 1General youths, shown nude. Fricke Welfare Committee meet with explained that this was mainly the administration and discuss due to the fact that nude retirement programs. athletes working out in the Althougt professors must retire gymnasiums of Greece could 




ENGINEERS 
Federal Government agencies are involved in some of the most important technological work being done today....in energy fields, communi­cation, transportation, consumer protection, de­fense, exploring inner and outer space and the en­vironment. 
Some of the jobs are unique, with projects and facilities found nowhere else. Salaries are gaod, the work is interesting and there are exce11er')t op­portunities for advancement. 
Our nationwide network can get your name re­ferred to agencies in every part of the country. 
For information about best opportunities by 
speciality and location. send a coupon of your 
resume to Engineer Recruitment, Room 6A11. 
United States of America 
Office of Personnel Management 
Washington, D.C. 20415 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

•
. -.
.• .• 
City State Zip
• ~~ •• Degree level and Engineering specialty • 
• Univ. Col. Yr. Grad. • 
• Geographic Preference (a) • 
• ~.= • 

the 'tank! and tenure process. Accqrding to Black, a clause has 'been introduced to disclose to the rejected appointee which cooj.mittee had rejected his recommendation. This clause was defeated. 
As it now stands, the ap~ointee is informed only that the irecommendation has been rej~ted. In the last five years, ordYr two out of 27 recommenda­tiqnp have been rejected. 

I ;, 
ehs!illy be/ used as models,while the same was not true W,ith wom~n. 
\Later ~rt used the wet dra­pery tecf1llique to depict the female form, but her body still remained clothed. When Greek atitists ftnally began to sculp­ture women nudes, they were dt{>icted in a self-conscioliS adtttude, Fricke said. 
1Fricke's presentation induded background on the mythology,. religion, and ~overnment of the various civil­Izations whe discussed. The slides included p~ intings, sculpture and afchitecwre. 
For various corps 

Jesuits priests seek volunteers 
For those in Nome, Alaska, their efforts moved into the the day may begin with weather Indian reservations, into the reports over radio. station inner city, working with both KNOM. In many of the EastetQ young and old. cities days often start with In the mid 70's, the Corps walks through Skid Row or the expanded further east, and Inner City. Teaching classes to today, nearly sixty ofJVC's 250 Native American children on volunteers serve in the Midwest reservations in Arizona or Mon­and East regions. tana might be the daily tasks of What does "being a volun­others. teer'' entail? A one-year 
All of these activities are commitment is asked, serving performed by members of the from August to August. Volun­] esuit Volunteer Corps, a lay teers receive room and board, organization composed gen•'ral­health insurance, a ticket.home ly ofyoung adults, often college at the end of the year, and a $50 graduates. Begun in Alaska 10 per month stipend for personal 1956 by Jesuit priests and expenses. As an experience, brothers, the Corps, then as many claim their year in the now, was designed to work with Corps is one of the finest, most the dispossessed, the power­demanding years of their lives. l~:ss, those people whom the And, while many volunteers are various systems could not deal not Catholic, Christian motiva­with and find a niche for. tion is one the attributes looked 
In the la~e 60's and early for in volunteers. 70's, the Jesuit Volunteer Most volunteers live together Corps expanded into California, in a community setting, whe­the northwest srates, even into ther in a house, a school dorm, eastern Montana No longer or a parish building. Meals are were volunteers working just cooked and shared, as are one's with Eskimos and generally daily experiences. with children, but The work of volunteers is as varied as the places and people involved. Teachers and nurses are needed, as well as people to organize communities, work ­in sktd rows, alcohol centers, food and job coups, and radio station, to name but a few of the positions. 
Anyonet.interested in further information about the Jesuit Volunteer Corp should contact the area office supervising one of the four regions. 
JVC:Northwest (503) 228-2457 
Box 3928 
Portland, Oregon 97208 
JVC:California1Southwest 
(415) 465-'i016 
920 Peralta St. 
Oakland, California 94607 
JVC:East (215) 232-0300 
Eighteenth and Thompson Sts. 
Phdadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19121 
JVC:Midwest (216) 961-02/0 
3601 Whitman St. 
Cleveland, Ohi'o 44113 
Notre Dame Concert Series sponsors Piano Trio recital 
The Notre Dame Piano Trio will appear in recital at 8: 15 
p.m. tonight in the Library Auditorium. An event from the Notre Dame Concert Series, the recital is open to the public without charge. 
The recital program features. the premiere performance of piece written for the Notre Dame Piano Trio by Prof. Ethan Haimo ofthe Notre Dame music faculty. 
The members of the Trio, Adrian Bryttan, violin; Deborah Davis, cello; and William Cerny, piano; are full time faculty members in the Notre Dame Music Department. 
Bryttan and Davis are principals of their respective sections in the South Bend Symfhony, and Cerny is chairman o the Notre Dame Music Department. 

--~~------------~----------------------------------------------------·---~­
..--------~---... -_.:_::..,;,,;;fi:'::;;:-•-=-.,;.·..,;::.,;;::_-_;. ./#!"'--.---_,... _____------:-----------------~.... --::-'-:*..~~--------.. ----------· -...... ___,.._,.. ___ .. -· -----·-­
The Observer 
Atonia Brico speaks at SMC concerning -wolllen conductors 
by Margie Brassil being a tonductor. Speaking of her love for 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor "Conducting was the last conducting, Brico described it 
stronghold before prejudices. I in terms of, ''a human pallet 
In 1934 while conducting 9 would war,L co do the same with all the colors here and women musicians Atonia Brico thing but under different cir­there and everywhere. And you declared, "If 9 women can play cumstances.'' create a living picture out of it. together why not 90?" Her Brico spoke of her years as a What makes music so utterly comment reached the front student by giving anecdotes fascinating is that it can flow page of the New York Times about sneaking into rehearsals through your fingers like water. and despite critics who said she and concerts hiding under You can never hold on to a would never find 100 women to chairsandseats. In one particu­phrase in music, it can only be play in a full orchestra Antonia lar incident when she attended enjoyed in retrospect or in Brico proved that women could a concert ~iven by th ~ pianist anticipation.'' play every instrument in the Paderewskt she knew before­''A good orchestra depends orchestra and opened a new hand that her seat was not in a on the quality of its players,'' field for all women. good position to watch his she answered when asked if 
Brico, the first woman cond­hands as he played. She some orchestras are easier to uctor of the Berlin Philharmonic brought a camp stool with her conduct than others. She went Orchestra spoke last night at and planted Jt in the front on to list the various orchestras Saint Mary s as the keynote center aisle. A colleague of she has conducted all over the speaker in the Women's Oppor­Paderewski's, noting her dedi­world. tunity Week. She began her cation, offered her a scholar­"Music doesn't need a lang· talk by taking questions from ship for a year to study in New 
[Continued on page 2]

the audience, speaking a little York. about her life as a conductor 


--~--~---~~~·-------.-------~--~----------------..... 
\ 


Guess what? This sculpture is displayed outside O'Shaughnessy Hall. [Photo by Cate Magenms] 
• • • Lucey 
[Continued from page 1] 
Whife Lucey admitted he "wouldn't recommend pitching a tent on the edge of Three Mile Island," he did say he "wouldn't hesitate to move to Harrisburg if the pay was right.'' 
Commenting on the evacua­tion of }?regnant women and small children from the Harris­burg area following the crisis last week, Lucey said that this was the result of the possibility of a radiation leak from iodine, xenon and krypton contained within the malfunctioning reac­tor. 
Lucey said this type of radia­tion is most susceptible to ''rapidly dividing tissue'' which is prominent in the fetus and in the very young. Lucey noted that this did not occur, and the only people who have been exposed to radiation as a result of the mishap were four of the plant's technicians. 
These technicians will return to a safe radiation level if they remain unexposed to any fur­ther radiation for the next year. 
, Alluding to possible conse­quences for the development of nuclear energy in this country, Lucey noted that several manu­facturers of nuclear reactors have already seen their stock reach a 52-week low on the New York exchange. There have also been many demonstrations and anti-nuclear rallies not only in this country, but thorughout 
the world. 
LuLey mentioned that Bab­cock and Wilcox have several other similar nuclear reactors around the country and one immediate consequence of the Three Mile Island crisis ''could be restrictions at these plants.'' Babcock and Wilcox P.lants are­
located in Russellvlile, AR.; 
Ocomee, S.C.; outside of Sacra­
mento, CA.; and near Toledo, 
OH. 
Lucey emphasized that there has been no exposure of dan­gerous radiation levels to the public and agreed that it may have been a good thing that the crisis occurred before many more similar reactors are in operation . 

BE RECONCILED WITH YOUR PARENTS 


an 
Ci!n)PUS
m1n1stry 


FIFTH 
WEEK IN LENT 

''Between experiencing and having experienced--the mom­ent when the experience yields its last secrets. A moment we only ~is~over is already past when cracks ~nd stains appear, the gtldmg flakes off, and we wonder what tt was that once so attracted us." 
''Your position never gives you the right to command. It only imp?ses on you the duty of so living your life that others can recetve your orders without being humiliated.'' 
SUGGESTIONS: This is letter-writing week. Even if you call home, surprise your parents and send a letter also. Compliment them; thank them. Attend an evening liturgy in your hall. Offer your intentions for your parents: Buy your ~randpa~ents some Notre Dame gift/souvenir. Show an Interest tn one of your profs, as a parent, and ask about his/her family and home experiences. Listen to Cat Stevens: FATHER & SON. Listen to Crosby, Stills and Nash: TEACH YOUR CHILDREN. Listen to Jackson Browne: DADDY'S TUNE. 
. . . Gas bubble 
[Continued from page 1) 
regulation, that the plant might become' a $1 billion mausoleum" ­more costly to rel'air than it was to build. That figure, however, applies to the enure facility which includes a second, undamaged reactor. 
Rep. Morris K. Udall, D-Ariz., the House energy subcommittee chairman, called Hart's comment "just speculation." But Udall said contamination in the reactor building was "so bad it will be months before any possible cleanup can begin, if indeed a cleanup is possible." 
Despite earlier claims by officials that the chance of a core melt-down had never been more than slight, Udall said after a White House briefing: "It was a very close calL We were very close to a real disaster.'' 
At the plant, technicians working at control panels sought to maintain shrinkage of the hydrogen bubble, which has blocked efforts to reharness the wildcat reactor. With the bubble gone, ._ they could proceed with a cold shutdown -bringing the reactor's temperature down to apoint at which it would no longer be capable of breaking loose. 
Monitors showed the bubble was still being reduced and emissions of radiation aplJarently had eased, NRC spokesman Jim Hanchett said. 
The two-fold process involved drawing hydrogen from the bubble and defusing it into cool water to release carbon dioxide, plus use of a "hydrogen recombiner" encased in lead bricks, which blends hydrogen and oxygen to form water, further drawing gas from the bubble trapped atop the reactor. 
Evacuation plans w_ere being held in abeyance over the 1,200-square-mile area covering four counties. "But we're not letting our guard down," said John Minnich, chairman of the Dauphin County commission. 
Police maintained extra patrols to prevent looting of property temporarily abandoned by owners. Sheriff William Livingston said he had received one or two reports of looting, but they were "nothing special." 
In Middletown, the city closest to the plant, Mayor Robert Reid said he had given his police instructions that ''if they see any looters, shoot them." 
Gov. Dick Thornburgh said state and federal analysts had found no threat of contamination in milk produced in the region around Three Mile Island. Tests from 22 dairy farms, he said, showed levels of radioactive iodine at 11 to 46 picocuries per liter -far below the 12,000 picocuries at which the government recommends protective steps. Based on the figures, ThornhW"gh said, "I can say there is no present danger to consumers from milk produced in thts area." 
While pre-school children and pregnant women remained at least five miles from the plant, Catholic schools reopened yesterday Jm.d public schools beyond the five-mile circle were to reopen today. 

administration of either institution.
_The Observer_ Editorial Board
The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Features Editor ...... _Chris Stewart represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor ....... -Doug Christian 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor. . . . ... Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ..... K. ConnellyThe Observer is ar. independent 
their authors. Column span• is avail­Executive-News Ediror ....Mike Lewis Business Manager ..... Steve Odland newspaper published by students of able to all members of the community, News Ediror ............ Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan rhe Untversity of Notre Dame and 
and the free expression of varying News Editor .......... Mike Shields Saint Mary's College. Ir does not opinions on campus, through letters, is Saint Mary's Ediror ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager . _....Bob Rudynecessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Sports Ediror ...........Mark Perry Controller ........ _.. John Tucker 
l ' 
r:. 

__... ----po· 
. -•. 

The Observer Wednesday, April 4, 1979 -page 7 
In meeting with Roche 


Ne-w HPC discusses issues 

by Azleen Lavin StaffReporter 

The HPC met last night in St. Ed's Hall for the first time with all newly elected presidents in attendance. It was announced that a new chairman for the Council will be elected at next week's dinner-me,.ttng at 
"Eddie's' for both the new and old presidents. 
Student Body Vice President Bill Vita announced his and Student Body President Bill Roche's intention to go to each hall's council meeting at some time during the semester to facilitate better communication. 
"We have heard complaints that all Student Body Presi­dents and Vice Presidents do is sit up in an office and that they don't stay in touch with the halls," explained Vita. 
Jim Jones, a representative for InPiRG appealed to the HPC to try and get an endorsement from the Council before it takes it~ propo"ial for the research group before tht noa rd of Trustees in Mw. "lnPIRG is a student-directed, :..u.:lent­funded, non-profit corportion. The basic value of lnPIRG is to allow stud,·nts to u"e rhe know­ledge learned in the classroom and apply it to the real world," explatned ] ones. 
The hall presidents were asked to bring the endorsement before their hall councils for approval. 

The HPC was also presented with the final proposal of the Board of Commissioners for amendment to the constituti.on of the student government which covers 24 different topics. The amendment needs 
approval  by  2I 3  of  the  hall  
councils  before  it  can  be  
adopted.  

The meeting ended after a discussion about hall Food Sales. Student Affairs Director ] ohn Reid contacted HPC Chairman Chuck Delgrande in response to a meeting held by Food Sales' managers in which the possibility of overriding Srudent Affair's decision to ban all non-food products from food sales was discussed. 
Reid asked DelGrande to inform the halls that if they go ahead and offer non-food items without going through official channels, they are risking losing the hall's concession stand for next fall and even the closing of Food Sales tn their 

Tab takes a rest from studying_ and naps in the spn·ng sun. 
weather mzght no: be cooperatzve ... snow. [Photo by Ca:e Magennis] 


Crowley to present lecture series 
TXT k

fi.Or A leoh0 l AWareneSS t't' ee ­
by Tim Joyce Senior StaffReporter 
Jim Crowley, Educational Consultant at the Johnson Insti­tute in Minneapolis, will pre­sent a series of lectures and presentations regarding chemi­cal dependency this week as parr of Alcohol Awareness Week. Crowley will speak to studC'nts, faculty, and inte­rested persons on alcohol usage and abuse and how the univer· sity setting promotes thes< actions. 
Peggy Cronin, alcohol and drug counselor at Notre Dame,. said that this year she wanted to do something different for Alcohol Awarenesr, Week. ''The idea r.ame out of a series of discussions I have had with small groups of students,'' Cronin stated. 
''The students were con­cerned with helping their fellow students and finally they asked, 'How can we do this better?' After about three or four months of tossing the idea around, we decided to ask Jim Crowley to come and speak,'' Cronin related. 
Cronin first came in contact with Crowley during a trip to the Johnson Institute. "He impressed me as someone who was really concerned with the issue," Cronin said. She then got in touch with Crowley and asked if he would come to Notre Dame. 
'') im Crowley is interested in speaking to everybody about this issue of chemical depen dency. He wants to staq at the top (i.e. administrators) and hall. 
SBP Roche will meet with 
Food Sales managers and hall 
presidents 'to draw up a formal 
proposal before meeting with 
Reid for further discussion. 
Artist Fish to speak at ND 
] anet Fish, the international­ly prominent artist from New York City, will be visiting the University today and tomorrow as parr of the visiting artist program. A slide-lecture, open to the public without charge, is scheduled for 8:30p.m. tonight in the Art Gallery. 
A specialist in photo-realism, Miss Fish was a visiting artist­in-residence during the 1978 Summer Session at Notre Dame. Her pastels, drawings and still-life arrangements on depression glass have bec.:n fea­tured in several exhibits across the nation, most recently at the 
Miller Gallery in New York. 
Sorry Tab, but tomorrow's 
then speak to the students," llll•••2•n•d-fl•o•o•r•Liilailfilolilrtlllllilu•nlile•oillrlliciaiiillilil77il5iii7•­
Cmnin explained. 
The theme of the seminar will be the role of the college in contributing to chemical depen­dency--how it happens, h1)W it can be responsibly faced. and the alternatives to it. 
The first of the sessions will take place tomorrow fron' 8:30­11:.30 a.m. in the Library \udi­torium. This session is mainly for Administrative personnel, department heads, rectors, student leaders, and faculty and staff employees. 
The second session will be in the afternoon, from 1: 30-4:30 p.m., also in the Library Audi­torium. This session will be mainly for student leaders, R.A.'s, hall presidents, 
[Continued on page 2] 

Cotbys,~~~~ 
Wednesday April 4 2 cans of Lite for Sl.OO 8 pm till closing 


~Hey Lucky You!!! 1~h~ ~tudent Union Social 
Commission rs now taking applications fot positions next yeat 

Applications available for: 
Assistant Com missioners Nazz Director Special Events Coordinator 

Publicity ann others Applications available in S.U. Offices 
Applications now available for 



Mardi Gras Chairman 
Pick up applications April 4 -9 
at S. tJ. office 9 -5 Return applications by April 11 
Interviews April 12 & 13 ~· Any questions, call 7757 ~ 


-------~-----------------------­

, I 

' 
f 

~­

r 
APPLY NOW EDITORIAL POSITIONS ate now open on 
The 1980 Dome yeatbook. No Expetience Necessary. Candidates especially needed fot Bualneu managet and Seniota Edltot call 7524 or 3136 before A til 5 

by Mary Angela Shannon 
This summer, Saint Mary's College will introduce a new summer program in Italian Studies. The program, based in Rome, Italy, will begin July 8, and end August 10. 
The program offers fourteen courses in Italian civilization, language, and literature. The courses offered will benefit the beginning or advanced student. Students from any college or university, as well as any interested adults, may partict­pate in this program. 
The program will be a balance between lectures in the class­room as well as on-site lectures in Rome and other cities located in southern, central, and north­
-ern Italy. All participants will depart from New York's Kennedy Air­-port on a regularly scheduled flight to Rome on July 8. Arrival . in. Rome will be the morning of July 9. One of the directors of the program will be at the ~ort to greet the newly arrtved group. ThroughoutJuly there will be daily tours to museums, churches, and historic sites in . Rome and surrounding areas such as the Forum, catacombs, and St. Peter's Basilica. Two special trips are included in the cost of the program. A three day southern trtp will take the group to Naples, Caserta, Pompeii, Amal.fi, Paesteum, and -Capri. A northern and central Italy trip lastinB' six days will take the partictpants to Florence, Bologna, Ravenna, 

campus 


'Be Reconciled' 
miniStry 

Lenten 




Penance Service 
; ~ .,: ' Bishop William McManus .. .,._ ·celebrant 
) 

Wed. April 4th ,· lOpm Sacred Heart Church 
Saint Mary's will introduce new-sutnmer Rome program 
Ferrarra, Padova, Venice, Verona, Vicenza, and Modena. 
The courses offered consist of Italian and conversation and reading for the beginning, intermediate, or advanced stu­dent. There will also be Italian literature courses taught in Italian and an Italian literature course tau~ht in English. 
An art history course taught in English and optional lectures and tours will also be offered. The courses . are taught by faculty members frpm the St. Mary's Rome Pro~ram and from the St. Marys College home campus. The classroom building, located at Largo Argentina, is in the heart of historical Rome. 
Credits earned during the St. Mary's Summer Program in Italian Studies may range from 0-6 semeSter hours of credit. The cost pei·credit hour is $60. It is payable to the St. Mary's Business · office and is due before July 7, 1979. 
The cost for the . summer program is $14n. This cost mcludes air travel to and from New York (to and from Chicago is $1535), all program· travel within Italy, centrilly located living accomodations, and all daily meals~ Apart from per­sonal expenses, an amount of less than $25 will be needed for city bus · transportation, museum entrance fees, airpon transfers; and departure tax. 

A $100 deposit will secure a place for the student in the Summer Program in Italian Studies. This is due by May 
15. The total program fee will have to be paid by June 1, 1979. 
Coordinators for the program are Dr. Pietro Checca, a mem­ber of the St. Mary's Modern Language Department~ Portia Spanu, Associate Dir~ctor of the St. Mary's Rome Pro_gram, and Carmela Merola, a faculty member of the St. Mary's Rome Program. 
Accordins to Dr. Checca, although thts is the first year for the St. Mary's Summer Pro­gram in Italian Studies, the program is headed by very experienced people. Both Merola and Spanu are currently involved in the St.. Mary's Rome Program. 
Those interested may contact Prof. Pietro Checca, Room 166 Regina, campus phone number 284-4900, for fuither informa­tion and an application. 
According to Prof. Checca, this. program promises to be a very exciting an~ unforgetable experience. The program may benefit and interest all those who participate. Even those not interested in the Italian language will enjoy the pro­gram since the history and culture of Italy are strongly incorporated into the program. 
C&CDC to sponsor family workshop for student couples 
by Mary Beth Connor yet silent expectations that will be enormously powerful forces in their longterm relationship," 
The Saint Mary's Counseling  she said.  
and Career Development Cen­ The workshop is open to  
ter will sponsor a workshop for  couples of both campuses.  
couples entitled "Understand­ Those interested should call the  
ing the Family: His and Hers,"  C&CDC to register.  
Sunday from 2 to 4 pm. in  
Stapleton lounge, LeMans Hall.  
The workshop will be con­ducted by Pat McGinn, director  Enrollment  
of the C&CDC, who is an  
experienced family and marri­age counselor, wife and  .figures 
mother.  
The workshop ''will consist of exercises that couples will do  stand highest  
together-in an effort to explore  
the roles, rules, myths, values,  
and patterns of behavior that  Enrollment for the spring  
each one brings into the rela­ semester at Notre Dame stands  
tion~hi~ from ~s or her ~wn  at 8,612 the highest in the  
family, ' accordtng to McGtnn.  history of the 137-year old  
"It is designed to hel~  institution.  
couples identify the influential,  Enrolled in the four under­ 
graduate colleges and the  
Freshman Year program are  
Burns  5,188 men and 1,568 women. There are 1,255 men and 601  
to act as  women in the Graduate School, the Law School, and the M.B.A. program, resulting in an overall  
Festival finale  total of 6,443 men and 2,169 women.  
'  Arts and Letters led all  
Jethro Burns, ''the world's  colleges in enrollment with  
greatest mandolinist,'' will  1,690 followed by 1,632 in  
close out the Collegiate Jazz  Freshman Year, 1,542 in Bus­ 
Festival with country swin~/  iness Administration, 1,036 in  
jazz Saturday night, April 7 tn  Engineering and 856 :in Sci­ 
Stepan Center at 11:30 p.m.  ence.  
Renowned for his wild pranks  There are 196 undergrad­ 
and riffs, Jethro has recorded  uates st~dying_at overse~s cam­ 
over 60 albums, with Homer  puses, tncludtng 77 1ll two  
and Jethro, Steve Goodman,  Rome programs; 44 in, Inns­ 
and, recently1 ·witll David Bris­ brock, Austria; 42 in Angers,  
man, Shelley Manne and Ray  France; 10 in Dublin, lieland;  
Brown.  15 in Tokyo, and 8 in Mexico  
Jethro's combo of Chicago  City. Thirty-three members of  
musiciians will consist of two  the Law School's second-year  
mandolins, electric bass and  class are enrolled in the London  
guitar.  program.  

., 
..~~:r.' . 
(Confessors available following service)/)' 
,((ljil!!!!§il 

a c 


The Observer Wednesday, April 4, 1979 -page 9 



Dean Roem.er stresses danger of false fire alarnis ~in dorm.s 
by jane Kirby 

There were 18 fire alarms pulled on campus in March, of which 10 were false alarms, ) ack Bland, Director of Fire Safety reported yesterday. 
The series of prank alarms has come to the attention of Dean of Student James Roemer, who, while admitting that the number of false alarms is not unusually high. for a campus community where stu­dents are allowed to drink, is nonetheless worried about the situation. 
Both. Bland and Roemer emphasized the inconvenience to the stude.nt firemen who must respond to each alarm, and to the other residents and neighbors of the hall. Most imponanrly, both Bland and Roemer fear that in the future residents will not respond to a genuine alarm, believing it to be just another prank. 
Bland nofed that although 
.. Daughter 
[Continued from page 1] 

gain experience. She worked in positions that ranged fwm ''gofer'' to press secretary. Through this work, .Kathy said she realized that Byrne could successfully inrruduce honesty and openness to Chicago poli­
tics. 
"In last year's Fourth of July parade, my mother marched and what I saw was unbeliev­able. People everywhere were running from their homes, shouting 'We want Byrne.' I guess that's when I realized she could become Chicago's next mayor," she said. 
Kathy emphasized that the Byrne campaign did not affect her personal life. "Granted, when I go home, it's strange to see guards surrounding the house, but you ~et used to it,' ' she said. "She s been at it so long that it's not a personal thing anymore. 
A Government-Sociology major, Kathy describes her efforts in the campaign as a ''valuable learning experi­ence." She envisions a career in criminal justice, and denies that she will follow in her mother's footsteps. 
"Sometimes I have thoughts of entering politics, but they go as quickly as they come," she said. "It's just too much hassle to run for something. I'd rather stay in the background.'' 
Kathy expressed appreci­ation of the Saint Mary's admi­nistration, saying, "My teachers were really under­standing when I had to skip classes to help out my mom. But don't misunderstand me, I didn't receive any special con­sideration. They were as fair to me as to any other student.'' 
Kathy reflected on her unu­sual semester, saying, "I could have skipped the semester and joined the campaign, but I've always looked forward to senior year. There was no way I was going,. to miss my last weeks here. 
Kathy Byrne did set to see history made. Last mght at the Ambassador Hotel the ~ople of Chica~o welcomed theu new mayor··) ane Byrne. 

<JffelJ..;,·r-. ·•" '"' ar&d rhrouglt-. out the campu.. Lp;r y~ar the most alarms were,. set off in Flanner, Grace, ~oly Cross, and Sorin Halls. He added that none of the womeQ's dorms or St. Ed's Hall had apy pulled. Roemer expressep great con­cern for student's 1safety. He cit.ed instances of ~1ve serious 
as ·;tudents seem to think. Roemer stressed that if he ever caught any of the offenders, senous punishment would ensue, possibly involving dis­missal from the University. He also pointed out that students are in the best position to stop the offenders--either by apply­ing peer pressure, or by bringing 
fires on campus th~s year and recalled the fires i Morrissey and Howard last year as examples that the1ppssibility 'of fire on campus is hor as remQte them before the Hall Judici.1l Board or Roemer himself. 
"After all," he stated, "it is our lives we are concerned with.'' 
Hopkin$ pr~sents third Cardinal·! 0 'Hara lecture 
I ; 
I 
Charles I. ]'opkins} ] r., chairman of the ation'l Rail­way Labor Con erenc~e, will present the th(rd Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Lecture in 
Memorial Library Auditorium at 3:30p.m. todaY, The talk is sponsored by the College of Business Administration and is open to the public. 
A nationally reco~nized au­thority on labor relauons in the railroad and airline industries, Hopkins is former vice presi­dent of personnel and labor relations for Flying Tiger and 
. 

American Airlines, and attor­ney for Illinois Central and New York Central railroads. The NRLC is the national bargain­
~ng agency for the railroad
mdustry. 
The lecture series honors Notre Dame's 12th president, 1934-1940, who founded the University's business adminis­tration program and presided over its growth in the early 1920's. Outstanding leaders in the fields of industry, education and politics prestde at the lectures each year. 
Cui oul !he dollo1. br111g 
11 w1lh you whP.n you 
HAIR CAR£ FOR MEN & WOMEN 
ACROSS PROM NORTH Vll.LAGE SOUTH BEND. INDIANA MALL 'ON U.S. 31 2til1·u911 272.8666 
UPPER LEVEL/SCOTTSDALE MALL 
• 

YES -I am interested in Adam· Smith University's SUMMER SCHOOL in Oxford & Cambridge, England. Courses in Art, Economics, English, History, Politics, Science and Sociology. Tuition for three-week courses is $395, plus accommodation charges of $445 (Oxford) and $495 (Cambridge). 
0 YES-I am Interested In the SEMESTEH ABROAD studying Politics In London, England, with practical experience of International 'political institutions. Full tuition for $1,995 per semester. 
O YES -I am interested in the M.A.(Politics) course In Europe, including practical experience. Two semesters, tuition $1,995 for each. 
NAMJ; ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
ADDRESS, , •• , •••• , • , ••••• , ••• , •• , 
TO: Adam Smith University, Box 374, Leesburg, VA 
1------•mM:BI 
.,.....-~....-¥_.._..,._....,..'-_-4,_,......,-1,._.._-JI~...~h 
. 21st Annual 
Collegiate Jazz Festival 
featuring 

Joe Sample Philly Joe Jones Richard Davis· Stanley Tuttentlne Buddy Defranco Nat Adderley 
Jethto Butns and the nation's best college jazz bands 
April 6&7 Stepan Center 
Tickets at NDSU and'SMC box offices and the door Fri. Eve. $4.50 Sat. Aft. $2.50 Sat. Eve. $4.00 All session pass $7.50 
...­

'Jim Crowley, Minnesota presents 
,WHAT: 
(1) How Notre Dame and other . universities enable chemical dependency (in_cluding alcohol) ; how it happens, how 
it can be responsibly faced, what are the alternatives. 
(2) Process of intervention and 
confrontation by peers. The How, Why, Where and When. 
.April 5 
8 :30-11 : 30am -Library Auditorium 
1:30-4 : 30 pm -Liorary Auditorium 
6: 30-9 : 30pm -Galvin Life Sci. Aud fApril 6 
8:30-11 : 30am -Grace Hall Lounge Ph.8809 
,.:._ __ f L 







The Daily Crossword 


© 1979 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. All Rights Reserved 

========================================================================================================= 

Molarl..ty 
ON HIS W'AY TO 7JEGa.DEN
!DOMED CIJ1 JIM' MET 

Doonesbury 
!JR. MAH!JAVI, fKYAJ aJ '/(){J 
RESPON/J 70 C/?JllOSM 7HAT '/(}{}k. NCIA/ REVO­
U/7lONA/ij 60VCRNA1ENT15 
RAPIIJL.Y 8ECOMIN6 7He 

I -WOR513 OF 7WO liV/ts 1" I 
, THE TNHAN, WHO IJANT.S 10REPLACE HIS Tit# STl'MNJIIFm ONE OF" CAST /FlW
I(~E EAT5 IH THE J)NtNc; /W..L 



tvl3L.L., Yo$ ?HAT tu.45 me OR/61NA! PLAN, BUTIT IS &NTIRE/..Y POSS!Bl.& 7J.IERE lAIIt/.. 8e S{AJft; atf1~15E. 
ON 7HE. exACT~. 
\ 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

Sports Wrapup 

Rugby team sweeps Ball State 
, Back from their recent tour of Ireland, the Notre Dame rugby team swept Ball State last Saturday, winning games on all three levels. .. 
Displaying their new skills learned abroad, the team .consistently outran and outscored their opponents. 
Tom Basche led the "A-" team to a 15-10 win, scoring seven points, three on a 40-meter penalty kick. H.J. Hannigan and Kevin "Corky" Corcoran added four pointseach. 
The "B" team had a 6-0 win on a Joe Gildo try and a two point conversion by Brad Newman. "Neumie" completed the game despite breaking his thumb early in the contest. 
An 8-0 win by the "C" team completed the sweep, and Matt O'Brien and Kevin Gibbons provided the four-pointers for the Irish. 
Next on the schedule for the ruggers will be a contest with Terre Haute this Saturday at 1 p.m. at Stepan Fields. 
Women runners gain places at Purdue 
Notre Dame's women's track club, in its second year of existance, collected one fourth place and three ftfth places at the Purdue Invitational, a non-scoring meet held last weekend. 
The mile relay team of Bernie Bollas, Eunie Sullivan, Ann T orrie, and Jackie Bollas captured fourth place. The Irish women finished ftfth in the two-mile relay with Kathy Gutherie, Adelia Malvezzi, Liz Berry, and Helen Weber teaming up in the race. 
Two mdtviduals also placed for the Irish in the invitational. Mary Hums took ftfth in the javelin and Jackie Bollas leaped to ftfth in the long jump. 
New talk show debuts on WSND 
Sportsline, WSND's newest sports show, will debut tomght at 11 p.m. Tune in to 640-AM, and join Frank LaGrotta, Brian Beglane and Paul Mullaney in their call-in discussion format. Irish fencing coach Mike DeCicco will be the featured guest tonight. 
Toohey accepts challenges for Sowder Fund 
Fr. Bill Toohey has challenged any undergraduate to a best-of-three-games in handball, the loser to donate $50.00 to the Andy Sowder Memorial Fund. Challengers come ·to Campus Ministry office, 103 Memorial Library. 
[Continued from page 12] 
fencing, but a true cultural experience for all involved. 
"I don't know of any other opportunity where three to six thousand people on campus can meet people from one or more of 34 different countries,'' ex­pressed DeCicco. "I don't think it can ever haJ?pen again in the students' lifetunes." 
_DeCicco has received help from certain .Public organiza­dons and busmesses such as restaurants, theaters, etc., that have donated money and tickets to entertain members of the different international parties during their stays in South Bend. 
But what matters more, in the eyes of DeCicco, is the 
· one-on-one contact that stu­dents remaining on campus during Easter can offer to the athletes from the different countries. "If someone wants to meet 
Mi. h 1 M lin--11-;­
C ae 0 e 1 

AND -mE CoW'ARDLY LICW, WHO WANTS Ccuw;E: 7b FACE LIFE (HE~ASfNIOR) 


Gary Trudeau 
Y~ st»1e OF tiS YOU MEAN. ARE 7RYIN6 7D 7H£1?E.'5A 6&T IT A1()1,1E!!J(}P
Nli/JI TAR.­
70 7H& AGE fJI= 
(jfl/¥fTl;? 
VOLTAIRE. 
\ \ 


Owner's son to 
take over Rams 
LOS ANGELES (AP) Despite the death of owner Carroll Rosenbloom, there's expected to be no change in the operation of the Los Angeles Rams in the National Football League. Rosenbloom's son, Steve, will take over the team. 
The elder Rosenbloom, 72, drowned in Florida on Monday. In past years he had schooled his son, now 34, in the opera­tion of the football club. 
There has been no announce­ment and none is expected immediately on a replacement for Carroll Rosenbloom, but Steve Rosenbloom has been the assistant to the president, his father, in the Rams' direction. 
The wealthy Rams' owner was controversial in the NFL but also was respected. 
"We had some differences over things in the league that he felt affected his team adversely,'' commented NFL commissioner Pete Rozelle. "I was very pleased that in recent months is was considered past and gone and we had a very close relationship. 
Johnny Unitas, an NFL Hall ..­of Fame quarterback who played for Rosenbloom in Balti­more, said, "He gave a lot of guidance in the early part of the NFL's growth. He was not only concerned with winning, he's concerned with the players and their families.'' 
Attorneys sard the NFl. fran­chise probably· will go to his widow, Georgia, in tr..1st for his children. He was the sole owner of the club . 

• • . ND hosts 
an individual from a certain country, those kids will be more than happy to meet our stu­dents," he suggested. "They don't want to have to talk to their coaches and officials for four straight days. They'd _probably be extremely inter­ested in seeing how an Ameri­
can college student lives." 
De.Cicco is asking for all 
interested students -those who 
speak another language and 
those who don't -to call and 
offertheirservices. Anyinter­
ested students, faculty or staff 
can call the Ombudsman (6283) 
to leave their name and num­
ber. Once having volunteered, 
whether an hour or an evening, 
each individual will be con­
tacted and given the necessary 
information. 
"For those people that want 
to meet people, this is a very 
simple and beautiful way of 
communicating,'' DeCicco 
adds. ''Even if it means having 
a Coke at the Huddle, or 
playing a Beatles' album in 
your dorm room. 
"Outward expression of res­
pect for these people and their 
countries is very important. 
For many of them, the1C OJ?inion 
of the United States will be 
based upon their visit to Notre 
Dame. Even physical atten­
dance at the-ceremonies and a 
little applause can do a great 
deal in warming the hearts of 
many an individual." 
Softball schedules now available 
Interhall softball team cap­tains, both undergraduate and graduate, who mtssed yester­day's,meeting are urged to pick up a schedule today in the Inter hall office. Games will be starting tonight. 
ACROSS 1 God of love 5 Massenet 
opera 10 Murray and West 14 Musical 
Porter 15 Artery 16 Golliwogg 17 Police job 18 --totsy 19 Check 20 Resembling 
black 22 Become irate 
24 Cereal 
grass 25 Possesses 26 Soft mate­
rial 30 Like a bolt 
from­34 Unemployed 35 French 
play part 37 Chatters 38 Carson City 
state: abbr. 39 Donated 40 Carew's 
cudgel 41 Monkshood 43 Leo's 
milieu 44 Sitfora 
picture 45 Color 47 Literature 
forms 50 Greek letters 51 Storage box 

52 Submerged 55 Actor · Sidney 60 Wordsof 
comprehen­
sion 61 Thoughts 63 Squirming 64 Dropof 
sorrow 65 Chutzpah 66 Eastern 
university 67 Goes wrong 68 Portals 69 Vous-
DOWN Land measure 
2 Naomi's 
land 3 Potpourri 4 Character­
istic of Rudolph 5 Exotic island 6 Ladder's partner 7 Comedian 
Johnson 8 Possessive 9 Hollers 
"uncle" 10 Port-, New Guinea 11 Ripening substance 12 Great Lake 
13 Transmit 21 "Mighty­a Rose" 23 Compass point 25 Water mammals 26 Middle East 
money 27 "-Joy" 28 Presley 29 Water 
nymphs 3~ Work 32 Czarist 
edict 33 Kefauver 36 106, in 
ltalia 39 Reaper's 
action 42 Thosewho search 44 Conjuncti­
vitis 46 Waytogo: 
abbr. 48 Humbles 49 Twitching 52 Locale 53 Addict 54 Close 55 Comedian 
Lahr 56 Wash 57 Essential 
part 58 She: Fr. 59 Breads 62 Goddess: Lat. 


TilE SCARECROW, WIIO 
..,EEDS A BRAIN TO GET A 

IT HA'3 BEEN~ 
RJR INSTANCE, 7H/iT 7HE AYA70UAH'S ISLAMIC R&Pl/8L.IC 15, IN GFFeCT; 
RE7l/RNING IRAN 70 
7H& /47H CENTVRYl 
----.,. ____ .. -----..... ------------__ ..__ ..... ___________ .. ________ ........ ·--.... 
~ 
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, April 4, 1979 -page 11 
[Continued from page 12) McGlynn blocli:ed a kick and Mike Allare picked up the ball 
and the whole...team marched in and scored the tying points. 
the St. Patrick Day's parade. 
Maynooth was the next stop, The ruggers opened their 
and this Irish town serves as
... Ruggers 
schedule against Trinity Col­home base for the Notre Dame-· 
lege while in Dublin, and came 
St. Mary's Ireland program.
away with an exciting 14-14 tie. 
The team members stayed with 
The ND Irish tied on the final 
the _students, sleeping about. 
play of the game, as Mike 
ten ill each room. The extra: 
• • • Three teams 
warm bodies were helpful since none of the rooms had heat, which is expensive in Ireland. 
The Domers notched their 
first win against Maynooth 
College, 8-4, as Kevin McGlynn 
and Kevin Corcoran both 
scored four points for Notre 
Dame. "The game was played 
in two inches of snow,'' Bowers 
said, "and this served as an 
equalizer for them, because we 
were obviously the better 
team.'' 
The team hoped to do some shopping at their next stop in Galway, but a strike dosed shops ill that city. Strikes were common during the trip, Bowers ·noted. "The postal system was also on strike the whole time we were there so we couldn't send any le~ers home." 
Notre Dame had their ftrst encounter with a city team in Galway, and also experienced their ftrst loss of the trip, falling to a veteran Greystones team, 32-15. Allare was high point 
man for the Irish in the game, scoring seven. The "B" team did record their ftrst victory of the trip, taking a 17-15 win after losses in the first two games. Brad Newman scored six points 
to aid the cause. 
, A ~isit to Durty Nellie's pub htghlt~hted the team's stop in Limenck (but it would seem that the pubs were the highlight ofmost of their travels). A 16-0 win over the National Institute for Higher Education helped make the journey a complete success, as Allare, Tim Martin Rico Harper and Nick Raich ali 
scoredfour pointers to lead the visiting Irish. 
Notre Dame made a brief stop in Killarney to kiss the famous Blarney Stone, giving all the team members the gift of flattery. 
Finaily the visitors faced the city team from Tullamore. The Irish hosts had ori~inally planned to send their "B ' team up aginst Notre Dame, but they heard of the Domers success thus far and decided to go with their top squad. Tullamore won, as one of their players amazed the Irish with. a 50-yard field goal. Bowers, Brian Tucker, and H.J. Hannigan all scored four for Notre Dame in this game. 
Wet weather characterized the trip, as all the games were playe~ c;m sloppy fields. And the VISitors learned a little about the m~by players of Ireland and thetr style of play, 
,

'We were a lot bigger " Bowers noted, "butthey wer~ a lot quicker: And while we rely more on a physical game, they are more concerned about passing and execution." 
This fact was exemplified in the number of injury time-outs over the trip. Notre Dame had 
-~ne over die five games, and :the opponents averaged 8 or 9 a igame. "It would appear that lwe might have taught them a Jfew moves '' Bowers added 
' 
(Continued from page 12) 
Barrios and Company have matured is the big 
key for the Chisox. 
Meanwhile, Chicago fans have to wonder just how long their White Sox can keep dose to the big three. After that it's just more of the same old fun at the ol' ball park with Bill Veeck, Harry Caray, Nancy Faust, Andy the Clown, the Drummer Boy, the center-field shower the exploding scoreboard, etc.' etc.' etc. ' 
Mariners 
Few die-hard baseball fans could probably name ten members of the Mariners. Glenn Abbott, Jim Colborn, Tom House and Paul Mitchell could be good pitchers with a little support. Unfortunately for manager Darrell Johnson, the dub's ftrst and only skipper, what support these pitchers will recetve is question­able. 
The Mariners finished in the West cellar 35 games behind, a year ago. But Johnson al~ayshas been a wi~ner, and will get the most out of key players, ltke off-season acquisitions Willie Horton and Bobby Thompson, plus holdovers Bob Stinson and Ruppert ) ones 

Twins 
Jerry Koosman and Paul Hartzell are wel­
comed additions to a pitching staff which already 
had boasted Dave Goltz, Geoff Zahn and Mike 
Marshall. But the loss of Carew will hurt Gene 
Mauch's squad more than any acquisition will 
help. 
Infielder Ron Jackson, a former California Angel, could help keep the Twins out of the cellar, but in no way will he, or any other player, compensate for the loss of the league s best hitter. It wi!l be interes~ing to note, by the way, how Carew s absence illfluences Twins atten­dance this season. 
Athle#cs 
Another season in Oakland means another manager. Former Cub pilot Jim Marshall gets the nod to put up with owner-coach Charlie Finley this year, and can't be expected to do anything with the dub he has been given. 
Outfielder Mitchell Page and rookie southpaw John Johnson were virtually the onlr. brtght spots for last year's team. And even if others provide some unexpected help, it will be tough to keep the A's from dwelJing in the American League West's cellar 
Notices . ATTENTION MAY GRADS All May Grads must repay their Morris­sey Loans by Thurs. April12, or they will be turned over to student accounts. Penalty will be charged. T~plng in home. Fast, accurate, close by. reviously 272·7866, Now 272·4105, call  
after 5:30 TyWng. IBM Selectric Pickup and de Ivery 277·0296.  
Why Pay More? Flanner Records has all $7.98 LP's for only $4.99 Flanner Records 603 Flanner Phone 4256. Hours Monday·Thursday 4:00-5:00, 6:30·8:00. Why spend more off campus?  
'Celebrate the spring with a walk to Pandora's! Just amile walk (or jo~ from -N.D. Happ~ Hour-all used boo s 1/2 price. every riday afternoon 233-2342. G.K. Chesterton ·N.D. Chesterton Society forming. Inter­ested faculty and students write: Paul Wood 304 St. Joseph Hall. ·  
iParents: Want a permanent Sat. night babysitter? Grad student $1 hr, negoti­able. 233·1329.  
Summer Study in New York City: Columbia University offers over 350 undergraduate, graduate and profession­al school courses. Write for bu(letin: Summer Session, Columbia University, 102 C Low Library, N.Y., N.Y. 10027  
NOCTURNE· NIGHTFLIGHT, WSND-89 FM, RENEE REDER FEATURES THE MUSIC OF FLEETWOOD MAC, 1967·77 TONIGHT AT 12:15. Lost: Canon Electron lc Camera flash. At Nazz before break. Call 8417. Whoever swaped c8mel hair coats with me Friday, March 9at Senior Bar please call Pat 41·4915. ; Found: one calc~~or be~lnd Keenan. Call 7967 to ldentl Lost: March 8 In :iEngr:: Bldg. 1SR51 calculator. Reward offered. Call Ron at 34)4. Lost: one pair of brown rimmed glasses In tan case. Grad students-if you picked up four person's on way to Happ~ Hour friday, they ~ be In our bac seat. Contact Tim 1  
Found: Set of keys with horseslloe on key ring. Near tenms oourts. Claim at Observer Office.  


All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m .. two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All
Classifieds cla~sifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mall. 
Lost: Friday night at Gulser,ples-a gold Need ride to Schenectady NY. for Easter Hey Fans! Join now, before Its too late! Bryan, heart-shaped locket with an 's" engrav-and ride to Bloomington sometime. Will Tlm&Steve I'm holding your IOU for the T-shlrt! ed on it. Extreme sentimental value share driving and expenses call Casey Cp attached. If found please call Susan 8421. Does someone's ace you know look like 5427. an accident? Girl needs help! 
$500.00 Per Week possible as home Vote for UMOC Nice, cute, and very domestic female 
telepholne rece~tionlst for national ad-from Italian ethnic background Is In 
vertising firm. oexperience required --Kathleen· search of a home. Her village has been


For Rent 
no obligation. A.C.P., Inc. P.O. Drawer Whatever you decide, I'll be behind you. ravaged by chicken pox-meaning she Is a 140069, Dallas, TX 75214. You'll always be number one In my book. homeless wail!. If you can find a place In Have lar~e furnished home for rent -Northport Tiger your house and heart for her-call the 
Available or summer and fall semesters.' 
spaghetti hotllne at 3079.
" REPRESENTATIVES WANTED for
Suitable for five or six students, 1 block Anyone Interested In working JAZZ
romotlon of International bus lines In
East of memorial hospital, If interested urope and Asia. Expeditions In Africa FESTIVAL In exchange for free admls-Thursday, chlckenman falls In love. Yes call 232-4412. and South America. Camping tours. slon and guaranteeds3ood time! Please the feathered fowl Is bitten by the Educational tours. Almost any travel call Ombudsman, 62 . amourous bug. That's at 7:40 am on 
For next school year furnished four 
arrangement organized. Magic Bus, WSND 
bedroom house for rent close to Notre For Rent: One seldomly used bed: Call
Damrak 87, Amsterdam, Holland."
Dame 277-3604. Barb, Carol or Hilary at 41-4681. Doug Van Tort and Cathy Murray for Needed: one seldomly used bed for U.C.O.C. (Ugly Couple on Campus).Students live-In maid. Call Krebs, Pudge or

For Sale
5 Bedroom-2 baths available for 1979-80 Jackson at ?289. Theological Query of The Day: If Christ $300 mo. Rent from June 1 through 
lived today' would he be a corrarate
Need aCorsage for the Farley or St. Ed'ssummer $150 mor. 232-9498, 291-4528. 
C. Gunning, executive at Gulf Oil? Political act:Formal this weekend? I have top quality Stick your social commenta~ Hans Morganthan Is a Stoneface. 
House for Rent-Summer and possibly cymbidium orchid corsages and am " ot-to-Trot" Mahatrua Gandhi next year-4 Bedrm. furnished-very close 
selling at low cost-shipped directly from to campus 289-1718. grower so selling for $4.00! Wide Brendan T: Marlbeth and Jody,selection of colors. Call AHAB 8865. 
The wish was early but the deadline was Good luck today. I know you can do it. 
Rooms for rent, $40.00 each. Fireplace, late. Happiest 21st anyway. Paz ndes to school. 3blocks from golf course. 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7 Love LisaRalph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Road 
Niles. 683-2888. 
233-1329 Sept. or June. 
WEEKEND RETREAT The Adonis . There are still a few openin~ for this Thursda~, 9·11 pm WSND 640 AM
Audiophiles-upgrade your system! Sell­
weekend's retreat with r. John Ladles a I Request Nlte.

Wanted 
ing a Technics professional series SL-Fitzgerald and Sr. Jane Pltz. For Info.
1400 MKZ turntable. Direct Drive,
Ride needed to Northern JerseyI NYC call 6536. Sue Callahan won last year's Antostal
semiautomatic. Mark, 233·5256. 
area. Can leave after Monday. Call Road Rally, but Rosemary Borris looks Lynne 3193. Jerry and Mary, like a top contender this year.
23 112 inch men's bicycle. Viscount, Congrats! The law and business worlds
Grandprix good for touring. Phone
Need ride to Ph illy area for Easter Break. have gained two prizes. Good Luck Happy Blrthd~ Kate Kllkllskle. I'll bet
259·2014.
Can leave Wed. pm. Ca11.1001 or 41·4350 T.C. ~ou thought I' for~et didn't ~ou? I still 
ave that can of Miler, and I' I even stop 
Janet, studying for a very few minutes If yo~ 
Thank you. I had an excellent tlme. want to share half of it. 
Kevin KPM Driving home to Fla. for Easter NEED riders, please call. 1863. 
Need ride to Cincinnati afternoon of April 
12. Call Jim 1553. 

Lost&Found 
Need f,assengers to Clncl April 7. Call 
Judy 227. 

Ride needed to anywhere In New England for Easter. Can leave Tuesday noon. Sue 7891 
1or 2bedroom furnished apartment from May to August Call 778-4186 evenings. 
Please Help Desperately Need 3 Billy Joel Tickets. Dan 8252. 
Need ride to Rochester or Minneapolis for Easter. Share Driving and expenses. Don 8175. · 
Need ride to Long Island-NYC for ~sterl 
Will share everything! Leave anytime.Scott 1861. .· 
Need ride to Toronto-anY.ima! Will share 
'"":penses. n30 . . . ·. 
Neoo riders to Champaign, U. of til. this weekend Call Martha· 41:4123'. 

Tickets 
DISCO, Disco! Dancing lessons being given now. Professional instruction tautt to guys & ~als. Group rates aval able. Call 
34-2862 Evenings. 

Personals 
SHUFFLEBOARD instruction available. Iget INTO everything and cover all those details. Paul 7289. Lost: 1pair underwear size XL. Laundry I# 70200. Frank 1205 
Vote Torres-McCaughey-Saccaclo· Wagner for NDAA Working together for you.! 
The Pseudo·Dionysius was a woman. 
Ahoy Sailors! Join the N.D. Sailing club-learn to sail travel with the racing team meetings Wed. 6:30 204 O'Shag. 
Do it on the Water Join the N.D. Sailing Club 
Congrats to Maureen Loughne~, Debut-Wish aWalsh t' happy birthday today. ante of the Year at the Farley all. Walsh hall • 7 years old. 
Jeanine, Sue·Thanks for a ~reat time saturday--I tMy "Dayton Domer" roommate). never had more un not "picking up" ongrats on Reno and agreat season and someone! thanks for putting up with me. MB Wonder 
Rademaker, 344 Farley, I didn't forget your blrthday,~ust slow 111 SooEee. What a room! But joining wishing you a happy one. ope It was MaryAnn in bed was fun. Will have to do great! it again sometime. Keith 
Later 

Marilyn Thomassen, There's only one reason for a woman to be as perpetually hafsPY asru are. Are you really that "Sat sfled" 
Love and Kisses Babe Ruth 

D&M- 
Can we have two scoops?  J&J  
. 

Jack& Suzy-If you s~end any more time together, It'll be lega! lrt 
I think I am going tG be ill. 
Sboop 


Wanted: Tennis Lessons for two girls. Call Jeannine or Lisa 4392. Help! 
He~, Kath and I have ~o get back for Ha loween-remember? Mr. Fisher contest Saturday night a~ Gulsseppes. 
HI 3 North Main Holy Cross. 
f c 
Wednesday, April 4, 1979 -page 12



SRorts 
Netters overwhelm Butler·­in first home outdoor meet 
b_y Michael Ortman Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame tennis team evened its record at 6·6, yester­day, defeating a much out­classed Butler team, 9-0. The Irish coasted to victory, winning eight of the nine matches in just two sets, at the match played at Courtney Tennis Center behind the ACC. 
Top-seeded Mark Hoyer was the only one to have any noticable trouble in his singles win. After dropping the first set, 4-6 to Butler's Mark Bearby, Hoyer battled back to win the close second set by-an identical score and then easily won the third, 6-1. 
''I was rushing my shots a little," explained Notre Dame's number one player. "This was rhe first time we've been out­side for a while, and I think I was a little tentative with some of my shots." 
The Irish won the other 
singles matches convincingly. Number two man Carlton Harris easily won his match with Dave Hoover, 6-2, 6-3, and team captain Mark True-blood quickly dispose~ of_ Toi? Cooke, 6-1, 6-3. Pl.aymg ff! t e number five and stx postttons, freshmen. Tom Hartzell a~d Tom Robtson also won wtth ease, ~-1, 6-1, and 6-1, 6-0, respecttvely. 
The team's number three man, c;\.lphomore Herb Hop-wood mcreased his team-besi: recon..! to 8-4 with his 6-4, 6-3 decision over Bill Schumacker. 
The dual match had already been decided by the time the doubles matches got underway, but that didn't slow the Irish at all. Notre Dame finished off th1::: Bulldogs in a hurry, winning all three ln two sets. Only one of the doubles competitions wa:s close at all. The number two team of Bob Koval and True­blood got by Schumacker and Cooke, 6-4, 6-4. Hoyer and Harris evened their doubles record at 5-5 with their 6-3, 6-2 victory over Bearby and Hoover. Hopwood and Bill Pratt drove the final nail into the Bulldog's coffin with their 6-3, 6·2 win. 
"Butler's not that strong," said Irish coach Tom Fallon, "but we have to play North­western here on Thursday, and they are going to be really tough. I was very glad that we could get outside today and gee used to this surface again. It's 
a lot different than playing in 
the ACC." 
Thursday's Northwestern match will. be the final home: match for quite a while for the: Irish. They will not compete: here again until April 27th when they host Michigan State. Northwestern in 6-5 overall but 

-2-0 in their conference. Notre Dame is 1-2 against Big Ten competition after its upset of teh Wisconsin Badgers. The match with the Wildcats is scheduled for 3:00 p.m., and, providing, will be played at the Courtney Tennis Center behind the ACC. 

by Mark Perry Sports Editor 

In an attempt to face some tougher competition in hopes of improving their play, the Notre Dame rugby team traveled to Ireland to face some local college and city teams over spring break. And, as always, the team managed to have a great time while gaining valu­able experience. 
the U.S. had a good showing, with a 2-2-1 record for the trip. 
Forty team members went on the journey overseas, paying for the trip themselves, and according to team secretary Jim Bowers, "the money was worth it. We had a good time, some good drinking, and a lot of good rugby." 
"We learned a lot from these teams," Bowers continued. ''We are hoping that we em use our newfound knowledge to help us against teams in the States. The teams and coaches in Ireland taught us a lot of things that we have never seen used here." 
The trip began with five days in Dublin, where team mem­bers spent' much of their time touring the city. Some went to the Abbey Theatre, other visited the Guiness Brewery, 
[Continued on page 11] 

It was the Fighting Irish meeting the real Irish in five games, and the visitors from ND hosts Junior Fencers 
InAL West by Paul Mullaney South Bend community to be Assistant Sports Editor selected to run the champion­ships,'' notes Tournament Notre Dame and the South Director Mike DeCicco, the
Three teams fight jfor top spot 
Bend community will have a fencing coach at Notre Dame. 
once-in-a-lifetime opportunity "It shows that the interna­A sign draped over the left field wall at next week, as their members tional federation was pleasedComiskey Park last summer welcomed the can be ambassadors of good with our operation and facilities

Kansas City Royals to Chicago to face the White Paul 
will to citizens of 34 different eight years ago, and we areSox in a four-game se•ies. "Welcome Annual 
countries. more than honored to host this 

Pennant Chokers,'' it read, truthfully telling the The University of Notre L·ame great tournament once more."
Mullaney
luck of the "Show Me" state team for three 4 is hosting the 1979 Junior When DeCicco ran the tour­straight years in the American League playoffs. " -World Fenctng Championships 
nament at the ACC in 1971, itAnd while the Royals haven't been successful However, if the Angels want to take part in at the Athletic: and Convocation marked the first time since thein reachin~ the World Series, their chance for post-season actilon, they'll have to give Carew a Center beginning on Thursday, competition began in 1950 thatdoing it thts year is less than it has been in the good deal of support. Manager Jim Fregosi, 3 7 April 12, with the opening the championships were held in past. Put the names of three clubs --Kansas years young today, will be keeping his fingers ceremonies. The tournament the Western Hemisphere. 

City, California and Texas --in a hat and take crossed that the bats of Dave Chalk, Bobby will run throughout Easter The tournament has grownyour pick. Even though the Royals would have Grich, Don Baylor, Dan Ford and Joe Rud\ are weekend, and will conclude on rapidly since it began. Twenty­to be given a slight nod in the Western Division, alive and potc~nt. And more importantly, Monday evening April 16. one different countries visitedthe Angels and Rangers strengthened them-pitching ace Frank Tanana must bt; give~ more The Junior World Champion­Notre Dame to compete in 1971,selves by off-season negotiations. support than last r.ear. Nolan Ryan ts looktng for ships allow the top amateur while approximately 400 ath­a turnaround, whtleJim Barr, Chris Knapp, and fencers around the world, un­letes and officials will represent Royals -reliever Dave LaRoche all must contribute. 
der 20 years of age, to emerge the 34 different countnes thatDorrel ''Whitey'' Herzog, in each of his three "-. 

from their peers. It also serves visit the Midwest this timefull seasons at the club's helm, has taken the Rangers . . . . . 

as a testing ground for fencers around. 

same type of club to the playoffs. And this year Texas could be the class of the dlVlston tf hopeful of participating in All of which gives the localcould be no exception. Practically a carbon copy owner Brad Corbett takes a back .seat and lets Olympic competition. people an opportunity to makeof the 1978 squad, Kansas City does not boast Pat C~rral.es run the show. Thts season, as "It is a great honor for the the tournament more than iustmuch power --an unusual occurrence for a usual, tt ~til tak~ Rang~r fans half of the season University and the people of the [Continued on page 10)
pennant contender. The Royals thrive on speed, to memonze thetr teams roster. . defense and execution, as is seen in their The bullpen 1:andem of ~p.a~ky Lyle and J tm method of scrapping and scraping for runs. Kern .(both off-season acqll:tsltlons) co~ld be t~e 
Strong up the middle, the Royals have a good best .m the league. And tf starters ltke Fergte all-around lineup. If they had one weakness, Jenktns, Doyle Alexander and Jon ~atlack can however, it would be a suspect pitching staff. ~ta):' healthy and, keep games cl?se tn the late With no main stopper, Herzog relies equally on tnnmgs, .Corbett s shuttle servtce may have Paul Splittorff, Dennis Leonard and Larry Gura. finally patd off.. . . And when the big out is needed, "The Mad Although h3:v1~g a.quesuonable mfield, Osc~r Hungarian" Hrabosky waits ready in the Gamble and Richte Ztsk are back together(not tn bullpen. The Royal upper brass must be clamdiggers! t~ough) and join AI Ol~ver tn the satisfi~d with its. current hurli.ng staff, .howeve~, outfield to gtve Texas g~od power. It s too bad, since tt dealt reltever Doug Btrd to Philadelphta though, that they won t he ~ble to face the yesterday. gopher ball of t1eammate J enkms. 
Angels White Sox 
Rod Carew has won six of the last seven It has been clear since the opening day of American Lea~ue batting titles. And if he spring camp that player-manager Don doesn't make tt seven out of eight this year, Kessinger intends to field hts best defensive ba.ll Gene Autry will be one disappointed owner. club. He wants the best support possible for a The Angels have put a lot of weigh~ on top of pitching staff which has been tagged by many as Carew's shoulders, hoping his .334 lifetime the best "future~" staff in the league. Whether average won't slack off, and thus carry them to or not the arms of Ken Kravec, Francisco the division's top. [Continut:d on page llj 




