

Groucho -page 7 

VOL.XIV, No.4 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY AUGUST 31, 1979 
I SMC Board to consider 
library plan next week 
by Pam Degnan gaged in designing at St. Staff Reporter Meinrad's Monastery in south­ern Indiana, was chosen by the 
The final architectural draw­Saint Mary's Library Commit­ings for a new library will be tee to submit his drawings. considered by the Saint Mary's The new building, accordingBoard of Regents next week. 
to the schematic drawings will Architect Evans Woolen yes­occupy 70,000 square feet as terday projected the construc­compared to the 18,000 squaretion of the library will cost the feet of the old library. 
college an estimated $5 mil­Once completed, Sr. Bernicelion dollars. The Administra­Hollenhorst, head librarian,tion, in attempting to raise a plans to expand the audio­large portion of the money, is visual department and move ~ u~d~rtaking ~n overall fund­the archives from Regina Hallraismg campaign. 
to the new building.
According to Woolen's de­Professor Kevin MacDonnell,signs, the library will be situ­chairman of the Philosophyated next to the Science Build­Department and a member ofing and across from the dining the Library Committee, feelshall. The building would be that Woolen's designs are per­constructed in yellow brick with fectly in keeping with -thea slate roof. Woolen's plans atmosphere. of Saint Mary's. 
attempt to preserve. the tradi­tional gothic architecture of the ''I am enthusiastic about the older campus buildings. plans. I think the new library 
Woolen, who designed the will succeed in fulfilling the . 
Some took great pains to put their best.ffiot forward for last
library at Marion College in needs of the students," said 
night's concert. [photo by Beth Prezzo]
Indianapolis and is now en-MacDonnell. 



Hamel, Roche defend ticketpolicies 
by Dan Letcher seats,'' Hammel explained. ary tickets for . co-promoted the Board's participation in Senior StaffReporter Student Body vice-president concerts, according to Hammel. Dean Roemer's most recent Bill Vita then challenged stu­Student Body President Roche alcohol directive. "We were 
Student Union Director Tom dents: ''If people are going to and Hall President s Council happy that Dean Roemer did Hamel distributed and explain­gripe about this policy, they can Chairperson Ellen Dor':leY. will incorporate our suggetions into ed his organization's concert come up and join Student Union receive two sets to be distnbut­his new idrectives,'' Roche ticket policy to the Board of and try to· get s.ome of these ed within their organizations. commented.. After consulting Commissioners last night in the benefits." The remaining sets will be with Roche, Dorney and Judic­Student Government Office. The Studen Union will also spread out within the student ial coordinator Jim O'Hare, Hammel also defended the set aside 25 pairs of tickets to Union. Union's policy of giving free be distributed as compliment-Also discussed last night was tickets to Union workers. 
Hammel noted that compli­mentary tickets to concerts held 
at the ACC are purchased by Home sweet home 
the Student Union before each 
event and then distributed. 

Students redecorate dorm rooms 
The Union may set aside a minimum -of one and no more By Tom)ackman been using carpeting as steadying wed~es in than 17 pairs of preferential Senior Staff Reporter order to protect the newJy painted walls m that tickets. These may be purchas­hall. ed by Student Umon workers. The opportunity to customize or redecorate Choosing a color to paint one's room here is 
Treasurer Gfeg Sebasky then dorm rooms is one of the few things Notre Dame much less of a dilemma; the University only raised the delicate question of students look forward to at the school year's provides--and only allows --six different whether the workers really beginning. Painting the walls, building lofts and shades, all light and bland. In one party room, deserve this compensation. bars and arranging furniture all are part of this however, the walls are a bright, -almost blinding This started a minor debate in process, and although the University has a strict a2:tec red with jet black trim. The students there which Hammel defended the set of regulations regarding the way rooms may enjoy the change of pace from gold mist or Union's policy. "There started be arrange, students still manage to devise off-white·, and they are aware that the University a minor debate in which interesting and unusual room set-ups every levies a stiff fine of$75 for each new coat it takes Hammel defended the Union year. to cover the offending color. So they are policy. "There is no organiza­This year is no exception. Lofts are once again prepared, and have requisitioned enough paint tion on campus which puts in as popular around the campus, especially in the from the University paint shop to cover their much time as Student Union,~· older dorms with higher ceilings, such as Sorin, illegal red when the year comes to a close. he commented. Holy Cross and St. Ed's. Lofts are usually Bars are another popular, almost essential, 
''The work we do. _is taken wooden platforms ar frames suspended above piece of furniture in the stylish party rooms, advantage of by every student the room supporting mattressess, giving the along with stereos and televisions. One bar in on campus,'' ·he added. . inhabitants more living and party space. Zahm Hall contains an aquarium oftropical fish . Hammel went on to say that he However, duLac has specific rules concerning Beer advertisements almost always accompany does not know if these facts lofts. They must be "open on at least two these bars in the form of posters or stgns, justify the P?licy,. but ''since .w.e sides," they must not be "closer than 36 inches sometimes with lights as well. Those driving put somethmg mto our :;tctivi­from the lowest ceiling space,'' --not all lofts we past Holy Cross Hall at nigh! will notice in t~e ties, we should be able to get visited complied with that rule --''drapery ujpper right hand corner a bnght red and white some benefits." material or any fabrics" cannot_ enclose any neon sign for Miller High life. . 
''This is not a compensation beds, and no lofts can be "attached by any The main objective of room renovations each but a thank you,'' Student means to the room interior surfaces." year is to make otherwise old, drab and Body president Bill Roche said. For the most part thou~h, students are sometimes dingy rooms into comfo~table roo~ Hammel also noted that most of complying with these regulations, and very few for studies or parties. One enterpnsmg quad, In the tickets acquired are not of the lofts qualify as fire hazards. Most are addition to its bar and stereo, has an great seats. "A person has a . built with four wooden beams standing on the · innocent-looking end table next to one of its chance at getting better seats floor and a wooden frame on top to hold the couches, covered with a yellow blanket and a by entering the lottery,"· he beds..Many students use some sort of wedge lamp. But under that blanket is an insulated keg said. "Most of the seats are . berween the walls and the frame so the beds cooler for hiding the forbidden dispenser during decent but there are few floor won't wobble. Several students in Alumni have parties. 



Hurricane devastates Dominica 
BRIDGETOWN* Barbados (AP) -Hurricaine David devastated the tiny island of Dominica, killing at least seven people and l~veling virtually all the houses in the capital, Roseau, Prime Minister Oliver Seraphin said Thursday. 
''There are very few roofs remaining and very few build­inss standing'' in Roseau_.; he satd, and predicted the death toll would go "much higher" in "the worst disaster we have had in living memory.'' 
One death was attributed to the storm in Puerto Rico. Police said Narcelo Perez Acevedo, 68, was killed at his coast home when he was pinned under a tree by high winds. 
The storm, one of the most dangerous of the century, flat­tened vital banana crops on Dominica and the neighboring islands of Martinique andGuad­eloupe on Wednesday; then headed northwest Thursday towards the southern coasts of Puerto Rico and Hispaniola island, shared by Haiti and the Dominican Republic. Authorities said the hurricaine center was passing 100 miles south of Puerto Rico and His­paniola late Thursday, but eval­uated low-lying coastal areas as a precaution. 
Forecasters warned that hurri­caines often behave erratically and David could shift course. 
Winds within the storm were clocked at 150 mph. Sustained winds of up to 74 mph extend 50 miles in all directions, and steady gale force winds upto 63 mph radiate at least 100 miles from the center. 
Forecasters said its course would carry the storm about 100 miles south of Pone¢, Puerto Rico's largest city_and there Wt:IC "reason-rely Certain" that hurricaine force winds, higher than 74 mph, would not strike the island. Heavy seas and gale force winds of more than 50mph lashed Ponce and other areas on the southern coast, forcing evacuation of the lowlying areas. 
On the Virgin Island of St. Croix, civil defense spokesman said winds of 50-75 mph touch­ed 
On the Virgin Islanp of Sf. Croix, civil defense spokesman said winds of 50-75 mph knock~ ed down. trees and utility lines, but caused no casualities or major damage. Teofilo Espin­osa, the island's acting admini­strator, said emergency plans were put into effect, and about 225 people were still housed late Thursday in five shelters in public schools. · 
On Dominica, Seraphin broad­cast an international appeal for aid, and ordered government buildings, schools and churches opened to an estimated 60,000 persons whose homes were 
destroyed by the hurricaine. 
cont. on page 8 
j 




ewsin brief 
! 
r 
r 
t 
r 
Governor will not give troubled Chr_ysler cash 
INDIANOPUS (AP) -Gov. Otis R. Bowen said yesterday he has no plans to untie the state's purse strmgs for the finicially troubled Chyrsler Corp., but has encouraged the automaker to bid on contracts to supply the state vehicles. Bowen told reponers that he and three other governors met with top Chrysler officials during the Midwestern Governor's 
, Conference m Missouri this week, but received no specific requests for aid. Fur .flies over Carter's rabbit run -in Bunny rabbits are soft and cuddly creatures. They wouldn't hurt anyone. Or would they? The fur is flying over President Carter's reponed run-in with a rabbit. A longtime rabbit breeder say's he's never heard of a bunnt attacking, but adds, "Once in a while you do get a mean one." Heart surgeon sa_ys jogf!ers are masochists PARLOP: Dr. Christian Barnard, the South Mrican heart transplant pioneer, says that hard-core joggers are motivated ~ot by concer£.1 for theur health, b~t by masochism. Writing m a recent edition of the Rand Dady Mail, Barnard says that runners' apparent goal is to be "far away in some pain-filled garden of the mind, voluntarily punishing themselves for some imagined la{>se. '' The surgeon suggests that there are safer way_s of achteving pain than breathing exhaust fumes and dodgmg traffic. Quoth he, "I see no difference in this form of masochism(jogging) and that bought for a simple fee from the ladies who S{>ecialize in chain-mail bras, leather pants and a rack of whtps." ~~­\Weather Mostly sunny Friday. Highs in the mid to upper 80's. Fairly cloudyFriday night. Slight chance of a few thunderstorms late. Lows in the mid to upper 60's. Warm and humid Saturday with scattered afternoon thunderstorms. Highs in the mid to upper 80's. ..-.~-­...... - 

 
Friday, August 31, 1979 7,9,11 pm FILM "animal crackers" ENGR. AUD. $1 7 9 11 pm FILM ''man with the golden gun'' K OF C HALL.si.oo all members and applicants free. Saturday, September 1, 1979 10 am-noon MUSIC LESSONS • registration for {>rivate and group music instriction for nd stakk and family by faculty and grad students. 236 C~OWLEY,. call darlene catello, 283-8778 or-232-5141 for more mformatwn. 10 am WORKSHOP, for black freshmen at FRESH. LEARNING RESOURCE CENTER. noon PICNIC, for black freshmen in front of CARROll HALL. 9 pm DANCE "polish wedding" STEPPAN CENTER. spons; student u. $2. 7,9,11 pm FILM, "man with the golden gU:n," K OF C HALL. admission $1. all members and applicants free. 9 pm FRESHMEN ] AM, BASEMENT LAFORTUNE. spons: black freshmen orientation. 7,9,11 pm FILM, "animal crackers." ENGR. AUD $1. Sunday, September 2, 1979 1-4:30 pm GAMES, smc-nd freshmen. MCCANDLESS GREEN. (rain-angela ath. fac.) 7,9,11 pm FILM, "man with the golden ~un," K OF C HALL. admission $1. all members and applicants free.  

Judge okays canine search· 
~The Observer_ 
Night Ed\tor: lim Rudd 
Asst. zmgpt E'dttod: 
Margaret Kruse 
Features Layout:Margaret
Kruse 
ofts ~out: Gary Grasse} 
u M aney,
~ 
PJ:>t~: a'Ft Shtthack 
tch.et~ e r__anttle
~{!J.?ffif=tt~? gfa"tfb.d! 
Photographer:Beth'Prezio 
The Observer (USPS 591 920) Is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and s.tlnt Mary's College. Subscriptions lillY be purchased fill' S20 per yur l$10 per stllll$terJ from The Observer, 1'.0. box 
0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Auociated Press. All rwproductlonrights are reserved. 

Friday, August 31, 1979 -page 2 
an 
Sunday Masses at CC!~ Sacred Heart Church 
mlru;:~~~..ry 
5:15p.m. Saturday 9:15a.m. Sunday 
10:30 a.m. Sunday 
12:15 p.m. Sunday 

Bond is Back! Knights of Columbus present Roger Moore as 007 
. 
ln 
Man with the Golden Gun 
with 
Maude Adams Britt Eklund and flerve (de plane!) 
V illechaize 


Fri, Sat, Sun Aug 31, Sept 1,2 
7,9, and 11 pm K of C Hall Admission S 1.00 Members and applicants FREE 
th€ StUb€nt Umon SOCial CommiSSIOn PR€S€nts 
the 2nb annual welcome week. 
~RI · .Class piCniCS-to B€ announc€0 ffiOVIe "ammai CRaCk€Rs" 7 ,9, 11 pm €nq. auo. $1 
Sat the poilsh Webb1nq 

St€pan C€nt€R 9-1 am $2 abmiSSIOn mUSIC BY ~R€€ Wh€€lln ffiOVIe "3-mmal CRaCk€RS" 7,9,11 pm €nq. aub. $1 
Milano's Pizza 
815 W. McKinley Mishawaka Welcome Back 

N.D. and SMC Students 
Th1s weekend special (Have a party) 
Buy a 14" Pizza 

get a 9" Cheese Pizza FREE 

We Deliver Call 256-1853 Sun thru Thurs 4-11 Fri & Sat 4-1pm Closed Mondays Offer Good Fr1, Sat,and s· Aug 31 to Sept 2nd t!:~~~.___. 
The Observer 'Friday, Au~ust 31, 1979 ·-pa~e 3 
Police charge IRA member in murder 
DUBUN ,Ireland (.AP) Irish authorities charged an aHeged IRA. timebomb expert and another man with murder in the slaying of Britain's Earl Mountbatten, killed when his boat has blown up in Donegal Bay. 
Police said they also rounded up an unspecified number of men for questioning in an overnight swoop through Coun­ty Donegal. 
Francis McGirl, a 24-year-old farmer, and Thomas McMahon, 31, an upholsterer -both al­leged members of the illegal Irlsh Republican Army's Pro­visional wing -stood before a judge for just 41h minutes in Dublin's special no-jury court for terrorist cases. 
The charges accused them of "on Aug. 27, in Donegal Bay in Mullaghmore, County Bltgo, murdering Lord Louis Mount­batten contrary to public law." Two members of Mountbat­ten's family and a local teen­
, age boat hand were also killed in last Monday's boat explosion for which the IRA climbed responsibility. McGirl and McMahon, who were not charged in the other deaths, were ordered held until Oct. 2 for a hearing. Security sources said they regarded McNahon as an ac­knowledged expert on time­bomb mechanisms. McGirl' s uncle, John Joe McGirt, was once one of the top six men in the Provisionals' chief policy­makin~ council. McGrrl and McNahon were picked up by police at an antiterronst checkpoint along a road in northwestern Ireland several hours before the bomb blast splintered Mountbatten' s boat. If they were involved, it apparently means either that others took part in the killings or the bomb -an estimated 50 pounds of explosives -was triggered by a timing device or by contact. Police have theorized the ex­plosives might have been plant­

ed in a locker on the boat or in one of the lobster pots checked regularly by Lord Mountbatten, 79-year-old cousin of Queen Elizabeth II, during his annual holiday at MuJlaghmore. 
Monday was the bloodiestday in the 10 years of underground warfare by the IRA., fighting to end British rule in Northern Ireland. · Later that day, 18 British soldiers were killed in two bomb explosions in North­ern Ireland for which the Irish guerillas were blamed. 
The desert table at St. Mary's picnic yesterday proved to be a popular spot. 


Ship loses control-; r-ams butane barge 
GOOD HOPE, La. (AP) -A involved -43 on the ship, 1 on Peruvian ship coming down the the barge, 3 on the dock, 1 on Missippi River veered out of the barge, 3 on th<e tug, said control yesterday and rammed Coast Guard Lt. Tom Pearson. a big butane tank barge, setting "Of that 48, we have accounted off a huge frreball. Officials for 39, with 13 of them still in said four crewmen died, three the hospital. The other 26 ere persons were missing and 20 treated and released, or were were hospitalized. not badly injured." 
The barge, torn from the Coast Guardsmen wearing Good Hope Refinery loading fire coats and eguipped with air dock by the impact of the packs were assigned to search 514-foot Inca Tupwc Yu.eanqui, the ship for fear that some men drifted downstream, bdlowmg might be trapped inside, shield­flame . .At the loading dock, the ed by fireproof bulkheads but tug Captain Norman burned. ' unable to get out until rescuers 
Last night, the frre-blackened pry open the hatchways. ship still was too hot for rescue Three of six buta111e tanks on teams to search it for the the barge, each about the size missing men. of a railroad tank:car, were 
the student union social commission
. tequests the honot of your presence at the second annual 


POLISH WEDDING 
saturday, sept 1st 9-1 am Stepan Center 
J2 admission. price Includes ftee munchies, soft dtlnks, polish cuisine, wedding cake, and btlde and gtoom 

''They just got the fire out,. ripped from the barge and ....,....,.,_...,._,.,_...,.-41,_.....,_.~....,4~.......~....,4"-....,_..~ and I doubt that anyone will be . thrown into the river. going down in there tonight," said Alan Bark, a Coast Guard duty officer. 
About 300 people living in riverside subdivisions three miles downstream were order­ed evacuated when the barge wedged against the riverbank, burning kike runaway blow­torch. They were taken to shelters. 
Accounting for survivors at the chaotic scene took hours. "A total of 48 people were 


Attention ND-SMC Students 
Scholastic magazine is holding the staff 
organizational meeting _ at 6.:30 pm in the Scholastic office in -Lafortune. Writers, artists, and layout workers are needed. Join In Ill 
-----------------~
I th€ OBS€RV€R. I 
I IS tookJn<i ~OR a I I S€niOR copy €0JtOR II (€tntoRJal soaRO position) I I I 
I for info: call Rosemary,I 
I 
1715 1 I application b€ablln€ I 5 pm auq. 31 
I 
~t~· I 




-----------------· 
The Observer 
-The Observer._ 
&x Q Notre Dame, IN 465J6 
We require photographers. 
, ~ 
,
, 
r 
r 
~ ~ 


THE PYRAMIDS), ROME (AUOtENCE WITH POPE). 
Pl€as€ senb $200 OOpOSit sy S€pt. 15th, 1979 to: tou~ Plan lnt€~nattonal Inc. 
1925 k st~€€t  nw  (202) 785-2638  
Washtn(jton, O·C·  20006  
exttement!  mysttQU€!!  

ooyssey!! 
Friday, August 31 , 1979 -pa_g4~4 
21 years later 
Police officer pleads guilty 
Bell said. ''The black commun­
ity knew. We rallied. We 
marched and nobody listened. 
Now the rest of Milwauke 
knows." 
The shooting touched off prot­est demonstrations by members of the black community, but Grady was cleared of wrong doings. An inquest was told that~he victim was "A hold-up man ' and had lungea at Grady with a knife. 
The case was secretly reopen­ed last year, officials said, after Grady's former partner came forward with the information that Bell was shot while fleeing from a traffic investigation and that Grady planted a jacknife in the dead victim's hand. 
District attorney E. Michael McCann said two superiors who knew the truth and who pursu­aded partner Louis G. Krause. to go along with a doctored report are now dead. 
McCann did not identify them. and said no other officer who may have known the truth is any longer with the depart­ment. 



ARMY ROTC PROVIDES 
:merit scholarships-up to $20,000 Illileadership development : management training
*


i adventureiemployment opportunity 
.Graduate·rrom Notre Dame as an Army Officer 

CALL(219) 283-6264 
,.. -,.·., .......

.... ........ ... ·.·~·........-...........·.· ~...·. ·..· · ..·...·.·.·..... ~ .....·..·........ ~· 
A complaint said Krause, no ·48, disclosed that Bell was running with his back to Grad 
when shot. 

Krause "has thought about 
the matter, and it has haunted 
him and deeply troubled him 
for many years,'' the complaint 
said. 

It said he told his superiors the truth at the time of the shooting, but that,'' they convinced him to 
change his story to match what 
Gradv had told them." 
Grady flew to Milwauke 
trom Colorado wtth an attorney. 
He pleaded guilty to homiscide 
by reckless conduct and to 
perjury. 

Judge Ted. E. WedemeyerJr. 
scheduled sentencing for Oct. 
30. 

Grady, who declined to talk to 
reporters, was freed on $50,000 
personal bond. 

Grady and Krause left the 
force a few months after the 
Bell incident. Krause was 
dismissed after being involved 
in a tavern scuffle while off .. 
duty. Authorities said that Gra-' 
dy left the department during 
an investigation into allegations 
that he had dated a married 
woman. 

Obud plans organization 
meeting 
The Ombudsman Service will 
hold an organizational meeting 
Sunday, at 7 p.m., in the La 
Fortune Ballroom for anyone 
interested in joining the Om­
budsman Servtce. 
The Ombudsman is an infor­
mation service and an investi­
gator of complaints. In recent 
years, the Service has assumed 
the responsibility of conducting 
campus elections, and has had 
an active role in putting into 
action ideas submitted by stu­dents, is conducted every year by the Ombudsman Servtce. 
The Ombudsman Service mans a phone line Monday through Thursday from 10:00 to midnight, Friday from 10:00 
a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and Sunday from noon until midnight. Students, faculty, and staff members can get answers to their q_uestions or register a complatnt through the phone servtce. 

~---~ 
The Observer Friday, August 31, 1979 -page5 
Series begins Tuesday 
~ ,~Politics, arts subjects of lectlLires ,,
A series of public lectures at --''The Wordsworthian Poet: --"Henry Sidgwick:· The 
1

Notre Dame this fall entitled, Pigmy, Prophet, and Seer Professionalization of Moral ''Evolutionary Images of B\est,~' by Dr. Gene Bernstein, Consciousness" by Dr. David Today' t'llllt Sl/PtR ,1 Humanity," will explore select­a~sistant $12 Solomon, associate professor of Happy Hour 25 , ed works in politics, literature, professor of English on Tues­'philosophy on Tuesday, Nov. cent drafts & 50 ,
cent bar drinks

art and science in the 19th day, Sept. 18, in the Galvin 27, in the Memorial Library ,
! Midnite special: 25

century. auditorium. 8 o.m. auditorium lounge, 8 p.m. l The series opens Tuesday --."Karl Marx: Labor, Class, 
l~~e.Bud drafts andBR•u.;•rs.. 1s owNED-Iii' N.D ..

with a discussion of ''Adam and the Develop.nent of Soci­R'b SM C. GRADS--TillS IS OUR WAY OF
Saturday: C0C0 1 e SAYING WE"RE GLAD TO HAVE YOU

Smith: the Evolution of 'The ety," by Lawrence Simon, visit­Wlth raffle • BACK & WISH YOU AGREAT YEAR• 
Invisible Hand'" by Dr. ing instructor in philosophy, on 


Voll plarts l
Stephen Worland, professor of Tuesday, Oct. 2, ip the Galvin 
economics, beginning at 8 p.m. in the Galvin Life Science Center auditorium. 
The lectures are sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters and the Department of Philosophy and supported by a grant from the Nattonal Endow­ment for the Humanities. The series complements an under­graduate .course directed by Dr. Edward Manier, associate pro­fessor of philosophy, Dr. ) ames 
P. Dougherty, associate pro­fessor of English, and Dr. Marjorie Kinsey, adjunct assis­tant professor of art. Gleason and Solomon are project consul­tants. . 
Other talks will include: 
ND.forms 


Friends o_f Museum 
Notre Dame has announced the formation of the Friends of the Snite Museum of Art, designed to encourage partici­pation in the programs that will become available when the new campus art facility is opened to the public in the fall of 1980. 
The Snite Museum adds some 52,000 feet to the existing O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery and will be arranged to offer a chronological survey of 2, 500 years of significant achieve­ments in the vicual arts, accord­ing to its director, Dr. Dean A. Porter. The principal benefac­tion behind the museum is a two million dollar gift from the Fred. B. Snite Foundation of Chicago. 

Several membership categories, ranging from 5 dol-· Iars for students and seniors citizens to. 1 ,000 dollars for donors, will offer such services as invitations to previews; ac­cess to special lectures, reci­tals, seminars and other new programs; use of the museum library, and free subscriptions to museum publications and exhibity guides. 

Championship Chess round 

The first round of the Indiana Chess Cham,Pionship begins tomorrow wtth registration from 11 a.m. to noon in South Bend's Century· Center. Play­ers must be members of the Indiana State Chess Association or their State Association. 
The first two rounds will be at Century Center, rounds three and four will be in Stepan Center, and the final rounds will be at Randall's Inn on 130 Dixie Way South. 
auditonum, 8 p.ni. 
--"T.H. Huxley's Vision of Science and Religton'' by David Roos, Northwestern University Department of English on Monday, Oct. 15, in the Galvin auditorium, 8 p.m. 
--"Social Darwinism in Early American Sociology" by Dr. David Lewis, assistant profes­sor of sociolgy and anthropol­ogy on Tuesday, Oct. 30, in the Galvin auditonum, 8 p.m. 
--''History and Modernity: Intellectual Perspective and Institutional Context" by Dr. Philip Gleason, professor of history on Tuesday, Nov. 8 in the Library auditorium lounge, 8 p.m. 
--''Emerson and Greenough: Prose, Poetry and Sculpture" by Dr. John J. McDonald, associate professor of English on Wednesdav, Nov. 14 in the Center for Continuing Educa­tion audiovisual theater, 8 p.m. 


welcoming 

A Notre Dame-Saint Mary's "Welcome Back" party, spon­sored by Barney Voll, N.D. junior from South Bend, is scheduled for Friday, Sept. 7, from 7:30 to 12:30 p.m. at the Old South Bend Train Station. Admission is $4 per person will all proceeds going to. the Uni­versity's scholarship fund. 
A live band, Lethal, will provide the music and refresh­ments will be served. Tim Hanlon, a South Bend magic­ian will preform. Chartered buses will leave from the Circle at Notre Dame and Le Mans at Sanint Mary's at 7:30 and at 30-minute intervals thereafter. 
:;:ww;;::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::;;::;:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::;:::::::::::::~ 
!l~r notRe Oame-Satnt maRy'sl~li 
f. theatRe I 
announC€stRyouts~on 
William Shak€SP€aR€'s 


hamlet
* * ~eatun1nG. quest ant1s~ lance Oav1s as hamlet** 
rRI. au4 31 7-10 pm ~~~~ Sat, S€pt. 1 1-5 pm ~~\~ \~\~ Callsacks, Sun. S€pt. 2 at 1 pm ~I 
\\\\ Wash1nqton hall (nO camous--I: 
t . Please use sack sta1ns) t 
t\ InstRUctions: Reab play. Wean t 
t: cloth_J.f'l(j ~o~.. movennent. t 
:•w•w:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:::~:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::~:~:~::::::::::;:::::::::;:::::;:;:::;:;:::::::;"!;::. 
FIGHT INFLATION 10% Discount on a.ll shoe repa.irs zipper repa.lrs a.nd lea.thr repa.irs 
We ccuty many styies of boots 
aiso, Converse tennis shoes 

Tony's Shoe Shop 

-University of Notre Da.me 283-1144 Houts: on-Ftl 8-5. Sat 8:.1 
matt1ss€ m1Ro mon€t 0€Gas (jauGum 
~1ne aRt PRint exhiBition & sate 



lastOay! 
~RIOay· 8/31 
350 Ol~~eRent PRints t25 masteR aRtists tow stuOent PRices 
lai:ontune Stubent C€nten lossy 'til 5:00 pm Only! SponsOR€b BY Stub€nt Umon & Stub€nt act1VIti€S 
(Japan€S€ aRtiSts) kl€€ lautR€C Bosch BRU€Gh€l C€zann€ 
s 
::: ~­
0 

, ~ 
,

,
,
,

,
,
, 
,
' 
1 
1 1 

1 
1 1 1 
1 1 
1 
1 1 
1 1 
1 1 
1 
1 
1 1 
, 1 1 1 
... 
-~----------­

-----~--~---------------­
.. 
The Obs"erver Friday, Au,gust 31, 1979 -pa,ge 6 

What 's All This, Then? 
CINEMA---ON CAMPUS 
Animal Crackers at 7, 9, and 11:30 pm on Aug­ust 31 and September 1. Engineering Auditorium. Admission $1.00. The Marx Brothers become involved with a valuable painting which has. been lost in t~e spacious Rittenhouse manston. Groucho 1s ] effery SpauJdmg, a big game hunter, w~o orgamzes a spec1al hunt for the artwork whde Harpo and Chico play bridge with Mrs. Ritten­house, played by Margaret Dumont. This is possibly the funniest Marx Brothers' movie; the song, "Horray for Captain Spaulding" is def­initely their best and became Groucho's "theme". 1930. 
•Cittzen Kane at 7:30 pm on September 3. Washington Hall. Part of the ND/SMC film series. Orson Welles' film about the growth and life of a wealthy newspaper publisher, Charles Foster Kane. It set a precedent for a series of recollections out of chronological order used in 

Mark Ferron 
biograJ?hy. The film won an Oscar in 1941 for the best ongmal screenplay and remains highly placc~d in polls of the best film ever made. 
Dirty Ha1"11 at 7, 9, 11 pm on September 4 and 5. Engineenng Auditorium. Admission $1.00. Clint Eastwood is Dirty Harry, a tough San Francisco plainclothesman who tries to nd the city of a maniacal murderer, foil a full-scale bank robbery and prevent a high-jumpin~ suicide attempt. However, in the end his vtolent and "illegal" methods do Harry in professionally. 1972. 
Tight Little Island at 7:30 pm on September 6. Washington Hall. Part of the ND/SMC film series. English comedy about the cute situation facing the tiny Hebridean island of Toddy when its wartime ration of whisky runs out and the ship from the mainland arrives without the desperately needed "elixir of life." 1949. 
CINEMA---OFF CAMPUS . 
L:=::::.;;;:;::::..:;;:.:..::,..::;;:.;;;.;;;;~;=...:.;..;;;~.;.;.;;;...;;;;.;_________________,The Muppet Movie at l:30, 
aunERFLY CHAIR 

silkscreens from $7.99 to $19.99 
mutols 8ft. 81n. x 12ft. 139.99 
100 Center mishawaka 
$34.99 $2.00-Off 

with this coupon 
colors: yellow brown chestnut black 

THE LIFESTYLE FURNITURE COMPANY 


CRfATiVF 



Follow Notre Dame football in the 
ChicagoTribune 
-And the fastest way to get the SOOI'8 is to have The Tribune delivered right to your door each morning. Order the Midwest's most oomplete newspaper during Fait Regislration at: 
call Richard Flaherty 
283-8689 Girls-The Tn'bune will be delivered to your door this year. 



3:30, 5:30, 7:30, and 9:30. Town and Country 1. Kermi· 
Miss Piggy, Fozzie Bear, anc· 
all the gang make their way across the country to Hollywood 

o make it as big stars. Along he way they are pursued by the wner of a chain of Colonel anders'-like frogleg shops. 'he Fnsco Kzd at 1:45, 5:50, nd 9:50. Town and Countyr 2. tars Gene Wilder and Harr­
son Ford. 

[contt"nued on page 7) 
Darby's Place _to open 
Darby's Place, Notre Damc~·s late-ni~ht coffee shop, will begin u's semester Wednesday at midnight in the LaFortune basement. Darby's is usually open from midnight to 4 a.m. Sunday throu~h Thursdays. 
Darby's wdl offer coffee, soda, donuts and other snacks and is staffed by proprietor Darby O'Gill and his aide-de­camp, Fr. Robert Griffin. 
Welcome Back Tom! We missed ya. 
~1477 

• 
c " ~ 
<0 
-zv
...-r c(<{
... !:?z 
:t<{ 
-
~0 
-
G ~2-:t•" rrc" 
oz
.. 
... zw 
II) 
0 :z:
0
-
1 
·~--g• 
.; ' • I 
• 


-· 
Friday, Au,gust 31, 1979 -pa,ge 7




Features 
LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 
A Joy Until Sunrise 
At night, in Manhattan this summer, like a cosmetic, ~akes the peach and you would walk from Greenwich Vii-· resumes her pacmg, lunching on the 
lage to 59th street, along Seventh Avenue, and you would try to remem­ber what the Dome looks like when the sky turns a midnight blue in the summer sky over Indiana. On Seventh Avenue, Notre Dame seems as remote as the kingdoms you dream of in sleep, but New York is as close as a woman you have hired to share intimacy: temptingJou to love her, then denymg your nee for gentleness and accep­tance, like a call-girl who knows you can't pay enough. On lower Seventh Avenue, only St. Vincent's hospital is comforting to see; because a year ago, at St. Vincent's, they saved your life. The sidewalks are crowded with shadows until you reach 31st street, and the buildin~s in darkness have the bleakness of .{>nson walls. 
No one nottces you, and no one speaks, except near 23rd street where a toothless man, sitting on steps, asks: 
"Would you like to have a date with me?'' You feel sorry for him as you shake your head no. 
At 33rd street, you sit down on the embankment in front of Penn Station, smoke a cigarette, and watch the crowd. A woman, barefoot and dirty, walks up and down the sidewalk on her tiptoes, as though she were a house detective being cautious in a store stocked with gnef. A tiny lady dressed nattily in bib overalls ·-a shopping bag lady with style--pushes a cart crowded with bundles past you. ] ust down the embankment, she spreads out a news­paper to sit on; then, made comfort­able, she searches through the plastic sacks until she fmds a bag of peaches. Sorting them out for bruises, she picks out one, beckons to the lady in grief, and offers her the peach. Nijinska of t~e sidewalk, with dirt caked to her 
Groucho, Harpo, Chico. 
If you're one of those filin viewers who lumps the Marx Brothers, the Three Stooges, Abbot and Costello, and the Bowery Boys inyto opne homogeneous cate~ory called, simply. "Comedy Teams, ' then I beg you, read no further. There is about as much similarity between the freres Marx and the Three Stooges as there is betweem Buster Keaton and Pinkie Lee. 
During their peak Broadway and HollywOod days(1924-1935), the Marx Bros. were the hottest comedy team known to civilization. Soon after they burst into the bi~time with tie 1924 hit, I'll Say She Is, 1t became very chic to quote the latest Groucho-isms and 
recount what new and naughty things Harpo and Chico were up to. Groucho's lightning wit, sprinkled with puns, nonsequiturs and double entendres appealed to the intellectual and sophisticated crowd; Chico's mus­ical talent for "shooting the keys" earned the admiration of many lady viewe~, w~ile the broader, more slapstick antics of Harpo were appla­uded by ev~ryone. 
After thetr ftrSt Broa_dway success, 
the brothers followed With The CocOI.nulabout plots to steal the as well 
in  1926,  which  broke  all  kinds  of  
[continued from page 6]  
Alien at 7, 9:30 and 11 p.m.  Forum I.  

This highly suspenseful sci-fi ~lm will scare you out of your spacesuits. 
The Kids Are Alright at 7 and 9:20. Forum II. Features 'The Who" doing what "The Who" do. 
Breaking Away at 7:15 and 9:40. Forum II. This movie was filmed at IU, which explains the title. 
Meatballs at 7:30 and 9:30. Boiler House Flix. Bill of ''Satur­as a trivial love but 

day Night Live'' tries to emulate his co-worker] ohn Belushi in a summer camp. A thoroughly disappointing film. 
Star Wars at 7 and 9:30. Boiler House Flix. For the half-dozen or so people who have not seen it, this is enjoyable fantasy. 
The Amityville Horror at 2:15, 4:50, 
7:40 and 9:50. University Park I. A real scare 'em with James Brolin, M<~'r"'~" IC.dder and Rod ""~''"~r 
attendan£e records. By"thetime that George S. Kaufman, the all-time deao of American playwrights, wrote Anim­al Crackers with his collaborator Morrie Ryskind, the Marxes were the toast of the town. 
It seemed inevitable that the Marx Bros. would eventually turn to filin. And with the commotion caused be AI ]olson's The jazz Singer, it became apparent that verbal humor such as Marx's was,"in;" silent comedv was out. their first movie, :The Cocoa-r 
nuts(1929) was little more than a filmed copy of the stage show. zsimilarly, Animal Crackers, '{1930), is merely the film version of the hit Broadway production. 
Animal Crackers takes place at the fashionable Long . Island mansion of Mrs. Arabella Rittenhouse, a rich socialite, amicable portrayed by the Marx's favorite foil, Margaret Du­mont. The thin plot concerns Mrs. Rittenhouse's attempts to create the social hit ofthe season by uncoverin~ a famous painting at her home while also sponsoring the incorrigible Capt­ain Spaulding, the famed African explorer. There is some nonsense fruit as though it, too, were a part of her brooding sorrow. 
Musing on the mystery of who people are, and where do they come from, you journey on to Times Square, moving past the vendors peddling foods or toys, stopping at 45th street to listen to a Muslim preaching a mean-tempered God who rip§ the wings off airplanes as a punishment to arrogance. You pass the honky-tonk stores going out of business and the hustlers beginning the business of the riight. You visit the statues of George M. Cohan, giving his regards to Broadway, and Fr. Duffy at 47th street; then, on up the sidewalk, now darker, leading to Central Park, with time out to press your nose against the delis where bagels are sold, and to read the programs for the fall season at Carnegie Hall. 
At 59th street, you walk east on the promenade running the length of the park, to enjoy the cool of the darkness under the trees. Hansom cabs line up along the curb. You want to pat a horse, but the horses look too tired to be friendly. You stroke them only on the rear end, where the tail would be less vicious than the teeth in discoura­ging ·unwanted affection. 
At the Plaza Hotel, you stop in the restroom for the pause that refreshes. As you walk past the entrance to the Oak Bar, a stunningly dressed woman says, "Good evening," in a voice full of promises. You remember the line: ''A thing of beauty is a joy... until sunrise." 
"Anyway," you think, feeling com-· plimented, ''I must be doing some­thing right, because she looked expen­sive, and sounded sincere." 
In front of the Plaza, yo~ sit on a bench, smoking, and staring at the facade ofthe hotel, which reminds you 
1of t.he way buildings look in Paris, and at the fountain made famous by the midnight immersions of Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald. The General Motors building is behind you; turning your head, you can see F.A.O. Schwartz's toy store. The glamour of New York stretches down Fifth A venue from this point: Tiffany's, Steuben's, St. Tho­m~Ls the Apostle church, St. Patrick's, Rockefeller Center, the stone lions of the Public Library, the Empire State Building. You think: "Ofall the night scenes, I love this the best." 
To touch your feet to earth again, you try to think dearly of the Dome, a memory, it seems, necessary to be grasped at, or you c'an never go home again. Thoughts of the campus are elusive, like a face you are trying to match with a name when you've been aoaethetized by a drink. The senses begin their surrender to the seduction of a fairyland kingdom. You are hooked on the City; totally in love with the night face of New York. 
For half an hour, smoking an unbro­ken chain of cigarettes, you sit enslaved as a skyscraper junkie, in servile bondage to the stone and steel of structures that twinkle with lights like a Milky Way laid out for an astronaut's journey. 
Walking down Fifth A venue, home to the rectory, humming with happiness, like a cowboy ridin~ back from the roundup,you begin smging the words of your song. 
Me and my shadow, strolling down the avenue-­Me and my shadow, with nobody to tell our troubles to. And when it's twelve o'clock, we climb the stair; We never knock--there's nobody 
• and sometimes Zeppo
• 


,everything works together as a m~­nificent vehicle for the Marxian antics. Groucho is in top form portraying-his most well-known alter ego, Captain Jeffery T. Spaulding. ( The "T" stands for Edgar). He qwps, cajoles, and otherwise verbally assaults Mrs. Rittenhouse and all of her guests. He quickly sees through their pretentious facades, but he beats them at their own game by drawing on their willingness to be duped. They refuse to see through his fraudulency, even when he discusses his • bravery but then faints at the sight of a catepillar. 
Groucho delivers some of his most 
famous lines in this filin. In the classic 
"african lecture" routine , he proc­
laims,"One morning I shot an ele­

phant in my pajamas. How he got in 
my lfiharsas, I don't know." WHEN HE HIS AUDIENCE THAT* 
"Mrs, Rittenhouse hastily concludes the speech for him. Pretty risky stuff for 1930. By the film's end, Groucho manages . to lampoon everything from 'the ailing stock market to Eugene 
Rev. 
Griffin 
there But me and my shadow, all alone and feeling blue. 
Near 42nd street, in a doorway as deep as a cave, a young woman sits, ,very drunk or very stoned. "Hey there," she says, "you walking by with acane,you look lonely. Come in here and share your loneliness with me." Her tone makes her words lyrical, like a poem expressive of caring and concern. You apologize for not stoppin~, and she nods her head understandmgly. 
"Me and my shadow, all alone and feeling blue." The invitation that sounded like a poem, you realize, was real with the only promise the City could deliver on. Everything else was poetry that would melt with the sunrise. The night magic of New York was an enchantment mviting you ;o nothing substantial you could ever put your arms around. 
In Manhattan, when the moon is bright, you have to think of things you can put your arms around if you want Notre Dame to seem more real than the kingdoms visited in sleep. 
Hemingway writes: "If you are lucky enough to have lived in Paris as a young man, then wherever you go for the rest of your life, it stays with you, for Paris is a moveable feast.'' 
Notre Dame, you decide, is also a moveable feast. It is a feast as moveable as you need it to be, travelling with you as a landscape of the heart when other places let you down. Moonbeams, on the campus or on the Chrysler building, are only bneflyimportant. Only the things you can put your arms around are lastingly important. You can't put your arms around a shadow, when you're strol­ling down an avenue. 
Tom Hamel 

O'Neill. ) 
Chico plays Emmanuel Ravelli, a musician who offers to play, "an original composition by Victor Hub­ert." Unfortunately he can't recall the ending of the song and has to repeat the same bars over and over again. He confides that sometimes he has to play for weeks before he can remember the 
finish. , 
Harpo makes his entry into the filin as ''The Professor'' although profess­or of what is never made dear. He walks in with a long flowing cape and top hat. When the butler removes Harpo's cape, he leaves the silent down standing there wearing only a tee shirt and boxer shorts. (Once during the /lay's Broadway run Harpo arrive late at the theatre and forgot to put on the trunks under the cape. When the butler removed his cape on stage, the embarassed com­edian was wearing only an athletic supporter, which promoted Groucho to 
. ad-lib to the audience, "Tomorrow night he's not wearin~ anvthing, so get your tickets early.' ' True to his nature, Harpo spends most of his spare time playing games and chasing blondes. 
The youngest brother, Zeppo, has only a minor role in the film as Horatio Jamison, Capt. Spaulding's secretary. 'nus is probably just as well, as his ~al talents were vastly overshad­owed by the professionalism of his older brothers. 
There is still much more to be said about Animal Crackers and the Marx Bros., but I don't want to spoil the film for you. Animal Crackers is sheer zaniness and hilarity at its best. As the adage goes, they just don't make 'eni like this anymore. Don't miss it. 
------~-----------~--~---­
The Observer Friday, Au,gust 31, 1979 -pa,ge 8 

timP and money problems such as com­pound interest, annui-QS6l '"'"""' ty payments, mortgage ~ ~~~;.;;::: ....' 
. "II ~,\11
Ioans, mvestment yre cs, '"''"'" amintization schedules ~= and more. · '~"'" 
markably powerful LCD slide-rule calcula­specialized power to handle the problems tor. Yet it's as thin as a pencil and weighs unique to your major. See the only three ounces! Bu::;in!'ss Analyst-II and the ~ 
Its GO versatile functions can help you Slimline Tl-50 at your college handle a wide range of college math prob­book,tore or other TI dealer lems. Capabilities include common and today. 
Texas Instruments technology-bringing affordable electronics to your fingertips. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
·uS. suggested reta11 pnce ~· t979 Texas Instruments Incorporated INCORPORATED 45684 
Rabbi teaches 
Theo courses 
in Judaism 
by Mary Fran Callahan 

Rabbi Pincus Peli, a professor from Ben · Gurion University in Negev, Israel, is currently teaching courses in Judaism for the Notre Dame Theology De­partment. Professor Peh is the first rabbi to be invited to occupy such a position. 
The rabbi is offering two courses this semester, Prayer & Judaism and Religious Lang­uage. The courses will focus on Judaism rather than contrast or compare it with Christianity. 
Professor Peli anticipated no problems in terms of interest for his course offerings, "In order to understand Christiani­ty, one must _go back to its source--the Judaic roots. My courses will provide knowledge as well as sensitivity, so that a student of any religious prefer· ence stands to benefit." 
On the first day of classes, Professor Peli did not have enough chairs to accomodate all the students reg_istered for his course. 
In addition to broadening the students' minds, the rabbi is confident that Notre Dame will enrich his own mind. ''I came here because I felt it would be a great opportunity to learn as well as to teach," he said. 
The professor received his education at the Hebrew Uni­versity in Jerusalem and has been chairman of the Hebrew Literature Department for the last three of his ten years at Ben Gurion University. 
Theaters offer discount 
Discount movie passes for most of the South Bend area theatres can be purchased in advance from the Notre Dame Student Union Ticket Office. 
These tickets may be used by any Notre Dame faculty, staff member or student. 
The ticket office is located on the second floor of LaFortune and is open from 12:00-4:00 Monday thru Friday. 
. Hurricane 
cont. from page 1 

Dominica has a population of 31,000 with about 18,000 in Roseau, one of the poorest cities in the central Caribbean. Banana and citrus exports make up 70 percent of Dominica's gross national product, and loss · of the crop could cripple the island's reconstruction efforts. 
Seraphin said damage was most severe to fishing villages along the southern coast, where 90-9:, percent of the buildings were destroyed. He surveyed portions of the 290-square mile Island on a helicopter from the· British frigateHMSFife, which arrived at Roseau Thursday. 
Sailors from the Fife immed­iately be~an to repair the roof of the Pnncess Margaret Hosp­ital, which blew off Wednesday leaving the island without a major health care facility, ac­cording to amateur radio broad­casts. 
When you're working in a specialized field, you nPed a specialized calculator. That's why Texas lnstmments designed the Sli111li11e Bu~iness Analyst-II'" for busi­nPss and finance ... and the Sli111line TI­50 "' for science and math. Each provides the tailorPd power and thP reliability you'll rwed as .\'OU learn to solvP the problems you'll face as a JWofessional. And each has a price you'll appreciate as a student. 
Slimli11e Business Analyst-H. Sleek LCD calculator with versatile 
business capabilities. 

Solving financial problems with the Slimline Business Analvst-11 can make working with your old caiculator seem like fll'ncil-and-papcr arithmetic. The functions required to per·form many common bu5' · ness, financial and statistical calculations are built in to help you make quick, accurate evaluations of many complex business situations. 
Special financial keys are used to handle 
Statistical and linear regression capabili­ties provide the power you'll need to boil down data and automatically handle prob­lems such as sales and earnings forecasts. 
Profit margin calculations concerning cost, selling price and margin can be per­formed rapidly when any two of the varia­bles are known. Other features include a four-function data register with Constant Memory"' feature that retains its contents even when the calculator is turned otr: 1\vo miniature batteries provide up to two years ofoperation in normal use. And Tl's APD '" automatic power clown feature helps pre­vent accidental battery drain. 
The Business Analvst-II, with detailed owner's manual and s~ede-look vinyl wallet with pockets for notes, $-15.00*. 
The Slimli11e TI-50 packs 60 power­
ful functions into a handsome, compact package. 
The pocket-portable Slimline Tl-50 is are­natm·allogarithms. Six trigonom~tric oper­ations that can be performed in three angu­lar modes (degrees, radians or grads). 1\vo constant memories that retain their c-on­tents et•entchen the calculator is tumed o.tf. Ancl more. 
Seven built-in statistical functions sim­plify the task of boiling down large sets of data points so you can perform accurate analvses and draw reliable conclusions. 
Tfw power of the Sliwli11e TI-50 is made easy to use by TI's AOS "' algebraic operat-­ing system, which provides 15 sets of pa­rentheses and accepts up to four pending operations. That means you can enter most problems just as they're written, left to right. 
Tw<r miniature batteries provide up to two years of normal operation. And TI's APD '" automatic power down feature helps prevent accidental battery drain. 
The Sli111/i11e Tl-50 includes a detailed o\\·ner's manual anrl a dura111e vinyl wallet. $40.00*. 
Make sure your next calculator has the 
~~-----·----------------------------. 
The Observer 

Today should end t)lt; annual distribution for Football tickets. This group waited an hour 
and a half after arnvmg at 8:00a.m. 
Speech and Drama department announces fall film schedule 
Beginning Monday the Speech and Drama Depart-~­ment, in conjunction with its Awema Course 245, Interna­tional films. 
The films ill be presentede 

ev.ery  Monday  evening  in  
washington Hall  begiQ.ning  at  
7:30p.m.  

The first film will be Citizen Kane. 
Other films to be presented include 
Sept. 10 October 

Sept. 17 The Crime of M. t. Lange 
Sept. 24, Panther panholit. 

Oct. 1 Wizard of Oz Oct. 8, Grand Illusion Oct. 15, M. Hulots's Holiday nov. 5, Maltese Falcon Nov. 12, Lola Montez Nov. 19,Dodeska Ben Nov. 26 His Girl Friday 
Dec. 3, Tokly Story. 
Beginning Thursday, the Speech and Drama department in conjunction with Educational Medi, will present a series of 12 films by four great international directors -Alexasnder Mackendrick, Claude Jutra, Carol Reed, and Ermanno Olmi. 
The series will feature three films by each to be shown in succession weekly. Alexander 

HELP WANTED I 


River City Records ­
is now accepting applications for f·ull-time and part-time employment. 
contact.: Peter Kernan 
-· 50970 U.S. 31 North 277-4242 
~----------------·
1 Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor I 
~Georgetown Shopping Center (near Clra's1 
I Back to school Special I This coupon is good for $2.00
I 
towards purChase of any large pizza 
I towards pur~hasH£~~Y small pizza 
I Coupon good _now thr~ SeptemberI (Not_vahd for dehvenes) 
I Pizz~ • Sandwiches ~Salad Bar 1Servtn_g Beer and Vftne 1 7 days a week 
·I Wide screen TV ij I Luncheon Specials Daily -~ 
.. 
i Friday, August 31, 1979 -page 9 
LUTHERANS ON CAMPUS 
Come and ioin us for an informal !(atherin!( Sunda.v, September 2 6:30pm 
BULLA SHED 
an 
I 
1 

Mackendrick's film, Tight Little Island, will launch the season, followed by The Tokyo Killers and the Sweet Smell ofSuccess on the folloV'{ing two Thursdays respectively. 
The films will be shown every Thursday in Washington Hall at 
7:30 p.m. and admission is $1. 
Other films to be shown later include: Claude]utre Sept. 27, My uncle Antoine Oct. 4, Take it all 

any ol~= 01 tape C~ew tbtu "pt. 15)

with this coupon . . 
IS,OOO <llbUfll,!.~(ld tapeaJ,n stock . ~· ·. . . ;,v _ . , . ND/SmC att.J~ent checks accepted fot vp to 
I 1'3 120.00 ov~r .~urch~se ~nt ~~~~ Open 10 to 10, 1~~ ~ ~r' I lc~:~:: . until 10:00 
I li!l~ri: I I ,:: I Ill
I I 
I 1
J 

I j j 
J 
J j j 
4 
J 
j j 
l I 
I 
I 
j j 
J j 
-· ......... .,. ,.}1. • "'"' .. ~ .. _-•• ~ • -.., " 
The Observer Friday, August 31, 1979 -page 10 
Carter urges Blacks, Jews 
to unite 
Molarity 

Pigeons 

TAMPA • FLA. (AP) -Presi­dent Carter called on the na­tion's Blacks and Jews to put aside their differences yester­day and urged all Americans not to let, "divarsity ...degener-' ate into division.'' Carterhas himself confronted later by a small, noisy group of protest­ers. 
"In a time of trial we must not permit the le~itimate contest of competing vtews to become a war of group against grou.P, special interest against spectal interest, and finally each aga­inst all others." Caner told an audience at Emory University in Atlanta. 
Later, in an appearance at a town meeting here, Carter was interrupted by chants and 
aoTHES MITCH, ELITE MUSf DIIESS ELJTE, PON'T ~ 11iEY'LL 


shouts for protest~.. unfurled a banner, and shout-
The shouung erupted as Car-ed, "Stop the lies." ter was asked what plans he Uniformed police escorted the had to help poor families meet protesters from the auditorium the rising energy costs. but apparently took them into 
"It's a free country," the custody when the shouting president, in shinsleeves, said continued. as two members of a group A White House spokesman calling itself the ''Revolution-said he did not know unmediat­ary Communist Pany'' were ely whether the man and worn­ejected from the high school an had been placeed under ~ymnasiun. There was no arrest. There was no indication mdication that the protestors that the president was in any were connected with the man danger. Carter was greeted who asked the question. ' with extensive applause when 
During the protest, a young he asked the audtence's help in woman and man, appa.rently getting Congress to approve his pan of the Revolutionary proposed ''windfall profits'' oil Communist Party, intenupted tax the session by standing up and In the Atlanta address, Caner shouting chants. They stood up had said, "differing political in the audience of about 2,000 views, when and if they do 
by Michael Molinelli 


by McOure/Bymes 




Ne~s Stand 
CUSTOM WATERBED SHOP 
-o-
GAGS -CARDS NOVELITIES -GIFTS 
-0­
JEWELRY -GLASSES CLOTHING -LEATHER GOODS 

8l. General Store 
SINCE 
LITES-CANDLES INCENSE 
-0­

SMOKING PARAPHERNLIA 
PIPES -PAPER 
-a­
THEATRICAL MAKE UP MASKS 
AMPLE 

113 WEST MONROE ST. 
1961 

POSTERS DI;CALS -RUGS TAPESTIES BED SPREADS 
-a­

NEWSPAPERS BOOKS -COMICS MAGAZINES . 
PARKING 
ONE BLOCK WEST OF THE POST OFFICE 
exist, must not become the occasion for deep and damag­~$ divis~ons betw~en lf~oups of cttuens m our soctety. 
• • Policies 
cont. from page 1 

Roemer divided his keg and-­alcohol directives. 
Additionally, the board also decided last night that budget hearings will be held Septem­ber 27th and 30th. Sebaskv stated that they would have 
$132,000 to allocate this year. 
In the past the largest bene·· factors have been Student Union, Student Governmem and' the HPC. Any club or organization which is interested in receiving funds is asked to submit a detailed budget. 
''An individual could even apply for money if he had a worthwhile idea which may benefit the student body in some way," Roche said. All of the money comes from the $17 student activities fee paid at the beginning of the year. For this reason the board is trying to get away from awarding so much money to service organi­zations. 
Roche said that he would also like to redirect the financial requests of these groups to the Mardi Gras charity chest. 
A lengthy discussion then followed concerning the alloca­tions of funds. While some members suggested the Stu­dent Government closely con­trol the use of the funds, Roche said he was against such gov­ernment "meddling." 
The board is made up of the Student Body President, Stu· dent Body vice-president, the judicial coordinator, Hall Presi­dents Council chairperson, two HPC representatives, Student Body treasurer, Student Union director and the Off-Campus commissioner. The board will meet again on Thursday the 13th in the Grace penthouse . All meetings are open to the public. 


AIR-BEDS HOT-TUBS UNFINISHED FURNITURE 
-0­
ADULT BOOKS MAGAZINES NOVELTIES 
234-0388 
admirustration of either institution. 
Editorial Board 
The news is reported as accurately and 
_The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Features Editor .. Kathleen Connelly represent the opinton of a majoritr of Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian the-Editorial Board. Commentanes, Editorial Ediror ~· ......... Ann Gales 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 

opinions and letters are the views of Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewis 
The Obse1'1/er is an independent their authors. Column space rs avail­News Editor ............ Mark Rust Business Manager ...... Steve Odland newspaper published by students of able to all members of the community, News Editor .......... .Mike Shields Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan the Umversity of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying Saint Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Saint Mary's College. Ir does not opinions on campus, through leners, is Sports Editor ...........Mark Perry Advertising Manager ......Bob Rudy 
encouraged. Controller ..........Kevin Manion
necessarily reflect the policies of the 
-------~----------~----~------------------------------~ 

r 

The Observer -SportsBoard :Friday, August t31, 1979·-page 11 
Baseball 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

East  
Plttsbur~h Montrea Chicago St. Louis Philadelphia New York  w n 71 71 69 65 52  L 54 54 59 61 67 n  Pet. .588 .568 .546 .531 .492 .403  GB 3 5Y2 7¥2 12¥2 24  
Wilt  
Cincinnati  n  tf  .575  
Houston 75 Los Angeles 61 San Francisco 60 San Diego 57 Atlanta 53  I 17 11  .564 .459 .451 .425 .402  1¥2 15Y2 16¥2 20 23  

Thumlay's multi San Francisco 3, St. Louis 2 Chicago 4, Los Angeles 1 Frlday'sg1m11 
Cincinnati (Norman 1o-10) at Montreal (Schatzeder 9-4) Philadelphia (Lerch 7-11) at Atlanta (Briz­zolara 6-8), n New York (Swan 12-10) at Houston (K. Forsch 8-6), n St. Louis (Denny 7-10) at San Diego (Shirley 6-13), n Chicago (Krukow g.:g or Caudill o-5) at Los Angeles (Sutcliffe 12-9), n Pittsburgh (Kison 9-7) at San Francisco (Curtis 9-8), n 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
E1st  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Baltimore  87  44  .664  
Milwaukee Boston  81 n  54 53  .600 ..592  8 9Yz  
New York  71  59  .546  15Y2  
Detroit  73  61  .545  15Yz  
Cleveland  69  65  .515  19Y2  
Toronto  42  91  .316  46  
Wilt  
Kansas City  71  62  .534  
California Minnesota Texas Chicago Seattle Oakland  71 68 64 57 57 43  63 64 70 75 78 92  .530 .515 .478 .432 .422 .319  Y2 2Y2 7112 13¥2 15 29  
Wed., 12 -Exercise and weight control program begins, set for every Wednesday; Co-ree volleyball with Notre Dame begins, set for every Wednesday. 


ThumiQ's mults Seattle 8, Toronto 2 Texas 6, Boston 0 Baltimore 5, Minnesota 4 Cleveland 7, California 1 Kansas City 8, New York 3 Detroit 8, Oakland 7 
Milwaukee 4, Chicago 3, 12 innings 
Frlday'sg1m11 

Seattle (Dressier o-1) at Toronto (EdQ!I 2-1) Texas (Comer 13-9) at Boston (Torrez13-9), n Minnesota (Goltz 11-10) at Baltimore (Pal­mer 8-4), n California (Knapp 3-3) at Cleveland (Paxton7-7), n Kansas City (Spllttorff 13-10) at New York (John 17-6), n Oakland (Kingman 4-5) at Detroit (Wilcox11-6), n Milwaukee (Travers 12-5) at Chicago (Trout7-7), n 
Sports Briefs. ___ 
,Riggins ·returns to Redskins 
I 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Running back John Riggins returned to the 'Washington Redskins camp Thursday after being absent without permission 24 hours earlier because of a contract dispute. 
Riggins, the highest paid player on the team at$130 oooper year, was suspended Wednesday when he did not show up for team meetmgs and practice. The Redskins said he would be fined $500 and lose $2,500 a day in salary. It cost Riggins a total of $3,000. 
Air Force to .foin WAC 
DENVER (AP) -The Air Force Academy, an inJependent since its inception more-than twenty years ago, has been accepted for membership into the Western Athletic Conference effective July 1, 1980. 
Pacers choose assistant 
INDIANOPUS (AP) -Jack McCloskey, assistant coach of the Los Angeles Lakers the past three years, has been named an assistant with the Indiana Pacers Coach Bobby Leonard announced Thursday. 
McCloskey's appointment will 1free assistant coach Jerry Oliver for full time scouting with the National Basketball Association Team. 
Sl\1C Campus 
ST. MARY'S SEPTEMBER CALENDAR 
Sat., 1 -Registration begins for tennis'and racquetball ladders at AAf.. Sun., 2 -Freshman athletic games; Varsity basketball meeting at AAF. Mon., 3 " Ladder competition for students, faculty and staff begins. Sun., 9 -Activities and Athletics Night at AAF. 
Thur., 13 -Exercise and weight control program begins on Thursdays; Faculty volleyball and social. 
Fri., 14 -Deadline for Intramural tennis doubles tourney registration. Mon., 17 -Exercise and weight control pro­gram begins on Mondays. Wed., 19 -Co-ree volleyball with Notre Dame. Sat., 22 -Intramural tennis doubles tourna· ment. Sun., 23 -Intramural tennis doubles tournament. Wed., 26 -Co-ree volleyball with Notre Dame. 
Thur., 27 -Faculty volleyball and social. 
SJHl., 30 -Jog-a-thon for Fun 'n Learn (Learning Disabilities Program). 
· 

Football 
THIS WEEKEND IN THE N.F.L. 
Sllurday 
Detroit at Tampa Bay, n 
Sunday Atlanta at New Orleans Baltimore at Kansas City Cincinnati at Denver Cleveland at New York Jets Dallas at St. Louis Green Bay at Chicago Houston at Washington Miami at Buffalo New York Giants at Philadelphia Oakland at Los AnDeles San Diego at Seattle San Francisco at Minnesota 
Monday Pittsburgh at New England, n 
Football tix ready 
Football tickets will be avaible for all freshmen until 5:00p.m. by Gate 3 at the A.C.C. 
• • . Irish 

(continued from page 12) Unis, however, has no desire to play in the pros. "I've never considered prof­essional football,'' he states. ".I just don't think it's one ofmy options. I'm a finance major and I'm considering both law school and MBA :school after graduation.'' But right now, both players are worried about the business at hand winning football games ·for Notre Dame. They oelieve that1979 could be a very good ( year for the Irish. \ "We have a very auticult schedule and we have to take every game as it comes,'' offers Male. ~'But, we have a very good tc:~ w:ith. a very gQod attitude, "and l thin~ werll wur our share of football games.'' But not without a few good swift kicks. 











Observer sports staff picks order of finish tn NFL ·'faces 
-

Cr1lg Chval 
Brian Beglane

Flllnk LIGI'IIttl
Martt Perry Paul Mullaney Beth Huff1111n 
Mlchlel Ortma 

Dallas
Dallas Dallas Dallas 
Philadelphia

Philadelphia 
Philadelphia

Philadelphia
Philadelphia St. Louis St. Louis 

nailas 
Dallas 
Dallas 
St. Louis Washington. Philadelphia
NFC Ellt 

St. Louis 
Washington 
'washington
Washington
Washington Philadelphia Washington 

Washington 
St. Louis 
St. Louis 
St. Louis 

New York
New York New York . New York 

New York 
• New York 
New York 

Tampa Bay
Chicago Chicago Detroit 
. Green Bay

Detroit 
Chicago

Minnesota
Detroit Detroit Chicago 
'Minnesota

Tampa Bay 
Green Bay
NFC Cantril 

Chicago
Minnesota Green Bay Minnesota 
Tampa Bay

Green Bay 
Detroit

Green Bay
Tampa Bay Minnesota Green Bay 
Detroit

Minnesota 
Tampa Bay

Detroit
Green Bay Tampa Bay Tampa Bay 
Chicago

Chicago 
Minnesota 
Los Angeles 
Los Angeles Los Angeles 

Los Angeles 
Los Angeles 
Los Angeles 
Los Angeles
NFC Wast Atlanta 
Atlanta New Orleans 

New Orleans 
Atlanta · 
San Francisco 
Atlanta
New Orleans 
New Orleans Atlanta 

Atlanta 
New Orleans 
Atlanta 
New Orleans
San Francisco 
San Francisco San Francisco 

San Francisco 
San. Francisco 
New Orleans 
·San Francisco 
New England New England Miami 

New York
Miami 
Miami 
Miami
Miami Baltimore New England 

Miami
New England 
Baltimore 
Baltimore
Baltimore Miami Baltimore
AFC East 

New England
New York 
New England 
New England
" 
New York New York Buffalo 

Baltimore
Baltimore 
New York 
New York
Buffalo Buffalo New York 

Buffalo
Buffalo 
Buffalo 
Buffalo 
Pittsburgh Pittsburgh Pittsburgh 

Pittsburgh 
Pittsburgh 
Pittsburgh 
Pittsburgh
Cincinnati Houston Houston 

Houston 
Cincinnati 
Houston
AFC Central 
Houston
Houston Cincinnati Cleveland 

Cincinnati 
Houston 
Cincinnati 
Cincinnati
Cleveland Cleveland Cincinnati 

Cleveland 
Cleveland 
Cleveland 
Cleveland 

· San Diego 
San Diego

Seattle 
San Diego
Seattle San Diego Oakland 
San Diego Seattle Denver 

Seattle 
Denver

San Diego 
Seattle
AFC Wast 
Seattle

Oakland 
Oakland 
Denver
Oakland Denver Seattle 
Oakland

Denver 
Denver 
Oakland
Denver Oakland San Diego 
Kansas City

Kansas City 
Kansas City 
Kansas City
Kansas City Kansas City Kansas City 
~ 
..:..----­

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.. two days pcior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept class1fieds Monday through Friday. 10 00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All 
cla~sifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
Notices 
Interested In horsablckrldlng? We 11'11 looking for two students wHh some riding experience to lease 1 horse while owner goes abr01d for fill sematar. Stable location Is one mile from e~mpus. The horse Is 1 black Standardbllld mafll ridden English huntlllt. Cost: $35 IICh person per month. Call Llul'lln or Fr~ncolse 1t 234-49115. 
Morrissey loan Fund Student loans $20 to $200. lY2 Interest charge. Open M-F 11 :Jo-12:30. Base­ment of Lafortune. 
Typing In home. Fast, accurate, reason­abJe. Close by. Call272-4105 After 5p.m. 
Smlth&Co. Incredible Entertainment for your Plrtlas and torm1ls. Many dltes stellav1llable. Spacial Rates for bookings 1111d1 bllolll September 10. Call Brian now at m-3526 
Attention, MUSICIANS$ Sacred Heart Parish here on the campus I The congrag1tlon thlt worships In the Crypt] needs guitarist, wind players and singers for our 10:45 combo. It's aF1mlly Man fllturlng good contampolllry liturgy. PLEASE HELP! Call283-7511and ask for 
Mollie. Also, Sacred Hurt Plrlsh can use m111 1nd women's voices for the mofll fol'fllll 9:30 Sunday M1u. C1ll 283-7511 1ft1r 
1p.m. 1nd 11k tor Joe. 
lntamtad In tuchlng religion? Sacllld Heart Parish has a law openings for catechists In upper gr~des. Theology 1111Jors or experienced atechlsts prafar­llld for program which meats Sunday mornings 1t 9:15 and Is coordln1ted with NO calendar. C1ll 283-7511 and ask for Mallia. 
Lost & Found 
Found:  One  laundry  ticket  for  fall  
semester,  101761099171.  Call  7915 to  
claim.  

Lost: One set of keys on a ring with a Camaro emblem, probably near ')'Shag. Call Scott or Jo; 2n-o361 . 
For Rent 
Furnished country house for rent. About 9 minutes travel, private, huge lot, ideal for 3-6 people. 2n-3604 or 287-7018. 
HOUSE FOR RENT Easily accommodates 5-6 students. Call 256-2405. 
New one bedroom blsement 1pt, 111 
utiiiUII,  Plrldng,  quiet,  llfl.  $165,  
Deposit  $165.  612  N. Cushing  • off  
Portage.  289-1687.  

Wanted 
Part-time cocktail waitress needed for football weekends and occasional ban quets-must be 21. Apply In person after 
5:30 at THE OAR HOUSE, 231 Dixie Way 
·[US 31] North, Roseland, or call Mr. Cooper at 272-7818 for appointment. 
WANTED: used Banjo. Call Paula 7375. 
Clean-Up man needed-6days aweek-3-4 hours each morning. Call Jim at 233­0438. 
Tutor wanted for Spanlsl1 2-3 Hrs. /week. Call Chris 3596.· 
ATIENTION SERIOUS CHICAGO BEAR FANS! You can earn as much as $500 watching their regular season games this fall. If you are detail minded & enjoy keeping records, APPLY NOW to: the Football Research Corp. Dept 2, 6E 45th Street, New York, N.Y. 10017. 
WANTED: Lutheran students on cam­pus-Come and share In an Informal gathering at 6:30 p.m. lln Sunday, Sept.2, at Bulla Shed-Bulla & Juniper Roads.· 
Waitressess Wanted-full or part-time at Indiana's finest niteelub. Top pay-hourly 
+ , tips + commission. Apply at Vegetable Buddies downtown. You must be 21.· 
Male housemate wanted: $30 per month plus utilities. Close to campus. Call 288-2095. 
For Sale 
COMICS, new and old. DC, Marvel, Warren. Also Starlog, Future Life, etc. Discounts. 287-6920 evenings. 
FREE CATALOG. Avon jewelry, cosme­tics, Christmas gifts for women, men, and children. 287-6920 evenings. 
FOR SALE: Sofa, floor lamp, buffet stuffed chair, refrigerator. Call 289-9725. 
Tickets 
Want Season Football Passes. Will pay Good $. Call 8092. 
Oesparate for 2,3, or 4 GA tix to any home game for anniversary present. Call Bob at 1166. 
Personals 
Matt H., Matt R. So glad you're both around this year-makes life seem a little brighter. Beth and Patsy John M. thanks for being so helpful Wednesday--Sorry you had so many problems. Beth 
Dear Veil, 
I hope you have an excellent 20th Birthday, Girl! It's going to be a gooC: year. Happy Birthday! Love, 
Tom 

The Eight wishes each and every student amost prosperous and eventful semester. 
Signed Baretta, Dog Man, Ponce, Poodle, Shaef, Ty, Wyler, & Zon. I Kevin, too j. 
Maureen, your toes drive me wild with Passion. Could I please have one of your socks for under my pillow? -a secret ad­mirer 
Happy Birthday to Ramona Panas-a wonderful19 on Aug. 30! Love from: Ro, Melissa, Pam, Mel, Susie, Teri, Angie, Nancy, Julie, Mary, Michelle, and Ann. 
Christie, the underside of your hair Is 
probably the  most  sensuous  place  on  
campus. Can I be Yo ur comb?  the 'ole  
· Sourdough  •  

p.s. Your roommate 

is pretty areat herself.----­S.iurdiy Night: at Lee's-All friends 1nd pseudo friends will celebr~te the return of Joe C1m1rda, who will ba pl'll8nt and ltlndlng upright [It lust for the first Plrt of the evening(. Come. 
Annie Happy 6th! Love Floyd 

Friday, Au,gust 31, 1979 -pa,ge 12
S]2orts 
Irish kicking game will enjoy Male, Unis two-footed attack 
{P," claims Male, who began
''When I saw the way we wereby Frank LaGrotta 

9fcking soccer-style after obser­
coming back (Notre Dame had
Spons Writer ving Jan Stenerud of the Kan­
trailed Houston 34-12 with 7:25 Most football experts will tell left in the game before scoring sas City Chiefs. "What is 
important," says Unis, IS
you that, many times, the 23 unanswered points)1 I just 
simply attempts and attempts
difference between winning knew we were going to tie it up. 
made."
and losing is a good, swift When we did, I was oblivious 
Both Unis and Male give
kick ... to everything because I knew I 
plenty of credit to th<~ other
Throu~h the uprights, that is. had to concentrate on my job. I 
players involved in a successful
Well, if that's the case, then kicked the football and I knew it 
Notre Dame should be "double was good. Then I saw the field goal ~ttempt--namely the snapper and the holder. 
trouble" for their 1979 op­penalty flag." 
''Those two guys are vital to
ponents with both Joe Unis and The call was against Notre 
the success of any placekick­
Chuck Male set to handle the Dame and Unis was forced to 
er," emphasizes Male. "Thjey
legwork. The result should be kick again. 
don't get near enough credit."
plenty of three-pointers for the The second kick was even 
"Absolutely," says Unis. "I
Fighting Irish as well as a better than the first. 
would go as far to say that the
kicking game that ranks among "Oh yeah, I was happy," he 
snapper and the holder are
the nation's best. And no one is says. ''Not for myself but 
every bit as important as the
more aware of what that means because I had a chance to really 
kicker himself. And Chuck and 
than head coach Dan Devine. help the team and I didn't let 
myself are lucky in that we have
"Having two kickers the cali­them down. They had worked 
plenty of great players in both
ber of oJ oe and Chuck adds a so hard to come back that I come categories.''
whole dimension to our football thought I just had to team,'' Devine emphatically through." And what do Unis and Male 
have planned after they gradu­
points out. "Offensively they Which brings us to 1979 and a make us a scoring threat from situation where the Irish have ate? 
almost anywhere inside the two competent kickers to de­.'I suppose I'd like to give pend on. But, despite compet­professional football a try,''
opponent's territory and the 

says Male. "But I realize that
strength of their kickoffs will mg for the same job, Unis and 
placekickers come and go in the 
~ive us a defensive advantage Male remain close friends off 
NFL and I am not going to
m terms of field position.'' the field. 
be crushed if I don't make pro
This will be the second consec­"Oh, there's definitely compe­
ball. I'm going to get my
utive season that Unis and Male tition," smiles Unis, "but tt's 
accounting degree and look for Joe Unzs[99] and Chuck Male[4] are friendly n·vals in their
will more or less share the friendly competition. Chuck 
a career in business." battle for Insh placekicking chores. 
placekicking duties with both and I coach each other in seeing considerable action in practice and we both want to (continued on page 11} [Photo by Beth Prezio] 1978. Unis started last season see the other one do well." as Notre Dame's number one "That's right," agrees Male. 
Predictions -1979
placekicker before giving way ''The im{>ortant thing is getting to walk-on Male in the Air three potnts for the team, not Force game. Male, a transfer worrying about who kicks it." 
Steelers , Dolphins to pace AFC 
student from Western Mich­Both players insist that team 
Igan, proceeded to convert all victories mean much more to by Michael Ortman ~ack and G~ay will bolster a sagging offensive 14 of his PAT attempts and hit them than any persona} accom­Sports Writer lme. Pastonm and Campbell have patched their nine of 12 field goal tries plishments. But, while their bumps and bruises, and "Bum" Phillips has a including a 47-yarder against attitudes are similar, their kick­Last sprin~ I put my head on the chopping new cowboy hat. Terry Bradshaw··needs 
Miami which was the longest of ing styles are totally different. block and p1cked the Chicago Cubs to finish another banner year to keep the oilers where his career. His three field goals Male, a soccer-style kicker, founh in their division. A neighbor put my they belong. . 
against Tennessee tied a Notre discusses the difference be­obituary on his door. The Cubs are still alive, Ho-hum ... the rest of the division. Cincinnati Dame record for the most field tween that method and the and I'm counting my blessings. has no where to go but up after the disaster of goals in a single game. conventional toe kick employed So here we go again. Please, no threatening '78, but with three first-round picks, you go up Unis got a second chance by Unis. , . • .,. phone calls. in a hurry. Rookies Jack Thompson and Charles when Male pulled a leg muscle r''The major difference,'t he AFCE..1.ST Alexander will help immediately on offense and a~ainst Georgia Tech and was explains, "is that a soccer-style This division should be almost the same as it a healthy Ross Browner will anchor the defense. stdelined for the remainder of kicker hits the ball off his instep was in '78. I said almost. The Baltimore Colts Lyle Alzado realized he wasn't Superman and 
the season. He proceeded to while a conventional kicker hits will be the most improved team in the division decided to stay in football, but he so angered the make the most of his opportuni­it square off his toe." with a healthy Bert Jones, and sue.er back-up in gods that he was dumped in Cleveland. 
ty converting two field goals of ''A toe-kicker gets his Greg Landry, a more experienced joe Washmg: Nevertheless, he can't work miracles with a 47 and 26 yards against South­strength from the knee while a ton and a defense born anew. defense that gave up 129 points in the last three ern c~ ~efore kickins t~e soccer-style kicker uses his The Dolphins will have some big problems if games of '78. Greg Pruitt's legs may earn him game-wmnmg extra potnt m quadracep muscles in the they don't satisfy Delvin Williams' demands. 1,000 yards, but his mouth has gotten him a bad Notre Dame's 35-34 Cotton thigh, "Unis adds. Both are the star tailback has threatened to sit out rap w1th his teammates. 
Bowl win over Houston. He convinced that there is no Sunday's Buffalo game (big deal!) and maybe Predicted order offinish: 1. Pittsburgh; 2. recalls that moment with obvi­advantage to either style. longer (uh-oh!) for bigger bucks. Miami's Houston; 3. Cincinnati; 4. Cleveland. ous satisfaction: "It's all in what you're used biggest soft spot might be~ on the special teams AFCWEST 
where rookie Uwe Von Schamann (that's oo-vee, This is Pete Rozelle's dream division. His not yoo-ee) had better kick the lights out of the biggest goal as Commissioner was to achieve Orange Bowl. balance in the NFL. Boy, is this the place to find 
it.
Back on top in Cincinnati 
Rookie coach Ron Erhardt felt that New Kansas City is the only team you can write-off
England's offensive line was so strong that he 
from the start. They join Buffalo in a rebuilding
could afford to give All-Pro Leon Gray to 
CINCINNATI (AP) -It started Earned Run Average in Japan year. Oakland can probably join them unless
Houston for draft picks. That's a curious move,
happening while the Cincinnati Tom Hume, a marginal pitcher Stabler plays, and plays out of his mind.
considering the Patriots don't even have a 1,000
Bengals were losing their first with a 4. 73 lifetime ERA in the The rest of the divtsion is a toss-up. San Diego 
yard back. Steve Grogan's interceptions will get
eight games last fall and sports.· major legues, went 5-0 in the has perhaps the most potent offensive machine
them in trouble, but their defense will bail them 
fans here were looking for any Far East with a 2~62 ERA. ' out. the league has ever seen with the likes of glimmer of hope. newcomers Mike Thomas and Kellen Winslow
In three years, Walt Michaels has done much to 
With Pete Rose destined for Their records were a good joining Dan Fouts, Lydell Mitchell, ] ohn
improve the Jets but he still has a way to go. But
another team, and no signifi­omen for 1979. LaCoss and Jefferson, and Don Woods. The defense was
you have to keep your eye on any team with 
cant trades on the horizon, the Hume are the two men who dealt a striking blow when Louie Keleher was
running backs named Long and Gaines. 
outlook for a baseball winner h~ve pitched the Reds to the top knocked out for the season with an injury. But a
Buffalo can use that favorite excuse for teams
seemed grim. The Cincinnati of the National League West, 45-38 win is just as good as any other. 
along with a at the bottom of the heap. "We're in
Reds hadn't won the National rejuvinated Tom a 
rebuilding year." Top draft pick Tom
League West in two summers Seaver and predictable jobs by An overtime field goal against Denver was the
Cousineau may have been the wisest of all when 
and they were standing pat. Fred Norman and Bill Bonham. on)'y thing that stood between the Seahawks and 
he dodged the draft and fled for Canada. 
Using a stifling sinkerball, a division title last year. The Broncos can't
Predicted order of finish: 1. Miami; 2.
That was before the pitching LaCoss is 14-5, the winingest always count on being so luc~y. Seattle has been
Baltimore; 3. New England; 4. New York; 5.
staff started coming around. man on the staff. His ERA of built' the same way as QthO.r great teams like
Buffalo.
The Reds were touring Japan 2. 81 is third in the league. Dallas, Pittsburgh , and Los\Apgeles. thr@ugh when the staff first started Hume was a spot starter who the draft. There ts one diffotentle. It took rthe
AFCCENIRAL

showing signs of life. Their threw a five-hitter at the Dod­Cowboys six years to make the playoffs. lqis
You just can't put the defending Super Bowl
opponents from the profession­gers in late June and has been expansion team is entering its fourth y_ea:r..
champs in second place, but the Steelers had
al ranks of ) a pan weren't all the hottest pitcher in the Denver began its gnidu~ sJ~de followittg t~eir
better watch out for the Houston Oilers. Last
Sadahara Ohs, but the results league, except possibly for Super Bowl appearance m 77. Quarterback
year these two teams met three times. That will 
Seaver. Hume has allowed one
were significant. problems are not helping matters ancf the loss of
probably happen again, but th~s time the Oilers 
Mike LaCoss, the red-haired earned run in his last 33 and AJzado may spell defeat for the defending
could take the best-of-thret~ senes. The Steelers 
stringbean who struggled to a one-third innings. champ Broncos. 
The little right-hafl(!er's__l...13 exposed the Oilers as being about average
4-8 record during the 1978 Predicted order of finish: 1. S~ Diego; 2.
without Earl Campbell, but I think that's
summer, was 4-0 with a 0.82 ERA leads the league. Seattle; 3. Denver; 4. Oakland; 5. Kansas City. 
different now. Billy "White Shoes'~ Johnson is 
.. 




