
• • • Comeback-p~ge 12 

VOL. XIV NO. 40 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1979 
·Former· President cites America's 'challenges' 
By Michael Lewis Executive News Editor 
Former President Gerald R. Ford addressed two groups last night on campus, speaking to a crowd of over 3,000 in the Athletic and Convocation Center, and later fielding questions from about 200 students in the Stanford Hall Chapel. 
Ford opened his talk at the ACC with a brief stateme_nt on the challinges facing America, then opened the floor to quesuons from the audience. 
The former president cited the economy, the energy situation and America's military capability as the three major chailenges for the 1980's. He said "we must solve the problems of all three simultaneously'' if the country is to maintain its status as leader of the free world. 
Expressing opti.nism at the government's ability to deal with those issues, he nonetheless cited a few problems with the current operation of the government. 
Pointing to the recurring conflict between the legislati~e and executive branches, :Uord said "What we're seeing t~da}:' 1s t~at there's not the cooperation that's going to be essenual 1f were going to solve the problems facing us today." He referred to r_he constitutional provtsion of balance among the three branches. of government and said he does not want to see the pendulum swmg m favor of any one of the branches. 
"I don't want to see an imperial presidency, but I don't want to see an imperiled presidency either." 
A second probkm in government is the "erosion" of the two-part>: system, Ford said. He noted that lack of party unity was a ''sigmficant factor in the inability of Congress to pass a comprehensive energy program." 
''We don't have to go back to the smoke filled room,'' Ford said, "but somehow we've got to strengthen the two-party system." 
He called upon smdents to help alleviate a third problem facing the government. Ford stated that record lows of voter participation were recorded for the 1976 {>residential election and for the 1978 Congressional election. Notmg that the "poorest percenta_ge of voter participation'' is among the 18-24 year-old group, he sa1d the turnouts were "a big disappointment" to those that worked for a constitutional amendment allowing 18 year-olds to vote. 
''Get with it and get into it especially now that you have a major political campaign coming up in 1980,'' he said. 
In response to a question about the low popularity of Congress and the contrasting high marks most mdividuals give their individual representative, Ford said "They like their own Congressman and they want to get rid of evervone else's." 
He said the voters should foilow the voting record of their Congressman so that the representative may be accountable to his constituents. 
In response to other questions, the former President: --voiced approval of nuclear power as an energy so~rce. To. meet the nation's energy needs, Ford advocated deregulation of oll and 
natural gas, use of more domestic coal, and nuclear power. Ford seemed hesitant to a.dd ''nuclear povter,'' but then charged ahead, 
[continued on page 3] 

tions, Yadin told Israel Radio 
"there are differences of views 
between our party and the
Roemer tiiscusses women 's security 
majority party on some issues 
in reaction to recent assaults 
Rosemary Mills Editor-in-CJ.Iief 
Reacting to two attacks of women on the Notre Dame campus Oct 20. James Roemer, dean of students, discussed security measures yesterday with women representing the Notre Dame-Samt :Mary's fe· male student population. 
In the first Incident. a SMC student told friends she was attacked early Saturday morn­ing by the cemetary on the road to Saint Mary's. the woman would not talk to ND security and declined treatment at a local hospital. 
A ND graduate student was raped at approximately 8:45 
p.m. that night in the vicinity of Cartier Field. Her assailant was described as a tall, muscular person wearing a pullover sweater. 
Security officials do not be­lieve the two incidents are related. However, in view of the attacks, Roemer and Glenn Terry of ND Security reviewed security measures to protect women of both campuses a­gainst such assaults. During yesterday's _me<:ting, . Roe~er reiterated h1s d1scusston w1th Terry and voiced the concern of the University to Shannon Ne­ville, student government off­campus commissioner, Ellen Dorney, HPC chairperson, Ka­tie Kearney, assistant rector of Farley Hall and director of 


Ford calls Carter policies 
'disasterous ' 
By Mark Rust News Editor 
Former President Gerald Ford attacked President Jimmy Carter's foreign and domestic policies, and downplayed his own role in the upcoming presidential elections during a half-hour press conference yes­terday morning. 
Ford appeared healthy, his face slightfy tanned and show­ing none of the strain which marks a president fatigued with a heavy workload. He dressed somewhat informally in maroon tie and tattersal jacket, and asked that questions be confin­ed to toJ?ics academic rather than poliucal. The request was, for the most part, ignored by the media. 
Ford said that Carter had ''blown it'' on both the domes­tic and international fronts. When asked to assess the current· administration, Ford replied that he has ''come t.o the conclusion that their domes­tic policies are a disaster.'' He pointed out that Carter inherit­ed an inflation rate of 4.8 percent from his administra­tion; the current inflation rate is 
[continued on page 2) 
Dayan· successor eludes Begin 
'TEL AVIV, Israel (AP) -Prime ment Speaker Yitzhak Shamir Minister Menachem Begin fail­to fill the post left vacant last ed yesterday in his first attempt week by Moshe Dayan, who to choose a new foreign minist~ quit in a disagreement over the er and sought other candidates government's policy in the oc­in an attempt to avert a Cabinet cupied West Bank. , crises that could topple his 
His first choice for foreigngovernment. 
minister, Deputy Premier
Begin said he was consider­Yigael Yadin, rejected the off­ing asking right-wing Parlia­er. Echoing Dayan's conten­
of foreign policy'' which pre­vented him from accepting the job. 
Yadin, who is inJerusalem's Hadassah Hospital recoveringStudent Legal Services, and from a mild heart attack, said 
Pia Trigiani, Saint Mary's stu­he might reconsider if Begindent body president. offered him the job of headmgRoemer noted that while the Israel's negotiating team on 
shuttle is available for transpor­
West Bank autonomy. He be­
tation to and from SMC be­
longs to the Democratic Move­
tween the hours'of 7 a.m. and 
ment Party, and Begin heads 
midnight, ND and SMC securi­
the majority Likud Bloc. 
ty departments are available for 
Earlier, the prime minister
transportation after these 

took the first step in efforts to
hours. Anthony Kovatch, Direc­
reshuffle the cabinet when his
tor of SMC security, explained 
unpopular finance minister,
that during late hours women 
Simha Ehrlich, agreed to be­
students should call either ND 
come a second de{>uty premier
or SMC · security for rides 
for comestic affa1rs, clearing
between the campuses. Accord­
the way for Yigal Hurvitz to
ing to Kovatch, women will be 
take command of the sagging
transported to the gate on 
economy. Ehrlich, under fire
Route 31 by ND security and 
for Israel's economic woes, had
\will be picked up on the other 
said earlier he might leave the 
,[continued on page 3_] government. · 
Hurvitz and, 'shamir are strong supporters of expanded ] ewish settlements in occupied Arab territories and both ob­jected to terms of the Israeli­Egyptian {>eace treaty last March, saymg Israel gave too much away by relinquishing all of Sinai. Shamir is an o~ comrade-in-arms of Begin from the days of the underground before Israel was rounded. 
Another possible candidate to replace Dayan is Interior Minister Yosef Burg of the National Religious Party. Burg is head of the Israeli team negotiating Palestinian auto­nomy, a powerful post in deter­mining the fate of the West Bank. But Burg, a canny politi­cian who has sat in every government since 1952, has said he wants to keep control of the 'interior ministry. 
One other Cabinet minister, Ariel Sharon, the minister in charge of West I~ank--settle­ment, is a potential problem for Begin. Sharon has threatened to walk out if the government ordered evacuation of the Elon Moreh settlement in the West Bank. 
The Israeli Supreme Court 
ordered the settlement evacuat­
ed, holding that it was set up in 
violation of international law 
which permits building on oc­
cupied lands only for security 
nurooses. 
I 
1 

News in brief 
Tuesday, October 30, 1979 -page 2 
Rizzo takes no sides in election ofhis successor 
PHILADELPHIA (AP)-Mayor FrankL. Rizzo the fanner COJ? wh? divided this city with a "Vote white" s'logan in his • fuule btd to be allowed to seek a third term, isn't taking sides tn the Nov. 6 election to choose his successor. "It's the dullest campaign I've ever seen," said Rizzo a Democrat wh? oncecalledRichard Nixon the greatest president the !Jmted States ever ~ad and eyen _considered backing an mdependent Repubhcan for hts Ctty Hall job. "I'm a renegade. No one can tell Frank Rizzo what to do.'' ~emocrats have controlled the ?ation's fourth-largest city s!nce 19_51 and the party's nommee, former Rep. William Green, ts favored ove three opponents-Republtcan David Marston, Consumer Party candidate Lucien Blackwell and Nora Danielson of the Socialist Workers. "I've ~otto v:vofor one of them, but it's an awful choice," said Rtzzo. Green beaten ~y R~zzo in a primary fight for the Democrati~ nommauon etght years ago~ h,as pu_t together a campaign supported by most. of the ctty s maJor labor and business leaders. He has ratsed nearly $2 million, more than all his opponents put together. 
Kennedy plans formal announcement ofcandidacy· 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Sen. Edward M. Kennedy will formally an~ounce O? Nov. 7 in Boston~s Faneuil Hall that he ts c~allc;ngmg Prestdent Carter for the 1980 Democratic nommauon. From the standpoint of federal election laws Kenned¥ became a preside~tial candidate today when hi~ brother-m-law, Stephen Smtth, announced formation of a Kennedy _for Presidt;nt Committee. Smith, who has played key roles 10 the prestdential campaigns of all three Kennedy brothers, told a news conference that the Massachusetts s~nator feels tht;re are ''fundamental differences' between htmself and Prestdent Carter. ''He feels the real drift in this co~ntry ~nd a sense of lack of direction," said Smith. "I thmk he s concerned about that and I think it's one of the reasons he's going forward.:' President Carter's press secretary, ] ody Powell, satd when questioned about Kenne~y's move: "We look forward to an interesting can:tpatg~ and t<? a close examination of the candidates and thetr p~tlosophtes of government and their record of acc?mpltsh~ent. . The Amer~can people will ultimately d7c1de v.:htch candidate they w1sh to trust toleadthem in the 
difficult umes ahead.'' 
Weather 
~ild today, then beco~ing J?anly ~loudy with highs in the mtd 60s. Cloudy ~d _mild tomght wtth lows in the upper 40s and low 50s: Rain likely tomorrow with possible thunder­;~~wers. Mild tomorrow with highs in the mid 60s. to about 

4:30pm LECTURE, "nietzsche on educational institutions" by _professor jacques derri~a, ec?le non:nale superieore, pans, spon. by dept. of gov t and mternauonal studies and dept. of modern and classical languages MEMORIAL LIBRARY LOUNGE. 
6:30 
pm MEETING, alpha phi omega, ZAHM HALL BASEMENT. 

6:30 
pm MEETING, junior advisory council, KEENAN BASEMENT. 


7:00 
pm MEETING, pre law society, ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM. 

7:00 
pm ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING, college bowl LITTLE THEATRE-LAFORTUNE. ' 


7:00pm LECTURE, "the study of law at notre dame law school". by david link, dean of n.d. law school, spon. by pre law society, ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM. 
7:00pm INFORMAL TALK, by dr. emil t. hoffman, spon. by howard hall academic commission HOWARD HALL CHAPEL. ' 
8:00 
pm LECTURE, jack anderson, spon. by student union academic commission, free admission reception following LIBRARY AUDITORIUM. ' 

8:00 
pm LECTURE, "social darwinism in early american sociology" by david lewis, dept. of sociologyI anthropology n.d., GALVIN AUDITORIUM. ' 


Network blacks out controversial show 
Boston to calm explosive climate 
BOSTON (AP) -Clergymen, Boston Catholic Archdiocese, is white students. public officials and a profes­considered significant since ap­A statement from WB.Z said sional football team all an­proximately 75 percent of the the Boston station's decision to nounced plans yesterday to try city's population of 640,000 are cancel the program, set in the to calm the explosive racial Catholics. Reconstruction South, was climate that prompted a Boston Included in the covenant is a ~ased on "Unusually graphic blackout of a pnme-time net­call for the rejection of ''any mcidents of racial violence de­work television show. and all special interest groups picted, particularly violence 
WBZ-TV, at the' urging of both and leaderships that serve-only against children.'' black and white community to deepen our divisions and The film contained inflam­leaders, decided against show­entrench us, angered, into sep­matory language and there 
arate camps." wc;re racial stereo!)'pes in it,"
ing Monday and Tuesday 

satd progra.q1 dtrector Dicknight's two-part NBC drama The clergyment joined the Kurlander of WBZ-TV an NBC
"Freedom Road," starring for­management of the New Eng­affiliate owned by the Westing­mer heavyweight boxing land Patriots and officials of the house Broadcastmg Co.
champion Muhammad Ali. Mass~husetts Bay Trans­In New York, and NBC
portation Authority in the at­
Cardinal Humberto Mede­spokesman said WBZ was the

tempt to defuse the city's tense
iros, joined by other religious only affiliate to cancel the film, atmostphere.

leaders, told a news conference NBC had no comment on theof plans for a "covenant" of The Patriots asked their Na­development.

rac1al harmony that will be tional Football Legue players to Racial difficulties in the city's launched at an ecumenical con­volunteer to meet with students high schools have escaltedvocation Nov. 19 on Boston in the city's racially tense ~ince the September shootingCommon. After the service, schools. 
tnt he Charlestown section ofMedeiros said, every Bostonian The transportation authority Darryl Williams, a black highwill be urged to sign the 
said, effe~tie yesterday through school football player.
"covenant ofjustice, equity and Dec. 31, tt would add buses to There have been walkouts atharmony." 

school transit routes and in­some schools, numerous dem­The involvement of Mede,· crease security to prevent skir­onstrations and violent con­1ros, spiritual leader of the mishes b_etween black and frontations. 
• • . Inflation 
[continued from page 1 

administration has failed to ''inconsistency'' has marked 13 percent. He also pointed to meet the challenge. If they had Carter's policies, both foreign the dramatic rise in the prime been more responsible in fiscal and domestic. lending rate --from 61~ to 15 policy there would have been no Ford said that Carter's poli­percent --as additional proof need," Ford said. cies have "continued to t~at ''from an economic pomt of In foreign affairs the former squeeze down our military cap­
vtew, they've blown it.' president called the situation in abilities." He said that the Korea --marked by Saturday's USSR is slightly s.uperior in
The prime lending rate deter­

assasination of South Korean strategic capabilities and vastlymines the percentage of inter­President Park and subsequent supenor in conventional forces. 
est both small and large bor­

power struggle--"very danger-He cautioned the senate torowers across the country must ous. " concentrate on strengthenin~pay. It is an inportant economic He said that . the-Carter conventional military capabih­tndicator because a high rate administration had also made ties. "Unless we do this, I aminhibits the free flow of money grave mistakes in foreign policy opposed to ratifying the SALTand industrial expansion, por­
1ssues, particularly in the re­treaty.''
~ending economic sluggishness cent matter of Soviet troo_p& in While he favors strengthen­10 the future. The Federal 

Cuba. At the time of the ing "conventional" capabili­Reserve Board, in a series of announcement the administra­ties, Ford is still opposed to aannouncements beginning in tion called the Soviet presence return to the draft.
late ] uly, raised the rate to its "unacceptable," but later said Congress, which Ford calledpresent record in an effort to 

that they would closely monitor ''provtncial and parochial,''tighten the money supply and the situation. Ford said that, in came in for abuse at the pressreduce inflation. 
effect, the administration was conference. Ford said he was ..._ "Tly.y (the Federaljieserve) callinl? the presence ...~.;accept­particularly miffed that theyrelUly had no choice el'cept to able.' have not enacted a comprehen­take the harsh action. The 
''They handled it about as sive energy plan, even though badly as they could have. Five they were presented with a plan weeks after they called the by Nixon, Carter and himself. 
~oo---The Observer_ troops unacceptable they essen­Ford said he felt "a formula tially turned around and called can be deyised" by the govern-
NightEditor: Rod Beard 

them acceptable," Ford said. 
[continued on page 3]
Asst. Night Editor: · Cindy 

He said that this type of
Kliros, Bill Keenan, Ryan "and he whistles too" Ver Berkmoes Copy Editor: Tom Jackman News Editor: Mark Rust 
ISports Layout: Paul 
Mullaney Typists: Beth Huffman, Kate Huffman, Paul Selavko, Amy Peczkowski Proofreader: Mark Rust ND Day Editor: Mark Kelly 
SMC Day Editor:Peggy 
Schneeman 
Ad Design: David Wood, Flo 
O'Connell 
Photographers: Greg Maurer 
Tom Jackman 
The Observer [USPS 511 1201 Is published Monday through Friday n­cept during rum 1nd VICitlln periods. The 0bserver Is publtsllld bf 1IMI students of Nottl Dlflll IIIII Sa111t Miry's Cllilgl. Sublcrtptila IIWy Ill purdlnacl for $211 per year ($11 per sematart f1'11111 The Observer. 1'.0. blx 0. N1tr1 b11111, llldlllll 4llili&. s-ci elm '=X' p1ld, Nmt D11111, 111­
dillll . 
The Observer is 1 llllllllllr If tt11 Aaoli1tld p,..._ All il!ll......lilll rlglltl lfl fiiiMd. 

riil General Motors ~CAREER DAY 
8:30a.m. 
until 
4:00p.m. 

Representatives of various divisions of General Motors Corporation will be available to discuss career opportunities, product programs . educational and training opportunities at their respective divisions. 
Stop by before or after class and discover what could be in your future with General Motors. . . . 

GENERAL MOTORS IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
The Observ4er Tuesday, October 30~ 1979 -p~ge 3 
• • .Roemer 
• • . Nuclear 

[continued from page 1] 
noting that his,, support of.,..,ouqear power js "p~obably controversial.'' His views met wtth a loud audience reaction --a few boos mixed with generally strong applause. Ford said he is optimistic American engineers and scientists can make nuclear power "safer, nore reliable, and more economical." He noted that there are 72 nuclear power plants operating in the U.S., and halting these r.lants' production would force the country to purchase 1.8 mtllion more barrels of OPEC oil each day. 
--shied away from endorsing political candidates, saying he does not support or oppose any Rc;publican presidential .candid~te at this time. He satd the upcommg race between President J 1mmy Carter and Sen. Ted Kennedy would be a "bloody brawl." In Stanford, Ford repeated his statement that he would not actively 
seek the presidential nomination, but would accept a draft. 'he also emphasized he will run if "unforseen circumstances develop," which was met with applause in the hall. 
. --opposed reinstitution of the military draft. Ford said he favored a career and voluntary military f0rce. He also stated that he believes the volunteer army would work, if the military leadership supported it.. "My o~jecti<.m to ~esu~ption of _the selective service is that, m peacetime, It was 10equttable, unJUSt and unfair,'' he said, drawing applause from t~e audience. . 
--advocated a bui.ld-up of America? conventional and strateg_tc military forces. Ford said he ~greed w~th S~?· Sam Nun_n (D-GA) 10 calling for a five percent real 10crease 10 mthtary spend10g over the next five years. He called for replacement of the 25 year-old B-52 bombers and active development of the MX missile system. Later in Stanfo'rd Hall, Ford noted that, if the B-52's were called on in 
the next decade, ''The planes will be older than the pilot~ who are . flying them.'' 
--opposed the windfall profits tax proposed by the Carter admimstration on oil company profits made after decontrol. Ford advocated decontrol, and a ''plowback'' provision, which would funnel oil company profits ba;k to the company for exploration a~d research for more o1l. "I don t want Uncle Sam to go out and dnll anything. I want the experts to do it," he s~id. 
Ford is now a "Dtstinguished Fellow" of the American Enterprise Institute, a nonpartisan, nonprofit ~ducational and research organization. In this role he has met wtth students and faculty members ~t _QYer 50 colleges and universities throughout 
the country since~;:.-~ the White House. 

Dean ofStudents james Roemer answered call in questions from students on WSND's "Talk It UP", Monday night. 
[photo by Greg Maurer] 
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS M.B.A. 
All Majors and Fields invited . 

Come to our meetings to hear about our MBA and PhD Programs and to ask any questions about the curriculum, admissions, financial aid, and career orportunities available in the following fields o management: 
Health Administration Public ancf NonProfit 
Finance Human Resources 
Marketing Economics 
General Management Management Science 
Accounting Policy 

WEDNESDAY OCT,31 
.Contact the Placement Bureau for sign -ups 

turns to the Library at 11:42. 

While Ne~lle volunteered that more off-cainpus runs would be beneficial, she agreed with Roemer that students could arrange their schedule to take advantage of the shuttle. The shuttle runs free during class hours, but costs 15 cents after 5p.m. · Roemer then explained that students who live off-campus may park in the faculty park­ing lots at night. Because these lots are often closer to ,campus Roemer believes they are safer at night than the regular stu­dent lots. He specifically refer­
[continued on page 5.] 
Professor Derrida to lecture 
Professor Jacques Derrida, from the Ecole Normale Super­ieure in Paris, will speak this afternoon on ''Nietzsche on Educational Institutions." The lecture will be held at 4:30p.m. in the Library Lounge, and all faculty and students are cor­dially invited to attend. 
Law· Dean speaks tonight 
David Link, Dean of the Notre Dame Law School, will give a lecture on ''The Study of Law at Notre Dame" tonight at 7:00 
p.m. in the Engineering Aud­Itorium. All interested should attend. 
Bowl 

organ1zes ··In ··· 
LaFortune 
There will be a College Bowl organizational meeting today at 
7:00 p.m. in the Little Theater on the first floor of LaFortune. All interested students and faculty please attend. 

[continued  from  page  1]  
side  .of  Route  H  by  SMC  
secunty.  Kovatcib.  also  said  

tha~ if ND security is not avrulable, SMC security will ~rovide complete· trans~~­tion. 
"We don't want them walking alone, or even two of them," Kovatch emphasized. He ex­plained that SMC security has been providing this service to SMCstudents and that it had not been abused. "If there are three or four of them, they usually walk, Kovatch stated. Both Roemer and Kovatch a­greed that more than two or three people was a safe num­ber. They stressed that women requesting rides from security may have a short wait. 
When questioned by Neville 
• • • • Ford 
[continued from page 2] 
ment for helping Chrysler out of their current financtal straits, particularly since· both the Chrysler management and the UAW have indtcated their will­ingness to cooperate. He com­pared the government help to a similar situation at Lockheed, when the government nursed the company back to health with loans on which "the Government actually made $31 
million." 
In contrast to Chrysler, Lock­heed produces iu:ms such as airplanes necessary for national defense. 
Ford said he has been shar­pening his golf game since he stepped down and has reduced his handicap to 14. "I've been hitting /eople with golf balls less an falling down less," he added. 
about the possibility of ND security providing rides for off-campus students, Roemer replied that security did not have enough manpower or cars to guarantee such a system. ''It would short us and we would not be able to provide adequate security for women on cam­pus," ·he said. Roemer added that in emergency situations, security might be able to pro­vide such assistance. 
Roemer and Neville also dis­cussed the extension of the shuttle for off-campus students. At p·resent, the shuttle stops at Notre Dame Apartments and Campus View twice each night. The first evening run of the shuttle leaves the Library Circle at 6:42, arrives at Campus View at 6:50, reaches ND apartments at 7:04 and returns to the library at 7: 12. A later run leaves the Library at 11:14, Campus View at 11:24 the Apartments at 11:34 and re-
Observer 
appoints McGrath 
John McGrath, a sophomore from Johnstown, PA, was ap­pointed last night to the posi­tion of Observer production manager. McGrath was former­ly a copy editor and senior staff reporter. 
McGrath, appointed by Busi­ness Manager Steve Odland from among a field of candidat­es, will assume immediately the responsibility of coordinating production staff activity. As 
production manager,  McGrath  
will  be  responstble  for  the  
visual Observer.  

McGrath is a business major. 
• 1 ,. ' ~ ..., 

The Observer 

Tuesday, October 30, 1979 -page 4. 


by Mike Shields News Editor 
The Carter administration must ··get our house in order" economically or face grave con­sequences at home and abroad, former President GeraJ d Ford warned yesterday. 
Ford, addressing a ''Princi­ples of Economics" class in Washington Hall, cited current statistics showing a 13 percent inflation rate, a 15 percent prir>1e interest rate, high un­employment and a balance of trade that is "not encourag­ing." He suggested that the economic situation would be better if Carter had followed his lead in fiscal management. 
"It is important that we get our house m order," Ford sard, adding that other countries, 

MORRISON-KNUDSEN COMPANY, INC. Designers, engineers, builders, managers and EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYERS ... 
worldwide ENGINEERS WANTED 
By Morrison-Knudsen Company, Inc. to Support Construction and what a better way to help today's growing world and to build for tomorrow's generations by leaving something concrete behind! Morrison-Knudsen's Corporate Engineering• Department has superior engineers with the experience and expertise to do it all-from dams, off-shore islands outfalls, pipelines and power plants to tunnels and even concrete cities-you name it and chances are we have done it almost everywhere within North America, the Arctic, Indonesia and the Middle East to name a few. 
Morrison-Knudsen's constant success world wide continues to be attributable to the retainment and development of tho. most qualified individuals willing to walk that extra mile. · 
Ifconstruction and engineering are in your future, we want to talk to you. See your placement director about arrangements for a personal interview with one of our Personal Representatives. If you have additional questions we will be glad to answer them for you. Morrison-Knudsen representatives wil be here especially West Germany and Japan, have outperformed the 
on November 1 and 2.  If you are unable to meet with our representative send  
your resume  to:  
Pamela Walton  
Recruiting Manager  
Corporate Engineering Department  
Two Morrison-Knu~ Plaza.  
P. 0. Box 7808  ll  ;I  
Boise, Idaho  83729  

U.S. economically. "We are losing our economic clout, which will cause serious reper­cussions at home. '' 
He added that rising rates of 
inflation could prevent the 
coun~ry from. plalmg a signifi­
cant mternattona role. 
Ford related the current situa­tion to that of August, 1974, when he inherited the presi­dency of an economically troubled America. He said OPEC's ~il monopoly, a Mid­west drought, the removal of wage and price controls and the aftereffects of the ''guns and butter'' programs of the Viet­nam era had pushed the country to ''the brink of the worst economic recession in 40 years. 
Ford outlined his "very de­liberate effort'' to reduce the rate of growth of federal spend­in_g from an average annual rate of 11 p,ercent between 1964 and 1974 to a goal of 5.5 percent. The actual reduction was about seven percent. 
He reminded the class that by the end of his term, inflation hovered at 4.8 percent, the prime interest rate stood at 6.25 percent, and unemployment was down from the time he took office. Ford credited his pro­gram of tax reductions for stimulating the economy. 
Carter's trouble, Ford re­marked, stems from the presi­dent's "deliberate decision" to reduce unemployment at the expense of fueling inflation. 
Ford stressed that econo­mics, energy and national sec­urity are integrated areas that Carter must address simulta­neously to attain lasting solu­tions. 
He said Carter should limit 
ROCCOS men's and women's 
hairstyling at comfortah le prices 
531 N. Michigan 233-495? .--1 
''unjustified domestic pro­grams" to 'insure die mainten­ance of national security. 
During a question and ans­wer sessiOn, Ford said he would favor a windfall J?rofits tax on oil comanies only if the profits were passed on as dividends to investors, but not if the profits were used for research and development of new energy sources. 
"We should not penalize oil companies for their research and give the money to the government. The government has not produced many barrels of oil," he said. 
Ford also favored govern­ment support of Chrysler Corp­oration, the financially strapped auto manufacturer. He cited the precedent ofLockheed Corpora­tion, the aerospace giant to which the government guaran­teed lines of credit in 1975. He 
added  that  the  government  
made  $30  million  from  the  
loans.  

He based his support on a fear of decreased domestic auto competition ~nd massive . un­employment m some regions should Chrysler fold. 
Fr. Hustgen 
•

rece1yes appointment 
Father Robert J. Austgen, director of the summer session at the University, has been elected president of the As­sociation of University Summer Sessions. And as a past president of the North Central. Conference ofSummer S&hools, Fr. Austgen has been ap­pointed as a permanent board member of the American Summer Session Senate. 
A native of Hammond, Ind., 
Fr. Austgen received his undergraduate degree from Notre Dame, his STI.. degree at Gregorian University in Rome, and his doctorate in Sacred Theology at Fribourg Univer­sity in Switzerland. 1Fr. Austgen joined the Notre Dame faculty in the Department of Theology in 1964 and assumed his present position in 1970. 
aJlllinistratign of either institution. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 

-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... . Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ............... ... Mark Perry 
represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor..........Diane Wilson Features Editor .... . Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor .. ............ Ann Gales Photo Editor ... ........... Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of SeniO.r Copy Editor ....... .. M. Onufrak
f 
The Observer is an inde~ndent their authors. Column space is avail-Executive News Editor......Mike Lewis Business Manager ....... . Steve Odland newspa~r published by the students able to all members of the community, News, Editor ....................Mark Rust Production Manager ...... . of the University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor .. ...... r ••...... Mike Shields Advertising Ma"ager.........Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC Executiv~ Editor.....EII~n BuddY. Co,troller..................Kevin Manion necessarjly reflect the policies of the encourage.d; . • • . . . • . • . . . ....•• ?!'!C Nt;'!l! ~E_dtfor.:.: ..... Margte Brasstl . Circulation Manager .... .. Greg Hedges 
.:t 

--~------...,....-----~~----­
~ ~
-

r 
I 
The Observer· Tuesday, October 30, 1979 -f'lge 5 
I 
I Possible softening of iron rule in South Korea 
Park assasinatiOn may spur political reforms 
\ 

They said the ruling circles in both former , military men and
The helicopter carrier . USS The nation remained outward­

SEOUL SOUTH KOREA 
ly calm as hundreds of thou­South Korea blamed Cha for one-time prim:el ministers, are
(AP) -The assassination of Blue Ridge, meanwhile, was 
sands in cities and towns across political blunders that stirred possible successors to Park. But 
President Park Chung-hee may 
cruising toward the South Ko­the anti-government unrest ~one source noted that both men
have set the stage £lr a softe~-rean port of Pusan in a demon­South Korea prayed before have enemies inside and out­
here in the past few months.
public altars set up to memora­

ing of the iron rule tbat has held stration of continued American The sources said the body­side the ruling Democratic Re­
lize Park, who was slain with

down opposition in this country support for the Seoul govern­guard Cha had grown arrogant publican Party._ 
five of his bodyguards at a
ment. It was scheduled to arrive

for years, informed political as a close adviser to Park and "Therefore (acting president) 
dinner party last Friday night at 

sources said yesterday. today. stood between the president Choi may emerge as a compro­
a Korean central Agency

South Korea's acting presi­and his political aides and key mise candidate to take power,
• The government may have guesthouse.
dent Choi Kyu-hah, and Cabi­officials, such as KCIA boss with some understandin$
signaled its intentions by allow­
net ministers met in hour-long The government said the 62 Kim. among the opposing polincal
ing publication of an opposition 
sessions behind closed doors year old president, who govern­The sources agreed that as­forces that ~littcal reforms will
appeal for democratic reforms 
yesterday, presumably discus­ed South Korea for 18 years, semblymembers Kim Jong-pil, be made wtthin a cenain peri­
in South Korea. 
sing the leadership crisis and was gunned down by KCIA .53, and Chung 11-Kwon. 61. od," h~ said. 
But NonhKorea charged that possible replacements, for Park. chief Kim Jae-kyu in a plot the Park killing was actually stemming from Kim's fears
At the Defense Ministry, top

aimed at preserving the that he had fallen out of favor
generals wer~ reported to have

"fascist regime." And the with Park.
begun meetmg at 10 p.m.,

Soviet Union accusc:~d the U.S. 
when a martial-law curfew went Informed political sources, Central Intelligence Agency of into effect. No information was who asked not to be named, having directed the death plot available on the gathering of said Kim's main nemesis was to protect American interests, the military chiefs-, who have 'Park's chief bodyguard Cha an allegation denied by the long been the real power base Chi-chul, who was among those Carter administration. in South Korea. slain. 
• • .·Roemer 
[continued from j•age 3) 
cessful, but he is not opposed to Kearney also expressed dissa­red to the lot behind the ND the idea. tisfaction that women rectors Post Office, across £:om the bus were not notified about the Oct. 
Kearney voiced the discontent 

shelter, and the faculty lot 20th attacks. She expanded this 
of women hall security monitors across from the Library and who have "double duty" when note to push for a rape aware­Math and Computing Center. ness program.Kearney,a SMc
other monitors do not report for 

Both graduate students and alumna andTrigiani compared
work. She explained that the

undergrads can use these lots. the lack of NO's awareness
coverage of two halls by one

Roemer and Terry have also program to the effective pro­
monitor reduced the effective­

indicated a willingness to pro­gram at SMC which is present­
ness of the security and was

vide security escorts on campus ed to the halls. They agreed
hard on the women. Roemer

and from the parking lots. 
that training programs which
·blamed the need for double

Roemer added that all past are given to SMC resident attempts to organize a student duty on the lack of reliable assistants would be beneficial escort service through student women willin~ to work the 
to ND RA's. 

government have been unsuc-hours of secunty monitor. 
Dollq,r see--saws Monetary experts say crisis not over 
LONDON (AP) -Just a year ly from last year's trough after swap agreement with the nat­aso, the dollar plunged to President Carter announced on ional banks of Western Europe h1storic lows against major Nov. 1, a reconery package that and Japan.currencies around the world. included a $30-bdhon currency 
U.S. rescue moves have pulled it back, but experts looking nervously toward election year say the crisis in confidence 1sn't 
United Wcry reaches 60% · 

over. 
• ' ?""J...... tft" ")
•.1..1..1

Despite the recovery, it has been a see-saw yc:~ar for the The campus United Way cam-amount of funds raised in this dollar overseas. Spiraling oil paign has reached about 60 per year's student campai~n. but 
prices and a rush into gold by cent of this year's goal, accord-just pledges and contnbutions worried investors have meant ing to Professor Ronald Weber, from Notre Dame faculty, staff, nerve-wracking times for those campus chairman. and administration. who use dollars abroad. To date contributions and The campus campaign will 
"I'd rather we got paid in pledges amout to about conclude on November 8 when cheese or razor blades," says $40,000. The goal of this year's a final report is to be made to one American homemaker in United Way campaign on the St. Joseph County United London. "At least we'd know campus is $70,800. · Way campai~n.what to look forward to." The ''We're running a little behind ''There is snll plenty of time to British pounds she buys cost last .year's successful contribute," Weber added. about $2.13 each today. Three campaign," Weber noted. "At ''Those who have lost or mis­months ago they cost $2.35 snf this time last year we were at placed pledge cards can pick up 11 months ago, $.96. about 70 per cent of our goal." new ones at the Personnel 
The dollar recovered prompt-Weber said that the $40,000 office. And contributions can figure does not include the be sent directly to Personnel.'' 
Dr. Hofo~an 
to speak at Howard .Hall 
Tonight at 7:00p.m., Dr. Emil 
T. Hofman will gtve an informal talk in the chapel of Howard Hall. 
Dr. Hofman is Dc:an of the Freshman Year of Studies .as well as a renowned professor of chemistry here at Notre Dame. 
All those interested! in attend­ing this informal talk are cor­dially invited. 



NOVEMBER 6, 1979 8:00P.M. MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
TICKETS $7.50 ADVANCE $8.50 DAY OF SHOW AVAILABLE AT THE MORPJS CNIC AUDITONli-A BOX OmCE AND AT ALLIWER CITY RECORDS 


It's only ONE DAY away... The 1st Annual Senior 
:rrlCh.~!!:Oass 
Masquerade Party 
Costumes needed to enter Tickets on sale in Dining Halls Prbes for tho~e great coatumes & LaFortune $3 a ticket includft ~ you made over break: l mixed drink, or 2 beerS, plwl F_ree peanuts, mun.chie& a band,
Individual $15 Group $25 

and a gretJt time. other pJUe.-champagne * 21 I.D. --..............._...... 
Tickets 83.50 at· door 

~~-===-=~~~ 
0

• ' , I I i ' ~ ~ .J } ' J J J , I ' 
------------~--------------------------~-----------1 



Tuesday, October 30, 1979 -page 6 
The Observer 
Answers listener's questions 
Roemer talks it up on WSND 
RINK RIVERSIDE PRINTING, INC. 209 EAST COLFAX AVE.! SOUTH BEND, IN •6617 • FINE LITHOGRAPHY • COMMERCIAL PRINTING • INSTANT PRINTING Phone 232-7935 See us abOut your resume  
Friday is last day for sign up in djning hall NEIGHBORHOOD ROOTS  

By]ohn McGrath ''Frankly, I thought every­nued after last season. 
thing went really well,'' Roe­"Is it really necessary for 
Senior StaffReporter mer said. "Jim O'Brien (station someone to go to an athletic 
general manager) has really event and to get drunk on 
It was an ironical homecom­done an exceptional job at alcohol provided by the Univer­ing of sorts last night for Dean !ml?rovinp, tl.o:: station since the sity?" Roemer asked rhetorical­of Students ] ames Roemer as rncident. ly. "I feel that practices like he appeared as guest on WSND Roemer fielded a wide range that are inconsistent with the -AM's live · call-in program ofquestions from callers as well policies of this school." ~ "Talk It Up." as studio hosts Cathy Murray Roemer also addressed the 
Last month, Roemer and the and Pat Toomey, touching on issue of rape in response to station management found alcohol abuse among students questions raised about the two themselves at odds over the and alumni, parking regula­assoults which took place Octo­airing of obscene comments tions, thefts during football ber 20. He noted that over the from telephone callers during games, party rooms, the ban on last ten years, there have been the broadcast of a similar kegs, and the termination of the ten rapes in the vicinity of the program, ."Radio Free Notre Blue Line Club. Notre Dame-Saint Mary's cam­Dame.'' That incident resulted The club, which was located puses, but expressed concern in disciplinary actions against in an auxiliary gymnasium and over the recent incidents. several members of the station operated during Notre Dame "We had a discussion today staff and the cancellation of the hockey games, was disconti-with representatives from the program. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Last night, however, every­women's community, off cam­thing went smoothly --thanks pus students, and ~raduate
Sophomores
in part to the activation of a students," Roemer satd. "We six-second tape d~lay system to looked at a variety of aspects to screen out offensive comments the problem including where 
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIE 
We're Fisher Controls Company and as a world leader in • What type of control valves and pneu­the process control industry we are constantly seeking matic control instrumentation do you use on engineers to help up provide answers to our customer's an offshore drilling platform located in the needs. We have the unique advantage of being a leader in North Sea? our field while still maintaining a small-company atmos­phere_ And while the technical demands of an engineering 
• What special material and design consid­career with Fisher are high, our recruiting interests erations are required for a 15,000 lb. controlemphasize a well-rounded individual with good communi­valve that will determine the electrical power cation skills. 
output from a nuclear reactor? Our products include a complete line of mechanical process control valves, regulators and instrumentation 
We are looking for Mechanical, Electrical, Industrial and systems manufactured in 19 countries and sold through Chemical engineers for career opportunities in Research,11 0 sales offices world-wide. Our customers represent Design, Manufacturing Engineering, Sales Engineering,the Petroleum, Chemical, Pulp &Paper, Food Processing, Technical Writing and Marketing areas.
Mining, Primary Metals and Power Generation industries . 
. 

An engineer at Fisher might work with any one of the If you are a junior, senior or graduate student in any one following problems our customers bring to us: of those fields, plan to attend an informal presentation {refreshments provided) scheduled for7:00 p.m., Octo­
• How do you control the transmission of ber 31 in the Shamrock Room at the Morris Inn. Two of crude oil through a pipeline spanning the our college recruiters, engineers themselves, will be north slopes and tundra of Alaska? there to answer any questions you might have about a 
career at Fisher. 
• What considerations need to be made in successfully implementing a computer cen­tro system to automatically control the deli­Our campus interviews for fall and spring graduates will cate wine cooling process during fermenta­take place Nov. 1. Please see your placement office for tion stage in a California winery? scheduling details. 

from callers. 
FALL BOOK SALE 
sponsored by 
The University Of Notre Dame Press 
TODAY -WED. 
9:00am-3:30pm memor-ial library

in the concourse of 
sponsor and when the rapes are. happen­ing and what can be done to end the problem."
'Mash' Speaking on the issue of the ban on kegs on campus, Roe­
The Notre Dame sophom.:>re 
mer defended his position in class is sponsoring a campus­response to questions.
wide "Monster Mash" mas­"It's been the experience of 
querade party Wednesday 
most veteran people here that night from 9:30 p.m. to 1:30 to open up a keg usually results a.m. in Stepan Center. 
in the consumption fo more Music and refreshments will alcohol than there normallybe provided. There will be a would be under other circum­
costume contest at midnight, stances (cans and bottles),"with the winner receiving a free Roemer contended, "and there dinner for two. 
comes a time when people in Admission will be one dollar a position of responsibility have for people with a costume and to take hard stands and say that two dollars for people ''in 
[continued on page 5]
drag" 
FISHER CONTROLS COMPANY 205 South Center Street Marshalltown, Iowa 50158 

I l

~----~--------~­
1 ~The Observer Tuesday, October 30, 1979 -page 7 
I 
959 arrested 
I Protestors fail to disrupt Exchange ~~~ 

i~=:~:~:~:::::::~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::~:::~:~:~:=~=~~ ·? The Amos Tuck School t . 
~~~; of Business 1\dministration t 
Dartmouth College • Hanover, N. H. 
Men and women seeking 
EDUCATION FOR MANAGEMENT 
are invited to discuss the 
TUC:KMBA 
with Marilyn Hammond Admissions Representative Friday, Novembet; 2 ~:~:~ Placement Office 283-8342 f~~::J 213 Administration Building if 
*'::::::::::::;::::::::;:::~~Jit>JD~*"!i!li>.$~'i!il;·:·:·:·:rt;·:·i'i~ii:i·i:iii"i"iii:i*;-. 
ard Grosso said the type of
Thomas Ryan s;i.id, referring tci CGmpus Dellvety
business a member was en­
the many anti-war protests of 

gaged in was not a concern of
that decade. 


the stock market. He said
Police dragged some of the 

standards for admission re­
demonstrators away by the 

quired only that a member
arms, others were transported 

distribute its stock nationally,
on stretchers. Ten buses were 

and that the company be in a
on hand, along with a similar 

sound ftnancial condition. 
number of small police wagons. 


Most of the protesters were taken to police headquarters uptown from Wall Street. The overflow was taken to Brooklyn for booking. 
Most of them were charged with disorderly conduct, ob­struction of governmental ad­ministration. Those-who lay down werebooked for resisting arrest; Police said 750 sum­
mons  were  issued  and  209  
persons  were  jailed.  It could  
not  be  determined  if  some  

· protesters received more than 
one summons. 
Stock Exchange officials had been asked by demonstration leaders earlier this month to suspend 61 members who deal in nuclear weapons and power. In turning them down, Stocllc Exchange Vice President Rich­
'~ 

· © Con11nental Restaurant Syslems 1979 
,. Ill'"! 

The most delicious, most sumptuous dinners ~our new menu could offer ... Luscious entrees come complete with salad, vegetable, bread, and your choice of baked potato, rice, or french fries ... Our modest prices complete this tasty picture . . . So add a little spice to your dining . 

Jack Anderson 8:00pm October 30 Library Auditorium 
sponsored by the S.U. Academic Commission 
" 

DINNER FOR $5.45 
When you're really hungry, order a complete 
dinner with all the trimmings at a price that 
tastes as good as the food ...There's 
succulent prime rib, fresh fish, and saucy ,teriyaki chicken ...It's more than a 
mouthful ... 
Sunday 
Noon to 4p.m. 
Mon. thru. Thurs. 
5p.m. to 7p.m. 




Those tasty creations that11 tickle your palate and tantalize·your pocketbook ...Imagine the sirloin supreme, top sirloin covered with Monterey Jack cheese, sauteed mushrooms, onions and peppers ...Or juicy beef brochette, charbroiled sirloin bits marinated in a delicious burgundy sauce...There's even a fresh catch of the day for seafood lovers...They must be tried to be believed . . . 
52885 U.S. 31 North South Bend, 272-5478 
Phone for reservations 
I 
1 

NEW YORK (AP)-To the beat of a brass band, more than 1,000 anti-nuclear demonsta­tors tried in vain yesterday to close the New York Stock Exchange on the 50th ann:iver­sary of the stock market crash. 
Police reported 959 arrests in what was the largest of seyeral anti-nuclear demonstrat:ions across the nation. 
In Washington, D.C., about 250 protesters blocked door­ways to the Energy Department and rallied on Independence Avenue, and 88 persons were taken into custody during a protest at the Trident NuClear Submarine base in Bangor, Maine. 
In New York, scores of demo­onstrators jammed the ex­change on Wall and Broad streets, saying their tar1~ets were ftrms that ftnance the nuclear industry. 
Judo Oub ·meets at 
Rock 
The ND-SMC ] udo Club will meet tonight at 7:00p.m. in the old weight room on the third floor of the Rockne Memorial. Information regarding new in­structors and club elections will be discussed. All are invited to attend. 
"Don't ~o to work today and take a holiday from death,'' one demonstrator urged the Stock Exchange employees. 
Wall and Broad streets were dosed, but traffic was backed up for nine blocks on nearby Broadway. 
Among the ftrst to be arrested was Daniel Ellsberg, key ftgure in the Vietnam-era Pentagon Papers case. He went quietly. 
'Don't go to work today and take a holiday from death!' 
The exchange brought many of its employees in early and opened on schedule at 10 a.m. to active trading. "We intend to remain open and Dperate nor­mally,'' said one exchange official. 
On the exchange floor, a roar went up when the 10 a.m. bell signaled the start of trading. 
"Usually they cheer when it's closing," said James Fuller, a senior vice president. "All the people are in. We're fully staffed. It has had no effect on the market." 
Aside from occasional brief scuffling at police barricades, the mood was festive, with the 15-p~ece band providing circus mustc. 
"I haven't had this much fun since the 1960s." Police Capt. 

' 
~-·------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
i"' ~he Observer : Tuesday, October 30, 1979 -JYGge si 
Do you want to become a certified 
SCUBA DIVER? 
/ 

AU interested ND-SMC students­
Organizational meeting Tuesday, Oct. 30 at 7:30pm in Room 2D o.f LaFortune Student Center If you are serwus, come ready to pay q, $30 deposit. 
Course Fee Includes : 
* 
Textbook and all class materials. 

* 
Your own mask, fins, & snorkel to keep.

* 
All other equipment rental 

* 
Licensed NASDS instruction 


The world could use a few good miracles along about now. 
Like a miracle of love. And a miracle of dedication and concern for our fellow man. This is the work of the Priests of Holy Cross. To serve our fellow man, and to make the world a better place in which to live. What about you? If a total commitment is what you're looking for, join us. Odds are you'll never turn water into wine, but you will help turn hatred into love. And that is the greatest miracle of them all. 
For Information write: Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Vocations Office Box 541 Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
AMERICAN POPS 
CELEBRATION 

BOSTI POPS ARRII&ER NEWTON WAYLAND llfST CIIICJS JHE SIIJH IEID SYMPHIY 
SPCf'.JS~J:IEO B'r' P~NTS ANCINVIVIOUS OF SCJLJTH BEND 
INTE~Tic::>r\jAL YEAR OF THE CHILO 

I 
JJ~IETS 3.50 
AVAII.ABL.f AT BOX OFFICE & CMAfVeEA OF COMMEFlCE 

FRIDAY, NOV. 2, 1979 
7:30p.m. n•UIIIIU.-IIItiM"S If ..__ _...._.,___ST. MIRY'S Cllfl,SIJHIll,----=L--~ 
Annual money maker 
CILA organizes card sale 
by Tom Behney 
CILA 's general moneymak­ing project, the annual Christ­mas card sale, will begin on November 1 and end December 
7. The cards will be sold in dining halls, door-to-door in all dorms, in the Library con­course, during lunch at LaFor­tune Student Center and on Sundays at Sacred Heart Church. The cost of the cards is one dollar for ten cards and all proceeds go to the CILA gene­ral fund. 
"It's a project that enables us to do our work, to achieve the purposes of Cila,'' stated Mark Wathen, head of the organiza­tion. ''The general purposes of CILA are to change structural social injustices and affect soc­ial change, not J.ust charity work," remarke Worthen. CILA is structured to achieve these ends both on a campus level and in the outside com­munity. 
Seven commissions: educa­tion, community service, sum­mer projects, spiritual forma-
SMC repairs Regina Hall pool. 
By Kelly Sullivan 
The Regina Hall pool was barren of both students and water last week when the Saint Mary's maintenance depart­ment took advantage of the October break to accomplish some repair work on the pool. 
George Peterson, supervisor of the Saint Mary's power plant, explained that the annual servicing is not done over the summer because the pool is used regularly by the school's nuns. The servicins included draining and repamting the pool. Plans are also being made to install new underwater lights. 
The pool is still empty be­cause the paint used in the pool requires seven days to set. The pool will be refilled at midnight on Tuesday, and the process should be com.Pleted by Wed­nesday evenmg. However, Peterson added that the water temperature may be too cool to swim until Thursday. 
Pool hours are noon to 1:00 and 4:00 p.m. to midnight Monday through Thursday. On Friday and Saturday, the pool closes at 11 p.m. 
tion, communications, ..funds and social, comprise CILA. One example of what these commis­sions do is the summer project in Oakland. The students invol­ved organize a community group in a poorer neighborhood to help the ·people fight for better services and more parti­cipation and consideration in l_ocal goverrment. "When the students leave, the project should ideally be able to conti­nue. It has been fairly success­ful,'·' stated Wathen. 
Another project CILA initiat­ed was the Urban Plunge. Now separate from the organization, the education commissioners of CILA still serve as advisors for the Plunge. 
CILA is also heavily involved in South Bend community work. The Portage Manor Nursing Home, the Family and Children 
,{:enter --_which IS run for or­
phans and juveniles from brok­
en homes--, the Northeast 
Neighborhood Center and  the  
Corvilla House  -­ a  home  for  
mentally  retarded  -­ are  all  

weekly projects which CILA works on during the school 
year. 
CILA also has three activities for its members. In the fall, an Orientation Weekend facilitates communication within the group, helping to inform mem­bers of the year's activities.. Also, a retreat for CILA mem-

UAW local says Chrysler closing will affect 40,000 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-If Chry­sler Corp. closes its doors, other industries will be affected and more than 40,000 Indiana residents will be out of work, the head of a United Auto Workers union local told a congressional subcommittee yesterday. 
''How do you 1:\uantify the human misery It would create?'' Larry Schick, presi­dent of United Auto Workers Local 1226, asked congressmen at a hearing called by Rep. David W. Evans, D-Ind. 
'']oblessness creates despair, frustration, loss of dignity and family problems far in excess of the norm," said Schick, who is also a Chrysler employee. 
Schick was one of five Hoosiers to testify before the House Banking subcommittee on economic stabilization, here to explore how serious a finan­cial crises Chrysler faces and to determine the effects on the nation's economy of a bankruJ?t Chrysler. The committee ts 
considering legislation  to  bail  
out  the  nation's  no.  3  auto  
maker.  

Indiana is second only to Michigan in the number of Chrysler employees, with almost 15,000 Hoosiers working for the auto manufacturer. 
Chrysler, which announced in July that it would lose more than $700 million this year, is asking the government for $750 million in loan guarantees. 
New Castle and Kokomo, both heavily dependent upon the automaker, would face severe problems if C~sler went out of business. Schick said. 
''Even IndianaP.olis,~hich has a more diversified industrial base, would feel the pinch," he bers is held each February. Also scheduled is a workshop sometime in February for CILA will sponsor an organization called Network. This will teach members lobbying techniques for helping underprivileged people. Last year this workshop was a seminar on how to successfully organize a com­munity. "We also hope that members get personal benefits 

, from theu association with CILA --spiritual and social benefits," said Wathen. 
The group has been in exis­tence for eighteen years and has had a number of accomp­lishments. They not only start­ed the Urban Plung~ but also the formation of a local Amnes­ty International chapter. There have been positive benefits for the community. The city ot South Bend is now setting up programs similar to the pro­grams CILA has. An elderly discount program first set up by CILA is now being run by a local parish. CILA also started Neighborhood Roots. 
''But the most significant indication of our success is the number of individuals who have formed a lifetime commitment to positive social change be­cause of their experience with CILA. This is the best indica­tion of our program and I am well satisfied ·with the results to date," concluded Wathen. 
said. 
The owner of three Indiana Chrysler-Plymouth dealerships told the subcommittee it was not easy for businessmen to ask the government for financial­assistance. 
"In fact, it's about the last thing that any businessman would want to do." said Tom O'brien. "Chrysler Corporation is not any different. 
"At this point, hOwever, it'sa a question of survival. There­fore, you worry a little less about embarrassment, ridicule, 
public criticism, and just hang your head and ask.'' 
O'brien said Chrysler is not ' asking the government for a handout or gift, and will pay back the loans. 
WSND' 

[continued from page 6] 
there have to be limitations on' the amount of alcohol permitted on campus.'' 
On the more general question of alcohol abuse among college students, Roemer commented "I consider it (college alcohoi abuse) a problem. Ifthere is a significant proportion of stu­dents who get in the habit of getting wasted every Friday night, then that's a pattern that could hold over into later life -­and that's a serious problem." 
Although Roemer had prais­ed ~e stat~oo manag.ement for theiC handltng of station affairs since the Radio Free Notre Dame incident, he also made it clear that specific actions should be taken to funher improve the station's operation . 
-The Observer Tuesday, October 30, 1979-page 9 
According to Kuhn 
Mays fails to represent 'integrity' 
NEW YORK (AP) -Willie Mays, tears welling in his eyes, said yesterday that he is more bewildered than embittered by the baseball commissioner's ruling that he mu~t sever all connections with the game be­cause he accepted ~ multimil­
liori.-dollar post with an Atlantic City hotel and gambling casino. 
"Baseball has been my life-I worship the game," the 48-year old Hall ofFame star said. ''But it's very important that I take care of my family. 
"It looks like I am being 
· farmed our. That's not the case. I am going with a wonderful $roup. I have to give up my affiliation with the Mets. I don't know why. That confuses me. But I am not leaving baseball totally. I will be back." ·· Mays made his comments at a press luncheon at which he formally signed a contract with Bally Manufacturing Corp., parent ~f.the Pa_;k Place hot~l, 
1:0 participate m commumty affrurs and special events. The contract calls for $1<)0,000 a 
year for three years with a provision for an additional se­ven years at an escalating salary that would peak at $150,000 in 1989. 
Earlier in the day, Mays had met for an hour wlth Commis­
• • . White 
[continued from page 12) 
take a 21-7 lead after the two teams traded scon~s in the first half. But every time the Irish scored in an attempt to come back, USC retaliated with a score of its own to keep its lead. 
Ferguson, in a nationally­televised battle with White m an attempt to get votes for the Heisman Trophy, provPrl to be 
most of Notre D~ Afense in the first ' aL, c.···ning 133 yard~fon 16 carries (he ended UJ> with 185 yards for the game), but when the Irish fell behind, they turned to quarter­back Rusty Lisch in their come­back attempt. 
Lisch responded by complet­ing 11 of 20 passes in the second half to get the Irish back in the game. But the USC defense stiffened in the closinK minutes of the game to shut off any Notre Dame hopes. 
''They came up with the big plays when they needed to,'' Lisch commented. "Our prob­lem was just a matter of execution." Still, Lisch passed for 286 yards, a career high at that time. 
, . "We have to bounce back," Devine noted, "but we've done that before. ' ' 
ARwn~oo·s 
BAfER & HAIR 
STYLE SHOP. 1437 N. Ironwood Dr South Bend 277-0615 
Sue. RuthieI Kim Armando--stvlist mon-wed-fd 8;..5:30 
tues-thu11 8-8 pm sat 8-2 by appt.. onlu at:.no appl n~eded 
sioner Bowie Kuhn in the latter's office. Kuhn told him categorically that if he accepted the Atlantic City position, he must disassociate himself from an existing contract with the New York Mets. 
Mays had two years to go in a "sweetheart contract" which he signed with the late Mets' owner, Joan Payson, after be­ing traded to the New York club 
'The commissioner 's· 
main job is to 
protect that integrity' 
I 
by San Francisco. The contract called for $50,000 a year for 10 1 years. after Willie's retirement. The one time Giants' center fielder said his meeting with the commissioner was an ami­
able one, Galthodgli · he neVer understood the reasoning be­hind his being forced to give up his baseball connection. 
"The commissioner didn't try to change my mind, we just talked the matter over,'' Willie said. "When 'I saw that h1s decision was· going to stand, .I said 'Thank you' and got up and walked out. 
"Don't blame the commis­sioner. The decision was with me. We left with kind words. I have no bitterness in my heart." 
Mays was asked if he plan­ned to contest the decision in the courts. 
"You know me," he replied. ''I am not going to fight baseball. If I challenge the commissioner, I challenge baseball. I am not &oing to do that. I am not gomg to say baseball is wrong." 
Kuhn. interviewed later in his office, told The Associated Press that his decision was based strictly on his determina­tion to r.rotect the integrity of basebal. 
''The greatest single thing we've got in this game is integrity,'' the commissioner insisted. ''The commissioner's main job is to protect that integrity.'' 
' 

IT'S AlONG WAY TO· THE FINISH LINE. 
I 

Everything's ahe~d of you and nothing stands in your 
way. It's time to try your legs. To get up and go. And there's no better place to do it than with the company that keeps America moving, Clark. 
Our worldwide, fortune 200 organization can off~r you the opportunity to grow and improve in a w1de range of career paths. As leaders iri the manufac­t~re of heavy ~uipment for farming, construction; Industry and ·transportation, we provide you with choice. And challenge. 
We're Clark. Spanning 119 nations. With 
sales in excess of $1.5 billion. A cohesive team of professionals, 21,000 strong. We're Clark and we move things. Including careers. 
..,, 

''!ii Clark r~presentatives will visit your campus on 
MONDAY, November· 5th 
Stop by and find out about us, or see your Placement Office for further detai Is. 

\ 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 
-----------------------T 
I I I

RIVER CITY I 
!I I
II 
I

RECORDS I I 
II 

I :1 northern indiana's largest I !~-' record and tope selection I I .'1:'"' · and concert ticket headquarters I 


-
_j 


The Observer -Sports Tuesday, October 30, 1979 -page 10 

Notre Dame with 4:35 to play 1
[continuedJ'rom page 12] and Meredith. Seah ks 
enabled the Pioners to ice the Denver continued the pres-aw against Denver." victory. Marty Steinley scored sure in the final period and (Jreg Meredith and Dave Pou­on the ensuing, power play at unleashed 17 shots on Me-• 
Fal ns 

lin gave the Irish their only two 16:03, and Dar~ll Morrow add­Namara, who barely had time to filp CQ leads ofthe series in the first 30 ed Denver's final goal 22 sec­recover from the previous 20 minutes of Friday's contest . onds later. minutes, when hefaced19 flying ATLANTA (AP) --Jim Zorn After Meredith's goal at 18:12 Laurion totaled 28 saves for discs. He totalled 40 saves fo accounted for two touchdowns 
of the first period put the Irish the Irish while Pioneer goalie the night while looking impres-and set up a third with a 
on top 1-0, Poulin responded to Scott Robinson, who played sive in his WCHA debut. 20-yard pass to placekicke 
a Denver goal by Gary Nedelak both nights, made 23. Goals by Andy Hilliard and Efren Herrera, and the Seattle 
with his first of the year at 10:05 The Pioneers struck early Vince Magnan for Denver at 
• • . Irish 
drop 
of the second period for a 2-1 Saturday night arid the Irish did 6:00 and 10:48 of the third lead. not dent the net until midway period insured its second vic­
• The best Notre Dame could through the second period. By tory. Meredith rammed home manage after that, however, then, however, Notre Dame the final goal of the series at
sertes 
was a tie. Tom Michalek was trailing 3-0. 18:06, but by then it no longer knotted the score 3-3 with a Kevin Humphreys and Jeff mattered. The Irish had been shorthanded tally at the end of Brownschidle scored for i:he outskated and out hustled, but the second. Irish at 9:17 and 16:48, respec­most importantly, found them-
Denver struck early in the third tively, of the second perioa to selves 0-2 (1-2 overall) after period with a goal by Rob close the gaf to 3-2. Brown­their first league series. It's the Anderson, and a questionable schidle's goa came on a perfect third time Notre Dame has been tripping penalty, at best, on setup by freshman Kin Bjork swept in an opener. 



Molarity by Mi:cliael.IV1;olinelli 
WHY ARE 1JE Hf'R£ SO I:MLY FOR TJt/5 MOVI~? 

ball would be there. 
"I went right at the safety. He took a step back, but Rusty didn't see me at first. I moved over a little, then Rusty saw me and hit me. It all happened so fast.'' 
While the game's final mom­ents expired quickly, it first appeared that it would be a long afternoon for the Irish. 
Despite rolling up 530 total offensive -yards, Notre Dame just couldn't seem to cash in on any scoring opportunity. Irish possessions end~d seven times on punts, twice on missed
ACROSS 25 Swiss song 47 Edits 11 Dessert 
"-want for 27 Memory 50 Purge item 
Chuck Male field goal attemps Christmas" 28 Coin of old 52 Long-legged 12 Sicilian 
of 54 and 34 yards, once on an 5 Spoof Poland bird mount 
interception and once when 10 State 29 Young boy 54 Greek 13 Check 
The Daily Crossword 
running back Ty Barber was 
firmly 32 Furious letter 21 Lawyer: 
stripped of the pigskin by
14 Control 34 Metal 55 Untruths abbr. 
defensive back Andy Hastings
15 Oxen of the refuse 56 Sao-22 Nabokov 
at the USC 22-yard line.
Celebes 35 Swiss river 57 Suggestive heroine 16 Portal 36 Colors glance 24 Trunk 
"It wasn't a matter of not 17 Strikes 37 Circumspect 58 Gaelic 26 Spree 
moving the ball,'' offered forcibly 38 Latvian 59 Alpine 28 Winglike 
Lisch. "We did that fairly well. 
18 Hugh or port sportsman 30 Jason's 
It was just a matter of getting it
Epsom 39 Mostel 60 Bridge ship 
into the endzone.Penalties (five
19 Years: .Lat. 40 -de combat partner 31 Cherished 20 Fireproof 41 Furnishing 61 Sense 32 Cutting 
for 63 yards) and turnovers material: style 62 Past or tool 
killed us.'' abbr. 42 Catch-all future 33 Omsk "no" 
The Carolina running game 21 Totaled abbr. 63 Iowa college 34 Dessert 
also hun the Irish throughout
22 Of birds 43 Change town item 
the game. All-American cand­
23 Certain 44 Rural road 35 Combat site 
date George Rogers rushed for
train 45 Courage DOWN 37 Scorch 
113 yards, while teammate
1 Tapestry 41 Miami's 
2 Control county 

Spencer Clark bettered that ef­3 Odorous 43 Vehicle 
fort with 116 yards, including a food 44 Poe heroine 
49-yard touchdown run wh1ch
The Observer regrets 4 Office-46 Artist's 
led to USC's 14-3 lead midway 
WJ ·'l OJ. ~-.,. holders need 
through the third quarter.
5 Fiddle's 47 Sounds of

that it does not have 
''Rogers is a heckuva back,
partner breathing 6 Positive 48-Things here 

and so is Clark,'' said Devine. 
terminal 49 Out of­
7 British 50 Treble or poet laure­bass ate of old 51 Read:Fr. 
8 Sweets 53 Devastate 9 Feminine 56 Clock-ending setting 10 Century letters plant 57 Meadow 

1Jf&iE1JlANi 111&00~1\A:!I ~W. JAWUQtl(·~ QtOOm1JliE~iE.:!IAfNOOOOmH 
Important and Required Meeting for all Interested Carroll Hall-Madeleva Building Saint Mary's College Tuesday, October 30, 1979-6:3~m 
the solution for the 
last 'Daily Crossword' 
All Rights Reserved 
--___:_-~ 
Phone: 272-0312 277-1691 272-8471 
Are you tired of high prices? Then you need to take advantage of our prices!!
-
Tues., Wed., &Thurs. receive 10% off a styled cut, shampoo, air dry, and condition Reg. price $10.00, 
Hours: Mon. 10:()()-8:30 please show ID 54533 TERRACE LANE Tues-Frl 8:30-8:3V One Block East ri IronwOOd 
• Sat 8:30-5:30 North of State Road 23 
''They played errorless foot-, ball--no fumbles--and that was 1 the key to the getting ahead. All the things that we did wrong came at terrible times." 
But, as recent Irish tradition would have it, the Notre Dame comeback couldn't have been more timely. 
Slides-information from former students-applications A sophomore program-only in exceptional cases for juniors 
'
0 The. Observer -SportsBoard 
Football 
Saturday 
.South Carolina 0 0 17 0 -17 Notre Dame 3 0 7 8 -1 B 
Scoring NO-Male 40 field goal. SC -McKinney 62 pass from Harper (leopard kick) SC -Clark 49 run (Leopard kick) SC -Leopard 33 field goal N D -Ferguson 26 run (Male kick) N D -Masztak 14 pass from Lisch (Holohan pass from Lisch 
usc ND First downs 15 24 Yards rushing 270 147 Yards passing 68 383 Passes comp.-att. 2-9 25-44 Had Intercepted 0 1 Total yards 338 530 Fumbles-lost 2-D 1-1 Penalties-yards 2-12 5-63 Punts-average 1Q-39.2 7-30.0 
Individual Leaders 
RUSHING. USC: Clark 14-116, Rogers 3Q­113, Dorsey 8-28. NO: Ferguson 21-94, Barber 5-22. 
PASSING. USC: Harper 2-9-D, 68. NO: Lisch 24-43-1, 336; tiolohan 1-1-0, 47. 
.-, RECEIVING. USC: McKinney 1-62, Rogers 1-6. NDc Masztak 6-78, Dickerson 4-111, Holohan 4-53, Hunter 3-72. 
GAME SUMMARY First Quarter Teams exchange punts until Notre Dame gets possession at own 20 with 6:21 left. Rusty Lisch hits Tony Hunter down left sideline for 39 yards to South Carolina 41. Passes to Ty Barber (12 yards) and Dean Masztak (six) set up Chuck Male's 40-yard field goal with 4:01 left. Score: N D 3, USC 0. 
Second Quarter Teams exchange punts until NO takes over at own 32 with 5:51 left. Passes from Lisch to Ty Dickerson (23 yards) and Tony Hunter (13) help Irish move to USC 30. Ty Barber, after a gain of eight, is stripped of the ball by USC's Andy Hastings at USC 22. NO gets ball back after punt, and marches from own 11 to USC 37, from where Chuck Male misses 54-yard field goal attempt on last play of half. 
Third Quarter 

USC marches 82 yards in five plays to take the lead. They score on 62-yard touchdown pass from Garry Harper to Zion McKinney at 
9:45. Leopard converts from placement. Score: USC 7, NO 3. Irish stopped and forced to punt. Six-yard punt gives USC possession at NO 49. On the next play, at 6:49, Spencer Clark runs around left end for 49 yards and touchdown. Leopard converts from placement. Score USC 14, NO 3. Irish forced to punt again, gives USC possession at own 41 with 5:22 left. Clark run of 12 yards and pass Interference on Irish help set upLeopard's 33-yard field goal with 1:52 left. Score: USC 17, NO 3. On subsequentpossession, Lisch hits Barber for 17 yards and hits Holohan for 22 yards, which help set up Vagas Ferguson's 26-yard touchdown run around right end with 17 seconds left. Male converts from placement. Score: USC 17, NO 10. 
Fourth Quarter 

From N D 47 with 14:08 left, Holohan, on a flanker reverse, hits Dickerson on 47-yard pass tO---USC 6. After an illegal procedure penalty, two incompletions and a swing pass for minus-six ·yards, Male misses a 34-yard field goal attempt. Neither team can sustain a drive, so a series of punt exchanges finally gives N D the ball on own 20 with . 1 :36 left. Lisch hits Holohan over the middle for 12, hits Holohan on right sideline for 15, hits Dickerson right sideline for18, hits Ferguson for 18. NO calls timeout with 1:061eft, now at USC 35. After one incompletion, Lisch pass is deflected by defense back into Lisch's hands; he runs for three-yard gain on Lisch-to-Usch pass. With 42 seconds left,. Lisch, in the pocket, hits Masztak illo Aile endzona for 14-yard touchdown pass. On the two-point attempt, Lisch rolls out left and hits Holohan in corner of endzone. Score: NO 18, USC 17. USC turns bail back over to NO with 20 seconds left after foor straight incompletions. Lisch falls on ball twice as clock'runs out. 
Hockey 
Friday 

Denver  0 3 3-6  
Notre Dame  1 2 1-4  
Saturday  
Denver  1 2 2--5  
Notre Dame  (}21--3  

Tuesday, October 30, 1979 -f,agi li 
THE TOP AF' TWENTY 
The Top Twenty teams In The Associated Press college football poll, with first-place votes In parentheses, records and total points. Points based on 2D-19-18-17-16-15-14­13-12-11-1D-9-B-7-6-5-4-3-2-1. 
1.Aiabama (46) 2. Nebraska (7) 3.So. California (4) 4.Houston (1) 5. Ohio State (5)6. Florida State  7-D-D 7-Q-Q 7-D-1 7-D-D 8-Q-Q 7-Q-Q  1,235 1,176 1,083 1,058 1,052 900  
?.Oklahoma  6-1-D  877  
8.Texas  5-1-Q  811  
9.Arkansas  6-1-Q  775  
10.Michigan 11.Brigham Young 12.Pittsburgh13.Notre Dame  7-1-Q 7-D-D IH-Q 5-2-Q  662 653 546 472  
14.Wake Forest  7-1-D  458  
15.Purdue  6-2-Q  301  
16.Washington 17.Tennessee 18.North Carolina  6-2-Q 4-2-Q 5-1-1  259 177 140  
19.Penn State  5-2-D  126  
20.Auburn  5-2-Q  92  



Bil(y Martz'n 
Sports Briefs. _ __, 
Hockey tickets availab.le 
Students still interested in purchasing season hockey tickets for the 1979-80 season have until Thursday of this week to do so. Some good seats still remain. Packages can be purchased for only Fnday games, only Saturday games, or both nights combined. Packages are priced at the equivalent of $1 per 
~arne. 

Jim Browner shines 
CINCINNATI (AP) -This week it is]im Browner's turn to get the attention usually accorded to his brother Ross. 
Both Browners played for Notre Dame and both now play for the Cincinnati Bengals. However Ross was a first-round selection in 1978, while his brother was the Bengal's last pick in the most recent National Football League draft. ·• 
It was Jim Browner who was drawing the crowds Sunday after he intercepted a pass and recovered a fumble to set up two scores in the Ben gals 37'-13 victory over Philadelphia. 
' 

'iNY manager ~seals fate 
NEW YORK (AP) Billy Martin sealed his fate as man­ager of the New York Yankees 
· when he got word to owner ~orge Steinbrenner that he had hit an Illinois marshmallow salesman during a Blooming­ton, Minn., hotel argument last week, a source close to the team said Monday. 
Publicly, Martin had claimed Joseph Cooper of Lincolnshire, Ill., tripped and cut himself. The salesman suffered a cut lip requiring between 15 and 20 stitches. But the source, who asked that his name not be used, told the Associated Press that the manager admitted to the Yankee boss through an intermediary that he had hit Cooper. Martin did not speak directly with Steinbreneer, the source said. 
Steinbrenner decided Sunday that he'd had enough of Mar­tin's bar room bouts and re­placed the emliattled manager with Dick Howser, a longtime Yankee coach who had left the club last year to become base­ball coach at Florida State University. 
Steinbrenner was crushed by the affair, according to the source, and remained unavail­able for comment Monday on the latest turn of events in the continuing Yankee drama. Martin, too, refused to talk about the matter. 
The Yankees have called a news conference for Thursday to introduce Howser. 


Tuesday, October 30, 1979-page 12
SRorts 
Lisch leads 18-17 comeback as ND tradition continues 
by Paul Mullaney Assistant Sports Editor 
Twelve yards to Pete Holo­
han...to Holohan again for 15. 
.. to Ty Dickerson for 18... the 
same to Vagas Ferguson ... a 
pass deflected back to himself 
for three. . . four~een yards to 
Dean Masztak in the endzone. . 
. roll-out left to Holohan for the 
conversion... and the Irish had 
done it again. 

Rusty Lisch, prize pupil of Joe Montana's School of the Comeback, had just passed Notre Dame 80 yards in 54 seconds to complete the type of come-from-behmd triumph that has become commonplace with coach Dan Devine's Irish. 
''It was just a matter of going out and doing what we do in practice--the two-minute drill," smiled Lisch after Saturday's 18-17 victory over South Caro­lina at Notre Dame Stadium. ''We did what we had to do.'' 
The senior signal-caller com­pleted all but one of seven aerial attempts in the last­minute victory drive, success­fully connecting with his receiv­ers in openings between the Gamecock linebackers and deep backs. 
''They only rushed three people. They were backed up deep with their safeties, and underneath their linebackers were spread out,'' contended the fifth-year student from Belleville, Ill. "We just tried to hit in between. We would have beaten our heads against the wall by throwing long. 


For a more detailed game 
report, see SportsBoard on page 11. 
"l think a good rush. is the best defense against the pass. I've always questioned drop­ping your receivers back deep.'' 
Lisch was pressured little by the Carolina rush throughout the contest. In fact, he had enough ti,me to throw 24 com­pletions for 336 yards--a per­sonal high and the most passing yardage for Notre Dame since Montana threw for 358 yards against Southern California in 1978. 
"You've got to give the credit to my offensive line,'' said Lisch. "There wasn't one time when l was rushed, had a hand in my face, or was threatened-­especially in that last drive." 
Things didn't work quite so smoothly throughout the course of the game, however. "rhe independent visitors from the South looked flawless much of the time in posting a 17-3 lead and continually thwartiQg the Irish from reaching the end zone. 
''They did something that most teams do to us--play a defense we've never seen," said Devine. "They also played some offense that we've never seen. 
''They have been a strong defensive unit all year. After losing their opener to North Carolina, they've gone to a simple, bas1c attack, and they've won five games. 

Today they played a little o what they did in the last five games and a little from the first game. 
"They gave us fits all day," added Devine. ''But I'm so proud of our players for not quitting that I can't be critical right now." 
Notre Dame's bread-and­butter rushing attack could muster little more than Fergu­son's 94 yards in 21 carnes against the Gamecock defense. But the Irish passing attack more than made up for it. 
"We wanted to run the ball,'" affirmed tight end Masztak, whose six receptions netted 78 yards. ''But they switched defenses on us, using a couple of different stunts. We were forced to pass more, and the passing was right there." 
And Lisch was there, too, to change things when the Caro­lina defense presented pro­blems. The game-winnin& two-point conversion, in fact, was an audible. 
"We used two wide-outs at both sides," said Devine. "Rusty read the play very well. He had the option to go to either side and he went to the RIGHT side by going left.'' 
Lisch also implemented his own strategy on the touchdown pass to Masztak. 
"Rusty told Dean to hook at the goalline and we sent both of our tailbacks out to control the linebackers. That helped Dean to get open,' ' said Devine. 
"Rusty called the play in the 
[continued on page 10] 


USC awesome 
White, MacDonald too much 
But no! He dances to the goa/line. 
by Mark Perry Sports Editor 

''They w~re the best offens­ive team I've ever seen." 
With those words Notre Dame coach Oan Devine came up with the best explanation as to why the Trojans of Southern Califor­nia left South Bend with a convincing 42-23 victory over the Fightmg Irish on October 20. 
"I have to credit USC more than I can be critical of our team," Devine added. "We had a chance to quit and didn't. 
Basically  that's  what  it's  all  
about.''  
"We  have  nothing  to  be  

ashamed of,'' echoed Notre Dame's star tailback Vagas Ferguson, who had an impres­sive day in a losing cause. "We played them hard and good, and you can't ask for more." 
USC running back Charles White and quarterback Paul MacDonald both enjoyed the best days of their careers, with much of the credit going to the Trojans' huge offensive line. 
''The offensive line was the key today," MacDonald said in praise. "They're the stilmulus for passing and running. No matter what kind of talent you have in the backfield, it won't do any good without a good offensive line. Our line played a great game today, and opened holes. so we could, take it to them." 
''USC's offensive line had some ve~y good individuals, but as a umt they were awesome. 
Together they were as good as gained nearly 600 yards (591 any we have faced,'' added total offense). Irish defensive end John Hank­"Still, I've got to credit Notre erd. Dame. Each time we scored it _The play of that line helped seemed like it would take White gam 269 yards on 44 about eight seconds and they carries and allowed MacDonald would score. We were deter­to pass for 311 yards, both mined that we weren't going to personal highs. play conservative, but each 
''The key to the game was time you get a team like Notre our ability to mix the pass and Dame down, it seems to stimu­the run," added USC coach late them.'' John Robinson. "Last week we The Irish got their stimulus in depended too much on our the third quarter, as the Trojans running game. This week we scored two quick touchdowns to were able to mix it up and we [continued on page 9] 
Irish drop opening series 

by Bn(m Beg lane Sports Writer 
. 
Just who were those guys in the white and blue uniforms skating around the Athletic and Convocation Center ice rink Friday and Saturday nights against the University of Den­ver? 
Coach Lefty Smith certainly hopes they were not the Notre Dame hockey team. Unfortun­ately for Smith and the 2,700 fans on hand both nights, there was no mistaken identity against the Pioneers.' 
Denver skated away_ .with a 6-4 victory Friday m~ht and completed the sweep With a 5-3 win Saturday. It was the season-opening series for both clubs in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association, and left Smith with more questions than' answers as he prepares his club for its next senes at Minnesota­Duluth. 

''There were not many things we did right against Denver," said Smith. "Offensively, we did not pass well and failed to capitalize on our o'pportunities. Give Denver all the credit in the world --t_hey beat us to nearly every loose puck. 
"Defensively, we passed the puck poorly in our own zone and could not clear it away from the net. Were it not for the outstanding play of our two goalies, Dave Laurion and Bob McNamara, the score both nights would have been worse. As well as we played against Chicago Circle in our first game, we played just as poorly 
[continued on page 101 


