J 
Billy joel review -page 7
I I I 




Guerrillas kill four in aparttnent raid 
NAHARIYH, Israel (AP) -Four Israelis, including two little girls, were killed early yesterday when Palestinian g-Uerrillas launched a pre-dawn raid from the sea and shot their way mto an apartment building. 
One of the four terrorists was The Israeli dead were 28­shot and killed by a civilian as year-old Daniel Her '• his the attackers attempted to daughters, Einat, 4. ·nd Yael, break into the apartments. A 2, and /olice Sgt. Eliahu second was killed by Israeli Shahar, 2 , cne ot Lhe first to security forces as the guerrillas respond tc calls for help. Four attempted to flee on the beach Israelis suffered minor wounds. and two others were wounded In Beirut, the Pakstine Lib­and captured, the army said. eration Front, an Iraqi-backed 
Meanwhile, military officials facton of Yasser Arafat's Pale­announced that Israeli naval stine Liberation Organization, boats shelled a guerrilla train­claimed resronsibility for rhe ing camp yesterday belonging attack in th1s coastal town of to the Popular Front for the 25,000, about five miles south Liberation of Palestine at Nahr of the Israeli-Lebanese border. E!Berd, north of Tripoli. Pale­The attack claimed more lives stinian spokesmen in Beirut, than any terronst attack this however, said the Israelis year and was the seventh shelled a refugee camp in the border penetration or attempt area. Informed sources in by raiders who have vowed to Beirut said three persons died sabotage the Israeli-Egyptian in the shelling. peace treaty. 
An army spokesman said the One of the Israelis wounded shelling was not related to the in the raid, Charlie Shapira, 36, terrorist attack, but was in line said he was awakened by with Israeli policy of striking all pounding on his door at about 2 guerrilla targets. a.m. (7 p.m. EST). 
''I got my little revolver and I waited," Shapira said. "First they shot through my door and then they started knocking it down. I let the first terrorist get in awl tht:r. l shot him.''

Reid approves record store proposal 
[continued on page 3] 

by K. Connelly record outlet. In a letter notifying Roche of worked out between Student Senior Copy Editor Reid indicated that the reser­the decision, Reid indicated Activities and the Student vations he had shared witb Fr. that he was confident that since Union Services Commission 
Davis speaks 

Director of Student Activities John Van Wolvlear, vice-pres­there will be no1 continuous which will operate the store. John Reid approved Friday a ident for Student Affairs, over inventory, there would be no Curt Hench, Services Com­to crowdpro_posal to establish a Student the initial proposal have been security problems, and no prob­missioner, concurred with Umon Record Store. eliminated in the current pro­lem with transferring the oper­Reid's concern over the lack of 
The approval marks the end posal. ation to a Union that could specificity in the proposal. 

onNAARPR 

of nearly a year of efforts on the Van Wolvlear rejected a pro­possibly be unwilling or unable ''Specifics like the possibility part of Bill Roche, Student posed store in November of last to continue the service in of maintaining a small special by K. ConnellyBody president, and the year because he was concerned coming years. inventory of special sale albums Senior Copy Editor Student Union to make albums about possible security prob­Reid noted that the proposal and new releases, prices, and available to students at low lems that would accompany is very general and that many management will have to be Angda Davis spoke to a costs in a student-operated maintaining an inventory. specific details need to be worked out between Reid, the _.wd of approximately 250 in 
Steering Committee and my-
Washington Hall yesterday

self," Hench noted. · afternoon on of
behalf the 
Hench noted that in spite of National Alliance Against Rac­problems with some indiVidual ism and Political Repressionorders, Fathers and Suns, an (NAARPR).

Tanzanians seize Ugandan city 
Indianapolis record wholesaler, Davis' cogtments centered on commented that the order they 
recent devtlopments surround­JINJ A U~anda (AP) -Tanzanian troops Amin's troops would make a bloody last stand at received from the Student ing affirmauve action pro­capo. . J in1a, Uganda's second city and the J inja and attempt to destroy the dam. ·Union was the most profession­grams, the Bakke decision and last srronghold for troops loyal to Idi Amin, The Uganda-Tanzania wa,r began six months ally organized order they had President Jimmy Carter's 
befort uawn yesterday. Thousands of residents · ago when Amin's troops invaded a 710-square­ever handled. Fathers and human rights policy. threw flowers and shouted, "We are free, we mile section of Tanzania. President Julius Suns is the largest distributor in Davis began by responding to are free.'' Nyerere's forces drove the Ugandans out the Midwest. various criucisms of affirmative 
There was only minor resistance by a few wtthing two weeks and forced them to retreat ''Tremendous volume of the action programs. She stated hundred of the deposed Amin's soldiers. toward Kampala until the capital was taken. sale was what caused the delays that affirmative action is not a 
The Tanzanian force also took control of the Jinja, a city of 50,000, lies '50 miles east of and confusion over some chariable present from the vital Owen Falls hydroelectric dam, which Kampala and sits at the point where the, Victoria orders," Hench 'said. government or a form of wel­supplies all of Uganda's electricity and 15 Nile flows out of Lake Victori. The town controls "With the record store, the fare. percent of the power used in neighboring overland supply routes east toward Kenya and hours will be from 12 to 4 p.m., she said that the $100,000 Kenya. the ('Ort of Mombasa. five days a week, so the volume that former President Richard 
Tanzanian Brig. Gen. Marwe Kambale, whose JinJa residents said rhe city .was held in terror will be more manageable, since Nixon receives yearly is welfare brigade led the attack on Jinja, toured the town for the past two weeks as A,niq's men went on a the ordering will be spaced over and that Nixon is totally unde­wearing a pair of Western-style .45 caliber rampage of looting and indiscriminate murder. a longer period of time." serving of the money. six-shooters strapped to his waist. Some accounts sa1d hundreds of civilians were The store will be run essen­She called him one of the 
The Tanzanians, who along with Ugandan shot. tially the same as the sale, worst criminals that this coun­exiles captured the capital city of Kampala 14 The Rev. Henry Lugolobi, an Anglican according to Hench. He added, try has produced because he days ago, are continuing their drive north and clergyman, said Amm's forces at the Nile brid~e however, that the Services committed crimes against the east to consolidate the power of provisional had killed everyone who had tried to flee JinJa Commission will go out of its people.PresidentJusufu Lule's fledgling government. during the last week. He said the troops way to change the record­Davis said that affirmative 
The Tanzanian forces said there was no sign of bayoneted Anglican Bishop ] ohn Wasiry~ to keeping so that orders can be action is not "special atten­Amin, who was last reported in northwestern death last Monday and threw his body off the processed more quickly. tion.'' She pointed to Patricia Uganda near his hometown of Arua from where Owen Falls Dam. "The record store should be Hearst's presidential pardon as he could easily flee to neighboring Sudan or Tanzanian commanders opened yesterday's ready for full operation when an example of "special atten-Zaire. the students return in the fall,'' 
The provisional government had feared [continued on page 9] Hench said. [continued on page 2) 
-----~-­

------~-----------~­



News in'brief 
Monday, April 23, 1979 -page 2 
Study shows TV violence 
... Davis

reaches record levels 
[continued from page 1] 


tJ an -r:Os-cal
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Violence in network broadcast 
weekend television shows aimed at children rose to record levels on ABC and CBS and a near-record on NBC last fall, according to a study released yesterday. The study also found that young people who are heavy television watchers display an exaggerated sense of fear and mistrust of the world they live in. ''There is a consistent relationship · between fear and the amount of television watched," said Nancy Signorielli, research coordinator for the study. "They (heavy watchers) do perceive the world as much more violent and they are much more fearful.'' Heavy television watchers were defined as those who tune in more than four hours a day. Violence was defined as "hurtin~ or killing a person or the credible threat of hurting and killtng." 
Carson, his bosses gather to try to resolve differences 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Johnny Carson, <his representatives and his bosses met through the weekend trying to resolve the high-paid star's differences with the NBC television network. NBC spokesman Gen~ Walsh said. that discussi~ns would continue, "but they wtll be held pnvately and thetr content will be regarded as privile~ed." Carson, host of NBC's popular "Tonight" show, satd last week that he hoped to quit on Oct. 1 -Carson's 17th anniversary as host of the money-making show. 
Shooting continues in Iran despite declared cease -fire 
TEKAN, Iran (AP)-Turkish and Kurdish factions declared a cea."'e-fire yesterday after three days of fighting that took a reported 25lives in the northweste~~ town.ofNag~ardeh, ~he government announced. But televtston reports satd sho~Jtlng broke out again at dark, and that several persons were killed. 
The government said the cease-fire wa~. reached after religious leaders and government representatives, headed bY. the west Azerbaijan governor, Gen. Mohammad Mehdi Abasi, met with leaders of the two sides. 

Patient lacks patience, 
holds 10 hostage at clinic 
CHICAGO (AP) -A 48-year-old man !Vas held ~n $1_,000 bond, charged with aggravated a~sault m connectton wtth a siege at a clinic in whtch 10 pattents and employees were held hostage. No one was harmed. Police ·said Olmstead Hutcherson was charged Saturday after offi~ers coaxed a~ay from him a 12-gauge shotgun h~ ~ad taken.mto the Madison Pulaski Medical Center on the ctty s north stde. Hutc~erson, an epileptic, told officers he was angry that he had 'Yatte~ an hour and had not been allowed to see a doctor, pohce satd. Clinic employees told investigators that Hutcherson refused to fill out medical forms, waited an hour, left and returned wuh the gun. ' 

Weather 
Increasing cloudiness and mild today, high in the upper 60s. A 50 percent chance of rain ~nd eossible thunde~storms tonight and tomorrow. Low tomght m the low to mtd 50s. High in the upper 60s. Southeast winds 10-15 m.p.h. today. 

CamP-~us_---1 
C) 2m LFCTURE, '_'government and t~e m~dia," by david h. brown, special asststant to the pubhc pnnter of the u.s., Mf.M.. LIB. LUUNGE 
3:30 pm, SOFTBALL, smc vs. st. francis, BOLAND FIELD 
4 pmMEETING,american assoc. of university professors,UNIV. CLUfl . 
7,9,11 pm, "ban.bi", ENGR. AUD. free 
7 pm, LECTURE, by jose espinosa, m.d., pro-life advocate, MEM. UB. AUD. 
7:30pm, FILM, ·providence", WASHINGTON HALL, $1 
7:30 p.m.--ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING, transfer orienta­~ion, LAFORTUNE UTTLE THEATER. 
smc seniors may pick up their graduation announcer:nents today and tomorrow between 11 am~2 pm, and -6-8 pm m the lemans lobby. 

tion." 
''This disturbs me because I know personally people who deserve to be pardoned because they have committed no crime," Davis asserted. 
She explained the case of the Wilmington 10 as an examp~e. Davis said that there extsts affidavits from the prosecution witnesses which state that their testimony had be.en coerced or purchased. 
The Wilmington 10 are eight high school youths, a white woman and -Ben Chavis, a United Church of Christ min­ister. 
In 1971, Chavis was asked by his church to go to Wilmington, NC, to organize parents and students. The Ku Klux Klan attacked the church where Chavis and the other nine were meeting. . 
The National Guard was call­ed in to remove the 10 from the church. 
They were all charged with arson, and Chavis was handed a 34-year sentence. Although the other nine are on parole, Chavis remains behind bars. 
Davis asserts that he is still in prison because if he were to be released, it would be an admis­sion that he was held as a political prisone_r, an~ th~t political oppresston extsts m America. 
Davis then addressed criti­cism that affirmative action programs constituted reverse discrimination. 
''I find it difficult to believe that we people of color are in a position to do this," Davis said, referring to charges that through affirmative action black persons are discriminating a~ainst white persons. . 
'We peorle of color are m a worse posttion politically and economically r.uw than 10 years ago. 
She charged that "people high in government have a central role in insut:ing dw.t tbe heroics that comes into the country and goes into the black community.'' 
''The situation of young black 
[continued on page 4] 
~The Observer 
Night Editor: Beth Huffman Asst. Night Editor: Lynn Tyler Copy Editors: Debbie Dahrling, john Ferroli Layout Staff: Doug Kreitzberg Editorial Layout: Ann Gales Features Layout: Frank Browne Sports Layout: john Smith Typists: Ki1_1l Con'!ley, Bet~ Willard, Bill Swift, Katze Brehl Early Morning Typist: Kim Convey Day Editor: Maribeth Moran Ad Layout: joe Murphy Photographer: john Macor 
The Observer (USPS 598 920] Is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods.The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may bl purchased for $20 par year [$10 persemester] from The Observer, P.O. box Q, Notre bame, Indiana 46556. SICOIId class ~~ paid, Notre Oame, In­diana . 
The Observer Is a 1111111blr of the Associated Prea. All rtpl1llluctlonrights lrt reumd. 

The Second Annual ''Looking for Mr. Goodbar'' Contest has begun! Starting today, and continuing every day through Friday, look in the An Tostal column _of ~e OBSERVER or listen to WSND for the daily clue whtch wdl lead to the location of the "Mr. Goodbar" candy wraprer hidden somewhere on the ND-SMC campuses. By colle<;ttng the clues and piecing together the information, anyone wtth a touch of Sherlock Holmes in his blood can discover the location of the "Mr. Goodbar." Answers, including name, phone number, and the specific locati?n of the wrapper should be submitted to the answer box m the Ombudsman office 2nd floor Lafortune. A drawing from all correct entri;s will be held at the Irish Wake on Saturday night to determine the winner of a dinner for two. HAPPY HUNTING!! CLUE NO.1: THE NINTH PRIME NUMBER. 
World Record Dod£eball--Come out and join in the attempt to set a world record for the largest dodgeball game ever. The game will start at 5:30p.m. at Saint Mary's _on Gentle Thursday. Call Alvin or Ace at 234-1720 for detads. 
-Frisbee Freestyle Championship. Enter the first An Tostal Freestyle~Frisbee Championship Tournament. All entrants must register with Ace at 234-1720 by 6 p.m. on Wednesday. Only 20 teams of two persons each will be signed up. Bring your own Frisbee. Music provided. 
"SMC LaTour" Bike Race! For more information and preregistration call Bob at 2197. Bring your bike on Thursday at 6 p.m. It's a 10-mile rally. 
Come out to the Towers and watch the football game of the century!! The section football champions from ~lann~r and Grace pair up and go at it for the Towers Champ10nshir at 4 
p.m. tomorrow. This new traditio~ kicks off a. celebratton of the tenth anniversary of the Towers constructton. Co~e o~t and enjoy yourselves and see some good football at this btg birthday party. ' 

~ c.Oioo Uit? 
: BASEBALL ADVENTURE :
•

•
:sunday, may 13 WHITE sox YS K.c.: 
•

Tickets Jll.OO on sale monday, : Tuesday, Wednesday and Thutsday 
(Aptil 23, 24, 25, 26) 12:30-2 pm
• 
In Lafortune 
•
•
•
•

...............................~ 
.
-·, 
. ' 
( 

The Observer Monday, April 23, 1979 -page 3 
Against student complaints 
University defends businesses 

by Pat Toomey Jr. StaffReporter 
Editor's Note: This is the first 
in a three-part series dealing 
with campus businesses. 
University-run businesses are an integral part of Notre · Dame, as they provide impor­tant services and contribute substantial sums to the general fund. But many students complain thai: these receive their profits from hi~h prices and monopoly protet.tton. 
Many student suspicions are the result of mininformation, but others may bf' (l"r, unded in fact. Certainly, way .vas that University-run bu!>u.-.oses are currently operated deserves scrutiny. 
Notre Dame runs a wide variety of business Fnterprises, ranging from the Morris Inn to the football team. For finaRcial reporting purposes, these oper­ations are lumped . together 

New bar manager's age poses no real problems : Schlageter 
by Tom jackman Sherer also would like to use 
Senior StaffReporter the new bandstand more by 
bringing in more live bands, 

Selected along with General have more club nights on 
Manager Tom McGrath and Mondays and Tuesdays, in­
club Manager Joe Sherer, volve more off-campus stu­
junior Business Manager Clare dents, compile a collage of 
Stack is Senior Bar's first photos of special events over 
female manager as next year's the fireplace mantel, and, he 
staff begins operation of the bar added, "seniors can expect 
this month. Stack is also the more 'Happy Hours' after foot­
only one of the three who is not ball season ... there's a lot of 
21 years old. things that go on which Senior 
MikeSchlageter, current Gen­Bar could participate in.'' eral Manager, clarified the All three managers were legality of Stack's selection by buoyed by the turnout at Satur­pointing out that Indiana law day's "Junior Nite," which allows a person to be 18 to work Sherer called a ''great success­in a bar as long as heI she is a a definite experience.'' paid employee and, of course, McGrath commented that does not ~r.fnk any alcohol. there will be "an awful lot of Schlageter also pointed out that special activities and different Stack is not the first under-21 types of events,'' and that any manager. She will reach the interior changes ·would be legal age in September. ''minor, functional type 
Stack is looking forward to "a things." He noted that the lot more activities and different staffwould be returning several events to try to keep people days before the opening to work interested throughout the on the bar, without pay, which year,'' and said that the bar he said would help instill "more would like to "have a lot to do pride in the staff.'' with Welcome Week, the first Stack pointed out that ''the week, because kids don't have atmosphere is a little more that much to do then." different than other places, 
She commended this year's since we have four different staff for "an excellent job" in rooms to be in while other bars renovating the building, noting usually have just one or rwo. '' that ''they had to rebuild She also felt that this year's several walls. '' · She also said renovations "have done a lot to that the new dance floor was a improve service;" but Sherer good idea, and that the only pomted out that managers are always restricted in renovations by rwo factors: "the budget, 
which  isn't  enough  to  work  
with, and time."  
Sherer  and  Stack  both  ex­ 

pressed hopes that eventually enough money will be accumu­lated to obtain a new building for the bar, but that will not be in the near future. 
. . .Guerrillas 
[continued from page lJ 
Shapira, a native of Durban, 
South Africa, said the intruder 
fell wounded with a pistol in his 
hand "so I shot him in the 
head;'' He said he was helpless 
as he watched his neighbor 
Heran plead with his captors to 
take him hostage and leave his 
family behind. 
"I was scared to shoot at the terrorist holding my neighbor,'' Sharpira said. "I thought if I killed him, the other one would ·kill the whole family. '' Shapira was wounded by shrapnel after a hand grenade tossed by one of the fleeing guerrillas landed 
nearby. 

other local bar with one was Goose's Nest. Sherer expressed hopes for many intenor changes next 
The'Notte Dame Student Playets

year, none of which, he empha­sized have become final. The 
Qnd

prop~sed changes include en­larging the backyard, changing 
Student Union 

the upstairs lighting system, 
CultutQI Arts Commission 

upgrading food sales, and re­decorating the main bar and 
proudly present

upstairs. Sherer stressed that this year's renovations were just a start, and that the new managers planned to complete 
====;~~·==

any unfinished tasks. Although he could not be 
A Comedy by Jack Sharkey 

certain about prices for next year, Sherer said he was hoping 
Thurs-Fri., Aprill9-20 R:OOpm Mon -Tues .. April23-2/l H:OOpm

for $.40 12-ounce beers, and 
under the term ''Auxtliary En­
terprises." 
Last Jear, the University repone revenues of $25 million in Auxiliary Enter­prises. 
All sources contacted refused to give any specific revenue figures for any University-run businesses. 
When Thomas Mason, vice-
president for Business Affairs, 
was asked for more specific 
figures, he replied "We don't 
do cost accounting. These 
figures aren't broken down." 
Mason expressed the philos­
ophy that hts job is to provide 
services that students need. 
When students contact him 
about starting an on-campus 
business, he tries to find out 
what service they want started. 
If he determines a need for this 
service, he will see how the 
University can operate it. 
Mason described this philos­ophy best when he said, ''If you want a service, I can help you.. But if you want to run a business, then I've got prob­lems." 
Mason strongly defended the current system of University businesses. When asked about the lack of competition that these businesses have, Mason answered, ''We think that there is competition in town, and besides, the auxiliary services provide important revenue to the general fund." 
When students complain about University-run busi­nesses, the bookstore is a he was losing 3 percent on book sales. 
Moran cited high labor costs, rising freight' costs, and prob­lems in gauging demand as his biggest difficulties with text­books. · 
When asked why textbook prices seemed so high, Moran replied, "There is a small quantitiy of books sold in many texts. This drives costs up." 
According :to Moran, the sales of souvenirs and other items is crucial to the book­store's operation. "I feel that 
.we have as good a bookstore as anywhere else. If we didn't have the advantage of being able to sell other items, we couldn't have as good a hood department as we now have," Moran said. 
The bookstore's prices for personal i.ems have recently 
· become a topic of controversy. A survey commissioned by then Student Union Director Bill Roche found bookstore prices for a wide variety of personal items much higher than those in stores in South Bend. 
Moran agreed that Roche's figures were correct, but he claimed that they were narrow and misleading. Moran was especially upset about the price comparison on aspirin, statio~, "We couldn't even buy aspinn at that cost, as it was a loss leader for that store." 
Roche agreed that his origin­al study needed to be more broad-based, and he claimed that a more complete study will 
frequent target of their criti-: be undertaken soon. However, cisms. Many students feel that Roche disputed Moran's prices are too high and the claims, saying,' '1 think that service is not that good. bookstore prices are extremely 
Bro. Conan Moran, bookstore high.'' manager, resents this criticism. Moran did not seem to be too According to Moran, inflation concerned with competition has made textbook sales a student-run businesses. He no-profit business. "If it stated, "Competiti<Jq doesn't wasn't for our other areas in the bother me as a pen>on. The store, we would be going into University could get into the red,'' Moran stated. trouble on sales tax with some 
Discussion with other book-of these businesses, though. store managers convinced They'd have to be certified as Moran that all stores face retial merchants, too. In the similar problems in textbook long run, we'll all be all sales. At a recent convention, right. the manager of a major Eastern university bookstore told Moran 
[continued on page BJ 

.-..-~15!~··~-·--·,
f~~.~ im··. ·······.J."X::i-p_i;\'ier Lity< \......... ··.·J<M· , ·. . . ·.. 
1. Records ! I I
South Bend's largest record I and tape Selection ! I 
I I 
I r--------------~ I 
I I $1.00 off! ! 1 I t coupon •· I
I 1--------------J· I
I $1.00 off any alb~m or tape with thts cour,.)n. Limit 1 one per person. Now through May 7. Not good on
I I
cut-ours, imports or sale items. Couron must beI presented before purchase is rung into cJst. r~gistet. I 
I •ND/SMC checks acr..epred for up to $20.00 1
1 
over purchase amount

• 18,000 albums and tapes in stock'! 1 I
I· I
• Couldn't get whar you wanted from the
I. ~};~~~tl!U~.ion? We'll cash your refund I 
LaFortune Ba~ement (NAZZ) Cldmlssion JI.OO

prices below the present $1.25 
I ···.·. River City Records
for mixed drinks, which he ·called, "too steep... a definite 
I . . JI 
.··)0970U.S. 3. l_North·.-.3..milc:snorthofcampus
Open 10 to 10, 7~ys a week--277-4242
rip-off.'' 
I ' 

~---------------­
The Observer Monday, April 23, 1979 -page 4 

• • • Davis 
-(continued from page 2] 
people is a disaster," she said citing an unemployment rate of 57 percent among young blacks. 
She explained that black youth are susceptible to crimin­al influence because young people have no place to focus their energy and creativity, especially in poor areas popu­lated by blacks where there are no recreational facilities and inadequate schools. 
''Crime is a negative mani­festation of creativity," Davis maintained. 
She claimed that television creates the illusion that black people are doing well while "only a few have been able to slip through the veil ofracism." 
Davis also expressed dis­appointment with the present prison system. She said that prisons are not the answer to crime because the institutions do not rehabilitate offenders but rather educate them to be criminals. 

The Student Union Players are presenting ''Double Throughout her talk, Davis Exposure" in the Nazz. [photo by john Macor] stressed the importance of edu­cation in equahzation of blacks 
and whites in America. 

''There is no such thing as freedom without knowledge," Davis said. 
Large numbers of people are underqualified because ofinfer­ior educational opportunities, according to Davis. She advo­cates that compensary educa­tion be a part of affirmative action program to bring indi­viduals of equal potential up to the same level of those who could take advantage of super­ior eduational opportunities. 
Davis thought it unfortunate that William Bakke saw his admission to medical school in terms of taking a place away from a minority applicant. 
Davis perceives the educa­tion problem as primarily an economic equality. 
"We should shave a little off the defense budget to make it possible for everyone to attend an institution of higher educa­tion if they want to,'' Davis asserted. 
We must fight the mentality that a black victory means a setback for whites," she con­tinued. ''Our fate is tied together." 

1 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 

I 3'~
I For the real beer lover.
1----------------------------­
I I I I I
/ 
I I I I I 
( I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
_____..I 
Davis quoted an old labor movement slogan, emphasizing the need for cooperation be tween blacks and whites, "An injury to one is an injury to all.'' 
''we must take action not only because of a moral impera­tive, but because of the rever­berations 'of black oppression on society as a whole''' she said. 
As an example of her notion of a common fate, Davis noted that as a result of the struggles of black people, the masses, both black and white, have obtained access to quality edu­cation. 
In addition, Davis linked the feminist movement with the progress of the civil rights movement by saying that, "racism has historically estab­lished the criterion for sexual oppression.'' 
Davis concluded her remarks by inviting those present to join the NAARPR in its work. "We must . work for unity across racial lines and political affilia­tions," she stressed., 


ATTENTION 
GRADUATING 
STUDENTS 
Measurements 
will be taken 
for 
CAPS and GOWNS 
Tuesday 
April 24th and Wednesday: April 25th~. between 
9:00-4:30 
at the 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 

The Observer Monday, April 23, 1979 page 5 

byTim]oyce Senior StaffReporter 
Residents of Sorin Hall par­ticipated in a mass clean-up of the areas adjacent to Saint Joseph's and Saint Mary's 
lakes Saturday morning in what hall president Bart Henderson termed, ''A lot of fun while doing some good.'' 
The Sorin Hall council came up with the idea for the lake clean-up a little over a month ago, according to Henderson. "We wanted to do something for the University--this was easy to set up and was some­thing that everyone in the hall could get involved in,'' Henderson said. 
The areas surrounding_ the lakes were the focus of the clean-up activities, including the paths around both lakes, the wooded areas, and the shallow parts of the lakes. 
Between 35 and 40 residents took part in th~ project, wh.ich began at 9:30 m the mormng and lasted until approximatdy 
11:30 . Pairs of students walked in the water, throwing bottles, cans, old tires, pieces of metal, and large branches that had fallen into the lake onto the shore. Once on shore, the debris was picked up by. the remaining students and put tnto large plastic bags. 
Over 60 bags of garbage were accumulated during the J!lOrn­ing, and were Immediately picked up by the Maintenance Department. "The Mainten­ance Department told us that we saved them about $400 by doing it," Henderson said. 
The only reward that the participants received was a party on Green Field Saturday night.
This type of communi_t)' ser­vice prol·ect typifies an effort .by the hal to become more m­volved in p[oj~cts other ~han just the usual tnps and I?arttes. In the past semester and a half, the hall has donated money, time and effort to projects such as Birthline, a non-profit gr~ue founded to help unmarned women who are op~~ed to abortion, raise their babtes and support them. 
Another project that the hall has undertaken is to support local, needy families in the holiday seasons. The hall sponsore.J four families in the Christmas season, donating presents and Christmas dinners to the families. During Easter, the hall made baskets for the children of seven families in addition to donating hams for Easter Dinner. 
Despite these activities, the hall has yet to win the Rockne award, which is given each month to the hall that "does the most." ''I'd like to win it, but as long as we keep providing activities for the dorm to get involved in--that's the whole purpos~,'' Henderson con­cluJt: 1 
Gehann to perform concert 
Hor~1 Gehann, choir 
condue1or .md organ teacher at 
Seminar Manenhohe in 
Darmstadt, West Germany, will 
perform an organ concert ton­
night at 8 p.m. at Andrews 
University in Berrien Springs, 
MI 
'-' e N:. n received the official tid , ; merited artist'' while livin!; in Rumania1 where he spent most of his ltfe. He has been in concert throughout Eastern and Western Europe and has appeared with his choir on television programs in Bucharest. He is expecially known for his interpretation of Bach and Reger, and has published several compositions for organ and choir. 
Tomght's concert is {>art of Gehann's third transconunental tour of America. lt will be held in Pioneer Memorial Church on the campus of Andrews Univer­sity. Admission is $2.50. 

Uncertainty about insurance coverage m.ar ks Lam.m.ert cas~ 
by Tom Hay Lammert can file suit against carried comprehen. ·vc: insur­
the university in small claims 
ance coverage on ri-; car. 
It is still uncertain whether court. Lammert said, however, Lammert's auto insurd•1Ct: is 
or not Notte Dame senior Greg t~at such action was only a limited to liability covF. age,Lammert will be reimbursed by possibility. "We'll just have to and therefore does not p~ ~· for 
university insurance for dam­wait to see what, if anything, damage done to the car irself. age done to his car by uni­will be done," he remarked. "Compreh<:.!lsive covers van­
versity property while parked 

dalism, theft, and even acts of on campus. , In the event of a court case, God," said Reddy. "The Lammert's 1972 Dodge Dart Royal Globe would come to the insurance company will repay
Demon was struck by a falling defense of the university. 
you for damage done to yourflagpole in the Stepan Center Reddy said that the whole 
car. It's the cheapest part of parking lot at about 10 pm on matter could have been handled your insurance policy," he add­April '). Heavy winds are easily if only Lammert had ed. 
believed to have caused the pole to break off and topple 
over. 
The flagpole crushed in the 

College Republicans elect roofof the car and shattered the windshield, although leaving it intact, according to Lammert. .Baan as '79-80 chairman He said that damage was estimated to be between one Andy Baan was elected ] ulin as Editor of Perspective,and two thousand dollars by Chairman of The Notre Dame the Republican newsletter. rwo area garages. One mech­College Republicans at thc-jr In other business, outgoinganic told him the car"wasn't Annual Meeting and Elections Chairman William ] . Kerr worth repairing.'' Lammert on Wednesday evening. Baan, announced the presentation of said the vehicle is ''driveable, a junior, served as Coordinator four Chairman's Awards for but dangerous.'' of the '78 Campaign. "outstanding contributions to 
Charles Reddy, the insurance Dave Walker, a junior the Notre Dame Colle~e officer for Notre Dame, claims transfer student and former Republicans and the semor that the incident is not covered Chairman of the Lake County Republican Party.''
by the university's policy. (Ill.) Cr 1;~.; ~ Republicans, was Recipients were; Kevin ''This is an act of God,'' said elected Vtt:e·chatrman. Marc Richardson, a senior, who has Reddy. "There is no legal Hab.·c ma ~~ sophomore, was serv~d as State Collegeliability involved.'' electel , secretary and Lynda ~~ 1blican 'chatrman, '":luh Reddy said that the insurance Wiesslt · :reshman, was chatrman and Clul) vice­company, Royal Globe insur­elected treasurer for the 1979-chairman; Carey Ewing, a ance of Fort Wayne, IN, is 1980 academic year. senior; Mark Dominic, aS( nior; 
responsible to pay anything due Baan then announced the and Andy Baan, the new to university negligence, which appointment of junior Paul chairman. 
does not apply to Lammert's case. "If we are responsible, we'll pay for it," he said. 

appt1cat1ons aR€ B€1nq acC€pt€b
Iromcallv enough, the man who must ultimately decide 

~on th€ pos1t1ons o~
how to handle the ''act of God'' is Mr. James Christ of the Fort Wayne office. Mr. Christ 

hpc S€CR€taRy anb
echoed Reddy's feelings that the accident was an ''unpre­ventable act," and that "there 

€X€CUtiV€ COOROtnatOR was no negligence on the part of the university." He is 
apply at th€ StUb€nt GOV€Rnm€nt orrtc€S OR sending a representative from 
call €ll€Tl 0oRney at 69'2'2 BY W€b(\DR1l '25th
Fort Wayne tomorrow to dis­cuss the matter with Lammert, however. 

Lammert voiced concern that HAVEYOURVVEDDING the c.W..im might be stalled until 
LOVE STORY 
after he graduates, but Reddy 

CREATIVELY TOLD 
insisted "these things are taken care of promptly. They'll 

FAMILY PORTRAITS 
probably tell him Tuesday what t~e i~surance company. de­IN THE HOME ctdes. , 
If the insurance company 

INSTANT PASSPORTS & 
chooses not to pay the claim, 

APPLICATION PHOTOS 
PHOTO COPY AND
ACADEMY AWARD 

'2301 m•am• RESTORATION
I
WINNER 

232-9963 
SOUTH BEND, IN CHILDREN ANIMALS 
The Student Union 
, ·. 

Social Commission
' 
:t 
~~~.II., 
1,' '."q( @ 

will be holding an otganlzatlonal
\1\\ \... 
Simone 

meeting Tuesday, Aptil 24 
Signoret
in 

at 7:30 in ~he Student Union Lobby.
MADAME 
ROSA 
sponsored by the Student Union Cultural Arts Commission 

Anyone Interested 
Is Invited to attend.
Engineering Auditorium 
t~~ii 




.............. :.. 

Editorials 

Poor New Jersey 
-art buchwald 

WASHINGTON--Almost evt:rbody (well, maybe you're allowed to budd gambling casinos, you 53 percent of everybody) wants nuclear energy, should be willing to put with a little fallout.'' but nobody wants nuclear waste dumped in hts 1 'I hadn't thought of that. But let us suppose own back yard. Just last week South Carolina New Jersey says no to accepting any nuclear refu~ed to accept the waste from the Harrisburg waste, and even passes a law that anyone Three Mile Island Plant. Gov. Hugh Carey oT dumping it ~?!lid oe fined $100. What would New York, who originally agreed that his state you do then? would take nuclear sludge, lias now changed his "They wouldn't dare! New Jersey needs New mind. And so it goes. York. Why do you think they've let us dump our 
When I gueried people about where the stuff garbage there for so many years? Don't get me should be dumped, the consensus of opinion was wrong. I have nothing against the _people who 
live tfiere, but we have to be practicaf about this. 

New Jers~y.
''Why New Jersey?'' I asked a New Yorker. If states like South Carolina are balking about accepting nuclear sludge, the only place left is
"Because :N"ew Yorkers always dump every­across die Hudson River. " 
thing in New Jersey. We've been doing it for 
I found that Pennsylvanians felt the same wayye~Ts.ras " h 1s. one th'mg, " I sat'd, "but nucIear about it as New Yorkers. A man from Philadelphia said, "We've-<;uf'ered enough in
waste is another. I Clon't think it's nice for this state. You can't expect us to livewitli thispeople who live in New Jersey to have all that contaminated material forever·.' ' ' nuclear matter piled on their shores." 
"Where do you want it to go?"

"How would they know?" the New Yorker "What's wrong with Trenton?" 
said. ''They never go through thei~ trash to see· "But that's the capital of New ] ersey!"
what's been dumped there. We built them the protested.
Lincoln Tunnel in exchange for letting us throw • All right, then Princeton. They were one ofanything we wanted into their marshlands. New I the first to come up with the idea .of nuclearJersey owes it to us." 
energy. Let them figure out what to do with the "All you say may be true, but I know people 

waste.''

who live in New Jersey, and they're adamant 
"That may be true," I said, "but don't youabout not wanting other states to put nuclear think each state should be responsible for itsrefuse on their juiik_piles." . . 

own sludge?"

"So we don't tell them," he replied. "We'll . "Not as long as there is New Jersey."
throw it out the windows of the "Metroliner at In Washington I called the Nuclear Regulatory night when no one is looking. " Com.mission to ask if it would permit New Jersey.
"It seems so unfair to the Garden State," I said. 
to become a dumping grouna for the other .49

"What's unfair? They have legalized states' nuclear garbage. 
gambling in Atlantic City, haven't they? There "Only temporarily until we can fmd a saferhas to be a trade-off for that." 
graveyard for it.''

"I don't follow your line of thinking." 
"But isn't it dangerous?" 

"Las Vegas has legalized gambling, and the ''Not if you put the nuclear waste in Glad 
price they have to pay for that is to put up with Bags. They last forever." atomic tests right outside the city limits. If [c) 1979; Los Angeles Tt'mes Syndicate 
!.ADIES AND 66N'TlS1/iN, 
7HANK YaJ 
CHI/NNE/. 7W'S ~II£U GOV/JRNOR, Ne
ON BeHAlF OF 7HE CA/.1­
~MUCH. 
7l'J}C/( 8!!a<e JU5THA'Ie YOU PI.AN/11/NG ON
FO!lNIA INSTITIITE FOR.. 
II~ AU~ 
IXJA/N, Gt'JVCR)J-70 RJ4IT, ANNaJNCIN6 ~
"!He M&UJIAJ, I'M PPIJ(Jf) 
~ 
O~.THEY'iJ.. Be THEN. C4NO/OACY FOR
70 PRESENT 01/R OWN 
~YeT? 
ALJTTI..E we. THe P/?J:51PENCY
. ....-GOVEIW7R JERRY 
/ / 
~ 70/JAY?
BI?QUN/ 

----l 
Monday, April 23, 1979 -page 6 
Third World: Struggle ofa people 
Editor-'s Note: Charlie Kenney is presently in Lima, Peru as part ofthe Notre Dame LAPEL [Latin American Program for Experiential Learning] pro­gram. Repnnted below is a letter from Charlie to a friend here at Notre Dame. 
.. .I find the reality so sad, so harsh at times. One finds here among the middle class--which in Peru is a minority --so little willingness to change, and on the contrary a readiness to struggle and fi~ht hard to maintain their pnvileges. The conflict between the classes is what some of those "commun­ist'' priests talk about, while the good priests talk about peace and love to the owners of the factories, the masters of the mines, those who live in ~pu­lence at the expense and suffer­ing of others; they preach a peace without its necessary foundation of justice, an empty superficial love that has lost all of the biblical meaning that one finds expressed in John: an effective love, based in practice not pretty words On. 4:20-21): 

I once thought that the middle class of Peru was very different from the middle class in the U.S., in that the poor are very evident in Peru, while Americans never see those who have suffered and who have been exploited in countries far away in order to make our advanced development poss­ible. I thought it very reason­able that we were only ''uncon­sciously oppressive.'' There is some truth to that, but I have come to realize something very important: we are unconscious of our exploitation of others only becal1se we have eyes that do not see, ears that do not hear. The blight of misery j; there to be seen, and the voir~ of the blood of our brother~ that cries from the land is thert w be heard (Go 4:9-10). Who are the blacks of our nation if not exploited and oppressed people? And the Indians? The Migrant Workers? The Spanish speaking. people in the U.S., the poor whites of the rural south, the farmers and miners of Appalachia? Read our history to see what crimes have been committed against these 
peoples. And look at what we are doing (or not doing) now. 
Another very important reali­zation for me is that all of our beliefs, faiths, creeds, and alle­~iances are necessarily proven 10 the practice. Words mean nothing, or worse than nothing, if the practice is absent or contradicts their message. Our faith in God and Christ means nothing, or worse is a hypoc­risy, if our lives, our practice, are not in the service of our broth~rs, if we do not love our fellow human creatures. And the demands love makes are great indeed. The importance of the active and effective practice of love is nowhere as clear as it is in the life-teach­ings of Jesus. All of his words and his works are for us lessons of life. And when he talks of the final judgment, it is not the adorations one has made or the penance one has served to which he refers, but the prac­tice one has lived. 
I know that I am preaching and probably seem terribly self-righteous as I take advan­tage of your good will to read these words. I don't know if I am expressing myself clearly or not, but if you feel comfortable or satisfied with your faith after reading this you haven't under­stood me well. Because the Christian faith is very disquiet­ing; it both attacks the very foundation of the political and socio-economic structures of our society, and challenges our actions and the way we live our lives--our praxis. It is neither easy, nor comfortable because it challenges our very being. But it is ultimately the source of joy and profound hope in our 

1lives. 
... These are not complete thoughts, fmished and packag­ed, but rather what has come to me right now, as a result of six months in Peru, studies of theology, and reflection. I am not a student of theology able to offer well-studied .critiques of the scriptures. What I am is a man who firmly believes in man and, unfortunately not so frrmly at times, believes in God. I find God in the hearts of the people; in the poor, the humble, the oppressed, in those for whom every day is a heroic struggle and a profound celebration. I find God in the sick, in the prisoners, in the alcoholics, in the children, the mothers, the f·ture. Catechism tells us that God i'5 in all parts, but we must 
a~k ourselves, is God in hearts of those who kill, of those who 
NO. fM601N6 
make slaves--legal or de facto-­
If/eAR)O(J,
70 8E Clt&A77N6 
of their human beings, of those 
(X}(JIJ) a/5GET 
A f1:JNTEXTFOR 
who oppress? What God could
A5H:!TOFfT
MY C4NIJIQ4CY. 
IUfffN )Q/R6 
it be? 
/ FINJ51B)? 
The proof of the faith is in the 
.............. 
practice. And it follows that the negaton of God--atheism--isn't so much a question of words as it is of acts. Those who truly deny God are those who prac­tice injustice aga!nst his people, those who act for justice affrrm God, even though it might be 
unintended ... 
Charlie Kenney 
administration of either institution. 

Editorial Board 
_The Observer_ The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Features Editor ....... Chris Stewart represent the opinwn of a majority of Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian 
Box Q Nojre Dame,/N 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales 'opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ...... K. Connel!y 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewis Business Manager ..... Steve Odland newspaper published by students of able to all members of the community, News Editor ............ Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan the Umversity of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News Editor .......... .Mike Shields Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is Saint Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ..... .Bob Rudy necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Sports Editor ...........Mark Perry Controller ........... John Tucker 
--------" 

-~'~-----'~' _, 
...... .. 

Features 
Monday, April 23, 1979 -page 1 
Billy Joel: Power at the Piano 
Sing us a song, you're the Piano 
Man 
Sing us a song tonight 
Well, we're all in the mood for a 
melody 
And you've got us feeling alright 
Billy Joel wrote this P!lrticular ~ong after his experience playmg at a ptano bar in Los Angeles in the early 1970's. It became the song that people identify with Joel, and helped l.aunch a career which has blossomed m the last two years. 
But "Piano Man" was not the only positive that ) oel gained f~om these early years. Perhaps !Dore tmportant­ly, he learned somethmg about pleas­ing an audience, and that expenence was presented onstage at ~he ACC Friday night. From the open~ng ,notes of ''The Stranger'' at the begmn~n~ to his tender rendition of "Souvemr' to close, Joel helped a near-cap!lci~~ crowd "forget about life ~or a whtle.. 
Pointing out the highltghts of thts show is extremely difficult, because there were no real low points. Even Joel's weaker songs seemed so much stronger with the great system, superb band, and vocal crowd that Billy had to work with. 
Much of the credit for the success of this concert, and Joel's recent albums, has to go to his band. The piano was the focal point tor nearly all the music, 
but Joel, a former boxer, knows that 
every great right needs a good left 
lead, and his band provided a solid 
set-up for his knockout punch. 
The guitar section, featuring David 
Brown and Russell ) avors on electric 
and acoustic guttars and Doug 
Stegmeyer on bass, stayed out of the 
limelight for the most part, but 
provided some solid backing for Joel's 
keyboard wizardry. 
The other members of the band, Richie Cannata and Liberty DeVitto, added much to the excitement of the evening. Cannata provided some excellent horn work (although his sax solo on "New York State ofMind" was drawn out and rather meaningless), and DeVitto's inspired drumming added power to even some of the slower ballads (''Honesty'' for exam­ple). 
The combination of this fine band with the superb showmanship of Joel helped to present an exciting concert. All the songs that wete played seemed to go a little bit beyond their recorded version, adding a little more power to everything they presented. . 
Joel and the band were at their best on the upbeat songs, although ballads like "),ust the Way You Are," "Piano Man, ' and ''New York State of Mind,'' were also performed with a lot of feeling. 

. ''The Stranger'' provided the per­
! feet kickoff for the concert, as ) oel emerged at the top of the stage wtth a single spot, settin.g up 3: nightclub type atmosphere, ag~m swmgmg back. to his days at the ptano bars. He earned this image throughout the concert, playfully doodling on the _{Jiano be­tween songs, and even domg some fine imitations of Paul McCartney and Paul Simon before announcing "we're not going to play that song." 
Moments like this helped keep the crowd at ease, and interestingly provided the set-up for most of the strongest (and the most popular) cuts of the evening. 
"My Life" was the first song that really got the crowd hopping, and Joel responded with an enthusiastic vocal, adding some feeling to the lyrics that one doesn't get when you hear it on the radio. When he told you to ''Go ahead with your own life, leave me alone," you got the feeling that he really meant it. 
Another strong song was "Stiletto," which)oel a~noun.ced.~s "a love song, if you re a ltttle stck. A few. of the roadies added toughness to thts tune with some mean handclapping in the backround. 
Joel really appealed to the crowd on "Big Shot," dedicated to "anybody who woke up with a really bad hangover.'' It was one of the few 
Mark Perry 
times he managed to venture away from the /iano, strutting across the 
stage  an  pointing  fingers  at  the  
college crowd,  who  could  obvio usly  
relate to this song.  

But the piano man was at his best on two of his encores. "Scenes from an Italian Restaurant'' was presented like a story, as Joel faced the crowd and told about two of his friends who couldn't make it work. And clearly the most popular song of the night was "Only the Good Die Young," as Joel tried to appeal to some of the Catholic girls in the audience by singing what has to be the anthem for many of the sex-starved men on this campus. 
Most of the crowd refused to leave at this point and were provided with a moving finish to a superb evening. As Joel came out alone, sitting at the piano with a single overhead spot, the smoke from the crowd drifting over his head, and delivering a rendition of "Souvenir," one's mind could drift back to the days back in Los Angeles playing for "bread in my jar," and realize what the life of the entertainer is like. And when Billy reminded you, "Don't take any s--t from anybody," you realizedthat he certainly didn't give 
you any. 

The Ghost of Washington Hall 
This is the first part of a series. 
Ed. note: Recurring legends about van'o11s mysterio11s disturbances .in Washington Hall have been f/yznt5 around Notre Dame for over hatf a r,entury. Perhaps the most conven­tional explanation f,or the "g_~ost" ~as been the "Gipper s Ghost verszon, which connects the spirit with All­.1mencan George Gipp, who in 1920 supposed/y-;lept on the Hall's ~teps the 1Jff>''t !J, 'fo~re· contractzng. hzs f~~al illness. Other 11nexplazned sptnts have been attributed either to Brother Cajetan, whose unmelodious peck horn playing was said to haunt the Hall or to a steeplejack, who in 1886 fell 'from a lofty Hall cons.truction perch to his death. But bt;szdes the traditional reports ofgallopzng horses and unexplained moanings, there are even c11rrent witnesses and explana­tions of Washington Hall spooks. 
In truth, however, the first pu~­lished mention ofany ghost appears zn the 1921 Dome, where references are made to a ghost becomzng ''a most talked about thing on campus.'' The Dome goes on to sa~,. however! that the stories and the spmtual manzfesta­tions themselves were only inventions of bored Washingtonites, that the complete story of the ghost phenom­enon could not be told because two 1920 reszdents, Dan Carr and Clarence "Pat" Manion, "never told us how they dzd it. '' 
Manion, who later became Dean of Notre Dame's law school and a polihcal broadcaster for the ''Manion Forum," is presently, in fact, among the last surviving eyewitnesses to the episode. An October 23, 1977 Sou~h Bend Tribune article by Charles Davts, which claims that a 1920-21 ghost was a hoax (actuall'l just sounds from a horn Davis htmself sounded], has prompted Manion to come forward to refute this and other versto~s, to set tbe record straight with his own recollection. 
On March 30, 1978 Manion told his story to Philip Hicks, a Notre Dame junior. The resul#ng hours ofconver­sa#on were transcirbed, filed in the Notre Dame Archives' oral history collection, and edited for thefollowing story. 
There's so much confusion and misstatement about the ''Ghost of Washington Hall," that we need to put the things down like they truly happened. If this episode is one of the greatest things that ever happened at Notre Dame, and if people want to talk about it, they at least should tell the truth about it. I am about the last person in a position to tell this story, so I have been prevailed upon to describe the true and unforgetable occurrences at Washington Hall 58 years ago. 
I think one of the things that we should do to exclude the hearsay of our friend Davis' recollection, and the rest is to outline the geography of the place and to identify the characters, the witnesses by name. Now I myself came to Notre Dame as a law student in September of 1919 and was as­signed to a room in Washington Hall. Before this time no one had ever had any association with any kind of an occult thing with reference to the Hall. Eight other people and I (what we called the ''scrub faculty'') lived there, while both teaching and studying. There were no undergraduate stu­dents. We had no prefect. All of us, looking out of our doors, looked out towards the band room, east. The band room was just about twice as big as our rooms were, which were of the aisle type. 
So then, first there was Jose Corona, who had been at Notre Dame for a number of years teaching Spanish. l:le had come from a very wealt~y famt~y and his brother was a btsh?P ~n Mexico. But they had a revolutton m Mexico and Jose's brother was de­frocked. So Jose was marooned at Notre Dame. When I. came,. he occupied the corner room tn Washmg­ton Hall on the third floor. 

And next to Corona they put two fellows, Dan Carr, a graduate student in Chemistry, and Jrmmy Bell, who was teaching penmanship in the "Minims" (or the "Minimums" as we used to call them). He and Carr were assigned to this room with a ~ouble deck bed, but they were very mcom­patible. 
Corona first, Carr and Bell next, then came yours truly, Clarence Manion, teaching "Politics" and American History. And for some reason I had _a single room, as ~id Corona. Then right on the other stde of me was a man bv the name ofJohn Buckley, who, as I, was taking law while teaching something around the University. And John was alone, with a double decker which was never occupied. Then next to Buckley, at the top of the : stairway•, there was a chap by the name ot ) 1mmy Hayes, one of the key people in this whole episode, a charming young guy. And right across from Hayes, catty-corner, was Johnny Mangan, who later became the Uni­versity chauffeur. At this time he was not a well-known figure at all, just a good Irishma~1 who would come up and down the statrs, go back and help the Sisters in the laundry, and bring the gossip back and forth. This was all the third floor. 
A Brother Mauritius, however, was on the second floor, at the beginning of the stairs. On the other corner of that floor was ] oe Casasanta, the musical director and later band director, who with his brother-in-taw composed the most beautiful thing, ''Notre Dame Our Mother.'' But then Joe was just a boy playing the guitar. 
Well, we were all living very happily 
1 over there. The band used to come and practice from five to six at night anfl blow the roof off and everybody got t~e hell out. Then things would qutet down afterwards and we'd work. Buckley was close to me and we used to have coffee klatches Buckley and I were usually the last people to bed. 
Well one ni~ht I was sittintz verv quietly, thumbmg through my lectures for the next day. It was midnight. And all of a sudden the hom blew. The sound reverberated from the band room a perfect B-flat .1ote that would he hl~wn on a coronet. We tested it :afterwards, and it was always the same, always clear, always ·· pene­trating, and it could be heard anr­where in the Hall. Well, I heard thts thing this night and I thought, "My God there must be someone out there fooli~g around with the horns , " be­cause the band room was there where they stacked the horns. Anyhow, I threw open my door and there was no sound and I suddenly thought that I was imagining things .. 
The next night at about the same time the horn blew again! This time I heard Buckley's door open and then I opened my door and I said, "John, did you hear that horn?" He said., "Yes, I heard the same thing last ni~ht, too! What is it? Who would do thts?" We naturally assumed that Casasanta, who was a horn blower, was somehow connecte.d with this. So the next morning Casasanta said that he was really surprised to hear about it, that he had not been responsible. "Oh, we heard nothing." Well, during the succeeding weeks Buckley, Casasanta, and I assumed that this was some sort of an eccentric thing going through the window, or whatever. But the tact that they would do it at that time of the night was surprising. 
So Buckley and I had heard it more or less simultaneously. We'd go to the "scrub faculty" table in the main building and we began to talk about the horn. rlut every other person immediately laughed, "I didn't hear it! Wily didn't I hear it?" Corona was a scoffer at the start and Dan Carr thought we were all drinking too much coffee. 
To be conh'nued. 

I 

. . . Businesses 

[continued from page 3] 
When asked about competi­tion from a Student Union record store, Moran comment­ed, "Records· aren't a big mar­gin item, but there are people on campus who want records. Records are a convenience item, like health and beauty aids." 
The Huddle is another Uni­versity-run business that is· highly visible to students, es­peciallywtth the recent renova­tions. 
According to Huddle Mana­gerJim Thalecker, the new Deli has been a success. "The Deli is now a major source of revenue for us,"· Thalecker stated. 
The new pizza sales have not done as well, but Thalecker claimed that was because they 

have not really been merchan­downstairs instead of cutting
dised yet. across the quad," Thalecker 
Thalecker expressed some said. 
concern about competition from The current system of Uni­
Hall Food Sales. "The fact that versity-run businesses has both 
there is Food Sales hurts, no its strengths and its weak­
doubt. I wouldn't mind getting nesses. Although it brings in a 
a percentage of those sales," great deal of revenue, it is 
Thalecker stated. frequently not beneficial to the 
Thalecker was also worried students. This system should about expansion of food sales. be more closely examined so ''If they expanded, it would that its defects might be hurt if they get the same item repaired. 
Historical Society to meet tonight in 0 'Shaughnessy 
There will be an organi­O'Shaughnessy. New officers zational meeting of the Notre will be elected and next year's activities will be discussed. All "Dame Historical Society tonight members are encouraged to 
at 7 in room 104 of attend. · 
• 
ATTENTION ALL SOPHOMORES 
monbay,

Sophomores may start placing ring orders 
~Ril 23 

Hours: 9:00am to 4:30pm Mon.-Fri. 
in office on second floor of 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

.·•. ....... 
·.:.... 
.... 
.. . ­
:. .. .. 
. .... 
(Any morning, Monday through Friday 6,:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.) 

Nobody makes better breakfasts than Golden Bear and, nobody gives 
you more for your money. Nobody. 
1. EGGS 
·Two Grade A, 
extra large eggs 
served with hash 
browns. buttered 
toast, and jelly. 
2. FRENCH TOAST  3. WAFFLES  
Four half slices served with two strips of bacon or two porkies.  One waffle served with two sttips of bacon or two porkies.  

(Offer ends April 30, 1979) 
4. PANCAKES 
Three pancakes served with two strips of bacon or two porkies. 

•52~20 U.S. 31 North-South Bend •6111 CrawfordviUe Road-South Bend 
•921 West Mc:Kialey-Mishawab 


THE 
GREAT 
ESCAPE. 
You dream about it at night... the day you can close your books, get out of this place and forget about studying for awhile. 
Well, the Great Escape is here ... this weekend, with Greyhound. Escape to the country or go see some friends. Just decide whiGh escape route you want and we'll do the rest. 
We'll get you out of town and away from the books so you can clear your head. It doesn't cost much and ifll do you a world of good. 
So make the Great Escape this weekend ... with Greyhound. 
To One-Way Round-liip Depart Anive 
Chicago $8.55 $16.25 10:20 a.m. 11:15 p.m. Milwaukee $14.30 $27.20 10:20 a.m. 11:15 p.m. Cleval1nd $23.30 $44.30 9:50a.m. 4:35p.m. St. Louis $25.115 $47.60 1:50 p.m. 10:20 p.m. Detroit $18.15 $34.50 7:110 p.m. 12:45 p.m. 
(Prices subject to change.) 
210W.monroe 287-6541 
•z ----~. 
GO GREYIIOIIIJ 



T 

The Observer Monday, April 23, 1979 -page 9 
Benefiting MD 

24 Hour Dance Marathon Ends 

by Tom Ahearne 
Over 70 tired and aching feet finally made their way to soothing pans of warm water and log-awaited beds yesterday as approximately 3 5 students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and area high schools concluded dancing in the Muscular Dystrophy Dance Marathon held in Stepan Center. 

The marathon, which is one of ovet 300 held each year to benefit Muscular Dystrophy, raised over $1200. 
The music for the 24 h0urs of dancing 1-etween 110 a.m. 
. Tanzanians 
[continued from page 1] 

assault with two 30-minute barages. Rockets knocked out a 106mm ami-tank gun manned by Amin's soldiers at the western end of the Nile River bridge. 
Several thousand Tanzanian and anti-Amin Ugandan soldiers then marched in columns into the city. All of Amin's soldiers had fled, witnesses said, except for a few who were captured. 
Saturday and 10 a.m. Sunday was donated by five~ bands: key Hot,. Survivors, Wizards, Revolver and Ry~d. 
· Meals for the 'dancers were donated by McDonald's, Pizza Hut and a local donut shop. In addition, area businesses donated over 120 individual prizes for contestants which were given away in hourly raffles and scattered contests throughout the 24 hours. Prizes were also awarded to ·l,e dancers who raised the most money and to the best dancing couple. Additionally, a trophy was awarded to Elkhart Memorial High School for raising the most money. Notre Dame's Angel Flight, which annually collects money for Muscular Dystrophy, in cooperation with Circle K and area DECA clubs, sponsored the marathon. 

I' I
-I I 
·~,., 
;I;! 
It. 'I I \ 
t'.' 
~
;t 
'i "!,;. 
t~ ''\ "!! ;.o<'lj• \ 
! 
~.:
.. 
question be· 
w''

eo<reei'V answer ~~~e 58rvinll ~\ ~ 
I and "''"-a toO<! l""cllase
G:ca. Cola ""If'\ a ­
51 _ooorrno<8 · blealparttO·
cards~leCI ~ one

Wi~!:!.~astauran\S_;.,~11 \he answer 
pao•... and seraI"'· ...,.1V•IIN­
answer "Ai....,t" appears. •-­circle " .... fKI 
_._..""""\nll\81\ name
l .....'f--G__.., 

"Coca-Cola" and "Coke" are registered trade-marks which 1dent1!y the same product ol The Coca-Cola CompanY. 
If you answer the questioncorrectly, you win a largeserving of Coca-Cola with 

a food purchase·of $1.00 or more. 
No purchase necessary to obtainnpQp" Quiz card. nPOP"Quizcardsavailableat THE HUDDLE 



Monday, April 23, 1979 -page 10 
[continued from page 12] out there, no matter what the a hot sun and a number of cold staked to a 2-0 lead, both runs 
• • • 3 of 4 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli 




the bookstore & the CCUM office-11th 



Proceedings o the LATIN AMERICAN l31St-OP5' CONFERENCE, Puebla,/Vexico 
100 pages of the final document translated during the last days of the meeting . . . . . 
Chapters on: VISION OF THE CHURCH • FAMILY • CHRIST, THE CENTER OF HISTORY • HUMAN DIGNITY • LIBERATION AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT • IDEOLOGIES AND POLITICS • EVANGELIZATION • PREFERENTIAL 

OPTION FOR THE POOR • BASIC COMMUNITIES, PARISH, LOCAL CHURCH • 
LAITY • CHURCH'S ACTIONS AMONG BUILDERS OF A PLURALISTIC SOCIETY • INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY • PASTORAL OPTIONS • 
Cost: $3 
Special bonus offer! Free s250 bottle Samson &Delilah Shampoo with styled haircut.~~<-n s12 -'\o 
\\'omen S1'l. 00 
R9GIS HAIRSTYLISTS 
University Park Mall 
North End 
handcuffed the powerful Flyers on just two safeties until his teammates had compiled a lead they would not relinquish. _ 
Kot, who squared his sea­son's mark at 2-2, said he threw "a combination slider and curve'' as he struck out five and kept Dayton's big guns off balance all day. "I was getting my curve ball up in the begin­ning, and I didn't really have my good fastball, so I had to rely primarily on the slurve.'' A pleased Kelly commented afterwards, ''Greg has all the tools to be a fine major college pitcher. He's always in control situation.'' 
Mark Simendinger's two-run single in the sixth was the big Irish blow, plating Henry Valenzuela, who had singled, and Jim Montagano, who reached on an error. Valen­zuela, the personable Cuban first sacker, had four hits on the day, while Rick Pullano chipped in with three singles. And, Tim Handrich continued to -provide Kelly with stellar relief work as he entered a prickly situation in the last inning of the nightcap and slammed the door on the Flyers. By the time Handrich entered the fray, the Dayton crowd was feeling the effects of ones, and a couple of overebul· lient supporters attempted to drench rightfielder Dave Bar~ tish with a bucket of ice water. Bartish, whose parents had traveled from Cmcinnati to watch the games, had the last laugh as the two ruffians spilled the water before they got to him and Handrich notched the final out. 

The opener Friday was a taut struggle won by Notre Dame in extra innings, 3-2. Bob Bart­lett, enjoyed his finest outing thus far, stifling his rivals on just five hits and retiring eleven on strikeouts. The sophomore from Shaker Heights, Ohio, was 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 33 Possessive 59 UFO crea­1 Bombast 34 letters for ture 4 Potato a coroner 60 Placefor 
State 35 Delivera grain 
9 Church part sad message 61 Optimistic 13 Yalemen 39 Tree 62 Wheels, in 15 Musical 40 Zodiac sign England 
instrument 41 Robt.-63 Atthis 16 Speak 42 Nautical time 
poorly chain 17 Misspoke 43 Musical DOWN 20 NewYork sign 1 Obtain 
feature 44 Certain 2 Tsk, tskl 21 Is defeated beams 3 Glossy 22 Notloco 46 Enumerate fabric 23 Shadowbox 47 Joust 4 First aid 25 Hidden 48 Gloss item 28 Meager 51 Near grad­5 Idler 29 Circle part uates 6 Malarial 32 Sonora 54 Own up fever 
Indian 58 Thanks -I 7 Danceor 
trick 8 Yoko­9 Noted mer­
chant of 
old 10 And · 11 Positive 12 Fish-eating 
birds 14 Square­
rigger item 18 Dash 19 Burned 
bright 23 Uncouth ones 24 Leaning 

4/20/79 Tower town 

OILER.PAPA  E  S TLLA  
~ A~-~-~ 0 F A CIE IS ERA PETE.C  S AS IA A R INO  
.... H E s•T A  L E  N T S A N-1 
G A s p EIS A R. A B 0 U T SITIR A F 0 U L. HIA T­F U L L H 0 U S E..  I G E C R  HITISII I RIEJI E EIPJI  
M 0 U T H..C  ~~ ..I ~~w U S H  
p E  D A  NT S-F A  
AT  0 N  E o•o E L  
B A  N C  ROYAL  F l  
l I  N A  ..  W E  R.  E E  R I E  
0 N  E R  E •w  E D  s•  R 0  A S T  

C LA H P.S L' "i" 

© 1979 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. 4/23/79 All Rights Reserved 
tallied by Pullano on a sacrifice by Montagano and a ground out by Mike Jamieson. Huntington scratched across a couple of late inning runs to knot it at 2-2. In the eighth, Banish forced Jamieson, who had singled, and promptly pilfered second. Valenzuela, who swung a torrid stick the entire weekend, laced his second single of the game to score Bartish, and, Bartlett, scenting that first victory, dis-· posed of Huntington quickly in; 
their last turn at bat. 
Senior Mark Ladd dido' t have it as hard in th~ nightcap, getting five runs in the second, and he went Bartlett one better · by giving up five hits and a . solitary run. The big inning began when Jim Montagano reached on-an error. Valen­zuela laid down a sacrifice, and Voellinger lined a sharp single to left. Tom Caruso, Greg Rodems, Pullano and Jamieson all singled off a pair of be­leaguered Huntington hurlers. Ladd was able to coast the rest of rh-.· way, but he lost his 
shutout on  an  unearned  run  in  
[he fmal stanz a.  
Today,  the  Irish  travel  to  

Bowling Green for a double­header with the hard-hitting Falcons. Then, they'll take part in the gaiety of An Tostal until a double-dip at home Saturday against Cmcinnati, followed by two Sunday vs. Xavier. 
25 ltemof 
value 26 Answer XI Arson, 
for one 
28 Musicor metal 29 Dancing sister 30 Regatta 
contestant 
31 Studies the territory 33 Card game 
like bridge 36 Ukeagull 'SJ Very, in 
Paris 38 Wisemen 44 Napery 45 Touched the 
ground 46 Baseballer 
Grove 47 laugh 48 Wound cover 49 Entire: 
comb. form 50 Son of Seth 51 Recipe 
word 52 Destroy 53WWII 
battle site 55 Calendar 
abbr. 56 like a fox '57 In what 
way 
......_. 

]'he Observer -Sports 
Irish tracksters capture medals at Kansas Relays 
Five members of the Notre Dame track team turned in solid performances last weekend, as the Irish pulled in two relay medals at the Kansas Relays Friday and Saturday in Lawrence, KN. 
The two-mile relay team of Chuck Aragon, Pete Burger, Jay Miranda and Jim Slattery were tryins to defend the championshtp that the Irish won last year, but a strong field left Notre Dame with a fourth place finish in this event. T~e Irish finished the event m 7:34.07, four seconds off the Notre Dame record that they set last year, and a little over four seconds behind Oklahoma, who won in 7:26.13. 
A pleasant surprise for the trip was the strong performance of the four-mile relay team of Aragon, Miranda, Berger, and Joe Strohman. This team. ran_ a solid 17:00. 1 , to take thtrd m this event. Bowling Green won in 16:48.1. 
Meanwhile, the rest of the Notre Dame team was compet­ing at the Illini qassic ~n Champaign, IL Detatls on thts meet and some comments on the Kansas Relays will be in tomorrow's Observer. 
• • • Umps 
[continued from page 12] 
the season have been atrocious. The players, managers, owners and fans are hoping and pray­ing that the regulars will soon return. So why haven't negoti­ations produced a compromise after almost two months? The fact is, there were no significant negotiations until this past Saturday when the two sides sat down to talk for the frrst time. 
The communication gap be­tween the two sides has resem­bled the Berlin Wall. No one seems to be able to get through to the people on the other side. They just keep yelling back and forth at each other like children. 
Tomorrow-Umpire's Action The Opinions 

Monday, April 23, 1979 -page 11 

Division I B-ball champs 

Howard defeats Morrissey 
Howard Hall caotured the Men's Interhall Basl(etball Div­ision I championship with a '51-48 overtime victory over Morrissey. The lead seesawed most of the way until Howard opened up a seven point lead midway in the third quarter. Rusty Lisch's outside shooting sparked a Morrissey rally which knotted the score at 29 after three quarters. 

The game continued to be a struggle throughout the fourth quarter, with both sides contin­ually scoring clutch baskets that enabled the game to be tied five times during the final sta~za, including the end of regulauon: 41-41. 
In the overtime period, Kevin Dix tallied six of his game high 20 points to lead Howard to an early advantage they never surrendered. 
Danny Short led one _more furious comeback by Mornssey, but they were never to regam the lead. . . 
For the vtctors, J tm Dole~al chipped in with 12 points, whtle the losers were paced by Lisch's 16 points and stro~g board play by Dennts Grindinger. 
-

. . 
.,. 


(. 
I 

Monday, April 23, 1')79 -page 12 
Chumps, Butchers play today 
Field narrows in bookstore play 
by Frank LaGrotta the day's best Bookstore game, His Combat· Wombats to a Sports Writer P.F. and The Flyers grabbed an 21-11 win over Col. Boggsovertime victory from Another Tuesday Nite Club. Holohan "It was a perfect day for' Face in the Crowd, 23-21. Paul also pulled in eight rebounds 
Bookstore Basketball,'' com­Flood led the winners with for the winners while Joe Carey
mented Leo Latz after the 1979 eight points on 21 attempts with had six for the Tuesday Nite tournament field narrowed to Lou Fagley chipping in seven Club. 64 teams. "The weather was and Mike Morris pulling down 
Bill Laimbeer's 11-for14

great, the games were exciting ten rebounds. Tim Koegel also shooting exhibition was enoughand the crowds were larger tallied seven for the losers. 
to lead Pope John Paul I...to a
than ever. " 
In other acti~n. Numnuts 21-9 win over IKEMUN. The
Latz, tournament commis­

upsettheNutmeggers, 21-14 as former Irish eager pulled down
sioner of this year's event, Richard Hughes led all scorers nine rebounds and teammate
which wraps up next Sunday 

with eight points. Jamie Halnin Kr_is Haines dropped in seven
behind the ACC, pointed out 

chipped in six while Tim Ardok pmnts to pace the winners while 
that while yesterday's competi­

contributed . eight to the lo~n · s Terry Barrett's four was the
tion was good, today' s should 

cause. The Nutmeggers were best total for the losers. 
be even better. 

the number three-seeded team 
"Absolutely," he stressed. in this year's tourney. Jim Stone's six points md ''Things get underway this Willie Moore's 10 rebounds afternoon at 4 p.m. with a full In the meantime, the top­paced TB Express II over W.H. slate of games at all court sites ranked Butchers had some trou­Jury, 21-9. Moor also had six 
until 6:30. As the field gets ble with Name Don't Matter, points while Rich Flaherty had but they managed to pull out a the same for the Jury. AI
smaller, the games get better." 

Featured games· this after­21-14 win. Bruce Flowers was Mattaliano pulled down 13 n::­noon include Chumps, featur­eight-of-11 for the Butchers bounds for the losers. with Jamie Gallagher's four
ing Tom Sudkamp and Rusty In other games, Team Canni­
points topping the losers box­
Lisch (Lyons 11 at ·6:30) and the bus relied on the nine-for-20 
score. Chumps, led by Rusty
811t:hers, whose roster lists shooting of Win Palmer to
Lisch's eight-for-10 shooting
Bruce Flowers, Kevin Hart and defeat Sid Viscious ... 21-15. 
performance, managed to dis­
D<ive Huffman (Boo~store 10 at Ray Weiss had nine points and 
pose of Jim Jones and the
6:30). Strappamasquon and 10 rebounds for the losers. Rod
Grateful Dead, 21-11. Tom
His Combat Wombats, with Linhares tallied six points and
McLaughlin hit six for Chumps
Pete Holohan an<l Greg grabbed nine caroms right next
while Jtm McFadden's five-of­
Kna!.k, will tip off at 6:30 door to pace Nite of the Living
six performance was tops for
behind the bookstore while Bill Dead to a 21-6 win over Laimbeer will lead Pope John Jim Jones. Wrecked-em. Mike Keily and Paul I into action in an earlier Pete Holohan and Greg Bill Ryan had five each for the game (Stepan 4 at 4:00). Knafelc combined for ten points Dead while Wreched-em relied 
In wh< -n af"l y described as to lead Strappamasquon and on a balanced boxscore. 
Near even record 

Irish win 3of 4 over weekend 
by Mike Henry Deasey, looking for his fifth everyone in the park anticipat­Sports Writer victory without a loss, carried a ing a squeeze play, the next 3-1lead vs. the Flyer~ t>ntering batter squared to bunt, but 
· Last weekend, Notre Dame's the final frame. But, as a Vuono's delivery sailed over baseball team r.eaded east for a raucous crowd of about 3,000 Voellinger's ahead as Dulka pair of twinbiil~. against tiny looked on happily, Deasey fal­danced across home with the Huntington (lnd.) College and a tered and loaded the sacks on game winner. strong Dayt< 1 club. After a back-to-back singles and a free It would have been easy for sweep of the Pilots Friday, pass. Coach Tom Kelly sum­the Irish to fold after such a strapping righthander Mike moned Marty Vuono from the disheartening defeat, as it kept 
bullpen, and, to the amazement them from surpassing the elu­of the Irish, he was called for a sive .500 barrier. Kelly gave balk as he peered in to get the freshman Greg Kot the second signal from Dan Voellinger. game assignment, and he ex­Kelly protested bitterly, but to perienced such discomfort in no avail, and after the brouhaha his elbow while warming up
Umpire action -the facts 
the tying run crossed on a that it was doubtful he could ground balL A shaken Vouno last more than an inning. But, then saw Dayton fill the bags displaying a mixture of headi­
With all that I've read and heard about the 
again in the eighth, on a double ness;-sharp control and a pitch
absence of the major league baseball umpires, 
by Bob Dulka, a walk, and a he described as a <>lurve," he
the whole picture became rather blurred to me. 
Michael 
neat bunt that Mike Chandler
I decided to make a few phone calls and find out [conllntJc•d .m page 10]
beat out fcir a base hit. With
exactly what's going on. I spoke with representatives of the Commissioner's office, Ortman both league offices, and Mr. Richie Phillips himself, attorney for the umpires. This is ihe first of a two-part series on the recent action agreement), mail them out, and the umps are taken by baseball's umpires. expected to sign and return them by March 1st. 
This year, however, things went a little 

Before we get tangled up in the mess which differently. The contracts were never returned. now exists in the major leagues, let's turn the The reason--"We just want more money!" clock back a few years, to 1977. That year, the Last August, you may remember, the umpires umpires as a group, worked out a collective staged a one-day walkout. It lasted only one day bargainin~ agreement with the league bosses. because a U.S. District Court ordered the umps 
Let's stdestep here for a moment. This back to work, citing them for breach of their collective bargaming agreement is very different individualcontracts for 1978. When they failed from a contract. Each umpire works under the to report to spring training this year, the leagues terms of his own individual contract. These once again took them to court, but this tim-e the contracts are for one or two years--no more. results were different. Since 50 of the 52· Their collective bargaining agreement is similar umpires were not under contracts (A.L. 's Ted to that of the players. It simply spells out the Hendry--didn't know the other's weren't sign­
1 

guidelines for mdividual contract negotiations. ing, and N.L.'s Paul Pryor--had a two-year That's all. package, being the exceptions) they could not be Now, back to 1977. The agreement which the forced back to work. Technically, none of them 
-
umpires signed that year is still in effect and (except Pryor and Hendry--who, by the way, · runs through 1981. Among other things, it set a have since quit their jobs) were employees of the. minimum salary level ($17, 500 per year for a American or National leagues. So really, the rookie), a $50 per diem. (which has since risen to umpires aren't on strike. "It's not a strike," $53. This is money given to the umpire each day asserts their attorney, Richard Phillips, "it's an to pay for a room, meals, etc.), first class air action.'' travel for each umpire, and, of course, annual This brings us to today. The fill-ins that have salary increases. been in the ballparks for the first three weeks of So every year the league offices draw up 
[contznued on page 11)

individual contracts for each (based on that 




