Danehy comments -page 7
' ' ' 

VOL. XV, NO. 125 / an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 

Chavez calls referendum chance for social justice 
by janet Rigaux salary had only increased by 13 cents per hour." According to Chavez, the lettuce industry 
Cesar Chavez, United Farmworkers Union management cannot understand why the (UFW) president, was welcomed with a stan_ding workers want to discuss wages. Its reaction to ovation in a half-filled Stepan Center last ntght. the migrant farmers after the contract expired At the outset of his talk, Chavez said Notre was, "The Mexicans don't know any better. Dame's Thursday referendum, is a. gn;at They're biting the hand that is feeding them,'' opportunity for members of the Umv_erstty Chavez stated. community "to place themselves on the stde of Because of the industry's unwillingness to social justtce throug~ a simple V?te." discuss wage increases, UFW is once again 
The referendum, tf passed, Wtll boycott foo? boycotting Iceberg lettuce. products of the Libby, Campbell and Mac~etl Chavez discussed the manner in which strikes companies in campus dining halls, vendmg and boycotts generally are conducted and also ll~<J.dlllll::, and the Huddle. explained the violent treatment that the mi­
Chavez said that he has been workin& for t~e grants receive. He reported that four migrants farmworkers' cause since the early 60 s. Hts have been killed since the UFW's formation. first objective was to organize the farmworkers The most recent incident was the Rufino 
into a union and have that union recognized. Contreras killing which occurred earlier this 
The experts gave Chavez a one out of 1000 year. · chance for succeeding in developing such a According to Chavez, all of the killings union. However, in 1969, Chavez proved the essentially have been murders. However, m 
experts wrong when the UFW threw a boycott each case, the people responsible for the deaths have been released. "The judge released the
against Gallo wine. . . 
Chavez referred to the Amencan pubhc as three men who killed Contreras because of lack 
"the court of last resort." The American public of evidence,~· Chavez noted. did not let Chavez down, as 11,000,000 The audience was quiet throughout most of individuals participated in the Gallo wine Chavez's talk. However, Chavez's comment 
boycott of the late 60's. that it is the migrant farmers who provide us 
Another successful boycott was levied against with the food for our ineals three times a day the lettuce industry in California. In 1976, the elicited applause. "The ironic part is that these Ur"'W signed a three-y~ar contract wit~ that people get food for .others, but they don't have industry. Chavez explamed that, accordmg to enough food for themselves," Chavez empha­the contract, the UFW would not boycott or sized. strike against the lettuce indus.try for those thn;e He told the audience that they could help the years. The contract expired m ) anuary of thts migrant farmers by boycotting United Brands' 
Chtquita bananas, Iceberg lettuce, and Libby,

year. . . 
"Our first objective, which was recogmtton, Campbell and MacNeil products. had been accomplished. However, problems "We also need financial and moral help and 

still pla1?ued the workers," Chavez stated, prayers. We believe strongly in prayers," he adding, 'In eight and a half years the workers' added. 
Carter urges C9ng_ress 
by Brian McFeeters 
to approve rattontngplan 
Farm Labor Organizing Com­
WASHINGTON (AP)-Pres­nationally broadcast news con­said. mittee President Baldemarident Carter, declanng that ference by saying it was The committee voted 22-20 Velasquez met with the Ohio· 
"we must be Jrepared for the "imperative" that the House last week to reject the rationing Farmworkers Support Commit­worst," urge Congress yes­Commerce Committee approve plan, but Rep. John D. Dingell, tee on campus after joiningterday to approve hts standby the rationing plan when it takes D-MI, chairman of the panel's nearly 50 farmworkers from plan for gasoline rationing to action today. "We must make energy subcommittee, told Ohio, Indiana and neighboring
help cope with shortages that certain that gasoline can be reporters there was "a very states at the talk by Cesar could start this summer. distributed promptly and fairly good chance" that vote would Chavez last night in StepanThe president began a in such an emergency,'' Carter be reversed today. Center. 
"We face the possibility of gasoline shortages even as Velasquez and a group of early as this summer,'' the students and farmworkers
lack ofhonesty committees 
president said. "Common walked across campus after the sense tells us we must be speech chanting, ''Boycott, yes."
ready.''

violates du lac policy 
Energy Secretary James R. 

Commenting on a letter sent toSchlesinger testified in the the committee by Campbell's,
by Kathleen Connelly Senate earlier yesterday that Velasquez said, "These can­
Senior Copy Editor only a "dire national emer­nery owners can't deny that thegency'' such as a blockade of oil prices they pay tomato growersUniversity Provost 0. Timothy O'Meara said yesterday that tanker routes from the Persian determine the wages paid toeach academic department of the University is required to have a Gulf to the West, would require tomato pickers. Yet they claimstanding departmental Honesty Committee. He agreed that any gasoline rationing. 
to have no responsibility to thedepartments not having standing committees are in direct Schlesinger rated the prob­farmworkers.
violaiton of du Lac honest policy; ''The departmental Honesty n ~ "':. ~ of rationing as .. veryCommittee ... should be a standing committee and must include 
low.'' ''The only hope in this is for 
student representation.'' . 
H.ationing, he said, "is a all three parties: the canneryDespite figures indicating that 13 of 28 departments are m stringent measure which is owners, the growers, and thevarying degrees of non-compli3:nce wit_h that re~ulation, O'Meara intended for use only in the farmworkers to sit down to­said that "the present system ts the nght one. 
most severe shortage sit­gether," he added.
He indicated that he would talk to the deans of the colleges who 
uation.'' 

will advise departments establish Honesty
their to standing Schlesinger testified before ''Support from the public -­
Committees with student representation by the first day of classes like a boycott at Notre Dame -­
the Senate Agribulture Com­next semester. mittee's rural develpment sub­is really the most important
The departments whic~ indicated that they did no~ have a part of our campaign. The
committee, some of whose

standing Honesty Committee or student representation were companies will respond to pub­
members expressed skepticism 

apparently unaware of, misinterpreted or chose to ignore duLac, would lic pressure," Velasquez said,
about whether farmers 

according to Student Body Prestdent Bill Roche. referring to this Thursday's
get enough _

''The way du Lac is worded now leaves room for several gasoline for their work referendum on the farmworkers interpretations," Roche said. "There is no reason duLac can't be ISSUe.
under the rationing plan. 

clarified so that in the future the wording won't be so ambiguous." 
Schlesinger said farmers

O'Meara didn't believe that any changes in du Lac were Committee members Mary
would be "fully protected" 

necessary, however. He indicated that the best way to supervise Hawley and Ann Huber ex­
[conlin11ed on /Jage 2)

the academic policy was for the provost to tell the departments. plained to Velas9uez that num-
TUESDAY, MAY 1, 1979 
erous letters and phone calls to 
'The only hope in this is for all three parties : 
the growers, and the 
the cannery owners, 
farmworkers to sit down together.' 
both Campbell's and Lihb(s since February had been tg­nored until this week, when both companies sent explana­tions of their positions regard­ing farmworkers. 
Velasquez cited the compan­ies for deliberately confusing the issue with questionable statistics. He also revealed that Libby's was apparently interes­ted in the farmworker potential and had invited him to a meeting next month. 
"We're going ahead full steam with the boycott and strike plans," Velasquez said. He also announced that a convention of farmworkers would be held in early August, with Cesar Chavez attendin~, "because we've learned that s the only sure way to get the canneries' attention.' ' 
News in brief 
Tuesday, May 1, 1979 -page 2 
National Guard storms city; 
• • . Kennedy
troops exchange heavy fire 
[Continuedfrom page 3] they meet t~e requirements, key areas of the economy that 

l I 
I 
t 
whtch deal with human rights are beyond government control, MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP)--National guard planes fired for such privileges. ' particularly food costs.
rockets and machine guns into the northern city of Leon 
tion in the strongest manner he 
-The exchange last Friday of -He denied that he hadyesterday while troops in the streets exchanged heavy fire 
could" and added: "I hapr.en 
five ?oviet dissidents. freed by ''personally monitored who didwith leftist guerrillas, residents said. A Red Cross 
to think it's an indefensible 
R.ussia for two Russtan spies or did not use" the Whitespokesman, who asked not to be identified, said 100 people position." 
gtven up by the United States House tennis court. But he said had been killed. Guardsmen used a tank and armored 
Kennedy also said he antici­
was fair. and the result of "long his secretary, Susan Clough,personnel carriers to battle about 100 Sandinista guerrillas 
pates the president ''will run, 
~n~ tediOus a~d detailed nego­had kept track to make sure nowho began fighting late Sunday for control of the nation's 
be renommated and re-elect­
ttattons over stx months.'' one planned to use the courtsecond largest city. Leaon, 65 miles north of Managua, has 
ed" in 1980 and that he will 
·He e.xpe.cts some . tapering when someone else planned tobeen the scene of sporadic skirmishes between guernllas and support Carter. 
off of pnce mcreases m certain play.
the guard in the past six weeks, but Sunday's and 
During his televised news 
yesterday's was the heaviest fighting this year. 
conference, the president's 48th in 27 months in office, Carter also said that: 
-If the Senate rejects a news 
Anyone interested in applying 
Gas sold at 99 cents 
arms limitation treaty, he would still live up to its terms while ''monitoring very closely Soviet 
in radio station promotion 
(missile) activity." -He favors extending toSALINA, Kan. (AP)--A line of cars two miles long snaked its 
China and the Soviet Union the
way through downtown Salinas on Monday as motorists 
special trading status reserved
waited for gasoline to go on sale for 9.9 cents a gallon. 
for the United States' allies if
Driveers began lining up Sunday night for the three-hour, 40-minute gas sale, a promotion set up by a local radio scati0 n. Regular and unleaded brands of gasoline were sold on a first-come, first-serve basis, and between 1,000 and 1,500 gallons were pumped. Each motoris was limited to 10 
Under grad 

gallons, and the radio station picked up the rest ofthe cost, at 
73.9 cents a gallon for regular, 77.9 cents unleaded. 
Yearbook distribution 

should pick up application
Red river flood subsides; 
Yearbooks will be distributed to undergraduates today
fighters gain respite 
from the
through Friday from 12 noon to 
5 p.m. in LaFortune ballroom. FARGO, ND (AP)--The rampant Red River of the NOrth has 
Student I. D.'s will be required. "basically crested" along its reaches in North Dakota and 
Student Government Secretary 
Minnesota, giving respite yesterday to weary flood-fighters who battled more than a week to keep their communities above water. Despite the passing of the crest, the river level was still high, promwing the National Weather Service to 
by Thursday, May 3, at 5:00.
• • • Carter
warn flood-fighters 'not to relax their vigilance." "Any moderate or heavy rainfall we get will go right into the rivers . because the soils are highly saturated and It could cause the 
(continuedfrom page 1)

rivers to rise again,'' said Bob Nordland of the weather 
service. during any ranomng emer­gency, but Sen. Patrick J. Leahy, D-VT, the panel chair­man, said the plan was ''highly biased against rural areas." Sen. Jesse A. Helms, R-N.C.,
Weather 
said he and other farm state senators would filibuster 
1 Mostly sunny and warmer today with highs in the upper 50s. 
against the plan if they thought Fair and not so cool tonight with lows 10 the low 40s. Parly 
farmers would be hurt. cloudy tomorrow with a chance of showers by afternoon and 
Carter's energy conservation highs in the mid to upper 60s. 
plan ordered by Congress under a 1975 law, will die unless approved by the House and Senate by May 12. 
Another Carter energy­conservation measure ran into trouble in the Senate. 
. ·12 am--LADIES OF ND, spring luncheon, MORRIS PARK 
eObserver.
COUNTRY CLUB 



3 pro--ADDRESS, ''freedom of the press,'' lyle denniston, nd law school, LAW SCHOOL LOUNGE 
4:30 pm--AWARDS CEREMONY, air force rotc, MEM. LIB.* AUD. 4:30pm--SEMINAR, "photoperiodism in fishes: pathways involved in· the mediation of day length changes on annual and daily ph¥siological cycles," prof. vector de vlaming, marquette untv., 278 GALVIN 
6:45 pm--ANNUAL ATHLETIC BANQUET, SMC DINING HALL 
7 pro--SEMINAR, "abortion," with dr. walter nicgorski, WALSH LOUNGE 
7 pm MEETING, inpirg, RM 2d LA FORTUNE 
8 pm THEATRE PERFORMANCE, "happy days," by samuel beckett, O'LAUGHLIN AUD. SMC. 
8 pm--LECTIJRE, "roots of the present: academic notre dame, 1920-1940," prof. thomas stritch, nd, MEM. LIB. AUD. 
10 pm--MASS, ft. robert griffin, GROTTO 


l'l1ght Eduor: Sue Wuetcher Asst. Night Editor: Pam Degnan Copy Editor: Mare Ulicny Layout Staff: Guest appear­ance by Lori Editorial Layout: Tom Behney Sports Layout: Paul Barry Mullaney Typists: Mardi Nevin, Kim Convey, Beth Wzllard Early Morning Typist: Katie Day Editor: john Fen"O!i Ad Design: Barb Pratt, Dave Wood 
Photographer: jason joyce 
Till Ollurwr [USPS • 1111) II pullll&hld Molullr ....... Fltdlr".. Olpt dllriiiG IXIIIIIItd VICdelperfoda.The Observer Ia p!dilltbld 11r till atudlnb If Nlln 011111 llld Slltll 
,.. 
~·:=-· .........,..
,...,..,..n,., 
lllllllllrlflwnThe ObNMr, P.o. • 
Q, NttrtDIIM,Indllll.._ s..t 
............ ,..... o-, .. 
....

The --~ OblllrYer II 1 ........ II Ill 
a I 1111111 ,._, M ..If 1111
........ 

michael & co. Hair Concepts 
Hair design for Men & Women, 
with the emphasis on Easy Care open late tues.-thuts. 8 pm North 1/2 mile east of notre dame 18381 Edison at lnd 23 272-7222 South 2041 E. Ireland at Ironwood 291-1001 
master cha visa 
'
, 
The Observer Tuesday, Mayl, l/ .r. -page 3 

Commissioners discuss endorsements, boyc~Jtts 
by K. Connelly to reprove," Student Body Senior Copy Editor Vice-president Bill Vita said. 
The Board of Commissioners met for an hour last night to 
In the Campbell-Libby­
discuss endorsements of the Campbell-Libby-MacNeil refer­endum and additions to tbe 
MacNeil referendum, 
agenda for the up-coming Board of Trustees meeting. 
The board ap~;>roved endorse­ment for theOhw Farmworkers Roche sees 'boycott' Support Commit'tee boycott scheduled for this Thursday by a vote of seven to one with one 
abstention. as the answer. 
Arguments againt the sup­Patsy Neal, well-known clinician, was the featured speaker at last night's Women's Sports port of the boycotr centered on Banquet. [Photo by jason joyce] . 

a lack of information about the The board also voted to allow Campbell-Libby-MacNeil two Observer representatives to of billing whether they want to •••••••••••••••••••••••• 
stance on the farmworkers' contribute to InPIRG, rather
attend the Board of Trustees
situation. than obtaining a refund at a meeting to be held later this 
'J 1' 1\.
Shannon Neville, off-campus later date. 
month.
representative to the board, Roche said that since ) ones indicated that the companies A group of students who had informed him of the lnPIRG 
on or off campus interested in
had been given the opportunity oppose the proposed InPIRG fee ch~nge just yesterday after­to present their case to the 
fundi~g md echadndism also will bde noon' he hadn't been able to 
being on
student bodv but have not P?rttte to a Tress the Boar check with the opponents of theresponded. Other members o rustees. he group may previous! proposed funding
noted that Campbell's had been chose not to address the board, . Y ·­consulted on the administration however because yesterday af--mechamsm to see tf they would level. t~rnoon ~n InPIRG r~presenta--object to the latest proposal. . 
Senior Advisory Council
The argument also included ttve told Roche that mstead of The board_ agr_eed unam­discussion on the necessity of the refundable mandatory fee, mously to gtve ume to the surporting the boycotr for ethi­he will request an optional ~pponents of the _InPIRG fund­ca reasons. check-off method. mg mechamsm 1n case they 
Cat/ Nick 1691, Mary 8037
"It carries more weight for This change would allow ~hose to opfose the new fund­Notre Dame to boycott than just students to indicate at the time mg proposa as well. 
Tom 1768 or Bob 234-4347 uetween Mon and Fri 
NO advertises for SA director r--;e-;~~:po~:;:;7n:-, 
by Don Schmzd applicants tc. Van Wolvlear, Reid has handled student activ-I 'a CjR€at taste srnsatlon' I StaffReporter who will make the final selec-ities and foresees no structural , 1 tion for Reid's successor. Wolvlear stated. The search for a new director "The person selected for the He added that he was ex-I 2.&: ¢ 0 ~~ ~ ny I of student activities will begin job will have to understand the tremely pleased with the way ~ Ql 1 I
1

with advertisements placed in dynamics of the situation be-• such national publications as tween Notre Dame and Saint changes tn the position for next I I the ChronicleforHigherEduca-Mary's student activities," Van year. I susmaRIO€ sanbWICh I 
tion and such newspapers as the South Bend Tribune and the I With thiS ab I 
ch.ftg~o~~to~n~.ill_beavailable KennetJ..y accuses Carter 1 , qoob apnJl 29-may 3 1 
at the end of thts semester, _ · when John Reid, current direc-f 'th • -. h /' I I 
~~~o~~av~~e ~y;~~to~a~? t~~ ... ~ rowtn:g tn t e towe 1 open t:R1 anb Sat t1U 1 am 1 
Seattle-based Channel. The Channel is an organization de­
voted to training young adults for lay ministry. An interviewing committee consisting of Reid, Assistant 
Director of Student Activities Fr. Mario Pedi and Sr. Judith Ann Beattie, director of volun­teer services, will interview ten of the applicants by phone. After the initial phone inter­views, the committee will inter­view three or four prospective directors here at Notre Dame according to Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vice-president for student affairs. The committee tt>en will rec­ommend one or rwo of the 
InPIRG to hold meeting 
The Indiana Public Interest Research Group (lnPIRG) will hold a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in room 2-D LaFortune. The group will discuss bringing its proposal before the Board of Trustees. University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh's letter explaining his response to lnPIRG's proposal will be pre­sented, along with some poss­ible modifications to the pro­posal. 
_ 

~ phon€ In 0Ub€U In abVMlC€ rou I WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi-really can't-believe that Senator I QUik Plk-Up Se"VICe 1 
dent Carter said "baloney" Kennedy said this unless the K 
yesterday to Sen. Edward M. phrases were taken out of 1 r ... ll 272 44r::.3 I 
Kennedy. context because everyone \.41. -~ The president said he who's in the Congress knows h 8109 Stat€ Rb. 23 (aCROSS ~ROm fat VJally's)l
couldn't believe the Massachu-that decontrol is mandated into .. 
setts senator had accused him the present law." of "throwing in the towel" in In his New York speech, ordering the decontrol of do-Kennedy said: "The overbear­mestic oil prices. and trying to ing power of the oillobby ... has cover it up with a fig leaf in the intimidated the administration form of a windfall profits tax. into throwing in the towel 
Kennedy made those com-without even entering the ring ments earlier yes(erday to the on the issue of oil-pnce decon-American Society of Newspaper trol." Editors in New York. Carter He said the oil lobby "has retorted at a White House news also intimidated the administra­conference in his half of a quick tion into submitting a token one-two with the Democrat who windfall (profits) tax that is no leads him in early public opin-more than atransparent fig leaf ion polls on favontes for the over the vast new profits the 1980 presidential nomination. industry will reap." 
When a questioner put Ken-Asked followtng the news nedy's words to the president, conference about Carter's com­Carter replied, "that's just a lot ments, Kennedy said the presi­of baloney." dent was "defending his posi-
Then, as if to temper his words, the president added: "I [conhn11ed on page 2 · 
Summer Storage Space Special Discout for N.D. Students 
259-0335 
SeU Lock Storage ol McKinle 

WHAT? WHERE? 41USS€p€'S WHO? all OBS€RV€R Sta~~ JOVJt€b WHEN? ~at may 5 
9:00pm--? 

van will deliver Observerites 
BEER & PIZZA 
i 4 
I 

The Observer Tuesday, May 1, 1979 -page 4 
New SMC Board meets 
by Margie Brassil help define their own positions Assitant Saint Mary 's Editor and create guidelines for future commissioners. 
The 1979-1980 Board of Gov­One of the ways devised for ernance met for the first time this redefining process is the last night in the Student Gov­new worksheet system for keep­ernment Office in the basement ing records and evaluating each of North Regina. project sponsored by the Stu­
After introductions, Student dent Government. According Government President Pia Tri­to Sweeney, the purpose of giani spoke of the goals and these sheets is to provide more objectives of the new Student continuity for each year and lay Government officers. Vice­foundations for future officers. President of Student Affairs Mary Laverty gave a brief Kathleen Sweeney explained explanation about setting up the new procedure of work­the Student Government calen­sheets. In conclusion, Mary dar for next year and planning Laverty, director of student the yrojected budget. While no activities, spoke about the pro­fina decisions were made last cedures and guidelines for next night, such activities for next year. year as College to Career Days 
"We want to make Student and Freshmen Orientation were Government more creduble, a discussed. more visible working group on Present at the meeting, and campus," Trigianni said in her forming next year's Board of opening statements. One ofher Governance were: President main topics was the redefining Pia Trigiani, Vice-president of of Student Government and the STudent Affairs Kathleen positions involved. Sweeney Sweeney, Vice-president of Ac­added that it would be up to the ademic Affairs Chip Dornbach, commissioners themselves to Developmental Commissioner 
Adri. Trigiani, Spiritual Com­missioner Mary Ryan, Co-Ex TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -Revo­An Iranian Foreign Ministry toward reducing the vigilante
Commissioner Maryellen 

lutionary leader Ayatollah Ru spokesman said he could nei­atmosphere in much of Iran,Maccio, Athletic Commissioner 
hollah Khomeini ordered that ther confirm nor deny the issuing orders that personsKari Meyer, Off-campus Com­Iran cut its diplomatic relations reported break, but sources considered incapable of hand­
missioner Margaret Dimond, 

with Egypt yesterday, state close to Prime Minister Mehdi ling weapons be disarmed. Election Commissioner Mary radio reported. Egypt respond­Bazargan' s Cabinet said an Mullaney, Judicial Commis­ed by summoning its diplomats announcement on the matter Sources in the office of Public sioner Martha Boyle, Social home. would probably be made today Prosecutor Mehdi Hadavi said Commissioner Mary Ellen Con­Khomeini' s reported move by the Khomeini-appointed strict orders also were issued to nelly, Public Relations Commis­was made in support of the provisional government. prosecutors in the provinces to sioner Mary Angela Shannon Arab nations that have severed In another development, Ira­stop the illegal sale and smug­and Treasurer Sheila Wixted. ties with Cairo in retaliation for nian authorities took new steps gling of weapons.
Hall representatives are Sue Egyptian President Anwar Sa­Turcotte, Estelle Geyer and dat's signing of a peace treaty
) ean Ament, presidents of Au­with Israel. Almost all of gusta, Holy Cross and LeMans Sadat's fellow Arabs have con­
T a/madge calls aide 11liar" 
Halls, respectively. Class Pres­demned the peace pact.

idents on the board are Leslie The revolutionary regime in WASHINGTON (AP) -Sen. deems appropriate.''Griffith, sophomore class, Susie non-Arab but staunchly Mos­Herman Talmadge, D-GA, de­The panel can also recom­Eckelcamp, junior class, and lem Iran has expressed strong livered a surprise attack on his mend to Senate Democrats that Debbie Roberts, senior class. backing for the Palestine Liber­principal accuser yesterday as Talmadge be stripped of his 
ation Organization and for Arab the Senate Ethics Commtttee chairmanship of the Agriculture demands for the return of opened hearings into allega­Committee and his seniority in
Texas Club Israeli-occupied lands, includ­tions offinancial wrongdoing by the Senate. ing East ) erusalme and its the 22-year veteran of the Or it can find him innocent of Moslem holy sites. Senate. any wrongdoing and drop the
INDIANAPOLIS 317-846-5591 
Iranian revolutionaries were Talmadge said his former whole matter.
contact Macia

SOUTH BEND 219-287-2823 
angered, too, when Sadat administrative assistant, Daniel There are five separate CLASSES BEGIN JUNE 4 Texas Club members who played host to Shah Moham­Minchew, was a "proven liar, charges of violations of Senate Reza for few rules.
need rides or transportation of mad Pahlavi a thief and embezzler."
[gj~~~~~ belongings to Texas should days in p after the mon-But the committee also heard The major allegation is that contact Roman Macia, club arch fled Iran and went into testimony from a current aide to Talmadge ordered Minchew to president, at 7018 by May 5. exile in the face of mounting the senator that Talmadge re­set aside $39,000 in campaign
CPA 
Only members who have paid opposition to his rule. served $40,000 annually in pub­contributions and Senate ex­REVIEW their yearly dues are eligible for lic funds from a n office account pense funds, some of which 
this service. "to do with as he saw fit." allegedly went for Talmadge's
Griffin Until resterday, it was not personal needs. known i Talmad~e, chairman Talmad~e told members of of the Senate Agnculture Com­the committee that for them to 

mittee, would testify in his own find him guilty of misusing defense. some of the $39,000, "you would have to accept the word 
celebrates

The Observer wants 
Shortly after the proceedings
Mass 

opened, however, Talmadge of a proven liar, cheat and
YOU! 
embezzler.''

declared that he would make his own opening argument, and 
• Mass will be celebrated to-
Minchew, now a lobbyist for 
1:\ night at 10 p.m. at the Grotto. 
Good typesettmg jobs 
a group of ) apanese business­
.Fr. Robert Griffin will be the he remained in the room for the men, has been under investiga­\ celebrant and dedicate the first several hours of testi­tion by the ) ustice Department
are now 

Mass to Mary for the month of mony. 


May. The Glee Club will sing. 
We need 
open for 

typists! 
next year. 

AFR()TC 
Raffle drawing 
will be at todav's Awards Ceremony. 4:30pm-­Library Lounge 
for his part in managing Tal­•'The evidence will not show madge's financial affairs.
that I have engaged in any He is expected to testify later 
intentional wrongdoing,'' Tal­in the hearings, which will runmadge said. ''The evidence over eight days. 
will reveal no conduct that warrents any discipline by the Senate.'' 
In effect, Talmadge acted as 
Santos his own L~efensc attornev in delivering an opening state­
named 

ment. He was not subject to cross­
to Ct1mmittee 
examination by the SIX mem­
ber::-of the committee and The American Psychological reserves the choice of whether Association has named Dr. 
to appear as a witness in his John Sa11tos to its steering own defense later. 
committee for the training of 
The committee can take no psychologists for work in aging. 
action by itself, but can recom­Santos is professor of psychol­
mend a variety of possible ogy at Notre Dame and director 
punishments to the full Senate. of the Program in Gerontolog­They include censure, expul­ical Education, Research and sion ''or other such remedy as ;t Services. 


KEMPTON PARK, South Africa (AP)-A South African court yesterday found eleven black student leaders guilty of sedition for organizing protest marches in June, 1976. Police intervention led to bloody nationwide riots that left 700 blacks dead. 
In finding the "Soweto eleven" --one woman and ten men--guilty, Justice Hendrik Van Dyk dismissed tbe students' defense that their demonstrations in tlie black suburban Johannesburg town­ship ofSoweto were nonviolent. 
The students were protesting against the inferior black education system and the use of the Afrikaans language in their schools. The students had demanded they be taught in English. 
The judge's ruling defined sedition in the broadest sense, terming it any gathering with an intent to "defy, subvert or assail the authority of the stae or any of its organs." 

The trial was South Africa's first sedition case in 30 years, and VanDyk's ruling could give South Afnca's white minority government a new weapon against black resistance to its official policy of apartheid-­racial segregation. 

Disregarding the question of whether the blacks' grievances were genuine, Van Dyk ruled that even a non-violent protest was seditious if it included defiance of police or other authorities. 
Defense lawyer Shun Chetty declined comment on the ruling until sentences were handed down. The next stage in the seven-month trial begins Tuesday and allows the defense to argue mitigating circum­stances for lighter sentences. 
Under the South African legal system, the penalty for sedition is largely up to the 
! I iudge.. Th~ maximum penalty 1s life m pnson. 
Approximately 100 friends and relatives of the eleven student leaders jammed the small courtroom. Police stood guard with submachine guns. There *"ere no incidents. 
The trial was closely watched in South Africa as the first indicati~n of the government's response to the nationwide riotmg, arson and destruction during the summer of 1976. Officials have said the rioting caused $17.39 million in damage. Hundreds of blacks were detained anrl hundreds more fled to exile aoroad. . 

ANDO'S 
BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 1437 N .Ironwood Dr. South Bend 
277-0615 
Sue, Ruthie, Kim 
Armando-stylist · mon-wed-fri 8-5:30 
tues-thurs 8-Spm sat 8-2
by appt. only t-no appt. needea 
Court finds 11 guilty in South African riot 
An official investigation, the Cillie Commission, into the causes of the upheaval has yet to produce a roport. 
The Soweto eleven were first detained for a year after the outbreak of the riots. They were not brought to trial on the sedition charges for 27 months. Their lawyers claimed they were beaten and tortured while in jail. The police deny that charge. 
The prosecution contended the students were revolution­aries who conspired to violently confront the state and thus touched off the rioting. 
The defense, led by Cherty and Ernest Wentzel, said the initial protests were the work of non-violent organizations with no other way of making their grievances heard. The lawyers said the police touched off the riots by opening fire on the demonstrators. 
-~---­


r----------------------------------~
I 
I 
I 
I 
I. 
I 
1 1 

I1 
I 
1 
1 

I 
II 
I 
1 
1 

1 
1 
I1 
I 
I
1 
II 
1 
I1 I 
II 
I 
I 
I 
The Saint Mary's 1979-80 Board of Governance met last night and began planning next year's calendar. The Board also discussed detazls for Freshman On.entation and Career Days. [Photo by jason joyce] 
EARN OVER$650AMONTH I RIGHT THROUGH YOUR j 
If you're a junior or senior majoring in sciences like math, physics or engineering, the Navy has a program you should know about. 

It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-­Collegiate Program (NUPOC-C for short) and if you qualify, you can earn as much as $650 a month right 
·'through your senior year. Then after 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, you'll get an additional year 
of advanced technical 
education. This would cost thousands in a civilian school, but in the Navy, we pay you. , It isn't easy. There are 
fewer than 400 openings and only one of every six applicants,will be selected. 
But if you make it, you'll have unequaled hands-on 

~. I 
I 
I 

responsibility, a $24,000 I salary in four years, and gilt-1 edged qualifications for jobs 1 both in the Navy and out. I 
Ask your placement I officer to set up an interview I with a Navy representative I when he visits the campus, 1 or contact your Navy 1 representative at 800-841-8000, I or send in the coupon. The I NUPOC-C Program. Not I only can it help you complete I college. It can be the start of 1 an exciting career. 1 
~-------------.. . I 
1 
NAvY oPPORTUNITY 8704
INFORMATION CENTER 
I ~~·~~:k:C::e~:!:::::;:r::· N.Y.l0803
I ~heNuroc.-cPrqgram(fiJO>. 
1 ·-·­
Add ,,_.....,, 
I ~: 
Zi 
I Age tcoJJege/Univenity
I .!:";::..,.,. "''"'".... 
I Phone Number lA_......
&...::•.:,
____________. 
I 
I·' 1 
II II 
1 1 I 1. 
II 1 
I 
I II 

-----------------------------------1 
NAVY OFFICERS I 
GET RESPONSI•UTY FASI. I 

--------------------~--------------------------------------------------· 
Editorials 
Tuesday, May 1, 1979 -page 6 

OOONESBURY 

_The Observer_ 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
· 
administration of either instituuon. 

Editorial Board 
The news is reponed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Fearures Editor ....... Chris Stewart represent the opinion of a majorit~ of Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian the Editorial Board. Commentanes, Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ...... K. Connelly 
Please Pass the Salt 
WASHINGTON--"! never have understood why so many hawkish civilians and retired military men are against SALT II," Millirem said. 
''They feel the Strate~ic Arms Limitation Talks will gtve the Soviets an edge on us,'' I replied. 
"Nonsense. If we sign a SALT treaty we're going to spend billions of dollars on new weaponry that is not included in SALT. We will have to escalate our military budget to take into consideration all the advan­tages we had prior to a SALT II agreement. SALT will be a boon to the Pentagon chiefs because they can argue that unless they get what they want, this country will be at the mercy of the Kremlin's multiple war­heads. Congress will have to give them anything they ask for to prove they are not stripping this country of its defenses.'' 
"You mean SALT II doesn't limit the arms that the Soviet 
Union  and  the  United  States  
possess?"  .  
"You're  really  dumb,"  he  

said. "An arms limitation treaty just forces the military leaders of the two powers to 
with more · 
by Garry Trudeau 

ed ways ot not being caught with their missiles down. If you reduce your throw weight ca­pacity in one area, you have to strengthen it in another. The Air Force wants an MX system which is a giant underground railroad that will move our missiles around so the Soviets won't know where they are. This shell game has been priceq at $30 billion. The military have a much better chance of gettin~ it with a SALT treaty than if we don't sign one. They're going to go up on the Hill and prove that with arms limits it's essential we have the system or our missile bases will be caught naked in a first-strike attack." 
"I thought SALT was sup­posed to save us money." 
"Don't you believe it," Milirem said. "SALT is the mother's' milk of defense ap­propriations. Without it the mihtary would have to make do with what they've got now." 
"Do you think the Soviet military will ask for more money for their weapons if a SALT treaty is signed?" 
"They have no choice. Their marshals will tell the Kremlin 
Art Buchwald 
that SALT has put the Soviet Union in a very precarious position, and they will have to have billions of rubles if they expect the Soviets to have superiority over the United States. They will demand a crash program to make the missiles allowed under SALT three times as deadly as they ae now.'' 
"I guess I am dumb," I said, "but why would both countries go to so much trouble to wotk out a treaty on limiting nuclear weapons if they know it is going to cost them so much more in the end?" 
He said, ''The reason the leaders of both countries want a SALT agreement is that, having started their talks, theY. will be put in a bind if they fall. Their reputation as peacemakers will be in serious jeopards. Once you have a taste of SALT you have to eat it.'' 
"So, we're damned if we have SALT II and damned if we don't.'' 
"You can say that again." 
"What's the answer?" 
"What's the question?" 

''Why are the Hawks and the retired military leaders so adamant against a SALT treaty if it means the Defense De­partment will get what it wants tf an agreement is signed?" 
"It beats me. All I know is that, if the President wants to get his SALT treaty through Con~ress, he will have to prove he IS not /oing to let this country win up second best in the missile race. Brezhnev is also going to have to assure his people that he hasn't given anything away to the United States.'' 
"Where will it all end?" asked. 
"SALT IlL" (c] 1979, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 



The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewis Business Manager ..... Steve Odland 
'newspaper published by students of able to all members of the .community, News Editor ............ Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan the University of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News Editor .......... .Mike Shields Saint Mary's College. Ir does not opinions on campus, through leners, is Saint Marv's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ......Bob R necessariJ>' reflect the policies of the encouraged. Sports Ed;tor ...........Mark Perry Controller . , ......... John Ta 

POBoxQ 


products was supposedly a reached by the entire university 

Moral reasons morally attractive course of except for one single person, it action. Such a decison must be is wron~ to force him to shareneeded a very private directive that our decision and our boycott. says, "I will suffer an inconve­The intensely personal man­nience to give you the clout you ner in which we should come to
for boycott 
need to realize your goals." · decide whether or not to boycott Morality is a very personal sug~ests that to base such a

Dear Editor: 
subject indeed, and moral deci­decision on a majority vote is sions must be backed by the wrong and should not be tole­For anyone who is not eco­

principles of genuine care and rated by anyone, despite their

nomically involved in a situa­
mformed concern. It is cer­feelings towards this specific

tion like the Ohio farmworkers' 
tainly. our duty to become case. 

movement, the decision to sup­
informed on the matters at Rather than inflicting our 

port a boycott can only be made 
hand. Yet, even if agreement desires on anyone, it is clear 

as a result of moral reasoning, 
to boycott certain foods is that the only just boycott would 

just as the boycott of Nestles 
Danehy comments on trial 
It was just three years ago that I gave notice in that temporary situation, until legislation or 
writing that I wanted to continue as an active Supreme Court decision makes it no longer 
member of the faculty after my sixty-fifth tenable? 
birthday. After more than eight months of 
unsuccessful personal negotiation with the Every advance in legislation is preceded by a 
chemistry department and with the administra­moral consensus. One would confidently expect 
tion, I sought legal counsel and reluctantly filed that Notre Dame, under the leadership of a 
suit against the administration on February 28, president who was a charter member of the 
1977. The case came to trial in the Circuit Court United States Civil Rights Commission and its 
of Starke County on April 9, 1979. Last Friday chairman for three years, would set an example 
Judge McLaughlin found that "the law is with which wold contribute to attaining that moral 
the defendant." (the administration) consensus which would lead to the establish­
If I am not much disappointed, it is not only ment of guarantees for the rights of older 
because I had anticipated such a result, but persons.'' 
because I had long since accomplished what I set 
out to do. I had challenged a power which had Unfortunately, the adminstration of the 
long and continuously practiced an arbitrary, University of Notre Dame does " ... want to take 
discriminatory, unjust, and unchristian policy, advantage of that temporary situation ... '' down 
comfortable in the conviction that it did not have to the last second on the clock. The latest 
to answer to any of the individuals who suffered legislative advance, which raises the minimum 
from its unilateral decisions. age at which employment may be terminated 
Perhaps the surprise is not that I took the for age alone, from 65 to 70, is marred by a 
matter to court, but that no one at Notre Dame blatantly discriminatory clause, which excludes 
had ever done so before. Court-ordered records from the protection of the law tenured college 
certify that in the period of 1967-76, of the professors until July 1, 1982. That unfair 
eighty-one faculty members who reached their advantage was gained by the lobbying in 
sixty-fifth birthdays, 54 had their employment Washington of the adminstrations df many 
terminated and· 27 were allowed to continue universities, including Notre Dame . One 
full-time from one to six years. Notre Dame administrator said recently that 
These data make clear both the magnitude of they intended to keep what they worked hard to the problem and the fact that the admmistration gain. On Sunday, May 20, as the members of does not have a mandatory termination policy. the senior class are commencing their careers, at What they do maintain IS mandatory loss of least six more of the faculty will have theirs tenure ·at 65, followed by a capricious continua­terminated, in most cases regretfully. tion of one-third of the faculty over 65. Judge I love Notre Dame. I've been here in one way McLaughlin found that ''defendant has a or another for fifty years, since I arrived as a sketchy procedure for rehiring ... has no stan­freshman in 1929. I consider myself a fully valued dards, requirments, or prerequisites for deter­member of the community and I intend to mining who will be rehired.'' He also found that remain one until I take the place reserved for me in my case "Neither plaintiff's competence, in the cemetery fronting on Notre Dame Avenue. mental or physical, nor any 'cause' was an It is both a pleasure and a duty to element in the ending of plaintiffs tenure acknowledge with deep gratitude the support, contract.'' both spiritual and financial, extended to me by 
But the judge did find that ''The law is with students, faculty, and members of the Congre­the defendant.'' Civil laws cover only what has gation of the Holy Cross. While I was not been enacted. They cannot generally be used to surprised to receive support, the magnitude of it determine or to define what isJ· ust or unjust. truly overwhelmed me. And it is injustice, and only inci entally the law, james P. Danehy to which my protest was directed. 
Human sensitivity to the various issues of justice emerges gradually as part of social evolution. Only recently has the notion of termination of employment based on age alone been challenged as a form of discrimination. It is the latest phase in a clearly discernible historical development: the gradual elimination of the disabilities under which various groups have labored unjustly and unnecessarily. Earlier, and not necessarily in this order, the Roman Catholics, the Jews, the blacks, and other ethnic groups; most recently women, and finally, the aging. 
A consensus has developed rapidly in this country in support of older citizens, reflected in several legislative advances from 1967 to 1978 It is a foregone conclusion that within a very few years termination of employment based on age alone will be banned absolutely nation-wide. 
Universities should not be repositories for patently unreasonable positions, and Christian universities should not perpetuate injustices. In a letter which I wrote on November 24, 1976 to Provost Burtchaell, with a copy to President Hesburgh, I concluded: 
''Nevertheless it is quite possibly true that a policy like the one confrontmg me is legally safe for the present, if universally applied. Does Notre Dame really want to take advantage of be to refuse to eat those foods the consumption of which hurts the cause of the farmworkers. Hopefully this would reduce the demand for those products enough that the dimng hall would discontinue serving them. If this does not happen, then there is not enough con­cern to warrant a boycott-­possibly a sad reflection on our student body but perhaps a truthful and accurate one. 
Bill Nielsen 
FLOC 
sanctions unwarranted 
Dear Editor: 
"Social justice" is a much abused term on this campus. We, the student body, have voted to ban (not boycott) Nestle products and seem t9 be in the process of doing the same to Campbell's and Libby's tomato products. I might not be very perceptive, but I do not belteve that anyone has l?roven guilt in either case sufficient to warrant sanctions. I, as I think most, would be hard pressed to explain exactly what Nestle S.A., and particularly Nestle (U.S.), has done to the children of the Third World. If they have caused anything physi­cally harmful, I doubt that malice can be proven. {Water can be harmful when one is drowning, but that is not the fault of the water). In light of the assumption of guilt m the Nestle and Campbell-Libby cases, a rationale of injustice rather than justice is implied. 
A more foreboding thought, though, beyond social injusuce, looms in my mind. Are we, the ND/SMC student body, to be­come the new morality of society? I know that I would not trust myself with designing my own morality, much less the interpretation of what is good for our society: I cannot be convinced that anyone who has lived a mere eighteen to twenty-two years has the knowledge, or the wisdom, to speak of "soci:tl justice." 
Many eighteen to twenty-two year-olds, myself included, are still trying to figure out who they are. Asking us to answer a question dealing with the well being of a group of individuals, given our ltmited experience is both foolish, on our part, and unfair to the parties concerned. 
Finally, given our system of le~al justice, if the Ohio migrant workers are truly vict­ims of injustice, then they have a valid greivence which can and should be settled in ·a court of law. Some may protest the fact that the legal process is slow; this is true, but a "boy_cott" of any ~roduct initially affects the distnbutors, not the "oppres­sors" themselves. I personally will vote against the "boycott" and leave the resolution of tis real problem to those who have the knowledge and wisdom to settle this situation fairly. 
Carl Muckenhirn 
Nader congratulates 
ND students 
Editor's Note: The following is a copy ofa letter recently sent to Father Hesburgh by con­sumer advocate Rtilph Nader. Members of the local lnPIRG chapter requested that it be printed in The Observer. 
Dear Father Hesburgh: 
I am pleased to learn that the students ofNotre Dame Univer­sity have petitioned to establish a chapter of Indiana Public Interest Research Group (INPIRG) on campus. INPIRG has much to offer Indiana students in terms of community involvement, and the staff of INPIRG has assured me the students ofNotre Dame can and will play an active role in the pubhc interest movement in Indiana. 
I hope you administration will actively encourage the estab­lishment of a chapter of Indiana Public Interest Research Group at Notre Dame. 
Sincerely, Ralph Nader 


--------------~--~~-----~-------------­


Features 
Tuesday, May 1, 1979 -page 8 
AMPHYTRION'79: Mythology in Review 
by Doug Kreitzberg 
woman surrogate, is born. Seems atmosphere where ac~or both plays his a spontaneous celebration of theatre.
As I was walking home from the 
simple enough, but Jupiter reveals role and at the same time observes and The audience is given an exuberantSMC production of Amphytrion himself to Sodine as Amphytrion, her comments o!l ~he character. Th~ gods mi!ld game with which they not only'79, the asphalt pavement, glazed with war-hero husband. What occurs is a belt_ out therr Ja~z-rock songs ~Ith t~e enJ~Y ~s pleasure, but also as arainwater and shimmering in the trois" not feelmg of a mght club while still realtzatton of the complexity andbrightness of a nearby streetlight, "menage a but really, because Amphytrion is both the mortal devel~pi~g the p_lot. . intellectual content of the play. 
suddenly became transformed into a general and the immortal god who are Sodme s affi~Io/ to Juptter shown A~phytrion '79 questions ourseries of radiating foci; each individual 
one and the same. Therefore, Sodine th\ough surrealistic poetry produ~es defintt~on of masculinity while at theparticle cook on its own char~cter and commits adultery with her husband u_mque langu~ge and gesture.s whic_h same ttme praises mortality. Sodine,persued its own direction while at the who isn't, yet is, because, well you nse an~ fall with a near-hallucmo~entc the metaphysical commentator of thesame time managing to coalesce with see, . . . All I can say is that the conscwusnes_s.. Melodrama. Intr?-play, _admonishes Jupiter when hethe other particles so the concrete situation is very confusing! · duces the vtlltan-hero relationship offers Immortality. Immonaliy meanswould not erupt and fragment beneath David Weber's "performance which defines Herculea's destiny ~o life without change, a nonsensualme. The road was reduced to a myriad place" provides the invironment use her half-god half-mortal powers m orgy. "The universe flows it does notof elements racing towards entropy yet applicable to both the actor's physical the pursui~ of equality. The dancer's stand stil!," she states. As'a war hero,
magically and beautifully held 
energy and the audience's imaginative folk-rock-disco choreography relates a Amphytnon is unable to change with.:ogether. 
Amphytn.on '79 produces this same imput in an ever present spirit of sense of timelessness in a the winds of peace and therefore theatrical irreverence. Olympus's contemporary focus. Extremities exist becomes immortal. ' 
effect. It is a delight for the audience 
marbalized dream walls produce a side by side without conflict. The Herculea as the verbal defender ofto see totally separate scenes create penthouse in the sky suspended in a audience is al_way~ co~sciously aware righ_ts takes his place. We, thetheir own theatrical atmosphere while state of playful fantasy. The doll the. A"!phytnon 79 _IS a play, and audience, are given the chance toat the same time form an in~;>enetrable house world of Amphytrion's home a~am m the Brechttan theory, can recognize this change· to realize thatwhole. What is perceived IS not one emits a sense of sobriety which digest the theme without losing them-~he way of t~e future ~an not be found "type" of theatre (musical, melo­nonetheless seems as if it were at any selves to .~mpathy. m the classics but in the movementsdrama, chamber, comedy) but theatre moment about to explode into the The ability of the actor to re~pond to un~erlring our social structure today.
in its joyous entirety. Bursting forth 
with amazing this show confusion the plot invokes. This same the type of performance thts show Comer s theatre is a · theatre of
yivacity, 
feeling of breaking apart can be felt to demands requires continuous energy entertainment but it can be more fortranscends the conventional a lesser extent in the earthy stability of and these players have shown that the conscientious observer. 
sequencing of events according to 
the Grange which, although uptight they can ~chieve such a requirement. Amph:ytn.on '79 is a'euphoric acidrealistic time and instead places the and steadfast, is literally shown to be Outstandmg characters are created by test which assaults the mind bothaction according to the illogical logic of ripped out of the context of its John Davenport and Br~an McLinde_n intellectually and pleasurably.
the actor's, character's, and 
situation. The lighting compliments whos_e scene together Is a comedic Altho_ugh the ending seems somewhataudience's imagination. 
classic. . contnved, the play is handed over to
In attempting the "demyth the myth both the set and Diana Hawfield's 
of Amphytrion," Miles Coiner unpretentious yet mood inspiring C_harles Wood's Amphytnon/ us to. finish. The villian in the play costumes. J uptter seems to be tht; weak spot ?f prom_tses to return, not on stage, but in
restructures the plot around three time 
The action is constructed as a jazz the cast. He acts stiffer than his the ltves of the audience. For thoseperiods: The tumultous era of 
number: each scene is a separate riff, uniform an_d a lack of latera! moti_on with. a shy desire to perform this playReconstruction, the women's move­
fluid, stamps prevents his body form flowmg with the in an
ment in the 1890's, and the immortal staccato or which its provtdes opportunity, 
impression on the audience, then the words. . . mtellt;ctual sense. If you want tofrozen time of the gods. For those of suddenly mm ~s to the next solo. The On the whole, thts. _show IS an e~per~ence the rush of a psychedelicyou unfamiliar with the myth of result is a cominual inorganic surge of example of the ~ersattltty that th~ tnp wtthout having to crash, I suggestAmphytrion, it is the story of Jupiter, power in all its vissicitudes. Coiner actors have found m themselves, and It that you turn on to this show. It canKing of the Gods, who-falls in love has abandoned the realism of his is a versatility that promises to change give you a different view of realitywith Sodine, a mortal woman, and out characters provide Brechtian even with each performance, making it even asphalt roads. ' 
of the union, Herculea, a heroine to a 



Miles Cioner: Creator of Amph_ytrion '79 
Experiences in London Doug Kreitzberg 
1oel Mjolsness 
Article II of Scandinavian women between the or go to the movies, I'm always Brecht, according to Coiner, states 
Whenever I read a book, see a play, dramatic theorist, Bertold Brecht. 
ages of 17 and 30. 
intrigued by the creative process the that the theatre should ''deal with 
[Intro Insert] This is the second in a I rang the doorbell and when a writer or artist went through to issues at a complex level while at the 
senes of two articles describing the young redhead appeared, I introduced produce his or her particular work. same time be entertaining ... serious 
London program avainable to Notre myself as a Norwegian-American and What we see in print or on stage is the art needn't turn people off,'' and the 
Dame MBA students. asked if I could join the social hour. result of a lot of sleepless nights, stage should be "engaging the mind in 
She led me in. It is a very perspiration, (in this case) pipe a sense of play.'' 
The most unique experience I had in uncomfortable feeling to have 80 the for months 10 London was spend­female Norwegian eyes staring at you.
tobacco, dry pens, and crumpled Using this definition, Coiner de­
ing a evening as the only male I broke the ice by telling them, in an abstract idea to a concrete produc­against myth'' wtth forms varymg 
paper. All this work just to move from structures the play and pits "myth 
surro ... _ded by 40 single Norwegian Norwegian, I was glad to be there. tion. LJsually the author is not there to from "slapstick to surrealistic 
women. That evening turned out to be It all be~an when I spent 10 days in enjoyable. It also gave my flat mates
explain what he wept through and poetry." The result is a very diverse 
Norway visiting relatives before the and I a chance to associate with a few him, he's always out to lunch so you're structural complexity is on purpose'' 
why, and if you try to get in touch with yet tightly knit production. "The 
fall semester be~an in London. My Norwegian ladies throughout the sem­stuck with his work and your assump­
Norwegian cousm suggested that I ester allowing us to learn someto provide something very alive and attend the Norwegian Seaman's Norwegian.
tion of why it was written. Fortun­entertaining yet capable of giving a 
church in London. He said that the The four months in London provided Amphytrion '79, the current ND-SMC 
ate.ly, however, the author of message. 
entire service would be in Norwegian an excellent environment to enjoyThe magic in theatre, for Coiner, "is and it would give me a chance to social and cultural experiences--pubs,thc;atre production, is not only back seeing if everything works out right.''
from lunch, but a professor in the 
improve my understanding of the theatre, athletic events, restaurants,Theatre is a spontaneous chance language and to meet other Norweg­discotheques. It still amazes me howSp~ech and Drama department: Miles encounter between the actor and
COmer. . 
ians in London. many activities and trips we packedaudience very much like a circus. A 
After each service, the women in the into the four months.
. We sat in the pleasant amosphere of play differs slightly from the Big Top church would serve good strong coffee Besides being the banking center fSt. Mary's subterranean; snack bar tn that it is built upon sollle content orburning our tongues ovq steaming 
and the delicious cakes for· which the world, London offers nearly anytheme. For him, "entertiainment hasand I witnessed ~r. Coiner's Norwegian women are famous. While activity you can imagine. Each week ato engage the mind.'' 
I was sipping my coffee, I asked an publication can be bought on theas he told me why he Coiner writes according to the elderly lady where I might meet some newstands for 50 pence (approx. $1)Amphytnon '79 and his ideas on rhythm of the dialogue~ He gets young Norwegians--preferably called Time Out. Each issue containsl "pleasure from words: devoid of women. She sug~ested the Norwegian the week's listing of activities.
myth Amphytrion! has been meaning.'' He did not begin to write YWCA, a dormitory for single Nor­London is famous for pubs andrewritten against the backdrop of each the play until Christmas, but hesocietal perspective since 
wegian women living and working in restaurants. There are approximatelythought about it so much that he wrotetimes. Coiner has updated London. She menttoned that every 1,600 pubs and they serve various also, but he's writing this for in an lbsen-like fashion-where the Wednesday night a social hour was beers from Guiness Stout to cold lager. 
''characters talked and I! wrote what

reason: to, in his words, 
held. The next Wednesda\ evening I My favorite restaurants were Luba'sthey said.' ! 
slipped out of my flat, tt_ ng not to Bistro, a Russian restaurant near C~iner vtews Amphytrion as a myth As a director, Coiner's view is 
"tutn anti<;~uity on its head!." 
divulge my plans to my two MBA flat Harrod's department store on ~d~~essing one's de_finition; of mas.cu­si"1ple: "I just provide the environ­
mates -Tom Costas and Eduardo de Yeoman's Row and a French restau­ltmt . Hts play reJects tlie classtcal mept to let the actors; use their 
Lascurain. I wanted to protect them rant called Mon Plaisir on Monmouth vie of man as the warrior-hero and en¢rsy. '' . The delight f.or him in 
from the imminent danger. Street in the Theatre District. 
instead concentrates the production workmg wtth young actors ts that they 
I found the Norwegian YWCA in a During our semester break, Mike around what he feels ·ro be an have so much energy that he just lets it 
residential area and walked up the Kohlsdoif, Eduardo de Lascurain and I American conception of the ':hero. happen. 
steps slowly and cautiously. I peeked rented a car and spent 10 days touring I'II leave the analysis of the play for Thus, Amphytn.on '79 is the result 
in the front window and saw 40 y_oung Scotland. ·Driving through the Scottish the review and for the reader who goes ofCoiner's image of both the myth and 
women relaxing and drinking coffee in Highlands in the Scotch distillery to the performance. What is inter­his art. The extent to which he 
a large living room. A lump formed in region, we decided to take a backroad. esting is Coiner's perception of achieved his goals is up to you, the 
my throat and I began to have second We drove through a theatre. He is influenced by the audience. 
thoughts about walking into room full 


The Observer Tuesday, May 1, 1979 -pa~e 9 
rcontinued from page 8) . called Rolliemay and crossed a beautt­ful river. It looked prime for trout and salmo'l. We discovered that the only pers• who might let us fish the river was Mr. Sharp. He w~~ a ~ealthy

=================English gentleman retmng m the Highlands. He described a memorable trip to
London
• • • America and wanted to return the favor of having a nice time in the U.S. 
-----------------by permitting Mike Kohlsdorf to fish without paying the usual $200/fee. Although Mike did not catch a prized salmon, we considered ourselves for­tunate to be able to fish in the 
Highlands of Scotland. Finance], is from Red Wmg, Mtnne-offering financial positions. 
My impressions of t~h~e-iiLioniidiiolniil•isiotiiaii.liH.ieili'"'ieciieiiti.viediilhiliiisill'l'l'l~l~a~,~'.tlll~~~:e••••••••••••••••Ill! 
Utility Commission appeals to Congress for bail-out 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A Pennsylvania regulatory offi­cial, contending that the Three Mile Island nuclear accident will have a "devastating finan­cial impact" on both the plant's owners and its customers, ap­pealed to Con~ress yesterday for a federal batl-out. 
W. Wilson Goode, chairman of the state's Public Utility Commission, urged the U.S. government to rescue the stricken power plant's owners from possible bankruptcy and keep electric bills of Pennsylva­nia consumers from sky­rocketing. 
Testifying before the Senate nuclear regulation subcommit­tee, Goode likened the multi­million dollar proposal to past government loans to Lockheed Aircraft Co. and to New York City. 
He called for ''low interest or no interest'' loans to General Public Utilities Corp., the par­ent firm of Metropolitan Edi­son, which operates the Three Mile Island plant. 
ANd he suggested possible ourtight grants to help defray the estimated $800,000-a-day cost of purchasing replacement fuel. 
Without federal assistance, central Pennsylvania con­sumers face potential rate in­creases of 30 to 40 percent as a result of the nation's worst nuclear accident, Goode testi­fied. 
Goode said that, while his commission is still a month away from a rate-making deci­sion allocating costs of the accident, "it appears the cost will be devastating'' both to consumers and to stockholders. 
He then raised the possibility that "our commissiOn could reach a point where we find the economtc consequences are so heavy they cannot be borne by those parties." 
"We recommend that the federal government recognize 
B & B Storage 
Special Half Price group rate for ' Notre Dame/SMC Students·. 
US 31 North lowest rates in 
the devastating financial impact on the consumers of Pennsylva­nia and the investors in General Public Utilities Corp. in meet­ing the costs of purchasing needed power and incurring additional debt costs,'' Goode testified. 
The subcommitte chairman, Sen. Gary Hart1 D-CO, who has said the total cost of the accident may reach $1 billion, asked the Pennsylvania official if a distinction should be made between buying replacement fuel and actual clean-up opera­tions. 
"We don't see a distinction. To both consumers and stock­holders, a dollar is a dollar," Goode said. 
T F 

experience are rich and varied. I enJoyed developing friendships with the professors and the other students. I leared a tremendous amount, both academically and culturally in the areas of business strategy and analysis
the framework of international busi­
ness and how significant social issues are in the future for people in business. 
In total, spending the four months studying in London in addition to the three semesters here at ND was like getting two MBAs. 
Joel Mjolsness, a prospec#ve May graduate of Notre Da_me [~A 
A..liRDOR 
AG~G!R8 ~ »DRliG~OB8i 
The student playets will be 
holding an otganizational meeting Wednesday 
in the Ncuz at 7 pm. Ah ate welcome! 


Well, let's see. Just take this quiz and add up your correct answers. 
O O "I think I need apassport, but Ican't apply until I know mytravel plans. Apasspo,rt will be one of the last things I get before I go." · 
0 0 "There is no need to Write out adetailed Itinerary of mytravels and leave it wit~ someone else before I go. Theyknow what countries I'm visiting, and the American Em­bassies should have no:trouble finding me if there is a problem here at home." · 
0 0 "Drug laws in countries abroad are alot easier than In the U.S., and normally not well enforced." 
0 0 "No matter what happens, the U.S. Embassy ca~tiail me out of jail or other serious trouble. After all ... I am an American citizen." ! : 
If you answered "FALSE" to all of the above, than you are a seasoned traveler who can probably look forward to a smoolb, successful trlr: abroad. Hyou 1111wered "TR~E" to any or all, please read on. • · 
False. Apply for your passport early. The U.S. passpor. is J.ood for five years and you need not have specific travel plar1s at the time you apply. 
False. Experienced travelers would .not think ot. leaving th~ ~~untry.without advising family, friends or business associates of 111c1r it_meranes -not only for their own protection and weHare. but also for their peace 
ot mind and lor those left at home. 

degree from Luther College [B.A. Psychology and Business Ariministra­lion] in Decorah, Iowa. He work.ed as asystemsanalystforthrt:eyearsforan insurance company tn Owatona, Minnesota before coming to Notre 
Dame. 
Mjolsness was the assistant director to ihe London program under Pro­fessor Thomas Murphy. In addition, 
he has been an assistant wrestlingcoach for the past two years and is attending the Army ROTC program. 
At the #me this article was written Mj_olsness was undecided a.bout which offer to accept from several firms 
False. Drug laws are generally more. severe abroad, with mandatoryprison sentences common for possession of even the smallest amounts of marijuana. Most foreign countries stringently enforce their drug laws. 
False Consular officers cannot provide your bail or aet you out ~f jail. Should you be arrested or run into serious difficulties with tor~l\)nlaw enforcement authorities, you should ~sk that the nearest Amencan Embassy or Consulate be a!Msed immediately of your plight. 
How did you do? If you would like more information. fill out ami mail this coupon for the State Department's fact­filled booklet "Your Trip Abroad" (single copies only). 
·-" Send to·

r------------,
,;~:..::· ·;; Correspondenct' Management Oivls1or. 1I \t~~g;' Bureau of Public Affairs I ·~·~ U.S. D!:partmem ot State
I '(. "" . Was~1in[llon. iJ.C. 20520 I 
~ :~::~:~ me a c~r-~'. kYOUR T:I~:OAD..._ I 
I 1.
Pl~asc Print Adorfllls _ _ ··-.. ------·--.. -I 
l.=..:.::::~-~~-=--J 
Michiana . 
call : 684-11.25 ~ { 681·8833 

-------·---..,t--:t....____... ·-. 
: 
The Observer -Sports Tuesday, May 1, 1979 -page 10 
Mter an impressive finish at behind the host team, Miami major golf tournament since was Tim Saurs, who was the the Purdue Invitational over who won the title with a 760. 1944, taking the top prize at the first place medalist for the
ND golfers the weekend, the fortunes of Ball State was second at 769, Purdue Invitational in West tourney. The senior from the Notre Dame golf team took follwed by B-owling Green, 782. Layfayette, Ind. Pekin, Ill., shot a one under par a turn for the worse yesterday, The less than impressive The Irish shot a 744 as a team 141, three strokes ahead of his as they placed seventh out of 15 finish at the Mid-Amencan was over the 36 holes, well ahead of nearest competitors.
first shine, 
teams at the Mid-American a disappointment for the Irish, their nearest competitors. Ball Also placmg high for Notre Invitational, held at Houston who are still hoping to get a bid State was second with a 752, Dame was Dave Knee, who Woods Golf Course in Oxford, to the NCAA tournament. One followed by Wisconsin, 756, shot a 146 to take fourth. Bill ·Ohio, the home of Miami of positive factor in their favor and Illinois and Purdue, tied at McGuiness was next for the
then sink 
ohio. came last Friday and Saturday, 757. Irish with a 149, followed by The Irish shot a 749, well as Notre Dame won its first Leading the way for the Irish Tom McCarthy (153) and Tim Sachek (156). The next meet for the Irish in their quest fo the NCAA bid will 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli 
be this Friday and Saturday, as they travel to East Lansing, MI, to compete in the Spartan
HOW'S MY FAVORJTF UTTL£ 

Invitational.
MNJliN£ 7?>C>AY? YOU 'AF LOOKIN6 SO NICE ••• ALL 

Seniors to hold outing 

There will be a golf outing for senior men on Monday, May 7, on Notre Dame's Burke Mem­orial Golf Course. Entry forms are available at Senior Bar, or may be obtained from Biv Wadden (288-9988). The $6 en~rance fee covers green fees, trophies, prizes, bag tags and a beer and hotdog banquet afterward at Senior Bar. Play­
ACROSS 29 Stronghold 60 Partner of 24 Sacred bull 
ersare urged to brins. their own 
1 Festival 33 Gentle hand long. 26 Racing 
caddies. Play w1lJ be by
5 White House '.37 Native of: 61 Remove from boats 
foursomes and trophies and
The Daily Crossword 
pet suff. the board · 28 Office 
prizes wilJ be awarded to low
9 Mounds 38 Top cards 62 Be gleeful workers 14 Finished 39 Joined up: 64 Claw 30 Bell sound 
gross and low net with handicap 15 -Bator abbr. 65 Zoological 31 Greenland 
by the calJoway system. No tee 16 Favorite 40 Obstacle suffix base 
entries wilJ be allowed. 

of the past 41 Thatgirl 66 -cost 32 Table props 17 Joyful 42 Soundsof (free) 33 Young lady 19 Transparent contentment 07 Closing 34 Eight: Sp. 
linen 46 High voice words 35 Presiden­
20 Comp. pt. 48 Janitor: 68 Courses: tial asst. 21 Begged abbr. abbr. 36 Can. prov. 22 -dictum 49 Irregularly 69 Obtains 40 Relaxes 
• • . Irish 
23 Before notched 42 Fruitful cumulus or 51 Give­DOWN spots 
[cot~tinued from page 12] 

sphere (cause) 1 Stabs 43 Son of Seth 
cage to put Ashland in front 
25 These: Sp. 55 Capacitance 2 Stop, sea-44 Wordsof 
7-6..

27 Ulyofthe units man style discovery 
One more time, the Irish
opera 58 --do-well 3 Outcast 45 Agnew 4 Skill 47 Logic 
came back. While Ashland's 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
5 Distance 50 Makeinto 
defense became disorganized, 
measure law 

Mike Caron worked free in front 
6 Ulyplant 52 Make
ElAN AN S E R M RIO 
of Blieberg. Paul Rizzo hit
7 Diploma jubilant
""i""'i"" 

HOWAND'IJ:l,.E.Ji IR 
Caron's suck perfectly and it
word 53 Blemish 

was 7-7 with two minutes to
1-P E E R S S l I T •• 8 Reply: abbr. 54 Others: Sp. ADHOC.S I N~SCOFF 
play.

9 Springs 55 Greek 
specialty cheese 

Ashland refused to give in.
G A I T~ I l.A P I A 
10 Pope's"­56 Biblical
ART.SAMP~t'O.All 
Midfielder Jim McKenna, who
M E T H P A l 0 A M S E l 
to Abelard" name for 

had been neutralized for most
ASHEH •• EG.NESTS 
11 Mineen-old Syria 
of the afternoon, cranked up a
1-E 
R 0 S R 0 S I 

H••• 
trance 57 Breathing 12 Rug nap sound 
blast from 25 feet out that 13 Wiseman 59 Robert-
eluded Tallmadge at the 13:13 18 Sinclair 62 1812 crisis 
mark. 

22 Pertaining 63 Emulate 
Notre Dame called a timeout 
5/1/79 to the ear Xanthippe 
to set up a clear and a shot with 55 seconds left, but McKenna picked off a pass and Ashland held the ball until Berg scrambled free just before the 




Both matches 6-3 
Irish netters win twice • • .Neal 
by Michael Ortman Sports W n'ter 
After the Notre Dame tennis team had its eight-match win­ning streak snapped earlier this season, Coach Tom Fallon said, "If you get one streak broken, you just have to go out and start another one.'' 
That's exactly what his team has done. This past weekend, the Irish netters ran their most recent string of wins to three with convincing 6-3 victories over Michigan State and East­ern Michigan. 
Mother Nature wasn't very cooperative as both matches had to be finished in the ACC after beginning on the Courtney Courts. The rains came just 20 minutes into Friday's match with the Spartans while Sun­day's contest was forced inside after the completion of five of the six singles matches. ' 
Against Michi~an State, the Irish could do little wrong as they won four singles and two doubles matches. The three losses were in close, three-set matches. 
Mark Hoyer. Notre Dame's number-one singles player who has been plagued by three-set losses all year, managed to win one in the decisive set, beating Spartan Steve Klemm, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3. "It sure is nice to win one of those for a change," remark­ed Hoyer. 
Freshman Tom Robison of Notre Dame had his 11-match winning streak snapped on Friday~, d~opping a three-setter to]eff Wtckman, 4-6, 6-3, 6-1. 
"I sure would like to have seen that match played out­side,'' said Spartan coach Ellis Treatman. "I think it might have been a different story." Treatman's squad beat the Irish last year 10 East Lansing by an identical 6-3 score. 
"I think we could have beaten them anyplace," said Irish captain Mark Trueblood. "We have a much better team this year than last." · 
On Sunday, the Irish were equally impressive, once again wmning four singles and two doubles matches. A~ain, the three defeats were m three sets. 
Number-two Carlton Harris was awesome, posting a 6-0, 6-0 drubbing of Dave Chandler. In his two weekend matches, Harris outscored his opponents, 24-5. 
The Irish will take their 16-8 record to Kalamazoo today 
for a meeting with Western Michigan. Notre Dame will be trying to avenge last year's 8-1 loss at the hands of the Bron­cos. The netters will have to 
Lacrosse club 

All members of the A and B lacrosse teams are asked to attend a mandatory meeting today at 4:30p.m. in the' locker room. 
win each of their four remaining matches if they are to become only the third team in Notre Dame history to amass a 20-win season and the first in five years. 
' 
NOTRE DAME 6-EASTERN MICHIGAN 3 
Slngln 
No.1-Rick Shaheen (EM) def. Mark Hoyer, 3-6, 6-1, 6-3. No. 2 • Carlton Harris (N D) def. Dave Chandler, 6-Q, 6-0. No. 3 -Ken Prebble (EM) def. Herb Hopwood, 6-4, 5-7, 7-6. No. 4 Mark Trueblood (ND) def Greg Cheesewright, 6-2, 3-6, 6-1. No. 5 -Tom Hartzell (ND) def. Cameron Greig, 6-3, 7-6. No.6-Tom Robison (ND) def. Rich Parsell, 6-3, 6-1. 
Doubles No. 1 • Hoyer and Harris (ND) def. Chandler and Prebble, 6-1, 6-1. No. 2 -Hopwood and Trueblood (ND) def. Shaheen and GreiQ. 6-1, 6-4. No. 3 • Cheesewnght and Parsell (EM) def Hartzell and Bill Pratt, 6-3, 2-6, 6-3. 
NOTRE DAME 6-MICHIGAN STATE 3 
Slngln 
No. 1-Mark Hoyer (ND) def. Steve Klemm, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3. No. 2 -Carlton Harris (ND) def. Matt Sandier, 6-3. 6-2. No.3-Herb Hopwood (ND) def. Scott King, 6-2. 6-2. No. 4 · Frank Willard (MSU) def. Mark Trueblood, 6-2, 3-6, 6-3. No.5-Tom Hartzell (ND) def. Mike Klemm, 6-3, 6-4. No. 6 -Jeff Wickman (MSU) def. Tom Robison, 4-6, 6-3, 6-1. 
Doubles No.1.-Hoyer and Harris (ND) def. S. Klemm and King, 7-6, 7-6. No. 2 -Sandier and Wickman (MSU) def. Hopwood and Trueblood. 6-3, 4-6, 6-4. No. 3 -Hartzell and Bill Pratt (ND) del. Willard and M. Klemm, 3~6, 6~4, 6-4. 

[continued from page 12] 
awards were: Seniors Carol Lally (basketball), Karen Lacity (fencing), Mary Anne Dooley (field Hockey), and freshman Peggy Walsh (tennis). 
The emotional highlight of the eveing came early during the presentations. Astrid Hod­vedt, Coordinator of Women's Athletics, presented a token of the women's appreciation to Domine ] . "Nafpy'' Napoli­tano, Director o Non-Varsity Athletics. Napolitano will be resigning the post effective June 1, and Hodvedt bid him a tearful farewell. 
Over the last seven years, Nappy has taken the women's program under his wing and helfed it grow. After reading hal of her presentation, Hod­vedt could not continue and turned the microphone over to Nappy. He finished by sayinR;, 
• • Crew
' 

[continuedfrom page 12) 
morning's heats to the finals. The women's frosh four fin­ished fifth out of six crews behind two excellent Wisconsin crews, Minneapolis, and Nebraska. 
The crew travels to Marietta, Ohio, this weekend for the season finale, the Mid-Amer­ican Rowing Championships. 
"You love me and I love all of you.'' The assembled athletes responded with a warm round of applause. 
At the conclusion of the awards ceremony, Sharon Petro announced her resignation as coach of the tennis team, effective at the end of this season. She will retain her posttton as head basketball caoch. Jory Segal has been named as Petro's replacement. 
Petro then concluded the program by saying: "Men have li:ved in a Notre Dame tradition; now it's time for Notre Dame women to create a tradition for themselves. " 

Badin wins grid title 
Badin Hall had little trouble with Regina Hall, winning the ND-SMC women's football championship 22-0 on Satur­day. 

After Julie Walters gave Badin the lead with a seven­yard touchdown run, Donna Schaefer ran the second half kickoff back for a touchdown to give the south-quadders a 14-0 lead. . Jane Politiski connected with Chris Burns for another touch­down, and then hit]ulie Breed for the two-point conversion to close the scoring. ' 
Classifieds  All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m .. two days prior to the issue in whiCh the ad is run. The Observer office will accept c1ass1lieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All cla~>ilieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the ma1l  
LOST: One pair glasses. Near ballfield at Angela and Eddy. Call 289~3187.Notices LOST: Dunlop Maxiply tennis racquet, ATTENTION white Wilson head cover at Angela Lake of the Woods Camp for girls in Athletic Fac., any information to its Kalamazoo, needs office help, a Water wherabouts, call Teresa 4722. Salety Instructor, agymnastics instructor and kitchen help tor the summer. Write LOST: At Minnesota Club picnic on to: Green Field · 1 large baseball mitt Call Laurence Seger Pete 8367. 1765 Maple St Northfield, IL 60093 MORRISSEY LOAN FUND All Morrissey loans must be repaid by Monday, May 7th. Those not repaid wil be turned over to Student Accounts. For Rent Penalty will be charged. Rooms $40 mo., summer or tall. Near TYPING. IBM Selectric. Pickup and rides. 233·1329. delivery. 277·0296. Nice house for rent this summer. 4 R.N.'s · bedroom, quiet neighborhood. 10 min· Nationwide vacancies and anticipated utes from campus. Just across the river. vacancies at this VA Medical Center for Call 6637 for details. Staff Registered Nurses and graduating Nurse Technicians. Excellent salary and Two bedroom apt .. partially furnished, fringe benefits commensurate with male grad students only. 234-7617. experience and education--notably 26 working days vacation and 13 days sick Apartment tor rent, one bedroom, diningleave per year in addition to nine paid room, kitchen and bath. Fully furnished, holidays. Interested applicants should inexpensive, will accomodate two. Avail· write or call the Personnel Officer at the able now for summer and next semester. VA Medical Center. Marion, IN 46952 289·1380. (317·674·3321, extension 115). Lost & Found Wanted OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year round. LOST: 25 yr. old ND jacket worn by my Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. father. Blue cotton jacket with yellow ND All fields, $500 ·$1200 monthly. emblem. Name tag M. Root in lining. Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free Call 8276 il found info·Write: IJC, Box 52·14. Corona Del Mar. CA 92625. LOST: Keychain with SMC ID. Desperately needed!l 1 If lound, call WANTED: If you are a University of Rhonda. 41·4449. Michigan-bound graduate student seek­ing apartment-mate for coming year,FOUND: Chain bracelet in front of Zahm please call Jackie at SMC -4562. Friday. Call to identify, Phil 8761. Need two male housemates to share nice LOST: Gold class ring St. Thomas house. Cars useful. Call 289-9498. Aquinas High School. Call Mary Ellen 272~5423. WANTED: Person(s) to rent 1or 2 bdrm. apartment at Campus View tor Fall '79 LOST: 1. Pendleton hat, size: medium. only. Call Mike at 234·3574 after 6:00 color: beige. Lost at Senior Bar or vicinity p.m.Thursday mght. Call Dick 8544 or Mark 8540. Addressers wanted Immediately! Work at home··no experience necessary--excel­LOST: A blue racketball racket lost lent pay. Write American Service, 8350 before Easter break on either ND·SMC Park Lane, Suite 127, Dallas, TX 75231. campus. Please call 4606. WANTED: Driver to take car to San FOUND: ND class ring in Library Aud. Diego. Contact Sister Miriam. 284-4022 Call trene (6733) to identify. tor terms.  Summer Work Offer: Independent people needed for Sales work tor the summer. Reflective Arts sells bar and old-fashioned art mirrors by using the old-time street vendor approach and we sell directly to stores. Excep· tional profits for enthusiastic people. Call Craig Imler at 277·4005 for more informa­tion. WANTED: 2convertible couches for next year. Fair to good condition. Reasonable price. Call Tom 8676 • Jeff 8659. ATTENTION CHICAGO BEAR FANS You can earn up to $500 watching their regular season games next fall. Sent tor application: the Football Research Corporation. 6 E. 45th Street. New York, NY 10017 WNDU needs student to drive van for pick·ups and deliveries, mail. etc. 8·5 Mon. thrus Fri. Start mid May thru summer. Call Mrs. Alleman 233·7111. WANTED: Used typewriter, call Mary 287·6659, early evenings. For Sale FOR SALE: '69 Dodge Coronet, p.s., a.c., New Everything! $375. Tony 8842. Senior must sell refrigerator $25 -Call 7820 Ask for Pete. Brother Elec. Port. typewriter. Low price. Call Randy 1062. Acharming Cape Cod with enclosed front porch, Northshore neighborhood, bright modern kitchen, living room with fire· place, dining room. two large bedroom upstairs, remodeled bath, private back~ yard, one-car garage, maintenance free exterior. For sale by Owner. Please clal 7308 or 287~1972. '66 VW in very good condition. Asking $600. negotiable. 289~9498. T-shirt closeout! We busted Slat Lake City but you can still get your Salt Lake City or Bust T~shirt before you go home! Only $2 apiece or 6 tor $10! Help me get rid of them! Contact Tio at 4684 aftr er 8 pm.  Harris tweed sports jacket Size 38~40. Senior-Alumni Picnic May 5th, 11-1 atAs new. Original price $120. Sale price Stepan Center. Beer 'n Brauts for the$40 or nearest offer. Phone 232~0743. class of '79. FOR SALE: Easy chairs and armchair, bookcase. Call 8954 after 11. Patrick,Must sell queen· size sofa-bed, like new, I meant to send you daisies to tell you$300, 272~6517 after 9. that as a brother you're one of the best! Vicki Deal of the decade complete. See the shaving of Fr. Dan Jenky. Where? In front of Dillon. When? Wed., May 2, high noon. l-bag & Jeff,Personals Good luck on MCAT'sJI! Stan, Good luck with your MCAT's Saturday. I know you'll do great! After they areAI, finally over, you can start thinking of thisI wish I cold be with you on this special summer down the shore!day. I love you I Happy Birthday. love, Nancy (your little sister at SMC)aH my live, Linda Please support the Vite-Mudjer ticket"Floyd", Vote Right, Vote Vital!I love you too ... tor McCandless officers."Avenging Annie" Oooh the Doptrotters! ! ! Bill and Don, Oooh the Mets 1!!Sorry we bothered you Friday. We Oooh New Jersey! ! ! didn't show Saturday because we got a ride home · sorry. To make up we're Patti M,inviting you and all your friends to the Your voice is beautiful. Santa LuciaObserver party Saturday at Guiseppe's. loves you. See you In Rio!P&B Bevo & CamperP.S. Can P. still have the poster? Happy May! Guess who has a birthday?Mtt, Thanks for not showing Satu. To the Ind. who "Liberated" my yellowP&B Jansport back pack from the Rock on Fri.P.S. Mike, you ar sao smoooth. 4/27 -keep the pack and calculator but please deposit the books and notes at theJeannine and Lisa: Rock or South Dlnlng Hall.Don't miss the yello submarine coupon in this issue for a great sandwich. Can Don't call Diane Vosberg today at 6952also arrange golf lessons. and wish her a happy birthday because she's a throat and Is studying tor anVote -May 2 ­Wilson & Geegan for organic testMcCandless Hall Officers. Great job, Beef, Slammy, Rout,die, Stash and Tom. Thanks: Jimmy, J.P., Boston, Dan, and Fr. Jenkyl Dam Dillon thanks for the support when we needed It the most the Committee You wild and crazy Floridian. Thanks for the terrific time Saturday night. 1 am glad all went peachy keen. Hessy·Baby  




Crew squads 

Tuesday, May 1, 1979 -page 12 fare well at Madison
S]2orts 
In their strongest showing in the seven-year history of the Midwest Rowmg Champion­ships, the Notre Dame crew 
Irish drop second straight in lacrosse 
by Gary Grassey 
especially during the initial 30 Passes began to find targets, moving away from the ball,'' took second place in the
Sports Wn'ter 
mmutes of play. but again and again the O'Leary added. Brian Berg women's lightweight eight, The first half featured co­defenses rose to the occasion. then scored the second of his third in the men's junior varsity After rallying to tie the game 
captian John Romanelli dirtn­Tim Walsh began Notre three goals at 13: 17 to give eight, and fourth in the men'son seven separate occastons, ing Notre Dame's offense with Dame's most heated pressure Ashland the lead entering the varsity eight and women'sthe Notre Dame lacrosse club 
two assists, the last one finding on Ashland by hitting attack­. final stanza. lightweight four . 
finally fell prey to a talented Tim Walsh to tie the game at man Nick Gehring for their lone Midfielder Carl Lundblad All four crews rowed wellAshland College varsity squad, 3-3 shortly before intermission. f~oor hreak score of the day at becamt-lhe sixth Irish player to against the stiffest competition9-7, on a late fourth quarter 
Chris Schmitz paced Ashland, 7:4-1 of the third quarter, score, with 5:05 gone in the in the Midwest, includingsurge last Saturci;.>y afternoon. 
scoring two of his three goals. krwtnng the score at 5-5. 1ou.:-th '-)_uarter, as he netted a Wisconsin, Purdue, Minnesota, The loss was th~ second Notre Dame was stopped on Tm!T.ediately, the Irish Tim Michels feed during a Nebraska, and Wichita State atstraight for the Irish ;;l'rer 
four man-up opportunities, regained possession and man-up situation. a regatta which saw 800 compe­compiling a record of 8-0. 
including a two-man advan­seemed to be gaining momen­titors representing 25 schools
The game was tightly con­Two minutes later, Schmitz 
tase, mostly on the strength of tum. Blieberg, though, and rowing clubs. 
tested from the opening face­retalliated with a diving stuff of
BIIeberg' s netminding. stopped Romanelli from in close 
off. Neither team was able to Berg's pass from behind the Course records were set ·in 
Each squad appeared and the Irish attackers began to the men's varsity eight andsustain offensive pressure for sharper in the second · half. stand still. "We stopped [continued on page 10) women's freshman eight on along intervals. Irish coach Rich sunny day with perfectly flatO'Leary felt that both teams water and a slight crosswirr N!
played superb defense, but the 
Napp_y honored Lake Wingta in Madison, Wis. 
Ashland players "were a little The men's varsity etghr,quicker overall. They got back stroked by Paul Devitt, rowedwell and kept us from (fast) their best race of the season,breaking." 
Neal speaks oftrained mind 
trailing national powerhouseThe break is a key to the Irish Wisconsin by one boat lengthattack. However, the Ashland (60 feet) at the half way point.
defenders kept Notre Dame by Mark Hanttuksela scope today." Her speech was ifyou are going to be a success­The crew' : fourth-place finishoff-balance, forcing a number Sports Writer centeted around the importance ful athlete." 
was Notre Dame'~ best ever in
of bad passes. O'Leary felt, of the mind tn athletics. · A noted authority on the the varsity eight event.
"We didn't pass as sharply as "There is no greater glory for ''I have come to be aware of psychology of sports, and the 
The women's lightweight
we have been." Whenever the a man while he lives, than to the many changes in the phil­author of five sports-related eight, stroked by te~m captainIrish offense had room to achieve by hand and by foot, osophy of sports. The major books, Neal includf'rl in l,er Kathy Dilworth, and racingoperate, Ashland goalie Pete and also by excellence of the difference between today's speech six mental steps that a together for the first time, wasBlieberg (ranked #1 in NCAA mind.'' These words ended the coaches, and those around in person must take in the process overpowered by a seasonedDivision II for saves to goals guest commentary of Patsy my playing days, is the total of training the mind. She Nebraska crew but was victor­percentage) was magn_ificent, Neal, well-known speaker and dedicanon to winning and the praised the Notre Dame Book­ious over the Minnesota Boatas he made 21 saves clinician, who was featured at over-stressage of the physical store Tournament as a sporting Club and Michigan en route toAshland, thoul!h 11ad las• ni!"ht'<; WTomeo's Sports skills needed to play the role of activity which encourages the their second place finish. 
almost as many }'w.::c1ns with Night banquet ?.t the Athletic athlete, and the lack of stress "come to play for the fun of 
The women's lightweight
'.Totre Dame's o ::ngy defense anu Convucauon Center. on the mental aspects of sports. playing" attitude. She then four, also stroked by Dilworth, corps of Jimmy Ray Williams, Neal, a former AAU All­I don't mean to condemn win­concluded this segment of her were three lengths behinclTohn Vercruysse, Maurice American basketball player and ning--winning makes its own speech by saying that "Playing Nebraska after a poor ftrst )00-Breshlihan, and goalie Mark coach at Brevard College in contributions to a person's a sport ought to be a joy, not a meters, but fought back toTallmadge (15 saves). Ash­North Carolina, addressed the mind. I do mean to emphasize job; participatin~ in sports within three-fourths of a length
land's norm:>'lv pin.'oiot stick­group as a person who was the fact that you have to train ough~, to be a pnvilege, not a in the next 1000 meters. Thework was noticeably .1indered, ''told to shut up by my horo-both your body and your mind task. 
~earn fell back to fourth place at 
After Neal's speech, aw:=trds the finish line. were presented to vanous The men's junio-.,.,r<;ir•· members of co-ed, club, and eight, with seven first-year varsity sports, and to special oarsmen and first-yeo.. ._._.. interest groups. Highlighting swain Ed Walsh, was stroked to the awards ceremony was the an impressive third place finish presentation of four student by Fred Fredrickson in a strong athlete awards, given by Jim race. Groves, President of the Notre In other events, the men's Dame Club of St. Joseph Val­frosh eight and women's open ley. The recipients of these four failed to advance from the 
[continued on page 11] [continued on page 11) 
Ticket reservation begins 
Potenti t. seniors interested Students wishing to sit to­in reservi · -a season ticket for gether must reserve their the 1979-8v 'Notre Dame basket­tickets consecutively. Students ball campaign are reminded to are reminded that the order of report to the second floor ticket ticket reservation is the order in windows at the Athletic and which the tickets will be dis­Convocation Center before 4:30 tributed at a later date. The this afternoon. Ticket Office will not accept 
Next year's juniors will re­more than four IDs from any port on Wednesday, Graduate one person. and Law students on Thursday, This reservation period is not and sophomores on Friday. a necessary period of payment. Issuing hours on each day are Students wishing to be billed from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., over the summer will be billed noon hour included. at that time. 



