
SMCcandidates respond-page 8 

VOL. XIII, NO. 101 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and samt mary's MONDAY, MARCH 12, 1979 
In SMCelections 
Com.m.ittee rules on violation allegations 
by Pam Degnan 
Alleged campaign violations were discussed at an election committee hearing lait Monday night, an unnamed source revealed. However, all allegations were dropped because they were only "misinterpretations of policies." 
According te the source, the ticket in question misunderstood certain campaign prcedures that dealt with ''formalities in declaring their nommation. '' 
Later, a comm!ttee he_aring consisting of Mary Laverty, Director of Student Affa1rs, Gail Darragh, Student Body President and election commissioners, Cari Trousdale and Noreen Bracken, investigated the nature of the violations and deemed them '' misintc rpretations of policies.'' 
No campaign rules were broken .according to Laverty. If they had been, direct action would have been taken against the ticket in question. When asked if the violations were misinterpretations, Laverty answered, "Yes that is what they were." 

Carter,Beginhold talks ; fail to reach settlement 
The Notre Dame Orchestra performed last night in Washington Holt. [photo by Mike Bigley] 


JERUSALEM (AP)-President Jimmy Carter and Prime Minis­ter Menachem Begin sat down for a state dinner Sunday night after five hours of crucial talks which their aides continued while the leaders dined. 
No settlement in the quest for an Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty was reported. But Begin summoned his Cabinet for a post-banquet session to decide on treaty terms. 
The prime m1mster said Carter would meet with the Cabinet today to receive its decision. 
"We have not yet reached a final agreement," Carter said as he emerged from the prime minister's office after the talks. 
"Important issues remain to be resolved," he added. "All of us are dedicated to continue wirh our best efforts to reach success. " 
Carter and Begin adjourned to attend the state dinner, where they heard a concert by Isaac Stern. Their advisors continued to meet into the night in the prime minister's office. 
Associate White House press secretary Jerrold Scheerer said they were discussing ''ideas for resolving the differences." Those at the session included 
U.S. Secretary ofState Cyrus R. Vance and Israeli Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan. 
Israeli police said they arrested St"veral demonstrators who gathered at a crossroads where Carter's motorcade was to pass en route to the banquet. 
Police said a limousine was pelted with eggs, but a White House spokesman said it was not Carter's, adding the presi­dent encountered no protesters. There was an unconfirmed report the limousine was part of a dummy motorcade sent out after police learned of the gathenng crowd. 
After his talks with Carter, Begin said he assumed Vance would tly to Cairo to mtorm Egyptian President Anwar Sadat of Israel's decision. 
''There are serious problems and we are dealing with them very seriously,'' the prime min­ister said. 
Th,e president described the talks as friendly, frank and thorough. Begin said they were "very serious and also, I sup­

pose,  very  friendly  as  the  
president said.''  
It  was  understood  the  
American delegation  was  con­ 

cerned about the situation and feels that prospects for a treaty are still very much up in the air. 
In an Israeli television inter­view, Deputy Prime Minister Yigael Yadin said, "We are at a very decisive stage and in a week or two'we will know if and when the peace treaty will be signed.'' 
He said Carter had made imrortant progress on his visit to Israel ' 'even if he has not achieved everything yet. The rest can be dealt wtth. '' 
Y a din said, "The ball is in Egypt's court." 
The second round of discus­sions between the two leaders occurred after the president attended memorial services. for Holocaust victims and the founder of Zionism. Their first session was held over a private dinner Saturday night, shortly after Carter arrived in Israel. 
Begin and Sadat reportedly were still divided on the issue of self-rule for the 1.1 million Palestinians on the West Band and Gaza Strip. 
The Israeli and U.S. delega­tions held a long session, then broke for separate meetings to evaluate the negotiations, and ~eturned for another joint meet· mg. 

The Associated Press learned, meanwhile, that prep­arations were being made to extend Carter's visit here until 
[conlit,led on page 3] 
AsSLFends 
Poet Reedpresents UJorks 
by Laura Larimore Senior StaffReporter 
Adressing a less than capa­city crowd, black author and poet Ishmael Reed presented several of his works Friday night in the Library Auditorium as part of last week's Sopho­more Literary Festival. 
Reed began with an excerpt from his novel Flight to Canada. Based on slave narra­tives of the 19th century, the selection was a letter from a runaway slave to his master. 
In the same mood, the writer continued with selections from his newest volume of poetry, Secretary to the Spirits, recent­ly published in Nigeria. 
The poems featured a subtle infusion of humor, character­istic of all Reed's rieces. a, he linked the origina poetic feel­ing of American slaves, as well as ideas from the Negro peole ofSouth America and Africa,· to a modern sense of language and viewpoint. 
Reed changed his tone slight­ly with a poem inspired by the historical figure of Rasputin. He commented that the murder '.lf Rasputin by the aristocracy was ''A mark of success of the peasant." 
Returning to modern times, the poet delivered a readin~ of ''Sixth St. Corporate War' in which he compared men to rats living in 100,000 rat's nests and driving to work in Mercedes­Benz cars. Throughout the poem, based on his exper­iences, Reed constructed images based on animal meta­phors that he could trace back to African origins. Reed interjected a note of huinor with the short piece satirical view of the modern entitled ''Mystery First Lady.'' scene: "These days you have The poem reads, in its entirety, to have a Phd; yesterday all you "Franklin Pierce's wife never had to do was dance." came downstairs, but never Reed was previously as Notre came upstairs either." Dame for the 1969 SLF. He was 
The poet concluded his pre­awarded the Pulitzer Prize sentation with several more nomination for poetry in 1973, poems, all comments on his life among his many recognitions.
and experiences using the same He is also noted for his teachingimagery found in his other ability, and now serves on the works. The final selection, faculty of the University of "Tea Dancer Turns 39," gave a California at Berkeley. 



Fitzgeraldreads Homer 
by Barb Lang henry Executive Editor 
Poet and translator Robert S. Fitzgerald concluded the Sophomore Literary Festival Saturdax night with readings from his translations of Homer's !Iliad and The Od:yssey. 
Fitzgerald noted that the Homeric tradition was one of purely oral compostiion and involved works of imagery ''that were not originally literary at all -that were preliterary.'' He noted that the languagt" of these works is highly dramatic, and described it as metered, measured and musical. Commonly named, they were songs, he added. 
Two selections from The Odyssey, one from Book V centering on Odysseus' departure form the nymph Calypso, and the other describing Odysseus' contest against Penelope's suitors, high­lighted Fitzgerald's reading. He also read from the beginning of the !Iliad. 
Fitzgerald expressed pleasure with being at Notre Dame again and renewing old associations he "is quite fond of." Twenty-two years ago, while he was en~aged m the translation of The Odyssey, Fitzgerald was teachmg at Notre Dame. 
. Before Fitzgeral~ t~ok the st~~e, Ted Twardzi~, who ha~ set Fttzgerald's poem Wmter Song to song, played 1t on the ·ptano, while Chalon Mullins sang the words. Fitzgerald stressed that he was delighted by the preformance anc explained that it was a ··bonus" he had not expected. 
Larry Siems, Festival chairman, commented that he was "very satisfied with the Festival" and noted that the turnout was greater than he had expected. 


News in brief 

. Monday, March 12, 1979 -page 2 














Vietnamese 'boatpeople ' 
Despite Khorneini 

jump in bids offreedom 
Islamic council runs country 
HONG KONG (AP)--About 100 Vietnamese "boat people'· TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -Its Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, the Bazargan' s efforts to estab­jumped overboard into Hong Kong harbor Sunday and membership is a mys1tery, but Revolutionary Council has been l~h the authority of the provi­~ozens ofothers ran their old junks aground in nearby Macao its powers are immense. As the true center of power here s10nal ~overoment have beenm desperate and dangerous btds for freedom. Those in Hong Iran's . revolution gropes for despite the appointment of a undermmed by the revolution­Kong had been stranded with about 3,000 other Vietnamese stability and a new order to provisional government by ary committees to the extentaboard the rusting freighter Skyluck for 33 days. Mter bring peace, the authority Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. that he has now reportedlyleaping into the harbor's waters, they faced a one-mile swim wielded by the Islamic Revolu­The stern-faced religious offered his resignation toto shore. About 50 made it to the British colony's outlying tionary Council is the real glue leader almost certainly heads Khomeini, who is said to haveLamma Island, two were admitted to a hospital robe treated holding the nation together. the Council. And the council's rejected it. •for exhaustion and the rest were picked up by launches and Its members authorize ap~,>arent determination to ''The committees and radical sent back to the freighter, the government said .. 
arrests, set up revolutionary mamtain supreme power dur-groups with their intederence couns, confirm death senten­ing an increasingly uncertain and disturbances have made it ces, organize security and over­stage of the revolution has impossible for the government
Young Palestiniansprotest 
see food distribution through brought the provisional govern-to operate,'' the 70-year-old
. 
hundreds of revolutionary ment of Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan said recently. ''They committees operating 1through­Bazargan into confrontation persecute people, they arrest
Egyptian representation 
out Iran. with Khomeini-who appointed people, they issue orders, they Since the bloody wec~kend of him in the first place. [continued on page 14] street battles in T ehlran one
RAMAil.AH, Occupied West Bank (AP)--Young Palestin­
month ago finally toppled Shah 

ians blocking roads and chanting "PLO! PLO! PLO!" at 
~----------------·
1 any unOeQc;Qab L•vmc; orr-campus 1
Israeli troops staged protests in a half-dozen West Bank 
towns Sunday as Prestdent Carter, just a few miles away in 
JudoOub

Jerusalem, tried to mediate in an Egyptian-Israeli eeace. In 
lnexc YeaR 1s €l1c;1ste to Be the 1979-8<.1
Ramallah, a hotbed of Palestinian dissent seven mdes north 
of Jerusalem, an Israeli armored car smashed throu~h a 
stops practice I I
barrier of stones and oil drums put up by young Palestmian 
women. "Yasser Arafat represents us, not Sadat!" shouted 
I I
The Notre Dame Judo Club is contradicted among the West Bank's 700,000 Palestinians ­
one woman who stood by, echoing a sentiment seldom 
cancelling all formal practice I I that Egypt's President Anwar Sadat cannot negotiate a true 
sessions until after break. Mideast peace for them. 
Practices will resume Mon­I I day after break and will be held 
I I
thereafter on each Monday and 

Wednesday from 7 to 8:30p.m. 1 appt1cat1ons availaBle tn the I
Vegetable oilpollution 
(not from 7:30 to 8:30, as 
reported in Friday's Observer). 

I Stub€nt (jOV€ROffi€flt orr•ce I
AU practice sessions will be held in the south gym of the second floor of the Rockne I I Memorial. 1 2n0 ~looR laJ:oRtune I 
causes minorproblem 
DANBURY, Conn. (AP)--Crews are working to clean up an 
For information about mem­

oil spill in Lake Kenosia, but there's little chance of bership in the club or about 1 maRch 16 1 envit:_onmental damage. The pollutant is vegetable oil ­
either corn or soybean oil. Perhaps thousands of gallons additional workouts, call Brian 1 foR ~uRtheR Oeta1ls contact John f=itzpatRICk I
(8477) or Curt (8721).

leaked into the lake recently from the Caruso Products Inc. 
plant here. Frank Leo, son of Caruso President Salvatore 
I 7668-277-2874 
Leo, said the company didn't know that the oil had reached the lake until last week, when the lake sutface began to thaw. Michael Capuano, a field inspector for the state Department 


SMCtohold ·----------------~ 
of Environmental Protection, said the oil is both edible and 
biodegradable, and thus poses only a minimal environmental 
elections 

Icelandic
threat. 
Elections for Saint Mary's 

announces
Student Body President, Vice

Weather 
President of Student Affairs, 
and Vice President of Ac:admeic 

thebest deal 
Partly sunny and a little warmer today. Highs in the low to 
Affait:s will be held today. Polls 20s. Partly sunny and warmer tomorrow with highs mid 40s 
mid 30s. Fair and not so cold at night. Lows in the low to mid 
will be open in LeMans lobby 

toEurope:
from 10 a.m. -5 p.m. and in Cooler Thursday and Friday. Low mid 30s to mid 40s 
to around 50. Mild with a chance of showers Wednesday. 
the dining hall from 5-6 p.m. Wednesday cooling to the mid teens and 20s by Friday 
All students including Seniors 
are urged to vote. Ifnecessary,morning. 

a run-off election is scheduled 
for Wednesday. 

s 

The Observer 
Night Editor: Margie 
Brassit

12:U pm--MASS, fr. robert griffm, LA FORllJNE BAIL­
Asst. Night Editors: Jim

ROOM 
Rudd, Mary Pat EUis 
Copy Readers: BPS, Mike

;:30 pm--COILOQUIUM, "eucharist and politics," rev. 
Ridenour, Diane WiJso"

eoda mcdonagh, c.s.c., nd, sponsored by theology dept.; 
Layout Staff: Ryan Ver

UB. LOUNGE 
berkmoes, Neil O'Brien 
Editorial Layout: Rod

4: 15 pro--BIOLOGY SEMINAR, "ecological studies in 
Beard 

c~~ess s~amps.: ~utri.ent cycling & ecological modeling," 
Features Layout: Greag

william JDttscli, ill. mstttute of technology, GALVIN AUD. 
Hedges · 
Sports Layout: Ray O'brien4:30 _pm--LECTIJRE, "the hydrophobic effect & the 

Tr.eists: Kin~ Co1111ey, Beth

orgaruzation ofliving matter,'' prof. Charles tanford, duke u,, 
Willard, Bill SWtjt, .IG'tie

sponsored by the chem. dept., 123 NIEUWLAND 
Brehl . 
Early Morning Typist: Ki'm

7, 9:15, & 11:30 pm--FILM, "catch-22," ENGR. AUD. 
t
Co1111ey 

Airlines, 6 East Monroe St.. Cbicago, llinois60fm. Or call toll 
free 800-223-5390. . I
Day Editor: Kate KiJintdie

7:30 pm--BASKE1BAIL, annual od men's basketball 
Ad Layout: ]oe.Murph31 

Please ~lend me: 0 Atnebble of lcelancic's flights &om I
· banquet, ACC 
Chicago, New Yofkilnd ~asbington. 0 Your brochuce oo Europea Fly/Drive aad Fly/Rd Toun. I 
7:30pm--ART GAlLERY OPENING, display ofceramics and 
Photographer: Mike Bigley 
I
.The Observer (USPS 59J 921~) is 

N~~·--------------------------­
2d work, ISIS GAlLERY 
published Monday througb Frida'r ex· 
I 
cept 4urlng eum and vac~tian peri1ads. 

ADD~------~-----------------­
I
The Observer is pubUshed by the 
ZIP______

7:30 pm--FILM, "mysteries of the organism," sp&dr Jl3 
cnY------~-----STATE
students of Notre Dame and ·saint 
t

film series, WASH. HAll . 
Mary's College. Subscriptions m11y be 

1

purchaatd far S20 per year [S1C per 9 pm--THEATRICAL PERFORMANCE, "the american 
semester) from The Observer. P.O. btl)( 

ICELANDIC I 
0, Notre bame, Indiana 46556. Second

dream,'' LA FORlUNE BASEMENT 
25 yeaBoflow lirfares to Europe. I
class p=e paid, Notre Dame, In­diana . 

~---~---~~~-------J
The Observer Is t member at the • A1141Cilltd Preu. All ripradUictitn 

~df--RECONC1LlATION SERVICE, BADIN HALL 

rltbti·lflt'ISimtl. 


~ :\·:. <· -~-. ·. :· ·­

': ... lii}i/.)~\: ;~:/.:i>?'h\. :·. ·.' .< • 
;:' 
·:"'. ' ~.' . ·.... 


------~----­
The Observer Monday, March 12, 1979 -page 3 



by Ellen Buddy Saint Mary's Editor 
Notre Dame remained unde­feated this past weekend win­ning the Resional IX College Bowl compeution held at Saint Mary's. This victory allows them to attend the National Competition to be held in Miami, FL, in April. 
The championship match was between Notre Dame and Southern Illinois University (Carbondale) Friday afternoon. SIU emerged from the losers bracket to obtain the position in the championship match. It was a close match. The score at the half was 130-150, SIU leading. Notre Dame then came from behind to defeat SIU 
by 40 points, 260-220. 
. .. Carter 
{continued from page 1) 
Tuesday, a day later than 
planned. 
The Palestinian issue, one of 
a handful that has stalemated 
completion of a treaty between 
Egypt and Israel for four 
months, appears to be the 
principal obstacle. 
The question is whether the 
treaty terms should specifiy 
when Palestinian self-rule 
should be im(>lemented. 
The Amencan compromise 
terms, which Carter brought to 
Egypt last week and now to 
Israel, is known to skirt Sadat's 
demand for a timetable for 
autonomy. 
The compromise would set a 
one-year goal for completing 
negotiations to meet Israeli 
reservations about tying the 
treaty to a specific plan for 
autonomy. So far, Palestinian 
leaders and Jordan have boy­
cotted all negotiations. 
Sadat is known to be insisting on concrete evidence that Israel intends to set up a plan for self-rule. He is reported to have su~gested that a formula be constdered for Gaza, if not the West Bank, since the teritory formerlr was under Egyptian contro and Cairo's influence there remains strong. 
In Cairo, Egyptian officials who did not want to be identi­fied said Sadat acce(>ted two fo the U.S. compromise terms, just as Israel did last week, during his talks with Carter. 
Sadat and Carter reportedly reached a compromise on 
Saint Mary's lost in the second session of matches Friday morning when Purdue defeated them, 245-120. Later, competing against SIU, the second place team, Saint Mary's lost, 225-45. 
Frank Siano, Regional Coor­dinator for Indiana and Illinois 
commented,  ''Regionals  went  
fantastic  and the  teams  were  
all welJ prepared."  

According to Siano, all the credit goes to Mary Laverty, Saint Mary's college bowl coor­dinator, who was responsible for the execution of the meet. He also added that Laverty will be named the College Bowl Regional Coordinator for Indiana and Illinois for next year. 
These games brought back 
Egypt's objection to having the treaty take precedence over its defense pacts with other Arabs. 
They also agreed on a formula to allow security measures in the Sinai pemnsula to be reviewed after Israeli troops have evacuated the occupiedterritory. 
The two sides reportedly .-;till disagree on when to exchange ambassadors and on the sale of oil in the Sinai to Israel. 
Police helicopters patrolled ] erusalem skies Sunday morn­ing as Carter prayed at a Presbyterian church, visited a memorial to ] ewish victims of Nazism and toured the grave of Theodor Herzl, the Austrian journalist considered to be the modern founder of Zionism. 
After a courtesy call on Israeli President Yitzhak Navon, Carter laid a wreath at the Tomb of the Annihilated at Yad Vashem, the sprawling mountain-top monument to six million victims of the Nazis. 
Palestinian students, mean­while, protested Carter's visit with demonstrations in at least seven towns in the occupied West Bank. 
No ioiuries or damage was reported. 
The students were respond­ing to calls broadcast by the Palestine Liberation Organiza­tion and hard-line Arab states to ''rise up against the Carter visit." 
memories to Saint Mary's Head Coach Richard Pilger. He coached Saint Mary's in the 1967 games when they were televised. "We (the Saint Mary's team) did awfully well, had a great deal of fun and encountered good competi­tion," Pilger remembered. 
The Regionals ended with a dinner and presentation of awards on Friday night. Mary Laverty thanked all the staff, team members addin~, "'rhis has been a success. ' fhe plaque for Regional Champion­ship was then presented to the Notre Dame captain. 



BERECONCILED 


WITH YOUR GOD 
''.It is only with the heart that one can see rightly; what is essential is· invisible to the eye.'' 
"Be stilJ and know that I am G.,d." 
"I groped for him and could not find him. I prayed to j.:man unknown and he did not answer ... Then one day he w.as the-re again ... There were no words to record, no stones scored · h a fiery finger, no thunder on Tabor. I never understoor' 'i
campus 

this moment the meaning of the words, gift of faith."
miniStry 
"\', 

SUGGESTIONS: 
Spend some time reflectig on this question: Who is your God? What symbol best speaks the reality of your God? In the Book of Revelation, we read: "I know what you have d01 ~. know how hard you have worked .. You are patient and have not given up. But this is vr 1at I have against you--you do not love Me now as you did at first.'' Does this strilte any resr -1nse ~ in you? 
For this entire week pray upon rising and retiring. Ask God to speak toJour heart, then take a thirty-minute walk, perhaps around both lakes. Do this slowly an reflectively. 
Make a visit to the Blessed Sacrament every day in a different hall chapel, ending the week of visits at Sacred Heart. 
MIGHT THIS BE TI-lE WEEK TO SEEK OUT THE SACRAMENT OF RECONCIUA TION? 

The Observer Monday, March 12, 1979 -page 4 



any stub€nt may apply ~oR any comm1ss1on roR QUCStiOnS call7757 
applications Stub€Tlt Un1on CommiSSioneRs 
may B€ PICkOO up at th€ S. U. OffJC€S 
Beq1nn1nq on maRch s Oue on maRch 12-13 IntERVIEWS On maRCh 13-1 5 
ST. PATRICK'S 
DAY 
SOUND SALE. 

including: 
Oliver's Army 
Accidents 
Will Happen (What's So . Funny 'Bout) Peace, love And Understanding 
Senior Service 
Party Girl 
CAPITOL 
------..,-----PICTURED ITEMS ONLY.---·--------­
Cheap Trick at Budokan 
including: Surrender/ Ain't That A Shame IWantYouToWantMe Need Your love/ComeOn, Come On 
STEREO LPS SERIES fl98 

RSO 
5.99 

THE NOTRE DAME H.AMMES BOOKSTORE 
Student Gov't, Alumnae host Spring Fashion Show 
by Cindy Rudolph 
Saint Mary's Student Gov­ernment and Alumnae Associa­tion sponsored a Spring Fash­ion Show yesterday afternoon in Saint Mary's cafeteria for the Saint Mary's student body. 
Mary Beth Crossen, Indian­apolis Club coordinator, sug­~ested cosponsoring the fash­Ion show with the St. Mary's Student Government last fall because alumnae want to be involved in the student body activities. 
The Alumnae Association is interested in becoming more involved with students present­ly at Saint Mary's as well as those who have graduated. 
Other activities sponsored by 
STEREO LPS SERIES 798 
4.99 
the Alumnae Association have been a welcomin~ group to meet girls at the airpon, mid­night snacks during finals, binhday treats and senior teas. 
Alice Murphy, a Saint Mary's senior, headed the committee to organize the fashion show. ''We have been working on this since October. We gained a better understandin~ of the Alumnae's position m student body activities. Alumnae want to help each class," Murphy said. 
Paul Harris boutiques in Pierre Morgan Mall and Scotts­dale Mall provided the fash­ions. Saint Mary's girls modeled sports clothes, casual attired for attending class, career outfits for job interviews and formal dresses for Spring dances. Some girls modeled former Saint Mary's uniforms in contrast to the more modern fashions. Seniors served punch and pastries. 
Next year the Alumnae Asso­ciation and the Student Govern­ment plan to expand the fashion show to include more Saint Mary's alumnae. "Many Saint Mary's Alumnae are involved in the fashion business and some might also be interested in modeling the clothes,'' Crossen concluded. 
Students to get passport info 
There will an organizational meeting for student who have signed up for the London and Rome summer programs spon­sored by Saint Mary's tomor­row night at 7 p.m. in room 348 Madeleva Hall. Passport in­formation and a listing of classes and teachers will be discussed. 
Students from last year's trip will also be there to talk about the program. Any new stu­dents interested are welcome to attend. For further information contact Dr. Anthony Black at 4948. 
Lab Theatre 
to present comedy 
Edward Albee's one act comedy, The Amen'can Dream, will be presented as a Lab Theatre production tonight, and tomorrow night at 9 p.m. in the Nazz. Admisswn is free. 
The show is directed by Jim Houle and the cast includes Lisa Turco as Mommy, Mark Amenta as Daddy, Regma Pratt as Grandma, Diane Picariello as Mrs. Barker, and Mark Meyer as the Young Man. 
The play, The Golden Fleece, was scheduled to run at 8 p.m. today and tomorrow, but has been cancelkd. 
ROCCOS 
men's hairstyling at comfortable prices 
531 N. ffiichigan 
233-4957 

The Observer Monday, March 12, 1979 -page 5 
***************** 
: SOCIOLOGY :
Soviet,Vietnamesepressure kicks out advisers ** ** 
* * 
~ Meet Your Maior : 


HAt~GKOK, Thailand (AP) ­China said Sunday its advisers have heen kicked out of Laos under Soviet and Vietnamese pressure, and accused Hanoi of tightening its grip on its small and weak western neighbor as part of a drive to dominate all of Indochina. 
Vietnam fireJ a propaganda barrage back at Peking, accus­ing Chinese Vice Premter Deng Xiaoping (Teng Hsian-ping) of forging a "devilish a.lliance" with Washington and saying the cowboy hat Deng donned in Texas shows his "real nature." 
Vietnam claimed fierce fight­ing continued Sunday agamst the Chinese invasion force near their common border and ac­cused China of firing more than 3,000 round of artillery into the coastal province of Quang Ninh, destroymg homes and a ceram­ics factory. 
Hanoi again insisted that the Chinese were not withdrawing, as Peking had announced last Monday. It said in some areas Chinese troops were actually advancing. 
But Western analysts in Thailand said China apf:larently was continuing a slow pull-out of its forces. 
They said they could not substantiate Vietnamese claims 
~~~~ 
~ ~ 
I 
I 
Caught by a ca"!e~a at t~e right angle and the right light, the Dome reflects arttsttcally tn the doors ofthe Ltbrary. [photo byMike BigleyJ 
Crowd marks Senior Bar's Sowder scholarship benefit 
Donna Teevan 
A large turnout marked Wednesday's Senior Bar benefit for the establishment of a scholarship fund in the name of Andy Sowder, the Notre Dame senior who died of meningitis in February. 
Pat Jorday, a Senior Bar manager, stressed that while "Wednesday is usually a slow night," the receipts from the benefit were the greatest of the week, including the weekend. The large turnout was expecial­ly noteworthy considering the minimal amount of advertising and the fact that many people had tests the next day. 
The money raised by the benefit totalled $500, which represents 75 percent of the evening's receipts, according to 
Jordan. The bar managers had originally planned to donate 50 percent of the proceeds to the scholarship fund, but they decided to make the donation more substantial by giving 75 percent. 
The exact amount and terms 
.of the scholarship have not yet been finalized. Jordan stated that the bar manages are trying to contact the Sowder family to discuss the administration of the scholarship. 
He also said they are search­ing for donars to increase the fund so that the scholarship can be awarded annually or given to more than one person. 
According toJordan, the idea for te benefit was a result of the bar managers' recollections of Sowder's patronage and his appearance at the bar the week before he died. 
''There was hardly any dis­cussion about whether to have a benefit or not; the only questions were when and how to have it," said Jordan. 
.The benefit was also a reflec­tion of the bar's desire to become more involved with the senior class, noted Jordan. 
Jordan added that the benefit "sparked discussion about Andy Sowder and what it's like to have a friend leave like that." he said that this discussion was particularly val­uable to seniors because they are preparing to leave ''the isolation of Notre Dame to go out into the real world were things like this happen.'' 
that Chinese troops were shoot­ly has raised new concerns ing wounded Vietnamese sol­among the Vietnamese and the * diers and civilians and had fired pro-Vietnamese Laotian gov­~ * on a Red Cross vehicle. ernment in light of China's 
Vietman has repeatedly ac­recent invasion of Vietnam. cused the Chinese of mass atro­China lodged a protest with * cities in the three-week-old Laos Saturday, accusing it of war, and has bitterly de­following the Soviet and Viet­** nounced Peking's new ties }Vith namese line in intensifying ~ the United States. anti-China activities. 
China's charges about the * 
* 
Laotian situation appeared in a ***************** 
commentary in the official newspaper People's Daily, broadcast by the official Xinhua (Hsinhua) news agency. 
Xinhua quoted Vice Foreign Minister Han Nianlong (Han Nien-lung) as saying: "On March 7 the Lao government unilaterally tore up an agree­ment between the two countries and comJ?elled us to stop the constructiOn of highways in northern Laos and withdraw Chinese experts.'' 
China accused Vietnam and the Soviet Union of "enslaving the Lao people.'' The comen­tary added: "To clamp down on the Lao people's resistance and step up their control <?f Laos, the Vietnamese authon­ties deliberately spread the lie of the so-called Chmese prel?ar­ations for a 'war of agresswn' against Laos in order to find a pretext for themselves to take action.'' 
It reiterated Chinese charges that Vietnam wants a ''greater Indochina federation'' in which it would control Laos and Cambodia. A pro-Vietnamese government took over Cambo­dia in early January. 
Laos' Vietnamese-dominated government has little control over northern Laos, where Chinese influence is strong and where the road projects were 
concentrated.  This undoubted­ 
:::=:::  
··.  
·~....  
.. .·.  
(Any morning, Monday through Friday 6:00a.m. to 11:00 a.m.)  
Nobody makes better breakfasts than Golden Bear and, nobody gives  

you more for your money. Nobody. 

1. EGGS 
Two Grade A, extra large eggs served with hash browns, buttered toast. and jelly. 
:2. FRENCH TOAST 3. WAF.FLES 
One waffleFour half slices served served with twowith two strips strips of baconof bacon or 
or two porkies. (Offer ends Apnl 30. 1979) 
two porkies. 

' .. ~ 
11 • " FAMILY
::AURANT
~ 


* 

Monday, March 12 *~ 
6:30PM * 
*
* 

109 O'Shaughnessy ~ 
* 
* 

4. PANCAKES 
Three pancakes served with two strips of bacon or two porkies.­
• 52820 U.S. 31 North-South Bend • 6111 Crawfordville Road-South Bend 
• 921 West McKinley-Mishawaka 

The Observer Monday, March 12, 1979 -page 6 
lut out the dollor b11ny 
tl wtlh you wh<<lt you <Ottte tn tor your htt!l sty!tnu. uncl v~e II tttke $i otf your IJ,II. Not only ti11 you .nv•· u ~u(k. but lhf· qull ou~ ~JnHI~J tu lltlt;.,, you look Y""'' u·11! you get to ~tUllt<e yO''' wl out1 What a deul 
HAIR CARE FOR MEN & WOMEN 
UPPER LEVEL/SCOTTSDALE MALL ACROSS FROM NORTH VILLAGE 
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA MALL ON U.S. 31 291 ·891 1 <!72-8666 
\ 
'!··;·.' . . 
An Tostal plans proceed smoothly 
by Tom Hay 
Preparations for An Tostal '79 are "going along very smoothly,'' according to Paul 
B. Callahan, An Tostal chair­man. "We're still in the basic planning stages right now,'' said Callahan, "but every­thing's starting to roll." 
Plans for the five days of festivities include the rerult"n of popular traditional events!, plus some new events and an expanded carnival section. 
The carnival, instituted last year on an experimental basis, will be structure differently this year. "We're going to have more and better rides this year," said 'Barker, "but fewer game booths.'' 
Callahan estimated the num­ber of carnival rides at 10-12, including a possible roller-

GO THIS UNIOUE ..SAY BUll..ATHlDIC: SHIRT (USTOM·PRINTED WITH THE NAME OF YOUR S(HOOL FOR ONlY 55.50. 
Bull your way through college in ~tyle! With a genuine Schlitz Malt Liquor bull shirt. Featuring our Schlitz Malt Liquor bull with royal blue 3/41ength sleeves and white shirt body. It's made of 70% cotton and 30% polyester. And it's 100% you, because we custom-print the name of your school right on the front. 
It's the shirt you'll wear proudly all year long. For jogging, class, team sports and getting together with friends for a round of Schlitz Malt Liquor. After all, if you're going to "SAY BULL" across your chest, you might as well start backing it up. 
r--------------------------~
MAll TOtSAY BUll.. JERSOOFFER P.O.BOX9191.ST.MUl.MINNESOTA 55191 
Please send--Schlitz Malt Liquor "SAY BULL" College Name Athletic Jersey(s) 
Cquant1ty) 
@ $5.50 each, including College Name Personalization, postage and handling. 
Sizes available: · 
S small (34-36) M medium (38-40) L large (42-44) XL extra-large (46) 
-COLLEGE IMPRINT (please print)
QUANTITY 
SIZE (Spectfy S. M. L, XL) 
Enclosed ts $___check or money order payable to "SAY BULL" Jersey Offer. Name_______________________________________________ 
Address--------------------------------------------­City._________________State:__________Zipt_________ 
Offer votd where prohtbited by law. Allow 4 to 6 weeks for shtpment. Offer expires May 31. 1979. 
~--------------------------· 
SCHLITZ MALT LIOIJOR. OM~ SAY BEER. SAY BULL! 
coaster. 

There will also be five game booths, but these will be run by the carnival company. "Last year each dorm ran its dwn booth, but there were hassles with getting workers and keep­ing accoutns,'' commented Callahan. 
Barker suggested that the dorms sponsor events instead of booths in order to increase participation in An T ostal. 
An Tostal will kick-off on Tuesday, April 24 with a Beer Garder to be held off-campus. Although this event normally takes place at Saint Mary's, Callahan decided to move it off-campus due to limited space and growing turnout. 
Last year's Irish Pub returns to the Senior Bar on Wednesday, complete with an Irish band and dark Guinness beer. 

Among the event to be 
staged on ''Gentle Thursday'' 
at Saint Mary's are the new 
game of 'human backgammon,' 
a professional frisbee demon­
stration, the Mr. Campus 
contest, and an attempted 
world record-breaking stunt. 
Last years giant game of 
musical chairs successfully 
broke a Guiness World Record. 
Anything from eg~s to kegs will be tossed on 'Frivolous Friday" at Notre Dame, along with various races and contest, as well as the infamous 'Recess 101.. 
"Sunny Saturday" will see a 
chariot race, a possible para­
chute drop, various mud­
battles, and more. 
The last day of An Tostal,. 
"Serene Sunday", focuses on 
the finals of the bookstore 
basketball tournament. 
Bookstore basketball, written 
up last year in Sports Illustrated 
magazine, will run throughout 
the entire week, as will the 
"Ugly Man on Campus" 
contest and "In Loco Parentis," 
a late night bedtime story and 
tuck-in service. 
An Tostal is the only col­legiate festival of its kind in the nation. ''Nobody else drops everything for five days to party,'' commented Barker, ''especially in an academic environment like Notre Dame." 
f
An Tostal's popularity is rowing. Begun m 1968 with a 25 budget and a staff of four, An Tostal now enjoys a budget of $15,000 and nearly 300 staff members. Says Barker, "if it keeps going like it is now, we may have to add another day in a few years." 

Society to meet 
The Notre Dame Pre-Law 
Society is holding a meeting for 
undergraduates considering 
legal careers tonight at 7 p.m. 
in the Library Auditorium. 
Dean Robert Waddick from the College of Arts & Letters will advise and inform students about law schools and proper preparation and admission pro­cedures. Undergraduate in­formation packages will also be distributed. 
ArtSeries 
topresent 
Chopin Lives 
The Saint Mary's College Performing Arts Series pre­sents Robert Guralnik in "Chopin Lives" at 8 p.m., Wednesday in O'Laughlin Audito"rium. Tickets cost $2 for students and $3.50 for adults. They may be purchased at the Saint Mary's ucket office, room 239 Moreau, or reserved by calling 284-4176, 9 a.m.-noon and 1-4 p.m., Monday-Friday. 
United Parcel Service 
Part Time Openings 
$5.68 per hour 
apply Mon. March 19 11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. 
IUSB-1700 Mishawaka Blvd. Administration Bldg. Rm. 132 
Equal Opportunity Employer
M/F · 




Constitution, 
selection methods need revision 
The Board of Commissioners recently at>proved the nomination of Tom Hamel as Student Union Dtrector. The Observer believes this action was taken in what the Board believes to be the best interest of the student body. However, the appointment process showed several flaws in the Student Government Constitution, and raises serious questions about the nomination approval process. 
First of all, the Student Union Steering Committee, according to the Constitution, must make a nomination to the Board by March 1. Their refusal to make a nomination, based on their failure to reach agreement on a c;~ualified candidate, involved an interpretatton of the Constttution. This interpretation could be questioned. But what is immediately questionable is whether or not "no nomination" was in fact a nomination of "no candidate." This point should be clarified in the Constitution. 
Secondly, the process by which the Board approves or disapproves a nomination is questionable because the Board is not as involved in the evaluative process of the candidates as the Steering Committee is. The Board's approval is necessary to insure that a good Student Union Dtrector is chosen; but the Board should only turn down a nomination in cases where they believe the Steering Committee's first nominee is completely unqualified. 
The Board's function could be more precisely defined if a 2/3 or 3/4 majority vote was needed to overturn a nomination. When the Board refuses the ftrst nomination and the Steering Committee makes a second nomination' more objective criteria should be used to decide between th~ two candidates. Of course, in such cases, a majority vote would decide between the two candidates. 
Lastly, constitutio~al problems exist in the decision-mak­ing process of the Board. The Constitution states that a secretary must be present at aJJ Board of Commissioners meetings to take mmutes and that these minutes become a permanent public record. At last Thursday's meeting, no secretary was present, and the members of the Board agreed not to divul~e any information other than what was released in an "officta) statement." 
Although it may be a minor point, their disregard for the constitutional stipulations for a secretary and a public record brings into question the validity of the meeting. Ifthe letter of the constttution is violated concerning how the Board of Commissioners meeting is to operate, are the results of that meeting valid? 
A diKrepancy exists, and must be cleared up, in what should be public and what should be private information. If decisions are made in the best interest of the student body, the student body should be able to know the rationale behind the decisions. If a situation exists in which the proceedin~s of a meeting should be kept secret to protect cenatn individuals, the Constitution must recognize t!Ies~ instances. 
The appointment of Tom Hamel as Student Union Director, took an unusual amount of time and uncovered many flaws in the Constitution. The questions raised mw;t not only be answered, but the Constitutton must be amended to delineate the position of the Board of Commissioners in the appointment process and the ~erence between public and pnvate information must be explained. 
Monday, March 12, 1979-page 7 
Internalized selection process 
provides higher quality nolllinees 
To the Notre Dame Shulent &dy: 
Under the Student Govern­
ment Constitution, ratified in 
February 1978, the Board of 
Commissioners is empowered 
to approve the Student Union 
Steermg Committee's nominee 
for Student Union Director. 
This manner of selection is an 
attempt to internalize· the pro­
cess so that members of the 
Union most familiar with the 
job requirements would be able 
to select the best nominee(s) for 
the position. The Constitution 
leaves the establishment of the 
details concerning the Steering 
Committee's nomination policy 
to this body.. 
The Board of Commissioners is composed of representatives from dtverse and major student organizations outside the Stu­dent Union, as well as the Student Union Director. The ultimate responsibility of this Board is to the student body who directly or indirectly elects the members. Thus the approv­al, by the Board of Commis­sioners, of the Steering Com­mittee's nomination for Student Union Director is to ensure the best person indeed is the Director of the lar~est financial student organtzation on campus. 
This function is not seen by the Board, nor stated in the constitution, as a "rubber­stamp." In Article Ill, section 1, sub section 4 of the Constitu­tion it states: 
"The outgoing Steering 
Committee shall nominate the 
new Student Union Director 
for appro11al by the outgoing 
Board ofCommissioners 
before March 1 ofeach year.'' 
In this approval process, it is not only reality, but the goal, for the Board ofCommissioners to use knowledge and insights outside the Steering Commit­tee. The Board feels that is has a responsibility to weigh very heavily the recommendations of the Steering Committee, but that this is not the only con­sideration in this process. 
This year marked only the second time the Student Union Director was selected under this process. The Steering Committee had complete con­trol over the nomination pro­cess, and which candidates received its nomination for Student Union Director. Be­cause of a policy question, the Steering Committee was unable to meet its obligation under the Constitution and make a nom­ination by the March 1 dead-· line. 
The Board of Commissioners discussed the constitutional possibilities of 1( selection of a Judicial Council committee to resolve the question, and 2( the Board of Commissioners over­rulin_g the Student Union policy causmg the deadlock. The Board felt that the situation was not in fact a conflict regarding interpretation of the Constitu tion, but a policy conflict within the Student Union Steerin_g Committee which prevented 1t from malting the nomination. In recognition of the newness of the system, rather than over­ruling the policy, the Board agreed to go along with the Steering Committee's decision to re-open the application and selection process for Student Union Director. 
As a member of both the Student Union Steering Com­mittee and the Board of Com­missioners, the Student Union Director has the ultimate re­sponsibility of representing to the Board the nominees and their qualifications. He is the intermediary who is best able to bring forward information to aid the Board of Commissioners in affecting an apt>roval of the Student Union Dtrector nom­mees. 
Based upon this information and the Steering Committee's presentation, and exercising the insights which accrue to individual members' respective positions in major student or­ganizations, the Board of Commissioners failed to af" prove the Steering Committee s ftrst nominee, and subsequent­ly approved the second. (See S.G. Constitution, An. m, 2, I) 
It was the feeling of the 
Board at the time, that a 
disclosure of the reasons be­
hind this decision would not be 
beneficial to the operation of 
the Student Union, and ulti­
mately to the student body. In 
light of the ensuing controversy 
surrounding this decision, we 
now feel obligated to furnisl> 
the essence of the reasoning 
behind the approval of the 
second nominee. 
Recognizing the strength of 
endorsement each representa­
nominee received from the 
Steering Committee, a majority 
of the Board was nonetheless 
disposed to approve he second 
nominee. The majority of the 
Board based its decision on the 
following considerations of both 
candidates: the Steering 
Committee's recommenda­
tions, orKanizational ability and 
related financial responsibili­
ties, ability to work with people, 
previous experience in a leader­
ship and coordinating .I_)OSition 
ofa major student orgaruzation, 
and previous experience in the 
Union. 
Our goal in making this 
statement is to give a respon­
sible account of the actions of 
the Board in the approval of the 
Student Union Director. 
Although some may have ques­
. tions regarding the process, it is the unanimous feeling of the Board that the decision was made in good faith. At this point the Board feels that it is tmportant to look ahead and work together in support of the new Student Union Directot· Tom Hamel. 
The Sltldnt Gotl"""""' 
/Joard ofCOfllmissiot~~rs 
P. 0. Box Q 
Whether that is a good thin& or . ..Debt not is not my point. My point is that when . the governmenc[conlim1ed from page 8) incurs a national debt, they do it at the expense of the upper
this is that the government 
middle class. 
funded programs (i.e. welfare, unemployment, medicare, etc.) 
For instance, when the 
are designed almost always to 
government borrows money to benefit the lower class. finance a welfare program, the program benefits only people 

on welfare. Most of the people here, I would guess are not on welfare. As a result, we get no positive effect from the pro­gram. The only effecr we dO Jet from the program is a negauve one; since the government's borrowing to ftnance this pro­gram has decreased the value of everyone's money. That is what bothers me about the national debt, and I feel it is something that should be eliminated if at all possible. 
]ac~ Selv11ggio 

of either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson 
_The Observer_ 
as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Rlly 0 'Bn'en &x Q NolTe Dame, IN 46.5.56 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calct~ll Features Editor . . . . . . . . . Chris Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Langhenry Photo Editor ...........Dor~g Christian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Ros~ Mills per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem· Copy Editor ............ Phil CacfiJ_e<J Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Saint Mary's Edito, ...... FJ/tm Br~ddy Business Manager ........ john Tucker 
Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam· News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ &b Rtdy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 
The Observer -Editorials Monday, March 12, 1979 -page 8 
P. 0. Box Q 


Nestles boycott restricts individuals 
Dear Editor: 
The Nestle boycott is a severe infrin~ement of individual sovereignty. In a Free-Market economy, each individual should be able to choose which products he buys. At Notre Dame, we expect the situation to be in accordance with that Free Market, by letting students choose what to con­sume and not to consume. With obvious restrictions aside, 
i.e. alcohol, drugs, birth­control, a supposedly "just" student government should encourage us to act as individuals in non-communist countries act. In other words, if I want to boycott Nestle products, I will. Ifl don't want to, I won't. It is not for the "community" or anyone else to decide. 
Anyone who has studied Economics knows the 
difference between "private" and "public" goods. There are no economic externalities involved here (with the Nestle situation) and thus no boycott is warranted, justified, or logical. Nestle's products are not public goods and thus call for no social controls. They are private goods and it is individuals who should decide whether to buy them or not. The boycott should not be tolerated on this 
campus.
If you believe in the Free Market and wish to dampen the effects of the current Nestle boycott, there are several things that you can do. 
Write Nestle and make clear to them that the ND boycott does not represent a majority view on this campus. Set up a delivery system 10 your dorm, which allows Nestle consumers to place orders for Nestle products. On week-ends the orders can be filled in South Bend (still a member of the Free Market) and delivered to ND. Petition your dorm for ''Free Market'' supporters, and mail the results to Nestle the Civil Liberties Union, and the Student Government. 
However, ifyou don't believe in the Free Market, then ~o ahead and participate happdy in the boycott. But don't attempt any further social con­trols over my behavior or anyone else's. It won't work. These days it's very chic for college students to boycott products. Boycotting, on an 10dividual basis is fine and just. 
But forced boycotts are unjust and stupid. It is an easy way to jump on the "issue­bandwagon" whose parking garage has long been at Notre Dame. 
And finally, don't bother me with your altruistic "save the world" slogans -I'm busy drinking my Nestle's chocolate milk, mmmmmmm good. 
Lawrence A. Kenny 
Editor's Note: The referendum to boycott Nestle products passed by 2,504 votes or 72 percent ofthe vote. 
endorsements. This is cle~iy

Officers defend 
not the case. The endorsement concept was never rejected as was inferred by the editorial,Saint Mary's but was discussed due to the lack of appropiate guidelines in the election rules. Guidelines are now clear within the policy. 
endorsement policy Group endorsement affects 
the individuals' right to back Dear Editor: the candidate of their choice, removin~ the individual Before discussin~ the element 10herent in voicing an editorial concerning the Issue of-opinion, vote or in any way 
endorsements at Saint Mary's, we would like to state the policy 
itself. 

''There will be no ~roup endors~ment; group si~nifving an enttre group or enttre d'orm or any other group represen­tative group. This does not mean that the officers of these · groups may not endorse so long as it Is explicitly stated that only the officers are doing so." 
The editorial that appeared Wednesday, March 7, stated that the policv would reir.rt 
Candidates Respond 
Glockner/Wisted/McGrath 
As a vital part of St. Mary's Student Government for the past three years, we have represented the student body to the administration. The effectiveness of next year's Student Government is contingent upon the experience the officers have with the administration and exist10g commissions and boards. 
Student input. into Student Gover~me~t is. mandatory for effective operation. Clear commumcauon IS necessary to encourage student input and participation. In the past, t~e Grapevine has served this purpose. Unfortunate,ly, this year's public relations commissioner, saw fit to publish on~y once in an enitre year. Because of the ~reakdown 10 communications which has resulted we recogmze aneed for a consistent in-depth newspaper. This would complement The Obse:.Ver because the material is particularly pertinent to Saint Mary'-s students, but not always the SMC-ND community as a whole. The newspaper would serve as an informative source of administrative and policy making decisions. 
Our social commission is very active, but it needs a structure to function effectively. This commission ~ust alos start organizing in order to prepare to take poss.essiOn of the library building when it becomes available to us 10 the future. 
The hall presidents are directly responsible to the residents of the dorm. eliminating the HPC would cau~e conflicts and inconsistencies among dorms. A breakdown 10 the effectiveness of Student Government would result. Consequently, the section rep position, along with the hall presidents responsibilities should be defined 10 the Student Government Orientation program which is held in the beginning of the year. 
Many present RA's perceive the need for representation on the Board of Governance. Residence Life and Student Government are working toward the same goals. An RA commissioner would positively reinforce the efforts of both. 
The course descnption booklet will contain student evaluations, a breakdown of grades received, and the cost of books and supplies. In addition to-departmental descrip­tions, this booklet will be exceedingly valuable to the student. 
Last year's Student-Faculty 21 Club was a success. Permanent licensin~ is impossible, but te~porary, m.onthy permits can be obtamed. We cannot lose this opportumty for faculty and student interaction. 
Student input into tenure decisions, extension of the pass~fail. option eeriod, iJ?creased availablity 0~ off-campus hous10g 10formauon, and 1IDporovement of secunty are a few of our top priorities for the 79-80 academic year. 
Not only are our ideas dynamic and possible, but our experience is unsurpassed. We have not only particip~ted in campus activites, but we have directed them. In dos10g, to demonstrate our leadership ability, let us outline our past and present positions. . . . 
Susie Glockner: present RA, Movie Commissioner, Charity Commissioner, Student rep on Acade~ic Standard~ Committee, two years as An Tostal Day Chall'man, Mardi Gras Committee, Social Commission, Hall President, Sports Commissioner. Kathy McGrath: Student Assembly rep, Hall Concil, Advisor to Ang_ers program. Sheila Wisted: Student Gov' t treasurer, Hall treasurer, member of Board of Regents Finance and Budget Committee, Advisor to Student Assembly, co-chairman of Soph. Parent's Weekend, section representative. 
Trigiani/Dombach/Sweeney 
The Trigiani/Dornbach/Sweeney ticket for Saint Mary's SBP /VP AA/VPSA appreciates the Observer endorsement of Friday, March 9. The editorial stated the goals of the Trigiani/Dornbach/Sweeney platform dearly and at the same timeplaced emphasis upon the ticket's philosophy of student government which is an integral part of our platform. 
Under the Academic Directive we suggest a student­oriented course evaluation booklet and an extensive majors awareness program for freshmen and sophomores. Our Athletic Directive includes revision of the intramural program and the awarding of a monogram for intramural sport participation. We are especially interested in the development aspect of tlhe college because of present plans for a new lebrary. We would like to promote student initiative in fund-raising not only for Saint Mary's, but also in an active, successful charity program. 
The Six Directives of the Trigiani/Dornbach/Sweeney platform are structured to meet the needs ofthe Saint Mary's student body in each of tht; areas <!f camp~s life--aca~~mic, ahtletic, development, residence-life, social and spmtual. These ideas are rooted in pride in Saint Mary's and the education which it offers to women. It is important that this pride by nurtured while we are studnets so that as graduates we will be able to recognize the value of a Saint Mary's College education. Our _pro~ram of Six Directives includes activities which exempliJty this attitude. 
To inform students about residence-life, we have suggested in our Residence-life Directive a problem'solving manual called SMC & ME. Underlined in the Trigiani/ Dornbach/Sweeney Social Directive is a "Get-away week­end'' program to formulate off-campus trips to nearby cities. Also under this directive is a Farmers' Market to provide students with an option to purchase fruit and vegetables. The Belle-system is another proposal of the Social Directive which would be an information cneter available to students by telephone. 
To improve spiritual life we support late-night Masses on campus during the week. Also, to promote not only spiritual awareness, but to promote awareness of Saint Mary's College history and tradition we suggest increased interac­tion with the Sisters of the Holy Cross through our Adopt-a-Nun program. 
Our directives are concise and well-defined. We have investigated the feasabil:ity ofthese programs, and due to our experience in student government, we feel that we are more than able to implement them. Therefore, we do not feel that our programsare over-ambitious. 
The Trigiani/Dornbach/Sweeney ticket for Saint Mary's student government positions wants the cahnce to materi­alize as a moving force in the Saint Mary's community. Student Government works when we do. And we do. 
The endorsement policy passed by the Student Assembly last week does not take effect until the next election. However, because no ,endorsement policy exists for the student government dection, no endorsements were accepted. 
giving support. The existing policy respects the individual's rights. 
The editorial also states that "college students are capable of making difficult decisions.'' Group endorsements could infer that individuals do not have this capability. 
If a group has endorsed, the general public has the ri~ht to assume that an individual, merely because they are a member of a group, is endorsing a particular when in essence this may not be the case. 
The present policy exhibits confidence and respects the rights of every member of the Saint Mary's student body. 
Gail DaTTagh [SBP] Cari Trousdale [Co-Eiectt'on Commissr'onerJ Noreen Bracken [Co-Eiectt'on Commissz'onerJ 
Somethingtobe 
alarmed about 
Dear Editor: 
In Greg Hedges' article in Thursday's issue of The Observer, he refers to the national debt as "nothing ~o get alarmed about", I disagree. Greg does have a point. He says that the money obtained from the debt will be used to help curb unemployment and finance other government pro­grams. This is correct, but let us go a bit further. When a government program is financed by incurring a debt, what really happens is the government borrows money that doesn't exist. In other words, the ~overnment prints more money m order to pay for their programs. 
Money can be thought of as a measure of work. Usually, the more money one has, the harder one has worked to obtain it. But, this printed money is not worked for by the govern­ment. It's just printed. As a result, we have more money in the economy, but less work backing our money. Our money becomes worth less, and we can buy less with it. This is one of the main causes of our sky­rocketing inflation rate, and if there is anything to be alarmed about right now it is inflation. 
I'd like to make one point concerning the ND/SMC crowd as a whole. I don't think I would be wrong if I said that most of the students here at Notre Dame and St. Mary's come from upper middle class families. If the national debt hits anyone hard, it is the upper middle class. The reason for 
[continued on page 7] 


Features 
ethis Way 
Ted, You're Finished 
Each year, Fr. Hesburgh submits his resignation to the Board of Trustees. We call them Trustees because we entrust them with the guidance of the University, by virtue of their sound reasoning and thoughtful direction. 
But what would happen if, this year, they succumb to the influence of a somewhat archaic philosophy? Cou~d a change in logic mean a change 10 leaders( 
Ted: Realizing the Board may wish to take on leadership of a different scope or vision, I would like to submit to you my resignation. My love for the University has never been stonger, but I would like to ste_p down and let someone with new vtsion take over. 
Soard: That sounds reasonable to us, Ted. It's been a pleasure doing business with you. 
Ted: Well, if you insist, I'll sign again. But just for one more year ... 
Board: You don't understand. We accept your resignation. 
Ted: ... And I will continue to do my best for all the youngsters in the Notre Dame Family ... What did you say? 
Board: Ted, you're finished. 
Ted: Ha ha. Very funny. 
Board: We're not kidding. 
Ted: You're not? Aw, c'mon guys. Just one more year. 
Board: Ted, we're separating you from the community. 
The Talking Head 
Ted: But why? 
Board: It's the rule. Besides, it's for your own good. 
Ted: Rules can be changed. 
Board: Ted, you may not realize this, but when you get into the real world, there'll be rules and directives you'll have to live with. You might as well learn now. 
Ted: I've never heard of that before. 
Board: Well, you must be living on Mars. 
Ted: Don't I have any rights? 
Board: Ted, this isn't a state school. We pride ourselves on being different. 
Ted: But I'm an adult! Let me show I'm responsible. 
Board: If you think this is bad, you should have been here in the twenties. Back then there were 200 pages of rules for the President to follow. Now there are only eight. 
Ted: But times have changed. 
Board: At Notre Dame, some things never change. Here we've got tradition. 
Ted: That sounds reasonable to me. You can't fight tradition. 
Of course, this is fiction. For no reasonable person would use such pretzel logic, and only fools would accept it. 

The U.N. today released the pair~ 
ings fof the 1979 NCAA . ~an~, Countrtes, Arms & Anndidatton) Tournament. Here'& a t'Wldown of the teams, their strengths, attd their weaknesses. 
EAST REGIONAL 
Taiwan vs. Uimbodia at Laos 
Taiwan-They've been one 
of the stronger independent in recent yearst ever smce leaving the MCC (MainJana Chinese Conference). 
Cambodia-Some weren't sure if U!mbodia would still be around for the p!~offs. Their name has been officially changed to Kampuchia, in an effort to change their image after the team went to pot. 
Vietnam vs. India at Ho chi Minh CitY 
Vietnam-the only team every to beat the U.S., the "Bamboo Shooters" would love to do it again. They'll have to make it all the way to the finals to 
:.~·.: .. 
.· .. . .. . · . ·•· 

~~~b~,~~~~:·····~~f~~~-·~d·~-•.}.. "•I
Ist·aei.•Q))ttildb ··• · 
Monday, March 12, 1979 -page 9 
IntervieUJ With Hooks 
Dr. Benjamin Hooks is the cu~rent executive director of the Nauonal Association of Colored People, NAACP. Founded in 1909, the NAACP has been one of the leading forces in the civil rights movement. Dr. Hooks has worked with Martin Luther King during the '60s. After a time with the FCC, Dr. Hooks became director of the NAACP. I asked him several questions and found him quite responsive to all of my questions. The following is the interview which took place on March 3, 1979,. Also, I wou~d like to thank Dale Atk10s, and Kevm Green for all their help in this project. 
Walton; Mr. Hooks, how did you get your start in civil right? hooks: Being raised in the south, we were always concerned about the lack of privileges that black people had, as it related to white people. In those early days we were not thinking altogether in terms of all those things that happened later. 
When I was twelve, I went to Chicago for a visit. I spent a week there. I also had a lot of older friends who traveled back and forth between the Nonh and South. So we knew that in Chicago there was no segregation, for instance on street cars, drinking fountains, going to the movies. The obvious, everyday evidences of in­equality made us know that someday maybe we could break through these barriers. 
No one knew how long it would take. I don't recall having any really conscious thoughts of how to do it, but I felt that we would. So that in a sense, anyone who was thinking about civil rights was involved with the begin­ning. Then, when I came out of the army, I knew that I wanted to become a lawyer, and this threw me into the mainstream of the of the movement. Walton: Who have you worked with, indiviudally, and what organization? Hooks: My major work, on the national scene, was with the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, that Dr. Martin Luther King headed.. I became a member of the board of directors the year after he founded the conference. I remained on the board until I went to the Federal Communi­cations Commission, in 1972. Also, for a period of time. I served as the national Financial Secretarv of the SCLC. In that movement, ·1 worked with nearly all of the people, one way or the other, that were in civil rights. I 
! didn't work that closely with all of
them, but I worked closely with all of 
.... ,...<.· .""'_u...... Now they're fightwg to stay m lO. ' 
-
France-They've got the Gaul to.call themselves a team. Pattern their play after the SuperSonics. their cheer· leaders are an Eiffel. 
Anthony Walton 
the people in the SCLC." That was Ralph Abernathy, Stoney Cook, Andrew Young, Walther Fauntory, Joe Lowry, Hosea Williams, Coretta King, and others. And I was acquainted with the younger people. in the movement.The other ~roup, wlth people like John Lew1s, Stokely Sarmichael, James Forman and the CORE ~trouo. I knew most of them. 
Also during that period of time I ran into Malcolm X. So I knew most of the men and women in the civil rights movement. As well as those, I also knew Thurgood Marshall, I worked with him as a lawyer, and Roy Wilkins and that group. Walton: Did you work with any other organizations besides SCLC? Hoo~s: I worked with only two 
.organizations basically, NAACP and 
SCLC 
Walton: What would you consider the 
greatest achievements of the civil rights movement? Hoo~s: I think that .rh.e 
greatest achievement was the ehmt· nation of the obvious examples of discrimination in the South. Breaking down the barriers of water fountains, playgrounds, and parks. The 1954 the Supreme Court Brown vs. Topeka Board of Education was the grandfather of breaking everything else down, without it I doubt that we could have achieved any of the other victories, so in this respect it was probably the sin~le ~reatest achieve­ment of this age 10 ctvil rights. Walton: What have been your personal highlights in civil rights? Hoo~s: I think it was having the opportunity to work with, and know in some depth, some of the great leaders of the modern civil rights movement. Also helpin~ to be one of the strategists wtth the SCLC. Walton: The NAACP was considered 
the  conservative  movement  of  the  
60's.  How  does  it  relate  to  that  
viewpoint now?  

,Hooks: It was a lie then, and it is a lie 
.now. It was a newspaper misconcept· ion that has been deliberately fed. There were at least 100 cities in the South where the NAACP was the only movement. And whatever was done, whether it be marching, demonstrat· ing, or going to jail, it happened under the leadership of the NAACP. 
One of the major reasons that the SCLC was started was the NAACP had been outlawed. The NAACP had been put out of business in Alabama, Mississippi, and much of Texas and 
· on page 10) 
. 

England...Ba~ in the early days of . BfU.l!C, they Were the. cream of ~e 

meet the U.S. though, and they're still 
W. Germany-A strong team. They
hutting from injuries sustained in their 
lost some of their better players when 
regular season game against Chifla. 
the NCAA split them into Eastern and 
-
Wesem. Their last two games with
India-They're a hungry team with a 
the U.S. were, classics. Along with
deep bench. They like the fast break, 
Japan, they've been the best te·
a favorite tactic of former coach 
b()UOders sinee\the '40s.
Mahatma Gandhi. 
. \;""'....... 
-

... 

The Observer -Features Monday, March 12, 1979 -page 10 
calling a non-existant foul or missing attempted manslaughter. During the
Reflections ofa Reluctant Ref 
lvfichae/ Buckley half, l went over to the team with The Girl on it and attempted to apologize 
track, watching The Girl's team prac­. me about the woman's game when l for my glarins incompetence. TherOfcourse, this sto!f begins with The 
tice and eventually scrimmage in was in charge of blowing the whistle were all very ruce, told me to just "callWalk. To sec The Gul. 
pre.Paration for the anticipated foe, which I'd never before noticed as a more fOuls" and keep doing "a godI have a girlfriend (hereafter known wh1ch was in the process of destroying spectator. One is that play often job." I apologized again, and as Ia.!f The Girl) at St. Mary's, and since 1 a team in the quanerfmals on the other occurs as though the player's feet are walked away I thought I heardrefuse to trust the Shuttle schedule, I shon court. magnetically connected to the floor, someone say, "He's cute." That'shave made it a hahit to walk oYer to sec By five, the referees for the after­like so man.r amusement park bumper probably what Hitler said abouther whenever that's been required noon's proceedings had begun to lose cars. Few .People shoot jump shots; Neville Chamberlain at Munich. Inep­over the past 18 months. As the a little of their· intensity, and eventu­and everythm~ occurs at a much lower titude isn't much fun, but it's defi­scenery along the road between -the ally all of them had slipped silently altitude than m guy's play. Also, the _ nitely "cute...
two schools tends to become monoto­
away into the gatherins gloom outside. girls tended to be more patient and Determined to improve, I became anous, I have begun to acquire a rather 
Consequently, The Grrl's team, after methodical, yet at times they over­whistle fanatic during the second half. 
scientific attitude about the entire 
over two hours of waiting, faced the passed and missed easier shot oppor­Once 1 realized that they actuallyoperation. Thus, I realize now that it wholly unacceptable prospect of a tunities. There was more helpin~ on believe me when I said I saw a foul ontakes just a shade over twenty minutes · postponement due to a scarcity of defense and less one-on-one actton. a shot, I became more relaxed. Also, 1to be on the phone calling upstairs in zebras. At this point, the author And then there was the intensity. I became increasingly caught up in theHoly Cross Hall after turning the key enters into the proceedings. hadn't counted on that. . game's flow. Both teams were playingto lock my 4th floor dorm room. As 
you mar. gather, 1 value promptness, "Would yo\l mind keeping score?" Girls' games look so friendly h~d, re~izing they'd be in the finals "No, that'd be fme." because thc~re's normally a minimum wtth ~ wm. The Gtrl got in and made
and while my precisely-timed arrivals Little did I realize that during the of body contact and players are often two ruce shots. I was feeling better. ·constantly amuse my at times less­course of my brief journey from the sincerely apologetic after a blatant Nevenheless, all traces of inade­than-punctual friend, 1 nevertheless 
running track onto the dull brown foul. But the gals still play to win. The quacy didn't disappear. One jump ball continue to execute extraonlinarily 
are Angela surface would I become the concentration on their faces through­was much too low and proceeded towell-timed walks which often 
paced by the quarter-hour bells in object of a clever plot. The person who out the game reminded one of Bobby bounce off my head on the tap. An had been keeping score dectded to stay Knight or Woody Hayes, not Dinah occasionaly icy stare still zeroed in on
Sacred Heart. None of this has much put, and thus I walked straight into the Shore. And, like Woody, they knew me. as I putte~ed about, desperatelyrelevance, especially since this Walk 
Jaws of a devastatingly pregnant how to talk.. trymg not to mt~s too much. I forgot totook about 25 minutes and was not to 
••Foul--look at that!" think about calling three seconds until
Holy Cross. However, let us continue. question-­
''Wanna ref?'' ''Oh, come on, ref--jump ball.'' minutes before the game's end. So, IThis particular Walk, partaken on a Being the good spon that I am, I "Will you watch underneath, for prodded along with the intent to call atypically raw, depressing Indiana Feb­
agreed without thinking. After watch­Godsakes." lot more fouls and try not to look tooruary Sunday afternoon, had all the 
ing and playin~ hoops since grade "Are you going to call any fouls! ? " stupid. Somehow, the game endedusual highlights. St. Michael's Laun­school, refereemg dtdn't look that What I soon began to realize was and The Girl's team had come throughdry, 1934, etched in stone. The vain 
tough. that would pass with 44-40
hope that the Shuttle will arrive just as You run around, you get to what often for a satisfying semifinal 
throw up jump balls, you call fouls. No incidental contact in guy's games was triumph.
I arrive at the Grotto stop. The chilling 
looked upon as a foul to these girls. "Thanks alot."
winds off the lakes. Cars going to problem. 
Since I'd worn boots to slosh my way Despite this new knowledge, I was "Oh, you're welcome." 
Moreau. A sli~ht incline, a turn, trying through winter's merry landscape, I begmning to feel flustered. A play They offered to pay me $2. ~0 forto time it so I 11 have a green light on 
31, and then off to an had the initial disadvantage of having would take place, I'd keep my whistle reffmg the game, but I felt it might be 
unusual 
to run around in only my socks. Still, I quiet, and five sets ofeyes would glare in poor taste. Kind of like the U.S.
destination. Today it was to Angela felt confident. The whistle hung at me. Intimidated, I shifted tactics g~we~nment payin~ Sitting Bull for a
Athletic Facility, St. Mary's bastion of out-of-place architecture, to watch The comfortably around my neck. It was and began to go from baseline to mce JOb at Little Big Horn. The offer 
going to be a piece of cake. "O.K. baseline. I Jlcept thinking, ''Is this how refused, I quickly stole away with The Girl play in a pair of intramural Mendy Rudolph got started?" Girl, as if trying to leave the scene of
basketball games. As The Girl is a girls, let's start." 
After a good jump ball, I instantly l:I3.Ifway through the frrst half, I some disjointed crime. 
rather capable athlete, this was-BOt an 
faced up to horrifying reality. I was finally blew my whistle to call a jump The following evening, The Girl'saltogether unpleasant, "one of those 
things you have to do once you've been the only referee. Where should I ball. It surt,rised me almost as much a team went down to defeat in the stand? If I stood out front, I'd miss the ten frustrated players. However, intramural fmals, which I smuggly
dating over a year" affairs. I arrived 
the fact that one ·girl just had her the ice had been broken at long last, watched from the sidelines after yetfive minutes before the 3 o'clock spleen ruptured by a defender's and a ting;e of authority had been another Walk. They had an offictal­game's starting time, only to learn wayward elbow, but if I stood under­exerted. The Timid Ref had made his looking rd with sneakers and every­shortly thereafter that their opponents thing for the championship game, andwouldn't be showing up, and therefore neath, there were inftnite walking ftrst move. 
calls, double-dribbles and illegal picks By halftime, I had blown my whistle 1 could sympathize with her attemptsthey had been given a bye into the 
that could go undetected. Confused, I only four ti:mes and was daydreaming to maintain order in the swirl ofsemifinals, which weren't scheduled chose to stay right around mid-court about the u·anquility of scorekeeping. feminine competitiveness. Mostly,until five. Even for an early enthusi-1 for the frrst few series. It seemed That was easy. Reffing was provmg to though, 1 was glad to be back where I ast, this was an inordinately large time safest. But then the grumbling_ began. be more 10f a challenge than 1'd truly belonged--on the sidelines, notcushion. However, I sat there con­Right away, several features struck bargained for, between the fear of running between the baselines.
tentedly upon the CfV.RCted runnjog 
.. . Hooks 
[conhntledfr011J page 9} leader like Dr. ~g to galvanize and and this had protound affect. back to what I sa1d. Any leader who louisiana. We couldn't operate in the pull tOJether black people. If Dr. Walton: Is there a legacy after Dr. died now, ten years from now would be name of the NAACP. The other King, m his lifetime, had had one­King? Have any of the new leaders viewed as the leader. But during the movements, the younger people, tenth of the adulation and following ft.lled the ~ap? Is there a single leader lifetime, that was not so. 
moved forward in certain cities and it that he had after he died, he'd have for the 80 s with the cllarisma of Dr. Walton: The movement had def.tnite was well publicized. Rut in most of the moved this nation forward. King.') direction in the 60's. How does this South, indeed every southern city, 1 In this nation, blac;.k people have a Hoolr: I dm1bt it. But then you have apply to t~e 70's and beyond? 
would suspect that there were twice or very bad habit of worshipping dead to recall that Martin Luther King was Hoou: I m not sure the movement 
three rimes as many cities were there leaders and killing live ones. It's not a single leader. Dur~& ~r. KinJ's had such deftnite directions in the 
was nothing but NAACP, so that the tragic. If I got killed tonight by an lifetime ther·e was Roy w· .1 s leading 60's. This is again the view of word· you used, "considered," was a assassin's bullet, I'd have more NAACP, there was James Forman hindsight. very sood word. It never was true followers tomorrow morning than I'd· with CORE. . I was looking at some of my papers 
then, tt is not true now. It's myth that have if I'd lived 40 more years, . Walton: · But.he was like a focal point the other night, and when the Mont­
the media likes to perpetuate to keep struggling. So, Dr. King, in death, for the movc~ment. gomery bus boycott started they didn't b)ack peop)e divided. Andlmust say, had more followers than he ever had in ask fur the end of se&reJtation. The way 
Hooh: .The focal point was more at his 
they've been very successful at it. that segration worked in Montgomery
What I am tryin$ to suggest is that death th.an during his life. I repeat
Walton: In retrospect. how muc:h of an maybe in the white community his was tha,t black people started being
that. again because I happen to haft
impact did the assassination of Dr. · seated from the middle of the bus to
death may have had a son of profound been with him for those ten years, and 
Martin Luther King have on the civil 
effect, because the first time millions I know how we struggled for money; the rear, ~d white people started 
rights movement? from the m1ddle to the front. The
of white people understood what black constantly OJ!l the verge ofbankruptcy.
Hooh: I think any rime you Jose a man inequitious thing about that was that
people were really trying to say was · Ifit had not been for white people, we
of the brilliance and abiltty Ofa King in · when the bus got filled in front, black
when he died. would not have survived, financially. 
a movement, he is very difficult to people had to get up seat by seat al
I'm not sure that if Dr. King had Death mad1:. him larger than life. 
re~~ce. I don't have the ability at this 
lived another 20 years and spoken that During his lifetime, there was the long as there were any white people 
pomt~ 'ten years after, to say how much standing. All the blacks would be
he'dever have had that attention. For so-called Big Four, Whitney-Young,
-
tt ,has meant, because 1 don't know three· days after his death the media Roy Wilkins, Dr. King, and I can't standing if there was a single white 
what might have happened had he persop standing. ·
was almost totally devoted to Dr. King think of the other person's name right
liv~d. 1 think it will take many more In many pans of the South, black
and his life. They were afraid in this now. 
years .to assess the historic signifi-nation that we were going to have a Philip Randolph was still young people started from the back, to the cance of it. . blood bath. A bloody revolution. enough to be considered a . viable front, but whatever seats they had,
The death of people like a John 
a his they didn't have to get up and leave
So, in peculiar way, death leader. So we have a situation where 
Kennedy, or a Roben Kennedy, 
spread his gospel, almost like the Dr. King was not the one single leader them. In Montgomery they had toAbraham Lincoln, or .Or. King, I think 
actually get up. When pe Mont­! -it takes a long time before lou can tell death of Jesus spread His gospel. It that nostalgic recollections seems to 
was something that as long as Christ want to make him. gomery Improvement Associationthe full impact of it. All can say is 
lived, he was localized, but he died, At that time the NAACP had about started, they asked that whereverthat I miss him personally, the nation 
his prediction was that His death 100 chapters, and 500,000 members black people started sitting from, inmisses him. Yet, there was a strange the segregated pattern, that they did
woula draw all men. and Roy Wilkins was called Mr. Civil
thing that happened. 
not have to move. They did not ask for 
I have not really philosophically Rights by a lot of people. Thurgood
There are literally millions of white 
tried to deal with that question. I was Marshall, up until 1960, was called the end to segregation. They alsopeople, I mean millions, who never 
so dose to Dr. King. I do know that all' He could asked for bus drivers to drive in the 
-
knew what Dr. King stood for as long Mr. Civil Rights in America. 
black areas of town.
the books he ever wrote, all the draw crowds. when he had a chance to
as he lived. They only knew him when 
speeches he ever made, never got the ·go out and speak. There were a lot of Editor's Note: he died. And it is also kind of amusing attention that his death got. People1 leaders, but no one single leader, not This interview will be continued onto ·me, it makes me a little sick too, had to focus on him, focus and listen, then, and there isn't one now. I go tomorrow's Features Page. 
when people say sometimes we need a 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·------------------------------------------­
The Observer Monday, March 12, 1979 -page 11 

Border 
officials warily patrol bridges after protests 
EL PASO, Texas (AP)--bor­der officials on Sunday warily patrolled the four Juarez-to-E1 Paso bridges, where two days of mass protests over deporta­tions saw traffic blocked, Amer­ican flags flung into the Rio Grande, and a 10-year-old girl killed by a motorist. 
Immigration officials at the international bridges linking the two cities said everything appeared normal Sunday morn­ing. No additional security personnel were visible and the one sign of the earlier protests was that only Mexican flags flew over the bridges. 
On Saturday afternoon, when an estimated 650 Mexicans forced shutdown of three of the bridges, a 25-year-old woman identified as an American living in Juarez plowed into demon­strators on the Bridge of the 
Concerning anti-discrimination 
City Council to considerordinance 
STAR CITY, Ark. (AP)--The city council in this tiny Arkansas town is to consider an anti-discrimination ordinance at its meeting tonight following a "wash-in" at a coin-operated laundry whose owner refuses to admit blacks. 
Nineteen black adults and children, carying laundry baskets, demonstrated on Saturday outside the laundry, which has a sign on its doors reading "white only." 
The owner, W. L. Goodwin, locked the doors of the one­room concrete block building and refused to talk with protesters or reporters. However, he did admit white customers. 
The protest was prompted by a federal civil suit filed against Goodwin last May by the North Lincoln County Chapter of the 
National  Association  for  the  
Advancement  of  Colored  
People.  

The protesters said they were members of the local chapter of Arkansas Community Organizations for Reform Now, a statewide citizens action group affiliated with the national ACORN organization. 
Ruth T. Ted, local NAACP president, said the wash-in was organized because the court action was "taking so long." 
In a deposition filed last August in connection with the suit, Goodwin said he would not let blacks use his washing machines ''because they would mess the place up," according to Philip Kaplan of Little Rock, an attorney for Mrs. Ted. 
Goodwin owns two coin­operated laundries in Star City and both have ''white only'' signs on their dors. The protest was held at laundry where Goodwin was working. 
"Ifa court orders h1m to keep it open, then by gum we'll enforce it,'' Mayor Robert Morrison told reporters after the demonstration. 
He said he had been advised by the city attorney that he could not do anything because the matter is pendin~ in court. 
But he promised the protesters he would check the possibility of enacting an ordinance to J?rohibit racial discrimination 1s businesses, and said it would be brought up at the council meeting. 
"I don't worry about color myself. If it weren't for them, I wouldn't be able to keep going," Morrison said. He owns the Dollar General Store in this community of about 2,000 persons, about 60 miles southeast of Little Rock. 
Morrison estimated that about 20 percent of the residents are black. 
The suit against Goodwin, filed in federal court in Pine Bluff, claims that by denying blacks the use of his laundries, he is depriving them of their rights under the Constitution and the 1964 Civil Rights ~ct. 
Kaplan acknowledged that ''The issue now is whether the federal court has jurisdiction in the case." 
APPLICATIONS FOR STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

CABINET POSITIONS 
are available in the S.G. offices 
for info call 7668 
due March 16 

a special Treat for Those Staying Late for Break: € Stubent lJniOn CultURal aRts CommiSSIOn V€RY PROUbly PR€S€TltS 
'The matquise of 0'. Ill~~~~ ~· .· 
a film by Eric Rohmer 
Thursday, march 15 at 7, 9:15 and 11:30 pm Friday, march 16 at 7 and 9:15 
Engineering Aud. admission Sl.OO 


Americas. A 10-year-old girl tion guards, and El Paso tacti­was killed and a 9-year-old boy cal police units converged on who fell in front of her car was the American side of the border critically injured. · Saturday night, but El Paso 
A group of protestors pulled Mayor Ray Salazar angrily the woman from her car and ordered local police to stay off beat her until police came to her the bridges, which are federal rescue. Mexican authorities property. said the woman was held in Juarez pending the filing of 

Buy Classifieds 
fro~ 

The Observer 
negligent homicide charges. 
It's Coming Fri. March 30th 
The protests were sparked by a crackdown Friday by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service on the flow of illegal aliens from Mexico to El Paso. 
Of 135 Mexican residents deported that day, most were women who were ordered off buses taking them to jobs as maids in El Paso households. The raids returned many of the women to Juarez before they could collect their weekly pay. 
Customs officials, immigra­
-~-­
Advisory panel recommends drugs curbs 
If you're planning 
summer study 
·and live in the _ New York, New Jersey; Connecticut area, there's one school _you should consider. 
' I 
IONA. An independent four year college in Westchester County offering: 
• 
Graduate and undergraduate courses 

• 
Courses you want-in a concentrated time span 

• 
Convenience-dose to home and the City 

• 
An informal, productive atmosphere in air conditioned classrooms 


Summer Session undergraduate courses are offered Monday thru Thursday in the Arts, Business and the Sciences in day, and evening sessions. 
First Day Session-June 4th-July 13th 
Second Day Session-July 9th-August 10th 
First Evening Session-June 4th-July 6th 
Second Day Session-July 9th-August 10th 
Summer Graduate courses are also offered toward an M.B.A. and an 
M.S. in Education. 
Check out lona during your spring break. The Summer Session affords you the opportunity to make-up and get a jump on your Fall programs. 
Check in by completing the coupon, or call for more information. 

-------------------------------NO -· 
• 
Sctlool of Arts and Sc1ence 

• 
School of Business Administration 

• 
Division of General Studies 

• 
Graduate School of Business Administration 

• 
Graduate Programs for Education 

• 
Graduate Division of Pastoral Counseling 


I Dept. C • 715 North Avenue • New Rochelle, NY 10801 
I ­
1 (914) 636-2100 
1I Name _________________________________ 
Please send more -information 
:Address--------------­
about 
1City ______ State ___ Zip ______ 
Summer Sessions I at IONA.
1Telephone______________________________
--------------------------------d 
L_ 
The Observer Monday,March 12;1979-page 12 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A government advisory panel rec­ommended Sunday that curbs be imposed on sales of some vitamins and minerals as non­prescription drugs and that labels mentioning "super po­tency," "natural" or "stress" be banned. 
The Food and Drug Admini­stration panel said only nine vitamins and three minerals should be sold as single ingred­ient, non-prescription drugs. 
The vitamins are· C, B-12, folic acid, niacin, B-6, riboflavin, thiamine, A and D. The ~inerals are calcium, iron and zmc. 
Amon~ the vitamins the panel satd should not be sold as a sin~le ingredient, non-pre­scription drug is Vitamin E. The panel said there was no evidence Vitamin E increases fertility or protects against car­diovascular and other diseases. 
The panel's recommenda­tions, if accepted by the FDA, would not restrict sales of these same vitamins and minerals as food supplements. 

According to industry esti­mates, about three-quarters of the $520 million in vitamins and mineral that Americans buy each year are labelled as food supplements. 
If any therapeutic claims are made on the bottle, then the FDA classifies it as a non-pre­scription drug. 
The panel, headed by Dr. Irwin H. Rosenberg of the University of Chicago Medical School said vitamins sold as non-prescription drugs should be labelled only for the preven­tion or treatment of deficien­cies, and should make clear they are to be used "only when the need for such therapy has been determined by a physi­cian." 
The panel said deficiencies requiring drug treatment with minerals and vitamins usually occur among "special" groups, such as pregnant or lactatmg women, alcoholics or persons with diseases or taking drug that interfere with their ability to absorb vitamins and minerals from food. 
The panel recommended dose limits for the various 

Brademas, 0 'Brien kick-off national phase offupd drive 
Third District Congressman dent Theodore Hesburgh, in John Brademas and former making Notre Dame "an out­Notre Dame football standout standing center of learning, Coley O'Brien kicked-off last known and respected through­Thursday the national phase of out the world.'' The Campaign for Notre Dame, ''The purpose of this most the University's $130 million ambitious fundraising program fundraising drive. we are now undertaking is not 
just to create a great Univer­
In remarks to a meeting of sity, but more importantly to Washington area Notre Dame create the greatest Catholic Alumni, Brademas commended University of all time," Brade­the work of University Presi-mas said. 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Dt.'ft 

t.I.M.KUI­
X  
X X  X X  X  X  X  
Har !1/ZP. Tuer;/W..•d. KaT :!S ~  X X X  X X X  X X  X X  X X  
"-r 28 ~  
X  X  
X  X  
X  X  
Mar 29 Thurs.  X  X  

vitamins and minerals. lt warned that large doses of Vitamin C--more than a gram a day--may cause kidney and bladder problems." It said manufaturers should not claim Vitamin C can cure the common cold. 
The panel said terms such as "stress," "super potency" and "geriatric" should not be allowed on the labels, and products should not be called "natural" because there is no evidence that natural vitamins and minerals are better than synthetic ones. 
The study is part of an FDA review of all non-prescription drugs. After getting public comments, the agency will draw up a monograph or ''recipe book" of ingredients it consid­ers safe and effective in non­prescription vitamins and min­erals. 
Eventually, that monograph will be issued as a regulation, and manufacturers will have to make their products conform to its restrictions. 
The panel's rep0rt will appear in the Federal Register on Friday. Public comments can be sent within 90 days to the Hearing Clerk, FDA, Room 465, 5600 Fisher's Lane, Rockville, Md. 20857. 
Chesetron Process Equipaent Division B tn Acct or Fin. MBA with with Acu or Fin bkgrd or concentration. Food Processing Equi~ent. Location: Jeffersontown, ICY;. Pittsburgh, PA. Pem. Res. Visa required. (Changed from 3/29) 
Equitable Life Assurance (Changed to April 9). 
Voluar Shoe Corporation B in Lib. Arts (vith ea-e retail experience). BllA and MBA. J.etail Shoe Stores. For: Merchandisers. Location: Topeka, lS. Pen. Res. Viaa required, 
ACTION -Peace CorpslYISTA JH in all disciplines. 
Allstate Insurance Co BH in all disciplinea. 
Burrouahs We llc:oiae Co Pharmaceutical Ca~~~pany. 8 in Lib. Arts, Bus. Ad, Sci. For: Kedical Representative. Locations: Various locations throughout U.S. Citizensbip required. 
Ball St.aU! University. M.llster of Urban and Reaional Planning. B in Lib. Arts. 
c.-carlintron Fasteners. B in Hkt, Hkt, HEIO. For: Develop­ment Training Prograa for positions in Sales, Appli­cations engineering, Quality control, Product Design and developa~ent, ttanufacturing, Supervision. Locations: Illinois~ Indiana, Virginia and lO'olla. Perm. Res. Visa required. 
Coachmen Industries, Inc B in Hkt for Sales. All BBA for Purchasing, Production Management. 8 in all Engr disciplines for various E:ngr positions, Industrial Design. 
Perkin-Elmer Rescheduled from february 22. 8HD in AE, EE, Engr Phys, Engr Mech, Hath, Comp Scl. 
L. S. Ayrel:i Company Retailing. 8 in Lib. Arts and Bul:i. Ad. For: Management Training Progr11111. Locations: South Bend and Indianapolis. Perm. Res. Visa required. 
NCR Corporal ion Electronic Terminals and Computers. All BBA. For: Administrative Manager Trainee. Location: South Bend, Ind. Citizenship required. 
Prucieulial Insurance Co Hultl-LJne Insurance. B In T,ib. Arts and Bufi. Ad. for: Sales representatives leading to Sales Management. Prlmarlly Hiles, Edwardsburg and St. Joseph, Hl. Will rehr to ·ather Michigan Offices. PenD. Res. Visa req. 
Walker Rel'learch, Inc Marketing Research. 8 in Hkt1J Responsible for conducting and directing complete research projects under the supervision of the Account Executive. Location: lnd ianapoJ is, IN. Citizenship required. 
X 

X 

The Observer Monday, March 12, 1979 -page 13 
College Bowl Regionals IX 
U of Illinois 
Uoflll 215 
SIU Carbondale 250 SUIC 
Illinois State 245 
SIU Edwardsville 190 
lNDState lndianna State 
325 , 270 
lND State 255 
Franklin 60 
themeOJevalJnstJtute seeksafew qooo sruoents fonthe colleqtate sequence 1n meOtevalctvtlrzatton 
contact Ralph mcln€Rny, biR€ctoR anb ffiiclla€1 p. (jRaC€ PRO~€ssoR o~ ffi€bi€VM Stubi€S 
'In VlnO V€Ritas.' 
2e",-6604 
as€laRb 
The faculty and students ofthe General Program of Liberal Studies invite all members ofthe Freshman Oass, and others interested in joining the program ,~to a social and informational meeting at 7:30pm Monday March 12, 1979 in the Memorial Ilbrary Lounge. 
Decorate with Ex cAccents 

Student ao~ff
Bonus Any B.eguiuly Priced Item 
Redeem this certificate with your purchase at your local Pier 1 Imports. Discount not applicable to sale items. Customer must pay any sales tax. Coupon void where prohibited, taxed or restricted by law. SKU: 059901 
• 
Pier 1 Imports lOOCenter Mishawaka 
-------.
r----------~------------------------­
The Observer -Sports Monday, March!~, 1979 -page 14 


45 Of bees 18 Constella­
... Bengals
47 Seed cover tion, the 48 Records Wolf 
[continued from page 15)
50 Breakfast 23 Longtime food 24 "-lively!" 
connection. Mynesberge, 
51 Inquire 25 Shrewder 
pummeled a tired McCabe at 
54 Shiftless 26 Obtain by 
the outset of the third round 
55 Primitive begging 
only to receive a retaliatory
58 Outward 27 Fields 
barrage seconds later. The
show 28 Tarzan's 59 Knobby friend 
boxers ended the fight pound­
60 Theatre 29 Sweetens ing away at each other to a 
seat the pot 
standing ovation. 
61 Nautical 31 Bore 
In a close brawling fight,

word 32 Stupid 
Bruce Belzer outbullied Terry
62 Drab shades 34 Like a cer­
Rogers to a split decision and
63 Hole or pad tain bucket 37 Persian 
the 162 pound crown. Belzer 
DOWN distance· 
tried to work inside while 
1 Roman unit 
Rogers kept him away with a 
statesman 38 Calaboose 
wild roundabout. Belzer
2 Cyclops, 40 Gointo 
clinched the decision in the
for one bankruptcy 
third round as he ducked inside 
3 Impecunious 41 Fetch 
4 Plant or 44 Nautical 
successfully to score the final 
shell lines 
points in the fight. 
5 Crowds 46 Actor John 
An overly a~gressive Tom 

6 Subsidized Howard-
Flynn stalked his opponent for
7 Yucatan 47 Marshal 
three rounds taking and dishing 
native 48 Gluckor 
out punishment and earning the 
8 Insect Mater study: abbr. 49 Catch 
167 pound division title in the 
9 Vessel re-50 Portend 
process. Flynn threw every­
. enforcement 51 Shortly 
thing he could find at Bengal
52 Cooking10 Ballet or 
titlist]im Devine and staved off 
herbCharlotte 
a third round flurry to capture
53 Swiss11 Type of ape 
the unanimous decision.
artist 56 City div. 
12 Leavein 
Matt "Droopy Drawe.rs"
neutral 57 Sort 

O'Brien landed a hellacious right in the first round sending Mike Pullano down for the mandatory ten count and then 
13 Entrance 

Michael Molinelli jabbed his way through the 

final two rounds to earn a unanimous decision in the 177 pound weight class. Pullano recovered from the first round cruncher admirably but solved the awesome right of his opponent too late in the bout. 
In the premeir heavyweight bout, Sean McCormick showed a lot of "guts" but couldn't get more than a second round knockdown against Kim Uniacke as Uniacke finessed his way to a split decision. McCormick's swift left and a right follow scored first but Uniacke responded with a longer jab that forced McCormick into clinching cost­ing him the fight. 
NBC plans to air the Bengal

. . . Islamic council 
Bouts special on Sunday, March 18th from 5-6 p.m. 
The Daily Crossword 
3/12/79
© 1979 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. All Rights Reserved 
Molarity 
ACROSS 1 Contend (with) 
5 "-at Sea" 1o Foray 14 Excited 15 In good 
spirits 16 Dismantle 17 Cave 
dweller 19 French city 20 Finished, 
poetically 21 Eye part 22 Portion 
of bacon 24 Hastened 25 Sardonic 
expression 26 Spiny plant 29 Furthermore 
30 Unmatched 33 Pains' other h;~lf 34 Pungent 
bulb 35 Grand­36 Wet blanket 37 Eucharistic 
plate 
38 Becom•e affiliated with 
39 Muffin 40 Flim-flam 
artist 41 Lades 42 Psychic: 
initials 43 Mars 44 Keep a 
tight hand on 

[continued from page 2) been turned into night.'·  of the most -powerful people in Iran.  the absence of effective police and while a national guard is  
The council's control of day­to-day life in Iran -through the revolutionary committees -is amply demonstrated by the situation in the capital. A network of 14 revolutionary committees is operating throu~hout Tehran under the direction of Mohammad Reza Mahdavi-Kani, a 47-year-old white turbaned mullah who says he was appointed directly  Mahdavi-Kani operates from behind a desk, covered with a battery of constantly ringing telephones, in a small cubicle in the 70-year-old Majlis -parlia­ment -buildings in the heart of Tehran. Each of the Tehran commit­tees, he says, is divided into sub-committees ''responsible for such activities as security, intelligence, distribution and  being created, he says he has the cooperation of both Islamic and Marxist guerrillas. Meanwhile, he says, "We are quite confident we can maintain security. " Even after the national guard is operating, he said, the revolutionary committees will still maintain overall responsibility for their supervision.  
by Khomeini but with the approval of Bazargan. His overall command of the hundreds of committees all over the country also makes him one  control ofarms and ammunition and relief operations such as the provision of food and cloth­ing.'' To maintain law and order in  The running of the national guard is expected to be the responsibility of a close Khomeini aide, Dr. Ibrahim Yazdi, who is also a deputy  

ATTENTION OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS ARE YOU CONCERNED ABOUT: 
HOUSING QUAilTY NEIGHBORHOOD DETERIORATION TRANSPORTATION 
I would like to share myviews with you on thes~e problems and listen to your concerns at an informal · discussion on Tuesday March 13 6:30pm LaFortune lounge 
BILL RICHARDSON DEMOCRAT FOR MAYOR 
prime minister in the Bazargan 
Tlxonsale

government. Tickets for the Mideast 
Yazdi said recently that Regional, to be held at the "competent" armed guards Market Square Ai'ena in Ind­maintaining security for the ianapolis, IN, will be on sale at committees will ''gradually be­the second floor ticket windows come part of the national at the ACC today from 9 AM to 
guard." 

5 PM, and will also be available on Tuesday from 9 AM to 12Ma?davi-Khani says existing noon.
secunty arrangements in the These tickets will be issued oncapital have brought about a a first come, first serve basis,dramatic fall in the amount of and there is a limit of one ticketcrime. He was unable to say per student. Each Notre Dame exactly how many political and and St. Mary's student may?ther prisoners are being held present only his or her own IDm Tehran, but he believed it card. Pnce is $18, whichwas less than the 4,000 report­includes both re~ional semifinaled. 
games on Fnday and the championship game on Sunday. 

michnel&co. 
Hair Concepts 
'Hair designs for Men &Women, with the· emphasis on Easy Care' open late tues.-thurs. 8pm North ~ mile east of notte dame 18381 Edison at lnd 23 272-7222 South 2041 E.lteland at ltonwood 
master charge visa 291-1001 
The Observer -Sports Monday, March 12, 1979 -page 15
-


... Bengals 
(contmMellf,'Vm page 16) 
Man'' then proceeded to give the rookie from Flanner a boxing lesson until the referee called it quits for the evening. 
The th1rd trip proved to ~e the charm for Walt Rogers m the 14) pound weight division as the boxing c~u~ officer won. a unanimous deos1on over rookie Tom Bush. Rogers, who had lost in the finals his flCSt two Years, used a long left and a hitting Bush at bay. B1,1Sh went for the KO in the third round but a crafty Rogers was not to be"had"as he counte.tpunched his way to the title. 
Tony Ri~ci went a~~t his business with great precision as he made easy work of 1im Mladenik en route to his thlrd Bengals crow~ ~ three tries. The Flanner Junior came out sharp scoring with a left-right Ricci continued to stalk his (>rey in the second round and CIUlsed through the fmal act to lay claim to his third title. 
Norton recorded two strong rounds in the 152 pound weight class which was sOod enous~ to earn him a unantmous dec1s1on over JeffMitroka. Norton's left scored occasionally in a rather quiet flCSt two roun~ ~fore Mitroka made a futal b1d m the continued to score. 
In one of the closest fights of the night, Steve Mynesberge was awarded a split decision over Tom McCabe in the IH pound division. The first round was quiet as Mynesberge threw more punches with no damage being done. McCabe took the offensive in the second stanza ducking his opponents jab to get inside and make a heavy 
right cross to keep the b'Ig Classifieds Need rides to or th= Albany, NY forNotices break. ShareS and dr vlng. Steve 3191. -Need ride to Bloomington, IN March 16, Notice: Mary S. Is a thief and she loves Chris 351)8 cr1sco and body palnt. Furthermore, she steals keys to motel rooms Two students need ride to Lauderdale ApollO area OY8f' break. Will share drlvl~ and expenses. Call Pat 1827 or Mike 28 -8359 Notice: Theresa P. has halr that hurts and she smells like spaghetti. Not only Oespera, In need of ride to NYC or that but she's not evan worth thirty-seven Long Isla lor~~~ break. Don't leave cents. me stranded In ut Band! Call Brian Apollo 8671 surro:rt your local used bookstore-stock Help! Need ride to N.J. or anywhere near up or break. Pandora's hlst~ section lor spring break. Call Dan at1431. on 2for 1sale--Happy Hour Frl ar 3-6. Behind N.D. apartments. 23-234 . Two guys desperately need ride to Albany-Kingston-NYC aree for March break. Call Jim or Craig at 1225. Will proffer eternal gratitude (and gas) to Nocturne Nlghlfll9.ht. WSND-89FM, Rick kind soul who can ~et me to O'Hare ~ Lane features ' The Music of David noon March 17. PL ASE call Chris 312 . Bromberg" tonight, 12:15. Need ride to Atlanta GA for break. Can leave Wednesday afternoon. Call 4·1-4334 or 1001Lost & F_ound Desperate: Need ride to Atlanta. Will Lost (or rather stolen): OK, you took mY. share expenses can leave March 15 after wallet from my locker at the Rock. I don t 10 a.m. Call Joe at 8583 care about the money. but I do need the IDs. So have the decency to return It to Wanted: ride for 3 to D.C. or Northern Lost and Found or me. No questions VA lor break. Can leave after 2pm on the asked. Tim Tedrlck-6703. 16th. Call Rod·-8384 or leave note In Observer office. Lost or stolen: ladles size 8brown leather Eloves. Please return to 339 Walsh or Need ride for 2 to Maryland·DC area for ost & found In the Ad Bldg. spring break. Will share expenses and driving. Please call Karen 4-1-4522. Lost: diamond ring, extreme sentimental value. No questions asked. $25 reward. Need ride for 2to Ft. Meyers Florida over Julia 41·5407. break. Can leave Wed. Call Brian 1423. Found: Sliver Cross pen In 127 Nleuland. Need ride to Long Island for s~rlng break. Call 8786. Will share In expenses. Call ohn at 3507 Lost Wednesday mornln~-keys on sliver Need ride to Dallas for spring break. Call k~ ring with Initials J M. Pleeu call Mary Meg at 8037 21 2 Need ride to Buffalo or Nla~ra Falls for Lost: Maroon wallet, alll~ator ~pe Spring break. Will share In a I expenses. leather. Please, please call f faun !! Call Jean at 8037 ~ 7135 or 272-4909. Need ride home for March break. Golnft Lost: "Loonle Yonle" ski hat--It has West on 1·80 to Des Moines, Iowa. Ca great sentimental value-Creme colored Scourge 2136 with the a~lnt. Please return to Yunle: 289­Dtlpel'ltely need ride to New Y art City 1111 for break. PLEASE caN Monica It lost: 1brown weight lifting belt with the c.1-4m name white engraved on lt. Lost In the ACC we~ room. If found please call I need aride to CT. PLEASE. (Even NYC Mike at 9. or New Jersey will do-l'm that desper· ate). Call Frank at 3213. Lost: Thurs. night at the Goose's Nest. A blue down coat with car keys In the Mlnnnota: need ride to St. Paul. Call pocl(et. Call 8446. Kathy 3845. Can leave March 16 or 15. Heir' Need ride to eastern NY for break. WII share expenses. Please call SharonFor Rent 41-4259-House for rant. summer only, close to Need ride to Conn. Can leave after Wed. campus. Excellent condition, will accom-Call 41-4363 odate one to five students. For lnforma· tlon contact Greg Cress 287-5361 even-Desperately need ride for 2 people East lngs. (Mass., Conn., N.Y.) for break. Please call Steve 8322 or Kathy 5236. Available for August--five bedroom house--Completely furnished. Call Need ride to Ft. lauderdale area for 234-9364 after 5:00p.m. break, call1219 lWINS NEEDED: Non-illabatlc, same­S8IC frlterllll twins 1~ J: oldWanted needed for study related to ablltes at Indiana Unlversl~Medical Center. Gultarlatslllngers needed for 2 maaes: fMtlng lncludlls 2 r ~ucose tolerance 5:15 Sat. Sacred Helrt; 5:00 Sun. K1111111 test, dentll exam. Each nreceives $20 Call Nick 3Z16. and all test results. For more Information call, Clndy Burnett 317-264-22..s.flirt ........... _ .......... ...,.... ...... Cadi Plllt m Need rldlr anywlllre ,_. Ellt to PA. Ctlltllate ........ 1111111 ......... Lllvl.. Man:ll11i 1.11. Call11211. till Ad~"'* c.•lllllr et ZJZ-GI7. Need ride back from Des Moines, Iowa::¥ skiing over break? Or just golnft after break. Call Rita 5154. 1need rlderl to Colorado. ca John at 1991. Ride need to Pittsburgh. Will drive and For Sale shire:;rsn-· Can leave Thurlday.Mike 5 Going t!l r=Jorida?? Excellent transporta· Uon: 1986 Dodge, PIS auto, V-8, IndianaNeed ride to NYC area-Northern New lnspllCted. 288-51158, &-11 p.m.Jllrley, New York, or Long Island-can Ieiva Thursday-WII share driving and ·1-1974 Pinto wagon, good gas mil=,IIXJMIIIS8S. Rob, 11532 or 8528 =tonal engine, good rubber. $1, , , mil•. Call after 4:00, 272-5418HELP11 flllllllrNI ....... IIYtar M1k.WIIIIIIn .....llll .......&Ill-et 4-1--4211. . .  combo to Mladenik' s head. last round as Norton's left (conlinMed on page 14] All classified ads must be received by s:oo p.m.. two dars prior to the issue in which the ad is run. T!11 Observer off1ce w11 accept classitieds Monday through friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All cla~sitieds must be prei)aid. either in person or through the ma11. 1-Homellte chain saw. E·Z-161nch bar, It's coming! Nm music comJr!Uon-Lynn Robers and Maureen For111 ar:e2 chains, ca~n~case, good condition. March 30th. ENTER YO R ACT lecturing tonight In the library auditoriumCall after 4: • 2 -5418. TODAY! (Deadline Is Tues. March 13th) on "Sexuality and the Double Standard" at 8:00lem. Sponsored by the Nursingfor sale: Yamaha FG230 12 atrlneogultar. SENIORS: Tlcbtl111 ult fir SENIOR Oept. there, alolla. o~ used 6 months. Asking S1 . can FORMAL March 12-14, Mlrcll = 7 . 12, Llfortulll LlbbJ 1Z.Z LIMiu AnENTIONN, lldl: $45/CIU~ lncludll:USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., SUn. I'ICipllon, dlnllll', and ANCING This Is a public apoi~-Andrew R.9-7 Ralft:: Casperson 1303 Buchanan Pavelcho Is not Polish. Therefore,Road, Nles. 683-2888. Markaters: vote Tuesd~ neither Is he astud! We ~ret this grossVote THE DAVE CLAR E 5 error In judgement, a submit ourFor sale: ski boots, Hanson britt blue Dave Clarke, Kathy Field, Stephanie humblest apologies. Rumor has It that he3M fits size 8 112 to 10. Cost 162 last Phillips, John Callaway and an excellent Is really Slavic with trace of Italian!~·used one ski week. Mint condition, MKT. Club. . 289-1445 Glenn,REDHEADS: Meetlrl_\ Tuesday, March Since you're probably expecting aTandberg 9000 taperecorder for sale. 13,oftheREDHEADL AGUE.at6:301n personal by now, hare goes...Excellent condition. $500, firm. Keenan Conference room. (Bring $2.00 Go suck an egg!288-6748 dues, please.) Maureen Foran-Did you ever tell TomAttention Saint Mary'sII about dl~lng one night wearing myNow's your chance to give that specialPersonals sweat pan ? someone (I.e. Domer, roommate, pro-GMLlessor, best enemy, etc.) c;.rcrsonalln tile Beth, Obumrll Contact the S Coffice In the Tom Clarkson and Lynn Roberts are1was going to send you a dozen roses, basement of Regina South or call 5365 engaged. Talk about an "Odd Couple."but you wanted a personal Instead. (from 12·1 pm) for more Information!! love, B.A.D.H. with gtatlns hips-knows theMJB GET YOUR ACT TOGETHER! worm, disco D.., an loves knock onEnter the Nazz Music Competition.•• wood. But It's no tragedy In McArthurMary Jean, entry blanks available until Tues. March ParkAre you sure this Is the first one? 13th. Check poster for more details! Bob For the K of C,WE'RE BACK IN THE SADDLE AGAIN I thank thee,WARNING: Chuter the Molliter It an Sarah Grathwohl CurtJs formerly of Ye Kansas Residentthe l'lmiJigl ljlln. All young girls keep Lau~hln' Place, Is now Instructing at Whose Lady Madonna comparesyour doars 1n wfndaws lockld. Kel Hell's Stable In Niles, Michigan. with any reclining figuresHeated Arena/4 maximum In class/Eng Frank Kebe has absolutely no class and ltsh or Western/4 lessons-In advance So as you go klckln~ the leaves throughno sense of professionalism. It's a pi~ he $40/ThursdaJc evenings. Saturday after-this and other scr pts-remember yousold out In the end--and to the EIGH , of noons. Call oHell after 7:00 at 683-4467 have to look forward to: Bon Voyage,all people. moonshine, and partnershipsEPS ettanUon martetlng maJors Remember us when voting on Tues., Good things take time and come to thoseND-SMC CHICAGO HAPPY HOUR, March 13. who waltEmerald tale, Thursday, March 22, Jeff Stahl-Pres. 8:06-m Rand~ (Bubba) Kozak-VIce President Karen-Kay eROChe-Secretary It's about time you got areal personal.Attention Mlrkltlng Club M11nbt11 John (Duff) Duffy--Treasurer -Weirdo-Vote Verduga, Mlhoney, Finn, Thanks! Rogalski on TillS. 3113. You'11 tht best, To Red (Mary Ann)thlt'a why Wl'l1 for yaull Nazz Music Com,x:tttlon Just wanted to let you know you're theThankll arch 30 funkiest person In my dreams and you'veFor info. call Gene (1803) or Mary (7375) not so bed In real life either. Thanks forKathy S. the B.D.P. It was a rush.Have fun with that mother, the AnENTIONI AnENTIONI The Old Gafferchildren. the brother John, and of course Want some excitement Mr spring THE PRINCE. break??? And do vou Wlnt to makl big WATCH OUT-Mary bucklin tfla pi'GCIIIm The other 'little girl' Is Into blg "D"Sound lmr.:ble? No way. All yeu action. You better check you necks!!Karen L. hl¥1 to do 1 11QIIIIr for the American She·s on the looseIYou got a Job-so get lost. Volunteer Army ef Chlftl bltwlen now Mary lnd Marcil 16. Tl'llllportatiOII, 1110111, K.L.K.board, 1nd thou cute little Chlneu You're the greatest! I Have fun!"Brad-Lee" unHorma 111 FREE, and yeu 11m ZO,OOII J. and D.We know Who you are and we saw that yen for you lffetta. you did. (Pracleda uud to lllldrrbody back H~ FisherIf IThe Lee Sisters to tile Stltn, If nqulred. o for Hicksville, Bum, and LV. !II (Lovely) Natl: 111101111n Chlneu langu1ge not Included. FRAN CACKLEY, alias Franno,Attention Dayton Domersll Post St. Patrick's Day party at Dixie Spring Break $$$$$$ has been named this ~·sElectric Co. Wednesday, March 21, 10 Help wanted stripping woodwork. In old recipient of Steve Martin's "G AVY p.m. Be There! hollse in South Bend. $3.00 per hour. AWARD." Next time youNeed several ¥uys to work during spring see her, give her acongratulatory " Ink"Patsy, breal<. Call 2 2-5808. I hear the sun melts hot wax!! PHIL KLEY, beloved big bro of Thanb everybody!! Especia~ SUe, DonHappy 2Znd htl Arndt ThankS for Unda, Maureen R., ftlta, Judy ., Judy and Jo ofF• Hall Is being suedeverything. R., M.-yellen. Gl~er, And~ Anne T.,Love, Maureen H., Mary ., Fltz, ony, Mike, Sean,Tarrt Hawn and stleryl. Thanks for the bit ot springtime.Vev made my 21st aday (and night) to R1l11111Rblll' l.t , 8. and by the WIY, how Is SMO (Sim's 91rlfrlendlia remeinber. the I.S. colllctlon?I miss you I ready. ve a good week 11ove vou aU. "Louie's friend"and don't wreck the regalI Monica (aliaS Monzo)Love, Mary W. tlave I Hrt:.,Birthday. HopeVEL Mike Howard, your dly luuper. 1 fun vacation! Therosenre beautiful. Thinks again. love,The Cl'lllel till bllcult It 1111 apllboplle­love, Krlst\n,Sllllk Ylltlldl wHit fmk Sea Monica Michele,-... Marltza, andJoln S.P.O.N.O. HEY ctftCAIO.fiO-sMC =r.l ' Dianelet's Q1Jt tall ~.1111¥21 ,.,.., ....;,...... u ..... ~r· ..... Herels Julie Lennon's :'7own peraonalChrlay, ,.....,llldperty Have a ~ time In lorlda-wlah IHappy Birthday. were there I Take lots ot pix and comeHow about acandlelight dinner at your AI "Silx-Amachlne" Neiman: back alive!place. ttew "Haircut's'' sug:r:t KThe Manager · Admiring COild Zelda ftay II fieldIn' fur Galveston fur HeJWUII, . Tom Clllbon-Are you really riving up break, to wllh w a bon voy~gelappy Birthday, HONI on 8eclcy and Candy? (Hell noLove, HI SmlqlWus Ma111111rt foran and Lvnn Roberta-Are you Ol)lng to let Andy cry himself to sleep Mike Galvin,Dear ORF, every niQht? No abuselt\ls time! Bet yau had .....Happy 8-dayll Have 1 wild break! Wllekend, but then, r:: II~have ....love, Wherever .YIJU 8:: Wllllkendal Is It atll on for l1day?Ml1th Whai.Mr~ . Who II•?Have. terrific SpOng break! All..t .......,.. loveJ:'·.. .. ·. ·:~);.·;; ..J; ~­M M ·.·.:' ·.·_ ,, •• c .' ~ • .  
.. ' ..  .. ;. ,• ..:; :,-~~::..... i:·.~·-.;/:. 0 :  

-
•' '•.
.;:~,·: . '.. i; ,. '• 
.. ·J.·· '. : --~~::··.~··.·~: ~ ' . 
., 
.·.· .. (· '···· ___ 
-------------------------------------~--­
S12orts 
Trip Vols 73-67 
ND ends Dorothy's dream 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Wn"ter 
MURFREESBORO, 1N-Re­member Dorothy? You know, the sweet little girl who dream­ed her way down the yellow­brick road to Emerald City. She wanted to go back to Kansas, and kept asking everyone she met how to get there. In the end, Glinda, the good witch, (are there good witches?), woke her up and Dorothy realized it was all a dream. 
There was a rerun of the movie yesterday. in Murphy Coliseum in Murfreesboro, 1N. with just a few variations. ·'Dorothy" was played by Tennessee basketball coach Don DeVoe. He wanted to go to Salt Lake City and he kept telling everybody his team could do it. But when it was over, De Voe, like Dorothy, realized it was all a dream. 
This time Digger Phelps and his Fighting Irish cagers flayed the spoilers with the fina score reading 73-67-.-the Irish on top in this second round of the NCAA Mideast Regional play­offs. The victory gives Notre Dame the right to take on Toledo in Round III on Friday night in Indianapolis' Market Square Arena. 
With those details out of the way, the ~arne story reads something hke this. The Irish, starting slow, fell behind 26-20 at the 6:20 mark of the first half. Six straight points tied the game and the half ended in a 32-32 deadlock. 
After the break, Digger Phelps had his team counter the Vol attack with a full-court press. Three turnovers later the Irish led 38-32 and they never looked back again. 
"Dan Nee called me Friday night after scouting the Tennessee-Eastern Kentucky game and he said he thought Tennessee could be forced to commit turnovers,'' explained Phelps when asked why he opened both halves in a press. 
"We talked about it and I decided we had the right per­sonnel to go with the press. As things turned out, It worked pretty well. " 
Statistically, Notre Dame shot a solid 51 percent from the field with Kelly Tripucka's 21 points leading the way. Bill Hanzlik followed with 16 markers while Bill Laimbeer chipped in 12 points and hauled in a game-high 12 rebounds. 
For the Vols, Gary Carter was high-point man with 16 points while Reggie ] ohnson had 13 and Johnny Darden and Chuck Threeths, ten apiece. 
"It was really an intense game for us,'' sighted De Voe after the game. ''We wanted to win, we thought we could win, but we just didn't get the necessary firepower from Terry Crosby and Reggie Johnson. 
Crosby agreed. · 
"If Reg and I had been hitting, it would have been a different game," he said. 
DeVoe had some interesting thoughts about the officiating in a game where 53 personal fouls were called. 
''I was definitely not satisfied with the way the game was called," he commented. "I didn't see one jump-ball thrown up properly. Did it make a difference? I don't know. It 
might have.'' 
Digger didn't think so. 
"Bill Laimbeer made a differ­ence," Phelps said. "That's what I think. He dominated the game. Iguesshejustwantedto play Toledo (Laimbeer's home­town) in Indy. 
''We won because we played as a team. We executed, thought, and worked like a team. We are a team ... a very good team." 
So, for the Irish, the Yellow Brick Road leads to Market Square Arena and a chance to wm the mythical National Championship in Salt Lake City 

Letterfrotn a lonely sportswriter 
TO: Mr. Joseph Calzfano 
Department ofHealth, Education and Welfare Washington, D. C. 
FROM: Crazg Chval 
The Observer 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Dear Joe, 
Last week I read in the paper that r.ou have decided that football and basketball wtll not be exempted from the wrath ofTitle IX, the brilliant piece of legislation that, among other things, · requires colleges and universities that receive federal funding to spend an equal per capita proportion of their budget on men's and women's athletics. 
You were quoted as saying that you don't have any sympathy for football and basketball programs, the same programs that generate the funds to enable non-revenue sports to exist. 
Quite frankly Joe, I'm not interested in your sympathy. I'm more concerned with your level of intelligence, which I find questionable. I get the feelmg that you and the leather-lunged women's advocates that have the Washington politicians running scared are trying to create the impression that the athletic administrators across the country are waging war against women's programs. 
If that's the case, I invite you to stop off in South Bend the next rime you're in the neighborhood. Come by and talk with Notre Dame baseball coach Tom Kelly, who doesn't have enough uniforms to go around for his 32-man team. Or maybe you could go along with Coach Rich Hunter and the soccer team on one of their road trips--if they could manage to squeeze one more person in the van, that is. 
In the event that there isn't room, stick around and see the junior varsity soccer team play on the field near Stepan Center, and keep track of the number of twisted ankles. Better bring one of your aides for that, though. Sometimes the
-
count reaches double figures. I'm sure you'll like their uniforms. They were paid for by Rich Hunter's father. People often speak of Notre Dame's football history in terms of myths. Let me dispell some of those myths for you. When Father Sorin founded the University in 1842, he didn't include five or ten million dollars in the budget and proclaim that the Fighting Irish would become the most gloried name in college football. And 

Craig 
Chval 
ABC-TV wasn't there while Knute Rockne was coaching Notre Dame to a 9-0 record in 1920, before home crowds of about 10,000. 
There are two other things that you fail to recognize, Joe. One, that football and basketball provide the money necessary to continue non-revenue sports--for both men and women. By including football and basketball under the jurisdiciton of Title IX, you are cutting off your nose to spite your face. The loss of the income contributed by those sports would leave administrators in a situation similiar to where Jesus fed the multitude with loaves and fishes. It makes interesting reading, but I don't think the nation's athletic directors can stretch a dollar quite that far. 
The second fact that you're ignoring is that merely unloading a Brink· s truck in front of the women's athletic department won't instantly create a rabid interest in women's athletics. Sports is big business now, Joe, and the age-old law of supply and demand applies. When the day arrives that fans will pay to see a women's field hockey match, then a dramatic increase in spending will be in order. Of course, the same rule of thumb would hold true for men's field hockey. 
Don't get me wrong. I'm not a male chauvanist pig who'd like nothing better than to see women's sports destroyed. But by taking money away from football and basketball, you would eventually kill off all sports, both men's and women's. 
In case nobody ever told you, Joe, you have to spend money to make money. Implementing Tale IX would mean decreased scholarshifs, and an eventual, inevitable fall-off in the leve of competition. And lest you forget, most universities are bumping heads with profession­al sports leagues for the consumer's spoJrts dollar. 
Best wishes,]oe, and I certainly hope Health and Welfare are going well, because you're doing a swell job of screwing up Education. 
Yours truly, 
Craig Ch,ral 

Monday, March 12, 1979 -page 16 

Tennessee 73-67 to earn the nght to face Toledo Thursday. 
on March 26.  back to Knoxville, 1N.  
For  Don  DeVoe  and  his  So much for "the wonderful  
Volunteers,  the  road  heads  Wizard ofOz," 'eh Don?  

NBC films Bengal finals, Ricci captures third title 
by Ray 0 'Bn"en one of the most exciting nose­
Sports Editor to-nose battles of the night. 
Both fighters inflicted punish­The 49th Annual Bengal ing blows in the final round but Bouts came to a close last night it was a Borgatti right that sent 
before an enthusiastic crowd 
Romano down at the final bell and NBC's television cameras. c~inching his unanimous deci­Steve Gill got things started Sion. in the 125 pound division as he In a closely fought SJ?Iit 
came out firing against oppon­decision, joe Viola's left Jab ent Chris MacDonald. outpointe Bob Rivera's lethal MacDonald counter punched roundabouts. Rive-ra played the his way through the first two aggressor throughout but found rounds but the non-stop Gill his donwfall m the second wore down his opponent and round when he looked a Viola used a left jab to drop right hook into the face sending 
MacDonald before the final bell him in search of his corner rang as Gill was awarded the when the bell rang. unanimous decision. Mike Masurek proved too 
In the 130 pound weight much for J effMosher in the 140 class, Doug Borgatti proved to pound weight class as he be the cream of the crop as he carded the only TKO of the outboxed a highly touted field night coming at 1:07 of the to take the crown. Borgatti second round. Masurek's used his reach to offset Rocky sharp right hit paydirt early Romano but the scrappy ex­stunning Mosher. The "Old 
[continued on page 15]

champ kept coming, leading to 





