. Irish defeat Dons page8
' ' 
VOL. XIII, NO. 65 
Vandals hit student cars 

in D-llot 
Tom jackman StaffReporter 
Thirty-two student-owned au­tos parked in the D-1 lot were the victuns of petty vandalism last Dec. 15. According to Director of Security Joe Wall, the exact cause of the vandalism, which occurred at night, is unknown. None of the cars were believed to have been broken into and all of the damage was external. 
The vandals seemed to aim for the most expensive autos they could find. The cars damaged included a Corvette. Wall said, ''Hoods were walked upon, roofs kicked in, mirrors broken off and tail lights were smashed.'' 
One student noted that four car-owners from the same section ofFlanner Hall were vandalized. Wall believed that the vandals were Notre Dame students, '.'probably just several inebriated guys releasing the frustration of final exams.'' 
Another student pointed out that the group usually damaged the same parts of each car, such as outer rear view mirrors and tail lights. 
Though the damages were not large (no thorough estimate was made), repairs have been costly, and several victims have already filed insurance claims hoping to recoup their losses. The Uni':ers­ity has not been held responstble. 
Wall was quick to emphasize that security has been beefed up considerably since the incident. The parking lot detail has been increased from one to ten persons and four part-time studernts will make the patrols each night on foot. The purpose of the l'atrols will not be to tssue more tickets, but rather to prevent further acts of vandalism, Wall said. He also noted that the security force as a whole has returned to full strength. It previously had been short as many as eight men. 



BANKOK, That/and [AP) ­
Vietnamese-piloted American and Soviet warplanes darted over the skies of Cambodia yesterday, bombing and straf­mg remnants of the Cambodian army still resisting the huge Vietnamese invasion force, an­alists ·reported. 
Units of the Cambodian army reportedly were engaged in ground battles in wtdespread areas of the country with the Vietnamese and their Cambod­ian rebel protegees. 
One analyst described the Vietnamese air strikes as a ''replay" on a smaller scale of American air raids during the Indochina War. The Vietnam­ese got the American jets the United States left behind when the communists conquered South Vietnam in April 1975. The Soviets are al!tes of the Vietnamese and supply them with planes and other war material. 
Military analysts said Viet­namese forces assaulted the Cambodian island bastion of Kong, launched heavy air strikes against ·twO embattled coastal port areas and were faced with resistance in at least half a dozen areas in Cambodia, Vietnamese troops, supported by gunboats, reportedly made their attack from the seaward side of Kong, located just off the coast of southwestern Cam­bodia. 
The Vietnamese moved large gunboats into Kompong Som Bay to pound onshore resist­
, 



Cambodians withstand Vietnamese bombing 
ance and brought r~inforce­
ments to the area along High­
way 4, Phnom Penh's 125-mile 
route to the sea, the sources 
said. 
Fighting also was reported at 
Kampot, further along the coast 
toward Vietnam from Kompong 
Som;Sisophon in the northwest; 
near the 11th-century Buddhist 
temple of Preah Vihear in the 
remote north; around the pro­
vincial capital of Mondolkiri in 
the northeast, and southeastern 
Takeo province. 
Thai reinforcements have been sent to guard the nearly 500-mile-long border with Cambodia. Authorities at the Thai border said 30 Cambodian troops escaped yesterday into Thatland' s Surin Province, ar· riving in several trucks that sped along a dirt road from Cambodia's Oddar Mean Chey province. Border police said the Cambodians were chased by a Vietnamese tank that turned back near the Thai frontier. 
Fifteen Thai villagers and one of the Cambodians were wounded later in a land mine explosion at the border crossing of Chong Chom, a physician said. The villagers went to the border after hearing of the soldiers' escape. 
Thailand has expressed con­cern about the fighting, which has come as close as six miles to its frontier. Thai Prime Min· ister Kriangsak Chomanan said yesterday his government 
[continued on page 3] 

Carter forecasts unemployment hike 
WASHINGTON [AP] · The ces say. 
Carteradministration is forecast­But most private economists ing that the nation's unemploy­are predicting a sharper rise to ment rate will rise only slightly between 6.5 percent and 7 per­this year, to 6.2 percent, and stay cent. Ea.ch tenth of one percent there in 1980, government sour-stands tor about 100,000 jobless 
Chaos, death continue in Iran 
TEHRAN, IRAN [AP] --Arn:tored troops r~n down protesters' cars with thetr tanks, royahst gangs rampaged in the streets and guerillas attacked from across the Iranian border as Iran, sinking deeper into chaos searched for a way out of political limbo. 
Between seven and 21 persons were reportc;d killed and more than a dozen others wounded m bloody fighting across the country. "Beca':'se of the chaos the nation is headed for a new kmd of 
Bakhtiar's shakey government, desperately 
dictators'hip,''  P~ime  Mi~istc;r  Shahpour  
Bakhtiar declared  m  a  nauonwtde  broadcast  
address yesterday.  

trying to assert control, was dealt a new blow yesterday by Ayatullah Khomaini, moral leader of the movement that drove Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlazi from the country. Bahktiar had sent an envoy to try to negortiate with the exiled Khomaini in France, but the Moslem holy man rejected any discussi~m. of_a rec1;m<:iliation. 
Aides satd Khomatm sttll mamttans that t~e Shah-endorsed, U.S.-backed government ts 
illegal, demands its abolition and intends to 
establish a new government. "No ifs, ands, or 
buts," said one aide. This was a rebuff of 
President Jimmy Carter's appeal to Khomaini 
Wednesday to give the new government "a 
chance to succeed." 
The worst bloodshed of the day was the western oil-belt town of Dezful. Iranian military sources said tank-borne troops battled several thousand anti-shah militants after some of the protesters harassed the families of military officers. 
Troops battered protesters' autos with their tanks the sources said. They said six persons were killed. Others said as many as 20 persons have died. 
U.S. 
Air Force planes evacuated 17 Ameri· cans most of them military advisors from a near:by airbase as the violence flared in Dezful, 

U.S. 
military spokesman said. ~any of th_e anti-shah protests have been bttterly antt· American as well,. the spokesman said. He 


[continued on page 5] 
Americans. 
Private economists have less confidence in President Carter's ability to bring inflation under control. All agree, thou~h, that a recession with much htgher un­employment will occur if inflati?n is not brought down from tts current rate of about 9.5 percent. 
Government as well as provate economists had predicted that unemployment would remain a­bove 6 percent in 1978. However, economic growth proved stronger than antictpated, and the jobless rate fell from 6.2 percent last winter to 5.8 percent during the final three months of the year. 
The government's forecast was disclosed as Carter prepared to send Congress next week what he called an austere 1980 budget proposal. 
The administration will use its relatively optimistic employment forecast to justify a proposed $700 million cut for 1980 in the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act public jobs pro­gram. 
The proposed cutback would eliminate 158,000 adult jobs and 250,000 summer youth jobs by Se_et. 30, 1980, when the new budget year ends. 
The CETA cuts are 'lOt as severe as first proposed by Carter's budget manager~, and administration officials satd the cutbacks would be offset by a new $500 million tax credit besigned to encourage provate employment -rather than public employment -of young and poor adults. 
Administration officials believe the credit would prompt the hiring of some 60,000 disadvant­aged adults. 
The employer tax credit, pass­ed 6y Congress last year, would allow employers to deduct up_ to $3,000 from their 1980 tax bills for each eligible employee hired. 
It has been learned that the budget calls for spe~ding of $5,32 billion, compared wtth ~493 btl!· ion in 1979, and a defictt of $29 billion, down from a projected $40 billion deficit in 1979. 
To fulfill his pledges to hold the deficit below $30 billion and increase defense sl'ending by more than the rise m inflation, Carter is proposing cutbacks in some soctal programs and is holding down mcreases for other programs. 


News in brief 
BART train fire kills one, 
injures twenty-seven 
OAKLAND, California [APJ--A ft.re engulfed a Bay area rapid transit train in dense smoke Wednesday night in a tunnel beneath San Francisco Bay, killing one ft.reft.ghter and injuring at least 27 persons. Authorities say the dead man and .mother ft.reft.ghter, who is reponed in critical condition, were among three men who apparently colla_Psed in the smokey tunnel. Mike Healy, BART Pubhc Relations Director, says smoke develoeed on the train at about 6: 15 
P. M when tt was about a mde from Oakland on its way to San Francisco and Daly City, the end of the line. He says passengers were taken back to the Oakland West station on a "rescue train," running on a track parallel to the stranded train. The tunnel, known as "The Tube," is three and six-tenths miles long. It links San Francisco and Oakland, going 135 miles below the surface of San Francisco Bay. 


Flood aide confesses in trial to seizing, burningfiles 
PHILADELPHIA, [AP]--Stephen Elko, the government's star witness in the trial of Pennsylvania Representative Daniel Flood, testift.ed yesterday that he went through Flood's office files, burned some of the records, and then gave other documents to federal prosecutors. Elko--who served as Flood's top aide for six years--said he had Flood's permission to remove some of the ft.les. Elko says he delivered thousands of dollars in payoffs to Flood. The Pennsylvania Democrat is charged with eleven counts of bribery, perjury and conspiracy. 


Chilean agent enters guilty plea in Letelier murder 
WASHINGTON, [APJ--Michael Townley--a former Chilean intelli~ence agent--testtft.ed yesterday that he was sent to the 
U.S. m 1976 to kill Chilean dissident Orlando Letelier. Townley has pleaded guilty to planting a car bomb that killed Letelier. Townley is the government's chief witness in the trial of three anti-Castro Cubans charged with involvement in the assassination. 
FRIDAY JANUARY 19, 1979 
4:30 ,Pm--COllOQUIUM, "some non-linear. solutions in 2-d elasticity using complex variables,'' prof. ellis cumberbatch, purdue u., 226 COMPUTER CENTER 
5-6:30 pm--PETITION, right to life congressional drive, DINING HAllS 
5:15pm--MASS AND DINNER, at the BUllA SHED 
6 pro--WRESTLING, nd vs. marquette, ACC 
6,8,10,12 pm--FILM, "live and let die," KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS HAll, $1 
7,9:30, 12 pm--FILM, romeo and juliet, ENGR. AUD., $1 
7 pm--FILM, "wizard of oz," CARROll HALL SMC, $1 
7:30pm--HOCKEY, nd vs. mich. tech., ACC 
7:30pm--SWIMMING, nd vs. wayne state, ROCKNE 
SATURDAY JANUARY 20, 1979 
9 am--ROSARY VIGIL, WOMEN'S PAVIUON ABORTION CLINIC, sponsored by nd-smc right to life 
2 pro--BASKETBAll, nd vs. so. carolina, ACC. 
7,9:30, 12 pm--FILM, romeo and juliet, ENGR. AUD., $1 
7 pm--FILM, "wizard of oz," CARROll HAll SMC, $1 
7:30 pm--HOCKEY, nd vs. mich. tech., ACC. 
SUNDAY JANUARY 21, 1979 
1 pm--MARCH FOR UFE, staning at KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS BUILDING, 815 N. MICHIGAN AVE. 
2 pm--MASS, for handicapped and their friends, sponsored by the friends of J'arche, MOREAU SEMINARY 
2 pm-~AUDITIONS, nd-smc theatre production ofwedekind's spring's awakening, O'LAUGHLIN AUD. SMC 
3 pm--STUDENT RECITAL, ann addis-piano, LI111.E THEATRE 

~pni--t..~~JLUNGE, UBR~Y AUD. 

: ~.: .... 
··:f •' .•,.. • '. ~. ·•• ~' .. . :' 
; . ' ... ..:'· ; .. 

------------~----·--~------------­
... · 
: ~· 

Friday, January 19, 1979 -page 2 
... get all the news on notre dame and st. mary's sub~cribe to the 



_The Observer_ 
thru May for only $10 send payment to: 


THE OBSERVER 
' 

(IRCULATION BOX Q 
NOTRE DAME, IND. 46556 
along with your name, address. and zip 
:======~;~~~~~~~~======

PRIN SEMESTER SPECIAL 
SUPER LOW PRICE ON 
FILM DEVELOPING AND COLOR PRINTS 

99
s 
12-EXP. ROLL 

20 EXPOSURE $2.99 24 EXPOSURE $3.49 Sorry, no foreign film. 
---.... 

r~-'Koo'AcoLOR'o'RcoM'PA'TiBu-1 ~~ FILM DEVELOPING 1 
•;AND COLOR PRINTS• 
:s12.S9 Ii2~99 Is3.e49 J
I COUPON MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER. II LIMIT ONE ROLL WITH COUPON. I 
I Valid Jan. 22 thru Jan. 25 I 
'

~-----------------· 
HAMMES 
Notre Dame Bookstore 

hbau Amsts 
hrrtb Jltart Qt~urdt 
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Roben Griffin, CSC 9:15a.m. Sunday Celebrant to be announced 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. John C. Gerber, CSC 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, CSC 
. _:. -~ :1 
.. ' 
.. _:,,.
7:15 p.m. Vespers Rev. John C. Gerber, CSC 
. : :.= . 
. .. . ... \.. .. 
. .~--: :."_-'",;:~ --~. 
•• ~-··''I": 
.: :-;.... :: ~:, . 
P---------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------~ 
The Observer 

Experiment will maintain St. Mary'S traffic routes 
Traffic around the LeMans Hall parking lot will be re­routed as of 8 a.m. Mondar, in an experiment with posstble traffic patterns around the proposeo library. 

} ason Lindhower, Saint Mary's College controller, announced that the LeMans parking lot appears to be the most feasible site for the library, and that the campus vehicle traffic pattern will be greatly ~ected if that site is chosen. The road closing is an experiment with that traffic pattern to test its feasibility. 
The following roads will be closed as of 8 a.m. Monday: 
1. 
The road between the east end of LeMans Hall and the Library. 

2. 
The road to the west of LeMans between LeMans and Moreau Hall 

3. 
The road in front of Regina Hall. 



Observer promotes seven 

Three Observer Staff Re­porters have been promoted to the position of Semor Staff Re­porter. Promoted are John McGrath, a freshman from Johnstown, PA; Ray McGrath, a senior from Palatine, IL; and Mike Shields, a junior from Berwyn, PA. 
Promoted to Staff Re~;>orter are Leslie Brinkley, a JUnior from Perrysburg, OH; Tim Joyce, a junior fro~ M.atawan, NJ; Pat Mangan, a JUmor from Jeannette, PA; and Kathy 
GSU offers financial aid to members 
The Graduate Student Union is offering travel grants to provide financial assistance enabling graduate students to attend out-of-town conferences relevant to their research. 
Grants of up to $100 ~re available on a last resort basts to graduate students in full­time residence at Notre Dame. Only GSU members are eli­gible. 
For application details, con­tact the GSU. The deadline for applications is Feb. 16. 
Rosenthal, a senior from Mish­awaka, IN. 

Friday, January 19, 1979-page 3 




Palm Springs' police forces plan extensive security for Shah's visit 
PALM SPRINGS, Ca/if.[AP]­Authorities in this desert re­sort, long-accustomed to millionaires and famous names, were quietly beefing up security yesterday for the expected arrtval of the Shah of Iran. 
Area law enforcement agencies, concerned that the Shah's presence could touch off bloody riots by anti-Shah Iranian students, want to be sure they can protect the 205 acre estate belonging to Wal­ter Annenberg, the former publishing magnate, where 
. . . Carter 
(continued from page 1) 
would "resist fiercely" if the fighting spills over into Thai­land. President Carter warned the Vietnamese in a news conference Wednesday against crossing the Thai border. 
Analysts estimated 100,000 Vietnamese troops were in­volved in the blitz that caused Premier Pol Pot and other leaders of his government to abandon the Cambodian capital of Phnom Penh to the Viet­namese on January 7. 

United Way 

to serve Greek meal 
An authentic Greek meal will highlight the United Way's 65th Annual Meeting and Awards Dinner, to be held Jan.24 at St. Andrews Greek Orthodox Church, 52525 Ironwood Rd., South Bend. 
The dinner will be a combined Annual Meeting with the election of new members to the Board of Directors, and presentation of awards for support of United Way in 1978. 
There is a $6.25 donation for the dinner and reservations are required in advance. They can be made by calling United Way at 232-8201. A 6:30 p.m. no-host cocktail hour wil preceed the 7: 15 
p.m. dinner. 
~-------------------------,I 


RIVER CITY RECORDS 
South Bend's largest Record & Tape Selection & Concert Ticket Headquarters 



$1.00 OFF! ~ 
COUPON ~ 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
~ 
I 
I 
• I
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

Any aJbum or tape with this coupon. Limit 1. Now thruJan. 31. Not good on cut-outs, imports or other sale items. 
-ND/SMC checks accepted for up to $10.00 over purchase 
amount -16 000 aJbums & tapes to choose from -Pe~ch crates available 
River City Records 50970 u.s. 31 North, 3 miles north of Notre Dame Open 10-10 7 days a week 277-4242 
L--------~~--.--------------..1 
the Shah reportedly ~ill stay. 
On Wednesday, the Rancho Mirage City Council passed ''urgency'' measures aimed at discouraging potential distur­bances. Because of its dis­tance from major cities, Ran­cho Mirage, a city of 12,000, has been described as "an ideal location • • if the Shah seeks a private life. 
Unanimously approved ·was a measure prohibmng parking on all city streets bordering the Annenbrg estate from Jan. 17 through Feb. 13. Also passed was an ordinance re­quiring parade permits for marches and gatherings, in­cluding a $50 fee to be paid ''a reasonable time" in advance . 
There has been no official word on the Shah's plans after he leaves Aswan, Egypt, and makes a stop in Morocco. But State Department sources in Washington say the former ruler has decided to move to the Palm Strings area, 100 miles east o Los Angeles. 
"We're just waiting to see if he decides on Texas, Acapulco or Colorado," said Lt. Max Thomas, a spokesman for the Indio station of the Riverside County Sheriff's Deparment. 
Thomas declined to discuss the size of the security force available for protecting the 59 year old Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi and his wife, Empress Farah. 
Annanberg's estate has pre­viously been a haven for visiting dignitaries, including former presidents Dwight Eisenhower, Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford, who built a home a mile away after his election defeat in 1977. 
Annenberg's sprawling es­tate was rec('ndy the refuge of the Shah's 90 year old mother and sister who fled there after violent anti-Shah demonstra­tions broke out Jan. 2 at the Beverly Hills home of the Shah's sister. A number of Iranian students were arrested after brush around the Beverly Hills home was set afire. 
There were no incidents during their short stay here, according to police. 

ACC Gate 10 9am to Spm 
~~~------------------------...
,• 





Features 

January 19, 1979 -page 4 
Letters to a Lonely God 
A night journer into life 


Michael Madden, who graduated as an art major from Notre Dame in the Oass of 1978, died in Washington, D.C. on January 6, 1979. 
. A week and a h#ago, I made the night 
Journey by tram from New York to 
Washington for Mike Madden's funeral. 

0~ my way to Penn Station, I kept 
thi~ng: "Grieved young people are 
gomg to ask me to help them make sense 
out of Michael's death, and I don't know 
what to tell them.'' I stopped at a news 
stand, and immediately found James 
Agee's novel A Death in the Family. ~ 
"Maybe, " I thought hopefully, "God 
has inspire_d ~e to buy this book; maybe 
Agee has insights that will lead me to 
reflection.'' Unfortunately for my 
depression, Agee was not writing of a 
young man's death; and after an nour of 
reading, I closed the book, and stared 
out the train window at the darkness. 

"Perhaps Michael's loved ones will 
forgive me if I don't try to comfon 
them," I thought, "ifI explain I am also 
a friend mourning the death ofa friend.'' 
At Union Station, waiting for a ride I 

talked with an old man from Israel wh~m 
I had see~ reading a Jewish newspaper 
on the tram. 

"You are waiting for someone?" he 
said. I nodded. 

"I am also waitin~,'' he said. "Why do 
you come to Washington?" 
"I'm here for a funeral,'' I replied. 

"You will speak at the funeral?" he 
said. 

''I wiil,'' I answered, ''if I can think of 
something to say. " 

"Birth, death, marriage,'' he said, "I 
believe in them. Birth, death and 
marriage are what life is all abou~." I 
wasn't sure what he meant; it seemed 
ambigious. 
"Would you believe it,'' he said, "my 
grandfather died at ni~ety-six? He killed 
himself at the age of runety six. The old 
~ said: 'I have lived too long; enough 
1s enough:' And do you know, sir, I think 
h~ was .nght: enough is enough. At 
runety-s1X, why should he want to live 
longer?" 
I wanted to say: enough has not been reached when a young man is only tw~nty-two years old. Enough is not dym~ young when you have a family who chenshes you and friends who adore you.. E~ou~h is not leaving a world you are nch.y liifted to serve. I'm sorry for your grandfather who decided at the age of ninety-six that enough was enough because even at ninety-six, he couldn'~ know what adventures he cheated him­selfof. For me, enough is enough means only. that I have had enough of this conversation. So leave me alone to feel sorrowful and angry at a death out of due season that I do not understand, and go off and read your Jewish newspaper by yourself. 
The old man did not deserve such an outburst. Instead, I said:' "It's a very dark night, and it's very cold. God help poor wretches on such a night,'' and I gave a dollar to a kid at the station who said he needed busfare home. 
The following morning, as I tried to prepare a funeral homily, I thought: ''Out of all that I know about Mike, and out of my own limited experiences with ~. ,I must speak comfoningly about Mike s death to a congregation of mourners. But first, I must put is all together for my own peace of mind. 
''All that I . have ever known about Mike . has been truly good and truly beautiful. All that his friends and family have told me about Mike has been good and beau~iful; his love_, his thought­fulne~s, hi~ kindness, his laughter, his loy~ues, his compass10n, his generosity. 
Mike's family and his friends whom I ha_ve met, who were so much a part of Mike_, are also good and beautiful J:'eO'JIC" ~Now that Mike has taken hir1Srl1 ltf to God, the goodness and be< ut. :..tr ~ still his. God knows how to 
g~eet. g~ess and beauty, and to deal With it kindly; He would not allow it to get lost. Michael did not fear death; he ~te~ God to be gentle· and forgiving With him. He loved his earthly father too much to be afraid ofhis heavenly Father. J?veryman J!lUSt negotiate the terms of ~ peace With heaven. I believe that Mike, the good and beautiful young man, arranged his peace with God Who gathers the shadows of eanh that wear ~ colors of goodness and beauty and JtlVes them substance in His holy 1mmortal life. 1 ' ' 
~ese were the resolutions of my own fruth ~ I prepared to preach the homily at Mike Mad'den' s funeral. I used the 
Every so often a film is made which captures the hearts and imaginations of bo~ the viewing public and film critics. During the upcoming week, a virtual smorgasbord of film classics of this genre will be available to ND film buffs. 
The Notre Dame Student Government in conjunction with the Center fo; ~riential Le~g, is sponsoring a Social Concerns Film Series. It com­men~es this Monday, January 22 and culminates. next Monday, January 29.A:" films will be held at varying times in either the Engineering Auditorium or Washington HalL All showings are free of charge. 
~e ~jor purpose behind the film senes 1S to promote increased social awareness within the ND-SMC commu­nity. Each film deals fonhrightly with some provocative social issue. Organi­zers of the film festival hope to provide additional information at the film show. ­~ fo~ interested persons. Follow up discuss1on groups, faculty analysis of the films, and the 'take a prof to dinner' tickets (of which student government has appf?priated $L 50 per meal) should proVIde ample opponunity for the needed debate these films are sure to inspire. 
11IE GRAPES OF WRAm 
This 1940 filin is a powerful social dr~ based on. the novel by ]ohn Stembeck. It deals with the grinding dustb?wl poveny _of the depression era, and Its con~ormtaQt . impact on the farmworkers m the rmdwest re~ion of the_ US. It depicts the Joad fam1ly and thel! struggle to overcome the misery perya~g the~ lives. They head for Califorrua, hopmg for a better life but find the goin~ extremely difficult. Henry Fonda rums m a sterling performance as the intrepid leader of the Joad clan. An enduring masterpiece, directed by John F?rd. Assisting Fonda are John Carra­dine, Jane Darwell and Charlie Grape­wine. Black and white. 
COOL HAND LUKE 
In my estimation, unquestionably the fmest performance Paul Newman has ever enacted. As Luke, Newman portray~ a rebellious chain-gang priso­ner_. W1th cool contempt and courageous acnm?ny \ he bears the dehumanizing brutallo/ 1mposed on him by the ruling authonnes. Two classic scenes involve the voluptuous female tease washing her car as the gang work on a nearby road; the other has Newman brawling with George Kennedy. His incredible resilli­ence and refusal to quit, although thoroughly pummelled, leh: me emotion­ally exhAusted but full of deference for his audacity and raw will to survive despite insurmountable odds. Directed by Stuan Rosenburg. 1967. Color. 

Reverend Robert Griffin 
text: "I bless you, Father, Lord of h~ven and of eanh, for hiding these things_ from the learned and clever and revealmg them to mere children.'' 
At the cemetery, after the fmal prayers, I said: Mike we little expected to brintt you to this place; but please, be our friend who prays for us in the presence of God.' 
I left Washington that evening ~g ~ had done the best I could t~ glVe_digruty to a death that threatened to und1gnify me with grief. · 
Two days later, in Thonias Wolfe I read the words I needed for Mi~l's funeral. They are the final words of Wolfe's last novel: 
A film fest with asocial flair 
Christopher Stewart, Features Ed. 
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF MISS JANE
PrrTMAN 
This 1974 blockbuster captured four ~y awards: Lead Actress for Drama (Clcely Tyson), Directing in Drama 0ohn Kony) Wrinng in Drama Ada tation (Tracy' _I~eenan Wynn), 'and PMusic 
Compos!.uo~ (Fred_ Karlin). Critics raved: ' Quite poss1bly the finest movie ' 
ever made for Amencan television"__ P~uline Kael, New York Magazine. Cicely Tyson ponrays an indomitable 110 year old black woman who has risen from. the chains of slavery to freedom. Her life spans the era from the Civil War to ~e modem ~riod of civil rights. Wnter Ernest Gaines wrote this fiCtional 
account based on numerous stories he encountered in his native Louisiana. The fi~ scene, ~~en Miss Jane defies the racrst _authonues and drinks from the fount~,~ among television's most dr~uc cl~es. Tyson is ably assisted by Richard Dysart Katherine Helmo':ld, Mi~el Murphy,' Roy Poole, Josephine Prermce. "One of the most profo~d an~ deeply moving experi­ences ~~the hj.story of film.,, --Rex Reed, 
NY ,...__·J Do '
AT · 
J..JaUY Hews. n t rmss if for the
world. Color. 
ON111E WATERFRONT 
This filin established Marlon Brando ~one of Holl~ood's brightest stars. pl!ect~d by Eha Kazan, this movie mvesugates mobster control of the dockers union. A provocative commen­tary on gangster influence of the longshoremen, On the Waterfront evoked outrage from cenain comers of the . American intellectual mainstream for ItS sueposedly anti-union posture. Anhur Miller wrote A VIEW FROM 11IE BRIDGE as a dramatic rebuttal to Kazan. Although many unions were suffering the effects of mob control during the fifties, this was not the cas with the longshoremen. Brando's superlative effon includes two stirring lov<; scenes. Marvelous. photography by Bons Kaufman, music by Leonard 
Bems!ein. Starring Karl Malden (of ~encan Express fame), Eva Marie Srunt, Lee J. Cobb, and Rod Steiger as Brando's brother. 1954. Black and white. 
11IE PAWNBROKER 
On<: of the towering motion pictures in film his~ory. Rod Steiger is superb as the JeWish pawnbroker who survived the Nazi concentr~t~on camp but only finds greater desprur m Harlem. He received ~ Oscar nomination as the embittered, alienated shell of a man whose faith in God and his fellow man has been shatt<;red by ~ ~e horrors of his East expenence. F~ly, throught the Oili­ge~t concern ofhis young assistant and a soc1al work~r, Sol N~erman (the pawn­~roker) re~lZes he still has a responsibil­Ity to mankind. Wonderfully directed by Somethin2 has spoken to me in the night, burning the tapers of the waning year: something has spoken in the night, and told me I shall die, I know not where. 
Saying: To lose the ~anh you know, for greater knowmg: to lose the life 
you have, for greater life: to leave the_ friends you loved, for greater lovmg, to find a land more kind than home, more lar~e than eanh-----Whereon the /illars of 
this eanh are founde , toward which the concience of the world is tenqing --a wind is rising, and the nvers flow. 
-
Sidney Lumet, stars Geraldine :Fitzgerald and Br?Ck Pe~ers. Several brief scenes of nudity, which ~~ould shock few but aDillt_tract large q_uannnes of~es from the on-Alumru-Pangbom-Fisher enclaves. 1965. Black and white. 
SAVE 11IE TIGER 
A rivetting inquiry into one Ameri­
can's destructive quest for materialistic 
success. Jack Lemmon won the Aca­
demy Award for his masterful perfor­
mance as Harry Stoner, a Los Angeles
dr~s manufacturer whose foundering
busme~s "<? longer supports his family's 
~ns1ve lif~tyle. A must movie for all 
busmess maJors who anticipate facing 
the moral and ethical dilemmas con­
fronted by Lemmon's Stoner. Harry
J~gles the books, commits arson to 
C<? ect the ~urance mono/ and even 
p1mps for an 11Dportant busmess client-­
10
all an effon to keep his business 
afloat. This searing conunentary on the 
trag~ o~greed and a "win at all cost" 
men . ty is sure to leave one pondering: 
Is It all worth the sufferi:5c' and
heartache? See it and d--; e 14ror
If '"'-' 
Y?urse · Jo~ Avildsen ~-Jack 
Gilford, Patr1c1a and uune Heineman 
round out a fme cast. 1973. Color. ~:Cl/EDUIE [EA-Engineering Audito­num; WH-Washington Hall) GRAPES OF WRAlli: Mon. Jan. 22-3:30 and 8:30 pm, EA. Tues. Jan. 23-6, 8:30 and 11 pm, "EA COOL HAND LUKE: Mon. Jan. 22-6 and 11 pm, EA. Tues. Jan. 23-6, 8:30 and 11 pm, WH 
JANE PrrTMAN: Thurs. & Fri. Jan. 25 
and 26-6, 8:30 and 11 pm, EA 
Of.! 11IE WATERFRONT: Thurs. & Fn Jan. 25 and 26-6 8:30 and 11 pm
WH , , 
THE PAWNBROKER: Sun. Jan. 28-3, 6, and 8:30, EA. Mon. Jan. 29-3:30 and 8:30, EA ­SAVE 11IE TIGER: Sun. Jan 28-3, 6 and U~· WH. Mon. Jan. 29-6 and 11 pm, 


' iiiiii·· t ~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~~~~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii----J 
--------------------------~,~!------~ 
------·...-·-· . 

The Observer Friday, January 19, 1979 -page 5 

Government refuses to declare 
•


counttes 'disasters' 
[APJ The Federal Government refused yesterday to declare four northern Indiana counties a disaster area and then said it would reconsider If the state could prove that life and property is threatened by heavy snow the last week. 
Willian). Watt, an aide to Gov. Otis R. Bowen, said the state would resubmit the application but he was pessimistic about the chances of approval. 
Bowen asked President Caner to declare Lake, Porter, LaPorte and St. Joseph counties disaster areas after a weekend blizzard dumped almost two feet of snow on the area. The declaration would make those counties eligible for federal reimburse­ment ot two-thirds of snow removal expenses. 
State civil defense officials said Wednesday that all four counties already had exceeded their snow removal budgets for the year, but they had no other documentation of storm-related losses. 
For that reason, Watt saidthe state never really expected that the request would be approved, adding, "The passage of each day weakens the case." 
In a letter to Bowen early . yesterday, Bill Wucox, administ­rator of the Federal Disaster Assistance Administration, said there was no indication that the situation was serious enough to warrant federal help. ''There are no identifiable threats to life, 
• • • Chaos, death 
[continued from page 1) 
tribesmen based in Iraq attacked an Iranian 
added that the evacuation was a precautionary military post near the Iranian city of Sardashi. 
measure. Two Iranians were reported wounded. 
In Tehran last night gangs of club-wielding 
pro-shah militants each numberins. about 300 The incident was a reoccurence of sporadic persons were attacking automobiles bearing border skirmishing between the Kurds and the Khomaini's picture. Iranian military. Iran had supported the 
There were no immediate reports ofinjuries in Kurdish rebels in \their separitist war against Tehran. Iraq untill974 when Iranians and Iraqis patched 
On the southwest border with Iraq, Kurdish ••p their differences. 
Holiday buying reduces chances of recession 
WASHINGTON [AP] -An 
end-of-year holiday buying 
spree by shoppers pushed the 
nation's economy ahead at an 
unusually fast pace and re­
duced the chances of a reces­
sion, a government report in­
dicated yesterday. 
The 6.1 percent growth rate 
in the fourth quarter has nearly 
double what many economists 
had been predicting several 
months ago. It was considered 
high enough to keep. t~e unem­
ployment rate fro~ nsmg about 
6 percent for awhde. 
The Commerce Department 
report showed that consumers 
led the fourth-quarter boom by 
buying more autos and Christ­
mas gifts, but they also bor­
rowed more money for their 
increased spending.
One reason they went further 
into debt was worsening infla­
tion, the report showed. 
It said that prices for all 1978 
averaged 7.4 percent higher 
than they were in 1977, the 
highest inflation rate since the 
9.6 percent figure recorded in 1975. 
Inflation was getting worse at the end of the year as prices rose an an 8.1 percent rate in the fourth quarter. 
Some economists have siad that consumers may be overex­tendin~ themselves. When borrowmg eventually slows, they say, the economy may grind to a halt. 
The Commerce Department's report on the gross national product (GNP) showed that the nation's output of goods and services grew by 3.9 percent in 1978, after inflation was taken into account. That is consider­ed a healthy rate and one that is sufficient to keep unemploy­ment in check. 
Carter administration sources said the government is 
predicting that unemployment will rise from 5.9 percent in December to a peak of 6.2 percent by the end of this year and throuBh 1980. That is far more optunistic than predic­tions by many private econo­mists, who say the jobless rate may rise to 7 percent. 
These private economists contend that inflation is forcing the government to tighten credit substancially. As a result, businesses and home buyers will have more trouble borrowing money, and a reces­sion will result, they say. 
· The GNP report and other economic indicators have shown, however, that if a recession is coming, there is no sign of it yet. 
============ 
Dr. Murphy 
named to 

law chair 
Dr. Edward J. Murphy of the Notre Dame Law School faculty has been named to the John N. Matthers Chair in Law, it was announced by Timothy 0' Meara, University provost. 
Since 1975, Murphy, a spe­cialist in contract and commer­cial law, has been occupying the Thomas J. White Chair, the first endowed r.rofessorship in the Law Schoo . 
His appointment to the Mat­thews chair reflects the re­location of the White Chair in the recently established Tho­mas and Alberta White Center for Law, Government and Hu­man Rights. The White Chair is now designated for the Center. 
property, public health and safety,'' he said. 
Watt srud that while all four counties already have exhausted their snow removal budgets for this winter, the situation is less serious than during the statewide blizzard a year ago. In 1978, he said, federal money was needed urgently to hire contracts to dear major transportation arteries, while this year it's more of a long-term, budgetary problem. 
There also was a chance of snow or freezing rain and sleet in southern Indiana last night, but forecasters said that should change to rain today as warmer air spreads over the state. 
CDC sponsors 'strengths' 
• 
The rejection was the sewnd 

semmar
dose of bad news for nonhern The Saint Mary's Counselingbracing for
Indiana, which was and Career Development Center
another major winter storm while is sponsoring a Human Potentialstill recovereing from the last 
Seminar to aid students in em­one. phasizing their personal
The National Weather Service strengths.
issued a winter storm watch for A group to start the first weekthe northern third of the state. 
of February is now being formedSnow was expected to begin over at the Center. It is open to allnorthern and central Indiana late Notre Dame and Saint Mary's.last night, possibly become heavy students and will meet two hoursat times this morning and then per week for ten weeks.
become mixed with sleet or For more information, contactfreezing rain in the afternoon, the Betsy TwitcheH (4583,4431).


, _______________,
weather service said. 


fBULLA SHED i
an
I1 5: 15. mass and supper I 
I ili~&hl~ 1 I and every friday-CC!~ • 
\ m1n1:...ry I 
~---------------' 
: smc movte smtes p~s€Tlts: :
• 

: W1ZdR0 o~ OZ :
• 
: StaRRtnq )uby (jaRlanb •: • 
• Oate: ]anuauy 19-20 • : ttme: 7:00-9:30-12:00 : : ptace: cauoou han (smc) : 
e Cost: $t.OO e
• 
SPRING BREAK FORT LAUDERDALE 
march 17 -march 25 Holiday Inn Oceanside In the Heatt of the Action 
J209 pet petson· quad occupancy 
Ptlce Includes: Lodging Dlsneyworld Tickets Roundtrip Transportation 


Call: 
INDIANA MOTOn aus 2~ 
..11111 


~-2196

.715 SOUTH MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND, IN 46624 
either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD 
reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray 0 'Bnen ' &Je Q Notre flczme, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calculi Features Editor ......... Chns Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Langhenry Photo Editor .......... ,Doug Chnstian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mdls per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cacld_? Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Satnt Mary's Editor ...... FJ/en Budd'j Business Manager: ....... john Tucker Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor ..............Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 
_The Observer_ of 
-

The Observer Friday, January 19, 1979 .. page 6 
In pardon controversy 





Tennessee ousts Governor Blanton 
NASHVIllE* Tenn. [APJ-Lamar Alexander is Tennessee's Governor today­taking over in an unprece­dented and abruptly arran$ed ceremony aimed at blocking the release of more convicts. 
Ousted three days early was Ray Blanton, the 48-year-old 

courtesy. I thought they would have the courtesty to tell me." 
He said he had been told he had been _barred from his Capitol office for security rea­sons. 
Shortly before taking the oath of office from Chief document with my signa­ture." 
The state attorney general ruled earlier that Alexander could take the oath of office any time after Jan. 15. The decision to go ahead with the swearing in was made after conferences between Alexan­speakers of the House and Senate, both Democrats. 
In Jackson, during what had been scheduled as a pre­inaugural event, Alexander said: "I think it will be up to the people to judge whether I did the right thing. I think I did. I think I had no choice." 
four year term as governor, said Wednesday he had com­muted the sentences because ofa state court order to relieve prison overcrowding. ''I tried to comply with it," he said of the order. "We've tried to do what is right. We believe we have. We believe history will 
Democrat who stepped into a 
political hornets nest when he 
granted clemency to 24 convic 
-ted murderers and 28 other 
convicts this week. 
The surprise swearing in 
Wednesday came amid re­
ports that a grand jury would 
mvestigate the pardons and 
commutations granted by 
Blanton. 
Blanton's action Monday came a month after the arrest of two of his aides and a state trooper on federal charges of selling pardons and paroles. A federal grand jury is investi­gating the alleged scheme. 
Blanton's action Monday came a month after two of his aides and a state trooper on federal charges of selling par­
dons and paroles. A federal grand jury is investigating the alleged scheme. 
Blanton, who was not told of the oath-taking ceremony in advance, said he was "sad­dened and hurt for the state of Tennessee that this clandes­tine action has taken place ... There is such a thmg as 
ACROII 
R 
c I. JmpulalvP, reckJeaa per­
aon 
7. Float buoy­0 antly 
s 
11. 
Move from one eountry 

to another 

s 
12. 
Taj Mahal 


site 
13. Learn about:w 8wda. 
0 
14. 
Just 1~. Anpr 

R 
16. 
Plnoehle com­bination• 

18. God of flocks 

D 
19. 
Small pie 

21. MaJip!l'· 
23. Gnomes

s 
26. Winter phe­nomenon 



Justice Joe Henry of the State 
Su.P,reme Court, Alexander 
sa1d, "I have been authorized 
by the lieutenant governor and 
the speaker of the House to 
make this statement: 
"The U.S. Attorney today advised each of us that he has substantial reason to believe that the governor of Tennessee was planning to release one or more persons from prison who are targets of an investigation of payoffs for release from prison.'' 
A federal prosecutor, who asked not to be identified, said the federal grand jury may investigate the 49 commuta­tions and three pardons gran­ted by Blanton this week. 
Alexander, 38, the state's 45th governor, said before being :sworn in: "These are not very happy days for the state of Tennessee and they are not very happy days for me. I ask for the prayers of the people." · 
He later ordered no more prisoners are to be released ''without a properly executed 
241. Peen 2. Mallow 
28. Trample 8. Bandlutru­81. F5etory mant 
88. Entartalner .. Laad proJ.e­Prealey tlona 
86. Eatete auper­II. Small 181• vl..,ra 6. Jl'ree-llaqlntr 
311 Voleanie ornament product 7. F-ala Alr­
40. 
Sturdy tree Fo-mem­

41. 
E:xpreaaive ber: abbr. breathe 8. Yawnina 


43. 
Sprinted II. Monk 

44. 
-Khayyam 10. Mountain 


46. Spellbindina hlkea 48. Mona-11. E.,mt.U 
49. Melodramatic CfW'Pa, for in­actions stance 
60. Ooze 18. lionel 
51. Sofa 17. Noisy aleep DOWN 
aound 1. Roman £0(1­
20. Contract atip­deaaofwia­
ulationa dom 
22. Reside 
24. Nanow open­

der, a Republican, and the Blanton, who served one record it was right." 
GSU sponsors Travel Grants;
applications available to members 
illlfl 
27. Wheellaaa ve­hiclea 
211. Greed 
80. Larp couch-ea 
82. Simon­
84. Warbled 
86. lmplementa 
86. 
Ar.lan ftber pla::t 

87. 
Ediet 


38. "Keep your -on/' don't loaeyour temper 
42. Catch ajpt of 
46. Knoek for or­
der 
47. Somethini' eaay: slana 


. OH C5REAT ONE I WHAT WILL ONe£ TH£ LOTTE~?'( 15 HELD, :YOU DO WITH THE STlJI>fNTS THOSE WHO AHE NOTAFFECTED ! OVER THE HOU51N6 WILL LOSE INTEREST L£AVIH6 
LOTTERY? THE FEW UNLUCKY ONES ALONE IN THE FI6HT. WE CAN HANDLf THEM... DIVIDE .41-JD CONQUfR 
HEH H£H 

The Graduate Student Union is taking applications through February 16 for Travel Grants for this semester. All graduate students in the GSU in full-time residence at Notre Dame are eligible. 
The purpose of the grants is to provide financial assistance to graduate students to present papers at out-of-town confer­ences or to attend conferences of specific interest to their own research. The grants are intended as funding of last resort for those students with no other funding available. 
A maximum of$100 per grant will be awarded, and no student will be awarded more than one grant this semester. A total of $2,000 is available for the awards. 
All applications must include: a) student's name and ID number; 
DOONESBURY 
MY 60/J/ YOfJ 
MEAN, IGOT INTO AFIRE­
8CIN6 HIS NCPHBU. I Fc/..7I HAIJ AN 08i.16ATION 70 
FINO YOI/ ANO NIP TJ11S 
51~ V/0/.ENTNOTION IN 
THE 8lJO! lXJN'T YOfJRE­
CAL/.. ANY OF THIS, SIR.? 
'\. 
b) 
student's home address and phone number. 

c) 
student's campus address and phone number; 

d) 
name of department and advisor; 

e) 
name of conference, loca­tion, and date; 

f) 
title and abstract of stu­dent's paper to be presented; 

g) 
if no \laper, a description of the specific relevance of this conference to the student's research; 

h) 
detailed estimation of costs; 

i) 
a signed statement from the student's advisor that no other funding is available. 


The applications will be re­viewed by a Travel Grants Committee of one GSU member from each of the four graduate studies divisions and a repre­sentative from the advanced studies office. The GSU caucus 
by Garry Trudeau 

THAT N16HT Y(JJ CAU£/JME FROM 7HcAlf?POI<{ IN A f?A6e. YOfJ SAIO YOfJ K/tiEIAJ 7HAT1(///.I.JAMfJ IAJ45 601N6 70 BE1fT THE SIJP6< 801A//.., ANO 7HifT '/0(/IVS?E 60­1/>13 70 "TRACK HIM /JOIA/NANO t3REA5E HIWFOR. F/RJN6 WfJ. 
I 
SOMETIMES I THINK HY TALENTS ARE W45TED ON ACATHOLIC UNIVERSITY 
will meet Monday to appoint this committee. Awards will be announced no later than February 26. 

Yesterday~ 
answers 


Whalt •ra you 90'"9 to dO with tod8y'o bowl Q8me ltckel? Are you 1Jol"9 to lllrow II •w•y or take ot home 8nd drop It In • d-dr•wer never to be -n 8Q8in. WHY NOT PRESERVE IT? H8ve lllat ticket embedded In a cryllal clear Luella pen aet or peperwetght and proudly display it as a r-mbl'llnce ol IIIia gre•t e""nt Along with your licllet, we will "mhM ttw names olthe achools and final !t4 ores '-io show vour true colora an<t ~.AVf Yl.lllll TICKET 
It you rton t have a ht ket you can still obtam a memory hy mdenng a I tK:tte key tham showu1g the bowl gamtt par­t•ctpalmg !ll hools and frnal suHe!!l 
We WilliISO work w•th yroups anrt organ­izations on promotional or runrl ra1smg projects. 
I am interested! Pleaae aend me ___ Pen aet(s) $14.95 ___ Paperweight(s) 9.95 ___ Key chain(s) 4.95 
I agree to add $1.00 postage and han­dling lor each item ordered. NAME ______________ 
ADDRESS----------­
CITY -..-------­
STATE-------ZIP----­
PHONE--------­
Send coupon plus check-or money order to: 
HALL-SCHUMAN and ASSOCIATES 300A GRANT STREET VERONA. PA 15147 
4121828-1100 
Allow 8pproximately 8 wka. lor delivery 
PA residento add 8~ aalea..tax 


The Observer -Sports Friday, January 19, 1979-page 7 
:I 
' 

Bengal Bouts practice for There will be an organiza­both novices and returning 
tional meeting and workout for puglists begins Monday, Jan­the crew team this Saturday at

Oubs plan uary 22, at 4 PM in the boxing 10 AM in ~he gymnastics roomroom of the ACC hockey arena. 
at the Rockne· Memorial. All

AU those interested in ~oxing,
workouts including newcomers, are en­those who want to get in shape couraged to come and practice. are invited to attend. Bring No ring work is required your sweats! ! 
just ask 'Hollywood' 

It's tnore than just a gatne 
They call it the Super Bowl. One football game which supposedly determines who will 
. wear the crown as champion of the National 
Frank 

Football League. Well ... that's what it was .·supposed to be. What it has become is a week of sun and fun, LaGrotta picnics and parties, dinners and expense accounts with just about everyone scrambling that is. for "rwo on the fifty-money's no object." Oh, But since you brought it up, I think it merits yeah. At the end of this "seven days in Sodom saying that while Bradshaw may not be the best and Gomorrah,'' everyone gathers at the local speller in the NFL, his record clearly indicates ballfield for a football game--and of course more that he is at the top of the heap when it comes to parties and lots more fun. I hear Pete Rozelle is quarterbacks. H1s 28 touchdown passes set a thinking of renaming the whole thing. Maybe new league record and his ability to read they'll call it "Super Week with a football game deft:nses and call the right play is recognized thrown in on the last day just to give everybody and lauded by everyone associated with football an excuse for being there in the first place?'' except you, "Hollywood." 
In any case, the week is winding down and for But Roger Staubach is very sood in his own those of us not fortunate enough to have an invi­right. His arm is accurate and h1s ability to think tation to Rozelle's private party (that's tonight at under pressure is undeniable. When Roger eight, if you haven't R.S.V.P.'d yet) about all can't run, he passes and when he can't do that's left is the football game. The-Pittsburgh either, he knows when and how to throw the Steelers versus the Dallas Cowboys--4 p.m. football away--something Bradshaw still has a 
Sunday on WNDU-TV. If you want to see a little trouble with. bang-up football game, it might just be worth And then there's Franco Harris. But there's your while to tune in. also Tony Dorsett. But the Cowboys have Drew 
Because you see, there's no question about it; Pearson. Yes, but Pittsburgh features Lynn this is the most evenly matched contest since Swann. And]ack Lambert. What about Harvey David met Goliath. The Steelers are, indis­Martin? And Randy White? putable, the best team in the American Football Isn't it foolish? All this pregame analysis Conference and Dallas is certainly the class of about who's stronger and who s smarter and this the NFC. And when the best meets the best, it's guy's too old and that fellow runs a 4.3 in 40 usually worth watching, to say the least. and... 
If you do, what you'll most likely see, is a And it goes on and on. And they all tell you game that might just put an end to the criticism the same thing. But no one will come right out that Super Bowls are generally boring football and say it. So I am ~oing to. games. Pittsburgh against Dallas is the dream When you come nght down to it, Pittsburgh match-up that preseason predictors were hoping has a better football team. Their recot:d, 14-2 for and it should be anything but boring. against a tougher schedule than Dallas played, Outspoken Cowboy linebacker Thomas "Holly­proves it. The Steelers had the number one wood" Henderson has already seen to that. If defense and number two offense in the league "Hollywood" plays as well as he talks, the and they stormed through the playoffs like a Steelers will have their hands full. drunk on a rampage. Dallas coach Tom Landry 
But I don't think he can. His previous record said right after the NFC Championship game: and statistics indicate that "Hollywood" Hen­''Pittsburgh has the best team in football. derson is an average NFL linebacker. And don't They've played well consistenly all year. They'll let that interce~;>tion that he had against the Los be tough to beat." Angeles Rams m the NFC title game fool you--it But that doesn't mean that Dallas can't beat was Hollywood's first of the year. Henderson them. If the Cowboys can force a few Pittsburgh says he backs up his brash words on the field. mistakes and cai>italize on them then they'll take He points out that he only talks to psych his team the upper hanO.. I wouldn't want to play up. catch-up football against either team. 
Excuse me for asking, "Hollywood," but But the way it looks right now, Pittsburgh how could insulting Terry Bradshaw by saying should win the Super Bowl XIII by at least sever\ that he couldn't spell CAT if they spotted hun a points. C and A, psych anyone up? Except the Steelers, , By the way, "Hollywood," that's C-A-T. 
Marquette next 


Wrestlers over . 5 00 for holiday break 
by Bill Marquard Sports Writer 
The Irish wrestling team upped 
their season dual meet mark to 
5-4 over Christmas b'reak, 
postin~ a bener-than-average 4-3 
record over the last two weeks. 
The grapplers journeyed to Greencastle, Indiana, on January 9 for a quadrangular meet with DePauw, Franklin and Wright State. The Irish finished 2-1 on the day, posting impressive wins over DePauw (31-13) and Franklin (30-14) while falling to Wright State by a 26-13 count. 
Notre Dame was paced by junior co-captain Dave DiSabato who defeated both ofhis opponents by a combined score of 40-7. John Iglar also posted a 2-0 meet mark, as neither of his opponents scored on the 167­pound freshman. Freshman 134-pounder Curt Rood and sophomore 150-pounder Steele Mehl each notched second-period pins against their DePauw opponents. 
The Irish matmen invaded 
Chicago's Addison Trail High 
School the next ni~ht to challen~e 
Big Ten power Ilbnois. The Ilhni 
proved too tough an opponent for 
the Irish, as they commanded a 
39-2 ·decision. 
Junior Dave Welsh thwarted the 
Iflini's bid for a shutout as he 
tussled to a 5-5 draw. The match 
was a little closer than the final 
score indicated, as three Irish 
grapplers lost their matches by 
one or two-point decisions. 
The matmen closed out vacation with a January 13 quadrangular meet at Middle Tennessee State. Notre Dame climbed back over the 500 mark with a 2-1 perfor­inance, downing host Middle Tennessee 23-20 and Cincinnati 45-11 while succumbing to Virginia Tech 36-5. Dave DiSabatoregistered another per­fect day with 17-4 and 7-0 decisions, the laner being the team's only win over Virginia Tech grapplers. Notre Dame won three of Its four matches a~nst .a decimated Cincinnati squad in that 45-11 win. The squad returns to the ACC pit tonight for a 6 PM match against perennial rival Marquette. Notre Dame will be gunning to even the overall score as the Warriors hold a slight 11-10-2 edge m the 
all-time series. 
"In Marquette we have a team with basically the same caliber wrestlers that we have, "notes Irish grappling coach Ray Sepeta. 
"This even match-up, as well as the good natured rivalry, should make for an interesting match tonight.'' 
• • . leers 
(conh'nued from page 8] 
The mind can be a tough opponent and thinking too much on the ice can hinder a team. Come game time, the Irish will have to put everything out of their minds and concen­trate on the game they are playing in. They will have to start reacting naturally to play as it develops, and not think the play through before doing it. 
When 7:30 rolls around to­night at the ACC, the wait will be over, and then we'll see whether or not the new version of the Irish icers will make the climb out of their slump. 
, , , USF 
(continued from page 8] 
game's -"Most Valuable player'' while leading ND in scoring and rebounds with 18 and 7 in the respective cate­gories. Branning and Jackson each chiJ?ped in 14 markers. 
The Insh upped their record to 10-1 while the Dons fell to 13-4 on the season. The Irish will host South Carolina on Saturday with tipoff set at 2 
p.m. EST. 
NOTRE DAME 88, USF &ll 
USF [&!I)--Bryant 0 1·2 1, Jemison 9 3-3 21, Cartwright 41-2 9, McAlister 2 o-o 4, Reid 6 1-1 13, Bowers 0 o-o 0, Deloatch 0 o-o 0, Gilberg 0 o-o 0, Williams 10 1-2 21. 31 7-10 
69. 
Notrt 01m1 1118)--Wooiridge 9 O-o 18, Tripucka 5o-o 10, Lalmbeer 3o-o 6, Hanzlik 4 3-4 11, Branning 7 0-o 14, Mitchell 1 o-o 2, Jackson 6 2-2 14, Flowers 4 5-6 13. Healy 0 o-oo. Hawklnsoo-oo. Kellyoo-oo. 391D-12 
88. Halftime--Notre Dame 40, USF 27. Fouled out--Reid. Total fouls-USF 18, Notre Dame 13. A-11, 345. 

-
.' 

-----~·~-~~~·~-~~~----------~----~--~~--~----~~~----------------------~----------------~--------~ 






Snorts 

Irish breeze past USF as Woolridge nets 18 
by Ray 0 'Brien Sports Editor 
Notre Dame solidified their 
claim to the number one rank­
ing in the country last night at 
the ACC, as they combined a 
quick opening lead and a decis­
ive fimsh downing San Fran­
cisco 88-69. 
Playing before the most en­thusiastic crowd of the season, the Irish caught the Dons standing around on defense at the outset and forced them into turnovers on offense to build a 20-5 lead with 9:30 gone in the contest. 
Orlando Woolridge set the stage for the game as he outmaneuvered the 7-1, 260 pound All-American Bill Cartwright scoring eight points in the Irish's opening streak. 
On defense, Notre Dame sagged on Cartwright, forcing~ :,an Francisco to take long range jumpers. The Irish then won the battle of the boards in a very physical first half. 
"We got behind early. We lost the game in _the first ten 1minutes,'' emphasized Dons' head coach Dan Belluomini. ''Notre Dame is a great team and they are especially hard to play catch-up against." 
Cartwright managed 7 early points before being smothered by Bruce Flowers. Notre Dame edged to a 34-19 lead as Tracy Jackson came off the bench to a add a hot hand in Notre Dame's balanced scoring attack and settle for a 40-27 lead at intermission. 
It was more of the same for ND in the second half as Branning, Woolridge and Tripucka all scored layups giv­ing Notre Dame a 46-29 lead. 
Billy Reid, Doug]emison and Guy Williams countered for the visttors with shots from the perimeter. 
The Dons cut the lead to 59-52 when Williams sank a 20 footer with 9:30 left in the game. However, Phelps' team regrouped and ran off 12 unan­swered points in the next six minutes to put the game away. 
"In the second half we came out with intensity and built up the big lead but let it get away with turnovers,'' explained Phelps. "But we showed a lot of poise and confidence down the stretch to get the lead back." 
Branning explained the tem­porary letdown; "We had a couple of turnovers and relaxed a httle bit. They tried to intimidate us, but as the num­ber-one team we expect that. They just talked to us like we were out on the playground.'' 
For a number-one ranked team the Irish played as if it was just a playground game. "We executed a good game plan,'' offered a satisfied Phelps. "We defensed them full court and shut down their big man. We figured they would eventually miss from the outside." 
Cartwright was almost non­existent in the second half, as he finished the game with mne points. Williams and Jemison led all scorers with 21 points each on 19-33 from the floor. 
Woolridge was tabbed the 
[continued on page 7] 

Friday, January 19, 1979 -page 8 

ND signs Ohio guard 
John Paxson, one of the premier high school basketball guards in the nation, has announ­ced his intention to enroll at the University of Notre Dame next fall. 
The 6-2, 180-pound backcourt­erfromKettering, Oh,,last week signed an institutional letter-of­intent with Notre Dame explain­ing basic scholarship condittons. He plans to sign a national letter with the Irish once high school athletes are eligible to mk schol­arship agreements on April 11. 
Paxson, now in his third year as a starter at Alter High School, has averaged 24.3 P.oints per game this season while helpmg the Knights to an 11-0 record to date. In those 11 games, he has hit 57 percent of his field-goal attempts while connecting at an 80 percent clip from the free­throw lio,e. 
Last season, Paxson paced Alter to a 24-1 record and Ohip AAA state championship while contributing 15 points per game and earning the state tourney MVP award. He helped the Knights to the regional runnerup spot as a sophomore and now has seen Alter compile a 55-5 record under Coach Joe Petrocelli dur­ing Paxson's three years as a regular. 



leers try to rebound vs. Tech 
by Bnan Beglane Sports Wn"ter 

Has the Notre Dame hockey team's bubble burst? That appears to be a question without an answer right now. 
First act a big success 


'QB story' needs a sequel 
Once upon a time there was a young blond haired boy named Joe. Now Joe hved in Monongahela, Pennsylvania, and loved all sports. He especially loved to throw things; a rock, a baseball and even a football. Some people said he could throw a nickle across the neighboring Allegheny River. When Joe grew up he went to a school called Notre Dame. And the rest is now history. 
It reads like a fairy tale, but fairy tales are make believe and Joe Montana was the real thing--ask the Houston players. But when you look back at Montana's collegiate career and how it ended with the last pass on the last play in the last second good for a miraculous game winning touchdown, you begin to wonder if it was real or if you were just watchin~ a corny, "too much to believe" movie; a movte that got terrible reviews because it didn't depict a real life situation. 
But]oe Montana swears it was real life, all five · years of it. And don't forget that it wasn't always that rosy. Montana overcame terrific 

odds, but that is the story of his life. And while Joe Montana owns few Notre Dame records, his story will always be remembered. 
Remember in October of 1975 when Joe came off the bench against North Carolina with six minutes left and ND trailing by six. Watch him complete 3-4 passes for 129 yards as the Irish score th:e go-ahead touchdown with 1:03 on the clock.

-Sure, but many "flash in the pans" have done that. How many come back the next week and pass and run for two ID's in a 21-point fourth quarter to give their team a 31-30 victory? You say two thrilling games does not a "Comeback Kid" make. ' But Montana's biggest comeback was not on the field. In 1975 he injured his hand and 
• missed the last three . games. A preseason shoulder injury kept him out of action in 1976. By the fall of 1977, this hero was almost 

Ray 

O'Brien 
forgotten as Notre Dame prepared to take the National Championship. 
On September 24, 1977, Montana proved to any skeptics that he was truly a "Comeback Kid.'' On that day he came off the bench as the third string quarterback with 16 minutes remaining in a game against Purdue that saw Notre Dame trailing 24-14. Montana promptly went to the air completing 9-14 passes for 154 yards enabling the Irish to score 17 points and beat the Boilermakers, 31-24. In retrospect, a season that might have spelled disaster became an immaculate success. On that day Montana not only won the game, but won his team a National Championship. His transformaton to a starting role paralleled his team's success. 
Remember the 49-19 trouncing of USC in a game that saw the "Monongahela Minuteman" shine for a full hour as he completed 13-24 passes for 167 yards and two TD's and rush for two more earning him ABC's Offensive Player of the Game Award. 
Remember the come-from-behind win at Clemson? See Montana pass for a ftrst down after a ftrst and 50-plus yards-to-go situation. 
Remember  the  Cotton  Bowl  that  made  the  
Texans forget the Alamo.  
But perhaps  Montana  saved  his  best  two  

games for last. His .(>erformance against USC and the final play agamst Houston willl rank as two of the grearest comebacks in Notre Dame history. After all, it only seems appropriate that it end that way. 
Yes, everyone will remember part one of the Joe Montana story. 1 can hardly wait for the sequel! 
With the trouble the-Irish have 
been having on the ice as of late 
(losing five of their last six), it's 
obvious something is missing. 

The trouble is no one can really 
put their finger on just what has 
gone wrong. For sure, the 
bubble has deflated. 

Ah, but one deflated bubble 
docs not a season make. 

Lefty Smith and his Fighting Irish began their task of re­building that bubble this week with some adjustments in the lines and on defense. They -have been in a slump, and as Smith says, only divine guid­ance may get him the answer to 
his team's troubles. 

"Heaven only knows just 
what has gone wron~," offers 
the lOth year coach. 'We have 
definitely been in a slump and 
we can't really find a reason for 
it. It has not been a case of the 
players letting up and not 
trying nor has it been due to 
injury. We /'ust have not been 
working wei as a team like we 
were.'' 

"I think we have had a 
tendancy to skate a little bit 
tight and not open up like we 
should. · We have had the 
opportunities and have just not 
been able to put the ruck in the 
net. With schoo back in 
session we are back to our 
normal routine, and having the 
students back in the stands 
should help out a little.'' 

But despite having dropped 
in the standings and losing four 
of its last five league contests, 
Notre Dame, tied for fourth 
place, is still only four points 
away from first place Minne­
sota in the WCHA standings. 

That's the kind of year it has 
been. Only four points separate 
the top five teams. 

"We have been seeing the 
kind of thing that has happened 
to us happen around the 
league," continued Smith. 

"Last week Minnesota outshot 
Minnesota-Duluth by a very 
wide margin both nights (107 to 72 total both nights) yet UMD came away with a win and a tie from Minnesota's rink. Hockey can be a funny game in this respect and sometimes hard to figure.'' 
So to try and break out of the slump and get things rolling again, Smith has altered the offense and defense. Here is. the new version: OFFENSE: FIRST--Dave Poulin at center for Greg Meredith and Kevin Humphreys; SECOND --Tom Michalek centers for Steve Schneider and Jeff Perry; THIRD--Ted Weltzin at center for Jeff Logan and Bill Rothstein; FOURTH --Brian Burke at center for Kevin Naguski and Tom Farrell/Dick Olson. DEFENSE: FIRST -­] ohn Friedmann and Scott Cameron; SECOND Jeff Brownschidle and Jim Brown; THIRD --John Schmidt and John Cox. 
This new version of the Irish gets its ftrst test tonight and tomorrow at the ACC (broad­cast around campus on WSND AM 640) against ftfth place Michigan. Tech. Notre Dame and the Huskies split in early December up in snowy Houghton and Tech is never a team to be taken lightly. 
The Huskies bring the WCHA's top goal scorer, Gord Salt with 20, and freshman standout Rick Boehm to South Bend to highlight a tough forechecking team that has more than enough strength and size. They will provide a good test for Notre Dame's speed, especially with the · latest re-, arrangements. · 
But Michigan Tech is not the only opponent the Irish will face this weekend. After losing five of its last six and dipping noticeably in effectiveness, Notre Dame will also be up against the fact that they need to break out of the slump. 
Don't laugh at this notion. 
(continued on page 71 




