; a 

Christmas gifts -page 1'0
' . ' ., 
·---~---·---······--------------------------------~ ---·-------------. --·--. ---------~----~---·---~-.....------~-­
--------------------------·-···-­

''('I . ,. TI. NO (j.
\ J 1._ .'\.1 v . "'' :t 
~. ' ' J • ~ ... O r F"'0 • 
0 
Khom.eini ntakes appeal urging national unity 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini urgently appealed for national unity yesterday after two days of clashes between opponents and supporters of Iran's Islamic Constitution that was overwhelmingly approved by voters this week. He asked the nation to focus instead on the conflict with the United States. 
At the same time, Foreign Minister Sadegh Ghotbzadeh said he and Khomeini agreed the U.N. Security Council resolutions on the U.S.-Iran crisis was a "step forward" to negotiated settlement, the official Pars news agency reported. The crisis centers on demands that the ousted shah be sent to Iran in return for the release of 50 American hostages held in the occupied U.S. Embassy since Nov. 4. 
At the White House, meanwhile, spokesmanJody Powell denied President Carter had told Congressmen he was hopin~ a policy of economic denial -"turning the screws a little tighter' every few days · would induce Iran to free the hostages. 
Speaking to a group of about 100 House members Wednesday night at the White House, Carter was reponed by J?articipants as having outlined a series of economic measures he ts prepared to take to end the crisis. 
But Powell said the president spoke mainly about actions already taken and "!n process," rather t~an laying o1:1t Er~spective moves. Powell said the administration found Ghotzbadeh's statement on 

the U.N. resolution "interesting." Powell said "we will have to see what, if anything, develops" as a result of the statement. Khomeini issued his unity call after meetins in the holy city of Qom with Ayatollah Mohammed Kazem Shartat-Madari, who has 

said the Islamic charter does not give adequate autonomy to Iran's ==::-:::::::::-.:...=:::;:.::::..:::::::::::::-:------:~ ::-:::· -~--=--=~= ·-..: _---_-: ~:..-=-::-.:.::::· _-:...:..-:: :::_-: -:..~.---·.-..::·_ :.:.. -_-__ -:: ..:.:..:-:.:. ~ --=--:::_:::.-:::.~ --------~--·­
minorities and vests too much power in Khomeini. 
'·Do not quarrel between yourselves and focus on the one and only enemy ... It is your religious duty and national resposibility to concentrate on the confrontation with the United States,'' Khomeini said in a nation-wide radio broadcast. 
Kh?meini an_d Shari~.t-Madari, the most powerful. leaders .of Iran s predommant Shute Moslem sect, appear to be m essenttal agreement on national policy and the new charter despite clashes between their followers. 

Two people were killed and eight wounded Wednesday in a demonstration near Shariat-Madari's house in Qom, 100 miles south of here. One of Shariat-Madari's personal guards was killed in the incide_nt, but reports differed on whether the other vi~t~ was a Shanat-Madart supporter or a member of Khome1m's revolutionary guards. 
In his unity call Khomeini said, ''The tragedy that occured at Shariat-Madari's home was caused by plotters and must be condemned. You shoul make sure such plots are not repeated." 
Shariat-Madari's supporters in Tabriz, capital of the Azerbaijan Province 300 miles northwest of here, took over the state radio-television station, saying they mistrusted broadcast reports their leader had called for calm. In a telephone interview, a spokesman said the protesters numbered 30,000 and would need only a broadcast by Shariat-Madari himself. · 
The demonstrators, members of Azerbaijan's predominant Turkish population, also said they opposed the new Islamic Constitution because it did not giVe them enough autonomy. Leftists and centrists parties joined leaders of Iran's Turkish, Kurdish, Turkomen, Baluchi, and Arab minorities on calling for a boycott of the vote. 

According to official election results, 99.6 percent of those voting endorsed the charter, which mandates theocratic government and [ confrims Khomeini, 79, as ruler for life. _
I l [continued-on page 8] 
·'t 
t 
,< ; • ,.. ' 1' 
C~n·stmas is ex!"a special for kids, as was ef~it!en~ last night whn Father. Gnlfi• ule~tl hzs annual Chnstmas mass, party, anrJ tree lzghtmg cerem011y for the chilrire• ofthe ~olnr Dame faculty. [Photo by Rick DohnngJ. 
L d b 1 b £ 
e Ypou tty, ee
Wh al tOod • •


0 ~es e pnces mcrease 
WASHINGTON (AP) . Led by sharply higher prices for poultry and beef, wholesale food prices increased by 2.6 percent in November, the worst monthly increase in five years and a clear warning that consumers face higher grocer} bills in 
weeks ahead. 
Overall wholesale prices in­
creased 1.3 percent during the 
month and were up at an annual 
rate of 12.8 percent for the 
year, the Labor Department 
said yesterday. 
The increase makes it virtually 
certain that 1979 will be the worst year for inflation at the wholesale level since 1974, when prices rose 18.3 percent. Wholesale prices increased 9. 1 percent last year. 
Energy pnces rose by 2. 5 percent in November, the smal­lest amount since February, but were still 62.7 percent higher than a year earher. 
. 
The increase in food prices. the largest since a 4.2 percent rise in November of 1974, means consumers will be pay­ing more for groceries in the !lear future, especially for meat Items. 
Poultry prices increased 21. 5 percent, while beef, and veal and pork prices also rose sharp­ly after declining in October. The overall increase in whole­
sale prices follows  a  1 percent  
rise  in  October  and  a  1.4  
percent  jump  in  September.  

Food prices had declined .1 percent in October. 
The price of home heating oil rose just o.1 percent in Novem­ber, compared with a 4.7 per­cent£ jump in October. Gasoline prices rose 3.4 percent, com­pared with 5. 1 percent in October. 
Wholesale price changes are included in the Producer Price Index, which reports prices at three levels: the wholesale -or 
[continued on page 17] 

=-=================================================== 
Soledad Prison riot resll,lts in two deaths, injures 18 
SOLEDAD, Calif. (AP) -Two Soledad Prison inmates were killed and 18 injureJ yesterday in a race riot that was quelled by guards who waded in among the battlers firing birdshot, officials said. 
''The fighting was among inmates,'' said Phil Guthrie, spokesman for the state Depart­ment of Corrections. "It was a serious riot, but it's under contr:oI now. " 
He said two men were killed and one was in very serious condition. The condition of the other injured men was not immediately known. 
"It was tentatively learned that it was a fight in which browns and whites were align­ed against the blacks," G~thri.e said. "We don't know whtch, tf any, group was the aggressor or if it was a spontaneous thing.'' 
He said it was necessary for guards to ''go in on the ground and seperate people. There were a few rounds of birdshot fired, but not many. But the initial observers of the people coming off the yare! saw only one guy who 1--ad been struck with birdshot,'' Guthrie said. 
The cause of the outbreak, and the identities of the dead and injured were not immediately disclosed. 
Guthrie said the fightin~ was limited to a section ot rhe medium-security prison hous­ing about 500 of the !rison's 3,000 inmates. He sai he did not know how many were involved in the fighting. 
Guthrie said the birdshot, a type of granular-like pellet used in firearms, "was the light­weight, non-lethal stuff." 
"It was in a section of the prison that had been under lockdown since August. The lockdown had just been lifted this week," Guthrie said. 
"We haven't had any riots this serious -with two dead -in more than a year. We've had at least two race riots there this year," Guthrie said. 













New-s in brief 
Friday, December 7, 1979 -page 2 
Carter names Hufstedler SMC schedules Christmas events first secretary ofeducation 
Mar.,:;ie BrtJSsiJ walk by they tum than to faa: roll Hall Sund.ay. ~ annual 5MC News &iiJor easr. This represents the "Lessons and Carols.,. with animals watch for the coming of special Christmas readings by
WASHINGTON (AP) • Shirley M. ~Hufstedler became the 
.. 
nation's first secretary of education yesterday, tri~gering a Wirh finals only a week away~ Christ. President Duggan and Student chain of events which will end with a 13th cabmet-level Saint Mary's students .att The Notre Dame Glee dub will Government President Pia agency coming into existance in the next six months. trying to ~ into the Christmas give their annual Christmas Trigiani will also be on Sunday. 
spirit. HaJI mas~ and Concert Monday .in .all the Christmas pMties ar~ planne~ dorms. The dorms have to tty and reti~ve ~ pn:ssure planned their Christmas p:.mies 
offmals. to coincide with the Gke Oub•s

Weather 
Observer
The Junior Clas~ is tradition­caroling. Rain chan~ing to snow today, high in the middle to upper 
ally in charge of planning the Each haD witl be holding a all-campus .activities. The special mass for thOr-residents.
30s. Snow hkely tonight, low in the mid to lower 20s. 
pronrotes
Lumen Christi Mass is m Regina and Holy Cross halls are LeMans Chapel at 7 p.m. having their m.asses Thursday Monda}·· Rd'reshment will be witb a hall party following. served afterwards. McCandless Hall has planned 

reporters 
Onto: of the biggest events of their mass and luill parry for • dr Christmas season is the tomorrow whicl-: is also the tt..ast Nine reporters were promoted Parade of Animals. ··AU the of t:be Immacrlatr Conception last night by The Observer Jamiors dress in bathrobes and and :a holy day of obligation. news editors. Sal Granata and 
wear tinsel in their hair to Student Govc. mment is Phyllis Washington wec.e given represent angels and carol holding their Open House for senior staff reponer status,
Friday, December 7, 1979 
through all the dorms, .. ex­all student~ and facuky from whileJ.ane Kirby, Mary Leavitt, Mary Kay Leyden, , M1cbad
plained S..e Eckkcamp, Junior 4 p.m. to 1 p.m. As a 9am LECTURE, "modality and tonality in music," speaker 
class presitknt. • • All the other Chrisunas present to faculty Mader, Jim Soisson, Laura dr. howard brown, 115 CROWLEY. 
students place their stuffed children, .SG is having a special Vasquez, and Tim Vercellotti .animals outside their rooms showing of ~·or. Dolirde"and .....-ere promoted to staff 
repot"tf'r!';
11: 15 am MASS, with fr. griffin, LAFORTIJNE 
facing west and as the juniors Road Runner canoons in Car-BALLROOM. 
.. -------~-----------------....--, 
3:30 pm LECTIJRE, "facts, values & cognition," prof. 
• Sun.day· Masses 1
hilary putman, harvard u. LIB FACULTY LOUNGE, perspective series in philosoph;. 
: at 1



Applications 
ICall)pUS s I
4:30 pm COLLOQUIUM, "aspherical manifolds," prof. thomas farrell, u. of mich. 226 CCMB. SPONS: MATH 
lminiStry acred Heart Churchl
become due
DEPT. 
I I
1 5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. I 11x Office. of Student 
1 9:15 a.m. Sunday Rev. Thomas King, C. S.C. I Affairs reminds all students5:15pm MASS, BULLA SHED. 
1 10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. James Burtchaell, C. S.C. I I 12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. Austin Fleming I
who plan to make application for t~ position of Resident 
7, 9:15 &11:30pm FILM, "grease," ENGR. AUD. spons: 
I I
student union. admission $1. Assistant to obtain the 
1 7:15 p.m. Vespers Rev. James Burtchaell, C.S.C. I nec($sary forms before
7pm SWIMMING, nd vs. bowling green, ROCKNE leaving for Chrisnnas vaca­
L----------------------------~
MEMORIAL POOL. 
tion. Si~ the .application period concludes during the
7:30pm LECTIJRE, "sleeping beauty & the church," sr. Christmas vacation, mater­
madonna kolbenschlag, spans: ad hoc committee on women ials will nor be available
& rhe church. 
£()rrl~ 11~1() t:t:le~reltf..
when the new semester be­gins. Applications are avail­
Spm CONCERT, harry chapin, ACC. $6.50 & 5.50. able in the OSJ\ (315 Admin-
lit? t:11cl ()f til£ .§f:i~-,iest.cF·:J
istration Building). Office hours are 8 to Noon
8pm ND/SMC THEATRE, "the heiress," O'LAUGHLIN 
AUD. 
and 1 to 5:00 P.M, 
~~~cl tilt:: ~1£1()1-,/ (l~fj·­
Monday through Friday.
8:30pm POETRY READING, "the shepheardes calendar," by edmund spenser, performed by 'our ladies shepheardes' with musical interludes by members of the society for old music, LIBRARY LOUNGE, spons: dept. of english. 

.IJ.(.l.4.
The Observer 
Night Editor; Jim Rudd 
Asst. Night Editor: T~ri
Saturday, December 8, 1979 
...C..· ~~f 
Michielurti lAyout Staff: Ryan "no­2pm BASKETBALL, nd women vs. u. of mich. ACC. 
~• Sl~l()l< 13AI<
doz" Ver Berkmoes Copy Editor: John Ferroli7,9:15 & 11:30 pm FILM, "grease," ENGR. AUD. 
News Editor: Michael Lewis
admission $1. 
Editonal Layout: Dave Thoman 
ltJt?§clct-, ~ 
8pm ND/SMC THEATRE, "the heiress " O'LAUGHUN 
Features Layout: Kathleen
AUD. ' Connelly, Salvatore Michael Rocce Granata, Mark Perry 
LU.11tl:
8pm CONCERT, "fireworks" & "honey trees," STEPAN 
S,?orts lAyout: Beth 
C~NTER, spons: spiritual rock of nd. rickets $5 at student Renegade Huffman 
umon. .. 
EMT's: S. Paul Selavko, Liz 
c.ll lll"tJt
Huber8pm BASKETBALL, nd men vs. st. louis, ACC. 
Proofreader: Mike Onufrak, Tom Jackman ND Day Editor: Patsy
Sunday, December 9, 1979 
Campbell SMC Day Editor: Kathy Domanico
all day KARATE TOURNAMENT, STEPAN CENTER call 
Ad Destgn: Flo O'Connell,
mike mccormick for derails ' Barbara Pratt, Chris Slatt Photographer; Rick Dohring
2pm LITURGY, friends of the mentally retarded and of 
Guest Appearances: Pam
l'arche, MOREAU SEMINARY. 
"Snarbunny" Degnan,Greg Hedges, Margie Brassil
3pm HOCKEY, nd vs. western michigan, ACC. 

The Observer jUSP$ 511 9201 Is 
4 & 8pm CONCERT, nd music deft. christmas concert. 
published Monday through Friday ex­SACRED HEART CHURCH, free o charge. 

cept during 111m and viCitiln periods. The Observer is publlsbld by the 
ftls ..-lE til~ I<Ht ~~~ltl
students CJf Notre 011111 llld Saint
Spm LESSONS & CAROLS, music with liturgy, CHURCH 
Mary's Cllllge. Sublcriptiea nwy be 
OF LORETTO, open to all. 
purdlased for $20 per year [$11 per 
Sullo lxw '+'Ill ~ ()JOI
semeattrl from The Observer. ft.O. box 


a. Netrt ba1111. Indian~ 41551. SlceRd class ~e paid, Notrl Dame, ln­
~I 8Ull (;§(d 
diiRI . 
Tile Observer is 1 member If tfte Allociltld Prill. All r•lductltn rights lrl mervtd. 

-~ 
The Observer Friday, December 7, 1979 -page'~ 

These scrrrumcious deli'ghts sure beat those bland dry things they try to pass offas cookies in the dining halls. [Photo by Rick Dohring]. 
NDstudents participate in farmworkers rally 
No longer anonymous 
Pasquerilla donates $7 million 
The son of an immigrant the years more has been con­ping centers and then malls. In Pennsylvania coal mim·r who veyed by a Notre Dame educ­1961, Pasquerilla bought out now heads a $300 million real ation than has ever heen taught the other four owners to estab­estate development and retail simply in its classrooms and lish 100 percent control of the corporation was revealed today laboratories. Some lasting firm, which later changed its as the anonymous donor of $7 lessons come from the exper­name to Crown American Corp­million to Notre Dame. ience of shared living." oration to reflect its growth. 
Frank J. Pasquerilla, pres­The 53-year-old Pasquerilla is The major difference between ident and Chairman of the the son of an immigrant coal Pasquerilla and many other board of Crown American miner who worked in the John­contractors is that he own and Corporation, a Johnstown, Pa., stowa mines until disabled by operates what he builds. 
based company that ranks 15th black lung disease. At 15, his Crown American~s progress has in size among the country's son took on breadwinning been fueled by the cash flow development firms, was intro­chores but did graduate from and profits from 14 million duced at a press conference on ) ohnstown High School in 1944. square feet of shopping center campus by Fr. Theodore M. College was out of the ques­space in a five-state region and Hesburgh, Notre Dame's pres­tion. Rejected for medical from 1,000 rooms in the seven idem. Hesburgh said the reasons by the Army, Pasque­motor inns the corporation op­Pasquerilla g_ift was ''rooted in rilla managed to get a job with erates under Sheraton and Hol­an extraordinary sense of the Philadelphia quarter­iday Inn franchises, ofter near 
stewardship on the part of a ~.Jster, and his paychecks were its retail properties. man who knows the obligation sent home. The corporarion 's properties of wealth is service.'' After the war, he returned to include 15 malls and 25 com­The benefaction, the largest Johnstown and got a job as an munity shopping centers, and 
from a living person and the engineering and accounting in September Crown American 
third lar~est ever in Notre specialist with the state high­announced its first major div­Dame's history, was announce~ way department, taking some ersification--the $35 million last ) une when the University correspondence courses on the purchase of Hess's, Inc., a committed itself to building side. The knowledge of con­major department store chain on-campus housing for 500 structiun and of finances were headquartered in Allencown, additional undergraduates so to stand him in good stead in Pa., and having five of its 18 that 500 more women students 1951 when he entered the stores in Crown American could be enrolled. Plans were private sector as a payroll clerk malls 
drawn up for two four-story, and junior engineer at the There is another important L-shaped dormitories, each one-year-old Crown Construc­difference in Pasquf'"rilla's accommodating 250 ·students, tion Company in ) ohnsrown, a career as an investor, developer completing the northeast quad­company he would head five and builder. While man~ grew rangle begun by the construc­years later and solely own in a wealthy during the suburban tion in 1969 of high-rise Flanner decade. boom and ignored the decaying and Grace Halls. Crown Construction Company t.:ent.:r::. uf middle-sized cities, 
Construction bids have been grew from a small masonry Pasquerilla was determined to accepted and foundation work subcontractor into the largest put somerhing back. He reno­began this week. One hall is developer of Pennsylvania com­vated an old post office in expected to be ready in Jan­mercial real estate because Johnstown (at a cost of almost aby Mtke Mader the farmworkers, the farmers uary, 19.81, and the other by Pasquerilla sensed the sub­quarter million dollars) as theStaffReporter they work for and the proces­June, 1981. urban population boom. As the company headquarters, and hassing companies which use the "Mr. Pasquerilla's unpre­people flocked to the suburbs, continued to live with his familycrops in their products. 
cedented generosity will enable Crown was right behind them
Twenty Notre Dame students ''The sentiment in the area is [continued on page 8]
us to continue the important building supermarkets, shop-will postpone their studies and anti-Mexican-American and 
tradition of residentiality at
travel to Toledo, Ohio tomorrow anti-migrant farm workers,'' 
Notre Dame," Hesburgh com­
to walk a few miles through Huber commented. 
mented. ''Throughout the his­
town. FLOC has been organizing this 
tory of the University, students
The students are members of rally for two months. FLOC 
have come here not only to
the FarmLabor OrganizingCom­members hope the rally will 
i ~f)lt' .f1t() i
learn but also to live, and over
mittee (FLOC) and will partici­show the processing companies 
pate in a rally in support of that FLOC has wide support for 
farmworkers. According to the movement. 
Anne Huber, spokesman for According to the director of 
Undergrads iS()uti:·~>l?llcli
FLOC, the students are going to fund-raising for the World Hun­
meet at the community service ger Coalition,Mary Ann Harris, 
center iu Toledo. There, they yesterday the Coalition collec­to receive 
will :Jin members of FLOC ted $55 for FLOC. The Coali­
i lt)£Cltit)ll~ i
chapters around the country tion's money is to be given to contracts and various other groups and FLOC strike funds to purchase march peacefully, carrying ban­food when the migrant workers Fr. Michael J. Heppen, 
i octfather's Pizza !
ners and posters to the down-go on strike. C.S.C., Director of Student town afeP ~ /' Huber iS"\'ery pleased with the Residences, announc~d today The main purpose of FLOC is support FLOC has received on that housing contracts will be 
•
•
to heip the farmworkers in campus. "Out of the twenty mailed to undergraduate stu­
•
negotiations with large proces­going, five or six students are dents onJanuary 18, 1980. The 
•
sing companies, in order to get new members. That is encour­contracts must be signed and 
•
better treatment than they are aging, especially since finals returned to the Housing Office currently receiving. One recent are coming up.'' by February 2, 1980. Room : It's incredible... : push by FLOC is to obtain FLOC has been organized on picks will take place on April 
• the thickest . richest •
three-way contracts between campus for almost a year. 30, May I and 2, 1980. 
:• most mouth -watering pizza •: : your two lips ever put a l~k Qn. : 
• 
• I 
II 
! . •
MDCI CONVEN'I'ION 
: 52920 U.S. 31 N. Town ond Countty : 
• _ Shoppin9 (entet •
STATE CHAIRMEN 
277 5880
• 259-2556 .•
•
• 
I•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
applications now 
A pitcher of Coca-Cola free with 
I 
1 the purchase ·ot any medium or
being accepted 
I large size of the thickest , richest. 
I 
1 most mouthwatering pizza your two I 1 lips have ever put a lock on~· 1
apply at NDStudent Govt Offices 
1 Coupon is valid on eat-in pizza orders onlv and expirPs 1 1 Unt· 1'1111111111 I"''' pizza . Ht·l·t·miH·r· ll1. I 971) 1 
1~-------------------------...but you gotta buy a pizza first. I
any ND or SMC student 111ay 
apply 
I t'resent this coupon at the counter I I when you order a small or meo;um I
for State or Tenitorial Chainnan 
I ~~~size Godfather's Pizza and we'll give I I ....... you two bowls of his healthy I
I . greens free. · 1
1 Coupon valid on eat-in pizza orders and expires I
DEADLINE: Fri. Dec. 7, 5 
. lto·o·1·mlwr· lh. 11)71) I
I 

.  .  )  .  .  - .  . .  .  . '  -.  .  .  '  .  .  .  '  
f \ l . .  

f The Observer Friday, December 7, 1979 -page 4 
-
Audiences all ears for Mr. Spock 
'Star Trek' movie warps out 
• HOllYWOOD (AP) -"Sta.r Trek -The Motion Picture" blasts off in 900 U.S. and Canada theaters today culmin­ating the biggest gamble in Hollywood history. 
Consider the hazards: 
-Production costs set an all­time record, reportedly at $42 million. 
-'Ole movie is based on a television series that. failed in its first run, though its reruns attracted a legion of followers. 
-The stars are not exactly box-office names: Leonard Nimoy, William Shatner, and 
DeForest Kelly from the series 
plus India-born Persis Kham­
batta as the bald Ilia from 
Planet Delta Four. 
-Popularity of the space 
spectacular may have ~eaked with "Star Wars" and 'Close Encounters of the Third Kind.'' Despite these drawbacks, Paramount Pictures executives say they are jubilant over the finished film and confident that · the gamble will produce heavy 
rewards. 
The. man most responsible for 
sending "Star Trek" aloft is 
white-haired director Robert 

.A 
FJShSj 

Open For lunch -Noon Specials ­Platters, Sandwiches •Homemadl! Soups, Chowder, Clams, Shrimp, Lobster 
Y'lllca':f
Swallow! 
AU-~-can-eat.fish 
all the time 
All-you-can-eat salad bar 
All-you-can-eat frog's leg& on Mondays 
' And your 'favorite cocktails 
52129 I U.S. 31 No. 

277-0103 FISH OF STROH 
S h B d
out en FAMILY RESTAURANT 

Wise. The IJ;oducer was Gene Roddenberry, creator of the TV series. At the end of 22 months ofintensive work, Wise (''West Side Story,'' ''The Sound of Music") seemed both relieved and exhilarated. 
"I'm generally pleased with how the picture turned out," he remarked in his modest office at the western end of the Para­mount lot (once RKO where he started as a cutter in 1933). 
"Considering the goals. and aim that we started out to accomplish, I think we · suc­ceeded. The look and feel of the picture is good, the charac­ters are well developed, and the story held up well. At least I think so. We won't really know until the picture opens. We had no sneak previews. This is my 38th film and never before have I released one without a sneak.'' 
WHC holds pre -concert dinner 
To reflect upon the issue of world hunger, Student Govern­ment and the World Hunger Coalition invite all students from ND and SMC to a Pre­Harry Chapin Benefit Concert Meal tomght at 5:30p.m. in the South Dining Hall Faculty room. 
The simple meal will be atten­ded by guest speakers Penny Van Esterik of the Anthropol­ogy Department and Denis Goulet, spokesman on Third World Development. The meal is free to all who attend. 
Logan 
sponsors party 
This Saturday, Dec. 8, from 
9:00 to 11:30 the Logan volun­teers will sponsor their annual Christmas pa.ny~fuc all the kids ..·r 
Activities will include Chri~~­mas carol singing, ~ reindeer shuffle, and a visit from Santa Claus. Lots of help is needed and anyone wishing to volun­teer their time on Saturday is welcome. Get into the Chnst­mas holiday festivities. Call Ed at 3479 or Walter at 3066 if you have any questions. 
Christmas Partv •
-
9:80pm,~? 
!.' 1 a:t 
~ t I . 
c a • a • L a •:l 
m~e <Obseruer staff 
wtsltts unu A illerrg Q!~ristntas 
Administrative Assistant: Ceil Popovich Ad Manager: Bob Rudy Asst. Ad Manager: Mike Holsinger Ad Staff: Joe Murphy, Chris Slatt, Dave Wood, Flo O'Connell, Matt DeSalvo, Barb Pratt, Pete Cannon,Kevin Elpers, Fritz Fischer, Sean Dempsey, Debbie Kirkland, Tom Nillson, Bill Tucker Business Manager: Steve Odland Personnel: Jim Rudd . Controller: Kevin Manion 
Editor-in-Chief: Rosemary Mills . Production Manager: John "Panama Red" McGrath Senior Night Editor: Rod Beard • 
Night Editor~: Pam "Preppie" Degnan, Margaret "Pizza" Kruze, Ann "Ressurrected" Monaghan, Jim "This is My Last Night'' Rudd, and John ''Doughnuts'' Smith. Assistant Night Editors: Ryan "NO DOZ" Ver Berkmoes, Teri Michielutti, Cindy Kliros, Bill Keenan, Danny Tarullo, Eddie Holden, Dierdre "Don't Mess With Me"· Murphy, and Steve "Swonk" Chief Typist: Trish Meehan Typists: Cindy Jones, Paula shea, Beth Willard, Mary Beth Budd, Marilyn Broderick, Terri Blazi, Beth Huffman. Kate Huffman, Amy Peczkowski, Paul Selavko, Tina Terlaak, Kathy Murray, Kim Convey, Bill· Swift, Carol Cornwall, Laura Vasquez, Michele Kelleher, Carol Shuback, Mike Galvin, and Nancy Malone 
Senior Copy Editor: Mike Onufrak Proofreaders, Copy Editors: Lynne-Anne Daley, Tom "Bigshot" Jackman, Maribeth Moran, Kathryn Casey, John Ferroli, Bruce Oakley, John Chaussee, Dodee Carney 
Day Editors: Bob Bernoskie, Patsy Campbell, Keith Melaragno•, Katie Kilkuskie, Mark Kelley, and Tim Koch SMC Uay Editors: Lisa Stanczak, Peggy Schneeman, Kathy Domanico 
Managing Editor: Di::.ne Wilson Executive News Editor: Mike Lewis News Editors: Mark Rust, Mike Shields Senior Staff Reporters: Janet Rigaux, Dan Letcher, Tom Jackman, Tom Hay, John McGrath, and John Ferroli Staff Reporters: Phyllis Washington, Stephan Sharp, Pat Toomey, Rob Powers, Tim Sullivan, Tricia Beajean, Mary Fran Callahan, neil Patterson, Jana Schutt, Andy Segovia, Kelli Flint, Adell Ailleen Lavin, Maribeth Moran,, Kathy Casey, Sal Granata Writers: Paul Mullaney, Bruce Oakley,Kevin O'Brien, Mike O'Brien, Tom O'Toole, Robert Powers, Don Schmid, Jim Sommers, Donna Teevan, Mike Mader, Laura Vasquez, Tim Vercelloti, Robbie Moore, Tim Mitchell, Tom Koegel, Jane Kirby, Jane Barber, Brendan Brown, Carol Buzzard, Chris Carngan, John Cassidy, Lynne Daley, Ann Hesburgh 
Saint Mary's Editor: Ellen Buddy Saint Mary's ews-Editor: Margie Brassil · SMC Staff: Molly Woulfe, Pam .Degoo.n, Terri Michielutti, Mary Kay Leydon,· Mary Leavitt Kathy Murray, Patty Sheehan 
Sports Editor: Mark Perry Assistant Sports Editor: Paul Mullaney Sports Staff: Craig Chval, Brian Beglane, JohnSmith, Beth Huffman, Gary Grassey, Mike Ortman, Frank LaGrotta, Bill Marquard. 
Photo Deitor: Doug Christian Photographers: Chris Salvino, Tim McKeogh, Greg Maurer, Ken Berumen, John "Snap Out" Macor, Tom "Tuu" Jackman, Rick Dohring, and Dave Rum bach 
Editorial Editor: Ann Gales 
Assistant Editorial Editor: Greg Hedges Editorial Layout Staff: Colleen Sloan, Ellen Gorman, Tom Behney, and Tina Terlaak 
Features Editor: K._ Connelly Featlires Staff: Mick Mancuso, Molly Woulfe, Kate Farrell, Tim Sullivan, Mike Korbel, Tom Jackman, Chris Slatt, Sal Granata, Bruce Oakley, Beth Healy, Marcia Gura, I.i:--Blakey, Jane Barber, Christopher Antonio Stewart, Mark Ferron, Gerard "Scott" Curtin, Fr. Griff, Fr. Toohey, Mary Leavitt, Kathy Conley,. The Talking Head,. Patty Sheehan, Bob Bernoskie, Brian Konzen, Mark Muzztllo, Ed McNally, Doug Krietzberg, Pat Byrnes, John Macor,Mary Ahern, Sarah Lanman, Joe Ryan, Bill McGurn, Kathy Murray, Anne Duffy, Norman Burkhardt, Colleen Short, Mark Rust, Frances Regas, Pat Fenlon 
Circulation manager: Greg Hedges Assistant Circulation manager: Rich Fischer Van Driver: Mike Carlson 
Cartoonists: Mike Molinelli, Jim McClure, and Pat Byrnes 
r;.__ • LS il • • !J
8 a • 

a 

The Observer Friday, December 7, 1979 -page '5 
[ 
f 
., Iranian crisis recalls Pearl Harb 

DALLAS (AP) -For thousands of Japanese-Americans, the bombs that turned Pearl Harbor into a funeral pyre 38 years ago today signaled an ugly change in Amencan mood. Some see that mood rising again in the anti-Iranian demonstrations sweeping the United States. 
The naval base in Hawaii was obliterated on Dec. 7, 1941, and the United States declared war on Japan. 
Within a few days of Fearl Harbor, ''people became very aggressive and 'a Jap is a)ap is a Jap,"' recallecf Hiroo Fuku­yama, who was 20 in 1941. ''The only difference between that and the Iranian students now is that it{the anti-) apanese feeling) involved American citi­zens. 
''Like the Iranian students, suddenly we realized what was happening. It happened so fast. Suddenly we were at war," he said. 
Fukuyama and his brother, mother and father, who owned a hardware store in San Pedro, Calif., were among 110,000 .Japanese living in the United States who were forced to auction their homes and pos­sessions for ''relocation'' at 
U.S. internment camps. Of them, 60,000 were naturalized or native-born American citi­zens. 
The Fukayamas were herded into the Amache Relocation Center at Grenada, Colo., in the 
Freshtnen to offer 
Candygratns 
There will be a Christmas Candygram Sale on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday of next week in the North and South Dining Halls. The sale and df"livery of a telegram with a che rful candy cane attached are sponsored br. the Freshman Advisory Counctl. uu 
Each Candygram will cost rwenty-five cents and may be ordered at lunch and dinner times in both dining halls. The sale will continue from Dec. 10-12 and the Christmas Candy­grams will be delivered to anywhere on campus on Thurs­day, Dec. 13. All proceeds from this project will be used for the funding of future Freshman Class activities. 
MASS followed by
supper 
every__
FRIDAY at the 


f
~~:( ~ 
STEREO 
$4 99 
ALBUMS e EA 
The Jell lorl>et Fusion ··soft SJ'd<•··. Urszula Oudziak '"Future Talk'". Jot Sample Ray Brown <;n•l y M.onne '"T~ Thret'". L•w Taba<kon "'Rites of Pan'", LaurirrJo ~meida "Conco•'lo d• 
1\sanjuez". l'li<:hal Urbaniak '"Urbanoak'". 

SALE GOOD FOR 1 WEEK 
Many Other lltJes Available 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
STAN GETZ "GOLD" 

spring of 1942. 
"They didn't call it a concen­tration camp, but that's what it was. There was no brutality as such, but the humiliation was terrible. It was a terrifying experience," said Fukuyama, now executive Vice president of 
U.S. Aerial Inc., a U.S.-Japan­ese television and filmmaking company. 
Fukuyama said he was ac­costed several times on the street, then was forced out of the California State Nautical Guard, where he worked as a machinist. 
''One day when everyone was in formation at the armory, they 
· called my name out. They said, 'You're a Jap. We don't want you here. You're out of the guard."' 
When he sought work at the 
Pearl Harbor Routine alarm screams attack 
by Kathryn Casey StaffReporter 
Thirty-eight years ago today, two young men were washing their clothes just after seven on a Sunday morning when the naval battle alarm screamed through the air. Thinking that the alarm signaled a routine drill, the men were hustling to their assigned stations when the clarion voice of the P A system announced that the 
Japanese had attacked Pearl Harbor. Only one of the men made it to his compartment. 
Jack Gordon reached the third deck below the water line of the USS Oklahoma to find that a torpedo had ruptured the oil tanks, leaving the whole place a slippery mess. The ship soon capsized. 
Gordon estimated that any­where from 500 to 800 of the Oklahoma's 1300 men died in the attack. Those who survived when the ship turned over climbed aboard the California, a neighboring ship which had been bombed but·Jtad refused to sink. The USS Arizona, now the national shrine at Pearl Harbor, had been anchored at the stern of the Oklahoma. Gordon said that all of the men on that ship had gone down with it. 
When the Japanese first ap­peared, Gordon recalled, they were flying low in waves in order to drop torpedoes, and later climbed higher to release the bombs. "They were bombing the devil out of the air base so that the planes couldn't get off," he said. Gordon remembered that the noise of the planes was intensified by the screams of men who were trapped inside the ships. He noted that many others had simply drowned after being forced to abandon their sta­ttons. 
Gordon had not been injured except for a few scrapes on his hips. He chuckled when he explained that he had been a bit heavy in those days and had run imo difficulties when forced to hurry through the 21-inch port­holes. 
Gordon estimated that 80 ships of all types, including submarines, had been in the water at the time of the attack. When the battle ended at nine that morning, the harbor was full of debris. ''Then you knew you were in war," he remarked. 
But naval life carried on almost as if nothing had hap­pened. Gordon and his ship­mat~s-..<teceived clothing from the California until new sup­plies were issued. The men were reassigned to other ships. Gordon ended up in Australia aboard a destroyer tender, a mother ship which carried am­munition for the three des­troyers surrounding her. 
Gordon said that discussing the attack no longer upsets him. He shook his head and smiled. 
''It was too long ago.'' 


Special Monday Night Edition 
PEP HALLY Mon. Dec. 10 
7:30 --ACC Pit

------·· 
... __ .._....,.• 
Digger Phelps Bill Hanzlik 
Guest Commentators: 
Rich Branning 
The Observer Friday, December 7, 1979 -page 6 
December. see no harm in that.'. ation of a powerful Energy·WASHINGTON (AP) -Two of 
But yesterday, Byrd noted Meanwhile, Henry Jatkson, Mobilization Board to speedPresident Carter's most impor­the slow pace of Senate consi­D-Wash., charm an of the Sen­construction of energy projects. 
tant legislative proposals, the deration of the ·'windfall pro­ate Energy Committee, said in
SALT II treaty and the energy Differences must be resolved
fits" tax on the oil industry, and an interview that there is no
plan, will be delayed in Con­by congressional conference
Congress 
said: "I d,•:l't see how it (SALT chance the president's multibil­
gress until next vear, Senate committees which Jackson said
II) could conceivably !-,e brought lion-dollar energy plan will
leaders disclosed yesterday. will meet for the first time,
up this year. Our time is clear Con~ress before both
The postponements will probably beginning today. 
running out.'' Houses qutt work for the year -­mtyn congressional considera­
Asked if the delay into the just before Christmas. In addition, the House andtion during a presidential elec­
delays
I ' election year will jeopardize The House and Senate have Senate are also being asked to
tion year, historically a bad
• approval of the arms pact, approved competing versions of give federal financial aid to the
time for pushing controversial which requires a two-thirds two separate energy measures Chrysler Corp. There is con·legislation through either the
• Senate vote, Byrd said, "If it urged by Carter, a synthetic siderable opposition to the res­
House or Senate.
rmportant goes over to Ja~uary, I would fuels development bill and ere-cue effort.
Senate· Majority Leader Ro­bert C. Byrd had previously said he hoped to at least begin debate on the strategic arms limitation treaty with the Sovier 
legislation 
Union by year's end. 
There had even been earlier forecasts that the debate would begin in October with a final vote on ratification by early 
Environmental Intern Program 

Summer or semester jobs for college students with government, private industry and nonprofit organizations in the environmental field. 
For internships in Ohio, EIP/lower Great lakes 
Michigan, Indiana and 3:!2 The ~.:-~ad e Western Pennsylvaria: Cleveland, OH 44114 
....,_ ----------------­
RIVER CITY RECORDS 
northern ln.dlana's largest record and tape selection 
and concert ticket headquatteIS 
..
$1.00 off 
any_ album or tape exotres Dec. 24, 1979 (limit 1 coupon per person) 

18,000 albums and tapes In stock ND;smc student checks accepted for up to 
120.00 over purchase amount
r 

-.... -· 
l ~ 
Open 10 to 10, 7 dGys a· we•k 
f 
I 
Rivet City Records t I, 
50970 U.S. 31 North
( l
J 
I 
3 mllea notth of campus
.J 
\ 
: 277-4242 
I 
( --------------------­
I 
f 
{ 
~ 
I 
( 
FL~-\SH BlTLLETI~·:
{ 
1 Presenting Mr. Bob ( Mr. Bob brings his bold eastern talents to the 
{ Queens Castle offering a "step ahead of the crowd styling. Proven in competition, let Mr. 
I 
( 
Bob present a new you, the change will do 
f ( 
you good. 
IIJ IPIIOinblent 
f 
2n-1111 or 272-0312 
l 
Mr. Bob 
Tues. & /JJ61p.n~•~ U}-~ H
Wed.. 
8:30.5:30 P.M ~ .. ~ 
f g~::~lf, Qrbr ~nigi.Jts.~·r~:fi!E~~*l 
For His or Her 
Bring in ad & receive 10% off any service 

dean ofGraduate Studies, was presented with a copy ofa book written in his honor. Edited by Zacharia_s P. Thundy [abo_ve nght] andEdward Vasta [above left], the book is a collection of Chausenan essays submztted by scholars around the world. Below -In a presentation immediately following, Fr. Beichner [below left] and Fr. Jerome Wilson [below nght], were hotzored as the first recipients ofthe annual Emily Schossberger Award, given to members ofthe Not1·e Dame community for outstanding support ofscholarly publishing. The award is m1med after the director ofthe University Press from 1961-1974 who passed away last year. ).;.mes Langford [below center], present director of the University Press, made the presentations yesterday in the University Club. [Photo by Rick Dohn'ng]. 
----.,......., 
The7\.T 
1 "azz presents ... 
Fri. Dec. 7 : LaFortune Lunchtime Concert with Rich Prezioso 11:45-1 p.m. 
and that evening . . . Mike Daly 9-10:30 p.m. Rich Prezioso and Friends 10:30-? 
Sat. Dec. 8 : Deck the Halls with ... 
THE THIRD ANNUAL CHRISTMAS NAZZ 9-? 
~ free admission sponsored by NDSU 
--~~--~--~--------~ ----~--~------~--~--·-· ---­
.. -· 

·-.. __ ........................ -. ........................ ----.. ... ... .. ... .. .-. --' -.. _-­
.. -........................ -~ 
-
-
• 
The Observer Friday, December 7, 1979 -page 7 

As holidays near 
Campus prepares for break 
by Tim Vercellotti StaffReporter 
During Christmas break the bustling campus will turn into a ghost town. The sights and sounds of students playing football in the North Quad, or stereos blaring from people's rooms will be noticeably ab­sent. 
This time of relative peace and quiet are when burglaries are most likely to occur. With this in mind Notre Dame Security is making careful preparations. 
Glenn Terry, director of Notre Dame Security, cited the con­stant surveillance of the dorms as the major concern of security during semester break. 
''The dorms will be divided into six different groups, each group being patrolled several times during each shift. The men will be making sure that the doors are locked securely and checking for possible 
fires, '' said Terry. 
In pastJears the dorms were separate into larger groups, thts giving each security guard more area to cover. According to Terry, the addition of more men and the decrease in dorm space that each man is respon­stble for will give each guard more time to check on particu­lar buildings. 
Terry went on to say that students who wish to leave their cars here over break should park their vehicles in D-1 lot. 
''If all of the cars are in one area, there is less chance of any vandalism," stated Terry. 
Terry also offered some advice regardi~g students' valuable possesstons. 
''Students should, of course, lock their rooms securely. Also, if they feel it is necessary, they should leave such items as televisions and stereos at the 
results in few m,ishaps 
Man"beth Moran StaffReporter 
The new method of pre-regis­tration for academic courses ran with fewer mishaps than expec­ted, according to David Kil, assistant registrar. 
"We're very pleased with the way it went," he said. "Very few courses were oversub­scribed, resulting in fewer de­partments needing to remove students from tally lists.'' 
Last month the Office of the 
Graduate dies in automobile 
accident 
Juanita Lopez, a former resi­cfent of Farley Hall and 1978 graduate of the Uni-versity, was killed in an automobile accident in Alberquerque, New Mexico on Sunday, Dec. 2. Funeral services were held ·in Sacred Heart Church, Espanola, New Mexico on Tuesday, Dec. 4. She is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Michael Lopez of Espan­ola, New Mexico and one of 17 children. 
Registrar experimented with a 
new system of preregistration, 
requiring fewer checkmarked 
couses than usual, thus hoping 
to eliminate paper work and to 
help alleviate some of the 
perpetual lines. 
The new method provides for an en masse regtstration for many courses with a priority ~iven to majors for placement m these courses and then to non-majors by order of class. 
In the event of an over registration of any students to any particular class, the Regis­trar mtends to notify the stu­dent of his inability to take that class and offer him placement in another. 
"The line situation was min­imal in comparison to last vear," Kil said. "Hardly any ~tudenrs needed to wait outside Stepan, and we didn't have to use the Rathskellar,'' he added. 
Kil admitted that he was not aware of the line situation on the third floor of O'Shaugh­nessy Hall, where the lines reportedly were the longest. These lines sparked an Obser­ver editorial on the subject. 
No complaints from any de­partment heads have been re­ported as yet. Kil said he had received favorable reaction to the new system after the de­partments realized that no mas­sive reorganization needed to be undertaken. 
.30CShoppiySpree. 
Take Transpo downtown, to Scottsdale. Town and Country. 100 Center and Belleville. Have a ball. 

GetUpaftaGa
tril 

For infocall233-2131 
homes of any off-campus stu­dents staying here for the Christmas break.'' 
Terry also encouraged stu­dents to make sure that they have some sort of idemification on their valuables. 
''That way, should anything happen, it will be much easier to trace any stolen items,'' he said. 
Smoke tips off fire alarm in Holy Cross 
A fire alarm sent the residents 
of Holy Cross Hall outside the 
dorm about 7:30 p.m. last 
night. The Notre Dame Fire 
Department responded to the 
alarm, and investigated the 
basement where one student 
said he had smelled smoke. 
The firemen found n9thing and suggested a sudden. rise in heat may have tripped off the alarm. While several students remained indoors, a majority· responded and left in an orderly manner. 
I I
c • 
. I 
l 
Ifyou're thinking about a technical position after graduation, think about this. How many companies can offer y~u a nucl~ar submarine to operate? The answer is none. EqUipment hke this is available only in the Navy. . 
The Navy operates over half the nuclear r.eactors m America. So our training is the most comprehensive. · 
As a commissioned Nuclear Propulsion Officer who has s~c­cessfuJly completed a year of nuclear training, yo~'ll. ~ece1ve a $3,000 bonus. Plus a top salary and respons1h1hty for advanced technical equipment. . . 
Ifyou're majoring in engineering, math or the physical sci­ences, find out about the Nuclear Navy. Contact: 
Lt Dave Barthold Morri~ Inn. Notrr Dame . (10·15 Dec. 1979) 234-0141 {1\.->0n• 108) NAVY OFFICIILIT'S NOT JUST AIOII,n'S All ADVIJII'URL 
1
IS I 
• 
Nd Senlot Class Ptesents: 
miSTLETOE ffiADNESSI 
a Christmas Semi.formal 
Thuts., Decembet 13 10pm-2am at Fat Wally's OPEN BAR JlO/couple 21 ID's AeSOLUTELY Requlredll 
Limited numbet of tickets sold only In advance at LaFortune r• 11-1 weekdays atattlng Dec.6 

J) 15' off all beers
Specials 
2) 25' oH all mixed drinks 
3) so• oH all pitchers
• include
**** 
., t ......-••••••
• 
~-=~~--~===-----~------~·~·~·~·~~·~··~~··~·~·~·~,~·~·~·~·~·~·~·=·==·====~ 

The Observer 
e 
A SCHOLARSHIP 
BASED ON WHAT 
YOUR KIDS KNOW. 
NOT WHAT YOU EARN. 
You don't have to prove need to earn a Naval ROTC Scholarship. 
If your son or daughter is an outstanding student, particularly in science and math, with high SAT or ACT scores and involved in extracurricular activities, he or she can qualify for this $25,000 four-year scholarship. 
Naval ROTC Scholarships are good at over fifty lead­ing colleges. They pay tuition, books, fees, plus $100 a month living expenses. And lead to a challenging four years as a Navy Officer after graduation: 
Ask your son or daughter to check with their guidance counselor or local Navy recruiter. Naval ROTC Scholar­ships. They're awarded on merit, not on need. 
Lt. John Tindall . Morris Inn, Notre Dame .234-0141 (Room 108) (11-15 Dec. 1979) 
Ideal gift 
The Hesburgh Papers: Higher Values in Higher Education 
by Rev. Tlwodore He.~ burgh 
Friday, December 7, 1979 -page 8 
Khomeini­


[continued from page 1] 
Ghotbzadeh disclosed the ap­parent softening of Khomeini' s stance in the U.S.-Iran crisis after conferring with him in Qom, Pars said. Khomeini had rejected in advance any Stees taken by the Security Counctl, alleging it was under U.S. control. 
"Regarding the U.N. Security Council decision, we of course have noticed that this is not a resolution condemning us . . . This resolution is a step for­ward,'' Ghotbzadeh was quot­ed as saying. He did not mention the resolutions request that Iran immediately give the hostages safe passage out of the country. 
He expressed some reserva­tions over the resolution, adop­ted unanimously Tuesday by the 15-member council. 
"We are not very satisfied with it because they have not condemned the shah. Altoge­ther this is a step forward and a better decision than the pre­
...~us,..,ou.e," he said, referring 


Notre Dame's presic/cnt has /Je£'11 iu office longer tlwn atly otlu:r currently active president of a maior Amaica11 11niversity. Hae he ret;eals the prirnte tl10ughts arul IJl~hir~d-the-scenes events which have rru1rked hi.~ zmlitical, religious. am/ educatioual involvements. 
AvaHohiA now at $12.95 ~ook Department 2nd floor 
The Hammes Notre Dame Sookstore 
I 
INVEN.TORY REDUCTION 
to a Nov. 9 statement issued with the unanimous consent of the Security Council calling for release of the hostages. 
President Carter has refused to return Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi to Iran to stand trial for alleged crimes l;lgainst the people, and approved the Sunday transfer of the deposed monarch to Lackland Air Force Base in Texas from a New York hospital he entered Oct. 22 for cancer and gallbladder treat­ment. 
A spokesman for U.N. Secre­tary-General Kurt Waldheim called Ghotbzadeh '? remarks an ''.Important However, spokesman Rudolf Stajduhar declined further com­ment pending Iran's official reply to Waldht-im, who he said was in telephC'ne contact with Ghotbzadeh. 
In other developments: 
The Pentagon announced tnat three more Soviet ships had been sighted in the Indian Ocean, raising Russian naval strength there_ to 18 ships. It was the second such increase in two weeks. U.S. naval strength in the Indian Ocean-Arab Sea area rose to 21 ships this week _ as the carrier Kitty Hawk led a ,· task force into waters south of · the Persian Gulf. 
Professor lectures about women 
A group of concerned women and men of the Notre Dame­South Bend community are organizing a "T~a~h-In" on Women and Reltgzon in the wake of recent papal and epis­copal actions and pronounce­ments on women. 
Madonna Kolbenschlag, as­sistant professor of American Studies, will comment on the l implications of her recently t! published book Kiss Sleeping Beauty Goodbye in her talk !; ''Sleeping Beauty and the !­Church" tonight at 7:30 P-~-"in Haggar Hall Auditoriufh. ·· · Copies of her book will be av:1.ilable. 
• • . Pasquerilla 
[continued from page 3]
. 
in the community in which he grew up. 
Despite his own losses in the devastating flood of 1977,_ his was a voice of confidence at a time of low community morale. He has served as president of the Johnstown ] aycees, the Greater Johnstown Committee, and the Greater Johnstown Chamber of Commerce. He is also former president of the Pennsylvania Jaycees and former vice president of the United States Jaycees. 
Those who know Frank Pas­guerilla also emphasize that his head has not been turned by success. During a brief and unsuccessful foray into politics as the Republican candidate for state treasurer in 1968, a union endorsement stated, '' Frank Pasquerilla is a self-made man who came from a poor coal miner's family and never lost 
Sat.. , Dec. 8-Sun., Dec. 16  131 N. Main St., Elkhart  
(\\  Across from McDonalds  
~o o <...,.~ '!>.voe' ~\,) 0'~,~C:) ~  in Downtown Elkhart  

See Mitch and Willie, The Wild and Crazy Guys: 
"We Will Not Be Undersold' 
touch with the common ~ople 
as he became successful in 
business.'' -· 
While Pasquerilla has es­chewed politics since 1968, he has not skimped on public service. He was a d~legate to the state's constitutional con­vention, served as chairman of the Governor's Judicial Nomin­ating Commission . for the Appellate Court, and was a delegate to the White House Conference on Balanced Nat­ional Growth and Economic Development. He is a former commonwealth trustee of the University of Pittsburgh and is currently on the advisory board for its Johnstown campus. He is also a former trustee of Saint :t Francis College of Lore~to, which has awarded him an honorary doctorate. He has been honored by the govern­ments of Israel and of Italy. 
Pasquerilla is married to the former Sylvia Guarino ofJohns­town, and they have two child­re!I;'Mark, a junior government 

. 
·-,
'
major at Notre Dame, and ... Leah. . i At first reluctant to have his 
.. 
name attached to the gift, ~ Pasquer1lla agreed to today's ·~ announceme'lt because, he /' said, he hoped it might stimu-~ late others to give of their '{ resources to higher education. 1 
Last ] une, hts gift enabled it Notre Dame to go over the $130 S million goal of its ''Campaign ~~ for Notre Dame'' almost three years ahead of schedule. The campaign total is now $154.5 million with the bulk of the 
c 
money slated to increase Notre:-"j ~­Dame's endowment in order to insure academic quality in the _'tf face of inflation. :i 
-3 
lfD-8MC !BIJATBE presents 
'The Heiress' 
• 
·Dec 6,7,8 
8 pm 
O'Loughlin Aud. St. Mary's 284-4176 
~--------------------~ 


. -. --..... -..._ ...... -...... -.... -----.... --"' -.... -... --.............. -.............. --.. -' --..... ---.... -... -...... ---... -... -...
-. --.. . -" .. -• --.. ...-. ----• • -.-., -._ .. ..,. ----"--: T
....... .. ·-..... -_,_-......... .. --­
~-. 
The Observer Friday, December 7, 1979 -page 9· 
• • I I a S £1 
• 
er-------------­
Jiat JAurnts {!!IJrhittnas ? 


• 

;1 
~. ·Wt'5N ~A t1~(CIM?JS1f4t'S •• , 


. t 
l 
l 
1 
• 
• 
... I 
.
.
. 
..
J. 
atr ~T'L-l--I e;e.cvo~ YOO .. '+J\T~ T'EJJ~ 
IEtif'.:r ~ 'tOU Hlt.9-tr AU.­~ ,, ft?~ Aut-P ~ ·s-t~El TD T+{e J..1EW -~ loet::>) 
~ t£A~ > ~ AOLD ~ ~ v.e aJ fSlSP.A1'e 
LM\G-~'/tJE. ) z.A--zA 
WlTH Fe&:STI~} 
zA z.A-ZA t.A-ZU ZA 
~~ ~,AJ.l9 W\ll-\ 
FOfZ. AJ..U> L~G S"/~ '' 
U"-\C.EA.S' ~ PE:AJ-SE. TO 6t::b ~$ ( : 
! 
I 


i
f. ·... AJJD*L,~ -!. 



-..--------·· -.. -­
~------­
... ;J---. 
-.,-j ­
-------..---. ........_ 


Friday, December 7, 1979 -page 10 
ObserverChristmas gifts 
Confidentiality causes 
The Observer would like to take this opportuni­Student Body President Btl! Roche -presidency ty to thank all the people who have provided us of an organization that has some power. with news to print this semester. To show our 
problems in decisions
appreciation, we have compiled the following SMC Security Director Anthony Kovatch-a fire Christmas list. We hope these gifts will be taken extinguisher and instructions on how to use it. in the humorous spirit in which rh~>v were intended. Remember, it''5 the the Jght that Dan Devine -a coaching job where he has an could be that other· criteria
Editor's Note: The following is
counts. Merry Christmas! undefeated record -Tokyo. · actually determined the tenure
the final columr in a sen'es 
committee's decision--to use
examining the tenure process at University President Theodore Hesburgh Student Body Vice-President Bill Vita -a gift 
extreme examples, the fact that
Notre Dame.
half-fare airline tickets. 
certificate to the University hairstylist. 
a professor 1s a "political
Dean of Students james Roemer-his very own 
Tenure decisions affect stu­dissident'' or conscientious ob­marijuana-smelling dog, and a student body that 
SMC Student Body President Pia Tngiani -a 
dents as much as they do jector might be the real rea­"drinks responsibly." 
board that "communicates effectively" and teachers, though granted in a son for his dismissal. For''accomplishes goals.'' 
less personal way. It is the students this 1s a concern
Vice-President of Student Affairs john Van 
quality of our education that is because we would be deprivedWolvlear-Grecian Formula 16, a keg of Pabst 
Planner President Don Ciancio -women m 
on the line with every tenure in such cases of the professor'sBlue Ribbon, and the ability to take someone Flanner on every other floor this year. 
decision. Some people believe unique contribution to our edu­under 3 5 years old seri<?usly. · that universities are places for cation; unique precisely be­
Student Union Director Tom Hamel -two 
academics to gather and ex­cause he or she is a political
University Provost Timothy 0 'meara -more 
complimentary tickets to the event of his choice. 
change ideas, and that students dissident or conscientious ob­merely provide the funds for jector.
exposure. 
SMC President john Duggan -a pre-fabricated Chris Stewart [features wn'terJ -relief for the 
the professors to carry on their This leads us. to consider thelibrary. -starving masses.irrG:ambodia, the destruction of research and idea-exchange. 
criteria themselves: teaching,Iran, and a nuclear-free world. 
Others believe, however, that a research, and service. We
SMC Director ofStudent Activities Mary Laverty 
university exists for its stu­believe the criteria were used-a one-way plane ticket to Acapulco. · Paul Lewis-a Kennedy in the White House. 
dents, and this is the case with last spring in such a way thatNotre Dame. Therefore, tenure many excellent teachers were
Madonna Kolbenschlag, Albert LeMay, Miles ND Security Director Glen Terry -a 15-minute 
decisions should be made with dismissed 10 favor of fine
Coiner, and the rest-tenure. pass. 
the following question in mind: researchers. We realize, how­''Digger'' Phelps -his own talk-show with What is best for the education ever, that teaching is not ofPaul Lauer -a student newspaper of his own. himself as the only guest and a new vinyl coat. 
of the students at this univer­utmost importance in all areassity? We feel this qu~suon of srudy. In some fields, aoften gets lost 10 a mtre of renowned scholar who is a 
competmg concerns.
Justice Notes good teacher may be the most
Student input into the tenure effective type of professor in process should be considered the classroom or laboratoy situ­an essential part of the de­ation. The issue is an ambigu­
An appetite for life 
cision-making process, espec­ous one, and we believe thatially as regards the area of 
each department at Notre Dame Penny Van Erterik teaching. At present, student should be encouraged to decide 
participation at Notre Dame
Tomorrow the Cambodian family. we sponsored what is the best order of
French bread, and pastries that were formerly only takes the form of <::~udent
will leave our home. In some ways we have priorities for that particular
part of their diet. 
evaluations, which, according
shared so much with them that we may feel department.
After the Vietnamese entered Cambodia, the to an October report of thesomewhat empty. But in truth, we also shared Faculty Senate, many profess­The tenswn we at Notre Dame 
the bathroom, telephone, T.V., refrigerator, and family members escaped to their home town, other focal household items, a delicate task in and joined the throngs making their way to the ors feel either inadequately feel between the primacy of 
express the students' opinions, teaching and the primacy of
the most loving families. As they gained some Thai border. In the refugee camps, the family control over our language, environment, and lined up twice a day to receive a bowl of rice and or are so poorly utilized in the research is one which calls us to cultural rules of an American lifestyle, we all a vegetable curry made with bones and fat. decision-making sessions as to examine whether the Christian 
render them worthless. values Notre Dame espouses
began to recognize that the refugees who joined Eggs, meat, fruit, and noodle dishes were us last September were now immigrants, ready available for cash from the peddlers whowalked A major problem 'in Notre are reflected in the criteria used 
to face South Bend on their own. It has been a through the camps, advertising their tempting Dame's tenure process is the for renure decisions. Notre 
confidentiality and secrecy of Dame has a long tradition of
wt.ird and wonderful few months, and I wish I foodstuffs to the refugees. could communicate my feelings of frustration, That September day when a truck stopped in the system. though it is true close relationships between ad­guilt, . love, anger, compassion, and pride, front of our house, unloading paper bags, that in some cases confidential­ministration, faculty, and stu­
ity serves to protect the indi­dents.
watchmg a mother and three teenaged children cardboard boxes, and four Cambodians, I felt he gin to put aside the horrors ofCambodia in the totally unprepared to meet their needs. But, one vidual professor. Confidential­We believe Notre Dame needs last few years, and begin to build a new life hundred pounds of rice and two quarts of fi'5h ity in the tenure system pre­to come to a greater under­here. sauce later, we were well on our way to sents three major problems: standin~ of itself as a Catholic 
university. Externally, Notre
Cambodia requires at least iooo tons of food per accomodating our food habits. The first meal I professors not knowing what day to stabilize its starv~ population, and 20p,Q cooked for them resembled the meal that will be information is in their profess­Dame should reflect excelle-Qce tons per day to repair the damages of served this evening--fried rice, salad, and tl .. ional files; professors not know­1rce<lucation, especially under­malnutrition. The task of procuring and Item by item over the last few months, we ing at what level of the tenure graduate education, and should transporting such an immense amount of food negotia'':'d our food preferences, substituting, process the decision on their make manifest Christ's pre­has begun, but is hampered by political trading, and rejecting items now that choices are case was made; and professors sence in the world roday. 
Internally, we should strive to
considerations. This week, the hunger coalition available to them. Chicken,/ork, or beef mixed not knowing the reason for the and student government are dramatizing world with vegetables and frie with fish sauce decision on their particular meet the obligations a Catholic 
became our staple. My friend cooks irwith fish case. The Faculty Handbook. university has to its own com­hunger issues through the Harry Chapin benefit 
concert tonight, and a hunger awareness meal sauce and pickled onwns; I cook it with salt and states that in the case of a munity, meaning fair employ­this evening (5:30 p.m., second floo.., South bean curd. She fries with pork fat; I fry with negative decision the depart­er/employee relations, humane 
Dining Hall). corn oil. My friend drinks non-dairy creamer ment chairperson will convey treatment of all persons in the Let me share some of the food-related with sugar; I substituted skim milk powder and the reasons for the decision to community and open dialogue experiences of this family, to illustrate sqme of explained that some of our food only looks like the faculty member. We know among community members. the changes that have taken place in their diet as food. I make cole slaw; she packs my slaw in of several professors, however, The issues are not just about 
appeals procedures and studentthey moved from the work camps, to the refugee bottles and pickles it in vinegar, sugar, and who solicited from their depart­
water for a week. -ment chairpersons the reasons input. The heart of the discus­
camps, and finally, to South Bend. In the work camps of Pol Pot, each member of She puts ~~r fish s.auce in my spaghetti; I put for not receiving tenure, and in sion is a call · to stop and the family worked in the fields or forests from my broccoli m her p1gs ear soup. I can roll rice not one case was an answer examine where we want to go 
as a university and how we plansunup without breakfast, and received three paper delicacies filled with noodles, shredded made available to them. Con­fidentiality and secrecy in these to get there. Out of this critical 
spoons of cooked rice at noon. To stretch the vegetables, and ground nuts; she can make a nee, water was added to make rice soup. Those chocolate cake. And we both fry bananas. situations have deep implica­reflection will arise a new who worked in the jungle might obtam edible Gradually, we have both come to relax our rules tions. If professors do not know understanding of Notre Dame leaves to add to the soup. Meat was available of food use and blend our foods. From virtual for what reason they were and a creative hope which will when a work animal died, but was shared with so starvation, they have come to make choices ~ismissed, they cannot know if, spur us to improve the tenure 
process for the future.
many people that servings were miniscule. At about what food is appropriate and prestigious 10 fact, the stated tenure cri­sundown, they ate a second meal of rice if in this country. We sip our cokes teria of teaching, research and 
Student Committee on Tenure
supplies were sufficient, and slept, no doubt, and eat our donuts, and try not to think about service were fatrly applied. It dreaming of the delicate spicy side dishes, starvation. 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The n~ws. is reported as accurately and
-The Observer_ 
as obJectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief. ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor............. . .. Mark Perry represe~t t~e opimon of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor .. ...Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 th~ Eduonal Board. Commentaries Edztonai Editor.............. Ann Gales Photo Editor ..............Doug Christian 
. . ' 
opm10ns and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ........Steve Odland newspaper publish~d by the students abl~ to all members of the community, News Editor ................ .... Mark Rust Production Manager .... John McGrath of the University of Norre Dame du lac an~ .the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager ......... Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It does not opm1ons on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor .... .Ellen Buddy Controller.. ..............Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brassil Circulation 1anager......Greg Hedges 



The Observer -Editorials 
Friday, December 7, 1979 -page 11 
Apathy: Students in the 70's 
Michael Onufrak 
The decade of the 1960's saw Students struck classt:s, profes­cern than himself. Today, one 
the most significant changes in sors signed petitions, Fr. is only concerned with getting social and political conscious­Hesburgh issued a condemning the very best job po5sible after ness in this nation's history. statement, and 8,000 marched graduation and subsequently The group most influential in in South Bend, while nearly making the most money. inspiring these changes was not 200,000 marched in Indi•,tjdualism has run rampant the grouP. in political power, but Washington, D.C. among youn~ people to the that sull waiting to rule, There was a generation gap, point where It has become an American youth--especially a communication gap, and a obsession. For today's stu­college students. That this credibility gap. dents to think or act as a group attitude has all but died out Not that Notre Dame and is nearly impossible. Evidence among young people in this Saint Mary's seethed with of this can be seen at class decade is no secret. In fact, anger and violence as did meetings which descend into there is no better example of larger, secular, p1ore liberal idle charter, at political or social this regression by college stu­institutions, but this campus organizations where five or six dents--from political and social did echo much of the change show up for a meeting, at a hall leaders to apathetic spectators that was occurring both socially fund drive--in a hall peopled by of society--than a comparison and politically across the na­the children of the most af­between the group of students tion. That's all been changed fluent--where a monetary goal at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's now. cannot be met, and at a dining during the 1969-70 school year America, with the ending of hall food fight where today's and our own student body. the Vietnam war and the students prove they cannot do · t'ofetJ()C:atliOO 
Ten years ago there were, of trauma of the Watergate scan­the most basic of human func­course, no undergraduate dal, has come about-face. tions--eat--together. women enrolled at du Lac. Where placards and raised fists In twenty-four days the dec­Co-education was a dream that were once, the symbols of ade of the Seventies will have wot}ld take four more years to America's youth, now leisure run its course. I do not expect implement. There were signs suits and roller-skates have 
current trend among college
of change, though: co-ed taken their place. 
students to end with the dec­
classes with Saint Mary's, the Collegiate hedonism, a leg­
ade; that would be foolish. For
first women cheerleaders (from acy of the ''Animal Houses'' on 
that reversal to occur, it will
SMC), a proposal to relax college campuses of the 1950's, 
probably take an event as
parietals (by allowing women has returned and is in full force 
serious and as close to college
into men's dorms for study here. Toga parties, panty the Vietnam war
students as purposes on weekday after­raids, pep rallies, and other 
(much as that tragedy resur­
noons), and a questionnaire in traditional methods of colle­
rected the students of the
The Observer on the future of giate escape have returned to 
Sixties from the doldrums of the
co-education in general (most the campuses of the Seventies. 
Fifties). The current crisis in
students favored it). These phenomena are a by­
Iran or the ever-impending
Ten years ago None Dame product of the conservative turn 
perils of nudear energy could 
sent its football ream to the America has taken since 
prove to be such a spark. But if
Cotton Bowl, the first bowl President Nixon resigned. In 
either of these two potential
game for ND since 1925. the liheral Sixties, there was 
tragedies were to reach frui­
Hunger in Biafra, the thriving something to get mad about 
tion; the price would be many
civil rights movement, and try to remedy. In the 
deaths and much destruction.
Chappaquiddick, and the sup­conservative Seventies, there is posed death of Beatie Paur apparently nothing to get ex­In the Seventies, we are not McCarrney were on the student cited about, and one can study at war. In the Sixties we were. body's mind. There was a large only for so long. So we party. If apathetic youth is part of the demonstration in front of the Accompanying this return to price one must pay for a Memorial Library in support of conservatism has come a new peaceful world, then I will pay Vietnam Moratorium Day, and seriousness about American It. If an aggressive and in Washington, D.C., rwelve college students. But the ·inspirational youth is the con­members of the Notre Dame/ seriousness is misdirected. No sequence of a turbulent world, Saint Mary's community were longer does a college student then I will forsake it. arrested for protesting in front place imperative value upon the But only so long as I don't of the Pentagon. Notre Dame's state of rhc ecologv. peac,. in have to remain a college stu­own demonstrations included dte world, or some wider con-dent much longer. the placement of white crosses with the names of ND alumni who had been killed in Viernam The Badger on tht-lawn in front of the ROTf building, and a brawl that erupted between students 
Letters to a lonely mother
over the protesting of inter­views arranged by the Place­ment Bureau for Dow Chemical 
(manufacturers of r1apalm). M. Hymie Heaney, S.]. Kotz 
Ten of the students were sus­During this hectic time be­about her, and even the good me to her, and I realized she prepared me for a businesspended the following semester. 
fore finals, it is nice to know news ofour super win over Iowa was shy and wanted to ralk ro career. I've brought in millionsAlbum reviews in The that young men's hearts still State didn't cheer me up. me. So I walked over to the Ad. as the symbol of N.D., and it is
Observer included Abbey Road, 
fondly turn to love. We found After a great Veal Parmesan Building, and called out: only fair that I use some of myby the Beatles and eponymous in the library the following dinner, I packed up my books "Gee, it sure is cold out. talents for personal fulfill­
Crosby, Stills, and Nash. Both 
letter scribbled in a notebook. and went over to the library, Isn't it?" ment.
albums, classics of pop music, Having changed author's meet her But didn't me, "Well, where
were panned by the reviewers, the hoping to on the Mary hear ah, are you 
name, we present it here -· second floor. Still, rry as I did, and realizing this, I decided to from, Mary, anyway?'' Ialthough one had to admit that unedited--with the hope that it I accomplished nothing. I sat climb to the top of the Ad. blurted out trying to change thethe harmonies on the CSN 
will spread Holiday cheer to all with my Calculus book in front build., and have :1 chat. subject.
effort were deserving of some of you. of me, but solved only two· Walling around the building, But before Mary could an­merit. The Observer itself had problems over a four hour I found a fire escape, and in no swer, a securiry guard calledjust made the transition from a 
four-page news to Dear Ma period. time I had managed to reach out from the ground, ''Hey
sheet an 
I knuw J'm just a Freshman, Imagine my disappointment! the top. I was immediately you, up on the dome, it's afrereight-pa~e daily newspaper. 
and have been at school for only With only two weeks to go surprised at how tall she was, pariet~}s. You'II have toTwo edttors-in-chief resigned 
four months, but I am in love. before finals, the object of my Mary must have been at least leave.
from the paper ten years ago, The other afternoon, while I affections did not show up to twice my height, and from up Before I left, howevc r, Iwhich wasn't so unusual be­was coming back from class, study. Despairing, I gave up on close I could see that she was a asked Mary if I could see hercause the Student Union thinking about N.D.'s great win her as a spoiled nch girl after a bit heavy. Nevertheless, she again, and to my astonishmentDirector had already quit and it over Valpo. I saw the girl of my Mrs. degree. Had she put on carried her two tons well. she agreed. Wah a litrle luckseemed like everyone else in­dreams. I hadn't been so that golden dress only to tease? "So Mary," I began, Mary might go to the Hallvolved in student government excited since I pulled a seven on I was convinced that she had, "What's your major?" Formal with me ... and whohad at least threatened to follow my double Emil. There she and believing that she had "Marketing," she replied. knows where it might go fromsuit. 
stood in the distance, radiant-· forgotten all about me, I re­"Why's that?" I asked. "Do there.
There was a new major in the the sun shining through her turned to my room with a heavy you really think you want a Well, Ma, it is gerting late,college of Arts and Letters that golden hair. For moment I business career?'' and have Calc
year, it was called American a heart. I got some 
fancied that I had caught her But there she was! As I Then I thought about you, problems due tomorrow that IStudies and fifteen students eye, but she looked right past passed the Administration Mother, About how you hap­have not even starred yet. I'llwere interested. Blood, Sweat, me. She was so distant, so building close to midnight, she pily slaved over a stove pre­keep you posred on how thi .1gs
and Tears appeared here in much above me, that I could not was still standing in the same paring our meals, about how all work out, and I really lookconcert, as did Smokey approach her, and I returned to place that I had seen her that of us were just tickled at the forward to introducing Jou to
Robinson and the Miracles. 
my room very blue. afternoon. way you and Father made all Mary when you and Da comePep rallies were still held in the That evening I took out the She looked pure as gold the sacrifices you did for us. down for the Marquette gameold fieldhouse, Grace Hall was 
''dog book,'' but I could not standing atop the Ad. Buildmg, "Well," Mary .::'lntinued, "a this winter. 
not yet completed, and every­
find her listed, and none of my and I hated myself for having woman· s place is not just on the 
one was enraged by President Your Loving Son,
frienrts knew who she was, ev~r doubted her. Mary's dome. My years here on top of

Nixon's invasion of Cambodia. ·joseph
either. Still. I could not forget outstretched hands beckoned the dome have, I feel, really 
-----:---------·-­
[ Friday, December 7, 1979 -page 12) 
:~ 
joy, Kiss Sleeping Beauty Goodbye::-. 
has proved to be just that -an effective and authentic expression of the fragmented female sptrit. 
Kiss Sleeping Beauty Goodbye• is a serious, scholarly examination of the depth and breadth of the feminine experience which is at the same time highly readable and coherent. Ma­donna Kolbenschlag's first book, circulated among disgruntled nuns in Washington by Sr. Canton at the time of Pope ] ohn Paul II' s visit, is constructed on a framework of classic fairy tales. The stories represent concepts of and attitudes toward women inherent in many cultures. Madonna uses these myths as illus­trative (sometimes causal) sources for stunted development in the female. 
The chapters of the book are titled "Sleeping Beauty at Seventeen ''Snow White and her Shadow,'' "Cinderella and Women's Work," ''Goldilocks and the Search for the 
iss Sleeh-tnu Beaut"' Goodb'lJe Perfect Fa~ily," "Bea':lty Exorcises 
rr o J J the Beast, ' and "Extt the Frog·adonna Kolbenschlag Prin~e." . . 
s Amtdst the abundance of femmtstoubleday) 8.95 literature that is still being produced, -Kiss Sleeping Beauty Goodbye stands out as the first to comprehen­
It is rather a bold suggestion -that 
ne woman sively examine the spiritual dimen­
should consider herself sion of human liberation. Kolben­he mouth-piece for the female schlag writes of Tillich' s three levelsxperience. So bold, in fact that she of existence to explain the threeerself would question the plausibili­stages of growth a woman must goof the statement. But to· her great 
iMother Courage and 
!Theatre rusB 1-T~r Children 
December 7, 8 and 9!tf:I; pm 
The focal point of any play is the actor. ~e is the artist wh<? transform.s the human condition into a living and breathmg symbol to whtch an audtence responds. Writes Living Theatre originator, ] ulian Beck, ' 'to see the human face to hear the spoken word, the two maxima of experience." Because the acto~ defines Theatre, the actor--audience relationship is distoned when the actor is lost in a montage of visual effec,ts. . 
I.U.S.B.'s production ofBenold Brecht sMother Courage and Her Children reflects a desire to illustrate the ~pact, in3:nity, an.d i~umanity of war upon the human individual, but the excmng and u;tteresttng VIsual elements.of the show upstage the a~tors' expressions of thetr chru:ac.ters. The result ts that the audience is left m a quandry as to the dramatic ~~~ent of the play. . 
Benold Brecht viewed Theatre as a means to an end. Use art for somethmg other for art's sake," he wrote. Deciding that the way to achieve this goal was to force the audience to specific response br detaching £!tern from ~y empathetic stance towards a play, he hoped to ahenate the audience to a pomt where they could objectively view the actions on st~ge. . . 
Director Warren Pepperdine att~mpts to /ut thts theory. to pr~cttce m Mother Courage by varying drama~1c styl~ an abruptlr_ changmg. stghts and sounds to the point where the audience 1s made consciously aware that they­·are attending a thea~rical event; the actor's dress on. stage; the stagemanager is visibly seen at h1s consol~; the backstag~ area IS c~mpletely un~asked; atonal songs and accompanymg dances are Intersperse<.. betwe~n acuon; set pieces are moved by the act~rs themselves; the bann~rs ~;>roclaun t~e even~s that· will occur in a succeedmg scene.. ThC!mas. c;. Mtller s set. pr~vtded .th~s atmosphere very effectively thrC!u&h Its st.mphcuy. Pepperdme s musiC Is disheartening enough to make 1t mterestmg, and the sounds of war are adeq\lately repres.ente~ br_ the ~ctC!rs. The pJay is a visua~ and aural feast which sparks the tmag•t?atton wuh Its entrancmg ~rc.hestrauon. . . 
Yet, to discern the full mtent of Mother Courage, It ts of extreme l':lponan<:e that the viewer concentrate upon the ponrayal of characters, especially their relationships with one another, as the, Rlay·deals with th!= eff~ct of war up?n these relationships. States Brecht, Every character 1s budt up from Its relationship to. the othe~ char3:cters. ptat m~.ans ~~t an actor has to be as interested m hts panner s playmg as hts own. Thts ts. ~hat the play la<:ked. The movements by the main characters were too anticipatory, too facile to project the sense of immediacy and spontaneity every play sholJ;ld evoke: ~e expectations of social commentary Mother Cour~ge was wntten to tgnue among the audience fell shon because of the fadure of the characters to become trudy three-dimensional. The protaganist, Mother Courage (It is unable to establish the identity of any of the characters, for the program makes n~ delineation--~ policy I award highjrais.e) was limited i~ her role as the 1:>bstmate opportumst ~etause she faile at umes to c~eate dial?gue ~d movement from the ensumg development. The chaplam who hides With Mother Courage from the Catholics shows a lack of variation in either tonal or cinematic; qualities which cloud any tru.e believabilitr. .Mother Courage's friend, the cook, however, resJ?Onds wtth a fresh vitality that grabs the audience when the rest of the acuon seems to slop away from them. The best part of the .Production are the so~gs and dances which brings ~1 the actors to respond wtth comm!-lnal enthu~t~sm. There are the few pomts where the visual becomes the nghtful dommton of the actor~ ~d gtves th~ pl.ay strength. 
Whatever the limitations of the play, however, It ts wonhwhde JUSt to see. a different theatrical convention than is usually available. ~t takes a cenam a.nlount of courage to produce Mother Co~rage, and w~de ~e actor was forsaken for the spectacularism that Brecht s th!!ory of alien~tton ~ords,. I believe that I.U.S.R has shown what director Peter Brook believes IS a baste tenet of Theatre: that a Play is play. 
through to reach maturity: the heteronomy (I am determined by circumstances), the autonomy (I take responsibility for myself) and the theonomy (I transcend my ego space and fuse with a larger force). 
Appearing at a time when Ameri­ca' s pathological obsession with ''ME'' is leveling off, Kiss Sleeping Beauty Goodbye presents the Ameri­can public with the timely and uniquely Christian alternative world­view that is not outra~eouslyasthetic, unrealistic or impossible to attain.· 
The author believes that many liberation-minded women get caught in the autonomous stage, become overly focused on the self and fail to recognize that there is a transcendent reality which is a natural extension of the joining of so called male-female qualities which ideally occurs in the second stage. 
The autonomous woman must rise out of a state of spiritual dwarfism which is characteristic of the passive, waiting to be restued first stage Sleeping Beauty. Kolbenschlag points out that for centuries woman has been deprived of the opportunity to' function in situations mvolving moral, ethical questions. The home too often is a refuge where domestici­ty and MOTHERHOOD have dictated a prescribed set of values, with no room for innovation and transcen­dence. 
Although the author does perceive the male to be instrumental in the relegation of woman to a pedestal position, whe also acknowledges that the woman took the hand that offered to help her onto that fedestal, and that many women wil have to be dragged ''kicking and screaming'' off of it. 
A major breakthrough is the point at which a woman [most ofwhom have reason to be angry at men1refuses to blame everything on the Enemy [Man] and recognizes her own -com­plicity in whatever lacerations of spirit she has suffered. 
There is a remarkable (not surpri­sing, but noteworthy) tone of com­
passion in the book for all figures who have contributed to the spiritual oppression of women -mothers, fathers, men in generaL In fact the last chapeNJf the book "Exit the Frog-Prtll!~" is a sensitive appeal to th~!tle (o seek to liberate himself fr.om the roles which he has chosen 
a.t.l which he has been forced to play. 
This chapter is vastly different from 
the extensively researched, scholarly 
chapters which precede it. The 
inconsistency does not, however, 
weaken the piece.' In fact, it 
demonstrates that the author has at 
least one foot in the theonomy stage 
of her development. She is able to 
transcend her concerns for personal 
liberation and reach out to others, 
both male and female who need first 
to discern the patterns of their 
self-deception, and finally to inte­
grate the facets of themselves which 
have been systematically subjected to 
alienation. 
This work which emphasizes trans­formation has somethmg to say to all people, but especially women ­women of any race, education· and experience. The author told me how upon learning that her interviewer for a program was a black woman, whe was a bit nervous. ''If there was ever a book that addressed itself to the white middle-class woman, this is it,'' she said. And yet, that black woman identified completely with the insights and experiences related in the book. "Right on!," she said. 
It is impossible, therefore, consider­ing the complexity and dense texture of such a work, to give anyone who has not read the book sufficient illustration of the universal applica­bility of the book across social, age and race barriers. This is a book which speaks to all women about the experience and responsibilities of women to themselves and to the world. It is a critical yet compassion­ate view of the factors which have contributed to installation of women as secondary figures in the global patriarchy. b K C II 
Y onne Y 

That Championship Theatre 
South Bend Civic Theatre was for .and got the abandoned Firesration started in 1957. Buddy Powers, a on Portage Avenue. dancer, and Dick Robertson were Cat On A Hot Tin Roofwas the first members ofPresbyterian Players and production at the Firestation in 1968. wanted a theatre with more scope They only have to pay a dollar a year since Players was connected with the but the utilities are going higher and Church and at that time were rather higher, adding to the expenses of limited in their selection of plays. repairing the old i)uilding. The SBCT 
After an all-night session they got the building because it is on the came up with the concept of a theatre site of Civil War's Camp Rose and dedicated to bringing the best of they are to maintain it for historical theatre to South Bend, giving local reasons. The group has a fine list of talent a shot at acting, directing, plays to its credit including some and writing. They also hoped to premieres. SBCT tries to bring plays bring prominent people to theatre to to the area that the public would lecture to the group .... and they did ordinarily not see at reasonable manage to bring in Cyril Richard in prices ... they have a reputation for 1958. doing avant guard things. They also 
The theatre started in the round in try to keep a children's workshop the ballroom of the old Oliver Hotel. going since theatre is becoming more The first musical, (Guys a1Jd Dolls), and more important in education. was performed on Saint Mary's 
This weekend SBCT offers That 
O'Laughlin stage and after a while Chamjnonship Season. This intense the group started taking the dramas drama written by Jason Miller is to the Little Theatre stage and stayed ·about four former teammates and a there until I. U. 's theatre department high school basketball coach meeting became busy ... then the move was to for a twenty year reunion. The the Morris Civic Auditorium. occasion begins light-heanedly, but During this nomadic period, the gradually the pathos and desperation 
group had to have various homes to of their present lives is exposed. have meetings and build sets and Performances begin tonight at 8:30 rehearse ... Oliver Hotel. .. Unitarian p.m. and continue on Dec. 7, 8, 9, 
and 13, 14, 15, 16. Shows are 8:30Church, warehouses on S. Main ... 
p.m. everyday except Sunday's per­Niles Ave....Colfax Ave....Quanset formance which is a 2 p.m. matinee.
hut on Ireland Rd., 3rd floor of Bear 
Call 234-5696 or 233-0683 for
Furniture store. Finally they asked reservations {the theatre is tiny!). 


All of us were innocent those days, and all of us were guilty. It was wartime. The Fleet was in, and thirty thousand sailors from Admiral Halsey's navy overflowed the guite streets of my peaceful little city by the sea in Maine. Some of the gJ.rls from my high school class dated sailors, and were considered cheap. Some of the women who went out with sailors were married ladies with husbands overseas; local gossip, while pitying them, disapproved of their being unfaithful to their G .I. Joes. I worked after school in a Walgreen's drug store in the heart of downtown, and with an air of grave dist>leasure, I sold contraceptives to lonely service kids, under an exotic vanety of trade names. I think I understand now that these purchases, that represented sin to me, amounted mostly, for the lads thoughtful about lust at a Walgreen's counter, the triumph of hope over experience, because there could not have been that many women available to them. Anyway, as a drugstore clerk, I thought I had a ringside seat for watching the town go to hell. I really felt sad for guys not much older than myself, who had to spend their shore leaves in a city that didn't trust them to leave its women virtuous; and the virtuous women wouldn't talk to them at all because it was wartime, and strangers wearing uniforms couldn't be trusted not to take advantage. In a time of war, the guilty and the innocent seem to sin against each other; that's how collapsible virtue and vice become in the years of national distress. Everybody's excuse for making a multitude of mistakes was: "Don't you know there's a war on?" 
In 1944, two days before Christmas, I waited on a young swabbie who bought postcards and stamps, and then expressed his delight in finding a Walgreen's drug store, ofall places, in Portland, Maine. "Back home," he said, "we got a Walgreen's, too." I forget where "back home" was for him; but I remember thinking: "Any town that has a Walgreen's sounds to me like the kind of town I wouldn't want to live in." 
"Most of the stuff they're selling in here now," I said, "is pretty lousy, because there's a war on." He grinned at me. "I know there's a war on," he said. "I'm fighting it. How about you?" 
The conversation glittered between us until the store's closing. I invited him to stop by with me to see a girl named Jane. "We're gomg out for hot chocolate," I said. I wasn't sure if he would want to come, because I had always heard that sailors prefer their hot drinks to be rum. My grandfather was a sailor, and he preferred rum. But obvously, at twenty, this kid hadn't spent most of his life at sea. 
"Has she got a sister?" he said. 
) ane was a girl I dated regularly in those days. Absurdly patriotic as she was, I knew that after meeung young Bluejacket Bob, she would want to knit him a sweater or buy him a Bible to wear over his heart. As an only child, she didn't have a sister, but I figured for an hour, she was enough girl for both of us. The three of us were only going to drink cups of hot chocolate, for God's sake. It wasn't as though we were attending a dance marathon. 
I never realized, until that evening, how closely Jane had been following the war in the Pacific. The two of us had talked onfy of the perishable venties, like Sinatra movies, venereal diseases, and the validity of Holy Orders in the Anglican Church. We talked ofSinatra movies, because we attended them; of 
-----· 
at's All This, Then? * 
~,11
Gerard Curtin 
:INEMA--ON CAMPUS 
Grease on Friday and Saturday, December 7 and 8, at 7:00, 9: 1~. and 
11:30. Engineering Auditorium. A highly successful film that takes a nostalgic view of life during the bucolic 19~0's. Adapted from the long-running Broadway musical. Starring ) ohn Travolta and Olivia Newton-John. Midnight Express on Wednesday and Thursday, December 12 and 13 at 7:00, 9:15, and 11:30. Engineering Auditorium. The harrowing account of a young man's ordeal when caught in possession of drugs in the Middle East. 
CINEMA--OFF CAMPUS 
Silent Movie (times unavailabl~ 
Forum Cinema I. Force 10 From Navarrone (times unavailable) Forum Cinema II. Andjustice For Allat 7:20 and 10:00. 
Forum Cinema III. AI Pacino stars in' this hard-hitting comedy about a lawyer's efforts to fight the judicial system. Star Trek at 7:30 and 10:00. Town and Country I. The Starship Enterpn'se is brought out of drydock and pressed-into service to combat a mysterious alien heading in a direct course for Earth. Starring William 
Shatner Jof ''Promise'' margarine fame) an Leonard Nimoy. Breaking Away at 7:30 and 9:30. Town and Country II. A young bike rider from Indiana becomes obsessed with romantic visions of Italy and aspires to become an Italian cham­pion biker. Starring Dennis Christopher, Barbra Barrie, and ) ackie Earl Haley, ) r. Apocalypse Now at 6:15 and 9:00 . River Park Theater. Francis Ford Coppola's "masterpiece" about a man caught between his civilization and savagery during the Viet Nam war era. Starring Marlon Brando and Martin Sheen. Halloween at 7:4~ and 9:30. Scottsdale Theater. A gorey horror film about a man who comes back to terrorize on Halloween. 10 at 7:30 and 9:4~. University Park 
I. Dudley Moore stars in this romantic comedy about a middle aged Hollywood composer who has an affair with a beauuful star. 
PERFORM,'\!\C-:---0~ '..:\r-..1P~rs 
Concert--Friday, December 7 at 
8:00. ACC. Harry Chapin comes to Notre Dame, a fine and sensitive performer. Concert, Saturday, December 8. Stepan Center. Fireworks and Honeytree perform on campus. Play, Friday and Saturday, December 7 and 8 at 8:00. O'Laulblin Auditorium (SMC). !'he Heiress, the Goetzes' play about a young woman's intense struggle for self-assertion. Concert, Sunday, December 9, at 
4:00 and 8:00 p.m. Sacred Hearr Church. The Notre Dame Musical Department Christmas concen. 
Nutcracker Jf~ 

''The Nutcracker,'' a fanciful ballet 
about a child's dream of Christmas, 
will be presented tomorrg~·by 
Southold Dance Theater·~-the 
Notre Dame Orchestra. T..:fo· per­
formances will be ~iven at the Morris 
Civic Auditorium 1n South Bend: a 
matinee at ~00 and an evening 
performance~~~OO pm. 
As a major ebange from previous SDT productions, a single dancer will assume all the:; rrincipal male:; r<;>les and a~r wd dance the pnnctpal femal~s. ''This is the traditional approach to the ballet,'' explains choreogra~,>her Ann Dunn. 
The pnncipal dancers "fill be Marcia Heintzberger and ~-·L}unn, who is also artistic director :Qf.S.DT. Tchaikovsky's music will Se con­ducted by Adrian Bryttan. Making a special appearance at the matinee will be Santa Claus, who will distri­b~te. candy to children during inter­mission. 
Admission for ''The Nutcracker'' is $~.00 for adults and $2.~0 for stude~s and senior citizens. Tickets are a-y~lable at the Centry Center box office or by calling 284-4111. Special group rates for adults and children can be arranged by calling 287-0743. 
''The· Nutcracker'' will be per­formed in a contemporary style that blends classical and modem·· ele­ments. Traditional pointe work is mixed with styles whtch have devel­oped since the ballet was first performed in 1892. 


The Observer Friday, December 7, 1979 -page 14 
' 
More employers seeking liberal art 
•
tna)ors 
Phoenox 
. 
' 
THE WHO QUADRAPHENIA 
/. 
THE WHO QUADRAPHENIA SOUNDTRACK 
oflVDOR 1398SERIES 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

by janet Rigaux Senior StaffReporter 
Twelve percent of the em­
ployers coming to campus this 
year are interviewing liberai 
arts majors which is about five 
to ten percent increase over last 
year, according to Richard 
.Willemin, director of the Notre 
Dame placement bureau. 
"More companies than ever 
before are looking for students 
with an arts and letter degree,'' 
Willemin said. 
There are several reasons for the increase, the main one being that employers are rea­lizing the value of a liberal arts major. Students with a liberal arrs background are well­trained in writing and speaking skills, analysis abilities, and are very adaptable, explained Willemin. Since the job market is so competitive, Willemin urges arts and letters majors to add some technical skills to their degree. 
''Liberal art students with a few business courses have an edge over those with no techni­cal training whatsoever. Even if these skills are obtained through summer employment that can be enoue:h to land them a job," Willemin added. several lectures, panel discus­
Another reason for employers' sions, and individual cvun­increased interest in the liberal seling accessible to arts and art major is that the placement letter majors throughout the hureau is making CJ conscious year sponsored by the place­fffort to get more entployers to ment bureau. recruit ans .._nd letter types. Even though more and more ''We are trying hard w promote companies are employing liber­our arts and letters maJors and al arts majors, the fact remains getting more companies inte­that many more hire business rested in them," Willemin said. and engineering graduates. 
Early in October, the place­"By far it's the business and ment bureau sponsored a engineering majors that com­career day specifically for arts panies want to hire,'' according and letters majors. This gave to Jean Shell, a staff worker for these students a chance to the placement bureau. explore what kinds of job Willemin blamed this trend on options are available for them. the economy. "Businesses are 
The two major industries open becoming more and more spe­to arts and lettet majors and cialized and so need people business and communications. trained like thatt. Schools And the major areas of business everywhere are having more available for any liberal art trouble placing their liberal arts major are advertising, pur­major than their engineering or chasing, and management or business one. It is not just a administration, according to the problem at Notre Dame, Bureau of Labor Statistics. Willemin emphasized. 
Because many businesses Neither newspapers or pub­need liberal art majors, the lishing compar•ies r-.cruit at placement bureau formed a Notre Dame. ''They go to the business society strictly for arts major journalism schools li~e andlettersmajors. According to Northwestern. Notre Dame ts Willemin, this is another way to not known for its journalism,'' make arts and letters majors Willemin said. aware of the job opportunities' ,. The placement bureau also open to them. There are also aids students applying for grad­uate schools. Many graduate schools send representatives to the placement bureau to give informational interviews to m­terested students, Willemin noted. 
University schedules final exams 
Final examinations for the Fall Semester, 1979-80 will be held at the University from 8 a.m. Saturday, December 15, through 6:15 p.m. Thursday, December 20. Friday, Decem­ber 14. is a study day and no examinations are scheduled; no examinations are scheduled for Sunday morning, December 16. 
In the event: • 
--that two (2) examinations are scheduled in conflict ac­cording to the published exami­nation schedule, or 
that more than two (2) examinations are scheduled on the same day or more than three (3) examinations are scheduled in a 24-hour period, or 
--that an emergency absence or illness makes it impossible to attend an ex·amination when scheduled, 
please contact the Office of ~h.e Registrar, ~o?m 21 ~ Admlm· stration Buddmg, pnor to the start of the examination so that you may be assisted in making the necessary arrangements. 
Christmas Pottery Sale 


Dec 10-11-12 
9-4 
O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Waiters/ •wattresses  
Shifts available 3pm-llpm llpm-7am e enjoy top pay efree insurance epaid vacations eprofit sharing  
full or part time positions available apply in person at Denny's 52626 US 31 N equal opportunity employer  


a 
a a ....~.a----~-~--~--~ 
The Observer Friday, December 7, 1979 -page 1')' 
MON. thru THURS. 8 AM TO I 0 PM FRI. and SAT. 8 AM TO 11 PM 
• 200 NO. MAIN • 
ROSELAND • 1621 SOUTH BEND AVE. ELKHART 
272-2522 SOUTH BEND (BEHIND THE i.INEBACKER) 674-6657 
233..4608 
OLD MILWAUKEE 

99
99 
24112-0Z. 
24112-0Z. CANS 
Stttgrn.m~ 1Crown 
Where quality drinks begin. 

~~at 
In the Purple Sack. 
-
99 
~ 
750 ML (~ QUART 

'--------' , ~ ,_; .-,® it leaves you breathless 
PABST BLUE RIBBON --------24112-0Z. CAIS 15.79 

FOR THAT HOLIDAY GET.TOGETHER 
I .. 
WE HONOR VISA & MASTERCHARGE 
PRICES GOOD THRU MONDAY, DEC. 10, 1979 
• 
------"-------• -~~ ---·-------"" 
r 
l 
1 
l. 
J 
i 
J 
' 

'c' 
a 
........................... 
The Observer Friday, December 7, 1979 -page 16 

At Walsh, Flanner 
: '. Alumni Board meets students 
BASEMENT, NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL LEGAL l'\10 & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION ROOM 8·12 283·7795 
11am· 2pm (M· f) other times by appointment 
WE HANDLr ALL I:INANCIALLY QUALIFIED STUDE:NTS & STAFF 
Speaking of Sports FREE PIZZA 
Join Paul Stauder and Frank LaGrotta every Sunday night for your chance to win a free Noble Roman's pizza. Speakin~ of Sports is brought to you by The Sound Room and Noble Roman's. 
Sunday Night 9 pm AM 64 

& . 
HONEVfREE 
SAT., DEC. 8th -8pm 
STEPAN CENTER, NOTRE DAME 
Advance Tickets $5 -At the Door $6 Student Union Ticket Office 
Student Union Concerts Presents An Evening With 
HARRY 
CHAPIN 
A Benefit Concert for the World Hunger Year Friday Dec. 7 · 8 P·M· Notre Dame ACC 
by Mary Fran CaiZ1l1an Staff Reporter 
On Thursday, ] anuary 17, at 
7:30 p.m., students will have the opportunity to meet with members of the University A­lumhi Board in W aJsh and Flanner Halls. The Hall Presi­dents' CounLil is publicizing the meeting in order to generate a large student turnout. 
Madeline Darrouzet, Presi­dent of F arJey Hall noted that, ''Alumni have quite a bit of influence in the University's affairs. They do presentpropo­sals," she commented. The HPC hopes that students will yoice their opinions on campus 1ssues and policies, air their g~ipes, and question the alum­
ni. , 
According to Maureen Mur­phy, project chairperson, the thirteen-member board enjoys meeting the students. ''The 
• • • Crisis 
[continued from page J) 
country, and Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi -for whom 50 Americans are being held host­age in Tehran -should be turned over to Iran or to a world court. 
"One of the problems of this country is that people can't see in perspective," he said, ex­plaining he meant that Ameri­cans cannot seem to grasp the Iranian viewpoint that sees the shah as il. cnminal. 
Dr. Masashi Kawasaki, a Dal­las physician, was sent to a Canadian relocation camp at Slocan, British Columbia, when he was 14. Four years later, in 1946, he left. 
He described his experience in the camp as "rough," but said he's not bitter. 
"In one sense, the Iranian situation is due to the fact that if it weren't for the hostages, they wouldn't be doing it. In this case, it was a war situ­ation," he said. 
Kawasaki attributes both the Japanese and Iranian situations to a peculiarly Am~rican . e­sponse to international events. 
''It's no different than 'I, myself, first.' We see it every day. This is the way we are, unfortunately,'' Kawasaki said. 
"We get afraid, and then we get jealous. I ·think there was fear of these people, then and now. " 
As for Iranian students here, 
''you should allow them to stay 
here,'' he said. 
Sam Yanagisawa, now presi­dent of the Dallas-based Yard semiconductors company, spent six months at an as­sembly center for Japanese then at the Topaz, Utah, reloca­tion camp when he was 20. 
students learned quite a bit by talking to the alumni last year, and the alumni enjoy the chance to rap with the stu­dents," Murphy explained. HPC considers the meeting to be an excellent opportunity for students to discuss their views with an influential governing body. 
Members of the alumni board meet only three times annually, and its agenda is always packed with events. ''This is the one time that alumni have free time scheduled to listen to and meet with the students,'' Murphy sC:tid. The HPC will publicize the meeting in all the dorms. Murphy added that refresh­ments will be served at the meetings. 
The thirteen-rrember commit· tee will be dJ.vided between Walsh and Flanner Halls as a matter of convenience for north and south quad residents. Rq~emary,, Abowd, who is in­volved wtth the project, ex­plained that in the past the alumni spoke in individual dorms. The new approach is an effort to concentrate the speak­ers to encourage larger audi­ences. 
A basketball game coupled with a winter storm resulted in a lower than expected turnout for last year's meetings. How­ever, HPC hopes the publicity campaign will encourage more students to attend. 
''These alumni are illustrious members of their respective communities and really want to help the students," Murphy concluded. 
Pianist performs 
on Sunday 
Pianist Robert Hamilton will return to the Michiana .area to join Dr. Michael Esselstrom and Elkhart Symphony Orches­tra at 3:30p.m. Sunday, Dec. 9, at Concord Performing Arts Center. He will perform Proko­fiev's "Piano Concerto #1." 
Hamilton is a native of South Bend, and was associate profes­sor and pianist in residence at IUSB until 1975. He graduated summa cum laude from IU Bloomington and holds a Mas­ter of Musi.c de~ree . in piano from Cathohc Uruversuy. 
Ticket prices for the concert are $4 for adult and $3 for students and senior citizens. Special rates for groups of 20 or more are available. For more information, call the Symphony office at 293-1087. 
Comedian Steve Martin visits 'Nowhere City ' 
TER~E HAUTE, IND. (AP)­
Comedian Steve Martin, that 
wild and crazy guy, has agreed 
to come for a visit to the 
western Indiana city he pro­
claimed the most nowhere place 
in America. · 
Vicki Weger, an aide to Mayor Willian Brighton, said Martin will arrive today at Hulman Field, where he will be greeted with a bouquet of wilted flowers. 
"They'll probably be forget­me-;1ots," she said. "Maybe a few snapdragons. We're hav­ing the flowers flown in." 
Weger said Martin will make some remarks at the airport before driving into town. 
"We are not encouraging the public to show up at the airport. 
But we're going to have the official welcoming on the city hall steps, where the public will be welcome," she sa1d. 
Martin will be taken into town in a 1957 Chevy that he can rent for $7 a day with unlimited mileage," she said. 
"The driver's door doesn't open, but he can get in the other side," Weger added. 
The next stop is the Shuffle Inn, where a chef imported from Maxim's of Paris will 
Going to the 
Tickets $6.50 and 5.50 
LEffiANS FORmAL? 
.I • 
on sale at the ACC Box Office 
Have dinner with us.
9 am. to 5 p.m. 
Show your tickets, and the first 
also at the usual ACC ticket outlets 
round of dtlnks Is on the house 
and River Oty Records Stores in 
The Ice House 100 Centet Complex mishawaka
South Bend and 
(1 drink pet petaon ftee)
c I I ·-----­
prepare a luncheon of lobster 
and  other assorted  treats  for  
Martin and the mayor.  
"Playboy is picking  up  the  

tab for that," Weger said. ''The Lunch will be served by bunnies.'' After lunch, Martin will go to city hall where he will get a key to the city he put on the map after his interview in the J anu­ary issue of Playboy. 
From there, it's over to CF Industri~s. the local fertilizer plant. Then, when Martin heads back south into town from U.S. 41, Weger said he will be "railroaded," otherwise known as being stuck in traffic until the train goes by. 
"We have 350 railroad cros­sings in Terre Haute, so there's always a pretty good chance you'll get stopped by a train," she explained. 
At Jones and Beezy Tractor sales, Martin will get a $20 gift certificate will be waiting for the comic at Smiley's Jiffy Car Wash. On the way back to the airport, he'll be given a bucket of chicken from the Colonel. 
"He was going to stay the night originally, but we figured three hours would do it," Weger said. "He can see the whole town." 
Detroit bus has room. 
Sign-ups are still available for the Christmas bus to Detroit, which will leave the main circle on Dec. 20 at 12:45 p.m. 
Round trip cost is only $20 and the bus will return to Notre Dame on Monday, Jan. 14th. Call Mary at 288-5465 or Don at 277-4327 for reservations. 


. -.... ~ ~ ..... ·-· ........ ----..,....--____________________..._-----·------_._ ··------------........... ---... -. -·-....~ ' -----·---------------.
-
The Observer -Sports 
Friday, Dec~ber 7, 1979 -page 17 
Sports Briefs__ 
Phelps highlights UCLA rally 
Jhede wil! be a pep rally for the UCLA basketball game on . on ay n.tght ar 7:30 P·ll_l· in the ACC pit. Guests will u~clhu~e Dtsger Phelps, Rtch Branning, Bill Hanzlik, theFtg ung Insh band and cheerleaders. 
Belles compete in weekend tourneys 
The Saint Mary's .basketball team will compete at the Roundball Classtc rhts weekend under the direction of coach ) e~ry Ballessio. The BeHes (1-2) wiil face Franklin College on Fn~ay ar Goshen with the tip-off at 8:00 p.m. 
Samt Mary's sw.m team, under the direction of Steve Smi~h! wi.ll a!so b<: busy this weekend. The Belles will be partlci_{>atlng m a tn-meet with DePauw University and Notre Dame m the Rock on Saturday at 10:00 a.m. 
Interhall equipment return deadline 
The final equipment return for interhall football will be on the evening of ~ednesday December 12. Any equipment returned afte~ this date will be charged a late fee. Fees will be added to bills sent home for next semester. Exact time for the return will be announced later. 
leers stand at 8-5 in midseason 
by Brian Beglane Sports Wn'ter 
With half its Western Collegi­ate Hockey Association sche­dule behind it, the Notre Dame hockey team finishes up the first half of its regular season slate this weekend against Cen­tral Collegiate Hockey Associa­tion opponents Bowling Green and Western Michigan. 
The Irish will face off against Bowling Green Friday night at 
the  BGSU  Ice  Arena  at  7:30  
EST.  Notre  Dame  then  will  
return  to  the  Athletic  and  
Convocation  Center  to  host  

Western Michigan Sunday af­ternoon at 3:00 EST. 
The Irish completed the first half of their WCHA schedule la~t wee:kend with a split at Wtsconsm. The Badgers won the first night )-2, but Notre Dame came back Saturday for a 4-3 victory. The split puts Notre Dame's overall record at 8-5 and its league mark ar 5-5. f"he Irish are tied for fifth place tn the WCHA with Wisconsin and Colorado College. 
"You're never happy when 
• • . Prices· 
lp 
(continued from page 1] 
finished goods -level, when goods are-ready for sale to the final user; -the intermediate level, where they have received· some processing; and the crude level,-where goods have not yet received any processing. 
The Producer Price Index for finished goods stood in Novem­ber at 225.9, meaning that goods priced at $100 in 1967 had risen to $225.90 last month. 
Prices of tinished goods other than food rose o.8 percent in November, down from a 1.4 percent increase in October. Prices of intermediate goods rose 0.9 percent, one-half the October increase of 1.8 percent, and prices of crude goods rose 2 percent, up from the October rise of 1. 5 percent. 
Price changes at the wholesale level usually show up at the retail level in a month or two. 
Retail prices increased at a 13 percent annual rate during the first 10 months of the year, the fastest rate since 1946 when the government lifted World War II price controls. 
you lose one," said Notre Dame 
coach Lefty Smith. "But when 
you consider the misfortune we 
faced we've got to be pleased 
with our performance Saturday. 
''I guess you could say we have limped through the first half of the season with all the Injuries and troubles we have had. Bur the team has shown a lot of character in overcoming all those obstacles. To have faced_ al~ that,adversity and still rematn In contention with a 5-5 league record says a lot for our club.'' 
Bur before Smith can think too nmch about any more WCHA play, he and his players must concentrate on their upcoming games against Bowling Green and Western Michigan. 
'.'Although both these games wtll be norJ·conference ones,'' notes Smith, "they are still going to be great challenges. Bowling Green always is one of the powers in the CCHA, and look at the trouble Western Michigan gave Michigan two weeks ago. To say the least, we are going to have our hands full both games.'' 
'' 

ND wom.en renew Michigan rivalry 
by Mark Hannuksela Sports Writer 
Long before any of uswere ever born, the University of Notre Dame and the University of Michi~an got together on an athleuc field somewhere and a
. ,
nvalry was born. On Saturday 
that rivalry will be renewed by ~ 
cast of characters whose names 
are not too well known around these campuses, when the Wolverines invade the ACC for a women's basketball contest ":'ith ~he Fighting Irish. Game ume IS set for 2:00 p.m. For those people who are not regular followers of women's basketball, this is just another 
game.  But,  for  head  coach  
Sharon Petro,  assistant  coach  
Bob  Scott,  and  their  team,  

tomorrow's game stops .just short of beins their se.as9n.. 
"Michigan ts home for me," stated Petro before Thursday's practice session. "I live there, I used to work there, and I have coached there (along with Sat­urday's opposing mentor, Gloria Soluk of Michigan). It would be very nice to go home for the Christmas holidays and be able to say that I beat Michigan. 
Petro then continued, ''we'-ve got a lot of incentive to beaf them, especially after what they did to us last year (the Wolves set a record for most points ever scored by an opponent in thrashing the Irish 93-66 at Crisler Arena). We've also got nothing to lose. Michigan, being a Division I school, would lo?~ bgd by losing to us, a Division II team. I think that we can do the job, and I'm anxious to show them and everyone else that we can. 
"Saturday's game is going to answer a very big question for us," said Petro, "and that is 'Are we good enough to stay with a ream of that caliber?' If we are, then this might be a turning point for us, and a key to the rest of our season." 
In last }ear's contest, Mich­igan outmatched the. Irish at Venhuizen, and Penny Neer combined to score 40 points in 
(IJ.I511d"'
\.... ams!) 
"Talk It. up presents : 
Ul
Fr. Hesbllrgll{\ 
Monday, December 10 8 pm Call in 6400 or 7425 

an opening loss to Miami of Ohio, and all three played against the Irish in last year's meeting. 
every position in terms of size. This year will be a different story. Petro added size to an 
already quick team, and will be giving away little in terms of height. 
Tne Irish assistant coach Bob Scott pointed to one area which would provide the key to the game. 
"The game will be won in that category which appears in the stat sheets under the heading of "REB." If we out rebound them, we win. And in this game, the biggest since way back in 1977 when the first women's basketball game was e~er played at Notre Dame (the Insh beat Valpo 48-41), a win would mean that women's basketball at Notre Dame has trt;tly come of age. Basically, 
this game means a lot.'' 

I 
t 
,· 
• 
-... 
Notre Dame Karate Championships 
Sunday, Dec. 9 in Stepan C~nter Eliminations start at 12 pm 
Forms(~ Free Sparring, Team Competitions ··:"'~­
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Tae Kwon De/Karate Club 
NATURAL FOODS RESTAURANT On Riverbend Plaza 
.Soda Four-ain, Juice Bar303 SOUTH MICHIGAN ST. 
Carry-Out MenuSouth Bend, In. 46601 Full Service DiningPhcne 288-1911 

Student Special
,-------.,
1$100 OFF I
I any dinner after 5 pm I 
I Offer good with**** I 
L 
Coupon and Student ID 1
-------· 
Open: Mon. thru Thurs. 10 am-8 pm Fri. and Sat. 10 am -9 pm 
Tt flee~ o6 Sabel lf{alay'6 &Mtme 1>attte 
~ we blvil&-!fl'tt • waldc Doctor Doolittle and The Roadrunner 
uilk§MW 
Sunday: -December 9 1:30 
Carroll Haii-SMC 


-
-·--··-....-..... -­
•.
:••·-·-···· .. ·-·--···-·­

'I 
~· TJ: Observer -Sports Friday, December 7, 1979 : page 18 
), 
) 
;j 
\ 

·~·" 
ANCAKEHOUS FaMi!g Rufou11atd 


(0m gpreioQty 
COven -CBa~d (.)\ppQe cponcokeg 

Our Specialty using fresh sliced apples topped with a sugar ~namon glaze never surpassed! 
U.S. 31(Dixlewayj North in Roseland (Across from Holiday Inn) 272-74..~ 
Sun.· Thurs. 6A.M.to 9P.M. Fri. & Sat. 6A.M. to 10 P.M.
• 
t 


·MUSIC BY THE NOTRE DAME ORCHESTRA 
STUDENT ADMISSION: $2.50 
Adults $5.00. Senior Citizens $2. 50. 
Tomorrow 2:00 and 7:00pm Morris Civic Auditorium Downtown South Bend 
Prt;sent this adto receive a 50 cent discount on regular h'cket pnces. 
A perfect Christmas gift idea!! 
Title IX: leap backwards for athletics 
APPLAUSE, APPL\USE: Women's sports are finally gmng to get some much needed funds. Well, you'll get 1~0 ovation, standing or otherwise, from me. HEW's ruling on that infamous segment of the Education Act of 1972 known as Title IX won't do a whole lot for women's sports, but it will for the men's -it'll create a whole lot of havoc. 
Patricia Harris, secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, announced her department's interpretation of Title IX on Tuesday after seven years of debate. The Harris version is a modification of the one her predecessor, Joseph Califano, rejected. The new act requires all schools that appropriate scholarships for athele­tics proportionately divide those scholarships on the basts of sex. 
Notre Dame has approximately a 6-1 ratio of male scholarship atheletes to female atheletes. The women atheletes are now eligible for 2i scholarships with that ratio Where it 1s that those scholarships will come from is not known At present all the scholarships available are distributed among the male atheletes, and no funds remain. It is improbable that an influx of alumni contributions will finance the additio­nal money for scholarships. What alumnus, especially one who toiled on the gridiron, wants his donation s.iven to women's field hockey? Not many, I'm wtlling to bet. 
One proposed solution is to cut the number of scholarshtps for men, but from what sport? The football team presently operates with 95 scholarships. This year 22 of these players were sidelined for most of the season, and with other team members out for just one or two games, the Irish survived with about 70 players. A squad can not expect to make it through the season with less than 60 members -can you slice 10 scholarships here, leaving no buffer? I don't think so. 
What would Digger's team do without that famous bench strength to back them up? Make it to the final four again? Very doubtful. 
Cutting back on the basketball and football scholarships wdl hamper the quality of atheletes who would play for the Irish. The entire program of the two sports, which have been cultivated for numerous years at Notre Dame, will falter. Without quality teams, how can the university hope to draw capacity crowds? Even with the loyal fans the Irish have, revenues would fall. If they do, all sports at Notre Dame will suffer. Basketball and football account for the majority of all the funds available to arheletics: not only women's sports, but men's minor sports. 
What about those mens sports, like soccer, hockey, baseball, fencing, and wrestling? Soc­cer and hockey are currently in a transitional stage, developing from m'inor spons into 
Beth 
Ht1ffman 

trois 20 scholarships and has quickly become the number-three interest sport at Notre Dame. Soccer has developed on its own, without the aid of any scholarships, and is the major contender for the fourth revenue sport. These two groups are quickly becoming self-supporting and de­serve to retain all that they have earnrrl 
The university is forced to stabilize the gap between the number of male and female atheleres, and it has an abundance of courses to follow. The women's swimming, volleyball, and track clubs may never have a chance to achieve varsity status. Merely by denying any more women· s teams the ability to achieve varsity ranking and by elevating a men's sport, the university could increase the ration of men to womeH, reducing the number of scholarships available to women. 
The Title IX verdict is faulty in many respects, but the failure to provide for the funding of better facilities for women headline the list. Few top women atheletes will be attracted to Notre Dame, regardless of any scholarships, if the present program is not upgraded. The Irish face teams with mediocre degrees of talent -even some with high-school level programs. Will the nation's best atheletes elect to compete for a spot at Notre Dame, or will they take similar scholarships at already established programs like Ohio State, Old Dominion, or UCLA? It will be a long time before Notre Dame sees a woman with the caliber ofa Nancy Lieberman or an Ann Meyers. -· 
After a gradual upgrading of the women's 
athletic programs at Notre Dame, an effort can then be made to attract high quality talent. Each year college freshmen are entering college with more finesse, sharpened skills, well-rounded fundamentals and knowledge of the game than the previous class. Women today are being indoctrinated into atheletics earher. Once a respected program is established, one that Notre Dame is capable of constructing, then and only then will these super atheletes consider a career at Notre Dame. This cannot happen overnight. The reputation of Irish atheletics was enhanced only after decades of excelling performances, not in a mere six years. 
The notion of aiding women's sports is, of course, to be commended. But this effort should not coincide with the downfall of established men's programs. It is totally unfair to deprive men of the present position they have nurtured 
possible revenue-producing sports. iiHjiociiiikiey-c11on._-llliiiaiiniidllieiiariiniieidil.---------·----.. 
By one of our faculty!! 
KISS SLEEPING BEAUTY GOOD-BYE Breaking the Spell of Feminine Myths and Models MADONNA KOLBENSCHLAG 
Tt 1S book offers a refreshingly different slant on Women's Liberation. Be ·Jinning with fairy tales, where most of us began our education, the author uncovers the stereotyped role models these stories offer women and shows how their spell can be broken. Through a sophisticated syn­the~is of literary, psychological, and theological insights, this book chal­lenges women to grow to their full human and Christian stature as self­confident individuals, able to give and receive love to establish a mature relationship with God. 
M. C. Kolbenschlag teaches American Studies at Notre Dame University. As m active member of a religious order, she also works extensively wtth groups devoted to women's spirituality. 
Available at TilE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORd 
STUDY TRANSPORTATION AT PRINCETON 
MSE, MP A, MUP and Ph.D. Degrees. All Admitted Students Reeebe Financial Aiel· Fellowships or Reseuch Assistantships aptoS 11,400 per Year. 

!!'.:!'}.'.!~-~~ f!'!!~!.!!.~.!!!!l.!. 
ClTil incineeriJII • Urban Plannilll • Public Atraln • Soclolo&y Compute:' Science • Statistics • Mechanical E111ineerlq • Eneqy Operations Research • Economics • Envll'onmental Studies • Arehiteetare 
Write to : Professor Alain L. Kornhauser Director, Traasportatlon Program Princeton Uninrsity, Princeton, NJ 085<C4 
Or call : 609-451-4657 

Special Holy Day Mass 
~~lf:::; FEAST OF IMMACULATE CONCEPTION 
5:00 pm Friday, Dec. 7 Sacred Heart Church 
THERE WILL ALSO BE A SPECIAL HOLY DAY MASS AT SACRED HEART CHURCH ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8 AT 11:30. 
Check hal buletin boards for times of Masses in dorms. 
i \ 
-
-


The Observer Friday, December 7, 1979 -page 19 
........ ·-·-···· ~--··---~-::---------------------~------·--·---· ---------··.-·-·-···· •••.•-·--............. -~ ·---.. ' ·····-----··-----------­
~.:i 
.lf 
1 ·'-' ,.~ 
Students start fund for Evans 
A collection is now being taken for the Joseph Evans Memorial Fund, in memory of the late Notre Dame professor. Evans passed away late August this year. The collection, under university approval, is being undertaken by students to raise money for a plaque w be erected to Evan's memory. Donations may be mailed to "Joseph Evans Memorial Fund," Box 443, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Questions may be directed to Barb Budde or to Tom Hamel at 1420/7672. 
Molarity
, 
Michael Molinelli 






••Good Food 
••Throw your next party at GIUSEPPE'S 
-
••Party Room available in the evenings from 5 to 2. 
713 E. LaSalle Phone 233-0951 
Most South Bend 
\ 
phone users will dial 1+ 411 for local directory assistance effective December9. 
: . .r-".~ ..i.' ~:· -· .... 
...... , .~ ~~. ~': . ·.~.... ~ .~·.(.:: ­
NOTRE DAME 
&ST. MARY'S 
campus Centrex phone users will dial 
Centrex users: Be ready to give your SEVEN-DIGIT PHONE NUMBER, not your student billing number, when the operator answers. 
Indiana Bell 

OS Q .& a

' 
·­
_T_h_e_O_b-~-r-v-er----Spo--r-ts-Bo--ar-d----------------------------------~F~ri&;,:y-,~Doc::e:m~~~7?,11~9n79~-~p~~e~2~
01 
1 
--------------------~----------~· 
By. Bymes/Mc Oure 

~-­

~-.. 

.. 



Interhall 
lll' 
RAOUETBALL U-GRAD WOMEN'S CHAMPION Marth Gallagher 
U-GRAD MEN'S TOURNAMENT Seeding 
1. 
Onufer 

2. 
Gallagher 

3. 
Schaeffer 

4. 
Lorenzini 

5. 
Wegener 

6. 
Dedace 

7. 
Young 

8. 
Esprig 


FINALS Young vs. Onufer (1109) Esprig (3235) vs. Lorenzini (1623) Dedace (3092) vs. Gallagher Wegener (277-0333) vs. Schaeffer (6934 
Tennis Championship 




• 

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.• two days prior to the isa~e in which the ad is run. Tilt Ollllrwr office will accept classifieds Monday throuqh Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 

ATTENTIONKevin-
TEST ANXIETY MONSTER ESCAPES M.B.O.B. SENIOR
Anybody that can put up witt' me for a
Selling round trip airline ticket to AND RUNS WILD ON SMC/ND 
How was the "Hairess"? CHEG'S
whole semester and would want to for
Newark, NJ call Dennis/8921. CAMPUSES!
another is one heck of a patient person. 
T.A.-ING YOUR
Thanks for everything and good luck with
Two tickets for Harry Chapin. Call Ed at Kathleen Marie. Dr. C. Dineen, CLASSES WAS TRULY
finals.
289-9697. Tim Hope you have a Grand Old 19th Please pass us. A PLEASURE. Birthday!! Wish I could be there to share M.F..OO P.Z. GOOD LUCK
Merry Christmas
Fci sale: student b-ball ticket. Call Jim in the celebration! ON YOUR FINALS. 141211 P.M. -12 P.M. . loveya, Marianne O'Donnell, I'M CONFIDENT
Susie, 
Have a "spirited" Christmas and
Karen YOU'll DO WELL
Merry Christmas. Love
For sale: used green reclining chair, $15. P.S. Merry Christmas 327 H.C. "lively" New Year.
Brian
Phone 272·7347. CHEERS HAPPY HOLIDAYS,
4South Regir.a
M-E, BILBO
Sue,
MUST SELL SEASON BASKETBALL You'll be 21 on the first day of finals­
Will Rudolph visit "the mistake by the
TICKET. Graduate in December. Front what more could one ask for? You shall Russell, THE SICILIAN CONNECTION says
lake" this christmas? Will the Bucks do 
row. Call John 232-0264. have ahappy, happy day! We are holding one of your fish hostage!! "Sang you bery much."
the USC what USC did to ND? Will 
Love, Kati Wait for details...about ransom ...
WMMS & M-105 keep one certain DJ 
M. and P.
For Sale: Genesis loud speakers; CAGE THAT TEST ANXIETY
from going into withdrawal because he
excellent condition. Ute time guaranty. Debber, MONSTER!!
can't play his "Faves"? Will a certain
Dave 1143. The cottage! Chamber pot. Tree lessons. Bob Golic says hello to Everyone,
cleveland hei~hts resident be taken in by Lost Valley. Humble yourself, damn , especially Ted and Goose.. Anyone interested In working on Johnvan-aerial Disease and other cornball
For sate: UTAH M-5500 Speakers -12" goat! Cat s Eye Trail. Megacide! Anderson's presidential campaign for the
Jokes? Can two certain domers find a
Woofer-tweater and Midrange -$80 for Endless Laughter. Beer and apples. Happy 20th Anne Fink Mock Convention, call larry-1049.
better piua in cleveland than in Zaland?
pair. Call Shawn (1468). Window jumping. Spider woman. -Are you Living in Sorin now? Any
(cold piua?) 
Turtle Action on the big day?
Smoking lessons! ST. LOUIS CLUB POST-GAME PARTYThe answers to these and other questions
Drive home for Christmas. 1975 Chevy · Love, -20 shots of Uncle Jack make you leave Sat. Dec. 8 after the game. All St.
will be found some where in the first your date? Tootsie sends her best but
Vega Wagon, Radio, Heater, Air, New Donna, Cal, Jeann and "Bod" louisans and guests welcome. ROTC
lands of cleveland this christmas break.
Tires. Excellent Condition, 25 MPG. you can't have him all night! lounge.
Good luck with finals.
$950.00. Call 233-5278. Happy Birthday (Dec. 12) Carol Fondest regards
Tim 
Drobinske. Mike and Tim 
Detroit Bus: lea;,es main circle Dec. 20th United half-fare coupon $40 cash or best love, P.S. Revenge is sweet. at 12:45 p.m. Sign-ups still available. offer. Call 4462. EOF.: Mom, Dad, Jim, Janet and Grams Call Mary 288-5465.
Here's your first personal. Have a very Happy 20th to 2 ladies from Elgin-­
For sale--two WHO tickets--Dec. 8-$50. Merry Christmas. Three Hand squeezes Lis, Hope this one is the best. Happy Hours OBSERVER TYPISTS: 
and I'll see you in the sun! To a good, Happy 19th Birthday! looks like the and concerts will most likely make lt.
-Fran 8168. Your work this semester was goad-­
long future... Goose will be let loose this weekend! Staying sober? let's make it better next year'
FOR SALE: HUMIDIFIERS, compact Squ!g Enjoyf love Merry Christmas and best Holidaycool vapor humidifiers by Gerber. Love Griff wishes--God bless. 6-month.guar. $13.00. Call John 3588. Madge, Hardly, Carnage, Mona, Jock· neighbor John McGrath 
Itch, Kennage, and Mel (3:30am;: An unidentified male was seer. escorting (The guy with the red hair who's always For sale: 1 student season basketball Thanks for making our first semester at M (Helayne) B a large Argentinian llama from Fischer looking over your shoulders) ticket, padded seat. Call Greg, 3662. ND the BEST. Merry Christmas-Hope to You are the sunshine of my life Hall last Saturday night. At it again, 
hear on you over break! M(Harry( R Bruno? OBSERVER PRODUCTION STAFF: Like new-· 4 shelf bookcase·· dark wood luv ya Luv Ya, Thanx for working as hard as you have tone (press board). $15.00. Call 7062 Coon Dog and Amelia Limited 112 fare coupon $40 cash or best little Goose, for me so far--The paper's been looking
offEr. Call 234-3277. I'm up for amatch whenever you are. My
Theresa. much better (Thanx to you). But you ain't 
table or yours? 
seen nothin' yet--wait till next semester-­

Umited 112 fare coupon $40 cash or best offer. Call 234-3277. 
''Guess I'll go to Colorado where the pace of life Is slow.... " We walt your arrival with simple survival and one day we'll all understand. Good luck Rich-We'll miss you. 
The Elite 
Attention: Girls. Sunday is Steve O'Neil's Birthday. Cal! the Super Stud at 1062 and wish him a Happy Birthday. 
Scott Glazer, Did you say you wanted multiple rape, massages. and kisses for yo11r birthday? 
Happy Birthday,. Your Weekend Roomie 
Bernie and Jackie, To apair of doubly fun friends, we wish a double Happy Birthday! 
Love, Jean Marie and Mary 
MJN, Hey, it's been three months. I couldn't have made it without you. Thanks, 
TAH 
Alias Mary Ann from Regina, 
We didn't take the mirrors.  Check Carol  
in 114.  
Big Red 4  

Mitch, 
Have a Happy Birthday December 16th. Your "Domer" friend 
Monique. . . Snowballs, baseball managers, pineapple and shuttle buses? ; · 
Patrick, May Santa be as "good" to you as you have been to me. 
Merry Christmas! Love M.B. 
To S.A.c, "Was", Pudding, Monique, Lolita and Jean, Merry Mistletoeing. 
Lov.e. "OB'' 
I ; ~ : 
Jean, How did your rose get in the bed Sat.· night? 
To Pat, "the Tennessee Terror" and instigator of the 4 South vandal warfare. Are you really kind enough to be anurse? 
100 k~gger at C. Cleary and M. Ke~\ Sat. mght. R.S.V.P. . · 
M.A. O'DOI1nell 
.. , ' 
Jackie, i .· · Meet you at the Blue Mood Room!, 
1 
Jackson 
Loretta. You've got a package! You can believe us! 
Hey 4th Floor Walsh, Great party last Saturday. A Friend 
To Laura H. 123 Walsh, You wrote the "Dear John" in "IN THROUGH THE OUT DOOR" Under­stand? Reply. 
RED ZEPPELIN Steve 
we'll shake down the thunder!'' 
Special Thanx and Best Holiday wishes NO TEAM should have an easy time to Rod, Ann, Pam, M.A.K., Jim, andplaying before our STUDENT BODY. Trish--Congratulations on a job well 
This is Notre Dame. 
dO!lP!!
Section 106, ACC John McGrath 
Let's help blow out every unranked team Anyone interested in taking a charteredthat comes to the ACC-preferably in the bus to the Warren, Youngstown, OH. 
first half. 
area for Xmas break, call Mark 1870 orSection 106, ACC Carl 6726 by Dec. 10. 
To the "Senior Aluml" 
Mike Hogan,Get the HELL up! 
Merry Christmas to my 10! 850 miles
Section 106, ACC 
won't stop me from thinking about you. Aileen 
Boom Boom! Out go the lights Section 106, ACC 
Merry Christmas to all our friends-­Your Four Farley Foxes 
Are Notre Dame students really the best fans in the country? 
P.S. Cookie, fudge, and green M&MSection 106, ACC 
party--Jan. 15. 
Section 1061S NOTRE DAME. 
President Carter. Fr. Hesburgh, PopeSection 106, ACC 
Johnny Paul, and other noted friends: Sorry I won't be able to see each of youAttention Long Islanders--You can pick 
personally over the holidays, (floodup your Long Island Club T-Shirts at 501 cleanup is continuing in Johnstown) but Flanner Hall. 
let me wish you my best! (Sorry Ayatolla--since you've been The new Janie Byrne V. P. Committee such ajerk this year, I'm not sending youplans to run as a new face at mock any cards so take that$)convention. Details next semester.-a 
Panama Red 
politician's promise. 
. Happy Birthday to an Elgin Twosome Jack1e M. . It makes my day just seein' 'um Reme~ber Chnstmas Ma?s at the Heart? 1am certainly fond 
H.aven t seen you much smce Cheerlead-O.Whls German and Blonde 
ing days. Maybe we can get togetherv"h t ""\WhH Cherish the day Imet them again sometime. Merry XMAS. ------------­
THE 'Renegade' Deacon Tim 
NEED MONEY FOR CHRISTMAS? Here's to Silve Lake on New Years! Undergraduates wanted for two short· Merry Christmas term research projects. Both tasks deal Teen 
with assessing student opinions. 
Anybody with enough fortitude to read
Involves 21/2 hours works and can be 
through all the personals to find this onecompleted in JUST ONE DAY. Also can deserves to have a truely fabulousbe arranged to fit your schedule. Pay Christmas. May Santa suffe lromtotals $10.60. 
senility and give you more than you
Contact Bob at ext.3886 or m-3903 for deserve.
scheduling. 
Merry Christmas Ryan "No-Doz" Ver Rerkmoes Dear Patti, PS. Have ahappy New year even without ILYMB'!' Guy Lombardo. Mike 
To Sue, Suave, Mara, Diana. Diane. THE SICILIAN CONNECTION thanka Mary, 5th floor McCandless, and Goose you fora you support. Little: 
You are the cream of the crop at SIJIC. All Observer employees: Have amerry Christmas and good II.Jo,;k on Paychecks will be available In The finals. Observer office an Dec. 11, 4:15-5:00 Steve 
p.m. and Dec. 12, 2:15-4:30 pm. J.Radd Regine, Merry Christmas Attention Observer Staff: Hope to see more of you next semester in 
There are many "old'' Observer checks government. which have not been picked up. All these Steve checks will be voided by Friday at 4:30 pm. NO EXCEPTIONS! All you have to Bob, do is ask Ceil. Hope your holiday season is filled with 
The Management the warmth and good cheer of family and 
friends. you'll be apart of my Christmas CAGE THE TEST ANXIETY MONSTER1 fal'ltasies' Scared about taking finals? Do you freeze Deb before taking your tests? On Saturday, PS Try not to overdose on eggnog and December 8th, from 1:00-4:00 in the SMC Mathis. Clubhouse, Mary Theis from the 
· Counseling and Career Development ATTENTION: Sal Center will help you learn to relax and All I want for Xmas is a home cooked take those tests more eJsily!!! Bring meal. a oottle of wine, acrackling fire and blankets and pillows for comfort and sign you .. up in the CC DC by ihursday. Come on Have avery Merry Xmas! See ya in ·so. Saturday. and let's cage that TEST "Good??" Kid ANXIETY MONSTER!!! PS. Dig up some mistletoe!! 
For sale--'72 Nova VB, P.S., P.B. AIC, New tires. Engine in excellent condition. $1050 or B.O. Mike 13770. 
For Sale: -13 Watt/channel Technics receiver $80! Call Scoop at 1n1. 
For sale--American Airlines 50 percent coupon good through Dec. 15. Best offer. Ph. 255-2223. 
Tickets 
Desperado: Badly need 2 KY 8-ball tlx. Pay $. Call 277-5779. 
Bleacher season basketball package. For sale. Best offer. 6789. 
Student basketball tix available. Call 234-0467. 
PersonaJ~ 
To all the AO's: Merry Christmas and Happy New Year! Lono live chalets in Austria, islands in Greecr, aud any where else that brings back (',UNDEF Xmas memories! 
Toujours folie, The Equestrienne 
Kati, Ann and Lisa In memory of our beloved Mamoosa · Buns, I wish you a Merry Christmas and a "wacko" New Year' 
Love, Patty 
Mikey, Bruns, Curley, Nags, Chief, Sully, Pete, Hollywood, Stu, and every­one else in section rejection: Merry Christmas and Happy New Year and remember, you'll never be denied by Santa (or me)! 
Love, one out of Ninety 
Micheal, How can I say Thank You? You're everything to me-l love you' 
No Name 
Nitz, Les, MJ, Peg and Lynn, and everyone Tis the season to be jolly. So, drink and be Merry! I wish you all the special joy that only Christmas brings. 
Love, Cathy PS. Thanks for all the memories. It was a great semester and I'll miss you guys a lot. 
Tom, Matt, Kevin, Brian, Tim, Barry, & 
Bos: Merry Christmas and Happy New Year from your SMC groupie. Don't forget to put up your snow flakes. Anybody up for skating during finals? 
Love, Horse 
Dusty,Lisa, Nancy, Char, Megan, Tim, Nick. Bill, Paul, Scoop and all the guys of 9-D. Ellen, John M. Mark P. and all Observer People, the entire SMC staff, pam. Terri, Susie, Melanie and all good and dear friends, Merry Christmas Every One! 
Love, Margie 
To Claudine Gilarski, Kathy Kabot and ail my friends in Anger: Joyeus Noel! 
Love, Cathy D. PS I'll be seeing you soon-1 hope 
Have agreat Christmas and watch out for the sniffles. Your T A in Zen 
Seasons Greetings Grapelet: Do you realize this is your last personal for the seventies? Profound isn't it. Best of Christmases. 
love Bob 
Ajoyous Noel to all of you (old friends and new acquaintances) who helped me get thru this semester: Ryan, Margie, Mary C., Sue G., Rosie, Terri, Ellen and Colleen, Eileen, Michele, Cindy K.• Renee, Andrea, Cyd, Betsy, Mara, Rob, WSND, and Logan Center. Keep up the good work next semester! 
Neil 
Dear Frank Have a Merry Christmas! Thanks for all the good times we've shared. Look Forward to sharing them again in the New Year. 
Love, Margie 
Ann C., I Want you. I need you. I love you. 
Pooh Bear 
Les, 
Living in the room with you, I have found it especially true that you have been the greatest friend that anyone could ever send. This past semester has been gfeaf--you've been a wonderful roommate. So keep those feathers on the wall 'cause I'll be back sometime next fall. But while I'm in Rome, you'll still be here in thought and love throughout the year. 
Merry Christmas and Happy New Year from a friend who holds you dear. Cathy 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANNE FINK!!!!!!!!! 
Caroline, OK, I'm OBNOXIOUS! So what? Dave P.S. Happy 19th! 
I want to express my sincere~t apprecia­tion to the members of the K of C far supporting rna boys. 
-Don Corleone 
Pangborn is on its feet again. Blutski has returned. Kill the fatted calf. 
Men-­Nancy Jones has just put up her mistletoe--go on over to 111 Lyons and help her christen it. 
December 22 is Beth Towne's 22nd Birthday. We won't be here then, so call · her now and wish her ahappy "over-the­hill" day at 1344. 
Scoop, Beast, Bu: Mr. Mellow, Ern­From Joisey, Tom and Greg [last two both Frosh!]: WHO ARE YOU? This weekend will prove there's nothing wrong with "my generation." let's not get "trampP.d under foot." 
coz 
P.S. Happy Hanukkah! 
FRANCIE AND JAMIE--Giggle Sisters-· Here's your first personal of the year, on the last day of the year. 
Merry Christ~as-· MB 
f 1 • J 
i" ' l 
., ..... aaaTt.tii-f: •• ~ • • ia ""· ) . ·-..-. ' 
~­
.. 

-
I 
' l I 
r 
~· 
r 


Classifieds  t ~... -­'" ·~  

To my favorite Tex-Mex, Rick Felias Navidad! Love, AMJ Leonard and Mavis, Your favorite maid Marily wishes you -all • a very Merry Christmas! (You too Maggot-face!) Terri, John, Eileen, Pogo, Basil, and I wish you and Harold the Hairless Lion the best C Christmas ever! Love, Your Roomie Bob, Pat, Phil and Little Timmy, A yery Merry Christmas wish to you ! Phil, have the best birthday ever! Love, Shlndu i! -------------------------Patti­; Good luck on your finals! I'm sure you'll!do fine. Merry Christmas and happy 2nd. i MH1------------------­: Bob B., Brad the Vag, Duane, Observer i Blurb, John F., Miss Casey, Terri, ; Peggy, Marybeth, Kathy, Anne, Jimbo, : KP and Housemates • Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year MB , MaryS., :Helen, Heidi, Gaylo, K.C., R.B.B., MLB, Di, Mary, Trisha, Jill J., : Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to •' Lewis's Best. Love, MB To Tess, Carol, Erin, MaryEllen, Mary Lou ,Anne and Jana. Merry Xmas to the best of BP. Have a great break. See you all in 80! Love you all-Lynne  To my Georgia Peach: Thanks for a great Marching season. It won't be the same without you. Love and Best Wishes. F-3 TWELVE DAYS Or BLUTSKI On the 12th day of Xmas My Blutski gave to Me: 12 Blutski robots 11 Throbbing headaches 10 Winter Baseball caps 9Lite Beer T-shirts 8Metal Mobiles 7 Naval Lectures 6 Gray Hushpuppies 5 Mangled chipmunks 4computer programs 3 early breakfasts 2Abba records and a Dimmer switch that works so Yittily! Marte. If I keep on talking now, I'd only start repeating myself... Your OJ Marte, Are you ready to escape? -Old Cape Cod Ellen with the cute 27 year old sister­How is your love life? Better I hope. Have a Great Christmas. Love your Senior Bartender Nymph-How is your love life? Any time you need a date for the movies just call. Have the best Christmas. Love you know who. Ballerina-Bear, For most people Christmas is on the 25th,  MJ and OJ; Merry Christmas and Happy 25th. Nick and I will see you soon! P.S. Hi Chris, Mary, Eric and Annie! To all the Cooz Trainees living in 2N. I hope you all get NO Weightllftlng shirts and black horn rim glasses from Santa Cooz. And Someone Buy Sparky a new album-preferable not by the Eagles. Merry Xmas to all of my friends at ND-SMC. Looking forward to the good times second semester! Love Suzette (Alias Flusette, Nadia or Wlbur) Greg and Eric, Thanx for being such good fr;ends. I hope you both have a great Xmas break. Remember, if you ever need someone to talk to I am always here. Susette TO FIRST FLOOR SMC HOLY CROSS HALL HAVE A VERY MERRY CHRISTMAS!! The Seniors Rm 114 and 115 (PS. We don't bite( Merry Xmas. To all Observerites-Have a Merry, Merry Christmas! Good luck on finals and enjoy your well deserved break. See you in Jan. Rosemary Mom-Merry Christmas! Thanks for all the fattening candy, etc. Have a Nice Vacation. Rosemary MIKE, Merry Christmas !I!!  Ann M. Thanks for making Tuesday the best night of the week. Christmas break will provide a lot of time for Xmas cheer. A "doughnut-" elf. Megan Boyle Merry Christmas & Happy Holidays from your countless friends in Alumni Hall. Stop by for some eggnot & seasonal soirit (s) Dear Tony, You'll never have aclue as to how much Icare about you Merry Christmas, you delinquent. Love, Leslie Dear Cathy, Merry Christmas, hon. V\lhile you're in Rome, I'll wish you were home. Love, Les AnnS. Merry Christmas. I'll see you on the 4th. I'll bring the wine Love, Tim Sharr-Sharr, Chery and Cookie S.O.S.! Our tree has tumbled and Teddy has toppled. Please help restore our sapling and put Teddy "back on top!" Thanx, "The Red Neck Fathers" Marianne, Looking forward to a "vehr"y fesive Saturday night. Thanks for the presents. Love, Cookie Monster To the 4D Glee Clubber: Hopefully big things come in little packages. Don't get caught holding the short end of the stick. Love? Andrea  . Students, Need extra house-mate for 2nd semester? Please call Rob 234-7058. Leave name and phone I. Merry Christmas All. Keek­lf you think Norman got Into my birthday, wait until yours comes around. Love, Always TPC Dearest Maureen, Good luck with all of your finals and with C.C. Merry Christmas! Maureen Happy Anniversary Tom O'Toole, Good luck with your finals. Need any typing done?!? Merry Christmas Love. Maureen Taint-UPS, Have a great Christmaas' Watch alot of TV and don't exercise too much. Me Best M1, The Merriest of Christmases to you, sweetheart! I love you pearly and always -You're the Best' Randee Kaye Sa! M. Merry Christmas Guess Who? Timbowitz, Roses are Red Violets are Blue I'll Miss You And Mr. Jing-A-Ling Will Too' Love Webster  
To Kevin, Jean, Mary Pat, all you JAC members, and everyone else that has made this year so enjoyable and reward­.ing-Merry Christmas!· You're all the .best­, Uncle tom_______________________ , To all my friends from all the halls-you're :all the best-to many to mention, too special to forget, you've made this year · the best Christmas present I could ever ask for. Have a merry Christmas and a super break! Tom B. . Yes, this does apply to you! ~------------------­To Ann, Mark, Mike, Beth and everyone else who had to suffer through a Wednesday night with me-Merry Christ­mas-you all deserve the break! · When do I get Ceil under the mistletoe­that's my Christmas question! Seasons Greetings and a Merry Christ­mas to 704 Corby St., Snow Bunny Mare the Bear Ted the Crab St. Kevan of Keenan Gerhart Kate Marilyn Steve Mico Spinelli Flanner 5 NFN Alumni Disco Moon No Ooze Inc. Ann and Kathy Paul 'sports' Mullaney 'gutsy' Beth Huffman Mark '10th Ave' Perry the News Room Blues Band and the Lewis Family and Ceil t()(l-SAL · Kate McCarthy : This is your very own Christmas personal •Merry Christmas, Happy New Year and : Keep out of trouble. Meoto, It's been a great semester due mostly to I you.· Have a great Christmas break and i enjoy your vacation from O'Cieary. O'Cieary To Ceil P. · A fine secretary like you deserves a raise. But I hope for now you settle for this personal Merry Christmas. Bob Bernoskie i To All Observerites: I would like to wish you all the blessings and yuletide cheer this holy season enkindles. You can make it Christmas even when it isn't the 25th. Bob Bernoskie Leada, Cindy, Lulu, Nella, Janet, Colleen O'Brien, Maureen, Gerry, Coli­. een, Missy, Mindy, Lori, Katie O'Keefe, Annie, Lisa, Erin Buens, Karen Hooper, •and any others I missed. Have a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year! Love Peggy . To my friends of the Student Union, Dome, Scholastic, Student Activities and ND Staff, I wish each one of you a very Merry Christmas and avery Happy New Year. Ceil P. 1 )ear tsdoe, Have aMerry Christmas Italian Style, but I'll miss you all the while, And have a happy 18th B-day too! Just don't forget that I love you! Tne Kid 1-------------------------­i Cam, Jud, and Kate; Merry, Merry Roomies'! Hare a super ' Christmas and a wild New Years' Love ya always I ~----------------------­To all the guys at 806 St. Louis; 1 Have a Merry Christmas and a happyINew Year! I hope Santa is good to all Jf you and your New Year is prosperous'1  but yoLJ have to wait till the 27th at 1:17 am. Bunny Bear PS. Yes, I'm coming too . Cujette, Kato, Lizard & Mimishka, Have a real nice Xmas I'll miss you lots! Love, Your Parisienne Coquette Sweetie, Your 12 days of Christmas memories and blessings: 1silver band ' 2timesvowed 3in unique City 4since Sand City 5th sister, 2 going on 22 6 years unpredictable alarm clocks 7 it's not easy being green 8 Happy ANNIVERSARY 9 writing letter 10 Gin Rummy 11 next year! 12 eternities of love and prayers -Sasha Dearest Lee Ann, Glad you liked the flowers. Hope you have a wonderful Christmas! thinking of You. Your secret admirer Pumpkin, I found a present perfect for you but I couldn't find a box to fit in! Snooky would have been jealous anyway. Merry Christmas. ME K. Meagher Merry Christmas to you and your crazy roomie MAD, Hope its a joyous one. PAT Kevin Korowicki­1 hope you have ahappy Christmas and a good time over break. I'll miss you, but look out when you come back! Merry Christmas, Kathy PS Don't forget, you get your present in January!! Merry Christmas. Mike Mulligan Kathy Codee Merry Christmas-HO HO HO Lefty Lisa Though you're not here I'm sure John would like to wish you a Merry Christmas Jenny, Merry Christmas Love, Pat Lisa. Jeannine and Kathy Once Again Merry Christmas Mike, Hope you're feeling better!! Smile!!! It's Christmas Brenda, Merry Christmas. I would write this en francais mais j'ai oublie ce tout. Bill MERRY CHRISTMAS EVERYONE!!!!!! The Observer would like to wish everyone a Merry Christmas and to all a Good Night I!! Merry. Christmas MJP Gatsby! Love, DSR Daisy ·=· CiEJ  Attention Marybeth Brennan:. Remember you are obligated to pick me up at O'Hare the next time i'm through there. I'll even buy you acoke, it's on the recruiters anyway. Have a nice break, Dig. Kevin To all past and present Observerites-Near and Far: My warmist and sincere wishes to each of you for avery Happy and Holy Christmas Enjoy. Love ya! -Mom-Cathy Brach-Have a nice Christmas break, you deserve it. Good luck on exams, too, even though you probably don't need it. KM Ann, Rosemary, Mike, Mark, Mikes, Diane, Letch, T.M. Jackman, Margie, Pam, Ellen, Mary, MAK., Ann (out of the Jaws of Death) M., Doughnuts, (Spare the Rod, Spoil the child), Deidre (She has aknife in her pocketbook Murphy, Loosey Goosey, Renegade, Trish, Steve 0., No-Doz. Greg, Jim, AD people Bob, Mike, Chris, K. Connelly, SteveS., Cindy K., Lefty, Irish leer, Frak, 1\atie (how could you say no) K., Bruce (arkley reincarnated) Oakley, Ceii(My mom away from home) and all Observer People: Merry Christmas and Tipsy New Year to All!! (All those I forgot may file complaints at POBox Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.) Panama Red Ann, To the nicest person in my world--Thanx for being yourself-never change. (Except in a 3-D way) Merry Christmas! Panama Red Rich, I hope you have a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. Hope 1980 is as good as 1979. Love, Patsy Merry Xmas and Happy New Year to­Lauri, Leslie, Peggy 0., Charm, Peggy B., Marilyn, Barb, Jody, Jenny, Mary, Tiacy, Gina, Katie G., Sandy, Karen, laura C., Joellen B., Erin F., Matt R., Matt H., Andy, Lisa G., Brian C., Panama, Paul B., Craig, Mark, Katie H., Scoop, Mike Bill, Brian, John (JAF), Pam D., JohnS., Kevin, Tom G., and all the cows in Ludlow Falls! Beth and Patsy PS. Sorry if we forget anyone. Lynne Murray, Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. Your Kris Kringle WNDU NewsRoom Merry Christmas! The Same to You too Mr. Kevorkian Trish DAVE Will you JOin a basketball team or something! Merry Xmas. -Susette PS. Do you remember? Lisa "Little Goose" Will be 19 on Tuesday!! Come celebrate with Lisa and all other December babies this friday at Gooses II PS Happy birthday Lis-----Huff Merry Christmas and a belated Happy Birthday STUD Love Michael  MaryLouise and Greg Merry Christmas Love Pattie Some say you're icky poo Som say you're adummy But no matter what you do I still think you're yummy. your true lover Jeff A Romeo you're not Just ask Icky Poo, my Sharona 22 or all the rest But just ask Marko Cause you're the best 7A Jeff She started out to be "My sharona" but ended up just "Breaking Away" us Jeff, It started out nice and normal. V\lhen we headed to the OC formal But you better do some talkin soon for some think its was more than a "credit" union. To Our Pseudo Roommate: Everyone needs a good BUDDE but this is getting ridiculous. Please come home for Christmas. PFNS Jeff Twas acold, cold night and we had atest, but lo you left to climb Mt. Everest EE's Hey "Moni" "Cath," "Marge", and "Annie"­The women of 397 Lemans: You are all fantastic and deserve the best new year! Have a great Christmas-but make it wild and casual! Love, Mary To myEl Paso Roommates: GLOFand LIUAF Merry Christmas The Minnesot'l Connection To Rae, Scherer, Wildwoman, Marg, other Benildites and other Minnesotans: GLOF and Live it up afterwards' Merry Christmas Sweets To R.1rbara, Mary, The One-armed dancer and her namesake: GLOF (Goodluckonfinals) and afterwards. Have a Very Merry Christmas PS To Dave Campbell Merry Christmas to THE formal pace­setter of the ND campus Bob, Have agreat Christmas in Florida. I'll be waiting for you in Rochester to start the new year off right. Merry Christmas' Love, ML Dr. Dom DeFrancis: Congrats on cincy Medical School and Good luck on NO. Merry Christmas Ellen, Jeanine and the Wild Women of 1W Lewis Mitch and Cindy Have a Merry Christmas and a Happy new year!' Your friend and 0300 Chauffeur  • ·  Peck, , Hurry home the mistletoe is waiting! I Love You, MUSH Merry Christmas, Charlie! Love Always, BeckyP.S. How's that? 359 Zahm-Merry Christmas, Joyet.:x Noel Frohliche Weinachsten! Hope it's the Best-B-Star Bow Wow Badin Juniors, Have fun. remember that KISFF, So go for it! ?? Sundef XIII: Joyeux Noel, mes petits. Amusez-vous bien. Que faisions-nous il y a une annee??? Merry Christmas to my Huggable, Snug­gable Fuzzy bear! I love you, your muffinhead The Pangborn Plague wishes Fricke, Hudy, Dan, Murph, Tom Stoney, Matt and Pat ­and the rest of 2nd floor a very merry and a happy, too Loveya. To Whoever Returned my ID. Thank You and Merry Christmas Deirdre Murphy Margaret, Merry Christmas Love, Rich John McGrath, Thanks for all your help-Sorry for all the trouble. Merry Christmas Trish Shannon, Hands of the Viverin before complimen­tary back rules. Merry Christmas sometime soon. The Lady's Steward Tom G., Your in luck' The Pope has pardoned alterboys who drink at gunpoint and I still have a few bullets left. DEAR SANTA, I've been a good "little" boy this year. No girls (except on the dance floor). no booze. just finance books. I would like: A truck load of lzod clothing so I can dress like my idol, Joe B.. Devine for the next 1 0 yrs., A build likJ:l Dan B., Atransfer to SMC., A roommate who won't walk in when I'm "busy", And a subscription to Hustler so I know how to be "busy". Grant me my wishes, don't rag. Your cooz, John C. Gschwind Chere Bubs, Mon Noel sera bleu sans toi. Joyeux Noel' Affecteusement, Frodo (ox) AChristian Christmas to five Crazy Cavanaugh Cuties Paul Gong, Bill Fitzgerald, Mark Derby, Mike Martinez, and their Flintor.ia friend. John Gibbons Love. Anne Advertising Staff Merry Christmas and have a good break. Thanks for your dedicated efforts this semester  I 1 ~­ 




-
··. ·: . ~­
'-r --~~ 
~ >y, December , , 1979 -page ~4
. .. :-t·~·· -. -~..-"' ______""""____
-

Irish face tough contest against SL U Billikens 
by Matt Huffman S/Jo:~-:-lf/ri' ·r 
The St. Louis University Billikens come w IOWIJ boasting four returning starters and two hot junior college transfers ready to fell the Irish. The Bills, under second year coach Ron Ekker, are coming off a 10-17 record last year and sporting a 1-1 mark in the 1979-80 campaign. 
Digger Phelps realizes that SLU can not be taken lightly. "St. Louis has plenty of exper­ience and talent on hand. They're an excellent shooting team. They are well coached and the two junior college transfers-·Whittenburg and Burns--have helped them a lot.'' 
The two transfers from Navar­ro Junior College are Willie Whittenburg, a 6-fot 6-inch forward, and David Burns, a 6-foot 4-inch guard. Whitten· burg is averaging 6. 5 points per game and helping out tremen­dously on the boards. while Burns is scoring at a 17.0 clip. The best match up of the day should be between 6-foot 9-inch Irish center Orlando Woolridge and the Billiken's man in the middle', 6-foot 7 -inch Kelvin Henderson. Henderson, an All-Metro conference pick at center, is the team's leading scorer and rebounder. Both players are small for the posi­
tion and borh m;tintain ·a great deal ofbaskf'tbal' savvy on the court. 
Rounding out the Billiken's starting five are 6-foot 6-inch forward Mark Rhode (10 ppg.) and 6-foot 2-inch guard J 1m Glass (9. 5 ppg.). The Bill's best shooter Craig "1-taver (6­foot4-inch) will be pmviding strong bench support. 
The 3·0 Irish will tip off after an impressive win over North· wesrern. Leading Notre Dame's scoring attack are tor­wards Tracy Jackson and Kelly Tripuka. Tripuka is scoring at a rate of 19.5 points per game while .Jackson is contributing 
16.0 ppg. Three other double digit scorers highlight the Notre Dame roster: senior co-captain 
Rich  Branning  (12.0  ppg.),  
freshman  center  Tim  Andree  
(11. 5 ppg.)  and  junior  center  

Orlando Woolridge (10. 5 ppg.). 
Coach Ron Ekker is trying to rejuvenate a once great basket­ball pr0gr~m that has sagged in recent years. Ekker, also the school's athletic director, has had success in this area at West Texas State before coming to the Gateway City. 
The St. Louis student body ehthusiasm has increased as the Billiken's chances for a successful season have grown. Brice Keegan, the sports direc­tor of KBIL (the student radio station at SLU), ~as observed 
.•.!or..__.....,.,,____..~-----~··---..-......= 

Breen-Phzllips interha/1 foot~a/1 chaml?ionship team: 1st row left to right: Sarah McGrath, 
Pe~gy Owens, Nancy Dawson, Kathy Welsh, Kath McMahon, and}an Schla((. 2nd row: 
Cezl Kehoe, Kathleen McManus. Mary Beth Sterling, Alesia Dodey, Daphine Bazllt Karen Fleck an~ Lis~ Conway 3rd row: Craij.!, Ze,bold and r:ete .sullivan, Terry Dwy~r, Sue Malloy, ' 
Ltz P,she' Bee-Bopp Hayes, Laura Larkner, Lzsa Szrok,y, Marianne Meyesrs, and Karen Ali~. 
this on a first hand basis. 
''The students are really high on basketball this year. This spirit and support for the basketball team have gr(lwn tremendously in the last two years," notes Keegan. 
Notre Dame and St. Louis are resuming an old rivalry after a six-year absence. The last meeting was won by the Irish 94-65 on December 8, 1973 with the Billikens holding a 14-13 series edge. 
Coach Phelps is looking for­ward to playing St. Louis again. We're excited about having St. Louis back on the schedule. it's a traditional rivalry. There have been plenty ofgood games 
in this series, and aft the ingredients are there for a­nother exciting contest.'' GAME NOTES: 
jjy the way, a Billiken is a small statue representing an Indian Moon God. Sr. Louis University is the only institution to possess this unique mascot. 
Observer staffers end percentage race with bowl picks ........ 'Brian BeglaneMark Perry Paul Mullaney Beth Huffman Frank l.aGrotta Craig Chval Michael OrtmanSports WriterSports Editor Asst. Sports Editor Women'sSports Editor Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Writer105-47' .691110-42,.724 103-49,.678 108·44,. 711 105-47,.691 112-40,.737 104·48,. 684 TempleGARDEN STATE BOWL Temple California Temple California California California by6California vs Temple by6 by7 by3 by3 by5 by8 Brigham YoungHOLIDAY BOWL Brigham Young Brigham Young Brigham Young Brigham Your1g Brigham Young Brigham Young byBBrigham Young vs. Indiana by 10 by8 by6 by6 by 13 by 10 TexasSUN BOWL Texas Texas Texas Washington Texas Texas by9Texas vs Washington by13 by 17 by6 by 1 by9 by7 TulaneLIBERTY BOWL Tulane Penn State Tulane Penn State Tulane Tulane by2Penn State 11s Tulane by4 by6 by3 by6 by8 by6 Wake ForestTANGERINE BOWL Wakeforest Wake Forest Louisiana State Louisiana State Wake Forest Louisiana State by6Louisiana State vsWake Forest by 1 by4 by 1 by7 by 4 by9 ArizonaFIESTA BOWL Pittsburgh Pittsburgh Pittsburgh Pittsburgh Pittsburgh Pittsburghby 10 by9Arizona liS Pittsburgh by 13 by 21 by7 by22 by? MichiganGATOR BOWL Michi~an Michigan Michigan Michigan Michigan Michigan by12Michigan liS North Carolina by by 1 by5 by10 by 10 by 10 MissouriHALL OF FAME BOWL South Carolina Missouri South Carol ina Missouri South Carolina South Carolina by4Missouri vs South Carolina by7 by4 by9 by3 by6 by3 ClemsonPEACH BOWL Clemson Clemson Clemson Clemson Clemson Clemson by 41Baylor vs Clemson by6 by24 by6 by4 by13 by 12 TennesseeBLUEBONNET BOWL Purdue Purdue Purdue Tennessee Purdue Purdue by4Purdue liS Tennessee by 10 by6 by 10 by3 by7 by6 HoustonCOTTON BOWL Nebraska Nebraska Nebraska NebraskaNebraska Nebraska by2Houston vs Nebraska by6 t:Jy4 by4by3 by5 by8 ArkansasSUGAR BOWL Alabama Arkansas ArkansasAlabama Alab<.ma Alabama by6 by 20Alabama 11s Arkansas by3 by5 by6 by8 by8 Ohio StateROSE BOWL Southern Cal Southern Cal Ohio StateOhio State Southern Cal Ohio State by 8Ohio State 11s Southern Cal by 1 by6 by3by 1 by 14 by 12 Florida StateORANGE BOWL Florida State Oklahoma Oklahoma OklahomaOklahoma Florida State by6by 10Florida State 11s Oklahoma by2 by3 by6by3 by 10 Notre DameNotre Dame Notre DameBASKET BOWL Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame by7by6 by3 by 11UCLA at Notre Damlt by8 by8 by 15 Notre DameNotre Dame Notre DameNEUTRALITY BOWL Notre Dame Notre Oame Notre Dame Kentucky by21by4 by10Notre Dame vs Kentucky by3 by2 by2 by9  . ' ~l ,-·-· ,-"\:. . : '• . ···:·.··· Paul Stauder WSND Sports 109-43,.717 Temple by3 Brigham Young by 14 Washington by4 Tulane by9 Louisiana State by6 Pittsburgh by6 Michigan by 16 Missouri by9 Clemson by3 Purdue by4 Nebraska by 16 Alabama by 2 Southern Cal by 1 Oklahoma by20 A Notre Dame by3 Notre Dame by5  

¥£.tAWF-rS!f JiW 43*1*&1 uu; "W&W ge 







