-----------------~-----­
• • • 'Activities Night ' gUide -pages.·.5-8 


VOL. XIV, NO. 10 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Non-aligned nations condetnn peace treaty 
HAVANA (AP) -The summit conference of non-aligned nations 
ended yesterday with a resolution "energetically condemning" 
the Israeli-Egyptian peace treaty and the Camp David talks that 
led to it. 
The peace treaty condemnation, part of an overall final 
declaration, capped six hours of debate on one of the most divisive 
issues at the Havana conference. The declaration is to serve as a 
guideline for the movement over the next three years until the next 
summit, scheduled for 1982 in Baghdad. 
For six days, one more than was scheduled, delegates struggled to determine whether the movement should continue non-ali~ned or take the anti-imperialist tack proposed by Cuban Prestdent Fidel Castro. 
In a closing speech, Castro, the conference host, said his stewardship of.the ~oveii_lent over the next three year" .is ''.not to benefit Cuba. Thts evtdently was a response to ctltlcs tn the 95-member group who feared Castro would try to push the non-aligned movement closer to the Soviet camp. 
After a night-long, 13-hour closed-door session, the summit delegates approved the overall declaration which contained a wide-ranging attack on U.S. foreign policy, but also preserved the movement's independent character. 
The hard-line Arab bloc, which earlier had proposed suspension of Egypt from the non-aligned movement, settled for the resolution condemning the peace treaty after it ran into solid oppostion from the numeric<tlly powerful African bloc. But the delegates agreed to assign a committee to review Egypt's peace initiatives and decide whether the President Anwar Sadat's government should be suspended. 
According to eonrerence sources, there was acrimonious debate between the Arabs and a group of 15 largely pro-W estern African states led by Liberia and Senegal. The Africans argued that a member nation should not be suspended for waging peace. Underlying the dispute was growing resentment from the poorer oil-consuming nations in Africa over higher prices imposed by the Arab-led oil producers' carte. 
The sources said a pledge from an oil-rich state of an undisclosed sum of money to offset oil price hikes made compromise with the African states possible. 
The Arabs said Egypt must be punished to dissuade other countries from supforting what they regard as a peace treaty that sells out the overal Arab cause to gain back territory lost to Israel in wartime. 
The delegates ignores fervent ap{>eals from Butros Ghali, Egyptian Minister of State for Foretgn Affairs, who said his government's initiative did not amount to a separate peace with Israel but a first step toward an overall Mideast settlement. 
Ghali appeared to have won the fight Friday when the movement s political committee was hopelessly divided on the Egyptian question. The issue then was referred to the presidential commission, which is weighted heavily against the Egyptian cause. Condemnation was approved there and the recommenda­tion was passed on to the summit level. 


MONDAY SEPTEMBER 10, 1979 
·-Hesburgh speaks on hunger crisis 
by Neal Patterson Staff, Reporter 
,, 
J "We are faced with an enormous challenge, and if we don't meet that challenge a terrible judgement may be cast on our nation and our people,'·' warned university Prestdent Fr. Theodore Hesburgh as he ad­dressed a meeting of the World Hung,er Coalition last night in the ltbrary auditorium. 
Hesburgh, who recently re­turned from the United Nations Conference on 'Science and Technological Development held in Vienna, began by 
· emphasizing the need for Americans to address them­selves to the/light of the many disdvantage people through­
, out the world. ''People in America are con­fronted with a dilemma. We 
live in a dream world in which we are well fed and comfort­able, and we generally don't ' concern ourselves with the suf­1 ferings of others," he ex­
. plained. ' 
''It is a great spiritual thing 
. to identify with the hungry, and by fasting on night a week you gain a small sense of what millions of people must endure all of their ltves," he continued. 
1 
1[continued on page 10) 


Monks squander millions 
Washington (AP) -An order of Roman Catholic monks has "squandered" millions of dol­lars in contributions and invest­ments in recent years, accord­ing ro a Gannett News Service report. 

Sr. Katherine Reichert resigns ~SMC Campus Ministry post 
hy Margie Brassil Stlint Mary's News Editor 
Sr. Katherine Reichert, Co­ordinator of Saint Mary's Cam­pus Ministry, has resi~ned her position upon her election to the CoWlcil of the Midwest Region of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. Her election was announced Sep•. 1. 
Reichert says she will now be in organizing and promoting the works of the sisiters in the South Bend. The Midwest Re_gion consists of the states of Ilhnois, Inidana, Mchigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Kansas,and Missouri. 
Reichert first began working as Director of Campus Ministry in 1969, a position she held until 1973 when she left to study and became Vocational Director for two years. She returned in 19n as Coordinator ofi Campus Ministry, and has been working for the last four 
According to one colleague the Campus Ministry ~rew very strong under Reichert s leader­ship. "Students would seek her out for counseling at any time and she was always free for everybody. She will be ~ready missed by the students.' 
The purp~se of Campus tv!i­nistry, as Retchert expressed tt, is to encourage people toward r.rayer and social commitment. 
'We try to respond to what J>eo~le ask of us." 
In a series that began yester­day, the news service reported that church leaders, including Po{>e John Paul II, have been trymg to remedy alleged abuses by the order for the past five years. 
The first segment of the series on the Pauline Fathers said, "Vatican documents show that, in less than a decade, the order squandered a substantial por­tion of $20 million in charitable donations, loans, investments and bond proceeds through mismanagement,.·dubious busi­ness practices, and what Vati­can investigators described as 'chaotic' and 'immoral' life­styles." 
Attempts to obtain comment on the report yesterday from leaders of the Doylestown, Pa.-based order were unsuc­cessful. An unidentified person at the Doylestown monastery who answered a call from The Associated Press said, "This is not any of your business.'' 
Gannett's account said the order's financial troubles were engineered by a leader of the Paulines were of questionable legality and were contrary to church laws, the report said. Papal investigators reportedly reviewed business deals and tax-avoidance schemes in five states -Florida, California, Pennsylvania, Delaware and New York. 
The investigators, joined by Cardinal john Krol, Archbishop of Philadelphia, directed that the ?ff~n~ing priests be seve~e­ly dtsctphned, the news servtce 
r~u~~ti:~~d~, Pope Joh~ ~aul II reversed the deciston to disci­pline some Paulines and closed the inquiry into the order and its exploits with a papal decree issued May 21. 
Krol was unavailable for com­ment yesterday. 
The Vatican inquiry .centered on the Very Rev. Michael M. Zembrzuski, vicar-general of the Pauline Fathers, Gannet said. Zembrzuski is founder and superior of the Polish order in the United States and undis­

Midwestern states, as well as years in coordinating liturgies, • My greatest loss in leaving a "crisis for the Vatican that puted controller of its finances. aiding in the ongoing spiritual and discussions as welf as is the personal friends and ripped apart" the 600-year-old Zembrzuski was not available development of the sisters in teaching. students at Saint Mary's, but Polish congregation, formally 1 for comment yesterday. the region." While lookins forward to her I'll be on campus frequently for known as the Order of St. Paul The report said Zembrzuski, 
Theregional Superior is Sr. new duties, Retcher said it will meetings and I hope to stay in the First Hermit. It said the 70, was ordered by the Vatican Mary Michael who is also be hard leaving the campus. "I touch. events "pushed" church hier­to surrender control of the Chairman of the Board of willmiss being on campus be­For the 1979-80 school year, archy into "an effort to avoid order. About that time, he Regents·. Reichert will be one cause I have. enjoyed it and Reichert will act as consultant civil and criminal prosecution of traveled to Poland to renew 
of three assistants helping her have be~~ very happy a~ part of for Campus Ministry. Un:,;il a those involved and consequent friendships with Cardinal Karol in' the Midwest. Reichert, who the rehgtous and spmtual · new Coordinator is fouqd, public scandal. Wojcyla of Krakow, who later lived in Lourdes Hall while in growth•of the people there, as Kathleen Rice, Dean of Stu~nt A Vatican probe of the order's ibecame John Paul II, and Campus Ministry, will now be well as sharing liturgies and Affairs will serve as the ¥ting financial affairs led to the ·Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski, the living in the Regional House in discussions.'' Director of Campus Minisr;ry. conclusion that some activities primate of Poland. 
rr-------------------------------~r---------------------------------------------------­

News in brief 
Monday, September 10,1979 
SALT gains 
conditional support 
Washington (AP) -The chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee said yesterday the strategic arms limitation treaty with the Soviet Union stands no chance of being ratified by the Senate unless the Russians pull their combat troops out of Cuba: Sen. Frank Church, D-Idaho, who ftrst revealed last week that U.S. intelligence had conftrmed the brigade's presence, said the mood of the Senate is such that SALT and the troops in Cuba are linked. "I am for SALT," Church said. But, he added, " ... in my judgment, the Senate will not ratify the SALT treaty while Russian combat troops are in Cuba.'' 

Miss America pledges ten percent to God 
Atlantic Ciry, N.]. (AP) -The new Miss America, Cheryl Prewitt of Mississippe, says she will offer 10 ,Percent of her earnings to God for her two ''miracles'' -walking again after a crippling childhood accident and winning the Miss America Pageant. "God is the instigator o this whole thing. If it wasn't for Him, I would never have gotten out of that wheelchair and walked,'' she said yesterday only hours after she became the ~2nd Miss America. Her faith goes back to 1968, she said, when her left leg was crushed in an automobile accident. The injury left her in a body cast and wheelchair for eight months. AlthouBh doctors said she would never walk again, Miss Prewitt said her prayers allowed her to walk. Then on Oct. 21, 1974, she said, she returned to prayer at a Jackson, Miss., rivival meeting, where about 300 other believers joined to ask that her shorter left leg grow to match her right. "I was sitting there very calmly. We prayed and we asked," she said. "I sat and watched my leg grow out instantaneously two inches." Asked if she thought peot>le would believe her medical "miracle," Miss Prewitt said: "I'm not worried. Ifl worried about it, then I wouldn't believe it happened. But I know it did and if others don't.... " 
Users get new high from legal 'Zoom ' 
Beverly Hills, Calif. (AP) -A stimulant called "Zoom" is causing a sensation on the drug scene, where users say they are finding a new "high" from the pill and its unusual selling point-it's legal. Zoom is being touted as "a natural organic simulant and appetite depressant." Although Zoom's main ingredient, the Brazilian herb guarana, is legal, the'Food and Drug Administration says it has launched an investigation of this new "upper." Users have compared Zoom's kick to cocaine, even though initial FDA tests show its chief active ingredient is caffeine: the same amount as in a few cups of coffee. 

Irish security prepares for john Paul II 
DUBLIN* IRELAND (AP) -A police spokesman said yesterday that Irish security officials are considering the possibility of an attack on· Pope John Paul II by Protestant exptremists when he visits Ireland Sept. 29-0ct. 1. But he declined to comment on a report m a Londan Sunday newspaper that Protestant "hitmen" from the British province of Northern Ireland have plans to kell the Roman Catholic Pontiff. "Everything IS a possibility and the precautions that will be taken during the visit will inc'orpor~ue ev,.,T possibility,"said the spokesman for. Garda, the. Insh poli. c force. "But we cannot nswer questtons on particular stories like this. We don't pay any attention to those sort of thinE ·' London's Sunday Mirror, in a front-page story, quoted an unidentified Norther Ireland "intelligence chief' as saying: "We have good reports that the Pope os the No. 1 target" of the Protestant par~military groups plottif';g reprisals for the Aug. 27 bombmg deaths of Lord Louts Mountbatten and 18 british soldiers. The mainly Catholic Irish Republican Army has clai!l)ed responsibility for blowing up Moumb;::rcn ·~yacht i'l ln·land's Donegal Bay and for triggering two bombs that killed the soldiers several hours later in Northern Ireland nearnhern Ireland near the Irish bonk1 . A spokesman for the Ulster Defense Association -called the newspaper report "totally ridiculous,' according to Britain's Press Association. 

Weather 

Sunny today. High near 80. Fair tonight. Low in the upper ~Os. Partly sunny tomorrow. High in the low 80s. 
-pa,ge 2 
Trend stabilizes 

Grads prefer to begin careers 
by Neal Patterson StaffReporter 
The trend for seniors who 
have recently been graduated 

to begin careers instead of 
furthering their education con­
tinues, but has not increased1 
according to a survey of 1979 
Notre Dame graduates conduct­
ed by the Analytical Studies 
Department. 
The surve)', which was 
undertaken for the annual 
report on career information, 
includes responses from 94 
percent of last year's grad­
uates. 
Of those who responded, 43 
percent P,ad already begun or 
were planning to begtn a 
career, while a slightly smaller 
number exl?ected to continue 
their education. The remaining 
respondents indicated that they 
would begin temporary careers 
in the military or the Peace 
Corps, or that they were un­
decided about their future 
plans. These figures are almost 
Identical to those for 1978. 
According to Richard 
Willemin, director of the Place­
ment Bureau, "the state of the 
economy has a great effect on 
whether someone will immedi­
ately choose a career or attend 
graduate school, and the job 
market has been good dunng 
recent years. And while job 
opprotunities generally are 
more readily available for grad­
uates with degrees in engineer­
ing or business, an increased 
Erratum 
Anyone wishing to perform at the Nazz should contact Mary Ahern at 4763 or 77~7, not at the number given in yesterJ day's Observer. 
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor: john Smith Asst. Night Editor: Scoop ~yout Staff: Randee jenn­mgs, Margte Brassil, Mark. Perry, Ryan Ver Berk.moes Editorial Layout: joe Rodri­guez Features Layout: Scoop [who else?] Sports Layout: Paul Barry Mullaney Typists:Beth Willard, Man·­lyn Broderick., Carol Corn­wall, Paula Shea, Ann Gales, Scoop [Hi, again .... I EMTs: Michelle kelleher, ann Gales [thanx, Ann!] 
Day Editor: Bob Bernoskie SMC Day Editor: Lisa Stan­czak. Copy Editor: Nick. Zagotta Ad Layout: Dave Wood, Ann Fink. Photographer:Btlly Santulli, Dave Rumbach 
Extra layout by Scoop, Mar­gie Brasstl, Mark. Perry, and Ryan Ver Berk.moes 
The Observer [USPS 598 920] Is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions lillY bt purchased for $20 per yur [$10 per semester] from The Observer. 1'.0. box 0, Notre bame, Indiana 46556. Stcond class ~e paid, NDirl Dame, In­diana . 
The Observer Is 1 member If tht Associated Pms. AH reproduction rights are I'ISifYid. 

number of graduates with degrees in arts and letters or science are also choosing to begin careers right after grad­uation.'' 
Willemin also said that many graduates desire to work for a year or two and then attend graduate school. 
''This has advantages for both the student and the school," Willemin added. 
''The student has a chance to become more mature and gain some actual work experience which is often very valuable in graduate schooL And the school benefits by havingamore knowledgeable and mature student who can bring realistic work experiences into the class­room. 
''Because of these benefits, many graduate schools pres~rnt­ly advocate work experience before matriculation, and industry has been very cooper­ative in this respect by provid­ing numerous opportunities for employees to continue their education.'' 
Since the conditions respon­sible for the trend still exist and this year's job market looks promising, Willemin concludes that the present tendency toward careers should continue, at least into the near future. 
u.a. ........u.M•vtca STATEMENT OF OWNE=•~A,_~E:!rT AND CIIICULATION 


1979 YEARBOOKS 
will be distributed to last year's overseas Tues. Sept. 11 and Thurs. Sept. 13 from 2:30-4:30 In the Student Activities l Office 
~-------------------~--------, 
JOINI HELPI HAVE FUNI 
----------~---------­
THE STUDENT SERVICE
OBUO• ORGANIZATION, WILL BE AT ACTIVITIES NIGHT ON mONDAY 
ALSO!I Q_6.!J_O .phone seRVIce 1s sack! 
I DIAL 0-8-U-D 
'i -, 
~--~~--------------~~~-~---~ 
'--'~~~-.--~~~~ ..··~~ ~ ~ ." .. ~~~····~-,.~.· 
The Observer Monday, Sept~ 10~ 1979 ~ PQe 3 
CLC tneets tonight to select chairtnan 
by Andy Segovia 

Tonight's meetins.· of the Campus Life Councd will ad­dress a number of important issues according to Student Body President Bill Roche. 
Among the first orders of business will be the election of a new chairman and parlia­mentarian. For the past two years the Student Body Presi­dent has been elected chair­man. Roche emphasized that the CLC is not bound to follow this proceedure. 
The CLC will also consider changes in its constitution. ''These changes will pertain to the addition of a judicial co­ordinator and an off campus commissioner,'' Roche explain­ed. 
"Revisions must 'be made on quorum specifications and other procedures affected by these additions." ' 
Roche also said that the . constitution will be changed to allow the attendence of the Vice President of Student Affairs and the Delln of Students at every CLC meeting. 
''Last year these university officials were able to attend only a third of the CLC meet­
ings.''  
Another  highlight  of  to­ 
night's  meeting  will  be  the  
presentation  of  a  new  keg  

directive proposal. Under tl>e proposal kegs would be allowed on campus in party rooms according to certam guidelines, Rpche explained. 
"Students feel strongly about this issue," Roche noted, "a number ofstudents, recors, and other officials worked with the student government in drafting the proposal." 
The new guideline calls for kegs to be allowed only in specified hall party rooms, a restriction on tapping kegs near the end of a party, and a limitation on the maximum number of kegs allowed. 
''The limitation guideline would give the halls discretion in setting the specific number of kegs allowed," said Roche. 
The proposal is endorsed by the Board of Commissioners and the Hall Presidents Coun­
cil. "We are hoping the proposal will pass the CLC and be approved by the Univer­sity," Roche stated. · · 
In addition to the keg propos­al new party room guidelines will be discussed. 
''Presently the party rooms may only be used on weekends. The new guidelines would give the hall staffs a greater option in use of the party rooms,'' Roche explained. 
Also during the meeting a draft proposal concerning. CLC input in DuLac changes wtll be distributed. "We will distrib­ute the proposal so that mem­bers of the Council may evalu­ate it for consideration at our following meeting," he said. 
Presently the Administration must consult the CLC before changes are made concerning rules and re~ulations. The new proposals wtll call for CLC input mto changes made to hall 

residence regulations and uni­
versity policies. 
''The CLC is currently at a 
crossroads,'' Roche comment­
ed, "Many students lack con­
fidence in the CLC yet we hope 
to make it a useful and potent 
campus organization." 
Roche commented on the 
goals and role of the student 

government. "I feel the role of 
the student _president and 
vice-president 1s to ,communi­
cate the interests of the stud­
ents to the administration as 
effectively as possible.'' 
According to Roche the board 
ofcommissiOners will play a key 
role in the student government. 
He said,. "We are strivin~ to 
make the Board of Commission­
ers an effective center of stud­
ent government.'' 
Roche pointed out that stud­
ent input has already rrached a 
landmark in student involve­
ment in hiring of the new 
Security Director. This is the 
first time students were allowed 
to partiL~pate in such a process. 
Roche concluded l: · saying, ''Of course the student gov­ernment will continue to strive for improvement of the physical facilities and quality of life for students. 

Closes tomorrow SMC Student Assembly accepts nominations 11. • ·~ 
by Ellen Buddy 1978-79 Saint Mary's Student Government Manual is ''to 
Nominations for Saint Mary's exercise jurisdication . over allStudent Assembly are presently legislation that solely affects open and will close at midnight 

students.'' 
tomorrow according to Mary One representative is electedMullaney, election commission-

for every 100 students per hall er. and off-campus. Presently,
''Platforms should be one there are sixteen openingstyped page in triplicate," Mul­available for on-campus repre­laney said, "and should contain sentatives and one opening for 

basic background informa­

off-campus. LeMans, Holytion.'' All platforms are to be 
turned in to Mullaney ·at Room 429, Lemans Hall. 
Campaigning runs from Sept. 12 to Sept. 16 and elections will be held on Monday, September 17. 


''The Station That Rocks You From the Tower''
The purpose of Student As­
ANNOUNCES
sembly, according to the 

SEX AT NOTRE DAME A live show, where you can call in It's RADIO FREE N.D.
NSHP 

Tonight at 11, featuring alumni
• 

E.). tLe D.). Eldridge
to recrutt 

Back for one show, on WSND -AM 64 

volunteers 
The Neighborhood Study 

·Help Program, a campus volun­teer servtce, will be recruiting volunteers today through Thursday during the dinner hours in the dining halls. The NSHP allows students from the OCET-SHIRTCO 
A




r-----mrr,orr..rncoR'D 1 
l
I In the 100 Centet offets I 
~ 

1 10% off on I 
-v

I 
EVERYTHING 
•

r-Shi""'tComp~ny
with ID & coupon 
' 
RECORDS, TAPES, P ANALIA 
Saint Mary's and ND campuses to tutor children from the South 
CUSTOM 
Bend Area schools on a one-to­one basis. Transportation is 
DESIGN 
provided. Students unable to '(Oiunteer 
·t·shirh 
·vi,ors
at the scheduled times may do 
.jackets
so by calling Marty Murphy 
8933, Sue Claus 4515 (SMC), or 

· '•'' shirts John Sax 232-0265. The tutor­
•9Y"' s"ortl ing group will also be at 
• 
AC~
activities night at Stepan 
Center tonight. 

Cros~ and Reg~na all have four openmgs, whtle McCandless has three and Augusta has one. 
''One of student assembly's main goals this year is to revise the Student Government Man­ual,'' Mullaney said. Another duty ofthe Student Assembly is to allocate funds to all clubs and organizations. 
For more information, 
call· 

Mary Mullaney at 4509. 
FASTER 
~~ ~.;:>
rl"\..._... 
'.":,~ 


~ ,u""
.z~N 
0~ 
rn 
I . 
Vl 
~ 
~ 
]
~ 



SERVICE 

" 

QUAL\TY PRODLCTS -.,. 
1:

BEST PRrCE 
cont~ct: 
-
.I 
-
•"• 

To~r~ S,..;th Ted8rueh
... 

Ken Siefert :t~' Gr-.ce. HoJ/ 
.I 

t~o Notre Do....e Ave. ~ tl-::u $'7 
"pt '41> 
1 
~J.)-l;OS~ 

I 
1.::==================::..1.,~--__llllillili.........-~.• ' 
• 
\ 





!Editorials 
Monday, September 10, ~979 -pa_ge 4 


Get Involved-­Tonight! 
There is more to a college education than yo~ can lear~ ~r?m books. Notre Dame's variety of extra-curncular acttvtues offers you the chance to prove this cliche for yourself. It is a chance you should not ignore. . . 
Tonight more than eighty .c~f!Ipus .club~ and orgamzattons will be represented at Actt.vtttes Ntgh~ m Stepan Center. These extra-curriculars, whtle not requtrements for sradua­tion form a valuable part of the Notre Dame educatiOn. 
A~ong the groups represented tonight will be Student Union, student government, T~e Observer and other campus media athletic and academtc clubs, and a number of volunt~er service organizations. Involvement in any of these activities can provide work experience in various fields, and allows students to express talents that can not be expressed in a classroom. 
Membership in an extra-curricular activity is a. way ?f meeting different people from the ND/SMC com!flumty. It 1s a cure for the "lost in the crowd" feeling expenenced by so many freshmen during their first few months ~t Notre Dame. It allows up.(>en:lassmen !O make new acquamtances and to increase thetr c1rcle of fnends. 


Hunger Coalition seeks _{asters
Perhaps most importantly, ·involvement in a campus organization provides an escape from the srudy all 

Once again the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's 
and have witnessed the operation of reliefweek/party all weekend rut that so many students f:tll into. 
World Hunger Coalition is asking srudents. to 
organizations.
Clubs and organizations are a productiVe use of ttme that 

participate in the fasting program. Ftrst 
The fast is nor only a means of raising funds butmight otherwise be wasted. They are a reason and not an 
semester last year 500 people signed up for the 
also a way of increasing student awareness ofexcuse to take a needed break from studies. . 
fast, a number that unfortunately dropped to 
world poverty. When the fasters feel hungry onIn four years you will invest between twenty and t~trty 
half by second semester. In order to encourage 
Wednesday afternoons, they will realize thatthousand dollars' in your education. The Observer advtses 
more students to become involved in the fasting 
their hunger is the result of giving up a meal for you to make the most of this investment. Find out what 
program, the Hunger Coalition h~s moved the 
the sake of the deprived. This week-by-w~ekNotre Dame has to offer you besides classes and. happy hours· 
fast from the Wednesday evenmg meal to 
realization should promote a more lastmgDo yourself a favor: drop by Stepan Center tomght between Wednesday lunch. 
consciousness for the impoverished. The7 p.m. and 12 midnight. Get involved. 
For each student who pledges to fast, the 
Hunger Coalition wants to stress, however, that
Dining Hall Administration gtves the Hunger 
the purpose of the fast is not to find out how a

Coalitton 75 cents for each Wednesday lunch 
starving person feels. . 

v 


DOOIBSBUBY 

o/J Gfd'ftu~· 

meal that the student misses. However, if a student breaks his or her pledge by eating a Wednesday lunch, the Hunger Coalition re­ceives no more money for that student for the remainder of the semester. 
The Hunger Coalition d.onates all m?n.ey fr?m the fast, without deductions for admmtstrattve expenses, to relief orsaniza!ions overse:ts, as well as agencies dealmg w1th hunger m the South Bend area. These organizations have been well researched and have been found to use donated money efficiently and effectively. In examining these relief agencies, the Coa­lition's Research Committee not only gathers information from the agencies themselves, but also seeks advice from othe~ sources, .including individuals who have been m the Th1rd World 
Besides its fund-raising and awareness-butld­ing purposes, the fast further serv~s the end of informing stucents that they can si:tll be well off while consuming less. 
The fast runs September 26 through December 
12. Sign-ups are in all the dorms on Wednesday and Thursday of this week from 11 a.m. to 1 
p.m. and 4 to 6 p.m., and a representative of the Hunger Coalition will be there to help an.swer any questions or give additional info~matto~. Off-campus students with meal plans mvolvmg lunch can also pledge, and they are asked to stop in any dorm lobby to do so. I thank you for your concern and cooperation. 
Mary Ann Harris 


P. 0. Box Q
/ 
just as good 
to receive ... 
sometimes 
Dear Editor: 
We have all been told that it is better to give than to receive. There are times, however, when we may find that there is a good side to receiving, in the same spirit of charity as the old saying. This past Labor Day Weekend, the members of. the Arnold Air Society were gtven the chance to experience that good side. 

The Arnold Air Society is a social service organization affil­iated with the Air Force ROTC program. The squadron of Arnold Air here at Notre Dame is the Benjamin D. Foulols Squadron, of which I am a member. We committed our­selves to taking up a campus­wide collection for the ] erry Lewis Muscular Dystrophy Tel­ethon. This seemed a good idea, but there was some hesitation over having to go door-to-door asking for money. I was assigned to collect from Morrissey, which has never looked quite so huge to me as it did Sunday evening. I think that those who collected from the other dorms felt the same way I did. It is a credit to the students of Notre Dame that 
such concern and hesitation were ill-founded. Most sru­dents gave willingly of what money they had left .after buying books and supphes. Some gave more than was expected. 
This generosity enabled us to contribute more than $690.00 to the telethon in the name of our squadron a~d in the name of the University. It also made collecting more pleasa~t th~n anticipated. We appreCiate th1s generosity not only because of the amount collected, but be­cause it helped us discover that sometimes tt is just as good to receive as it is to give. 
Charles A. Wood 
admimstration of either instirurion. 
Editorial Board 
The news is reported as. accuratr:ly ~nd as objectively as poss1ble. Ednonal~ Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Features Editor .......· K. Conndly represem the opin10n of a majorit~ of Managing E~ttor ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor ........ Doua Chc!stian 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commemanes, Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales §eons Ediwr ...........Mark Perry 
opinions and ktters are the ~iews ?f Senior Copy Editor : ... .Mike. Onufr* The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space ts avail­Executive News Editor ....Malee Lcwts Business Manager .....St~ve O~d newspaper published by students of able to all members of the community, News Eclitor . . . . . . . . . . . . Mark Rust Production Manager . •• Ttm Sulbvan 
_The Observer_ 
A 

the Untversity of Notre Dame and and the free e'xpression of varyin.g News Editor .......... .Mike Shields Saint Mary's College. I~ .does not opinions on campus, through letters, ts Saint Mary's Editor . : .... Ellen Bpddy Advertising Manager .......Bob R':'dy necessarily reflect the pohc1es of the encouraged. •St. Mary's News Edttorf ..\ M. ~rassil Controlkr ...........Kevm Manton 
-............. , ...-......................................· 
.................. --·~-· .. --·.;;; ;'.. -.·~. *'· .. ~·.:.·~-.: ~ •.•••... 
.. .............. -.... • • .... • ..,.•••••.. ••• ..j,·...·,·-"····.....>f•..-,.;• .,:""'····· ...::·· ....-.."..~.-................ '!-....... ' ........ ' • .. •••
• •. ~~·:~... -,. ....... •.•.·-••••t,__._• .,_._-..-~··· ... "' ... -. . . ' . ' .• 
.· 





The-Observer Extra 
Activities Night Guide 

Judo Club 
''The NOtre Dame ] udo Club is moving ahead this year and expanding their course offerings to better meet the needs and wants of the Notre Dame commun­
1
ity,'' Head Coach Curt Hench stated. Three levels of instruction will be offered. 
The fust level of instruction will consist of conditioning and self-defense techniques alone. 
The second level, the core of the Judo Club's program, will be an introduction to all aspects of judo. The student will be introduced to judo throws and mat tech­niques; some of the back­ground and philosophy of Judo; and will be involved in some Judo Club activities, includmg: hosting several judo tournaments and oper­ating a concession stand at one of the home football games. 
The third level is for t:1e avid judo competitior. Emphasis will be on con­ditioning and tournament techniques. Beginners are welcome. 
Ski Team 
The Notre Dame Ski Team is a club sport open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. They race primarily in Northern Mich­igan against teams from Michigan, Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio in the Midwest Collegiate Ski Association (MCSA) of which we are the 1978 defending champions. 
The bulk of the season begins with time trials at a locill ski area (near Kala­mazoo) the fust 'Wednesday night of the second sem­ester. The regular season begins the following week­end with the first race, and continues with weekend races through February. 
Right to Life 
Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life is interested in the protection of the lives of the unborn. This student group works in four areas: education, politics, publicity, and liturgics. 
The group attempts to educate the ND-SMC com­munity about abonion by stimulating their interest in abonion and its legal status. Right to Life keeps abreast of changes in the political scene regarding abortion and 
makes  its  views  known  to  
political leaders. By  publicizing  Right  to  

Life activities here as well as across the nation, Right to Ue hopes to ~ain suppon and assistance ili its effons to restore the unborn childs right to live. Right to Life sponsors special liturgical services offered for the res­toration of the sanctity of life. 
This year effons will con­tinue in opposition to the abortion chnic opened last spring in South Bend. Attempts will be made through legal channels as well as -piciCeting. ND-SMC Right to Life welcomes mem­bers concerned about those less able to help them­selves--the unborn. 
Head Start 
Head Stan is a "olunteer program that offers a "head stan'' to children 3-6 years old who come from low­income families in the South Bend area. Volunteers help the children in art, rading, and other activities which either the teacher or the volunteer can plan. 
OBUD 
Ombudsman--a respon­sible org_aniza~ion that gets the job done. Some of the things that were done last year include: . --Compiling and publishing a university resource manual (a "Who's Who" of Notre Dame). --Operating an information horline open 74 hours each week. --Providing a complaint ser­vice receptive to the wants and neeas of the Notre Da~e-Saint Mary's com­mumty. --Staffing the bank at Mardi Gras. --Overseeing_ student body and class officer elections. --Conducting "Operation Brainstorm'' (an opportunity for students to contribute ideas for the betterment of the Notre Dame community). --Ombudsman was qu1te busy last year, and this year, iwth an added emphasis on the complaint service, it will be busier than ever. Ombudsman is a respon­sible, hard-working organi­zation that needs respon­sible, hardworking people. 
AFROTC 
While the AFROTC iS 
' observed as a formal military organization, much of the interaction that occurs is on an informal basis. Still stressing, however, the mil­itary training of the indiv­idual, the corps prepares the cadet for a productive life in the US Air Force. The corps holds its own athletic com­petition, social dinners and balls. They also work in dose cooperation with the Arnold Air Society and Angel Flight. 
College Republicans 
The Notre Dame College Republicans are a ~roup of students who identify with the Republican Party and seek constructive involve­ment in the political process. Through their activities they strive to stimulate interest and encourage panicipation in the numerous campaign events at all levels of govern­ment. They also invite speakers, publish a monthly newsletter and hold issue debates and training sem­inars in grassroots organi­zation. They balance their year round schedule with community service projects and social gatherings. 
Lacrosse Club 
The Notre Dame LaCrosse Club is the LaCrosse team that represents the Univer­sity in Midwest LaCrosse competition. The team is a member of the Midwest LaCrosse Club Association and its schedule includes teams from Michigan, Michi­gan State, Purdue, Chicago, Bowling .. Green and Ohio State. The team plays both club and varsity teams. 
The club has an A and B team, each having their own schedules of 14 and 7 games. 
While many of the players have had experience playing 

-LaCrosse in bigh school, the majority of the team members learned to play at Notre Dame. As a club, the team is always looking for new mem­bers and hosts a clinic each fall to instruct interested students on the basics of the game. 
Crew 
The Notre Dame Rowing 

Club is a co-ed sporting ·activity which is admin­istered entirely by students. Otherwise known as the Notre Dame Crew, the dub fields men's and women's varsity, junior varsity, and novice crews. The novice crews consist of those persons who have never rowed before. 
The crew competes inter­collegiately and travels to major regattas in Madison, Boston, and Philadelphia. 
Men's Volleyball 
Men's Volleyball Club is a new organization which will allow for a regular schedule of play with dubs in the South Bend area. Tourn­aments are held on week­ends withing driving dis­tance. There are team entrance fees to participate in the area tournaments. 

In addition, court time will be scheduled for practice in the Rock and the Angela Facility. The organization is an effort to allow men at Notre Dame the chance to play organized volleyball, !lnd will h<?pefully develop mto a growmg spon at ND througli the near future. 
AIESEC 
The International Assoc­
iation of Business and Econ­
omics Students (AIESEC) is 
a dynamic organization 
which operates an inter­
national exchange of intern­
ships in 56 countries world­
wide. Through this ex­
change of students who par­
ticipate in internships at the 
management level in a 
foreign country, A IE SEC 
seeks to aid in the social and 
economic development of the 
world, and to promote inter­
national understanding and 
cooperation. 
To the student, AIDSEC is 
a challenge to d(:velop his or 
her leadership and manage­
ment skills, both throu~h 
participation in an internshlp 
overseas, and in the O,Per­
ation of the local committee 
here on campus. 
Through AIESEC the 
student can participate in the 
business world, develop high 
level contacts, travel to· 
regional and national 
AIESEC conferences, and. 
meet top students from cam­
puses across the country. 
AIESEC wants students who 
are interested m their 
careers, who will take the 
initiative and ·challenge 
themselves. 
ASCE 
The Student Chapter of the American Society of Civil En~ineers provides oppor­tumties for mteractions with professors, fellow students, and professiona engineers brought in from all over the world and makes ASCE membership a must for the serious prospective engineer. Weekly activities frange from career planning nights to canoe races--plus a healthy dab of partying. 
Marketing Club 
The Notre Dame Market­ing Club is an organization designed to bring together interested faculty, students, and business persons in an informal atmosphere. 
Among the dub's major activities are the Paul D. Gilber Lecture Series; sever­al smokers each semester; one field trip per semester; and participation in the Michiana Area MarketingDay. 
Dues ~e $5.00 per year 
I 
and entitle members--who need not be marketingI•majors~-~0 all the benefits :and pnvdeges of the dub, : lnterestea students should \sign up at Activities Night. 
Karate Club 
The N.D. Karate Club is a 
student run organizatioQ 
with the prupose of teaching 
practical self-defense tech­
niques • along with manial 
arts trainiqg, for beginners 
to advancea students. The 
club has a 'sixth degree 
black-belt master instructqr 
as well as severl student 
black-belt instructors. 

The major emphasis of the 
training program is given to 
those who have had little or 
no self-defense training. 

However, for the more ad­
vanced student there is an 
intercollegiate fighting team 
available. Interested stu­
dents should vis tit the club's 
booth at Activities Night. 
·Angel Flight 

Angel Flight is a campus community service organ­ization, sponsored by the Air Force ROTC, but not ex­clusively composed ofl cadets. Angel Flight is co-ed 1 and works with the Corvilla j Home for the Retarded and for various South Bend·Com-l munity Service organization, 1 such as: Drive for Muscular Dystrophy, American Cancer ' Society, American Heart Fund and others. Social activities are also included in the Angel Flight program, ranging from a spaghetti dinner to pre-game smokers to Bi-Area and National Conclaves. 
Amateur .Radio Club· 
The Notre Dame Amateur 
Radio· Communications 
Club is an organization of 
students interested in 
amateur "Ham" radio com­
munications and I or elec­
tronic:s. The club owns and 
operates an amateur radio 
station for the use of its 
members. 

. Licensing classes and 
transmitting eq_uipment are 
available to mterested 

students, as well as an 
OJ?ponunity to make friends 
Wlth some of the other radio 
and electronics nuts on 
campus. Among some of the 
club s activites are radio 
communication, contesting, 
radio and electronics work 
and licensing classes. 

Anyone interested in radio Ior electronics may join, and 
the club offers a program which orients itself to all ' levels of interest, including the; beginner. 
i 



I I 
r"' 
, 
,r 
,
,
, ,' 
~ 
r 
,r 

.~ ·-·.:-... 

The-Observer Extra 
Monday, September 10, 1979 ~page 6 
.• 

Stepan Center Map 
~·­
... ~­

Each grou.P named has a table at Activtties Ni~ht. Each group is asked to begm setting up at 5:30p.m. this afternoon at Stepan Center. Please do not leave any booth unmanned ~uring the course of the even­mg. 
In order to fmd each organ­ization, everyone is asked to bring this diagram along to Stepan Center tonight. 
Everyone is urged to attend Activities Night, which .will run from 7 p.m.-midnight. Activities Night in Stepan Center is sponsored by the freshman onentation commit­tee. 

Stage  
84 72  73  85  86 74 ,  79 78 77 76 75  

66 65 64 63 62
67 
61

68 69 70 71 
58 

55 56 57 
~Information 

1. 
Sr. Marita 's 

2. 
American Cancer Society 

3. 
Upward &und 

4. 
Councilfor the Retarded 


J. CILA 
6. 
Volunteer Action Center 

7. 
Volunteers for St. Mary's Convent 

8. 
Head Start 

9. 
Right to Life 

10. 
World Hunger Coalition 

11. 
InPIRG 

12. 
Morning Side Nursing 

13. 
United Comm. Acting Now 

14. 
Red Cross 

15. 
Manasa Volunteers 

16. 
Big Bros/Big Sisters 

17. 
Children's Dispensary 

18. 
N. Indi'?na State Hospital & Devel. Disabi'li'ties Center 

19. 
NSHP 

20. 
Roor & Euchre Club 


21. LAPEL 
22. 
AVIDD 

23. 
Gamer's Anonymous 

24. 
CANCO 2J. FCA 


26. 
Bai'lly Downwind Alliance 

27. 
N.D. Histoncal Society 

28. 
Japan Club 

29. 
ND · Texas Club 



UJ 
........ 
I . 
~· 


.:.. 
' 

. : : . 
J9. American Chemical Socie" 
60. International Leadershtp 
Institute ·, 61. Men's Volleyball Team 
62. 
Waterpolo Club 

63. 
W eightlifting Club 


64. 
]udO Club 6J. TaeKwonDo--Karate Club 


66. 
Lacrosse Club 

67. 
N.D. BicJ.cle Club 


68. 
Union oj ND Gymnasts 

69. 
ND-SMC Racquetball Club 

70. 
Bengal Bout &xing Club 

71. 
Pep Rally Club 

72. 
Sltldent Managers 


73. 
ND Sky Diving Club 

74. 
ShTeam. 7J. Angel Flight 



76. 
Celtic Society 

77. 
Debate Counci'l 


78. 
ND Photography Club 

79. 
ND-SMC Young Democrats 

80. 
College Republicans 


82. 
ND String Collecting Club 

83. 
Hamtlton/Pasley Fan Club 

84. 
Arts & Letters Engineers BJ. ND-SMC Collegiate Choir 


86. Jungian Archetypael Society 
30. 
N.D. Student Club ofLong Island 

31. 
Washington D.C. Club 

32. 
People of'Praise 

33. 
St. Francis Shop 

34. 
Lutheran Campus Ministry 3J. Campus Cntsade for Christ 


36. 
Amnesty International 

37. 
AIESEC 

38. 
Pre-Law Society 

39. 
Girl Scouts 

40. 
Management Club 

41. 
Marketing Club 

42. 
Finance Club 

43. 
Math Club 

44. 
Knights ofColumbus 4J. · Alpha Phi Omega 


46. Celtic Society 
47. Arts & Letters Student Adt~t'sory Counci'l 
48. 
Science Quarterly 

49. 
Tech Review JO. Scholastic Jl. Dome J2. Ombudsman J3., Student Union 


54. An Tostal J5. Student Government 
56. 
Student Government 

57. 
Observer 

58. 
ASME 



The Observer Extra Moitday. September 10, 1979 ~page 7 
r= ··---'11
l,.._==:=======~==::::;=~========::::::::;==;::;::=::::;:;:::::=====·=:i~ 
. business and to keep them 'to work with spons; student tion or individual wishuig iof'
Logan. 
informed (on its current life, seniors, events or or-address the Notre Dame
I 

developmehts. _ganizations, putting in as campus community may
BCAC 

Each year, forums, field . much time as they desire. chan~l information; 2) a
Center trips, and various programs The type of work usually coordmator of hall social, are presented in order for ir_lVo!ves writing copy, de-acacdetnic, athletic or com-black students in the School The Black Cultural Ans sigmng layouts aqd taking munity service activities; and 
The Council for the Re­
tarded (Logan) is now cele­of Business Administration Center (BCAC) is the black pfiotos. The Dome office is 3) a! spokesman for all stu­brating its eleventh year to meet and become student organization on located on the third floor of dents with reference to uni-working with the mentally acq_uainted with people _from camp~s d~voted to assisting LaFortune and the phone is .versi~ administrative poll-handicapped children and various areas of the busmess all mmonty students deal 7524. des and regulations." adults of the South Bend world. This allows them to with the changes that occur "In recognizing ourselves 
community. Volunteers help acquire vital knowledge and in the transiuon to college as the most representative
Bt•g 'St.Sters/
the kids enjoy and develop information about what's life. In addition to constant ·body on comeus, we feel it is skills in activities such as happening with respect to surveillance of minority ·Broth.erS our responsibility to make 
thetr particular major, status on all levels and the known our concerted viewsswimming, ans and crafts, 
basketball, music and soft­whether it be Accountmg, ~estion of human ri~hts, B'ig B hers · /B' . on'·li£ matters concerning hall
rot ig Sisters is d · · · · 
ball. The core of the Council Finance, Management, or t e BCAC strives to ai the a nationwide rogram de-e an to mmate appropn-
Saturday marketing. academic, commumil and · d b8h · late action in accordance with 
lies in the recre­Sifne to esta is meamng-th · " 
ersonal growth of its mem-fu 1 · h' 1 ese Views.
ation period, which runs one on one re auons ips Th ·1 · · f 
from 9 to 11:30 a.m., begin­&ers. . . between responsible volun-, e councl ' consistmg o 
The Center, located on the d d · il d the presidents of all N'otre
ning in mid-September. teers an un erpnv ege · 'D 'd h 11 
Many opportuniues for vol­second floor of LaFortune children. It involves a com-arne resi ence a s, meets unteering are also available Student Center, is open to all mitment by a volunteer of •once a week throughout th~SWE students. It is intended to time and friendship with !School year. ·
during the week. 
provide students with a con-children, · who, for various ===:::;:::========.
The Society of Women 
venient area for study, an reasons, are not receiving 
·,Mar.-athon

Engineers (SWE) . is an 
informal meeting place for the usual attention and guid-Historical organization offering expos­cultural exchange and a ance within their own family s • • 
ure to the opportumties and 
gathering place for relax-situation. 
ooety

problems today's women ation and good company. BB/BS volunteers range in 
Society 
encmmter when entering this age from 18 and beyond 
The purpose of the Notre :
The Notre DAme Historical t~aditi'onally male profes­while kids go from 6 to 16. A tDame Marathon Society is to'
Society is a group of students Sion. volunteer's commitment promote recreational run-!
and faculty who are inter­SWE S,Ponsors a variety of involves spending some time 
ning among students,
ested in history. The pur­activities, including with their match at least once 1 
faculty and staff at the I
pose of the club is to promote brunches, wine and cheese AIChE a week for at least a year's 
University. · 
a sense of solidarity between patties, speakers, and an time. In most cases, the
The Student Chapter of The group will meet at the i
the students and the faculty. annual banquet, in addition relationship which develops
the American Institute of steps of the Admipistration '· 
Meetings will consist of to regular meetings, which is enl·oyable and rewarding informal talks and discus­enable members to meet Chemical Engineers (AIChE) for al parties concerned and Building on Wednesdays at· sion, films and social func­with students and professors is an organization formed to generally lasts well beyond approxtmately may 4:30 run p.m. 
Panicipants at
tions. of all the engineermg fields. promote the professional the one year limit. 
development of Notre The BB/BS of Notre Dame whatever distance and pace::::::::::::::=======' The Notre Dame chapter, 
which acquired its national Dame's chemical engineer­and St. Mary's iis the campus they wich. Organized races · 
to be held at SMC are .
charter only two years ago, ing majors. Active ranic­group which coordinates the
Leadership 
boasts a growing member­ipation in AIChE wil com­BB/BS program on both presently under consid­plement the student's campuses. The group pro­.eration.
ship which includes some
Institute academic training. for a pro­vides all expense paid activi­
Saint Mary's students and 
fessional career m chemical ties, transportation, and in­also some male Notre DameThe International Student engineering by providing formation to assist the volun­Studentstudents.
Leaership Institute is de­
o~portunities for contact . teers in the program. 
signed to develop an under­
wtth industry and fellow Union i . 
·r.
standing of basic leadership 
AIChE members. .

Young 
Student Union is the
and communication skilfs 
AIChE activities include
through carefully structured -~Wo~en's service:. and social provide.rprese~tations ~ s~ers on campus, operating inde­
expenences. 
Democrats from mdustry, field trtps to pendently of student govern-The small grou.P process is 
view the operations ofindus­
ment. .

Tt:ack
used to experience self­The ND-SMC Young trial plants and; laboratories Activities. and setvices
knowledge, growth, aware­
Democrats were orgamzed to and also opportunities to The Notre. Dame Wome~'s 
spon5~ by the Union in­ness and perception of self, 
pursue the goals of the interact with faculty and Track/Cross Country 'Team clude a plant sale, movies,others, and situations, self­Democratic p~!Ctf, to assist in fellow classmates on an
confidence, acceptance, pos­campaigns forDemocratic informal, sociallevel. iS a club spon · and its HomecOming, the So.Pho­
members compete in inter­more Literary Festival,itive thinking, and the power candidates, to bring political­collegiate a:oss co~try in lectures, concens, . Welcome ·of suppon. College students ly oriented speakers into the the fall and track m the Week, patties, dance and ' 
are trained to serve as facil­Notre Dame commwiity and _spring. drama events, the Collegiate 
Alpha.Phi

itators of small _groups con­to offer members of the All~ undergra~~ate women are welcome to JOlfi. Jazi Festiyal, free outCloorsisting mainly of high school Notre Dame community the Most meets are on weekends concerts, the idwest Bluesstudents. opponunity to take pan in 
Omega 

and they ·are almost exclu; . Festival and the Studentdie political process. 
sively "away" at colleges Players.
In the last they have Al.Pha Phi Omega is a and universities throughout. The various commissionscompaigne for candidates . serv1ce fraternity. On the 
running for local and state Notre Dame campus, it Indiana, Michigan, and open to new members in­Ohio. ·dude the social, service,'
AVIDD offices as well as those functions as a club composed 
running for national office. . of men and women. Activ­Cultural arts, and academic Last year's activities were ities include volunteer work .commissions. highlighted by a speech by on the ND campus and in the 
AVIDD is a sincere effon Bill Bradley, former New 
South Bend area, fund drives 
to offer helpful assistance to York Knick's star and candi­
ISO
for various charities, the
the Nonhern Indiana State date for the U.S. Senate from 
campus blood drive during
Hospital staff in their thera­New ] ersey. Meetings are 
the year, and the Ugly Man 
The inte~ational Student
putic duties with the devel­held once a month. 
Contest in the Spring. 

Organization is composed of NSHPopmentally handicapped 
Freshmen men and 
approximately 400 studentschildren who are pauents 
women are able to assume an 
from over 68 differentthere. The group members 
active role from the begin-
volunteer at hours that are countries. They host cultural The Neighborhood Study
CILA 
'·
and social activities, and Help Program (NSHP) is ' convenient to them. 
nin-!e ARnold Air Society is 
invite any Notre Dame or involved with tutoring the ·The volunteers as
act an extracurricular activity
The Community for the Saint Mary's stllldent to join. school children of Southassistants to the therapists 
within Air Force ROTC. It is 
and are involved either in International Law Apostolate Bend, primarily those in the 
a social/ service organization
physical contact with (CILA) offers its members a elementary grades. NHSP is 
whose activities include
patients or may offer verbal combination of South Bend the lar_ges~ volunteer service 
projects for the colfununity of
mstruction depending on the community service work, orgamzation on campus,
South Bend, the University, 
;HPC
program. Programs mclude: education in justice and t . with about 300 Notre Dame
and the ROTC detachment.
physical therapy, speech Third World concerns, and a and St. Mary's students 
. The organization is open to The Hall Presidents 
therapy, and recreation ther­challenge for continual all interested Air Force Council (HPC) is, as describ­working as tutors in 17 
apy. Christian growth. schools and neighborhood
ed in the HPC constitution,'JtOTC cadets. 
Summer projects provide centers throughout the South 
''... an open, service-oriented 
an op.Portunity for in-depth Bend area.
organization, independent of 
experience in areas such as There are a variety of
Business 
all other Student Govern­Appalachia, New Orleans, Dome ment organizations, with the times available for anyone 
Tucson, and Saltillo, Mexico. interested in being a tutor:
propose of promoting the
Students With approximately 75 The Dome, the university well-being of the Notre from a single class period student and faculty mem-yearbook, is run entirely by twice a week to two hours in 
Dame campus community
The Notre Dame league of ' hers, CILA masses, retreats, the late afternoor or early
, the students with funding and 'working for the better­
business students •is an social events, and news­1provided through_ tuition. ment of hall life. " evening once a week. All 
organization that attempts to letters unify the organization :They stan work .m the fall ''In keeping with our pur­transponation is provided by prepare today's black creating ·an atmosphere of 1 and work to about March 15. pose we consider it our duty the (>rogram. . No .Previous students for their future mutual challenge and friend­The only prerequisite is in­,to function as: 1) a center tutormg expenence 1s neces­entrance to the world of ship_.. ,terest. Persons may choose Ithrough w~ich any <?rg~iza-1 sary. 
3, 

The Observer Extra Monday, September 10, 1979-page 8 
Pre-Law Society 
The Notre Dame Pre-Law Society is· an active campus organization that affords members the opportunity to become better acquainted with legal professions. Guest S{>eakers, newsletters and vanous activities allow students to exmine career Boals while also aidin~ the mdividual in the selecnon of appropriate law schools or areas of study. 
Membershtp is open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. Members may sign up at the ftrst organizational meeting at activities night or anytime during the school year. 
PSA 
Pi Sigma Alpha (PSA) is a national political science honor soctety. The Notre Dame chapter is a small organization devoted to in­vestigating issues and spon­soring acttvides that are of interest to all government majors.• 
PSA offers many benefits to its members: formal and academic activities, ranging froma 'careers night' to lec­tures, and more informal social activities, including get-togethers at professor' homes, pizza and beer din­ners at local restaurants and a hot dog stand during 
, football weekends. Participation in the nation­al organtzation requires the enforcement of scholastic membership criteria and col­lection of an initiation fee. 
Tech Review 
The Tech Review as the magazine serving engineer­ing students at Notre Dame. Students from all colleges are invited to assist in its publication. The magazine contains both tech and non­tech articles concerning en­gineering devices at Notre Dame and in industry. 
Celtic Society 
The Notre Dame/St. Mary's Celtic Society is an organiza­tion whose members are interested in the music, cul­ture, and people of Ireland. Throu_gh films, speakers, and Insh performers at our meetings and parties we develop this interest and have a good time. One does not have to be Irish to join. 
Minnesota Club' 
The Minnesota Club of Notre Dame is comprised of all the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students from Minn­esota. The club provides social and service functions. Socifll funcions throughout the year include tailgaters at' 
home football games, parties skating parties, barbecues, and tailgaters during the summer at the Minnesota Kicks soccer games. 
They also provide a direc­tory to all dub members of all club members and of those with cars. This facili­tates members in finding rides home for breaks. The dub provides a baggage truck service in the fall and spring to transport mem­bers' gear back and forth to school. There is no member­ship fee. 
Rugby 
Notre Dame Rugby was 
established in the fall of 
1961. Past dub president 
Mike Roohan states that 
what begain "as a bunch of 
inexperienced rookies has 
evolved into a group of 
precision rugby players who 
face only the tou8hest teams 
and ·participate m the most 
competitive tournaments.'' 
This year the club will face 
teams in the Midwest Rugby 
Union. No experience is 
necessary to become a 
member. Practices are held 
at 4:15 every Tuesday, 
Wednesday, and Thursday 
behind Stepan Center. 
The Observer 
The Observer is an inde­
pendent student newspaper 
published Monday through 
Friday by the students of 
Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's. All editorial, man­
agement, reporter and staff 
positions are filled by 
students. 
There are openings for 
writers in the news, features 
and sports departments; 
photographers; persons 
tnterested in lay-out and 
design; typists; and ad sales­
men. 
The staff operates out of 
the third floor ofLaFortune. 
No experience is necessary 
for any area. 
Chi Epsilon 
Chi Epsilon is a national honor society for Civil Engin­eering students. The Notre Dame Chapter of Chi EP.silon is maintamed primardy to recognize the achievements of outstanding Civil Engin­eering students, but the society also provides various services to eht C.E. depart­ment and the College of Engineering. 
Chess Club 
The purpose of the Notre Dame Chess Club is to develop and encourage chess activity among the members of the Notre Dame commun­ity. . The dub meets begin­mng ate 1 p.m. in the cardroom adjoining the Rathskellar in LaFortune Student Center. 
Certain dub members will offer instruction and advice regarding chess strategy and tactics. Other activities will include a dub tournament, speed chess, chess book reviews, and possibly a trip to the Intercollegiate Chess Championship. 
process ts a personal contact v,:ith someone who will offer 
Gymnastics
special help, guidance, and
Management 
most of all, support. Volun­teers will be asked to help 
Club

and test the child in reading, 
Club 

math, and vocabulary skills. -The Notre Dame Manage­Various dass trips will be 
The purpose of the Gym­ment Club serves two planned to places of interest nastics Club is to 'tive inter­functions. Primarily, the such as an airport or mu­
ested male and female
club is a vehicle by which seum. 
students an opportunity tobusiness majors meet and There will also be a chance develop their gymnasticsinteract with the .. business to become better acquainted skills. Training starts at thefaculty outside of the class­with all the children at beginning of the year. As a room. This is accomplished special events sch as Christ­
new, young team, we com­by keggers, smokers, and mas parties or participating peted for the first time t\11tJ
ptcnics. Secondly, the club in buying groceries at the years ago. All students whooffers students the change ·to "make-believe" store. 
enjoy t~e spon: of gymnastics
interact with prominent 
are tnvtted to JOlD.

businessmen by way of field trips and guest speakers. The club is open to all 
Circle K

business majors and those 
Chapel

interested in management. 
C~cle K is. a _community sc:rvtce orgamzatton that is dtrectly affiliated with 
Choir 

Kiwanis International. The
Tutoring 
Notre Dame club is a grow­ing club of individuals who Notre Dame Chapel Choir Sisters Marita and whole heartedly believe in is a 60-voice mixed ensemble 
Evodine have begun a hu­co~s~r~ctive fun. Last year's which a~sists. at all majormanitarian crusade to correct 
acttvtttes ranged from swim­campus .h~~rgtes. The major the problems of the under athons to conventions and responstbtltttes of the choir 
privilieged child by helping taking underprivile8ed kids are singing at the Sundaythem "catch-up" to their to the dunes to visittng other 10:30 a.m. Mass and 7:15 peers with respect to educa­colleges around the state to p.m. vespers service in Scred tion. The children have discuss today's problems. Heart Church. Rehearsals 
failed in the public school are at 5 p.m. Tuesday and system and need some type Wednesday, 6:30 p.m. of extra help. Thursday and 10 a.m. 
An imPortant part of this Sunday. 




The Observer_ 
needs 


YOU! 
Come to booth 57 tonight. 
We need business, production, 
and layout st~ff as well as news, feature, sports writers. 
Check us out I I 
-----·------------------------­
-~ 

"''I 
Monday, September 10, 1979-pa,ge 9


Features 
'Second City' returns 
Taking satirical swings at every­thing from politics to the singles' bar scene, a six-member cast from 'Sec­ond City,' Chicago's leading comedy troupe, delighted a capacity crowd in St. Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium last Saturday night. $2 and $3 tickets for the two-hour performance sold out earlier in the week. 
Accompanied by Ruby Streak on the piano, and a minority of simple props, the roupe (Sandra Bogan, Bob Clemens, Sandy Davenport, Joe Doyle, John Kapelos, and Lance Kinsey), zeroed 1n on Chicago for some good-natured lampooning. In an opening skit, a building inspector commends Mrs. O'Leary for the safe condititions of her barn. Later, the football coach for the University of Chicago laments how the college, a former "major football power in this country,'' has gone downhill after ''winnmg a few cheap Nobel prizes,'' and attempts to assembel a new team. His efforts fail when three students--music, theology, and math majors respectively--show up for practice, and reduce field strategies to a jumble of infinite lines and ellipsoids. 
The highlight of the "Chicago skits" was Bogan's vivid portrayal of Mayor Jane Bryne discovering a lounging group of emJ?loyees in the Department of Sanitation office. As the idlers spring to work under the "mayor's" tcy gaze, "Jane" croons: How to handle a city . .. "There's a way," said the wise old man. "A way known by every mayor, almost, Since the whole big Machine began . . ''So I said to him, ''Dear boss, please tell me, Do I threaten or cajole or plead? Must I do all that George Dunne tells me?" And he smtled and said, ''No, indeed! How to handle a city . .. just smtle and give 'em the finger." 
A variety of light skits were then presented, with characters ranging from disgruntled cowboys to a boo­hearted "Denny's" chef. One of the funniest briefs of the evening con­cerned the harassment of a young lady on a Greyhound bus by the slack-jawed, bow-tied bumpkin in the next seat. After an off-key rendition of "By the Time I get to Pheonix," he badgers her with requests for cigar­ettes, informs her he knows a leper who can touch her tounge to her nose, and speculates whether the Grim Reaper has the face of a cow. 
In another skit, a hyperactive blood bubblegummer seeks to entertain a solitary resident of a nursing home by performing a frenzied version of "Down by the Old Mill Stream" in five-part harmony--by herself. The senior citizen listens impassively, then dryly observes, "Kmda' like listenin' to the three faces of Eve." 1 
While outwardly light, some of the following presentations proved to have undercurrents of dark humor, exposing, for example, how loneli­ness can be supressed under a facade of smiles. "Hi, I'm Mr. Right," a suave dude informs a woman in a singles' bar. Acouple in a motel room at the end of a no-strings-attatched holiday together (I thought the water bed was gonna evaporate!'') struggle to hide th~;.r mutual concern for eachother, leave without looking back. The hostess of a radio "yoga" show listlessly swigs beer and exorts her listeners to drink a mixture of fertile eggs and Oil of Olay. "Now wrap you head around your knee,'' she instructs, dragging on a cigar­ette. "Doesn't it feel good?" 
One of the grimmer skits dealt with the helJ?lessness of an artist realizing the futtlity of trying to create and understand his or her essence in an artistic work. In this particular scene, two brothers in a New York bar, sta~gerin~ after straight shots of whtte gram alcohol, drunkenly re-act the deaths of Dylan Thomas, Ernest Hemingway, Virginia Woolf, Sylvia Plath ("like a chocolate chip cookie") 
and finally, that of Jesus Christ. 
Social institutions don't escape, either. In "Statesville Prison, Death Row," Rocko, a cynical, T-shirted, jeaned inmate, observes to his younger cellmate "Boy, there's so much you can do on Death Row. . . you can walk around your spacious cell. . . sit down on your spacious pallet. . . going nuts in here!" Just then a pPison guard strolls by and taunts Rocko's companion that a ''Presto frybaby'' has been set up for him, and that he will die within the day.
1 
"You're a lot friendlier since you got the lobotomy, "Rocko spits at the guard. Then, to cheer his friend, he agrees to play him a farewell song on the bars of their cell--"1 won't let you go down with any Barry Manilow crap"--and proceeds to tap out a rousing chorus of "Chopsticks." 
The finale for the evening proved to be a comical social comment, with a South American band trilling a tribute to the test-tube baby: 
Bet ee:S the new way to go-­

Canceled 'Kaz' wins 
Emmy Awards occur 
Los Angeles [AP] -·Ron Leibman of the canceled "Kaz" and Mariette Hartley, the bride of "The Incredible Hulk," were hailed as best actor and actress in a drama series at the 31st Emmy Awards last ni~ht. 
"Here it is Sunday mght and 'Kaz' isn't pre-empted," said Leibman with a note of irony about the CBS series' rocky career. The show failed to earn a renewal because of poor ratings. 
Ruth Gordon of ''The Sugar Mama'' segment of "Taxi" and Carroll O'Connorof"All in the Family" won as ~est actress and actor in a comedy senes. 
"Lou Grant," which won the high­est number of Emmy nominations, was selected outstanding drama series, but lost out in all other catefories except for Michele Gal­lery's writing of the "Dying" seg­ment. 
"Taxi," the raucous glimJ>se of life in a dispatching garage, coflected the Emmy as outstanding. comedy series. 
President Carter appeared live from the White House on the Emmy broadcast to pay tribute to Don Harris, Robert Brown and Bill Stew­art, television newsmen killed on assignment during the past year. 
~:'Their gift to us was knowledge," said the''president, who added: ''In Guyana and Nicaragua .these three men were our witnesses and they were our martyrs.'' The widows of the three men were in the audience. 
For the second straight year, Kristy McNichol scored as supporting act­ress in a drama series -"Family." Stuart Nar~olin, the nefarious Angel Martin of' The Rockford Files," was named best supporting actor in a drama series. 
Old-timer Jackie Cooper was named best director of a single episode in a drama series for "The Piloe· seg­ment of "The White Shadow." 

You ain't got no mama, 
You ain't got no pop, But you test-tube baby, You cream ofthe crop! 
The troupe, booked last April by 
Molly Woulfe 

Mary .El~en Connelly, St. Mary's Commtss10ner for Student Social Activities, will be performing again at Century Center on Sept. 28. For a lot of smiles, and a little more insight, don't miss it. 

''Sec_on~ City'' Pe_rformed this past weekend in 0 'Laughlin Audttonum at Satnt Mary's. [photo by Dave Rumbach] 
Spyro Gyra: Good.fazz 
What would you call a band that plays music that is heard on progres­sive rock stations, adult contemporary stations, sould stations, and public radio's JAZZ FORUM? What do you call a band that puts out a jaz-rock album that goes gold (a rarity)? Incredible? No, call it Spyro Gyra. 
It's hard to believe that a mere year and a half ago this band was readr to throw in the towel. Playing the Buffalo Bar circuit, thinss just weren't happening. But ttme and a newly formed re<;ord company called Infinity that was interested in struggling new acts changed all that. All the band needed was to be heard, something that can be better promotion than all the hype in the world. 
The amazing thing about this album is that only one member of the band appears on all the tracks; sax palyer and co-producer Jay Beckenstein. The band, much like the music, pulls in influences from all areas of modern jazz. The line-up is a mile Ion$ with perfectionist Beckenstein bringmg in whoever was needed to give the pieces the exact feeling and tratment he envisioned. The most notable of the talent ~r~..s~!iiO!J,S on the album are 
~y Mick Mancuso 

the Brecker Brothers, whose influence is especially felt on "Jubilee." ­
The first side is a killer, leading off with hit bound "Morning Dance," winding its way through some of the tastiest jazz-rock around. Especially notable is the upbeat, "Starburst" written by co-founder Jeremy Wall and featuring a slick tenor sax solo by Michael Brecker. In the end it is Beckenstein's sax work that acts as a cohesive and recognizable element in all of the works. Beckenstein, who claims to have gone "from mediocre musician to really good musician just out of sheer experience" shows he can handle it all now, from "Rasul's" mellow tenor sax ramblin~ to "Heliopolis's" heavy duty alto lines. 
Spyro Gyra is not commercial, nor is it formual. It is darn good stuff that crosses many audience lines to form a wide appeal. If that's commercial we 1 need a lot more pf this type of .commercial music. Some peopf~ feel anythin_g that sells more than SO,OOO copies 1s colll{Dercial. Baah! SPrro Gyra' s Morning Dance is a must for the diehard jazz'enthusiast, the 6edae­ling j~st t1;JI'Oed on to j~~.anct ~yone who JUSt likes good coo~· musk. ­
~lliliiMiliil~~~~...~~iiiiiiiiililiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiilliililiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiliilililililiiiiiiiliillili&iiiiiiiiliiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiliil--iiiiiiiiiilil.........:,
... --... ~ ..
.. ......................... ._ 

I 
I 
~ 
The Observer Monday, September 10,-1979 ~ pa~e 10 
U.S. envoy 

Strauss tnakes Mideast swring 

CAIRO EGYPT (AP) · U.S. envoy Robert Strauss began a four-day Mideast swing yester­day seeding to clarify ''fuzzy areas'' unresolved during last week's summit between Presi­dent Anwar Sadat of Egypt and Israili Prime Minister Men­achem Begin. 
Strauss told reporters en route from London to Cairo he also wanted to map out ''what we realistically hope to accom­plich by the end of the year'' in the Palestinian autonomy talks. 
President Carter's special ambassador to the Mideast also said he was adding Richard Scammon, a Washington politi­cal pollster, and unidentified advisers for economic and mili­tary affairs to his staff. 
Strauss said the two-day summit in Haifa between Sadat and Begin appeared to have produced "considerable pro­gress" and enabled the leadc.:ts to develope a "good chemi­stry." · 
Molarity 

"To a fellow like me, a good personal relationship is the most important thing,'' said Strauss, a 60-year-old Texan 
[continued from page 1] 
Hesburgh went on to say that there are roughly one billion hungiy people in the world at present and it is important to come to the realization that this situation need not occur. 
"If present trends continue, an estimated 12 to 15 million children will die unnecessarily of starvation, malnutrition, and disease between now and the year 2000, "said Hesburgh. 
''The worst effects of world hun~er can be eliminated with exist!(!& technology by the year 2000,'' Hesburgh suggested. ''The world today spends 15 billion dollars annually on world develop~ent. If we doubled this figure we could get rid of 
by Michael Molinelli 

THE KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 

Join the OLDEST and LARGEST 
College Council in America Notre Dame Council =ltl477 Visit our booth tonight 
-during Actities Night 
• • ~ • «. • T • • ~ • ,..·.,. • • ,.•.•.•.· .•.• ·-~-· • • ... _ll,"":" t • • ·~·';.
. .t. •.•.•·•·....<llf..•.•.•.• ..... • . . • • . .............. . 
I'M DEPAE!6El> ·•. ALL I WANT IS FOR THE Ha5T BENT/FilL 
61RL. I'VE EVER SEEN 
TD WALX FD6HT INTO MY LIFE 
-and former national chairman of the Democratic Parry.. ''It creates the kind of cltmate I think is best for a settlement.'' 
• • . Hunger 
the effects -of poverty.'' 
In concludmg, Hesburgh stated that the greatest contri­bution students can make is to educate themselves and devel­op a concern so that in the future they will be able to make a substantial contribution to heir, change the world. · 
' You are the first generation with the necessary technology to get rid of the problems of hunger, disease, and illiteracy. The question is, do you have the wtll?" 
Following Hesburgh's speech WHC Coordinator Mike Stegman announced that stu­dents can sign up for the fall semester's fasting program this week. Sign-ups will be conduc­ted in each dorm on Wednesday and Thursday from 11 a.m. to 1 
p.m. and from 4 to 6 p.m. 
Students who fast this year will be giving up lunch instead of dinner on Wednesdays. For each lunch that is given up throughout the semester, the dining hall will donate 75 cents to the WHC. The money will be distributed to various agencies which aid the impoverished. 


PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Bulldlnc 
Attention a Graduating Students 
IN ORDER 'IMAT YOU MAY PLAN FOR SCHEDULED PLACEIIENT ACTIVITIES AND SERVICES, INCLUDING ON·CAIIPUS INTERVIEWS WI'IM EMPLOYERS AND GRADUATE SCHOOL REPRESENTATIVES, THE FOLLOWING HAVE BEEN SCHEDULED: 
AUDit'OattJK--CIJITII POR !!!!!!_ OOLLIG!/DISCIPLIBI COittlfUIIG !DUCATIOII 
MaDUiile. ~loy•ra• 8011-To, . ·' : ... ;.._~1 

Iatervi.Mr Techntqu.a, lllplo:r­emt Outlook, Jeatatrattoa Eaatuertaa and Sctnce 1:00 pa, fuu., Sept. 11 aod lip-Up Procedure•, 
q..et'-aDd AMtt.ra Accountancy 7:00 pa, Wad., Sept. 12 
1 Pinaace, Kaoqe.ent, 7:00 p-., 'lbun., Sept. 13 Markettna 
9:00 .!!• Prl., Sept. U1 
Ple~at Bureau Open Hou.a Sept. 11-21, Hooday tbrouah Friday, 8:00 ....4:30 pa. 
Sip-up for f1 n t v.ek Sept. 24-27, Monday~ throuah 'nlureday, 8:00 ..-4:30 pa. of tatervieva 
fJ: JO .., Honday, October 1 and each day followtna according to the acbadule Uated 1n the Plac-at Manual, 1979-80. 
THESE ~WILL BE \£R'I' llf'OI!TNIT IN YOUR CAREER PLANNING AND..,JOB SEARCH. I'IARK YCIUII CALENDAR AND ATIEND. 
Wrestling team 
ROCCOS 

holds meeting 
men's haltstyli~g 

There will be a meeting for all men interested in {·~ining the
at comfortable 

Notre Dame wrest mg team Wednesday at 4 p.m. m room
ptlces 

C-14 of the A.C.C. Details of the wrestling program and the
531 N. ffilchlgan 

schedule for the upcoming year will be discussed. Enter Gate
233-4957 

2. 
--· 
N.D. Ski Team: 
skiers unite! ND!SMC Ski Team: 
Activities Nite Sept. 26 Little Theatre LaFortune 7:00 
········~~-~IIII!II!I!IIIJIIII"I'I"'·····. ~i~Y.Y. ~n ·~-~~~~-!?!)~<:q~.~;-... ,.-.• 

• 
Indoor, outdoor tracksters meet 
All students interested in participating on this year's Notre Dame track team are required to attend a meeting tomorrow (Tuesday), at 4 
p.m. at the~  Athletic  and  
Convocation Center  auditor­ 
IUm.  

..,.. Bearcats 
(continued from page 12) 

broken leg running into Cincy 
goal tender Daryl Jones, who 
was forced to leave the game 
shortly before the end of the 
half. 

The second half brought more 
bruises and, more importantly, 
more bad luck for Notre Dame. 
The Irish seemed to wear their 
opponents down with their con­
stant pressure. Nevertheless, 
their shots did not connect. 
McCurrie was stopped at 
point-blank range early in the 
stanza. Sami KahaJe. found an 
opening after a corner kick, 
only to see the ball hit the 
crossbar. Bill Murphy set up 
Kahale and Kevin Lovejoy on 
separate occasions, only to see 
their efforts gobbled ur by 
reserve Bearcat goalie Bit Mil­
ler. 

In the waning momen~s of th~ 
game, Irish forward M1ke Ma1 
made two passes that would 
have lead to goals on any other 
day, but Miller had the answer 
each time. And that meant 
nothing but frustration for Not­
re Dame 

''We might have. rushed. it a 
bit and we were a little hesnant 
to shoot sometimes, '.Commented 
co-captain Sabitus. "Also, we 
attacked down the middle of the 
field and they just waited for 
us, but nobody let up. We 
should have won. 

"The game was out of control, 
•but we still had our chances.'' · 1 
Sometimes chances don't •·I mean a thing, how~ver---espe­
~ 
: 

f' .. .. 

The Observer-SportsBoard >.. 


(_ 

NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Eat  
w  L  Pet.  OB  
Pittsburgh Montreal  85 81  57 55  .599 .596  1  
St. Louis  76  64  .543  8  
ChicagoPhiladelphia New York  73 71 55  67 71 85  .521 .500 .393  11 14 29  
Wat  
Houston  81  62  .566  
Cincinnati  81  63  .563  Vr  
Los Angeles San Francisco  68 63  75 81  .476 .438  13 18Vr  
San Diego Atlanta  61 55  83 87  .424 .387  20Vz 25%  

Slturdly's l'lllllts New York 3, Pittsburgh 2, 15 Innings Philadelphia 9, Chicago 8 Cincinnati 4, Los Angeles 1 San Diego 9, Atlanta 2 Montreal 7, St. Louis 2 San Francisco 2, Houston 1 
Sundly's results Pittsburgh 6, New York 5 San Diego 4, Atlanta 1 Chicago 15; Philadelphia 2 Los Angeles 3, Cincinnati 1 Montreal 4, St. Louis 1 Houston 4, San Francisco 1 
Mlllldly'a g111111 No games scheduled 
QCCer

( S 
) ,..------------" SUNDAY Clnclnnatl1, Notre Dime 0 Scoring CU-Mike Whiting [Dave Eslick, 3:06 1st. 
Halftime-Clnclnnatl1, Notre Dame 0. Shots on Goal-Notre Dame 25, Cincinnati 9. 
Wednesday Loyola [Chicago] at Notre Dame, 8:00 p.m. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
tat 

·w  L  N.  81  
Baltimore  94  48  .671  
Milwaukee  83  60  .sal  12Vr  
Boston  79  67  .568  14Yr  
New York  77  63  .550  17  
Detroit  '76  68  .528  20  
Cleveland  74  69  .517  21Yr  
Toronto  44  98  .310  51  
Wilt  
California  IKI  64  .556  
Kansas City Minnesota  75 72  67 69  .528 .511  4 6Yr  
TIIXas  71.  72  .497  8Yr  
Chicago Seattle  61 60  82 84  .427 .417  18Yr 20  
Oakland  50  94  .347  30  

Sltunlay'a l'lllllts Baltimore 3, Boston 2 Cleveland 5, Toronto 4 Oakland 2, Chicago 1 New York 5, Detroit 4 Texas 6, Minnesota 2 California 3, Milwaukee 2 Seattle 4, Kansas City 2 
SundiY'S results Detroit 3, New York 1 Baltimore 16, Boston 4 Cleveland 14, Toronto 10 Texas 6, Minnesota 5 Oakland 3-0, Chicago o-7 California 5, Milwaukee 2 Kansas City 3, Seattle 1 
Mondly'spmea Baltimore (D. Martinez 14-12) at Boston (Stanley 14-9), n 
Minnesota (Goltz 13-10 and Erickson 1-9) at Kansas City (Splittorff 13-15 and Gale 9-9), 2, t-n. 
Seattle (Dressier 1-1) at T11xas (Jenkins13-12), n. 
Only games scheduled. 
( OntheAir') 
FOOTBALL Atlanta at Philadelphia, WSJV-TV, Ch. 28., 8p.m. 
··+e. 
l 
) NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
Eat 
W tL T Pel. PF PA Miami 2 'o o 1.1XXl 28 11 Buffalo 110.5005833 New England 1 1 0 .500 69 19 Baltimore 0 2 0 .lXX! 26 43 
N.Y. Jets 0 2 Ol .lXX! 25 31 Clllltnil • 
Cleveland 2 Tjj--0 'tiXXl' 52 46 Pittsburgh 2 o o t.IXXl 1 54 20 Houston 1 1 0 .500 36 65 Cincinnati 0 2 0 .lXX! 24 61 
.Wilt San Diego 2 0 0 1.000 63 26 Denver 1 1 0 .500 19 13 Kansas City 1 1 I o .500 38 21 Oakland 1 1 0 .500 34 47 Seattle 0 2 0 .000 26 52 NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
Dallas  2  0  0 1.000  43  34  
Philadelphia St. Louis  1 1  0 1  . 0 1.000 ·o .500  23 ~  17 36  
Washington N.Y. Giants  1 0  1 2  0 0  .500 .lXX!  54 31  53 50  
Centril  
ChicagoTampa Bay Green Bay  2 2 1  0 0 1  0 ·1.000 32 10 0 '1.1XXl 60 42 0.50013125  

Minnesota 1 1 0 .500 Detroit 0 2 0 .lXX! 
Wilt 
Atlanta 1 0 o ' 1.000 Los Angeles 1 -1 I o .500 New Orleans 0 \ 2 o .000 San Francisco 0 . 2 o .lXX! 
Thursdly's Results Los Angeles 13, Denver 9 
Sundly's RIIUits Buffalo 51, Cincinnati 24 Pittsburgh 38, Houston·7 Chicago 26, Minnesota 7 New England 56, New York Jets 3 Green Bay 28, New Orleans 19 St. Louis 27, New York Giants 14 Washington 27, Detroit 24 Tampa Bay 29, Baltimore 26, OT Cleveland 27, Kansas City 24 Dallas 21 , San Francisco 13 San Diego 30, Oakland 10 Mlaml19, Seattle 10 
35 ~ 40 58 
40 34 30 33 53 68 35 49 

WEEKEND COLLIIE ICOIIIS I
.. 

hit Rutgers 28, Holy Croes o 
111111 Alabama 30, Georgia Tech 6 Clemson 21, Furman 0 
E. Tennessee St. 31, James Madison 0 Florida State 17, S. Mlsslsslppl14 Jackson State 27. Tennessee State 21 Marshall 31, Toledo 14 Maryland 24, VHianova 20 McNeese State 10, S.E. Louisiana 7 Memphis State 14, Mississippi State 13 North Carolina 28, South Carolina 0 North Carolina State 34, East Carolina 20 Presbyterian 21 , Citadel 13 Temple 38, West Virginia 16 Tenn.-Chattanooga 41, W. Kentucky 28 Tulane 33, Stanford 10 VIrginia 31, Richmond 0 VMI 7, William & Mary 3 VIrginia Tech 15, Louisville 14 Wake Forest 30, Appalachian State 23 West Carolina 24, tennessee Tech 7 
Midwest Bowling Green 32, Eastern Michigan 6 Central Michigan 10, Western Michigan 0 Drake 14, New Mexico State 13 Eastern Kentucky 17, Kent State 14 Indiana 30, Iowa 26 Indiana State 28, Wichita State 9 Miami, Ohio 27, Ball State 3 Michigan 49, Northwestern 7 Michigan State 33. Illinois 16 Minnesota 24, Ohio U. 10 Missouri 45, San Diego State 15 Ohio State 31 , Syracuse 8 Oklahoma State 25, North Texas State 7 Purdue 41, Wisconsin 20 Southern Illinois 17, SW Louisiana 7 Youngstown State 33, Illinois State 27 
Soutllweat 
Baylor 20, Lamar 7 · Brigham Young 18, Texas A&M 17 Southern Cal 21 , Texas Tach 7 Southern Methodist 35, Rica 17 Texas-Arlington 10, West Texas State 6 Taxas-El Paso 31, Pacific U. 7 
F1rW11t Arizona 22, Washington State 7 California 17, Arizona State 9 Houston 24, UCLA 16 Long Beach State 9, Boise St:rte 7 
NMda-LM YIIIIIS. N1nn Stltt14 
New Mexico 3( ~.... ,. Qnoon 33. Oolorldo tt 
I Sin Jolt State 41. Utah State 41. t1t 
Tulsa 24, Air Force 7 Utah 27, Hawlll23 Washington 38, Wyoming 2 
HOVItftE AP TOP TWENTY FARED 
1. 
Southtrn California (HI) beat Texas Tec:ll 21-7. 

2. 
Alabama (HI) beat Georgia Tech 30-6. 

3. 
Oklahoma (D-O) did not play. .4. Texas (D-0) did not play. 


5. 
Penn State (D-0) did not play. 

6. 
Purdue (1-G) beat Wisconsin 41-20. 7. Michigan (1-G~beat Northwestern 49-7. 


8. Nebraska (D-0 did not play. 
I. Notre 011111 I did Ht lillY. 
10. 
Michigan State (1-G) beat llllnols 33-16. 

11. 
Georgia (D-0) did not play. 12...Missourl (1-G) beat San Diego State 


45-1:~. 
13. Stanford (D-1) lost to Tulane 33-10. . 14. Texas A&M (D-1) lost to Brigham Young i 18-17. 
15. 
Washington (1-G) beat Wyoming 38-2. 

16. 
Houston (1-G) beat UCLA 24-16. 

17. 
Pittsburgh (D-0) did not play. 

18. 
Arizona State (D-1) lost to California 17-9. 

19. 
Florida State (1-G) beat Southern MISSIS­sippi 17-14. 

20. 
ArkanSas (D-0) did not play. 


Racquetball club begins planning 
Efforts to initiate a Notre Dame-St. Mary's racquetball club have begun. Club officials hope to supply organized ladder play for both men and women, and are lookin_g into· inter-col­legiate competition.· All inter­ested students are encouraged to attend Activities Night this evening for more information and sign-up procedure. 





Classifieds 
' Notre Dame Ave. Artfor rant. Apt 10. n.50/month. Cal Chris 283-8383 or
Notices 
233~284. 
Morrissey Loan Fund Apartmentfor rent. !100 rebate offered.

Student loans $20 to $200. 1 percent Aot 3C N.D. Apts. Ask for Bob or DaveInterest charge. Open M-F, 11:3D-12:30. 
2113-1791, 1789, 1103 Grace Hall.
Basement of LaFortune. ' 
Used Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 
Wanted
~7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Rd. Niles. 683-2888. 
I need someone to help me clean my big, old house on Friday afternoons eachTyping In home. Fast, accurate, reason­week. I will provide lunch, transportation
able. Close by. Call 272-4105 after 5 and $2.50 per hour; call 234-4498.
p.m. 
Female roommate needed to shareVOLUNTEERS NEEDED TO TUTOR 2-bedroom apt near campus. $137.00 per1. Volunteers needed who speak Spanish 
month. Call 232-7610 after 5:30 p.m.
to tutor grade school and high school students. 
Male Housemate wanted. $110 per2. American Indian children In grade month (everything Included) for niceschool and house. Call 288-3095 or 272-1768.
3 Two students in high school Math and English who are preparing for G.E.D. 
Part:tlme (3 nights) and full-time work
Test. 
available, all positions needed-~venlngs­
Please contact the Volunteer Services apply In person-Nicola's Restaurant, 809Office-7308. 
N. Michigan St., close to campus--Dish­washer, busboy, pizza maker, clean-upVOLUNTEERS NEEDED and supply person-(thls Is afternoons)To support and assist with the annual 
Talk to Gina.
Blke·a-thon sponsered by the St. Joseph County American Diabetes Association. WANTED: Soccer coaches and helpers.Bike-a-thon to be held on October 7 In Holy Cross School, 1020 Wilbur. South Bend. Contact Volunteer Services Volunteers needed to help with 4-8 gradefor more Information. 7308. teams 2 afternoons a week from about 
2:30 to 4:30. Call Lloyd Ketchum. 3709. To ALL Sophomores,Anyone Interested In helping wHh the Need ride to Cincinnati or close as sophomore newsletters cell Beth Prezlo, possible to Miami University of Ohio, on Phone 14629. This applies to both on Sept. 14. Will share expenses. Call Mary cempus 1nd the overseas newsletter. We Kay at 8145. NEED atlffl 
Rommate wanted: completely furnished apt. Can have your own room, Notre Dame Apts. Call3169,
Lost&Found 
8251. 

Ride needed to Cln.-Day area this Friday.
Lost: 2notebooks (Org. Cham., Calc.) In Tim 8164.the lobby of the bookstore. Need badly. Please call Mark 3368. 
SWIM COACH WANTED 
Concord age group AAU swim team Lost: One yellow and green shag needs swim coach for Its year around rug-Reward. Call 8145. program. Call 219-875-6000 for further 
Information and interview. 
Lost-Keg tapper while on roadtrip somewhere around NO. Reward. Need ride to Iowa City the weekend of Call232-3127. Sept. 22-Colin 8736. 
Lost: Gold necklace In shape of a tennis WANTED: 8-track Deck. Call 283-1129. racket with pearl. Call Cindy 272-4267. Her.. Mr. and Mrs. Lindemann, It s that time of year, again. Our annually renewable thank you for your
For Rent 
efforts 19 years and 9months ago. Today, 
the resultant, Usa, celebrates her 19th Newly decorated house, close to Notre birthday party. A Happy Birthday [P.B.]Dame, 4 bedrooms, furnished, 111 E. Is In order. Navarre St. Call at Kagel Flower and Gift Love: Gordon, M.G., Jeanne, & Manda, Shop 233-2232 or 272-6994. Cathy, Jerry H., Ryan, Kurt, &Mom and 
United Airlines 50V2 discount tlx, Tony 233-6208. 
'73 Pontiac GTO. 8 cylinder 3-speed manual, power steering and brakes. snow tires, too. Only 36000 miles. $1100. 
234-87~. 
Students/Faculty Book Sale Library Concourse, Sept. 13-14, 10:00 
a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Sponsored by Friends of the Library at ND. 
Going home for break or Thanksgiving? United Airlines 50Yz off coupons (2) for sale. $50.00 each, or best offer. Call Pat at 237-4273 between 9-5. 
1978 Corvette L-82 2600 miles, Loaded-­drastically reduced, call 289-1695. 
Sansul G-2000 Stereo Receiver. 16 watts/channel. Excellent condition. Mike 8856. 
19n Kawasake 1DO-mint condition with less than 400 mlles--$500.00. 1975 Honda Super Sport 750--also mint condition with less than 12,000 mlles-­$1000.00. Helmets go with both bikes. May be seen over weekend. Call 272-7857 and ask for Bill. 
For Sale: 22-inch AZUKI to-speed bicycle. Great condition. $100. Call 259-8728. 
'75 Scirocco-Excallent condition; many extras, $3250. 287-1729. 
Tickets 
STYX Tickets, main floor. For sale or trade for Michigan tlx, Call Ron 1068 or Karen 4-1-4437. 
For Sale: Block of 4 U of M call John 994-1398 or Ken 313-665-ofOS between 6 and 8 p.m. 
Desperately need 4 GA tix for the Navy game. Call 4629. 
. If I don't get 2 GA tix to NO-USC I can't go home tlll '82. Please help! 4-4008. 
Need 2 tickets for any home football game; preferably Oct.27. Will pay through nose. ·Please call1978. 
Desperately need 4 GA tickets to Michi­gan St. Call Greg 1523. 
Have to have 4 GA tickets for MichiganSt. Call Rick 8698. 
There once was a kid in a fix; Needing any 4 GA home tlx. Highest price he would pay; If you called him today, So call Bob at eleven-six-six. 

All ~lassif!ed ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the tssue tn whtch the ad is run. The Observer office will (\ccept classifieds Monday through Friday. 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre·paid, either in person or through the mail. 
Need 2-4 tickets to Michigan game. Call I HERE'S YOUR CHANCE TO DO IT ' 287~942 anytime. Top dollar paid. RIGHT! Exercise and weight control 
program run jointly by SMC Athletic Need Michigan State Tlx. Big Bucks!! Dept. and Counseling and Career Devel­Call Stan 1878. opment. Change your eating habits 
permanently (learn to eat dlnlng hall Need 4 GA's tor MSU. Will pay big food!) and Improve your self-Image. Find bucks. Call Jeff 8764. the rest of the Info elsewhere In today's 
personals.... Need meny GA tickets for USC g1me. C11l Beth SMC 4911. Buckeye, how are your toas...knees and 
all of the above? Fl Fl Must get 2-8 tickets to any home game. Will pay! Call Louie SMC-4456. To the Hunky Hawaiian, You're a real 
cutle. Secret Admlrlr MONEY NO OBJECT!!! Need 6 GA tlx for USC. Call Jack Room 204 and 205 Stanford, When's that 288-9751. party you promised us? Room 204 and 
205 Fan Club. Desperately need 5GA tlx to Tennessee! Call John at 3656. Llurle from low1, Thla mey not be homt 
but you belong In the Iedin llmlly.Need 4GA tickets to MSU game for dying Friends. grandparents. Call Lori at 4-1-4573 or Dan at 3322. Many thanks to my headliner roomie and 
her cookie, my PR chairman MargieWill trade 2 USC tlx for MSU. Tim 1166. Epplg, THE DRUMMERS (fountain of 
youth?) and everyone else for myWanted: 2 M lchlgan State tickets-stu­birthday. It was great! Re.p:at perform­dent or otherwise. Call Pat 8913. ance Friday, Sept. 5, 1980.. 
Need Southern Cal Tickets. Will pay top HERE'S YOUR SECOND CHANCE! dollar. Call Joe after 10. 233«124. Exercise & Weight Control Program 
students, faculty and staff--sign up earlyMy family will disown me If I don't get 1 for a preliminary self-evaluation at the GA tix for Mlch State. Call Andy at f959. Counseling .and Career Development 
Center or Angela at SMC. More hidden GA tlx needed for home games. Call Lou Info...keep searching!3171. 
Mary, ceslllor your atlsh-1 need tlx for Mlch, Feliz cumplaanos. Purdue, MSU, Tech, and USC. Help! anne, Charlie, Tlm,Anne Mlck 8212. Brendan, Mike largo 
Urgently need 4 Purdue tickets. Big Today Is Mike Burton's birthday. Call bucks. Call Martie 232-5238. 1653, ladles, and wish him a happy one. 
Wanted: 10-12 GA tickets to Georgia Happy Birthday Jamy!! (Notice the Tach or Navy games. Can trade 4 GA spelling!) South Carolina tickets. Call Eric 1384. 
THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE!! Need 1 GA or student ti<:ket for Georgia Exercise and weight control program Tech. $$$$$$$Joe 8670. sessions will be held weekly. Counseling­
Wednesdays 4:00 to 5:00, exercising Need 2 GA USC tickets. Call Tom 1222. Mondays 4:30 to 5:30, Wednesdays 5:00 
to 5:45 and Thursdays 4:30 to 5:30. JOIN Need 2 GA's for USC will make deal. ANYTIME bOt remember, the SOONER 2n-4267. THE ~ETTER!! SEE YOU THERE. 
PURDUE TICKETS 1 NEED 1 OR START OFF ON THE RIGHT FOOT! 
2GA'S. 8712. Establish your personal credential file­come to Senior Placement Orientation. Sign up at SMC Counseling and Career Development Center for any of the
Personals 
following 
dates-Sept. 12,15,19,22, and 
27. lt:S the right way to begin. 

Greetings to 310 Dillon-the passion pit!! Happy Birthday Sharon!! Behave yourselves guys, From the Love, Johnlove-life wrecker. 
P.s. I will see you In 5. 

.. ................ ··"············· ............................... . 

Monday, September 10, 1979 ~ ~e 12
~rts 
Hotvedt makes great strides as women's athletics grow 
by Beth Huffman help them work within the the future organization of all Women 's Sports Editor university at whatever level the individual sports for men they choose." women be
Astrid Hotvedt. The name and will one team 
When Hotvedt came to Notre comprised of a men's squadmeans little to many, but to the 
Dame, the acceptance of wo· and a women's squad. Therewomen of Notre Dame's cam· men on campus was unstable. will be one head coach, assisted pus, it should mean a great 
deal. In her sixth year as A group of women seeking a by a stipened graduate assis­court at the Rock to play tant of the opposite sex from
Coordinator of Women's Athle­

basketball were often met with the head coach.'' At presenttics, Hotvedt is continuing to 
expand and improve her de­hostility. Hotvedt, along with the Irish women have two whom she terms some ''very competitors on the men's swim­
partment. 

understanding men'' in the ming squad · a swimmer and aWhen Hotvedt, a native of athletic department have work­diver · but these women mustDearborn Park,\Michigan, came ed "helping men here to acce_pt also compete against men.
to Notre Dame in 1974 from her women as capable in certam Hotvedt has hopes that vol­

position at the University of Illinois at Champaign, women areas." Now it is not un­leyball, which is now a club 
common to encounter the Irish
had only been enrolled at du sport and has p~titioned for 
Lac for two years. According tC' women co-recreating with Irish varsity status, will soon become Hotvedt, any type of estab· men at the Rock. the fifth varsity sport. Dim­lishediathletic wograms for Hotvedt, a graduate of East· ming Hotvedt' s hopes ·is the women simply 'didn't exist." ern Michigan with a degree in recent tabling of the volleyball By the efforts of Michael De· Health, Physical Education, club's petition. Hotvedt also C1cco in fencing and Carol Moor and Recreation, is constantly foresees the promotion of a in tennis, women had begun workiog to initiate programs to cross-country and track team unofficial competition. help the Notre Dame women in along with a women's swim 
Under Hotvedt's leadership all areas. Working with Dr. team to the varsity· level. in 1976, those same two sports Thomas Kelly of the non-varsity Along with her field hockey became the Notre Dame wo­sports department, Hotvedt has coac!ting, initiating and sup­men's first two varsity Iteams. worked in improving the intra­porting of programs, and keep­Basketball followed in 1977, mural programs for ·Women. mg the student body informed, and field hockey, coached by Notable im_provement in the Hotvedt is always on hand to Hotvedt, in 1978. At present women's attitude toward athle­help the coaches, athletes, and these four sports are the only tics can also be seen in the students in their needs. Hot­women's teams at varsity level. active participation by so many vedt has displayed the criteria 
Hotvedt, who puts in about women in the last year's book· she insists is vital to her 
13 hours each day between store basketball. position-·' 'strong personal teaching physical education The Irish women presently commitment to the develop· classes at the Rock and fulfil· compete in Division III of ment of women's athletics.'' ling her duties at the ACC, women's collegiate athletics. w.kes her job seriously and is Division III offers 0-10%· of 
Just for bucks

always striving for Improve· scholarships based on athletic ment. "I see my J'ob as ability. coordinating the nee s and Hotvedt discussed the future interests of the girls on the of women's athletics with a 

Meyers on the wrong track 
campus," she says, and "to unique idea, "My vision for 
So Ann Meyers wants to play with the bigFor openers boys. And all over the country, women's advocates no doubt are beside themselves with 
Crai,g
glee. B~t for all the wrong reasons.
Bearcats st_.ytnie Irish· 
If Ann Meyers' name were Ann Smith, or, in other words, if David Meyers weren't a forward Chval by Gary Grassey kids, though, because they for the Milwaukee Bucks of the national Sports W n'ter played well enough to win, but Basketball Association, she would be spending 
humiliate Meyers with their tremendous talent. 
In a game of inches, the team we didn't win. I just don't want the next few months bouncing a ball in empty Other players in the NBA, though, don't possess 
that comes out on top is usually them to feel really depressed gyms, awaiting the tryouts for the 1980 U.S. 
the GOO-given ability ofa Gervin or a Thompson.
the one that gets the most and not realize how well they Women's Olympic Basketball team. 
~ey survive by slugging it out toe-to-toe every
breaks. played.'' But Indiana Pacer. owner Sam Nassi saw rught:On Sunday afternoon, Cincin· In the first half, the Irish something in Meyers that he didn't see in his 
led by senior half­For players like John "Crash" Mengelt and
nati University's Bearcats got attack was pathetic team--the ability to put people in the Dave Twardzik, basketball isn't one jump shotthe breaks they needed to edge back ), im Sabitus and forwards seats, and money in the coffers. 
Ed 0 Malley and Sami Kahale. after another. It's one floor burn after another. 
Notre Dame, 1·0, in the Irish It's hard to blame Nassi for doing whatever he 
Their centering passes trigger­The Gervins and the Thompsons will merely
soccer season orener. can to hype attendance and keep the team in
ed a number of scrambles and make the people lau_gh at Meyers. The
The only goa of the game Indianapolis.
near misses in front of Bearcat Mengelts and the Twardziks will make them feel 
came at the 3:06 mark of the And I suppose it's equally difficult to fault sorry for her. 
goalie· Daryl Jones. Danniefirst half, before most of th~ 
Meyers for taking the $50,000 guarantee and the 
400-plus fans at Cartier field McCurrie had the best oppor­Just maybe Ann Meyers will make it in the
chance to find out for certain that she can't play
had settled into their seats. tunity of the half at the 25-min­NBA. Stranger things have happened. (See last 
with the big boys. 

ute mark when Jones was year's NCAA East ReRional.) 
The scoring play began when caught out of his net, but the Looking at the incident from the point of view

Bearcat forward Dave Eslick That's not what matters, . dlough. . There is
shot was deflected and Cincin­of women's athletics, and its struggle for
chipped the ball ;down the·· teft little doubt that Chris Evert Uoyd and Martina
nati cleared the ball. acceptance, though, Meyers' move was a slap in 
side of the field Ito teammate Navratilova could consistently defeat some of 
on, body the face. A member of the U.S. Olympic 1976
Mike Whiting. Irish fullback As the game wore the marginal players on the men's pro tennis
contact began to play an impor· women's silver-medal basketball team, Meyers
Tom Crotty and Whiting raced tour. And it's not at all beyond the realm of
tant role. In spite of the fact at first declined to join the Women's Profes­
for the ball until they collided possibility that they could make a very
that his players received five sional Basketball League in order to retain her
about fifteen yards in front of handsome living d~ing so.
yellow cards and a team warn· amateur status for the '80 Olympics. She wasn't Notre Dame goal-keeper Brian mg, Cincinnati coach Jim Mc­alone in her decision. Several other top B~t the WP~L is kicking, scratching andCullather. Whiting was the Dowell spoke of Notre Dame's women's players chose the same course of clawmg to survive. All across the countryonly one standing after the 
physical play. "I think Notre action. women's athletic programs are waging a battl~bump and his subsequent shot for acceptance against tremendous Odds. WhenDame might have mixed the But now Ann has chan&ed her tune.
beat the helpless Cullather 

football and soccer team up," Suddenly, the Olympics aren t so important. a player of Meyers' ability chooses to try to liveeasily. 
McDowell said. ''They were And neither is the survival of the WPBL. out her tomboy fantasies, women athletes From that moment on, how· everywhere lose credibility. 
rough on us. Notre Dame had Women's pro basketball needs Ami Meyers.
ever, Notre Dame dominated all 

some fie sty, strong, tenacious But she'll soon find out that she needs the It won··t take long for NBA fans to tire ofphases of the game. The Irish players. There was a lot of WPBL more. Because in the NBA, she'll be a paying to see Ann Meyers flay, if, in fact, shepiled up 25 shots on goal for the contact, too, because of players gimmick, not unlike Eddie Gaedel, Bill Veeck's ever does play. Meyers wil be like the beardedafternoon, compared to only going up for high bounces that midget who once batted for the St. Louis lady in the circus. People will come by andnine for the Bearcats. Notre were a by-product of the astro· Browns. ·stare, but when you've seen one freak, you'veDame seemed to live on the 
turf.'' · ' seen them all.
Cincinnati side of the midfield Peol"le will not pay to see Ann Meyers'
Hunter, however, thought dif­I
stripe all day long. marvelous basketball talents. If that were the When Sam Nassi realizes that gimmicks won't 
ferently.'~ 'When two ag~ressive
Irish coach Rich Hunter could ~ase, the same people would pay to see her play save a franchise, and when Pacer general
teams play," he said, ' you get 
only say, "We didn't get the m the WPBL. mana~er-coach Bob Leonard realizes that
body contact." 
gimmicks won't win basketball games, Meyers
breaks. You can't win if you The most serious result of all People will pay to see Ann Meyers try to don't ~. I think our team the hitting was when Irish guard people like George Gervin. Or David will be out in the cold. n~s to ret a .aoal early so they for-Ward Ed O'Malley suffered a Thompson. And the people will get what they And I hope the teams in the WPBL are every 
some confidence. pay for. Laughs. bit as sypathetic toward Ann Meyers as she was 'I'm very disappointed for the (ro•li•Med o" page 10) Players like Gervin and Thompson will to them. 








