• • . SMC celebration -page 5 


The Off-Campus Commission met last flight ;, IBForhme. See story page 3. [Photo by Ron Szot.] p.m. to 12 midnight at Lee's. There will be a one dollar charge at the door and happy hour prices 
will prevail. Pitchers of beer will be $1.60 all night with all pro­
Farmers jam D.C. roads; spark violence ceeds going to Camarda. In addition to the reduced beer 
WASHINGTON [AP]-Thousands despite a total mobilization of Agriculture, he said net farm American Agriculture claims prices, there will also be a raffle of farmers rumed their plow­police. i.ncome had increased 40 percent their ranks willswell.to 30,000 with prizes given away through­shares mto tools of civil disrupt­"We've raised enough com, but in the last year, though more out the evening. Raffie tickets
Qver· the next several days. 
ion yesterday, jamming the not enough hell!" came the should be done to ensure that all will be five for a dollar. Prizes capital's roadways with tractors battle cry, as several se~e fanners share that prosperity. Tens of thousands of exasp-· include beer mirrors, signs. and and triggering sporadic violence cavalcades of farm vehicles "The Fanners Ace Here!" erated conunurers found them­other assorted beer paraphen­
poured into the city in a ttaffic Ih:lared banners trailing trom selves arriving at their offices up alia. 
snarling demand for higher gov­many of the 2,000 tractors and to four hours late -ifat all -due to "It's going to be a good time. 
ernment price supports for their trucks that entered the city at a the huge traffic tie-ups on The beer companies helped out aDonahue crops. crawl just before dawn yesterday. principal freeways and streets. lot for the party,'' Li~hthall Police arrested at least 14 Several of the vehicles-cars, Many, hearing of the chaos via commented, adding, "We re go­farmers and impounded more trucks Odld even mobile horves­radio and television, simply ing to raise a thousands dollars
to speak 
than a dozen vehicles, many of lwJ several farmers aboard, and stayed home. for Joe." which were le& abandoned in key by Neal Patterson intersections. Several police cruisers '\1lrUe Noted television talk show host rammed, and tires slashed and 
SMC board discusses sports festivaland Emmy Award Winner Phil windows broken oo ~rs. Olr Donahue will speak this evening officer was injured when a tractoe in Washington Hall at 7 p.m. was drived over his foot, Police by Beth Huffman up-coming projects concerning Saint Mary's Admission is free. Chief Burrell Jeffersoo, who cal­campus-wide charity, ST. Jude's Oilldren's 
Donahue, an ND alumnus, led out his entire force, was As time winds down for this year's Saint Mary's Hospital. 
personally involved in a shoving Board of Governance they are hastily completing The Board opted to donate money to the St.
~raduated in 1957 with a degree 
m Business Administration. He match. plans for upcoming events and projects. Topping Jude's Hopsital charity, a charity whose most Tear gas was fired at ooe the discussiOn at last night's board meeting was a famous sponsor and patron is Danny Thomas. The
began his television career with 
WNDU-1V while still a student driver who allegedly resisted progress report on the Wmter Sports Festival Board has asked each residence hall and class to here. He is, at present, host of arrest after blocking which began last ni~ht. 'The festival will continue hold various fund raising functions with all the the "Donahue" show which ori­Independence Avenue near the through Monday wtth daily events. proceeds going to St. Judes. 
Agriculture Depanment. A cross-country skiing clinic highlighted yester­The ''topper'' for the fund raising project will beginates at WGN-1V in Chicago 
and is syndicated nationally. Anot:her tractor ~ was club-day's festival activities. On the agenda for today' s a talent show sponsored br the sophomore class. 
Tomorrow's television pro­bed and dragged to a paddy events are a faculty-staff volleyball game at 12:15 Angela Athletic xilitywill be the sight of the gram is of special interest be­~n; officers said he had p.m., a running and jogging clinic at 4 p.m. and the sophomore production and the Class President cause it will feature an hour-long brandiSheda baseball bat at them. lacrosse clinic set for 5 p.m. All the events will be Adrian Trigiani says that she hopes for a large and 
In another episode, a vdllcle was held in the Angela Athletic Facility. profitable rum-out. lhcee nights of campus-wideinterview with Fr. Hesburgh in destroyed by fire near the depart-The last event, a "Synchronized" swimming auditions will be held with invitations extended tofront of a studio audience. 'The 
showwill be broadcast live at 12 ment. clinic held at Regina pool, will begin tonight at 8. both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students. 
p.m. over WGN-1V and shown The demonstration was Various other events will be held through Monday, Sophomore class members will be asked to serve 
subsequently over other stations launched by the American Agri including a recreational evening ofvolleyball slated as hostesses and ushers for the evening. All ul · -foe Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students on questions concerning the show can be referred to
syndicating the program. 
This evening Donahue will ~ ~.:,;fulli;,,:O~~~ri:; Friday. Angela will be open for the volleyball the Sophomore Oass President, Adri Trigiani, or 
lofon . . autbori match-ups frOm 8-12 on that day. the event's Co-Chairman, Mary Joan Ptassin.
speak briefly, after which he will exlStl.Dg. ty to guaranttt Other topics discussed included plans for the To date, the show's date remains tentative, butanswer questions from the audi­farme~ pnces c-4~to 90 percent upcoming Student Governance elections, Saint further details will be published in the Observer.
ence. He is utilizing this format of panty foe ¥r crops. Full Mary's campus-wide charity, board finance, and Student Body President Gail Darragh has beenso that he can address himself to 
panty wool=·
them roughly possible athletic scholarships at Saint Mary's. reseraching the possible increase of the Board'sthe topics of greatest interest to the same . pof!U that · A revision has been made in election policy to budget and reponed yesterday on her research. Atthe audience. 
farmers _elijoyed this cent-allow out-going seniors to vote for next year's p~nt, the board receives $15 peryear for eachThis event is being sponsored 
ury· Prices now are around 70 student body Officers. Elections will be held on student. Tills student alloanent has not beenby the Student Union Academic 
percent. Monday, March 12. Prior to the election, on increased since the 75-76 school year, while theCommission. An official of the 
President Canc:r said that •'I Monday, a letter will be distributed to each Saint tuition at SMC has increased. In contrast tocommtsston expressed the don't know c-4 any group that's Mary's student explaining offices, nominations, schools of comparable size and mean, DarJ:aghgroup's appreciation to Donahue, 
suffered more from the dicct ~ and election procedure. Campaign rules and said, Saint Mary's budget foe the board is
pointing out that he is foregoirig 
inflation than fanner'S.'' But, in ~will be published at a later date in the ?cessively low. Darragh p~ to work for an
his usual fee of aJ?proximately 
cemarb to the Naoowl Associat-Observer. mcrease.
$5,000 for a speaking engage­
ion eX State Departmmts ~ The Board incorporated in its discussion the [C01JiilluJ em page 6)
ment. 

( 


• 
• 
Ne-ws in brief 
·Tuesday, February 6, 1979-page 2 
Jaggers 1 marriage shatters; Bianca files for divorce 
LOS ANGELES (AP)-BiancaJagger, wife ofRo~ Stones lead singer mick Jagger, filed for divorce yeste~day asking S1_4,_000. a month in support and half the couple's esnmated $25 ~on m community property. ''Although Bianca has been hopmg for a reconciliation these past couple of months, the lawswt was necessary because Mick has made it cl~~ tha~ it (reconciliatio~~ is not possible-because he has been livmg wtth anothe~ _lady, said attorney Marvin Mitchelson, who flled the pennon on behalf of Mrs. Jagger, who was in London. "He has failed to support her, sent her bills b~ and cancelled .her char~e accounts '' said mitchelson. The amount provtded her 1s meager ~ompared to his. obligations to her.'' Jagger. has been living in Los Angeles wtth model Jerry Hall, according to the document. He was not abailable for comment. 
ERA stance threatened by revocation proposal 
INDIANAPOliS (AP)-Indiana's ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment could be revoked under a proposal endorsed yesterday by a Senate committee and sent to the floor for debate. The plan, sponsored . by , Sen. Joan . Gubbins, R-Indiana£0lis, would overturn Indiana s 1977 vote 1!1 f~vor of the ERA if it fails to become part of the U.S. Consntunon by March 22. Lawyers who testified before the committee disagreed about whether the move would have any legal effect. Sen. Leslie Duval, R-Indianapolis, an attorney, told the Governmental Affairs Committee that he SU{>ported the proposal because Congress ha~ ''~ged the rules m the middle of the g:une.'' 
Sara Moore misses again; recaptured after escape 
ALDERSON, W.Va. (AP)-SaraJane Moore, who pleaded guilty to trying to kill then-President Gerald R. Ford in 1975, escaped from a minimum-security federal prison here Monday night, and was recaptured about four hours after she was discovered missing, police said. State police said Ms. Moore and another inmate were taken into custody near White Sulphur Springs, about 10 miles from the prison near here. State police Capt. 
B.H. Cassell, said the women were arrested while walking along a road. He added that they appeared t~ be in good condition. 
Weather 
Mostly cloudy with a chance of light snow today through tomorrow. Highs today in the upper teens to the low 20s. Lows tonight 10 to 15. Highs tomorrow in the low to mid 20s. Chance of snow 30 percnet through tonight. 

3:30 pm--lECilJRE, "narrative and the translation of time", mitchell Iifton, followed by discussion, ART GAllERY 
4:30 pm--SEMINAR, "quantitative genetic studies of heart disease risk factors,'' joe c. christian, ph.d., m.d., prof. of medical genetics, indiana u., 278 GALVIN 
6prn--MEETING, ireland program, I.EMANS HAll 
7:30 pm--F~RUM, how to get into law school, dean david t. link, nd law school, FLANNER COMMONER 
,~:30 pm--lECilJRE-DISCUSSION, "careers in business,·· bro. leo ryan, dean of nd college of business, HOWARD HAIL 
7:30pm--DISCUSSION, corporate responsibility, dan molinaro, 
u.s. steel, 122 HAYES-HEALY 
12:15..:2 am--WSND, ·~octume nightflight", hosted by hand notar donato, 89 fm 
MARDI GRAS DEAlER SCHOOL 7 pm--Keenan 7:45pm--Stanford 
8:30 pm--Lewis 
9:15 pm--Flanner 
Costello 
to head Atnst dept. 
Dr. Donald P. Costello, profes­sor ofEnglish at Notre Dame, has been appointed Chairman of the Program in American Studies. 
Costello, a member of the English faculty since 1960, as­sumes direction of an undergra­duate academic program created at Notre Dame in 1970 to examine the American experience from an interdisciplinary point of view. He succeeds Dr. Thomas Schlereth, who has resigned to return to full-time teaching and research. 
Costello received his under­graduate education at DePaul University, from which he re­ceived his A.B. de~ee in 1955. His graduate trainmg was at the University of Chicago, where he received an M.A. in 1956 and a Ph.D. in 1960. He is a specialist in American literature and con­temporary film and drama, and his doctoral thesis on Bernard Shaw and the motion picture was published in 1965 by the Notre Dame Press. 
Before coming to Notre Dame, Costello was an instructor in English and American studies at Roosevelt University in Chicago. 
His appointment to chair American Studies is effective immediately, and he will retain his professorship in English. 
Racquetball Oub.meets 
tomorrow 
An organizational meeting for the Men's Raquetball Oub will be held tomorrow night at 10:30 
p.m. in the Grace Hall Pit. Ifyou are interested but cannot attend, call ) ohn Mylinski at 6801, or John Schafer at 6934. 
Governtnent 
departtnent 
sponsors fil-m 
The Government Department will sponsor a film, ''The Triumph of the Will,'' tonight and tomorrow night in the Engineering Auditorium at 7 each night. Admission will be free of charge. 
~'!:!~bs:::~:er 
Asst. Night Editor:  Frank  
Kebe  
Features  Layout:  Scoop  
Sullivan  
Sports  Layout:  Beth  

Huffman, Mark Perry Typists: Mardi Nevin, Tom Pipp, Pete McFadden, Rosie Rodgers EMf: Katie Brehl Day Editor: john Ferroli Copy Reader: Mark Rust Ad Layout: joe MMrphy, Little Barb Pratt Photographer: Ronnie Szol 
The Observer [USPS 598 9201 is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pun:hased for S20 per year [S10 per semester] from The Observer. P.O. box Q, Notre bame, Indiana 46556. Second class =paid, Notre Dame, In­
diana . 

and apecial 

EXILE
gueat atat 

Thutsday Feb 22 8p• Notte Dante ACC All Seats ReaetYed ---• ----18.00 & J7.00 
nckets on aale at ACC Box Office P1oduced bg SUNSHINE & CELEBRATION 
...... ~ 4 
~ED KEN 

creatiue hair designs for men and women 
Hours Tues 8:30-5:30 Wed-Thurs 8:30-8:30 Sat 8-4 Fri 8:30-6:30 

call today for an anttomtment 134-6767

..................mllllliiP...Y8 
WILL CONDUCT INTERVIEWS ON THIS CAMPUS 

Tues., Feb. 13, 1979 
CAREER POSITIONS IN VERTICAL TRANSPORTATION MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT WILL BE DICUSSED WITH DEGREE CANDIDATES IN 

Business Administration 
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
ABOUT 
MONTGOMERY 
AND OUR FUTURE 
VISIT TO YOUR CAMPUS. 
CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT 
OFFICE. 
-tgomerj
El.EWU'OAS-ESC.AUJORs 
POWER~ & RAIFS 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNTY 
~MPLOVER 
' Montgomery Elevator Company. Moline. llinois 61265 Montgomery Elevator Co.• Limited, TOf"onto. Ontario M9B3S5 
1 
Offices in principal cities of North America 

The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction
10 pm--Lyons 
rights are reserved. 
' 
. 
The Observer 

Tuesday, February 6, 1979-~ 3 

These sl'llllents browsed:yesterr./qy at the Original Oriental Art Sale !n the LzForttme /Ohby. The sale, sponsored by the SU Service.[
nL 'S Commissjon, willC011tinlll! today.frr!m 10 a.m. to j p.m. routo by Ron SZOt.] 
Maintenance plows D-1, 0-2 parking lots 
by Tim joyce . SiajfReporter 

Plowing of the D-1 and D-2 student parking lots was comple­ted Saturday morning by~ maintenance personnel wtth very few problems. according to Bill Thisdewaite, superintendent of Grounds. 
"It went pretty good--there were a lot ofcars left in D-1 which held us up a litde bit but the D-2 lot was clear of cars. There was really no problem, but we could have done a better job ifall of the cars in D-1 had been removed,'' Thisdewaite explained. 
The plowing was done exclu­sively with Maintenance Depan­ment equipment. A front-end loader, tractors and. trucks were 
employed to do the job.  ··we  
used everything that  we  had,''  
said Thisdewaite.  

Because the moving of cars was stricdy voluntary, those who didn't move their cars were not 


OCC meets. to discuss reps 
listing is tolinsure that available housing would have to meet the standards established by the OCH. 
Currendy many houses are not listed with the office and as a result studentS remain uninform­ed about potential security prob­lems and the ph~ical deficien­cies of many off-campus resi­dences. 
FREE UNIVERSITY COURSE REGISTRATION 

Today & tomorrow 8:00-4:00 
in Lafortune 


sponsoted bg N.D. student union and St.fllal)l's student govetnment 
ticketed. • • As far as I know, none of the cars were ticketed by us," stated Joe Wall, director of Security. Thisdewaite pointed out, however, that the cars that were not moved ended up getting plowed under. · 
''The funny thing about it is that those cars that were not moved looked like the ones that had been driven the whole time. Most of them weren't even covered with snow,'' Thisdewaite remarked. 
There were some problems Friday getting the cars from the lots so that they could be plowed, according to Wall. '"We blew the alternator on our truck trying-to jump start the numerous cars that wouldn't start. The break­
down was the result of us tryi~~ to get those cars started that been sitting there for an exten­
ded period of time. "'We 'WOuld sit there while the car owne~ cranked over the 
[continlll!d on page 6] 
byjanetRigaux LaFortune available as a center 
for off-campus students in an 

The Off-Campus Commission effort to ''... give them a place to (OCC) met last night in identify with on campus.'' l..aFonune to discuss a proposed D'.Antonio also hopes that all amendment that would allow students wishing to live off­oft~campus students to have a campus will use the OCH to representative on the Student locate a place to live. In this way Government Board of Commis­landlords would be forced to have sions and the Campus Life Coun­their houses approved and listed 
cil. by the OCH. The purpose of this John Fitzpatrick, Off-Cam_Pus 
coordinator, argued last mght that ofi~campus students should 
have a representative, saying, ''They too must pay a $17 student 
BOWARD BALL government fee for which they are getting !10 services.'' PRESENTS 
Fitzpatnck explained that the proposed representative would give off-campus students a foot­
CaR€€RS 

hold in student affairs so that their specific needs could be 
1n 

better met. In order for ,the proposed 

BUS10€SS 
amendment to be considered by the Board of Conlmissioners, a • petition with signadu-es from 15 
a lectuRe..OJscuss•on BY
percent of the student body~must be secured. .A pee·.otrdrfve for the amendment · take place in the dining halls ext week. 
BRO. leo Ryan
\ ' ·­

Persons interested in signing the petition can also do so at a 
0ean, C0ll€Cj€ 0~ BUSIO€SS

planned Off-Campus Night next week according to Dan D'Antonio, director of the Office of Off-Campus Housing (OCH). 
tuesbay f.es. 6The 0-C Ntght will be held in LaFortune and is being sponsor­ed byOCH. 
In view ofthe current disorgan­ization of off-campus &tudents, the committee has decided that for this year it would be best if the representative was appointed by Fitzpatrick and the OC:C. 
Each applicant for the position must submit a petition with 50 signatures to the OCC. The applications will then be screen­ed and the choice narrowed down to five. Next year, however, this representative will be chosen by a general election. 
The idea of altering the shutde bus schedule was also discussed at the meeting. .According to Sha.Qnon Neville, a member of the OCC, most students are 
Tuesday-oriental_ art exhibit and sale
dissatisfied with the present schedule, complaining that the 
1 0-5 Lafortune 
bus returns to their residences too late at night. Neville ex­
Phil Donahue 7pm Washington hall
pressed hope that more runs would be added to the schedule. 
D' .Antonio also announced plans to make a room in 
WednescJay.Paul Gerni pool exhibitionist 

LaFortune basement Ftlday-mardi gras starts Feb. 9-17 
' 

Anyone interested in the position of 

Observer Editor-in-Chief 
for the 1979-80 s~hool yea should contact Tony Pace by Friday , Feb. 9th call 8661 or 7471 
--~--_I
---·--~ -~--­
l 
l 
The Observer Tuesday, February 6, 1979-page 4 
,1_·. 
r 
{ 
I 
I 
~··················~:~~;·~·················~ 
:  Is  holding a BENEFIT PARTY  
:  for Joe Camarda  
•• :  (off-campus assault victim) to help defray hospital bills  
~  . ALL PROCEEDS!!  
:•  will be donated. to Joe Camarda  
:  $1.00 at the door  bring your ID's  

•taffies& prizes
: · $1.60 pitchers all night 5-12 mid 
• 

THINK 




FER88r9 
That's when our General Dynamics team will be on campus to talk to you about your future. We're probably best known as a leading American defense contractor. But we also have wide-ranging programs in many other high technology fields as well. We offer qualified graduates broad corporate career paths in many diverse areas: Aerospace. Data Systems. Marine. Building Products and Resources. Telecommunications and Electronics. 
There are truly outstanding opportunities in nearly every engineering and scientific discipline with particular emphasis on .the computer sciences. Disciplines: 
Aeronautical, Chemical, Civil, Computer Science, Electrical, Electronic, Industrial, Mathematics, Materials, Manufacturing, Metallurgical, Mining, Marine, Mechanical, Nuclear, Optics, Physics, Reliability, Welding. 
Be sure to inquire about Co-op and Summer Intern programs with General Dynamics. 
There will be an orientation meeting held the evening before our visit. Be sure to check the Placement Office for details. 
GENERAL DYNAMICS 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 

: 
: 
:•: 
:
•
:
• 
: 
• 
: • 
'Holy man' Khomeini 
names head to regime 

TEHRAN. Iran (AP) -Aya­tollahKhomeinit a fateful step in his fight for power last night, naming a veteran anti-shah poli­tician to head a ''revolutionary'' regime rivaling Iran's shaky gov­ernment and warning the military they risk God's wrath if they tty to stop him. 
The Moslem holy man called on the people of Iran to obey the new "ttansitiooal government" 
c:L 70-year-old Mehdi Bazargan, which is to ~ the way for an Islamic republic. He urged them to show their support through peacdUl marches nationwide. 
.Khomeini ckclared the U.S.­endorsed government of Prime Minister Shahpour Bakhtiar ''must go'' and that • • all those 

·~· 
• 

who were identified with this regime must .go,'' including Bakhtiar himself, who was ap­pointed by Shah Mohanuruid Reza Pahlavi before the monarch left Iran Jan. 16. 
Western diplomats said Khomeini' s move heightened the danger of a confrontation between his revolutionary move­ment and the armed forces, whose commanders have vowed to SU{>pon the monarchy and the consnrutional government. But some say a compromise is still possible. 
Reacting to Khomeini' s chal­lenge, the army sent troops into the offices of government minis­tries, apparently to !Jlaintain ~line among workers and 
off a possible takeover by the rival group. For the third day in a row no political violence was reponed in Iran. 
Khomeini, who made his an­nouncement at a news confer­ence, urged civil servants and soldiers to cooperate with Bazar­gan, who insisted his was not a "shadow government." He said it was ''a real government'' that will oversee elections for a new republic. 
But the new ''prime minister,'' reponedly the key intermediary in secret contacts between the two camps, also said he did not intend to trY to physically move into the Bakhttar government offices. 
The embattled Bakhtiar told 

Iranian television that as long as 
the new ''government'' was a 
"matter of words, it's possible." 

"But ifit comes to action, it's a different thing. I will have no objection to the announcement of a temporary government pro­vided this government plays the role of a shadow government or future government .... There is one government,'' he said. 
/****************
* i* 
: ONLY EIGHT 
: DAYS LEFT 
t 

: TO ~ 
* * 
: SCREW : 
* * 
:voUR ROOMMATE: 
* *
* * 
t***************l 
ARmANDO'S 
BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 1437 N .Ironwood Dr. South Bend 277-0615 Sue, Ruthie, Armando-stylist 
mon-fri 8-5:30 sat 8..2 by appt. only sat-no appt. needed 

either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Ollef ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson 
-The Observer_ of 
as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editoc . _......Steve Odiatul · Sports Editor ............ Ra'IJ 0 'Brien 
F Edi
opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ... t ...• jolm Caicldl earures tor . . . . . . . . . Chris Stewart
&x Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 J 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ......BarbLtmghem-, Photo Editor ........... ,Doug Chn'stian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Ro~Mills per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­~y Editor ..... _ . . . . . . PhilC«ltley Production Manager ...... ~di Nevin University of Norre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Saint Mary"s EditOf' . . . . . . FJin &ultJ:1 Bus.mess Manag~r ........ john Tucker Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­N~ Editor ...............A... Glks Advertising Manager ........ &b Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. N~ Editor ............. MileLewis 
At Saint Mary's College the Residence Director, Resident Advisors, and Hall Council ofHoly Cross sponsored an open house in celebration Of the hall's 75th birthday. This was the ftrst time Holy Cross Hall had celebrated it's anniver­sary by opening its doors to anyone who wished to take part in the ''very special tradition here at Saint Mary's and that tradition ofwhich Holy Cross is so much a part of'', according to senior chair­woman Cindy SoFranko. The idea of a 75th birthday was triggered by a book dealing with SMC history called Panorama and a discussion at a RA meeting. 
Throughout the afternoon VlStstors wandered comfortably through the dorm snacking on birthday cake and studying archair photographs of Holy Cross Hall from the Saint Mary's Archives, tracing its rich tradition while at the same time sharing present-day student life. Photos of Holy Cross and identification of the rooms' previous use were taken care of by senior Rosemary Serbent. 
The residents supported the event by baking cookies and inviting guests to take part in their lifestyle, and ''to see how we live," as one resident stated. Visitors included faculty, administration, and staff, all of which recieved personal invitations hand-delivered by the hall's RA's. The Sisters of the Holy Cross were the honored guests of the celebrat­ion. Hall President, sophomore Chip Dornbach expressed the resident's of Holy Cross Hall and the SMC student body's special thanks to the Sisters of the Holy Cross: ''We feel the Sister's of the Holy Cross are a special part of Saint Mary's tradition, and the open house was just one way we could thank them and have a chance to meet them.'' SoFrance expresses the hall's patronage in saying, ''We are very proud of our hall's tradition. That's why girls live here for two, three, and four years. Through the open house we had the opportunity to share that tradition.'' 
The tradition of which SoFranco speaks ofis the rich history ofHoly Cross Hall. The hall's cornerstone was blessed on October 25, 1903. The ftrst students arrived in the year 1903-1904, seventy ftve years ago. In 1904 the building was called Collegiate Hall; it was the entire college housin_g administration, staff, and faculty offices, the dining and rec rooms, inflfiDery, classrooms, students and convent. 
In the year of 1924-1925 LeMansy Hall was completed, and was thus called The New College where the entire college was moved. From 1925-1945 Holy Cross was an all girls boarding high school called St. Mary's Academy. 
Holy Cross Hall again became an active part of the St. Mary's College campus in 1945 · when it becamse a freshman dorm and housed classrooms once again. As a result ofa fue in a lab· on the second floor· main on Holy Thursday 1955 the Science Building began construction. By the end of '55 Holy Cross Hall became total residence as it is today. ' The visitors' reaction to the birthday celebration was postive to all aspects. The sisters• reaction to the open house can be summed up in a word all of them said, "Wonderfiil!" Dr. Duggan, President of Saint Mary's College attended the open house and responded to it by saying, "Marvelous. It is a typical St. Mary's reaction to their rich history and tradition.'' TI1e president added, "It is very nice .. .it makes for a cohesive community.'' 
Perhaps the best description of Saint Mary's Holy Crc•"', Hall can be seen in a woman who has l,~.:n at SMC since 1915, Sister Maria Consolata. Sister Maria stated, ''There is something in Holy Cross Hall that is no where else on campus...knowing that people have lived here." 
Tuesday, February 6, 1979 -page 5 ·


Features 
SMC Celebration 
Margie Brassil 




Battling with Betrayal 
• 
Notre Dame students live constandy under the threat ofbetrayal. It can come from any of us: teachers, rectors, campus ministers, fellow-students. 
It happens when any of us engage in the subtle conspiracy to hide the truth or to forgt it; when we fail to help students confront and probe necessary tensions; when we attempt to conceal from them the f":nwnentation and disorganization of our political institutions, the opportun­ism ofour national leaders; and, worst of all, when we present to them a Christianity that is detached and empty, a veritable opiate for the people. 
Some time ago there was a series on public television entided ''Religious America.'' The series viewed various church groups and individuals. The spiritual experiences are mosdy private moments when the individuals feel they are in personal contact with God. For many Of them these experiences are in the nature of direct zaps from heaven-­emotional floods of the heart occurring on schedule every Sunday. Exacdy how these experiences influence them later in the day or the following week doesn't seem to have much to do with what these people are looking for. 
Many of those interviewed empha­sized that the value of a spintual experience is precisely that it ''turns you away" from the world and mundane happenings. For example, a stylishly dressed parishioner in Manhattan ~ seen walking from church, as her voice in a narration explains that Jesus helps her rise above the ugliness and misery of the city. 
There is a wonderful story in Kazantzakis' spiritual autobiography, called Report to Greco. Father)oachim, a wild monk on Mount Patmos, tells of a dream he has had: 
I saw myself as a great sage in Jerusalem. I could cure many different diseases, but first and foremost I was able to remove demons from the possessed. People brought pattents to me from all over Palestine, and one day Mary, the wife of Joseph, arrived from Nazareth, bringmg her 12-year-old son ) esus. Falling at my feet, she c-ried out tearfully, "0 illustrious sage, take pity on me and heal my son. He has many demons inside 
him." 
I had the parents go outside. When I remained alone with ) esus, I caressed his hand and asked him, ''What is the matter, my child? Where does it hun?" 
"Here.. here..." he replied, pointing to his heart. 
. Fr. Bill 

Toohey 
"And what's wrong with you?'' "I can't sleep, eat, or work. I roam the streets, wrestling." "Who are you wrestling with?" ''With God. Who else do you expect me to be wres~ with?'' 
I kept him near me for month, addressed him ever so gently, gave him herbs to make him sleep. I placed him in a carpenter's shop to learn a trade. We went out for walks ~ and I spoke to him about God as though He were a friend and neighbor who came in the even­ing to sit with us on our doorstep and chat. There was nothing impressive or difficult about these talks. We spoke of the weather, of the wheatfields and vineyards, the young girls who went to the fountain. 
At the end of a month's time, ) esus was completely cured. He no longer wresded with God; he had become a man like all omer men. He departed for Galilee, and I learned afterwards that he had become a fine carpenter, the best in Nazareth ... 
Do you understand? Jesus was cured. Instead of saving the world, he became the best car­penter in Nazareth! 

That may be the most subtle tempta­tion we face: to relieve the struggl( when we should nourish i and help ooe another identify the challenges for what they are, encouraging enthusiastic in­volvement in transformation. It is temp~ {and so much easier) to support people tn their efforts to ~ academic training so as to "make it' in a narrow little world, instead of nu.r:ruring the incentive to change the world. 
Students will be "cured," like Jesus was in Father Joachim's dream, when they are fed a notion of Ouistianity as something smoothly assimilated and comfortably established within an already existing order of very limited horizons. A Christianity that simply fits in and blends and soothes~ to many, and coovmiendy coo10nns to thetr superficial needs. The attirude is one of compromise, and the blessed absence of ~-This wateted­


down Ottistianity frequently ~ a 
superficial fronl prmicameots 
whereas the~nature ci the ~ 
~r!:~m:r ~with.tht Poople who want ~:"c:.cocr 
them usually ~their roblems in . 
terms a.maladjustment to ~. penooa.l­
!9' difficulties, health, «economic need. 
They are RCC'king peace, plenty, and 
happiness. They are willing to see 
whether or not God can fill the bill. 

Years .ago_, Mary Pickford 'WIUe a 
book entitled, Wh}r Not Try Got/! A 
critic, in a devastating Idxmal, aslr:r!d 
the questioo, "Why DOt tty a&J!irin?" 
Ouistianity is not a pill« sopontac. h is 
really an intrusion:· a rewlt ~me 
=~'le ::7~cten::f~n.!."' 
The ROSPd is a call to ~ up against 
the indiffeleoce and apadty and uolove 
in our own lives, and is also an insistence 
that ~ bring . . the world, that much~=evil. 
As Otestertoo used to say! "'Don't just · 
tty to get 00 with the world; get il Oil. •• 
We live, for example, in a oount:rywith 
its priorities tngically coofused. We liYe 
in a country with a swollen defense 
economy, an almost aurooomous military 
establishment, continuing unemploy­
ment, a~white-black polarizatioo
and rowng cines. The rerord fur our 
Congress shows they cam-to the rich, 
bisr Dusiness and big oil while <Dog
ag . foe .l...-­

nothing ux: poor, wbo, m our 
newly-jxuposcd budget, .-e asked to 
bear the brimt of tbe-fia:ht 00 inflation. 

The danger fL nudear wac in the 1980's is ~; there is a growing number a.scientists who swr Barly that nuclear wac is now inr:vitable. We kef powerless to alttt the course cL e"YeDtS, and so ~ deny bolh d11e dan2e:r and our responsibility to coofroot it. tD. the midst of this, it is incredible to realize that, even ~ a SALT tteary .is but a small, small step towards disarmament, there are ugly focces mnspiring to ddeat its ratificarioo. 
Students who escape betmyal and who .reaJitt what Cluisrianity is all about, will rise to these challenges. They will realize that~ as with Jesus..a Christian is still an a1ttn in .a ~land. lbey will know that society bas to be ~jf they are to have a ~ worth living ... aod iftheir children ale 1D hoe any future at all 
' 
.~ 


---~---~--­

Observer 
c 
ac•oss a. -ap,mber-DOW II 
.ate 
0 

1. Leanaed bow to do: 4 wda. 
R 
Z. GJ'OOna 
s 
3. Cl'J' of dia­l'ad 
4. Straiaht 
route

s 6. Downy bird 
w 
6. 
Adorable 

0 
7. 
"-Pina­fore," famo111 


operata 

R 
8. 
Atbat 

D 
9. 
Berame an­rub': 4wda. 

10. BappJ' 

s 
11. 
Modena aJr­


eraft lZ. Staadard 
18. Faueet • 
18. Goq 
18. Skidded Zl. Gameon 
~ 

a Bit,aaafty 
k "Bitched" 
a_ ride 

li. 
EaYUionecl 

H. 
Tria 


17. 
Shoe par& 

18. 
Time period• Jt.Arraap. 


11. Tlualland coill 
14. Sehool OrpD· 
i&aUoa: abbr. 

11. Emeted 1'1. Scale DOte 
18. Mu'•ume 
Answers 
Molarity 
THIS IS ATEST-­

PAUL GERNI 
World Trick Shot Pool Champion 
wed., feb. 7th 

two shows: 4&7 pm 
In the billiard roo•-Lafortune basement 
FREE! ~ sponsored by S.U. social comm. 
{------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, February 6, 1979 -page 6 
• • .. Parking lots 
[continuedfrom page 3] engine and some of the cars took quite a while to getJoing, I had 
to limit the amount jumps that we were giving to those who really needed them because of the problem, Wall said, adding, ''It cost us over fifty dollars to get the truck ftxed." 
The Maintenance Department has been experimenting with a new type of attachment to their plows, a rubber blade on the bottom as opposed to the normal steel plate, and Thistlewaite feels that this has been a problem. 
... Board 

[continuedftvm page 1) 
Spons Commissioner Leslie Murdock reponed on the advance of Saint Mary's into another division of athletic competition next year. Membership in the new division would allow Saint Mary's to bestow 10 percent ofits athletes with "some son of sports scholarship.'' The athletic departi_Dent is waiting for feed­back from the board on the proposed scholarships. 
The councils fmal considera­tions included upcoming events, one of which is the Saint Valen­tine's Day "Screw Your Room­mate Party'' sponsored jointly by the Notre Dame nad Saint Mary's social commissions. The party will be held as a Mardi Gras funciton at Stephan Center on Feb. 14 form 8:30-12 midnight. 

Michael Molinelli 
I 
I 
I 
~~ 
l::r 
I<>
!t; 
:~
,.­



~">~'W§SSMS s~~ 
WE 'f1£ FliOM TJI£ BUT 1H/5 /S CARliOLL tAbMtNI5TRAnOW AND 1HfY . J.IALL ,.. WE'VE ABOLISHED . :ABOLISHED HUMAN HIGHT5 
The ND Student Players announce tryouts for 

EXPOS 


A comedy by Jack Sharkey Tues. and Wed., Feb. 6-7 7:00pm 
basement of LaFortune 
"We are probably going to go back to the steel plate soon." We had hoped that the hard rubber plate would help us in that it doesn't chew up the sidewalks and pavement as much, but it hasn't worked very well for us," Thistlewaite pointed out. 
''We are also beginning to use a new material on the hard packed snow and ice around campus. It's a type of sand, treated with slag, and right now we are using If-on the road between the stadium and D-2," explained lbistlewaite. We have tried to cut down on the use of cinder because it's a mess--it tracks in and it's hard to clean up," he added. , 
With regards to the past weekend's project becoming a regular practice, both Wall and 
Dan Molinaro to speak 
Dan Molinaro will address students and faculty of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's community on corporate resJ>O!lSibility rela­tive to 'the steel industry tonight at 7:30. Mr. Molinaro is a representative of US Steel in­volved in their Steel Fellow Program. The discussion will be held in 122 Hayes-Healy. 
Following the program there will be a reception at the Senior Bar. All of the recruiterswhich are on campus have been invited to the reception. 
• 

Tiiistlew3.ite were enthusiastic that it would. 
Thistlewaite said that he would be glad to do it all the time, while Wall said that it should be finalized and made a formal action. 
"It is a good idea and we should get t~gether to print it up. It went off very easily, and worked very well, to my know­ledge," concluded Wall. 
COC changes library hours 
The Saint Mary's Counseling and Career Development Center has changed its evening library pours. The library will now stay open on Tuesday instead of ~onday evenin_gs, through th:~ dinner hour until 10 p.m. ._.. 
A staff member will be availa­ble for help at this time. 
IXlonesbury 
by Trudeau 

TJE.LJIJERIIl au. 111/MA}€. JlJST. FR££-~/116. AN/) f.NB. 7HE .(j(Jff¥WCE OF 175 CHARJ5MATIC 



COMING UP: .4 LIBFRAL!S WlTH!R. !?£CAlLS HeR SHAME. 
\ 



The·Observer -Sports Tuesday, February 6, 1979-page 7 
[continued from page 8) 
tournament, DiSabato broke the team record for most takedowns in a season, his total of 86 this year eclipsing the mark of 81 he set last year. 
· Senior George Gedney, seeded first at 118 finished second for the third year in a row. Although he came close to pinning_ his 
opponent several times, Gedney lost by one point ofriding time in overttme of the championship 
bout. The score was knotted at 2-2 after both the re~ and overtime periods, at Which time George's opponent was awarded the decision. Gedney's two weekend wins, however, vaulted him into a tie for 6th place on 
Notte Dame's career win list with 50 victories. , Unseeded freshman John Iglar swprised the field at 167 with his outstanding performance. Iglar 
finished second, dropping a 10-8 decision to top-seeded Dennis Hareza of Carroll. Iglar recorded 10-9 and 6-3 en route to the championship bout. 
Lost&Found 
. 
FOUND: Calculator In Eng. Aud. Call Andy at 1541 to Identify. 
LOST: White Adidas B-ball shoes at track meet in ACC near hockey rink Friday night, 1-26. Call 1521. 
LOST: Gold Longines pocket watch. P111se return for a bi~ $ reward, this watch Is my entire life!. Jim 2164. 
LOST: At 823 Notre Dame Ave. party last Friday, aturquoise bracelet. Call 3150 to Identify. 
Lost in men's locker room of ACC during first week of classes: Blue ~~ts with "Northport" written on them. Sentimental value. Call John 1651. 
LOST: One gold watch bracelet last Thursday in the bar area. Call SUsan at 41-4536. 
LOST: silver dll.,ltal Witch _,. EIIDI­_.ng Building ndly nlgld. .._.,.. llfflrrlcl. Call John It 1756. 
LOST: Small green shoulder bag with valuable contents In the main circle bus-stop. Call 7838. 
LOST: One a-utch outside of the Ubrary 
about a week and a half ago. If you've 
seen this a-utch alive, call Mike at 1678. 
HP '21culator. Phone Reggie 7937 to claim. 
FOUND: 1 student basketball season ticket. Call 3608 to identify. 
LOST: Calculator Tl-~ around Feb. 2-3. 
Call BJ. 288-4152. 
LOST: Black "lamy" mechanical pencil with silver tip last Saturday In the South dining hall or E:. Bldg. I would ~eclate ~m to get It back. call 
uardo 28H 40 evenings. 
-

Irish wrestlers finished third in three weight classes, and all three won relatively decisive consolation final decisions. 
Irish wrestlers finished third in three weight classes, and all three won relatively decisive consolation final decisions. 
Junior Dave "Wdd Man"· Welsh scored a fall at 2:4 5 of his pre~ match before suc­cumbing m the championship semi-finals. Dave went on to win 
... Grapplers 
semi-final bout, Wdda pion¢ his Seton Hall opponent at 3:25 to advance to the coosolation finals. One weight class later, senior Bill Moore scored a 5-2 win in the 158-pound consolation finals to give the Irish their third straight third-place finish. Moore lost his first match to the top-speed and eventual tourney champion be­fore winning 10-3 and 10-5 decis­ions in the consolation matches leading up to the finals. 

The Top Twenty t1rii1mS In the AssodDd Press college tmblball poll, with first-place votes In pariWitheses, season records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17-16­
1~1~1~12-11·1~7~~2-1: 
1.Notre Dame (25) 1~2 1,m& ll.Texas A&M »4 496 2.1ndiana State (20) 20-() 1,003 12.Texas 16-5 376 
16-3 13.0tio Stdll 1U ,375
3.Duke (7) 984 
16-3 14.ArbnsaS 15-4 ~
4.UCLA 1918 
19-3 15.1owa 15-4 269
5. Louisville (2) 874 
·6. North Carolina 16--C 129 16.Aiabama 13-5 150 7.Syracuse 18-2 718 17.Vanderbih 15-4 140 19-3 18.Galigetown, D.C. 16--C ~129
8. Louisiana State 673 16-3 19.Temple 17-3 1249. Marquette 619 
14-5 20.111inois 17-5 :118
110.Michigan St. 498 

by default in the consolation bracket before registering an 11-5 decision in the consolation finals to capture third at 142. 
Then with the vocal assistance of Welsh, junior Mike Wdda scored a 10-3 win in his consolat­ion match at 150. to capture another third. Because of a low bracket draw, Wdda had to win four matches instead of the 
re~ three to place. He open on Friday night with an 8-6 decision over the number two seed and followed with an 8-2 win later on that evening to advance to the semis. .After losing his 
Notre Dame's final place­winner was freshman heavy­weight Jeff Morris who lost to John Carroll's Marion Alegmagno in his first and last tourney matches, thus earning fourth-place honors. Between those two losses Morris scored 8-2 and 10-7 consolation bracket decisions. 
''I was really t>leased with our performance this weekend '' remarked Irish coach Ray SePeta. 
''I think everyone did as well as expected, if not more so, parti­cularly C?J?Sid~ring our generally poor postnon m the brackets." 

'Winter Oassic' RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT 
Feb. 9, 10, 11 

two divisions-novice, open awards go to top four 4 places including consolation winner 
fee$8.00 

I 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.. two days prior I to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday. 10:00 a.m. to S:OO p.m. ~II 
cla:)51fieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the ma11. I I


Classifieds . 
~-

Accidently took abeige down coat, ''World NEED: 4 GA b-ball tlclcels to any THE NO STUDENT PLAYERS
Notices Wanted ­
Wide Sportswear" brand, from Corby's remaining home game. Paul 3115 or Will happens to super-macho movie last Thursday. Someone accidently took 3134. hero Jed Jericho who secretly writes my beige down coat, "Penfield" brand, kiddie books as ahedge~nst a sagging Nocturne Night Flight, WSND-89FM. last Thursday from Corby's. I had my car Interested in summer camp jobs? Badly needed: UCLA tickets, student or cner? Try out and fi out. Parts are Rick Lane features good tunes tonight. keys and basketball ticket In It, so please counselors-instructors wanted for pres-GA. any number up to 5. Please!!! call available for flu males and three return it. nm 8237. tige private boys and girls camps near Mike: 277-1071. femaJse In Jack Shirtey's hilaious 
Sid bus trip to Boyne Country $86, Kalamazoo. comedy 01111111 E•tmtl, the spring Includes lodging, meals, lift tlcketl and Lawrence Seeger Need UCLA ticket, any kind.. Rob ~uction of the NO Student Play&rs. lnnsporutlon. Leave Fri. Feb. 23 at 5 1765 Maple 287-6056. ry outs will be held Tuesday, Feb. 6th pm, return Sun. Feb. 25 pm. Sponsor -Northfield, Iii. 60093 and Wednesday, Feb. 7th at 7:00pm in
For Rent
Bendix Woods Ski Patrol. Contlc:t Corky I desperately need t'MI GA or student the basement of LaFortune. No axperi-Patton 234-9307. ST. LOUIS • Ride needed for anx tickets for the UCLA game. If I don't ence necessary. 
weekend this semester to St. louis. WII come through my sister will have my Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Bedford 3 room furnished apt. on ~e Ave., share expenses! Call Kevin 8631. hide! Call Kevin Dat 1787. To the girls from Holy Cross: 288-2107. Hours: 8am to 5pm. reference, deposit and $145. rent. Look for the unknown 1:; player to 1 
Tenant pays electric. 234-7670. Need ride to Chicago Friday afternoon, De:ately need UCLA tickets GA or malce his debut at the . Coming Experienced typist will do typing out of Feb. 9. Share conversation and stu ent. Call Pat at m-3422. soon. More later. home. Call 272·1401. Big country house for rent, furnished, expenses. Please call Marybeth 288-0049.
:?: to fen minutes travel, for next WANTED: UCLA tix. call Ed 1022. All sophomores wishing to deal for Mardi 
. 
I year. 277-3604. PART TIME JOBS: Excellent pay..work 

whenever you have time..no obligation.Furnished four bedroom house for rent, Write: SUMCHOICE, Box 530, State couple blocks froni campus for next College, PA 16801 ...and start earningschool year. 277-3604. next week. 
Mill roommate needed for N.D. apts. Nlld some lltl'l bnld ucl wiiH~ to $75.~ month plus utilities. call Matt wwll? Fri......... Sal ftll. 1Y1 234-• openings It the Huddle. Cllltact the 
mgr.4-5 bedroom, 2baths available in June or thereafter $300 mo. 232-9498, 291-4528. OVERSEAS JOBS: Summer/year round. 
Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, ~$1200 monthly. ~ses lfcd. Si~~ Free Info.-tte: 
C, box 14, keley, CA 94704.

For Sale 
Need 1 student or GA UCLA tbt Call Larry 8701. 
Help! I need tix to UCLA-NO game. Call Anne 4236. 
Personals· 
Dan, C~and ~ ~ 
Call for " good time" inner-tubing on Thursday. Tcwbush 
We know something you don't know ­come to the Augusta lottery meetings. 
Robert Redford lives In ~usia. Isn't that enough reason to check out? 
SMC juniOiS and sophomOres-now Is the time to start thinking of living in Augusta next year. 
Augusta Is a musta! I 
Llun, Hope that the sun Is shining today! Happy 19thI 
LJM, 
S,K,S 
Announcing the dawn of a new age lor mankind with the mmlng of the Red-Headed league. Watch this page lor details. 
To Jill in 419 Badin: 
We did not ask you outa:twa.. 
of your PROFESSIONAL . All of us 
Red-the color of llffl and love. Add some color to your life. ~ a red-head. 
Bill Berry vs. Kate Dudley Friday night • 
9:00pm.~.
Motto: Do It tlllwe'dle. 101 • Bl there. Aloha. 
Gras please attend the dealers meeting Wed. 6:3> in laForbn Rathskeller. 
u......... Llllltlr 1 a VIM. fill. 1 1 .... mLlflrt-
Tripp: I thought onty·dogs tite! I was wrong, Filii! 
B-P'ers promise to break parietals with kidnappers. 
To Joe a1d his buddies on the Holy Cross basketball team, 
~ on a super victory over Gral:e.. ! You guys are definitely 11!!! • • Adevoted fan 
P.S. Joe...sometime when you least expect it ... 
Fnxn room 151 8-P: Ow' room or yows? 
IIIADONIS ~ Ill 
Yes It Is true. The Alllltl T-shirts n ln. 
All winners of "1111 Altllll II .,. • 
T-sirts" call his agent at370 to~ 
fur deltvery. Weil' Itto the Mnl Gras..I 
Usten to Mills 9-11 pm Thlnday WSND. 
P.O.'s beware! Captain VIdeo and his space cad8ls will be out this Wednesday night. We are a dtvlslon of Spies, Inc. Remember the geese fly soultl. 
Scnlt O'hln-
How would you 111re~ 1Dgether n 

talebllll the 12th? we can have some TEA..•dnlss appropriatBty. If you ..rt to, please gtw ,.. one ring at midnight tonight. 
Dan Fogelberg 

Smile Jamie Dee! Thi~..., tlllt bad! Well...maybe not, ??!! Barb 
Thanb ~ fur a great 191h birthday. Cindy 
Lost Tl-3l Texas lnstnJnents calculator Fridly 1-26 in blue c:ase. Cll Cindy 4229. 
..,.,Co.~II-IIIMM-•1111 ' ·-'-' a rl 111
.........,_,......... 

GET BREATHTAKING PICTURES OF NO IN AU SEASONS -REMEMBER THE COTTON BOWL, THE BUZZARD, AND THE AUTUMN DAYS WITH PHOTOGRAPHS AT UP TO 113 OFF BOOKSTORE PRICES. CAll SEAN 1m. 
FOR SALE: EV-16A3-way 12" speakers. 
$85/pair. Tweeter control, still under warranty. Great condition. Call8518 more information. 
FOR SALE! Rugged winter boots. Excellent condition. Dark brown, size 8 
112. CAll Jeff at 1525 for Information. 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., SUn. !H Ralph casperson, 1:m Buchanan Road, Niles. 683-2888. 
Rlfrtglntlr fir Sill $&0, 1117, Ilk fir 
Tickets 
DESPERATE!!! Need student UCLA ticket. $$$ Gall John 8864. 
Will sell sultemates or provide much cash for UCLA student tldcet. call Mike at 1619. 
Need 1 UCLA ticket (student or GA). CAll Ken 1141. 
Need UCLA t1x GA or student for former NO football ~· Will pay megabucks!!! Call 1855. 
Need 1 student bleacher UCLA ticket. Jim, 3621 or 7469. 
HELP! ~ desperat~ needs 4 (padded seat) CLA tix • ! Please call7007. 

Pltlr. 
WANTED: 1or 2student or GA. UCLA 

FOR SALE: Marantz Amp. 70 rms watts tlx, will pay good$$$$. CAll F.J. 1222. per chan. (WI) and/or Fisher ST-&10 speakers ($400/pair). call Sundance: 2B-ball tix tor Dayton UCLA or LaSalle­
8916. 
call8661. 

HP-25 calculator, fully programmable, I need UCLA tldcets badly, call Matt scientific. Call1~. 
1780. 

Dual 12290 turntable with Shure car-
Desperately need 1 or 2 student or GA

trldge. Call Tim 1219. 
UCLA tix. call 41-4103. 

Pandora's Books offers many used books fro N.D. COli'S8S -locat8d behind NO Urgently need ~umber U.CLA tlx. Apts. 233-2342. Please call Tart. . 
• 


-------~--~-­
\ . 
t -! 
• 

Tuesday, February 6, 1979-page 8 
Two -mile relay squad returns 
r 

I from coast with impressive win
I 
by .Mark Perry ''Aragon ran second, and with­finished third in the half-ntile at Assistant Sports Editor in 80 yards we were in the lead. the Albuquerque J .C. meet. The\ When he finished, we still held a sophomore, who hails from Los ) ) small lead." Lunas, New Mexico, trailed only 
-. With strong performances 
''Then Burger, who ran third, Mark Belger, NCAA defending'\ from all four runners, Notre '\ 
Dame's nationally ranked rwo­did extremely well,'' Piane rela­indoor champ, and Gerald Mas­'\ terson, NAJA cham_p. Aragon's
) mile relay team took a giant step ted. "He ran against a fine 
towards an NCAA bid, as they runner, Greg Jones of the Mac-time of 1. 51.7 qualifies him for the NCAA indoor meet in March. 
won their event at the Los cobi Track Club, and held him off Angeles Times Track Invitational for a lap and a half. '' 
While their teammates werelast Friday. 
''When Jay (Miranda) got the racing to their wins on the west 
Rick Rodgers, Chuck Aragon, 
baton and we still held the lead, coast, the rest of the Notre Dame Pete Burger, and Jay Miranda, 
we knew we were going to win,'' track team competed at the running as a team for-the first Piane said. Western Michigan Relays. De­time ever, combined to propel the Aragon added another feather tails about this meet will be Irish past some top competition to his cap on Saturday, as he reponed in tomorrow's Observer. in their first trip to the presti­
gious indoor meet. I "The guys ran really well,"I said Irish Head Coach Joe Piane. 
~ "All four of them ran a really 
I competitive race."
-I 
"We asked Rodgers, who ledi off, to try and stay with the 'j leaders," Piane continued. "He I did just that. He finished his leg in fourth place, only five yards in back of the leaders." Rodgers was running this race for the ftrst time ever, and running the half-mile for only the third time. 
I 
I­
I' 

I I Irish overpower Ramblers 
I' I Notre Dame scored the first five 
I by~Perry Carolina State. The game will be II As.sista111 Sports Editor points of the second half on a televised in South Bend on I I three-point play by Bruce Flow­WNDU-1V, beginning at 9 PM... Overcoming some sloppy ball ers and a JUIDP shot by Kelly Notre Dame leads the nation in
I 
I handling with strong work on the Tripucka. Loyola could get no two categories. According to the 
I, I, boMds, Noue Dame dd"eated closer than seven points for the latest NCAA stars, the Irish are 
I' I i l.Dyola of Olicago, 84-66, in rest of the game. on top in field goal percentage, basketball action last night at the Jackson, who was voted the sh?Ottng at a .564 clip (.017
:l 
A.C. C. game's most valuable player, led potnts above Maryland's 1974-75 
The Irish committed 15 turn­the Irish with 18 points. Flowers NCAA season record), and in overs in ~ first haJf, but and Tripucka were the only other scoring margin at 21.9 ... Kelly outrebounded the Ramblers, 24-Notre Dame players in double Tripucka has now made 17 con­
I. 11, and held a slim 40-38 lead. figures, with 13 and 12, respect­secutive free throws over the last 
t 
f. 
~Dame finally tightened up ively. two games. The Notre Dame I, in the ~ond half, and Loyola Knight, who is among the top record is 36, set by Austin Carr inI came unglued with 13 rumovers five players in the nation in 1969-70. . 

I. 
of their own, as Notte Dame rebounding, could only gnb six LOYOLA [66]-Knight 9(H) 18, Shaw 3 ()-{) 6, cruised to the win. missed shots, but scored 18 Sprewer 5 0.0 10, Bush 0 <r2 0, Stampley 6 


i 
•'I wasn't pleased with our points to pace the Ramblers. 2·2 14, Floyd 1 o-o 2. Clemons 3 o-o 6, tunlOVttS in the first half,•• Irish Stampley and Sprewer ended up Brennan 21}-2 4, Liston 0o-o 0, James 22-2 6 coach Digger Phelps commented, with 14 and 10 points, respect­Sappleton 0 (H) 0. 31 4-8 66. · ' ''espo::ially since ~\V3Sil't ively. 
pressmg. We wtte JUSt OYtt­NOTRE DAME [84)-Woolridge 4 ()-{) 8,
Loyola coach Jerry Lyne left the 

anxious, anticipating the way Tripucka44-412,Laimbeer 31-17, Hanzlik 4
A.C.C. with a lot of respect for 

players~ gomg to lllOVe. We 1-2 9, Branning 3 1-2 7, Mitchell 1 o-o 2,
the Irish. ''No other team has 

-t ~ just too anxious about Wilcox 3 o-o 6, Jackson 7 4-4 18, Flowers 5
beaten us by more than 11 points.

trying to score.•• 3-313, Healy 1o-o 2, Hawkins 0o-o 0, Kelly 0
But Notre Dame was able to blow 

''But I really like the way we ()-() 0. 35 14-16 84.
us out in the end.'' 

dominated the boarcb in the first GAME NOlES: The Irish play 
half;' Phelps added. "We their fifth game in ten days on Halftime-Notre Dame 40, Loyola 38. 
pulled down 24 rebounds, and I Wednesday, as they travel to Fouled out-none. Total fouls-Loyola 16, by Michael Ortman took the 100-yard freestyle on his 
was J>!eased with that. • • raleigh, N.C., Notre Dame 15, A-11,345. Sports Wnier own.
to take on Nonh 

Neuber team could get The Notre Dwne swmruners Several freshman swimmers untrackrd in the early going, as continued to sparkle away from stood out in the meet with the the Irish rumed the ball over the home this weekend, as they Bonnies. Irish diver Wally
Notre Dame grapplers fare
first four times they came down boosted their road record to 4-1, Daniels took both the 1-meter the court, and lDyola couldn't with a 65-47 trouncing of St. and the 3-meter diving events, find the basket. At 16:25 the Bonaventure. The Irish, now 4-3 while Michael Shepardson,
well in weekend tournament 
Insb lead 2-0 on a pair of frtt overall, took 12 of the 13 events shared the glory of the 400-yard throws. from the host Indians in Satur­medley relay. Shepardson also 
The: two tealm tra<lro baskets by BillMarquard ily outdistancing second-place day's contest. won the 50-yard freestyle in 22.5 for most of the half, as the Irish Sports Writer Marquette by 28 1h points (84 to Leading the Irish attack was seconds. couldn't get up by IllOtt than six 551h), while Notre Dame trailed sophomore freestyler John The only other double winner points. Larry Knight, ~ Despite the seemingly difficult the Warriors by only two points Komora. The South Bend native for the Irish was record-holder rr.uly 20 points a game foe odds stacked against them, the in the final standings. Carroll's posted two victories, wins in the Donald Casey, the freshman Loyola, kept the Ramblers close. Irish wrestling team finished a talented Blue Streaks, who down­200-yard freestyle, the 500-yard sensation, who has already The 6-8 forward soxed 12 of respectable aiKl respected third ed the Irish 36-9 in a dual meet freestyle--and was a member of shaved 1.6 seconds offthe varsity Loyola's first 22 points. in the National Catholic Invitat­last weeken~ had four individual the first place 400-yard freestyle record in the 200-yard butterfly. 
After the Imh pulled ahead ional tournamglt at)ohn Carroll champions, including the tourney relay team. Casey won the 200-yard individu­40-34 with a minute k:ft, scores University in Oeveland over the MVP. Stx other swimmers won two al medley and also joined by Teddy James and lnoy weekend. Irish co-captain Dave events each to join Komora as McLaughlin, Schneider, and ~elf Irish~ Although pitted against the DiSabato, second-seeded at 134, multi-event winners. Junior Pat Shepardson on the 400-yard med­
I number ont: or two tournament grabbed tourney laurels in that Schneider swam on the 400-yard ley relay. 
I w ~to within two at the 
I seeds in six of their ten prelimin­weight class with a 6-5 decision medley relay team and took the The Irish will be swimming at 
I ary matches, the Irish still over Carroll's Chad Gross. In 200-yard breaststroke in 2:26.6. home for the f1rst time in over
I ~seven place winners ·­reaching the finals DiSabato scor­Rody McLaughlin swam on both
I. three weeks when they take on 
I =·~~~ 
I olfense in the half, scoring 12, one lirst, rwo seconds, three ed a fall at 3:53 ofhis preliminary relay teams, the 400-yard free­Marshall this Saturday afternoon 10, and 8 poims rcspcctivdy. thirds and a fourth. bout and notched 20-8 decision in style and the 400-yard medley. 
at Rockne Memorial. The meet is 
I-Saturday afternoon's semi-finals. Campbell joined McLaughlin on
Tracy J~ led a balanced Toumcv host John Carroll scheduled for 2p.m., and admis­
Irish attaa with 10points. dominated the competition, eas-[rontinued on page 7] the tteestyle relay team and also sion is free. 


Voted the game's MVP with 18 points, sophomore Tracy 
jackson displays some of his scoring form in a battle with a 
Loyola player. [Photo by Ron Szot.] 
Swi-rntners win on road trip 


