
• • • Top Ten -page 9 

VOL. XIV NO. 63 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
.......................... 
TI-IURSDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1979 
Iranian m.ilitants reject unanitnous UN resolution 
TEHRAN* Iran (AP) -The militants occupying the U.S. Embassy rejected as ''worth­less'' yesterday the Security Council resolution demanding release of their 50 American hostages, but the government radio said the U.N. action left open the door to negotiation. 
Iran's ruling Revolutionary Council met last night but issued no comment on the U.N. resolution, adopted unani­mously Tuesday. 
At the United Nations, a spokesman for Secretary-Gen­eral Kurt Waldheim said he believed the Tehran Radio broadcast reflected the Iranian position. The radio report noted that the resolution does not condemn Iran and warns 
~gainsr  U.S. military interven­ 
tton.  
U.N.  spokesman  Rudolph  

Srajduhar said W'aldheim was in telephone contact with Iran­ian acting Foreign Minister Sadegh Ghotbzadeh, who re­fused to attend the four days of Security Council debate on the 
U.S. 
crisis. 

U.S. 
officials have said they prefer a peaceful solution to the crisis, but Pentagon spokesmen said American naval strength south of the Persi Gulf has doubled with the arrival of the aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk and 


five support ships that joined a task force led by the carrier Midway. 
The crisis began with the Nov.4 occupation of the embas­sy by militants demanding President Carter return ousted Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi to stand trial for alleged crimes against the people. 
Carter has refused and on Sunday ordered the shah moved to Lackland Air Force Base in Texas from a New York hospital he entered Oct. 22 for cancer and gallbladder treat­ment. 
A spokesman for the embassy militants yesterday repeated Khomeini's charges that the Security Council was controlled by the United States. ''As far as we are concerned its opinion is worthless and will not affect us in any way," the spokesman said. 
The state-run radio, in a rare contradiction of the militants, said the council resolution "has left the way open for continuing activities within the U.N. frame 
work  and  inten~ive  efforts  
through  the  secretary-general  
to  resolve  the  differences  

through peaceful means." 
The broadcast said it regarded the resolution as ''merely of an 
[continued on page 3] 

Following SMC fire 
Hall staffs emphasize safety 
by Mary Kay Ley don 
The fire last Friday evening in Saint Mary's Holy Cross Hall has brought into focus, "a serious problem that may have 


Pursch speaks on alcoholism 
by Kelli Flint StaffReporter 

The Psychology Department held a colloquium on alcohol rehabilitaion yesterday afternoon at Haggar Hall. The guest speaker, Dr. Pursch, is a member of the board of the National Council on Alcoholism. 
Pursch received national attention because of his successful treatment of Betty Ford, Billy Carter, and Herman Talmadge. He was recently featured in People magazine, and appeared on the Phil Donohue, Tomorrow, and A.M. America shows. 
A former Navy Flight Surgeon, Pursch first developed an interest in alcohol abuse while treating alcoholic naval patients: "I saw many alcoholics who had no physical symptoms, and were not diagnosed as alcoholics until three years later, when the physical symptoms began to occur. I realized my own malfunctioning in overlooking the psychological symptoms of alcoholism, and decided to clesign a more effective method of treating alcoholics.'' 
Pursch said that using present standards, by the time alcoholism ts detectable medically, the patient has usually died. ''The reason most alcoholics don't get treatment is becam,e they don'r "feel" sick. The physiological symptoms of alcoholism are the last to manifest. Ir may take years for a physician to detect the signs of alcoholism. '' 
"Because of the difficulty in diagnosing alcoholism, doctors rarely refer alcoholics to treatment centers," Pursch said. "It's usually a concerned friend or relative who convinces an alcoholic to get help. At the center in Long Beach, California, 7 out of 83 patients were referred by a professional. the other 76 were referred by friends and relatives.'' 
Pursch also cited a major flaw in the treatment of alcoholics by professionals--controlled drink.­
ing. In a survey taken by Pursch, patients and 
their doctors were interviewed separately to 
determine why controJled drinking failed. He 
found that many patients complained that both 
they and their friends knew that controlled 
drinking was not a successful treatment for 
alcoholism, yet their doctors still used this 
treatment. The doctors said that the reason they 
used controlled drinking and didn't diagnose the 
patients as alcoholics and send them to 
tre~tmen~ centers is because they felt that the pattentsdtd not do as they were told, and lied .to thetr physicians about their drinking problems. Many also felt that if an alcoholic can find out why he drinks, he will be able to control his drinking. 
Pursch said that the reason an alcoholic resumes drinking after treatment is because he returns to the same circumstances that caused him to drink in the first place. For this reason Pursch also counsels the family and close friend~ of alcoholics. ''The people involved in an alcoholic's way of life offer the most input in intervening his illness,'' Pursch said. 
Pursch offered a simple but effective method for treating alcoholism. This treatment is used at his center in Long Beach, where the 76 percent syccess rate is the highest of any program in the United States. 
His program accepts. 2:ll alcoholics, .volunt~ered or ordered by a phystctan. The pattents hve in four-person rooms, because Pursch sees alcoholism as a ''disease of isolation.'' Patients are. then giv<:n c<;>mplete physical and psycho­logical exammattons. Group therapy sessions are held_from o~e and a half to three hours daily. The enure family of the alcoholic is treated in co~nseling sessions durin.g t~e alcoholic's stay at the center. No medtcatton whatsoever is 
!continued on page 11] 

cost lives," according to Liz Rooney, a resident assistant in the hall. 
Susan Tamborini, the hall director, said the fact that the students responded to the a­larm slowly or not at all was a serious issue and measures 
were  being taken  to  alert the  
students.  ''The  RA' s  called  
section  meetings  and  empha­ 

sized the fact that it may not always be a drill-like this time. This was the real thing.'' 
Holy Cross RA's, such as Marty Estrada, emphasized at these meetings the importance of ''knowing and following fire procedure and never taking for granted that it is a drill. It may not be." 
Many of the RA 's includingJran Pichler stressed that "the time the alarm is sounding is not the time to be making a decision as to whether or not to ignore it. It's time to just go." 
According to the RA' s ques­tioned, once the women in the hall understood that it was an actual fire, they were quick to leave the building. 
Another major concern of the students in the form was the speed with which security re­sponded to the call. Reports of students regarding how quickly security arrived at the scene after the call had been placed varied from five to nearly 
[continued on page 10] 

U.S. closes embassy 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The United States is closing its embassy in Tripoli until the Libyan government acknow­ledges responsibility for a mob attack in which the building was ransacked and burned, the State Department said yester­day. 
U.S. officials said the action does not amount to severing relations with the government of Col. Moammar Khadafy. 
The U.S. mission, which now numbers 10 members, will be scaled down to "a handful" and will move to another embassy or building elsewhere in Tripoli to look after the affairs of the 2,500 to 3,000 Americans in the oil-rich Arab country. 
Secretaries and dependents of Americans stationed at the embassy were evacuated from the country after the Sunday morning attack by a mob of about 2,000 Moslems demon­strating their support for Iran­ian militants holding 50 Amer­ican hostages in Tehran. 
U.S. officialg said earlier :his week they were considering taking action that could include a break in relations with the Libyan government unless the Khadafy government acct:'pted responsibility for the mob ac­tion and agreed to pay for damages to the embassy. 
But according to Wednesday's announcement, officials h~;ve decided not to sever relati;,;ns with Libya at this time. 
"W'e will cross that bri' !ge when we come ro it,'' s tid Hodding Caner, the State Department spokesman. About 10 percent of the oil imported by the United Stares comes from Libya. Purchases this year are expected to total $6 biilion. Oil officials here and in Libya were consulted before it was decided to suspend U.S. 
[continued on page 3] 


Ne-ws in brief 
Thursday, December 6, 1979-page 2 
Before concert 

Mother Teresa travels 
ND, SMC sponsor hunger meal 
A hunger awareness meal will tion to the Southeast Asian actively involved in two hunger be held tomorrow at 5:30 p.m. culture. Van Esterik has had a organizations: World Hunger in the faculty room of the South Cambodian family living with Year, and the Presidential 
to accept Nobel Prize 
Calcutta, India (AP)-Mother Teresa on Wednesday left her Dining Hall. The purpose of her, has herself lived in Thai­Commission on World Hunger.
adopted home in the slums of Calcutta for Oslo, Norway, the meal is to _provtde an land for two years, and teaches World Hunger Year, co-found­where she will pick up this year's Nobel Peace Prize on Dec. 
opportunity to reflect on the the course Food and Culture. ed by Chapin himself, is a 10 for her dedication to the world's poor. The issues of world hunger before After the meal, Denis Goulet, non-profit education and re­Yugoslavia-born Roman Catholic nun said she hopes to meet the Harry Chapin world hunger Notre Dame's O'Neil Chair search organization dedicated Pope John Paul II during a two-day stopover in Rome. 
benefit concert at 8 p.m. in the Professor of Education for to developing people's aware­Streams of well-wishers earlier crowded the h~adquarters of A.C.C. Justice, will address the issue ness of the root causes of her missionaries of charity order. Many garlanded the The meal will consist of a of world hunger. Goulet is a hunger. It primarily provides69-year-old ''Saint of the Gutters'' with floweres. 
simple diet of rice, bread, and well-known author and philoso­resources and curriculum ma­salad which will symbolize the pher of development and has terials for academic use, pub­types of food that are common lived in many different dt-velop­lishes the bi-monthly periodical to Southeast Asia. Penny ing cultures. The meal, spon­Food Monitor, conducts radio­VanEsterik, ND professor of sored by Student Government thons, and helps organize com­
Gary Mayor's limousine 
anthropology and sociology, and the World Hunger Coali­minity groups. Chapin, in will give a description of the tion, is free .;o all Notre addition to being a member of meal, its sources, and its rela-Dame/Saint M.uy's students the Presidential Commission on 
and faculty. \X'orld Hunger, was instrumen­
stolen Saturday night 
The meal is planned to sup­tal in the formation and passage plement the Harry Chapm of the commission through Con­world hunger benefit concert. gress. Ralph Nader called it in A fact often overlooked by a 1978 Rolling Stone interview
Texas Oub

Gary, Ind. (AP) -Mayor Richard G. Hatcher drove to dinner. 
Chapin's audiences is his in­"the most impressive lobbying in style -a 1978 black Cadillac Limousine-but he came home tense committment to the issue effort by an outsider I have everin a Ford. Late Sunday night, as Hatcher, his wife and . 
,

of world hunger. A minimum of seen.
another couple dined at the Soul Queen Restaurant in rides available $6,000 of the proceeds from The Chapin benefit concert,Chicago, the limousine was stolen. It's still missing, and Friday's concert will be given the pre-concert meal, andChicago police said it probably landed in one of the area's by the Student Union directly to Harry Chapin's life work are"chop shops." "It's probably in pieces by now," one 
Any student who needs a ride 

World Hunger Year. Chapin responses to world hunger as aofficer said. Hatcher got home after calling friends in Gary, 
home to Texas · Christmas 

does over 100 such benefit serious issue. They demon­about 20 miles away, for a ride. 
break, must contact Roman 

concerts a year. Not only does strate a commitment to better
Macia at 3746 by this Sunday. 

Chapin support the fight a­commumcatton and new di­
Those using the service must be 

gainst world hunger with gen­rection concerning the issue of
dues paying members of the

Uof C students list variety erous donations, but he is world hunger.
Texas Club. Members who 
need riders are urged to contact Macia. Texas Club T-shirts are now



of religious preferences 
available. To order, enclose $4.50 and size and send to BERKELEY, Calif. (AP) -Religion is alive and well at the Roman Macia, 2414 
Have you any questions ' 
University of California, but it's not what it used to be. Some Wynnewood Dr., Dallas, Texas "denominations" listed by students on their religious 75224. Make checks payable to 
about the University's role 
preference cards: the Polyester Pagoda of the Palpitation Notre Dame Texas Club. Pulpit, the Cosmic Yo-Yo Church of Evolutionary Oneness and The Holy Order of Our Lady of Perpetual Motion. Rev. 
towards minority students 
Gustav A. Schultz, pastor of the University Lutheran Church, 
~The Observer_ 

at Notre Dame? Get them
said other answers included None (but definitely not 
Mormon), Blue Oyster Cult, Born-Again Atheist, Fat 
Night Editor: Margaret 

answered tonight Thurs., Dec. 6
Worship of the High Cholesterol Order, Southern Pedestrian 
"Gutter" Kruse

and Church of God the Totally Indifferent. 
by University administrators. 
Asst. Night Editor: Deirdre "Editorializing" Murphy 

Minority Forum Thurs., Dec. 6 7: 30 
Copy Editor: Bruce "Pas­sive'' Oakley 

Flanner Pit For details (6873)

Weather 
Layout Staff: Kathy ''48 


point'' Vick . . Partly cloudy skies through Friday. Highs today and 
• • • L • I :!
News Editor: Mark ''Six Fnday m the upper 40s to low 50s. Lows tonight in the low 
pica" Rust 
' ~ 
30s. 
Editorial Layout: Tom 
Presents
"Tombstoning" Behney 
..,
> 
F~atures Layout: K. 
Connelly Sports Layout: Mark Perry Sports Copy Editor: Mike Ortman Typists: Tina Terlaak, Bill Swift, Cindy Grillot 

12:15 pm--MASS, with father griffin, LA FORTIJNE 
EMT: Marty Pippins and 
BALLROOM 
Mike Galvin Proofreader: Bruce "Typo"

2 pm--LECTURE, "imitation and theories of imitation in Oakley 
A Benefit Concert
renaissance music," dr. howard brown, 115 CROWLEY ND Day Editor: Katie Kilkuskie 
for the World Hunger Year
4 pm--SEMINAR, "multiphoton excitation & ionization in 
SMC Day Editor: Peggy

atoms & molecules: the new spectroscopy," dr. r.n. 
Schneemancompton, CONF. RM. * RADIATION LAB 

Ad Design: Bozo 

Friday Dec. 1 -8 P·M· 
Photographer: John "Over­

6:30 pro--MEETING, leadership training class, BULLA 
exposed'' Macor (Happy
SHED 
birthday Beth ... a little late) 

Notre Dame ACC 
Guest Appearances: Mick ALCOVE 
6:30 pro--MEETING* off-campus council, OFF CAMPUS 
Ma1_1cuso', : Scoop (Tim) Sullivan, John ''Lights Out'' 7 pm--FILM• "the politics of torture," ENGR. AUD. 
McGrath and John 

Tickets $6.50 and 5.50 
''Accomplice'' Smith 7:30pm--LECTURE* "current perspectives: women & the 
on sale at the ACC Box Office
church," dr. rosemary ruether, HAGGAR HALL AUD. 
The Observer [USPS • 1201 Is 
published Monday through Friday ex­

9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
7:30 pm--FILM* "an arc for our time," CCE 
cept during exam and vacatiln periods. The Observer is publisbtcl by tnt students of Notre Damt IIIII Slint

8 pm--PLAY• "the heiress," nd/smc theatre, O'LAUGHLIN 
also at the usual ACC ticket outlets 
Mary's Cllll9t. Sublcriptiea lillY be
AUD. 
purchased for S20 per year [$11 per semester! from The Observer. P.O. bn Q, Nitre Dame. llldlau 46556. s-et 

and River City Records Stores in
8 pm--ART OPENING* gonzalo s. reyes, ISIS GALLERY 
elias ~· paid, Nltrl Dame, Itt­
diana .

8:1) pm--LECTURE* "women as musicians in the 15th 
Tile Observer is 1 mll'llblr II tM 

South Bend and Misawaka
Alsociattcl Pms. All iiiNiductiln rights .,.. merwd.

century," dr. howard brown. LIB. AUD. 
1:: 

L I • Z L S I • H 
.. 

.. -... ----... --. . -----.... ,---------.. ---­
The Observer Thursday, December 6, 1979\-page 3 
Who concert 
• 


Chicago police increase security 
by Ke/!i Flint StaffReporter 
In reaction to the deaths of 11 persons at the Who concert in qncinnaci, the Chicago police wtll add 15 to 20 Special Operations officers to their regular security force for the "Who" concert Saturday night at the Amphitheater. 
According the Larry Caine, general manager of the Amphitheater, the crowd problem in Cincinnati is not likely to occur in Chicago. "We have reserved seating only at the Amphitheater, no general admission," Caine said. "The problem in Cincinnati was caused by the general admission crowd.'' 
Caine also noted chat the Amphitheater holds about 33 rock concerts a year, and there­fore maintains professional security measures. ''We have 80 off-duty police officers, and 130 ushers," Caine said. "The plainclothes officers all wear yellow jackets. The jackets make the officers identifiable, and concercgoers respect them," he said. 
Police search all people entering the Amphitheater for bottles and cans. "We feel char any bottle is a potential weapon," Caine said. "Our surveillance measures are strict, but necessary." 

Meteorologist details forecasting difficulties 
by]ohn Cassidy. 
The weather forecast for chis 
coming winter is, well, up in the 
air. A meteorologist can tell 
why a snowstorm has occurred, 
but as for long range predic­
tions, things are pretty cloudy. 
A~cording to Kenneth Brehob, assistant professor of Earth Sciences, "The weather is very hard to predict on a Ion~ term basis. Last year I predicted a mild winter and a week later the signs that I used to predict the weat~e~ changed. Long range predictiOns are verv unreliable and any over fiv~ days are marginal at best.'' 
J?ick Addis of WNDU agreed With Brehob. "It's too early for a long range prediction for the winter. There are too many variables to cake into account. The only prediction chat can be made with reasonable accuracy is that we will have above average temperatures for the rest of December.'' 
The signs for predicting the weather are the upper winds in the atmosphere called Rosby waves.. "These waves usually move In an east to west direction. This means mild weather. However, South Bend is at the east end of a wave trough. This is an upper air current that comes down from Alaska and up into this area. The wave trough caused our recent severe winters,'' Brehob said. 
Cyclogenesis is the name of the wave trough effect. It can be defined as the n urn ber of well developed wave cyclones in the upper air currents. These cyclones determine the weather. The more well deve­loped cyclones in the air cause a heavier degree of precipitation. ''These waves are not com­pletely understood,'' Brehob said. 
''These are not the only deter­minants of the weather.' Tidal pull, sun spot cycles, and ocean-atmosphere interactions are other factors in causing the weather," Brehob noted. 
''Last week's storm was a lake effect storm. This is the result of the water temperature being higher than the air temperature causing a low pressure zone that is picked up by a linsering northwesterly wind movmg co the east. What's happening is the moisture from the lakes is picked up and dumped on us in the form of snow. This should not happen later in the year when the water temperature and air temperature are the same," Brehob explained. 


' Militants
' ' 
[continued from page 1) 
advisory nature," sea ying with­in the Iranian posicion chat the Security Council action would be non-binding. 
Most Iranian newspapers gave front-page coverage co Sen. Edward M. Kennedy's com­ment Monday that the shah "ran one of the most violent regimes in the history of man­kind" before he fled Iran in January. 
Ettelaat, the largest afternoon paper, Lalled tile ,comments "a serious atta..:k against the shah and the U.S. government." 

Iranian Finance Minister A bolhassan Bani Sadr, formerly acting foreign affairs minister said Kennedy's remarks could have ''a beneficial effect on public upinion in Iran." 
The Massachusetts Democrat widely criticized by leaders of both U.S. parties for his re­marks, called yesterday for public debate on whether the shah should be granted perm­anent U.S. asylum 
• • • Embassy 
[continued from page 1} 
embassy o~erations. 
The decisiOn not to go further and co cut ties with the Libyan government had nothing co do with oil needs, spokesman Carter said. He said oil will play no role in whatever steps the United States cakes co pr<;>tect the embassy. 

Although rhe Libyan govern­ment did offer "profuse apoli­gies'' for the attack on the embassy, U.S. officials were not satisfied, calling the re­sponse inadequate. 
Videotapes of the concert will also be shown at several cheaters, along with a showing of the group's movie, Tommy. Amp~itheater security will not service the additional showinRs. 
Meanwhile last mght, the AP wire reported the 11 youths killed in the Cincinnati Who concert were killed by asphyxi­ation, according to a Hamilton County coroner. 
The coroner, Dr. Frank P. Cleveland, said in a preliminary report that the victims were pressed under the weight of others who stepped and fell on them. He said he would make an official ruling after testing blood and tissue samples. • 
"':'he City Council met Wednes­day to discuss ways to prevent a recurrence of the deaths. 
"There seem to be, on the part of mahy people, a 'witch hunt' to find the one cause,'' said Councilman Thomas Brush. ''There were many factors.'' 
City Manager Sylvester Murray said a cask force co study the incident would be put together by Friday. Some councilmen questioned the need for a task force, saying the c?uncil should do the investiga­tiOn. 
But Mayor J. Kenneth Blackwell said an independent task force that came back with "an objective, third-party anal­ysis'' of existing concert policy would negate possible criticism of a coverup by the city or operators of the coliseum. 

Music Dept. hosts lectures 
The Notre Dame chapter of Phi Beta Kappa and the Uni­versity's Department of Music will host three lectures by Dr. Howard Brown, musicologist and professor at the University of Chicago. Today's first lecturecoverins ''Imitation and Theories of lmttation in Renais­sance Music" will be held in room 115 of Crowley Hall at 2 
p.m. "Women as Musicians in the 15th Century" is scheduled for tonight at 8: 1S in the library auditorium. Tomorrow's lee­cure at 9 a. m . in room 115 of Crowley Hall will deal with "Modaficy and Tonality in Music.'' Brown has studied extensively in Italy and has edited a number of theatrical and m~sical journals. 


In addition to basketball, Digger Phelps discussed college lzfe andafterwards Tuesday night at Holy Cross Hall. [Ph;: to by John Macor[ 
Insty 
need printing ina hurry? 
100 -11 x 17 posters only $10.00 203 N. Main South Bend 289-6977 the'Wiz of theprinting biz! 

--~--~------~---~-----~~~-----~-~-----~---~------~------~­
TheJ\T 

1 "azz presents .•• Fri. Dec. 7 : LaFortune Lunchtime Concert with Rich Prezioso 11:45-1 p.m. 
L 

and ·that evening . . . Mike Daly 9-10:30 p.m. Rich Prezioso and Friends 10:30-? 
Sat. Dec. 8: Deck the Halls with ... 
THE THIRD ANNUAL CHRISTMAS NAZZ 9-? 
free admission sponsored by NDSU 
•• 1
c • • • • • • • • 
• 

Nd Senlot Class Ptesents: 



miSTLETOE mADNESS! 
a Christmas Semi-formal 
Thuts., Decembet 13 10pm-2am at Fat Wally's OPEN BAR JlO/couple 21 ID's ABSOLUTELY Requltedll 
Limited number of tickets sold only In advance at Lafortune r• 11-1 weekdays starting Dec.6 
• • o • a • • • •• 


The Observer Thursday, December 6, 1979-page 4 
Wom.en discuss progress tn new-organtzat1on 
and Anne .O'Healy, Women's Studies under Penny
by Rosie Lawrence 
van Esterik, the1:.:resources compiled under the University and the community under
The Women's Organization Penny Weiser, Renee Leuchten met at noon yesterday to and Liz Gilbert. These peoplediscuss the progress that it is may be contacted if anyonemakin~ in its drive to become wishes to make a contributionestabhshed at Notre Dame. 
or to help in any of these area.

Joyce O'Halloran, chairperson of the meeting, said she felt These special interest groups that ''progress is being made.'' will be run throush the 
women's center beginmng nextCenain specifics were handled ·semester . O'Halloran reported 
at the meeting, including 
that "people. were excitedchoosing a temporary name for about getting things going.

the group. "No one wanted to Peol'le are happy to see thingspin · down a specific name gettmg on the road.' ' 

because of the limitations 
The next meeting of theinvolved, so we decided to call Women's Organization will beourselves exactly what we are, held on Thursday, 1anuary 17,
a women's organization," 

in the Lewis Basement. ExactO'Halloran said. 
location and time will beIn addition to the name, a announced in flyers. Anyonelocation for the group had been interested is inv1ted to attend. 
A Smart Student ... at work fphoto by john Macor].
tentatively set. Renee Leuchten 1s dealing with the paperwork involved with find­mg a permanent space. By .. early next semester, the organ-· ization should be installed in· the basement of LaFortune 
Iranian situation provokes civil rights debate 
Center. There should also be a telephone number available at that time. WASHINGTON (AP) -The Two suits alle~ing the depor­that 29,000 Iranian students Iranians when you're not-check­
These women are forming the Carter administration's push to tation move discriminates a­have been questioned and that ing on anybody else," said Women's Organization because deport Iranians has set off an gainst Iranians have been filed -23,500 were complying with the Joseph Raub, a Washington of a common feeling that intense debate· over the con­one by three Iranian students, visa terms. They are safe from lawyer and longtime civil liber­women are a neglected minority stitutionality of enforcing immi­the other by the Confederation deportation, he said. ties leader. at Notre Dame. Through their gration laws more strictly of Iranian students. A hearing But Jervis said 4,000 have 
''It is not only a violation oforganization, they hope to against one nationality than on the two legal actions is violated the rules, most by ·civil liberties, but ludicrous,"

improve their campus and over against others. scheduled Tuesday' in U.S. staying longer than the visa he continued. ''If it would
all community status. Civil libertarians argue that District Court in Washington. allowed, and that the others' bring one hostage home one
the administration move vio­The debate began Nov. 10 situations are unclear and being
Anne-Marie O'Healy and 
minute sooner, one might con­lates the constitutional guaran­when President Carter ordered re-evaluated.
Linda Beard introduced the sider it. But it won't bring one

tee of equal protection of the a review of the immigration He added that 458 of those in
concept of reading groups, and hostage home. You aon't

laws. They say the Bill of status of some 50,500 Iranian violation have agreed to leave
stated that anyone interested in answer the outrages of the

Rights applies as much to aliens students in the United States. the United States voluntarily,
studying women as they appear Ayatollah by mistreating people 

as to American citizens. It was one of the first steps in and 26 have left already. The
in literature should contact in your own country. '' 

Administration officials reply the administration's efforts to deportation machinery IS gear­
them as soon as possible. This ''Aliens have constitutional

with a long string of Supreme break the siege of the U.S. ing up against the other viola­
group will be meetin~ as soon rights but not to the same de­Court decisions supporting de­Embassy in Tehran and free the tors.
as sufficient interest ts shown. 
gree as citizens,'' said Yale law 

portation of aliens who have Americans being held hostage In addition to students, an un­
Early next semester, the professor Robert Bork, a former
violted the terms of their visas. there. determined number of Iranians
Women's Organization plans to U.S. solicitor general. "Ifthese
The officials argue that they Complyin8 with Carter's or­in the United States on tourist
sponsor a forum on women's were American citizens, ob­
are acting only against those der, immigration authorities or business visas also face
athletics and Title IX. Any viously one couldn't single out
Iranians who have violated im­have told Irania students to dep~rtation when their visas
interested women should look an ethnic_ group."
migration laws. They concede. report for questioning by Dec. exp1res.
for information on that meeting however, that millions of per­14, and they have taken steps to Ctvil Liberties attorneys say But Bork said in an interv1e....

early next semester, or contact sons from other nations face no deport those found in viola­many of these Iranians risk that he believes Congree wo1.1ld

Joyce C?'Halloran for more 

immediate risk of deportation tion of their visas. death or imprisonment if they have the constitutional author­mformauon. 
~espite the same sort of viola­The student visas allow tem­return to Iran. ity to refuse U.S. admission toWomen who had done nons. porary U.S. residence and re­What troubles the civil liber­Iranians or any other nation­research before the meeting Some experts outside of ~ov­quire enrollment in a college or tarians most is the selective en­ality. And if a nationality could 
, suggested some ideas for ernment say the debate ratses reco8nized institution. Those forcement of immigration laws, be excluded from the country,future activities. Ideas questions never directly pre­holdmg student visas may not based on nationality. then the government can deport included improving the sented to the courts -and thus, work full-time. "It becomes sort of Ayatoll­those from a particular nationcounseling and placen1'8ht still unsettled in the -flf~. ' u Immigration Service spokes­ish to say we're going to pick' on who have violated the law, he centers under Anne Lacombe That may change, however. man Verne Jervis said Friday Iranian students, to single out said. 


-~
........................................--------------~------------------------------------------~------~-­
The Observer Thursday, December 6, 1979-pag~ 5 
State Departm.ent conunents on Soviet allegations 

WASHINGTON (AP) · The State Department reacted angrily yesterday to Soviet charges that the United States is turning the Iranian crisis into ''one of the most serious inter­national conflicts" of the post­war era. 
Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance personally conveyed his displeasure to Soviet Ambas­sador Anatoly Dobrynin. State Department spokesman Hodding Carter called the com­mentary ''deplorable.'' 
The Soviet charge appeared in the Communist Party news­paper Pravda less than 24 hours after the Soviet Union support­ed a United Nations Security Council resolution calling for the immediate release of 50 American hostages in Iran. 

The reaction to the Soviet stance came as the Carter administration worked to keep the focus offublic attention on the plight o the hostages and away from the deposed shah of Iran. 
Also, State Department spokesman Carter said the United States intends to pursue 
a  number of non-military  ap­ 
proaches  to  the  crisis  in  the  
coming days and weeks.  

In his criticism of the Pravda statement on Iran, the spokes­man said Soviet policy toward the hostage crisis 1s ambiguous, He called attention to the contrast between the Pravda 
0-C Council will not tneet 
The Off-campus Council will not meet this week. The group's next meeting will be January 17 at 6:30p.m. 
Phys Ed Dept. 
.. 

offers ski lessons 
The Physical Education Department offers downhill Skimg lessons to the students in the Physical Education Program. Occasionally the classes do not fill and upper classmen can be accomodated. 
The program will consist of four sessions. Each session will include 11/z hour lesson and 1lfz hours of free skiing time. This program will be held at Royal Valley Ski Area in Buchanan, Michtgan. 
It will be held once a week on Tuesday or Friday afternoons (4 Tuesday or 4 Friday sessions). The fee of $55.00 will include bus transportation, lessons, lift tickets, and equipment. For further information, see or call Brother Louis Hurcik (#6321) or see information posted in the Physical Educat:on Ofiice ·· 219 Rockne. The fee should be paid when pre-registe~ing. . Pre­registration (required) wdl be at Room 219 (Physical Education Office) at noontin:te~ _Monday through Friday. (Ltmtt IS 40 per session). 
commentary and the Soviet vote 
in the United Nations. 
Pravda accused the United 
States of using "crude military 
and political pressure" in the 
Iranian situation, adding that a 
''dangerous and alarming situ­
ation is shaping up." 
The seizure of the hostages by Iranian militants cannot be used as a pretext for ''actually resorting to 11lackmail against another sovereign state," Pravda said. 
"Instead of showing an ex­ample of restraint, responsi­bility and composure in the current situation, instead of redoubling efforts to find a reasonable way out of the situation without giving rein to emotions, certain circles are putting an even greater stake on force," it said. 
Israel reverses decision, -will not deport Shakaa 
NABLUS* Occupied West Bank 
(AP) · Under strong interna­
tional pressure, Israel yester­
day reversed a decision to 
deport Bassam Shakaa, the 
fiery Palestinian mayor of Nab­
Ius, the largest town in the 
West Bank of the jordan River. 
Several thousand people turn­
ed out to witness Shakaa's 
triumphal return from a prison 
cell outside Tel Aviv to Nablus, 
welcoming him with Arabic 
chants, honking horns and a 
shower of rose petals. 
Shakaa, 48, had been held 25 
days while he waged a legal 
battle against the government's 
expulsion order. Coming 
home, he said he was "very, 
very happy'' to be free and 
would be mayor ''today, from 
now. " 
The West Bank military gov­ernor, not the Israeli govern­ment, announced the reversal in Shakaa's case, and no high government officials were avail­able to explain the about-face on the issue. 
The decision to deport the Palestinian nationalist mayor was made by Prime Minister Menachem Begin's Cabinet af­ter .· Shakaa was quoted as identifying himself with the Palestinian terrorists who staged the 1978 coastal road massacre in which 34 Israelis died. He said his words were 
.. . d " 
twtste . 
In Beirut, Lebanon, the Pal­estine Liberation Organization issued a statement calling Shakaa's release a "victory for the PLO and the nationalist struggling mayors of the West Bank and Gaza. 
''The Zionist military authori­ties have finally submitted to th_e .will of the strug~li~g Pale­sttman people both mstde and · outside the occupied territor­ies,'' the statement said. 
Fears of a widespread erup-
Catnpaign needs "Workers 
All those interested in work­ing on the Reagan Campaign for the Mock Republican Con­vention are asked to contact Brian at 3185, Greg at 272-7773 or Mary at 7895. 
tion ofWest Bank violence were behind international appeals to Israel. The United States and Egypt had urged the deporta­tion be rescinded, and both the 
U.N. Security Council and Gen­eral Assembly passed resolu­tions supporting Shakaa. 
The decision eased nearly a month of tension in the Israeli­occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip, where 29 mayors and many more town councilmen resigned in protest and general strikes were held. 
For your future 


from 
SMU 

----------···-------~----~­
--·------­

o 
3 trimester, one year accredited program 

o 
high quality faculty 

o 
close interaction with business community 

o 
innovative approach to learning 


For information call toll free: 800/527-6817 
® 
Edwin L. Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University 
Dallas, Texas 75275 

· ., I I""~ 

BETWEEN PROMISE AND FULFILlMENT WE WAIT FOR YOU WHOSE NOW IS ETERNAL 
AIYENT 
Pennance Services Thurs. Dec. 6 .... 10:30 pm ...Lewis 
11:00 pm ... Grace Mon. Dec. 10 ... 10:00 ptn .. . 
Sacred Heart Church Wed. Dec. 12 ... 10:30 pm ... Howard 
10:30 pm ... Zahm 
11:00 pm ... Grace 
Thurs. Dec. 13 ... 11:30 pm ... Keenan Fri. Dec. 14 ... 10:30 pm ... Sorin 
' 


Thursday, December 6, 1979 -page 6 

ttort s 
A response for transfers 
Because I transferred to freshmen. students. and intramural sports and a Notre Dame two years ago, After justifiably complaining The most important lesson to whole host of activities that are Frances Regas' feature story about academic and housing be learned, from the available to th entire Notre "All Over Again" (Nov. 19) problems, though, Regas' perspective of a transfer Dame community. stirred emotions of sympathy, column loses all semblance of student, is that things are what It is often remarked that frustration and anger in me. rational argument. Most you make of them. Off-campus Notre Dame's student body is Regas brought up some obvious is her error in assuming life can be rewarding and, at too homogeneous for its own pertinent issues which the that off-campus students times, even more convenient good. At t~e same time, Administration would do well to cannot eat in on-campus dining thari on-campus life. Students however, 1\.otre Dame's finally rake action on. At the halls. Off-campus students are can meet all of the people they greatness stems in large part same time, however, she has offered a choice of a lunch meal would ever care to (and some from the fact that irs students misrepresented the plight of plan, a seventeen meal plan they wouldn't) in classes, come from every state in the the transfer student with and, for all of you ultra­campus-related jobs, var~ity country and many countries of pathetic self-serving logic in masochists, a twenty-one meal 
some cases, and purely plan. incorrect information in others. Another false assumption in 
Admittedly, the life of a Regas' column is that student upon first transferring off-campus students ''rarely to Notre Dame is not easy. visit the social spot on campus ­
P.O. Box Regis t ration d i ffi cuI ties, the Memorial Library." fulfillment of new requirements Although anyone who is there 
and the loss of credit hours are 
accurate examples of the 
academic rigors that transfer 
students encounter. Moreover, I can sympathize with the alienation that transfer ..&rudents feel upon arriving at Notre Dame. This exclusion syndrome is a ditect result of the Administration forcing transfers to live off-campus. Common sense dictates that the quickest and most effective way to integrate a student into the Notre Dame ''family'' (especially at a school where dorm-life and campus functions are so essential to that task) would be to require them to live on-campus. It seems only just. New transfers are required to make-up freshmen courses, and are assigned a low priority in registrauon, as freshmen are. Why not force them to live on-campus as well? Over­crowding, you say? Why not force seniors off-campus? This would provide an excellent opportunity for them to cope with the problems of fending for themselves in a home or apartment (problems that they'll soon face anyway) in addition to making room on campus for transfers and 
enough would be hard ~;>ressed to describe it as the social spot on campus (even the infamous second floor is not my idea of a good time) many off-campus people regularly make use of the Library. And, thanks to the Off-Campus Commission, the off-campus shuttle bus facilitates safe and convenient passage to and from this social mecca. 
The most tragic part of Regas' argument is that she obviously feels compelled to miss the variety of lectures, films and seminars that she mentions because they are held in the evening. For this she can blame no one but herself. If a student didn't attend any classes at Notre Dame, he or she could still receive an excellent education by partici­pating in even a minimum number of these events. It would be a shame, no --a tragedy, for an off-campus student to miss such events because that person felt it either inconvenient or time­consuming to attend. It is both unfair and unrealistic for Regas to expect Notre Dame to schedule these activities around unresourceful off-campus 
FLOC will ,,,, collect tonight 
Dear Editor: 
A special collecton will be taken tonight in the dining halls on behalf of the Farm Labor Organizing Committee (FLOC). Proceeds will help support the work of the FLOC with migrant farmworkers in northwestern Ohio. This Saturday, a group of Notre Dame students will travel to Tolt>do, Ohio to participate in a rally supporting the efforts FLOC has made towards improving the farmworkers' working and living conditions. 
At this time of the year, it is so easy for us to get caught up in our own little world here at Notre Dame and to take the rest of the human race for granted. When it comes to the food we eat, we give no thought to where it came from, whose labor got it to our table, and what worth it has for us. 
The Ohio Farmworkers Support Committee at Notre Dame hopes that the ND community will give generously to this special collection and will take time out to make the conscious decision not to forget the hardships faced by migrant farmworkers and their families --who have been and continue to be exploited so that we may eat. 

Anyone interested in attending the rally in Toledo should call 283-6536. The religious, labor, and community groups that support the farm­workers' efforts will be at the rally en masse to take a stand against the prejudice and fear that would reduce the farm­workers to less-than-human status. If you cannot be there, at least be conscious of the fact that we will be representing you there. 
Anne B. Huber 
Student complains 
on music policy 
Dear Editor: 


Within the past few years, the public image of the Univer­sity as well as the private interests of a few men with sufficient power to enforce..th.eir desires have too often abrogated the rights of the students, the needs of the community and the call of Christianity. Very few important decisions of the University involve the consultation of the students, even though the education of these same students is the very purpos.e of this academic lnStltUtlOn. 
A prime example of this ethic has been the recent situation within the music department. A few important men in the department have attempted to force their value system upon all those involved within the programs. Recently, the Chapel Choir, the liturgical ensemble of thr.: University, was coerced into participation in a concert for the music depart­ment. A group whose purpose 
Mike Rukavina 
the world. Transfer students are yet another addition to that potpourri and, as such, have an excellent opportunity to add their uniquie qualities to this, the greatest school in the country. The key to belonging is involvement, and only through this involvement can anyone, off-campus or on-campus, become a true member of the Notre Dame community. 


is liturgical ministry should not be asked to sing within a performance context. The department has also attempted to require the Chorale and the Glee Club, both concert groups of Notre Dame, to sing at the 
10:30 Eucharist at Sacred Heart Church. Groups which were created for concerts should not be required to act as ministers of song. Each group has a set purpose, and does not wish to involve itself in the activities of the other sroups. In making these deciswns, the department did not at anv rime consult the members of these musical groups. 
The music department has used various tactics to enforce these decisions, such as threats to dissolve certain groups and even the termination of employ­ment of faculty members sympathetic to the views of the students. It seems that a University which professes to be Christian should try to consider the needs of the members of the community. 
Kevin T. Paulson 
Student disagrees 
with transfer article 
Dear Editor: 
The feature story ''All Over 
Again'' (Nov. 19) is the prime 
example of a typical ND-SMC 
attitude: "Let-the-University­
be-responsible-for-my­
welfare,'' and I am mighty tired 
of it. 
Since I transferred to Saint 
Mary's in September, my life 
has changed a great deal. As a 
transfer student, like the author 
of "All Over Again," I have 
faced registration difficulties, 
"~ndured" off-campus living, 
mtssed out on several 
meetings, lectures, and 
concerts, and generally felt like 
I don't belong. 
However, I disagree strongly 
with Ms. Regas' solution, and I 
quote: ''The responsibility of 
[continued on page 7] 
administration of either instirurion. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 

_The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Edttor·rn-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor................ ..Mark Perry represent the opinwn of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Edrtor .... .Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46.5.56 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Edttonal Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor ..............Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senror Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ....... .Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor.................... Mark Rust Production Manager ..... John McGrath of the University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor .... ;............ Mike Shields Advertrsing Manager ......... Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letrers, is SMC Executive Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Controller................. .Kc:vin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brassil Circulation Manager......Grc:g Hedges 
: .. t • •__ • .._ & 
•

., . . .. .­
~ 

The Observer Thursday, December 6, 1979-page 7 
Tenure interview : 
...........es Coiner 
Editor's Note: The following is the second in a sen'es of columns examining the tenure process at Notre Dame. The sen'es is sponsored by the Student Committee on Tenure. 
Miles Coiner, an associate professor in the co-operative Department of Speech and Drama ofNotre Dame and Saint' Mary's College, is .now serving his final year as a member of the Notre Dame faculty. Last 
spring, he received notification from the vice-president of Saint Mary's College that his contract 
had been terminated and that, 
after the 1979-80 school year, 
he would no longer be employ­
ed by the Department of Speech and Drama. He did not come up for review before a tenure 
committee within his depart· ment; as Coiner puts it, he was simply "fired." 
Coiner has noted many similarities between his own dismissal and the dismissal of many of the professors who 
were denied tenure last spring. The news that he had been dismissed came to him quite suddenly and unexpectedly, and he was not given specific reasons for his dismissal. 
Because of these occurences, Coiner has had to try and determine, in his own mind, 
reasons for his dismissal and the dismissal of his colleagues. The conclusions he reached 
were the subject of an interview with Coiner held just before Thankgiving. 
Coiner believes that the ma­jority of the decisions concern­ing which faculty members will stay at Notre Dame and which will not are made on the basis of "politics." He sees the struc­ture of the University as a predominantly political one; "political in the sense that department chairmen are se­
lected on the basis of whether or not they can 'get along' with their superiors in the dean's office, deans are selected on the basis of whether or not they can 'get along' with their superiors, on up the line all the way to the top.'' This structure moves right on down to the level of faculty membe~s. says Coiner, and the faculty Is largely chosen on the basis of whether or not they can get along with the department chairman. ''There is a definite trend," he asserts. ''The university wants to run smoothly on a political level. But smooth running has no­thing to do with the quality of the educational program.'' 
"In fact," he continues, "if you look at the pattern of this year's decisions, a great manv of the people who were 'axed' are people who are in some way defined as teachers of quality and at the same time as sort of dissidents within the institu­tion. And I'm going to argue that the ~o go together. If someone Is gomg to be a good undergraduate teacher, they're going to be effective because they've got independent minds, and independent minds have a tendency to be independent minds not only in the class-. room, but out of it.'' 

Coiner holds that the Liberal Arts have suffered the most from Notre Dame's administra­tive structure, which he defines as ''authoritative and hierarchi­cal.'' He points out that the purpose of a liberal education is 
not to prepare a person for a specific job or role in society, but rather, to create people ''who are independently mind­ed, who question, who are literate, who understand some­thing about the place of the world, of their society, of themselves in that society.'' 
These are the people, ob­serves Coiner, who have been trained to be members of a democracy; they are P._C:ople 
Theresa Rebeck 

who have been trained to the government, which means decision-making process. function as independent, con­that the University is becoming "Really, any place that takes its tributing members ofa society. a handmaid to the corporation undergraduate program serious­The problem is, however, that and the government. It basical­ly does that," he claims. these people do not fit into ly turns out peoJ?le who are Coiner also believes that some "authoritarian, hierarchical" going to be gnst for the power must be taken away from structures, such as that which corporate, government depanmenc chairmen. "Their exists at Notre Dame. Thus, wheel. .. " power is virtually unchecked by the students who opt for a Coiner admits that this ten­anyone except the deans, and ... Liberal Arts education and the dency away from the Liberal what you get is a series of faculty who teach the Liberal Arts, and towards practical fiefdoms where the department Arts become, in a sense, the training seems to be irreversi­chairman is the baron and the outcasts of the community, the ble--practically speaking, the members of the department are thorn in the side of an author­University has to get its money his knights.'' Coiner feels that itarian administration. somewhere--but a reversal is, this structure is "the Achilles' 
At Notre Dame, says Coiner, he feels an absolute necessity. heel of the University'' because the Liberal Arts are becoming "To be educated (through a very often the department "the whipped cream on top ot Liberal Arts program) IS a chairmen are brought into the the cake,'' no more than an dangerous thing today... '' he University by the administra­element of education which has admits. "It means that one tion and then given complete been added to the training of does not accept givens, that one freedom within a department the business student or engi­has an open and questioning they are JUSt be~inning to neer "so that they don't sound mind. And anytime one has an know. Such unlimited power, like Philistines when they're open and questioning mind, say Coiner, is simply too dan­talking to Harvard graduates,'' one really places oneself gerous. "I was fired quite Coiner insists that this ethic against the wall in ·terms of simply because I did not get must be turned around if Notre 'getting in.' And if that's the along with . my department Dame is ever going to consider goal of the culture, as it is in chairman," he states. "And i~self a truly educational institu­this culture, then to be truly that sort of thing happens too tiOn. educated is to be an anomaly. often around here.'' 
As thing stand now, he says, That degree of autonomy is Coiner is unsure about his the University has become no­unsuitable .Butthe contradiction plans for next year. He is thing more than an extension of is: you cannot run a democracy writing his second play--his a capitalistic society. "I don't without that. Because a demo­first play, Amphytrion '79, was believe that the authoritarian cracy without a cinzenry which produced by the ND/SMC nature of this university stems is autonomous and independent Theatre last spring-· and, he from its connection to the and thoughtful is not going to says, he would like to continue Catholic Church, not these function. it just simply isn't, writing for a while. He admits days," Coiner is emphatic. and that's the crisis we're he is bitter about teaching, and ''Now, some people will dis­facing in this country today.'' he is unsure as to whetl•-..:r or agree with me on that point. Coiner thinks that if student not he will go back to it. "Not But I think that what it ema­opinion were considered in in this environment," he sighs. nates from is the fact that· this administrative decisions many "Maybe in another environ­University has thrown in its of the destructive trends he ment, in a more open and free chips, wholly, completely, and observes at Notre Dame here and democratic environment,!' d absolutely, with the corporate would reverse. The first step to feel differently about it.'' state... Their money now comes involving the students, he says, Coiner shakes his head. "But from the corporate sector and is including them in the tenure not here.'' 
Is someone missing in your classroom? 
· Ricardo Samaniego 
what is the real essence of this the quality of the educationWho is really responsible for 
material, and who is respons­
the quality of education that they receive? Traditionally, 
now exists in our American ible for the discrepancies? An University students have been universities? The general trend attempt to answer these ques­the first to protest and the first 
tions would be a good exercise to voice their discontent whenappears to implicate university 
in polemics, but the/oint here
administrators and other indi­pertinent issU~'-come up--a 
viduals in policy-making posi­goes beyond a har and fast case in point is the reaction of 
tions. But is this really the answer. Instead, the question University students tnward the 
is to do with who is really being 
situation, or have students too Iranian situation. 
cheated when limited
long enjoyed the luxury of only a The series of questions and
number of minorities are en­
being immune from this re­issLies outlined in this article is 

rolled in our Universities. It
sponsibility? If the latter is intended to evoke som ~ re­

appears that a student is only
correct, then perhaps the state­sponsibility; hopefully the read­

superficially enjoying a proper
ment that individuals tend to er will subsequently engage in

education when the percentage 
escape freedom by avoiding a eersonal challenge to sub­

of minorities in the ~Classroom is
responsiblity needs to be reas­scnbe to the deficiencies that

embarrassingly _different from
sessed. 
are evident in our American

the percentage of minorities in
In 1978, the HEW Office of universities. The mature stu­

the "real world." Graduates
Civil Rights, released an 1,800 dent attending one of our

from our universities inevitably
page, two volume journal en­universities is severely inhib­

will encounter jobs that require
titled' 'Data on Earned Degrees ited when the experiences

them to make decisions pertain­areConferred from Institutions of limited to only a certain type of
ing to minorities. It seems
Higher Education by Race, student.

only right that sufficient a­
Ethnicity, and Sex, Academic Year 1975-1976.'' The figures mount of exposure to these Several positive things can 
presented reveal an outra­individuals shoud be required ensue from students requl:sting geous discrepancy between the or demanded. This type of to have the opportunity to be 
total number of degrees gran­classroom experience can cul­exposed to "real life" situa­minate in the clarifi•:ation of tions, as well as from personal
ted and the number of degrees generalities that so of~en end efforts to encourage minoritygranted to minorities. Ironical­

ly, in some cases even for­up as stereotypes or, 10 some participation in our un~versi­eigners (non-resident aliens) cases, ill-feelmgs. Indeed, ties. The process is ·not a 
were granted more degrees when experiences of this type difficult one; it merely calls for than Hispanics. His_{>anics ensue, education will begin to the student to adhere to ine­take its designated role serious deficienci~s
ranked extremely low m all qualities and that 
ly instead of merely enjoying are evident in our campusescategories regardless of the the fame attached to it.
field of study considered. ~n a before becomins-indignant at 
With this in mind, why has i. what is happen!ng outside of
geographical comparison be­tween the midwestern atid the always been the plight of th, them. The sacrifice is minimal, 
minority to request this type ot
southwestern universities, 138 considering the result of a Hispanics out of a possible interchange and experience. well-rounded education that 
when everyone attending the will enhance the Greek's7,782 students (1.8%'. were university is being equally de­"Heuristic" approach of inter­granted a Doctor's Degree. 
nied this opportunity? Is it cha~geable exploration and ex­It is obvious that a tremendous 
hypocrisy? Is it ignorance? Or penences.
amount of money was spent to 

does anybody really care about
make this data available, but 
[continued from page 6] 
resolving the troubles ot transfer students rests with the University ... " This "Big­Daddy-University-will-take­care-of-me'' syndrome will lead to an even more damaging syndrome: "Let-Society-take­care-of-me." This syndrome is already prevalent in our society as demonstrated by welfare and unemployment checks. 
We often hear the statement, ''College is preparation for life." Will the typtcal ND-SMC attitude prepare us for the kind of life we, as college-educated citizens, desire? 
After the last note of the Alma Mater fades away on Graduation Day, who do you think is going to take responsibility for finding our 
jobs, buying our cars, transporting us to social and cultural affairs, paying for our 
"party space," or keeping us out of jail for possession of narcotics ... ? The list is 
endless. And the answer? Well it most certainly will not be the University. 
Diane Franz 

• • . transfer 
Group thanks student help 
Dear Editor: 
To all those who brought the world of a Cambodian refugee into their lives during the urgent relief campaign prior to Thanksgiving break--a warm and appreciative thanks. An abiding spirit of Christian unity felt its presence when hundreds of students pulled together to address the urgent cry heard from around the world. Com­prehensively, overS 10,000 were 
raised over a period of three days. The funds are at the disposal of six Holy Cross sisters who are ,presently ad­ministering medical care to refugees on the Thailand bor­der. 
The response of the student body proved that people can think globally and act locally. Again, thanks to those who had faith enough to support the relief campaign either through their time, contribution, or prayer, for in a world where there is faith, there is hope for those in need. 
Students Concerned for Cambodia 

Features 
Thursday, December 6, 1979-page 8 
Musicviews 
·­
-·-~~-~~­
Joe Jackson 
I'm The Man (A & M) 

I first heard of Joe J ~ckson last May when someone handed me n copy of Look Sharp. That album remained on my turntable for most of the summer. Now, six months later I'm The Man and it's the same thing over again. Everything that impres­~ed me on Look Sharp has only tmproved. Joe Jackson looks sharper than ever. 
The subjects Jackson touches on in I'm The Man are much broader than those in Look Sharp. He's done enou~h reflection and is ready to examme the world outside of his personal life. Once again, the songs are not complex yet they hold a starkly meaningful and thoughtful analysis of things as they stand. "Friday" is a prime example, looking at the "flower child" who has sold out to the buck and works m the factory: 
"She don't care no more She don't need to fight it She don't care no more She gets paid on Friday'' 

"Kinda Kute" is another simple yet complete examination, this ttme of the guy who's hung up on the dancing queen who's more concerned about her dancing style than the guy she came with. Everyone knows the type he's talkin' about; once again Jackson writes stuffvou can relate to. 
Lyrics aren't t'he only thing ) ackson has soing for him. He has a way of writmg infectious rhythms t~at are done naught but jusuce by hts cohorts. I never liked reggae, but somehow I find myself enjoying "Geraldine ahd John" with its reggae-rock overtones. The musical style varies throughout, from the mellow sensitivity of "It's Different For Girls" to the out and out hard driving rock of ''I'm The Man." Jackson proves that he's not limited to any one s~yle but c~n work equally ~s well wah mustc of varying mfluences. 
Two cuts on the album can be dC?scribed only as excellent. "It's Dtfferent For Girls'' is sensitive Jackson at its finest, examining the pro_blem o~ the boy who wants to get senous wah the girl who doesn't. "The Band Wore Blue Shirts" ex­ami~es with equal intensity the inner feehngs of a lounge band musician w~o strives for bigger and better thmgs, only to realize that his music is only background for drinking. 
A tiny bit of the anger that was present on Look Sharp surfaces in "On Your Radio." It's what we 
thought of in school; that some day we're going to be something and have the last laugh on those that wronged us: 
''/got your names and numbers 
filed away I've grown up See me hear me Don't you know you can't get 
near me 
You can only hope to hear me on your radio '' 
It's tunes like this and "Is She Really Going Out With Him" from the first album that make you feel that either Jackson has had a rocky personal life or else he has mastered the art of musical sociology. 
When  I  re':tewed  Look  Sharp  I  
made  the  m1stake  of  comparing  
Jackson  to  Elvis  Costello.  I  was  

wrong, there is no comparison. Jackson surpasses Costello in every 
category, including live performance. It's really wrong to classify Jackson as new wave also. I somehow get the feeling that his material will outlast the current fad status of new wave (don't get me ~rang, I love the stuff). Joe Jackson 1s out to prove a point: he's gone past the "Amateur Hour" he's the man. ' 
Mick· Mancuso 
,......._.,_._---·----­

Rufus & Chaka Khan 
Masterjam ( MCA) 
It's just another case of a good 
group gone disco. Chaka Khan and 
RUFUS new release Masterjam is 
just another addition to that popular 
genre called disco (which is actually a 
combination of a frustrated reggae 
tune and a syncopated dirge). 
Anyway, the topic is RUFUS. In 
1972 RUFUS and Chaka Khan first 
joined forces. One of their assaults 
on an unsuspecting music world was 
Rufusized, an organic blend of R&B 
pop and jazz. ' 
Chaka Khan is one talented lady. 
On. Masterjam, she displays the 
un_tqu_e soulful, throaty and simply 
g~tppmg vocal style which many 
dtsco queens have tried to imitate. 
On rhi~ album, unfortunately, she 
!a~ses. mto a sickly imitation of the 
tmtrauons of her classic style. 
On cuts like "Masteqam" and 
"What am I Missing?" Chaka 
reverts to the old style in the 
back9round vocals and in ''Body 
Heat ' she has the opportunity to 
show off her abilities within the 
narrow confines of the chosen 
mediun:t. Ultimately, however, the 
result 1s dissaJ?pointing, especially 
when one constders what she had 
done in the past on songs like "You 
Look Like a Friend of Mine" and ·· ''Sweet Thing.'' 
One suprising adequate and 
welcome contributor to the album is 
~ony ~aiden on guitar. Some 
1mpress1ve work on ''What am I 
Missing?" actually saves the song. 
He and bassist Bobby Watson could 
do some beautiful things together, 
and have, were it not for Bobby's 
propensity at present to crank up his 
amp and send disco beats coursing 
through the tortured wires. 
Matden's guitar on ''Heaven 
Bound'' and Was ton on bass do offer 
a respite of vaguely R&B music with 
some terrific orchestration of the 
quality you would expect from 
someone with so classical a back­
g~ound as producer Quincy Jones. 
Ntce one. 
Of the glitterball disco variety are 
tunes "Walk the Rockway," and "Do 
You Love What You Feel?" 
complete with funny whistles, brassy 
horns, heavy bass, and nasal 

~ackground vocals. The lyrics are mane. 
''Dancing for Your Love '' ''Any LovC:' and "Live in Me" (yes, you ~ay •~?fer whatever you will from the mtenuonally suggestive lyrics -I have better ways to get my thrills) are ~ance music. Nothing more. I d~ admu, however that the disco beat is appealing. f'?r dance .purposes. But d1sco mustc 1s not senous music -it is formula music. There is no spontaneity, no inspiration -there is no art, no craft. 
Drummer John Robinson -well this is the man responsible for tha; thudding sound on the album. To be fair, however, on "Heaven Bound" Robinson displays a great deal of talent and versatility. He is able to take advantage of the pauses in bass vocals, and guitar to fill in the break~ wit.h . interesting percussive vanauons. 
"Heaven Bound" is definitely the best piece on the album for originality, for technical skill ... these may be hard words, but the group is heaven bound by way of hell. If they can pull themselves out of the disco pit, RUFUS may be able to regain some musical respectability. 
K. Connelly
·----· ,_---b-­

The Police 
Reggatta de Blanc (A & M) 

If you were to sum up my musical tastes as of this_ very point in time, and come up wtth an "ideal" band which I could listen to all day, there would be only one which would fit the bill. I'm not exactly sure why but I'm certain of the outcome· the ~hree platinum-haired reggae-ro~kers from the 51st state, Great Britain -THE POLICE. . Most new groups come off poorly m concert; unconfident a little frightened, too eager to pl~ase. This was not the case with the Police· possibly because they're not exactly what you would call a new band. They've been together longer than they would probably admit to, and only recently has their commercial success reached our shores. They gave off more energy in concert than any of the so-called supergroups which. bomba~d us everyday on the decaymg medta known as radio. 
Their second A&M release ts Regatta de Blanc, and I refuse to compare it to their first album -to me they are wo.rlds apart. Don't get me wrong; I hke them both but for different reasons. The fi~st album seemed like there was too much emrhasis placed on rockin' and rollm', a':ld that'~ okay but somehow I get the tmpresston that The Police are much more comfonable with the material on their second album. They can rock with the best but that's. not ~heir strongest suit. I:m no sure tf thts classification is correct ~ut reggae-rock is what the Police ar~ mto, and they do it very well, thank you. 
The r~ggae beat is something thats always mterested me, and it's very hard to describe. Its very clean and fr~sh and it does not have to get mtred down in the heavy-metal­
. sledgehammer-blowyourshortsoff­a~id-rock-and-roll. Instead it is truly dtfferent, and so are The Police· they don't have to pretend that they're different. 
The ~olice don't have any strong underlymg messages, their songs deal with the ironies of human interaction, and the desire for companionship from the opposite sex. The title song is a freee form instrumental featuring some strong drumming by Stewart Copeland. . "it's Alright For You" describes the lament of one who has been down long enough and wants to know why things _that are alright for others are not alnght for him. ''Not Time This Time" ta~es the opposit tack; the character m the story ts tired of being pushed around, and finally stands up, to say he will not take it any longer. 
''Bring on the Night'' is my favorite from the album. Andy Summer's guitar and Sting's bass work together here better than they have anywhere before, and it brings the story line across and sets the proper mood perfectly. We can all find comfort m the night to wash away the painful and glaring mistakes and faults that the day ~akes all but too apparent. Night gtves us another chance to pull our strengths together and try again. 
I recommend this album to any of you who are bored musically and need something to reaffirm your behef that the music industry is not stuck in the sam old worn-out groove. 
That's what I felt up until last spring when I heard the first Police album. Merry Christmas--------Hippie New 
Year. M• h l A 
te ae • Korbel 


Pink Floyd 
The Wall (Columbia) 
_. It's the best album Pink Floyd has 
done since the classic Dark Stde of 
the Moon. 
Musically, the new double-set by 
the world's most innovative rock 
group is a study in rythyms and a 
synergy of musical styles gathered 
from every previous Floyd Album, 
wrapped up m a superior production 
package and delivered to your door in 
time for Christmas. Conceptually, 
the . ro~k-opera not only tells a 
fascmaung story, but emphatically 
states the condition of modern man 
and art in an emotive tone that leaves 
the ~istener intellectually assaulted. 
All m a~l, The Wall is a surprising, 
yet logtcal progression of musical 
exploration for Pink Floyd that caps 
the 70's with an ultimate statement 
o~ i.solation while being very enter­
tammg. 
R?ger Waters, bassist and principal 
wnter for the band, has been 
obsessed with insanity and lonlieness 
for the past four albums. Dark Side of 
the M_oon, besides being the best 
recordmg of the 70's, investigated 
the results of insanity in contem­
porary society. Animals dealt with 
the human abuses caused by in­
human torporate power. Wish You 
Were Here mourned the loss of Pink 
Floyd's founder and principal driving 
force in its early days, Syd Barrett. It 
was the loss of Barrett to insanity that 
has fixated Waters' on the fragility of 
[continued on next page]. 

fhe Observer 
Musicviews Thursday, December 6, 1979 -page ·9 

K. CONNELLY -Features Editor 
Blood on the Tracks -Bob Dylan Live at the Ftllmore East -Allman Bros. 4-Way Street-CSNY Lay/a -Derek and the Dominos Bn"dge ofSighs -Robin Trower Crystal Silence -Return to Forever Dark Szde ofthe Moon -Pink Floyd john Barleycorn Must Die -Traffic Bn"dge Over Troubled Water -Simon and Garfunkel Apocalypse -John McLaughlin, Mahavishu Orchestra, London Symphony Orchestra. 
MICK MANCUSO -Music Editor 
Dark Szde ofthe Moon -Pink Floyd Cn'me OfThe Century -Supertramp Safety In Numbers -Crack The Sky Heacl.ljunters -Herbie Hancock Runes [4]-Led Zeppelin 13 -Doors The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and The Spiders From Mars -David Bowie Look Sharp -Joe Jackson Apostrophe -Frank Zappa The Cars-The Cars and In Color­Cheap Trick 
TOM) ACKMANMusicviews Writer 
Deja Vu-CSNY . Exile on Main Street -Rolling Stones Dark Side ofthe Moon -Pink Floyd Everybody Knows This is Nowhere 
-Neil Young American Beauty -Grateful Dead Who's Next -The Who Eat a Peach-Allman Bros. Blood on the Tracks -Bob Dylan Born to Run -Bruce Sprinssteen Led Zepplin IV -Led Zepplm 
-·-·--·-·--=·­

[continued from previous page] 
man and the purpose ot art as an expression of permanence. 
But these albums address only the results of insanity and isolation, while The Wall attacks the personal­ized causes of lonlieness. It was feared by critics that the Floyd was slipping into technical cold artistry, ~rowing more logical and mechanist­IC with each album. The W'a/1, however, while being an artistically superb album, is also an angry, emotional story that brings Pink Floyd back to the people. 
The Wall is a rock-opera, remini­scent of the Who's Tommy, bur more serious in musical structure and depth. The main character is a composite of the entire band called, not surprisingly, Pink Floyd, who is 
raised by an overbearing mother and a sadistic schoolmaster. His wife is unfaithful to him. The pain of these experiences causes him to withdraw · from others, to build a metaphorical wall aroung himself. But as an artist and rrnsician, Pink 
· must maintain a relationship with reality and with his audience. As a result, he is tom between the pain of 
the outside world and the JOY of expression; he wants to withdraw and reach out at the same time. He attempts to escape through drugs and sex, but to no avail. He assaults his audience with his songs. Finally, 
he resons to violence and insanity. 
The conflict is resolved in a fantasy trial, which is both humorous and sad:idening, for it is capped by the realization that all" artists are caught "bmging on walls." Everyone has prc:tective barriers of some sort, and 
Top Ten Albums of the Decade 
***
MICHAEL A. KORBEL -Musicviews Wn'ter 
My Aim is True-Elvis Costello Exile on Main Street -Rolling Stones Live at Leeds -The Who Tnck ofthe Tail-Genesis The Cars-The Cars Tht'ck As A Bnck -] ethro Tull No Second Chance-Charlie The B-52's-The B-52's 
Kimono My House-Sparks Wake up the Echoes-The Notre Dame Marching Band 
MARK PERRY · Musicviews Wn'ter 
Dark Side ofthe Moon -Pink Floyd Exile on Main Street -Rolling Stones Running on Empty-]ackson Browne The Cars -The Cars Who's Next -The Who ~aturday Night Fever -Various Art­Ists Cn.me ofthe Century -Supertramp Piece de Resistance -Bruce Springsteen(bootleg) Tapestry -Carole King 
Goodbye Yellow Bn'ck Road -Elton John 
TIM SULLIVAN-Musicviews Wn'ter 
Dark Side ofthe Moon-Pink Floyd Who's Next -The Who Let It Be-The Beatles Tape~try-Carole King Phystcal Graffiti-Led Zepplin Heavy 1f/eaiher-Weather Report Harvest Neil Young Tnck ofthe Tat/-Genesis Brain Salad Surgery-ELP Goodbye Yellow Brick Road-Elton 
John 
MIKE TANNER -WSND Program Director 
Abbey Road -Beatles Harry Chapin's Greatest/Who's Next 
-The Who
-----b -n_­
... Pink Floyd 
it is art's purpose to try to break tha;e barriers and reach the heart of the individual. 
'The Wall is an angry album. It contains some of the most moving vocals and arrangements in rock music today. One cannot help feeling empathic towards the mam char­acter. In addition, the variety of musical styles placed here is amazing. Though snatches of songs sound like riffs from other Floyd albums, it is presented in unusual ways with greater emphasis on rythym. In fact, one cut, "Run Like Hell" is close to disco, but not quite. "The Trial" sounds like something ri~ht out ~f jesus Chnst Superstar, 
wtth flowmg orchestration and operatic vocals. ''Comfortably Numb," the best song on the album, is a combination of Ian Hunter and Moody Blues. 
But what makes this a superlative album is the lyrics of Roger Waters. This is from "Nobody Home": 
I've got a grandpiano ~o prop up my 
mortal remams. I've got wildstan'ng eyes. I've got a strong urge ~oy, 
But I've got nowhere to y to. 
And this is from "Goo bye Blue Sky'': 
Didyou see thefrightened ones? Didyou see thefalling bombs? Didyou ever wonder Why we hadto ru~or shelter When the promrse o a brave new 
wor/, Unfurled beneath the clear blue sky? Get The Wall. After all, it's about you and me. 
Tim Sullivan 

Pronounced-Lynyrd Skynrd Yes Album/Dark Side of the Moon­
Pink Floyd Brain Salad Surgery -ELP Fire on the Mountain-Charlie 
Daniel's Band Road Goes on Forever-Allman Bros. But Sen'ously Folks-Joe Walsh Born to Run -Springsteen Crime ofthe Century-Supertramp 
TOM KRUEGER -WSND Music Director 

The Rise and Fall ofZiggy Stardust and The Spiders from Mars -David Bowie Stranded-Roxy Music 
· Darkness on the Edge Of Town ­Bruce Springsteen Exile On Main Street -Rolling Stones Court and Spark -Joni Mitchell Aladdin Sane-David Bowie Greatest Hits -ABBA Wierd Scenes Inside The Gold Mine ­Doors After The Gold Rush -Neil Young 
'-·-----·-­

.,._.._..,._...._.. _ --e••• -· • ••-_u_,_ --­
Gifts for the Vinyl Junkie 
Once again it's that time of year when the fat man shimmies down your chimney and everyone gets benevolent and sta1'ts giving gifts to one another. Here's some helpful hints for gifts for that person on your list that reads Rolling Stone like the Bible. 
Bob Zimmerman, alias BOB DYLAN, has found Christ and te.lls you all about it on Slow Train Coming, one of his best albums in years. Other old timers releasing new discs include SANTANA's Marathon, THE WHO's soundtrack from Quadrophenia, a movie and a soundtrack that's well worth the wait, and renowned electric jazz violinist 
JEAN LUC PONlY's A Taste for Passim1. · 
JEFFERSON STARSHIP goes for a comback sane Grace Slick with their latest, Freedom at Point Zero. With the addition of Mickey Thomas you'd never know Grace was gone, nor care either as this band take a step forward after years of stagnation. Studio clones TOTO have released yet another album of their overdone pap onHydra. If you liked the first album, you might as well go for it. RANDY NEWMAN lays off of short people and hits gays, truck drivers, and just about everybody else on Born Again. King of the offender::,, FRANK ZAPPA, finishes the story of 
Joe onjoe's Garage, acts II. and II. For those who listen to Zappa for the guitar work, this one's a killer. 
All the NEIL YOUNG freaks will be drooling over Live Rust, recorded during his tour that passed through here last year. Rastafarians and other reggae fans unite; BOB MARLEY AND THE WHALERS bring forth Survival. The original man in the flannel shirt who has nothing between his guitar .and amp except a patch cord, "RORY GALLAGHER, outdoes himself a~ain the Top Pn'ority, which is as gCtx1 an example as ever of his charging, basic ~uitar style. And for those of you wtth no mus ·al taste whatso­ever, THE VILLAt.iE PEOPLE have wasted yet another ton of vinyl on Live and Sleazy, which is crass and worthless. 
New wave and pop fans have a veritable smorgasborg to choose from. Leading the list is the newest from THE BOOMTOWN RATC. The 
Neu York Dolls -New York Dolls tie Loaded-Velvet Underground 
MIKE EWING -WSND Music Director 
Davidjohansen-David Johansen The Rise and Fall OfZiggy Stardust and The Spt'ders From Mars -David Bowie Court and Spark -Joni Mitchell Rocket To Russia -Ramones New York Dolls -New York Dolls Squeezing Out Sparks . Graham Parker A Tonic For The Troops . Boomtown Rats 
Tie The Fine Art OfSurfacing -Boom­town Rats Rock 'n' Roll Animal -Lou Reed Darkness On The Edge Of Town ­Bruce Springsteen 
·The Cars -The Cars 
·­

Mick Mancuso 
Fine Art ofSurfacing, which features the ballad "I Don't Like Mondays" about the little girl in San Diego who decided to cancel school one day: forcibly. BLONDIE goes Parallel Lines one better with Eat To The Beat, but if you really want to hear the best female new wave vocalist, check out Stateless by LENE LOVICH. 
Southern rockers also suffer no drought when you consider the number of excellent new releases lately. One of the better releases of the year is BLACKFOOT's Stn'kes. Other honors go to 38 SPECIAL's Rockin' Into The Night, the tide song of which is enough to have you gulping Old Crow and calling for more. That little ol' band from Texas has done it up once more with Deguello. On Deguello, Z Z TOP 
· introduces the Lone Wolf Horns and adds a new flavor to their brand of Texas rock. Even better Texas rock comes from POINT BLANK on their super hot Airpla_y a'ibum. 
TOM PETTY AND THE 
·HEARTBREAKERS should fir: :tlly get the recognition they deserve with Damn The Torpedoes. Although old CHEAP TRICK fans may not enjoy it too much, anyone who was turne.d on to the band by the live album will probably enjoy Dream Police. Your little brother in high school with the jacked up Chevy sh0uld Jove either Different Kind of Crazy by HEAD EAST or Highway to Hell by AC-DC. For more sophisticated lovers of heavy duty rock there's apnl wine's Harder, Faster, which is just that compared to their last album. 
AEROSMITH displays some of the stuff that made them big on Night In The Ruts, which is interesting since lead guitarist Joe Perry left the band right after completion of the platter. 
If listening to music in an altered state is your thing, check out BILLY THORPE's Children of the Sun; an album that will "blow your mind" through headphones. Not to be outdone is PINK FLOYD, with their latest and their best The Wall (see review). For jazz freaks, either 8:30 by WEATHER REPORT or Water Sign by the JEFF LORBER FUSHION will make them love you for an excellent addition to· rheir collection of jazz-rock fusion. And then there's always...................... . 
/ 
.. ~ 

--------------------------------------------------------~--­
-------....-----~-------~-·----­
.... 

The Observer Thursday, December 6, 1979 -page 10 

Rockin You from the Tower, Tonite with 
Rock~-Retrospect, from 11-12 
Followed by the Album Hour, Only on Notre Dame's Student Rock, 


urs ay, Decem 
er 
Annual St. Nicholas' Day Party for the Children of the 
Notre Dame-St. Mary's Communit 
Beginning with the Lighting of the Cam pus Christmas tree, at 6:30P.M, in front of LaFortune. 
The party will be in LaFortune Ballroom, after the tree is lighted. 
Music, magic, gifts, goodies and SANTA CLAUS..will be featured 
All the children are invited to be Santa's guests. 
On Saint Nicholas Day, Thursday 
December 6, 1979 Children, please come with parents to celebrate the feast cloy of your own special Saint. 
Rev.RobertGriffin,CSC ThP UniversitY. Chaplain 
MASS 
followed by
supper 
every
FRIDAY 
at the 
Britain, Zin1babw-e agree on cease-fire 
in guerrilla war yesterday 
LONDON (AP)-Britain and the two sides in the Zimbabwe Rhodesian guerrilla war agreed yesterday on the principle of a cease-fire, apparently overcom­ing the last major hurdle to peace in the breakaway British colony. 
British Foreign Secretary Lord Carrington, announcing the ac­cord, said a final settlement should be possible within a few days. Detailed arrangements were to be worked out by military specialists. 
Spokesmen for Patriotic Front guerrilla leaders Joshua Nkomo and Robert Mugabe stressed, however, there ''are hazard~ 

ahead in the process of imple­mentation.'' 
Carrington told the House of Lords he was sending a gover­nor to Salisbury to take control of the government pending elections and internattonally recognized independence aimed at ending the 7 -year-old war, which had taken more than 20,000 lives. 
The Patriotic Front and the current Salisbury government previously had accepted con­stitutional plans, but the cease­fire ag-reement came after hard negouatiC?ns to thras_h out ~nd comprom1se on maJor pomts about security and function of a 
Commonwealth peacekeeping 
force  through  the  election  
pe~iod,  expected  by  next  
spnng.  

Britain had tried several times before to bring peace to its breakaway colony, and most believed this conference, now in its 13th week, was to be the last try. 
An agreement was tentatively announced in the afternoon and later reporters were briefed by Carrington, the conference chairman, after a 15-minute session with representatives of the Patriotic Front and dele­gates of Prime Minister Abel Muzorewa 

SMC sponsors Christmas bazaar 
Cece Baliles 
The annual Christmas Bazaar sponsored by Saint Mary's student government began Monday and will end tomorrow to give students the opportunity to do some early Christmas shopfing, according to Sr. Karo Jackowski, the Residence Life director. The event, which is held in LeMans Hall Lobby, consists of tables where clubs and organizations from the college and vendors from the South Bend community sell crafts and food, she explained. ''The bazaar consists of 3 5 tables, which is slightly larger than last year's. There are also more clubs represented this year such as the Nursing Club and the Sociology Club," said Mary Ellen Connelly, the chairman of the Social Activities Planning Board. She also commented that the people from the South Bend area were screened to ensure quality merchandise. ''This is done by 
Two groups perforlll 
. Fzreworks and Honeytree pr.e-,... s.ent a rare ble_nd of perso~ah­nes and mustcal styles m .a concert Saturday at 8 p.m. m Ste.pan Center . Ftreworks has JUSt completed 
a t~ree-month tour through the Umted States an.d Canada.. Th~mgh new to thts area, the1r 
umque style .has made the group popular m other parts of the country· keeping records of those who have had booths in previous years. The most popular among the students are invited to return,'' she said. 

"A $5 donation is requested from any club, or organization or business who wishes to use a table at the bazaar," according to Connelly. 
The bazaar originated approximately five years ago and only students could sell crafts or food they had made. 
However, it was such a success that it was soon expanded to include booths from local businesses and craftsmen, ) ackowski said. 
"Most of the crafts are hand­made and come from Mexico or other countries. The prices are very reasonable and range from 25 cents to $50 , " she explained. She also pointed out that many of the booths are run by college organizations selling baked goods and candy. 

Mardi Gras cotntnittee anticipates good year 



With its raffle ticket drive already underway, the Mardi Gras committee for 1980 is looking forward to another successful year. The theme for this year's event is "On The Town" and activities will run from Feb. 8 until Feb. 16. 
There will be a few changes this year in the raffle as well as in other areas. In addition to selling tickets before home games, changes have been made in the raffle prizes. This year, there will be two student prizes rather than one, the first 
pr.i~e being $1,000 and the second, $500. The grand prize will be a 1980 Monte Carlo from Gates Downtown Chevrolet. As in past years, any student selling a book of ten tickets will be given a week-long admission pass to Mardi Gras. Chair­persons are Pat Filingham, paul Kelly and Diane Loftus. 
Other changes include the creation of a Mardi Gras booklet by Joanie Glockner. A similar idea was attempted unsuccessfully last year. Dave Piech and Jeff Pietrowski will be in charge of working out an efficient system of tool distribution. In past years, Mardi Gras has been plagued by missing and damaged tools. 
As welf as instituting some changes, the Mardi Gras committee is placing emphasis on cutting down costs and increasing efficiency. Susie Glockner and Mike Domagola are in charge of accounts and a new J?OSition has been created: a lia1son coordinator to work with volunteer organizations such a~ CILA and Ombudsman during the nine-day• evem. 
The 1980 committee, under chairman Bob Morin, has been kept busy preparing for the student-run event. Working closely with Morin will be Mardi Gras coordinator Mike Hickey, business manager Mike Day, head architect Paul KapczaK as well as publicity coordinators Kim Convey and Bob Fiordaliso. The committee booth chairperson is P.]. Tuohy. Mardi Gras construction begins Jan. 26.






MDCI CONVENTION 
STATE CBAIBMEN 
applications now being accepted apply at N D Student Gov t Offices 
any ND or SMC stude11t ntay apply for State or Territorial Chainnan DEADLINE: Fri. Dec. 7 5 
• • • Safety 

[continuea from page 1] 
twenty minutes. 
The effectiveness of security during the emergency was also quesuoned by the students. An RA who was present at the time of the fire noted that, ''One of the securhy officers who was at the fire didn't even know how to work the fire extinguisher.'' She added that while both the Notre Dame and South Bend fire departments were notified of the fire, ''the Notre Dame department was there ex­tremely fast but the South Bend department took ages to ar­rive.'' 
When security was questioned about the response of the students to the fire alarm Mr. Anthony Kovatch replied, ''I don't know where the reporter got that information. Ten percent of thaf article was fact and the remaining ninety per­cent was conjecture. The administration and the students read that paper and take what the paper prints as gospel. What the students say is not fact. I'd rather not say any­thing to the Observer." Kovatch offered no futher com­
ment. 


The Observer Thursday, December 6, 1979-page ll 
Thai military divert supplies 
NON MARK MOON, Thailand (AP) -The Thai military, in what one officer described as "subtle" pressure, kept food and water shipments from reaching a huge enclave of displaced Cambodians for a fourth straight day Wednesday, 
and thousands began  to  move  
farther into Thailand.  
An  estimated  300,000  Cam­ 

bodians live in the Non Mark Moon encampment strad<lling the Thai-Cambodian border. 
The government last Sunday began barring relief supplies from the area in an effort to force some 200,000 of the Cambodians to move to the Khao I Dangcamp, seven miles from the Cambodian border and farther away from potential fighting zones. 
Leaders of the Free Khmer anti-communist guerrillas who 
control  Non  Mark  Moon  are  
resisting the move.  
The government  said  it  also  

acted because Free Khmer guerillas were diverting sup­plies for their own use. 
Border authorities said 4,000 refugees had moved since Sun­day, but camp leaders said 12 persons had died because no doctors were allowed in to treat them. 
Relief officials said they were trying to persuade the Thai government to lift the blockade. 
Prince Norodom Soriavong, leader of an estimated 250,000 of the camp residents, denied he was preventing the throngs from leaving this site, about 150 miles east of Bangkok. 
Soriavong, who claims to be a cousin of Cambodia's former head of state, Prince Norodom Sihanouk, said he has cabled the prince to lead his people, including 6,000 armed guerril­las, in their struggle against the Vietnamese troops who occupy Cambodia and the regime they have established. 
Guerrillas of ousted Com-· munist Premier Pol Pot also are fighting the new Phnom Penh government. 


Special Holy Day Mass 
~::l~ FEAST OF IMMACULATE CONCEPTION 5:00pm Friday, Dec. 7 Sacred Heart Church 
THERE WILL ALSO BE A SPECIAL HOLY DAY MASS AT SACRED HEART CHURCH ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8 AT 11:30. 
Check hall bulletin boards for times of Masses in dorms. 
Congress completing legislation 
WASHINGTON (AP) -With 
onlv tl·m·e weeks to go until 
year-end adjournment, the 
House and Senate are working 
against the clock to complete 
work on important energy legis­
lation and a bill to give federal 
loan guarantees to the Chrysler 
Corp. 
Despite the time crunch, the 
proceedings aren't exactly mov­
ing at a breakneck pace. 
In the Senate, the Carter 
administration has abandoned 
hope of getting a final vote this 
year on the SALT II arms treaty 
with the Soviet Union. 
And the drive to pass the president's energy program is sputtering, with officials con­ceding that important bills may not reach the White House un.ttl 1980. 
Another measure the congres­sional leadership wants to _{>ass this year would provide antt-re­cessionary aid to states and lc-::al governments. But pros­pects are uncertain, since the Senate has approved one bill and a widely different proposal is before the House Govern­ment Operations Committee this week. 
On the floor this week, the House is taking up a number of relatively minor proposals. The most controversial of them would declare Martin Luther K1Hjf's' birthday a nation~! holi­day. 
The Senate, meanwhile, re­sumes work on a ''windfall profits" tax, a key part of Caner's energy program. No final vote is expected until next week at the earliest. 
Even then, a House-Senate conference committee would have to reconcile the Senate bill with a stronger tax the House approved earlier. The tax would be applied on the reven­ues the oil mdustry will receive 
' ' Pursch
• 

[continued from page 1] 
given to the patient, dl!e .to the possibility of drug addiCtion. 
"Many alcoholics are given medication by their doctors, and though the patient over­comes his addiction to alcohol, the depend~ncy is repl~ced by drug addicnon. Alcoho!tsm an~ drug addiction are psychologt· cally the same problem, there­fore rrearments for alcoholism should not involve any drug because of the removal of federal price controls on oil. 
The administration and Demo­cratic leaders had been hoping to secure final passage of three energy bills this year. Thetax ,a synthetic fuels bill and a mea­sure to establish an Energy Mobilization Board. 
But Frank Moore, Caner's top Caprio! Hill lobbyist, said late last week he would settle two of the three before the House and Senate adjournment target of Dec. 21. He didn't specify which two he had in mind. 
Moore also said he expected the Senate would debate the SALT II treaty for a week or two at most at the end of the year, putting off a final vote until 1980. The administration had been hoping for a final vote before then. 
House Democratic Leader Jim Wright of Texas, meanwhile, said the profits tax and synthe­tic fuels bill are unlikely to win final approval until next year. He said the proposed .Energy Mobilization Board has a better chance for passage in 1979, but added, "I don't want to pro­mise anything.'' 
Both houses have approved bills setting up the Energy Mobilization Board, but a House-Senate conference com­mittee won't meet on a com­promise until the end of the week. 
Both houses have passed widely differing synthetic fuels bills, but a conference commit­tee meeting has been set. 

Refugees flood Pakistan 
PESHAWAR, Pakistan (AP) ­Refugees are crossing into Pak­istan from Afghanistan at the rare of more than 1,000 a day and by spring as many as a half -million are likely to have flooded into this country, a Pakistani official here says. 
The sudden influx of r'efdgees was triggered by a massive offensive launched by Afghan gov~rnm,~nt _tro~ps in, ,October agamst muJahtddeen -Mos­lem sccred warriors who have been fighting for the past 19 months agamst the Soviet­backed Afghan regime, now led by President Hafizullah Amin. 
Afghanistan, like Pakistan, is a predominantly Moslem coun­try and many Moslems oppose the Marxist taint of their new government. 
whatsoever,·' Pursch said. 
After five to six weeks, the patient is returned to his origi­nal work. "It is necessary for the alcoholic to learn to function 
in  a  normal  situation without  
dependence  on  alcohol,''  
Pur5ch said.  

Pursch has successfully treat­ed alcoholism for 12 years, and has been featured in ten films, including three widely sold films of his lectures, most notably ''The Life and Recovery of an Alcoholic." 
The official count of Afghan refugees who have taken haven in Pakistan is given as 262,000 but a reliable estimate put the figure closer to 300,000. 
Pakistan, itselffacing an eco­nomic crisis and Importing wheat, cooking oil and tea for its own people, is having diffi. culty providtng for them. 
The Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees has given funds for only 185,000 Afghans, and aid official said. The U.S. government is ex­pected to make a 12-million cash contribution. 


10% OFF all vitamins & health foods 
with ND-SMC 1D 
HEALTH FOODS----------~ 
...,_____NA 11UR4L VITAMINS 
SEARS HEALTH 
" ­

FlJODDEPT 
UNWERSITY PARK MALI.~ 
6501 GRAPE RD. AT U.S. 23 
SOUTH B]!;'ND 

200,000 
INVENTORY REDUCTION 

• , • •. t • I 1 _' • • • I I ~ ... I I • I ' I t ' • I I f
.. , .. ' 
.... ) ·. :. ~ .... ·. '.,. -. ' . 

f f • I 

t 
~ The Observer Thursday, December 6, 1979-page 12 
Going to the LEmANS FORmAL? 
Have dlnnet with us. Show yout tickets, and the fltst tound of dtlnks Is on the house 
Th• lc• Hous• 100 Center Complex mishawaka (1 drink per person free) 
------------~------~ 

Skiers ... turn driving time into skiing t1me. Ski Kalamazoo's all new Timber Ridge Ski Area and stay at the fabulous Kalamazoo H1lton Inn! 
PACKAGE PLANS 
START ~SlOW AS 
5 28°~er person
Michigan's 
INCLUDES TWO DAYS SKIING AND ONE NIGHTS LODGING
finest ski ares 
X

11:\~-.-E KALAMAZOO
~. ~. 
~~ _C 
HILlON 

.... -· INN 
Rt 2. Gobles. Mich 49055 

100 W. Mtchtgan Ave Phone Toll Free Kalamazoo. Mich. 49007 1·800-253-9852 Phone (6161 381-2130 
Please send me furl her tnformalton 
Name 

--------· ------------­
Address 
-

C•ly. State Z1p ··-·--_____ --·----_______ ------­I'm mterested tn: Only Skung · . Only Lodgmg L~ Allcul your Package Plans 
Have you any questions about the University's role towards minority students at Notre Dame? Getthem 
answered tonight Thurs., Dec. 6 by University administrators. Minority Forum Thurs., Dec. 6 7:30 Flanner Pit For details (6873) 
by Charlotte Bradley 
Sue Turcotte, Augusta Hall president, had a birthday Nov­ember 20th. Then she gave away over $25 of her birthday money in one lump sum. 
She donated that money to Students Concerned for Cambodia, an ad-hoc group 
formed to aid starving refugees in Cambodia. Sue said her aunts and grandmother were pleased when she told them what she had done with the money. 
_j 
Altogether, SMC students gave $622 to this fund before Thanksgiving. John Dug_gan, SMC President kicked off the brief 4-day campaign to raise money with a letter addressed to all students encouraging them to become members of Students Concerned for Cam­bodia. 
The campaign included: col­lections Jtaken ·•aaf...ineaR>• and masses, dorm prayer sessions, a donut sale sponsored by the Holy Cross Hall Council, ND­SMC Death March contribu­tions and a Clemson game bread sale concession. Whole­wheat baked bread, a symbol of communion, and a staple oflife, went for $1 a slice. 
When asked if she was satis­fied with the SMC contribution, Turcotte replied, "The mone­tary figure doesn't sound like much, but the administration, sisters and priests, and stu­dents all gave in different ways." She said that many people came up and gave her money at the bus stop when they saw her wearing the red armband symbolizing the "em­inence of need, tenuous hold on life and the rational anger needed to respond with com· mitment to the campaign for Cambodia.'' 
Mary D. Ryan, SMC Spiritual Commissioner stated when asked if she was satisfied, "It depends on how you look at it. It's not like we didn't reach a goal--we had no monetary goal. But everyone knew about it, and considering we have about 1700 students, the monetary response in one respect was sad. But the amount of people who got involved and wanted to pray was outstanding--they were very enthusiastic.'' 
Joan Holland, assistant to the president, said she was pleased with the sensitivity shown by students in the way they rallied forces for the cause. But she cautioned that a rush of effort is insufficient. ''The problem is 
$622 donated 

SMC collects for Cambodia 

FI~~.\SH Bl~LLETIN! 
Presenting Mr. Bob Mr. Bob brings his bold eastern talents to the Qu..ns Castle offering a "step ahead of the crowd atyting. Proven in competition, let Mr. Bob present a new you, the change will do you good. 
,., .,,........ 
277-1&11 •. 272-0312 

still there ... there should be constant support,'' she said. ''I hope that the effort will con­tinue." Ms. Holland termed the $622 figure "fantastic." 
The money collected at St. Mary's was pooled into the total Students Concerned for Cambo­dia fund. The ad-hoc group was cre~ted by John T. Murphy and Mike Stegman and is handled bv these two ND students in response to the Cambodian situation. All costs of the campaign will be absorbed by the Students Concerned. 
Ryan stressed that SMC Cam­pus Ministry support was very strong during the dampaign. the money collected by Stu· 
dents Concerned was donated 
to Catholic Relief Services.  It  
was  then  sent  to Thailand  to  
hospitals, orphanages, and  

camps set up by the Services. Six Holy Cross sisters, five of them nurses, have been work­ing since Nov. 15 in Thailand in conjuction with Catholic Relief Services. 
Ryan said that she was organ­izing efforts to continue the campaign at SMC, although no money ts being collected now. Possibly, monthly pledges will be taken from all students. She said there would be a review­and-critique meeting Saturday for Students Concerned for Cambodia. 

Ruether will discuss Women and the Church 
Rosemary Ruether, who holds the Georgia Harkness Chair at the Barrett Theological Semi­nary of Northwestern Univer­sity, will discuss "Current Per­spectives: Women and the Church" tonight at 7:30 in Haggar Hall auditorium. 
Ruether's lecture is the first in 
a series of events labelled a 
''teach-in on women and reli­gion·'. Members of the Notre Dame-South Bend community have organized the teach-in in the wake of recent papal and episcopal actions and pronounc­ements on women. 
Ruether, author of Women of Spin't and Now Women I New Earth, will also comment on her recent meeting with American bishops to study the role of women in the Church. 
Sister Madonna Kolbenschlag will discuss her book, Kiss Sleeping Beauty Goodbye, to­morrow night at 7:30 in the Haggar auditorium. The book examines the contemporary 
woman in light of misconcep­
tions about femininity and ap­propriate role models. 
The Ad Hoc Committee on Women and the Church plans an ecumenical workshop in late ] anuary on the role of women. Anyone interested in more in­formation should contact Anne Kearney at 283·7578. 
D.C. bus 
•
s-zgn-ups today 
The D.C. Club is running a bus home for Christmas break. Sign-ups will take place today and tomorrow from 7 to 9 p.m. in the LaFortune ballroom. ~ayment should be made at this 
time. 

CD/ offers vacation jobs 
Every qualified college stu­dent on vacation during the Christmas holiday season can fin~'lemporary employment -­and they will ~~ ':welc_omed with open arms, sa1d M1chael 
G. Lenhardt, Director of Branch Operations for CJ?l Tem~orary Services, Inc., Ph1ladelph1a, which has 27 offices in 13 metropolitan areas across the 
u.s. 

The continuing shortage of skilled personnel for temporary business services in offices and light industry means that jobs "are going begging," declared 
College Bowl games Saturday 
Lenhardt. This problem can be especially acute at peak sea­sons, such as Christmas time, he added. 
Scores of positions are avail­able, Lenhardt explained, and students can work as much or as little as they wish during the Christmas period or between semesters. Individuals can work one or two days a week or as muc"' as five days a week, as they choose, he said. 
Lenhardt pointed out that CDI Temporary Services also has "plenty of jobs" for qualified college students in the summer, at spring vacation and when­ever they have free time. He also noted that temporary work is available in every city where his organization has offices throughout the year, adding that "college students have universally been among our best and most reliable em­ployees." There is no fee of any kind when working for a temporary business service, 


All 16 College Bowl teams Lenhardt said. All/ay goes to should report to room 203 the employee, an there are 0'Shaughnessy by 9: 15 a.m. on less Social Security contribu­Saturday. Each team will play tions and other applicable two roands, the first running taxes. from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. and the CDI Temporary Services has second from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. offices in these metropolitanRounds three and four are areas: Philadelphia, Boston, scheduled for Sunday from 10 Washinuron, D.C., Atlanta, to 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 to 2:30 Miami, .Qetroit, Cleveland, In­
p.m. Team members should dianapolis, St. Louis, Kansas 
1 anticipate the possibility of a City, Dallas, Houston and Los wait before their games. Angeles. 

The Observer Thursday, December 6, 1979-pag~ \3 
Plans for convention progress 
Mary ellen Bradley 

Plans for the Mock Presiden­tial Convention, an event which should attract members of the national media, are progressing will, according to Bill Kresse, chairman of the organizational Committee. 
Traditionally held for the party out of office, the mock version, an exercise in early March, will be scaled down to half the size of the Republican National Con­vention. This consists of one representative from each of the 
Hyde celebrates birthday 100 
Evansville, Ind. (AP) Frank Hyde entertained himself at his birthday party this week by flirting with women and lying about his age. ''I'm 37," he said. The truth is he'll be 100 next week. Hyde pronounced himself in "perfect health"' except for arthritis, which only recently forced him into a wheelchair part-time. He does­n't know why he's so healthy. ''I never smoked,'' he said. "But I've chewed since I was 10." Hyde's party was held Wednesday, five days before his tOOth birthday, so officials from the Indiana Commission on Aging could attend. Hyde said that without the council, he probably would be forced to live m a nursing home. 
BD-IMC !RIA!BI presents "!he Heiress' ·Dec 6,'7 ­
d pm 
O'Loughlin Aud. St. Mary's 184-4176 

I I  Waiters/ •wru.tresses  
Shifts available  
3pm-llpm  
llpm -7am  
e enjoy top pay  
efree insurance  
epaid vacations  
e profit sharing  
•full or part ttme  
positions available  
apply in person at  
Denny's  
i 52626 us 31 N  
equal opportunity  
employer  

50 states, plus the territories: the District ofColumbia, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. 
The Convention committee ho~;>es to select native represen­tatives who will in turn choose the 977 campaign delegates from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Committees will begin composing the party platforms early next semester. 
The Convention will open Wednesday, March 5th, in Stepan Center. The following night should generate a good turn out, according to Kresse, when rarty issues such as nationa defense, relations with Third Worid nations, China amd the Soviet Union, inflation, taxation,environmental con­cerns, and the energy cns1s wm be debated, and platforms voted on by the convention. 
The delegates will vote for presidential candidates on Fri­day night. Selection of vice­presidential candidates Sat­urday the 8th, will be followed by a closing ceremony. Each mght, a guest key-note speaker will adress the Convention. 
'Iaste the pride of Canada. 

. .
........ ·. : -......... . 
.· 
Take our words for it, MOLSON Ale is:,. Hearty. Pure. Clear. Refreshing. Special. Pour it with pride.
Campus Rep 
Matt 'G. Dog' Desalvo 

Hr.utecl and botti~J in ('anacla; broul(ht to 11ou b!l ,'vfartlel Importing ('o., lt~c .. Grt•a/ Nee~ New Yor.l:
233-6090 


The Convention committee has selected many campaign chairman for official as well as some unofficial candidates, which include John Anderson, Howard Baker, George Bush, John Connally, Phillip Crane, Ben Fernandez, Ronald Rea­gan, Bill Simon, General Alex­ander Haig. Committee members continue 
to accept the applications of students interested in manag­ing the campaigns of Robert Dole, Harold.. Stassen, the un­declared candidate, Gerald ford, and any other proposed candidates. Kresse empha­
' 
sized that the success of the lOth Mock Convention since 1940 will depend on student enthusiasm and participation at all levels of campaign work. students will have the oppor­tunity to experience party "pol­iticking'' first-hand. 
Kr.esse mentioned that a Notre Dame alumnus, John Sears, mock campaign manager for John Kennedy in 1960, the present manages Ronald Rea­gan's campaign. 

~ 
r: 

~· The Observer-Sports Thursday, December 6, 1979-page 14 
[continued from page 16] an MVP award to .361 hitter Joe Torre. 
t. 
~ .: 
. ' 
f 
\ i 
'.t I 
ll 
(; 
L 
l r· 
r ~· r i. 
j! 
t 
( 
L 
r }', I. 
j; 
!] )! 
r 
L 
( 
f. 
jl 
,, 
i ~ 
j
~)
;~
r 
r 
l
;r 
~i 
; 
2 
' 
~ 
/,
)' 
r 
r ) 
I' 
r
r 
t.
r 
f r 
} 
r 
r 
r 
)' 
I 
I 
( 
J 
r 
{
I, 
)';
r 
~ 
1j 
)f 
l' 
.: 
) 
!l 
Const~ntly campaigni~g against a black crip­
on those pull-up jumpers, TJ's superlative 

pler, stckle-cell anemta, tragedy hit Wdlie
off-balance efforts, and the un-lamebrain-like 

hardest when doctors discovered his wife •
play of inspired Tim Andree. Meanwhile, the 

Dolores, had a brain tumor, and his stat~
team's catalyst is able to enjoy it all in street 

plummeted from 1975-1977 . 
clothes from the bench, anxiously awaiting the 

With Dolores finally cured, Stargell regained
December 29th showdown in Freedom Hall for 

his fearsome mien at the plate, and for the last
the revenge-minded Irish. 

• * * two seasons this ancient wonder has led the 
• • • Look 
majors in a telling category, runs batted in per
Only an act of Magic, or a Bjorn-again tennis 

times at bat. His seventh-game blast off Scott 
star, it would seem, could prevent Sports 

McGregor should be remembered more fondly
Illustrated from presenting its coveted Sports­

thaf? any of Jackson's '78 blasts by true
man award to Wilver Dornel Stargell. In 1971, 

afictonados, due to the urgency of the situation-­
after clubbing 48 homers to lead Pittsburgh to a 

and t~e nature of the man. Sportsman of the
pennant, he performed abjectly in the World 

Year ts one award the gracious Stargell needn't
Series, and hts accomplishments were over­
share with anyone.
looked in the glare ofClemente's last hurrah and 

Molarity by Michael Molinelli 

ni£Y WANT ME TO PAY MY 
I BTHATWIS£?TIE 
OWN BJLL,TIIE' PHONECALL 
1 PHONE COMPANY CAJJ BE FROM RWJCE AVDVARIOU~ 
PVJAL17E5 AT #'132.£)8 
AND IU£Y AL.50 CANCEU-£0 MY BILLING NUMBER. I'M 

NOT rnYING 




ACROSS 25 Racer 46 Country· 12 Remove, 1n 1 "-Gynt'' Andrettl wide: abbr. printing
The Daily Crossword 5 Fiascoes 28 48 Nursery
Taxis 13 Aged 10 Commotion 30 .. _ y plata" character 21 Looped rope 14 Ms. Adams 33 Another 54 Vinegary 22 Asner and 15 Without name 55 Reluctant Sull1van 
restraint 34 Satiate 56 Legal 25 Ike's wife 16 Skater's 35 Did in 1nstrument 26 Place in 
jump 36 Wishy-washy 58 Playwright rows 17 Excrescence type Moss 27 Stair part 18 Part of 39 Arrow 59 Tidal bore 28 Banana tam-
TNT poison 60 Like yolks ily plant 19 Pinochle 40 Lab burner 61 lohengrin's 29 Medieval ploy 41 Elevate bride poem 
20 Tough 42 Poetic -62 Dutch 30 Pertaining Pittsburgh contraction painter to oil player 43 Movie dog 63 Cooked 31 Della of 
23 Fish-eating 44 Sore spot song diver 45 Uninvited DOWN 32 Proprietor 24 Total picnicker 1 Church 34 English bench statesman 2 Cheese town 35 Engulfed
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

3 Irish 37 Makes over Republic 38 Verac1ty 4 Return 1n 43 Conjunction 
kind 45 Blood 5 Stringed carrier instrument 46 -Dame 6 Celestial 47 Ghostly 
hunter 48 Objective 7 Just a bit 49 Possess1ve 8 Tennis star 50 Perfectly 9 That can be 51 Carry on 
refriger-52 Therefore 
a ted 53 Omen 10 Made docile 54 That lady 11 Beasts of 57 Nautical
© 1979 by Chicago_Tribune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. All Rights Reserved 
burden chain 
r _____________, 


f WINTER'S HERE! l
RIVER CITY 

I STORE YOUR BIKE!! I 
I II
RECORDS 
IWHERE: Gate 14-Stadium
notthetn ln,dlana 'a latgeat tecotd and tape aelectlon 
IWHEN: Tues. Dec. 4, Wed. Dec. 51
and concert ticket headquattets 
I and Thurs. Dec 6. 
I

$1.00 off 
any album or tape lexotres Dec. 24 ,· 1979 

! 1-4 PM ONLY!!! I
·(limit 1 coupon per person 
18,000 CllbUiftl and tapea In stock 
INote: Bikes must be registered !!I 
ND;smc student checks Clccep~ fot up to 
1 Register at: Lost & Found, I
J20.00 over putchClae amount Open 10 to 10, 7 dClyt Cl wMk 
I Rm 121 Adm. Bldg. I Between 8:30 a.m. & noon I 
Rivet City Recotda 
· and 1:30 p.m. & 6:00p.m~
50970 U.S. 31 North 
t ______________,
Serial nos., necessary I
3 mlle1 nolth of campua 
277-4242 

-----......................).11__............................ 
-----~----------­
• . Owners 
[continued from page 16] 
promising rookie catcher Keith Moreland and a choice of one other quality player on a list of eight for Winfield and two of three Padres' Pitchers: Gaylord Perry, Bob Shirley and Bob Owchinko. 
The Padres, according to Phillies personnel director Paul Owens, abruptly shut off con­versations before Owens could even c.ompletc his presentation. 
''I was shocked,'' said Phillies Manager Dallas Green. 
Among the rumors at the convention were the Phillies offering relievers Ron Reed and Tug McGraw for Milwaukee pitcher Bill Travers; the Phillies still trying to get Perry, Owchinko and-or Shirley from San Diego for a lesser package. 
Other rumors were Toronto trying to work out a deal that would include the Blue Jays' John Mayberry for Montreal's Ellis Valentine; the Red Sox trying to peddle Butch Hobson to the Mets for Swan and catcher John Stearns, and Toronto sending first baseman Chris Chambliss to Atlanta for outfielder Barry Bonnell, pitch­er Torrimy Boggs and catcher Bruce Benedict. 
• • . Irish 
[continued from page 16] 
cats into Notre Dame's transi­tton game. 
''Northwestern was a good team," commented Tripucka. ''I thought we played good defense tonight, and with the return of Bill Hanzlik we will be even better.'' 
Jackson, who led the Irish with seven rebounds and chipped in 15 points, echoed his frontline partner's sentiments. "Ag­gressive defense was our key. We were giving up some height but that's forcing us to take advantage of our quickness." 
Wildcat forward Jim Stack tied Tripucka for scoring honors with 19, while substitute for­ward B.Jb Grady grabbed re­bounding honors wtth eight. 
• MVP 
[continued from page 16] 
starting free safety this year, after starting at cornerback last season. 
Crable, the first underclass­man to captain the Irish since Willie Fry tn 1976, was selected on the third team Associated Press All-American team, and set a record for most tackles by a Notre Dame player in a season, including 26 against both South Carolina and Clem­son. He also blocked three kicks, including Michigan's po­tential game-winning field goal in the 12-10 Irish win. 
Co-captain elect Scully was also presented with the 1979 John W. McMullen Award, presented to the player who best exemplifies the spirit of the scholar-athlete on the field and in the classroom. 
Reserve placekicker J~e Unis, best remembered for hts game­winning extra point against Houston in the 1979 Cotton Bowl win, was presented with the St. Joe Valley Club award as the top scholar on the Notre Dame team. 

tr 


The Observer Thursday, December 6, 1979-page 15 
Classifieds 
I need a ride to the Who concert in

Student house for rent, second semester. 
Chicago 12/8. If you have room, please

Notices 
Walking distance to campus. Nice. Call 
give me a call at 8382. Ask for Mike.

272-1729 after 5:00. MINNESOTA: I need a ride to Saint Paul
Room for rent-near rides. $45.00 per
Used Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. or vicinity. Bright, entertaining female
month. 233-1329.
9-7. Ralph Casperson, 1303 Buchanan known to cuddle to keep warm. Can leave Rd. Niles. 683-2888. on the 14th or later. Call Kathy at 6369
We rent dependable cars from $7.95 a 
soon, please.

day and 7 cents a mile. Ugly Duckling
For anyone interested in wor1dng on the 
Rent-A-Car. 921 E. Jefferson Blvd.
Reagan campaign for flle mock Need ride to MILWAUKEE 12-20 or
Mishawaka, Ind. 255-2323.
Republican convention, please call Brian after. Rick 233-6068. at 3185 or 3166, Greg at 272·7773 or Mary at 7895. Huge 5 room apartment 200.00 monthly Housemate Available Junior M.E. wants 
includes heat and water. Call 232-7344. to move into house of students for 2nd Alterations for men and women's clo­semester. Please call Rob 234-7058. thing. Call 255-6275. One female roommate needed for Leave name and phone.
Campus View Apt. Call Tina at 2n-5261. Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 277-0296. Need ride to Pittsburgh Exit PA. turn­pike. Leave Wednesday evening or early 
Will do typing -Reasonable -Neat ­Accurate. Call 287-5162. 
Wanted 
Professional typist. IBM Selectric II. Mrs. Burnore. Near campus. 272-3134. 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Quick 1 day service: Will pick up and deliver. Call Jan 282·1805 or 684·1414. 
I desperately need ride to lndiilnapolis
Morrissey loan Fund weekend of Dec. 7-9. Leave Friday or Last day to apply for loans before X-mas Saturday. Will pay handsomely. Call break is Dec. 12. $20-$200. One percent Joh, 8653. interest. M-F. 11:30-12:30. 
Ride needed to Tampa, Fla. Sign up for Bus to Washington, D.C. · --Can leave on Dec. 19th, 20th, or 21st. Wed. and Thurs. 7-9 p.m. 2nd Floor --Willing to share driving and expenses.Lafortune. --Please call Tony at 3459. 
Bus to Trumbull and Mahoning Counties Need ride to Minnesota for X-mas. Will on Dec. 21. Interested? Call Karl at 6726 share expenses. Call Tom 1247. or Mark at 1870 by Friday night. 
WSND is looking for a sales manager.All WSND "Bids you au-bowl" prize This is a paid position Call #7425 winners must pick up their prizes by between 2-4 pm for details. Monday, December 10, 1979. 
Ride (riders) South -Illinois 55 (ISU) Dec. Interested in learning more about the life 6, 7. Barry 2106. of a Brother, Sister or Priest in the 
Church today? Come to adiscussion and Need ride to Miami, Fla. or vicinity for film in the Farley Hall lounge, Thursday, Christmas break. Will share driving and December 6, 1979, at 9:30pm or talk to expenses. Call Bob at 168~ the Indiana Campus Ministry Renewal Team in the library foyer on Wednesday Need ride to Chicago for Xmas break. evening or during the day on Thursday. Will share expenses. Can leave aHer~ 
noon of 19th at earliest. Mary Frn 7904. Want your plants cared for during vacation? Call 2n-3074. Help! Desperately need ride to 
Milwaukee for break. Can leave after ST. LOUIS POST-GAME PARTY Sat. 9:30P.M. Wed., Dec. 19. Will share all Dec. 8 aHer the game. All St. louisans expenses. Mark 8653. and guests welcome. ROTC lounge.
-============--Need ride to Florida for Christmas break.
• Will share expenses. Steve K. 1062. 
Lost & FoundUCLA st~dent ticket wanted. Call Joe 
_____________ 1205 anyttme. 
Found--contact lens in case. Call 6635. 
Found: Before break in LaFortune. Small Silver pen with the initlal "B" attached by a small chain. Lost and found-Adm. Building. 
Lost: small gold star witha diamond in the middle. It is a necklace charm. If found, please call 7966. 
Lost at the Clemson football game, Section 30. A thick knit, creme colored. right handed mitten. If found, please call Becky, 41-5n9. 
Lost: one pair of orange, white and blue ski gloves. 277-3782. 
Lost-green backpack filled with semes­ter's books and notes, and Important term paper. I am lost without it. Reward! Call Steve 8298 or 8200 if no answer. Last seen in Badin laundry. 
Lost: One Navy B!ue, down parka. If you have any ideas of its whereabouts. please call 8502. 
Lost clothes on hangers behind Zahm hall. Call Rick at 288-2023. 
Lost: C-3 parking lot, Tuesday before Thanksgiving break. Stocking hat, hand knitted, brown, loose-fitting. Reward offered. Call 289-5964. 
Lost: N.D. class ring. White gold with blue stone. Initials G.J.A. Call 1149 Greg. 
Found: 1 pair of wire-rimmed glasses between O'Shag and Galvin. Pick up in Ad. Building Lost and found. 
For Rent 
Need two female roommates to share house. Close to campus 232-2578 after 
10:00 P.M. 
Multiple vacancies. Apt. 2-A. 835 N. Notre Dame Ave. 232-0099. $82.50 per person and utilities. 
Need ride to Mercede, California, for Christmas. Will share expenses. Call 
7934. 

Rides needed to Friday's Dead Concert in Indianapolis. Share expenses and 1 free ticket. Call Rick 1048. 
DESPERATE for ride to Ann Arbor Dec. 
8. Will share $. Call Donna 13564. 
' ', ~"' 

Need a ride to Rochester, N.Y. for Christmas break. Call Barbara-234-7220 
I have room, riders to KANSAS CITY, Christmas. Dave 3637. 
Need member of N.D.-S.M.C. Commun­ity to drive new car to Seattle, Washing­ton, and return in 1979 car after Christmas Break. Call 232-0453. 
Need ride to Philadelphia, New Jersey area for Christmas break. Will help with gas$. Dan 1502. 
Need ride to D.C. area or Norfolk area for break. Richmond would be perfect. Share usual. Call Steve at 3047... 
Part-time bartender wanted. Minimum wage to start. Hours flexible. 289-4709. Jim. 
WSND is looking for an Assistant General 
Manager for Public Relations. This is a paid position. Call #7425 between 2-4 pm for details. 
Need ride to OMAHA for break. Please call Jim at 308:>. 
WANTED: MALE OR FEMALE HOUSE· MATE. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. $40 PER MONTH. CALL MARCIA. 288-2095. 
WANTED: MALE OR FEMALE HOUSE­MATE. CLOSE TO CAMPUS" $40 PER MONTH. CALL MARCIA. 288-2095. 
Need Ride: To Bloomington, IN or Rocilester, NY after Dec. 18. To NO from Bloomington. IN. Jan. 14. Call Jim 1539. 
Thursday (Dec. 20) Share expenses. Call Joe 1770. 
Need two Harry Chapin tix--floor or lower arena--Call 3324. 
For Sale 
Second hand beginners drafting table. Call 232-4462 after 5:30. 
For sale--American Airlines 50 percent coupon good through December 15. Best offer. Ph. 255-2223. 
For Sale: --13 watt/channel Technics receiver-­
$80! 
Call Scoop at 1771. 
'72 Nova VB, P.S., P.B., A/C, New tires. Engine in excellent condition. $1050 or B.O. Mike #3770. 
Like new--4 shelf bookcase--dark wood tone (press board) $15.00. Call 7062 Theresa. 
For sale: 1 student season basketball ticket, padded seat. Call Greg, 3662. 
Sony TC-558 Reel to Reel. Auto reverse tape deck. Three motors, six heads, and many other features. Two sure 589-S mics included. Must sell. Call Gena at 1743 or 238-7387. 
For Sale--68 Impala V-8, PS, PB, Air, Very clean. $550.00. Ph. 233-2395 after 5:00. 
3 WHO tickets for sale. Call1824. 
FOR SALE: HUMIDIFIERS, compact cool vapor humidifiers by Gerber. 6-month guarantee $13.00. Call John 3588. 
For Sale--Two WHO tickets ·-Dec. 8 ·­$50-Fran 8168. 
United half-fare coupon $40 cash or best offer. Call 4462. 
SKISforsale. K2255SoH185cm. Used f 1 year 8670. 
Drive Home for Christmas. 1975 Chevy Vega Wagon, Radio, Heater, air, New Tires, Excellent Condition, 25 MPG. $950.00. Call 233-5278. 
For Sale: UTAH M-5500 Speakers--12" Woofer-tweater and Midrange --$80 for pair. Call Shawn (1468). 
HOLIDAY SALE! $25 worth of free books to first place winner plus 2nd and 3rd prizes. Also many gift items: books, book sets, calendars and games. Special sales throughout the season. Visit PANDORA'S BOOKS, 937 South Bend Ave., near Eddy. 
For Sale: Genesis Loud Speakers; excellent condition. life time guaranty. Oave 1143. 
MUST SELL SEASON BASKETBALL TICKET. Graduate in December. Front row. Call John 232-0264. 
For sale: used green reclining chair, $15. Phone 272-7347. 
For sale: Student b-ball ticket. Call Jim 141211 P.M. -12 P.M. 
For sale: Two tickets for Harry Chapin. Call Ed at 289-9697. 
Selling round trip airline ticket to Newark, N.J. Call Dennis/8921. 
Tickets 
Bleacher season basketball package for sale. Best offer 6789. 
Personals 

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , ~wo d~rs prior to the issue in which the ad is run. Thl Obslmr office Wll accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. ~~ classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the matl. 
All Observer employees: Paychecks will be available In The Observer office on Dec. 11, 4:15-5:00 
p.m. and Dec. 12, 2:15-4:30 pm. 
J. Radd 
Attention Observer Staff: There are many "old" Observer checks which haven't been picked up. All these checks will be voided by Friday at 4:30 pm. NO EXCEPTIONS! All you have to do Is ask Cell. 
The Management 
CAGE THE TEST ANXIETY MONSTER! 
Scared about taking finals? Do you freeze before taking your tests? On Saturday, December 8th, from 1:00-4:00 in the SMC Clubhouse, Mary Theis from the Counseling and Career Development Center will help you learn to relax and take those tests more easily! Brings blankets and pillows for comfort and sign up in the CCDC by Thursday, Dec. 6. Come on Saturday, and let's Cage that Test Anxiety Monster' 
On Thursday, Dec. 6, the Plastic Hymie Band opens its long-awaited 1979 tour featuring the high energy sounds which made it famous. it promises to be a happening. Be there at 9:00. 
Pat, Happy 19th, it isn't that od. Bill and Kent 
ATTENTION SENIOR CHEG'S 

T.A.·ING YOUR CLASSES WAS TRULY A PLEASURE. GOOD LUCK ON YOUR FINALS. I'M CONFIDENT YOU'Ll DO WELL 
HAPPY HOLIDAYS, BILBO 
To all Nazz staff and performers: Dinner in the basement of Lewis, [5:30} Satur· day, Dec. 8th. Call Mary (7809] before Thursday so she knows who Is coming. BYO refreshments. 
Section 106 IS Notre Dame. Who is everybody else? 
CAGE THAT TEST ANXIETY MONSTER! 
Anyone Interested in working on John Anderson's presidential campaign for the Mock Convention, call Larry-1049. 
Happy Anniversary! What does Gluck Gluck mean again? 
Anyone Interested In taking a chartered bus to the Warren, Youngstown, OH. area for Xmas break, call Mark 1870 or Carl 6726 by Dec. 10. 
TEST ANXIETY  MONSTER  ESCAPES  
AND  RUNS  WILD  ON  SMCIND  
CAMPUSES!  '' .o•  

"Kathleen, Greetings from Meriden, Conn. to Regina North. Happy 18th! 
Love, T.R." 
Lisa M. Hang in there, babe, and remember I really care! Love ya. 
Your fellow camel rider 
Sparkling Cheeks, Even though you use strawberry lipstick, wear earrings, and make rotten toasts, I still had a great time Saturday. Thanks. 
Love, Wicked at 53 
FM 315 wishes to thank the women of Walsh for their enthusiastic response and their scintillating conversations on the WEOC request line. Hockin' you from the turret, FM 315 bids you Veni, Vedi, Veci. 
Cindy-­We're gonna miss you tons next semes­ter. You'll be with us in spirit! 
--The Other Five 
Come to PFISTER JOE'S HAPPY HOUR Special Christmas edition. Have a Pfabulous time with Joe, Bob, Madeline, and Bart. 
Need money for Christmas? Undergrad­uates wanted for two short-term research projects. Both tasks deal with assessing student opinions. Involves 2 112 hours work and can be completed in just one day .t.Jso, can be arranged to fit your schedule. Pay totals $10.60. Contact Bob at ext. 3886 or 277-3903 for scheduling. 
Ignore the fact that Dec. 14 is Study Day; it's also Kathy Murray's 20th birthday and if she doesn't have a big celebration, we'll hear about it for the rest of the year. 
Kathy-­Happy 20th birthday! Meet us up in Niles for the 2nd annual "Blow-off-your­finals" pizza party. Who needs a 4.0? 
Love, Mons, Hoef, and Bim 

Katie-­Happy 20th Birthday' Celebrations were planned, but we found out there's a hockey game that night·-hope you're not "dissipated." After the game, we'll hea-ed back to Walsh--try to fight the urge to lounge next fall (trashed is the word') 
Love. 
Mons, Bimmer, Hoef. and KM 

P.S. Watch the maid's closet--the band is popping out at noon! 
David, Je juste veux te remercier pour tout ce que tu as fait pour moi. Je reel ment l'apprecie. Tu es un Ires cher ami. Merci beaucoup. 
Lisa 

Lafortune lunchtime Concert with Rich Prezioso-Friday, 11:45-1. 
ST. LOUIS CLUB POST-GAME PARTY Sat. Dec. 8 aHer the game. All St. Louisans and guests welcome ROTC Lounge. 
Rosemary, Happy Birthday eau de! We all wish you were here. Love, Maura, Rachael, Cindy, Wolfie, Hip, Patty, Clare, Steve W.. hogs, Mel, Murph, Kevin, Tom S., Annie H.• Anniet. Pat, Doug, Tara K, Dolores, Charlie, Mike R., Tara C., Ozzie, Timmy G, Noche, Margie, Joe, Goose. Bro. D., K.V.C.. Carl, Peter, Dave. Slowey, Mugs, Pill 
P.S. CHA! 
Pete "Knute". I'm glad you didn't catch cold on your 5 
a.m. hike. Thanks--call me when you take a study break sometime please. Billiards? 
Annie (4352) 

Saki, Happy Birthday! Hope your 19th is a riot!!! 
Love, Your Roomie and an Alpha friend 

Dear Cute and Darling Mystery Person, Thanks for the happy birthday personal. But it didn't help--no one called. 
Susan 

To: My, My, My: I'm looking forward to a special "New Year's Eve." 
Love, Your. Your, Your 

Sarah, Keep Smilin'. It makes people wonder what you're up to Happy 20th Birthday! 
Your Roomie! 

The Iowa State Coach stated. "I'm not trying to tarnish Notre Dame's reputa­toin, but the crowd wasn't a factor ..... Doesn't this mean anything to anyb'ldy? 
Rogals, We thoroughly enjoyed your striptease act in D.C., but you didn't take enough off--or were you JUSt p1 acticing for your birthday when you'll ta~e it all off? Hope you have a great December 10th, whoever you're with. Happy 21st. 
Jill and Sherry 

Detroit bus: leaves main circle Dec. 20th at 12:45 p.m. Sign-ups still available. Call Mary 288-5465. 
Goose, Mona, Snake Lady, and Diane: Thanks for the grace last night. I needed it. 
The wretch 

Cathy M. To the "Dancing Paraital Girl" at H.C. last Friday: If you remember Bert, drop him a line at 6756. 
• .. • • .. t •• 
·····-··~·····-················ 
l l 
1 
~ 
4 
1 
j 
j 
I 
~ 
l 
1 
l ' 
l 
l 
1 
J 
l 


Thursday, December 6, 1979 -page 16
-~orts 



Defeat NU, 73-56 

Late first half surge boosts Irish 
by Btl/ Marquard testy 2-3,3-2 zone in the first Sports Writer half with an array of perimeter shooting. Andree's turn-
EVANSTON, Ill. --Despite around jumper from the left trouble in the early gomg, baseline at 7:05 was the first Notre Dame's Fightmg Irish Irish field goal from less than 15 opened up and coasted to a feet, with the exception of a 73-56 decision over the host Rich Branning fast break lay­Northwestern Wildcats at up. McGaw Hall last night. But the Irish were effective 
"We did what we had to do from the outside, connecting on tonight," remarked Irish coach 50 percent of their first half Digger Phelps. "We kept our shots. Tracy Jackson paced the confidence and poise in the first midway scoring with 11, while half when Northwestern was Branning added 7. close, and it paid off when we The fourth-ranked visitors opened up our lead where we scored eight su·ai~ht points wanted it at the end of the with less than tw1> mmutes to go half.'' to take a more confortable 35-25 
After jumping out to an early le?d at the half. 10-2 lead, foul trouble and the ''That surge really helped tight Northwestern zone kept us," remarked Phelps. "We the Irish from breaking away in started playing better defense the first half. Forward-turned-and we starred hitting some center Orlando Woolridge drew shots. That lead gave us the three fouls in the first nine boost we needed going into the minutes while covering 7 -foot second half.'' Brian Jung, and Woolridge's That last t'Yo minutes seemed replacement, Tim Andree, went to be the turning point for 
well," noted Phelps. 

we got in trouble we put Tim in especially for his physical size. Orlando Woolridge battles for the ball during Notre Dame's He neutralized what they were win over Northwestern, 73-56, in Evanston last night. fphoto doing inside.'' by Doug Chnstian] Offensively, Notre Dame tried 
to pull Northwestern out of its 

Baseball owners trade rumors 
TORONTO (AP) -A couple of that owner Charles Finley was failed. minor transactions, the signing close to selling his Oakland A's The Phillies, it was learned of free agent shortstop Fred to Denver oil magnate Marvin offered pitcher Larry Patek and a feeling of rancor Davis. The source said that Christenson, outfielders Greg between some baseball execu­only a couple of details have yet Luzinski and Bake McBride, tives featured the tortise­to be worked out. 
[continued on page 14)

moving annual winter baseball The California Angels were meetings here Wednesday. miffed at the New YorkMets for The California an­
the first half. Two or three things happened resulting i!l quick Irish baskets. Up unul then we were breathing down their necks.'' 
The Irish opened up in the second half, penetrating the inside and driving the lane more often. Forward Kelly Tripucka scored 13 of his game­high 19 points in the second frame on a combination of lay-ups and outside jumpers. 
In a do-or-die effort to come back, Falk pulled his charges out into a man defense with 
7:46 left when the Irish had taken a 14-point lead. The Irish opened up that bulge to irs widest at 71-50 on a Tripucka lay-up with 1:33 left. 
And just as the Irisl1 offense opened up, the defense closed down on the Wildcats. Many of Northwestern's second half baskets came when the aggres­sive Irish defenders overplayed their men, while sticky full court pr'essure forced the Wild-into the lockerroom at the half Northwestern coach Rich Falk 

[continued on page 14]

with two personals of his own. also. "We really lost it late in ''We did mix up our personnel 
s B • f 
"When 
r1e s

ports 
'---------.., 

High school center intends to come to ND 
Joe Kleine, a 6-foot-11, 240-pound center from Slater, ,Mo., has announced his intention to attend Notre Dame, Irish athletic officials announced yesterday. Kleine is averaging 31 points and 25 rebounds per game this year at Slater High School. 
Men's volleyball team to face SMC 
In one of this year's most unique matchups, the O'Hanlon's Notre Dame men's volleyb2.ll team will be facing the Saint Ma~y's team tonight at 8 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facllity. 
Angels reneging on a dea'l after agree­nounced the signing of Patek, ing with a handshake to send at 5-foot-3 one of major league pitcher Craig Swan to the 
A brieflook at sports-1979
baseball's smallest players. American League team for The Angels also disclosed they three An~els, -including out­had sent shortstop Jim fielder Wtllie Mays Aiken, a Mike Henry Anderson, 22, to the Seattle .281 hitter with 21 homers and 
Notre Dame students are a caring, discerning, intensity over the course of such grueling slates, Mariners to complete a deal 81 RBI in 1979. 
and ever-increasingly introspective lor:, and the and that fine gentleman will reture two yearsmade last season in which Mets owner Mrs. Vincent de swirling current of unfavorable world opinion hence, after surpassing Amos Alonzo Stagg'sCalifornia received pitcher John Roulet, however, nixed the against their homeland, coupled with mounting record for total victories.
Montague. deal. She said the Mets were in academic pressures (the addition of a year's In fact, a huge burden rests on the students'In another deal. the Detroit the process of being sdd and study required to earn an accounting degree is shoulders for any 5uccesses future Irish gridiron Tigers acquired shortstop Juan that moving Swan would not be ample proof that duLac wished to establish itself stars will achieve, Individuals who wouldLopez from the Milwaukee fair to the new owners. ­as one of the nation's most challenging higher publically call for the ouster of the head man, atBrewers for pitcher Fred In another case of hard feel­education institutions) has caused the fantasy the very time their fellow students are gallantlyHoldsworth. · · ings, the Phillies brass was world of sports to be relegated, for the time trying for still another dramatic comebackIn another development, a upset when its effort to pry being, to a secondary position in the minds of victory, cannot truly clr..im to be among thesource close to the negotioa­loose outfielder Dave Winfield the community's residents. brethren. You three (or however many weretions told the Associated Press from the San Diego Padres Yet one cannot lose sight of the fact that, to an responsible) are insecure, self-serving cynics
outside world peering in through a rose-colored who simply wished to capitalize on the despair of kaleidoscope, Notre Dame is primarily a the moment.. breeding ground for the glamorous professional Yet this is not to deny anyone the right, should
Captains, MVP ~ounced 
athletes of the future, its classrooms being the the program show continued deterioration, to lush green turf of the Stadium and the hardwood clamor for a motivator of young men, and soon floor of the ACC's arena. How' many, on enough it will be time for Dan Devine to occupy
at 1979 football banquet 
arriving home for the holidays, will not be ribbed Moose's vacated chair, and for Ted and Ned to about a 7-4 campaign, that by all measures must wind their way through South Florida's palm 
The 1979 Notre Dame football rushing catagory. be classified as disastrous? fronds in search of a true savior.. team was honored last night by Ferguson and his fellow co­Or, as an aspiring journalist, perplexed at the • • • the Notre Dame Club of St. captains, Tim Foley and Dave difficult tradition the Fighting Irish wish to Once again Digger Phelps finds himself loaded Joseph at their 60th annual Waymer, were also honored for uphold, semi-jokingly asked the South Bend 
with more talent than that possessed by some football banquet. Jim Lynch, their service to the team this Tribune's Assistant Sports Editor, Bill Moor, a entire conferences, and still he insists on former Notre Dame and Kansas season. 1972 graduate of Indiana University, "How uttering the same trite promise: ''Our goal, as 
City Chief star, served as Announced as captains for the come you guys can go 7-4 and be rewarded with alwavs, is to get into the NCAA tournament". toastmaster, and several 1980 season were John Scully a trip to San Diego to play undefeated Brigham Yet' barring an unforseen calamity, Notre and Tom Gibbons, who will be Young, while Notre Dame's 7-4 season is viewed
awards were presented to mem­Dame's road to the Fabulous 48 is nowhere near bers of the team. seniors, and junior-to-be Bob as a total failure?'' as treacherous as an icy 'mid-February trek from 
Vagas Ferguson, who set 13 Crable. The outlook for subsequent autumns can hardly Pangborn Hall to Gate 10 of the ACC. Notre Dame records in his four Scully, who served as center be considered sugary, and one need look no 
Ultimately, the cagers' chances of capturing the year career, was named as most for the Irish this year, gained an further than the inside cover of the football elusive brass ring may depend on Digger ability valuable player for the Irish this extra year ofeligibility because guide to discern the reason. Stung by 
to find a stable ieven or eight-man ltne-up that season. The senior tailback, he sat out his freshman season nationwide criticism of Notre Dame's 'patsy' can rip the Dukes and Indianas apart in March. who also served as co-captain with an ankle injury. schedules during the glorious 'Era of Ara', Promising, indeed, has been the wi!Jingness of 
for Notre Dame rushed for Gibbons, a three-time mono­Athletic Director Moose Krause has brutally 
the effervescentJohn Paxson to go to the basket, 1,437 yards this season, scored gram winner, was the Irish overscheduled the Irish through 19xx. There's the sudden return of Rich Branning's deft touch 
17 touchdowns, and rewrote the probably only one collegiate coach in the nation
[continued 01. page 14]

record book in nearlv every who could maintain even a super team's [continued on page 14] 




