, , , Musicviews -page 7 
VOL. XIV, NO. 33 1HURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1979 
Stock, bond markets react 
~ 


to Federal Reserve's plans 
NEW YORK (AP) -Frenzied activity rocked the stock and bond markets of Wall Street for the second straight day yester­day in a convulsive reaction to the Federal Reserve's new plans for clamping down on credit. 
Trading volume at the New York Exchange reached a re­cord 81.62 million shares, far outdistancing the previous high of 66.37 million set Aug. 3, 1978. 
The Dow Jones average of 30 industrial stocks, off about 25 points at mid-afternoon staged a late rally to finish with an 8.37 decline at 849.82. That left the widely recognized average with a loss of more than 48 points since Monday. 
Bond prices likewise came under intense pressure as the markets absorbed the shock of new record levels of interest 

He may not have the skzll ofTony Hunter, but his effort cannot be matched [photo by Tim rates. Tuesday, many of the MeKeogh] 
nation's banks announced un-

Pope reaffirms traditional women's roles 
VATICAN CITY (AP)-Pope John Paul II yesterday urged Roman Catholic nuns to be loyal to his leadership in the church and never betome ''irritated or embittered.'' 
The pope'swords were inter­preted here as an indirect ref­erence to the dramatic request an American nun, Theresa Kane, made to John Paul in Washington, asking him to allow women to become priests. 
Three days ago, addressing the pope in the Sanctuary of the Immaculate Conception, Sister Kane called for equal ''rev­erence and dignity for all persons" and appealed to John Paul to admit women to "all ministries in our church." 
During yesterday's public audience in St. Peter's Square the pope hailed a group of 600 

Groups aid boat people in adjusting to society 
by Mary Beth Moran 
Editor's Note: This is the first in a three part series on the 
problemsfacin~; the lost men andwomen ofSoutheast Asia--the :'Boat Pf!ople. ''. Today 's article investigates the groups mvolved tn helpmg the Boat People adjust to society while tomorrow 'a article looks at the process of socialization. Monday's article wzll conclude by looking at what the Notre Dame community has ·· or has not --done in helping the refugees. 
Boat people: they come from Laos, Cambodia and Viet Nam in _hop~s of a new life, following~ long andtortur~usjourney on a pnmmve craft. For some, the Journey ended with refuge in a new land. For others it ended in a Malaysian displaced persons camp or death at sea. 
There are an estimated 16 million displaced persons in the world. ~f_these, a gre~t part come from Indochina as refugees from political oppresston. -They may only enter the United States if they are guaranteed sponsorship. In the South Bend area a major effort is under way to find sponsors for these people and help them establish a new life. 
The United Religious Community (URC) is heading the drive in South Bend to take these people in and give them support in starting a new life. The URC has set up the South East Asian Task Force to organize both sponsors and support groups to help in the resettlement effort. 
Many local families are sponsors making the refugee family situated and acquainted with life in midwest America. "Resettling is an· educational task," said Kevin McDonnell, chairman of the Philosophy Department at Saint Mary's College. McDonnell and his wife Carol are currently sponsoring 
[continued on page 8] 
Italian nuns among the crowd In the homily, John Paul told and told them in Italian they them: "Particularly women needed to show ''firmness and must find exactly the role that is delicacy" in. the church. He assigned to them in the church added: and benefit her (the church) of "Show yourselves above all to all their resources of faith and 
be sensible and illuminated charity. mothers and never irritated or Both times the pontiff spoke of embittered about anything. Let his trip to Ireland and the you be rather courageous in a United States. 
holy manner in following the In the homily, he said that in voice of Christ's Vicar (the both countries he had wit­pope) in a way that no nun feels nessed "the wonderful resour­depressed or separated even if ces of faith and of Christian 
she may have erred.'' dynamics which lay in the heart The nuns were mothers of our contemporary, especially superior of various orders of the young people.'' ' gathered in Rome for their In his speech to the crowd of annual assembly. 40,000 in the sun-filled square, 
Returning to the Vatican after the pope thanked President two days of rest at the papal Patrick Willary of Ireland, Uni­retreat of Castel Gandolfo, ted Nations Secretary Kurt John Paul spoke twice about W aldheim and President Carter women on the same morning. for their courtesies during the 
He said Mass for the mem­trip. He continued: bers of the Vatican Council of 
"I thank above all with pro­the Laity, who had completed a 

found affection the huge crowds week of debate on various that have gathered around the 
subjects including the role of Vicar of Christ in a brotherly women in the church. 
and filial embrace." 
1
,
precedented increases of a full percentage point in the bench­
~ 
mark prime lending rate, from 1 13.5 to 14.5 percent. -1 
1
In world markets, the dollar dropped in foreign exchange, giving up some of its gains of 
1
the past two days. Gold prices soared more than $28 an ounce 
1
to $419.50 in early trading, but 
1
later backed off to $408 in 
1
London. 
Despite all the turmoil, how­ever, many Wall Streeters con­tinued to praise the Federal Reserve's decision last week­end to bring out some heavy new ~uns in its battle against inflatton. 
Many conceded that the new steps raised the odds of at least a moderate recession in the months ahead, and potentially rugged times for such impor­tant industries as housing con­struction and auto manu­facturing. 
But they argued that whatever short term pain might result could be more than offset by the longer-term benefits of pro~­gress against rapid inflation, which many economists regard as a ticking time bomb for the 
U.S. economy. 
And they said the . market's shary declines this week did not ~ualify as any kind of "crash" hke the devastating slide of 1929, when stock prices lost nearly 50 percent of their value over a few short weeks. 
This week's slide, by contrast, represented a loss of between 7 and 8 percent, as measured by the Dow Jones industrial aver­age, through mid-afternoon yesterday. 
''There is no earthly reason for a stock-market panic," said Heinz H. Bid, a veteran market analyst with the brokerage firm of Janney Montgomery Scott Inc. "What the Fed is doing is a very constructive move. If it's successful, it will avoid a major depression in the future.'' 
"The Fed is running some risks here, but they are calcu­lated risks." said William . Griggs, a credit expert at the J. Henry Schroder Bank & Trust Co. "It is saying, 'we are soing to moderate inflation, and if you ~ive us some time we can bring 1t down significantly.''' 

Evaluation systein needs reworking 
by]im Soisson 
. Provost Timothy O'M~ara and 
the majority of faculty members 
agree that the pres.ent ~ystem 
of teacher evaluauon m the 
classroom itself needs re­
evaluating.
''The instruments for measur­
ing teaching performance are 
not as refined as those used to 
measure research contrib­
utions," O'Meara said. "Other 
methods besides the teacher 
evaluation forms should be 
developed.'' 
In a survey conducted by the 
Senate Facu.lty Committee, Chairman Ken Goodpaster found that almost 70 percent of the faculty polled were also dissatisfied with the way the forms were used. Faculty members saw the forms as only quantitative, and-since they are the sole source to judge a teacher's performance in the 
classroom--not a true measure of that performance. 
"Teachers should not be !Deasured by a one dimensional mstrument,'' Goodpaster said. "It's like walking on one leg." 
Goodpaster questioned what he called ''one of the inherent weaknesses '' in the evaluation process. "Numbers tend to speak louder than anythin~ else," he said, "especially tf you don't have anythmg else to rely on." 
O'Meara, also a mathematics professor, proposed as one possible added evaluation tool some kind of teacher visitation. This would entail teachers to evaluate their colleagues in a classroom situation. "fhis type ofthing has worked in the Math department before," he noted. 
Goodpaster also proposed the 
[continued on page 3] 


,' ' 
r r 
r 
~ )
'. 
The Observer 'Thursday, October 11, 1979-page 3 





Investigators exrunine Nursing 
by Mary Leavitt 

A team of investigators from the National League of Nursing are studymg the Saint Mary's Nursing Department to deter­mine whether to grant the department accreditation. The team arrived on campus Mon­day night and will remain until Friday. 
Preparations for this visit have been going on for over a year. In the fall of 1978, committees made up of both faculty and students began to gather infor­mation. These committees then met and anaiyzed data about facilities, student affairs, in­
struction and curriculum sourc­es. 
Their findings were published as a self-evaluation report over the stimmer in a volume conta­ining approximately 300 pages. The o~jective of ~~ investi~a­tors will be to clarify, amplify and verify the facts as present­ed in the self-evaluation repon. 
Among other things, the team will be attending conferences with the administrator of the nursing unit, Dr. Mary E. Martucci, ' talking indtvidu­ally with students and visiting classes and clinical labs. 
On Friday, upon completion of the survey, the visitors will 

Economists predict rate hike ; small business will hurt most 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Small businesses will be hit hardest ­and first -by rising interest rates, economists say. Many won't flnd credit, while others may pay more than 16 percent interest in coming weeks . 
People who buy, sell and build 

' houses also wiU be some of the first victims of rising interest rates. Economists say pros­pe~tive homeowners will find it more difficult to get mongages, which in turn wtll slow home­building. 
The Federal Reserve Board last weekend increased its bank lending rate from 11 percent to a record 12 percent and tight­ened its control on the availibili­ry of money and credit. 
J.he moves generated immedi­ate upsurges in other shon-term interest rates. The overall effect resulted in stock prices recording their steepest drop in more than five years Tuesday. 
Chase Manhattan Bank on Tuesday boosted the prime rate to its best customers by an entire percrQJ:ilg~,pQint,...to.M,~ percent. 
Small businesses, however, rarely qualify as "best custom­ers." They usually must pay 2 percent to 3 percent above the prime rate, said economist Richard landry of the U.S. Chamber of Gommerce. 
That is almost as much as 
• • . systetn 
[continued from page 1] 
class visitation idea, saying the Senate Faculty Committee will look into it, as well as other possible evaluation methods. 
Associate Professor Richard Thompson disagreed with ''vis­itation'' as a feasible evaluation method. He suggested that this could create an "artificial" situation. ''The teacher could put on a show or be so nervous that he would be unable to be himself and teach as effectively as potentially possible," he said. 
Teacher evaluation forms are but "one factor among many in determining tenure," accord­ing to Charles McCollester, coordinator of Analytical Studies. · 
Research contributions to the University and service to the communty are also criteria used in the tenure process. 

consumers pay on credit-card interest, and it makes borrow­ing very difficult for most businesses with sales below $500,000 a year, Landry said. 
Moreover, he added, there are growing reports that smaller, regional banks are hesitant to extend loans. 
Consumers who want loans also wi~l face difficulties, say econom1st~. 

submit their report. This report will include major strengths and weaknesses of the program in relation to the information presented in their self-evalua­tion. 
The report will then be pre­sented to the National League of Nursing Board of Review, which meets twice a year. This board will decide whether or not Saint Mary's School of Nursing is to receive accredita­
tion. 
Accreditation would be an 

invaluable asset for the nursing ·school. It indicates to the general public and the educa­tional community that a pro­gram has clear and appropriate objectives and is prov1dmg the conditions under which its ob­
jectives can be fulfilled. 
"Ri~ht now, things look very 
prom1sing for the nursing scho­
ol," Sr. Aloise Anne, a member 
of the National League of 
Nursing, said. "I am really 
enJoymg my v1sit and have seen 
some wonderful and impressive 
things. I hope the visit will be a 
successful one for Saint 
Mary's." 
''This visit is a very exciting 
thing for anyone involved in· 
nursmg," remarked Theresa 
Robb, a sophomore nursing 
major. "I think, Saint ·Mary's 
has really organized it well. 
The nursing teachers have kept 

"I would think that it's going • us well informed by giving us 
to ve a little harder to get a c-ar loan, a little harder to get a mortgage,"said economist Wil­iam E. Gib~on of the brokerage house Smtth Barney Harris Upham & Co. Inc. 
In a credit crunch small busi­nesses suffer hardest because they lack the avenues to borrow open to larger companies. Few small companies can issue stock to attract funds, nor do they have long-range lines of credit with their banks. 
Ifthey must borrow to weather a sales slowdown and maintain inventories, they will pay the prevailing interest rates, said economist Herman Director of the National Small Business Association. 
''The first reaction of store owners," Landry said, "will be to hold sales to obtain needed cash." 
"But if everybody holds sales at the sa,e time, it win't work and then the retailers will be forced to lay off workers," he said. "Part-time jobs will disappear and women will suf­fer because they are found heavily in this area." 
Numerous economists are predicting ·that the Federal Re­serve Board's tight-money thrust will deepen the expected recession, and unemployment­currently 5.8 percent-could reach 8 percent to 9 percent next year. 
flyers every week. The accredi­ration would really do a lot for the school." 
Whether o~ not the n~rs~og s\hool receives accreditation will be up t6 the Board· of Review after 1this Friday, but Ms. Robb said, "I really think we deserve it. After all we have a lot of successful g;adu­ares out there who speak for themselves. ­


M di G.
ar ras booths remain available 
Mardi Gras Hall Booth Chair­men are reminded that their preliminary sketches and theme tdeas are due Friday, Oct. 12. They may be submitted at the Student Government Offices or to Bob Morin, in room 368 Alumni Hall . 
There are up to three booth·; available for this year's Mardi Gras. Any interested clubs should contact Bob Morin at 368 Alumni Hall, or call 283-7781. Please do this as soon as possible; booths will be distributed on a first come, first served basis. 


•


micfiael1&co.
fiair concepti ­
Tomorrow's Hair Designs . · • . .._Today 
for Contemporary ,.
i : : . ,; "' 

Men &Women ~ 
~:·~~~ ~.·:··l ' 
North 
·Southland Pia
Yz •It HSI ef lotrt D•t 
2041 E. l..lltalnlnO•
Edi111 at lid. 2-3 ­
(219.)..291·1001'
(219) 272-7222 



Registered Nurses 
South Bend Osteopathic Hospital offers you a rewarding and satisfying career in a warm , ' friendly atmosphere conducive to your personal and professional growth. 
South Bend Osteopathic Hospital provides medical, surgical·, obstetrical, pediatric , coronary and intensive care nursinJ! with 
emphasis on truly comprehensive and personalized healthi care directed to the whole person 
For further information : please contact ~ t: ~ PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT 

~~o\ KJ\MM'S BRJ:WER.V 

Fri and Sot till JOpm 
Held over for this weekend 
Sunday noon to 6pm 
~\ls\C 
Free Admission

100 Center 
Parking
700LWW-US33 
Ente1tainment
Mishawaka 
,...----,.---------~----~~-----~~----~~--~-~ -­
The Observer Thursday, October 11, 1919 -page 4 



Mountaineerlng #2. 

,
,
, 
,r 
, 
,r 
,
, ,' 
~ 
~ 
~ 
The Buscri label iS where it · allbegins. Note .the snowy, --craggy peaks 
affixed thereto. ~~~n They 
are 
the 
;' .:·' 
moun­

taineer. And thiS iS an ad.The subject of which iS selecting the proper gear for __.~~-. mountaineering. (It all fits to­gether so nicely, doesn't it?)
First and foremost, you'll need to pop the mountain top. For thiS task, faithful morm.­taineers use a church key Secular moun­taineers use a bOttle opener. Don't be con­fused by these antics with semantics. Just remember, the opener iS your primary tool. Be true to it and it will be true to you
Second, choose a glass. Here the optionsbecome immense. German steins, hand­
_____blown pilseners, old jelly jars,thatcute little 
key used by faithful mountalneers.) 

.Boffo mugyou've had since third grade.. 
~~~~.mf.~~ ~liM~·-·.·.· Comfort iS crucial. Ifyou-. mountalneer in ~~~~ public, pick 
a padded 
bar stool, preferably one that 
spins
(to facili­tate admir­ing the 
scenery). At home, a com­
fortable chair or sofa will · do. Rule of thumb: if it feels good, and the police
don't seem to mind, do it. 
Then turn on the tube or spin a tune or crack a good bookThe choice iS strictlybetweenyou and the 
dominant hemiSphere ofyourbrain. Ofcourse, some mountaineers say the smooth, re­freshing taste of Busch · 
iS entertainment enough.thank F.,V\..1\.A..L~VOU 
do,because 
' it's an excellent -conclusion.. 
Be adventurous. Experiment. Most 
morm.taineers have a personal preference. You'll develop one too. 
Food iS next. Propermorm.taineering, not to mention proper nutri­tion, requires a smorgas­bord selection of snacks. 
Some mountaineers have suffered from a potato chip deficiency, 
a pretzel imbalance or other serious dietary de­fects. Plan ahead. 
Don't just reach for a beer. BUSCH~ad for the mountains. 
., 
. '
-~ ~ -....... -.• .. ... -.. ----~ ------.... 
·-~ 

I \ 

The Observer 1Thursday, October 11, 1979 -page s 
r---;;-.oiTHE RECORD"
Volunteer groups offer services 
I 1 · 
In th•· JOO Cent., 
Editor's note: Today' s article is .the final installment in a three­part sen'es examining the a&ti­vtltes oj \ student volunteer gro­ups at Saint Mary's anti Notre Dame. 
by Kit Bernardi 

Volunteer Services involves numerous dedicated students in its various services groups. Some of the organizations are concerned with providing community service to various locations in South Bend. These or~anizations include Angel Air Fhght, Community Services, MANASA, A VIDD, and Council for the Retarded. 
Angel Air Flight is concerned with community service work in South Bend. President Lisa Moore described Angel Air F:Ii2ht as a national organiza­pon affiliated with Air Force ROTC, but added that the group is for civilians. Some of the events the organization has planned for this year include a Halloween party for Logan Cen­ter, Christmas caroling in South Bend, and planning a fund-run for the American Cancer Soci­~ty in the sprin~. Angel Flight mvolves approxunately SO ND and SM students. 

Another program sponsored by Volunteer Services is Hot­line. 
•'Hotline provides over-the­telephone information and ref­erral," explained South Bend Campus representative Raul Aportela. Aportela described Hotline's role as "a go-between for the people(the callers) and the Sex Offense Service (SOS) in South Bend.'' Listeners are required to go through an 18-hour training session before they can worlc the 4-hour-a­week shift. This training session is a • · s·tandard thing for all listeners," Aportela empha­
sized. ·· 
One of the organizations be­longing strictly to the · community is CILA. (Commun­ity for the I'nternational Lay Apostolate) CILA's activities include community projects such as se.rying nursing homes. family-child centers, the Cor­villa House and the Northeast­ern Neighborhood Center. 
CILA also sponsors summer projects which chairman Mark Wathen described as "urban live-in experiences where mem­bers work: with clergy in various cities and in Mexico.'' 
CILA offers events for its 90 SMC/ND members which in­clude an orientation weekend and retreat weekend. 
In February, CILA will spon­sor i~s annual workshop which includes speakers on so­cial justice. 
Circle K is affiliated with Kiwanis International. It is a direct service concerned with providing volunteer services in areas where it is needed. Circle K sponsors community-service 
proj&ts and charity fund-rais­tng dtfves in South Bend. The president of Circle K at ND is Mark Skiba. 
The Community Services or­ganization works through the community service commission­ers in each dormitory. The organization informs dorms in­terested in part~cipating in vo­
[continued on page Bl 


Senate rejects emergency bills 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The Senate, rejecting two House­passed emergency spending bills, voted instead 81-15 yes­terday to stick with its own version of legislation needed to keep the government operating fully.
The House-Senate dispute, stemming largely from differ­ences over federal financing for abonions, is forcing seven major government departments and numerous smaller agencies to get by on funds left over from the fiscal year that ended 10 days ago. 
Some programs already have been cut back. And about 90,000 eln'p'ioyees of' the· departments of Transportation ana labor will receive only half pay when their next p;tychecks are due, officials of those agencies said yesterday 

Passage of the emergency legislatton by the Senate sent the bill to a House-Senate conference to work out a compromise that would keeP. the government operating unttl Congress passes regular appro­priations bills for the 1979-80 fiscal year, which began Oct. 1. · Payments for several govern­ment programs -mostly bene-
Law School 
Caravan 

to come 
The Pre-law Society and the Placement bureau of Notre Dame will sponsor the Fifth Annual Law School Caravan for the first time ever at. Notre Dame. The caravan will ve here on Wednesday, Oct. 17 from 1­
4:30 p.m. at Stepan Center. Admissions officers from over 60 U.S. law schools wiil provide information on admissions re­quirements, placement, prepa­ration at the undergraduate level, special programs, etc. 

fits administered by the Labor Depanment such as unemploy­ment compensation -already have been withheld. 
On another issue in content­ion, Senate leaders indicated they were willing to bend o~ a proposed 5.5 percent pay ratse for members of Co~gress, as demanded by the House, so long as only House members and not Senators are voted a raise. 
But on the abortion issue, there was no sign of a willing­ness to compromise on either side. Congressional leaders told President Carter at a White House Breakfast meeting they see no· easy solution to the bitter abortion dispute. 
"Right now, V:~t..r' in .t stale­mate," said Speaker l'homas P. O'Neill. 
Carter was described as con­cerned about the situation but making no move to intervene.· 
The House would authorize federal financing of abortions or ~:he prospective mothe.r' s life would be threatened. The 
te also would allow financ­ing in cases of rape, incest or threatened damage to the preg­·nant woman's health. 
Agencies affected by the financing impasse include the Departmentsof Defense, Agri­culture, Housing and Urban Development, Interior, Trans­portation, Labor, and Health, Education and Welfare. 
********************************* 
# Engineering Basketball League {< 
* *
* * 
:: Roster Deadline Friday, Oct. 12, 1979 : 
:: Submit team rosters to Engineering Dean's office including::* 1. One dollar registration fee * * 2. Name & phone numbers of the team captain * 
: * Graduate students, faculty, and women also welcome. : * * Questions call Lee/Chris #277-4692, Tom #1387. . * 
* * 
•********************************~ 


Tb Clfellial ANCAKEHOUS 
f~ Rufowuucf 

C0u11 .QpecwQty 

<Oven-CBaked <.AppQe cpancakes 
Our Specialty using fresh sliced apples topped with a sugru: cinnamon glaze never surpassed! 
U.S. 31[Dixleway] North In Roseland [Acrou from Horlday lnn]272-7433
Sun.-Thurs. 6A.M. to 9P.M. fri. &Sat. 6a.m. -10 p.m. 
I offers 10% oH on I




,I II
.EVERYTJtiNG 
I with ID & coupon RECORDS, TAPES, pataphernall~ J
L 

I ----------------.
·----------------------------------------,
: 'Hamlet''continues ! 
I I
IThe Notre Dame-Saint Mary's production I 1 of Hamlet will be presented for the last (3): 
I
I times on Oct. 11th, 12th, and 13th. 
I 
I Tickets are still available for all (3) 
I • ~
1 evenmg penormances I For reservations call 284-4176 
I 

1---------------------------------------~ 
' 
WHAT IS THE JUDICIAL COUNCIL? he council is a 29 member body composed 
of the 22 Hall Judicial Board Chairmen, the Judicial Coordinator an'd his 6 staff members. 
WHAT ARE THE, FUNCTIONS OF THIS COUNCIL? 
1. 
The council is a service organization to help all students questions or suggestions concerning the campus judicial process. 

2. 
The council is qualified to advise students on disciplinary procedures. 

3. 
The council is working on the student suggestions for DuLac. 


LOCATION? Second Floor LaFortune 283-6413 

ND SlfMIMI U.lon tWi 
Stmsbitu Promotiotls Prumt 
and Special Guest 



-Faith Band 
FRIDAY OCTOBER 19th ·8 pm Notre Dame ACC Tickets $8.50 and S7.50 
On sale now at ACC Box Office , and Student Union Ticket Office 


----------------------------. 



Features 

Thursday, October 11 , 1979 -page 6 
,
,
, 
, ~ 
, 
f 
r 
,r 
r 
r 
r 
,. 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
f 
r r r 
~ 
~ 
FIREHOUSE IS HOT! 
''Goodbye Charlie'' 
Firehouse Theatre [South Bend Civic Theatre, Inc.) 
By Edward McNally and Randy McNally 
Ever found yourself wishing chat the sexy, attractive--but also reluctant--SMC girl you've been seeing was more like the buddies you have so much fun with? Well, ifyou've always wanted to marry yourroommatethere's still hoPe_ 
That is, if you accept the delicious premise of "Goodbye Charlie," the enduring and zany comedy playing at the Firehouse Theatre this coming weekend. Under the careful hand ofdirector Rick Holderman, the South Bend Civic cast instills enthusiasm and life in this classic play. 
That is not as easy as it sounds: The title character and driving force of the comedy dies before the curtain ever rises, shot by a jealous husband while climbing out of a porthole ("After all," muses a fnend, "how many of us are lucky enough to die doing something we really believe in?"). 
We never do meet Charlie Sorel: movie-writer, glamor boy, and womanizer of great repute. With his death he leaves behind $75,000 in debts and an emotional bankruptcy ofabused andwoundedlhearts. Ironic for someone never onstage, Charlie 1s bigger than life: challenging, charismatic, controversial. "What a bastard he was!" declares Rusty,, his last and fatal lover, wistfully adding "_ .. but then again, he was so vital, so alive." As his friends join to say goodbye, it's clear that Charlie was the circus ringmaster who gave meaning to the1r lives. 
Charlie's closest friend, George Tracy, jets into this Malibu gathering to tend to final matters. Sad but not surprised, George has energetic faith in Charlie's spl,lnk:' 'Ihope he's out there somewhere screwing up the Cosmos l'' 
And so he is, and so is launched the improbable plot of this merry comedy: Charlie returns to his apartment as a breath-taking, "new born," 28-year old woman. The Cosmos has played a trick on Charlie to teach him a lesson about love, and in the process Geor~e and Rusty are caught with the table turned in their relationships with Charhe. ''Not only IS there a God,'' shouts George, at first gleeful over the predicament, "but He also has a sense of humor!" 
The new Charlie is eager to seek adventure, but it isn't all so neat: She doesn't know to wear make-up or a dress, and although the other Charlie ''deflowered the captain of the Holyoke High field hockey team at the tender age of 15,'' the femmine version is nearly twice that age and yet still a virgin. She learns fast but misses a few steps: Trapsing off to Elizabeth Arden's she looks the epitome of class in an $800 evening gown--only to be caught before LA's finest wearing only aT-shirt and jockey shorts underneath. 
At first this is all just a new game for Charlie, but romantic stirrings are evident when her playful attempts to seduce George result in frustration for them both. The turning point comes when Rusty arrives, intent on killing the scheming new Charlie. Instead, the two ladies sit down and slowly unwind with "chemical assistance" (a pitcher and a half of martinis). 
This is the best scene of the play, tightly directed by Holderman. Through the thick for Charlie suddenly learns about himself from the proud woman whose heart he broke. Charlie's goal, Rusty bitterly reflects, was to make others love him without loving them in return. ''Charlie Sorel,'' his reincarnation finally sees, ''was a real nickle-plated son of a bitch.'' 
Of course, there's a happy, almost magical ending and infectious good humor all along. Toysa True as Charlie is lovely, engaging, full of bravado and impishness. She titilates George and the audience beyond with a pair of 
' 

•GOODBYE CBAJU,n:• by George Axelrod Prod.ueU.oa ltart 
T•ellnical Dil'.cto~r . . . . .. Dav• AdnterDirected by Rick lloldercu.n llt.a~ Mal'll')et . . •••.•• t.iruh 'tol.an Set Oeaign by Dave Azinger Ll91\tinq O.d9ner ..•... aicll llol4e..-n 
Ll9bt1 ElliC'\Ited 8y • . • . . . lUI~ Jt. luda!Uiw Pro~rtial . . . , • . . . • . Ltnct. Tolan ..t Conat.r·uctlon/oeeoration . o.v. AllftOJe~:, 
,..rk Boothby, Lind• Tohn 

Greg Morris • . • . . , • • • . Dave • • • 
PubUelty/Pro9r-. , •.. , Rbod• M. AudahawAzinger WardroM . • • . . .•• Cindy Kohk1 Georqe Tracy • • • . • . • . • Corky Ni.mt.z 1\01)18 Mar~ca.,.t . • • . . • . . Jlonwt l.uitwlek 
lox Ottlce . . . . . . . . . . lklr.a Ludwick, Irving • • . • . . . • . . • . Tim Dixon 
Franny Saltzma.n . • . . • • • . Carole John•on 
Rhoda Jt. ar•dah&w Poatar-O.Ul9n ••••... , Krle lander• 
H11. Shriber . • . . . . . . • . Rhoda M. Brad•haw Rusty Mayerling .....•.. Sharry Edmonda 
C~arlie • . •.: • • . • • . • • Toyaa True Aeknowledq-nt• 
Prelbyterlan Play1r1 River Park Furniture , t..cher.e S&lon • lo~o~tiq.,. Patric:.l.a Pritchard 

Time: Present 
Place: The beach house of the LATE Indian•C::rti~.i~~:n. co. Charles Sorel, a few mil6'8north A ap.etal heart-felt good whhal, ~t -u, an4 of Malibu 
ap.edy r..,..,.ry t.o Sill Gool•y, 1'telld'"'t of South a.nd Clvte .. , ..... We •in you:~~~ 
~e 
COilkY NlMT~ IO.Orgel -Ito 1tun9er t.o rlr•houuScene 1 -8:00 P.M., Sunday evening a~o~dleneea, Corky' wea lalt 111n 11 Or. CullrowJ.c: Scene 2 -8~30 P.M. 
~~r~ug:!•~:n~~ta:::i:;!.t ':1:tfl;~e~:! lUSB,
Scene 3 -A few minutes later 
friiiVt.ad.an Play1r1, the Country Pbyhouaa, Sta­
ter Lakes PL1yho1.1ae. •• -a •• at civic, where he won thiJt Blat Actor kw•rd for hh ).916 per­fol'111anee of Paul ln Si• ltoou lliv vu. 
~ 
SltAitltY EOMOtiOI Ull.l•tYI -Mak1n9 her t1rehouee 
debu.t., St\arry 1a t.Matrle&t experteru::l ln.c:lude•Scene 1 -Late Monday afternoon prochaetiOI11 at her alN ...ter, Riley Hiqh lehool. Scene 2 -That night and workinq with neiqhborhood playhou..l 1n New 
York C1ty. 
TOYSA TRUt ICharli•l -Althouqh Nkln; her rtre­· * There will be one • 
liouee debut, Toyaa 11 by no -ana 1 ltranqer t.o Miehiana theet.re-CJC)Ire:! l'tolt r•eencly ••en ••
15 minute intermission 
lillie Dalln in Presbyt.1rhn Player•' produet1on of lorn Y••t.erday, Toy hal p.rfontctd with Canur 
Refreshment-a are in the
sold lobby Ita~ PrOds. and lht•r Lake• Playho~o~••· Her erlditl lnelllde La•t. .of the Red Hot [;OYirl, The Pr1.. of •ttu J'•an BrOdie, Yanltl••· and aa -
GOOgl• COiiit In 'l'bi ilu 1WJil"CCIi11" eonllden 
Produced by apecial arrangement with her role:r-­
favorite 
Samuel French, Inc. 
outrageous and sexy outfits--a sort ofCharlie's Angel in more ways than one. True's_ac~ing is as faithful as her name: In the scene with Rusty she does such a convmcmg drunk that I half-expected to hear Sinatra closing Goose's with 
"My Way." 

C<,>rky Nimtz plays <?-eorge with charm and aplomb, though sometimes lell:vmg the character w1th more vagueness than is written into the play. His qUlck acceptance of Charlie's transformation is unconvincing, as is the undefined difficulty in loving the new Charlie. Nimtz is a good actor who needs better pacing: He is captivating in his best moments onstage with ~rue, but there are missed opportunities on what should be some very funny hnes. 
A~ ~'!'sty, Sharry Ed~onds has many good moments, showing control and sensmvtty to the changmg moods on stage. Her character, however, needs more of the vitality and glamour that the role demands. 
Tim Dixon plays a cool and sophisticated Irvin~, the best of an inconsistent supporting cast. Thef'e is also a very funny ba by Carole Johnson as the eminently proper Franny Salzman who, weeping and searchin~ for words on Charlie's death, finally expresses the way they all feel wah a rousing exclamation' unprintable here. 
''Goodbye Charlie'' is a virtually indestructable comedy, and despite a slow start director Holderman sets a crisp, well-patterned pace to lead up to the crucial scenes. 
The show is fun, as is the intimate (80 seats) Firehouse Theatre, carved from the abandoned Fire Station at 701 Portage Avenue, where they serve some of the best coffee in town. To this one say "Hello!" 
"Goodbye Charlie" will be performed Thurs--Fri--Sat [Oct. 11,12, 13[ at the Firehouse Theatre in South Bend. Showtime is 8:30p.m., and tickets are $3.00ea.forstudents. For reservations call: Days: 234-5696, Eve: 233-0683. 

Notre Dame ~ On The Air 
In their constant search for new programs, the 1V networks are very mterested in Notre Dame, and for very good reasons. When the Irish football and basketball teams are on, the networks make a killing in the Nielsen ratings. Across the country, there are -hordes of alumni and other Notre Dame-lovers who never tire of reading, seeing and hearing about the world of Du Lac. In an effon to tap this great resource of potential viewers, all three 1V networks have researched and developed many new programs dealing with and geared for ND students, alumni and friends. For instance.... 
"THE GRADIE BUNCH" 
Situation comedy_ The continuing saga of a family of three boys and three girls, each of whom is over­whelmmgly concerned with main­taining a high GPA. 
"THE SOD SQUAv" 
Drama. The adventures of the ND Groundskeepers as they battle to keep the lawns watered and students drenched. 
"DEVINE THE C6ACH" 
Game show. Student contestants are presented on stage with a forked dowsing rod and they attempt to divine who the next ND football coach will be. 
"THE WONDERFUL WORLD OF 
DIZZIES" 
Travelogue. Marlin Perkins hosts a 
tour of the women's dorms of Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's. 
"DEAN FOR A DAY" 
Game show. Student is chosen from 
the studio audience and becomes the 
Dean of Students for 24 hours. 
During that time, the lucky student 
can abolish sobriety, outlaw chastity 
or alter campus life in any way 
whatsoever by issuing a directive ~ 
that "has the force of a University 
regulation." 
"PLACE THE NATION" 
Game show_ A member of the ND faculty appears before .a blindfolded panel ofstudents who try to guess his nationality from listening to his accent. 
"MEET THE PRESSER" 
PerSonality talk-show. Conversa­tions with the laundry-worker who puts the crease in denim blue-jeans are highlighted. 
"NAME 1HAT GRUEL" 
Game show. Student contestants who can tell what the dining hall's main course is from viewing a single helping are awarded prizes such as Atka-Seltzer and McDonald's gift­ct>rtificates. 

ONE DAY OUT OF NINE" 
Situation comedy. The story of 
Father Hesburgh's visits to the Notre 
Dame campus. 

"WHAT'S THIS UNE" 
Action drama. Exciting emergency 
rescues of students who pass out 
from starvation while waiting in 
dining hall lunch lines. 
"60 TICKETS" 

News documentary. Mike Wallace 
interviews members of the Ticket 
Office staff in an attempt to discover 
why no tickets are allotted to students 
for away football games. 
"BOWUNG FOR MAlLARDS" 
Sports-game show. Campus ducks 
gather at the local lanes and compete 
for cash and merchandise. 
"NAPPY DAYS" 
Situation comedy. The adventures 
of a student who wants to sleep with 
his girl-friend without violating parie­
tals. 

"THE PRICES BI1E" 
Daytime serial. The dramatic story of the Bookstore personnel and their struggle to invent new NO-embroi­dered items and to maintain their 
·campus monopoly on record albums­and sundries. 
Mark Ferron 

''THE WRONGS SHOW'' (also known as "WHAT'S MY WHINE") Game show. Student contestants present complaints against compa­nies whose products are used or sold on campus and give reasons why they should be boycotted. A panel of three faculty or administration per­sonnel rate the wrongs from one to ten and the top vote-getter receives the title of "InJustice of the Week." 
"THE BEST OF DISCO" 
Music and dance exhibition. Thirty minutes of silence from New York's Studio Fifty-five. Couples attired in silk and leather are forced to stand around and try to hold intelligent conversations. 
"LEAVE IT TO FEVER" 
Situation comedy_ The madcap adventures of che staff of the Student Health Center as they try to stop students from saying "Infirmary' , while they dispense codeine. 
"MY THREE BEERS" 
Drama. Student awakes and tries to recall how and why so many drinks got spilled on him while he was at the bars. 
"FUNSMOKE" 
Drama. The rampages of Mat Dillon who roots out those that would use marijuana or any other ''unac­ceptable substance.'' 
-~ -~-­

The Observer Features October 11,, 1979 ­

IMusicviewsl 


Reflections on The Cult 

the listener the impression that this progression has been detoured · at least for a moment. · 
Ever since the phenomenal success of "Don't Fear the Reaper," from the Agents of Fortune LP, cult watchers have harbored a latent fear that the group might be tempted to deviate from its established, al­though unconventional, course, to gain more appeal in the watered­down, but profitable, area of com­mercial radto. Indeed, lead singer Eric Bloom told nie after a recent concert that BOC definitely has not received the recognition he feels it deserves. 
' 'A lot of the groups that used to open for us on the road like Kiss andThe Rolling Stone ad reads, "With Cheap Trick, have gone on to become one eye looking backward and nine very popular . and very rich," Bloom eyes on the road ahead, Blue Oyster recalled. "But we're still not veryCult presents Mirrors.'' After well known, and believe me, we'relistening to the cult's new album, one certainly not making much moneyhas to agree · unfortunately. The because of it."

only thing is, with nine eyes looking in different directions, and only one Although the Spectres LP provedlooking where it should be, the music that the Cult was holding its ground on BOC' s new release has drifted after its "Reaper" success, Mirrors 
aimlessly from the group's establish­seems to offer evidence that the ed course. 
~roup is nowrethinking itsima_ge-and These five guys have come a long tts music. The listener senses this way from the days when they played right from the start with the opening
bars on Long Island in the early 70s, cut, "Dr. Music." Has the cult gone but on each new album they've 
disco? Have theytaken a page out of 

released since then, the _group has Kiss' "Dr. Love" songbook? While made a practice of refining and these questions are still ringingbuilding up ~he strong_Points in ~heir through your head, the followup act, and their reputatton as a ttght, sons, "The Great Sun Jester," a albeit a bit strange, rock combo, has bonng, repetitive, four-minute evolved accordingly. Mirrors gives pseudo-ballad, raises a batch of 
OUT OF HIDING 
Mick Mancuso 

David Werner has been hiding for the transformation they are put the last four and a half years. Ev~r through make them much more t)lan since recording Imagint~tion Quota 10 pop without being abstract. A pnme 1975 at the young age of 21, he has example is "Every New Romance," been absent from the music scene, where the influence '()f Roxy Music is unnoticed by all but those few that unmistakable. But not content to had J?icked up on his early _works. remain in this style, the album forses This 10 a sense is a shame s10ce the ahead to explore other areas. "Htgh Bowie-esque singer-songwr~ter was Class Blues" is a good example, doing better stuff than ~owte at the telling the problems of those who time. I had almost gtVen up on learned at the Country Club school: hearing from Werner again until 
Like to live together,

recently when I heard "Hold On 
but Daddy disapproves, 

Tight" on the ra_dio. . At first. I 
says that he'll disown me,

thought It was Bowte com10g up wtth 
the best thing he could do. 

another winner, the similarity of style 
We're the lonesome creature, 

is that strong, but was pleasantly 
hangin' on the avenue, 

su~rised to find out that Werner had 
just a boy and a girl,

dectded to give it a go again. When I 
hiding from the high class blues. 

finally received the album, I found that it too was a surprise. An added extra on this number is the 
What is surprising about this albu!D presence of Ian Hunter singing ~ is that Werner has branched out 10 harmony. The blend of the two terms of style while retaining what voices is perfect for the song. was "Werner" on his first two The changes of styles continue albums. "Hold On Tight" is an throughout the album. "Can't excellent example of the David Imagine" and "Eye To Eye" are Werner that so closely followed the good examples of Werner's percep­Station to Station David Bowie tion of the current New Wave-Power school. But instead of focusing on Pop-Rock and Roll trends. They this style, expansion is felt throug~­come off very well, as do ''Melanie out the album. In most of Werner s Cries" and "She Sent Me Away", 
the lines are simple yet both slower cuts. Some might say that Werner can't find where he wants to go but the impression I had was different. Werner doesn't want to go in any one direction but instead chose variety as his style. This makes his work hard to classify as a whole but terrific to listen to. This album is getting the recognition. that the first two never got. The ttmes have changed and the public is more receptive to what Werner has been trying to do for some time, The album deserves every good word that can be said about it; it's appeal will infect many musical tasts. Hopefully then, we won't wait forever and David Werner will come out in the 
for 

·]ohn McGrath 
others like: When will this song be without boring you to death. BOC's over? Is this really Blue Oyster forte -making records that mean Cult? more than the face value of their music -is brilliantly present on this 
iFortunate_Ix things improve some­
cut. 

what from that slow start. While not "I Am the Storm" comes at you like exactly in the traditional BOC style, its name s1,1g~ests, and this one lives"In Thee," a catchy, upbeat tune, up to anything on BOC' s previousgives the listener some hope. It's releases. Buck Dharma ts givenmusically fragile, with a string arran­
distance to roam on guitar leads, asgement in the background, but the the Cult roars back to form on thisCult adapts well. 
sophisticated rocker. The song grabs 
tAnother step up, and you have, you musically and, like other Cult 
"You're Not the One (I Was Looking standards, you can sink your teeth 
F.:>r)" "Don't Fear the Reaper" it's into the lyrics: 
not, but with a super-catchy beat, 
restrained guitar work and more 
When you see the clouds blacken, 
down-to-earth lyrics than typical, I 
Remember, _;you've been warned,
pick this as the LP's single. It's not a 
No shelter from the fierce winds,
total sell-out to the Cult tradition, and 
Because I am the Storm. 
maybe it'11 fmally get Bloom !and the 
boys their Rolls Royces. 

The two remaining cuts don't reallyThe saving graces of Mirrors come sttike the listener either way. It'sin three doses. The title cut is a tight probably no coincidence that "Lonelyrocker with a relentless beat. 
Teardrops" and "Moo Crazy" are"Mirrors" is also a candidate for the last songs ootheir respective sides single status. In fact, it might be a of the album. Seemingly cast fromlittlebit too much on the top 40 side the same mold, the songs try to catch 
for some Cult followers, with its your attention with a moderate beat,Styx-like background vocals, but heavy emphasis on drums intermixed overall, it too stacks up with the BOC with synthesizer, and good, but brief,style. 
guitar breaks. I guess you could say 
Side Two's opener, "The vigil," the attempt is largely successful, but 
restores a lot of the listener's faith after listening to the Blue OysterCult
in the cult. Here's a song that follows for years, you get the feeling with 
in the footsteps of classic predeces­these cuts, as with most of the rest of 
sors like ''Astronomy,'' ''Nosfera­the album, that something is miss­
tu" and "Revenge of Vera Gemini." 
ing. Maybe it would pay BOC to It's one of thoSf mysterious, moody, refocus some ofthe eyes lookingahead 
yet musically dynamic cuts that only before everything that's come before 
a group like Blue Oyster Cult can do is out of sight. _ 
. -­



Fear Of Music 
Tim Sullivan 
Simply put, Fear ofMusic is not a experience of an altered state with 
very good Talking Heads album, ~ut uncanny accuracy. But overall, Fear 
it is an excellent Brian Enu sesswn lacks the essence of melody that 
recording. made the first albums so enjoyable. 
In other words, Ff',ll" is poeti<., but the 
This third release bv the arty 1 lyrics are lost in t hi'" noise~ darlings ofNew Wave mi~imal music simply doesn't measure up to the 
No doubt the title sten.s hun. theenjoyable standards of their first two album's lack ofmelody and tone~ Are
records '77 and More Songs about 
the Heads telling us something?
Buzldings and Food. On these two 
Have they redefined New Wave toLP's, the Heads expanded the scope what is little more than poeticof New Wave from animalistic punk­cacaphony? Let's hope not-· 11 simplyrock expressions to meaningful state­doesn't work as a mu"ical expression. 
ments on society, while still main­taining the simplistic arrangements Disappointmem n·su!Ls when a
inherent in their musical genre. In group wtth promise and talent srallsorder to make their songs listenable, out after gathering so much momen­the Heads introduced quaint analo­tum. If you want to investigate Newgies and controlled melodies to Wave music, the Heads are tops inpunk's. power chording and banal the field, but ignore Fear ofMusic.
screamtng. 

Listen instead to '77 and More Songs, and hope the Heads return to a moreHowever, Oil Fear, rhe Heads seem positive direction. 
to be more concerned with the process of creating music, rather than the music itself. The analogies are gone, and the melodies are obscure, if at all present. If not for producer Brian Eno's "treatments" ·on the keyboards and at the mixing board, Fear would be an intolerable 
album. 

This is not to say that the record is without value. Most of the songs deal with the pressun;s of touring for a long time on the road, something the Heads have been doing a lot since 
the success of their single last year, "Take Me to the River." "Cittes," for example, expresses the similarity of places after extended periods of travel, and "Drugs" is a startling aural assault which the 

The Observer Thursday, Octaber 11, 1919 -page 8 
bility in resettling refugees
[continuedfrom page 1] 
from Indo-China in the United 
the family of Nguyen Van Hot. States Catholic 'charities, the Lutheran Refugee Service, and
Along with a support group and Church World Service. These
Catholic Charities, he believes that this is a crisis he can help agencies actt as a go-between 
solve. "I can become personal­for refugees and potential spon­
• • .Society 
ly involved in it. It's not just sors. It might be said that the 
giving money, it is giving refugees are co-sponsored by something of yourself.'' an agency and a private group. There are three organizations In the South Bend area, 
approximately 45 individuals
that take the priJl1ary responsi-
Senior class to hold party 
by Bruce Oakley 
ding to Schneeman. The party serve drinks in exchange for 
"Senior Class President Nick will feature a ''Best Costume'' 1 drink tickets, which can be Schneeman last night announc­contest, with cash awards for purchased at the party. A band ed that the senior class will the winners and bottles of 1 will perform dunng the party, sponsor a Halloween party to be champagne for the runners-up Schneeman said. held on the ACC Concourse in both individual and group Party Chairman Pat Curtin 
...from 9 p.m. until 2 a.m. on 'categories. made a call for volunteers to XWednesday, October 31. · A catered bar similar to that at help with organization, ticket Costumes and 21 I.D.s wtll be last year's Junior Parents sales flr decorations. _ required for admission, accor-. Weekend Cocktail Party wilJ ''Anyone who would like to 

help us in whatever way ­ticket sales, publicity, anything -should contact either Nick or myself as soon as possible," she said. 
Volunteers may reach Curtin at 7233, or Schneeman at 3700. Tickets for the party go on sale next Wednesday. The $3 price includes the admission fee and one drink ticket, redeemable for 
{continued on page 10] 


Grit 

~Outta~11llan 
.!.(Qeto 

A rousing contemporary comedy in the Medieval style Presented by Lamb's Players' Street Theatr 

TONIGHT AT 5:30Pm . ­
IN FRONT OF THE SOUTH DINING HALL 
... • f ~I " 

have been resettled in the last 50 days. To date, Catholic Charities of the diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend has acted with the Southeast Asian Task Force to find homes and jobs for these people. According to ] ulie Holstein, refugee co-ord­inator of the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese, there is a need for both sponsoring families and support groups. Support groups are an ideal way for college students to become involved in the effort.'' she said. 
Sponsoring a family requiresmuch more than just finding them a place to stay. The commitment is for at least one year of constant support and the follow up counseling often 
goes on for years. According to McDonnell, the refugees must often be taken to the hospital during their first few weeks for health reasons. They must also be transported and they need orientation into the complex­ities of life in modern America. There are so many areas that need to be covered that it is very difficult for a sponsoring family to do it alone. 
Another major problem in the resettlement of refugees is the language barrier. In the first wave of refugees who came 
(continuedfrom page 5] 
lunteer projects in South Bend. Projects consist of serving day­care centers, parishes and nurs­ing homes. 
President of MANASA, Cathy Whalen describes that group as an "organization on a college level consistinf of 50 volunteers s.erviD;~ menta health organiza­tiOns. 
MANASA projects include 
working at Memorial Hospital 
in the Psychiatric Wards. aid­
ing the men at the Medica~ 
Halfway' House, and visiting 
patients in nursing homes. 
MANASA also has an apart­
ment living project which in­
volves casework on a on~-to-one 
basis with former mental t>ati­. ents living in the commuruty. 
MANASA.also promotes educa­
tional r.ctivities within its· 
projects 
AVIDD is an abbrevation for 
from Southeast Asia in 1975, many were educated people who already spoke English. This new influx of refugees contain many farmers and fish­ermen who are either illiterate or semi-literate and leaching them English will be an ext­remely difficult task. Dr. Chou Le, assistant vice-president for Advanced Studies and himself a refugee who arrived in 1975 said there is a great need fo; persons to give one on one English instruction to help the re~gees grasp .English more qUickly. He pomted out that educated refugees also need personal instruction if they are ~ver to re-enter their profess­
tons. 
McDonnell pointed out sever­al other major problems ftcing the refugees besides the lan­guage barrier. Many refugees desire immediate employment, yet they are rarely prepared for tt. "They want to become self-sufficient right away, but first they must become func­tional in our society,'' MeDon-• nell said. ''That is our first goal, to make them able to move around and be self-suffic­ient in their new country." 
Tomorrow's article wz/1 in­vestigate the process by which the boat people are socialized. 

• • • Services 
·'A Voluntary Interest in the Developmentally Disabled." AVIDD works with patients at the Northern Indiana State Hos,Pital. The aid is on a group or mdividual basis organized into recreational groups or spe­cial help groups. 
The 75 volunteers work a minimum of one hour each week with retarded and multip­ly handicapped patients. 
One of A vidd' s most important activities is its sponsorship of the.Special Olympics held every sprmg. 
The Council for the Retarded serves the Logan Center. The basic program followed by 230 SMC/ND volunteers is one consisting of Saturday recrea­tion and other activities with retarded children and adults . 
The Council for the Retarded also sponsors dances on Friday nights, a carnival, Christ· mas party and camping trips. 

UNITED WAY at N. D• 
percent 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 


20 10 0 

FA Fl FL GR HC HO KE LE L Y MO PA SE SO ST WA ZA
AL BA BP CR CV Dl 

PARTICIPATION CHART 

administration of either institution. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The n~ws. is reported as. accurately and 



-The Observer_ 

as obJecuvdy a~ posstble. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor.. ................ Mark Perry represe~t t~e opmton of a majority of Manllging Editor..........Diane Wilson Features Editor.... .Kathleen-Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46JJ6 the Edttonal Board. Commentaries Editonal Editor.............. Ann Gales Photo Editor..............Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor...... ... M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor......Mike Lewis Business Manager........Steve Odland n~spaper published by the students able to all members of ~he community, News Editor .................... Mark Rust Production Manager.......Tim Sullivan of the University of Notre Dame du lac an~ . the free expressiOn of varying News Editor.............. ... Mike Shields Advertising Manager... .t•••• •Bob Rudy opm10ns on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor.....Ellen Buddr. Controller............... ... Kevin Manion rdlect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor........Margie Brasstl Circulah'on Manager......Greg Hedges 


The Observer 
[continuedfrom page 12] 
delivery to DeCinces. Two pitches later, the Orioles third baseman unloaded a long homer into the left field bleach­ers, making the score 5·0. 
DeCinces thus became the 15th man in World Series history to hit a ho.mer in his first Series swing. Among the others w~sthe legendary Balti­more third baseman Brooks Robinson, DeCinces' predeces­sor at the position for the Birds and the man who threw out the first ball Wednesday night. 
When Billy Smith followed with a single, it finished Kison, who threw 27 pitches and retired only· one batter in the long Baltimore inning. Jim Rooker relieved and stopped the Baltimore rally. 
The five-run rally fell two runs short of the biggest first inning in any World Series game, a seven-run romp by the Mil­wauke Braves against the New York Yankees in 1958. 
The only good thing about the big Orioles' inning for the Pirates was that it came in Baltimore's first at-bat, and it gave Pittsburgh eight chances to come back. The Pirates very nearly made it-with DeCinces' help. 
Flanagan piched his way out of jams in the fourth and ft.fth innings. He surrendered lead­off singles to Foli and Parker in the fourth. An infield grounder by Stargell scored Pittsburgh's first run. 
In the fifth, Flanagan surren­
dered a leadoff double to 
Garner but retired the next 
three batters. 
In the sixth, Parker and Bill 
Robinson opened with singles. 
Flanagan recovered to strike 
out Stargell, and he got Bill 
Madlock on a fly ball. Then, 
however, DeCinces kicked a 
grounder by Steve Nicosia, 
loading the bases. 
Now, Flanagan dueled Gar­
ner, the Orioles' southpaw got 
ahead on the count 1-2, but the 
scrappy Pittsburgh second 
baseman fouled off three pitch­
es to stav alive. Finally, Garner 
STEREO CLEARANCE HOUSE 
HAS LOWEST STEREO 

PRI 
Pioneer SX780 receiver $259. 
Technics SLD2 turntable $109. 
Akai GXC706D cassette deck $159. 
Our Free Catalog has many more deals on major brands. even lower prices on our monthly specials sheet. Send now and find out how to buy current $7.981ist lp's for $3.69. Stereo Clearance House Dept. CH81, 1029 Jacoby St., Johnstown. Pa. 15902. Phone Quotes 814-536-1611. 
ARWBNOO'S 
BARSh & HAIR 
STYLE SHOP 

1437 N. Ironwood Dr South Bend 277-o6i5 Sue, Ruthie, Kim ArmandO--stylist 
•on:.wed-ftl 8-5:30 tuea-thu11 8-8 pm IClt 8-2 by appt. ofti.Y 
• • • Birds 
won the· battle with a·· two-run single to left. 
Pinch hitter Lee Lacy gave DeCinces another chance to end the inning, and again the third baseman booted the ball, load­ing the bases. He thus became the first third baseman in 69 years to make two .errors in one Series inning. Harry Steinfeldt of the Chicago Cubs was the last one to do it, in 1910. 
Flanagan, however, survived. He got Omar Moreno on a fly ball to close out the inning. 

need printing in a hurry? 100 -11 x 17 posters only $10.00 203 N. Main South Bend 289-6977 the wiz of the printtrlg biz! 

•~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
1 
I· 

Interhall 
MIXED DOUBLES • Stmi-FIRIIS 
Hammer-Burton (1653) vs. Manglne­
West {6888). 
Didler-Berheim {8067) vs. Dawson· Sullivan (8755). 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Championship Results 
Eileen Rakochy defeated Jay Declo. 
MEN'S OPEN Quarter.finals 
M. Hickey (16~) vs. K. McQuade 
(277·2120). B Straccia (3336) vs. K. Simpson 
(3381).
J. Burke {8528) vs. M. Pierret (1814). 
K. Brockelman (289-1718) vs. B. Beutter (1786). 
MEN'S NOVICE 
FINIIS 
M. Binkle (3574) vs. R. Morgan (3217). 


Thursda , October 11, 1979 -page 9 


J2.0Q oH any purchase over S2.00 The Goodwill Stores 
1805 Westetn So. Bend 1632 Nappanee Elkhart 220 Ftont St. Niles 220 main Goshen 

OFFER EXPIRES 12/11/79 



eFirst 
ove 
toanNSA 







IsYours. 

The National Security Agency is seeking top graduating students in Liberal Arts, Business and Mathematics to meet the , challenges of exciting, demanding careers. 
The first move is yours! To qualify for consideration, you must compete successfully on the Professional Qualification Test (PQT). The PQT will be given on campuses throughout the nation on November 17, 1979. You must, however, register for the test by November 3, 1979. 
By scoring well on the PQT, you will be contacted regarding an interview with an NSA representative. We will discuss the specific role you will play in furthering this country's communications security or producing,vital foreign intelligence information. 
The PQT helps to measure your potential for career opportunities in such diverse fields as: 

Programming -NSA's vast communications analysis projects need the management of people who are intimately involved with the latest developments in 
.., computer hardware/software. 
Languages -Foreign languages are valuable, vital tools used at NSA for research and analysis. Advanced training can be anticipated as well as the possibility of learning another language. 
Information Science -A field, drawing upon a multiplicity of disciplines, involving the collection, stora~e, retrieval, interpr~tation and d•sse111ination of information. 
Communications -Scientifically devised, tested and managed cryptografhic systems ensure the maximum degree o security in transmitting sensitive information around the globe. Since crypto~raphy is a rather unique pursuit, the traming of new employees 1s extensive and esoteric. 
Other Opportunities -A limited number of applicants may be selected for management support areas such as Personnel, Security, Logistics and Resources Management. 
NSA 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 

Register Now For The PQT 
Pick up a PQT bulletin at your college placement office. Filrout the registration form and mail it before November 3 in order to take the test on November 17. There is no registration fee. 
Those individuals graduating with a Bachelors or Masters degree in Electronic Engineering, Computer Science or Slavic, Near Eastern or Far Eastern languages may interview without taking the PQT, Mathematicians, at the Masters degree level, are also exempt from having to qualify on the PQT and may sign up for an interview. 
For NSA career positions, U.S. citizenship, a thorough background investigation, and a medical examination are required. 
National Security Agency Attn: M32R , Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755 
111aillt-il_niiiilolilo8p1pt.il•nliiiie1eded•••l L. ----·······---------------·····----·-····•••••••••••••• 



ALROSS 27 Items for 32 charwomen 33 

The Observer Thursda_y, October 11, 1979 -page 10 
[continued from page 8] 
lost some money on the class the hats, which are gold-pain­sale. 
one mixed drink or two glasses picnics, because of the prices ted baseball helmets with a 
He added, however, that due of beer. we charged, "Schneeman said. small statue of the Virgin Mary 

to produciton difficulties, the Schneeman expects the Hal­"But we expect to get most of attached to the top, Schneeman class will sell its current inven­
loween bash to be the "best that back with the sale of said that he went throught the
• • • Party tory of the hats and then 
party of the year. He noted that 'golden domer' hats for the proper channels and received 
discontinue sales. 
all seior class events this year USC game." Fr. Van Wolvear's approval 
Schneeman encouraged sen­have been ·well ·attended. "We Despite the controversy over before offering the hats for 

iors to buy the-hats, because seniors get a panial return on 
Molarity 

"-and 5 Compulsive Peace" 
action 34 Steeple 10 Unruffled 36 Is wanting 14 Inspiration 39 Turkish 15 "My Mother officials 
Was-" 41 Vaudeville 16 Opera song acts 17 Snug home 43 Gumption 18 Memento 44 Like some 19 Bench's fish 
glove 46 Asian 20 Street capital level 48 Pie-mode 23 Haggard 49 Minim novel 51 Henry VIII 24 On pension: in a film abbr. 53 Nicaraguan 25 Kitchen city appliance 56 Louis XIV 

The Daily Crossword 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

their purchase in that ' the receipts will be used to pay for 
class events.
by Michael Molinelli 

coin 52 Wintry 4 Planet 53 Kind of 5 Cars syrup 6 Hebrew ··a'" 54 Relieve 7 Dance 55 Defame 8 Dunce 59 Heraldic 9 Business border 

VIP 60 Withdraw 10 Notched from a wheel habit 11 Top echelon 61 Emanation 
denizen 62 Error 12 Supple 63 Wrigglers 13 Alma-65 Roman 
All Rights Reserved 10/11/79 21 Fiber knots bronze 

In reference to the fine attendance at senior class events so far, Schneeman con­cluded: "We hope they keep coming.'' 
,Inter hall 

Wednesday's Football 
Off-campus 21, Sorin 0 Holy Cross 0, Carroll 0 St. Ed's 15, Cavanaugh 14 
~ 

Support flghtin' Irish Hockey 
Tickets On Sale Now 
Through Friday 9am-9pm includes noon hour 
ND and SMC Studenr~ I 'I> Game St"a'ion Ticket $13.00 Friday-Nighr-Scries (7 games) $7.00 Saturday Night Srries (6 games) $6.00 
One ($) Ticket per J.D. 
If you wish to sir with a 
friend, present your I. D. 
cards together. Four (4) 
I.D.'s maximum. 
64 66 
67 
U8 69 
70 71 72 
73 
2 3 
a sort Entreaty Bali apparel Stubborn 
one Filigree Moslem 
world Seed cover Regards Adolescent 
years Racecourse 
circuits 
DQWN Chinese dynasty German 
river 
Mexican 
21:1 29 
30 31 35 37 
38 40 
42 45 47 
50 

a stick Shakespear­
ean rat Family 
member Punjab 
Hindu Courtroom 
procedure Italian 
volcano Metric 
measure The Man Wheys Tupelo 
trees Venetian jurist Stravinsky Chaplain's station 
Class ifieds  All classified ads mto the issue in which classifieds Monday tclassifieds must be p ust be received by 5:00 p.m.. two days prior the ad is run. The Observer office will accept hrough Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All re-paid. either in person or through the mail.  
Personals Jenny Murtagh, Congrats on making It to 18! California Girl Jennifer, Have an excellent time on you 18th. The snake doesn't know what he's missing! Margi Eileen. Congratulations, No. 1 Tennis Champ (Those Buckwheats finally did It!) Love, Lynnette, Chris, Jeanne, and Laurie 3rd floor Dillion Is your name, "Obnoxious" personals are your garr~. We had some laughs; you do entertain. Now get the clue: Where's your cham­pagne??!! LeMans Girls John EARdley. Good luck on your LSAT. Next time it rains bring your umbrella. MK Figure this one out third floor Regina North, ?'($ (&II+(X $1--&88 *&:§-­*!Z(! !)) XZ(36!) II you give up just ask Laura Turchan St. Ed's S. Y. A. Party: We heard two cutles reside in room 409 But WHERE THE HELL IS IT? Looking forward to plenty of fun. Two 3rd fToor A. N. Foxes. Hey J.J., You're Legal now... Live It up! Nanc  Happy i8th Jenny. What a woman! from "Obnoxious" T.C. Today Is Jim Albertoli's birthday!!! Call 1049 to wish him a happy one. birthday kisses accepted all day at 321 Flanner. Happy Birthday Jim!!! LeMans Girls, Warm beer. cold pizza breakfast Sunday, 7 a.m. Be there. Aloha. Grand Poopah & Co. 6th Floor Flanner lgnoramouses. Get a clue about what we're talking about. Pull your heads out! 3rd floor Dillon Lori H. Please accept. Dressing up isn't so bad. Greg CCW&D MEETS FRIDAY IN RM 399 LEMANS HALL 4:110, BRING $2, SAIL1 lNG GEAR* COEX CARD. Forsale-1 LUIGI BIRD. Cheap, Cheap. Leash incl. Call 2-3088. JIM, Now we're really twins! MO'BF JENNIFER MURTAGH IS A FOX! Glona, I couldn't think of one damn thing to say. 1won't say anythinq about smiles or being forward or women s liberation. I'll lust go back and write my papers...but, hey, you're right. Springsteen WISH THE FOX A HAPPY BIRTHDAY. CALL 8037.  -Mary I want my LIFE back --Please. Signed: WRARRONG OMBUDSMAN PICNIC FOR ALL MEM1 BERS. FRIDAY* 5 P.M. ON HOLY CROSS LAWN. BE THERE.! ATTENTION...the REAL DANCIN' BEAR is hybernatlng, waiting for a DANCIN' BEARETTE to bring him outl D.S. 1479 /1*!!?1#!! it Paula, Happy Birthday! Best Wishes to the foxiest Farleyite of 'em all. (Maybe that'll get me seconds for Thanksgiving dinner) Have a gorgeous day. The Black Sheep of the "Family" J.JM. Why didn't you tell me it was your Birthday? Love, Ma -Ree! Jennifer, Let's celebrate! I'll make sure you get home safely. "The Lightweight" Jenny, Did you get any new sweaters we can borrow? Happy Birthday! The Aspiring Preps from Michigan John and Mark, Sure hope you guys appreciated the gong. Still waiting for the rum and tab! Aommies "We share" ATTENTION: All Long Islanders HAPPY HOUR-Senior Bar 4-6 Friday, Oct. 12, Beers 3/$1 LONG ISLAND CLUB  GIRLS IN OUT LOOK TO SATURDAY DRESS INSIDE-OUT 1ne Hadfield, South Dakota centennial organizing committee is now seeking applicants for the position of underwear inventory manager. This is a paid position. Call Pat at 8936 between 1 a.m. and 4 a.m. for information. Go Maulers! Crush Leman and take the title!! Or Else!! Coach The General We were there. Where were you? Capt. Bligh and son New Jersey Club Meeting! Thurs., Oct. 11 at 7 p.m. In LaFortune Ballroom. All Jerseyans urged to attend. Kelly (Yes, YOU Foss) and Roxann (No E Brown), How's this???? Finally got you're names in print!!!! Guess who!!! Jenny, . You are allowed to get azero on the qu1z lln the day after yllur birthday. Emil T. Mademoiselle Cochoix?-(Co-shwa), Much Luck with the Tennis. You will be put in your place with my sport when you return. Sure will be lonely around here without a pool partner... Matt Cookie Monster, That fling with Kermit is over -I've always really been in love with you -Please call Miss Piggy.  Applications are now being accepted for the "Take Duke to the Alumni Hayride" contest. Some lucky lovely will get an evening of exotic excitement with the man they call KING -call soon and get on the list ­ask tor the Duke or any of his jesters. -1184 111' 112. 113, & 114. WILL YOU GO OUT WITH ME? #8 Sun, Moon. and the Stars, WILL YOU GO QUT WITH ME? Bubble GIVE VIKES A BREAK! GIVE VIKES A BREAK! HE TRIES. RUP. Student ticket available tor remaining home games. Janet -7434 CAMPUS KENNEDY '80 Meeting. 7 p.m. Thursday. Uttle Theatre, LaFor­tune. For Info, call Paul Lewis 8451 Monotheistic DOCTRINE ol Reincarna­tion in the Torah, the Prophets and the Gospels. Write: The Truth of Islam, P.O. Box 4494, South Bend, Indiana 46624. There is going to be definite "turtle action" on Saturday when Tim Griffin starts doing his shots!!! Attention all Montanans -We need to know who you are In order to get a club started -Please call 3701 and leave your name with Renee. P.S. Possible Parties In the Planning. WHAT THE HELL IS THIS STUFF??  

I : 

-

Thursday, October 11, 19 
All classified ads must be received by to the issue In which the ad Is run. Till classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00
Classifieds I classifieds must be pre-paid, either In person 

I need aride to New York area (preferably I'm driving all the way to Charlotte, N.C. One Student ticket for sale for USC game.Westchester) for October break. Will If any one needs a ride, call me -Kevin Best offer. Call Joe 6726.



Notices 
share driving and expenses. Please call 8661. 

Personals
Steve 1813.
Morrissey Loan Fund 

If you have a bright, enthusiastic voice, 
Pod,
Last day to apply for loans before Fall 

'Tickets

Need ride after USC to PA (Philadelphia and love to talk, we have a job for you. 
Thanks for sharino last Friday night-1break Is October 1B. $20 -$200. Due in 
area) or VA (Blacksburg area), will share Dress as you like. Day or eve. shifts think I'll keep himT
one month. ·, percent interest charge. Will sell USC student tix. Taking best
expenses and driving. Call Hannelore, part-time. Delivery help also needed. 
Anne

offer. Call Mary Ann 4-1-4347. Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 277-0296. 
7339. Apply 1n person weekdays ~2 pm, 1633 
Lincolnway S.B., Suite D. (Wooden Need United 50 percent discount tix. Indian off. plaza next to Holly's Landing). Wanted: 3 or 4 GA tickets to any home Hey Guys, 
Used Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. Mark 8773. football game. Will pay good money!! Today is Susie Kane's Birthday. Call 9-7. R~lph Casperson, 1303 Buchanan I need a ride to and from Philadelphia 41-5195. her at (SMC) 4796 to find out about Rd., Niles. 683-2888. Need ride to Philadelphia, New Jersey area over October break. Will help with collecting birthday kisses. area for October break. Will help pay for expenses and driving. Call Maryera Need B tix for So. Carolina. Call Mike or 
• Attention All Logan Volunteers • gas$. -Dan 1502. (SMC) 5157. Mark 289-6543. LeMans invites you to watch N D beat Air 
Force at Shakey's (on Edison) Sat. Oct. Howdy and how are ya'll doin'! Yup, it's Need ride to Twin Cities area, will share SEX-CRAZED LOVE GODDESSES can­Desperately need 5GA tix to Tennessee! 13, 11 a.m. All you can eat for only $2.50 time for our farm trip (yahoo!). It's off to expenses. CALL KEVIN K.-1194. not keep me in South Bend for October Call John at 3656. the farm tnis Saturday, Oct. 13 and we'll break! Please give me a ride to Atlanta. To the Graceful 9th, be gone from 9:00 to around 3:00. Come .HELP! Need ride after USC game to This includes those lucky people who Going home for October break? Sell your Surprise! Thanks for the "internation­dressed Iike a farmer and meet at Logan either Main, N.H., or Boston area. Call drive to Florida. I'll share driving and USC tix to 2 SMC ladies. We need 2 GA al" cruise and the cozy jeep ride. as usual. We'll get everyone in groups 3567, willing to share expenses -really expenses. Please call Scoo.p at 1771. tix and 2student tix. Willing to pay your Without you, life would be just another and be on our way to a fun-filled day at homesick' price. Call 4349 (SMC) Cathy or Leslie. rainy day. the farm! There will be plenty of animals Need ride to and from Mpls./St. Paul The Sleeping Beauties to see (pigs, horses, cows, rabbits, etc.), Ned ride to Philadelphia or Jersey at area. Leave Oct. 19 or 20. Please call USC -Yes, believe it or not I need 2 GA lots of land to roam around, all sorts of break.' Will share expenses and driving. Peggy at 282-2241 SOON!. USC tickets. However, I have lots of Happy Clogs ­
and singing ("Old MacDonald had Call Jim 1729. money foi them. Call Dave at 8782. I Hope your birthday is Great! Te next "),games to play, and a big picnic Needed for Thanksgiving break --one also need 1,3 or 4 Clemson tickets. Call pain au chocolat and grand (big) cafe 
to end the day! Do yourself a favor and Desperatejy need ride to Southern PA. United Airlines 50 percent coupon. Price Dave at 8782 or Bi II at 8444. creme is my treat. take abreak before the break, ya'll come [Harrisburg or nearby cities] tor break. negotiable. Call Rod 8333.. Done, Bon 20th and bring afew friends along, everyone's Will help with expenses. Jim 1688. Wanted: 2 or 4 GA tickets to South KHB welcome! Pray for that good weather and Need riders going to Buffalo for October Carolina. Call (SMC) 4166. come prepared for a rip-roarin', knee­Need ride to Tennessee Game Nov. 9. break. Leaving on Thursday, Oct. 18 Guys, slappin' time! Remember, don't ferget to Will share expenses. Call Mary Ann after 1 p.m. Call 4629. Can take two Need 2 GA tickets to Navy game. Call Yes, it's the wild and wonderful 
dress like a farmer and we'll see ya'll on 4-1-4347. riders. Pete 289-9351. WINIFRED FITZGERALD'S 18th Saturday. Bowling as always on Fridays, BIRTHDAY on Sunday! meet at the Library Circle at 3:15, St. I'm homesick for the land of 10,000 lakes! Desperate need ride to BuffaiJI or Wanted two GA tickets USC. Will pay Call 7445; send GIFTS to 328 Lewis 
Mary's meet at Holy Cross at 3:30. For Need ride to Minnesota for Oct. break. Rochester, N.Y. for October break. Call 100.00 for good seats (312) 823-1158 any rumors or stories call Walter 3066 or Will share expenses and driving. Call Paul at 1038. mornings. Teeth and Panharolle Ed at 3479. Zelda Ray at 8135. I will accept payment for Fridays deed Going to or near Pittsburgh over break? I need 2So. Carolina GA tix. Call Pam ar on delivery Desperately need 1 American Airlines I'll share expenses. Prefer to leave before #1257. . Bird 112 price coupon. Will pay any USC game. Call Matt 234-5284.

Lost&Found 
reasonable price or trade 'Student USC Top Dollar for South Carolina GA's. Call Linvile: ticket as part of deal. Call Tom 8407. Two SMC girls need ride to Wash., D.C., Tom 1610. What's short, round, has kinky hair, and 
LOST: key ring with room and mail key 
area for Oct. break-will share expenses. a former coworker? 
and whistle 10/5. If found, return to 
Need ride to TWIN CITIES after USC Call Betsy 5129, Mary 4954. Will pay $200.00 for 4 GA tix to USC Ans: You'll find out Friday Night.
Observer office. 
game. Will share driving and expenses game. Call 233-5538. Tom 1247. Florida • 1-75 Riders needed October Hey Devine,
LOST-Seiko watch, with day and date, 
break. Call 3659 or 1271. Help! -Parents need 2 GA tickets for I hope you're looking forward to your trip
silver snap wristband. -Reward. Call Bill 
I LOVE NOTRE DAME, and would rather Southern Cal. Call 272-4478 after 5:15. to Europe Friday. Maybe you'll run into 6756. 
not spend winter in JERSEY. Need ride Omaha-Need ride there after USC game turbulance in your delux seat. back to campus after break. I'II share gas -call Colin 8736. Need 4 GA tickets to any home game.
Found: Mailbox key in Green Field. Call 
and tolls. Mary 6959. Call Mark at 3647. There was an AQ named Lew 6944 to identify. 
I want to go home for NO-Tennessee! Her horse friends she had but a few• Landscaping work. Need someone with Need as many tickets as possible! Please Navy, Need Student and/or GA Navy Tix, Citing Shakespeare she's great
Lost: Jacket (navy boxing) -with name 
own transportation and 1Q-12 hours help! Mary Lynn 4747 (SMC). Call Paul 263-6313. Happy 20th Kate! 
inside-at Senior Bar on Thurs. PM, Oct. 
available this week for $4.00/hr. Call All we need is a Bourn and some brew!
4. Call Rocky at 232-o736. 
272-8857. Need ride to Philadelphia area for I need 2 GA tickets for South Carolina. ·"WHAT this summer?" October break. Mary Beth 5732 (SMC) Please call Greg 6726. · • -the equestnenne rides again
LOST: Coloarado Driver's license, Friday DESPERATELY NEED ride to NYC, NJ,
nile. If found, please call7753-can't get 
CT. area for break. PLEASE call (SMC) Need aride to College Park, Md. area for Need many GA and Reserved tickets for Kathy Lew enters adulthood today. Light
~nC'ther one in Indiana. 
5137. Oct. break. Willing to share expenses. Navy. Bi II 8891 . a match in her honor. Please help. Call Cathy (SMC) 4349. 

afternoon from outside Huddle. Answers  
to name "Hero." $25 reward for recov­ 
ery. Mlco 256-5879. Found -r;Jt;PY at Notre Dame Ave. and  
Corby. ite with brown markings on  
back, ears, and around left eye. Call  
234-7220. Whoever stole my brown backpack from  
SMC science building, ~ive it back. I  
don 'I care who you are. lease return all  
those things that are useless to you. Call  
Lisa Harless 234-7389. LOST: one navy blue sweater with keys  
and I.D. in the pocket at Guiseppe's  
Friday night. REWARD OFFERED. Call  
4629.  
For Rent  
Uve Oct. Free  
For Rent: Campus View apt. for rent with  
three male students. $100/month. All  
utilities included. Call Brian 277-5072. Room w/ kitchen privileges $75-100. Call  
Mrs. Bakuse 232-3477. Lincoinway West  
and Harrison.  
MTanted  
2 B-P co-eds living on a shoestring desire  
a small refrigerator. Call Anne or  
Jana--1261. Need ride to Cincy Oct. 12. Cail4-1-4220. Wanted -Wanted  
28 USC tix. I'm paying the price you'll  
like. Will be in town Thursday PM (Oct.  
11) at Quality Inn. Ask for Bill Dandridge. Need riders to Minneapolis. Leaving  
Friday 1Q-12 a.m. Caj! Dian 7906 and  
Michele 7953. Wanted--HERBIE'S DELl NEEDS DRI­ 
VER for campus route 12-15 hrs./wk.  
Good pay. Must have own transportation.  
234-6519. Need ride for two to CT., NYC area for  I  
break. Will share expenses. Julie 4527. Need ride to Central New Jersey or  
vicinity for October break. Will share  
expenses. Hank 8181. Need aride to Twin Cities Area for break.  
Will share $. Mark 8341. Dyinj. Mom wants to see Son. Need ride  
to N -NY for break. Call Mike-1824.  

i~~~ White Samoyed puppy on Friday ­
Need Ride to Albany, N.Y. after USC. This is Kate Kilkuskie's second personal
Desperately need 2 GA USC tixs. Call

Call Kathy 6954. · Need ride from Ft. Lauderdale Oct. of the year. All you girls who have yet to
Michelle at 4269. 

break. Please call 4-1-4634. receive one can now be extra jealous of 'Need ride to Detroit area for 2on Friday, her.
For Sale: The remainder of football ticket 

Oct. 12. Will share driving and expenses. Part time waitresses needed. Gropp's Ryan
pack. Call 277-5072. 

Call 1277 or 6354. Fish or Stroh. 52129 U.S. 31 N. Phone: P.S. Maybe her next one will be from a 277-0103. real slugger.
Parents need two GA's for South 

Need ride to Springfield, Mass. for Oct. 
Carolina. Please call Jim 1692.

Attention-anyone going home before the
break. Please call Alicia (SMC) -4812. Gus,
USC game-I need 1 student ticket -Call 
As usual I'm a little late but here's your
John 1209. 2 South Carolina GA tickets could make
I need a ride to anywhere near own personal personal. Chser up, you're
you rich. Call Rick at 8739. 

Poughkeepsie, N.Y. or Danbury, Conn. still the Sexiest Senior on campus!
Help! Need 2 USC tix. Sheila 7924.
forGet. break. Will share driving and An admirer from SMC
KANSAS TICKETS. For sale. Great expenses. Please call 3501. 

seats. Call Ron 4614. 

Greg and Rich, OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year round. It was really good to see you guys Sun

For Sale 
Wanted -Wanted! 28 USC tickets. I'm

Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc. nile! Despite a busy schedule I will
paying the price you'll like. Will be in

All Fields, $50D-$1 ,200 monthly. definitely try to heep in touch. Hi to all of
For Sale: USC tix. Dave 1222. town tonight (Oct.11) at Quality Inn. Ask
Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free info­9-D.
for Bill Dandridge.

Write: IJC, Box 52-14, Corona Del Mar, Love, Margie
For Sale-USC two GA's, 3 student tix.
Ca. 92625. 

Charlie 8168. II Papa returns for the USC game needing GIRLS: HANDYMAN UNLIMITED wantsthree GA tix, anywhere. Money is
Need ride for two to Northern NJ for you Inside Out, or wants outside in.
'77 Pontiac Ventura, 4 door, V-6, Auto­obviously no object. Call 288-2484.
October break. Steve 1432. 
matic, excellent condition. Call Ed Ulicny 
Chris R.
8000, after 5:30. Call 277-0526.
Colonial Caterers at Century Center Need GA Navy tickets 4-1-4375. Happy 20th Birthday. needs part time bartenders, busboys, Love, Laura and Lisa
Student USC and S. Carolina tickets for
cashiers, waiters, waitresses and kitchen Help-I need two USC -GA tix to USC
sale. Best offer. 4-1-5165.
personnel. Breakfast and Luncheon help game. Call Laurie 4762 (SMC). Dan-need most. Apply inkitchen across from Hi There!! Have a nice day. Here's to
United Airlines 50 percent off d1scount
entrance 4 in rear of Century Center. another personal and to the weekend
coupons. 233-8855. Wanted 6tickets each, Southern Cal and 
M.E.O.T.O.
Georgia Tech. Call Steve Hamilton-(712)

Need ride to Chicago (O'Hare) any time 
732-2842 days. (712) 732-5229 nights.

1 GA USC ticket for sale. Jim 232-4719.
after USC game on Oct. 20. Will pay ALL Ms. Christman,tolls. Rod x8333. 
Either I get USC tickets or I get Need USC tickets. Will pay $90 or more a Have a good day! disemboweled! You may think I am nuts, pair. #1756.
Help. Need one or two rides to St. 
Sue M.,
but I won't be if I don't get some GA's
Bonaventure for October break. Call 
for Oct. 20th!! Considering the potential I'd like to apologize for having done
Jean at 8075. Need Southern Cal tickets. Will pay top 
anything to offend you.
consequences, money is beside the 
dollar.. Call Joe after 10. 233-6024. 

· Steve
point!l Call Terri--8211.
Need rides for two people to Chicago Friday, October 12 or the following Need GA tickets for Southern Cai game.
I need 2 GA 's to the Navy game . I need Hello A-L-1-S-H, no it's A-L-1-C-1-A,
morning. Will share expenses. Call Will pay big bucks. Call Jane 283-8012.
to know early -call 1209.
Larry -1049. 

EAT LUNCH AT THE SENIOR BAR*
Help! I'm frantic-need Btickets for So.

Need several GA tickets for Clemson, FRIDAY 11:30 • 2:00, FEATURING
The Blue Line Club is looking for a sort of Cal game. Please call Katie at 7911.
Tennessee ~ames. Call 1771. You name HAMBURGERS* HOTDOGS* BE!:R
San Diego Padres KGB Chicken for home 
the price, I II pay if right. AND OTHER REFRESHMENTShockey games this year. Applicants must S.O.S. EMERGENCY need 2 to 5
be uninhibited, loud-mouthed and able to 
Used 13" Auto tires on rims. Cheap. Southern Cal tickets. Good Money! Callentertain large crowds. This is a paid Also snow tires..8900 or 4349. Joan 11280. Girls, Marshall Matt will be out at theposition. For a tryout call Ric Schafer at bars Thursday night (no B-law this
232-1 858 or Brian at 1740. 
For Sale: Ladies suede jacket, fur lining, Grandparents last pilgrimmage to the Friday) so check it out! Joe Philbin Size 9/11. Call D.J. 3445. Dome. Need Southern Cal tickets badly. should be close at hand, also. Don't let
Need rider or ride to Manchester College 
Call Kevin 3528. these two eligible males go unmolested!
on Sunday October 13. Call Beth 
For Sale: '64 Falcon. Good running
4-1-5710. 

condition. Michael 288-2095. Beth,
Need 2 GA tickets ·for South Carolina. 

Ronald Reagan is undeniably 68 years
Need ride to Dayton area on October 1Bth Bill-287-4823.
Get your Irish flag for USC weekend. For old! Good luck on your tests.
or 19th. Call Kate 4-1-5220. 
info call (SMC) 5137. John
Will trade American Airlines Half price Need ride to Memphis, TN. for October coupon and or cash for (1) one USC GA .
Sansui BOBODB receivers 85 watts RMS Birdman--Is it true about the tapeworm?
break. Willing to share expenses. Call Don 8762. 
per channel exc. condition. $300. Call
Veronica 1311. 

Bobby 233-3380 after 3:00 p.m. Hi Lush--yes you Louise Walsh.
Need ride to Buffalo for break. Please 
Help! I need 5 student and/or GA tix to
call Lisa 8144. 

By alumnus -2 Bedroom house 1136 E. USC. Call Flo 7922 or Jayne 1669. Dave Rumbach, Sarin (near Corby's) Drive by, call Jim Meet me at our usual spot Friday night.
Need ride to Rochester, N.Y. for October 
Licata, Room 229 Morris Inn until Sat. Need 2-4 South Carolina tickets -G.A. Billbreak! Please call Jan 8144. 
after Sat. 312-472-o879. Make offer. Call1895. 
Thursday, October 11, 1979-page 12

Pictured above are the men 's interha/1 , who claimed the title Sunday by eating Fozz~·e 's .Bears, 18-6. The tournament consisted ofp teams playing five rounds 
o szngle elzmznatt?n softball. Members of the teC!m are _[zn alphabetical order[: Mark~arney, Tracey Fznn, Mark Flaherty, Bnan Hanzsan, Tzm KOch, Dan McKay, Mike Mitchell, john Onufer, Chn's Policinsik, George f.}uz/1, jeff Stahl, Pete Sullivan, john Sweisthal, and Craig Zebold. [photo by Tim McKeogh]. · 

Saint Mary's splits with Tri-State 
by Kate Huffman Sports Wn'ter 
The Saint Mary's College vol­leyball team split a triangular meet with Tri-State and Man­chester at North Manchester last Tuesday. With the split the Belles increased their season record to 3-5. 
In the first match, Saint Mary's scored its second victor­y of the year in as many outings against Tri-State by game scores of 15-12 and 15-11. 
"I was very happy with the team spirit and communication, they played very ag~ressively. Although our passmg was a little weak, our spiking and serving were very strong,'' said c~ach Erin Murphy after the 
WIO. 
Murphy commended Amy Terry for her performance in the match agamst Tri-State. She continued her streak of impressive spiking with 66 per­cent kills on spike attempts. 
In the second match of the evening, the Belles met a tough team from Manchester College. After losing the first game 7-l 5 to Manchester, the ~elles came out strong in the second game and took an early 8-0 lead. But, Manchester soon began to pick away at the lead the Belles had attamed. The Manchester team eventually/ulled ahead ofSaint Mary's an took the game, and the match 15-13. 

"I feel Manchester was one of the strongest if not the strong­est team we've faced so far. The girls really dido' t know what to expect," Murphy com­mented. "I was pleased with the way we played. The loss to Manchester will help the ~iris develop mental tou~hness. ' 
On Saturday begtnning at 9 a.m., the Belles will host the second annual Saint Mary's College Volleyball Invitational at Angela Athletic Facility. Nine teams, including Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, will participate in the round robin 2-pool tournament. Each team will play all of the teams in their 

Belles tie Valparaiso 
by Theresa Hickman Sports Writer 
St. Mary's Belles field hockey team battled to a 1-1 decision against Valparaiso in an away contest on Tuesday afternoon. 
The scorer of the afternoon for the Belles was freshman Lisa Keeley with her goal coming at the beginning of the second half.St. Mary's was ahead until the tail end of the game when 
Valparaiso  scored  from  the  
corner to tie the match.  
Coach  Ann  Diede  felt  that  

Tuesday's match was "equally 
distributed" as well as "a wide open game. 
Diede also spoke of her team's , good passing and the ability to work together. First-year center halfback Nancy Loren­zini was one of the player's that contributed to the team's fine play on Tuesday. "There are a lot of first year players and the team is just starting to jell,'' stated Diede. 

The St. Mary's field hockey team will close their season this weekend with a tournement at Franklin College. The final games will be played against Bearea and Center College from Kentucky. 
Walk-Ons to tryout 
Notre Dame students interes­ted in trying out for the Irish basketball team as a walk-on must attend a tryout session this Monday, October 15, at 
7:30 p.m. Walk-ons should report to the basketball arena of the Athletic and Convocation Center before the 7:30 sesston begins. 
respective poot once. The two teams with the best record in each pool will advance to the single elimination semi-finals, whtch will begin at 5 p.m. The finals begin at 6:30p.m. The coaches of the participating teams will be choosing an all tournament team from among the participating players. 

First-inning outburst lifts Birds over Bucs 
BALTIMORE (AP)-Doug DeCinces smashed a two-run homer, capping a five-run Balt­imore upnsing in the first inning, and the Orioles went on to defeat the Pittsburgh Pirates 5-4 in the once-postponed open­ing game of the 1979 World Series Wednesday Night. 
The Orioles' bats cooled after the early barrage, but they took advantage of some shabby Pir­ates fielding to build the big­gest first inning in any qpening game in the 76-year history of the Series, which was moved back one day by rain on Tuesday. · 
Twice Pittsbursh could have escaped the innmg on double play balls, but both times the Pirates failed to turn the play. Eventually, they paid the pnce on this frigid, damp night. 
Mike Flanagan, the major leagues' winningest pitcher with 23 victories during the regular season, rode the early edge to victory, holding off the Pirates, who built their at­tempted comeback around a record-tying Series four hits by big Dave Parker, and a key error by De Cinces, the first­inning hero. 
An eighth-inning home run by first baseman Willie Stargell brought the Pirates within one run. Flanagan survived a tough sixth inning that saw two Pittsburgh runs score with the help of errors by DeCinces·. Stargell also figured in the Pirates' first run in the fourth inning with a run-producing grounder. 
The Orioles started fast with 

leadoff man AI Bumbry dump­
ing a first-pitch single to left 
field against Pittsburgh starter 
Bruce Kison. Mark Belanger, 
who batted only .187 during the 
regular season, walked on four 
pitches. With Baltimore's 
power coming up, Kison was in 
trouble. 
He almost escaped by getting Ken Singleton to hit a come­backer, but in his anxiety to turn the double play, Kison bobbled the ball and had· to settle for getting the batter at first. Bumbry and Belanger advanced to second and third. 
Pittsburgh played its infield back, except at third base, hopping to choke off the big inning. And after cleanup man Eddie Murray walked on a 3-1 pitch, the strategy very nearly worked. 
] ohn Lowenstein ripped a perfect double play ball to second baseman Phil Garner. But Garner had trouble getting the baJl out of his glove, then threw it far over shortstop Tim Foli's head for an error. 
Two runs score on the play, and Murray wound up at third. Lowesntein almost reached second but changed his mind halfway down the base line, retreating to first, as Foli fumbled the relay and was unable to make a play. 
Rattled by the error, Kison then unloaded a wild pitch, allowing Murray to score the third run of the inning. The wild pitch came on Kison' s 
[continued on page 9] 

Old heroes never die 


Theyjust change uniforms 
As he glanced to his right, he noticed the brillance of the Golden Dome. Yes, the statue of the Blessed Virgin was still there. . ..Send a volley cheer on high ... And oh yes, he'd tasted dining hall food, lived here in the 'Era of Ara' ' and upped a few at Corby's . ...Shake down the thunder from the sky ... Yes, it was all just as he left it. And now, he was back, on the other side. 
Would it be difficult to picture Vagas Ferguson in a Southern Cal uniform? God forbid! Or how about"Tree"Woolridge slam dunking it for U.C.L.A.? Makes you feel funny inside? 
Well, this past Saturday at Stepan Field, something similar took place. A star at Notre Dame in his respective club sport for six years, with 12 seasons of bleeding Notre Dame Irish blood. And now, as fate would have it, he was back a~ain, wearing the blue uniform on die other stde. 
The sport is rugby. The man is Bob 'Bobo' Olsen, 1974 Notre Dame alumnus, who is now captain of the South Bend Rugby Club. On Saturday morning, the townies, as they have been derogatorily referred to in campus circles, proved they can indeed serum with anyone. All they did was come to Notre Dame and run their record to 5-0 in capturing a 15-4 A-team victory, taking a page out of the "Breaking Away" movie script along the way. 
"I never thought I'd ever play against Notre Dame," said Olsen, who now works for IBM in South Bend after receiving his MBA from here in 1977. "I was so intense about Notre Dame Rugby when I was here. I used to see guys come back and play for other teams after going here and I never say how they could do it!" 
Olsen's enthusiasm for rugby, however, could not be curtailed. Upon graduation in 1977, he joined the South Bend Rugby Club, a team that had severed the Irish from their schedule because of bad blood between the two clubs. 
"Notre Dame had shellacked us 40-0 in 1975 and you could hear people making crude . remarks on the sidelines about how we should 
Mike 
Previte 


learn how to play rugby," said Shawn Donlon, a South Bend Rugger since that 1975 season, who scored a try in the first half Saturday. And learn they did. Picking up such players as Chet Zawalich, three-time Bengal Bouts champ and a former rugger at Notre Dame, the South Benders turned things around this season chalking up wins over Lincoln Park (Chicago), Gary, Indiana, Circle City and the Indy Reds. 
The game this weekend, however, was unusually clean, yet hard-fought (as evidenced by a broken hand and dislocated shoulder suffered by the South Bend side.)-Trys by Donlon, Phil Colburn and Doherty gave the Benders an early lead. ''It was rugby at its best," said Olsen. "The Irish were the fastest team we've faced all season. We just had the breaks go our way." 
And that they did. Despite a first half try by Matt O'Brien of Notre Dame, the visitors just managed to keep a dive by ] im Bowers and a corner attempt by O'Brien from touching the ground in the goal area as the game ended with no further scoring. "It was good for morale," chided Olsen, whose brother Tom, a senior, notched a try in an 18-0 Irish B-team victory. "We were glad they rescheduled us. They're a great bunch of guys and we enjoyed playing them." 
Notre Dame's ntw." crop of ru~gers were unaware of the ill-will felt from earlier rivalries so the game featured pure, unadulterated rugby. "We'll be at their game Saturday rooting them home against Xavier,'' smiled Donlon. Something tells this writer that Olsen would approve....And our hearts forever, love thee Notre Dame ... . 



