
~------~.----------.------~--------------------~----~-----------------------------------­-
, , , Sports trivia -page 8 

VOL XIII, NO. 78 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1979 
Donahue entertains overflowring crowrd 
by Mark Rust can't expect them (the Univer­Senior StaffReporter sity) to call a press conference and say that they are now going An overflow crowd of approxi­to run this place like Ohio State." mately 1100 last night heard He said that he was "in favor syndicated talk show host Phil of co-ed dorms.. .for everyone Donahue, a Notre-Dame gradu­except my daughter." Donahue ate, discuss an assortment of appeared to play down a com­concerns ranging from feminism ment he was alleged to have to campus issues in a r;wo hour made during a recent show talk in Washington Hall. favoring "the healthiness of 
Donahue was interrupted co-ed dorms." throughout his speech by the In response to a question about applause of a standing room only the "fairness" of an off-campus crowd that did nor appear to thin lottery, Donahue reflected that out until the closing minutes of when he was a student (in the the talk. mid-fifties) "living off-campus 
Donahue reserved the largest was the thing to ~o. You could part of his allotted time for a have a car and a six-pack of beer. spirited question and answer Today," he continued, "I under­session, during which students stand that it is not the amuse­asked him to respond to such ment park it once was." current campus topics as pari­An interviewer celebrated by etals, sexual attitudes and "in TV critics for his outspokeness on loco parentis." controversial issues, Donahue 
Donahue dismissed the subject did not lack for pithy aphorisms. of in loco parentis as a reflection Of the church hterarchy Donahue of ' 'a paternalistic attitude that is said "I think a lot of what the very much a part of the Catholic Church does today is unfair to decision making hierarchy." God,'' and on the financial 
Many questions dealt with an mismanagment of Cleveland, his interview that Donahue will con­hometown, Donahue observed duct in his Chicago studio today that ' 'a lot of insecure macho­with University President Theo­men are runnin~ around spread­dore Hesburgh. ing a lot of bull, ' that does them 
The Donahue talk was "absolutely no ~ood." attended by many members of When questtoned about his the HPC. They cut their weekly divorce and his relationship with meeting short last night to send actress Marlo Thomas, Donahue, Hesburgh a message through who said that he is "not a Donahue. Ellen Dorney, Badin practicing Catholic," grew reflec­Hall president and HPC member, tive. "The (church) annullment asked Donahue to express to proceedings were a burden. I've 
l-lesburgh student concerns that thought about it since then and Last night, Mr. PhzJ Donahue spoke to an overflowing crowd concerning various topics
"the University has no feeling for [Continued on page 4] ranging from Catholicism to parietals. [Photo by Mark Muench]
the students.'' 
After three more pleas posed in a similar vein by students, Donahue responded that "I can't make this a get Hesburgh' 
Coordinator Flynn terms exchange 'a success' 
day. " In response to similar concems by Ann Hesburgh coordinator Norman Flynn at included sightseeing of historic 
A mass honoring the Notre
expressed by members of the both the Brunswick Pub and Toronto, a luncheon at City Hall, Dame students was held at 8
audience over parietals, co-ed The Notre Dame Toronto Ex­Musical Jam Party that was held and a tour of Queen's Park,dorms and the off campus lottery, change was officially proclaimed Sunday hight in the library of the which included a talk given by p.m. Sunday, and was well that a co-attended the
Donahue concluded ''you success by Toronto's South House, a student dormi­Alderman Gilbert and· tours of by students from tory. ' 'This is the best exchnage both the Parliament Buildings both universities. The mass that we have ever experienced,'' and the Provincial Legislative ended with a talk given by Fr. said Norman. '''The Notre Dame Chambers. Robbins, the celebrant. people are just great." 
Following the mass, students

HPC discusses rights 
Two social activities maintain­
Four bus loads of Notre Dame 
from Toronto as well as Notreed the spirit of the day. The first 
students entered the beautiful
by Aileen Lavin Dame displayed their musical
of these team activities was a
StaffReporter city of Toronto at 5:45 Friday talents in a jam session that was
"boat racing" contest that took
evening. After a short accidental 
held in the library of the Southplace at the Brunswick Pub
The HPC met with members of Carroll Hall last night to discuss tour of downtown, the students House. Mter the session,
between four members from each 
the possibilities offighting for student's rights through the issue of arrived at the University of students agains danced and
school. Much to Notre Dame's
Toronto, where they unloaded
panetals. • socialized until the early morning 
dismay, both the women's and
"We picked parietals because it was an issue that affected their luggage, met their hosts for hours.
men's teams .were overcome byeverybody,'' explained Tim Coonan, a representative from Carroll the weekend, and attended a The students were free to do as
Hall. pre-arranged dinner that was the Canadians. 
they pleased Monday. Some''The idea was to get other halls to do something · it was up to served in the Great Hall of the The second team activity was chose to attend university classes them to make their own choice," Coonan continued. Hart House. 
the Pub Crawl. Co-ed team with their hosts, while othersAndy Herring, representing Student Government, was also in The activities that began members from both the Univer­made a last attempt to see asattendance to issue a memo announcing a campus-wide meeting in Friday night did not end until sities ofToronto and Notre Dame much ofthe city as possible in the LaFortune Ballroom, Monday, February 12 at 6:00p.m. "in order Monday afternoon. Friday after were given a map and five and a time that remained. 
to assess the campus-wide support for this movement.'' Students dinner, the Notre Dame students half hours to visit 16 pubswill be asked to stgn a paper committing themselves to support a and their hosts attended a "get Tom Taese, who worked on the
throughout the city. At each pub, 
proposal to extend parietals. . acquainted" party that was held partictpants collected paraphen­exchange committee, credited Some members of HPC questioned the purpose of such a at the Vic Pub on campus and alia to prove that in fact all 16 the success of the pro~ram ro the meeting and the extent to which it would be influential in which lasted until 1:00 a.m. exchange chairmen. 'The value::
bars were visited. The winners of 
promoung the movemem for student's rights. There the students were able to of this trip and its lasting
this contest were the Manitoba 
The debate ended with HPC chairman, Chuck DelGrande, dance and met all those involved Flying Beavers. memories can to a large extent be proposing a meeting between Student Government and HPC in the exchange. attributed to the very hard work members to ensure the student body of a unified, concrete Saturday's schedule was one of Robert S. Bothwell discussed of both Chuck DelGrande and movement towards the issue of students rights. the busiest, as the day's activities Canadian-American Relations Norman Flynn," he said. "Heart 
The Toronto student exchange program which took place last began at 10 a.m. with tours of the Sunday. The day also included filled thanks of appreciation for weekend was also discussed at the meeting. There was an CN (Canadian National) Tower, spons activities such as water the exchange go out LO rhese overwhelming positive response to the weekend and hopes were. the tallest free-standing structure polo, swimming, basketball, and chairmen and our wonderful 
[Continued on page 3] in the world. Other activities volleyball. hosts in Toronto." 

News in brief 
Court orders cultist to stand trial for murder 

GEORGETOWN, Guyana [AP]-Stephan Jones, 19, son of the 
Rev. JimJones, walked out ofa counroom yesterday a free man, 
but fellow Peoples Temple cultist Charles Beikman was ordered 
to stand trial for murder in April. Beikman, 42, will be tried for 
the throat-slashing death ofSharon Amos, a top aide to Jones. 
She and her three children died in the Temple's headquarters 
here last Nov. 18 the same day that more than 900 other cultists 
died in a mass murder-suicide in the Temple settlement of 
Jonestown. Mter Magistrate Prem Persaud read his ruling, 
Beikman grabbed Jones by the hand and elbow and . 
congratulated him on his release. Beikman was not charged 
with the deaths of the three children, but under Guyanese law 
he could be later. At the conclusion of the preliminary inquiry 
last week, defense lawyers argued that there was no case 
against either Jones or Beikman. 
Butz blasts farmers for Washington protest 

TOPEKA, Kan. [AP] -Former U.S. Agriculture Secretary Eafl Butz said yesterday that the farmers demonstratmg m Washington have so turned off the American people that their effort is now' 'strictly counter-productive.'' ''When you see the television shot of some fellow driving a $50,000 tractor down Pennsylvania Avenue, or blocking traffic, it doesn't im_eress the taxicab driver, or the government clerk, or the housewife, '' said Butz, who was in Topeka to address a dinner meetin~ of the Knife and Fork Oub. "I'm in sympathy with their QbJectives, and I'm sure Secretary (Bob) Bergland is too. But he can't countenance their methods, and neither can I. It's very unfortunate, and it's very countel'{>roductive for them at this point.'' He said the American Agnculture movement served a very useful purpose a year ago in calling the people's and ~overnment's attention to farmers' economic problems. "But tt' s got to the point where it's strictly counterproductive." 

Weather 

Partly cloudy today with highs in the low 20s. Partly cloudy and cold tonight with a chance of flurries. Cloudy tomorrow with temperatures in the mid-teens, with a 20 percent chance of snow for tomorrow night. 
10:10 am--LECTURE, "financial controls in a multi-national corporation," frank t. alfieri, senior v.p., clark equipment company, HAYES-HEALY AUD., sponsored by fmance club 
11:15 am--LECTURE, "mountain states fmancial, an intermed­iate size company facing economic growth constraints of '79 and growth," frank potenztani, director mountain states financial corporation, HAYES-HEALY AUD., sponsored by fmance club 

2:20 pm--LECI1JRE, "the human equation in mergers and acquisitions," william j. hank, chairman of the board, colon-moore corporation, HAYES-HEALY AUD., sponsored by finance club 
4 pm--DISCUSSION, choosing a major program, "a major decision," STAPELTON LOUNGE 
5:15pm--FASTER'S MASS,WALSH CHAPEL, sponsored by worlcf hunger coalition 
. 

6_piJ1--Dinner and Discussion with Fr. Leo Mahon., LEWIS HALL BASEMENT, sponsored by cila 
7 pm--SPEAKER, vilma s. ~inez, president and ge~eral council of maldef (mexican-amencan legal defense educattonal fund), LAW SCHOOL room 105 
7 pm--LECTURE, "an informal discussi~n on ~eers with chemical bank," william h. darrow, v.p. chermcal bank, HAYES-HEALY AUD., sponsored by fmance club 
6 pm--MEETING, college bowl entrants, 1st floor LAFORTIJNE 
7 pm--WORKSHOP, interviewing skills, EXECUTIVE BOARD ROOM, LEMANS HALL 
8:15pm--CONCERT, lisa mahoney, flute, liBRARY AUD. 

9 pm--MEETING, men's racquetball dub--organizational meet­ing, GRACE HALL PIT 
10 pm--MEETING, philosophy club discusses, "the private public distinction language distinction," MAIN FLOOR* LAFORTIJNE 
12:15 am--WSND--FM, nocturne nightflight, hosted by renee reder, 89fm 
Wednesday, February 7, 1979 -page 2 
Now collectors items 


Police keep watch on signs 
SAliSBURY, Rhodesia [AP] ­
Police are watching street si~s bearing names of Rhodesian pioneers lest they be lifted as souvenirs. And flags, old books, anniversary beer mugs, stamps, medals, coms -evenT-shins-are bringing big prices. 
With RhOdesia's white colonial history fast fading, its relics are suddenly collectors' items. 
A Salisbury businessman re­cently went to court to force the r~gistrar-ger:'eral to. supply _him wtth 100 coptes ofPnme Minister Ian Smith's marriage certificate and the records of other promin­ent Rhodesian whites. 
John R. Lentell told the court he wanted the documents as "speculative investments" since he believed the political situation -in which the black majority is expected to take over the reins of government in April elections ­placed a collector's value on them. 
A related demand has devel­oped for souvenirs of the colonial life-style and the vicious bush war, with shops peddling prod­ucts ranging from zebra-banded bush hats to pens and bottle openers fashioned from spent cartridge shells. 
The buyers include white Rhodesians hankerin_g for a tangible piece of a land and life they may soon have to abandon, speculators hoping to cash in on what they see as future collec­tors' items, and foreign tourists simply succumbing to a morbid desrre for a chunk ofa world they believe may soon be swallowed up in civil and racial war. 
Among the t.urrent bestsellers: 
-Full-stze, official Rhodesian flags -the country's ~ set in green and white -are sold out, ~d shops report long waiting lists of customers who have already paid up to $45. 
-Beer mugs with Ian Smith's portrait and quotes from his 1965 unilateral declaration of inde­pendence from Britain, put out on the lOth anniversary of teh declaration, cost $3.50 a year ago. The few remaining ones go for 10 times that. 
Soph. workers to gather 
There will be a meeting tonight at 
6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Rathskellar fo all those soph­mores interested in dealing at the 
sopliomoreclass Mardi Gras booth 
-A book of reprints from the Rhodesia Herald newspaper trac· ing Rhodesian history, "The Valiant Years," is almost sold out. 
FThe Observer 
Night Editor: Fraf~R Kebe,
Jr. 
Asst. Night Editor: Jim RJvJd Spo~ Layo~t: Greg Solman Typtsts: Tnsh, Nancy, Betz and Katie 
Night Controller: Mardi Day Editor: Dan Letcher Copy Readers: Michaels Shields and Onufrak Ad Layout: ? Photographer: Mark Muench 
The Observer 1USPS 598 920} is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Oarne and Saint Mary"s College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year j$10 per semester) from The Observer. P.O. box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. In­diana 46556. 
The 0bserver is a member of the 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 



LEE'S 
is holding a BENEFIT PARTY TONIGHT fot Joe Camarda 
(I) 

(o~~-<:ampus assault v1ct1m)
..
..... 

to help deftay hospital bills
.....
.... 


ALL PROCEEDS!! . will be donated 

r
$1.60 PitcheRS $1 at the OOOR all ntGht!! n.O.-n.c. ~at€ qam€ (BRinG J.O.'s) 
Will B€ on COLOR t.V. 
I 

.........__5--t-·2_m_•_o____LE E'S _a~._so_=_R_ar_r_te_s,_P_R_•z_es., 
LAST CHANCE Course 

Registration 
Hurry! 
Time is running out. 
t . 
You have until 4:00pm. 


Sponsoted by N.D. Student Union and St. ffiaty' s Student Govt. 


The Observer Wednesday, February 7, 1979 -page 3 

Brother Leo Ryan spoke last night in Howard Hall. Ryan led'a lecture-discussion on "Careers in Business." [Photo' by Mark 


SMC charity natnes Saint ~Jude as project 
by FJ/en Buddy Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Jude Children's Research Hospital is Saint Mary's campus wide charity pro­ject for this year, according to Development Commissioner Mary Mullaney. The Board of Governance selected the hospital as the beneficiary of the annual charity drive in a vote last October_ The theme for this year's project is " ... For the Children." 
''Everyone was really excited. We hope to build it up and keep it a future project, much like the United Way Campaign," Mulla­ney said. 
Appeals for donations through activities were issued to all the classes and halls. Augusta Hall held the kick-off event in Janu­ary, a New Year's party. 
Events in the near future include an ice skating party,· sponsored by the Junior class, to be held Feb. 20. ''We are encouraging participation to the utmost because it is a chance to reach out and do something for the children," commented Elaine Belle, Junior class vice-presi­dent. 
Aoother main event will be the Charity Ball, sponsored by the Senior class Feb. 22. The Freshman class, in conjunction with the Co-Ex Commission and Public Relations Commission, will host a campus-wide barbecue in late April 
The final event will be a talent show sponsored by the Sopho­more class. The show is sche­
... HPC 

[Continuedfrom page I] expressed that Notre Dame weuld be as successful at hosting as Toronto was. "It was a tremendous success; we were received incredibly well," emphasized DelGrande, a participant in the program. He continued, "We will work as hard as possible to come up with a vanety of even~ to really show what ND is.'' The meeting was adjourned early so HPC members could attend the Phil Donahue lecture. HPC members hoped to convince Donahue to question University president Father Theodore Hesburgh on the parietals issue. 
duled for April 24, and tryouts will be open to both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
Each hall is also contributing to the charity project. LeMans and McCandless are joining forces to hold various sales durmg March and April. Holy Cross intends to host a Happy Hour March 9 and Regina is planning a hall talent show for Feb. 23. Details concerning hall and class events will be released as the dates for each event draw near. 
Rental fees, food and bever­ages will be donated to the halls and classes for their projeats by cooperating businesses. This enables all profits to be given to Saint Jude's. The money goes to ALSAC, a national fund raising organization that was established by Danny Thomas for the pur­pos~ o_f funding the research mstttutton. 
Saint Jude's Hospital was established in Memphis by lnomas in 1962. It is a research center dedicated to eliminating catastrophic childhood diseases such as leukemia and Hodgkin's disease. Their research also includes studies of malnutrition among children. 

Erratum 
The Observer apoligizes to Kit Bernardi, who authored yester­day's feature "SMC Cele­brates.'' 
more was likely 
before Iran's crisis eased. 
The aide, Dr. Ibrahim Yazdi, formerly of Houston, Texas, said many elements of Iran's 430,000 man army had swung over to Mehdi Bazargan, Khomeini's choice as prime minister of a provisional revolutionary govern­ment. 
Yazdi also claimed yesterday's flyover was a display of backing for Bazargan. He did not elaborate. 
Residents of Isfahan, Iran's second largest city, said Kho­meini backers had assumed police functions and administra­tion of city depanments there. 
''The time tor a coup has come and it has failed," Yazdi told reponers at Khomeini' s com­mand post in Tehran. ''We have very good reason to expect no problem in this regard.'' 
Referring to clashes yesterday berwee pro and anti-Khomeini groups at Zahedan, near the Pakistani border, in which three persons died, Yazdi said, "We're at a very critical and sensitive stage. It is not as rosy as one might expect. There are rem­nants of the old regime (of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi) still operating and seeking to cause v10lence.'' 
The exodus of foreigners con­tinued with the departure of 400 Americans and 70 Canadians from Tehran aboard military transpons. A U.S. Embassy spokesman said the number of Americans in Iran is 5,000, down from a peak of ur, to 50,000 before political strife began a year ago. 
Among those leaving yester­day were George Van Vladricken and his Iranian wife Lida. Van Vladricken, of New York, has a pilot for Bell Helicopter Interna­tional in Isfahan. 
"Everybody feels good about going, although most people will 

Anyone interested in the position of 

Observer Editor-in-Chief 
for the 1979-80 school year should contact Tony Pace by Friday, Feb. 9th call 8661 or 7471 
as pan of their plans for UCLA Bruin weekend. The pompoms will be sold for 50 cents m the dining halls, at the pep rally and before the game. 

VOLUNTEER OPPORTUNITIES 
A wide variety of volunteer activities are now open to the ND-SMC community. Come and find an activity to suit both your interest and yourschedule. Anyone interested in giving an hour or rwo a week please stop by. 
VOLUNTEER SERVICES OFFICE, 
1.5 LaFortune or CALL 7308 
Engineering & Computer Science Majors 

BEFORE YOU PICK UP YOUR DEGREE, PICI( OUR INTERVIEW. 
Contact your placement office for interview dates. 
Ir------------------,I 
:HUGHES l 
IL------------------JI 
CiNtlnfl•,.. world wllh fflecllonic• 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNilY EMPLOYER M/F 




montgomery® 
WILL CONDUCT INTERVIEWS ON THIS CAMPUS 
Tues., Feb. 13, 1979 
CAREER POSITIONS IN VERTICAL TRANSPORTATION MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT WILL BE DICUSSED WITH DEGREE CANDIDATES IN 
Bus. Ad. 
FOR MORE 
·INFORMATION ABOUT MONTGOMERY AND OUR FUTURE VISIT TO YOUR CAMPUS, CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE. 


montgomery<l'l 
ELEVATORS! ESCALATORS 
POWER WALKS I RAMPS 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
Montgomery Elevator Company, Moline, Illinois 61265 Montgomery Elevator Co .. Limited. Toronto, Ontario M983S5 Offices in rinci cities of North America 

... 

. ' .. 
The Observer 


SMC faculty members meet, discuss compulsory 
•


rettrement 





PAUL GERNI 
World Trick Shot Pool Champion 
by Kit Bemardi 

Members of the Saint Mary's College faculty met yesterday in Carroll Hall to discuss the Com­pulsory Retirement Law which was enacted in 1977. This piece of federal legislation prohibits the involuntary retirement of any employee below age seventy, except college and university professors who are exempt from mandatory retirement until July 1982. 
In October of 1978 members of the American Association of Uni­versity Professors (AAUP) su~­ported SMC faculty assembly s proposal requesting "continued employment by Saint Mary's College of tenured professors, should they choose toW' on, who would otherwise renre in the period between January 1, 1979 and June 30, 1982 before reach­ing age seventy ... '' In October of 1978 an ad hoc committee was 

wed., feb. 7th two shows: 4&7 pm 

in the billic::ud room-LQFortune bQsement FREE! sponsored by S.U. social comm. 


9,12,15 in. 
beef ,sausage ,or pepperoni additional items available also 


made on premises-not frozen 
have it at the Huddle or carry it out phone orders accepted call 7157 
~se coupon below for 25~ off any size pizza 




r----------------,
1 25¢ on The Huddle 1
1 snack bar 1 I any size pizza offer good Wed& Thurs,l1 Feb. 7 & 8 1 



-----------------· 
-----·-Wednesday, -Feoruarf 7~.. 1979 -page 4 
appointed to look into the faculty assembly's proposal to extend the protection offered by the legislation to currendy retired SMC faculty members who have not yet reached age seventy. 
At yesterday's meeting a modi­fication of the/resent resolution was suggeste . This resolution would include SMC faculty mem­bers who turned sixty-five before 1979. This proposal was voted down by the faculty assembly in favor of a request to modify the college retirement policy which concerns professors who turn age sixty-five between 1979-1982. At present, contrary to federal legis­lation where an employee cannot 
be required to retire until ~ seventy, college and universtty professors are subject to retire­ment on university demand, at age sixty-five. The Saint Mary's College faculty assembly intends to recommend a change in col­lege . policy on retirement to the · administration and request action 
as soon as possible. 
A report was made by the 

Personal Welfare Committee re­
garding the increase in faculty 
salaries, a percentage of which 
will be distributed to the retire­
Teacher's Insurance Annuity 
Association retirement fund. A 
second report was offered by the 
ad hoc committee about the study ~ proposals regarding changes m the Rank and Tenure Com­mittee and its procedures. 
The meeting also included the election of the Nominating com­mittee to serve for 1979. The committee will consist of: Mary Jo Kubinski (acting chairman), Charles Martucci, Martin Dull, Lin Vacca, and Rita Cassidy. 
Announcements were reported by Dr. Anthony Black, chairman, concerning submission of ques­tions for the College Bowl, CPR training courses av3ilable to SMC faculty members, and proposed arrangements of faculty use of the Angela Athletic Facility. The meeting adjourned at 12:15 p.m. 
Carter asks for beefed-up drafting 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Presi­dent Carter is asking Congress for $5 million to beef up the standby draft system to meet the Pentagon's "worst case" requirement for enough men to fight a sudden, bloody war in Europe. 
But White House officials say that is only a first step and not Carter's final decision on new efforts to resurrect draft registra­tion -if not the draft itself -that are expected to be taken up early in the new session of Congress. 
The push for reworking the draft system comes amid studies that show the present system could not turn out enough sol­diers quickly in the event of a 
. . . Donahue 
[Continued from page 1] decided that I will never again give a body ofcomplete strangers the power to decide whether I am morally acceptable to them, God, or anybody else." Displaymg the charm and per­sonal ideology that led Gloria Steinham to once call him "a great feminist leader,'' Donahue explained that he once was "the kind of person they talked about in those feminist conventions," until feminism "had a major impact in my thinking." "When I went here the guys had kind of a seventh grade mentality,'' Donahue said. ''They would hang out the win­dows and drool when a girl came on campus. We never saw a girl as 'routine' in life. We never really learned what it means to have a 'friend'." Donahue's studio audience show with Hesburgh is scheduled for today at 12 p.m. It will be broadcast live over Chicago's WGN-1V, channel9, and will be taped for distribution to syndi­cated stations at a later· date. 
/***************: 
~ ONLY SEVEN ~ 
* *
i i
DAYS LEFT 


~ TO ~ 
* * 

~ SCREW ~ 
* * 

~YOUR ROOMMATE~ 
* *
* * 

l***************J 
European war in which thou­sands of Gls were killed. 
Senate Armed Services Chair­man John C. Stennis, D-Miss., says the only answer is to bring back the draft because the all­volunteer force cannot supply the 
technicians  that  the  military  
needs.  
Pentagon  officials  including  

Gen. David Jones, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, favor renewal of draft registration to create a pool of people who could be drafted fast 10 a sudden war. 
The latest draft registration advocate, Army Secretary Clif­ford Alexander, said last week that women should also be regis­tered. He would not say whether he thought women should be drafted for combat. 
A fourth option would be to draft people into the military reserves and create a trained force to send into a sudden war. 
No one knows yet how far Carter and Congress will go, but the betting is between improving the present standby system or • bringing back only draft registra­tion, not the draft itself. 
For one thing, Stennis is the only influential leader calling for renewal of the ,peactime draft. For another, netther Carter nor most congressmen want to anta­gonize young voters ifthey do not have to. 
Some congressional experts who want more done predict privately that Carter's decision will be to keep the draft system on standby. 
The problem is that the stand­by draft now cannot move fast enough to meet the Pentagon's requirement, based on a ''worst case" sudden non-nuclear war in Europe, that the standby Selec­tive Service System supply the first draftees in 30 days, 100,000 draftees in two months and 650,000 draftees in six months. 
The Selective Service, with a skeleton staff of 92 people, would have to move that quickly from a standing start. 

Candidates must meet 
There will be a mandatory meeting for all potential SBVP candidates tomorrow night at 10:00 p.m.. The meeting Will be held at the student govern­ment offices on the second floor of LaFortune. Petitions for candidacy will be passed out at this time. 
Its present plan is to set up draft Offices in three days and within 15 days use state election machinery to conduct a mass one-day registration of more than 4 million young people. It would conduct a draft lottery in 20 days and mail out draft notices in 28 days. 
But Carter's federal reorganic zation experts say test runs last fall showed it would take Selec­tive Service possibly 58 days to do that -and at least eight to 10 months to supply the 650,000 draftees. 
The president's Reorganiza­tion Project experts concluded the system needs a computer 10 times larger than its present one to handle the load and a simpler draft machinery that could be set up ra~;>idly . 
Acung Selective Service Direc­tor Robert E. Shuck says he thinks he needs only four times as much computer capacity but a study is under way to detennine the actual needs. 
ND Series to present recital 
The Notre Dame Concert Series will present flautist Lisa Funston­Mahoney in a faculty recital at 
8:15 p.m. tonight in the Library Auditorium. Ms. Mahoney will be ·accompanied by music de­partment chairman William Cerny, piano, and assisted by 
James Catalano, a 1977 Notre Dame graduate in music; and area musician Nick Medich. 
usa Mahoney is a teaching as­sociate in flute with the Notre Dame Music Department. She graduated from Notre Dame in 1978 with a Master of Music degree in Performance and Liter­ature of the flute. She was a student of Mark Thomas. A native of South Bend, Ms. Ma­
-~
honey graduated in 1976 from Ball State University with a B.S. in music education, with flute and harp as major and minor instruments, respectively. 
Wednesday's program includes the Hindemith Sonata for flute and piano, the "Poem" by Charles Griffes, Varese's "Den­sity 21.5" for solo flute, and Claude Bolling's "Suite for Flute and Jazz Piano." In the Bolling work Ms. Mahoney and Cerny will be joined by Catalano, drums; and medich, bass. 
eith<';r Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BoARD 
reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............ Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Od/dnd Sports Editor ............ Ray O'Brien Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chris Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Langhenry Photo Editor . . . . . . . . . . Doug Chnstian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mills per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cacld_e) Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Saint Mary's EditoF ...... FJ/en Buddy Business Manager ........ john Tucker Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rudy 
reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 

_The Observer_ of 


..'I

-·~--~-­
·.-·-·-.' __..___ 
The Observer Wednesday, February 7, 1979 -page 5 



Senior Oub to have Welcome Miller Night 
The Notre Dame Senior Club is having a "Welcome Miller Night," tonight, to officially an­nounce the addition of three new beers to the line of products currently being offered by the bar. The new beers are Miller, Miller Lite and Lowenbrau. 
According to Senior Bar man­ager Mike Schlageter, ''The new drafts offer club members an expanded line of beers at the cheapest prices in town." 
"Most of the surveys we've read have reported that Miller and Miller I.ite are two of the three most popular beers among college students with Michelob being the other. We already serve Mich so now we have all of the top three,'' Schlageter said. 
The new additions are all distributed by Michiana Beverages of South Bend. This marks the first time this year that Senior Bar has worked with two distributo(S. The club's other beers, Michelob, Michelob Light, Stroh's, Anheuser Busch Light, and Budweiser are all handled by United Beverages. 
"We are really looking forward to serving the students' needs in the upcoming semester," says Tom Gryp, campus representa­tive for Michiana Beverages. "We're going to work with Senior Bar throughout the semes­ter and we are confident that our product will be very well accep­ted by the club's members." 
In addition to "Welcome Miller Night, · c ·hlageter and Gryp are also plat ·~ to estab­lish a Senior Bar bucket Brigade using Miler and Miller Lite buckets. 
Students will be offered an opportunity to purchase a bucket which will then be engraved with the student's name and hung above the Miller bar. Students will then be able to have their buckets filled at discount prices. 
Art festival t t
0 cas 
Casting for the plays scheduled in coordination with the Senior Arts Festival to be held Mar. 28 through April 4 will take place tomorrow night at 7:30 in the Nazz. All mterested seniors, regardless of experience, are encouraged to read for the plays, which are presented, directed, and. in some cases, written by semors. The cast of' 'JB,' · a play by Arch­ibald MacLeish chromcling the story of the Book of)ob, calls for 22 characters rangmg from the characters of Job and God to 
Job's friends and children. 
Two Beckett plays, "Play" and an adaption of "The Lost ones," are also scheduled for produc­tion. Though little acting is involved, the plays call for casts of five to ten voices, some of which are taped. 
A series of vignettes written by Mark Amenta, a senior, will also be cast. Between eight and ten roles are open, including many parts for women. The roles vary greatly in size and time committ­ment needed. 
A radio play written by Tolkien and scheduled to be broadcast on WSND will also be cast. 
For more information, call Cindy Dykhoff (3887) or Kathy Ryan (7916). 


r 
I 
l 
I 
The Observer Wednesday, February 7, 1979 -page 6 
ACROSS tapered 

62. Take note of
1. Dilr up with the snout 
D 0 W N
&." !ll~mbera of a 

I. Mad scram-
troop 

ble: 2 wda.
11. Guffaw 
(Ilana')
u_ Science of 

2. Umpire's call mtlit.aryma­
3· Grunts
neuvt>rinc: 

4. Muscle power 1~. Maximally: 3 
:;, Heavy andwds. 
uninteresting16. 1952 victors: 6. Lawyer's jobabbr. 
7. Month: abbr.
17. 
Jr.'s father 



8. 4oth U.S
18. 
Stocldtolm 


state: abbr. 
~ident 

9. Make taut: 
19. ~one god 
2 wds.

20. L'nder one's 10. Scurry off -.secret ll. Place for 
22. 
Droop mascara 

23. 
Sliefttly 13. Nimble aazy, in Eng­



IS. Scantyland 

19. Carriu, asP 
24. t:.S. satellite 

~nr.-r-T<~< r--n~,uora-mn 
informal discussion on career
26. v•hirl 
28. Simmer and 

opportunities with Chemical 
bubble 

Bank at 7 p.m. tonight in the
30. Turns upside clown 

Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 
33. Harmomous 

The opening speaker for the for­
notes 

um was Frank T. Alfieri, senior 
35. Cooking fat 

vice president and chief ftnancial 
36. Insert mark 

officer of Clark Equipment Com­
38. Doctrine 
40. Average con­

pany. Alfieri recently came to 
dition 

Clark from ITI Europe where he
H. At a distance 

was ITI's vice president and
42. Famt light 
44. "-unto 

comptroller to take over all of 
others ..." 

Clark's ftnancial operations. He 
41i. Grassy patch 

spoke on ''Financial Controls in a
46. Soft-soaped 

Multinational Corporation" this
48. Stand linn: 2 
wds. 

morning in the Hayes-Healy ' 
SO. Hq 

Auditonum
51. Round and 

Frank A. Potenziani, a '67 Notre Dame graduate, followed Alfieri. 
Potenztani is the director of Mountain States Financial Cor­poration from Albuquerque, New Mexico. He lectured on "Moun­tain States Financial, an Inter­


Yesterday's 

mediate Size Company Facing 
Economic Constraints of '79 and 
Growth." 
At 2:20p.m. today, William). Hank, chamnan of the board .of Colon-Moore Corporation will be discussing ''The Human Equa­tion in Mergers and Acquis­

Answers 


tions." This will involve the 

Molarity Michael Molinelli 


21. From-to 




Finance Club to present forum 
the crave: 2 
c 
wds. R
23. Soft food 

The Finance Club will present its 
25. Additional 

Annual Finance Forum, today
27. Reddish 
0
brown 

and tomorrow , in Hayes-Healy 
_ Torr;d
29 

Auditorium. The forum is a 
31. Blind alley: s 

program designed to inform stu­
2 wda. 
32. Took long 

dents about the proceedings in
s
steps 

the financial world. To achieve 
_ Expand
34 

this objective, various corporate
36_ Ready money w 

executives have been invited to
37. In progresa 
39. Smoker's 
0 

share their experiences or em­
need R 

phasize related topics in the
42. Satiate 

financial environment.
43. Mother, in ., France 

In addition to the forum, one of 
46 D 
· Dog to cat 

the speakers, Mr. William H. 
47. Fish eggs 

Darrow Vice President of Chem­
49. Dolittle's 
s 
title: abbr. 

ical Bank will be holding an people problems firms are faced with when mergers and acquisi­tions occur. Hank is a '54 Notre Dame ~raduate. 
J. Davtd Dubin, vice president of The First Boston Corporation will speak on the investment banking industry and in particular ' 'The Functions ofan Investment Bank­er." His presentation is at 9:30 
p.m. tomorrow in the Hayes­Healy Auditorium. 
The final presentation ofthe for­um will be by two Notre Dame graduates speaking in a dialogue fashion on ''The Interaction of a 
Student Union to sponsor floral service 
A Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Floral service, sponsored by the ND Student Union, begins taking orders today. The service will be able to provide corsages and boutonnieres for any formal occa­sion during this semester. 
The price of flowers purchased through this service will be lower than retail stores, according to the Student Union, because the only cost will be for the services 
of an experienced flower  arran­ 
ger and for  the flowers  them­ 
selves.  

The Student Union requests that all orders be placed at the earliest possible time by calling 234-2389 or 232-0161. Students should specify the type and color of flower desired. 
Commercial Bank and a Real Estate Development Company.'' They are Willtam H. Darow, vice president of Chemical Bank and Anthony E. Vallace, president of Galbreath-Ruffin Corporation, a real estate development com­pany. They will present an actual development they are involved with in Cincinnati,OH, at the First National Bank Center. The time for this presentation is 11 
a.m. tomorrow. 

Doonesbury 
By Trudeau 
/JJHAT500"OF~/?SON JOINS KCN­NEIJYS SO-CALLEIJ"CUI-7 OF CIJN­SOCNCE*? WHATcXAcrt.Y IS A LIBERAl'?ANTIOCH 50CIOL.OG6T 
AlVIN CDMMEIIT5. 
711£ 7YPIC4L L.I8CI?AL FAN7Jl51e5 
AEJa/T81JilPIN6 A JUSTIWO c64LJTARJAN SOCieTY. /QH/ITlie txe5N'TfiN~/:? OF 
IS ?HAT 7ll£5e 7HIN6S rYrT. _,,cv 


~~--~~~~-----r~3 

"'0• n 
~ 0
0 ~ 
~ Why Not Spend Yout t 
SPRING Steak On The 
Sunny Beaches of Flotido 
Stay at the Holiday Inn Oceanside Ft. Laudetdale Fla•. 
Buses leave ND circle Sat. March 17, at 8 am. Direct to Fort Lauderdale, Fla. At 8 am on March 23 buses will take you to Orlando and Disney­World. Mter overnight lodging in Orlando, die return trip leaves at 8 am on March 24 arriving at the ND crrlce Sun March 25. 


Price $209 P.er personPrice mcluCles all transportation,. lodging in Ft. 
Lauderdale, Orlando, Dtsneywond tic.Ket. 



call 234-2196 
Neighborhood Study Program needs ND -SMC student volunteers to tutor grade school children at the following times: mw 12:45-2:05 mw 2:15-3:15 
mw 3:45-5:15 tt 1:15-2:45 tt 6:45-8:15 
*All times include approximately 1 hour of tutoring 
and transportation ume from ND-SMC to tutoring 
center and back. 

•All transportation is provided free. 
*Tutoring is one-on-one in simple math, spelling, or reading. 
If lntetested, please call ffiike Scanlon 1762 Judy Cole 1363. 
Sue Claus 4-1-4691 

ONLY /QHEN He IS HE VUTl3. HAPPILY, /JA~-HE'S /115AFFCCTt/J {}(/5? R/6HT MJIA/, 
Oriental Express Restaurant 
Featuring Cantonese Ch.tnese, Vietnamese & Amencan Dishes 


115 Dixie Way N. 
"Carry out or Dine in" 

272-6702 


------,------------~ 
... 
I
The Observer 
I 
• • . Marquette 
[Continuedfrom page 8) up the loose ball to give Notre out of bounds as the clock ran wasting a three-on-one situation. Dame possession with 1:33 show­out. 
ing on the clock. Sieven then
Maggie Lally took a pass from After the game Coach Petro
forced a jump ball with Carol
Jan Schlaff and popped in a field could only sigh with relief.
Lally, and off that jump, Maggie 
goal to again give Notte Dame a "what a super game. The girls
Lally tied up Reeney. Marquette
four point lead but Morin came just played super, evidenced by
took possession ofthis second tap the fact that we only had eightright back with a bucket off a in their end of the floor and set tt turnovers. In the second timeout two-on-one break to make the up for a shot. But Feeney missed at the end of the game, I told
score 42-40 at the 12:01 mark. a footer with left
ten :58 and Carol that she had the shot withThen, the Irish went to work. 
Notre Dame had the ball. 
no problem, but I told the rest of Over the next 2:56, the girls An intentional foul sent Schlaff the girls that ifMom missed it to outscored the Warriors 12-2, a to the line, but Jan missed the just plaf good D, put pressure on basket by Tricia McManus giving front end of a one-and-one. the bal at that end of the floor,them their biggest lead of ~ Feeney grabbed the rebound for and don't commit any fouls. You afternoon 54-42. the Warriors and they took a saw what happened.'' The stark trees overhang St. Mary's Lake on a cold wintry day. 
Marquette, however, refused time-out with :27 left on the shot Carol fmished as
to die. An 8-1 spun by the clock and :33 in the game. With Lally the 
game's high scorer with her 23
Warriors cut the lead to five, at :15 remaining, Morin's twelve points. Politiski was the only55-50. Following an ND timeout, footer from the baseline missed other Irish player to doubleCarol Lally hit a free throw and the mark, and Maggie Lally, the 
figures with 12. Spellacy led • • • WRMs 
Jan Schlaff a field goal to give the smallest person on the floor, • 
Marquette with 19, followed bx [Continued from page 8) 
Christian, and Jim Slattery com­
Irish a 58-50 lead with 5:40 grabbed the rebound. With :04 Morin with 15, all in the second
remaining. A 7-1 burst brought left, Carol Lally was fouled, and clearing 15 feet. bined for a time of 3:31 to take 
half, and Sieven with 10.
the Warriors to within two at following a Notre Dame time out fifth place.
Freshman John Meyer, run­
59-57 with 2:17 left. gave the Irish the three point The Warriors outrebounded the The Irish have two meets on
ning the 500 meters for the first 
After Meyer missed a pair of lead. Marquette then called a Irish for the game 44-38. SPellacy tap for this weekend. On Friday
time ever, took fourth in that
foul shots, Marquette brought timeout in an attempt to set up a led Marquette with nine boards, they travel to the Big State meet
event in 1:06.9.
the ball up the floor. Jane desperation play. The ~iris came and Feeney and Andrykowski in Bloomington, Indiana, and Politiski knocked the ball away back out, and Lally mtssed her chipped in with six. Politiski' s 11 The other placer for the Irish then on Saturday they compete in from one of the Marquette second free throw, but a long rebounds led Notre Dame, while was .the spnnt medley team. the Knights of Columbus meet in players, and Maggie Lally picked Warrior pass _down the floor wnet Carol Lally had eight. Jacques Eady, Bill Ribera, Jim Cleveland. 
All classified ads m·ust be rece1ved by 5:00p.m.. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run The Observer office Will accept classifieds Monday through Friday. 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
cla~sit1eds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail.









Classifieds 
Lost In men's locker room of ACC during Business opportunity. Introduce Sun· Desparately need 1 or 2 student or GA 01' Brown Eyes-first week of classes: Blue sweatpants danncer to your friends. Apply-2211 N. UCLA tlx. Call 41-4103. 1can still see my reflection In your eyes as
with "Northport" written on them. Main at McKinley In Mishawaka, or call they show what your true tHoughts still
Notices 
Sentimental value. Call John 1651. 
256-0971. Help! Bobby desperately needs 4. are. (padded seat) UCLA tix-$$$f Please call
Happy Hour! Fridays from 3-6, Pandora's Lost: At 823 Notre Dame Ave. Party last Vanilla Waters, clean white
Need Riders to Penn State weekend of 7607. Reality:
Is offering a 2 tor f sale on used books. Friday. aturquoise bracelet. Call 3f50 to Feb. 9 Call 6141. socks...black holes.
Located behind N.D. apts. 233-2342. identify. 
Will sell sultemates or provide much cash 
Wanted: Need ride to U. of ILL. -Buy AI Paclno's snow tires check the
\'lf ~CLA student ticket. Call Mike atTravel to London & Rome this summer. 
Lost: One crutch outside of the library Champaign on Fri. Feb 9. Call Mark 1 "For Sale" ads for necessary details.For more Information contact Dr. A. about a week and a hail ago. If you've 
1441.
Black SMC 4948. seen this crutch alive, call Mike at 1678. Desll_Brate!!! Need student UCLA ticket Badin Is selling Valentine carnations for $$$ Call John 8864. your sweetie. ~1.00 each In South Dining
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 

Lost: gym clothes wrapped In gray Hall. Today thru Friday. Buy now!!
Student loans $20-$150. 1 percent Inter­

For Sale 
sweatpants at South Dining Hall. Thurs. Wanted: 2 UCLA tlx GA or student.
est due In 30 days LaFortune basement 
2/1. Call Bob 3209. Jerry 1756. Kobo-face
11:30-12:30 M·F. 
That all night show called bZZZZl was Ski bus trip to Boyne Country $86 Lost: A sterling parker pen Friday In ~~~fs~~ fPCo~V~~ Hoo! Please Need.GA UCLA tix Bill 288-2773. great!!
either cashier or student aecount offices. buy my snow t1res, 2 studded snows
Includes lodging, mealslllft tickets and 
transportation. leave Fr . Feb 23 at 5 p~ if found call Bart at 1078. 155-15. Excellent condition. 2for $40.00. Top Price for one UCLA ticket-try me Kim,If purchaser is gorgeous female type 25 Greg 8855.
Return Sun. Feb 25 pm. S~nsor-Benaix Sorry, buddywoods ski patrol contact Corky Patton Mike
Lost: Top of ladles brown sweats at ACC percent discount pi us one date to mo. movie/concert of her choice. If male, 10 Help! 1 need GA or student UCLA
234-9307. 
percent markup. Call AI Pac/no at 3748. tickets. Will pay$$$ MJ 8117. 
Betsy Biscuit·If not In ask for his roomate Adonis.
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Bedford The million dollar question tor 288-2107. Hours 8 am to 5 pm. the million dollar girl:

For Rent 
For Sale: Rugged winter boots. 
How does one realize sexual

Personals
Excellent condition. Dark brown, size
Experienced typist will do typing out of freedom at Notre Dame?
8Y2. Call Jeff at 1525 for info.
For Rent: Immediate occupancy! 5home. Call 272-1401. 
Wanted: Two Phoenix heat-seekingbedroom, 2 bath hOuse, furnished and Mary Pat,
Excellent UCLA ticket available. 6th Row missles for use by campus-wide para­
0!1!1[ memorial hospital. 6 month Lease
Attention all Lwan volunteers and Inter­Just thought I'd say Hello... 
~ month plus utilities and security from floor student section (padded seat). military group, APN (Abolish Parletals
ested students! Your friend, Tim
deposit Call Bobbie 233·3161. Absolutely no offer less than $50 or more Now). Leader of group. Max VanThis friday, February 9th, from 7:30­
than $8,000 acceptable. Call N. Smashlt will bestow special medals to
10·00 om ls the annual valentines day JoeChem-Lab,
Available for next year: 5 bedroom Rockefeller at 3748. person or Qersons delivering weapons
dance lor the mentally handica.PPed kids The Turkish goods have arrived.
Call Nancy first.
and adults of the community. T~e dance home-completelY. turnfshed. UNITE AND ABOLISH. The 11-C connection Is In the Logan Center cafeteria, and the Humbarger 234-9364. For Sale: Marantz AMP. 70 RMS 
live band rs Pages, an excellent rock Watts/Chan. ($300) and/or Fisher St-640 The ADONIS promises the multitudes his THE ADVENTURES OF A
For Rent: Tired of the noise and crowds? nastiest show of the semester. Celebrate
speakers ($400/palr) call Sundance 8916.
aroi So comll ~In /" ~n the tuo, BORING PERSON
refr ments, and e own. H!!IP How about a view of the river! Near Mardi Gras Impending arrival Thursday (CHAPTER SEVEN)
th' ds have agreat ti e! o admlssloh campus. Reasonable Rent. Call 234-2662 9-11 pm only on WSNU.
Refrigerator for sale $60 1787 ask for "Alas! ", cried he, "I have no percep­
chllrge. or 234·8402. 
Peter. 
tion of the problem, and therefore do not 3:20-6:00 j)m (meet at ND library circle). House for rent. 913 Cedar St. 3 ads? Whoever It Is they really know exist In that sen5e." But the invisible
Other Logan activities: Bowling Friday Who's putting In all those RED HEAD 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat.hSun. 
man was comforted by the fact that the
Saturday Rec this saturday from 9:IJ0-bedrooms tully furnished. 288-6740 9-7 Ralph C_a_sjll_lrson 1303 Buc anan what they're talking about! Panama Red 
11:30 am. Corvllla formal Sunday night. evenings. Road Niles. 683-2888. secret of happiness could only be found In 
Volunteers needed to help In homestart Remember:" ...And the Red heads will the taste of green peas. and Logan classrooms during the week. Furnished 4-6 bedroom house for rent FOR SALE: 1 student ticket ta U.C.L.A. Inherit the earth ..." (More to come ...) 
Call Mfke at 1371 or Sue at ~1-4832. this tall. Walking distance to campus. padded 181t row 10. Clllli6371fter 6:110. 
Nice. Call 272·1729 after 7:00pm. Ask for Bob Augusta Is a musta!! To the fuzzy ducks: Does he? 
NOCTURNE NIGHTFUGHT, WSND-89 3 room turn/shed apt on Portaa.es Ave, WILL PAY 120 FOR ANY UCLA OA TIX Laura-Thanks for a great time.
Reference,· Deposit plus $145.ro rent.
FM. RENEE REDER FEATURES THE CALL MATT 6637. Hope that the sun Is shining today! Love Ya. Biz and Buz
Tenant pays electric. 234-7670.
MUSIC OF CHUCK MANGIONE Happy 19th! TONIGHT!!! LoveS,K,S "Dirk", "Sou-Co", "Juice", and "Mr.
4-5 Bedroom 2baths available In June or thereafter $300 month. 232-9498, 291­
Half-Keg will Travel":

Tickets 
Meeting of all Long Islanders Wed. Feb. Thanks for an excellent reunion Friday 
7 7 pm 2D LaFortune. night with the 90 bottles: Anxiously
Urgently need any number UCLA tlx. awaiting a second reunion I
LOSt & Found Wanted , 
Please call Terf. 7993. Member of the· '5 am Club"
THE NO STUDENT PLAYERS What happens to super-macho movieHelp! 1need tix to UCLA-ND game. Call
Lost: Black "LAMY" mechanical uenc/1 hero Jed Jericho who secretly writes Berta, 
with sliver tip last saturday In the south OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year round. Anne 4236. . kiddie books as ahedne aoalnst a.saaalna We'd rather be blue thinking of you than dining hall or Eng. Bldg. I would Europe, S. America Australia. Asia, Etc. career7 Try out and11mrout. Par-ware be happy with any other funny glrl. appreciate very muCh to get It back call All fields, $500-$1,200 monthly. Need 1 student or GA UCLA tlx. Call available for four males and three HaiJPY Birthday! Eduardo 288-6740 evenings. Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free lnfo.­Larry 8701. females In Jack Sharkey's hilarious Love, Maureen, Mary, & Rose. 
Wrlte: IJC, Box 4490-14, 'Berkeley, CA comedy Double Exposure, the spring Lost: Calculator 11-30 around Feb 2-3. 94704. Wanted: UCLA tix. Call Ed 1022. [!roductlon of the ND Student Playe[S. Usa! Call BJ 288-4152. Try outs will be held Tuesday-4 Feti. 6th, GOOd luck tootlln9 tonight: "May the 
Need some xtra bread and willing to Desperately need UCLA tickets. GA or ana Wednesday Feb 7th at r:OO pm In Wind be with you! · 
Found: 1 student basketball season work? Fri. and/or Sat eves. Rave student can Pat at 277-3422. the basement of Lafortune. No exper­Love, Marilynticket. Call 3608 to identify. openings at the Huddle contact the Mgr. Ience necessary. 1 desperately need two GA or student RED HEADS, Strawberry blondes. tints,Accidently took a beige down coat, Need ride to Chicago Friday afternoon, tickets for the UCLA game. If I don't We know something you don't know­and highlights: Thursday night 7:00 pm
"world wide sportswear" brand, from come through mv. slsfer will have my come to Augusta lottery meetings.
Feb. 9Share conversation and expenses. In Keenan Conference Room will be the
Corby's last Thursday. Someone accl-hide! Call Kevin D. at 1787.
Please call Marybeth, 288-9049. first meeting of the Red Headed League
To Jill In 419 Badin: at ND! Find out what It Is all about by
~~rJ'.Y ~~~dmkl~sMW~r~3:'~~r~~~~;~:~-ST LOUIS-Ride needed for any weekend Badly needed: UCLA tickets; student or We did not ask you out aP.aln because of 
coming, or call Frank at 3213.
' had mv car evs & baske all ticket In It, this semester to St. Louis. Will share GA. any number up to 5. Please!!! Call your PROFESSIONAL attitude. 
so pleaSe return If. lim 37. Mike 277-1071.
expenses! Call Kevin, 8631. All of Us. 
Drown your troubles at first floor Keenan Lost: silver digital watch near Engineer­1need UCLA tickets badly Call Matt 1780 on Friday night.
Interested In Summer camp jobs? SMC juniors and sophomores-now Is theIng Bldg. Sunday night. Reward offered. 
Counselors-Instructors wanted for pres­time to start thinking of living In Augusta
Call Jofln at 1756. tige private boys and girls camps near 2 B'Ball tlx for UCLA or LaSalle Call next year. HI KATHY! Kalamazoo. 
866 . 
Lost: One gold watch bracelet last Jeannine, Thanx again tor the ride last
Lawrence Seeger Robert Redford lives In Augusta. Isn't
Thursday In the bar area. Call Susan Wanted: 1 or 2 student or GA UCLA tix weekend. Truly appreciate It!
1765 Maple, that enough reason to check It out?

41-4536. Northfield, Ill 60093 will pay good $$$. Call FJ 1222 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, February 7, 1979 -page 8 


Irish to face Wolfpack tonight 

by Lou Severino compiled a 20.3 scoring average. Sports Wn"ter The Dematha High grad also leads State in rebounding (6.6)
The top ranked Notre Dame and steals (1.5).basketball team, 16-2 after The Wolfpack quarterback on Monday night's win, travels to the floor is 6-3 Clyde "the .Glide" Raleigh, North Carolina tonight Austin who led State with 16 to meet the North Carolina State points in last year's loss in South Wolfpack. This will be the Bend. Austin is the second second contest between the two leading point man with a 14.9 schools with the Irish having average and leads in ;J.ssists with posted a 70-59 win last year at the 94. ACC. 
North Carolina State has an 
' ... Flowers and Laimbeer 
unusual 15-7 record with a mark of 1-6 in the ACC and 14-1 in 

will have

non-conference play. But that record is deceivmg since five of the six ACC losses were by three to rebound well ... ' points or less. This past weekend State captured both ends of the ] oinins Whitney and Austin in North-South doubleheader at the starmg lineup will be 6-6 Charlotte defeating Virginia guard Tony Warren(7 .8 ppg.) and Tech, 97-88, and toppling 6~ 7 forward Kendall ·'Tiny'' Furman 73-63. Pmder (11.9 ppg). Pinder is an 
The Wolfpack trademark. is excellent rebounder while depth with 10-12 players seemg Warren is a defensive spe<.:ialist,action in every game. Norm usually assigned to the opposing
Sloan's club featured ·baiancec;l club's top scorer. scoring last season with five · Center has been the weak link players in double figures, but this at N.C. State since the departure 
year 6-5 forward Charles of 7-4 Tom Burleson to the NBA. (Hawkeye) Whitney has taken Glenn Sudhop has been erratic over as the dominant scorer. throughout his four year career 
Whitney, has come into his own and this season the South Bend this season after shedding twenty native has been relegated to the pounds in the off season, and has bench ~y 6-11 sophomore Craig 
Petro's Irish women defeat Marquette, 60-5 7 
by Mark Hannuksela been up against tall teams be­and had only six rebounds in a 
Sports Wnter fore. Then Kathy Andrykowski 60-5 7 Irish win. But it was last walked out. At 6-4 Kathy had minute Irish heriocs that made the makings of a d~minant bas­the difference in the outcome. 
When the Marquette Warriors ketball figure. But Petro took ci Marquette jumped out to early 
walked onto the floor of the ACC all in stride. "We'll just have to 2-0 and 4-2leads. Baskets by Pat Saturday, Coach Sharon Petro's deny her the ball,'' she decided. Meyer, Jayne Politiski, and women's basketball team was And deny they did. Maggie Lally gave Notre Dame unimpressed. After all, they had Andrykowski scored just 9 points an 8-4 lead at 16:41 of the first 
Sports trivia: 'Who am I?' 
"I staned my baseball life as a catcher, until I was put in to pitch in a hopeless cause and established myself as a top-notch hurler. I have the highest won-loss percentage of pitchers with over 100 decisions. I retired shordy after the trade that returned me to the city where my big league career began." 
How many of you recognized Babe Ruth's voice from beyond the grave? How many of the following can you identify from the clues ~iven? If it's more than ten, claim the grand pnze of an Observer t-shirt. Answers will be forthcoming in a future edition. Good luck. 1 While many players have homered in their first major league game, I am unique in clouting· a grand slammer in my ftrst big league outing. Despite compiling impressive credentials since, however, I have been traded away five times. Can you name me? 2 Due to my quiet nature, I suppose, I was somewhat overlooked as a backfield member of a nnional championship club of the 1960s as well as a West Coast NFL entry in the '70s. A knee ailment hastened my departure from football. What is my name? 3 Even though I was considered a top harness racing driver, I was better known as a back-up goaltender on a contending Nlll.. team a few years back. Do you know me? 4 It was my homerun off Bob Gibson near the end of the 1974 season that knocked the Cardinals out of the pennant race. However, I am best remembered if at all for being born on the same day that Bah•.: Ruth passed away. Who am I? 5 Blackballed by the NBA for a point-shaving scandal in which I wasnotmvolved, proved to be a blessing, for I helped my ABA team to three league titles. What is my name? 
6: I am the only player in NCAA history to rush for over 1,000 yards and to catch 50 passes in a single season. In fact, ! have accomplished this double each of the last two years. Yet, this year I was overshadowed by my fancy throwing quanerback. Can you name me? 
-r~­

Mike 
~·,·'


Henry 
7. My three-hit shutoutin the final game of the 1956 World Series was lost in the shuffle of Don Larsen's perfect game a couple of days earlier. Like many of Casey Stengel's hunches, I paid off in spades as the Yankees revenged our setback of the previous year. What is my name? 
8 Though I was a starting hurler for most of my career, I hold the record of striking out seven consecutive batters at the stan of a relief stint. A losing battle with the gopher ball in 1971 forced my hasty departure from the game. Who am I? 9 I won the Heisman Trophy by leading my school to a 9-1 record, best in our history. That record still left us short of a conference championship, however, an accomplishment never achieved by my universityin over forty years of trying. Can you name me? 10 My job as a race-rider nearly ended afte a near-fatal spill at Hialeah Park in 1969. A hard-luck jockey most of my career, my reputation for recklessness prevented me from collecting damages from Hialeah. Who am I? 11 Mter graduating from Baylor, I pitched for the same club from 1921-1946, with time in the service towards the end of my career. 260 lifetime wins secured my niche at Cooperstown. Can you name me? 12 The closest I ever came to winning a major championship was in 1970, when I lost the Brit1sh Open toJack Nicklaus in an eighteen-hole play-off. In the previous round, I missed an eighteen-inch putt on the seventeenth hole that would have gu ranteed victory. Who am I? 13 I was a ftrst baseman for the Dodgers in the Depression days. My brother, a prizefighter, was killed in the nn~ by heavyweight champion Max Baer. Can you tdencify me? 
half. The Irish lead then alter­nated between two and four points until a hoop by Carol Lally made the score 16-10. A 6-2 spurt by the Warriors closed the gap to 18-16 with 8:13 remaining. 
With an assist from Ma£gie, Carol Lally hit a bucket off the fast break, then completed the three point play to give ND a 24-26lead. At the 2:38 mark, Pat Meyer picked up her fourth foul, and Mary Spellacy hit one of two free throws to complete a 7-2 Marquette run and cut their defictt to three at 26-23. Fresh­man Missy Conboy's basket closed out ftrst half scoring, and the Irish took a 30-25 lead into the lockerroom. 
Statistically for the Irish, Carol Lally scored 15 of her game high 2 3 points in the ftrst half on 7-14 shooting from the floor and 1-4 from the line. Politiski added six points for ND and Meyer had three. Spellacy hit 6-8 field goal attempts and added 3-4 from the line to lead Marquette. Andrykowski and Kaylyn Sievert were the only other Warriors to score in the ftrst half. Marquette held a 26-18 edge in rebounds. 
The second half opened with the Marquette defense holding the Irish without a shot in the 30 second time limit. Marquette missed a shot at their end of the floor, arid a hoop by Maggie Lally, with an asstst from Molly Cashman, was the ftrst score of the second half. The teams again traded points until the 17;25 mark, when Carol Lally picked up a technical foul. usa Morin converted the free throw, and Sievert followed with a basket to cut the lead to four, 36-32. A field goal by Maureen Feeney made the score 38-36. Carol Lally followed with a basket to again put the lead at four, but Spellacy followed with a two pointer of her own at 14:41 to make the score 40-38. 
A little more than a minute later, Marquette missed an opportunity to tie the game, 
[Continued on page 7) . 

Watts, the South Easton, Mass. native is not much of an offensive threat ~elf, averaging only four potnts per contest. In addition to Sudhop, Sloan can also call on 7-4, 191 pound stringbean Chuck Nevitt for re­serve duty. 
Digger Phelps will send out his regular starting five with Kelly Tnpucka and Orlando Woolridge at forwards, Billlaimbeer in the pivot and Rich Branning and Bill Hanzlik in the backcourt. Tripucka leads all scorers with a 
15.8 average. The Irish depth is shown by the fact that two of the top four scorers are reserves. Tracy Jackson who led ND with 18 against Loyola averages 12.7 and Bruce Flowers continues his outstanding play with 10 points per contest and 70 percent field goal shooting. As a team Notre Dame leads the nation with 56.2 percent field goal accuracy and 
22.1 point margin of victory. 
Tonight's game will be a matchup between teams with very similar styles. Both clubs play a motion offense and try to wear down opponents with their depth. The Irish advantage would seem to be at the center spot. The duo of Flowers and Laimbeer will have to rebound well to prevent easy fast break baskets by N.C. State. Tipoff for tonight's contest has been pushed uP. to 8:00. WSND AM-640 wtll broadcast the game live beginning at 7:55 with Lou Severino and Frank laGrotta calling play-by-play. 
Irish win at WMRs 
by Mark Perry Assistant Sports Editor 

Several members of the Notre Dame track team turned in good performances last Saturday, as Irish runners pulled in ten places at the Western Michigan Relays in Kalamazoo. 
"I thought the kids did really well," said Notre Dame assistant coach Ed Kelly. Kelly was in charge of the team while Head Coach Joe Piane was at the los Angeles Times Invitational with the two-mile relay team. 
And while this team was placing ftrst in that meet, what amounted to the second string two-mile relay team brought home the only ftrst place award from Western Michigan. Keith Cooper, Tim MacAuley, Tony Hatherly, and Thorn Needham combined to win the event in 7:46. 
Second place winners for Notre Dame were Marc Novak, who placed in the 5000 meters in 14:46, and Ahmad Kazirni, who leaped 45 feet, 10 1/2 inches, in the triple. 
The distance medley relay team ofMacAulev. Tom Bernier, Hatherly, and Joe Strohman, placed third with a time 9:58. "MacAuley's split of 1:51.6 would have qualified him for the NCAA tournament if it had been run in a normal half-mile race," Kelly noted. 
Other third placers were Tom Ferenc, who threw the shot 50 feet, 11 inches, and Tim Kardok, who cleared 6 feet, 4 inches in the high jump. 
Also placing in the high jump was Bob Caffrey, who was fourth at 6 feet, 2 inches. Perry Stowe took fourth in the pole vault, 
[Continued on page 7) 





