• • • refrigerator fee unfair-page 5 


Nestles boycott rests on VanWolvlear'svote 
by Pat Mangan He added that if it was 
StaffReporter necessary for Hesburgh to make the decision, he would probably support the students' 
After more than a year-long decision anyway. struggle and an overwhelming "Hesburgh's main concern 72 percent vote in favor of was that the students would be 
·boycotting 'the Nestle Co., only given the opportunity to make a minor details stand in the way well-nformed, intelligent deci­of. its implementation by the sion and they have," he said. University. John Reid, director Commenting on the effective­of Student Activities comment­ness of the boycott, Van Wolv­ed, "To my knowledge, the lear explained that since Nestle stipulations have been met and is only a subsidiary of its much the next step is implementa­larger Swiss-based parent com­tion, but that decision will come pany Nestle S.A., It would be from Fr. Van Wolvlear." very difficult to affect them. He 
Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vice­added that w!Ji!e the boycott president of Student Affairs, probably wouldn't sustain any said that the World Hunger substantial adverse effects to Coalition (WHC) was very tho­Nestle S.A., at least it will have rough in preparing its case some impact. ,, . calling for the boycott. He Referring to one of t~e mmor added that while the major details,'' which he sa1d needed stipulations had been satisfied, to be worked out, Van Wolvlear there were still a few minor states, "That's why I want the 
details to be discussed with WHC to submit a comprehen­John Dunbar, co-ordinator of sive list of Nestle products ... so WHC. that they could be given to the 
Dunbar will be meeting with students in order to carry on the Van Wolvlear sometime tomor­boycott at home.'' row and said that he doesn't When the boycott is imple­Editor's Note: A copy of the statement comptroller; Gary Luchini, services commission­expect any serious problems. mented it will affect all the food 
released by the Steering Committee appears on er, and Bill Roche, director, has decided to 
Bro. K1eran Ryan, assistant operations under the Univer­
today 's Editon'al page. reopen the application process to any under­vice-president for Business Af­sity's jurisdiction including allgraduate student.
by Tim joyce fairs, said that an implementa­dormitory foodsales operations
"We felt that since we were unable to reach a
StaffReporter tion of the boycott would be a and the North and South Dining 
decision according to our criterion of four out of ''policy deciswn'' and would Halls. Robert Robinson, seniorThe Steering Committee of the Student Union five votes, it would be better to not adhere to the probably be decided by Uni­food service Director said that if (SU) has not been able. to reach a decision in the constitutional deadline of March 1, than to versity President Fr. Theodore the University did implementnomination of the SU director for next year. In a submit no one as a nomination and meet the 
M. Hesburgh. the boycott, any Nestle pro­statement released last night, .the Steer!ng deadline. This should have, in turn, bound the However, Van W olvlear said ducts in stock would be used
Committee Reported a deadlock 10 the votmg Board of CommissiOners to our second nomina­that as long as the WHC and that he would meet withprevented them from nominating any of the tion, rather than ~iven them the choice between complied with all of the stipula­John Dunbar, WHC co-ordina­applicants. . . the two,'' Lu :hint explained. 
tions of their earlier agreement, tor, and pick a reasonableAccording to the candidate selection rules, four Applications for the position ofSU director are it would not be necessary for compliancl'" nate.
of the five committee members must agree on available in the Student Union offices and are Hesburgh to make .the decision. [continued on page 2]
the nomination. At last night's meeting, none of due Monday, March 5. The Steering Committee the four applicants were able to garner the will, for the second time, interview applicants necessary four votes. Tuesday. 
The tour nominations were: Jeff Hawk and Although it failed to appoint a new director, Curt Hench, ~oth juniors fr~m Stanford; Mi~e the Steering Committee has submitted a 
China and Vietnatn 
Decker, a jun1or from Mornssey, and Denms nomination for Student Union comptroller. The Callahan, a sophomore from Carroll. sole applicant is Rich Pinkowski, a junior from As a result, the Steering Committee, made up Amherst, NY. His nomination will be reviewed 
jockeyforposition
ofJerry Perez, cultural arts commissioner; John by the Board of Commissioners tonight at 10 
Bonacci, social commissioner; Maureen Carney, p.m. BANGKOK, Thailand (AP)­there was no sign of a Chinese Vietnam claimed yesterday to pullback in that region. have put 1,600 Chinese troops One Vietnamese officer was out of action in a northwestern quoted by these sources as
In an effortforpeace province where analysts believe saying the Chinese were using the armies are jockeying for ''typical human wave tactics,'' position prior to one of the most and their charges were herald­decisive battles of the eleven­ed by the sound of bugles. 
USsupports Egyptianposition 
day-old border war. China challenged Vietnam to Ching said today it would pull announce a mutual withdrawalWASHINGTON (AP) -The 
onymity, said the Carter ad­to act in collective self-defense. out of Vietnam if Hanoi would of troops, but added, "We do
United States, in its drive to ministration also supports the Treaty terms agreed to last withdraw its forces from Cam­not think y_ou dare,'' accordingbreak the deadlock in Mideast 
Egyptian position that the fall by Egyptian and Israeli bodia, which it invaded in to the official Chinese news 
peace treaty negotiations, is treaty with Israel should not negotiators gave peace between December. agency Hsinhua.
supporting key E~ypt1an de­have priority over Egypt's mili­the two countries precedence The Voice of Vietnam said its Vietnamese troops and Cam­
mands in the dispute with tary ties with other Arab coun­
over the Arab defense pacts. troops wiped out a Chinese bodian rebels invaded Cambod­
Israel, diplomatic sources said tries. Sadat later requested that that regiment and two battalions in ia in December and set up a
yesterday. 
Sadat has demanded the Pale­be revised. He also has long the hilly province of Lang Son on pro-Hanoi government in Jan­
Spedfically, the sources said a timetable
insisted on for
stinian timetable. He also has Tuesday, but did not give the uary to replace the ousted Pol
the Carter administration 
insisted on revision of a treaty Palestinian autonomy. exact location of the fighting. Pot regime, which was allied agrees with Egypt that a one­Israel objects to both de­
provision that gives peace with A Chinese spokesman, who with China. 
year timetable be set for estab­
Israel precedence over Egypt's mands. asked to remain anonymous, Hsinhua said neither Viet· lishin~ Palestinian civil auto­
promise to aid other Arab Begin, who arrives this even­dismissed the Vietnamese nam or its ally, the Soviet nomy m Israeli-held territories. 
countries ifthey are attacked by ing for critical talks with Presi­claims on Chinese casualties Union, would acc..:pt a mutualUnder the U.S. proposals, Israel. dent Carter, does not want the and declined to reveal the withdrawal because "the pup­Egyptian President Anwar Sa­actual number of casualties. pet re~ime the Vietnamese~reaty linked to the Palestiniandar and Israeli Prime Minister the U.S. formula, presented 
ISSUe. In Tokyo, the Japanese news authoriues have just proppedMenachem Begin would agree by the two sides by Secretary of 
agency Kyodo, said. it ha~ up in Phnom Penh would to the timetable in an exchange State Cyrus R. Vance last week Also, Begin wants peace be­learned from sources to Hano1 swiftly collapse ... their ambition of letters that would be part of at Camp David under tight 
tween Cairo and ] erusalem to that fierce fighting was going to dominate Southeast Asiathe treaty package. secrecy, rrovides that Egypt have priority over other Egyp­on in the Lang Son area. The with Soviet backing would not
The sources, insisting on an-and Israe reserve their rights tian pacts. 
sources were quoted as saying 
[contin11ed on page 11) 
-~----------------------------" 
-~----------------­
News in brief 
Chavez urges boycott ofChiquita bananas 
EL CENTRO, Calif. (AP)-United Farm Workers leader Cesar 
Chavez has called for a national boycott against Chiquita
brand banana!' in an apparent move to pressure Chiquita's 
parent company, 'United Brands Co., into meeting the 
striking umon's wage demands. United Brands owns 
SunHarvest Inc., one of 11 struck lettuce and 'produce 
growers. Negotiations with a growers's b!irgair~.ing 
commtttee were to resumeJ·esterday for the ftrst ume smce 
last Thursday, Chavez sai .. However, he added that the 
UFW's position ··won't be rearranged, that's playin_g 
games." The growers have refused to budge from thetr 
basic three-year, seven percent per year wage mcrease offer. 
The UFW IS demanding a 40 percent increase in one year. · 
Packagingplant collapses causing severalinjuries \ 
NOBLESVILLE, Ind. (AP) A partially completed addition to a frozen food packaging plant collapsed "like dominoes" yesterday, killing one man and injuring four others, authorities said, One of the injured workers, who was not identified, was reponed in surgery at a hospital. The other three, including one who was trapped in the rubble more than an hour, were treated for minor injuries and released. Cause-of the incident was under investigation. Plant manager Allen Cling said steel beams shifted about 11: 10 
a.m. EST, causins the roof on the concrete-block structure to cave in and sendmg tons of concr'!te and steel tumbling to the ground. 
&rthquake shakes .~.4./aska 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska (AP)-A strong earthquake shook areas of Alaska from Juneau to Anchorage yesterday, but therewere no immediate reports of damage. The National Earthquake Information Servtce of the U.S. Geological Survey at Golden, CO, said preliminary indications were that the quake registered 7. ~ to 8.0 on the Richter scale. The Palmer Tsunami Warning Center near Anchorage said the epicenter was 100 miles northwest of Yakutat. A seismolo~ist with the Geophysical Institute at the University of Alaska s Fairbanks campus, Steve Estes, described the quake as a "very strong, major earthquake.'' • 
Solar Cycle goes 30MPH 
LOS ANGELES (AP)-It may not go vroom-vroom, but Jeff Dunan's Solar Cycle gets him there. Powered by the sun, which activates a 11/z horsepower electric motor, Dunan, a part-time photographer, can go as fast as 30 mph on his odd-looking, bucket-seated contraption. "It's like an electric kayak," he said Tuesday. "Once you're in it, it's like sitting in a shoe.'' With gasohne rationing a renewed toi>ic, Dunan believes the time is ripe for full-scale production of a ~~-mph solar cycle that includes a comfortable bucket seat, a radio and a stereo cassette player--all for about $2,200. 
Weather 
A ~0 percent chance of snow, rain and sleet, ending today. Highs in the upper 30s. Partly cloudy tonight and tomorrow. Lows toni~ht 10 the upJ?er 20s to the low 30s. Highs tomorrow 10 the low to mid 40s. 
~ pm --DINNER • for all french students and professors, 
sponsored by SMC french dept., WEDGE ROOM• SMC 
DINING HAll.. 
7 & 10 pm -· FILM* "the godfather," ENGR. AUD. 
7 pm --LECTURE* "the meaning oflent", fr. john ~allen, s.J., sponsored by the howard hall religious commtssion, HOWARD HAll... 
7:30pm--AMERICAN SCENE CULTURAL SERIES* "The affects of child abuse on the developing child,'' ray e. heifer, m.d., mich. st. u., CARROL HALL-SMC 
8 pm --LECTURE* "west african experience & presentation," william tracy, nd senior, sponsored by student activites office, UB. AUD. 
8 pm --LECTURE* "when hitler was winning," prof. john 
Iukacs, chestnut hill college, sponsored by dept. of history, 
GALVIN AUD. 
8:30pm·-HOCKEY* nd vs wisconsin at madison 
9:30 pm--SOPH. UTERARY FESTIVAL NIGHT, NAZZ 

Notre Dame has accepted .$211 ,669 in awards for the month of January to support individuaf faculty research projects, facilities and equip­ment, and innovative educa­tional and service programs, according to Robert E. Gordon, vice president for advanced studies. 
Awards for research totaled $152,073 and included: --$68,077 from the Narional lnstitutes of Health (NIH) for structure-function studies on plasminogen and plasmin by Francis J. Castellino, professor of chemistry. --$32,011 from NIH for studies of information transfer-enzyme activation and regulation by Thomas L. Nowak, associate professor of chemistry. --$20,000 from Til Corporation for studies of the inactivation of mutagens, carcinogens, viruses and bacteria by ozone, by Gary 
R. Burleson, assistant professor of microbiology, and Morris Pollard, chairman and profes­sor of microbiology and director 
... Nestles 
[continued from page 1] 
Reid said that the implemen­tation probably wouldn't affect dormitory foodsales operations very seriously since there are so many competitors to replace Nestle products. 
While Van Wolvlear did anti­cipate the implementation of the boycott he said that he did not anticipate an "official pub­lic statement'' to accompany it. He explained, "It won't be necessary since our actions will show that we back the interest of the students." 
f-The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Dave "Sport" Brosh Asst. Night Editor: Patsy Campbell, ] ohn Smith Copy Readers: Mare Ulicny, 'Fim]oyce Layout Staff: R~ed King, Pat Corey, Rosemary Mills 
Editorial Layout: Tina Ter­laak Features Layout: "Cosmo" McKie/ Sports Layout: Paul Barry Mullaney Typists: lisa DiValen.o, Tom Pipp, Beth Willard, Pete McFadden EMT: Mary McCauley Day Editor: Kate Kzlkuskie Ad Layout: Matt DeSalvo Photographer: Dave Rum­bach . 
The Observer ]USPS 598 920] is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year [$10 per semester] from The Observer. P .0. box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Buy Classifieds ftom 
The Observer 
-----------~-------~------
Timrsday, March 1, 1979 -page 2 
Awards reach $200,000 
ND r~eceives research funds 
of Lobund Laboratory. --$17,485 from the General Motors Technical Center for studies of dust collection by fabric filters in an electrostatic field by Teoman Ariman, assoc.. iate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, and 
..Stuart T. McComas, professor 
of ~erospace and mechanical 
eng10eenng. 
-·$12,500 from the Cancer 
Society ofSt. Joseph County for 
studies on a new treatment 
agent for metastatic cancer by 
Pollard. 
--$2,000 from Miles Laborator­
ies, Inc., for care and mainten­
ance of ~erm-free animals for 
research 10 Lobund Laboratory, 
directed by Pollard. 
The U.S Office of Education 
1 . · 

_
I ~. RIVER CITY . I 
I~-.J RECORDS I 
I 
I I 
1 South Bend's Largest Record 1I and Tape Selection I 
I I 
I $1.00 OFF 
I coupon I 
I I 
$1.00 off any album or tape with this coupon. Limit I. Now
I thru March ll. Not good ory cur-ours, imports or or~er sale items. Coupon must be pre·senred before purchase ts rung into cash register. 
I 
eND-SMC check accepted for up ro $20.00 over purchase amount.
I 
e17 ,000 albums and tapes in stock now!I .why wait to choose from a small selection? I River City Records probably has it in stock
I now. I I RIVER CITY RECORDS II )0!J70 U.S. 31 North, 3 miles north of campus. Open to ro !0, I1 7 days a week. 277-4242. I 
has awarded $3,963 for a College Library Resources Pro­gram to Robert C. Miller, director of Notre Dame's Memorial Library. 
Thomas L. Shaffer, professor of law, received a $20,000 Lilly Endowment Fat.ulty Open Fellowship for 1979-80. 
The Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry received awards totaling $3 5, 633 for three programs: $33,695 for the Center for Human Develop­ment directed by Fr. Vincent Dwyer; $1,163 for the Notre Dame "Institute for Clergy Education directed by Fr. Robert Pelton and $755 for the Notre Dame Center for Pastoral Liturgy directed by Fr. John Gallen. 
11 I 
The Observer Thursday, March 1, 1979 -page 3 
' 
Carter sends energy plans to Congress, oil shortage 
•
conttnues 
(AP)-Iraq, the world's No. 2 petroleum exporter, and Mexico joined Saudi Arabia on Tuesday in refusing to take advantage of the halt in Iran's oil production. Iran said it will resume exports and auction its oil to the highest bidder. 
In Washington, President Caner said in a broadcast news conference that ''the situation with supply and pricing is serious, but not critical." The Carter administration made public on Tuesday the standby plans to limit gasoline use through possible rationing and other conservation measures. But, Carter said, "We don't have any present intention of implemenung any of those measures.'' 
The conservation plans, which will be sent to Congress today and which could be used only in an energy emergency, include calls for limiting service-station hours on week­ends, restricting temperatures in commercial buildtngs and cutting unnecessary advertising 
lighting. , al oil company, said in Mexico Several nations have raised City. their crude oil prices five to ten
In Baghdad, Tar.eh Abdul 
Karim, the Iraqi otl minister, Saudi Arabia confirmed percent above that level, how­said that while his government Tuesday it would not increase ever, including Kuwait, Qatar, "is against freezing oil J>rices in the price ofoil before an April I Venezuela, Libya and the normal conditions and seeks boost already scheduled by United Arab Emirates. fair price increases, it is OPEC. The OPEC base price is In addition, the Venezuelans 
$13.35 a barrel. · have added 15 percent to theopposed to the iml'osition of 
extraordinary rises 10 extraor­But several other members of price of heavy fuel oil export..:d dinary conditions." OPEC have taken steps to raise primarily to the U.S. East 
Iraq supplies about 4.9 prices and take advantage of Coast. percent of the non-communist Jhe supplv squeeze caused by Mobil Corp., the nation's world's oil and is second only to the cut-off of Iranian supply. second largest oil company, Saudi Arabia as an oil exporter. And Iran, which says it may said Tuesday it would limit It is seen as a radical among soon have production back up to gasoline sales to dealers in members of the Organization of 3 million barrels a day, about March to the same amounts as Petroleum Exporting Coun­half the pre-revolution total, last year. Also in short supply tries. said .it would sell the oil to the is jet fuel with Trans World 
And Mexico, which is not an higliest · bidder rather than Airlines and National Airlines OPEC member, but is througp the consortium of com-canceling some flights 
panies that used to buy it. Tuesday. said it would not match the independent OPEC increases. "We are maintaining our contracts and the prices speci­fied in them and it is well known that Mexico's export production for this year and 
becoming a major oil producer, , _______________, 
I I BUlla Sh€0 \ I 
next has already been sold,'' Juan Aizzpuru, a spokesman I ~ I for Pemex, the Mexican nation­
1 5:t5massanbsuppm ~II .1 
I thts ~Rtbay CC!IIJPUS 1 \ anb €v€RY ~RJbay m1n1Stry 1
United States and China establish complete diplomatic relations ~---------------' 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The elevation of the American' there United States and China com­to full embassy status. pleted the process of establish­The events will be carried out mg full diplomatic relations with a minimum of fanfare, today with the two sides deeply consistent with the more som­divided over the wisdom of ber tone of Chinese-American China's 11-day-old invasion of relations since the visit of Vietnam. Chinese Vice Premier Teng 
TheChinese liaison office here Hsiao-ping just a month ago. will become the Chinese Em­China's decision to invade bassy during an early afternoon Vietnam was strongly protested flag-raising ceremony at which by the United States and has Ambassador Chai Tse-Min will generated fears that the conflict preside. may spread. Despite the stated 
In Peking, Treasury Secreatry opposttion of the United States, 
W. Michael Blumenthal will the Soviet Union has indicated represent President Carter at a it believes Peking acted with similar ceremony marking the Washington's consent. 
Iranian leftists capture US tnonitoring station 
tbousands of oil workers thatTEHRAN, Iran (AP)-Radio ''the word consortium will, with Iran reported last night that the help of Allah be eliminatedleftist mihtiamen have taken from Iran's vocabulary." · over one of a series of monitor­Ayatolla Ruhollah Khomeini,ing sta.tions set up by the who led the nation's IslamicUnited States along Iran's bor­revolution, said the revolutionder with the Soviet Union. 
can succeed only if all foreignThe vague report said only influence in the country isthat the station was captured eradicated.
"recently" and did not mention the fate of the station's staff. In other developments: 
-Khomeini called for human­There were reports in Tehran 
that about 20 American and itarian treatment of any officials Iran personnel had been seized of the deposed Shah Moham­
by the leftist militiamen. mad Reza Pahlavi's regime now under arrest. He said they
A U.S. Embassy source did should receive fair trials fromnot deny the report and said open revolutionary courts.
late last night the embassy "might" have a statement la­Khomeini' s comments ap­ter. The source did not confirm peared to signal an end to 
executions following secret tri­the report that the station staff 
als.
had been seized. 
-The Swiss National Bank dis­The radio said the station was closed it has launched an
located at Kabkan, about 25 miles northeast of Mashad near unprecedented in~uiry to deter­Iran's northeastern border with mine Iranian holdmgs in Swiss 
banks. A spokesman said thethe Soviet Union. The Tehran aim was to counter unrealisticnewspaper Kayhan Internation· estimates of the amount ofal also carried the report and money the shah took out ofsaid U.S. military authorities 
Iran.
had managed to retrieve some -Khomeini predicted voters willof the monitoring equir.ment 
after "long negotiations. ' favor an Islamic republic in a referendum scheduled soon.
Iranian government authori­He also warned the narion 's tiew were not available for press to avoid abusing its newcomment. 
freedom to "poison the atmos­
In a m.:>ve to gain maximum benefit from the nation's oil phere a~ainst the will of the 
people.'
riches, the government an­nounced yesterday it intends to -Despite reports to the con­
cut out a consortium of trary, there is no indication the middlemen resronsible for security of hightly sensitive, marketing most o the country's U.S.-supplied military equip­
oil. ment in Iran has been compro­Hassan Nazih, new head of mised, hi~rh state and defense 
(contim1ed on page BJ
the National Iranian Oil Co. told 
President Carter said Tuesday the Unitec States has expressed to China ''its very firm dis­approval" of China's invasion but added that this should not stand in the way of the normali­zation process. 
At the State Department, Leo­nard Woodcock, chief of the 
U.S. liaison mission in Peking for the past two years, was sworn in as ambassador to China. He said he hoped both countries could "build a stable East Asia,'' and use their new relationship to establish ''peace in the entire world." 
On Jan. 1, the two countries extended diplomatic recogni­tion to each other and the United States severed official· ties with the Republic of China on Taiwan. 
Taiwan and the United States, however, will continue trade, cultural and economic relations on an unofficial bas:is ·throu~h private agencies which wtll open in Washington and Taipei. The U.S. agency will be called 
the American Institute on Taiwan. Its Taiwan counterpart will be the Coordination Council for North American Affairs. 
The two entities were sched­uled to open simultaneously today, but the opening of the American agency will be post­poned because Congress has y~t to provide funding. 
DiNardo to lecture on Sports Law 
Lawrence C. DiNardo, former All-American football player at Notre Dame and South Bend attorney, will present the second lecture in the Sports Law Course sponsored by the University's Law School at 3:30 
p.m. Friday in Room 101. The pro~ram is open to the public. 
DtNardo received an under­graduate degree in preparatory education at Notre Dame in 1971 and his law degree in 1974. He is a member of the St. Joseph County, Indiana State and American Bar Associations and is a member of the firm of Thornburg, McGill, Deahl, Harman, Carey and Murray. 
The Spotts Law Course at Notre Dame is coordinated by Charles E. Rice, professor of 
law 
Positions on the 1979-80 
OBSERVER NOW OPEN 
contact Rosemary at 7471 and submit astatement on the position that you are .'lterested in 
deadline for applications 3:00pm Fri. ,March ] 


The Observer Thursday, March 1, 1979 -page 4 


Every Thursday Pitchers only · 
free admission with college ID 

d 
* 
dance floor

* 
poor-table 


511 S. Mich St. (downtown) 
$1.50 
* OJ Buddy King 
every Fri & Sat night open till 3am. 
Bob Brown andDr. Roosevelt Wzlliams spoke on the African Revolution in Americanin coniunc-
Schlesinger foresees energy cutbacks caused by oil shortages 
(AP) -While American oil companies insist they can handle the current fuel supply squeeze without government intervention, Energy Secretary James R. Schlesinger said yes­terday the government may have to force service stations to close on weekends by this summer. 
Schlesinger also warned of possible mandatory tempera­ture controls in public buildings and $1-a-gallon unleaded gaso­line "within a year or so." 
But Schlesinger told the Senate Energy Committee that "there is no Immediate need"to take these steps unless the supply squeeze caused by the shutdown of Iranian production becomes more serious. 
Alice Mr. Rivli~, the director of the Congresswnal Budget office, told a Senate hearing the Iranian crisis could trigger a ~ajor ro~nd of p~ice hike:; .by 01l-expor~u~g nauons, rais~ng the possibility of a worldw1de 
saying it will reduce shipments 
SM C participates in 
of its Amoco gasoline and ,some chemicals b~g_inning today. Tlie U.5. government got $41 
million in successful bids yesterday for a second batch of
Intercollegiate Game 
Ellen Buddy Saint Mary's Editor . 
Saint Mary's Business Depart­ment was the only wtlmen's college represented last week­end at the Intercollegiate Busi-­ness Game sponsored at Emory University in Atlanta, GA. It was one of 24 colleges and universities from across the country to participate, accor­ding to James Zwerneman, cha1rman of the Business and Economics Department. 
The Intercollegiate Business Game is a simulated situation in corporate management. This year's simulated industry man­ufactured art works, like those that appear in motels, accor­ding to Cathy Barker, a team member and senior business major. 
The Saint Mary's team was composed of three other senior business majors--Ann Giere, Alice Lou and Karen Valente. The team placed second in its division for over~ II case presen­tation in the final competition. 
the game is centered around four major industries which are divided into six firms. Each school's team is assigned a firm, and its team devises a three-year program to manage the firm. The Saint Mary's team's project was Studio Five Inc. 
the team receives the firm's recession in 1980. Arabia and iraq, uav~ ~ ...io Lhey 
'J_'he top congressional econ-will not raise /rices until the omist told a Senate Govern-next schedule increase April men~al Affairs subcommittee 1. that .If the current )0~ barrel:a-More oil companies took day Impact on U.S. od suppltes steps yesterday to_ keep gaso­~ontinues for a year, it would line and crude oil supplies mcrease. unempl.oyment by adequ.ate through voluntary 200,000 JObs and mcrease the allocauon plans. inflation rate 0.4 percent. Mobil Corp., the nation's 
Meanwhile, Iran said it second largest oil company, would sell its oil to the highest said yesterday it was cutting bidder when it resumes ex-by 9 ,percent sales ofcrude oil to ports, rather than to the group refimng customers, retroactive of companies that had been its to Jan. 1. Mobil attributed the customers. Oil analysts say this cuts to ''the uncertain supply could drive the price of Iranian outlook.'' oil up to $20 a barrel, compared Exxon Corp., the nation's to the base price of the Organi-largest oil company, said last zation of Oil Exporting month it was cutting crude oil Countries cartel of $13.35 a deliveries 10 percent during the barrel. first quarter of the year. 
OPEC gave official a~proyal ' On T~es.day, Mobil said it yesterday to separate od pnce would hmlt the amount of boosts by several members of gasoline it sells to dealers the cartel--Kuwait, Libya, beginning today, matching Qat~r and the United .Arab simi!ar moves by Texaco, ~mir~tes. Othe_r nauons! Contmental Oil Co. and Atlantic mcludmg OPEC giants Saud1 Richfield. 
Standard Oil Co. of Indiana 
followed that move yesterday, 
previous 18 months' business drilling sites in the Baltimorestatistics to analyze, and based Canyon off New Jersey. In on this, begins making deci-August 1976 oil companies bidsions to run "its" firm. Every $1.1 billion, but so far only twoMonday, the women sent in­very small sources of naturalformation dealing with the gas have been found in thefirm's problems into the com­
area. 
puter terminals at Emory. Immediate output was provided the following Tuesday, and the 
Tracy speaks 
team members ref:ied again on Thursday morning. This pro­cess began at the beginning of on African this semester and continued weekly until the team's depar­ture for Atlanta. 
culture 
When the team arrived in Atlanta last Thursday, the William Tracy will discuss his members were given a final · experiences in West Africa situation in "their" firm to while participating in a cross­analyze. Their final analysis cultural exchange program was prepared in light of their tonight at 8 p.m. in the Library previous work and the industry Auditorium. The program was they worked in," Zwerneman sponsored by "Operation said. . Crossroads · Africa,'' a New 
The following morning, they York City-based volunteer gave an oral presentation of organization, which U.S. their case analysis to the Ambassador Andrew Young judges. The judges were MBA has praised for its volunteer students from Emory, business efforts and effectivenes~ in executives from the Atlanta " ... shaping the policies of area and professors. from Em-Africa toward the United ory' s MBS school. States." University President 
This was the first year Saint Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh was mary's had been invited to the once honorary chairman of the Intercollegiate Business Game. program. . "These wom~n received many Students from West Afnca good commenrs from the judges and previous Crossroaders will and the people who ran the be present at the lecture and program," Zwerneman noted, available to answe~ question~. addmg, ''Their performance Refr~shm~nts and mformal dis­was so good we will be invited cuss1e;m wlll follow the talk m 
[continued on page 10] . the Library Lounge. 
• 
Editorials 
Thursday, March 1, 1979 -page 5 
P. 0. Box Q Refrigerator fee unfair 
want something new in their Hesburgh slights 
Democracy works Student Government: common sense. The kind of common 
students 
sense that makes governmentat Notre Dame understandable and responsive 
Dear Editor: 
to the public it serves. Dear Editor: The candidates for Student The next time President; Body President all spoke about Hesburgh submits his annual 
As an off-campus student, organizing students around resignation, I propose that it be want to thank the whole issues. I point to this ratifica­accepted. He has lost contact university community for tion vote and show them unity. with the students. His busy making the landslide victory on I show them strength. I show schedule of outside activities is the issue of Off-Campus Repre­them the power of the student used as an excuse to slight the semation possible. I want to voice. I hope the Student Body student body of his precious thank all those who voted in President-elect remembers the time and concentration. Also, favor of this issue for proving to support that this issue has as of late, his busy schedule me that I am not wrong in received, and I sincerely wish seems to havetakenits toll on his saying that a democratic form that this amendment prove ability to communicate. His of government can work and is itself worthy of the tremendous latest communications have the very much alive. support that the students of general appearance of incohe­Not only has this vote of Notre Dame have given it. I see sive babbling. Yet, if Fr. it not as an amendment for Hesburgh's position as a world
97.7% in favor of this amend­
ment proven that students are off-campus students alone, but leader makes him an asset to concerned about their fellow as a vote for a stronger, more the University, he could be unified, student body. named "President Emeritus".
students, but also that the voice This would make it possible toof the studem body is loud and have an acting president whoclear when the issue is reason­could concentrate on improvingable and sound. It is my Leslie M. Melander Notre Dame. · 
opinion that this vote has shown Member Off-Campus that the students of Notre Dame Commission 
Wtfliam P. Melvin 
1Right church but the wrongpew' 
Professor O.'Leary's letter' AJustice Festival' journalism. We suffer, at times, from what of Thursday, Feb. 22, certainly struck the right Vonnegut referred to, in the 60s, as chord; but to thetune of what traditional parlance 'Samanatrophia', that dread disease that might have called the ''right church but the plagued poor Sylvia Rosewater; defined as wrong pew.'' hysterical indifference to the problems of those 
Admittedly, in dealing with the "Justice" less fortunate than oneself" -say it! And ask topic, O'Leary is skipping across mined land, why it's still good comedy. Or, consider the and ski!;' he did. Making "Justice" (or if the people of our ND community who care in varying unmentionable negative 'injustice' might be degrees and could not make the Wednesday employed) a bit more palatable by viewmg the films due to their own Sitzemleben. teach-m as a festival ts certainly the sense in Thursday's letter should therefore provide which this virtue should be experienced and some blubs for the "setting" of the teach-in explored. such as: 
O'Leary referred to Justice as a serious 1) a priest accused the Church of being too "matter", which in turn becomes a "question" concerned with the sacraments and the Spirit and consequently can be"forgotten, ignored or rather than with illiteracy and malnutrition. suppressed in our academic communuy. '' He 2) Mother Theresa was interviewed in noted that oftentimes this term..sugs.ests a ''fast Calcutta; giving her life and love to, e.g., a rather than a feast," that we (ND) "cannot 19-year-old tl.at appeared to have the faculties, escape the more obvious cries of the poor, the functions and dimensions of a worn out dolL oppressed, the disenfranchised,'' and the 3) Questions were brought to the fore, e.g., response, the "cause" for rejoicing therefore how do wcj' ustify our existencce when we in the lies in the realm of discursive discourse, i.e., "rich worl " have 45 times more of the wealth talking about our differences; realizing our than people in poor countries who make up more common "sense of justice," e.g., a feel for the than one-half of humankind. 
"cheap shot". and above all, that there is a 4) People were shown <:atechizing their young "third party, the e:-xistence of which we usually that malnutrition was their source of hurt and take for granted: that we are capable of not evil spirits. . reasoning 111 practical disputes however varied Can we not learn something from this--from the approach.'' them? As O'Leary pointed out the "sense of 
From thi& point O'Leary seems to assume that justice'' is not that difficult to acquire; but some (NO community) derive a "love of embracing and relentlessly tackling the prob­justice," endeavoring poorly to employ Pieper's lems that continually gnaw at the core of the In Tune With the W'orld: A Theory ofFestivityby human fieldand therefore responding to the curiously anrl rather sensationally quoting ~egrees of practical intensity that our practical Nietzsche and Chrysostom and ending on the faculties allow and our overly-trained judgement happy note: "Whe:-re love rejoices, there is san _discern constitutes and enhances a love of festtvity." JUsnce. 
O'Leary"s suggestion for a jusuce festival was No one is "casting the first or heading far from wrong, bur his reasoning was vitiated up the cosmos, or, for that matter, "playing and carelessly meshed. Justice or any symbol of God.'' The real issue here is that the ND justice is both serious and universal, t.e., one community is about a love ofJ"ustice that does whch encompasses all of humanity and therefore not tire of being informed; an when the rights implies the whole of which we are. all a part. of humankind are ravaged we make an "I 
Justice is not bouod to that same academic commitment'' and gather; and therein lies a community talking about differences; and love, a reverence, a method, a reason......for a applying the same academic theories and festival of justice. constructing newspaper articles that are as sterile and stunted as a dried fig to humankind! 
That spacious article was such a p,astoral pablum tt bordered the topic of worthwhile joe Slone 
I would like to follow up Gary 
Luchini's letter about the 
University's $30 refrigerator 
fee with some additional infor­
marion. As a freshman, I was 
unaware ofany such fee's being 
imposed. When I was asked by 
an R.A. to sign a list so the 
Office of Student Housing 
would know who to bill, I was 
surprised and decided to inves­
tigate why the charge was 
being 01ade and whether or not 
it was legal. My research has 
provided many interesting 
facts. 
Fi~st, anyone _readi~g his 
housu?-g contrac.t ~tll nonce that 
there ts no provtston for the fee.· 
The only direct references to any charges are for hall moves, room damage or cancelling of the co~tract by the student. There ts, however, a reference to "all rul('"s and regulations in the Student Manual. '' But interestingly, there is no publi­cation issued by the University entitled Student Manual. · 
Furthermore, I questioned the $30 am?unt. I co~tacted a repre.sentauve o~ lndtana and Mtchtgan Electnc Compan}' who researched t~e questton for me, and determmed that t~e actu~l cost for the academtc year ts at mo.st between ~10 and $16, defendmg _on the stze and make o the refngerator. T~ese figures may also be htgh, though, as they were ba~ed on a figure of 4 cents. per _kilowatt­hour. The Umver~tty . buys power for less than t~ts am?':'nt from I. & M. and m addmon supple~ents _what they p_ur­chase wtth thetr o":n _generaung plant, thus provtdmg for a lower cost pe_r ~whr. . 
After obtatnmg thts dat~, I c~ntacted Mr. Edmund ~nee, Dtrector of S_tudent Housmg. When questioned about the absence of any mention of the fee in the housing contract, he could offer no explanation other than telling me that as far as he knew, the University has made the charge "since day one." I neglected to remind him that when Notre Dame was char­tered in 1844, there could have been no fee since there were no electric refrigerators, and I continued to ask him why there was also no mention of the fee in du Lac, to which he res­ponded by saying that it must have been acctdemally deleted. Also, he told me that I didn't have to pay the fee if I dido' t want to, but I wouldn't graduate with an outstanding balance on my account. 
1o summarize, then, it ap­pears that the University had made a large error. Although I can understand the need to pay bills, the refrigerator fee should be (or is) included in room and board. Further, the University cannot be allowed to assess a charge against students in the middle of the year without mention of it in the contract. Years of doing this does not justify it now. 
Also at issue is the (ap­parently) randomly chosen amount of $30. As I showed 
earlier, this is up to three times more than the actual cost. If the intention of the University is to make a profit by doing this, then something is very, very wrong. If this is not the intention,~ then it looks like . some hetty refunds are due to all students past and present who have been forced to pay the fee. In short, the amount of $30 
is totally unjustifiable. 
Moreover, it appears that the 
University is very careless 1nd 
and, even worse, is uncon­
cerned about it. By the fact that 
a student is r_equired to sign the 
contract wtth the Housing 
Office he or she is bound 
to the ~ontract and has the right 
to expect that the University be 
so bound also, unless both 
parties mutually agree to dis­
solve the agreement. This 
means, then, that the student is 
not liable to pay any fee nor 
accei?t any regulation involving 
housmg not covered by the 
contract. 
In closing, I appeal to therest 
of the student body to join me in 
rectifying this inJustice. The 
student here have shown con­
cern over other problems, but 
this issue is especially impor­
tant. The University ts hitting 
where it hurts most: in the 
pocketbook. The students are 
due an explanation and a 
change in the University's 
method of getting things done. 
This is not an emotional issue 
it is pragmatic, moral and legal: 
Hopefully it wouldn't become 
necessary, but the students 
should not even stoi? short of 
legal action agatnst the 
University ifit is warranted. As 
I heard someone say many 
times in this past week, ''the 
student's voice must be 
heard." Now is the time for 
this to happen. 
· 
Lee A. Sender, Jr. 
SU Statement 
We, the Student Union Steering Committee, have failed to reach a decision regarding the nomination of a new Student Union Director. Therules governing the selec­tion process stipulate that a candidate must rereive four out of the five votes possible from the Steering Commirree. and this criterion ha~ not been 
met. Thus, wc havt: Jnidedj to reopen the aprlit anon pro· cess. Any undergraduate! student is invited and encour­aged to submit an application. Applications at('" now available in Student Union offices, and they will be due Monday, March 5. Interviews will take place on Tuesday, March 6. 
Wtfliam Roche Maureen Carney ]erry Perez Gary Luchini } ohn Bonacci 
The Student Union Steering Committee 
enher Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............ Tony Pace N('"ws Ediror ............ Diane Wilson 
_The Observer_ of 
as possible Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........·Steve Odland Spons Editor . . . . . . . . . .. Ray 0 'Bnen Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor. . . . ... john Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chn's Stt'wart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Lang henry Photo Editor . . . . . . . . . Doug Chn.stian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor . . . . . . . Rosemary Mills pt"r published by students of the Column space is available to all mem· Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cacldey Produnion Manager . . . . . . Mardz Nevzn University of Notre Dame and Saint hers of the community, and the free Srum Mary's Editor ...... Ellen Bu#y Business Manag~r. . . ... .John Tu,:k.er Mary's Colkge. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam· News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advenising Managc.-r ........ Bob Rudy 
rdlect the-policies of rlw administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 
Thursday, March 1, 1979 -page 6 
Features 
•
esc Associates tn Portland 
Dear Friend, 
Here it is Saturday night and we were going to go to a movie -but it feels so good just to sit and do nothing for an hour that we abandoned the plan. I remember how it used to feel last year on a weekend night after days of being cooped up in class, in the library, or just in the dorm. You hadto get away -out to dinner, out to a party, out to a movie, out anywhere! Things are different now. I think I can explain why that is; at least I can describe how it is. 
There are five of us who live together in connection with the Holy Cross community here in Portland, Oregon. (That's ore-gun, not ore-a-gone, as we once used to say). Well, actually, there are six of us. Fr. Dennis O'H?re is officially our director and unofficially our friend, companion, and advisor, even though he does not live with us. He's been with us from the start. 
When we frrst arrived in Oregon (an alien land to four of the five of us) Dennis enticed us into his red Volkswagen bus and off we drove to explore the beauty of the state. It was not strictly a sightseeing tour but an orientation to the program, the place, and each other. 
From the splendor of the rugged coast­line to the mystery of the sweeping sand dunes, we talked and planned and laughed and thought about the year ahead of us. 
The year ahead ofus is with a program called Holy Cross Associates. (We are the frrst group to have claimed that title and we know that we will not be the last.) 
Our purpose is to involve ourselves in a year of social action in the name of the Catholic Church. The priests and brothers of Holy Cross are our sponsors Most of these men live at the University ofPortland, a Holy Cross school which is about half the size of Notre Dame. We live in a house that is within walking distance of the campus where we have access to the running tr-ack, the library, conversation with frie-nds, and a mar­velous view off the bluff overlooking .the Willamette River. 
Our work here puts us in the heart of 'the real world' and the work is of every size and shape. Day to day we deal with such a variety of people that is some­times makes your head spin: the very young and the very old; the sick, alcoholic, troubled and powerless. I will try to draw the picture of our group and our work. · 
Mary Fran Heberlein is coordinator of the youth group at Holy Cross parish. She has sometimes six, sometimes twenty-six teenagers who attend meet­ings, wash cars, plan dances and are learning several lessons about friend­ship, spirituality, and common goals. 
Mary Fran has a split personality; her other side is on the campus ministry team at the University of Portland. There she is developing the social outreach program for students in­terested in giving of themselves to others who are in need. There are volunteers who spend time at a home for rroubled girls, some who visit the elderly in nursing homes, others who act as big brothers and sisters. Mary Fran is behind them all with an encouraging word or a creative suggestion. She graduated in Fine Arts from Saint Mary's College and is our artist-in­residence. Yoi.I can tell that she has had a rough day when she comes home and weaves funously without looking up. 

He deals with the junior high to high 
school age crowd through his work with 
the CYO. John is our travelling 
missionary -he has seen more of the 
Northwest than Lewis and Clark in his 
journeys to give leadership workshops 
and retreats, attend seminars and ac­
company a wandering· musician who 
performs for various youth groups. On 
one of his excursions he was in a car 
accident and came out of it with two of 
the best black eyes you have ever seen. 
John has a way o{ going one step beyond 
commitment. 
Val Hornberg has the dubious distinc­
tion of being the only member of our 
house who did not attend school in South 
Bend, Indiana. On the weekend of the 
Michigan football game, while the rest of 
us huddled loyally in front of the TV with 
several CSC enthusiasts, all Val could do 
was shake her head. 
Val is the teacher in the family. She 
wakes up at the ungodly hour of 6:00 a.m. to hop a bus down to Immaculate Heart school where she is in charge of 18 energetic second and third graders. This community school is in a poverty area of the city and runs on a shoestring budget. Lack of money does not dampen the spirit around this place. There seems to be an abundance of smiles, an adequate dose of learning and a terrific amount of love that keeps things growing. My office is in d1e Immaculate Heart rectory, and on occasion, Val and I will sneak away to a nearby park to sit on the jungle gym, eat our sandwiches together and discuss the joys of lesson plans, t1ash­
. cards, and the psychology of seven year 
olds. 
According to Steve Thomas, Portland's 
skid row is nothing like that of the ''Big 
Apple," but there is still a large 
population in the "Burnsidearea''which 
is in need of service. He is doing his part 
to confront the issues of alcoholism and 
poverty in this section of the city. Each 
day Steve rides his bike eight miles 
downtown to the St. Vincent de Paul 
Residence for Alcoholic Treatment. His 
duties there are many-faceted -from 
researching sources of funding to seek­
ing out donations of soap, toothJ,>aste, 
and cigarettes for the center to sittmg in 
on counseling sessions with the resi­
dents. Steve is also a representative on 
the Burnside Consortium, a network of 
"~1/;encies tVI;:Uch is attempting to deal 
Barb Frey 
with the needs of the people in the Burnside area. For rest and relax.ation in his off work hours, Sreve likes to play gallofing gourmet. His specialties are meat. oaf, chocolate cake, and burnt toast. 
Finally, yours truly works as a community organizer with Oregon Fair Share, a statewide citizens' action group. At just about the time everyone else is arriving home for the evening I am preparing to head out to the neighborhood (which has now become 'my neighborhood') for a few hours of door-knocking. My task for the next couple of months is to build a chapter of Fair Share, joinin~ residents together to face some of therr common local prob­lems. The issues range from poor street conditions to a business district which has d~teriorated into a string of sleazy bars and rundown hotels. My personal issue at present 1s the dogs who chase after my bicycle. I have learned that the only way to deal with them is to bark back. The best description of my job is that it is unimaginable, indefinable, unpredictable, and, all in all, incredible. 
We are volunteers who work like made mad all day and come home to share our madness at night. Community life is in integral part of our experience here. The emotional support, questioning, love, and laughter which we give to one another are as essential as the food we share. Ours is a place set apart, a year of work that is far different from the patterns of living to which we had become accustomed. As a community of lay ministers we attempt to hold true to the values of faith, service, and simple lifestyle. It is also a time to think about the larger picture; a time of faith and of prayer, a time to dream about our own future and that of society. 
Is our time in Portland just a year's experiment in commitment and commu­nity? To sit at home with friends on a Saturday night and watch the frr die down 
Is our time in Portland just a year's experiment in commitment and commu­nity? To sit at home with friends on a Saturdy llight and watch the frre die down to white ash is a decision easily made. To live a responsible Christian life is a choice which will take much more time and thought. 
Intellectual Living 
in-tel-lec-tual n. book-nosed person devoid of practic.al knowledge. adj. 1. pe~aining to or having lofty ideas.. 2. betge. · 
Philosophy is an exercise for the mind--sort of like mental push-ups. As you may well know, no intellectual party IS co~lete without a philosophical discusswn and perhaps some crackers and dip. More often than not, such a discussion will have at least one pf,lrtici­pant who will spew out name after great philosopher's name, along with count­less unrelated theories and hy_pothetical situations ranging from the instpid to the inane. It is nearly impossible to extract the least bit of reason from the veritable labyrinth of polysyllabic adjectives and verbs spattered forth by this crazed pseudo-mtellectual. Besides, what he says is usually a crock. Consequently, there is an expressed need for a tell-it-like-it-is intellectual. 
In response to this need, I haye taken the liberty--actually I have rented the liberty with an option to paint--to assemble a smattering of philosophical truths for the enlightenment of the reader. Hence, you will be able to tell it as it is and crush any argument which disagrees with your own. 
Every philosopher is required to ask whether or not there is a God, lest he fail PHIL 101 Throughout 
history, there have been many 
Pat Byrnes 
there is a God, many to say there is no God. The German philosopher, Friedrich Nietzsche, finally came up with what he thought was a resolution to the cont1ict. He said there is a God, but he said, "God is dead." God, on the other hand said, ''Nietzsche is dead.'' The big question is who to believe. To answer the big question, it might be helpful to take first a look at Nietzsche; we already 
[continued on page 7] 
TOP 10 ALBUMS 
1. 
"Blondes Have More Fun" -Rod Stewart (Warner Bros.) 

2. 
"Spirits Having Flown"-Bee Gees (RSO) 


3. 
"Cruisin " ' -Village People (Casablance) 

4. 
''BriefCase Full ofBlues'' -Blues Brothers (Atlantic) 

5. 
"52nd Street" -Billy Joel (Columbia) 

6. 
"Dire Straits" -Dire Straits (Warner Bros.) 


7. "Totally Hot" -Olivia Newton­John (MCA) 
8. "Minute By Minute" -Doobie Brothers (Warner Brothers) 
9. "Toto" -Toto (Columbia) 
10. "Love Tracks" -Gloria Gaynor 
• 
The Observer Thursday, March 1, 1979 -page 7 -Features 
Straight from Monte Carlo 
International Circus Festival Coming 
The International Circus Festiv~l of Monte Carlo is the most prestigious and respected competition of Circus artists in the world today comparable in stature to the Emmys and Oscars of entertainment. 
Founded in 1974 by His Serene Highness Prince Ranier III to perpetuate and acknowledge tht" centuries-old trad­ition of Circus Arts in Europe, the Festival, held each Det:ember, has Benerated international attention during tts short but important history. Award-winning Festival artists comprise the elegant, European-style FESTIVAL \ INTERNATIONAL DU CIRQUE DE IMONTE CARLO SPECTACULAR • coming to the Notre Dame A.C.C. for 
performances Friday, March 30 through Sunday, April I. Tickets will go on sale Monday, February 26th, and are priced at $7.00 and $5.00. 
Throughout the year, His Serene Highness Prince Rainier III and the official Organizing Committee invite outstanding acts from around the world to participate in the annual Circus extravaganza. Each act is carefully selected on the basis of professional reputation and performing excellence. When Festival Week begtns, under an elaborate Italian-manufactured big top by the edge of the Mediterranean, a diverse selection of circus acts perform their polished routines in a highly competitive atmosphere. Three thou­sand spectators and a panel of judges, comprised ofdistinguished members of the world-wide theatrical and academic professions, populate the showgrounds each evening for the exciting three-hour show of stellar, international talent. 
Mter a week of careful observations, including morning conferences and attendance at daily dress rehearsals in an elegant, European-style circus tent, His Serene Highness Prince Rainier III and participating judges tally each partiCipant's numerical score and confer on the final seb:tion ofFestival winners. 
Long past midnight of the fourth evening His Serene Highness departs the judges' luxurious conference caravan and publicly announces their winning selections. Circus artists and owners, 
public visitors from throughout the 
world, and an international company of 
press anxiously await his announcement 
m the chill of early morning. 
Just hours later the winning artists and troupes begin a final rehearsal for the evening gala. As triumphant participants enter the colorful big top. to thunderous applause, the royal family and retinue of judges present a roster of coveted awards including Gold and Silver Clown sculptures, the highest competition accolades. 
While an electrifying atmosphere charges across the festival grounds and the formally-attired audience exchange enthusiastic comments in a variety of languages, the award-winning artists exuberantly J?erform their unique acts for the final ttme. 
As the world's most unusual and exciting entertainment award event, the International Circus Festival of Monte Carlo pays appropriate homage to the oldest form of amusement in the history of mankind. 
Group discount tickets for st"lectl"'d 
---------· .. -----------------------------,..---------------­
Gene Zychowicz 
Stones Roll On 
What band has caused riots and 
violence around the country? What band 
has been under continuous fire from the 
National Organization for Women, the 
NAACP, and the Rev. Jesse Jackson? 
What band's leading guitarist was 
arrested for possessing a small phar­
macy in his hotel ruom? What band's 
lead singer is under suit for $14,000 a 
month because he lived with a woman 
and left her cold? The answer is the 
Rolling Stones. 
Individually, Mick Jagger, Keith 
Ricards, Charlie Watt..'>, Bill Wyman, and 
Ron Wood may be t:alled "stones" in 
every sense of the word. When they 
come. together and start rolling, how­
ever; they comprise the funkiest and 
raunchiest rock and roll band in the 
world. Their ability to forge new inroads 
IX) rock's jungle is unsuq~assed. The Stones have put out conslstently high guaJicy music longer than ttt>st banos nave been in existence. For the better part of two decades, this group has shocked, socked,mocked,and todced the world with its sometimes tasteless but always consistent music. 
lbe RoJJing Stones, however, surpass 
the mete mola of a band. To some they 'are an icon. To others they are semst. To still others they represent everything that went wrong in the sixties; merely adults living in an extended adolescen<;e. 
The driving forces behind this group 
seem to be sex, drugs, and violence. Not 
nec("Ssarily in that sequence. Before I 
had any notion what "Brown Sugar" 
actually was, I found myself hooked on 
their incessant backbeat and sexually 
slurred lyrics. With such blockbusters 
as "Honky Tonk Woman" and 
"Midnight Rambler" the Stones had the 
whole rock 'n' roll world singing along 
with sex and violence. Soon, the Stones 
had such a following that every ensuing 
American tour was a sellout. If it can be 
said that Beatlemaniacs loved the 
Beatles, it may be said that Stones 
freaks lusted after Mick and Co. lt was 
not long before everyone wanted to be a 
Stone. Many groups tried to imitate 
them but always fell short while half the 
lead vocalists in the world imitated Mick Jagger and his onstage antics. 
A band, however, is only as good as irs 
individual rock and rollers. One on one, 
the Rolling Stones can play the rock and 
roll game better than any of their 
competitors. MickJagger, probably the 
most successful man in rock, is by far the 
wlmination of everything a band leader 
should be. His theatncs and public 
image are exactly what his fans want and 
exactly what they pay for. He is annually 
placed in Playboy's list of sex stars and 
he plays the "party till you can't party no 
more' role to a tee. 
Keith Richards, who co-writes all the Stone's tunes is by far, my choice fqr the next rock and roll drug related death. One· rumor has it that when asked why he plays guitar right handed he replied, 
"Because the left side of my brain ain't 
there no more." His uni9ue style of 
milking every ounce of electricity out of a 
guitar ts evidence of his expertise at the 
profession he has made an art. 
Bill Wyman and Charlie Watts have 
held down the rhythm section of the 
Stone's music almost as long as there 
lu!s been a backbeat. These two people 
may well be called the nucleus of the 
band, pacldng enoughi power to fuse 
their metallic rock intO olle solid unit. 
The final rne.rnPer, Rofi''Wood, is the 
newest member 'bf the band. He comes 
from the Rod Stewart band Faces, 
and plays the sexpot role on a par with 
J asger. His gwtar Jicks ·compliment 
Ke1th Richards' half-brained musician­
ship perfectly, while his work on the 
srec;:l pe~ ~tar ~pc:ns otheravenues 
such a$ cot~,g.try anq W('~tern. .(;ountry 
and western!? The Rolling Stones!? 
Yes. _Country a.qd ·;v~stern., disco, 
and eveh cla$sicaL arrangements are 
part of the Sto'nes' repf:rroire. SqJJ, the 
Stones consider themselves putlk.. How, 
you may ask, can al$-rock group as 
capitalistic and publicity hungzy: aS the 
Sto.nes claim to .be punk, the form of ·music:that c_laim~ tobe anti-~very,thing? Well, as Mick Jagg<;r pyts tt, ' It's the thought th~t counts;~; fil\6 _ . 
The earhe~t concepoon of the Rolling 
Stones I have is when some English 
group with an egocentric lead vocalist 
named Mkk, sang a tune caUed "I Can't 
Get No Satisfaction.'' The crux of the 
matter is, the Ap\erican public believed 
this and gave them more satisfaction, in 
every sense of the word, than five men 
would ever need in ten lifetimes. The 
rest is hisroty.. 
With their latest album, "Some Girls,'' the. Stohes continue on their rampage of sex and drugs. Such releases as ''When the Whip Comes Down" and the controversial "Some Girls'' paint a picture of life behind the scenes through a rocker's eyes. Keith Richards tells it like it is with his blockbusters "Shattered" and "Before They Make Me Run.'' Mte.r Richards' arrest for p_ossession of heroin with intent to traffic, the judge suspended the semence, claiming that many artists, such as Van Gogh, led demented lifestyles similar to the guitarist's. These lifestvles, he continued, often serve to inspire the artist to produce quality work. 
And who can forget the summer of 1978? It seems that every time I turned on a radio, ''Miss You'' would come over the air with its haunting lyrics and disco beat. 
Finally, for those people who cannot appreciate the Stones or their punk approach and innovative style, I can only call on Mick J ag~er once again when he sar.s, "I know, It s only rock and roll but I like it...like it, yes I do." 
performances of the FESTIVAL INTER­NATIONAL DU CIRQUE DE MONTE CARLO SPECTACUI..AR, coming to the Notre Dame A.C.C. for six performances March 30 through April 1, are available through the Notre Dame Marketing Club by contacting the A.C.C. ticket office. 
According to group sales manager and Notre Dame Marketing Club president,_ Rick LaBelle, a certain number of performances have been set aside for various groups, including senior citizens and students, who might not otherwise be able to afford regularly priced tickets. 
An award-winmng cast of elite, 
European circus artists from around the 1 world, each an invited participant at the prestigious International Circus Festival of Monte Carlo--comparable in profes­sional stature to the Oscars and the Olympics--will appear in the unique multi-media circus extravaganza pre­sented under the high patronage of His Serene Highness Prtnce Rainier III and produced by Irvin Feld and Kenneth Feld of RINGLING BROS. AND BARNUM & BAILEY CIRCUS. 

Intellectual living... 
[continued from page 6] 
know quite a bit about that God fellow. 
Nietzsche was a disturbed man. A trait generally attributed to the fact that his name was so bloody hard to s_pell, let alone/ronounce. Before he died, he had hope to change his name to "Geoq~e Reeves,'' but no one could appreciate his foresight. Nietzsche, during his younger life, remained convinced that his ances­tors were ofPolish nobility, and when he discovered that he descended from a line of insane butchers, he too rolled into the foam suite (he went nutso). He spent the rest of~s life in a refrigerator fondling a pork lom. 
Therefore, on the God question, we conclude that Nietzsche is dead. 
Another hot topic in the realm of philosophy is the question of free will versus determinism (betting 9 to 5 on free will). B.F. Skinner, perhaps the most n.:>ted proponent of determinism, has been once quoted, "If I want your opinion, I'll give it to you." Socrates, a proponent of free will, would have probably wanted to give Skinner some kind ofretort like,"Oh, yeah?" or, "Says who?' ' in his classic interrogative form. However, he is, unfortunately, dead, and would have most likely spoken in ancient Greek anyway; these are con­siderable impediments to a healthy discussion. The conflict remains unre­solved. Hence, for the moment, the individual is left to decide on his own 
. .
whether or not he IS free, keepmg m mind, though, the terrific expense of modern living. 
As you may well suspect, there are other topics in philosophy that come up in discussion. However, if you are clever enough, you can keep changing the subject until everyone else is too bored to oppose you any further. Neverthe­less, this method of hiding your ignor­ance is not failsafe. Therefore it is highly recommended that you bone up on that which you do not know. In this effort, I advise the reader to take one or more of the following of the following I 
courses. 
"Nihilism for Beginners" 9MWF ''Determinism'' 9Tf11 (This course is required!) "Conversational PhilosoJ?hy" 1Tf3 ''Contemporary Monastic Anarchism'·' 3MWF "Philosophy Made Easy: for engineers and other illiterates" 8MWF 
Other classes are available, but are often more practical in nature (e.g. "Philosophy of the 1956 Red Sox", and "Metaphysics and Plumbing"), which ~enerally makes them unsuitable for mtellectual discussion. 
Before closing, in reference to what to do in the event that you have to support your arguments, let me say one word. 
Lie. 
--' 
~ 
j 

J t I 
r 
The Observer 
Thursday, March 1, 1979 -page 8 
Cheerleaders name new-captains, Muething rem.ains as leprechaun 

SOUNDS 
ElVIS 
COSTELLO 
ARMED 
FORCES 
including: Oliver's Army Accidents 
Will Happen (What's So Funny 'Bout) Peace, Love And Understanding Senior Service 
Party Girl 

COLUMBIA 
STEREO LPS $4 99
SERIES798 
• 
STEREO LPS SERIES 898 
$5.99 

PI CTU R~ D [[EMS ONLY. 
The Hatntnes NotreDatne Bookstore 
nothing ,to do? 
Want to work for the 
OBSERVER? 
~ t'-irt~ng immediately, openings are 
.-:1v~1l~ble on the advertising sales staff. the staffis paid on a 
I I I 
commissionbasis to sell ads 
.. 
it's good experie11ce 
check it out ! ! 
cail Bob at 7 4 71 to set up an interview 
by Ellen Dauber cuts on Friday,-April 6. 
During the days of instruction, 
the prospective cheerleaders 
The Notre Dame cheerleaders will be taught cheers and have announced the selection of movements. The following day, sophomore Amy Olin and junior they will be judged on their Steve Muething as captains for performance of these skills. the 1979-1980 season. Possible judges include cheer­
On Sunday, April 1, they will leaders from other colle~es and begin the week-long series of gymnastics and dance 10Struc­try-outs for next year's squad. tors not affiliated with the Any Notre Dame or Saint University. Mary's student is eligible to try Squad candidates will be out. Because current squad judged on partner stunts, gym­members are not guaranteed a nastics, and their ability to lead position and must reaudition, the crowd in cheers. Dancing there are six spots open for men ability also will be a factor in and five for women. According women's auditions. to a squad quota, at least one of Both Olin and Muething these posittons must be filled stressed ''individual talent and by a black student. spirit'' _as qualities for which 
Muething, who served as the leprechaun this year, will keep that position next season, so there will be no auditions for 
Mayor Kucinich fights 
leprechaun. 
There will be a mandatory informational meeting on March 7 for all students inter­
Ohio's financial plans 
ested in trying out. During the week of April 1, there will be CLEVELAND (AP)-Mayor alternate days of instruction Dennis J. Kucinich, fresh from and audition, with the first cut a triumph at the polls, vowed on Monday, April 2, and final yesterday to fight state efforts 
to take over his city's crippled 
finances and said he would sell 
small-denomination bonds di­
rectly to citizens if necessary. 
.. . Iran 
The tactics were announced fol!owing an election in which [contznued from paf!.e 31 Cleveland voters backed Kucin­department officials told the ich by impressive 2-1 margins 
U.S. Congress on Wednesday. in ratsing taxes and retaining And Khomeini tried to mend the Municipal Electric Light fences with Iran's military by System. It was a resound10g announcing his opposition to a vote of confidence for the Communist plan for replace­maverick Democrat, who barely ment of army with a "People's survived a recall attempt last Army." summer. 
Nazih told The Associated The ~ayor said h~ will. ca~­Press that Iran is prepared to pal~n 10 every maJor ctty 10 
deal on an individual basis with Oh10 to influence the legisla-· companies in the consortium ture to reject Gov. James A. that sold 80 percent of the 5.4 Rhodes' plan to create a nine­
.million barrels Iran exported member control board to super­daily before the revolution. But vise the city's spending practi­any arrangement would not ces and restore investor confi­include the 18 cents a barrel dence in Cleveland. discount given to the consor­''Although the people of tium by the shah. Cleveland won yesterday (Tues­
The implication of Nazih's day), it appears greedy corpo­
statements was that Iran will rate interests are now workmg 
take over foreign sale of its oil on another from, Columbus, 
and that the consortium compa­Ohio," Kucinich told reporters. 
nies will be able to buy petrole­''They will attempt to ride back 
um only as direct customers. to the city on a Trojan Horse 
built by Governor -Rhodes. 
Social Security refuses to credit worker's accounts 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The Security. Social Security Administration Questioned about the wage disclosed yesterday that it has reporting problem, Ross main­been unable to credit nearly $69 tamed that it is unlikely any­billion in wages to the correct one's benefits actually have workers' accounts because of been reduced. He cited checks identification problems dating that rus agency makes at retire­to 1937. ment time on a person's earn­
The problems, which mean ings record. that retirement benefits for the "I'm not saying there affected workers could be re­
couldn't be a rare instance duced, stem from inaccurate or where somebody got less, but it would be a remote case," said
incomplete earnings reports Ross, who stressed that the loss filed by employers or the self­amounts to 0.7 percent of the.
employed over the years, Social 
Security Commissioner Stan­$9.7 trillion in wages that have ford G. Ross said. been creditied correctly. Ross said he has taken steps
''Usually these incorrect 
that will reduce the uncreditedwage reports are for short-term earnings in what the agencyand transient labor, such as terms its "suspense file" byrestaurant workers or car wash $3.5 billion.
employees," he added. 
The agency has handled 10 
He said he did not consider billion wage rerorts since 1937 the uncredited earnings ''a and credited al but 142 million skeleton in our closet.'' But he correctly, Ross said, seeking to expressed con.cern about a Har­put the accounting ,problem 10to ris Poll that found 40 percent of perspective. The Items in the workers doubt that they will suspense file average $486 ever get benefits from Social each, he said. 
the judges will be looking, adding that they want "stu­dents who really want to lead the crowd." 
However, performance is not the only criterion for the selec­tion. Before the ftnal cut, remaining candidates will be interviewed by a panel of judges. During this interview, which accounts for approxi­mately 25 percent of the total evaluation, the judges will be looking at the student's school spirit and enthusiasm for cheer­leading. 
Muething hopes for a large turnout at the try-outs, urging students "not to be afraid to try out. We're hoping to get all the students involved.'' 
They will attempt to take it by hook, having failed yesterday to take it by crook." 
Kucimch has alleged that corporate interests tried to manipulate Cleveland residents into selling their electric sys­tem . 
The rna yor seeks adoption of legislation with less restrictive state controls on the nation's 18th largest city and a plan to enable Cleveland to borrow money using either the state's credit or its own. 
"His (Rhodes') kind of help is the kind of help you get from someone who pulls the plug on a respirator," Kucinich said. 
If Rhodes is successful, how­ever, Kucinich said he is pre­pared to have the city sell $15 million in tax-free bonds to the general public in denomina­tions as low as $100, rather than rely on the state's help. State approval would not be needed for the bond sale, according to the mayor. 
Cleveland, which owed $14 million to six local banks and must either pay or refinance $25 million in notes this year and make' good on $41 million in funds missing from receipts of previous bond sales, had been threatened with bankruptcy. But Kucinich said the 50 per­cent payroll tax increase will end the bankruptcy threat. 
The tax, which will add $100 to the levy on an annual salary of $20,000, takes effect today and should bring Cleveland $25 million in the remainder of this year. 
Comm.Club elects new officers 
The Communications Club of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's recently elected-their new com­missioners, according to Pat O'Brien, Public Relations com­missioner for the club. 
Sophomore Phil Johnson is the faculty commissioner and the academic commissioner is Mary McNeany · Jim Suddus has been elected career planning commis­sioner and the social commis­sioner is Brian Conaty. ­
the club is o,pen to anyone who is interested rn communicatons, 
all  are  encouraged  to  join.  
Anyone  with  questions  should  
call Pat at 4885.  

The Observer Thursday, March 1, 19 79 -page 9 

BUDWEISER SKI SWEATER 
Anheuser-Busch Gifts • PO. Box 24297 • Houston, Texas 77029 
1 want to buy a Budweiser Ski Sweater. 
Enclosed is $30.00 (check or money order) for each Bud@\ Ski Sweater 
indicated below. 
Mock turtle neck only style available. 
(Texas and Florida residents add applicable sales tax.) 
S (36-38) 0 M (40-42) 0 L (44) 0 XL (46) 0 
NAME ______ 
ADDRESS------------..··----· CITY/STATE -----------·--------__ZIP (Allow 4 weeks for delivery. Void where prohibited by law.) 
The Observer Thursday, March 1, 1979 -page 10 
~ .. SMC 
ACROSS 28 Jacques-50 Slanted 18 Soap opera, 1 Spanish inn 29 Harbinger 51 Verse form for one 
7 Hebrew 30 Gloomy peal 53 Renown 22 Tumer month 31 Sidedish 55 Nobel's 23 Basics 
The Daily Crossword 

[continued from page 4] 
bacle next year. " 
The Saint Mary's team as sponsored by a new campus organization, the Women's Management Center. The busi­ness game is under the aus­pices of such corporations as Coca-Cola and Sears Roebuck Co. 
"It was good to see the Saint Mary's Business Department involved with such competitive schools and do so well," Barker commented, adding, "We had a good time, but we also worked hard." 
11  Cheerlead­ 33 Neighbor  invention  24 Priam's  
er'syell 14 First game 15 High dud­geon 16 Greek letter 17 Sci-Fi writer 19 Filial descendant  of Ga. 34 Word part: abbr. 35 Ms. Harper 37 Make clothing 40 Supplicate 41 Billet-doux 43 Louisiana dialect  56 Sci-Fi writer 60 Street: Fr. 61 Suiti:o­62 Shaped 63 Atop, to a poet 64 Spanish painter 65 Lies dor­ fortress 26 Sci-Fi writer 29 Metal waste 30 Painter Paul­32 Explorer Hedin 33 "-Easy Pieces"  
20 Unfresh 21 "Trinity" locale  46 Stickum 47 Norse king 48 State with  mant DOWN  36 Carpenter's tool 37 Aloneness  
23 Mass. town 25 Flightless bird  force 49 Onceupon a time,  1 Taro gruel 2 Goddess of the harvest  38 Inclusive abbr. 39 Certain  
27 Wings old style Yesterday's Puzzle Solved:  3 Empty bivalve 4 Novelist  yarn 40 Reynolds 42 Well-known  
-France 43 Fidel 



5 Transferable 44 Way 
design 45 Harlequin 
6 Russian sea 46 More drab 
7 "Exodus" 49 Growing out 
character 50 Organic 
8 Hesse novel solvent 
9 Greek mar-52 Levin and 
ketplace Gershwin 
10 Dream: Fr. 54 Rotating 
11 Used car pieces 
deal 57 Wager 
12 Having no 58 Congress-
keynote man: abbr. 
13 English 59 Distances: 
composer abbr. 
... Salimando 
[continued from page 12] 
was like fencing in the finals of a tournament," Salimando ex­plains. "So fencing in matches almost seemed easy since I had faced the toughest competition already in practice." 
While the Irish and Salimando 
[continued on page 11] 
Molarity 
YES I'M ONLY A5!1JDf}JT­BUT IF IT WEREN'T FoP. .571Jl>D}TS /HER£ WOULD B£ 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
Michael Molinelli 
at::4Y, SPRJN6-MR. f)UJ(C, THC 
F/ElJJ, ~ fQ./0/AJS YOU 70 813 
EXAcny oo AN N:TIC1J/.If!C t?e-P£P.Sl>N:S CHAKACTE.R. ·YET 
'rOtJ TALK OF BUILDING A 
Wf HAVE FEELJNfiS, 
HOPES AND PRDBL£115. 
YOU TRY TO BREAK OUR 


COLLEGE GRADUATES 
DON'T··TAKE CHANCES WITH YOUR PARALEGAL CAREER­NOT ALL LAWYER'S ASSISTANT PROGRAMS ARE THE SAME 
A Roosevelt University Lawyer's Assistant rep­resents the mark of quality and acceptance in today's legal community. 
If you are a college graduate and qualify, why not give yourself an advant~ge by attending R,ooseyelt Univer­sity's Lawyer's Assistant Program wh1ch rs fully ac­credited by the American Bar Association. 
Since the Fall of 1974, 1,250 graduates representing over 230 colleges and universities have chosen Roose­velt's Lawyer's Assistant Program for their career training. 
Specialize in: Corporations-Estates, Trusts and Wills -Litigation-Real Estate and Mortgages-Employee Benefit Plans*-or become a Generalist*. 
Over 325 Jaw firms, banks, corporations and govern­mental agencies throughout the United States have hired Roosevelt graduates. 
*evening proaram only. SESSIONS 
o Spring Day/February 12-May 4, 1979 0 Spring Evening/March 13-August 25, 1979 o Summer Day/June 11--August 31, 1979 o Fall Day/September 24-December 17, 1979 o Fall Evening/September 11, 1979-March 1, 1980 
Recruiter in Placement Office. March 15, 19 79 
---------SEND TODAY -------...... ­Lawyer's Assistant Program 
I
ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY (312) l41-3882 
I
430 South Michigan Avenue 
I 
Chicago, Illinois 60605 If 19 
I 
Please send me information ort Roosevelt's Paralegal Program. 
I
0 Spring Day Program 0 Spring Evening Program 
I
0 Summer Day Program · 
I
0 Fail Day Program 0 Fail Evening Program 
I 
Namet---------------------------------­
I 
Address Phon 1 
City State Zip I Roosevelt UniversitY. admits students on the basis of indi-I 
vidual merit and w1thout regard to race, color, creed, sex, or 1 
~~~~~~~~~-----------------J 
---------...---,
~eeting of all1 
members of Toronto Exchange 
Tonite-7:OOpm 
~ 
LaFortune 
1---~~~22!!1---J 


IF YOtJU CIJ+fC TE5T!FY /JI3Foi?C 7HI3 Jl/PtC/A/?:1 CIJM+I!TTU HliAI?IN65 ON GUN CONT/i!OL, ()(J( LA/JJYCRS 
TAKE CAI<E OF Yal~ L/TTI.e
t.eM UIITH THe/J.A.'s 
"' 
Notre Dame Florist Shop 
Now Taking Otdets 
fot morissey Sophomore Breen-Philips Formals 
call 288-0206 ftom llam to Spm 
7pm to llpm 
Lowet Ptices Than 
Town! 
r Fox's, 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS JEWELERS SINCE 1917 Town & Country and Concord Mall, 
10-9 Black_mond 's, daily, 9:30-5 Special 15 °/o Discount On 



The Observer Thursday, March 1, 1979 -page 11 
... Salimando ... Vietnatn 
[-;;;;;;;;,uedfrom page lOJ 
have beC'n succesful so far, the tough part has only just begun. Notre Dame's captam in the foil pulled a hamstring muscle against Wisconsin and had to miss some of last weekend's exciting action. 
"It was very frustrating be­cause:' I've waited four years to fenu: in the number one slot against Wayne State (who NO narrowly defeated 14-13) and I got injured for the first time in my career," confides Sali­mando. "I was envious of the substitutes, but I still felt all the excitement when we won." 
Salimando missed his chance to meet Wayne State's defen­ding National Champ, Ernest Simon. Irish junior Andy Bonk, who share the number one spot with Steve, handed Simon a loss in that match. 
''The injury may work out and it may not,'' said Salimando. "I'm not worryin~ about mis­sing some practice because fencing is so much a mental 
Classifieds 
game that if your have confi.. dence that you will win, you're halfway there. 
"I will try and practic(' again next week. The Great Lakes Tournament will probably de­termine whether Andy (Bonk) or myself will fence in the Nationals to be held at Prince­ton." 
Whether "Spanky" Sali­mando is in gear or not, you know that With his positive attitude leading the Irish team, half their battle is already won. 
Notices 
Steal your facet I Friday night Senior bar 9-1:30 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
Student loans SID-$150 one percent Interest due In 30 days Lafortune basement 11:30-12:30 M·F. 
Gay Students of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Gay Information line 8870 Fri. March 2 10 pm·Midnlght Sat. March 3 10 pm-Midnight or write P.O. Box 206 
Save your Saturday afternoon for the Alumnae seminar, March 3 1·3 p.m. In the Library Auditorium. Stimulating discussion about life after Notre Dame with women who've experienced it. 
Contlct Lena Waren. Slvt on bnmd name hlrd or soft lena aupplln. Send for 11'11 llluatrlted Cltllog. Contact Lena ~f~l11, Box 7453, Phoenix, Arizona 
ATTENTION ALL LOGAN VOLUN1 lEERS AND INTERESTED STUDENTS! This Friday night, March 2nd, from 7:30-10:00 p.m., Is the very first Star Wars dance at Logan Center! The dance Is held In the cafeteria, with a great live bnd, fantaste munchies, and a good time for all. So come Friday night and help the mentally handicapped enjoy the dance. and boogie down. 
Volunteers needed at 1:45 a.m. Satur­day, March 3rd. to help score and time at the Indlana State Special Olympics basketball tournament to be held at the 
A. C. C. Help the kids In the basketball tournament have good and fun games! 
Saturday rec Saturday 9:()()-11 :30 a.m. Logan Center. Bowling Friday afternoon· 
3:20 p.m. NO library Circle. Questions call Mike 1371 or Sue 4-1-4832 
Jim O'Brien features Be-Bop Deluxe "Axe Vlctum" tonight. 

ost&Found 
Lost: brother lost gold Michigan State class ring last Saturday night at hockey game at ACC. Ring was lor class '76 with green stone. It has sentimental value. Call 8410 
Cathy Perreault P.O. Box 662 LeMans, Room268 
Lost: at Gulseppe's, Sat. night, 
1. 
an open, tie at neck, off-white sweater and off white pair of mittens. 

2. 
a SMC keychaln with a SMC I. D. and two keys on it. 


If found, please call Cathy Perreault at (219) 284·5168 (LeMans) $5 reward! 
Lost: one crutch outside of the Library about a week and a half ago. If you've seen this crutch alive, call Mike at 1678. 
Lost: mx green rugby jacket at Gulseppe s fast Saturday, Please If you've found It, return II. I need It for the Ireland trip. Tim 1445 • Reward 
Found: Georgetown U. class ring call 1088 and Identify. 
Lost: Tl SR-50 In sectln two of East Carolina game. Call Brian at 8700 
Found: calculator (describe) Library park· lng lot Call Kevin at 272·8580 
Lost: gold watch on blue striped watch· band· somewhere between the laundry and Lewis. I! found, pluae call G11lynn 13415. 
Lost: to anyone who has or who has seen my Nlke gym bag · keep the bag but please return my books and notes. Call 1946 or 204 Fisher. 
Lost: Saint Mary's I.D. near O'Shag, Haggar or SMC road to LeMans. Call Suzane at 4-1-4407 
Found: A gold bracelet. Found In Rm. 421, Admin. Bldg. on 2126/79. Call 2128 or come to 216 Lewis to Identify. 
For Rent 
Walk to campus. 6-bedroom house for rent this Ill. Furnished. Nice • call 272-1729 after 7:00 
Furnished lour bedroom house for rent for next school year, couple blocks !om campus 2n-3604 
House for rent 3 blocks golf course $75 mo, fireplace available Sept. 233-1329 
Wanted 
OVERSEAS JOBS ·Summer/year round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc. All fields, $500-$1200 monthly. Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free lngo.· Write IJC, Box 4490-14, Berkeley, CA 94704 
Need ride to Chicago March 2nd will share expenses Call SMC-4389 or 5132 
Desperately need ride to Florida for one or two. Call 4·1·5121 
Need history of U.S. Foreign Polley textbook. Call Tim, 1003 
Need ride to Buffalo or Niagara Falls for Spring Break. Will share In all expenses. Call Joan at 8037. 
Need ride to Dallas for spring break. Call Mary Meg at 8037 
Need ride to Long Island for spring break. Wlll share expenses. Call John at 3507 
Wanted: Ride to Chicago this weekend. Will share expenses. Call Adrienne 189-1572 
Need ride to Hartford, Ct. area for spring break. Want to leave Wed. afternoon, but will accept most anything. Please call Marybeth. 288·9049 
Need ride for 2to Ft. Myers Florida over break. Can leave Wed. Call Brian 1423. 
Need ride to U. of Mich. on March 2 and ride back after the game of the 4th If you can help call Mike 3889. 
CINCINNATI If you're going In that direction March 2 and coming back March 4, We'd like to go with you. We'll share driving, expenses and provide witty conversation. Call Mo. 6369, or Joan, 8148, so we can be there for our friends wedding. 
Need 1 ride to the west coast of Florldl for spring break. I want to go homtll 17662 or 14603 PLEASE! 
I MISS MINNESOTA! and I won't see St. Paul again unless some kind soul gives me a ride for spring break. Will share driving and expenses ·Aileen 3749 
Need ride to/from east coast Fla.· Vero Beach are or more South. Can leave 3/16, return 3/24,25,26. Will share driving, expenses. Maryann 6859. 
Need ride to Chicago this Friday Call Mark 1863 
Help! Need ride to Lawrence, Mass. for break can leave Wed. March. 14 will share expenses Tony 1423 
Need ride close to Bronx and back for break Call lrene:6733 
Two girls desperately need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale during spring break. Please call Judy 4·1-4444 
Ride wanted to Buffalo, Friday, March 9. Share driving and expenses. Call Mark at 
am 
Need ride to Chicago. March 2. Call Dusfy 4·1·5183 
I need ride to I.U. Bloomington. Friday, March 2. Will share driving and expenses. Call JB at 1161. 
Need ride to Cincinnati Friday afternoon, and return Sunday. Will share driving and expenses. Please call Lee, 1618. 
Need ride tor two to Maryland D.C. are for spring break. Will share expenses and driving. Please call Karen 4·1-4522 
My buddyroo and I need a ride to Lauderdale for break. Call Pat 1788 
Wanted: Ride to Chicago preferably O'Hare March 14, afternoon Call Janet 6794 
For Sale 
Must sell!! Video game· low price. My car Is wrecked must get money to fix it. Call1783 for Info. 
• • · Ford Supervan. regular Gas. Captains chairs, western mirrors, roar and side door glass. Ready for conver· slon. $6500 or best offer. Chris, 2n-4292 or 287-7272. 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed, Sat., Sun. 9-7 Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Road Niles. 683-2888. 
Beautiful Bassett Puppies, 6 wks. old, AKC, papers, shots, wormed, $135. Profs. 0'Antuono/Gingras 287-2586 
For sale: Ovation Acoustic/electric guitar with case. Excellent condition. $350. Brian at 288-2129 
Tickets 
Desperately need DePaul tlx. Call Mark 1863 
Personals 
Leslie Griffith· Happy Birthday. Hope the next 19 are as good as the first! Ted D. and Mike B. 
He may be a heartbroken little dude but he's going to hurt people In the Bengals 
Rockville Centers little dude Is coming to the Bengals 
After two years and many beers and bowls Its still Mike and Carol 
Dillon residents say a virgin keg Is better than any virgin, period! 
Doug Christian Is Fritz Von Werbel· author of Gadfly: Black Socrates 
Doug ChriStian's hair Is growing back • waybackll 
Attention: friends of 1'111 Lat "-!, party Sat. nita a.P.O.'s by Don, Thorn, John, and Rob 
Ellen· Good luck with the big meet. I'm sure you'II do super. See you when you get bake. 
XXX 
Diane 
LOU ANN MY PRECIOUS: AGELESS IS OUR LOVE ATTESTED TO FROM ABOVE NOTHING WILL EVER IMPEDE THE GROWTH OF OUT lOVE'S SEED. 
NORTON 
Happy Birthday FrannyIll Your face Isn't really that fat. But I figure you 11'1 agross pig. 
Your loving brother. 

[continued from page 1] 
materialize. ' ' 
In Peking, Treasury Secre­tary W. Michael Blumenthal told reporters after a meeting with Premier Hua Kuo-feng that China "must be taken seriously" in its claims thf' war will be short. Blumenthal added that he repeated again the Carter administration's op­position to the war and its wish for a "speedy end" to the conflict. 
Blumenthal's meeting with Hua marked the third time he has criticized the war during the three major functions held so far during his nine-day trade and economy negotiations. 
Reliable analysts in Bangkok said the provincial capital of Lang Son had not fallen to the Chinese. They said Vietnamese civilians had been evacuated from the city, located on a vital highwallink to Hanoi, 80 miles north o the caPital and ;eleven> miles south of the border. 
All classified ads must be recetved oy 5·00 p.m . two days pnor to the 1ssue 1n which the ad ts run. The Observer office will accept classtfieds Monday through Frtday. 10 00 a.m to 5:00 p.m. Ali cla~slftfdS must be pre·paid. either in person or tnrough the mall 
0: 
Is he C·Mac? Leslie, 

A. 
No! He Is the Human Vibrator Happy 19th. Lova, 


MJ, Nltz, Cathy, Julie, Peggy, Lynn To thrse gorgeous, Intelligent SMC girls Happy birthday Lisa, Laurie, and Christy Hurls, 
Sorry-But at least I Remember' things. Strapper-Have agood weekend. Tell B.C. Happy Belated Birthday! hello. Glbb 
M.H., Chuck, Here Is a dime, and-You are the best! Thanks for every· 
thing. There's no place to dance except at the K Nancy. of C Disco Sat night 9·2 am 
LaFortune Is being taken over by bald Happy 21st birthday, Eileen. hope you're and sexless people! What next • Jon ready to do some partying tonight! Misch?! 
M.E. Llurle Kellbul Ia blck In ctrcui1Uonl GADFLY: BLACK SOCRATES. Don't delay. Call today It 4-1· 5140. P.S. 
"Bad conceptual modern philosophy. She knows Mouth to Mouth Rnuactta-Yet Intriguing. Also charming. Reminds tlon.---------­me of Splnoza. Makes no sense what· SLAVAK JOEat 3C n.d. apts. we may soever. Valid, but not sound. But to 1111, never see the ghost of Washington Hall nothing Is sound." but It was sure fun seeing you again. 
Beethoven Kokomo and "Hot Mustard" will never 
be the same again.IIndy Stollrw "oops I forgot" Happy Birthday! Happy Birthday! Happy p.s. You better see someone about your 
Birthday/ obsession for cow dung and small cows on 
P.S. Listen to "Stars" by Dan Foaelblrg. toothpicks. "How many years must 1be driven by his dream of love with you?" Dear Rod, 
Ft. Lauderdale will never experience Disco Dan Drexler Bum that mother what you don't have, but we still love downll Seward John Travolta you. 
The Ramrod Fan Club. Dan Meuleman Von Werbel's GADFLY BLACK SOCRATES;"POSITIVELY NO Women's B·Ball Toan, 
BAROQUE. REALLY ROCCOCO." Congrats on winning the District Championship. Good luck In the State To the Moral Supporter, Tourney. Go for It! Thanks for chapter nine. Your "cheerleaders" Morally Supported 
Barty,
Tonlte, for the edification and entertain· Only 3 more daysI You're so cuteII ment of the hoardes, THE ADONIS 'til Then 
returns. His show Is dedicated to an INEFFABLY DELICATE BEAUTY from CPO, SMC. For the BEST music, WSND-640 Sometimes expressing yourself can be 9-11 pm tonlte, let The Adomla I;Je upon, dlfflcuU,.I undQfslaQd. love, you. ·"' •• .... • Starry Eyed 
Congratulations Bill and Bill. Only who Is Dear Wookle,the girl between the two of you? 3 for 31 How about a date Thursday night at 10? Meet me at Moreau Maureen Connolly and Chris Dlgan, Littlest Wookle Happy 20th Birthday I Hope both of you have agroat day! Happy Birthday to the kind BEMO! From Love, tM youngest BEMOETIEI P.S. Sorry Pat about the turtle. 
Crazy Cat peakin' through a lace Ban­Cindy Ann, danna-Friday night at Senior Bar. Artzone. here we come! Good luck In the play·Maryellen, Love, Are you sure this Is your first? Michael 
COMING FRIDAY FRITZ VON WER­ELLEN BUDDY, BEL'S BLOCKBUSTER: BEST SELLERS For what do you deserve a personal?GADFLY: BLACK SOCRATES. DON'T You 'II never get one from me. 
MISS IT. Michael 
Pat and Ollie, Laura, Happy birthday! I hope you stay We love you, as much as you welghllstanding until midnight... 20 lbs. less will take too much away. Love, Two Secret Admirers. Teresita 
Quasi Quad-Adolf Dormmnan on Von Werbll'a Happy March 1!. We made It through GADFLY BLACK SOCRATES: "SEHR the worst month and we are still alive. BUT,AM BESTEN." Yoa for our sideII 
RENEW INC. needs volunteers for just a Diane. few hours for the next few weekends painting and minor repairs on homes In 
Laura-the NO neighborhood. Take an active Ya know what· you're cute!!
Interest In your neighbors. Call Volunteer The Brown-eyed Man!I
Services. 
Kurt,
DANCE DANCE DANCE Thanks for the flowers. You're a sweetAt the Kof CDisco Sat. Nlte at the K of C brother.
Hall 9-2 am Next to the bookstore. 
Love ya, Dear George, 
Usa 
Happy B·Day to you I! I don't think 23 THE MUSIC NEVER STOPS! at the K ofIs too old. Run some hot water! 
C Disco Sat. Nlte 9-2 a.m.
Love, Joan 
MARNIE Is the Queen of "Baby Disco" 
Marnle, The War Is coming. Please marry me. Love, Nell 


Thursday, March 1, 1979 -page 12 
SRorts 

Branning criticizes slumping play as concentration remains the key 
by Ray 0 'Brien thing that you have to get used today at Notre Dame; and that Sports Editor to.'' goes for anything I do. 
Dropl'ed passes, strikeouts Branning, reknowned for his "I enjoy doing things by and m1ssed layups have caused foul-shooting ability freshman myself," Branning continues. many a restless night for an year, has dropped to just over "I enjoy being with other athlete. When they come in 60 percent accuracy from the people, but I don't have to have intervals, known as a ''slump,' charity line this year (lowest on them around to have a good their effects can be staggering. the Notre Dame team). time." 
''You have to hold on to your ''I've been spending extra Like many Notre Dame ath­confidence, spend extra time time working on my shooting," letes, Branning does not limit practicing and concentrating, reveals the junior from Cava­his life to a basketball and a and keep giving 100 percent," naugh Hall. ''The great shoo­hoop. explains Notre Dame guard ters just say to keep on 3hooting "I camt: to Notre Dame for the Rich Branning. and you will get your percent. exceP ~nt education it offered 
Branning speaks with autho­It's hard to do, but if I go and the atmosphere. It's weird, rity on the remedies of a slump three-for-eight I should still because even 10 high school my because he is experiencing that have the confidence that I can real close· friends were all most-dreaded disease which hit my next six shots. It's a outside of basketball. I enjoy scares competitors around the matter of having confidence.'' coming back to the dorm and world. Branning's confidence is quite talking about things other than 
"To be honest, I haven't been apparent on and off the court. basketball. ' ' happy with the way I've been Despite a less-than-par Rich But living in a single, and playing," reveals the Irish floor Branning season, the likeable playing basketball at Notre general.· "It's frustrating and Irish standout has kept things Dame can keep you away from hard to accept, but I try and in perspective. In fact, Bran­the crowd as Branning admits. keel' practicing hard and let the ning's intense but emotionless ''I would say there aren't a lot statistics take care of them­face · stands out when sur­of people that know Rich Bran­selves.'' rounded by his more exuberant ning. Some people say I'm 
In fairness to Branning, most teammates and volatile coach. hard to get to know, but I don't college players throughout the "I hear the crowd, too," he think so. I guess I am a little country would be happy to own admits. "But I try not to lose protective and sometimes look his statistics of 10 points per concentration.'' to see if someone is really game and a team-leading 90 As for the emotions around interested in me as a person-­assists. Few would argue that him, Branning adds, ''I've al­someone who doesn't just want this blue chipper's contribution ways played for volatile, disci­to know a Notre Dame basket­Rich Branning, a picture of concentration, will concentrate on exceeds the measure of simple pline-oriented co&ches. I've ball player." getting back on his game this weekend against DePaul and point production. In view of the played under coaches who have Branmng recogizes sacrifices Michigan. [Photo b_v john Macor. [ fact that most plays start with yelled, so its something I've of participating on a national 
Branning, and his team boasts learned to deal with. team, but insists the benefits a 22-3 record and is ranked "I like a coach who disciplines make it worthwhile. second in the country, the and keeps things under control, "In anything you do, you are California native must be doing and yet gives his players confi­going to have to make a
AP names All-Americans 
something right. dence. choice," he points out. "I miss While Branning seems more "I've had my share of getting seeing my family over breaks 
NEW YORK (AP) -Indiana cans are Mike Gminski of Duke, than content to see his team­yelled at for dumb mistakes. and doings lots of things, but State's high-scoring forward forwards Reggie King of Ala­mates fill in the scoring gaps, Digger tries to inspire you and that's p_art ~fbeing dedicated to Larry Bird is among the five bama and Calvin Natt of North­he is still his own toughest sometimes that takes a kick in somethmg.college basketball stars named east Louisiana, and guards judge. the butt to get you going.'' What about making basketball to the Associated Press All-Vinnie Johnson of Baylor and "I have never experienced a Still, the blond-haired west a lifeitme dedication? America team. The 6-9 Bird is Ronnie Lester of Iowa. slump before," says Branning. coast kid seems reserved both "The way I've been playing, I on the first team for the second The third team is centered by "I mean, I've had bad games, on and away from the hard­don't have to think about that," straight year. Joe Barry Carroll of Purdue. but this is different. It's a wood. laughs Branning. "But I would 
Joining him as a first-team Notre Dame's Kelly Tripucka whole confidence thing and it's "I don't think I'm a loner," he like to give it a shot." returnee is David Greenwood, and Michigan State's Greg disappointing. explains. ''I just try and be an Slumps end, as will Rich the 6-9 forward from Gary Keiser are the forwards. The "In high school the system individual. That's what got me Branmng's. But a few missed Cunnin~ham's UCLA Bruins. third-team guards are Sly Wil-was different. now we play in a here. If I waited for every time shots won't scare the pro scouts 
In addition to Bird and Green-Iiams of Rhode Island and Roy rotating system where you are I wanted to play basketball, I away--at least not as long as wood, two other seniors made· -Hamilton of UCLA. in and out. It's just amental probably would not be pl~ying Branning keeps shooting. the top five in a vote of AP sports writers. They are Bill Cartwright from the University of San Francisco and guard Sidney Moncrief of Arkansas. A sophomore rounds out the 
Salimando makes a namefor himself 
team--guard Earvin Johnson from Michigan State. 
by Ray 0 'Bn'en 
sport and lacks a great deal of was very similar to what our
The second-team All-Ameri-
Sports Editor 
fan appeal. But it is intersting team has experienced in my Who is Steve "Spanky" Sali­
to watch if you know what's four years here." mando? No, he is not a going on.'' ' The spirit of the Notre Dame 
childhood movie star. No, he is Salimando is not your average fencers played a big part in 
not a newly si~ned basketball or Notre Dame athlete. At 5'7" -their so-far perfect season 
football recrmt. No, he is not tall he is not physically impo-which was supposed to be a 
Big lOrace 
upforgrabs 
the new manager of ''The sing. But put that foil in his "rebuilding" year. Deli." hand and he is a force to deal ''The team approached the
by the Associated Press 
Salimando is the co-captain of with. An aerodynamics en-season as a challenge to keep 
One of the tightest races in Big a team that has not lost since he gineering major, "Spanky" up the winning streak and go Ten basketball history winds up arrived at du Lac four years likes the way coach Mike De-undefeated. We never had this weekend with the possi­ago. This team has recorded Cicco treats his unaverage ath-losing on our mind, although bility of Michigan State, Iowa, 102 straight dual wins and is a letes. there was an uncertainty about and Ohio State finishing in a two-time defending NCAA na­''Coach DeCicco has been a just who was going to do the three-way for the champion­tional champion. big inspiration to me. He's job." ship. Yes, he is another in a long Steve Salimando unique m that he doesn't make Missing from last year's Na­
Michigan State, ranked No. 4, line of unheralded fencers at you feel the pressure of win-tiona! Championship team were Iowa No. 11, and Ohio State No. Notre Dame. Although not a But 17 matches later, Sali­ning, emphas1zes your educa-foilist Gerard, Epeeist Bjorne 17, all have 12-4 records and do household name, Salimando is mando and the 1979 version of tion, but still manifests a win-Vaggo (another nauonal not face each other in the final one of several fencers that have the Fighting Irish swordsmen ning tradition. Fencing at champ) and the entire starting two games of the season tonight stepped into the limelight this have proved that "inexr.eri­Notre Dame is not a burden on epee lineup. and Saturday. year replacing last year's stand­enced" does not mean 'un­your life but someting you want "I wasn't worried that we 
If all three sweep their remain­out~. talented." Salimando, fencing to do." would do well," confides the ing two games, they would end Salimando jumped into big in the number one foil position, Salimando has been fencing Notre Dame standout. ''Guys up in the first three-way tie in shoes as the successor to Na­has recorded a 25-1 log in the since his sophomore year in like Gerard and Mike McCahey modern Big Ten history and the tional Champion Pat Gerard in process, upping his career total high school, and is quite accus-kept me in the background first since the 1934-35 season · the foil. In addition to the to 79-16, eighth on the all-time tomed to a winning tradition. because they were so good. But when 111inois, Purdue and Wis­pressure of following the top foil list. "My school won the Suffolk we are provmg this year that all consin shared the title. foilist in the country, Salimando ''I was very disturbed in the County Championship for three those substitutes last year were 
In the event of a ftrst-place tie was voted captain of a young beginning when we didn't get years I was on the team. We talented and we can win with­involVing Michigan State, the team that many believed would any recognition,'' said the Sel­won 67 matches in a row and out the his names. Spartans would get the Big not be able to match the perfect den, New York, native. "But I were 75-2 during that span. the ''By fencm~ against Gerard, it Ten's automatic NCAA. bid• seasons of the last three years. realize that it is such a personal comradery and wir.aing spirit [continued on page wf 
' 
I 
L --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
