--~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
1
, • • abortion page 6 , 
l 

VOL. XIV, NO. 21 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1979 1
, 
I 
Syria loses four MiGs 1 
l
Israeli, Syrian jets duel in Mideast air battle 
BEIRUT Lebanon (AP) -Syrian the sky and then suddenly two 
jet fighters and U.S. -made Isra­more appeared,'' said Ahmed 
eli F-15's dueled south ofBeirut Ab<4II Khale. "All of a sudden 
yesterday in tht" b1ggest air I saw this one falling down with 
battle in· three months Four fire coming from its left wing. 
Syrian MiG's were downed It exploded when it hit, There 
both sides said, and Syria was a huge flame. 
claimed two Israeli jets were Last ] une · 27, Israeli warp­
''hjc." 
planes shot down five Syrian
The Israelis said all their MiG-21's in the dogfight over 
planes made it safely back to southern Lebanon. Western 
base. military sources ~aid all were In Washington, State Depart­downed by a single Israeli ment spokesman ThomasRes­F-15 that was on the ground in ton called the clash a "danger­Israel when the began but was ous development'' and appeal­quick enough to get there in ed on all sides to exercise time to help the slower Israeli 
restraint. jets. 1 
Syria said its MiG-21s scramb­The Syrians, whose 22,000 1 
led to intercept the Israeli troops police a civil-war armis­1 
warplanes after the Israelis tice in Lebanon, have pledged
attacked civilian camps -pre­to defend Lebanese territory 
l
sumably Palestinian -in the against Israeli air attacks. 
~
Damour area 10 miles south of Israeli jets frequently fly over Beirut. The Israeli military Beirut and southern Lebanon command in Tel · ·.:.,. <:aid its on surveillance missions or to 1 
jets, including th< F-15, Ameri­attack Palestinian positions. 
ca's most sophistt..•w::ll tighter, State Department spokesman 
were on a reconnaissance mis­Reston had no comment yester­
sion over Palestinian guerilla day on whether Israel's use of 
bases. F-15s over Lebanon violates 
The planes headed back west U.S. restrictions limiting the 
and the dogfight erupted over aircraft to self-defense mis· 
the foothills near the airport, sions. The Israelis say their by Michael Onufrak thinking about a keg experi­''when some appraisal has been sources said. Lebanon operations are pre-em· Senior Copy Editor ment towards the end of the made by Fr. Van Wolvlear." Both sides reported four Syr­ptive missions to defend aga-· academic year. " According to Roche, this could ian jets went down. Lebanese inst Palestinian attack. Vice-President for Student ''I will monitor the situation come as early as next]anuary. government sources said two The MiG-21 was first intro­closely through close contact In other business, the CLC
Affairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear 
crashed in flames near the duced in 1955 and the latest last night rejected the Campus with rectors and possibly some unanimously passed a proposalairport, and their pilots were version in production was in­Life Council's proposal which unannounced visits to hall party to extend CLC input into the seen parachuting to safety. The troduced in 1970. In contrast would have allowed kegs in hall rooms," he said. University Policies and Resi­other two reportedly went down the F-15 first entered service in '' party rooms'' at the discre­Fr. Richard Conyers, Keenan dence Hall Regulations sections 
further into the hills. A Syrian 1976. The Soviet-supplied Syr­tion of a give-n hall's rector, hall rector and author of the of du Lac. At present, the CLC military communique issued in ian air force has more sophisti­staff and coundl. . CLC keg proposal, said he was only has input towards the Damascus said two Israeli jets cated MiG-23s and MiG-27s, Van Wolvlear also failed to ''disappomted with the decision University Rules and Regula­also were ''hit,'' but did not say but they apparently have not approve a CLC proposal to in view of the fact that the tions section. specifically that they had crash· been using these in their chal· change party room guidelines proposal repres.ents the major­If approved by Van Wolvlear, ed. lenges against the Israelis. which restrict use of party ity opinion of both rectors and this proposal would allow the 
''I saw two planes come into rooms to Friday and Saturday students.'' CLC to exert its influence on 
evenings. The CLC proposal ''I am pleased by the fact that matters of University poliC} 
would have allowed parry rooms Fr. Van Wolvlear bent over regarding such diverse subjects 
to be used on any night. backwards to listen to us. And I as the size of refrigerators 
A voie to appeal the rejection 
ConKressional committee am pleased that his decision allowed in residence halls, 
of the CLC' s keg policy passed leaves the way open for ulti­housing, and student business­
mate acceptance of the propo­
by an ll-5 vote with two es. 
sal. It looks to me more like a The CLC also named a com­
passes details on canal bill 
abstentions. A motion to appeal Van W olvlear' s second rejec­delay than a flat rejection,'' mittee of volunteers to study 
tion was tabled when it received Cnnyers said. the problems of akohol and 
He added that the proposal
WASHINGTON (AP) -Mem­administration. President Car­no supp~rt. _ . . [contr.'-11ed on page 5]
would be submitted again
bers of a Senate-House confer­ter already has signed the According to Student Body 
ence committee agreed yester­treaties and they have been President Btl! Roche, the CLC' s 
day on a new compromise bill to ratified by the Senate. chairman, Van Wolvlear's deci­
carry out final details of the After yesterday's quick appro­sion will be appealed today to 
Panama Canal treaties. val of a new compromise mea­University Provost Dr. 0. Tim­
Moro kidnap suspect
sure, Murphy said, "I think we othy O'Meara. If O'Meara alsoThe compromise replaces a have support for this package -turns down the keg proposal,measure rejected by the House in fact I'm certain we do." his decision may be appealed to last week, John M. Murphy, Murphy said he hofes to win University President Fr. Theo­

captured in Rome
D-N.Y., who managed the canal final House approva of the bill dore Hesburgh.
bill on the House floor, predict­tomorrow. In his memorandum to theed the new version would be 
approved by his colleagues. The new compromise provides CLC explaining his decision, ROME (AP) -Police critically submachine gun bullets wh,.n
for a statement, which is not Van Wolvlear characterized the wounded and captured a found­police returned fire at a car thev
The treaties, which provide for actually attached to the bill, current party room guidelines er of Italy's feared Red Bri­
were approaching in respuu;,~Panama to take control of the 
asserting that the President as "experimental" in nature. ~ades terrorist gang yesterday, to a telephone tip. 
canal at the end of the century, should consider putung the He stared any keg policy that tdentfying him as the man who Also apprehended was Maratake effect next Monday. The canal under U.S. military con­. would be implemented would orgamzed the abduction and Nanni, a woman sought on
compromise bill offered by the trol if Soviet or Cuban combat also be exrerimental, and he slaying of former Premiere terrorist charges. A man
conference panel establishes a troops move into Panama. did not fee it would be in the Aldo Moro, authorities report­
escaped after being chased on
U.S.-controlled commission to Under the compromise, if the University's best interest to ed. 
foot by police. Authorities were
operate the waterway until the president decided the canal was conduct two such experiments Prospera Gallinari, sought by investigating a report that an­
Panamanians take over. 
m military danger he would be at the same time. police on several murder co­other woman was involved in 
The House rejected the last authorized to order canal ad­He did add, however, that unts, was captured after a ~un the incident but eluded capture. implementation bill last Thurs­ministrators to follow directions should the party room "exper­battle near Rome's anctent Gallinari, 28, was hospitalizedday on a 203-192 vote -an from the local U.S. military iment'' prove successful, he Appian Way, officials said. 
[continued on page 5]
embarrassment to the Carter commander. would ''be encouraged toward They said Gallinari was hit by 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 

News in brief 
Adtninist:.-~J-tian predicts in:flation Jluwdown 
WASHINGTON (AP) · The Caner administration is pre­dicting a slowdown in infla­tion toward the end of the year as energy price increas­es abate. Whether that slowdown began in August should be reflected in the consumer price figures being 
released today by the Labor Department. Consumer prices rose near or above 1 percent in each of the first seven months this year. If that pattern holds, the nation could end up with a 1979 inflation rate of more than 13 percent •. the highest since World War II. 

Papal visit inspires suits, bo_ycotl,Jissent 
NEW YORI\. (AP) . Holidays for school children and co­unty workers in Iowa are t~e targets of the latest lawsuits inspired by Pope John Pa!ll II's upcoming visit, and m Washmgton, D.C., dissident priests are urging a clerical boycott of the papal Holy Communion service. Plans for the rare papal visit have also prompted dissent in Boston, where a federal judge will rule today in a suit brought by birth control acti­vists Bill Baird over the arch-diocese's decision to re­serve for persons of i~s choosing 18,000 of the avajl· able seats for a papal M4ss on the Boston Common. 
Doctors opep che:t. in rush with no anesthetics 
\ 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) Operatir.g in such urgency 
they had no time for anesthe­
tics, Charlotte Memorial Hospital doctors cut into the chest of bartender Randy Cook to save his life after an assailant plunged a knife into his heart. One of the doctors halted the flow of blood from 

the heart by holding his finger in the hole made by the knife until stitches could be made. The work moved so quickly that Cook, whom doctors say has a good chance of returning to nor­mal, was still wearing his pants and boots when the operation was over 9<' min­utes l~ter. 
Partly s1,111ny today .aruLromorr-around 50_. High. today an. l ow, Fair tonight with a low tomorrow,m the mid to uppt... 70s. 

CamP-_u_s 
3:30 p.rr 4 p.m., 
4:30p.m., 
5:30p.m., 7,9:15 & 11:30 p.m., 7 p.m., 7:30p.m., 
8 p.m. 

f 
~ 
.
' 
8 p.m., 

COMPUTER MINI 'COURSE 
''tntro. to pl-1," 115 CCMB 
LECTURE, "is thPre a law l1igh­er .I 1an torts?'', by prof. charles 
c: ri~..c, 105 LAW BLDG. 
mO-SEMINAR, "central act­ionc; of prostraglandins,'' by 7bigniew e. poddubiukm, d.,
G<\'TVr"'r <\Pn · 
MEETING, alpha phi omega, service fraternity, ZAHM HALL BASEMENT 
FILM, "the longest yard," 
FNGR. AUD. 
. 

MEETING, st. louis club, LIT 
TLE THEATRE, LAFORTUNE 
MEETING fellowship of Christian athletes, 122 HAYES­11Er\I.Y 
PRAYER MEETING, ''shared contem,Blation of scripture,'' at MARYS SOLITUDE, located on the west side of saint mary's campus. 
LECTURE, "confessions of a bio-degradable man,'' by dr. milton mayer, LIB. AUD. 
Tuesday, September 25, 1979 -pa_ge 2 
llillar flounders 

Gold prices bounce back 
LONDON (AP) · The dollar 
showed little benefit yesterday 
from the weekend of the West 
German mark. Gold prices bou­
need back from Friday's drop, 
but remained well below rec­
ords set last week. 
The boosting of the mark, 
Europe's strongest currency, 
against a handful of its heigh­
bars, was aimed at helping the 
weak and fluctuating dollar. 
But one currency dealer said in Paris that while the mark revaluation eased pressure temporarily against the dollar in Europe, a realignment of currency values on this side of the Atlantic was no answer to the dollar's fundamental prob­lems-American inflation and lack of confidence in American leadership. 
The late rate for gold was $378.50 an ounce in London and Zurich, the two major bullion markets in Europe. Friday's rates were $369 in London and $369.50 in Zurich. 
The value of the mark was altered by finance ministers of the eight countries in the European Monetary System, a 
The Observer Night Editor: Rod Beard Asst. Night Editor: Ryan Ver 
Berkmoes  
Copy  Editor:  M.B.  Moran  
Layout  Staff:  Cindy  KJiros  
News Editor:  Mike  Shields  

Editorial Layout: Colleen Sloan Sp,orts Layout: Beth Huff man Sports Copy Editor: Katie 
Huffman, Michael Ortman 
Typists:Mary Beth Budd, 
Katie Huffman, Beth Huff 
I 
man, Amy Peczkowski Night Controller: Came .!Jritt Proofreader:Mark Rust 
ND Day Editor:Marybeth
i Moran SMC Day Editor: Peggy Schtteeman Ad Design: Flo 0 'Connell 
Photographer: Greg Maurer 
The Observer [USPS 598 92111 Is publishec Monday throug~ Friday ex­cept during exam and vacatton periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S20 per year IS10 per semester! from The Observer. I'.0. box Q, Notre bame,l~tdlana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In· diana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
ARmANPO'S 
8AR8ER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 
143 7 N. Ironwood Dr South Bend 277-0615 Sue, Ruthie, Kim Amiando--stylist 
mon-wed-frl 8-5:30 tues-thurs 8-8 pm SQt 8-2 by Qppt. only SQt-no Qppt. needed 
currency stabilizing body, after they met for 15 hours in Brussels with central bank governors. 
In a widely expected move, the mark was revalued by 2 percent against the currencies of Belgium, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands and by 5 percent against the weaker Danish krone. 
Bonn financial sources said the Brussels meeting was initia­ted by West Germany and the revaluation was necessirated by the growing strength of the mark, because everybody who has money wants marks. Mak­ing marks more expensive pre­sumably would dampen de­
mand. Announcing the changes, 
[continued on page 5) 
Arts Festival schedule interviews 
The Student Union Culture Arts Commission is scheduling interviews for director of the Senior Arts Festival. The Festival takes place in earlyApril. 
Anyone interested in the position should contact the Student Union. 

need printing in a hurry? 100 -11 x 17 posters only $10.00 203 N. Main South Bend 289-6977 the wiz of the printingbiz! 


Any COLLEGE OF SCIENCE STUDENT INTERESTED IN REPRESENTING 
THE College of Science on the Academic Council should submit Name and btief Statement of Purpose before Sept.26th to: 
Student council c/o The OHice of DeQn of Science Rm 229 NleuwiQnd Science 
DONT 
GRADUATE 
without talking to the Hughes Recruiter visiting your campus soon. 
Contact your placement office for interview dates. r------------------, 
1 HUGHES j 
I I 
L------------------~
Cmating • fH!IW world with tll«tronics 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M /F 
Jltr 1 -.l ) 1~ ,.,. \1 1 "• 



Committee names James Reidman Junior Parent's Weekend Chairman 
b,y Bruce Oaldey 

James R. Riedman, a junior Finance major from Flanner Hall, last Friday was named Junior Parents' Weekend Com­mittee Chairman. He succeeds Mike Kenney in that post. 
Riedman was selected from an impressive group of 16 candidates, according to Tom Behney, junior class president and a member of the selection committee. Other menbers of the selection committee were: junior class officers Kevin L>ve­joy (VP), Jean Menoni (Sec), and, Mary Pat Ziolkowski (Treas); outgoing chairman Kenney; and Fr. Mario Pedi, assistant director of student activities. 
The new chairman immedi­at ely called for sup~ort from the junior class in oraer to make this parents' weekend a suc­cess. 

"We would like to set up committees for each of the functions during the Weekend ­the dinner, the breakfast, the mass, and so on -and we will need chairpersons and workers alike," said Riedman. 
''There will be an organiza­tional meeting Thursday, Sept. 27, at 8 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom for all those interest­ed in helping us in whatever way possible," he added. 
Riedman also stated that he would use the past few parents' weekends as a guideline for his decisions regarding what ev­ents to include in the week­end's schedule. 
Riedman will receive a report on last year's activities from 
Kenney, who will  serve  as  an  
unofficial  adviser  to  the  new  
chairman.  ·  

Kenney and Junior Class President Behney both expres­sed confidence in 'Riedman's ability to handle his duties effectively. 
''We have great faith in Jim, and we're sure he'll do a good job with the weekend," said Behney. 
All 16 candidates were inter­viewed last week by the select­ion committee. An Identical set of five questions was presented to each candidate. The commit­tee then reviewed the respon­ses and the backgrounds of the candidates before making their. selection. Kenney served in an advisory capacity and did not vote in the final selection process. 

On the road to Tokyo 
Finance major james R. Ried-weekend chairman last Friday man was namedjunior parents' [photo by Greg Maurer). 
Marching band will accompany team 
by Kelli Flint television appearance with to.P ium. A total of 197 bandmem­Japanese pop stars in concert ts bers will also make the trip. 
The Notre Dame marching also scheduled. The band's half Sponsors in Japan will finance St. Mar.v's charters buses band will accompany the foot­time program for the football Notre Dame's travelling costs ball team on their visit to Tokyo game, in which Notre Dame plus expenses, said Assistant 
Nov. 19-26 for the Mirage Bowl. faces Miami, is still undecided. Director of Athletics Joseph to see Pope in Chica!(oThe annual Mirage Bowl clim­Approximately 60 football O'Brien. axes a week-long series of players will travel to Tokyo for The domestic flying ar­
Margie Brassil the buses are being chartered

parades, concerts and televi­the game, which is scheduled to rangements are still uncertain Saint Mary's News Editor from Michigan. The Spiritualsion appearances which will be played in the Olympic stad-however it has been decided Commission has been trying for 
feature the Notre Dame march­that the band and team will fly three weeks to charter buses.
ing band. Japanese Airlines out of Los The St. Mary's Spiritual Com­All the buses in the South Bend 
According to Band Director Angeles and return to San mission has chartered four bus­area are already reserved. 
Tenure

Robert O'Brien, the band will Francisco via J AL Nov. 26. 
es to take St. Mary's students "!.apologize for the/rice but I
participate in two parades, and ''This should be a tremen­to Chicago on Oct. 5 to see Pope d~?ctded to go ahea with the
at least two concerts: one in the dous experience for the players, John Paul II's planned mass. tnp anyway because there wasbaseball park, one open air. A band, and cheerl~aders," sud
[continued from page 4] 

There will be room for 165 such a positive response to the
Assistant Athletic Director 
students on the buses and the id~a,_'' explained Spiritual Com­
O'Brien. "We decided to attend
According to Dr. Hickey, St. 

price will be $16.50 fo~ a round rntssioner Mary D. Ryan.
because we telt it would be an
Mary's Vice-President for Aca­
trip. The buses will leave from St.
immeasurable experience for
demic Affairs and Dean of
Students 
all." The price is so high because Mary's at 8:00 a.m. and returnF acuity, it is impossible to tell that night by 8 p.m. They will
how many teachers this policy drop students off at Soldiers
volunteer 
will effect. 'only one part-time Fido..wi1ete' 1liere" is· bus "park-'
:Defectors allege Soviet spies
teacfier has applied for tenure ing. From there it is an 11 blockunder this new/olicy, with no walk to Grant Park where the
to tutor 
decision reache . 
mass is being held. 

operating inside U.N.
The policy statement was fin­The mass will begin at 3:00alized in 1977 and went through 

p.m. The buses should arrive

"boat people" LONDON (AP) -The Soviet The BBC reported it could only 
approval by steps: Faculty As­
Union considers the United find one Soviet special assis­by 11 :OOa.m. giving the stud­sembly, Department Chairmen, 
by Kevin 0 'Brien 
ents more than enough time toNations "the tallest observation tant to Waldheim: VictorAcademic Affairs Council, get to Grant Park. 

tower in the western world '' Lessionski.
Committee on Education, and:Fifteen to twenty Notre Dame The Commission will be sell­
and at least half the Soviet Shevchenko, former U.N. un­was voted on by the Board ofstudents have volunteered to professionals employed there dersecretary general for politic­ing tickets for the buses Thurs­Regents in October 1978. It
tuto~ South Bend's population are spies, 5 former Soviet U.N. al affairs, also named Geli day at 6:00 pro. in the Student 
of VIetnamese "boat people" in was overwhelmingly approved . 
officials who defected said yes­Dnefrovsky, recently appointed Government Office in Regina a l?rogram sponsored by the by both part-time and full-time 
terday. chie of personnel at the U.N. Ha~l. Money must be paid then 
Netghborhood Study Help teachers. Arkady Shevchenko inter­Geneva headquarters, as a to msure a reservation. Stud­
Program (NSHP). · "This policy is new to us, so ents can buy three tickets with a viewed on the British' Broad­high-level KGB officer.
Joe Witchger, spokesman for we need to see the impact. 
St. Mary's ID(which must becasting Corp.Jrogram ''Pano­Britain and other Westernthe NSHP, said that his organ­However, theoretically, 1t sho­rama" claime a Russian spec­delegations tried to block Dne­shown).

ization is only one source for uld allow us to tap a rich source ial assistant to U.N. Secretary­provsky's appointment, but it For any further information,volunteer tutors to teach of talent who otherwise would General Kurt Waldheim is a was put through under Soviet students may contact Mary D. 
English to the approximtely 400 not be available. In addition it professional officer of the KGB pressure, the ·program ·report­Ryan or their Hall SpiritualVietnamese refugees in the provides appointments to indi­Commissioner.
secret police. ed.
South Bend area. viduals for regular employment 
The NSHP and other volun­at a time when few positions are teers involved will be working . available," said Hickey. This under the direction of the South policy affects married women Bend Community School Cor­who, because offamily respons­poration's "English as a ibilities, cannot devote full-time Second Language'' division serv.ice to the college. Without (ESL). such• a policy the college might 
The tutoring will begin with a lose some part-time teachers to workshop October 2, where ESL other colleges. representatives will train the Hickey added that, such a tutors by outlining and exper­policy allows the college "to ience explaining the techniques recognize taese teachers in a of teachmg .for others to use as meaJ?-ingful way." This policy a second language. provides not only fmicial bene­
The 400 Vietnamese are fits, but also p~ivileges and widely scattered throughout the status. South Bend area, with the On June 28, 1979,'!JAmeri­children attending area schools. can Association of iversity 
According to Witchger, this Women (AAUW) cite St. scattering produces a problem Mary's for this tenure poFcy, as for his organization. a means of achieving eq?.\ty for 
The people are very spread women on campus. In '.this out, and unless we hve more manner women faculty member people with cars, it is goin~ to -s are able to coordinate th& be hard to get out to them,' he pro~essional careers with .th~ii 
<;aid. ·--· ----·• • · • • · farnlly responsibilit 
TUNES CITY PROMOTIONS PROUDLY PRESENTS 
AlDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1979 MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS: $5.50 ADVANCE. $6.50 DAY OF SHOW AVAILABLE AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE AND RIVER CITY RECORDS, U.S. 31 NORTH ELKHART: SUSPENDED CHORD. PIERRE MORAN MALL NILES: THE RECORD JOINT, BELL PLAZA MISHAWAKA: BOOGIE RECORDS, COLLEGE SQUARE AND JUST FOR THE RECORD, 100 CENTER 



The Observer Tuesday, September 25, 1979 ~ page 4 
New fire escape makes 

Morrissey's top floors safe 
Luther said that if a fire
by Beth Willard 
blocked the stairwell or hall "students would have to stay in Plans to build a new fire their rooms and wait to be escape from the third and rescued, or somehow get fromfourth floor chapel wing of the fourth floor to the third floor Morrissey Manor are now being balcony with a rope or sheetsfinalized, according to Bro. Ed and wait to be rescued fro~Luther, rector of the hall. 

there,''Twemy-two students living Although no students werethere have no escape route 

except through the windows on hurt in that fire two years ago, the third and fourth floors, he discussion immediately began 
about installing a fire escape for said. 

Two years ago a fire on the the chapel wing of the building. 

third floor chapel wing made Luther revealed that when he obvious that students living on arrived a year ago he set the the third and fourth floor had no acquisition of the frre escape as safe means of escape from their his first priority, "The budgetsection of the hall. Students had already been scheduled to would have to reach the main allow for the escape," he said.
for meditation, as this person
The r1oon-day sunshine stairwell or the fire escape at ''I keep hearing reports from
has discovered [photo by Greg. provides a pleasant atmosphere 
the opposite end of Morrissey maintenance that 'we're work­
Maurer]. · 
to get out of the building. in~ on it', but I see nothing bemg done. I can't understand it. I feel they have been
In spite of criticism dragging heels the
their on whole project. 
Althou~h only twenty-two stu­dents ltve in the third and 
fourth floor chapel wing Luther feels strongly that the whole hall would benefit from another escape route in case of a fire. 


Young Pressler formally announces candidacy 
Anderson, R-Ill; and former
WASHINGTON (AP) -Sen a freshmen member of the "I will support any of the John Moorman, assistant dir­Larry Pressler concedes that Senate. · Republicans who are running." Minnesota Gov. Harold Stass­ector of maintenance, said that some might view his campaign A boyish facf' who answers Republicans who have already en. the frre escape is ''under con­
announced their candidacies Pressler said presidential cam­
for president as premature for a questions cautiously, Pressler struction by Verkler Construct­
paigns have become too general 
young man first elected to office says his initial support will are Crane, former Texas Gov. ion Co., but no definite date can 
Ill 1974. come from among younf voters John Connally; former U.S. in discussions of national issu­be given as to when it will beand he will focus
''Some people will look on it as in their 20s and 30s who are Ambassador to the United Na­es, so on a installed." an ego-centered thing, but we disenchanted with conventional tions George Bush; Sen. Bob number of very specific quest­Moorman attributed the delayions, namely a huge federal
will just have to let the chips fall politics. Dole; Los Angeles businessman 
in obtainin~ the structure ti

where they may," said the So far, he has picked up six Benjamn Fernandez; Rep. John program to encourage product­problems w1th the design andIon of gasahol from grain,
3 7 -year-old Pressler a few days dele~ates in the Florida presi­location due to the architecturalbetter benefits for Viet Nambefore formally arnouncing his dential preference convention, structure of Morrissey. Theveterans, housing for the elder­candidacy. where Republicans will meet present design calls for a ladderTwo Soviet ly and a tax incentive program
But Pressler said he became a Nov. 17 to cast largely symbolic type structure reaching from
Republican U.S. Senator from votes for various candidates. designed to create JObs for the fourth floor to the third floor Indians living on reservations.
South Dakota by ignoring con­Pressler notes that is more balcony, and from the balcony
ventional wisdom that said he than are committed to Rep. Phil skaters to the ground. was either too young or un­Crane, R-Ill., who has been In the two years since the last
known to win election to federal running for more than a year, 
New gate 
fire Moormanstressed thatJack

office. but far behind the 43 pledged to Bland, captain of the fire de­
At the moment, he said in an Ronald Reagan. defect partment, has been working on
interview before his planned schedule announcement today, "I am not ' utilizing the exist~g escape
GENEVA, Switzerland (AP) -structure on of the
one s1deperceived as a serious contend­

Soviet figure skaters Ludmilla 

er.... I am not harboring any Belousova and Oleg Protopo­in ~{feet building for "maximum dis­. 'A boyish face charge of students."
illusions," he said, "I am a pov, two-time Olympic champ­Notre Dame Security an­re?list." ''The maintenance depart­
Ions and aging darlmgs of the nounced that starting today the
From among other members ment in interested in continu­
who answers Russian ice rink, have defected Juniper gate will close at 9 p.m. 
of the Senate, he said, "There tl the West, the Swiss govern­rather than the usual 11 p.m. ally upgrading the safety od has been a good deal of gllod m•:nt announced yesterday. for safety reasons. On Sunday university structures in the
questions cautiously' 
·•atured jostling" about his Tiw 47-yf'ar-old Protopopov and the gate will continue to close at event of a frre" concluded candidacy, which he said will be his 44-year-old wife vanished 6 p.m. Moorman. low key. last ':"uesday, the day they were 
Nonetheless, Pressler can ar­
to ha\e flown back to the Soviet gue that he has come a long Union afrer a four-week skating 
way in a short time, first as a To Pressler, Reagan is clearly exhibition tour of West Ger­GP department sponsors 
the man to beat in the GOP
House member elected five many a'ld Switzerland. Swiss years ago at age 32 and now as competition. He quickly adds, Justlce Ministry spokesman Ul­
Mayer's lecture tonight
rich Hu Jacher announced they had ask ~d for asylum in Switz­erland last week, and said he


SMC updates faculty 
said th~ government would A lecture entitled ''Confes­education in America. make a fec1sion within several sions of a Biodegradable Man" In the 1950's Mayer won both weeks. He did not disclose will be given by Dr. Milton the George Polk Memorial

tenure policy 
their present whereabouts or Mayer toni~ht at 8 p.m. in the Awar~ a~d. the Benjaminplans. library auditorium. Franklm Cuanon for his work inthe same evaluation for renew­
by Maryjo R;isso Mayer, an associate of the journalism. He has served as a
al, which is based on teaching, 
Center for the Study of Demo­newspaperman with both thescholarship, and service. 
cratic Institutions in Santa Bar­·Associated Press and the Pro­
Tenured/art-time faculty are 
bera, california, is best known gressive.
considere as Regular Faculty. 
The new tenure policy design­Paddle fish for his role in the development Mayer's lecture and visit are 
ed to accomodate part time They receive a proportionate of the "great books" program sponsored by the General Pro­share of salary and fringe
faculty at St. Mary's takes m undergraduate and adult gram.
benefits, also a proportionateeffect this year. The policy was 
meet

share of responsibilities andapproved by the College's Bo­
ard of Regent's in October priveleges afforded to full-time 
HUNGRY?teachers. Part-time teachers,
1978. 

the tenure tract, hold theirThis policy provides an oppor­on 
tomorrow Try Popeyes spicy delicious cajun menu.
appropiate rank. Non-Regulartunity for tenure to those tf'ach­
Faculty with part-time appoint­Delivery service available to campus
ers who work !ess than full­
The Elusive Paddlefish will

time, and provided tltq work at ments are ranked as either hold a reorganizational meeting Tom -Crace Hall-2t87least half-time. The-y may not lecturers or visiting faculty. 
Part-time faculty members tomorrow night in the Little Kevin -Crace Hall-t64t '-.,N........,.-"U
be employed outsid,.. •he coll­
The_a~r~ ofl.aFortune at 8 pm.

ege. Part-time fa, ul1y mem­may constitute no more thab 
Acnvtttes for the coming year

bers are eligible for tt-nure one-fourth of the Regular Facu­
w!ll . be discu~sed. Anyone

according to the rules govern­lty in any department except wtshmg more mformation may "oPe~es-­ing· full-time faculty; approval under extreme conditions. contact Murph at 1072 or Tom t:AMOUS FRIED CHICKEN of the position, a doctorate and [continued on page 3] at 234-B301 . 1636 N. Ironwood 
.. ,· 4 ... Jo"" ..a..-'.. ··~·~ ....... ¢ ..... ,,_,_.,.>J ...-.,-...~ )'.••• •. 1,
__ 4'.il' 


SMC sponsors Mini Urban Plunge 
by Cece Baltles 

The Sociology Clud of St. Mary's is sponsoring a Mini Urban Plunge to expose stud­ents to various social services and underpriviledged areas within the South Bend com­munity, according to Mary Kay Cohan, director of the new program. 
Cohan believes that this will give students the ''opportunity to view other lifestyles beyond the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community.'' At pre­sent the program is only open to Sociology Club members; how­ever, if successful, it will be expanded to include anyone interested from Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, Cohan said. 
Last week members of the club visited several organizations involved in community im­provement. They began the Mini Urban Plunge at the Justice and Peace Center. The center helped to organize the trip by providing the names of agencies that would be of int~rest to the students. 
The next stop was to "South­hold" and "Renew," which are non-profit organizations in­volved in the restoration of low to middle-income housing. The group :1lso visited ''The Street 
, , Money
' 
[continued from page 2] 

French Finance Minister Rene Monory said the joint decision to help the dollar was a "big step forward,'' and the EMS is ready to meet with American authorities to find the reasons behind this and take appropri­ate action-it isn't up to us to r,nalyze them." 
On European money mar­kets, the dollar firmed against all major currencies except the Dutch guilder, and gained near­ly half a cent in London against che British pound, although Britain has not joined its eight Common Market partners in th EMS. 
In Milan, an Italian dealer said he felt the 2 percent revaluation of the mark was not enough and the dollar will continue weak but steady in the next few months. "If it doesn't keep steady," he added, "we'll have another dollar crisis be­cause the U.S. Government cannot act strongly to cut the rate of inflation tn an election year.'' 
Academy,'' which is a high school for children with discipli­nary problems. 
The group also visited the Welfare Department, where they discussed the typical family on welfare. Here many of the existing stereotypes were renounced. The group then discussed what they had seen during the trip. 
One student who participated in the Mini Urban Plunge, Joan Driscoll, said she felt that "it was an excellent opportunity, especiallly for sociology majors, because it shows them the social services available around South Bend. It also brings many situations out of the textbook and into real life. '' 
No other trips have been planned yet, Cohan said, but she added that the club hopes to hold these plunges regu 
• • • CLC 
[continued from page 1] drug abuse on campus. _ The committee will consist of Kee­nan President Paul Riehle, Walsh Rectress Sr. Kathleen Rossman, Lewis Rector Moira Baker, Zahm Vice-President Mike Sexton, Sorin Rector Fr. David Porterfield, and Conyers. According to Porterfield, the committee will attempt to "look at drugs and alcohol as they affect academic and residential life, and suggest solutions to the problems of alcohol and 
drug abuse.'' 
The meeting was held for the second time this semester in the Grace hall basement. Pre­sent for the first time were faculty representatives Prof. Anne LaCombe and Prof. Wil­liam Eagan. Faculty represent­atives had not been chosen when the first CLC meeting was held Sept. 10. ' 
The next meeting of the CLCwill be held in the Grace basement Oct. 9 at 6:45 p.m. 
... Brigade 
[continued from page 1] 
in critical condition with bullet wounds in the head, authorities said. They said he had fake documents with him, and he was identified through finger­prints. 

Fuel development be~ins 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate Energy Committee, be­ginning work on legislation to foster a synthetic fuels indus­try, agreed yesterday to include $1 billion in the measure for development of fuels from or­ganic waste. ­
The committee's informal, unanimous decision heans that loan guarantees and other kinds of financing would be avail­able for firms that produce fuel substitutes from agricultural and forest products, garbage and municipal waste. 
The committee estimated that 20 plants costing. $50 million each would be butlt to produce new kinds of fuel using such methods, known as bio­mass. 
Sen. Henry__}a~k~??• D-Wash., committee chairman, said he hoped the panel would complete work on the measure, a key part of Prisedent Carter's energy program, by the end of the week. 
The Committee took its act­ion as an Exxon Co. official urged Congress to reject Car­ter's plan for a new govern­ment-funded Energy Security Corp. to nurture the synthetic fuels industry. 
W.T. Slick Jr., a senior vice president at Exxon, told a House subcommittee that while the heavy federal financial sup­port will be needed to develop synthetic fuels, existmg gov­ernment agencies such as the Energy Department should be in charge. 
, ­
·Tuesday, September 25, 1979'-page 5 
~ •• 



c:....
Xo Gl­
mz ..... 
zo 
?~. 
:X " 
~~I_
z a -.--­
)> )o .... 
.. z ..­
§ • 
"• 

work, this student decided that surrender was the betterpart of valor [photo by Greg Maurer]. 
British dictate 
Guerillas accept demands 
LONDON (AP) -Guerilla lead­ers, in a major concession at the Zimbawbe Rhodesia peace talks, yesterday relunctantly accepted British demands that the white minority be initially given 20 percent of the seats in a new Parliament for the war­torn nation. 
The Patriotic Front guerilla alliance had been adamant it wanted no special seats for whites, but the turnaround raised British hopes that a fresh constitution may be agreed on by the end of this week. 
On Friday, the Salisbury dele­gation -led by the country's first black prime minister, Abel Muzorewa -accepted the ''general principles'· of the constitution drafted by Britain, the conference sponsor. 
But the guerillas. said their concessions depend on the Lon­don conference agreeing to replace Muzorewa with a tran­sition administration to oversee fresh elections and the building up of a new army. 
The British draft strips the white minority, on which Muzo­rewa depends to run the army and the economy, of power to block constitutional change and control top jobs for !Up to a decade. 
Group discovers '64 army hallucinogens test 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The U.S. Army tested the reactions of volunteers to a hallucinogenic drug and an antidote to it in open-air tests .in 1964, accord­ing to government documents obtained by a citizen's group. The documents obtained under a Freedom of Information Act request say eight male volunt­eers were given open-air doses of the psychochemical agent BZ at the Dugway Proving Grounds in Utah, the group said today. The army ·previously said it tested BZ on 362 persons from 1960 to 1969 but has not followed up to determine if there were afteraffect · The volunteers were not. told they would be subjected to BZ, the Army said. The new docu­ments said the eight men were tested to see what the effects of BZ would be at a distance of 1,000 yards and to see how effective a treatment called eserine would be at t·educing delirium introduced by BZ. 
H'comin!( packa!(es available 
Ticket packages for this year's homecomin~ weekend will go on sale tqmght at 7:45 p.m. The location of the sale will be announced at 7:30 p.m. on WSND, AM 640. 
Guest Speaker's Night 
Mr. Robert Ninneman 
The Insurance Business 
Mr. Harvey Wilmeth 
Current Inflation and Long-term Economic Cycles 
Mr. Steve Huff Immediate Career Opportunities in Corporate Finance 
Wednesday September 26 7:30pm Room 122 Hayes-Healy 
Everyone is welcome 
' 
1 
i 
1 
1 
1 
i 
,1 
1 1 1 
1 
1 1 
l 
l 
1 
j 



Editorials 
Tuesday, September 25, 1979 -page 6 
P.O. BoX Q 
Kc~p Festival tradition alive 
l.;r•.r spring witrresscd the 
h11 rl1 rd ;r new, btl! vcry unique, 
N(ltrr· Darnr rr;rclirion -Th(" 
~''""'''' Arr<; l·n.rival. Kathy
l<ya11. rliC" fr•.riv;d dire((or, 
dr-..,< rdwd "" irH rprion: 
'Tr(lfll rlrr hq.~inning stages of 
rJ,," r· vr· r11 I ha vc hf"rn told 
rl,,ll rJ,,., h .flv;tl wa<. tjtJitc an 
;rrrd""""" pr,jn r Foolish is 
wlr;lf 11 mr.. rrr l'ooli'-.h to 
;'"'·II"" ;wyrl11rrg ahour the 
'-.l;ffr ,f rlre art'-. Foolish to 
ll("Y,If' """IC"t Iring nf"w in the 
rver df!·,, ~-h'hruat y months. 
l·oolr•.lr ro lwlrrvr Scniors will 
';" ru rp;llr and rc<.,pond as their 
;r•.r nu>rllh" wind down ... Vain, 
roo, her .ruse I was take-n to 
.,.,.,umr rlrar rlwrc was a wraith 
' 
of r;denr, untappC"d within the 
Sc·nrnr <:lass..that greatness 
would cmcr ge, me-rely given 
the r h<Jrrt c." 
Bur f11r one wrrk last April 
sw h a rharH r was given. 
Artwork, s<ulptures, and 
phorn~taphy wrrr displayed in 
thf" '"'s Student Gallery; music 
.111tl r hc voil f"s of drama re­
""'""le-d fr orn rhr walls of the 
N;r.' and finion writers and 
I'"',.., t arvnl the-ir rreative in­
rrials upon rhr page-s of the first 
Scnior Arts Festival Program. 
A new tradition was horn-alive 
and well. 
Now rhe search has been 
begun ro find students from thc­
t lass of 1980 with the enthu­
<.,Jasm to kC"C"p this tradition 
alive I am confide-nt that thr 
scatl h will not be in vain. 
lr11rrvicws for the position of 
Frsr ivai Dircctor are now being 
srhcdulcd. Interested Seniors 
should conran the Student 
Union as soon as possible. 
Dat'e Ellison Cultural Arts Commission Notre Dame Studf'nl Union 

Dining hall meals degrading 
nr,;1 1-".lttnr: 
Sr Fnod Sel\tle dirertor Hob Hnhmson rn rntlv condemned ''drunkrn. disr,rd"erl)" behavior ;lfld rlw rhtP\\IIJg nf 1;1od'' by '-.ll~<knr-... ;-~-.."c""'~ th;lf Notre !);lmc·-.. -..flhknr.-. presume tn he cnrlllc·,l f•• l''"rlc~es tanta­111c'lll11 I•' l'''c nrlc dclinqucncr. 
\\ c· • h.tllcn~< rh:s statement 
:\I rl11 'II gh •lr ;mkcnness is pre­"''< 111 ,,n rl11., <ampus, and c,, rlclllnll ,., generated by a l<lllt!l;~ll 'll tot\. destructive be­havi '' ;11nong. students has an ,,hvi.HIS r;rt;-~lysr in morc serous rnatf<"l' Tl~c catalyst in the recent food fight was unrelated to the game. It was the justifiable disrespect for the food prc>'·ided in the clining hall. 
The students, to our d1sgust and chagrin, spend increasing amounts on food, then find the money wasted on meals of quality that can best be de­scribed as degrading. 
Dining hall managemert1 evidcntly believes that being contract to provide food service gives license tr> provide as little service as tolerable to stud r.ts restricted to a hdl 7-day meal plan. 
If dining hall management is im apablc of preparing more than reheated food from pre­vious poor mr:lls, then pnhaps they should surrender the ser­vice to a conc("rn that can feed irs customers. 
Daniel]. Connors Gene Triozzi 
Lessons not always related to bookS 
Dear F,ditor. 
A new semester has begun at 
Notre Dame. The quads are 
filled with energetic freshmen 
beginning their college careers 
and upper classmen returning 
to complete their own. The 
buzz of summertime fiJI., the 
dining hall. Roommatrs plan 
picnics, trips to the dunes, and 
spend hours chatting on the 
quad with classmates, sharing 
the news of the summer months 
and the excitement of the ones 
to come. 
Hut how long will the "time" 
last? How long will it take 
bcfore that test or paper pre­
sides over our friends? How 
long before we stop sharing our 
time? 
This semester we must real­
ize that some of the most 
important lessons we will learn 
will not be related to b<•oks, but 
to involvement with oth('r 
people. We must Jearn how to 
develop these personal relation­
ships into a caring and sharing 
allttude about life. We must 
learn from involvement in the 
world we live in; CII.A, study 
help, and the Northeast Neigh­
borhood Center provid immed­
iate opportunites in the South 
Bend area. ­
Perhaps we will be lucky enough to learn from a profes­sor on a personal level, and possibly some of us will be able to claim a d('epening in our understanding of God and our spiritual lives. 
We must remember through the S('mester that books, tests, and GPA are important, but the gr('at('St resource of this Uni­versity is its people. We must make sure we always have the time for th('m. 
Mary Massman 
Graduate praises 

Joe Evans 
Dear Editor: 
Before I met Joe Evans, I thought I knew how to see, but I did not. Joe Evans knew how to see. He wondered at every beautiful speck of creation. He praised the unconquerable in­
tricacy  of  the  snowflake,  the  
rose,  and  the dragonfly.  He  
witnessed  the  poetry  of  the  

changing sea5ons. 
Above all, he saw the Christ in U'> all, an·l he loved what he saw. He cared for us as if we were his own :mel in a sense we were. For~~ while he was ours, and I thank God !ur that. 
Michael Holland ND Class of '79 

MIV!NG A ~TC!FYCFl!E 
MJN!?Oe !XK.:TRJN/3 AfJ(MHIS H/!AIJ, 
JK.K!ia'l !JeMAiaP 7MTTHE PR£5­
f/}fj/{{n4CE /Jaf!N THE SOVIETS 
"EYEBALL 7{) EYe81UL, UK£A /?EAL MAN" 
I 
IN ANOTHtR /J£VCI..Of'Man; 7HE SENAlDRs A/.50 PLE£)6Et:J 70 

R?OM THE OIEIIP St:/ITS
/NV5TIGA713 AEil/~PaVC:e /..INK­

ON CAPITOL.. HilL.., THIS IS 

Rely On RdSary to stop killings 
l'homt.H /7. Flint's thottghtful••. , .. ~ , · the Septemhr 12th Observer urged that we ~on­sider the question as to whether .frJrce ..thouldbe used to pr_eventthe Pfrformance of4bortton. I hnpe these suggestions . will contribute to lhat considera­
tion. 
Ifyou saw a woman strangling 
her three·year-old child on a 
street comer, would you not 
interfere? And even ifshe were 
co<nmitting the murder in her 
own house but in plain view 
from the street, would you not 
bfeak down th(' door to stop 
her? The law would surely 
recognize your right to do so. 
Why, then, do we not charge 
into abortion clinics to stop the 
killings that take place behind 
their ooors. ? 
The-common law r:·ivilege of niwssity would 7ustify one in entering someb.ldv's house to prevent the latter from knifing a perMn to death. But accordtng to the ·Supreme Court the unborn child is a non·person whose life is practically as much at the disposal of his mother as would be the life of a gold-fish, There is evidently, therefore, no legal right for any tb:rd patty to interfere to prevent an abortion. 
In moral .ter1ns, however, there' may be a right to inrerfere in a situation wnere th..·re is a reasonable prospect that such interferenct" would be · more than a mete gesture an would actually save Jives. Th(' laws 
which protect abortion clinics against those who would pre­vent abortions provide a legal sanctuary for murder. Those !awlS, therefore, are unjust and morally void, as are the Sup­reme Court's abortion rulings. Whether demonstration and obstruction should be used against abortion _facilities is therefore a questton of pru­dence and tactics. 
There could be situations where it would be appropriate to emer the premises of abor­tion clinks, but this would generally be counter-product· tve. 

The objective is not to confront abortion with the mere strength of numbers or with phystcal f()f{~e. With the power of the state arranged on the side of death, there is practically nothing one can do to save the life ofthe child whose mother is resolved upon his death. Breaking up the furniture and sining in clinic doorways will be of vll"tually no use in this respect. Our reliance here must' be on the Rosary rather rhan the sledgehammer. The most effective technique would be to confront every abortion facility in the country with a continuous, peaceful Rosary vigil lawfully conducted on the public sidewalk, including the offering of pro.-life literature, to persons entermg and leavtng the premises. This would not involve any obstruction or inter· ference wtth anybody. But it 
would dramatize the opP-osition of abortion to the law of God. And only thmugh the grace of God wilJ we succeed in remov· ing this scourge from our land. One objettion to a P.rar.er vigil outside of abortion facllities 1s that it would put an extra burden of guilt on some women who have abortions without really knowing what they are doing. It is not our funcnon to try to make anyone feel guilty. And the subjective culpabiltty of any person is ours netther to know nor to judge. However, in the objective moral order abor-
Charles B. Rice 
tion is murder. It is proper for us to call it that and to do so in literature distributed to willing takers at the scene of the crime. 
Ifthis incidentally causes some particiP.ants if1-qaby killing to feel gutlty, thts IS understand­able. For they do have some· thing to feel guilty about. 
Another objection to prayer at abortion factlities is that prayer is effective .wherever it is offered. We can do as much good, it is said, praying in church or in privacy of our homes as we can on the public sidewalk. Part of our national problem, however, is due to the tendency to restrict religion to a strictly private preserve, to keep h in the closet and thereby to <lenv its relevance to the public (ife of the nation. There 1s a needed element of witness in prayin_g at an abortion fac­tory. It tS hardly too much to suggest that, in the face of the legalized slaughter of millio.t;JS otbabies, we ought to pray 10 public for deliverance. Vanous groups throughout the country are engaged in such peaceful prayer at aboriton facilities. Every Saturday morning at nine, concerned citizens pray the Rosary before the aboriton clinic across from ·St. Josefh's Hospital in South Bencf. AI are encouraged to participate, including espectally Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stud­ems, faculty and staff. 
We ought to put our pro-life acrivity on the proper basis. Our politicing has borne only limited fruit. While continuing to educate and to work for a constitutional amendment we ought to begin ro pray in earnest prancularly to the Mother of God, who is Notre Dame. · 
r 
admrnrstration of either institution.
r Editorial Board and Department Managers 
r The news is reported as accurately and 
as ohjcct ively as possible. Editorials Hditor-in-chz"e( ........ Roser_nary I:vtills Sports Edt/or .................. Mark Perryr represent rhe opinion of a majority of 'Managmg Editor...... :.. .Dtane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Coqn<;lly Uu\ (J Noll"(' name, IN 46556 rhe Editorial Hoard. Commentaries; Editonal Editor.............. Ann Gales Photo Editor .............. Doug ChnstJan 

r _The Observer_· 
~ 
opinion~ and leners are the views of Senior Copy Editor . ....... M. Onufrak 1!1c ()h,e1"1'CT is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­bxecutiz'e News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager: ...... .Steve Odland n<"w~papn puhlished by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor .................... Mark Rust Production Manager .......Tim Sullivan ol rlw Unrvcrsiry of Notre Dame du lac and r he free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager ........ .Bob Rudy and Saini Marv's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor .... .Ellen Buddy Controller................. .Kevin Manion necessarily refl('cl the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor........ Margie Brassil Circulation Manager ...... Greg Hedges 
~~-----------~----­

The Observer 



Two-thirds of future mothers will work 
WI ASHINGTON (AP) -Two of every three mothers will be holdmg jobs in 1990 as a huge exodus of women from the home to the workplace contin­ues during the next decade, a group of employment experts predicted yesterday. 
The role of full-time housewife and mother is becoming the­exception rather than the rule, according to six economists and sociologists who have written a book on working woinen. 
The book, ''The Subtle Revol­ution: Women at Work," des­cribes the sharp increase in female employment as a revolu­tion that is affecting ''virtually all of out social and aconomic arrangements.'' 
An estimated 11 million wom­en will be entering the labor market by the end of the next decade, and the majority of them will be mother.., the authors reported. 
As a result, the peret·ntage of married women who will be in the labor force will grow from the current level of just over half to nearly two-thirds by 1990, according to the book. The same two-thirds percent­age i:a expected to apply to all women who have children liv­ing at home -regardless of marital status. 
An even higher percentage of women who are both married and have children living at home will be in the job market in 10 years, the authors report­ed. By 1990, "the stereotype of a wife as someone who stays home to look after children will fit only about one quarter'' of American wives, said Ralph Smith, an economist who edited the book. 
Currently, a little less than a 
third of American wives are 
full-time himemakers raising 
The percentage of women who 
work has been growing steadily 
since reliable records first were 
kept in 1890. In that year, only 
18 percent of femaDes over the 
age of 13 and less than 5 
percent of married women were 
tn the labor force. 
But the most dramatic exodus 
ofwomen into jobs has occurred 
since the end of World War II, 
when the percentage ofworking 
women has risen from one-third 
in. 1947· to one-half 30 years 
later, Smith said at a news 
conference yesterday. 
Women have been streaming 
into jobs for a combination of 
economic and social reasons, 
Smith said. They include:: a 
sharply declining birth rate, 
increased employment oppor­
tunities and higher salaries for 
women, a family's desire to 
keep up with inflation by having 
two wage earners and changing 
social attitudes about sexual 
roles. 

A principal consequence of 
the increses in working mothers 
will be tBe need for more 
child-care facilities, the authors 
noted. 
During the next decade, there will be 3.1 million more working mothers with pre-school child­-ren. And the number of children under age 6 who will have working mothers is ex­pected to rise from a current 6.4 
million to 10. 5 million -4 5 
percent of all American child­
ren that age. 
Social psychologist Kristin A. 
Moore, one of the authors, said 
that studies conducted on child 
care have found no evidence 
that children-of working moth-­
ers suffer any harmful effects. 
• 
the Ivory Coast agreed to give him asylum, he left his jet, boarded a French Air Force DC-R and flt,w 10 Abdij::m with at least six of tht· 2(, persons who accompanied him 10 Fra­nce. 
The Caravelle rook off late yesterday and while its destina­tion was not announced, reli­able sources who asked not to be named said at least 16 of Bokassa's party, with him in Libya when the coup was carried out, wanted to go back to Bangui and it was believed the jet was headed there. 
Bokassa, still a French citizen by virtue of service in the French army, sought asylum in France, but the government 
Sociolof{'Y Club meets tonit<ht 
the Notre Dame Sociology Club will hold its first meeting for all sociology majors and interested people tonight at 
6:30 in rm. 118 O'Shag. 
St. Louis Club to meet in LaFortune 
The ND-SMC St. Louis Club will hold an organizational meeting today at 7 p.m., in the Little Theatre in LaFortune Student Center, All students from the St. Louis area are urged to attend. 
Or!(anizational Meetitt!( of the _ 
NEW .TER"5EY CL-UB 
1burs. Sel>t. 27at Bpm 
in the Little Theater of LaFortune. Any questions call 
Dave at1148 or .Jeffat 1387. 
~************************~ ALL .JERSEYANS ARJJ~ -URGb'l J 1'0 AT11~"NJJ 

-

BRIDGET'S 
presents 

2 Fingers Tequila Party Pitcher~ of: Tcnio:h,t! T eq nil'.>' Sunrise or Marguarita 

~s.oo 
A ratflr will be held ~ 
------------------Jr 
~ 
--~~----------------------------------~---·---·-­
r 
The Observer -Sports Tuesday, September 25, 1979 -page 8 
Residents 
•
uncertam about future after Three Mile Island 

MIDDLETOWN ,Pa. (AP) ­Like the unseen nuclear partic­les that peppered this rural town of 10'000 six months ago, the lingering anxiety of Three Mile Island's neighbors is hard to measure. 
Its level of contamination varies from heavy to non-exis­tent. Some believe the fear, like radiation, has a half-life of several generations. 
''As long as the plant is there, people in the area will think about the accident con­stantly,'' said Mayor Robert Reid. "If the plant would be there for the next 100 years, I think (fear) is going to be passed down from generation to generation.'' 
Last March 28, a series of mechanical malfunctions and human errors at Three Mile Island resulted in leaks of radioactive material when uran­ium in the reactor overheated, 
Local clinics and medical offices have also logged a "boom" since spring. 
"People reponed experienc­i~g stomach upsets, ulcera­
uons, shortness of breath and sleeplessness," said Dr. Geo­rge Tomuhata, who is prepar­ing a TMI medical study for the Pennsylvania Health Depart­ment. He said the incidence among people living within a 
' 'As long as the plant is there, people in the area will think about the acddent constantly'' 
10-mile radius of the plant "is very high." 
Tokuhata said he believes the maladies are psychosomatic, ­caused by the mental stress or the accident . 
Even those in good health 
don't sleep easy. 
"It's an undercurrent that's with you all the time. We're guinea pigs. Who knows what will turn up in our health later on?" said Hazel Stoner, whose small wood house is the closest 

dwelling to the plant's mam 
entrance. 

Residents who say they once 
trusted Metropolitan Edison 
Co., operator of TMI, now 
appear skeptical of company 
assurances that the outside 
radiation levels were always 
But most Middletown resi­
dents accept the looming plant 
as their fate. Few believe they 
have the power to prevent its 
billion-dollar reactors from op­.erating again someday. 
"Most of up thought the 
plant was going to be good for 
the economy and produce cheap 
electricity,'' said George Boyer, 
a storeowner for nore than 30 
years. 

"We're all responsible for it. 
We had the chance to stop it, 
but we didn't want to. It's too 
late now." 


-

Commission wants to 
inform 'ignorant ' students. 
by Luann Duesterberg of cultural programs to be held in the Nazz once a month that Notre Dame Student Govern­will feature dances, songs and ment Third World Commission­skits highlighting the culture of er Roman Macia, working with a particular third world country. St. Mary's Student Body Presi­A question and answer session dent Pia Trigiani and advisor would follow to promote stud­Fr. O'Neal, plans to implement ent participation and clarify several new projects this year various aspects of the life style. designed to increase awareness Another project, Macia anno­of third world concerns. unced, is the Less DevelopedTheir goal,Macia said, is to Countries Conference to be educate an ignorant and often held on Feb. 29 and March 1-2, apathetic student body, isolated which will be incorporated this by its own culture from the year with the International Stu­
lifestyles of third world peop­dents Organization's festival. les. Inco!J>orating the two, Macia 
The organization's activities said, will attract more atten­began this year with a film tion. ..,_ series co-sponsored by the Plans are being made to bring Third World Concerns Commi­in foreign students from all over ssion and the Social Commis­the country as well as a variety sion which featured several of speakers lecturing on the movies stressing third world various cultural achievments of problems. their respective countries, 
A new project Macia said he Macia added. hopes to implement is a serit>s 

Walsh urxes Wotnen to _join Coast Guard 
by Mary Kay Leydon -about the orr·" 'uruues for women m the l S. Coast
Katby Cauley 

Guard. 
As a part of the College to Lt. Walsh said she believed Career Days sponsored by the that success in the Coast Guard St. Mary's Student Government can provide a woman with a several career women discuss­knowledge of her leadership ed their fields of interest here abilicy and her own self reli­yesterday. Women represent­ance. She stated that the mg a wide and varied range of academic and physical training jobs came to St. Mary's to gives a woman a sense of discuss both the advantages accomplishment not found m and problems that students will ordinary professions. face in the reaJ world. After graduation from college, 
U.S. 
Coast Guard Civilian a candidata for the Coast Guard Employee, Ouida Bowers and goes into an 18-week officer 

U.S. 
Coast Guard Lt. ].G. training program. Upon corn­Sarah Walsh spoke to stucfents pletior• of 1he program, the 


Young 7jUotes Bible, Supports Carter 
NAIROBI Kenya (A.P)-An­champion of American inter­drew Young said yesterday his ests, and it was strictly in the immediate aim is to help Presi­interest of the United States dent Carter wm re-election. that I felt it was necessary to Beyo nd that, he said recalling talk to the PLO at the United his grandmother's favorite Nations.'' quote from the Bible, "Let the His unauthorized meetingday's own trouble be sufficient with a PLO representative led 
unto the day thereof." to a political storm in the United 
With less than a month to go States and Israel culminating in before his resignation as U.N. his resignation.ambassador takes effect, Young 
Looking to his own future,discussed his plans and his role Young did not rule out a race over the past 30 months in an for the House, where he servedinterview with the Associated for six years, or for the Senate. 
Press on a 5lh -hour flight from But he said his ftcst goal is toCameroon to Nairobi, part of an help the Caner re-election ef­African tour to promote U.S. 
fort.

trade with Africa. "I've always taken by life one day at a time," he said, and his 
F.-ball vendors
plans for the near future in­clude doing some writing and speaking, and in November 
must contact 
probably visiting several Mid­dle East countries, induding 
"at least Israel, Egypt, Kuwait activities office 
and Jordan." . . . 
Would he accept an mvitaUon to meet with Palestine Libera­tion Organization Chairman Yasser Arafat? Student groups who have requ­
"I wouldn't make a special ested space for booths on effort unless I had something Football weekends should con­special to talk a~ut,'' Young tact the Student Activities Of­said. "I don't think of myself fice in LaFortune this week for as a champion of the Palestini­date verification and packet an cause. I think of myself as a instructions. 

Casino decor ignites solar fires 
AUANTIC CITY, N.J. (AP) ­The golden glitter of one of Atlantic City's new casinos is causing an unexpected problem on the Boardwalk. Officials say_ the sun's rays are bouncing off Caesars' new casino hotel and causing fires on the wooden · -­way. Officials say some panels of the angular, plexiglass fa­cade around Caesars' new Boardwalk Regency are warp­ing inward, causing the concen­tration of the sun's rays onto a small area of the Boardwalk. A solar energy professor told fire officials that temperatures in the treated pine planks can reach up to 400 degrees in areas up to 18 inches in diameter. Fire ChiefJoseph Goulker sayd ftcefighters have been called out several times to put out small fires and smoldering wood on the Boardwalk. 
90-rninute speciaJ on the pope's visit, and Father Hesburgh was interviewed by Correspondent Gene Farinet. 
Father Hesburgh and Notre Dame students were interview­ed for an hour-long special produced under ecumenical sponsorship for Chicago's NBC affiliate, WMAQ-TV, to be aired from 3:30 to 4:30p.m. on Oct. 4, the day the Pope arrives in Chicago. 
While the pope is not corning to the University of Notre Dame, those who will be cover­ing his Anerican visit have been. 
ABC-TV starts its series Mon­day on its "Wocld News To­night," and Notre Dame's pres­ident, Rev. Theodore M. Hes­burgh, C.S.C., will be among interviewees of Correspondent Don Farmer on the first seg­ment. Father Hesburgh was interviewed om changes in the American Catholic Church, and Rev. James T. Burtc:haell, C.S.C., professor of theology, on abortton. 
CBS-TV News Correspondent Bill Plant interviewed Father Hesburgh on the state of the American church and on Pope John Paul II, whom Notre Dame's president saw recently as Castel~andolfo, for a net­work specwl the night of Oct. 1. NBC-TV is preempting the "Tonight" show on Oct. 1 for a 

The Air Force has openings for vouny men and women maJoring in ;elected science and engineering fields. Like Aeronautical. Aerospace. General and Electncal Engineenng. Mathematics. Physics and Com puter Technology. 
To help prepare for one of these. Air Force ROTC offers two and four year programs of study which ·.viii defray some of your college costs. 
After completion of the AFROTC requirement. and upon vour grad· uation. you'll be commissioned an officer in the Air Force. Then comes responSibility. experie·nce in your specialty with some of the ~>;st peo· pie and facilities in the WQ!ld. and a mission with a purpose. \ ou11 get excellent starting salary. medical and dental care. 30 days of patd va· 
cation beginning your first year. and more. · 
Look into the Air Force ROTC program right away. See what's in it for you. See how you can serve your country in relum. You11 be glad you put vour major to work on d JOb that reallv counts. 
AFROTC DET. 225 ·unzv; otNotre Dame Captain Davis 

p 0
0 

II 
219} 283 6634 
Galeway Ia a grea1 way ol life. {­
Mary Zimmer, a high school teacher and administrator, spoke about the problems and rewards of her profession. Zimmer, an alumni of St. Mary's, said that while those in her profession are among the poorest paid professionals in this country, they get much personal satisfaction from help­mg children both academically and emotionally. 
Education as a crowded field is ~radually leveling off, accord­mg to Zimmer. "The initial flooding of the market is taper­ing off, '' she added. 

ATTENTION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS! 
graduate becomes a cornmi~­sioned officer. The officer Is required to serve three years of active duty. 
Mrs. Molly Bernard, Director of Religious Studies at SacreJ Heart Parish, discussed her profession. According to Ber­nard it is an ideal job for a woman with a family because it gives constant experie,tce in dealing with children. . 
While Mrs. Bernard :>atd that the job of Religious Study Director is an excellent one for a woman because of her atti­tude, "Men tend to visualize their jobs as 'out thc;re,' some­thing separate, while women tend to make their jobs part of their life style. Chatacisrnic careers are a way of life she said. 
Peggy Donovan is a social worker 
Peg~v Donovan discussed car­eers m community service. She is a social worker who works for the Catholic adoption agency, counsellin~ the unwed mothers and assisting them in making the decision to keep their child or to give it up to an adoption agency. 




The Observer -SportsBoard Tuesday, September 25, 1979 -page 10 
Baseball 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East  
W  L  Pet.  GB  
x·Baltlmore 100  54  .649  
Milwaukee  91  64  .587  9Y2  
Boston  87  6 7  .565  13  
New York  83  71  .539  17  
Detro•l  83  73  .532  18  
Cleveland  79  76  .510  21112  
Toronto  52  104  .333  49  
West  
California  86  71  .548  
Kansas City Minnesota  82 B1  75 7'.:,  .52? .519  4 4  
Texas  78  78  .500  7  
Chicago  68  86  .442  16  
Seattle  65  91  417  20  
Oakland  5:1  103  .340  32  

x • clinched divls•on title 
Yas.crday"s Gama California 4. Kansas City 3 Only game heouleo 
ho.,·. uamas . Toronto (Stieb 7-7) at Boston (Stanley 16-10). (n) Detroit ~ ' 15-7) at Baltimore (Stone 11-7). (~I
t;levela• . . . .... ,.r9) at New York (Beattie 3 l). (n) Seattle ( lannister 9--15) at Milwaukee (Sorenese• 15-13). (n) Chicago (Kravo: 13-131 at Minnesota (Zahn 13-6). (n) Oakland (Kmyman 7--6) at Texas (Alexander 5-7), (n) Kansas City (Chamberlain 4·3) at California (Barr 1(}-12), (n) 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
East 
W L Pet. GB Montreal 94 61 .60F Pittsburgh 94 62 .60:1 V2 St. Louis 84 71 .542 10 Philadelphia 81 76 .516 14 Chicago 78 78 .500 16V2 New York 51 98 .368 37 
We• Cincinnati 88 68 .564 Houston 86 71 .548 2v2 Los An:.Jeles 7t 80 .487 12 San fr~~CISC'l ()9 87 .442 ; 19 San U•tl\l• 65 91 .417 23 Arlanta 63 92 .406 ·24 112 
Yeste111ay's Games Nc. {c.,, k 3 Chlcaao 1 Pittsburah 5-6, Montreal 2-7 
Atlanta 5·9. Houston 4-1 St. Louis 7. Philadelt;>hia 2 
Only games scheduled 
Today's Games 
New York (Hausman 1-6 and Scott 1-2) at Chicago (McGlothen 12·13 and Caudill (}-7), 2 
Houston (Richard 16-13) at Atlanta (Boggs (}-1), (n) Montreal (Sanderson 9--7) at Pitts· burgh (D. Robinson 8·7), (n) St. Louis (Fulgham 9--7) at Phila· delphia (Larson 1--0), (n) San Diego (Shirely 7-16) at Cincinnati (Norman 11-11 or Bonham 9-6), (n) Los Angeles (Sutcliffe 16-9) at San Francisco !Halicki 5-7), (n) 
Volleyball 
Saint Mary's at Tri-State, 6:30p.m. 
Field-Hockey 
Goshen at Saint Mary's, 4:30 p.m. 

Football  
National Football League  
American Conference East W L T Pet. PF Miami 4 o o 1.000 86 New England3 1 0 .750 116  PA 45 54  

Buffalo 
N.Y. Jets Baltimore 
Pittsburgh Cleveland Houston Cincinnati 
Denver San Diego Kansas City Oakland Seattle 
Dallas 

2 2 o .500 123 91 1 3 o .250 97 137 0 4 0 .000 49 73 
Central 4 0 0 1.000 95 54 4 0 0 1.000 91 63 3 1 0 .750 86 98 o 4 0 .ooo· 65 111 
West 

3  1  0  .750  76  64  
3  1  0  .750 111  72  
2  2  0  .500  79  54  
1  3  o  .250  51  109  
1  3  0  .250  87  99  
Nationa' Lunfarence  
East  
3  1  0  .7501 ?4  80  
(N D) del. Lundstrom and Komarnlck, 


Philadelphia 3  1  0  .750  76  58  
Washington  3  1  o  .750  98  60  
St. Louis  1  3  0  .250  76  77  
N.Y. Giants  0  4  0  .000  44  94  
Centra•  
Tampa Bay  4  o  0  1.000 102  58  
Chicago Minnesota  2 2  2 2  0 0  .500 .500  68 74  65 96  
Detroit  1  3  0  .250 74  112  
Green Bay  1  3  0  .250  62  73  
Wast  
Atlanta  2  2 0  .500 94  88  
Los Angeles  2  2  0  .500 63  78  
New Orleasn  1  3  0  .250 97  115  
San FranciscoO  4  0  .000 80  106  

Yesterday's Game Cleveland 26, Dallas 7 


"It's been a lot ·of fun theseAP names OSU's Schlichter three years," said Franks. "I love it here, it's a great city. I have no regrets except that I'm sorry we didn't win a pennant."
BiR Ten Pla_yer qfthe Week 
CHICAGO (AP) · Ohio State quarterback Art Schlichter Monday was named Big Ten Player of the Week on offense by The Associated Press for his 
ND--SMC skiers to organize 
The ND/SMC Ski Team will hold its organizational meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Theater, LaFortune. All inter­ested, including veterans, must attend. If you cannot possibly attend, call Mike Quinlivan at 232-7388. 

The Daily Crossword 

... Irish top
Tennis 
Friday's Women's Results NOTRE DAME 5, WHEATON 4 
[continued from page 12] 
Singles 
State had a runner on second
No. 1 • Alice Wright (W) del. Cindy Schuster, 6-2, 6-0. 

with one out in the bottom of No. 2 · Linda Hoyer (NO) del. Lisa I the seventh and their number Barber, 6-3,6--3. 
two, three, and four batters 
No. 3 • Jane Nelson (W) def. Paddy 
coming up, but Bartlett bore
Muller/, 6-2, 6·2. No. 4 -Susan Rossen (W) def. Carol 
down and stopped them on a 
Shukls, 6-4, 6--3. 
popout and a strikeout. All in 
No. 5 · Molly Walsh (NO) def. Lora 
all, it was a good effort.'' 
Lundstrom, 5·7, 6·3, 6·2. 
"Of the 13% innings we
No. 6 · Stasey Obremsky (N D) def. Robin Komarnlcki, 6·2, 6·3. 
played Sunday, I'd say we played 11 very good ones. We got the pitching and we got the 
Doubles 
No. 1 · Wright and Nelson (W) def. 
defense when we had to. And
Hoyer and Schuster. 6--0, 7·5. No.2-Mary Legeay and Tina Stephan 
once again, the experience we 
(NO) del. Barber and Rossen, 6·4, 6·2. 
had through close competition
No.3· Sheila Cronin and Laura Cronin 
is a big plus."
The Irish face that same
6-3, 6-2. 
Valparaiso team in their home
Saturday's Results NOTRE DAME 6, N. ILLINOIS 3 
opener at Jake Kline field this 
Singles 
No. 1 · Linda Muller (NI) def. Schuster, 6-2, 6·3. No. 2 Hoyer (NO) del. Rene 
Franks 
Granthan, 6-1, 7·5. . No.3· Ann Roth (NI) def. Mullen, 6--2, 
•
6--1. No. 4-Shukis (N D) def. Carla Surma, 
restl(ns 
6-2, 6·3. No. 5 · Stephan (NO) def. Carin Byckowskl, 6·2, 6·2. 
as
No.6· Mary Legeay (NO) def. Wendy 
mana~er
Basista, 2·6, 6-1, 6-0. Doubles 
CHICAGO (AP) -Herman Franks, who indicated for more
No. 1 · Hoyer and Schuster (NO) del. 
than a month he would not
Grathan and Surma, 6--3, 6-7, 6-4. No. 2 -Legeay and Stephan (N D) del. 
return to manage the Chicago 
Byckowski and Conkovic. 6-4, 4·6, 6-3. 
Cubs in 1980, officially resigned 
No. 3 · Muller and Roth (NI) def. 
Monday and coach Joey Amalfi­
Walsh and Obremsky, 7·5, 3·6. 6-3 
tano was named interim mana­ger. 

ACROSS 23 Investment 47 Affirmative 12 &>liever: "First in profits votes suff. banquets, 26 Rocky 48 Debt payment 13 M.D.'s tests but the­pinnacles of sorts 21 Food fight" 29 Canopies 52 Covered regimen 
7 Alms box 30 Spanish with blood 22 Kilns 11 Income or cheer 53 Particle 24 School org. 
excise 31 Was in 54 CPA's task 25 With a­14 Jim Palmer session 58 Purpose of salt 15 Last 32 Those who 59 Borge, 26 Ripped 16 Hockey's speak for one 27 Butterine 
Bobby 36 August 60 Tried hard 28 Army grp. 17 Is forbid­38 Subject of 61 Born 31 Frozen rain den to a debate 62 Brain 33 See in the 18 Business 39 Remote passage distance 
date: abbr. 42 Place for 63 Rang 34 Ploy 19 Streamlet bears 64 Norse 35 Collections 20 Liquid fat 44 Coastal war god 37 Irate 21 "-et mon clock­65 Cots 40 Alive 
droit" setting 66 A.k.a. 41 Given new 22 "-can you letters Dillon building see" 45 Nonspecific regulations DOWN 42 April15, 

Nutty e.g. 2 Russian sea 43 Yale man 3 Trigono-46 Fee setters 
metric 47 Frog or function toad 4 Builder-48 IRS man uppers 49 Moolah 5 Actress 50 Command Massey 51 Western 6 Profit movie 7 Looks for 55 Kansas 8 Does again senator 9 Montague 56 Singer Burl enemy 57 Spreads hay 10 Buchwald 59 Fish in 11 Anatomical way trunks 60 Resort 

Friday at 3:30 p.m. An alumni game pitting past Irish baseball starts against the present squad is slated for Saturday morning at 9 a.m. Irish coachtng legend 
] ake Kline  will  return  to  his  
namesake  field  to  pilot  the  
alumni team.  

. .. Tennis 
[continued from page 12} 
Northern Illinois. 
But  the  Port  Clinton,  OH  
native  was  not totally pleased  
with  her  performance.  "I  

wasn't as aggressive as I would like to have been," she said. "I think I was a little too timid, a little too conservative. But I guess when you win, you can't complain.'' 
Molarit 
y 
by Molinelli 
performance in Saturday's 
45-2? victory over Washington 
State. 

Schlichter, a 6-2, 200 pound sophomore, completed eight passes for 233 yards includmg two touchdowns, one of which covered 86 yards to Calvin Murray for a Buckeye school record. Schlichter also rushed for 26 yards including a six-yard touchdown run. 
Schlichter won over several other candidates who had out­standing_ efforts. They included Mark Herrmann of Purdue, Mike Holmes of Illinois, Tim Clifford of Indiana, Mark Brammer of Michigan State and ] eff Cohn of Northwestern. 
Herrmann was the catalyst in Purdue's 28-22 victory over Notre Dame, completmg 14 passes for 158 yards and two touchdowns. 
The Cubs finished fourth in 1977 with an 81-81 record and were third last year with a 79-83 mark. They were 78-77 under Franks this season. 
... Runners 
[continued from page 12} 
confident we can make the top three; if we do, I'll be satis­fied." 
Piane now faces the task of evaluating his top talent and selecting the seven who will represent the Irish in their first competition. What makes his job so difficult is that qualified runners will have to watch at least the first meet from the sidelines as only seven runners can be entered. 

--~-~----~----~-------­

All classified ads must be received by 5:110 p.m. , two days prior 
to the issue in whl~;h the ad Is run. Till D.._. office will accept 
classifieds Monday thrOUQh Friday, 10:110 a.m. to 5;110 p.m. All 
classlfieds must be pre-pa1d. either In person or through the mail.
Classifieds 

tix. Willing to negotiate USC, SC tix and
Wanted far research project: couples[llv­
cash. Call Bob at 3230.
lng together unmarried. [ Confidentiality
Notices -­assured. Call John 3805. Need 8 tlx for South Carolina game. Call Mark or MIke at 289-6543. Used Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7. Ralph Ca~erson 1303 Buchanan Rd. Need 2 GA or student tlx any HomeFor Sale 
Niles. 683-2 B. 
Game for Wedding Present. Call Dan 1621.
RPM Productions announces the booking -----------------­of the band for the first time ever In this 69 Dodge Coronet. Green, automatic 
National Bank of Parents wlllln~ to pay
area for your formals and special occa-Extra clean. Must sell. $650 Call Anne big bucks for 2 MSU Ga tlx. all Bill
sions. Call Jim at 277-1891. 7043 between 9-5. 
234-3301. 
Volunteers Needed: I have one G.A. ticket to sell for the South 
1) Tutor high school sophomore in Carolina Game, Reasonable price. Call Need 3 G.A. tickets for Michigan State English. Tuesdays and Thursdays after 3 Chris 4640. Call1803. • 
2) p.m. Tutor 31ndian Ceta Program students, The crate shipment has arrived! Official I need 4 G.A. tickets for GA. Tech. Call 
ages 21-28, studying for the G. E. D. test. "Peaches" record crates are now In stock Rick at 272-4120 (6-11 p.m.) Indian persuasion preferred but not at all four River City Record locations. 
required. Great for books. records, tapes, maea· Badly need at least 3 MSU GA tix. Will 
3) 40 vofunteers needed to serve food to zines, plants or whatever! Visit R R, be s=ed to Iran if I don't get them. 
senior citizens for the Harvest House 50970 U.S. 31 North, next to Al's Super Call ask for Pat. Festival on October 16. Would be needed Market. Open 10-10 7 days a week. 
11:15 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Transportation 277-4242. Need GA tickets for Southern Cal game. provided for tnos~ without. 
Will pay big bucks. Call Jane 283-8012. Contact Volunteer Services -7308. For Sale: 1969 Nova -only 55,000 miles. 
Engine 9body in great shape. Must see Need one ticket to Tenn. Desperately!! Liberal Protestant Church wants to Invite to believe. Call evenings-Jim 234-2862. 
Call Mary Anr 14-1-4347. 
You to join us for Church School 3:30 and worship 10:45. First Christian Church on Two airline V2 price coupons $45 Each , the corner of Eddy and Jefferson 1 mile 277-1115. south of N.D. campus. Rides available: call 289-2417 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday For Sale: 2 American Airlines Coupons ­thru Friday. Call Arlane 6804. 
TO WHOMEVER REMOVED THE For Sale: comics new and old. DC, PURSE FROM THE STUDENT UNION Marvel, Warren. Star Trek Movie OFFICE: PLEASE RETURN MY Calendar, Star!~ Space Art book. 
CHECKBOOK, GLASSES, WALLET Discounts. 287-6 20 evenings and week-ETC ... NO QUESTIONS ASKEDII [THE ends. ROBT. PALMER TIX ARE A B·DAY 
PRESENT.] PLEASE! Kris Kringle specials from Avon. Lovely ~ifts at low pnces for your dorm mates. ree catalog and samples. 287-6920 or 233-6581 evenings and weekends~ 
Lost&Found 
Tickets 
Lost ' red wallet containing photos and ~'vi"'~ of I. C. Reward. Call Karen-2179 
--Naad two Georgia Tach Tickets • Please-Lost Gold Cross Pen with name Will pay Top $. Call AHAB at 8857. en~nived, Thurs. Morn. Sentimental 
Va ue. Reward. Call 7854. Need 2 USC Ga tix will pay forty dollars 
par ticket or beat any other offers. Call Lost: 1 pr. glasses (rimless frames) In Jack • 87110. blue case. If found please call 234-6373 
Reward!!! Achtung! Need one GA or student ticket 
for Michigan State game. Call 272-4478 Lost: Abrown leather-like overcoat In the after 5:15p.m. North Dining Hall after the Michigan 
~e last Saturday. If found please call Desperately need 8 GA or student tickets to Georgia Tech. Call Eric 1384. 
Lost: Gold Bracelet Twisted Chain & Need one U.S.C. GA ... a Ia briefly! Call Gold ClrcuJar bar. Friday between 2 and Don 8762. 7 p.m. Call Becky 5779 (SMC) 
. 

I will do anythin' far student and/or GA Lost: Blue Bookbag with suede bottom tlx to MSU and or USC • Please! Call outside Stepan. If found please call Steve 8698 soan!. Marty at 8403. 
Need Michigan St. tickets. Call John Lost: unlined tweed blazer at Goose's 1851. Saturday night. Please call: Kathy ­
2145. Two poor girls desperate to go home early for Oct. break must unl'lad 2 USC student tickets. Best offer for either one or the pair. Maureen 5224 (SMC), Kate 5220 (SMC)
For Rent 
Need G.A. tickets to Georgia Tech. Call 
Joe 8694. Graduate women: Now's your chance to move Into the Grace-O'Hara Town-Desperately need two GA tix for Mich. houses. Available immediately-call Pat, State. Call Tim at 3578 or 3591. 8110. 
Help! D~rately need 2-6 GA MSU Apt. for rent-832 N.D. Ave. 110 call tickets. II pay your price. Call Sheila Jim, 1507 or 287-9872 or Mike, 8382. at 7924. !77.50/month. 
Will pay $60 for two adjacent GA USC Live Free durl"9 Se~tember $77.50 per tickets. Call Mark 1478. mor.th afterwar s. otre Dame apts. ­call Jamie 287-9872. Need Southern Cal tickets. Will ~y top
dollar. Call Joe after 10. 233-60 4. 
Need G.A.'s and student tlx to all home games. Coil Beth 4-1-5710 or Kate 4-1-5220. 
Will trade 4 GA's to Geor~ia Tech for 4 GA's to MSU. Call Jeff 8 64. 
OFFERING ONE USC TICKET fOR ONE MICHIG/I_N STATE-INQUIRE 7879 
LADIES IN DISTRESS DESPERATELY NEED 4-6 GA MSU TIX. CALL PEN NEE OR LAURA SMC -4963. 
$40 for 2 Mlch St. tickets. Call Mary at 4-1-4708. 
For Exchange -Will Trade 2 Southern Cal. Student Tix for 2 GA. Tech. GA tix. Call Bill or Dave 272-1208. 
Please help me out. Need 2Mich. St. tlx. Callaftar 11 p.m. Gran 8113. 
Help! Without tix, 2 "HTH"s won't come. Need 1 Student or Ga tlx for both MSU & Georgia Tech. Call Rick or Mitch at 6721. 
Wanted: 1 USC ticket. Call Chuck 232-5594. 
Have tickets? Will pay$$$ 1or 2 GA any home games. Call 7267, Jackl. 
Need 1 GA USC ticket !1 Call Dan 8387. 
Attention: Will trade 1 student USC ticket for any 2 badly needed MSU tlx. Terms negotiable. Ro;e 4037 (SMC) 
I need a student or G.A. ticket for the Gaata Tach game. Call Elizabeth at [SM ] 5146 $ $ I will pay your price $ $. 
Desperate Megabucks for anyone who can sell me 2 A to Mich. St., Georgia Tech, or S. Cal. Call 283-1951. 
6 7 -a risky listing of the Ryan dating
Raveled over career choice? Unravel the
Need 2 tix to the U.S.C. Game. Call service.
decisions at College to Career Days, SMC
collect In evening (303) 722-9921. '70 Alumnus. September 23-27. Fl~ht Communlsn!Mercena ies needed b~ 
R odeslan Govemment 1we· re bi-racial $$Wanted: 2 G.A. tix for 2 D.S.D nuns. now) to combat guerilla forces backed by
TONIGHT IS THE NIGHT WILD NOTRE Either Navy or South Carolina. Ann Marxists. Good Pay, Travel, and Fringe
DAME WOMEN!! FIRSl' ANNUAL 277-4976. FRUIT OF THE LOOM RAiDI MEET Benefits. For more info. , Call Foreign
TONIGHT AT BPM IJETWEEN FARLEY Suicide Exchange office, or write: 
AND B.P. COME ON GIRLS,WE'RE 
ian Smit~ sBoys

Need 3 GA tix for Mich St. Call1803. ENTITLED TO A UTILE FUN TOOl! 
Need 2or 4 Michigan State Tickets. Call Ed 1222. 
Desperately need 1 student or GA ticket to the Michigan St. game. Call Dave at 6939. 
For Rent: Campus view apartment for rent w/ 3 male students. $100/month all Desperately need 5GA tix to Tennessee! Needed! 4 MSU r;eneral Admissions. utilities Included. Call Ken 1758. Call John at 3656. 
Name the Price! Call "Mike" at "Gooses's" 233-1115. 
Desperate! Need two GA Michigan State tickets! Call Jane 6372. Nead 2 USC GA tlx will pay forty dollars per ticket or beat any other offers. call
anted 
Desired: Any 1 USC ticket. Call Joe at Jack 87110. 8192. 
Desrvrately need 4 M.S.U. tickets. Call Bartender. Walters, and waitresses. Desperately need tickets for Michigan Kat y 4-1-5764. Apply In person. Seniors inquiries only. State Game. Call Ruth 272-3513. 
•<"• 

China Garden Restaurant, 900 Ireland 
Need 1 student or 2 GA tickets for Road. Will trade an~ home ticket (excep. MSU) Georgia Tech and/or USC. Will trade tlx and$ for 1 U C. Call 8164. or pay cash. 277·5261.
Part-time help wanted, all shifts-cooks, waitresses, busboys. Denny's, U.S. 31 
Let's rt serious. If you have 4 MSU Ned Needs 2-4 GA tickets for MSU. Mr
N. 277-()()22, ask for Mrs. Sharp or Mrs. 
GA's an I have the money you want. &Mrs. Ned are coming down. Will payEller. 
Call Jeff 8764. Good. 8897~ 
Colonial Caterers at Century Center Will pay good for ND·MSU tickets. Big BucksIll need two GA tickets to anyneeds part time bartenders, busboys, 287-2268, 8 p.m. -10 p.m. homa gama. Call Dave at 8782 nowll 
cashiers, walters, waitresses and kitchen personnel. Breakfast and Luncheon help 
Hey People! I only need 1 U.S.C. ticket. Must have 4 GA tickets for Mich. St. willneeded most. Apply in kitchen across Call Tom at 3661 anytime. 
pay your price. Call Rick 8698.
from entrance 4 In rear of Century Center. Desperately need Georgia Tech Tickets Need student tickets for Georgia Tech. Call Dick 1224. Also, student or Ga tickets to USC. Mary
I need aride home on 9!2Bn9 to Toledo. 
Ellen 277-4966.
Please call Mary 4084. Need 4 GA tlx for any game except Carolina. 3641. 'i Need you!!! ...to sell me one Michigan
Need United V2Fare Coupons. Brian 
State ticket -student or GA. Please call
118693. Help! I will be castrated if I do not have 4 Debbie at 6888. 
MSU tickets by Saturday. Call 3276. Female roommate wanted at Campus Need 1-4 Michigan St~te Tickets. Will '{jew $100/rnonth 472-6244 In desperate need of three student MSII 
pay big$. Call Bill at 287-6325. There were five arkies from Rome 
From Italy to Eire they did roam Need tickets to an~ home football game, When those warm Goonies arrived expeclally Navy. all1740. Boy, were we surprises 
Now think what we can do at the Dome? Need 2GA tix to Georgia Tach. Call Rob 234-5821. Barb, Lori. Mary, etc. 
Thanks for the party Friday night. It $ Need many Michigan State Tix $ Call was agreat present. But Barb. where's John, 1721.$ my dinner? 
Brian Need 2 Michigan State GA tickets. 277-3540. Molson Nlte • Tonight at Goose's 8-10 l .60, 10-12 ! 75. Need 2 MSU' Tix. Call 2n·0333. 
Earthquake-Help some Seniors. Our parents are Single or double dip? Love ya' finally, coming to NO and we need MSU Rob 
GA t x. Wlli Pay our Sr. Bar money!! Call Dan or John at 13322. Dear Mom· 
Thanks for the TLC on Triday. Sorry for Need 2 Michigan St~te GA .tix Mike -the trouble. 1623. Love 
Stargazer 

-1 really need 3-4 MSU ~ix. (G .A.) Please -P.S. Still wann frolic? call Diane. 17906'' Help!! Desperately need any number of Any Arts & Lette-rs student wanting to be 
M.S.U. tickets Call Mike or Jim, 234-on the UnivP.rSity Academic council 
6348. should call Mary, 1312. 
Wanted: 2 or mor~ tickets, must be To the blonde-haired girl In the blue ~rouped togRther for any N.D. home overalls at Grace's mass: I still need ootball games -Willing to buy at some lyrics. Drop a note to Joe, 922. premium price. Cal' 287-3311. 
Eva, Treci, Michelle, and Cindi, Does anyone out there have 1 Ga tix for Thanks for making the ride such a great Michigan State? If you do, Please call time. Next til"le we'll rent a van. Andy at 1959. Thanks. Jim, Drew, &Joe. 
P.S. the cookies were great. money no obja&t!! Ner.d 2or 4 GA tickets for Georgia Tech. Bltz 6931. Young and Lois ­
-Your smiling faces far out shine the Need Student Tickets for Southam Cal. ~olden dcmb, you company is pure Bltz 6931. lattery. (Except when you are in rotten 
moods.) Thank you for the flower. Will 1 need 2 G.A. tickets for the U.S.C. visit soon. Game. Call Bill at 82F8. Kevin(1') 
Need GA's to any home games. Call Finker­4-1-5710. How can I thank you for all the 
''advertisements''? Just wait until Need 1ticket for Michigan State (G.A. or December student) Call Ann 277·4976. Sterls 
Golden Ala at Goose's! Molson ! .60
$$$Need 2-4 Ga tix to any home game. 
8-10, ! 75 10-12, Posters, Signs, Prizes!
Expecially MSU. Call Pat at 1651. $$$$$ Isn't anyone going to congratulate Pana-Need GA tickets for South Garollna and rna? He Just turned 21 and become a
Navy call 1877 
resident o the Great State of Maryland (2 years ahead of time)! 
Wanted: Tickets to Mlrhi!)an State ~arne. Willin~ to pay the going price.
Personals 
all Joe at 28 -27~ after 6.00. 
To my en~eering pals,
Molson • For the Pure "Canada" of lt. (Koz, the reeker, Jerry & Larry)
Tonight at Goose's! 11-10 -!.60, 10-12 • Thanks for the camping equipment. You 
!.75. guys are great. 
Mickey, Overly tall sophomore male desires This Is it!!!!!!! intense companionship with female pos­25 to go! U.F.S. sassing unusual personality. In return for Car. and Va. responding to this ad, he will overpower you with his maniacal myrth and he mayWhat can you get for a dollar? A dollar even demonstrate to you his magic tricks 
will only buy you aphone call home If you by pulling quarters from strange places of live In Mishawaka, but don't talk for more your body. If for some reason this than three minutes. 
a~eals to you -then call Mark Davis at 
1947 Grand Central Station .~ew York, N.Y. 10017 
Tim & Kevin, Thanks for the road trip Saturday -Betsy Baldyexcept for the game, it was great! Happ~ 21st from Mickey, Jelly Bean,Farley's Angels Bartha omew, and your little wierdo from 
P.S. Landshark... Keenan. 
G.M. Felix O'Cieary, You're a frozen fire: you're my one You and yot: keeper are the greatest. desire. Midnight Express "Ralph" 
Dee Dee & Petey, Hapoiness forever to Mike Kelley is so cu~e! (See Mike, 1told this young Roman conceived among the you we would!) ruins. 
Sandy & your moral Supporter The Godmother 
Thanks to all who made b~ 20th special: Need ride to Pittsburgh weekend of 
To Rick and gigi -for the ootball (and to Friday, October 5. Will be happy to share all those who autographed It) Anne -for driving and expenses. Please call Beth at the candy and the pelican sunglasses, 8098. Brian -for the Lancers (it maoeu~ for the shot). Jean for the Popov. lchael, Mo Cogan-Brian, Mark and Graham-for buying me Welcome to legality! beers In Goose's (amazing that I could Apt. 207 remember who did), Cathy -for the $, Mark -for my bracelet and Wendy's. Monotheistic Doctrine of Reincarnation In (and Chris for the pleasure of your the Torah, the Prophets and the Gospels. company (cough choke)), Jotes -for the Write: The Truth of Islam, P.O. Bo~ apples, stolen silverware, ancl the toilet 4494, outh Bend, Indiana 46624. paper (you too. Brenda), 201 BP and Meegs ·· for Kidnappi,, me to paly Canadian Nlte at Goose's! Molson drinking games (with v.ater?), Marty, Golden I .60 8-10, l 75 10-12 Be There! Steve, Bill(and Tim In absentia) -for taking me out Saturday night, you guys Campus Kenned/80 Campaign orgar.iza­are the greatest. What do I do for an tiona! meeting, hursday 9 p.m., Uttle encore? Theatre, Lafortune. For Info. call Paul 
MB Lewis 8951. 
The "Elusive Paddlefish" ar9 gc~!hering Katie in Lewis, Wednesday, Seot 2&1[ 8:oo p.m. in It must have been a long tennis match ~rg little Theater. Be there, Sat. night. I didn't know the lights stayed 
on until 5 a.m. 
~-~ 

~ 
--. --~ ~ r--' •• -~ ..,' -­

Tuesday, September 25, 1979 -pa~e
SRorts 
Irish top Valparaiso, ISU; h1ke fall record to 4-1 
by Bzll Ma-quard doubleheader with Indiana 
Sport~ Writer State, dropping the opener 10-5 
and clinching the nightcap 2-1. Balanced ~irring and consist­''Although we fell behind ent pitching pa~ed the Irish early, the team never really baseball team ·~ · ? ' weekend gave up and fought back to the as Notre Damt upped its fall point where they almost tied record to 4-1. the game,'' offered Kelly. 
Pitchers John Eben and "We had a couple of defensive Mike Kenalian comb;ned to lapses which hurt us. Against a hurl a 3-1 onc-i.:.ter at Val­team like the Sycamores, who paraiso on Fndc.,. as eight of the execute so well, you often pay nine Irish rrter reaced base. for your mistakes.'' 
·'Ebert ,)irched an except­Notre Dame spotted the ional gar.lt, · · commented Insh Sycamores a 7-0 lead after four head CC' · ·h T~..., Kelly. "He innings, but foug-ht back with a had a no-hmer through six five-run, five-htt outburst of inning· , :-tmdug out eight men their own in the fifth. The Irish and 01 ·. w;;~king two. I hated put -nen on second and third to tak'" Ltm u11t, but this early in ... .,. one down in the sixth, but rhe season I don't like to push failed to score while Indiana our pitchers roo far. John had State picked up .wc:c: runs in already thrown 80 pitches and the bottom of the fr<~rnp he agreed he was tired so we ''Deasey pitchec much 1etter took him our.'' than the score ···~·~.ltes,'' 
Mark Simendinger led the noted Kelly, now in his fifth Irish hit parade against the year as Irish mentor. "He Crusaders with three singles in slipped behind on a few batters 
four trips to the plate. and that hurt him.'' Notre Dame's baseball team 
On Sunday, the Irish split a The Irish rallied in the second to_pped both Valpo and ISU over 
game to clinch a tough 2-1 
decision as Bob Bartlett went 
the route with a two-hitter Thf'X-country lone run he surrendered was In _field hocke_y 
unearned. 

runners 
For the third game of the weekend the Notre Dame of­fense puncheel out ~ ight hits, 
Taylor edges Notre Dame 
with Jim Motagano's double 
and singk 111 lou1 trips the offensive highlight of the night­bv Caro(yn Carson from then on . ...:1,, Thorner put ience gained shall be a benefit cap. Yet it was Mark Simf'ncl Sports Wnter Taylor on tht sc.:oreboard with for us that we will realize later, 
by John Smith inger's RBI single in th top of her first goal tu "". game and as hockey is a game of eleven Sports· Writer the se••f"nth which gah Nuul The Notre Dame football team later in the second half scored players, not separate units of Dame irs winning 2-1 edge, was not the only team to fall the game-winning goal. Karen offensive and defensive 
The cross-country team held after the HJ"h knotted the score victim to an Indiana team Vitko scored an msurance goal squads.'' their most important tune-up at one-a.l! ~n inning earlier. Saturday, as the field hockey in the middle ot the second half. The Irish defense played well for the regular season last "To come back and win after team suffered a 3-1 loss to ''With each game our .Players overall, as evidenced by the low Friday afternoon, the annual losing the first game of a Taylor University. are gaining a very posittve and number of penalty corners and time trials. The squad ran a doubleheader 10-5 on the road The goal came cohesive ar ri tued," said Notre only five shots on goal. Hotvedt four mile route over the Notre says somethng about the early in the first half, scored by Dame coach Astrid Hotvedt noted that the team needed Dame golf course. Afterward, team,'' s~iled Kelly. "Indian~ veteran Pat r~" '"<"ll, assisted after the game. "We had the work on "specific defensive Coach Joseph Piane indicated by teammate K;.r!h; Ray. opportunity to allow more plai skills like tackling and convert­
tune-up 

[continued on page 10]
that he felt his team was ready Taylor cont1 u•·~ u the scoring ers into the game. The exper-ing the ball to offensive play.'' The Irish hope to earn their
for the upcoming Notre Dame 

first win this Friday when theyInvitational meet, which will be face Marion College followedheld on October 5. 
0

Mary's volleybal~ coa~.-h ~;:.iiiiiii"iiiBiiieiiiaiiiuiii·niiigiiiithiiieiiimiiiiiii 1 
Piane was especially fleased with the performance o five of his runners who finished under  SMC volle_yba ll team st~:tfers three losses  hy DePauw University in a doubleheader on the astroturf at Caniet hdd.  
the 20-minute mark. Those five: Tony Hatherly, Marc Novak, John Filo~a. Carl Bicic­chi, and Charlie Fox, were not the only optimistic points for Piane. Returning runners from last year's team such as Pat Sul­livan and Mike Maney, did not compete in Friday's trials.  by Kate Huffman Sports Writer Saint Mary's volleyball team suffered three defeats this week in as many matches. Last Tuesday, the squad fell prey to a strong team ttuuJ Hope College. The P• '1.-~ tatt- In the second contest, the Belles jumped out to an impres­sive 9-0 advantage over Purdue. After a few side-outs, however, the Purdue-Calu'llent team began to chip away at St. Mary's lead and eventually went on to take both games from the Belles, 16-14 and 15-6.  resses. "The team is young," she said, "but I am still very optimistic about the season because the team has a great desire to do well.'' Murphy is still looking for a team leader to emerge who will instill a tough, competitive attitude which the squad has lacked thus far.  Rose collects 200th hit for 1Oth time  
Another man Piane is counting on a great deal is freshman  ed off the match looking , ery impressive, but the Hop~.-Col- Despite the teams poor per­fo~mance thus far, Murphy is  The Belles hope to notch their first victory of the season  PHILADELPHIA  (AP)  
Aldo  Bartolini.  Bartolini did  lege  team  rebounded  after  a  sull  confident  the  squad  will  tonight  when  they  play  at  Pete Rose of the Philadelphia  
not run Friday, but he figures to challenge for one of the top seven spots. Hie: credentials include being a member of the Canadian National Junior Cross Country team.  tough second game to finally ovenake St. Ma ' · ~ v scores of 1S-9, 12-15, anc 15-r. Offensively fv. .ae Belles, Kathy Monahan again was effective at the service line,  fare better as the season prog-Tri-State U n i v e r sity . T • d kseflfl1S squa squea past  Phillies becane the first vlayer in major league history to get 200 hits in 10 different seasons when he singled to right-center field with two out in the second inning against the St. Louis  
'­ An important name hereto­fore unmentioned is Chuck Aragon. Piane expects Arago.~ to be a . major factor on the team. Aragon was on th'· '-·  scoring three aces in the match, Amy Terry combined stronghits with aggressive play for an average of 30 percent kills on spike attempts.  Wheat fl •Q 1fl The best way to rate  5 4 t • -UpSe Wlfl any courts wa~ very rough."  Cardinals Monday night. Rose's 200th hit, on an 0-1 .ritch from Cards right-hander PeterVuckovich, enabled him to break the record he had shared  
two-rnile relay team tha piPr:~rl  On Thursday, St. Mary's was  team is to rate its performance  Saturday,  the  lrtsh  downed  with the legendary Ty Cobb.  
fifth m last year's Nl ~  frack  paired  with  Purdue-r::lhliH'nt  against top notch competition.  visiting  Northern  Illinois  6-3,  Only 27 major league flayers  
and Field Championship~ "Tr'c; all there, nuw ll ,,  .Jwn  and host St. Joseph's College in a triangular meet.  Notre Dame's women's tennis team had a rough test this  running their current winning streak to five straight matches  have managed four o more 200-hit seasons and only se\en  
....'1  weeks of gcw:Jd tra:ning,"  In  the  first  match  of  the  wct"k•·ncl and past with flying  after a season opening loss to  have  done  it  more  than  six  
sail" :1  pleased Piane after the  evenin~,  St. Joseph's was able  0lors.  Depauw.  ttmes.  
rna •­ to hat  ·  '"'•lies a disappoint- In  rnday's  showdown  with  The weekend's standout per­ Rose's hit also extended his  
Those two weeks are all that stand between the Irish and  ing 15-5 obviou. '  15-4 Joss. It was . "·' ~h Erin Murphy  last year's regional champions from Wheaton College, the  former for the Irish was fresh­man Linda Hoyer. Playing in  current hitting streak to 22 games, tops in the major lea­ 
their  invitational  meet.  Last  that  1her team  lacked  the  Irish snuck away with a thrilling  the  number-two  singles  spot,  gues  this year.  Seattle's  Dan  
year, solid  Notre Dame finished a seventh out of over 50  moment11m and aggressive atti­tude it needed to win. "St. Joe  and impressive 5-4 win. Coach Jory Segal was thrilled with her  Hoyer won both her singles matches and teamed with Cindy  Meyer and Texas' John Grubb shared the previous high of 21  
competitive teams. This yeat Piane is more optimistic, ''I'm [continued on page 10]  got the jump on us, and we never caught up,'' said Murphy who is to her first year as St.  team's performance. "I thou­ght we played really well ag­ainst Wheaton," she said.  Schuster to win the number-one doubles competition against · d[contznue on page 10]  with Rose. Rose had a 44-game hitting streak last year while with the . . R d  

iiiniiiithiiieiiiiiiiriiihiiioiiimiiiiilieiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiCiiiitniiiciiiiriiimiiiaiiiriiiiiiiieiiiisiii.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii• 

J 





