
VOL. XIII, NO. 82 
O'Meara 
releases letter to CLC 
by Pat Toomey 

There will be no housing lottery this year. This news was announced in a letter from Dr. Timothy O'Meara, University provost, to the student body. O'Meara's letter was released at last night's Campus Life Council meeting. 
According to O'Meara, last August's overcrowding will be reduced by more than one half without a lottery. Therefore, students who are eligible for campus housing and who have signed a contract are assured accomodation for next year. 
In the letter, O'Meara also expressed optimism that con­struction of additional on-campus housing will be started by the academic year 1980-81. ' 
Funding is now being sought for this new housing. The University will reapply for a housing loan from the federal government before the June 1 deadline. Discussions with po­tential donors for a new dormi­tory are also being continued. 
At the meeting, it was an­nounced that students who had turned in housing cards might still be abk to move off-campus · without beind fined $250. Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vice­president for Student Affairs, said these students would be 
allowed to plead their case until 
April 1. 
The CLC also discussed campus alcohol abuse at the meeting. Keenan rector Fr. Richard Conyers expressed con­cern about current drinking atti­tudes at Notre Dame. According to Conyers, "Drunkenness is something that shouldn't exist at an academic institution where we're trying to improve our­selves.'' 
... 'Alcohol is just a symptom of the social problems we have on campus.' 
Gene Woloshyn, assistant Student Union director, res­ponded to Conyers' ar~ent by claiming, "Alcohol 1s just a symptom of the social problems that we have on campus. Alcohol is an outlet for these social frustrations." 
The CLC' s discussion on alco­hol soon developed into a discus­sion of the social life at Notre 
Dame. 
The Council voted to have Van Wolvlear and Student Body President Andy McKenna devel­op a strategy to achieve a campus-wide conference on the quality ·of campus living. An alcohol abuse prevention pro­~ was also approved by the 
The problems of false frre alarms on campus and the repre­sentation of off-campus students on the CLC were also discussed. 

byjohn McGrath Senior StaffReporter 
In a letter addressed to the 
student body and read by Andy 
McKenna, Student Body presi­
dent, at last night's Campus Life 
Council meeting, University Pro­
vost Timothy O'Meara revealed 
that there wdl be no off-campus 
lottery. 
O'Meara outlined three points in the letter dealing with the housing situation on campus, the first of which was the announce­ment that all students eligible for campus housing who have signed housing contracts will be assured accomodation ·in campus dormi­tories next year. 
He explruned that an analysis of signed housing contracts indi­cated that the overcrowding of early last semester will be greatly reduced, in his words, ''by more than half,'' without the need for a lottery. 
"This solution would not have been possible without the effor t of those of you who have volun­tarily dectded to move off campus," O'Meara noted in the letter. 
Commenting that the Univer­sity is moving in the right direction, Andy McKenna ex­pressed satisfaction with O'Meara's letter. "I think the patience in waiting for the figures to come in instead of trying to force a lottery in the first semes­ter really paid off," the SBP said. 

Dan McCurrie, president of the Junior Oass, the group which would have been most directly affected by any lottery proposal, was less enthusiastic about the revelation, remarking, ''It's no swprise to me. We've been expecting this since Thanksgiv­ing break. The Administration Last November, the Depart­proposal. . was either going to kick us off or ment of Housing and Urban In the third point outlined in leave us on if they had enough Development denied a request by the letter, 0'Meara disclosed beds left after a lot of us were the University for a $5 million that the University is continuing scared off. '' loan for the construction of a discussions with potential donors 
The second point 0'Meara women's dormitory. of money to be used as a revealed in the letter is the fact O'Meara noted that the dead­supplement to the government that the University will reapply line for the new application to be funds in · construction of the for government funds to be used submitted is June 1, and added planned dormitory. in the construction of a new that he has already contacted In the letter, O'Meara com­donnitory. architects who will prepare the [conlinued on page 6) 
Violence continues as Khomeini takes control of Iranian gov't 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -Backers of Ayatollah States and six Air Force helicopters left bases in Ruhollah Khomeiru strug~led to keep their Europe in case they are needed to bolster the guard revolutionary victory from dissolving into anarchy at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran. yesterday. Bands of trigger-happy civilians At Tehran's Intercontmental Hotel, base for the rampaged jubilantly through Tehran's streets Western news media, Khomeini supporters pro­frring weapons into the air. tecting the hotel fought a gunbattle With insurgents 
Khomeini urged followers to avoid "arson, who tried to force their way in. Nobody was destruction and cruelty." He proclaimed that reported hurt. those indulging in such acts disobeyed "Allah's Another armed group entered the Hilton Hotel orders and are traitors to the Islamic movement.'' and ordered some 400 guests, many of them 
But many bands of armed Iranians, euphoric Americans, to bring their luggage to the lobby to with their new power, appeared out of control on be searched. The guest later were allowed to the first day after the fall of the shah-appointed return to their rooms. government. Newspapers said 3,500 felons escaped from the 
Khomeini aides asked civilians to tum in country's largest prison, 65 miles west of Tehran, unauthorized weapons at local mosques. after insurgests opened the gates Sunday. 
State radio, quoting hospital s_pokesmen, said Two army generals -including th¢ former Sunday's fighting in Tehran killed 417 people and commander of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi's wounded 989. At least 200 other died in earlier Imperial Guard -were killed during Sunday's weekend violence. violence. A third general was found shot dead at 
It was reponed that 150 persons were killed in his home Monday. the north-eastern city of Tabriz and 44 in the Supporters of Khomeini sealed off Tehran's southern city of Shiraz. . . airJ?on, reportedly to prevent officials of the shah's 
There were no reports of viOlence agrunst the reg1me from leavmg the country. estimated 7,000 Americans still in Iran. There was no firni word on Bakhtiar's fate, but a 
In Washington, President Caner said he had highly placed source told The Associated Press he been in touch with the government and ''we stand was under the protection of his old friend Nehdi ready to work with them." At a news conference, Bazargan, prime minister ofKhomeini's provision-Caner said the new government was ''very helpful al ~overnment. Bakhtiar reportedly handed his in insuring the safety of Americans." resignation to Bazargan Sunda}"'after the military 
A contingent of 69 U.S. Marines left the United said it would no longer support Qim. . 

~ ~~ ~­


Tuesday, February 13, 1979 -page 2
News in brief 
Workers stop picketing to mourn colleague 's death 
EL CENTRO, Calif fAP] -Farm workers mourning the death of a colleague shot to aeath on the picket line stopped picketing during a valley-wide work stoppage yesterday as both stdes tried to defuse the volatile Impenal Valley lettuce strike. Marc Grossman, a spokesman for the United Farm Workers Union, said the one-day moratorium was being honored at most of the valley's more than 30 farms Monday while union and non-union workers prepared to pay respects for the 28-year-old union worker killed Saturday. Three men, including two foremen and a worker hired to ptck lettuce cluing the strike, have been arrested for investigation of murder, according to Imperial County sheriffs Lt. Richard Wilson. 
Americans favor amendment for balanced budget 
NEW YORK [AP] -Americans overwhelmingly favor a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced federal budget because they don't trust _politicians to put a lid on government spending, an Associated Press-NBC News poll shows. The AP-NBC New poll found 70 percent of those mterviewed Feb 5 and 6 favor a budget -balancing amendment. Eighteen percent opposed such a move, and 12 percent were not sure. Support for an amendment has slipped in the past three months, however. The current level is 5 points below th_e fmding of the November AP-NBC news poll and 9 points below the December results. 
British strikes-continue 
with no end in sight 
LONDON [AP] -Strikes and. slowdowns by 1.5 million public service workers demanding hefty pay hikes entered their fourth week yesterday with no sign of an end to the nationwide disruptions. The National Uruon of Public employes, one of the four labor unions waging the campaign, said it would escalate actions to retaliate against municipal authorities who called in private contractors to remove mountains of garbage filed in streets. The public service workers are demanding a 42 percent pay hike to boost their weekly salaries from $84.40 to $120. The rejected an 8.8 percent offer from Prine Minister James Callaghan's Labor government, which had been trying to keep a 5 percent cap on salary increases as an inflation-fighting move. 
Boy imitates Superman; plunges seven floors 
NEW YORK (AP)-A 4-year-old Brooklyn boy who had been trying to ''fly'' around the house after seeing the movie "Superman" has died of injuries suffered when he fell from a seventh-floor window. The boy, Charles Green, had been in a coma since slipping from his grandmother's apartment in Brooklyn on Feb. 2. He died early Sunday at Kings County 
'· Hospital. 
Weather 

Ooudy with a 30 percent chance for some light snow today and tonight. Highs tOday in the upper teens to the low 20s. Steady temperatures tonight. Mostly cloudy and warmer tomorrow with highs in the low 30s. 
12:15 pm--ADDRESS, hon. alvin b. rubin, judgeoftheu.s. court of appeals 5th circuit, spon. by thomas j. & alberta white ctr., LAW SCHOOL LOUNGE 
3:30 pm--COMPU1ER COURSE, j.c.l. for disk and tape files, 115CCMB ..... 
_ 3:45pm--FORUM, "law & lawyers in the jewish tradition," nd profs., charles primus, theology & joseph bauer, law, 105 LAW BLDG. 
4:15 pm--SEMINAR, "the genetic basis of physiological variation in a salt marsh plant," ann e. antlfinger, u. of georgia-athens, 278 GALVIN 
6 pm-12 am--MARDI GRAS, featuring jeanne o'meara & mark pros; also, the 4 o'clock combo, S1EPA.."{ CEN'IER 
6:30pm--INITIATION, alpha phi omega, ZAHM BASEMENT 
7 pm--MOVIE, "als die blumen trauer tragen," spon. by nd german club, SA1Elll1E 1 O'SHAG 
7,9,11 pm--FILM, "kentucky fried movie," ENGR. AUD., $1 
8:15pm--RECITAL, rev. patrick maloney, tenor, UB. AUD & LOUNGE 
Associates 
presents-Ruckelshaus 
Memberc-of the Business Associates Program at Saint Mary's will present William D. Ruckelshaus as their main speak­er at a dinaer tonight. 
The Business ASsociates Pro­gram is a recent addition to the College's comprehensive devel­opment program. With Franklin 
D. Schurz, Jr., editor and pub­lisher of the South Bend Tribune, as its national chairman, it is composed of businesses that give unrestricted support to Saint Mary's College. 
William D. Ruckelshaus is a senior vice president of the Weyerhauser Company. He was formerly deupty attorney general and House majority leader in Indiana. 
Between 1970 and 1973 he served in Washington, D.C. as adminstrator of the Environmental Protection Agency acting director of, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and de_puty attorney general of the Uruted States. 
Errat1un 

A special two-part series on Notre Dame to be featured this week on WNIT-Channel 34's Straight Talk, will be aired at 
6:30 and 11 p.m. on Thursday and Friday. It was inaccurately reported in Monday's Observer that the second showing of the specials would be at 11:30 p.m. each night. 
Mullen wins 
contest 

A contest to select a theme for the senior formal was won by Mike Mullen, a senior from Alumni Hall. The theme chosen was "Still Crazy After All These Years," a Paul Simon hit of several years ago. 
By submittins the . winning theme, Mullen WIDS a free dinner at the Moonraker restaurant. 
The formal will be held April 21 at the Palmer House in Chicago. 
FThe Observer 
Night Editor: Sue Wuetcher 
Asst. Night Editor: Mary Pat FJ/is Copy Reader: Kathy Connelly, john McGrath 
Layout Staff: ] ohn Smith Sports Layout: Beth Huffman Typists: Mardi Nevin, Tom Pipp, Pete McFadden, Rosie Rofigers EMT: KT Day.Editor: john Fenv/i 
Ad Layout: DavidE, Wood, Barb Pratt, BUB Photographer: Mark Ricca 
The Observer [USPS 598 920] is 
published Monday through Friday ex­
cept during exam and vacation periods. 
The Observer Is published by the 
students of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 
purchased for $20 per year ($10 per 
semester] from The Observer. P.O. box 
Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second 
class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­
diana 46556. 

The Observer is a member of the 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 

• 
_The Observer_ has room on it's 
ADVERTISING SALES STAFF 
FORAN AGGRESSIVE SALESPERSON 
H interested, call 7471, ask for Bob. Leave your name and phone no. if I'm not in. so 

Lee's ••• $1.60 Pitchers All Night Tonight 

Notice to Seniors 
You are hired or rejected on how xou come across during the interview -not on grades or resume. Wnat help with your job interview? I am willing to 
share my 26 years campus interviewin17 experience with you. For more iiiformation on HOW NOT TO FLUNK YOUR JOB INTERVIEW," send 25 cents and stamped, self-addressed envelope to me, Toby Byrd-Dept. ND, 832 Northlake Drive, Richardson, Texas 75080. 

PRATT &WHITNEY AIRCRAA GROUP 
A division of 
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES 
will be 
ON 
CAMPUS 
February 23 
to interview candidates for attractive opportunities in HIGH TECHNOLOGY 
Consult your Placement Office for degree and field of study requirements'· 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
~\1/,y~''"/~UNITED ~TECHNOLOGIES 

Tuesday, February 13, 1979 -page 3 
Roemer requests ban on alcohol at sporting events 
by Tom jackman incident, and pointed out that StaffReporter ''this is the ftrst time we've had a problem." The decision on whether or not
Dean of Students James 
to prohibit alcohol sales at theRoemer has directed a second Blue line and the Tip Off Clubletter to the management of the next year will be made by an ACCNotre Dame Athletic & Con­committee headed by Managingvocation Center, (Acq, recom­Director John Plouff which re­mending once agam that the sale views the situation annually.
of alcohol at hock~ and basket­Plouff did not predict how theball games, s · cally at the committee might decide, but heBlue Line and tp Off Oubs, be did not believe that the incidentprohibited. Contrary to nunors or Roemer's letter would have anhowever, the Blue line Oub will exceptional influence.
be open to all members this Plouff did point out that it isweekend, Notre Dame's fmal the Blue line Oub's respon­home series of the year. 
sibility to make sure that allRoemer's ftrst letter to the people being served alcohol areAC£ was written at the begin­at least 21, and added that thening of the hockey season. His Oub is "not a place to playlatest recommendation was Chug-a-Lug." Plouff felt thatapparently spurred by an Roemer ''was just being consis­incident involving a Seruor Class tent'' with his previous footballgathering at the Blue line Club stadium drinking directive byat the most recent home series writing his two letters, and saidagainst Colorado CoUege. 
he believes that perhaps a post­The Senior Oass was given 100 game gatherins would provide anpasses to the Oub by the Blue alternate solutton. 
line Oub for its Senior Hockey 
Weekend. Roemer alleges that Roemer said in a shon interview Jerry Castellini, Senior Class that his recommendation states President, distributed the passes that "the Universtiy should not 
indiscriminately, giving out be in the business of selling between 10 and 20 to underage alcohol at basketball and hockey students. later in the night games ... Does it make sense to during the third period of the have people runn.ing upstairs 
game, some incidents occurred during the middle of games to get between students in which police fueled up?" Roemer said he 
had to intervene. Castellini has wrote his second letter following had to write a letter of apology to the senior class ''commotion,'' as the police as a result. he called it. 
The decision to abolish alcohol Castellini would not comment sales rest not with Roemer but on the incident because he did rather with the AC£. However, not want to influence the Blue 
Blue Line Oub President Thelma line Oub's chances of getting a Hessling pointed out that the favorable decision from the ACC, alcohol sales are the Oub's only but he did note that Roemer has scource of revenue, and without never been in the Oub which the sales Oub membership will Roemer admitted 10 the drop greatly, as well as its interview. .income. 
"The diehards will stay," said Hessling, "but a lot ofpeople will leave. The hockey program 
needs all the hefp it can get, and Finance ·ctub it (alcohol sales) is the only source of revenue we have for the things we do for the team, such schedules as the banquet at the end of the year and trophies." 
Career Night
"The Blue line Room is primarily a place where people go The Notre Dame Finance 
to have a beer, socialize, and see Oub has scheduled a "Careers 
people," she continued, "and I in F"mance N~ht" next Monday,personally see noth.ing wrong 7:30 p.m. m Room 122 of with that. Some of the students Hayes-Healy. Those interested shouldn't have been up there, in the career possibilities avail­but the .r>liceman (guard.ing the able to business majors, are students entrance) should have encouraged to attend. 
been checking . IDs.'' Hessling The program will begin withsays she has offered to apologize lectures by speakers from various to Roemer if necessary for the fields of finance. FoUowing the lectures, there will be a reception at the University Oub.
SM C assembly 
lacks quorum 
Saint Mary's Student Assembly met last night but due to the lack of a quorum could not vote on any measure. 
Pall Callahan, chariman of An Tostal, talked with the members present about the planned bud­get for the annual spring festival. 
He also announced · that he received a check of $1500 from Sheila Wixted, Student Govern­ment treasurer, as Saint Mary's contribution for An Tostal. 
The amount had been approved in the original Student Govern­ment budget. The $1500 ftgure represents as increase of $300 over last year's amount. The Student Assembly will meet again Sun. Feb. 18 at 6 p.m. in Regina North. 

Carter pledges cooperation with new Iranian regime 
WASHINGTON [AP]-President established (to control inflation) The president, possibly seek­Caner said yesterday the United are beginning to take hold.'' ing to maintain some level ofU.S. 
States is in very close consulta­The wholesale price increases, arms sales to Iran, said he 
tion with the new Iranian regime he said, supponed his prediction wanted to insure that "Iran is 
and hopes for "a very J.>roductive last fall that ' 'inflation might get m,ilitarily capable of protectin~
and peaceful cooperation" with worse in the shon run before it her independence and her tem­
the strategic country's leaders. got better. '' torial integrity ... " 
In the ftrst U.S. comment since The developments in Iran Nine days before the scheduled 
the fall of the government of could damage the administra­resumption of Israeli-Egyptian
Prime Minister Shshpour Bakh­tion's anti-inflation efforts by peace talks at Camp David, Md., 
tiar, whom he had supponer, reducing oil su.Pplies and driving Feb. 21, the president said that Caner said that ''we stand ready up the domestic price of petrole­''the reality of having a Middle to work with'' Bakhtiar' s success­um products. Caner said the East _peace settlement is one of ors in the new revolutionary cutoff of Iranian oil underscores my fondest hopes and dreams 
government of Ayatollah Ruhol­and my greatest commitment." 
U.S. vulnerability.lah Khomeini. ''A prudent public response He said that ifIsrael and Egypt 
To offset the net loss of 500,000 show enough flexibility and
early and on a broad-scale basis
barrels of Iranian oil daily be­~II ~e sure that_ any interru_e­desire, he would consider con­cause of that country's year of non m our econonuc system will vening another summit confer­political upheavals, the president be minimal in the future,'' he ence with Anwar Sadat and 
urged voluntary conservation said. Menachem · measures by Americans, includ­ing adherence to the 55-mph speed limit. 
' 'The situation is not crucial 
now, it's not a crisis, but it 
cenainly could get worse," Car­
ter said. 

Speaking in measures tones from a prepared statement at the stan of a nationally broadcast news conference, the ,President said the U.S. embassy m Tehran rr::poned that followers ofthe new regime "have been very helpful in insuring the safety ·of Ameri­cans, and we have been consult­ing with them very clasely." 
In the Iranian capital, the new government of Khomeini and Prime Minister-designate Mehdi Bazargan reponed that resis­tance had ended, but that it was 


having trouble controU.ing its own supporters. 
In a second prepared State­ment, Caner· said that although the wholesale price index jumr,ed 
1.3 percent in January, 'all available evidence indicates that the guidelines which we have 

. \ 

The Observer Tuesday, February 13, 1979 -page 4 
Congressional study show-s that Peace Corps screens inadequately 
WASHINGTON [APJ-The Peace Corps fails to adequately screen volunteers, with some candidates being interviewed by telephone and others not at all, according to a new study by the General Accounting Office. 
The GAO, an investigative arm of Congress, also said the over­seas volunteer service fails to give adequate information to volunteers about the conditions under which they. are expected to 
Opens ~nrnn,rrn\Ain plays thru Sunday 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
Prices 
$4.00-$5.50-6.50 
HALF PRICE for ND/SMC Students for 
Thurs 8 p.m. Sat. 12 noon 
Sun. 6:00 p.m. Shows. 
live. 
One costly result has been that "many volunteers are termina­ting service before scheduled completion -frequently within the ftrst months of servtce," the report said. 
And the Peace Cops' personnel turnover rate was three times as· high as that of other federal agencies, the study noted, in }?art because the corps limits the nme its staff members can serve. 

The study was conducted of the Peace Corps office in Washington and its operations in Colombia, Honduras, Malaysia, Afghani­stan and Kenya. Responses were sought from volunteers in those countries from ] uly to September 1977. The study of the headquarters operation was made between ] une 1977 and October 1978. 
The Peace Corps, set up in 1961, has sent about 73,000 volunteers to 88 countries. As of 

personnel left the agency; 52 perc
SCUBA DIVING 
ent of those served three years or less. 
We can llake you a SCUBA DIVER 
The report said the cause of (BaSIC Or Advanced) 
much of the turnover was the agency's ftve-year rule, which
Wed. FEB. 14 ; at &:45 PM 
limits staff employment to two Ro011 2D La Fortune 
2Vz-year contracts, with an. op­tional one-year extension. 
If you are serious about SCUBA , come ready to pay a S30JKI deposit 
questions? Clll Nino, 289-lS 
Students 
to host 
discussion 

The N.D. Juclo Club 
The League of Black Business Students will sponsor a panel discussion on ''Corporate
PRESENTS 
Reponsibility to Minorities" tomorrow rught at 7:30 p.m. in
nus MOVIE IS TOTAllY 
Room 122 Hayes Healy. 

Panelists include Ray Warrior and Lionel Phillips of I.B.M.; William Boswell from Standard Oil of Ohio and Wayne Patrick of American States Insurance Company. 
The discussion is open to the public. · 
last fall, the corps had about
7 PUIUC PERFORiliCES: 

7,000 volunteers and a budget of 
THIS. I P.l. • Fll. I P .1. 
about $84 million..
SAT. 11001, C P.l. IMI I P.l. 

In its response in the report,
SUI. 2 P.l. 1H I P.l. 

the Peace Cops said it was trying to improve the effectiveness of its programs and projects. 
''The ftrst time accepted appli­cants are able to discuss in detail the work they will be doing or the quality of life they will have to endure is a two-day medical and administrative orientation immediately before being sent overseas," the report found. 
Records found that in spring 1977, 5 to 20 percent of the applicants had no interviews with recruiters. In two recruitment centers, the reJ?Ort said, more 
Tickets now on SALE than half the mterviews were conducted over the telephone. 

ACC BOX OFFICE 

The GAO said the Peace Corps' high staff turnover has been a problem since its found­ing. Between ftscal years 1974 and 1977, 578 foreign service 

"Young and old alike can have fun [and lose some money] at ND's Mardi Gras." [Photo by Mike Btgley] 
Plane crash kills two 

Tues and Wed., Feb. 13, 14 7, 9 and 11, Engineering ,A.,d. $1.00 
Tales in American 
The Special double-issue of 
Juggler '79 
is still reviewing manuscripts for publication. Writing about America of special interist. Poems, stories, essays, etc. 
309 O'Shag 3rd floor LaFortune BRIDGEPORT, W. Va. [APJ-A twin-engine Allegheny Airlines propjet with 25 persons aboard flipped over and crashed while taking off from an airport in a snowstorm r.esterday. Two per­sons were killed and at least four were injured, authorities said. 
Many survivors, apparently fearing the _plane would burst into flames, fled in panic through the snow after the accident, witnesses said. The plane did not catch ftre. 
"We had just taken off from the ground and the plane started rocking back and forth and all ofa sudden it flipped,'' said Sally Bishop of Shinnston, W.Va, a passenger who was not seriously hurt. 
"I didn't realize what was going on and all of a sudden we were hanging from the ceiling," she said. 
Dave Shipley, director of pub­lic relations for Allegheny, said the plane came to a rest upside down about 100 feet from the end of the runway at Benedum Air­port. Shipley said it was snowing when the plane crashed and the runway had just been plowed. 
One of the injured was in critical condition at United Hospi­tal Center in Oarksburg, a second was in serious condition and the conditions of the other two were unknown. The remain­ing 19 persons were also being examined at the hospital. 
Allegheny spokeswoman Nancy Vaughan said one of the dead was a crew member, but she said she could not provide either identity immediately. 
The plane, Flight 561, was taking off from this north-central West Virginia city at about 1:10 
p.m. It was bound for National Airport in Washington, D.C., witli. a stop in Morgantown. 
Shipley said the plane, an M-298 twin-engine propjet with a capacity of 28, was carrying 22 passengers and three crew mem­bers. 
Fr. Maloney to sing tonight 
Patrick Maloney, tenor, will 
present a recital of art songs at 
8:15p.m. tonight in the Library 
Auditorium. The recital is a part 
of the Notre Dame concert series 
and is open to the public. There 
is no admission charge. 
Father Maloney is an associate 
professor of music at Notre · Dame. He will be accompanied by Christine Douberteen at the 
p1ano. 
The program includes the 
Beethoven song cycle ''An die 
ferne Geliebte"; five Brahms 
settings of German Romantic 
poetry; a set of songs by the 
contemporary American Richard 
Hundley; and "Tel jour telle 
nuit," a song cycle by the 20th 
century French composer Francis 
Poulenc. 
of either ·institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD
_The Observer_ reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief. . . . Tony Pace News Editor . . . . . . . ... Diane Wilson a5 possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Spons Editor ............ Ray 0 'Bn'tm Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majoriry of the Editorial Executive Editor ....... john Calcutt Fean1res Editor . . . . . . . . . Chris Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Langhen{ls Photo Editor . . . . . . . . . . Doug Chnstian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of the1r authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mil. s per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Ediror . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cackley Production Manager_ ...... Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Saint Mary's Editor ...... FJien Buddy Business Manager ........ } ohn Tucker Mary's College It does nor necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . ..Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rudy 
reflect the policies of the' administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor. . . . . . . . . ... Mike Lewis 
Rhodesian airliner crashes 
SAliSBURY, Rhodesia [AP)-A Rhodesian airliner crashed min­utes after takeoff yesterday from the northwestern resort of Kari­ba, killing all ~9 persons aboard, Air Rhodesia announced. 
Airline officials said they feared black nationalist guerillas had shot down the plane. 
Last Seet. 3, guerrillas claimed responsibility for shooting down another Air Rhodesia plane with a Soviet-made SAM-7 sround-to­air, heat-seeking missile. That plane also went down shortly after taking off from Kariba and 48 persons were killed, including 10 survivors slain on the ground by guerrillas. Eight persons escaped alive. 
Both planes were four-engine turboprop Viscounts. 
Yesterday, the blue-and-white airliner took off smoothly from Kariba, on the border with Zambia, bound for Salisbury, 200 miles to the southeast. 
SG presents OC Night 
Student Government and the Off-Campus Housing Office are sponsoring Off-Campus Night to­morrow at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. 
The purpose of the event is to inform students of services avail­able to Off-Campus residents. 
Representatives of the Off­Campus Office, Student Govern­ment, and Legal Aid Services will be available for consultation. 
Committee -seeks writing 
The Senior Arts Committee is now accepting {>OCIDS and works of fiction for rev1ew. Six readings are scheduled for Senior Arts Festival which will run from Wednesday, March 28 through April4. 
Seniors interested in present­ing poetry, fiction or plays to the committee are asked to contact Nathan Stone at 1100 or Skip Livingston at 1737. 
ND-SMC sponsors party 
The Notre Dame Student Union and the Saint Mary's Social Commission are sponsor­ing the "Screw Your Roommate" Valentine's Day Party tomorrow night at the Mardi Gras at Stepan Center from 8:30 to midnight. 
The live band "Dancer" will play and Fifties ~d Disco d~­cing contests Will be held m addition to a kissing contest to be held during breaks in the music. 
Door prizes that will be awar­ded include tickets to the "Heart" concert, Plitt theatre tickets, Mardi Gras money, and a free dinner at the Boar's Head. 
*****************~
* ,.
: only : : one bay : 
* * 
: l€~t to : 
* * 
: 5CR€W : 
* *
:youu uoommat€: 
• * 
,. * 
..**************.. 
But some six minutes huer a distress call was made and it crashed. Air Rhodesia later is­sued this terse announcement: ••Air Rhodesia rerets to an­nounce the loss o a Viscount aircraft operating flight RH827 between Kariba and Salibruty. It has been established that there are no survivors." 
The announcement said there were ~4 passengers and five crew members aboard. 
Army troops reached the site of the wreckage and found no survivors, airline officials said. 
The first indication at Kariba airport that Flight 827 was miss­ing came when passengers, in­cluding Associated Press corres­pondent Maureen Johnson, on an Air Rhodesia Viscount that took off 1~ minutes later for Salisbury saw three camouflaged soldiers rushing toward a police spotter plane. 
The spotter plane took off, followed by the second Viscount flight. Rhodesia's supreme mili­tary commander, Lt. Gen. Pete Walls, and his wife were aboard the second plane, returnin~ from a four-day fishing vacatton in Kariba. 
Those on the second plane found out about the crash when two stewardesses began sobbing. 
The downed airliner carried men, women and children, most­ly people on holiday who had spent the weekend at Kariba, which features a casino and excellent fishing on Kariba lime. 
AP reporter Fohnson said her flight, instead of swinging left like Flight 827, circled for almost 20 minutes over the giant lake, on the tense border between Rho­desia and Zambia, where the guerrillas have their rear bases. 
Miss Johnson said she had chatted briefly with some of the passengers on Flight 827 before they took off, indudin~ a pretty hostess for British Airways on vacation in Rhodesia. 

Any Undergrad is Eligible to be the ·1979-80 JUDICIAL COORDINATOR Applicatio,.ns available in the Student Government Office 2nd floor Lafortune Deadline Feb. 23 For further details contact Jayne Rizzo (7961-6413) Kristin Quann (1343..6413) 

COLUMBIA 
inCluding: You Don't Bring Me Flowers 
(Duel With Neil Diamond) Love Theme 
From"AStar Is Born'· (Evergreen) 
TheWay We Were Stoney End 

COLUMBIA 
' 
STEREO LPS SERIES 898 
$5.99 
' 
RCA 

Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
The Observer Tuesday, February 13, 1979 -page 6 
Police search for information 
concerning abduction of girl
c 
R 
0 
s 
s 
w 
0 
R D 
s 

ACROSS 
1. Cheat: lllang <&. Oddmenta 
8. Movable framework 
12. "The JIW"­
denin the 
-•oque" 
111. One 

14. Beutaof 
burden 15. Svft7dll~ HI. Aware of: 
alang 

17. 
Jointed eru• 

18. 
MiMCoed 


20. JIG"ely 
22. Dr••edp
U. Ancient "yoJI" 
26. Globe 

28. Colftluu: hyph.wd. 
32. P..­

34. Sifll')e time 
mon-sat -Mardi grastues -Jerry Lucas Lib. Aud. 
Building a Better Memory 
ED KEN 

creatiue hair designs for men and women 
Hours  Tues 8:30-5:30  
Wed-Thurs 8:30-8:30\  Sat 8-4  
•  .  Fri 8:30-6:30  

call today for an "'""'"""'""tment 234-6767 
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. (AP) -whether the abduction was linked An 11-year-old girl on duty as a to the job held by the girl's father school crossing guard was ab­Andrew Vanderveen. ducted yesterday by a man who The ~irl and her family lived ~ged her into a car and drove nearby m a middle-class neigh­
off, police said. borhood of single-family homes. Authorities said Linda 'Police said a man fitting the description of the one seen with
Vanderveen was taken about 8 the girl had also been seen neara.m. from ·a comer near the other schools recendy. They said Mullick Park elementary school. 
no ransom demand Dad beenWitnesses reported the girl received.
was dragged into a black 1976 Jack Hill ofGrand Rapids, who Pontiac Grand Prix by a man in satd he saw the abduction, toldhis mid-20s. 
reporters the girl franticallyPolice Major Robert Ensing waved her arms as she wassaid the girl might have been pulled into a dark-colored car bytransferred to a green station a man wearing a leather or vinylwagon. 
coat and a white stocking cap. 
Alarms were broadcasted for "I saw the car sitting there. Iboth cars and the driver. The FBI thought it was a little strange.
was called into the case. 
The door was open and he wasEnsing said other schools in out of the car," Hill said.
the area had reJ?Orted problems Hill said he parked his own carlast week with a man in a green across the path of the other andstation wagon. 
asked, "What's going on here?"
Her books, satchel and clarinet\ "The guy said 'Nothin',' andwere found on the comer. So was jumped back into his car." 
a steak knife, police said. 
Then, Hill said, the abductorFingerprint tests on the knife backed away and ''damned nearprovided no clue to the identity of ran me over,'' getting awaythe abductor, police said. 
before Hill tould tum around.
There was no immediate word 
Shortly after the abduction, witnesses reponed that a man and a girl matching Linda's 
description were seen at a gro­cery about six blocks away, where they got into a rusty, 
• • . letter 
[continuedfrom page 1) mented, ''While I cannot say with certainty that these efforts 
for additonal space will be suc­Dome editor 
c_essful, I am personnally optimis­nc that, one way or another, Anyone interested in applying additional housing will be under for Editor in Chief of die 1980 construction in the course of the Dome may call 7524 before academic year 1980-81." Friday. 
Michael Molinelli 



Discussion and Film 
on being a Brother, Sister, or Priest in the Church today 
Farley Hall lounge Thursday, 15 February 
9:30pm 
sponsored by Indiana Campus Renewal team 
~~:colored sta~on wa~on with urutanon wood trun, police said. Both vehicles then sped away. Police thought another driver may have helped the abductor. 
Doonesbury 
by Trudeau 


ARmANDO'S BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 
1437 N.lronwood Dr. South Bend 277-0615 Sue, Ruthie, Armando-stylist 
mon-fri 8-5:30 sat 8-2 by appt. only sat-no appt. needed 


Yesterday's answers 




The Observer -Sports Tuesday, February 13, 1979 -page 7 
Florida trek nears 
Dirunond squad a\Vaits spring 


South Bend has a long time to wait for Spring, but the lnsh baseball team is anxiously awaiting their 'spn'ng' in Florida. 
• • • Tankers 
(continued from page 8] 
doesn't really matter," said the sophomore dtver. ''I'm just glad 
I can make a contribution.  The  
first win is always nice."  
Pat  LaPiatney  was  the  only  

other Irish swimmer to win an event. LaPiatney took the 200­yard backstroke in 2:02.4. 
Notre Dame will try once again to climb above the .500 mark when they travel to Bowling Green, Oh. for a double dual meet with host Bowling Green State University and Cleveland State next Tuesday. Both Ohio schools visited South Bend last winter--Notre Dame lost to 
develand, 59-54, but did manage to win over the Falcons by an identical score. Bowling Green is currently 4-4 on the year while the Vikings boast a 7-3 mark. NOTE: The team was scheduled to travel to New Jersey this 
weekend for a meet at Monmouth College. However, the trip was cancelled due to travel complications. 
by Mike Henry Sports Writer 

A strong measure of discipline mixed with equal doses of de­termination and desire are necessary for any athlete to succeed on the college level. Coaches expect their players to develop a routine at practtce that will enable them to maximize their performance on the field. In a word, the function of practice sessions is conditioning---of an 
athlete's mental process as well as his body. 
Notre Dame's baseball team, coming off a promising fall camprugn, has been working out under the north cupola of the ACC for three weeks. They are preparing for the team's annual spnng tnp to Florida, with seven games scheduled in the Sunshine State. Head coach Tom Kelly expects this swing against rugged competition to steel the Irish for a 36-game regular season. 
While the Irish are at an obvious disadvantage due to the vagaries of winter, they have been able to set and accomplish certain goals at practice. Players are worked with on an indivtdual basis or in small groups where they are instructed on all facets of the game. By the time March rolls around, arms, legs and reflexes should be toned to a razor's edge for the funstuff--frolicking on the 
. red day and Bermuda grass under the benevolent Florida sun. ''Practice has been going along very smoothly,'' Kelly· noted as he prepared to send his charges through another spirited session. 
•'The enthusiasm of the team has been infectious, and everyone is anxious to start the season. There is solid competition at more than one position, and this only serves as an added incentive to those players fighting for starting berths." 
"During practice, we break the squad up into pitchers and catchers, infielders, and out fielders. Each group does some running for about twenty minutes. Other than that, the team usually works at something different each day. For example, last week when the batting cage was taken out to make room for the hockey bleachers, we concentrated on rundowns and defenses against the bunt. We· like to vary the routine as much as possible." 
"We also work with indivi­duals to correct any deficiencies or bad habits a player may have picked up. Last fall we video­taped our pitchers and pointed out where we felt they could make a significant change. Righthanded freshman Greg Kot was keeping his from leg stiff as he came through on his delivery .. Now he's putting a lot more behind his pitches. Second baseman Tommy Caruso has to move in closer wtth a man on first base. With our infield defense, we should be capable of turning many more double Pl?vs.'' 
A.nother player to watch is pitcher Mike Desey. Desey suffered from a stramed rotaror cuff (the same injury that has stifled Kansas City Royal Steve Busby) and attempted to return too hastily. He's been throwoing well this winter and shows no sign of discomfort. His addition to an Irish staff led by Mike Bobinski and Mark Ladd will be a welcome plus for the Irish. 
The most solid part of Notre Dame's dub would seem to be the left side of the infield, spearheaded by captain Ricky Pullano and slugging third base­man Mark Simendinger. Both are coming off strong showings in the fall, and will be counted on to set an example for the younger members of the squad. 
•'The spring trip to Florida is intended to be a treat for the players," Kelly said. "Everyone who goes on the triP. will get a chance to play. It wtll be a good learning experience.'' As preparation for the season begtns, Kelly is breeding a quiet self-confidence in relative obscurity--a confidence that will manifest itself in forty days. 
• • • NDwomen 
[continued from page 8) 
another hoop 25 seconds later to regain the lead for her team­mates. A basket by Julie Froese tied the game again at 44-44. Notre Dame then went on a tear as Pat Meyer, Maggie Lally, Cashman, and Conboy all scored in an 8-0 burst that gave the Irish a 52-44 lead with 11:41 left in the game. 
Goshen refused to give up, however, and they remained tough until a bucket by Deb Fedderke brought them within one, 63-62, with 2:20 remaining. But a field goal by Jane Politiski, another one by Tricia McManus, and a free throw by Cashman gave the Irish an insurmountable six-point lead with 41 seconds left. Albrecht's hoop with 30 seconds remaining made the final margin four points. 
Individually for Goshen, Froese was high scorer with 23 points, followed by Albrecht with 
20. Three players had five rebounds each as the Goshen women were outrebounded by Notre Dame, 47-36. 
Maggie Lally led four Irish players in double figures with 13 points. Politiski added 12, and Conboy finished with 11. 
Politiski's 10 rebounds led Notre Dame in that department, while Conboy and McManus each chipped in with 7. Conboy also had rwo blocked shots, and Cashman dished out seven as­
sists. 



~-~-­
Tuesday, February 13, 1979 -page 8 
More than 'respectable' 
Fencers win seventh straight 
Notre Dame's fencing squad boosted its season win tally to 7 versus no losses by soundly defeating three teams this past weekend. 
Injury -ridden grapplers place four in tournament 
by Bill Marquard match in the locker room because Sports Writer his hand was so swollen. "I couldn't believe the number of
In one of their better perfor­people that walked up to me latermances of the season, the Irish on ill the tournament and saidwrestling team overcame the something to me about it. I justdownfalls of an injury-ridden wanted to show· that I wouldn't 
lineup to finish fourth at the quit, no matter what the cost." 
Wheaton Invitational !:1St week­Iflsh co-captain Dave DiSabato end. 
took first place ·for the secondDespite the absence of regu­year in a row, this time at 134.

lars George Gedney, AI The top-seeded junior drew aMattaliano and Jeff Morris, six ftrst round bye then notched an_Irish wresders placed in the top 
four in their we1ght classes. 18.-6 decision and a fall at 7:35 in the championship match to clinch 
Mattaliano, a 177-pound the tide. 
sophomore, is out for the season Junior Mike W.tlda, corning ott with a knee injury. Gedney, an impressive third place finishNotre Dame's 118-pound co­at the National Catholics Tourna­captain, suffered a slight ment last weekend, finished
shoulder separation last week and was unable to wresde as second, losing his only match 7-2 well. in the 150-pound ftnals. Wllda posted 14-4 and 13-2 decisions
Yet the most talked about story earlier in the tourney. 
of the tournament was Irish 142-pounder Dave "W.tld Man" Freshmen Curt Rood and John Welsh. Welsh broke his hand in Iglar took third place at 126 and 
167 respectively. Rood, slimmed the ftrst period of his semi-ftnal down from his accustomed 134 

match, but true to his nickname 
weig~t, ~d 1~-4, 9-6 and ~-7

he finished the match--wrestling dec1s1ons ill his bracket whilefor a full seven minutes with a ~glar had 5-0, 3-0 and 3-1 wins,broken hand. The pain was . 
the second being in overtime. 

evident on his face for the entire Senior Bill Moore at 158 andmatch, yet Qave refused to quit. 
sophomore Dave Rodgers at 190 each finished fourth. Moore took 

' . I just wanted advantage of a 6-5 win and a forfeit while Rodgers had a forfeit and a pin at 2:21 to gain his
to show how much fourth place finish. . "I would say that the team did Notre Dame fairly well, considering the taped­together lineup we had,'' re­marked Irish coach Ray Sepeta. 
meant to me.. 
"We only had nine wrestlers at the tournament, and only ei~ht of "SUre it hurt--it hurt really them had really had expenence,
bad," conceded Welsh, who will so to place six of those eight is 
be sidelined for the remainder of very good." the season. "But I just wanted 
"I just hope our lineup is not so to show everyone how much decimated for Purdue," notedNotre Dame meant to me and 

Sepeta, referring to the team's how much that match meant to last home dual meet, a Wednes­me--there was no way that I could day evening match against the quit., Boilermakers in the ACC pit. 
''The guy I was wrestlihg with "Purdue is comparable to us, and wanted to stop so he wouldn't this should be the beginning of hurt me .anymore,'' admitted our ftnal preparation for the Welsh, who even needed help 
NCAA tournament which starts getting his uniform off after the the weekend after this." 
by Paul Mullaney Assistant Sports Editor 
At the beginning ofthe season, Notre Dame fencing Coach Mike DeCicco was hopeful that the Irish epee squad would at least be respectable .. After all, the top three epeeists had to be replaced from last year's NCAA cham­pions. 
Gold medalist Bjorne Vaggo returned to his homeland of Sweden, while senior .captain Bill Kica and classmate John Strass received their diplomas. That left this year's group with little varsity experience. 
But after last Saturday, DeCicco is least concerned with the epee squad's performance. While the sabre squad posted an 18-9 weekend mark and the foilsmen were 20-7, the epee team won all but three of27 bouts as the Irish defeated Michigan­Dearborn (22-5), Chcago (20-7) and Detroit (20-7). 
The Irish, now 7-0 this year with 92 straight triumphs, will face Penn State, Michigan State afltl Ohio State this Saturday in Columbus, giving the epeeists the chance to prove that they are indeed for real. 
"Penn State and Ohio State will have good epee teams," said DeCicco. "It'II be a super test for 
Tankers drop fourth meet at theRock 
by Michael Ortman Sports Writer 
After Saturday afternoon's dis­mal 75-38 loss to Marshall, the Notre Dame swimmers are begin­ning to wonder if maybe Rockne Memorial Pool is cursed. The Irish, now 4-4 on the season, posted their third loss at the Rock without a victory this season. 
The meet wasn't a total loss for the Irish tankers, several individuals turned in dazzling performances. One key illdividual was sophomore star John Komora, who took both the 50 and the 100-yard freestyle events. In the 50-yard freestyle Komora and fellow Irish sop­homore John Krutsch clocked identical times of 22.7, but the judges' decision gave first place toKomora.. 
Freshman phenomena Donald Casey was heard from as ,,ell. In Notre Dame's frrst home loss this season, Casey broke Bob Reilly's three-year old record in the 200-yard blUtterfly. After erasing his own record in his next home meet, Casey did it again against 
Marshall. His time of 2:01.4 was .4 of a second faster than his pervious mark and a full two seconds quicker than Reilly's timeof2:03.4. Casey hasn't been terribly thrilled with his records, "Records are nice," he stated, "but winning would have been a whole lot !better." 
Diver Betsy Shadley scored her ftrst win as a member of the Irish sguad in the 1-meter (required) dives. Shadley, who last year became th~ first femal~ to make ~e squad ~ the teams 2~-year history tallied 162.65 pomts. ''Whether I'm a male or a female 
[continued on page 7J 
our epee squad. In fact, Penn State will be the first team with really good overall balance that we've faced this year." 
The epeeists intend to keep up the pace they thus far have set for themselves, and are keeping Wayne State, an opponent later this month, in the back of their minds. 
Leading the way for the epee squad to date has been Mike Schermoly. The senior won all of seven bouts this oast weekend in Detroit. 
Andy Bon, a junior from Park Ridge, Ill., led the foil team with an 8-1 mark, while Mike Sullivan led the sabre team with a 7-1 slate. Sullivan, Notre Dame's to_p all-time fencer, suffered only his third loss in 158 career bouts. 
The Irish women increased their record to 6-0 by posting wins over Michigan-Dearborn (11-5) and Detroit (8-1). Dodee Carney, a junior transfer student, won all of six bouts, lifting her season mark to 15-0. 
St. Mary's team defeated Detroit, but lost to Michigan­Dearborn. That leaves SMC with a 3-2 record heading into this weekend. 

Track team snatches third in Big State Invitational 
by Mark Perry Kazimi in the triple jump, leap­Assistant Sports Editor ing 45 feet, 5 inches, and the mile relay team of Aragon, Jacques
Notre Dame's two-mile relay 
Eady, Rick Rodgers, and Bill

team continued their march to-
Ribera . 

. wards the NCAA championships, 
Taking fifth for the Irish were

as they placed second at the 
Tom Ferenc in the shot put and

Knights of Columbus track meet 
Tim Kardok in the hi~h jump.

in Cleveland on Saturday. 
Perry Stowe finished sixth in the 

Although the team was 
pole vault. 

changed slightly, the results 
''I thought we could have

were still impressive, as Tim 
beaten Purdue," Piane said,

Macauley, Jay Miranda, Pete 
Burger, and Church Aragon trailed only Villanova, the top­ranked team from last yuar, ill the ftnal results. 
"It was an incre/:ble perfor­mance for them. · said Irish coachJoe Piane. ''it did a lot for their confidence to run with a team like Villanova, and we had a good chance to beat them.'' 
Notre Dame finished the race in 7:36.1, only a tenth of a second behind the ftrst-place Wildcats. 
On Friday the Irish competed at the B1g State meet in Bloomington, IN, as they place third over-all, behind Indiana and Purdue. 
The best event of the day for 


Notre Dame was the 88-yard run, 
Chuck Aragon 

where the Irish placed three runners in the top four. Church "but Dennis VanderKraats Aragon shattered ~e meet r~­couldn't finish the two-mile be­cord, 1:53.1, taking first ill cause of leg cramps and Tony 
1:51.7. Aragon was followed by Hatherly was disqualifted in the teammate Pete Burger, who fi­mile and probably would have nished in 1:53.2, and Tim placed." Macauley took fourth in 1:53.9. The Irish travel to the Central 
Placing second were Arnie Collegiate Conference meet this Gough in the high hurdles in 7. 5 Friday and Saturday in Normal. seconds, and Steve Welch in the Then on February 20, Notre two-mile in 8:59. Dame hosts Bradley and Indiana 
Thirds came from Ahmao State at the ACC. 
ND women handle Goshen in regular season finale 
by Mark Hannuksela and popped in a two-pointer to Sports Writer make the score 33-25. Two straight baskets by Goshen cut
Playing their final regular the lead in half, and the ·halfseason game in the friendly ended with the Irish h9lding on toconfines of the ACC, the that slim four-point margin. 
women's basketball team found A quick hoop by Barbthe going tough, but managed to Carbaugh, followed by a basket:ban_g on to a 68-64 decision over by Judy Sommer knotted theGoshen CoJJege on Satirrday. 
count at 33-33 at the 18:54 markThe victory raised the Irish of the second half. A bucket by

record to 13-3 as they finished with a perfect 5-0 home mark. freshman Missy Conboy briefly But they ftrst had to survive one gave the Irish the lead again, but of those games where nothing a field goal by Sommer and a comes easy. three~point play by Trish 
Notre Dame led throughout Albrecht gave Goshen its ftrst the first half. Their biggest lead, 38-35. margin of eight points came at Conboy then followed with a the 1:02 mark, when Carol I..ally three-pointer of her own, and took a pass _from MoJJy Cashman 
[continUP.d on page 7J 

! 
I 
l 

