J I 
"I
The Irish Exh'a pages -·ll-14
' 
' ' 

VOL. XIV, NO. 39 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1979 
With student leaders 
Trustees discuss campus issues 

by Rosemary Mills Editor-in-Chief 
The Student Affairs Committee of the University Board of Trustees discussed recent campus issues yesterday with student leaders. Among the topics touched upon were the refinishing of Stepan Center, a raise m the student ~overnment fee, and student mput into faculty tenure. 

· Bill Vita, Student Body Vice President, updated the Com­mittee on the progress made in Stepan Center since last spring. 
At that time, the Committee had agreed to su~port a Student Government Initiative to refinish Stepan Center and make it available as an ath-":tic · facility. Vita noted that· the University had followed through on this motion and stripped th~ floor of the Center to mak,_; it available as a basketLall and volleyball court. Althovgh the volleyball equip­ment has not yet been ordered, one basketball backboard has been assembled, and the other is being assembled. The Committee noted that these courts would only be available for student use. 
The Committee supported a proposal by the Student Government to raise the Student Government fee from $17 to $20 per person. Greg Sebasky, SG treasurer, noted that the need for the increase became evident during the recent SG budget heanngs. According to Sebasky, the number of groups applying for SG funding mcreased by approximately 50 per cent this year, and with the toll of mflation on the SG fee, this increase is necessary. Sebasky also recommended that · the 
Committee review the fee yearly to decide if another mcrease will be necessary. 
Beth Imbriaco, SG Academic Commissioner, revealed the conclusions of SG research into the faculty tenure process. Irnbriaco surveyed numerous department chatrmen in all of the colleges and she concluded that the criteria for tenure were questionable. Although University provost Dr. Timothy 

O'Meara outlined the criteria of excellent teaching distinguished research and compatibility with University goals as the direct criteria for tenure, Imbriaco discove.t:f'd that these factors are weighted unevenly in the different colleges and different depart­
[continued on page 9) 

Gerald Ford to address SMC-ND students 
by Mark Rust News Editor 
Gerald Ford, a former presi­
dent and rotential candidate in 
1980, wil speak to the Notre 
DameI St. Mary's community in 
the ACCnextMonday at 8 p.m.­
the day after students return 
from break. The topic of his 
speech is unspecified at pre­
sent. 

The address wiJl be the final event in a day-long visit, during which Ford will meet with three classes, lunch with student leaders, meet faculty mem­bers and dine with University administrators and area civic leaders. 
The former president will also hold a press conference early Monday morning, following his arrival late Sunday night. 
Ford last visited the campus on St. Patrick's day in 1975 while he was still president. At that time he recetved an hon­orary doctor of laws degree, and drew the applause of the campus for a then recent dec­ision to send two million tons of grain to Third World countries and guarantee that two million more be sent the following year. 
A planned walkout during the 1975 speech appeared to have dwindled to only a handful of protestors in the face of Ford's '"Mr. Clean" reputation. The phrase was used by the press at that time to reflect the findings of 430 FBI agents who combed Ford's background just after his monination for the vice-presid­ency. 
Ford's 25 years in congress were marked by his having never authored any piece of 
[continued on page 10) 


HEW considers suing Chicago 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The government took the trrst step toward what could be the nation's longest . and bitterest school busing battle yesterday, serving notice on Chicago that it will sue to force an end to alleged widespread classroom 
Carter expects n:o interruption 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Carter administra­
tion is confident there· will be no interruption in . U.S.-China relations, despite a judge's ruling that President Carter acted unconstitutionally in ending the mutua] defense treaty with Taiwan, 
State Department sources said yesterday. 
The officials, asking that they not be identified, 
said they are still assessing the impact of the 
decision Wednesday in which U.S. District 
Judge Oliver Gasch declared that the president 
needed the approval of two-thirds of the Senate 
or a majority vote by both houses to end the 
defense treaty. 
The Peking government had made termination 
of the U.S. Taiwan treaty a precondition to 
normalizing relations with the United States. 
State Department officials said the only frrm 
decision the administration has made since the 
announcementof Gasch' s decision has been to 
seek an expedited appeal before Jan. 1, the 
termination date for the treaty. 
"We think it will be overturned," one official 
said of the Gasch decision. 
The department's spokesman, Hod ding Caner, 
was instructed to say nothin~ publicly aboQt the 
case because of the pendtng appeal. "Our 
lawyers advise that a matter under litigation 
should not be discussed," Carter said. 
Speaking privately, officials said the admini­stration would probably do what is necessary to continue its policy of recognizing the govern­ment in Pekmg and dealing with Taiwan on a non-governmental basis. 
If appeals of the Gasch decision fail, they said, the administration probably will ~o to Congress and ask for approval of the deciston to end the treaty. If that failed, the officals said, the administration probably would try to continue its policy toward the People's Republic of China regardless. 
They said much would depend on whether the ~overnment in Peki,ng chose to be understand­mg in the matter. As of midday yesterday, there had been no consultations between the two governments about Gasch's decision, officials said. 
If termination of the U.S.-Taiwan treaty is blocked, the administration could try to reassure the Peking government that there would be no actual change in the relationships the United States agreed to last December. 
They noted that the defense treaty obligates the United States only to consult with--Taiwan if it is threatened and not necessarily to provide 
the island with military support. 
President Carter announcea plans to end the • treaty with Taiwan last December, announcing that the United States would recognize the Pekin~ government. 
segregation. 
HEW Secretary Patricia 
Roberts Harris said she notified 
the Chicago school board that 
unless an acceptable school ~ 
desegregation plan is 
submttted by Oct. 27, the 
matter will be referred to the Ju~tice Department for legal actton. 
Regulations in the Civil Rights Act require a 10-day interim period between the time of a government decision to bring suit and the actual filing of that suit. 
Harris said she decided to 
turn the Chicago case over to 
the Justice Department 
because, "I have concluded 
that compliance cannot be 
secured by voluntary means 
and I cannot in good conscience 
agree to further delay in the 
guise of negotiation.'' 
She told a news conference she still hopes Chicago school officials might submit an acceptable desegre~ation plan, adding that thts ts ''a real possibility. '' 
In a statement released within two hours of Harris' news conference, however, Chicago school superintendent Joseph Hannon vowed that school officials· will fight the government. 
''We will not sit down and discuss with anybody when there are precondttions,'' Hannon said. ''That is not ne~otiating. '' 
'I would hope again that we could take the gun off the table 

and negotiate it without them telling us what to do~· _he said. 
Harris' actions followed a vote by the Chicago Board. of E~ucation Wednesday rejecting 7-.2 the guidelines set by HEW for reducing segregation in the 475,000-student public school 
system.about a  Under the guideli?es, quarter of the cuy's  
students  would  have  to  be  
bussed.  

If the city had accepted the conditions submitted by HEW last week, it automaticaU would hav.e been given an extension unul Nov. 17 to prepare a desegregation plan. Instead, the board voted 6-3 to ask HEW for an additional 170 days to come up with an acceptable plan. 
The plea was immediately rejected by HEW officials. 
Harris said HEW collected a vast amount of evidence that showed ''a clear pattern, over a period of almost 40 years, of mt~ntional.Board of Education actton to remforce and perpetu­ate segregated conditions and to avoid integration." 
The Office of Civil Rights said the school board fostered segregation by the way it drew school district boundaries and by the ways in which new schools were located, as well as in many other ways. . I? its guideline~, HEW had msts.ted that Chtcago school offictals develor a plan under which no schoo would be more than 50 percent white or 63 percent black. 

New-s in brief  Friday, October 19, 1979-page ?  
Medical officials to unearth Lee Harvey Oswald's grave DAllAS (AP) -Dallas County medical officials said yesterday they have asked authorities in neighboring Tarrant County to dig up the body buried in the Lee Harvey Oswald's grave to venfy its identity. Oswald was named as the lone assassin of President John F. Kennedy by the Warren Commission. He was gunned down while in police custody two days after Kennedy's assassination in 1963. "Somebody has ratsed the question as to who is in that ~rave. The easiest way to find out is to ... run some tests,' said Dallas Charles County Medical Examiner Charles S. Petty. A request to dig up Oswald's body was made earlier this year by British author Michael Eddones, but Tarrant County officials turned to him down. Weather Showers and thundershowers likely today. High in the low to mid 70s. A 50 percent chance for s~ow~rs and t~undersh<?W· ers tonight and to(llorrow. Low tomght 1fl the mtd 50s. Htgh tomorrow near 70.  Gilligan plans to deliver~The Observer_ Night Edltor: Jim Rudd inaugural lecture as prof.Asst. Night Editor: Dave Thomas John J. Gilligan, the former Gilligan's lecture will completeCopy Editor: Tom Jackman, governor of Ohio who was a day of ceremonies honoringBruce Oakley, ] ohn Ferroli appointed to the Thomas and Mr. and Mrs. White for endow­News Editor: Mike Lewis, Alberta White Chair in Law at ing both the professorship and Mike Shields the University of Notre Dame the Center. The day will beginEditorial Layout: Ann Galee last June, will deliv.er his at 10:30 a.m. with the Mass of Features Layout: K. Connel­inaugural lecture as Whtte Pro­the Holy Spirit, or Red Mass,ly fessor Sunday. Entitled, "Re­traditionally associated withSports Layout: Mark Perry deem the Time," the public the law and the judicature,Typists: Tina Terlaak, Laura lecture will begin at 2:3~ p..m. celebrated by the Most Rev. Vesquez, Bill Swift, Mark in the Center for Connnumg Mark G. McGrath, C.S.C.,Perry, Mike Lewis Education auditorium. archbishop of Panama, in Scred EMT: Micheline Santello The endowed professorship is Heart Church. A private recep­Proofreader: Dodee Carney part of the Thomas and Alberta tion and luncheon honoring the ND Day Editor: Keith Mel­White Center for Law, Govern­chair holder and donors will asnpo, Naribeth Moran ment and Human Rights within follow. SMC Day Editor: Kathy Notre Dame's Law School. Domanico Ad Design: Chris Slatt, Barb ~-----------------~-~----~--~ Pratt I Sunday Masses ISupplement Layout: Paul Mullaney I at 1Photographer: Chris Savino Guest Appearances: Margar­et Kruse, Sal Granata, ] ohn ~~~Sacred Heart Churchl Smith, Megan Boyle, Mary I I Kay Fabian, Thomas Reuter I 5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. I I 9:15 a.m. Sunday Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. I I 10:30 a.m. Sunday A~chbishop Mark McGrath, C.S.C.~ Tilt Observer (USPS -920) is I Dtocese of Panama Ipublished Monday thraugh Fridly tx· 1 12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey cept during nam and vleltiln periods. The Observer is publislllcl by tiM 1 7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. Austin Fleming I students of Notrl 011111 IIIII Saint Mary's Cll..... Sublcri,U.S fniY bl L--------------~-------------~purdlaud t.r S2D per year IS• ,... ..,.....,., frwn The Observer. P.O. btx Q, Nltrt D••. llldt.u 4Ei&. s-et cllu ':st;r paid, N*t D1m1, ln­dilna . Tile Observer is 1 ftlllllblr If 1M Aulciltld Prill. All •••••ctltn riglrls .... l"'llmd. Oarification  
CatnP-___u___s--~  
Friday, October 19, 1979 all day MEETING university board of trustees CCE 3:30 pm MINI-COURSE fortran class 115COMPUTING CENTER 4 pm RECEPTION works of notre dame architects ISIS I GALLERY  
..1' 4:30 pm COllOQUIUM ''weyl modules & the cohomology of chevalley groups," prof. joyce o'halloran 226 COMPUTING CENTER 5:15 pm MASS & DINNER BULLA SHED 8 pm FILM "spring captures holland" O'LAUGHLIN AUD. $2 8 pm SOCCER nd vs michigan state CARTIER FIELD 8 pm CONCERT kansas ACC 8 pm HOCKEY nd vs u of illinois-chicago circle ACC 9:30pm NAZZ steve notaro and guests Saturday, October 20, 1979 all morning TEST_graduate record exam ENGR. AUD. 9 am ROSARY VIGIL GROTTO 9:30am TALENT SHOW SORIN PORCH 11: 50 am FOOTBAll nd vs southern california .~: 30 pm SOCIAL grad student gathering WILSON COMMONS $1 9:30pm NAZZ open stage  At Wednesday's meeting, the Board of Commissioners debated whether to continue the policy of complementary concert tickets for Student Union Volunteers. The Notre \Dame Student Government does not accept complementary tickets. Also, the Board did not vote to deny funding for the Black Cultural Arts Commission. The Board voted to table the issue UA.til a study could.be made of the group's finances. The Board will address this ,issue after October break. Ideal gift ~ . _._ . r.. '~~ • ~ . ' . ~~ 11,-v( ' ...!~The Hesburgh Papers: Higher Values in Higher Education  
Sunday, October 21, 1979  by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh  
all day CONFERENCE ''toward a just economy for the '80s'' ACC 11 am FIELD HOCKEY nd vs central michigan CARTIER FIELD 2 pm LECTIJRE gov. john gilligan CCE AUD. 2:30pm FILM "kookabura country" CARROll HAll SMC $2 8 pm CONCERT organ recital SACRED HEART CHURCH have a great break!!!  Notre Dame's president has been in office longer than any other (Urrently active president of a major American university. Here he reveals the private thoughts and behind-the-scenes_ events which have marked his. political, religious, and educational involvements. Available now at $12.95 Book Department 2nd floor The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore  

( 


The Observer 




•

Student laundry rmproves 
by janet Rigaux 
The newly implemented self-serve style of laundry bun­dle return is proving to be much more efficient than last year's method, according to Norm Muller, assistant director of Laundry Services. 
''The plane was rearranged so that we now have one 'in' aisle and two 'out' aisles," Muller said. ''Students now pick up their own bundles whtch are sitting on· shelves as they walk 
. , , 
ln. 
Last year, attendants would give each .tudent his bundle and this took up much more time and caused Jam-ups in the laundry office, he said. 
Another change created by the laudry servi~e is that laundry cards are \lsed as payment rather than coupons. ''The coupons proved to be a pain for both the student and us," Mulelr explained. "Students 
' were alwavs worried about losing them·. '' If a student goes over his weekly allotment, he can either pay by cash vr chart-;e it to his accout. "This is much simpler and convement for everyone," Muller noted. Muller is responsible for the laundry services changes. "I came here last year and saw all of the long lines in the laundry. We want to get students in and out as soon as possible.'' Muller also changed the laun­dry service registration process for freshman this year. Student 

Turowicz 
to speak 
Jerzy Turowicz, editor of the leading Catholic daily newspa­per in Cracow, Poland, who accompanied Pope John Paul II on his American tour, will speak at 7:30 p.m. Monday, in Room 101 in the Law Buildmg. Turowicz's lecture, sponsored by the Center for the Study of Human Ri~hts, will focus on the 
Pope's vtsit  to  Poland  and  
Catholic  press  freedom  in  
Poland.  

Roemer chooses assistant director 
by Kathy Casey 
Rex J. Rakow, director of security at Albion College in Albion, Michigan, and a native of Mishawaka, has been named assistant director of Security at Notre Dame by ] ames A. Roemer, Dean of Students. 
Roemer said that Rakow, a 1973 graduate of Indiana University at Bloomington, will work a 4 p.m. to 12 a.m. shift, which would include security for evening events on campus such as hockey and basketball games. Rakow will also be available to meet with student groups in the evening,Roemer said. 
Rakow, whose appointment is effective Dec. 3, is also respon­sible for training the Umver­sity's 75-member security force under the supervision of Glenn 
L. Terry, who was named Security director last month. 
Student Body President Bill Roche said of Rakow's appoint­
......· .· . 
used to have to wait in long lines for over an hour to eet their coupons and laundry bags. According to Muller, the new registration process cut off 45 to 60 minutes waiting time for students. Emil Hofman, dean of Freshman Year of Studies, was "really thrilled" with the new registration pro­cess, he added. 
No more new changes will be implemented this year. Muller wants to see how well this new system works for a year and then evaluate it. 
''Overall the new system is great improvement to last year,'' he said. ''As the year progresses we may find a few flaws that need to be ironed out, and if we do we will add changes to the system next year. . All w~ w~n.t, to do is to keep tmprovmg tt. 
SMC ·Board of Regents affects daily activities of students 
By Charlotte Bradley 
The Saint Mary's Board of Regents, as the sole governing body of the college, affects the daily activities of all SMC students. 
The 27-member board, estab­lished in 1971, is vested with the authority and responsibility for the operation of the college, in accordance with the stated philosophy of the college, the by-laws of the corporation, and the laws of the state of Indiana. 
As stated in the bylaws, if the college has a lay president, the chairman of the board must be a C.S.C. nun, and vice versa. One-third of the members must be sisters of the Holy Cross. The Board makes the policy decisions of the college, such as confirming the budget and hi­ring the college president, al­though its decisions are based o_n-input from the administra­tiOn. 
The members of the Board include alumnae, college administrators, sisters of the Holy Cross, community bus-­iness leaders, and one faculty alfd... ··-orre-student member. 
1 
ment: "Somebody of a high level of responsiblility will be available to deal with stu­dents.'' 
Roche stressed the importance 
-of student involvement in the selection of both Rakow and Terry. Both Roche and SBVP Bill Vita interviewed Rakow and Terry,· along with all the other final candidates for the position of security director. 
''Terry and Rakow working in tandem wi!l add to the quality of the security force at Notre Dame," Vita said. He added ~hat Terry's professional exper­Ience as a member of the South Bend Police Force, and Rakow's youth and "proven ability to talk to students" complement each other very well. 
Rakow has been at Albion since 19/7. Prior to that, he had . b~en a police training specraltst for the Southern Illt­nois Criminal Justice Training Program_ in Carbondale, Illr­nois, and a policeman in Rich­mond, In. 
After graduating from Clay Senior High School in South Bend, Rakow earned a bache­lor's degree in police admini­stration at Indiana University and is now working on a master's degree in occupational education at Southern Illinois University. 
Rakow was one of three final­ists for the position of security director earlier this fall. 
Members are elect~d for three-i y~ar terms ~nd can serve up to : stx consecutive years. 
Sr. Margaret Michael King is chairman this year of the Board 
of Regents.King is also Region­al Superior of the Midwest Region of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
President of Saint Mary's, John M. Duggan, is a member of the governing board of Regents and is an ex-officio member of all other commit­tees. 
Dorothy M. Fiegl, the faculty 
. representative on the Board, is chairman of the Department of Chemistry and Physics at SMC. 
The students are represented by Sheila Marie Wixted, the student body treasurer. 
Maryjeanne Ryan Burke, e­lected this year as president of the SMC Alumnae Association, is a Board member. -­
Nine new members were e­lected this year, includins­Burke. Thomas J. Busch. 1s corporate vice president of the Automotive Control Systems and Friction Materials Groups of the Bendix Corporatim·~ 
FRIDAY (3 pm-7 pm) 

KAmiKAZEES 75c SATURDAY ca am an.nd of gam•> Double Bloody matys J1 Schnapps 50 shot 
,• 


rhe Observer ' Friday' October 19' 1979-page 4 
; ·• 
I 
! 
( 
f 
l 
Speaking of sport~ FREE PIZZA. 


This Sunday, instead of your "usual"' place try our famous CHAMPAGNE BRUNCH 
Who Are We? 
If You Don't Know...You Should Find Out/ 
Contact your placement center for information and a personal appointment. 
We will be interviewing Seniors who will receive their BS degrees this fall, for career positions in these areas: 
Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering Business Management 
November 5, 1979
G-
on equal opportunity employer 

itkin•co. 

Tb Cehlliaf 

l' 
IFor Archbishop Biskup ­
: ~ -Cathedrals to hold services 
INDIANAPOUS (AP) • Ser­vices will ~ at 11 a.m. Monday in St. Peter and St. Paul Cathedral here for the Most Rev. George J. Biskup, 68, archbishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Indianapolis for 12 years. ­He died Wednesday night in 
' St. Vinct..Jt Hospital. . Biskup resigneCI as head of the Indianapolis Archdiocese in March because of a series of health rroblems durin~ the past severa years, includmg a re­currence of cancer. The Rev. Msgr. Francis Tuohy, who was named tempor­ary administrator pending the pope's selection of a successor, satd, "Archbishop Biskup was a kind and gentle person who dealt with others in a sensitive manner. understanding of all who came to him with lems, always generously gtving them much of his time. ''Perhaps his most outstand­ing quality and one that continue to have lasting effects on the church here was ability to share responsibility with persons whom he ap­pointed to various ministries. 
Freshman 
pick officers 
at SMC 
Saint Mary's Freshmen chose their officers Wednesday night. Elected to the position of Chairman is Erin Flood. pointed members are chairman Gaynor Treasurer Melanie and Secretary Roxanne Roches­ter. 
The two Social sioners are Monica and Carolyn Birch. pointed were 
'CounHi~illlter 
gas, Publicity 
Patry Zukaitas, and Much progress has resulted 
from his ability to call forth 
talents of others." 
Biskup, a native of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, arrived in Indian­aj)Olis to officially assume the duties of coadjutor archbishop and pastor of Holy Cross parish in October 1967. He was appointed archbishop of the 39-county Indianapolis Arch­diocese and its 204,000 mem­bers Jan. 14, 1970, succeeding the Most Rev. Paul C. Schulte, now 89, who retired. 
Biskup was bishop of the Des Moines Archdiocese in Iowa, two years before coming to Indianapolis. He received a bachelor of arts degree from Loras College in Dubuque, 

Linebacke~ Bobby Le~p~[Jgiv~s his views on tomorrow's clash with fourth-ranked U.S. C. [photo by Chriss Saft,ino]. 
Iowa, in 1933, and then attend­ed Gregorian University in Rome where he was ordained March 19, 1937 
He was first appointed pastor of St. Raphael Cathedral in Dubuque. From 1940 to 1948 he taught at Loras College and Loras Academy while serving parishes at Dubuque, Walford 
and Key West, Iowa. He returned to Rome  . and  
served  in  the  office of  the  
Sacred  Congregation  for  the  

Oriental Church from 1948 to 1951. 
Biskup's body will lie in state at St. Peter and St. Paul Cathedral on Sundar.. and a vigil prayer service wtll be held Sunday night. 
Commissioner Lucy Hanahan. · ,.,....,.....,..,...T-~~_,...,....,.."r"",...,....,.--.-....,....,.-..,....,....,,....,.--r..,..-y-....--..... 

The Observer 
·'· 
-· I

SeniOrs complain of losing time 
by Stephan Sharp so that the last senior trippers to 8:59 p.m. "The improved· 
EAGLES 

Some seniors art compaining that they will miss UJ? to a half day of vacation time m Acapul­co next week due to poor fltght scheduling. Fr. Mario Pedi, senior class moderator, said, however, that part of the prob­lem has been solved. 
Several seniors became upset at Tuesday's "Travel Night" when they discovered that their American Airlines flight will be the last one to arrive m Acapul­co and the second one to leave. Normally, flights are .staggered 
to arrive are the last ones to leave. 
"It doesn't seem fair to pay the same price for 12 hours less time in Acapulco," said Clare Stack, a semor from Lyons who was scheduled on the last flight. 
The flight schedule handed out to the seniors on Tuesday lists the first group as arriving in Acapulco at 12:00 noon and the last group at 11:59 p.m. (acapulco time). 
Pedi said that the last flight arrival time has been moved up 
O>sts soar, profits fall with nation's airlines 


NEW YORK (AP)-The skies 
aren't as friendly for the 
nation's airlines these days. 
Costs are soaring, profits are 
almost gone and employees are 
being laid off. 
The airlines are trying to cope 
with the problem by raising 
fares and cutting back on 
discounts, hoping that won't 
prompt air travelers to stay 
home. 
The signs of trouble are every 
where. The Air Transport 
Association reported yester­
day that air travel in September 
was only 7. 5 percent above 
levels of a year ago, far below 
the 13.5 percent boost in Aug­
ust. 
United Airlines announced that 'layoffs of 100 pilots and 95 pilot trainees and said more layoffs 
Students to change before game 
As a pre-game psyche move for the U.S.C. game, the students are called on to take part in a massive change from blue to green as the Notre Dame football team runs onto the . field just prior to the kick-off. The change is to be a simple substitution of an article of clothing, such as putting on a green jacket over a blue sweatshtrt. After The Change, cheer the Green Machine on to victory over the Trojans of U.S.C. 
are to come. 1WA also has 
announced major layoffs and 
many other airlines are not 
filling vacancies. 
American Airlines reponed a 
97 percent decline in third­
quarter profits. That was partly 
because American's DC-10 jet­
liners, which account for more 
than 20 percent of its ·capacity, 
were grounded for most ofJuly 
after a DC-10 crash inChiCago 
that killed 273 persons. 
Trans World Corp.· said its 
profits fell only 52 percent, but 
added that was because its 
nonairlinesubsidiaries did well. 
Braniff Arilines on Thursday 
reported a loss of $9.8 million 
for the quarter, compared to a 
profit of$15 million a year ago. 
The los~ came .despite a 3 5 
percent mcrease tn revenues to 
$370.7 million. 
At the heart of the airlines' 
problems is oil price increases-­
the same factor that brought 
higher profits earlier this year. 
Initially, the oil squeeze brought increased business, as persons fearful of finding gaso­lines went by air. But the airlines were unable to raise fares as fast as their fuel costs increased. 
The airlines have countered with sharp fare increases, but those were delayed by the Civil Aeronautics Boards. The "de­regulation" of the industry made it easier to lower fares than to raisethem. 
Many of the fare increases have taken effect and others are pending. "By the end of the year, fares will be up at least 27 percent from last year, ' ' said Thomas G. Plaskett, a senior vice-president of American Air­lines. 
Graduate Student Union 
....... ...... ... ...... ,
.....~........ 
POST -USC SOCIAL 
Suds & Dogs WILSON COMMONS 3:30 to 7:00 

MEETING Oct. 30 at 
7:30pm in fA}ortune Ballroom 
Come see what Young life has for you -the college studentI Cari't tnake it? Simply call John Schroeder 289-8825 
time means that being on the last flight won't shoot Sunday night, and that's what mot people were complaining a­bout,'' Pedi said. 
· Normally, the trip comittee charters flights and therefore has more control over departure and return times. Pedi explain­ed that this year no planes could be chartered because the : airlines are losing money on , charters. The last flight into Acapulco, filled with 139 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's sen­iors, was added by Americn Airlines to its regular schedule ofMexican flights, but only at a group rate. The airline set the times of departure and ~turn. 
Pedi also noted that all seniors must fly with the same airline both to and from Acapulco in order to gualify for a group rate. On tnternational routes, the airlines don't fly as regular­ly as on U.S. routes, and long delays between flights are com­mon. 
Andy Barfuss, senior trip coor­dinator, said that most seniors believe the scheduling could have been done better, but he stated that few people have called him to complain. "I know how those people feel,'' Barfuss said, "I ended up on the last flight too.'' 
Sorinplans talent show 
The annual Sorin Hall Talent Show will be held on Sorin' s front porch tomorrow at 9:30 am. All students are invited to attend. 
Ap~ Mow 16 laOO p11 
SundG!J ·Oct"21 ...,_ 
-..,..&ftt.lt 
Umlt 6 tlctMI fM JSIIIOft 

112.5011 Fiontatag• 110.00/7.50 Dlecwatag4t 
Tlck•ta go on aal• 9.00 Qlft Oct 29 SW.nt Unloft Tlckf' Offtc• Alto avalia"bl•.atesan Ale Tlck•t Outl•ta 

"-!:~ ....~~i­
129 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET 
f.ri & sat 
THE 
.. 




The Observer Friday, October 19,1979-page 6· 
Assault on sntallpox erases 
\ affliction
f 
j 
' 
\ 
~ 
NAIROBI, Kenya (AP)-It probably killed Pharaoh Ram­ses of Egypt 3,000 years ~o. Mricans and Indians worship­ped i!f.. In 1977, a Sonali cook named Ali Maow Maalin be­came f'he last person known to catch it outside a laboratory. 
Over the centuries, smallpox killed, scarred, blinded or per­manently scarred hundreds of millions. 
When an epidemic' began, people could do little more than wait for the fever, the vomiting and the pustiles to subside. English physician Ed­ward ] enner produced a ·pre­ventative vaccine 180 years ago, but there was never a cure. Now smallpox is about to be erased from recognized lists of human afflictions. On Oct. 26, officials of the Geneva-based World Health Organization, which led the final assault on 
the virus, will travel to Nairobi to declare that smallpox has been eradicated. 
The only countries not pre­sently cenified smallpox-free are Kenya, Somalia, Ethiopia and Djibouti. Nomadic popula­tion movements there hmdered detection and isolation of virus outbreaks. 
But WHO teams have com­pleted intensive surveys in the Horn of Africa region and the four countries will be cleared next week. 
According to public health officials, the victory over small­pox marks the first time scien­ce has eliminated a disease. The campaign cost billions of dollars, with WHO contributing $100 million. 
''After two years without a single case, there is no chance smallpox will return,'' Dr. Ziaul Islam, WHO's disease-control 
., ' 
The ND cheerleaders appeared at last night's pep rally at Son·n, will appear at tonight's pep rally at Stephan Center and ofcourse the game. [Photo by Chns Salvino] 
officer in eastern Mrica, said in an interview. 
"It's a man-to-man infection, with no stage in animals, insects or impure water. There are no human carriers who spread the disease without showing symptoms, as there are for typhoid. When sym­ptoms come, they appear on exposed pans of the body, like the face, and cannot be htdden. And there is an effective vac­Cine. 
''This makes it comparatively easy to deal with," he said. "You won't find another major disease about which all these things are true.'' 
If the doctors are right, and they say the probabihties are overwhelmingly against error, smallpox from now on will exist only m a few laboratories for research purposes. 
Yet even there, accidents can occur. 
Janet Parker, 40, a medical photographer, last year became Britain's first smallpox fatality in five years after she apparent­ly came in contact with viruses that escaped through a labora­tory ventilation duct to the floor above. 
In the subsequent outcry, professor Henry Bedson, 49, a world smallpox authority, cut his throat, leaving a note saying he had ignored basic safety p~ocedures in handling the vtruses. 
Britain later tightened regula­tions at 11 laboratories where dangerous viruses are held. WH0 says a global reserve of 200 million doses of smallpox vaccine is being kept as a safeguard. 
The origin of smallpox is unknown. Ramses died at age 40, and his mummy bears what could be smallpox scars. Christ­ian leaders recorded smallpox in southern Europe around the fifth century. 
Some West Africans revered smallpox as Sopona, a ~od whose name they rarely dared mention. Ancient Hindus wor­shipped Sitala, goddess of smallpox, and practised a form of quarantine by refusing to enter a house for fear of anger­ing Sitala. 

·Chinese inoculated them­selves by sniffing powder from the crusts of smaHpox pustules, hoping to acquire a weak case of the virus that would immu­nize them. Persians swallowed the crusts. 
Jenner's vaccine was made from the harmless cowpox vi­rus, but Britons initially reject­ed it--they thought it would make them moo. 
Smallpox arrived in America from England in the 1600s. In 1792, almost half of Boston's 18,000 residents caught it. Thomas Jefferson was the first ~.S. president vaccinated ag­amst lt. 
Smallpox had disappeared from industrial countnes when in 1967 WHO launched its eradication campaign, mostly in Africa. 
Some 131,000 cases were re­ported that year. Islam estimat­ed that more than 10 million unreported cases occurred, of either the Asian strain that killed 30 rercent of the victims or an Afncan strain that had a death rate under five percent. 
Medical teams first tried mass inoculations but later switched to isolating the virus in remote areas. 
"That was more effective," Islam said. ''In fact, when Zaire was certified free of smallpox, only one-third of the country had been vaccinated. ' ' 
West Africa reported its last smallpox case in 1970. A year later, central Africa had its last recorded case. The last case in Kenya--non-fatal--was in 1977 when 9-month-old Fatuma Adan was infected by a visiting Somali relative. 
•. 

' 
' 
. 

No one can hold a candle to the Fighting .Irish! 
10.00 
Fire up your team! Keep a candle burning in your room for the Fighting Irish. Football candle, 8" high; basketball candle, 6%" high. Stationery, Ayres Scottsdale Mall and University Park . 
..
r------------------------,
I Phone Orders 291-7700, In Indiana Call Toll-Free 1-800-622·4692 
I L.S. Ayres & Company, 1303 Scottsdale Mall. 
I South Bend. IN 46612 I Please send these NO candles.: I I I I I 

Total ____ $1.50 Handling Charge.____ (if applicable) 4% Indiana Sales Ta'"----­TOTAL.____ 
Name Your Charge Account No. Address Phone._____ 
City State_ZiP::---:--­0 30-Day Charge 0 Option Charge 0 Check 0 Please send me an Ayres charge application. 1 Add $1.50 handling charge if total purchase is $15.00 I or less and when sent beyond Ayres free delivery area. I 
200-10/18/79-NOO 
~-----------~------------J 

.• 



The Observer 

Over break 
Few campus functions to occur 
by Mary Fran Callahan 
Students remaining on campus over October break have a limited number of campus functions available to them. 
Student Union is sponsoring no activities over break, so students will have to turn to South Bend for entertainment. Ve~etable Buddies will be of­fermg a variety of groups over break. Monday evening, The Iron Butterfly is appear~g. Tuesday, Nijht Vision will per­form, and ) unior Welker and the All-Stars will complete the week. 
Bridget McGuire's will stick to its regular hours which are 4:00 
p.m. to closing, and Corby's will also operate on its usual schedule which is 2:00 to 3:00 a.m. 
All the local shopping malls will be open, and buses will be running on the usual time­tabels. Several malls have events planned focusing on the upcoming Halloween. 
Although buses will be going into town as usual, all shuttle service to and from SMC is cancelled until classes resume. 
In the way of theater, the Forum will be offering ''the Life of Brian," "Rocky II" and ''Animal House.'' The Scots­dale Theater will continue to show "Apocalypse Now." 
Should students want to work out over break, the Rockne Memorial will be available from 8:00a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to noon on Saturday and 10:00 
a.m. to 6:00p.m. Sunday. The 
SMC hours 
to change 
by Kathy Cawley 
Due to the upcoming October 
break, there are several 
changes in the hours and 
availability of facilities at Saint 
Mary's. All students must be 
out of their dorm rooms by noon 
on. Sunday. Those that are not 
gomg away must move to 
LeMans Hall on the 23rd. The 
dorms will reopen on Friday the 
27th at 8:00am. 
The swimming pool will be closed throughout the entire week for repair. Angela Athletic Center will be opened on Monday through Friday from 8:00 am to noon and 1 to 
5:00 pro. 
The library will be open from 8:30-4:30 on Monday through Friday. The bookstore will be open on Saturday the 20th and the 27th from 9:00 to noon and all week from 8:30-4:30. The health service will close at 7:00 pro on Sunday the 23rd and reol?en the 28th at 3:00. All busmess offices will be open throughout the week during the usual hours. 
The dining hall will serve its last meal today and will reopen on the 28th for dinner. Students living here through the break must pay as they go at the Snack Bar for the week. 
There will be a 5:00pm Mass on Saturday night in LeMans chapel, and a 10:00 am Mass on Sunday mornings. The 12:20 pm and 4:45 fm Masses during the week wil be cancelled but there is a 7:00am Mass daily at the Church of Loretto. 
pool will be closed Saturday but open from noon to 6:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and 7 to 10:00 p.m. next weekend. Family swims are from 2 to 4:00 
p.m. Friday and Sunday. 
In addition to the Rock, the ACC will be available for use from 8 to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 
11:00 a.m. Saturday, and 1 to 5:00p.m. Sunday. Next Satur­day, students can utilize the facility from 8:00 a.m. to noon. 
The ice rink's hours vary slightly. Free daily r.ublic skating sessions will still be he!d Mondays, Wednesday and Fnday from 12 p.m. -1 p.m. Regular public skating is from 7 till 9 p.m. Saturday the 20th, 1:30-3:30 p.m. and 7:30-9p.m. Sunday. The weekend of the South Carolina ~arne, the rink will be closed Fnday and Satur­day, then resume its normal hours Sunday. 
Saint Mary's students plann­ing to remain on campus are reminded that they cannot check out of LeMans Hall until Friday the 26th. 
Food will be harder to obtain 


Alberts 
Ar.~~-• ~~::r;
-••••••..• ...••·r-... ­
Athlete's Foot 
L.S. AYRES Baker Shoes Berman Buckskin BemaniWigs Book World Bottom Han 
since the last meal served in the dining halls will be lunch before the USC game. The dining halls will open aBain on Satur­day Oct. 27 for dmner after the South Cfu'olina game. The halls will resume their normal hours with Sunday dinner. Yet, continental breakfast and Sun­day brunch are planned. 
Some on-campus options for meals are the pay cafeteria and the Huddle. The cafeteria will maintain its regular hours which are from 7:00 a.m. to 
7:20 p.m. Monday through Saturday and 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 
p.m. 
Sundays. The Huddle has altered its hours over break-­opening from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 

p.m. 
Monday through Friday and 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Saturday. Sunday the 28th, the Huddle will resume its regular hours--opening at noon f>.nd closing at midnight. 


The library will be available from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday· through Saturday and 
1:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Sunday. 
When classes are back m session, normal hours will re-,-:: sume. 
UniVeRSITY PaRK 
CLEVELAND AT GRAPE ROAD. 
It's Allin Store For You..• 
Cressy & E"J;rn:: ::1a1ton Karmalkom Shoppe Redwood & Ron ~....--...··-~:___ ... _ • "'lftw: lrlnn•v ~!:~-Realll----~·IIP'Ilfvllllh 
••-~:..n • '-III1R5 Gl ~":... : ...............w:=: .....~ ~ --·-----­
-
Father & Son Shoes Lana Bryant Richman Brotllen Flnl National Bank LemarSIIop J. Riggings Flonhelm Shon The Limited J.B. Robinson Jewelers Fox's Jewelers Lion's Dan Scotto Pizza Foxmoor Casuals Loading-Dock SEARS Frontier Fruit & Nut Louie's Tux Shop Sllnnnan's Fun-N-Gamas Lowrey Organ Size 5-7-1 Shop 

Bresler's 33 Flavors Gantos Marianne Shop S~Fro Fabrics Brown's Sporting Goods The Gap Merle Norman Spencer GiftS Burger Chef General Nutrition Milady Shop Stride Rite Bootery Camelot Music Gilbert's Morrow's Nut House Susie's Cauals Card Cage Gordon Jawalen Motharcare Tammey Jewels Casual Comer Great Hot Dog Experience Muslcland Things RemtHIIbered Cavalier Camera Hanover Shoes National Uniform Shop Thom MeAn Sltoas Charlie Chan Restaurant Hickory Farms Naturallzar Shoes The nnder Box Chess King Homemaker Shop Newman's VIllage Scene Chick-Fil-A Hot lam's -Nobll Shoes Wags Restaurant Cinema I, II, Ill Houl8 of VIsion Orange Julius Walden Boob 
·~

Circus World Toys *J.L. HUDSON Osco Drugs Wlclrs-N-SUclrs Claire's Boutique *Hush Puppies Parldane Hosiery World Bazaar Clifford's Diamond Center Jean Nicole *J.C. PENNEY Your Father's Mustache 
*Clock Collection Jeans West Piercing Pagoda Zale's Jewelers Cookie Factory Jo-Ann Fabrics Radio Shack County Seat Just Jeans Red Cross Shoes *Opening soon 
OVER 90 SHOPS AND SERVICES FOR ALL YOUR SHOPPING NEEDS ••••••• ' JUST A FIVE MINUTE DRIVE AWAY! 


UniVeRSITY PaRK 
CLEVELAND AT GRAPE ROAD. 
Mall Hours: Mon thru Sat 10 am -9 pm, Sunday 12 -5:30 pm 
A joint venture development of The Edward J. DeBartolo Corporation, managing partner, and Cressy Associates 


Thought Y~-tl Se~ ~~~ Now ;,m4w:1116 
"L1CK-U.S.C.'' suckers 

All proCeedS go to charities · and organizations in South Bend 
-. 

On sale now in dining halls for only 50' 
j 

You can help the di~dv~taged and•.... 
Make Suckers 
-.Out of U.S.C.! 


'' 
______________....,. __.__ ···-·-···--· _ ... _-_ ... ­
~,.,~--. 
---'""~·---·--... 

---.._ ­
' 
I 
10 
-
-
( 

s Friday, October 19, -1979-page 8 
Women in the priesthood
JP II: Superstar or Super Czar? 
The world, as any educated and self-respecting individual knows, is an incredibly compli­cated place to live. Although I decry our increasing depen­dence on the authority of aca­demic/ governmental/ secular ''knowledge specialists'' for understanding how our society works, I am equally disturbed
1 
by well-intentioned appraisers
I ' 
of the human condition who know only too little about the topics concerning many of us. 
\ 
Pat Byrnes article, "On women in the priesthood'' , is a case in point. Although I wholeheartedly applaud his honest effort to delineate some of the difficulties facing Amer­ican Catholics with regard to 
1 the place of women in the 
\ Church, some of his more erratic and unsubstantiated ~ener~iz~tions demand further
( 
mvesngatton. 
~ 
#1) He states: "The pope reserves the .Priesthood for men, a reservation defended by tradition and theological ·in­sight." Tradition, yes. Theo­\ logical insight? According to
\ 
whom? Hans Kun_g, theologian­
\ 
priest at the _University of
\ 
Tubingen in Germany, is re­
\. 
garded by many in the Church as ·a man of bounteous theo­logical insight. In his book, Why Pnests?, Fr. Kung ad­vances a persuasive, albeit non-traditional, view on the question of women priests. 

''The Church's ministry of leadership does not have to be 
• l . /. I ·, ' 1-J.
~A~~::.!!..:~.~v f!Ui,G: :. ":!i::ea ;;u, ,,:: a men's-as~o~idtt~~-p;j1 participation of women in the 
Church's ltfe, on the basis of equal rights, is something that belongs to tl-suitably renewed Church today. This means not only including women as core­sponstble in different advz'sory and decision-making bodies, but also the admisst'on of women to all the Church's special ministn'es and to ordi­natt'on. Sociotultural reasons have been advanced against the ordinatt'on of women for a temtorial and perhaps even more for a non-tem'torial min­istry of leadership, but. no decz'sive theological reasons have been presented. '' 
Thank you, Hans. 
#2) He boldly asserts: "Thf pope speaks wtth words of faith -those who oppose him on this issue use words of logic.'' Come now, Pat. Words are words. The pope expresses himself as logically as he can, and believing Catholics who 
. I disagree do so for reasons of) faith, as well as logic. Your simplistic, ~nd dichotomous, exegesis is demeaning to serious Catholics, whose faith in one of Jesus' most radical exhortations (''You shall know the truth, and-the truth shall set you free '') impels them to act m congruence with that faith. Authentically motivated women seeking full ministerial duties, I 
. Christopher_Stewarl 
fatth appears to be 2 percent spirit, 9~ percent syr:tcretism,
that cunous concoctton of 
maudlin traditionalism, un­
yielding or:thodoxy' and stodgy 
status-qumsm. Personal status 
is not the goal of these women. 
Loving service to God and 
humankind is. Besides, who's 
to say that only men can be 
'called' to the priesthood? Jesus never expressly excluded 
women. Have we forgotten the 
significance of his relationships 
to women, most notably Mary· 
Magdalen and Manha? Pray 
tell, I hope not. 
#3) He mentions that the gifts of men and women, given by God, ... "may be characteristic­ally different, and as such, may be subject to different value assessments in this world." But wait, ladies, equality is just a blink of an eye away. "However, we are all equal in the eyes of God.'' (muted sound of applause) The only problem with this assessment is that this world is subject to an amazing variety of evil apt­itudes, such as racism, ex­ploitation, sexism, greed, lust, . power-craving and the like. Although we may be equal in the eyes of God, we are surely 
not yet equal in the eyes of 
men, or women for that matter. No less an authority than Jesus once made the trenchant remark that ''what yo~ bind on earth shall be bound m heaven." With this in mind, 
~cn:-:~e;: :.~~~t J~u~--!~~~~~~ 
~ 0! ~ :.~ j~:!~i.Ly ~·~ ~~!!~iuwc:un...... 
of male-dominated, chauvinist­
ically oligarchical universe, I 
pose this question: if the 
Church's "value assessments" 
of women relegate them to an 
inferior status during their lives 
on earth, will they likewise be 
as enthusiastic '\n partaking of 
the fruits and·lrewards of an 
eternal heaven, one · that 1s 
lugubriously burdened by those 
same double-standards that 
bound· them on earth? 
#4) He mentions: "Now comes the painful pan. What if the pope is correct (about men priests, onlr)?'' Wrong again. The painfu part would be for the Vatican and other intrarl!' sigent adherents to the regi­mented rheology of the inad­missability of women to the 
riesthood to admit, once and
Eor all, that women are theo­
logically justified in seeking 
entrance to the priesthood.
Now that would be painful. It 
::S ~~~ ~ 
t'<S IfJ'J QJ 
BUTtrs AN Olff­
........ 
!fA66.1MY tm.E's 
, ~ ~ aceiMSSIM71U?. ~ 
: OV~ A !;0/TH 
would cause us to · rethink redefme, reevalu~te, and re: 
consider all our pnestly notions and attitudes that have been for~ed and m?lded by cen­tunes of dogmatic allegiance to 
papal autocracy. 
#5) The angelically pious slo~aneering at the end of your antcle (Christian du3:_, petition­ing the will of God, t e pope as spokesman of the Church, waiting faithfully, patiently, obediently--you forgot eter­nally, Pat) is just what we don't need. We do need progressive action, but I assure you that it 

A new-found spirit 
won't be forthcoming from the: bring up in the midst of either a 
Papacy of John Paul II.  ·  Saint Mary's  or  Notre  Dame  
The present papacy is conser-.  woman netter.  
varive,  as most papacies are.  Coach to player: Go over and  
Liberal popes frequent the  tell St: Mary's that ,they play in  
historical  scene  with  startling  ten mmutes.  
res.ularity,  about  once  every  Player: What? Over there? No  
Mdlenium.  Therefore, it is the  way!!  Let them default!!  .  
zenith of naivete  to  wait  and  : Coach to player: Go over and  
pray for the liberation ofwomen  _ask Notre Dame if they need  
from a Pope whose reactionary  help sweeping the court.  
attitude  toward  present  male  Player: What?  Over there?  
members  of the cloth  (those  No,way!! These are their courts  
wanting  to  leave  the  priest­ -They're doing .a fine job.  
hood) can be best summed up  Somehow, d~rmg  the  course  
by paraphrasing a Sixties  '  of a year, attitudes ~hanged.  
slogan.:  hell no, you can't go.  Suddenly•.  the  tenms. players  
The truth of this whole matter  beg~n saymg hello, sm•!mg and  
is that the American Catholic  makmg  small  talk  with  one  

Up until this season, and perh(s contrary to popular belie , the only thing that the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame
tennis teams had in common 
was th~t they co-hqsred two tennis tournaments during the fall season. There seemed to be a stronger rivalry existing than ~ust tennis. A Saint Mary's tennis player never relished the idea of talking to a Notre Dame player, while a Notre Dame ~layer never even cared to look r a Saint Mary's player. 1 ennis was a sore subject to 

Maureen 0 'Brien 
another. 

SMC player: That was a great match · I guess we'll be meeting in the finals. 
ND player: I know, this is the third time we'ye played against each other. Would you like some M & Ms? ·As a result, a healthy friend­ship between the two teams has formed. This is important not only for ·sportsmanship sake, l:mt because of the whole con­cept behind the Notre Dame­Samt Mary's community. The girls may be rivals on the court, but off the court is a different story. The highlight of this new-found spirit suifaced dur­ing the state tournament when both teams supported, watched and cheered each other on. A stro,ng unity between the two 
teams was so beautifully dis­played that even the players themselves noticed the change of heart. 
Spectator: It is so refreshing to see the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame teams sitting with each other. 
Spectator: Yes, one thing/uz·
zles me though. I've hear  the  
chant "Go Irish"  before,  but  
what is ''Go Belles?''  

==========================
Church is not taken seriously by 
Rome. Our phlegmatic, crusty and occasionally cosmic episco­pate is a case in point. The p<_>pe talked at them _durin~ the 
P. 0. Box 
Btshops Conference m Chicago 


for 11/2 of the 2 hours allotted 
to t!!,is ~ug~s.:h,~yiT"~~~:~!'~, ROTC demands
Stan. ::>UCJI au IDSU!L&uf;S ;,Leu\.. _.... -­
affairs speaks for irselt. 
The pope came to America to seriOUS thoughtbe heard; he didn't come to, listen to our bishops and rheolo-. Dear Editor: gians tell him about the varie-The letter which appeared gated problems confronting our in the Oct. 16 edition of The Church. He came to impose his Obs_eroer concerning my com­own doctrinaire, univocal Polish ment to Fr. Hesburgh about vision of Catholicism upon a Christian values in ROTC ne­pluralistic, minority church. It cessitates that I clarify my didn't work. point. In spite of Mr. 
Had he stayed longer, he Trimbach's comments, I feel might have learned something . that there are some essential from us. Instead, he rambled questions to be reckoned with. jauntily through the country-Obviously, it is absurd to ask side on a whirlwind tour, pick-whether we prefer regimented ing up personality points from military officers or liberally the American Media Machine. edUJ.~ted officers ruoninf our time magazine,' sharin~ 
the. military; the mission o the 
euphoric excess that 'cted' military is the same. The the nation for a week, called -question that I maintain needs him "John Paul, Superstar." our immediate attention is I'm waiting for an up and h
whet er we, as a.. Christian 
coming exclusive interview with institution, should proclaim our People magazine. Maybe he'll belief in Christian values with tell them what he won't tell the more than words? Shouldn't faithful. 

we JOlfi ranks With Other
,.h . ­

va.1'isitan lllStltutloriS SUCh as Georgetown, Catholic U., etc. and prove the excellence we seem to claim so readily by refusing to allow the military on our campus? 
I'm sure that everyone here in ROTC does have Christian values. If we just think a moment though, one can see the startling realization that these men and women here at Notr~ Dame are being trained to kill. No matter how one looks at the situation, this bottom line remains. 
I agree that the answer that appeared in The Observer was inadequate, bur Mr. Trim bach did not advance Fr. Hesburgh's answer any further. I am not advocating any solution to the problem. I do think that the s_erious thought that this situa­tion demands has been ignored since the end of the VIetnam 
era. ] erry Murphy 

8 
;' NIX<Itt: ... I=F_; -s.~? ? .~~,J 
~~ 
~ 1 
~[[[ 
~ .. """', 



{/"T") " axr~ \)<;:) 
,..~~flc'P ~ 
lf'P\J" 
I XNOfAJ, /1&'5AA ~ ~~513 HA/?R/5, YOU!?. 1/Nct£'5 /.1ST OF Ml< liiiDDIS. u.s. 'MU15SII-HE~~ SIR. AIJM!R£R5 IN 7HIS 7lJMN IS AANP'7/1' ' ~! IXJ5SN'T 8IfT THE5E 5/KKT{)Vf;. I?I6HT l'lXAJ, IU& ME 
SOI?.R.Y. 1Hf!:.~Pf!/T ltj.~f?/&5 TRYING 70 AVOIO ACTKN5 MilCH 


~ £ 
~~~:~~ ~~;:~~~ ~~~.:~,.~~.. , ~~~f ~~~~~2~:
find, are more closely aligned 
with Scripture than those whose 
administration of either msmution.
' . Editorial Board and Department Managers
The n~ws. is reported as. accurately and 
as obJectively as posstble. Editorials Editor-in-chief. ........Rosemary Mills Sports Editor .. _. ..............._Mark Perry 
represe~t t~e opimon of a majority of Managing Editor..........Diane Wilson Feat11res !3JI'tor.....Karhleen Connelly 
-The Observer_ 
&x Q Notre Dat~~e, IN 46.5.56 the Edttonal Board. Commentaries Editorial Editor..............Ann Gales Photo Edttor ..............Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Sent'or Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak 
The Obsen~er is an independent their authors. Column space is avail-. Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ........Steve Odland ocwspa~r published by the students able to all members of !he community, News Editor....................Mark Rust . Prod11c11o11 Mat~~:~ger.......Tim Sullivan ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac an~ . the free expression of varying News Editor ................ .Mike Shields ··· Advertising Manager .........Bob Rudyand Saint Mary's College. It does not op1mons on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor .....Ellen BuddY. Cf?"troll~..................Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brassll Ctrcu/atio11 Manager......Greg Hedges 

1__ 
The Observer 
White House searches for secretary of education 

After Apodaca met with Car-.----------------,-----------.; 
• • . Trustees 
[conhnued from page 1) 
ments. 
Student Government is 
concerned with the input of 
students into tenure decisions. 
At present, the only student 
input is in the form of student 
evaluation forms. These forms 
are not used uniformly to 
evaluate teacher performance, 
Imbriaco said. Imbriaco is also 
concerned that students do not 
realize how they can affect 
University decisions about 
tenure. 
Three members of the Black Cultural Arts Council attended yesterday's meeting and requested that the Committee support tht>:n in their move­ments for an increased budget allotment from student govern­ment and increased recognition as a campus organization. While support of this kind lies outside the charter of the Student Affairs Committee, a discussion ensued· which allowed members of the SG Board of Commissioners and the BCAC to clarify their posmons. SG officials noted that they had not permanently refused to fund the BCAC but had only delayed funding until commitments from other sources could be determined. 
Student Government Executive Coordinator Hose Marrero updated the Committee on University Housing. Marrero explained the system by which SG representatives and University representatives were reviewing dormitories to decide on necessary renovations. According to Marrero, a committee had been formed to research each dorm. After all the dorms had been looked at, the committee prioritized the dorms and the renovations. The possibility of these renovations is now being evaluated by Business Affairs. 
Other issues disc.:ussed at the­meeting include a possible change· in the structure of hall judictal councils, an update on off-campus security and the student input into the selections o~ the new campus securitydirector. 
) im Zarzana, Graduate Student Union President, also reponed to the Committee on the actions of the recently revitalized GSU. Zarzana emphasized the GSU' s concern with the accreditation ~f Memorial Library and the mcreased availability of travel grants to graduate students. These grants are allotted to graduate students who wish to participate in conferences across the country. 
Glee Club 
to begin 
concerts 
This sunday the 1979 Notre Dame Glee Club will begin its conert season with a 9-day tour of Northeastern United States. The tour will encompass a stop in Greenville, Pennsylvania on Oct. 21, Rochester, New York on Oct. 22, Burlington, Ver­rti8HtJon Oct. 23, B&'ton, Mas­sachusetts on Oct. 25, Lincroft, New Jersey on Oct. 27, Down­ingtown, Pennsylvania on Oct. 28, and Mt. Lebanon, Pennsyl­vania on Oct. 29. The tour will be highlighted by free days in Boston and New York. 
Soon after returning from tour, the Glee Club will be performing its first campus concert of the semester. The concert will be held on Noverm­ber 2 in Washington Hall at 8:15p.m. and adm1ssion will be free. 
Banners need approval 
Student Government has 
announced  Jiat  all  students  
must  have  their  banners  
approved  prior  to  the  USC  

game. Distasteful banners will not be allowed on the field. Security will be on the field to confiscate unapproved banners. 
A Student Government task force will review the banners in rhe LaFortnne Rathskellar today from ~:30 -5 pm. and 
( 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Caner adminisuation has broadened its search . for a secretary of Education after former New Mexico Gov. ] erry Apodaca apparently t~ed hiiDself out of the job, White House sources say. 
A day after President Caner signed a bill creating the De­partment of Education, White House aid~s said the search is far from complete. Some of the best-known names "' {>Ubliceducation are under considera­tion, they indicated. 
These sources, who declined to be identified, said that at least seven names are on various lists, but that no list has been sent to Caner. No consensus candidate has emerged among the White House staff, they said. 
ApOdaca, 45, originally pro­moted by White House political aides interested in seeing more 
:appointments from the Hispa­1ntc community, had been 
thought to have the inside track 
on the education post. While 
he is formally· still on the lists of 
candidates, he actually is out of 
the· running, these aides said. 
''He didn't impress the presi­dent in a meeting they had,'' said one aide. "He apparently wasn't that heavy substantively on education issues.'' 
1 'The reactions to him, by the president and others, weren't that _great," said another aide. 
ter, the sources said, the whole 
process staned over ·to find a chief to run the department which will have 17,000 emplo­yees and a $14.2 billion budget. 
The sources said that promi­nent on the lists are: Alan K. Campbell, director of the Office of Personnel Management; Mary Berry, who has been assistant secretary for educa­tion in the Deparunerit of Health, Education and Welfare; Wilson C. Riles, superinten­dent of California's school sys­tem; Robben W. Fleming, who used to head the University of Michigan; Clifton R. Whanon 
.D 
journalist Bill M~et'l. · 
lnteryiewed '&f ~·telephone yesterday, Apodaca, whose gu-. bernatorial term expired in 1978, said he met with Carter in the Oval Office for half an hour in early August and again aboard Air Force One on Oct. 10 during a flight to New Mexico. 
He said they discussed edu­cation issues, but he said he knew of no change in his status. 
I'I really never had any status to change. I've had no indica-· tion from the president, who is the only one who counts, that 
INFLATION FIGHTER: 

DINNER FOR $5.45 
When you're really hungry, order a complete 
dinner with all the trimmings at a price that 
tastes as good as the food ...There's 
succulent prime rib, fresh fish, and saucy 'teriyaki chicken ... It's more than a 
mouthful ... 
Sunday Noon to 4p.m. Mon. thru. Thurs. 5p.m. to 7p.m. 


for  students  to  get  their I I 
banners on TV.  I TM I  
-----··-------'------------------------------------------....  

---I 
I'm either the front-runner or even under consideratiQO fot' ile job. •' · -·­
. Political considerations played a role in . creating the depanment. Durmg the cam­
. patgn, Caner won the first endorsement ever from the National Education Association after he pledged to create the depanment. After the House completed action on the porpo­sal, the leadership of the NEA, the nation's largest teacher group with 1.8 million me!Dbers agreed to back Caner m the 1980 primaries. 
tAl ANTED
V V .1'1 

Students interested in government and public affairs. Students who would like a voice in determining public policy decisions. Interviews will be held to discuss graduate studies at the 
SCHOOL OF URBAN AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS, CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY 
on Thursday NofJ. 8, 1979 from lpm-'Pfn ra; In the Office of Placement Services. 


Jr., head of the State University._________________________. of New York, and television 

~.I 
The most delicious, most sumptuous dinners oua a1ew menu could offer ... Luscious entrees come complete with salad, vegetable, bread, and your choice of baked potato, rice, or french fries ... Our modest prices complete this tasty picture . . . So add a little spice to your dining. 

tomorrow from 9:30-10:30 a.m. 1 All approved banners will be collected and transponed to gate 17 at the stadium where students may pick them up when half-time begins. 
Students will be issued half­time passes allowing them on the field at the beginning of the half. Th~s will be the only way 

Those tasty creations that'll tickle your palate and tantalize· your pocketbook... Imagine th£ sirloin supreme, top sirloin covered with Monterey Jack cheese, sauteed mushrooms, onions and peppers...Or juicy beef brochette, charbroiled sirloin bits marinated In a delicious burgundy sauce ...There's even a fresh catch of the day for seafood lovers ...They must be tried to be believed . . . 
52885 u.s. 31 North South Bend, 272·5478 
Phone lor reservations 


The Observer Friday, October 19, 1979-page 10 

l. 
Atemptingly tasteful comedy ... 
"~'h 
~[!!] 
\ ' 
SHOWS 
2:00-4:45 
7:30-9:45 


1 
t 
l 1 
l 
'' 

Southern Cal's Charles White [left) and Notre Damt-' 's Vagas 

Ferguson each hope to promote their Heisman trophy chances tomorrow. See story on page 
12 of ''The Irish Extra. '' 

Poet recieves Nobel Prize 
STOCKHOLM , SWEDEN light'' and' its portrait of the (AP~ -Green poet Odysseus world around us with a ''wealth logy in Piuis.' Elyus, who seeks ·'true reality'' of fr~shness and astonishing Last year's Nobel literature 
, 
through vivid works· strongly expenences. '' laureate was Polish-born short­rooted in the landscape, life and Elytis' best-known work is a story writer and novelist Isaac age-old tradition of his native cycle of mythical poems entit­Bashevis Singer, an American land, was awarded the 1979 led "To Axion Esti" ("Worth it citizen who writes in Yiddish. 
r ------------·-Nobel Prize for literature yes­Be"), which was published in But the Swedish Academy has terday. 1959 after more than a decade's frequently chosen aged and The 68-year -old Elytis, little work. The academy called it relatively obscure poets--in­
I I known outside the Greek lang­''one of 20th-century litera­cluding Spaniard Vicente Alei­
FREE PITCHER
I I 
uage, edged out a half-dozen ture's most concentrated and xandre in 1977, Italian Eugenito internat~onally acclaimed writ­richly faceted poems.'' Montale in 1975 and Swede ers who had been highly touted Elytis was born to a weH­Harry Nartinson in 1974.
I OF SOFT DRINK I 
favorites for the prestigious ~nown industria~ family on the Those c'?nsidered pos~ibil!ties honor. Island of Crete .{n 1911, jsut a this year mduded English nov­
I Buy any Family Size pizza and get a I Reached by tel~phone in his few years before it was fr~ed elists Graham Greene and Doris pitcher of your favorite beverage FREE small bachelor's flat in Athens, from Turkish rule. He studied Lessing, and Turkish epic wri­I with this coupon. Limit one coupon per I he told a reporter he was law and political science at the ter Yasar Kemal. 
surprised and thankful ''on myI pizza ordered. No other 
I own behalf and my country's as 
offer valid. a poet and a Greek,''I I The literature prize, awarded
Expires__;;1;:..::.0~V2=-5~/.:...::.79__. by the Swedish Royal Academy • • . Ford 
I 
I· of Letters, was the last of the
PiZZA 
six 1979 Nobels to be awarded. [continued from page 1) ago that Ford was the only
PARLOR 
I Each is worth $190,000. Five of president in the last 10 years toISHAKEY'S PIZZA PARLOR ~he 10.laureates are Americans, major legislation yet never dip­"cross the gulf'' between gov­
I 2313 E Edison Rd........289-5555 
Wort~·!> grrulr!il p1zza: 
I mcludmg four of seven science P.ing into the congressional ernment and the university
323 E Ireland Rd..........291-7500 
prize-winners. The awards cer-'pork barrel,'' a fund set aside campus. He described Ford at emony will be conducted Dec. in congress for funding individ-that time as a man who "has 10 in Stockholm. ual representitive's special in-not only thrown a bridge across Elytis--aJpen name for Odys-terests inside their own district. tha:t gulf, but has walked across 
L---------..----J 
Celebrate with us at 
seus Alepoundhelis--is the sec-He was nominated by then­that bridge to us.'' ond Greek to win the Nobel for President Richard Nixon for the 
But perhaps the most telling
, Franco's Ristorante 
·· litenttu:re·, Giorgos Sef«is, a vice-presidency in 1973 after­
fellow poet in the surrealist-the resignation of Spiro Agnew, 
Serving the finest Italian American Cuisine 
influenced Greek school of the ;and assumed the presidency in

;.­
.. 
1930's was the laureate in 1963. '1974 following Nixon's resigna­
(958 LWE) 
The 18-member Academy said tion. He is considere<r an Hours: Fri. 5-10:30 p.m. 
in its citation that Elytis • s "internationalist" in foreignSat. 9-11:30 a.m. 
poetry ''depic~s with sensuous affairs, a moderate in domestic 3-10:30 p.m. 
strength and intellectual clear-affairs, and a conservative the Also vistt the newly opened 
1 ~' 
sightedness modern man's fiscal strata of government. struggle for freedom and crea-Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Uni­
FlapPers Lounge 
tiveness.'' versity president, noted in his 
Live piano bar entertainment 
Hours: Daily 2 a.m.-2 p.m. 
Sat. 11 a.m.-2 p.in. 
Both located on the corner of Lincoln~y East and Sample 
! 
Private R<iom Available Phone 287-5344 
•.. ! 
~ i 
~ .i 
' 
. 
~-.-·t 

It praised its ''sensuality and introduction ofFord three years 
Do you want to become a certified 
SCUBA DIVER? 
All interested ND-SMC students­
Organizational meeting Tuesday, Oct. 30 
at 7:30pm in Room 2D of LaFortune 

Student Center If you are serious, coml! 
ready to pay Q $30 deposit. 
Course Fee Includes : 

l 
I 
Textbook and all class mat~>riaL~.

* 
'four ou:;t ma.':,~·. }~';;,~-(_~ snorkt.d to keep.

* 
~· 
-1ii ut;U!r •Uji!iptnt·Ju' rt'lftni 

I ­
l 
• 
-~· 
.•' 



compliment of that day three years ago came from Dr. Hunt­er S. Thompson, a generally radical journalist who develop­ed the Rolling Stone style of journalism in the early 70's. · Thompson, who spoke on cam­pus the evening before Ford's address, was quoted in the March 17 issue of The Observer as saying "I don't think Ford is a bad guy. He's f'ot outright viscious or evil like Nixon." 
Ford's schedule dl)t!s not con­tain as mar·y activit;es as did his 12-hour stay in 1975. Hesburgh. who ~erved on Ford's Presidential Clemency Board for Vietnam \Var offend­ers, will nvt be on campus on the day of _r.;-ord's ~peech, but will have br·eakfast with the former president Tuesday morning betiJre Fr: d's 9 a.m. departure. 
While he [:.; ..m ca"llpus, Ford will be hosed by r·r1~ Student Body Pre:-d.ent 1~· '1 Roche, who, alon!" ..qrh Vic~-President for StudeiH •\ffairs will greet
Ford at rh , ,v.m .. h{ speech will be -,~~ _;;ored t.. the Law SchO(ll'..: c,~ · ;, ·· ·>.. :· whirh ~y.._-:-,-.. e~t .. ' 'i, 

.. \'

<: cd:'!"l~" .. e nhiL1 
,_· ,._
. ·' 

i i . ! -•. '!~-T,_..;. I .. <: i pu:' . '! 
~ ~.·,ri~,_~\~i, 
. ' . -, -. '-. ' ~ 

a a a: • 


an Observer sports supplement 
Devine and Robinson anticipate showdown 
by Paul Stauder 
The Notre Dame-Southern Cal­ifornia football game renews the most glamorous intersectional rivalry in college football, and the attention paid the game i& greater than any other regular season contest in the land. 
Just ask the two coaches for a few minutes of their time and you'll be told to get in the back of a long line behind well-wishers, media, and ticket­seekers, and that "Coach is in a film session right now.'' 
It boggles the mind to think that on top of preparing their teams for the biggest game of the year, both John Robinson of USC and Dan Devine of Notre Dame must also take care of ions of extraneous chores. In the midst of all the excitement, however, neither Robinson nor Devine has lost sight of the fact that he has a game to try to wm tomorrow. 
"I think it's an important game for both teams," Devine says. "Southern California is trying to regain national recognition after their tie with Stan­ford last weekend ... and we have a chance to jump up in our national prestige. The important thing to both teams is winning just for their own personal pride.'' 
Without a doubt, both teams boast superlative football traditions, as Robinson infers when he says ''Both teams are used to winning.'' 
Southern Cal comes into the game 



The battle for the coveted Hei'sman Trophy will be in full swing tomorrow at Notre Dame Stadium. See Mark Perry's story on page 12. 
The real 'Comeback Kid' 
Lisch carries faith onto gridiron 
b.Y Cratg Chval back from the first injury of srring Sports Writer drills through the final snap o the 1979 Cotton Bowl. And after a slow 
Nobody could really blame Rusty start, he had a spectacular season. Lisch if hewer~ bitter. 'And .if f~otb3:ll When Notre Dame opened the 1978 ~ere the most tmportant thmg m hts season by losing to Missouri and hfe, maybe he would be. . Michigan, Montana was missing wide-
Notre -qame us~ally·treats tts quar..-~•'lo.Peii receive~srund throwing interctp~ 
terbacks hke mov1e stars. In the eyes of Irish fans, the quarterback can do no wrong. Except lose football games. 
Two years ago, Rusty Lisch com­mitted the unpardonable sin--he was the starting quarterback when the Irish were stunned by a pitiful Miss is­sippi team. His woes were compound­ed the following week when Notre Dame fell behind Purdue 24-14.
Joe Montana saved Notre Dame's skin with the. fabled 31-24 comeback win, but for Lisch, the damage had already been done. 
Several weeks later, Montana was mildly shaken up, and Irish head coach Dan Devine sent Lisch into the game. He was greeted with scattered boos from the Notre Dame Stadium crowd. 
Lisch finished the season inglorious­ly, getting mop-up time when the Irish were winning by scores of 69-14, 49-0, and 48-10. He even played in the 1978 Cotton Bowl, as Notre Dame trounced Texas 38-10 to win the National Championship. 
But the people still weren't satis­fied. They didn't want a No. 1 team with an 11-1 record, they wanted a perfect season. And if Joe Montana had been the starting quanerback from Day One, the Irish would have been 12-0. Joe Montana could do no wrong.
In 1978, the people got their wish--Montana was the No. 1 quarter­
nons at very mopportune times. It was 
easy to conclude that deep down 
inside, Rusty Lisch was bitter. 
Notre Dame's coaching staff de­cided during last season that unless Montana was injured they would not use Rusty Lisch at ali. That way, he could take an extra year of eligibility and quarterback the team in 1979, when Montana's graduation would leave Dan Devine without an experi­enced quarterback. 
If he were bitter, Rusty Lisch might have said thanks, but no thanks. Or he might have said take this job and shove. it. Or he might have just laughed. 
But instead, he decided ~o return. Rather than quietly and safely finish his education, Rusty Lisch decided that he was strong enough to take the risk. The risk that he might fail, that he might be booed by his own student body. But he could onlr make that dectsion because footbal is not the most important thing in his life. 
"My. outlook on life is that I'm a Catholic, and everything revolves around my faith," says Lisch. "Foot­ball is just a means to get where I'm going. God gave me a certain talent, and I try to use it for Him just like I try to use my other talents in everyday life." 
That philosophy enables Lisch to .Put his exp~riences of two seasons ago tn a positive light. 
''Everybody is confronted with tri­als," he says. "The Good Lord tests you, and if you can come through it, you'll be stronger for it. I think my experience two years ago helped me all the way around--mentally, physi­cally, and spirttually. ''' 
So Lisch chose to come back and play, unafraid of not succeeding. 
''With my outlook, you just have to put things in God's hands," he explains. "I have to work hard to prepare myself, and then I let Him 
[continued on page 14] 


with a 5-0-1 record and a fourteen 
game unbeaten streak that includes 
27-25last-minute victory over the Irish 
in Los Angeles last November. · 
The Trojans dominated the game for 
three quarters, and 1ed 24-6 before 
Notre Dame posted 19 fourth-quarter 
points to take a shon-lived lead. 

''The series has been one in which 
one team tends to dominate the other 
totally at times," Robinson says, 
referring to last year's up-and-down 
affair and citing USC's 49-ooint 
second-half barrage in 1974. 

The Irish have had their days, too, 
particularly in 1977, when the green­
clad team that was to use the game as 
a springboard to a national title 
romped to a 49-19 win in Notre Dame 
Stadium. 

Tomorrow's. game could be just as 
explosive and unpredictable, since 
each team's personnel is regarded as 
the best in the country at what they do. 
Charles White and Vagas Ferguson 
are the focus of what many are billing 
as a battle for the Heisman. 

Robinson is quick to a_gree, but then 
puts the challenge of one tailback 
versus the other in pers,Pective by 
saying, "Vagas Ferguson ts certainly 
one of the best backs I have seen, and 
he and Charlie as two premier backs to 
be on the same field promises to be a 
treat for the fans, but the focus should 
not be, and will not be on any 
individual players in a game like this 
one. " 

The game will pit two very talented 
teams against each other, as Robinson 
confirms, "You have to be good to be 
playing at USC or Notre Dame." 

But Devine admits that the Trojans 
are the stronger of the two squads, 
"Physically, we can't stand up to them 
so we're going to have to play a perfect 
game with no fumbles or missed 
tackles in order to have a chance. '' 
As of Wednesday's practice, defen­sive tackle Scott Zettek has been . re­moved as a 1starter for the game. and, according to Devine, wilf be lost for three or-fbOr weeks because of a knee injury sustained last w~ekend against Atr Force. David Waymer will probably see some action Saturday according to Devine, and Waymer's comrade in the defensive secondary, 
John Krimm, could possibly play a little. Devine added that the second­ary received a jolt when freshman cornerback Rod Bone, who started in place of Krimm at Air Force, pulled a muscle in practice on Wednesday and left his availability in question. 
Summing up the injury situation, Devine says, "Things don't look very bright that way, but we're going ~o play with enthusiasm and whoever's out there wear in' that green jersey is going to play hard, and that makes up for a lot of things.'' 
On the USC side of the line of scrimmage, Robinson is happy with the personnel he has to use tomorrow. "We are in surprisingly good shape for this point in the season," the Trojan mentor confides, "but we're not as deep as we've been in past years." 
The lack of depth on his squad has forced Robinson to curtail some of the liveliness at his practice sessions this week. "We're not as emotional on the field, but I would say that our practices have been characteristically quiet, but 
[conh'nued on page 12) 


I: 
\ . 
I , 
' : 


.. ! 

--·---~--~----------------~~--------------------------------~ 
~·--·----­
---------.... --------------·-·-·---··----------------------__.. _____ -.... -------______..__ --· ---·--­
The Irish Extra Friday, October 19, 1979-page 12, 
rnattle 
or Heistnan' totnorrow? 

by Marll Perry Sports Editor 
Traditionally, the Notre Dame-USC game has had a bi~ hand in deciding the national championship in football. In five of the last seven years, the winner of this intersectional rivalry has gone on to claim at least a share of the national crown. · 
And with USC highly-ranked all season and Notre Dame still clinging to championship hopes, tomorrow's game could be of equal importance. 
But in addition to the battle for football supremacy, another post­season honor may be decided on the grass of Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow afternoon. Because Charles· White of USC and Vagas Ferguson of Notre Dame have emerged as two of the top contenders to win the Heisman Trophy, the most prestigious award in college footbalL 
Along with defending Heisman winner Billy Sims of Oklahoma, White 
Little Joey: 'The other Browner' 
by Craig Chval Sports Writer 
It's only fitting that Saturday's Notre Dame-Southern Cal classic is Homecoming. Because, in a way,Joey Browner is coming home. 
But he's not coming home to stay. 
Unlike his older brothers --Ross, Jimmie, and Willard --Joey wasn't lured to the Northern Indiana wilder­ness and the Golden Dome. In fact, they're precisely why Joey Browner opted for palm tree and sand instead of Saga and snowflakes. 
Browner never considered bringing his talents--all-state at two different positions in two different states --to Notre Dame, because he didn't want to play in the huge shadow of his three brothers. 
''I wanted to go somewhere where I <;ould make a name for myself,'' says Browner, a freshman defensive back for the Trojans. ''I was always being compared with my brothers, especially Ross, because I used to play defensive 
d .. 
en . 
And before any Notre Dame fans with vivid images of Ross chasing down Tony Dorsett from behind still fresh in their minds begin to chuckle 
opened the season as one of the \ publicity angle, as the writers and 
favorites to win this coveted title. Sims has been hurt by some early-season performances, allowing Fergu­son to burst on the scene as another possible candidate. 
Both of these players have a couple of things going for them,_ things t~at are usually necessary to wm the He1sman: 
1) They are offensive backs. Only . two players Larry Kelley of Yale in 1936 and N~tre Dame's Leon Hart in 1949 have won the Heisman and not . play~d in the offensive backfield (both were ends). The trophy has gone to running backs the last seven years. . 
2) They go to major schools. Publicity is a key to winning the Heisman, no matter how good you are. 
Notre Dame and USC are both schools that get extensive media coverage throughout the year. It also helps if your team wins most of its games. 
3) They appear. on nationallytelevised games. Th1s also helps the 
too loud, consider this: Joey didn't even wait until he was a senior to break all of Ross' records at Western Reserve High School in Warren, OH -­he did it as a junior. 
As a senior, he kept busy by playing five different positions for Southwest High School in Atlanta. In the process, he was named that city's player of the year, and gained all­county, all-state and numerous All­Amenca accolades. 
Joey Browner has seen his share of Notre Dame-USC battles, but if you believe him, that's all he ever thought he'd be--a spectator. 
''The games were exciting,'' Browner remembers, ''but I just enjoyed being here, I ~i,dn't think too much about the teams. 
When reality finally slapped him in the face, Joey still didn't give much thought to becoming Notre Dame's fourth Browner brother. 
''I never thought I would play at Notre Dame," he says. "If my brothers hadn't come to Notre Dame, I would have considered it." 
Although his decision to break with what had almost become a tradition might seem to cast)oey in the role of the family's black sheep, nothing broadcasters who vote for the Heisman sometimes get their only exl?osure to certain _Rlayers through telev1sion. 
l 4) They are very good football . players. This is a must 1f you want to be picked the best in the country. Both players have the proper credentials. 
The two coaches would be the first to 
back up this last point. 
"I've said it before, but Vagas has to be regarded as one of the top running backs in the country,'' says Irish coach Dan Devine. "He has been so consistent week ~fter wee~ that every­one assumes he 11 get h1s 100 or so yards, and he usually does. He's an all-everything as far as I'm concerned." 
''Ferguson does a great job of finding an open lane and searching out the little crack when there isn't a lot there," praises USC mentor John Robinson.. . . 
But Robmson has some htgh pra1ses 
could be farther from the truth. 
"My brothers didn't really say much about the whole thing," Joey insists. ''They were just glad that I had the opportunity to play college ball.'' 
As far as Browner is concerned, his decision to Go West couldn't have worked out better. 
The six-foot, three-inch, 200­pounder has worked his way into the second-string cornerback slot for the Trojans, and hasn't had a second thought. 
''This school (USC) is a lot like Notre 
Dame,''/oey sar.s. "It's the same caliber o footbal , and I really feel at home with it.'' 
But still, there will be a lot of people in Notre Dame Stadium Saturday thinking that Joey Browner will be making his first home appearance of 1979 --and Browner might also include himself in that group. 
•'I know a lot of the guys on Notre Dame's team, and I'm sure it will feel kind of funny playing against them,'' he admits. "But I'll just have to keep my mind on the game..'' 
And hope that -his teammates forgive him ifhe should happen to run off the field toward the West sideline. 

for his own back. "I don't know if I've been around a man I admire more than Charlie White. He's a fierce competi­tor who's both elusive and powerful as a runner, has great balance and vision, is an excellent receiver and is the most durable players I've ever coached." 
''White is prooably the best of the long line of great Southern Cal tailbacks;'' Devine echoes. ''We know you can't stop him totally, so we're JUSt going to try and contain him. He's a great competitor and I'm sure he'll want to do especially well against us.'' 
Both White and Ferguson come into the ~arne with the kind of early-season statlstics you need to win the Heis­man. White has gained 740 yards on 100 carries and has scored seven touchdowns. He now ranks sixth on the all-time NCAA rushing list with 4535 yards, and only needs 181 more to move into third behind Tony Dorsett and Archie Griffin. 
Ferguson is also closing in on some records, as he only needs 21 more yards to move pastJerome Heavens as Notre Dame's all-time best rusher. The senior tri-captain has gained 627 yards (70 percent of Notre Dame's rushing total on the season) on 142 carries, and has scored six touch­downs. 
But trophies and records matter little to these backs at the present time. The big worry is the game itself. 
''It would be great to win the Heisman," White admits, "but what I want USC to do is keef winning, and honors will take care o themselves. " 
"I never think about individual performances or records," reveals Ferguson. "The team is the most important thing, and winning is the most important thing for the team. Whatver records or rewards come as a result of that effort will be a bonus after the season is over.'' 
It's a good bet that one of this talented pair will be getting that bonus; a bronze statue that says to everyone "I'm the best there is!" 
• • .Devine 
[continued from page 111 

still focused and intense,'' he explains. 
When the two teams take the field, Devine will be worried about whether or not his injury-riddled defense can . sufficiently contain White and Paul McDonald, the Trojan quarterback who has already thrown e1ght touch­down passes this season. 
' 'I think that this will be the toushest test our defense has run up agamst this fall. No one we've seen has a running-passing combination that matches White and McDonald,'' Devine confesses. 
To stop the running of White, an extra burden will be placed on the Notre Dame corners, where "coming quick to stop the run" in Devine's words "makes you more susce~table to the pass." It will be interesung to see how well the inexferienced Notre Dame secondary wil be able to successfully solve the two-pronged dilemna that. White's legs and McDonald's arm poses for it. 
Robinson sums up the key to the game as being related to problems that both teams have experienced through­out the series, those being the problems of sustaining intensity throughout the course of an entire game. Last year's contest is a prime example to the Trojan coach, who saw his team dominate for !hree quarters, only to have Notre Dame come back and almost squeak out a victory after his team let up. 
''Both teams are able to control the ball and drive to score,'' Robinson says, "But the team that can play to a higq level throughout the game will be the ultimate winner.'' 
S\_ I
u so

a 
• 

-·--.. -··---·~ ~------·---··-----------·----~---· ----~------·---· ... _ ·--·------·--·~· ------· --... 
The Irish Extra 
From Schwartz to Devine 
Irish-Trojan series: reflections 

by Mike Henry Sports W Titer 
The cheers have faded to a ghostly whisper, and all the awards, trophies and other mementos recognizing the deception, the speed, the bruising power and fine sportsmanship he embodied, are tarnished, obscuring what happened to be the culmination of a truly gilded era in SJ?Orts. 
Now, secure for a rime m his echelon as the sixth all-rime Notre Dame rusher, two time All-American Marchy Schwartz awaits this Saturday's clash in South Bend with something of the fervor and excitement that he brought to Irish games when Knute K. Rockne was considered infallible. 
Now residing in Danville, California, he remembers fondly that "the three games I played against USC were clean, hard fought, and contested with a great deal of sportsmanshif on both sides. The media, as wei as each team's fine record, was responsible for turning this game into an instant 'natural rivalry,' and it replaced the Army game as our truly big game of 
I the season.'' 
The 1930 ~arne is retained vividly in the active mmd of this gentleman, who was credited by a Los Angeles scribe with being responsible for that sea­son's most jarring tackle (in a 14-0 win over Northwestern). 
"Southern Cal, which had averaged 42 points a game, was made 27-point favorites by the West Coast wnters, who blew the game completely out of proportion. Ofcourse, that was Rock's last game as head coach --we missed him so the next year. If he had still been around, I don't think I'd have experienced a loss in my college career." 
******************** 
It is during those immediate mo-
The author, Mik.e Ventre, is sports editor ofThe Daily Trojan, the student newspaper at the University of Soutliern Caltfornia. 
by Mike Ventre 
Brad Budde walks with a slow gait out of USC's Heritage Hall and rests his 6-5, 255·pound frame on the steps outside. On his head sits a white, ten-gallon hat, from far away making him look like Roy Rogers on anabolic steroids. Despite his intimidating size he is warm and amiable to those who approach him. He speaks in gentle tones, inviting friendship. 
On many football fields across the country where the USC Trojans do battle, Budde is quite a different character. He speaks of his love for leading USC's fabled 28 pitch because "you almost have to be a destroyer, an animal.'' He loves the strategical disparity between a pass and run play (''On a pass play I have to sit back passively and wait for them to come to me before I become an animal."). 
Budde's upbringing speaks vol­umes on the noticeable difference between his off-field demeanor and his football fanaticism, which he himself terms ''aJ eckyll and Hyde act. 1 ' He is a devout Christian, a fact that rele­gates the game of football to a very small part ofhis life. He is also the son of former Kansas City Chief guard Ed Budde, which brings up the obvious assumption: this guy must have been handed shoulder pads and a helmet in the delivery room. 
"I was never pushed in any way," he said. "The expectations were there for me to develop. I was always a non-aggressive football player until I came to USC. In that way my parents did help me by tellin~ me I needed to be more aggressive. ' 
~--·-­
ments of shock, grief, and bewilder-autumnal playing fields beca~e he 
ment following defeat when we grasp understands the universality of\ the the essence of the man; Woody chews game'sa~aL . . _..··•·•···•·· up yard markers, punches _ph_oto: ...·s t.·o.g.e~.···.···.·.~.·.·_·.··••.·. ....l
"Q)J1~g·····e·. football b,f.~n~ __ .. al

graphers and turns school offictals generattops of a family,'~ th~JABC faces redder than the Buckeyes' home ~mmentat9r note!ii. ult is ®ly a jerseys; so many lock themselves in an.. ~ufe for all to,t"~ly about. 
office that, used as an escape hatclj•··· ···•·•·•··· .~'t don't thjbk there's anydif{erencefrom. prying media .People, allo~ ;;)J~twe¢0~·-·~Y;~eU:~-NJ.? g~~.and emottons to cool behmd a facade o{,*,,;-.. tlte T~•:-Old®..oma ga~., ~any 
sh~e~~ 5Lif~uci:!~kZr. the coaching ~~~~~ ..;~~:~~ !h~e~o~IJ~h:u~~;r~· 
loss With alacnty an~ good .humor,. but 
rarely had to dunng his glonous tenure on the Southern Cal campus. And for John McKay, not once did the annual USC-ND battle become an Armageddon. His heritage, coupled
· ·h h · d h. · · d 1
y.ru a s arp wtt ~n ts. 1nsp1re .roe 
m the senes, gtves hrm a umque~erspective on this keenest of rival­
ne.~Growing up as a Catholic in West Virginia, Notre Dame, naturally, was the team I always rooted for." As he speaks from his office at One Buecaneer Place, one senses a longing 
to face the intense, brooding Armenian again across a sea of ~rimson and gold and blue and gold Jerseys. 
"It's the greatest thrill in college football, and no other game captures the attention of the whole nation. I've said 100 times that there's no place I'd rather be standing than on the other side of the field in Notre Dame Stadium.'· 
After delivering an untold number of greetings from Tuscaloosa, Norman, and South Bend, the colors, names and numbers must have merged into one giant glob in the brain of Keith Jackson. So many millions associate his pleasant voice with the 
Buddee 
_·bits 'Jec 
His aggressiveness has taken hold and drawn rave reviews. Playboy Magazine selected Budde as a pre-sea­
son  All-America  in  1979  and  the  
Associated  Press  had  him  as  an  
honorable  mention  All-America  in  

1977 and 1978. Gil Brandt, the Dallas Cowboy superscout and on the board of the Play_boy selectors, calls Budde "an NFL first round draft choice. I've seen him play and he is a very talented young man. He has the size and speed to be in the NFL. He's well coached in the basics ofpass protection. And he's also a fine young man, nor the kind to let his press clippings go to his head.'' 
USC head coach John Robinson's observations go beyond the mechanics of talent. "Brad isJrobably one of the most ambitious an motivated players I've ever known. His commitment to the team and his responsibilities and his focus on a goal strike me as his most obvious qualities. As a team leader, there is no better model than Brad. He is the greatest kind of leader because he shows the way, by exam­ple, rather than pointing the way.'' 
Budde has played organized football since the second grade, dividing duty between offense and defense. At Rockhurst High School in Kansas City, MO., Budde led his team in tackles as a senior defensive lineman. But it was as an offensive guard that Budde caught the eyes of scouts everywhere, earning h1m spots on Parade Magazine's and Coach and Athlete's .All-America teams. 
''Brad came out of high school as already one of the best players around, but he's improved each year," said USC offensive line coach Hudson Houck. "Determination sets him apart from other players. He wants to be the best at what he's doing." 
Determination and an opportunity opened up hy an injury efirned Budde 
);~~~~ e~bec~:st~.:h~ ~:~ ::::d --~f~~~e~!~a~~~~:O~a!~~.' 
~ j.&!. mss ~~··· 1974;-SOu~ern Cal­Nu~re. Qame xgame, m whtch the ;J;roj-.ri~ rallied from 24-0 to win 55-24, .~fan~ o~~.]l~f.a,r40,f}B ~e games I'':e · s~n. ~u~ ']~,pptu,tQ~~/ this shootout 1s 
tb.· ..
.. ·.·•••.•..e.•.• 
P:_.~.~~.!in _c.~ll_ele football.'' 
·..·.. Back toy·ou Frank.
•it•: ...· ' ·..··. 
····· · •• ·t~·*::'•** * * * * * * * * • . Prpten ag~~-~'the backdrop of the 
~~~~!~~·~t:t:~s~~~;ibl~ ~mt~~s re~ 
membrances of all who love duLac: a 
gleeful Rod Sherman cradling the 
winning touchdown pass while Ara, 
distraught at coming up shy of a 
perfect season by 93 seconds, tosses 
his h.e~d violently and lets out a low, 
agomzmg cry of hun. 
The man who threw that fateful pass 
15 years ago now sits on the hot spot in 
Corvallis, or, having been informed 
recently, by a pumpkin, that his job is 
in jeopardy. The Great Pumpkin, 
Oregon State University athletic 
director Dee ~ndros (nicknamed for 
his rotund body sbap<:) has told head 
coach Craig ferqg tba~. ~e losses 
which occur so regularly must at least 
be turned into respectable setbacks for 
the Beavers. 
"I miss the ND-USC matchup a 
great deal,'' a surprisingly relaxed 
Fertig relates. "Coach McKay told us 
ar halftime of that game in 19{)4 (~ith 
some starting assignments in his freshman year at USC. Playing a backup role to Donnie Hickman as the stron.g side guard, Budde found him­self flopped to the weak side when Pat Howell went down with an injury. After that, Howell and Budde alter­nated quarters for the remainder of the 1976 season. He has held down the strong side role since the start of his sophomore season. 
Facetiously referring to "years of brainwashing'' as the catalyst that propelled him to his present level of play, Budde feels he is now at his desired height of intensity and a~gres­siveness as a player. That level1s one in which no one should better him, at least in theory. 
"I don't view getting beat on a play as someone defeating me. I see it as I defeated myself,'' he said. ''I believe I can block anyone. I'm not saying that a person can't be good enough to destroy my block, of course. But the 

Brad Budde 

Notre Dame leading 17-0), 'Gentle­men, if we don't score more than 17 points, we're going to lose.' Then he outlined how we would do it. Notre Dame's defensive line had sacked quarterbacks for over 700 yards that year, so on the winning play, we kept everyone but Rod in to block. I had plenty of time to hit him. 
''We were definitely higher for the Irish than any other team, because of the tradition involved and the world­wide interest the game generates. There is a mutual respect on both sides of the field that enables this game to transcend all others. 
"Hey, tell Moose Krause I really miss those Friday nights at the Knights of Columbus." 

******************** 

''The complete feeling of frustra­tion, and bitterness, I would say, following last year's game, rates on a par with the total elation felt after the green jersey game. I've seen four of these games now, and the USC-ND rivalry is definitely unique and the best in the country. 
"Let me explain. When I was an assistant at Mtchigan State, the game with Michi8an rested more on hatred rhan anythmg else. When I took my first head coaching job, at Arizona State, I was amazed at the political overtones inherent in the ASU-Arizona game. The move from being a teacher's college to a state university rested mightily on that game. 
''At Missouri, our ,g~e with Kansas would annua;J!!iftP,I,'n into a resumption of the Civll~~t. J~pot AI Onofrio, who had a g~j~1'tetord at Missouri, was fired because he couldn't beat the J ayhawks. There was bloodletting on both sides of the field. 
"But, tomorrow, well, this is no­
[continued on page 14) 


' act 
way I look at it personally 1s, when I goof up, it's my fault. It's not that he's superior to me.'' 
But invariably when speaking with Budde, football becomes simply a game. Its pageantry i4i dulled by the sudden disappointments that coexist with the more glamorous aspects of the sport. One of these disappoint­ments hit Budde and USC early 10 the 1979 season. Anthony Munoz, another Playboy pre-season All-America, a prime Outland Trophy candidate and one of Budde's closest friends, went down with a knee injury in the first half ofthe season opener with Texas Tech. He was declared out for what would have been his senior season. 
''I've been around football all my life. I've been fortunate to have been exposed to the agony and tragedy of the game," Budde said. "I've been around it long enough to know that there's other things in life. It's a tragedy to see someone like Anthony go down. But that incident didn't make me see the light. I've known it since I've been here." 
Still, there is a love for the game of football that surfaces when Budde discusses previous games, upcoming ones ·and the rigors of off-season training. It most assuredly will pay off in the form of a profess tonal career, but here, too,he is philosophical. 
''I'd love the opportunity if it comes," he said. "I believe the Lord's going to take care of me whatever happens· and I'm not going to worry about it. I'm a public adininistation major and I love school. I'm married (he and his longtime girlfriend Tammy were wed on January 28 of this year) and I love the idea of raising a family. 
''Pro football would be g.r::eat if it happens, but I think of myself as more ~an just a foo.tb~ player: I th~,I can gtve and recetve mother areas. 


--------~-----------------­
I I 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' r 
' 

'­


, I 


BEER VALUES: LIQUEURS & BRANDY SCOTCH 
A-8 LIGHT --------12112 cans '3.59 CORDIALS•. CHRISTIAN BROS.qt. 6.69 1.t5 112.79 GLENLIVET -----------5th '15.59 BUSCH ---------------loose '6.89 REMY MARTIN V.S. ____ 5tt1 115.89 TEACHER'S ------------qt. $9.59 BUD-----------------loose '6.89.1 HIRAM WALKER: COURVOISIER V.S. ----5t~ '12.79 CATTO'S -qt. ... 16.19 L1.75 '11.71'. BLATZ________ 12112 no return 2.69 PEPPERMINT SCHNAPPSqt.'4.69 MARTELL V.S.. 'l.P. ----5tr '14.49 JOHNNIE WALKER RED--qt. '9.98 MICHELOB______ 416 no return '1:§9 FLAVORED BRANDIES--qt.'5.39 MEISTER BRAND ______ 5th'~19.!.69 BLACK ----------;---Qt. '13.89 
Light 416 no return-------'1.99 AMARETTO ------------qt.'6.69 HENNESSY V.S. -------5th f'-.49J & B ---------1.75 18.39 qt.'9.99 MILLER----------12112 tans '3.51 CREME DE MENTH _____ qt.'4.89 METAXA 5-STAR -------5th -9•.& CHIVAS REGAL us'26.79 5th'11.59 12112 no return ------·--'3.51 TRIPLE SEC -----------qt.14.89 CALVADOS -----------5th '11.4!1 BULLOCH & LADES -----Qt. '7.39 MILLER LITE _____ 12112 cans '3.69 SLOE GIN -------------qt'5.09 PAUL MASSON --------st~ ·5.49 PINCH-----------------5th '9.99 
12112 no return ---------'3.69 AMARETT~& COGNAC_ 5th$5.98 KORBEL---------------5th f5.29 ~t~~o::-R~ 75 · 1· 75 · :~~-= a\;~·~: HEINEKEN LIGHT4t6 no return '3.89 TIA MARIA-------------5th '8.69 ALMADEN -------------5th '4.98 --· · qt. , · FAL.';TAFF -----------loose· ~.79 DRAMBUIE______ _: _____ sth '10.99 • OLD SMUGGLER-------qy. 6.19 OLD MILWAUKEE ----looseS.79 GRAND MARNIER -----5th 113.49 TEQUIU MAKINTOSH 1.75. · '10.49 qt. '5.59 PABSr --------------loose •5.49 KAHLUA ---------------5th '7.89 1 USHER~ ---1.75 · · · '11.69 qt. '6.39 
-. AMARETTO Dl SARANNO '10 69 ARANDAS WHITE _______ qt. 5•59 DEWAR S --1.75 ... '17.89. qt. '9.99 
Li).,ht 12t12 cans-------:--'3.29 5th · MONTE ALBAN MEZCAL 5th '9.69 GRA T'S • s10 49
STROH_S ·------------loose ,~BENEDICTINE---------5th :11.49 CUERVO WHITE ---------Qt. '6.79 ~ -0----QB · · · · leght 12112 cans---------3.4~GAI:-LIANO ------------5th 10.79 Vat 69 t. 5. SCHLITZ-------------loose '6.69 MANDARINE NAPOLEAN5th 'J0.~9 RUM CANADiAN Light 12112 cans---------13.89 COINTREAU -----------5th '9.29 BACARDI ---1.75.. 1 10.39 qt. '5.69 ' . 1
Malt 4/6 cans-----------'1.79 COCO RIBE------------5th $6.59 BACARDI 151° ----------at. 18.39 . WHISKEY OLYMPIA------------loose '6.98 CAFE LOLITA----------5th '5.39 APPLETON WHITE ______ 5th •&.59 
Gold 12112 cans---------'3.69 PERNOD---------------5th '6.99 LEMON HART DEMERARA5th •&.49 CANADIAN ~·ro.-89 qt 17.98 HAMM'S -------------loose '6.49 CAMPAR1--------------5th 17.29 CANADIAN LTD .. 1. ' 0.09 at1 5.39 OLD STYLE ....12112 no returns '3.98 SOUTHERN COMFORT--qt. '7.39 BOURBON MACNAUGHTON --x~........ -Q!-~~ LOWENBRAU ____ 416 no return '2.59 IRISH MIST------------5th$10.19wALKER'S DELUXE _____ qt. '6.29 WALKER'S --1.75 · · \~·49'qt.$.49 MOLSON'S ALE_ 416 no return '2.39 _BOGGS CRANBERRY ---litre '9.89 ANCIENT AGE ---------qt. ,6_ WINDSOR--1.75 · · · '10.98 at.~
09 

CHAMPALE WHITE -----6!4 '1-:.69 YUKON JACK----------5th :s.49 OLD FORESTER _____ 86• qt. '7.19 CROWN ROYAL 1.75'22.98 5th'9.98 RED, WHITE a BLUE --loose 15.39 MOLINARI SAMBUCA ---5th 8.59 --------------------100" qt. '9.19 V.O. -----------1.75'14.79 qt. '7.98 WEIDEMAN ----------loose ~~-~JMETAXA OUZO --------5th '8.19 BARCLAY'S -------------Qt. '4.99 LORD CALVERT -1.75'1_!.29 qt.~.99 GROLSCH SWING --------'1.19; CARAMELLA -----------5th '5.49 ·OLD GRAND DAD---86" qt. '7.79 CANADIAN MIST 1.~ 1_.!.9qt~.0~ 
MARASKA SLIVOVITZ ___ 5th 17.69 TEN HIGH --1.75 ... '9.49 qt. '5.1! .
RETURNABLES: STREAGA _____________ 5th 110.99 JIM BEAM------------1.751~39-,CHAMPAGNES: BUSCH------------------'7.89 CHARTREUSE---------5th '11.49 -----------------------qt. ' .69 ' BUD---------------------'7.89 GRANDTULLY ----------5th 15.99 -------------:________ gal. '21.89 ANDRE----------------5th '2.29 BRAUMEISTER -----------'4.39 LOCHAN ORA---------5th '12.29 JACK DANIELS --------5th '8.49 JACQUES BONET------5th '2.29 FALSTAFF---------------'6.29 PETER HERRING-------5th '8.59 EARLY TIMES1·75· · '11.19 qt. '5.98 MARTINI a ROSSI ASTI. 5th '8.09 FOX---------------------'4.39 FRANGELICI ----------5th '11.1Y MATTINGLY a MOORE 1.75 ~9.69 TAYLOR EX-DRY-------5th '5.09 
4•89

HUBER------------------~9 WILD TURKEY LIQUEOR5th '12 79 -----------------------qt. PAUL MASSON --------5th '6.39 
' 10·

MILLER------------------(7.59 BOLS BLUE CURACAO_ qt. '5:49 ANTIQUE---1.75. · 89 qt.·~ CHRISTIAN BROS. ______ 5th '5.39 MILLER LITE-------------'6.89. ARAK RAZZOUK -------5th '8.59 WILK TURKY --------as· 5th c8_J)9 LANSON FRENCH------5th '9.69 OLD MILWAUJ(EE ---· . _'6.49 ,, GIN . 'MOET WHITE STAR ---5th :11.49 PABST --------------·~ VODKA --.MUMMS BRUT--------5th 13.39 
PFEIFFER---~----------'4.59 STOLICHNAYA ---------5th '8.69 WALKER'S ~-1~ ... '9.59 qt. '4.99 RHINELANDER-----------'4.59 KAMCHATKA. 1.75...17 89 Qt. $4.19 GILBEY'S --1.75. :-, '10.29 qt. 15.49 WINES STROH'S ---------.:·.:·------'6.69 DARK EYE FLAVORE[):_ 5th '4.29 TANOUERAY1.1s · · -~t.8.99' 1SOOn';;lfferent types to choose'(rom: 
QUARTS•. SMIRNOFF----------100" Qt. '6.89 BOMBAY --------------ltr. '9.09 
c-BELLOWS _____________ 1.75 '8.29 BLUE NUN 5.th ~ 59 
=~~~~:::::::::::::::::: :~:: DARK :i~~~-::~~~::~~:~:.:;:;:;.t~: ~~E~~::~~·i=:::::=,~:~:S;.ii ~~~~:~:::::::::::::: :: ~ 
COLT 45-----------------'7.79 KELLER GEISTER '2 49 BLATZ-------------------'6·29 --------------------ao· qt. 14'59 B__E_E_F_E_A--T-E·R·------------qt.$ 1 154'3799 REAL SANGRIA ------5th '2.99 FALSTAFF '6 98 ----too• qt. ... '5.39 1oo• 1.75 '9.99 ---------1.75 . --------qt. . MILLER ---------------• CROWN RUSSEu5.. '8.29 qt. '4.29 -------,----------------qt. '8.29 YAGO SANT GAIA------5th '2.79
1 23
------------------8· GORDON'S BOOTHS------------1.75 $10.59 RICHARDS WILD IRISH _5th '1.59
5 ,8 79 ,4 39 
OLYMPIA----------------'7.j~ --1.7 ... ' qt. • . GORDON'S -1.75 ... '9.98 qt. '5.39 MOGAN DAVID CONCORD5th '2.09 PABST ------------------(6.98>WOLFSCHMIDT1.15 .. ·1[4·39 qt.£4~~ SEAGRAM'S1.15 ... '10 39 qt '5 59 T J SWANN 5th 11 69
POPOV 175 19 O...t 39 . . . . . ------------. 
SCHLITZ-----------------'9.49 -------. . . -· 9". • . , BOONES FARM --------5th '1.69 STROH'S ----------------'7.95 BLENDED BOLLA ----------------5th 13.39 OLD ENGLISH 800 -------'7.99 BEER KECS CRISTA BELLA---------5th '2.69 LITTLE KINGS -----------'6.98 .... ...... v. ..,.. WHISKEY CHERRY KIJAFA -------5th '4.49 BIG JUG-----------------'7.49 .Miller-------------$21.00 $33.50 CALVERT --1. 75 . . . 111.29 qt. '6.09 GIACOBAZZI LAMBRUSCO '2.49 



S% more •••• -_--~·_ S% BLaouOR split case-.---.-_-_--1()'%. tull case • • • • • • • 1O% WtNE mill-ed case---.·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_ 15% 

533 50
Miller Ute--------------· SEAGRAM'S1.75 ... Sl1.39 ~t. $6.19 .AlUNITE LAMBRUSCO --5th 2.49
Pabs'-------------$20.50 $32.50 h.
Strohs ____________ $20.50 $32.50 PHILADELPHIA 1.75. '8.98 qt. '4Jl.9 CELLA LAMBRUSCO----5th ·~.29 Busch-----------------$31.00 KESSLER'S 1.75 ...11.Qgqt~.89•MEDICI L4MBRUSCO ---5th '2.39 Budweiser --------520•50 532·50 P.M. DELUXE1.15 ... '8.89 qt. '4.69 ZONIN LAMBRUSCO----5th '2.19
Mlchelob __________ $22.00 $40.00 Helnekens -------------$69.00 IMPERIAL ___ u5 ... '9.59 qt. 15.49 CHATEAU LASALLE ----5th '2.49 

NO ~~~Li'l Cheaper says, "WE'RE CHEAP" ••, • ask our competition! 
~ 





The Observer Friday,'~ 19,1979-page 16 

Books Are A Great Gift Idea Explore the' SECOND FLOOR of the 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Subjects Include: . fZS tJS . S S
0 
\.-.\.··.. ~_.\_·.. 
I 

Democrats hope to see Carter try 
Catholic commitee schedules conference 
Pope John Paul Il's messages during his recent visit to the United States will be examined in the context of ministry for social justice during the annual fall conference of the Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry. Nearly 500 participants are expected to attend the meeting which b~gins Sunday at the University. 
Organized around the theme "'Toward a Just Ec01nomy for the 80s,' • the four-day meeting will move from analyzing the problems to assessing the ap­propriate church and commun­Ity response and, finally, plan­mng specific strategies for ac­tion. The Protestant Commit­tee on Urban Ministry will cosponsor the conference. 
Dr. Helen VoJkomener, S.P., 
NEW YORK (AP)-Half' of the 
nation's Democrats now s~y 
they would like to see Pr~side~t 
carter try for re-elecnon m 
1980, a turna,rou1;1d for ' the 
incumbent in the past month, 
an Associated Press-NBC News 
poll says. · 
With the members of his own pany leading the way, Carter's ~tanding with the public strengthened a bit from Sept­
_ember's historic lows, the J>Oll 
found in interviews Monday 
and Tuesday. 
There were no major Carter 
triumphs in the last five weeks 
to explain the 5 percentage . 
point rise in his job rating--the 
executive director ofthe Notre Dame-based national network of clergy, religious and laity engaged in ministry for social justice, noted this year's suc­cessful effort to increase minor­ity representation especially among women, blacks, and Hispanics. 
Archbishop Marcos McGrath of Eanama will deliver the opening address, entitled, "Economic Justice: A Global Religious Issue," Sunday at 8 p.n•. at the University'-s Athle­tic and Convocation Center, where all sessions will be held. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College faculty, students and staff are welcome to attend sessions without paying the registration fee. 
largest jump since the 16-point surge following the Camp Dav­id Mideast summit in septem­ber 1978. This lac~ of Jl major event to ·explain the fisc: may indicate a possibly significant turnaround in public opinion about Carter. 
However, even with this month's jump, Carter's job rating remains at extremely depressed levels compared to other presidents. 
The public· at large splits on whether Carter should run for re-election: 43 percent favor a Carter bid and 47 . percent oppose one; ten percent of the 1,600 adults interviewed na­tionwide were not sure. 
But 50 percent of the Demo­crats said they favor a Carter try for another term--an 11 point surge compared to last 

One less for the road ·Make that your game plan this weekend. After the game ... 
.1 I }. 

Be smart. Be responsible. Ifyou drink -drink moderately. 
For More Information Contact Notre Dame Psych Services Student Health Center ·,__~_: .. 
283-7336 
month. Fony-one -percent of' the Democrats opposed a Car-· ter bid and nine percent were not sure. 
-In the critical independent group, Carter also rebounded in the new poll. This month, they opposed a re-election bid by a 39-52 margin. But in Septem­ber, the same group opposed such a try by a much larger 29-61 edge. 
The Septemberpoll was taken shortly after the furor erupted over the Soviet brigade in Cuba and after Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., indicated , he was seriously considering a ' primary challenge to Carter. 
Carter's overall job rating is up from the historic depths found last month. 
Twenty-four of those mter­viewed rated Carter's work 

goOd or excellent, versus only 
19 .l?ercent in September.
Fifty ·percent said his work overall is only fair, about the same as in the previous poll. 
Another 24 percent rated his work overall as poor, down from 30 percent last month. Two percent were not sure each month. 
Democrats a~ain led the way for Carter, liftmg their rating of his work from 25 percent excel­lent or good last month to 31 percent giving him the top marks in this survey. 
Among independents, 22 per­cent gave him high ratin~s this month, up four points m five weeks. 
And even Republicans' opin­ions edged up from 10· percent excellent or good to 14 percent this month. 
AT NOTRE THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE Chet Grant (An DAME 1980 CALENDAR ByInside look at Notre Dame Philip C. Thompson $5.95. AFootball before Rockne), $9.95. 
lasting gift (the 12 prints can be framed). 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, A PORTRAIT OF ITS HISTORY & CAM:OUS By Professor Thomas Schlereth (A Beautifully Illustrated History of Notre Dame(, Hardbound $25.00, Paperback $7.95. 

THE FIGHTING IRISH By William Gildea And Christo­pherJennison, regularly$12.95, now on SPECIAL $ S. 98. Dram­atic stories of N.D.'s Football : listory through the ~years. Includes a gallery_ of rar~ and exclusive photos. 
''We aren 't _[UST textbooks _you know I' ' 

1 
i I 
~ 
I 
------__c___-~~~--------~~-~--­

Features  • Friday, October 19, 1979-paAe17  
.LEITERS TO A LONELY GOD Loveliness, Lately Lost Rev. Robert Griffin ~·ve just finished reading a letter memories remain, precious and wntten by a young man in love with a bitte~sweet, t;he campaign medals young woman, who has told him she won 10 an anc1ent war. An old man now has another love. His words are sitti~g by the fire, dreams of a giri so full of pain, so thoughtful and runmng through a meadow, her bare generous, so sorrowing and self­feet stained with the sweetness of repro.achful, that I find myself crushed berries. The dream is a partgnev10g because I cannot re-arrange of him he has kept since youth, a the world for him, bringing these two memory he will take with him to his people together again as Father's house. sweethearts. A young man asks my help and I To feel that you've lost someone want to hug him, because th~re are you love -someone who once loved no shelters he can run to. I can tell you, at a time when you didn't know h~ that pain is fe~t bec~use a part of the truth of what to do about love -is htm that never extsted 1s now being an experience that leaves you born, the child being father to the endlessly on the verge of crying. The ~n. He might understand me but sadness always hangs around. You it wouldn't help. If I were his fa~her c~n feel it. in your face like prickling I could say: "My son, a father's and pms, and 10 your head as a constant husband's love is shaped out of manybuzzing; in the coldness and tremor experiences. I could not have loved of your hands, in the blush that burns rour mother so well in this marriage. your ears when you think, in your 1f I myself had not also lived through stomach like the fullness of a bad the sadness of once losing love. I meal. could not have felt so enriched at When you have loved truly, and your mother's loving me, if ,another have sadly lost; when you remember girl had not turned me down. The with regret verging on heartbreak: love I gave your mother at yourwhat h~s happened, and the things begettins was like a tree that has that mtght have been: a marriage known vtsits from the winter's blast lasting for sixty years, a fidelity made as well as the warmth of a thousand stronger by love and death; then, to suns of summer." escape guilt and remorse, you say: A . father has his own ways of "I'II get over this. I'II survive." You offenng his support to a child. I'm anaethetize grief with hope and only anxious that a young man should common sense; otherwise you understand that pain, too, has its wouldn't know how to keep going. uses. An ache in a tooth can drive us  Equus !USB THeatre girl because he cannot rid his mind of by Randy McNally and Duke King the thought of horses. Embarrassed and ash_amed, Alan frightens the girl. E'luus is a thought provoking drama away wuh threats of physical vio­whtch confronts the audience with lence. Tormented by the realization the mental anguish suffered by that the horses have witnessed this individuals who doubt their roles h~miliating scene, Alan froceeds to ·within' their families and society. ~hod the accusing eyes o the horses m the stable. Under]efferey Koep 's direction, the cast of Equus does an impressive job The lighting design by Thomas ·c. in performing this contemporary Miller helped immensely to set the classic. One of Koep's greatest mood throughout the performance. talents appears to be his casting The dreamlike quality served to unify ability. Each of the actors is each act and acted as a common successful in conveying the intensity ground for the entire play. · of his or her role and evoking -Miller's set design also contributed sympathy from the audience for their to the creation of a tension between particular character. Alan's fantasy world and the real Martin Balsbaugh deserves highest world. The revolving circular plat­praise for his interpretation ofiDy­form at center stage doubled as the sart, who questions his professional examination room and the setting for value to society. Dysart is a tragic Alan's reenactment of his bizarre figure whose skilled efforts to aid the midnig~t rides, thus emphasizing his troubled Alan Strang leave the conv~coons regarding his beliefs. psychiatrist with the feeling of being Whde the action of Eruus is chained · · intense, the drama absorbmg, the play makes the audience realize thatAlan's problem revolves around his the social issues presented in the playobsessive worship or horses. 'Equus' means 'horse' in Latin, hence the are ultimately crucial in defining the title of the play. Alan come to believe relationship of the individual to his that 'Equus,' that is, all horses, is society -although this too may be Jesus Christ. _His mother hounds him viewed as a handicap, as wa.s Alan's maladjustment.indefatigably with pious railings, driving him to equate ] esus with Editor's Note: Equus will be present­'Equus in that both were literally ed at 8:1.5/J.m., October 19and20. bound b_y the will of human beings. The /ina/ performance will be on The play reaches its highest intensity Sunclay, October21 at 2:15p.m. The when Alan bring a girl to his 'sacred' theatre is located on the !USB  

The earth turns, and we move with it. Th~ seasons change; we bury the year 10 December, and find it laughing at us in April. Loveliness ~~~~-ly lost•. ~omes back wearing a ne~ to a dentist; an ache in the heart can lead us to seek heaven. Scripture says we must lose life before we can ~nd it. Maybe it's true of love also, that W!: must bse love h~fcre we C:!i1 
horse stables. Even though he de­campus in the main auditon·um sires to, Alan cannot make love to the Northside Hall. 
of 
wearing a thousand faces; but love 
means no harm to reverence.
showing its back, has the look of th~ 

T cannot ....._arr..,.no-P r-h... -·--' '· r
rich ..,..nn~ """'"'-....hn -cJ•::t!'-...l -· -· 

.. '"--.~ ...~~·· ...... " .. ,......~\..."" 4.W2" ----.. ~ a.Aa..---·--..,••,..n • 
!~~0\.; S.iiii.iiU.g ai: us through d. stranger's eyes. The ice melts the veins thaw. We have indeed survived the winter. Our hearts are anxious to be busy again. 
But the best loves, the rare and authentic loves, are affairs we do not get over, and shouldn't really want to. They fade with time, like water colors on a masterpiece; but find it as an everlasting joy. The heart has a place that the Lord doesn't need, a vacancy to be filled by creatures. We know it's there, 
butwe.d~n't know how bi~ it is, how deep 1t 1s, how lonely it 1s. Maybe we'll never know, until we have lost love, and found it again, in arms that encircle our life. 
Loneliness is a single sorrow from)esus .. God is lonely, and malt 
is lonely, though there's a world of 
difference between them. One feels sorry for God, if hell measures the depth of His loneliness. Even being God, He still gets cheated of love. That's why there must always be sadness in His life, as well as His joy at Being a Trinity. At least, it seems that way to whimsey, and whimsey cannot change eternil scheme;:·Th~ best love I know carries a cross on its back. I'm not clever enough or virtuous enough to lighten tl~ burden of a cross. An old hymn offers us the promise that the ways of the cross leads home. I hope it may be true for all the young men and the women they love, and for all the young women who love them . 


Note: On Saturday, October 13, the Cultural Arts Commission sponsored a bus tnp to Chicago to see the play Annie at the Shubert Theatre, 22 West Monroe Street. 
Annie is a play with no socially 
redeeming values, an inane plot, 
loosely molded scenes, and stereo­
typed characters, all taking place 
upon a stage which borders on the 
gaudy. 
And yet, it's fun, entertaining, and 
alive. 
The virtuosity of author Thomas 
Meehan and lyricistI director Martin 
Charnin is that they use the preten­
tious aspects of sensationalist theatre 
to create an unpretentious pro­
duction. 
The plot revolves around the.Annie of the comic strip, Little Orphan Annie: an eleven year old happy-go­lucky carrot-topped girl who luckily finds happiness as she rises from the life of hard labor of a New York City Ofl?hanage to the gilded splendor of bemg an adopted daughter of one of the world's nchest men. 
The innocence of the girl, her optimism, and the basic structure of the play as comic strip lend them­selves well to the stock format of the traditional musical. In a sense, the play reintroduces this type of musical (best illustrated by shows like: My Fair Lady, The Sound of Music, Fiddler on the Roof, etc.) in an era of exploratory and an-sensitive pro­ductions (characterized by Chorus 
nie in Chicago
Ltne, For Colored Gzrls, and Aint't A · • h "T " 
Misbehavin). 
Since the basic characters lack origi_nality, it is ·dt~ actors' spon­tanetty that must breathe life into the production. Some of the actors achieved this effectively and Mary K. Lombardi aptly interpreted the char­acter of Annie with an effervescence and cunning innocence that won the heart of the audience. Miss Hannigan, the bitchy and selfish orphanage concierge, was portrayed by Laurel Clonin as a humorous ''vi~lain' ', although her actions failed at ttmes to fully realize the potential of the dialogue; Stephen Everett's FI?R (y~s, the ex-J?re~td~nt) pleasant­ly tnteqected a natve JOVtaltty into the tenuousness of some scenes. 
Most disa.epointing, however, was Norwood Smtth's portrayal of billion­aire Oliver Warbucks. Although Smith commanded the stage with his arrogant and authoritative voice, I couldn't quite see the transitional warming of his Wall Street-hardened heart to Annie until halfway into the last act of the play when Warbucks made a sudden leap from robber baron to soft-hearted papa. 
What bound Annie together, easing_ the flaws in ch~acter repre­sentanon, was the mus1c and chor­eography. Composer Charles S~rauss and choreographer Peter Gennaro have created magic in the form of exuber~t, foot-tapping theatrical 
energy. The orphan's "It's A Hard Knock Life," Rooster and Miss Hannigan's "Easy Street," and of course, nme ~ t ~me omorrow:, 
11?-anaged to. •.nsull !~e play wtth 
vtbrantly ~rttstJc qua~ttaes .. 
. The maJor flaw wath thts produc­non was an obvious refusal to gear the play to the theatre proper. For those unaccustomed with the Shubert ~eatre, the seating arrangement nses from main l~vel to a second balcony, from whtch the audience views the stage from a near forty-five degree angle. Sitting at the furthest seat from the stage, next to a few w:inged harp players, this writer was dtsmayed that the Annie crew for~ot · about these uppermost tiers, playmg only to the $22.50 orchestra seats below· 
Annie's commercial success lies not in its artistic inventiveness, but in the ingenuity with which it communi­cates an endearing optimism to the audience, especially in the last scenes when the threads of the production are tied together into an unextricable whole. By the finish, the audience is totally involved with the play, and carry the exuberance of the cast out with them. The smiles on the bus I notices as we were returning home attest to $at experience. 
However, if you are looking for originality, don't see Annie. If you are looking for a glimpse at the human condition, don't see AnnU.. If you are looking for an artistic masterpiece, don't see AnnU.. For Annie 1s none of these. Annie is just Ann1e. take it for what it's wonh. 
P.S. Winding our way through 

Doug Kreitzberg 
Chicago on our return home, several 
students who were still warmed after 
seeing Anme, waved at a boy on a 
streetcorner. Seeing a busload of 
waving hands, the boy nonchalantly 
gave them the finger. Ah, how the 
magic of the theatre slides off the 
hard-surfaced reality outside the ·ticket-booth! 
----~-------­
PL~~!~~LI~I 
l 





-----­ 
~~....---­ 
,  The Observer  Friday~ October 19, 1979-page 18  

I 
~ 
l 
~ 
t 
)' 1 ~ 
~ 
' 
~ ·~ 
' 
{ 
1 
! 
? 
1 
\ 
\ 
{ 
{ 
f. 
\ 
{ 
'! 
! 
~ ~ 
~ 
•'
~ 
l
i 
) 
~ 
j 
) 
J 
I 
pI 
I 
/. 
~ 
! 
1 
~ ~ 
II 
~ 
i; 
\1 
!
I, 
' 
l 
! 
j 
l 
TOWN & COUNTRY LIQUORS HAS. THE BEST DEALS 
r~~~I~N~TOWN 
~\es' 
•'''Jo\l.t '9~ ~~~ 

\O( 

Case of OLD MILWAUKEE in Quarts 
$5.90
Case 12 oz. PABST BLUE RIBBON 
5.69
Case 12 oz. MILLER CANS 
6.99
Case 12 oz. RED• WHITE• & BLUE 
4.99
CANS 
6.59
Case 12 oz. STROHS CANS 
3.99
QUART OF VODKA 
7.98
HALF GALLON OF VODKA 
4.99
QUART OF WHISKEY 
WE HAVE ONE OF THE AREA'S LARGEST SELECTIONS OF WINE. WE ALSO STOCK KEGS. 
10% off all beer, wine & liquor 
(except above specials) 

in all 4 of our convenient locations: 
'Town and Country Plaza 175112th St., Mishawaka River Park", 2411 Mishawaka Ave. Southland, 4411 Ironwood Rd. 

IRISH DEW 
Indiana· 
White Table Wine 

PRODUtED AND BOTTlED SY 
RAUNEA AND SONS. SOUTH SEND. INDIANA 
What's All This, Then? 
ciNEMA--oFF cAMPus 
.. .and ] uslice For All at the Forum Theatre I {times unavailable) Starring AI Pacino, John Forsythe, and Lee Strasberg. 
The Legacy at the Forum Theatre II (times unavailable) Starring Katherine Ross, Sam Elliot, and Roger Daltrey of 
"the Who". 
The Life ofBrian at the Forum Theatre III (times unavailable) 
When a Stranger Calls, at 7:JO and 9:30. River Park Theatre. 
Meteor, at 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, and 9:30. Town and Country I. Starring Sean Connery, Henry Fonda, Natalie Wood, and Trevor Howard. 
Muppet Movie at 1:30, 3:30, 
5:30, 7:30, and 9:30. Town and Country II. Cameos by: 
Madeline Kahn, Steve Martin, Bob Hope, Orson Welles, and gobs of others. 
Apocalypse Now at 1:30, 4:20, 7:10, and 10:00. Scottsdale, Theatre. Starring Marlon Brando, Robert Duvall, and Martin Sheen. 
10 at 1:25, 3:25, 5:30, 7:45, and 
10:00. University Park I. With Julie Andrews, Dudley Moore, and Bo Derek. 
North Dallas Forty at 2: 15, 4:50, 7:25, and 9:40. University Park II. Starring Nick Nolte, Mac Davis, and Charles Durning. 
Avalanche Express at 2:15, 
4:45, 7:10 and 9:40. University 
Park III. Starring Lee Marvin 
--1 ':" L-;-,i
eimi rtouen ~naw. 
PERFORMANCE--ON 
CAMPUS 
Friday, October 19 at 8:00. ACC. The rock group Kansas entertains at Notre Dame. 
Sunday, October 21 at 8:00, organ concert. Sacred Heart Church. 
PERFORMANCE--OFF 
CAMPUS 
Friday and Saturday, October 19 & 20. "Da" at 8:30 in the Morris Civic Auditorium. Hugh Leonard's successful Broadway play about a lovable but curmudgeonly Irishman. 
TELEVISION--PBS (channel 34) 
Sunday, October 21 at 8:00. 
Romeo and juliet 
NER &SO 
is afalllily owaed wiwJ elicited to ~ag fiae table wiae. 
Fo.WbyJiata.r (Notre Dme. class ef '64) located 

--·---. --. ·-·-· ....
-~~-­
-· ___.. _____ -·--·--·-­
--~ ~-.._ ~--"=. -­

Gerard Curtin 

f~. 
Spakespeare'~~tragedy of young ~ednesday, Octobc;r ~4 at 7:00, lovers amidst the feuding of The Sorrow~ of Gm the first 
. . . . . of three ongmal teleplays
thetr famthes. Wtth Patnck adapted from the short stories 
Ryecart  as  Romeo,  Rebecca  of John  Cheever.  With  
Saire  as Juliet,  and Sir John  Edward  Hermann  and  
Gielgud as Chorus.  Sigourney Weaver.  

The Daily Crossword 
1 

1  ACROSS Europe's climbing  24 25  Small dog City on the South  42 44 45  Pennant Like leaves Blue Eagle  
spot  Platte  letters  
5 Lots 10 Seafood  28  River Having a  46 47  Melody Site of the  
item  tether  Taft Museum  
14  Stead  33 Greek  54  Peek·­ 
15  Fortune­ classic  55  Kind of  
telling  34  Arrives  architec·  
16  card Firehouse  35 36  Gold: Sp. Placard  56  ture Actual  
need 17 USSR sea 18 Speak one's  37 38  Mystical sayings Twofold  58 59  Rise high Uke an old woman  
thoughts  39  Cedar  60  Rowers'  
19 20  Busy bugs Site of Emory U.  40  Rapids college Great Lake  61 62  aids Tennis name Pries  
23  Sherbets  41  A Della  63  Tree home  
DOWN  
1  In the man·  
ner of  
2  Roman money  
3  Fuel  
4  Gilbert's  
partner  
5  Pit remover  
6  Navy men:  
abbr.  
7  Diva's song  
8  Ding­ - 
9  Spires  
10  Fee  
11  Huey  


© 1979 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. All Rights Reserved 
12 Wine-making city 
I 
13 Arizona city 21 Did well 
in golf 22 Ins and­25 Records 26 Novelist 

George 27 African 
river 28 Respect 29 Prayer word 30 French city 31 Rub out 32 Meted 34 Restore to 
health 37 Balkan 38 Author Len 40 Mata­41 City in 
Nevada 43 Demand for 
more 44 States 46 Steps over 
a fence 47 House, in Spain · 48 Native 
Africans 49 Ark man 50 Tabu 51 Cuckoos 52 Dies­53 Not yours 57 Superlative 
suffix 

• 
-




• 

· The Observer • J!iday, ~ f9,..!9"FP§I ·19 -~. 


·EARLY 
. TIMES KESSLER WHISKEY WHISKfY 
Quart Quart 
~!!!!liD---~~ 
THE IlliG'S BEER VALUE 
SAMI NICES WARM OR COLD 
-~ 
; 
Black Label .......................5.59 
\ 
Sch.li.tz......"" .........:............... 5.99 Michelob............................ 7.49 . Heinekin.~················· .......14.75 
Lowenbrau........................ 9.59 

Olympia .............................6.99 
Falstaff ...............................4.99 
Weideman ......................... 5.09 .Budweiser ......................... 6.79 Busch. .................................6.79 
0 0 •••••••• 6.79 
BLACK 
VELVET 

_Quprt, Quart ·· 
$579_ 
•s•• ,. 
JAMESON 
IRISH WHISKEY 
, 750 ML :~ 



~ 

IN
, 
I I 
~ 

The Observer Friday, ·9ctober_19, --1979-page 20 
by Michael Molinelli 



by McOure/Byrnes 

ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES 
... Volley 
Molarity 

Pigeons 
[continued /rom pa$.e 21J 
teams· have complained. 
Larocca, a senior from Chicago feels that keeping club mem­bers interested is a basic prob­lem. ''Disorganization and thf lack of coaching tend to turn people off, "she says. 
coruinued dedication by dub members Larocca hopes that the sport will achieve · v~sity status soon. 
"'I just wish I could come back when it's all organized. hope I ·helped make it easier for everybody else involved and those coming up,"says Lar­occa. ' 
Maybe through the efforts of Larocca and the club members, some of the most dedicated athletes around will be recog­nized, and rewarded. 
SMC splits two 
Saint Mary's volleyball team split a tri-match with Loyola and Creighton on Wednesday in contest played at the Angela Athletic Faciluy. 
The Belles defeated Loyola 10-15, 15-10, 18-16 in the fi~t match, paced by Amy Morns, Terry Walter, Kathy Monahan, and Marrianne Viola. 
In the second match with Creighton, Saint Mary's fell 15-5, 15-9. Monahan and M~ Laughlin collied during p!iy and were unable to resume competmon. 
Today's Answers 
With-Notre Dame's athletic reputation as awesome as it has become, other schools often seek 6ut the club to, compete against. Larocca~eefs that the club's size and appearance is often an embarassment. 
The club now sports a 2-9 record, but that mark doesn't bother Larocca. 
"We've improved a lot, but 
.you cant tell all that much from our record, but we have im­proved.'' 
Larocca feels that last spring the club's participation along with the men's volleyball club in the United States Volleyball Association helped to improve the player's abilities. With 



• 
What type of control valves and pneu­matic control instrumentation do you use on an offshore drilling platform located in the North Sea? 

• 
What special material and design consid­erations are required for a 15,000 lb. control valve that will determine the electrical power output from a nuclear reactor? 


We are looking for Mechanical, Electrical, Industrial and Chemical engineers for career opportunities in Research, Design, Manufacturing Engineering, Sales Engineering, Technical Writing and Marketing ar~as. 
If you are a junior, senior or graduate student in any one of those fields, plan to attend an informal presentation (refreshments provided) scheduled for 7:00p.m., Octo­ber 31 in the Shamrock Room at the Morris Inn. Two of our college recruiters, engineers themselves, will be there to answer any questions you might have about a career at Fisher. 
Our campus interviews for fall and spring graduates will take place Nov. 1. Please see your placement office for scheduling details. 
We're Fisher Controls Company and as a world leader in the process control industry we are constantly seeking engineers to help up provide answers to our customer's needs. We have the unique advantage of being a leader in our field while still maintaining a small-company atmos­phere. And while the technical demands of an engineering career with Fisher are high, our recruiting interests emphasize a well-rounded individual with good communi­cation skills. 
Our products include·~-complete line of mechanical process control valves, regulators and instrumentation systems manufactured in 19 countries and sold through 11 0 sales offices world-wide. Our customers represent the Petroleum, Chemical, Pulp & Paper, Food Processing, Mining, Primary Metals and Power Generation industries. 
An engineer at Fisher might work with any one of the following problems our customers bring to us: 
• 
How do you control the transmission of crude oil through a pipeline spanning the north slopes and tundra of Alaska? 

• 
What considerations need to be made in successfully implementing a computer con­tro system to automatically control the deli­cate wine cooling process during fermenta­tion stage in a California winery? 




FISHER CONTROLS COMPANY 205 South Center Street Marshalltown, Iowa 50158 
An Equsl Opportunity Employer M/F 
-~--~---­

• 

The'Observer 
2 
·Volleyball looks for recognition 


When Beth Larocca came to Notre Dame her freshman year, volleyball was just an interest group. Larocca says that ever_ since then she has been "bug-Falf.·, everybody about volley-
Chiefly through Larocca's ef­forts that interest group is now 
receives just $1200 a year for 
expenses. The team does not 
have a l'aid coach so in the past 
years tt has relied on the 
volunteer efforts of Sandy Van­
steger and Mel and Sue Goral­
-skt. 
·;Most of the club's allotted 
finds this year have gone 
toward equipment. The club 
has purchased a referee's stand 
nets, game balls and many 
other necessities, but much 
money must be reserved for 
paying match officials and trav­
eling exrenses. 
''All o the other teams we 
play are varsity and it shows,'' 
says Larocca of the club's 
uniform situation' 'we look like 
we've got a pick-upgame going 
when we play.'' 
Astrid Hotvedt, co-ordinator 
of Women's Athletics at Notre 
Dame, dug-up some matching 
jerseys for the club, but Larocca 
stresses that they are hardly 
adequate. The team members 
have purchased shorts on their 
own and new jerseys are cur­
rently on order. 
"We're toying with the idea of ·designing a t-shirt to sell .. 
Anything will help us at · thts 
point,"says Larocca. The club also has future plans for a raffle 'land various other fund-raisers. 
Transportation is a major problem for volleyball. Club 
members must their own tran­sportation to away matches. In the past, the club has spent some of their funds to rent a van, but Larocca says that this is just too expensive. Another problem with van rental in the past was finding a member old enough (21) to sign the neces· sary forms. # 
The newly -purchased equip-
in its third year as a club sport. One of the many hassles Laroc­ca and the club have encoun­
. . . Tennis
tered in the fast three years is the tabling o the club's petition for varsity status. ppointed because I really didri • t 
(continued from page 24]
As a club sport volleyball play as well as I would have 



The Evansville, IN,_ native defended her title beautifully, losing only nine games en route to her second straight champ­ionship. According to Legeay, the second win was just as good as the first. 
"It's really nice to be able to say that you are a state champ­ion. I wanted to win b~dly, and I was able to because· I playea with a little more poise than I did freshman year. It would have been icing on the cake if we could have finished as team champs again, but everybody played well, and we qualified for regionals as a team, so we have nothing to be disappointed about.'' 
Actually, the Irish might have had the team title, had it not been for one of man's oldest enemies; the common cold. That dastardly evil infected Tina Stephan, the Irish sixth singles player, and forced her to settle for second place in this year's tourney. . 
''I hate to use my physical condition as an excuse for my play in the finals,'' stated the sophomore business major from Barrington, IL. Tina won her first two matches easily before succumbing to the forces of nature and Lynn Williams of DePauw. 'Tm kind of disap-1 
ment has enabled the club to host its first home matches this year. ' But, facility problems still hamper the club. Practice and match time must rotate aroune the varsity teams. An addedcomplication for the club 1is the temperature in the ACC; the hockey ice considerably cools the arena and visiting 
[conlim~etl on page 20) 
• • • Rah-rah I 
'I 

[continued from page 24] 
of life-and-death,-I'd -be scared to death--no mater which team I picked. 
There's no doubt in my mind that Notre Dame is capable of beating USC. And it's important for the players, coaches and student body to feel that way, which I do. · 
This isn't an apology, it's not that I like 

Other Good Things Sunday Beer 
Corner of Grape and Cleveland Across from University Park Mall 
I 

r---;7~~~-;;---,---;-~;;c;;;--,,~
I On any Large DEEP DISH I MAXIMUS PIZZA 1 
1 SICILIAN PIZZA 1 Over 5 feet in circumference I' ·1 I ·
1 One coupon per order I On~ coupon per pizza 
1 Expires Oct. 31,1979 • Exptres Oct. 31,1979
·---------··--·-------------­
Southern Cal--not at all. The Trojans are cock•.1, arrogant--and GOOD. 
But on Saturday, I'll be just as pumped up as everybody else. And if the Irish wtn, nobody will be happier. After all, I'm getting used to being wrong. ....: 
What I think will happen Saturday appears or page 14. . But here's what I want t< happen--Notre Dame by 51!! 
Noble Roman'S 
Pizza and 
off.ta lOX oH on 
EVERYT~ING 

with ID & coupon-: . RECORDS, TAPES; pataphetnallo . 

'
' . 
I 
! : 
. . 
Qnd SpeciQI Gu•at 
Faith Bandl 
'FRIDAY OCTOBER 19th 8 pm Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets S8.50 and S7.50 
-
On sale now at ACC Box Office and Student Union Til:ket Office 



\ 
The Observer 
I ' 

~lassifieds 
Personals 
Baldo­Congrats-you finally made it to ND Welcome and---whatever? Love ya, Baldo II and me 
attention: 
Applications are now being accepted for the MANASA Program (the Mental Health Association--college level). This organization enables you to gain exper­ience by workill{l with hospitalized psy­{ chiatric patients. If interested, please contact Chris immediately at 284-4231 or 
l I 234~1049. 
Rob, 
l 
Kansas concert, parents, good times, etc--oh yes--October break---just you and me babe! I can't wait! And thanks for t>eing just you. 
I love ya, Earthquake 
Desperately need any USC tix for family. Call Mo SMC 5701. 
As the team runs onto the field, CHANGE from BLUE to GREEN, for the IRISH MACHINE. 

ATTENTION LOGAN VOLUNTEERS 
There wi II be no Saturday Rec this week, Oct. 20 or next week, Oct. 27, due to the break. Also., bowling is canceled on Oct. 19 and Oct. 26. Everything will start up ~ain on Oct. 30 as we introduce "Britches ', who wi II be playing for our Halloween Dance. It well run from 7:30 to 
10:00 at Logan Center.Bowling will start again on Nov. 2, meet at the Library circle at 3:15. Sat. Rec will make its presence felt on Nov. 3, from 9:00 to 11:30. So, bring lots of friends to all our events and be ready to have a fantastic time. Questions or info call Ed at3479 or Walter at 3066. 
JOHN DAVENPORT* 
CONGRATULATIONS ON THE NEW PART. GOOD LUCK FINDING THAT ELUSIVE "CHARACTER"! 
mb and cc 
Janie, Happy 2o to a special sister... and friend. Mary Eileen 
How 'bout yourself? Thanks for the "personalized" personals-Julie and Karen 


FOREIGNER 
headgames 

STYX CORNERSTONE A&M 898 SERIES 
PICTURED ITEMS ONLY DIRTY WHITE BOY/SEVENTEENI'LL GET EVEN WITH YOU FOREIGNER HEAD GAME 
INCLUDES [BI 
S5.99
ATLANTIC 898 SERIES vVSND "AM 64 bids you all-bowl" with new rock and roll. 
Vote for the SCLONG Homecoming Queen of your choice at 905 Notre Dame ave. Thursday Night. 
OC Girls team 
Thanks for all the great moments and fun times. Don't han~ your heads, in our opinion, you'te all wmners. 
The Coaches 
Show us you smarts, ST. MARY'S register for College Bowl in the office of Student Activities, Le Mans. Deadline is Friday, October 19th. 
Support the Knights of Columbus, sucker sale (no, we're not selling Tex). 
Buy your Porn Poms Today Green and Gold everywhere Will make USC stop and stare. 
Attention all Big Brothers and Big Sisters: Volunteers..are needed to help with our concession stand this Saturday (O.S.C.). Please call Bob Navarr:e at 233-5298 or Steve Ledoox at 3276. Thank you! 
Monotheistic DOCTRINE of Reincarna­tion in the torah, the Prophets, and the Gospels. Write: The Truth of Islam, P.O. Box 4491, South Bend, Indiana 46624. 
Julia T., I hope you have a great vacation.
Bob .,. 
Staying here for Break? Don't starve In your rooms, get out to Badin Food Sales, open from 11 am to 1 pm all next week. 
HAPPY  18thBIRTHOAY  PATTY  
ANTOON  
YOU  CAN  WISH  PATT 1  HAPPY  
BIRTHDAY AT 5121.  

Micky, You owe me exactly 97 X's and O's. Welcome to NO lover. Signed, Lucky 
©Tomorrow is Flossie's (alias Sue Callahan) Birthday! Collect your Birthday kisses at 216 Lewis Hall. 
D.P.­Happy 19th to the best roommate ever! Enjoy breakl Love, B.A. 
BOB DYLAN 
SLOW TRAIN COMING 
including: Gotta Serve Somebody VVhenYouGonna •• ~··~~~--~------------------­
Cheap Trick Dream Police 
including: Dream Police· Way 01 The World Voices /Gonna Raise Hell' Need Your Love 
CHEAP TRICK DREAM POLICE 
Stereo LP 
EPIC 898 SERIES 
FLEETWOOD MAC
Tusk 


FLEETWOODMACr---------------------~ 


All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. Thl Obllmr office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday,10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 
Needed: GA South Carolina tickets. Call 1851. 
Happy Birthday Timbo! 
EnJOY your legality while you can! Sko 
Debra Ann, I love your sweet little gluteus maximus. Welcome back, Fox. James 
Hey Brendatha Lynn, Put the ND-SMC chicks to shame my
fox--' Rick 
Carey Louise: 
Welcome back to your favorite Indiana pit. It's great to have you back. Love youmuch, 
YOUR fan 

Tim McCoy, 
Greetings! We finally get to meet the lucky guy. Have agreat time while you'rehere. 
Your NO friends 

Go Green Green Green Machine USC Pep Rally's Stepan and Sarin wear green and get green 
From WSND AM64 
ND Soccer Team: Good luck against Michigan State. We'll t>e right BEHIND you. You know who we are... Your 41oyal fans 
50 Cents for a Thousand Licks 
STRIP DICTIONARY at 601 N. Hill. Contact Huggy for info. 
cindy, 

Have a good trip. Stay away from the cliffs at night! Love,A.S.A. 
TIM-Have a Happy Eighteenth Birthday-you hoosier!! · 
Shawn 

Kathy Peartree, 
Welcome Back. I hope you enjoy your weekend. Believe me, it should be memorable. 
Love ya, Lizzy 

There once was a girl from Pittsburgh, PA, Oct. 22 is her birthday. And now in this State She's no longer Jail Bait. So give her a call and say... "Let's Mate!!" Happy Birthday Mary Beth!! (SMC) 5145. 
M. Cochoix, Person-to-person calls to Florida always 
did cost a lot...advantage yours. LOB 
Lynn, Happy 18th Birthday (it's a little early). Hope you like the concert. Mike 
• 
I know it's dumb, but I need one USC student ticket. Tom K. 6937. Name your price. 
Go Zoo Two! 
Here's hoping that everyone on 2nd Regina North has agreat weekend and an even greater break!! Love, one of your fellow inmates. 
For my drinking partner-­
The weekend has begun. I know you're ready & willing, but are you able? Remember, we're both in the same boat! Love, Your Buddy 
212 R.N. 

To Mar and Bill-
Since I can't be there to wish you well in perso~ and I'm too broke to get you anythmg, I thought you'd like to see your names in print. Happy Annivenary!! 
Love ya both lots! 
Patty 


.. 
/ 

~~~--------~~-~-~·.. ~--~--··-~------~··--~----···-----------------------------·..~ 

The Observer 

-
. ­

.s 
All classified ads must be recetved by 5:00p.m. , two ~ IJI"•Ilf to the issue In which the ad Is run. Tilt Ollllrwr office wll accept classlfleds Monday thro~h Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classlfleds must be pre-pad, either in person or through the mall. 
. 

2Kansas and 2Homecoming tix. Cheap! For Sale: WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR SIX GA A change from Blue to Green, as has Anyone interested In running a M1ke 232-5593. Remainder of Student Football package. TICKETS TO SOUTH CAROUNA* never been seen is coming. Republican Presidential campaiC for the Best offer by 5 p.m. Friday. Call1822. PHONE 3454. '~ convention, call Kevin 11 . Wanted to trade -I have a student ticket Buy your Pom Poms today ,package for sale. This includes the USC I need two GA tickets for Navy game. Call Poor Poor Pitiful Me! People arriving this with Pom ~oms to lead the fight. we will Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 2n-o296. and Clemson games. Will trade for 2 Michelle 291-1598. weekend with no USC tickets. Please help stop~.Q~~~White. 
GA's for any home game but Navy-call this hapless host. GA's preferred. Call Used Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 8221' Needed: Two pairs of Southern Cal GA's Brien 3062. To Kathy (Oh, sorry) Katherine (as in 9-7. Ralph Casperson, 1303 Buchanan Will pay $100 a pair. Call 8203 or 7018. Ross) Kuna, Rd. Niles. 683-2888. Need 3 Navy tickets. Call 256-5742 What's shakln? Here's to tons of fun, a 
evenings. Please. fab time, birthday kisses, and 21 flaming
Wanted
Attention: Knights and Ladies of Needed: Two r;tn of Southern Call shots!! Margarita's and Michelobs for-Columbus. WE NEED YOU--for steak need to near GA's. Will pay 1110 1 pair. Call 8203 or Need GA tickets to USC, Clemson. Mike ever! Love ( it's not that serious),
I a ride anywhere
sales and lollipop sales. We'll be running 7018. 1384. Your fans campus-wide
Poughkeepsie. N.Y or Danbury. Conn.
four lines at steak sales and need P.S. Happy 21st!!!
for Oct. break. Will share driving and
members to help out. Remember all Need Southern Call tickets. Will pay top Navy, Need Student and/or GA Navy tlx.
1expenses. Please call 3501.
proceeds go to Corvilla. Also we need dollar. Call Joe after 10. 233-6024. Call Paul 263-6313. Notre Dame lollipops? I thought l's seen salespeople for "Lick U.S.C." lollipops. everything!
Need nde to Chicago (O'Hare) any time 
Wanted: GA tickets for any home games.
Proceeds for this event are going to after USC game on Oct. 20. Will pay all Grandparents last pi~IM.'a.Qt to the -. ­
• ' ! 
numerous other charities and organiza-Must be two or more together. Call Dome. Need Southern tiCiits badly. 
I
tolls. Rod 8333. • I editorial Clrtoonlst Is sought by the
lions in the South Bend area. Lend a Danny-Joe, 287-3311. Call Kevin 3528. ~ 
--Observer to prepare utlrtcal artwort on
hand and help raise money for those less Help. Need one or two rides to St.
than Be the Need 4 So. Carolina GA tix. Call Mike controvenlal Notre Dame-Saint Ma~·s
fortunate ourselves. at Need GA tickets for Southern ~me.
Bonaventure for October break. Call Jean 1034. subjects. Paid position. Call Ann .,
council at 8:00 a.m. Saturday so we can Will pay big bucks. Call Jane 2.
at 8075. Editorial editor, 8661 or m-4976.
get started And don't worry, you won't miss kickoff' Desperate!~ need 1,2,3,4 USC tix. Money Necessary: 2 South Clrollna GA's,
Need ride to Twin Cities area over break. WSND "AM 64 bids you all-bowl" with
no object. rian 1644. separate seats okay. Jim 6802. ­
. Call Paul 8269. 
new rock and roll.

Mar-Main Pharmacy at 426 N Michigan 
I
) 
cashes personal checks for students with Must have 1 or 2 USC tix. May be either Need 2 GA tickets to USC game. call 
l l
Need ride to Indy Immediately after t.:SC Buy your Pom Poms today-One flick of
an ND/SMC ID. GA or student. Call Tom 1222. John 1851.
game. Tome 7912. the wrist will create an evil hiss. Will do typing. Neat -Accurate. Call: Need two Navy GA tix. Call Mike 8382. I need one GA ticket for South Carolina.
Minnesota need nde to Twin Cities area. 
Make suckers out of Southern Cal.

287·5162. Will pay good bucks. Call 3050.
Can leave Fri.Sat.. or Sun Call Tim 4339 
Please,
Will share driving and gas. A massive change is coming.
I need 2 USC GA tlx for my parents.
Alterations for men and women's clo Two USC-GA tickets for sale. Best offer. 
~ 
thing in my home. 255-6275. Please help. Call 8323, Jeff. Call Melissa. 4-1-4561.
Cocaine courrier needs driver for run to Want to go to the Kansas concert with a NO from Wash. D.C. after break. Contact ~sh-darned great guy? Call Bob (BC( at
Top dollar for USC tickets (GA). Please 
Give away Grand Old Opry tix InRobert 1729. 

1
call Tim 288-2465. exchange will buy any number of GA 24. 
Tenn. evenings

Lost&Found 35tix. Call collect.
Need ride to 0·Hare Airport after USC or Buy your Pom Poms today-­
Need 2Student or GA Navy tix. Call Julie 1-615-2-3669. 
J
early morning Sat. Oct.20. Please call 4084 (SMC). Ferguson will be gaining 
1Lost: one white raincoat. Found: one tan Beth 6785. As our colors are waving
Need 1USC student or GA football ticket.

raincoat after the Dillon Formai.Let's Need tickets for South Des-Carolina. Call lggy 3588.
Need ride home from Des Moines. Iowa Happy Birthday, Tom. Looking forward
exchange. Call Mary Ellen 2184. perately --Call Tom 234-3:301.
after Oct. break Oct. 25-28. Will share to giving you your present; ~ou're no
Need several GA USC tixs. Please call

Found: Cross Pen by Madeleva. Call to driving and expenses. Brian 3038. Need two GA tickets for S. Carolina. Call lon~er jailbait! Love. Lisa from niverslty
232-7314. Thanks.

identify. Nancy 4376. 1338. of londa. 
-I'm homesick for the land of 10,000 lakes! 
Help! I need two Navy tix soon. CallNeed ride to Minnesota for Oct. break.

Found: Man's watch between Grace and TRADE: 2 USC GA's for Tenn GA's. (I . Buy your Porn Poms today-­
anytime of the day 1209.

the Library. Found Thursday night. Call Will share expenses and driving. Call need 4}. Paul 8330. A green and gold wave 
Zelda Ray at 8135. Will wash USC away
1771 to identify. 
Help! Need 2 GA USC tix. Sheila 7924.

Need ride to Massachusetts for break. Looking for two GA'a to the USC game.Lost: One beige V-neck sweater with Will share usual. Call 1272. Will pay good money! Help me and Lick USC!
Need several GA tickets for Clemson,

l~ls. If found, please call Jima at you're "the max" 
Tennessee games. Call 1771. You name

2 -3997 before 8:30a.m. Need a ride back frorn Des Moines, Iowa Call Art 1431. Jeff & Tom & tim,
the price, I'll pay if right. 

"Late Happy hours are whenever you
area after fall break. Call Steve at 1062. Found: One beige sweater without lapels Dnperately need 1-4 USC tlx for m" ­
want them.
Wanted:

I• low about a trade?). Call Jim at Still need ride to Omaha after USC. call family. GA or student. Please call 811 ~ &T Girls
3 or 4 GA tickets to any football game.

277-3007 before 8:30a.m. Colm -8736. 3342. .S. Julie says she can forgive and forget
I Will pay good money!! 41-5195. •
Lost: Tan and brown glasses case with New Jersey Club Happy Hour at Gooses. Help! I need 2 GA tickets for So. Going, Going, Gone!!
Instant Cash for USC tix. Call John at 

contact case and contacts within, call Fri .. Oct. 19th. lOam -6 pm. All are Carolina. Will pay bucks. Susie 4-1-5123. If these 3 words sound good to you and
1947, 1003, or 3087.

4-4813. welcome' you are a wild and crazy ~y, then arP,IY to be Auctioneer for the S Cclass o 82
Need 2 GAS. Carolina tix. Call Jim 1195. 
Desperately need 5 GA tix to Tennessee!

Lost: Siver cross on chain, Friday at the Needed: Room in car trunk for mise Happy Hayride and Box Dinner. Apply by
Call John at 3656.

Rock. If found, PLEASE call1609. Thank items going back to campus from N.J Selling Student Season ticket for last 3 phoning Leslie (4349) no later than Wed. you. Willing to pay$$. Call Don 6756. games. Call 232-5345. Oct. 31.
Going home for October break? Sell your USC tix to 2 SMC ladles. We need 2 GA

Lost: Green Rugby jacket with keys on Buspersons and dishpersons needed Need 3 GA USC tickets. Call Jeff 1462. HAVE A NICE BREAK LISA* KATHY*
tix and 2Student tix. Willing to pay your

penknife. Reward. Brian 289-9697. male or female Apply at The Carriag( AND JEANNINE.
price. Call 4349 (SMC) Cathy or Leslie. 

Mike, Have lots of fun in Acupolco. You
House. 24460 Adams Road. 272-9220. I need 3 tickets for Navy. Call Sandy at Lost: Scrimshaw pendent with picture of (SMC) 4950. too. John, have a nice break at home.
My cousins from India and their water

sailboat engraved, approx. w· diameter. Will pay cash for photographs of openin[ Trlsh
buffaloes are comin~ for the South

Was a gift and it means much more to me school mass. Oct. 9. t979. Call6385 M-F Need 2 GA tix to So. Carolina. Call Rene. 
Carolina ~ame. Help! need GA tix. Call

than it does to you.$$ Reward$$ offered. 8:30-4:30. Needed for publication. SMC 4006. ATTENTION SENIOR TRIPPERS: 
./ KD at 23 -5568.
John 3277. Don't fass up the uni%ue opportunity to meet HE SEX GOD ESS MICHELLE
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year round. Need two GA's to South Carolina. Fiance 
I need 3 or 4 Clemson tickets. Call Dave STEIL as she makes her birthday

Europe, S. America. Australia. Asia. Etc., and daughter coming. Desperate. Stoney
Lost: One "Richard Flahaven~· at 8782 or Bill at 8444. 
appearance, Oct. 24th on the Acapulco 
·"" ; All Fields. $55-$1.200 monthly Expen-.. 8391. ses paid. Sightseeing. Free info-WritiJ4' ' Bay. Look for the pink robe hiding a
Need 2-4 South Carol!~ il'ate~. GA. Call

Mar. tellophane bikini. Michelle will be
Lost: Ladies wristwatch, silver with a IJC. Box .52-14. Corona Del Ca. Need 2 GA's for South Carolina. Enjoy 
1895. 

serVinQ Greek pastries and dancing to
blue face, lost while running Sunday 92625. break, sell me tickets. Steve 3276. 
Hava 'Nagila. Please brinR Tequilaaround St. Joe lake. Reward. Call 8702. 
Attention-anyone3oing home before the

GAs. Student Tix. Tunnelling Equip-Sunrises 'in lieu of'flowers. emember
USC game--1 nee 1 student ticket. Call 

Michelle, pretend It's someone else's
Found: Men's Tl digital watch--Call8260. ment .. If you have anything that will get 
Need 2 -GA's for Navy game. Call Brian John 1209. beach. · •
4 people into the USC game. I'll buy it. 
Lost: Small brown dog with black Call James (277-2652) 3168. Love, Windsong man & the Ga;; ,J.
Need several GA South Carolina tickets. 

markings on back. Answers to name of -'L 
Please call 232-7314. Thanks! 

'Crash'. If found contact 232-5471. Need ride to Denver for break. Dave 0. Ned needs 3-5 GA tickets for South Pittsburgh club there will not be a bus 1502. Carolina. Will pay good$$. Call 8897. leavin~ Saturday night. All buses will
Need several Navy GA tickets. Please call 

leave D/SMC on Sunday, Oct. 21, 9:00Lost: Unlined brown tweed blazer at 232-7314.
In need of 6GA &4student tix to So. Cal. AM.
Gooses. To the girl who called and found Need ride to Tennessee game Nov. 9. 
Call Pennee SMC 4963.
it, please call again! Thank-you! Kathy Will share. expenses. Call Mary Ann Need 2to 4 USC GA tickets. I'll even pay 
How can I lick that Whole thing?

2145. 4+4347 Will sell my student tickets to the best money for them! Call Dan or Dean at 
3334.

offer. Call1223, ask for Charles. Buy your Porn Poms today. To Trounce USC create a pom porn sea.
Needed: 1Student USC ticket. Please call

For Sale: 4 GA tix for USC. (Also, Red
For Sale For Rent 
Kit 4762 (SMC).

East parking sticker). Please call Mary at Live ... From St. Mary's... this is College . fhree American Airline Coupons: $30.00 Pay No Money during October, $7i50i SMC 4238. Highest offer. Individual and Team registration contin-
I need 2 Navy GA's before break. Call me

each. Call 256-1729 month afterwards---Multiple vacancies ues in the Office of Student Activities,
soon please. thanks. 1209.

ND Apartments--Call Jamie 283-1187. Wanted: 2 GA USC tickets. Call Chuck LeMans through Friday, Oct. 19th. 
232-5594.
For Sale 1 student ticket pak (includes Contestants, judges, moderators time
Need two GA tickets for Navy game.Call

USC). Call Mark at 6435 before 5 pm. Live Oct. Free. For Rent: Campus View and score keepers needed.
Ann 2n-4976.

Apt. for rent w/3 male students. $100/ Need 4 GA South Carolina tickets. 'Call Chuckles at 3064.
New clothing. Salesman samples. month. All utilities included. Call Brian All
Notice to the ND-SMC community:Excellent quality. Great Bargains. Sat. 277-5072. classifieds are to purchased two days
2'GA's and many student tlx needed for
and Mon. 17819 Cleveland Rd. 
Personals

Sun. before you want them to appear. (ex.,if
For Rent: USC. Money absolutely no object. Pete
272-2942. you want the add to appear on Friday,
8865.
wanted sublet
Female roommate to you must piace it no later than Wed.)
United Airlines half fare coupons $40.00. Campus View Apt. Live with 3other girls. The Irish Army presents Sit. Menu for Thank you. 
• 

. Call 272-2325. $100/month. all utilities included. Call $25.00 IRISH STEW. "2200 lbs ground Trotan 
.

Kathy 283-1320. Nedd ND-UT football tickets, Nov. 10 horsemeat, sprinkled over NO Gridiron. Terry M.­
Will pay $25 per. Send tickets C.O.D. to
2 united Air! ines Coupons for sale. call Add 1 dash of Vegas, IICid with UICh, I want my bucks for the bucs! ! World
Kurt, 1025 Sunset Dr. Chattanooga, an
Barry (after 11 :00) at 2752 and flavored with Foley lor Irish Champ Pirates are #1-don't forget It!
Tenn. 373n. 
VICTORYI! Lisa (Goose)

Tickets
Will sell below
2 Kansas tix for sale. 
Wanted: 1 or 2 GA's to Navy. Call Bill 
, cost' Call Kevin at 1608. Schlong presents Masslvt TaiiJaterl Annabel! Pulte,
1108. 
Saturday at 9:00 am across from enlor Hope your birthday is fantastic!! Have a 1972 Chev. Kingswood Estate Wagon. L!~Q 11,~. Best glfm: Bl~ 23J.«l68, Bar. Look for tht flagI great October break. See ya in Boston.
Need 6 GA tix to South Carolina. Will
High mileage; $350.00. 8982, or 8986. Love, Keith
I'm hungry, but mr rarents can't take me pay. Call Herman 233-4972. 
Get with SCLONGI Go lrtshl 

to dinner unless ave two NAVY GATwo Kansas tickets for sale-both $10­ro my "tape connection"ln 615 Fianner­
tickets. Call Sue 8884. SOUTH CAROUNA
Tony 233-6208. Watch out for SCLONGI My ankle~ love what you've done for
WILL TRADE 2 STUDENT FOR 1 GA 
;hem.

I want tickets for the USC and Navy AND BUY ANOTHER GA FOR MEGA
By alumnus-2 Bedroom house, 1136 .E A homecomlns,rorada? Yau'"' aot to bt Thanks muchly,
games--Premium. Tom McAuley (312) BUCKS. WILL WORK ANY DEAL TO
Sorin (near Corby's). Drive by. Call J1m ldddlngl SCL Gl MB
460-1177. YOUR SATISFACTION. PHONE 3454.
Licata 312-472-0879. Make offer. 
..
-



n \ 

'
I 
I 
I ' 
l 
Friday, October 19,1979-page 24 
' -~orts 

With 6-6 record 

Baseball team closes fall slate 
by Bill Marquard clearing tri,Ple by George lams. Offensively, the hits were Sports Writer But Illinots State slipped past there, but the power really was the Irish with a three-run not. "We got the bat on the ''We had a lot of ups and down outburst of their own in the ball, but unfortunately we hit it 
in our fall season this year,'' sixth, and Notre Dame's two at someone,'' conceded Kelly. ~ remarks Notre Dame baseball tallies in the bottom of that ''We struck out relatively fewi -coach Tom Kelly as he looks frame came up short as the times, which is encouraging-­
back on the last month and a Irish absorbed a 7-6 defeat. we just have to get more from half of baseball. ''A big inning here or there our hits." Yet coach Kelly's words may really made the difference this In the 12 autumn games, Irish 

i i have been something of an fall," remarks Kelly. "Overall, batter only struck out 39 times, understatement when one con­I though we ,Played well, but it just over three batters a game. siders the 5-1 start the team was those bnef lapses that hurt '')ust putting the ball in play jumped out to before dipping to us. " puts you at an advantage, 

. .,_ ' its final 6-6 autumn mark . So with the autumn season because it makes your opponent 
''We certainly proved to our. now over, what does Kelly see work for the out." selves and to other that we can as the weak points that will With three months off now play with the good teams, but need work this winter? until the winter workout begin, we also found that concentra­''We'll be pushing hard about Kelly closes the scorebook on tion was a key factor when we execution," Kelly says. "You another fall season with mixed play those good teams.'' take a calculated risk in the fall emonons. 
"You can't let up for a minute because you cannot place ade­''Naturally I like to finish 
i ' 

in this game," adds the fifth­quate emphasis on all aspects strong, but our recentperform­year head coach. of the game because practice ance mdicates that our players One of those good teams was time is so short." are going to have to make up undoubtedly Illinois State, "But I can see several hl'ight their minds to work hard to whom the Irish dropped a spots. This fall definitely achieve that success. We have twinbill to on Sunday afternoon demonstrated that you are as a lot of preparation physically at Jake Kline Field. good as your pitching, and I see and mentally before next 
.

The Irish jumped out to an the core of a good staff if spnng. " early 1-0 lead in the flist inning everyone can stay healthy.'' of the opener. But five quick Illinois State runs in the top of th second frame sealed Notre 
Tennis team takes 2nd
Dame's fate as the 5-1 score stood at the end of the contest. In this nightcap, the Irish 

at Indiana tournament 
fought back from an early 3-0 

The Notr_e Dame stands should b_e ''rocking'' this weekend, deficit to take a 4-3 lead in the by Mark Hannuksela who was seeded second in the as the Insh prepare to face USC zn the most important game Sports W n·ter tournament, won her first two
fourth inning on a Greg Rodems 

ofthe football season. For detat1s see pages 11-14. matches easily, and then faced
sacrifice fly and a bases-

On the strength of impressive top-seeded Karen TurRian from singles performances, the DePauw. The two split the first Notre Dame women's tennis pair of sets, as as they started grabbed a second place finish in the third, they drew a crowd.
A closet rah-rah goes public 
last weekend's state tourna­''By the time we started the ment. DePauw, the only team third set,'' Shukis relate-I,
There he goes again, they're saying, picking 
the Irish lost to during the ''everybody else on the ream USC to beat Notre Dame just to attract attention. regular season, topped Notre had finished--we were the onlySorry, Folks, but that kmd of attention I can do Dame by three points. ones left on the courts. That
Craig
without. I got more than enough of it when the Two newcomers and two was one of the things that Irish beat Michigan and Michigan State. Chval veterans on the Irish line-up helped me through the third There is one thing, though, that people don't 
S/10t1S Writer were the biggest stories of the set. We are such a close team~ 
seem to understand. The predictions which weekend. Freshman Linda and having everybody out there appear in the paper are what the writers think_ put a permanent end to it, I surely wouldn't be Hoyer knocked off the top two cheering for me really helped
will happen, not what they want to happen. Or very optimistic about my chances to start seeds in the second smgles me to win that set.'' at least that's the way it's supposed to work. collecting social benefits. But that doesn't division en route to a state Veterans also played an in­
Frank LaGrotta, who should be an expert on the necessanly mean that I'm tired of living. championship in that bracket. strumental role in the Irish matter, has accussed me of being a rah-rah. I guess I just value my objectivity, and once in a The Port Clinton, OH, native showing, and two key figuresAnd I have to admit that he is right. When I sat while, I may even bend over backward a little bit was almost speechless about from last year's tournament, at the typewriter, wondering how I was g~, to to hold on to it. But it's remarkably difficult to her performance. sophomores Mary Legeay and explain myself, the band marches past or­maintain objectivity when you are emotionally "I don't know what to say, Tina Stephan, were in the 
tune, playing the Victory March. After the involved. being state champ is just a lineup for coach J ory Segalgoose bumps went away, I began to wonder how It's a little easier to look at it this way: If there gteat feeling. I went into the again this year.I could pick against Notre Dame. is a game where my emotions might get in the tournament knowing that I had Legeay, who played in the fifth 
Think back to the last time you didn't study for way, I ask myself how I would pick the game if to play well, and after I got by singles position, was the top 
a test (you throats will have to bear with me). my life depended on the outcome. By thts stage the top seed (in the first round) seed in this year's tournament When you walked into the classroom, you of the season, though, I would have nothing to it was pretty much all downhill on the basis of her play during 
probably thought you wouldn't do very well. But worry about. I would have died three times from there." the year, and her championship
that certainly doesn't mean you didn't want to already. Another newcomer to the in last year's state finals. (Shedo well. If picking Saturday's game really was a matter Notre Dame lineup, sophomore was ftfth singles champion.)If some member of the football team got tired of Carol Shukis, played in the me · · Notre Dame to lose, and decided to [continued on page 21) fourth · . Shukis rcontinueti on page 21) 
i-
I~------------------~I
.1 Name I 
I I
1 Address 1 
I Cit_v. I
1 
I 
State~ II Notre Dame, IN 46556 
ZIP__________ 1All Subscriptions must be paid in advance. 
------------------..1
Have The Observer 1r;ailed to _your home each da_y. 
. -----------~--·--~·---~~------------~~­





