. jazz Festival -page 8 .. 
' ' 

VOL. XIII, NO. 112 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 1979
................. 
Students use Tanzanian troops botnb hoax to overrun Kampala 
NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) · dusk to positions around
avoid exa01 
Tanzanian and Ugandan-exile Kampala's clock tower, a land­infantrymen swept into the mark at a road junction a
hy Michael Lewis 
downtown area of the Ugandan quarter mile from the city
Exec. News Editor 
capital of Kampala last ni~ht, center.
. 
sending President Idi Amm' s It appeared to witnesses thatSeveral Notre Dame students cadre of Libyan soldiers fleeing Amin had lost control of thewho perpetrated a bomb hoax into the countryside, residents capital on the same day hisyesterday in O'Shaughnessy reponed. 
enemies launched what theyHall face "a very strong possi­Exile sources said the gov­said would be a final assault onbility of dismissal from the ernment ofAmin, who has been Kampala.
University,'' according to Dean accused of murdering tens of
of Students]ames Roemer. Witnesses and sources in Dar
thousands of his countrymen,
"We know who did it," Es Salaam, the Tanzanian capi­
could fall in a few days or a few
Roemer said, adding that he tal, reported limited resistance
hours.
would reach a final decision from the few Amin units still
Amin's regular army had
about the students' punishment holding out.
already disintegrated, the exile
"in the next couple of days." Before dawn, the Tanzanians 
sources said, claiming the
He declined comment on how began shelling the national
troops sent by Libyan leader
the students' ploy was uncover­military police headquarters at
Col. Noammar Khaddafy to aid
ed. Makin dye, three mil~s ~o~tth of
Amin, a fellow Moslem, were
''Last night several students Kampala, where former in­
the only force preserving
were getting ready for an exam, mates say thousands of Amin's
Amin's eight-year reign. 
and they decided they weren't opponents were tortured and
Amin' s whereabouts were
readr.,'' Roemer said. The killed during the past eight
not publicly known. On Tues­
students then put together a years. Sources in Dar Es
day, he visited towns in areas 
carton that looked like a bomb Salaam said the hillside com­
he still controls in eastern
and called the University tele­plex of low buildings was
Uganda, jovially greeting sol­
phone operator, saying there overrun at midday.
diers and civilians in an appar­
was a bomb in O'Shaughessy. ent morale-building tour. They said the road east to Roemer and the Security De·· The Tanzanian-Ugandan war Jinja, Uganda's second largestpartment were notified immed­began last October when Amin city, was deliberately left open t Iately. -who seized power in 1971 in a allow the Libyans an escape
The "bomb" was supposed coup against President Milton route. 
to go off at 9 a.m., the time of Obote-sent troops into Tanzan­Observers said the Tanzanian the students' exam. The build­ia to annex land he said plan appeared to be to driveing was evacuated while Secur­belonged to Uganda. Amin' s forces into easternity officers checked for the 
A Kampala resident reached Uganda, where they would by telephone last night said he have no war out except to cross
[continued on page 13] 
saw the invaders running at into neutra Kenya. 



Reactor conditions stabilize at Three Mile 
HARRISBURG, Pa (AP)­reactor into cold shutdown. latory Commission, said at a that contributed to the crisis. Roland Page, a spokesman Radiation levels dwindled to And while officials are con­briefing. The first error came when for Thornburgh, said the gov­near normal around the Three cerned about the durability of He confirmed that human valves on an emergency pump­ernor was reluctant to rescind Mile Island nuclear power plant vital instruments inside the error had contributed to the ins system -part of the reac­his advisory that pregnant yesterday, and federal officials reactor, conditions at the plant reactor accident. In Washing­tor's coolant system -were women and young children stay said they were considering a remain "stable," Harold ton, NRC officials described closed, when they should have at least five miles from the proposal to take the disabled Denton, of the Nuclear Regu-three separate human errors been open. Later, an operator plant because shutdown pro­
turned off the plant's main cedures may involve more emergency core cooling system "controlled releases" of radia­Slides show South Bend artists at the wrong time. Finally, four tion. 
standby water pumps were Thornburgh reaffirmed his disengaged when there was no advisory that rre~nant women

WCA stresses art appreciation 
apparent reason for them not to and pre-schoo children stay at be working .. least five miles from the plant.
~y Ellen f!uddy art student at Notre Dame, commented on the Denton said having the Civil defense officials remained Saznt i\1ary 5 Editor dramatic touch of the oils in contrast to the standby pumps disengaged was poised should an evacuationThe Women's Caucus for Art (WCA) is an softness of the pastels. Following this segment a violation of NRC regulations. still be necessary.
international organization of professional wo­was a series of water color paintings and Denton said engineers would Radiation monitoring yester­men who are interested in art. The South Bend hand-made jewelry. 
maintain the plant in its current day in the rural countrysidechapter, the first established in Indian~, Akkerman displayed some of her own works status for several days. He said surrounding the island facilitypresented a slide show yesterday for Women s which were predominantly abstract oil paint­the NRC had not yet approved a showed "most levels are slight­Opportunity Week (WOW) at Samt Mary's. ings. "My paintings are expressly devoted to proposal submitted by Babcock ly above background radia­According to Gwen Diehn, secretary for the evoke emotion,'' she noted. 
and Wilcox, the reactor's de­tion," said Ken Clark, a Nuc­South Bend organization, ''The inten.t of the Lois Crachey, a South Bend WCA chapter signer, calling for beginning lear Regulatory Commission ., 

caucus is to represent women arusts, . ~rt member, also had some of her acrylic painttngs the cold shutdown operation in spokesman.
historians museum and gallery women, cnttcs in the presentation. "My works center around about five days and completing In Washington, Health, Edu­and college art students on an international people, and they reflect the broad community it about five days later. cation and Welfare Secretarylevel.'' around them,'' the artist explained. 
The string of human errors Joseph Califano Jr. told aDiehn explained that the chapter's aim on a Another artist's series was composed of complicated a situation that Senate subcommittee that per­local level is "to support, educate and streng.th­monoprints in black, gray and white. The artist began with the unexplained sons within five miles of theen art appreciation. We also hope to form a. shde wrote a poem to accompany her works, ~ith the failure ofa water purifying unit. nuclear plant have received asbank ofwomen's art work that would be avtlable final line statio, "In black, gray and whae I am Darrell Eisenhut, an NRC en­much as 30 millirens since lastfor public use.'' satisfied.'' 
gineer, said mechanical and Wednesday. The averageThe featured slides represented women The last series of works were by Carol Ann design problems were major Pennsylvanian receives aboutartists, predominately from the South B~nd Carter, a Saint Mary's art professor, who contributors to the accident. 100 millirems per year from the area. Each artist's creation was accompamed commented, ''Changes in my !ife are reflected in sun and X-rays.
Despite evidence of humanby a statement expressing her opinion ~ my artwork.'' Her creations included a soft The number of cancer deathserror, NRC staff members toldtoward her art in gener~l. _The f!.rs~ group of sculpture and a multi-printed piece. 
in Pennsylvania is not expectedthe commissioners the plant'sslides was a series of sull life pamtmgs. The "Students who are Interested in any facet of to rise above normal, Califanooperators are "a well-qualifiedartist's accompanying statement was, "I see my art are encouraged to join the South Bend told the Human Resourcesgroup."
drawings as writing without words:'' chapter of WCA,' '· Diehn stated. Student fees health panel. He conceded,Oil paintings and pa~tels compnsed ~he next are $3 on the local level and $5 for national ''The threat of any immedi-­

series of works. Henm Akkerman, cha1rperson membership. Interested students contact Diehn ate catastrophe is over,'' said for the South Bend WCA chapter and a graciuate at 259-1592. Gov. Dick Thornburgh. [contz'nued on page 6] 





);00 pm, FRENCH CLUB DINNER, snack bar in smc dining hall, open to all nd-smc profs. and students· who speak french. 
6:30 pm, MEETING, off campus council, Ia fortune 0-C ROOM 
7 pm, WORKSHOP, life and career planning workshop, by paul winum, 400 ADMINISTRATION BLDG. · 
7 pm, LEC1URE, "the deformed child's right to care", by dr. eugene diamond, UB. AUD. right to life presentation 
7,9,11 pm, "jesus christ superstar" ENGR . .AUD. 
7:30pm, ART OPENING FOR ANN BUZAID AND MEG AUGH 
7:30 pm, SUAC PROGRAM, "the art of massage", WASHINGTON HAll 
~nPfERA opera workshop performances, UTILE 
Day Editor: Man'beth Moran Copy Reader: Mare •'Ex­hausted'' Ulicny Ad Layout: Matt DeSalvo Photographer: Dave Rumbach 
Last week's Paper of the Week: jim Rudd, assisted by Ro Beard and Ann Monaghan. 
The Observer ]USPS sgs 920] is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year {$10 per semester] from The Observer. P.O. box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second clus postage pJid. Notre Dame. In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 



The Observer ThurSday, April 5, 1979 -page 3 
Jameson evaluates econom.y 
by Greg Hedge Assistant Editonal Editor 

Prof. Kenneth Jameson of Notre Dame's Department of Economics is not one to rely on economic forecasts; he's skep­tical of them. But, in an interview yesterday, Professor Jameson discussed the recent increase in corporate profits and evaluated the Carter eco­nomic program; he also gave a hesitant prediction of things to come. 
Figures recentiy have been released reporting corporate profits; in the fourth quarter of 1978, profits increased 26 per­cent compared with those post­ed in the last part ~f 1977. 
''The 26 percent figure is misleading,'' says Jameson. A comparison of total profits from 1977 to 1978 shows an increase of only 15.6 percent. He leans back in his chair as he puts his hands behind his head. Natur­ally, this increase should be viewed in perspective. The professor stressed that in the early 1970s, the economy began a period of readjustment result­ing from the Nixon wage.-pncc controls and the oil price in­creases. The corporare sector continues to operate profitably in spite of these factors because it can quickly adjust to econom­ic trends by varying1 inputs of labor and other costs. 
The recent OPEC nine per­cent price increase, for exam· pie, is characteristic of the period of readjustment, and corporations will adapt to the new environment quite readily. 
!\elatedly, the ceiling on the national debt was raised Tues­day; if the nation's credit limit was not raised, the debt would have to be retired, perhaps through increased taxes or by cutting federal programs. Ul­timately, .someone would have to suffer, whether it be the taxpayers, the resulting un­employed or another group altogether. The corporate sec­tor, however, would be able to adjust to the situation relatively well. Profits are a sign of 
Prof Jameson 
corporate flexibility--especially in a rime of economiC uncertain­ty. 
The increase in corporate profits, however, indicates that the Carter wage-price controls have even less credibility than previously believed. Had the Carter program been working according to design, profits would have increased only as high as the inflation rate or nine percent. 
The Carter program, says ) ameson, is an attempt to enforce a "social compact" that would put limits on what every­one gets--for example, no more than a seven percent increase in wa~es. Unfortunately, no such soCial agreement exists. The professor points to the 3 5 percent increase demanded by the Teamsters as a prime example. The corporate sector, labor and individuals alike have problems agreeing on what each group should get. Conse­quently, the Carter program is less than effective. 
"Professor, what is your forecast of things to come?'' The office in the basement of the Library is silent. 
''Recession is much more likely." Pointing to the Team­sters and United Air strikes, as well as the energy situation, Jameson draws a rather hesi­tant conclusion. The combined problems of transportation and ener~y are particularly difficult; readJUStment in the corporate sector may translate into stable corporate profits, but it also signals unemployment and economic stagnations. A reces­sion is indeed a possibility. 




Rioting erupts in Pakistan 
RAWALPINDI, Pakistan­(AP)-Rioting and demonstra­tions eru.Pted here and in the neighbonng Indian state of Kashmir yesterday protesting the hanging of former Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. World leaders, who had tried to save him from the gallows, expressed regret and anger at the execution. 
Three persons were reported killed in the Kashmir riots. Most of Pakistan was calm, but some observers said violence could come later. 
In Washington, the State Department expressed regret over the execution. Spokesman Hodding Carter noted that President Carter had asked for mercy for Bhutto on humanitar­ian grounds. A department official said privately that the president's plea was based in parr on fears of political vio­lence after the hanging. 
The white-shrouded body of the 51-year-old Bhutto, who led Pakistan from 1971 until he was ousted in 1977 by the man who refused to commute his sen­tence, was flown by military helic0pter to his birthplace. It was buried in rhe family grave­yard . eight hours after the hangmg. 
Bhutto, convicted of ordering the murder of a political oppo­nent, was taken from his tmy death-row cell and hanged at 2 
a.m. President Mohammed Zia ul-Haq, who installed a strict Moslem penal code when he toppled Bhutto, ·refused the 

pleas  to  commute  Bhutto's  
sentence.  
Bhutto  refused  to  ask  for  

mercy, saying to do so would be 
an admission of guilt. . 

Police said that besides the three dead, seven persons were injured in the demonstrations in Kashmir, which borders Pakis­tan and has a heavy pro-Pakis­tan Moslem majority. Many· Kashmiris identtfy more with Pakistan than with India. 
Police opened fire on demon­strators who stoned the U.N. observer post in the Kashmiri city of Srmagar. Bhutto and most Kashmtris favored self­determination for Kashmir, a province claimed by both India and Pakistan. There is resent­ment in Kashmir beca-use the United Nations did not staee a 
plebescite, which Pakistan like-Iy would have won. As Pakis­tan's foreign minister in the mid 1960s, 1 Bhutto tried to get the United Nations to set up a plebescite. 

. Effigies ofZia were burned in many parts of Kashmir last night. 
In Rawalpindi, police with bamboo clubs moved into chanting groups of Bhutto S?P· porters after a prayer meetm~ for Bhutto turned into an antt­Zia demonstration. Witnesses said the crowd shouted "Shame, shame, Zia the dog" and ''Death to Zia. '' No injuries were reported. 
Smaller demonstrations w~re reported elsewhere. 
!he hanging was not unex­pected here. Zia said months ago that he would not interfere w1th the court decision. 
Bhutto was convicted · in March 1978 of ordering four security officers to murder po­litical rival Ahmed Reza Kasuri in a car ambush. Kasuri escaped but his father was killed. Bhutto's sentence was confirmed Feb. 6 by the Su­preme Court. 

Now rentingfot summet & falf Special Low Summet Iatea: 
1bedroom-J200 2 bedtoom-S240 

Centtal a it &heated pool 
Fall reservations should be made now! Only one second floor left... more on first. 
Call Gayle for new rates 272-1441 
•rhePIQce to be Off-CQmpus' 
UNITED ARTISTS 
STEREO LPS 

99
SERIES 798 
• 


~~ 

The Observer Thursday, April 5, 1979 -page 4 
Byrne's victory tnargtn• exceeds 

Daley's 
. -­

If you're planning summer study -·and live in the 
CHICAGO (AP)-The promise offresh leadership and the help of regular democrats secured a rousing victory for Mayor-elect Jane Byrne. Now come the problems and pitfalls of govern­u~g the nation's second largest Clty. 
Mrs. Byrne won an over­whelming victory Tuesday--82 percent of the vote. Her margin over Republican Wallace Johnson and Socialist Workers' candidate Andrew Pulley was bigger than any of the five victories won by the late Mayor Richard J. Daley. 
She did it by capitalizing on her experiences as both an insider and an outsider. Origin­ally a protege of Daley, she became a maverick under his successor, Michael Bilandic, then unseated Bilandic in the primary and won for her own campaign the Daley-built machine that had supported him. 
But now, if she is to keep her promises of change, she must do it in a city where insiders 
have  insulated  records  and  
decision-making  from  the  
public for decades.  

New York, New jersey, Connecticut area, there's one school 
_you should consider.-~· 
. =,.• ..• 
. . . 

!ONA. An independent four year college in Westchester County offering: 
• 
Graduate and undergraduate courses 

• 
Courses you want-in a concentrated time span 

• 
Convenience-dose to home and the City 

• 
An informal, productive atmosphere in air conditioned classrooms 


Summer Session undergraduate courses are offered Monday thru Thursday in the Arts, Business and the Sciences in day, and evening sessions. 
First Day Session-June 4th-July 13th Second Day Session-July 9th-August 10th First Evening Session-June 4th-July 6th Second Evening Session-July 9th-August 10th 
Summer Graduate courses are also offered toward an M.B.A. and an 
M.S. in Education. 
Check out lana during your spring break. The Summer Session affords you the opportunity to make-up and get a jump on your Fall programs. 
Check in by completing the coupon, or call for more information. 

• School of Arts and Sc1ence 


---------------------------------NO I 
• 
School of Business Administration 1 

• 
Division of General Studies 1 

• 
Graduate School of Business Administration I 

• 
Graduate Programs for Education 

• 
Graduate Division of Pastoral Counseling I 


I
IDept. C • 715 North Avenue • New Rochelle. NY 10801 1 
I (914) 636-2100 : 
: Name Please send 1
1
more information
IAddress about I 1city State Zip Summer Sessions 1
1
at IONA.
1Telephone I 

--------------------------------· 
Louis Massoti, who heads Mrs. Byrne's transition team, calls her answer to that chal­lenge ''organized'' change. 
"The primary thing is an administrative one," Massoti said yesterday. ''That is simply convincing the people of Chicago and the people that are going to run city government that this administration--while it will be different in many ways-·will be stable." 
Massoti said Mrs. Byrne is ready to announce appoint­ments to key departments as soon as she is inaugurated April 
16. He added that because of the way the police chief is selected, a replacement for Superintendent James O'Grady rnay take three to four months. 
Mrs. Byrne vowed during her campaign that she would re­place O'Grady and depoliticize the department. But first she must appoint a police board from whtch three nominations for superintendent emerge. Mrs. Byrne's final selection is subject to approval by the City Council. 
Throughout her campaign, Mrs. Byrne contended that the city faces a large deficit--as much as $150 million when all the bills for snow removal work this winter are paid. 
Massoti said he and financial specialists from the transition team expect to meet with Budget Director Edward Bedore and Alderman Wilson Frost, head of the council Finance Committee, to discuss the budget. 
To solve the city's newest money problems, Mrs. Byrne will have to work with the new City Council, which is strug­gling to regain power it lost when Daley dominated city government. An added compli­cation may be the election of five new independent alder­men. 
Mrs. Byrne and the council will have to draw money from city departments to meet the anticiP.ated budget deficit. And she w1l1 have to get her appoint­ments through the council. 
But, Massoti says, "There's a new game in town, and I think a lot of things will have to shake down. The City Council also received the message of an 82 percent support for Mrs. Byrne.'' 
One big problem is unem­ployment--an average 7.3 per­cent last year, 9.4 percent among blacks, 15. 5 percent among other minorities. 
Rep. Diggs accused by House ethics committee 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House e .hi.-:s committee accused Rep. Charles Diggs, who already has been convicted of fec:leral crimes, with 18 counts of viol~ting the House rules. 
The allegations filed by the committee papallel in scope the federal charges upon which Diggs was convicted in a November jury trial. 
The committee charged that the Michigan Democrat inflated the salaries of selected employ­ees on his congressional payroll in order to get kickbacks to help him pay his private debts or congressional expenses. The committee also alleged that Diggs placed employees on his congressional payroll without assigning them any duties. 
Another committee count alleges Diggs placed a woman on his congressional payroll "with knowledge that the majority of her duties would be and were for the benefit of the respondent's business, the House of Diggs Funeral Home in Detroit, MI." 
Nine _of the counts claim Diggs's actions were a misuse of his congressional payroll allowance. The other nine allege that his actions "did not reflect creditably on the House of Representatives.'' 
Diggs currently is appealing a three-year prison sentence 
Notre Dame 
after being convicted of payroll padding and of taking kickbacks from his House employees. 
Diggs said in a prepared ~tatement he. was disapp<;>inted m the committee's dectston to bring charges against him while his federal conviction is being appealed. 
He also said he was "con­cerned about what effect the extensive publicity sure to be generated by the committee deliberations could have'' on his appeal proceedings. 
The committee's decision means that Diggs now faces a House version of a ''trial'' in which evidence will be publicly presented against him and in which he will have an opportun­ity to defend himself. 
The committee will then de­cide whether to find Diggs guilty or innocent of the charges. If it decides to sustain the charges, it will recommend punishment. 
The committee itself has no power to punish. That decision Is left to the full House, which can impose punishment rang­ing from a reprimand -a verbal slap on the wrist -to expulsion from House membership. 


Counselors plan 
chorale travels workshop
l J. l• The Counseling Center, 400
to 1nutanah0 tS Administratio~ Building, will
1" sponsor a L1fe and Career 
The Notre Dame Chorale will Planning workshop which be­travel to Indianapolis this week­gins tonight ·at 7 p.m. and end where it will be featured in continues on April 12 and 19. the Annual P.ach Series. The The sessions are designed for group will perform with the students who are unsure of Indianapolis Symphony Orches­their academic or vocational tra and featured professional direction. soloists on Sunday, April 8, at 
7:30 /.m. at the Friedens The workshop will exploreUnite Church and Tuesday, resources available to ~uide April 10, at 8:00 p.m. at the students in vocational dectsions Second Presbyterian Church. through discussion, exercises The Chorale will sing Bach's -and the administration and Cantata No. 4, "Christ Lag in interpretation of a vocational Todesbanden," and Cantata interest inventory. For more No. 78, ''Jesu, Der Du Meine information, contact Paul Seele.'' The public is invited. Winumat at 1717. 


The Observer Thursday, April 5, 1979 -page ~ 

ND prof develops bio computer system 

by Laura Larimore Senior StaffReporter 

A new computerized system for identifying biological spec­imens has been developed by Notre Dame biologist Ronald Hellenthal. A replacement for the tedious guidebook method used at present, the new sys­tem is "goof-proof," faster and more accurate. No knowledge of computer language is neces­sary, as simple English words are used as commands. 
The most remarkable feature of the system is that not knowing the answer is a valid response. The computer simply asks another question, and specimen identification is not jeopardized by a possible incor­rect answer. ''Even an incom­plete or damaged specimen can be accuratel} identified,'' Hellenthal said. 
The key is not pre-program­med, but depends only on a data set, which can be custom­made by the user. The comput­er creates questions, based on previous answers, in the course of the program. In addition, the field can be limited by creation of a sub-key. 
Answers can be changed during the program run and possible errors can be caught and corrected. Commands can be issued in any order. At the end of a ~rogram, a complete identification is made, or all possibilities are outlined. 
"The system's tremendous advantage,'' Hellenthal stated, "is that it virtually insures correct identification because no guesswork is involved.'' 
SMC sponsors business 
program 
by Mary Beth Connor 
The Saint Mary's Counseling and Career Development Center (C&CDC) will sponsor a ''Business Careers for Non­Business Majors" program on Monday, April 9, from 7 to 8:30 
p.m. in Carroll Hall. 
''The program is aimed at liberal arts majors, from fresh­men to seniors, who wonder if there are jobs for them in the business world,'' according to Betsy Twitchell, assistant dir­ector of the C&CDC. 
The panel speakers for the program are professional women from the South Bend community. They include ] oan Miller, sales, Prudential Life Insurance; Pat Bishop, person­nel, Clarke Equipment; Mary Stephenson, management, L.S. Ayres, and Ann McDougal, programming, Channel 34. 
Representatives from public relations and non-profit man­agement positions have also been invited. 
Each speaker will give a short presentation on her area of work, relating it to skills learned from the study of liberal arts. A general ques­tion and answer period will follow the presentations. 
The panel will be moderated by Sr. Mary Louise Gude, assistant professor of French at Saint Mary's. 
The audience will get an opportunity to meet the repre­sentatives during a reception at the conclusion of the session. 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students are invited to attend. 
~-----­
The program was developed by Hellenthal while at the University of Minnesota. Its original purpose was to identify organisms in environmental impact statements. However, its use can be extended to identify virtually anything. 
At Notre Dame, the system is utilized most extensively in the identification of aquatic insects and algae, as a research tool and teaching aid. Hellenthal's personal research is concerned with aquatic or­ganisms as indicators of water auality. 
Publicly presented as part of the Third World Indiana Vector Control Association Conference held at Notre Dame March 21-22, the system could have definite public health applica­tion in mosquito identification. 
Three versions of Hellen thai's "Autokey Taxon­omic Identification System" have been developed for use wit IBM, Control Data and UNIVAC computers. 

; ."1;~~-­
: .... 
...· 
'· 
'" 

To get 27e off the regular price of the new ranch egg, slices of EASYRISER Sandwich, cut out coupon and Canadian bacon, and a slice of redeem at THE HUDDLE American cheese served on a plump toasted English mutrln. 
COUPON 


THE HUDDLE SNACK BAR 
Offer expires: THUR, APRIL 19 ..__. ,._...._._ -------------·-­
~==========~~================.------------------·-----------'

~ 

The Observer Thursday, April 5, 1979 -page 6 

'Lady Sings the Blues' 
with DIANA ROSS Friday and Saturday Apri16&7 
7:00 and.lO:OOpm CARROLL HALL SMC 

Sponsored by Admission $1.00 

~-~------------,



!BUlla Sh€0 l 
I I
15:t 5 mass anb suppm I 
I thiS rRJbay Ci!n)PUS I \ a.nb €v€RY ~Ribay m1n1Stry _.I
..______________......... Fox's 



DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS JE'!/ELERS SINCE -1917 Town & Country and Concord Mall, also University Park Mall 10-9 Blackmond 's, daily, 9:30-5 Special15% Discount On Merchandise To Notre Dame & St. Ma 's Students. 

oble,®
omatts Pizza 
and other 


Good Things 
Soviet photos may prove the existence of Atlantis 
CORNER OF GRAPE ROAD & CLEVELAND ACROSS FROM THE NEW UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
Call ahead for faster service or directions 

277-5300 Sunday Beer is Here! 
r-----------~--~------,
1 $1.00 off any large deep 1 II d.lSh s·lCl·1·tan p·tzza. ' II 
I one coupon per order exp 4/12/79 .II


L--------------------­



MOSCOW (AP)-Underwater 
photographs taken by a Soviet 
vessel southwest of Portugal 
appear to show "vestiges of 
walls and great stairways" 

which may prove the existence 
of the fabled lost continent of 
Atlantis, say underwater photo­
graphy experts. 

''Experts on the deciphering 
of underwater photographs saw 
the rather clear forms of a 
bridge or stone walls and 
fragments of a stronghold with 

wide stairways," said Soviet 
scientist Andrei Akensov, an 
expert on such unexplained 
maritime phenoma as the 
Bermuda Triangle. 
''All of these were covered by 
underwater plants, were ruined 
and flattened," he added. 
Alexander A. Nesterenko, director of the fleet department of the Soviet Institute of Ocean­ography, confirmed to the Associated Press that a Russian research ship had taken under­water photographs of the mysterious civilization de­scribed more than 2,000 years ago by Plato. 
But Nesterenko said he wanted to correct a report from Lisbon last week that the re­search ship Vitiaz was currently researching the site 200-300 miles southwest of the Portu­guese mainland. 
Nesterenko said that al­though Akensov, who was aboard the Vitiaz, talked about the earlier Soviet discovery at a Lisbon news conference the 
. ' 
VItiaz was engaged on other business. 
He said the eight underwater photographs were taken from a diving bell lowered earlier by the research ship Kurchatov, in a study of a submerged archi­pelago. 
Plato described Atlantis as an 
idyllic civilization that perished 
suddenly into the sea. Scholars 
have debated for centuries 
about whether Atlantis really 
existed or whether it was 
described simply as a mythical 
political ideal by Plato. 
Akensov, in a recent article said Soviet researchers had found,. ''precise~y at the spot Plato mdicated, ' a group of mountains with flat tops 100 to 200 meters below the surface of the sea. 
There have been dozens of theories and searches for the lost continen~, and the Russians are cautious in th .ir claim. 

"Yes, Soviet Clceanographers 
b l. . I.J b " 
e 1eve 1t cvlL'-' e true, because of what c;uentists know about the forc.es that cause changes in rhe earth's crust, Akensov told a news conference in Portu;al. 
He described the site simply as "west of Gibralter." Portuguese police said the re­search was taking place near the island of Madeira. 

Throating yourselfinto the grave. 
• • . Reactor 
[continued from page 1] 
however, that ''great uncertain­ties still remain about the relationship between cancer deaths and low-level radia­tion." 
Plant authorities will attempt a cold shutdown operation as soon as they are confident that cooling systems -subjected to intense levels of radiation for more than a week -are capable of handling the flush of water needed to lower the fuel core temperature. The goal is to reduce the temperature from the current 280 degrees Fahr­enheit to between 100 and 150 degrees. 
That would eliminate, once and for all, the threat of meltdown, while leaving the massive task of disposing of the damages fuel core, and recycl­ing and cleaning 250,000 gallons of radioactive water that covers the core. 
Replacing the damaged fuel core and decontaminating the reactor building could cost at least $150 million, said Robert Benero, an NRC official. He said other nuclear specialists feel it would be easier to fill the ~eactor with cement and scrap 

lt. 
"We can heave a sigh of relief,'' Thornburgh said in a television interview. "Now we must face up to the long-term consequences of this event. We have serious public health problems, environmental prob­lems and economic problems to grapple with. 
Erratutn 

The Observer apologizes for misspelling the name of Saint Mary's newly-appointed Vice­president for College Relations ~rry Durance in yesterday's ISSUe. 



The Observer Thursday, April 5, 1979 -page 7 

Mother tries to delay condemned son's execution 
ATMORE, Ala. (AP) -A lawyer for the mother of condemned murderer John Lewis Evans III says he wifl fine an emergency appeal to the 
U.S. Supreme Court this morning to try to delay Evans' execution, now scheduled for 
12:01 a.m. tomorrow. 
Attorney John Carroll of the Southern Poverty Law Center announced hts decision yesterday, moments after the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans reJected a petition by Betty Evans to stay her son's death in the electric chair. 
Mrs. Evans also met briefly with Gov. Fob James yesterday to a~k for his personal inteP ventton. 
Evans opposed both pleas, but a priest who knows him well said -the convicted murderer would change his mind and "fight for his life" if his execution were postponed. 
A three-judge panel of the federal court split 2-1 against a stay. The maiority said 1t found no legal justificauon that would enable Mrs. Evans to intervene in the case as her son's ''next friend." 
To grant ''next friend'' status, the court would have to hold Evans was incapacitated and someone else had to take an action he normally would take himself. 
But Judge James Hill of Atlanta satd he ''would grant the stay in order to ascertain whether or not a ment2l deficiency short of incompetency would authorize proceeding by a next friend." 
The Rev. Kevin Duignan, a Catholic priest who visits Evans daily at Holman Prison, said yesterday Evans, who has fought efforts to spare his life, now feels a postponementwould be ''a message from God." 
K o_f C holds 
drive_for 

the retarded 
The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus, in conjunction with the Indiana State Knights, will be rarticipating in the Tootsie Rol Drive for the Mentally Retarded which will begin to­morrow and continue through April 11. This project is a nationwide drive to raise funds for the mentally retarded, but all the funds raised remain in the local area. In the Notre Dame area, the funds go to Corvilla, Logan Center and the Special Olympics. 
The Kmghts and their help­ers will solicit donations in local retail areas April 6-8 and out­side the dining halls at Notre Dame April 9-11. Donors will be given a Tootsie Roll. 
Groups helping the Knights this year are volunteers for Logan Center and members of Right to Life. Thomas J. Letbowitz, Grand Knight of the Notre Dame Council, invites anyone who would like to donate some time to this cause to contact him or any of the Knights ofColumbus officers at 7018. The Knights will provide a car pool on the weekenc! to t~anspon workers to local shop­pmg areas. 
Duignan also said Evans appeared in recent days to be ' a very confused individual'' who has seemed on the verge of a breakdown. 
But with Duignan and a deputy warden standing beside him yesterday, Evans, 29, showed no signs of fear as he read a five-minute "final statement" to about 60 reporters. 
Evans asked that his electrocution be videotaped, and the tape used to ''demonstrate the barbarity of capital punishment and as a lesson to the young criminal." 
Mrs. Evans met with James for barely one miniute, but her attorney, Morris Dees, Director of the Southern Poverty Law Center, presented her case to the governor for about 45 


Workers walk off jobs ; United cancels flights 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Unired Airlines cancelled all flights through the busy Easter hohday period and announced plans for additional layoffs yesterday as federal mediators resumed ef­forts to resolve a contract dispute between the nation's largest air carrier and striking machinists. 
Federal mediator Robert 0. Harris met with both sides as bargaining resumed for the first time since 18,000 members of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers walked off their jobs Saturday. It was not clear when representatives of the two sides would meet face-to-face. 
The two sides have reached agreement twice before on ten­tative contract settlements, but both were rejected by the rank and file. The second rejection, announced late last week, pre­cipitated the walkout. 
As the talks resumed, United extended the period of flight canceHation four days through April16. The company normal­ly carries about 130,000 pas­sengers a day between 100 
Right to life 



schedules talk on deformaties 
There will be a lecture on "The Deformed Child's Right to Care'' tonight at 7 p.m. in' the Librarv Auditorium by Dr. Eugene F. Diamo,nd: Diamond also will discuss documented discrimination against pro-life medical school stude{ltS and applicants, as well as alterna­tives to abortion. 
Diamond is a Professor iM Pediatrics at Loyola Universay, Stritch School of Medicine. He is President of the Illinois Academy of Pediatrics, author of "This Curette for Hire" and founder of Birthright in Chicago. . The lecture is sponsored by ND-SMC Right to Life, Knights of Columbus, and Saint Mary's Senior Class. A reception following the lecture will take place 10 the Breen-Phillip' s Puzzle Room. 

minutes. After the meeting, Dees said James indicated tie would not act until he saw what the courts did. 
James' legal adviser, Mike Waters, said the governor was considering whether to hold a clemency hearing. If such a hearing were called, it would require a temporary post­ponement of the sentence. Evans was sentenced to die for· killing a Mobile pawnshop owner, Edward Nasser, who was shot to death at his store with his two daughters nearby. 
Evans said in his statement: ''Any family I have hurt and particularly the little children who have suffered by what I have done to them now, I am deeply sorry and hope that some day, they will find it in their hearts to forgive me.'' 
American cities. Company spokesmen say United accounts for about 20 percent of all domestic air travel. 
Meanwhile, mediators ar the 
National Mediation Board, 
which tries to resolve disputes 
in the railroad and airline 
industries, worked to head off a 
threatened strike against a 
second air carrier. 
Officials reponed some prog­
ress in resolving a contract 
dispute between the Indepen­
dent Union ofFlight Attendants 
and Pan American, the coun­
t~y's largest overseas air ear­
ner. 
The union, which represents about 4,500 flight attendants at Pan Am, has threatened to strike beginning Sunday. Union president MarY. Ellen King satd a count ofmatl ballots showed members voting 3,064­84 in favor of a strike. 
:······························· 
: The Designers at 
• 
. 
• 
. cos1mo's 
•
• 

Rose, Connie, and Sally·= 
can be trusted 

to design your hair to 
fit your personal need. 
please call for an appt. 277·1875 18461 st. rd.23 
................................ ! 
Student Union presents In person 
Gordon Inkeles on the art of 
Massage 
A lecture-Film Demonstration A GJmplete Body Massage 
7 : 30 pm Walsh Hall Thursday April 5 Free Admission 
.A8ee, chairman ofthe Bendix CorporationThn~c forecast for the 1980s dun·ng a lecture y~st::J..,;.n e_ l f:.~s pabrt ofthe Graduate Business Students' lecture 
NEEDS: 

senes.  ll"ooto  Y Dave Rumbach]  
,.  a gs • a Blue Mantle  1  I  :l•  

only a few select, brilliant, creative, walk on water type women 
E~ITOR, Asst. Editor, Copy Editor, Photography 
Edttor _ 
REQUIREMENTS: 
rel~ted ye~~book experience, creative writing & destgn abtltty, dedtcation to fine professionalpublication 
REMUNERATION: stipend~ pract!cal work experience, management/ roducuon skills 
AppJicatio~s available in the SMC Student Activities Office -166 LeMans . DEADLINE Tuesday, April 17
r.• • 
a a a 1 
Hey Lucky Youi!J-• 
The Student Union Social Commission Is now taking applic~tions fot positions next yeat 

Applications available for : 
Assistant Commissioners Nazz Director Special Events Coordinator Publicity and others 
Applications available in S.U. Offices 2nd floot Lafortune ot call 7757 
Hlo-~ 
••.,.. NNI :-...-;:;: 
__,,...,__...
:.~--~u: ~.. :: 
................. -
Ita... ,,. I 1 ....,_
.........ALL DIIIASI 
,., \\Ill· .\RTE 
PltOII 





Features 
Thursday, April 5, 1979 -page 8 
The Collegiate jazz Festival 
The Collegiate Jazz Festival, now entering its twenty-first year, as the oldest and largest jazz festival in the world, will emerge spontaneously from Stepan Center this Friday and Satur­day, April 6 and 7. This year the festival will showcase bands from across the United States, featuring the unpredictable, exciting group from Texas Southern University, the techni­cal wizardry and drive of the Ohio State sombos and bands, and the intensity of such improvisers, as only Norhtwestern, Northeastern Illinois, and the Wisconsin Conservatory of Music can provide. 
Of course, this is only a sampling of what is in store during this wanton weekend of jazz. More importantly, though, is the protruding fact that this is the twenty-first Colegiate Jazz 
Festival. Twenty-one years as the 
foremost event in college jazz. 
Somehow, in an ephemeral artform 
such as jazz, it would seem, that this 
April rite has found a permanence, 
and exists as a milestone, a tribute, a 
calling to a greater jazz need. 

Colleg-e jazz is a vital jazz. Every year it Is being recognized more and more for the fresh, vibrant ideas that it pours into the jazz mainstream. The Notre Dame Colleg-iate Jazz Festival continues to provide a unique and educationally stimulating forum for the expression of these young, "fertile ideas. Established in 1959, the CJF has grown from a regional Mid-West competition to a nattonwide festival, stressing jazz for /'azz's sake and not an "improvisers cash." 
Over the decades, the CJF has been the initial stepping stone for many student musiCians who later success­fully entered the professional ranks. The long list of past CJF participants includes Bob James, Randy Brecker, Billy Harper, Dave Sanborn, James Pankow, Dee Dee Bridgewater and Oscar Brashear. This year, six judges from nearly all eras of jazz history: swing, bop-hard· Bop, mainstream, fusion, crossover, and modern big vand, will combine with :l guest band and emcee who represent the country blues and vocal aspects of the idiom, to offer their successors in the world of jazz an unprecedented lore of advice, criticism, and enthusiasm. 
Join Stanley Turrentine, Philly Joe Jones, Joe Sample, Richard Davis, Buddy DeFranco, Nat Adderley, Jethro Burns and Tim Hauser of the Manhattan Transfer as they unleash and partake of yet another amazing brick of jazz this weekend. It may be your most exciting musical experience until the 22nd Collegiate Jazz Festival rolls around next spring. 

Joe Carey 





''It has rarely been rivaled even by the profes­sional jazz festivals. ' ' 
Downbeat 


The Observer ~ Features Thursday, April 5, 1979 -page 9 

Time 
' 

I 
1 
j 
j l 

Edited by Chris Stewart Layout by Ann Monaghan 




• ~ • .. ', ~ • T ~ • ----· ---< 


,--~--------~~--~----------------~----------~----,_--~~, 
........ ; 
t 
The Observer Thursday, April 5, 1979 -page 10 
------------~-----------------~ 
SMC student governrrent sponsors I


Church historians meet at ND;
I 

women's Qpportunity week I

!discuss Catholic tradition 
(WOW): Celebrating Women I 
in the Arts I I 
I 1-2:30 Presentation: -I I I I
Women in the Theatre Julie Jenson 
I 

SMC/ND Speech and drama Det>t Diana Field SMC/ND Speech and Drama Dept Stapleton Lounge 
4:00 Open Reception 
In Honor of WOW Participants Stapleton LoWlge 
L---------~------------------­

SMC ORIENTATION '79 

Applications now being accepted for: 
-chairman -Bisz-Sister/Little Sister Chairman -Asst. chairman -Tours Chairman -Off-campus chairperson -General Committee workers -Publicity chairperson 
Applications available in the Student Activities Office ­166 LeMans -Deadline -Monday, April 9th. Applications wzll not be accepted after April 9th. 

save now on our 






$1 00 

summertime pizza • 
.
specta.I 

DISCOUNT 
.. ON ANY

50~ OFF 10'' PIZZA· 
Li,..i+ , :~;.,pon per Pizza 

~~~~~~~-BAI\NABY'!~~~~~~~ 
lot!ar tt ·• l.t..,..1 11 a.rn. to 11:30 p.&
DAILY 

Ft•dar a.d s~turday 11 a.m. to 12:30 a.& 


Several noted church histor­
ians will participate in the 
annual spring meeting of the 
American Catholic Historical 
Association (ACHA) to be con­
ducted tomorrow and Saturday 
at Notre Dame. Sessions will 
be directed by Prof. J. Philip 
Gleason of Notre Dame History 
Department and ACHA past 
president. 
''Two Perspectives on Tradi­tion and Change in Recent American Catholicism" will be the topic at the general session Friday evenin~ in the CCE. Speakers will be James Hitchcock, St. Louis University, and David O'Brien, College of the Holy Cross. 
The ftrst session at 9:30 a.m. Friday will focus on "Tradition and Change in the Early Middle Ages: The . Case of Pope Hadrian I," and papers will be presented by Jan T. Hallenbeck, Ohio Wesleyan; DavidS. Sefton, Ohio Northern, and Robert S. Cutler, Wittenberg Universities. This will be followed by • 'American Bishops and Ethnic Catholic Traditions," with papers by Thomasauge, Loras; Sr. Dolores Liptak, St. Joseph, and Saul Bronder, St. Vincent Colle eges. 
An afternoon session will begin with ''The Era of the Reformation and Counter­Reformation," with Ludvik Nemec, Chestnut Hill Colle~e; John Olin, Fordham University, and Eric Cochrane, University of Chicago, presenting talks. Also on the afternoon schedule is ''Americanism and After'' with talks by LaVernJ. Rippley, St. Olaf College; Alfred J. Ede, Loras, and Fr. Bernard Noone, Manhattan College. 
''The Papacy and Change in the 19th Century" and ''Problems and Renewal in the History of American Religious Communities" will be addres­sed by talks ofAlan Reinerman, Boston College; Fr. Richard F. Costinan, Loyola University of Chicago; Frank J. Coppa, St. 
John's University; Sr. Jane Boogan, Sisters of Charity, Chicago; Sr. Karen Kennelly, College of St. Catherine, and Cassian J. Yuhaus, CARA. 
Fr. Joseph R. Crowley, aux­iliary bishop of Fort Wayne­South Bend, and Joseph N. Moody, president of the American Catholic Historical Association, will speak at the evening banquet. 
Saturday sessions open with John R. Griffin, University of Southern Colorado; Peter Iver Kaufman, University of North Carolina, and John D. Root, Illinois Institute of Technology, discussing, ''Newman, Acton and Victorian Catholic Intellec­
tualism.''  Also  scheduled  is  
"Ecclesial  Women  and  Their  
Impact  on  the  Church''  with  

talks by Rosary College nuns 

Sr. Marie Walter Flood,Jeremy Finnegan and Mary Ewens. 
The final sessions Saturday morning are ''The Scholastic Revival: A Centenary Retro­spect'' and ''Catholic Archives: 
Needs and Recent Develop­ments.'' Papers will be pre­sented by Fr. James Hennesey, Boston College; Fr. Gerald McCool, Fordham University; Brooke Williams, University of Delaware-Dover; James M. 

O'Toole,  Archdiocese  of  
Boston;  Sr.  Evangeline  
Thomas,  Leadershi.P  Confer­ 

ence of Women Religious, and Wendy. Schlereth, Notre Dame. 


Poll shows Americans still favor death penalty 
NEW YORK (.AP) -With the first execution in this country in more than a year scheduled for ~riday, most Americans remain m favor of ~he death penalty for those .convicted of murder, an Associated Press-NBC News poll shows. . . . 
And the .Pubhc ts convmced capital pumshment does deter some people from committing murder. . Sixty-two percent of tho~e mtervtewed March 19-20 satd they favor th~ death penalty for persons convicte~ of murder. 
That support Is down some­what fror_n leve.ls found last year. It ts 4 pomts below the September survey. 
Last month, 24 percent opposed the death penalty and 14 percent were not sure. 
. This finding comes as con­vtcte~ murder~rs are scheduled to dte soon m Alabama and Florida. . 
No o!le has bee~ executed m the U mted State smc~ Jan. 17, 1?77, when a ~tah fmng. squad 
kllled Gary Gllmore. Gilmore, who said he wanted to die, was the first person to suffer capital punishment in this country after 10 years of Supreme Court challenges of death penalty laws in individual states. 
The next man to be executed 


============could be John Louis Evans III, scheduled to die in the early morning hours of April 6 at
Tech Review Holman Prison in Atmore, Ala. 
The 29-year-old native of Beaumont, Texas, was sen­tenced to the electric chair for

hosts 
the Jan. 5, 1977, shooting death of a pawnshop ow]ler in Mobile, 

Ala. Also close to the electric chair The Technical Review of is John Spenkelink, who is on 
Notre Dame is hosting the 1979 Florida's death row awaiting th Engineering College Magazine outcome of a final clemency Association Conference which hearing, .That hearing is 

con_ference 
begins tomorrow morning in scheduled for April 20. The the CCE. Expected to partici­U.S. Supreme Court refused 
March 26 to review his case.

pate are 125 delegates from such schools as USC, Rutgers, Many supporters of the death 
penalty argue that the threat of North Carolina State, Louisiana the ultimate punishment deters Tech, University of Illinois and 

University of California at some people from committing murder. Most Americans agree 
Berkeley. 
with that argument, the 

AP-NBC poll shows. 
Seventy-one percent of those questioned agreed that the dearh penalty IS a deterent and 25 pertent disagreed. Four percent of the 1,600 adults Interviewed nationwide by tele­phone said they were not sure. 
As with any sample survey the results of the AP-NBC new~ polls could differ from the results of interviews with all Americans with telephones because of chance vanations in the sample. 
For polls with 1,600 inter­views the results should vary no m~re than three percentage points either way simply be­cause ofsample errors. That is, there is only one chance out of 20 that the results of interviews with all American adults would vary from these results by more than three percentage points. 
Of course the results could va!y from other polls because of differences in the wording of questions, timing of interviews or the method of interviewing. 
Alutnni, CCE 
sponsor 

courses 
The Alumni Association and 

the Center for Continuing Edu­
cation at the University of Notre 
Dame ·will join once again in 
sponsoring the Summer Alumni 
College July 23-27. Partici­
pants have a unique vacation 
opportunity of combining ser­
ious education fare with ample 
recreation periods on the cam­
pus, 
Courses planned for the 1979 

session are ''Seeking America: 
The Pursuit of Loneliness and 
the Search for Home'' and 
"Christian Values and Profes­
sional Lives: The Challenge 
and the Promise." Notre Dame 
faculty members will teach the 
courses, and on-campus air­
conditioned housing will be 
available for students who 
choose one or both of the 
educational offerings. 
--.:r 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board ·,
The news is reponed as accurately and as objectively. as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief .... , ..Rosemary Mills Features Editor ....... Chris Stewart represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor , ....... Doug Christian Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commenraries, Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Semor Copy Editor ...... K. Connelly 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewis Business Manager ..... Steve Odland newspaper published by students of able to all members of rhe community, News Editor ............ Mark Rust Production Manager. , .. Tim Sullivan the Umversity of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News Editor, ..........Mike Shields 
Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through leners, is Saint Mary· s Editor .... , Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ......Bob Rudynecessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Sports Editor , ..........Mark Perry ControJier ....... , ... John Tucker 

_The Observer_ 

.....................&&~~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~
~ ,.......... 
~­
~ 
The Observer
t 
r 
~ 
New core requirement for Arts 


and Letters majors announced 
by]oe Slot/inec chronological list of Great StaffReporter Books.'' Sniegowski said that "Ideas,
-' 
Assistant Dean Donald Values, and Images" will use Sniegowski of the College of three main modes of reaching in Arts and Letters announced the course: primary works, yesterday that the College of values questions growing out of Arts and Letters plans to re­the readings and supporting place the required Collegiate materials outside of the class­Seminar course with a new core room that will help students course entitled "Ideas, Values think more about the values and Images" 211-212, for the questions which were raised. 1979-1980 school year. The A tentative reading list was course will be required of drawn up by the committee sophomores. which propos~d the course to 
the College Council. However,''Students who graduate in Sniegowski §;lid that "the facul­_1980 have to take the Collegiate ty to teach the course willSeminar," S:1iegowski said. In determine the final reading listthe few cases where this year's by mid-May. The reading listjuniors have not taken both will be mailed to all sopho­semesters of Collegiate Semi­mores-to-be in late May."
nar, Sniegow::.ki sa1d that the· After reading the primaryCollege of Arts and Letters will works, the professors will leadwork out another seminar or the students in discussing thecourse with the student to make "values questions introduced in up the missing semester. 
each topic,'' Sniegowski ex­
"Next yt-ar's juniors will plained, adding, ''For example, replace the C.1llegiate Seminar one of the values questionswith two free electives," Snie­discussed under society may be gowski said. The College of the Bakke decision.'' The Arts and Letters does not have impact of specific technological enough money N personnel rc inventions on the natural envir­both reach the Collegiate Semi­onment and their moral impli­nar to next year's junis>rs and · cati.ons are other suggested"Ideas, Values and Images" to rop1cs. next year's sophomores. 
"We hope to have supporting 

The new core course will be materials that help to enlighten supervised by SniegowsL's of­the faculty and students on fice as a college course and not questions brought up, such as as a departmtntal course. public lectures by faculty mem­Sophomores who study over­bers of the college and video­seas next year will take the tapes on the Nova (PBS-1V) course during their junior year. series for the nature section,'' General Program sophomores Sniegowski commented. The will not take the course, as they Nova series of television spe­have seminar courses in their cials concern the impact of departmental curriculm. science and technology on na­
ture.
"Ideas, Values and Images" will be taught by regular faculty The Committee on University members of the college,'' Snie­Priorities (COUP) in 1973 rec­gowski said, adding, ''In most ommended that the College of cases, it will be taught by senior Arts and Letters find a course to 
faculty members.'' There will replace the Collegiate Seminar, be twenty sections with twenty which has been a College 
students apiece. Sniegowski requirement since 1958. After wants students to stay 10 the researching various proposals same professor's section for the for five years, a committee 
chaired by Philosophy Depart­whole year. 
ment Chairman Cornelius De­The new core course ''will be laney drew up a final proposalbased upon topics with six in the summer and autumn ofsections: nature, society, indi­1978. The College Councilvidual, art, god, values and approved the proposal in No­integration. Each topic is vember, and College of Artsmeant to imroduce the student and Letters Dean Isabel Charlesto major concerns of the College asked Sni~gowski to direct theof Arts and Letters," Snie­new course in December.
gowski said. According to Sniegowski, the Sniegowski explained his rea­course from the Collegiate Sem­sons for selecting the course. inar which "operated on a "We wanted a course for 

Experts disagree on nucl~ar reactor -usability 
MIDDLETOWN, P A (AP) . a In an i~terview yesterday, federal nuclear expert says it Bernard sa1d he would prefer will cost upwards of $150 t~at the core be dismantled and million to replace the damaged d.tsp?s~d ofon a m.ore pr~rected fuel core at Three Mile Island sue 1f 1t becomes 1mposs1ble to and decontaminate the reactor. clean the reactor. But others suggest it would be He said it would cost $100 easier, and maybe even million alone simply to replace cheaper, to pour in cement and rh~ fuel core, and a~other $50 scrap it. mdhon to decontammate and 
repair the reactor building. 
Bernard said the cost of the''I doubt the core clean-up will have ro be borne by the operators, but it is can be used aaain , , expected that the utility will ask 
<'5' for a rare increase to cover its 
costs. 
"I doubt that the core can The reactor is one of two on ever be used again. It would the small island in the middle of have to be completely replaced, the Susquehanna River which is although the building doesn't operated by Metropolitan appear to be damaged,'' said Edison Co. The original price Robert Bernard of the Nuclear tag for the two-unit plant was Regulatory Commission. $1 billion. 
sophomores, not juniors, which would introduce th<: beginning Arts and Letters student to the many profound concerns of liberal arts education." He considers the six topics of the course among the most impNt­ant for a liberal arts student <uld wants the topics to be intro­duced from a non-specialist's point of view. 
''The readings are more cur­rent than the ones in the Collegiate Seminar, although there is no rule that the readings had to be modern and contemporary,'' Sniegowski noted. He pointed out that he ''wanted faculty who would be both good enough and humble enough to confront the readings from many different disciplines and help the students to under­stand them." 
Sniegowski mainrained that "general education courses (such as 'Ideas, Values and Images' ) should come in the first two years of college,'' with students specializing in their junior and senior years. He expressed a hope that the values course makes ''Arts and 
Letters  students  understand  
this  is  a  college,  not  Just  a  
random  collecnon  of  depart­ 

ments." 
ARmANDO'S 
BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 1437 N.lronwood Dr. South Bend 
277-0615 
Sue, Ruthie, Kim 
Armando-stylist 
mon-fri 8-5:30 sat 8-2 by appt. only sat-no appt. needed 
Thursday, April 5, 1979 -page 11 

The Notre Dame Open Volleyball Tournament will be held this Saturday in the A. C. C. fphoto by ]a_y Rafter] 
SPRING FEVER ND~SmC CLASS OF '79 


_ HAPPYHOUR 

Reactor Managers Wanted 
A small number of trainee positions exist for college seniors with bachelors or graduate degree In Math, Physics, Chemistry or Engineering. Training Includes one year of graduate level courses In thermodynamics, materials, reactor dynamics, core characteristics, plantsystems and operations. 
Naval security requirements necessitate 
U.S. citizenship, BA/BS, and under 26 years of age 
with Impressive academic credentials. Sign up for an Interview In the Placement Offlce wltb the U.S. Navy on the 

11th and 12th of April 
~ 
: ~ 
I I 
I 

~ 
. 
( 
~-~--~ -­

The Observer Thursday, April 5, 1979 -page 12 
Trucking shutdown continues 

Chrysler cuts back production 

Young and old alike enjoy the spring[?] weather and a walk around the lake. 

~()tit: UClrnt: S()£1cll (()rnfl!1§§1()11 ()((?§f?lll§ A ··~Ill(? ~ (t!£lf?§£ IJ::lfll~~ II• ,,1 '' --.ic_l t \t-tll ·• 
,•••• lh~········}li tlt,ltt! ( l-~ I. 111~J ~I ~ •• ll. ) 
DETROIT (AP)-Chrysler Corp. said yesterday it will stop 
I 
I virtually all'' manufacturing on Monday because of parts shortages arising from the trucking industry shutdown. 
Other manufacturers were still making plans from day to day as more than one autowork­er in seven was either laid off or on short hours yesterday. 
An estimated 43,700 workers were on furlough Tuesday and another 79,250 were on reduced shift because of the Teamster strike and lockout. Those two groups totalled nearly 123,000 workers out of a blue-collar work force estimated by the United Auto Workers umon at 770,000. 
In the latest moves, Chrysler imposed half-shifts on 14,600 workers at four stamping plants in the Detroit area and one at Twinsberg, OH. 
Chrysler said yesterday was the last day of four-cylinder engine/roduction at Trenton, MI, an 125 workers would be laid off rod a y. 
Another 3, 600 truck as­sembly workers ?-t Chry~ler' s St. Louis plant will be la1d off today as previously announced. They worked half shifts yester­day. 
Monday's shutdown, if it hits all plants, will bring the num­ber of laid-off Chrysler workers to 85,000 in 41 plants in six stares. About 17,800 of those already were on layoff yester­day because of the trucking shotdown and another 12,300 of those were on furlough anyway to reduce car and truck inven­tories at four assembly plants. 
Ford Motor Co. reported no changes from its previous re­duced-hours schedules at 15 
U.S. plants. Spokesman Paul Preuss said Ford's earlier fig­ure of 51,000 workers affected included 8,000 in Canada, and the U.S. figure should be 44,000. 
General Motors Corp. re­stored some plants to full operations yesterday from cur­tailed shifts, but cut back elsewhere. 
com1ng•.. 
Late yesterday afternoon, spokesman Ed Lechtzin report­ed these layoffs: 3,400 at a truck assembly plant in Pontiac, MI; 6,000 at a truck assembly plant in Flint, MI; 7,500 at a car assembly plant in Lordstown, OH;4,500 at the Packard Elec­tric division plant in Warren, OH and 500 at an AC Spark Plug division in Flint. 
Assembly plants in these cities put workers on short hours yesterday: Norwood, OH, 4, 500; Arlington, TX, 4,000; Detroit (Chevrolet), 500; St. Louis, 7, 100; Pontiac, 950. 
The Pontiac figure was an improvement from Tuesday, when hours for 6,150 were cut back. The Janesville, WI, and Leeds, MO. assembly plants, which had cut hours for a total of 8 600 workers Tuesday, ran full ~ours yesterday, GM said. 

All auto companies were scrambling to keep supplies flowing. Extra rail shipments were made where possible and air shipments of key parts were stepped up, .and n~m-union drivers were sull workmg. 
Chrysler president Lee A. Iacocca noted at a luncheon for reporters yesterday, "Team­ster drivers have been deliver­ing a hell of a lot of parts-and
c ,,

cars-1or us. 

Grand jury indicts Klan members in shootings 
WASHINGTON (AP) Twenty members of the Ku Klux Klan in Alabama, includ­ing a local Klan leader and a police officer, were indicated by a federal grand jury on charges stemming from shooting in the homes of NAACP leaders and racially mixed couples. 
The Jusrice Department said the eight-count indictment, re­turned in U.S. District Court in Birmingham, named Wayne Vincent, Exalted Cyclops of Klan Chapter 1015 in Sylacauga, AL, William M. Rayfield, a police officer in Childersburg, AL, and 18 others. 
The FBI has arrested all 20. 
Justic Department spokes­man John Wilson said 1t was the FBI's largest number of Klan members ever indicated. 
Nine of the Klansmen were charged with conspiring Jan. 5, 1979, to have one of the KKK 
members, Howard S. Webb, impersonate an FBI agent to 
arrest a white man named Leon 
R. Jarrett. Justice Department spokes­men declined comment on the purpose of the alleged conspir­acy. 
The indictment charged that 13 or the Klansmen plotted on 


Nov. 30, 1978, to shoot mto the 
homes ofWillie J. Williams and 
Charles Woods, local leaders of 
the NAACP, to intimidate them 
from continuing an equal em­
ployment campaign. 
The Justice Department said 
Williams and Woods had been 
trying to get jobs for blacks in 
the Sylacauga and Childersburg 
police and fire departments and 
had complained about alleged 
police brutality and harassment 
of blacks. 
Vincent and eight other Klansmen were accused of taking part in another conspir­acy in November, 1978, that involved shooting into a home in Sylacauga that was being shared by two white women, Juanita T. Fowler and Debra Ann Payne, and two black men, Bobby R. Huntley and Clinton Kirkland. 
============
E 'ht •
gyy lan

rnbl•net 
""" 

asks su·_hhQrt
r r 

The Egyptian Cabinet favors a national referendum to show Arab critics that Egyptians support the peace with Israel but President Anwar Sadat must make the final decision, Cabinet sources said yesterday. 
They said Sadat, who declar­ed that Mideast peace moves had gained momentum through Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin's bisit to Egypt, might reveal his deci­sion today in an address to Parliament. 
The two leaders, who signed a peace treaty in Washington ten days ago tha! officially ended a 30-year state of war, have agreed to meet agian May 27 in the Sinai Desert capital cJ. El Arish to open the bord~ between their countries. .f 
The Egyptian Cabinet mrl for two hours yesterday, reaffirm­ing its approval of thet treaty and arproving for the fust time the mterpretive memoranda accompanying the document. 
Begm also saicV a telephone "hot line" was bemg set up so he and Sadat could reach each other easily. · 
Reliable Egyptian govern­ment sources reported that the referendum could be conducted withing a few days to show Arab leaders who oppose Sadat's peace initiative that he has popular backing. The poll would be virtually guaranteed to ~ive Sadat an overwhelming maJority, since domestic oppo­sition to the treaty is minimal. 
The Egyptian Parliament is scheduled to debate the treaty today. 


' 

;::· ...··· 
·::·>~/~:-~::::::~· ·: ·.;-:::..




Southern Indiana reports 
I . ·· .......,. ...··· ..: ·.·, .,.. ,.....·....·.......,:.•..•.•.·..•..•. •. •.,.·······.·····.··.···,··.·.·.··.·,·..
···········11.

)••.• tt.oo.•·off any ~lbufl1 ortape Witb this toQpon.l.ifilif ·.••·· 
one per person. Now dtr()ugh May 7~ l'¢otg()Od .. o11··· 
··••• ~ut--outs~ imports.•• or sale.}te!Jls, .Coupon·· z!!l1~t •• be •· I
increase in rabies cases presented before purchasets rung tnto c~~h lfglSt(!f? . • I
• p 
The 
Observer Thursday, April 5, 1979 -page 13 
¥¥111-¥ -Kathleen Carroll
;tLyNews 
JACK LEMMON :::
-.t/Vr$Li~i.''
~ 

JANE FONDA ..•. :· : ,.•.. MICHAEL DOUGI...AS' \ .. ··: . ,,,/. 
~ [ffi ·: ::· ..#\ 
Shows 2:15-4:40-7:05-9:30 Shows 1:00-3:1D-5:2D-7:30-9:50 

THE DEER HUNTER 
Shows mon-fri 1:30-B:Ov Sat.-Sun. 1:30-4:45-8:00 No Bargain Mat. 
..----------..-~~P--t
! . · · RiVer Cicy;> . .I 

South Benet's largesfrecord 1· and't(lpe Seled:ionl .·.... 1 
Some interesting ceramic projects can be found in the Old Fieldhouse. 
I·· 
/··1•.
.r-----.·.·..-...·.·····'·-~····.:.:.:........~-.·:·----~:...•:..-.·.··:::i\::
-----·-: ---:-­



PAOLI, IN (AP) 
The number of rabies cases 
among animals in a four-county 
area of southern Indiana has 
grown to 13, as many as were 
reported in the entire state last 
year, health officials said yes­
terday. 
All but four of the cases have 
been in Orange County, where 
authorities have imposed · a 
six-month quarantine, in hopes 
of stemming the outbreak. 
Robert Humphrey, a 
spokesman for the Indiana 
State Board of Health at 
Indianapolis, said three more 
cases of rabies in skunks from 
Orange County were confirmed 
yesterday. 
Two more possible cases, 
including a dog, were being 
tested in the board of health 
laboratory. 
Officials said the disease 
initially seemed concentrated in 
the skunk population, but other 
cases now have been confirmed 
in a cow, a horse and a raccoon 
in Orange County. The cow and 
the horse were the first 
domestic animals found to have rabies in Indiana since 1976, and the raccoon was the first ever in Indiana, Humphrey said. 
The other cases · all m 
skunks have been more 
isolated, with two in Lawrence 
County, one in_ Martin County 
and one in Spencer County. 
About ten persons, including 
a family exposed by the cow, 
are taking a painful series of 21 
rabies shots in Orange County, 
and sheriff's department 
spokewoman Ruby Copeland 
said several dogs have been 
destroyed by feaiful owners. 
''It's really created almost a 
panic, and people are over­
reacting to it," Mrs. Copeland 
said. "We're just getting 
completely covered up with 
calls about animals that are 
sick. It's worse because 
apparently a lot of dogs are 
coming down with distemper 
now, too.'' 
Humphrey said there have 
been no rabtes cases in Orange 
County since 1975. 
Officials are concerned be­cause of the possibility of hum ans contracting rabies, either from wildlife or domestic animals that have been infect­ed. Dr. Charles L. Barrett, director of the communicable disease control division for the State Board of Health, said most bites are inflicted by dogs and cats. "Rabies in these animals almost invariably results in exposure of humans to the disease," he said. 
The raccoon case is consider­ed significant because of the possibility that a hunting dog might contract the disease and carry it to the hunters. 
The last case of rabies in a human in lndi:;~na was in 1959, Humphrey said. 
He said only one person with a · laboratory proven case of rabies has survived. 
"It's invariably fatal," he said. "Once you do have clinical rabies, the outcome is almost certainly known.'' 
Barrett warned residents in the four-county area to avoid adopting wild animals, such a skunks, as pets. He noted that last year, in . Martin County 
• • . Bomb 

[continued from page 1) 
carton. The carton was discov­ered in a second-floor restroom. 
Roern('r explained than _th~" University has a very detailed system for dealing with such threats, but would not comment on specific points. He did s~y that, when a bomb threat 1s received, the Director of Secur­ity and the person responsible for the buildmg meet quickly to decide whether or not to evacu­ate. 
''This is a very serious matter," Roemer explained, alluding to the felony offense bomb threats carry in law. 
alone, 26 persons underwent rabies shot treatment because (?·••ro•·•l)Q·•·•••••••••• •••·••••••••••••••••••••••1


I•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••·•········ ·.·····~~~·sp~~~~~rtcf~f:~~~.•·•ffr···ug• .• 
of exposure to a single pet skunk. 
The incubation period for 
!,'lifl'>
rabies is often six months or longer, and an animal captured in the wild may appear normal only to develop rabies weeks or months later, Barrett said. 

THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION PRESENTS AN EVENING WITH ... 







DILLY 
~RIDAV,APRIL 20-8:00 NOTRE: DAME: A.C.C. 
TICKETS: $10.00 8:$8.50 (ALL SEATS RESERVED) 
Tickets on sale at Student Union Box office 
ACC Hox office River City Records 
PHOOUC[O BY 




The Observer -Sports Thursday, April 5, 1979 -page 14 




The Daily Crossword 
17 Enthusiasm 46 Certain 18 Careless creed 20 Beat hand 48 Afternoon 21 Twain hero function 22 Omits 49 Greek war 23 Nation's goddess 
sea power 50 Edible 25 Fiber plant mushroom 27 Parseghian 51 Jinx 29 Crucial 52 Flower 31 Vishnu 55 Tractable 
incarnation 57 Short­35 June bug legged36 Serious hound 
Yesterday's Puzzle ~olved: 

4/5/79 

All Rights Reserved 


Molarity 
WAlKING THIS Y£LLOWBRICK 

-· -------_____;,_____, 

Ih:>nsbury 
AS YOU KNOIJJ, OR. MAHI¥IVI, IN ReaNTIA/#J<S, 7H~ HAS 8WJ AN OfJTIW~N6 OF PFfJTl35T 
~ IRANIAN IAKJMEN OVeR me 
'" 1/Lt..-COVEXJN(j "OIAI)()R,Nt4HIOI : 7HeY SEt A5 A SYM&X CFISI.AMJC 

ods of time 70 Giants of 
folklore 71 Son of Odin 72 Trick 73 River in 
Ireland 
DOWN 1 Chew at 2 Tree snake 3 As a rule 4 Flora and 
fauna 5 Corn spike 6 Queen of 
Roman gods 7 Recluse 8 Poultry 
product 
9 Sublease 10 Seaport in Africa 
1 1 Embryo plant 12 Healthy 
in mind 13 Small 
lizards 19 Notgood 21 Powerful 
financier 
I 
WIU.1HE 
AYA7DUAH RESPOND TO THIS 
NEiiAJ.. 
24 Enormous 26 Always: lat. 27 Building 
material 28 Harbinger of spring 
30 In the pre­ceding month 
32 Druggist 33 Free-for­all 34 African antelope 37 Highmark on a test 42 Web-like membrane 45 Seafood delicacy 47 Tract of 
land 53 Meadow 54 Aquatic 
animal 
56 Tropical fruit S7 Mooring post 58 Oriental 
nursemaid 59 Farm struc­
ture 61 Handle: Fr. 63 Bearing 64 Otherwise 66 Promise to 
pay 67 Weep con­vulsively 
4/5/79 
f1'HA5Al~ 
8ECN R&SaVED. THE. Rill£ AeaJT THE CJfAAA. t(J45 I?£JNG TAkEN 
TOO /.J1ERAU.Y. 

• • • Yankees 
(continued from page 16] 
of dissention are spreading over Rice's contract renegotiation. For the Red Sox to stay close, George Scott must pull the Willie McCovey reincarnation trick, Carlton Fisk's arm must still be attached to his body and the chips must fall in the right places as far as Butch Hobson's elbow is concerned. With no sup_porting cast to speak of, it's the same ole saying: Three "ifs" and you're out in the old ball game. 
On'oles . 
The Orioles can beat some of the teams all of the time and all of the teams some of the time, but they will not beat enough of the teams enough of the time. The Orioles have a good pitching staff and a very respectable starting nine, but they lack the big names to win the crucial games. Earl Weaver has proved himself as one of the best managers in baseball, and he may guide this team as high as second place. but thats the most he can do. Jim Palmer is the stopper, but he never stops complaining about his contract and if his arm decides to leave him this year there won't be many tears shed. Mays, Murrays, DeCinnes and Singletons are not strange names, but neither are the all-stars, and that keeps the Birds from the top. 
Tigers 
The Tigers are a tough team to _pick. A lot depends on Mark "The Bird" Fidrych, but "the Bird" can't be depended on. Still the pitching staff is strong with Dave Rozema ready to blossom into one of the league's premier hurlers. There is a lot of talented youths in the Tiger camp which keeps new manager Les Moss smiling. But Moss' real job will be to light a new fire under Rusty Staub. Ron LeFlore must play consistently if the Bengals are to be feared, but don't expect much of a roar from Detroit this year. 
Indians 
There's not much nice to say about Cleveland or the Indians. Their pitching staff is mediocre at best and their mediocre pitchers have ailing arms. They traded a winner in Buddy Bell and picked up a loser in Bobby Bonds. The Indian will get to do his dance after home runs about once a game, because Toby Harrah, Andre Thornton and Gary Alexander can sock the ball. But "the Chief' better keep his head down when the other team is up because only the smog will keep ppponents' shots in the ball park. 
Blue jays 
John Mayberry hit three homers in three exhibition games last 
week. That may be the highlight of the Blue)ays' 1979 season. -)im Clancy is the ace of a staff that holds no face cards. Rico Carty is another big name, but the plusses end there. Mike Boseti has been hitting well in the Grapefruit League, but so are a lot of other grapefruits. Alfredo Griffin andJoe Cannon can run, so ifpitchers walk them, expect to see a lot of stolen bases. Otto Velez, one of the best minor league players of all times, is a stiff and so are the rest of the Blue ) ays. At least Toronto is a nicer place to live 
than Cleveland. 
Registration date slated for Bookstore Basketball 
Registration for this year's registration tee are needed to 
Bookstore Basketball Tourna­get one of the 256 open slots. ment will be held this Sunday, from 1-5 p.m., on the main floor Students, faculty and staff 
of the LaFortune Student from both Notre Dame and St. Center. Only two names and $1 Mary's may register. 

by Jim Mole 

by Garry Trudeau 
THE AYATOlLAH [)0£6 NOT 015­APP/WVE OF OTHER. f1:FM5 OF 

I SEc. IF IAJ'JRN
fJI<E5S. A5lON6 A5 711EY A~ 
HOIAJ ABOl!T wrm A
WJIJe5!: tullltfHE JJOeS career 
me ANNie VEil.., FIN~.
70 ~ SK/1<15 ANf) GOIIJN5, 
HAUIUJI<r 


Mariners victorious in 5-3 opener 
SEATILE--Leon Roberts and Willie Horton belted homers for the Mariners as coach Darrel ) ohnson's team won its season opener at the Kingdome last night, 5-3 over California. 
John Montague, in relief of starter Glenn Abbott, got the first win of the American League season opener, while Frank Tanana suffered the loss for the Angels. 
Tanana went the distance for the losers, serving a two-run shot to Roberts and Horton's solo shot. Rick Miller hit a three-run blast for California. 
• • • Giants 
[continued from page 16] 
"I wish I could have shut them out," he said. "I would get two strikes on a lot of hitters and end up making a bad pitch. 
"But I don't give a damn what the critics say. I just try to pitch the way Vida Blue can pitch." 
The game featured a match­up of Cy Young winners, but the duel didn't last long. The Reds' Tom Seaver gave up seven runs -four of them earned -in the second inning and left the game the loser. 
"I had some balls hit hard, and got the ball out over the plate too much," Sea\ er said. "It's something I'll have to work on the next couple of days. '' 
It was an inauspicious debut for new Reds' manager John McNamara. 
''There were so many things going on I didn't have time to think about it," he said. ''Those things happen, whether it's opening day or whenever." 
One bright spot for Cincin­nati was the pitching of21-year­old rookie Frank Pastore, who allowed just one hit in three scoreless innings. 

Late New-s 

DePaul, which inked high school basketball star Teddy · Grubbs on Tuesday, received good news from another Chicago blue chipper yester­
day.  Terry Cummings,  a  6-9,  
220-pound  front-liner,  an­ 
nounced his  intention  to  play  

for Ray Meyer yesterday ... This afternoon's scheduled game in Detroit between the Tigers and Rangers has been postponed due to rain. 



Volunteers appreciated 
Professor Michael DeCicco and the University of Notre Dame are looking for indivi­duals who can donate an hour or two on the evenings of April 12-16. 
Citizens from 34 different countries will be visiting the South Bend campus for the 1979 Junior World Fencing Championships, to be held at. the ACC. Fencers, male and female under 20 years of age, will compete for the top ama­teur titles of the world. 
Students, faculty or· staff members wishing to help out, whether speaking a foreign language or not, can call the Ombudsman (6283) and volun­teer their services. 







The Observer -Sports Thursday, April 5 , 19 79 -page 15 
[continued from page 16] Lisch kept his seat on the Greg Knafelc are two players will be filled by the best Mississippi in the season's bench. In fact, he played not who figure to give Lisch all the quarterback on the squad. one second for the Insh last competition he needs, but, like Lisch wouldn't want it any other 
second game and a weak start season, prompting the coaching two seasons ago, he isn't way.
against Purdue in the third, staff to invite him back again worried. "I've got a shot at it and ILisch lost his job to ''the this year. As a five-year plan to make the most of that,''
Monongahela Minuteman," ''Bey, Tim and Greg are two
architecture student, the he says intently. ''But if I don't
• • • Lisch 
who proceeded to lead Notre great players, and I think they
proposition suited Lisch just stan, I'll still work as hard as I
Dame to an 11-1 record and a could easily do the job for us can to contribute."
national championship. Lisch fint> l" · ll next year," he says. "What I
· ''You better be teve It rea y
recalls the feeling of losing his appealed to me,'' he indicated plan to do is what I've always And, says Lisch, if everyone

gets 

starting job thoughtfully, but Monday before the first done-use the talents that God does that, Notre Dame should 
game me the best way I can and be in good shape next year.
with no complaint. scheduled spring practice of the not worry about who starts or "We have a lot of reaiJy' 'If you're an athlete and year. ''The coaches mentioned 
you're not playing, you're to whatever. I can't get caught up talented players,'' the friendly
that I might be able come 
gonna be upset,'' he states in what any other players are quarterback emphasizes. "If
back since I still had another

another 
flatly. "It's part of the nature doing. I've got my hands full everyone works hard, we'll do
year of eligibility, and I didn't 
of competition. Still, I believed hesitate to take them up on worrying about what I'm okay." then that it was God's will and their offer.'' doing." Then he pulls on his sweat­that to worry about what I Which puts Rusty Lisch right And that's just the way Dan shirt and heads outside to work 
wanted would have been back where he was two . seasons Devine wants it. He explains hard-just like he always has. selfish. Besides, Joe played ago-number one on the depth that Lisch is number one right Because if he's needed, Rusty fantastic football for us. He chart with plenty of good now by virtue of his experience, Lisch wants to be ready. To deserved to start.'' quarterbacks looking for his but is quick to point out that contribute, that is. 
And he did again in 1978 as job. Juniors Tim Koegel and when the season starts, the job ] ust like he always has. .-----------------------------------------------­

chance 
All class1f1ed ads must be recetved by 5 00 p.m .. two days prior to the issue 1n which the ad is run. The Ooserver office will accept class1f1eds Monday through Friday. 10:00 a.m to 5:00 p m All

Classifieds 
c1a~s1f1eds must be pre-pa1d. either in perso:1 or through the ma11 
Found: set of keys with horshoe on key REPRESENTATIVES WANTED for pro­Poohsie, NOAA: 
ring. Near tennis courts. Claim at motion of international bus lines in How have you been -are you on your Vote Otnerver office. Europe and Asia. Expedition in Africa knees? Begging to be with you sweet, John Hohnand South America. Camping tours. sweet peas. Katie Martins 
Notices • 
I'm back! It's true and I've missed you, 
Lost: one pair of brown rimmed glasses in Educational tours. Almost any travel PEST Beth Komachi
but once again happy to serve you. Cuts 
tan case-Grad students-if you picked up arrangement organised. Magic Bus, Victor Miller
and styles still only $6. Kim Frucci, stylist Joe SOLBERG· Iguess this is it, partner.
four on way Hour Damrak 87, Amsterdam, Holland."
277-0615 persons to Happy GM won't be the same without you -but Accounting Club Officers 
Friday they may be in our back seat. for '79-'80
after all that practice, I know you'll be
Contact Tim 1205 Friday April 6
Attention Notre Dame Women: Clinics Need ride to Kansas City for Easter. Can able to handle it admirable on your own for Dancin' Irish tryouts are:Sat April 7 leave Thurs., April12. Steve, 3506. next year. Happy Birthday, Rooms.
Lost: March 8 in Engineering Bldg. 1SR
1-3, Sun April 8 1-2, Mon April 9 7-8, Affectionately, Superman (alias Jim Lloyd), Thank you
51 calculator. Reward offered. Call Ron at
lues April10 7-8. Tryouts: Wed ApriiH Need riders east for break. Going to Tommy for the greatest birthday ever. You're the
3454

7-9. All meet in the pit in the ACC. Binghampton, Ne York via Route 80. Can best. Love, Lois Lane Questions? Call Ann Micinsku 3701 or drop you off along the way. Cal 6637. Jack, Nick, Tim, Rich, Pat, Terry, Chris,
©Found· one calculcator behind Keenan.
Lou Snellgrove 3704 leaving around noon Wednesday. Randy, John, Mark, Chris, Mike, Rick, Michael Mullery,
Call 117007 to identify 
Mike, Damian, Mike, Bill, Kevin, Burt, Thought for the day-National PORSCHE sports car publica· and oh yeh, matthey, Nobody does it Reach for your mate -Instead of yourG.K. CHESTERTON N.D. CHESTER­Lost: CANON Electronic Camera flash. 
tlon seeks free-iance writers. Call (219) better! plateTON SOCIETY FORMING. INTERES­At Nazz before break. Call 8417 
288-9898. ME
TED FACULTY AND STUDENTS WRITE: PAUL WOOD 304 ST JOSEPH 
Please help me home see my Jim Lloyd-
get to Would anyone (male female), please ask
HALL long-lost family for Easter. They live You're the greatest Bro ever! Thanks for


For Rent 
out Bob Cronin, 331 Dillon, the social· 
near HARTFORD, CT. and I am desper­being so devoted. You made my 19th a
zero of the Freshman class. He's desper·Celebrate the spring with a walk to ate for a ride home.Call 288-9049. happy one -I love you
House for rent -summer and possibly ate for his first date ever! Please callPandora's! Just amile walk (or jog) from 
Little Sis

next year Four bedroom. Furnished ·very 3793.
N.D. Happy Hour • all used books half close to campus-289-1718. Need ride to Toronto • any time! Willpric., every Friday afternoon. 233-2342 
share expenses. nao Angie Baby-Hope you had agreat B·day mine sureFor next school year. Furnished fourWHY PAY MORE? Flanner Records has 
bedroom house for rent close to Notre Need ride to Long Island -NYC for Walsh Haii·Wild and wonderful and 70 was! Thanks for everything! (Who
all $7.98 lp's for only $4,99. Flanner Dame 2n·3604 Easter! Will share everything! leave years old this week Happy Birthday! knows, maybe something will jumb myRecords 603 Flanner Phone 4256 Hours 
anytime. Scott 1861. way!)
Monday·Thursday 4:oo-5:00, 6:30-8:00 Love, Mary
Have large furnished home for rent, Accounting malors:N.D.A.A. elections
Why spend more off campus? 
Available for summer and fall semesters. Need ride to Schenectady N.Y. for Easter this Friday in Hayes-Healy lobby. vote: 
and ride to Bloomington sometime. Will Bill N,
Suitable for five or 6 students, 1 block Jack Brankln, Mark Flaherty. Tim Koch,TYPING. IBM Selectric Pickup and east of Memorial hospital, If Interested, sharE~ driving and expenses. Call Casey Brian Hanigan. Happy Birthday. Sorry we couldn't bedelivery 2n-o296 
8421 there -we've had a little too much lately!
call 232·4412. When you see the rest, you'll know we're 
Keep smiling! Guiseppe's 3 nlghters.
the best.
Typing in home. Fast, accurate, close by. 
Need ride to Rochester or Minneapolis for
INEXPENSIVE RENT THIS SUMMER* Thanks much!!!
Previously 272·7866 now 272-4105. Call Easter. Share driving and expenses. Don Patti,Furnished houses close to school. 2n­
after 5:30 8175 Good luck with cheerleadlng tryouts,
3604 

SMILEATTENTION MAY GRADS all May Need passengers to Cinci, April 7. Call Hey cool, Love,
Grads must repay their Morrissey Loans Judy 7227 How do you do White Horse? By the Judyby Thurs April12, or they will be turned mug or by the thimble. over to Student Accounts. Penalty will be For Sale Cool AS DATE-a revoluntionary new concept?
charged. NOT SO. If you would like to

Personals
Audiophiles· upgrade your system! Sell· re-experience, re-unite, and re-acquaintParents -Want a permanent Sat. night ing atechnics professional series AL-1400 yourself with this age-old custom of
There will be an Important meeting for
babysitter? Grad student $1 hr, nego­MK 2 turntable. Direct drive, semiauto­Need ride to Conn. Can leave Tues ·Apr. the members of the Green Beer Club at mterrelating with the opposite sex, call tiable. 233-1329. matic. Mark, 233-5256. 10 Call Pete 1603 the sherrlff or her deputy for more
Guiseppe's on Saturday night. After­information at SMC • 4679wards there will be a reception atAttention all L~an volunteers! This 
Need acorsage for the Farley or St. Ed's I am in love with a woman, 
Denny's Please be there!
Saturday, Aprll7, 1s the annual ND/SMC TONIGHT WIN A FREE BID TO THE
formal this weekend? I have top quality I want all to know.
picnic for Logan Center. It Is being held ND-SMC SENIOR FORMALRaffle tickets
cymbidium orchid corsages and AM I love her I want her,
at Holy Cross Hall (NO) by the lake. The selling at low cost -shipped directly from And that I do show. . on sale, tonight at Senior Bar, drawing at 
picnic will run from 1:00 to 4:30 and there grower so selling for $4.00! Wide Ludlow Falls Is being Invaded by cows!! midnight. 50 cents a piece -TAKE A will be plenty of food, drinks, music, and Moo!
selection of colors. Call AHAB 8865. She's the most sexiest creature, CHANCEl!! 
games to guarantee all a good time! So God did ever create.
bring some friends along and aet nto the John Frederic!< Fulcher· I know that I'm
For Sale: 23 112 inch men's bicycle. Her hair is dark red. Julie and Robin,
swing of spring this SaturdayT Also this Vixcount, Grandprix good for touring. My love for her will never abate. Looking forward to an evening of too young for soMeone as elderly as you,
Friday, April 6, from 7:30 to 10:00 there candlelight, and and but maybe we can work something out.
Phone 259-2014 wine, dancing
will be a springtime dance at Logan Her skin Is of white; homeade lasagna! Happy 22 ooople! Do you want to go to 
Center. Plenty of good music and dance, 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Satl, Sun 9-7 Be there no doubt that It glistens, Tom and Ed the dunes1 
so come boogre the night away and say L.& K.,
Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Road Amongst the starllghts.
goodbye to the winter. Decorating for the Jean
Niles 683-2888. Kathy Peartree­
dance will be on Thurs. night, April 5, 
Her eyes are sublime. "l'm a munchkln' " -Now you have
starting at 7:30 at logan Center. Any Her lips taste like wine. our own personal. Dave "Bonnie" Brehl would like to thank 
questions call Ed at 3444 or Walter at Oooooohh she Is so fine. rove, all those who showed their support by3066. Mom attending his Happy Hour last Friday.

Tickets 
It does grieve me to utter, Here's to the next reigning UMOC. Interested volunteers needed at Logan All you jerks who paid for the Dillon-Cubs FANS!I! Fan club membership will be
I must turn and shutter.
Center this Friday and Saturday to help vs. mets game April 7th please pick your For she has promised herself, limited to 5000Joln today! Tim and Steve BRUCE MCCAFFRE AND SUE babysit. Help needed all day on both days f--lng tix up In 315 Dillon GEORG EN:
to another.
due to the 22nd convention of the IARC Also there Is apprex. 20-25 t1x lUll Girt needs help! Nice, cute, and very I was going to wish you luck for Tues. meeting at Century Center. If interested available tor thot8 who would like to ltiH The Grateful Dead puts the Garno Bllty domestic female from Italian ethnic night, but obviously you didn't need It! I call 289-4831 , ext. 23 go. Dillon will be tailgating prtor to the Joel to shame. We want the dead at the background Is In search of a home. Her It was really great! game at Wrigley Field. Call Matt It 1710 ACC! village has been ravaged by chicken pax -Concerned Observer Typist
Gay students of Notre Dame/Saint or In 315 Dillon meaning she Is a homeless waif. If you Mary's Gay Information Une Thursday can find aplace In your heart for her -call 
MARIO RITZ RIRO: 
April 5 10 piiHIIIdnlght Hesy baby: the spaghetti hotllne, at 3079. 
Hi, how are you? Have fun! Friday April 6 10 pm-mldnlght Wanna go to the Glee Club Formal on YVES
Vote:
1870 Wanted April 28th. 
or write A Wild and Crazy Floridian. Torres NOAA ·Vote: Harrigan, Delgenio, Fry,
POBDX206 McCaughey
Going to Cleveland for Easter? Need Keough. Remember Accountfng doesn't
Saccaclo
riders? can leave as early as Wed. NOAA members: have to be dull!! afternoon. Call Mike at 3889. elect Brankin, Flaherty, Koch, and Wagner Hanigan Vote Friday. For NOAA. 
Working together for you!
Need ride to Cincinnati afternoon of April

Lost&Found 
12. Call Jim 1553 Has anyone seen Mary Kelly? If so, 
please call Dean Roemer. Weekend Retreat -There are still a few
Lost: Friday night at Guiseppe's-a gold 
openings for thls weekend's retreat with
Driving home to Fla. for Easter, Naed
heart-shaped lockt with an "s" engraved Sr. John Fitzgerald and Sr. Jane Pltz. For
riders, please call 1863 Bob and AI 
on it. Extreme sentimental value Info. Call 65ii.
Thanks for last Thursday night and nightattached. If found please call Susan 5427. 
Need to ride to Philly area for Easter and nlnht...Sorry for the Inconvenience 
...
Kate KllkU$kle! Hope you had a' greatbreak. Can leave Wed. p.m. Call1001 or but wevre sure vou'll "K~ on Rollin" 
Help! I lost my Hewlett Packard HP-33E next tim we'll know when it s "Time For 19th birthday. SlS
4+4350

calculator. Please call Andy at 272-7080 Us to Fly" Vlotet from BP-
Ride needed to Northern JerseyIN.Y.C. 2T's from farley
lost: Tl Business Analyst calculator. an1a can leave after Monday. call Lynne P.S. U. of I. in Southbend. My breakfast We're on vour trill. Ca11 us or eJse. 
Reward Call 8283 Oilton Mystery Lovers
neck Is still sore!
3193. 


--------~---~----------~~-------------------------..-----­

=====-norts 

Ray 

O'Brien 
Dissention, rumors -­yankees still the best 
The American League's Eastern Division will be hard-pressed to match last year's exciting ending, but still the existing rivalries make it the most focused-upon group in professional baseball. The Yankees will be the odds-on favorite again, which, despite Bowie Kuhn's concern for equality among teams, will leave the Commissioner smiling when attendance numbers role in. The A.L. East revolves around the businessmen in pinstripes and with good reason, as a talented New York squad steals the show again. 
Yankees 

Will Ron Guidry fold under the pressures of matching last year's unbelievable season? Will Regg1e Jackson break his neck m the outfield? Is Bucky Dent's marriage and career headed for the rocks ? Can Mickey Rivers find the love and affection he craves from Yankee fans: Will Luis Tiant die of old age? And has Billy Martin donned the pinstripes for the last time: ANSWERS: Not likely, maybe, yes, no, possibly, and yes. But none of it really matters in the standings, because the Yanks have pride in what they do best--play baseball. And none in this division can do that as well. 
Brewers 

A quiet team, few people realize the Brewers led the AL in hitting last y~ar (.276). So you figure if they can shore up the pitching staff they will be ready to make a run at the flag. The Brewers did just that, picking up Jim Slaton from the Tigers in the re-entry draft. Mike Caldwell proved he can pitch with the best as he carded 22 wins last year. That leaves Larry Sorenson and Bill Travers, who have been sharp so far this spring. Guys like Larry Hisle (34 homers), Sal Bando and Ray Fosse have the experience to help young studs like Paul Molitor, Robin Yount and Sixto Lezcano weather a pennant drive. 
Red Sox 

They had their chance and blew it. The Bosox are through as far as being a contender when the late months of summer roll around. Don Zimmer said goodbye to Bill Lee and Luis Tiant, and will now say hello to high-scoring games. The Red Sox have their typical strong eight hitters and no bench or mound help. Yaz will certamly contribute, but is too old to be the hero. Jim Rice has the talent to be the hero, but not the personality. Yankee-like rumors 
[continued on page 14] 

Thursday, April 5, 1979 -page 16 
Giants , Vida 
give Reds 
early 'blues' 

CINCINNATI (AP)-The San Francisco Giants, paced by Terry Whitfield's four hits, roughed U{> Torn Seaver for seven runs m the second inning and went on to beat the Cincinnati Reds 11-5 in the major league baseball season opener Wednesday. 
Vida Blue scattered nine hits and got ·the victory in the opener, which was officiated by amateur umpires and major league arbiter Paul Pryor, the only veteran ump not on strike. The left-handed pitcher struck out two and walked four. 
Other umpires picketed out­side Riverfront Stadium before the game, protesting salary and working conditions. 
Mike lvie, who won the start­ing first base job this spring from veteran Willie McCovey, capped an eight-run second inmng with a solo home run. Seaver gave up four earned runs and the Giants added three unearned runs and !vie's horner off reliever Paul Moskau in the second. 
Vida Blue, who pitched a creditable complete game, allowing just nine hits, wasn't happy that he'd let some runs slip away. 
[continued on page 14] 
Sowder Fund 
Fr. Bill Toohey has chal­lenged any undergraduate to a best-of-three-games in hand­ball, the loser to donate $50.00 to the Andy Sowder Memorial Fund. Challengers may come to Camrus Ministry Office, 103 Memonal Library. 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Wn·ter 
November 13, 1976... Remember? 
It' was cold, maybe 35 degrees, at Norre Dame. The sky was cloudy­there was snow in the air-and it was very windy. But nobody seemed to mind the weather Hell, midterms were over and Thanksgiving vacation was only a week away. 
I~ Oh yeah ... the football team was 
!i plaxing Alabama over at the 
Jf stadium. ~ Remember it now? I I If· so, you obviously recall how ' Notre Dame lost its starting quarterback at a time when no team should ever lose their starting quarterback-with 10 minutes left in the game and a three-point lead showmg on the scoreboard. 
I 

"Now playing quarte~back for Notre Dame, number szx, Rusty Lisch.'' 
"Do you spell that L-1-S-H?" inquired one confused sportswriter. 
The fellow typing the con~es~· s official play-by-play descnpuon didn't know. His entry reads ''Lesch now at quarterback for Notre Dame.'' It was no typo­graphical error, but excusable nevertheless. For Lisch, a sophomore from Belleville, Ill., had played a mere 14 minutes in his college career; all of which came at 
........
d A\ 
I, 
I 




Lisch gets second chance 

the tail end of Notre Dame romps over Northwestern (48-0) and Oregon (41·0). He started the season as the team's number three guarterback behind starter Rick Slager and GaryForystek and, quitefrankly, the last thing he expected to be doing that cOld November aftetnoon was playing against Alabama. 
But, with 9: 15 showing on the clock and the ball on his 43-yard line, there was Rusty Lisch faced with the responsibility of protecting a 21-18 Notre Dame lead. To do that, he knew, Notre Dame would have to move the football and pick up a few crucial first downs. This would use up precious seconds and, above all, keep the ball away from a potent Alabama offense, directed by All-American Jeff Rutledge. 
Notre Dame fans in the stadium and across America were watching,listening, perhaps sweating a bit ... and hopmg. 
Lisch didn't let them down. In fact, he made it look easy. On that first possession, it was third-and­five on the Irish 48 when Lisch, looking to pass but finding no one open, raced around end and picked up 21 yards. Dave Reeve tried a field goal, but it was short from the Alabama 31. 
Rutledge led the Crimson Tide down to the Notre Dame seven-yard line before Jim Browner {licked off a pass in the endzone with 4: 17 to play. The Tide's defense was mcredible, however, forcing a third­
and-15  from  Notre  Dame's  own  
15-yard line.  A passing situat ion?  
Obviously ...  

But Rusty Lisch ran ... once more. Twenty-one yards around a picture­perfect block thrown by Ken MacAfee, and Notre Dame had another first down. Ther. managed to hang onto the ball unti , with 2:12 left in the game, they had to punt. But Alabama could get no closer than their own 43 and the Irish took over with 43 seconds left to play. The game ended with Notre Dame on to,P 21-18, and it made the headhn'es on most of the country:s sportspages the next day. All of which, tncidentally, spelled tt 
L-1-S-C-H. 
With Slager still injured, Lisch started the next week against Miami and led Notre Dame to a 43-27 win over the Hurricanes. The Irish dropped their last one, 17-13, to a tough USC squad with Slager starting and Lisch coming off the bench to pass for 120 yards. A 20-9 win over Penn State in the Gator Bowl closed the book on 1977 and, with 18 of 22 St';lrters. returnin_g, things looked bnght mdeed for 1978. 
The pre-season outlook reported that Rusty Lisch was "the ~opcandidate to replace graduated RICk Slager at the quarterback spot,'' and, when the Irish kicked off against Pitt in the season-opener, number six was at the helm. But the outlook also warned that junior 
Joe Montana would be "Lisch's 
toughest competition for the 
posttion, '' and, after a loss to 
[contt"nued on page 15] 
_______...J 





