
-----------------~-------­
---------~-------­
' France Tomorrow -page 7
' ' 


VOL. XIV, NO. 44 
CJ~Ilf DOG 
With guns blazing 
Jet fighters scatter ·protesters 
La Paz, Bolivia (AP) -Two Bolivian air force jet fighters roared over downtown La Paz yesterday wtth their guns blazing, scattering students and workers who had gathered in a central plaza to protest the 4-day-old military regime. 
There were no immediate reports ofcasualties. It appeared that the pilots sought only to intimidate the civilians 10 San Francisco Plaza and did not fire directly at them. 
The plaza was also surrounded by about 20 tanks and armored cars, and one was heard ·firing a cannon shot. ­
San Francisco Plaza is five blocks from the 
presidential palace, headquarters of Col. Alber­
to Natusch, who declared himself £>resident after 
leading a coup against Bolivia's e1vilian govern­
ment last Thursday. 
A local report said the planes attacked the presidential palace, but journalists who later went to the palace found it to be untrue. 
The buzzing incident followed a night of bloody clashes between soldiers and anti-coup students and workers. 
Civilians building barricades on city streets Saturday night were attacked by troops who kept up ~unfire barrages for about five hours. The Boltvian Red Cross and the central hospital said at least 20 persons were killed and 40 wounded in that violence. 
A broadcast communique issued yesterday by Natusch described Saturday night's bloody crackdown and the jet flights Sunday as part of a ''cleanup'' operation. 
The warplanes struck at midday yesterday 
Hayward defends naval programs in address to NROTC students 
By Stephen Sharp Staf!Reporter 
The Navy put up a better fight off the field than on this weekend when it defended college ROTC programs, in­cluding Notre Dame's. 
Representing the tof brass was the Chief of Nava Opera­tions, Admiral T. B. Hayward, the highest ranking officer in 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 19.79
an independent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
the Navy. In his Saturday last 33 centuries, Hayward morning address to 250 NROTC said. "Without good, trained students Hayward stressed the leadership, airplanes don't fly, Navy's need for college-trained ships don't steam, and weapons leaders. Without them, in 2 don't fire.'' years the U. S. Navy will lose its Ironically, midshipmen and last advantage over the Sov­NROTC students learn how to iets---superior technology. fire weapons with the hope that 
they will never have to useHayward spoke in the Mem­them. Janice Buxbaum, theorial Library's auditorium. 
Naval Academy's student rep­
''In the last 33 years, the complexity of naval warfare has 
[continued on page 9]
increased more than ever in the 
In Tehran 


Angry mob storms US embassy 
(AP)-A mob of Iranian students overran U.S. Marine guards in a three-hour struggle yesterday and invaded the American Embassy in Tehran, seizing dozens ofstaffmembers as hostages, Tehran Aadio reported. They demanded that the United States send the exiled shah back to Iran for trial, the radio said. 
No serious injuries were reported. Tehran Radio said as many as 100 hostages were being held, but an Iranian Foretgn Ministry spokesman said he believed it was fewer than 45--about 35 Americans and seven or eight Iranians. 
One of the ·hostages is a Notre Dame alumnus. The State Department declined to identify the individual, but said there has been no violence so far during the incident. 

about an hour after students and workers began 
rebuilding street barricades. 
The jets could be seen swooping low over the 
plaza and opening fire. One source who has 
followed the military situation here closely and 
was near the action said they made a half-dozen 
passes and ap£>eared to fire as they angled 
upward, indicat10g they did not intend to shoot 
those in the plaza. 
Earlier yesterday Natusch declared martial law and press censorship throughout Bolivia as r speculation :tnounted that dissident military units were planning a counter-coup against him. 
Well-informed sources said yesterday that the 
police in the eastern city of Cochabamba, 
Bolivia's third-largest, had declared themselves 
in rebellion against the Natusch government. 
The report could not otherwise be confirmed. 
The national labor confederation called a 
general strike Thursday in protest of what its 
leader called the "fascist" military takeover. 
The strike has since been joined by the national 
businessmen's group. 
The civilian president deposed in the Natusch 
coup, Walter Guevara, was still in hiding with 
his entire Cabinet. 
Bolivia has had some 200 coups in its 154 years 
as a republic. Gen. David Padilla, who took 
power in a coup last November, set the stage for 
democratic elections earlier this year. But none 
of the presidential candidates received a 
majority, and the selection of a president was 
turned over to Congress, which chose the 
68-year-old Guevara. 
The spokesm-an, who asked contacted by telephone from not to be identified, said an New York, said a Scandinavian estimated 200 or 300 students ambassador in Tehran would were involved. act as a mediator ''to try to 
The Tehran Radio broad-convince the students to get out casts, monitored in London, of the compound.'' He said an said the embassy's Marine Iranian Moslem religious leader ~uards hurled tear-gas can-also was reportedly trying· to tsters but were unable to hold talk the invaders into leaving. back the waves of students. The spokesman said he was None of the broadcasts men-unsure of the identities of the tioned weapons other than tear _two mediators. gas. The State· Department said 
In Washington, State Depar-in Washington ..t~e Iranian tment spokesman Jack Touhy government had gtven ass_ur­said it was e~timated 59 per-ances that our peopl~, be10g sons were be10g held captive held are safe and well. and there was no firm evidence . Ju~t hours after the embassy the invaders were armed. He 10v~swn, seven dem~>n~trators said a State Department work-cha10ed -th~mselvc;s mstde the ing group was set up to monitor Statue of Ltberty 10 New York the situation and added the Harbor to protest the ousted 
U.S. government would have 00 Shah ., Mohammed. Reza immediate comment the Pahlavt s prese~ce m. ~ew
00 
demand that the shah be retur-York, where he 1s hospttaltzedned to Iran for cancer treatment. After 3111 · _hours authorities cut the chains 
Some unconfirmed reports and took them into custody. said the hostages were blind-The Tehran broadcasts, some folded and handcuffed, but the not clearly received, said the Foreign Ministry spokesman students were motivated by a denied this, saying the embassy "message" from the leader of takeover was "a very peaceful [ra_n's Islamic revolution, the exercise. They are dealing with Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. them very nicely." The Moslem clergyman yes-
Asked whether the students terday once again denounced were armed, he said only he the United States for allowing had heard no reports that they the deposed shah into the 
were. 
The spo_kesman, who was [continued on PaRe 51 
Park assassination sparks international reactions 
by Mary Fran Callahan StaffReporter 
South Korean President Park Chung-Hee's October 26th as­s_assination has sparked reac­twns from international ex­per~s, military personnel, and natlve Koreans. 
Like a scene out of a Shake­s~earean play, ·a diplomatic dmner party ended in a blood­bath when KCIA chief Kim Jae ~yu suddenly opened fire, kill­mg Park and several of his body guards. Within hours of the news, the Carter administration reaffirmed its military commit­ment to South Korea by placing 32,000 ground troops on high alert. 
Last Tuesday evening, the wire services disclosed that the United States Navy's 7th Fleet command ship USS Blue Ridge paid a ''good will'' visit to Pusan--parading by the major Korean port. 
Commending the United States for literally sticking to its guns to protect South Korea, Professor George Brinkley, from the department of Govern­ment and International Studies, commented,' 'The U.S. has done the right thing. In 1950, war broke out because the United States pulled out.'' 
A chief petty officer of the United States Navv. who re­turned just late last summer 
from a three year assignment in 
South Korea, called the naval 
n;1an~~ver a "normal opera­
two. YMC Gary Johnson said 
that such a demonstration of 
military support should not be a 
cause of concern among Ameri­
cans. "It just lets people know 
we are there and we are ready 
to c~ry through with our 
commtttment, "Johnson ex­
plained. 
Nine natives of Korea are 
currently _studying at Notre 
Da~e. Ratsed tn a society that 
cauuously censors the news 
media in order to prevent any 
infiltration from North Korea 
the students agreed to com~ 
ment on the situation but 
requested that their names be withheld. 
"No one is worried," one of the Korean students commented, as long as the U.S. is there.'' The students all agreed that whileNorth Korea is a viable threat, it is not an immediate one if South Korea is assured Western support. 
Johnson paralelledthe student concensus by saying that the mere presence of concrete mili­tary support is enough to prevent ~ confrontation. 
Th~oughout his_ sixteen year prestdency, Prestdent Park de­veloped a reputation for exer­
[cont£nued on page 5] 


... 


NeWs in brief 
Monday, November 5, 1979 -page 2 

Indiana students follow Khomeini 's advice 
Iranian students at Indiana Universities are studying more and protesting less since the ousting of ~ohamm~d Reza Shah Pahlavi officials say. Demonstrations agamst the government halted on. Indi~na ':amp~ses this fall, and the only public display of dissatisfaction wi_th Ayat~llah Ruhollah Khomeini' s strict pronouncements are m occasiOnal letters to campus newspapers. Iranian students say thev are more concerned with getting good ~cades. 
Taiwanese dedicate 

nuclear power plant 
IBIPEI, Taiwan (AP) -Taiwan yesterday celebrated the com_Pletion of its\ first nuclear power plant, designed. and equipped by American companies. At a de?ication ceremony, Economic Minister Chang Kuang-Shih said the plant reflected the economic strength of this island of more than 17 million people. · 

Grand Dragon to file constitutional rights suit 
KOKOMO Ind. (AP) -The leader of Indiana's Ku Klux Klan says he plans to file suit in federal court, charging that his constitutional rights were violated by Kokomo officials. Gr~d D~agon Bobby Scott said his suit against the town's pollee chtef and mayor may be ftled this week and he plans to get permission to demonstrate in Koko~o before the
year's end. --­
Midway Airlines ticket rates go sub-dollar 
CHICAGO (AP) -Hundreds of people lined up at the Midway Airlines' ticket counter over the weekend to try to get on flights to three Midwestern cities for less than a dollar. 
The airline has just opened for business at Midway Airport on the city's southwest side. To celebrate, the carrier offered flights to cleveland for 33 cents, Detroit for 28 cents, and Kansas City for 37 cents through the weekend. Normally those fares would be $33 to Cleveland, $28 to Detroit and $37 to Kansas City. 

Weather 

Sun~y today,_ with a hig~ in the low 60s. Increasing cloudmess tomght and a shght chance for rain tomorrow. Low tonight low 40s. High tomorrow in the upper 50s. 
4:30 p.m. PUBUC LECTURE "a buddhist approach to technology & development," by a. t. ariyaratne, founder of the saravodaya shramadana movement in sri lanka. sponsored by int'l studies, economics, theology, sociology, anthropology & .the o'neill chair of education for justice. GALVIN AUD. 
1

5:15 p.m. DINNER french club, organizational meeting 
following. all are encouraged to attend. sponsored by the modern languages dept. 2ND FLOOR, SOUTH DINING : HALL. 
6:45 p.m. ROSARY daily at GROTTO. 
9-10 p.m. RADIO "talk it up," with wsnd, _am 64. su~ject will be nuclear energy by de. Iucey & de. gdbet. call mat 6400. 
10-11 p.m. MEE11NG)discussion and reflections on christ:' sponsered by the fellowship of christian athletes." DILLON HALL tHAPEL. all welcome. ­
'··· 
I 

In Utah 

Hearings on MX missile begin 
CEDAR CITY, Utah (APl -A hause subcommittee opens hearin~s today on the Carter admimstration's profosal to build the controversia $33 bil­lion MX mobile missile system in Utah and Nevadlll. 
In the meantime, Utah Gov. Scott Math~son says whe;" he 
suggested his state to President
Carter as a site, he had no idea of the enormous potential im­pact from the project. To assess that impact on both states, the House subcommit­tee will hear testimony from Air Force Secretary Hans Mark, Matheson, Rep. Dan Marriott, R-Utah, and a stein~; of govern­ment and private witnesses. Matheson sent, a telegram to President Carter last spring ur~ing him to consider Utah as a site for deployment of the MX system, which would involve 200 missiles -each deployed on its own "race track" -spread across 24,000 square miles of Great Basin desert. "What has happened since that time is that the ·enormity of 
Eagan to speak 
There will be a meeting on "Landlord-Tenant Relations" Wednesday night at 7 p.m. in the off-campus alcove of LaFortune. Professor William Eagan will speak. 

the impact of the MX has begun roads and facilities at Vanden­
to settle down on us," Mathe-berg Air Force Base, Calif., for 
son said yesterday. "No one I test firing over the Pacific 
have talked to -no one -had Ocean in early 1983. 
envisioned the scope of the Defense officials say they will socio-economic impacts.'' ask Congress next year for $112 The MX was approved for million for buildings and road development by Carter in June construction for the Utah and and the Air Forc_e _already h;as (continued on page 4]
asked for $57 mtlhon to budd 

..,.____...,;;________________,..._.., 

need prL"'lting in a hurry·? 
100 -11 x 17 posters only $10.00 203 N .. Main South Bend 2'd'J-6977 the wiz of the printing biz! 


THE GREAT ESCAPE. 
You dream about it at night... the day you can close your books, get out of this place and forget about studying for awhile. 
Well, the Great Escape is here ...this weekend, with Greyhound. Escape to the country or go see some friends. Just decide which escape route you want and we'll do the rest. 
We'll get you out of town and away from the books so you can clear your head. It doesn't cost much and it'll do you a world of good. 
So make the Great Escape this weekend ... with Greyhound. 
To Chl:r Det CIIVIIInd Plttsbu~h MIIWIU •  One-Wav Rou~ltlp Depart $9.15 $17.40 4:50p.m.$19.40 $36.90 10:20 a.m. $24.90 47.35 11:50a.m. $37.05 $70.40 8:20a.m. $15.25 529.00 9:45a.m. (Prices subject to change.)  
- \..  287-6524  
~­ 



GO 6REYIIOIIIJ 


Anive 
6:55p.m. 5:35p.m. 7:35p.m. 8:35p.m. 2:15p.m. 
... _ 
•z -­
-r<MI 


~. 
•4•­

The Observer Monda_y, Novembet; 5-,-..1979 -page .3_ 
Pinball runs strong 
on campus 
Over bloodbath 
Leaders call for federal inquiry 
by DavidL. Langford Associated Press Writer 
The bloodbath at an anti-Ku Klux Klan rally in Greensboro, N.C., was a natural outgrowth of unabated recent Klan violence, Southern civil rights leaders say, calling for an immediate federal inquiry. 
Over the past 18 months, the various organizations operating in the guise of the Hooded Order have become increas­ingly militant, inciting violence 
reminiscent of the mid-1960s in
Decatur and Selma, Ala., and Tupelo and Okolan, Miss. . There is no proof that Satur­
day's assault on a "Death to the 
Klan" rally in Greensboro.. thql:. 
left four dead and 10 wounded 
was the work of KKK, and 
leaders o~ the local k!averns 
(groups) In the area said they
h d h · d · h · 
a not I.ng to o Wit u.
Two different Klan leaders
said yesterday the ambush was 
the work of Nazis, but there was 
no proof of that either. 
Nonetheless, Greensboro 
police said at least some of the 
12 men ·ailed on murder 
charges--all from towns outside 
of Greensboro--admitted they 
were members of the Klan, and 
civil ri&hts organizations want 
somethmg done about them. 
state~~~~~~~~.commander of the
unit National Socialist Party of America, said one of the jailed men, Roland Wayne Wood of Winston-Salem, was the Forsyth County unit leader for the Nazis. Covington said the other 11 jailed men were "white rights advocates" and he recognized some names among them as Klansmen. 


-~.......mO'S HAIR DESIGN 
It's wotth paaalng many sh 
:D 
z 
·ND' 
1ft 
" 
5i 

ST.RD•.23 

1~1 . State_ ~o~d -~~-­
by Tom Koegel StaffReporter 

-The electronic games mania is running strong throughout the campus, aqd every electronic beep uttered by the machines is music to the ears of the organizations lucky enough to have game rooms. 
Tom Neiman, Director of Mar­keting for the Pinball Division of the Bally Co., the largest manufacturer of pinball ma­chines, reports that 1978 was a record year with sales of $98 
million,  and he sees  1979 as  
another industry.  good  year  for  the  

''Pinball is basically a reces­

sion proof industry," he stated. "Itwas first created during the Depression, and the manufac­turers of the first machines were businessmen who had lost their fortunes in the initial part of the Depression.'' 
From a survey of the campus, it would appear that Neiman's predictions for his industry hold true for the grassroots level as well as the manufacturers. The stream of players at LaFor­tune's poolroom is constant throughout the day, and even . the relatively high cost of 
"We're •remindedof days 15 years ago when the Klan attempted to rule social conduct by fear and violence," said Steve Suitts, executive director of the Atlanta-based Southern Regional Council, which mon­itors civil rights and economic progress in the Southeast. 
A shootout between Klansmen and black demon­!'\trators on the street of Decatur, Ala., last summer left 

Concer:nt·n~a attacks 
6 


Stud t d:. p
en S ISCUSS. reven 
.. -....J ,.., · 
b~ Pam Degnan Senzor Staf!Reporte~ 
The Saint Mary's Student 
A_ssembly met last night and discussed two possible sites for th~ c.onstruction of a security b~ddms on campus. This d1scuss10n w!ls prompted by student reaction to recent at­tacks that have occurred on both campuses. 
Some student representatives 
suggested that the building be 
constructed within a few yards 

~~~~~~m~~~=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
college. However, a majority of I 
the Assembly pointed out that this would only result in unnec­

The~ 
essary traffic problems. The other site suggested was 

SU Social Commission
the clearing near the railroad tracks. This suggestion was 



regrets to announce
met with a more favorable reaction. "I think this site would be the most ideal in that it wouldn't create traffic tie­

r 
N 
271-1875 



two blacks and two whites wounded, but no one was prosecuted. 
There are many different fragmented and splintered organizations using the initials KKK, and all are secretive about their true strength. 
The leaders of three of the most visible Klans were not available for comment yester­day about the Greensboro shootings. -­
today's electronic games does not seem to deter the players. Addicts rush to LaFortune and other game rooms located in the halls both to play the more traditional pinball games as 
well as the extremely popular 
electronic games, such as Bal-IJI!!!!!!!ll!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!i!!!!llll 
ly's cult-classic, "Space Inva­
ders." And while many of the 
games remain the same, the 
price has skyrocketed. Some of 
the newer machines, such as Bally's latest effort, "Para­gon,'' pay for innovations such as computer sound and extra­large size with costs of 25 cents for a three-ball game, as oppo­sed to the older machine's 25 cents for two five-baH games. 
The extra added attractions . are obviously paying off for Bally with greater sales and the operators with larger cash flows. It is difficult to deter-. mine however, because those in charge of the game rooms are reticent about revealing their profits. 
The profits have to be fairly substantial on all levels. The gaJl}es industry is run on four different levels. The manufac­turer sells machines to a whole­5aler, who in turn sells them to 'iUl operator, who places them in various game rooms. For lilowing the operator to use 
s Als e ld 't h t
up . o, w wou n ave o 
do an thin to the land that would ydetrfct from the beautyf th camp s" A bl 
o e u an ssem y
member remark~d.
Th ( 'll b 
ese sugges Ions w_I . e ~rought befo~e the .Admtmstra­tton for .~on~tderanon and. a.p­pro~al. I wdl tal~ to A.dm1ms-: trauon about posstble sttes b':lt you must remember that thts , 
Itype of measure has beeiJ dis~ussed for the past 3 year~;A~tton. has. ~eet;~ really slow • satd .Pta Tngtam, student body prestdent. 
their space, the game rooms Most game rbom manaJ-ers "usually get a 40 or ~0 per cent were reluctant to speak ab, ut cut from the net," according to precise figures. Br. Gorch, Neiman. "It is an excellent manager of LaFortune, could deal for them, because all they not comment as to the percen­have to furnish is the electrict-t. ' LaFortune receives or to 
~ ·:' j{continued on page 4) 

.. 
. . 

The Observer 


CONCERTS WEST PRESENT 






EAGLES 
THE LONG RUN 
TOUR 79 
•••••••••••••••e•••••••••••••••n•••••••••••a•••••••a•aottitaolaitiiieote 
• 
Don Henley· Gle.n11 Frey Don Felder· Joe Uizlsh Tilnothy B. Sch11zit 
Friday Nov. 16 8pm Notre Dame ACC All seats reserved front stage $12.50 
Rear Stage 10&$7.50 tickets o~ sale ACC Box Office 9am to 5pm also usual ACC outlets and,. 
River City RecordsStores in So. Bend and Mishawaka 
Monday, November 5, 1979 -page 4 
• • • Pinball 

[continued from page 3] 

the amount taken in, but he did say the money went to the University. 
Grace's food sales manager John Julian, confirmed a 50-50 percentage but would not com­ment on total intake. Grace President Curt W esseln did say that the amount taken in was "small in comparison to other dorms such as Planner." He stated that what money was received went towards general hall expenses. 
Planner President Don Cian­cao stated that the take was 
• down slightly this year to about $150 a week, which is directed to the Planner treasury. The mone>: is used for any game room 1n1provements needed or for general usage. 
In spite of the tremendous amounts of money involved players need not worry that th~ machines are set to ''gyp'' them out ~f their free games. The machmes are set in the factory to give free games 35 per ce~t of the time, according to Netman. And, while the 
operatorscan make slight adjust­ments m the positions of bum­pers and flippers to make the game more difficult, "it would be a self-defeating tactic be­cause surveys show that games that are seen as being too difficult will simply not be played," Nieman said. "And there is no way that the operators can tamper with the' function that makes a machine match the player's score be­cause it is set 10 the factory to randomly match one-tenth of the time.'' Such a match rewards the player with a free game. 
Bally's latest effort at pinball design is a good example of what the industry's future ef­forts will be like. "Paragon" is a pinball machine which i~ roughly twice the size of the usual machine and is replete with various buzzes, rings and clicks, as well as four flippers for the player to control. Bally has perfected the technology of separating a player from his money by incorporating the capacity to give 5 games for Susan B. Anthonr dollars. And, as the last bat trickles out some side hole, the machine salutes the player with an anthem of trickling tones, per-


The F-16. A vital part of the free world's air Our representatives have already been on defense capabilities and one of many exciting your campus this fall. If you did not have an high-technology programs at General opportunity to talk to us, and would like to team Dynamics. These long range projects at our 15 more about the F-16 and our other advanced operating divisions across the country provide high-technology programs, send your resume you diverse career paths in to: Corporate Director, College Relations, Telecommunications, Electronics, Data GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION, Cf-.421 Products, Shipbuilding, Aerospace, Tactical Pierre Laclede Center, St. Louis, MO 63105. Weaponry and many other fields. An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 

GENERALDVNAMIC:S 
haps intended to comtort a loser in his disgrace. 
"Space Invaders," which is produced by a Bally company subsidiary, Midway, "is more than any other game, and an example of how poJ?ular a game can become," satd Nei­man. 
At any time that a game room is open you can see the ''Inva­ders" addicts playing the game which they have made their own. They sit in front of a video screen, attackin~ row upon row of advancing altens, which are mindlessly attempting to des­troy the player's bases. They watt for large ships which streak across the top of the screen, for if they can hit them, the bonus points are consider­able. The end is inevitable, for the best a player can do is stay alive; he can never actually win a free game. But players endlessly feed the machine quarters, and the aliens march towards oblivion in the hope that one of their number will either shoot the players last base or land upon him, thereby ending the game. 
The fascination can be some­thing of a mystery to those unimtiated in the game. Ad­dicts can be seen at all hours playing, waiting to play, or just watching. When they are involved in the game, they become virtual automatons, conscious only of the throbbing heartbeat-like sound of the aliens as they appro.ach . 
• • . MX 
[continued from page 2] 
Nevada sites, aiming at bring­
ing the project to partial combat 
readiness by 1986. 
The MX is intended to replace 
the nation's aging system of 
Minuteman intercontinental 
ballistic missiles. Defense of­
ficials have admitted that the 
Minuteman missile silos will be 
increasingly vulnerable in com­
ing years to more accurate and 
more powerful Soviet missiles. 
The MX concept would allow 
the Air Force to hide its 
powerful missiles in hardened 
shelters that could stand up to 
all but a direct hit from a Soviet 
missile. 
The shelters will be scattered 
around the "racetrack," and 
the MX will be shuttled among 
the various shelters. 
Students injured 
•


zn car 
Four Notre Dame students 
were injured in a car accident 
on Twyckenham Ave. Saturday 
night when returning from the 
Lyons hall formal. All of the 
students are in satisfactory 
condition, and three were treat­
ed and released from St. J os­
eph's Hospital that night. 
Chris Tassone of Fenton Mi. remains in satisfactory condi­tion at the Hospital and will require surgery for facial lacer­ations. Patty Wille, of Alton, Ill., Barbara Corbett of Pitts­burgh, PA. and John Falgiani, 
Jr. of Boardman, OH., were 
treated and released from St. Joseph's with minor injuries. 


The Observer Monday, November 5, 1979 -page5 
Observer Typists
• • • Assassination 

[continued from paf!.e 1] 
ctsing an aggressive domestic 
policy which provided for a 
national curfew from midni&ht 
to 5 a.m., mandatory conscnp­
tion, political imprisonment for 
overr opposition, and strict 
regulation of the media. One 
student called the national mor­
ale a feelin~ of ''latent dissent'' 
which penodically surfaced 
through massive demonstra­
tions. 
However, from his stay in 
Korea, Officer Johnson noted 
that Park's attitude toward his 
people resembled that of a 
stc;rn ,father . protecting his 
chtld. Park dtd what he did to 
prevent infiltration by the North 
Korea~s. He was clearly 
protectmg the people, not op­
pressing them," Johnson said. 
In ad?ition to possessing a 
reputation for harsh mandates, 
Park --according to the Kore­
ans--has adeptly solidified the 
nation's economy. · 
"I am sad that he was killed," 
a Korean student commented. 
"He developed our economy. 
College· Bowl 
•

orgaruzes tomorrow 
There will be an organizational meeting tomorrow for all stu­dents and faculty members interested in participating in this year's College Bowl, at Notre Dame. The meeting will be held in the 2D room on the second floor of LaFortune. 
The meeting will begin at 7 
p.m. Application forms will be dis­
tributed and the game's rules and regualtions will be dis­cussed. Students are allowed to sign up in teams or individual­ly. An intramural competition will d'leri be set up, aod a team 
will be chosen to repre~ent • 
Notre Dame in interscholastic 
competition. 
The College Bowl also needs students to work in implement­ing the intramural competition. Students not interested in play­in~ the competition but who sull wish to be involved with College Bowl should contact Edward Bylina at 8905. 
People are also encouraged to 
submit quiz questions. These 
questions may be submitted to 
the Director of Student Activi­
ties' Office on the first floor of 
LaFortune. 
The registration deadline for 
College Bowl is Monday, Nov­
ember 12. Practice sessions 
and competition will follow soon 
afterwards. 
College Bowl is a quiz show 
involving knowledge and quick 
recall. In last year's competi­
tion, Notre Dame won the 
Region IX Championship and 
reached the national quarter­
finals, losing to Cornell. 
Before he was ruler, the coun­try was not like it is now. He did many good things." 
Statistices indicate that South Korea has taken long fiscal strides over the last two dec­ades. The country now exports everything from televisions to its rice crop. South Korea is also not experiencing the infla­tionary spiral the United States is now undergoing. 
However, the political situa­tion still remains unclear. The interim governmental officals appointed last week were close­ly aligned with Park and his policies. Thus, though a more liberal government may be desired, it may not be imple­mented. According to Brinkley ''The situation,is not a clear-cu~ one yet. To predict that the domestic policy will become more lenient 1s not possible right now.'' 
On behalf of the armed forces, Johnson claimed the military does not want to precipitate any incidents. "We hope we never have to lock and load,'' Johnson said. ''Military mefi are the most peaceful men in the world; we have to get shot first.''. 
Attempting to project an image of political stability, the South Korean /overnment quickly appointe an acting president. All sources con­tacted agreed that the interim government appears to have South Korea under control and if the government can thwart internal chaos, then the chances of a confrontation be­ing sparked with North Korea appear bleak. 
Ctting the remoteness of an immediate confrontation, Brinkley said, 'The ~ussians 
WHC 
• 


razses 
dOnations·-~·' 
The World Hunger €oalition (WHC) raised $68.27 at last week's "Quarter Night," WHC Fund Raiser Director Mary Ann Harris announced. This money will be donated to Mdukashami, a school for poor children in South Afri<;a. 

Team 
•
organtZes
•



meetmg 
An organizational meeting of the Notre Dame Varsity Fenc­ing Team will be held tonight at 
7:30 p.m. in the fencing room of the ACC. All interested stu­dents are welcome. 


Attention: St. Mary's Students Tutors Needed 
Contact Saint Mary's College Volunteer Service at 5616 
and the Chinese would have too much to lose. by s~pporting North Korea m an mvasion-­and North Korea couldn't at­rae~ without total assurance of thel! supp.ort. China and the Sovtet Umon do not want to undermine detente.'' 
• • • Mob 
[continued from Pf28.P 1] country. Pahlavi, living in Mexico, went to New York last month on a special medical visa and underwent ~allbladder sur­gery and tesung. Doctors recomended he stay in the United States for six months to a year for drug treatment of his cancer. 
Khomeini and his supporters have repeatedly accused the United States and other coun­tries of fomenting rebellion against his anti-Western, anti­
communist troubled Kurdish, minorities. 
regime, which is by unrest among Arabic and other 
~ 

Meeting Tonight 6: 30 ptn 

LOYOLA UNIVERSITY The Graduate School of Business Offers An Evening MBA 

• 
12 course program for undergraduate business administration majors 

• 
16 course program for undergraduate non-business administration majors 

• 
Classes meet once a week. Study full or part-time. 

• 
Enter any quarter in Winter, Spring, Summer or Autumn. 

• 
Applications are now being accepted for the Winter 1979-1980 and Spring 1980. 

• 
School Representative will be on campus November 13th 


~ 
LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
820 North Michigan Avenue 
Chicago, Illinois 60611. 

TELEPHONE: 312/670-3140 
~ We are an equal opportunity educator/employer 
~ MBA ADMISSION FORUMS ~ 
•• For people who want ••1 careers in management: 1 
I How to select I :the MBA program I 5 that is i 5 best for you i 
• Come to the MBA Admission Forums and meet representatives from • all of the MBA schools listed below. Pick up the catalogs and literature • 
• you want. Discuss the MBA program that is best for you. • Get advice on financial assistance for veterans, minority students, etc. • • Attend special Daily Workshop Sessions with Admissions Directors, • 
Placement Officers, MBA Employers, and recent MBA Graduates to learn • 
• 
how the MBA Degree can help you q_ualify for the career in management • that you want. The Forums are presented as a public service by the • • Graduate Management Admission Council and the • 

Association of MBA Executives Inc. A nominal-$2 registration fee per day • 

• 
covers everything. Dial telephone number below. for more details. 


• Of Special Interest To: • 
• • The Working Executive • • 
• • College Graduates Seeking Positions in Management • • 
• Women College Graduates Returning To Work • 
~ • College Students Who Will Graduate in 1979-'80 • 
I 

•• Holiday Inn Mart Plaza •• 
• 350 North Orleans Street • Chicago • (312) 753-0898 • • Drop in any time you wish during the hours listed below: •I Friday I Saturday I 
NOON to 7 P.M. 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. • • November 9 November 10 
• PARTICIPATING GRADUATE SCHOOLS OF MANAGEMENT • 
• American Graduate School of International Management/American School ol Management • 
American University/Atlanta University/Babson College/Boston University/Bradley University • 
• Carnegie-Mellon University/Case Western Reserve University/Columbia University/Cornell University 
• Dartmouth College: Amos Tuck School/Duke University/Emory University/George Williams College • Golden Gate University/IMEDE Management Development Institute: Switzerland/Indiana Univers>ty • 
• 
Keller Graduate School of Management/Kent State University/Lake Forest College 

• louisiana State Universily/Loyola University: Chicago/Michigan State University • Monterey Institute of Foreign Studies/New York University/Northeastern University • 

• 
Northwestern University/Ohio University/Pace University/Pennsylvania State University 


• Purdue University/Rollins College/Roosevelt University/Rosary College • Rutgers. The State University of New Jersey/Simmons College • 
• Southern Illinois University: Carbondale/Southern Methodist University/Stanford University 
• State University of New York: Albany/Texas A&M University/Texas Christian University • Tulane University/University of Arizona/University of California: Berkeley/University of Central Florida • 
• University of Chicago/University pf Denver/University of Georgia/University of Illinois: Chicago Circle 
• University of tllinois: Urbana/University of Miami/University of Michigan/University of Minnesota • University of North Carolina: Chapel Hill/University of Notre Dame/University of Oregon • 
• University of Pittsburgh/University of Rochester/University of San Francisco • University of South Carolina/University of Southern California/University of Texas: Arlington • University of Virginia: Colgate barden School/University of Wisconsin: Milwaukee • 
• Vanderbilt University/Wake Forest University/Washington University: St. Louis/Xavier University • Yale University 
----------~ ~~--­
The Observer 

In Concert 

The Gary Burton/Chick Coraa Six Year Reunion 
November 6 Morris Civic Auditorium 
In November, 1972, vibraharpist Gary Burton and pianist Chick Corea recorded Crystal Silence, an album Billboard accurately predicted "would prove a classic for its revelation of the more delicate, contemplative strengths of these men." 
Since the recording, Chick and Gary have occasionally taken off time from their busy careers to play duet concerts, and almost six years to the day after recording Crystal Silence, have finally made their "follow-up": 
Duet. 


Also available: 
Gary Burton 
Times Square Crystal Silence The New Quartet Seven Songs For Quartet and Chamber Orchestra Ring Hotel Hello Matchbook Dreams So Real Passengers 
Chick Corea 
A.R.C. Piano Improvisations Vol. I Circle Piano Improvisations Vol. II Return to Forever Crystal Silence 
On ECM records and tapes~ 
* 
Manulactured and distributed by Warner Bros~ Records Inc. 



AVAILABLE AT 
JUST FOR THE RECORD 100 CENTER COmPLEX miSHAWAKA 

... 
<>, 1.. •• •. • ·, ·, ~

.. 
. '· 

Monday, November 5, 1979 -page 6 
• • . Pinball 
lfoatinued_ {rom page 4] 

The game was originated in game, but then r just finish up Ja{>an by the Tako company and by playing it straight.'' qutck.ly became what Neivan Others use the system to role calls a ''cultural phenomenon.'' up huge point totals. The 
More than 300,000 units of the machine only registers scores of game have been sold, and it has up to 9,999 but this total is triggered a shortage of the frequently exceeded, at which 100-yen coins used to play it. point the machine starts at zero 
again. Many break 10,000"Stores and restaurants have before their first laser base isbeen closed, cleared out, and shot.
filled with nothing but 'Inva­This rather bizarre world hasders' machines," Neiman said. 
another curious point. It is''There is even a hit single virtually entirely male. Whe­record about a man who wan­ther this reflects on the appealders from place to place playing of the game, or the sense of the'Space Invaders.' " female population is debatable.
The American production After all is said and done, it is rights were purchased by Mid­difficult to pin down exactlyway, and it has proven nearly as why "Space Invaders" haspopular in America. Players such tremendous popularity. It~h~ ~ arde hooked cant spend apparently satisfies some inner 
..........en ous amounts o money 
desire which is inexpressablewhen they go on "Invaders" other than by saying "It's fun."
binges and try to better records as well as their own personal bests. 
Players have developed an 



Ariyaratne
elaborate system for enhancing their scores. UFO-like mother ships hover over the top of the 
to lecture 
screen at. the exact intervals, and players carefully count their shots so as to maximize 


on Buddhism

their bonus points when they shoot. . A.T. Ariyaratne, president and founder of Sarvodaya
There has even been a division Shramadana Movement in Sriinto two separate groups of Lanka (formerly Ceylon) willthought on the plavone group lecture on "A Buddhist Ap­studiously counts and calcu­proach to Technology and De-­lates to maximize their point velopment" today at 4:30 p.m.
values, while the other decries in the Galvin Auditorium. 
this and calls for a pure playing Sarvodaya Shramadana is aof the game without these grassroots movement which has artificial devices. 

Its philosophical basis in Budd­''I don't like the system (as it hism and the teachings of 
is known in "Invaders" circles) Mahatma Gandhi. Founded in says Jack Ryan, who first 1958, today it is composed of started playing in a movie over 500,000 volunteers reach­theatre where he worked. "I ing over 1,200 villages in Sri use it in th~ beginning of the Lanka.
..••....•....................., 
: TONY'S SHOE SHOP • • repa1r• any kind of leather goods, • 
: also zippers , shoe repairing, polishing, : 
·: Orthopedic Specialist, quick service, : : reasonable price : • Notre Dame Campus 283-1144 • 
: Open 8to 5 Mon.-Fri. and 8to 1 Sat. : 
~................................. 

wotld hunget coalition Is sponsetlng a tetteat 
nov•~t9-11 

anyone lnteteated Ia welcome to otl ed 

fot mote lnfotmotlon contact chotlle b10wn ot voletle evona 
don't miss ltllll 
~w·tiaf:" I.AND[_ORD"TENANT................ 
RELATION MEETING when: WEDNESDAY NOV.7 

7:00 o.m. 

.where: OFF-CAMPUS ALCOVE ;who: PROF. EAGAN AUTHOR OF ~ LANDLORD AND TENANT-~ ~ RIGHTS AND BESPOSIBILITIE$ ~ 
: .........................................., •...........,...,...._.~············· .. 


'···-~·. 










Community Service and Theology 


Features 
ND/SMC Today -France TontorroUJ 
Beth Healy 

For approximately seventy-five students, the year's language class serves a much greater purpose than fulfilling requirements. Daily at 3:25 p.m., the Notre Dame/St. Mary's students begin French class. The class, French for the Angers Program, teaches the students about living in France. Each of the French students presently contemplates living in Angers France next year. The prospect of living and studying in France represents a major decision and an ongoing debate for the students. The debate encompasses many different aspects and at times boggles the mind. As in all debates, the Angers decision reveals two major angles--to live in France next year or remain in the U.S. Although the aspects may appear relatively straig_htforward, little details continuously add complexity to the debate. By examining present preparations, the opportunities offered next year, and future prospects, the students attempt to solve the puzzle. _ 
Undoubtedly for most of the students, primarily freshmen and a few sophomores, the daily French class is more interesting and challenging than all previous high school classes. The class level challenges the students to grasp concepts and ideas instead of blindly struggling through grammar and vocabulary. The increased proficiency in speaking, reading, writing and listening to the French language adds tremendously to class enjoyment. For many, extensive discussions 10 French are a new challenge. The idea of speaking primarily in French next year excites, and sometimes frightens, the students. Each Wednesday the whole program meets to explore the land and people that the students will encounter. Talk of chateaux, picturesque villages, French families, travel, cuisine and adventure stretches the students' imagination beyond belief. Constant referral to places the students will see, things to do, people to meet fog the mind like sleepy dreams, and yet, as they fevenshly take notes the students cannot help but think the notes will come in handy during the year. Excitement peaks as one tries to imagine oneself strolling through the corridors of a Renaissance chateau, or shopping in Paris, or see10g the countryside from a Moped seat. This year's French class gears the student towards anticipation and discovery of next year's home. While the class requires time and effort, the lessons will prove most valuable for the prospective voyager. 
A more divided picture appears when the student examines the present lifestyle and tries to imagine next year's opportunities. Many students question the idea of being away from families and friends for a whole year. No long distance telephone calls or vacation jaunts home appear strange for many students. Beyond family relationships, many students find college provtdes life-long friends and special relationships. The idea of abandoning one's roommate, the girl down the hall, the football weekends, the parties and people one has grown to love seems extremely difficult. Undoubtedly, the student wonders if leaving the security of rresent lifestyles for a year abroad will be worthwhile. And yet, the thought o meeting new people, making new friends, traveling, studying and living in Angers France thrills the students. One is not likely to have another opportumty to be a foreign student, an experience of a lifetime. Thus the scale tips 10 favor of each lifestyle, each prospective opportunity. 
The student must also consider the future. Whether living in Angers coincides with career and lifestyle plans. Whether the year abroad will be advantageous for job opportumties and career aspirations. However, the opposite viewpoint reminds the student that life must be experienced and that the added insights which will accompany the adventure can only enhance one's future. Ltfe builds on experience and the year in Angers France will be a lifelong treasure. 
Although next year seems eons away, the pros_pective Angers student must make a decision, must resolve the debate. The details of liv10g in France and the dreams of the future can confuse and bewilder the student. The best 
decision will be made only after careful consideration of the year'spreparati9n, ne~t year's opportunities aqd future plans. For the present,theClebate wtll conunue and ilie students wlll apply ume and effort to learning. 
Irene Prior 
Mr. Kern thought it was another intern entering his hospital room. 
Mr. Kern: You're a new one. I don't believe I've seen you among the doctors. 
Michael: You haven't, I'm sure; though I have been meaning to call on you sooner. I should have been here sooner than this. I am one ofthe chaplains, Chaplain Smith. 
This quote from Henri Nowen's "Competence and Contemplation" deals with the interrelationship of pastoral and medical care; Michael's role as chaplain in the hospital is important to Mr. Kern's overall health. 
The importance of pastoral care is a concern of Fr. Jim Duane. Duane divides his time between duties as chaplain at St. Joseph hospital and work at Notre Dame in Student Affairs. His credentials include one year of study at Worcester State 
. .... . ----------· ·--.----------------­


~~~~~~--~-~~--J 
Hospital in Massachusetts and two years at Richmond. Next semester he will be team teaching Theology and Community Service (fCS) with Fr. Joe Carey and the the aid of Fr. Don McNeil. 
Duane explains the origins of the course: ''Anton Boisen was mentally ill and committed to Westborough State Hospital where he realized that only medtcal model o/J.>es (doctors, nurses, etc.) were help10g him. He wondered where the clergy was; he felt he needed spiritual, emotional, and physical attention. Boisen reasoned that no chaplains were administering to him because no chaplains were trai.Qed to do so. 
''In 1924 Boisen became the first chaplain at a psychiatric hospital in the United States. In 1925 Boisen revolutionized the training of Presby­terian seminarians emphasizing the importance of the pastoral ministry in the hospital." 
Duane agrees with Boisen's ideas of education through experience. Before 1925 for Pa:-esbyterians, and 
~--~ -.-~~­
. 

-·1 
j 
-· ! 
Monday, November 5, 1979 -page 7 
Fr. Bill Toohey 
The Irony and the Terror 
Time magazine probably didn't even get it. "What price power?" asked last week's cover, 10troducing their story on America's weapons-arsenal. I doubt if Time even realized the supreme irony of that cover q_uestion. 
They handled it straight; answered the question about the pnce of power in 
a totally literal fashion. They talked about the price we mu!!t pay for being a 
military super power in terms of dollars--$122 billion this c6ming year. 
But that's not the real price we pay for our continued ~;d~ess. The real price we pay must ~e seen, as Pope John Paul II pointed out, in terms of the tragedy of handing on to our children, for their inheritance, the machinery of death. 
The actual price of this is our sanity. We have lost touch with reality. We can kill everybody in the world 12 times; so we want to iocrease that killing capacity to perhaps 15 or 16 times. The sheer insanity of the position advanced by the Pentagoa, the Congress, the multinationals and the White House is revealed in a single proposition; The more weapons we build, the less secure we are, the more precarious our situation; therefore we will build even more weapons! 
The U.S. alone has put $2 trillion into the military since World War II, in the name of "national security." But that's not the real price we've paid. The actual price is to be seen in the fact that our armament obscenity has meant less money and fewer resources for the things we desperately need. 
In this ''Year of the Child,'' it is a fact that, although ftrst in military strength, the U.S. and the Soviet Union rank lower than many other nations in indicators of social well-being, such as infant and maternal mortality rates. The cost of one Trident submarine equals the cost of a year's schooling for 16 million children in developing countries. 
This is the price we pay. Military and space research togetherJet more public research funds than all social needs combined. The Unite Nations World Food Program has an annual budget which the U.S. Department of Defense alone outspends every 14 hours. 
Even the job market pays some of the price. Bureau of Labor statistics confrrm that •thousands more jobs would be created by spending the same money on needed mass transit, better schooling and health care, and development of new energy sources, not military arms. 
That's the price we pay. In this age ofnuclear overkill, we have entered the theater of the absurd. The explosive power of nuclear weapons stockpiled today has been calculated to equal at least 1 million Hiroshima-type bombs. 
This is the price for our current madness. Military spending priorities continue to rob people of dignity, and even of life itself, while contmuing to fuel the frres of inflation and unemployment. Foreign policies based on fear and mistrust continue to foster ever-increasing arms stockpiles. Nuclear arms continue to threaten total destruction. Non-nuclear arms continue to be used to ret>ress social change and to preserve patterns of injustice, while carrying the nsk of escalation from limited war to total nuclear war. 
"What Price power "indeed! Arnold Toynbee, who surveyed the rise and fall of 27civilizations,said on his 75th birthday: "We are now moving into a chapter in human history in which our choice is going to be, not between a whole world and a shredded up world, but between one world and no world.'' 
In the light of all these factors, it is downright ludicrous for Congress to delay ratification of SALT II because of their petty debate. After all, that agreement will not reduce world armaments by a single nuclear weapon. That's like debating the location ofdeck chairs on the Titanic. The survival at 5take will bs secured only when we.take actions that go far beyond the meager proscriptions ofSALY II. 1 .... •· 
The nuclear war so many experts now predict as a certainty may not come in my lifetime (I'm getting old); but it could end the lives of this present college-age generation. 
We won't abolish nuclear weapons in my life, either. But we better do it in your lifetime, dear students. For, you see, we won't have any more time after that. · 
Notice: The Institute for World Order will present five awards of $1000 each to students who submit winning essays in support of an abolitionist movement against war. Entry guidelines available at Campus Ministry. · 
up until about ten years ago for Catholics, pastoral theology was taught through lectures and read­in~s. These teachings then led to mmistering to the people. Duane and Boisen disagree wtth the early teach­ings; ~oo m~ny ministers knew. eyery rule listed 10 books about mtrustry but could not put it into practice. 
Duane says maybe the best way to study pastoral theology is to frrst become pastoral, compassionate and caring. During the service experi­ences one must then be open to questions and return to the books and classroom seeking the answers such as those confronted in TCS concern ing aging, dying, suffering, loneli­ness and grief. Duane ·.opes "to provide folks with a context to care" so they can bring this caring back to the course with their questions. 
This technique for studying pas­toral theology is utilized m TCS. Students who have had at least one theology course are invited to pre­register in the Center for Experiential Learning. Sixteen students (usually 8 
----------. -­
men and 8 women) are selected for the course after an interview. Since 1971, 375 students have visited residents of a nursing home once a 
week, then related their visits to readings and weekly seminars con­cerning death, compassion and aging. In this course, students 
explore questions about the relation­
ship of theology and community 
service. They will reflect on their personal experiences with service to the elderly. This reflection will I culminate m a f10al project: a case I study of experiences with one of the ~ elderly and theological reflections. I This case will trace the I student's personal journey from his 1 frrst visit to his last visit in relation­
I ship thelogy and community service. I Duane stresses the importance of -1 
beginning to help under the direction of someone who will guide your reflection on your service work. He says with this reflection "the only way to learn how to help is to start b.elping.'' 
-------------. 
1 
... 
The Observer Monday, November 5, 1979 _,page 8 
river cltv records presents arewell tour . . . the last south Bend appearance
of 





BLACK OAK ARKANSAS 
••ATURING JIM DANDY 



AND SPECIAL OUEST •• 

r&t"fFGq1t

TONIGHT, NOVEMBER 5 • 8:00P.M. MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM • SOUTH BEND 
Tickets: $8.5017.50 good seats still available at ffiottls Civic Sox Office 
JEtna's recrutttng C)n your campus. 
.tEtna Life & Casualty has a continual need for good people. Ambitious people. People heavy with potential. People we can train for rewarding careers-
In investment fmancing, engineering, business administration, computer analy­sis, actuarial science, accounting, under­writing and communications. 
Discover how £tna Life & Casualty can be the catalyst that ignites your growth potential. 
Stop by and talk with our campus recruiter November 14, 1979. Contact your Career Advising and Placement Service Office now for an appointment. 

An equal opportunity  w~ ;tP!ti  
employer.  ~  
LIFE &CASUALTY  

Lockerbie Square houses Indiana rich 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Many years ago, Lockerbie Square was the home of Hoosier Poet Laureate ] ames Whitcomb Ri­ley. Then it was one of a number of decaying inner city neighborhoods. 
Having gone full circle, Lock­erbie Square has gained a reputation as a haven for the rich. The residents, who bought their homes at bargain basement prices and refur­bished them to glorious Victori­an mansions, say that label isn't fair. 
People who wanted · to save money as well as the old architecture of the ciry began buying the inner city homes en masse. 
Many of the members of the Lockerbie Square People's Club say they couldn't afford their homes at today's prices. The housing market, along with mortgage rates, has put the once-affordable homes out of reach for most prospective buy­ers. 
Indianapolis' Old Northside, another revitalized neighbor­hood, is in a similar state. 
"No one's going to make a steal on an Old Northside house today," says Marion Redstone, president of the Old Northside Inc. neighborhood association. 
''I'd be priced out of the market if I tried to buy my houses today," says Robert Beauchamp, who founded the neighborhood group. 
"Five years ago, I bought rwo 

houses for $25,000 and today 
those houses would go for 
$100,000 in the same condition I 
bought them," he said. "I've 

seen one landlord up the asking price on a piece of property from $12,500 to $42,900 over the past four years. If these prices existed when the move­ment started, half the people here now wouldn't have bought." 
C£llist to 
perform today 

Cellist Karen Buranskas, an instructor of music at the University of Notre Dame, will present her first faculty recital at 8:15 p.m. today in the Memorial Library auditorium. The recital is open to the public without charge. 
Ms. Buranskas has received many music awards and has won competitions throughout the United States, including the recent 26th Annual Concert Artists Guild Award in New York. Her formal New York debut was presented in Carne­gie Hall in November 1977. After earning her bachelor's degree in music from Indiana Umversity, Ms. Buranskas studied under Aldo Parisot and received a master's in music from Yale University. She has also studied under Gregor Pia­tigorsky at th_e D!liven;iry-of Southern California. 
Joining Ms. Buranskas during the program will be William Cerny, pianist. 
Oass drops Students reschedule classes 
by Kelli Flint StaffReporter 

Last Friday, Nov. 2, was the final day for dropping classes. According to Assistant Regis­trar David Kil, over 8,000 schedule changes were made this semester. "We don't keep track of volume, but overall the number of classes dropped has remained stable over the years," Kil said. "The sche­dule changes include:classes added, dropped, taken pass­fail, or audited, and changes of college.'' 
"A student is not required to give a reason for dropping a class, and the reason is usually not volunteered," Kil said. "Students usually share their reasons for dropping a class with peers or an advisor." 
As stated in the "du Lac" student guide, a class may be dropped at the student's discre­tion through the first sevenclass days without the approval of the dean. After this time, they must report to the department offering the course for an add-drop slip. ''These slips are not available in the Registrar's office," Kil said. "Many students come to our office for add-drop slips, but we are not allowed to distribute them. They can only be obtained through the department offer­ing the course.'' 
~fter the slip is completed, the signature of the department chairmen and the approval of the dean of the student's col­le~e are required. 
' If a section change is all that is desired, the approval of the dean will probably not be required, and the student should go to the department chairman,'' Kil said. 
According to Kil, the course most frequently added at Notre Dame in recent years has been Astronomy. "In 1972, over 900 students signed up for this course," he said. "When it was raised from the 100 to 200 level, its pofulariry declined, bur it is stil a popular selec­tion." 
r----------------~
1 JUST FOR THE RECORD 1 I In the 100 C•nt.r 
I 1 offers 10% off on 1 I EVERYTHING II with ID & coupon I 
records, tapes, paraph•rnalla · · .I
L 
The 
Observer Monday, Novembef 5; 1979 ·~page 9 
RINK RIVERSIDE 
Rex Rakow returns to ND ; 

PRINTING, INC. 
209 EAST COLFAX AVE./ SOUTH BEND. IN 46617 
• FINE LITHOGRAPHY 

• COMMERCIAL PRINTING





assumes securtty posttton 
• INSTANT PRINTING In addition, Kakow will be nois Criminal ] ustice Trainin~ , Phone 232-7935 tSee us about your resume
Program in Carbondale, Ilh-..________________________,.
by Ann Hesburgh responsible for the institution 
StaffReporter 
"It's like coming home, " com­mented Rex Rakow newly ap­pointed assistant director of security, when asked how he felt about returning to South Bend after spending three years as director of security at Albion College in Michi£an. 
"Both my wife and I were born and raised in South Bend and we're )ooking forward to our 
return.'' , Rex Rakow, a 1973 graduate of Indiana University at Blooming­ton, will assume responsibili­ties as assistant director on December 3. James A. Roe­mer, Dean of Students said that one of Rakow's resl'onsibilities will be the superv1sion of all campus events between 4 p.m. 
andl2 midnight. Examples of such events are concerts and basketball and hockey games. 
andmanagementof a training program that will enable the 75 members of the security force to better serve the community. 
"This will be done through a 
program designed to upgrade 
the present system,'' said 
Glenn L. Terry, director of ND 
security. 
According to the Mandatory Law Enforcement Training Act, an officer must have 400 hours of basic state training before geing given the power of arrest.. 
Witfiout this-training, an 
officer can not exercise this 
power. 
-"Because only a few ND 
security officers have the power 
to arrest," commented Terry, 
''the institution of a campus 
training frogram will be quite . beneficia . ' ' 
Prior to Rakow's three years at 
Albion, he was a police training 
specialist for the Southern Illi­
no is, and a policeman for the Richmond, Indiana Police De­partment. After earning a bachelor's degree in police . 'administration at Indiana Uni-. 
1 versity, he was a supervisor in 
. the University's Police Cadet 
·Officers Training Program. Responses to Rakow's new appomtment have been positive ones. "I think it's great," Terry's secretary Evelyn De­Bowe commented. "We need 
, someone on campus to super­
i vise the evening events." 
. "We're lucky to find a person of Rex's talent," Terry added. Rakow, who· was one of three finalists for the position of security director earlier this fall, is looking forward to his new job. "Notre Dame is a credible institution with very impressive people," he said. ''I'm excited about coming to :campus, and looking forward to . meeting all of you.'' 

In Greensboro 
Suspects sought in anti-Klan rally ambush 
GREENSBORO, N.C. (AP)­Police searched yesterday for two more cars and more sus-· pects believed involved in the ambush at a "Death to the Klan'' rally that left four people dead and 10 wounded. 
Civil rights organizations, in the meantime, blamed the bloodbath on a resurgence of Ku Klux Klan activity across the South and the failure of law enforcement officials to pros­ecute Klansmen commiting acts of violence. 
Already in jail were a dozen men charged with first degree murder following Saturday's assault on an anti-Klan rally organized by the leftist Workers Viewpoint Organ­ization, which earlier had taunted Klansmen as ''cowards.'' 
While police said some suspects were avowed mem­bers of the Klan, local KKK leaders said they were mem­bers of other right-wing organ­izations. Two Klan sources and a Nazi leader said some of the suspects were Nazis, but that could not be confirmed. 
Harold Covington of Raleigh, state unit commander of the National Socialist Party of America, said one of the jailed men--Roland Wayne Wood of Winston-Salem--was the Forsyth County Unit leader of the Nazis apd he recognized the 


1\\. .· ;~ 

micfloel~& oo.. ~·· 
oolrconceptJ 
.Jomorrow's_ Hair_ De~igns .•. for ConteDJJOrary 

.~.

Men &-·Women· fll!!ll!lt 
k:::rr;;~:=fl .


North' 

-Southland Pia_~
~ 11le east tf Notn D•t 
IM1 E. lreilanlat.lnllwood
Edison at bad. 2-3 

(219)...291 .. 1001
(219) 2'!~-7222 
CELEBRATION/RIVER CITY Proudly Ptesttnta 








1Dotly Jatchet 

with Special Guests 
Point Blank 
Thursday, November 15 8:00pm 
mortis Civic Auditorium South S.nd 
"\-...-,.. __,_, ........... -.... 
~~~ S.ata Resetved 18.50 & 17.50 
Rlv•r City R•corda (U.S. 31 North, W•awrn Av•., ffilshawaka Av•. & Dun•• Plaza In ffilchlgan City) 
names of some Klansmen among the others. 
"I -regret the tact that 12 good men are in prison facing murder charges,'' he added. 
"As for the Reds, they are the scum of the earth and I don't care about them.'' 
Tliey were identifiea as NelsonJohnson, reportedly one of the organizers of the rally who was charged with inciting to riot, and Willena Cannon, one of the demonstrators, who was charged with interfering with an officer. 
• • .NROTC 
[continued from page 1] 
resentative to Notre Dame, 
sailed in tht-enlisted ranks f0r_ ?'­years before her "IIP~riors steered her to the Academy. In the spring, she will be among the first group of women to graduated from Annapolis. Now, instead ofbreakingin new recruits, she learns how to deter nuclear wars. ''The Soviets believe that a country can win a nuclear. The 
U. S. believes no one wins a nuclear war---everyone loses. So Naval officers are trained to be managers of violence. If we manage violence well, we can avoid it's near occasion," Bux­baum said. 
Although Buxbaum intends to manage violence for the next 30 years, not all midshipmen' and NROTC students share her enthusiasm for military live. While some are uncertain if they will make a career of military life, others plan to ieave the service when they fulfill their military obligation_.. 
Battalion leader Barb Digangi, ND-NROTC's highest· ranking student officer, is confident that no matter what field an officer pursues, military experience will help. 
"A lot of people at ND, besides being patriotic, are in NROTC for the scholarship money and leadership ex­perience. They know that when they leave the service, their leadership experience will be valuable in the business world," Digangi said. 
In the meantime, Digangi said~ ROTC critics on campus should be thanking the future officers instead of harassing them. "If we didn't prtect them, they wouldn't have time to sit around and criticize," she said. 


An advertisement which appeared on page 15 of Friday's OBSERVER stated that it was paid for by Lee's Barbeque. 
In fact, the ad was not sponsored by the management of Lee's , but was taken out by a private individual. The OBSERVER regrets its error and apologires to the management of Lee's. 
The Observer -.Sports Memday, November 5, 1979 -page 10 
... Navy Molarity 
(continued from page 121: 
When tailback Duane Flowers went out in the frrst half, Navy turned to fourth stringer Eddie Meyers. (Navy's top two tailbacks were injured earlier in the season.) 
After the Irish punted on their frrst second half possession, Meyers helped put Navy in range to score a tying touch­down, carrying five times for 39 yards. The Middies drov~ down to the Notre Dame 12, but a saving tackle by safety Tom Gibbons on a draw play to Meyers stopped Navy short, and a field goal att4~mpt by Dave Guin was wide. 

"Is that their tailback's name?'' remarked Irish line backer Bob Crable when asked about Meyers. "That kid ran hard. He was an excellent back, and it took two or three guy~ to bring him down. 
' 'lfthat was their fourth string guy, I sure don't want to see their top three. " Although Meyers provided the 

Michael Molinelli 


spark for the sagging Navy offense, it was his turnover that helped seal the game for the Irish. Sweeping around right end, Meyers was met by defen­sive end John Hankerd, and his subsequent fumble was reco­vered by Gibbons at the Navy 30-yard line. 
From there, Ferguson carried the ball six straight times, including the three-yard touch­d<?wn play that chnched the WID. 


Protesters hide in crown 

New York (AP) Seven demonstrators, protesting the deposed shah of Iran's pre­sence in the United States, chained themselves in the Sta­tue of Liberty's crown for 3 1I 2 hours yesterday before authori­ties cut the chains and took them into custody. 
The seven, who refused to identify themselves to police, were bein~ charged by National Park Serv1ce police on Liberty Island with criminal trespassing and disorder!¥ conduct. 
According to Ellen Britton, acting superintendent of the national park in New York harbor. the demonstrators did 
not resist arrest. Ms. Britton had said about 30 persons were involved in the demonstration, but she said later there were only seven. 
The island was closed to the public throughout the demon­stration, and Britton said the island and statue would remain closed for the rest of the day. Bahram N~.hidian, a spokesman for the Persian 
Speaking Group of the Moselm ·Students Association of the United States and Canada, said the demonstrators were "pro­testing the shah's presence in New York." 
The Shah came to New York from Mexi-:o last month for a gall bladuer oper::~tion. He remains ir. New York Hospital­Cornell Medical Center for treatment of lympho.,ma, a can­cer of the lymph glands. 
The government of the Ayatol­lah Khomeini has demanded that the shah be deported to 
ASK THEM WHY 
Ask VISTA volunteers why they work a year with residents of Chicago's Westside to set up community greenhouses. They'll probably say they're concerned for America's poor, they want to be involved in social change and help people learn to be advocates for resourses and services they need. Ask them: 

REGISTER NOW AT OF~~~.
PLACEMENTl

FOR INTERVIEWS: FRI NOV. 16-NOTRE DAME THURS. NOV. 15 ST. MARY'S 
rr=====:;::=====:r=======:::::::;::=::::::;;;:::::=-===il Iran to face charges, and yes­
terday a group of Iranian stu­dents took over the American embassy in Tehran and said they would not surrender the building until the shah was returned 1·.jfne. 


list $7 .98-$~· 10 available at $8.98~ $).70 t d t .

s u en uruon ticket office mon-wed 12:15-4:00 
......ar~.~a~~~.....;,
select titles frotn columbia/epic label at 
$3.99 per album including~ LOGGINS AriD MESSINA DAN FOGELBERG 
SANTANA 

BILLY JOEL 




... _·_ ...

The Observer • ·Sports~ard" ,.. : .. .... 
Presidential Campaigns for the mock 
convention on Wednesday Nov. 7 In 2-D Female needs apartment and roommates
Lafortune at 7 PM. 
for Sprl ng Semester. Call 6m. 

Lyons Specialty Advertising. Badg11,
decals and many other types of promo­Buspersons and dishpersons needed ­male or female. Apply at The Carriage
Uonal materials. Call Mike G. 232-3815. 
House. 24460 Adams Road. 272-9220. 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year round. 
Europe, S.Amerlca, Australia, Asia, Etc. 

All Fields, $500-$1,200 monthly. Ex­Lost: Green spiral notebook In Business penses paid. Sightseeing. Free Info­Building on Wednesday, Oct. 31. Call Write: IJC, Box 52-14. Corona Del Mar, Mike at 6866. Ca. 92625. 
Lost&Found 
Lost: 1979 silver class ring. Initialed wanted: 1 United discount tix. Call AMS, blue stone. Please call Ann at Frank, 8693. 4-1·5282. 
Wanted (1) United Airlines discount After Inventory Discovered: Lost: last coupon. Call 7934. spring a gold necklace with diamond 
pendant and a gold flower-linked brace­Royal Valley Ski school, Buch~n, MI. is let. Lost: Thursday Oct. 18 navy now accepting applications for lplne and short-waisted jacket. Lost: Friday Oct. 19 Nordic Instructors, part-time or ull-time. royal blue Lacoste sweater In Ladies room No experience necessary. Call 616-695­of Grace Hall. Please contact Cammy 3847 or South Bend, 256-2885. 
14489. 
Paying $10 men's, $5 women's for class Lost: Green American Congress notebook rings. Any condition. Will arrange pick-. In the coat racks outside A-line. Please up. Phone toll-free 1-800-835-2246 any· return the notes; the final Is cumulative. time. Call Bob at am. 
Help! 3 desperately need ride to Lost 1979 Class Ring. P.D.R. Initialed, Milwaukee Friday Nov. 9 and then back Gold Stone, reward, call Joe 232-7456. on Sunday Nov. 11. Will pay for all 
expenses. Call Mark 8653.

1 Lost: Beige trench coat. Last seen 1 kitchen behind LeMans front desk before break. Cella, 4611. 

For Sale 

Lost: Blue Jacket with White N D Insignia at USC game. Gold watch was In pocket. For Sale: 2 United discount tix. Call Allee If found call Joe at 233-6024. 277-5695. 
Found: Medallion from Sonia to Jose at Peach crates are now In stock at RiverStepan fields. 3265. 
City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North. Great for storing records, books, plants, etc.

Lost: Mens silver Rolex wristwatch. Lost at Stepan basketball courts 10/29. 
For Sale: Two L78·15 belted snow tires.

Reward. Call Chris at 1852. 
$50. Call Steve at 8661 or 1432. Lost on' f-1'/1: ·A gold cross and chain. 
For Sale: 4678-14 Radial tires (14in.) Low

Great sentim~_2!iil value. Owner In mour­
Mileage. Call Johnat]~·

.nlng. M¥1e gu,:8. 
Need 4 GA Tennessee tix call Joe 232-7456. 
1 need 2 GA tickets for Clemson. Please call Tim at 3117. 
Need 4 Tenn. GA tix. Will pay $$$. Call Carl 8916. 
Need 1 Clemson GA ticket. Name price. Kevin 289-1718. 
Badly need 2 or 4 Tenn. Tlx. Call ed at 234-1530. Thanks. 
Needed-5,4,3, or 2GA's or 3 GA's and 2 student tlx for Clemson. Call 2257. 
Need 2GA Tennessee Tickets. Big$. Call 1056. 
Need 5or 6tickets to N.D.· Tenn. game. Call 683-1359. 
1 need 6 Tenn. tickets. Call Russ at 277-1761 after 11 PM. 
$25.00 Need ND·UT football tickets Nov. 10. WI 11 pay $25 per. send tickets C. 0. D. to Kurt 1025 Sunset Dr. Chattanooga, Tenn. 37377. 
Wanted: GAtlckets for any home games. Must be two or more together. Call 287-3311 Danny -Joe. 
MONEY! Will pay for 8 desperatelyneeded Clemson tickets. Call Ceci 6620. 
Ned needs 2-4 Student Tix for Navy, and 2-20 GA or student tickets for Tennessee away. Phone 8697. 
Wanted: 2 adjacent Ga Clemson Tix. Marie 4·1-4677. 
Need 6 Tennessee. WiU pay $$$$. Jeff 8764. 
Wanted: 1 GA or student ticket for Clemson -Mark 8455. 

(SMC) 4349. 

Personals 
WSND AM64 bids you Au Bowl with new rock 'n roll--Contest begins today. 
Find those hidden talents! A Putting It All Together workshop will be given to help you recognize your job applicable skills. It Is atwo part series to be held on Monday, November 5th and Wednesday, November 7th at 6 PM In the Student Affairs Conferimce Room In LeMans. Sign up to start your search now in the SMC Counselling and Career Develop­ment Center. 
Lost: Blue jacket with white N.D. Insignia at USC game. Gold watch was In pocket. If found call Joe at 233-6024. 
MARY BETH ---EVERY MAN'S DESIRE!!! 
CONFUSED ABOUT YOUR MAJOR? Two separate Choosing Your Major workshops will be given -Monday, November 5th at 7 PM In the McCandless Plano Room and Tuesday, November 6th at 9 PM In the Regina South Basement. Come see what has to be said -It will clear up your questions! 
Bruce Springsteen Imports now In stock at River City Records 50970 U.S. 31 North, 3miles North of Campus. Open till 
10:00 P.M. 7 days a Weal(. 
INTERESTED IN WRITING A JOURNAL? A workshop will be given for those interested In techniques of Jung and Progoff such as active Imagination and meditation. Sessions will be held at 7 PM on Tuesdays (6,13,20,and 27th) In November. Participants are expected to attend all four seminars. Interested In exploring your Inner processes? Sign up at ,the SMC Counselling and Career Deyelopment Center. _ 
1defenderte contra las enfermeras despues que te vean. Conchita 
P.S. HI Jan l! 
Today Is Patty (what this summer?) Sheehan· s birthday. Souvenez rna petite A.Q.: "Un cheval un cheval, unle dynastle pour un cheval." 
La Petite Blonde 

Tree-1 feel so badI Not that we want you to gat sick or anything but NEXT TIME you gat sick, I promise we'll be over with chicken soup to make you all batter. 
Barb, You now owe me 15 birthday kisses. Mike 
P.S. We'd best win our game Wednes· day. 
Robert of Tlto, Mama Full-pack, Bo, Dewey, Anne, and Laurie, You make my vacation terrific. Thanks! 
Pike 

Galvin, welsh (welsh') n. 1. a people who live in or come from Wales. 2. to go back on your word,welsh on a bet... .. 
Arkies sponser Beaux Arts Costume Ball. 
Theme-UNDERWORLDS. This Sat., Nov.10, at 9p.m. Architecture building. Live band. $3 In advance. $3.50 at the.· door. · 
Ahoy Sailors! The sailing Club Is looking for sailors who have any big boat racing experience. We need crew to race a Luder 44ft. at Annapolis. Call Phil. 8732. 
Flake, • Just wanted to thank you for giving me this lovely nickname! 
Love, Shlndu 

When Is someone going to give Phil O'Larey his first personai'n 
_.,.. 

_j 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---­
Monday, November 5, 1979-page 12 
Vagas shines again 



Navy defense shines in Irish w-in 

by Mark Perry Sports Editor 
Notre Dame celebrated the 50th anniversary of the dedica-· tion of its football stadium, and the Irish did their part to help the celebration by defeating Navy, 14-0. But after the game the big talk was about the defense of the Midshipmen. 
''Navy has a fine defensive team,'' remarked Notre Dame coach Dan Devine. "Every year they have one of the top-ninked defensive teams in the nation, and this team is surely a good defensive unit. "Navy probably had mor~ qua­lity depth than any team we've played this year, including Southern Cal. They now have been able to recruit players who are just as big and Jl?hysical as the players we recrutt.'' 
"They had a lot of guys hurt, but they were still quick up front," added offensive tackle 

... 
Tim Foley. "Navy is a well­
coached team. Their linemen 
are well-coordinated and they 
use good pass rushing techni­

Irish safety john Krimm and Navy's Greg Papajohn battle 
ques~ They don't have tremen­

for the ball along Notre Dame's Stdeline. [photo by Tom 
dous size, but they use their

jackman] 
linebackers very well to com-

Sweep UMD 
leers enjoy trip to Minnesota 
by Brian Beglane Sports Writer 
DULUTH, Minn. -If a poll of the players were taken, the Notre Dame hockey team's favorite road trip would have to be Minnesota-Duluth. 
Not because of the weather ­
the se.ries at U.S. International 
in San Diego in late December 
will be the landslide favorite in 
that respect. But in terms of 
winning, you can't beat Duluth. 
Er, that is, the Irish can. 
Notre Dame broke into the league win column with an 8-4 and 6-4 Western Collegiate Hockey Association sweep of the Bulldogs Friday and Satur­day nights at the Duluth Arena. 
The sweep gave the Irish a 2-2 WCHA record (3-2 overall) and propelled them into a six-way tie for third place. Duluth is sweeping the WCHA cellar with an 0-4 record. 
!he Irish have won their last six games in Duluth and the last time they lost here was way back on Jan. 24, 1976. Notre Dame's career record versus the Bulldogs in Duluth is 9-4-1, and that includes three losses and a tie from the first four meetings. "Yeah, I guess we're really getting to like playing in Duluth," smiled Irish coach Lefty Smith. "We played much better this week than we did in the opener against Denver. We moved the puck much better and got improved forechecking from our forwards. Practically every aspect of our play was impro­ved. 
"We're naturally pleased with two wins, yet we also feel we did not play to our full potenti­al. That is a result of all the injuries we had and the penal­ties we received. But\ I'm very proud of the way we handled all the adversity.'' 
Notre Dame spent so much time in the penalty box both nights the guy opemng the door could have retired if he •charge~ admission. The Irish were called for a grand total of 61 penalty minutes for the weekend (16 for 35 Friday, 13 for 26 Saturday) while the Bulldogs received 3 5 minutes for both nights. Duluth wound up scoring three power elay goals in 21 attempts while Notre Dame had three goals with the advantage in nine opportuni­ties. 
"Dave Laurion's goaltending kept us honest in the early gomg Friday," said Smith. "Alter ·the ·first. peJ;iod~ur-· defensemen started to improve. 
Kevin Humphreys and Bill Rothstein paced the Irish Fri­day with two goals each. Dave Pauling, Tom Michalek andJeff Perry all contributed a goal and two assists. But the strong goal tending .of Laurion allowed Notre Dame to build a 6-1 lead into the third period. The sophomore netmmder made 17 saves in the first period and surrendered only one goal. 
With 13:54 remaining--in the game, however, Launon was hurt :-r~aking a save and was forced to miss the rest of the game. Bob McNamara repla­
ced him and one minute later 
the Irish defensemen allowed 
the floodgates to open. 
Gregg Moore followed up 
Mitch Corbin's power play ~oal 
at 7: 15 with two of his own JUSt 
seven seconds apart to close the 
gap to 6-4 with 10:53 to play. 
McNamara held strong, how­
ever, and totaled eight saves, 
two of them from point blank range in the final minutes. ·Rothstein's second score at 
10:48 doused the fire created by the three Bulldo~ goals. 
Saturday night tt was a wonder Notre Dame had the time to score six goals -the Irish appeared to have leased the penalty box as an extra bench seat. To add to the Irish woes, defenseman ] ohn Friedmann had to sir out after a fight Friday night and left wing Kirt Bjork rode the bench with a knee injury. Forwards Jeff Logan and Dan Collad missed the trip to begin with, and defenseman Don Lucia suffered a hip pointer (contusion) Satur­day and, along with Logan, Collard and Fjork,are question­able for this week's home series 
[continued on page llJ 
Ticket pickup begins Tuesday 
Notre Dame undergraduate, IMPORTANT Nu1E: All graduate, law and married students (Notre Dame and St. students and St. Mary's stu­Mary's) must eresent their ID's dents who J?Urchased season to receive their tickets. Since basketball uckets this past all student ticket orders have spring or fall may pick them up been previously assigned in the at the box office, secondfloor of respective seating areas, it does the athletic and convocation not matter when you report. center according to the follow­Any student who does not claim ing schedule: their ticket by Friday, 
November 9 will have their 
money refunded to them.
Tuesday, November 6-­
Wednesday, November 7-­Each student may present a 
maximum of two [2] ID 's when
Thursday, November 8-­picking·up tickets.
Friday, November 9 -­Information regarding the
AU STUDENTS 
availability of tickets for away games can be obtained at theTickets will be issued during gate 10 box office in latethe l;lours of8:30 am to 4:30pm. 
November.
(!ncludes the noon hour.) 
pensate. '' 
Vagas Ferguson, continuing his assault on the Notre Dame record books, was the key factor in the game, as he gained 155 yards on 34 carries and scored the final Irish touchdown. The senior tailback now has 1,061 yards rushing on the season, becoming the first Notre Dame runner to rush for 1 ,000 yards in two seasons. He also became the Irish career leader with his 11th 100-yard game. 
''They were tough yards, every one of them," Ferguson admitted. "Navy's defense was big, tough and quick. I've got to give credit to the offen­sive line, for opening the holes against such a tough defense." 
Ferguson went into the game with a sore shoulder, but the close score left Devine with little opportunity to rest his running star. 
"I don't know if it's good for Vagas to rest," Devine com­mented. ''Most !-formation tailbacks seem to play better late in the game. I'm proud of Vag as, and if I had rested him it would have been a mistake.!' 
''Winning always feels good, but I'II be sore tomorrow," confessed Ferguson. "The shoulder wasn't a big factor. Whatever it takes to win the game I want to do it. I can't sit on the bench and just say I'm hurt. You just gotta say to yourself:' It hurts,' and then go out there and do your job.'' 
It seemed like the Irish would have ample opportunity to rest Ferguson after their early play, as they marched to a touchdown on their very first possession. Quarterback Rusty Lisch cap­ped the 73-yard drive by plun­ging over from a yard out. 
And when Bob Crable blocked an attempted punt by Navy's Lex Lauletta, it seemed like the Irish might be heading for a rout. But Navy's defense took over, and held the Irish score­less until the fourth quarter. 
In the meantime, the Middies found spark for their offense . 
[continued on page 10] 

ND cagers play charity game 
Notre Dame basketball fans will get their first opportunity to see the 1979-80 Irish in the annual charity game slated for Sunday, November 11, at 7 
p.m. in the Athletic and Convo­cation Center. Tickets are priced at $1 for adults and 50 cents for Notre Dame and St. mary's students with an ID. Proceeds will benefit the Neigh­borhood Study Help Program and the Special Olympics. 
Fighting Irish coach Digger Phelps has announced the line­ups for the game. The tentative starting five, wearing green, will feature a front line of juniors Kelly Tripucka and Tracy Jackson at forwards and Orlando Woolridge at the cen­ter spot. Senior co-captains Rich Branning and Bill Hanzlik will comprise the backcourt for the green team. 
Phelps figures to go with freshman Tim Andree at center with classmate Bill Varner at one forward post and junior Gilbert Salinas at the other frontline position for the blue squad. Junior Stan Wilcox and freshman John Paxson are pen­ciled in at the guard slots. 
''This game should give us a chance to see all of our players in game situations,'' says Phelps. "We'll try a lot of the things we want to do during the year. We want to see how the freshmen are coming along and how the upperclassmen are reaching to the new plays and defenses we've been teaching them. In all, it should be a very exciting evening for 'Notre Dame basketball fans and espe­cially the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's student body." Players will be available bef~re and after the game to stgn autographs and chat with fans. 








