
, , , Back-to-Basic Rock--page 7 

VOL. XIII, NO. 115 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 1UESDAY, APRIL 10, 1979 

University opens defense 
.,......,_,......$!
... -.....-------··------···......----­


in Danehy trial 
by Milte Shields News Editor 
KNOX, IN . Counsel for both the University and Professor James Danehy entered depostions ~nd examined witnesses before Judge Marvin McLoughlin in the Stark County Circuit Court here yesterday when Danehy's suit against the University came to trial. 
Danehy, who alleges that Notre Dame has "no rational retirement standards fairly applied to all faculty members," sued the University in 1977 after hts contract was terminated when he turned 65. 
He contends that a significant number of faculty members are allowed to continue in full-time positions after reaching 65 years of age. 
The University, however, maintains that, at that time, all professors became·Emerirus at age 65 as a matter of policy. Their contracts are then reviewed on an annual basis by their department's Committee for Appointments and Promotions (CAP). 
Danehy, Chemistry Department Chairman Jeremiah Freeman and former-Provost James Burtchaell testified' during the trial. Paul Kusbach represented Danehy, while Thomas L. Murray and University Counsel Phillip Faccenda defended Notre Dame. 

United Airlines remains on strike, which could put a crimp in students' Easter travel plans. Kusbach centered Danehy's case on three points: whether Notre Dame has a mandatory retirement policy; how correct and consistent the University's procedures are m dealing with requests for re-appointment (such as Danehy's); and whether these
In Tanzanian battle procedures are in keeping with the Fourteenth Amendment, which calls for due process of law. · Murray maintained that retirement is mandatory for faculty members who reach 65 years of age, that due process was followed
Amin calls on fresh troops 
in Danehy's case, and that the dispute was a simple contract case. Danehy testified in his own support that he did not anticipate NAIROBI, Kenya (AP)Fresh Residents reported spotting men. Amin is believed to have retiring when he reached 65 because he felt he was qualified to Ugandan troops loyal to Idt ·Ugandan reinforcements yes­no more than a few thousand continue teaching and research, although he granted the defense's Amin took up new tx>sitions terday camped in a shopping loyal troops left. contention that he realized the intent of the policy when he signed east of Kampala yesterday after center six miles east of Kam­Libya's leader, Col. Moam· his contract with the University. Much of the debate on this topic Tanzanian forces blunted a pala on the road to Jinja, the mar Khadafy, had sent an centered around the wording of the retirement clause in the last-ditch Ugandan counter· exile sources said. estimated 2,600 soldiers to bear Faculty Handbook which reads that faculty members will attack in bloody fighting south the brunt of the defense work "ordinarily" retire on the ftrst day in July following their
One recent refugee from the

of the city, anti-Amin exiles for fellow Moslem Amin, but . sixty-fifth birthday. 
fighting said yesterday that 

said. the last of the Libyan troops The plaintiff also introduced the examples of two professors,
Amin had little time left. 

Amin's government an­pulled out of Kampala over the Milton Burton and William Hamill, who continued full-time in the
"His army doesn't have any

nounced, meanwhile, it had weekend, apparently to fly back employ of the University well after their sixty-ftfth birthday. The
fuel, there's little ammunition

executed four ''foreign mercen­home. defense countered with the fact that these men were not retained
and a shortage of food,'' British

aries,'' sources reported. But The Tanzanian-Ugandan war as teachers, but as researchers.
civil engineer John Payne, 44,

the victims were believed to be erupted in October when These two cases dominated the discussion of the consistency of
told reporters after arriving in

two West German and two Amtn' s troops invaded north· Notre Dame's retirement policy. The policy states that the CAP of
London.

Swedish journalists who tried to west Tanzania and seized 710 a faculty member's department will revtew all applications for 
slip into Uganda by boat across He said he expected Amin to square miles of territory. They appointments and re-appointments, but Freeman testified that 
Lake Victoria. make a last stand at Jinja in the were driven back across the Burton was never reviewed, although he remained a full-time The invasion force ofTanzan· next five days but "he can't border and have since been faculty member after his sixty-ftfth birthday. Hamill was reviewed ian troops and Ugandan exiles survive any longer." pursued by the Tanzanians and only once after he turned 65, although he also continued full-time bas been poised at K,ampala's The invasion force is estima­Tanzania-based Ugandan southern and western outskirts ted to n_umber 7,000 to U,_OOO rebels. [continued on page 5] for tbe put week. 
Exile sources, quoting eye· wimesses, said Ugandan rein· 



Danehy vs. Notre Dame: A Summary 
forcements  led  by  tanks  and  
armored cars  launched  an  as·  
sault against the invaders over  
the weekend on the road to Entebbe airport, 21 miles south of Kampala. But the invaders held off the attack and inflicted the heaviest casualties of the war on the pro-Amin forces, one exile said. Like other battle reports from the largely secret war, this one could not be easily verified.  by Mark Rust News Editor KNOX, IN -In the case of James P. Danehy vs. Notre Dame the University.finds itself in the peculiar position of defending both their non· appointment of the professor Emeritus and their policy on  Both sides, in their examina­tion of witnesses and in their summaries, tried to score points with three major argu­ments. The plaintiff, Danehy. alledged that the University 1) does not have a "mandatory" retirement policy, 2) does not have a "clear and consistent" procedure. for considering year­ toward retirement. When Danehy signed his first employ· ment contract in 1954 the faculty handbook stipulated that a professor, upon reachin~ the age of 65, "shall retire.' In 1972, when Danehy signed his last contract,· the wording had been revised by Burtchaell , to read "a faculty member  ment (at the University) is more reasonable than Columbia Broadcasting System's," Burt· chaell said. Burtchaell had earlier referred to CBS as an example of a system with a "hard and fast" policy on re­tirement. Kusbach then tried to show that, given Danehy's belief that  
Kampala residents reported  retirement in general. the case  ly re-appomtments past the age  ordinarily retires" at the age of  he could and would be retired,  
hearing a series of heavy explo·  is  particularly interesting  be·  of  65, and  3)  this  lack  of  65.  Kusbach  contented  that  Danehy applied for reappoint·  
sions  late  Sunday  and  early  cause it resembles many cases  consistency  violates  the  14th  this discrepency represents an  ment and met with unfair and  
yesterday near Amin 's lodge in  now  before  the  courts,  cases  ammendmenr  (due process).  "unclear" policy toward retire·  arbitrary standards of consider·  
the capital, the exiles said.  The  that  have  in  the  last  year  The defense countered that the  ment,  that  it  suggests  the  arion.  Kusbach used  Profes- 
Ugandan strongman is reported  sparked a  renewed interest ip  University 1) does, in fact, have  strong possibility of continued  
to have set up a new head­quarters at Jinja, 50 miles to  the federal mandjltory reti~e­ment age. Atter the tnal  a "mandttory" retirement pol· icy; 2) did follow due proces,s;  employment after age 65 by a willing professor with estab­ [continued on page 2]  
the east, though he is said to have made several forays into  yesterday in Knox, a small rural town 55 miles southeast of the  and 3) considers the Danehy affai;, a ''simple case of contract  lished credentials. Kusbach closely questioned  This is the last  
Kampala. He was  reported  seen  in  campus, both sides appeared confident. "It's our case," said  law. A summary of the arguments  Burtchaell on this pomt. Burt· chaell had sworn in a deposition  Observer issue  
Kampala Sunday driving a sports car. Exiles said sources  a bouyant Thomas Murray, University Counsel, "it's very  and evidence follows. DANEHY:  prior to the trial University has a  that the "flexible"  before Easter.  
close to the Ugandan postal system told them Amin had  clear." Paul B. Kusbach, Danehy's attorney, was guard·  Kusbach called to the stand both Danehy and Fr. James  policy towards retirements. Kusbach allowed Burtchadl,  !Publication will reswnc:  
placed a call to Tripoli and spoke with family members  edly optimistic. "I don't want to say anything to jinx the  Burtchaell, former University provost, to show that the Uni­ while on the stand, to qualify the statement: "i would say  Wednesday Apri118.  
who fled to the Libyan capital.  case," he said, smiling.  versity  has  an  unclear  policy  that by and large ... the arrange· _,___  -­ -­ 


News in brief 
Nicaraguan rebels renew attacks as Somoza vacations 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP)--Leftist guerrillas battled government troops in nonhwest Nicara~a for a second day yesterd3;y, military so~ces ~epor:ren •. while Presi~ent AnastasiO Somoza vacationed wtth hts •children: the Umted States. The government claimed the Sandinista rebels had fled back across the Honduras border. But the Red Cross in Managua said its office in Esteli, in the hean of the battle area 80 miles north of the capital, reponed continued heavy fighting yesterday. 
Weather 

Sunny and warmer today with highs in the upper 40s. Clear 
and cold tonight with lows in the low to mid 30s. Increasing 
cloudiness tomorrow with a chance of rain late in the day. 
Highs in the low to mid 50s. 


s 
tuesday, apri/10 

12-4:30 pm--RECRUIT INFO, on the. volunteer services program in houston, VOL. SERVICES OFFJCE 
1 pm--BASEBALL, nd vs. valparaiso, KLINE FIELD 
3:30pm--SEMINAR, "impact of environmental regulation on power plant design," dr. d. a. leone, sargent & Iundy engineering, 203 ENGR. BLDG. 
3:45 pm--FORUM, "rev?lutionary subordi~at~on in t4e politics of jesus," prof. JOhn h. yoder, chnsttan l.awyers forum, 105 LAW BLDG. 
4:30pm--SEMINAR, "the structure of the human red blood cell membrane: a colorimetric study," prof. philip lowe, purdue univ., 278 GALVIN 
4:30-5:30 pn:--RECRUIT INFO, vol. services houston program, SMC DNG. ROOM 
6:30pm--MEETING, alpha phi omega, ZAHM BASEMENT 
7,9 & 11 pm--FILM, "annie hall," ENGR. AUD., $1 
7 pm--LECWRE, "sexual minoritie~," rev. paul shanley, boston archdiocese, spon. by stud. umon and gay students of nd, MEM. UB. AUD. 
7 pm--MEETING, d.c. club members, FARLEY BASEMEN( 
7:30pm--READING, recent poetry & fiction, by prof. sonia gernes, nd, MEM. UB. LOUNGE 
wednesday, apri/11 

12:15 pm--SEMINAR, "autoimmune disease," dr. john j. gavin, miles laboratories, 278 GALVIN 
3:25 pm--SEMINAR, "the food industry-:a challenge for chemtcal engineers," dr. ken valentas, pillsbury co., 268 CHEM. ENG. BLDG. 
4 pm--LECTURE, "the best defense is,a good _defense ­towards a marxist theory of labor unions, dr. davtd gordon, HAYES-HEALY AUD. 
4:20 /m--COLLOQUIM, "nuclear safety: the three-mile islan syndrome," 219 ROTC BLDG. 
5:15pm--FASTER'S MASS, world hunger coalition, WALSH CHAPEL 
6:30pm--MEETING, sailing club, 204 O'SHAG 
7 pm--WORKSHOP, life & career planning, with paul winum, 400 ADMIN. BLDG. 
7:30pm--LECTURE, "how to view an art exhibit," michele fricke, moreau gallery director, CARROLL HALL 
8:15 pm--CONCERT. nd woodwind •quintet, MEM. LIB. AUD. 
thursday, apn/12 

12 pm--LECTURE, "jaFanese family legislation and policy: the problem of the a get in japan,'' prof. takeji kamiko, osaka city univ., MEM. LIB. LOUNGE 
3 pm--BASEBALL, nd vs. bethel college, KUNE FIELD 
. •. ,..,.,.j.. ~ pm--~EMINAR, ''t\!.p.Jt..r.energy rJ!igran~n in solution,'' dr. 
J.c. scatno, nd, CONH~RNCE RM. RAD. RES. BLDG. 
,.. . ­
[continued from page 1) 
sors William Hamill and Milton Burton as examples of two chemistry professors who con­tinued --without review --in the full-time employ of the University after their· 65th birthday. He also closely questioned Profess0r Jeremiah 
P. Freeman, Chemistry Depart­ment chairman, in attempting to show that the committee, in reviewing Danehy' s application for reappointment, was remiss . Under oath, Freeman acknow­ledged that the committee "cir­culated" a three-page letter written by Danehy whtch ''stat­ed (his) case." Freeman also acknowledged that Danehy was never asked to fill out an application for reappointment, which Freeman called, in a letter to Burtchaell, a "silly formality." Freeman also testt· fied that there exists "no written procedure other than the faculty handbook'' for eval-

Erratum 
In yesterday's edition, The Observer mistakenly reported that events on Saturday of An Tostal will be held on Cartier Field. These events will be held on the fields around Stepan Center, and on the field nonh of the D-1 parking lot across Juniper Road from Stepan. The Observer apolo­gizes for this error 

FThe Observer_ 
Night Editor: Sue W uetcher 
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Pam  
Degnan  
Copy  Editors:  "Sr.  K"  

Connelly, John McGrath, Rob Powers Spons Layout: John Smith Typists: Mardi Nevin, Beth 
Willard, P-er~ ''I never leave early" McFadden, andRosie Early Morning Typist: Katie Ad Layout: joe Murphy, Barb Pratt 
The Observer {USPS 598 920\ is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s College. Subscriptions may be purchased lor $20 per year {$10 per semester] from The Observer. P.O. box 
o. Notre Dame,lndiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All. reproduction rights are reserved. 

Tuesday, April 10, 1979 -page 2 
• .. Summary 

uating professorial reappoint­opposed to "ordinarily retire" ments. --was small, Murray claimed. NOTRE DAME: The defense tried to show, 
Murray, in cross-examining through a deposition that traced Bunchaell, tried to show that the etymology of the word the University did, in fact, have "ordinarily," that the standard a standard retirement policy · usage of the word implies a under which all professors are sense of order, something to be expected to retire at 65. The expected. Phillip Faccenda, discrepancy between the 1054 also a University counsel, sug­and 1972 versions of the faculty handbook --"shall retire" as [continued on page 9] 
• 

: CAMPUS PRESS : 


: Positions open for 2 printers : : and a secretary for 1979-80 : : school year. : 
: PAID POSITIONS : 
: Call Diane at 7920 or office at 7047 : · : printing experience desired : : but not necessary : 
,.,.,.,,CIJ. "''· ~~~ ~-·~ ('f::J


0 ~~~ 
~ 232-3354 

COMPLETE WIRE SERVICE li=tt======J27 UncolnWayWest ~~~~~~ 
l:i::::::====south Bend, Indiana 46601 

·D&BGO 







BY ILlEim~~ 
anb 


ll!t!LJLOR JJISLJ£; easteR paRty weo. 9-t 
all you can ORink! 
smc want€0 $3 quys $2 (jiRlS BRinG IO's 
1!; .. -~ ori1~, •. 

~--------------------------------------~---------------------------------------­
The Observer 

Administration accepts Reid's jungement ori FLOC referendum 
by Bnan McFeeters 

''The administration will accept Reid's judgment on the value of the referendum, ''Vice President for SLudent Affairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear told members of the Farm Labor Support Committee yesterday, referring to the planned refer­endum of the Nestle's and Campbell's boycott. 
The committee is working to gain support at Notre Dame for the Farm Labor Organizing Committee (FLOC) of Ohio, which represents migrant tomato pickers. The FLOC is sponsonng a nationwide boy­cott of Campbell's and Nestle's to persuade the two cannery owners to negotiate contracts with workers. The canneries now claim no responsibility for the migrant workers. 
The Committee had been uncertain about administration <cooperation with this month's referendum and had received no assurance from the director of Student Activities, John Reid, that the boycott would be implemented ifapproved by the students. 
"Our position is that if the students back it, we'll support the boycott," Van Wolvlear said to the fifteen committee members during yesterday's lunchtime meeting. 
He explained that Reid is responsible for deciding whether the voters have been wdl enough educated on the issue ro make a just decision. 
Van W olvlr:ar also clarified administration policy towards successful referendums such as thr: current campus-wide boy­cott of Nestle's products, say­ing, ''The refendums will be reviewed for effectiveness each 
year, but they may br: renewed without being brought to a 
vote." 
Tech review hosts convention 
The Notre Dame Tech review hosted the 1979 Magazine As­sociation Convention this past weekend. More than 120 students and faculty from around the United States at­tended. 
The Tech Review won a first place plaque for Best Technical Article by Ed Anderle, and received Honorable Mention for Best Single Editorial by Mark Meyer. 
''The convention was a great success and we're looking for­ward to next year's convention in Colorado,'' Debbie Bieber, convention coordinator, said. "Professors Robert A. Drevs, James Daschbach, Patrick Horsbrugh and Dean Edward Jerger . deserve special .c~m­mr:ndauon for theu partiCipa­tion." 
•'The Tech Review received many compliments and ova­tions from many of the dele­gates,'' Bieber said, "and this was made possible by the hard work of magazine members 
Laura Drda, Maureen Finne­gan, Doug Bonanomi and facul­ty advisor Stuart McComas.'' 
Committee members Mary Hawley and Rick Corona que-st­ioned Van Wolvlear about Univ­ersity support for the Ohio migrant workers on the basis of "Catholic ideas and values," rather than as a strict issue of student support. 
"My job is to be a represent­ative of the students," Van Wolvlear explained, "so it wouldn't be right for me to state my own support of disap­proval of the boycott referendum.'' 
He added that the committee would do well to seek adminis­tration support ''from the top down,'' by presenting their information to l.Jniversity President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. 
I think you' II find an open and Christian attitude towards your efforts within the adm.ini­stration," Van Wolvlear sa1d. 

"Many of our priests have worked with Mexican Americans in Texas, so they're familiar with the migrant
. ,
Issue. 
Van Wolvlear said he is very much in favor of the J?ledges proposed by the commmee in which students would agree to "bring the boycott home" this summer. 
He also suggested that the committee approach student government and other organi­zations on campus for support and help in publicizing the referendum. 
The committee told Van Wolvlear that they plan to begin petitioning for the signat­ures required for a referendum soon after Easter break, and will distribute informational leaflets to residence halls this week. 
Tribal gangs murder Moslems in southern Chad 
PARIS (AP) -Marauding tribal gangs in southern Chad, aided m some cases by mucin­ous troops and police, have killed at least 10,000 persons in the last month-mostly Moslem shopkeepers and their families ­according to reports reaching hr:re yesterday from mission­aries in the capital of . N'Djamena. 
Detailed reports from Jesuit mission stations said 4,000 to ~.000 persons were murdered in Moyen-Chari province and 
~.000 to 6,000 in West-Logone province in th~ first two weeks of March. 
If thr: missionary reports are correct, it would be the worst 
fi · 
tribal slaughter in A rica smce 100,000 members of Burundi's Hutu tribe were massacred in 1972 by the Tutsi tribe, their traditional rivals. 
Sources at the missionary headquarters in N'Djamena said the tribal and religious slaughter resumed in the southern provinces on Friday, following several weeks of calm. There was no exact count of how many more were mur­dered in the latest outbreaks of violence. 
The religious violence follows civil war in Chad between forces loyal to former President Felix Malloum and various Moslem factions. Malloum, a southern Christian, was re­placed by Goukouni Queddei, tribal chief of the strict Islamic Toubou tribe of northern Chad, as part of a peace:; plan .negot~­ated last month 10 Kano, Nl­gena. 

• It was the first time since the end of French colonial rule in 1960 that there has been a non­Christian head of state tn .Chad, a landlocked Sahara nation o~ 
4.2 .million in north-central Af­
rica, nearly twice  the  size  of  
Texas.  
Following  appointment  of  

Queddei as inte~im president, the sources sa1d there was panic and anarchy among the Christians and ammist worshi­pers in the south, ami~ rumo~s that the new reg1me 1n N'Djamena would force their conversion to Islam. Gangs of aroused southerners turned against the local Moslem mi­nority, many of whom are 
~ 
merchants or moneylenders, looting their shops after killing the owners and their families. 
In Paris, a French Foreign Ministry spokesman confirmed yesterday there had been wide­SJ?read slaughter, but he could gJVe no precise figures. 
-UCLA holds 

Summer Session 
For students who are inter­

ested in attending summer 
school, UCLA has opened its 
1979 Summer Ses!iion.,s.,program ·to··rut students. 
This year the University will offer more than 400 special programs and courses spanning ~0 subject fields from the physical, natural and social sciences to the arts and human­ities and other professional fields. 
The two six-week sessions, beginning June 25 and August 6,~are open t9 all students. Out-of-state students do not have to pay non-resident fees. However, enrollment in Summer Sessions does not con­stitute admission to the Univer­sity. 
Summer Sessions students have an · opportunity to earn degree credit, take classes otherwise unavailable, enhance career prospects or pursue a particular interest for cultural or intellectual enrichment. 
A special appeal of Summer Sess10ns IS that most classes are smaiJer, aiJowing additional time for interaction with faculty and other students. 
Highlighting the summer schedule are programs in Asian performing arts, design, theater arts, English literature and exposition, kinesiology, folklore and mythology, and motion picture Itelevision. 
For more information and a free Summer Sessions catalog, write to the Office of Summer Sessions, UCLA, 1254 Murphy Hall', 40~ Hilgard Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90024. 
·---· ·-------··-----..... ·--------------.. --------···-"" _.., ____., -·--·-..---·-.-·---------·-----·--r• 
Tuesday, April 10, 1979-page 3 


races are always a popular event. 


Any Juniors and Seniors-to-be, 
W//4?/®W4.Y#.,PZW,@;up.-k¥/~ff&M?#?k,@W///M47/ff:@f4&!4 

interested in positions as officers of the , 1979-80 Pre-Law Sodety 
WH>,MZWH/H/0Whmf/ff4ibMWY!im'4{W$&Wd 
should pick-up application forms in Rm. 101 O'Shag. 


SCholastiC 
applications .me now B€1nq accept€0 fOR all 1979-80 EbltO~Ial. Bomb pos1t1ons 
(new positiOn: smc Eblto~) 
fOA fUAth€Q IO~OQmatiOO, 
call Oav€ at 1684 OA call th€ ontC€ at 7569 

Oe.aOlln€ roA all appl1cat1ons: 

..
3J)Ril 13 







ORtENrAL 
EXPRt55 
RestauRant 
f€atURin(j: 
canton€S€. chln€S€, Vl€tnam€s€ an() am€RJCan 01Sh€S-pR€PaR€0 f:R€Sh In th€ORI€lltal tRaOJtJOn 
caRRY out-01ne 1n 
Phon€ 272-6702 115 Oax1eway n. (us 31 no~th) 
Chop SU€Y SP€Cial!! $2.75 €V€AY monoay 
The Observer Tuesday, April 10, 1979 -page 4 

To benefit Muscular Dystrophy 


ND-SMC to hold m.arathon 
by]udy Curlee Two campus service orga.n­izarions are planning the event. A 24-hour dance marathon One of them, Circle K, which is will be held at Stepan Center on affiliated with Kiwanis Interna­April 21. Sponsored by Angel tional, has met with success Flight and Circle K, the event this year in raising money for will benefir Muscular Dystro­charities. Their Mardi Gras phy. There will be twelve area booth cleared $1100 and their high schools represented, and Swim-a-Thon raised $600 for ideally, significant participation the American Society. Angel by students of the Notre Dame­Flight, the other sponsor, is a Saint Mary's comm•.mity. The voluntary service group associ­key to reaching the $20,000 goal ated with Air Force ROTC, but is involvement. two-thirds of its members are 
According to Mary Melley, from outside of ROTC. Melley co-chairman of the Marathon, a said she was contacted about great deal ofwork has gone into the possibility of Angel Flight the plans since last December, organizing a dance marathon when the idea was first sug­for Muscular Dystrophy after gested. Two bands have al­her group's success during the ready been booked, and it is Jerry Lewis Telethon. hoped that eventually four According to Melley, "our bands will provide music for the group turned in the largest event. Disco Party Productions contribution for the Telthon ­will also be sending a disc $800." She also stressed the 
jockey and a sound crew. Additional sound work will be provided by Electro Voice, the 

sound equipment group the Tornadoes sweep South; 
handled the Collegiate Jazz Festival last weekend. She also noted that the rock station 

Ice storms hit Michigan 
WRBR will be covering the 
marathon live every hour, from 
10 a.m. on Saturday until its (AP)-Devastaring tornadoesfinish at 10 a.m. on Sunday. 
skipped across the S~uth ye~­Norm Burggraf, Circle K terC:lay while unrelenung fngtd 
president, mentioned other 
weather shrouded fans of New events that will be taking place England with a hal foot of snow at Stepan during the marathon. 
and glazed much of Michigan
He noted that a carnival atmos­with heavy ice that snapped

phere is planned with backgam­power lines like gunfire and mon tournaments, basketball darkened 180,000 homes. shooting contests, and dunking At least five pc;rsons we!"e ofcampus personalities. Prizes killed on icy btgh:ways ~n are being offered by local Michigan, and p_oltce satd 
merchants. downed power ltnes we~e sparking numberous fires 10 homes and garages.
Police ana National Guards­men cordoned off the south Arkansas town of Camden to keep out looters a·~d sightseers



LITURGIES OF HOLY WEEK 
where a Sunday mght twts_ter cut a five-mile swadi, wrecktng 75 homes, an e!ementary school and a shoppmg center a.n~

lt===an 1979 injuring 27 persons, one cnn­
CC!I1JPUS 
man1Stry 
Sacred Heart Church 
WEDNESDAY 
7:15PM Tenebra~ 

HOLY THURSDAY 
9:00 AM Morning Prayer 
5:00 PM Evening Mass of the Lord's Supper 
cally.
''The damage is tremen­dous," said Jerry Bradsh~w of the Arkansas State Pollee. ''The estimate this morning was running about $10 million



Notre IJame 
to $15 million. ''Where it hit it really leveled 
everything." .


Residence Halls 
Tornadoes spawned by ·~io­lent thunderstorms. n~:ov.mgfrom the lower Mtsstsstppt Valley into Alabama and Georgia also injured 19 other persons elsewhere !n Ark_a';lsas and-touched down m Loutstana 
and Mississippi. 
In Detroit, where all schools were closed and most of the city was without power, overworked utility company crews were calling for help from other 

cities.  .  
4:30PM 5:00PM 7:00PM 7:30PM 8:00PM  Sorin Dillon Morrissey fCeenan-Stanford Flanner  Seven houses caught fire m Royal Oak. In suburban Livonia a car burst into flames when a power line fell on it. In Grosse Pointe Park a 60-foot tree ripped up .part of the street  
when it fell atop a ranch-style  

home.

GOOD FRIDAY===*=========~ It was the second storm to 
M M · p 3:00 PM Grace clobber Michigan within 72
9:00 A ormng rayer 3:15PM Keenan-Stanford 
hours. Gale wtnds raked the Lord's Passion 7:00PM Morrissey 3:00 PM Celebration of the state last week, leaving four dead and 200,000 homes with-. out lights.
Up East, in the meanume,HQL Y SATURDAY ====t:===1=0:=00=P:;:::M=K=ee=na=n=-S=ta=nt=or=d===tl 

the unseasonable storm
9:00AM Morning Prayer dropped more than 5 inches· of

11:00 PM The Paschal Vigil 11:00 PM Dillon 
snow in parts of New York state and northern Connecticut and aEASTER SUNDAY ==*====9:4=5A=M=Fis=he=r===~ mixture of rain, sleet and snow 
fell ftom northern Indiana into

9: 15 AM 10:30 AM St. Edwards central New England.
10:30 AM Solemn Liturgy of Out in Lake Erie, northwestEasrer Morning 

10:.30 PM Zahm 
of Ashtabula, Ohio, bad12:l5PM 

10:30 PM St. Edwards 
weather hampered efforts . to7:15 PM Vespers free the )I)-foot Canadtan

10:30 PM Grace 
freighter Labradoc which went aground following a violent 

11:00 PM Dillon 
importance ot informing stu­dents about this very worthy charity and making them aware that their contnbutions are spent wisely by the Muscular Dystrophy Association. 
Students are encouraged to participate as dancers and sponsors. Tips . on pacing yourself, as well as food, will be provided for the dancers. 
Melley also hopes that dorms will challenge each other in the Marathon. She added that sections may also sponsor dancers. 
"We are looking for a very active response, so please dance so others may walk," Melley remarked. 
Aspiring dancers and spon­sors are asked to contact Mary Melley, co-chairman, at 3791, Tom Ahern 1472, or chairman Mark Skiba at 288-0931. 
storm Friday. The freighter was abandoned after its cargo of grain shifted and it started takmg on water. 

SMC holds class, hall elections 
Elections for Saint Mary's class and hall officers will be held on Wednesday, April 11. the polls will be open from 10-5 
p.m. in Lemans Lobby and from 5-6 p.m. in the LeMans side of the dining hall. All students are encouraged to vote. 

Absentee ballots may be obtained by contacting Election Commissioner Mary Mullaney at 4453. 
ND Quintet to present recital 
The Notre Dame Concert 
Series will pre~ent . the Notre 
Dame Woodwind Quintet in a 
recital ·of chamber music for 
winds at 8: l) p.m. tomorrow in 

,the Library :Auditorium. The 
recital, for· which the q1;1i';Itet 
will be jl)ined ·by W llllam 

Cerny, pi:u\o, is 10pen to the . public wnhdpt charge. . , 
The Notrl\ Dame W oodwmd 
Quintet is made up. of faculty 
members ·an£! teachmg ass~­
iates in the Notre Dame mustc 
department .who are_ also prom: 
inent in area mustcal o~a01 
zations: Eiko Ito Papach,-flu[t· 
Melissa Bohl, olioe; To 
Spano, clarinet; James Tod , 
horn; and Gary Papac , 
bassoon. ; 
Tomorrow's program _in­
cludes four works represennog 
a variety of styles a!ld periods:f 
William Cerny, chatrman of tht: 
Notre Dame music department; 
wW join the quintet in ~ 
performance '?f the Sextet fo~ 
piano and wmds by Gordor1 
Jacob a 20th century English 
comp~ser. Beethoven's 
Quintet in Eb, arranged from 
the sextet, op. 71 for winds, is. 
from the Classical :Period. 
l. 
1 
J 


~------~----.-------~--~--~--~--------------------~----------~---------­
The Observer 

Tuesday, AprillO, 1979-page 5 
Death toll reaches 86 





Iran continues executions 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP)-Six work after a three-week suspen­more "enemies of the revolu­sion. Among them was former tion," including an American­Prime Minister Amir Abbas trained air force chief, fell Hove ida. before firing squads yesterday Islamic militiamen, mean­
while, continued to hunt downas lslamiL cuuns continued to 152 persons on a list of wantedexact then swift, methodical persons issued bY. the revolu­retribution fro"1 members of tionary regime. The nationalthe old regime. 
news agency said yesterdayBesides the six, unconfirmed that two former senarors fromreports said four policemen 
the southwestern town of 
were executed in rl,e south­Ahwaz had been detained forwestern city of Behba. an. 
questioning.
The 10 new deaths would More than 5,000 l?eople arebring to 86 the number of men believed to be in Iraman jails asshot by firing squads since the a result of the revolutionarymass movement led by Moslem purge, many apparently await­clergyman Ruhollah Khomeini mg trials before the all-power­toppled the monarchy of the ful revolutionary courts estab­now-exiled Shah Mohammad lished by Khomeini.
Reza Pahlavi in mid-February. 
Executed in Tehran's QasrA total of 19 have been Prison early yesterday were 
confirmed executed since last former air force commander Thursday, when the largely Gen. Amir Hossein Rabii; Dr. secret tribunal~ resumed their Manuchehr Azmun, a former 
• • • Trial 
[continued fro1!J page 1] 
in the University's employ. Freedman said this was because the 
two transfered to research postions at the Radiation Laboratory 
after turning 65. , 
The plaintiff cited the statistic that 27 out of 81 faculty members of retirement age continued full-time with the University after reaching 65, thus seemingly proving that Notre Dame's retirement policy was not consistent for all faculty members. 
Kusbach pressed Freeman, who was chairman of the Chemistry department when Danehy requested a continuation of his contract, on the existence of any written guidelines on how the CAP is supposed to evaluate applications such as Danehy's. Freeman satd none existed outside those contained in the Faculty Handbook. 
The third major area of contention wls the matter of due process. The plaintiff argued that Danehy did not know how to go about preparing his case for re-appointment because of the lack of written guidelines concerning the evaluation process. Freeman defended himself by saying that Danehy's application for re-appointment proceded through the proper channels. From the CAP, whose members all knew Danehy, his application went through the dean of the college of Science, to the provost, and finally to the president of the University. Danehy also lost an a.Ppeal for re-appointment to Burtchaell, who was Provost at the ttme. 
In summarizin~ his case, Kusbach said that Notre Dame's retirement policy ts not mandatory since one-third (27 of 81) of the 65-year-old faculty members remained in the full-time employ of the University. ..­
"At the very best," Kusbach said, "according to the Faculty Manual, a man at 65 loses his tenure. He is no longer protected, because he must apply year by year for re-appointment.'' 
He continually criticized the handling of Professors Burton and Hamill, calling their re-appointment a "sloppy procedure." He called the process "too loose and too unclear." He deemed the procedure "a hunt and pick method," through which the University picks whichever faculty members the department wants. Freeman had said that the CAP "tempers compassion with a sober assessment of the needs of the department.' 

Murray's summary of the defense's position dealt with the flexibility of the University's retirement policy ""and the contract aspects of the case. He said due process had been followed in Danehy' s case because Danehy testified that he had done everything he thought he should m filing for a continuation of his contract. 
He denied the alle~ation that the University's retirement policy had evolved from a' rigid" one to a "flexible" one, commenting that the retirement ~_>rovisions in the 1954 and 1972 Faculty Handbooks are essenttally the same. 
Calling the trial "a simple contract case," Murray claimed that Danehy entered into a contract with the University in 1956. He said the contract was renewed in 1972 when Danehy was promoted. 
Kusbach said he expected a verdict from Judge McLoughlin "within a week." 



tJ an ~Os-c:al 
SMC football 
Wanted.· A 
Re~istration for An T ostal Girls Football at SMC must be Acts are needed for the An completed by April 18. Please Tostal Impersonations labor minister and one-time chief of the national news agency; Gen. Mohammad Ali Khaiohnuri, a former section chief under the army chief of staff, and a: police constable identified only as Balili. 

Specifics of the charges brought against the four in their eight-hour trial were not dis­closed by state radio, but it described them all as "corrupt to the core" and "traitors to the Iranian people.'' The Ettelaat newspaper said they were accused of directly participating in, ordering, or aiding and abetting the killing of anti-shah demonstrators. 
Gen. Rabii, 48, had turned himself in to revolutionary authorities Feb. 11, the day they took power. He declared himself on the side of the revolutionaries after reportedly ordering loyal units earlier to fire on air force dissidents and civilian demonstrators. 
Government broadcasts said two formt>r local officials of the shah's savak secret police were executed in two J.Jrovmcial cities yesterday, one of them shot in a cemetery beside the graves of anti-shah activists killed during 


FRESHMEN!
the year-long popular uprising. In another development yes­terday, state radio announced 

All freshmen interested in becoming
that oil production had risen to 

involved with next year's
about 4 mi!lion barrels daily, double rht> rate of production tn early March. when Iran re­sumed oil exports after a more 

SOPHOMORE liTERARY FESTIVAL 
than two-month suspen&ion. The radio said all but 700,000 barrels a day is slated for export 

should sign the list located in the 
to foreign consumers. Revolutionary authorities 

office of undergraduate Englishearlier said they would put a 3-million-barrel-a-day ceiling 
(Rm. 309 O'Shag) No later 
on daily oil production. The 

tho, Wednesday, April 11 .
Iranian oil cutoff was a major factor behind the recent sharp rise in world oil prices. 

PR€-aOvanc€ R€41StRatJon pRoqRam 
Pre-advance registration programs will be conducted for freshmen in all college program areas on Tuesday, APRIL, 17 at 6:30P.M. 
At each program complete information will be given on the advance registration procedures and on the sophom~re year..and its relationship to the degree curriculum. 
Thee meeting places for the programs, according to college program area, are as follows: 
Arts and Letters College Programs (all, including AL Preprofessional) 
Engineering Auditorium 
Business Administration College Program 
Hayes-Healy Center, Room 122, A through Gat 6:30P.M. H through 0 at 7:30 P.M. P through Z at 8:30P.M. 
Engineering College Programs 
Aerospace Engineering Bldg., Room 303 
Architecture Architecture Bldg., Room 202 
Chemical Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 123 
Civil Engineering Bldg., Room 205 
Electrical Engineering Bldg., Room 212 
Engineering Science Engineering Bldg., Room 22 
Mechanical Engineering Bldg., Room 303 
Metallurgical Engineering Bldg., Room 105 
Science College Programs Galvin Life Science Center, Room 278Biology Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 341Chemistry Earth Science Bldg., Room 101Earth Sciences Computing Center & Math Bldg., Room 300Mathematics Galvm Life Science Center, Room 102Microbiology Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 327Physics Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 127
Preprofessional (Science only) 

have rosters ready. Call Gene on Friday, April 27. 
All FRESHMEN ARE REQUIRED TO ATIEND 1HE PROGRAM OF 1HE COUEGE OR
Woloshyn at 1050. information, call 3793. 
DEPARTMENT THEY INTEND TO ENTER IN THE SOPHOMORE YEAR 
~~--~---~----~-----------....... 
The Observer Tuesday, April 10, 1979 -page 6 

Thousands 
•
remam displaced in derailment 
CRESTVIEW, Fla. (AP)· thousands of Florida Panhandle residents, forced from their homes Sunday by toxic yellow­ish-black fumes billowing from the area's latest chemical-train derailment, awaited word today on when thc~y might be able to return. 
Meanwhile, Secretary of Transportation Brock Adams. said he had ordered the head of the Federall Railroad Admini­stration to the scene of the Louisville & Nashville Rail­road's latest accident involving hazardous cargo. 
' About 4,500 people were driven out of an SO-square-mile area surrounding the pileup and spent the night in tempo­rary shelters at schools and National Guard armories. Some were allowed to return home yesterday, and Tom Nichols, director of the Okaloo­sa County Civil Defense team, said officials were considering letting everyone return except those living within four miles of the wreck. 
In another development, a spokeswoman for the House Transportation and Commerce subcommittee ~haired by U.S. rep. James]. Florio, D-N.]., 
said the committee would deal with the accident at hearings today. 
The evacuation came after 28 cars of a Louisville & Nashville freight train, almost all carrying toxic chemicals, tumbled off the rails Sunday in a wooded, swampy area west of Crest­view. The train was en route from New Orleans to ) ackson­ville. 
There was at least one explo­sion-which left one car peeled open and flattened and various gases began spewing from the three or four cars that ruptured. 
There was only one minor injury. 
Among the chemicals spilled, burned and spewed into the air were acetone, carbolic acid, ammonia and small amounts of cholorine, officials said. By midday yesterday, however, most of the gas that had been in the damaged tank cars was 
expended. 
Charles Hickman, a 60-year­old Civil Servi<.c worker from nearby Eglin Air Force Base, was strolling on the Yellow River when he saw the train rumbling across the trestle. 
''The cars just started piling off the track,'' Hickman said 


yesterday from a hospital bed where he was treated for inhal­ing fumes. "I just can't explain it. You ever had the idea of two or three trains running into each other? That's what it sounded like." 
Last May, a derailment on the other side of Crestview prompted a smaller evacuation. 
Last year in Youngstown, about 75 miles away, eight people died in a derailment of a Lowsville & Nashville chemical train. 
The latest wreck came just two days after the Federal Railroad Administration lifted a 30-mph speed limit along the section of track near Crestview. 
Federal officials, citing 121 Louisville & Nashville wrecks; as of last July, said the railroad had the worst record of any in the country for handling haz­ardous materials. 

Railroad spokesman Kenneth Dufford sa1d the tracks in question had been inspected by the railroad on Friday. Asked if he were satisfied with the firm's safety record, he said: "Yes sir." 
Lucey to explain fallout 
] ohn W. Lucey, associate professor of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering, will explain the Three Mile Island nuclear accident during a lect· ure tomorrow at 4:20 p.m. in 
room 118, Niewland Science Hall. Lucey has detailed slides of a 
MAKE SURE YOUR VACATION 
DOESN'T TAKE OFF WITHOUT YOU. 
Babcock & Wilcox nuclear fac­ility in Ocomee, S. Car., which 
There's nothing lonelier than being left behind at vacation time. 
is very similar to the reactor the company designed at Three

That's why we've got Continental Reps right on campus. Our travel 
Mile Island. He will describe
specialists fill you in on schedules, discount airfares, tours and routes. And save 

consequences l•f the accident, you from calling all ovc~r town to get the right flight at the right price. 
the amount of radiation releas­ed and its effects physical and

Whether you're hc~ading home or off to that special vacation, talk to your 
financial damage 'to the plant,
Campus Rep. Ask about our "Let Yourself Go" charge card too. We'll show you 

and reasons for evacuating the best way for your vacation to take off. With you there to enjoy it. 
certain residents of the area. The ralk is sno<1sored by the
Your Campus Rep is Don Ciancio (219) 283-4682. 

Department of Physics and is open to the public. 



Students to collect 
The Proud Bird with the GoldenTail. 

CAP material 
Pre-registration material for


CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 8 
the students on the Committee on Academic Progress (CAP)
North America/Hawaii/Micronesia/Orient/Australia/NewZealand/Fiji/Samoa 
will be available today through tomorrow in room 346 m 0'Shaughnessy. 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board 
The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Features Editor .......Chris Stewart represent the opinmn of a majorit~ of Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian 
Box.Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentanes, Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales opinions and ·letters are the ~iews ~f Senior Copy Editor: ..... K .. Connel~y 
~ he Observer is an independent their authors. Column space ts avail­Executive News Edttor ....Mtke Lewts Business Manager .....Steve Odland newspaper published by students of able to all members of the community, News Editor ............ Mark Rust Production Manager ....Tim Sullivan the Umversity of Notre Dame and and the· free expression of varying News Editor .......... .Mike Shields Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is Saint Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ..... .Bob Rudy necessarily reflect the policies of the encoura:ged. Sports Editor ...........Mark Perry Controller ........... John Tucker 


_The Observer_ 
·o . 




Features 
Tuesday, AprillO, 1979 -page 7 
-----~~-------------------------------~------------------~~------~-.----~----~­
LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 

The Woman Who Loved John Wesley 

My great, great grandmother, I was 
told as a child, was one of the women 
who loved John Wesley, the founder of 
the Methodists. Nobody ever told me1 
as a child, if John Wesley also lovea 
my great, great grandmother; or, if he 
did llove lier. whether it was church· 
love, or courting-love, or simQiy the 
J>.astoral love a preacher might lee! for 
the ladies who feed him beans at 
parish suppers. All I heard, as a child, 
was that (llY grandmother's Nana was 
a woman Wesley read the Scriptures to 
as though they were love letters from 
the Son of God· and she adored 
Wesley as much lor the dark damn· 
ations of Romans as she did for the 
poetic eroticism of the Song ofSongs. 
Every family needs a samt for the 
sake of its spintual genetics; and all of 
my ancestors, at an early age, pro­
fessed a faith in Christ as Saviou;.·, if 
the notations in old Bibles can be 
believed, as though Wesleyanism was 
in their blood streams. 
"The New Testament had been 
explained to her by Mr. Wesley," my 
grandmother said. "She knew her 
Bible better than the preachers or­
dained for the pulpit, ana she insisted 
on her family t>elieving it. She'd pray 
over them every night. She'd make 
them learn Scripture verses every day, 
until they knew all the Promises by
heart." 
"Didn't none of them ever back­slide Nana?" I would ask. Backslid­ing, i knew, was a sin that _grieved the heart of Christ; but if you'Citaken him as Saviour, He would redee n you in spite of apostasy, though backsliding seemed spiritually gauche·. 
"She would have planted worms in your conscience," my Nana said, "if she ever knew you. d grown lukewarm, 
not keeping the Bible as a lamp unto 
your feet. ·some of the menfolk tried 
tt, off in their boats to Boston and New 
Bedford, swearing and gambling and 
drinking. But the Lord rebuked them, 
and they all said it was grandmother, 
workif!g on the Lord's side, that made 
them feel rebuked." 

I could see the Yankee fishermen, 
gl~sses _in hand, cursing their luck at 
poker, being sent off packing to a 
prayer meetmg by a moral presence, 
shimmering wtth light and anger, who 
wacked them over the head with an 
umbrella of salvation. 
Great, great grandmother had met 
John Wesley when she'd gone to hear 
bim preach. "She said she'd been a 
thou~htless young girl," Nana told 
me, 'worldly, frivolous, vain. It was 
hard for me to imagine my grand­
mother as ever frivolous; perhaps 
because she was English, she never 
seemed frivolous. Wesley's preaching 
changed her whole life, though he was 
an old man then, nearly eighty. After 
that, she tried to stay as near to him as 
she could, until his death, when she 
came to America." 

My Nana hugged me as though she 
were afraid of her own memories. 
"Wh~n I was a child, I thought
grandmother could walk on water. 
1 
thought she could give back breath to folks who had died, if she wanted too. I had her mixed up in my mind, you see, with the Lord." 
''Did you also think she had scars in 
her hands and her feet?" I said. The scars, for me, were the detail about Jesus that made Him special. I never beard of anyone else who had been wounded with nails. 
My grandmother laughed. ''I knew 
better than that," she said. "But 
everyone has scars. Grandmother had 
them, too, but she kept them in her 
heart. She never showed the family 
the places in her heart where the scars 
were kept.'' 
My Nana died in 1941, a lady whom 
I adored as my best teacher in Christ 
even as she adored her grandmother i~ 
the same way. The Bibles Nana had 
kept were now given to me. As a 
young teen-ager, I wasn't in a hurry to 
read those Bibles, as Nana knew I 
wouldn't be. It was years before I 
realized that on those ~oly [>ages, 
Nana had entrusted me w1th a family 
secret. 
Among the birth dates and death 
dates ot the family members was a 
terse remembrance: Born to 
Katherine Margaret, in St. John's 
parish, London, on March 15, 1781: a 
son; died without name on the same 
day. 
In 1781, Katherine Margaret, my great, great grandmother, would have been seventeen years old. She had never married until she had come to America, nearly ten years later. The son, born to her without a name, could never have had a legitimate father This, then, I knew must be the scar that my Nana said Katherine Margaret ke[>_t h1dden in her heart. · 
The message that the great Protes­tamt evangefists preach is of Jesus Crucified. We come to the wounded Saviour trusting that our infirmities will be nealed in His infirmities. 
It was such a message, I am sure that my Nana's grandmother heard preached by the evangelist John Wesley, whom she afterwards foved 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
until his death. From him, she heard 
assurances that saved her, promises 
that gave her hope. A discouraged 
young woman--full of her own regrets· 
unhappy, grieving for the deatfi of ~ 
fatherless infant--met a Jesus­
preacher in love with God who offered 
her graces for a re-birth into inno­
cenc~. Through his minis~, under an 
Enghsh sky, on a Devonshire hillside 
she f9und in Christ the comfort of 
salvation and P.eace, and her life explo.ded into a aeclaration for God. 
It 1s, as the Baptist hymn says "The old, old, story." I want~d you' in this Holy Week, to hear the old old story. I don't think. my great, great grandmother would mind your hearing her story, because it is Christ's story··Christ's story and John Wesley's story, and for ~II I know, part of my own story as well. 
Happy Easter from Darby O'Gill and 
me. 


Apology 
Yesterday The Observer fea­tures page published a column entitled "The Talking Head." Due to an editing error, this column contained statements which were libelous to the residents of Howard Hall. The Observer apologizes to these residents and to all members of the ND-SMC community who were offended by these state­ments. 
The Ramones: Back-to-Basics Rock 
I'm not rea.IJy tJ"ie ambitious type, 
but after seeing a recent punk revtew 
in The Obsertver, I picked up on 
several staterllents which deserve 
examination. I speak of the foui-th; 
most recent, and best LP, "Road to 
Ruin", by the American punk band-­
The Ramones. 
The Ramones don't advocate "masochistic autodestruction;" rather they have triggered an explosion of back-to-basics, simple (but not sim­plistic) rock. Thetr inspired indivi­dualism influenced those nihilistic English punkers who helped them revitalize an increasingly boring, uninspired musical scene. It was thts second wave of punk-· The Sex Pistols in particular--which often sunk into self-destructive self-parody. How­ever, they also created some of the most vital and seminal music of this decade, a fact often overshadowed by their appalling public behavior. 
It must be remembered that youth's frustration with then popular music generated rock'n'roll m the 50's. During the mid 60's, many bands lost si~ht of these origins, and by the late 60 sand 70's frustration was primarily channeled into physical violence; popular music evolved, with some notable exce{ltions, into an entertain­ing but emottonally bereft product. 
Into this musical void stepped punk, altering the violence from physical to musical. The music combined the aggression, emotion and decadence of the early Who and Stones with the warped pop sensibilities of the Kinks and New York Dolls. This fusion is intense but not always very accessible. 
Indeed, the Ramones, whose intricate harmonies suggest a deranged, schizoid version of the Beach Boys, are an acquired taste. 
But lilce it or not, punk has revitalized today's music. Much of New Wave (a marriage of punk and pop) is a trashy attempt to cash m on 
the publicity the style has received, 
with little creativity or musical worth. 
However, good New Wave (this is not 
a contradiction in terms); Elvis 
Costello, Nick Lowe, The Clash, 
Talking Heads, Cheap Trick, the Cars, 
Devo and others, make some of 
today's most exciting music. 
In addition, the punks' aggression 
and criticism of ''those bonng, irrele­
vant old tarts" inspired the Rolling 
Stones and The Who to their best 
efforts in many years. 

From their beginnings in 1974, The 
Ramones have often lieen misunder­
stood. In the words of their producer, 
Tommy Erdelyi, "There was never 
anything like the Ramones before. It 
was a new way of looking at music. 
We took the rock sound into a 
psychotic world and narrowed it down 
mto a straight line of energy ... we had 
a perspective of non-musicality and 
intelligence that takes over for 
musicianship.'' 

The group members are gaunt, pale, and bizzare-looking. Lead singer Joey Ramone is often singled out as the chief buffoon. However the Ramones understand and successfully satirize their derelict's lifestyle. A distinctive bludgeoning wave of sound character­izes most punk groups, yet the Ramones have gone further than noise for the sake of noise. 
Block chording is used as a melodic device, with countermelodies created by the harmonics from amplifier dtstortion. The wall of sound carries its own melody, a song within a song from a droning block of chords. 
Repetition ofmusic and lyrics creates a distinctive, captivating effect, as Joey's vocals leap out and assault the listener. The driving rhythms fashioned by bassist Dee Dee Ramone and drummer Marky Ramone relent­lessly drive the music to the outer limits ofcontrol. Erdelyi comP.ared the 
music to a ''sonic machine, ' adding 
"It's very sensual. You can put 
headphones on and just swim with u. · It's not backgroung music." 
Ramones songs always command 
attention, and as the band's musician­
ship improves and evolves, the critical 
and popular raves are increasing. Dee 
Dee s lumbering bass lines are deft; 
Johnny Ramone' guitar work is 
matured and refined, while maintain­
ing its lovable chunkiness; Marky's 
drums drive the band more reliably 
and creatively than ever, and voice 
lessons have improved Joey's 
phrasing and confidence, allowing him 
to make some truly daring pop vocal 
moves. The characteristic/ure power 
chords and unrefined soun have been 
supplemented by some competent 
solos and even something sounding 
like a 12-string guitar. This unique 
growth makes Road to Ruin an album 
to be reckoned with. 
Joey is even able to carry a couple of 
ballads (? !), although Questioningly 
seems a bit sentimental and contrived. 
He sounds like a deranged Brian 
Wison-Eric Carmen clone on speed, 
with a nasal quality that seems shaped 
by years of glue sniffing. Basically, 
you'll love or hate it. 
The standout rune among a slew of 
excellent songs is "I Wanna Be 
Sedated,'' evoking both bubble gum 
rock and Alice Cooper in his heyday. It 
may be one of the most menacing 
songs on record, and overshadows 
even their earlier gems like ''Cretin 
Hop," "Loudmouth," and "Blitzkreig 
Bop." Close behind is "Don't Come 
Close," the most "pop" song they've 
ever done (with the possible exception 
of "Rockaway Beach") and it cuts 
anything_ currently on AM radio to 
shreds. The Ramones' knack for hooks 
and catchy chord progressions is 
evident, and Johnny's restrained 
Steve Nava1Te 
guitar work sparkles. 
"I Just Want to Have Something to 
Do," the album's opener, could be the 
Ram ones' theme song, and exudes a 
refreshing conviction and sincerity. 
From this impressive beginnning, the 
group easily and fre<_~uendy shifts 
gears. Evidence of this as the raucous, 
angry "I'm Against It," where the 
boys beat the Sex Pistols at their own 
game. Marky and Johnny have the 
sound down pat; Dee Dee ,Plays circles 
around the late Sid Vtcious (who 
couldn't?) while Joey fumes lyrics that 
easily top the Britishers. 
Joey makes Johnny Rotten look lilce a minor leaguer as he roars "I don't lilce playingfing pong/ I don't lilce the Viet Cong I don t like Burger King I I don't like anything/ And rm agatnst it,'' making a convincing argument 
that punk is alive and well. 
"Needles and Pins," an old Searchers song, and thee current single, shows their versatility, as they recreate the background almost note for note, but the rhythm section's intensity and a haunting vocal make the song seem to be written especially for the Ramones. Although probably doomed to a short stay at the bottom of the charts, the song is almost as much fun as 1977's classic "Sheena Is A Punk Rocker." 
''I Don't Want You'' builds intensity 
to the point where one wonders just 
how far these mutants can go, and 
although they never quite reach their 
limits, losing a chance to fashion a 
good song, they clearly show that the 
future should be very -bright. "She's 
the One'' somehow evokes the 
Springsteen effort by the same name. 
It's the understanding of what rock 
is that makes these folks from Forest 
Hills, NY so important. You can love 
them or hate them. But this band and 
this album will have more to say 
about what directions rock will take in 
the 1980's . 

• 


~-----.._.. _....._______ -~_..._,.__... ----~----~ 
r 
The Observer Tuesday, April 10, 1979-page 8 
I • l 
I 
r 
I 


1£,1978 Miller Brewing Co., Milwaukee, Wis. 
' i 
. 

----~~~--~-~-~----'-----___,__----'----~~--­
The Observer Tuesday, April 10, 1979 -page 9 
.----------------------------­
Kahn warns of recession; ITALY This Summetl 
The Program of the Rne Arts and





citizens' crusade ..begins 
Architecture Departments 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A Powell satd Kahn m. no way l he AFL-CIO has said since 
June 18 to Julu 14

nationwide citizens' crusade meant to imply that thts. prest-the guideline announcement 
against rising prices got under­way yesterday with President Carter's chief inflation fighter saying if voluntary anti-inflat­ion efforts fail, it could lead to mandatory controls or a recess­ion. . 
But White House Press Sec­retary J ody Powell said Carter would not consider imposing mandatory controls. 
Alfred E. Kahn told some 250 labor leaders the alternatives to Carter's voluntary wage and price guidelines "are unthink­ably worse." 
Kahn told the group: ''There are a couple of commonly proposed alternatives that the president and I both feel are not acceptable.'' 
But, he added, "An honest person has to admit that if this (voluntary) program doesn't work, we may get one or another of those alternatives, whether we like it or not. 
"We may get the one that some of you say you want-mandatory controls. With the mood of the country the way it is today, however, and the way it is likely to be if this inflation continues unabated, we may get the one that neither you nor· I wants. 
"I refer, of course, to the option of clamping dowri on the economy so severly that we bring on a serious recession and throw millions of people out of work-your people-m a repeat of 1974-75. The president is determined not to use recession as a tool to cure inflation... 
"The President is equally determined not to resort to the second method of restraining those excessive demands-mandatory wage and price con­trois. 
Desrite Kahn's comments, Powel said "absolutely not" when asked if Carter was thinking of asking Congress for authority to impose mandatory controls. 
dent would under any ctrcu~­stances impose wage and pnce controls." 

Kahn's st~tement c!lme as the AFL-CIO ktcked off tts Ope~at­ion Price Watch. The openmg rally wa~ held beneath a large red, white .and blue ~anner reading "Bnng down P,rtces!!! An AFL-CIO commumty ser­vice." 

"B · d . 
rmg OWO prtces !" 
The price watch was institut­ed AFL-CIO President George Meany told the rally, to allow "thousands of union members across America to be the eyes and ears for the administrat­ion's inflation fighters." 

The crusade also will involve COIN (Consumers Opposed to Inflation in the Necessities), a Washington-based coalition of some 60 labor, consumer, min­ority and senior citizen ~roups. 
Particifants will momtor the prices o food, housing, fuel and medical care-which toget­her make up more than 70 percent of the average family's expenditures. 
A similar effort in the early 1970s, President Ford's Whip Inflation Now program, ended in disarrary when the 1974-75 recession hit. 
The new price watch, which will augment the Council on Wage and Price Stability's own monitoring, comes as the Carter Administration is facing tough challe.nges to its volunt­ary wage-pnce program. 
The Teamsters union is on strike for a new contract that experts say could exceed the wage limit. And the president announced last week that the plans to decontrol domestic oil prices, which would lead to higher fuel prices and could result in windfall oil-company profits if Congress does not agree to an excess profits tax. 

• Summary 


Couldyou be a nuclear expert? 
(If so., you could earn more than $650 a month your· Senior year.) 
i 
\ 
' 

What then? After graduation, you 11Even if you're a .Junior engineering get nuclear training from the men who or physical science major, it's not too run more than 70% of the nuclearearly to start thinking about your reactors · in the country---Navy men. 
career. And if you think you've got And an opportunity to apply thatwhat it takes to become an expert in training in the Navy's nuclear-powered nuclear power, the Navy has a special fleet. 
program you should look into right Only about 200 men will be chosen away. 
for this program this year. So, ifWhy right away? Because if you're you're interested, see us on campusselected, we'll pay you more than in the Placement Office,$650 a month during your Senior year. 
APRIL 11 and'12.
(If you are presently a Senior, you can Or, call us collect. Our' number isstill join the program.) 
(312) 657-2169 
Be someone special in the Nuclear Navy. 
... 

[continued from page 2 
gested later that the discrel'an­cy represents "a scientist's terminology" versus "the ter­minolo~y used by a Cambridge theologian.'' 
Murray, though his questions tried to show that the Univer­sity's procedure for dealing with cases like Danehy's was consistent and fairly applied. Burtcheall said that, while Hamill and Burton were reap­pointed without a review, they were no longer teaching at the University: they were reap­pointed as full-time "research­ers" at the Radiation Labora­tory. Freeman had earlier made this distinction, saying that even though they retamed the rank of Chemistry Profes­sor, they were no longer con­sidered members of his depart­ment. And, according to Butt­chaell, "the Univeristy is free to retire persons from depart­ment X and rehire them in department Y. 
LEGAL PRECEDENTS: 
Only one precedent was al­luded to during the trial, and even that case was not actually "cited." The case of Ambrose Klain, a former professor at Penn State, was broughtto the auemion of the court by Mur­ray, who did not actually "cite" the case because he did not have the information readily available. Klain's suit, which was heard by the same Harris­burg Regional Court judge who ruled a~ainst the Berri~an brothers m the early seventies, charged that he was unfairly retired when he reached 65. The case failed, pending ap­peal. 


Bureau names Witmer 
Sylvia Whitmer, assistant professor in the department of education at Saint Mary~s, has been named to the speakers bureau of Governor Otis Bowen's Committee for the International Year of the Child. 

She has also been named to the advisory board of the education component of Project Head Start in South Bend and to the public relations committee of the Community Coordinated Child Care of St. Joseph County~s observance of "the International Year of the Child. 
last October that the voluntary program to limit wage increases to 7 percent while prices rose at much higher rates is discrimin­atory. "We've said time and again that they (the guides) are unfair and, of course, they aren't working," Meany said. 
"Frankly, we believe that mandatory, across-the-board controls on the price of every­thing and the income of every-body-in this particular period of time-would be more equitable and more enforceable," he continued. ''In fact, we believe that Operation Price Watch will prove that point." 
Meany said a five-month pilot price-check program already shows "it is not work­ing and that inflation is worse for the very items working families need and use the most," such as food and medicine. 
Kahn and others who addres­sed the group, including Sen. Howard M. Metzenbaum,D­Ohio, and Ester Peterson, the president's consumer adviser, welcomed labor's participation in price monitoring. 
Kahn pointed out that the Council on Wage and Price Stability has ti~htened its price ~uidelines, whtch call for price mcreases no more than half a percentage point below the averageof the last two years, and he said it has started a state and local government anti­inflation program. 
"I have already conceded that Price Watch is not going to end inflation all by itself," Kahn said. "But it is nevertheless an important part of the fight." 
He conunued: "First of all, the fact that well-organized, informed consumers all over the country will be goin~ out systematically monitonng prices and asking questions cannot help but make business people .particularly careful about the prices-they charge, ... Second, the information you provide ~ill be v~ry ~;~seful to us m our pnce momtonng. 
6 Credit Hours 

If y~u ~ould hke to know. m~re about. this program you are tnvtted to attend a bnef tnfonnanonal meeting at 4 
p.m. in the Architecture Auditorium on Wednesday AprillO. ' 
----------------------------~­

sunbay mass€s at saCR€b h€aRt ChURCh 

€aSt€R sunbay 
' '  
9:15 a.m. Sunday 10:30 a.m. Sunday 12:15 p.m. Sunday  Rev. Richard Conyers, C.S.C. Rev. John C. Gerber, C.S.C. Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C.  
7:15p.m. Vespers  Rev. John C Gerber, C.S.C.  


Calf 291-3150 
TEST Plfi'AUTIOIII SI!£CIALIST$ SIIIC£ 1131 For lnfonnatian About Other c.nters In Morw ThaA 10 llajor US Cities & Mroad Outside NY St.te CAlL nu FIIU: --JD-1712 
I 



The Observer -Sports '[uesday, April10, 1979-page 10 
bv Kevin Connor and rough contact in the serum The N.D. S-D half-rime lead This put the Irish back on toptmd Rich Harper play. was quicklv erao.;ed hv an in­12-9. Sports W'n'ters Early in the contest it appear­spired 2nd halt Terre Haute Club Stellar defense by the Notre 
ed that the Irish ruggers would with a try, rhe kil'k afrer and a Dame scrummies prevented 2 
walk away with an easy victory field goal resulting in a 9-8 near Terre Haute tries. Jim The Notre Dame ··A'' Rughv as Kevin ·'Corky'' Corcoran Terre Haute lead. But the Irish "Bowhooter" Bowers tipped a Team defeated the hard hittmg and Ma11 "013'' O'Brien each were not to be denied. A fleet pass into the outstretchea arms 
Irish ruggers 

topple 

Terre Haure Rugby Club 16-9 ;scored a rry putting the Irish footed H.J. Hanigan and a of Mike "P.F." Allair, who last Saturday at Stephan pitch. ahead 8-0. Tom Bosche's rambling Rico Harper spear­then drove into the endzone for The game was a mixture of normally automatic kicks after headed a tenacious Irish come­the final score of the day.
Terre Haute excellent running and passing trys were foiled by a bitter back that culminated in The "A" game was preceded by the backfields of both teams wtnter wind. Harper's bizarre 2 yard plunge. by a "B" and "C" team 
ACROSS 28 Loch-46 Spiral 22 Kiln 1 Minecar 29 Literary 48 Agreement 23 Nuisance 5 Port-monogram 50 Marquis 24 Le Havre 9 Notin 32 Overweight de-hat

The Daily Crossword 
harmony 33 Insertion 51 Belgian 25 Rustler's 13 Noted Eng­mark city concern 
lish duke 34 Still 54 Bridge 26 More com­16 Additional 35 Position section --patent17 Fill with 36 Skeletal 55 German 27 Famous 
life parts president French 18 Dayton's 37 Jewish 58 Indirect author state month suggestion 28 Walker or 19 Tibetan 38 Homily: 59 Begins anew Sinatra gazelle abbr. 60 Within: 30 Depended 20 December 39 Pamphlet pref. 31 Wander 
song 40 Sphere 61 Periods 33 Fuels 21 Heaps 41 Work unit 62 Family man 36 Inhalations 23 Calumet 42 Have faith 37 Seed cover 24 Oppose 43 Full of DOWN 39 Triplet 
boldly fluff 1 Shoot 40 Strangers 25 Actress 44 Inventor 2 Casino 45 Slowly, in Debra Howe center music 3 Thomas­46 Group of 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved:· 
Edison trained 4 1051, in workers 
Italia 47 "Golden 5 Benosy Boy" play­6 Harmonize wright 7 Typeof 48 Court 
type: abbr. celebrity 8 Period 49 Motor trip g· Romance 50 Hinder 
10 English 51 Fiji port 52 School, 11 poet·Like the for short 
Gobi 53 City on the 12 Cars of old Jumna 14 Take fire 56 Give­

a=~;;;;::==;;;;:~~=:i 15 Agents of chance AR Rights Reserved 
4/10/79 retribution 57 Strike 

Molarity 


Michael Molinelli 
scrimmage, filled with all the pageantry of a regular game. The final score was 14-4, as trys were scored by Tim Pearle, Mike ~'Kirby'' Muldoon and Glenn Hank for the "B" team and by Tim McKeough for the "C" team. Herb "leadfoot" Gloss added a kick after a try for the B squad. The Irish Ruggers travel to St. Louis for thetr next game to participate in the annual Easter Ruggerfest. 
Interhall B-ball playoff tonight 
In interhall basketball action Sunday night, Sorin defeated Dillon 46-36 to win the Division II championship. 
Howard upset Morrissey 53· 47 causing a tie for first place in Division I play. 
The play off game between Howard and Morrissey will take place tonight at 7 p.m. in the ACC pit. 
••• Lacrosse 
[continued from page 11)
Hl)JJ num 


IS A uOCJ',STRAP? 

years." As a result, Notre Dame is controlling the entire field of play. Agamst Purdue, the Irish defense of John Mandico, Jimmy Ray Williams, and John Vercruzysse stopped ten of eleven Boilermaker man­up situations with strong posit­ional play and excellent clear­ing passes, Midfielder Tim Mtchels added to Notre Dame's dominance by taking a pheno­menall9of 20 faceoffs in sloppy field conditions. 
Defenseman Mandico felt that the Irish are beginning to play the "finesse game" that resembles the brand of lacrosse


Jim Canavan



~oddy 



St. mary's College Student Government Speaker ~•eries Presents: 
John R. Powers Authot of The Last Catholic in Ametica and Do Patent Lec~thet Shoes Really Reflect Up? Tuesday AptiiiO Little Theatte, ffioteau 
I 

8:00 Pflll FREE Admission 


ARmANDO'S 

BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 1437 N .Ironwood Dr. South Bend 
277-0615 

Sue, Ruthie, Kim 
Armando-stylist 

mon-fri 8-5:30 sat 8-2 by appt. only sat-no appt. needed 
_L----------------------------~~--------------------~ 
played in the east. He added, 
''A lot of teams (in the mid-­
west) try to make up for the 
finesse with a lot of contact. 
We've pulled together as a 
team this year and used control 
in our game." 

Co-cap rain Gray added, ''Our 
ability to come up wirh the loose 
ball has made-our fa~t break. In 
the unsettled .... iruarion--we've 
been the be.... t. We haven't 
been behind veL .. 

Next Wednesday, the club travels to Ann Ar.bor to face the always tough Wolverines of Michigan. 





Today's Crossword solution 

The Observer -Sports 


Lacrosse Oub defeats Albion, Purdue to increase record to 6-0 
by Gary Grassey Sports Writer 

This past week the Notre Dame Lacrosse Club easily defeated rival clubs from Albion College and Purdue University by scores of 11·5 and 12-3, respectively, to up their season record to a perfect 6-0 mark. 
The Irish stickmen have shown considerable improve­ment in their play from last year's 6-7 campaign. In both games last week, Notre Dame dominated in all p'qses of the matdH:s. 
The offense for Notre Dame has been triggered by the play of senior anackmen Tim Walsh (President) and John Romanelli (co-captain) and the first mid­field of John Grey (co-captain), Mike Norton, and Paul Rizzo. 
Against Albion, Romanelli ran the offense and tallied three assists. Junior attackman Mike Caron benefited from Romanelli's stickwork by scor­ing three goals. Rizzo and Gray combined for three goals and two assists. 
The overmatched Albion squad fell behind 7-1 halftime and never got any closer. 
•Coach Rich O'Leary praised the Irish balance and the im­r,rovement of his players 
'beyond basics into the finer points of the game. '' 
Those finer points have added up to a sohd defense and improved ball movement at the offensive end of the field. O'Leary rotates seven players on defense in front of first year goalie, Mark Talmadge, while usmg two talented lines at midfield. 
With everyone contributing, the Irish are now beating the better squads in the Midwest Lacrosse Club Association. Going into Sunday's game, Purdue was highly regarded. "We thought they were going to be a lot better than they were," remarked co-captian Gray, "since we had lost to them the last two years." 
Tim Walsh, motivated by some "sweet revenge" for those prior setbacks, went out and scored five goals against the Boilermakers. Romanelli contributed four assists in the 12-3 Irish barrage. Gray, Norton, and Rizzo totaled five goals and three assists. 
O'Leary noted, "we're pass­ing better than in previous 
(continued on page 10] 
-------------------~~------.... .. 
Tuesday, April 10, 1979-page 11 

Notre Dame's Lacrosse Club remains undefeated this season. 


a ----~--------------------~-----------~ 

Tuesday, April 10, -1979 -page 12 
Bobinski fires two-hitter as Irish split double header 
by Mike Henry Chris KendaH's base hit made 
Sports W nter it 3-1. A sacrifice fly by BiB 
Gra~ rounded out the inning's 
sconng. 

-For St. Mary's, Paul Hermus 
Righthander Mike Bobinski, in his ftrst outing since Notre showed surprising poise and a Dame's return from Florida , 
knuckle curve that baffled the threw a sterling two-hitter at St. Irish hitters in the early going. 
Mary's (Minnesota) and, Nom: Dame threatened i11 the backed, by Tommv Caruso's rbi fifth, loading the bases, but the single, pitched the Irish to a 1-0 uprising ended when Caruso victory in the ftrst half of a bounced to second. The lead 
twinbdl. Redmen freshman was cut to 4-2 on an odd play in Paul Hermus was the difference the sixth inning, with Mike in the nightcap, limitin~ the Jamieson on second and Ricky Irish to six hits in a 6-2 wm for Pullano on third and two outs, 
the visitors. 1\tark Stmendinger grounded to "NormaHy, I don't like to third. It was an-easy chance for pitch when it's this cold,'' a Walt Weisenburger, but he 
pleased Bobinski said after­inexplicably elected to trap ward. "My arm was ti~htening Jamieson in a rundown while up a little, but my shdec was Pullano dashed across the plate very effective and I was able to with the second run. J amteson keep it on the ground.·' In fact, really made things in_teresting fourteen of the Redmens' when he knocked the ball loose twenty-one outs came on on che play, bringing the go­
~~"und balls; Bobinski was · ahead run to the plate. ···clin·d with five assists on However, Dan Woellinger just ·, omebackers, including all got under a fastball and missed 
+ret' first toning putouts. St. giving the Irish the head bv Mary's was unable to get a about twenty feet. · runner past third base ·as the KeHy, who saw his team's Long Island senior turned their mark drop to 4-7, commented, bats to ash. ''I was happy with our pitching 
The Irish manufactured their and defense, but we've got to only tally m the second stanza. become more aggressive at the 
by Beth Huffman 
J tm Montagano coaxed a base plate. W"e've got to be ready to 
Women's Sports Editor 
on baHs from Tim Atwood and pounce on those fastballs. St. 
advanced on a sacrifice by Dave Mary's didn't htt a baH farther 
Barrish. . After Henry than 200 feet, but came up Saint Mary's softball team Valenzuela grounded out, there swinging the bat and 
erupted in a double header with Caruso singled sharply over managed twice as many hits offensive and defensive flair to 
second to give Bobinski the (12-6). 
outclass Ev~nsville College,margin he needed. Today, Notre Dame hosts 9-6, and Indtana Central Uni­
By the · time the second tilt Valparaiso in a doubleheader versity, 7-2 on Saturday.
began, many in the crowd beginning at 1 :00 pm. Mike In a pre-season intervtew the looked enviously at their feHow Deasey and Mark. Ladd are Belles' Coach Anthony Black patrons who had remembered slated to start for the Irish. If predicted his team would do to bring along a blanket. Their it's not snowing, grab a blanket well this season, but after discomfort grew as the Irish, and head on over to Jake Kline Saturday's double victory Black 
many times on the verge of Field. Admission is free. highlighted on the team's out-knocking Hermus out, persisted in leaving baserunners on (a total of 11 in the/arne). The 

Fencers .finish season with
Redmen strande 14 them­
selves, but were able to come 
up with a few more clutch hits eleventh in NIWFA .finals than Notre Dame. 
Bob Bartlett started for the 
b)' Beth Huffman in San Jose.
second rime in three days, and Women's Sports Editor The meet, which was won byfor a few innings, he managed San Jose State University for 
to wriggle out of trouble as In its first bid for a national the fifth consecutive year, was easily as he got into it. He left 
championship, the Notre Dame no disappointment to the foil 
ten ducks on the pond through ~'omen's fencing team came team o senior Karen Lacity,the ftrst four frames, but finally up short by finishing 11th in a juniors Dodee Carney and Liz faltered in the fifth. Manager field of 26 at the NIWF A ftnals Bathon and freshman Marcella Tom Kelly yanked Bartlett after which were held last weekend Lansford. As rookies to the national championship competi­tion the squad was happy with
ND track team awaits their performance. 
The four foilists, who tallied a 
14-3 season record en route to 
the NIWF A finals, qualifted for 
the meet by finishing in a first 
place tie wtth Ohio State in the 
tough upcoming scjhedule 
by Mark Perry 12 schools entered, and Piane oivision qualifying tournamentSports Editor was confident that it should be held on March 10. 
an excellent meet. Top schools A trip to the Arkansas State include the host school, Arkan­Junior Liz.Bathon also gained Invitational this Saturday is just sas State (perennial champions extended recognition by qual­the beginning of a tough sche­in the Southland Conference), ifying for the individual posttion 
D championship, although shedule of meets for the Notre Florida, Kansas, and a Mem-· did nqt manage to place in theDame track team for the rest of phis State team loaded with ·finals.
April. some top runners from Eng­Accompanying the squad toThe Irish have been impres~ land. 
the meet was their coach, Mikesive in the first two meets of the The Irish have tough meets Sullivan. ·Sullivan, himself aoutdoor season, and Irish Head coming up for the next tWo nation:,IIIy ranked Irish fencer,Coach Joe Piane hopes that the weekends also. Next Saturday was commended on his leader­trend will continue at Arkansas the two-mile relay team will be ship · and coaching by IrishState. defending their title in the captain Karen Lacity.
"We are taking about 25 Kansas Relays, and a four mile Next year's outlook for the
athletes down to this meet,'' relay team will also be entered. team is outstanding, as it willPiane said. "We would like to The rest of the Irish squad will be returning three of this year's better our point total of last be traveling to the Illini Classic · squad members. The team will y"ar, and are looking for im­at the University of Illinois. On feel the loss of its captain Karen P• oved performance$ from our April27 and 28 Notre Dame will Lacity's ability, but the three 400 meter and 1600 meter relay be entered in some events at returning foilists should pro­teams. We could score in at the Drake Relays, and also will vide a strong nucleus for least nine or ten events.'' send some competitors to the another run at the NIWF A 
The one day affair has about Ball State Relays. finals. 

standing play. 

''The team looked very good, particulary against Indiana Central," Black said, "cer­tainly one of the premier teams in Indiana, if not in the Mid­West. They have an advanced athletic program for women. I thought we would be good, and I am now convinced that on any given day we can beat any team we play. It is a young team ­half the squad are freshmen ­and it will get better." 
Offensively Diane Klucka out-did everyone, collecting four hits, five runs scored and twelve stolen bases. Both Evansville and Indiana Central had difficulty contalnin~ Klucka on the basepaths desptte their strong catchmg staffs. Klucka tallied a record eight stolen bases in the game against Indiana Central. 
Susan Nicholas stole four bases of her own and Sue Schneider added two to push the Belle's total to 20 for the day. Freshman Maribeth Hosinski added to the produc­tion of Saint Mary's runs by pounding three hits, including a double, three runs-batted-m, along with her exceptional defensive play at first base. 
Saint Mary's defensive play remained consistent in the double bill and the squad came up with what Coach Black termed "exceptional plays" on numerous occasions. i'he only bleak event of the day occurred when Senior Liz Aerts, after belting Qut a clutch rwo-out single, knocking in the Belles' first two runs, was rushed to St. Francis Hospital in Indiana­polis. Ex-rays of Aerts had disclosed that the little finger on her left hand had been broken. Aerts, the Belles' clean-up hitter, will be gone from active diamond duty for three weeks. Sandy Gay was able to fill-in for Aerts as she collected three runs-batted-in against Indiana Central. 
The battery of Freshmen 
M.J. Murray and Amy Karke­wicz proved too much for both Evansville and Indiana Central. Murray came away with both wins, giving up only four earned runs on the day while striking out 13 batters. Murray was very strong against the powerful Indiana Central team, doling out only three hits and one earned run with seven strike-outs. 
Coach Black, impressed with Karkewicz's behind the plate action, praised his catcher's play. "Karkewicz caught two exceptional games and assures the Belles affront-line catching for the year-the Chicago Cubs should be so lucky.'' . 
Saint Mary's will defend its 2-0 record by facing Bethel College away on Tuesday, game time is scheduled for 3:00 
p.m. After Easter break the Belles will be challenged at Grace College on April 18. 
Women tracksters take four 
The Notre Dame Women's Jane Ahern, as she ran to Track Club captured four first victory in the 880-yard run. places, three in field events, at a tri-meet with Goshen College and St. Joseph's College on Correction 
Schedules for this year'sSaturday at St. Joseph's. 
Bookstore Basketball tourna­
Mary Hums placed first in ment will be available to team 
two individual events, winning captains on April 16 from 6 pm 
the long jump with a leap of 13 to midnight m 140 Pangborn 
feet, eight inches, and hurling Hall, not 104 Pangborn as 
the javelin 117 feet, 11 inches, 3nnounced in yesterday's 
her personal best, for another Observer. Teams are reminded 
first place. Cheryl Kearns took that if they do not pick up their 
first m the shot with a throw of schedule at this time they will 
34 feet. The only first place in a forfe-it their place in the tourna­
running event was turned "in by ment. 





