, , , Boxing -pages 6, 7 

VOL. XIII, NO. 99 · an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 1979 
Gail Darragh explains SMC policy 
by Margie Brassil 
Gail Darragh, Saint Mary's Student Government president, explained the reasons for the proposal on election endorse­menr policy last night at the Student Assembly meeting. 
Groups wanting to place en­dorsements in the upcoming Student Government elections approached the election com­mittee, consisting of Noreen Bracken, Cary Trousdale and Darragh. Saint Mary's has never had any election policy regarding endorsements. 
''This was never an issue before and never had to be,'' Darragh explained, adding, ''Now that is was raised I felt immediate action had to be taken on it.'' 
The Board of Governance ad­dressed the issue at its meeting, last Monday night and ex­pressed the belief that endorse­ments are not necessary. Most board members believed that 
[continued on page 4] 


As ,_.. Jz'cz'al C001i'Jt'nator 
j U.Uj Uj 
0 J £I

.1.1are to renlace Rizzo 
by Dan Letcher Senzor StaffReporter 

On April I, junior Jim O'Hare will assume the position of Judicial Coordinator, replacing Jayne Rizzo who served as Notre Dame's first such coor­dinator. 
O'Hare hopes to continue the Judicial Council's and Rizzo's policies of educating and infor­ming the students about the judicial process on campus. He also wants to "keep the council representative of the judicial needs on campus." 
' 'There are definite things I would like the council to look into," 0' Hare stated. He cited the "g!ay areas" surrounding rectors' discretionary powers in deciding the gravity of hall offem;es as an example. 
The new coordinator also noted that between the last class day and final exams there is a period during which the Judictal Council is out of office.. ''Something should be done about this situation," he com­mented. 
"I don't want the Judicial Coordinator and Council to become really political," O'Hare said, adding, "Jayne worked at getting a little auto­nomy, and · I'd like to keep movmg in this direction.'' 
Referring to Rizzo, O'Hare noted, "She wanted to get the whole Judicial Council estab­lished and coordinate the hall J -Boards." When she entered office, some halls did not even have ] -Boards, but now, be-
Sniegowski converses with representatives 
by Tim Sullivan StaffReporter 
Concerned about the effects of a planned curriculum change and the general future of the Speech and Drama Department at Notre Dame-Saint Mary's, representatives of speech communication concentrates spoke yesterday with Donald C. Sniegowski, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, about the status of the selection process for the Welch chair, an endowed professorship in the area of speech communications. 
Sniegowski stated that a search committee has compiled a short list of peol'le "we felt were capable oftakmg a holistic approach to various aspects of the department.'' He said that the candidates needed "to be able to incorporate the three disciplines of the department (speech communication, theatre and film).'' 
The search committee, which reviews candidates' applica­tions, consists of Mttchell Lifton, department chairman; Elizabeth Noel, professor of 
English, and Sniegowski.
The student representatives were concerned that students in 

~t•e dt~~ff~e~~;;~~~~n~0tp~r~
raining to selection of the chair. However, Sniegowski stated that each candidate must give a public performance when he comes for an interview, and that students could review the candidate at that time. 
Sniegowski declined to name dates. 

In response to a rumor that the chair would not be in residence at Notre Dame, Sniegowski retorted, "That boggles my mind--it is ridicu­lous and ludicrous. The new chair will teach and do broadly defined research." 
Sniegowski described the long-range goals of the depart­ment as an attempt to bring to_gether and unify the elements affiliated with the communica­tion arts. However, in regards to the curriculum change, the student representatives stated that the department's approach to teaching speech communica­tions ap.l?ears to be abandoning a tradiuonal, humanistic ap­
proach  in  favor  of  a  more  
mtellecrualized,  cerebral,  
semiotic method.  

Sniegowski responded that the selection of curriculum is strictly a faculty matter. Al­though the present students had the right to be taught under the existing curriculum, future classes would }vive to accept the new curriculum, he added. 
Sniegowski admitted, how­ever, that the committee was looking for chair candidates 
who had "developed a semiotic approach and a sense of semi· 


~o~~~~~;·phJ~~~~i~~rrh:~ryt~f
signs and symbols in language and communication.) The stu­dent representatives question­ed the ability of the defartment to teach the traditiona curricu­lum if faculty members were trained only in the semiotic approach to communication. 

The sun's daily journey past the church steeple marks the endofclasses andthe beginning ofND 's socialltfe. [photo by john MacorJ 
r 
cause of Rizzo's urging, every hall has one. 
"The main focus of this year was to organize an effective J -Board in every hall," Rizzo stated, adding that her next goal had been to improve education of students concer­
ci~ili~ri~mwdilieH~­
ability of the judicial process is
a.~}h~en;o~k~~~~ a;~:sT~~~rd 
commissioners in September 
~~dvl:d t~ ~an~eza,~u~~~h~u~
their own workshops to inform students of the judicial mechan­ism,'' Rizzo explained. 
1 'Because of these efforts stu­dents now know that there is a ] -Board and there is a ] udicial Council," she stressed. 
Rizzo expresed disappoint­ment that she could not develop more of a personal contact with hall rectors. "Howe'(er, I've found that the important thing is if the hall staff and the hall's ] -Board get along together,'' she pointed out. 
Regarding-her interaction with the. administration, Rizzo noted "We have had our dis­agreements and ups and downs, but on the whole, it has been a good working relation­ship." 
I 'I am not liberal by any other standard except this student body," Rizzo emphasized. This personal stance made Rizzo seem outspoken at times, giv­ing increased visibility to ·her position as Judicial Coordinator and the Judicial Council itself. She believes that such a move­ment assisted in the develop­ment of the Council. 
Commenting about her r,ear in office, Rizzo mused, ' Some­times you get tired of hearing about other people's problems but I'm sure that I've person­ally gained a lot from this 
[continued on page 8] 

=======================================
B d ifc fi .
Oafj 0 ommissioners at1Sto approve nomination oifS[JDirector 
or divulge the number of candi-[continued on page BJ 
by Ton1Pace Editor-zn-Chief 
The Board of Commissioners failed to approve the nomination of Tim Coughlin for the position of Student Union Director last night by a 4-2 vote. Coughlin had received the nomination from the SU Steering Committee on Tuesday night. 
Student Body President Andy McKenna, speaking on behalf of the majority who failed to approve Couf;hlin's nomination, stated, "We had reservauons with this nomination, espe­cially after they (the Steering Committee) had such difficulty arriving at a nomination.'' SU Director Bill Roche dissented with the Board's decision, staring, "I felt confident with our (the Steering Committee's) first nomination. Tim has all the qualifications to be a good Director. But we are constitutionally bound to make a second nomination, so we will do so." 
The student government constitution stipulates that in a case where the Board of Commissioners fails to approve a nomination, the Steering Committee must make a second nomination. The Board must then choose between the two nominees. 
The Steerin~ Committee violated the letter of the Constitution by not presenting a nomination to the Board of Commissioners by March 1. The 
Steering Committee was unable to agree on a nomination from the candidates who initially appliedfor the Director position. After reopening the application process, the Steering Committee 
agreed on the nomination of Coughlin. 
Social Commissioner John Bonacci, a member 
of the five-man Steering Committee, was 
incensed by the Board's decision. "I think 
they're just playing politics," he said, "but I'11 
follow through with the constitution and give 
them a second candidate.'' 
The members of the Board present at the meeting were McKenna, Roche, Judicial Coor­dinator Jayne Rizzo, HPC ·Chairman Chuck De!Gancfe, Treasurer Beau Mason and Holy Cross Hall President Dan Darfler. SBVP Mike Roohan, the seventh member of the board, was not present at the meeting. No member of the Board would state any specific reasons for the rejection. McKenna did say, however, "The Board is just interested in who the Steering Committe's second nomination will be. '' 
The Steering Committee will meet this evening 
to make its second nomination. The Board of 
Commissioners will convene immediately after­
wards to choose between the first and second 
nomination. 

The Board had previously approved the 
nominations of Greg Sebasky as Student 
Government Treasurer and Rick Pinkowski is the 
Social Commission Controller. 


News in brief 
Cut -'!'atefares may suffer from risingfuel, labor costs 
NEW YORK (AP)--Because of the rising costs of fuel and labor, the airlines are having second thoughts about those cut-rate fares that caused an air travel boom last year, according to industry analysts. The airlines are not withdrawing the discount fares. They just won't be quite so cheap, nor quite so plentiful. The price of an airline ticket probably will increase by five to ten percent by summer, the ianalysts say. The price ·of jet fuel, which accounts for 20 percent of an airline's expenses, has been rising at a six percent annual rate so fat this year. Analysts expect the mcrcase to jump to twelve percent by the end of the year as a result of the cutback in Iranian oil. At the same time, labor costs are expected to rise about ten percent. Most of the major airlines already have asked the Civil Aeronautics Board for across-the-board increases in fares. 
Arafat calls PLO meeting to discuss demonstrations 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP)--Yasser Arafat's Palestine Libera­tion Organization called yesterday on Palestinians under Israeli rule to confront Pt:Csident Carter with a general strike and demonstrations. The PLO's 15-man executive commit­tee, at an urgent meeting convened by Arafat to discuss Carter's visit to Egypt and Israel, also called for a summit conference of Arab heads of state to deal with the result of Carter's visit. 
Scientists discover ring spinningaroundjupiter 
PASADENA, Calif. (AP)-·A faintly visible ring of particles resembling a thin, white string was discovered spinning around Jupiter -like a smaller version of the famous rings around Saturn -as Voyager 1 sailed by the giant planet, scientists said yesterday at a news conference at the Jet Pro{>ulsion Laboratory. The unexpected finding makes ] uptter the third of the solar system's nine planets to have a ring. Saturn's broad and brilhant rings were discovered 350 years ago, while dim rings about Uranus were found by astronomers two years ago. The rings around Jupiter may be composed of ice and rocky debris trapped in an orbit around the planet. 
Weather 

Becoming partly sunny and cool today with highs near 40. Increasing cloudiness and cool at night with lows again in the mid to upeer 20s. Cloudy tomorrow with a chance of light rain, posstbly mixed with snow. Highs around 40. 
s 

12:15 p.m.--MASS with griff, LA FORTUNE BAllROOM 
4 p.m.--SEMINAR, "aromatic hydroxylation," by prof. cheves walling, u of utah, RAD. LAB. 
4:30 J>.m.--COLLOQUIAM, "the implications of the quinlan case for terminally ill elderly," by paul w. armstrong, 117 HAGGAR HALL 
6 p.m.--AUDITIONS for "the land of the dragon," WASHINGTON HALL 
7 p.m.--MASS, at STANFORD HALL 
7 p.m.--EVENING PRAYER, at THE LADY CHAPEL 
7 p.m.--PRESENTATION, "construction management and the construction industry," by ralph korte, ENG. BLD. ROOM 3030 
7, 9, 11 p.m.--FILM, "the spy who loved me," KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS HALL, admisston $1 
8 p.m.--PIANO RECITAL, by donna harding, LITTLE TIIEA1RE, SMC 
8 p.m.--SOPH. UT. FESTIVAL, by larry me murty, author and screenplay writer, MEM. UB. AUD. 
8 p.m.--BENGAL BOUTS, semifinals, ACC 
8 p.m.--ND-SMC THEA1RE, "spring's awakening," O'LAUGHLIN AUD 
9 p.m.--NAZZ, open stage, EVERYONE WELCOME 
9 p.m.--MEETING, the ohio farmworkers support commit­tee, LA FORTUNE BAllROOM 

Thursday, March 8, 1979 -page 2 
The final sprint to peace 

Carter anticipates Mideast pact 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Carter flew to Cairo last night for what E~tian offi­cials are calling ' the final sprint to peace. " 
Barely concealing their opti­mism, U.S. officials said that while too many details remain for Carter to completely wrap up a trea!J, they are not ruling out initialing one on the trip. 
The presiaent, will ride m a motorcade into the capital to open a three-day vistt that Egyptians hope will boost Pres­ident Anwar Sadat's image. Tens of thousands of spectators are expected to line the route. 
Also mixed in with the neso­tiating are a Carter train nde tomorrow to Alexandria and a S,Peech Saturday to the Egyp­tian Parliament in Cairo. He also will inspect the pyramids. 
The 100-mile tram ride to Alexandria, the historic city on the Mediterranean, will attract considerable local attention. 
Carter's high visibility is desi~ned to rub off on Sadat, who 1s distrusted in much of the Arab world for pursuing peace with Israel. 
Carter's Mideast mission won't be easy to overlook at home, either. 
Carter will shuttle to ] em­salem on Saturday evening, planning to remain at least until Monday. Beyond that, his itinerary has not been disclosed and may not even be set. He could be coming home at that point, if an agreement is in hand, or he might participate in an initialing ceremony. If one or two key issues are unre­solved, he might conduct a bit of shuttle diplomacy between Cairo and ] erusalem. 

~'!:?~.~b!~~~~rt" 
Brosh Asst. Night Editor: Mar­garet Kruse, john Smith Copy Readers: Tim joyce, Mare Ulicny_ Layout Staff: Suzy Marshall Editorial Layout: Tina Ter­
laak 
Features Layout: Cindy McKie/ Sports Layout: Paul Barry Mullaney Typists: LisaDt'Valerio, Tom Pt'pp, Beth W£1/ard, Katie Brehl EMT: little Frisky Day Editor: Maribeth Moran Ad Layout: Matt DeSalvo Photographer: Bob Gill 
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 Is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation penods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester] from The Observer. P.O. box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

A White House official who asked not to be identified cautioned late Tuesday that it will be impossible to conclude all formal acnon on a treaty during Carter's trip. 
Israeli Prime Minister Men­achem Begin, who was leaving New York yesterday evening, was asked to compare h1s feelings now with those after last fall's Camp David summit meetins. He noted "there was euphona (last fall), not only in this country, but in Jerusalem and Cairo and throughout the world. Now we must be very careful. I am hopeful." 
Egyptian officials, led by Prime Minister Mustafa Khalil, were equally positive about the treaty outlook. 
In Cairo, Zbigniew Brzezin­ski, the U.S. national security adviser, outlined Carter's latest proposals to Sadat. Sadat's reaction was not immediately known, but Egyptian officials said Carter's trtp may mean "the final sprint" to a peace treaty. 
Khalil said after the briefrng that chances for a treaty are "rather good in my opinion." He said the Egyptian cabinet would study the U.S. proposals today and may seek some changes, although he added that the proposals "did not deviate much" from the agree­ments reached at the Camf David summit meeting last fal . 
College bowl regionalgames to begin tonight 
by Ellen Buddy Saint Mary's Editor 

The Regional IX College Bowl Finals will take place this evening at Saint Mary's, ac­cording to Mary Laverty, Col­lege Bowl Coordinator. The ftrst session of games will begin at 7:00p.m. in Carroll Auditor­ium, Madeleva Hall. 
Nine teams from Illinois and 

Indiana are scheduled to com­
pete. The schools from Indiana 
are Indiana State University, 
Franklin College, Purdue Uni­
versity, Saint Mary's and Notre 
Dame. Representatives from 
Illinois are Illinois State Univer­
sity, University of Illinois, 
Southern Illinois University 
(Edwardsville) and Southern 
Illinois University (Carbon­
dale). . 
The teams will meet at 4:30 

p.m. to participate in the draw­mg for the positions so the competition can be scheduled. An openins dinner will follow at 
5:30 p.m. m the lower level of the dming hall. 
Tonight's competition will consist of six _games, each lasting thirty mmutes. The winner of each game is deter­mined on a point system based 
upon the number of correct answers. The questions that 
will  be  used  in  competition  
were  formulated  by  College  
Bowl, Inc.  

Saint Mary's four starting positions are occupied by Cap­tain Cathy Cowhey, Lisa Fulks, Louise Enyedy, Patty Field and alternate Cathy Loftus. 
The second session of ~ames will begin Friday morrung at 
9:00 a.m. in the Little Theater, Moreau Hall. A lunch break is scheduled for noon, followed by the fmal session of games beginnin~ at 1:30 p.m. The closing dmner and presentation of awards will be at 5:00p.m. 
Laverty would like to express the fact that the games are open to the public free of charge. 
Obudtaking applications 

Anyone interested in ap­plying for the position of Ombudsman director should contact Joe Kaczmarek at 3150 cby Monaay, March 12. No prior experience is necessary. 
: 'HELLO DOLLY' : ! March 9&1 0 ·Friday &Saturday : 
! 7 and 9.:30pm d . • :
• a masston • 
:carroll Hall, $1.00 : : SMC : 
: spo.,sored by • 
• CMr Social Commission : 
······¥··~····················· 

Ju n ·orsl Ill want to save 
• •• $10.00 
last chance to make appointments for your senior pictures call3557 or come to room 2c LaFortune Make-ups in the fall $10.00 
The Observer 


InViet dispute 


China moving backfrom border 
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP)­Vietnam accused Chinese troops of "plundering, burnin~ people's homes and shelling' as they withdrew from Vietnam yesterday, but the Chinese­Vietnamese war appeared to be drawing to a c1ose. 
It was the first confirmation by the Vietnamese that the Chinese, who announced Monday that they were pulling out of Vietnam, had begun moving back. 
The Chinese withdrawal might take two weeks or more because "pulling out is more difficult militarily than advanc­ing,'' according to Chinese sources in Peking as quoted by the Japanese news service Kyodo. 
Kyodo also said China claimed to have killed or wounded 10,000 Vietnamese and to have taken 1,000 pris­oners. 
The Vietnamese news agency claimed Vietnam had ''put out of action 45,000 enemy soldiers, knocked out 273 tanks and armored personnel carriers and hit hundreds of artillery piece and mortars." The clatm was quoted in a dispatch from Hanoi by the Soviet news agency Tass. 
The Vietnamese confirmation of the Chinese pullback, coupled with Vietnam's promise to refrain from attack­mg withdrawing troops, made it appear the 17-day-old war was nearing an end. Both countries have claimed victory. 
However, Western observers were wary. In Washington, 
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Richard Holbrooke said "certain Chinese units" have returned to China. But he said, "I am not prepared to call it a withdrawal. It may be only redeployment.'' 
Western intelligence sources in Bangkok also said they have not seen any evidence yet of a major Chinese withdrawal. 
It was unclear whether Vietnam's charge that the Chinese were using a scorched earth policy while withdrawing might prolong the fighting. Vietnam's Communist Party newspaper Nhan Dan said, ''If Chinese armed forces, while pulling out, continue acts of war, those troops will be severely punished." 
The newspaper, according to Tass, said there were new reports of fighting and of the Chinese methodically destroy­ing towns and rice plantations as they withdrew. But the examples cited in a Tass dis­patch were several days old. 

Kyodo said its Chinese sources said Vietnam was ex­pected to carry out small-scale attacks on withdrawing Chinese troops, but was not capable of launching a major attack. 
The Nhan Dan report was in an editorial headlined ''A Splendid Victory of Our Army and the People." It said the Chinese "have been forced to retreat." It also said, "In the face of a vigorous retaliatory blow by our army and our people, and strong condem­nation by the whole world, the ruling circles of Peking had to declare the withdrawal of all of their agressive troops from the terri tory of our country. " 
China, using equally strong language, had clatmed victory on Tuesday, sayinE it had punished Vietnam for numer­ous border provocations. 
SMCcandidates tneet to debate issues 
by Pam Degnan 
Candidates running for Saint Mary's student body president, vice-president of academic af­fairs and vice-president of stu­dent affairs answered questions from a group of about 50 students 10 a forum held in LeMans Hall last night. 
Susan Glockner, a SBP candi­date, emphasized the need to strengthen student govern­ment. ''Through the develop­

• ment of a student union and the 
s[!a1111lzcations reorganizatio~ of the Hall Presi-, 
'Y.f' dents Counctl (HPC), student 
available today 
Applications for Student Union commissioner positions will be available today in the Student Union Offices on the second floor of LaFortune. 
Applications must be re­turned Monday, and interviews will be held Tuesday through Thursday. 
Positions are open in the cultural arts, soctal, academic, services, movies, publicity and concerts commissions as well as executive ~taff, ticket office, and calendar office. 
Government will emerge as a powerful unit on campus," Glockner stated. 
The Glockner-Wixted­McGrath platform consists of four major points: the weeky publicauon of a campus news­paper, the development of a student union, the strengthen­ing of the section representa­tive position and the mduction of a resident advisor represen­tative to the Board of Gover­nance which informs the stu­dent body of Student Govern­ment policies. 
Opposing SBP candidate, Pia Trigtani, bases her campaign on airectives that deal with all facets of student life. "College reflects you as a person. We must place our pride in Saint Mary's," Trigiani stated. 

The Trigiani-Dornbach­Sweeney ticket stresses the need for representation at de­partmental meetings by the vice-president of academic af fairs to keep students aware of administrative policies, ar;t ex­panded intramural program, the expansion of Volunteers Services, including an Adopt-A­Nun program, and the develop­ment of a detailed course evaluation booklet specifically geared to freshman and sopho­mores. 
The issue of the necessity of the HPC stirred the candidates into debate. 
When questioned as to the HPC' s function, Glockner re­plied, "It is a means of coor­ainating activities and, as such, will be responsible for specific events.'' 
Trigiani refuted the statement saying, ''There is ·no need for the HPC. It's just another committee that's not working-­another bureaucratic mess." 
The highlight of the forum occurred when Glockner and 
[continued on page 8) 

Thursday, March 8, 1979 -page 3 
Poet Hall entertairis at Literary Festival 
by Mark Rust Senior StaffReporter 

Poet Donald Hall, with ani­
mated gestures and frequent 
asides, read 14 selections of his 
poetry before a crowd of a~­
proximately 450 at last night s 
Sophomore Literary Festival in 
Washington Hall. 
A graduate of Harvard and 
Oxford, Hall lives on a New 
Hampshire farm and serves as 
an editorial consultant with 
Harpers magazine. 
Hall's poetry frequently re­flects a fascination with ani­mals, along with an apprecia­tion · of things pastoral and historical. Of his 14 selections, five dealt with animal imagery. "Black-Faced Sheep," one of his lon~er selections, is a "rip-off, ' according to Hall, who said he got the idea from the 49th Psalm, which says the rich are going to die and be placed underground. ''I sup­pose the rest of us will, too," Hall reflected. 
''Horse'' followed with the progression of a working mare from its toil in the fields to its death and burial. This J?iece was followed by ''Wolf Kmfe,'' a chilling account of explorere in the 19th century matching wits with the forces of nature in the Alaskan wilderness. He called it ''the nastiest poem I have ever written." 
"To a Waterfowl" had little to do with waterfowl, as Hall pointed out before reciting. The piece dealt with Hall's expenence as a poet, reading to an audience of women ..... "women with hats like the pink rear-ends of ducks applauded/ These are the women whose husbands ask on airplanes 'what are you in'/' 'Poetry' I say/'Oh yea, my likes that sort of thing. ' ' ' 
Hall then read three humorous poems dealing with a~ents, retirement and cheese. ' Ohhh Cheese" is a melodramatic piece, an epic tribute of sorts to cheese personified. 
Hall utilized the heroic coup­let--a form using two self-con­tained, rhyming lines--in his next two l'ieces, "Epitaph on an Agent, ' and "To an Early Retirement." 
Hall's longer, more serious pieces were typical of his attention to history and nature. "The Oxcart Man" is a story from the early 19th century that represents the "wonderful, cyc­lical nature of life,'' accordmg to the poet. He added that some of his readers have found the piece "depressing, a re­minder of Sisyphus.'' 
"Kicking the Leaves," the title poem from one of his books, might be described as Hall's farewell to Ann Arbor. It is composed of seven indepen­dent thoughts on New England in the fall and fond recollections of Ann Arbor. 
Hall delivered two expressive verbal portraits--"Mt. Kier­sardt" and "Reclining Fi­gure. " Hall also read "Man in the Dead Machine," a similarly expressive piece with an eerie quality. It describes an ima~e envisioned by Hall while dnv­ing along the New York Thru­way. 
He described the moment of conception for this piece as a "flash" in his head, requiring him to stop on the heavily traveled highway to write it down, an action generally li­mited by law to vehicular emergencies. "For a poet, an image like this is an emer­gency," he said. 
Tonight's guest at the Festival will be Larry McMurtry, a novelist and essayist who wrote the screenplay for ''The Last Picture Show." His presenta­tion will begin in the Library Auditorium at 8 p.m. 
Today's workshop and presen­tation times for John Frederick Nimms have been reversed, Larry Siems, Festival chairman,. announced yesterday. The workshop scheduled for 1: 15 
p.m. has been changed to 2:45 p.m_., and the reading will begm at 1:15 p.m. 
NAVY OFFICER. YOU GET RESPONSIBILITY THE MOMENT YOU GET THE STRIPES. 
A lot of companies will offer you an important sounding 
title. 

But how many offer you a really important job? 
In the Navy, you get one as soon as you t~am your com· 
mission. A job with responsibility. A job that requires skill 
and leadership. A job that's more than just a job, because 
it's also an advent\D'e. 

If that's the kind of job you're looking for, speak to your 
local recruiter. Contact: 

Ifthat's the kind ofjobyou'relookingfor, speak to the Navy Officer Programs Officer who will be on campus, in the Placement Office, on the 8th & 9th of March, Or give us a call anytime at (312) 657-2234, 

The Observer 

Thursday, March 8, 1 1979 -page 4 
Trials, executions and arrests 


Internal conflicts disrupt Iran 

TEHRAN, Iran (AP)-Iran's pro­visional government appeared headed for a crisis yesterday after the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the architect of the revolution, called the nation's ministers ''weak'' and derided them for believing ''everything should be copied from the West." . . . 
The Khomemt-appomted government of Prime Minister Nehdi Bazargan, primarily Western-educated liberals, has expressed anger over the wave of secret trials, executions and arrests carried out by Khomeini's followers. A revol­utionary firing squad executed six men Tuesday night after they were found guilty of kidnapping boys and placing them at the service of homo­sexuals. 
No disturbances were re­ported in the oil fields, how-

Economist advocates new fiscal programs to curb unemployment 
worth spoke on the strengths and weaknesses of the current employment tools used to stabi­lize the economy. "The two major alternatives curbing unemployment are fed­eral tax cuts and the Public Service Employment Pro­gram," Killin~sworth ex­plained, comparmg the two alternatives, with an emphasis on the latter. 
''The economist who would support the federal tax cut proposes that it would supply the greatest benefit to the most disadvantaged,'' Killingsworth continued. ''The Kennedy administration's slo~an 'arising tide lifts all boats was sup­posed to stress how a federal tax cut could adequately curb the rising unemployment rate. Yet a sunken boat seems. to remain at the bottom even as the changes shows the compari­son of how the unemployment rate still remains at an increas­ing low level, no matter what federal tax cuts have been proposed,'' Killingsworth re­lated. "In actuality," he proposed, ''the lowest percen­tage of benefits goes to the most disadvantaged when a federal tax cut system is used.'' An investigation by the Con­gressional Budget Office, in which Killingsworth partici­pated, found that the federal tax cut system is the most costly to all individuals. "A superior alternative to this tax cut pro­gram would be the Public Service Employment Program 
This program, whtch employs able bodied workers in govern­ment jobs, provides the least costly form of employment for the most people. This public service employment l?rogram creates three to five umes as many jobs as the tax cut system and enhances services in the private as well as public sec­tor," Killingsworth noted. 
To show the increase in sup-­port for the Public Service Employment Program, Kil­lingsworth described other al­ternatives which attempt to curb the unemployment in­crease. One of these poljcies is 5Ubstitition, which is state and federal interference in hiring individuals which would have been hired anyway. This shifting of federal jobs would increase employment to an extent but could never advance beyond this stabilization. 
. [continuer/ on page 10) 

ever. Officials of the National Iranian Oil. Co. announced that within a 24-hour period crude oil production rose by 300,000 barrels to two million barrels as the country's chief refming complex in A~adan neared maxtmum capacity. 
Khomeini's criticisms came as rumors persisted that Bazargan is considering resign­ing in frustration over his lack of power. His aides denied reports that he resigned. 
Bazargan threatened to quit a week ago after he bitterly attacked the "revolutionary committees,''· the Khomeini followers who have been run­ning a parallel government and undermining the authority of the provisional government. 
At one point, Bazargan said that he had heard through the media that the revolutionary committee in Tehran had order­ed the executions of several generals of the toppled govern­ment of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. 
Khomeini, in a speech yes­terday, attacked provisional government suggestions that Iranians should have the oppor­tunity to set up a Western-style democracy instead of an Islamic republic. 
The Moslem holy man lashed out at some government minis­ters ''who have weak charac­ters' ' for believing ' 'everything should be copied from the West,'' in the speech to theo­logical students and religious leaders in Qum, his residence 75 miles southwest of Tehran. 
"You are weak, sir. You are weak, and as long as you are weak, you are under the influ-
St. Mary's Student Government and Alumnae Association present the I979 
Spring Fashion Show 
Sunday, March II-2:30 SMC Vining Hall 
Fashions provided by Paul Harri!ii Boutiques 
of the Pierre Mor·an Mall 
Admi!ii!iiion Free Smc students will model 
the fashions 



Fox's~ 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS JEWELERS SINCE 1917 Town & Country and Concord Mall, also University Park Mall 1 0-9 Blackmond 's, daily, 9:30-5 Special15% Discount On 

I~---------------~\ 
I BUlla Sh€0 I 
I p:w I
I 5:t5massanbsuppm ~~~ ! th•s ~~•oay CCfii)P_US ·;
1 

\ ano €ve~y (:Raoay m1n1Stry 1 
~--~ 
·····:-:··· 
~ 
.. 

... ::·.·~···~ ·-..· 
[continuer/ from page 1] the College is too small to warrant official endorsement of candidates and that endorse­ments could lead to disunity among next year's Student Government members. According to election policy, it was not the board's position to vote on the issue. The election committee drew up the propo­sal and submitted it last mght to the Student Assembly. The proposal, as presented by Darragh last night, states: ''There will be no group endorsement; 'group' signify­ing an entire group or entire dorm or any other representa­tive group. This does not mean that the officers of these groups may not endorse, so long as it is explicitly stated that only the officers are doing so." Mter reading the proposal the issue was 'Opened to discussion by the assembly. Adri Tri~iani, sophopmore class prestdent and member of the Board of Governance, voiced her views first, although she is not an assembly member. Trigiani supported the right of endorsement as a necessary function of group representa­tives in informing the students of their views on the qualifica­tions of the candidates. Several assembly members objected rhat · is a group ex­pressed its endorsement through a survey, it should be able to use that as an official endorsement._ Darragh explained that this objection was· not contrary to the endorsement policoy. The election board voiCed the con­cern that officers might make their views sound like the views of their entire group, rather 
ence -of the strong ones," said the Ayatollah, apparently refer­ring to Bazargan. 

Our problem is that we are too much influenced by the West. For long years we have been under the influence of America. It will take time to change, but you have to make an effort. 
"You say we are standing on our own feet now, but you are still talking of a democratic republic, which means a Western republic," he said. "We are independent, our laws are from Islam." 
The ayatollah criticized government ministers for con­tinuing to use silver cutlery, plates and lavish furnishings used under the shah while "the nation lives in slums and caves.'' 
Khomeini also insisted in his speech that women working in the ministries should wear "Islamic hejam," or non-form­revealing clothes. 
The shah's ambitious plan for Iran's modernization and devel­opment, accompanied by the adoption of Western dress and traditions, was opposed by Iran's conservative Shiite Moslem leadership. They joined with the shah's political opposition t<J drive him from the country in January after a year of econom1c strikes and civil unrest. 
Thousands are believed to be held under arrest and 40 per­sons are believed to have been executed by revolutionary firing squads--13 on morals charges and 27 officials of the shah's regime. 
by Keith Melaragno 
The main objective of today' s leading economist is to pick a superior fiscal program to_ curb the increasing rise in unem­ployment. This objective was the topic of a lecture given by Charles Killingsworth yester­day in Hayes-Healy auditorium. This lecture was the second in a two-part series of lecture-dis­cussions concerning the rise and decline ofunemployment in the United States. 
Killingsworth, professor of economics at Mtchigan State Universi'ty, spent four days on the Notre Dame campus dtscus­sing the issue of unemploy­ment. This second public talk dealt with the employment policy in the next decade. 
A leading spokesman for the structuralist point of view in economic thmking, Killings­
, , .Policy 

than their own personal views. Tlie policy has been specifically worded to avoid this misrepre­sentation. 
The reason for endorsement is to give officers, who have a working knowledge of Student Government, achanceto express their views on the qualifications of each ticket. 
After discussion, assembly members voted on the policy and passed the proposal with nine m favor, two opposed, and one abstention. 
This endorsement policy goes into effect for the present campaign. Only four days remain for any endorsements to be made since the policy was raised during the middle of the campaign. 
Class elections are today 
Voting for junior and sopho­more class officers will take place today from 11:30 a.m. to 1 
p.m. and 'j to 6:30 p.m. in the residence halls. Off-campus residents may cast their votes from 11 a.m. to 'j p.m. in the Huddle. 
After the first round of elec­tions on Tuesday, Mark Wood­ward, Ombudsman election co­ordinator, proposed that voting hours for off-campus students be reduced because of the small number of off-campus voters. However, only three of the four tickets involved in tomorrow's run-off election agreed to the reduction, so no change will be made in off-campus voting hours, Woodward stated . 
I 

Editorials 
Thursday,Marchs, 1979-page5 
========================================= 
P. 0. Box Q 
In support 
of Father Hesburgh 
Dear Editor: 
The obvious unfairness of Mr. William Melvin's attack on Father Hesburgh's governance of the University (Observer, March 1) will be recognized by any objective person. 
It is equally obvious that Father Hesburgh needs no defense from me or anyone else in our University community. His concern for all the Notre Dame family, his availability, his presence and particii?ation in the ongoing life of the University are envied and par­tially emulated by most univer­sity presidents. 
Allow me, nonetheless, a single comment. During the time Mr. Melvin was probably thinking about wriung his offensive letter, Father Hes­burgh was spending time with the parents of a student who 
was at death's door and cele­brated the funeral liturgy of Andy Sowder. He was the celebrant at the Junior Parent's Weekend liturgy and attended the Junior Parents' dinner where he received a standing ovation for his inspiring and profound address. 
That same weekend, to my knowledge, he attended four University meetin~s on cam­pus, gave the opemng remarks at the Black Cultural Series, and made preparations for the final stage of the Campaign for Notre Dame, which will assure that other persons, as Mr. 
Melvin, will be able to be a part o_f this University for genera­tions to come. 
Not bad for someone who is accused of "slighting the stu­dent body'' or who is not concentrating on "improving Notre Dame." 
. Msgr.]ohn}. Egan Asststant to the President 
From James to Ginsberg 
Dear Editor: 
While we revel in the excite· ment of the Sophomore Literary Festival which has brought so many major writers to the campus, it seems appropriate to reflect that Notre Dame has a Ion~ tradition of entertaining maJor writers. In fact, the Master himself once visited our campus. 
Yes, Henry James addressed the students of Notre Dame on March 14, 1905, a few months after the publication of The Golden Bowl. He lectured on Balzac, the same lecture he gave to every audience on his one and only American lecture tour. He did not talk down to the Notre Dame students·· nor to any of his audiences. 
The students wrote assiduously in their notebooks as he described Balzac as a "towering idol," the very father of novelists. "Quantity and intensity are at once his sign,'' said Henry James, acknowledging that he had 
11 of
learned more from Balzac 


On behalfofnational debt 
Twenty-nine states are planning a Constitu­tional Convention with one goal in mind: to eliminate the misunderstood and unduly feared budget deficit. The mere size of the national debt horrifies politicians and citizens alike; conservatives often ar~ue that the government must learn to live withm its budget. 
Government borrowing, however, is an impor­tant part of our financial system and should not be vtewed with alarm. Every dollar that the federal sovernment borrows represents one dollar of mcome received by a worker. The cost of massive unemployment, resulting from rashly eliminating the budget deficit, would greatly outweigh the benefits. In addition, the size of the debt, which currently amounts to $620 billion, must be viewed in relation to the nation's income, namely Gross National Product. Factually, the national debt has been declining as a percentage of GNP ever since 1945--a fact few people realize. 
Many argue that national debt places an unfair burden on future generations; this is not the case. Consider, for example, the tremen­dous debt acquired during World War II. The money borrowed by the government was used for the production of tanks, planes, and other war equtpment. This means that there was less money available for the production of private goods, such as cars, nylon and cigarettes. The war generation bore the burden of the debt by not l:ieing able to purchase these goods. 
Actually, future generations inherit the government bonds as well as the debt, not to mention the interest payments paid by the federal government. 
the engaging mystery of fic­tion" than from anyone else. 
The lecture was very long ·· you can read it in a ] ames collection, The Future of the Novel. But the students ap· parently liked it. At any rate the reporter who covered the event for the Scholastic con· eluded gallantly: Mr. James has done more than recreate an enthusiasm for Balzac, he has opened to the students of Notre Dame a new field of fictional literature, and brought before them the works of a man and a master-novelist, and that man is himself. 
What I can't find out is where on the campus this lecture took place. Does anyone know? 
Elizabeth Chn'stman 

Women's Alumnae Seminar for men and women alike 
Dear Editor: 
Three cheers for the Women's Alumnae Seminar this past Saturday. I found it to be one of the most enjoyable and informative events of the year. My only regret was that more people dtd not/et to enjoy the presentation an discusston by the eight very diverse and intriguing women graduates of Our Lady's University. Con­gratulations to Mary Meg McCarthy and all those who helped her come up with such a ftoe conference. I hope the event continues to flourish in 
Another misdirected fear that people have is of national bankruptcy. This is unfounded. Bankruptcy occurs when outstanding debts are so great that in comparison to present income, they simply cannot be paid. The federal government cannot find itself in this {'Osition for as long as its debt is held among its cttizens. Its power to tax insures a future stream of income; tn addition, the federal government has the eternal power to create money, and as a last resort, this can be done to pay its debts. Consequently, the issue of bankruptcy is not relevant to the case of federal government debt. 
Many concerns about the national debt are misdirected. The worries about its size, passing intolerable burdens to future generations, and about bankruptcy are largely unnecessary. Instead of wiping out the deficit, the major objective of a Constitutional Convention should focus on the management of the public debt, the way the debt money is spent, and the current economic impact of the deficit. The debt exists to stimulate the economy, to insure growth and to curb unem.Ployment. 
A conventton should carefully balance the desirable employment results of the debt against the inflationary impact of financing it. A convention should also make cenain that the money made available by deficit financing is used for needed and desirable programs rather than for wasteful spending, and should view deficit spending as a last resort in attempts to stimulate the economy--but should not oppose increasing the debt when necessary. 
Greg Hedges 

years ahead, and that the men here discover that the Women's 
Alumnae  Seminar  can  be  a  
valuable experience for  them,  
too.  

Carter's policy 
avoids, not evades 
intervention 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to respond to a 
number of points maae in Ronn 
Kirkwod's apologia of the 
Carter Administration, "Matter 
ofPolicy" (Observer, March 2). 
Mr. Kirkwood's characteriza­tion of Carter's foreign policy as "inactive" misses the point. It is more im,Portant to examine whether thts policy of inaction is the result of a coherent and well-thought-out foreisn policy program, or whether tt results from the failure of absence of such a policy. In other words, such an analysis hin~es on whether Mr. Carter's toaction is the result of "evasion" (which suggests a failure to be prepared for a crisis and carries with it the element of surprise) or "avoidance" (this suggests the capacity to predict an<1 even avert a crisis). It is the principle of avoidance that acts as the true measure of presi­dential leadership. A properly functioning $Overnment pre­vents the crists from occurring in the ftrst place. Political analysts seem to agree that both Iran and Southeast Asia are instances of the fonner and not the latter. Ofcourse, Carter need not take the full blame for this failure in leadership; he has been saddled with a foreign policy not entirely of his own making. This makes his par­tisan critics look somewhat shameless, if not irresponsible. 
Mr. Kirkwood's list of alter­
nat.ives (diplomac; a~~/or vartous degrees o mthtary response) for modifyin~ our policy are narrowly concetved. If these are to be of any success, a purposeful foreign r.olicy is necessary. These 
1 means'' canriot move toward undefined ends. Depending on what our goals are, there may exist a variety of ways to achieve these goals short of a military intervention into Southeast Asia proper. Indeed, it should be pointed out that fear of military intervention should be directed at Mr. Carter, not his critics. In a recent speech, Mr. Carter pledged U.S. military support to our allies in Southeast Asia (presumably Thailand). But most critics agree that Thailand is a very questionable ally. 
Finally, I find it difficult to believe that any conservative group in this country would provtde support for ~e gena­cidal Pol Pot regtme to 
Cambodia. Personal contacts in the American Conservative Union and the Philadelphia Society assure me of the exact opposite. Indeed, it was con­servatives who ftrst tried to draw attention to the Cambodian mass murders while liberals discreetly hid . their heads in the "sands" of post-Vietnam guilt and, in the words of Mr. Kirkwood, "self­
flagellation and paralysis" 
Barry 0 'Connor 

DOONESBURV by Garry Trudeau 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Editor-in-Chief ............ Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Spons Editor ............ Ray O'Bnlm 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calc*ll Features Editor . . . . . . . . . Chn's Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Lang henry Photo Editor . . . . . . . . .. ,Doug Christian The Obsnver is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary MiJ/s per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cacjj_? Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Samt Mary's Editor ...... FJ/en B*tid'J Business Manager ........ john T*c~er Mary's College. lr does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam· News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advenising Manager ........ Bob Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 
Features 
Thursday, March 8, 1979 -page 6 
Boxing: . Consider the Sport 
Boxing is an ambiguous sport. It can ran~e from a specta_cle of ~ostile aggresston to poetry 10 mouon. Students are impatient with the sport because they equate its intensity with hostility. They claim that boxing is immoral, and if I viewed the sport as they did, I would agree. It is immoral to step into the ring with the intent of physically injuring a person. It is 1mmoral to throw punches in a fit of brutality. Yet, such attitudes have nothing to do with the sport of boxing. 
Boxing is the art of hitting without being hit. The art is similar to the art of being a good linebacker. Both demand agility and quick reflexes. The fluency of a competitive boxing match is anything but immoral. One · man ducking a punch, only to come up with another lateral movement. Quick strong combinations of punches. The skill of a good boxer is fascinating to watch. Wtth this skill, though, comes a responsibility to use it a~ainst only those with comparable abihty. 
Unlike most other contact sports, a mismatch in boxing can be a serious, even immoral, mistake. This potential 
Walt Rogers 

danger, however, certainly is no argument for a blanket condemnation. The officials, and the boxers them­selves, must be aware of such possibi­lities. 
Admittedly, there are other poten­tial dangers 10 boxing, primarily due to its ambiguity. How can a fan distinguish between good, clean com­petition and the intent to injure? Instead of being a sport, boxing can be a means of venting hostility. But so can football or hockey. Before a student condemns boxing, let him/her ftrst consider the cheap shot artists on a football team. Boxingdoesnot foster malicious aggression, the competitors. do. The poetry of slipping a punch can easily be perverted 10to the fluency of butting an opponent with a head or elbow. 
Such dirty tricks, though, have as little to do with the sport as ''late hits'' have to do with football. So why not come and see the sport of boxing? The Bengal Bouts are guaranteed good, clean boxing. Your fellow-students are putting on an athletic exhibition for a noble cause. We would love your support. 

Edited by: Chris Stewart Photos by: john Macor . Layout by: Cindy MciGel 
I l 
~. 
,...-----------------------------------­
The Observer -Features Thursday, March 8, 1979 -page 7 

• 
••' 

~------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
The Observer Thursday, March 8, 1979 -page 8 
_Reagan launches com.m.ittee 'to explot·e campaign possibility 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Ronald  The  centerpiece .of  yester­ Also among the 'Ford" peo­ 
Reagan supponers announced  day's news conference here was  ple on th list, however, was Earl  
yesterday the formation of an  a  thick list of more  than 250  L. Butz, who had to withdraw as  
':;;;~~~~~~;;;;~~;;;;~;;;~~ It's Coming Fri. March 30th Prizes -Cash 1st-$150  exploratory 1980 presid,ential' campaign committee, boasting that he already has won over many onetime backers of Gerald R. Ford. Sen. Paul Laxalt, R-NV, who  names of persons who joined the Reagan bandwagon. Laxalt said that a full 25 percent of these persons had supponed Fordin 1976, when he barely nosed out Reagan to be the  secretary of agriculture in Ford's Cabinet after making a joke with racial ovenones in the in the midst of the campaign. The Reagan list also featured Hollywood celebrities, in­ 
headedReagan's1976 near-miss camtJaign tor the Republican presidential nomination, re­ferred to the new organi2:ation as an "exploratory effon. " Reagan s acceptance makes the group his principal cam­paign committee under fe·deral law, and makes the former  party's standardbearer. Listed among the Reagan backers were such Ford ad­ministration luminaries as for­mer Treasury Secretary William E. Simon and Caspar Weinber~er, an old Reagan ally from California who served as Secretary of Health, Education  cluding singer Pat Boone and daughter Debby and actresses Irene Dunne, Merle Oberon and Loretta Young. Laxalt, who will head the new committee, said Reagan now represents the mainstream of American thinking and has become "by all odds the sttong­ 
California governor a legall can. didate for president.  and Wlfare during the first part of Ford's two-and-a-half-year  est potential 1980."  candidate  for  
In a letter authorizing forma­ administration.  John P. Sears, who oversaw  
call Gene 1803or Mary 7375 for more info  tion of the committee, however, Reagan said he would "make the final decision concerning  Ford's 1976 campaign manager, Houston lawyer James Baker, is now running  the day-to-day operations of the 1976 campatgn and will do likewise thts time around, noted  


COLLEGE GRADUATES 
DON'T TAKE CHANCES WITH YOUR PARALEGAL CAREER­NOT ALL LAWYER'S ASSISTANT PROGRAMS ARE THE SAME 
A Roosevelt University Lawyer's Assistant rep­resents the mark of quality and acceptance in today's legal community. 
If you are a college graduate and qualify, why not give yourself an advant~ge by attending R~evelt Univer­sity's Lawyer's Ass1stant Program wh1ch Is fully ac­credited by the American Bar Association. 
Since the Fall of 1974, 1,250 graduates representing over 230 colleges and universities have chosen Roose­velt's Lawyer's Assistant Program for their career training. 
Specialize in: Corporations-Estates, Trusts and Wills -Litigation-Real Estate and Mortgages-Employee Benefit Plans*-or become a Generalist*. 
Over 325 law firms, banks, corporations and govern­mental agencies throughout the United States have hired Roosevelt graduates. 
* evenin1 pro1ram only. SESSIONS 
0 Spring Day/February 12-May 4, 1979 o Spring Evening/March 13-August 25, 1979 0 Summer Day/June 11-:August 3:; 1979 0 Fall Day/September 24-Decem~ 17, 1979 0 Fall Evening/September 11, 1979-March 1, 1980 
Recruiter in Placement Office. March 15, 19 79 
---------SEND TODAY -------~­
Lawyer's Assistant Program -.~ ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY (312) 341-3882 ~ 
430 South Michigan Avenue Chicago, Illinois 60605 /119 Please send me information on Roosevelt's Pantlepl Pro1ram. 0 Sprin1 Day Pro1ram 0 Sprinl Evening f>rolram 
0 Summer Dey Program · 0 Fall Day Pro1ram 0 Fall Evenin1 Pro1ram 
~m'L--------------------------------­
Address__________________Phon..________ 
City State z;P-:--~-::­Roosevelt UniversitY. admits students on the basis of Indi­1 vidual merit and Without regard to race, color, creed, sex, or 
the candidacy for president the campaign of former CIA that Reagan is bein~ perceived later this year. " The formal director George Bush, who has "as more of a centnst because declaration is expected some­a presidential committee and is there is a candidate in the race time in September, according to expected to announce his can­to the right of him." Reagan intimates. didacy soon. Pressed to identify this candi­
date, Sears named Rep. Philip 
M. Crane, R-11, who an­nounced for the Republican 
nomination last August. Crane was an active Reagan supporter in 1976. 
... O'Hare 
[continued from page I] paramaters which 'student 
Laxalt also fielded the oft­position. The system does not rights' can extend to." 
repeated question of Reagan'syield to an idealistic coor­She emphasized that the suc­age, saying that matter woulddinator, so I suppose I am now cess of student rights endea­be "quickly disposed of by the more realistic than wh•en I 
vors depends to the degree to time of our first primary vic­entered office. " which students try to work with tory. " Reagan is 68.
During her term, the issue of the administration. 
student ri_ghts has arisen often. 
''The council is ready for new
Rizzo beheves that "ther~: has 
leadership," Rizzo said, adding 
been movement in the area. As 
"The council is established and 
.. . Reps 
the J-Boards are given more 
ready to move on, and I think
responsibility and take more 
Jim O'Hare will be excellent." 
responsibility, even more pro­[continued from pQge 1] gress will be made." She Until April 1, Rizzo will refme Sniegowski replied that the tempers this statement by the Judicial Coordinator's by­candidate search procedure will stressing, "As a Catholic iinstt­laws which are ''sometimes 
be taken "right up to the tution and because of Indiana nebulous" and assist O'Hare president's desk. (University
state laws, there are ddinite during the time of transition. President) Fr. (Theodore M.) Hesburgh will have an acttve role in choosing the endowed chair." He noted that the I committee also was looking at
I, Issues 
''the whole ~rson--we must 
[continued from page 3] create a gap between SMC and take into consideration the per­Trigiani entered into a slightly ND. We have a paper and that son's vitality and intellectual 
curiosity." ··emotional discussion of the paper is the Observer," Trig­

validity of a campus news­tani stated. Chair candidates have been paper. Both panies concurred that reviewed by the Ans and Glockner stated that she feels "positive action" is the key to Letters Appointments and 
Promotions Committee, whichthat students want an informa­the improvement of campus 
tive paper, but that the o~~ser­security. The two tickets consists of Miles Coiner, associ­ver isn't covering imponant pointed out that the security ate professor of speech and Administrative decisions and force is goinB under extensive drama, and Debra Sedore, de­that a SMC newspaper would physical traming· and future panment lecturer. This com­
fill this ~ap. developments include a secu­mittee is chaired by Lifton who Trigian1 expressed much con­rity guard booth stationed near also is chairman of the search cern over this issue, stressing the main gate and a security committee. The recommenda­
the fact that a campus news­shuttle escon service. tions of the Appointments and paper would ultimately be self­Promotions Committee have aefeating in purpose. "Creat­been submitted to Isabel 
ing our own newspaper would Charles, dean of the College of
L~~~~~~~~-----------------J 
Ans and Letters. She will select a University committee to [continued from pQge 10) make the fmal chair recom­
... Shuttle 
ND-SmC Student Union presents: 
and considerably extending the mendation tO Provost Timothy 
lives of many payloads. O'Meara and Hesburgh. Eventually, the shuttle fleet The chair was instituted by a
Tuesday, march 13 7:30 ~\~ 
may ferry people and pans for gift by W. Harold Welch, class building solar satellites, space o£1924, to reflect his interest in 
O'Laughlln Aud.-Smc 
factories, moon bases and habi­speech . communications. tats for colonies far from Eanh. Welch stated at the time of his "The more we fly the shuttle, donation that the endowed the more things we'll discover professorship was intended ''to to do with it," said Scherer. call attention to Notre Dame's 
To prepare for an expected 40 traditional strength in the area to 50 launches a year in the of communications and to spur 1980s, shuttle bases are being innovative scholarship in the 
field.•• Dick Lyon, chief of the proj­The normal amount of 
"\~\~~~ ~~~ 

built here and in California. 

-
ect engineering office here, endowment for University said wherever possible, NASA chairs is $800,000, the interest is modifying Ar.ollo facilities for of which is used to fmance the shuttle. 'About the only salliry, travel, secretarial and 
things we've had to build are research expenses. the 15,000-foot runway and two At the time of the gift,
Ftee admission to 
orbital processing facilities," Hesburgh commented, ''The he said. The latter are hangars promise of communication is where shuttles will be refur­understanding, and the fruit of
students and faculty kRfskJN 
bished after missions. understanding is community. 

The Observer 
Space stations on the horizon 
Shuttle marks newera in space 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) · The space shuttle and a new era of exploration is at hand, and it can't come soon enough for the people here whose job is dispatching men into the cosmos. 
It's been nearly ten years since Americans first set foot on die moon and four years since the United States last sent men into space. The launch pads of Mercury and Gemini and Apollo and Skylab are silent now, many gone, their girders sold for scrap. 
The shuttle is a reusable vehicle capable of making 100 or more roundtrips into space. ­It will be used to carry up satellites, repair satellites in orbit and perhaps evenrually lead to the first stations where man can live and work in space. 
The work force at the Kennedy Space Center here, at 27,000 in the Apollo heyday, is down to 10,600. Those left have watched with envy as the Russians have regularly launched men into space, breaking all American en­durance records. 
America's last manned space flight was a joint mission with the Soviets in 19n. Since then, rwelve Soyuz craft, bearing a total of 24 cosmonauts, have rocketed into orbit. 
While watching the Soviets, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration has been developing a new manned craft · the shuttle. 
That program reaches a mile­stone on Saturday when a Boeing 747 jet sets down here. Perched on its back will be Columbia, the first shuttle ear­marked for space. It is being ferried cross-country from the Rockwell International plant at Palmdale, CA. 
Thousands of workers and their families are expected to rurn out to greet it. "They're excited, you can feel a great increase in the pulse here," Center Director Lee Scherer said in an interview. 
''Their job is putting men in space, and finally, they're going to get another manned vehicle to work on,'' he said. "They can't wait to ~et their hands on the damn thtng." 
Months of work lie ahead before the shuttle is ready to fly. The main engines have to be tested, delivered and in­stalled. Thermal tiles must be positioned to protect Columbia from searing re-entry heat. Booster rockets and fuel tanks must be readied. The launch is scheduled Nov. 
9. But Scherer conceded NASA is working on a "success­oriented'' schedule. 
"If there's a problem of any magnitude, it could cause a delay. We'll have a better handle on how we're doing after a couple months. We're dealing with a very sophisti­cated machine that is pushing 
the  state  of the  art,  and  we  
won't  launch  until  we  are  
ready," Scherer said.  
How sophisticated?  

The shuttle is a space plane · 
Meet Your 
~ 

Major cfJ 7:30pm o'V .~<{, Sunday ~" March 11
# 1060'Shag 
a hybrid of rocket, spacecraft and airplane. After each flight into space, it, will glide back to a landing on a three-mile long runway and be towed to a hangar to be readied for an­other trip within two weeks or so. 
Each of the four shuttles approved by Congress will be capable of making 100 or more roundtrips into SJ?ace. 
The main engme, the most advanced rocket power plant ever, is made to burn super­cold liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen. Pressures inside the chamber are four times greater than those in the engines that drove Apollo's Saturn V rocket. 
Columbia's frrst flight will be relatively brief, a 54-hour orbi­tal test. The astronauts will be ] ohn Young, a veteran of four space trips, including a moon walk, and Robert Crippen, a rookie spaceman. 
Five, or six test flights are planned before Columbia is operational, probably in 1981. Then it will be ready _to do things never tried before in space. The frrst 28 flights are 
1

r-----------------------------------­
1 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
sold out to government agen­cies, industry and others who want to put payloads into orbit. 
The shuttles will put satel­lites in space for research, weather forecasting, communi­cations and military reconnais­sance. They will carry up a small European Space Agency station called Spacelao. 
The space planes will have a capacity of hauling up to 65,000 pounds and, once in orbit, also will launch probes bound for other planets. 
Each shuttle can carry up to seven people · some of them women. Six women currently are in training. Crews will be able to repair an ailing satellite in orbit or bring it back to Earth for maintenance, cutting costs 
[continued on page B) 

Buy Classlfleds ftom 
The Observer 

I 


I I
Of 
I I 
I

Dollars Found I 
I

Trash On pus. I I 
I I I I

Check around your campus community. You, too, 
I 

may be able to collect an educational award of up to a 
I

thousand dollars if you Pitch In! Groups from campuses 
I

all over the country were awarded $8,750 last year by 
I

participating in Pitch In! Week. 
I

This year, Budweiser and ABC Radio Network will 
I

again reward participating colleges, universities and 
I

approved campus organizations who participate in Pitch 
I

In! Week. Five groups will -win $1,000 in first place 
I

educational awards, five second place groups will win 
I

$500, and five third place groups will win $250. 
I

For entry rules and the Pitch In! Week program kit, 
I

simply send in the attached coupon. 
I I

-----------------------------------I
1979 National College Pitch In! Week Of 
I April 2-6. Pitch In! And Win Cash. I I 
NAME ______________________________~---­

I 
COLLEGE _________________________________ 
I 

ADDR~S--~---------------------------­
I 

CITY __________STATE ____ZIP ___ 
I

~ 
ORGANIZATION ON CAMPUS----------­

I
Mail to: College Pitch In:! Week Desk, c/o ABC Radio Network 1330 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10019 • 
I 

Competition void where prohibited by law, 
I I

-----------------------------------I 
I 
I 
'­
...

'•. '':',I
'i 

The Observer -Sports 
... Fiscal 
[continued from page 4] 
Another policy proposed by leading economists would be man-power training programs, which would enable skilled labor to receive employment. 
This also would stabilize em­ployment only at a low level. 
Two other possible alterna­tives proposed by Killingsworth were mobility assistance, which grant federal money for the unemployed to move where he could find employment, and tax credit for employers, which is federal money given to em­ployers who hire disadvantaged 
The Daily Crossword 
All Rights Reserved 

Molarity 

~ND 
SMC 
THEATRE 
SPRING'S AWAKENING 
A CHILDHOOD TRAGEDY BY Frank Wedekind 
March 2,3,7,8,9,& 10 8:00pm 
O'Laughlin Auditorium tickets $2.50 
I~----------------· 
any UnOenqnaO llvJnq 0~~-campus I ln€XtYeaR •s €lJGJBt€ toB€th€1979-SCJ I I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
1 appltcattons avatlasl€ tn th€ II Stub€nt (jovammmt orr•C€ I 
I I
1 2n0 ~loon la,:Ontun€ 0€aOlJn€ I 1 mmcht6 1 
I f:oR ruRth€R Ottalls contactJohn r•tzpat~ICk I 
I 7668-277-2874 I 
·----------------~ 
Thursday, March 8, 1979 -page 10 
persons. Both of these pro­grams could work, yet often times are inefficient. 
''With these alternatives available, today's economists are probably closer now than ever to agreeing upon an ade­quate devise for curbing unem­ployment,'' Kilingsworth re­marked. 
Killingsworth concluded his 
ACROSS ~~ Nazimova 1 Carrie ~!Overrun 
Chapman-35 Rock's 5 Cook's abbr. partner 9 Wearing 3i' Testing 
13 Father: Sp. place 14 Army group 38 Strutting 15 Taken: Fr. fowl 16 Mountain 40 Innocence 
nymph 42 Self impor­17Artillery tance 
exchange 43 Mineral 19 Foists earths 21 Roman 45 Tablewine 
general 46 Tipplers 22 "Watch 48 Sport shoe your-" 50 Depressed 23 Abominable 52 Legend 
snowman 53 Faineant 25 Little: Fr. '!'i1 Schoolsin 26 Gives Metz 
heed to 60 Accuser 
lecture by stating that the elimination of unemployment enables others to live a safer, more enjoyable life. "This sense of hopefulness resides in the fact that today's economists must recognize the superior alternatives to unemployment, with a proposal of pubic service employment programs as this viable superior alternative." 

5 " ...sat on a-" 
6 Brandy holder 7 Islamic 
instructor 8 Gooseor fox 9 Russian peninsula 10 Hoaxer 
Dull pain 12 Tariff 13 Boston 
orchestra 
with vanity 
62 Took to 
heart 64 Perfect 65 Thorny 
flower 66 Lilyplant 67 World-weary 68 Unclosed, 
to poets 69 Disencum­
bers 70 Bronte's Jane 
DOWN 1 Gem measure 2 Fred's 
sister 
3 Rides roughshod over 
4 Driesnew­mownhay 
20 Items 

in44D 24 Hep 27 Proportion 
words 28 Let up 30 Behindhand 31 Help in 
crime 32 Nettles 33 Nothing doing 34 Not con­fined 
36 --Rousse, France 39 Landlord's 
due 41 In a diver­sified way 44 Clams, shrimp etc. 47 Did a one­man stint 49 Puts in a row 51 Take to the altar 54 Gloomy, to poets 55 Apartment 
contract 56 A Gardner 57 Riverin 
Spain 58 Harvest 59 Brand 61 Scoff 63 551, in 
old Rome 
Michael Molinelli 
wHY RIGHT N(J.J-WE COUL'D !NOT GET INSII>E THIS• ~ . IF IJE WAAITEl> TO. 
NO WAY -ro GffiNTD 
THIS 8U/L.C>JNG. 

Student Diiscounts with ID 
Case Dicounts 
PABST 
24 $559 24
PAl PAl 
CHECK OUR LOW LIQUOR PRICES: 

... Badgers 
[continued from page 12J 
igan Tech, 6-1, for an 11-4 advantage. In the other playoff game, Denver tied the total goals count at six each with a 4-1 advanta~e over Duluth after regulation ume. Duluth went on to win in overime, by claiming a 7-6 advantage. . 
Regular season champton North Dakota will host Wiscon­sin for the second round this Saturday and Sunday, while Duluth will travel to Minnesota in the other series. 
...NIT 
[continued from page 12) 
Boilermakers lose, the Dayton­Holy Cross winner would be the host team on Monday. 
Purdue's 7-foot-1 J·unior cen­ter]oe Barry Carrol is expect­ed to be a major problem for a short Chippewa squad which doesn't have a starter taller than 6-8. Carroll, a third-team All-American pick, led the Big Ten in scoring with a 23.8 
. average and avera~ed 22.4 for the season. He mtssed claim­ing the conference rebounding title by a single rebound. "We have faced 7-foot cen­ters before," Parfitt said, "but no one the caliber of Joe Barry Carroll." Carroll, already seventh on Purdue's all-time scorin.s list with 1,313 points, hit double figures in all 30 of Purdue's games this season. His 672 points topped by 31 his com­bined point total as a freshman and sophomore. '')oe Barry has responded to the challenge all year long," Rose said. "If there's a better center in the country, I'd like to see him play." Guard Jerry Sichting was the only other Boilermaker to aver­age in the double figures. The 6-1 senior, who hit on 87 percent of his 100 free throws, averaged 13.3. Forward Drake Morris and Arnette Hallman each averaged eight points per game. Balanced scoring was the story for Central Mtchigan this season. Guard Dave Grauzer is the team's leading scorer, averaging approximately 14.3 points per game. ­
In ftrst-round NIT action last night, Billy Williams hit two free throws with 12 seconds remaining in overtime to lift Clemson to a 68-67 victory over Kentucky. 
In other NIT games last night, Ohio State beat St. Joseph's (Pa.), 80-66; Mary­land edged Rhode Island, 67-65, in three overtimes; Old Dominion slipped by Wagner, 83-81, and Vrr_ginia defeated Northeast Louistana, 79-78. 
ARmANDO'S 

BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 1437 N.lronwood Dr. South Bend 
277-0615 

Sue, Ruthie, Kim 
Armando-stylist 
mon-fri 8-5:30 sat 8-2 by appt. only sat-no appt. needed 
-"-----------------------~------­
The Observer Thursday, MaJ:ich 8 1979 -page 11
' 

I I I  Notices  
Gay students of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Gay Information line 8870 Fri. March 9 10 rcm·mldnl~ht, Sat. March 10 10 pm-mldn ght or wr Ia PO Box 206  
Auditions for Land of the Dragon a children's ~lay Wed., Thurs., March 7. 8 7 pm Was lngto n Hall All welcome. Attention May Grads· Friday, March 91s the last day to apply for a Morrissey loan. No exceptions. Anyone Interested In a bus to New York City or long Island for break call Rita by Thurs. 11 pm  
Attantlan 111 LltJIR Voluntael'l 1nd Interested Students! This Saturday, from 9-11:30 a.m. at the lo~an Center will be the first annual blr hday party rae for mental!~ handl­capped kids In our community. twill be everyone's birthday party on Saturday! with lots of games, good times and cake and Ice creanl So come and join the ~arty! Other logan activities: Bowling rldayafternoon 3:20p.m. NO library Circle. Cake Bake Frida~ afternoon 2:00p.m. at logan Center. uastlons or ride rob-lams call Mike 1371 or Sue 4-1-483 . Nocturne Nlghtfll~ht. WSND-89 FM Jim O'Brien features he Flames, "Ouelm of the Neighborhood" tonight. -----------­-Lost&Found lost: !'Black Hills Gold Ring with maplr leaf and grape design and one small silver ring en9raved with the "University of Wyomln~. ' Reward. leave messagefor J. Farre I at 7942. lost or stolen: ladles size 8 brown leather ~loves. Please return to 339 Walsh or ost and Found In the Ad. Bldg. --------------­lost: Gold Waltham watch Saturday nl~hl near Senior Bar. Please call Tina 51 1 If found. Thanks! ----------­Lost: diamond ring, extreme sentimental value. No questions asked. $25 reward. Julia 4-1-5407 -------------------------­Found: A gold filled Our lady of lourdes necklace outside Madaleva Hall last week In Feb. Call 277-2874. For Rent House for rant. summer only, close to campus excellent condition, will accomo­date one to five students. For lnforma­lion contact Greg Cress 287-5361 evan­lngs. Available for AuRust-flve bedroom house-completely urnlshed. Call 234­ 
9364 after 5:00 p.m. Wanted  
Need ride to NYC area-northern New Jersey, New York or long Island • can leave Thursday·wlll share driving and expanses. Rob, 8532 or 8528. Wanted: ND-laSalle basketball ~ro­~ams/scorecards. Also, last year's 0­lsslsslppl. Will bull or trade. Phone (616) 471-1377 or (61 ) 983-Q285, nights. Need ride to Chlca~o March 9, Desper­ate. Call SMC 4007 I Halpll Need a ride to eastern NY for break. Will share driving and expenses.Call Sharon at 4-1-4259. Need rides to or throu~h Albany, N.Y. for break. Share$$$ and riving. Steve 3191. Need ride to Syracuse for break. Call Jim 8376 Need ride to Bloomington, Indiana March 16 Chris 3508 Two students need ride to lauderdale area over break. Will share drlvinp and expenses. Call Pat 1827 or Mike 28 -8359 Desperately In need of ride to NYC or Long Island for s~rln~ break. Don't leave me stranded In out Bend! Call Brian 8671. Help! Need ride to N.J. or anywhere near for spring break. Call Dan at 1431. --------------­Two guys desperately need ride to Alba~ • Kingston nyc area for March break. Ca 1 Jim or Craig at 1225. Going to Connecticut? Need a ride. (NYC or even New Jersey will do · I'm that desperate!) Call Frank at 3213.  

Classifieds 
Will proffer eternal gratitude and gas to Congrats to:
One Homellte chain saw, E-z 16 Inch bar, Nazz Music Competition
kind soul who can get me to O'hare by two chairs carrylnj. case, good condition. March 30 For Info. Call Gene (1803) or Molly Dolly (lyons) Jim Devine 
noon March 17. Please call Chris 3124. Call after 4:00 27 -5418 Mary )7375) andJim Rice (Morrissey) Mlkl Root 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.. two dars prior to the .1ssue mwh1ch the ad Is run. The Oburvar office wil accept c1ass1heds Monday throuqh Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All claos1heds must be pre-paid, either In person or through the mail. 
(Howard) John McGrath (Heaven) -Re­clplents of "The Adonis Is Upon Us"
HCP presents "Studio HC" A disco 
T ·shirts. Other winners • your T·shirts arFunktlon Phase II featurl':ll a full Disco 
coming. Trust Me.
Sound and Ll~ht Show Frl ay March 9, 9 
The Adonis·2 a.m. Holy ross Hall Auditorium (NO) listen to The Adonis tonight 9·11 pm In

Adm. $50. We did It before, We'll boo~le 
WSND-for the baddest music.
bigger and better this time. Don't M ss 
PURDUE! Need ride to Purdu~Wast 
For sale: Yamaha FG230 12 strln~ultar.
lafayette) Mar. 9th, Call Mike 1 . 
?~~.8sed 6 months. Asking $1 . Call Need ride to Atlanta, Ga. for break. Can 
.For sale: DBX II 122 Noise reduction
leave Wednesday afternoon. Call 4·1· system three months old. Need bucks4354 or 1001 . 
bad. Only $185.00 Call Gene 11803. 
Help! Need ride to U. of Illinois this Sony 5 band AM/FM shortwave radio It! Only 11 more days until Pat Campbellweekend. Brian 8682. hits the Florida Sun I
HP-25 programmable calculator. Call Jim SuKerfly,
7715 6-10 p.m. P.S. laurl, I'll get tanner!
II my luck and love will be with you InDesperate: need ride to Atlanta. Will share exflensas can leave Mar. 15 after 10 For Sale 1151 Austin H11~ "Bug EC" 
a.m. Ca I Joe at 8583. 
Sprltl 21000 1ctu11 mll11. ever wrec 1d or rustld aut. Llc1naed four tlmea In 14 
Tune-ugsl Does your car need a tune-up 
~111'1. HIVI arlginll hardtot:.lnd canVIf·before reak? Call Jim 8404 bl1 soft tap. G1t 33 and 1 If miles per e1llan. In mint condition and runs
FREE MONEY-For just one ride to 
eautlfu~. HIVe custom built taw b1r 
Was~lngton, D.C. area, or thereabouts. Phone 2 -3508. · Won t take up much room. Call Tom 
3452. ' 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun.l-7 Ralph C11per1an 1303 Buch1n1n Rud 
Wanted-ride for three to D.C. or Niles. 683-2888. ' 
the ring tonight. I.b. says you can take lt. 
BEAN IDIOTlove, 

The Observer needs people who enJoy
B.K. 

meeting people who enJoy doing layout. · (We also need reporters but 1 don't careWhen he was a little kid, Bill's mother 
about them. Sea personal below.) Comefed him with a slingshot. vote Bill Nelllst learn about layout meet beautiful ~Iris,UMOC 
' great·lookl':fe guys (whatver you're nto)and have a ecent time. Come to 3rd floorLu Ann 
LaFortune any nl~ht except Friday orliPICIDE IS CONTAGIOUS SHARE Saturday. Be thereIT WITH THE ONE YOU lOVE THE 
Scoop

MOSTEST. meet you at the grotto tonight. mynorthern Va. for break. Can leave after 2 
p.m. on the 16th. Call Rod-8384 or leave note In Observer Office. 
WSND-AM·FM Is now taking appllca­lions for business mana~er. Must have extensive accounting bac~und. This Is a paid position. Call 277-for details. 
Cute Cathy Is looking for someone to give 1,2, or 3 peo&le ride to Boston at break. Call her at 6 59. 
Need ride (s)  ro  Downstate New  York  
area  (1·80  or  1-84)  for  Spring  Break.  
Coleen 060.  

Need ride during break to Eastern Pa. or on 1-80 . Call Doug 1008. 
FLORIDAII Need ride to west coast of Florida ­Tampa/St. Pete area. Call Pat 6784. 
Desperately need ride to Philadelphia for break Call Kathy 11340. 
Need ride to Washington D.C. Can leave Wed. Mar. 14. Will help drive and will pay. Call John 3305. 
Need ride for 2 to Maryland-D.C. are for spring break. Will share exr.enses and driving. Please call Karen 4--4522. 
Need ride for 2 to Fr. Myers Florida over break. Can leave Wed. Call Brian 1423. 
Need ride to lone Island for sprlny break. Will share In xpenses. Call ohn at 3507. 
radials will be ready to ride us Into We also need sorne reporters. like to 
forever. write? Call Mike at 1715. See your byline COSMICALlY YOURS, 
In Th1 Observer. Norton The Road Runner Scoop ''lllp·BIIP)
---
To all Obsarverltes and former friends of 
V.E.l (SAM) KEVIN WAlSH -the mad rapist has What will I do without you? Gonna returned to haunt the halls of N D for a miss yal Have fun ·love you! last semester. Stop by 139 Stanford or the xxooo admissions office to say hello. Sam's Girlfriend, S.M.D. Signed 
WednesdayANNIE, 
Joey: you Slovakian version of Spring-HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY, steen:JOHNNY I could understand If It sucking your
--------------
thumb gave you securlt~. But what wouldIt's comln~ I Nazz Music Competition • 
Freud say If he knew t at your thumb IsMarch 30t . Enter your act today! (Dead doubling as a saxaphone?
line Is Tues. March 13th) Watarbads and Jimmy Buffet 
P.S. Whale do you expect from a Souther
Can anyone catch 1nlmal? ---------------Ohlan? Washboards are more my style, 
not thumbs.
Freshman Frolic this Friday 9·1 StepanCenter $1.00 Refreshments. 
NO Woman's B-Ball team, Rocky, 
Now I know what rceo~le mean when they talk about "pr de' and "class."
Good luck tonight! Win or lose you'll Thanks for putting me up (and putting up
always be our champ. 
with me). You're the greatest!
love always, ·ChrisLulu and Chrissy Need ride to Fort Wayne March 91 CallSurreptitious, Char 4-1-5194

These restless nights have got to cease, no wonder my Father flunked out of Sean,college. I'll be waiting. 
Have a terrific time In Ireland! Don't
Anxiously
•

---------------forget to send a postcard! 
MargieGet Your Act Together! Enter the Nazz Music Competltion ...entry blanks avail-To Funky Monkey and little Man

able until Tues. March 13th. Check We hope everything works out w'all this 
Personals 
Will someone PlEASE let John Russell o~t of the maid's closet In Cavanaugh?It s almost time for campus wide "closet extrovert" elections. He's a sura bet. 
Ed· 

N,ormalls only relative to the Archives 
you re ln. Here at N.D., you're up against 
tou9h competition: fonts of knowledge
PB adherents, Yankee fans, cheer: 
leaders and photographr buffs etc. etc. 
Just keep telling yoursel you are normal 
• somebody maybe even Bruce will believe you. 
Bam Swing-Have a wunderbar (?) time with the real McCoy! I couldn't resist the B.S., for old times' sake...Guess Who? 
PAS HEAD 
They say beauty Is only skin deep -but y~ur looks chill us to the marrow. What did we do to deserve your u~ly face In our room? Whatever It was, t must have been bad ... 
JR, Bob and evan Paul, maybe 

Nazz Music Co~etltlon arch 30 For Info. Call Gene (1803] or Mary [7375] 
C-M;~h~-;;mtle gr~;P;;
tonight and then get stanky 
F.M.O.C. stands for Fat Man On Campus 
posters for mora details. ------------------weekend like we all want It to. Good luck. 
We miss you.
Jeannine, Carolina and California girl
Happy 21st Birthday! Hope It's a SuperDay! · 
Yo Buddies,
love, 

Hope you will acknowledge this
Kathy,Trlsh,llsa 

attempt at communication. We used our last dollars to pay for lt.
WSND·AM 640~!resents: 
Your buddies.

The S1turday ::.f:J AII-Raquest Show P.S. We won't hold our breath waiting to
16-12 mid. C11l or 7435 Hast Mike 
hear from you -we'll dlel
Ewing. 

Allz Mon Freaz,
Attention M1rketlng M1jor1 Did ~ou ever learn how to swim or get the
Remember us wh1n voting on TUIS., 
rhyt m of the stroke? I want your bodyMarch 13. 
and I think you're sexy!
Jaff Stlhl· Pres. R1ndy [Bubbl] Kozik· 
Your sweat sugarVIce Pres. K1y D1Rach1 SIC. John [Duff]Duffy-Tr111. 

-TH Flanner's BD-28 lony Time No SeeThinksI 
Happy Hour at Goose's Fr-3-6 Need ride to beautiful Clev111nd Ohio 
Pat and John-Frida~ Marcil I. Will lhlra 1xpens11: Glad we ware the ones picked to screw
C1ll ritz. 3580. Op1rata1'1 lfl now on 
Need ride to Dallas for spring break. Call 
Mary Meg at 8037. 
Need ride to Buffalo or Niagara Falls for 
Sprln.Jl Break. Will share In all expenses. 
Call ean at 8037. 
Need ride home for March break. Goln~ west on 1-80 to Des Moines. Iowa. Ca 1 Scourge 2136 
Desperately need ride to New York City area for bre1k. Piaase call Monlc1 1t 4-1-4n2. 
I need a ride to Ct., please (Even NY city or New Jarse~ will do • I'm that desperate) Call rank at 3213. 
Billy Cuddy far F.M.O.C. Sorry Big Guy 
rn~;~~ents~h;;;~maket~
Cubs-met opener sea Matt at 315 Dillon or 16637 
Marketers! Dave Clarke 5 Happy Hour Friday 3-6 at Goose's 
LuA~7----------------­
I TINK DAT WE IS A DA MODERN VERSION OF JUliO AND ROMIETTE WITHOUT THE TRAGEDY. . 
LIKE,UH KNOW WHAT I MEAN? Norton 
Patti, Tuesday was Wednesday. Wednesday 
you. Thanks for Saturday and aoraduty, standing by far your Clll. 
throats. Mand M
let's go ABCD. You deserve to wlnl '80 Senior Class Officers 
Walt Boyer got aJobII! Stop by Eline and congratulate him.
WE'RE lACK IN THE SADDLE AGAIN Sarah Grathwohl Curtis, formerly of 
Anna Struhs,Lau~hlln Place, Is now Instructing at 
Want to chan~e your Image? I'll see
Kelt Hell's Stable In Niles, Michigan. 
what I can do. 0 dear!
Heated Arana14 maximum In class/ 
Fun and excitingEnglish or Western/ 4 lessons • In 

Bo

advance $40.001 Thursday evenings, Saturda~ afternoons 
Tim,

Call Jo ell after 7:00 1683-4467 
I'd rather be a bean head 
Attention Saint Mary's! I Now your Katie Dudley
chance to give that special someone (I.e. 
Wanna be esoteric with me?
Domer, roommate, professor best enemy Kevinetc) aJ1ersonal In the Obs1rv1rl Contact 
the S Coffice In the basement of Regina ------------­
REDHEADS: Meeting Tuesday, MarchSouth or call 5364 for mora Information II 13 of the Redhead League, at 6:30 In
(from 12-1 pm)------------Keenan Conference Room (Bring $2.00 
dues, please.)
DAVE BREHl Don:t forget that name, and you surely Announcing the beginning of the Brother won t forget the face (we just hope you Bruce All-American Kazoo Band!! Sodon't have nightmares about It) 
Bruces, get your Kazoo and Join us. First ~ractlce will be held Monday. Same
Thanks to all who made the K of C Disco ruce place, same Bruce time.
the IUCCell thlt It Wll. Judging from the tremendous response there Ia 1 David Thomas Nix,
definite need for 1 pl1ce to dance on this Happy Birthday, I love you forever.
camrs.Wa ho~e to be able to fill that 
Madamolsell Tusch 

nee again In t e future. 
Kels, 

looking for apt. mate to share two bedroom a~t. near Chicago's west side batnnlng una 1. If Interested call Bob at 27 -5665 (Campus VIew) 
Part time -two men needed to work reception desk at Castle Point Rac~uat Club late evenings and weekends. all the activities coordinator at 232-8297. 
was Friday. Thurday was a~rehenslve 
Friday Is HEAVEN I lOVE OU. . Kathy 3845. Can leave Mar. 16 or 15. Dave Minnesota: need ride to St. Paul. Call 
, 

ABCD ABCD Steve Bruemmer Timothy Emmett Dages Missy Conboy Karan Allg ABCD ABCD 
Help! Need ride to eastern N.Y. for Kevin [1ll11 KD] 
break. Will share expenses. Please call V1lentln1 par~on11 1rrlvea 1pp111xl­Sharon 4-1-4259. m1tllt ene month late, partially biCIUII af laz n111 1nd also 1 w11 an 1 salllng 
Need ride to Pittsburgh for break. Will 
crulsa. share expenses. Please call leslie. 4-1-MB 
5114 P.S. Bl Clreful wh1n your burn th1 
midnight candil. Need ride to Conn. Can leave after Wed. Call 4-1-4363. To my friends, 
Thanks for the tate night beers, the Goln~ skllnJ over break? Or Just going morning surprises, the cake, and the west I nee riders to Colorado. Call John celebration -It made my 21st one I'll 
at1991. never forget. love. Sheila D.
For Sale 
FRIDAY IS THE DAY YOU'VE BEEN WAITING FOR • HUG A REDHEAD DAY II 
Classic Peugeot 404 !900 Call 288·9277 
Artoo, Fish, S&M, Public Nuasance the GOING TO FlORIDA? Excellent trans-Shadow, Big Red, and Brother Borwn ~ortatlon: 1966 DodBe, ~Is. auto, V-8, ?he head-red) send sreatlng to all their 
ndlana Inspected 28 -58 8, 6·11 p.m. rlends In Farlye, P, Walsh, Badin, 
lewis and Lyons. 1974 Pinto wa~on, good ~as mileage -------------­
Patrick Jordan,
exceptional eng na, good ru bar. $1,2 o' Annie, You're stllltopsll
The bearded wonder has disappeared. 
-48,000 miles. Call after 4:00 272·5418. Happy 22nd Birthday, 
Which Is the real you?
Johnny 

r 
Thursday, March 8, 1979 -page 12 

The semi-final round of this year's Bengal Bouts will be held tonight at 8 p.m. at the Athletic and Convocation Center. Tickets wzll be on sale throughout the day at Gate 10 of the ACC. Sunday's championship bouts have been moved to 7p.m., allowing fans to watcb the Notre Dame regional basketball game andsttll catch the fights. [Photo by john Maco1•J 
At Mackey Arena 
Boilermakers tip off in NIT 
tough defeat and having to play two daY.s later against a team the cahber of Purdue is a new experience.'' 
Thursdat's winner plays the survivor o a ftrst-round game between Dayton and Holv Cross next Monday. If Purdue wins, the Boilermakers host the second-round game. If the 
[continued on page lOJ 
Badgers outskate Irish as season comes to end 
by Brian Beglane Sports Writer 

MADISON, Wis.--The Notre Dame hockey team ended its Western Collegiate Hockey Association season last night with a 5-2 loss to the Wisconsin Badgers and a six-game losing streak. 
The Wisconsin victory gave it a 16-7 edge in total goals for this ftrst-round playoff series at the Dane County Coliseum. 
The loss dropped Notre Dame's overall record to 18-19­1, the ftrst time the Irish have dipped below the .500 mark all year. Wisconsin's victory gave the Badgers 25-12-2 record and enabled them to move on to the second round of the WCHA playoffs. 
"There's not too much that you can say when you play four games like we did," said Notre Dame Coach Lefty Smith. "Wisconsin just stuck it to us, and except for the ftrst period tonight, outplayed us all four games. GIVe them credit. They played very well.'' 
After Tuesday night's 11-5 bombardment, Notre Dame en­tered last ni&ht' s game trailinR by six goals m the series. ] eff Losan ~ave Notre Dame some qutck hfe just 1:26 into last night's ftrst period with his 14th goal of the year. 
But as was the story in all four of these games against the Badgers, they struck right back. Irish defenseman Scott Cameron got caught up ice as Les Grauer skated right around him at his own blueline and raced down ice. ] ohn Cox was the only defenseman back for the Irish, and after · skating around him, Grauer had Irish goaltender Dave Laurion at his mercy, and beat him at 6:04. 
Ted Weltzin closed out the scoring for Notre Dame at 
12:14 and gave the Irish a 2-1 advantage after one period. 
Those 20 minutes marked the only time the Irish outplayed the Badgers. They stuck it right back to Notre Dame with three goals in the second period, two of them by Rod Romanchuk and one more in the third by Scott Lecy. 
Despite not scoring in the ftnal 20 minutes, Notre Dame sent 15 shots on goal on Badger goalie ] ulian Baretta, but Baretta played outstandingly and stopped them all. Two of them were acrobatic stick saves on Irish wing Greg Meredith. 
Laurion ftnished the game with 30 saves, while Baretta stopped 28. 
Now with their season com­pleted, all the Irish can do is look forward to next year. They will have plenty of time to do it with their week-long stay in Madison now ended, and a ftve-hour bus trip to bring them back to South Bend. They are expected to return at about three o'clock. 
In other WCHA playoff action, North Dakota and Minnesota assured themselves of the top two spots in the second round with victories last night. North Dakota defeated Colorado, 7-3, for a 13-6 total­goals advantage for the series, while Minnesota downed Mich­
[continued on page lOJ 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) -Purdue's ftrst-round Nauonal Invtational Tourna­ment battle against Central· Michigan Thursday is being treated as a "pressure-free experience," said the coach. 
"It has been a ~ruellins, pressure-packe~ year m the Btg Ten and these kids came out on top. Their accomplishments stand alone; they've already done their job. So we're entering this with the idea of enjoying it with~~t a~ding any more pressure, srud Coach Lee Rose, completing his ftrst season at Purdue. 
Purdue, a Big Ten co-cham­pion expected to ftnish near the bottom of the conference stand­ings at the start of the 1978-79 college basketball season, takes a 23-7 record into the game and ftgures to have an edge over the Mid-American Conference runner-up. 
The Boilermakers have lost only 2 5 games on their home court at Mackey Arena in 12 years. And only 10 of those losses have come in non-con­ference games. 
Central Michigan, defeated 72-65 by Toledo in the Mid­American Conference playoff Tuesday, is 19-8. 
Central coach Dick Parfttt said he wasn't sure how he'd get his team ready for the game. 
"This is a situation we've never been in before," Parfttt said. "We're coming off a very 
Irish women gymnasts score impressive second 
by Bnan McLaughlin Observer Correspondent 
The women's half of the Notre Dame Gymnastic team opened its second season last week with an impressive second-place finish in a meet·at Western Michigan University. The Irish went into the meet looking stunning in their new leotards, and came out looking even more stunning with a team roal of 55.70 points. The high-scorer of the team was Treci Keating who received a well-earned all-around score of 20.30. 
The first event of the meet was vaulting. Jody "Imp" Didonato executed a near­perfect horizontal squat, drop­ping only .85. point.s to receive a 6-.16 score. Keattng followed, dropping only 1.2 to receive a score of 4.80. 
In the uneven bars, Keating scored a 4. 24, followed by Joan Jacobsen who scored a 3.20. This was excellent, considering that the bars in the ' 'Rock' ' , where the team practices, are broken. 
Jacobsen, the team captain and club president, started off the balance beam competition by scoring a 4.15. Next up was Lori Nolan, who scored 3.25. She was followed by Sue Malloy who, dismounting with a front flip, half-twist, scored 4.00. Keating then did a very solid routine to earn a 5.95. 
The ftnal event was floor­exercise. Lori Nolan led the team in this event with a score of 5.30. Also scoring 5,30, was Keating. Didonato scored 4.70 with a cute routine. Donna Finney scored 4.65 to make floor-exercise the team's strongest event. 
This performance was due to the dedication of these women who practice everyday for two hours in the "Rock" under the guidance of Coach Mark Woodford. Their next meet is April 7 against Purdue and Indiana, at Purdue, in which the men's half of the team will also be competing. 
In East Regional 

Experience key for Duke 
All right, enough is enough. 
First, the regular season. Duke and North 
Carolina tied for the Atlantic Coast Conference 
championship. Next, the ACC post-season 
tournament. Both teams advanced to the 
championship game; Duke by a pair of victories, 
North Carolina on a bye. The TarHeelswon the 
title, 71-63, avenging a 47-40 loss to Duke barely 
a week earlier. 

And now, the East Regional of the NCAA 
tournament, and both Duke and North Carolina 
will be there. We've heard time and time again 
how great the basketball is in the ACC, but 
doggone it, only one of you is going to the Final 
Four. 

Each team knows that it can beat the other 
after the regular season and ACC tournament. 
Duke rates the edge in experience, having been 
to the Final Four with the same ftve starters it 
now employs. But going hand-in-hand with that 
is the pressure of being the pre-season number 
one pick in the nation. 

The Tar Heels can counter with the coaching savvy of Dean Smith, who led North Carolina to a 23-5 record despite losing All-America guard Phil Ford and his running mate in the backcourt--Mike Zaliagiris. 
There exists the possibility that one or both of the ACC giants could get knocked off in the second round, after sitting out the ftrst round with byes. The likelihood would be even greater ifthere were a team of even respectable quality in the East. 
Only Syracuse has even a ghost of a chance of pulling off a surprise. But the Orangemen, like most teams in the East, play a suspect schedule. The fact that the Eastern teams are only playing each other has a lot to do with that. 
The other non-descripts include Georgetown St. John's, featuring former Notre Dame guard Bernard Rencher, Rutgers and Iona. An all-star team made up of the other eight teams probably 

Craig 
Chval 
couldn't gtve Duke or North Carolina a good 
game. 

On paper, Duke has a clear-cut edge. The 
Blue Devils boast two UPI ftrst-team All­
Americans in center Mike Gminski and guard 
Jim Spanarkel. In the front court, sophomores 
Gene Banks and Kenny Dennard complement 
each other superbly. Banks, the explosive 
scoring threat and Dennard, the scrapper. 
Transfers Bob Bender and John Harrell spht the 
playmaker's role; both are more than capable. 
North Carolina, on the other hand, doesn't 
boast the houshold names. Junior forward Mike 
O'Koren received various All-American men­
tions and is the standard of comparison for an 
all-around player in the ACC. Sophomore 
forward AlWood is a radar-like shooter. Former 
Indiana -"Mr. Basketball," Bobby Colescott, 
tries to ftll Ford's point guard spot. Smith will 
also rely on 6-9 Mike Yonakur and 6-11 Jeff Wolf 
in the pivot position. 
Normally; drawing a bye to the championship 
game of the ACC tournament is welcome. But 
for the Tar Heels, it might not have been to their 
advantage. They only played once in the 
pressure-packed, no-tomorrow tournament, and 
with an NCAA bid all but assured, even that 
game wasn't a must win. 
The lack of experience under ftre may haunt 
North Carolina, especially at guard, where 
Colescott saw minimal action his ftrst two years 
behind Ford. He's running the show now, and 
there's no margin for error. 
The Blue Devils have been there, and chances , are they'll be there again. 




