1H' Botnb -page '4 
r----------------------­
VOLYME XIV, NO. 17 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESD~Y, SEPTEMBER 19, 1979 

University announces new security chief 
The appointment of Glenn L. evaluation procedure for the 
Terry as Director of Security new director, expressed 
was announced at a press ''appreciation for the work Wall 
conference in the CCE yester­has done--he has initiated a 
day afternoon. Terry stated very positive process and we 
that he will approach his job are sorry to see him leave. Yet ·from the perspective that secur­we are equally pleased with Mr. ity is really a service. "My Terry and the emphasis of future at Notre Dame "depends security as a service to the on how well I'm accepted," he Notre Dame community." said. Terry explained that his im­
Terry, chief of the Services mediate plans are to familiarize 
Division of the South Bend himself with the security opera­
Police Department since 1976, tions on campus, and "listen to 
assumed the position of Notre what Dean Roemer has to say.'' 
Dame Security Director Sep­The objective to continue and 
tember 18. In the Service improve "the utilization of stu­
Division Terry's primary re­dents in the security process," 
spon~ibilities_ entailed data pro­was also one of the new 
cessing, cnme prevention, director's aims. In an effort to 
records, budget planning, and confirm the notion of security as 
research, and the armory. a service Terry commented, 
From 1972 to 1976 Terry ''there will be problems ifI am 
functioned in the capacity of not responsive to what the 
detective seq~eant in burglary students' needs are. I hope to 
and robbery mvestigation. He make the students' stay at 
served 28 years with the South Notre Dame enjoyable and se­
Congress reaches compromise
Bend police force. cure.'' The selection of Terry set a According to Dean of Stu­precedent in that it was the first 
on Carter gas -rationing plan
dentsJames A. Roemer, Terry time that student participation
would be given ample time to had been actively so1.1ght in the WASHINGTON (AP) they thought they could win crack at the proposal and then 
conclude his remaining duties selection of a security director. House-Senate negotiators final aporoval in their respec--could block It with a veto by
with the Police Department. Student Government presi­reached agreement yesterday rive chambers of the measure. either house. 
Terry replaces former dir­dent Bill Roche and vice presi­night on a compromise formula An administration official Before. rationing could be 
ector Joseph Wall who will dent Bill Vita took part in the to give the president authority attending the session said the imposed, the nation's gasoline 
assume a position as director of process of selecting Terry, to ration gasoline during a White House could accept the or diesel fuel supply would have 
security, safety, and transpor-. although they did not assist m severe shortage. bompromise. to drop 20 percent. Under the 
ration at Michael Reese Hospi­making the final decision. Under the agreement, Con-·,House conferees abandoned compromise, the presid<;nt
tal in Chicago. Roche considered this partici­gress would have two shots at their earlier insistance that the could ask Congress to wruve 
pation as an important, pio­rejecting a rationing plan · first president be given a free hand this 20-percent limit. 
Wall informed reporters that 
neering step in student govern­when the president proposes it 10 drafting details of the ration-Rep. Clarence Brown,
he will work closely with Terry 
ment at Notre Dame. In and then again when he ing pr(),gram. R-Ohw, who led the House
for the next two weeks and 
addition, Vita emphasized that attempts to invoke it. The CRnference committee, GOP team, immediately de­
assist him during the hectic 
"student government has been The compromise came on the named t~. resolve House and nounced the compromise as
MSU football weekend. Terry 
pushing the positive aspects of sixth day of negotiations-and Senate dif(erences, voted to "the worst of both" House and
congratulated Wall on the 
security,'' and noted that Notre broke a stalemate over the giye Con!Ves_s the power_ ~o Senate bills. But a majority of
''good organizational wor~'' 
Dame security made 2,600 hos­degree of congressional in-reJect a ratibpmg plan once 1t 1s conferees said they would agree 
accomplished in the secunty 
pital runs last year, an indica­volvement in the rationing pro-submitted by the president. to support the compromise as
department under Wall's direc­
tion of security's positive, vital cess. However, s~¥=h a rejection the best that could be negotiat­
tion this past year. · 
service to the Notre Dame House and Senate leaders of could be vetoed-by the presi-ed.
Student Body President Bill 
community. the conference committee said dent, requiring ~oth houses of The president has said he
Roche, a participant in the Congress to ovet.tide the veto does not intend to invoke by a two-thirds vote in order to rationing, but wants the power block a rationing plan. to do so in an emergency and 
HPC condemns t,;cket pol,;C'"' att~~c;tst~~ f~~~~~n~aci~~~~ rea:isl~fo~ ast~~;b~ar~at~<;nti~ 
~ ~ .jr~C~o~n~g;r;e~ss~w~o~u~ld~g~e~t~a~s=ec=o=n=d====o=v=e=ra=l=l=e=n=e=r=g=y=p=r=o=g=r=am==.===== 
NRC reports loss
by Azleen Lavin immensely, while it will barely alter the alumni's 
StaffReporter chances. 
We hope that the administration will sympa­
o.f weapon -grade uranium
A letter condemning present distribution of thize with our cause and give us the same chance 
away foo~ball tickets was sent to both Mike for away tickets as alumni." 
ERWIN, Tenn. (AP) -The error at the\plant, located in
Bus1ck, T1cket Manager, and the Observer in a All members of the HPC signed the letter that 
Nuclear Regulatory Commis­this remote mountain town near
united action of the HPC at last night's meeting. was written in response to student displeasure 
sion ordered an immediate the Tennessee-North Carolina
It;t other action the HPC met with outgoing with the amount of tickets allotted to them for 
shutdown yesterday of an border.
d~rector ofSecurityJoe Wall as well as incoming the Michigan game. Only sixty tickets, or one 
director Glenn Terry to discuss relationships perc~nt of the total, were made available to William Dircks, director of
between security and students. students. the NRC's nuclear materials
appa_rent loss of weapons-grade
The letter stated: "We, the student body of The HPC met for most of the night with safeguards office, said the plant 
uranmm.
Notre Dame, are dissatisfied with the present outgoing Security director Joe Wall and new will likely be shut down for at
Frank Gillespie of the NRC's 
contributing alumni ftrst with lefto'*rs going to relationship between Security and students by supervision.
This ticket policy is an outrageous i~tjustice to than an enforcement agency which is more 
Frank Ingram, a spokesman nuclear weapon, but the actual
the Notre Dame student body. By depriving negative," Wall said. He continued by citing 
for the NRC in Washington, amount necessary depends on
students of student tickets the administration is the services which are offered to students and 
enriched'' uranium. He con­Nuclear Fuel Services at the
representative of the whole student body, is campus at night. Wall encouraged students to 
firmed, however, that officials company's Rockville, Md.,
calling for a new ticket policy. We propose that take advantage of this service. 
have not ruled out theft of the headquarters, said only that the 
10 percent of all away tickets be sold to the Security is also involved in driving students to 




News in brief 
Wednesday, September 19, 1979 -page 2 
Openings av.r.ilable 
Tornado roars through 
Many seniors Cance~ trip plans 
by Laura Vasquez ance. 
26, flights will depart from
Houston, causes damage 
The six flights will leave from Acapulco and st•Jdents will beMany Seniors who signed up O'Hare airport in Chicago on back on campus before mid­HOUSTON (AP) -A destructive tornado roared through a fqr the senior class trip to October 21 , the Sunday after night, in time for the Southplush, heavily populated section of west Houston yesterday Acapulco, Mexico during the Southern Cal football game, Carolina game that Saturday.
afternoon causing heavy damage to at least 20 homes but no October break h<lve cancelled and arrive in Acapulco that Barfuss also emphasized thatserious injuries. Day-long rains and heavy rush-hour traffic their reservations this past afternoon, according to the senior class was not making complicated relief efforts in the area where the tornado 
Monday and Tuesday, said 
Barfuss. The six fli~hts will any profit on this trip. "Thetouched shortly before 5 p.m. Houston police reported stre~t representatives from both leave from O'Hare atrport in senior dass is sponsoring theflooding in the surrounding areas and power llnes down tn schools. 
Chicago on October 21 , the trip and it is purely a breaktht· water. There are no reports of serious injuries, only As of last night, 95 Notre Sunday after the Southern Cal even operation. A firm priceminor cuts and bruises, a Red Cross spokesman said. 
Dame and Saint Mary's stu­football game, and arrive in' wasn't quoted until last weekHowever, three ambulances were standing by, and two 
dents have cancelled. The 
Acapulco that afternoon, ac­when all prices were definite.
disaster vans were sent to the area, where Red Cross workers 
maximum number of students 
cording to Barfuss. The stu­Our price is based on a price were setting up shelters for the homeless. 
able to go on the trip is 580, 
dents will be housed in a quote from a travel agency in 
according to Andy Barfuss, one 
condominium complex in four Chicago," Barfuss said. This 
of the four seniors selected to 
person apartments, each of same company handled theorganize the trip. 
which has a living room, dining senior class trips foe the past 
l~arfuss cites two reasons room, kitchen, two bedrooms, two years. why students have cancelled and a balcony overlooking The last day for students to out on a $316 trip to Acapulco Acapulco Bay. make reservations and pay their 
Gold soars to record high 
of $3 76 an ounce 
which included the round-trip The trip is not structured. All balance is Thursday, Septem­air fare, and six days and 5 activities will be left to the ber 20. Barfuss suggested thatNEW YORK (AP)-The price of gold in Europe soared by a nights in a condominium com­individuals' discretion. The students also write clown therecord $20 an ounce yesterday to a new world high of $373 · plex overlooking Acapulco Bay. only planned activity will be a people with whom they wish to a mark that quickly fell when it closed at $376 an ounce hours ''A lot of people have to take beach party. room and hand their requests inlater in New York. The latest gold rush has seen the price of graduate school admissions On Friday afternoon, October at this time. 
an ounce soar more than $50 in the past 12 months. T"'elve 
tests the day after we come 
years agu, gold sold for $35 an ounce. 
back. They were afraid they
Exp(·rfs attribute the boom to worries over inflation. Gold is 
would be too exhausted to do 
a 1' :•dit iona I refuge for investors worried that the currency 
. HPC

well if they went on the trip. 
1hn· are holding will shrink in value or that their other 
Other people thought they
111\'t'siOr:-. will suffer because of adverse economic conditions. 
[continued from pageI] Wall cited some of Security's
could afford it when they made 
plans to aid in establishing a
their reservations last spring, 
and from St. Joseph's Hospital. 

better rapport with students.
then realiz ...d thq rnuldn' t after 
However, Wall said he hoped He plans to have studentsall."

Miami votes toda_y on 
the Infirmary would be able to workmg the gates instead of

Julie Essig, Saint Mary's 
take over this responsibility in limiting this to Security officials 

representative, in giving addi­
the future because "this leaves and have students acting as

tional reasons explained, "On 
us vulnerable with our car escorts for other students.

mistaken tax proposal 
the first night for cancellations, 
being off campus.'' Last year Security would like to extend

20 people of approximately 200 
Security made approximately student involvement further by

reservations, cancelled out.
MIA..MI (AP) . A proposal for a drastic r:1x _cut that would 2,600 runs to and from St. 
having students trained to give
Money was one of the main
n·duu: the taxes on a typical home to the pncc:: of a cup of 
Joseph's. 

first-atd assistance here on
reasons. Many students just
coffee goes to voters for res~l1;1tion today in D~de County. 
Patroling student parking campus.

didn't earn as much during the
Voters in Miami, 26 other cmes and large unmcorpora~ed 
lots, jump-startin~ cars in the areas will decide whether to slash county property tax ~tlls 
summer as they had expected Finally, Wall sees the need
winter, .and provtding shovels 

to. Also, many of the seniors for bener lighting on campus99.) percent. or from several hundred dollars on a typ~cal to dig cars out of the snow are 
wanted to vistt grad schools and increased student involve­horne to a few rents. The proposal has touched off a polltlcal also responsibilities assumed 
during their break.'' ment in reporting incidentslurl•r and "scare" ads in newspapers. And it is all the result 
by Security. Security patrols,JJ a mistake. Harry Wilson, the man who s~a.rred the fwor, 
Last spring, juniors wishing which concern Security.
will turn out lights left on in 

to go on the trip J?aid a $50 Jim Jones, InPIRG represen­cn/1. -cted 15,000 signatures last fall on a petitton he thought 
cars, lock doors, and take anyw,n·ld trim county property taxes 50. percent. Bu;, the 
deposit. This depostt is return­tative, also met with the HPC to
keys left inside the cars to help

ed to those people who have propose a joint project betweenp<tition said "four mtlls" where Wilson meant four students and staff. Security
cancelled. On InPIRG and the Council for:ollu~ " The result was a potential cut of 99.5 percent will leave notes inside the cars 
Wednesday and Thursday, stu­campus recycling. A committee :", ·:1d of '>0 percent in countywide taxes. 
which they have entered to 

dents wishing to make reserva­is being formed to· work out
inform the owner of the service 

-
tio~ay signup, and every­details.
-

performed.
' 

one else must pay their bal-
WITH REGRETS!! ! 
The Observer
St.nrw' •iay. High in the low 70s. Fair tonight. Low in the 
Due· to construction and other conflicts in 
mid tt• tmper 40s. Increasing cloudiness tomorrow. Highs in 
Night Editor: Margaret 
Washington Hall, we regret to announce
•'w rnid 70s. 
Kruse 
Asst. Night Editors: Ann 
the cancellation of the Thursday night 
·----·---------------------t 
Monaghan, Suzy Marshall 
Copy Editor: John McGrath 
Film Series. Season TK:ket Holders will be 
Layout Staff Dave Thomas, 
refunded fully by presenting their tickets to
Dave "Birdman" LaBerge, 
Bruce Oakley, Ryan "no 
the Educational Media Office 
doz'' Ver Berkmoes 
Educational Technology Services -Call 6423
News Editor: Mike Shields 
Features Layout: Bruce
1: 1~ }'•' ;T:vtlN AR "regulations of cell permissiveness to vit,1i inf,Ttivn," dr. fay righthand, wayne state, GALVIN 
Oakley ·\l.'f":\ 
Sports Layout: John Smith typists: Zelda Ray Shea, Mich Santello, Kathy
..J prn : · '' ',t)t-•LIJUM "recent development in non-equili­

LAST CHANCE
Murray, Ann Mon<Jghan
hr. !l sta:-;r. ·" J mechanics,'' dr robert dorfman, u. of m., ·:.,,,d I,·. ~dt--:UWLAND 
EMT: Kim Convey 
audlo visual equipment 
ND Day Editor: Keith 
Melaragno 
bulb close out sale
. · :~G danforth scholarship, 118 O'SHAG 
SM_C Day Editor: Kathy 
Df)manico



'. k hr M "the battle of algiers," WASHINGTON 
Ad Design: ? ? , and they
'J.\LL 
forgot the classifieds! 
Photographer: Mike Bigley 
6 50 II pm l'JL,, "blue collar," ENGR. AUD. 
Guest Appearances: Scoop, 
Ryan, and Mark "Never
l>: ;,· !\H: E' , , ,....., ,,. ampus council, LAFORTUNE 
Sleeps" Rust 
, mg club. 204 O'SHAG 
The Obsernr !USPS ·591 920) is ·' ·Ill L•·CTl;J(, :t·,, (· -hurtle: past, present & furure," 
.I 

published Monday through FridJy ex­cept during exam and vacatiDn periods.
It ,J. · :·..... . ~HAYES-HEALY 
The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame llld Slint 
_.m :-:;_ j1m kill)'. kinetic wood 
Mary s College. Subscriptiefts lillY Ill 

THEATRE
-j . J j ~

I 

purchlsed tor S20 per yur IS1D per sellliStlr)lrom The Observer, P.O. box Q. Notr1D1me. lndilnl 46556. Second
1

I I 1 j F,__ ' + 
clan =e paid. Notre Dime, ln-
I 
dllnl . 
I:. 

Tne Observer is 1 memblr of the AssociatiCI Pms. All l'lprlductioftI rights 11'1 reserved.
L... 
I I,· 
• 

The Observer Wednesday, September 19, 1979 -page 3 
Four Horsemen Hilton 
Planning Cotnmission tables hotel plans 
. byJolm McGrath Senior StaffReporter 
The St. Joseph County Area Plan Commission tabled action last night on plans to build a Hilton Hotel on a tract of land near the Notre Dame campus .. 
The proposal, submitted by a development group headed by Ray M1ller of Columbus, Ohio, calls for the construction of a 10-story Hilton Hotel on a 4A acre site along the west side of South Bend A venue near the intersection with Edison Road. 
According to presented specifications last night, the hotel will have 200 rooms on the second through ninth floors. The ftrst floor will house a coffee shop, rece~;>tion area, lounges and meetmg rooms, while the tenth floor of the structure will be occupied by a rooftop restaurant. The plans also called for an indoor swim­ming pool. 
The proposed hotel has tenta­tively been named The Inn of The Four Horsemen, in refer­ence to Notre Dame's famous football backfield. The site is 
near the outer perimeter of the Notre Dame campus, and plans call for the structure to face and overlook the main part of the · campus. All ten stories of the building will be sheathed in 
bronze reflector glass. 
The developers are seeking 
to have the tract rezoned from 
business and residential use to 
commercial zoning. The com­
mission, which had earlier fail­
ed to come to a decision on the 
rezoning of the former Bendix 
Mansion for use as a retirement 
apartment complex, balked on 
the issue after learning that 
some of the original specifica­
tions of the hotel had been 
altered. 

Richard Johnsoo, commis­
sion executive directo)", recom­
mended that the group table 
the motion to accept the plans 
after Charles Sweeney, attor­
ney for the Miller group, 
announced that the structure's 
height had been changed from 
nine to teo floors, and its 
capacity from 175 to 200 rooms. 
''I am not going to be put in 
the position of makin~ a profes­
sional recommeodatwn with 
SMC appoints three new 

department 
by Mary Leavitt 
Saint Mary's has announced the appointments of three new academic departmental chair­men, Elisabeth Noel as English chairman, Claude Renshaw as chairman of the business ad­ministration and economics department, and Isis Quinteros as new modern languages head. 
Noel replaces Sister Eva Hooker in the English depart­ment. Sister Hooker has taken an administrative fellowshiJ;> at Mount Holyoke College m Massachusetts. Noel says, "I hope we'll have a good year, working happily together as teachers and students of litera­
ture  and  dedicated  to  the  
humanities  and  to  liberal  
education.''  


chairmen 
As new chairman of the business administration de­partment, Renshaw's main ob­Jectives are to maintain the high quality of the business program and to recruit new professors into the department so that business courses can be made available to those who are not majoring in business. He adds, ''I feel that I have an obligation not only to business students but also to all students who are interested in business." 
Quinteros, the new modern languages chairman, has been a faculty member of Saint . Mary's for 13 years. She feels this experience and her fellow . 1 faculty members will help her in resolvin~ conflicts this year, and she enJoys the combination of administrative duties and teaching. 
Wednesday. Sept. 19, 1979 7pm-3am 

Play the ·Ponies 
3 Miller lite Ponies
========:::::i 

thursda_v nite special 
16oz BUSCH TALL BOYS 
7pm -l()pm _21$1.00 10pm-3am $. 75 
• 

(/) 
c 
~ 
::J:~ 
-
0 I» -t•..
mz 
c:Dzo .. 
. .... 
c-:r; -"
• 
Z3: 
-0 
•
~:r;
zc; = ..... 
~)> 
,.z J-
a> 
a> 
0 •" 
-• 
i.I 
:i: 
.,i 
\.: 
i 
l 
l 

1 
~ 
-~ 

1
,
, 
' 1 ~ 
1 
1, 
1 

( 
•·
{' J ' ' 
• 

The Observer 
-




InPIRG announces plans 
by Tn'cia Beaujean 

'The Notre Dame chapter of the Indiana Public Interest Re­search Group (InPIRG) has announced their plans for the upcoming year. 
The organization's objective is to involve students in issues of general public interest. Two projects were discussed: the advent of an aluminum and paper recycling program here on campus and a bookstore survey. 
The bookstore survey, ac­cording to InPIRG Stud~nt Director Jim Jones, is to com­pare textbook prices at the Hammes Bookstore with those in both university and non-uni­versity bookstores. 
InPIRG will be .working with Student Government personnel on this resee.rch project. Their goal will be to collect sufficient data before next semester to allow them to make objective recommendations to the stu­dents and the bookstore on the purchase of textbooks. 
Seven years ago, Public In­terest Research Groups were inspired by consumer advocate 
~···············~·+••··············
! . AIAAPRESENTS : * The US Space Shuttle Prof!rarrz presented : * ~ hr 11. Col. fohn m. Fabian ~ ~ Space Shuttle Astmnaut Candidate ! 
* * 
:Mission Specialist Ued. Scbt.Sept. 19,1979! ! 7:30pm I-lavec-J-Teah Aud. rm 122 ! 
lt * 
~~············~··~~················~ 
... 
THIS 
COULD BE YOUR LUCKY DAY 

An A1r Force ROTC: scholarsh1p can mean a lot when you need help wtth college finances h pays tullion. bOoks and lab fees and gives you $100 a month Jor other college costs. This could be just what you need to permit you to fine·tune your concentration on your studies. II could mean the difference between not r!akmg il al all, and go1ng out on your own w1th a good, solid college degree. 
The Air Force Is a great way to be on your own. As a commissioned officer, you11 have re:;pons1biltty wllh your very first job. You'll find an atmosphere of dedication. trust. and reliance. and you'll jump right in· to managing people and expensive resources. You11 have an excellent starting salarv -good fmancial security. · 
h can all start with a decision to check out AFROTC. Find out how you can get a scholarship. See what we offer, then. show us wh~ can offer ......etum. It iu•t miaht 'be <u&r lucky ~J· tool ....,.._ ­
AFROTC DET 22'5 
Univ. of Notre Dame 
Captain Davis (219) 283-6634 


Ralph Nader in universities in Oregon and Minnesota, ] ones said. 
An attempt to reorganize the group formed at Notre Dame in 1976 was a "direct result of a speech that Ralph .Nader gave last semester," said Dan ­
Smith, a former organizer of 
InPIRG. 
"InPIRG had a g~oup on 
campus three years ago, bur the 
University cut the program 
because of funding and organi­
zational problems." 
Jim Jones . commented that 
last year the group was mainly 
involved in organization. Be­
cause funding had been a 
problem in the past, a petition 
was begun last year to attain a 
mandatory refundable two dol­
lars from each student to sup­
port InPIRG. · The attempt 
failed even though it contained 
a refundable opnon. · 
Instead, an alternative was proposed to place a card in l:'ach student's registration packet requesting a 'two dollar dona­tion to lnPIRG. 
Due to administrative error, the cards were never printed, Jones remarke-d. • 
The student,advocacy groupo on campus is composed of approximately 20 core members Jones said. "Hoptflllly, we are establishing a base on which we and others will later build." 
He cited Nader's philosophy that students do not use re­search skills that they learn in the classroom in l'ractical situa­tions. Organrzations like InPIRG allow students to use tpeir skills and apply their efforts toward community ser­vice, Jones added. 
Other projects will be decid­ed upon by the members at future meetings, Jones said. 
Writer ·speaks tonight 
Michael Harr:ngron, Chair of been an advocate of liberal and the De'mocratic Socialist Organ­trade union causes, serving as a izing Committee w!ll speak on member of Martin Luther '~Justice and the American King's advisory council, and as Econ0my," toda)' at 8:p p.m. a member of Lyndon Johnson's in' the library auditorium. The War on Poverty. talk, sponsored by the Depart­A native of New York, ment of Economics, is part of Harrington is regarded as one the New Directions Series. of the country's leading social­
Harrington has authored sev­ists. He is a major backer of the eral books including The Other Democratic Agenda, a socialist America, Socialism, The Twi­movement that demand~ equal light of Capitalism, and Tht> economic opportunity for all Vast Majority: AJourney to the citizens and increasing social World's Poor. He has long priorities in government policy 
• • • Hotel 
[continued/rom page 3] ed to give the hotel's devel­
opers approval for industrial an advisory group whiCh makes bond financins until the Area recommendations to both the Plan CommissiOn made a deci­South Bend City and St. Joseph sion on the matter. Last night's · County planning boards. The action effectively stalls action South Bend Economic Develop­on the proposal until the plan ment Commission earlier refus-commission's October meeting. 
Blown out of proportion 

'H '~bomb plans raise controversy 
by Louis Breaux bomb. 
''The letter does not cause 
The failure of the federal any troubles as far as increas­government' to halt the publi­ing a country's nuclear ca­cation of a letter containing pabilities, but I am concerned secrets to the hydrogen bomb with the letter as a prece­has unleashed a wave of con­dent for further challenges to cern over who now has the government security. It is, 
. capability to make such a no doubt, a technical violation
Gateway to a great way of life. 
of governmerlt regulations,'' 
says Professor Paul Kenney of the Notre Dame Physics Department. 

Kenney believes that the ar­ticle does not contain enough

An Tostal 
technical information for the construction of an H-bomb. ''The technology is easier s~id than done. The letter contams
·Applications are available for Executive 
many important fai:rs, but 1 don't think it will lead to b 
raei twmbin~ rth' Arabs or ~omet:;in~ .;1 tha· •Luur. ·· K ·nnr:' h1rrl,._, ,;tme(1 tbar .·, ~~.~~:~ /--~·~ r:·._ -~ h -'-[·· 
Staff P.ositi9ns in the following areas: 
Vice-Chairmen(2} 
,·;p.:bt 11' -• ~-i·L·d~-~ j·.r_: : i.h·V'!. 
I ~ ' ' •. I j : ' 
, 
~·I. 
J.
'I 
.I 


-,. ',. ~ ' 
Mobilizai.iC ~ 1 Chairman 
1i· i'~dn1.·-•. 
.. iniP;·mait(,r t• an: 

Spec:al "E1ents ·chairman Keeper of the Zot, 
with knowledge on the sub­ject," Kenney said. 
The information should not pose a threat even if it were available to terrorists. "The bomb is too complicated to be made by an individual. With a group, you are assuming that they already have an A-bomb --which they must rho .produce an H-bomb. We would be in grave danger if a terrorist group possessed an A-bomb," Kenney remar­ked. 
· ''I am more concerned about 
the direction the article will 
take lr has rhe potential 
to lead to a breakdown in 
gov~rnment securitv.' · Kenne• 
said. "lr i~ infnrmt·inn P!;-,,.:. 
th,-·publi· pr'-vwL:-;)~ ~(·n·­
der· 'I: n.· , -"~1~ 
If' l~--!;' -• • -;:,_, 
k1n.:~ o·r :.~ 1. 1.i :1--:--(· ~ ··­
. 1arri-·• 
ijt• 
:·: 
Commissioner of Basketball 

need print!Dg ina hurry?
If questions call, _fohn Callaway -28 7-4635 An Tostal Chairman 
100 -11 x 17 posters only $10.00 
• Pick up application _from S. U. secretar_y in l.o:fortune 
203 N. Main South Bend 289-6977 
e Deadline for application is 5pm Monda_y, Sept. 24 
the wiz of theprintingbiz! 
•.~.~......................iiiiii;i~._...................._.,•.•.•.••••.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•••·.~-~.~.~., .••t.•.-.-.-.-.-.-.~.•.-.-.-.-.-.-•.--.-.-.-.-.-.•-..--------------------------~ 
......................... ••• I .._ • • 7 t • ._. • • • • • • • • • • • • ..-• •
•• ' -•••• t •••••••••~.·.-.,.-. ~~-·.· ·.·1·4·.·.··,... ···~. .. ..••• ,. -................ ····~ .............. 
•••• -..... 11 

• • ,. ........~·....... • .•'\.. -. •. • ~ ... ~ • .. ·-. • •• ' ....... "' ... -• • • t • • • .. • & -' • ... • • • • • • -• ­
--------~----------­
~--------­
The Observer Wednesday, September 19, 1979 ~page 5 
r:;;;~;;;ro;·---·-; 
... 'H'-bomb 
[continued from page 4] pressure mcrease even more The uranium used in a nu­
and neutrons begin to strike clear plant is in large enough pons in the world could be the shell of uranium-238. Fis­amounts to run the plant, but worsened. "There are alrea­sion of the shell occurs and not in quantities large enough 
II K~~~~~9 8:00PmII 
dy too many weapons of this this yields 60 percent of the for use is weaponry. The 
type in the world. Person­ally, I would like to see the · number reduced to zero. The article will definitely not have the effect of decreasing the 
number of arms in the world. The article may even have the effect of increasing the number of weapons stored in arsenals," he observed. 
''There is no great threat of anyone building an H-bomb from the information in the article. The information should probably have been declassi­fied earlier, since it obvious­ly was available to the wri­ters from some public source,'' Kenney said. 
Two publications, The Pro­gressive and The Dazly Cali­farman, were stopped last week in an effort to publish the H-bomb information. The Daily Calzfornzan is a student-run newspaper for the University of California at Berkeley. The article was entitled ''The H­bomb Secret --How We Got It, Why We're Telling It," and was written by Howard Morland. The government feared that the publication of the article would violate the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 revealing H-bomb secrets. The Act prescribes penalties for those who communicate or pos­sess ''restricted data.'' The data is defined as anything of the "design, manufacture, or utilization of atomic wea­pons." The government's ef­forts to stop the publication of the article failed when a newspaper, The Madison Free Connection, published a letter, releasing the information. The Chicago Tn'bune published the same letter --written by Charles Hanson --yesterday. 
The mechanism of the H­bomb is very complex and re­quires precise timing. The system can be divided into a number of steps which trig­ger further steps. 
The first step is the deto­nation of high explosives. The explosive forces are aligned so that they are directed in­wardly towards a fission core. The core contains materials such as Uranium-235 and plu­tonium-239. The fission core is reduced to one-third of its original size. This step is known as "implosion." 
During the implosion an ini­tial burst of neutrons is fired to begin the fission of the uranium-235 and plutonium­
239. A uranium-238 shell surrounds the assembly. 
The temperature and pressure increase to ·incredible propor­tions as the released neutrons collide with lithium nuclei, also in the· core. The lithium breaks down into helium and tritium. The helium and tri­tium undergo fusion --the union of atomic nuclei --cre­ating lithium-6 deuteride and, most importantly, more neu­trons. 
Following this the heat and 

op€n 
mon-sat '2pm-3am 

seat PURbU€ 

explosive force. 
largest portion of usable ma­The whole procedure de­terials from a plant is in the 
lthuRsbay, Sept. 20 S:OOpml
scribed occurs within a few nuclear wastes and by-prod­millionths of a second. Each ucts. These are virtually non­
I \.aj:ontune Ballnoom 1
stage leads to the other and recoverable. "We could give each increases the intensity the Arabs, Israelis, and any­of the other. The timing of one all the nuclear waste they 
ITickets go on Sale I
the device must also be pre­want to fool around with and cise or else the bomb would all they would get would be fizzle out. The dimensions radiation sickness. Even if 
I Fri. Sept. 21 I 
of the bomb are 18 inches they could recover something in diameter by 4 feet in length. it is a long way from the 
I 9:00am su t1ck€t o~~IC€ 1
The availability of plutonium H-bomb," Kenney said. -239 and uranium-235 is very Kenney teaches a course -­restricted. Plutonium does Energy and Society --that is 1 $s.5o&.$7.5o 1 
not naturally occur and must open to all non-science and be produced. Uranium-235 some science majors. The I 11m1t 1otlck€ts p€n p€nson 1 
is found in 1 part to 140 parts course will study this problem of ordinary uranium. It takes and many other problems in sophisticated equipment and a energy that face today's so­
I also <Wa~I3,Bt€ at ace 9:oo:5:00 I 
large-scale operation to pro­ciety. The course is held duce large amounts of it. in the spring semester. 

'----------------~ 
NAVYOFFICER. YOU Gn RESPONSIBILITY THE MOMENT .YOU GRTHE STRIPES. 
A lot of big corporations offer you a big toll free 800-342-5855.) Early responsibility. title. But how many offer a young college It's what being a Navy Officer is all about. graduate a really important job? 
I

r NA~~P~RT~~------s-;:1
As a Navy Officer, you don't have 
INFORMATION CENTER 
I

to wait to do a job that counts. We give 
P.O. Box 2000, Pelham Manor, N.Y. 10803 
you one as soon as you've earned your I 
D Send me information on Career Opportunities 1
commission. A job with responsibility for 
in the Navy (¢G). I 
thelives of others, and for millions of dollars 
I

D Call me at._--:-:--=-::-:--------­
of complex equipment. A job that requires (Area Code) 
I 

skillandleadership. A job thatNavy Officers NAME'-----=~---=~~~--~~--­
I

First (Please Print) Last
have been doing proudly for 200 years. 
I

ADDRESS------------~-------­
Ifthat's the kind of job you're looking 
I

for, speak to a Navy recruiter. You'll find CITY______STATE_____ZIP_____ that Navy Officers have unequalled I 
DATEOF: 
I

opportunities in fields like Nuclear Power, Birth tCollege Graduation Aviation, and Engineering. tUniversity •GP I 
L 
CN 9/9 

______________.J
Or call toll free 800-841-8000. (In Georgia, 
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r r 
r 
The Observer Wednesday, September 19, 1979 -page 6 

WISCOnSin COLLEGE STUDEnTS 
BELIEVE .... 
Euelun wood Reading ounamlcs 


DANA HORAN, UW -Milwaukee: 
"Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics is everything it is advertised to be ... 1 learned how to master and enjoy reading. I recommend Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics to all college students." 
Beginning rate: 186 words per minute Beginning comprehension: 57.5% Ending rate: 2489 wpm Ending comprehension: 65% 



DEBRA PASSEHL, UW -Eau Claire: "Everything went super ~greatest investment I ever made!" Beginning rate: 197 words per minute Beginning comprehension: 55% Ending rate: 2401 wpm Ending comprehension: 70% 
DMITRI KARMAS: UW -Milwaukee: 
"I was skeptical about the Evelyn Wood course at first, but after taking it, I felt it was well worth it. By using the techniques that are taught in the course, I was able to raise my reading speed and com­

prehension." 

Beginning rate: 363 words per minute Ending rate: 2657 wpm 
Beginning comprehension: 46% 
Ending comprehension: 63% 
JOHN RUIZ, Marquette University: 
"The class was put together very well and the teacher was excel­lent. Th~ results for me and the rest of my class were amazing -my reading rate increased by almost 17 times, with better recall of all the material ..." 
Beginning rate: 226 words per minute Beginning comprehension: 52.5% Ending rate: 2524 wpm Ending comprehension: 81% 
Learn to handle your technical reading with
, greater speed, comprehension and retention in our special College Program. 
Attend aFree 1-Hour lntroductoru Lesson 
CLASSES ARE HELD 
1:30, 3:30, and 7:30 room c-127 Notre Dame ACC 

Football tickets 
stolen 
Mike Busick, Ticket Manager of the ACC, announced that a number of season's tickets for South Bend residents and Notre Dame faculty have been stolen from the ACC ticket office. 
Anyone buying GA tickets is· advised to call Busick at 7354 to insure that they are valid. Security l?ersonnel will be checking tickets at the game and will turn away "any person possessing the stolen tickets. 
Fellowships nomination announced 
A meeting concerning pom­inatiog procedures fot;' the Danforth Fellowship will be held today at 4:30p.m. in Rm. 118 of O'Shag. Notre Dame is allowed to nominate four stu­dents from among current sen­
iors and  recent graduates  for  
the  prestigious  Danforth  Fe!  
lowship.  

Students planning to grad­uate study in fields represented in the departments of the College' of Arts and Letters and the College of Science are eligible for Danforth competi­tion. 
Democrats meet 
The Notre Dame/St. Mary's Young Democrats will have elections for officers at their meeting tonight at 7:30p.m. in Room 2-D of LaFortune. Plans for speakers and the spring presidential primaries will be discussed. 

nD women Rally ~OR 1st. annual 
fruit ofthe loom 

Ralb tU€S.,S€pt. 25, €€t B€tw€€n BP an ~Rl€y at 8:00pm 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers
The news is reported as accurately and 
-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chie( ........Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ..................Mark Perry represent the opinwn of a majority of Managing Editor..........Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commenraries, Editonal Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor ........,.....Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ... ...... M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ....... .Steve Odland newspaper published by the students . able to all members of the community, News Editor.................... Mark Rust Production Manager .......Tim Sullivan of the University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor.................Mike Shields Advertising Manager ....... .. Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It does· not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Edt'tor .. ...Ellen Buddy Controller................. .Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor..... ... Margie Brassil Circulation Manager.... .. Greg Hedges 
Features Wednesday, September 19, 1979 -page 7  
'Harpsichord Weekend' at Saint Mary's by Paula Tironi In eighteenth century Europe period and twentieth century music. harpsichords were as popular and as Included in the latter half will be two common as guitars are today. The ~ongs by ·Maurice Ravel which, twentieth century revival of the although written for piano, come instrument and its music has provid­from texts which refer to the harpsi­ed the impetus for a ''Harpsichord t:hord. The composer allegedly said Weekend" at Saint Mary's College, that ''using the harpsichord rather to be held on September 21-23. Dr. than the piano would be a good Bruce Gustafson, director of the idea.'' three day festival, explained in an Also on Sunday, at 11:15, a Deievalinterview with WSND/FM that the Mass will be celebrated in the Church weekend will be of interest to of Loretto on the Saint Mary'sperformers and students of the campus. The Mass will be said inharpsichord, as well as to classical Latin, following a fourteenth centurymusic lovers who enjoy music of the liturgy accompanie-d by Gregorianeighteenth century. Chant.The craft of one dozen harpsichord makers will be on display throughout The most important guests at the the weekend at Moreau Hall, to be Harpsichord Weekend will be a seen, touched and played by visitors group of thirteen outstanding music­to the festival. Over forty instru­ians who specialize in music and ments will be on display, including instruments of the eighteenth centur­clavichords and one forte-piano be­y. Ars Musica,. the only baroquesides a wide-variety of elaborately orchestra in the United States,_ will decorated harpsichords. As these are perform on Sunday at 8. The Ann· hand-crafted instruments, each the Arbor-based orchestra will feature work of an individual, special care The youthful but celebrated Tom editor of The Diapason, an interna­the music of Bach; the Concerto in must be taken by those who own and Pixton who is currently teaching at tional monthly publication for D-minor for Harpsichord and Orche­play them. Unlike the piano, the the South Shore Conservatory of keyboard musicians, will also be stra, and the Concerto for Four harpsichord is an "unstable" instru­Music in Boston will be featured in a· present at the festival, as well as Harpsichords, which will feature ment which must be tuned and Friday afternoon concert at 2. The Carol Knell, lyric mezzo-soprano, soloists Penelope Crawford, of Ars adjusted frequently. The craftsmen program will consist of music com­who will perform in a solo voice Musica, Laurette Goldberg, Edward and builders attending the Harpsi­posed by Pixton, based on concertos recital on Sunday at 3 p.m. Parmentier and Arthur Lawrence. chord Weekend will discuss by Vivaldi. Performing with Piston Afternoon and evening concerts are The 1979 Harpsichord Wed.. cnd isharpsichord maintenance, as well as will be Edward Parmentier, a faculty open to the public, and will feature the second such festival to be held atconstruction and decoration. member of the University of Michi­guest artists, Saint Mary's faculty Saint Mary's College. The first, heldFeatured artists and performers will gan School of Music, and Alexander members, and students. The student in 1977, was the first har:)sichordinclude Laurette Golfberg, a native of Siliber, musicologist from the Univer­recital on Saturday afternoon at 3 will festival to be held in the are," and oneSouth Bend. Goldberg is currently a sity of Wisconsin-Madison. Also include students from Case Western of the first in the United States.member of the faculties of the appearing at the festival will be Reserve, the University of Michigan,University of California, Berkeley, Willard Martin, harpsichord builder Saint Mary's College, and several Since the 1977 weekend, at least five and the San Francisco Conservatory whose instruments are in ~reat other schools. On Saturday evening festivals have sprung up in imitation of Music. On Friday evening at 8, demand world-w1de. at 8, Edward Parmentier will perform of the Saint Mary's Harpsichord Ms. Goldberg will present a solo Three faculty members will be works from the renaissance and Weekend: The 1979 series will be an recita I, "Francois Couperin and His featured from the Music Department baroque periods, including the music important contribution to the revival Influences in the Bach Family," an of Saint Mary's College: Dr. Bruce of Byrd, Cabanilles, J.S. Bach, and of eighteenth century music in the exploration of the impact of French Gustafson, Director of the Harpsi­Scarlatti. United States, as well as a fascina­harpsichord music by Francois chord Weekend, is a specialist in A solo voice recital by Carol Knell at ting, instructive and enjoyable Couperin on Johann Sebastian Bach seventeenth century French harpsi­3 on Sunday afternoon will be weekend for anyone interested in and his sons. chord music. Arthur Lawrence, divided -into music from the baroque harpsichord music.  
New Semester Abroad ProRram Three Months in Mexico Words are Inadequate by Peggy Osberger "How was your semester in co'l.lTS"es and received a full seme­never been so involved ia my own country distinct trom Mexico, yet no Mexico?" For the seemingly hund­ster's credits (16) for my academic education before. less lovely a place nor less inspiring in its people. I have a clearerredth time an unsuspecting friend studies. My courses were: Nor have I ever lived with 17/Lople poses me this question and for the before but I am glad that I di . The conception and enhanced apprecia­Intensive Individualized Spanish -17 student participants in the pro­tion of what Latin America is afterhundredth time, while countless five hours a day for four weeks.memories of my months in Mexico gram shared a large house and havin~ lived in such varied Latin  

pass through my thoughts, I swallow hard and merely reply "Great, 
thanks." Period. ­Of course, if given an inch more 
take the mile and begin to recount 
some of those dear, dear memories: Oh -the ·-people-are-so-beautiful-! -love-the-weather-it's-so-warm-and­1-can-speak-el-espanol-amd-I-learn­ed-about-politics -and-Latin culture­and-the-Umted States-and-about­myself-and...and so on. 
The fact of the matter is that there is no adequate way to describe my time living and studying in the city of Cuernavaca in Mexico, about orie hour south of the nation's capital, Mexico City. I participated in the "Program in Global Community," sponsored by Augsburg College in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The pro­gram is being offered to Notre Dame students of the present school year. The ''Program in Global Commun­ity'' is an opportunity to live and learn in a community for 3 months. The program's pnmary focus the study of issu"es related . to gl?bal justice and hberauon. 
The academic component of the program was worthwhile and challen­ging in a way that has given a fresh direction to my life. I took four Taught by Mexican instructors, in small groups of four people or less and geared to the individual's compe­tency level. 
Cultural Issues Semianar -a series of eight "mini-courses" out of which the student chooses four to carry for credit. The widely-varied themes of the "mini-courses" include: Women and Change in Latin America, Pre­Colonial History and Culture of Mexico and Chile: Three Case Studies. 
Communication in Global Perspective -a seminar which focus­es on issues in intercultural communication and global justice. 
The Church and Social Change in Latin America-focuses on the rela­tionship of the Church to poverty, political oppre~sion and social injus­tice in Latin America. Central to the course is an examination of the · emerging ''Theology of Liberation.'' 
I chose to take the theology course but other options are also possible, such as a second intensive Spanish course or a di,recred study course. The academic portion of the program was challenging and essential, be­cause what I learned in the classroom I later saw on the streets. I have formed a community in which we shared many cooking and cleaning responsibilities while exploring what it means to live in community. It was dorm life on a small scale, only more fun and much more meaningful. Often we traveled on weekends to see more of Iindo Mexico. Other times we'd stay close to home and go camping near the snow-capped vol­cano Popocatepetl or just relax in the sun of the "City of Eternal Spring­time." It beats the pants off South Bend weather! 
On a more serious note, however, whether traveling or at home in Cuernavaca, one 1s part of everyday life in Mexico, a life ofpoverty fr;>r the large majority of the people, but a poverty bouyed-up by hope and a love for life. One also becomes aware of the United States presence in both the economy and society. 
For three weeks we lived with Mexican families. This was a highlight of everyone's experiences, by which we came to know the Mexican people as our brothers and sisters; indeed ''our families'' re­mained our companeros throughout the rest of the semester. For 2 weeks in late April we travelled through and studied in Guatemala, a 
-·~~ 

countnes. 
The "Program 11 Global Community's" director, Joel Mugge, is a communications professor at Augsburg College in Minneapolis, who has extensive experience in developing and leading study pro­grams m Mexico. He ·will be at Notre Dame within the next few weeks to discuss the program, if enough students indicate an interest. The cost of the program is $2 ,250 equival­ent to the cost of room, board, and tuition for one term at Augsburg, and costs less than a semester at Notre Dame! This amount includes trans­portation to and from Mexico from Minneapolis, tuition, room, board, as well as the trip to Guatemala. 
The most convincing proof of my 
enthusiasm about the experience IS 
that I stayed for three months in 
Cuernavaca. I moved back in with 
my Mexican family, and combined 
working in a school with volunteering 
in a hospital with a lot of fun and 
learning all the time. 
All interested students are asked to 
please contact Peggy Osberger by 
September 26 at home (282-2241) in 
the evenings or at the Center for 
Experiential Learning (283-2788), . 1110 Memorial Library. 
--~ 


The Observer-Sports Wednesday, September 19, 1979-page 8 
• • • Drubbing 
(continued from page 12) 
textbook style of teamwork they performed against St. Josephs. 
Soccer notes--Lovejoy's first goal came on a spectacular blast to the upper left-hand corner of the net from twenty­five yards out on the right side. Mai and Crotty each connected on a penalty kick .. .In Dayton, the Irish got goals from Mai and Bill Wetterer. Dayton won the game by creating the overtime and scoring on a penalty kick 
[continued from page 12) 
w·ar. · Case played briefly in Satur­day's game at Michigan, bur was on crutches immediately following the contest. 
Sailors place first in /Jtlidwest 
The Notre Dame sailing club placed first in the Midwest and second over-all at the Notre Dame regatta held last week­end at Eagle Lake, MI. The Naval Academy took first, fol­lowed by the Irish, Miami (Ohio), Michigan State, and Michigan. Taking low A awards for the Irish were skippers Phil Reynolds and Greg Fisher, and D skippers Don Condit and Jay Kyle also took first. Notre Dame will be sending teams to Western Michigan and Kent State. 
two mmutes into the extra period. The kick was awarded to Dayton because of an Irish handball within the ~enalty area ... Weekend casualttes for Notre Dame were Tom Luetkehans with ligament dam­age in his hip and halfback Bill Murphy who suffered a recur­rence of chronic back spasms... Saturday's game at Purdue is scheduled for an 11:00 a.m. start. The Loyola game will be played at Cartier Field at 12 noon Sunday. 

. Devine 

Among those who will miss the clash against tht; 17t~· ranked Boilermakers IS spin end Dave Condeni. A fractured elbow will keep the junior wideout from action for six to eight weeks, and opens up a spot for freshman Tony Hunter. Offensive guard Tim HJ.lffman reinjured h1s back only three plays into Saturd.ay'.s ga~e against the Wolw·nnes, and IS also expected nor to see action. ''I don· t even ·think we can think about him this week," 
said Devine. 
"We've got 19 kids on full scholarship who are out for the year," Devine added. "And we've got another five on full scholarship that will miss the Purdue game.'' 
Defensive right cornerback John Krimm remains question· able this weekend after suffer­ing a.wrist InJury. Freshman Dave Duerson is ready to step in if he is called upon. 
NEW YORK (AP) · In the largest compensation award in National Basketball Association history, Commissioner Larry O'Brien awarded three players and a No. 1 draft choice to the Portland Trail Blazers Tuesday as payment for d • .: signing of veteran free agent center Bill Walton by the San Diego Clippers. 
In his monumental decision, the Commissioner awarded for­ward Kermit Washington, cen­ter Kevin Kunnert, guard Randy Smith and a 1980 first-round draft pick to Portland as compensation for the 6-foot-11 Walton, who signed a five-year, $1 million per year contract with the Clippers last May 12. 
However, O'Brien gave the Clippers an option to retain the 
high-scoring Smith,  the  Most  
Valuable  Player  in  the  1978  
NBA All-Star game.  He ruled  

that if the Clippers paid $350,000 and assigned their 1982 first-round draft selection to the Blazers, they could keep Smith. 
O'Brien gave San Diego until 5 p.m. EDT Thursday to decide on Smith. 
The outspoken, 26-year-old Walton said he did not agree with the Commissioner's deci­siOn. 
"I don't think it was fair," he said after a workout with the Clip~ers. "It wasn't what I had in mmd. We were very close to a championship team until this morning (Tuesday), when the Commissioner took three of our better players away. Indirectly, I'm somewhat responsible for that." 

• • • Sm.ile 

[contl, 11edfrom page 12] 
ball in range for Male's k.icking. Besid~s, af~er being banged around 35 umes by Ron S1mpkms and Co., maybe he deserved the ayvard jus.t for • making it back to the locker room m one p1ece. 
And besided again--who really ca~es what KeithJackson and Fran~ Broyle~ thtn~, anyway? 
You see, once you get mto a dtscuss1on of who was the games's most valuable player, you get into all sorts of troub!e. I mean, what about Scott Zettek? He came back from two knee injuries to play one of the strongest gam~s I've ever seen a lineman play. Or Mark CzaJa who hasn't played a down of football for two years but played brilliantly last Saturday? And don't forget who blocked the field goal. . . Where would we have been without Bob Crable? So you see, it doesn't pay to worry about ~ho was MVP or whatever. The numbers on the scoreboard are what counts. The football team feels that way; I think the fan should as well. 
One other thing that bothered me abou! 
Saturday's game was the w~y people found cause to criticize NO's offensive performance. The biggest complaint dealt with the ~onserva­tion play-ca!Hng that came from the lnsh sidelines. 
Now, I admit, 80-yard bombs are nice--but.no team completes too many of . them agamst Michigan. In a games wh~re h1s ~earn was a decided underdog where h1s starung fullback was out for the s~ason and where his starting quarterback was out for the game--maybe Dan Devine and his staff were smart not to take cha_nces. Maybe they knew that getting i~side the 40-yard line. meafl:t a sure t~ree pomts? 
In lastJear's M1ssoun game, Devme was criticize for not kicking field go3:ls--for not playing it conservative enough..Th1s year, he did just the opposite and peopl~ JUmped on the warpath again. "We want excitement!!" they 
yelled. . . . . . 
Look, if a 12-10 wm over M1ch1gan at M1ch1gan isn't exciting enough, maybe you're watchmg the wrong game. 





ARMY ROTC PROVIDES 
: merit scholarships-up to 520,000 Ill !leadership development Emanagement training
*
:adventurei* employment opportunity .1 
Graduate from Notre Dame as an Army Officer 
CAll(219) 283-6264 
.... , ~~····· ~··· ....... 


-

I 
I I j 
•

MARSH SUPERMARKETS INVITES YOU TO CALL AHEAD TO EITHER OF OUR LAFAYEIIE STORES AND. PLAN YOUR BIG FOOTBALL WEEKEND•••SATURDAY, 
• 
SEPT.22nd 
·USE THE TOLL FREE NUMBER BELOW TO CONTACT OUR MAIN OFFICE... IF YOU WISH TO ORDER A PARTY TRAY OR SPECIAL PARTY ITEM... WE WILL RELAY YOUR ORDER.TO ONE OF OUR. MARSH LAFAYETTE STORES!!! AND YOU CAN PICK IT UP THE DAY OF THE GAME CALL TOLL FREE . 
. BETWEEN 9 a.m. & 4 p.m. 
~~~~~TID ffi@@o~ffi~o ffi~~ffi 
THERE WILL BE FRESH LIVE LOBSTERS AVAILABLE AT BOTH STORES SEPTEMBER 21st & 22nd! 
j

WEST LAFAYETTE...ON BYPASS 52 WABASH VILLAGE AND · LAFAYETTE SQUARE 2250 TEAL ROAD -BOTH ARE OPEN 24 HOURS 
GREAT FOR THE TAILGATE! 
•1.00 OFF 
ON ANY 1,,1:1;tJ:na PARTY TRAY ! WIT~\-H9s0c£~~oN ! ' 
WITH COUPON AT RIGHT 
14 DIFFERENT 
KINDS TO CHOOS€ 
. FROM... 
I  ANY PARTY TRAY  I  
I1  PLEASE PLACE ORDERTWO DAYS IN ADVANCE  I1  
I  Good lhru September 22nd  I  

l·~IT1 wevuyou 7~ 
~ 
.
/~, 
~.~ ~; .~
~!__
; 
.
~ 
h".. 
~ ~... -' 
~ . -~ ,... ...l.i ~ -~-'; 
I 
E 
750 M 
GALLO 
CtGABLIS


BLAI~l!C
$ s··.· 
'. ,.~ ',.
. 
-.
•
• 

, : 12-oz. CJ\,NS 
: 12-ct. s~rROHjS 
1.5 LITER CARLO ROSSI'S 
CHABLIS 
79

•199 
PRICES AND COUPONS IN THIS AD GOOD ONLY AT OUR LAFAYETTE STORES THRU SAT., SEPT. 22nd 
FRESH MADE CUBAN OR SU.BMARINE 
SANDWICHES 
Jumbo Sub Buns loaded with 9-oz. of Meat and Cheese, Garnished with lettuce & dressing 
12-0Z. CANS 
6-PACK 
MILLER 
LIT~ $ 89 
r .. 

The Observer -SportsBoard Wednesday, September 19, 1979-page 10 
ACROSS 29 Hysteria 1 Oinochoe's 33 African cousin 
people 
5 Conform 34 Coral Sea 10 Hogshead gulf 14 Crystal 36 Macaw 
gazer 37 "-can't 15 Mild oath 
take it..." 16 Baking 38 Methods chamber 40 Brown's 
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Pittsburgh  00  58  .608  
Montreal  87  59  ..596  2  
St. Louis  78  70  .527  12  
Philadelphia  78  72  .520  13  
Chicago  76  73  .510  141/z 
New York"  56  91  .381  33Vz  
Wast  
Cincinnati Houston Los Angeles San Francisco San Diego Atlanta  B5 83 73 68 63 59  66 67 78 84 88 00  .563 .553 .483 .447 .417 .396  1Vz 12 17Vz 22 25  

W  l  Pet.  GB  
Baltimore  98  51  .658  
Milwaukee  89  62  .589  10  
Boston  84  65  .564  14  
New York  80  69  .537  18  
Detroit  81  70  .536  18  
Cleveland  77  74  .510  22  
Toronto  50  101  .331  49  
West  
California Kansas City Minnesota Texas Chicago Seattle Oakland  82 79 78 76 66 63 52  69 72 73 76 B4 89 100  .543 .523 .517 .500 .440 .414 .342  3 4 6Vz 15Vz 19Vz 30Vz  

17 Prewar state: abbr. 19 Agitate 41 Three: 20 Clothing comb. form 21 Rod for 42 Honks • 
twisting 43 Tushingham 
thread 44 Attempts 23 Even steven 46 Timetable 24 Eye or sun abbr. 
25 Attic 48 Hypotheti­
49  Net  
51  Factual  
53  Songs of  
praise  
56  Churchman  
59  Erudition  
60  Descendants  
of Jacob  
62  Blueprint  
63  Heads'  
alternative  
64  Alphabetic  
letters  
65  Where the  
heart is  
66  Ant  
67  Anglo-Saxon  
laborer  
DOWN  


The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 

1 Glacial ridges 
2 River to the Arctic Ocean 
3 Small ca~es 4 Certain 
loner 5 Program 6 Blockhead 7 Free-for-­B Upholstery 
fabric 
9 Ear part 10 Tree 11 Dedicated 12 Put on the 
market 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli 

.,3 Cap or high 18 Bonnet 
invader 22 Brainstorms 24 Speak super­
ficially 25 Philippine island 26 Orchestra 
members 28 -facto 30 Wavers 31 A Muse 32 Caesar, 
for one 35 Obnoxious 
one 38 Class 39 National 
park 43-Accomplish 45 One-seeded 
fruit 47 Stop 50 Home of the 
silkworm 52 Teleost 53 Xanadu's 
river 54 -conten­
dere 55 Mine car 56 Ghostly 57 Young 
ending 58 Existence: Lat. 

61 Wheel part 

IV£ 
IWTO 50ME 61RL5 ROOMS 
AND IYROTE ON lliE STALLS "IF YOU'RE A 
GOOD TIME CALL M11l::H 

Baseball 
NATIONAL LEAGUE East 
Tuesday's Results 

Pi~sburgh 5, Montreal 3, 11 innings ~hicago 2-2, New York 0-1, 2nd game 11 
mnmgs 
Philad~lphia 5, St. Louis 3, 10 Innings San Diego 4, Houston 0 Los Angeles 6, Atlanta 1 San Francisco 3, Cincinnati 1 
Wednesday's Results 

Montreal (Grimsley 8-9 and May 9-3) at New York (Swan 12·12 and Hausman 1-5), 2 (t-n) 
Pittsburgh _(Biyleven 11-5 and Bibby 1D-4) at Philadelphia (Noles 3-3 or Espinosa 14-11 and Larson 1-0), 2, (t-n) 
Chicago (Krukow 9-9 and McGlothen 11-13) at St. Louis (Fulgham 9-4 and Martihei 14-7), 2, (t-n) . 
Atlanta (McWilliams 2-2) at Houston (K. Forsch 10-6), (n) Cincinnati (Norman 11-11) at San Diego (Shirley 7-15). (n) San Francisco (Halicki 5-6) at Los Angeles (Sutcliffe 15-9), (n) 
Thlonesbury 
BABY. I [)()/({KtJ0111 IAHRE 70 81i61N. /f(){,l/ 


SO ()4/c PAYI IAIALKEIJ (J(ff THE 1</TC/ICNC«R. 
ANP ft.AG6CO CX1MV 7MJ PA551NG C/l.I.K£ A
BOYS ON A MOTrR-vr-,•..,,..... 
CYC/.E.
\ 

What can you do with a liberal Arts Degree?  
Denise Cavanaugh can tell you College to career days at SMC Sunday, September 23  
8:00 Carroll Hall  
I'  
•  

AMERICAN LEAGUE East 
Tuesday's Results 
Boston 8, Toronto 3 
Cleveland 16, New York 3 
Detroit 2, Baltimore 1 Chicago 1. Minnesota 0, 10 innings California 6, Kansas City 4 Texas 9, Oakland 5 Milwaukee 7, Seattle 6 
Wednesday's Games 

Minnesota (Zahn 12-6) at Chicago (Baumgarten 12-8) Texas (Alexander 4-7) at Oakland (Kingman 7-5) Boston (Stanley 15-10) at Toronto (Stieb7-6), (n) New York (John 18-9) at Cleveland (Barker 6-5), (n) Baltimore (D. Martinez 15-14 or Stone 11-7) at DetroiT (Morris 14-7), (n) California (Ryn 15-12) at Kansas City (Gura 11-11), (n) . Milwaukee (Sorensen 14-13) at Seattle (Bannister 9-14), (n) 
by Garry Trudeau 
I /X)4/TKJ-.KJIAJ IA/HY, 64813. I GUESS AFTFf/?.. 7EN YCAR5 OF BEING A IUIF&A#O MUll-lEI?, I 5TIU PIWT!<NOW /A/If(} I fAJIIS. ANO I PIASN'TG8TTING ANY 
HaP fl?l)l1 Y~FATHER.. 
f 


I [)(}NNO, ruee~r Ht:11t:Y. IT IAIA5 tvA5A BMW! 81G. I /AlAS IN COlLEGEM&N A HURRY. Al/JIAYS RJOE 8Miifs!
I 

-~--­

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail.



Classifieds 

Will pay $40 for pair of MSU tix. Call Jogger Jim from Morrissey. Thanks for Mark 277-1891. making me smile. Who are you? Kathy 4489 • 
USC and So. Carolina tix for sale. Best offer!! Cindy 5742 Happy 20th birthday Bobber'' Please 
call the "Lonesome Loser" at 1796 and Silk Screen T-sr1irts, hi~h profits com-wish him a happy birthday' Girls, maybe plete instructions. send 5 to: A.B.M., someone can help him break his vow. Box 335, East Rutherford, New Jersey, He's good looking(?), intelligent(?). and 07073. lonely(definately.) Happy Birthday!! 
Refund on first order of any supplies. Love. Mom 
'75 Mere Bobcat Wagon P1 S. new steel Dear M, Je !'adore, mais rna coeur ap­radials. new brakes. mech sound. very partient a un autre. Restez dans rna vie. good transportation 81,000 miles. Call s'il vous plait... Jack. 287-2723. Love, L 
FOR SALE Moped--need of repair, highest bid, Notre Dame Credit Union-­

Hey Boyz, 4454. Any great parties planned for this 
weekend?? You'll need one .to drown Win a free trip for two to the NO/Miami your sorrows after Saturday's game' game in Tokyo, Japan. A fifteen day 
P U P.B vacation to the Orient for only $5.00. For ticket info call Georgette 287-9628. Mike. Drawing Sept. 20, 1979. Happy 21st birthdayll ' Love, Deb. 'help... Need 2 GA tix to Purdue. Call Dianne. 288-3882. Turned into your Pumpkin at Corby's 
9120/78. Know you didn't just want to I really need 3-4 MSU tix (GA) PLEASE--see if it fit. The t-shirt and me are yours call Diane. 7906. 
forever. 

Love, Your Baby $$$$$Need 2-4 GA tickets to any home game--especially MSU. Call Pat at 1651. Beauties, 
You made my day acouple of times over. H2!pl Desparately need GA tickets. 2 for Everybody: "Who are they?" MSU ga111~ 3for SC game and 4 for USC Me: ''I'll never tell." 
game Please call Karen. 4695. That certainly makes up for happy hour. 
Next time we'll have dessert. Desperately need 4 GA tickets for the ' The Emperor's Roomie MSU game. Call Cheryl at SMC 4875. 
Campus KENNEDY '80 group forming. Will trade 2 G.T. GA's and 2 So. Car. Call Paul at 8451 now. GA's for 2 MSU GA'~. Call Jeff 6898. 
Need A refrigerator?? Sorin has one WANTED: 2 or more tickets, must be cheap. Only $10. Contact Dave at 8782. grouped togetl1er, for any N D home football games. Willing to buy at I NEED ONE GA OR STUDENT TICKET premium p1·ice. Call 287-3311. TO ANY HOME FOOTBALL GAME 
CALL Blll8444. Does anyone out there have 1 GA ticket -----------------­for Michigan St? If you do, please call Kirby, Andy at 1958. Thanks. I told you I'd put apersonal in for you and 
your roommate!! MONEY NO OBJECT!! NEED 2OR 4GA 

-----------.0.---·---­TICKETS FOR GEORGIA TECH. BITZ OFFERING A TICKET TO ' ·UT 6931. CHEAP TRICK CONCERTI .A.T 
WINGS* KALAMAZOO IN E:XCH/\1WE Need student tickets for Southern Cal. FOR A RIDE TO AND FROM CONCERT. Bitz 6931. MIKE 272-3188. 
I have HOTEL RESERVATIONS for Dad and Mommie Dearest, Mich. St. weekend. Will trade for GA or Happy Anniversary'' Pl~ase send money. student tix. Call Lee 6755. Eddy 
"Beat the boilermakers special" ...Fri-I need 2 GA tickets for the USC game ~ day night at the Senior Bar. Be there. Call Bill at 8288. --­
John, Need GA's to any home game. Call Sorry about the situation ·he other 4-1-5710. night. Thanks for coming th, uugh 11 I'll do the same for you sometime soon. Need one student ticket for Michigan AG ~-State. Call Patsy 5710. 
.1ary Beth Sterling is a diehard Steeler $$$$Need 2-4 GA tix to any home game. ldn and has a birthday this Friday.Especially MSU. Call Pat at 1651. 
Billy T., I desperately need sex---no but Tenn. tix, Thanks for bringing some sunshine into YESIII call1266 or 1267: my life. Wish I could see that smile more often. Love. A friend with an NA obsession. 
To 'k.b. at W.S.C. Here is your first clue, make sure you read it all, the surprise is: 
Personals 
what can you get for a dollar? A dollar 

Bigger than a bread box but smaller thanwill get you only one-fourth of a dining your dorm room.
hall meal and change for a phone call. 
33-1 
TENNIS KING scholastic writers...meeting Wed. 6:30The score of love-love. I'II play tennis 3rd floor LaFortune. Everyone welcome.

with you anytime. THE TENNIS QUEEN 

Brian Cheatle: Talked to you Thursday before last, in
Jane Andersen's birthday is Sat. Call her Psych lounge. Haven't seen you since-­

at 7995 and wish her awild and crazy day. 

like to see you again Call 7923. 
Mary Ann. ~ 
Timmy Lacrosse,
Please don't face me this Friday. I am 

We were there, where were you? 4:30just a lonely fresl1man who need~ your came, you missed your cue. 
companionship. 

Your 'friends', Mary and Patti
Mike Dad and Mommie Dearest,
All MEMilER• OF THE KW SOFT~ Happy Anniversary! Please send money . 

BALL TEMI1 .ET PSYCHED!!!!! Did 
Eddywe ever decide what those letters were really going to stand for?????? 

"Beat the Boilermakers Speciai'"--Friday-night at the Senior Bar. Be there. 
• 

• 
\ 
I' 


Case ends career 

Devine doubts Lisch will play 
by Paul Mullaney Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Football Coach Dan Devine announced Tues­day that senior quarterback Rusty Lisch does not figure in his immediate plans for this Saturday's contest against Pur­due in West Lafayette. 
Lisch sprained hts left ankle in last Saturday's 12-10 win over Michigan and will most likely not be ready this weekend. 
'Tm about 99 percent sure that he will not suit up," Devine told a statewide tele­phone connection of writers and broadcasters yesterday after­noon. 
"I don't think it's a serious sprain that will hold him out the rest of the year. If he doesn't suit up, we probably won't take him on the trip so he can stay at home and get treatment on the ankle.'' 
Devine added that a replace­ment will not be named, at least at this early point, if Lisch is indeed unable to compete. 
"In the event that Rusty doesn't play --and I've ruled him out rn my own mind --then we'd go with either Tim Koegel Mike Courey or Greg Knafelc, '' noted the Irish coach. "I couldn't honestly tell you 

Sports Briefs _ ______, 
Irish cancel ]V season 
Notre Dame has cancelled the remainder of its junior varsity football schedule for the '79 campaign. 
The Irish dropped their junior varsity opener 10-6 Sun~ay to Wisconsin but a lack of manpower has forced Dan Devrne and his staff to cancel the remaining five games on the agenda. 
''With the number of injuries we've had this fall, we simply don't have the numbers to complete the schedule," Devine says. 
The Notre Dame schedule had included a rematch against the Badgers plus a pair of games against both Michigan and Purdue. 
Football accepts walk-ons 
Notre Dame football coach Dan Devine has asked that any students inreres~ed in becoming a walk-on member of the Irish football squad contact coach Gene Smith as soon as possible, either in person or by calling 283-7606. 
"We're looking for big kids that want to be part of Notre Dame football,'' said Devine. ''For some kids who are on the smaller side, we will be looking for spee.d." . 
''The only thing we can promtse them 1s that they wdl/et the same treatment that Chuck Male had for a year-an -a­and that Lou Pagley has had for three. They will be treated as another member of the team.'' 
Interhall X-countr_y _forms 
Today is the last day you can sign up for this year's interhall Cross Country meet. Entries must be submitted to the interhall office (Room C-2 in the ACC), and teams of seven runners from the same hall are required. 
Fencers to meet toniKht 
The Notre Dame varsity fencing team will be holding a 
meeting tonight at 7 p.m. at the Fencing Gym of the ACC. 
All current and prospective team members must attend. 

though, vvhich orie of those three it would be.'' 
Devine also announced that defensive tackle Jay Case has finished his coflege football career. In combined decision between team physicians, the coaching staff and Case him­self, it was ruled that further complications to his current lower back problems could cause life-long problems for the senior from Cincinnati. 
•'That's a little bit like losing a part of yourself, because I've been very close to Jay,'' said Devine, who first came to Notre Dame at the same time as Case. 
"We had expected him to be the cornerstone on which we'd build our defensive unit this 
[continued on page 8] 
Wednesday, September 19, 1979 -page 12 
Mai, Lovejoy pace Irish in 9-0 drubbing of St. Joe's 
by Gary Grassey Sports Wn'ter 

With memories of a dismal 
weekend weighing heavily on 
their minds, the Notre Dame 
soccer team gathered on Cartier 
Field last night to do what they 
do best--play winning soccer. 

The Irish mauled a hopelessly 
outmanned St. Joseph's Col­
lege squad 9-0 in an rmportant 
tune-up before upcoming con­
frontatiOns with Purdue and 
Loyola-Baltimore, the #8 rank­
ed team in the nation, later this 
week. The Irish recvrd is now 
2-3. 

Notre Dame broke out of the 
shock inflicted by back-to-back 
weekend losses to Dayton, 3-2 
in overtime, and Xavier, 2-0, by 
assaulting St. Josephs with a 
first half display of passing and 
shooting that netted seven 
goals. An inspired Irish ball­
club registered an astounding 
65 shots at St. Joseph's goalie 
Mike Burnett (27 saves) on the 
evening. A delighted coach 
Rich Hunter stated, "If you 
play like this against any team, 
you'II do well." 

Sami Kahale began the scor­ing barrage with a header at the 
3:33 mark. He was followed by scoring ·input from Kevin Lovejoy (3 goals, 2 assists) and Mike Mai (3 goals, 1 assist) and solo tallies from Tom Crotty and Dannie McCurrie. Kahale also contributed two assists. 
A pleasant surprise for Hunter was the play c;>f three freshmen. In particular, Mark Luetkehans, who started the game, notched two assists. Younger brother of senior full­back Tom Luetkehans, Mark has begun to show Hunter that his all-state honors in Illinois high school play were no fluke. Another fro~h, winger Matt Stolwyk, saw considerable play­ing time during the rout and , managed to get off six shots, in addition to an assist. :Winger Jay Scwartz also spent the evening causing considerable havoc amongst the St. Joseph's' 
defenders. · 
Hunter felt that, "We need­ed a game like this after Friday ' 
and Sunday. We showed the 
kind of consistency we "neeCl to 
compete with anyone." He told 
his players, "We've got to 
forget about the first Lmr 
games aud start our season 
here.'' 
Assistant. coach Tom VanMeter believed that the weekend experience ''was just a team thing" and that "we have a good team, a solid team and in the long run, it' II show up." Hunter acknowledged that the Ohio fiasco did cause the coachi 'ng staff to • 'contem­plate changing the system" but they decided that "it was the way the players were perform­ing" and not the tactics that was the deciding factor in the losses. "We have to move the ball quickly across the field,'' Hunter reasoned, ''because when we do, we can play with anyone.'' 
Consistency and team play is of paramount importance now because Hunter's Irish must face two of the top ten teams-­Loyola-Baltimore on Sunday and Indiana next Friday--in the nation during the next ten days. Sunday's game with Loyola could be a turning point. Hunter feels that, "This is the most important home same we've ever played." It wrll be up to the Notre Dame soccer team to put the feelings of disapJ?ointment and embarrass­ment rn the back of their minds and just continue to display the 
[continued on page 8] 

Irish MVPs abound 
Second halfeliminates Bo 's smile 
Did you all see Bo Schembechler on TV at 
halftime of last Saturday's game? Well, I didn't 
but I heard ABC's Bill Flemming stuck a 
microphone in his face and asked him the usual 
stuff about how he thought the game was going 
and who he thought would win. I don't know 
exactly how Bo answered, but I guess he was 
smiling and he didn't sound at all worried. 
Funny he wasn't around to be interviewed after 
tht game. . . 
But, in all fairness to Bo (and to this column, 
which I don't want to sound to nasty), I guess 
you can't blame him --for hiding after the game, 
that is. All summer people were mentioning his 
Michigan team in the same breath as the 
national championship. Some even thought it 
was the best team Bo ever coached. Definitely 
the best defense in the nation. 
But theq out of the blue (or green) comes Dan 
Devine and Notre Dame, and Bo's best teamever 
has a .500 record· after only two games. 
No wonder he was cranky afterwa;rds. 
Still, that was a poor excuse for not allowing reporters to talk to his players after the game. Darn, Bo! Those poor scribes needed something to write about. And your short press conference didn'thelp them--it was as boring as your play 
sele..:tion. 
So, when quote-hungry sports writers tried to get in to see the M1chigan players, assistant sports information director, Bruce Madej met them at the door of the room and apologized: 
"Sorry, fellows. You'll have to excuse our players today. They don't feel much like talking.'' 
That's funny, they sure had plenty to say after last year's game. In the meantime, while Bo was keepin his 

Frank LaGrotta 
team locked up like a jury in amurdertrial, Dan 
left his door w1de open. And one of the players 
everybody wanted to talk to was Vagas 
Ferguson. He carried the footbal 35 times that 
afternoon, which is pretty impressive when you 
consider that Notre Dame ran 55 offensive plays. 
His stats showed 118 yards gained and ABC 
named him Notre Dames's Most Valuable Player 
for his efforts. It could be the first of many 
trophies that Ferguson will take home before December. But, then again ...it's much to early to be thinking .about (sh-h-h! !) the Heismann. (Keep running, Vagas.. Christmas may come early this year ' 
Now there were those who thought Chuck Male should have been given the ABC award and there is plenty of credence to their arguments. About three weeks ago, at a Saturday scrim­mage, JeffJeffers of WNDU told me that he thought chuck Male could prove to be Notre Dame's most potent offensive weapon this season. 
I agree then and I still do. Male just might be the best placekicker around--certainly one of the best to ever wear a Notre Dame uniform--and his distance on kickoffs and his accuracy on field goals probably were the deciding factor in Saturday's game. But, lest we forget, football is a team game and Ferguson's runnmg moved the 
[continued on page 8] 



