, , , Heroes anonymous -page 12 

VOL. XIII, NO. 75 

by Tim Sullivan andSteve Odland StaffReporters 
In a mixed display of both support and apathy, hall councils across campus reacted yesterday to Carroll Hall's recent abolition of parietals. 
Out. of 22 dorms, four halls voted yesterday to "abolish" parietals, bringing the total number of dorms wich have taken such an action to eight. Residence halls which acted yesterday are Grace, St. Ed's, Breen-Phillips, and Lyons, joming Carroll Flanner, Pangborn, and Stanford. 
Other halls plan council meetings next week to deliberate on the issue, while still others intend to wait until some formal action is. taken. 
Grace Hall, led by Hall president Jim O'Hare, voted unanimously in a special meeting to create a 24-hour visitation policy and endorse a document which cites sections of du Lac in an argument in favor of hall-determined visitation hours. (For text of statement, see Editorial Page.) 
St. Ed's overwhelmingly passed a motion which read, "The St. Ed's Hall Council, in the spirit of the action taken by Carroll Hall votes that parietals should be abolished or radically changed. 
According to Hall President Bill Vita, that means that parietals should be an option to students on the hall leveL 
Breen-Phillips Hall President Sandy Brandt polled approximately 120 out of the hall population of 219, and concluded that nearly 70 percent of those pofl~~ were in favor of abolishing parietal~. The remammg 30 percent favored keepmg parie­tals merely as a means of reraining some sort of "quiet hours" during the week and favored total abolition during the weekends. 
Lyons Hall council called a special meeting and agreed to abolish parietals withthe provision that quiet hours be enforced by students. Leta Homco, hall president, stated that Lyons supported a r,rotest and was willing to jom a campus-wide 
'break parietals night" if one were organized. 
Ellen Dorney, Badin Hall president, stated that her hall was in f;~vor of reducing parietals to a hall offense, and retaining parietals as a means of maintaining "quiet hours" during the evenings. 
Other hall councils and hall presidents discussed the issue at length and many indicated that an "anti-parietals proposal" would pass there. Pete Visceglia, Dillon Hall president, stated that the proposal would pass in Tuesday's Council meeting. 
Kevin Dolan, Keenan Hall president, stated that the council would listen to Carroll Hall representa­tives on Sunday night, and that the hall members, "definitely want to do something about the issue." 
Dan Darfler, Holy Cross president, said that jud~ing from the general reaction of the resident assistants and hall residents, "we're all for the break-parietals night." He predicted the issue would probably be voted upon favorably Wednes­day. 
Cavanaugh Hall, through individual polling of section leaders, decided to support Carroll Hall's action. A formal vote on the parietals issue will be held on Tuesday at tht." regular hall meeting. 
Dennis Dunleavy, hall president, stated, "We support a dorm-by-dorm referendum on the 
[continued on page 5] 
University officials, rectors display 
little concern over parietal issue 
by john McGrath Affairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear proper channels." Senior StaffReporter stated, ''It (parietals) is still a Although several other rectors University rule,· established by refused comment, Fr. Eugene 

University officials as well as the Board of Trustees, and it will Gorski of Howard Hall, observing many hall rectors apparently are . still be enforced. that parietals are not within the not too concerned about a recent Fr. Richard Conyers, rector of jurisdiction of hall government, move spearheaded by a ~roup of Keenan Hall, described the explained, "It is our freely Carroll Hall residents to abOlish Carroll controversy as ''an im­chosen duty task to enforce them parietals. '' Their response to possible issue," adding, "The (parietals), and if they (students) possible widespread violations, Administration will not budge.'' broke them, we would certainly however, seems clear. enforce the rules.''
"I've had great frustration

In response to the Carroll 
with the CLC (Campus Life ~en pressed about what spe­

move, Vice President for Student 
Council). I don't think we've cific action would be taken up in been addressing the problem (the the actual event of a ' 'break parietals controversy) in the right parietals night," Van Wolvlear 
way, but even when we do explained, ''The RAs would be

Khotneini returns frotn exile 
address the problems, we run informed to pick up as many IDs into a brick wall with the Admin­as possible. Once we get the IDs, 
istration,'' Conyers remarked. we'd work from there."

7EHRAN,Jran [APJ· Ayatullah stage for a showdown with the In a rad.io address Wednesday Ruhollay Khomeini, the voice government of Prime Minister night, Bakhtiar defied Call ing the Carroll controversy Conyers stressed in an inter­from afar who rocked Iran into Shah pour Bakhtiar, and possibly Khomeini's claims to leadershiP., a "non-issue," Lyons Hall rector view yesterday, however, "I ousting the shah, came home with the army. declaring, ''The government Will Sr. Marietta Starrie observed, don't think the University should triumphantly from 14 years of "I am going to establish a not permit the reins of the "Breaking parietals is not the respond harshly to an issue that exile yesterday. government Wlth the bacJcing of country to be held by anyone route to take. The students Dean of Students James Roemer 
He challenged the shaky gov­this nation,'' he told hundreds of except the central government." should keep moving along the calls a matter of 'quiet hours' in ernment and warned Americans thousands ofsupporters at a rally Khomeini damned Iran's for­established route through stu­the dorm.'' and others he wiJI ''cut the in the main Tehran cemetery, eign military advisers, many of dent government.'' "There's a confusion that hands" of the foreign influence burial place of many "martyrs" whom are American. When asked what the Adminc exists," Conyers noted, explain­over this nation. of the bloody anti-shah upheaval. "Our victory can be achieved istration's reaction to a r,roposed ing, ''If they (the Administration) 
Pandemonium welcomed the He denounced as illegal the only when the hands of these "break parietals night ' would relate parietals to good order in frail, white-bearded hero of the monarchy, the shah-endorsed forei~ners are shortened," he be, Van Wolvlear responded, the hall, then I don't think Dean anti-shah revolution back to his Bakhtiar government and the said In an airport arrival speech. ''Those who get caught will be Roemer should interfere, but if 
homeland. national Parliment. He accused " ...I thank you all and beg the dealt with as we always deal with they rela(e them to a ban on 
More than a million ecstatic the shah of '"despotism" and Almighty to cut the hands of violators. We're not going to get sexual activity, then they should Iranians, chanting ''Allah vowed the monarch and his foreigners.'' all of them, but the penalty is face up to that. " Akhbar!" ("God is reat"), associates will never come back Bakhtiar's 27-day-old govern­going to be tough for those that He added, "I think there are. cheered the 78 year-old ~oslem to Iran. ment which has Washington's we do eet ... we have to be much keener issues Eke alcohol 
patriarch as he rode into Tehran ''There cannot be a counrrr. With endorsement, issued no official consistent." abuse and the surfacing problem after flying from France, ending two governments, so the illegal statements as Khomeini hop­Bro. Charles Burke, rector of of drug use and abuse, that his 14-year exile and climaxing a (Bakhtiar) government has to ~et scotched · across Tehran by heli­Grace Hall, concurred, saying, should be attacked first ... a mat· year-long protest that drove Shah out," he declared. Khometni copter and limousine through the "In a hall this size, we'll do what ter of 'housekeeping' doesn't Mohammad Reza Pahlavi out of wants to establish a religiously wildly enthusiastic crowds. The we can. It's obvious that we can't need the attention of the Dean of the country. oriented but vaguely defined nation's armed~ _forces, whose catch everyone, but those that we Students and it shouldn't upset 
Khomein1 inunediately set the Islamic r~public. do will be dealt with through the the whole campus.'' 
[continued on page 2] 

I • ~I :to • -, , • ~ '• ~: • ~ ~ _ , • • 
\ 
-.. -,--­

/ 
News in brief  Friday, February 2, 1979 -page 2  
Soviets call for U.S. ~ to clarify position MOSCOW [APJ--The Soviet Union called on the Carter administration Thursday to ~ the U;S. position toward anti-Soviet statements delivered by CJUnesc Vice Premier Teng Hsiao-Ping d~ his state visit to Washington. In a dispatch from the U.S. capnal, the official Soviet news agency Tass said T~'s visit had been punctuated by "awhole series ofspeeches and statements containing slander against the Soviet Union and its ~licy.' 'TheTass repc>n marked an intensification ofKremlin crincism ofthe Cart~r administration's willingness to host Teng, who left Washington yesterday for a cross~ountty tour to Atlanta, Houston, and Seattle. Groundhogs used in cancer research, weather prediction RHEINHOWS,Pa. [APJ--~e some people will look .to the groundhog to:day for a _aub1o~ prediction of_ the commg of spring SCientiSts here will be usmg the furry cntters for cancer researdt. Dr. Roben Snyde~, who wo~ with _groundhogs_ in laboratories at the Philadelphia Zoo, sa1d the animals are bemg used to learn whether serum hepatitis, a viral liver infection, causes cancer in humans. Their new scientific role notwithstanding, groundhogs no doubt will retain their fanciful reputation as weather forecasters, and one of the betterknown groundhogs will make his annual prediction at the other end ofPennsylvannia, in Punxsutawney. Weather Increasing cloudiness today with a slight chance for light snow by afternoon and highs in the upper teens. Chance of light snow 20 percent friday and 40 percent tonight. Very cold Sunday through Thursday with little or no chance of measurable snow. Highs from around 10 to the low 20's. Lows 5 below to 10 above zero.  • • • • Khomeini returns [continued from page 1) loyalty of legions of foUower5 in intelligence-gathering bases in commanders have pledged to lean thro~ taped messages lean but has not said where the protect Bakhtiar, also kept a low smuggled mto the country and equipment might be re-assigned. p~e, even providiryg_ a military through constant telephone con­helicopter to Khomew. tact orchestrating the mass The government television demonstrations and strikes that broadcast of Khomeini's arrival undermined the shah's rule. Observer stopped after only 20 minutes He arrived here on a chartered and a picture , of the shah ap­Air France jumbo jet, sleepi!tg on peared on the screen. The carpets on the floor Of the welcomes break-off was not explained. first-class lounge. At the cemetery, Khomeini Afterward, Khomeini flew to subscribershad been expected to announce central Tehran and went to the his plans for an "Islamic Revolut­house of a relative. He and his ionary · Council" to lead the staff of some 500 are to stay in a The Observer wishes to wel­nation toward an Islamic re­converted Moslem girls' school come all its subscribers to the public. But a top Khomeini aide, · here for several days before spring semester. We hope you Mehdi Bazargan, told reporters traveling to the holy city of Qom. enjoy reading us daily. To better Khomeini shelved the idea in In another development, an serve you, the circulation depart­favor ofundisclosed "measures" informed source in the govern~ ment asks that you promptly to achieve the same result. ment of the United Arab Emi­notify our office if a problem Military officers have threat­rates told the Associated Press arises in the delivery Of your ened to move against Khomeini that the United States has quietly newspaper. as soon as he takes one:: step transferred much ofits electronic Without your help we will be against the constitution. surveillance equipment aimed unable to take corrective actions. Besides the government and the at theSoviet Union from Iran to Therefore, please call us at (219) army, Khomeini l'lUSt also deal Dubai, a pro-West Persian Gulf 283~8106, or write: with many in the anti-shah sheikdom in the U.R.E. The Circulation Dept. political opposition who have source asked not be identified. The Observer sided with him but now want The Caner administration BoxQ establishment of a non-religious acknowledges it may lose its Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. republic. During his long years in exile -in Turkey, Iraq and France -Khomeini manage4 to hold the &tnroav flassts _The Observer_ hrrt~ llmrt C!tlturtlt Night Editor: Frank Kebe Asst. Night Editor: Beth 5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffm, C.S.C. Huffman, Pam Degnan 9:15a.m. Sunday Rev. Richard Conyers, C.S.C. Copyreaders: Mike Shields, 10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Michael McCafferty, C.S.C. Phil Cackley 12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. Layout Staff: Mary Jo Holland, Lynn Tyler 7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. Michael McCafferty, C.S.C. Editorial Layout: Greg 
CamR===u==s==::t  
Friday, February 2, 1979 4:30 pm--COILOQUIM, "algebraic & geometric methods in linear control theory," prof. bostwick f. wyman, nd. 226 MATH BUilDING 5:14pm--MASS AND SUPPER, at the BUlLA SHED 6:30pm--WORKSHOP, cila, liBRARY AUD. AND LOUNGE 7 pm--MOOT COURT, presented by law school, CCE AUD.  Hedges, Tina Terlaak Features Layout: Tom Behney Sports Layout: Mark Perry Engineering & Computer Science Majors Typists: Mark Perry, Mary Campbell, Lisa DtValeno, Paula Vemon Early Morning Typist: Rosie BEFORE YOU PICK UP Rodgers, Crasher Day Editor: Keith YOUR DEGREE,Melaragno Ad Layout: Sue Johnston, PICK OUR INTERVIEW. ,.Chns Slatt '  
7,9:15 & 11:30 pm--FIIM, "saturday night fever," ENGR. AUD.,$1 7,9, & 11 pm--FIIM, ·"the world's greatest lover," CARROlL HAIL~MC, $1 7:30 pm--HOCKEY, nd vs. colorado college,ACC · Saturday, February 3, 1979 all day--TOURNAMENT, men's volleyball invitational,ACC 8 am--MEETING, national science foundation, MADEIEVA SMC 10:45 am--WORKSHOP, cila, UBRARY AUD. & LOUNGE 3:30 pm--BASKE1BAIL,nd women vs. marquette,ACC 7,&11:30 pm--FILM, "saturday night fever," ENGR. AUD.,$1 7,9,&11 pm--FILM,"world's greatest lover," CARROlL HAIL • SMC,$1 Sunday, February 4, 1979 1 pm--MEETING,nd chess club,LAFORTUNE RATII­SKEILER 3 pn--RECITAL, lisa crawford, harpsichord,UTILE TIIEA1RE 4 pro--MEETING, world hunger coalition,UTILE TIIEATRE 7 pm--WORKSHOP, ''skills identification & resume writing,'' MCCANDLESSPL\NOLOUNGE 7:30 pm--LECTIJRE,freslunan humanities semirutr, prof. peter  Photographer: Phil Johnson Contact your placement office The Observer [USPS 598 920] is for interview dates.published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Oame and Saint r------------------,> , IMary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year [$10 per :HUGHES:semester[ from The Observer. P.O. box I I Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second L------------------JCiNIIng • ,_IIIIOtld with electt011ics class postage paid, Notre Oame, In­diana 46556. The Observer is a member of the AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/FAssociated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. Original Oriental Art Exhibition & Sale LaFortune Student Center Lobby Mon Feb 5 11 to 7 Tues Feb 6 10 to 5 Original: Sponsored by N.D. Etchings Serigraphs  


walshe,nd,UBRARY AUD. . 
9 pm--WSND, "speaking of sports" with paul stauder, lou Severino ahd frank lagrotta " 
Services Commission Woodcuts Watercolors Arranged by Marson, Ltd. Lithographs 

--------------------------------------------------------------------~------­
The Observer Friday, February 2, 1979 -page 3 
CroW"e to coordinate Volunteer Services 
by Filen Buddy St. Mary's Editor 

Ellen Crowe, a sophomore Business major from Fairfield, Ct., has been appointed coor­dinator of the Volunteer Services Offices at Saint Mary's, according to Director of Student Affairs Mary Laverty. 
•T m excited about this position and anxious to get Saint Mary's women involved. There is so much we can do for the community,'' Crowe said. 
Crowe stressed that her position has a three-fold purpose. First, it was established to make infor­mation concerning volunteer services more accessible to Saint Mary's students. She will pro­vide information about the main services that work out of the Notre Dame office. Some of these ser.Uces include CILA and the Neighborhood Work Study Program. 
The second reason for establishing the office was to form Community Service Projects in each dorm on campus. ''Each dorm selects a proJect, like a 
nursing home and provides community services to that home, such as weekly visits,'' Crowe explained. The third purpose Crowe mentioned was to fulfill any individual requests for services from the South Bend community. This includes things such as shoveling snow or mowing lawns. 
Tutoring and Scout leaders are also volunteer services that are needed. 
Plans are already in progress to seek volunteers in the Saint Mary's community. Crowe intends to visit sociology and educationclassed for specific help from students in these fields. She is also preparing a slide presentation to make a campus­wide appeal to all students who are interested. 
"It is a vital service to the Saint Mary's community,'' Laverty said. "It is not only humanitarian, but provides social interaction and educational ex­perience.'' 
Presently, hours are between 1 and 4 pro. in Crowe's room, 102 Holy Cross. Anyone 
with questions can call 4272. 


The University Art Gallery and series of lectures and discussions the Department of Art are about the form and meaning of narrative.
sponsoring the Third Ann].lal 
The series begins Tuesday,Interdisciplinary Program in the when Mitchell Lifton and Arts and Humanities, featuring a Mariorie Kinsey discuss 
"Narrative and the Translation of 
Time." \\'ednesday's subject is "The

'It's no joke' 
~---------------,


Carroll explains abolishtnent !BULLA SHED i
bv Tim Sullivan StaffReporter 

Concerned that other dorms may misinterpret their motives for "abolishing" parietals earlier this week, Carroll Hall represent· atives yesrerday released a letter explaining the purpose of that action, and sent a delegation to the OBSERVER to clirify and reiterate their position. 
"We're very serious about this whole matter,'' stated Phil Widlenhain, Carroll Hall)-Board spokesman, "it's not a joke." 
Endorsed overwhelmingly by the Carroll Hall Council, the letter states that the abolition of parietals is a "protest of the University's apparent disregard of student's nghts and inter­ests," which will thus make ~e administration more responsive to the wants and needs of the students. 
''Parietals, like many other university policies, hinder both personal and social growth, and lead to the decay in the quality of life at Notre Dame," the letter continued. 
"We're not on a half-hearted whim," explained Tim Coonan, Carroll spokesman, looking for an attitudinal change by the administration in respect to the students." 
The delegation indicated that parietals itself was not the main Issue of the protest. "we feel that parietals would have the ~reatest support and imr,act With the student body, ' explained Wildenhain, "Morals are dic­tated to us by the administration. When it comes down to personal issues, we don't have any free­dom of choice. By abolishing parietals we are fighting this restriction of freedom.'' 
"The students comprise the University, not the alumni, and so we are the most affected by the J?Olicies and actions of the admmistration,'' said Brian Donnelly, Carroll treasurer. 
"We ap~reciate and want (other halls') support, but we need each hall to pass resolutions on parietals, too," stated Mike 
Fox, Carroll resident. "Any 
intellegent and concerned stu­

dent should be interested in 
making this choice at least on the 

hall level. " 
Carroll residents Ron Haynes, Dan Bell, and Pat Tennant indi­cated that they would like to see other halls Join Carroll with similar protests in mass support. They also encouraged other hall councils to draft letters on the student rights issues and mail them to University officials. 
"We have sent out letter to Fr. Hesburgh, Fr. Van Wolvlear, Dean Roemer, Provost O'Meara, each trustee, the heads of all the alumni organizations, each rector, and to the campus in hopes that other halls would follow our lead,'' Wildenhain 
explained. 
''If we learn to make decisions and choose our values here, where we have ample counselors, priests, and faculty to assist us, we will be better prerared for the outside world,'' Bel explained. "If we don't learn to make these decisions now, we will have to make them after we graduate 
Midshipmen 

awardflag 'to Lynes 
At ceremonies marking the 
transfer of command of Notre 
Dame's 350-member NROTC 
unit, Midshipman Randal J. 
Wittry last week handed die 
battalion flag over to ) erome M. 
Lynes, nextyear's battalion com­
manding officer. 
Commanding Officer Col. 
Robert P. Johnson and William 
Burke, assistant to the Provost, 
presented Academic Achieve­
ment Stars, to 42 midshipmen at 
the ceremony. This award 
honors those achieving a 3.25 
grade point average last semes­
ter, high military aptitude marks, 
involvement in University and 
NROTC activities, and good phy­

siCal fitness. 
without any positive assistence. '' 
Tennan.t agreed, saying, "What we're doing is trying to guage the attitude of the rest of the campus. What we'd like to fmd out is if everyone feels the same way about administrative policies as we do. A vote to 

·abolish parietals and a letter 
stating the purpose of that vote 
would be such an indication.'' 
Fox concurred "We want to 
know ifa sense of dissent we feel 
is prevalent on campus also, and 
if this sense is strong enough to 
initiate action,'' he said. 
The delegation stated that Carroll leaders are presently formulating Elans for an organ­ized protest if campus-wide sup­port 1s attained, but declined to elaborate on those plans. 
Nature of Historical Narrative'' with lectures by Philip Gleason and Thomas Fern. The series concludes Thursday with lectures by Charles Primus and Joseph Rushton on ''The Raismg of Lazarus: A ) ewish View." 
All lectures begin at 3:30p.m. in the Art Gallery. 
I 5:15 mass and supper r':W I 
I ilik&hl~ ~II I \ and every friday-~= j 


~---------------' 


Staff Meeting 
Sunday, February 4 
7:00 
1st floor Iafortune everyone welcome 


The Observer Friday, February 2, 1979·-page 4 

MCAT.urrDT'.a••,):~l 3 
PCAT•BRE•OCAT·VAT· SAT 
1MB I, II.Ill·ECFMO·FLEX·VQE 
NATL DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS Flexible Progrema & Hours 
Visit Our Centers & See For Yourself Why We Make The Difference 
LSAT, GRE GMAT~~-H. Classes EDUCATIONAL c~TEA
• 
TCST PREPARATION
now form1ng 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 

call 291·3150 


r--February 2 & 3-·Fri. and Sat.\-­1 7,9, and 11 
I I I I I 
~ 
1 
!
.
.. 
I 
I 
I 
I 
J Sponsored by I SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION admission Sl.OO 

__j 
.__--~Catroll Hall SMC 





John Paul ends Mexican journey 
VATICAN CITY [API--A weary sunburned Pope ] ohn Paul 11 returned home from Latin American yesterday. He defend­ed his pleas to the church there to stay out of politics but help the poor get better land, food, educ­ation and wages. 
Asked at the Rome airport if the directives contained contra­dictions, the pope said, "If you wish to find them, you can always find them.'' 
On his visit, he chatted a course of non-political activism for the church m Latin America, where nearly half of the world's 750 million Roman Catholics live. 
But Vatican analysts here say it may be some time before the full impact of the trip is known. 
The analysts said as Pope Paul VI's appeal at Medellin, Columbta, in 1968 was followed by a call for more activism by bishops, Pope John Paul's mes­sage will be followed up. 
From the airport, a motorcycle escort whisked the pontiff's limousine through Rome to the Vatican, where an enthusiastic crowd of 3,000 in St. Peter's ~quare showered it with carnat­
IOns. 
Children and black-robed nuns tossed flowers and carried streamers reading "Welcome Back Herald of Peace'' in Italian and Spanish. 
. After his welcome, the p<>pe 
' went to his apartment window and recited a prayer to the Madonna of Guadalupe, the patron saint of Mexico and Latin 
Watcli The Secrets of Fatima a 13 part T.V. series 
9AM 
Sunday, Jan. 28 thru Sunday April 22 
WNDU-TV 
Channel 16 
B€€R

spectals! 
PBR 
24 lOOS€ 
$5.89 
natuRal liGht ·6 pac $1.69 
Olympta 
24lOOS€ 
$6.59 

31 €Z maRket 
u.S.3tno~th 
at auten Roab 

America. He prayed that ''the since becoming pope Oct. 16. He 
many hopes that have been stopped overnight in the raised by this travel may not be Dommican Republic. In Mexico wasted." he attended the opening of the 
The 53-year-old pontiff set out Latin American Bishops Con­Jan. 25 on his first trip abroad ference. 
DAti  AI.  ll  IG  SC  1M  .-&  Notre Dam~ Placement Bureau  
Feb 12 ~  Chase Manhattan Bank MBA with Fin concentration.  
Equitable of Iowa Cancelled.  
X X  .X X X X  X X  Greyhound Corp MBA. How.et Turbi~e Colleonenta Corp BH in Met, HE, ChE. Johnaon Controla, Inc. II in HE, EE, teMp Scl. Kelloss Co ll in ME, EE, MEIO. K.elaey-Hayea Co BBA with Induatrial couraes. 8 in HE. U.S. Air Force Ill) in all Enar dbdplinea, Hath, eo.p Sci. u.s. CVpa-. Co LiP Acct. U1l1nreal CO!Ipaaiea BIA. aDd MIA.  
Feb 13 Tuea.  X X X X  General Moton Corporation Dtvieioru~: Cadillac Kotor Car. I in Coap Sci or Math. Bydra-Hatic. I in Acc:t, Mgt. MBA vith Acct or Fin back&roUDd or concentration. Guide. B ia Acct • Pia, Mst • C:O.p Sd. AC-Delco. B ia IGL.t. Acct 1 Fin. M:. Spark Plus. B in Acct. MBA with Acct hkard/eoactrn. Delco Raly. B in Acct. MBA with Acct bkgrd/conctrn. B in Hkt, Mgt. Fin.  
X X X X  GH Hotor Parts. B in Acct. GHC Truck ' Coach. B in Mgt. terex. B in Acct, Kat. MBA with Acct or Hst bnk­grotmd or cmcentratton. Chevrolet Motor. B in Ac:ct. 11BA with Acct bkatd cmctr.. W, R. Crac:e ' Co,..._  
laper ln.auranc:e Coa B in ChE. CE, HE. MEIO.  
X  X  Hiles Labontoriea , Inc: BH in ChE, Coap Sci, Chem.  
X  Kont&a.et'Y Elevator Co B in Hkt. Pfst. (Chanae fro. Kanual).  
Ohio Edt.on Co B in EE, ME, ChE. Oster. Division of Sunbeam 8 in Kkt, Fin.  
Feb 13/14 Tu/Wed.  X  X  Otis Elevator Co B in all En&r dtadpUnes. Reliance Electric Co B in EE, HE. Sie•~!Rs-Allia Inc 8 in EE, HE. U.S.· ArmY Corps of Ensineera. Chicaso Dhtrict BM in CE. PeEW&cel. Division of Johnson ' Johnson All BBA. BaDkers Life of Dea KoiDes BK in Lib. Aru and Bua. Ad.  
X  Chic:aso Tribune Changed to Mar. 8  
X  X  Clark Eguie-nt CO B in ME, HEIO, Acct.  
X  X  Indiana State Hiabv!y c.-inion BK in CE. National Steel Corp 8 in Mitt, ttJt, Fin, Econ. Hht. Psych, Soc, Speech- 
X  X  llorthern Indiana Public Service Co B in !E, ME, Chi. Procter ' a-ble. Advertiaing-Brand Hanaseaent BBA and MBA. Proc:ter 6 c.ble. Acc:ouatina and Finance 8 io Lib Aru and lu Ad, HBA. All with atrooa· interest in Acc:ounting ud Finance. ·  
Feb 14/15 Wed/Thun.  Procter 6 c.ble. Salaa Hanaa-.ent B in Lib. Arta and Bus. Ad. MBA.  
Feb 15 Thura.  X  X  ARCO/Pob!er&, la.c MBA with Mitt conc:entration. liT lleaearch -Institute aH in EE, HE. H io eo.p Set. tm in Ol£,  
Iova-Illiooia Gu and Electric Co MBA with bacltaround or CODcentration in Pin, !con or C:O.p Sci.  
X  X  X  Mobil Oil Co I !n Lib. Arta and Bu. Ad.  B in ME, ChE, Cl.  
Morriaon-laudaen I in CE, HE. Motorola .. Autc.otive Products Dtv IK in tt!, E!.  
Motorola -~ic:atioaa Croup IK in PIE.  
Northrop Corp B in EE. Parker Hannifin Corp B ia HE, HEIO, !1!.  
Feb 15/16 Thura/Fri. Feb 16 ~  X  X  Wallac:e l~.&t~iae.. loraa Changed to Karch 13 Wbeelabrator-Frye Inc: All BBA vtth interest in Data Proc::eaaing. General Electric: Co 8 in Lib. Arta, Bu. Ad. and Math. CitY of Chic:yo. Dept. of Public:: Worka!X in CE, ·ME, EE.  
X  X X X  X X X  ~~~!.f­a in Acct. MBA with Acct bk&rd or conc::tm. Goodyear The ' Rubb-er Co B in ChE, HI and Chea. Natiooal Security Aaency 1M 1n EE, .c.-p Sc:i, Matb/Stata. 8K 1n Sla•Jic., !tear Eutern aDd All ian Laaauaae•. Plua those peraona who have taken aDd pa..ed the NSA Profeuional Qualiftc:ation Teat. Stepc Cbeaical Co  

BK iD CbE an4 a.... 
X Unioa. El•ctrtC Co IN in EE, IU, MI!:IO, HEllO. 
-...
:·_:· 
. t ..... 
:.;· .... 
-:·.· .· 
. ... ;, .:~ 

The Observer 
Answers to your questions Junior Parents' Weekend  
Q. Can I still obtain tickets for the weekend? A. Yes. Ticket applications are available in LaFortune at the Student Activities office. Fill out the form and leave it and a check with the secretary at Student Activities. Q. Are additional tickets available for the Saturday night dinner? A. Yes, but 1800 tickets have already been sold and only a limited number are left. Reservations are on a first-come ftrst-serve basis. Students sending in requests for additional tickets should note that this is the second request. Q. When are table arrangements being made for the dinner? A. Reservations are being made on Feb. 13, 14 and 15 in the LaFortune Ballroom from 12 noon to 1 p.m. and 3 to 5 p.m. Only one student from a group making reservations needs to be present, but Juniors are asked to try to fill an entire table of 18. Tables will be assigned on a ftrst-come-ftrst-serve basis. In addition, all hall rectors have been invited and may be included in seating reservations. Persons with questions should call Tom McGrath, Anne Talluto, Jeff Schloemer or Oare Stack. Q. What time do the College Workshops begin? A. The workshops will begin on Saturday morning at 9:30, instead of the origmally scheduled time of 10:30. They should end by noon. Q. What takes place at the workshops? A. The workshops begin with a 30-40 minute presentation by the Dean of the College. An intermission will follow, with, coffee and doughnuts available. Students and their parents can then meet with department chairmen and professors from the students' majors in nearby rooms. Juniors should encourage their professors to attend the workshops, especially professors which the students want their parents to meet. Any questions, please call any of the following representatives: George Peirats (AL), Julie Lennon (Eng.), Jon Nolan (Sci.), and Mike O'Reilly (BA). Q. Why does the LaSalle basketball game conflict with the dinner? A. TheJPW committee is aware of the conflict but the game cannot be rescheduled because it will be televised regionally and the contract for the 1V rights was signed last summer. TheJPW committee does not have access to tickets for the ~arne. Q. Who is setting up receptions in the dormitones after the President's Dinner? A. Contact your hall president, your junior class representa­tive, or Ken Kadleck. Q. Will receptions be set up for Juniors living off campus? A. Yes. Ramon Marcia is in charge of the reception for off-campus students and should be contacted for further information. Q. Who is providing the music fo1· ·the Friday night Coclrtaii-Dmce? ,A The dance will run from 9:30 to 1 a.m. in the Monogram Room of the ACC. A large dance floor will be set up. The Notre Dame Jazz Combo will provide the music. Questions: call Patty Curtain, Laura Falherty, or Sue Sebold. Students with specific questions can contact any of the students working on the Juniors Parents Weekend or Mike Kenney at 3592.  

CDC to again sponsor life planning workshops 
by Mary Beth Connor 

The Saint Mary's Counseling and Career Development Center will once again sponsor a series of life plarming workshops, accordin~ to Betsy Twitchell, assistant director of the Center. 
The six workshops are open to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students of all years and majors. 
''Career development is an ongoing process that should start as early as the freshman year and go on to the t~b sc;arch dur~g the senior year, Twttchell satd. 
''Although a workshop like Decision Making would be mo~t appropriate to a freshman who ts in the beginning stages of her career development, it would also benefit many seniors,'' she added. 
The workshops will be led ~y various members of the Samt Mary's division of Student Affatrs. Mary Ann Daly, resi­dence director of McCandless Hall, will give a skills. ~dentifica­tion and Resume Wntmg work­shop Sunday. 
An introduction to the Center's 
services and library wil be con­
ducted by Pat McGinn, director 
of the Center, and senior volun­
teer Sandy Parnell. 
Co-assistant directors of the 
CCDC, Twitch~ll and J?an 
Poweff, wt11 lead an Imervtew 
Skills worshop Wednesday and a 
Job Search 'Workshop Thursday. 
The subject, "What Can I Do With a Liberal Arts Major?,'' will be discussed Feb. 15 by Jean Gorman, director of Financial 
Aid. 
According to Twitchell, "The workshops are designed to meet the needs ofthe major portions of the student body as expressed in personal interviews. '' 
"We feel that the group setting is best for this because it allows students to communicate with other students about common concerns. In this way, students realize that they are not alone in their questions," she said. 
Most of the workshops will be given in the Student Affairs wing of LeMans hall. Interested students can sign up there. 
Seniors sell Cinnabar's tix 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's senior classes are spons­oring a semi-formal at Cinnabars this Sunday from 7 p.m. to 12 
a.m. Tickets may be purchased in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dining_~alls tonight dur­ing dinner. Off-campus students may purchase tickets in the Notre Dame Senior Class office in the­basement of Lafortune from 
12:30 to 1:15 today . 

Friday, February 2, 1979 -page 5 
• • • Support, apathy 
[continued from page 1) 
parietals q~estion. We urge Fr. Theodore Hesburgh {University President( to pass the CLC proposal and reduce parietals to a hall offense." 
Bernard Striegel, Zahm Hall president, stated, ''Zahm Hall supports the position that each residence hall should have the right to determine its own visitation hours.'' 
Alumni Hall President Jack Prenderast stated that the topic of parietals has been involved in ''general discussion'' in the hall and would be reviewed in depth at the hall council meeting next 
Thursday. . . Michelle Kelly, Farley Hall prestdent, clatmed that Farley Hall members did not "take the abolition of parietals seriously.'' O'Hare said, "I think Grace went about the parietals issue the right way. Instead of a blanket abolishment of parietals, we reasoned-out a good argument and why for our actions.'' 
The emphasis of the (anti-parietal) movement should be on the idea of the hall community. Each hall should be able to determine thdr own 

guidelines. We could then gain maturity by 
making our own decisions," he continued. 
Marty Paulsen, HPC Executive Coordinator, 
commented, ''The ball is rolling. People definitely 
want to see changes. The panetals rule is simply 
immaturity on the part of the University." 
Judicial Coordinator Jayne Rizzo interpreted ilie1 parietals protest as ''an expression of defiance and' frustration'' with the Campus Life Council system. ''That system has proved dosed, so maybe this 'outside expression is good," she said. 
Andy McKenna, student body )?fesident, viewed 
the movement as students 'looking for an 
articulation of why parietals exist." He felt that 
Hesburgh's reply to the CLC parietals appeal 
would provide this. 
HPC Chairman Chuck Delgrande stated that the 
HPC' s position on the movement would be one 
"comnutted to acting on the student's behalf. We 
will meet next Tuesday to see what the halls feel, 
and then formulate some organized form of action." . 

Gambling law brings graft to Maine 
AUGUSI'A,Maine [API--Maine's nickel-and-dime gambling law was passed to benefit cub scouts, churches and other charities. Six years later, it has opened the door to a multi-million dollar operation with salesmen for Nevada companies pushing slot­machines in bars, hotels and bowling alleys. 
Today, more than 700 "non­profit organizations" are licensed 
Gallery exhibits Flanigan 's art 
Drawings and bronze pieces by Fr. James F. Flanigan, chairman of the Notre Dame Art Department, are being exhibited at the O'Shaughnessy Hall Art Gallery through Feb. 18. 
The drawings, in charcoal, conte crayon and graphite, demonstrate Flanigan's con­tinued interest in the human figure as a means of visual expression. 
Employing several media, Fr. Flanigan has achieved not only a variety in surface, but also change in atmosphere. All of the drawings have been done directly from life and selecting from 150 to 200 drawings he has mounted the show to give an ''uncluttered, clean presenta­tion.'' 
An additional medium is represented by the bronze pieces made by the lost wax process. These sculptures, religious in their content, re­flect the same concern for the simplication of form found in many of Fr. Flanigan's draw­to run one-armed bandits, wheels 

of fortune, poker games, keano, 
craps. 

And of about 400 licensed slot 
machines, about 150 are set up in 
bars and hotels -even through . they are sponsored by 
"charities. " 

Slot -machine proliferation has 
been especially heavy in the last 
six months, helping gambling to 
become a $17-million business in 
Maine last year, according to 
State Police records. 

Of that total, slot-machine 
distributors from as far away as 
Nevada took $4.2 million out of 
the state, according to State Sen. 
Richard H. Pierce, who wants the 
one-armed bandits restricted. 

Maine's new commissioner of 
Public Safety, Arthur Stilpen, 
says he has no evidence that 
organized crime is behind the 
expansion, though he concedes 
that g~bling. "may have bur-


the BuOOy Rtch .BanO In ConceRt 
monbay, ~es. 5 a~tan htqh School Spm 
311 s. loqan ffiJshawaka, JnO. 


ro~ •nro~matton
ttckets $5 abvance 

call 259-5257
$6 at boo~ 

geoned beyond what the legislat­ure thought it ought to become ..". 


Crawford to present concert 
The Saint Mary's music de­partment will sponsor a harpsi­chord concert by Lisa Crawford at 3 p.m. Sunday. The program will 4tclude works by Johann .Sebas': nan Bach, Francois Couperin and Domenico Scarlatti. 
The concert, which is part of the music department's 1978-79 Harpsichord Concen Series, will take place in the Little Theatre in Moreau Hall on the campus. Admission is free. 
.. 

.. 
-------~~--­
--~-r---~­

The Observer 



Lafartun• Ballraam !I:!IDpm -1:DDam Sat. F•bruary !lrd 
FREE ADMISSION 

Sponsored by the student union-student government 
KINGS CELLAR 

31 South 291-2600 mcKinley 233­9466
mishawaka 287­7744 , Ironwood 272-7144 


Friday, February 2, 1979 -page 6 
Willkes term abortion 'greatest tragedy' in lecture 
by]ohn McDermott 

Calling abonion the "greatest tragedy of the century,'' Dr. and Mrs. Jack C. Willke, internation­al experts on human sexuality and abonion, gave a lecture to a near capacity crowd last night in the library auditorium. 
Titled 'Abonion: Is it Ri~t to Choose? Medical and Social Aspects,'' the two hour presenta­tion, which included a lecture, a question and answer session, and a fdm of a suction abonion, touched many aspects of the abonion issue and was enthusias­tically received by the audience. 
The Wtllkes began their talk by pointing out that "Abonion hasn't always been with us. In most of Western Christendom, abonion was always regarded as a pronounced and evil crime." 
''If a woman ruid an abonion in Spain, for example,-she was forbidden confession even on her deathbed, M they said. 
But all this changed. ''With the demand for new freedom, women's rights and new scientif­ic technology, having abonion became a woman's right," Mrs. Willke said. 
The Willkes said that 'the pro-abonionist movement knew they had to get around the argument that this blob being aboned was human life, and so they started a debate of words. 
Town &Country 
EXCLUSIVE 
LlMIIBD FRIDAY-FEB.2 
NO PASSES ALLOWED REDUCED ADMISSION 
TICKErS ACCEPTED ALL SEATS 14.00 TIMES 2-4-6-B-10 

"kwasn't having an abonion, it was tenninating a pregnancy; it wasn't a human, it was a fetuS, a mass of cells,'' the Willkes said. 
''They tried to convince the American .Public that they weren't killing babies. They hoped that it would seep into the American culture and it did,'' Mrs. Willke said. 
Calling the pro-aboitionist' s tactics a "sell job," the Willkes also said that the pro-abortionists r.tayed on religious prejudice. 
'They claimed the Right to Life movement was just a Catholic ~oup trying to force their moral­tty down the throats of other Americans," they said. 
The Willkes referred to a recent Washington Post article that further emphasized their charge of anti-Catholicism. ''Over 100,000 people attended the]an. 22 Right to Life march to Washington and maybe 50,000 of them were under 25, yet the Post called this turnout the result of Washin~on, D.C. Catholic girls academtes giving their students the day off to march," Dr. Willke said. 
Mrs. Willke noted that calling a movement "Catholic" auto­matically marshalls a large num­ber of people against it. "Anti­Catholisism is the anti-semitism of our time," she said. The Willkes called America's legisla­tion on abonion "the most ghast­ly in the world': and compared it with the Dred Scott dectsion of 1857. Both that case and Roe v. Wade, the 1973 decision legaliz­ing abortion on demand, were 7 to 2 decisions. 
In the Scott decision, blacks were considered non-persons by the Supreme Coun, and were property of their owners, who could choose to buy, sell, or kill them. Abolitionists were told that they could not impose their morality on slave owners, and slavery remained legal. 
In the case ofRoe v. Wade, the Supreme Coun ruled that the unborn were not persons and that they were the property of their mothers. The mothers could choose to either keep or kill the fetuS and pro-lifers were told they should not try to impose therr morality on others. 
"It took over 100 years, but the abolitionists held out and slavery is no longer legal. We won't compromise either," the Willkes said. 
In their slide presentation, the Willkes offered scientific proof that a fetuS is alive and human. They showed how, at only 11 weeks, the fetuS can breath, swallow, urinate, move about, hear and even learn while inside the mother's womb. 
"Human life begins at concep­cion," Mrs. Willke said. "At that moment a being, totally different from the body of either the mother or the father, exists. It has a different genetic makeup, 46 chromosomes, it is human and alive. The only thing needed is food and the time to grow into an adult human.'' 
"Abonion is not a simple procedure," Dr. Willke said. He stated that many ofthe risks in an abortion, such as hemorrha~ing, perforation, infection, a higher risk of miscartiages and pre­mature births in the future, menstrual disturbances, adhe­sions, sterilization, and even death, are never mentioned to the patient in an abonion clinic. "ltts more dangerous to take the pill for one year than to carry a pregnancy to term,'' he said. 
"Is the fetuS alive, human, growing? The answer to all three questions is yes. The question is will we give him his civil rights. Will we protect him as we did g,efore 1973," they asked. 


.--------------------­
The Observer Friday, Fe~ruary 2, 1979 -page 7 
~---------------~~-----·-

LaFortune to present 
'disco fever' 
by Ma~~reen Heraty 
Student Government will pre sent "Saturday Night Fever at LaFonune" tomorrow from 9:30 
p.m. to 1 a.m. in an effort to malc:e students aware of the improved facilities available at LaFonunc Student Center. 
Snidents can play ping pong and _pool free of charge while cnjoymg the renovations in the basement of LaFonunc. On the main floor, canoons will be shown in the Little Theatre and students can take advantage of special sales on icc cream and beverages offered in the remod­eled Huddle. 
Disco, played by the group Smith & Co., will be featured in the LaFonune Ballroom. In­sturctors from Anhur Murray Dance Studios will give disco lessons at no charge. 
I n addition, students can tour the Student Union and Student Government offices. Andy McKenna, student body presi­dent, and Mike Roohan, student body vice-president, and other members of Student Union and Student Government will be pre­sent to answer any questions students may have about the two organizations. 
··we wish to promore r:he use of LaFortune as a student center," Student Government Social Commissioner Mary Schmidtlein explained. "We hope that this activities night will alert students to the convenience and availibility of LaFortune and encourage them to create a social atmosphere here." 
The expansion of the Huddle and the improvement of the first floor of LaFortune represent other attempts to make LaFortune a meetin~ place for students, Schmidtlem said. 
''With the disco in the ballroom, we mean to remind students of the availability of the ballroom for social events," she added. 
CDC  initiates  company 'interviews ;  
Scheduled dates  Companies  Future positions I  Required major Iminor  
Feb. 6 (fues.)  Gen'l Telephone Co. of Ind. Electronic Data Services-I  Mana~em~nt. Trainees' Systems ngtneer Systems Development Systems Program  Business BBA with computer SCience Minor or exposure to coduter systems, math or physi sci­ence  
Feb. 7 (Wed.)  Hewitt Associates  Data Administrators Actuarial Assistants Data Base Assistants Admin. Specialists, Plan Pro­grammers •  Math, Comp. Sci., Business  
Feb. 8 (fhurs.)  PPG Industries  Chemist/Auditor Controller  Chern/ Acct/Math  
Fe~. 9 (Fri.) .  Gantos Cancelled  


. 

Haywood serves as Saint Mary's delegate to recent 42nd annual SNEA convention 
by Donna Trauscht 
Lori Haywood, vice-president 
of her .chapter of the Indiana Student Education Association at Saint Mary's, served as a dele­gate to the 42nd Annual Con­vention of the Student National Education Association,SNEA, the largest stuaem orgaruzation in the country held ] an. 24-27 in 
San Diego. 
The 109 SNEA delegates re­
presented nearly 50,000 college 
students across the nation pre­
paring to become teachers. 
Junior council plans meeting 
A mandatory meeting for all representatives of the ] unior Advisory Council is scheduled for 4 pm. Sunday in the basement of Farley Hall. All T-shirt and formal returns should be p~esented at the meeting. 


Haywood was elected by the state as one of two delegates to represent Indiana. 
The delegates voted to enact such issues as back legislation to provide legal status and liability protection for student teachers, support for a bilingual­multicultural education program, and the support of at least one-third funding of public educ­ation by the federal government. 
These decisions will orient SNEA' s elected leaders as they seek discussions with decision­makers in the U.S. Congess, 

:J 
.,Gl c 
::» 
~evernmental agencies, and nat­
tonal associations,  all  of which  
have  an  impact  on  national  
education policy.  

Participants at the convention had the opponunity to attend various workshops on migrant education, child abuse, parlia­mentary procedures, the U.N. Year of the Child, assertiveness training, and public relations. 
Haywood, a senior who is double-majoring in elementary education and psychology, ex­plained, ''It is very important to have a strong preprofessional organization lili:e -SNEA." She also said, "It was a good exper­ience to view the national con­cerns on education as opposed to the local concerns of the state." 

At the convention, she noticed that many ofthe delegates voiced their personal concerns rather than those of the state on many of the issues considered. Because Haywood and Debora Mitchell, the other Ind.iana delegate, were very conscientious about repre­
senting  the  state's  views,  
Haywood  said  Indiana  became  
highly recognized.  

en Why Not Spend Y out c2.. 
en ~ SPRING. Steak On The en,., 
a..

Sunny Beaches of Flotida c ::» 
CD 

~---------------------------------------------------,.
en

Buses leave ND citcle Sat. match 17 
at 8am. Ditect to Ft. Laudetdale, Fla. 
yout lodging will be at the Holiday ·Inn Oceanside located on the sttip tight on the beach 
.YOU'te ftee to enjo.Y .YOUtseif untU 8am match 23 at which time the buses will 
take you to Otlando and 
Disne.Ywotld. After ovetnlte lodging in Otlando the tetutn ttip leaves at 8am match 24 aulvlngat the ND citcle Sun. match 25. 

PRICE: S209 
pet petson 
ptice Includes: all ttanspoltation 
Lodging Otlando., Ft. Laudetdale Disne.YWOtld Ticket 
call 234-2196 
24 houts 
en
,.
• 
3 
p 
Editorials 

Friday, February 2, 1979 -page 8 
P. O._Box Q 
involvement in lnPIRG. Students before starting careers. By doing 
InPIRG benefits 
control the group, not the Ad­research and }?resenting results ministration. Students elect a to public attentton, students gain Board of Directors who will run sense of power, and perhaJ.>Sstudent body the group and decide upon realize that they have a voice 10 research topics from the sugges­decisions. As the petition drive tions of students and faculty. continues this semester, we at Dear Editor: One future goal of InPIRG is InPIRG hope to continue inform­
possible course credit for re­ing the students of the manyFor the past few months the search projects. As all students benefits lnPIRG can provide.Notre Dame student body has know, there is more to college I would like to thank my fellow 
been aproached by a group of education than just books. 
petitioners and the thousands of 
students campatgnin~ for 
Research projects are an ex­students who have signed theInPIRG, the Indiana Pubtc Inter­cellent way for students to 
ex­InPIRG Petition for their support. est Research Group. As a pand their education beyond the The InPIRG Campaign has
campaign participant I have ob­classroom. 
provided me with a valuableserved how the campaign has 
In the course of petitioning I learning experience, one that willaffected the student body and have often been asked why I am continue through the work of
petitioners, as well as how it has working so diligently to get lnPIRG at Notre Dame~affected me. 
students to sign the InPIRG 
When the campaign was initia­petition. The objectives of Daniel]. Smith ted this past November, I had 
InPIRG are worthwhile because 
uneasy feelings about approach­they can greatly benefit the 
Social awareness
ing other students and asking 
Uruversity and student body.
them to sign the InPIRG Petition, InPIRG provides students with 
a petition that is difficult to the opportunity of applying the an integral part explain in a few brief words. As skills they learn in college to real the campaign progressed, my life situations. College courses of education uneasiness subsided and I de­provide most of the background
veloped a better understanding for careers, while InPIRG pro­
Dear Editor: 
of the possibilities InPIRG has for jects can supplement a collegeNotre Dame. education by offering ftrst-haod The Social Concerns Film Fes­
In discussing the topic of 
experience. tival has tried to do much this InPIRG with students I have· InPIRG was created to give past week to raise the social 
found that many students do not students an opportunity to see consciousness of Notre Dame realize the extent of student how the "real world" operates students. The two editorials 
Sexfacts only speculation 
''when your own emptiness is all that's protection of anonymity, most people would probably give information concerning their basic
getting through 
sex habits (e.g. whether they have it, how much, 
there comes a point when you're not sure 
what kind). But--please note that one of the
why you're still talking ... " 
''givens,'' emotional intensity, is a purely
-jackson_Browne 
subjective consideration, and an important one. 
Though love and sex may be separate entities, we 

I'm not exactly sure why anybody's talking. cannot deny the relationship they often have to one About sex, that is, sex on our campus, and the sex another. It seems necessary to consider emotion or roles we're either supposedly {>laying or the roles the lack thereof. Could all of our ND interviewees we supposedly should be play10g or the roles we ably and dearly describe the emotional level of shouldn't be playing at all. We talk and we argue their sexual experience, be it superficial or and we criticize, and through it all, I get this meaningful? nagging feeling that not all of us know what we're Being wary of generalizations, I can answer only talking about .. .leastwise, I'm not sure that I do. for myself. I would have difficUlty speaking about Let me explain ... such intensely personal things, not so much 
Chris Stewart's essay in Tuesday's Observer because I fear embarrassment or reprehension, contained a statistical "guess" which inadver­rather because I simply do not understand them. tently threw light on the ND sex issue. Stewart I am young and ignorant. I am no longer estimated the percentage of female virgins on innocent, but I am inexperienced and naive, campus to be "85 percent minimum" and male stumbling through a psychological realm of virstns to be ''around 90 percent.'' These generalizations and stereotypes, father's urging esttmations seem to me as inaccurate as Brian and mother's warning, crude jokes and natural Hogan's assertion that "the vast majority of ND desires. In this state, how can I tell anyone how I women are virgins.'' But, whether the ftgures are really feel about my sexuality? I am confused. It true or not, the fact that neither I nor Stewart nor seems now that I will be able to "tell" only one Hogan can substantiate our claims hints that we person, whom I love and who loves me, and are trying to objectively argue something for which then words will become empty symbols that I the "givens" are either non-existent or specula­fmally disdain for action. tive. Am I saying that we should not talk about sex at 
By "~ivens," I mean the simple, hard facts Notre Dame? No. I believe that freer communica­concernmg our sexual habits: virginity rate (how tion concerning sex is necessary in an oft­many have sex and how many don't), quantity (how repressive and stiflin~ sexual atmosphere. Only often do the sexually active among us do it), kind through expression will we come to know some of (is it petting, intercourse, oral sex, what?} and the ''givens'' and to more fully understand our own emotional intensity (the degree of love and sharing individual sexualities. But I propose that such involved). Argwng a collective sexual attitude expression be done with an awareness that the witho11t knowing individual sexual habits is like "facts" about ND sex are presently speculation at arguing college football without knowing players, best, and shouldn't be used to attack, categorize, coaches, and won-lost records. Any such argument or demean others who might speculate differently. is superficial and ultimately unsound--not philo­They have feelings too. And, that it begin with a sophy, but wind-filled speculation that can hurt serious look inward, a careful (if perplexin~) people with broad generalizations and insensitive reading of the sexual and emotional story within categorizations. yourself, so that you may know the nature of such 
How can we obtain these ".givens?" Surveys or stories·, and understand the difficulty with which polls are sometimes used, but their random, others read and tell their own. tmpersonal nature often renders them incomplete In writing this, I have read and told a small part or faulty. Perhaps the most credible way to obtain of my own story. I'm surer now than before that such ''givens'' would be to conduct extensive my words hold at least some truth. Let us speak personal interviews with every person on campus. freely of our most natural wants and needs--but let But that would be impractical. us speak with intelligence, consideration, and 
Suppose for a minute, though, that we could do self-knowledge, so that our ,emptiness' does not such interviews--what would come of them? A lot come seeping through and isolate each of us in our written by Bill McGurn and Dr. James Stewart, which The Observer ran last week, also served as enlightening view­points on what seems to be quite a problem on Notre Dame's campus: a lack of social aware­ness and concern on the parts of many Notre Dame students. 
Dr. Stewart's editorial called for an "institutionalization of a concern for social justice," which, indeed, constitutes a necessity if this university truly aspires to offer a well-rounded education that allows intellectual and spiritual growth. As an institution founded on Christian ideals, Notre Dame assumes a responsibility to provide students with an educated aw,areness of the hidden problems that exist in the world tOday and, moreover, to show what each individual can do to help solve these problems. 
Recently, a friend of mine who graduated from N.D. in 1977 commented on the role Father Hesburgh should play in helping to increase social consciousness on this campus. He believed, as do I, that a mao who is so involved in attaining human rights around the world and who is so strongly committed to making social awareness an attri­bute of all Christian people has an obligation, as president of the University, to return his great knowledge and experience to the 6500 students who attend this institution. Notre Dame needs to become a more collectively aware body of men and women. Our goal should be, as Bill McGurn so aptly states in his feature, "not only to live a good life, but to spread that goodness as far as we can." 
Classes on social problems taught by people with Father Hesbur~' s insishts, seminars on social equality and social· justice, real learning experiences like the Urban Plun~e: these are just some of the things that are being done to instill a higher level of social awareness in Notre Dame students and, I believe, should be continued and expan­ded in order that we can create a more social conscious environ­ment. 
Susan Kearney 
In support of Digger Phelps 
Dear Editor: 

Our coach Digger Phelps came under sustained attack in the Friday issue of the Observer. 1 would like to point out that he is 
· · · · d fi thb

e10g cnttctZe · or e same 
dynamic behavior that stamps his 
personality as the on-court maes­tro of the top ranked Fightin' Irish, and as the colorful genius whose orchestration of the nation's fteatest fans has helped 
to prope the cagers to that top
spot. 

Despite this round of abuse, take not that Phelps is still one of the most po.Pular people on campus. And ts he far from right in pleadioe; for some ?fthe raucous s'upJ>Ort when the Irish falter on thetr home court? When the Dons are in the process of shaving a huge lead, that is no time for us to sit on our hands. 
Granted, UCLA's WtZard of Westwood has been a great 
Phelps supposed to submerge his own ebullient (and successful) personality to copy the ~e of Wooden? I say, no way. Digger may have appeared a bit overen­thusiastic, but he is perhaps the greatest coach in college ball; his team's personality and the per­sonality of its fans are different ­from California's, and perhaps one day his name will be men­
tioned in the same breath as Wooden's 
Ronald Hyde 
Grace Hall Council clarifies stand 
Dear Editor, 
"Because a genuine and com­plete expression of love through sex requires a commitment to a total living and sharing together of two {>Crsons in marriage, the Universtty believes that sexual union should occur only in marr­iage." 
"Coeducation allows men and women to contribute to one another's education and to form genuine friendships. It is for these reasons that the l>rogram of limited parietal visttatton in dormitory student rooms is sup­poned by the University. In the proper context visitation can facilitate personal and social development and enhance the quality of life on our campus .... When functioning properly the dormitory visitation programs should be regulated by stu­dents." 
The above is an exerpt from Du Lac's University Rules and Regu­lations, sections 8 and 9. In our attempts to analyze the position taken by Carroll Hall on the abolishment of parietals; Grace Hall endorses the spirit in which this action was taken. However, we would like to see the issue placed in proper perspective. 
According to Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary parietals are defmed as: "regulations governing the visiting privileges ofmembers of the opposite sex in campus dormitories.'' In inter­pret10g rule#9 we ftnd the admin­tstration in favor of parietal visitation, but in a limited fash­ion. We see, therefore, not an abolition of parietals, but an unlimited partetal visitation as the main thrust of this move­ment. For it is said that, ''when 
functioning properly the dormi­tory visitation programs should be regulated by students.'' 
BY-this actton, we mean to clarify the campus wide coofus­
ion between social visitation and 
sexual activity. In a mature, Catholic community social visita­cion is not synonymous with .. sexual activity. It is not our purpose to upset existing moral 
standards.
W £ · ifi d · 
!:! ee1 we . ~e JUSt te 10 pass10g the monon of Feb..1. 1979; ~ecause the Campus Life Co1;10cil. (<Lg ha:s ~eady taken actton 10 this ~ectton. .They !mve s~ught to br~g the ~ru~ers­tty policy 0~ P.an!!~ vtolanons ~~e~ the Jurt.sdi~tton of the mdivt~ual ~ormttones. We feel that this actton mus~ be taken o~e stel? further b~ placmg th~ e~o/epanetal.qu~Sf:IO~ under 10divtd­ual hall Jurtsdictton. 

of factual "givens," for sure. Under the own, lonely silence. . ·Bryan Gruley model for sportsmen, but is Grace Hall Council 
The Observer -Editorials 

WASHINGTON--1 was at a magazine office the other day and one of the publishers said to me, "I have to reduce my average­age readership by another five years.'' 
"What is the average age of your reader now?" I asked. 
"Thirty-five. As far as my advertisers are concerned 3 5 is much too old an age to appeal to. It's the under 30s who are spending most of the money in this country. When you hit 35 you stan pmching pennies." 
"That's because the people who are over 3 5 have children who are s~nding money, and we senior cttizens don't have as much to spend ourselves.'' 
Don't think the advenisers aren't aware of that. The money power in this country belongs to the kids. They spend more on records in one year than their parents do on grass seed. They also go to the movies and the quick·snack bars, and buy make­up and pantyhose that come in eggs, and jeans and leather jackets. They make the Ameri­ican way of life what it is today. That's why the advertisers want to please them so much. People over 3 5 are drags on society as far 
as  buying power goes.  Adver­ 
tisers don't like that."  
"It  isn't  our  fault,"  I  said  

defensively. "At one time we used to S{>end money like water too. I think advenisers owe us some loyalty. We supponed them for a long time. " 
"You can't let sentiment get involved when you're selling. You have to aim your copy at the person who has the money burn­m~ a hole in his or her pocket. 
'If you publish a magazine or put on a television program that appeals to people who are ma­ture, you could drive this country into a recession. You must target your ads for the vast ignorant segment of the population which will buy A.NYTIIING, ANY­WHERE• ANY TIME. The advertiser does not want to waste his money on someone who is worried about tomorrow.'' 
art buchwald 
"So just because we're dis­criminatin~, peoJ?le over 35 are bad advernsing nsks?" I asked. 
"I would say those over 30. When you cross the 3 5 age barrier the advertiser wants you off our subscription list, 10 feet from the newsstand, and doesn't care if you're sitting in the room when he's selling beer on televi­sion. 
"As far as he's concerned you're just taking up needless roo~ on the planet. When you get mto your 40s and 50s, the adveniser insists that our com­puter spit you out." 
"Wait a minute," I said, ''let's backtrack a bit. It's true that those of us over 3 5 are not the big spenders we once were. But where do you think the money comes from that your advertisers are fighting for? If we didn't supply the dough to our kids, they wouldn't have a dime for aU that junk that makes them such imponant consumers to the ad­vertising world. It's our money that is making them the hot prospects of the business com­muruty and forcing magazines, movies and televiston shows to cater to their idiotic tastes.'' 
"That's quite true," my pub­blishingfriend agreed, "but let's be sensible about this. On a cold snowy evening, would you prefer 
to stay home  or  go  to  a  Pizza  
Hut?"  
''Stay home."  
''And  your  son  and  dau­ 
ghters?"  

"Go to Pizza Hut." 
"So there you are. You might read an ad for a Pizza Hut in my magazine or see one on teleVI­sion. But it's your kids who will go out on a snowy night and buy one. So why the hell should we talk to you?" 
"Why are you talking to me?" 
"Because you're a fnend and I wanted to tell you personally, that because of your age I can no longer carry you on our subscrip­tion list." 
[c) 1979, Los Angeles Time Syn· dzcate 

Friday, February 2, 1979 -page 9 
Parietals cripple interaction 
EDITOR'S NO'IE: TinS COWMN IS REPRINI the parietal system were abolished, dorms would 
1 ED IN PART FROM 1HE OCT. 3, 1978 ISSUE OF not be necessary to update the University;then, THE OBSERVER. ~y ~V3!lfa$e ofcoed Clorms would be attamed by Why the administration views the student body · this eliminanon of unreasonable visitation hours. as childish, immature, and incapable of directing These rules are embarrassing -the,.-insult its own life is a mystery. The student body of Notre students' intelligence , cripple social iniJ,OlCtion Dame has indeed proven its .(Ilaturity and and imply that students are immature. When~ intelligence throughout its academic, athletic, and a male and female enter or leave a dormitory room social careers. Cenainly, given the strict standards they are c?mpeUed, along with any onlookers, to of academic excellence and social character which check thear watches. Of course, if the time the admissions department requires, the very fact ~p~es ~e ::magical hour," everyone is that an individual has been accepted into this mclined to think aha -what were they doing?'' community should prove to the administration that ~d th~y are made to feel unnecessarily guilty for that indivtdual is a capable, mature, intelligent, Just bem_g together. In many cases, roommates too adult person. This, however, is not the case as Dtt are r;teedlessly em~sed because: "Well, they Lac regulations repeatedly suggest to the Notre are m there together. It doesn't matter if the Dame student that he/she is a child. females and males merely feel a need to talk and be According to Dtt Lac, ''Coeducation allows men alone, for once. This IS still misconstrued into and women to contribute to one another's something • • bad.'' This type ofchildish reactiotl is education and to form genuine friendships .. .In the encouraged by preemptory deadlines. Without pro~r context visitation can facilitate personal and these arbitrary ttmes set as limits, people would social development and enhance the quality of life not be needlessly ''embarrassed'' to be with each on our campus.'' Agreed. But the enforcement of other or to see a male and a female together. an arbitrary • 'visitation system'' by the University ~omen and men co~d learn how to socially is incongruous with their beliefs about co­mteract normally wtth one another without education: the enforcement of parietals defeats presupposing that rime of day should affect their purpose. Ifparietals weigh so heavily, DulAc reactions or actions between one another. should read that personal and social development The student body, then, should assen itself can only occur· before midnight (or 2 am on properly to change these rules and attitudes. This weekends). But that is silly; how can anyone place will no~ be a sim{lle task, since the roots of in loco deadlines on social life? parentzs and panetals run throu$hout the admini­Even administrators are confused at the reason­strative structure. But the indivtdual issues must ing behind parietals. While some believe the rime not be allowed to be ftled away unacted upon as if J!mits place a restraint on sexual activity, others they were rubbish. Organizanons like the student consider them a vehicle to attain "quiet hours." government and the Campus Ufe 1Council1 must The two reasons, too, are incongruous with each strive to be more representative of these student other. But these administrators are acting on opinions, and must make its voice heard often and orders from a university president committed to loudly. (circa 1950's) never havin~ women on campus and Finally, and most imponantly, students must (circa 1970s) never aUowmg coeducational dormi­force the highest levels of the administration to tories. But the administration has somewhat recognize that Notre Dame students are indeed modernized its opinions since women now are an mature, capable, ad~ts. . Then, in sup~n and integral pan of the Notre Dame community. demonstranon of this belief, the administration Now again is the time to modernize and update must abolish the useless system of parietals so that this community's attitudes fUld opinions. Notre the_y can succeed in their goal.of producing mature, Dame and its administration must recognize the well-rounded, capable, Amencan leaders. attitudes of society and modernize itself so that its Steve Otllatul rules too are compatible with societal attitudes. If 
Tim Sullivan 
Snow removal 
necessary 
Dear Editor, 
After .pushing scores of cars bogged in the mounds of snow in the student parking lot D-1, we feel it is time to voice our grievances aboQt the deplorable conditions of student parking facilities. 
The lots have not been plowed since the students returned from the holiday break, although we have had 8-10 inches of snow since that date. It is nearly impossible to take your car out alone since it will inevitably become stuck in the deep ruts and ice. 
We feel that after paying 25 dollars per car, the least that could be done is adequate main­tenance of the lots or aisles so that the road can be reached without assistance from other people. Although we feel that Notre Dame should remain a pedestrian campus, it is ridicu­lous for the city of South Bend to remain inaccessible to students with cars. 
Dennis A. Figg 
Timothy M. Mannix 
Don Schmidt 
jef!Whitten 
·.

DOOIBSBUIY 

either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD 

reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray 0 'Brien &x Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ John Calcutt Features Editor . . . . . . . . . Chns Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Lang henry Photo Editor .......... ,Doug Chnstian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of Lheir authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rostff!"P'Y Mills per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem· Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cacltl.? Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Samt Mary's EditoJ . . . . . . FJ/en Bufid1 Business Manager ........ jolm TucUr­
Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ &b Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 
_The Observer_ of 
Features 
Friday, February 2, 1979 -page 10 
Letters to a Lonely God 
Cheering Up Creation 
When God made the world, he made the sun and the moon, the land and the sea, the flesh and the spirit, the mountains and the valleys, and the male and the female. He got most of creation finished, from beginning to end, working only a five-day week. The design that kept him busy was the creation of man. God thought: "There's no sense in making a world that my chiefcreature is going to be bored with in a hurry. Let's face it: if you've seen one mountain, you've seen them all; and how long is a creature apt to want to play, by hi.mself, on a beach?" 
So God reflected; and he fmally decided: "I will separate man into genders that are separate, but equal. I wiJ! make hlm in sexes, male and female, man and woman. Both creatures, man and woman, will be mv unfinished masterpieces, each needing the other for its completion with a loneliness in the bone, a famine in the flesh, a commotion in the bloodstream. At times, they will feel more desperate with their need for one another than their need for me; but tl.. ~-'H' that brings them together will 


How To While Away The Hours, 
Conversing With The Flow-ers 
Performance off campus 

Harry Chapin; February 2, 8 pm. Morris Ctvic Auditorium. The master story teller returns to South Bend. Chapin has a way of captivating, almost hypnotizing his audience with his music and lyrics. For $6.50 and$7.50 this can't 
be beat. 
Buddy Rich andHis Band; February 5 8 pm. Marian High School, Mishawaka. Sponsored by the Marian Music Boosters to benefit their school music department, Rich and band will definitely appeal to all traditional jazz' buffs. Tickets are $5 in advance or $6 at the door. Call 259-5257 for' more 
information. 

Movies off campus · 
California Suite; Forum I. Starring Alan Aida, Jane Fonda, Michael Caine, Walter Matthau. Neil Simon's present screenplay has received both good and bad reviews. Only the wit and charm of the actors saves Suite from falling into meaningless drivel. 
Every Which Way But Loose; Forum 
III. Starring Clint Eastwood. He-man Easr.vnnd strikes out as funny man but the ASPCA will love him eternally for taking in a homeless oxrangutan. Personally, I prefer some of his previous leading ladies. 
· 
be a holy love. i will bless the union of man and woman; and man and woman, through their union, will bless each other." 
So, in the beginning, the man and the woman met; instantly, they fell in love. When they touched, they said: "Wow! This is what we've been looking for. Watching the night sky by yourself makes you write poems. Thinking, by yourself, about the soul and body leads you to philosophy. But making love makes you feel that the mountains are melting into the valleys, and the valleys are crashing into the sea, and the heavens are colliding with the stars, and the stars, melting, are setting the seas on fire; so that creation almost seems to end and begin again in the intimacy of two becoming one flesh.'' 
"Well, I'm glad you like it," God said, "but you needn't exaggerate." 
"Like it?" the woman said. 
"Like it!" the man said. The two of them looked at each other, and laughed. "You're given to under­statement, aren't you, God?" the woman said teasingly. 
"You're bound to screw it up you know," God said. "I'm taking great risks with you.'' 
"How? they both said, shocked to think that God could dream of not trusting them. 
"By making a game of it," God said. "By making a game of sex." "That's what you call it," the woman said. "Sex. It's a lovely word, God. 
"But it's not to be played as a game," God said. ''Sex played a game becomes as ugly as sin." • 
"You charming old phrase-maker," the woman said. ''I'll bet you just made up that word sin, because it's such a perfectly alliterative mate to the word 
, 
sex. 
"Listen to the Lord," the man said sharply; it was obvious that he was already beginning to feel superior to the woman, the gentler half of himself. ''God,'' he said, ''why would we want to make a game out of:sex?" 
"It will happen," God said. "]ust you wait and see." ''But how atuld we take the loveliness ofan experience like sex, and turn it into 

Father Robert Griffin 
somethinE ~ly?'' the man persisted. 
"Someday, ' God said, looking at a calendar he took out of his pocket, ''when the face of the earth is covered with men and women like yourselves, couples will be tempted to be faithless. Men will be attracted to women who are not their wives; women will be curious about men who are not their husbands. The attraction and the curiosity will be natural eno~h; unfor­tunately, however, self-discipline will be laughed at as a needless restraint. Mate-swapping will be promoted as the ideal and the fashion.'' 
"If you know that," the man asked, "then why did yougiveus sexto make a game of in the first ptace?" 
"Are you smarter than ME?" God asked. ''Could you make a perfect world that always keeps itself perfect when it has the choice of doing otherwise? TI-le sun and the moon, I can keep on their courses, because they are senseless things without a soul. The stars and the planets keep their places in the heavens, because I have fixed them there. Even 
[continued on page 11] 
Sports 
Hockey; ND vs Colorado College. February 2, 3. 7:30pm: ACC. 
Basketball  (men);  ND  vs  Dayton.  
February 3, 8 pm. ACC.  
Basketball  (men);  ND  vs  Loyola.  
February 5, 8 pm. ACC.  
Lectures  

Peter Walshe; February 4, 7 pm. Library Auditorium. Phzl Donahue; February 6, 7 pm. Washington Hall. 

Moment by Moment; River Park. Starring Lily Tomlin, John Travolta. Be sure to get a Plitt Theater pass before you see this one, because it certainly can't be worth $3.50. 
Superman; Town & Country I. Starring Christopher Reeve, Margot Kidder, Marlon Brando. "You'll believe 


Dave Gill 


''FLUIE.'' 
Other 
CILA Workshop on Help­
a man could fly." Well, maybe. But 
ing Relationships & Social
even if you don't, the movie makes for Change; February 2, 7-10excellent entertailiment, according to pm. February 3, 9 am-12most movie critics' and several friends. 
noon, 4-6 pm. LibraryBeyondandBack; Town & Country II. 
Auditorium and Lounge. 
• I think I'll wait until this one gets to 
Oriental Art Exhibit and
television because it seems to be a Sale; February 5, 6. 11-7suitable topic for the boob rube to run. 
pm. LaFortune.
Besides, no discount passes are being 
Paul Gerni; pool exhibi­
accepted, so you can be sure the movie tion. February 7. LaFortunewon't be worth the admission. 
Basement.
Movies on campus 
Mardi Gras; February
Saturday Night Fever; February 2, 3. 7, 
9-17.
9:15, 11:30 pm. Engineering Audi­torium. Starring John Travolta. Learn 
Performance on campus
how to dance in two pain/less/ful hours. 
Lisa Funston Mahoney;
The Bee Gees and Travolta were forced Flute; Feb:uary 7, 8:15 pm.
into a higher tax bracket, but it's still a Library Auditorium andpretty good movie. 
Lounge.
Tnumph ofthe Wzll; February 6, 7..7 pm. Engineering Auditorium. Sorry, I don't know what this one is about, but a reliable source (who has to see it for an 
Features Editor 
International Relations class) told me it deals with the rise of fascism in Europe. 
Pontificates: V 
All SMC girls possessing creative writing talents and large quantities of humor 
should write for the Features Editor. Call 7471, 3748 and become a star. 

The Observer-Features 
Friday, February 2, 1979 -page 11 
---------------------------------------------~ 
Senior Arts Festival: Broadway at N D 
The Senior Arts Festival, scheduled to 
take place March 28 to April 4, is 
presently getting underway. Special 
attention is now being giVen to the 
performing arts, since they are the ones 
which will require the most involved and 
lengthy preparations. The drama 
committee of the Senior Arts Festival is 
all fired up, and we'd like to acquaint the 
seniors wtth our status. Our tools at this 
point include a core of plays and a gang 
of Interested Pesons. What we need 
now is to add to the ranks of our 
Interested Persons. 
The actual work on the plays is 
scheduled to begin in the first half of 
next week, when tryouts are to be held. 
We urge everyone to try out. 
Remember, the dominant force of the 
Senior Arts Festival is amateur: the 
festival is most interested in people who 
normally would not get a chance to work 
with this sort of thing. The attitude of 
the festival is, "Go ahead , ~ive it a try; 
it may be your last chance.' 
We have four productions that are 
definitely scheduled already; a 
description of them follows. Of course 
we are open to any completely new 
projects that you might want to try: you 
can contact us by calling Cindy Dykhoff 
at 3887. 
Archibald MacLeigh's play ].B. will run for two nights in Washington Hall. Perhaps the most involved of the plays to be offered by the festival, ].B. also has the largest cast and ultimately the most complicated setting, so actors and technicians alike will be needed for this production. The play has as its theme the Book of Job. Two old faded actors take the parts of God and Satan, and watch as the action of the Book of Job goes on before them, with "J.B." in the role of .Job. As ).B.'s misfortunes unfold, the reactions of the God-player and the Satan-player are followed as well as the reactions ofJ. B. ~ his wife and friends. So the play is finally a complex set of reactions to the Book ofJob, with the interesting device of dramatically 
[ponraying a number of novel points of !view. Xavier Garcia will be directi~g the ~lay, and it is scheduled to run on the r)nal days of the festival as a sort of 
1nale. Since the festival was instituted to ir-ncourage and provide an outlet for 
, , , Creation 
[continuedfrom page 10) 
the beasts and the fish live by habit and 
instinct; only man, the masterpiece of 
the universe, is allowed the choice of 
obeying or resisting the law of his 
nature. I could not be to him as a father 
if he could not freely choose whether to 
bother to love me. " 
''Anyway,'' the man said, drawing his 
wife by the hand, ''we will always love 
you." 
"It would be pretty to think so," God 
said, ''but I'm too old to kid myself. I am 
taking great risks with you." 
"Well," said the woman casually, "I 
guess taking risks is one of the 
responsibilities ofbeing God. Anyway," 
she said, ''I'm ~etting tired of this 
conversation. I thtnk I'll just walk over 
and look at the forbidden fruit-tree." 
"I'll come too," said the man, winking 
at God in a way that said, ''You 
understand." 
"Don't bother," the woman said. "I 
want to be alone. I've got a headache." 
1be man watched the woman walk 
away and kicked a leaf in disappoint­
ment. Then, reflecting, he turned to 
God with a bright smile: "You said there 
would be others like us--like me .. .like 
her. It would sur cheer up creation, 
Lord, ifanother lin • ...: gal like her wa.'> not 
long in coming." 
God, sadly thinking of the risks he had 
taken, put his arms around the man's 
shoulders. 
"Man," he said, "I love you so much. .It's too bad I made you a damned fool." 
creativity among students, we are very pleased to have two student-written contributions among our plays. One production will be a set of four short plays written by Mark Amenta, which Mark will direct himself. The plays are brief --each well under a half hour's length --so the acting itself will be the important element. The emphasis in 
these plays is the orchestration of the dialogueso participating in them would invofve less broad, large-cast, complex­set work, and more narrow, in-dc;pt;h 
work with pure acting. In general, thelf themes tend to be the map~;>ing of an incident or an emotion; studymg it from different points of view! chn;>nicl~g its surroundings, presentmg It With an 
image of itself. The characters are 
mostly female; if ea"ch play was to be 
done with a separate cast, there would 
be nine female parts and one male. 
However, the female parts could be 
reduced to as few as four if the casts 
were integrated. 
Another student play has been written 
by Joe Carey, a senior English major. Joe's play is still in need of a director as well as actors, so the field on it is relati*ly open. The play tends toward the eccentnc, and looks like the sort of thing directors and actors could have a lot of fun with. The original idea of the committe was that it could be done as a reading rather than an actual pro­duction, but of course a director ffilght d~ide to . d~ som~thing c<?mpletely different With It. Joe s play will· be the play that is most open to .an independent sp~t ar;td ~t involved the ~r~est reign of unagmauon, so an enterprJSmg young creative type could really go places with it. Since the ~lay is as yet without a director, it won t be a part of the regular 
tryout schedule until we found one. Anyone interested is heartily encouraged to get in touch with the committee. 
The last of our plays scheduled thus far is a series of two or three plays by Samuel Beckett. The plays under consideration now are Play, That Time and an adapted-for-theater version of 

Cindy Dykhoff 
The Lost Ones. These are lesser known Beckett works, but should be fascinating to produce. The characters include disembodied heads, people buried to their necks in sand, and people trapped inside urns --a laugh a minute, as you:t can imagine. The theory behind owl' production of these plays JS that people " should have fon with Beckett for a change, so the call is out for actors and actresses who'd like to try something a bit abnormal. The plays involve small casts; They might all be cast with as few as three people. A large number of interested people might induce us to do more than the scheduled two or three plays. 
Basically, then, the drama committee is calling seniors to action; it is appealing to the ham who is also a chicken and has always been scared to try up to this point. So when the posters for tryouts go up across campus next week, think twice before you dismiss them --we hope to catch you between the first and second thoughts, before you have a chance to talk yourself out of it. 
Album Review 
Briefcase Full of Blues 
''When jake could keep himselfout of jail, FJwood took off from the Taser factory and the brothers rode the state bare. They playedeverywhere; the after hours clubs, black-light bars, word spread quietly across the steel belt about the two men in the porkpie hats who still played the blues. '' 
Joliet Jake and Elwood Blues. The 
Blues Brothers. By now most people 
know who they are. 
In what started as a skit on NBC's 
Saturday Night live, John Belushi and 
Dan Akyroyd have parlayed their extra­
ordinary talents into what could be one 
of this year's top selling IP's. Their 
debut album, "Briefcase Full of Blues" 
is curtently the number one album on 
the Billboard charts. 
But what really makes the Blues Brothers are the top rate musicians which comprise the band. Members of the band are some of the finest studio musicians around. They are: Steve Jordan, drums; Paul Shaffer, piano and organ; Steve Cropper, guitar; Duck Dunn, bass guitar; Alan Rubin, trumpet; Tom 'Bones' Malone, tenor sax, trom­bone; Matt 'Guitar' Murphy, guitar; and Lou Marini, tenor sax. The ninth member of the band, Tom Scott, is probably the most popular, as he has played backup to numerous performers. He has his own band, L.A. Express, in addition to playing in the Blues Brothers band. 
The album is tight. It is unique. And it is good. 
The first song on the album is "Hey Bartender,'' a rough, tough song about nights in a smokey gin mill. Jake's rasping, growling vocals highlight the number, pleading for the bartender to "draw one, draw two, draw three, four glasses of beer." 
The next selection is "Messing with the Kid,'' followed by ''Almost,'' featur­ing Scott, Rubin, Malone, and Marini in the horns section. 
Elwood breaks his silence by singing lead on "Rubber Biscuit," a number so crazy and absurd it just makes you break up in laughter. Elwood does the incomprehensible lyrics masterfully, which will, without a doubt, enlighten the listener to the true meaning of life. 
The final son~ on the first side is "Shotgun Blues, 'a down to earth blues tune, featuring Matt "Guitar" Murphy. 
On the flip side, the flfst selection is a reggae tune entitled "Groove Me." Not a bad song, but not one ofthe best on the album. This song is followed by "I Don't Know.'' This is the crudest, funniest 

Tim Joyce 
song on the album with constant playful sexual references by Joliet Jake, such as: ''Would you walk a mile for a Camel? or would you make like Mister Chester­field and satisfy? Well, that all depends on what you're packing--regular or King size?" The hom section once again comes through, combining to make this the tightest number of all. 
"Soul Man," the 1967 Sam and Dave tune written by Isaac Hayes and David Porter follows. This has been the most widely played song of the all)um. Jake's vocals and Elwood's soulful harp playing make this a well thought out piece--done better than the Sam and Dave version. 
" 'B' Movie Box Car Blues" and "Flip Flop, and Fly" round out the IP. All told, this is a super album by a surprisingly good band. The band is arranged by Malone and sounds much like Southside Johnny and the Asbury Jukes; a tight, slick band with rough crude lead vocals and that ever present wailing blues harmonica. 
For those who have seen the Blues Brothers on television, you'll probably admit that without the visual antics of Belushi and Aykroyd, the act lacks something. But consider the album on musical merit alone and you'll agree that this is one tight, tough album. 
Political Hanky-Panky 

Charles Wood 
Golden Dome/Capitol Dome 
March 31, 1982 Washington, D.C. (WP) -In marked 
contrast to his now legendary pardon of Patricia Hearst in early 1979, President Jimmy Carter today announced to a stunned White House press corps that he has decided to remove all Republican politicians from this country. In a moment of levity, Mr. Carter coined the phrase "G.O.P.'s will be 0-C." "0-C" 
standing for Out of the Country. 
Mr. Carter termed this a ''Non-political action.'' The President stated that after serious discussion with his staff and the Cabinet, he feels that it would be in the best interest of the country because the Republicans "simply do not fit into the lifestyle of our great nation and its new foundation.'' 
When asked about the coincidence of this move comin~ so soon after the latest Gallup poll showtng a marked increase in the number of registered Republicans since his second election, the President said that these figures only emphasized the necessity of his action in that they showed the "persistent influence of vicious Republicans on citizens with weak willpower." Mr. Carter went on to display three large sacks of mail which he claimed represented the significant amount of "nght-thinking Americans" who had requested that the Administ­ration do something. Reporters were not allowed to examine this mail. 
In response to this announcement, Gerald Ford, former president and present Chairman of the G.O.P., said that he had had no warning that such a move was in the making. He also said i:hat a letter was being prepared that will instruct all registered Republicans to ignore the government completely. In Mr. Ford's words, his party is ~oing to ''Abolish the Carter Admirustration within its ranks." 
Ford said that he and other leaders of the G.O.P. were now waiting for a show of solidarity from the other political parties in the country. This movement, he said, ''will involve the entire nation.'' 
When it was suggested that the Administration might just ignore this action in return, Mr. Ford gave no response. 

When told of the plans of Ford and his compatriots, Billy Carter, White House Press Secretary, pointed to the devastating effects of a similar action in our country's history, lthe · Civil War. Mr. Ford, however, pointed to the situation in the lower Michigan­Michiana-northem Illinois region where individual counties and groups of counties have different time standards. Said Mr. Ford, "Those states have given these counties a choice, showing that they consider them to be responsible. By analo~, we should be able to have any poliucal party we want, and not worry about its effect on our residency in the country.'' 
Once again, Ford had no comment when a reporter challenged his analogy, pointing to the inherent confusion in the region he had mentioned as far as making long-distance phone calls, and crossing from one set ofcounties into the next.,was concerned . 
r 
he Observer -Features

·--
2, 1979 ­
Heroes Anonymous 


](Jhn Santos: ND's Rhodes Scholar 
Chris Stewart, Features Editor 
) ohn Santos, Holy Cross resident was recently honored. by being award~d a Rhod~ Scholarship.A graduatins senior, ) ohn ts the first Notre Dame rectpient of the R!todes since 1964, and the sixth in 
• ND history. 
He is a native of San Antonio Texas Hi~ academic fone is english and philosophy. The prestigious Rhodes Schol~hip, awarded annually to 32 Amencans, was bestowed upon him on December 16, 1978 in Chic~o. 
The Rhodes Scholarship ts given to persons who possess the highest caliber ?f character and intellectual promise. It ·~ generally alloted for two years (mcrements are approximatelr $8,000 a y~) t? study at England s Oxford Uruverstty. 
John's achievements are impressive. He served as the 1977 chairman for the 
Sophomore Literary Festival and pre­sently reigns as editor ofthe Notre Dame student literary magazine, The juggler. He won the ND Sullivan Award for fiction writing, has published several poems and captured three major writing awards. Interspersed with his writing, he was a membc;r of the steering council of CAP (Commtttee on Academic Pro­gress) and served as the assistant c~airman to the Cultural Ans Commis­ston. 
His artistic capabilities are not limited to ~he written word. He is an accom­plished actor. At Churchill High School, ~e played leading roles m Barefoot zn the Park and Oempus Rex. At N?tre Dame, he participated in The Cruczble, Beyond The Horizon and A Man For All Seasons. In the l~tter he turned in a brilliant performance ~ Sir Tho~ Mo~e. _He helped spearhead some l!DProv_tzattonal productions at the Nazz, mcluding guerilla theatre, Santa Oaus, and a play by John Guarre. 
An unusual compendium of influences hav~ made J ~hn into the creative person he }S. ~~stcally, a Texas swing band entttled Bob Wills and Texas Play­boys,'' has been a source ofinspiration. The necessary literary impetuS came primar_ily through)ack Kerouac, Roben Brownmg and Ezra Pound. 
When asked about his time at Notre Dame, John replied: "It has been an irreplaceable experience here. Thanks to people likt; Profs. Thomas Jemielity, Ernest and Eileen Sandeen and friends like Ri~ Landry ~d Billy Hassel, ND ~ provtded me wtth everything I hoped tt would." 
During a recent interview, I queried John abOut his diversified talents and how the impact ot the award may ~ect him. 
0 
Stewan: Did you expect the Rhodes Scholarship? 
Santos: ~o. I hadn't given it serious thought until early last year. In high school, when I first even knew what the Rhodes was, I had a vague notion that the Rhodes was Roads, as in R-0-A-D-S Scholar. I always had the vision of Woody Guthrie, Jack Kerouac and those types.. .I thought they were the Rhodes Scholars. 
Stewan: Why_ did you apply? . 
~a_ntos: I was mterested mamly m the poltttcal and energetic dimenstons of so~e of the poetry circles in England at this moment. I feel there is a lot of energy being emanated from London and Cambridge. 
I do not have a long standing romance for Europe or England. Nor do I have the b~g desire to jump across the Adan~c. My principle reason for 
• appl>:tng was because I was interested in mee~g the people who are talking, working, and publishing poetry--those wh? have the courage or audacity to say 'this is good,' or 'this is not good.' 
Intellectual living 
On Astrology 
Astrol?gy is a field that is often accused of bemg too general such that any horosco):?C could penain to any person. Hence tt becomes rather ambigious abo~t wha! is and about what will be. My mt~nt ts to e~adicate this ambiguity ~d bnng a pantcular precision to the sctence of Astrology 
There .are . exactly twelve types of persons m !his wo~ld, one for each sign of .t~e zodiac. libra always go into polittcs, and Gemini are homosexuals Despite the ~o~ant nature of Ta~. he ?r she mvanabl>: winds up doing clencal ~ork. All Ptsces are ) ewish. Leos, wtthout exception, are Negroes; they all tap dance, sing the blues eat wate~lon, and play basketb~. Scorptos. are bowlegged and are subject to sneezmg fits. A Sagittarius is fond of o~~ts and frequently bores people with his mces~ant talk of them. Cancer has a foot fettsh and would kill for the _I>?SSessi~n of an open toed shoe. The Vtrgo will_ stand ~e deep in whipped cream. while hummmg old)erome Kern ­mel_odies. ;\cquarius is allergic to ~adishes. Anes have red hair and keep m close correspondence with the mayor ?f Oeveland. · Capricorn play brass 
tnstruments. Keeping with this exactness let us also look at daily horoscopes... ' 
T<_>day's Hor~cope: Anes~-You will contract a rare disease and die. 
Taurus--Sell. 
Gemini--Taurus is a fool. Buy. 
Cancer--Your cousin the urologist will . t to talk shop at a cocktail party. you llleave the party when you remember 
Pat Byrnes 
that you intended t.o.wasiJyour hair. On the way home you will wttness a hatchet massacre. 
Leo--Your mother will call long distance to tell you that your cousin Ernie's skin has cleared up. She will reverse the charges. 
Vt?;go--Your car will be run over by a 
dog. 
ubra--Your Aunt Edna will tell you that 
her husband has lost his mind. You will 
cont~nt that he may have just misplaced 
It. 
Scorpio--A Jewish merchant will send you a dozen roses and offer to press your Jacket at a discount. You will respond by stuffing your shin with eggplant. The matter will be settled over a bowl of soup. 
SagittanU.s--You will fmd a copy of Guy ~mbardo' s will in your lunch box. It wtll be soiled with jam stains. 
Capncorn--You will send away for an auto~raphed picture of Hermann Goenng. Venus is in the third house and so is your wife; find a good lawye/ 
Aquanit_s--A blind beggar will throw his harmoruca at you. 
Pisces--Unfavorable moon position ~es you perspire a lot. Your hamster wtll try to hum Beethoven's Ninth S>:mphony, but he will get lost in the mtddle of the second movement. This makes him fling bits of parsley about his cage. The Ninth is. not an easy s~phony; try to calm him down. Have htm try the Seventh next time. 
However, I am not going over there to sit at the foot of any saga. 
Stewan: Tell me a li~e about yourself. 
. Sant<?s: I'm21 years old. My heritage ts Mext~-Amencan, and that's been an ?Verrtding concern in my writing and fictton. 
My experiences at Churchill High charactenzed w~t was going to happen to. me up . to this day. A group of fnends--wnters, actors, musicians--and I shared our artistic skills together. 
On weekends, we would-work collec­
tively, doing spontaneous things like 
~try readings and dramatic presenta­
tiOns. 
The groundwork was laid then, where­
by I was very comfonable with the idea 
that I made art, and there was nothing 
wrong with that. 
Stewan: When did Jou become 
serious about writing, an were there 
any critical ~ning points in your early 
years as a wetter? 
Santos: I first became serious about 
li~erary an aro~d the age of 14 or 15. I 
did some rhymmg poems, imitating 
~onnets: ..If there was any one exper­
tence, tt was the reading of David 
Copperfield. The book affected me very 
deeply. During that time I had a more 
co~tted and deliberat~ political con­
sctousness. 
Stewan: Which was? 
. Santo~: I wasn't a flan;lln~ idiologist, 
~nstead, ttwas more a curtostty, one that 
tmpelled me to consider the need for 
humanitarian politics and social reform. 
David Copperfield showed me that 
literature coUld be effectively used, not 
only for ans of poesis, but to raise 
polttical and social consciousness. (He 
mentione~, from Copperfield, the exam­
ples of child labor and the English labor 
laws, and how their presentatton in the 
book affected him). 
Stewan: Those two issues just raised 
at any time during your youth, were yo~ 
exposed to or conscious of any of these 
abusive labor practices? 
S~tos: Yes, especially one that 
contmues to haunt me. That is the plight of the 'wetback' laborer ... the illegal alien ... the Mexican who swims across the Rio Grande for work in the United S~tes. They _work for absolutely mtnumum wages m exchange for maxt­
I?um labor. They lead a real bohemian 
life, an underground existence. Even 
now, I have a strong sense of pity and 
identification with them. 
. Stewan: Have ~ese · experiences 
gtven Y?U any l'~ttcular sense of 
purpose m your wrtttng? 
Santos: Not anything as deliberate or 
pronounced as a purpose. I do think that 
tdiology and an often don't mix at all. 
. Stewan: But you said before that 
hterature could be used to raise political 
awareness? 
Santos: Sure, in its portrayal of the 
depth of suffering of a group, or the 
hetght of joy among a people. I don't 





• 

believe in idiological an. I don't think an should be used as a propaganda 
stick, .o! f~r ~xplicitly political purposes. 
Politt~ ~s informed by a deeper, more cogent. ~stol_l of the world. If you put that vtston tn your work, people will glean a political or formally social sense out of the writing. 
In my work, f use the image of the wetback a lot. I feel a very personal identification with the character of the wetback. 
Stewan: What are some of the main characteristics of the wetback? ~antos: Tremendous respect for work. 
His sense of association between work and the value of life. His association ~tween 'York and honesty. A despera­tton that J_l!mps between work and the value of life, whereas life is empty or v~cuous unless something is being done wtth the hands and the Dody. 
Stewan: Tell me about the evolution of your writing. 
Santos: The evolution of my writing has been a process by which I think I've become more honest about my circum­stance1 my heritage, my nationality, my sexuality. 
The earliest writing was concerned with different formal issues. There was a lot of wild experiementation. In my group offriends, we were trying to be as free about creation and conception as possible. We. did spo~taneous plays, stayed up all rught working on a script or did round-rooin spontaneous peoms.' It wa;s a very def1ntte time for experi­menttng . 
I became fascinated with conversa­tion, with coincidence. I became a lot freer about what I allowed to come into my mind. I do not think I was as hostile to holding two contradictory thoughts as I was before, or accepting as familiar to me a state of disorder. 
As a child or young adult, you often want to categorize or label or implement. 
I lost a lot of that when I first came to Notre Dame. I began to appreciate the sense of disorder which is supreme in the world. 
Stewan: Since you have acted in several tradgedies, could you explicate your own conception of tragedy? 
Santos: . I don't. fet;l that tragedy takes place to a tragtc rmstake ofthe will. 
I really feel tra~edy is what happens when human will is completely at Odds with the universe ... when fate rules and human activity is utterly insignificant ... when we're completely dominated by a turn of events the way Phedre is do~ated by her lust for Hippolytus: that ts tradgedy. She can't do anything about it; that's the tragic thing. She didn't choose to love him; all of a sudden she just loves him. 
Stewan: John, I want to thank you, and wish you well on your adventure to Oxford. 
Santos: Chris, it's been my pleasure. Thank you for your interest and c6ncern. 


.... ­
( 

~--------~------­
-----, 
' 

' '!:he Observer -Sports Friday, February 2, 1979 -page 13 
... Belles 

[continued from page 16] 
quits, as they badgered the Belles with steals and goals, keeping the margin close. SMC took another time out with a bit less than half the final period remaining, leading natrowl:y, 46-45. The rest of the game did the Belles more harm than good, as TSU came out stronger to nudge past the Belles 59-56. SMC again called for a break in the action as they trailed by three. When play resumed Maureen O'Brien stepped to the charity stripe and converged on both shots to pull the Belles within one. Kathleen Cullen then added two more J?Oints to Saint Mary's score, putttng SMC in the 
lead once agam. 
Tri-State had still not lost sight of a possible win, as they continued to battle. The Belles clung tightly to their slim lead, adding J?Oints when needed to hold a wmning margin. Tension mounted, however, as TSl! 
stayed within two. It was not until 
the final two seconds of the 
contest that SMC could breathe a 
little easier. Maureen O'Brien 
again headed for the free throw 
line, and sank both shots to ice 
the Belles' win. 
Once again the Belles were plagued with a massive amount of turnovers, but to SMC's advantage Tri-State failed to capitalize on many of the mis­takes. TSU managed to hang in the game largely due to the fact that they completely dominated the boards and the hot outside shooting of their gu.'U'd, Teresa Woodard, who pumped in 18 points for the visitors. Woodard was joined in double figues by three of her TSU teammates. 
SMC shooting, greatly im­proved from past contests was 
led by Nancy Nowalk with 14 points. Following Nowalk in double figures for the Belles were O'Brien and Kathleen Cullen each with 12, and Meg Holland with 10. 
Irish box score 

IN produced ,~v Aiken Management In association with\.CONCERT! River City Records BARRY CHAPIN TONIGHT! _8:00 pm Morris Civic Auditorium -South Bend good seats are still available at River Citv Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North (3 miles north ot campus) and the Morris Civic box office. Call 277-4242 for further info  
Engineering & Computer Science Majors DON'T MISS TALKING TO THE HUGHES RECRUITER VISITING YOUR CAMPUS SOON. Contact your placement office for interview dates. r·----~-------·----,I I l HUGHES l I I ~------------------~ OWI*'IJ• -IIIIOfld with 1M1c11on1cs AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F  

XAVIER [51)·-Spivery 23-4 7, Payton 2 1-21 5, Sunderman 3 o-o 6, Daniels 6 3-3 15, Walker 7 2·2 16, Massa 0 o-o 0, Chadwell 0 2·4 2, Richter 3o-o 6, Dow oo-o o, King 0o-o 0. 23 11·18 57. 
NOTRE DAME [66]·-Woolrldge 3 Q-0 6, Tripucka 74-718, Laimbeer 10·1 2, Branning 4 0-1 8, Wilcox 3 o-o 6, Mitchell 3 o-o 6, Jackson 45-613, Flowers 15·77, Healy 0Q-0 1 0, Hawkins 0o-o o, Keily.O o-o o. 2614·22 66. 
Halftime--Notre Dame 30, Xavier 27. Fouled out--Xavier-Payton, Sunderman. Technicai··Laimbeer. Total fouls--Notre Dame 16, Xavier 20. A-·11,345. 
Other scores 
Indiana State 91, New Mexico State 89 
Michigan State 84, Ohio State 79 
Indiana 68, Michigan 62 
Arkansas 68, Texas 58 
illinois 67, Minnesota 57 

College Bowl teams match-up 
Sunday, February 4, 1979 
Team 1 ~ Beth Spear 
Ca u,1yCowhey 
WUlS~ F;ny!=dy
Pta Tnglalu 
Team2 Cathy Loftus ,Mao' Eileen Revord 
KatnyByrne
Kathy Cleary 7:15p.m.-Team 1 vs 3 
7:45 p.m. -Team 2 vs 3 
8:15p.m. -Team 1 vs 2 Thursday, February 8, 1979 
Sunday, February 11, 1979 Team! 
Team1 
Louise Enyedy Kathy Murphy 
Lisl}Fulk~ 
Louise Enyedy 
Kathy Byrne Cathy Lottus 
MarY Beth Spear 
MarY Beth Spear Team2 
Team2 
Pia T rj_giani 
.Lisltfpl!cs . 
Pta Tr!inaru 
MarY Eilleen Revqrd Mazy hlJen Maccio MarY E leo, Macc10 Katlly Cleary Cadiy Cowhey 
Team3
Team3

Team3 
Roseanne Enyedy 

b1ary Ellen Maq:io 
Kathy Loftus 
KathvByrne 
Cathy Cowhey 

J}~sefl~ Enyedy 
Kathy Cleary 
Roseanne Eny_edy 
. Kathy Murphy 
Mary Eileen Kevord 

Ka~yMurphy 
• • . Xavier 

. oble.~ 
OffiaJtS Pizza 
and other 
Good Things 

CORNER OF GRAPE ROAD & CLEVELAND ACROSS FROM THE NEW UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
Call ahead for faster service or directions 
277-5300 

r---------------,------~---..--·-------.
I $1.00 OFF $1.50 OFF I
I 

ION ANY LARGE I ON ANY SIZE I DEEP DISH. I MASTERPIZ I
1 1

SICILIAN PIZZA ! ZA · 
I~~~~~UPON PER ORDER 

(oNE couPON PER ORDER~XP 2/20/79 -EXP 2/20/7-Y--..,.. 

'. 
1,·, 
. ·.··. 
\ .. ,; .·..... ·.. 
. ·~··· . 

[continuedfrom page 16] 
with more intensity tonight than we have before. Losing doesn't hurt so bad when you plaY. well. 
Next up for the Irish will be a visit by the Flyers of Dayton University, Saturday night at the ACC at 8 p.m. "Dayton should be a tough ball game," Phelps commented. "Their guards, Jim Paxson and Jack Zimmerman compliment each other well. And Paxson will be up since he knows his brother will be here next year. He should score his 28 points.'' 
We just have to make sure no one else scores 28,'' Phelps added. 

Nixon visits Mitchell, 
rekindles old jr,iendship 
WASHINGTON [AP]--Richard day that the two met for lunch at 
M. Nixon has a lengthy, unan-the Middleburg estate and spent nounced reunion this week with two to three hours together. John N. Mitchell, who served a MitcheiJ was accompainied by ~9-month prison term for his part Mary Gore Dean, a Maryland tn the Watergate cover-up. socialite and frequent compan­"They' re still good friends," said ion whom Mitchell is rumored to a mutual friend. be interested in marrying. 
It was the flrst time the former Speaking of Nixon and Mitchell, president had seen his former the friend said: ''lber world attorney general, aw partner and doesn't knoow they're still good ~.:ampatgn manager since . friends." Mitchell was released Jan. 19 Nixon had once suggested that from a federal prison camp in Mitchell shoulder full respon­Aiabama. sibility for the Watergate cover-
They met Wednesday at a up, which drove the president private estate. near Middleburg, from ~ffice in the face of ~eat· VA, where Ntx:on stayed during ened unpeachment. But Mitchell Chinese Vice Premier Teng has never uttered a harsh word Hsiao-ping's visit to Washington. about Nixon and refused to Nixon met Ten~ twice during the permit his defense lawyers to do three-day offictal visit, the last so. time for nearly an hour at Teng's "He was very loyal to the guest . quarters across Pe~-president, and the president has ~varua Avenue from the White not very loyal to him," former 
use. . . Sen. Sam 1-Ervin, D-N.C., 
The fnend of Ntxon and chainnan of the Senate Water­Mitchell, who asked that he not gate committee, said recently of be named, told a reporter yester· Mitchell. _ 
'. ' ·­


The Observer -Sports Friday, February 2, 1979 ­
... Krause, all--American 
:::0, YovN& ,t!At-J WHY ARE You JNTE:R\IJEW1N& VJ1TH ouR COMPANY? ..., 
[continued from page 16} 
Golic recendy accomplished the feat in football and wrestling. 
The 1976 inductee to the National Basketball Hall of Fame was such a dominating figure on the court, that Irish mentor George Keogan altered his entire system to accomodate Krause. 
''They had used the cross­court game for years," offers Krause, who scored 547 points and led the Irish to a 54-12 mark in his three playing years. 
"But in high school I had played the pivot. So he (Keogan) switched the whole offense to a pivot game, since our freshman team beat his varsity ·so often the year before." 
Krause, at 6'4" and 235 pounds, was a monstrosity for his day. Because of his size, and his 
c
26. C...CWate 
21. The penon 
R
llddraHd 
27. 
Ireland 

28. 
Rowiater 


0
ao. Tiny ln&ect 
33. Beeome pale 
s 
34. Pit 
36. Waslbnd of 
s 
37. 
Summit 

38. 
Pathway 


w
39. 
Merchandise outlet 

40. 
Window glass 


0
42. 
Belgium re­

sort D R 

43. 
Cereal grain 

44. 
Cone-bearing tree 


s
45. Small-, youngsters 
Answers 

NOW J:{)N 'T BE t-.!ERVOUS, -:JUST BE YoURSELF •• o wHAT Do YCXJ WtJJT 
FR.OM uFE ? 
ability to utilize it, he was an 
instrumental factor in two rule 
changes in college basketball. 
''They changed the rules on two occasions because I was so big and so wide that they couldn't push me around. They didn't call fouls like they do today, of course, so I was able to push guys 
.around a lot more than they do now.'' 
The first rule change prohi­bited an offensive player from holding the ball in the lane for three seconds. But since "that didn't hurt our offense one bit," according to Krause, the follow­mg year .he three-second rule as we know it today was implemen­ted. 
"My size was actually a factor in high school first,'' commented Krause, leading to how he was nicknamed at DeLaSalle High School in Chicago .. "I was a big awkward kid. As a 14-year-old kid playing high school ball I was son of clumsy. 
''I missed a few blocks that my coach, now the honorable Judge Norman Barry in Chicago, got real upset at me. He told me, 'You're big enough to be a moose, and you can't even block that little guy in front of you.' " 
Nobody got in Krause's way once he reached Notre Dame, however. And once he graduated in 1934, he was well on his way to success. 
"I got the best job of any student that graduated in my class," admits Krause. "It was in the middle of the depression and nobody got a job like mine. I got $2500, plus room, board and. laundry." 
Those were the figures when Krause left Notre Dame to be­come a coach at St. Mary's College in Winona, Minn. where he coached basketball, football, baseball, tennis, track and golf int addition to being the dean of the physical education school and dean of the journalism school. 
"I coached all those spons and also drove the bus," mul)ed Krause who shonly moved to Holy Cross, where he rejuvinated the basketball program in his three years there. ' 
Krause returned to his alma mater in 1942, and has remained here since. He took over the basketball coaching position from Keogan upon his return and posted a 98-48 mark in six seasons as coach. 
Notre Dame's 1948 victory over Kentucky in the "Old Field­house" has to rank at the top of the list of coaching victories under Krause. In that contest the Irish beat a Kentucky team that 

by Michael Molinelli 
;-T-H£-FJ-N-Dt-IJG_S_O_F_TH_£___,"!0"'1 · FD-1 THAT STATE : CI6AR£TTE SHOK!NG , CAUSES CANCER HAS COME UNDER FIRE. 



eventually won the collegiate national title and the Olympic Gold Medal. The Wildcats were coached by the legendary Adolph Rupp, and had such stars as Alex Groza and Ralph Beard, but nonetheless fell to the Irish, 64-55. 
"Adolph said he couldfl't even hear himself talk to his players because we put the band right behind his bench,'' smiled Krause. "1hen he looked across the way and saw 400 black robes praxing. 
"He said there was no way they could have won,' and pro­mis~d never to play Notre Dame in that snake pit anymore." 
On March 22, 1949, Krause relieved Football Coach Frank Leahy of his duties as athletic director, as Leahy wanted to devote his full time to coaching. After the 1950-51 basketball season, Krause gave up coaching basketball so that he could give his undivided attention to his job as athletic director. 
And since, Notre Dame's ath­letics have continued to grow at the rate at which they have progressed since the time of 
Krause when he was captain ofthe 1933-34 Irish basketball team. 'Moose' was selected .All-American in both football and basketball. 
[continued from page 16] 
Dave Welsh (7-6-2), a two-time winner at Ohio State last Sunday will be looking to extend that streak at 142, while J. unior Mike Wilda (5-13-1) wrest es at 150. 
Rockne, gaining respect and from schools throughout the country. 
''So many schools are of Notre Dame's success,'' thuses Krause. "We're the school in the that international radio over the world. Why not? all, we're a national school, just a local institution.'' 
"And as Father He:sbulfl!l points out, you can't thing in a class room. comes first. We · spiritual too. But the u"'"''Ldl important, also. It's the of having a sound mind healthy body. A truly Dame education involves academic, the spiritual and physical." 
And nobody knows a Notre Dame education Krause does. Anybody spends practically his entire ttme servin~ one school know what tt has to offer. 
Perhaps its no coincidence Edward Walter " Krause, born on Day, has cast the shadows on athletics. 
... Grapplers 
The 158 slot is a between Chris Favo (7-7-1) Bill Moore (2-9), with one of two filling in at 177. Favo was fourth-place finisher last year. Iglar (7-7), out of action weekend because of injured will be returning to the lineup in his accustomed role. 
Sophomore Dave Rodgers freshman Jeff Morris round the Irish lineup at 190 heavyweight respectively. 
"We probably have six lers with the _potential to win weekend, if everythins goes well,'' notes Sepeta, in his fourth year as Irish mat mentor. "The team is basically so young, though, that they might make little mistakes that could cost them a match. 
"Although Carroll is the favor­ite in this year's tourney, I think we can wrestle right wtth them, especially since our injury situa­tion has improved since last weekend," claims Sepeta opti­mistically. 
The Irish lost to John Carroll 36-9 in a dual match here last Saturday.· 
But ifhistory repeats itself, the outcome of this week's tourney· could very well be in Notre Dame's favor. Although the Irish lost to John Carroll in a dual meet last year, they downed the Blue Streaks in the National Catholic meet. 
1. Tear ricoi'OIJs­ly 
f. llattrua onp­port 
8. s-ate; 
pllde 
12. 
lmn,you­

13. 
Valoroua man 

14. 
Century plant 


16. 
Befall: 2 wdo. 

17. 
Remain in the memory 

18. 
A "snap" 

19. 
Interlaced 

20. 
Flyer's "okay" 


23. Pump, for one 24.. False god 
25. Printing-press roller 
29. 
Negative word 

30. 
Dejection 

31. 
Brazil city 

32. 
)Cuffle by noise: 2 wds. 


34. Crumbly soil 
36. Which thing? 
36. 
Slander 

37. 
Braid ::9. Twirl 


41. 
China's direc­tion 

42. 
Get rid of: 2wds. 


46. 
Poker bet 

47. 
Com !..read 

48. 
Atmosphere 

49. 
Sharp 


60. 
Emulated 

61. 
Attempt 


DOWN 
1. Cheer-rd
z.y..,·•­
3. BriO &DeJ'IY 
4. Clip, aa sheep 
6. Camera put 
8. Oatentatioua­l:veethetic 
7. 
In addition 

8. 
Public bar 


$. Military color: 2wds. 
10. 
Gad 

11. 
Number auftlx 


16. Pare 
19. Fancy 20. See 16-Down 
21. 
Scent 

22. 
Be lost to use: 3wds. 

23. 
Narrowopen­ing 



-·-···-·-··--· .. -·---·-----··· .... -------.. ----·---· 
The Observer -Sports Friday, February 2, 1979 -page 15 
by Michael Ortman start by taking the 400-yard But it ms really a big night for !tomorrow as they travel to Olean,Sports Wnler medley relay in 3:47.0. Fresh­the sophomores, as second year N.Y. for a Saturday meet withSt. 
Swimmers stroke to road victory 
Coach Dennis Stark is wishing Notre Dame could swim all of its meets on the road. Last night his Irish swimmers ran their road record to 3-1 with a convincing 67-46 victory at Western Ontario. 
The Irish, now 3-3 on the season, took seven of the first ten events to post a 67-25 lead and swam exhibition for the final three events. 
The tankers got off to a fast man Mike Hilger followed with a victory in the 100-yard freestyle in 10:26.2. (Last Saturday, Hilger set a new varsity record m this event with a time of 10:18.1). 
Another freshman, Donald Casey, also won his event, the 200-yard buqerfly. The rookie sensation swam the distance in 2:02.2, just 4/10 of a second shy of the varsity record, which belongs to Casey himself. 
men ] ohn Komora, Rody McLaughlin, Pat LaPlatney and David Campbell all won their respective events. Komora swam the 50-yard frees~le in 22.3 seconds, McLaughlin took the 200-yard individual medley in 2:08.4, l..aPlatney in 2:03.5 and 
:Campbell swam the 500-yard freestyle in 5:12.4. Stark and his swimmers will be on the road most of the day 

Boniventure. Tiie Irish have 
taken 11 of the 12 meets between 
1WO schools including a 68-44 
victory last season at Rockne 
Memorial. The Indians currendy 
stand 3-3 in dual meet comE­
cion and as their coach ohn Skehan put it, they, like the · , !have baa "an off-and-on start." 
The next home meet foe the :Irish will be on February 10 tagai.nst Marshall. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.. two days prior I to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classilieds Monday through Friday. 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All cla~silieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
Big country house for rent, fumnlsed, Guat lpllktr It AMEN INC. Hippy
Need Dayton tickets! Big money, call 

:to ten minutes travel, for next Paul, 272-5201. Hour: Brlln Hepn. Pleal flln usll 
Notices Personals
I year. 277·3604

TI'IVII .. Landin llld Rllllllllla IUIIIIIIII'. f« 11111'1 lllflnnltlon, contlct Dr. A. I need many Dayton l:t-ball tlx. Call 8937. And now the moment that you hive all Black. SMC-4141. 
belli,:::,.fori II Those exciting Obllr-
Furnished four bedroom house for rent, nr Ill T1kt hiWiy, penanalslcouple blocks from campus, for next 
WAR! No, just kidding, but I do need 3
school year.

Accurate. fast typi~. Mrs. Bedford, Diybln GA tlx. Not necessarily all 288-2107. Hours: 8 M to 5 PM. together. Call John at 301111.
277·3604 Unite and abolish!!! 

Happy Hour! Fridays from 3-6, Pan­dora's Is offeri::S a 2 for 1 sale on used books. Local behind N.D. Apts.21')-2342. 
Gay students of Notre Dame/St. Mary's Gay Information line 8870 call Fri. February 2, 10 PM-12 midnl~ht Saturday, February 3, 10 PM-12 midn ~ 
or write P .0. Box 

Attenllon all Logan volunteers and Inter­ested students. 
Like to watch hockey? Help some of the mentally handl"ped kids and adults enjoy the Color o College-Notre Dame hockef game this Friday, February 2. Cheer the NO leers to victory and help the kids too. Meet at Logan Center on Friday at 6:30 PM. Tickets are provided for kids and volunteers. 
Regular Saturday rec this Saturday, Febura1o 3, at Logan Center from 9:D0-11: AM. Come and join In on the fun! Questions, call mike, 1371, or sue, 4-1-4832. 
Lost&Found 
Found at end of last semester: HP calculator. Phone Reggie: 7987, to claim. 
Found: Calculator In Eng. Aud. Call Andy at 1541 to Identify. 
Lost: One Hold medal on 18 Inch chain. 
Christ pro le. Reward. 2103. 
Lost: Blue, nylon coat with 8'oves, hat, and keys In pocket at oose's on Saturday. 1/20. Don-8175. 
Lost: White Adldas l:t-ball shoes at track meet In ACC. Near hockey rink, Friday night, 1/26. Call1521. 
Lost: gold longlnes pocket watch. Please return lor ab~ $reward, this watch Is my entire life!! im-2164. 
Lost: at 823 Notre Dame Ave. Pa~ last Friday, aturquoise bracelet. Call 3 50 to Identify. 
Lost In men's locker room of ACC during 
first week of classes: 
with "Northport" 
Sentimental value. 
Need one UCLA ticket (student or GA) Call Ken 1141.  Wanted: GA or student tickets to Dayton game. Call 277-3422.  Sundancers have more funll 2211 N. "Guy" Main It McKinley In Mishawaka. 2.56-0!r71. Is It I powerplly?.  
Need UCLA tlx GA or student for former Blue sweatpants ND football players. Will pay mega written on them. bucks!!! Call Rocky, 1855. Call John 1651.  Sand M friends from Davton would love to see their tum whipped and beated. Need Uckets, Joe, 3489.  Need ride to Ann Arbor area, Feb. 3·5. Will share expenses. Call Dusty, 4·1·5183. Brian Ulicny: Be It known that In the great barnyard of  
Need GA tickets for any home basketball watch bracelet last game. Call Dave at1146. Call Susan at .  NEED: 4 GA b-ball tickets to any • remaining home game. Paul 3115 or 3134.  life, swine will always come out on top.-Your favorite Wed. copy reader. Need ride to Chlca~o. Feb. 3·5, will share expenses. Cal Margie, 4·1·5183.  
Need 2 Dayton tlx.  Call Ray at 8686.  
En~lneer· nJRht. eward Need one student bleacher UCLA ticket. . Jim, 3621 or 7469.  Need 4GA tlx to Dtr.on game. 288·5126 after 5 P .  Call John  To my better four-fifths In Rm. 349, ~ring to Ufe with Sundancerlll 2211 N. You ve been the best. Thanks for the aln at McKinley In Mishawaka. support-my typing Is definitely lmprov· 25fHI971. lng. Your one-fifth In Rm. 349  
shoulder bag with Desperately need 2 GA to an~ home basketball game. Call Brad at 6 1.  I badly need 2GA tickets to either LaSalle or East Carolina. Call Gary, Bn6.  TD, Red.  Reverse It and I'll get CJ! Sweet-Knees,  
I rent. 234·7670  Wanted Oaytor1 tickets, call Ann, 4·1­5165. Mafia contract out on me unless I ~t 5 Dayton tix as soon as possible. me family members from East Coast coming in to make an offer I ean 't refuse!  Badly needed: UCLA tickets, student or GA an~ number up· to 5. Please!!! Call Mike, 77·1071. And now the last ticket request for this week. Lot's hope all those peo~le from Dayton know which gate to eras .  Your kitten Just wants you to know th1t Friday night means FEDS she loves you very much 1nd 1lways will, IS long as you remember to change my litter box every 4 d1ys. Chicago registered voters desiring absen· Purm, tee ballots lor Feb. 27 primary election CIIICO please call Kathy Byrne at 4·1·5425. ~··· Will you let me rub 19alnst your legI I promise not to scratch SENIORS:  
Help-call Guisepe at 3089.  Buy your tickets now for Clnn1bar's, $15 M.B.  
$75 utilities. Ca I Matt,  Need GA's for Dayton game, call 1840.  Need UCLA 287-6056. '¥  ticket,  any  kind.  Rob,  per couple. Tlx on sale In LIM1ns Lobby, Happy Birthday!!!! 21, huh? Enjoy! 11-2, and In N D dining hills mon-frlday. Mom and the staff  

Lost: One gold Thursday In the bar area. 4·1-4536. 
Lost-sliver digital watch near In~ Bulldln~ Sunday 
o ered. Ca I John at 17 
Lost: Small green valuable contents in the main circle bus stop. Call 7838. 
For Rent 
3 room furnished apt. on Port~e Ave., reference, deposit, and $145. Tenant pays electric. 
Male roommate needed for NO ~ts. per month plus 233·2354. 
And lit's get rid of Scoop tDollll 
Need 3 tix for Darvon game. Call Cindy, 5762. Desperate y need! l 
Wanted: Barth's Church Dogmatics. Call 
Wanted 
ND-5MC students,
ed Laarman, 256-0814, after 6. 
DesJ:atel~ need Dayton bb tickets, Prlcllce J:r flftlea and disco dance 
stu tor A. Will pay good money, call 1t1p1 for alenUne's D1y. 
Larry 1205.
Need ride to IU/Bioorn~ton, Fri. Feb. 
2. Leave around noon. Ishare driving 
SUndancer 111 number one. 2211 N.
and expenses. Call JB at 1161. 
M1ln It MCkinley In MIShiWika. seat) UCLA tlx-! Please call fiJ7. 2.5fi.O!r71.
Help! Bobby d1$rately need 4 ~dded 
PART TIME JOBS: Excellent pay...work whenever~u have time...no obligation. 
Desperately need 1 or 2 student or GA Lola will be at Fisher 48's big bash onWrite: S MCHOICE, Box 530, State 
tlx. Call 4-1-4103. Friday night.
College, Pa., 16801...and start earning 
next week. 
I need any UCLA tlx. Call 4-1-4908. 
Interested In summer camp jobs? 
Need Dayton Tix, call Tim 8821.
Counselors-instructors wanted for pres· tige private boys and girls camps near Kalamazoo. 
Lawrence Seeger Needed: 5 GA tlx for Dayton. John 8894. 
1765 Maple Northfield, Ill. 
60093 Wanted: 1 or 2 student or GA UCLA tickets. Will pay good $$$$. Call F.J. 1222. 
For sale: Marantz Amp. 70 RMS watts/ 
THE ND STUDENT PLAYERS What hapfe:ns to super-macho movie hero Jed erlcho who secretly writes kiddie books as ahedge ~alnst asagging career? T7t out and fin out. Parts are available or four males and three females In Jack Sharkey's hilarious comedy, Double Exposure, the spring ~roductlon of the N 0 Student Players. 
ry outs will be held Tuesda~, February 6, and Wednesday, February at 7 PM In the basement of LaFortune. No exper­ience necessary. 
Sundancersareforlovers!! 2211 N. Main at McKinley In Mishawaka. 256-0971. 
FEDS swlr.IJS back Into action this Fridaynight. 
AMEN INC: HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY at Nickle's, 4-6. All are welcome. Beers 3 for adollar, and 7&7 for 50 cents. 
Sundancersturnyouon!! 2211 N. Main at McKinley In Mishawaka. 256-0971. 
Tom Perrucclo was happy to see his friends from Indiana during break. While he is recuperating from his Illness he would be pleased to receive mall from the ND community. 
7 Orange Rd. Middletown, CT. 06457 
Anne Johnson, R.N. 

Business Opportunity. llllnlducl Sun­daiiCII' tD your frllllds. Apply­
2211 N. Main It McKinley In MlahaWIU, or call 25fi.GII71. 
Rumor his Is that Tom "Rude Action" Jackson will grace Garroll Hall's 2nd floor ~~ tonight with his prBSdnce. What a 
n !! 
Pam, 
I make ~ou lall!lh while you make me cry. I bel eve It's time for me to 1~. Te ulero. Carl 
P.S. Olive Juice 
~--------------~--------------~----------------~~------~--------------~--------~--~ 
Lone~ freshman celebrating her first birth ay aw:r. from home. Needs Iovin'!! Please call .B., 1281. 
Karen­Don't miss the Personals next week. 
Christie Jo: Happy Birthday beautiful beautiful!! Mark 
Hey, did ru ever Wlnt tD 1U1W your room1111te can do It on
Now J::: 

V1lentfne's Dey It 1nll Gm. 
'For something wild and refreshing, try a red-head. 
SOPHOMORES: Formal Committee meeting on Monda~, Feb. 5 at 6:30 In Dillon asement. or more Info call Pat eonklln or Frank Browne. 
Bob, This Is your very own personal. F 
There are two kinds of people In the world-Those with natural red-hair and those who wish they had lt. 
Juniors! Juniors? Juniors? Celebrate Ground Hogs Day!!! $2.()()-provldes lots of beer. 
To the group of guys from the Holy Cross ski trip, thanks lor a terrific weekend!! weekend! 
Take care, 
channel. ~) and/or Fisher ST-640 speakers ( /pair) Call Sundance, 8916. 
Hundreds of 8-track tapes for sale. Good condition. Call Brad at 6931 
HP-25 calculator, fully programmable, scientific. Call1780. 
DAYTON, DAYTON, DAYTONIII Get the picture? I need tickets. As many as possbile in any combination. Call John at 3089. 
., 
I don't need any tickets for any game, since I have my seat already, so don't call Mark at 8629. 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun., t 9-7. Ralph c::r.erson, 1303 Buchanan . 2 B·BALL TIX FOR Dayton, UCLA, or Road, Niles. ·2888. LaSalle-·call 8661. 
Dual 12290 turntable with Shure car· Need ride to Purdue this weekend. Will tridge. Call Tim, 1219. share driving and expenses. Call 3560. 
I need UCLA tickets badly. Call Matt,
Tickets 
1780. 
Desperate!!! Need student UCLA ticket, $$$. Call John, 8864. 
Will sell suitemates or provide much cash for UCLA student tickets. Call Mike at 1619. 
Need 2 Dayton GA tickets, will pay $$$ • Doug 8641. 
De:rrately need Dayton tix--GA or stu ent. Call 8007. 

Friday, February 2, 1979 -page 16 
Irish All-American 

Krause celebrates birthday 

by Paul Mullaney Assistant Sports Editor 
It was halftime of the 1979 Cotton ·Bowl Classic, and Notre Dame trailed Houston, 20-12. During the intermission Irish Athletic Director Edward "M~se" Krause joined Connie Alexander and Tom Hedrick of CBS radio for a special interview. 
''There have been many great comebacks in the history ofNotre Dame," noted Krause when asked of his second-half predic­tion. "We're g~nna come back in the second half and win." 
That statement slightly dumb­founded Hedrick, but any Notre Dame fan tuned in to the broad­cast should have taken it as gospel truth, for perhaps no one is as knowledgeable about Notre Dame athletics as is Krause. 
After all, Krause's association with du Lac took root in 1930, making him the legendary link between the time of Knute Rockne and the present. His name is synonymous with Notre Dame athletics, let alone with many changes that have taken place withiii the athletic frame­work of the American university. 

At only 17 years of age, Krause came to Notre Dame with his brother, Phil, to pursue a collegiate football career. Things then, of course, weren't handled in the manner they are today. 
''In those days there were no athletic scholarships,'' em­hasizes Krause, who is cele­brating his 66th birthday today. ''You had to work your way through school. Phil and I both worked as waiters in the cafeteria during our time at Notre Dame.'' 
No one remembers Krause for his cafeteria work, however, for it took virtually no time at all for the native Chicagoan to catch the eye ofRockne, who has left perhaps a greater lasting impression on Krause than any other man. 
"Rockne very seldom in those days used sophomores (freshmen couldn't play) because of their inexperience,'' recalls Krause. "And I remember after our 1930 national championshiJ? year the freshman team, of which I was a part, was invited to Rockne's banquet for the football squad. 
"During that banquet he talked about the future and the 1931 team. The old-timers told me it was the ftrst time they ever heard Rockne pay a compliment to a freshman. ·As he talked about the next season, he men­tioned that this 'Moose' Krause, a freshman tackle, would fmd a spot someplace in the lineup. And I just about fell out of my charr. . , 
Krause, who never had the opportunity to play qn Rockne's famous "shock troops," moved. immediately into a regular spot at tackle, winning monograms for his play in each of his three varstty seasons. 
But his greatest collegiate athletic heroics were accomplish­ed on the basketball court as a center, In fact, his accomplish­ments were so great that he was selected three times as an All­Amt;rican eager, makin~ him the only two-sport All-American in Notre Dame history until Bob 
[continued on page 14] 

ND downs upset-minded Xavier 
by Mark Perry Assistant Sports Editor 

Strange things can happen to a basketball opponent when you are the number one team in the country. The team that you thought was so small all of the sudden seems just a little bit taller. Wbat you thought was going to be an easy win turns into an unexpected struggle. 
Top-ranked Notre Dame ran into one of these "possessed". teams last night, as they had to ftght off a tou~h challenge from Xavier Universtty, holding on for a 66-57 win at the ACC. 
The visiting Muskateers came into the game as 23-point under­dogs, but as Irish coach Digger Phelps noted after the game, ''Xavier came here ready to play:' 
''Because we are number­one," Phelps noted, "teams are goint to play with this intensity. Xavier played with a lot of emotion. Anybody we play can get psyched UJ? like that." 
For a while 1t seemed that the Irish were never going to bring the Muskateers down from their emotional . high. The visitors scored the ftrst two baskets of the game and held that four point lead with 7:48 left in the fust half, 15-11. Six points came on outside jumpers by Xavier guard Nick Daniels. 
But four points by Kelly 
Tripucka on a jumper and two . free throws plus a basket by Rich ~calming gave ND their ftrst lead 
at 17-15. 
After Xavier retaLiated with 
three straight points, Tripucka, 
who was selected the game's 
most valuable player, connected 
on a layup to put the Irish in the 
lead for good, 19-18. The lead 
grew to three by halftime, as 
Notre Dame lead 30-27. 
The Irish, who went into the 
game leading the nation in fteld 
goal percentage at 56.3 per cent, 
were ice cold in the ftrst half, 
hitting only 12 of 29 from the 
floor, 41.3 per cent. 
Meanwhile Xavier, who dis­
played the same patience on 
offense and tight defense that 
Notre Dame usUally employs, hit 
11-22 in the opening half. 
But the home team returned to 
form in the second half. The Irish 
outscored Xavier 22-12 in the ftrst 
ten · and a half minutes of the: 
second stanza, building the lead 
to 52-40. 
Xavier was not dead yet. 
The Muskateers outscored the 
Irish 16-7 over the next nine 
minutes, and trailed by only 
three points with 35 seconds left, 
60-57. Xavier guard Nick Walker 
helped spark the comeback, scor­
ing eight of those points, and 
Daniels added four. 
The Irish fought off Xavier's 
full-court press from this point 
on, and clutch free throws by 
Tracy Jackson and Bruce Flowers 
took Notre Dame out of danger . 
The Irish were deadly from the. 
field in the second half, hitting 14 
of 18 to bring their percentage up 
to 55.3. 
Tripucka lead all scorers with 18 
points (7 -12 from the fteld and 4-7 
from the line). Jackson was the 
only other Irish player in double . ftgures, scoring 13 points. 
Walker tallied 16 and Daniels 15 
to lead Xavier. ,. 
The Irish played the entire game 
without the services of Bill 
Hanzlik, who has a contusion of 
the thigh from an injury suffered 
in practice on Wednesday. 
"We lacked concentration on our 
press, not picking up as well,'' 
Phelps noted. ''Hanzlik's injury 
hurt us here, since he is our best 
defensive player and strongest 
presser." 
Phelps said that Hanzlik will 
take it easy until Saturday even­
ing's game against Dayton, "and 
we'll play it by ear from there." 
Xavier coach Tay Baker, who 
has already announced his retire­
ment after this season, was 
happy with his team's effon. 
"We were/leased to be here, 
and please that we played so 
well. 
"Playing the number-one team in the country is a great incentive to play ru: ,well.~ you can,'' Baker added. I thirik that we played 
[continued on page 13] 

Belles ring out win over Tri-State 
by Beth Huffman · ously remaining close. It was not 
Sports Writer until the final few seconds were 
· ticking away that SMC managed! 

The Belles of Saint Mary's to pUll ahead and hold the lead. rang out their ftfth victory of the In the ftrst half, the two teamS season by seizing a 72-68 triumph tossed the lead back and forth in over Tn-State University, Tues-a fury of basket exchanges. 
day ;at Angela Athletic Facility .. Neither team held more than a SMC, possibly still shocked by four point advantage at any time their 70-43 loss at the hands of throu~h the half until Saint the Notre Dame women on Mary s began its drive. With a Saturday, had a rough time little less than two minutes handling TSU throughout the remaining in the first period, the game. The two closely matched Belles were trailing 29-28 when teams scrapped their way they suddenly surged ahead to through each minute of the hit three straight fteld _goals contest with .. the score continu-pushing them to:> 34-29 half-time 
..._--------~-----~-..........---­
edge. 
The start of the second half saw Saint Mary's talent dim and Tri-State's shine as TSU tallied six unanswered points. The Belles called a much needed time out with almost ftve minutes gone. SMC had failed, thus far, to chalk up any second half points. Saint Mary's returned to the court and immediately showed that their troops had come to play -and win. The Belles battled back to regain th.eir lead at 40-39. 
TSU was not yet ready to call it 
[continued on page 13] Kelly Tnpucka provided some key baskets_ in Notre Dame's struggle with Xavier last night. [photo by Phil johnson] 


Grapplers go to NCC 
by Bill Marquard Sports Wn"ter 

''This is the weekend to turn things around, the weekend to score a team reversal or sorts," asserts Notre Dame wrestling coach Ray Septa as he reflects on the team's performance the last ten days. 
"What's left for us now is to learn from those losses last week and then try to forget them. It's a whole new ballgame this week­end --we can use this to regain our confidence. '' 
And the pressure is certainly on the Irish this weekend, as they prepare to defend their National Catholic Championship crown to-· night and tomorrow at ] ohn Carroll University in Cleveland, Ohio. 
The tournament features top Catholic teams from around the nation, includin Marquette, Se­ton Hall, Dayton, St. John's, and this year's host and tourney favorite John Carroll. 
"Rather than shooting for team balance this weekend, we're going to place more of an emphasis on each individual wetght class. Everyone on the team has had a chance to challenge for whatever weight they want to wrestle at, and I'm filling in the gaps in the lineup accordingly,'' explains Sepeta, the National Catholic Coach of the Year for three years running .. 
Co-captain George Gedney (14-11), last year's National Cath­olic runner-up, opens the Irish line-up at 118. Freshman Curt Rood (2-2), who slimmed down from his usual 134 pounds, will handle the chores at 126, while co-captain Dave DiSabato (17-7)., last year's runner-up at 126, will anchor the team at 134. 
continued on a e 14] 





