
~-~-----------~-~ ~-­
• • • United Way -page 5 

/ '--:­
MONDAY, OCTOBE~ 1979 
Campus g;roups to appeal monetary allocations 
by Mary Fran Callahan 
Eleven clubs and organizations will appeal their student government fund allocations at the Board of Commissioners meeting Wednesday night. 
In addition to the budget appeals, the board also plans to discuss the complimentary ucket policy. Commissioners contacted yesterday expressed diverse views on the subject and some are reportedly reconsidering their positions. 
A two-thirds majority of the 9-member council is needed to override the current procedure of designating $2700 of student fees for the purchase of free concert tickets for members of student government. 
At the board meeting last Friday, board members confirmed a plan to request an increase in the Student Activity fee. The commissioners petition will petition the Board of Trustees this Thursday for a annual student fee of $20 rather than the current liililiillooli'!'!""~ 
VOL. XIV NO. 35 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
$17. The reason for the increase has been cited as the tight student budget compounded by the general inflationary situation. 
Dissatisfied groups slated to appeal the September budget allocations include: American Institute ofArchitects, BlackCultural Arts Commission, CILA, Gymnastics Club, International Students' Organization, ND-SMC Right to Life, and the Pep Rally Committee. 
Four grouJ;>s-the Arnold Air Society, College Bowl, SailingClub, and the Soctology Club -which applied for funds in September and received no allocations will also appeal. 
The board has allotted only $1 )00 from the student budget for appeals. In order to accommodate the dissatisfied groups, the board may have to subtract form funds allocated to the Hall PresidentsCouncil, the dubs and organizations or the Student Union. 
Students wishing to express views to their elected representa­tives on the budget allocations or the complimentary ticket policy should attend Wednesday's 6 p.m. meeting in the Hayes/Healy board room. 

Cargo pla1~es ferry food and supplies in attempt to avert Cambodian famine 
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) ­Cargo planes ferried tons of food and other relief supplies yesterday to Phnom Penh for Cambodia's starving people, but organizers of the emergency international airlift said they feared a famine might not be averted. 
On the Thai-Cambodian bor­
der, meanwhile, a mortar attack 
from the Cambodian side !killed 
five Cambodian refugees and 
injured 12 others in a camp on 
Thai territory. Thai soldiers 
said Vietnamese troops or sol­
diers of the Hanoi-backed Cam­
bodian government were be­
lieved responsible. 
The two mortar rounds fell in the Thap Prik camp, 12~· miles east of Bangkok. Afterward Thailand moved reinforcements into the border area, where 34,000 sick and starving Cam­bodians have fled in the past five days. 
The Cambodian government gave the go-ahead for the relief program Saturday, and it got under way even though formal agreement has been held up over the government's insis­tence that no food should be given to the followers of de­posed Premier Pol Pot. 
Vietnamese and Cambodian government forces continue to battle Pol Pot's guerrillas in the Cambodian countryside. 
Thirty nations have pledged more than $110 million to the relief effort, coordinated by the Red Cross and the U.N. Chil­dren's Emergency Fund Two planes carried )) tons of food But the major aid groups are into Phnom Penh yesterday, sticking with their pohcy of but officials of the international "even-handed relief' to people agencies estimated 900 tons a under the control of both sides, day would be needed. despite strong objections by the 
The planes also carried four Phnom Penh government. Red Cross and UNICEF offici­The government has refused als. formal agreement with UNICEF 
In a new_ estimate, UNICEF and the Red Cross as long as spokesman Jacques Danois said this policy is in force, but the 165,000 tons of food would be agencies still funnel supplies needed over the next six across the Thai border to areas months to avert a famine. A controlled by the Pol Pot forces number of relief operations that and decided to go ahead with could help reach that goal are the airlift to Phnom Penh. still in planning stages, but 

more than 10,000 tons of food are scheduled to be sent in by Jordan tells 500 · sea by the end of the month. The funds committed to the airlift include an initial pledge 

Most blacks remain 'disadvantaged'
of $7 million and eventually as 
much as $30 million from the by Phyllis Washington United States. 
Australia, the first nation to Vernon Jordan, president of send in aid, bypassed formal the National Urban League, relief programs as early as June · told a crowd of over 500 people and made its own deliveries to last Friday night that while the refugees on the Thai-Cam­there has been progress for bodian border. Britain has some blacks in the t:Wenty-five pledged at least $2.2 million, years since the Brown vs. Board The European Common Market of Education decision, the _ma­has made an initial pledge of jority of blacks ''have rematoed $5.6 million. disadvantaged.''
The changing estimates of Jordan, speaking at the Athle­how much relief is needed -a tic and Convocation Center, figure that has risen from 700 mentioned four areas where. tons a day -reflect the difficul­there has been progress for ties aid groups are facing with a some blacks, but not for the reluctant government in a coun­majority of black people; em­try that has been decimated by ployment, inc;ome, education war, famine and the disruptive and housing.
policies of Pol Pot, who was Examining the progress blacks toppled in January by the have made in employment and Vietnamese-led forces. the present status of blacks in 

ofthe game see page 12. [photo by john Calcutt] 
S~Cgovern01ent 
Internal problems spark conflict 
by Pam Degnan Senior StaffReporter 
Internal problems within the Saint Mary's Board of Govern­ance sparked a confrontation last night between Pia Trigiani, Student Body president and the board members. During the re~ularly scheduled meeting, Tngiani cited "lack of commu­that area, Jordan said that has gone up?" although "some blacks are in In terms of income, Jordan jobs never oren to us before, said that Urban League figures the masses o black people are show that 9 percent of black still in the worst jobs our society families are in the upper in­offers." come bracket, but the other 91 

. Jordan also pointed out that percent are poor or nearly poor. the black unemployment rate is He added that the ·'typical'' higher now than it was in 19)4, black family income was (JI and when blacks marched on percent of the "typical" ·"hit'' Washington for jobs. The b I a c k family income in the late 1rJ(,(ls, unemployment rate for youths but that same percentage hr>~ is up to 60 percent in the cities now gone down to )7 percem. and "our neo-conservative Jordan also talked about the friends and critics," Jordan progress made by blacks in said, ·''blame it in on the education since the Brown de­minimum wage." cision. He said, "More black Jordan asked, ''Why then (if children attend racially isolated the cause of unemployment for schools than in 1954.,-And, he black youths is the minimum said, even though more black wage) has white unemployment students are attending colleges, gone down while at the very [<·ontinued 011 page 8] 
same time, the minimum wage nication between individual board members," as the prin­ciple difficulty. 
. "My purpose in confronting the board about our difficulties is to emphasize the importance of each individual board member to communicate not only with me but with each other, Trigi­ani stated. 
Trigiani, in her talk, called for a re-evaluation of the effective­ness of the board. "If we, the board, can work together as a cohesive unit by communica­ting with one another, then we should be able to achieve our goals," said Trigiani. 
!rigiani maintained that apa­thy is not the underlyin~ reason for the lack of commumcation. She explained that by discus­sing individual problems, the board would be able to function more effectively as a governing body. 
"I want you (the members) to become aware of each other's feelings. By not working together, you are only making yours and my job more difficult, 

_ Trigiana added. Mary Ellen Maccio, Co-Ex commissioner on the board 
views Trigiani' s confrontation as a positive sign that she is concerned with the members' lack of communication. "We all work well together. But because it is right before mid­terms, people are unusually tense. It is a positive sign that Pia is sensitive to our problems, Maccio said. 
In her closing remarks to the board, Trigiani expressed the importance of the Board's res­ponsibility to the student body. "I don't want to see what happened in previous years to happen again. I realize that the problem of non-communication occurs in every organization. But we must iron out our difficulties in order to effective­ly represent our student body,'' she concluded. 
Trigiani's speech was met with some mixed reactions. Board members, however, were unavailable for comment. 
On the formal agenda, the board discussed the proposed dates for the Hall Speaker Series. They also discussed the formation of a Liturgy Comittee which would try to improve the daily liturgies on campus. 

, I 
r 
' 
l , ~ ~ 
, 


News in brief 
Black leaders arrive for Israeli conferenc 
TEL AVIV Israel (AP) -A delegation of black American civil rights and labor leaders arrived here yesterday, and a spokesman for the group said their condemnation of the Palestine Liberation Organization "is identical with that of the people of Israel." The seven-member group is to meet Prime Minister Menachem Begin and other Israeli leaders durin~ its week-long visit. William Pollard, director of the civil nghts department of the AFL-CIO, said the visit was ''in no way connected" to the visit last month of the Rev. Jesse 
ackson, head of theiChicago-based civil rights group People United to Save Humanity. Before leaving the United States, delegation member Bayard Rustin, President of New York's 
A. Philip Randolph Institute, said the group sought to make clear "that Israel must have from the U.S. whatever is necessary for her survival." 

Weather 
Increasing cloudi~ess today.. High in the low to mid 60s. Mostly c!oudy ~omght. Low 1n .the low to mid 40s. Mostly cloudy w1th a sltght chance ofram tomorrow. High in the mid to upper 60s. 


CamP-_us_-----4 
12 noon SPANISH TABLE join professors and native speakers. sponsored by spanish club. SOUTH DINING HALL. platform tables near exit doors. 
12:15 
pm DEVELOPMENT WORKSHOP "a marxist dilemma for social contract theory," prof. james p. sterba, nd. sponsored by economics dept. LIBRARY LOUNGE 

12:15 
pm FACUL1Y FORUM "the british disease government intervention in a free market society,'' patricia hodgson, ed. of "crossbow." 121 HAYES-HEALY. sponsored by college of business admn. 


2 pm NATIONAL ABORTION CONFERENCE (sessions are open to nd, smc community as seating is available). 2 pm, ~~lman mccarthy, washin~ton post, ''abortion & the med1a 
IS the. treatme~t fair' ; 4 pm, henry p. david, dir. transnational fam1ly research inst., "the abortion decision: nat'l and int'l. perspectives."; 8 pm, judith blake ucla ''determinants ofattitudes toward abortion in the u.s.:, ALL CONFERENCES IN CCE AUD. 
3:30pm TOUR computing center. 115 CCMB 
4 pm LECTURE "the british disease: the effects of socialism on britain since world war II," patricia hodgson, ed. of "crossbow," HAYES-HEALY AUD. sponsor: finance club. 
4 pm LECTURE "abortion & the law of god," edward j. murphy, nd. 101 LAW BLDG. abortion perspective series. 

4:30 pm REILLY LECTURE "intermolecular diels-alder reactions in the synthesis of natural products," prof. samuel danishefsky, u. of pittsburgh. 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE. sponsor: chemistry dept. 
6 pm VOLLEYBALL st. mary's vs. st. francis. ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILI1Y. 
6:45pm ROSARY daily at GROTTO 
7 pm PSYCHOLOGY CLUB organizational meeting. 119 HAGGAR HALL 

7:30 
pm FILM "mr. hulot's holiday," ENGR. BLDG. nd/smc spdr. 

7:30 
pm PERFORMANCE youth goodwill mission of the repuolic of china (taiwan), WASHINGTON HALL. 


8 pm LECTURE "r. h. huxley's vision of science and religion," david roos, northwestern u. GALVIN AUD. sponsored by philosQphy & arts & letters dept. evolutionary images of humanity series. 
8:30pm TALK question & answer period with dan devine. sponsored by the stanford & flanner academic commissions. LIB. AUD. 
Monday, October 15, 1979 -page 2 
Israeli Cabinet allocates land~ for settlements on Jordan River 
JERUSALEM (AP)-The Israeli Cabinet, trying to defuse 1_ an explosive domestic dispute, decided yesterday to allocate more. state land for ) ewish settlements in the occupied West Bank of the ) ordan River but firmly rejected settlers' demands to seize private Arab property. 
''The principle of the govern­ment P?l~cy is not to confiscate or requiSition or expropnate or seize any inch of privately owned land unless it IS absol­utely nec<l:ssary for security reasons," 'said Cabinet Secre­tary Aryeh Naor, announcing the compromise. 
Prime Minister Menachem Begin's Cabinet pored over maps and legal opintons on land ownership for six hours to find state-owned land for the expan­sion of five existin~ settlements and the construction of a new ) ewish city in the predomin­antly Arab area. The city, Erfat, will be populated in part by Jews from New York. 
Naor said the Cabinet found no security justification for the expansion of the settlements, and would relocate the new city, whose original siting has been challenged in the courts by Arab landowners. 
•'There is enough state land available for those settlements and for other purposes serving the Arab population,'' he said. 
In another development, a group of vlack American civil rights leaders arrived in Tel Aviv for meetings with Begin 

Here's the second clue to the "Find the Trojan" contest: ''With the guardian of the halls of Sound and Fury, signifying nothing.'' 
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor: John Smith Asst. Night Editors: Darrell Nolan, Mike Jans 
Copy Editor: L_ynne Daley 
Layout Staff Deirdre Mur­phy News Editor; Mike Lewis 
Editorial Layout: Ann (where's Joe?) Gales Features Layout: Kathy Con­nolly Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists:. Marilyn Broderick, 

1 Paula Shea, Beth Willard,. Mary Beth Budd EMT: Terri Blazi Proofreader: Mark Rust ND Day Editor: Bob Berno­ski . SMC Day Editor: Lisa Stan­czak Photographer: Dave Rum­bach Guest appearance: Pam "tired" Degnan 
The Observer [USPS 581 !1201 Is published Monday through Friday o­cept during exam and viCition periods. The Observer Is publiabed by the students of Notre 011111 IIIII Saint Miry's Colilgl. Sublcrlpllla lillY bl purcllaled for S20 per yur [$11 per 1811111tlrl from The Observer, 1'.0. biX 
0. Nltn Dame, Indiana 4111556. Slclnd class ~· paid, Notre Dame, In­
diana . 
The Observer 11 1 lnltllblr of 1111 Auoclaled Pna. AH IIPfldictlln rigllts an nstrv1c1. 


and other Israeli officials to endorse U.S. guarantees for the security of the Jewish state. 
Delegation member Bayard Rustin, president ofNew York's 
A. Phihp Randolph Institute, said the visit was calculated to offset support for the Palestine Liberation Organization voiced by some American blacks after Andrew Y ound resigned as U.N. a~bassador in August. YO:Jmg qutt after · an unauthon:ted meeting with· a representative of the PLO. 
Yesterday's Cabinet decision was a setback for Gush Emunim, a settlers' movement that advocates the annexation of the West Bank by Israel. 
Political tension mounted before the meeting as Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan threat­ened to resign if the govern­ment changed its non­expropriation policy. On the other side, the National Relig­ious Party, a kev partner m Begin's ruling' coalition, threatened to quit if no solution was found to allow the settle­ments to expand. 


Over 200 students gather for Urban Plunge workshop 
Over 200 students gathered yesterday afternoon for the 1980 Urban Plunge Orientation Workshop. In the 3 hour period, participants listened to a number ofspeakers talk about the structure and organization of the Plunge, the urban en­vironment and its institutions, and the Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry (CCIM). 
Economics professor Thomas Swartz and government profes­sor ) ohn Roos spoke to the group on"Econcomic AsJ;>ects ofthe Urban Environment' and ''A Political Perspective on Neighborhoods". Dr. Helen Volkomener, S.P. (Director of CCUM) talked about ''The Role ofCCUM in our Nation's Cities' while Rev. Daniel Tarmey dis­cussed ''The Relatinship of the Powerless to Urban Institu­tions." The student's perspec­tive on the Urban Plunge was also shown, through an Audio­Visual presentation and some personal reflections by Lou Reifschneider, an UP Task Force member. 
Tonight there will be a second workshop for all those who turned in anapplication for the Urban Plunge but were unable to attend yesterday's meeting. This "make-up" workshop will be in the library lounge from 7 to 9 p.m. Anyone who does not attend one of the two work­shops will not be allowed to make the 1980 Plunge. 
. ,.... .. 


Trojan 

100 -11 x 17 posters only $10.00 203 N. Main South Bend 289-6977


clue 2 

the wiz of theprintingbiz! 
need print~ in a hurry? 
'-k'.. --­

f-----ru;FORm~;COR01 
1 In th• 100 C•nt~r I I\ oH•rs 10% oH on I
I 
EVERYTHING I 1 with ID & coupon I, 
RECORDS, TAPES, paraph•rnalia I




L----------------­

',Jl;.J:.· •.. 

. II._.,,.,. • •· r_ ~ ' ­

A young fan sneaks a 11Jeak ofthe Notre Dame Invztational Tennis Tournament. [photo by Dave Rumbach] 
Newsweek acknowledges 
theology program 
by Paul Mullaney 
Newsweek magazine has acknowledged Notre Dame as having the "Best undergrad­uate theology program offered in any American university." The acknowledgement appeared in the magazine's Oct. 8 issue, in which a special report looked at the Roman Catholic Church in the United States. 
Fr. David Burrell, chairman of the Notre Dame Theology Department, was quite ple2.sed with the accolades, but played down the importance of such a distinction. 
"When I was teaching in Bangladesh in 1975, the people in the city ofDacca claimed that t~eir city ~;>ark. was the biggest c1ty park m die world," com­mented Burrell. 'I told them that we have people in Texas that make the same type of claims. Comparisons of this sort are nice, but they are overplayed.'' 
Newsweek noted that Notre Dame did not offer a bacca­laureate degree in theology-­even to seminarians--as recently as 15 years ago. The article emphasized that today, however, the country's top_ -tbeology program is entirely made of laymen and laywomen. 
' 
Panofsky makes SALT plea 
by Tom Koegel 
Dr. Wolfgang K. H. Pano:fsky called for approval of the SALT II treaties as ''the only way available to us to reverse the nuclear weapon build-up" in a speech to a capacity Library Auditorium audience. "Don't let this opportunity pass," he advised. 
Panofsky is the head of the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, and a member of several commissions dealing with the proliferation of nuclear weapons. He is also an expert on the detection of nuclear test explosions. . 
The SALT II treaty is a result of mutual concern by the Sovi ets and the Americans about the growing nuclear weapon inventory, Panofsky said. The world nuclear weapon inventory is now approximately 40,000. Panofsky calls this inventory "too large to be possibly used without endangering civi'liza­tion.'' 
Panofsky sees SALT as an inhibitor to the rapid build-up of nuclear arsenals. "SALT II arrests the momentum of fur­ther deployment of many nucle­ar weapons,'' he stated. 
SALT II consists of three separate sections, Panofsky sa1d. A formal treaty ,Places various numerical limitations of nuclear armament, and guaran­tees for the verification of compliance with the treaties. The treaty would expire in 1981, contains items on which a positive agreement could not be reached, but which will come up for further discussion in any future SALT talks. 
The "Statement of Princi­ples'' provides an overview of topics which were not consider­ed in depth, but which are 
[continued on page 4.] 

Hodgson to lecture today on Great B_ritain politics 
Patricia Hodgson, television producer, free1ance journalist and editor of the British politi­cal quarterly ''Crossbow , will present two lectures, both open to the public, today at Notre Dame. 
Ms~ Hodgson will meet with the College of Business Admin­istration faculty forum at 12:15 
p.m. 
in the board room of the Hayes-Healy Building to dis­cus_s 'The British Disease: Government Intervention in a Free Market Economy." At 4 

p.m. 
in the Hayes-Healy aud­itorium Ms. Hodgson will discuss the effects of socialism on Britain since World War II, sponsored by the Finance Club. 


Ms. Hodgson has had wide experience in British politics, from working as a speech writer for leading Cabinet ministers to running for election to Parlia­ment. A regular contributor to the London "Daily Telegraph" 


as 'best' 
''We have grown into an 
excellent department,'' said 
Burrell. We've worked to build 
an excellent faculty centered on 
collegiate teaching. I prefer to 
cons1der it as collegiate theo­
logy rather than undergraduate 
theology. 

''We function with the Saint 
Mary's theolo~y department, 
and we have a Joint major with 
Saint Mary's. That really 
enhances our department, and 
is part of the reason we have 
such a range of offerings. Our 
main concern is keeping front 
and center in our reflectlqns.'' 
Fr. John Dunne, professor of 
Theofogy, was quoted in · 
Newsweek as saying that 
spiritual understanding, as. 
opposed to absolute certainty, 
is the essential goal of teaching­
today' s theology. 
''The quest for certainty IS 
self-defeating, whether it is 
about God, about someone we 
love or about the significance of 
our own selves," Dunne told 
Newsweek. "What we can 
hope for, though, is whatJesus 
had--an assurance that a foving 
Father is with us and that our 
confidence is not in vain. " 
The Newsweek report was 
prompted by Pope John Paul's 
visits to Ireland and the United 
1

' States . 
producer for the British Broad­casting Corporation (including its "Presented Today" morning talk show(, chairman of the Bow Group (one of Britain's leading young conservative organ­IZations), and a member of the Haringey Borough Council. 
Presents·, THE ALBUM HOUR 
Monday thru Thursday n1te from 12-1 
· Featuring a new release album played in its entireity. Brought to you by Camelot Music in the Umv.. Park Mall, where every 7.99 L.P. featured is offered to N.D. and S.M.C. for 5.99 with J.D. And each Wednesday nite a new 
.album is , all from Camelot Music. 
Quick Setvice ~ at a Reasonable Ptice 
on all shoe tepalts zlppet tepails and leathet tepails 
We cauy many style• of boots also, Convetse tennis shoes 

Tony'S-Shoe Shop 
I 

Univetsit.u of Notte Dame 283-1144 Houts: mon-Ftl 8-5, 
·Sat 8-1 

Raffle tickets ·for Homecoming Packets still available at S.U. ticket office. $1.00 ticket 

L L
c • '42
Apditions


tor th·e · The Heiress 
Auditions for the second of four major productions by the ND--SMC Theatre 
will be held on October 14th at 1:30pm October 16th at 7:00pm. 
• open to all ND-SMC students •

r, ., 
make yout tesetvations eatly fot the 
a:::::::===. HOTEL· CALlFORN IA.:=~=I 
. .. nd homecoming dance 
length of ,stny : THURSDAY. OCTOBER 18 check in: 9 ~.m. music by one of the 
check out: 1a.m. biQ bands ~hatge: J4.00 pet petson semi­-1oom location: stepan cente1 fotmal 

sponseted by the student union social commission 
1985. and the "Guardian," she has 
tickets on s~l.e at student union oHices and dlnln halls 
The Protocol which expires in been a radio and television 

I, 
, ~ 
,
' 
' 
,' 
,
, 
r r t 
~ 
The Observer 

<e> Continental Restaurant Systems 1979 
~ 
The most delicious, most sumptuous dinners our new menu could offer ... Luscious entrees come complete with salad, vegetable, bread, and your choice of baked potato, rice, or french fries ... Our modest prices complete this tasty picture . . . So add a little spice to your dining. 

DINNER FOR $5.45 
When you're really hungry, order a complete dinner with all the trimmings at a price that tastes as good as the food ...There's succulent prime rib, fresh fish, and saucy teriyaki chicken ... It's more than a mouthful ... 
Sunday 
Noon to 4p.m. 
Mon. thru. Thurs. 
5p.m. to 7p.m. 
• 
[continued from page 3] 
important to the future of arms 
control. 
This structure is made more 
complex by the detail which is 
necessary to avoid ambiguities. 
Ambiguities hampered the ef­
fectiveness of the Vladivostok 
agreement signed by President 
Ford, Panofskyt said. These 
ambiguities led to a major 
disagreement between the two 
countries in regards to the U.S. 
development of the cruise mis­
sile. 

Panofsky outlined several 
major reasons why the SALT 
treaty is to the advantage of the 
United States. 
"SALT II limits the expansion 
of the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. in the growth of strategic nuclear systems,'' Panofsky said. He pointed out that although it limits the actual expansion of systems, "SALT does not limit . the evolutio!l of U.S. strategic systems whtch are now under 
development.'' 
''The pattern of nuclear build­
up has followed a familiar 
pattern for many years," Pan­
ofsky said. "The United States 
has led the way in technological 

Those tasty creations that11 tickle your palate and tantalize· your pocketbook ... Imagine the sirloin supreme, top sirloin covered with Monterey Jack cheese, sauteed mushrooms, onions and peppers ...Or juicy beef brochette, charbroiled sirloin bits marinated in a delicious 
burgundy sauce ...There's even a fresh catch of the day for seafood lovers ...They must be tried to be believed ... 
52885 U.S. 31 North South Bend, 272-5478 
Phone for reservations 
Monday, October 15, 1979 -page 4 
• • .SALT 
developments and rapid -d~-· ploymc;ntand the Soviet Union has followed with a slower build-up which eventually sur­passes the U.S. in number but not in technical quality. At this point in time, the U.S.S.R. is ahead in the number of ICBM' s and other weapons, and would actually be forced to destroy some of its older systems." . After outlining some of the basic arguments for the approv­·all of SALT II, Panofskv exa­mined some of what he believes are common misconceptions about SALT. 
"SALT is a product of long and arduous negotiations,'' Panofsky said. "As such it does not totally benefit either side. The issue is not whether or not we get the best possible treaty, but how we get the treaty ratified. We should not fail to ratify SALT." 
Panofsky also pointed out that SALT would not eliminate any of the strategic systems now under development. He noted that the Protocol prohibits the deployment of cruise missiles on land and sea, but not in the air. He also said that the Protocol expires in 1981, which is before the missiles would be re~dy for deploy~ent an~ay;'' ' The MX mtsslle (a m1sslle system designed so that U.S. missild can be shifted to different positions underground in order to avoid attack) would be aided by the SALT treaty," 1Panofsky claimed. "Without SALT, the U.S.S.R. could be able to use multiple warhead devices to hit all the possible positions of the missiles 11nder­ground, and by process of elimination destroy them all." A common argument used against Sf\LT is that the treaty 
is-essentially unverifiable. Panofsky said that the treaty provides that the surveillance systems of either side may not be assaulted in any case short of actual war. 
''Any violation of the treaty that would be significant to the balance ·of power would be easily detectable by our surveil­lance systems," he said. 
A tactic of the anti-SALT 
forces that displeases Panofsky 
is ''criticizing the treaty on the 
basis of unrelated decisions of 
the various (presidential) Ad­
ministrations in military mat­
ters.'' 
"Holding SALT hostage be­cause of the Cuban affairs is destructive," Panofsky said. "Even if the Soviets withdrew a brigade that has been there for years, it would be taken as a sign that SALT is really a one-way deal to their advan­tage, which it is not." 
A current trend which disturbs Panofsky is the willingness of the public to see the number of nuclear weapons ''as a sign of int~rnal strength with little regard to their actual destruc­tive power. We can never view nuclear weapons as simply bargaining chips in negotia­tions.'' 
''SALT is not a major step towards disarmament, or a great change in the danger of our age. The net total of weapons without SALT would only be greater by 30 to 50 percent. SALT is simply a small step in the right direction which will change the accelera­tion of the arms race," Panof­sky stated. 
''SALT is a small step, but it is a good one," Panofsky conclu­ded. 

Washington Post columnist O>hpan McCarthy will lecture 
today at 4:30 p.m.in Roor:n 242 
of 0'Shaughnessy. 
McCarthy, who has been on the Post staff since 1968, is among speakers at the National Conference on Abortion to be held in the Center for Continu­ing Education, where he will discuss media fairness in cover­ing abortion at a 2 p.m. _session Monday. 
A graduate of Spring Hill College, Mobile, Ala., McCar­thy spent five years farming in rural Georgia before starting a journalism career. He is the author of three books--all col­lections of his columns --and has written for several maga­zines. 
The lecture, for which no topic has yet been announced, is open to all students. 



t -----------­

_,...,-­
\ . 

The Observer 

Chairman Chris Digan 1.1olds up one ofhis many United Way dollars. [photo by Dave Rumbach] 

7 4 per cent effort 


United. Way.\drive ends 
by Lynne Daley 
Last minute donations to the United Way Fund Drive on the Notre Dame campus made this year's campaign the mm;t suc­cessful ever, according to drive Chairman Chris Digan. 
Although the 74 per cent participation achieved was less than the goal of 80 per cent he set prior to the campaign, "overall, we've done better than any other year,'' Digan admitted. 
Digan, who was aided by Asststant Chairman Mike Sex­ton and Publicity Chairman Michelle Renauldo, attributed much of the success of the drive to volunteers who helped in the distribution of posters and the collection otthe donations. These volunteers include Bob Stewart, Joe Orie, Sean Digan, Anne Hesburgh and Kevin Lovejoy. 
The biggest surprise of the 1979 campaign was registered at Dillon Hall, where 100 per cent of the residents had con­tributed to the fund by the end of the first collection day. "That's amazing," Digan ex­claimed. "You've got w give those guys a lot of credit.'' 
Digan also cited both Badin 
and Grace Halls for their much­
improved performance~. over 
last year. 
Badin, along with Alumni, 
reached the 100 per cent pla­
teau last night, while Grace 
amassed over $500, the highest 
total on campus. 
Br. Joseph McTaggert, faculty 
advisor for the drive for the last. 
three years, expressed pleasure 
over the handhng of thts year's 
campaign. He praised organi­
zers Digan, Sexton and Renaul­
do for their handling of the. 
preliminary groundwork and 
commended the Hall Presi­
dent's Council (HPC) for assu­
ming the responsibihty of cam­
pus-wide collections in the 
dorms. 
"We simply couldn't do it 
without the HPC,'' McTaggert 
Said. "There is no other 
vehicle for one-on-one soliCita­
tion. Without structure in the 
dorms, we'd be back t·o bake 
sales and extortion.'' 
The money collected in this 
year's drive will be turned over 
!Monday, October 15,_ 1979 -page 5 
'Third in a series 'ND and SMC do little t~]lelp refugees 
Editor's Note--This is the last of three articles dealing wit~ Vietnamese refugees ana thezr immigration to the South Bend 
area. 

Maribe~h Moran .. StaffReporter 
"Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses, yearning to be free. The wretched refuse of your teem­ing shore, send these. the homeless, the tempest tossed to me." The inscnption on the Statue of Liberty that greeted millions of immigrants 10 New York Harbor still exists as a viable part of the American heritage. 
But neither Notre Dame or Saint Mary's as an institution seem to be fostering this heri­tage with respect to the Viet­names·e refugees. 
While many individuals of the Notre Dame /Saint Mary's community have become deeply involved 10 the plight of the refugees, Sorin Hall and a student run volunteer teaching group remain the only organiza­tions from either institution to become involved with the prob­lem. 
According to University Pres­ident Theodore Hesburgh the University as an insntution does not have the funds to directly subsidize the refugee relief. effort. 
In a question and answer period last Wednesday night at Howard Hall, Hesburgh recent­ly appointed chairman of the Select Committee on Refu~ees and Immigration, stated 'the University is a charitable in­stitution Itself. We can't afford 
~~

..18,000 albutll$ and lapes In stock 
1-ND/SffiC student checks accepted fot up~ I 1 120.00 ov•t purchase a.mount r I 
t-Open IOto 10, 7d~ a week , M 
1 
I  I  
I1 IL  River City Records Ir·rl 50970 U.S. 31 Notth I ___::::ii_~!::____•..·--·-·~-~1  

to spend the monty on the refugee problem there. We encourage our student to dp things for them--like take up a collection or something." 
Last month Hesburgh blockeJ a move by Sorin Hall to house a Vietnamese refugee in an un­used room in the dorm. Hesburgh reasoned that, "Sor­in Hall 1s for students. If they want to support ont' in South Bend, that's ,great." 
Saint Mary's president, John Duggan, was not available for comment, according to his of­fice. When referred to Public Information Services, the dir­ector, Nancy Kommers stated, ''1 am n~.·• aware that the College has done anything as an institution.'' 

· Wouldn't you rather, work for an original? c~.cck with your college placement office for details and schedules. Then talk to our campus representative. 

Xerox is an affirmative action employer (male/female) 

~MINORI'fY FORUM 8 pro. WED. OCT. 17 WASlllNGTON 
SPEAKERS INCLUDE: HALL HATHER VAN WOVELEAR 
VP FOR STUDENT AFFAIRS 
r-JOHN GOLDRICK 
DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS 
r-SISTER JOHN MIRIAM TONES 

OF PROVOST'S OFFICE 
BURN'S RENT-ALLS 2 Cu. FT. Refrig. $55 per year 

··············~················••+•
also TV's -~teatnex Carpet Oeaper 

10% off with student ID 
Large BBQ Grills Auto Tools Floc:>r Care 
·Equ1pment 


. Let us customize your kitchen and bathr09m. Also countertops, book cases, ro9m dividers, etc .... For more info 

call 287-1151 

1 
' 
1

, 
1 
1 1 1 1 
1 
1 
1 

1 
1 
1 
1 1 
1 1 1 
~ 

1 1 
' ~ ~ 
1 

r 
Monday, October 15, 1979 -page6
Editorials 
On women in the priesthoOiJ 
P. 0. Box Q
Pat Byrnes 

,Sin~e the recent visit of the pope to the U.S., 
lp\ that we are all equal in the eyes of God tne 1ssue of women pnests has been batted would this not indicate· that all should be about ~he media quite a lot. The pope reserves · admitted into the priesthood? The debate could argument. Sexism is an ancient 
the pnesthood for men, a reservation defended be ~nded h~r~, but we would have a stalemare-­Catholic sexism neurosis which has hardened by tradition and theological insight. Several 
l~gtc vs. the faith 1of~he;: pope. The pope still has into an intractable ideology.
women's organizations claim that the priesthood hts way. '(he game 1s m h1s home court. Logic Feminist theorists have longshould be opened to women; this position is must re-evaluate its game plan. a 'deep-seated sin' argued. th:lt we are not dealing based on logic stemming from the concepts of h~re with a superficial prejud­
Now comes the painful part. What if the faith 
hum!ln rig~ts. The major difficulry presented by dtce, but with a primitive
of the t>ope is correct? What does this say about 
th_e tssue ts how to reach a just compromise nghts? ' in the Church irrational fear that is probably wtthout sacrificing Christian beliefs. as old as the species. 
Remember that the gifts of men and women
My stand on the issue is uncertain. I shall try We have to recognize that 
may be different. Perhaps this somehow Dear Editor: 
to w~de thr~)Ugh the mam;r in the fairest way men like the . Pope and the
extends to the roles of men and women with
posstble, bemg open and fa1thful, understanding tradition which he represents,
respect to the J:!riesthood. If this is the case I was enraged by the Pope's
and respectful of mystery. have always been ambivalent
then the natural question to ask is "Why?" I affirmation in Philadelphia of
However, as I am far less a spiritual authority about women. The Church's
The trivial answer is, "Why not? ' It's God's the Church of Rome's decision
than the pope, and as I have witnessed this man spiritualization and ethereal­
world; He can do what He wants with it.'' ~o c<:mtinue to refuse ~ull partic­
tC? be one Jiving truly in the Spirit, I shall accept ization of women grows directly 
Unfortunately. the "trivial" answer is the only tpauon of women m all its
hts stand to be one that he holds in honest faith. o~t of a _male in!lbility to deal 
answer. Thus the explanation is sort of like a ministries. Sr. Theresa Kane's 
This is not to say that I take his side against wtth the mcarnat1onal reality of
bummer only worse. However, I will try to offer reply gladdened the heart but
those of a different viewpoint; it is to say that the the female of the species.
a bit more elaboration. left m«: ~o~dering if the tactic
pope speaks with words of faith--those who Arguing therefore w1th such 
r oppose him on this issue use words of logic--and Perhaps the priesthood is somethln.'D..i. fi.. or w.h.ic.·h..· of pettttonmg the male heir­irrati~ma_liry ~s. by definition, a
God called men alone. How would this affect arch>; is ~ot tying women into a
r I can much more easily probe words of logic than no-w1n sttuauon. To plead with 
women who wish the priesthood to be opened to no-wm sttuatton.
r I can those of faith. the alienated is to doom our­
fhem as well? It would be tough luck. As such, · Sr. Theresa Kane's address
r Now that I have sufficiently beaten around the selves to frustration, anger and 
, It wou14 also be~ test of women:s faith. In any was a model of restrained,
bush, let me beat a little closer to the roots with eventually apathy. Had ) esus
, event, 1t wouldn t be an easy rtde for women respectful moderation] yet what focused his energies on the
this word to those who follow logic here: 
r but. t~en again, ~d never, promi~(:~ faith~!tJj response did it 1rece1ve--'the education of the Pharisees his
Be careful to approach this matter with faith 
r Christtans an easy nde; He JUSt prormsed-them!IF Pope's arrogant, chauvinistic,
and not ambition. Se that your goal is to make marvelous ministry would have
, 
the strength to endure the bummer rides. · · politiking with six hundred
advances in faith and life in the Spirit rather been hopelessly bogged down. 
How then do we deal with this issue? The Italian nuns. Catholic sexism is 
r What is called for 1s a whole
than to achieve personal status. Remember that 
r pope gives. the ".no-go" o.n ~o~eo priest~. H such a deep-seated sin in the new strategy on the part of
, men are men and women are women, and that says so wtth faith that 1t 1s nght ar,td JUS Roman Church that polite
, this is !l darn good arran$ement. As Sl;lch, men women. I suspect that they
Whether we agree or disagree with the pope attempts at consciousness rais­
, have gifts to offer the fatthful communtty which need to start thinking about the 
, should embrace as our Christian and Cad~olic ing are simply not going to possibility of beginning athey have by virtue of the gift of manhoo!rthat duty to come before God in out prayers and work. Sexism, like other forms parallel church. By a parallelGod has g_iv7~ to them; acc~mpanying this gift is r petttion that His Will on this matter be made. of colonialism, will require church I do not mean to 1mply a, a. re.sponslbthry to God, vyh1ch tempers all gifts. known to us through the pop.e, His spo~esman ~<.)':: tougher strategies. radical separation, but ratherstm.darly, women have gtfts to offer by virtue ofr the Church. In the meanttme, we must watt · The current practice of, the1t womanhood; these too come wtth certain lobbyin~ the hierarchy puts alternative Catholic commun­faithfully,patiently and obediently, continually ities which would be free fromrespon_sibility. These gifts may be characteristi­seekmg the truth through. our prayers. And women tn a no-win situation. the. deforming influence of
.cally_ different, and, as such, they. may _be subject,' to different value assessments to this world. then, when we are certain that these prayers Sexism is so rooted in the male sex1sm.
mentaliry, that ""no , we ought to be ready to accept that has produced in these men an,' However, the bottom line is simple and have been ans.wered, be the answer "yes'! or.· hierarchical it 
c-omplete: We are all equal in the eyes of God. 
answer and continue to carry on our lives with alienation that is not suscept­Ann Pettzfer Walshe 
~s Christians, we are to give this paramount ible to rational, humane
faith, in the Spirit of)esus Christ. ' lillportance. 
Thre~ coins in the fountain
Doonesbury 
An Buchwald
by Garry Trudeau 
Queen of England. They don't WASHINGTON--The Trea-· have more than seven in their trust the coin because they aresury Department is very mad at pants pocket they make a hole, afraid it was minted in'Canada'.' 
all of us. We haven't taken to and all the coins dribble out into 

"1 ·don't want to hear anythe_Susan B. Anthony dollar as the street. The young people more stories. We're stuck with their experts predicted we say the dollars make a bulge in billions of these coins and we're would. their jeans, and women com­goin~ to get them into circula­Millions of dollars (paper pl~in if they take enou~h dollar tion 1fit k1lls us. Now let's hearones) went into research to coms to buy grocenes they some constructive ideas.''
develop a coin that would develop a bad back.'' 
"We could put them in cereal replace the one dollar bill. The "That's nonsense. This coin boxes as a promotion.''
Tre_asury engineers worked in was tested under the greatest ''What about printing onthe1r cellars day and night to stress conditions. We put $50 
devise something that would worth in a deputy secretary's paper dollar bills under 'In God grab the imagination of the pants pockets, threw him into We Trust' the words: 'This bill could be dangerous to your
American people. They finally the Tidal Basin and he didn't 
health'?"
came up with a foolproof design even sink. One of our women ''How about having Karl--a coin the size of a quarter department heads carried 100 Malden do a TV commercial?
with 11 sides and a picture of a cotns in her handbag for one suffragette on it. What more week and except for black and He could be pushing a wheel­
barrow and saying to the audi­
could the American people ask blue marks on her shoulder ence: 'Traveler's checks can befor? where the strap hung, there 
Apparently a lot more. When were no signs of bodtly dam­stolen--but nobody could carry off this wheelbarrow of coins. 
the coin flopped the only thing age. J\s. for the young_ people left for the Treasury officials to complammg of bulges tn their The Susan B. Anthony dollars. 
Don't leave home without
do was to call a meeting. jeans from carrying the coins, "Gentlemen, the secretary is my answer to that is, let them them.''' 
"Why don't we just use them
very upset. No matter how buy bigger jeans.", _ 
on to pay the OPEC people formany Susan B. Anthony coins ''I'm just reporting what thetr oil?" 
"!'e _put into _circulation, people our research revealed, sir. If mstst on usmg paper dollars. you ask me I think it's more "What good will that do?" 
"They'll all get hernias and be 
What can we do about it?" psychological than anything ~miserable they'll think twice"My staff has been doing else. The one dollar paper bill about raising their prices.'' 
some research to find out why has George Washington's pic­the coin won't fly. Most men ture on it. The people can't tell (~) 1979, Los Angeles Times 
SytJdicate
we've talked to say that if they Susan B. Anthony from the 
administration· of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The n~ws. is reported as accurately and 
-The Observer_ 
as obJectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor.-~ .............. .Mark Perry represe~t t~e opimon of a majority of Managing Editor..........Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Eduonal Board. Commentaries Editonal Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Edt tor .............. Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak The Obseroer is an independent their authors Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager.... ..Steve Odland ewspaper published by the students abl. to all members of ~he community, News Editor............ . ... Mark Rust Production Manfger.......Tim Sullivan f the University of Notre Dame du la, an? .~he free expresston of varying News Editor.· ................ Mike Shields Advertising Manager ........ .Bob Rudy :td Saint Mary's College. It does not op1n1ons on campus, through lerters, is · SMC Executive Editor .... .Ellen Buddr. Controller................. .Kevtn Manion ecessarily reflect the policies of th~ encouraged. · SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brasstl Circulation Manag ..?r... ... Greg Hedges 
----------:------­
~-­
,Monday, October -15, 1979 -:_page -7
Features 
Even Upon The Stones 


''God did not make death, nor does he rejoice in the destruction of the living. For He fashioned all things that they might have being" (Wisdom 1, 13-14). 
Try giving that little speech, standing before the parents, roommates and friends ofWally Daniels, Vito LaLoggia, Catherine Guthery or Bruce Plunkett (to whom we just dedicated a statue at Flanner Tower). How the names add up, of students taken from us in untimely death. How to deal with it? 
The world around us is going crazy. The evidence for death and destruction is overwhelming. And often the first one accused is God. 
The Old Testament Wisdom literature dealt with this swirling argument between man and God. In the earlier texts, it was more an individual battle, as with God and Job. Later, it dealt with Yahweh's relationshif with Israel: Now a whole people struggle with the mysteryI dilemma. Israe wrestles with the fact that they, the "chosen people," have been over-run so regularly by dark forces of irreligion and tyranny. 
Thus, it's hardly surprising that, until Jesus came, there was not all that much progress in eliminating the tendency of blaming God for !he misery people suffered. God kept saying neat things, but the peoples' experiences offered contrary evidence. It seemed that, at best, there was a standoff. 
That's why Jesus' coming was so important. Now, no longer just words of Wisdom; now, the word made flesh. A new wisdom appeared; and Jesus' yery presence and actions cut the argument short and d1d much to end the general recriminations. 
The people watched and experienced what Jesus actually did. He heals this person, then that one. In many ways, He entered into the1r death-filled lives. In response to human needs, He'simply does the most human thing. And that becomes characteristicof Jesus. Time and asain He responds to human needs in a given situation, even if thar means runmng contrary to what others might discern as Law or Principle or Morality. Jesus was not, in that sense, a moralist. He simply offered help when people hurt... spontaneously, with compassion, without calculation. 
Somehow it seems that it is absolutely necessary that we have some experience of that loving, caring presence. Otherwise, how can we find it "believable"that God does care? The whole thing gets tricky here, because He immediately calls for risk and gamble. How does he put it? "Fear is useless; what is needed is trust...do not be afraid; only have faith." 
That means that, in having faith, we open a:nd surrender to the one who then provides through His own presence within us the source of strength and courage we need in the midst of the horrors of life. . 
esus, for example, has a concern to be with us as we face the future, with all 
The Real Wc~rld Bill McGurn Is Out -To G·et You 
Though this may come as a shock to most students, especially seniors, I have it on good word that there exists a world apart from the protective outstretched arms ofOur Lady. . For those ot us who wtH not be seeking refuge in some sort of graduate program, we pre-Work majors (as we like to be called) find parental descriptions of this world particularly disconcerting. In the vernacular, it is known as The Real World, a cruel,­heartless, and unjust world some­where "out there." 
To hear tell, what we live in here is 
Fantasy Island. But by the time one 
becomes a senior one's parents 
usually start dropping hints about 
post-graduate life. Little notes like 
''Your father says bankin~ is such a 
sage field" start croppmg up . in 
Mom's letters in betweenGrandmot­
her's operation and Annie's hrst day 
in school. Your father starts sending 
you, instead of letters, the latest 
unemployment figures for non -skilled 
(he means liberal arts majors) labor. 
On breaks you might notice that 
everyone 1speaks about you in the 
past tense. Your siblings stan: divid­
mg up your possessionss, and there 
are constant fights about who is 
going to get your room. Or they do 
little things like forget to set a place 
at the dinner table for you. It's like 
reading your own obituary. 
The worst fears are confirmed around this time in a two-page synopsis of one's life, the resume. For those of us who previously thought that our lives would make ~ood novels, this bare-bones sheet of tsolated facts looks rather meager. The goal in a resume is to make the facts go as far as they can, still remaining facts and not openmg one up to charges of frauci · 
There is very little room for poetic · license in the beginning; not much you can do about your name, date of 
birth, Nationality, major and grade 
point average. Those 1you'n: precy 
much stuck with. Maybe you can fool 
around!With religion, but it's .better to leave the big ~uns until later. 
From what I ve heard, I think the best piece of advice is to remember Goebbel's J?hilosophy_ of the big lie, that the btgger. the lie, the more willing people are to believe it. I mean when you get down to extracur-• rcular activities, 1f you are going to lie and say_ that you belonged to the Chess Club, you might as well be the President of the Chess Clulr.--No one is really goiag to check. 
But don't get greedy. Obviously, a few eyebrows/are going totbe.raised ~~hey)§~e_ ypu1)tre t~e _President of almost every orgamzatton on cam­pus. Keep yourself humble, and .select humble diverse offices for your resume. For example you may want to be treasurer of the Pre-Law Society and Scretary for the Knights of Columbus. And why not even invent one or two: how about Academic Commissioner for the Rugby team. The point is it only has to sound good. 
Give yourself an award or two, perferably in recognition of your civic leadership in your hometown. Let yourself be a htgh school All-Ameri­can tackle or guard. They're not going to take the trouble to write to Kokomo Catholic to find our. When you get to hobbies, remember that your favorite 1author is Dostoyevsky and that you play the pia,no; you're trying to give 'the impression of a well-rounded individual. 

Finally, when they ask you how you paid for college and what you are lookling for in a job, there are a few things to avoid. Do not mention that your father is a heart surgeon and you never worked a day in your life. Use your imagination; if you live in Ohio say you toiled long and hard each summer and during breaks in the coal mines. Insert steel mills if you're from Pittsburg. And make . sure you say you want to work for a progessive company, because that will make you sound industrious and ~nterprising. You might mention some lofty goal, like bringing about world peace, because that always sounds good, too. 
Fr. Bill Toohey 

its mysterious and alarmilng prospects --and that is a kind ofdeath for a lot of us! 
He would like to save us from the terrors of the day...or the night. We are often afraid of the unexpected in a single day's burden: of the report from the doctor, or whatever the mail or phone might bring; of the outcome of an exam or comps. Sometimes we are even more hesitant, if not afraid, of the more distant future: of a marriage; a new job or school; a move to a strange city. The answer Jesus gives us is not just in words (''fear is useless; trust; be not afrai~; have ~aith"), even though these can help. Most importantly, He provtdes us Htmselt--the same one who took]airus' daughter by the hand and restored her to life. 
It ~s. His risen life we share in _our fait~ful opening -life beyond disease, debthty, ashes or grave. The acc1dent or tllness or terror that destroys is less po~erful than the love within. Je~us would h!'lve us know that God desires our livmg ~ven more than we do. He ts a God ofhfe. For Him, and for Him alone, death ts but a sleep, and His power awakens. 
Our yearning to live is but a feeble breath compared to the yearning of God to draw us to Himself-that is, to life. This is the utterly lovely meaning of a poem by D. H. Lawrence. Speaking to every man or woman who has ever lived, he said: · 
Thou shalt fight as a flower fighteth 
upwards through the stones... 
to flower in the sun at last. 
For the yearning ofthe Lord 
streameth as a sun 
even upon the stones. 

The stones in our lives, all that diminishes life and threatens it, are often sins and anxieties, whatever weighs heavily upon us; and, finally, the sense of mortality itself. Then the stone becomes a gravestone fitted in place. With Jesus, it sealed 1-lis tomb. 
But "the yearning of the Lord streameth as a sun even upon the stones." We are delivered -from sin, anxiety, fear, the tomb. Of us the Book of Wisdom speaks: "God formed them to be imperishable; in the image of His own nature He made them." 
We are the living, and our God is alive! Then He says it one more time: "Rise up!" And we discover that now we are the ones He is taking by the ,hand! 
In The Library 
· Brian Konzen 
Ever¥ we~knight, th~ Notre Dame/~aint Mar, ·s community gathers in the Memonal Ltbrary, thetr arms laden wtth books. However, not many people really study there. At least seven types of students inhabit the library: Sleepy: Exhausted from classes all day and studying all night, this student seeks the quiet of the library for the rest he so badly needs. With a cushioned chair, a soft tabletop, and an organic chemistry textbook for a pillow, he is ready for the evening. His only problems are the lights, which the University stubbornly refuses to dim, and the closing bell wh1ch rudely awakens him. However, Notre Dame_ students are hardy, so they usually overcome these annoyances. Sleepy students are also found in the audio center with their feet on a chair and their headsets switched to a channel that plays no music. These students are harmless but may snore. Dopey: This nervous individual attempts to study while under the combined influence of two or more drugs, such as caffiene, pills and coffee, or amphetamines and amyl nitrate. Trying to study non-stop three successive days in a row, the Dopey student resorts to drugs to stay awake. Unfortunately, they may reread the same para~raph four times (before realizing it is in the wrong book), or they often jom the Sleepy students. Happy: This student is smiling, noisy, friendly, and joyful. And why not? He did not bring any books to study. He came to socialize. Usuallylfound:m the second floor lounge, the Happy students gather to talk and m,ingle after a hard day of classwork. However, much to the irritation of the Sleepy students, they sometimes wander out of their natural habitat and into the study areas of the second floor. ­Bashful: Little is known of these timid creatures, because they rarely venture out of the secluded regions of the upper floors. Observers believe they study 
there. · 
· Grumpy: Related to the Bashfulstudent, the Grumpy tries to study. Because they are territorial creatures (only Grumpy students have study carrols with their names engraved on them) they constantly fight with wandering Happy students. Hence their name, Grumpy, and their mckname, cutthroat. Often seen on nights before exams, the Grumpy student is dangerous and to be avoideq. Most Grumpies stare at intruders before attacking; such warnings should be heeded. Doc: Named after the degree they seek, these graduate students are closely related to Bashfuls. These nocturnal cratures live in holes in the lil?rary walls in the tower. Therefore; observation of their habits is difficult. Older Docs, also called Professors, migrate to live in suoterrannean, somewhat larger caves in the basement. Sleasy: Like the happy student, the Sleazy one rarely studies and remains on the lower floors. However, this species tends to be female, and appears to be searching for a mate because it mingles almost exclusively wth the opposite sex. Easily confused with-some Happy students, the Sleazy ones are actually rather rare. Harshly criticized by other females, the Sleazy female in easily {and for males, pleasurably) spotted by her sun dresses in December and the overpo_wer!ng scent of her perfume.Furthermore, Sleazy males never wear loose-fittmg Jeans. 
T} ping these articles is hard work; I'm going to the library now to get some rest. · 
So if you are a senior who has little AmeriLan ingenuity and imagi­wasted all his time out here studying nation and the world 1s yours. All you English, or if you're just basically need now i~ an IIHnview. And a useless, there is still hope. Just use a pravn. 




_j 

The Observer Monday'· October 15, 19~9 -page 8, 
Budget keeps Congress divided 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Two weeks into the new fiscal year, the House and Senate remain far apart on a 1980 budget, a document needed to set govern­ment priorities and establish firm spending ceilings. 
House and Senate negotiators met last week, but managed to resolve only relatively minor differences. 
Still separating the two cham­bers are the key issues of defense spending, proposed cuts in social l?rograms and the federal defictt, which some members of Congress say must be held below $30 billion. 
During the first week of nego­tiations between House and Senate conferees, senators con­tinued to insist on their demand for a 3 percent increase! a~ove inflation for defense spendmg. The House has approved about a 1 percent increase. _ · 
Some senators say the highc:r 
defense spen_ding ts ne_eded tf 
the U.S. Sovtet strategtc arms 
limitation treaty is to stand any 
chance of Senate ratification. 
They also note that 3 percent 
growth was part of a U.S. 
commitment to strengthen the 
NATO alliance. 
Deeply concerned about the fate of SALT II, President Carter has backed the 3 percent defense hike although adminis­tration lobbyists opposed House efforts last month to boost defense spending, a move that prompted angry attackes from pro-Pentagon senators. 
During last week's conference 
ommittee, Sen. Ernest F. Hol­lings, D-S.C., a leading sup­porter of a bigger defense budget, blamed the mixed sig­nals from the White House for the narrow defeat of a House proposal for more military 
SJ?enging . . 
'There· s no doubt m my mmd that the House favors 3 percentl the Senate favors 3 percent and the president -of the United 
States favors 3 . percent,' Hol­
lings declared. However, Rep. Jflmes 

THE GREAT ESCAPE. 
You dream about it at night ... the day you can close your books, get out of this place and forget about studying for awhile. 
Well, the Great Escape is here ... this weekend, with Greyhound. Escape to the country or go see some friends. Just decide which escape route you want and we'll do the rest. 
We'll get you out of town and away from the books so you can clear your head. It doesn't cost much and it'll do you a world of good. 
So make the Great Escape this weekend ... with Greyhound. 
To One-Way . Rounrl-li'lp Depa1 Arrive Chica~o '9.85 18.75 4:50 p.m. 6:5~ p.~.Detrott 20.95 39.8~ 10:20 a.m. 5:35p.m.Cleveland 26.90 51.15 11:50 a.m. 7:35p.m.Pittsburgh 40.05 76.10 8:20 a.m. 8:35p.m.Milwaukee 16.50 31.35. 9:45a.m. 2:1~ p.m. 
287-6541 

•z ----~­
GO GREYIIOIIIJ 
R. 

Jones, D-Okla., a House Con­feree, defended the House defense spending leve! as ade­quate to meet the lNATOicom­mitment because it would in­crease· funds for military hard­ware and readiness by 3.2 percent above inflation. 
Jones said the House total would only provide less than 3 percent for areas such as mili­tary pay, which he said did not relate directly to NATO's pre­paredness. 
Another bone of contention has been the Senate's call for about $3.2 billion in cuts in social programs through a pro­cess known as"reconcilliation." 
Reconciliation would force certain congressional commit­tees to achteve savings in a wide variety of existing pro­grams agreed to in the target budget of last May but so far not enacted. 
Sen. Edmund S. Muskie, D­Maine, the Senate Budget Committee chairman, has made reconciliation the centerpiece of his budget proposals. But his House counterpart, Robert N. Giamo, D-Conn., insists that House committees have gone far enough in achieving sav­The North Dome ofthe ACC provides an ominous backdrop mgs. for indoor tennis players [photo by Dave Rumbach] 
the challenges of the 1980's",

[continued from page 1] 
the theme of Jordan's speech,
-r 

''the majority of them are should be one in which ''black attending two-year community people finally and ultimately colleges while the majority of enjoy full equality,'' he said. white youngsters are in four­This agenda, one that will year colleges and universities._'' transcend race and one that is 
Blacks have made progress m for all l'eople, should include, housing, 1ordan said. ''a nattonal full employment 
"More black families are liv­policy, a massive drive for ing in decent housing and some affirmative action in all asl?ects are living in suburbs that never of American life, a national saw a black face after the youth development folicy that maid's quitting time." ] ordan gives hope and skil to young also pointed out, however, that people denied hope, a national the department of Housing and health policy that ensures high Urban Development says that quality health care for every­blacks are more likely than body, and a housing prosram whites to live in deficient that ensures a decent ltving housing, and they are likely to environment for everybody.'' pay more than they can afford ] ordan said that certain myths for decent housing than whites\ and illusions ofour society must 
All of this shows that ''race be destroyed if the United continues to be a determining States is to accomplish the factor in our society,'' ] ordan agenda for the 1980s. "The said, ''The gap between white myth of black progress," he people and black people is said, "is used as an excuse to ~rowing wider instead of clos­halt further efforts to extend mg smaller." the real progress to all our 
The agenda for ''mobilizing people." 
Mandatory! 
PRODUCTION STAFF MEETING 
All Night Editors and Assistant Night Editors 

Blacks 
The muth of welfare being 
"synonymous with black" is 
yet another illusion, he .said 
''There are more white welfare 
recipients in this country than 
there are black welfare recipi­
ents," ] or dan indicated. 
Another myth that Jordan 
dismissed is that "revitafization 
or our cttles is a black pro­
gram.'' But Jordan added that 
revitalization of our cities is as 
much a problem for others as it 
is for blacks. 
Still another myth is that the full employment issue is an issue for black P.eople. As an example of this tllusion, Jordan said, "I(Chrysler goes down the drain, as some of our more conservative friends would like for it to do, there will be more 
white people out of work than black people out of work." 
.Jordan concluded by saying that it is his hope that the Urban League will not exist 54 years from now and that it will no longer be needed to fight for equal opportunity because ''we wtii have achieved life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness for all of God's ·children." 

Vernon Jordan was invited to be the guest speaker at the 54th annual dinner meeting for the Urban League of South Bend and St . .Joseph County. He has directed the Urban Lea~ue since January 1, 1972, workmg to achieve advances for the minority community. 
In addition to holding previous positions, directorships, federal appointments and honorary de­grees (one from the University of Notre Dame), Jordan is the author of a newspaper column, "To Be Equal", that appears in over 600 newpapers throughout the country. 
ROCCOS men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 

531 N. Michigan 
2~3-4957 




The Observer Monday, October 15, 1979 -page 9 
by Sal Granata ranged from exhausted water. I woes. Settling foundations are not out of proponion to th< 
pumps to broken ceiling tiles. have caused leaks in window number of tenants. areas that have\,not been cor-Although neither rector w1;mld rected. make a direct statement oii 'ti'H 
Elevators, suspended ceilings, cost of vandalism, Br. Burkt 
exit signs and wall clocks have quoted a campus poll last year all been the targets of vandal-as showing no significant dif ism in the towers. Yet both ferences between the attitudes rectors believe that damage of students living in the towers costs as a result of vandalism and other dorms. 
······~~~~~-~111111!1111111~~111!1·••••••••
·'lcj

rr:-._yT. MARY'S -:.1'1
I ·. · • ;·UTERAR.Y M .n: A ·GAZJNE •
CI-llMES 

-----• -------­
now acceptin0 I poems' fiction ' h t F. h d h ft 1 
__ p 0 o_grap V an S 0 0 aVS 
Fall Semester Deadline : 12/1/79 ADDRESS MANUSCRIPTS TO 
1. DR. MAX WESTIER ~ 1 
uc_ 310 MADELEVA _:,v 
___, -----­:Pre • La£ -: 
OAJet,~­
• 

and the Placement Bureau will• . 
th FifthAnn al La Sch ]
SpofiSOf e U W 00 
C ••••••••••••••••••
aravan 
for the first time ever at Notre Dame
who•Adm' . ffi fr
• lSSlOfiS 0 cers Offi over 60 law schools _
ben•w dn 

d Q b }7
• e es ay ' cto er
b 

1 m -: 4 : 30 meree S C 

Campus Maintenance tempor-
Maintenance . arily solved the problem of flooding in the lavatories of Grace Hall last week. How­ever, Br. Charles Burke, Grace Hall rector, said yesterday that
temporarily 
the problem could occur again. Br. Burke attributed his hall's problems to "Drains in the urinals that are too small.
solves 
Every 3 or 4 months they are supposed to be reamed out to remove residue. If you don't take care of them, they flood.'' flooding Periodic flooding is one of several problems inherent to the two highrise dorms, Plan­ner and Grace. At ameeting of the Campus Life Council (CLC)
problem 
last Monday; Br. Burke discus­sed difficulties caused by van­dalism, the complex construc­tion of the towers and over­sights in design. The items 
• • . Pittsburgh 
• • • ''Invisible Man' 
[continued from page 12] up their confidence so they'll be play again." ready when they have to go in.'' Ferguson was happy with his "You practice with these guys, performance, and also happy to sweat with them, and cry with step aside and let somebody them. And when they were in else do the running. there today I was hollering for ''The record will take care of them. Besides these guys are itself," Ferguson said. "This tough. They can play as well as was a time we could get the I can when they are given the 
~ young guys in there and build chance.'' 
Last Sunday at about 8 p.m., the 4th floor drains did clog, causing a flood that spilled out of the washrooms and into the corridors. Maintenance men began repairs immediately and had the situation under control by 10 p.m. · 
Some residue and overflowing 
occured on the 2nd and 3rd floors as a result of workers routing sediments out of the 
drain pipes. The 11 year-old towers are 
heavily equipped with intricate heating and ventilation systems not common to other Notre 
Dame residence halls. Break­downs in these systems are
inevitable, Burke told the Ob­server. 
Oversights in building dec signs, such as neglectmg to install drains in the washrooms, also contribute to maintenance 
away and Mo<eno re.;,hed .e­condon the pitcher's errc~r. 
That was the break the Prrates needed. Foli rifled the next pitch up the gap in right-center 
field, scoring Moreno to make it 
3-1, left-bander Tippy Martinez 
relieved for Baltimore and Par­
ker upset that strategy with a double for another Pirates run. Pittsburgh added to its cush­
ion in the eighth inning after Stargell and Madlock opened with siosles. It was Madlock's
fourth hu of the ~arne' makio: him the third player in this Series to tie that single-game
record and the 39th in the 76-year history of the Series to do it. 
After Steve Nicosia fouled out, Garner drilled an RBI single to let. It was Garner's second hit of the game and ninth of thr Series, and kept his batting average at .500 for five games 
Blyleveo bunted the runners up and Moreno got an inten­tional walk, loading the bases. That brought up Foli and, witht he crowd chanting his name, he bounced a single up the middle to drive in two more runs and turn the game into a rout. 
... Irish 
[continued from page 12] 
solation match.'' 
The fourth/lace Broncos wish the Irish ha forgotten about it, as the Irish wasted little time in doing away with them, 5-2. Freshman Mark McMahon woo two of his three matches, both in straight sets. Notre Dame's number-one singles player's only loss came against Illinois State when he suffered a 4-6, 6-3, 6-2 defeat at the hands of Darrell Smith. The second and third sets were. the frrst ones McMahon had lost against any opponent since August. His smgles string ws snapped at 13 consecutive sets. 
"I was rather pleased with our showing," said Fallon. "It was a much better showing than we displayed in last year's Invita­tional, and I think it was a good experience for everybody. I'm s_ure we could have ~layed a little better but I'm sull happy about it." 
This tournament marked the only fall action for the Irish men who will not compete again until March. 
• tepan enter 
-~ 

micf1ael &co. 

liair concepti 

Tomorrow's Hair Designs . for Contemporary __ Men &·Women 
North 
. Today
11 
,l-cl 
~ .' k· ~ ~:-::::::::::1 ! 

[continued from page 12] 
Now Weaver went to his bench, which has been so successful throughout the Ser­ies. Pat Kelly was sent up to bat for Flanagan and Blyleven responded. by striking him out on a 2-2 pitch. 
Quickly, the Bucs went about the work of adding to their lead in the seventh. Garner opened with a bouncer to shortstop that took a huge hop off the artificial surface infield and went for a single. 
Blyleven tried to sacrifice, but forced Garner at second. Then shortstop Kiko Garcia made a brilliant stop on Moreno's shot up the middle and turned it into another force play. 
Now Moreno began a cat-and­
mouse game with relief pitcher 
Tim Stoddard, who ws obvious­
ly concerned about the fleet 
Pirate's speed. Stoddard threw 
over to first base three times 
while working to Foli. The 
fourth throw, however, got 
Southland Plaza
Yz mile east of Notre D•• 
2041 E. Ireland at Ironwood
Edison at Ind. 2-3 
(219) 291-1001
(219) 272-7222 

USINESS MAJORS! 
The Observer 

wants an ambitious student seeking practical experience in management and with an-interest in graphic design. 
Modest salary included. 
Contact Steve Odland at 8661 or 1432. 

The Observer-SportsBoard_ Monday, October 15, 1979 -pagelO 
Molarity 
by Michael Molinelli 
Houston 17, Texas A&M 14 McNeese St. 34, Lamar 25 
N. Texas St. 21, New Mexico St. 7 Texas 16, Oklahoma 7 Texas Christian 17, Rick 7 
W. Texas St. 33, Indiana St. 7 FAR WEST 
Arizona 24, Oregon 13 Arizona St. 12. Washington T Brigham Youiig43, Utah St. 24 California 45, Oregon St. 0 Hawaii 52, Santa Clara 3 Nev.·Las Vegas 28, New Mexico 20 Notre Dame 38, Air force 13 San Diego St. 31, Miami, Fla. 20 San Jose St. 35, Fresno St. 22 Southern Cal 21, Stanford 21, tie Utah 24, Wyoming 14 Washington St. 17, UCLA 14 
National Football League American Conference East 
w L T PCT. PF PA Miami 5 2 0 .714 133 98 New England 5 2 0 .714 181 105 Buffalo 3 4 0 .429 161 12E 

N.Y. Jets 2 4 0 .333 128 174 Baltimore 1 6 0 .143 88 140 Central Houston 5 2 0 .714 162 148 Pittsburgh 5 2 0 .714 170 140 Cleveland 4 3 0 .571 145 158 Cincinnati 1 6 0 .143 119 169 West Denver 5 2 0 .714 110 101 San Diego 5 2 0 .714 162 98 -Kansas City 4 3 0 .571 123 91 Oakland 4 3 0 .571 141 134 Seattle 2 5 0 .286 138 167 
National Conference 
East Philadelphia 6 "1 0 .857 145 109 Dallas 6 1 0 .857 178 119 Washington 5 2 0 .714 144 104 N.Y. Giants 2 5 0 .286 107 148 St. Louis 2 5 0 .286 120 139 Central Tampa Bay 5 2 0 .714 147 130 Minnesota 3 3 0 .500 107 142 Chicago 3 4 0 .429 95 109 Green Bay 3 4 0 .429 120 128 Detroit 1 6 0 .143 117 173 West Los Angeles 4 3 0 .571 125 125 Atlanta 3 4 0 .429 145 161 New Orleans 3 4 0 .429 180 178 San Francisco 0 7 0 .000 129 204 
Sunday's Games Miami 17, Buffalo 7 New Orleans 42, Tampa Bay 14 Cincinnati 34, Pittsburgh 10 New York Giants 32, San Francisco 16 Washington 13, Cleveland 9 Philadelphia 24, St. Louis 20 Ho-Jston 23, Baltimore 16 New England 27, ChicagO 7 Denver 24, Kansas City 10 Oakland 50. Atlanta 19 Green Bay 24, Detroit 16 San Diego 20. Seattle 10 Dallas 30, Los Angeles 6 
Monday's Game Minnesota at New York Jets. (n) 
Notre Dame 38, Air Force 13 
Notre Dan\~ 10 21 0 7··38 Air Force 0 7 6 0··13 
NO--Ferguson 5 yard run (Male kick). 7-D ' ND··FG Male 43 yards, 10·0 ND··Lisch 1 yard run (Male kick), 17·0 

AF James 1 yard run (Sturch kick) ND··Vehr 2 yard pass from Lisch (Male 
kick). 24·7 ND··Ferguson 23 yard run (Male kick). 31-7 AF··Schafer 2 yard pass from Ziebart (run 

failed), 31-13 
NO--Hunter 75 yard pass from Lisch (Male kick). 38·13 A-34. 881 
NO AF First downs 21 18 Rushes-yards 53-216 36·86 Passing yards 259 132 Return yards 52 12 Passes 13-21·1 15-29-3 Punts 5-35 5-47 Fumbles-lost 1-0 1-1 Penalites-yards 1D-87 1·5 
Individual leaders 

RUSHING--Notre Dame: Ferguson 15·84, Stone 11·54. Barber 7·44. Air Force: Fortson 11·53, James 6·24, Goheen 3-22. 
PASSING--Notre Dame: Lisch 1D-14·1, 227 yards; Courey 1·4·0, 11; Koegel 2·3-0, 21. Air Force: Ziebart 15·26·2, 132 yards; Antoine D-1-D, 0; Shafer D-1-D. 0; Kasperski D-1·0, 0. 
RECEIVING--Notre Dame: Holohan 4·98. Hunter 3-103, Vehr 3·37. Air Force: Fortson 8·55, Shafer 2·31, Smith 2·1 0. 
Cross-Country 

Duel Meet: Notre Dame 17 -Loyola of Chicago 46 6 miles 
1) Hatherly, NO · 30:52 2) Filosa. NO 
3) Bicicchi. NO 4) Wilson. Loyola 
5) Novak, Cato, NO 7) Bartolini, NO 
B) Moyar. NO 
Soccer 
PANTHER INVITATIONAL TOURNAMENT 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 

Notre Dame 2, Ohio University 0 Wisconsin-Milwaukee 5, Notre Dame 1 Notre Dame takes second In tournament. 
· Football 
EAST Ashland 13, Slippery Rock 3 Brown 24. Penn 13 Colgate 17, Holy Cross t 6 Cornell 41. Harvard 14 Penn St. 24, Army 3 Pittsburgh 35, Cincinnati 0 Princeton 35, Columbia 0 Rutgers 26, Connecllcut14 Temple 49, Syracuse 17 W. VIrginia 20, Boston College 18 Yale 3, Dartmouth 0 
SOUTH Alabama 40. Florida 0 Arkansas St. 14, Louisiana Tech 7 Auburn 42. Vanderbilt 35 Clemson 21, VIrginal Tech 0 Duke 34, Richmond 7 E. Carolina 49, Citadel 7 Florida St. 17, Mississippi St. 6 Furman 34, Marshall 24 Georgia 21, Louisiana St. 14 Kentucky 14, Mississippi 3 Louisville 24, Tulsa 7 Navy 24, William & Mary 7 N. Carolina St. 7, Maryland 0 NE Louisiana 21, Memphis St. 2U Pacific U. 10, SW Louisiana 7 Tennessee 31, Georgia Tech 0 Tulane 20, S. Mississippi 19 Virginia 69, James Madison 9 VMI 27, Appalachian St. 22 Wake Forest 24, n. Carolina 19 

• MIDWEST Akron 24, Ya. Michigan 12 Ball St. 42, Illinois St. 14 Bowling Green 28, Kent St., 17 Cent. Michigan 31. N. Illinois 11 Iowa 68, Northwestern 6 Iowa St. 7, Kansas St. 3 
Kentucky St. 30, Lincoln 0 Long Beach St. 17, Drake 14 Michigan 31. MlnAesota 21 Nebraska 42, Kansas 0 Ohio U. 9, Miami, Ohio 7 Ohio St. 47, Indiana 6 Oklahoma St. 14, Mlssourl13 Purdue 28, Illinois 14 
S. Illinois 31, Wichita St. 7 Toledo 17, W. MlchiQ<ln 0 Wisconsin 38, M1chi!Jan St. 29 
SOUTHWEST Arkansas 20, Texas Tech 6 Baylor 24, Southern Math. 21 Colorado St. 17. Texas · El Paso 3 


The Daily Crossword 

© 1979 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

aod Special Guest 
Faith Band. 
FRIDAY OCTOBER 19th 8 pm Notre Dame ACC Tickets S8.50 and S7.50 On sale now at ACC Box Office and Student Union Ticket Office 
ACROSS 26 Dance step 52 Boredom 27 Hurt 1 Ordered 29 Leaving 55 Adage 28 Stone 5 Malaga a will 57 Old Greek pillar
friend 32 Scrooge colony 30 -of Babel 10 Insect word 61 Pour 31 ..-du sense organ 35 Thespians 64 Shiny paint Iieber!" 14 Included 37 Mo. 65 French 32 "-This with 38 Baseball river House" 15 Played a family name 66 Dill 33 Blood canal 
tape again 39 Terrific, 67 Olive genus 34 Brazen girl16 Forest ox in flapper 68 Garden item 36 Edible 17 John Hey-lingo 69 -trap tuber 
wood proverb 42 Anatomical 
38 Alias 

20 Theater tissue 
DOWN initials fare 43 Anger 1 Hairless 40 Theater 21 Compass 44 Entrees 2 Cupid signheading 45 A Lupino 3 Opera VIP 41 Seamy22 Battle area 46 Great thing 4 Fluid 46 Mideast of WWII 48 Speak problem sailing23 Money in 49 Bender 5 Exist 
vessel 

the pot 50 Betting 6 Street 47 In the di­25 Beverage figures rumbles 
rection of 7 Press 49 Committee

Friday's Puzzle Solved 8 Bestowed 51 Drinks 9 -and only 52 Thus 10 Name on a 53 Spad or check · brad 
11 A Hardy 54 Long river 12 Swag 55 Desist 13 Singer 56 Continent 
18 Hindu 58 "-but the secret word Lonely 19 French Heart" girl: abbr. 59 "-a Kick 24 Mike out of You" adjustment 60 Movie 
word terrier 25 Clad 62 Jolson and 26 First r\ame Smith 


10113/79 of 13 D 63 Born 
Acareer in law­
without law school. 
After just three months of study at The Institute for Paralegal Training in exciting Philadelphia, you can have a stimulating and rewarding career in law or business­without law school. 
As a lawyer's assistant you will be performing many of the duties traditionally handled only by attorneys. And at The Institute for Paralegal Training, you can pick one of seven different areas of law to study. Upon completion of your training, TM Institute's unique Placement Service will find~ JU a responsible and challenging job in a law firm, bank or corporation in the city of your choice. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training is the nation's first and most respected school for paralegal training. Since 1970, we've placed over 2,500 graduates in over 85 cities nationwide. 
If you're a senior of high academic standing and looking for an above average career, contact your Placement Office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on: 
Wed. Oct. 17,1979 
The !11.~. Institute fJJ;t.~:_,'')\ 235 South 17th Street 
for t 1 1 Philadelphia, PA 19103 Paralegal 1~:~ , ..11 (215) 732-6600
T . . ® •• I .. Ill •j
ram•ng -~ AC-0035 
operated by Para-legal, Inc. 
Approved by the American Bar Association. 

Classifieds 
Notices 
. 
Used Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7, Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Rd. Niles. 683-2888. . 
Morrissey Loan Fund Last day to apply for loans before Fall break is October 18. $2D-$200. Due in one month. 1percent jnterest charge. 
Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 2n-0296. 
Will do typing. Neat, accurate. Call: 287-5162. 
Lost & FOUfld 
LOST: White Samoyd puppy on Friday aftefnoon from outside Huddla. answers to name "Hero". $25 reward for recovery. Mlco 256-5879. 
Whoever stole my brown backpack from SMC Science Bldg, give it back. I don't care who you are. Please return all those things that are useless to you. Call Usa Harless 234-7389. 
LOST: One navy blue sweater with keys and IDin the pocket at Guiseppe's Friday night. REWARD OFFERED. Call 4629. 
'lost; Tan and brown glasses case with contact case and contacts within. 4-4813. 
LOST: One beige v-neck sweather with lapels. If found please call Jim at 2n-3997 before 8:30 a~. 
FOUND: one beige sweather WITHOUT lapels. How about a trade? Call Jim at 2n-3997 before 8:30a.m. 
FOUND: Man's watch between Grace and the Library. Found Thursday night. Call m1 to Identify. 
: Silver cross pin JTRC 1-8-77] found In Math Ubrary. Call Tl78. 
For Rent 
LIVE FREE OCT. For rent: Campus View Apt for rent w/3 male students. $100/month. All utilities included. Call Brian zn-5072. 
Female roommate wanted to sublet Campus View Apt. Live with 3 other girls. $100/month, all utilities included. Call Kathy 283-1320. 
.Pay No MONEY during October !n.50/ 
month afterwards--Multiple Vacancies. 
NO Apts. Call Jamie 283-1187. 
Wanted 
Need ride to Cntral New Jersey or vicinity for October break. Will share expenses. Hank 8181. 
Need ride to Twin Cities area for break. Will share $$$. Mark 8341. 
Dying Mom wants to see son. Need ride to NJ-NY for break. Call Mike 1-624. 
Desperately need ride to Southern PA. [Harrisburg or nearby cities] for break. Wlll help with expenses Jim 1688. 
Need ride to Tennessee game Nov. 9. Will share expenses. Call Mary Ann 4-1-4347. 
1 need a ride to anywhere near Pough­keepsie, NY or Danbury Conn. for break. Will share driving and expenses. Please call 3501. 
Need ride to Chicago (O'Hare) any time after USC game on Oct 20. Will pay all tolls. Rod 8333. 
HELP. Need one or two rides to St. Bonaventure for October break. Call Jea~ at 8075. 
Need ride to Dayton area on October 18th or 19th. Call Kate 4-1-5220. 
SEX-CRAZED LOVE GODESS cannot keep me in South Bend for October break! Please give me a ride to Atlanta. This includes those lucky people who .drive to Forlda. I'll share driving and 
expenses. Please call Scoop at 1771. 
Need ride to and from Mpls/St. Paul 
area. Leave Oct. 19 or 20.  Please call  
Peggy at 282-2241 soon.  
Desperate need ride to  Buffalo or  

Rochester, NY for October break. Call Paul at 1038. 
Going to or near Pittsburgh over break? I'll share expenses. Prefer to leave before USC game. Call Matt 234-5284. 
2SMC girls need ride to Wash. DC area, for Oct. break-will share expenses. Call Betsy 5129 or Mary 4954. 
Omaha--need ride there after USC game. Call Colin 8736. 
I want to go home for ND-Tennessee! Need as many tickets as possible! Please help! Mary Lynn 4747 (SMC) 
Need ride to Philadelphia area for October break. Mary Beth 5732 (SMC). 
Need aride to College Park, MD area for Oct. break. Willing to share expenses. Please help. Call Cathy (SMC) 4349. 
MINNESOTA need ride to Twin City area. Can leave Fri. Sat, or Sun. Call Tim 4339. Will share driving and gas. 
Need ride to Memphis, TN for October break.. Willing to share expenses. Veronica 1311. 
Need ride to Buffalo for break. Please call Lisa 8144. 
Need ride to Rochester NY for October break! Please call Jan 8144. 
I'm driving all the way to Charlotte, NC. If any one needs a ride call me. Kevin 8661. 
Need riders to Orlando, Fla. area for break. John 3119. 
Need ride to Denver, CO for October break. Will share driving and expenses. Call Bob at 1682. 
Riders needed to Pittsburgh/Greensburg PA for Oct. break. Leave Sunday . Call 1081. 
Fellow Oklahomans--! need aride to OKC after the USC game and to be back before 
S. Car. game. Will share expenses or go in on a rental car. Phil 8303. 
Must get home for party on Sunday, Oct. 
21. Need ride to Boston area before or after USC game. Call Steve 1723. 
Please!! 2 need ride to Boston area for break. Share usual. Kathy 1296, Jini, 1331. 
Need ride back Baltimore or DC, October 
27. Will share gas. Kathy 4-1-5240. 
HELP.. Need ride out West (Denver) for break. Share the usual. Call Dianne, 288-3882. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh preferably after USC game. Will share driving and expenses. Call 8680. 
Ride needed to Cincinnati area for break. Will share expenses. Call Mark 3164. 
Cocaine courier needs driver for run to NO from Wash. DC after break. Contact Robert 1729. 
WANTED: riders to Philadelphia. $55 round trip. ~Jack 1792. 
Need ride to Minnesota. Will share expense. Lynn 6803. 
HELP! Desperately need ride to St. Louis on Friday, Oct. 19, afternoon. Will share driving and expenses. Please call John, 8653. 
Anyone goino thry N E Ohio on way back to NO 10/28?? Will meet you and willing to share expenses. Call Bob at 3230. 
I'm homesick for the Land of 10,000 Lakes. Need ride to MINNESOTA for Oct. break. Will share expenses and driving. Call "Ray" at 8135. 
OVERSEAS JOBS--Summer/year round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc, 
All fields, $500-1,200 monthly. Expen­ses paid. Sightseeing. Free info--Write: IJC, Box 52-14, Corona Del Mar, CA. 92625. 
Part-time wiatresses needed. Gropp's Fish or Stroh. 52129 US 31 N. Phone: 277-0103. 
Proficient keypunch needed for 20 hours of work between Oct 12 and October 29. $3.50/hr. Call 272-8857. 
WANTED: Used speakers, will pay reasonable price, call 233-5524. 
WANTED 28 USC tix. I'm paying the price you'll like. Call Quality Inn (SB) and ask for Bill Dandridge. 
Will pay cash for photographs of opening school mass, Oct. 8, 1979. Call6385 M-F 8:3D-4:30'. Needed for publication. 
Buspersons and dishpersons needed Male or Female. Apply at The Carriage House 24460 Adams Road. 272-9220. 
Need one United half-fare coupon. Can pay $3D-35. Chuck, 8302, by Thursday. 
Florida or 1-75-Ridars wanted. Call 
3659. 
For Sale 
1Genesis Speakers. One year old with a life time guarranty. Excellent condition. Call Dave-1143. 
For Sale: Kansas tickets. Sold at cost because "friends" backed out. Greg 277-1602. 
For Sale: 1 USC Student ticket 1 S. Carolina Student tic. Call Mike 8385. 
Refrigerator for Sale unused, 2.2 cu. ft. $100/best offer. 8670. 
2Clarton car speakers for Sale $25. 8670. For Sale: 1 USC GA best offer. Jim 1412. For Sale: Bar, blue and white 1V2 ft. x 4 
ftx 3V2 ft. $20. 6931. 
By Alumnus--2 bedroons house 1136 E. Sorin (near Corby's) drive by, call Jim Licata, 312-472-0879. Make offer. 
For sale: United airlines Half-fare coupons, $45 each 234-2880. 
Student USC and S. Carolina tix for sale. Best offer 4-1-5165. 
For Sale--usc two GA's, 3 student tix. Charlie 8168. 
Sansui 8080 drs receiver 85 watts rms per channel. Exc cond. $300.00. Call Bobby 233-3380 after 3:00 p.m. 
Used 13 inch auto tires on rims. Cheap. Also snow tires. 8900 or 4349. 
For sale: United 50 percent discount coupon. Dan 272-8489 after 6. 
For Sale: Bic t-2 tWo speed cassette deck $200 or best offer. Call Pete 3331. 
For Sale: 1 USC student tic. Best offer. Call Mike 3467. 
For Sale: 2 USC GA's best offer Terry 1756. 
Tickets 
I need 1, 3or 4 Clemson tlx. Call Dave at 8782 or Bill 8444. 
Need 2-4 South Carolina Tlckets-GA Call 1895. 
Attention--anyone going home before the USC game--I need 1 student ticket. Call John 1209. 
Need several South Carolina tlx. Please call 232-7314, thankS. 
I need one GA ticket for South Carolina. Will pay good bucks. Call 3050. 
Need 2 GA tix to USC game. Call John 1851. 
WANTED: Necessary to get 2 So. Carolina GA's, separate seats OK. Jim 
6802. 

I need two GA tlx for Navy game. Call Michelle. 291-1598. 
Need 2 Navy GA tix and 1 Clemson tic. Call 5105. 
I need [and will pay wall for] one USC student ticket. Call JC at 8547. 
Desperately need 2 GA South Carolina Tix. Call Jake 3180. 
Strack's on a rampage...stop this madness by selling him your USC and/or Tenn tix!! Call John at 234-5284. 
Will pay corporate bucks for 2 S. Carolina, GA lix. Call Todd: 3751. 
Help! Need one USC student ticket! Call Jan 7921. 
Need many GA and reserved tickets for Navy. Bill 8891. 
I need 2GA tickets for S. Carolina. Please call Greg 6726. 
Navy, Need student and/or Ga Navy tix. Call Pau I 263-6313. 
Top dollar.for S. Carolina GA's. Call Tom 1610. 
Grandparents last pilgrimage to the Dome. Need Southern Cal tix badly. Call Kevin 3528. 
Helpl I'm frantic.-need 8 tickets for S. Cal game. Please call Katie at 7911. 
Need GA tickets for Southern Cal game. Will pay big bucks. Call Jane 283-8012. 
Need Southern Cal tickets. Will pay top dollar. Call Joe after 10. 233-6024. 
Help--1 need two USC Ga tlx to USC game. Call Laurie. 4762 (SMC). 
Need GA Navy tickets. 4-1-4375. 
Ill Papa returns for the USC game needing three GA tix., anywhere. Money is obviously no object. Call 288-2484. 
Parents need two GA's for South Carolina Please call Jim 1692. 
For Sale: The remainder of football ticket pack. Call 2n-5072. 
WANTED: GA tickets for any home games. Must be two or more together. Call 287-3311 Danny or Joe. 
WANTED--WANTED 28 USC tix. I'm paying the price you'll like. Call Quality Inn. Ask for Bill Dandridge. 
Must have 2GA tix for USC game. Need badly. Call Rick 8698. 
Need 4 S. Carolina GA tix. Call Mike 1034. 
Desperately need 1,2,3,4 USC tix. Money no object. Brian 1644. 
Must have 1or 2 USC tix. May be either GA or student. Call Tom 1222. 
Need 4or 6 GA's to South Carolina. Call Steve 1055. 
Need two NaVy GA tix. Call Mike, 8382. 
Please, I need 2 USC GA tlx for my parents. HELP!! Call 8323. Jeff. 
Top dollar for USC tix (GA). Please call Tim 288-2465. 
Need student and many GA tickets to USC, Mike 1384. 
I need South Carolina tix. Call 3334, ask for Dave. 
Need 2 student or GA Navy tix. Call Julie-4084 (SMC). 
$75 can be yours if you have 3 GA USC tickets. ($50 for 2) Call 8050. 
Help! Need 2 Ga USC tix. Sheila 7924. 
Either I get USC tickets or I get disemboweled!! You may think I'm nuts, but I won't be if I don'tget some GA's for Oct 20th!! Considering the potential conseQuences, money Is beside the point!f Call Terri 8211. 
Need several GA tickets for Clemson Tennessee games. Call1771. You name the price, I'II pay If right. 
Will sell USC student tix. Taking best offer. Call Mary Ann. 4-1-4347. 
WANTED: 3 or 4 GA tix to any home football game. Will pay good money!!4-1-5195. 
Need 8 tix for S. carolina. Call 289-6543 Mark or Mike. 
Desperately need 5GA tix to Tennessee!! Call John at 3656. 
Goinq home for October break?? Sell your usc tix to 2SMC ladies. We need 2 GA tix and 2 student tix. Willing to pay your price. Call 4349 (SMC) Cathy or Leslie. 
USC. Yes believe it or not, I need 2 GA USC tix. However, I have lots of money for them. Call Dave at 8782. 
Personals 
Monotheistic DOCTRINE of Reincarna­tion in the Torah, the Prophets and the Gospels. Write: The Truth of Islam, 
P.O. Box 4494, South Bend; IN 46624. 
Unite with the Irish Army and STEW S.C.!! 
Today, October 15, is Michele William'! 21st birthday. If you see her, wish her a happy one. 
Bill and Mike, Are there any rocks in China? Thanks, Jennifer 
MONSTER MASH MONSTER MASH MONSTER MASH 
It took 21 years but Susie Williams has finafly reached puberty. Now she doesn't know what to do. Any suggestions? Its her birthday help her out. Call 7953. 
Tricky Dick is coming. He's not a crook, he's a juggler. Catch him in the act at Kansas, on the quad, and at the game. He's got the tapes with him. 
~argi, 
Thanks for making my 18th great. You're the best twin sister around. · Love, Jemiifer 
Lap, Sorry t naven't written but I have been rather busy! Thank~· for the letter and check. (Aren't our roles reversed?) 
· Love, Mom 

All tennis fans· Interested in joining the Maureen Fitzgerald Fan Club, call 4-1­4513. 
Kitty,It was a great movie. Next time you should come with. 
Dave 

,Mandatory Meeting for all observer 
typist. Tues. Oct.16, 6:15 Observer 
office. 

Baub Danahy, Happy 19th from everyone. Hope you feel like partying, because Mr. J. Daniels will be with us. 
P.S. Birdzo and Gooley say do it in style. 
MINORITY RIGHTS FORUM Wed Oct 17, 8 p.m. Washington Hall. 
Coffee House ~t SMC Snack Bar Wad. 8:30-10:30 SPECIALS. 
Baub, You're a sweetie and we hope you have the best birthday ever! We would have a party .for you over here but... 
Love from the convicts in Cellblock 129 

Dear Mary Pat, _ Have a Happy Birthd!y and a beautiful week. You know we love you!! 
Tom, Kevin, and Jean 

This week is Be-nice-to-your-favorite­dining-hall cflecker Week. So smile when you give them your ID. 
Bill, Happy 20th Birthday! Thanks for all the moral support. Viet Gluck! 
With love, lndi 

Tom, . 1trust that the LSAT's went well and Ray got off OK. It was an interesting night!! 
A Lekkervlfe 

D.B.L.O.: Frlcasee our kermit and we'll fricasee your. ...(!) 
115 Farlonites (Heckel, Jecket, Clyde) 

P.S. You'd better have his left eye! 
RCM, See you the 18th.  Guess Who  
Ann and Moe,  
Meet me at ... 1e Stein.  
Thanks,  
Jennifer  
Who Is the Irish Army??  

Kristin, Congrats kiddo!! Now kill then at PA. It .just goes to show that eventually everyone comes to their senses. 
Love, Your "roomie" 

103, Mary, Toga, T.C, Bob, Billy, Jimmy, and Frank, Thanks for the super birthday! Toledo couldn't have done better. 
Love, JJM 

Shieff: But we don't want to wish you a Happy Birthday; we just want to ....sing! Love, Iguana. Rebecca, Ylsl, Mo-Mo, Steller, Bandy, Space. 
Huggums, It Is all so clear to me now. Tree lips 
Michele, Happy 21st sweetie. Have a good pay and a great life. Enjpy dinner. 
Love and Kisses. "The Quasi-Quad 

The Irish Army's on the march. CATCH THE SPIRIT!!! 
Tim G, I sincerely apologize for all the personals last week. I meant them only to be fun ... I guess I was wrong. Sorry. 
Anne 

Need 3Navy tickets. Call 256-8301 days. 291-5742 evenings. PLEASE, 
Congrats Ann Ferris! (But does Ohio State know what it got itself into??) Your micro buddio. 



. 

Monday, October 15, 1979 -page 12
S]2orts 
ND's 'Invisible Man' lets arm do talking 
byMarkPerry well," Hunter commented. Sports Editor "He has one of the strongest throwing arms around, and he 
·was putting the ball there COLORADO SPRINGS -Satur­today." day's Notre Dame-Air Force Hunter caught two other Lisch game was supposed to be a day aerials for a total of 103 yards, for record breakers, but it and also had another long didn't turn out that way. touchdown bomb, this time for 
Notre Dame's Vagas Fe.rguson 80 yards, called back because of only needed 105 yards rushing an offensive pass .interference to become the all-time career call. leader for the Irish. But Irish "It was called on me," admit­coach Dan Devine kept the ted tight end Nick Vehr, who senior halfback out dunng the came in to replace injured second half in an effort to keep started Dean Masztak. "I the score down. wasn't near the ball but the 
Quarterback Dave Ziebart of official ruled that I had made Air Force did break the Falcon contact with a defender and career passing yardage mark pass interference was called." with 132 yards, but his perfor­Vehr also enjoyed the best day mance was overshadowed by of his career, catching three the fact that he threw two passes for 3 7 yards and one interceptions and missed some touchdown, a two-yard diving Lisch [6] had one ofthe best games ofhis Notre Dame career, completing 10 of 14 open receivers with poor tosses. catch on fourth and goal. passes for 227 yards and two touchdowns. [photo by john Calcutt] 
Instead it was Notre Dame "It was a beautiful pass," quarterback Rusty Lisch who Vehr added, as Lisch avoided a ws mainly responsible for the strong rush to get the ball off in Force sixth game 38-13 Irish victory at F alcoa time. "It was a really good day Stadium. for Rusty." 
And as has been the case all It could have been a great 'day 
Pittsburgh defeats Orioles , 7-1
season, Lisch was not around to for Ferguson, who gained 84 talk about it after the game. yards on 15 carries in the first 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Bill Mad­brought him out of the bullpen urn crowd of 50,920 chantingThe Irish signal-caller has half, including two touchdowns, lock ripped four hits and Tim Sunday for his first relief ap­"Let's Go Bucs!" Tanner haddecided to maintain a low but Devine elected to save his Foli drove in three runs as the pearance since 1972. Blyleven cleanup bater Bill Robinsonprofile this season, managing to star for the upcoming contest Pittsburgh Pirates, battling to allowed three hits over the final bunt the runners along. It wasslip quietly out of the locker against USC. 
stay alive, defeated the Balti­four innings to complete a an interesting strategy move room before the members of the "We held Vagas out of the more Orioles 7-1 Sunday in six-hitter. Jim Rooker had because earlier in the Series press can find him. Instead he second half not to prevent the Game Five of the 1979 World· pitched the first five innings Baltimore Manager Earl Wea­has let his performance on the rushing rec.o'"d, but to hold the Series. and left the game trailing 1-0. ver had suggested that buntingfield do his talking. And score down,'' Devine admitted. 
The victory left the Pirates still The Pirates came up with might not be such a good ideaSaturday Notre Dame's "Invisi­''He could have made 400 yards trailing the best-of-seven Series two-run innings in the sixth and because it means your team isble Man" was speaking loud today. I thought the game 3-2 but forced the teams back to seventh to turn the game playing for a single r:un.. Butand clear. would ~et out of hand if he Baltimore· for a sixth game around. The catalysts in both the Pirates got two this ume.
Lisch enjoyed one of the best stayed m there. 
Tuesday night. Game Seven, if rallies were the slap-hitting Foli Willie Stargelllifted one of hisdays of his career, completing ''The last time he touched the needed, would be played Wed­and slugger Dave Parker. patented rainbow fly balls to
10 of 14 passes for 227 yards ball he went 232 yards (for a Then Pittsburgh the
nesday night. sealed center field. AI Bumbry settled 
and two touchdowns, including touchdown) and nobody touch­The Pirates had hoped to start victory with a three-run eighth under it easily but Foli scored a 75-yard bomb to freshman ed him. We didn't even run that Bert Blyleven in Game Six, but built around Madlock's fourth after the catch, tying the gamesplit end Tony Hunter. 
that plan was changed when single of the game and a bases­1-1, Parker moved to third
[continued on page 9]

''Rusty was really throwing 
Manager Chuck Tanner loaded, two-out two-run single on the play and came home a by Foli. moment later when Madlock 
Mike Flanagan, winner of muscled his third ofjvur singles Game One in this Series, had in the game--this~ to center the Pirates shut out over the 
field.

Irish take 3rd in tennis tourney 
first five innings and was With the Pirates in from,· leading 1-0 on a run the Orioles Baltimore tried to play catch-up gan, a team which the Irish had scratched off Rooker in the baseball -an Orioles specialty
by Michael Ortman doubles, the match would have 
beaten during the spring seson, fifth. all season. But the BucsSports Wn.ter been a whole different story.'' 
5-4. "We just weren't going to Foli opened the Pittsburgh
The second round singles were weren't yielding. 
let down again," said Harris. sixth with a walk on a 3-1 pitch. After Blyleven retired the first scheduled for 9 a.m. Saturday, "Just because we couldn't­Parker, who had struck out in two hitters in the seventh,Well, you win some, you lose but Mother Nature just didn't finish first didn't mean we were each of his first two at-bats catcher Rick Dempsey hustled asome, and some get rained-out. want to cooperate. The rain going to forget about the con-Sunday, followed with a single routine hit into a double.
Notre Dame's tennis team and cold temperatures forced to center.
encountered all three during all of the day's competition [continued on page 9]
[continued on page 9] 
With the Three Rivers Stadi­this weekend's Irish Fall Invita­inside. The eight competing tional, finishing third in the teams were SJ?read all over eight-team competition. South Bend With four teams 
A blind draw was held to playing in the ACC and the determine first-round pairing other four at the Lafayette for the two day tournament, South Racket Club. For the and the Irish were matched afternoon's third round, there against a tough Oral Roberts was even further juggling of squad which had finisheq locations. second a year ago, far ahead of Notre Dame was faced with fifth place Notre Dame. having to win five of the six 
Yet the Irish were not intimi­singles in order to advance to dated by the highly-touted Ti­the finals. But as soon as tans and posted a 5112-3 'h Illinois State won the number-victory. The number-two ·one and number-five singles, doubles was declared a tie after the unfinished matches were the two teames had split the suspended and State posted a first two sets. With the match 5-2 win. already decided the tempera­Many tried to blame the foul ture in the 40s and the second weather for the second round's round opponents waiting tc results, but Irish captain Carl­begin, the coaches opted to call ton Harris, who had won his it a draw. singles match and lost his 
The fa~d that the double~ doubles, pointed o_ut, "The matches of round two were alsc wind blows on both sides of the played on Friday, spelled disas­net.'' ter for the Irish as they lost all The Cardinals finished second three to Illinois State. overall, losing to defending "I thought that we had three champion Miami, 6-3. The pretty good dou~!es .c.ombir;ta­Redskins won the annual event 
tions out there, said Insh for the fourth time in five years coach Tom Fallon, "but they by sweeping the doubles com­just seemed to let up after the petitions.. win over Oral Roberts. If we'd Notre Dame's third round been able to win just one of the, opponent was Western Michi-









