

VOL. XIV, No. 61 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1979 

Libya offers 'profuse apologies ' 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Libyan government has offered "profuse apologies" for the attack Sundav on the U.S. embassy in 'rripoli and has increased the guard there, but the response to a U.S. protest was inadequate, State Depart­ment officials said yesterday. 
'·We will be satisfied only when we have satisfactory as­surances for the security both of our embassy and our people in Libya,'' department spokesman David Passage said. 
Fourteen embassy depend­ents left Libya yesterday some flying to Pans and the others to Rome. 
Libya's response came from Ali Turayki, the foreign minis­ter, to William Eagleton, the top U.S. diplomat in Libya. 
But the State Department wants Libya's leader, Col. Noa­mmar Khadafy, to acknowledge the attack as a way of reassur­ing that the Libyan people understand the embassy is not to be a target of violent demon­strations. 
Only one policeman was out­side the embassy when some 2,000 people, carrying pro-Iran­ian banners and spurred on by a sound truck, assembled outside the embassy. 
Some demonstrators clam­bered up the wall to the second floor and others set fire to the building. There were no injur­
The attack in Libya by dem­the reassessment will focus on onstrators proclaiming solidari­the situation in Libya. ty with Iran has prompted the 
The attack in Libya followedUnited States to reassess secur­by six days the U.S. decision toity problems faced by its diplo­withdraw non-essential diplo­matic personnel in Islamic matic personnel and depend-
countries. State Department spokesman ents from American missions in Hodding Carter said Sunday 11 Moslem countries. 
Iranians vote Khorneini leader for life 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -The Iranian people, in a vast show of support for the Moslem elder who has made the holding of American hostages part of a holy crusade, voted overwhel­mingly yesterday to make Aya­tollah Ruhollah Khomeini their political overload for life. 
The Khomeini regime, mean­while, stepped up public read­iness for an eventual U.S. mili­tary attack, expected by many Iranians. It posted more guards at the U.S. Embassy, where 50 Americans entered their 30th day of captivity in the hands of Moslem militants demanding that the United States hand over the deposed Shah of Iran. 
For the first time some of the 
guards were dressed in green 
army fatigues and boots. 
In an unexplained develop­

ment an ambulance was seen 
Student Governm.ent rejects SU proposal 
by Michael Onu{rak Senior Copy Editor 

In a tension-fdled meeting last night the Student Governmvnt Board ofCommissioners rejected a proposal submitted by Studt.·nt Union Director Tom Hamel which would have reinstituted. ir: modified form, the Student Union's comiJlimentary ticket poli, \. The:' Board voted earlier this semester to abolish the traditional ! policy after having upheld it at two earlier meetings. 
Hamel said he decided to give the complimentary ticket pobc) "one more shot" because he felt that an "implicit contract" had been drawn up between the Union and its workers. 
"Thit; isn't any kind of a legal contract, but it is a moral c·nc· because Student Union has traditionally compensated its work r~ with complimentary concert ticb·ts. To cut off this compensati01 ir: mid-semester is a slap in the face to the workers," Hamel sai· 
Besides Hamel, only Bill Vita, student body vice-president, a·1d Shannon Neville, off-campus commissioner, supported the , U proposal. The proposal was defeated by a 6-3 tally. 
Student Body President Bill Roche, who voted against the 5U, said that he hoped a better compensatory policy could be wor'-c·d out with the Union and student government. 
''I ddinitely feel Student Union workers should be compensated because of the amount of time and effort they put into tneir job,.'' Roche said. 
"I just don· t think complimentary tickets is the best way. Right now I'm not sure the SU could afford to take the financial loss giving away all these tickets would incur," Roche said. 
·'What I would like to see is some type of pay-scale worked out for student governmenr workers as is now in effect at some student-run University organizations. The compensation would only be token, but it would be a lot closer to what student government workers deserve, than what they are getting nov .'' Rot:he added. 
In other business, the Board voted to restrict the number of student government officials who will have authority to sign official contracts on behalf of student government. The Board voted unanimously to restrict contract-signing power to the Student Body President, Judicial Co-ordinator, HPC Chairman, Off-Campus Commissioner, and Student Union Director. 
This policy will not affect hall-run events. The Board of Commissioner's next meeting will be Jan. 24 at 6:30p.m. 

launching of an international inquiry into the ex-shah's re­gime, and sending a Council mediation mission to Iran. 
Initial returns. of a two-day referendum that ended yester­day showed Itanians voting 60-to-1 in favor of a new constitution that Khomeini's political critics say will make him a theocratic dictator. 
Though final official results will not be announced until later in the week, Iranian voters obviously did what the Islamic leadership had urged in the non-secret, yes-or-no balloting. 
Reporters saw bearded, rut­banded mullahs Moslem priests -seated in front of ballot ~oxes ~t seve_ral polling sta­tiOns mstructmg people to "vote yes only." 
Then the mullahs, or anyone else, could see whether the voter put the green, for "yes," 



Human stampede kills 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Panicked fans stampeded their way into a rock concert by ''The Who'' last night, and Fire Chief Burt Lugananni said at least 12 people were killed in the crush. 
hole, making it bigger. Three oi four of us tried to hold them back, but it was no use. 
"We couldn't hold them back. They carried in one boy and laid him on a table and he died. 
or red, for "no" slip into the ballot box. 
-The Libyan government of­fered "profuse apologies" for Sunday's mob attack on the 
U.S. Embassy in Tripoli, Ltbya, but a State Department spokes­man said the Carter administra­tion will be satisfied ''only when we have satisfactory as­surances for the security both of our embassy and our people in Libya.'' 


'Who 'fans 
room superv1sor at Cincinnati 
General Hospital, said the 'vic­
tims suffered multiple bruises. 
and "ttherelwas some proof of 
tootprim-'like injuries.'' 
The concert, which was sold 

ies and all14 American employ­movi~g from point to point A number of persons were Others were laying out on the out, went on as scheduled after ees inside escaped unharmed. within the embassy compound. injured and were taken by plaza," said Schwertman. the victims were taken away. A U.S. request last week that A student spokesman contacted ambulance to at least four "I've never seen anything like Many concertgoers were ap­
the guard be increased was hospitals. The number of injur­it," Lugananni said. "I can't
by telephone said the hostages parently unaware of the deaths ignored, according to State were "all well" but would not ed was not immediately known. even tell you what killed and injuries, and they were not Department officials. Ray Schwertman, a 49-year­them.'' mentioned from the stage. 
say why the ambulance went to

There are 2,500 to 3,000 old usher, said the crowd Officials listed the dead -most Concertgoer Michael Jordan,
the embassy. 

Americans in Libya, many of At U.N. headquarters in New surged into the 17 ,000-seat of them said to be of high school 17, said: "I was in the middle. 
them businessmen. The depart­Riverfront Coliseum just before
York, the Security Council was or college age -as seven males It was crazy. You had to fight to 
ment recommended they come the gates were to open at 7 p.m. 
and four females. Their identi­save your life.''
still seeking diplomatic ways

home if their work is not ''First, they threw a bottle ties were not released last And 15-year-old Suzanne Su­out of the month-long U.S. ­
essential, but very few have through a window in the door.
Iran crisis. Among the alterna­night. drack said: "You could see
taken up the suggestion. Then they pushed through the Dr. Alex Trott, emergency
tives under consideration was peopl~ getting_ .hurt.'' 













Tuesday, December 4, 1979 -page 2 

lDw-key because of Iran 
Carter to announce cam.paign 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­workers moving. raising dimmers in New York dent Carter plans to keep his Also keyed to the announce­Chicago, Atlanta and Austm; re-election announcement to­ment are large fundraising Texas. But he cancelled those day a low-key affair because of dinners during the week in tr~":el plans because of the Iran the Iran crisis, but campaign Washington and 11 other cities. CtlSlS. aides are pushing hard to raise Carter originally had planned The fundraising efforts them­$2. 5 million this week in a to make a six-state campaign selves, however, are going coast-to-coast series of fund­awing starting tomorrow, in­ahead full steam even without raisers. cluding appearances at fund-Carter's personal presence. 
Carter plans to make the announcement sometime dur­ing the day, probably at the White House. He will then attend a fundraising dinner tonight at a Washington hotel. He already has recorded a five minute television an­

ROCKIN YOU FROM THE TOWER nouncement to be broadcast at 7am-lam Daily 
8:55 p.m. EST Tuesday on the 

Also,CBS network. The campaign 
Taking, and Playing Your Requests All Daypaid for the air time. 
Long at #6400.
Campaign aides say they 
S.o Listen to,
have organized nearly 2,800 

Notre Dame's Student Rock, AM 64, WSND.''grassroots'' receptions around the country to coincide with the announcement. The parties, mostly in private homes, are intended to raise money, distribute campaign material and get volunteer 
Students to sign up for bus 
Sign ups for a bus to Detriot for Christmas break will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the LaFor­tune Little Theatre. Cost for round trip transportation is only $20. The bus ts scheduled to leave Notre Dame Dec. 20 and returnJan. 13. It will make two stops, one at the Hyatt Regency in Dearborn and again at the Somerset Mall in Troy. If you 

JUN\OR PAR£NRM 
are unable to attend the sign­up, contact Mary at 288-5465 or Don at 277-4327. 
LOTTERY FOR ROOMS AT

f-The Observer_ 
THE MORRIS INN
Night Editor: Rod Beard 
Asst. Night Editor: Ryan "no doz" Ver Berkmoes, Cindy 
LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATRE 
Kliros, Bill Keenan Copy Editor: Tom Jackman 
WEDNESDAY DECEMBER 5th
Third Floor Resident: Deir­dre Murphy 
News Editor: Mark Rust 





1====7pm!!
Editorial Layout: Colleen Sloan Sports Layout: Paul B. Mul­laney and Beth Huffson Sports Copy Editor: Jeff ? Powanda Typists: Beth Huffson, Mary Beth Budd, Beth Huffman, Kate Huffman, Amy Pecz­kowski EMT: S. Paul Selavko Proofreader: Mark Rust ND Day Editor: Mark Kelley SMC Day Editor: Peggy Schneeman Photographer: Tim Mc­Keogh 
Hooray our last paper! Now "no doz" can sleep! 
The Observer [USPS 581 920] Is published Monday through Fridly ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students Df Notre 011111 IIIII Saint Mary's College. Subscriptillls lillY be pun:llned IDr ml per yar IS11 per 18111111trJirom The Observer. I'.0. box 
0. Notre D11111. lndilnl 46556. Second class =e paid, Notre 011111, In­diana . 
The Observer ir 1 lllllllblr II tilt 
Associated Prea. All reprlductlln rights .... rtllrvtd. 

'.· .;_,c .'
·.,.L·,·,. -. ·, ., •• ,·"1"',"" • •,"': ..,•.-~ ......."'!' '',1..\.\.'..-1..' 
1 

The Observer Tuesday, December 4, 1979 -page 3 
Stresses prevention 
Committee discusses rape 

by Rosemary Mills Editor-in-Chief 
A committee on rape aware­ness last night discussed ex­panding the Rape Awareness program presented to the Notre Dame women resident assis­tants two weeks ago. Susan Tamborini, director of Holy Cross Hall (SMC), commented that she was pleased with the program but it only concerned the women. "I think the whole campus needs to be aware of it ­male as well as female," she said. 
Katie Kearney, director of Student Legal Atd and assistant rector of Farley Hall, related that a representative from stu­dent government had approach­ed her. According to Kearney, student government wishes to expand the program with a 20 minute to half-hour presenta-

Am. Studies presents 

forum 
The American Studies pro­gram will present an open forum entitled ''Careers in Public Rdadons," tonight in the Library Lounge at 7 p.m. All interested students are in­vited to attend. 

tion on rape, possibly in each 
section of the ND dormitories. 
Another option discussed in­
cluded using the Hall Presi­
dents Council as a core group to 
bring programs into the halls. 
Sr. John Miriam Jones, asso­
ciate provost, noted that "the 
sensittvity of the person who 
relates the informatton is essen­
tial." 
.James Roemer, dean of stu­
dents, added that he would like 
to consult such people as Pat 
Crosson, director of Psychologi­
calservices and Fr. Greg Green, 
assistant vice-president for Stu­
dent Affairs. After a discussion 
of these and other options, a 
subcommittee was appointed to 
present specific ideas on the 
make-up of a program and who 
should relate the information. 
The group will include Green, 
Crosson, HPC chairperson El­
len Dorney, and Bill Roche, 
student body president. 
Roche asked about the inclu­
sion of a rape awareness pro­
gram in the RA training. Roe­
mer said he would relay the 
question to Green, who is in 
charge of all RA's. Kearney 
then noted that while present 
RA's need to be informed about 
rape, the {>togram will be 
presented after the appoint­
ment of RA's for 1980-81 and 
that both groups can benefit 
from the presentation. 
Jones then asked if a regular 
system could be instituted ·which would alert the six wo­
men rectors when a rape or 
assault occured. Roemer sug­
gested that Rex Rakow, assis­tant director of ND !<ecurity, take this responsioility. Rakow will be working the 4 p.m. to midnight shift. 
· Glenn Terry, director of ND 
security, reported that security 
personnel could voluntarily at­
tend a Sex-Offense-Staff 
(S-0-S) presentation on rape. 
Missy Hennenberer, an ND 
senior who works with S-0-S 
protested, "I think it is impor­
tant that all Security people be 
made sensitive about rape.'' 
Terry agreed, but stated that 
there were problems with sche­
duling and that Security per­
sonnel would attend the presen­
tations on their own time, for 
which they would be paid 
overtime. Roemer then sug­
gested that a record be kept of 
all security employees who 
attend the program and that all 
others be encouraged to attend 
future training sessions. 

Bike storage begins this afternoon 
Btcycle storage at the football stadtum wil begin today from 1-4 p.m. at gate 14 and continue through Thursday. Bikes must be registered at the Lost & Found office, room 121 of the Administration Bldg., and must also have a serial number. 
If' ..._.. ~ ..... touJVF_IOOW,,.."C' 

ONCE AGAIN!!! STUDENT GOV'T 


HAVE LUNCH 


15 tickets per week
needprinting ina hurry?
Bengal Bouts 5 students per ticket contestants tickets available 
the' wiz of theprintingbiz!
to meet 

For all those interested in any questions call Mike Flynn : 8906
***********************************­
boxing in next semester's Ben­gal Bouts there will be a * * mandatory meeting tonight at 7 
TREATJ~YOUR PROF!!!




i The Observer i
p.m. in LaFortune's Ballroom. One topic of discussion will be : needs t'" · '"··--: .._......._.......,......"""....~......._..,_..~,_....-.~~r,.-._, 
how to raise rMney to make this golden anniversary Bengal 
* * 
Bouts and Nappy's last year at Notre Dame a great success. 
i Layout Personnel i 
This year our fund raising goal is $50,000 for the 50th Bengals. 
All boxers, both new and old, * ~ Interested students should contact * ~ are expected to attend. Also, 
~ John McGrath -phone 1715 ~ 
anyone interc:~sted in helping to raise money, including girls, is 
* * 
~**********************************
welcome. 

BUCKMINISTER FULLER TUESDAY DEC. 4th 
8:001 pm LIBRARY AUDITORIUM FREE ADMISSION 
RECEPTION 
FOLLOWING 

SPONSERED BY SlT ACADEMIC CO SION 

ursday, December 6-­Annual St. Nicholas' 
Day Party for the Child(en of the 

Notre Dame-St. Mary's Communit 
Beginning with theLighting of the Campus Christmas tree, at 6:30PM. in front of LaFortune. 
The party will be in LaFortune Ballroom, after the tree is lighted. 
Music, magic, gifts, goods, and SANTA CLAUS.will be featured 
All the children are invited to be . Santa's guests. 
On Saint..Nicholas Da_y, ThursdayDecember 6,.1979 Childi-en, please come with parents to celebrate the feast day of your own special Saint. 
Rev.RobertGrUfin,CSC ThP. UniversitY. Cha~lain 
' . ·--· .-. -.......... ~ ...... . 
Tuesday, December 4, 1979 -page 4 





Editorials 
The Iranian Crisis : 
The Chase Manhattan Bank 
and Notre Datne 
Recent events in Iran · siezure of the U.S. Embassy and the holding of hostages -have shaken this country and the international community. Such actions represent a brutal as­sault on the delicate machinery of international dipolmacy and must be vehemently· con­demnt>d. While media commen­taries have focused on this point and the demand to extra­dite:' the Shah, I would like to explore some of the explosive i-;sues which gave rise to this 
•:risi8 and which are not getting the attention they deserve. 
We should not allow our justifiable outrage at chis Irani­
an assault or normal diplomatic procedures to block out the voi,·e of legitimate third world anger. This anger has been Incubating for a long time as ,nany countries have had to endure the habitual manipula­t :on of their politics by the U.S. Our foreign policy has all too often supported unsavory local elites in an effort to ensure an hospitahk climate for exploita­tive transnational corporations. There have also been many instances of western banking mterests willingly accepting tht> loot of dictators. While the prest>nt crisis displays features which are the outcome of Iran's particular hisrory and relig10us tradition, it also reveals prob­lems which art> endemic co U.S. foreign policy throughout the 
1hird world. 
One side-effect of the media's coverage of this parlous affair has been the exposure afforded Iranian spokesmen. They have been given a chance to place Iran's considerable grievances before the world community. It has become clear that they want an international investigation of the Shah's activities and the return of the plunder which the Shah, his family and leaders of the former regime have taken 
The problem is real 
Dear Editor: 
A security problem has un­que~tionahly arisen at the Uni­verstty of Notre Dame du Lac. The problem exists in many forms: burglary, rape, assault and attempted murder. If the truth finally be known, these deprivations of p~rsonal liber­ties are committed primarily out of Iran. Reports in New York Times indtcate that as much as $17 to $20 billion may have been removed from the country. We must acknowledge the anger behind these de­mands and face our complicity in Iranian affairs during the past three clecades. 
In 1953 the C.I.A. put the Shah on his throne, so thwart­ing an Iranian political move­ment which sought to exercise full control over the country's resources. In the years that followed, U.S. foreign policy contin.ued to back the regime to the hilt and western corporate interests flourished. No sooner had the Shah been installed, when David Rockefeller and the Chase Manhattan Bank moved into the country in a massive way. Other corporations did likewise and U.S. support for the Shah's anti-~ommunist dic­tatorship appeared to provide a safe arena in which these business interests could oper­ate. This syndrome has notbeen peculiar to Iran, even if the brutality of the Shah's regime and the vast sums of money drained out of the country made it a notorious case. Iranian anger and Iranian anti-Ameri­canism should be heeded. It is too easy. too self-serving to feel aggrieved and to dismiss Aya­tollah Khomeini as a 'mad mullah': he is not. 
The involvement of the Chase Manhattan in Iran is only slowly being made apparent. It is a disturbing fact of political life in thtU.S.rhat citizens are, by and large, unacquainted with the role such transnational corpora­tions play in the moulding of our foreign policy. There are ocher examples of what this has meant. In addition to moving into Iran after the C.I.A. had installed the Shah, Chase Man­hattan put together a consorti­um of banks to bester the South 

African economy during a peri­od of capital flight from that country following the Sharpville massacre of 1960. At that point the South African government crushed all organized African resistance to apartheid, where­upon the Chase and other leading U.S. corporations flood­ed into the highly profitable apartheid system. We saw a comparable scenario in Chile. The C.I.A. and U.S. corpora­tions played a major role in the destruction of the constitution­ally elected socialist govern­ment headed by Salvador Al­lende. Thf> U.S. then found irself acutely embarrassed by the brutalities of the Chilean junta it helped to creat. In 1977 this dictatorship appears to have ordered the murder of Orlat1d Letelier who had served ar, Foreign Minsiter during the Allende years; Letelier and 
U.S.. citizen Ronnie Moffit died when Letelier's car exploded in Washington D.C. The U.S. cried to extradite the accused murderers, but the junta re­fused to <.:ooperate. "While the Carter Admmistration was call­ing the former head of the Chilean secret police. Gen. Manuel Contreras Sepulveda, a 'terrorist' and was summoning Amb~ssador George W. Lan­dau ~ome for a critical review of relations with the military re­gime\, Chase Manhattan Bank was ~~reparing to move into the new \>ffices of it!; first branch in Chilq". (The New York Times, Thursday, October 4, 1979.) 
This involvement of Chase Manhattan in the political econ omy of repressive regimes raises a moral dilemma very close to home. Fr. Hesburgh sits on the Board of Chase Manhattan. He may not do so in his formal capacity as Presi­dent of Notre Dame, but his presence is inescapably associ­ated with our university. We 

P.O.BoxQ 
Peter W alshe 
may be sure that Fr. Hesburgh 
accepted the invitation to sit on 
the Board from the highest 
motives, the best of intentions, 
but in light of the Banks 
dubious record can he in good 
conscience remain on the 
Board? I submit that David 
Rockefeller is using Fr. Hes­
burgh's good name, and his 
reputation as a morally com­
mitted citizen-servant of the 
U.S., to provide some degree of 
respectability for the Chase 
Manhattan enterprise. Notre 
Dame tries to function as a 
Christian university, so it is not 
absurdly idealistic to suggest 
that it should maintain a critical 
distance from ruling elites and 
their institutions. 
For several years now Notre Dame has been encouraging the study of justice issues. It does not make sense for the University to promote these efforts if at the same time it maintains a close link with an instituation like the Chase Man­hattan with its ethically shoddy history of political and econo­mic opportunism. Tryin~ to have it borh ways, all the nme, will lead inexorably to cynicism. 
The Iranian crisis contains many lessons for us all; it could inaugurate a period when, in the spirit of Matthew 7:5-6, we might begin to examine our own sinful history, particularly the scope we have given trans­nationals to pillage the third world and to shamefully manip­ulate polities. These issues will remain with us long after the current crisis has eased and, one hopes, the hostages have been released . 
Dr. Peter Walshe is Professor 
of Government and Interna­
tional Studies; he was the 
recipient ofNotre Dame's 1979 
Grenville Clark Award for his 
contn"butions to the cause of peq.ce ofhuman nghts. 
within a one mile radius from the central campus. This area is callously referred to as "zone 10'' or Off-Campus. It must also be considered an integral segment of the University com­munity. However, the Univer­sity stands idle because of jurisdictive and territorial dif­ferences with the South Bend Police Department_ Conse­quently, this futile dispute has prevented the University from offering any real and effective security to its Off-Campus re­

.sidents. The University prides itself as being a leader in the crusade ted, robbed and raped. Classes for human rights. Its concern in self-defense and rape-pre­has extended into areas as far vention are completely useless away as Asia, Africa., Europe when a gun is placed to one's and South America. Yet, Notre head. Dame students living in South Those in positions of authority Bend, Indiana are continualty with the power to initiate subjected to an alarming rate of change should do so. The serious crimes. It is time for University has a moral obli~a­the University to realize that tion to provide its students wuh these malicious crimes are com­adequate security. Differences mitted in its own backyard. with the South Bend Police 
These crimes have occured and Department should be re­will occur all year if no decisive solved. Funds should be allo­and effective action is taken. If cated for increased patrols us­no action is taken then more ing either the Notre Dame students shall be shot, assaul-.>ecurity force or some private 
Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 
fAJ&LL, I 

II 5tV8177ES /AI& SJlJIJW 6ET REVIVAL.PARJY! IT OV5R.IA/!TH. 
~ ·r L/1<13 IT! 88511?&5, IT'S 
.! \ !<If& VJITH POS­


/?.JGHT. 8&5!1?&5,
I Gl./&55 
JINYON6 IAJHO
!WIIAVeTO 
COIJlPN1GCT ON

OR/IIAJ Tfl£ liN& 
A 7AlK SHOIAJ

5CMffWHEI?&. 
security firm. 
A solution is necessary. If it is a matter of funds then the University should have no prob­lem, especially when one con­siders the gravity of the situa­tion at hand and the financial solvency of the institution. 
The problem is real. The problem is now. The solution is at hand. One can only pray to God that some action is taken before a student is killed. I can only pray that this letter does not become another echo in the call for student security. 
William V. Cuddy 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and

-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-rn-chief ........ Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ............. ~ ...Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Edttor .... .Kathlet>n ConnellyBox Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor.............. Ann Gales Photo Editor ....... ....... Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor . ....... M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ........ Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor .................... Mark Rust Production Manager .... John McGrath of the University of Notre Dame du lac and .the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager ........ .Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It does not opmwns on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor .. ...Ellen Buddy Controller .. ................Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged SMC News Editor ... ..... Margie Brassil Circulation Manager ...... Greg Hedges 
-------------~ ---~-~ 
'1 

Tuesday, December 4, 1979 -page 5
The Observet 
I 
I 

Twro dlie in Puerto Rican attack 
TOA BAJA, Puerto Rico (AP) -U.S. military in Puerto Rico in The windshield and front side Unidentified gunmen ambush­almost a decade. Violence by windows of the bus were rid­ed a busload of U.S. Navy underground pro-independence dled with bullet holes -police personnel yesterday morning in groups generally has been li­counted 41 -and shards of glass a barrage of pistol and shotgun mited to attacks on property. lay in a pool of blood beneath fire, killing two servicemen and Rear Adm. Arthur K. Knoi­the first passenger seat to the wounding 10 other persons, zen, senior U.S. naval officer in left of the aisle. · authorities reported. the Caribbean, called it a The critically wounded were 
The wounded included three ''heinous crime we cannot tol­taken to the Veterans Adminis­women. One of the women and erate.'' tration hospital in San ] uan, two or three of the men were The Navy said names of the and those in serious condition hospitalized in serious condi­victims were being withheld were hospitalized at the Roose­tion. until next-of-kin could be noti­velt Roads Navy Base. 
No one claimed immediate fied. But local authorities said responsibility for the attack, the the two dead men were the bus first fatal assault against the driver and a radar technician. 
The yellow bus was taking 18 

DSOC 
Navy communications tech­nicians -all enlisted personnel ­
A/ESE(; holds meeting 
from the Sabana Seca Navy 
base in this town 10 miles west 
of San Juan to work at a 
transmitting tower about a mile tomorrowsponsors away, across non-Navy land. At a spot where a narrow two-lane asphalt highway The Democratic Socialist Or­banquet passes a factory and a drive­ganizing Committee (DSOC) 
way, police said, a van blocked will be meeting tomorrow at the 
AIESEC-Notre Dame is spon­the path of the bus and terror­IUSB administration building at soring "An Evening with John ists opened fire, apparently 1700 Mishawaka Ave. Wooden" for their annual Win­with a shoq~un and pistols. DSOC is a nation-wide organi­ter Banquet which will be held One survivor, who did not zation founded by Michael Har­Dec. 9 at 6:00p.m. in the ACC. give his name, said the driver rington that works within the 
Coach Wooden will be speaking was killed instantly by a shot Democratic National Party to on business motivation. under the right eye, and a pas­give socialism a more effective The dinner starts at 6:oop.m. senger took the wheel and voice in America. . with cocktails, dinner is at 7 drove the bus back to Sabana The public is welcome. For 
p.m. Tickets are $15 per plate. Seca. Survivors told police the more information about DSOC terrorists' van sped away after or transportation to· the meet­
the attack. 
Student Comittee seeks help 
The Transfer Student Orienta­tion Committee needs help in planning and carrying o~t activ­ities for all new transfer stu­dents entering the University in January. Freshmen and Soph­-omores are particularly encour­aged to apply. For ~unher information, contact Ttm at 1166. 

.THE HEIRESS 1H f ;, l r : Ph~:;e 264·4176 



Waiters/ 
•

wru.tresses 
Shifts available 3pm-llpm llpm-7am 
e enjoy top pay efree insurance epaid vacations eprofit sharing 
full or part time positions available apply in person at 
Denny's
52626 U"s 31 N equal opportunity employer 
·c 

ing, call Paul Lauer at 232-9264. 



LOOK! 
THE OBSERVER WILL PUBLISH IT'S 
LAST ISSUE BEFORE BREAK ON FRI 
DEC. 7th, 
THERE WILL BE A SPECIAL SECTION 
OF CLASSIFIED CHRISTMAS GREETINGS 
TO PLACE YOUR PERSONAL IN THIS SECTION COME TO THE BSERVER OFFICE BETWEEN THE 
HOURS OF 10-2 
MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
DEADLINE IS 2:00 ON 

WED. DEC. 5th 
When in Southern California visit ..~~~~~!-;_STUDIOS TOUR 
UNIVERSAL PICTURES PRESENTS AN ASPEN FILM SOCIETY WILLIAM E. McEUEN­DAVID V. PICKER PRODUCTION ACARL REINER FILM 
STEVE MARTIN In 
1fieJERl< 
The Observer -SportsBoard Tuesday, December 4, 1979-page 6 
S\\'imming 
NOTRE DAME 61, WESTERN ONTARIO 52 First place finishers 400-yd. relay--NO (louis Bowersox, Bob Fink, Pat McAllister, Jeff Hauswirth), 3:52.9 
1QOO-yd. freestyle--NO--Michael Hilger, 10:23.5 200-yd. freestyle--WO--Paul Thompson, 
1:48.7 50-yd. freestyle--NO--John Komora, :22.6 20G-yd. individual medley--WO--Steve 
Brown, 2:03.3 1-meter diving--WO--Kevln McKenzie, 
274.35 2DO-yd. butterfly--NO--Don Casey, 2:03.2 100-yd. freestyle--WO--Paul Thompson, 
:49.4 

NOTRE DAME RELAYS 
200-yd. backstroke--WO--Steve Brown, 
Final Standings
2:02.4 50o-yd. freestyle--NO--Michael Hilger, Notre Dame 98, Wisconsin, Stevens point5:00.9 

76, John Carroll 65, Toledo 65, Wisconsin,
3-meter diving--WO--Kevin McKenzie, 290 Milwaukee 37, Chicago 22 200-yd. breaststroke--WO--Paul Thompson, 
First place finishers 
2:18.7 4oo-yd, freestyle relay--WO (Steve Ratz, 200-yd. freestyle relay--NO (Andy Piszkin Paul Wadeland, Michael Clifton, Mark 
Mike Bernard, John Komora, Thorn Miller), 3:26.8 Krutsch), 1:31.2 
-
Molarity by Michael Molinelli 
I I 
I 
I I I 
~ 







400-yd. individual medley relay--NO (Don Casey, Rode Mclaughlin, Pat McDivitt, Gary Severyn), 3:50.3 
1 and 3-meter diving relay--Toledo {Jim Bertz, Jeff Grohnke), 257.2 
20D-yd. backstroke relay--NO (Michael Lee, Louis Bowersox, Mclaughlin, Glenn Battle), 1:44.6 
800-yd. freestyle relay-NO (Michael Hilger, Jeff Hauswirth, Dave Campbell, Severyn), 7:18.0 
20D-yd. breaststoke relay--Toledo (Gary Breymaier, Craig Small, Tim Wright, Steve Blazoff), 1:57.0 
200-yd. medley relay--Wisc.-Stev. Pt. (Brian Botsford, Jim Gutske, lael Martin, Jim Van Bakel), 1:44.8 
400-yd. freestyle relay--John Carroll (Pete Schmidt, Steve Durgo, Bryan Alltto, Paul Huslemarr), 3:19.3 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING WESTERN ONTARIO 86, NOTRE DAME 44 First Place Finishers 
100-yd. backstroke--WO--Heather Clarke, 1:o7.7 100-yd. Individual medley--WO--Joanne Kennedy, 1:06.8 200-yd. freestyle--WO--lynne Ashton, 2:07.4 
50-yd. butterfly--WO--GIIIiam Main, :29.7 
3-meter diving--WO--Yvonne Smeulders, 190.50 100-yd. breaststroke--ND--Terry Schindler, 1:15.8 2DO-yd. medley relay--WO (Clarke, Jody Determann, Barb Anker, Sue Anker), 1:51.9 
500-yd. freestyle--WO--Sue Beckett, 5:48.0 
100-yd. freestyle--NO--Terry Fitzsimmons, :58.0 50-yd. backstroke--WO--Ciarke, :31.2 50-yd. breaststroke--WO--Marla Skutovlch, 
:34.8 
100-yd butterfly--WO--Maln, 1:04.2 1-meter dlving--WO--Smeulders, 209.95 50-yd freestyle--NO--Terry Fitzsimmons, 26.5 ?00-vd. freestyle relay--WO (Shellv Moore, 
Beckett, Kennedy, Barb Hori), 1:52.2 
Basketball 
The Top Twenty teams In The Associated Press college basketball poll, with first-place votes In parentheses, records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17-16-15­14-13-12-11-10-9-B-7-6-5-4-3-2-1: 
1. Indiana (28) 2. Duke (18) 3. Ohio St. (7) 4. Notre Dame [1)  1-0 3-0 1-0 1-o  1,118 1,0981 ~-­' !107 tout  
5. Kentucky (5)  3-1  874  
6. louisiana State  1-0  866  
7. UCLA  2-0  706  
8. North Carolina  1-1  647  
9. St. John's, N.Y.  2-0  571  
10. Depaul  0-0  560  
11. Syracus  1-0  559  
12 Purdue  1-0  542  
13. Virginia  2-0  514  
14. Lousivllle  1-0  475  
15. Oregon State  2-0  259  
16. Marquette  1-0  216  
17. Georgetown, DC  1-0  200  
18. Brigham Young  1-1  174  
19. Kansas  1-0  144  
26. Iowa  1-D  101  




CHAPIN 

A Benefit Concert for the World Hunger Year

$200,000 
Friday Dec. 7 • 8 P·M· Notre Dame ACC
INVENTORY 
Tickets $6.50 and 5.50 on sale at the ACC Box Office
131 N. Main St., Elkhart
Sat., Dec. 8 -Sun., Dec. 1_6 
9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Across from McDonalds
0 0 oe(\ ~ 
also at the usual ACC ticket outlets
0 I ~...~~~~ in Downtown Elkhart 
~, ·~ "+\ 

and River Oty Records Stores in
0 ~\ 

See Mitch and Willie, The Wild and Crazy Guys: 
South Bend and Misawaka 

•
=j

• • F • a
'We Will Not Be Undersold' 
--~--..,.­

The Observer -Sports Tuesday, December 4, 1979 -page 7 
• • • White
rT 
[continued from page 8.] 
Ferguson had 12, 38 and 50. 
The rest of the top 10 finishers were Southern Cal quarterback Paul McDonald, 92 points; South Carolina running back 
• .. Jackson 
[continued from page 8.] 
personnel, and played the way we expected them to play.'' 
Orlando Woolridge and Rich Branning were the other Notre Dame players scoring in double figures, with 15 and 10 points, respectively. 
Despite the win, Phelps saw one area for improvement. ''I'm still concerned about our offensive rebounding," he said. "But I think if we concentrate more on the boards we will imJl~?ve ilSvtbe sea~on progres­ses. 
DETROIT BUS1!!! SIGN-UP TUES. DEC 4th 7:00 pm LAFORTUNE THEATRE 

20.00 
D
OUR 

PREPARE FOR· J41st 
MCIT·OAT· LSAi ·OMIT~ ORE· ORE PSYCH· ORE BID PCAT•OCAT•IAT •MAT· SAT 
1MBI,n,m·ECFMG·FLEX· VQE 
NDB I, D • NPB I • NLE 
Flexible Programs & Hours 
Visit Any Center And See For Yourself Why We Make The Difference 
ICII N
~~~ 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER
291-3150 

TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
~ 

Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782 Centers in More Than 80 Major US Cities Puerto Rico, Toronto, Canada & Lugano Switzerland 
.-;·· /­
' 
'" 

George Rogers, 81; Purdue quarterback Mark Herrman, 54; Florida State nose guard Ron Simmons, 41, and Alabama quarterback Steadman Shealy, 32. 
Although the Downtown Ath­letic Club of New York awards the trophy annually to "the out­standing college football player in the United States," all but three of the 44 previous winners were offensive backs, including flanker Johnny Rodgers of Ne­braska in 1972. 
The only lineman to win the Heisman were two-way ends, Larry Kelley ofYale in 1936 and Leon Hart of Notre Dame in 1949. Ohio State running back Archie Griffin, who captured the Heisman in 1974-75, is the only two-time winner. 
In a telephone hookup from Los Angeles, White said he was "surprised because I really felt Billy (Sims) showed a strong comeback, especially the game he had against Nebraska.'' 
Sims rushed for 247 yards against Nebraska on Nov. 24. 
lntroducinp.... 
The Senior Closs Formal ROJDe That Theme contest 
Submit themes to ND-SMC Dining Halls 5-6pm 
December 5_ _ LaFortune Lobby 12-1
67 

SMC-0-C Lobby 12-1 Winner receives dinner for two at Moonraker 
All cl<:;sified ads must be received by 5:00p.m , two days prior 
to .he issue in which the ad is run. The Obstrvtr office will accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All 
cla~sifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.




Classifieds 
Greg.
Notices 
For Rent 
Interested in learning more about the life Student house tor rent, second semester.
of a Brother, Sister or Priest in the Walking distance to campus. Nice. CallChurch today? Come to adiscussion and 
272-1729 after 5:00
film in the Farley Hall lounge, Thursday, December 6. 1979 at 9:30p.m or talk to 
Room tor rent. Mature. clean, respons­the Indiana Campus Ministry Renewal ible student only. Furnished kitchen andTeam in the library toyer on Wednesday laundry priveledges. Call 289-0103evening or during the day on Thursday. 
nights and weekends or 232-6181 days. 
Mandatory Typist meeting wed., Dec. 5­Room for rent -near rides. $45.00 per6:30 -Observer Office. 
month. 233-1329. 
Used book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 
We rent dependable cars from $7.95 a9-7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Rd. 
day and $.07 a mile. Ugly Ducklin2 Rent
Niles. 683-2888 
-A -Car. 921 E. Jefferson lvd. 
Mishawaka, Ind. 255-2323
Detroit Bus!! Round trip $20.110. Sign-up 
Tuesday Dec. 4th 7:110 pm (Lafortune 
Theatre) or call Mary 388-5465 

Wanted 
Alterations for men's and women's clothing. Call 255-6275 
Need 50 Notre Dame-St. Joseph's Col. basketball tickets, student or GA. WillTyping. IBM Selectric. Call 277-0296 
pay. Call Barney, 1382. Will do typing -Reasonable -Neat ­
Need ride to D.C. area or Norfolk area forAccurate. Call 287-5162 
Break. Richmond would be perfect. Share usual. Call Steve at 3047.
Professional typist. IBM Selectric II. Mrs. Burnore. Near Campus. 272-3134.
. .. ......., Needed: Ride tiJ,iVld from Lansing/MSU 
area the weekeno of Dec. 7 -9. PleaseProfessional Typing. Quicl: 1day service. 
call Maria at 277-3077
Will pick up and deliv11r. Call Jan 282-1805 or 684-1414. 
Part-time bartender wanted. Minimum wage to start. Hours flexible. 289-4709.
Morrissey Loan Fund. Last day to apply Jim.
for loans before X-Mas break is Dec. 12. $20-$200. One percent interest. M-F. 
Need ride to Rochester, NY for Christ­11:30-12:3: 
mas. Call Jim. 1539 Sign up for Bus to Wash. D.C. Wed. and 
Need ride to Philadelphia. New JerseyThurs. 7-9 P.M. 2nd Floor LaFortune. 
area for Christrr1as break. Will help with gas -Dan 1502
Bus to Trumbull and Mahoning Counties on Dec. 21. Interested? Cali Karl at 6726 Need member of N.D.-S.M.C. Commun­or Mark at 1870 by Friday night. 
ity to drive new car to Seattle Washington and return in 1979 car after Christmas Call 232-0453.

Lost & F'ound break. 
Wanted:  NO-Miami ticket stubs in very  
good  condition.  Call  after  6 PM  - 
255-7103  
Lost· Green Backpack fille1d with semes­ -----------------­ 
tar's  books  and  notes,  .and  important  Need  a  ride  to  Rochester,  N.Y.  for  
term  paper.  I  am  lost  without  it.  Christmas  Break.  Call  Barbara  - 
Reward!  Call Steve 8298 or 82110 If no  234-7220  
answer.  last seen in Badin Laundry.  
I have  room,  riders  to  Kansas  C1ty,  
Found Contact Lens in Case.  Cali 6635.  Christmas.  Dave 3637  
Lost:  One Navy Blue, Down Parka.  If  Desparate for ride to Ann Arbor Dec. 8.  
you have any ideas of its where abouts  Will share $.  Call  Donna 3564  
please call 8502  
Rides needed to Friday's Dead Concert in  
Lost clothes  on  hangers behind  Zahm  Indianapolis share expenses and 1 free  
Hall.  Call Rick at 288-2023  ticket call Rick 1048  
Lost: C-3 Parking Lot, Tuesday before Thanksgiving break. Stocking hat, hand knitted, brown loose-fitting. Reward offered. Call 289-5964. 


Have Van, Need riders to Oklahoma or St. Louis. Leave 20 or sooner Brian 232-8594 

For Sale 
For Sale: 13 Watt/channel technics receiver $80! Call Scoop at 1771 
For sale '72 nova VB, P.S., P.B., A/C, New Tires. Engine in excellent condition. 
$1050 or B.O. Mike 3770 
American Airlines V2 fare coupons -$20 each. Call Xavier 8676 
Like new-r self bookcase dare wood tone (press board) $15.00. Call 7062 Theresa. 
For Sale: 1 student season basketball ticket, padded seat. Call Greg, 3662 
For Sale: Sony TC-558 Reel to reel. Auto reverse tape deck. Three motors six heads and many other features. Two sure 589-S mics included. Must sell call Gene at 1743 or 281H387 
For Sale: 68 Impala V-B,P.S., P.B. air very clean $550.00 Ph 233-2395 after 5:00 
3 WHO tickets_Jll~~le.~ Call1824 
' 

For Sale: 1973 Toyota Carolla 4 Door, 35 MPC, Air Conditioning, FM-8 track stereo, Excellent condition. 232-5484 or 288-6350 
Holiday Sale! $25 worth of free books to first place winner plus 2nd and 3rd prizes. Also many gift items: books, book sets, calendars and games. Special sales throughout season. Visit PAN, DORA'S BOOKS* 937 South Bend Ave., near Eddy. 
For Sale: Humidifiers, compact cool vapor humidifiers by Gerber. 6-month guar. $13.00. Call John 3588 
For Sale-Two WHO tickets-Dec. 8-$50 -Fran 8168 
United half-tare coupon $40 cash or best offer. Call 4462 

Tickets ' 
Grat'.lful Dead ticket(s) needed for Chi· 
tago. Monday or Wednesday night. Call Pat: 233-5686 
Rangers do it better. Ask Jim. 
Beth, Happy Birthday from your favoriteATTENTION cousin. Take care.
SENIOR 
Matt

CHEG'S 
T.A.-ING YOUR CLASSES WAS TRUELY A PLEASURE.  Beth' Happy 20th!!Don't drink the bars dry!! Pam  
GOOD LUCK ON YOUR FINALS. I'M CONFIDENT YOU'll DO WELL  Keith-We'll miss you in Pontiac, but we'll get out of our brain on the 5:15 for you.(.:.just because we all get around).  
HAPPY HOLIDAYS  Magic Busdriver  
BILBO  Test anxiety monster escapes and runs  
to Omaha Michael, Beirded EddiE, and  wild on SMC-ND campuses!  
Horny Curley, Thanks for making my Birthday great! Phil P.S. Here's to good friends.  so  Ted, Thanx for the party-hopping, snow-throwing Sat. nite...See you around ... Pan  
Need Ride to 0' Hare on Dec. 20th or 21st (earlier if necessary) will pay ALL gas and tolls. 8858  Therese Anne Brown and Lisa McNelis-Bitte, Warum Keine Nachricht? lch sage, Pass Auf! Frau Flandorfer  
Carl Lunblad-K.M.A.  To Pea and E.­ 
Carl is more all American tllan even Chris Lyons.  Thar.b tor everything. You guys and always right! Say Cheese! Love,  
Girls: For that last fling of the semester, or if you'd like to be able to say that  The Leech Woman P.S. you-know-whats forever!!!  
you've gone out with areal stud this year, give Carl a call-8866-He's lett Fri. and Sat. unbooked.  Gigi· You're the sweetest around Thanks!  sewing  teacher  
DEBBA- Teamomucho  
Have the greatest 21st!!! Love, Keith  On Ttfursday Dec. 6 the Plastic Hymie Band opens its long awaited 1979 tour  
Cage that test anxiety Monster!  featuring the high energy sounds which made ·;t famous, it promises to be a  
Anyone interested in taking a chartered  happening.  Be there at 9:00.  
bus to the waren, Youngstown, Oh. area for Xmas break, call Mark 1879 or Carl 6726 by Dec. 10.  YOU MUST SEE "THE HEIRESS" THIS WEEKEND!!!  
!ISophomores! ! Will SMC beat ND?? Come to the game and find out. It's SMC Sophomore night at the B-Ball game: Tuesday December 4th at 7:00 p.m. at Angela. After the game enioya Pi;:za Party in the Snack Bar for oniy 1.00. Come out and support our team!!  CAGE THE TEST ~NXIETY MONSTER' SCARED ABOUT TAK!NG FINALS? DO YOU FREEZE BEFORE TAKING YOUR TESTS7 ON SATURDAY* DECEMBER 8TH FROM 1:00 -4:00 IN THE SMC CLUBHOUSE MARY THEIS FROM THE COUNSELING AND CAREER DE VELOPMENT CENTER WILL HELl-YOU LEARN TO RELAX AND TAKE  
All SMC sophomores interested in work­ing on the production crew for the talent show for Parent's weekend, there will be a meeting Tuesday, December 4th from 7;30 -8:300 in room 203 H.C. Please  THOSE TESTS MORE EASILY' BRING· BLANKETS AND PILLOWS FOR COM.' FORT. COME ON SATURDAY AND LET'S CAGE THAT TEST ANXIETY MONSTER'  
Attent!!  Questions call Anita 4280  Dan,  

,.. Now tnat I've seen Goose's and Velcro,
Huff-­

Desperately need: 2 tickets for UCLA what about onions?
Have awonderful 20th birthday. You're
basketball game. Call Jerry 232·6296 Evelyn
a great pool partner' We'll celebrate at 
Bleacher season basketball package. For Goose's. "11 you like pina coladas and getting sale. Best offer. 6789 caught in the rain,
Little Goose 

Personals 
·­

John Davenport likes to see his name in print. 
SNAKEMAN [MIKE BURTON], . You're looking good, just like a snake '"the grass!! Hissfully yours, 
I'.S, CHIEF!! SNAKELADY 
It you're not into health food,Renegade--if you do like champagne,Happy 20th! We'll make up for it If you like making love at midnight.Saturday at Giuseppe's. in the dunes on the cape,Panama You're the lady I've looked for, 
come with me and escape."Great party 823! (We're expecting lots Saturday was like adream. more next semester!) Thanks, SS13 
Sheet Exchange today? Call Shawn's Heiress, congratulations on a fine per-Mr. Syburg, the cast and crew ofThe 
sheet changing service. Ask about her formance. 
"hospital corners" 
) 

Found: Before break In L1Fortune small silver pen with the Initial "B" attached by asmall chain. Lost and found -Adm. Building. 
Lost: N.D. class ring. White Gold with blue stone. Initials. G.J.A. Call 1149 Need ride to Mercede, California for Christmas. Will share expenses. Cali 7934. 
Need money for Christmas? Undergraduates wanted tor two short-term research projects. Both tasks deal with assessing student opinions. 
Involves 2V2 hours work and can be completed in just one day. Also, can be arranged to fit your schedule. 
Contact Bob at ext. 3886 or ?77-:l<lll::l tnr schedulinc. 

Tuesday, December 4, 1979 -page 8 

Jackson paces ND in victory 

by Mark Perry Sports Editor 
Strong inside play by Tracy Jackson in the first half and a potent fast break helped Notre Dame hold off a strong Iowa State team 87-77, in basketball action at the ACC last night. 
Jackson scored 11 . of his game-high 20 points in the opening half, including seven of nine on free throws generated by his aggressive penetration towards the basket. The Irish built up a 43-36 intermi:;sion lead that was never challenged in the second half. 
Kelly Tripucka added 17 points for Notre Dame, and the twv forwards combined for 12 points in the first seven minures ro build up a 20-10 lead. 
Iowa State rallied to within four at 31-27, but a 12-6 outburst, led by six points from Jackson, put the Irish out of reach. 
·'Tracy had a lot of confidence going tonight,'· said Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps. "He really needed a game like this. He did a good job of 
! hitting rhe boards, hustled throughout the game and shot very well. 

"We played well because we did an excellent job of forcing them into our transition game,'' Phelps added. "We have to get our press going, especially with (Bill) Hanzlik out. We gave up some easy points, but you can gamble with the lead." 
While Jackson, Tripucka, and the rest of the starters forged out the Irish lead, Phelps got so~e more excellent play from his. younger players that enabl­ed Notre Dame to keep it. 
'']ohn Paxson and Tim An­dree gave us a big tift in the second half,'' Phelps comment­ed. ''They played well and gave the starters the rest they need­ed, and kepr up the momentum and the: lead.'' 
Andree scored 10 points in 13 minutes and was very stro,ng under the boards for the Irish, while Paxson quarterbacked the offense and scored six points. 
''Tim has had two good ball games thus far,'' Phelps ob­served. "He has given us 13 minutes of solid play in both games, and really goes to the basket strong. Both Paxson and Andree have been playing well in pressure situations.'' 
Iowa State coach Lynn Nance felt that lapses by his squad were the big reason behind the Irish victory. 
"You have to play with high intensity the whole game if you want to be a good team," Nance noted. "We had two stretches of about four or five minutes where we lost it, and that's where we got burned. 
·'I felt Notre Dame played very well for this time of year. he added. ''They are deserving of their ranking, have excellent 
[crmtinued on page 7.] 

Irish grapplers finish seventh ·in Rochester tournament 
Over weekend 
ND takes relays, dual tneet 
by Michael Ortman weeks ago in interhall football. : ge's decision. 
Sports Wn'ter But whar he was supposed to do ' Both meets were over 1n 
and what he did were two· surprisingly short order, due in 
The Notre Dame swimming different things. large part to the remarkably team started its season with a ''.John came to practice on ; efficient 'job of an entirely new bang last weekend, finishing Tuesday, and told me he want­group of judges and timers. first in the 16th annual Notre ed to be timed in the 100 free," Notre Dame's newly-formedDame Invitational Relays on said Irish coach Dennis Stark women's swimming team com­
Fridar night, and then downing Hashing a smile that stretched peted for the first time this year long-time rival Western Ontario from ear to ear. "The doctm on Saturday, also against West­in the season's first dual meet told him ·to try what he could ern Ontario. With their events on Saturday, 61-52. and stop if it hurt him. I warned intermingled with the men's, 
In Friday's invitational, the him to push off easy and then the Irish women, currentlyIrish grabbed a quick 14 points, get going. We timed him at seeking varsity status, were finishing first in the 200-yard : 5 I , just two seconds off his easily outdistanced by the ex­freestyle relay. Trailing Wis­best time all last year." perienced Mustangs, 86-44. consin-Stevens Point by a half Komora responded to his The Fitzsimmons sisters, Josie second with just 50-yards re­unexpected good health by and Terry, led Notre Dame with maining, Notre Dame's Thorn swimming on one first and one two second and two first place
Krutsch ~unged into the water second place relay team on finishes respectively.fi>r the final leg. Friday night and then winning The Irish hope to continue 
''Swimming a 50 free is one the 50-yard freestyle and finish­their winning ways on Fridaything," said Krutsch, "but ing second in the 100 free on when they host Bowling Green when your opponent jumps in Saturday. His time of :22.6 was at 7:00 p.m. The Falcons clob­that much ahead of you, it the same as Krutsch's but bered the Irish last season, really puts the pressure on. I'm Komora was granted the jud-79-34. just glad we won.'' 
That thrilling win set the tone for what was soon to become a 
White nabs Heisman Trophy,
blowout. The Irish went on to 
take the next four swimming 
relays and post an insurmount­
outpolls Sooner tailback Sims
able 70-42 lead midway through 
the meet. 
When the water had settled, NEW YORK (AP) -Tailback Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, the Irish had accumulated 98 Charles White of Southern South, Midwest, Southwest and points, a whopping 22 ahead of California, the second leading Far West. Sims was runner-up runner-up Stevens Point and 33 rusher in college football his­in each district except theFar ahead of third place finishers tory, won the 1979 Heisman West, where he finished third Toledo and John Carroll who Trophy yesterday easily out­behind Wilson. tied with 65 points. Wisconsin­distancing last year's winner, White, a 6-foot, 185 pound Milwaukee and Chicago finish­Billy Sims of Oklahoma. senior' from San Fernando, ed fifth and sixth with 3 7 and 22 White received 453 first-place Calif., led the nation in rushing points respectively. votes, 144 seconds and 48 this season with 1,803 yards in 
The Irish continued their big · thirds for a total of 1,695 points. 10 games. Sims was fourth start on Saturday afternoon Sims was a distant second with with 1,506 yards, but 529 came with a convincing win over 77 3 points, including 82 first­in his last two games, after Western Ontario. The much­place ballots, 180 seconds and balloting had begun. improved Mustangs, who fin­167 thirds. The only other players to ished last season with a lack­Brigham Young quarterback receive more than 100 votes luster 2-8 mark, are already 2-1 Mark Wilson was third with 589 were Ohio State quarterback this year. points. Wilson received 72 Art Schlichter with 251 and 
Junior captain and two-time firsts, 124 seconds and 125 Notre Dame running back most valuable swimmer John thirds. Vagas Ferguson with 162. Komora was supposed to miss White, who finished fourth in Schlichter received 19 first, 54 the first three dual meets the Heisman balloting a year seconds and 36 thirds. while because of broken ribs and a ago, carried each of the six geo­
[continued on page 7.]

punctured lung suffered four graphical regions this time -the 
by Bill Marquard Sports Wn'ter 
It was a tournament of firsts for Notre Dame wrestling tn­captain Dave DiSabato and a tournament of split seconds for the rest of the Irish squad as they finished seventh in the 14th annual Rochester Invita­tional Tournament this week­end. 
DiSabato outclassed the field at I.14 pounds to clinch his second R.I.T. title. The Colum­bus, Ohio, native outscored his four foes 58-16 in the two-day tourney, his closest match being an 8-2 affair in the semi­finals. 
More importantly, those four wins upped DiSabato's career victory mark to 79, tying him with past great Pat McKillen for first on the all-time Irish wrestling win list. The talented senior is almost assured of reaching the 80 mark this weekend. 
''What can you really say about Dave?" wondered Ray Sepeta, now in his third year as Irish wrestling coach. "His years of hard work and dedica­tion are really obvious. Dave hasn't even reached his peak and he's leaving everyone in his wake.'' 
But for the rest of the Irish, seconds seemed to make the difference. 
''Time played a big part in the tournament,'' recalls Sepeta. "Several of our wrestlers, in­cluding Curt Rood and AI Mattaliano, could have won matches had there been a few extra seconds in the period. They had just started moves which, if completed, could have been match-winners but the time ran out. 
"In the same respect, some of our other wrestlers lost matches with just a few seconds left, so time was definitely a big factor." 
Bur time was not a deterrent to sophomore John Iglar. Com­bining basic units of strength and finesse, the Cincinnati, Ohio, product won three of his five matches to capture fourth place at 177 pounds. After losing his first match 13-4, Iglar posted 6-2, 7-0, 7-4 wins before dropping the consolation final face-off 
}unil'r AI Mattaliano also won 
three of five to garner "ixth 
place larels at 1)8. 
·'I've got to give all our wre-stlers credit,·' remarked Sepeta. ''They showed a marked improvement since the Michigan State tournament, particularly the freshmen.'' 
Four Irish wrestlers posted two wins apiece: freshmen Paul DeBaggis and Rich Tur­geon, sophomore Curt Rood and senior tri-captain Chris Favo. 
Now that those early season tournaments are behind them, the Irish wrestlers have to get down to business as they em­bark on their grueling dual meet slate. 
Wth hopes of bettering last year's 8-12 dual meet mark, the Irish head east this weekend for a showdown with Navy and Yale in New Haven, Conn., on Saturday afternoon at 1 p.m. 
''Navy probably will be the stronger of the two teams," explamed Sepeta. ''They have been ranked before, and they have a highly-disciplined, well­trained program. 
''But Yale has been known to rise to the occasion and has beaten Navy a few times, so it should be a tough triangular meet. We'll have as much competition as we want, if not more so." 
Yet, hopes are running hi8h. ''The team is really exctted about this week's meet, and I hope that they'II wrestle as keyed up as they feeL'' 

ND-SMC hoopsters to battle 
Tonight the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women's basket­ball reams will clash for the first time this year. Tip-off time for the classic will be 7:30 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. 

·--------------------------------------------------------------~------------------~ 





