Danehy vs. Notre Dame -page 6 

Vol. XIII, No. 114 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, APRIL 9, 1979 
Thornburgh m.ay lift evacuation advisory 
HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) · At the plant, chemicals were Gov. Dick Thornburgh's adviso­added to wast water contamin­ry that pre-school children and ated with radioactive iodine, eregnant women stay outside a the last source of low-level five-mile radius of the damaged radiation coming from an auxil­Three Mile Island nuclear reac­iary building. tor may be lifted today, the "It sort of traps the iodine in governor's spokesman said. the water," said Jim Hanchett, 
Thornburgh decided yester­spokesman for the Nuclear day to continue the advisory for Regulatory Commission. at least another day after The iodine can then be meeting for about an hour and a filtered and disposed of through half with Joseph Hendrie, normal operaung procedures, chairman of the Nuclear Regu­Hanchett said. 
latory Commission, and NRC He reported a slight increase operations chief Harold Dent­
(continued on page 9]

ton. 
"He's hopeful he'll be able to announce it sometime today," 
said Thornburgh's press secre­David Frost 
tary, Paul Critchlow. • 
Thornburgh issued his direc­entertatns tive on March 30 after several leaks of radiation from the 
local crowd 
nuclear power plant. 
Critchlow said the decision to by Mike Shields lift the advisory ''will be based News Editor on the fact that they (NRC offi­cials) believe they can continue Interviewer, lecturer, author the cleanup without further sig­and producer David Frost nificant escapes of radio­entertained a receptive crowd activity.'' of 200 at IUSB' s Northside Hall 
Auditorium last night withEarlier yesterday, sign­anecdotes about the luminariescarrying demonstrators conduc­he has known, snappy one-lineted "last rites for Three Mile jokes, constant name-dropping, Island" on the capitol steps and sharp criticisms of subjects here, saying it is time to bury ranging from television to poli­the damaged plant. 
tics.
Eleven miles away, engin­Frost related recollections of eers continued the tedious task his most memorable interviews, of bringing the damaged reac­including those with Ian Smith, tor to a cold shutdown, a job Robert Kennedy, Moshethat authorities say could take at Dayan, Noel Coward,least five more days. 
Muhammud Ali and Richard 
''The eyes of the world are on Nixon. Harrisburg. We have come Calling politics the art of here to conduct the last rites for "the bland leading the bland," Three Mile Island," said Frost launched into a vigorous William Vastine, coordinator of attack on the lack of candor in Three Mile Alert. the language of politicians. He 
The anti-nuclear group lambasted Ian Smith for being fought Metropolitan Edison's ''incredibly elusive in factual building of the atomic plant areas, able to make up facts on eight years ago and at one time the spur of the moment.'' its membership had fallen to Frost commented that he has 
15. But the protesters stood had major difficulties in past 1 ,000 strong yesterday. interviews to get politicians to 
"We will not pay for Met say anything worthwhile. Most Ed's fission folly,' said Vastine politicians, he said, will only go as men, women and children -on record to "oppose road their ranks swelled by some accidents and litter." who traveled from as far away Frost, a two-time winner of as Germany · cheered lustily. Emmy Awards for hosting 
The company is paying $1.1 "The David Frost Show," also million per day to buy elec­criticized the inanity of some tricity needed to replace power television programs and com­lost in the accident, but the bill mercials, and defined television has not yet been passed on to as "the instrument by which consumers. Utility officials say you are entertained in your a 3 5 percent rate increase also living room by people you may be needed to pay for the wouldn't have in your house." cleanup. Frost related some of his ''all 
The crowd braved chilly tem­too rare inspiring interviews'' peratures to listen to protest with such notables as Robert songs and 15 speakers express Kennedy and Moshe Dayan. 

DETROIT (AP) -A shortage of vital parts normally supplied by truck threatens to choke the auto industry as a Teamsters trucking lockout and strike enters its second week. 
As the Labor Department kept watch over the strike's effects, it was estimated yesterday that 200,000 auto workers . or a quarter of the hourly work force -would be la1d off this week. Elsewhere, the impact has been slight. 
The industry · the five major U.S. manufac· turers. already had laid off 56,275 workers last Friday and had 74,200 on short-hour shifts. 
Today, Chrysler Corporation, the No. 3 national automaker, will be virtually shut down. The company said last week that 85,000 workers would be laid off at about 40 plants until a settlement between the trucking industry and 
the  Teamsters  industry  and  the  Teamsters  
union was reached.  
It  "couldn't have  come  at  a  worse  time"  

Chrysler president Lee A. lacocca said at a luncheon last week launching the automaker's new advertising campaign and extended warran­ty plan. 
Iococca said the shutdown cuased by the strike would cost the automaker "plenty." Chrysler is trying to recover from a $205 million loss last year. 
Bar~aining is scheduled to resume today in Washmgton between officials representing 500 major trucking firms and 235,000 Teamsters. Two day_!> of apparently fruitless negotiations broke off Friday. Both sides, divided largely over President Carter's anti-inflation wage 
In Fisher Hall 
guidelines, said they would not budge from bargaining positions that prompted the work stoppage. 
Automakers depend on day-to-day shipments of supplies and parts for vehicle assembly plants do not have room to hold large steel inventories. 
Companywide layoffs at General Motors Corp., the No. 1 automaker, totaled 30,100 last Friday. 
Ford Motor Co., aftet announcing the layoff of 650 workers at the end of last week, said another 3,000 employees at an Indianapolis steering gear plant would be furloughed today. 
The only American ,Plant of Volkswagen Manufacturing Corporauon at Westmoreland, PA, idled 4,000 workers when it shut down last week. 
Workers at American Motors Corporation plants worked regular hours last week. Automobiles and related products account for one-sixth of the nation's gross national product. 
At the end of last week, there were no reported shortages of food or other key consumer soods and most industries reported that operauon were near normal. 
The union struck 7 3 major trucking firms March 31, when the old contract expired, and the industry responded by locking out workers. Industry bargainers s~ their last offer would boost wages and benefits 30 percent over three years, just over Carter's guidelines. 
The wage guideline technically puts a 7 percent ceiling on annual wage and fringe: benefit mcreases, but it has been loosened to accommo­date a higher Teamsters settlement. 
outrage and fear in the after­math of the worst accident in the nation's 22-year-old com­mercial nuclear program. 
Handmade si~ns read "Drop Dead, Met Ed,' "No Nukes Is Good Nukes," "The Monster Is Crippled . . . Shoot It''. and "TMI, Rotten T.o The Core." One young man wore a gas mask and carried a banner saying ''In Case Of Accident, Kiss Your Children Goodbye." 
Frost said he admired Kennedy's simplicity and directness, and praised Dayan's caustic wit. 
Frost said his most memor­able interview was with Christie Brown, an Irishman born com­pletely paralyzed and consider­ed a "vegetable" until the age of five. Frost interviewed Brown after the man learned to 
[continued on page 9] 

Small blaze destroys utility cart 
by John McGrath smoke to fill the hallways enclosed area,'' Bro. ] oe Senior StaffReporter forcing residents to flee the McTaggart, assistant rector of affected area. Fisher, said. "It could have 
A fire swept through the The blaze was contained been much worse because the contents of a maid's utility cart within the room which serves as electrical sup~ly was right there yesterday morning in a service a utility area for the floor, and near the fire. ' room on the fourth floor of which houses an elevator en­According to officials at the Fisher Hall. The blaze des­trance and electrical fuseboxes. 
[continued on page 8]

troyed the cart causing heavy "Thank God it wasn't in an 
News in brief 
Tentative agreement ends 
briefwalkout at Pan Am 
WASHINGTON (AP) • Negotiations for Pan American World Airways and its flight attendants' union reached a tentative labor agreement yesterday, ending a brief walkout that disrupted some flights in Eur~pe. airline officials said. Pickets were reported at a handful of airports in the United States after the two sides failed to reach an agreement by a midnight Saturday deadline set by the Independent Union of Flight Attendants. The new pact was reached after a series of marathon bargainin~ sessions that began last week under the auspices of the Nanonal Mediation Board. "We're very pleased with it (the agreement)," said Richard Drake, the union's national strike Clirector. "It's a good contract." The teams of the proposed contract were not disclosed. 
Garwood comes home after 13 years away in Vietnam 
ADAMS, Ind. (AP) • Marine Pfc. Robert R. Garwood came home at last after more than 13 years in Vietnam and joyously declared yesterday, ''You can take the country from the boy, but you can· t take the country out of the boy." Garwood, 33, relaxed with family and frtends away from the public glare aimed at him since he left Vietnam last month. He said he wants to go fishing, drink a few beers, and rediscover the down-home lifestyle of his native, rural southeastern Indiana. ''The roads are still there. People are still the same," Garwood said. "I was glad my hometown hasn't changed. There's no place like home." 
Tanzanian forces fire on approaches to Kampala 
NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) · Tanzanian force~ pounded the southern approaches to Kampala with heavy artillery fire after apparently being stopped by unexpected resistance from fresh Ugandan troops, according to exile sources and residents of the Ugandan capital. Travelers arriving from northeastern UganCla reported, meanwhile, that President Idi Amin' s soldiers were rounding up members of two Christian tribes that have been persecuted repeatedly in the past for alleged disloyalty to the Moslem Ugandan strongman. Their fate was unknown. Amin's harsh eight-year rule seemed in its final hours Saturday when the last of an estimated 2,600 Libyan troops defending him were re_{>orted to have fled toward an air base in the north, evidently to fly back to Libya. 
Train derails; tank cars filled with acetone explode 
CRESTVIEW, Fla. (AP) • Tank cars carrying acetone exploded and burned when a train loaded with hazardous chemicals derailed here yesterday, and thousands were evacuated as the wind spread thick yellow sulfur fumes over rural northwest Florida. Only one injury was reponed. A fisherman trekking through the woods near the wreck inhaled some of the fumes and was hospitalized for observation. Okaloosa County Civil Defense director Tom Nichols estimated that 5,000 people had fled homes or campsites in the 30-square-mile evacuation area. Civil defense officials put the approximately 9,000 residents of nearby Crestview on alert for possible evacuation as approaching thunderstorms threatened a wind-shift that would push the fumes in that direction. 
Weather 

A ;o percent chance of showers this morning, becoming mostly cloudy and cool in the afternoon. Highs today around 
40. Clear and cold tonight with lows· in the upper 20s. Sunny and a bit warmer a:omorrow with highs in· the mid to upper 40s. 

5:30 pro--MEETING, french dub, FACUL1Y DINING ROOM, SOUTII DINING HALL 
6:30 pro--LECTURE, "labor law and employment discrimin­ation," attorney sharon wildy, room 161 LEMANS HAll, sponsored by smc law society 
1 pm--PANEL DISCUSSION, "business careers for non­business majors,'' sponsored by career development center at smc, CARROLL HALL-SMC 
7, 9, 11 pm--FILM, "annie hall," ENGR. AUD. 
Monday, April 9, 1979 -page 2 
Illinois police seek murderer 
PAXTON, Ill. (AP) -Author· 
ities kept up a minimal search 
yesterday for an armed and 
wounded man who escaped a 
gun battle in which two of his 
brothers and two police officers 
were among five persons kill~d. 
Some 20 police trekked and drove through farmland while daylight remained in east­central Illinois looking for Monroe Lampkin, sought on a murder warrant. 
The gunfight occurred Satur­day night after a state trooper stopped four vehicles on south­bound Interstate 57 for alleged speeding violations. 
Police, who discovered a two-mile trail of blood leading generally east-southeast through farmland from the scene of the gun battle, said Lampkin allegedly killed State Trooper Michael McCarter, 32, with a high-powered rifle. 
Also killed were Paxton patrolman William Caisse, 32; McCarter's brotlier-in-law, Donald Vice,43, who was riding with McCarter; and Lampkin's brothers. Cleveland, 46, of Harvey,IL.,and Davis, 32. 
Cleveland and Davis Lampkin rej>Ortedly were free on appeal of a federal conviction of possessing firearms after con­viction of a felony. Illinois State Police Investigator Clay Boyer, who is heading the investi· gation, said Cleveland Lampkin had a record of felony con· victions but that there were no outstanding warrants against any of the brothers. 
He also said three . 3 57 magnum pistols had been discovered at the scene, two in a pickup truck and one ina Ford Thunderbird that were among four autos McCarter hailed to the roadside. 
Illinois state police said they found both spent and unused .38-caliber cartridges just off the freeway, but found no .38-caliber weapon at the scene, leading them to believe Monroe Lampkin is armed. 
Ginter said more than 30 shots were tired Saturday night after McCarter and Caisse stopped four speeding vehicles on Inter­state 57 about two miles south of Paxton. There reportedly were numerous bullet holes in the trooper's squad car. 
Paxton police officer Larry Hale, 27, of Paxton, was wounded and listed in stable condition after undergoing surgery yesterday to remove a bul.let from his right leg at Burnham City Hospital in Champaign. Ginter said Hale apparently mortally wounded Cleveland and Davis Lampkin. 
Struble said both Caisse and McCarter were shot and killed at close range. McCarter had been wounded in the leg and was in Caisse's squad car when a door on the passenger side was opened and he was shot, Struble said. McCarter and Hale fired their service revolvers, Ginter said, but Caisse's gun nr·.er was used. 

Vice,  43,  who  for  some  
unexplained reason  had  been  
riding  with  McCarter  was  

found on the ground n~ar his brother-in-law's car. 
{continued on page 5 
r-The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Sherry Mummert Asst. Night Editor: Lynn Tyler 
Copy Editors: Debbi'e Dal.Jrling, John Ferroli Editorial Layout: Rod Beard Features Layout: Melanie Budd Sports Layout: Paul Barry Mullaney TyP,ists: Kim Convey, Beth Wil/a.rd, Bi'/1 Swift, Katie Brehl Early Morning Typist: Kim Convey Day Editor: Kate Kilkuskie · Ad Layout: Chris Slatt, Joe Murphy, Bob Rudy Photographer: Milee Bigley 
The Observer {USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday ex· cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. s·ubscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year [$10 per semester) from The Observer. P.O. box 
Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, In· diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of 'the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

LITURGIES OF HOLY WEEK 
~all 
camp_us
miniStry 

Sacred Heart Church 
WEDNESDAY 
7:15> PM Tenebrae 

HOLY THURSDAY 
9:00 AM Morning Prayer 5:00PM Evening Mass of the Lord's Supper 
1979 

' ..... ~ ........ ~­
Notre Dame Residence Halls 
4:30 PM Sorin 
5:00 PM Dillon 7:00PM Morrissey 7:30PM Keenan-Stanford 
8:00 PM Planner 
GOOD FRIDAY ===t============l 
3:00PM Grace9:00 AM Morning Prayer 
3:15PM Keenan-Stanford Lord's Passion 
3:00 PM Celebration of the 7:00PM Morrissey 
HOLY SATURDAY==~============~ 
10:00 PM Keenan-Stanford9:00 AM Morning Prayer 11:00 PM Dillon11:00 PM The Paschal Vigil 
EASIER SUNDAY ==F=========tt 
9:15AM 9:45AM Fisher 
10:30 AM Solemn Liturgy of 10:30 AM St. Edwards Easter Morning 10:30 PM Zahm 
12:15 PM 

7:15PM Vespers 10:30 PM St. Edwards 
10:30 PM Grace 
11:00 PM Dillon 
I 

·~==========================================~' 
r----------""!"'-------------.----------~---------------~~ ~---~---­
The Observer Monday, April9, 1979-page 3 
Danehycase against Notre Drune~ comes to trial in Starke County 

b'V Michael Lewis Executive News Editor 
The case of Professor James 
P. Danehy versus Notre Dame came to trial at 10 a.m. today in the Starke County Circuit Court in Knox, IN. 
Danehy originally filed suit Feb. 28, 1977, in St. Joseph County SuJ?erior Court. Accord­ing to Untversity regulations, he would automatically become Professor Emeritus at age 65. He reached 65 in June of that year. 
Danehy has alleged that the University has " ... no rational retirement standards fairly ap­
plied to all faculty members.'' He further maintains that a significant number of faculty members are allowed to con-
Strike delays SU albums 
by Brian McFeeters 

The remaining 900 albums from the Student Union record sale await delivery because of the nationwide trucking indus­try strike, according to SU Services Commissioner Curt Hench. The backorder was scheduled to be shipped from Indianapolis on the day the strike began. 
"If the strike is continuing after Easter break, we'll tell the wholesaler to pack an identical order and then bring it up here ourselves," Hench said. If this is necessary, the albums will be distributed during the week of April 23-27. 
[continued on page 8) 

tinue in full-time positions after reaching age 65. 
Notre Dame contends that their policy, at that time, was that allfrofessors automatically reache Emeritus status at age 
65. University policy further stipulates that, after reaching Emeritus status, the profes­sor's position as a tenured faculty member would be re­evaluated on a yearly basis. 
Danehy was allowed to teach a summer school course in 1977, but was dropped from the University payroll in Aug1.1st 1977. He still occupies office and laboratory space in the chemistry buildin~. He was a professor of chemistry here for 
In March 1977, Danehy was granted a change of venue to the Starke County Circuit Court. 
Despostions from the Chem­istry Department's Committee on Appointments and Promo­tions state that the decision to terminate Danehy's employ­ment was based solely on his age. 
In pre-trial hearings, the University has agreed that Danehy's age was the sole factor m the decision to termin­ate his employment. 
Danehy decided to file suit after his personal attempts to gain continuation of his position at the University were unsuc­
'· ·-mich·ael\&co. 
~Hair ;Concepts 
'Hair designs for Men & Women, with the emphasis on Easy Care' open late tues.-thuta. 8pm North, ¥1 mile east of notre dam• 18381 Edison at lnd 23 272-7222 ·South -2041 E~lreland at Ironwood master charge visa 291-1001 
26 years. cessful. 

Going to the SENIO~ FORMAL? ORDER YOUR TUXEDOS LaFor1une Center, Rm 2-D, 2nd floor. oH the ballroom Tuesday April 1Oth and Wednesday April 11th 1 0 AM to 9 PM BUNNY FORMAL WEAR (Men's Tux Shop) 
/;'­

They will fit and deliver all tuxs on campus All NOTRE DAME students receive a DISCOUNT ! 
This year go for formal and rent a tuxedo I 



"LARRY NORMAN IS PROBABLY THE MOST IMPORTANT SONGWRITER SINCE PAUL SIMON." 
TICKETS·

·BILLBOARD MAGAZINE "THE TOP SOLO ARTIST IN HIS FIELD." ·TIME MAGAZINE 
• 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 

• 
RIVER CITY RECORDS 


"CHRISTIAN ROCK MUSIC'S MOST INTELLIGENT WRITER AND GREATEST ASSET." .·THE NEW YORK TIMES 
• 

The Observer Monday, April9, 1979-page 4 
An Tostal comn1ittee readies final schedule 
by Beth Willard 
An Tostal is drawing near, final schedules of events are being readied and prayers for good weather are risin~, according to An Tostal chatr­man Paul Callahan. 
Booklets with a complete schedule and description of events occurring during An Tostal week, April 24-29, will be distributed on Sunday, April 22. 
Many of the events, such as the picnic on Gentle Thursday and Frisbee Toss on Frivolous Friday, call for good weather to be successful. Callahan stated that although the weather does not look promising at this point, events would either be moved indoors or conducted despite cold or rain. 
An Tostal was initiated in 1968 with a budget of $25. This year, its twelfth year, it has a. total budget of $15,000. Callahan said that $7,000 has been allotted by Notre Dame Student Government, $1,500 by Saint Mary's Student Govern­ment, and that all remaining funds are generated by An Tostal events such as the carnival, In Loco Parentis, and the Irish Wake. 

Work ~tatted last May on the festivities planned for this year, when Callahan was appomted chairman of the An Tostal committee. 
As in P.ast years, An Tostal events wtll be held on both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses, as well as off cam­pus. There will be a Beer Garden at Lee's Ribs on Tuesday, a Happy Hour at Nickie's on Wednesday, and on-campus events will start on Gentle Thursday. 
Events held on Thursday will be at Saint Mary's, those on Friday on Notre Dame's South Quad and at Stepan Center, and Saturday events will be located primarily at Cartier Field. Events running throughout 
the  week  include  In  Loco  
Parentis (Monday  through  
Thursday),  Looking  for  Mr.  

Goodbar, Bookstore Basketball, the carnival, and the Ugly Man on Campus contest. 
Bookstore Basketball finals always draw a crowd on Sunday, says Callhan, but bookstore basketball is not, in fact, run by the An Tostal committee itself. It is organ­ized by a committee headed by Leo Latz, under the same auspices as An Tostal, but separate from other events. 
Callahan encourages com­petition for the James E. Brogan Award. One hundred dollars will be presented to the personIorEanizationIdormi­tory that does the craziest thing in An Tostal spirit, outside ofan official event. Participants must inform Callahan of their event ahead of time so that observers will be present. 

Iranian revolutionaries kill six more men before firing squads 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) sent six more men to their Revolutionary authorities, deaths before firing squads rejecting U.S. and other yesterday, Tehran newspapers criticism of their execution of a reported. former Iranian prime minister, New violence flared in the 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCORPORATED 
SPRING SAVINGS 
Texas Instruments powerful business calculator with programmability 
THE mBATM 
• 
Advanced financial functions let you calcu 

internal rate of return (investment yield) for uo to 12 variable cash flows. 

• 
Preprogrammed functions let you solve financ problems easily, without tables: Number of periods. Interest rate percentage. Payment amount. Present value. Future value. 

• 
Mortgage loan functions make financial 


calculations easier-remaining balance, accumulated interest, principal/interest split. 
suggested retail $70.00 
•

our prtce $49.95 
Texas Instruments 
SUmlin~ 25~ 
scientlic calculator 


• Calculator Analysis fo.r Business and Finance book opens up new approaches to help make business and financial decisions in areas su as: Business Administration. Marketing. Real EstateMan;am~m,eni Accounting. Financial Planning and Analysis. Banking. Investments. Stocks and Bonds. And many more. 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE~­
suggested retail $32.95 our price $24.95 
• 
Perform the most-needed slide-rule functions. Roots. Powers. Reciprocals. Common and natural logarithms. Trigonometry-in degrees, radians, grads. 

• 
Powerful scientific functions give you quick access to roots, powers, logs and trigonometry. 

• 
Scientific notation with five-digit mantissa and two-digit exponent. 

• Features 52 functions to simplify scientific problem solving. Tems Instruments. 


advanced slide rule calculator with programrriobility 
Tl-55 

• 
Perform repetitive calculations and recall frequently used instruction sequences at the touch of a key with 32 prq.gramming steps. 

• 
Use the power of statistics. financial math, and programming in your field or pro!ession. 

• 
Pertorm forecasting, determine relationships between groups of data with built-in linear regression .and trend-line analysis programs. 


suggested retail $50.00 our price $39.95 
%· 
streets of Tehran in the after­
math of Saturday's execution of 
Amir Abbas Hoveida, who 
served as prime minister under 
the now-exiled shah for 13 
years. 
In the capital's eastern 
section, women ftred from a 
passing car at a group of militia 
guards of the Islamic revolu­
tionary government, wounding 
several of them, news repons 
said. The women were 
reponed to have escaped. 
In northern Tehran, five 
militiamen were killed and four 
others injured in an explosion 
late Saturday. The cause was 
not officially announced, but 
news repons speculated the 
militiamen were trying to 
defuse a bomb or hand grenade 
when it exploded. 
Yesterday's six executions 
took place before dawn in four 
cities, the newspapers said. 
Those executed included two 
pro-shah army men, three of 
the shah's policemen and a 
landlord who was charged with 
illegally seizing land and raping 
several women. 
State radio reports confirmed 
only that three of the executions 
had taken place. 
The official execution toll 
stands at 76 since revolutionary 
tribunals began their work after 
the Fyb ..... 12.. fall of . Shah 
Mohammad Reza Pahlavi's last 
government. They included 15 
military and police generals 
•who served the deposed monarch. 
Meanwhile, revolutionary officials said 26 prisoners were put on trial in Tehran, reportedly including Gen Amir Hossein Rabii, former chief of the air force, and Manuchehr Azmun, who served as Hoveida's labor minister. 

.Class of '80 
sponsors _ baseba!l trip 
Activities for next year's Senior Class will be getting under way this April. ·A trip to Chicago is scheduled to see the Cubs face the Montreal Expos on Saturday, April 21. 
Due to scheduling problems, only 50 seats will be available. Sign-up will be on a first-come, first-serve basis. The trip includes round-trip bus trans­portation (to .leave at 11 a.m.) 

with .beer and  a  ticket  to  the  
game for $10.  
All  those interested  should  

sign up at the Junior Class · office in the basement of LaFortune today and tomorrow 
. from 3-5 p.m. 
The ·class officers are also putting together the Advisory Counctl for next vear. All those interested in being members. should contact ·(1691), Mary {8037), or Tom (1768). 

-----------------~-~-·-~------~----~-----~
,.._____,_____,..._____________ 
The Observer 
WOW series stresses artists' struggle 
by Margie Brasstl Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Women's struggle for ex­pression in the arts became the theme of last week's series of presentations on Women and the Arts as part of Saint Mary's Women's Opportunity Week (WOW). 
WOW is presented annually to give students a chance to see what opportunities are open to them outside of college. The week's activities focused upon literature, music, art and theatre. 
The idea that it is more difficult for women to break into fields related to the arts was stressed in most of the presen­tations. Many of the speakers warned that a woman must work harder than a man to be considered good. •'A girl must be five times better than a male," Antonia Brico, one of the world's f~.rst woman conduc­tors, warned. 
Brico, who was the key-note speaker, was instrumental in opening the orchestra field to women. She began the New York Women's Symphony in 1934. 
Many myths have been built up about the woman that it rakes women themselves, with their own particular style of humor, to separate rhe truths from the fairy tales, according to Gloria Kaufman, professor at IUSB. Feminist humor became necessary to break down the taboo and extricate the truths, Kaufman said. 
''Comedy is the prevailer of truth," Kaufman emphasized. She read several selections from contemporary writers who have used this sryle effectively to stress their ideas. 
The arts were represented in both contemporary and ancient times in the works of Margo Hoff. Hoff, who showed slides of her work as a contemporary artist, spoke of the living artist as foreyer expanding and <level· 
opin~. 
Michele Fricke, SMC profes­sor of art, showed slides of women portrayed by ancient artists, emphasizing the honor and repect that was shown to women in the sculptures and paintings. Primitive cultures, mvolved in a constant struggle for existence, could not afford to place barriers on the roles women played in society. They 
• • . Police 
[continued from page 2] 
Boyer said $1,700 in cash was found on Cleveland Lampkin's body. 
Davis Lampkin was found dead on the ground near the pickup truck, the high-powered rifle lying next to him. Cleve· land Lampkin was found wounded inside McCarter's car and died later at the Champaign Hospital, police said. 
Also arrested at the scene was a fourth brother, Clyde Lampkin, 48, of Gary, IN., whom Ginter said was charged yesterday with unlawful possession of an automatic rifle and possessinjt a rifle without a proper identification card. 
State police patched together the probable sequence of events, although they said they still had not determined why the shooting began or who fired thf" first shots. 
were involved in law, govern­
ment, religion and most other 
aspects. 
The South Bend chapter of 
the Women's Caucus for Art 
also gave a representation of 
women in the field ofartists, art 
historians, museum and gallery 
women. 
Women in today's society were portrayed in a presenta­tion by SMC professors Penny Jameson, Deanna Sokolowski, and Carol Ann Carter. The presentation looked at the woman as wife, mother, and worker, and at her identity throughout ihe socialization process. 
Alon~ a similar vein, two dramatizations by Julie Jensen and Diana Hawfield from the Speech and Drama department emphasized women's loss of self-identity and the loneliness that is a part of ll'lan.y__vvomen's lives. They also spoke--..on women in the theatre, and the~ difficulty of being accepted that still faces modern women play· wrights. 
According to Julie Jones, co-chairman of WOW, "WOW was successful this year. Many of the students showed interest, and all the speakers were very enthusiastic about the presen­tations." 
While attendance was not high at many of the perform· ances, this could have been due to the afternoon scheduling, Jones said. 
Jones was disappointed with the lack of faculty encourage­ment to attend the afternoon performances, but thought that the smaller groups allowed for more informality in the discus· sions. 
Co-chairing the week with Jones was Dee Devlin. Cindy Cericola helped coordinate the talent, while Karen Mitchell and Maureen Carden helped with organization. 
Helen Gallagher, publicity chairman, commented that while scheduling-was difficult, "We didn't run into any big problems. People gained a lot of valuable experience from this week, and it was very success· ful." 
SMC Board apJX>ints commtsstoners 
by Pam Degnan StaffReporter 

The Commissioner Selection Committee of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance released last night the names of the recently appointed commission­ers. 
According to Chip Dornbach, vice president of Academic Affairs, the commissioner aP-­pointments were extremely dif­fucult due to an overwhelming turnout. "I feel these highly qualified leaders will work well together to make 1979-80 a year of growth for the college," Dornbach said. 
The newly appointed athletic commissioner Kari Meyer, a junior from Edwardsville, IL, will be responsible for coordin· ating and strengthening the sports program. 
Co-Ex Commissioner Mary Ellen Maccio is a sophbmore from Birmingham, MI. Her responsibilities will include meal ticket distribution and 
[continued on page 10] 

Monday, April 9, 1979-page 5 

Batman and Catwoman may seem like an oddcouple. But at the Beaux Arts ball, anything goes. · [photo by Mike Bigley] 
St. ffiaty's College Student Govetnment Speaket Setles Ptesents: 
John R. Powets 
Authot of The Last Catholic In Ametlca and Do Patent Leathet Shoes Reall,y R~flect Up? Tuesday AprlllO Little Theatte, moreau a:oo Pm FREE Admlaaion 
,i.~'ft:;:::>··,·' 
.. , .• t •• . 
·~·· ....~··'·· 
~.,!·~{~:}~ .·..: ·... 

... 
1.;,
..... . . ·..:.. 

·..·:·:.. ~~:·,. I:. ·~·. 
.. :, ·,::·· 
: 't~;, 
,, ·:.-. 

(Any morning, Monday through Friday 6:00a.m. to 11:00 a.m.) 
Nobody makes better breakfasts than Golden Bear and, nobody gives 
you more for your money. Nobody. 
1. EGGS 
Two Grade A, extra large eggs served with hash browns, buttered toast, and jelly. 
:2. FRENCH TOAST  3. WAFFLES  
Four half slices served with two strips of bacon or two porkies.  One waffle served with two strips of bacon or two porkies.  

(Offer ends April 30. 1979) 
4. PANCAKES 
Three pancakes served with two strips of bacon or two pork1es. 


o 52820 V.S. 31 North-South Bend o 6111 CrawfordviUe Road-South Bend 
o 921 Weat McKinley-Miabawab 
Editorials 
. . Rettrementpohcy 
discriminatory 
The two-year-old case of Prof. Jll(nes. Danehy v~. the University of Notre Dame came to tnal th1s mormng 1n the Circuit Court of Starke County, Indiana. Danehy, a former professor of chemistry at Notre Dame, has c_harge? that "compulsory retirement based on age alone 1s arbitrary, discriminatory and unjust,'' and that Notre Dame lacks '' ... rational retirement standards fairly applied to all faculty members." The Observer concurs with Danehy that the University's present retirement policy is arbitrary and discriminatory. 
According to University policy, a professor automatically becomes a professor emeritus at the age of 65. The employment status ofprofessors emeritus is reevaluated on a yearly basis. Thus, some professors are allowed to continue teaching, while others are forced into retirement. 
Danehy cites as evidence of discrimination the fact that of 81 faculty members who turned 65 between July, 1967 and July, 1976, 54 had their employment terminated, while 27 were allowed to continue in full-time employment for one to six years. Yet, in Danehy's case, the University has given age as the sole reason for termination of employment. 
The Administration cannot be allowed to continue arbitrarily applying its policy of "mandatory" retirement. We question whether this practice is merely a convenient method ofphasing out unwanted professors. If this were the case, the University would be acting illegally as well as unethically. 
The University needs a clear, rational retirement policy, applied equally and fairly to all faculty members. In our opmion, such a policy would be based not on age, but on evaluations by students and faculty peers. 
DOOIISBUBY 
WGe'fe«~· 
IrS 'P/(f)r/i.£5 ONPAI?ACJe," ANI? 70fJAY tue HAl-E WITH U5 ID71RNIN6 AIJJMNtJS f)R. A/..1 MAH/J/IY/, '74, ~y 
ON LEAI-E R?tJM 7H8 IRANIAN 
REVOI.UT/(}NA!zy 7R181JNAL! I 

AS A t.AY MCMBS?. OF 
7He ISI.AMIC m!E.f/NAL, 

I f/eRSONAUY HAJJ A HJINT) 
IN THe SI?NlENCING ANO t:X£CJJT1NG OP 60 t:NCMICS O,C 7Hc RCvtJLUTION! 

ALl, A5 A GRAf)(JAT~ STl//JENT, >01/7AIJ6HT A 5CMINAR ON ReV-71lllT5 
OWT!ONAJzy 7HEO!<t. Ri< 
81/TMR. SINCE, ITS 'GHT.. 8l£Nt:JtB)S,MJTtiUPS,/ 
tf!CU, y(J(J AL-8IfTFAIR! .wAYS tu&R& L ON/.Y 
A 70(J(jH FU/Nt<el) (i/?AfJCR. . 7He: 5AVAK 
\ AGEf"15­


Just before Christmas break the CLC voted unanimously to request all rectors to give preference to undergraduate Juniors applying for the position ofR.A. for the coming academ­ic year over the graduate stu­dents who also were applying for the R.A. positions. 
This action by the CLC is merely the latest !_ink in the chain which has bound all N.D. graduate students to a "second class" status on this campus. Having been both an under­graduate and graduate student here at N.D., I know from whence I speak. Only as an undergrad, I was really rather oblivious to the situation. Do you want other examples? A graduate student applying for the $1,000 per semester federal loan entitleCl: ''National Direct Student Loan" in the fmancial aid office, was told that under­graduates are given preference for this loan, and therefore there are no monies available for graduate students. 
Or take the funding of some of the graduate programs, in­cluding the law school. When the American Bar Association Accreditation Committee was here last year, they made certain suggestions as to how the law school could become a better law school. They sug­~ested that there be more books 10 the law library, and that more personnel be hired so that faculty members could have more time available to continue their research and publications. These are good recommenda­tions, only the law school needs money to do these things. But the funds generated by the various graduate programs and the law school are taken out of these programs by the univers­ity and put into a general fund, and then are used in other areas. How is it possible for these students to receive the excellent education that they are paying for?. So, not only is it more difficult for graduate stu­dents to Eet loans to attend school, if they do manage. somehow to scrape together the tuition, it can then easily be funnelled out of their program! 
Next, let's look at housing. 

There are beds on campus for 83% of the undergrad women, and 30% of graduate women . 
. For 5,129 undergrad men, they have 4,292 beds on cam­pus, for a high 82%. 
Compare this with 89 beds for 1,308 graduate men or a low 7%. 
The only dorm for graduate men is about as far from campus as you can get--St. Joseph's Hall, next to the coal yard. In fact, it's listed as an off-campus building. And, after seeing the above figures, would you believe that there have been, and continue to be, letters in The Observer from 
Monday, April9, 1979-page 6 
Notre Dame graduate students consideredsecond class citizens 
undergrads suggesting that the university even take St. Joseph's away from the gradu­ate men, leaving them then, with absolutely no housing at all! I've heard about wanting your·piece of the pie, but must they have it all? The above figures are ludicrous. Graduate students do more for this school than most people will ever know. Literally hundreds of thousands of dollars are given to this school as a direct and indirect result of work and on-going research by graduate students. Many courses on this campus just would not be taught w1thout the time and dedication of the graduate stu­dent ... and they are paid a fraction of what a professor would receive for teaching the same course. In fact, without the graduate programs at this university, it would no longer be a University, but rather a community college. 
. At the beginning of this year, 15 foreign graduate students who had never been to this country before, were denied housing on campus as there was none available to them. What an incredible state of affairs. The waiting list of · ~raduate men wanting to move tnto St. Joseph's is very long. The solution is obvious: build another grad dorm. But in the meantime, one of the under­grad dorms situated closer to the main portion of campus should be converted to a dorm for both grads and undergrads, if not for graduate students totally. Arizona State, Columbia, U.S.C., and U.C.L.A. to name but a few, have combination grad/under­grad dorms. Even if these suggestions were implemented, the ration of on-campus beds to students would be vastly in favor of undergrads, but at least it would be a start. But in the meantime, why should we, the graduate men. be the ones to have to suffer the most because of the housing short­age? Don't misunderstand, I realize that there are more undergrads than grads, about 4 to 1, i.e., 4 undergraduate men 
to every graduate man. I also agree completely that freshman undergrads should live on campus,So even though the undergrads outnumber the grads by 4 to 1, they should have more beds on campus than a 4 to 1 ratio. But would you believe the current ratio is 50 to 1? 
What is most distressing is that in the light of these figures the provost, Dr. O'Meara, said this past week in The Observer that it is a "probablility" that the next dorm will be for women. Editorial comment to the provost: What!!! Are you kidding?! ? You just can't be serious. Please reconsider. 
And why should we be fur­ther discnminated. against in the selection ofR:A. 's? In fact, I believe graduate students have a strong case as to why they should be favored in the selec­tion process. For one, if an undergrad doesn't get a posi­tion as an R.A., chances are good that he can remain on campus anyway. But the graduate student who has a sincere desire to be a part of the campus, to integrate himself into residence hall life and to contribute to on-campus life, can't stay on campus if he's not chosen. In fact, he has never even been on. Also I 
believe there is something to' be said for the maturity of a graduate student in handling various situations which might arise in a dorm. I don't mean to insinuate that a 20-year-old undergrad junior is immature, 
· but that there seems to be generally a direct relation be­tween the number of years one has spent on this earth, and the maturity one has. Also, grad­uate students, just by being graduate students, should be ~iven credit for being a fairly 10telligent species. 
At Notre Dame, no segment of the student body should be ~iven preference over any other 10 any aspect of campus life. 
john Claude 


administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board 
The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Features Editor ....... Chris Stewart represent the opin10n of a majority of Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson . Photo Editor ......... Doug Christian 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ...... K. Connelly 
1 he Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewis Business Manager ..... Steve Odland newspaper published by students of able to all members of the community, News Editor ............ Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan the Umversity of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News Editor .......... Mike Shields 
Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is Saint Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ......Bob Rudy necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Sports Editor . . ........Mark Perry Controller ........... John Tucker 
_The Observer_ 

• l 
Features 
Monday, Apdl9, 1979-page 7 
The Notre Drune Frunily 
Notre Dame students are told many times that we are here bein~ prepared for life. What exactly is thts life that we are being prepared for? Is there indeed life after Notre Dame? 
In order to answer these questions, I set out to find the typical Notre Dame graduate. After poring over pages and pages of alumni profiles, a name cau~ht my eye. I called him to arrange an interview, and drove to his subur­ban Chicago home, hoping to find a family that exemplifies everything Notre Dame stands for. As I heard the doorbell ring out the N.D. fightsong, I knew this must be the place. 
TH: Hi, I'm here for the Observer interview. You must be Mr. and Mrs. Dulac. Mr.: Yes, come on in. Leave your driver's license at the door. You can stay about 15 minutes. 
M 
TH: You've got a beautiful house. It's very well kept. Mrs.: Thank you. We've got a housekeeper who comes in during the week to pick up after us. TH: Does she do the laundry too? Mrs. Only for my husband and the boys. 
Mrs. How many youngsters do you have? 
Mr.: How many youngsters do you have? Mr.: Three boys and one girl. TH: That's a mce ratio. But wouldn't 
a. more balanced distribution be healthier? Mr.: A few years ago, we had no girls at all. As soon as we build another girl's bedroom though, we plan to have another duaghter, and when you consider the girls across the street who are over here all the time, the ratio's almost 50-50. ~: Those must be your childrens' ptctures on the wall. Mrs.: Yes, there's Lewis, Howard, B. Phillip, Carroll, and Grace. TH: But I thought you only had four children. What happened to the fifty? 
Mrs.: We'd threatened to kick die oldest one out of the house because there wasn't enough room. We were only kidding, but he took us seriously and moved out on his own. TH: Your children are very attractive. What are their interests? Mr.: During the week I make them stay in and study. On weekends, I let them go outside and play football. 
TH.: Do they get along wed to~ether? Mr.: The boys are always makmg fun of my daugher, but actually I think they're a little jealous because she does so well in school. They'd rather play with the rich girls from across the street. Except Howard. That boy worries me sometimes-doesn't like girls at all. TH.: Do they all do fairly well in school? Mr.: Yes. They're aft presidents of their classes, each one plays at least one varsity SJ?Ort, and the youngest one keeps getttng brighter every year. Excuse me. Lewis! Get back in the kitchen with that glass of milk. TH: What was the matter? Mr.: Nothing. We just don't want our children drinking in the hallways. 
TH: It seems the chance your marriage will end up in qivorce is well below the national average. Would you agree that your marriage is stable? Mr.: We don't horse around, if that's what you mean. My wife and I have gotten along fine, ever since she adjusted to my sleeping habits. TH: What do you mean? Mr.: Well, at first she didn't like the 
The Talking Head 
way I get out of bed at midnight (2 on weekends) and sleep in another room. She accepted it though, after I made it clear that my position on the matter wouldn't change. TH: You seem to be doing pretty well financially. Mr.: Some of my invc:stments in South Africa have paid off handsomely. 
th;  Exactly  how  much  are  those  
investments  worth?  
Mr.:  I'd rather not say.  

Mrs.: Can I get you something to drink? We have Budweiser, Bud­weiser, and Budweiser. TH: Don't you have any non-alcoholic alternatives? mrs.: We used to have Nestles Quik, but the kids won't let me buy it anymore. TH: Just one last question. Would you say that Notre Dame prepared you for life? Mr.: It taught me everything I know. TH: I figured as much. Well, thank you for your time. My 15 minutes are almost up, so I'd better get going. 
The DuLacs invited me to stay for dinner, but unfortunately I could not accept their offer .. .! didn't have my 
i.d. with me. 

Four graduates in pursuit of Christian ideals 
Far removed from their old campus, four members of the University of Notre Dame's class of 1978 are looking forward to the end of another school year. While advancing from the role of students to teachers and administra­tors, they also descended from the university to the elementary level. 
The four--Tom Basile, Jay Branden­berger, Ricky Flores and Joe Forman-­had lived together off-campus at Notre Dame. All were involved in different ministries, either in volunteer work or studer.t committees. This taste of community living and service to others led them to decide to devote at least a year to some project that reflected Christian ideals. 
With the assistance of the Univer­sity's Center for Pastoral and Social Mtistry, they explored possibilities in four cities. Thetr contact in Houstan, Father Ed Salazar, S.J ., stressed the educational needs o( undocumented Mexican. children. A recent Texas Supreme Court decision makes it difficult for these children to attend public school. The students agreed that education is a universal human right and that the Church, an institu­tii:m without boundaries, shoud be the first to stand up for human rights and administer to the needs of children, even those without proof of citizenship or documents showmg that they are in the country legally. 
"Houston was the biggest challenge 
with the greatest needs,"-t"ecalls Joe Forman. ''We talked to "Father Ed Sal~zar, a Jesuit priest in St. Joseph's pansh. He knew the educational 
MeXI.can
needs Of Undocumented children not allowed in public schools. 
Technically, they can go to school but there is a steep tuition of about $150 a month. So we decided to come here to open a school." 
In Houston they were joined by another volunteer, Rita Cheresnow­sky. On October 9 last year, Guada­~upe Aztlan elementary school opened 1~s doors to about 100 students aged stx and older. · 
"The school is an old building donated by one of the parishes " explains Ricky Flores. "It needed a l'ot of w~rk and ~leaning. We had no suppltes, nothmg. Over a period of a month we got desks, tables, metal cabinets, anything that could be slavaged. '' 
younger children. 

"I find my place in administration, mothering the children and teaching,'' says Rita. "Some children in school don't have mothers. In an unsettled 
· · h d h , h
sttuatton t ey nee a mot er s touc , the woman's touch. Fortunately, I 
know children and I understand educa­tion. • • 
Before starting to teach, the group decided that the first thing was to make the children feel welcome and loved. The next step would be to build up their self-esteem as individuals. 
"These children have had a really rough life,'' Tom Basile explains. "They are from Mexica, don't know our language and aren't documented. They can't communicate with the society so they are lost wherever they go. We knew from the beginning that the main thing was to teach them to develop dignity on their own, to realize that they are no different from other people, to have a sense of self-worth. 
Ra d M Bo 1 
ymon • Ye 
It is our goal to make them realize that they are humans, that they are d · d h hildt f
Geosde_rv,,mg an that t ey are c ren o 
Ricky Flores wrote a piece about the school and undocumented children, 
"The broken people."  All share his  
feeling·  
''Sometimes  when  I  am  teaching  

and looking around, I see the broken, jagged windows," s_ays Jay Brand~n­berger. "I am standmg there, wearmg my coat because of the cold, but I. fe~l everythin~ is alright because a chtld ts. reading hts or her first full sentence. That is why the school is here--for broken, undocumented people. We can't meet the needs of the several thousands of children who aren't allowed to go to public schools. We can only meet the needs of a hundred. Of those, five learned to read today.'' 
They worked with many handicaps,==============================
lacking finances, curriculum materials and bilingual help. Only Ricky speaks fluent Sfanish. They focus on funcitona skills, languages (Spanish and English), math and other required subjects. 
The addition of Rita to the small group was invaluable. She supplied the role model of a woman that was very important, especially for the 
Volunteer for a real world experience 

Guadalupe Aztlan Elementary is the first Catholic school for undocumented Mexican children in the Houston, Texas area. It is currently staffed by five VESS volunteers. VESS is a volunteer service agency working out of the Texas Catholic Conference in Austin, Texas. VESS means Volun­teers in Educational and Social Services, and it staffs schools, parishes, and social service agencies throughout the state of Texas. . 
VESS members work for a small salary, $80 a month plu~ $60 a month for food. They also are members of Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Texas. 
Without VESS and without other volunteers, Guadalupe Aztlan Elementary would not be a reality. They have given us much support, and we have shared the community that is VESS. 
teachers, bi-lingual and experienced (or someone who wants experience in teaching Mexican children En~!lir~ 
1 

Spanish and other skills.) 
Four of the five of us are May, . -~~ graduates of Notre Dame who sought to work in some kind of ministry in a school or parish environment. We contacted Msgr. Jack Egan on h to go about finding a place to do th<n, ..nd he recommended a number of cities and projects. Houston seemed to us to be the place that offered both the greatest needs and the biggest challenges. So we came here, and the school started in October 9th of last year. We are currently involved in recruiting volunteers and procuring funds for next year. We raise all of our funds through the Dioces· !or Galveston-Houston), religious < 1·s, 
We need more people for next year some local parishes, and .1e to helf teach and administrate at the concerned individuals, even the ,tre schoo . There are only five of us at the Dame Alumni Club of Houstou has school full time, and there are many been helping us! facets to the operation of the school It is our hope that some pe1 at 
that requires more people than we Notre Dame could see fit to join this have now. Most of all, we neecl project with us. 
-
_1.___ 

•
r
I The Observer Monday, April9, 1979-page 8 
l 
Any Juniors and Seniors-to-be, interested in positions as officers ot the 1979-80 Pre-Law Society 
@/}%&?)WffdW~//!/!4f/&/f.i¥Wih 
should pick-up application forms 1n Rm. 101 O'Shag. 
SMC students to attend m.ock UN conference in New-York 
by Pam Degnan StaffReporter 

Seven Saint Mary's students plan to participate in a col­legiate United Nations confer­ence this week in New York City. The conference allows 
Notre Dame Pictures Presents 
A SENIOR CLASS Production A SENIOR BAR Film 
"Annie Hall Night at Senior Ba~' Monday April 9 9 PM -1 AM 304 Drafts Mixed Drink Specials 
Rated (!) For FUN 


"Okay, who's the wise guy?" 
For"'~the real beer lover. 
students: to assimilate the com­plex operations of the United Nations and to explore various world problems. 
Craig Hartzer, a government professor will accompany the students as their faculty advi­sor. Hartzer views the UN project as a valuable opportun­Ity for students to appreciate the difficulties that arise in solving international crises. 
Hartzer explained that each delegate .was responsible for collecting research that later would be utilized in formulating committee strategies. 
II Saint Mary's has been as­signed to represent the govern­ment of Tanzania. The girls, using their individual back­ground studies, must try to solve Tanzania's overwheiming crises," Hartzer said. 
Assigned to a specific com­mittee, each delegate holds the responsibility of accurately rep­
resenting  the  views  of  each  
country.  A  daily  agenda  is  
presented  to  each  committee  

listing the day's activities. 
' I 
Accordins to Hartzer, the representatives were chosen on a voluntary basis and must pay for their traveling expenses. He added, ''This is the first time Saint Mary's has partici­pated in this program. Yet hopefully in the future, a cam­pus organization can allocate funds for student participation in a worthwhile project like this." 
• • • Blaze 
[continued from page 1] 
scene, the blaze, which was reported to the Notre Dame Fire Department at 11:10 a.m., was of suspicious origin. 
''There are reports of a commotion being made in the hallway this morning, and of some hooligans knocking on doors before the fire started," Metaggart commented shortly after the fire was extinguished. 
Some hall residents reported that they heard what sounded like a firecracker go off immedi­ately before the fire started. 
"I was awakened by the sound of several individuals trying to awaken another mem­ber of my section," said Ryan Ver Berkmoes, a resident of the "B" section of the Fisher fourth floor. ''This seemed to culminate when I heard a firecracker go off. I then heard screams, and the voice of Bro. Joe (McTag~ert) yelling, 'Try to put it out. " 
Another hall resident, Tim Tripp, reported that when he entered the room, flames were waist-high and smoke was pouring out of the area. 
"I have an idea who did it," said McTaggart, "and I'm con­vinced it was not someone from the hall who is responsible. I'm also sure that there was no malicious intent involved--it was just a silly, stupid trick that led to a very serious incident." 
Trivia Bowl approaches 
Trivia Bowl is coming!! All you trivia experts sign up with your hall An Tostal representa· tive to compete on your hall's team. All vou non-trivia ex­perts sign u~ to work on Trivia Bowl by callmg Ann ac 3735 or Don at 1578. 
• • • Strike 
[continued from page 3] 
Hench said that he is re­questins that students wait until this backorder is distrib­uted to apply for refunds on albums that were not available. 
Defective albums will be reordered during the week fol­lowing the distribution of the final albums. Any faulty records that were not turned in previously can be replaced at that time, and students receiv­ing albums from this last order will have a chance to assure their quality. 
There are no definite plans for a sale of this type next semester, but Student Union is examinins several possibilities, Hench sa.td. 

The Observer Monday, Apri19, 1979-page 9 
Applications for
• • . Frost 
(continued from page 1) 
talk at age 18. Brown ended ~e interview by singing an Insh folk song in perfect P.itch. The interviewer called it 'a moment of absolute, distilled magic." 
The most "chilling" inter­view of Frost's career was with the head of the Hider Youth in Germany in the 1930s, and who later was sentenced to 20 Jears in prison. Frost decrie the man's lack of conception of "the magnitude of the crimes Hider committed,'' and said that the man, when asked what he would like Hider to be remembered for in the future, replied, "the wonderful way in which he dealt with unemploy­ment in the 30s. '' 
In response to a question from the audience, Frost dis­cussed his interviews with ex­President Richard Nixon. He called the program "a forlorn battle on Nixon's part to re­dress the balance of history-­forlorn because Watergate will not soon be forgotten. He wanted to re-write history, to be remembered for China, Russia and SALT, not Watergate." 
Frost reiterated the fact that he had complete control over all aspects of the interviews, m­cluding control of question selection and tape editing. Nixon, Frost said, "stonewall­ed" the ftrst day of the inter­views, but would later volun­teer information. "It then became a problem of pushing him funher than he wanted to go,'' Frost remarked. 
The key to the interviews, according to Frost, was "to get NiXon absorbed in the conver­sation, and then he would reveal the real Richard Nixon.'' 
Frost switched the subject of his talk to his association with the Guiness Book of World Records, and described his fascination with the people who try to set new standards of human capabilities. 
He spoke of some of his favorite records in the book, including one that he owns for logging over one million miles between New York and London between 1969 and 1972. 
He mentioned the case ofRoy Johnston, who has been struck by lightning ftve times, a 
representing the interests of the off-campus students.'' Her other duties include being a voting member of both the Board of Commissioners and the Campus Life Council. 
Neville stated that her most immediate goals were the or­ganization of the off-campus council and the formulation of the by-laws for that council. Also, she plans to continue publishing the off-campus newspaper, Offthe Record, and continue the shuttle bus service for off-campus students. 
Neville is also concerned with the renovation of the newly­designated off-campus room m LaFortune. "The room will be 
(conli,uedfrom page 1) 
in radiation Saturday night when technicians bern siphon­ing gas from the pr1n1ary cool­inB system. Work resumed after the leak was plugged. 
The Harrisburg protest was one of several across the nation during the weekend. 
Ten thousand people jammed San Francisco's C1vic Center Plaza on Saturday to hear anti-nuclear pep talks from Ralph Nader and others op­posed to the openi,ng this month of the Diablo Canyon nuclear plant. 
Another 3,000 protesters fo­cused on nuclear weaponry at Groton CT during the chris­temng 'or :ne USS Ohio, the nation's ftrst submarine armed with the Trident nuclear war­head. 
There were protests in Seat­tle; Los Angdes; Phoenix; Bloomington, IN; Ithaca, NY; Brooksville, FL; and Lancaster, 
Neville becomes first OC commisioner 
by janet Rigaux great when it is comJ?,letely 
finished," Neville said. ' It will 
On April 1, junior Shannon serve as the communication Neville became the ftrst off­center for off-campus students. 
campus commissioner, replac­Right now we're having trouble ing John Fitzpatrick, who held getting students to use the the unofficial office of off­room, however.'' campus coordinator this year. Neville expects that more 
Accordin~ to Neville, her students will use the room after main functton will be head of its grand openin~ in May. ''The the off-campus council. "I see ceremony IS stillm the planning my most imponant job as stages right now,'' Neville ex­
plamed. "But it will be an official way to let off-campus students know that they have a meeting place on campus." 
Another of Neville's present objectives is a meal plan revi­sion. "If off-campus students want a different meal plan, such as a ten-meal plan, we will try to get that plan imple­mented if possible," Neville explained. . 
There are two types of off­campus students, accocding to Neville, and each has different needs. "There are those who moved off-campus after being 
[continued on page 101 

• • • Thornburgh 
PA. 
In Harrisburg, Renny Cush­man, a longshoreman from Seabrook, NH, who represents the anti-nuclear Clamshell Alli­ance, joined the protest. 
"Last week's accident really touched the hearts and nerves of a lot of people," he said. "It's going to show that a number of people are upset, angry and totally insulted that TMI can ever go on line again. It will be the beginnin~ of the shutdown for all nukes m Penn­sylvania and the nation.'' 
Among those in the crowd was Dr. Geoffrey Corson, chief surgeon at Harrisburg's Poly­clintc He>spital. 
''They say only two or three people will die of concer be­cause of what happened,'' said Corson, who said he was at­tending his ftrst protest ever. "If it were someone I loved, I wouldn't feel it was a fair ex­change.'' 
Brazilian woman who has given birth to 33 children, none by multiple births, and Mr. and Mrs. ] ay Barnardi, who have been married 82 years. 
' 'The fascination with these people is that, however ludi­crous their goal, they are still trying to be the best in the world at it,'' Frost said. 
Fall1979 Movie ~nsorship
·&W?&& ? t %f'kP@#)t!;&j#~ f& 
MUSI' be returned to the Student Union Office NO LATER 1HAN 4 PM Tuesday April 10. 
Reactor Managers Wanted 
A small number of trainee positions exist for college senlon with bachelon or graduate degree In Math, Physics, Chemistry or Englneerlng. Tnlnlng Includes one year of graduate level courses In thermodynamics, materials, reactor dynamics, core characteristics. plant systems and operations. 
Naval security requirements necessitate 
U.S. citizenship, BA/BS, and under Z& yean of age with Impressive academic credentials. 

Sign up for an Interview In tile Placement Office with the U.S. Navy on the 
11th and 12th of April 
~ Be reconciled 
week 6 of Lent with your world 
"If you have two loaves of bread, give one to the poor, sell the other ... and buy ''The worst sin to­hyacinths to feed wards our fellowyour soul.'' 
creatures is not to hate them but to be indifferent to them; that's the essence of inhu­manity." 
This is a get-beyond-Notre-Dame week. Pay special attention to social-service articles in the Observer. Put a real contribution in the Hunger Coalition container before entering the dining hall. 
Waste no food this week. 
1 

I£ you'r~ not involved in some volunteer service project, think J of this as a possibility for the rest of the semester~ Check with you Community Service Director on the hall council; see
I 

i if there is something you could do. 
't 

Watch the international news stories this week with special' attention; ask others about their opinion of the situation in Iran (don't seek argument, but the observations of others. ' 
Read Chapter 61 of Isaiah, in your Old Testament (and before 
sraning, ask the Lord to touch your hean, so He might speak His 
message to you through the prophet.) 

~~~----------~--------------------------------------------------------~-------~~~~-­
The Observer Monday, April 9, 1979 -page 10 
• • .. Cornn1issioners

[continued from page 9] 
shuttle service operations. 
Development Commissioner Adriana Trigiani will sit on the Development Committee of the Board of Regents. A sopho­more from Big Stone Gap, VA, Trigiani will also oversee all charity fund raising drives. 
The Election Commissioner Mary Mullaney and ] udicial Commissioner Martha Boyle will define rules and regula­tions concerning Student Gov­ernment operations. Both com­missioners, juniors from Grosse Point, MI, will be responsible for enforcing the campus judi­cial system. 
Off-Campus Commissioner Margaret Dimond is a junior from Detroit. Dimond will represent the views and ideas ofoff-campus and day students. Mary Angela Shannon, Public Relations commissioner , will deal closely with T.he Observer. A junior from Louisville, KY, Shannon is responsible for re­leasing all public announce­ments. 
Social Commissioner Mary Ellen Connelly, a junior from West Springs, IL, will coordin­
[continued from page 12] 
128 teams that registered play in 64 qualifying games on Tuesday and Wednesday, April 17-18. "What we will do is place four preliminary brackets m each of the tournament's 16 sectionals,'' Marquard pointed out. "That will allow us to include 64 more teams with little scheduling 'conflicts." 
Marquard added that, what the increase really means is that there will be more games each night of first round com­petition and, when the first round actually gets under way on April 19, 64 teams will already have played one game. 
"The problems in scheduling a tournament like this are incredibly many,'' Latz admitted. "Since we have the 
Molarity 


"THE BEST" •••• -Kathleen Carroll 
NY Daily News IStuart Klein, WNEW-TV 

Shows 2:15-4:40-7:05-9:30 Nine Academy Award Nominations No passes 
THE DEER HUNTER 
Shows mon-fri 1:3o-8:00 Sat.-Sun. l:Jo-4:45-8:00 No Bargain Ma'j 
ate social activities for the academic year with various Notre Dame organizations. 
Spiritual Commissioner Mary Ryan, will develop the opera­tions of Campus Ministry. Ryan, a junior from Chicago, is planning to introduce late night masses on campus. 
Emphasizing hopes for a successful term next year, Stu­dent Body President Pia Trigi­ani said, "We have great hopes for a successful/ear due to the qualifications o the appointed commissioners. I am very encouraged and gratified to see that so many people want to take an active part in their Student Government.'' 
• • . Neville 
[continued from page 9] 
on-campus a couple of years, and so they want nothing to do with the University. Then there are transfer students who want to get involved with University events. So our job next year will be to try and take care of both of these types of off­campus students' needs." 
For the off-campus students who used to live on campus, Neville wants to improve secur­ity in student neighborhoods and strengthen neighbor rela­tions. Tra~sfer stu~ents will also receive improvements, along with help in gettin~ involved in University· activi­ties. Neville hopes to have an off-campus booth at Mardi Gras next year, as well as to get transfer students involved with An Tostal. She also is planning to have an off-campus formal. 
"Appointment of an off­campus commissioner is a big stepoy the University,'' Neville remarked. ''I realize much needs to be done. However, I'm looking forward to next year and hope it will be productive." 
• • . Latz 
320 teams, my staff and I will work through Easter figuring out who plays who, where and when.'' Latz announced that the schedules will be ready for distribution on Monday night A_(>ril 16 from 6 p.m. until midnight. He stressed that any team that does not pick up a schedule by that deadline will forfeit their bracket in the tournament. "I can't emphasize enough 
how important It is for the team captains to pick up their sched­ules by midnight, April 16," said Latz. "The first games start Tuesday and that means that 64 teams will play the day after they get their schedules." Schedules can be picked up 
quarters for this year's tourna­
ment. 
Latz cited the Easter Vaca­tion as a primary source of the scheduling committee's prob­lems. 
"I hate having to pass out schedules the night before the games are scheduled to get underway, but Easter vacation leaves me no choice," he said. "I just hope everyone gets their schedule and shows up for their first game on time. " 
Tennis team wins 
MILWAUKEE--Notre Dame's tennis team defeated Marquette, 8-1, on Sunday to mark its fourth straight win of 

in 104 Pangborn Hall, head-.,....the 1979 seaso~ 
========================= by Michael Mollinelli -

SCholastiC 
applications ~€ now se1nq acC€pt€b roR all 1979-80 €bltORial Bomb pos1t1ons 
(new· pos1t1on: smc €bltoR) 
~0~ ru~theR ~nr.o~matJOn, call Oave at 1684 o~ call the •o~~1ce at 7569 
OeaOl1ne ~o~ all appl1cat1ons: · ap~Jl 13 

The Irish, who won three out 
of four three-set matches, now 
are  8-6  on  the  year and will  
travel  to  Valparaiso  on  
Thursday.  

Need volunteers 
Notre Dame fencing coach Michael DeCicco is looking for volunteers to spend time with nearly 400 foretgn visitors this weekend. Those interested in donating some time to host participants of the 1979 ] unior World Fencing Cahmpionships can call the Ombudsman at 6283. The fencing tournament will take place from April 12-16 at the ACC. 

........._........_...............
. . 
: The Designers at : 
costmo's 
. . 
~ Rose, Connie, and Sally·( 
can be trusted 

. to design your hair to .i fit your personal need. i· 
·please call for an appt. · 
277-1875 .• 18461 st. rd .23
. 
• 
~·························· ..... 

I l 
'fhe Observer -Sports Monday, April9, 1979-page 11 
• • . Varsity 
Baseball Standings 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE EAST EAST w L Pet. 08 w L Pd. 08 
Baltimore 2 1 .667 New York 2 0 1.000 ­Boston 2 1 .667 St. Louis 2 0 1.000 ­Milwaukee 2 1 .667 Montreal 2 1 .007 lfz Cleveland 1 2 .333 1 Pittsburgh 1 2 .333 11fz 
New York 1 2 .333 1 0 2 .000 2
Cht,o

Detroit 0 1 .000 1 Phlla elphta 0 2 .000 2 Toronto 0 3 .000 2 WEST WEST 
Houston 3 0 1.000 Kansas City 3 0 1.000 Los Angeles 3 1 .750 jlflMinnesota 3 0 1.000 San Francisco 3 1 .750 1fl Texas 1 0 1.000 1 Cincinnati 1 3 .250 2Vr 
California 2 2 .500 1% San Diego 1 3 .250 2'/1Seattle 2 2 .500 11fz Atlanta 0 3 ..000 '3 Chicago 1 2 .333 2 Oakland 0 3 .000 3 Saturday's 0111111 
Pittsburgh 7, Montreal 6
SlturdiY'S Games 

New York 9, Chicago 4 St. Louts 3, Philadelphia 2Baltimore 6, Cthca~ 3 San Francisco 4, Cincinnati 2Milwaukee 4, New ork 3 Houston 6, Atlanta 0Cleveland 3, Boston 0 Los Angeles 5, San Diego 2Texas 8, Detroit 2 Minnesota 3, Oakland 1, 12 Innings 
Sundly's 0111111

Kansas Cl~ 7, Toronto 4 
California , Seattle 4 Montreal 5, Pittsburgh 4 NliW York at Chicago, PPD.• rain SUndly's 6111111 Cincinnati 7, San Francisco 6, 10 Innings Texas at Detroit, ppd., rain Philadelphia 3, St. Louis 2. suspended, rain, 51ft Innings
Chtca~ 5, Baltimore 1 New ork 2. Milwaukee 1 
Houston 2. Atlanta 0 Boston 7, Cleveland 6, 12 Innings 
Los Angeles 6, San Diego 5, 12 Innings Kansas City 8, Toronto 3 Minnesota 3, Oaklnad 1 
Monday'sgama California 7. Seattle 5 Montreal ~ee 1D-10) at New York ~alcone 2­Monday's 0111111 lnctnnatl ~Seaver 18-14) at Alanta ~Mahler 4-11 • (~.
Detroit (Wilcox 13-12) at Kansas City 
lttsburt (Can etarta 12-11) at Phlla­~ate 14-8), (n) delphia Ruthven 15-11) (n).aktand (Johnson 11-10) at Seattle Los Angeles (Welch 7-4) at Houston 
~anntster 3-9), (n) 
bRuhle 3-3), (n).
nty games scheduled. 
nly games scheduled. 
[contt'nued from page 12) 
with "eligibility of student athletes," reads as follows: 
0.1. 10. Outside basketball competition shall be conside~d ''organized'' Jj any of the followt'np condt'tions exist: Teams are reg~ttlarly formed or team rosters are predetemzmed, competition is scheduled and publicized in advance, official score is kept, individual or team standings are maintained, official timer or game officials are used, .rquad members are dressed in team umfomzs, admission is charged or a team is pn·vately or commercial/)• sponsored. 
Further, competition which is directly or indirectly spo11sored promoted or admin­istered by an individual, an organization or any other agency shall be considered organized. 
Obviously, the NCAA leaves themselves well-covered in defining "organized" competi­tion, which is considered illegal. All of which forced Latz, at the request of .Associate Athletic Director, Col. John Stevens, to submit an affidavit to Berst. Lau:' response, dated March 29, gave the tournament's historical backround and the concept by which Bookstore Basketball has grown into one of the most popular extra-curricular activities. 
In his response, Latz concluded that: 
Boots/ore Basketball in no way has the intention to circumvent any NCAA rulings. It is not intended to provide any extra basketball practice for the varsity athletes. It is solely intended for the fun and entertainment of the Notre Dame student body and the entire Notre Dame community. 
Furthermore, Bookstore Basketball is 
decide on a conference call this week whether or . not basketball players may take part. 
Walter J. Byers, Executive Director of the NCAA, along with associates Bill Flynn of Boston College and Jim Frank of Lincoln Unive-rsity, will hand down the final ruling. 
"It's clear that the Bookstore Tounament 
technically violates several of the wovisions set 
fonh by the NCAA," notes Latz. 'But I believe 
the tournament, in its true purpose and 
meaning, realistically does not erode what the 
NCAA rule intends to prevent, such as extra 
practices or ille,al tournament competition for 
varsity athletes. ' 

In essence, the NCAA rule allows varsity athletes to only participate in intercollegiate events and NCAA-sanctioned tournaments, such as summer leagues. 
•'The NCAA fears that although Notre Dame's intentions regarding Bookstore Basketball may be honest," said Latz, "other universities may use our tournament as a future loophole to circumvent NCAA rules. 
''There is vinually no chance of the varsity basketball players playing this year. Our only hope for future years is that the rule might be changed to allow such pure athletic competition among students." 
Whether or not the tournament will remain as popular without the varsity basketball play~rs is questionable. Football players are not affected by this ruling, so the "big name" will still be present. 
After yesterday's registration, however, there seems to be no doubt of the interest of the campus tournament. After the allotted 256 openings had been filled within two hours, Latz expanded the field to 320 teams. 
something that satisfies the desire for pure 
athletic competition at the University be­• After resigning tween Notre Dame students, among which 
basketball players are certain/v a part. If . • • Wddcats · Pryor ordered to work 
they truly are "student-athletes," they [continued from page 12)
should have the pn·viledge ofparticipating PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Na­two-year J?act, worked opening
in this student tournament. To forbid the nicked Stranski for a seventh-inning run on tional League umpire Paul day in Cmcinnati Wednesdayvarsity basketball players to participate in Jamieson's triple and designated httter Jim Pryor was ordered to return to and was behind the plate Friday 
this student event dun'ng ''An Tostal'' week Montagano's single. The Irish brou~ht the tying work Sunday by the Major when the Philadelphia Phillies would seem to be a rliscn'mination against run to the plate twice but Stranskt struck out League Umptres Association. met the St. Louis Cardinals on their status as a member of the student pinch-hitter Bill Myler and got Dave Barrish to Pryor had been one of two the road. 
body. ground out. major league umpires who had But Saturday, claiming the Weather permitting, Kelley sends his troops signed contracts to work in the pressure of working while his 
Berst, who informed Latz and Col. Stevens on 1979 season, along with Ameri­colleagues picketed outside the 
out today for a doubleheader vs. St. Mary's
Thursday that the odds are strongly against the can League rookie umpire Ted stadium was too much for him,athletes' participation, has submitted the neces­(Minn.) at Jake Kline Field. Admission is free Hendry. Pryor notified the National sary information to three individuals who will as the Irish hope to improve on their 3-6 log. Pryor, who had signed a League that he was resigning. 
Classifieds 
LOST: Friday night at Gutaepples-a gDDd llelrt-llllpad IDCket with 1n "S" e~raved an lt. Extreme sentimental
-va ue attaclled. If found, pl8111 call 'Nhy r:~ more? FLANNER RECORDS Suun 5427. lw at S .98 LP's for only $4.99. Flanner Records, 603 Flanner. phone 4256. 
Notices 
Hours: Monday-Thursday. 4:00-5:00? Lost: 'Nhoever played racketball last 6:30-8:00. Why spend more off campus Wed. night In the ACC from 6-9 pm In 
Court 1A. 1B. my Notre Dame Senior ring TYPING. IBM Selectric. Pickup ariil Is In your brown racket cover. Please delivery. 277-<1296. return: 6197 (days) or 7007. 
ATIENTION MAY GRADS 

All Ma~ Grads must repalrwthelr ' MORRIS EYLOANS~Thurs., 112, 
For Rent 
or they Will be turn over to tudent Accounts. Penalty will be charged. HIIUie fer rent, ...,. campn, 3111di'IOIII, Tjr~hOme. Fast. accurate, close by. $2110 per IIIDIItiL Calllll37. 
272-78116, NOW 272....,~. 

Clll after :30. Houae for rant this summer. Reasonable 
price, 4 bedrooms. Call 6637. Attention Frallmln: Those Interested In being on next r:-;·s Sophomore Advisory Have l.lr~e, furnished home tor rent, Council shou d send name. hall and available or summer and fall semesters. tel~ to Steve Btuemmer,1114 Gra Suttallle for five or six students, 1 block Hat, by Wednesday, Aprll11. east of Memorial Hospital. If Interested, 
call 23.2-4412. I'll blclll lt'a tnle, llld l'n milled yeulbut_.IQIIDIIII~tiiiiWyeu. Cll House for rent-summer and possibly 1M II Arlllllldo'a. uti lid =atlll next ~--4 bedroom, furnished-very lilly •· Kim Fnal, stylist. -8815. close o campus. 269-1718. 
Inexpensive rent this summer. Furnish­ed houses close to school.. 2n-3604.
Lost&Found 
Help! I lost my Heulett-Packard HP-33E. 
For Sale
Reward $$$. Call Andy at 272-7080. 
Found: 1 pair of sllver;tmmed glasses on the south quad. Call 1657 or stop by 200 Dillon. Need ride home? Buf a '69 Dodge
Coronet. p.s. ac. $375, ony 8842 Found: one calculator behind Keenan. Call 7901 to Identify. 
-USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun.
-· 

9-7. Ralph C=son, 1303 Buchanan 
Found: 2nd floor Cav. ladles ring. Road, Niles. -2888. Approx. slze21/2. Call Pat 1431. 
Wanted 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year round. 
Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc. All fields, $5110-$1200 monthly. Expanua paid. Slghtlellng. Free Info-Write: IJC, Box 52·14, Co111111 Oel Mer, CA 92625 
Need ride lOUth to Clllttl2: for Enter. Plene call Deb at 4-1 • 
S.O.S. Need ride to Conn. Can leave Tues., April 10. Call Pete 1603. 
Need ride to Phlily area for Easter break. Can leave Wed. p.m. Call 1001 or 4-1-4350 
Driving home to Fla. for Easter. tltld riders. Please call 1863 
Need ride to Long Island-NYC for Easter! Will share everything! Leave anytime. Scott 1861. 
Need riders 1111 for bl'llk. Gllftlo Ill Binghamton, New York, via Rlute . C1n drop you Iff along the way. Clll 6637. l.81¥1ng 1r011nd nou Tlllldly. 
Please help me get home to see my tong-lost famiW for Easter. They live near HARTFO D, CT and I am desperate for a ride home. Call 288-9049 
Going to Cleveland for Easter? Need riders? Can leave as early as Wed. afternoon. Call MIke at 3889. 
Need ride to Kansas City for Easter. Can leave Thurs.• April 12. Steve, 3506. 
WRITERS WANTED National PORSCHE sports car publica­tton seeks free-lance writers. Call (219) 288-9898. 
Need ride to Cleveland for Easter. John 1222. 
All classilied ads must be received by 5:00p.m.. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classilieds Monday through Friday. 10:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. All cla:.~ifieds must be pre·paid. either in person or through the mail. 
lelvlng for Evavllle April 12. Nllld Sue Knapp:rlden. Call Judy 7m. Have you read your car lately? The April Foot
Need ride to Miami of Ohio for break. Can leave Wed. at 5:00 PM or anytime Happy Birthday Sue after. Paul 8841. 
Pete 

Need ride to Washington, D.C.. or Lenny,anywhere on East Coast. Leave Wednes-Congrats on your job offer! You are da~ or later. Will share driving, S's, etc. living ~roof that disco Italians can get
Ca 18163 or 8165. jobs. ou 've got to love Indiana. Best wishes from your Roomy
Need someone to stal with elderly woman over Easter. . Call Kate, Today Is Beth LOthtefeld's birthday.233-4670 evenings. Wish her a happy 19th! 
Need ride to University of ViW,Inla at Attention SMC Class of '82: Don't ~t
Charlottesville. Can leave T ursday to vote for the UNFORGETIAB E noon. Tim 1251. FOUR--they're the FOUR for you!! Griffith, 0' Keefe, Metvtn, and Hasstau 
Griffith, O'Keefe, Malvin, Hasslau... 
Remember??
Personals 
11 fir the ella of '11-VIII Ecblbmp, Callan, Mltdlllt and Zldlr Cricket, Inside me wants out. Class of '80 Elizabeth For the good times 
Today and tomorrow Vote VanWassenholle and VIta for Holy Vote Belle, Bradley, Baldy &Bonte. Cross on April 11. 
Don K.• Today Is Karen Konarski's 21st Birthday. Happy birthday (belated). The person-Come celebrate with her at Goose's. Ask at on your birthday was supposed to have about "Honklng" read: 
On raur birthday Boston wants a PartyDear Cheryl, Rare arth says Clltbrltl Welcome to Notre Dame. The EJgles suggest a round of Tequila Love, Stmrtaa Your Best Friend But the classy Atlanta Rhythm Section wants a Champaign Jam Happy 20th Music Maniacs
Maryann, HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
Huge one.

How does It feet to be 13? 
Sorry I missed your birthday.
JM 
Ex-spldlferously. MlssP 

Wt can INikllt llafllllll fir rau-'12
Happy Birthday to my favorite Phllos­
opherl 

Vota Conlly, Hullllllltl, larll. Jllldlwlcz 
2 


by Mike Henry Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame -baseball 
team dropped an 8-5 decision to 
Northwestern Saturday in the 
opener of a scheduled double­
header at Jake Kline Field. The 
game was contested in bitterly 
frigid conditions, with a wind­
chtll factor of 18 degrees 
buffeting the players and those 
fans hardy enough to withstand 
the wintry weather. 
To the relief of all, the 
nightcap was scrapped to allow 
the respective nines to defrost 
in their ACC dressing quarters 
while the spectators scampered 
to their hot toddys. . 
The numbing cold, while 
hampering both squads, was 
probably the reason for Notre 
Dame's demise, as sloppy play 
afield led to three first mning 
tallies for the Wildcats, without 
benefit of a safety. After 
starter Bob Bartlett walked two 
batters on 3-2 pitches, an errant 
pickoff peg by catcher Dan 
Voellinger resulted in the first 
Northwestern run. 

Then, after a long run, Irish centerfielder Dan Szajko dropped Mike Ouska's fly ball to allow the second Wildcat runner to dent the plate. Ouska ·later scored on a throwing error by third baseman Mark ~tmendinger. Thus, by the nme everyone was at least inured to the cold, Notre Dame 
Tracksters crunch Sycamores 
by Mark Perry Sports Editor 

When the Notre Dame track team faced Indiana State in February, the Irish were slight­ly undermanned' because of· various injuries and illnesses, and the Sycamores came away with a narrow victory. At that rime Irish Head Coach Joe Piane said he thought Notre Dame should be able to beat rsu once they got healthy. 
It would appear that the Irish were very healthy on Saturday, 3S they cruised to a 116-44 wm over ISU at a dual meet held at Cartier Field. Notre Dame won 14 out of 19 events on their vray to victory. 
"It's hard to believe that this i ; the same team we lost to in February," said Piane. "Al­though none of our times were ~hat great because of the cold weather, we had a lot of good competitive efforts. 
''I thought Jacques Eady ran well for us, and our hurdlers ran extremely well." 
Eady, a freshman from Deer Park, N.Y., won two events for the Irish on the day, taking the 400-meter run in 49.8 seconds a~d ru!lning the third leg on the vtctonous 1600-meter relay team. Jim Christian, Chuck Aragon, and Rick Rogers joined Eady on that team. 
Christian, Aragon, and hurdler Arnie Gough were also 
Baseball tryouts 
Anyone interested in trying out for the Varsity Baseball team report to Jake Kline field at 4:00 p.m. on Wednesday April 11. ' double winners for the meet. Christian ran on the winning 400-meter relay team, along with Kris Hain~s, Ken Lynch, and Gough, takmg the event in '43.14 seconds. Gough notched his second win in the high h1.;1rdles, _pacing an Irish sweep wtth a nme of 14.3 seconds. Aragon led the. way in the 1500-meter run, winning in 4:02.9. 
Tim Twardzik took first in the 
other hurdling event, the 400­
meter intermediates, leading 
the Irish to a sweep of the event 
in 54.9 seconds. 
In the other running events Jay Miranda ran a 1:54.3 to wi~ the 800-meter run, Tony Matherly took the 5000-meters in 15:08.3, and Chris Lattig won the 3000-meter steeplechase in 9:15.1. 
A new addition to the Notre 
Dame track team highli~hted 
the field event · competition. 
Basketall star Kelly Tripucka, 
who set a school record in the 
javelin at Bloomfield (N.J.) 
High School, . . made his first appearance for the Irish track­seers. Although far from his personal best of 211 feet in the Javelin, Tripucka's throw of 160 feet was good enough to win that event on Sarurday. 
Also winning in the field events were Perry Stow, who won the pole vault at 15 feet, Keith Medinger, whose leap of 21 feet, five-and-a-half inches, took the long jump, Ahmad Kazimi, victorious in the triple jump with a leap of 46 feet, four .inches, and George Lang, who tossed the hammer 145 feet, eight inches, to lead the field in the hammer throw. 
The next meet for the Irish 
•
will be this Saturday, as they will be competin~ in the Arkansas State Invttational in Jonesboro. 
had dug themselves into a deep hole. 
Unfortunately, Notre Dame found themselves up against 6'3", 215-pound Scott Stranski, who entered the fray with an 
ERAof 1.38. Drafted by the Chicago Cubs last summer, the strong-armed righthander was overpowering at times, and able to rear back for something extra the few times the Irish threatened. He was able to keep Notre Dame batsmen off balance with his forkball, a recent addition to his repertoire. 
By the time Irish bats got untracked, the Wildcats had upped the margin to 6-0 on a t<;>wering three-run homer by_ nghtfielder Ken Brainin off freshman Brian Smith. That was the only lapse by the Syracuse, Ind., native who whiffed three batters in his three-inning stint, and coach Tom Kelly speaks glowingly of the youngster's future. 

Monday, Apri19, 1979-page 12 
Wildcats freeze Irish nine as weather numbs players 
Latz expands bookstore field 
by Frank LaGrotta Latz commented yesterday. He Sports Writer said that the increase was Because of the overwhelming prompted by the fact that the turnout at registration for this tournament's 256 spaces were year's Bookstore Basketball filled only 90 minutes after tournament, commissioner Leo yesterday's registration began. Latz has announced that the "We put the teams that were schedule has been expanded to too late on a waiting list," he allow 320 teams to participate. said, "but that reached 50 That total is 64 more than the teams in no time. I talked to 256 teams that were permitted Bill Marquard, the tourna­to enter last year and was ment's technical director, and labeled by Latz as "an effort to we devised a method of allow~ allow more srudents to partici­ing 64 more teams to play this 
pate.'' year." 
"Bookstore Basketball is a And that method, explained campus event and srudents that Marquard, is to have the last want to play should be able to,'' [continued on page 10) 
"Brian displays a great deal of confidence on the mound--he doesn't really act like a fresh­man out there," Kelly commented. Smith gave North­western batters fits as he alternated between over hand, three-quarters and sidearm deliveries. 
The Irish finally exploded off Stranski in the fifth. Second baseman Tommy Caruso led off with a single, and Ricky Pullano laced a hit into right field. Walks to Mike Jamieson and Simendinger (who drew three free passes) put Notre Dame on the scoreboard, and Dan Voellinger got around on a Stranskt fastball and sent it to the vicinity of the scoreboard beyond leftfield. A capricious gust kept the blow in the park and Voellinger ended up wit~ a three-run double that made it 6-4. 
That was as close as Notre Dame would get, although they [continued on page 11] 

Varsity cagers to miss tourney 
At just about this time every year depression runs rampant at Notre Dame. Spring break is over, finals grow nearer and nearer, and studies leave little time for anything else --except Bookstore Basketball, that is. 
But whether or not the hazardous tournament ~he ca!Ilpus' last gasp before do-or-die throat: mg, wtll be the same as in the past, remains a mystery. 
The N~tionaJ _Collegiate Athletic Association, after bemg nottfied by sources at Providence College that members of Notre Dame's varsity basketball squad participate in this event questioned the eligibility of the Irish cagers wh~ are involved--which is just about all of them. 
And Bookstore Commissioner Leo Latz after talking to NCAA officials at Shawnee Mission, Kansas, on Thursday of last week, didn't seem too optimistic about the athletes' eligibility. Although an official decision won't be made until tomorrow or Wednesday, Latz has reason to believe that this will mark the first time that the varsity members won't be able to participate in the Bookstore Tournament. 
Let's go back a couple of months and recap how the NCAA's involvement in this matter came about. 
Earlier this semester, Steve Lichtenfels a junior at Providence, aspired to begin a similar tourney at the Rhode Island school. A native of West Hartford, Conn., Lichtenfels was home­town friends with former Bookstore Commis­sioner Tim "Bone" Bourett, and had been exposed to the An Tostal tournament upon visits to South Bend. 
Lichtenfels, hoping to emulate the Notre Dame tourney, checked with former Friar cage coach and current Athletic Director Dave Gavm to see if Providence varsity members would be 

Paul 

Mullaney 
permitted to play. Gavitt, who will coach the 
U.S. Olympic squad in 1980 was more than happy with the idea. In fact, he saw the tournament as a means of creating interest in the basketball program on campus. All well and good, except ... 
Then, just to make matters clear, Gavitt phoned the NCAA to make sure that his athletes ~ould~'t be _doing anything illegal by panicipat­
mg. 10 thts all-for-fun tourney. And the Provtdence coach was quite surprised when his · varsity players were given a strong "no" to go ahead and play. 
Naturally, the caller from out East responded to the rune of, "Well, how come Notre Dame does it?" 
This triggered a plea of innocence from the NCAA B.,ard of Enforcement and its director David Berst. Berst, in a March 22 letter t~ Athletic Director Edward "Moose" Krause c!aimed that the NCAA knew nothing of th~ ~tght-~ear-old tournament, let alone the public­tty whtch Sports Illustrated accorded to it last May. 
Berst, in his letter, wrote that "such participation by members of the university's mtercollegiate ba~~etball team would be con­trary to the prov1s1ons of NCAA Constirution 3-9-(c)." 
That part of the NCAA manual, which deals 
[continued on page 11) 




