The 'Tree ' takes root -page 8
'
' ' 

VOL. XIII, No. 73 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, ANUARY 31, 1979 
Carroll Hall 'abolishes' parietals ; plans protest 
by Mark R/lsl Senior StaffReporter 
Carroll Hall residents, dissatis­fied with a cam~us atmosphere they say is partially caused by visitation restrictions, have voted to ..abolish" rarietals in a move that some hal presidents say has the potential to spread campus wide. 
The Carroll residents met Monday night to discuss their beefs against the social atmos­phere on campus, which they say ts • • downright unhealthy.'' They plan to collect support for a campus wide protest. 
The vote to "abolish" parietals, which the residents admit will not affect University policy, is "only the beginning," according to Mark Mocarski, a Carroll section leader and spon­sor of the Hall Council motion to "abolish" parietals. 
Under the leadership of Mocarski, the residents plan to wait for a show of solidarity from other halls in the form of similar votes to "abolish" parietals. Once they receive that show of support, according to Mocarski, they intend to organize and publicize a "parietals break night" that will "involve the whole campus." 
Mocarski said the resident in Carroll decided to "do something about it'' when it became clear to them that accepted avenues of change--recommendations from the Campus Life Council to the University administration--were closed. 

They pointed to Provost Timothy O'Meara's recent ref ee tion of a 0.C appeal that would place parietals in the jurisdiction of hall judicial boards as evidence that the avenues were "closed." 
Carroll Rector Bro. Frank Drury said that he learned of the hall council vote to "abolish" r,arietals the following day and 
'really couldn't get very excited about it." 
He said that tl-c-'-': is a "good purpose" to U· ~(.'\':rsity rules and re~ations, and that .thejr vote "ctoesn't change anything." 

Drury pointed to Eastern Michigan University, a school in Ypsilanti, MI, as evidence that having parietals "allows the stu· dents more freedom." 
"They had parietals in their hall and their roommates didn't have to worry about how they were artired or who came in their room after a certain hour,'' Drury stated. 
Drury said that he understood, based on conversations with of­ficials at Eastern Michigan, that students \'referred parietals over 24 hour vtsitation. 
The Carroll residents, how­ever, pointed to Memphis State as an example of what they considered an ideal compromise. ''At Memphis State each hall has its own visitation rules,'' Tim Coonan, a Carroll sophomore said. "Some have no restrictions and others have strict visitation hours. By giving them a choice, Memphis State shows their stu· dents that they consider them 
[continued on page 7 ] 

Skiing has been great but all this snow can really get you down. 


0-C students discuss problems 
by Dan Letcher StaffReporter 
A group of students inter­ested in off-campus problems met last night in LaFortune to discuss a list of goals including shuttle service expansion, security awareness programs and a proposed amendment to the Student Government consti· tution. 
Student Government Off. Campus Commissioner ~~John 
In Grace Hall meeting 

HPC discusses laundry, sports 
by Azleen Lavin StaffReporter 
The possibility of installing washers a~d dryers m Grace Hall was among the toptcs discussed at last night's HPC meeting in that hall. 
The HPC had previously voted to approve the men's laundry, but have decided to poll the dorms to see how many male students are interested in using the proposed washers and dryers. ­
The poll is being undertaken to answer concerns voiced by the University at the Monday nights HPC meettng. 
The University has expressed concerns that too many students would not be willing to hay laundry costs if given the alternative, which t .ey say would lead to the closin~ of St. Michael's Laundry and affect the uniomzed workers. 
Funds amounting to $1500 were reallocated to clubs and organizations who appealed for them last Sunday. $3500 still remain due to the lack of clubs applying for the excess funds. 
Dan Darfler, HPC representative to the board of commissioners, explained the poor response was a result of "lack of communication." 
The sailing club will receive aid from. the HPC's funds to help them recover from the fire last fall, if the club is unable to obtain help elsewhere. 
Paul Callahan, An Tostal chairman, announced the need for volunteers on the organizational committee. The meetings are· held every Sunday night in the Little Theater in LaFortune. 
This year the Jimmy Brogan Award, given to the dorm who does the craziest thing in the An Tostal spirit, will be a cash prize of $100, according to Callahan. Representatives from the men's dorms are needed to help organize this year's Mr. Campus contest, Callahan said. He also pointed out that women representatives are needed to coordinate Recess, a traditional An Tostal event. 
Because of the abundance of complaints by students, the snow in D-1 and D-2 will be removed this Saturday. All students must move their cars by 8 a.m. Saturday morning to parking lots, C-3, 4 and 5. 
Security has announced its willingness to help those students who are unable to move their cars because they are buried or need battery jumps. The cars will have to be returned to the parking lots in the afternon because of the scheduled basketball game Saturday evening, according to Security. 
The HPC set up a sports commission to establish guidelines for choosing all-star teams for footba11, basketball, soccer, hockey, and volleyball. 
Previously, football was the qnly sport for which an all-star team was chosen. The members of the new commission are Ed Durbin, Marty Paulson, Ellen Dorney, Carrie Seringer, and Jack Prendergast. 
Next week's meeting will be hosted by Holy Cross Hall. 
Fitzpatrick opened the meeting with a brief comment about the need for each member to con­centrate on a specific goal such as vacation storage or the publishing of a monthly news­letter. 
Phil Johnson, a sophomore, delivered a presentation con­cerning secunty and crime pre­vention. In his address he stated that, "the group's main concern is to ratse student's awareness in this area." 
In a discussion afterwards, Fitzpatrick commented on an article which appeared in Mon­day's Observer.. This article addressed the decrease in off­campus crime and Fitzpatrick felt, "that this article was mis-leading." He pointed out that the two most highly­populated student sections had the highest burglary rate in South Bend. 
Junior Shannon Neville then discussed the shuttle service and her hopes to expand the number of off-campus stops. "Ifwe come up with a schedule and show that there is a clemand, we could get another bus specifically for off-campus students," she added. 
Talk then turned to the possibility of amending the Student Government constitu· tion. This amendment would give off-campus students repre­sentation on the Board of Commissioners which, in turn, would give off-campus students some say in the allocation of funds. 
''This group is also hoping to see an off-campus council formed which would be simi­liar, but on a smaller scale, to the Hall President's Council," Fitzpatrick noted. This council could also serve as a link between the students and neighborhood groups. 

The group ts attempting to gain the supfort as well as tht" assistance o more off-campus students. Fitzpatrick feels that "the university will generally take care of on-campus stu· dents while it neglects the off-campus students." Such attitudes may change if the group can gain more recogni­tion. 
China desires peace, reunion with Taiwan 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Vice Premier Teng Hsiao-ping was reported yesterday to have declared that China wants a peaceful resolution of the Tai­wan issue, but "cannot commit herself not to resort'' to the use of force. 
The account ofTeng's remarks at a Senate luncheon came from a senator who took notes. Another senator, Thad Coch­ran, R-Miss., quoted the Chin­ese leader as saying: 'You can rely on our assurance that we don't intend to use force" and that "there has been no dts­cussion of boycou'' against Taiwan. 
The senator who made notes declined the use of his name. His. notes quoted Teng as saymg:
"We will permit the present system on Taiwan and way of life to remain unchanged. We will allow the local government of Taiwan to maintain people­to-people rdations with other people, like Japan -and the United Statt:s. 
[Continued on page 6] 

.. 

News in brief 
Khomeini to return to Iran as Americans leave 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -The government said yesterday that A vatullah Ruhollah Khomemi, the i]"chitect of the Iranian uprising, could return to Iran, and &ave Air France permission to fly him from his Parisian exde to an expected triumphant re-entry in his· homeland. The American Embassy meanwhile ordered U.S. government dependents out of Iran "at the earliest feasible date" after attacks on three Americans. Millions are expected to greet the 78-year-old Khomeini when he returns, possibly tomorrow to press his campaign to oust the constitutional monarchy headed by Prime Minister Shahfour Bakhtiar and set up an Islamic republic. Khomeini led the uprising that forced Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi to leave the: country for what many feel is permanent exile. 
Pope exhorts young to seek peace of Christ 
MEXICO CI1Y (AP)-Pope John Paul II urged all young people yesterday to forsake ''those ideolo&ies that lead to hate, violence and despair'' and seek joy, sereruty and peace in Christ. He then flew to Guadalajara, Mexico's second largest city. Thousands waved handkerchiefs in the Vatican's yellow and white colors and let fly hundreds of small balloons as the pope got off the jet at Guadalajara's airport. He was scheduled to meet with workers, cloistered nuns and seminarians before returning to the capital. Before departing Mexico City, "EI Papa'' told a large crowd gathered at a grammar school that ''the church sees an enormous renovating force in youth, which our predecessor Pope John XXIII considered a symbol of the church itself.'' 

State Commissioner saysstudents should invest loans 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)-The state Commissioner of Higher Education has suggested that college students should reap thousands oi dollars of profit by investing federal student loans rather than using them to pay for their education. In a copyrighted <:tory yesterdav. the Indiana Daily Student reported that Commissioner Richard P. Nugent said students who can manage to par college expenses without spending the loan money should mvest 1t and make more than $2,000 in interest during their four-year college careers. "If I had children in college, that's what I would do," he told an audience at a legislative semiaar in Indianapolis earlier this month. 
Marvin takes stand ­

philosophizes on love 
LOS ANGElES (AP)-Actu.r1..ee Marvin said yesterday that he never felt ''the ultimate in love'' toward Michelle Triola Marvin, his lover for six years and his opponent in a landmark propen:y rights suit. "There are all degrees of love on a scale," said Marvin, taking the stand for a third day. "There would be the young frivolous love,'' he said. ''The childlike love of a teddy bear, and as we go up the scale, I would imagine the ultimate in love would be between people -a deep regard for the other person, truthfulness, loyalty, fidelity and a tremendous sense of selflessness toward the other person.'' Marvin Mitchelson, Miss Marvin's attorney, asked the actor what kind of ''love were you referring to that you did not have for Michelle. '' ''The love I described toward the end,'' Marvin said. ''The loyalty, fidelity, truthfulness -that kind of love?" Mitchelson asked. "Yes," said Marvin. 


Weather 
Mostly cloudy and breezy with 30 percent chance of snow or snow flurries today. flighs in the upper teens to the lower 20s. Fair and cold tonight and tomorrow. Lows tonight 5-10 above. Highs tomorrow in the upper teens and. the lower 20s. 

12:15--LECTURE, "the liJ?osome, does it have a future?" dr. charles kulpa, spon. by rrucrobio dept, GALVIN AUD. 
4: 20--COLLOQUIUM ''particle production from nuclei,'' prof. a. bialas, fermilab & jagellonian u., krakow, poland, spon. by physics dept., 118 NIEUWLAND. 
6 pro--MEETING, college bowl competitors, 1st FLOOR LAFORTIJNE 
6:30--MEETING, sailing club, 204 O'SHAG. 
7:30 --HOCKEY nd vs. bowling green, A.C.C. 
8:15--RECITAL* becky stauffer-soprano, spon. by music dept., LIB. AUD. 
. \ 
SU social commtsston meets today 
There will be a general meeting for all past and _present members of the Student Union Social Commission today . at 7 p.m. in the Social Commission office. 
The purpose of this meeting will be to discuss events already planned for second semescer, and to solicit proposals for additional activities. 
Anyone wishin~ to work with the Commission m planning events this semester 1s welcome to attend. lf you are interested, but not able to attend the meeting, contact John Bonacci, social commissioner, at 3797. 
Obse1~ver 


welcomes subscribers 
The Observer wishes to welcome all its subscribers to the spring semester. We hope you enjoy reading our daily. To better serve you, the circulation department asks that you promptly notify our office ifa J>roblem arises in the delivery of your newspaper. 
Without your help we will be unable to take corrective actions. Therefore, please call us at (219)283-8106, or write: 
Circulation Dept. 
The Observer 
BoxQ 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Scholars needed for College Bowl 
There will be an informational meeting at 6 pm in the South Alcove of the ftrst floor LiF')r­tune for those interested in participating in College Br·wl competition. Intramural games will be held soon to select a team to compete in the regionals at Saint Mary's in March. All students are invited to attend. 
FThe Observer Night Tiditor: Margie Brassil Asst. Night Editor: Patsy Campbell . Layout Staff: Ann Mona­ghan, RodBeard and Scoop Sports Layout: Greg Sol­man, Frank LaGrotta Typists: Trish, Nancy, Betz and Katie Night Controller: Mardi Day Editor: Dan Letcher Copy Reader: Mark Rust and Mike Onufrac.k Ad Layout: Flo 0 'Connell and Matt DeSalvo Photographer: Cate Mag ennis  
The Observer !USPS 598 9201 is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year 1510 per semester] from The Observer. P.O. box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved .  

" 




---,-----------------------. 
Wednesday, January 31, 1979-page 2 
CI()A~ J>()INT LIVI Sti()WS 
PERFORMERS MUSICIANS TECHNICIANS 
Tech Interviews 1.00, Auditions 2:00 
ATHENS, OH-Mon., Jan. 29 Ohio University Baker Center 
COLUMBUS, OH -Tues., Jan. 30 Sheraton Motor Inn. North 
1-71/Rt.-161 
HIGHLAND HEIGHTS, KY -Wed., Jan. 31 Northern Kentucky University Fine Arts Building BLOOMINGTON, IN-Thurs., Feb. 1 Indiana University School of Music 
INDIANAPOLIS, IN -Fri., Feb. 2 Howard Johnson's Motor Lodge 1-70 E/Post Rd. Exit 
DAYTON, OH -Sat., Feb. 3 Holiday Inn. Downtown 1-75 and 1st Street 
Also at Cedar Point Sat.. Feb. 10; Sat., Feb. 17 minimum age 18 FOR OTHER AUDITION SITES AND FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LIVE SHOWS 


CEDAlPOINT 
SANDUSKY, OHIO 44870 419-626-0830 


Engineering & Computer Science Majors 
DON'T GRADUATE 
without talking to the Hughes Recruiter visiting your campus soon. 
Contact your placement office for interview dates. 
r~-----------·-----, 
I I 
:HUGHES: 
I I 
L------------------~
O,.tlng • ,_world with electronics 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F 

1· ·,·, -­
........-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, January 31 , 1979 -page 3 

Possible machine installation 
Grace Hall considers laundry 
by Pat Toomey Ithis· semester. Wesseln has the annual turnover of manage­
lbeen trying to get them ment in any student-run opera­
installeq since September. tion 

The installation of laundry Under the plan now bemg In order for this plan to be machines in Grace Hall is considered, the University implemented, it would have to currently under seiious consi: would rent the machines and be approved by both the admi­deration by the University. put them in the Grace base­nistration and Grace Hall resi­Thomas Mason, vice-president ment. The revenue gained dent. Brother Kieran Ryan, for Business Affairs, stated the from this system would offset vice-president for Business machines could be installed the loss in income which the Affairs, is scheduled to visit "this semester, if no serious ~otre Dame laundry would Grace soon to make sure that problems develop." mcur. the basement would be a suit­
Curt W esseln, Grace Hall Mason said he opposed a ~ble location for laundry mach­vice-president, the driving student-run operation because tnes. force behind the proposal, is he did not want a proliferation W esseln will go to the Grace optimistic about the proposed of student vendors on campus. Hall Council tonight to settle 
installation of the machines for He also expressed concern over several issues. Grace residents ========================must determine if they will 
restrict the use of the machines to Grace residents, if they will
Students return to class 
accept having the University run the machines, and if a

after sniper assault • 
laundry would best utilize the involved space.
SAN DIEGO (AP) -A few "if they need any help." minutes before the children Monday's violence began as started filing back into Cleveland the students and staff arrived for Elementary School yesterday, a school. They were walking up a playground supervisor knelt on wide sidewalk to enter the main the sidewalk to clean away the building when the shots rang out. bloodstains. The children screamed and 
The flag" was flying at half scattered, Principal Burton 
mast. Wragg saw a student fall and 
"I had bad dreams and rushed from his office. He was thought the lady would still be hit in the chest and fell on the here," said 9-year-old George sidewalk, 30 feet from the front Johnson as he entered the school door. about 8:40 a.m. "But my dad Michael Suchar, the school said it's all right now." custodian, ran to Wragg's aid 
Twenty-four hours earlier, a and also was hit in the chest. sniper holed up in a house across Both men died later. 1 the street had opened fire with a One of the first officers to .22 caliber rifle, killing the princ-arrive, Robert Robb, 28, was also ciple and the janitor and wound-hit. He was in fair condition in~ nine others including eight yesterday at Alvarado Hospital children. with a neck wound. · 
The "lady" of the boy's dream Six of the eight wounded 
has been identified by police as students were treated for and 
Brenda Spencer, a 16-year-old released, but two 9-year-old girls 
girl who they say sprayed the remained in serious condition. 
school grounds with gunfire in a Miss Spencer, a red-haired 
seven-hour seige. 11th-grader described as "an 
Miss Spencer, described by a average" student at Patrick 
girlfriend as ''crazy about guns,'' Henry High School, came out of was being held at J unvenile Hall the house and surrendered at while law enforcement officials 3:10p.m. She Jar. down a pellet decided what charges to file and gun and a .22 caliber rifle with a ·whether she will be prosecuted as telescopic sight and went back an adult or a juvenile. It may be inside to fetch several hundred several days before a decision is rounds of ammunition, police 
made. said. 
Teachers went ahead with their There were open liquor bottles regular class plans yesterday but in the front room of the house and much of the time was spent police said the girl told them that trying to explain the violence of she had been drinking and taking the day before. barbituates. 
Most of the children appeared calm, but some seemed dazed. · Last summer Miss Spencer Acting l?rincipal Daryl Barnes was arrested for shooting out the said psychiatric help will be given Cleveland school's windows with 



Club pr•••nt• a 
.luda & Self Defense 
Presentatian Tanit~~ht at 7:DDpm in th• FIC:C: Pit. Free Admissian
I 



2nd Annual 
to any ofthe school's 311 pupils, a B-B gun. 
WINTER mADNESS SALE will bring ,you savings of up to 

80%! 
'' 

The Observer Wednesday, January 31, 1979 -page 4 




MCAUTO PROGRAMMING CHALLENGES 
/ ­
I 

The Programming Sciences area of McDonnell Douglas Automation Company has opportunities for college graduates with Bachelor or Master degrees in Computer Science, Mathematics, Physics and Engineering. 
INTERACTIVE GRAPHICS DATA-BASE APPLICATIONS 
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CONSULTING Opportunities to design, implement and Work with prospective users of the maintain state-of-the-art graphics ap­System 2000 Data-Base Management plications for Business and Engineering System in the areas of application 
I 
I on HP-3000 Mini-Computers, IBM 370 development, user training, documenta­
I. 
MVS/TSO, and CDC Cyber 175 Com­tion, and systems implementation. puter Systems. MANAGEMENT CONTROL REAL TIME APPLICATIONS PROGRAMMING APPLICATIONS 
PROGRAMMING Examples include developing critical Opportunities to develop sophisticated path scheduling algorithms, resource systems software for mini-computer allocation algorithms, and cost tracking based systems and general purpose methods. computers such as the IBM 370. 
SCIENTIFIC APPLICATIONS ENGINEERING PROGRAMMING PROGRAMMING 
APPLICATIONS Opportunities in Robotics to develop a Develop and maintain Civil, Structural, control language, vision techniques, and Mechanical Engineering software. and control systems. 
The McDonnell Douglas Representative will be at your campus on: 
Wednesday February 7, 1979 
Make an appointment through your Placement Office to talk to us about your future, or send your resume to: T. P. Stiffler • College Relations Manager McDonnell Douglas Corp. 
P.O. Box 516 • Department 062 St. Louis, Missouri 63166 
.. -· 
~-------------------------------------------------~-~ 


...---------­
The Observe1 Wednesday, January 31, 1979 -page 5 
. • . 1' ~ 
., 
!' 
• • . Carroll 


Wed.  J4ZZ c1t tilt? r-44ZZ wltli lilt? 4~{1f)£1< Jc~zz {f)rni:>f)  
Fri.­ wltli  
(1\t?l'lll (2ul"lt?-,~ 41 ~c~l:>lclt?clu~ 13t?til lt?clill clllcl ~lt:il ()ff?Zif)§f))  
Sat.­ ..lJSI£14~S J4..-13llJIS ~lfJI-11 Just ('f)lll£' Ill ()tlcl J()rn h1 <l lf'lcl~£'cl cllrTl(!§(llif'rf:'ill c)II IT1 lJ~Ic 1(111~ W£'1f (JITlf'•  

NAZZ apens at !I:DD and cia••• at 12:DD weekdays and I::JD an weekends 


r-·February 2 & 3·-·fri. and Sat;-· I 7,9, and 11 
I I I I I I I I I I I I
I Sponsored by I SMC SOCIAL COMMISSIONI admission $1.00 


I•------Carroll Hall SMC ______J 
(Continued from page 1) 
adults." 
"I personally object to not 
being treated as an adult here at 
Notre Dame, •·• Coonan continu­
ed. "That is, in large part, what 
is wrong with the soc1al atmos­
phere here at Notre Dame. It's 
downright unhealthy." 
Echomg Coonan's sentiments 
was a roomful of Carroll resi­
dents, all of whom were q_uick to 
point out they they are primarily 
mterested in changing the social 
atmosphere at Notre Dame. 
The students said that they 
could have picked any issue to 
protest, but they chose parietals 
because they see that 1ssue as central to creating "the unheal­thy atmosphere." 
Drury tempered the residents' remarks with the observation that Carroll Hall in particular "has cenain problems' ' that affect the viewpoint of its residents. 
''You have to understand, flrst ofall, it takes a deliberat~ act for someone to come and visit out here. We are pretty isolated," he said. 
"Second we have mosdy fresh­men and sophomores in the hall. We have only seven upf>erclass­men besides the RA's. Ifwe had more upperclassmen, I'm sure there would be a more mature 
[continued on page 7 ) 
ACIOSS
c 
I. "Tetched" 

R 
6. 
Peels 

II. Spry 

0 
12. 
Spoke: 2 wda. 

s 
14. 
Stratag•ms I 5. Stimulate 

s 
16. 
Privattt t-onver· sation : 3 wds. 


18. One th11t pro·
w duct·&: ~utl\x 
0 
19. 
The "N" in N.B. 

20. Elevate 

R 
21. 
Cheap and 


D 
gaudy 24. Ma5culintt nam~ 
s 
25. Tnaa river 
211. Diluted 
27. 
Jarcon 

28. 
Sullen 

29. 
Manly brews 

30. 
Unuoually good ~I. Christmas drink 


32. Winter "visitor": 2 wda. 
37. Gymnaetic 
apparatus 3!1. Proprrtion ~0. Estabh•hes 
41. 
lnsperting 

42. 
Transartions 


43. All~viates 

Yesterday's answers 




Applications for SENIOR BAR 
Managers 1979-80 can be picked up in Room 315, Dean of Students 
Office, after February 1. Applications are due February 9 with recommendations . So...PICK THEM UP EARLY! 
DOWN 
I. M.>ve quiekly 
2. 
M' Iarial fever 

3. 
Cle ·oched hMnd 4. Ru11 away 


5. 
AmLcuoua reply: 3 wda. 

6. 
Ship of 1492 

7. 
Church .projection 

8. 
Corded fabrir 

9. 
Buildings 

10. 
Certain to be succeaaful: hyph. wd. 


12. Devoutne10 
13. Impudently 
17. Lacerated 
20. 
Mother of Apollo 

21. 
Cut to fit 

22. 
Renounce 

23. 
Peruke• 

24. 
Lighthea.·ted 


26. Angles 
26. Travail 
28. Symbols ot' authority 
30. IJemoliahH 
32. 
Take definite form 

33. 
East Indian broadbill 

34. 
BiK name in elevators 


36. Without: Latin 
36. Clothes 
38. Srhool organi­zation: abbr. 

Saturday NiF~~hl: LaFarl:une Fever 
movie clips 



Lafortune Ballraam !1:3Dpm -I:DDam Sat. February :Jrd 
THE BLUES!! 


of either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD_The Observer_ reponed as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson 
Managing Ediror ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray 0 'Bn'en
as possible. Editorials represent the Box Q Notre J)ame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chns Stewart 
Board. Commenraries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Lang henry Photo Editor ...........Doug Chn'stian The Obseroer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mf/ls per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Edito~ ... : . . . . . . . . Phil Cacld_el Production Manager . . . . . . Manit· Nevin Universiry of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Sal" ~ary s EdJtoF ...... Ellen Buddy Business Manager ........ john Tucker 
Advertising Manager: . · ...... Bob Rudy
Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam-N• '1itor .............. Ann Gales 
·~or ............. Mike Lewis 
reflect the policies of the administration ' through letters, is encouraged. . 


by Garry Trudeau ACC experiences overcrowding 
Wednesday, January 31, 1979 -page 6 
• 



Winter forces athletes indoors 

'MFNtN6,
1 VICTrY<! : I 
d 
HI, PHRED! HOfAJ5 EV£3RYTHIN& GO­ING OVER. Jrf 7HE SCCI.JRfTY CILNCJl-? 
by Maribeth Moran 

Winter's snow and frigid temperatures force many of Notre Dame's full and part-time athletes indoors during the cold months. Both the Rockne Mem­orial and the ACC experience a marked increase in the use of their respective facilities. Ac­cording to Mike Danch, events manager at the ACC, ''we get so crowded that we're reaching the limit in the usage of space in the building." 
Among those who use the ACC for training are twelve varsity sports, numerous clubs and intra­mural leagues, and individuals. Men's basketball, hockey, wrest­ling, fencing, baseball, track, soccer, and tennis · as well as women's fencing, tennis, and basketball are the varsity sports that use the ACC. Add to this the interhall sports of hockey and basketball, co-ree sports such as volleyball and one can perceive what an extremely crowded schedule there is at the ACC. "We're bulging at the seams", states Danch. 
Danch also pointed to the many individuals who come in from the cold to jog in the concourse or to use the weight room. Boxers who wish to partici.{>ate in the Bengal Bouts also tram here. Squash, handball, and racquetball courts are filled to capacity, so filled, it is difficult to reserve one. 
The ice rink also sees much service in the form of interhall hockey, free skating and use by physical education classes. ''Our biggest problem is to accom­modate what is going on now. we really have no security problems," said Danch. 
Accommodation is also a prob­lem at the Rock according to Edward Kazmierzak, supervisor of the Rockne Memorial. "Ac­tivity really picks up the ftrst ftve weeks of the semester due to the weather and lighter workloads", he stated. 
As many as 850 students use the Rock on any given day, last Saturday, however over 1000 students used the facility. The mo~t popular areas seem to be the racquetball courts and bas­ketball gymnasium where long waits are required before playing a game. 
While the Rock's pool and weight rooms are kept busy by individual athletes, several club sports use it as a conditioning center. Both the gymnastics club and the ND Crew use it as the site for winter workouts. 
Molarity 
Michael Molinelli 
• NOW THAT 1-JE HAV£ A : TREATY WJ'TH CHINA THEY~E! GOJN6 TO SELL SOM£ 

HELP THE HUNGRY Fast forms available tonight in dining halls. 
-~J 
·, 
Her, THATS 
RIGHT! YOU 
We MEA Sll3AI< 
DINNER! 
NOW, IAJ4fTA 
MINIJT&-AR& '11J(JSURe 'tW eiJYS [)ft:JN'T lJ5E CiBANS? 


----------------~--------------­
---~ ------------~-­
The Observer Wednesday, January 31, 1979 -page 7 
• • . China 
• . Carroll.
• 

[continued from page 5 1 
that it will pass with no Jim O'Hare, of Grace said that view. Different things would be problem." • while the "symbolism of the discussed,'' Drury continued. Pangborn President Jose thing is good, I don't like the 
"No matter where you go or Marrero said that, although he smell of it. It sounds like what you do, people will ~e didn't "know all the ramifica­c.onsp~acy ~at the administra­telling you what to do, and this tions yet," he would be in favor tion ts m on wtth Carroll to kick us happens all throughout life," of such a resolution. ''If it is a all off campus (for breaking Drury said. "You are going to be well organized thing, I'll be all parietals) so that there will be no marching to many tunes." for it," he said. ne,..d for a lottery." 
When informed of the resi­dents' plan to gain campus wide support for abolishing parietals, Drury indicated that he thought 
Engineering & Computer Science Majors 
other hall councils might not go along with the Carroll Hall Coun­cil plan. "I think it is going to be interesting to see how they 
WATCH FOR THE 
react," he said. Four hall presidents were con­
HUGHES 
tacted by the Observer, and they 
RECRUITER VISITING
were all in favor of presenting the plan to their Hall Councils. 
YOUR CAMPUS SOON.
Three indicated that a resolution similar to the Carroll resolution 
would pass easily. 
Contact your placement office
TomPaese, Flanner Hall pres­ident, srud that, alth.ough his hall 
for Interview dates. 
does not generally have parietal 
problems, he would still be "100 
,------------------,
I I
percent with them." Marty Paulsen, Dillon presi­
l HUGHES: 
I I
dent, said his hall "would be 
~------------------J
overwhelmingly for it. It will 
Ctullllfl 1 ntiW WOI1d with elecltDflics 
pass unanimously in Dillon. We 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
are pretty disgusted with the 
Provost's reiectton of that (CLq 
appeal on parietals, so I'm sure 





Classifieds 
. 
Need Dayton BB Tickets Call Steve 1857.
Notices Wanted 
Wanted Dayton tickets Call Ann 41-5165 
ravel to London & Rome this summer. Need ride to chicago on friday. Will Need GA's for Dayton game Call1840.
For more Information contact Dr. A. 
share driving and/or expenses Call Don Black SMC 4948. at 8175. 
Need 4 Dayton tickets quick!! Call Jeff 6749.
Nocturne Nl~htFIIght, WSND 89FM, Need ride to Chicago Friday Feb 2 Call 
Renee Reder eatures Peter Carr, "Mul-6143. 
Need 2 GA tlx to any weekend home
tlple Flash" tonight. 
B-Ball game Call Don 1059 
PART TIME JOBS: Excellent pay...work 
Fellow Floridians of ND & SMC: There 
wheneverl!ou have time... no obligation. Need Dayton tickets! Big money call Paulwill be an Important meeting of the 
Write: UMCHOICE Box 530, State 272-5201
Florida Club on Wednesday, Jan 31 at 7 
College, PA. 16801...and start earning 
~ In the LaFortune Theatre. DUES next week. 
I need many Dayton B-Ball tlx. Call 8937.
ILL BE COLLECTED. WAR! No, just kidding, but I do need 3
Accurate. fast tyf'ng. Mrs. Bedford Dayton GA tlx. (Not necessarily all

For Sale 
288-2107 Hours: am to 5 pm. 
together) Call John at 3089. 
.tJI
Attention all Logan Volunteers and 
For Sale Section: ·Need 3tlx for Dayton ~arne. Call CindyInterested students! 
Hundreds of 8-track tapes for sale. Good 5762 Desperately need.
Like to watch hockey? Help some of the 
condition. Call Brad at 6931.
mentally handicapped kids and adults 
De~erately need Dayton B B tickets
enjoy the Colorado College-NO Hockey 
HP-25 Calculator, fully programmable, stu ent or GA will pay good money Call game this Friday, February 2nd. Cheer Larry 1205.
scientific. Call 1780.
the N D leers to vlcto~ and help the kids too. Meet at Logan enter on Frida~ at 
Cold? Nice warm hand made quilts for Help! Bobby Desperately needs 46:30 pm. Tickets are provided for Ids 
~added seat) UCLA tix $$$! Please call
sale. 8269.
and volunteers. 
607.
R~ular Saturdat Rec this Saturday, Feb 
Bl~, great speakers for sale call Bernie
3r . at Logan enter From 9:()(}11 :00 
Desparately need 1 or 2 student or GA
33 2 or 3321.
a.m. Come and join In on the fun! 
UCLA tlx. Call 41-4103.
Questions call Mike 1371 or Sue 41-4832. 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7 Ralph Casperon 1303 Buchanan Road I need any UCLA tix Call 4-4908 Nlies. 683-2888. 
Need 5 Maryland Tlx Call Ron 4614

Lost&Found 
Lost: One gold medal on 18" chain. Need Dayton tix call Tim 8821. 
Christ profile. Reward 2103. 

Tickets 
Needed: 5GA tix for Dayton. John 8894.
Found: Money call and Identity Phil 1245. 
Relatives of John Wooden need GA tix tor Need money? Sell Me UCLA Stu. tix. UCLA Call Matt 6637 Tony 1423.
Lost: A light brown cashmete scarf with red and black stripes. Please call Karen 
Will sell suitemates or provide much cash Wanted UCLA tix Call Mike 289-9351
at 6779. 
for UCLA student ticket. Call Mike at 1619. Wanted: 1or 2student or GA UCLA tix.
Lost: Blue, Nylon coat with gloves, hat Will pay good$$$$. Call F.J. 1222and keys in pocket. At Goose's Sat. 1120 
Need 1UCLA ticket (student or GA). Call
Don 8175. 
Ken 1141. Need up to 6 Dayton Tix. Greg 1606. Lost: White adidas B-Ball shoes at track 
Need GA tickets for any home basketball I desperately need two GA or studentmeet in ACC near hockey rink Friday game. Call Dave 1146. tickets for the UCLA game. If I don'tnight, 1/26. Call 1521. 
come through, mb sister will have myNeed 4 Xavier Tickets for family! Please hide! Call Kevin . at 1787.
Lost: Gold longines pocket watch. 
Help! $$ Call Felix 1685.
PLEASE return for a big $ reward, this DAYTON* DAYTON* DAYTON! Get thew•tch Is my entire life!! Jim 2164. 
Need 2 Dyton Tix. Call Ray 8686. picture? I need tickets. As many as 
possible In any combination. Call John at Need 1 student bleacher UCLA ticket. 3089. Jim, 3621 or 7469.

For Rent 
I need UCLA tickets badly Call Matt 
Desperately need 2 GA's to an~ home 1780. Big Country house for rent, furnished, basketball game. Call Brad at 6 31. el~ht to ten minutes travel. for next Need 2 Dayton GA tix will pay $$ Doug sc ool year. 2n-3604. $ Need many Dayton B-Ball tickets. Call 8641. 
John 272-9354. $ 
Furnished four bedroom house for rent Oe~eratley need Dayton tix-GA or couple qlocks from campus for next Mafia Contract out on me unless I ~et 5 stu ent. Call 8007. school year. 2n-3604. · Dayton tix as soon as possible. orne 
family members from East Coast coming Wanted: GA or student tickets to DaytonMALE Roommate needed for N.D. apts. In to make an offer I can't refuser Help game Call 2n-3422. $75.~r month plus utilities. Call Matt call Gulsepe at 3089 
234-2 ' S & M Friends from Dayton would love to 
• 
[continued from page 1 1 "With this policy, we believe we can achiev peaceful reuni­fication. Like you, we want to resolve the isue by peacef\d means. We Chinese have patience. However, China cannot commit herself not to resort to other means because if 
Meet Someone New 

THE RAMROD 
EVERY Thursday  
Pitchers  
just  
.$1.50  
* dance floor* pool table  * DJ Buddy King every Fri ~ Sat night  
511 S. Mich St.  
(downtown)  open till 3am.  

we did it would not be benefic­ial to peaceful reunification." 
Carter, while confirming he was quoted al curately, Cochran said his original Teng quotes were "100 strong" and that "I would be more comfortable saying he (Teng) ~·r~ated the impression ­
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m .. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Fnday. 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p m. All cla~sif1eds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail 
see their team w~Ged and beaten. Sundancers 
Need tickets; Joe . Have more fun!! 2211 N. Main at McKinley In Mishawaka. 256-0971 
Tom Perrucclo was happy to see his friends from Indiana durin~break. While he Is recureeratlng from Is Illness he would be p eased to recelw mall from the 

Personals 
Corky: When the music starts. man your 
ND communi~ 
organ. LeMans 222 
Orange Rd. Middletown, CT.
AMEN INC: HAPPY HOUR 06457 at Nickles 4-6 All our welcome Beers 3 Anne Johnson, R.N.
for $1 and 7&7-.50 Sundancers Old somebody say disco was dead? Turn you on! 2211 N. Main at McKinley
WRONGO$$ Disco Is back with a In Mishawaka. 256-0971.
rengeance! D.K 
Sundancers 
Are for lovers! 2211 N. Main at Patsy Campbell gets Into hot wax!!! 
McKinley In Mishawaka. 256-0971 . 
Marybeth, Sundancers Face it, the world loves you, admires Are number one! 2211 N. Main at ~u, admirers are all around. Just McKinley In Mishawaka 256-0971. 
cause you don't get more personal's means nothing. You're the favorite. 
Business Opportunity. Introduce Sun-
dancer to your friends. Apply 2211 N. 
Barry M-We're all so happb for you-we'll Main at McKinleY, In Mishawaka or call all danee at your wedding. ut truthfully, 256-0971. is It love or Is It twl ns?? 
Allee: Peggy & Friends, I I hope you enjoyed the skiing as much as ISorry I missed your party. I tried. 
did, but I'm sorry If I tried to hard, even 
Sean 
though I'm not sorry for trying. "47" 
Dear Suey.Happy Birthday! 
Welcome to legali~. Sweetheart 111 ! ! ! ! ! ! Love K..G. 1 do. Thanks for a great lime last week-end. 
Seniors: Your capitol cutle pie.
Buy your tickets. Nan tor cinnabars $15.00 per couple. Tlx on sale In LeMans Hey third floor Lewis,lobby 11-2 and in N D dining halls Ahem. the farmer had three cows.
Man-Friday. 
and ...a what? Love. Mlddle Earth
Klmbie, If you think I'm sexy, 
Come hear Ginocchio play "Jungle"·If you want my body 
Drums in the Nazz tonight.
Come on baby let me know!! Dave Please. Sign up tonight to fast once In a week and help teed others. 
151 Breen Phillips: Holding for ransome two seals and one 
Odysseus, Thomas Jefferson, and Satan Nunkie Lovie. If interested In safe all had red-hair. 
return, hang something out window Wednesday at midnight. 
Red Heads have most fun. 
Kidnappers HELENE AND MARYWhat Color? 
HI, How's the diet going? Here is the 
TO 
personal you both wanted. 
Chicago registered voters desiring TIM JOYCE,
absentee ballots for Feb. 27 primary We never see you anymoreelection, please call Kathy Byrne at Rosie and Trlsh!41-5425. 
HOLYCROSS 3rd NorthSpring to Life with Sundance! 2211 N. 
Come to the formal and make Trlsh happy
Main at McKinley In Mishawaka. for a change!256-0971 HI KATHY* JEANINE AND LISA! !I! 
Need ride to Ann Arbor Area. Feb 3-5. Will share expenses. Call Dusty 4-1-5183 
Need ride to Chlca~. Feb 3-5. Will share expenses Qlll argle 4-1-5183 

---------~ 


SRorts 
Orlando Woolridge: 'The Tree' plants his roots at Notre Dame 
by Mike Ortman Sports Wnler 
''A slam dunk by the TREE ... Orlando Woolridge," bellows the announcer in that drawn out, often-mimicked way. The crowd responds fanatically.''O'' they scream as they spring from their seats to voice their 
approval 
Orlando certainly has the abil­ity to keep the fans in the game, even when the Irish lead by such lopsided margins. His awesome slams, jams and stuffs arouse the emotions of even the most bored spectato.r in the ACC. 'I do that to get the team fired up and to get the fans fired up,'' admits the 6-9 forward. "It's just one small way for me to contribute to our team." But as most Irish fans know, Woolridge contributes in many other ways as well. 
Woolridge's stats are typical for this year's Irish squad. Before last night's game, he had connected on 65 of his field goal attempts, was one of five players averaging between four and five rebounds per game 
(4.1) and was one of the five scorers averaging in double figures (11.2). All of that ain't bad when you consider that the "Tree" plays just 24 minutes per game. 
Without a doubt, Woolridge is 
a big favorite of the student body. In the recent game agamst South Carolina, Game­cock forward Cedrick Hordges violently fouled the sophomore giant. The students became outraged. This brazen lumber­jack had chopr,ed down their mighty "Tree. ' They became so incensed with anger that every time flordges touched the ball, a thunderous ''boo'' rang throughout the arena. It seems that the students need "0" (to keep things interesting in some of those one-sided slaughters), but he needs the students as well. "I need them to get me up sometimes,'' says the Mansfield, LA. native. "I'll be out on the court sometime and I'll need a little extra something to get me going. To know that they're behind me really gets the adrenaline flow­ing." 
There is little question that the relationship between Woolridge and the stUdents is an excellent one. But Orlando feels that this relationship extends outside the confines ofthe ACC. ''In a lot of colleges, the student body rarely gets to meet the players or even 
get to know who they are off the court. That's what I really love about Notre Dame. People here can get to know you off the court as well. It's not "here is a basketball player" and "here is a student." Instead it's "here is a friend. '' The athletes aren'i: really singled out here and I like that." 
Woolridge feels that the high­light of his brief Notre Dame career was this year's San Fran­cisco game. That marked the second time that "0" received a game's MVP honors (St. Francis was the other). Against the Dons, he hit nine of thirteen from the floor for 18 points and hauled down seven rebounds, leading the team in both depart­ments. "I got to play ~ainst some really good competition in that game," said Woolridge. The Dons weren't only "really good" but they were "really big." Frisco, led by 7-1 All­American Bill Cartright, boasts one of the tallest front lines in college basketball. But Wool­ridge's career is yet young. Surely he will receive more MVP honors in the future. 
By the way, when asked whether he preferred to be called "0" or, "Tree " Woolrid~e responded "Well, they call '0" around here," gesturing to his teammates. "But I mean look, compared to him (pointing to 6-11 
Laimbeer ;), I'm JUSt a shrub." 
Somehow it is hard to ima­
gine the students standing up after a Woolridge dunk and screaming ''shrub!'' 

Wednesday, January 31, 1979 -page 8 
~~-··::..a..;::.. 
He's the "Tree", Woolridge, seen here doing what he does best. [Photo by Doug Chnstian] 
MVP Branning leads with 16 

Notre Dame paints Brown green 
by Ray O'Brien letdown after their last-second 12:08 remainin~. "Digger" over 70 points all year, got all Sports Editor loss on Saturday as -Orlando Phelps then sent 10 a new crew as their offense from Peter Moss. Woolridge and Bill Hanzlik lead Brown did some regrouping of Moss thrilled an otherwise quiet 
Despite a weekend loss to an early barrage. Notre Dame their own. crowd with a slam dunk and a Maryland, Notre Dame's basket­broke a 4-4 tie and ran off ten Bruin Coach Joe Mullaney block of a Woolridge shot as his ball team held on to their number unanswered J>?in~s. and that was slo~ed down the pace to little team salvaged a 46-27 deficit by one ranking and didn't disap­as close as therr VISitors from the avail as the home team continued halftime. point any of their backers as they east wou!d get. this night. to. increase ~e ga.P with Stan The second stanza was not quickly crushed the Bruins of An~ther eight po10t. rush after a .. Wilcox and Mike Mitchell hin_jpg much different from the frrst Brown, 80-53 last night at the BCUlO basket spearheaded by only net on their field goal except that Mullaney solved ACC. Rich Branning's outside shooting attempts. ND's full court press, cutting 
The Irish showed no signs of a gave Notre Dame a 22-6lead with Brown, who . has not scored down on turnovers and the amount of scoring. Branning, who was voted the game's MVP, continued to hit from the top of
SharonPetro eyes second state 
title 
the key and was joined outside by Tracy Jackson as Notre Dame cruis~cf to the 80-53 flOal tally. 
Two state championships in two different sports "I thought we played well," for one coach in one year? Is it possible? Sharon Mark offered Phelps afterwards. ''The Petro will find out in a mattel of a tew weeks. defensive intensity at the begin­
In the fall of '78, Petro's women's tennis team 
Hannuksela ning of the game was necessarycapnired the Indiana state team tennis champion­·to set the tempo of the game and ship. As we near the spring of '79, Petro's avoid the slowdown.'' 
of Notre Dame tradition. Over the course of their same goal. But their road isn't paved. year-and-a-half existence, the team has a com­Phelps was especially pleased At this point in the season, the Notre Dame bined record of 24-6. Among the more notable with the play of his guards as 
women's basketball team is headed towards the Branning's 16 point perfor­women own an 11-2 record. And they have five accomplishments for the team thus far are mance, 8-12 from the floor,
very difficult games ahead of them. Th_e frrst of tournament wins at Huntington and Northern rhose games will involve a trip to Snow C1ty, USA, Illinois, four consecutive wins over Valparaiso, and marked the end of a slump for the where the Irish will take on DePaul. The game, a four more over archrival Saint Mary's College. Oh, Irish floor leader. "I thought 
rriake-up of a previously scheduled game, will be and one more thing; of the fourteen members of Branning played well, showed plared on Tuesday. Then on Sa~day,_ the Irish this year's team, only three will be lost to intensity and shot well," said wil play host to a tall Marquette Uruverstty club at graduation. To most fans, that means the team will Phelps. "I think this really was 
3:30 p.m. at the ACC. The flOal three regular get better; to most opponents, that means trouble. good for his confidence." season games will be against three of the top teams Individually, senior co-captain Carol Lally has "The way I've been playing in Notre Dame's distrtct. It is these three teams spearheaded the Irish attack by averaging 14.2 lately, I wanted to get things
that will pose the most problems for Petro's squad points per ballgame and 5.5 rebounds. That together," confided Branning. _orne tournament time. rebounding figure is good for third place on the "I think I've been letting down "I can't really assess how well we'll do in the team. Jane Politiski leads that category with 106 
the team in a lot of areas. But 
oumaments," stated Petro, "until I've seen how rebounds, and 8.6 game average. Politiski is also I'm happy we're number one at 
well we perform against St. Joe's (supposedly the second on the team in scoring with an 8.6 ppg the halfway mark and I'm think­in district), One of the Irish's oncoming stars has
toughest team the Marion, and average. ing of the rest of the games as a
Goshen. All three are super tough, and the fact been freshman Tricia McManus. At 5-11, the second season.'' 
that they have revamped the state pairings doesn't tallest member of the team, Tricia has the third On the Irish number onehelp us either. Under the new rules we have to win highest point total on the team (92, including 22 
our district to make the states." against SMC on Saturday, for a 7.1 average), is ranking Phelps remarked, ''I was ''But we can't look ahead too far yet; we've gotta second in rebounding with a 6.4 average, and leads surprised at the ranking because play DePaul frrst." the team in blocked shots with 15. I voted for Indiana State. When Indeed, the road ahead is tough, and DePaul is What's in store for the Irish? Well, this reporter North Carolina lost I thought we next, but visions of the past should be enough to doesn't claim to hold a key to the future, but I've would stay at number two. But tame the fears of those looking ahead. seen the door, and looked through the keyhole. we don't have to prove anything. In only .their second year, the team has When Sharon Petro gets there, I think she's going We've established ourselves as a established itself as anothe~ of the great upholders to like what she sees. national power and we just have 
'80-53 . one month to get ready for the NCAA's." Woolrid~e and Jackson hit double digits for ND with 12 and 10 points respectively. ·Moss poured in 14 markers in the losing cause as Brown dropped to 5-9 on the season. Notre Dame will be without the services of Gilbert· Salinas for the remainder of the season due to academic ineligibility. The Irish's next contest is against Xavier Thursday night at the ACC. Tipoff is set for 8 p.m. 

Captains to meet 
There will be an important meeting for all men's Interhall Basketball captains, Wednesday, Jan. 31, at 4:30 in the ACC Auditorium. Due to excessive water leakage, Gym IV will no longer be available for use. Con­sequent schedule changes will be announced at the meetin~. Captains will be held responsible for all revisions made at this time. 




