~-----------------------.._-----~-~--~---~---~ ~--~---­
Unite andabolish -page 5
' ' ' 

VOL XIII, NO. 74 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mru-Y's 
Hall Councils react to 'abolition ofparietals' 
Editor's Note: The following article deals with student reactions to a recent decision made by the Carroll Hall Council to ''abolish' ' parietals. A follow-up story in tomorrow's Observer will deal with the administration's reaction to the council's move. 
byjohn McGrath Senior StaffReporter 

The Stanford Hall Council voted unanimously to abolish parietals at its regular weekly meeting last night. Ed Andrle, Stanford Hall presicfent, called for organization among dorms to suppon the movement initiated by Carroll Hall. Andrle noted that there were several Stanford residents who were willing to work on this organiz.ation, and sai~ hewas anxi?us to see action instead of just talk. 
Las.t .rught the ?t. Ed s ~all ~ouncil voted. to poll the entire hall on the abolmon of parietals. Bdl Vtta, hall president, stated that the council w~. addressed by three residents of Carroll Hall, including the ongmator of the movement, Mark Mocarski. 
"The vast opinion (expressed at the meeting) was great dissatisfaction with the way the University was run m general and particularly with parietals,'' Vita explained. He added that a quick poll of one floor disclosed 20 residents in favor of abolishing parietals and one against. If the whole dorm feels that way, I guess we'll go ~ead an.d suppon the acti?n, Vita ~oncluded. The results of the poll will be discussed at a spectal meetmg of the hall council tonight. 

Many d~rms co~~ucted hall council meetings on Tuesday night, and the resu_lung postuons taken by the groups varied from those strongly s~I?ponmg the Carroll action to those considering the move to be ndiculous. 
The ~arroll decision came at a meeting on Monday night by a group of restdents who hope that their idea will catch on campus-wide as a way of protesting University policies. 
Speaking for the residents of Holy Cross Hall, Dan Darfler, dorm president, assessed the situation by saying, ''I think the students are pretty e!lcour:aged by it (the Carroll action) ... a lot of people are going to take tt senously. '' 
Pangborn and Flanner Halls are examples of dorms that took an even stronger stance. The hall councils of both dorms voted in unanimous or near-unanimous decisions to offer suppon to the Carroll group. 
"If they (Carroll residents) start the ball rolling, we'll be Wlth them 100 percent," remarked Tom Paese, Flanner Hall president. Jose Marerro, Pangborn Hall _{>resident, echoed Paese's comments, pointing out that his dorm 1s taking a similar position towards the parietals ''abolition.'' 
"We're going to lay back for now and let them (Carroll residents) lead the way. They've already got it started, so I don't want to interfere with them,'' Marerro said. 
Other dorms are less positive of their stand on the issue, adopting "wait and see" attitudes. 
[continued on page 10) 
For US and China Agreements signify new era 
WASHINGTON (AP) --Presi­dent Carter andTengHsiao-ping, declaring ''the honeymoon will continue," signed scientific and cultural exchange agreements yesterday, marking the stan of a new era of cooperation between the United States and China. 
Shonly before the signing cere­mony in the White House East Room, climaxing the Chinese vice premier's three-day official visit to Washington, Teng blas­ted the Soviet Union in a nation­ally televised interview as ''the main hotbed of war'' in the world. 
In separate interviews with U.S. print and broadcast correspon­dents, Teng urged the United States, Japan, Western Europe and the 'iblrd World to join China in "solid, down-to-earth united action'' to thwart Soviet aggres­sian around the world. 
Teng also pledged very effort to achieve a peacetul reunification of Taiwan and mainland China but said that for tactical reasons he could not foreswear use of armed force to gain control of the island stronghold of the Nation­alist regime. 
Carter, who says he is intent on pursuing a balanced course in 
U.S. relations with the Soviet Union as well as China, said of his talks with Teng: "We have agreed to consult regularly on matters of common strategic interest Obviously the secunty concerns of the United States do not coincide with those of China, nor does China share our respon­sibilities. But a strong and secure China which contributes constructively to world affairs is 
[continued on page 10) 


1HURSDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1979
................. 
Troops stage display of strength 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) --Tanks and thousands of troops sta~ed a massive display ofstrength m the streets of '!'ehran yesterday to show that Ayatullah Ruhollah Khomeini' s Imminent return does not signal government sur­render to his creation of an Islamic state. 
Prime Minister Shahpour Bakh­tiar, saying Iran is in a "very critical and dangerous period,'' told Iranians in a ramo and television broadcast that the gov­ernment would ''resist chaos and doubtful elements.'' He said,· ''The government will not permit the reins of the country to be held by anyone except the central government.'' 
Three anti-government demon­strators, including two shot by trOO_{>S near volatile Tehran Uni­versity, were killed yesterday, hospital sources said. 
In Paris, Khomeini said he will return to Iran on Thursday, ending nearly 15 years of exile. Millions are expected to greet the opposition religious leader, and he said yesterday he was not intimidated by the show of mili­tary force. 

· A spokesman for Khomeini conceded that, after reports reached Paris of troops taking up new positions near Tehran's Mehrabad airyon, some fol­lowers urged htm to postpone his rerum. 
"But the ayarullah has made his decision and that is it," the spokesman, Sadegh Ghotbza­degh, told reponers in Paris. 
Gunfire echoed near Tehran [continued on page 9] 



ND law professor participates in friendship delegation' 
by Mike Shields Senior StaffReporter 
The Taiwanese are ''a free people in deep trouble because of the termination of the mutual defense treaty,'' according to Charles E. Rice, Notre Dame professor of law. Rice returned to the University Monday after accompanying an unofficial "friendship delegation" to the Republic of China. 
The delegation, composed of 37 politicians, educators, and business leaders, visited the island republic "to demonstrate to the people that they still have substantial suppon in the U.S. and to inform the members of the delegation so they can better ar~e their case back here,'' Rice satd. 
Rice and J. Daniel Mahoney are counsels for the Washington Legal Foundation, the law firm representi~&_ Sen. Barry Gold­water (R-AZ) and other legisla­tors in their suit challenging the legality of President Carter's abrogation of the defense treaty with Taiwan. 
Members of the delegation spent three days conferring with government and business offi­cials, including President Chiang Ching Kuo, Prime Minister Y.S. Sun, the defense minister, the foreign minister, the chief of the General Staff, the president and 50 members of the Yuan (legisla­ture), and representatives of both the American and Chinese cham­bers of commerce. The group also met with the charge d'affairs at the closing American embassy and a group of 40 mainland Chinese refugees. 
' . an economtc . miracle . ' 
"It was a very illuminating and moving experience,'' Rice com­mented. "I was not prepared for the emotional impact of the trip.'' 
He said the delegation's recep­tion was "extremely friendly,-.. and noted an attitude of ''relief'' that some Americans still suppon Taiwan. 

Rice called the republic ''pros­perous, an economic miracle,'' but stressed the country's de­pendence on U.S. materials and technology. 
He accused Caner of exposing Taiwan to a possible "economic boycott and strangulation'' by communist China, citing a "sense of foreboding" among the Taiwanese. 
When asked abo1,1t the pending suit against Carter, Rice offered little optimism about its chances for success. He said he felt the couns would not get involved in the issue. 
Rice said he is concerned with the precedent Carter's move will create. "It's unthinkable that such a thing could be done and no recourse taken,'' he said. 
He saw the possibility of the president becoming an • 'absolute monarch" with the ability to cancel treaties such as NATO or arms limitation agreements . 
• 



-Newrs in brief 
Thursday, February 1, 1979 -page 2 

Checking accounts hit by
Soviets execute three 
. 

raise in service charges 
for subway bombing 
by]ohn Ferroli line with the service rates of two rather than make the charges.'' othermajorareabanks,First Bank With the new increases, St.
MOSCOW (AP)-The Soviet _government has executed three St. Joseph Bank & Trust Co., and American National Bank. Joe Bank will charge $4 percitizens convicted of setting off a bomb in a Moscow subway car 
that killed from four to seven persons, Tass said yesterday. The which controls a large pan of Another area bank, National month for checking accounts with student checking accounts at Bank, is also in the process of less than $100 minimum balance.
official news ~ency said the verdict was handed down Friday to 
Notre Dame, is raising its 
finalizing an increase in their [continued on page 4]Armenian disstdent Stepan ~an and the two unidentified service charge rates, effective service charges. 
"accomplices," but gave no details of the execution. Human today. News of the hike, which A St. Joe official, who attri­rights leader Andrei D. Sakharov said Zadikyan was not in will push service charges up to as buted the hikes to spiralling FThe ObserverMoscow when the bomb exploded Jan. 8, 1977, and that the much as $4 per month, prompted inflation, emt>hasized that it isKGB secret police might have planted it to discredit the 
dissident movement. 
a survey of area banks by a the first time m 16Jears that the Night Editor: Sherry Mltm­Student Government Task Force. bank has increase this type of 
mert
The Task Force, headed by charge. "Our costs are going Asst. Night Editor: Davesenior Mark Hutton and so_I)ho­up,'' the official stated, ''and low 
Brosh
more Randy Hack, compiled data balances are an expense to us.
I&M Fleetric seeks appeal 
which show that the increases by We like to encourage higher Layout Staff: John Smith St. Joe Bank will bring it in balances in savings accounts Editorial Layout: Tom Behney FORT WAYNE, IND (AP)--Indiana and Michlpn Electric Co. 

Features Layout: Chris officials, described as "somewhat amazed,' will appeal a 
Stewart, Cindy McKie/

r-· February 2 & 3,..·Fri. and Sat:-• Sports Layout: Paul MJJ/Ianeyfederal judge's order that I&Mpay $12 million in ~es to 10 
municipal utilities, spokesman Vince LaBarbera said yesterday. 
Typists: lisa DzValeno, Tom 
U.S. District Judge Allen Sharp ruled Tuesday that I&M 
Pipp, Beth Willard, Pete 
violated federal and state anti-trust laws by engaging in 
McFadden 
monopolistic practices in 10 cities and towns in Indiana and Night Controller: NobodyMichigan. The municipalities charged in their suit that I&M 
important
had attempted to put their utilities out of business by charging 
Day Editor: Man'beth Moran
exorbitant wholesale power rates. "Since we keep our rates Copy Readers: Tim Joyce,under the regulatory levels set by the state and federal 
Marian Uliciny
government, it's difficult to understand," LaBarbera said. 
Ad Layout: Matt DeSalvo Photographer: Dave Rumbach 
The Observer [USPS 598 9201 is
EArthquake shakes 
I 
published Monday through Friday ex­
I 
cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the
I 
students of Notre Dame and Saint
New York, New jersey 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be

I I 
purchased for $20 per year ($10 per

1 Sponsored by' I
PER1H AMBOY, N.J. (AP)--Parts of New Jersey and the New 
semester! from The Observer. P .0. box 
Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second
York meo:opolitan area were jolted by a mmor earthquake that 

I SMC SOCIAL C<?MMISSION I 
class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­
seismologists said registered 3. 5 on the Richter scale. No injury 
diana 46556.

1 admission S 1.00 I
or major damage was reponed. The tremor was felt for three to 
The Observer is a member of the
five seconds, with the center registering at Cheesquake State 

Associated Press. All reproductionPark in Matawan. It was felt in the New York City boroughs of 
rights are reserved.

l------Carroll Hall SMC ·--~--J
Brooklyn and Staten Island, and in Middlesex, Monmouth and Union counties in central New Jersey on Tuesday. 
ccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc 
the Bubby RICh Banb

Nurse skis to patients 
CHICAGO (AP)-Nurse Linda Elsik took up cross-country skiing 
In ConceRt 
as a hobby several years ago but never thought it would come in hand}' in gering aroung Chi~o to take care of patients. Elsik is one ofeight nurses employed hy Nonh Side Home Health Care, 
monbay, ~es. 5 

Inc., a private non-profit organization. Since heavy snow has closed many Chicago side streets, she drives her car as close to 
maRian h1qh School Spm

each patient's home as she can on main aneries. Then she dons skis and glides across side-street snow drifts. Most of Elsik's 
131 t S. loqan ffilshawaka, lnO.

patients are on Medicare. She provides medication, therapy and even food when necessary. 
~oR •nroRmatJon
t1ck€ts $5 abvance 
call 259-5257

Weather 
$6 at OOOR 
cccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc

Snow diminishing to flwries this morning and becoming panly cloudy during the afternoon with highs in the upper teens. 
Increasing cloudiness and cold tonight. Low around 5. Chance for snow tomorrow. Highs around 20. Chance for snow decreasing to less than 20 percent today. 

UMMER PRDCiRAMS· 


LDNDDN 
May 22 -.June 22 
3:30 pm--COMPU1ER COURSE, "introductory tso," continues, 115 CCl\1B. 
Travel in lraland. Scatland. 
4 pm--SEMINAR, ''photochemical transformations of sydnones and related studies,'' by prof. m. v. george, nd, con£. rm., RAD. 
Enraland & France
LAB. 

6:30 pm--MEETING, north dining hall committee of the food advisory board, NORTI-1 DINING HAll COMMISSARY. 
Rame 

7 pm--I.ECIURE, ''abortion-is it a ri~ht to choose? medical and social aspects,'' by dr. and mrs. Jack c. wilke, MEMORIAL 
.luna 2D -.July 1!1
UBRARYAUD. 

Trav•l in Franc:•. a...manyI
7 pro--WORKSHOP, "work values/decision making," by dr. kathleen rice, STAPlETON LOUNGE. 
Switz•rland and Italy
8 pm--BASKETBAIL, nd vs. xavier, ACC. 
Cia•••• available in Rrt:. Ecanamic•. H•tary.
8 pm--LECilJRE, "change!; in catholic ecclesiological posi­
Italian & Lit.rature
tions,'' by michael fahey, ARCHITECn.JRE AVO. 
8 pm--REcrfAL, katy elsey--piano, LITilE nmA'IRE SMC. 
Far mare infarmatlan can praf. Black at SMC-4!148 




·----------------------------------------------------------------------~· 
_______________.._..._.....___.._.______________ 
The Observer Thursday, February 1, 1979 -page 3 
~,_~-----­
• 
·Law students 
present final 

argunients tn • 
Moot Court 
on Friday 

by Diane Wilson year of law school for their News Editor outstanding ability in appellate advocacy. This is the art of The Final Argument for the presenting an argument in front twenty-ninth annual Moot Court ofan appellate coun to determine will be heard tomorrow night at if there has been a legal error 
8:30 p.m. in the Center for made in the case. Continuing Education. The fmal argument in front of Patrick Dore, executive direc­actual appellate judges is the 
tor of the Notre Dame Moot culminatton ofa three-year learn­Court, e~lained that the partici­ing process of appellate law, pants of this year's Moot Court Dore explained. During their are third year law students who second year of law school, participated in national competi­students have the opportunity to tion last fall. This year's partici­participate in a curriculum in pants include M. Ellen Carpenter which academic credit is given from Bennington, Vf; Paula J. for participating in Moot Court 
Fulks from Kansas City, MO: arguments. Rosemary F. Gill, from Bay City In a coun,
moot Dore ex­MI and James G. Wiehl from plained, the case being arguedDamascus, MD. 

has already been settled. It was 
The participants were chosen · either settled out of coun or 

during f:he spring_ of their second -decided before a judge. Dore 

======================= added that in an appellate case 
the winning party at the lower level is the respondent, while the 
Amtrak proposes cuts 
party who lost at the lower level IS the petitioner. In this case, Gill and Carpenter will act as counsel

m passenger servtce 
for the petitioners, while Wiehl 
INDIANAPOliS (AP) -Rail passenger service would be dis­continued for most of Indiana under a U.S. Department of Transportation plan to restruc· ture the nationwide Amtrak sys­tem. 
The plan which would be effective Oct. 1 but is subject to congressional approval, drew im­mediate criticism from Gov. Otis Bowen's administration. 
'Three of the five Amtrak trains now serving Indiana· the north­south Floridian, the east­west National Limited and the Cardinal -would be eliminated. That would mean no rail pas­senger service for Lafayette, Bloomington, Richmond, Peru, Marion, Muncie, Indianapolis and Terre Haute. 
The lakeshore Limited, pro­viding service from Chicago to New York and Washington through South Bend, Elkhart and Gary, would be maintained. 

The Broadway Limited, also connecting Chicago, New York and Washington, would be re­routed through South Bend and Elkhart rather than Fort Wayne. "It virtually wipes out rail passenger service in Indiana. It amounts to the end of Amtrak as a truly national rail passenger · system,'' said William J. Watt, transportation adviser to Bowen. 
Watt said the recommendation to shut down the Cardinal, once named the James Whitcombe Riley, was no surprise "but the Broadway Limited and the National limited are really dis­turbing." 
He said new equipment was recendy purchased for· the Broadway and the National, and deteriorating roadbed was being upgraded along the entire National line from New· York to Kansas City. 
Bowen recommended in 1977 that service on the Floridian be suspended indefmitely until track and equipment could be up­graded. . . 
Sen. Brrch Bayh, D-Ind., chair· man ofthe Senate Transportation 
and Fulks will be the respon­dent's counsel.

Appropriations Sub-committee, said Amtrak will maintain The case that is being used this another train between Chicago year involves the Natural Fun and Detroit through Gary and Foods, Inc., and the Parents' 
Elkhart and also will keep its Ad-Hoc Committee for Ch\)d­heavy overhaul facility at Beech ren' s Television as petitioners Grove, southeast of Indianapolis. against the Federal Trade Com­
Bayh withheld judgment on the nussion (FTC) as respondent. It DOT proposal, promising to concerns unfair trade practices in ''give close and thorough exami­directing advertising for _products nation.'' He said it at least was a · that promote tooth decay at good framework for Congress to children that are too young to work within. recognize such products' poten­
Bayh said the restructuring is tial harm. necessary because ''we have not 
The specific questions involvc:d been/etting the kind of service include: Whether the rule-making
hope for when Amtrak was procedure exceeded the FTC's 

created back in 1971, and it is statutory authority or violated equally clear that the federal till 
due process of law, whether the is not bottomless and cannot 
continue unending and ever­increasing subsidization of a syst~?t that gets worse by the day. 
He added, "Ifany state feels it 
is imperative that Amtrak service 
slated for elimination be re­
tained, the state could assu...rne 
part of the subsidy burden and 
the trains could continue operating.'' 
Parking lot snow removal 

FTC properly found televised advertising of sugared products to children to be an urifair and deceptive trade practice and whether the rule promulgated by the FTC violated the petttioners' First Amendment right to free­dom of speech. 
The judges for this year's event incluoe Associate Justice John Paul Stevens, Chief'udge Cornelia G. Kennedy and Chief ) ustice Arthur J. England, ] r. 
Stevens is a member of the United States Supreme Coun and was appointed in 1975. He is a member of the Illinois Bar, and received his A.B. from the Uni­versity of Chicago and his J.D. from Northwestern University. 
Kennedy, the only femal chief judge in the country, is chief judge for the Eastern District of Michigan. Appointed in 1970, she graduated with honors from both the University of Michigan and the Michigan Law School. 
Emtland is the chief justice of the Fforida Supreme Court. He was elected to the Supreme Court in 1974 and graduated with high honors from the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce of the University of Pennsylvania and 
the  University  of Pennsylvania  
Law School.  
According  to  Dore the Moot  

Court tries to have a U.S. Supreme Coun justice come every other year to hear the cases. Some justices that have come in the past include J u<12e Harold Leventhal for the u:S. Court of Appeals and Justice Harry BlaclaDun. 

ATTENTION 
Toronto-NO Exchange Students 
Mandatory meeting tonight at 6:30 
in the Lafortune Utfle Theatre. 
Agenda and matchups will be distributed. NOTE: we leave Friday, Feb.2 at 7am from CCE and arrive at ND. Monday,Feb5atll m 

Applications for SENIOR BAR Managers 
1979-80 can be picked 
-continues 
Because of the number of complaints by students, Security, ·and Maintenance, the Student 
Government has come up with a 
plan for snow removal in D-1 and 
D-2. All students must move 
their cars to lots C-3, C-4 and 
C-5 by 8 a.m. Saturday. 
Students are then asked to 
move their cars back to D-1 and 
D-2 by 2 or 3 p.m. because the 
C-3, C-4 and C-5lots are needed 
for the basketball game that 
night. 
Students needing jumper ca­
bles, shovels or any other form of 
assistance should stop by the 
Security Office. Security will 
enforce the plan and Main~ 
tenance will clear the lots 
Saturday morning. 

The ND Student Players announce tryouts for 
,JDQUBL£~ EXPQSI~~~ ~ 
-it(?~ 

A comedy by Jack Sharkey Tues. and Wed., Feb. 7-8 7:00pm 
basement of Lafortune 
• -----­

The Observer Thursday, February 1, 1979 -page 4 



In response to students concern Saint Mary's retains gynecologist 
by Pam Degnan 

In response to a campus-wide appeal, the services of gynecolo­gtst Dr. Samuel Bechtold have been retained by · the Saint Mary's Health Services for the spring semester. 
According to Student Body President Gail Darragh, Dr. Bechtold will be available in the student infirmary in Holy Cross Hall Thursdays between 10 a.m. and 12 noon on the following dates: Feb.l, Feb. 8, April 5, 12, 19, 26, and May 3 and 10. 
The need for a gynecologist on campus has been a major concern of many students for the past several years. Positive action was finally taken last semester when a questionnaire dealing with the possibility of a resident gynecologist was issued to the student body. 

Seventy-four percent of the responses agreed that they would definitely use these services. Also an overwhelming majority concurred that payment for any type of service rendered should be based on individual need. 
A standard $5 fee will be charged for any type of routine examination. Billing is confiden-

N.D. STUDENT UNION Presents 

and special 



EXILE
guest star 

Thutsday Feb 22 8pm Notte Dame ACC All Seats Reserved ---­
18.00 & 17.00 
Tickets on sale at ACC Box OHice 
Produced b!l SUNSHINE & CELEBRATION 
tial and fees will be paid through 
the Student Billing Office. 

Bechtold requires students to call for an appointment to insure proper care and attention to each patient. He is also willing to visit the dorms 1:0 answer questions concerning the various services that are accessible on campus. . Student reactions concerning this new health program are mixed. "It's good to have a service like this on campus. It's much easier to take advantage of these services than to look up a doctor,'' one student stated. Other responses include having a preference for a woman gynecol­ogist. 
Dr. Bechtold is a res~cted member of the South Bend community. Although he has retired from his gynecology prac­tice, Bechtold still teaches ob­stetrics in Memorial Hospital. Each Tuesday morning, Bechtold offers his time to Notre Dame students. 
''There has been a general concensus voiced by the majority of the students for gynecological services on the campus. Due to the efforts of several students this year and in previous years, we have these services available. It is now up to the students to take advantage of them,'' says Darragh. 

In the Mid East 

Iran conflict stalls peace talks 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
of a Middle East we might see in a few years' time. " 
Whatever happens, it is not likely to be translated into a direct military threat, Israelis believe. Iran is more than 600 miles away, and Iran's Persian population -not Arab, though Moslem like them -is not expected to take an active role in the Israeli-Arab conflict. 
One official, imagining the worst possible military lineup, said that Iranian acquiescence might allow Iraq and Syria to solidify an alliance of radical adversaries on Israel's eastern front--the two enemies have al­ready indicated they are getting together. Such a Soviet tie could dominate ] ordan and threaten the conservative monarchies of Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf oil kingdoms, said the official. 
This combination -a radical wedge with Israel at the sharp end -also could challenge Egypt's claim to leadership of the Arab world. But this is in the cloudy future, and Israel faces immediate problems more direct­ly related to Iran. Among them are: 
The Israel-Egypt peace talks, difficult at best, are stuck as Israel resists the Egyptian-Amer­ican desire for a strong link between the peace treaty and progress on the Palestinian ques­tion. The Shah of Iran supported the peace process and was seen as the northern link in a chain of pro-Western countries in a future peaceful Middle East. The shah's potential successors have indicated they are not as pro­Western and arj likely to dis­t~~e themselveS from the nego­oanons. 

The result, Israelis fear, is the loss of the shah's moderating influence, plus more instability in a region that desperately needs quiet for peace to succeed. 
The loss of oil from Iran, which had supplied at least 60 percent of Israel's energy needs, seems certain. Israel claims to be well prepared, with substantial reserves and an American guarantee to make up any short­fall for the next five years. But Washington has made no pro­mises about /rices, and Israel has stiffene its demand to receive oil from Egypt after Israel leaves the Suez Gulf oil field it developed off the occupied Sinai 
[continued on page 9] 

• • • Ch.ecking 
[continued from page 2] At American National Bank, an average balance of less than $150 
also incurs a $4 per month service charge, while Frrst Bank charges $3 per month on accounts with less than $200 minimum balance. 
The Task Force also surveyed the Notre Dame Credit Union which it be 1i eves is a conven­ient and inexpensive alternative to the area's commercial banks. The Credit Union, a non-profit institution, operates a checking system which has no service charges or minimum balance reqUlfements, _and which pays interest on funds on deposit. 
"For the students," remarked a Credit Union administrator, "the Credit Union is a great advantage. We're close to campus, the only cost is the printing of the drafts and once a member you're always a member.'' 
According to the Credit Union, it now holds over 2000 student accounts and recently has been adding 20 or 30 new. members a day. "With the new mcreases at St. Joe Bank,'' pre~cted the administrator, "we wtll see an influx of new members.'' 

,.. j 
.I 
( 
~-·--------------------------------------------------~'\~~­
~--------~ -,-~~­
• 



Editori~~-s 
Unite and abolish parietals 
The motion to abolish parietals which unanimously .~;assed the Carroll Hall Council lase week is one of the first posLcive steps taken by the students to change a University regulation in recent memory. This motion does not at all affect the University regulation on visitation. At the very least, it will demand complete explanation of the rationale behind the parietals regulation. The University will only see fit to respond to this challenge to their archaic ruJe, however, if other halls adopt a similar proposal. 
Last October, the Campus Life Council proposed to reduce a parietals violation to a hall offense. The proposal was formally presented to Father Van Wolvlear, Vice-president of Student Affairs, who postoned the decision to the last possible moment and then rejected it. The CLC then appealed that rejection to University Provost, Dr. Timothy O'Meara. This appeal was possible because ofa new system which was instituted last fall. Recently, O'Meara also rejected the proposed parietals change. Although it may be still possible for students to change ruJes through the administrative process, it is at best a slow and tedious means by which to achieve change. 
The vote taken by the Carroll Hall Council directly challenges the University's authority to set such ruJes and re£U].acions and demands a response. If enou~h students call roc their hall councils to act m a similar fashion, the administration will be forced to make a University-wide statement on the rationale behind this issue. 
All hall presidents derive their power from their elected position within the hall and their responsibility to hall residents. This responsibility is shared by the hall council. Carroll Hall has brought their challen¥e to the attention of the HPC. It is now each hall president s responsibility to represent the viewpoints of the hall residen~ If the hall presidents do not follow through with Carroll Hall's challenge to the administra­tion, the abolition ofparietals will fail. And what is worse, the hall presidents will rail the students. 
WASHINGTON---FBI Director Wtlliam Webster told news­papermen the other day that, with the reco~nition of the People's Repubhc of China, the United States could become over­run with Chinese spies pretend­ing to be students and diplomats. 
The FBI is charged with keeping an eye on foreign spies in the country, and Mr. Webster has a right to be concerned. If only 2,000 Chinese envoys plus 500 students were permitted to enter the country in the first year, the FBI would have to keep an eye on each one. This would require three agents working 24 hours a day to watch every Chinese person. 
The Federal Bureau of Investi­gation could handle this number, but in a few years the People's Republic might insist on sending over tourists at the rate o£ a million a month. Then the FBI's resources would be strained. 
To complicate matters the United States has a lar~e popula­tion of Chinese-Amencans who are loyal citizens of this country but who could easily be mistaken for People's Republic Chinese. Then ·we also have Taiwanese students who are violently anti­mainland China but who could be 
RA applicant protests cut 

Dear Editor: 
The following incident is being related here so that no one in the University community will ever have to suffer. from similar prob­lems again. 
Yesterday, 36 RA applicants from a total of 56 eligible applicants in Keenan Hall were sunply cut from funher consi­deration by the current hall staff. These 36, who were all eligible, were never interviewed nor given the opportunity to discuss their applications with any member of the hall staff. Of the remaining 20 applicants, 6 will be selected to be RAs. 
Numerous members of Keenan Hall feel that this action is tactless and dangerous; es­pecially since applicants were told that they would be objec­tively interviewed perhaps with some assistance from outside the hall. Granted, there are many applicants (56) but there are also many days (28) until the deadline for picking RAs. Perhaps two panels of four members each could have interviewed the candi­dates at ten minutes per candi­date in less than 5 hours, before intensive interviewing of 15 or so surviving candidates. Cenainly the future of a hall is too imponant and the alienation of nearly half o_f next year's Keenan 
P. 0. Box 
seniors too dangerous. 
Whatever happened to demo­cracr. and openness? Let's hope it still survives in some halls. 
Name Withheld 
Students abroad 
•
vo1ce concern 

Dear Ed£tor: 
We areJ'uniors who are study­ing abroa in Ireland thisdear. OnJanuary 21, we returne from our Christmas holidays to be greeted by housing contracts, 
DOONESBURY 
IT$ JliSTA 
fq3AJ_ -m18U!E AND7J.18R l 70 'f'HC Ff?efJXM-SRJN~ .. LfNIN6 FECPt.E EH, PHReD? 
.. (F~, 
I


Thursday, February 1, 1979 -page 5 

The Chinese are Coming 
which I assume everyone on campus also received. It stipu­lates that we, despite livmg thousands of miles away, are to be ueated exactly the same as the other students. In other words, if we turn in our housing contracts and then change our minds, we will be fined $300. Also, we must have our contracts in by February 2; which is putting a lot of faith in the Irish postal system. 
The truth is that we would love to move off-campus, but it is im~ssible to look for housing while living in Ireland. We've tried to keep in contact with friends about livin~ arran~e­ments, but nothing ts deftnlte, especially this early in the year. Thus, we have been given vir­tually no time to make a proper decision and return the contracts on tune. This whole system 

followed for months before the 
FBI found out where their {>9liti­

cal sympathies were. 
There has to be an answer to 
the problem. 
One solution would be for 

President Caner to work out a 
deal with Vice Premier Teng 
when he arrives in Washington 
this month. At the moment, in 
the first flush of recognition and 
goodwill, Teng might go for the 
arrangement. 
All mainland Chinese diplo­mats and students would be required to wear dark blue Mao jackets and basgy pants when they went out m public in the United States. Anyone caught wearing an alligator spons shirt would be assumed to be a spy and deponed back to Peking with the next shipment of Coca-Cola. 
Chinese students would be required to carry their little Red Books to classes at all times, so the FBI undercover professors would not confuse them with anti-Communist members of the Chinese-American communities. 
To further separate the good Chinese and those involved in cloak and dagger operations, the FBI would post wall posters in every Chinatown in the United States. Those who stopped to 
struck us as being so unfair that we laughed when we read Mr. Price's letter. 
It seems to us that since most of the students studying abroad are sophomores, few, if any, would move off campus next year. Those ofus that ace juniors and want to live off campus next year could probably be counted on one hand. With extra people moving off-camus next year, it is going to be more difficult than ever to fmd off-campus housing, especially for those of us who have no ways of looking until the summer. The smart thing for us to do would be to cover both bases by turning in a housing contract and then notifying the housing office if something is discovered by our friends during the semester. The $300 fme, however, is rather steep, and most of us can not afford to pay 
art buchwald 

read the posters would be con­
sidered suspect and wonh follow­
ing. Those who ignored the wall 
posters woul~ be eliminated from · further surveillance. 
One of the bi~gest problems 

the FBI faces m its counter­
espionage effons is how to 
discover what the Red Chinese 
are sending back in the way of 
information to the mainland. 
This would require the bureau to get court orders to open every Chinese fortune cookie going in and out of the United States. In order to keep the Chinese from finding out that we were reading their fortune cookies, the FBI would have to addded funds from Congress to build its own fortune cookie factory where the mes­sages could be replaced after bemg studied. 
Additional money would also be needed to break the codes in the cookies. "You are going to have a nice day'' could really mean "U.S. Navy is building new Cruise missile underneath Pasadena Rose Bowl'' or '• A man who has friends will never run out of toothpaste" could mean ''Soviet defector was caught in massage parlor last night with expired American Express 
d .. 

car . 
It goes without saying chat, while the FBI will have to watch mainland Chinese in the United States, the CIA will be sending their own agents to China. 
This is where President Caner can make a deal with Mr. Teng. In exchange for ~~~!' s people
wearing only Mao · orms, the American President will promise that the CIA people will wear only Brooks Brothers suits with button-down shirts and striped ties. In this way both countries will be able to save vast sums of counterespionage money by not wasting time following the wrong people. 
(c) 1979, LOS ANGELES TI:MES SYNDICA1E 
it. Exempting the handful-of people in our predicament from the fme is hardly asking too much. In fact, we see it as the only fair thing that could be done. 
Tom HJJIJer 
Alan Himebaugh 

by Garry Trudeau 
IT'S A/.SO 1105 JIAirtl~n~ITT:n';
DREAM Q:)ft: f.RYV1~ I fA.'. 


All& YOIJ 'OJ CRAZY! rn.EifTLA5T! ~~ 
KllXJING? MTHAT A­HANIJ IS FINAL.-YrJJ HAf)AIIJT 
we A/J?£AI)I MJ4Y, 8EfFOile LY 1HE IJVI)fS-a= MPPJN6 
GOT' aiR 5/HANOLI< 
RINGS! sees YOtJ!
'!/!f~ IJP 7l) /X). 
\ I 


either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD reponed as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Di.ane Wilson
_The Observer_ of 
as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray 0 'Bnen Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ John Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chris Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Langhen_(/s Photo Editor .......... ,Doug Chnstian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor . . . . . . . Rosemary Mil. s per published by students of t_he Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor ............ Phil CaciJ_e) Production Manager . . . . . . lvfardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Samt bers of the community, and the free Saint Mary's Editor ...... FJ/en Buddy Business Manager ........ john Tucker Mary's Col1ege. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam· News Editor . . . . . . . ...... Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rud:y reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 
I 
,,1: 
I 
II
I. i 
I, 
I 
j 
~ 
,, 
I \ 
I 
I 
. 
I 
'1 
l 
l I ', ' 
II 
I: 
I , ~ ; I • 
l 
t· 
i 
( 
__......_...........,_,._...___________ _ 


Features 
Thursday, February 1, 1979 -page 6 
Old College: The Place and the People 
"Give it the Old College try." Well, at Notre Dame, particular effort is being made by a group of young men to ~o j~st that. These young men Cl!e thinking about the priesthood, and this year therr home is the Old College. 
The Old College is tht; .original University ofNotre Dame. Bwlt m 1843, it is the oldest building on campus. It was personally designed by two Holy ·Cross religious, Brother Francis and Father Sonn, whom you might remem­ber founded the University of Notre 
Dame. 
Old College is a stone building. It is 
located on the main road, at the 
southeast corner of St. Mary's Lake 
(behind the Architecture Buil~ng, or 
behind Morrissey Hall). Ons.mally 
constructed as a multi-purpose bwlding, 
Old College served as the university 
(classrooms), student. ~ormitory, !ffid 
dining hall. Its versatthty has certamly 
been an asset since then. At various 
times, it served as a bakery, convent for 
Holy Cross Sisters, farmhouse, house of 
studies for teaching brothers, head­
quarters for the Holy Cross Mission 
Band, retreat house and residence for 
visiting priests. 
In 1972, the University experienced a 
severe housing crisis. Old College was 
utilized to house 25 freshmen. Under 
the auspices ?fFather J~ Flanigan, Old 
College acqurred a sobnquet that year: 
"Father Flanigan's Boys Town." 
Atmospherically, Old College is a nice 
admixture ofpeace, gregariousness, and 
music. Everyone mingles well. Br. Paul 
Loos, the Assistant Superior, greets all 
newcomers from his second floor office 
with a cordial, "Hello, how are you, 
friend?' ' Musically, one can choose 
from the progressive jazz do~nating the 
second floor to some classtcal pteces 
competing with the pulsating rock of 
Springsteen on the third floor. 
Extensive interior refurbishing took 
place during the summer of 1977. 
Brother Clearence Breitenbach, with the 
assistance from Br. Paul, Mike Couhig 
(Moreau Seminary), Mike Burrell (Sarin 
Hall), et. al., did a sparkling job. of 
transforming the then haggard looking 
interior into its present decor. Old 
College today, through their efforts, is 
one of the nicest residences at Notre 
Dame. 
The building is a self-contaiJ?t;d. three-story unit. It has all the ameruttes ofany regular house. There is a kitchen, living and dining rooms, and eleven bedrooms. Br. Paul lives in the bedroom once inhabited by Fr. Sorin_. Queried about recurring rumors of Fr. Sarin's "ghost" appearances there, or rattling chains, Brother Paul said: 
"Lately, there have been fewer di~­
turbances, but sometimes I wonder if 
those rumors are rumors.'' 
So much for legends. 
Fr. Tom McNally is the Superior at Old College. He is ably assisted by Br. Paul and staff member William Dohar, a Moreau Graduate presently pursuing studies in medieval history. There are six candidates this year: four juniors (all transfer students) and two freshmen. 
The program conststs of daily commuruty prayer, as well as Mass in the nearby Log Chapel. It is designed to allow each candidate one year to explore their faith the university and the Holy Cross co~munity. At the end of this 

I' 
Chris Stewart, Features Editor 
r,ear, each one has hopefully discovered if the priesthood.is a ~i~ble road worth traversing. If thetr dec1s1on at the end of that rime is afftrmative, they move to Moreau Seminary for further mtellectual and spiritual training. . 
Community life at Old College ts supplemented by other ~ctivities. <;>n Tuesday nights, there ts. Co~u!llty Dinner, whereby each candidate mv1ted friends to partake of_ a home cooked meal. Thursday everungs are spent at Moreau Seminary. Mass and dinner are shared thus facilitating Old College'scomm~cation and identification with the larger religious formati~n_ mem~ers. 
Each candidate has a spmtual direc­tor. The spiritual_ director functio.ns as sage, guide and fnend to the can_d!~te, giving him the necessary cnt1c1sm, perspective, advice and love that he needs. 
In addition, each man has an indivi­dual weekly chore, deemed "obed­ience.'' There are two retreats each semester. Retreat masters are invited to deepen the seminarian's awarem;ss of his unique opportunity to live the life of a potential Holy Cross priest. 
Seminarians are strongly encoura~ed by the staff to integrate themselves mto the larger university life. This is done in various ways. Members of the Old College are active at The Observer, Knights of Columbus, the Rugby team and various intramural squads, WSND­radio, ALSAC (Arts and Let~ers Student Advisory Committee), tutonng and the ] ustice and Peace Center. Through these outlets, the individual gifts, talents and potential of each candi~ate is maximized to its fullest. Stagnation and spiritual sloth are not problems at OC, because its members have too much energy and too many diversified interests· to allow their talents to atrophy. Consequently, Notre Dame is enriched by their selfles~ contrihutions, and the Holy Cross community 1s strengthened 1 through their efforts. 
Overall, the year at Old College is one of seeking and exploration. It's a year in which each person determines whether he will advance to the next stage, Moreau Seminary. In addition to the emphasis on spiritual growth, the main thrust of the program at Old College is to develop a balanced life and person­ality. Of major importance is an openness to the immense diversity, complexity and beauty withir:t the univer­sity, ourselves, and our envtronment,. 
The guys at Old College are typtcal Notre Dame students. They take full advantage of everything the university has to offer. They major in anything they choose, go to ballgames, concerts, parties, date, _play sports, and ge;t mvolved in varmus clubs and orgaru­zations. 


This does not exactly fit the stereotypical view of a guy who is socially withdrawn, finds sports dull, girls disgusting, and whose tdea of a good time is sitting in a dark, corner conjugating Latin verbs. 
The ministry today is as dynamic and diverse as the people it serves. The minister, in order to effectively serve the people, needs to be an experienced, well-rounded, and thoroughly educated individual. The priest of today doesn't just say Mass, hear confessi~ns, and sit in his room contemplatmg his navel. 
.It's good to see those considering the priesthood aren't either. 



The Observer -Features Thursday, February 1, 1979 -page 7 
... Midpoint ... Midpoint ... Midpoint ... Midpoint ... Midpoint ... Midpoint ... 
...Old College ...Old College ... 


One philosopher's truth is another man's blasphemy. 



See, seminarians are cool, too. But
Photographs by John Macor 
bohemian? 

------·-~~------------------­
The Observer Thursday, February 1, 1979 -page 8 
_, 


ENGINEERING SENIORS 
McDonnell Douglas Corporation is one of the Nation's leading engineering firms. Our goal is to continue to excell by developing state-of-the-art methods and equipment. 
Together with other engineers, you can contribute to the development of Advanced Electronic Systems and Mechanical Systems by using the most advanced techniques. 
You have spent several years to attain your degree spend 30 minutes with a McDonnell Douglas representative and let us show you how to turn that degree into a career. · 
The McDonnell Douglas Representa.tive will be at 
your campus on: 
. iol" 

Wednesday February 7, 1979 
Make an appointment through your Placement Office ·to talk to us about Your future. 

f 
\ 
..-ftta·.~····";;;,.~~~-.·.~~-'-.._------~-__.:__.. ---~-------...............---·-··----_____... 

The Observer Thursday, February 1, 1979 -page 9 

Dr.)ack C. Wilke and his wife, Barbara, nationally know spokes­men for the Right to Life move­ment, will present an illustrated talk, ''Abortion: Is it Right to Choose? Medical and Social Aspects,'' in the Memorial Library Auditorium at 7 p.m. tonight. The program is spon­sored by the campus Right to Life group, Student Union, Campus Ministry and the Departments of 
[continued from page 1] 
University and ) aleh Square. Officials at ) orjani Hospital near ) aleh Square said one person had died of gunshot wounds received at a demonstration. 
Witnesses said they saw at least five ambulances speed away from the university area, and a Sp<?kes­man at Pahlavi Hospital satd two other persons were wounded. 
The witnesses said troops in armored vehicles opened fire after crowds near the university accused them of supponing the shah. More than 40 people have been killed in the university area in the past week. 
Gen. Abbas Gharabaghi, who heads Iran's 430,000-man army, said . the military display was a routine troop movement, but 
IN CONCERT! 
Biology, Philosophy and Theology and isopento the public. 
The Cincinnati couple has pre­sented programs in scores of American, Canadian and European cities in recent years and are frequent radio and television guests. They are the authors of several books, in­cluding Handbook on Abortion, The WonderofSex, SexandLove 
and others. 

... troops 
soldiers told bystanders it was intended to impress the populace with the army's strength. 
Bakhtiar has warned of ''agents and enemies'' posing a threat to the ayatullah's life. In his broadcast, he said ''every drop of blood shed ... will rest on the shoulders of those who plot and plan a confrontation between the army and the people who are trained to misuse the peaceful spirit of this government.'' 
Erratum 
Prices in the Student Union record sale will be $4.19 for new releases, not $3.49 as reported in Tuesday's Observer. 
produced by 

Ai~en Management ~n association with River City Records 
HARRY 


CHAPIN 
This Fridav! 8:00 pm Morris Civic Auditorium -South Bend 
good seats are srill available at River Citv Records, 50970 
U.S. 31 Norrh (3 miles north ot campus) and the Morris Civic box office. Call, 277-4242 for funher info 

The program will include. a lecture-slide presentation, ques­tion and answer period and an optional film of an actual abor­tion. A reception with refresh­ments will follow in library Lounge. 
Town G-Country 
EXCLUSIVE UMIIED ENGAG FRIDAY-FEB.2 NO PASSESAUOWED 


REDUCED ADMISSION TICKETS ACCEPIED AIL SEATS $4.00 
TIMES2-4-6-8-10 
RICHARD 
,_ 



WARNING: Thia Picture Contains Harsh And Vwy Vulgar Languq And ~v Be Conaic*ed Shocking And Oflenaive. No Explicit Sex Or Violence Ia Shown. 
Rel•sedby 
SPECIAL EVENT ENTERTAINMENT 
I 
CONCERT ALBUM AVAILABLE ON I WARHER BROS. RECORDS AND TAPES 
€l 1117!1 SPECIAL EVENT ENTERTAINMENT, AU RIGHTS RESERVED 
... Iran 
[continued from page 4J 
Peninsula. 

The oil issue has become a must for Israel in peace negotia­tions. "We are close to most of the world's oil, but only countries far away will sell it to us," an official complained, emphasizing that Israel wants to avoid as much as possible paying to transport oil across oceans when there are surpluse~ next door.. 
Iran's community of 80,000 Jews is the focus of discreet Israeli government effons, so far not very successful, to encourage them to come to Israel and escape a possible pogrom if Moslem fanatics gain the upper hand. 

I ·I 
I
WM£ 
I 
I l\N1J~lim·@J I 
ljugt >5 mtn.. ·~/tom campu~ 
c.AQQ headg a~e tuftned to the 
iKNJ<&Jlm·@J 
once a yeaft gaQe on 
* uUe"~g cpetrnm * 
put gome body itt yru/l Milt {;ott that gtteo.t Qook l 
JJatultaQ uUon-cpetun jtmt S22.SO tteguQott sgs.oo 
QCX'.oted Qowelt QeveQ o~ Queen'g CagtQe 545gg tJeltltace ~ane 277-tbcJf 
THE RUGBY CLUB RAFFLE $1.00 per chance First prize: round trip air-fare to Ireland for two March 10-25 (six) Second prizes: a Corby mug filled free for a week -winner must be present to win the second prize 


drawing has been changed and will be held at Corby's Thurs Feb I at 12:30 
coRsy's bRaw1nq spec1al 
~0~ thURSbay 3 bRafts/$1.00 2 C311S 0~ shots o~ schnapps/$.50 hamms/$1.00 



Fox's 


DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
JEWELERS SINCE 1917 Town & Country and Concord Mall, 10-9 Blackmond 's, daily, 9 :30·5 
-Special 15% Disco"nt Cn 

~~·------------------~--------------------------.. ·-·
r
I< 
'' 
I 
l The Observer Thursday, February 1, 1979-page 10
I ~ 
ACIOII 43. Ornamental 16. Cruy metal tip 20. Staftll 
c 
44. Rabbit 21. Gloa over
1. Read hastily 

Doctors question Darvon's use
DOWN and eover up, R
6. Smoker's 

I 
I . 
f 
• l 
rwquest 
10. Italian lake ll.Cofl'eeurn 
13. 
Dill 

14. 
Gave one's word 


18. Resounded 
17. 
Cover the interior of 

18. 
Sc::ary word 

19. 
Lonc-lastinc 


21. 
Cried 

22. 
Tiny amount 

23. 
Partora ream 

24. 
Burna with ateam 


27. Nei~ 
28. 
Unitaof electric power 

29. 
Lure 

30. 
Badly 

31. 
lmacines to be true 


36. Southern State: abbr. 
36. 
Poet Whit­man 

37. 
Mournful ery 


88. Objective 
40. 
Jason's ship 

41. 
Played for time 


d. Forward movement 
1. 
Startle 

2. 
Sir Arthur -Doyle 


a. Chance 
4. Accuud'a plea: 2 wds. 
6. Yaeht basin 
6. 
Amid 

7. 
Volume 

8. 
106, in an­cient Rome 

9. 
One past his prime: hyph. wd. 


11. 
Rends 

12. 
Unwrap qain 



u faults 
23. Send by 
0 
treicht 
24. Rapid 
s 
26. Soprano, 
Maria-
s 
28. Sout.hl!rn capital city 
w 
27. Squandered 
0
29. Missile 
31. Luxurious fur 
R
32. The Magnu 
D 
33. 
Fierce cat 

34. 
Slant 


s 
36. Self-control 
39. Quip 

WASHINGTON (AP)-The pop­ular pain reliever OarVon ap~ears no more effective than aspJllll, is easily abused and its abuse has been implicated in a number of deaths, a group of doctors and drug expens told a Senate panel yesterday. 
"I would seriously questt~n whether the use of Darvon 1s good medical practice at au,.' said Dr. Charles G. Moenel of the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, 
:MN 
Moertel was one of six wit­nesses who appeared before the Senate Small Business Subcom­mittee on Monopoly to discuss the use of propoxyphene--the chemical which is the basis for Darvon, the trade name used by Eli Lilly and Company, and for several other compounds mar­keted under other names. 
Eli Lilly officials did not testify yesterday but in a statement the comQany said Darvon had given relief to millions of persons during the past 21 years and there was no evidence that propoxyphene products ''have ever caused death or serious injury when used as recom­mended.'' 
It also said a study of propox­yphene-related deaths showed ''most of the deaths involved use of propo~hene at doses far in excess of their therapeutic levels and in combinations with alcohol and other drugs.''· 
One witness, Kenneth A. Durrin, director of the Office of Compliance and Regulatory Affairs of the Drug Enforcement Administration, told the Senate subcommittee that ''Propoxy­
phene is an abused drug and its 
abuse can and does lead to 
phr.sical dependence. 
'Propoxyphene ranks third 

behind heroin and alcohol (in 
combination with other drugs) in 
terms of drugs associated with 
deaths" in DEA reports from 
medical examiners, he added. 
Durrin said DEA repons from medical examiners indicated )02 deaths in 1975 and 528 in 1977 were related to propoX}'I>hene overdoses. He said suicide was indicated in 44 percent of the cases. 
Moenel told the subcommittee 

that a study by the Mayo Oinic 
more than a decade ago showed 
Darvon significantly less effec­
tive than aspirin in eliminating 
pain and also less effective thafl 
over-the-counter drugs such as 
Tylenol and Datril. 
He said similar studies by other researchers backed up the Maxo studies. 
' Based on our results, we would have to conclude that if Darvon alone has any .Pain-re­lieving effect, this is trivial and simply doesn't match up to common, inexpensive over-the­counter drugs,'' Moertel said. 
Dr. Sidney Wolfe, director of the Health Research Group, said Lilly "pushed Darvon 21 years ago as equally effective as cOdeine, Pon-addicting and safer than codeine. All three state­ments are f!Ise, yet millions of Americans have used this expen­sive and weak painkiller, thousands have died as a result of its toxicity and Lilly has reaped well over one-half billion dollars from its sales." 
The hearing was called as a result of attempts by Wolfe's group, which was founded by Ralph Nader, to have the federal government either ban ~ of propoxyphene as a pain reliever or reclassify it, making it more difficult to get. 
Da.rvon once was the most popularly prescribed pain rehever although its _popularity has slipped somewhat m the past two years. 
SMC prepares for College Bowl 
FJ/enBuddy Saint Mary's Editor 

The first round of competition begins tonight to select the College Bowl All Star Team that will represent Saint Mary's at the regionals in March. 
The All Star Team will . be composed of four staning mem­bers and four alternates, accord­ing to Mary Laverty, College Bowl coordinator. 
Presently, four of those posi­tions are filled by the team members who won the intramural competition last November. These four women, known as "Pilger's Prodigies," are Patti Field, Lisa Fulks, Cathy Loftus and Mary Beth Spear. Although they are automatically members of the team, they are not guaran­teed starting positions. The remaining four positions will be filled by students who were on 

Yesterday's Answers 

the second-and third-(>lace teams from the November mtra­
'. Molarity by Michael Molinelli mural competition. 

1broughout the next two weeks there will be four separate ses­sions of competition. during these sessions, three ~es, thirty minutes each, will be played. Twelve women, includ­mg the members of "Pilger's Prodigies,'' will form different teams for each session. Based upon how the women work together in teams and their strong academic areas, the Col­lege Bowl coaches will decide on four starters and four alternates. 

College Bowl questions cover a wide and varied subject area. According to Richard Pilger, a College Bowl coach and chemis­try prOfessor at Saint Mary's, the material ranges from music com­posers to astronomy, concentra­
• • • Hall Councils 
ting on the liberal ans. For this reason, having four starters with
rcontinued from page 1] 
strong backgrounds in four dif­
I 
"We're willing to do somethin~, but we don't know exactly what to ferent academic areas is gooddo,'' remarked Lyons Hall pres1dent Leta Homco. 
College Bowl strate~.
Ellen Dorney, president of Badin hall, clarified Homco's statement
I When the competttion series is 
by explaining, "We need a more concrete way of dealin~ with the completed and the All Star Team 
I s1tuanon." However, "I hope that all the dorms vote on 1t, then we has been chosen, team members
I would act on it too ... we have nothing to lose," she added. will continue to practice. TheyDespite the ''wait and see'' stance taken by several halls, other 
will compete against members of
I campus student officials predict that Carroll's action will be embraced the Colle~e faculty and admini­
by other dorms. 
I stration m preparation for the 
"They (the students) all agree that something's got to be done," regionals.
I observed Marty Paulson, Dillon Hall president, who added, ''So many other universities have done it (abolished parietals). Why should
I Notre Dame be ten years behind?" He predicted that resolutions backing Carroll's move will be passed by every hall council, adding, ''I
I expect it to be close to unanimous all around. '' ... new era
I AI Mesa, former president of sorin Hall, also predicted success for the passage of resolutions supponing Carroll's actions, commenting, [continuedfrom page 1]I Arw album or rapewit~ thl~ {;OU(X)f Urnit 1. Nowthru. r('h;,. lR ''I'm sure that when the hall councils bring it up, it will be accepted. '' in our interest, and a globally
I Not good on cut·dut5, imports or orh!t sale item...;;,. . •..· ·· .......·.· ··· . · · 
On the other hand, many students apparently consider the Carroll engaged, confident and stron~1 ND/Smc .. checks acceptedfotupto incident to be ridiculous. "I think it was kind taken as a joke," America is in China's interest.' observed Kevin Dolan, Keenan Hall President. Two of the accords signed
1 . JlO.OO ov•t putch.nae amoun~ ! ..· ''As soon as they find out that the rectors and hall staffs are going to yesterday were negotiated since
1 16,000 td~~ma. ()nd tqp•• tq ~~qqse<·.ll•.rQPt enforce it wanetals) over there (Carroll Hall), they'r~ going to say Teng arrived here Sunday. Oue 'forget it," assessed Dolan, who added, "I don't think people are would allow China to buy a giant takiflg it (the parietals "abolition'') seriously." atomic particle accelerator for
1 ·" Peach crat.s OV4ilabl~ ~:·;·.r~·············· 
Several other hall presidents agreed with Dolan's appraisal of the high-energy fhysics experiments situation, explaining that their hall councils' reactions were marked by at a cost of 100 million to $200 
River Cirv R«i1tds .·· <....... i i!' !. ·•·•••··••••·•••••••···.· I:. .·. disbelief and ridicule. American officials said
million.
'>097() u.~. ;1 Nonh. } .mHes ffl>rrh .of ~te.u.a!TJ(~;o; 
Darfler admitted d: :u, fc: the action taken by Carroll to apand into a the accelerator, to be built in
Opt·n 10·W7 <tavs ~ wh·k .. . . ..•..•. ;:·,t·i·,;o;.::;mrm:·\tM 
campus-wide movement, ''There will have to be a unified decision. If Peking, would have no direct217-4242.·... ·....••. ·. •

.________............,=~=~··=;; maybe ten halls got together, it would be quite an experience.'' militarY application. 
.....~~-----------------~·..--------------------------------------~( A 

The Observer -Sports Thursday, February 1, 1979 -page 11 

Irish fencers prepare to defend national title • • • West 
by Paul MJJ/aney Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's two-time de­fending national fencing cham­pions will put their strins of 85 consecutive dual-meet VIctories on the line Saturday when they invade Angola (Ind.) to open their 1979 season. 
Coach Mike DeCicco's fencers also will be in quest of their fourth straight unblemished season, as the reigning. cham_ps will o~n up against Wisconsm­Parkslde, Case Western Resetve, Oeveland State, Milwaukee Area Tech and host Tri-State this weekend. 
"We may be less talented this year going into the season,'' admits DeCicco, ''But that doesn't mean we won't be as successful in efficiency in the long run." 
The Irish swordsmen will be missing the depth which has blessed them over the past two title years. Missing are, among others, 1978 epee gold medalist Bjome Vaggo and 1977 foil gold medalist and 1978 runnerup Pat Gerard. Vaggo returned to Sweden, his homeland, while Gerard was one of four top-notch Irish lost to graduation. 
'Dlat doesn't mean, however, that DeCicco won't be without talent. Foremost on the list of returnees is senior Mike Sullivan, twice a sabre gold medalist and three times and All-American. Known to Irish fencin~ loyalists as ''The Bionic Arm,' Sullivan has lost only two of his 143 collegiate bouts, making him the top fencer of all time at Notre Dame. 
''When Sully is on his game, there's not a guy in the country who can beat him,'' notes DeCicco, beginning his 18th season at the Irish helm. "He's really not describable. He is, however, the leader of the best one-two punch in college sabre.'' 
The second half of the that one-two punch is junior CJu1s Lyons. Lyons, from Berwyn, Pa., compiled a 30-10 mark last year, his first season after transferring from Holy Cross .Junior College. Junior Greg Armi will most likely get the first shot at the number three spot this weekend, while senior J.P. McGuire and sophomore Tom Valdiserri await anxiously in the wings. 
The epee squad was perhaps the hardest hit this year, losing captain Bill Kica and stalwart John Strass in addition to Vaggo. Seniors Mike Carney and Mike Schermoly, and junior Tom Cullum will be counted on heavily this year. Those three have only participated in a combined total of 78 collegiate bouts, however. 
In the foil depanment, Gerard and Mike McCahey, an Irish representative in the national 
tournament  in  1975  and  1976,  
won't be easy to replace.  But  
senior  Steve  Salimando  and  

junior Andy Bonk start the 
season with plenty of experience, and both already rank among the top 10 foilists in the Irish record book. Freshman Jim Thompson and sophomore Ray Benson will battle for the third posicion. 
[continuedfrom page 12) 
Trials." 

Maybe ) ay can talk to Rick Wolhuter. He seems to know a little more about Notre Dame and getting into the Olympics. 

Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Feb. 4 Feb. 5 Feb. 6 Feb. 7 Feb. 8 
Kee
Grace 


LeMans 
Holy Cross (ND'

Zahm
7:00 

Holy Cross (SM 
Carroll
Stanford 

Augusta in Hoi Cross Badin­
7:45 Cavanaug 
Flanner 
Breen 
Regina 
Dillon
8:30 

·Howard 
·Phillips Fisher
Walsh 

McCandless 
Pangborn

9:15 Alumni 
Farley 
Sorin 
in Fisher 


10:00 Morrissey St. Ed's Lyons in LaFortune
1979 Mardi Gras Dealer School Schedule Theatre 

,..' 

! q l 
Thursday, February 1,1979 -page 12 
Trips Irish, 5-2 

Bowling Green too much 

by Paul Mullaney Asst:Stant Sports Editor 
If Bowling Green's hockey team knew that last night's game at the Athletic and Convocation Center was only an exhibition affair, they sure didn't treat it as one. The third-ranked Falcons handed Notre Dame a 5-2 setback before 3642 less-than-emotional spectators. 


The visitors from Ohio jumped into a 3-2 lead late in the second period and never looked back, giving the Irish little opportUnity to make any final-period rally. 
"They're a good forechecking 

., club,'' commented Notre Dame Coach "Lefty" Smith. "They've got a very fine all-around club, 
( f Two-mile relay team heads West 

----P~-·~·----------------~~~--~£--~-----&.............2 
l 
by Mark Perry 1 ' I ~ Asst:Stant Sports Editor 
National exposure for the Notre Dame track team is not a common thing. Perhaps the most famous thing to come out of Notre Dame track was Rick Wolhuter, Olym­pic champion and world record holder in the 880-yard run. 
But last year the Irish made another jump into the national spotlight, as their two-mile relay team placed first in the Kansas Relays and second at the Drake Relays. 
For this reason the Notre Dame .1 two-mile relay team, which 
' changed slightly this year, has been ranked nationally and has received a bid to compete in· the Los Angeles Times Invitational, the first time any member of the Irish team has been to this meet. 
"It is one of the biggest indoor meets of the season," said Irish Head Coach Joe Piane. "USC, Cal. State at Los Angeles, and many outstanding track clubs from the Los Angeles and San Diego area will be competing in the meet. 
''This meet should give us some national exposure,'' Piane added. ''Nowwe will be seen not 
I :~ ' h only in the midwest and east, but
'. 
also on the west coast.'' 
Only one member of the two­' ; mile relay team which broke the record last year is gone, as . '. ~ Bill Allmendinger graduated. He 
i) will be replaced by a freshman,,. Rick Rodger, who along with
I,
I. sophomore Chuck Aragon and
I: 
juniors Pete Burger and Jay Miranda hope to keep the Irish in the national picture for at least two more years. 
For the newest member of the team, it is quite a jump. Rick 

I: Rodgers, who comes to Notre 
.I 
Dame from Wichita, Kan., will be running the half mile for only 
'' 
., the second time in his track career, the first time coming at
\ i 
.' the Purdue Invitational earlier 
~ ~, 
in the year. 
I 
I't: "I'm really nervous right now," ' :I Rodgers admitted. "I have 
' ~ , 
something to prove to myself, and also I'd like to help the team as much as possible.'' 
Rodgers comes to Notre Dame with an impressive set of creden­tials. Racing out of Kapaun-Mt. Carmel High School, he placed first in the state in the quarter­mile two years in a row, with a best of 48. 5 seconds. But racing in the half is going to be a 

\. challenge for him. 

"I ran at 1:55 at Purdue, and I would like to equal that or do better," Rodgers said. "I did a lot of distance work over Christ­mas, and it should help my wind a lot. If I can keep up the pace and stay in the thick of things, we should do well." 
Piane has Rodgers leading off this Friday, which should help his confidence. But teammate Pete Burger is confident that Rodgers can do well. ''He has impressed me very much, since he had to beat out a lot of good runners to get into the relay. This is a new race for him, but he has taken it well." 
The race is nothing new for Burger, however. Before coming to Notre Dame from ] esuit High School in Beaverton, OR, he placed fourth in the state in the half-mile, and was a valuable mef!Iber of last year's record setung team. 
"We are hoping to qualify for the NCAA's this /ear," Burger said. "We misse by only a few tenths of a second last year, and we thought we were good enough to place. 
"'ibis will be oill first time out, so I hope we can do it right away," he continued. "A 7:33 should get us in, and a 7:32 would be just fine." 
Running the second leg for the Irish will be Chuck Aragon, who is coming off a very successful freshman year. In addition to helping the two-mile relay team, he competed in the NCAA Indoor Championships, and also ran for the AAU National ] unior Team that toured Russia and West Germany last summer. 
Aragon comes to Notre Dame from Los Lunas High School in New Mexico, where he built up an impressive record, winning the state -cross-country title two straight years and placing first in the half his senior year, en route to being selected a high school All-American . 
The trip abroad over the sum­
'' . . ,,
mer was quite an expenence, Aragon said, "running in high caliber meets like that." But even with the international com­petition, Aragon still gets the pre-meet jitters. "I keep telling myself that I shouldn't be so nervous, but for me the buildup is the same whether I am running against. the Russians or against someone else at the ACC. •' 
"I would like to see us (the relay team) qualify for the NCAA indoor meet," Aragoncontinued. "As far as personal goals, I would like to get some good times in the 800-meters over the sea­son." 
Running the all-important an­chor leg is ] ay Miranda, and according to Burger, this is the best place to have ] ay. 
''] ay usually does it for us, because he is such a tough competitor," Burger said. "We were in third place going into the final leg at Kansas, and he passed two Kenyans from New Mexico and West Texas State to win. When]ay goes, we usually do well." 
Miranda admitted that "being the last runner, there is a little added pressure. If you're a little behind, your teammates are look­ing to you to make up the gap. And if you're in the lead, they look to you to hold it. But we all have our little pressures." 
Miranda, who went to West Technical High School in Cleve­land, OH, placed second in the half mile in his junior year and won state in his senior year. ] ay has set similar goals for his college career. 

"My main goal is to qualify for the NCAAs, '' Miranda said. ''I qualified last year, and made it to the semi-finals. I hope to reach the finals this year. Also with the Olympics corrung up, I would like to hit 1:47.4 in the half, which is qualifying time for the Olympic 
[continued on page 11) 
with good defense, very quick forwards and excellent goal­tending.'' 

While back-up goalie Brian Stankiewicz did receive ample support from the Falcon defense, he was more than troublesome for the Irish. He turned away all but two of Notre Dame's 25 goal-bound shots. 
Stankiewicz wasn't the only stalwart in the nets last night, however. While regular Irish goalie Dave Laurion observed the action while standins in the last row of Section 8, Junior Greg Rosenthal did a commendable job while at the Irish helm in the first two periods. 
''I thought Rosenthal played excpetionally well tonight,'' of­fered Bowling Green Coach Ron Mason. ''He had some super saves in the beginning of the game. I thought to myself, here we go with a guy who's not played a whole lot, having one of those nights in the spotlight.'' 
Rosenthal turned away the first 13 Falcon shots on target before Mark Wells opened the scoring 15 minutes and 28 seconds into the opening stanza, finding a large opening in the Irish net to Rosenthal's left. 
"Don't fau'lt our goaltending for the loss tonight,'' msisted Smith. "That didn't lose it for us. Our defense did. We can't cough up the puck the way we did and expect to win it." 
What Smith did expect to see, however, finally came at the 1:08 mark of the second period, when sophomore center Kevin Hum­phreys tallied to knot the score at 1-1. 
But the Irish fell behind again 
only two-and-one-half minutes 
later, when defenseman Mike 
Cotter, assisted by Andy Crow­
ther and Tom Newton, lifted the 
visitors back on top, 2-1. 
The Irish, who verified last night that Bowling Green holds a late-game lead better, perhaps, than anyone else in the country, did manage to even things up before the Falcons could muster any significant momentum. 
Sophomore ] eff Brownschidle, assisted by Ted W eltzin and Bill 

.. 
Rothstein, drilled home the tying goal at the 12:09 mark of the period. . From that point on, however, the evening belonged to the first-place Falcons of the ~e~tral Collegiate Hockey Asso­ciation. 
] ust one minute and 14 seconds prior to the second-period horn, Steve Dawe deflected home]ohn Gibb' s shot from the point, and the orange-dad Falcons were on their way. 
''We seemed to get it together a little more than Notre Dame did in the third period,'' understated Mason, whose club now supports a 26-4-1 season mark. 
The Irish were outshot, 17-8, in the final period, as two of those Bowling Green attempts found their way past freshman Mark Schores, who replaced Rosenthal in the crease to start the final 20 rrunutes. 
One of the third-period goals was a total fluke, as Schores, making a save on a shot from the point, deflected the puck high mto the air. With virtually nobody able to locate the puck, Falcon left wing George McPhee poked it home once it returned to the playing surface, at 5:22. 
A power-play goal by Gibb at 
17:05 closed the scoring, as the Irish dropped their 12th game against 13 wins and one tie. 
Smith was not totally upset with ~e defeat, however, as many Insh reserves were given the opportunity to see more action than they have in recent games. In fact, Notre Dame opened with its fourth line of left wing Dick Olson, center Brian Burke and linemate Kevin Nagurski. 
"Our fourth line exceeded my expectations,'' smiled Smith. ''They played really well, and were only on the ice for the first goal while still seeing quite a bit of action." 
It will be back to the regulars this weekend, however, as the Irish return to WCHA competi­tion against Colorado College. Both Friday's and Saturday's games will tace off at 7:30p.m. at the ACC, as the Irish try to improve their fourth-place, 12-9­1 league mark. 





