---~-----~---~---~-----~-------~--~------.--­
, , , 'Townies:' -page 4 

VOL. XIV, NO.ll an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY SEP1EMBER 11, 1979 
'CLC proposes changes in hall party; keg policies 
by Michael Onufrak Senior Copy Editor 
The Campus Life Council passed a proposal last night which will permit Notre Dame residence halls to determine their "own policy relative to the use of kegs in and only in 'party' rooms.'' The proposal was submitted by Keenan hall rector and CLC member Fr. Richard]. Conyers and amended by newly-elected CLC parliamentarian Mickey Turzai. 
According to the CLC constitution the proposal must now be approved by Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vice-president for student affairs. Van Wolvlear said his decision will be forthcoming within the next two weeks. 
Should Van Wolvlear reject the proposal, under the CLC constitution, it may be appealed to the University provost, and ultimately the Umversity president. Van Wolvlear would not comment on the proposal's chances for approval. 
Conyers'ori~inal proposal had stated that new guidelines for use of ke_gs Within a given hall be drawn up by the rector and his hall staff. Turzai's "friendly amendment" added the hall council to the decision-making process. 
If eassed by Van Wolvlear, several problems concerning legal liabllity and transportation of kegs onto campus ~ill be worked out by Student Body President Roche and Dean of Students ] ames Roemer. 
The CLC also passed a proposal which would abolish line ~, part 2 from the University "party" room guidelines. This portion ofthat document, ifabolished, would allow for parties to be held in "party" rooms durin~ the week. At present, parties can only be held in the hall ' party" rooms on Friday and Saturday evenings. 
Roche noted that this proposal was submitted not to promote large keg parties on weekdays, but to make ''party'' rooms available for more conservative forms of socialization, such ~ small birthday parties. 
A proposal to amend the CLC bylaws was also .Passed which will brmg, these bylaws in line with changes m the CLC' s make-up made last spring by the Notre Dame Board of Trustees. These changes increased the CLC' s numbers from 17 to 19. Added to the CLC were the Student]udicial Co-ordinator and Off-Campus Commissioner. 
Besides the two new members, the CLC consists of the vice-president for student affairs, six rectors, four hall vice-presidents, the SBP, a repl·esentative from the Hall President's Council, a representative from Student Union, the Dean of Students, and two faculty members. 

[continued on page 3 1 
Over troops in Cuba 


High ranking campus figures discussed the use ofkegs and other policy ma#ers at the CLC meeting Monday nig"ht in the basement of Grace Hall 
ACC violence 
Officials conclude investigation 
by Tom Hay Senior StaffReporter 
The University yesterday con­cluded its investigation into alleged violent conduct by ACC officials against T-shirt ven­dors, according to Thomas Mason, vice-president for busi­
ness affairs. Mason declined to di~uss details of the investiga-

U.S., Soviets begin negotiations 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Unitedstates and the Soviet Union yesterday b~an what State Department officials sax might be a protracted series of negotiations over Soviet troops 
in Cuba. . 
Secretary of State Cyrus Vance and Soviet Ambassador .Anatoly Dobrvnin. who returned to Wa&hington ·Sunday tore­present the Soviets in the talks, scheduled their first meeting on the issue yesterday afternoon. 
Dobrynin has been on vacation in the Soviet Union and has not been in Washington since the announcement last month that the Soviet troops had been discovered in Cuba. 
Prior to his first meeting with Dobrynin, Vapce met in a closed session· on Capitol Hill with members of the Senate Armed Services Committee for discussions .of the Soviet Cuban situation. The panel also scheduled private testimon}' from CIA Director Stansfield Turner. 
There was no official word about the bargaining positions Vance and Dobrynin would 

bring to the talks, but State 
Department officials said they 
did not expect anything to be 
settled in_ the first session. 
Last week, Vance and Presi­

dent Carter both said the 
"status quo" in Cuba is not 
acceptable, but they refused to 
say what changes woulcfsatisfy 
them. 

Vance has said the administra­tion realizes that the Soviets · have had no military advisers in Cuba for many years. It is the recent discovery that 2,000 to 3,000 of them were organized as a combat unit that is a matter of serious concern, he said. 
Key members of the senate 
have been less restrained. 

Many have said the Soviet 
troops must be removed if the 
new strategic arms limitation 
treaty is to be ratified. 

That kind of pressure will make it more difficult to reach a satisfactory solution to the Cub­an problem, administration so­urces have said. 
The Soviets have largely kept 
q_uiet about the furor. Unoffi­cially, Soviet diplomats have _insisted that the troops are not 
a combat force but are advisers who have been in Cuba for 
many years. 
They say the Cubans have a right to invite the Soviets to their island, and that there is nothing in U.S. -Soviet under­standings of 1962 and 1970 that bars them. 
The State Department conced­ed the latter point last week, saying the agreements that settlea, the 1962 Cuban 'Missile crisis and the 1970 Cien-fuegos submarine base crisis covered only offensive weapons systems and not combat troops. 
A hint about the possible Soviet position emerged over the weekend when an official Soviet radio commentator made mention of the American naval base at Guatanamo, Cuba. 
The commentator noted that the United States has persist­ently refused to discuss aban­domn8 the base, which it has held smce 1903 on an indefinite lease. 
The commentator did not say whether Soviets would offer to withdraw their troops in return for American withdraw! from Guatanamo. 
tion at this time. 
"The question of possible disciplinary action is between the University and its emplo­yees," said Mason. "That is our tradition and policy.'' 
The investigative report, com­piled by Joseph Wall, director of security, probed· into allega­tions that ACC officials sub­jected T-shirt vendors to "both verbal and physical abuse') following the August 30th REO Speedwagon concert at the ACC. ­
The vendors in question were unauthorized to sell at the concert, and were therefore in direct competition with vendors legitimately contracted by the ACC, according to Michael Plouff, managing director ofthe arena. 

Mason would not comment on the ·alleged violence, although he did admit that a confronta­tion took place. "Obviously there was some degree of taking ~oods from vendors;" he said. • They were not voluntar­ily handed over. " 
Wall said that South Bend police officers were present at the ACC, but it is unclear if they were involved in the scuffle with vendors. 
According to Mason, provi­sions have been made to return 
[continued on page 2 1 

DIA predicts Kreater arms _flow into Cuba 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Defense , Intelligence Agency has predicted a "steady flow" of new weapons to Cuba, aimed at increasing the fire­power of Fidel Castro's forces. 
In a heavily censored version of a report to Congress, DIA experts said, ''The weapons could be used equally well in any arena." 
The :Pentagon's intelligence agency estimated that Russia has given Cuba more that $1.6 billion in free military aid since 1960. 
''The state of readiness of the Cuban army continues to im­prove," the DIA said. "This is because of increased combat experience in Mrica, intensi­fied training at home and delivery of a new weapons system." . 
The r e _port 'given behind dosed doors to a House Sub­committee last April and rele­ased recently, satd Russia may send Cuba bigger assault guns, mobile surface-to-surface mis­siles, interceptor versions of the advanced MiG-23 jet fighter, larger troop ~ansport helicop­ters and addit10nal ocean-gomg combat vessels. 
The censored version of the report made only indirect refer­ences to Soviet military person­nel in Cuba and said nothing about the Russian·ground com­bat brigade there whose pres­ence was recently confirmed· by the Carter administration, 
[continued on page 3] 

-----------------------r ­
-----------,.-----~--:------:----~---------­



News in brief 

Tuesday, September 11, 1979 ~ page 2 
House Budget Committee advises increased spending 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The chairman of the House Budget Committee yesterday recommended increased spending for energy., defense and anti-recession programs. _He vowed to resist any tax cut for 1980. The pac!'age outhne~ by Rep. Robert Giaimo, D-Conn., would ratse the defictt bt $10 billion above the $23 billion level anticipated just four months ago. Most of the proposed spending increas~s were blamed on lingering inflation and the new recesston. Even as Republicans pressed for a major individual and business tax cut, Giaimo told a news conference "It would be the absolute height of folly" to cut taxes at this time. "It would be a 1 disaster. 
0 'Neill contends Kennedy could have nomination 
, 

WASHINGTON (AP) -House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill contended yesterday that his fellow Massachusetts Demo­crat, Sen Edward M. Kennedy, could have the .1980 presidential nomination if ~e decided to challenge Pr~stdent Carter for it. "I don't think that he could be dented the Democratic nomination if he were to run,'' O'Neill told reporters at his daily news conference. 
But O'Neill said he is still going under the assu~ption that Carter will be renominated and that Kennedy wtll not enter the ra~. 
house price tag 
LA JOLLA,Calif. (AP) -She may be one of the worlcl's richest people, but shipping heiress Christine Onassis Kauzov says $6 million is too much to pay for a house. Mrs. Kauzov, the 22-year-old daughter of the late shippins magnate Aristotle Onassis, was shocked when she was told about that price tag for a local house during a party last week in this Southern California beach resort. ''Who could afford to pay that much for a house?" said Mrs. Kauzov, whose fortune is believed to be about $500 million. ''A boat maybe. But not a house." 
Pig manure gives added 
texture to gridiron
• 
NORTHCONWf\Y N.H.(AP)ANew York team has won the annual Mud Bowl football game, which left the players talking more about the texture and aroma of. the field than about the score. The New York Harnslammers of Holland patent, slipped by the defending champion Mount Washing­ton Valley Hogs 6-0 in overtime Sunday, in knee-deep mud that also contained a little pig manure. "lt(the manure) gives better texture and a nice aroma,'' said Bob Gnaka of the Hogs. "Playing in the mud is also a warm feeling." 
Weather 
Mostly sunny and pleasa~tTuesday. High in the l~w 80s. Fair Tuesday night. Low 10 the upper 50s. IJ?-cre.asmg cloudiness Wednesday with a chance of showers. Htgh 10 the upper 70s. 
5pm--MEETING, all those interested in playing on the 
off-campus girls' interhall football team, GREEN FIELD 
6pm--MEETING, nd sky-diving club, LA FORTIJNE BALL­
ROOM 
6:30pm--MEETING, alpha phi omega-the national service 
fraternity, ZAHM BASEMENT 
7pm--MEETING, pre-law society, for all freshman, sopho­
mores, and juniQrs, UB AUD. 
7, 9:15, 11:30pm--FILM "dog day afternoon," ENGR. AUD., 
$1 
Brown speaks in New Hatnpshire 
Nashua, N.H. (AP)-Californ­ia Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. arrived in New Hampshire yes­terday with a polttical road team that bore all the trappings of a presidential campaign ex­cept for a formally declared candidate. 
More than 200 reporters, pho­tographers and viae? and film cameramen from stx nattons were on hand for Brown's 12-hour trip to seek support for an expected bid. for .the 198~ Democratic Prestdenttal nomt­nation. 
New Hampshire is home of the nation's earliest primary ea<:h presidential election year. Thts year it will be held Feb. 26. 
Brown, 41, OJ?C:n.ed his visit with a sharp crltl~tsm of _Pres­ident Carter and hts handltng of surveillance of Cuba, where the presence of a Soviet comba~ unit was recently discovered. 
Placement NiKht moved 

Richard Willemin, director of placement, has announced that Placement Night for students in Arts & Letters has been moved from Sept. 10 to Sept. 17. 
Other events will unfold as scheduled. 
Pre-Law schedules meeting 

Tomorrow the Pre-Law Society, will hold a special mel!ting from 7·9 p.m. in the Library Auditor­ium for all Freshmen, Soph­omores and Juniors interested in law schoof. . 
Robert J. Waddick, ass't. dean of the college of arts and letters and pre-law advisor, will speak on /reparation for law school an answer any ques­tions. 
The Observer. 
Night Editor:Rod Beard 
Asst. Night Editor:Ryan 
Ver Berkmoes Layout Staff:Hilary Cle­ment, Cindy Kltros, Bill Keenan, Tem· Blazi Features Layout:K. Conelly Sports Layout: Beth Huff­
man Typists:Mary Beth Budd, Beth Huffman, Kate Huff 
man 
Early Morning Typists: Tem· Blazt~ Came Britt Ad Layout: Flo 0 'Connell, Dave wood Photographer: Jeannine Senft 
The Observer [USPS 598 120] Is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions mey be purchased for S20 per year [$10 per semester] from The Observer, P.O. box 
0. Notre bame, Indiana 46556. Second class p=e paid, Notre Dame, In­diana . 
The Observer Is 1 member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights lrl mtrved. 

In a meeting with prominent state Democrats, he castigated the president's handlin_g of the nation's problems, saymg Car­
• • . ACC 
[continued from page 1 ] 
the confiscated goods to the parties involved. "We have notified the complaintants that they can pick up their goods upon identification," he said. 
Mason predicted that the inci­dent may result i~ certain J?Olicy changes concermng secunty at concerts. ''Out of the last concert came a need for review­ing procedures for the future,'' he said. "We must decide who is to do what." 
Wall said he would meet with Notre Dame security, South Bend police, St. Joseph County police, and the South Bend prosecutor's office sometime this wee k"We will discuss our arrest authority and what our powers will be," he said. 
Wall explained that a combin­ation of Notre Dame, South Bend, and St. Joe County officers patrol the ACC, the Stadium, and Steppan Center during public events. 

_.ter tried to do too much and accomplished toe little. In addition to his scheduled 
visits with party leaders, Brown planned to attend two po~i~ical picnics, including the tradttlO!l­ally well-attended Hillsborg County event in Nashua that also drew Lillian Carter, mother of President Carter. 
Brown came amid wide specu­lation that Sen. Edward Ken­nedy, D-Mass., soon would enter the 1980 White House campaign. Kennedy let it be known late last week that his family had dropped objections to his seeking the presidency. 
President Carter has not said formally that he will seek second term and neither Ken­nedy nor Brown has made a~ official announcement of prest­dential intentions. 
Moments after Brown arrived at a Bedford hotel, he sped off to a nearby Roman Catholic church for a folk Mass. 
Erratum 
Receipts-from the St~dent Union Book Sale may be ptcked up from 3 to 5 p.m. at the Student Government treas­urer's office until Thursday, Sept. 13, not tonight as report-. ed in yesterday's Observer. 


Suck U.M. UP 
Attention all Observer Reporters .· 

Please pick up any of your stories you 
would like to have 
from last year by 
Thurs. Sept. 13th. 


.. .. ...... .....
~ 

... ~. ·~ ... . ... .........., ... ................
·~ _ ~ 
.·~·.·.·. ·.•.···••·· .•...•. ·.·.·.·~,. ·.··..·.·.;_· ....: ··~ 



Roemer appoints new bar managers 
by Stephen Sharp 
Dean of Students James Roe­mer has appointed Craig Ze­bold and Dick Wallach to fill vacant posts at the Senior-Alu­mni Club. Zebold is now the club I?ana~er , and Wallach steps 10 as 10ventory manager. 
According to Tom McGrath, the club's general manager, Zebold and Wallach, both fin­ance majors, have worked at the club as banender-bouncers since last spring's Junior Night at Senior Bar. When the two managerial positions opened up 
they expressed their interes·t to McGrath. 
"I chose Craig and Dick from the rest of the staff because they showed the most interest and were most qualified to fill the positions. They know how the bar runs,'' said McGrath. 
Traditionally, Roemer appo­ints the inventory manager in 
ion, • • said DIA analyst Nartin J. Scheina. "Oflate, however, in line with 
Stepan Center hosts 
the professionalization of the military, Cuba has been taking

annual activities niKht 
by Tncia Beaujean 
Activities Night took place at the Stepan Center last night, drawing a large number of students to a carnival-like atmo­sphere filled with information booths. All conventional as well as novelty clubs were represented. 
Activities Night allows Notre Dame and St. Mary's students to get an overall look at all the clubs and organizations open to them. ·Over 80 booths were set up with interests ranging fron non-denominational reli­gion to water polo. 
One of the new organizations is "~amers." Accordin¥. to its prestdentJoe Wheaton, Gam-
Cleveland court orders school desegregation 
CLEVELAND (AP) -·After' The group,ICitizen's Opposed" 
years of delay and vows of resistance, Ohio's largest city began court-ordered desegre­gation of schools yesterday by busing 3,100 pupils to classes. Officials reportea minor confus­sion and attendance slightly below normal. 
However, William Tonko, principal ofJohn Marshall Hi~h 10 a white neighborhood, said yesterday: s · experier;t~e ''was not any k10d of test because 
not all students were scheduled to be in class. Meanwhile, in Columbus, the second largest cJ!strict ~ Ohio, a more exte~­SI~e busing plan ente~ed Its 
thtrd day yesterday WI~ no , to 1ohn Marshall High which problems a~d a full complunent \ had more than 90 percent 
of student~ 10 class. In Dayt~n,where bus10g for desegre~atlonis in its fourth year no mishaps d. ' 
h r
ave occu e .
In Cleveland, opening days were staggered for the various grade levels, with all students scheduled to be in class Thurs­da . 
That was a 76 percent turnout at those schools. On a normal ftrst day an 85 percent attend­ance w~utd be expected he said. ' 
In Cleveland, there were mix-ups on bus assignments and confusion over the stagger~d starting schedule and one anti·· busing group urged parents to keep their children home. 
=d=e=li=ve=r=ie=s=on=s=y=st=e=m=s=co=m=p=ar=-==an=d=of=ti=e=s=w=i=th=G=u=y=a=n=a=.== 
ers'' is a referral club which will 
attempt to match panners for war games and other games of 

... CLC I -II

Wheaton's design. Another game orEanization is the Eu­(continued from page I ] chre and Rook club for strategy At last nights meeting all were present except for the facultycard game players with or representatives who have not yet been chosen. 
without expenence. 

The Board of Trustees also ruled that the vice-president forThere were as many member­student affairs and the dean of students will attend all CLCalluring approaches as there meetings and become full voting members. In the past, these were organizations. A small two members had attended every third meeting. The bylawsdemonstration by. the Twe 
were amended to allow for this also. 
Kwon Do club attracted a crowd In other business, the CLC elected Roche CLC chairman,and a round of applause. The markins the third consecutive year the SBP has been elected tosky-diving photo section at­the position. 

tempted to convince spectators The meeting, which began at 7 P..m., was adjourned at 9:15of the spons glory. 

p.m. The CLC's next meeting will be held in the Grace hallMost bOoths, however, relied 
basement, Sept. 20 at 6:30p.m.
on information leaflets alon~ 
with friendly smiles to recruit &li.JDembers. 
enrollment last year. 
. 

12:00. J9.00 pet ticket. 
The school was the scene ot 
one of the few demonstrations
d Fift d 
yester. ay. een young a u-Its claunmg .to be members .of 


Fltst come, fltst setve basis. 
the Revolu.tionary Commurust ~arty shouted pro-desegrega­uon slogans. . . 
Ohio's largest pubhc school 

Only 1 ticket per person. 
system has an enrollment of 88,000 students, two-thirds 

Miist have student ID and this
non-white. Of that total, about 26,000 pupils in 26 elementary, 


ad to buy ticket.
four junior highs and three high schools 'Yere affected by de-. segregauon, an~ only 9,500 wtll ~e bused to ~chieve desegrega­

STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE
~10n by. the tune all classc:s are m session Thursday morrung. 
to Rearranging Kids, managed to attract about 100 people, 60 of them children, to an ali-day, stay-out-of-school picnic, but the fall and the club manager in As club manager, Zebold is the previous spring. This responsible for setting up ''club summer, however, a problem night" reservations. Any arose. group or firm interview10g on 

Although Roemer had ap­campus may reserve the bar for proved Joe "Shaz" Sherer as a Monday or TuesdaY. ni~ht, club manaser last April, he and Zebold's responsibtlity Is to withdrew his approval in July drum up reservations and ad~: after learnin~ of some "irregul­
arities" in t~e Grace hall food sales operation which Sherer managed last year. "After 

appointin~ Sherer on the stre­• • . Cuba 
ngth of his food safes manage­

ment, we discovered that the o_peration left something to be [continued from page I ] desired," said Roemer. · It said that Cuba's military, 
Sherer was unavaible for com­economic, and nolitical ties with ment. the Soviet Union are "closer After interviewing Zebold, than ever'. and that deliveries Roemer approved his applica­of Russian military eauipment
tion for club manager to replace "greatly increased" in dollar

Sherer. ''I'm sure that Craig value last year. and Dick will do an excellent job "Traditionally, Cuba has had at the club this year," Roemer to settle for older systems while 
emphasized. ''They are both other Moscow client states re-well qualified.'' 

ceived more recent product­vertise specials .. He also han­dles the staff payroll, while McGrath handles all liquor and beer orders. , 
Inventory manager Wallach is responsible for keeping tabs on i the club's food sales and all · other bar supplies. 
able to those received by Mos-' 
cow's other allied states." 
In addition to Cuba's exten-
I, 

sive involvement in Africa, 
: DIA reponed "a noticeable increase in Cuban support or Latin America insur­
gents."
The report linked what it described as a "resurgence" of Cuban activity in Latin America particularly to the then-raging battle by Sandinista rebels to ovenhrow the Somoza regime
in Nicaragua. 
But it also spoke of close Cuban relations with ] amaican Prime Minister Michael Manley 
1

1 §. ~ 0 I I ~ ~ ~~ 



I l ~ ~.
I ~ .-1 
i~t!fl 
·~l ~ ~ I 
~~.. ~ I



r---;--, 
I ~ ~ >I 
I
I ~ ~ ~~ 
~ \0 rnl 
~ ~-~I ~ ~ ~~ 
~ 
I
c 
~ 


1The Observer TuesdaY, ~her 'i1, 1919 : page~-~ 
·' l 

pohce said there were no major 
10cidents~ 

· Some students spent up to an hour on rides from either the mostly white west side to the predominantly black east side, or vice-versa, in the industrial­ized Lake Erie pon city of 600,000. 
"As long as it's no problem, I'm going to stay. It's no big thing. r just want to get through school," said Elvin Towns, a black who was bused 

60 tickets fot mlch-ND game go on sale today , Sept.ll at 
~·==~---~ 
I I . • 0 1 . ·.
I' . . en.
0

1•,__,:_ ~
~.-~~­

1 ­
1 21
I m ~ I 
I; :~: . ~ 
· "" \,
1 ·] 
· 'Y" 
rn

I •.... f· 
1 

~-· • I 



---~----­

-~-~~~--~~~-~ 

Features 
Tuesday, September 11, 1979 page 4 
A Closer Look at 1ToUJnies': Breaking Away 
Life after high school can be a trying time for some people. While most prep graduates go on to further education, the college life ~ not meant for everyone. 
"Breaking Away," one of the suprise movie hits of 1979, cer:tters o_n the lives of four teenagers 10 thetr first year out of high school, and their attempts to sort out their lives in a college town. 
Based on a screenplay by Steve Tesich, a graduate of Indiana Univ­ersity, "Breaking Away" was filmed in and around the campus of Indiana University. The film focuses on the lives of the 'cutters', a name given the "townies" in Bloomington, Indiana because many of the adults in the town worked cutting stone from the nearby quarries when they were younger. 
The main character is Dave, played by Dennis Christopher. Because of hts fascination with bike racing, Dave imagines himself as an Italian racer, the best in the world. He transforms himself into an Italian, talking in Italian at home, f?laying Italian music, and even shavmg his legs like the Italian racers do. 
Needless to say, Dave's actions disturb his parents quite a bit. Dave's father (Paul Dooley), a former stone cutter and now a used car salesman, is especially concerned, worried that his son is going to turn out to be a n0-good bum. · Dave's mother (Barbara Barrie) is more concerned about what Dave's fanta­sies are doing to her husband's health and to the family. 

The relationship between these three characters provides some humorous moments, but also gives us some of the movie's most tender moments. 
The leader of this group of "cut­ters" is Mike (Dennis Quaid), a former high school quarterback who is having trouble adjusting to the fact 
Another Step on the Stairway 
In Through the Out Door, Led Zeppelin's new album, represents 
·another step forward in their musical journey. The album cannot be compared to past Zep LPs. Zep has followed one successful album after another with "surprise" changes in sound and theme. (What other band can claim blues/rock casE:ades like "Communication Breakdown" and almost mythical t::uts like "Stairway to Heaven" and "Achilles Last Stand".) 
The album is complex, just as the musicians' talents are complex, and In through the Out Door need to be judged on its own merit. Several of the cuts are simply fun to hear, while others display subtle textures and variations which add to the instru­mental emphasis of the album. "In the Evening," opens the album, showing off the Zeppelin sound they've been exploring since Houses of the Holy. The song is basically hard rock/blues, which gives guitar­ist]immy Page ample opportunity to show off his talents. One of the world's premier guitarists, Page's searing ·solo evokes violent, vibrant images, yet he also moves smoothly into controlled, soaring riffs to ac­company the "I need your love " theme of the song. In fact, Page's guitar is often able to tell more than Robert Plant's lyrics. 
"All My Love," is probably the best cur on the album. Although the tide of the song suggests an anemic love song by Barry Manilow, the listener is in for much more. Mellow organ swells provide a soft, control­led opening to the song,but the band takes the sound and poetic lyrics further. "Should I fall out of love/to chase a feather in the wind Iwithin the glow that wears a cloak of delight/there moves a thread that has no end." A beautifully woven insturmental bridges the two halves of the song, with acoustic and electric guitars raking the lead. 
Not as vague as "All My Love," "Fool in the Rain" is a mirthful 
Michael Lewis 
number, well structured musically with fun lyrics. The story is basically 1 about a paranoi.::llover, who cherish­es his girl above all else, yet wonders if she will be true. It could be an over-sentimental piece of trach, but it's not. The young man is waiting on the corner to meet the girl, but sh's late, and his doubts begin to grow. He finally decides to wait ten more minutes before he gives up. The listener doesn't know the outcome until the final lines. ''I'll run in the rain ~til I'm breathless/when I'm breathless I'll run 'til I drop/thoughts of a fool's kinda careless/l'm just a fool waiting on the wrong block." Okay, it's not "Stairway to Heaven," but it's fun. 
The same can be said for "Hot Dog," a funny yet caustic satire of country music. A hooky-tonk piano starts the song while Page plays stereotyped county guitar licks. But Page is using just enough distortion to let us know something is up. 
Plant then ~oes into a humorous ] erry Lee Lewts imitation, and man­a~es to keep a straight face while smging lyrics like: ''I took her love at seventeen/a little late these days it seems;" and "I took her word I took it all/ beneath a sign that said 'U-Haul."' Beautiful. 
"Carouselambra" is the most am­bitious cut on the album, but suffers from two major defects. First, the son's instrumental theme changes dramatically and not always harmon­iously. Also, Plant's vocals are mixed on the same level with, and sometimes below, the horns which carry the major musical theme. As a result, the listener gets bits and pieces of almost epic lyrics, but most of them are lost to the instruments. 
Like all Led Zeppelin albums, this one must be met on it's own terms. The band has never been static, but always explores new musical hori­sons. And although this step isn't as noteworthy as "Stairway to Heaven" or the experimental Presence album, 
·it's quite pleasant, and worth the trip. 
that he fs not the star anymore. The source of Mike's frustrations are the college students, because Mike believes he is just as good as they are, but he begins to have doubts when it seems that the students are always the winners. 
The other two members of this quartet are Cyril (Daniel Stern) and Moocher Gackie Earle Haley). Cyril must contend with his father, who thinks of his son as a failure and enjoys giving Cyril sympathy. 

Mark Perry 

Moocher's problem is that he is short, somethin~ that he does not enjoy being remmded of. 
While Dave is cruising past the high school, he encounters a pretty collegt> girl, Kathy (Robin Douglass), and succeeds in convincing her that he is an Italian exchange student. He falls in love, and convinces Cyril to play guitar while he serenades Kathy outside her sorority house. Kathy's boy friend, Rod (Hart Bochner), is informed of the proceedings, Cyril is left behind after Dave andKathytake off for a bike ride, and is roughed up by Rod and his friends. 
This incident leads to a confronta­tion between the "cutters" and the college students at the local bowling alley, and c·ollege officials are forced to deal with the conflict. It is decided that the "cutters" will be allowed to have an entry in Indiana's annual "Little 500" bicycle race. For Dave, 
Mike, Cyril, and Moocher, the bike race is a chance to prove themselves at last. 
Students here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's often encounter "town­ies," and tend to look at them with some degree ofcontempt. ''Breaking Away" gives us a humorous, touch­ing, and entertaining look at what life is like for a young adult in a college town. This ts a movie worth seeing, and may give you an education that you can't find m college. 
A Low Budget Record Review 
I thought that writing €he review of 
the Kinks latest album, Low Budget, 
would be fun; everyone wants to be 
cool and write album reviews, right? 
Well it was a lot harder than I 
imagined. I'm not too sure I'm doing 
the right thing. I could quote a l~t of 
lyrics, or reveal the deep, myster.tous 
significance of the words, or act ltke I' 
know the performers and divulge 
their personal and musical secrets. 
Instead, I guess I'll just tell you what I think about the album, and see if it sounds interesting to you. If not, there's always Molartty. 
I'll admit it; I'm prejudiced. I'w liked the Kinks for a long time. Bu· that doesn't mean I can't be honest The most popular (or actually mo~r over-played) song on the album is "(Wish I Could Fly Like) Superman'' --my ftrst impression was that this was the Village People doing the theme song from the movie. The more I heard it, the more I hated it, and still do. In concert three weeks ago, the Kinks underplayed the disco aspect by adding a lot of guitar work; yet their usual over-loyal crowd sat strangely (not really) quiet. 
Now for the good news: "Attitude" leads off side one as one of the best rockers the Kinks have done in years. 
Ray and Dave Davies pull out all the stops on this one (Oops, that's a cliche, sorry) and remind the listener that his attitude can help him overcome just about anything, except maybe University alcohol proclama­tions. 
Mood shifts quickly with ''Catch Me Now, I'm Failing. " This song tells the story of one who was always willing to lend a hand, yet is rejected when he needs the favor returned. The lyrics hint that the friend in need is America, but I'm not about to start analyzing lyrics now. The saxophone work, which recurs throughout the album! is interesting, yet not over­powenng. 
Tryin~ to please everone, "Pres­sure" ts the Kinks attempt to join the New Wave. It brings to mmd the Stone's "Shattered". (Oh no, I'm 

Michael A . Korbel 
starting to drop names now, stop me, 
please), although I doubt it· will 
achieve the same cult status. I like 
the New Wave, but it's not the Kink's 
strong point. The topic is true to 
their style though, as the confusion 
and problems of everyday life is a 
recurring topic. 
After a humorous but weak song · titled "National Health", "Super­
man" 's disco beat washes out side 
one, leaving the listener a little 
confused as to expectations for side 
two. 
The title cut bring5 us back to 
realiry. • 'Low Budget'' tells the 
familiar story we know all too well, 
that of never having just enough 
ready cash to do, dress, and dine as 
we please. This was extremely good 
in concert, with Ray Davies playing 
the crowd interaction for all he could 
get. 
The weakest cut is probably • • In A 
Space", a song about being lost in 
the great big crowd known as the 
world. 
"Little Bit of Emotion" (listed on 
the cover as a new Kink's classic) 
sums up the stories ofpeople who are 
afraid to show some emotion, lest 
they allow others to know their real 
selves. This is a recurring Kink's 
theme, too, occurring in past releases 
Misfits and Sleepwtilker. 
"A Gallon of Gas" reworks the 
blues theme, and tells how coke and 
hash are easier to get these days than 
gasoline. 
"Misery" is straight forward 
Kink's, well done but not exception­
al. "Moving Picture" ends the 
album on a quasi-disco note, convey­
ing the same theme as ''Life Goes 
On" from Sleepwalker. Sleepwalker 
tells the story much better, but this 
seems to be the Kink's most import­
ant point, and they like to stress it. 
Thus ends not an overwhelmin~ly 
impressive album, but an interestmg 
one, with many different styles to 
offer. Diehard "Lola" fans may not 
love it, but the times change, and the 
artists change along with them. Life 
Indeed Goes On. 
r 
r 
r 
r 

The Observer -Features Tuesday, September 11, 1979-page-"5 
..._ 
Sue Glockner and Pete Visce,{flia roasted !he corn. 


Take your pick-nic 

Students from Notre Dame and St. Mary's had to take their pick of/ic­nics over the weeken as seniors, engineers, CILA, and even the dining halls held outdoor fetes. 
Seniors devoured over 2000 charcoal-roasted ears of corn during Satur­day's senior corn roast. The corn, roasted in the shucks, was soaked in salt water during the morning. 
On the ri~ht Kathy Hughes bites mto her ear of corn at the senior picnic.. 
Photos by Dave Rumbach 



. . '~ . . .. .. . . . ' .
~ ~ 



-·· The Observer Tuesday, September 11, 1979-p~e 6 
From $20 to $200 
Loan funds available to students 

open mon-sat-2pm-3am ?BEAT U.M.  

emergency needs during any student who has taken out a academic year.'' It was given Joan and has paid it without any in memorial to]ohn A. Morris-problems wiU automaticaUy be sey. granted loans in tHe future, 
Eric Diamond, manager of Diamond said. the Morrissey Memorial Fund, A student may borrow as clarified the provisions. "The much as he feels he needs. A student must be from Notre student who needs a bit of cash Dame. St. Mary's students are to tide him over constitutes ineli~ible. Other than that, aU sufficient and acceptable neeq, that ts needed is a current ID according to Diamond. Any and a clear credit record." student capable of repaying 
Diamond emehasized that within a month can almost be once a student fads to repay the guaranteed a loan of anywhere loan within the one month from $20 to $200. aUowed, the student wiU then Last year was a record year in have the borrowed amount, which 1,219 loans were grant· plus any accumulated interest, ed, according to Diamond. The added to his account, con-maximum amount was in­sequently making him inelig· creased from $150 to $200 ible for any loans in the future. ·because of the increasing num-
On_ the other hand, any her of loans taken out by 
students. 

AU a student has to do is fiJI out an application form from the Morrissey Loan Fund office, which is located in the base­ment of LaFortune, Monday through Friday, from 11:30 
a.m.  to  12:30  p.m.  and  the  
check  will  be  there  the  next  
day.  

Diamond added that senior accounting majors are mana­gers of the fund and junior accounting majors are assistant managers. Applications for the rositions are available in Apri. 
German Oub to holcfdinner 
The German Club will hold a dinner tonight at 5pm in the faculty dining room of the South Dining Hall. It is the first meeung for German Club members and those who wish to 
J010. 
Da.y School schedules 
•
meettnf{ 

Sr. Marita's Primary Day School will have an organiza­tional meeting tomorrow at 6:30 
p.m. in the ampitheatre in La Fortune. All students inter­ested in tutoring children bet· ween the ages of 7 and 11 are encouraged to attend. 
••• this card will let you call long distance from your room faster and at less cost than any other way. 
If you live in a residence hall, making a long 
distance call can be a hassle. 
You either have to call collect (and that costs extra), or wait in line at a pay phone with a 
. couple of pounds of change in your pocket. 
Well, there's a way around all that. Get your free STUDENT BILLING CARD from l~diana Bell. A Student Billing Card lets you make long distance calls from the privacy of your room, and at direct-dial rates. That's a lot easier and more economical than any other way. Besides, there's no waiting in line, and you keep the change. To get your STUDENT BILLING CARD just call 237-8182. 
@Indiana Bell 
. 

STYLE SHOP 1437 N, Ironwood Dr South Bend 
277~0615 
Sue, Ruthie,. Kim Armando --stylist 

mon-wed-ttl 8-5:30 tuea-thuts 8-8 pm ·~t 8-2 by ~ppt only ~~t-no ~ppt. ne.eded 
-

by Laura Vasquez 
The Morrissey Loan Fund, in use here since 1956, is once again open and offering assist­ance to students who need short term loans. 
Loans must be repayed in 30 days, and a one percent interest is due at that time. 
The $25,000 Memorial Fund is one of the few monetary grants students actually see, and once students decide for themselves how it can be put to good use. 
Provisions of the grant spec­ify it be used ''for the purpose of making loans to needy and worthy undergraduates and law students of the University of Notre Dame to service their 
.. 
~--~--~ ~ 
----------------------:---­
The Observer-Sports&ll'd 

..

California 80 64 .556 ­Kansas City 76 67 .531 3Vr Today's GamesMinnesota 72 70 .507 7 ChlcagoJMcGiothen 11-11 and Lamp
Texas 71 73 .493 9 11-8) at ontreal (Schatzeder 9-4 andChicago 61 82 .427 18Vr 
palmer 8-2), 2 Seattle 61 84 .421 19Vr St. Louis (Denny 7-10) at PittsburghOakland 50 94 .347 30 

(Robinson 7-6) · Philadelphia (Espinosa 13-11) at New Monday's~~~~~~ York (Falcone 5-12)·Kansas City 6, lnnesota 5, 14 Houston (Richard 16-12) at CincinnatiInnings. 1st game 
(Seaver 14-5)

Minnesota at Kansas City, 2nd game, San Ol~o (Owchlnko 4-10) at Los(n) ~ Anft:les ( utton 12-13)Boston 3, Baltimore 2 At anta (Hannah 1-1) at San FranciscoSeattle 5, Texas 2 (Curtis 1D-9)Only games scheduled 
•

Irish nme 
Pittsburgh 2 0 0 1.000 54 .Houston 1 1 0 .500 36 65 
Cincinnati 0 2 0 .000 24 61 
:
Wilt 

Wrestling team to meet
San Diego 2 0 . 0 1.000 63 26 Denver 1 1 0 .500 19 13 Kansas City 1 1 0 .500 38 27 Oakland 1 1 0 .500 34 47 
All students interested in joining the Notre Dame wrestling Seattle ' 0 • 2 0 .000 26 52 
· team are reJuired to attend a meeting tomorrow at 4 pm in 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
room C-14 o the ACC.

Dallas 2 0 0 1.000 43 34 Philadelphia 1 1 ,0 .500 ·33 31 St. Louis 1 1 ·0 .500 48 36 Washington 1 1 0 .500 54 53 
Rugby club takes three 
N.Y. Giants 0 2 0 .000 31 50 
Cllltril Chicago 2 0 0 1.000. 32 10 Tampa Bay 2 0 0 1.000 i 60 42 
matches .from Da.yton
Green Bay 1 1 0 ..500 31 25 Minnesota 1 1 0 .•500 35 48 Detroit 0 2 0 .000 40 58 
The Notre Dame rugby club triumphed over Dayton. in all 
Wilt 

three squad divisions Saturda" in home game ·action. The 
Atlanta 2 0 0 1.000 54 •'44 
Irish A-squad defeated the ~ yers 21-4 wi~ ~s ~y Mattoperung of pracuce 1 Ill weeks 
'tos Angeles . 1 1 0 :sao 30 33
[continued from page 8 ] 
O'Brien, Beef Connor, and Bnan Tucker. Mike lla1r addedago, and Coach Kelly amici-New Orleans 0 2 0 .000 53 68 the three conversion attempts and a field goal to round-offstartingrotationand this fall will pates a lot of work for them, San Francisco 0• 2 -0 .000 35 49 . 
the scoring. The B-squad defeated Dayton 12-0 with a try by give me a chance to look over too. Ylltlrday's Game the rvrospects," explained ''Although it is early to tell, Atlanta 14, Philadelphia 10 
) 
Andrew Orton and two ~y Ken Ros.s. Val Trinkley and Joe Witchger each added trys for the Insh C-squad to push that 
Kel y. severall of the freshmen show team to a 8-0 win over the Flyers. 
"Yet with the number of ~omise. We'll have to work on ~ames we play, as well as ndamentals with them and ( Tennis oubleheaders and other games then try to acclimate them to under less than ideal condi-our system," asserted Kelly. ND9 IUPU 0 
'Sailors to host Intersectional·
.

tions, we need a strong relief Despite the valuable experi-Singles· no. 1 Mullen def. Millar 6-4, 
6-4. No. 2 Stephan def Kiser 6-3, 6-3. 
staff as well. Thus, I'll get ence gained in fall practice, 
No.3 Walsh del. Plepenbrlnk 6-1, 6-2. 
Mter finishins second in last weekend's regatta in
input not only on the develog· Coach Kelly sometimes wishes No. 4Cronin def. Kentall 6-3, 6-3. No. 
Madison, the Insh Sailin3 Team hosts the Notre Dame
ment of a startin~otation ut that the games counted for 5 Cronin del. Rose 6-2, 6-1. No.6 
. Intersectional this weeken . Such teams as Utah and Navy
on the establis ent of a more. Obremskey def. Carbaugh 6-0, 6-0. Doubles· No. 1 H~ar-Lageay def. 
1 

will participate in the competitive regatta. 
consistent bullpen.'' "We went 9-3 last fall, and 
Miller-Piepenbrink 6-, 6-3. No. 2 
I· Any sailors interested in joining should call Phil Reynolds,There are many rookies among that sure would have looked 
Stephan-Schuster daf. Kenteii-Rose 
· or attend Wednesday's meeting at 6:30 p.m. in room 204
those remaining from the 115 nice added to our season 6-3, 6-1. No. 30bremskey Shukls def. 
O'Shag. . 

players who reported for the record!" Kiser·O'Brlen 6;3, 6-4. 
\ ' 
I 

NATIONAL LEAGUE Ellt
Baseball 
I 

, I ' ·w L 'Pa. u.'f Football JSports Briefs. 
Pl=h 15 57 .599 
Montrea 81 55 .596 1 I'. -· AMERICAN LEAGUE 
St. Louis 76 64 .543 8 NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
Ellt 

Chl~o 73 67 .521 11 
V.ndoor, outdoor ·l1'atk·to hoiJ
I AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
'
w L Pet. GB 

Phil elphla 71 71 .500 14 
Ellt I 
Baltimore 94 47 .667 ­New York 55 85 .393 3 
..

W L T Pa.'" PF PA
Milwaukee 83 60 .580 12 
Miami 2 0 0 1.000 28 17
.,

Boston 60 .571' 131ft Wilt 
organizational meeting
Buffalo 1 1 0 .500 58 33
New York 77 63 .550 t6Vt Houston 81 62 :566 ­
New England 1 1 0 .500 89 19
Detroit 76 68 .528 19Vr 
Clnc;l!'lnatl 81 63 .563 Vz 
Baltimore 0 2 0 .000 26 43
Cleveland 74 89 .517 21 
Los Angeles 68 73-.476 131 
All students .interested in participating in either indoor or ' 
N.Y. Jets 0 2 0 .000 25 31,
Toronto 44 98 .310 50Vr 
San Francisco 63 81 .438 18'/r 
outdoor track this year are required to attend a meeting today 
San Diego 61 83 •424 
20W: 'Cleveland 2~0 1.000 52 
at 4 p.m. in the Athletic and Covocation Center auditorium . 
Wilt 

Atlanta 55 87 .387 25Vr' ~ 

for Rent Newly Decorated House, close to Notre Dame, 4 Bedrooms, furnished, 111 E Navarre St. Call at K-= Flower & Gift Shop 233-2232 or 272 . Notre Dame Ave. Apt. for rent. ~0. $77.50/month. Call Chris 283­or 233-6284. Apartment for Rant $100 rebate offered ­Apt. 3C N.D. Apta. Ask for Bob or Dave, 283-1791 Apartment for Rent $1 00 rebate offered -A£L 3C N.D. Apts. Ask for Bob or Dave 2 1791, 1789 -11.03 Grace Hall. fWanted Ride needed to Cin. -Day. Area this Friday. Tim-8164• Roommate wanted: Completely fur· nished Apt. Can have ~our own room, Notre Dame Apts. Call 169, 8251  room apt. near campus. $137.00 per month. Call 232-7610 after 5:30p.m. Part Time (3 nltes) and full time work available, all positions needed -evenings • Ap~ly In ~rson -Nicola's Restaurant, 809 . Mlc lgan St. Close to campus-Dishwasher, usboy, pizza maker, clean· up & su8rrly person -(this Is afternoons) Talk to na. For Sale Stys Tickets Main Floor for Sale or trade for Michigan tlx. Call Ron 4614 or Karen 4-1-·4437. Student/Faculty Book Sale: Library Con· course, September 13-14, 10:00 a.m. • 5:00 p.m., s,rnsored by Friends of the Library at N . 75 Sclrocco • Excellent condition; Many extras; $3,250-287·1729.  Will trade 4 G .A. Michigan State tlx for 2 Southern Cal. G.A. tlx. Call: 232-6667. Have to have 4 GA tickets for Michigan St. Call Rick 8698. Desperately need 4 GA tickets to Michl· gan St. Call Greg 1523. Need 2 tickets for any home football game; preferably Oct. 27. Will pay through nose. Please call1978. If I don't get 2 GA tlx to NO-USC I can't go home till '82. Please help! 4-4008. Oesperatel~ need 4 GA tlx for the Navy Game. Ca I 4629. Need Mich Tix. Call Tim or Nick. 233-6249. Desperate! Need two GA Michigan State tickets! Call Jane 6372. Oes~rately need four to six GA tickets for lchlgan State, willing to paJc $$$$$. Parents will disown me If I on't get them. Call1002 or 1736. Money no objet for 2 G.A. USC tlx. Call Larry at 232-ro84. .  CASH FOR YOUR STASH* I NE~D TIX FOR MICH* PURDUE* MSU* TECH $USC. HELP MICK 1212. Urgently need 4 Purdue tickets. BigBucks. Call Martie 232-5238. Wanted: 1D-12 GA tickets to Geor81a Tech or Navy games. Can trade 4 A South Carolina tickets. Call Eric. 1384. Need 1 GA or Student ticket for Georgia· Tech. $ Joe 8670. Need 2 G.A. USC Tickets. Call Tom. 1222 Need 2 GA's for USC. Will make deal, 277·4267. Purdue Tickets • I need 1 or 2 GA's. 8782. Please help me~et 3 or 4 NO -Purdue tickets by this rida~. Thank you -I'll give a fair price. Jo n -1209. Will p~ $60 for two adjacent USC tickets Call ark 1478. Have.2 M.S.U. GA's. Will trade for 2 Southern Cal GA's. John 6334, 277 Dillon.  Loveya, TTTfrom the RLD (Cathy, Jill, and Sherry) Hyper-I never knew nothing could be so much fun. Thanks for everything. Psyched. Guy and Bob: Thanks for the great tennis match. How about 11 :00 next Sunday? The Senior Class Officers wish to thank those who worked at the Senior Corn-roast. Agood time was had by all. Winner of 6 Academt Awards...Aimoat Largeat money groas ng movie of 1977... Juat about .Dog 'Day Afternoon Tues. &Wed. segt. 11-12, EngineeringAuditorium, 7:oo, :15, 11:30. Cookie: H=~ 21at Birthday and many more from e ank111 11 Fan. [It's also Roger Marls'l] Bo -----------------­May your birthday be a Fairy-tale come true. Love, Your ballerina  

....~ .....-..... ,. ................. ~ ..... "'· 
..... ... .. 
. -. . ' 
~. 
~ ~ 
~ : 
~~.

•.•...• .•• ..• ....• ...• ... • ..• ...• ..•••..·( ~~·'"· ,.,......, ..... f..........,.•,.• .·~ ...... .. ' ... 
-~-~ -­

Tuesday, September 11, 1979 -page 8 
Irish nine concentrate on fall exhibition season 
by BillMarquard veterans is team captain Dan Sports Wn'ter Voellinger, a senior catcher. Outfielder Mike Jamieson and 
"Usually our fall tryouts and third baseman Mark Simen­practices are very quiet because dinger should return to pack .he of the competition for positions explosive offensive punch they and places on the squad,'' did last season. explamed Irish baseball coach The pitching staff, althoughTom Kelly. fairly round, is nonetheless 
''But this fall the players have promising. Mike Deasey, Bob been really enthusiastic, pul­Bartlett, Greg Kot, Tim Hand­ling not only for people at other rich a1d Mike Kenahan, among positions but for guys at their others, all saw duty last spring own as well. if there is and should form the nucleus of anvthin~ which distinguishes a stronger pitching staff this this year's team, it's healthy fall. competition.'' "We have to have a strong 
With these optomistic words, 
[continued on page 7]
Dr. Kelly embarks on his 5th fall season as head mentor of the Notre Dame baseball team. And optomistic he should be, for the Irish are returning 23 
Women split
players from last year's squad, wh1ch finished 14-19 dudng the regular spring schedule. 

week-end

Although the fall games are all exhibitions and do not figure t • into the team's record, Coach 

enntS Opener
Kelly still sees the autumn games as valuable, particularly Under new coach this season. by Mark Hannuksela 
''With so many players return­Sports Writer 
ing from last year, it makes fall practice more competitive this This weekend, the Notre year. Whereas in the past we Dame women's tennis team

SMC volle..yball opens season 
had a lot of new peole to work opened their 1979 fall season by with, most of this)'ear's crew splitting a pair of matches, for the team's five home stranger to the volleyball coun are reasonably familiar with our losing the opener 5-4 to De­
by Kate Ht~ffman 

events. Included in the home herself. She brings with her a system, which is a major advan-Pauw, then coming back to
Sports Writer 

matches is an eight-team tourn­list of credentials ·which in­ta~e.'' record a 9-0 whitewash of 
Under the leadership of first­ament, which will. be held on cludes participation in nine ' Although we are naturaHy IUPU. Saturday, October 13. Particip­national tournaments, the Jun­concentrating on fundamentals, On Saturday, visiting De­
year coach Erin Murphy the ating teams include Bethel, ior Olympics, and some exper­we seem to have more time this Pauw, who finished second toSaint Mary's volleyball team is Benedictine, Indiana Tech, ience on the international level. fall to work on situational the Irish in last year's statepreparin_g for its season opener IUPU-Fon Wayne, Nonheast­Murphy had some encourag­baseball: cutoffs, backing up, ch~mpionship tourna~ent,this Friday night at Vincennes ern Illinois, Southwest Michi­ing fmal words about the young base-running and the like," gamed .revenge by takmg twoUniversity. The Belles, how­gan, St. Joseph's College, team. "I think everyone will explained Kelly as he prepared of ~ee d~uble~ matches afterever, won't take with them an Notre Dame, and Saint Mary's. be suprised," she said. "Vol­his charges for the 14-game, s_ehttmg SIX smgles matchesabundance of experience. 
M~hy, who is also Assist­leyball is a very competitive 5-doubleheader month-long • With Notre Dame. 
ln spite of their lack of ant Director of Athletics and s~n and Saint Mary's will be fall schedule. ' The deciding match w~ ~irdexperience and a very young Recreation at SMC, is no nght up there on the top." Heading the squad of season doubles, where Lynn Withamsteam, Murphy has high hopes and Maggie Wilder took iden­for the squad. "It is hard to tell tical 7-5 sets from Paddy Mul­the outlook so early," she said, len and Sheila Cronin. Until"but I am very impressed with that time, however, Coach J ory their caliber of play, and I Segal's younger players kept


Meyersfinds goingtough
think, after a few weeks of ND in the match. Freshmenpractice to~ether, the team Linda Hoyer and Carol Shukisshould jell. ' and sofhomore Tina StephanThe list of returning players were al singles winners for the includes last year's captain, Irish, while Stephan teamed
in Pacer's rookie camp
junior Kathy Monahan, and with Cindy Shuster to recordsophomore Amy Morris, both of the lone doubles win. 
whom Murphy feels will contri­INDIANAPOUS (AP) -The evaluate Meyers' performance The f1rst decision on retaining Sunday, the Irish made IUPU bute immensely to team play. f~rst day ofpractice, held before at Hinkle Fieldhouse on the Meyers may come Thursday 
pay for their opening setback.
Also back this year for the 10 televisiOn cameras, con­Butler University Campus. ''It · when the rookie-free agent 
Using a slightly revamped line-­Belles will be sophomores Amy vinced Ann Meyers that becom­you of camp concludes. Leonard said
just shows what kind up, Segal's netters breezed to
Terry and Terry Walters. ing the f1rst woman to play in competitor she is ... She got he probably will only invite two an easy victory. In singles,Murphy feels the two ''will see the National Basketball Associ­knocked down a few times, but I or three persons to the club's Mullen, Stephan, Molly Walsh, a lot of action and will perform ation will be more difficult than 
thou~ht she competed very regular training camp which Sheila and Laura Cronin, and 
as key defensive players.' she thought earlier. welL ' -opens Friday. Stasey Obremskey all won,Mary Beth Hosinski and El­"I'm a lot slower than the 
while each of the doubles teams 
len Hoye will probably be other guys," Meyers said after posted straight set victories.
Murphy's big hitters this year. her f1rst two-hour workout at Notre Dame will again be in
Judge reaffirms sentence; 
Also returning for Saint Mary's· the Indiana Pacers rookie-free action on Wednesday, whenwill be junior Marianne Diltz. agent camp Monday. ''They're ¢ey travel to Goshen. The Included on the roster this a lot more physical than the match is slated to begin at 4

extradition seems unlikely
fall will be five freshmen with women I've played against and p.m.
Mary Laughlin leadin~ the way. I can't do a lot of the things Laughlin came as a b1g suprise against the men as I've done SAN JUAN PUERTO RICO originally were announced to her coach. "She came in as a against women." (AP) -Basketball coach Bobby when Kmght was found guilty walk-on freshman,'' Murphy Meyers, 24, signed with the Knight, back home in Indiana, in absentia last A~gust 22. 

ABC plans

stated, "She has very refined Pacers last week. However, had his six-month sentence skills already and she will be a she must earn a spot on the reaffirmed Monday after he The judge immediately issued great asset to the team because club's roster -a fact repeated refused to appeal hts conviction. an arrest order. It was not to filmshe is a very diversified play­Monday by coach Bobby Leon-of assaulting a Puerto Rican expected, however, that Puerto er." ard and Pacer owner Sam police officer during the Pan , Rico, a U.S. Commonwealth, 
pep rally

Murphy also commented that Nassi. American Games inJuly. iwould attempt to extradite all of the freshmen show sreat The appearance of the former The Indiana University coach, :Knight back to where he coach-potential and have the ability to UCLA women's All-American who said in a news conference ed the U.S. Basketball Team to A pre-Michigan pep rally break into the starting lineup. overshadowed the perform-Sunday at Bloomington,; a gold medal in the Pan will be held at 7;00 P..m. on The list of freshmen joinmg ances of the club's top two draft Indiana, that he has no mten-, American Games. Thursday. ABC-TV wdl be on Laughlin includes Maura Kahn, selections, Dudley Bradley of tion of ever returning to Puerto Govenor Carlos Romero Bar­hand to film the rally. Speakers Peg Piechel, Marianne Viola, North Carolina and Tony Zend Rico, formally was sentenced celo said after Knight was will include Irish coach Dan and Pat Zanolli. of Ohio State and six other men · by District Judge Rurico Riv­found guilty that he would not Devine, and captains Vaga 
The Belles, members of the participating in the drills and · era. Knight also was ordered to consider extradition for a mis­Ferguson, Tim Foley, and Dave AIAW, may have a' tough scrimmage. pay a $500 fine, the maximum demeanor charge. Indiana's Waymer. The rally will be held season ahead of them, but "I think she did excellent," for a misdemeanor charge. Gov. Otis R. Bowen also said he on the steps of the Administra­Murphy is especially anxious said Leonard when asked to Both the sentence and fine would block extradition. tion buildmg.
. 
----.... --...----------------------------w ·-r~·------­
. . --. 





