
' 


Carla McCaughey pays rapt attention during the National Abortion Conference held yesterday at the CCE. [Photo by john Macor] 
Hits Riviera 
Tidal wavE~ kills-eight 
NICE France (AP) · A rare height of a normal tide, but Mediterranean tidal wave packed many times the; force of along a 60-mile stretch of the re~ular waves, sweepmg away French Riviera Tuesday, kill­obJects in its path. 
ing at least eight construction workers building a breakwater jutting into the sea, police said. 
Three other workers and two persons on the beach wer.e reported missing and feared dead on the popular Mediter­ranean resort coast. An un; determined number of yachts and other pleasure crafts were wrecked at many points along the Riviera. 
The wave swept workers, cranes, bulldozers and trucks from the breakwater under con­struction in Nice Harbor. Rescuers recovered the bodies of eight construction workers and three workers were unac counted for and two were rescued, police said. . 
In the resort town of Antibes, the wave swept two persons walking on the beach into the sea and both were feared dead, police said. 
Witnesses said they saw the sea quickly sweep away from the beach, causing the water level to recede about 300 yards from the normal shoreline. The destructive wave surged back to its normal level with .tremendous force. The witnesses said the oc<;an did not rise above the 
Warns of division 

Byrne supports Carter 
CHICAGO (AP) -President Carter, ending a two-day trip to the Midwest, condemned Cu­ban military activities yesterday and expressed delight over Mayor Jane Byrne's near-en­dorsement of his re-election. 
Carter came to Chicago on uncertain political ground with the city's Democratic leaders, but he returned to Washington with a suprisingly strong state­ment .of support from Mrs. Byrne. 
Although he did not get a firm endorsement for his expected bid for another term, Carter did get Mrs. Byrne's assertion that if the decision were to be made now, she would vote for him. 

And the Chicago mayor made a pointed reference to Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, who is considering a challen~~ to Car­ter for the Democrauc presid­ential nomination, issuing a warning "to those who would divide the Democratic Party." 
Before departing for Washing­ton, the president held a "town meeting'' with residents of suburban Dolton, Ill. We assured the audience gathered in a high school gymnasium that inflation would ease by the end of the year. 
Unrest in San Salvador stirs up demonstrators 
SAN SALVADOR El Salvador 
(AP) -Police fired rifles into the 
air last night to break up an 
anti-government demonstrat­
ion, then closed off downtown 
San Salvador after protesters 
lobbed homemade bombs at a 
national guard installation, 
witnesses said. . 
Reports said one group of 
demonstrators set fire to three 
factories in the Ilopango indus­
trial park outside San Salvador, 
the capital. 

There were no reports of ·injuries. 
The new government J?re­
viously suspended constitution­
al guarantees and imposed 
martial law and a 10 p.m. to 5 
a.m. curfew. 
The reports of the bomb­throwing, which were not con­firmed officially, followed an announcement by the leftist Popular Revolutionary Bloc that it would demonstrate against the new regime, headed by two colonels. But that demonstrat­ion, by the most popular polit­ical action front, failed to materialize. 

Earlier yesterday, troops from the First Brigade of the San Carlos base, the nation's larg­est military installation and the new government's headquarters, broke up a demonstration by leftists who took over the suburb of Mejicanos. Four civilians were reported killed there, but there was no confirmation. 
Authorities said Col. Jaime Aboul Gutierrez and Col. Adolfo Arnoldo Nahano, who led the Monday night coup that ousted Romero's government, met yesterday with opposition political leaders. Mahano said Ramon Mayorga Guiroz, an , engineer, had accepted a posit-
continuedon page 10 
And he criticized Cuba as "the most highly militarized country on Earth per capita.'' the Cubans, he said, are "constant­ly interfering'' with the affair~ 
of other countries. 
Carter said the Cubans havt" 
more than 45,000 troops in 
countries where ''they have 
absolutely no busint:ss.'' 
The United States will not 
move to establish normal diplo­
matice relations with the island 
nation until Cuba ends its 
in'lolvement in the affairs of 
other ·countries and until the 
regime of President Fidel Cas­
stro releases "hundreds and 
hundreds, even thousands," of 
political prisonsers. 
Carter expressed delight at 
the level of support he received 
from Mrs. Byrne and the city's 
powerful Democratic appratus, 
calling the mayor's remarks 
"perfect." He added, "I really 
dtd appreciate it." 
Mrs. Byrne did"not come away 
empty-handed,, either. Carter 
used the opportunity to an­
nounce several programs bene­
ficial to Chicago and to Mrs. 
Byrne's administration. For 
instance, he announced that the 
Ait Force would vacate a facility 
of O'Hare Airport so an 
international terminal can -be 
built there. Mrs. Byrne had 
been working to take .over the 
defense faciltty there for some 
time. 
In addition, Carter announced 
plans for federal funding of 
more than 1,300 city govern­
ment jobs. 
Asked if he had expected a 
formal endorsement, Carter re­
plied. "I think that was 
enough." Mrs. Byrne interrup­
ted to say that she had gone as , far as she could without incur­ring the anger of the chairman of the Cook County Democratic Party. 

Auto acessory theft reports soar 
By]ohn McGrath Senior StaffReporter 
Soaring theft rates for car stereos and other automo­bile accessories are causing· increased alarm for area police departments, and heightened anxiety for Notre Dame students who have cars parked in campus lots. 
The South Bend' Police Department has reported a 20 percent increase in auto accessory thefts for August 1979 compared to August of last year, and a 56 per­cent rise for September of 1979 over the same month in 1970. 
"We've been noticing an increase in the last six to nine months," reported Capt. Richard Chlebek of the South Bend Police Department's detective bureau. "The area around the Notre Dame campus is one of our highest crime rate census tracts ·· quite a few of the thefts occur there." · 
The situation on the Notre Dame campus itself also has officials worried, e~pec_ially in light of ~ special theft prevention program mstttuted by the Secunty Department, which seems to have broken down. 
•'There has been a great number of thefts and inci­dents of vandalism ·· especially in the D-1 and D-2 lots," commented Glenn Terry, director of Notre Dame security. "I've become concerned recently because of the increased number of incidents that we've had reported." 
Although students speculate that most of the thefts are committed by outsiders, Terry was unable to identify the culprits as being students or persons not connected with the University. 
He did admit, however, that at -least one measure to prevent car thefts in campus lots has been yielding less than desirable results. 
"Apparently some of the students that were assigned to patrol the lots haven't been coming in as frequently as they should be," Terry said. 
He noted that the Security Department normally pays approximately 11 students to patrol parking lots on Friday and Saturday nights in an effort to cut down on the incidence of vandalism and theft. The students are equipped with two-way radios to report any unusual activity they notice. 
Terry was at a loss to explain why the student patrols have been lax, but added that he had discussions with University officials recen,tly about improving surveilance in the lots. One suggestion Terry mentioned was t~e possibility of erecting watch towers to provide aenal views of the lots. 
"I really think the thing we've slipped up on though, is not having these lot patrols come in as often as we would like," Terry said. 
Mike Dunn, a resident of Howard Hall, was a recent victim of burglars. Although the main target of thieves has been car stereos, Dunn reported that a battery 
continued on page 8 

-----------~--~-­
------~-­

News in brief 
Wednesday, October 17, 1979 -page 2 
Sorority pledges pull prank, steal Vet Dept. 's calf 
MORGANTOWN, W. VA. (AP) -The sisters of Kappa Delta sorority got a big surprise over the weekend wh~n ~h~y found a 200-po~nd calf munching hay in thetr ltvmg room. So did Alfred Barr chairman of the Division of Animal and Veterinary Sciences at West Virginia University here. The calf was taken from the university's dairy farm. The calf was turned loose in the sororitv house by a group of women know as pledges who intend to join the organization. "It's the best pledge prank that's ever been pulled here -it can never be topped," said Gretchen Noats. a sorority member. 
Pepper causes death ofalleged child abuse victim 
GOSHEN, IND. (AP) -a 4-year-old girl apparently suffocated Monday night when her father poured pepper down he~ throa_t as punishment for spillmg the sptce, state ~;oltce satd. The father, identified as Harold 
K. Smtth, 38, was arrested by Goshen police and held at the .~lkhart County Jail on a preliminary charge of homictde_. State police said the incident began when the chtld, Shawndalynn Marie Smith, spilled pepper and her mother became angry and demanded the father punish the child. Smith asked the child if she wanted some pepper, and when she said yes, he poured th~ contents _of the s~aked ~own her throat, police satd. Investigators said Smtth then obtained more peppe~ and also poured that down her throat. Po­lice satd no charges were lodged against Mrs. Smith. 

Nuke plant employees admit guilt for damages 
SURREY, VA. (AP) -A jury yesterday convicted two former. nuclear pl~nt e_~ployees on felony charges of damagmg a public unhty. The •two had admitted they sabotaged the Surry nuclear plant, saying they wanted to draw attention to safety standards. The utility that operates the Virginia Electric & Power Co. plant here has estimated damage at $1 million from the sabotage. Kuymendall and Merrill, former control room operator trainees at the Surry nuclear plant, admitted they poured a caustic chemical on fuel rods April 27. They said they did so to organize what they regarded as a lax security and unsafe work­
ing conditions at the plant. 

Weather 
Chance of dense fog this morning, the low 60s. Cloudy with chance of or Thursday. Overnight lows today 40s and highs tomorrow in the low 60s. 
with highs in 
drizzle tonight 
in the upper 

CamP-_us_~ 
9 a.m. NATIONAL ABORTION CONFERENCE open to nd/smc community CCE 
I p.m. LAW SCHOOL CARAVAN admissions officers from over 60 law schools STEPAN CENTER 4 p.m. LECTURE "the infliction of death for private convienience &·the german experience," prof. frank booker IOILAW BLDG. 
4: 30 p.m. LECTURE " ongoing studies in the total synthesis of natural products--part I," prof daniel danishefsky 123 NIEUWLAND 6:30p.m. MEETING off campus council LAFORTUNE 6:30p.m. MEETING sailing club 204 O'SHAG 
6:30 p.m. VOLLEYBALL smc vs creighton ANGELA FACILITY 7, 9, 11 p.m. FILM "death wish," ENGR. AUD. 
7:30 p.m. FORUM "minority policy at nd," university administrators WASHINGTON HALL 7:30p.m. LECTURE "how are we regulatin~ the billions in penston funds?" o.m. sherman, goodyear ure co. GALVIN AUD. · 
8:15 p.m. CONCERT notre dame piamo trio LIB. AUD. 8:30p.m. LECTURE colin rowe, prof. of architecture ARCH. AUD. 9 p.m. MEETING knights and ladies of columbus K OF C HALL
r 
10 p.m.] AZZ r.aul bertolini, mike franken, don ginocchio, jeff hanson, mtke o'connor NAZZ 
.­
No evidence 

Curran clears Carter of charges 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A special counsel, declaring that ''There is no evidence to estab­lish that Jimmy Carter commit­ted any crimes,'' said yesterday no prosecution is planned in connection with the financing of the president's family peanut business. 
Special counsel Paul ] . Cur­ran, concluding a six-month investigation, said "no indict­ment can or should be brought against anyone'' involved in nearly $10 million in loans from the National Bank of Georgia to the peanut business. 
Curran, in a 239-page report to Attorney General Benjamin Civiletti, said there was no evidence any of the money was di1erted into Carter's 1976 presidential campaign. He also concluded there was no evi­
hour deposition from the Presi­
dent  at  the  White  House  on  
Sept. 3.  
It marked the first  time  in  

history that an incumbemPresi ~ent had siv_en SW?rn testimony 10 a cnmmal mvestigation, Curran said. Former President Richard M. Nixon's deposi­tions in the Watergate scandal were taken after he left office. 
Curran said Carter "coot'er­ated totally'' in the investiga­tion and that a transcript of the interview and the President's financial records were turned over to a federal grand jury in Atlanta that looked into the Carter transactions. 
Carter was asked about the Curran report yesterday while 

the President was attending a 
Democratic  reception  in  Har­ 
vey, Ill.  
"I'm  glad they  have  com­ 

pleted their investigation and rurned their attention to crime control,'' Carter replied. Asked how he felt about being declar­ed "clean," he replied, "I knew it all the time." 
An abbreviated, 179-~age version of the report to Civlletti was sent to Congress and was made public at a news confer­ence. 
Curran said the shortened version contained all he was legally permitted· to disclose and contained no direct testi­mony from the President or any other witnesses who appeared before the Grand Jury. 
dence of any criminal activities ' 
stemming from the loans. 1 However, Curran described a series of financial irregularities, I involving bookkeeping mistakes · and inadequate collateral on ':fhe Station that Rocks you AM 
the part of the Carter peanut 

warehouse, which has been from the Tower TONITE PRESENTS heavily in debt. The Soul Hour from 9-11 He declined to characterize , F · h b · 
. Aenadtunng t e est m ] azz, Soul, Rythm and Blues
the Irregularities, but said none of them amounted to criminal· S 1· hports me, w ere you the.listener can call1"n. 
violations. 

Curran also disclosed that he All From Notre Dame's Student Rock, AM 64, 
took an unprecedented four-';;;;::====================:::=! 
Correction 
The Observer incorrectly re­~orted yesterday that the recep­tion for Donald Vogl, associate professor of art, would be held Oct. 21_. !~e recept~o~, following an exhibJtJon of pamttngs enti­tled ''A Sense ofPlace,'' will be 
held Nov. 18 from 2:30 to 4:30 
p.m. in the art gallery. 
The Observer 
Night Editor: Margaret Kruse Asst.· Night Editor: Suzy Marshall, Ann Monaghan, Dave "Birdman" La Berge Copy Editor: John McGrath Layout Staff: Mary Land, FrankFurt News Editor: Mark Rust Features Layout: K. Connelly Sports Layout: ] ohn Smith Sports Copy Editor: Mike Olenik Typists: Laura Vasquez, Paula Shea, Michelle Santello, Kathy Murray . EMT:Cindy Grillot Proofreader:Michael Onufrak-' ND Day Editor: Keith Melaragno SM~ Day Editor: Kathy Do­mamco Photogtapher: John Macor Guest Appearances: Ken 
Tuckey, AlAska, AI Abama Carlo Ponti, Sal Granata ' 
The Observer (USPS • 121) II published Monday tllreugll Fridly u­
cept during exam and YICIIIItlperilds. The Observer Ia publlallld lly 1111 students of Nltrl 011111 _. Slillt Mary's C....... Sllbscrt,.._ _,Ill purdlated llr $21 per ,..,. ,•• per llmlltlrl frtm The Observer. ft.O. 1111 0. Netn ba1111. llldlana 411i51. s.-1 cilia 111111111 paid, lhlrl Dallll, Ill­diana 41551. 
The Observer II 1 111111111tr .r 1111 Alllclalld ,.... All .......... 
riglltlarw,...,. 
.) . 




Pre·Law
liociet 
and the Placement Bureau will sponsor the FtfthAnnual Law School
Caravan __________. 
·-·-for the first time ever at Notre Damewb0 : Admissions officers from over 
1 hoo 


en:w~~~!~'~~be~ 1!~.tere:Stepan Ce~ter 
need printing in a hurry? 
100 -11 x 17 posters only $10.00 
203 N. Main South Bend 289-697-7 
the wiz of theprintingbiz! 


RAMROD BAR 
~#Each and every~~tqa~ Wednesday $2.00 Pitchers of Beer-9:00 till closing 
See Buddy King from WJV A Fri &Sat 9:30-1 ~·30 No Cover Charge with Student ID 511 S. Mich~an St. Bring This Ad For Your First Pitcher ofBeer Free 
I ,.o . 

__........ ....... --.................... ---.............. .
~­

,.,, ..... ··~···~·· .... .., .. -... -. ,_. ...... 
The Observer Wednesday, October 17, 1979 -page 3 

The new engineen·ng addition gives students a different enviornment to work. in. [P.boto by john Macor] 

Miller sa,rs U".S. faces recession 
WASHINGTON_ (AP) ­Treasury Secretary G. William Miller said yesterday the nation still faces a moderate recession, desfite figures showing indus­tria production in September registered the biggest growth in four months. 
•'While the recession facing the nation is expected to be moderate, the current economic outlook remains vola~ile, par­ticularly in the light of the 
• uncenainri~ · Abouf;,eorH:rgy prices and availability,'' Miller told a congressional panel. "We cannot be as certain as previously about the depth and severiry of the econom1c slow­down," he said. But Miller quickly added that "there are few signs" the recession will be bad as the 1974-1975 down-turn which was the worst since the depression. The treasury secretary's testi­mony before members of the Joint Economic Committe came at the sme time the Federal Reserve Board released figures showing industrial production was up by 0.5 percent last 
'month. The increase represented a turn-around from a decline of 
0.9 percent in August. The improvement was largely a res\-!lt of an increase in auto output as manufactures began production of 1980 models. But toal output of the nation's factories, utilities and mines still was below the year's peak production levels set in March. 
Miller said the nation's econ­omy in recent weeks has shown ''More strength than earlier anticipated,'' but added that.he still forcasts "a moderate re­cession.'' 
In fact, he indicated the out­look may have worsened as a result of the Federal Reserve Board recent actions to push up interest rates, coupled with announcements by some oil producing nations of higher prices and cutbacks in produc­tion. 
The higher interest rates are "appropriate and necessary" to help fight inflation, Miller mamtained. 
Meanwhile, President Carter told a town meeting in Dolton, Ill., he hopes interest rates have peaked along with infla­tion "and will now be going down.'' 
He said the administration's package of economic policies "is the best we can have." Carter also asserted that home buying remains a sound invest­ment despite high financing costs. 
In its report on September 
industrial output, the Federal 
Reserve said auto assemblies 
increased 5 percent to an 
annual rate of 7. 9 million units, 
law· caravan tonight 
Representatives from 60 law sc~ools from throughout the Umted Stated, will visit Notre Dame today to meet with sudents to discuss admissions curric~la, specializations, costs: fina~Cial atd and other topics relatmg to law studies, as part of the Law School Caravan. 
The event, sponsored by the Notre Dame Placement Bureau and Pre-Law Socic:ry, is open to all students inrer:::dred 10 punuing a law career. 
The Caravan, consisting of admission officers, faculty re­presentatives and deans, includes such schools as Harvard, Cornell, Georgetown, Pennsylvania, the Universiry of Southern California, Yale, Northwestern and Rutgers. It is the first time the Caravan hs visited Notre Dame. 
Spirit gimick presented 


HPC discusses CILA, budgets 
by]ana Schutt 
HPC held its weekly,meetingn 

Dillon Hall last evening. The 
presidents heard Ted Gutmann, 
a speaker for CILA, discuss 
the budget allocations which 
will be held after midsemester 
break. 
Gutmann asked for the coun­

cil's assistance in publicizing 
the summer projects program 
sponsored by CILA. Deadline 
for application is Nov. 18. 
''This is a one-to two-month learning experience designed to involve Notre D.ame and St. Mary's students in social work, community organization, and medical work in underprivi­ledged areas," said Gutmann. ''Always before, the summer projects have ibeeo limited to ·CILA members, but this year 
we are opening application to 
the whole campus.'' 
The student who ·paritcipates 
in the CILA summer proJect 
must give a presentation and 
write a report in the fall after 
the project is completed. In 
recent years, CILA member 
have spent their summers in 
~ppalachia and Tiajuana, Mex­
tco. 
HPC allocations from the Hall 
Life Fund--HPC moneys used 
for student comfort, entertain­
ment and utiliry--will begin 
after break. Sizable amounts of 
money will be considered only if 
the acquisitions are expected to 
serve the hall community for 
many years to come, explained 
Don Ciancio, president of Flan­
ner Hall. 
Accordin~ to the budget allo­
cations gutdelinesputout by the 
HPC committe, the size of the 
years will also be considered as factors in this year's divison of funds. 
All allocations must be used by the end of the first semester. 
Any funds left over must be returned to HPC and will then be redistributed after the estab­lishment of the Second Semeter Hall Life Fund, the guidelines stipulate. These moneys can 
Final Trojan 
clues 
"Come on down" 
Go tell it on the mountain" 
';· :1 -~o~_by' s_~ .






:· _---_-._.l 


•I 
~-4~~--__,._-------­
Happy Hour Mon . -Fri. 3pm -7pm 

GO IRISH BEAT U·S·C· 

' be ''frozen,'' that is kept within the hall if valid reasons are put forward. 
The committee in charge of the budget hearings consists of Curt Wesseln, Jane Stoffel, Chris Digan, John Reily, Don Murday, and Paul Riehle, alter­nate. 
A letter was read to the council asking for cooperation in a new spirit gimmick for the USC football game. Fans are asked blue before the kickoff. At a signal from the cheerleaders, everyone is supposed to put on something green for the re­mainder of the game. Details 
' 

for the plan will announced at the pep rally on Friday. 
''With the help of the stud­ents, this can prove to be an impressive show of spirit," the letter concluded. 
It was announced that the Sorin Pep Rally for the USC game will be held tomorrow night at 8 p.m. on the Sorin porch. Speakers will be Scott Zettek, Brendan Moynihan, Chuck Male, and Coack Joe Yortto . Officer Jim McCarthy will also be on hand. The Sorin 
Talent Show is planned Saturday at 9:30 a.m. on Sorin porch. 

for the 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 


Wednesday, October 17, 1979 -page 4 
***** 
Wednesday Night St. Mary's Soviet nuclear plants raise Snack Bar 

concern from energy specialists 
CoHee House October 17 
8:30 -10:30pm Specla.l 
Sm. drink & 3 cookies J.50 

Come be Social 
UNIVERSITY OF PIITSBURGH GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS 
11 MONTIIS + YOU = MBA , 
You fit this equation if you: 
0 have an excellent academic record. 
0 are committed to a caroor in management. 
0 are a liberal arts or science major. 
0 are a mature individual. 
0 are seeking a high-quality AACSB-accredite<i 
.MBA program. 
For more information, detach and mail. 
Name 
Address 
To: Graduate School of Business, Director of Admissions, University of Pittsburgh, 1401 Cathedral of Learning, Pgh., PA 15260 
Cl7 
MOSCOW (AP) -After years 
of little but praise for nuclear 
power in the Soviet Union, two 
top, ener~y specialists have 
voiced senous doubts over the 
scope, safety and environmen­
tal consequences of this coun­
try's ambitious atomic power 
program. 
Unless the program is radical­
ly altered, they say, more 
densely populated areas of 
European Russia may soon 
reach the limits of their ''ecolo­
gical capacity'' to COJ?e with 
new nuclear power stauons. 
Nikolai A. Dollezhal and Uri 
Koryakin sounded the warning 
in an authoritative article pub­
lished in last week's edition of 
Kommunist, the Soviet Com­
munist Party's leadin~ theoret­
ical jornal. Koryakm is an 
economist and Dollezhal is chief 
of a department of the Soviet 
Academy of Sciences that deals 
with energy production. 
Western sctentific sources in 
Moscow said they were aston­
ished at the critical frankness of 
the Kommunist, article, which 
contrasted sharply with the 
upbeat tone typical of most 
nuclear power converage in the 
government-controlled news 
media. 
The Soviet Union's overall nuclear-fueled power capacity currently amounts to about one-quarter of the 50,000 mega­watts of electricity that can be generated by atomic power stations in the United States. 
But the Soviet press reports that at least 10 large nuclear plants are now under construc­tion, with a projected capacity 



make yout tesetvations eatly fot the 
HOTEL CALIFORNIAt~::::::::l 

nd homecoming dance 
length of stay : THURSDAY. OCTOBER· 18 check In: 9 p.m. music by one of the 
check out: 1 a.m. biQ bands ~harge: S4.00 pet person semi­

formal
room location: stepan center 
sponsered by the student union sociGI commission 1 tickets on sGie a.t student union oHices Gnd dinin hGIIs 


GOOD FRIENDS, GOOD TIMES, GREAT BEER!! 
of more than-25,050 megawatts. 
Upon completion by the mid­1980s, they will boost total Soviet nuclear generating ca­pacity above 35,000 megawatts -more than 10 percent of all electric power produced in this country. 
In their detailed, 6,000-word Kommunist article, Koryakin and Dollezhal balanced both praise and criticism of nuclear power. 
At the same time, however, they raised a number of seri­ous problems facing the nuclear power program, including: 
-Delays in the development of "fast breeder" reactors, which produce more plutonium nucle­ar fuel than they consume but require complex fuel reprocess­ing facilities. "The previously forecast date for creation of powerful, commercial-scale breeder reactor stations -the start of the 1980's -has been postponed, according to current estimations, until the end of this centruy,'' they said. 

:Technical reliability and safe­ty. "It is obviously wrong to believe that guaranteed, reli­able, economical, advanced and time-tested technologies have been created for aH production aspects of the external fu.e cycle,'' including reprocessing. -Increased danger of accidents in transporting nuclear fuel· shipments. ''The probability .. 
is insignificant. At the same time, with the growth of nuclear power expected in the near future ... this possibility must be taken into account." 
-Strain on land resources and the overall environment, partly because of the need for large cooling reservoirs and other auxiliary facilities at nuclear plants. 
-In European Russia, where most nuclear construction is now under way, "the current concept of locating atomic pow­er stations will rather soon, in our opinion, lead to exhaustion of the region's ecological capa­city." 
Cbmmuter crash leaves 400 injured in Philly 
PHILADELPHIA (AP)­Screamin~ passengers were sent "flymg" down the aisles and slamming into seatbacks when three packed commuter trains crashed in a chain reac­tion at the peak of the morning rush-hour yesterday. There were more than 400 injuries, most of them minor, authorities said. 
'.'We were going at a good cltp, 40 to 4 5 miles an hour," said R.C. Morrow of Glen Mills, a structural engineer and one of the commuters on board. 
"We started flying when the engineer hit the brakes. Most of the people hit their head and faces on their seats in front of them." 
There were no reports of fatalities in the 8:19a.m. crasn on the Media-West Chester Line just beyond a curve in the southwest section of the city. 
''Brace yourselves,'' shouted a motorman just before the impact. 
The passengers, many dazed and dabbing their bloody f~ces with handkerdhiefs, stumb.ed from the cars as police wagons, ambulances and fire rescue vehicles raced to the scene. 
''A few people were trapped in the first smashed car but the firemen got them out quickly,'' said Police Commissioner Jos­eph O'Neill. 
The injured were taken to 23 hospitals and an elementary school, the police commissioner said. 
Conrail officials said as many as 1,200 passengers may have been riding on the trains. 
O'Neill said most of the injur­ies involved bloody noses, sprained necks and some bro­ken bones. 
''We heard this big bang and ran out there with ice and taper towels," said Ruth Wol , a teacher at the Harrington Ele­mentary School, a block from the accident scene. "Poor thi~~s. They were really shook up. 
A nine-car lead train develop­ed a mechanical failure and a second train, which also had nine cars, stopped behind it, according to R. B. Hoffman, and official of Conrail which Of.erates the cummuter service. 
'The leading train got started and headed toward-Philadel­phia," Hoffman said. "The third train stopped behind the second train and the fourth hit the third before it could move away." 

The force of the crash propel­led the front of the third train into the rear of the second train which was just getting ready to pullout, Hoffman added. 
"We have no idea what trig­gered the ;Iccident," he said. 
"All signals in the vicinity were operational when I arrived at the scene.'' 
Five cars derailed--two on the express and three from the moving fourth train. the ex­press had originated in West Chester, the other three trains i11 M(;d~t;!­
Reilly 
lectures begin today 
Dr. Samuel Danishefsky, a chemist from the University of Pittsburgh who specializes in organic synthesis, will deliver three Peter C. Reilly lectures at Notre Dame today and tomor­row. 
Danishefsky has developed new methods for synetically producing specific natural com­pounds wh1ch are potentially valuable, for example as anti­cancer agents, but which are not avatlable from natural sources in usable amounts. 
The lectures will be held in room 123 of Nieuwland Science Hall at 4:30 p.m. 
Today, Danishefsky will dis­cuss approaches to several in­teresting natural products be­ing made by his group, and tomorrow he will descnbe the almost completed total synthe­sis of natural product which is an antitumor agent. 
A full professor of chemistry at the University of Pittsburgh since 1971, Danishefsky re­ceived the Ciba-Geigy Award in 1976. 
The Reilly lecture series honors the memory of the late Indianapolis industrialist Peter 
C. Reilly and is sponsored by the Department of Chemistry. 

..."'·,·.. 
. ·"· .... 




The Observer Wednesday, October 17, 1979 -page 5 
Law-School sets precedent, establishes 'Sports Law' program 
by Micheal Mader 
The Notre Dame Law School 
will establish a first for the 
country next semester, when it 
offers a course in Sports Law. 
The class is designed to stimu­
late interest in cases involving 
the problems of athletes. 
School officials feel there is a 
real need for attorneys with a 
background in sports law. 
According to Granville 
Cleveland of the school faculty, 
athletes are the most mistreat­
ed people when it comes to law, 
whether professionals or child­
ren on playgrounds. 
"Right now, ·it would be 
difficult for him to find an 
attorney that would know how 
to handle the case effectively,'' 
Cleveland said. 
Cleveland believes that all law . schools should initiate sports 
law courses. "All law students 
should get a background in 
Sports Law," he added. 
The course will be team­
taught by six professors from 
the law school, each of which 
will specialize in one aspect of 
sports law. The subjects will 
include contracts, labor law, 
antitrust, torts, tax and busi­
ness association, all in terms of 
the sports world. 
As 1t stands now, the cours•:: 
will be open only to law 
students as an elecuve course, 
but Cleveland says the law 
school hopes to include under­
graduates in the future. 
The field of sports law is a 
beginning stage and very wide 
open at this time. Because the 
rate of athletes having 
problems in court is increasing, 
athletes need good, reliable 
attorneys, Cleveland stated. 
Athletes also need help in 
antitrust suits and understand­
ing contract legalities and need 
advice on financi~l situations 
and tax shelters, Cleveland 
added. 
As a means of increasing 
interest prior to the beginning 
of the course, the law school is 
presenting a series of lectures 
on sports law. 
Lionel S. Sobel, well-known 
AFROTC 
honors cadets 
Air Force ROTC will hold a military parade followed by an awards ceremony at 4:30 p.m. today at the South parking lot of the ACC. All AFROTC cadets must at· tend, and the public is invited. Those cadets who received awards at field training this summer will be honored as well as other distinguished cadets for the fall semester. 
illilCB 
CDJ @omrm~rm 
100 Center Shoppin Complex 
ph ~ 255-8661 
Party Trays Bargain Prices and 10% off with Student ID 
expert on sports law from Beverly Hills, Calif., will be the first speaker in the series. He will give his talk at noon Friday in the law school lounge. He will also be available to talk one-on-one with anybody interested in the sports law field tomorrow from 2-5 p.m. in the law school library. All students are invited to come, but must sign up in the law building prior to the lecture. 
Martin Blackman will continue the lecture series Oct. 26 also in the law school lounge. Blackman is a lawyer and agent for many athletes. 
The series will end with a talk by Sheldon Gallner on Nov. 9, again in the lounge. Gallner wrote the first book that dealt effectively with professional sports law. 
Health Services reports virus wave subsides 
The wave of stomach disorder to treatment,'' Ruidl said. that sent at least 15 students to ''There have been no new Student Health Services (SHS) admissions." SHS discharged for tre.atment has subsided, six students yesterday, she according to Helth Service Ad­added. ministrator Sr. Marian Ruidl. The results of dinins hall food 
testing by Edward Rdey of theHealth officials have attribut­Office of Safety and Healthed the illness to gastroenteritis Asfministration are not yet a­pending the release of food vailable, Ruidl said, adding that testing results. 
she expected them within a day ''The students are responding or two. 
Thur 
Fri 

Paul Bertolini Mike Franken 10-? Don Ginocchio Jeff Hanson Mike O'Connor 
Chris Alberton John Cuckovich Becky Holthouse 9:30-10 
Open Stage 10-12 
Steve Notaro 

with 9:30-? 
matk Bustamante Cult Wesseln 

Sat Open Stage 9:30-?? 

General Dynamics, a Fortune 100 company, will be visiting your campus this fall to talk to you about our broad range of high-technology programs at our 15 operating divisions throughout the United States. 
At General Dynamics you will have the opportunity to work with top professionals on state-of-the-art proJects like the F-16. Cruise missiles. Trident submarines. LNG tankers. Sparrow missiles. Digital telephone equipment and more. Plus, depending upon your discipline, your caree-r could start at one of our many locations shown above. 
To find out more about high-technology opportunities with one of the i'ligh-technology leaders in Telecommunications, Electronics, Data Products, Shipbuilding, Aerospace ;Tactical Weaponry and other fields, contact your Placement Office. Or, send your resume to: 
Corporate Director, College Relations, GENERAL DYNAMICSCORPORATION,CN21, Pierre Laclede Center, St. Louis, MO 63105. 
So you're not in a· rah-rah mood? It's Homecoming week at the Nazz ­
Wednesday NO Jazz Combo with 
OCTOBER31&NOVEMBSR1 
-~--~­

Features Wednesday, October 17, 1979-page 6 ACAPULCO ~ Senior Class Trip -1979 Acapulco is divided into an East -Aca~;>ulco Princess -a hotel that is -Acapulco Center -a five building FINANCES ... section and a West section. The built ltke an Aztec pyramid, with an complex and grand plaza studded eastern part of the city is the newer, open lobby totalling 20,000 square with reproducuons of Mexican arti­Tips float around 15 percent more modern and affluent area. The feet. The lobby includes a 16 storey facts. There is entertainment here West side has all the character. atrium complete with 40 foot high every night from 7 p.m. to 2 a.m. -10 pesos = .50 There you will find the bullfights, jai palm trees, hanging gardens and a choose from symphony concerts, 20 pesos= $1 alai matches, glass-bottomed boat flowing lagoon. Before you rush to opera, a Mexican fair with cockfights, 100 pesos = $5 rides, twin domed cathedral, and the reserve a room, however, note that a fireworks ......you get the idea. (these conversions are based on a $20 old Acapulco waterfront. Dividing double will set you back $124 a day. exchange rate) ,-La Quebrada Cliffs -cliff diversthe East from the West is the zocalo, Apparently, anything less than $40 a plunge into the dark sea with flaming of central square. day is a bargain, but shop around and torches day and night. Coinage comes in 10 peso, one pesoAccording to various reports, the old you may get lucky. and 50 centavo pieces.The 130 ft. leap ends in a narrowdowntown area is dirty and unattrac­Currency comes in 1,000; 500, 100,crevice between the rocks into 12 feettive, the beaches cluttered with -Las Brisas-another hotel. This one 50 and 20 peso denominations. of water.hawkers and beggars (you will learn consists of 250 little units painted There are 100 centavos in one peso. to resist the tear-filled warm brown pink and white set into the steep, CLOTHING....eyes of the little five-year-old con craggy hillside 1,000 feet above the HOURS ... artists or end up buying seventeen Eastern side of the bay. Each has a And I quote from a travel· guide: seed necklaces that you wouldn't ask private of semi private pool; well, Very little clothing is worn in Shops and Offices: Monday throughvour worst enemy to wear on Hallo­almost -for 250 units there are only Acapulco. No ties or jackets for men.ween.) 200 pools. Saturday -­lOa.m.-6p.m.; Wednes­Sandals and swim suits will do untilYou might stop and consider that day and Saturday night until 8p.m. evening when anything light and airythe city you are in is more than a, -Pie de Ia Cuesta -"Foot of the Banks: Monday through Friday -­goes.''tourist trap ... for the poor who live Hill'' -this beach boasts some of the 8a.m.-1:30p.m.; closed Saturday and And from another ''In AcapulCo no Sunday.there it is an economic nightmare most S,Pectacular sunsets anywhere. ~ one wears anything but a swim suitwhere every stitch of clothmg and No swtmming here, though; the surf Outside Mexico City, everythingand a cover-up during the day, andmorsel of food that comes to them is rolls straight in frop1 Tahiti and is closes for two hours at midday.wild, outlandish costumes at night.purchased with pennies thrown by much too rough. ] ackets and ties here are for head­tourists .. Don't feel guilty, and don't waiters or if you plan on beingtry to "help" any one out of it. Just -La Perla -a restaurant nightclub. married or buried."be aware. This trip can be a fantastic Make dinner reservations and see the DUTY FREE SHOPPING ... education as well as a lot-of fun. main feature of this cliff clingingDespite the drawbacks mentioned TIME DIFFERENCE ... night spot -the diver who leaps from You may bring up to $250 worth ofabove, Acapulco is a beautiful and a spectacular height into the sea, merchandise into the U.S. fromexciting city, sunny all year round. Eastern Standard Time mmus onetorch in hand; there are tables Mexico provided you have receipts. Several things to see are: hour.available but a few yards away . .,.. A (TOJ IOUALf•GIO • !111M A 110/ CUfiNAII.tc.t,~ It/Iff "lff1 J51CM A (101 CUIIHA. ACA.,.WCW /CUOFA.JOU/ J» I ill .to (101 .WfXICO,D '· 'tlllfftlfi 44lllrl A (f0/. MfJICO, 0 F. ICIJOIA TOUJ 411 I IM ,; Ao (101 MfOTIJIA NACIOHot.L, OU JSI llol POBLACIOI'o !97S 352 663 H•b. POPULATION lt7S 352 663 ALTITOO S.N.M. 2 M. ALTITUDE A.S.i.. 6 FT TEMPERATURA M[OIA ANUAL 27"C. AVERAGE ANNUAL TEMP. 80"F FRACC. LOMA~ DE COSTA AZUL ~.o-.-.. (I.._ ' ' fl-B a h. a d e Acapulco I1 I I I . -. _.. •. ~.~,.......  

) 
...~ ...·.... 


The Observer 'Wednesday, October 17, 1979 -page -i 

ACAPULCO 
For a long time Diodoqpins were cooked apples, apricots, peaches, dear of milk, even though they have 
taken to ward off "Ia turista" --they and pears; also bacon, ground or excellent dairies in Mexico. Likewise served me well enough over the tender beef, chicken, fish, lamb, use very little butter or margarine. years. But there have been some liver, veal, eggs, cheddar cheese, Remember, Mexico has good doc­newer developments along these cottage cheese, cream cheese, (bake tors, too ... And Mexico has come a lines and I'll tell you about them: or broil the meat); Irish potatoes, long, long, way in grading up their 
First, the May '72 issue of the FDA macaroni, noodles, refined rice, spa­eating places, and food processing,Drug Bulletin says that there is no ghetti, boullion, sugar, syrup, tomato and the chances are now fairlyacceptable evidence that Diodoquins juice, cooked or canned vegetable remote that you'll pick up "Tourist are effective in the treatment or purees; salt, paprika, cream sauces. 
Complaint'' ... 

prevention of ''tra.velers diarrhea.'' 
Next the FDA recommended (in the WHAT NOT TO EAT: Milk, milk May '72 Drug Bulletin) that a :rather drinks; hot breads, whole-grain popular remedy Entero-viofortlt, nqt bread or rolls; whole grain cereals, be given to prevent ''travelers' prepared or dry cereals; other cakes diarrhea". . and doughnuts, pastry, cookies, and A few years ago, a careful ''double­puddings with fruits and nuts; all blind" study was performed on other fats; all other raw fruits, all students going from Ohio State to the other cooked or canned fruits; all University ofMexico Summer School, other soups, tough meats, pork, other and it demonstrated that one gram of cheeses, fried meats, corn and beans, Sulfasuxidine daily or one half a gram fried potatoes, sweet potatoes, whole of Neomycin twice daily cut the grain rice; other candy jam or incidence of diarrhea considerably. marmalade; raw or whole vegetables; 
There are other remedies:-Viotalan­other sl'ices, catsup, pepper, mus­dina is popular in Mexico for mild tard, vmegar, chili sauces, steak cases of stomach upset. Polmagna is sauces, hot sauces, gravy nuts, olives said to be good for more severe popcorn. cases. If cramps persist, Bellafolina is often taken. All the above drugs Drink water served in dining rooms. are prescription items in the United. Ask for more, because they just don't States, although in Mexico no· pre­force their expensive Tehuacan bot­

scription is_ usually needed. tled water on you.· In your hotel THE MARKET PLACE ... 
room, if there isn't a pitcher or a carafe of water on the dresser, call
WHAT TO EAT: Carbonated bever­You probably won't like it at first
down for one. (Order "agua -sin
ages, coffee, tea, strained fruit juice, but you must haggle at the market
gas"-or non-carbonated water.) Try
enriched white bread, toast, crack­palce. They will ask you double what 
not to drink water out of a tap.
ers, cooked cream of wheat, refined It's worth, and you have to take it
(There are a few newer hotels in
oatmeal, farina, rice, sponge cake, from there. A great many of the
Mexico that will tell you their tap
pla~n cookies, c?stards, g~latiot~ des­vendors do know English, so watch
water is OK for drinking purposes.) 
serts, .water Ices or Ice creams what you say. After you get a little 
In villages, use bottled water or soft
without fruits or nuts, puddings, expenence, haggling can be rather 
drinks-the Cokes are very good; so is 
rennet desserts, butter or margarine, fun. Watch for bargains in pottery, 
cream, ripe bananas, canned or "sidral," an apple juice dnnk. ~teer leathergoods, glass fiber art ..... 

RESTAURANTS ... 
Most of the hotel restaurants are safe. 
PLAY IT SAFE
Some nice, inexpensive places are: 
:D 
-Carlos and Charlie's-you will stand in line, but a 
Being an American won't help you ... 
visit to this ·rooftop restaurant is worth it. The 
Your rich uncle ,:an 't buy your way out...
atmosphere is the big draw, but the food is also very 
n 
That your mother is an attorney won't make a bt't of
good. 
differ.ence ... -Blackbeard's on the Beach -resembles a beach Your father's friend "in a high place in govern-
shack, but very good·food is guaranteed. ment" won't be able to touch you .... 
:D 
-o 
Ifyou are bustedfor possession or use in a foreign
If you care to spend more than the usual $15 to $20 
country, and t/1at i1Jcludes Mexico, YOU ARE
per dinner for two: 
BU~TED. 

-Cayuca 22 -one of the older, more respected restaurants in Aca~ulco. 
·The average worldwide jail sentence is seven -La Hacienda -at the Princess Hotel. The motif years .... just for marijuana. And ifthey get you for 
c:
is ranch h~use and the food is unsurpassed possession, they 'II be able to make ''use'' stick quite anywhere in the city. easily as well, which will mpan a lengthy sentence.
I

To be safe, do .not buy fruit or food from beach or 
Possession in or trafficking in any type of narcott'cs 
street venders and take a teaspoon of Lomoltil every 
can mean: 

mormng. 
n 
0 
-pre-trial detention -which may be spent in solitary confinement for periods ofup to one year. 
-two years to life in prison -including hardlabor, 
.. 
solitary confinement and heavy fines, iffound guilty. · 
3 
-no constt'tutt'onal rights -you may not be eligible for bail or jury trial. 
An American consul can't get you out. An American consul can: 
-visityou in jail after being notified ofyour arrest.
iii 
-give you a list ofreputable local attorneys 
>< -nott'fy yourfamily, friends and_relay requests for financial or other aid, ifyou authorize him or her to do so. 
n 
-intercede with local authoniies to make sure your rights under local law are folly observed and that you are treatedhumanely in accordance with 
0 
internationally accepted standards. 
-protest mistreatment orabuse to the appropriate authorities. 
The best thing to do is leave it behindandnot to try to bn"ng any back. Itjust isn't worth the risk. Teddy can't help you, Mommy andDaddy can't help you .... 
~-----J 
THE BEACHES 
Tourists flock to the beaches in droves. If you can find a spot, ftle a claim with local authortties and consider it your own. It's not quite that bad, but the beach is busy and crowded place. Ask your guide (and it does help to have a gmde) which beach he or she recommends. 
Once you get there, and get used to seeing the vast expanses of flesh. check out pony riding on the beach (you know, like the ad~. in The New Yorker and the back pages of McCall's). You can also rent catamar­rans, paddle boats, fishiing boats and sailfish. The shore has a festive, carnival atmosphere, is federal pro­perty and is open to all. 
Popular beaches: 
-Playa de Caleta -good in the morning because the shadows fall early. The water is calm, good for swimming. 
-Playa de Homos-better in the afternoon because the shadows fall later. The water is rough. not suitable for swimming. 
As far as sunning is concerned, be very, very careful. An hour in the direct rays of this near equatorial zone can turn you into a lobster, result in permanent scarring, cause heat stroke and severe burning. You won't be able to spend long periods in the sun, so don't plan on long mornings or late afternoons at the beaches if you don't ha:ve adequate protection, or want to come back to campus flaming red. 
DANCING ... 
Almost every Hotel sports a disco with its own gimmic. 
-U.~.Q.'S 
-Le Jardin -Charlie's Chili--yes, this is a disco. A fun place with an •:::mphasis on craziness--sirens blowing, balloon­popping waiters--find out for your­self. -The Tiffany--at the Princess Hotel features three dance floors and scads of tiffany glass fixtures. 
Cover charges range from $2 to $5 or more. Drinks are expensive. 
Acapulco 

While you are in Acapulco you might consider taking a parachute ride over Acapulco Bay. The trip involves hitching up to an off-shore power boat, or to an on-shore souped up jeep. Then, for $8 to $10 you start on a five to ten minute ride above the bay or along the beach. Afterwards, your arms are very tired and sore from holding onto the chute, but the view is worth it. Secured to the chute with various straps, there is no danger of falling out--a. soft landing in the sandy beach and you're ready to take in the rest of what the beach fas to offer. 
' 


The Observer -SportsBoard Wednesday, October 17, 1979 -page 8 

ND 9tltiMI lllllon 
.
$uf.s1Jitu Promoliolls PresetJJ 
aod Special Guest 
Faith Band 
FRIDAY OCTOBER 19th 8 pm Notre Dame ACC Tickets S8.50 and S7.50 On sale now at ACC Box Office and Student Union Ticket Office 

·and Off-Campus Comm. 

Wednesday .7:00pm · La:Fotnme Alcove 
:::::.-:. 
,. 
Acareer in law­
without law school. 
Alterjust three months of study at The Institute for Paralegal Training in exciting Philadelphia, you can have a stimulating and rewarding career in law or business­without law school. 
As a lawyer's assistant you will be performing many of the duties traditionally handled only by attorneys. And at The Institute for Paralegal Training, you can pick one of seven different areas of law to study. Upon completion of your training, TM Institute's unique Placement Service will lind you a responsible and challenging job in a law firm, ~a.1k or corporation in the city of your choice. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training is the nation's first and most respected school for paralegal training. Since 1970, we've placed over 2,500 graduates in over 85 cities nationwide. 
If you're a senior of high academic standing and looking for an above average career, contact your Placement Office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on: 
Wed. Oct. 17,1979 
The 
for 
(215) 732-6600 
Paralegal Training® 
AC-0035 
operated by Para·legal, Inc. 
Approved by the American Bar Association. 
Drun breaks in California, leaves water in short supply 
ELCENTRO Calif. (AP) ­
Officials said yesterday that 
California's worst earthquake 
in eight years broke the major 
canal bringing water to this arid 
border region, leaving some 
cities in the area with only a 
two-day water supply. 
That assessment came from 
city and council officials who 
met in the gara~e of the 
Imperial County Ftre Station 
beneath neon lights left askew. 
The meeting was jarred by one 
of the hundreds of aftershocks 
from Monday afternoon's 
quake, which measured 6.5 on 
the Richter scale. 
At least 91 persons received 
injuries in the quake, almost all 
of them minor. Damage in the 
area was put at "$10 to 12 mil 
lion but that's a very prelimin­
ary figure," said Imperial coun­
ty fire chief Rudy Medina. 
Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. 
cut short an East Coast political 
visit and returned to Los Angel­
es. He was to tour the Imperial 
Valley later in the day. Local 
authorities have already declar­
ed a state of emergency. 
The quake along the Imperial fault, 150 miles southeast ofLos Angeles, shifted some home foundations by a foot in El Centro and moved a road six inches. 
Officials drained the All­American Canal after the trembler made several cracks in the wall of the conduit which runs about 70 miles from the Colorado River at the Arizona border and west along the California-Mexico border. 
That canal is the chief acque­duct in a network of canals that has made this once-arid desert region bloom with irrigated fields, .yi lding one or the nation's richest array of croys. 
"The All-American Cana is our lifeline,'' said Medina. 
The valley has 90,000 resi­dents, most of them living in the cities of El Centro, Calexi­co, Brawley, and Imperial. 
Authorities had been worried that the strong aftershocks that jolted the area could spark a "mammoth fire," but Medina said the situation had stabilized by daybreak. 
By 3 a.m., seismologists at California Institute of Technol­ogy reported hundreds of 


Join the Observer's prOduction department. 
We can't promise you a trip to Acapulco, but we can promise you a good job with great people. 
ontact Ceil at the Observe office, call 8661, or 1715. 
aftershocks with 26 measuring 4 or more on the Richter scale, including six over 5. The largest--5.6 hit around mid­night. 
The Richter scale is a meas­ure of ground motion as record­ed on seismographs. Every increase of one number means a tenfold increase in magni­tude. An earthquake of 6 can cause severe damage. 
The initial qttake, at 4:16 
p.m. PDT, was centered 10 miles east of El Centro. The 
• • . Accessories 
continued from page 1 
was stolen from his car Oct. 5. "Someone got into my hood and took the battery out," 
Dunn  said.  I  guess  someone's  battery  ran  out  so  they  
just  looked  around  for  another  one,  and  decided  to  take  
mine."  He estimated the battery's worth at $50.  

Law enforcement officials were generally pessimistic about the chances students have for protecting their automobile equipment. 
"If they (thieves) want a tape deck, there's not much you can do to keep them from breaking in to get it --besides putting your car in a garage," Sgt. Chle­be remarked. 
Terry agreed. "It's pretty hard to protect what you've got -· 'they're going to bust something if they want something in the car," he said. 
He did suggest several options, however, that might lessen the possibility of theft and increase the chance of havin~ stolen items returned by police. One measure he menuoned is the installation of hood locks for cars not equipped with internal hood releases, and the re­cording of serial numbers for expensive equipment such as car stereos. 
[continued from page 12] 
Orioles down easily, allowing one hit the final three innings. The Pirates doubled their lead in the eighth. Ed Ott opened with a single and dashed to third on Phil Garner's ground rule double that bounced into the left field stands. It was the second hit of the game and 11th of the Series for Garner, who also set a World Series record in Tuesday's game by participat 
• • • Pirates 
tremor, the strongest in the 48 continuous states since a 1971 quake in the San Fernando Valley near Los Angeles, was 
felt up to 300 miles away in 
three states and Mexico. Just across the Mexican border 
in Mexicali, where some panic 
was reported in the city's teeming streets, police officer Apulinar Sumaran said many homes were heavily damaged and 30 persons were injured-­mostly by breaking glass. 
ing in his ninth double play. Bill Robinson, who had come 
· into the game in a defensive shift in' the seventh, followed with another secrifice fly to left, and then Moreno, who had left 11 men on base in the first two 
. games of the Series, Delivered and RBI single, making it 4-0. 
The Pirates came out swinging against Palmer from the start. Moreno bounced a single up the middle on the game's first pitch and Foli doubled of the glove of third baseman Doug DeCinces making a sharp ~ackhand stop to throw the batter out as the runners held. Then, Stargell also went after :he first pitch, popping out. John Milner was the first Pirate h: tter to take a pitch and finally bounced out, 
, ending the threat. Baltimore had :.ts best shot at Candelaria in the first when Garcia opened with a single and moved to second on a one-out single by Ken Singleton, who had three singles in the game. But Eddie Murray liit into a rally-killing double play. 
Baseball 

WORLD SERIES· GAME 6 
Pittsburgh -4, Baltimore -0 
Pitts_burgh 3 -3 Baltimore 3 -3 
Tonight's Game 

Pittsburgh)Bibby) at Baltimore)Martinez) 
On the Air 
SPORTS LINE 

With Paul Mullaney, Greg Meredith, and Brian Beglane. Special Guest Steve Cichy 11PM -12 midnight on WSND-64. 
Wednesday, October 17, 1979-pag~,~
The Observer -S1~rts 
''Supposedly, swinging slight­tries to k~ep talking to him­ly upward is the ony way to self.'' _ 
Womens' volleyball 
make direct head-on contact ,Althou$h concentnition on the 
with the ball." pitch is a must, Williams also 
"Yet Ted was a natural hitter thinks the situation plays a 
and had the power and preci­critical role at the plate, as
• • . Tips Belles fall to St. Francis 
sion to swing upward and make Kelly concurs. solid contact,'' opines Kelly ''The batter must be aware of 
[continued from page 12] 
Dame. 
''There are many things the hitter must do mechanically, and whether you agree wieh his views or not, he is very wchni­cal. If nothing else, Ted .really makes you think about hittin~.'' 
In many points of his himng philosophy, Williams concurs with the opinions of other great batters and teachers. 
''Ted stressed the position of the hands and hips as wdl as where the pitch 1s," inseructs Kelly, gripping a ghostly bat in his hands to demonstrate. 
Then swinging slowly as a phantom pitch was delivered, Kelly focused on the bar.rel of his imaginary lumber. "The angle you hit the ball at is very important as well. It all boils down to where you are and where the ball is at a given instant. In thisrespect, Ted differed little from contempor­ary thought." 
Yet therewasone major differ­
ence that Kelly was immediate­
ly struck with. "Ted proposed 
that all hitters should swing up 
slightly rather than down 
slightly as we. usually teach,'' 
offers Kelly as he cocks his 
phantom bat to demonstrate the 
different ~lanes of swing. 
"His rauonale was that since 
the pitcher was above the batter, 
the ball would be travdling 
down slightly,'' remarks Kelly 
as he traces the path of th'e ball 
from his raised nght hand to his 
lowered left. 
thoughtfully. "For younger hitters, we always stress swing­ing slightly downward, because until they acquire the coordina­tion necessary to make that contact, they are more likely to just pop the ball up for an easy out rather than getting a line drive or a bounder through the infield." 
''Of course, your chances are better if you swing straight on at the ball,'' concedes Kelly. 
Crossing the imaginary planes of his palms he adds, "Swing­ing on a level other than the one the ball is coming at naturally reduces the probability of con­tact between bat and ball. " 
But Williams is quick to point out that there is a mental as well as a mechanical side to hitting. "To get the most of his talent the batter must concen­trate," Kelly notes. "The more he concentrates, the better able he is to see the spin on the ball and the ball itself.'' 
Kelly q'!,ickly recalls Carl Ya­strzemskt s recent appearance on the AM America show: "At the age of 40, Yaz has found it tougher to concentrate because after so long you mind begins to wander at the plate. He just exactly what the count is and what the pitcher is trying to do at that pomt. The batter must take advantage of his time at the plate." 
''A two-one count is entirely different from a two-two count. In the first case ·the batter has the edge, but it belongs to the pitcher in the latter instance," explains Kelly. 
Yet for Williams, concentra­tion seems to have mechanical roots, as Kelly relates: ''Hitting the ball a fraction off-center makes a world of difference as to where it will go. Thus, hip and hand position become criu­cal, as does the angle and position of contact,'' Kelly con­vinces as he digs in at the imaginary plate on the floor. ­
"All in all, there is not much room for error in hitting." 
But William'& personal clinic soon came to an end as a departing flight awaited Kelly. As he boarded the plane for South Bend, Kelly left with some new ideas and many reaffirmed old ones. And, havin~ shaken hands and ex­changmg a few words with a sports legend, he naturally had the lasting memories. 
For South Carolina Rally remains in limbo 
Rick Pinkowski, pep rally the Student Activities Office or chairman, is seeking student the Student Government Office. reaction to ajep rally tentative­
Unless enough interest is dis­ly schedule for Friday, Oct­played the pre-South Carolinaober 26. Students are urged to rally win be cancelled. 
respond with a note to either 
St. Mary's volleyball team The Belles will match up dropped its ninth match of the against Creighton University season Monday, falling to St. tonight in the Angela Athletic Francis 13-15, 15-10, 15-5, Facility. 15-13 in a best of 5 series. 
"We should have never lost '7 this match. I think the team is 
Interhall 
in somewhat of a slump," stated Belle's coach Erin Murphy. "I hope that the girls 
sign-ups
will get down to business soon and start playing well as I know they can," concluded Murphy. 
end today
After the match Murphy commented on a switch in the SMC lineup, Mary Laughlin Today is the last day for made her debut against St. sign-ups in six intramural ac­Francis as a setter. According tivities. Those six activities to Murphy, "She did a good are lnterhall Handball, Inter­job, she heeds work, but is hall Racquetball, Grad.-Faculty enthusiastic." Racquetball. Co.-Rec. Volley-
Murphy also gave credit to ball, Co.-Rec. Basketball, and Peggy Pieschel for her de-'Faculty Volleyball. Sign-ups fensive play and hustle against are bffieing held in the inter-St. Francis. ha11o tee. 
..-----------------..
·I JUST FOR THE RECORO I 1 In the 100 Center 1 I offera 10% off on I
I I
EVERYTHING 
1 with ID & coupon 1 RECORDS, TAPES, . parapherna II~ . 
J

L---------------­


Detroit Club 
Meeting Wednesday Oct. 17th LaFortune Little Theatre 



Once in awhile so1meone fights back. 



11 ••• AND JUSTICE FOR ALe JACK WARDEN'. JOHN FORSITHE and LEE STRASBERG 
Music by DAVE GRUSIN Lyrics by ALAN & MARILYN BERGMAN Written by VALERIE CURTIN & BARRY LEVINSON Executive Producer JOE WIZAN Produced by NORMAN JEWISON & PATRICK PALMER Directed by NORMAN JEWISON ~ 

ESTAICTED  ~  Read The Ballantine Paperback  A Columbia Pictures Release  ..,.  
R17 REQUIRES ACCOMPANYING  Colo•mbia  
ARENT OR AOULTGUAROIAN  © 1171 COLUMBIA'JOtCTURES IINDIISTRIES,INC. Pictures  

Starts Oct. 19th at the Forum in South Bend, and the Concord in Elkhart . 
• 
The Observer Wednesday, October 17, 1979 -page 10 
The Saint Mary's snack bar form informally before· friends, In addition to the entertain­will serve as a coffee house much the way Notre Dame's ment, the coffee house will also,· 
St. Mary's tonight from 8:30 to 10:30 p.m. Nazz nightclub operates. offer food and drinks to visitors. through the efforts of the The coffee house will be ] ean acton is the chairperson of 
Student Activities Program­opened one Wednesday a the entertainment commitee. 
ming Board and project co­month until the end of the Tonight's entertainment will 
. Unrest

coffeehouse ordinator Mary Ellen Connelly. semester, Connelly explained, be provided by Kari Meyer and • • 

Connelly explained that the adding that, if the concept Chrp Michelli. 
coffee house concept will give proves popular, it may be opens students an opportunity to per-expanded in the future. 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli 

masquetade Patty In the Dining Hall Wednesday Oct. 31 9-2 · Lafortune 
ACC CONCOURSE Prizes for Best Costume lndividuo.l S15 
J3 a Ticket includes 1 mixed dtink OPEN CASH BAR ot 2 beets 
COSTUmES A mUST 
continued from page 1 
ion in the new government's ruling junta. 
The colonels dissolved the lt;gis~ature, promis~ng a redist­nbuttn of the nauon's wealth and a "moderate and eminently democratic'' government. 
SG announces 
banner 
regulations 
Student Government has announced that all students must have their banners ap­proved prior to the USC game. DistastefuL banners will not be allowed on the field. Security will be on the field tQ confiscate unapproved banners. 
A Student Givernment task force will review the banners in the LaFortune; Rathskeller on Friday from 3:30 -5 p.m. and on Saturday from 9:30 -10:30 a.m.. All approved banners will be collected and transport­ed to gate 17 to the stadiun where students may pic them up 15 minutes into the half. Students will also be issued special half-time passes allow­ing them on the field. Banners will be paraded on the nort~ end of the field towards the end of ihe half. This will be the only way for students to get their banner on TV. 

Classifieds 
Whoever stole my brown backpack from .~.,.J •..., SMC Science· building, give it back.
·Notices 
Idon't care who you are. Please return all those things that are useless to you. Call Usa Harless 234-7389 
USED BOOK SHOP. OPEN WED., SAT., SUN. ~7. RALPH CASPERSON 1303 BUCHANAN RD. NILES. 683-2888 
LOST: One Beige V-neck sweater with lapels. If found please call Jim at MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
2n-3007 before 8:30 a.m. Last day to apply for loans before Fall break Is October 18. ?2D-?200. Due In one month. 1 percent interest charge. Found: One Biage sweater without 
lapels. [How about a trade?) Call Jim at ffl-3fJ97 before 8:30 a.m. Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 271-tl296. 
LOST: TAN AND BROWN GLASSES 
CASE WITH CONTACT CASE AND Will do typing. Neat-accurate Call: CONTACTS WITHIN. 4·4813 287·5162 
LOST: One navy blue sweater with keys 
Attention: Knights and Ladles of & I. D. In the pocket at Gulseppe's Friday Columbus WE NEED YOU-· for steak night. REWARD OFFERED. Call 4629 sales and lollipop sales. We'll be running 
four lines at steak sales and need LOST: Green Rugby jacket with keys on members to help out. Remember all penknife. Reward. Brian 289-9697 proceeds go to Corvilla. Also we need salespeople for "Lick U.S.C." lollipops. LOST: Scrimshaw pendent with picture of 
Proceeds for this event are going to sailboat engraved, approx. W' diameter 
numerous other charities and organiza· was agife and it means much more to me 
tions in the South Bend area. Lend a than it does to you. $$ Reward offered 
hand and help raise money for those less John 3277. fortunate than ourselves. Be at the council at 8:00 a.m. Saturday so we can LOST: Silver Cross on chain, Friday at get started. And don't worry. you won't the Rock. If found Please call 1609. miss kickoff! Thank you. 
ANYONE INTERESTED IN RUNNING A REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CAM, 
For Rent 
PAIGN FOR THE MOCK CONVEN, TION' CALL KEVIN 1166 
Live Oct. Free for Rent: Campus View apt. for rent with 3 male students. $100.00 month. All utilities included.
Lost&Found 
Call Brian 2n-5072. 
Lost. White Samoyd puppy on Friday FOR RENT: Female roommate wanted toafternoon from outside Huddle. Answers sublet campus view apt. Live with 3other
to name "Hero". $25 Reward for 
girls, $100/month, all utilities included. 
recovery. Mica 25&-5879 Call Kathy 283-1320. 
PAY NO MONEY during October $n.501 
Found: Man's watch, between Grace and month afterwards-MULTIPLE VACANC· the Ubrary. Found Thursday night. Call IES NO. Apt. Call Jamie 283-1187.1m to Identify. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00 p.m.. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Obsemr office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail. 
MODELS WANTED. Local Professional Need ride to Chicago (0 Hare) any time agency recruiting new models. Appli· after USC game on Oct. 20. Will pay all
For Sale 

cants must be good looking. dependable, tolls. Rod 8333. fashionable and professional minded. 
For Sale: Two USC·G.A. 's Best Offer Ph. 1423 
2United Airlines coupons for sale. call Barry (after 11 :00) at 2752 
2 Kansas Tix for sale. Will sell below cost! Call Kevin 1608 
/&1% Chev. Klngswood Estate Wagon High Mileage; $350. 8982, or 8986 
Two Kansas Tickets for Sale-Both $10 • Tony 233·6208 
1971 Vega 4-speed, $450. Runs Good. Call 233-2873. 
Refrigerator for Sale unused, 2.2 cu ft. $1 00/best offer 8670 
2 Clanton car speakers for Sale $25 ph. 8670 
For sale: Bar Blue and White 11/2 X4' X 
3 112' $20 6931 
By alumnus-2 Bedroom house 1136 E. Sorin (near Corby's) Drive by, call Jim Licata 312 312-472-0879. Make offer. 
For Sale United Airlines 1/2 fare Coupons, $45 each 234-2880 
For Sale; 1 USC student ticket. Best offer call Mike 3467 
For sale : Bic T-2 Two speed cassette deck. $200 or best offer call Pete 3331 
2Kansas and 2 Homecoming tix. Cheap! Mike 232·5593 
Please sell Ime 1student ticket to USC or else I have to sit next to Billy Cuddy and watch it on T.V. Call 233-6090 
Experience not needed. For information on interview date Call MODELS, Inc. at 272-1036 between 12pm and 4pm. 
Buspersons and dishpersons needed­Male or Female. Apply at the Carriage House 24460 Adams Road. 272-9220. 
Will pay cash for photographs of opening school mass. Oct. 9, 1979. Call6385 M·F 8:3D-4:30. Needed for Publication. 
WANTED-28 USC Tix. I'm paying the price you'll like. Call Quality Inn (SB) and ask for Bill Dandridge. 
WANTED-Used speakers. will pay reasonable price, call 233-5524. 
OVERSEAS JOBS· Summer/year round. Europe, S. America. Australia, Asia, Etc. All Fields, $500-$1200 monthly. Ex­penses paid. Sightseeing. Free info­Write: IJC, Box 52·14 Corona Del Mar. CA 92525 
GA's, Student Tix, Tunnelling Equip­ment. If you have anything that will get 4 people into the USC game I'll buy it. Call James 277-2652. 
Need ride to Denver for break. Dave 0. 1502. 
Need ride to Indy immediately after USC game. Tom-7912. . 
Need ride> to Tennessee Game Nov. 9. Will share expenses. Call MaryAnn 41·4337 
I need a ride to anywhere near pough­keepsie, NY or Danbury, Conn. For Oct. 
HELP. Need one or two rides to St. Bonaventure for October -Break. Call Jean at 8075. 
Need ride to Twin Cities area over break. Call Paul 8269. 
Need ride to Indy immediately after USC game. Tom -7912. 
Need ride to Dayton area on October 18th or 19th Call Kate 41·5220. 
Desperate need ride to Buffalo or Rochester NY. For October break. Call Paul at 1038. 
Going to or near Pittsburgh over break? I'll share expenses prefer to leave before USC game. Call Matt 234-5284. 
2 SMC girls need ride to Wash DC area for Oct. Break. will share expenses. Call Betsy 5129 Mary 4954. 
I want to go home for NO-Tennessee! Need as many tix as possible. Please Help! MaryLynn 4747-SMC 
Need ride to Philadelphia area for Oct. Break. MaryBeth 5732. -SMC 
Need a ride to College Park MD area for Oct. Break. Willing to share expenses. Please Help. Call Kathy·SMC 4349 
MINNESOTA need ride to .Twin City area. Can leave Fri.. Sat or Sun. Call Tim 4339. Will share driving and gas. 
Need ride to Buffalo for break. Pleas Call Usa 8144. 
Need ride to Rochester NV for October break. Please call Jan 8144. 
Need ride to Denver Colorado for Oct. 

Break. will share driving and expenses. Break. Wi!l share driving and expenses.PI ease call 3501 . 
Call Bob at 1682.

Wanted Fellow Oklahomans·I need aride to OKC Needed: Room in car trunk for Misc. New Jersey Club Happy Hour at Gooses. alter the USC game and to be back before Items going ba~ to campus from NJ Fri., Oct.19th 10am-6pm All are welcome S. Car. game. Will share expenses or go willing to pay $. Call Don 6756. in on a rental car. Phil. 8303. 
~-~ ~--~-...... 
The Observer Wednesday, October 17, 1979-page 11 



Classifieds  •All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two dayslir'ijff' to the issue in which the ad is run. Till Obltrvlr office will accept classifleds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mall.  
Must get home for party on Sunday, II Papa returns for the USC game needingOctober 21. Need ride to Boston area three GA tlx, anywhere. Money isbefore or after USC game li:all !iteve obviously no object. Call 288-24841723. Need Southern Cal Tickets. Will pay topPLEASE 2 need ride to Boston area for dollar. Call Joe after 10. 233-6024.Break. Share usual. Kathy 1296, Jinl 1331. Need 2 GA Navy Tickets call John 233-6370HELP. Need ride out West (Denver) for break. Share the usual. Call Dianne Desperate: Need 4 GA South Carolina­288-3882. Name your price. Call Paul 234-6353 Need ride to Pittsburgh preferably after USC game. Will share driving and Needed: Two Pairs of Southern Cal GA's expenses. Call 8680. will pay $100 a pair. Call 8203 or 7018 Ride needed to Cincinnati area for break. Need 2or 4 GA Tickets for So. Carolina.Will share expenses. Call Mark 3164. Call Bi II, 288-5784 Cocaine courrier needs driver for run to Give away Grand Old Opry tix inNO from Wash, DC. after break. co:1tact exchange will buy any number of GARobert 1729 Tenn. tix. CAll evenings collect. 1-615­352-3669.Need ride to Minnesota. Will s.hare expenses. Lynn 6803. Need 1 USC Ticket [student or GA] Nick 233-6249.FLORIDA-OR-1-75 Riders Wanted Call 3659 I need two GA tickets for Navy game callANYONE GOING THRU NE Ohio on way 11J1ichelle 291-1598back to NO 10/28? Will meet you and will ing to share expenses. Call Bob at :1230. I NEED ONE GA ticket for South Carolina. Will pay good bucks. CAllNeed ride to Dayton area on Thursday, 3050Oct. 18or early Friday Oct. 19. Call Kate at 41-5220. Will share expenses and driving. Need 2 GA Tickets to USC Gamt. Call John 1851Desperately need ride to Long lslan•j for Oct. Break. Willing to share drivin~ and Wanted: Necessary • 2 South Carolinaexpenses. Call Brian. 8994. GA's separate seats okay. Jim 6802 Anyone passiAg thru or leavin!l from Strack's on a rampage...stop this mad­Pittsburgh on way to NO on 10/28'? I will ness by selling him your USC and/ormeet you and share expenses. Call Dion Tenn Tix! Call John at 234-5284at 3642. Thanks. Desparately need 2 GA South CarolinaNeeded: Ride to Cincinnati Friday Oct. Tlx Call Jake 318019th. Please Call Lee Anne at 1312. Need 2 Navy GA tickets and 1 ClemsonWanted: Two tickets for good seats at ticket. Call5105Kansas Concert. Call Tom 8311. Need GA tickets for Southern cal game.Need ride to 0 Hare airport after U8C or • Will pay big Bucks Call Jane 2113-8012.early morning Sat. Oct. 20. Please: ·call Beth. 6785. Grand Parents' last pllgrlmmage to the Dome. Need Southern Cal Tickets Badly. Call Kevin 3528HI KATHY* JEANNINE AND LISA GUESS WHO? Navy, Need Student and/or GA Navy Tlx. Call Paul 263-6313Need ride to Madison or Milwaukee area after USC -will share expenses. Peggy $Need pairs of GA tickets for S. Carolina$4942 call John 1721 · Need ride to Detroit area after USC Need GA tickets to USC, and Clemson.Cathy 4942 (SMC( Mike 1384 Need ride to ST. Louis. Want to leave Need 3Navy tickets. CAll 256-8301 days,Sun. return Thurs. or Fri. Kate nll. 291-5742 evenings, PLEASE Need ride home from Des Moines, Iowa after October break Oct. 25-28. Will Desperately need 4 GA tickets to Navyshare driving, expenses. Brian 3031!. Game. Call Dick 1224 POOR POOR PITIFUL ME! People arriving this weekend with no USC tickets. Please help this hapless host.Tickets GA's preferred. Call Brien 3062. Two bsc-GA Tickets for sale. Best offer. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR SIX GA Call Melissa 4-1-4561 TICKETS TO SOUTH CAROLINA PHONE 3454 Need Tickets for South Carolina De:;par­ately. Call Tom 234-3301 NEED SOUTH CAROLINA TICKETS. !11: CAN BE YOURS IF YOU HAVE 213 WILL TRADE 2 STUDENTS FOR 1 GA GA USC tickets. [$50 for 2) Call 8050 AND BUY ANOTHER GA FOR MEGA BUCKS. WILL WORK ANY DEAL TO YOUR SATISFACTION. PHONE 3454. Need 2 student or GA Navy Tix. Call Julie-4084 (SMC) Need 6 G A Tix to South Carolina. Wi II pay. Call Herman 233-4972. 1need South Carolina Tickets. Call :1334, ask for Dave Wanted: 1 or 2 GA's to Navy. Call Bill Top dollar for USC Tickets [GA) Please 1108 call Tim 288-2465 $25.00 Need NO-UT football tickets Nov 10. Will pay$25 per. Send tickets C.O.D. to Kurt Please, I need 2 USC GA tlx for my 1025 Sunset DL chattanooga Tenn. 373n parents. Please help. Call 8323 JeH 2 GA's and many student tlx needed for Need two Navy GA tlx. Call Mike, 8382. USC. Money absolutely no object. Pete 8865. Need 4 or 6 GA's to 1South Carolina call Steve 11155 Need 4 GA South Carolina Tickets. Call Chuckles at 3064 -Must have 1or 2 USC Tix. May be tlither Wanted: 2 GA USC Tickets Call Chuck G A or student. Call Tom 12~2. 232-5594. . Desperately need 1,2,3,4 USC tix. For Sale: 4GA the for USC \also, Red East Money No Object. Brian 1644 parking sticker). Please ca I Mary at 4238 [SMC]. Highest offer. Need 4 So. Carolina GA Tlx. Call Mike 1034. Will sell my student Tickets to the Best offer, Call1223 Ask for Charles. Must tiave 2 GA tlx for USC game. Need badly. Call Rick 8698. In need of 6GA &4student tlx to So. Cal. call Pennee SMC 4963. wanted-WANTED! 28 USC tickets. I'm paying the price you'll like. Call Ouality Inn. Ask for Bill Dandridge. . Ned Needs 3-6 GA tickets for South Carolina. Will pay good $. Call 8897 WANTED: GA tickets for any home games. Must be two or more toge,ther. Need 2GA's for Navy Game. Call Brian Cll 287-3311, Danny-Joe 3168.  for sale 2 UIIC tickets at regular pricu. not out to make a profltl call lamps or pate 234-6372. If busy call Jim 232-4719. FOR SALE: 2 GA USC Tickets. Best offer, Chris 8383 Need 2-3 GA's for South Carolina $$$ 8792. Two USC-GA Tickets for Sale. Bast offer. Call Melissa 4-1-4561. Personals Make suckers out of Southern Cal. "Schroomes" Thanks for 1he "screw"--he was a riot! R. P.S. Lobo's been "ringing" your chimes lately? Buy your Pom-poms today, With pom-poms to lead the fight, we will stop Charles White. N.D. Crew­Have a safe trip Good Luck K.F.A., Oil Susie, Any more signs to draw tonight? When are you gonna return my calls so we can go out again. Say hello to the Big Apple for me. Brian Hey 0-C Coaches: The score didn't show It, But you know it. And don't ever forget it, 0-C girls do It better. Thanks for many great times. You guys are the best. Love, Your 0-C girls P.S. Have a golden day! Bart Cox's fence jumping days are over. Yes, he's finally 21 years legal. Watch him use the front door of Senior Bar tonight. Notre Dame lollipops? I thought I'd seen everything! To all of you who made my birthday special--and you each know who you are-thank you! I had abeautiful day... Mary Pat Heineken kegs are the best. I tappa keggg presents the Heineken Tailgater. Look for the sign--USC game. Who Is the Irish Army? Attention! Announcing aspecial appear­ance of the Irish army to night! At your favorit~ dining hall. Beth and the Wed. night staff, Wllat does someone have to do to get a byline in Thursday's paper? Write an article from 700 miles away or some­thing? Mary, Congrats on your successful date. Let's do it again. Wrong Kim Convey is on drugs!! EDITORIAL CARTOONIST is sought by The Observer to prepare satirical artwork on controversial Notre Dame-Saint Mary's subjects. Paid position. Call Ann -Editorial editor 8661 or 2n-4976. Julie, This is the very personalozed personal for which you have long awaited. Me Karen, This is the very personalized personal which won't get you jealous of Julie. Me Julie and Karen, Don't be late for dinner. Him Congrats Burgoon! We're even In print but yours was.a goal. At least your name was spelled correctly. Hockey player Andrea A., BonVoyage!! Have agreat time in Roma! (Say "Hi to JP II for me.) An envious admirer Tim Flood, I dldn 't know you had a sister here!! She's got areally nice roommate. In fact, your sister is really nice, so what happen to you???? (Just kidderin'--how are things? Tell John we'll miss him weekend after break, it's that time of yearagain.) ·  Buy your Porn Poms today.WSND "AM 64 bids you AU-Bowl" with Green and gold everywherenew rock and roll. will make U.S.C. stop and stare. WSND "AM64bids you AU-Bowl" with Two GA's to South Carolina. Fiance and new rock roll. daughter coming. Desperate. Stoney 839ATTENTION! Do you have a friend, a family member Yea St Mary's Field Hockey Team!who has or might have a drinking Congrats to Kellee Ash, Jessie Bennett,problem? There is a group who meets Maureen Campbell, Colleen Harrigan,Tues. noon who share this commom Lisa Keeley, Margaret Kemp, Bonnieproblem. Ext. 8809. Keyes, Nan Krauss, Nancy Lorenzini, Karen Love, Karen McCarter, PattyA massive change Is coming. Meagher, Molly O'Neill, Kelly Sullivan, Patti Tui1e and Coach Ann Deitle. Nicole, Congrats for the wins on Saturday and a Parlez-vous franglais? What do you think super season! For being no fun, we had a of Angers?? Send me a loaf of bread for blast!~ Christmas!! P.S. Mike, your driving and cheering is a Your big sister definite 10. Teresa, LICK , U.S.C: Happy birthday "spazz" from everybody in the zoo. ST. LOUIS CLUB BEER AND PRETZEL Jeanm:, Moe, Joannie, Kate, PARTY Wed. Oct 24, 8:00 -? 7128 S. Caroline. Tricia, Anne and all Rock Hill Road near Grant's farm. Watch the rest of us (40 names is too for upcoming newsletter for more info. many to list!) Teresa, Buy your porn poms today, Have a great 18th birthday. One flick of the wrist, Your loving Brother, Mark will create an evil hiss. Hello Zoo Two Men ot.Fianner's sixth, Need 2 GA for South Carolina. Enjoy Throughout the centuries the down­Break, sell me Tix. Steve 3276 trodden have immutably attempted to mold their own fate: the poor to be riel., G& T Girls [Julie, Mary, Karan): the powerless to be powerful, and the We had a great time, thanks very much. ignorant to be wise. Such is the case with We can't walt till you have another, your feeble attempi at eloquent rhetoric. "late", happy hour. We of Dillon's third floor wish to salute Your Drinkers, your valiant effort and encourage you to Jeff, Tom, Tim continue to strive for existence on our P.S. Tom hopes that Julie will forgive and plateau. Who knows, perhaps you can forget. surpass your own limited potential. Take heart Flanner, Don Ouiote never quit. Dress like trash add some class at the The Obnoxious Club monster mash! · Third Floor Dillon PITTSBURGH CLUB , THERE WILL NOT BE A BUS LEAVING SATURDAY Notice to the N.D.-S.M.C. Community: NIGHT. ALL BUSES WILL LEAVE All classifieds are to be purchased (2) two ND/SMC ON SUNDAY, OCT. 21, 9:110 days before you want them to appear. am. (ex; If you want the ad to appear on Friday, you MUST place it no later than HOW CAN I LICK THAT WHOLE Wedn~Jsday.) Thank You!!! THING? GREEN GREEN Ellen, Gary, Martha, Mom, and nancy, GREEN GREEN 1 j1,1st had to take time out from my GREEN GREEN studies to let you know r,ou're one helluva GREEN GREEN family, and that you II all be In my GREEN GREEN .prayers on Sunday. GREEN GREEN Love, Paula P.S. Gary, a special thanks for Friday Want to go to the Kansas concert with a night; that'll get you thirds for Thanks­gosh-darned great guy? Call Bob (BC) at giving dinner. 3324. To the wild flower man In Cavanaugh • Jack, Thanks tor the wonderful time Friday Good luck on Econ tomorrow. I know you night. You still don't disgust meI can get an A. Tammy C.B. P.S. Watch out for security men down In sunny Florida. WATCHI Forthalrisharmy. GO IRISHInu.s.c1 ...,.,... --­. ., • · Buy your Porn Poms today To trounce USC create apam pam sea Monotheistic DOCTRINE of Reincarna­tion in the Torah, the Prophets and the Happy Birthday Nancy. Hope this Is your Gospels. Write: The Truth of Islam, best year ever. You're a peach. P.O. Box 4494, South Bend, IN 46624. The Boys In 8-C Buy your pom-poms today. Uve...From St. Mary's...thls Is College Ferguson will be gaining, Bowl! Individual and team registration As our colors are waving. continues In the Office of Student Minority Rights Forum Wed. Oct. 17, 8Activities, LaMans through Friday, Oct p.m. Washington Hall.19th. Contestants, judges, moderators time and score keepers needed. Have you gotten your STU:S.C. spirit button yet? If not hurry! Sea your IrishTracey, army Rep today.Thanks again for all your help with my tire. Happy Birthday, Tom. Looking forward The Saucey Wench to giving you your present; you're no longer jailbait! Love, Lisa from Univer­Dear St. Christopher, sity of Florida. After Senior Bar tonight, don't be astonixhed if you see a few floating Coffee House at SMC Snack Bar-Wed­castles.of your own! Happy 21st!! I will nesday 8:30-10:30 SPECIALS. keep you in my Illicit prayers on this day. Signed: the girl who's hardly Scholastic needs help. Take that tor what the type to have avision it's worth. Come to our Writers' meeting, Wednesday, 6:30pm, 3rd floor 50 cents for a thousand licks LaFortune. Dear Hog, (capitol letters), Still need ride to Omaha after USC, call I wish you would change your name to Coiln--8736. LOG. LOB Need riders to Rochester or Buffalo. Leaving Friday 1:OOp.m. Call 8368. WSND "AM 64 bids you all bowl" with new rock and roll. Will trade room reservation at Holiday Inn, Friday Saturday for USC tlx. Call Show us your smarts, 8368. St. Mary's. Register for College Bowl in the Office of Student Activities, LeMans. TANK AND BORKY: Deadline is Friday, October 19th. Because y'all missed our Sunday night session, we did 1 quart of Dramboule. .Support the Knights of Columbus, sucker Better start soon. We may be losln' H. sale (no, we're not selling Tex). the Splc and Cllt Mom and Dad, Welcome back to N.D. Buy your Pam Poms today Love, K. A green and gold wave will wash USC away. Dearest Frankie: Anna,Ready for your lobster dinner? Atoast to tile classiest C01JIIot I've everHugs and Kisses, had the honor te fly with. YCIIII' constantAReds Fan humble semllt. llobP.S. Get ready for an exciting break!!  


--------~ ~·~

Wednesday, October 17, 1979 -page 12
SRorts 
Cllamps to be crowned tonight 
Pirates force seventh game 
BALTIMORE (AP) -Dave one run in 19 innings. Their jam against the same two 
Parker and Willie Stargell, the slumbering bats proved fatal to hitters. This time, however, he 
power part of Pittsburgh's line­starter Jim Palmer, who pitch-didn't get away. 
up, drove in a pair of seventh­ed a creditable game, matching Parker, who carried a .429 
inning runs to ignite the Pirates Candelaria's shutout through Series bating average into this 
attack as they tied the 1979 the ftrst six innings. game, drilled a single past 
World Series at three games Candelaria, who has been second baseman Rich Dauer, 
apiece by defeating Baltimore troubled by back and rib cage scoring Moreno with the 
4-0 in Tuesday mght's sixth injuries, was lifted for pinch -games's ftrst run and sending 
game. hitter Lee Lacy leading off the Foli scampering to third. A 
It was die second straight seventh as the Pirates sought to moment later, Stargell got the victory for the Pirates and get something going against second run home with a forced the Series to a decisive Palmer. Bur Lacy struck out as sacriftce fly to left fteld. seventh game Wednsday night, a capacity Memorial Stadium Finally 10 front, Pittsburgh Scott McGregor, the winner in crowd of 53,739 roared its went to the ace of its bullpen, Game Three, will pitch for the aJ?proval. Soon, however, the the Lanky, bespectacled Baltimore Orioles possibly Ptrates silenLed the crowd. Tekulve. He had been ripped in against Jiin Bibby, who started Speedy Omar Moreno, critictz-Game Four -!he vic!im of t~e Game Four· but was not in­ed for his P.oor hitting in earlier 1 bulk of that b~g ~altt~ore SIX­volved on the decision for games, drliled his second hit of fl:ln rally. Thts ttme, It was a Pittsburg~. the night, a single to right. The dtfferent story ll:s he moweq the 
Left-bander John 
on a hit-and-run play, Tim Foli --====~[c=o~n~t.=tn=u=e~d~o~n~p~a~g~e~B!:]====================================== 
Candelaria and bullpen ace bounces a ball up the middle. -= 
Kent Tekulve combined for the Orioles shortstop Kiko Garica seven-hit shutout -the ftrst of tried to fteld the ball and keepthe Series -as Pittsburgh kept his foot on the base for the force 
Kelly hopes Williams' tips help Irish irs chances going to become the play on Moreno. But he fourth team to recover from a succeeded in neither, and the 
few words interchanged are premiere players in baseball. I
by Bill Marquard 

3-1 game deftcitand win a best­ball squirted through for a often a lasting memory. Yet to had heard him talk at a few
Sports Writer 

of seven Series. single. 
actually sit down and talk to clinics, but I had never spokenSince sebring six runs in the That set the Pirate's table with To meet a contemporary that sports great for two hours to him one-on-one." 
eighth inning of Game Four, big guns Parker and Stargell sports legend face to face is could be nothing more than a By way of introduction, Kellythe Orioles have fallen into a coming up. In the f.rrst inning, quite an experience for most 
dream for the average person. explained that he was the base­dreadful. slump, managing just Palmer had escaped a similar people. Just a handshake and a But for Irish baseball coach ball coach at the University of 
Tom Kelly, that dream became Notre Dame. 
a reality. ''He was certainly well aware 
Held over at Chicago's O'Hare of not only our athletic program, 
airport while returning from a · but our strong tradition as
Hannigan provides ·mornenturn 
collegiate coaching clinic in San well," remarks the ftfth-year Francisco last January, Kelly head coach. 
walked over to an airport snack But Williams' real passion isby Mike Previte 3-0 lead. Matt O'Brien then with some inspired second half bar during a two-hour break hitting. Having studied hitting Sports Writer passed adeJ?tly to Steve Iselin play. 
between flights. sitting in a and hitters for years, he iswho forged 10 for the ftrst try of The "C" game proved to be a boothwasTed Williams, Hall of virtually a scientist of the artMomentum. How may times the game. Zidar's two point hat trick in the Irish victory Farner and professor of hitting. and could discuss it for hours on has it decided pivotal contests? conversion kick made it 9-0 column as Notre Dame ran up "Naturally, my f.rrst reaction end.
Like Notre Dame in the Cotton' Irish before Xavier got on the three unanswered trys on route was a doubletake, '' recalls Kel­''Basically he is interested inBowl of 1979, or Baltimore·10 board just as the half ended.. to a 12-0 shutout of Xavter·. 
ly with a smile. "I had watched what makes a good hitter, " the six-run eighth inning of "Hannigan's run turned It Mike Flaherty and Steve Staff Ted play during many sum­explains Kelly, who himselfSaturday's Series game, it often around for us," noted Rico pushed across tallies for N.D., 
mers, and I particularly re­earned a PhD in educationaltakes a single outstanding play Haroer, "We were down in whose contest versus the member the annual end-of-the­administration from Notre
to spark that elusive feeling of spirits at halftime but a nice alumni on Saturday is the last year Red Sox/Yankees series."being 'on the way to victory', play Ly one of your teammates of the season. [continued on page 9 ]
''He was certainly one of the
tha feeling of collectivity, of always seems to give a team a being a team of destiny. lift!" Brian Hannigan's 20 yard run Momentum. That elusive, 
Little Frankie's list 

did just that early in the second cherished commodity. half of Saturday's "A" rugby Taking Hannigan's cue, Brian match, as it opened the gates Tucker and Joe Witcher added for two more scores and an trys late in the game to account 
All I wa~t for X -1nas is to beat SC 
eventual 21-6 victory over visit-for the ftnal of 21-6. Witcher, iing Xavier. The Irish back playing for the injured O'Brien bobbed and weaved his way (back), pulled off a 30 yard ~un You better watch out! through a half dozen would-be down the sidelines. The Insh Stay on your feet! tacklers to give Notre Dame a A's thus ended their fall cam­Frank
Tackle him low 

seven point cushion after Xa-paign on a wihning note wh!le or you're gonna get beat! v;er had copped the Irish lead to evening the season slate wtth LaGrotta
Charlie White is coming to town. 
Sports Writer

'J-6 at the half. three wins and three losses. The Irish opened the scoring The "B" ruggers used late 
I'II tell you right now, I'd feel a lot better if it
in the contest with a a penalty trys by Mike Derosiers and J~ff them.) 
was Santa Claus that was coming to town this
kick by Jim '.Z' Zidar ftnding irs Kurtz to nip Xavier 8-4 while -100 copies of the Sports Illustrated issue with 
weekend. He's a lot slower and much more 
way through the uprights for a Brian McManus led the charge_ Vagas Ferguson on the cover. (You can send 
generous than the boys from Southern Cal. But 
those to Charlie, too-I hear he's burning them.) 
~~~~~~~~ 
don't get your hopes up because it's only 
-59075 green jersies (The was I ftgure it, we
October and Christmas is two long months away. 
won 49-19 two years ago and only the football 
Of course, with a little luck (and a couple seats 
team was wearing green. This year, if everyone 
on the SO) the fat old guy might be persuaded to 
in the stands wears green ... ) 
make an early visit to South Bend. Just to be 
-Three Pac 10 officials that know the difference 
safe, 1 sent him my Christmas list early. 
between a fumble and a forward pass. -Ten bottles of diet pills for the Southern Cal offensive line.
Dear Santa, 

How are you? Did you enjoy your summer? -Four G.A. tickets (for my family, Santa, hear you spent some time with Jimmy Carter. I honest!) must say, tt sure was nice of you to give hir.n that -Three inches of snow (green snow if you can Middle East peace treaty. Almost as ntce as arrange it.) when you gave him the Midwest in the 1976 -A private showing of Knute Rockne--All election. (By the way .. .I was sure glad to hear Amencan on the Southern Cal ream plane. Jerry Ford ftnally stopped sending you hate 
mail.) That's about it, Santa. I hope I don't sound 
But the reason I'm writing is because I heard greedy, because all I really want is a Notre you were coming in for Saturday's game and I Dame win (and the four tickets.) ftgured, if it won't cause any problems or Thanks a lot for your time and I'II be sending anything, that you might ftt a couple of e3:rly you an update before December 25. Christmas presents in your sack for me. Noth10g much, just: Your friend, 
-300 yards for Vagas Ferguson Frank -25 yards for Charlie Whtte . . -100 copies of the Sports Illustrated tssue wtth 
P.S. You might want to leave your red coat and
Charlie and Billy Sims on the cover. (You can 
Rudolph's nose at home. ,
just send those to Charlie -I hear he's collecting 


• 






