• • . Hockey Extra, pages 7 10 

Health Service reports rise in ,,iral infections 
by Sal Granata 

At least 15 students reported to the infirmary over the past two days complaining of stomach ailments. 
Dr. Robert Thompson of the Student Health Services (SHS) sai~ in a telephone interview last night he thought the probl~m was gastroenteritis--a viral infection of the stomach and tntesnnes. 
Gastroenteritis is contagious. Although at least 15 students were reported SJ?en~ing last nig~t. at the i~ftr~ary, many returned to their dormltones after recetvtng medtcanon. 
"We are seeing an awful lot of viral infections these days. Students fatigued from exams and feeling very tired and run down are prone to catch the infection,'' Thompson said. 
Symptoms of the illness include, an abrupt onse~. fo~lowed by nausea, vomitting, stomach cramps, fever, and dtarrhea, Thom_pson reported. 
''Thts type of thing we see sporadically throughout the school year, sometimes it peaks," he_ said. Commenting on the number of students admitted to the mftrmary, Thompson observed that "the number is high but not extr~mely ~igh." . . . 
At present the SHS believes the tllness m gastroennenttes, but a rouune check of the dining halls has been undertaken. Edward Riley from the Office ofSafety and Health Administration initiated the check under the direction of Thompson. 
Riley contacted Bob Robinson, director of Food Services at 7:30 
a.m. yesterday morning and began running analfses of ~unday'_s menu. No results have been announced, but Robmson satd that tt is up to Thompson to decide whether the dining halls have anything to do with _the recen~ outbreak. . . . . 
Luis Alverez, aJ uruor from Ftsher Hall, descnbed his expenence 
[continued on page 4] 

Northern A1exico affected 


Earthquake jolts Southern California 
CALEXICO CAIJF. (AP)-A powerful earthguake struck Southern Calfornta and part of Mexico yesterday, buckling buildings, wrecking water sys­tems and swaying skyscrapers as far away as Las Vegas and Los Angeles. At least 76 persons were injured, authori­ties said. 
One death was reported in Mexicali, Mexico, but there were no immediate reports of deaths in California, The ftve-second eathquake was the strongest in the Imperial Valley since 1940, the U.S. Geological Survey said. 
''There was window glass all over the streets. Manequins were piled up in the (store) windows and chimneys were down, "said Dorothy Shook, 55 a store owner in El Centro, one of the hardest hit communities. 
Seismologists at California In­stitute of Technology in Pasa­dena said the 4:16 p.m. tem­blor, measuring 6.4 on the Richter scale and centered 10 miles east of here on the Mexican border, was followed by a series of aftershcoks meas­uring more than 3.0 on the Richter scale. The National Earthquake Center in Golden, Colo., measured 1:he major quake at 6.5. 
The earthquake was felt as far north as Los Angeles, 150 miles from the epicenter -jostling the 62-story United California Bank Building downtown-and in the high-rise hotels on the Las Vegas Strip. 
El Centro Police Sgt. Max Richardson and Imerial County sheriff's deputies said at least 60 injured person were being treated at three hospitals -Calexico, El Centro Community and Pioneer Memorial hospitals in nearby Brawley. 
''There were no serious injur­ies," said Alex Smith, admini­strator at El Centro Community Hospital. "We have light cas­ualties, buml?s and bruises, minor lacerations ... The most serious injury was a laceration that did not take stitches. Most have been treated and released, but some are still here.'' 
The Imperial County Fire De­partment declared a county­wide state of emergency. At least 20 rural bridges were reported wreqced in the valley, and the roofs ~f many houses collapsed. 
Everett Blizzard, deputy direc­tor of the state Office of Emergency Services in Sacra­mento, satd there was "major damage" to the All-American Canal. The canal is a major supplier of water for the re­gion's crops. 
In Brawley, a water tower tumbled to the ground and several trailers were knocked from their foundation. 
About 200 people were evacut­ed from the Imperial County Services Building in El Centr() ­an 8-year-old structure that was supposedly earthquake proof-after the building drop­p~d 1112 feet and listed 3 feet to one side. Nearly all the windows on one side of the ftve story structure were broken. 
Across the border in Mexicali, 
Lionel Rios, a Red Cross offici­
al said one person was killed 
a~d 16 others were injured by 
the earthquake. 
Several persons were injured 
by falling glass fr~)f!l ~indows, 
but none of the tn)unes were serious, said Miguel Suarez Orozco, editor of the newspaper 
La Voz de Ia Frontera. 
Electric !?ower was knocked out in Mextcali, the editor said, but there were no reports of widespread damage to build­ings. 
The most recent strong earth­quake in California was the 5.9 Richter tremor that caused some damage and sent about a dozen persons to hospitals in Hollister in the northern part of the state Aug. 6. 
On May 13, 1949, the U.S. Geological Survey said, an earthquake in the Imperial Val­ley killed nine persons and disrupted the water supply to the valley's crops, causing con­siderable losses. 

A small landslide was report­
ed in Balboa Park 10 San Dtego, 
said Otto Boss, an aide to San 
Diego Mayor Pete Wilson. 
The Richter scale is a measure 
of ground motion as recorded' 
on seismographs. Every in­
crease of one number means a 
tenfold increase: in magnitude. 
A reading of 7. 5 reflects an 
earthquake 10 times stronger 
than one of 6.5. 
An earthquake of 3. 5 on the 
Richter scale can cause slight 
damage in the local area, · 4 
moderate damage, 5 consider­
able damage, 6 severe damage. 
A 7 reading is a "major" 
earthquake, capable of v.:ide­
spread heavy damage; 8 ts a · "great" quake, capable of tre­1 mendous damage. 
Dx:ument spurs Pinto controversy 
CHICAGO ~AP)-The Ford Motor Co. fo.lowed a practiceof not issuing reports on random­ly tested Pmto automobiles from the assemblf 'line that failed to meet federal safety standards, a Ford document shows. 
This practice, a federal official said yesterday, "sounds like a cover-up." ­
The Chicago Tribune reported that a Nov. 27, 1972, memo written by F.]. Finkenauer Jr., then manager of Ford's body­testing department, said the procedure was ''somewhat questionable." 
Frank Armstong, director of the National Highway, Traffic Safety Administration's office of vehicle safety com(>lia,qce in Washington D.C. satd m an interview yesterday he has not seen the document cited by the newspap.er. But he said he told the Tn"bune, ''This sounds like a cover-up to me." 
Armstong added, "We cer­tainly will look at these things and investigate. . . It sounded Sl,lspicious, but you can't evalu­ate this stuff over· a telephone." He said thenewspaper proba­bly would provide him a copy of , the document. After checking ' it he said, he might recommend 
that the agency's lawyers sub­:, poena Ford ftles. : Charles Gumushian, a Ford · spokesman in Detroit, said the 
Tribune report had "absolutely nothing new. The information 

' is material that has been in the public record for some time -in court flies, in government ftles, National Higliway. Safety Ad­ministration files. As far as I'm concerned it's in the public record." 
Gumushian said, "I can't com­ment on the substance of the memo itself because I haven't seen it yet.'' 
The newspaper obtained the 
[continued on page ll.J 

SMC Governance Board deals with internal communications problems 
by Margie Basszl and Pam Degnan 
During Sunday's Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting, Student Body President Pia Tri­giani said that a ''lack of communication between indiv­idual board member is causing internal problems with the board." This statement was meant with mixed reaction by the board last night. 
The majority of the board agrees that no internal com­munications problem exists According to Spiritual Commis­sioner Mary D. iRyan, the board faces academic pressure due to mid-term examination with pressure from their work on the Board of Governance. 

' ' I ,tl,ink the lack of communi­
''..l feel the board is doing an excellent job working as a cohesive 
unit ..... '' 
cation could be a potential problem but it is not an actual problem right now. It is important that it was brought to the attentin f the board mem­bers," said Ryan. 
Publid Reltion Commisioner Mary Amgela Shannon agreed that there was no a lack of 
communication, yet she stres­sed the importance of feed back form each individual board member. 
"I feel the board is doi11~ an excellent job workin~ as a cohesive unite," Electton Com­missionser Mary Mullaney said. "However, it has come to my attention that a few board member have complaints about their job and repsonsibilities." int to Augusta Hall PresidC'nt Sue Turcotte, a main problerr, is 
[continued on page 4.} 
. ,. 


News in brief 
Tuesday, October 16, 1979-page 2 
Tuba players blow their 
Porter, Vogl 


brass at 'Octubafest ' 
exhibit 
URBANA • Ill... (AP) -1 uba players might be considered a brassy lot as thev take avantage of this week to blow their own horns at Octubafest. 

paintings
"Our goal is to promote our instrument, create job opportunities and have composers write new works for us,'' 
Two Notre Dame artists have
sa1d Dan Perantoni, a University oflllinois music professor. 
exhibitions that _opened locally
"a catchy phrase like Octubafest gets people's attention." 
yesterday.
Perantoni, one of the founders of Tubists Universal 
Dr. Dean A. Porter, associate
Brotherhood Association, organized the five-day Octubafest 
professor of art and director o
here. He says there probably will be more than 100 like it 
The Snite Art Museum at Notre
around the world. 
Dame, is showing his water­colors at ) efferson Gallery, 721
Dow Jones suffers setback 
E. Jefferson Blvd., until October 28. A reception for the 
artist was held yesterday after­noon. NEW YORK (AP) -The Dow Jones industrial avera~e 


after hint ofoil price increase 
Donald G: Vogl, associate suffered its sixth straight setback yesterday as the possibility 
professor of art, has an exhib­of another round of oil-price increases sent stocks reeling. 
Ition of his paintings, entitled The Dow tumbled 7.93 points to 831.06, bring its total 
''A Sense of Place,'' in the decline in the last six sessiOns to ·66. 55 points. 
Notre Dame Art Gallery The srock market opened the session slightly lower but 
through December 30. A them cropped sharply in midday when oil industry sources 
reception for the artist will be said Libya and Iran had raisccl the prices of their oil. 
held October 21 from 2:30p.m. to 4:30p.m.

Turkish Premier resigns after election defeat 
Homecoming 
ANKARA· TURKEY (AP) -Turkish Premier Bulent Ecevit announced his resignation Monday because of an election 

mums 
(Seeln-*rucUoii•IHireverM)
defeat that gave more power w the opposition forces led by former premier Suleyman Demirel. "Our government has lost a majority in the Parliament. 

available 
The election results as they reflect in the Parliament necessitate a change of government, Ecevit told reporters 
Everyone who purchasfd · a 
1 JUST FOR THE RECORO I
homttomi~g packet should stop which rook power from Demirel'sJustice Party in 1977, lost 
after emerging from the meetings. The Premier's party, 
by th• itudent Union on Thurs­
1 in the 100 Center 1
day to· pick up their mum. Sunday as well as crucial seats in the Senate. 
all five Assembly seats being contested in mid-term election Please bring your ho.mecoming dance I receipfS, aS' pro~ of I oHers 10% off on I purchase. · . ­
' EVERYTHING
I I


Weather 
1 with ID & coupon 1
St. Louis
A 30 percent chance for rain today with a high in the mid to 
I RECORDS, TAPES. paraphernalia I
upper 60s. A 50 percent chance for showers and thunderstorms tonight and tomorrow. Low tonight near 50, High tomorrow in the upper 60s. 



Club -----------------­
offers rides 
1The ND-SMC Club ot St. Louis is offering aride line for its 
ROCKIN YOU FROM THE TOWER 
qtcmbers. Qrivecs and riders 7am-1am Daily
~caJI1?74Jo po~ibly ldcate.a 
Also,
n<k or ndert to · the S4: I Louts
8 a.m.MANAGEMENT SEMINAR-caroll hall smc spon.: 
Taking, and Playing Your Requests All Day
acea for 11teak. • Drivers who
woman's managment center Long at #6400.
need to fill their cars are
<J a.m. NATIONAL ABORTION CONFERENCE -(sessions So Listen to,
especially asked to call as soon
open to nd/smc community as seating is available). 9am,. 
Notre Dame's Student Rock, AM 64, WSND.
as possible. a theological analysis of the 'ethics' of abortion,'' 200 & 202 CCE.; 9 a.m. kathleen perry & judy peterson; pres. & ex. dir. of beta "beta:report on a program for pregnant women in 
prof. stanley hauerwas, nd, "why the arguments have failed: 
1-The Observer_ 
distress," 102 & 104 CCE. 2 p.m. elizabeth cole, dir. no. amer. ctr. on adoption, inc., "adoption in america: the reality 
NightEditor; Rod Beard 
vc-rsu~ the mythology," 200 & 202 CCE.; 2 p.m., donald p. 
Asst. Night Editors; Ryan
warw1ck, prof. harvard inst. for int'l develop,ent, "foreign 
"No Doz" Ver Berkmoes, 


USINESS MAJORS! 
aid for abortion: .P?Iitic~, e~hics & pract!ce," 102 & 104 
Cindy Kliros, Bill Keenan.
CCE.; 4 p.m. wtlltam J. mttchell, detrott free press, an 
Copy Editor; Mark Rust
interview with bernard nathenson, md. CCE AUD.; 8 p.m. 
News Editor; Mark Rust
hadley arkes, amhurst college,"on the public funding of 
' 

The Observer
abortions," CCE AUD. 
Editorial Layout; Colleen 4 p.m. LECTURE "abortion and the conrraceftive mental­
Sloan ity," charles rice, notre dame law schoo, 101 LAW 
Sports Layout: : Beth 
wants an ambitious student 
A'JILDING, abortion perspective lecture series. 
Huffman 7, 9, 1, p.m. MOVIE "death wish" ENGINEERING AUD. 
Typists; Amy PPczkow~ki, sponsor: management club. 
Beth Huffman, Kate Huf­
seeking practical experience 
3·30 p.m. COMPUTER MINI-COURSE pl-1 115 CCMB 
fman, Mary Beth Budd sponsor; computing center. 
EMT; Mich Santello .i:J 5 p.m. BIOLOGY SEMINAR "natural regulation of 
Proofreader; Mike Onufrak 
in management and with
parasite poplations," prof. robert p. mckintosh, nd. GALVIN 
ND Day Editor; Mark Kelly AUD. . 
SMC Day Editor; Peggy
7 p.m. LECTURE "the use of film in a dept. of modern Schneeman 
an interest in graphic design. 
languages" prof. richard blakely, brown u. CAROU.. HALL 
Ad Design; Flo O'Connell
SMC sponsor, dept. of modern languages & dept.. of 
Photographer; Tom Jackman
education 7 p.m.YOUNG DEMOCRATS MEETING' LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
Tile Observer [USPS • 12DI II 
Modest salary included. 
publilllld Mllldly through Friday u­cept during u1m1nd viCitilll perildl.
8 p.m. PRAYER MEETING "praying of centering" MARY'S 
SOLITUDE· SMC CAMPUS; staff sponsored 
The Observer 11 publllllld by tile
8:15 p.m.SEMINAR WITH VISUAL PRESENTATION' "the 
students Df Natre 011111 * Saint
inside story of color photography" dr. gary w. allen-eastman 
Miry's Cll..... SublcrttltiiM lillY Ill koda~ company_ resear~h labs; 123 NIEWULAND sponspr. 
purdlned tor S2D per year ($11 per 

Contact Steve Odland 
~~m~~tlfl from The Observer. 1'.0. IIIII
amencan chemical society. 
0, Nitre b11111, llldlllll 41l&. s.c.d
8:15 CONCERT notre dame woodwind quintet, LIBRARY 
ella ':r paid, Netrl DIIM, llt­

at 8661 or 1432.
AUDITORIUM 
dillll . 8:15p.m. CONCERT notre dame orchestra, WASHINGTON 
The Observer is 1 llllllllllr If tt11 AuociltiCI Pras. AH ,..........
H.'\IL 
rights .,. merwd. 




~-~-~~------------~--~-----.-----------------------------------.,.----. 
The Observer 

Rebels sta,ge coup in El Salvador; ­President Romero flees office 
UAW to~ 'sacrifice' for Chrysler workers 
HIGHLAND PARK, MICH. (AP) -United Auto Workers union President Douglas A. Fraser said yesterday the union would seek "equality of sacri­fice" from non-union workers at Chrysler Corp. in rerum for making unprecendented con­cessions to the troubled auto­maker. 
Speaking to reporters after the resumption of contract talks at the No. 3 automaker, Fraser said he had told Chairman Lee 
A. Iacocca that concessions had to cover ''those not in the union as well as those in the union.'' 
As an example, Fraser said, ''Our salary people cell me people in our union are being laid off disproportionately . . . you can't tolerate that." 
The UAW represents about 10,000 salaried workers at Chr­ysler, a little less than a third of the white-collar work force, the only company in the Big Three 
Art Galle~y features 'Eye ' exhibit 
A photography exhibition, 
''The Transforming Eye,'' 
featuring the work of Clarence John Laughlin, will be present­ed today through Nov. 14, at Notre Dame's Art Gallery. 
Laughlin's work ha:;; been shown in more than 200 one­man exhibits in this country and France and is represented in _ many private and public collec­tions. Born in 1905 in Lake Charles, La., he has published two books; "Ghosts Along the Mississippi" and "Lost Louisi­ana," whtch deal with planta­tions and the past of the Louisiana delta country. In 1973 the Philadelphia Mus­eum of Art created a large cross-section show of the photo­grapher's work, resulting in a third book, ''The Personal Eye." 
The current exhibit, on a nationwide tour arranged by the International Exhtbitions Foundation of Washington, 'D C., includes works from 15 of Laughlin's 23 major groups, ranging from semi-abstract and early stilllifes to satires reveal­ing the hypocrisy and injustice of society, to complex visual poems.'' 
................... ,. ••••••• f .......................... , .... *"' 
where it represents substantial numbers of these workers. 
The company imposed a white-collar wage freeze in the spring, arid some 1,700 execu­tives have taken pay cuts. 
In all, Chrsyler has about 110,000 production workers, of whom 29,000 are on indefinite layoff. They average $9 an hour. 
Never before has the UAW eased terms for one of the Big Three companies, although it did for American Motors Corp. once and also for Studebaker 10 1954. 
Chrysler, which expects to lose about $1 b.illion this year, is asking for federal loan suaran­tees to help it invest 10 new products. The company is scal­ing down a request for $1.2 billion to bring it under a $1 billion ceiling set by the Treas­ury Department, and UAW cooperation is a key component of its plan. 
The company wants an ag­reement it can show to Con­gress to prove that Chrysler's workers, as well as banks and suppliers, are helping out. 
The previous settlements at Ford Motor Co. and General Motors Corp. will raise an assembler's basic wage by 31 percent and company hourly labor costs by 33 percent in three years. Such a settlement could cost Chrysler at least $267 million in the first year. 
The day's session began with an hour-long refort by Iacocca on the status o the company, the second time he has appear­ed at the bargaining table this year. 
''Now is the time for all ~ood union men to come to the atd of their company,'' Iacocca said on his way to the bargaining room. 
He said he stood on his July proposal of a two-year freeze on wages and benefits, clearly an opening-round maneuever he did not expect to win approval. "It went over like a lead balloon," he said later. 
Iacocca said he thought Chry­sler's workers would bo along with contract concessions be­cause, "People are people and are pretty sensible when the chips are down.'' 
And, he added, ''The need is urgent." 
Fraser said the union bar­gaining team hoped to put the union's response to Iacocca's wage-freeze proposal on the table by tomorrow . 
rebellion "stabilized the situa­tion in the country." 
Prior to yesterday, some officers were known to want Romero to liberalize his regime, while others called for an even tougher crackdown on the in­creasingly violent leftist ele­ment, and it was believed that faction led the coup. 
The rebels claimed they were in control of all 14 departments, or states, throughout this coun­try, which has a population of 
4. 5 million and is the smallest Central American nation, sand­
wiched  between  Guatemala,  
Honduras  and  the  Pacific  
Ocean.  

After the rebels announced seizing the barracks, they said they were seeking to overthrow Romero. 
Some shooting was reported in late morning at the barracks in Chalatenango, 30 miles northeast of here, and in Sonso­nate, 38 miles to the west, an unidentified army captain was reported killed. 
A spokesman for the rebels said the insurgents also seized barracks in San Miguel, 100 miles east of San Salvador, and just outside the capital in San Carlos, site of the nation's largest military installation. Traffic was flowing normally in · the capital but there were unconfirmed reports of shoot­ing in some areas of San Salvador. 
The spokesman said the re­bels had been conspiring for almost six months to overthrow Romero. 


WSND 
•

,appotnts director 
The management of WSND­AM has announced the appoint­ment of Michael D. Tanner to the office of WSND-AM Prog­ram director. Tanner, a Junior from Shreveport, La., has been the acting Program Director since Ray Kalusa left that position last month. 
As WSND-AM Program Direc­tor, Tanner will co-ordinate music and special . program­ming, in accordance with sta­tion policy. 
Tanner has been with WSND AM since his Freshman year at Notre Dame. 
Tuesday, October 16, 1979-page 3 
T-uesday Nigh~. October 16 
I 
7pm-3am 



World Series Extravaganza 
Molson Golden Ale 
7pm -end of game 2/$1.00 

Don't Let Your Life Be Empty 
Life is empty ior many-the starving, the diseased, the unwanted, the unloved all over the world. Help­ing them to a iuller life can keep yours irom being empty. The Holy Cross Fathers are trying-as teach~ ers, parish priests, missionaries, social and communi­cations workers and so on. You name it-we prob­ably do it. Write thP Holy Cross Fathers: 
FATHER ANDRF H'VFIILE, CSC VOCAliONS OHICl BOX ~41 NOTRl DAMl, IND 465~6· 


I-----------------------------,
Seminar on Color and 1i Instant Photography ! 
1 Dr. Gary W. Allen -Eastman Kodak Co. 1
t___~!§P_~Jy~~~~~jj~~ltp~j~~---· 

SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) -Army rebels seized four key military barracks yester­day, forcing President Carlos Humberto Romero from office, diJ?lomatic and rebel sources satd. The reports said Romero fled the country and one officer was killed. 
The usually reliable diploma­tic sources said Romero left by commercial airline bound for the United States with his family. No details on the flight were provided. 
In Washington, State Depart­ment spokeswoman Sue Pitt­man said "we don't have confirmation on exactlv what has happened,'' addii1g the department was in constant contact with the U.S. Embassy in San Salvador, the capital. 
A rebel spokesman said key aides and several members of Romero's Cabinet, including Defense Secretary Gen. Feder­ico Castillo Yanez and his deputy, Col. ] ose Eduardo Ira­hera, left with him, but there was no official confirmation. 
The spokesman said a major and two colonels, all unidentif­ied, led the coup against Rom­ero, a rightist army general who was elected two years ago to a four-year term. . 
Earlier, a rebel spokesman, who asked anonymity, refused to describe the ideology of the rebels, but said they wanted to "seek a change in the stucture of the armed forces and effect the changes that are necessary in the country." 
A later statement said the 
"".~ .~ <" ~ ..........~ f.~ ....~ ... II" •' .~ ... .-··.~,...II"' r r,. r ·-•· .... ~·,. ~ .. ,.... ,. • • " , , .., •. • ,.. _ ,. ._, , ..-• . 

....
----------------------------------------------------~-~-----~ 
The Observer Tuesday, October 16, 1979 -page 4 
~-ccpQan~ .attd Post columnist speaks ,

I 


WJI. CJQoweflS -~ McC~thy asks group to battle ignorance 
by Bruce Oakley 
(Qmpus Delivery 

in LQfortune Colman McCarthy, syndicat­ed editorial columnist for the _lust blat 284-4841 Wrashington Post, made a plea yesterday afternoon for advoca­
€4UlaR BORIO(j hOURS 
cy journalism as he challengedBas€m€0t or l€ffiarlS an O'Shaughnessy Hall audi-
Detroit Club 
Meeting Wednesday Oct. 17th Lafortune Little Theatre 

Wednesday 7:00pm LaFortune Alcove 



Happy Birthday Esther 
you're 30 +, ? until I catch up ... 
Love Jack 
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS 
/


M.B.A. 
All Majors and Fields invited. 
Come to our meetings to hear about our MBA and PhD Programs and to ask any questions about the curriculum, admissions, financial aid, a~d career opportunities available in the followtng fields of management: 
Public and NonProfit Human Resources 
Health Administration 
Finance 

Marketing Economics 
General Management Management Science 
Accounting Policy 

WEDNESDAY OCT31 
Contact the Placement Bureau for sign -up~ 
i • 

ence of 2 5 to use their skills, values, drives, and even their "anger" to battle ignorance. 
Claiming that btg business relies on the ignorance of the people to perpetuate its abuses, McCarthy noted that the major problem facing America today ts "not so much that we have great abuses . . . but it is the fact that we've adjusted to those abuses.'' 
''The major issue before the country now is:'How does a citizen act who refuses to adjust?' " he said. 
In a &eries of anecdotes describing his experiences as an advocacy journalist, McCar­thy attacked corporate and soc­ial injustices·. He spoke of a section in F!,)ol'ida where a town, whose restdents were blacks, had no pure drinking water, while a nearby country club, whose members were white, watered its fairways with spark­ling clean wat<:r. He spoke of companies that continued to sell flammable pajamas al­though several children had been severely burned wearing the bedclothes. 
McCarthy, who is at the University for the National Con-
NEH  
honors  
Samora Julian Samora, professor sociology and anthropology -the University was one  of at of  

eleven ' Hispanic scholars honored by . the National En­dowment for the Humanities (N'EH) and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus October 10 in Washington, D.C., in recogni­tion ·of their contributions to 
.scholarsnip in America. ' 
' Samora, a 1978 Sydney Spivak Fellow of the American Socio­logical Association, has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1959 and since 1911 has been director of the University's. Mexican-American Graduate Studies Program. He is the author of several book dealing with Chicano programs and has participate? in both sovernment and pnvate sur­veys on U.S.-Mexican border a:tivities. 


Society announces leaders 
Omicron Delta Kappa, the national leadership honor re­cently announced its new mem­bers for the fall semester. They are: Dick Boushka, Paul Broughtom, Keith Caughlin, 
John Comito, Vagas Ferguson, Kevin Hart, Tom Madvad, Mark Nasca, Mike Norton, Tom Robison, Rick Rogers, Kelly Tripucka and Mike P. Walsh.' 
Anyone interested in obtain-· ing elegibility information should contact President Ro­man Macia (3746), Vice-Presi­dent Erin Boyle (4313), Secre­tary Brian McAuliffe (4385) or Treasurer Dave DiSabato (8672). 
Past faculty members are en­couraged to contact Macia and provide counselin~ on the work­togs of the organtzation. 
feren~e on Abortion, added that the injustices are compounded by the inadequacies of journal­ists. He encouraged journalists to seek to perfect their art so that stories are constantly fresh. 
''The highest award you can give a journalist is to say of his work: 'If he or she didn't write about that, I would never have heard of it,' " he said. 
In response to a question from the audience, the column­ist noted that there are certain problems with a journalist--who works for a corporation--attack­ing businesses for their ethics. 
"Nobody is pure," he stated. ''Everybody sells out some­where. Some sell out more than others. Obviously, I don't think I sell out as much as most others. It is my duty as a journalist to ratse as much thunder as I can and hope a few rain drops fall. " 
Earlier yesterday, in his speech at the abortion confer­ence, McCarthy praised the national media for some of their coverage of the issues involved, but satd that, in general, the coverage has· not been as/ood as possible. He expresse the hope that editors will devote more time and space in their papers to reporting this issue, which he satd is national and not just Catholic ont. 
McCarthy, who began work­ing for the Washington Post in 1969, reaffirmed and broaden­ed that hope during his 0'­Shaughnessy speech. He said there is a need now for journal­ists to be covering the "real" issues. 
\continued from page I] 
~ith the illnessto The Observer. I woke up in the morning with an upset stomach. I didn't eat any lunch or dinner because I was afraid I couldn't hold it. I felt unusually tired all day. "Talking with some friends, Alverez discovered that there were a number of cases of stomach sickness in his hall before he reported to the infirmary last night. 
The infirmary is prescribing medication that works against the nausea and controls diarrhea. Thompson reccommends that students feeling any of the symtoms should stay away from solids and avoid liquids which are not of a water-based nature, such as alcoholic beverages and milk. 
• • Communication 
I 
[conti~ued from page 1.] 
lack of attencance at meetings 
by some board members. But 
she agrees that it is due to the 
time of the semester and will 'm>t b~ a permanent problem. Clarifying her statements ~at 
the Sunday night meetin~, Tri­
giani said, '.'I was trytng to 
make :the b(f<lrd more aware of 
what :is happening. I didn't 
want abreakdown in communi­
cation to occur like it has in 
privious years." 
Trigiani plans to redefine the 
role df each commissioner in a 
series of informal meetings 
aftdr October break. 
i"Ir realize that the board is 
titn4et pressure. They are 
~tu(}ents first and sometimes I 
am blind to this fact I just don't 
want all the things we have 
accomplished so far to disinte­
grate, " she said. 
Several other members also expressed satisfaction with the accomplishments of the board. · The consensus of the board is that the diffuculties which do exist stem ·from academic and personal pressures. They also 
feel that after October break the organizational problems should be resolved. 
However,·a few board member say they feel there is a definite lack ofcommunication. Accord-
German Club to celebrate 
Thursday, October 18th. The Notre Dame German Club (Del­ta Phi Alpha) wi11 sponsor a campus-wtde celebration forthe Austrian National Holiday on Thursday. Austrian music and (weather permitting) costumery will be featured, along with a special German-Austrian meal in co-operation with the dining halls. A special guest of the Foreign Studies and Modern Language Depts., Karl Schrems, Secretary General of the Austro-American Society is also expected. 
''Newspapers should not be thought of just as something to wrap fish in or line bird cages with. We have to deliver the facts to the reader, and then we can only hope that he does something with them." 
Bill Mitchell, a University alumnus now working for the Detroit Free Press, praised McCarthy for the sincerity of his beliefs: 
"Everyone talks the same game that he talks," Mitchell said. "But almost no one plays the game. Colman does." 
Introduced by Donald P. Costello, chairman of the Amer­ican Studies Department, as a ' 'man with a fierce social conscience who manages to let it show,'' McCarthy does not equate his attitudes with a negative view of the world. 
"Actually, I'm very 'up' on everything," he said. "Society can be saved. Reforms can be made. I'm a chronic hoper. " 



Observer 
Oarification 
The Observer reported yesterday the the Student Gov­ernment Board of Commission­ers will meet Wednesday at 6 . 
p.m. to discuss budget alloca­tions and complimentary ticket policy, and all student are mvited to attend. While The commissioners will discuss these issues, only the compli­mentary tecket discussion will be open to students. 
' ' ' Virus 


-~-­

....-------~-----------­
The Observer 
Oergy 'Talk It Up' 

Debate within Church continues 
by Man'beth Moran StaffReporter 
Fr. Edward O'Co n•n.or spoke against :he probability of wo­men ever becoming ordained ministers of the Church, while Sr. Marietta Starrie, rector of Lyons Hall, argued for the _admittance of women to the full ministry last night on WSND's 
issue show, Talk It Up. 
O'Connor, an associate profes­
sor oftheology at the University 
stressed tradition and "fidelity to the teaching of the Master'' as his main arguments against ordaining women. He noted that Chrtst chose cwe.\ve male apostles to follow hJim, and thereafter these apostles chose men as their succesors. He pointed out that women served an active role in the early church, however, it was always in the bounds proscribed by precedent and tradition. This tradition did not include orders of any kind, he-said. 
Starrie, who is now persuing her masters of divinity at Notre Dame, countered with an argu­ment against this precedent and also pointed out· that Vati-
Trojan mystery deeper..s 
''I'm in the cwok of the arm of law and order ' 
Steichen 
•

recetves grant 
Barba.r':l Anne Steichen, a1979 Nque Dame graduate who m~ored in economics, has been awarded a Fulbright-Hayes full Brant to the College of Europe m Bruges, Belgium, it was announced today by Kathleen Mass Weigert, assistant dean ofNo~Dime's College of Arts and Letteis. Steichen will do research in European studies during the 1°79-80 academic year. 
We1aert also announc(~d that Gregory J. Scott, who earned bia bachelor;s degree from ~ Dame• in· 1969, was awarded a IFu&briaht-Haysadl .~. studt economics in 

,....=!~rLaG:~. 
·of .:.tberal Studies Notre Dame. ·· 


can II declared that no indiviual issue might cause a serious ought to be deprived of a role in break in the Church. life that they choose to take. • Kathy Murray, /talk show host She emphasized her belief that and WSND news director, not­the present teaching of the ed that a recent article in the Church on the subl'ect to be Observer quoted a study in inadequate, es_pecial y since the which the opinions of Catholics Church as an Institution decrys were evenly divided on the social injustice and inequality subject of women in the minis­as things that are un-Chnstian­try. There seemed to be no like. overwhelming trend of either 
Women are not full participat­men or women in favoring or ing membersof the Church as opposing women preists. they are barred from active O'Connor said that he did not ministry, according to Starrie. feel that women would become O'Connor countered with the part of the active ministry in premise that "office is not either his life time or in the next mdicative of grace in the sight generation. "Women who of God.'' He believes that want to serve the Church will women should strive to become find new ways of inl?ut into the the best members of the Chruch hiearchy without bemg part of they can in their present it," he stated. sphere. Starrie, said she hopes that it 
Both O'Connor and Starrie willhappen in the next genera­expressed concern that this tion. 
CALL IJS BEFORE THE HOLIDAY SQUEEZE.­
Of course,.you're going home for the holidays. Just like everybody else. 
But if you wait until exam week to get your flight home, you can also be squeezed out by every­body else. 
That's why booking on ·continental now is the smartest thing you can do. 
You'll get the flight you want. The seat you want. And save some bucks on our low discount fares besides. 
So pick up the phone and call Continental or . your travel agent today. Then, do one other little thing, please. Call Mom and let her know you're coming. 

•\ 
i 
. \ 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 8 
U.S.A./Canada/Mexico/Hawaii/Micronesia/ Australia/New Zealand/Fiji/Samoa/and th~ Orient. 
------------------------------------------. 
Tuesday, October 16, 1979 -page 5 
The Youthful G;oodwi/1 '!fission o/ the Republic of China presented a vanety o{Tatwanese entertainment last nigh/ in 
Washington Hall [pboto by Tom jackman]. • · 
..----------------------­
Tuesday, October 16, 1979 -page 6
Editorials 
Professors have problems, too 
I am a self-acknowledged expert on the problems of student life, as I'm sure we all are. It is only recently though that I have seen how similar a professor's life and problems are to a student's. I don't mean to be an iconoclast. I trust that we will still find professors to be Kings of the classroom, Lords of the lecture hall and Lions of the library when this essay is finished. 
I've always thought that five classes were too many, and that most of my problems follow not only from the amount of work involved, but also from having to divide my attention five ways. Notre Dame professors, on the average, teach three courses each semester. If they are actively involved in re­search they may have their work load reduced to two courses, but I'm not sure that this happens consistently in all departments. Also it takes sev­eral years to develop a teaching style. Should assistant profes­sors then be given two courses in order to do that? And if they are untenured and so need to "publish or perish," is it not doubly important that they have a reduced work load? 
Without making any confes­sions, let me say it is very difficult to have anything more than a scattered social life--to say nothing of a steady relation­ship--when trying to excell i'l academics. Most professors are married and havr a family. If overworked, what will be the first to go? Publications, per­haps, if tenured; the students and the teaching, if not tenur­ed; or maybe the marriage? I wouldn't want to make any of these choices--yet they may be being made every day. 

I feel a great pressure to do my very best for them. I'd hate for them to find that I'm even less intelligent than they had imagined. Our professors are often involved in a similar situation. Within the university there are lectures and colloquia which place them under the close scrutiny of their collea­gues; and outside of the univer­sity, their publications, if ac­cepted at all, are open to virulent, even violent attacks. Few students face such a critical audience (unless of course you're foolhardy enough to write a polemic for The Observer). I'm not sayins it's unfair. It's not, but tt is something to be aware of. 
I won't say much about "outside interests because most of us have had to give them up a long time ago. The fragmentation fo the university into departments may not only be a symptom of the times, but a partial cause of the problems of the times. Until the criteria for tenure and promotion allow for work and publishing outside of one's spectalty, there seems little hope that both professors and students will be able to cultivate their broader inter­ests. 
Related and equally impor­tant, is the fact that we r teachers and students ha, little time to become active participants in the larger comm­unity. Pracuce ought to follow theory, yet a heavy work load discourages all but a few; indeed the structure of educa­tion itself is forbidding, and the practical result is that we remain in our ivy rowers. 
Allow me to use a homely 

Paul Lauer 
metaphor to try to explain the level of competition an unten­ured professor is at. lf I were trying to be a professional football player instead of a university -professor, my stud­ies at the undergraduate level could be compared to being in kindergarten kicking a ball on the playground at recess and only occasionally trying to pick it up. The distance from kinder­garten to the "pros" is the same as from an undergraduate degree to a position as a professor. rd sull have to go to graduate school (the best?), earn a doctorate (under whom would I study?), then be hired by a university (I believe one out of eighty language Phd's are hired, for example!), and finally I would have to be 
tenured. 
As we know, never have more people competed for few­er positions (there are 11 mil­lion students pursuing post-sec­ondary education in America today!). If I'm not accepted by Oxford, I can always get a job driving camels in the Gobi desert. I'm still young (and besides, that was my secon~ choice). A professor rejected for tenure may not have a second choice. I understand that even the best have only a 50 percent -'-lance of staying in teaching at che university level. It's really quite hard for us to understand just how much our ~;>rofessors have invested in thetr careers and how much they stand to lose if not tenured. We must make the tenure process as fair as we possibly can; not only for us, but for them. I'd hate to see a professor from Notre Dame driving camels when I'm in the Gobi next year. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Christian values present in ROTC 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to comment on Jerry Murphey's questioning of ROTC on campus as bemg inconsistent ' ith Ch.·istian values. The answer · \ch appeared in The Observe was inadequate, to say the least. 
If Mr. Murphey had given more thought to his question, he might have a;ked, "How can Christian values be incorpor-. ated into the ROTC program?'' I recc 1mend that Mr. Murphey enroll in War/Law/Ethics PHIL 38 l) to find out 
about this. 1 also invite him to a~k anyone tn ROTC if they hold Christian values. 

As for the legitimacy of ROTC on a. college sampus, who would you rather have managing the military: officers who graduated from a regi­mented milita'ry institution, or officers educated at a liberal arts university where one re­ceives a broad education in many schools of thought. The fact that a Notre Dame educa­tion includes Christian morals and ethics is all the more reason why ROTC should be present here. 1. h M ..... . b h
o n . ~.nm ac 

Fan questions police action 
Dear Editor: 
My family and I have just returned to New York after­spending a wonderful weekend at Notre Dame. We even en)oyed the game despite the ratn. 
One bad incident marred the weekend when we observed a student being manhandled by the police for selling programs for the game. As we under­stand it, the sale of programs is permitted within the Notre 
· Dame boundaries but not out­side these parameters. This boy was probably outside the 

desisnated area and therefore recetved the attention of the South Bend Police. After a short discussion, the student was wrestled to the ground and finally hand-cuffed. I can't believe that in this day and age that adult-thinking police would act in this way. 
I realize that it is wrong to make a final judgment without knowing all the facts, so there­fore I have an open mind on why the police acted in such a manner last Saturday. Maybe someone with the facts will respond to this letter. -Mean­whtle 1 remain curious in New York, where the crime stars do not include the illegal sale of football programs. 
Edward]. Gibbons 
NfJT SINa 8tFOf?£ 
COIJLO &. /J5TENHIS TRIAL, MAN. 
BRENN&/?., fJO I'P /.1JIIc 70 TALK, FRANKlY. I'M A 
'rVIJ THIN!< MAN, 8IfTI~ 6UT LI'TTI£ IAKRRIW. 
HO'S.. H&'s.. 5(1ff£ fOI.J<S OS. fO{ fJ/NNER..

/ 
\ / 

The father ofthe 
electric bill 
WASHINGTON ·This month, 
we are celebrating the lOOth 
anniversary of the electric light 
bulb. All the credit is given to 
Thomas Alva Edison who in­
vented it. 
But what people don't know is 
that another person, Jeffrey 
Kobrin, started it all. He 
invented the electric bill two 
years earlier than the electric 
light. If if hadn't been for 
Kobrin, Edison might never 
have been inspired to invent the 
bulb. 
Jeffrey was an accountant by trade, but at night he dabbled in his basement trying to think up new ways ofcharsing people for services in thetr homes. One evening he was sitting at his bench and he wrote down the work "What." Then he wrote down "100 whats." Then he wrote "1 ,000 whats." It didn't make any sense until he scribbled down ''One kilowhat 
= 1,000 whats." He showed it to his wife. She said, "What is it?" 
But Kobrin was not discour­aged. He went to see an investment banker on Wall Street. The banker looked at the new electric bill and said, "By gum, it has possibilities . If we could send out one of these to every family in Amer­ica each month we could be rolling in money.'' 
The banker and Kobrin took 
the ferry to Hoboken and the 
train to Menlo Park, where they 
found Tom Edison messing 
around in his dirty laboratory. 
They showed him the bill and 
the banker said, "Tom, can you 
come up with a gimmick so we 
can swck the people for using 
.
lt.? '' Edison studied the bill and 
Art Buchwald 
then said, "You spelled kilo­
what wrong. It's k-i-1-o­
w-a-t-t.'' 
"You idiot," the banker 
shouted at Kobrin, ''you want 
me to invest my money in an 
electric hill and you can't even 
spell what we're going to 
charge the people for." 
Kobrin, abashed, replied, "It's not too late. We haven't printed up any yet." 
The banker cooled down. 
"Tom, can you do it? I believe 
in this electric bill. But we need 
your technical know-how before 
we can put it in the mail." 
Edison said, "Well, I was working on an electric light bulb, but I gave it up because I couldn't figure out any way to make money on it. Now that you've invented an electric bill tt might be worth my while to go back to it." 
Kobrin said, "Wait a minute. I created this bill. You can't get in on it just because you're going to come up with a light bulb." 
"The bill's no good without the bulb," Edison said. 
"And the bulb's no good without the bill," Kobrin re­plied. 
The banker interrupted, "I've got it. Tom can make money on the bulb. It will burn out in a few hours and people will have to buy a new one every time it does. We'll let Edison keep the patent on the bull:,, but we hold the rights to the electric bill, where the real money is." 
They shook on it, and the rest is history. Unfortunately, Edi­son has become a household name, but Jeffre;y Kobrin, the man who started it all, has been forgotten . 
(c) 1979, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department !\tanagers 
The news is reported as accurately and 
-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rose~ary ~ills Sports Editor ................ .Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managmg Editor ..... ..... Dtane Wtlson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editona/ Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Fdttor .............. Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ........Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor.................... Mark Rust Production Manager ....... Tim Sullivan of the University of Notre Dame du lac an~ . the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager ......... Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It does not op1010ns on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor .... .Ellen Buddy Controller........ ......... Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brassil Circulation Manager ..... .Greg Hedges 



The Irish-Extra 
an Observer sports supplement 
Tuesday, October 16, 1979 -page 7 
Work remains for icemen,· experi~ence plays key role 

Smith asks feWer questions, captains to lead team 
by Bria11 Beglane Sports Wn"ter 

All the nuts and bolts have not been tightened. The wrinkles have not been smoothed out. There's still a lot of work to be done and adjustments to be made. 
Lefty Smith has not figured out the formula for the Notre Dame hockey team just yet. 
But, slowly but surely, the Irish are getting there. 
Smith has an experienced team returning-perhaps the most talented team ever to skate:· in the North Dome of the Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter. The Irish open their 1979-80 campaign with an exhibition game this Friday against Illinois-Chicago Circle at the ACC. Faceoff is set for 8 p.m. 
Sixteen of the top 20 skaters, including eight of the nine leading scorers, are back from last year's 18-19-1 club. That young squad finished fifth in th(: Western Collegiate Hockey Association with a 17-14-1 record, but lost in the first round of the playoffs to Wisconsin. Eight seniors and juniors combine with a host of sophomores to form an extensive nucleus for this season's club. The going may have gotten a little rough with so many young skaters, but the experience gained should pay ripe dividends for Smith. 
"As we look to this season we don't face the question marks we did last year," says Smith, preparing his 12th Notre Dame team for a season opener. ''Last year we had to start from scratch at many positions, but this year we have many players rerurning and know who can do what. 
"Overall, we have excellent speed­our best ever-good size and good strength. We look for more depth on offense with only three holes to fill. The WCHA is a very competitive league, though, and the task we have before us is by no means an easy one. 
"But let's face it. We had a pretty good year last season and rerum eight of out top nine scorers from that club. Improvement will be the key. Our people must play to their full potential, and we have to avoid the injury jinx. If we do that, we feel it is realistic for us to challenge for the top. We are very optimistic and look forward to this 
season.·­
Senior captain Greg Meredith will be the nucleus of the Notre Dame attack. The six-foot, one-inch, 205­pound right wing finished second on the team in scoring last year with 28 ~oals and 22 assists for 50 points and JUSt missed the WCHA goal-scoring title. An outstanding student, Mere­dith is just as smart a player and will be looked upon to provide the overall leadership for the Irish this season. 

''With a healthy season we expect Greg to make a serious run at the WCHA goal-scoring title," praises Smith. ''He is a potential All­American. Greg is an outstanding leader with excellent offensive and defensive capabilites.'' 
The other returning seniors to the forward lines will be Ted Weltzin, center for Meredith, and co-captain Tom Michalek. Michalek, also a center, and Weltzin both notched 43 points last year. 
Jtinior Kevin Humphreys will be the 
left wing for Michalek and the pair 
should combine once again to form one 
of the most effective penalty killing 
tandems in the WCHA. Center Mark 
Sicoly is the other junior who should 
make a contribution to the attack. 

[continued on page 10] 
by Craig Chval Sports Wnter 

Notre Dame hockey coach Charles (Lefty) Smith is askmg a lot fewer questions than he was a year ago. This year, he'll be answering the questions, especially if his young, yet veteran team doesn't live up to expectations. 
. Last year, Smith's first question was probably where to start. This year, he's dealing with a known commodity. The bumper crop of 1978-79 freshmen are now sophomores, supposedly older, wiser, and better. The future people referred to when talking ab9ut Notre Dame's hockey team are here. 
This year, any questions Smith has will be mostly what ifs. What if the players get complacent? What if we are overconficent? What if we catch an epidemic of the sophomore jinx? 
To that end, Smith will rely on two 
men--captain  Greg  Meredith,  and  
alternate captain Tom Michalek.  
Born just  three  days  apart,  both  

seniors are Rhodes Scholar candi­dates. If you don't look very hard, the similarties stop th(:re. 
Meredith is a fiery player. At six-feet, one-inch and 205 pounds, he is able to ward off defenders and control the puck at the same time. When the Insh need a goal, they turn to Meredith, as evidenced by his six game-winnin~ goals last season. 
Michalek Is a magician with his stick. The diminutive-(five-foot, nine­inch) center-is the thinking man's hockey player. Michalek scored 15 goals and added 28 assists last year. He is a dynamo on the penalty-killing shift, bagging two shorthanded goals a year ago. When the Irish need to 


control a crucial faceoff, they turn to Michalek. But both men take their respons­ibility the same way--seriously. 
''This year if we don't do really well, it will be a disappointment," admits Michalek. "It's the captain's respons­ibility to keep the team up and in good spirits.'' Easier said than done. 
''You have to have more patience with your teammates,'' Merelth says, "because you have to be able to help them deal with their problems. You have to realize what it was likewhen you were a freshman.~' 
Meredith lists helpin~ the new­comers adkust to the ngors of the WCHA and college in general as a captain's biggest job. 
''You have to break a lot of people in, make sure they feel a part of the team," he says. "We want to make sure that there's absolutely no distinc­tion between the freshmen and any­body else on the team." 
Even in their approaches to the leadership role, Meredith and Mich­alek take different routes~ 
"I try to lead more by example than by being a rah-rah guy," Michalek ment, bur shies away from the rah-rah label. 
offers.  "Greg  does  most  of  the  
talking."  
Meredith  agrees  with  the  assess­ 

"I like to try to inspire the team verbally," he says, "but I don't like the term 'rah-rah.' Its not like 'Let's win one for ole Notre Dame, but some guys react to that sort of thing, and some don't." 
It will probably be a long time before Meredith finds out which players need a boot in the can and which ones don't, probably not until the dog days of February begin to take their toll. So for now, Michalek and Meredith just worry about playing hockey, making s~re they're ready to go when the bell nngs. 
Michalek takes a pass at the point, and quickly slides the puck over to the other point. He gets the puck back, and flicks it to a teammate in the corner. Suddenly, he breaks for :I.e slot, calls for the puck and snap::. 11 past a startled goalie. 
A little while later, Meredith breaks past the blueline and takes a pass in full stride. He muscles past a defender and bores in on the goalie. A quick wrist shot, and the puck is in the net. 
And finally, it all comes rogether. 
Michalek  and  Meredith.  Day  and  
night, hot and cold.  
But whatever road they take,  the  
end result is the same.  

.... iL-l .,. .... , ., .•. 
/ ___ 

The Irish Extra 

Sophomore Dave Laun'on wzll split ice-time as the ND goalie with newcomer Bob McNamara. [photo courtesy ofSports Information.) 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 
When it comes right down to it, stopping the puck is the name of the game... 
Hockey, that is. 
And very few do it better than Notre Dame goaltender Dave Laurion. The five-foot, seven-incher played like a crusty veteran in 1978 when he finished sixth among WCHA goalies with a 4.395 goals-against average. 
But that was last year. He was a freshman then. 
This season he returns as one of the 
top-rated  netminders  in  the  confer­ 
ence.  
"Dave  is.  a  super  competitor,"  

comments Irish head coach Lefty Smith. ·'His biggest advantage is that he's a great athlete and because of that, he has unbelievable body control in the nets." 
Laurion arrived last season as a savior of sorts when it looked as if the Irish would be weak between the pipes. Notre Dame fans were still busy lamenting the loss of graduated goalies Len Moher and John Peterson when Laurion started his first college game against Colorado College. 
They dried their tears when he won it, 5-4. 
He won his next three starts before a 4-1 setback at Minnesota. In all, he played in 32 games, startin~ 29, while lo~ging 1, 798 playing mmutes--the thtrd highest season total ever for a Notre Dame goalie. You might say Dave Laurion did everything they asked of him. 
But it could be they asked for too much. "Ideally," admits Smith, "it would have been better to give Dave a rest 
Tuesday, October 16, 1979-page 8 
Few do it better 
Laurion defends ND goal 
Lefty anticipates 
No 'Sophomore Jinx' in sight 
by Michael Ortman Sports Wn'ter 

There's something about second-year athletes that catches the attention of sports fans, especially after excellent rookie seasons. Whether you're talking about professionals, collegians or even high school kids, you hear the same cliches like "the Super Sophs" or the dreaded "Sophomore Jinx." 
After a fine freshman season, fans 
and coaches tend to expect much 
more from an athlete during the 
second year. Too often, the resulting 
extra pressure on the player results in 
a disappointing season. 
The subject here -Notre Dame's 
sophomore hockey players. Collect­ively, they had tremendous freshmar, seasons, and the trend seems to be leaning more towards "Super Sophs." During the 1978-79 campaign, fresh­men scored 42 percent of Notre Dame's goals. Ftve of the top-ten 
scorers were freshmen including the 
top man Dave Poulin who tied for the 
team leadership in goals (28) and 
assists (31), for a team-high point total 
of 59. 
Three of Notre Dame's top defense­
men, four top forwards and number­
one goalie Dave Laurion were fresh­
men last year. But coach Charles 
(Lefty) Smith is quite confident that 
this year's sophomores will not let him 
down after their fine rookie seasons. 
"There's no way they're going to let 
up," says Smith, '"not those kids. 
Poulin. (Bill) Rothstein, Ueff) Perry, 
Laurion, they're all great competitors. 
They're not going to have any kind of a 
letdown. In fact, they should do much 
better this year. !hey are stronger 
and more experienced, and that says 
nothing but improvement." 
The playus themselves are ready to continue their fine calibre of play and are feeling no extra pressure as they head into their second seasons with the Irish. "We're feeling no pressure at all," says Poulin, "not on this team. Everybody's expecting a good year, but there's no extra pressure to do so. Having played together for a year, it makes things much easier, especially in training camp." 
Poulin will man the center position of an all-sophomore line with wings Jeff Perry and Rothstein, a trio that produced 53 of Notre Dame's 184 goals last year. Rothstein, a spreedy, forechecking forward from Grand Rapids, Minn., realizes his simation but refuses to let ir affect him. "I know that people will expect more from me and the other sophomores, and we're going to be depended upon much more. But nobody' s putting any pressure on us to produce. There are some aspects of my game which need a lot of improvement, like my shooting and body checking, but our job is just to g~ out there and do the best we 
can. 

Perry, the other wing on this all­sophomore line, is a strong, physical player and possesses a tremendous shot from the right wing spot. He feels that in some respects, this season will be easier than last. "Now they (the coaches) know what I can do. I feel a lot less pressure thi$ year than last." Right wing Jeff Logan will be skating on the same line he did last year with Center Tom Michalek and left wing Kevin Humphreys, a group which produced 43 goals in 1978-79. Logan, the only sophomore of the three, is perhaps the fastest skater on the team and has spent much of the summer in the weight room developing his upper body strength. "I feel much more at east this year because of the ex­perience 1 gained last year," says Logan, who didn't do all that working out for nothing. "I really hope to improve the physical aspects of my game this season.'' 
Sophomore Dan Collard will be skating on the number-four line and will see much more action than he did in 1978-79. 
The defense is also stocked with talented sophomores. Goalie Dave Laurion is probably the only sopho­more who will sense extra pressure this season, but not because of people's expectations. This year he has competition from freshman star Bob McNamara. "Competition pres­sures you to do better," says Lwrion, ''but it will be nice having a night off each weekend." 
Defense man Jim Brown, easily the biggest ·player on the Irish roster at six-foot-three, 205 pounds, is looking to eliminate mistakes this season. "I don't want to make the foolish mistakes I made last year. We have the forwards who can put the puck in the net. What we need to do is keep it away from our goalie." 

to  come  to  Notre  Dame,"  smiles  
assistant coach Ric Schafer.  "He's  
going to help us a lot. ''  
But,  interestingly  enough,  Notre  

John Schmidt scored more points than any other defenseman during his rookie year (five goals, 21 assists) but is still seeking to improve his offensive productivity. ''After a year of establishing myself on defense," he says, ''I want to try to open up my offensive play a littft. more." In 1978-79, Schmidt led tht> defensemen in assists and was second in goals. 
John Cox closes our the list of sophomore defensemen. His situation is somewhat mor!" difftcult than Schmidt's and Brown's. "My biggest goal right now is to ger on a regular _shift." he says. Presently Notre Dame's numher-seven defenseman, Cox is faced with stiff competition and he knows it. ''There· s more competi­tion this year than last and people t"xpect more aftt"r your first year. It's going to be tough.'' 
Dave Poulin 


once in a while. Playing goal is the most difficult position on the ice and it is tiring both physically and mentally. In fact, the mental fattgue is probably worse b!"cause you are forced to concentrate every second of the game with very few breaks.'' 
But the situation should improve this season with the arrival of fresh­man Bob McN:1mara. A Metro Cup winner in both 1977 and 1978 Mc­Namara is expected to provice much­needed assistance in the Irish nets. 
To put it quite simply, the kid is good--and he comes by his talent naturally. His father, Geny, was a goaltender for the NHL's Toronto Maple Leafs and McNamara has been following in daddy's footsteps since he was seven years old. The five-foot, ten-inch rookie was selected most valuable player in every major tourn­ament he played in, including the International High School Tourney in 1977 and 1978; the Northern Ontario Holiday Tournament in 1978; and the Tournament of Champions in 1979. 
"Oh, we're very happy Bob decided 
Dame almost didn't recruit him. 
"We weren't going to recruit any ~oaltender this year," reveals Smith. 'But Ric saw Bob play and he was so impressed that we decided to go after 
h.
tm. " Needless to say, he was worth the trouble. 
"Bob is a stand-up goalie," explains Schafer, ''which means he stays on his feet all the time. He's very versatile and very, very quick. He has a great 
[continued on page 10] 

---~~ ~-­
.. 



The Irish l~xtra Tuesday, October 16, 1979 -page 9 
Poulin holds key to offense; Rothstein, Perry crucial players 
by Mike McManus Lefty Smith because of his dexteritySports Writer while killing penalties. Humphreys, who collected five short-handed goalsAlthough the cold weather has j~st last season, is also one of the strongestrecently begun to move in, prepara­players of the team, holding several tions for winter have been-under way Notre Dame weighlifting records in his 
for a couple of weeks now over at the weight class. _ Athletic and Convocation Center. Senior co-captain Greg Meredith
That's where the 1979-80 Notre Dame 
heads Notre Dame's third set line athockey team has been working out 
this point. Last year Meredithunder the watchful eye of coach 
recorded rwo hat tricks on his wax to aCharles (Lefty) Smith. The youthful 
28 goal season that tied him with ,nave Irish, who made a good run for the 
Poulin for the team goal-scoring lead. WCHA title last year, should be even 
He also added 22 assists for a total ofstronger this year. 
50 points, second highest on the team. To win hockey games a team has to 
Meredith, however is being countedbe able to score, and the Irish should 
on for a lot more than goals, for ashave plenty of firepower this season, 
Smith PC?inted out, "Me;redith andsince eight of the nine top scorers from 
W eltzin should prove our leadershiplast year's team are back. 
up front." Ted Weltzin, a 12-goalDave Poulin is Notrl' Dame's top 
scorer last year as a junior, will joinreturning scorer, having racked J.IP 59 
impressive freshman Kirk Bjork aspoints on 28 goals and 31 assists' in an 
Meredith's linemates, and t.h~ threeimpressive freshman season. Poulin, 
s~ould add quite a few goals_ to the -a Denver Post second team all-WCHA 
htgh-powered Notre Dame offense. selection last season, will once again 
Smith is not certain yet whichcenter Notre Dame's second line this 
,players will make up his fourth line,year. He will be flanked by fellow 
but junior center Mark Sicoly andsophomores Bill Rothstein ani Jeff 
freshman winger ] ohn HigginsPerry. Rothstein, one of the t...~.est seem 
skaters on the team, scored 14 goals like good bets to see plenty of action this year. Sicoly did not play last year and added 16 assists for 30 points last 
_due to a preseason injury, but -hasseason, while Perry recorded 11 ~oals 
looked good in practice thus far.and 12 assists for 23 points. With a year's experience this trio will prob­Higgins, a five-foot, ten-inch 170 ably blossom into one of the best lines pound native of· Toronto, Ont., has 
in the league. 1 raised a few eyebrows in practice and Notre Dame's first line will once seems likely to contribute to the Irish ..;lgain feature Tom Michalek, Kevin Other freshmen who should
cause. gather some playing time are RexHumphreys and Jeff Logan. Mich­
Bellomy and Dave_Lucia. Sophomores­alek, a senior co-captain, pushed in 15 
Dan Collard and Pat Devine are a goodgoals and added 28 assists last year for bet for action as well.
a 43 point total while LoFcan, a sophomore, scored 14 goa.s and Overall, the Irish should have one of assisted on 16 more for a 30 J?oint total. the more potent offenses in the 
Logan also distinguished htmself last WCHA, and this, coupled with a solid season with his scrappy style of play defense, has produced a lot of optim­that made many an opposing player ism towards the team's prospects this hesirant to carry the puck while Jeff season. The team is big enough, was on the ice. The backbone, though, strong; enough and fast enough to keep · of this line and perhaps even of the up wtth the best of the league. So whole team is Kevin Humphreys. The don't be a bit surprised if Lefty Smith five-foot, eight-inch 160-pound junior guides the Notre Dame hockey team to
Kevin Humphreys wzll serve as a major asset to the Insh offense this season 
from Greeny Bay, Wis., always gives their first-ever WCHA title this
fphotot courtesy ofSports Information]. 
110 percent and is doubly valuable to season. 
Smith breaths easy 
Defens~ holds much ice experience 
b" Michael Ole1.rik abthty. · S · h "II k 1 b h 
J S arts Writer· ·one of the players who will be btg player wh~ loves-to _shoot and mtt w1 eep a c ose eye _on ot ;p counted upon most will be Browns-handle the puck, both ofwhtch he d?es players, and hopefully he wlll hke what 
Knowing that your defense will be chidle, a six-foot, rwo-inch 200 pound well. Cameron, on the otht;r hand, ts a he sees ~ery so~n., . . comprised of seven returning players, junior out of East Amherst, NY. rugged defenseman who hkes to ta_ke In,takl!lg a btrd s-eye vtew of thts all of whom saw plenty of ice time last Bronschidle proved to be a stalwart on th~ body whenever the opportumty year s Insh_ defense, one canno_t. ~ut year, can sure make a coach sit back defense with his rugged body checks anses. help to be tmpressed by the abthues and breathe easier. -and agile puck handling. He also led and past pe;rformances of these young 
Not so for Notre Dame's hockey defensemen in goal scoring, chipped Rounding out the Irish defense will but expenenced players. Stea~y coach Charles (Lefty) Smith, who in six goals while also adding 17 be Lucia and Cox, whose improve-performances b_Y eac~ player wtll seems to think that his defense's assists, making him second in overall ments on rhe blueline have alr~~dy assure~ly result_m a smtle on. the face performance -this season could be the scoring for a defenseman. been noticed in preseason workouts. of Smith, and_ tf the. <?f.fenstve hoes key to a successful campaign. Taking the overall scoring honors Both players have the tools to become perform to thetr capabtlmes ~s well as Although Smith admits, "We should was Schmidt, who last year turned in outstanding defensemen in the future, the go~ltenders, that smtle could be more solid this year because of the an impressive first season. Schmidt's and they will get plenty ofplay inS time extei_Jd mto the _WCHA pla~offs _and year's experience," he also reali~es size and speed were enough to help this season to refine their abihties. poss1bly to a nattonal champwnsh1p. that the defense must come up With him garner five goals and 21 assists, 1 consistent play for the entire season in while doing a remarkable job in 
;"'<"=.....=="'"""=""""'""""'===----., order for the Irish to seriously chal-helping to clear the crease for the Irish lenge for the Western Collegiate netminders. His six-foot, 200 pound Hockey Association title. frame was often seen where the action 
With the Irish offense returing eight was, and Smith will look for more of of their nine top scorers from a year the same this season, hopefully with ago, Smith feels that without ~ny even more improvement. serious injuries, goal productiOn Notre Dame's most experienced should not be much of a problem. defenseman will be Friedmann, a What he seems to feel is most six-foot, one-inch 200 pound senior important for a consistently go0d team from St. Paul, MN, whose leadership is goal prevention, and with the abilities have not gone unnoticed defensemen he has this year, such a during his years .in an Irish jersey. goal should be within reach. Friedman consistently figured in big 
The defensive pairings at this time plays last year for the Irish, both on include Jim Brown and Jeff Browns-defense and on offense, where he chidle, John Schmidt and Scott scored 22 points, third best among Cameron, and John Friedmann and defenders. Don Lucia, with John Cox on call to fill Jim Brown and -Scott Cameron, in when needed. This lineup provides s"ophomore and junior respectively, Smith with a strong defensive corps had eye-opening seasons last year, which also can handle the puck in the and they will figure greatly in-Notre john Schmicht j elfBrownschidle offensive end with more than adequate Dame's success this year. Brown is a 
-
--


The Irish Extra1 Tuesday, October 16, 1979 -page 10 
In WCHA 
"MJI)n~tq~Ooluth 
•Minnesota·Duluth 
*Michigan

North Dakota, Notre Dame to finish 1, 2 
"Michigan 

' 
' 
' 
I 
' 
I 
' 
I ' 
' I 
'I ' 
' 
! 
' 
-
-
The upcomin~ Western Collegiate Hockey Association season falls dunng an Olympic year, folks. 
That fact is an unfortunate one for last year's top four teams in the WCHA. Eight players from the league will · forego this season in favor of the Olympics. In all ~he United States will have 16 former WCHA players skaung , for it in Lake Placid, N.Y., where the Winter Games will be held in February. 
But that is not to say the WCHA will have to take a back· seat to Olympic hockey On the contrary, only two teams. were significantly affected by graduation and those that were hurt by Olympic losses are not about to sit back and die. 
There will be a lot of young skaters out there this year, but that also was 'he case last season. Remember back to last year's finish, when everything was decided on the last w.eekend of play and only four points separated the top four teams. Look for much more of the same balance. 
Here's a rundown of this year's league: 
COLORADO COLLEGE: Jeff Sauer's Tigers nabbed the last playoff spot a year agoJVhil skating 10 freshmen and hope to rise a bit in the standings. Sorry, but no. They return a host of players on the blue line but lost goalie Scott Owens. Tom Frame saw limited action in the nets last year and should get the call. WCHA top scorer Dave_ Delick is the big loss. On offense Sophomore Bruce A1kens a~d juniors Gary Reinking and Greg Whyte should be the b1g guns. 
DENVER: The Pioneers will probably be the youngest team in the league this year. Coach Marshall Johnston concedes he may have as many as 15 freshmen and sophomores in the lineup. In goal, sophomores Scott Robinson and Stuart Birenbaum should again see equal time and provide a solid base for the defense, which returns 
four players.  On the attack seniors·  Mark Davidson and  
Vince Magnan anchor the left side.  Sophomores Darrel  
Morrow,  Andy Hill,  Glenn Johnson  and  Ed  Beers  will  

comprise a major part of the offense. They'll be young but should fare well. 
MICHIGAN: The Wolverines were hit hard by injuries last year and won only six games ·· including just one after Christmas. The return of Dan Lerg, Murray Eaves and Terry Cullen to the forward lines should be a big_ boost. Tim Manning leads six regulars ':):lCk on the blue lme. Co~ch Dan Farrell will have to decide from among four goahes, with junior Rudy Varvari having a slight edge. With a healthy season they should be playoff-bound. 
MICHIGAN STATE: The Spartans have missed the playoffs the last three years but have a new coach, Ron Mason, who brought Bowling Green to the NCAA final four just three years after his arrival. Russ Wel~h ha~ _led the team in scoring the past three seasons and will be Jomed up front by sophomore Joe Omiccioli and juniors Leo Lynett and Ken Paraskevin. Ted Heusing leads four returnees on defense in front of goalies Mark Mazzoleni and Doug Belland. 
MICHIGAN TECH: The graduation of goalie John Rockwell will hurt John Macinnes' Huskies the most. Darcy Way and Frank Krieber will vie with freshman Rob Polmantuin for that spot. Gord Salt, last year's leading goal scorer in the WCHA, returns with Rick Boehm. Defense is a big question mark. Freshmen will play a key role here. 
MINNESOTA: Last year's NCAA champions have been ransacked by the Olympics, with tive top players and eve~ • 

NO. PLAYER POS. HT. WT. AGE 1 Bob McNamara G ~-10 150\ 18 2)ohn Friedmann D 6-1 200 21 3 Jim Brown D 6-4 205 ·'19 4 Jeff Brownschidle D 200 20
6-2 
5 John Cox 195·:'19
D 6·1 
6 Gre~ Meredith w 6-1 20'5 21 
7 Kevm Humphreys w 5·8 160 20 
S Ted Weltzin c 5·11 175 21 
9 Bill Rothstein w 170 l9
5·9 
10 Kirk Bjork 170 18
w 5·9 
11 Jeff Logan w 5-10 175 19 
12)eff Perrh w 5·9 185 20 
14 Tom Mic alek c 165 21
5·9 
1') David Poulin c ' )·11 175 21 16 Mark Sicoly c 6.-0 '175 19 17 Rex Bellomy w 5·1 i 175 18 19 Don Lucia D 21
6-0 185 
20 Scott Cameron D 6·2' 205 20 22 John Hi~gins w :S-10 175 18 23 ~oho Sc midt 0 6·0 200 19.... 
24 at Devine w 5·10 180 25 Dan Collard w o.Q 195' 29 Gres Kania D ,.10 u~s 30 Dav1d Laurion G 16$
5·7 
31 Mark Senores 155
G 6·0 
Mark Doman 

l 
RW 5'·8 165 
Dave Lucia RW 17~
·· S·IO
Dan Rectenwald LW 5·8 i6o 
*Micblgall State 
~Michigan Stall 


Cornell at lthaf;a, NV 
Cornell at Rocllester, NY 
"WiSI)(lnsln

Brian "'Wfa<ionsin 
Beglane 
coach Herb Brooks skipping this season. Acting coach Brad Buetow faces a momentous cask in salvaging something for those rabid Gopher fans. In terms of names Don Micheletti and Tim Harrer return on offense. Sophomore goalie 'Jim 
J etland is a good one and should fill in nicely for the graduated Steve J anaszak. Buetow says he's excited but it appears even Moses might have trouble working a miracle "here. That's what it may take. 
MINNESOTA.-DULUTH: The Bulldogs lost defenseman Curt Giles to graduation and center Mark Pavelich to the Olympics. That last one hurts a lot. Gus Hendrickson has a 
balanced offense back, though, and a good/oalie in senior Bill Perk!. They finished third la~t year an should end up about the same this time around. 
NORTH DAKOTA: Last year's regular season champs did not lose much but will be hurt by the exit of Kevin Maxwell for the U.S. Olympic team. Goalie Bob Iwabuchi is among the league's elite. white the blue line corps ret_urns alm?st intact. On offense Mark Taylor, Dou Smail and R1ck Zaparniuk lead the returnees. Gin Gasparini's club was the most penalized in the league last year but three,of those 
leaders are gone.  They're a very strong contender for the  
title once again.  
NOTRE DAME:  The surprise of the WCHA last year,  

Lefty Smith's crew lost only one key player in Steve Schneider and is a talent-laden team. Greg Meredith, Tom Michalek Ted Weltzim and Dave Poulin lead the offense while th~ defense remains intact. Goalie Dave Laurion should shine again and also should be helped by the arrival 13f freshman Bob McNamara. With a healthy year and the expected improvement the Irish may find themselves with their first league crown. 
WISCONSIN: Alright Badger fans, raise your right hand and wave bye-bye to Mark Johnson, Mr. Everything for the offense the last three years, who has left for the Olympic team. Ouch! That hurts. In addition six key players graduated. Scott Lecy, Theran Welsh and Jim Scheid, however, could provide a solid base for the offense while sophoineore goalie Roy Schultz, who posted the best winning percentage in the league last year, anchors the defense. Freshmen will play a key role here. 
Sc rhereyou have it." The poinE spread at the bottom of the pack should be very close and I don't think you' II see more than four points separating the last plate team from the last playoff spot. For whatever it's worth, here's how I think they' II finish: 
1. 
North Dakota 6 Michigan Tech 

2. 
Notre Dame 7 Minnesota 

3. 
Wisconsin 8 Michigan 

4. 
Minnesota-Duluth 9 Michigan State 

5. 
Denver 10 Colorado State 


Sit back, relax and enjoy the show. It promises to be a good one. 
' '
' 
[continued from page 7] 
Certainly a key to last year's team was the play of the four freshmen forwards, top scorer Dave Poulin, Jeff Loran,]eff Perry and Bill Rothstein. AI will be looked upon as an intefiral part of the Irish offense. Fe ow sophomores Dan Collard and Pat Devine should vie for one wing skot, and the addition of freshmen irt Bjork and kohn Higgins should make the Irish o ense a very potent one. 
"We will have two of our top three lines intact from last Jear," notes Smith, "and that shoul work to our benefit. About halfofour forwards are sophomores so we obviously are still quite young. But last year they proved what th(, can do so now it is all a matter o continuin~ to improve.'' 
Defensively the Insh lost no one and actually have seven experienced blue liners to call upon. John Friedmann is the only senior amon9 them. 
Halfof the goalten ing is set. Dave Laurion, last year's workhorse who appeared in 32 games, is back after postins a 4.395 goals against average m his tnitial campaign. 
"We worked the daylights out of Dave last year," says Smith. "He came through in outstanding fashion, 
Bowling· Green wmern MII:JIIganU,S.Int'lat San Diego
u.s.lnt'l at san Diego"Minnllsota 
'\Minnesota 
"North Dakota 
"North Dakota 
•colorado ColltQ• 
..Colorado Coll8llll 
*Michl~an Tech 
·"'Michigan Tech "WI$Callsln 
•wt.con•lil 
"MlnnesJta.Duluth 
•Mlnn~~Sota.Oulutfl *Michigan*Michigan*Michigan State 
*Michigan State 
•Minnesota . *Minnesota 
• • . Laurion 
[continued from page 8] 
glove hand and super body control." 
"What we'll probably do is go with Dave on Friday nights and Bob on Saturdays,'' says Smith, in a tone reminiscent of the days when Moher and Peterson combined to form one of the toughest tandems in the nation. "Ofcourse that might change," Smith warns, "but those are the plans right now.'' 
And no one is happier than Laurion. 
"I think you might say I got a little tired towards the end of last season," the friendly Laurion admits. ''I know I 

. played better during the first half of the year than I did down the stretch. Playing every game, plus five days of practice combined with classqork; well, that can wear you down." But thin~s look good for the Irish this year wnh Laurion and McNamara along with sophomore walk-on Mark Schores (who will proved necessary back-up strength) set to handle the goaltending chores. "I think it's going to be a great season," emphasizes Laurion, who should be a top contender for all­wcha honors before it's through. In fact, he has only one small complaint. ''The puck does hurt when you stop it," he grins. ''But It hurts a whole lot more when you don't.'' -........ 
Work remains 
though, and I really don't kn-ow where we would have been without him. We hope to be able to spell him this year and keep him well-rested." 
The main reason Smith hopes to be able to rest Laurion is the arrival of freshman Bob McNamara, the son of former Toronto Maple Leafs goalie Gerry. "Bob is a very smart goalie," observes Ric Schafer, assistant coach to Smith. "I look for him to use his goaltending savvy to step into the fast paced WCHA right away." 
"All of our players worked hard conditioning themselves over the summer," concludes Smith. "I am pretty J?leased with what I have seen so far m our two scrimmages and I have to say we're coming along okay. With the WCHA, however, you just can never tell. As long as we remain health)', we remain optimistic.'' 
Irish Extra Staff Editor-Mark Perry Ass 't Editor-Paul Mullaney Copy Editor-Craig Chval Design-Beth Huffman 


.. 


II 

.. The Observer 
Carter a·dopts 'Office of Families' 
KANSAS CITY MO. (A.P)­address a continuation of C:ir­starving human beings in President Carter, declaring that ter' s assertion of a need for Cambodia. "The money is to be the family unit is in trouble, moral and family values, ex­funneled through the Red Cross told a Roman Catholic audience pressed in his ] uly 15 ' 'crisis of and the United Nations Child­yesterday, that he is estabising conftdence" speech. ren's Fund. an "Office for Families" in the Powell said Carter received The aid program was first Deparm.ent of Health, Educa­more than 100,000 pieces of disclosed by government sour­tion and Welfare. mail, overwhelmingly positive, ces last week. Sources said 
Speaking to the National Con­after the]uly speech. f!e said Carter originally had been ference of Catholic Charities, it was the most mail received scheduled to reveal the plan at the President called the family about a Presidential. speech in a nc;ws conference last Tues­"one aspect of our national recent hi§tory. day, but delayed the announce­life'' where a partnership of The Presi<{ent also praised the ment because of technical ques­public and private interests is Catholic charities and made tions on distribution of the 
needed. frequent references to the re­money. 
In his speech to the Catholic cent visit of Pope]ohn Paul II. After a two-hour stop here, Charities, Carter said families He called his meeting with the Carter was scheduled to travel "are the foundation of healthy Pope "one of the great privi­to Chicago for a fund-raising and vibrant society." But he leges of my presideny." reception. He planned to hold a added: · Carter also formally announc­"town meeting" Tuesday with 
Today, what Pope John XXIII ed that the United States is citizens of Dolton, Ill., a Chica­called 'the ftrst and essential pledging $7 millions "to help go suburb, before flying back to cell of human society' is in feed tens of thousands of Washington. trouble. Many famihes have been strained to the breaking point by social and economic 
Protesting Israelis , soldiers 
forces beyond their control. Some indeed have broken." Carter said three White House 
play rough games
ConferencP:> on Families will be 
held next summer in Baltimore, TEL AVIV, Israel (AP) -Ultra­materials to erect camps theyMinneapolis and Los Angeles nationalist Israelis staked out called ''footholds.'' Reports onfor a "long overdue assessment camps on the occupied West the number of camps rangedof how actions by government Bank yesterday, and played from 28 to 40, but it was by farand major private instititions hide-and-seek with soldiers try­the largest and best-orchestrat­help, hurt, or neglect Am<:rican ing to end their protest against ed operation launched by thefamilies." 

government settlement policy. Gush Emunim settlement or­Carter said the "Office for At nightfall the army and ganization.
Families" in HEW is the first of defense ministry claimed to In recent weeks Gush Enu­its kind and will help impkment , have evacuated most of the nim, whose mane means Bloc ofthe recommendaions of the approximately 30 campsites, the Faithful, had harassed theWhite House conferences. 
but settlers· in at least one camp army by putting UJ? a camp orWhite House press secretary refused orders to leave. Others two each week outside authoriz­Jody Powell, traveling with the jumped from one location to ed settlements.
president, said Carter planned another when troops approach­Yesterday's big operationto repeat the family theme in ed. was a response to a cabinetfuture speeches. He called tb:'e 
"It's like a cat-and-mouse decision Sunday a~ainst the game,'' said Defense Ministry expropriation of pnvate Arab spokesman Dan Weinreich. land for ] ewish settlements. Nine of the demonstrators Gush Emunim says its West , , , SM~C were arrested, and one shoot­Bank settlements are throttled ing incident was reported when for lack of enough larid, and the Moshe Shamir, a parliament organization was nqt satisfied [continued from 14] member who supports the sett­with the cabinet's decision to lers' protest, refused to obey allocate state-owned land for 
In the ftnal contest, St. orders to stop at an army six settlements. Mary's defeated Center College roadblock north of Jerusalem. In Cairo, a statement issued by a score of 2-0. Freshman A soldier fired one shot that hit by the Egyptian Foreign Minis­Lrsa Keeley scored both goals a wheel of Shamir' s car, the try said the decision by Prime for the Belles. Senior goalie, army spo~<;s~an said, but there Minister Menachem Begin'sBonnie Keyes, played excellent were no mJunes. cabinet was a obstruction in the 
games with two shut outs to her Shamir claimed he had the peace process. "There is no credit. right to go anywhere as a difference between Israel's sei­The St. Mary's field hockey member of parliament, but a zure of state land or private team finished their season with senior military official, who land in the occupied terntories. a 3-4-2 record. Some of the girls asked not to identified, said All land is Arab land and Israel 
felt that their game play peak­Shamir's behavior had been has no right to it,'' the Egyptian ed at the end of the season. The provocative and he was lucky statement said. continuing team members are that there had not been a Begin's opposition in parlia­hopeful for an early winning tragedy. ment also condemned the ~ov­
season next fall. The team will Some 2,000 Jewish settlers, ernment's policy. Yossi Sar1d, a miss the consistent play of including women and children, doveish member of the opposi­graduating seniors Kelly Sulli­moved out of their West Bank tion Labor Party, said Gush van, Bonnie Keyes and Jessie villages before dawn yesterday Emunim was ''contributing to Bennett. with tents and rough building the destruction of this state.'' 
No shield for reporters 
T.\r. station yields to court 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The ector Harry Frey and Tuttle to might not have existed and that Indiana Supreme Court ordered turn over the documents to the TV editorial quoted the a Terre Haute television station Hicks. ' state Highway Commission as and a newspaper reporter yes­The station and Tuttle the source of its material. terday to turn over documents appealed to the high court, George A. Brattain, attorney which WTHI-TV and Terre arguing that the shield law for the television station and Haute Star reporter Richard C. allowed them to refuse. the newspaper, argued that the Tuttle may have received from In his arguments before the circuit court had no right to the Indiana Highway Commis­high court, Hicks' lawyer, Mal-order the documents to be sion are not protected by the colm Rukerman, said the re-turned over, and said Hicks had state's reporter shield law. quest came because of a 1976 presented no "proof that any 
The shield law allows a WTHI-TV editorial which quot-documents even existed. Ne!th­reporter to refuse to reveal. the ed state highway officials as er the TV station nor Tuttle sources of information in news saying Hicks was trying to have said whether they receiv­stories. delay construction of the new ed any written material from 
The documents are being road. highway officials. sought by Carl D. Hicks, who Hicks had protested the loca-· "It's a clear right of non-dis­owned land through which Indi­tion of the road, sayin~ that as closure in a court proceeding," ana 63 was rerouted. it was originally desrgned, it Brattain said of the shield law. 
The White Circuit Court, would have gone over the The only exceptions, he said, which is deciding how much g~aves in a family cemetery on occur in criminal cases, where money the state Highway Com­h1s property. reporters can be compelled to mission must pay Hicks for the Rukerman said the editorial testify if they were eye witness­land, last month ordered the and a story by Tuttle in the es to a crime or if they are television station, its news dir-newspaper implied the graves ordered to produce notes. 
• • • Fords 

[contz'nuedfrom page I.] 
document from a court file in a pending criminal trial in Wina­mac, IN, against Ford. The automaker is charged with reck­less homicide stemming from the deaths of three women fatally burned when a Pinto they were riding in was struck from behind and its /as tank ruptured and explode . 
Other documents related to the Pinto suit disclosed that Ford produced the Pinto des­pite knowledge that its gas tank design was vulnerable and that a cost-benefit analysis showed the company believed it would be more profitable to not make the design safer even taking into account the cost of ''burn deaths" and "burn injuries:" 
The newspaper said the body­testing department "has gener­ally'' operated as follows: 
"If production samples sub­'ffiitted for validation fail to meet FMVSS (Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard) re­quirement, no report is issued. The responsible design depart­ment is verbally contacted at the working level and immedi­ately told of fmdings. Within the past month, the Body Testing Department Manager has directly contacted the af­fected design manager. 
''The test is then canceled officially with a letter stating the date of cancellation, but no reason given. The original data is filed by the Body TestingDepartment." 
l 
The memo from Finkenauer, whom the newspaper said is retired, went on: "additional samples are usually brought in 
l to determine if a 'pass' can be achieved, with no corrective 
I 

action implied ... " 
Pinkenauer's memo recom­mended establishment of "a clearly deftned policy'' given "the realization that our re­cords could be subject to sub­poena.'' 
Make it 
BIG 
in layout! 


Join the Observer's production· department. , We can't promise vou a trip to 
i, 

Acapulco, but we ~ promise you ~ 
a_good job with great people.
I. 
ontact Ceil at the Observe office, call 8661, or 1715. 

( 

The Observer -Sports Tuesday, October 16, 1979-page 12 
I 
'
' 
r 
~ ~ 
' 
! 

STEREO CLEARANCE HOUSE 
HAS LOWEST STEREO 
Pioneer SX780 receiver $259. Technics SLD2 turntabl!! $109. Akai GXC706D cassette d•ck $159. 
Our Free Catalog has many more deals· on major brands. even bwer prices on our monthly specials sheet. Send now and lind out how to buy current $7.981ist lp's for $3.69. Stereo Clearance House Dept. CHat. t029 Jacoby St .. Johnstown, Pa. 15902. Phone Quotes 814-536-1611. 
ARffiANQO'S BARBER & HAIR. 
STYLE SHOP 1437 N. Ironwood Dr' South Rend 277-0A15 Sue, Ruthie. Kim Armando--stylist 
mon-wed-frl 8~5:30 tues-thuts 8-8 pm so.t 8-2 
' 
by o.ppt. Ollly ao.t-no nppt. needed 
.... 

Pre·Law
Soc:iet 
and the Placement Bureau will spcinsor the FifthAnnual Law School
Caravan __________. 
for the first time ever at Notre Dame wb0 : Admic;sions officers from over 
60la hoob en:Wednesday. October 17, 

1 m -4:30 m
b ere:·Stepan Center 
make yout tesetvaticns eadlt fot ''The Hotel California'' nd homecoming dance 
length .of stay-Thutsday, Oct. 18 
check •n-9Pm maslc by one of the check out-lam big bands. charge-S4.00 per petson . f 
. sem1 orma1 
room locat1on -stepan center 1 sponsored by the student union socio.l commission tickets on so.le o.t student union offices o.nd dinln ho.lls 
Belles take third in SMC volleyball tourney 
by Kate Huffman Sports Wn"ter 

Indiana Tu-b. and St. Joseph's Collcgl took first and second ptace respectively in the second annual Saint Mary's College Volleyball Invitational held at Angela Athletic Facility on Saturday. 
Tht· S<Jint Mary's volleyball team, howevl r, did not fare as well. The Belles finished with a 1-·' record on the day, their only victory corning over South­western Michigan. In their rnatrh again~;t runner-up St . .Joseph\., rhe Belles were im­pressive. winning the first game and leadtng in the second. But, St. Joe's rallied and took tht· gam{· from Saint Mary's and then v.ent on to win the third and deciding game. The Belles were also ddt·atnl hy tournamt·nt winner 
,. Indiana Tech. and Illinois Be ned it r inc. "I think we had an off day," 1 rr~rnarkt·d roach Erin Murphy. "The <·xperience of playing in such a large tournament was new to the majority of the team and I think it may have had some effect on their play.'' She continued, "We were very sporadic, we won several games 111 differt'nt matches but 

couldn't take the match. As proof of our talent, we scored twice as many points against the championship team (In­diana Tech.) than any other team in the tournamem, so I was pleased with our pt>rform­ance in that match." 
Individually for the Belles, Amy Terry stood but as a key player. "Amy had the best day I've seen her ~;>lay," said Murphy. "Every time we gave her the hall, she put it away for us. She was amazing!" 
(Continued from page 16] 
7-5, 6-2. 

The awesome duo of Coash and Fitzgeral only had one vision in mind as they stepped on the court to represent Saint Mary's in the number one double slot. They glided past Manchester 6-0, 6~2, and faced Notre Dame in the second round. Belle coach Sandy Frey described this doubles match as the toughest the girls en­countered. However, there seemed to be little trouble, with Coash and Fitzgerald winning · 6-1, 7-6. In the finals, the girls 
met up with DePauw, the 
overall winner of the tourna­
ment, and handed. the Blue 
Demons a 6-1, 6-2 loss. 
The number two doubles team 
of Smith and Maureen O'Brien 
didn't find DePauw quite as 
Jcontinued from page 16] 
pass off of a Panther netender and had to get it through another Panther's legs for the score, the play was whistled offside. Not withstanding the ,efforts of a less than lethargic Hunter, the call stood. 
With a 2-1 lead the Irish could have settled back on defense 
· andmake UWM force the play. Instead the Irish. anxious to get back the nullified goal, opened up and were caught short­handed on defense. The Panthers took advantage of this developmenr and hit for three scores in 16 minutes A second goal by Akiwowo at 81:2 3 added salt to the wound and closed the scoring. It was rhe fourth consecutive Panther Tour­nament title for UWM 
Ohio Universiry defeated Wis­consin in the consolation game 2-0 and thus captured third 
place. • Friday: Irish surprise Bob!ars 
''.Anyti~e y~can 
play a 
Murphy also complimented the team's setters (Amy Morris and Kathy Monahan) on both their performances and stamina in the four matches played. 
As for the success of the tournament, Murphy feels things ran smoothly. "The tournament went well. I recei'v · ed several compliments from other coaches. The Saint Mary's girls who volunteered were very helpful. I am greatful to all those who helped out. For us, hosting the tournament was exciting and 
• • • SMC netters 
generous, losing m the semi­finals 7-5, 1-6, 6-4. Terri Bracker and Mo O'Brien did very well in first and second round doubles competition de­feating Hunington fJ-0, 6-1 and Anderson 6-0, 6-3. However, in the semi-finals they found themselves on the other side of the net, facing number two seed Taylor. Saint Mary's lost this final match 6-2, 6-3. 
Overall, Coach Frey was pleased with the performance of the team saying, "when we lost, it was to teams seeded in the tournament." The entire team, will continue practicing throughout the winter. 
A bright light that the team will carry throughout the long South Bend winter will be the fact that Saint Mary's will be represented in the Regionals, played in the spring. Patsy 
Split
' ' 
' 

good teflm even tor most ot the game and rhen come v.,n at the end, you've done well. Today
1

we did well." 
That's the way Rich Hunter assessed Notre Dame·s perfor­mattce Friday against Ohio University in the first' round of the Panther Invitationai"To~rn­ament in Milwauk~e. The Irish, employing a converging de­fense for most of rhe contest, used rwq late g?als by K,evin 
Lovejoy to surpnse a frustrated d~sn t take throw-ms, found Bobcat squad 2-0. The victory h1mself wnh the ball on the enabled Notre Dame to advance sideline. He spotted Lovejoy to the championship match u_nattended, 15 yards to rhe against the Universuv of.•Wis-nght of_ the Bobcat goa! and consin-Milwauket-. who d~feat-threw tt tn to htm. ~oveJOY s low ed the B~dgt-rs of \Visconsin blast looked like It would be 4-1 in the other preliminary handl,d by Bobcat goalkeeper round. Warren Ziekowirz, but instead 
' Ohw threatened to pur the it bounced through his hands, game away early, but due to the~ off his chesr and into the ~ar heroics of Irish netminder John corner of rhe net for a 1-0 Insh Milligan they could not dent rhe lead. . net. In the first 20 minutes, Less t_han three mmur~s lat~r Bobcats Ted Cunningham the lnsh caughr Oh1o sull Mak.rame Ould Rabah and Reb~ scratching their_ heads over the Barbaria all had glmering op-first goal. Th1s urn«: ~~ale portuniries from close range streaked down the left _wm~and and in each case Milligan crossed the ball. The_ ball was thwarted the.i.r efforts wirh div-hung up by the _wmd . I'Wg ing saves. At the 18-minure enough _to cause Ziekow~tz to mark Barbaria had a vacant bobble u.. When It _shpped goal, but miscalculated the thr?~gh h1s _hands LoveJOY was angle and shot it wide from less wa.ttmg on h1s doorstep to knock 
• than I 0 yards out. ~ it hOVl~. It was shortly after that The victory marked the fourth 
Bobcat ,gaffe that m()memum consecutive shutout for Notre began to shift in favor of tht. Pame~ . . Irish. Halfback Paul Devereux lJU;:,H .t<ICKS: Kevm LoveJoy was inserted into the Notre and Tom Luetkehans were 
Dame -link brigade and im-named to _the all-tour~arnent mediately the. Irish offense ream. LoveJoy ~ow nas 1 7 g~ t,e~an to click. Using a and le~ds all lnsh _scorers wt~ dtip·and-run offensive strategy 2~ ~m~. • Sam~ Kab~ as Notrt Dame controlled the final second With 15 pomt~ J81l e!B.ht 2i" minutes of the first half. goals S!ld seven ass1~: ~e Both Lovejoy and Sarni K:a~ale, n~ Irish _ho!_llt ~~e &s this' had solid chances, but the· i_Fridav ua••t M1chtgan State; 
if~~s. _~e_f!_t . tC?_ .!he ~;ssin_t. .ac 4 p.m. 
we're looking forward to It next year.'' 
Murphy and the Belles hope to 
get back on  the winning  track  
Wt>dnesday  when  they  host  
Creighton  University  and  

Loyola of Chicago in a tri­angular meet slated to begin at C• J?..m. in Angela Athletic Fadity. On Thursday, the Belles travel to Hammond, Indiana. to face Purdue­Calument, Purdue-North­central, and Trinity Christian College in a quad meet hosted by Purdue-Calument. 
Coash will be the Belles number one singles representa­tive, as well as the other half of the talented doubles team with Maureen Fitzgerald. 
... Irish 
(continued from page 14] 
Piane has decided on six of his seven ~;ompetitors for the meet. Hatherly, Bicicchi, Filosa, Bar­tolini, Novai., and ChJck Aragon are all slated •to compete for the lriah. The seventh runner will be an­nounced later in tht> week. 
"We accomplishe,, what wt· wanted to. Now we have to prepare for State,·' stated Piane in reference to r he team's first victory of the season. 
rooms locked in a scoreless tie. It was deja vu in the -second halffor Millisan, who again had to practice h1s acrobatics in the early going. But once he gor by 
the  first  15  minutes  of  the  
second  half,  Milligan  was  no  
longer needed.  

At 35:53, after maintammg control in the Ohio zone, Notre Dame got the only break it needed. Kahale. who normally 
• , . : 






The Observer Tuesday, October 16, 1979 -page 13 
Mounta.ineering#3. 

(i.e.,a quickjaunt to your favorite package emporium or wateringhole) and ends by downing the mountains (i.e., slow slaking· swallows of the brew that is Busch). 
qr However, between those two points lies a vast area of personal peccadilloes sometimes called technique 
I 
I 
and sometirnes called methodology (depending on 
I 
your ~jar). Hence, this ad. qr Sipping vs. chugging. 
~ 
Both have their merits, of course. But generally speak­
\ 
I 
ing, except for cases of extreme thirst or a leakingglass, sipping is the more prudent practice for se2ious, sustained mountaineering. qr Next, th..-j proper posi­
tion. Some swear by sit­:· ting; others by standing. Suffice it to say that the most successful mountaineers are flexible, so you'll find. both sitters and standers. 
(Except on New Year's Eve, . when it's almost impossible.:·.~-...,~­to find a sitter. ) qr Which. ·.· :· 
sionally a neophyte will : sprinkle salt in his Busch; 
and a few on the radical : 
.· . uncomprctmised fringe will even add egg. l 
While these manipula can't be prohibited (this is, after all, a free country), they are frowned upon. Please be advised that purity is a virtue, and the ; natural refreshment of Busch is best uncompromised. 
qr Finally, there's the issue of containers. Good taSte dictates a.. glass be useti But bad planning sometimes prevents that. Ifyqu:find yourself forced to drink from the can, you should minimiZe; this breach of etiquette. Be formal. Simply let your little finger stick out stiffly (see Fig. 4 ). Happy Mountaineering! 
' 'i :
:i ; 
. ' 
; :I 
I l 
I . 
. 
Dorit just reach for a be~r. BUSCH~ad for the mountams. 
©Anheuser-Busch. Inc. St. Louis. MO\ 
' 
. ! : 
.. 

The Observer -SportsBoard Tuesday, October 16, 1979-page 14 
Field Hockey 
Wednesday Franklin 2. Notre Dame 1 
Friday Iowa 3. Notre Dame 0 Northwestern 4, Notre Dame 2 Saturday Western Illinois 6, N' tre Dame 1 
Vollevball 
Saint Francis of Fort Wayne over Saint Mary's 13-15, 15-10, 15-5. and 15-13. 

Molarity 

Interhall 

WOMEN'S FLAG FOOTBALL Semi-Final' Badin 14. Lvons 0 Breen-Phillips over Off Campus Finals Thursday, C'ctober 18 at 8p.m. Cartier Field. 
\ 
.. Baseball 

Tuesday's Game Pittsburgh (Candelaria 14-9) at Balti­more (Palmer 1G-6), (N) 
The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 

_______________________,...,..,. 
RIVER CITY RECORDS 
northern Indiana's largest record and tape selection and concert ticket headquarters 
Sl.OO OFF!! 
any album 01 tope ( now thtu Nov. 3, 
limit I coupon pet petson) 
1-18,000 albums and tapes In stock 
1-ND/SmC student checks accepted for up to 1 J20.00 over purchase amount ~ Open 10 to 10, 7 days a week 
I 
I 
I Rivet City Recotds 
I 50970 U.S 31 North I 3 miles north of campus 277-4242, ..
L 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
J 
I. 
I' 
Ili 

----------------------··-~~··! 
Soccer 
NOTRE DAME VS OHIO UNIVERSITY 
Second half 
1. Notre Dame, Kevin Lovejoy (Sami Kahale), 35:53 
2. Notre Dame, Lovejoy (Kahale), 
3607 NOTRE DAME VS BETHEL 
First Half Notre Dame, Sami Kahale (Kevin Love­joy, 36:11 
Bethel, Bill Odell (Bob Snyder), 38:35 Notre Dame, Mario Manta (Paul Dever­eux) 40:36 
Second Half Notre Dame, Steve Burgoon (Mike Mal) 
44:20 
NOTRE DAME VS UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN-MILWAUKEE 
First Half 
1. UWM, Tunji Akiwowo (Pete 1\neZIC), 27:06 
1. Notre Dame, Kevin Lovejoy (Sami 
Kahale), 38:40 Second Half 
2. UWM, John Santorineous (unas­sted), 57:27 
' 3. UWM, Dave Scherer (Craig Webb), 64:05 
4. UWM, Santorineous (Can Sirln), 
73:49 
5. UWM, Akiwowo (Knezic), 81:23 
by Michael Molinelli 

ACROSS 29 Little-Place for a 30 Small basketball number 
5 Student 33 Desirous 10 Inner city 34 Transparent 
section cotton 14 Water plant 35 Time of day 15 Positive 36 Wyomingite 
electrode 40 Corroded 16 Starchy 41 Tittles 
plant 42 Heavy soil 17 Dakotan 43 Word of 20 Stocking agreement 
part 44 Happy 21 Standard 45 Car or cast 
amount 47 Promenade 22 Command 48 Gloom 23 Author 49 Cut off 
Harte 52 Big book 24 Intimidates 53 Small strap 26 Sullen 56 Utahan 
Answers for Monday's 
'Daily Crossword' are 
unavailable. The 
Observer regrets this 
mistake 
60 
61 62 
63 64 65 
2 3 4 
5 6 7 
8 9 10 11 
12 13 18 
19 23 24 25 
Beverage 
makers 
Originated 
Kind of 
collar 
Promising 
Howled 
Like some 
mornings 
DOWN 
Sword 
section 
Grocery 
item 
Look at 
amorously 
.. _Joey" 
Plains 
Indian 
Not quali­
fied 
Harbor Wedding ' 
promise 
Moon 
vehicle Excels Enrich Yen Wasteland 
tract Possessive Bird hunter Group of 
persons Lines the roof Earthen jar 
26 Archipelago including Borneo 
27 Egg-shaped 28 Uses the train 29 Footloose 
fellow 30 Thighbone 31 Expel by 
legal process 32 Calendar 
sections 34 Complete 37 "The Mar­
riage of-" 38 Bakery item 39 In a frenzy 45 -up (reck· 
oned) 46 Kind of school 47 Having 
large bulk 48 Elk 49 "Fame is 
the-" 50 Protagonist 51 Birds of 
the sea 52 Helen of­53 Kind of bag 54 Confess 55 Skeletal 57 Seize 58 Monastery 
man 59 Cerise 

"Rocky Horror Picture Show" Friday and Saturday night at midnight 
A ROMANTIC COMEDY WITH A NEW lWISTI 
~.,ers 
~ 
slarnng lall'3 Antonelli 
Football 
1. Alabama (42) 5-o-0 1,332 2. Texas (26) 45-{rQo-1,313
1
3. Nebraska 1,204 4. So. California 5-o-1 1,108 5. Houston 5-o-D 1,011 
6. Ohio State • 6-G-0 1,010 7. Florida State 6-Q-0 894 8. Oklahoma 4-1-0 883 9. Notre Dame 4-1~ 810 10_ Arkansas 5-Q-0 803 11. Michgan 5-1-D 746 12. Washington 5-1-0 527 13. Brigham Young 5-o-o 497 14. Auburn 4-1-0 370 1fi. No. Carolina State 5-1-0 359 1G. Purdue 4-2-0 229 17. Pittsburgh 4-1-0 147 18. Tennessee 4-1-0 141 1!l. North Carolina 4-1-0 139 20. Navy 5-o-o 117 
Monday Night's Game 
New York 14, 'VIinnesota 7 
Belles 
take 2-out-of-3 
b_y Theresa Hickman Sports Writer 
Saturday the St. Mary's field 
hockey team travelled to Frank­
lin College for a tournament 
with Franklin College, Berea 
and Center College. The Belles 
ended up winning two out of the 
three games played. 
In the first match against 
Franklin College, St. Mary's 
was defeated by a score of 4-2. 
The Belles were ahead by two 
goals until the end of the firs~ 
half. Kelly Sullivan and Lisa 
Keeley were responsible for the 
St. Mary's scoring in the game. 
The second game against Berea was a great comeback for the Belles. St. Mary's defeated the opposing team by a score of 4-0, with goals by Kelly Sulli­van, Lisa Keeley, Jessie Ben­nett and Patty Meagher. 
[Continued on page 11] 
Irish overwhelm Loyola 
by}ohn Smith 
Sports Wn'ter 
The Notre Dame Cross­
Country team overcame the 
elements and a helplessly out­
manned Loyola of Chicago 
squad to win their first dual 
meet of the season on Saturday. 
The Irish totaled only 17 points, 
raking seven of the eight spots, 
in comparison with the Ram­
blers' 46. 
Tony Hatherly captured the champion's position by running the six mile course in a rime of 
30:52. John Filosa finished second followed by Carl Bicic­chi in third. After Loyola's Dave Wilson in fourth place came Irishmen Marc Novak and Matt Cato tied foi· the fifth sp.nr. AIdo Bartolini and Jim Moyar ended seventh and eighth res­pectively. 
"The rimesweren't that great, but it wasn't easy racing tn the bad weather," said Coach Joe Piane in ·obvious reference to the sub-50 degree temperature, rainy weather' and significant wind chill. 
After a disappointing-showing in the Notre Dame Invitational last weekend, the victory over Loyola should serve as an inspiration boost to the ream as they prepare for this Friday's State Tournament in Blooming­ton, IN, ar 4 p.m. 
[continued on page 12] 
I I I II I ~ I 

• .. .. • ....................... It .................. -......• .........-•• -.--•"" .-•• 
---~--~-:------~~--~-------------------------------~---­

/ 
.... 
. 

Tuesday, October 16, 1979 -page 16 
Soccer team dumps Bethel 3-1 ... 

by Frank LaGrvtta !'Jports W"riter 
It was not a game to feature in the season highlight film, bt·t hey, a win is a win and the Notre Dame s Kcs ream pickeel up irs eleventh of the year yesterday, dumping Bethel, 3-1 on the Pilots' homt· field. 
The Irish got on the board first when sophomore forward Sami Kahale took a pass from Kevin Lovejoy and drilled it past Bethel goalie Dale Bren­neman at the :.6: II mark of the first period. For Kahale is was his eighth goal of the season and it rouched off a spree that saw three of the game's four goals scored in a four-minute span. 
Bill Odell knotted the score at one apiece when he headed ont· by Notre D~me goalie, John Milligan just 2:34 after Ka­hale's goal. Irish coach Rich Hunter protestnl vehmently that a Bethel player was off sides, but there was no call made and tht· goal was counred. 
But the game wasn't tied long as freshman Mario Manta put the Irish up 2-I just two minutes later. Paul Devereux was credited with an assist on Mama's second goal of the season--a long turner kick that sailed over Brenneman's head and just caught the top left corner of the net. 
For 44 minutes of the second half, it looked as if neither team would score again until, with only forty seconds remaining in the game, junior Steve Burgoon ~ook a pass from Mike Mal and notched his first goal of the ~;easun. Burgoon's insurance rally made rhe score 3-1 in favor uf the I11sh and that's the way the g:;.me ended. 
"Bethel's a much improved team from a year ago,'' said Hunter, r.xalltng his team's 8-1 pounding of the Pilots last season. 
"They played very well and they were emotionally up to beat Notre Dame." 
Hunter admitted that his 
ream did make some mistakes 
bur he was quick to add that 
there were some bright spots in 
the game. 
''I wa_s pleased with the way John Md ltgan handled himself in goal," said Hunter. Mil­ligan, a sophomore filling in for regular goal tender Brian Cui­lather, made seven saves for the Irish. 
"I also thought we played well offensively," he added, pointing out that the Irish fired 34 shot~ on goal. 
"No g:une i<; easy for us because every ream we play wants to beat Notre Dame," the· Irish coach pointed out. 
The win boosted Notre 
Dame's record to 1-7-I while 
dropping the Pilots to 7-4-1 on 
the year. 
The Irish will take to the road 
again on Wednesday for a 4 
p.m. game at St. )9seph's in Rensalaer, IN. They will come back home on Friday to face the Spartans of Michigan State with game time set for 4 p.m. on Cartier Field. 

Sports Briefs. _ _____, 
Sailing Club finishes fifth 
The Notre Dame Sailing Club finished fifth at Navy last weeken_d_ as 12 of the nauon's finest sailing teams met for compeutwn. 
_Team captain Phil Reynolds was third in the A division wrth crew Maragira Cimra. In t~e B ?ivisio!l Linda Hoyte and Mart_h~ Boyle alte~nated sktppenng wtth crew Celia Boyle to tJOJsh seventh. 
~otre_ Dame .w3:s also. sailing, or swimming up at the U~uverslty of Mtchtgan thts past week~n_d: In A divtsion Jay Ktley and Jane Brown, and B dtvtswn Greg Fisher comadore, and Mary Cerny competed for the club. The B re~m man~ged to stay afloat-not as much can be said for rhe rwtce capClzed A team. 
Rally chairman seeks input 
Ric~ Pinkowski, pep rally ch~irman, is seeking student 
reactions  to  a  pep rally tentatively scheduled for Friday,  
October 26.  Students are ur~ed  to respond with a note to  
either  the  Student  Activities  Office  or  the  Student  

Government Office. Unless enough interest is displayed the pre-South Carolina rally will be cancelled. 
Hockey tickets on sale 
Hockey season tickets for students are still available at the ACC Ti_cket: Office. ~tudents have three options when purchasmg nckets: 7 Fndaygames($7.00); 6 Saturday games ($6.00) or 13 total home games ($13.00). All games are those played while school is in session. 
ABC announces games 
NEW YORK (AP)-ABC-TV announced Monday it will televise six college football games next Saturday tn addition to the Southern Cal-Notre Dame. 
Five games will be televised regionally from 4-7 p.m. EDT, headed by Texas and Arkansas in Little Rock. The other re~ional are North Carolina at North Carolina State, Bnngham Young at Wyoming, Ohio University at 1oedo and Grambling State arJackson State. 
• • . splits pair in tournament 
by Paul Partn'dge Sports Wnler 
Sa~: 'UWM Handles Irish 
''People. look at the ~-1 score and say, 'Notre Dame got' blown out.' Bur that's not true. Again we were the victim of a bad call by a referee. Without that call we would have been up 2-1 and it would have been a completely different game." 
Although oAe might question the legitimacy of Hunter's Mark Ambrosious saw the seriousness of th~ situation and int~rfered with Kahale. An obstruction call resulted and after a short pass from Kahale on the free kick Lovejoy fired a hard blast over the Panther defensive wall and into the upper lefthand corner of the net. 
Notre Dame dominated th~ first 10 minutes of the second half with fullbacks Tom Luetke­bands and Oliver Franklin keeping UWM in their zone. After a series of corner kicks there was a loose ball scramble in fr•nt of the Panther gqal. Lovejoy and Jim Sabitus took swipes at the ball but couldn't knock it in. Sal;>itus' try banked off a Panther's knee and bounced to Kahale, who knock­ed it through the legs of a UWM fullback. Despite the fact that Kahale received the 
--[c~;iin,;,d on p;ge i]j! 
i-

statement ~n ltght of the final score, it was indeed a second half offside cal) against Notte\ 
SMC netters finish fourth, 
· Dam~ __!hat .completely altered 1 the c~mpl~on of Sat~rday's i 
Coash takes first at State 
champtonshtp game agamsr tbe University of Wisconsin~Mil­waukee. 
The first h.lf WfS probably the 
most even'-matchtd period of 
the' year lbr ·the Irish; both teams sho..-ed ,good skills in _establishing offensi~ threats. The Panthers httd two excellent chances~ in the first 15 minutes as both halfback Perc Knezic and forward Tunji Akiw?,wo .shot from· point blank, but Notre Dame. golllie Johq Milli­gan robbed' the two UWM 
attacke,rs. 
Milligan WflS not so fortunite 12 fJlinutes later however, ·as Knez.ic fed Akiwowo, who-was p~J!kecl 10 -yards out to Milli-g~_'s left. His quick shot beat Mill.igan cleanly. 
-'lbw8tdsJ the end of~e half ~-D~ had a \fat break WI~ KevUl, !:Lejoy arfd Sami JCalM.lr b~& · tl j_n_ ._90 t,h'-dl~~-·-~.-0\YM__Aullback 
b:_.• Deirdre Grant Sports Wn'ter 
The Saint Mary's tennis team went to State last week and returned home with a fourth place finish. The highling of the tournament was Saint Mary's freshman Pat£y Coash Coash was stunning, leaving behind her a trail of victories and bringing back a first place finish in the number one single~ division. 
In rounds one and two, Coash breezed past competitors from Taylor University and Huning­ton College, defeating both 6-0, 6-0. She found little difficulty in the third round, where she beat her opponent from An~er­
, son College 6-1, 6-1, and ;llum­
· ed the state title. For anyone who has kept an eye on the spectacular play of Coash, they will notice that the freshman has yet to drop a set while playing for the Belles. 
The rest of the Saint Mary's singles players were not as fortunate in their tournament matches. Number two player Maureen Fitzgerald lost 10 the semi-finals 6-1, 6-2, to Linda Hoyer, a member of the Notre Dame team. In a Jon~, very close match, Karen Sm1th lost to her Taylor opponent 4-6, 6-4, 7-5. 
The court scene did not grow any brighter for the Belles as Carmel Maenza and Maureen O'Brien were eliminated from singles competition in the first round. DePauw took away Saint Mary's last chance for victory by defeating number six singles player Mo O'Brien 4-6, 
[contintted on page 12] 







