
~~--r---~----~---­
• • • AP Top Twenty -page 11 


VOL XIII, NO. 64 . an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's . TIWRSDAY,JANUARY 18, 1979 

Suspect held 
by police 
in shooting 
by Mark Rust Senior StaffReporter 
A suspect i~ being held on a $750 bond roday in the Saint Joseph County Jail on a battery charge stemming from the Dec. 11 shooting of a Notre Dame student, Joe Camarda, a senior. Battery is a felony charge. 
South Bend police arrested the suspect, Bobby D. McKinstry, 18, of 914 112 E. Corby St. on Dec. 18, one week to the day after the shooting. The arrest took place at mid-day on the corner of Cleveland and LaPorte in the city when an on-duty policeman, ac­cording to sources close to the case, spotted the suspect wearing a coat that fit the description given them by Camarda of the coat worn by his assailanat at the time of the shooting. 
The suspect appeared yesterday morning in Superior Court for arraignment and was granted a continuance by Judge Robert Miller Jr. The date for the continuance was nor immediately available. 
Mike Costin foundthe South Bendsnow cover to be a deterrent to his cycling plans. [photo 
Camarda was released early
by Dave Rumbach] 
yesterday from the Saint Joseph County Hospital in "gooJ" con­dition after an almost six week hospital stay and three opera­tions, including major explora­

Camarda relates shooting experience 
tory sunzerv. He immediately flew to Washington, DC and his . byTim}oyce right, catching the bullet in my "It apJ?ears to me that they me and helped out my family a home in Reston, VA. neck," Camarda related. (Universttv officials) . are not great deal. ' ' South Bend police are holding really interested. This is the first When asked about the off-cam­two statements implicating Mc­
The bullet travelled through his time this has happened, and r,us situation, Camarda said, Kinstry in the shooting, accor­esophagus, nicked and colla{lsed
"He was about three feet from you'd think they would take some 'Something should be done. The ding to Homicide Lt. Charles
a lung and just missed his spme. 
me when he stopped, drew his definite action,'' Camarda com­Univerisity (administration) must Mabank. Sources close to the
Now lodged in Camarda's liver, 
gun, aimed and fired," Joe mented. take an agressive role and not a case say that police are still
the bullet will not be removed
Camarda said, describing the passive one. · The off-campus seeking a second suspect. 
unless he develops complica­On the positive side, he had only
Dec. 11 shooting by intruders in office does a good job, but The shooting took place at the
tions, according to physicians. praise for the Campus Ministry, 
his Corby St. home. srudents themselves need to get 902 E. Corby Street rnidence
stating, ''The Campus Ministry
At first, Camarda -throught that more involved." that Camarda shared with fellow
Camarda, a senior economics (staff) was great. They really
the bullet had missed him. ''I fell Camarda was released from the senior Rick Lane. News of the
major from Reston, VA was helped out when I needed 1t
down, but got U{l immedia.tely hospital yesterday, and was shooting was not immediately
seriously wounded during the most. They were always coming 
and ran up the statCS, screammg, flown home to Virgnia where he available to srudenrs since the
incident. by to see if I needed anything.
"I've been shot." At first my will be recuperatin~ this semes­shooting occurred two days after
They were great to me, especially
In the · interview which took housemate, Rick Lane, thought ter. However, he sa1d that he will the Observer's last issue of the
Fr. (Thomas) McNally." 
place Tuesday from his hospital was kidding and that the bang he return to South Iknd in the semester. ~d. Camarda related the details had heard was a firecracker that a According to Camarda, "All my spring for the trial and to see his It was the third incidence of an of the shooting in a high voice, friend had set off as a joke. " friends really came through for friends. (conJin11ed on page JJ the result of a bullet passing 
Uine then told Camarda to liethrough his neck. Appearing down and made him comfortable. 
extremely weak, he has lost more Throughout the incident, Ca­~han 40 pounds since the shoot­marda was fully conscious. 
mg. 
Labor Board decides 
Camarda was expected to makeAccording to Camarda, he had a speedy recovery at St. Joseph'sjust gone upstairs at approxi­Hospital, but comr.lications set in mately 10 p.m. the night of the later that week. 'I was OK, but 


against campus workers 
incident, and was in his room then my neck swelled up and they when he heard a knock at the had to operate. '' 
door. At the same time, chimes by Michael Ridenour According to President of Teamsters Local 364 
above the door sounded, indicat­A tracheotomy was performed StaffReporter Roland Wardlow, "I don't agree with the decision 
ing that someone had already on Camarda in what was to be the of the NlRB, but I felt it would be unfair to the 
entered the house. first of three operations. workers if we appealed the ruling and made them The campus workers' 17-month struggle for wait for the result.''
''The second operation was to

"1 walked downstairs, figuring 
unionization by Teamsters Local 364 has been Bull noted that "the NLRB justified our (Notredetermine what organs had beenit was a friend who had just lefi: stymied because of a National Labor Relations Dame's) position on the size of the bargaining unit. 
hit and where the bullet reallyand had forgotten something. I Board (NLRB) ruling Monday to dismiss the It also shows the University has not been too far out was. The other operation was towas halfway down the stairs Teamsters' petition to represent the grounds­of line. 

drain fluids which had built upwhen I called out 'Who's there?' 

keepers as a separate bargaining unit. The NLRB's decision means going back to theinside,'' Camarda explained. 
I heard some noise and went The decision will not be appealed by Teamsters blackboardforTeamstersLocal364. But "we'll bedown to the landing. He has mixed feelings about the 
Local 364. back," Wardlow stated. "I saw one guy halfway out the incident. The Teamsters wanted separate bargaining units, However, Wardlow does not see a new unioniza­
from door and another was near ''I was disappointed that (Uni­such as the groundskeepers and laundry workers, tion attempt by the Teamsters Local364 in the next 
the door. The third guy ran past versity President) Fr. (Theodore) to vote on unionization rather than the entire three months. 
me and stopped. Hesburgh seemed more inter­campus work force. With the interruP.tion of the unionization attempt, "It was all in a split second. It ested in the broad theory of gun "I think it's obvious that the Teamsters did not the University wtll continue to improve worker's happened fast. I guess when he control that in seeing that his have that broad support of the workers,'' Thomas benefits, including health insurance and sick leave, 
was aiming at me, I ducked to the off-campus students are secure. Bull, director of personnel, stated. Bull stated. 


..-. 
~urgery fails to remove all cancer cells from Wayne 
LOS ANGElES~ John Wayne's 9lh-hour cancer operation last week tor the removal of his stomach failed to take all the cancer from his body and there is "a probability that it will spread,' a hospital spo~esman said yesterday .. Cancerous cells have be~n discovered m the lymph nodes m the 71-year-old ~ctor s stomach area said the spokesman, Bernard Strohm, adminstra­tor of the UCLA Medical Center. Strohm said there is a·· possibility that cancer has spread to the lymph nodes throughout the body. He refused to elaborate o~ Wayne'~ prospects for recovery or further treatment. He satd no dec1s1on has been made yet on whether more surgery it needed. 
Schlesinger cites need for oil conservation 
WASHINGTON · -Tough government action may be n~ede~, including gasoline rationing as a "last resott," if Irantan oil production is not restored by this summer, Energy Secretary James R. Schlesinger said yesterday. Schlesinger said a successful voluntary .conservation effott coul~ easily offset the loss of Iranian oil and avoid the need for direct government action. According to Schlesinger, rationing would be extremely "disruptive" to American lifestyles. Howver, Senate Ene~gy Conuruttee Chairman Sen. Henry M. Jackson, D-Was~., said, ''The public is going to have to make some hard chmc~ and there are not many options left.'' The political upheaval m Iran has brought its oil expotts to a coll_lplete halt: Much of the los~ of Iranian oil is being made up by mcreased 1mpotts from Saudi Arabia. 
Indiana bill to curtail sex education programs 
INDIANAPOUS -Sex education in Indiana public schools would be strictly controlled under a bill introduced yesterday by Republican Sen. Joan Gubbins. To conform with the bill's requirements, a sex education program in the primary grades must identify male and female roles as they relate to farruly and social situations. "Teachers shall stress the wonder of the creation oflife_and it.s spiritual implications,:'. the bill stipulates. ''Classroom discuss10n shall center on poslttve, normal, moral behavior.'' Information on contraception and abottion is flatly prohibited, even in classes at the junior and senior high school levels, as is sensitivity training and group encounters "the purpose of which is to alter values." 
State senate proposes 
drug d_ea[er crackdown 
INDIANAPOUS -A bill to require most convicted drug dealers to serve time behind bars won the endorsement yesterday of the Senate Judiciary Committee. The measure, sponsored by Sen. Charles E. Bosma, R-Indianapolis, was sent to the Senate floor ona 6-3 committee vote. In his appeal for mandatory jail terms, Bosma said, ''we have a few counties in Indiana that have become havens for those dealing in drugs.'' The measure would aP.fly to those dealing in most drugs other than marijuana. The btl would not impose stiffer maximum sentences, but would prohibit judges from suspending fines. 


Weather 
Panly sunny today with a high of25 to ~0. In~reasing clo!-ldiness 
at night with a low in the teens. Freezmg ratn or snow likely on 
Friday with highs near 32. 


4 pm --SEMINAR, ''use of micellar sy~tems in analytical chemistry,'' prof. w.l. hinze, wake forest uruv., CONFERENCE RM. RAD. LAB. 
5-6:30 pm --PETITION, right to life congressional drive, N & S DINING HAILS. 
6, 8, 10, 12 pm --FILM, "live and let die," KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS HAIL, $1. 
6:30pm--MEETING, organizational meeting--council for the retarded, UB. AUD. & LOUNGE. 
8 pm --BASKETBAll., nd vs. san francisco, ACC. 
8:15 pm --FACUL1Y RECITAL, anhur lawrence, organist, SACRED HEART CHURCH. 
By john McGrath StaffReporter 
After all the figures are in, Notre Dame is expected to have profited from the Cotton Bowl to the tune of nearly one million dollars. 
Although Fr. Edmund JoyceJ University executive vice presi­dent, points out that the totals ''won't be in for months,'' Spotts 
Information Director RogerValdiserri says that the Univer­. ds fi £ h N 
slty s.tan t<? pro lt rom t e ew Year s classlc by the amount of 
$800,000 or $900,000.
Valdiserri also revealed that Notre Dame's spotts programs grossed over $3.6 million for the past season. The total expen­ditures of all the athletic pro­grams at the University came to about $3.3 million, indicating a net profit of approximately$270 000
' · 
In addition to this profit, both d
Notre Dame an Houston re­ceived a cut of about $1.2 million from Cotton Bowl proceeds. While Houston has to split the money with eight other South­west Conference teams, the Fighting Irish, with no confer­ence affiliations, stands to recieve the full amount minus $300,000 in expenditures that were incurred during the team's 13-d::ty stay in Dallas. 
The approximately $900,000 look elsewht:re for mon<:Y." remaining from Cotton Bowl This steady source of revenue proceeds will be transferred to may be in danger, however, the University's general fund according to the Spotts lnfor~­alon_g with the regular season's tion director, who noted that Tttle profits--a sum totalling close to IXof the 1972 Education Act may $1.2 million. have a serious effect on Notre According to Valdiserri, "The Dame's spotts program. Title IX athletic department is not requires colleges to spend equal permitted to solicit, raise or amounts of money on men's and retain any of the money in a women's spotts. separate fund.:' 
"The big problem is the HE\\1 In a precedent set in 1970, guidelines," Valdiserri said Notre Dame entered post-season adding, "No one is sure whether 
bowl com~etition as a means of basketball and football will be securing tunds for other Univer-included under the rules or not.'' 
sity programs 

--· · Valdiserri revealed that the 
' "The big expense is air University offers 95 sports travel," Valdiserri commented, scholarships. This number trans adding, "This year's chatter lares to about $500,000 for foot rates were double last year's. ball alone. The two other major We used to chatter 727's, but . scholarship spotts are basketball United put all of them into and hockey. passenger service ... so n_ow we "Our lu1 oph has alwayshave to chatter DC-8's which cost P 0~ . Y th 
· h " been to substdize o er spotts
tw1ce as muc . · h h d b th t
Wlt t e money rna e y e mos
When. questioned as towh~ the rofitable programs, but look at exp~nd1~ures v.:ere so h1gh, fencing, for example. We won Valdisern explatned that the the national championship two money covered day-to-day ears in a row without one eXJ?enses as well as transpor-rcholarship athlete," Valdisern tanon costs. r marked 
Valdiserri explained, "In 1970, e ·. the University needed at least He added that golf, baseball, $200,000 to stan a minority tenrus, soccer and women's scholarship fund. Ifwe didn't do basketball are also spotts for it (by entering the bowl game), which Notre Dame does not the foundation would have had to provide scholarships. 
Blizzard strikes 



Midwest stalls after 30 inches 
by Ray McGrath Staff Reporter 

Governor Jim Thompson of Illinois had a good solution to his personal snow problem. He declared 22 notthern Illinois counties disaster areas, and then went south to Florida for a family vacation. Unfortunately, for the rest of those who happen to reside in the Midwest, troubles were less easily solved. The snow, which reached South Bend at around 4 p.m. last Friday and lasted through Sunday evening, measured about 17 inches at Michiana Regional Airpott. ac­cording to National Weather Service forecasters there. 

r-The Observer_ 
Night Editors: john Calcutt Debbie Dahrlintt · Asst. Night Editors: Night Editors and Assistants Copy Readers: Mare Ulicny Tim Joyce Editorial Layout: Rosemary Mills Spons Layout: Paul Mul­laney, Mark Perry, Ray 
O'Bnen 
Typists: LisaDiValerio, Tri­
cia Meehan, Beth Willard 
Early Morning Typist: Ma­
ry McCauley 
Day Editor: john Ferroli 
Ad Layout: Bob Rudy 
Photographer: Dave 
Rumbach 
The Observer !USPS 598 920] is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the stutlents of"Motre Dame anti Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year l$10 per semester] from The Observer. P.O. box 
0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Worse hit was the Chicago area, which picked up 21 ·inches of new snow, and drove Chicago's total ground cover to 30 mches . O'Hare International Airport, the world's busiest airpott, was forced to close,' snarling air traffic around the country. · 
Along with Illinois, the storm, which had claimed at least 65 lives by Wednesday evening, prompted Iowa and Kansas to declare disaster areas. In In­diana, Governor Otis Bowen, M.D., has declared the four county area including. LaPotte, Lake, Potter, and St. Joseph counties, a disaster area, enab­ling state agencies to take pan in snow clearance and restoration of services. Federal aid is being sought by each of the four states. 
Bowen said Tuesday that "the blizzard conditions have posed a severe threat to the safety of the people and livestock and have hampered rescue and recovery operations.'' 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have all been subjected to more than a taste of the problems which South Bend and Chicago have experienced. Be­sides airpott closmgs and delays, returning students who managed to get into the four-state area found train lines, including the South Shore and Clllcago lines and the Amtrak line from Detroit, shut down or running with long delays. Roads were open but slick, and driving conditions were complicated by high winds and blowing snow, thus slowing auto­mobile and bus travel. 
In spite of it all, business has gone on pretty much as usual for most of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. Richard Sullivan, University Registrar, estimated that about 80 percent of the Notre Dame students had registered by the end of Tuesday, and many more had made it back and were settled in academically by yesterday afternoon. 
Sullivan said that, ironically, the Registrar's Office faced "no in­convenience or problems'' as a result ofthe weather. He pointed out that the steady stream of students over the last two day simplified his office's work, and a preliminary class list had already been sent to all instructors. 
Any students who return today or later can repott to the Regis­trar's Office, Room 215 in the Administration Building to pick up their packet, and all students should process drops and adds as usual. 
Elsewhere on campus, the food services and power plant are operating at normal capacity. As a closing note, it was 79 degrees yesterday in Orlando, Florida, which is only a few hours away by air, if you can, get out of . the airpott. 


i'ilfLLASiiED-.1 
15:15 mass and supper ~ ! 1 this friday ~~~ 1 
~ campus
I and every £rtuay-miniStry •

,.._______________,, 
Thursday, January 18, 1979 -page 2 
From Cotton Bowl 

ND earns million dollars 



Thursday, January 18, 1979-page 3
The Observer 
-'. 
~ .. 

~· 
:-.¥~ 
Mary Gaskill, left, and jayne jakubaitis visited the latest edition to the Huddle, the Deli; yesterday. (Photo by Dave Rumbach) 
N<;>tre Dame revises hiring programs 
by Michael Onufrak 

University officials are com­plying with the U.S. Department of Labor's directive to revamp parts of" Notre Dame's Mfir­mative Action hiring program. However, this procedure will not be completed today, the deadline originally set by the government agency. 
Thomas Bull, Notre Dame director of personnel and Mfir­mative Action officer for non-academics, said that the University received the directive due to excessive "informality" within Notre Dame's Affirmative Action files. 
The reason for this informality is the University's dependence on "intuition" rather than strict adherence to the latest govern­ment statistics. 
Bull was quick ro point out that the University is not being directly accused of any wrong­doing. H~ stated that the problem was simply the informal character of Universiy data. This fact was discovered during a "routine" inspection of Affirma­
tive Attion records which was conducted by the Labor Depart­
ment  Dec. 13-15  of  last  
year.  
Bull  said  yesterday  that  

University officials had done the best they could to complete the formalization process by today. Due to Christmas break and the unavailability of administrators, however, this process has not yet , been completed. 
Bull revealed that he expects the University will be granted a 30-day extension of the deadli~e by the Labor Department m coming days. 
According to Bull, Notre Dame has a "good psychology" for the Affirmative Action program. He added that the Department of Labor's review and subsequent criticism of the University's record-keeping will help Notre Dame to formalize and improve those records. 
Notre Dame will continue to be committed to the hiring ofwomen and minorities and the Affirma­rive Action program, Bull noted. 
Saturday, January 27, 8:00PM 
Tickets: $8.50 & $7.50 
NOTRE DAME 
A.C.C. 

·······r STUDENT r·········.~ LOTTERY : 

TONIGHT i:
6:00 PM ~ 11 
aFortune Ballroorn1 
Limit 4 tickets er erson. ' ·Student Union tickets go on sale* FRIDAY ONLY 9:00 am-4:00 m Also available at ACC Gate 10 :00-5:00 
... Suspect 
[continued from page 1) 
apparent attempted break-in at the residence during the semes­ter. Intruders involved in the first break-in, which took place just eight days after the opening of the fall term, succeeded in stealing $1000 worth of stereo equipment owned jointly by the two housemates. 
It was not clear as of yesterday whether or not police could link the battery suspect to the two earlier break-ins. 
According to Lane, who was in the house at the time of the shooting, both he and Camarda were ur,stairs when they heard a "quick ' knock and the simultan­eous ringing of door chimes downstairs. 
Since the two were accustomed ro casual entrances by rhei1 friends, the noise gave no cau~e for alarm, Lane sa1d. Camarda went down the steps to greet the would-be visitors while Lane remained upstairs, prepariug fo1 his scheduled campus radio show ''Night-Train's Nocturnal Night Flight.'' 
Moments later, according to Lane, he heard Camarda say "Hey--where are you going," followed by a "popping sound, like a firecracker.' An ambu· lance was called seconds after Camarda returned to the upstair~ room, clutchin~ his throat, shout­ing, "Rieh--l ve been shot," according to Lane. 
Police arrived on the scene within two minutes after tht shooting, followed by an ambu­lance approximately three min­utes later, according to Lane. More police and a number of reporters and TV cameramen were on the scene within 15 minutes of the shooting. 
with special guest 
FALL 

Holy Week training progratn to be offered for liturgy 
A training program on "Preparing Holy Week" for members of diocesan liturgy commissions, liturgy planning teams and directors of religious education will be offered by the Notre Dame Center for Pastoral Liturgy Jan. 22-26. 
Dealing with theological con­siderations and pastoral prac­tice in the areas of liturgical celebrations for Holy Week, the program will take place at Fauma Retreat House on the Notre Dame campus. 
The following topics will be presented during the session: 
~-''The Shape of Easter in the 
McCafferty appointed Assistant Dean ofLaw 
"Ilw appointment of Fr. Michad 
D. Mc~afkny as an asststant <~ean of . rh~ Notrt:" Dam~ Law Sthool for a two-and-one-half vear period h;~~; l:~·u1 announced ll\ Pruf. Timothy 0' Meara, Uni­\'<'t'>llY provo~~:.. ~.kCafkrty s~c­1n·do, Prof. lTrnand N. Duule who will rerum to full-time tt·aLhing and research. 
(_:urrently a!1 a~~istan~ fnlfessor ut law, McC.afle~tv wtl assume his new post Jan. 15. . The appointment willrermmate at the end of May, 1981. O'Meara noted that McCafferty will con­tinue research in the area of constitutional law during the next three summers and be granted a sabbatical for this purpose in the academic year 1981-82. 
A native of Cincinnati, the Liturgy" and "Easter Faith" by John Gallen, S .J . , director of the Center for Pastoral Liturgy and editor of Euchanstic Litur­gies and Chnstians at Prayer. 
--''The Daily Prayer of Holy Week" by Andrew Ciferni, 0. Praem., liturgical minister of Daylesford Abbey and recent graduate of Notre Dame's doc­toral program in liturgy. 
--''Planning a Reconciliation Liturgy" apd "Holy Week: Overvtew and Planning" by Mary Alice Piil, C.S.J., current­ly engaged in doctoral research on the rhythm and spirit of the Roman Missal of Paul VI. 
32-year-old pnest entered the Holy Cross Novitiate in 1966, three y('ars b~fore receiving his undergraduate degree from Notre Daine. He subsequently completed study for the M. Th. and the; J.D. degr~es ~t Notre Dame and wa..<> ordamed m 1974. From l()l·i to 1976, be was a mal attorney fot the U.S. Equal I:':lp!oy~ent Opporrunity Com­rntsston s Office of General Coun­sel in Washington and then spent a year in pnvate practice with Wtnsron ~Strawn, a Chicago law firm. · 
McCafferty received an LL.M. in constitutional law from Har­vard Law School earlier this year with a thesis on ''The Religion Clauses: Background, Doctrine and Continuing Dilemma." 
--''The Passion Narratives of Matthew and John'' and ''The Resurrection Appearance ofJe­sus" by Eugene LaVerdiere, nationally known lecturer and scholar. 
--"Planning the Music of the Triduum" by Charles Conley, a Notre Dame doctoral candidate in liturgy. • 
--"Celebrating the Liturgies of Holy Thursday'' by Mark Searle, assistant professor of theology at Notre Dame and editor of Assembly, the Cen­ter's journal. 
--"Celebratin~ the Liturgies of Good Friday' by John Allyn Melloh, S.M., director of the Center's on-campus training programs. 
--''Celebrating the Easter Vi­gil" by James Lopresti, S.J., doctoral candidate at Boston University and staff member of the Center. The training program also will include discussion, reflec­tion and daily Eucharist, Morn­ing Praise and Evening Prayer. ·Registration is. limited to 40 persons. To enroll, contact the Notre Dame Center for Pastoral Liturgy at 8801. 
Sr. Marita' s to. organize 
There will be an organiza­tional meeting Sunday, Jan. 21, at 7 p.m. in LaFortune Little Theatre for students interested in tutoring at Sr. Marita's Primary Day School. 
The Observer Thursday, January 18, 1979 -page 4 
Logan Center volunteers to discuss 
new projects 
by Rob!M Moore StaffReporter 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Council for the Retarded will hold their ftrst organizational meeting of the spring semester tonight at 6:30p.m. in the Library Audito­rium. 
Mile Wolohan, . co-chai.rPerson of the council, stresses that newcomers as well as old mem­bers are welcome. "New peoJ?le come every week,'' Mike srud, ''and volunteers are always needed.'' At the meeti~g the council will discuss the different dates for future activities and determine when volunteers will be needed the most. 
As in the past, the council invites all students who wish to donate some of their spare time toward working with me retarded of the South Bend-Mishawaka area. Due to the habitual e:enerosicy of the stm!ents of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's mentally retarded children, teen­agers, adults and their families are able to participate in the various activities sponsored by the council. 
Volunteers are needed for the weekly activities, which include classroom learning, speech, writ­ing, arts & crafts, and music. These daily activities are held at Logan Center, located on the southern edge of the Notre Dame campus. 
For those who would like to get some exercise, the center also provides the opportunity to parti­cipate in swimming and basket­ball. 
Students with 45 minutes to an 
hour to spare between classes are always "VVelcome to assist in theSe learning oriented activitie... Vol­unteers are usually needed be­tween 9 a.m. and 2:30p.m. As in all activities, volunteers have their choice of specific age levels and area of talent with which they would prefer to work. 

On a more social level, the council also recruits volunteers for their weekend recreation pro­gram. These sessions are held at 
·the center every Saturday, from 9-11:30 a.m. Students are paired with a mentally retarded child, teenager, or adult with which he works during the two and a half hour period. The general idea of these weekend sessions is to have a good time. Activities include music, arts & crafts, swimming, and gymnastics. 
Special events are an extra pl~s on Saturdays. The council ts always on the _l?Ok-out for groups of students with a special· talent who would be willirig to give a small performance for weekend participants to watch. Perfor­mances in the past have been given by the Karate Club, a magician, a juggler, and piano players. 
Another weekly event is the bowling session from 3-6 p.m. every Friday afternoon. Dances are scheduled on a monthly basis; the ftrst one for this semester is scheduled for Friday, Jan. 26, 7:30-10 p.m. at Logan Center. 
Other special events planned for the semester are the Ice Capades and the Notre Dame-Colorado College Hockey game, both to be held at the ACC. 
Later in the Spring, the council will host its annual picnic on the lawn in front of Holy Cross, and :m overnight camp-out. 


~-~-------------------~ 
~~--------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, January 18, 1979 -page 5 



Florida helicopter crash kills five 
OPA-LOCKA, FLA. (AP)-A and machinist's mate Jeffrey B. Coast Guard helicopter and a Case of Narrowsburg, N.Y., and smaller, .Private helicopter col­Hawley, Pa. Their ages were lided durmg practice fltghts 200 unavailable. feet above one of the nation's The name of the student pilotbusiest general aviation airports was not released. "He (theyesterday. All five peoele aboard student pilot) was going up and the two aircraft were killed. we were goin~ down, and there 
"It was just an incredible ball of was a mtd-atr collision,'' said fire," said eyewitness Chuck Allen. La.Bow, a pilot for the Goodyear Ott said the student was on "a blimp, which is based at the supervised solo,'' practicingairfield but was not involved in take-offs and landings with an the accident. "I saw the wreck­instructor watching from the age hitting the ground .. .lt was ground.totally engulfed in flames when it 
"As he rose to 200 feet, thehit the ground." 
Coast Guard helico,P,ter des­Coast Guard Lt. Bob Allen flew cended on top of him, ' Ott said. 
over the scene moments after the Allen said the Coast Guard10:17 a.m. EST collision. "It aircraft was teturning to its baselooked like there was nothing at the airport after practicingleft," Allen said. "I couldn't air-sea rescue maneuvers in the even tell what was down there. It area. Ott quoted the instructor,was just a mess.'' 
whom he refused to identify, asTwo piles of debris remained at saying that the Coast Guardmidday. Both were covered with helicopter apparently was practi­fire-fighting foam applied by cing a powerless descent at theairport firemen after the flaming time of the collision. 
aircraft spun to the ground. 
Jack Barker, an Atlanta-basedTwo officers and two enlisted spokesman for the Federal Avia­men were aboard the Coast tion Administration (FAA), saidGuard helicopter, according to the two aircraft ''were not underAllen. Bob Ott, owner of the air traffic control at the time. " Burnside-Ott flying school which ''They were in an area whereoperated the other craft, said one the control tower could seeperson--a male flying student-­them," Barker said, "but thewas aboard the second helicop­area is used mostly for helicopterter. 
training.: ' 
The victims in the Coast Guard helicopter were identified as Lt. He satd a federal investigation
~"<~~~~?·· 

Robert Gregory Ausness, the of the accident was under way.
""'' '· ~ ' 

pilot, a former Army flier from Another FAA spokesman said Miami; Lt. Robert C. Shearer, the Opa-Locka airport and a Jr., the copilot, of Pembroke general aviation field near Van Pines, Fla.; aviation mechanic Nuys, Calif., compete monthly as Robert E. McClain, of St. Louis; the busiest in the nation. 
Carter expresses hope 
...
--··-.....~. 
... ...... 

in Iran; warns Vietnam 
Plumbing repairs near the fieldhouse obstructed student walkways on the first day of class WASHINGTON (AP)-Presi­most depending on 
govern­

yesterday. [Photo by Dave Rumbach] 
dent Caner expressed confidence ment.'' yesterday that the Iranian people And the president said Calif­would be able to restore a stable ornia Gov. Edmund G. "Jerry"government and economy to their
Divorce settletnents tnay include Brown'.i call for a constitutional
strife-torn nation following the convention with the aim of amen­departure of the shah. 
ding the Constitution to prohibitCaner also called on exiled
provision for education costs 
budget deficits was "extremelyIranian religious leader Ayatollah dangerous.''
Khomaini to support the newINDIANAPOUS (AP) --The woman and filed for divorce. However, the measure, which civilian government headed by Caner defended his decision toexpense of putttng your spouse passed 83-13, drew criticism from 
Donaldson noted that the cou­Prime Minister Shapour Bakh­invite former President Richard
through college could count for Rep. Robert]ones, R-Indianpo­
ple had only limited property and tiar. He said the prime minister M. Nixon to a White House state
something in a divorce settle­lis, who complained that it would 
the woman was unable to recover has won the support of the dinner Jan. 29 for Deputy Prime
ment under a bill approved spark needless litigation. 
the cost of her husband's educa­Iranian military "and many of Minister Teng Hsiao-Pin~ ofyesterday in the Indiana House. 
tion. "Whatever happened to 'love, the religious opponents'' follow­China as "entirely propet.' The measure, sponsored by ''This is an attempt to reim­h9nor and obey'? Whatever hap­ing the departure of the Shah of Reps. John W. Donaldson, R­pened to 'until death do us pan?' Iran on Tuesday, ending his
burse that spouse for the limited 
Lebanon, and ) oseph Summers, he asked. 37-year rule of the Persian Gulf
expenses of tuition, lab fees and
D-Indianapolts, would allow nauon.
books," he said. "Has marriage in the state of
courts to award a financial judg­At his first news conference in
Indiana gone from a moral com­
Pro-life group
ment to husbands or wives for five weeks, Caner said that
mitment to a business arrange­
their contributions to the higher despite the overthrow of the
ment?"
education of their now-estranged Cambodian government by Viet­
Auditions .. to petition
spouses. 
Donaldson replied that the namese-backed Cambodian in­The divorce settlement mea­9uestion of financial contribu­surgents, "We do not detect any sure, Donaldson said, was to be held tiOns to education arises only immediate threat to the border of 
prompted by a case he handled after a suit to dissolve the Thailand from the Vietnamese.'' congressmen 
for an Indianapolis dental techni­Auditions for the ND-SMC The­marriage has been filed. But in an apparent warning to 
cian who hadJut her husband atre production of Spnng Awa­Hanoi and Moscow, Vietnam's
One of two child support Notre Dame-Saint Mary's
through dent school. After kening will take place at 2 p.m. chiet ally in the communist 
measures which passes would Right to life will circulate a
graduation, the hushand left the Sunday, Jan. 21 and 7 p.m. world, he said: "We have
allow a judge to order payments pro-life petition to South Bend
Monday, Jan. 22, in O'Laughlin warned both the Vietnamese and 
to be deducted from the paycheck congressmen in the Dining Halls
Saint the Soviets who supply them and 
Auditorium at Mary's. today and tomorrow in commem­
of an unwed father, Rep. Thomas
Callbacks will be on Tuesday, support them against any danger 
Theology 319 
J. Fruechtenicht, R-Fort Wayne, oration of The Week of the
Jan. 23. Audition materials are that they might exhibit toward
noted that the suppon payment Unborn CHild. The petition will
available at the speech and Thailand.''
would go directly to the mother, be presented Monday in Wash­
holds meeting drama department office, room Turning to economic matters,
making payments regular and ington where more than 40
108, in Moreau Hall. The script the Prestdent said the fiscal 1980
reliable. His bill was approved ND-SMC students will partici­
Theology 319-World Religions calls for 42 actors to play adults budget, to be made public Mon­
88-6. pate in the national March for
will be taught this semester in and school children. Written in day, will more than meet his goal Life.
Howard Hall on Sundar. eve­1891 by German playwright The House also passed a of a deficit of less than $30 
nings from 7 p.m. unttl 9:30 Frank Wedekind, the play is a related bill which would allow billion. · A Rosary Vigil will take place 
p.m. A short, but important comic, yet frank, account of the courts to enforce child support He said that any fair analysis of Saturday morning outside the organizational meeting will take sexual awakening of school child­orders on parents living in certain the new budget, which goes into Women's Pavilion Abortion Clin­place tonight at 7 p.m. in ren in a world dominated by strict foreign countries. The measure, effect Oct. 1, would show that it ic at 9 a.m. A Pro-Life March will Howard. The first regular adults. Auditions are open to all which passed 91-1, applies to adequately meets the needs of take place in South Bend at 1 session of the course is schedul­ND-SMC students. For more jurisdictions with a reciprocity defense as well as "meeting the p.m. Sunday. Rides will be ed for Sunday, Jan. 21. information, call 284-4595. anangement with Indiana. legitimate needs ofthose who are available at the main circle. 
--·---R____.... -­
--------~




Editorials___ 
Thursday, January 18, 1979 -page 6 
P. 0. Box Q

A new look 
A campaign

for The Observer 

against handguns 

In September of 1978 ThtLDbserver began planning a change 10 its design. The purpose of the change is to make 
Dear Editor: 

The Observer more readable and to improve the overall When most of us read in the appearance of the paper. The new design is in effect paper that someone has beenbeginning with today's issue. 
shot by a handgun, the newsThe staff is now learning how to implement this new doesn't affect us personally. Fewdesign and how to use our new production techniques of us take the time to realize how effectively. As in any learning process, mistakes are much each tragic death means to probable. Because of this, we have decided to limit the size those who knew and loved the 

of the newspaper until the staff becomes familiar with these victim. And few of us take the 
new techniques. It is also possible that the new design may time to realize how much each 
cause a slowdown in the production process. If this additional incident of handgunOLcurs, the paper may be delivered late. We would violence affects those who are 
appreciate your understandin~ of the difficulties that we may touched by it--the maimed and encounter in the implementation of this new design, but we paralyzed survivors, the horrified feel the new design is a necessary improvement in The friends, the grief-stricken rela­Observer. And we, of course, welcome the comments of our tives. The shooting of Notrereaders. 
Dame student]oe Camarda Moo-

The wisdom to know 
What have been the big issues on campus this year? Certainly nothing that can com­pare with the loss of lives in Vietnam, or the fight for civil rights in the 1960s. No, the big issues have been: a refusal of a proposal for a parietals change; refusal of a proposed student-run record store; a proposed lottery to move sen­tors off campus; and, student rights. Certainly, nothing to compare with the life-and-death issues of ten years ago. 
The surface issues of today, realistically, are just not that important. What is important, and so very disheartening, is the issue behind the issue. Last semester, Student Government members and groups of hall presidents and resident assist-
DOONESBURY . 

ants have all spent great time and effort incongruous with the importance of the issues. Their time and effort have been met with two stone walls. One, put up by the Administration, is to be expected. The other stone wall is the true barrier. It is erected b}' the students. 
The Administration is not about to give up 100 tuitions, bookstore profits, or the good favor of alumni without a fight. Anyone concerned with the surface issues realizes this. It makes the fight more challeng­ing and more rewarding even if more frustration. 
The issue behind the issues is this stone wall erected by the students. We are ND. We are the future managers and. lead­ers of the world. We are here 
by Garry Trudeau 
being prepared for life. Or so we are told. 
The stone wall put up by the students is a much more form­idable barrier than that of the Administration. It is made up of stones that have printed on them: . "I can't, I don't have time;''' 'That's the Administra­tion for you;'' ''Things could be worse. I like my dorm;" "Got a test next week, sorry;''' 'GPA = Success." 
Will this stone wall be our generation of students' contri­bution to the Notre Dame Building Fund? If so, then only future Notre Dame students will suffer. 
If not, however, we will take this wall with us when we leave and put it in front of our front doors. The stones will have printed on them: "I can't, I'm working overtime;" "That's the government for you;'' ''Things could be worse. I like my suburb;'' ''Got to ftx up the boat next week, sorry;" "Mon­ey= Success.'' 
As someone who has run up against the Administration's stone wall, I must ask myself ifI added a stone to the student's wall that says ''An RA should­n't say what he feels. Not because it would hurt his working relationship with his residents, but because his con­tract might be terminated.'' Is that the same type of stone that says, "A businessman should-
n't bring his conscience to work with him. Not because it would · make his job more difficult, but because he might lose his job?'' 
There is a saying, "Grai1t me the courage to change what I can, the serenity to accept what I cannot, and the wisdom to know the difference." Here at Notre Dame, we're heavy on the serenity, light on the cour­age, and frighteningly light on the wisdom. 
]udWet"ksnar 
day night drives home the fact that none of us are immune. Every hour, another American is n.urdered with a handgun, and every year, at least another 300,000 Americans become vic­tioms of handgun violence. And more people are affected person­ally, painfully. The next victim could be you--or someone you love. 
Tragedies like Camarda's shooting, and every other sense­less incident of hand~un violence, will continue to multtply unless we do something about the uncontrolled proliferation of handguns. The 80 percent of the Amencan public that favors handgun control is starting to make itself heard, but it will be a difficult struggle to counter the powerful and influential gun lobby. The participations of young people will make an impor­tant contribution to this effort. A decade ago, our older brothers and sisters opened American's eyes to the horror of Vietnam, and today, we can open America's eyes to the horror of handgun violence. We have even more reason to be concerned today--druing the peak years of the Vietnam War (1966-1972), nearly three times as many Americans were killed here at home by handguns as died in combat in Vietnam, and the violence gets worse every day. Will we continue to watch --in silence? 
America's youth is now joining this growing citizens's movement through a new campaign, "Stu­dents for Handgun Control." We need your help--if we all work together, we can and will win the fight to end ·our domestic slaughter. Won't you join us? 
· Lauren C. Mayer National Coordinator, Students for Handgun Control 
Sense of guilt prompts letter 
Dear Editor: 
On November 11th, the ND­SMC Council for the Retarded, Big Brothers-Big Sisters, and Badin Hall took a.Pproximately 200 mentally handicapped chil­dren, adults, and under­priveleged kids to the Notre Dame-Tennessee Football game. 
It was a sense of guilt which made me write this letter--! did not contribute my ticket. I did not realize the importance of a football game to those mentally handicapped people; not until I saw them cheering whole­heartedly for the team. With pennants and banners in their hands, they sang the Notre Dame fight song. The spirit and enthusiasm that the kids had for the team was overwhelming. 
The ND-SMC Council for the Retarded and the Big Brothers­Big Sisters never meant much to me in the past. Now, I am sorry that I took such an indifferent feeling toward them. They are always looking for the welfare of the mentafly handicapped people. The 

members of these two volunteer organizations do not work for nothing. Enpging in these volunteer servtces, these mem­bers get the opportunities to learn through the experience of being of service to others, to know one another through work­ing cooperatively on programs, and to explore possible future career choices. The work of these organizations is not just to have fun with the mentally retarded peo_{>le. Itmeans more than that. Thetr work can change the life of a retarded from a hopeless one to a most promising and colorful one. I feel that everyone of us should support The Council for the Retarded and the Big Bro­thers--Big Sisters in every way we can. So, let us join them and 
make somebody's life a meaning­ful one. 
RolandTang 


Do students share concern? 
Dear Editor: 
Do fellow students there share our concern at Oregon State University that actions affecting freedom for centuries are taken at Washington,D.C.,and even applauded on some campuses without any review or analysis by independent experts? 
Sponsored "free" trips to mainland China paid by the present regime have seduced students and faculty to return with glowing accounts of life under the communist People's Republic of China. Such prop­aganda seldom if ever gets faced with facts about the more prosperous life in freedom for Chinese people in Taiwan under the Republic of China. 
Numerous older students se­lected after indoctrination by the mainland regime of Mao and successors will arrive soon on our campuses. Will we take their stories at face value, or will we know the issues and facts so that worthwhile dia­logue can ensue for freedom? 
Has your campus lecture series included even one indep­endent expert on China policy? You could select from a number of American professors having real eX_{>ertise on the Far East and qwte able to discuss the consequences for us college students of Pres. Carter's uni­lateral abrogation of the U.S. treaty with the Republic of China. 
Will fellow students demand an appearance on their campuses by an independent American expert on China, or will the campus lectures ignore the issues of the controversy over the proposed treaty­breaking by Carter, the ''great debate of 1979"? 
(Oregon State Univ.) 


of either -institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD--The Observer__ reponed as accurately and as objectively Ediror-in.Chief ............ Tony Pace News Editor ............ DUzne Wilson -----------------_@.S possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray O'Bnen 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a. majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ John Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chns Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb I.anghenry Photo Editor . . . . . . . . . . Doug Chnstian The Obsen•er is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mills pl':'r published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cackley Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Saint Mary's EditoF ...... Ellen Buddy Business Manager ........ john Tucker Mary"s College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rudyreflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 

---------·--.----~

' .. 

• 
··,-\ 

' I
1 • "'. ~ •-• • •~-..-• • • i • ' • o ,. •• •• ·'·'· .. 
The Observer -Sports . Thursday, January 18, 1979 -page 7 
[conh'nueri from page II) 
points as he led the Wildcats to an 81-76 come from-behind victory. . .. 
With 13 rrunutes rema~.rung, the score ~2-49, the Irish tallied nine unanswered points, four by Bruce Flowers and five by Kelly Tripucka to give them their biggest lead of the game, 61-49. Bur this lead dissoved quickly as Anderson began his late game heroics driving past slower Notre Dame defenders for uncontested lay ups. 
Wtth four minutes remaining, 
the Anderson-led Wildcats had 
rallied to trail 70-66. 
They took the lead by scoring 8 
consecutive points. Anderson 
had six of those, including a 
stirring slam dunk after stealing 
the ball from Rich Branning. 
Notre Dame never lead after 
the Kentucky surge as free 
throws by Anderson & Lavon 
Williams teed the game. 
Kentucky coach Joe B. Hall 
utilized a three guard lineup to 
spur the Wildcat comeback. 
Along with Anderson, Kyle Macy 
and Truman Clayton manned the 
guard spots, while Williams and 
Frosh Clarence Tillman played 
upfront. Kentucky had no player 
taller than 6'7" on the court 
during the last 12 minutes of the 
game. 
''We won because we finally 
started getting good shots," Hall 
stated after the game. 
In the loser's lockerroom, Irish 
coach Digger Phelps praised the 
play of Anderson. ''They had 
him playing the high post and 
he's JUSt very quick. He pene· 
trates very well." 
Phelps was also critical of the 
play of his charges. ''There was 
no significant offense on our part 
in the last ten minutes of the 
game. Weplayed poor defense, 
we had too many turnovers and 
we missed a lot of easy shots. 
We just didn't execute." 
Notre Dame 75, Villanova 64 
Notre Dame broke out of their 
annual Christmas jinx ten min­
utes into the Villanova game, as 
Tripucka put on a show that east 
coast basketball fans are not 
likely to forget as long as he is 
around, leading the Irish to a 
75-64 win. 
After blowing a 12-point lead 
to Kentucky, many ND fans 
feared a slump like the four-game 
losing streak Phelps' charges 
suffered in 1976, that included a 
loss in the same Palestra they 
were playing in this day. 
Things looked grim as the Wildcats jumped to a five-point lead behind the muscle work of sophomore Alex Bradley. Tom Sinnkiewicz came offthe bench to help out from the outside. 
Notre Dame chioped away at 
'Barna no. 1, ND up to 7 
The Top 20 teams In The Associated Press' final college football poll, with flrst·place votes In parentheses, season records and total points. 
1. Alabama (38) 1 H ·0 1,317 2. Southern Cal (19) 12+0 1.285 3. Oklahoma (11) 11·Hl 1,251 4. Penn State 11-1-0 1,168 5. Michigan 1Q-2-Q 989 6. Clemson 11-1-0 950 
7. NOTRE DAME ~ 914 8. Nebraska 9-3-0 865 9. Texas 9-3-0 706 
10. Houston 9-3-0 698 11. Arkansas 9-2·1 689 12. Michigan State 8-3-0 525 13. Purdue 9-2-1 493 14. UCLA 8·3·1 487 15. Missouri 8·4-0 434 16. Georgia 9-2·1 312 17. Stanford 8·4·0 306 
18. North Carolina State 9-3-0 214 19. Texas A&M 8-4-0 128 20. Maryland 9-3-0 112 
• • • Kep.tucky 
the Villanova lead, as they began to get their timing down and Tripucka went to work. The sophomore standout took the ball to the hoop and then proceeded to carry two Wildcat players on his back as he recorded three­point plays a la Adrian Dandey. 
Both teams continued to shoot poorly as neither squad could find the range from the outside. The Irish took a 30-22 lead to the locker room at halftime thanks to Tripicka. 
,Offensively Notre Dame showed they were back to full strength as Branning and Jackson helped Tripucka put points on the board while Villanova gradually wore out. Tripucka was named NBC's player of the Game as he garnered a career high 26 points on 10-13 from tht floor and a perfect 6-6 from the foul line. 
Bradley led all Wildcat scorers with 22 points. Brannin~, Jackson and Woolridge all hit 
No\V is the time tomake a great deal on a TI programmable. 


software pakettes with purchase ofaTI-58. 
TI Programmable 58 

A Texas Instruments programmable calculator can make a big difference in the way you work this semester ... and in the years to come. And if you buy a Tl-58 or 59 between January 1 and February 28, 1979, you can take ad,vantage of a special money-saving offer. 
Choose 2 FREE software Specialty Pakettes-a $20 value-when you buy aTl-58. Choose from: 
• 
Electronic Engineering • Mathematics 

• 
Civil Engineering • Statistical Testing 

• 
Fluid Dynamics • Marketing/Sales 

• 
Blackbody Radiation • Production Planning 

• 
Oil/Gas/Energy • Astrology • 3-D Graphics 


The economical Tl-58 key-programmable provides up to 480 program steps or up to 60 data memories. Tl's Specialty Pakettes can help extend its usefulness with ready-to-use programs written by professionals in a wide variety of field~. Each pakette contains step-by­step program listings, applications notes, instructions and sample problems. t Just key-in the program you need and you can put it to work right away. Tl-58, only $125.00*. 
Get a$10.00 rebate when you buy a Tl-59. 
Extra savings on the most advanced handheld pro­grammable calculator ever made. Up to 960 program steps or up to 100 data memories. You can store the 
Texas Instruments technology­hrillging affordable electrollics to your fi11gertips. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCORPORATED 
©t979 Texas lnslrumen/s Incorporated 45626 
double figures with 13, 11 and 10 points, respectively, for the Irish. 
Notre Dame 95 Davidson 63 
The Irish were undoubtedly tired of facing Wildcats as they traveled to Davidson in their third straight battle with a team by that name. But this group proved to be the most tame as they succumbed 95-63, upping ND's record to 7-1. 
Davidson put up a good battle in the beginning with long range jumpers. The Irish expected John Gerdy to have his annual All-American showing but they did not anticipate the outstanding play of sophomore forward Todd Haynes. 
Gerdy and Haynes showed they had no fear of shooting as they launched shots from 20 feet and farther. The Irish got some inside baskets by Orlando Woolridge before Bruce Flowers came off the bench to take contro 
Flowers proved the dominating force at both ends of the court canning early jumpers and clear­ing the boards with machinelike efficiency. Another sub, Stan Wilcox, relieved an injured Bill Hanlik and contributed from the outside and from the charity stripe. 
Flowers finished the game with 15 points and did not miss a shot hitting all 5 field goals and free throws in addition to a game high 7 rebounds. 
Gerdy closed out an outstand­ing career against the Irish taking scoring honors with 26 markers while Haynes pumped in 18 in the losing cause. 
Notre Dame 9I Lafayette 66 
Notre Dame won its first game under the title as "the number one team in the nation" Tuesday 
night,  as  they  wore  down  an  
outmatched Lafayette  team  en  
route to a 91-66 decision.  

The hex caused by the number­one ranking lasted for about the first 16 minutes of the opening period as Lafayette grabbed an early lead that lasted until the 

Tl Programmable 59 
programs you write on handy magnetic cards. Addi­tional ready-to-use programs are available through Tl's Professional Program Exchange (PPX-59). Tl-59, $300.00*. 
The Tl-58 and 59 are versatile, computer-like tools specifically designed for solving complex problems. They can get you into programming quickly and easily -allowing you to concentrate on learning while they find the solutions. Both feature Solid State Software™ libraries with plug-in modules containing up to 5000 steps of prewritten programs. The Master Library is included with each calculator-an instant "tool kit" of 25 programs in key areas. Twelve optional 
libraries are available. 
4P

See the Tl-58 and 59 at your dealer today and take advantage of one of these limited time offers. 
·u.s. suggested reta11 pnce. 
!Specialty Pakeltes do not include plug-in modules or magnetic cards 
0 I've bought my TI·SB. please send me these two tree Tl pakeltes: 
1. 

2. ·--··--·------· 
D I've bought my Tl-59. please send me my $10.00 rebate. 
Texas Instruments w111 fulfill the offer you have selected above when you. (t) return this completed coupon, .Including serial number. (2) along with your completed customer mtormaflon card (packed m box). and (3) a dated copy o/ p1' :/ ot your purchase verifying purchase ot a Tl Pro· grammable 58 or 59 (whichever is applicab•• between January t and February 28. 1979 Items must be postmarked on or before Man:h 7. tf, q, to qualtly lor this special offer. 
Send to: T/·58/59 Special Offer, P.O. Box bJ.luObock, Texas 79408. 
Name_ -·­
Address ____ _ 
City.  
State.·--·  ______ .  ----Zip.  
Calculator Serial Numher  
(from back of calculator)  

Please allow 30 days for delivery. Offer VOid where prohibited by law. Offer good'" U.S only 
4:02 mark, when Hanzlik sunk a jumper form the top of the key Igniting a 16 point unanswered streak by the Irish. 
The Leopards came out in a 3-2 defense that thwarted ND's out­side game and then capitalized on turnovers made by the Irish guards as they pressed to get the ball inside. 
In a recurring theme, Phelps' squad wore down their oppo­nents, enabling them to break the game open before intermission. Lafayette managed to stay close behind the outstanding play of guard Bob Falconiero who tallied 16 points in the ftrst half. Orlando Woolridge countered with a dunking exhibition of his own, whileTripucka and jackson started hitting from cracks in a tired zone. Lafayette trailed 46-33 at halftime des_pite hitting 86 percent from the floor. 
Flowers continued his hot hand sinking 5-7 shots while perfor­ming to perfection on five trips to the chartty stripe. Woolrid8e and Tripucka both finished with 16 points, while jackson totaled 15. Falconiero topped all scorers with 20 points for the Leopards. 
,
• 
--, ,~ .-­
.~­

The Observer Thursday, January 18, 1979 -page 8 
'!. ..... 
• ... leers slump 
[continued from page 9]  lead with  goals  in  the  second  haven't been able to play team  
his second goal of the series.  But  period as the Irish continued to  hockey.  We're in a slump and  
Irish hopes vanished when Mike  lapse.  will change the lines and defense  
Burgraff put the Nodaks up for  They  woke  up  in  the  third  this week against Michigan Tech  
good 5-4 at 15:27.  An empty net  period, though, and Greg Mere­ to try and snap out of it."  
goal in the final minute closed out  dith, snapped the four-game Irish  Notre Dame,  althou~h  tied for  
the scoring.  losing streak with  two  goals in  fourth  with  Wisconsm,  is  still  
Notre Dame 3, Michigan State 2 Michigan State 6, Notre Dame 3 EAST LANSING--Notre Dame  the third period, one on a power play, as Notre Dame, despite playing only period of solid h<;>ekey, came away with a 3-2  only four ·points away from the first place Minnesota. The Irish attempt to pick u~ some ground against the Huskies this Friday~ 
traveled up north to Michigan State in need of a strong series to  Will. Sarurday  night  the  Spartans  and Sarurday, with the faceoff scheduled for 7: 30 both nights at  
regain some of the momentum its  opened · up  with  three  goals  the ACC.  
four  game  losing  streak,  the  within minute in the first _Period  
longest of the season, had taken  to lead 3-0.  Bill Rothstem and  
 
away. "It was important for us to ~o up there and play well," srud Smith, "because after losing four  Steve Schneider closed the gap to 3-2 with consecutive power play goals, but Lynett made it 4-2 MSU heading into the fmal  . .. Dons  
in a row, we needed to get some momentum back.''  stanza. Schneider scored his second of  [continued from page 11)  
Notre Dame got nothing back,  the night in closing the gap to 4-3  aged to score 5.6 points an outing 
although it won  the first  night  with most of the third period to  while playing about half of each  
3-2,  and  came  away  with  a  play, but the Spartans took away  game. 
weekend split and some changes  any  momentum  Notre  Dame  ''Their size will defmitely be a  
facio~  it  the  next  week  in  might have had with a goal one  big  factor,''  emphasizes  Irish  
practlce.  minute later and breezed to a 6-3  Coach Digger Phelps, who hopes  
Dave Poulin gave the Irish a 1-0 first period lead with a power  wm. "We just weren't able to mount  to see all students in attendance at the game at least one half-hour  
Tom Michalek, ND 's leadinf!. scorer, failed to tally a point in the  play goal at 9:58 but Gary Harpell  anything  against  Michi~an  prior to tipoff tonight.  
lnsh 's last two series. [photo by Ron Szot)  and Leo Lynett gave MSU a ~-2  State," noted Smith," and JUSt  ''They  have  really  improved  

since the beginning of the sea­son. They belong in the Top 20. The big guys, Cartwright and 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII..IIIIUIIIIIIII..._._...............IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII..niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItlllllllllll 
CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS 
WHAT ''STICKER PRICES'' REALLY MEAN 
-

HOW TO GET THE BEST BUY ON THE CAR THAT'S BEST FOR YOU. 
Every GM dealer is an independent businessman. No one can tell him what to charge. Not the government, and not the manufacturer. 
But the government can and does require that manu­facturers post a suggested retail price, or "sticker price," on every new car we build. It's a good idea, because it makes it easier for you to compare one car against another. 
Remember, the "sticker price'' is only the suggested price. The actual selling price may be different. That's be­cause the law of supply and demand affects the prices of cars, just as it affects most other prices. And market con­ditions change all the time. 
For example: a very pop­ular model may sell at the suggested price, but frequent­ly cars will sell for less, be­cause the automobile business is highly competitive. 
The difference between the "sticker price" and the wholesale price-that's what the dealer pays us-is called the markup, or dealer's discount. This changes from time to time, but as a general rule the 
markup on small cars is lower 
than on full-size cars. 
The dealer's markup helps to pay his rent, taxes, salaries, utility bills-all that it costs to run a business. And he also has to make a profit, or he can't stay in business. Last year, GM dealers reported about two cents profit on each dollar of sales. As you can see, competition doesn't leave the average dealer a very big margin of profit. 
You can affect the price you pay. Itdepends on the mar­ketplace, for one thing. You may get a bigger break if you .choose a slower-selling model or a car the dealer already has in stock. The latest sales fig­ures published in many news­papers will give you some idea of how cars are selling, al­though the demand for a par­ticular model may be greater or less in your area. 
How much optional equip­ment you order on your car also makes a big difference in its price. Go over the list care­fully, and equip the car just the way you want it. Then it will have most value for you, and you'll enjoy it more. You shouldn't buy what you won't use, although much of the equipment you add to your new car will make it worth more when you decide it's time to trade it in. 
Most buyers trade in a used car when they buy a new one. And the value of used cars varies according to demand as well as to their condition. Performance and appearance count, so it's a good idea to maintain your car and keep it clean. The more you can get for your old car, the less will be your out-of-pocket cost to replace it with a new one: 
But whichever car you choose, the price should never be your only consideration. The dealer's reputation and his service capability are also important 
Our interest is in helping both you and-the dealer to get a fair deal. We want you to be satisfied with your car. That's good for you, good for the dealer, and good for us. 
This advertisement is part of our continuing effort to give customers useful infonnation about their cars and trucks and the company that builds them. 
General Motors 
People building transportation to serve people 
,_,,,,_,_,___________ux-••-••-~~-••·-----••--••,.•••••--~ 
Bryant, complement each other really well." 
While the Irish will have their hands full trying to stop the big double-pivot, they'll .still have other worries tonight. Forward Doug ;ernison, not too small himsel at 6-6, is adding 15 points and eight rebounds to the Dons' arsenal each contest.· 
Even their guards aren't lacking in size. Billy Reid and Ken McAlister, both 6-5, handle the ball for San Francisco in addition to pouring in nine and eight points per game, respectively. 
In addition to handling the Dons' size tongiht, Pehlps' squad will also be expected to live up to its current number-one national billing, something which the eighth-year coach doesn't mind all that much. 
"We've got to grow from this experience," enthused Phelps, whose team won't have much time to rest before Sarurday's regionally-televised contest with the always-tough South Carolina Gamecocks. 
"We're faced with the sme type of situation Duke and Michigan State were faced with. We're just going to have to ~row from it. We can't keep av01ding it for­ever." 
Just like the Irish can't avoid two seven-footers tonight. 
Lawrence holds recital 
Arthur Lawrence, associate pro­fessor of music at Saint Mary's, will open the music depanmen_t' s second semester concert senes with a faculty recital tonight at 
8:15 p.m. in Notre Dame's Sac­red Heart Church. The concert will be pre ~nted in cooperation 
with  the  otre  Dame  music  
departmen1  
Organ m;,.sterworks  by  Bach,  

Daquin, Bohm, Dupre and Franck will be played on the new Holtkamp pipe organ which was installed in Sacred Heart last year. 
Lawrence is currently acting chairman of the music depart­ment and has been a member of the faculty since 1969. Organist­choirmaster for Saint Paul's Epis­copal Church in La Porte, he also serves as editor ofThe Diapason, the international journal for or­ganists and harpstchordists. 
......_ 
I : 
-----;----­
... 

The Observer -Sports Thursday, January 18, 1979 -15e 9 
by Brian Bef{lane Sports Wnter 
The holiday blues that seem to have plagued the Notre Dame basketball team the past few years left the Irish on the hardcourt and have hit the Irish on the ice--and hit them hard. 
When exams were all over and 
the Notre Dame hockey team left 
for Boston just before Christmas, 
it was sitting pretty in second 
place in the WCHA with a 9-4-1 
record while sporting an overall 
mark of 10-4-1. But that trip east 
was the start of all the recent 
Irish woes. 
Notre Dame dropped its two games to Boston College and Harvard and Started off the second half of the season by being swept by North Dakota at home. Add a split against WCHA cellar dweller Michigan State last weekend and now look for the Irish in the standings--look down two spaces, 
that is, tied for fourth. 
''We are in the midst of a slumP., there's no question about that, ' said Irish coach Lefty Smith. "I really wish I could put my finger on the exact problem. We're just not playin~ together as a team like we were m the first half of the year. Our main concern right now is to climb back out, and we'll be making some changes to do that." 
Those changes will consist in a rearrangement of the first three lines as well as all three defen­sive pairings. The latter was caused in part by the loss of sophomore Don Lucia for the rest of the year to academic ineligibi lity. All these changes will be done to try and get the Irish back to playing like they were during the first half of the season, es~ecially in the Wisconsin senes. 
Boston College 10, Notre Dame 5 Harvard9, Notre Dame 5 
h J-t.ll• 

BOSTON--With exams finished, the main obstacle the Irish faced was getting their minds back on hockey. Notre Dame never seemed to accomplish that, as a depleted team lost the first game to Boston College 10-5. 
1oe Mullen scored the first goal of the night from an almost impossible angle just 53 seconds into the game. That seemed to set the stage for the rest of the way, espectally for goalie Dave Laurion, who turned in his first poor J?Crformance of the year in this ntghtmare. 
:ND was without first line plarer Greg Meredith, forward Bil Rothstein and defenseman Jeff Brownschilde to begin with. Meredith and Brownschtdle were over in Europe playing with the Canadian and United States na­tional teams while Rothstein used the holidays to recover from minor surgery. They were sorely missed. 
But Notre Dame was forced to switch its lines around even more when it lost Kevin Humphreys for the rest of the weekend during the first period to an ankle injury and John Cox was thrown out for fighting in the second and had to sit out the next night. To add to the Irish problems, Scott Cameron was taken to the hos­pital for throat x-rays after being hit in the ftrst period. He was the only of the Irish casualties able to return the next night.
Jeff Perry gave the Irish a shortlived lead when he made the score 5-4 just into the second period, but that was all for the Irish offense. BC scored six 
Irish icers slump during break, drop to fourth place in standings 
straight the rest of the way ,to first game and lost badly 9-4. glide to a 10-5 trouncin~. The Irish were still in the game About the only thing that heading into the final perioo, as 
changed the next night against they trailed 4-3. But the Sious Harvard was the site of the game, blew them out with four straight, this time at Boston University's two on power plays by Bill Walter Brown Arena. Mter a Himmelright, to mount an invin­scoreless first period, both teams cible 8-3 lead. Dave Poulin scored four times in the second provided the only highlight for period, but Harvard put it away Notre Dame with his second hat m the third. trick of the year, but it was in 
Jeff Logan notched his first vain. The Sioux poured a pound career hat trick with a goal at 5:16 of salt into the wound with a of the third that tied it for the last shorthanded goal on a breakaway time 5-5. The Crimson scored with just three seconds remain­four in the final 15 minutes, with ing to cap anight each Irish skater Mike Watson getting a hat trick would like to forget. with a minute remaining, to ''We played 100 percent better cushion its win. Saturday night,'' said Smith, 
''but we just could not cash in on 
North Dakota 9, Notre Dame 4 the opportunities--and we had 
North Dakota 6, Notre Dame 4 them. North Dakota outplayed us 
in every way Friday, but the next 
night we knew what we were up 
The Irish faced "their toughtest against and played better." opponent of the seasrn," accor­It was not good enough the next dmg to Smith, when the Fighting night, though, because leading Sioux of North Dakota flew into 2-0 and 3-2 at times, the Irish South Bend for a weekend series couldn't hold on. Down 4-3 with at the ACC. Unfortunately for under six minutes to play, Jeff Notre Dame, it saved its worst Perry tied it for Notre Dame with performance of the year for the 
[continued on page 8] 

~ 
I 
I I 
"You're probably worulering how I got where I am today." 
3'~ 
For the real beer lover. 
~ 
...-............ . 



The Observer -Sports Thursday, January 18, 1979 -page 10 

,.I 
t 
I 
Jubilant Irish offer comments 
lnsh split end Kris Haines: ''There was a point the players. l's just another thing that's provenr6 in the game when I was starting to feel a little sorry me personally that this is the greatest University in for myself. My leg was hurting some and I've got a the world, and the greatest bunch Qfguys. I'm just terrible cold, and felt like giving up. Then, all of a gl~I came and proud to be ass~a~ed with them. sudden, I saw these guys around me weren't giving 
. I sh strong safety Steve Cichy: 7(on touchdown 
up. I realized I couldn't be selfish. They're a great 
ru )"I couldn't believe I got so wide open. I had abunch of guys. 
player holding on to each ankle, but I broke both of 
(About the final touchdown pass) "It couldn't the tackles. have been a more perfect pass. It looked low and ''We felt that if we could get them deep and outside, but that's where 1t was supposed to be. force them to punt against the wind, we could win. It's my job to catch it. This is the greatest feeling As it turned out, that's just what happened." in the world. It's a team effort. There are no Insh coach Dan Devine: "We approached this individuals on this team. It's a team effort all the game differently as far as getting psyched up. It w~y." was a different type ofgame than last year, but the 
end result was the same. Out practices weren't as
Insh center Dave Huffman: "We were deter­
intense earlier. There was more free time. We just mined to show them (Houston) that we weren't just didn't approach it as intensely.
gonna quit. We knew that we could score a "I can't say that last year (win over Texas) wascouple more times. We knew it probably wasn't any better than this year. I really can't. Maybegoing to be enough. But we weren't going to stop. 
there's no way you can say this can compare toWe were going to show them that we had alot of winning the national championship. But right nowclass, too. Alot of teams in this type of situations 
I can.

would start up with the personal fouls. We tty to (About Montana) ''I'm kind ofa one-quarterbackplay above that. 
guy, and always have been. Joe stays 10 until I'm 
(About the end of the game) ''I had looked at the absolutely positive it's time to make a move. scoreboard so long, and we were behind for so (About the game) "We pulled out just about long. And then they shut it off after we got a point anything that could have been pulled out of that ahead. I only got to glimpse it for a second. It'll turf. Our straws had been starting to run out a take a while to sink in. But I'm just sort of stunned little. We needed that big play. I knew we'd find a right now that we were able to do what we did. It's way to win. I was just hoping we'd hurry up and a great tribute to the team, to the coaches and to find it." 
• • . Irish come back 
him on the only other PAT than it was a year ago," said
[cfJntinued from page 12) 

attempt earlier. Devine. "I'm really proud of the 
was incomJ?lete, but Montana's "I just tried to put all the way this team has come back 
quickness 10 releasing stopped screaming, yelling and jumping time and time again throughout
the clock with two seconds around out ofmy mind. You just the year.''
remaining and gave the Irish one 
think of the basics, keep your ''I'11 remember this for the rest 
last chance. head down and kick it. I didn't 
of my life," insisted Haines. 

''He asked me if I could beat have time to think of being 
"This team never quits. When

him again,'' said Haines about nervous.'' 
we blocked the punt we knew we

his discussion with Montana in 1HE VICTORY marked the 
could come back.

the ensuin~ huddle. "I said, second straight year the Irish 
"Some people thought it was

'Joe, I can. He smiled and said, posted a victory in the Cotton 
over with 35 seconds to go, but

'Let's do it.' And we did it.'' Bowl. Last year the boys from 
then we remembered how USC

Montana, calling for the same South Bend trounced then top­
beat us in the last 46 seconds.

play twice in a row, then pro­
ranked Texas, 38-10, to capture 
You can't count us out."

ceeded to hit Haines with the 
the national championship. 
ATTHE OUTSET of the game
tying touchdown pass. 

There wasn't as much at stake it appeared that Houston, if
Unis, a Dallas native, came on 
this year, however. Houston anyone, would be the team that
to kick the extra point. An illegal 
carried a 9-2 record and a number might be counted out. Notre
procedure penalty nullified the 
nine national ranking into the Dame scored two touchdowns in
winning po10t, so Unis had to do 
contest, while the Irish has been a first quarter stretch of two
it all over. He did, and the 
ranked lOth due to an 8-3 slate. minutes and 18 seconds, as
miracle was history. ''Every kicker fantasizes about That didn't detract any from Mo111:ana" scarripered for three winning games like this,'' the Irish win, however. yards and freshman fullback Pete enthused Unis, who watched a "I can't say that rhe feeling Buchanan bolted home from one muffed snap from center roll by was much different in this win yard out. Both conversions, one kick attempt and one pass attempt, failed, as the Irish were in good shape early with a 12-0 lead. Davis, however, out of the veer offense innovated by Yeoman, led the Coogs to their first touchdown, a 15-yard strike to Willis Adams, just seconds before the conclusion of the initial stanza. Randy Love's one-yard dive 'over right tackle, and Kenny Hatfield's 21-yard and 34-yard field goals highlighted a Cou­gar-dominated second quarter, after which Notre Dame found , itself ~!ailing, 20-12. With Irish safety and punter Joe Restic injured,-sophomore Dick Boushka was forced to handle kicking situations. A 32-yard punt from deep in Irish territory and another effort that was blockf·d by Cougar line­backer Bobby HarrisQn put Hous­ton in excellent field position in the third quarwr. Davis had to engineer drives of only 38 and 19 yards, respectively, both capped off by quarterback keepers to the right side. By the end of the third quarter Houston supporters had begun to celebrate. After all, their Cou­gars owned a 34-12 lead, and the Irish couldn't do anything right. Little did they know, howev­er, that it wasn't time for the Irish to start yet. 

1. Attempt 
6. Barbeeue item 
II. Buddy 
12. Dwell 
13. llolated 
14. R-cret 
16. Eyepart 
11. Particle 
17. 
Greek letter 

18. 
Commonplace 


20. 
Halt 

21. 
Payable 

22. 
Implant ftnnly 


24. Aoian coun­try 
27. It cauaeo a disturbance 
30. 
Wrath 

31. 
Di&IT&ee 


33. 
Vut age 

34. 
Water ftask 


36. Push gently 
38. 
Information 

39. 
Wine cask 

40. 
Onto 


42. Table exten­sion: 2 wdo. 
47. Accelerate (a 
motor ~-;· 't quickly 
49. Sea eqle 
60. 
Gooh! 

61. 
Abhor 

62. 
Buildinar lut 


68. Do wronar 
64. Watched 
66. Origin, as of an idea 
DOWN 
1. Slender 
2. Weary (of) 
a. K-ll:reaav 
4. Nextto 
6. 
Thin piece .. lndipnt 

7. 
Meantime 

8. 
P.M. pther­inar 

9. 
-up, primped 

10. 
Self: comb. form 

11. 
Sprinar owift­


ly 
19. Bearinn1nar 
20. Habitual 
drunkard 23. Unfold: 2wda. 

UN_. twitch 
c
26. llan'aname 
21. -aDd toueh 
R
:roar toea: Z wdL 
0
27. Wu a eandi­
date 
s
Zll. Canine Zll. Compeaopoint 
s
32. Protrreu 
36. Yellowiah­
V/
brown 
37. Exeept that 
0
39. 
Carried 

40. 
Encouraare 


R
41. Equal 
43. Fixed charare 
D
44. Lake cr city 
46. Openinar bet 
s
46. Nouriah 
46. That woman 


The Observer -Sports Thursday, January 18, 1979-page 11 
Cagers dow-n Warriors, 65-60, claim number one poll position 

Gil Salinas drives on Marquette's Dean Marquardt tn Saturday's win at MiJUKZukee. 
Irish host Dons 
by Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief 

MILWAUKEE--Neither snow, nor wind, nor the Marquette basketball team could keep the Fighting Irish from the top spot in both polls when they were given a second crack at it. Led by a sparkling second half perfor­mance by Tracy Jackson, Notre Dame overcame a seven-point deficit to defeat the Warriors in Milwaukee Arena, 65-60. 
The Irish beat the blizzard to Milwaukee, but for a while it looked as though they might not b<:at the Warriors. 
When) acksonwas inserted into the lineup with 15:19 remaining in the game, the Warriors led 37-34. Baskets by Bernard Toone and Sam Worthern stretched the lead to 41-34 and the sparsely populated arena erupted. But then the sophomore from Silver Springs, Marylan<_l showed the Milwaukee fans how the game
1 should be played. First, he htt a running one­bander from the lane. Then, after another Worthen basket, Jackson swished a short jump :.hot and set up Stan Wilcox for an easy basket. Two more Jackson jump shots and a three­point play by Bruce Flowers gave 
the Irish the lead 47-45. 
The two teams traded baskets and the lead for the next three minutes, until Jackson dunked the· rebound of a Flowers shot for a 54-53 lead. Notre Dame was never to relinquish that lead. In the span of rune minutes, Jack­son had scored 13 points. Four free throws by Kell1"' Tripucka, three by Flowers, an two by Bill Laimbeer gave the Irish an insurmountable 63-60. Bill Han­zlik made two more free throws to close out the scoring at 63-60. 
Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps pointed to the free throWl) which Notre Dame made at the end of the game as a key. "We made the foul shots when it counted,'' he said. 
Another crucial factor was Mar­quette's loss of Bernard Toone with five fouls. The 6-9 senior captain fouled out with 4:04 remaining in the contest. Toone was the high scorer for the Warriors with 18 points, and they missed his outisde shooting down the stretch. After the game Toone said, "Fouling out is just one of those things that can happen. No one likes to leave a close game, but you can't let up just because you ate in foul trouble." 
) ackson was his every modest self after the conquest, although he had hit an incredible nine of ten shots from the floor. ' 'There was no game plan to get the ball 'to me, tt just worked out that way. I had been having some troubles with myJ'ump shot but the coaches worke with me and I think we straightened everything out." 
Tripucka was held to ten points, largely because he was held to only four shots from the field, of which he connected on two, and four free throws, all of which were successful. "They were sagging on me inside, so the only way to get me the ball was to fore~ it inside. There was no need to do that with Tracy shooting so well from the out­side: · · We have a really deep team," he added, "so any one player can come through when we need it. Tonight it was Tracy." 
Marquette coach Hank Ray­moods said, "I am very proud of my team, they played well. This may have been our best game of the season. Jackson was very hot, we just couldn't stop him.' 
1be wm gave the Irish a 3-1 record over the semester break, a period which has been consis­tently the most difficult for them over the past few seasons. 
During the holidays 
Kentucky proves ND heatable 
by Tony Pace normal to give everyone equal connected on only 29 percent of andRay 0 'Brien time on the court," said Phelps. its field goal attempts. Forward Sports Editor ''We started to play sound Nick Leasure, the leading SFC defense when we widened the scorer, managed to hit double margin to 17 points. When they figures (15), but still hit only 6 of 
Notre Dame 96 St. Francis 43 
cut the lead to nine, they proved 19 floor attempts.
In a tuneup for Notre Dame's that they are a sound ball club." 
nationally-televised encounter What also aided the Irish in the Kentucky 81 Notre Dame 76 with Kentucky, the Irish had little contest was the irratic shooting of 
LOUISVILLE-On December 30,
trouble disposing of St. Francis St. Francis. The Red Flash 
1976 the Notre Dame basketball
(Pa.) College, December 27 at the 
team took to the floor at Freedom 
Athletic and Convocation Center, 
Hall in Louisville with a shot at
with a 96-43 victory. A capacity crowd of 11,345 · the number one rankin~. Pre­number one in the nation, only
by Paul Mullaney 

witnessed the contest, as more viously top-ranked Michigan had for the Irish to hand the Dons a
Assistant Sports Editor 
AP top 20
than 200 interested patrons were been defeated, so number two 93-82 defeat in the ND regular­
turned away from buying the Notre Dame was in line for the It's not too often that two season finale. 
The Top 20 teams In the Associated
5,000-plus ttckets that were left top spot. The Irish never got to seven-foot ball players step on This year the senior from Elk
Press' college basketball poll, withfor sale due to the absence of the first-place votes In parentheses, season the top, however, as the powerful the same court at the same time, Grove, California, has scored 
student body. records and total points. Wildcats humbled the Irish let alone the same starting 25.6 points a contest for the Mter a sluggish first half, 102-78. lineup. Dons, who have won 13 of their Phelps' quintet exploded to out­1. NOTRE DAME l46j 9-1 1,1116 On December 30, 1978 the Nonetheless, that will be the 16 contests thus far. Couple that
2. North Carolina (~) 2-2 1,010
score the Red Flash, 57-17, in the 3. UCLA 11-2 978 Notre Dame basketball team case this evening when San with 49 blocked shots, 35 assists, second stanza. Orlando 4. Illinois (5) 15-1 949 faced a similar siruation. Duke Francisco's Dons invade the Ath­a 60 percent field goal accuracy Woolridge, voted the most valu­5. Indiana State (2) 14-{) 857 had fallen from its top-ranked letic and Convocation Center to and a rebound average of 16.8 able Irish eager in the contest, 6. Michigan State 9-3 783 perch, and the Irish were in line confront the top-ranked Irish per game, and Bill Laimbeer and 
7. Louisville 12-3 689
led the onslaught with 18 points 8. Duke 10-3 688 for the top of the heap. But again beginning at 8 p.m. Bruce Flowers have something to on 8-of-10 shooting from the 9. Louisiana State 12-3 569 the Wildcats spoiled the Irish bid Consensus pre-season All­worry about in tonight's game, 
10. Georgetown 12-2 453 for number one. American Bill Cartwright, at 7-1, which can be heard on WSND,floor. 
11. Arkansas 1o-2 411
Woolridge wasn't the only While the Irish were stopped and freshman cohortWallaceBry­AM 640, starting at 7:55.
12. Syracuse 12-2 402
bright spot for the Green-and­13. Marquette 11-2 398 by a well-balanced team in 1976, ant, at 7-0, provide a front court Bryant, who hails from just Gold, however. Bruce Flowers 14. North Carolina State 11-4 353 it was a one-man show that did combination at which most down the Toll Road in Gary, is and Kelly Tripucka netted 16 and 15. Texas A&M 13-3 335 them in this season. Freshman schools would foam at the mouth. still developing, and isn't quite 15 points, respectively,_ in an 16. Ohio State 9-4 272 Dwight Anderson ran around, Notre Dame srudents remember yet into the form that first-year
17. Temple 12-1 191
Irish attack which saw all 11 over, and through a porous Notre Cartwri~ht from two years ago, Coach Dan Belluomini is hoping
18. Alabama 10-4 189 
19. Maryland 11-4 90 Dame defense for 17 second half when his USF team entered the for. Nevertheless, he has man-
ca~ers score. 
'We substituted more than 20. Kansas 9-4 86 · [continued on page 7] ACC undefeated and ranked 
fconlinued on page 8] 

Classifieds 
All classified ads must r. received br S00 p.m.• two CllttS prior to the issue in whldlllll ali Is run. Till 0~ offlc.e will aa;ept classified$ Monday nnu~ Friday. 10:0!J a.m. to 5:00 p m. All c\a~\\ildS musttle pq-paid. esther h. ill :.011 or lt'tftl!JIIh ltle IIIII!. 

KEITH NEIL'S TRAINING STABLE 
Lost & Found Tickets IWI•••• ricllng ...._ • ~ 
DIIIIIIIIHiraton/E........ 2 GA and 2 STUDENT TIX FOR SAIC ......
.....,.n_._._•..._
Lost: pair of new blue suede ski gloves FRANCISCO GAME. CALL •• some-where between D-2 and Sorln. Call 8518. Need one student or GA ticket far UCLA Dt=':.~ .....
...

call7409 
Addltlon11 lnfor!TIItlon -C1ll Jo Hill • Need Maryland B-Ball tlx. Any number. 6113-4467
For Rent 
Tim 288-2n3. 
Thugs and Henchmen-
Best of luck for second semester. How M1tu111 students, share a spacious, long will the new frosh last? furnished home In a very nice neighbor­David
Personals 
hood near campus. $130 per month FREE: Adorable 7 week old puppies. Includes everything. Call 289-0103, Karen Call 272-2520 evenings. nights. · You will have to learn to control 
yourself at AIRPORTS. Good luck with Gat In Shapal Rock wortour Sit 10 1m Two rooms together. $45.00 near rides. second semester. Rockne gymnastic room sponsored by the 233-1329 David Crew 
otices 
Attention all Logan volunteers and Inter­ested students! The ND-SMC Council for the Retarded Is having It's organizational meeting Thursday night, Jan. 18th, at 6:30p.m. In the ND Library Auditorium. Volunteers are needed'" recreational and school activities during the week and on weekends. Whatever your Interest, be It 
basketball, swimming, music, art, or one of many others, you can help a mentally handicapped child develop skill 
In that area. New and old volunteers welcome! Questions call Mike 1371 or Sue 4-1-4832 
The first Saturday rec Is this Saturday, Jan 20th, from 9:ll0-11:30 a.m. at Logan Center, help a mentally handicapped child and join In on the fun, questions call Mike or Sue. 
Help a mentally handicapped child or adult bowl this Friday, Jan 19th from 3:15 -6:00 p.m. Rides leave the ND Library circle at 3:15 p.m. questions call Mike 1371 or Sue 4-1-4832 
Experienced typist will do all types of typing. Call 272-1401. 
"Correction to Student Directory for Village Inn Pizza on U.S. 31 North at Darden Road -phone Number 272-()945" 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Bedford 288-2107 Hours: 8am to 5 pm 

Thursday, January 18, 1979-page 12
Snorts 
Irish come back to edge Cougars 
•

lfl 43rd Cotton Bo-wl Classic 
by Paul Mullaney 
wanted to kick the ball anyway." Assistant Sports Editor "I dido' t have second thoughts 
about going for it,'' said Davis, -DALLAS --The Cotton Bowl who grew up just a stone's throw Committee called it ''the greatest from the Cotton Bowl. ''I felt like Dallas Classic ever played, with the law of averages just caught yet the worst playing conditions up with us." ever." "I don't want to second quess 
Houston Coach Bill Yeoman their coach,'' commented Devine said it was "the greatest boon undefeated in three straight post-' ever for indoor football. " season affairs since arriving at 
Notre Dame mentor Dan Notre Dame. "It was no sur­Devine labeled it "the greatest of prise. It was a good call. " all the comebacks I've been For the Irish, it turned out to be associated with in coaching.'' a great call. . , 
The greatest it may have been. MONTANA STARTED the
which were yet to happen.
But, nonetheless, it was the last-ditch Irish effort by running
After his team had forced another 
Comeback Kid and his Cardiac for 11 yards agd then threw to
Wyatt punt, Montana shifted
Companions putting together the Haines for a gain of 10. With the 
into overdrive when the Irish
type of comeback that 1s becom­clock stopped at six seconds, and
regained possession at their own
ing commonplace with Notre Notre Dame first-and-goal at the
39-yard line with 5:40 remaining
Dame, as the Irish shocked Cougar eight, Houston called 
on the clock.
Houston, 35-34, to capture the time out to regroup defensively. 
On three straight plays the
43rd and coldest Cotton Bowl On the next play Montana, the
senior signal-caller connected
Classic on January 1. same Montana who had earlier
with freshman tight end Dean
Quarterback Joe Montana, thrown four interceptions,
Masztak, fullback Jerome
who missed most of the third wasted little time getting rid of
Heavens and flanker Pete Holo­
quarter because of below-normal the ball, tossing it quickly to the
han for respective gains of 17, 30
body temperature, captained an right corner of the endzone and in
and 11 (on pass interference)
Irish rescue mission which saw the direction of Haines. The pass 
yards. Two plays later Montanathe Gold-and-Green put 23 points 
[continued on page 10]

swept left end for two yards and aon the board in the final seven touchdown.Two points were onceminutes and 37 seconds, erasing again a must for the Irish, who
a 34-12 Cougar lead in the In not-so-sunny Texas 
brought the score to 34-28 with a process. 
Montana-to-Haines completion. 
The game-winner, as ifwritten The once dumbfounded Notre 

Frigid conditions hamper game 
by the most prolific of fiction Dame legions had reason to cheerwriters, came with no time all of a sudden. Their Irish were

showing on the clock, as split end by Paul Mullaney as 75,000 homes were affected in they either listened to the game 
rolling, or so it seemed, until all
Kris Haines, both feet barely in Asszstant Sports Editor one way or another, as the frigid on radio or drove to homes or 
momentum seemed gone with
bounds, engulfed an eight-yard storm coated power lines and hotels to catch the miraculous
2:05left in the game. It was then DALLAS --Things looked pretty 
Montana touchdown aerial to trees with tons of ice over the finish on television.
when Montana fumbled after a
knot the score at 34-34. Joe Unis' good to Dan Devine and his Notre weekend, knocking out telephone Not all of the patrons left for conversion kick gave the Irish a 16-yard run to the Houston 20 Dame football team when they service in older parts of town, fear of frostbite, however. Those miraculous triumph and a num­and Cougar Tommy Ebner arrived here on December 21 to and felling trees throughout the who remained in the Ice Bowl let 
ber seven ranking the season's recovered. "nJe luck of the Irish prepare for the January 1 Cotton metropolitan area. their voices be heard. Among 
final poll. had run out, right? Bowl clash with Houston. Apartment complexes and nur­them was Notre Dame President WHAT HAPPENED in the last Never1 The temperature read 65 de­sing homes were evacuated, as Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, who 
7:37 was quite mind-boggling to THE IRISH DEFENSEstiffened, grees, and the South Bend winter local hotels were filled rapidly. directed the Irish band in the was 1,000 miles away.
those super-fans who braved the and with a tourth-and-one from Electrical transformers erupted Notre Dame Victory March ungodly Texas weather. For the Cougar 29 and 3 5 seconds But, as if somebody suddenly at times during the storm, hght­outside the victor's locker room starters, the tide turned when left, Yeoman overruled a possible pulled the plug on the Green ihg the sky with green, red and after the game. freshman reserve fullback Tony punt to go for the first down that Machine, the conditions took a blue flao;h~s. "I'll te!l you, it was COLD," Belden blocked aJay Wyatt punt would seal. a win for the South­drastic change for the worse. All visitors to the· supposed said Bob Golic, who missed the and classmate Steve Cichy picked west Cmlference champions. And playing football in South sunny climate of Dallas were second half of the ~arne after it up in a crowd and rambled 33 Houston quarterback Danny Bend all of a sudden didn't somewhat shocked by the condi­twistins his knee. ' I've never yards for an Irish score. Notre Davis brushed running back seem like that bad of an idea. tions, including Notre Dame's played m anything as cold as that 
Dame, electing to so for two, Emmett King on the handoff at An ice storm,. Dallas' worst in marchin~ band, which was left before. And it got a lot colder narrowed the defictt to 34-20 left tackle, and King was stood 30 years, began on Saturday without mstruments at the Cotton standing on the sidelines." when Montana connected with up by yet another Irish freshman, evening, December 30, about the Bowl Parade because of a frozen Huffman, when asked of the tailback Vagas Ferguson in the defensive right end joe Gramke. same tune as Kentucky's basket­air hose in its equipment truck. It whereabouts of his father in the endzone. With senior tackle Mike Calhoun ball team froze the Irish from was understandable if some of lockerroom after the game, 
"That seemed to be the turn­helping by hitting low, King was topping the collegiate cage polls. the band members didn't feel too quipped, "I don't know. Maybe ing point of the game," offered stoppeo with no gain, and the And things didn't get any better depressed from not being able to he's frozen in his seat." Cichy afterwards. "W~ got the Irish took over with 28 ticks of the by Monday afternoon's kickoff. participate in the frigid festiv­If it were anybody but the witty momentum back, and everything clock left, just 29 yards short of More than 28,000 homes in ities.· · Huffman making the. comment, it started clicking after that.' pay dirt. Dallas Couno/ were without Even Irish center Dave Huff­might have been adviseable to 
"Clicking" isn't exactly the "It was my decision," Yeoman power, including the dwelling of man, a Dallas native who has check the stands. 
word to describe the events said. "I don't think ~yone Mayor Robert Folsom. As many braved three past South Bend winters, couldn't handle Mother Nature's southern hospitality. Notre Dame 12 0 D 23-35 
Houston 7 13 14 8-34
''I'm goin' down farther south," 

he mused after his team's 35-34 ND--Montana 3 run (kick failed).thrilling win. ••It better be 1'10--Buchanan 1 run (pass failed). warmer down there, because I'm Hou-Adams 15 pass from Davis (Hatfield 
kick).
not staying up this far north." 
Hou--Love 1 run (Hatfield kick).

The · gutsy northwest wind Hou-·FG Hatfield 21. didn't help matters, either. The Hou-FG Hatfield 34. 
Hou-Davls 2 run (Hatfield kick).
game time temperature of 20 
Hou--Davis 5 run (Hatfield kick).
degrees was cold enough, but as 

ND-·Cichy 33 blocked punt returnthe wind gained momentum (Ferguson pass from Montana).throughout the afternoon, the ND--Montana 2 run (Haines pass from 
chill factor plummeted to minus Montana). 
NO--Haines B pass from Montana (Unis
19 degrees by the second half. 

kick).
Onlv 32,500 diehards of the Atten.-·32,500. 72,000 ticket purchasers (sell­N. Dame Hous. out) were accounted for in a First downs 13 16 
Rushing attempts 40 63
generous attendance figure. And 

Yards rushing 131 229
only about one-half of those Yards passing 163 60human icicles braved the ele­Passes comp-att 13-37 4-13 ments long enough to witness the Had intercepted 4 0 
Total yards 294 289
greatest of all Cotton Bowl 

Fumbles-lost 3-3 6-3
finishes on a day when ticket 

Penalties-yards 8-74 6-39
scalpers had no real need to 
INDIVIDUAL LEADERS
worry about grabbing something 

RUSHING-Notre Dame, Heavens 16-71,
to eat. 

Montana. 7-26, Ferguson 1Q-19. Houston,As the Houston lead widened Davis 19-76, King 21-74. Love 22-73. and the chill factor dropped in the PASSING--Notre Dame, Montana 13-34-4, 163. Houston, Davis 4-12-0, 60.
third quarter , a stready stream 
RECEIVING-Notre Dame, Heavens 4-60
of those fans in attendance 

Haines 4·31. Masztak 3-49. Houston. Adams 
headed for their cars, from where 2·35, Herring 2-25. 








