~~------.--------.---------­
.---~----------------------------------------------------------~--------~-----------­
• • • God is absurd, page 5 

VOL. XIII, NO. 66 V an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 1979 
bv Kathleen Connelly 
Senior StaffReporter 
In the wake of the shooting of NOlre Dame senior Joe Camarda on Dec. 11, University officials are advising all students to be more security conscious. 
Edmund Price, director of Housing, said that the Adminis­tration is aware of the special problems confronting students who live off campus, and that Housing has the responsibility of assuring the safety of off-campus residents. 
The actual work of patroling and enforcing the law is up to the South Bend Police Department, Price noted. ''All we can do is caution the students and try to work ~i.th the police and town people.
'Inis view was echoed by Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vice presi­dent for Student Affairs, who stressed that students cooperate with the neighborhood, that a conscious effort be made to protect themselves and to find out what they can do to secure their homes. 
Shortly after the Camarda shooting the Office of Student Affairs called a special meeting of University, neighborhood and city officials to discuss neigh­borhood and student security. Representatives of the South 
Bend police, the m~yor's office, the city attorney's office, the city council, and the Northeast Neigh­borhood Association were present. Also attending were Van Wolvlear, James Roemer, dean of Students; Joseph Wall, director of Security; Andy McKenna, Student Body presl­d<"nt and John Fitzpatnck, off­campus commissioner. 
"Students are special targets because they have regular habits and their movements are fairly predictable," Van Wolvlear com­mented. He emphasized cooper­ation with neighbors noting that students are members of that 
Housing officials advise students about 0-C security probletns 
=============-========================================= Despite return of Khomeini 

Bakhtiar vows never to leave Iran 
community. 

''Anyone going on vacation can give the police a key and they will take care of the house," Van Wolvlear said. The police would turn on and off different lights during that time and check all 
entrances  to  make certain they  
are secure.  
McKenna  noted  that  most  

Notre Dame students aren't familiar with the kinds of prob­lems they' II encounter off campus, because most of them have always had their security needs taken care of by someone else. He also cited the unwilling­ness of some landlords to equ1p homes with security devices as a problem. 
'All we can do is caution the students' 
Dan D'Antonio, supervisor of Off-Campus Housing, encour­aged students to use the off­caft:lpus office when selecting a restdence. 
"To make the off-campus housing list, a proprietor must pass a housing mspection. If a. student comes in to ask about a particular landlord or house we can check the records,'' D'Antonio said. Each residence is then graded in various areas, including security. 

In cooperation with the South Bend pollee, a report compiled by the Off-Campus Housing Office will be released later this week containing figures on the four most heavily populated student areas in South Bend. It is hoped that the report will aid the police department in directing patrols to the areas most in need. 
D'Antonio advised students planning to move off campus to go to the Off-Campus Housing Office first, or if they've already found a residence, to check it out at the office and see ifit has been inspected before signing a lease. 
In response to charges that the Administration was not doing enough to protect students, D'Antonio pointed to the Off­Campus Night of last semester and to the extensive records and information in the Off-Campus Housing Office. 
Another Off-Campus night is tentatively planned for sometime this month as well as a series of lunch hour guest speakers in LaFortune. The Northeast Neighborhood Association is also expected to call a follow-up meeting to the one called shortly 
Neither rain nor snow nor slushy roads can stop a jogger from 
after the Camarda shootmg. 
following his appointed path. [photo by john Macor] 
TEHRAN,IRAN (AP) -Prime are wntmg about my resig­Minister Shahpour Bakhtiar nation is untrue," the vowed yesterday he would not embattled prime minister told be driven from office by the the Iranian people in a broad­return of Ayatullah Khomeini cast address. "I am goi'ng to from exile. He huddled with remain in the stronghold of the top security aides to plan for the constitution." arrival of the charismatic Mos­From his headquarters-in­lem leader. exile in France, Khomeini 
''All the nonsense and charged that Shah Mohammad rumors they (the newspapers) Reza Pahlavi, who appointed 

======================================= 
Investigators find 19th 

Victim search continues 
HOBOKEN, N.J. (AP)-Yesterday fire investiga­tors searched by hand for more bodies in mounds of rubble after recovering the 19th victim of a tenement fire believed started by an arsonist. 
More than 200 spectators lined police blockades and others watched the grim spectacle from windows of nearby buildings in the waterfront neighborhood until the search was suspended at nightfall. 
Two persons were missing and presumed dead from the fire Saturday in the 75-year-old, five­story building. All 21 persons were believed to be members of three families. Two of the familes moved here last May from Guyana. 
Authorities said that arson was suspected because of the intensity and s~;>eed of the early-morning blaze, but they srud they had uncovered no firm evidence and had no suspects. 
The workers were using a crane to move mountains of rubble caused by the collapse of the 
"They haven't gotten in tv the bottom hallway area yet where they want to really pursue the investigation. It's collapsed. But we think that's where we're going to find something," said Mayor Steve Capfiello. 
"They'! slow down when we get near that area and sift through it by hand,'' he said. Other are<ts of the building were already being searched by hand. 
Jack Hill, assistant Hudson County prosecutor, sa1d that although it had not. been determined for certain that the fire was deliberately started, "We strongly suspect it was arson." 
"We're trying to find a trace of the accelerant (a substance used to fuel a fire) and the pattern of the fire,' he said. 
"Investigators will do that before they look for any more bodies because we have to destroy the scene to find what we're looking for," said Hill, after workers had removed the 19th victim. 
Officials said 20 residents were injured, includ­Bakhtiar before bemg torced out of Iran by a popular uprising archestrated by Khomeini, was planning a mili­tary coup to return to power. 
The 78-year-old Khomeini wants to abolish the monarchy and set up an Islamic republic to replace Bakhtiar's govern­ment, which he denounces as a tool of the shah and of foreign interests. 
Factional strife continued. Pro-Khomeini demonstrators marched in Tehran, pro-shah g•ngs reportedly harassed mo­torists in the capital, and a Marxist guerrilla group warned Khomeini against "sufocating freedoms" if he takes command of the nation. 
A sovernment source said Bakhuar called in the members of his National Security Council -the interior minister, armed forces chiefs and the head of the paramilitary state police-to discuss plans for Khomeini' s scheduled arrival in Iran Fri­day. 
The Moslem elder, in exile for 14 years, is expected to be welcomed bY. hundreds of thou­sands of jubliant Iranians as the man who will abolish the monarchy. 
In his address, Bakhtiar called for national "calm and order" and said recent strikes, many of them directed at his government, have cost the corrupuon of the past. 
In an apparent reference to communists, he said some trou­blemakers in the country are ''directed from abroad.'' 
The 430,000-man Iranian military appears to hold the key to Iran's future. Khomeini must reach an accommodation with the army, which retains considerable loyalty to the shah, to succeed. 
About 3,000 demonstrators, apparently representing a communist faction, marched through the streets of Tehran yesterday shouting both pro­Khomeini slogans and "Workers and peasants, pull out the roots of exploitation!" 
Witnesses told reporters that about 150 men armed with staffs stopped traffic in south Tehran Saturday night and demanded that motorists shout pro-shah slogans. The group, one of the several bands of active shah supporters recently reported in the city, melted away when anti-shah militants arrived, the witnesses said. 
The Iranian People's War­riors Guerrilla Organizr ·n, a Marxist group, publi· .. an open letter to Khomr; 1 . warn­ing him of trouble if "> v.: are trying to use Islam to censor any free thinking, suppn~ss ideas, revive brainwashing, ,,e­clare there is only to be oa e party and suffocate other fret·­
roof and top two stories of the building. ing seven who remained hospitalized yesterday. country more than the official doms." 
................................................................... ..
~ 

~-----------~­
~-~ 
---, 


News in brief 
Caravan stops on way to demonstrate for support 
UTilE ROCK, ARK. (AP)-Farmers in a caravan of hundreds of tractors stopped over here yesterday on their way toWashington to demonstrate for congressional support. Gerald McCathern of Hereford, TX,. a spokesman for the American Agriculture movement, ~a.td the caravan was one of several expected to conver.ge Feb. 2 on Washington. He said the farmers want Congress to ' 'mandate to the president that he fully implement the 1977 Farm Act."McCathern said the tractorcade, which began last week in Bushland, TX, has doubled its original 175 vehicles. 
Marchers vow to continue to protest abortion laws 
FORT WAYNE, IND. Anti-abortion marchers here vowed Saturday to continue demonstrating and protesting until abortion is outlawed by an amendment to the U.S. Constttution. Several hundred pro-life supporters marched through downtown Fort Wayne to mark resistance to the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling to legalize abortion, handed down on January 22, 1973. In that decision, the justices said that states could not interfere with abortions during the first three months of a !?regnancy and could regulate-but not prohibit-the procedure durrng the second three months. 
Indian employees agree to end strikes, slowdowns 
NEW DELHI, INDIA (AP)-Unions representing a half-millioa Indian bank employee;; agreed yesterday to end nearly a month ofstrikes and work slowdowns that have threatened the national economy, the government announced. It said the workers would go back on the job today and resume negotiations a week later with the mostly nationalized banks on their wage and other demands. Two persons have been shot dead by police and hundreds injured or arrested in violence surrounding ''work to· rule" agitauon at banks since the last week of December. 
Commerce Dept. expects 7% hike in school costs 
WASI-llNGTON (AP)-Despite a decline in totalenrollments, expenditures for public and private schools at au levels are expected to nse 7 percent during the current school year, the Commerce Department has reported. The department said expenditures are expected to reach almost $150 billion during the 1978-1979 school year. And while colleges and universities comprise only about one-fifth of enroUment, the department said, they willaccountfor one-third of the expenditures. 
Weather 

Mostly cloudy today. High in the low to mid 30s. Cloudy tonight. Lows15-20. A chance of snow tomorrow. High upper 20s to low 30s. Southwest winds 10-15 mph today. 
3:30 & 8:30 pm--FIIM, "grapes of wrath," ENGR. AUD. 
4 pm--BOXING, bengal bouts practice, ACC BOXING ROOM 
5:15pm--MASS FOR UFE, SACRED HEART CHURCH 
6 & 11 pm--FILM, "cool hand luke," ENGR. AUD. 
7 pro--MEETING, for members of ombudsman and others 
interested, LA FORTUNE BAlLROOM 
7 pro--AUDITIONS, nd-smc theatre production of wedekind's 
spring's awakening, O'LAUGHUN AUD. SMC 
7 pro--DISCUSSION, jesuit volUnteer's representative, all 
invaed, UBRARY CONCOURSE 
7:30 
pm--BASKE1BAIL, nd women vs vaiparaiso, ACC 

7:30 
pro--MEETING, faculty senate, 202 CCE 


7:30pm--FILM SERIES, "day for night," sponsored by speech and drama dept., WASH. HAIL 
8 pro--LECTURE, ''the impact of labor economics on strategies for battling inflation & unemployment," dr. lester c. thurow, m.i.t., sponsored by economics dept., UB. AUD. & LOUNGE 
8 pro--LECTURE "beyond materialism," prof. kenneth sayre, nd, sponsored by philosophy dept., GALVIN AL'D. 

Monday, January 22, 1979 -page 2 
SU plans concerts 


'Heart' to play at ACC 
by Michael Onufrak.__ 

Jim Speier, Student Union concert commissioner, revealed yesterday that the rock group ''Heart'' will be playing at the ACC Feb. 22. According to Speier, this is the only concert that has been booked but he hopes to fill three more concert dates this semester. 
The other dates have not yet been filled because many 
Waksman to lecture 

''Specific and non-specific sup­pressor substances' ' will be the topic of a Department of Biology seminar pq:sented by Professor Byron H. Waksman tomorrow at 
12:15 p.m. in room 278 of the Galvin Life Sciences Building. 
Waksman is a professor of Microbiology in the School of Medicine at Yale University· and all interested persons are invited to ati:end. Refreshments will be served at noon. 
The Department of Biology and Microbiology and Miles Labor­atories are the co-sponsors of this seminar. 
>--The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Scoop Sullivan Asst. Night Editor: jim Rudd Copy Readers: Debbie Dahrling, Mike Rtdenour Layout Staff: Margie , Brass£/, Pam Degnan, Margaret Kruse, [also ... thanks to John Calcutt] Features Layout: Tim joyce Sports Layout: Paul Mullaney Typists: Kim Convey, Beth Willard, Bill Swift, Katie Brehl Early Morning Typist: Kim Convey Day Editor: Kate Kilkuskie Ad Layout: Joe Murphy, Bub Photographer: john Macor 
The Observer )USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. 
, The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year [$10 per semester) from The Observer. P.O. box 
0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
New Low  =-o. "'  
Regular Prices  n 0  
=-o  
all $7 .9S LP's  ~  
only $4.99  
all $8.98 LP's  
only $5.99  
Flanner Records  
603 Flanner  
phone 4256  


FLANNER 


mon-thurs 4:00-5:00' 6:30-8:00 sun 6:30-8:00 
artists who Spe1er would like to conflict with a Notre Dame sign have not finalized their basketball game. tour schedules for 1979. Speier hopes the three open 
Billy Joel, a(! artist whom concert spots will be filled 
Speier feels would draw well !lt either by acts who have done the ACC, is currently "con­well at the ACC in the past, or sidering'' a date at Notre by newcomers to Notre Dame Dame. Speier is "hopeful" like Joel or Dan Fogelberg. that Joel will accept, but says he cannot be sure until Joel works out his upcoming concert 



Erratum
schedule. 

Although Speier is optimistic Friday's edition of The about Joel coming to Notr.e Observer incorrectly stated D<Lme, he is hesitant to comm1t where two ftlms of the Social himself about the Joel concert Concerns Film Series would be until he receives aefinite con­shown. The Grapes ofWrath will firmation. Last semester two be shown tonight in the En­Student Union-snon<:ored con­gineering Auditorium and tomor­certs were cancelled when rock row night in Washington Hall. guitarist Stephen . Stills Cool Hand Luke will be shown cancelled his tour and an Out­tonig-ht and tomorrow night in the laws concert was found to be in Engmeering Auditorium. 

The Observer Monday, January 22, 1979 -page 3 
by Ray McGrath Senior StaffReporter 

Over 180 Notre Dame and St. Mary's students and 40 faculty members gathered at the library · auditorium last night to set out for small group discussions which would complete the official func­tions of this year's Urban Plunge program. 
"You've been an honor to your program,'' stated Helen Volkomener, executive director of the University chapter of the 
Urban 


Plunge 
Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry. 
More students, 195 total,

participants 
completed the program than ever before. 
Fr. Don McNeill, director of
complete the Center for Experiential Learning, and coordinator of the Urban Plunge, sees rwo goals to be achieved by the students. The

program 
first is to ''enable the students to be in a place when they do not know anyone to view l?eople ~~rki~~ for social justice m the 
Students andfaculty members gather to discuss Urban Plunge. [photo by john MacorJ 
cmes. 

The second goal was "to go enced. from St. Mel's parish in Chicago. volved looking for jobs for transi­beyond that level of participa­Students found a .variety of David Childers, also a semor, ents so they could buy food." tion,'' McNeill said. They went situations in the mner-city stayed in a Houston, TX, parish, The Notre Dame and Saint to parishes in groups, and were parishes. John Smith, a senior, with a Mexican family and was Mary's students received letters ~iven chances, both privately and was able to take a close look at "shown how the food stafup from the people they met saying m a fol'tow-up paper, to reflect the criminal court and prison program works." He and "Thank you for being willing to and discuss what they experi-systems while exploring ourward another student also ''got in-be exposed." 

I CLIP THIS COUPONUII \
date." may be affected by the lottery are are in good stead and lucky to ~---------------~ 
The date Green speaks of is the included in the RA selection have such a large number apply. date of the proposed lottery, process. "There are 1400 juniors It is an attractive position and we 
IRIVER CITY RECORDS I
which, if it takes place, will be and close to 500 RA applicants. I get good, qualified people." 
I I
South Bend's largest Record G 
Prof. Sayre 
N.D. KARATE CLUB 
I Tape Selection S I 



to continue 
I I
Concert Ticket Headquarters
Tues & Thurs 6-8 pm 



lecture series 
in the ACC Pit 
Professor Kenneth Sayre of the 
new members welcome
Notre Dame Philosophy Depart­






I $1.~~p~JF! & I
ment will be this week's lecturer 
beginners class being formed 
as the department's Perspective Lectures m Philosophy continues. "Mind's Place in Nature" will 
I Any album or tape with this coupon. Limit 1. No~ thru]an. 31. I

Instructors are 

I Not good on cut-outs, imports or other sale items. 1 lectures with "Beyond Material­be the overall theme of Sayre's 

master Raymond L. Sell 
1 ND/Smc ch•cka acc•pt•d for up to 1
ism" being his first topic tonight 
at B p.m. m the Biology Auditor­

1 SlO.OO ov•r putchaa• amount I 1


4th Degree Black Belt
ium. Sayre will continue the series on Wednesday night at 8 in 
1 16,000 albums and tap•• to chooa• ftom 1

ffir. mark GriHies
the Biology Auditorium entitled 
1 P•ach ctat•a avallabl• 1
"The Dawn of Awareness." His final lecture will discuss ''Where 

1st Degree Slack Belt 
the World Begins" on Friday at 
I I
River City Records 

3:30 p.m. in the Library Faculty 

classes start this tuesday 
I I
50970 u.s. 31 North, 3 miles north of Notre Dame Lounge. • Open 10-10 7 days a week 
I


call Mike 3588 or Mark 234·2032 
The series is open to all 277-4242\interested persons. 

~---------------~ 
Lottery spee~s up RA selection 
. 

by Patti 0 'Neill held sometime berween March 5 see this as a significant voice. 
(the date that RAs are notified of In fairness to these 500 juniors,
The impending lottery has their status) and March 16 of which only approximately 125 caused what Fr. Gregory Green, (begining of spring break.) will be chosen as RAs, Green assistant vice president of The rectors, therefore, have says that RAs must be selected Student Affairs, terms "a close­less than one month to choose quickly so that they will not be 
ordered drill' ' in the RA selection their RAs. Mter passing the disadvantaged in possible house process. The deadline for com­initial screening, candidates for hunting. Even with the late date pleted RA applications is today as the position of RA must contact of the proposed lottery, three the entire process has been the rectors of the halls in which times as much time as P.eople expedited. they will seek interview by Feb. have needed in the past will still 
Students were to pick up their 4. It is then up to the rectors to remain for house hunting," applications starting Dec. 4 with interview the candidates and Green said. · the deadline for applications select their RAs. Green admits, Green does not see a signifi­
p,i~k-up]an. 1--during the semes­"The burden is on the rectors. cant increase in the number of ter break. According to Green, We had to do it this way so as not applicants because of the pro­'We have earlier deadlines be­to disadvantage the students. All posed lottery. "There were 450 cause we want the juniors to the rectors agreed." applicants last year and close to know if they have been selected Green realizes that a signifi­SOO this year. You couldn't tie as RAs prior to the final housing cant number of the juniors who this increase to the lottery. We 
Notre Dame Rugby Club 
Win round trip air fare for two to Ireland!! chances are on sale now at the dining halls 

$1.00 per chance 
drawing to be held at Corby's saturday night, jan. 27th 
Depart from Chicago on Mar. 10 return to Chicago on Mar. 25 
either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD 
reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson as possible. Edirorials represent the Managing Editor, ........ Steve Odland 'Spans Editor ............ Ray O'Bn'en Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chris Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ... .J • • &rb Langhenry Photo Editor . . . . . . . . . . Doug Chnstian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Edirorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mills per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Edito~ ... : . . . . . . . . Phil Cacld_e). Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Samt Mary s EdttoF . . . . . . FJ/en Buddy Busine~~ Manager ........ john Tucker 
Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .............. Ann Gales Adverttstng Mahager ........ Bob Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Mike Lewis 


_The Observer_ of 

~-­

The Observer Monday, January 22, 1979 -page 4 
In Mexico
RIVER CITY RECORDS PRESENTS: 
Pope inaugurates bishops 
Harry Chapin 
PUEBLA, Mexico (AP) -Pope 'Third World regions of Asia and word" ·cannot be spread effec­John Paul II inaugurates a con­Mrica. tively in Latin Amenca, a region 
in concert! 
The Master Story-Teller Returns to South Bend 
Fridav February 2 8:00pm Morris Civic Auditorium 
Reserved seats: $7.50;$6.50 Now on sale citRIVER CITY RECORDS, 50970 U.S. 31 North (3 miles north of campus) and at the Morris Civic Box 
Office, downtown South Bend. 
Slimline Tl-50 ru Slimline Tl-25rM 
ference of bishops here next Saturday that is expected to have crucial meaning for the Roman Catholic Church in Latin Amer­ica. Some theologians say its repercussions on Christianity could spread throughout the world. 
The 350 or so Latin American bishops will try to reconcile the mission of evangelization with social needs. They are seeking to maintain unity in the face of a growin~ clamor from churchmen and latty for faster social and political change. 
This intra-church debate has been particularly strong in Latin America. The experience gathered in the Conference of the Latin American Episcopate, meeting Jan. 27-Feb. 12, may especailly influence the thinking ofRoman Catholic prelates in the 
Performance and price are the keys in choosing a,calculator. One of these Texas Instruments slide-rules is right for you. 
Capability. Quality. Value. The right combination can help you make short work of problems in fields like math, engineering, science and business statistics and give you more time for other important things. Choose the Tl calculator that's right for you and get ahead of the game. 
TI-55. Advanced slide-rule functions with statistics, programmability and valuable problem-solving applications book. 
The versatile Tl-55 calculating system is packed with the features and func­tions you need to handle almost any mathematical operation, from loga­rithms and trigonometry to advanced statistical problems. Thirty-two steps of programmability add new dimen­sions of accuracy, speed and ease to performing repetitive calculations and "what-if" analyses. You just teach the Tl-55 a series of operations and it per­forms those steps for you. 
For more help in tive decisions, the Tl-55 comes with the Calculator De­cision -Making Sourcebook, a $5.00 value. The book, 140 pages of easy-to­understand, real­life applications, 

Texas Instruments technology-bringing affordable electronics to your fingertips. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCORPORATED 
·u.s. suggested retail priCe © 1979 ilxas lnstrumeniS Incorporated 45628 
shows you how to use the power of statistics, financial math and program­mability in analyzing relationships in data, verifying quality and perfor­mance, measuring change, forecast­ing trends and projecting returns ... in short, how to make better decisions, today and tomorrow. Calculator and book combination, only $50.00*. 
Sllmline Tl-50. Apowerful, stylish slide-rule with new Constant Memory™ feature. 
The pocket-portable Slimline Tl-50 is today's mo_st powerful liquid crystal display (LCD) slide-rule calculator. It has 60 functions including common and natural logarithms and six trigo­nometric operations that can be per­formed in three angular modes (de­grees, radians or grads). 
Seven built-in statistical functions make it easy to "boil down" large amounts of data so you can perform accurate analyses and draw reliable conclusions. 
Two constant memories retain their contents even when the calculator is turned oft, so frequently used ·con­stants and other basic values are at your fingertips when you need them. 
Two miniature batteries provide over 1000 hours of operation in normal use; Tl's APD™ automatic power down feature helps prevent accidental bat­tery drain by turning off the calculator after approximately 10 minutes of non-use. With imitation leather wallet, $40.00*. 
Slimline Tl-25. Slide-rule power at a small price. 
Economy and value go hand-in-hand with the Slimline Tl-25, a pocket­portable LCD scientific calculator that has what it takes to handle advanced math. It provides the most-needed slide-rule functions. Trigonometry in degrees, radians or grads. Plus basic statistical power, too: Mean, Variance, Standard Deviation. 
Three levels of parentheses can handle up to three pending operations to make your work easier. Four-key memory allows you to store and recall values, add-to memory contents and exchange stored and displayed numbers. 
The Tl-25 goes far on a pair of min­iature batteries-ir:tcludes APDTM cir­cuitry. Vinyl wallet included, $33.00*. 
See the complete lineup of Texas 
Instruments slide-rule calculators at your dealer  ~ •n  
today.  There's  one  ex­ 1[)/  
actly right for the work  
you're doing.  

''What happens in Puebla will be imponant not only for the Latin American church but for the world church as well," wrote theologian Roben McMee Brown of New York's Lutheran Union Theological Seminary in a recent anicle. 
He ar_gued that if the bishops retreat from the socail awareness put fonh at the similar confer­ence in Medillin, Colombia, in 1968, it would encourage those who resist change. 
He predicts that ifthe bhishops endorse and implement the Medellin decisions, ''they will give new energy and hope to groups across the world, as well as Latin America, who look to the church to embrace new alterna­tives to our tired and oppressive structures.'' 
Many bisho\)s say ''the good of serious poverry and many military governments, unless the church takes an active role in helping the poor meet social and economic needs and in liberating the-oppressed from authoritarian regimes. 
How this can best be brought about will be one of the hottest debates during the 17-day meet­ing in Puebla, a city ofalmost one million people about 70 miles southeast of Mexica City. 
A survey of the bishops taken by the Latm American Episcopal Council -known by its Sparush acronym CELAM -showed that a majority feel the conference will renew the role of the church to fight for Latin America's poor and oppressed. 
Day school needs tutors 

Last night's reorganizational meeting for Sr. Marita's Primary Day School was cancelled due to the Super Bowl and another meeting is scheduled for tomor­row night at 6:30 in La Fonune Little Theatre. This meeting is for those interested in tutoring for Sr. Marita's Primary Day School. 
Rugby team plans trip in LaFortune 
A meeting for all past, present and future Notre Dame rugby players will be held tonight at 7 
p.m. on the second floor of Uonuen. The 1979-1980 season training, and the trip to Ireland will be discussed. Also all players who still have their team 1erseys are asked to bring the Jerseys to the meeting. 
B€€R

specials! 
PBR 
24 loose $5.89 
m~elos $8.25 
natuRal lJqht 6 pac $1.69 Olymp1a 24 loose $6.59 
Busch 
12 pac $.3.39 
case $6.75 

31.€Z maRket 
U.S.3tnoRth at &!tal Roab 



When Irish Eyes
Great Men and the Absurdity of God 
Are Crying 
Chris Stewart, Features Ed. 
GREAT MEN: telling me WHY, WHO, WHAT I AM, Are born to live, detached from the FROM WHENCE I CAME, AND TO acquisitive consctousness of the WHERE I AM GOING. masses. In the trauma of misbegotten Do not look back, but live each dreams, shattered illusions, crushed moment to its apex. hopes and crucified expectations, 
Seize the opportunity at hand, In the end, intuiting its value and staggering In death potential, and act accordingly. I sense Something within my breast: 
Mock fear with faith and humor. Is it God or is it Memorex? Confront the spectre of death with ABSURDITY: magnaminity and inexorable courage. Like a Mother, His humor is His 
Are visionaries, sagacious and ob­love. servant, seeing forbidden truths which An eternal smile, an assurance in a no men dare acknowledge, save he. world of inestimable sorrow. 
Are translucently humble, realizing I close one day, one door: their talents are gifts from an Invisible 
YOUTH:

Power, giving thanks to that Power by Farewell, mon ami, you touched medevelopmg those gifts for the edifi­in soothing ways, cation of all mankind. 
Only to ravage me in Jove.
Love, despite the temptation to My virginity, a joke: The worldindifference and despair. 
fornicates my dreams with alarmingBelieve, when only a fool would consistency, so I will dream no more.
dare. 
I will be a man, and work.
See truth in All Things, uniquely But I ask: carved by the unerring Spirit of God. 
AIL THINGS BEING: DOES GOD MAKE MEN GREAT The mystery of birth OR DO GREAT MEN MAKE GOD? The formation of character, self and Your . silence ts deafening, mon 
being freres. Turn down the din. The quest for experience, know­Come, sally forth, and burn y.our ledge and love bridges of logic, spanning chasms of The pres<;nce of childhood inno-Holocausts, and tell me about 
cence love The tenacity of youthful idealism truth The terror of sexual awakening time The transition of child to adulthood, and if any of it really matters in the 
leaving behind those mysterious end. • feelings, semi-illumined insights I'm waiting to hear. 
Bill Demgsey 

It was nine o'clock on Friday night, Freedom Hall, but felt confident December 29th. At this time most nonetheless. There were spasmodic sports fanatics were watching Clemson nightmares of Kyle Macy jumpers defeat Ohio State in the Gator Bowl. It from 40 feet out, hitting nothing but would be the last time Woody Hayes net; or Wildcat fans, 15,000 strong, would coach his legions. His inept pleading with their team to roll up the imitation of Muhammed Ali failed to score while they led by 47 points at the 
soothe the wounds of defeat, and by halftime. 
the next day he would be formally But I kne:w better. This is the best dismissed for his obnoxious antics. team Digger Phelps has ever But my mind was preoccupied with assembled. We'd blow'em off the Notre Dame. coun, and substitute so freely that 
Ohio State salvaged some dignity Kentucky would think we had turbo­that day by knocking off Duke, then charged Adidas as we blew by their Number 1, in the Holiday Festival in defense for endless uncontested lay­NYC. Having made plans to attend ul?s. Orlando would set a new record the NO-Kentucky game in Louisville, wtth 14 slam dunks in a game, the final this news filled me with an unexpected one resulting in a deformed back­joy. If we could win tomorrow night, board. The game would finish with we could claim the top position in the Tim Healy doing his Jerry West college polls. imitation and heaving the final shot 
from 87 feet out, hook shot, andKentucky was a mediocre team this swishing it through cleanly. Ah,year, having lost their two huge inside blissful contemplation.
men and Jack Givens, their incom­Our seats were excellent. It wasparably deft shooting forward, to obviously apparent that the Notregraduation. I was making the pil­Dame partisans were outnumberedgrimmage from St. Louis to "neutral" tonite-15,000 to 1,000, or so it seemed.
Louisville. How this series ever came It would not matter, dreamed I, sinceabout, with the game held IN we intended to raise the roof in typical KENTUCKY and calling it neutral-I'll Notre Dame fashion. 
never know. Besides, Coach Joe Hall 
had made several disparaging remarks As the game began, the Irish about ND last year after the NCAA certainly appeared calm and poised to finals, and I was primed to see ND assume their deserved Number 1 ·avenge itself against the Wildcats. posmon. The Cats' Clayton was hot Saturday morning, my famil.r. and I from the outset, while the Irish began our sojourn to Louisville. I shooters were seemingly distracted realized that tt would certainly be a by the attractive Kentucky cheer­· difficult task defeating the Cats in leaders. After 10 minutes, we were down by seven points. As the half whittled away, the Irish became 
ignited, particulatly after Orlando's net-rending stuff shot. We assumed
Intellectual Living 
out first lead, 34-33, and ended the half on top by three. 
Nietzsche and Homer In the second half, the combined play of Laimbeer, Tripucka and Jack­Pat Byrnes son powered the team to a command­ing 12 point advantage with less than
Meeting of the Minds at the Edge of H: Waiter? H: The joke is on you. I'm half 10 minutes remaining in the game.
the Universe N: This is the ~dge ofthe universe, we Jewish. 
• Enter freshman guard Anderson for can do whatever we want. Waiter! N: The half that eats? 
Kentucky. He snaked dud pearled his (fwo men deep in thought collide. Waiter: Two beers, sir. H: How about another beer? 
way through the "holdy" ND defense,One is Nietzsche, the other is Homer.) N: Thank you. N: Fine. Waiter! 
shredding it for an amazing 17 pointsNietzsche: Hey, old man! You almost H: Good service. W: Two beers, dark. 
in the second half. 
knocked me off the edge of the N: Not really, I would have prefered N: Thank you. (fo Homer) Mazeltov! 
The game evened up at 70 apiece,universe! What's the matter--are you an Old Fashioned. H: Mazeltov! 
and all the Our Fathers and Hailblind? H: That's life. (They dtink.) 
Marys could not obviate the Irish slide. 
Homer: Yes. N: Death. 
Sigmund Freud: Mind if I join you? Anderson continued to rule the court, (Pause) H: Bingo, my little cupcake. 
H: Not at all. My name is Homer, and and the final score reflected hisN: Uh ... sorry about that, old timer. N: L'chaim. 
this is Friedrich Nietzsche. domination: 81-76, Kentucky. 
Can I buy you a drink? (They drink) N: You can call me Nietzsche. As we proceeded toward the exit, IH: Certainly. I am a bit thirsty. My H: Nice night. 
F: You can call me Sigmund Freud. was pleasantly surprised when a groupname is Homer. Pleased to meet you. N: Night? Oy, that I should recognize Pleased to meet you Mr. Nietzsche and of Wildcat fans came by and comph­N: Right. My name is Nietzsche, day or night. (Pause) I'm still shook Mr. Homer. Just Homer, is it? mented the Notre Dame effort. OneFeidrich Nietzsche, you can call me up about it all, I guess. This whole H: Really Homer Rabinowitz, but guy gibed me by asking if I couldNietzsche. death thing bugsme It's not what I had nobody ever wanted to sculpt a bust of discuss with Digger the possibility ofH: I wrote the Iliad and the Odyssey. heard it cracked up to be. Some Rabinowitz. extending the NO-Kentucky contractHave you read them? ending. And after all the times I said F: Could be Freu-iian. beyond 1980 for games played atN: Why yes. In fact there is even a God was dead. Boy, is He pissed! (He H: No, ;ust too many letters. Freedom Hall. I responded that hesequel to these about which people drinks) Excuse me, I'm rambling. It's Sculpting am't a cake w.Uk. would love the weather in South Bend, have been raving for the past decade. just that I had to &o and put it in black and we would not want to deprive him
F: Knock knock. 

It's called Space Odyssey. (chuckle) and white, didn't I. Stupid! Powerful of th-.: opportunity to experience -first­N: I'll bite. Who's there?
H: I've never heard of lt. thing, writing is. 
hand -the marvels of a NorthernF: Libido.
N: It's just aJ"oke I've been telling for H: The pen is mightier than the Indiana winter. He laughed. 
H: Libido who? 

the last deca e ... a joke. sword. 
The loyalty of both teams impressedF: Li-bi-do next time you're in town.
H: I don't get it. N: I'll bet the man who said that me. As usual, ND showed a lot ofHeh-heh.
N: You have been often touted as the didn't die of old age. Care for a seat? 
H: Oy. class. Although the team managed topremier epic poet for your grand H: Sure. 
blow a substantial lead, I promised theN: Gevalt!
depictions of man hurled into a hostile (They sit at a table among many Kentucky fans as I left that I would seeJ7: Funny, you didn't look Jewish...
umverse, tossed around by fate, others. Many great thinkers are them in Salt Lake City March 26, when H: What 1s white and acts like anbeaten, flayed, torn from his home­present.) 
ND claims its first national basketballArmenian post man? 
land, tortured by his very soul, yet N: Quatnt little place .. I stop in here crown.
N: I give up.

surviving, emerging triumphant, 'a every so often. Who would have H: Six eggs! (Pause) It's a good punhero, a superman worthy of existence, suspected it? Life after death. 
in Greek. 

rising above the spineless superfluity H: You call this living? You should 
Features Policy
of his race, those wimpy, weakneed, check out the health spa at forty­F: I have a joke-­namby-pamby--second and eternity street. Two N: Keep it! 
The Features Editor encourages crea­H: Ha ha "Space Odyssey" --very swimming pools, wetght room, ... H: Check please! 
tive and original contributions fromgood, ha ha. Excuse me, you were N: "Universal" gym, of course? N: I ought to be running along, too. 
the ND community on cultural andsaying? H: ...sauna, jacuzzi, indoor track. F: Same here. I have a debate with literary trends. Interviewers, writers, N: (Sigh) What'll you have to drink? Boy! that's the life! You really should Atilla the Hun at noon. (They depart and layout personnel are needed.
H: Beer. try it. There are no people like spa without leaving . a tip. The waiter Several new columns are in the offing.
N: Dark? people. • slowly finishes typing the last sen­Criticisms are welcome. Contact Chris H: Please. N: That's right; I forgot you were tence. Maybe it would have been a 
Stewart at 7471, 3748.
N: Waiter! Greek. conclusion had there been a tip.) 

-~~--­
The Observer Monday, January 22, 1979-page 6 



...get all the news on notre dame and st. mary's sub~cribe to 

_The Observer_ 
thru May for only $10 send payment to: 
THE OBSERVER, CIRCULATION 
BOX Q NOTRE DAME, IND. 46556 
along with your name, address. and zip 
f''""' ...................._ ........................................-....................._.. 
A Representative from the
IJESUIT VOLUNTEERS Midwest Corps will meet with "tudents interestedIi in a year-off or post-grad program 
~ 
I 
today 1:30 to ..-~oo office of volunteer services 
tonight 7:00 to 10~00 memorial library concourse 
................ ..J 
CHICAGO TRIBUNE 
smc hom€ 0€lJV€RY call cella 4-1-4377 OR ann 4-1-4369 
(campus R€PS ) 
ACROSS 2. Steal from 27. Befall: 2 wda. 
1. School aubjeet 3. Certainly: 28. Rainbow c 
4. Gunman's 3wda. 29. -out, distri­~1: alanr 4. Deserve bute 
R 

8. Woeiame! 6. Spoken 31. Sweetheart: 
12. 
Dove'• c:all 6. Impudence: •lang 

13. 
Great Lake alang 36. Weep 


0

a. Confront 7. Hawaiian convulsively 1fi. Recede garland 36. Political union 
s 

16. Done ..,..jftJy: 8. Add at the 37. Crinp In fear hyph.wd. end 38. Battle mark s 
18. Wicked 9. Deposited 39. Injure 
20. Haraaa 10. Land measure 40. Solitary 
w 

21. Item of value 11. Comprehend 41. Mineral 
23. Wheedle 17. Male duck spring 
0

26. Bol<inr match 19. Old soldier 42. Baby's hat 
26. Financial 21. Help in 43. Riehard -. institution wrongdoing John Doe's 
R 

27. That man 22. Painful friend 
30. Blunder 23. Fashion with 45. Greasy sub­
D 

31. 
Compel a knife stanee 

32. 
El<ist 24. Formerly 46. Unite in 


s

33. 
Golf gadget 26. Blessing marriage 

34. 
Cherish 

35. 
Utter explosively 

36. 
Window glaso 

37. 
Thicket of shrubbery 

38. 
P"'tenoe 



40. 
Ear projection 

41. 
"Wizard of Oz" character 


44. Immediately 47. Separate 
48. 
First-rate: 2wds. 

49. 
Even score 

50. 
Branch of the military 


61. 
Look cloaely 

62. 
Lonr-practieed 


Friday's answers 

r----------------------------,
MONDAYMGHI'MOVIES AT WASHINGTONHAIL 
A film series being offered in conjunction with SPDR 313 
Aspects of the European Cinema of the 60's and 70's. ' 
The series is open to the public. Admission at the door $1.00 or a season ticket for all thirteen screenings may be purchased'for $10.0~ from ~e Department of Speech and Drama, or at the door m Washington Hall (Notre Dame campus) on the evening of the first screening. 
The showings will begin promptly at 7:30p.m. 
Jan. 12, 1979 DAY FOR NIGHT, directed by Francois Truffault 
Jan. 29, 1979 PIERROT LE FOU, directed by Jean-Luc Goddardl 
Feb. 5, 1979 1HE SHAME, directed by Ingmar Bergman 
Feb. 12, 1979 BEllE DE JOUR, directed by Luis Bunuel 
Feb. "19, 1979 IF... , directed by Lindsay Anderson 
Feb. 26, 1979 !\ED DESERT, directed by Michelangelo Antonioni Mar. 5, 1979 IDENTIFICATION MARIQ:· NPNE directed by JerZ} Skolomo~ski Mar. 12, 1979 WR: MYSTERIES OF THE nRGANISM, directed by Dustan Makaveitch _ 
Mar. 26, 1979 S1ROSZEK, directed by Werner Herzog 
Apr. 2, 1979 1HE SPIDER'S S1RA1EGY, directed bv BernardcJ Benoloucci 1 Apr. 9, 1979 1HE SALAMANDER, directed by Alain Tanner 1 
Apr. 23, 1979 PROVIDENCE, directed by Alain Resnais 
I 

Apr. 30, 1979 LET JOY REIGN SUPREME, direcr~d bv Bernard II Tave"rnier For further information, call the Speech and J)rama Ottice I 
284-4141. ' I I
PLEASE CLIP THIS AD FOR FUTURE REFERENCE 
I 

--------------------------~ 
ND senior 
•

recetves scholarship 
A Notre Dame senior major­ing in English and philosophy, John P. Santos of San Antonio, Texas, has been awarded one of the Rhodes Scholarships for graduate study at. England's Oxford University. 
Editor of a student literary magazine, The juggler, and 1977 chairman of Notre Dame's Sophomore Literary Festival, Santos is the author of several published poems, the winner of three writing awards, including the Notre Dame Sullivan award for fiction, and ha~ played the lead role in several campus dramatic productions. 
Named for Cecil Rhodes, the British empire builder who gave his name to Rhodesia, the scholarships to 32 Americans each year provide approxi­mately $8,000 to individuals for tuition and living expenses. 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
YO// 8E:TTB< GET YO// IINO ON THAT PLANe, YOIJR.. IJNa.£ 
SIR. THe BLACK HAVeN'T ~ ANO IAIH17E5 WLO HEARIJ 7HE 
• Tl/RN IJP ANY LA5TOF M£., 

YOIJ'I?£ A /.OSER,R//..EY, YOU HeAR MEr '101/'Re A 77?&ACJf­eKJIJS Lfl7l£ I#M! THERE'S A ~IAL PLACE IN HEJ..L FOR SN/TCJf£3 1../Ke YOIJ/ YOUHCMM&? 



~-~-------~ 
The Observer -Sports 
• • • Irish split 
[continued from page 8] 
Tech came back at the four­minute mark, as a pass by Tech's Glenn Merkosky caromed off the Irish defense. Mel Pearson took the bouncing puck all alone in front of Irish goalie Dave Laurion, and fired a low shot into the net. 
The first period ended with no further scoring, although the Irish had a great opportunity when Tech's John Haddad was given a five-minute major pen­alty at 4:45. 
The Irish came out strong again in the second period, as once again Rockwell failed to stop the first Notre Dame shot. Jeff Logan passed to Bill Rothstein from behind the net, and Rothstein put the puck past a surprised Rockwell. 
With Irish defenseman John Friedmann off for cross-check­ing, Tech tied the score at the 
11:33 mark. Greg Hay passed out to Rick Boehm on the right point, and the Tech center slapped one into the left side of the net. 
The Irish took the lead on a powerplay goal with only four seconds left in the period. Dave Poulin passed to Jeff Brownschidle from behind the net on the left side. Brownschidle drew the defense to his side, then passed to Kevin Humphreys, who lifted a high shot past Rockwell. 
Earlier m the period Laurion was hit in the shoulder by a high shot, but managed to finish the period. The shoulder tightened up, however, and Gr· Rosenthal was inserted in 
.••c nets for the final period. 
Rosenthal barely had time to tighten his pads before the Huskies had ued the score. In a wild scramble in front of the Irish net following the opening face-off, ND's Scott Cameron tried to fall on the puck, but failed, and Dave J oelson poked the puck past the helpless Irish goaltender. 
Tech scored the eventual winning goal on another freaky play, at 13:13, as a shot in the Irish end bounced off Michalek high into the air. Gord Salt, the leading goal scorer in the WCHA, slapped at the ~;>uck, .as soon as it htt the ice, mto the left side of the net. 
Saturday: Laurion comes back 
The Irish controlled play again on Saturday, and this 
time the bounces went their 
way, as they posted a 5-4 win. 
Laurion started again despite the shoulder problem, and played his usual consistent game. 
''It took a lot of spunk by Laurion to prel:?are for this game," Smith said later. "We warmed up all three goal­tenders since his shoulder was p~ettY, sore, but we left it up to htm. 
The Irish came out smoking again, as they scored on their first shot for the second straight night. A Tech defenseman tried to clear their zone from in front of the net, but Humphreys stole thepuck and slipped it into the net before Rockwell had a chance to react. The score came at the 18-second mark. 
Bill Rothstein added to the kad on another great individual effort, as he stole the puck from Tony Stiles at the Irish blueline and moved down uncontested on Rockwell. The Tech goalie went to the ice, anJ Rothstein s!ipped the puck in on the left stde. 
Tech got on the board at 

11:45 on a questionable play. Haddad and Salt moved into the Irish end on a two-on-one break, and the Irish bench and most of the crowd screamed for an offsides call. But the play continued, as Salt hit Haddad on Laurion's left, and Haddad's shot slipped between Laurion's pads into the net. 
The first period scoring ended at 18:28, when Stiles tallied for Tech off a face-off in the Irish end, slappin~ in a shot past a screened Launon. 
Dave Poulin notched his 19th goal of the season early in the second period on an Irish powerplay, as he stuffed in a shot from behind the net off assists by Humphreys and Meredith at 2:07. 
Salt cut into the Irish lead at 10:36, as Laurion couldn't cover up on a shot by Greg Hay, and Salt put the rebound into the net. 
But Greg Meredith scored the game wmner at 14: 13, as he took a pass from]ohn Schmidt from behind the net and flicked a quick shot past Rockwell. 
"It's awful nice to win," Smith said after the game. "It's also good to see our leading scorers (Poulin, Meredith) getting some goals again. 
Monday, January 22, 1979 -page 7 
Frosh shines as Irish lose 
by Michael Ortman Sports Wn'ter 

Notre Dame freshman Donald Casey broke his own varsity record in the 200-yard butterfly Friday night, but it just wasn't enough as the Irish swimmers lost to Wayne State, 62 -51. 
Casey, swimming in only his second dual meet at Rockne Memorial Pool, swam the dis­tance in 2:01.8, surpassing the mark of 2:02.8 that he set six weeks earlier against Western Michigan. 
''It really feels great to break
ND grapplers win three 
any record," said the Holmdel, N.)., native, "but I think a bigby Btl! Marquard Mike Tower and John Iglar factor for me has been the great Sports Writer suffered one setback apiece in attitude on this team. Everyone"I have to be pleased with our finishing the weekend slate at wants to help out everybody
performance this weekend'', 2-1. Moore outs~ored his oppon­else. My time in the 200-fly has smiled Notre Dame wrestling ents by a combined total of 22-6, dropped six seconds since I coach Ray Sepeta. ''The team while all three oflglar's decisions joined the team." 
has been improving consistently 
were determined by three points Notre Dame got off to a slow over the season, and our per­or fewer. start in the meet, dropping the 
formance this past weekend, first four events, and trailed
Sepeta credits the li~hter
against fairly good teams, is 23-11. But the Irish came right
weights for giving the Insh a
certainly an indication of im­back, taking . the next five provement." decided advantage in most events in order. Freshman
meets. ''The strength that has
And pleased he should be, for Michael Shepardson won the
evolved in our li~hter weights has 
· the Irish grapplers s":'ept all 200-yard individual medley,
given us a defirute edge, particu­
three of thetr opponents m week­and another freshman, Wallyend dual meet action. the Irish Iru:ly a psychological one," he Daniels, took the one-metersrud.
opened with a 24-12 decision over diving event with 231.85 points. 
perennial-rival Marquette on "In the Millikin match, for After Casey's victory, last
Friday night at the ACC, and instance, our first four wins were year's most valuable swtmmer, then toppled Millikan, 22-15, aQd not regular three-point decisions. 
sophomore ) ohn Komora, took host Wabash, 28-11, in a Satur­Our lower weights wrestled so the lOO.yard freestyle, and Pat day afternoon triangualr meet. well that we got four-point deci­LaPlatney, also a sophomore,Team co-captams George sions in those matches--we were won the 200-yard backstroke. 
Gedney and Dave DiSabato were ahead 16-3 instead of 12-3. 
With just four events remain­3-0 on the weekend. Gedney won Those extra points were almost ing, the Irish had a slim lead,5-3 and 8-0 decisions over Mar­like winning an extra match.'' 
40-39.
quette and Millikin, and scored a The Irish will be riding a The Tartars took a third andfirst period fall at 1:06 against four-match winning streak mto three first-place finishes in theWabash. DiSabato took a 9-0 Wednesday's showdown with next three events to take a 55 · decision from Millikin and Indiana State. Their season dual 51 lead which set the stage for a notched pins against Marquette, meet mark now stands at 8-4, one very dramatic finish. 
at 7:10, and Wabash, at 3:11, the match better than last years final In the final event, the 400­latter pin coming after he had 8-5 mark. yard freestyle relay, the winneroutscored his beleaguered foe, would recetve seven points and 18-3. Those three wins upped the sec0nd place team, none. ItDiSabato's season record to 13-6, took a phenominal effort on the
NOTRE DAME 82, SOUTH CAROLINA 73
five of those losses coming in the 
part of the Wayne relay team tofirst two tournaments of the year South Carolina [731-Doyle 52-412, Winbush spell defeat for the Insh. Thewhen DiSabato was still battling 2o-o 4, Hordges 15-6 19, Graziano 0 o-o 0, 
Tartar's time of 3:15.0 estab­
Fredrick 9 2-2 20, Dunleavy 0 D-0 0,
weight standards. 
lished a new Rockne Memorial
Strickland 3o-o 6, Reynolds 4o-o 8, 1 2-2 4.
Dave Welsh, a 150-pound 3111-14 73. Pool record, beating the Irish junior, registered a 2-0 perfor­team by almost five seconds.
mance, commanding 6-5 and 10-4 Notre Dame [82]--Woolrldge 7 3-4 17, Coach Dennis Stark and hisdecisions over Marquette and Trlpucka 10 2-2 22, Lalmbeer 00-Q 0, Hanzlik tankers will hope to improve on
3 2·2 8, Branning 2 2·2 6, Mitchell 1 o-o 2,
Wabash. In the latter match Wilcox 0 D-0 0, Jackson 10 1-3 21, Flowers 3 their 1-2 record as they take to Dave broke a 4-4 second period o-o 6. 36 1D-13 82. 
the road this weekend. Theytie with a reversal and near fall will swim at Northern Illinois on
Halftime--Notre Dame 42, South Carolina
combination in the third stanza to Friday afternoon at 4:00, while
35. Fouled out--None. Technical--Strickland.
snare the victory. 
Total fouls--Notre Dame 15, South Carolina Bradley will host the IrishChris Favo, Bill Moore, and 15. A--11, 345. Saturday afternoon at 2:00. 
Classifieds 
Good luck Dave!
Notices 
Lost before X-mas break: a pair of Fast, accurate typing at home. Call woman's glasses In whitish case with 272-7866 after 5 p.m. Closeby blue, oranfle and brown flower design
and gold casp. If found please contact All OBUD people and anyone else Lisa at 1345. Interested In ~ettlng Involved pleaseattend an or~an zatlonal meeting Monday FOUND: retainer on sidewalk In front of 
7 p.m. It wII by fun!!! Breen-Phllllps. To claim, call 7401. 
SKI-Lessons now formin~ for all Inter-NO class ring found at Indian Creek 
ested ND·SMC students. or Information Service Plaza on the Ohio Turnpike. Call call Bob Ballard 272-7749. 1050 to Identify. 
Experienced t~~lst will do all types of typing. Call 2 -1401. 
For Rent 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Bedford For rent, second semester, large 2
288-2170. Hours: 8 AM to 5 PM 
bedroom duplex apartment In faculty
home, ~ood neighborhood, close In, stove BCAF Fashion Show tryouts postponed and re rig., fireplace, $185 and gas.for ONE day. New scheaule: 233·8773. Emcee tryouts--Tues., Jan. 23--7 PM Modeling Practices--Wed. & Thurs., Jan. 
2 rooms together. $45.00 near rides.
24 & 25--7 PM 233·1329.
Model tryouts--Fri., Jan. 26-·7 PM 
All t7touts held In BCAC ~nd floor LaFor une) Practices In aFortune Ballroom 
Wanted 
Lost&Found 
. 

Lost: Pair of nt~w blue suede ski gloves somewhere between D-2 and Sorln. Call Wanted: female roommate. Campus 
8518. View Apts. $90/month. Call 277-526 . 
Part Time Sales and MerchandisingOpportunity Looking for an opportuni~ to earn extra money while learning sa es skills? This opportunity may be ideally suited for you.
Well known consumer product manu­facturer with a wide varlet~ of name brand confectionary products sseeking a candidate who will work 10-15 hours perweek contacting on-campus and near campus retail outlets. 
Please exflressleour Interest by callingcollect 313-6144 6after 5:30. We are an EOM manufacturer 
Need 2 or 3 GA tlx to the Da~~ton B-ball 
6:30. Basement of Regina South. All
Wanted: female roommate, Campus game on Feb. 3. Call Mike, 889 • 
other Interested persons ENCOURAGED
VIew AWrtments, $90/month. Call Joan 
to attend.
at 283-989. Need 3 tlx for Dayton game. Call Cindy5762. Desperately Need!!! Urgent!Need ride to D.C., weekPnd of 
M. Chustak, Maryland game. Will share driving and 1need any UCLA tix. Call 4-4908. Thanks for babysitting for all the 
expenses. Help! ~!ants. We really appreciate It Love ya. Nancy 6786 our friends. 
Personals
For Sale ' 
Zelda Ray & Co. went out to dlnne' at Demcsey s Restaurant The walter was a It's great to be back! real east. They ordered Julien salads
Bl~, great speakers for sale. Call Bernie 
John M and aScoop of Ice cream. But then the~
33 2 or 3321. 
(Alias F.E.D.S., FCC, had to leave becaus!l of the Flood, wit Panama Red, MCP) their salad's wrapped in Reynolds wrap. They followed Gus to safety.
Tickets 
Sandy-­
The best birthday over! You may be Thanks 911 for Friday AND Saturday Need 1studePt or GA ticket for UCLA. old, but we still love you. nl~htsl These Snappers will pop corn Call 7409. The Girls wl h y'allanytlmell 
. 

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m .. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classilieds Monday through Friday. 10:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. All clao>ifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the ma1L 
. 

Need Mar¥1and B-ball tlx. Any number. KEITH HElL'S TRAINING STABLE Tim 288-2 73 
Horseback riding lessons-SMC-ND Qualified Instructors/English & Western
Desperat~eed 1student B-ball ticket Wll pay . Call Jim at 277-4617. 
Semester-11 week maxlmum-$100 O~anlzatlonal meetln\January 21st 
2: McCandless Plano oom
Unlverslt~ of Dayton vs. Notre Dam~:~ 
Additional Information-call Jo Hell­
basketba 1--2 GA's needed. Will pay cash 683-4467 
or trade student tickets for other games. Call1840. 
Bengal Bouts BoxlnN ol.ractlce starts Monday January 22, : , boxing room 
De~erately need Dayton BB tickets 
ACC Hockey Arena
stu ent or GA. Will pay good money.Call Larry 1205 
Mandatory meeting for St. Mary's Observer reporters. Wed. Jan. 24 at 

------~-----------------~-----~---------~ 
Monday, January 22, 1979 -page 8 
Bradshaw sparks Steeler victory as 'Terrible Tow-el' cops crow-n 

MIAMI (AP)-Terry Bradshaw fired four touchdown passes and shattered two Super Bowl passing records Sunday, leading the Pittsburgh Steeleres to their third National Footbal League championship in a 35-31 victory over the Dallas Cowboys. 
Bradshaw hit John Stallworth on touchdown pass plays of 28 and 75 yards, found Rocky Bleier with a 7-yard pitch and connected with Lynn Swann on an 18­yarder. Franco Harris added a 22-yard touchdown run as the Steelers came from behind, then had to fight off a late Dallas scoring spree for victory. 
Bradshaw, the NFL's most valuable player this season, passed for a career high 318 yards and smashed the super Bowl record of 250 yards, set 13 years ago in the first game of this series by Green Bay's Bart Starr. 
The Steelers and Cowboys dazzled the near-capacity crowd of 78,656 with a J?Ulsating first half that ended wtth Pittsburgh leading 21-14 and Bradshaw already in the Super Bowl record book with 253 yards in the air. 
Then, after the defenses 
Irish, Jackson can't miss in win 
by Ray 0 'Brien Sports Editor 
Tracy Jackson came off the bench and put on a shooting exhibition at the ACC Saturday, compiling 21 points as Notre Dame held off a stubborn South Carolina, 82-73. 
The Irish looked like they might have a vacation against the Gamecocks as they scored the first 10 points of the game. However, Frank McGuire's team would not lie down, as Zam Frederick took control, scoring eight points in a stretch where USC took the lead, 17-16, as Notre Dame cooperated with a poor shot selection. 
Tripucka and Jackson gave the Irish the edge throughout the half, connecting on a scintil­lating 12-15 first half shots, with Jackson's baskets coming from outside the perimeter. 
The Gamecocks got in last licks before intermission, scor-. ing three field ~oals as the result of two Rich Branning turnovers to cut the halftime lead to 42-35. 
Both teams exchanged bas­kets in the second half as South Carolina's leading scorer, Cedrick Hordges, came alive to compliment Fredrickson's hot hand. 
However, the inside-outside combination of Orlando W <'olridge and Jackson proved too much as the Irish coasted to their 11th victory of the year in 12 tries. 
''Defensively; we had trouble controling them, and it ended up two teams just trading baskets," offered Irish coach 
-Digger Phelps. "I am not satisfied with the way we played but w~ still won and that is the sign of a good team." McGuire was not fooled by the closeness of the score and insited that Notre Dame was more than just a good team. "I've seen most of the top teams play, and there's no doubt, Notre Dame is at the 
head of the pack." 68 percent for the game and 
Jackson was named the outrebounded the Irish, 22-20, game's most valuable player, in the losing cause. prompting McGuire to say, Frederick led the losers with "He's the best sixth man I've 20 points while Hordges contri­ever seen, a real blue chipper.'' buted 19 points and Mike Doyle 
The veteran coach continued, chipped in 12. ''Woolridge is unbelievable. Tripucka led all scorers with You don't know what he's going 22 markers, while Jackson fin­to do. He has moves that he ished the game on 10-12 from doesn't know about. Some­the floor and 21 points. times he doesn't know what to Woolridge's 15 second half do with himself because he's so points gave him 17 on the good." afternoon. 
''Then there is Tripucka, who The number one ranked Irish can shoot the lights out. He's will take on the Fordham Rams one of the best." Wednesday night at the ACC. 
South Carolina shot a torrid Tipoff is set for 8 p.m. 
ti~htened in the third quarter, Pittsburgh broke open the game in the fourth quarter with two touchdowns in 19 seconds. Harris tallied the first on a third-and-9 play from the 22. When Dallas fumbled the ensuing kickoff, Dennis Winston recovered for Pittsburgh and Bradshaw struck on the first play from scrimmage, hitting Swann in the back of the end zone. 
It was a brilliant personal accomplishment for Bradshaw, who survived years of booing and ridicule to emerge as the ml'lst valuable player of the Steelers' triumph. He had to battle a proud Dallas defense but left the computeriz,ed Cowboys folded, spindled and mutilated under an endless barrage that spread his passes all over the field. 
Bradshaw's aerial show never missed a beat -not even when Stallworth, who handled his first two TD passes, was forced out of the game because of leg cramps. Terry's show just changed em­phasis from one wide receiver to the other, and Swann, most valuable player of Super Bowl X when Pittsburgh beat Dallas 21-17, became Bradshaw's main man. 
But the Cowboys refused to let the Steelers run away with the title game even after Pittsburgh moved out to a 35-17 lead with 
6:51 to play.. The Cowboys scored one touchdown on Ros.er Staubach's 8-yard pass to Billy Joe DuPree with 2:2lleft after an 89-yard drive. Then they recovered ail onside kick, and Staubach took them in for another touchdown, passing 4 yards to Butch Johnson with 22 seconds left. 
Another onside kick was recovered by Pittsburgh with 17 seconds to play. 
Critics of the Super Bowl, who had complained that the series had produced boring football, were silenced Sunday by Pitts­burgh and Dallas, champions of the American and National con­ferences, respectively. By half­time, the two teams had ·traded five touchdowns and were moving so swiftly up and down the field that it often was difficult to keep track. 
Dallas took the opening kickoff and was moving smartly, with Tony Dorsett gaining 38 yards on three carries. But Drew Pearson fumbled on a reverse, and John Banaszak recovered for the Steelers at the Pittsburgh 47. Seven plays later, Pittsburgh was on the scoreboard with Brad­shaw's 28-yard pitch to Stall­worth, who caught the ball at the left edge of the end zone. 
Twice on third down plays, Bradshaw kept the drive going with passes, one of 12 yards to Stallworth on a third-and-nine, the other for 10 yards to Randy Grossman on third-and-ei12:ht. 
It was still 7-0 late in the ftrst quarter when Staubach con­nected on his own third-down play. Working from the Steelers' 39 on third-and-eight, he fought off a Pittsburgh bli:tz and hit Tony Hill at the 26. Hill turned left and danced down the sideline into the end zone for the tying touch­down, the first one scored against Pittsburgh in the first quarter ofa game this seas·on. 
Less than three minutes into the second period, Bradshaw fumbled the ball. He recovered on one bounce, but by then linebackers Thomas Henderson and Mike Hegman had hiiP sandwiched. As the Steelers quarterback went down, Hegman stripped the ball from him and went 37 yards for a Cowboys' touchdown. 
On the next series, working on a third-and-five situation at his own 25, Bradshaw hit Stallworth at the 35. The Steders flanker broke Aaron Kyle's tackle and, with the help of a block by Swann, was on his way to a 75-yard touchdown, tying the record for the longest Super Bowl pass play set by Johnny Unitas and John Mackey of Baltimore in 1971. 
Fourth-place Irish split 'Weekend series 
by Mark Perry . opportunities, but Rockwell did period, as Notre ·name scored net, and flicked a wrist shot Assistant Sports Editor a great job of goaltending.'' on its first shot of the game. past Rockwell to give the Irish Rockwell gave no hint ofwhat Tom Michalek took a pass from the lead at the 1: 15 mark.
Attempting to break out of a 
was to come early in the first Steve Schnieder in front of the [continued on page 7]
recent slump, the Notre Dame 
hockey team split its weekend 
series with the Huskies of Mich­
igan Tech at the ACC on Friday 
and Saturday. 

Although the Irish played 
well on both nights, some lucky 
bounces helped Tech take the 
opener, 5-3. The Irish bounced 
b~ck on Saturday to post a 5-4 
Wlfi. 

The split left the Irish in a tie for fourth place with Wisconsin in the WCHA, four points behind the league leader, Minnesota. 
Fridav: Rockwell stars for Tech 
John Rockwell, a senior goal­
tender for Tech, was outstand­
ing in holding a third P.eriod 
charge by the Irish, while his 
teammates scored three goals 
in a 5-3 Tech win. 

The Irish, who went into the final stanza leading 3· 2, fired 21 shots at Rockwell in that period, but could not fmd ~opening. 
''We outplayed tbem,'' said Irish coach Lefty Smith, "but we couldn't put anythinf on the 
_board. We had al those 

Notre Dame goalie Dave Laurion suffered a shoulder injury Fnday, then bounced back on Saturday to lead the Irish to victory. [photo by john Macor] 







