... 
'.' 
j ~ 
, , , World Series-page 8 

VOL. XIV, NO. 31 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
CLC asks for women residents in new dorm 
by Michael Onu(rak 
Senior Copy Editor 
The CaiJlpus Life Council last night passed a resolution sub­mitted by Keenan rector Fr. Richard Conyers calling for the administration to house women in the two new student dormi­tories being constructed in be-· tween the library and the tow­ers. The proposal, which also recommended the towers re­main male resident halls, was passed to ''facilitate the "in­crease of the female population with the least amount of diffi­culty and trauma of transition.'' 
The resolution was generated by the presentation of a docu­ment drawn up by women who are members of the Hall Presi­dent's Council. The document, which has been circulated to other dorms through the re­mainder of the HPC, lists several reasons why the new fa·.ilities should be residences tor women. Amon~ the reasens listed were secunty, potential social implications, and ex­pense. 
Breen•Phillips Hall President Dale Robinson described the document as a "communicative device for eventual affirmative action" regarding the two new dorms. The document is the result ofa campJJs-wide rumour which, if it were found to be factual, would place men in the new dorms and women in Flanner Hall. 
Planner Hall President Don Ciancio said last night that he is aware of the rumour and "doesn't like it." 
"If this rumour does turn out to be fact I think the administra­tion will have ignored the feelings of the men ofFlanner. _ Our hall government has put a lot of time and money into the hall and we feel our facilities are second to none. We have the best party room on campus, a super game room and a weight room; all of which I would hate to give up,'' Ciancio said. 
''Besides these tangibie things, I think. our hall is beginning to develop a tradition which will someday rival those of older dorms on the South Quad. Jf we all have to pack up and leave next year that tradi­tion will be destroyed.'' Cian­cio added that he had first heard of the rumour from HPC members and Flanner rector Bro. Peter Mahoney. 
According to several sources the rumour has spread from a conversation between HPC cha­irman Ellen Dorney and Univer­sity President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. The rumour sug­gests that in order to cur down on maintenance costs ln the towers, women would be hous­ed in Flanner and men· in the new dorms. At press time last night Hesburgh could not be reached and Dorney refused comment. 
According to Assistant Vice­President for Student Affairs Fr. Gregory Green no official decision regarding the new dorms has been made as yet. Green did admit, however, that the dorms are currently being 

· designed as unisex facilities. ''The new dorms are being built in such a way so they may house either men or women depending on the administra­
. tion's decision,'~ Green said. That decision should come some time after the upcoming 
[continued on page 4 ] ' 
Observer analysis 

Experts disagree on gold trends 
by Mary Fran Callahan 
In times of economic bleak­ness, gold apparently shines all the bnghter. After gold reached $444 an ounce last week cam­pus experts disagre~d . on what this rapid increase mdtcates. 
''The price of gold was ftxed for years at $.35 an ounce," commented Vincent DeSantis, professor of History, "until we went off the gold st~nd?-rd in the thirties and agam m the seventies. When nations went off the standard, fluctuations began."

However, never before has the price of gold scaled the awesome peaks reflected in .last week's ftgure. "The. pric~ ts a reflection of uncertamty m the world '' observed Bernard Kil­bride,' professor ?f F~?ance &. Business Economtcs. The for­eigners see the malaise of the domestic situation and are con-I cerned." · 
And why does concern ! 
promgt binges of gold purchas­mg? ffering the anthropol?gi­cal perspective on the prectous metal, Leo Despres, chairman of Sociology and' Anthropology, commented. ''Over the centur­ies, due to its scarcity and ornamental value, gold has held its value. Given that fact, peo~;>le think it will continue to retam its value." 
Despres compared gold to diamonds. Both have been used traditionally for quality iewelry; peoP.le invest. i!J them for thetr prectous qualmes. • 
''Everybod}" s rushing into l!old " Kilbride commented, Rpanicularly small investors. The price will go back." 
ManY. small investors un­doubtealy turn to _large c<?rpora­tions for financtal advice. A corporate executive from Merril Lynch, Inc.--a national stock­broker which de:ils with gold investments--said he wouldn't 

buy gold. "Personally, I would 1 gold. 

NEW YORK (AP) -The government's plan to cut infla­tion and support the dollar did what it was meant to yesterday, as the dollar rose and gold prices fell. But stock prices fell amid fears that the plan means higher interest rates. 
Economists generally reacted favorably to the program anno­unced Saturday; but many said it could push the United States deeper into a recession. Some said it might not be strong enough to cure the dollar's chronic slide. 
A trader on the New York Commodity Exchange, the na­tion's largest market for gold futures contracts, said the pro­gram "doesn't look like a longterm solution" although "it wilJ have a short-term 
consider it to be an extremely trecherous investment. Those that buy it with the intention of selling It for a quick profit stand to lose. However, . this is not necessarily company' policy.'' 
A Sept. 23 New York Times article speculated that the rapid increase of gold prices may be .likened to the economic atmos­phere prior to the Crash of '29. However, DeSantis did not view the current gold situation as a prelude to depression. 
"People are buying gold as they mil?ht buy wheat, bananas or oil. It s just another commod­ity. Yet, a bar of gold is viewed as havin? more Jntrinsic value than some: bushel of wheat." 
The Merril Lynch executive disagreed, "The country's eco­nomy is clearly in a crists state. Gold is mirroring it.'' . 
One thing is certain. The darker th<; .economy g~ts, the more enttcmg the ghtter of 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9,1979 
control of the money supply. The actions. are desi~ned to effect.'' Prices of silver, grain slow economic expanston and 
' and soybean futures fell on inflation by making it more commodity markets in reaction 1 difficult for ~anks to lend and to the actions by the Federal 1 more expenstve for people to Reserve. borrow. In an unusual Saturday night-The mov~s sent the do~lar ~p news conference, Federal Re-strongly 10 early trad10g 10 serve Chairman Paul R. Volcker Europe yesterday and the surge announced a 1 percent increase held thro~gh the d~y. in the discount rate-the rate at Gold pnces, wh1eh tend to which member banks borrow move in the opposite direction money from the central bank. . as the dollar, .closed at $374 a The discount rate now is .ar a troy ounce 1~ London . and record 12percent. The Fed also _$372.50 in Zunch. On Fnday, increased the amount of reserv-~old closed at $385.50 an ounce es member banks must keep m both cities after hitting a midday record of$444 Tuesday. 
.Hesb·urgh reaffirms N.D. tenure rules, criteria 
by Dan Letcher Senior StaffReporter 
University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh told the Notre Dame faculty yesterday in Washington Hall that there have been no tenure rule changes. 
During his annual report, Hesburgh said that the. rules and 
criteria are well spelle9 out in the facu.lty ~andbook this s~mester 
and remain unchanged. Tenure· cnte!ta --and, specifically, , standards used in judging research achievements among fac.ulty · members --has been a major topic of concern to the faculty smce . early last year. _ . . 
Hesburgh said the appointment stage of the tenu~e process i::. the 
most important part of the tenure process. He adv1sed that careful 
considerations be taken at the appointment stage. 
''Ifsomeone is appointe~ and it Is w~ong, this is where thing~ go 
haywire;" Hesburgh satd. Accord10g .to Hesburgh, .teach~ng, 
research and service are the three most rmportant constder~uons 
made for tenure. "Teaching is the most important area but tf the 
University is to achieve "e:xcellence" then members of the 
commumty must themselves be exce)lent,'' Heiurgh .stated. 
He informed the 200 faculty members pres~nt o_f h1s. greatest 
goal, "I would like to help create a great Catholic umverstty known 
for its' academic excellence." 

fn today's world, the Catholic university is the exceptiom rather 
than the rule Hesburgh said. He went on to cite the world-wide 
decline of Catholic institutions for higher learning. 
Hesburgh explained that Notre Dame is aspiring to become a 
. . [continued on page 5 ] 
-----------l 

,
,
, 
,r 
, 


News in brief 
Carter designates 
Leif Erickson Day 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -The president of the Leif Ericson Society says he thinks "eventually they'll do away with Columbus Day." "You can't have two guys discovering the same thing," insists Ivar Christensen, who says he received a proclamation from President Carter last week designating thts Tuesday as Leif Ericson Day. "I was surprized how much the president really knew about our Vikmg hero,'' Christensen said. "It was the first time we've had some recognition from the top.'' 

Youth suffers critical injury 
1 


r· during charity conce.rt 
' 
ELIZABETH, N.J. (AP)-A 16-year-old youth was in critical condition yesterday with a stab wound he suffered after ·'bedlam'' broke out among bottle throwing youths during a charity rock concert. Thirty-seven people were arrested following the violence Sunday. The disturbance occurred at Williams Field shortly after a concert to benefit cerebral palsy victims got under way and reached a peak after 30 police officers attempted to clear the field. Seven officers were injured, none seriously. Mother pleads insanity in children 's murders SEA'ffi..E (AP)-A 25-year-old woman threw her two young sons to their deaths from the Pasco-Kennewick Bridge into the icy Columbia River Feb. 5 in an effort to save their souls, her lawyer told a jury yesterday. Tanya Adams of Pasco cried as J.D. Evans described opening statements to the King County Superior Court jury how the "insane and delusional" woman killed her children. Mrs. Adams is charged with first-degree murder in the deaths of her sons, Ryan, 2112, and Christopher, 1Vz. The double-murder trial was moved from Pasco to Seattle because of extensive publicity. He said she"first had decided to freeze them (the boys) in the snow outside but one of the boys started crying.'' Mrs. Adams pleaded innocent by reason of insanity. Weather Blustery and unseasonably cold with a 50 percent chance of showers and possibly a thunderstorm today. Highs in the low 50s. Variable cloudiness, breezy· and cold with a chance of a few showers toni~ht and tomorrow. Lows tonight in the mid to upper 30s. Highs tomorrow around 5U.  
'CamP-_u_s__  
noon, NOONT ALK, dr dean a. porter speaking on the friends of the snite museum of art, ART GALLERY. 3:30p.m., COMPUTER MINI-COURSE, pl-1, 115 CCMB. 4 p.m., SOCCER, nd vs. valparaiso, STEPHAN CENTER FIEI.D. 4 :30 p.m., SEMINAR. "molecular mechanis.ms of bl.ood coagulation and fibrinolysis", by prof. franos castellmo, GALVIN AUD. 6 :30 p.m MEETING, alpha phi omega, ZAHM BASE­MENT. 7 and 9 p.m .. FILM, "south africa; the fruit of fear", HAYES-HEALY AlJD., free. 7 and 9 p.m .. FILM. "south· africa; one natton two nationalisms", CAJ{ROLL SMC, free. 7 and 10:30 p.m., FILM, "barry lyndon", ENGR AUD. $1. 7 :W p.m 1\IEETING, faculty senate, 202 C.C.E. H p.m. PRAYER MEETING. at MARY'S SOLITUDE. H p.m., ND·SI\1C THEATRE, "hamlet", WASHINGTON HALL, tix $3 and $4. H p.m., LECTURE, betty williams 1976 nobel peace prize recipient, CARROLL HALL SMC. H p.m., LECTURE, changing identities of a frontier hero: william henry harrison", by prof. robert gunderson, GALVIN AUD.  

9 p.m., GAME NIGHT, at the Nazz 
'o.' I ' ,I -,~' , ' •';I·:,I:'.· 
by Tom Koegel 
Notre Dame Student Legal Services has begun another year of legal aid to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, the first year with funding from Student Government. 
Kathleen Kearney, Student Legal Services Division Direct­or, noted that ''The usual cases we handle are iandlord-tenant problems, traffic accidents, and 

· small-claims court cases.'' There is a financial need restriction for eligibility, but 
Texas Oub. schedules event 
Texas Club members who want to go to the Texas-Okla­homa football game Saturday in Dallas must contact Roman Macia at 3 7 46 by tomorrow afternoon. Total cost of this trip is $300. This includes round­trip airfare, hotel room for one night at the Hr.att Regency, pre-game cocktail party at the Fairmont and game ticket. First five people bringing the money to Macia get to go. Money is due at 383 Dillon. 

The Observer. Night Editor: Rod Beard Asst. Night Editor: Bill Kee­nan, Cindy Kliros, Ryan "no doz" Ver Berkmoes Copy Editor: Tom Jackson News Editor: Mark Rust Sports Layout: Beth Huff­man Sports Copy Editor: Mike Ortman Typists: Mary Beth Buda, Paula Shea, Kate Huffman, Am)' Peczkowski, Beth Huffman EMT:Carrie Britt Proofreader: Mark Rust ND Day Editor:Mary Beth Moran SMC Day Editor: Peggy Schneeman .(l.d Design: David E. Wood, Flo O'Connell Photographer: Greg Maurer The Observer [USPS 5!11 920[ Is ;wblished Monday through Friday 11­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is publishld by the students of Notre Damt and Saint Mary's College. Subscrlptillls lillY be purchased for S20 per yur [$11 per semester[ from The Observer. P.O. box 0. Notre Damt, Indiana 46556. Sacand class ~· paid, Notre Damt, In­diana . The Observer is 1 mtmber of the Associated Pms. All l"ltJflduc1lln rights are mervtd. Hnitstyles by -719 Lynn u Student Speci~l  
Haircuts 15~00 Perms 117.50  
2717 ffiishawaka Ave 289-3556  

almost all qualify. The only vther qualification is that those applying sign a release form. 
All cases are handled by second and third year law students in the Notre Dame Law School, and are supervised by a member of the Indiana Bar, ] ohn Ennis, a Notie Dame Law graduate. Under Indiana law, the law students have the power of an attorney when supervised by a member of the bar, so they are protected by law from being forced to reveal anything a student client has told them, under the attorney­client privilege. 
''We are for the most part the same as attorneys,'' said Kearney. "We have even ta:ken out malpractice insur­ance, although we hope we won't need it." 
The Student Legal Service is just one of the divisions of the Notre Dame Legal Aid and Defender Association,in which Notre Dame Law students work in various communities to get experience in the legal profes­sion, and class credit also. 
It is very simple for a student to get aid from Student Legal Services. When a student 



Erratum 
Due to an editing error, The Observer incorrectly spelled the name of Saint Mary's Dean of Students Kathleen Rice in yes­terday's edition. Also incorrect 
was  the  name  of  the  new  
addition  to  the  engineering  
building.  The caption beneath  

yesterday's picture should have read "Fitzpatrick," not "Fitz­gerald." 
applies for help in the ND-SLS 
office, a student intern will take all the information on the case, will give counsel, and if neces­sary research the problem for precedent. If the case actually goes to court, the intern will present the case in court, with the assistance of the supervis­ing attorney. 
One of the few types of cases 

" that Student Legal Services cannot handle is any sort of fee-generating case, where an attorney would normally get a portion of a settlement for his 
[continued on page 4 ] 

Furuhashi announces MBA stats 
The Master's in Business Ad­ministration (MBA) program at the University of Notre Dame has enrolled 172 students this fall, according to Usaku Furu­hashi, associate dean of the College of Business Admini­stration. This figure includes 84 first-year and 65 second-year students as well as 23 students in the combined MBA-JD pro­gram with the Law School. 
Furuhashi said 18 of the second-year students were spending the fall semester in England in the University's MBA London Program, headed by Dr. James F. Gaertner. 

Ninety-nine undergraduate in­stitutions, 28 states and 11 foreign countries are represent­ed, with foreign students com­prising 15 percent of the stu­dent body. Twenty-two per cent ofthe students are women. 

'•' 
...-----­

Tuesday, October 9, 1979 -page 2' 

ND Student Legal Services receives funds from Student Government 
-


The Observer On controversial issues 


Pope reaffirtns traditional stands 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The American people -starving for simple truths and spiritual her­oes -will miss Pope John Paul 
II. 
But in his absence, the debates he joined on his Ameri­can tour will rage, almost certainly unabated by his un­yielding endorsements of the traditions of the Roman Catho­lic Church. 
While captivating millions with his love and his soft-spok­en charm, the Pope was staunch in opposition to specialchanges that have changed Catholic practice, if not policy, in the United States. 
Birth control, divorce and the role of women in his church are touchy issues. on which the Pope showed no inclination toward change. 
The Catholic ban on birth control is almost certainly the most widely disregarded of its prece.r.ts in the United States.· 
Cehbacy is a difficult remedy for many Catholics. An Associa­ted Press-NBC News poll indi­cates that 76 percent of the nation's 49-million Catholics believe one can use artificial methods of birth control -the pill, or contraceptive devices ­and still be a good Catholic. 
This widespread violation may appear minor, but it is symptomatic of a steady erosion in active support of Christian­ity's oldest church. 
The ban on divorce is another devisive church dictum that causes anguish to practicing Catholics. The AP-NBC poll, r.o-:tducted in late September, irdicates that 63 percent of all Catholics believe in divorce, even where children are invol­ved. The polling shows Ameri­can Catholics believe by a 53 percent to -40 percent margin that priests should be allowed to marry. 
But the thorniest and most volatile of the iss~s facing the including the priesthood. Catholic Church in 'tlte United Many Americans will treas­States is the secondary role ure the small, special moments accorded women in church acti­-his pauses to greet the vities.· . demandtng throngs, his exube-·


lJ.S. Catholics are evenly rant affection for the handicap­splu on the question of women ped, his embracing love of priests. Forty-six percent favor children. a shift in church policy while 48 But the affection the United 
" ...76 percent of the nation's 49-million 
Catholics believe one can use artificial methods 
of birth control or contraceptive devices, ... '' 
percent are opposed, a statist­States feels for the leader of the tcally insignificant margin. world's Catholics is not likely to Thus, nothing could have ease the conscience of the been more dramttic within U.S. f young Catholic wife who wants 
,
Catholic circles than the unex­to work a few years before 
,
pected challenge to Pope John starting a family, or that of the 
,
Paul II, by a ranking American priest who unhappily fell in 
.,
nun, that he admit women into love, or of the nun who yearns 
,
all ministries of the church, to become a priest. 
I 1 
SMC Student Assembly allots student activities funds 
Chemical Society were also
by Mary Kay Leydon 

disappointed with the results of 
The allocation for campus the allocations. Jissica Benett, clubs and organizations made the club's vice-president said, by the Saint Mary's Student ''The amount of money is not Assembly Sunday night were enough to fund the activities of greeted yesterday with mixed our club." Because many em~tions by the various organi­chemical corporations are not zations. within the immediate vicinity, 
Most of the representatives more money is needed to travel said that the method of alloca­to these corporations, she said. tions were fair; however some The club will also appeal the clubs felt that the funds given dicision. were insufficient for achieving The Neighborhood Roots Or­their goals. ganization was also not pleased 
The SMC Sociology Club was with the decision. They were, disappointed by the allocation. however, able to tap alternative Margaret Dimond, an officer of sources of income. the club, said, "WE minimized Sheila Wixtead, the Treasurer the burget and requested exact­of the Student Assembly said, ly what we needed; we will "If the organizations were not appeal the dicision.'' happy with the money allocated 
The members of the SMC to them, their appeals would be 
Risking financial disaster 
ISO carries .on with activities 
By Kathryn Casey said, and there is no reason for 

panic. He said that if the ISO In spite · of possible financial can pose a convincing argument · disaster, the International Stu-for an increase in funds, the dents Org_anization here on Board of Commissioners can campus will carry on with two alter the budget. activities within the next two Roche said that the date for weeks. the second hearing is tentative, 
According to Fr. Thomas but should be held sometime Tallarida, director of the ISO, next week.· these two activities alone will · The first of the two ISO deplete the $200 which Student sponsored activities will be a Government has allotted to the picnic held tomorrow from 5 ISO for its year's expenses. p.m. to 9 p.m. at the home of "Money will disappear very Notre Dame's President of the quickly in activities that con-Host Family Association. The cern not just foreign students picnic will enable foreign stu­but students on campus as dents representing 50 countries well," Tallarida said. to becone acquainted with one 
Tallarida has submitted an another and with Notre Dame appeal to the Board of Commi-students who have studied a­ssioners requesting more rnon-broad through programs spon­ey. He explained that the ISO sored by the University or any has over 380 members, many of other academic institution. whose activities fees are being Tallarida expressed his hope spent on projects with which that the picmcs will discourage they are not involved. Last year foreign students from , falling the ISO received $1500 from the into cliques. He said that student government to-sponsor American students who have cultural activities for foreign studied abroad can understand 
students. The ISO does not and help with transitional prob-receive money from the Univer-Iems of foreign students. 
sity, Tallarida pointed out. The second activity will be a According to Student Body traditional Chinese musical pre-President Bill Roche, the bud-sented by the Youth Goodwill get hearings are a two-step Mission of the Republic of process whtch allows for chan-I China. Composed of 16 college ge. After the ftrst draft is · stuClents, it will perform in published, students have the Washington Hall on October 15 opportunity to voice their opin-as part of a 50-day tour of the 
ions. Last week's budget US proposal is ~entative. Roche Th~ drama will begin with 
"Drum Dances" featuring sev­en drums. The students from Taiwan will perform the Surf­riding drum dance, the Flower Drum Dance ofFeng Yang, and the Peaceful Drum Dance. 
The group appeared here in 1977 as part of the International Festival and is sponsored this year by the Taiwan Television Company. Admission to the performance is free. 
Student Activities will sponsor 'a dinner for the Youth Goodwill Mission at the Ramada Inn. The reception in LaFortune Student Center after the show , open to all Notre Dame students will be at the expnese of the ISO. The ISO will also pay for the picnic tomorrow. 


Players need volunteers 
The Notre Dame Student Play­ers are. lookmg for individuals interested in becoming involved in their fall productioi? of ''Stopthe World, I Want to Get<!lff!" 
Especially needed are volun­teers to aid with lighting, scene painting and publicity. No experience is necessary. Inter­ested persons should contact the Student Union, on the second floor of LaFortune. 
------------------~~·~·C3~%~~~cc~~~~~------~~=-·~··~·~~-~'"~·~M·~~~,~·~-~~ 
reviewed; however, the pur­pose of the help given is not to hand evcerything to the clubs, it is only to assist them.'' Hepresentattves of the Comm­
ittee for Alcohol Education Program ant the World Hunger Coalition were unavailable for comment. The Notre Dame­Saint Mary's Right to Life Organization declined to com­ment. 

Theater group adds Hamlet performances 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theater announces two add­itional performances of Hamlet due to popular demand. The extended run now includes performances tonight and to­morrow, as well as the 'Thurs­day, Friday and Saturday pre­viously scheduled. 
Tickets are $4 for General Admission and $3 for students, faculty and staff. Performances begin at 8 p.m., except on Thursday, when the show will begin at 8:15p.m. 
Hamlet, directed by Dr. Re­ginald F. Bain, was quite successful over the weekend. The production features cost­umes designed by Mrs. Diana Hawfield,' an expert in that field. Hawfield and her assist­ants have designed 44 costumes in all, giving the audience the flavor and color }of the Eliza­
bethan period. · 
Hawfield is currently in her fourth year of teaching in the Cooperative Department of Speech and Drama, and former­ly taught at Lynchburg College in Virginia after completing her 
' 

M.A. at U.N.C. at Chapel Hill. Mrs. Hawfield has also directed and . designed costumes for 
Sha~espeare's Comedy of Er­
rors and portrayed Big Mama in 
Cat on a Hot Tin Roof 
For ticket information and reservations, call 284-4176. 
ARWANQO'S BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP. 
1437 N. Ironwood Dr South Rend . 277-0615 Sue, Ruthie, Klm Armando--styliSt 
mon-wed-fti 8-5:30 tues-thuts 8-8 pm sat 8-2 by appt. only 
sat-no appt. needed 
~ 


need printing in a hurry? 100 -11 x 17 posters only $10.00 203 N. Main South Bend 289-6977 the wiz of theprintingbiz! 
World Hunger Coall.tl·on Faster·S' MOSS This wednesdoy and every wednesday 
12:15 Dillon Chapel 
E

veryone welcome... r 
.~l..-.-.w~s._....,.~~~~-~~~~~rr~...-~?~~~PNR~~·~er~BM...-~...-.~~s. 
r---~--~----------------~----~--·---~'~·----­
The Observer 

Tuesday, October 9, 1979 -page 4 

Volunteers support educations 
Editor's Note: This is the School in South Bend. program and a program ..set up second part in a three part The Primary Day School was to aid the Vietnamese Boat series. Part three wzll follow founded by Sr. Marita as a People. 
tomorrow. special educational institution MECHA stands for the org­by Kit Bernardi for children and adolescents anization entitled Movimiento­
who have failed in the South Estudiantil Chicanos de Aztlan. One of the main concerns of Bend Community School Sys­MECHA's activities involves the Volunteer Services is to tem. the tutoring of Mexican Ameri­Once they attend Sr. Marita's can children ~'having deficien­
educate. Many Saint Mary's 

school, the students are return­cies in school because they
and Notre Dame students parti­

ed to the community school speak predominantly Spanish,''
cipate in volunteer organiza­

system. This year there are 35 explained President Margarita
tions involved in one form of 

Garcia. MECHA provides di­
edut at ion or another. Some of students at the school ranging 
rect aid to chilaren at El
these groups include Alpha Phi from second grade through 
sixth. Campito, a day-care center and
Omega, The Primary Day 

President Dan Rauch descri­LA Casa Center, a school for
School, Head Start, The Neigh­

bed the 40 SMC/ND volunteers migrant workers' children.
borhood Study Help Program, 

service in the school as ''a big Botb schools are located in
MECHA and Big BrothersI 

Big Sisters. help" to students, "giving South Bend. Alpha Phi Omega is a nation­them a little bit of special Big Brothers/Big Sisters in­attention.'' The volunteers also volves a strictly one-to-one
al organization with chapters across the country. The co-ed aid Sr. Marita with mainten­relationship between a SMC/ 
ND student and child in South
fraternity is concerned in the ance of the school. 

Bend. The students visit their
South Bend area with the The Alpha Phi Omega organ­
r little brother or sister once a
fund-raising and publicity for ization holds a special fund 
week and .engage in an activity
Sister Manta's Primary Day raiser for the school -the "Ugly
r ofinterest to both. The purpose 
Man" on Campus Contest held 


r . Legal
r of the Big Brother/Big Stster • •
during An Tostal. The organiza­
r relationshtp is to "show needed
tion also raises funds through
r affiction," according to Presi­
, Engineering sponsoring Shakespeare read­dent Jim Martin, The organiza­(continued from page 2 1· rwo hundred cases, and that · 
, . ings on football weekends. Al-fee. They can however take number only ~eflects those
tion also sponsors _grown up

, hoopsters pha Phi Omega also aponsors these c~ses if they have already 
activities such as field 'trips, cases that involved some directthe Blood Drive on campus in parties, and sports tournaments been turned down by rwo legal aciton," said Kearney, ~ October. which "reinforce volunteer rel­attorneys . who is a third year law student. 
• Head Start is a child devel­ationships. '' ''Two years a~o we handled "Already this year we have
regtster 

opmental program designed to 
handled rwenty cases."

gtve pre-school children from 
This year for rhe first time,

The Engineering Basketball economically deprived back­
Student Legal Services received 

grounds the education} medical
League will have stgn-ups today 
funding from Student Govern­

care and social servtces they
through Friday, October 12. 1 
ment. The $1000 allotment will 

neea in order to begin schooL • • • CLC 
Those interested should submit 

Head Start also includes par­be used by the or£anization to 
a roster to the Dean's office in 

ental education. The president h'Np make the students of Notre
the Engineering building along member Erin O'Connor, the
of the organization is Rosemary [continued from page 11 Dame and Saint Mary's aware
with a one dollar registration committee will invite members
Calandra. of the Services' function on
' Board of Trustees meeting

f<"e. The Neighborhood Study of the Notre DamePsychological campus.
which will take place in rwo

The league is open to all Help Program (NSHP) involves Services to speak at their Any student interested in ob­
weeks.

students in the Colle~e of a one-to-one tutoring service for meeting next Monday night. can contact 

Engineering. For addttional information, contact Chris Gilson, 277-4692 or TomEtling, 1387. 
Thanks to you ... it works... for 
ALL 

OFUS 


Unitedway 
taining legal helpBill Roche, CLC chairman,

250 elementary children in thir­The committee hopes to gain Student Legal Services during
said if Van Wolvlear approves

teen centers in the South Bend insight to the ''drug problem'' their office hours, Mondaythe resolution he will present it
CommunitY.. The 200 SMqND through this campus organiza-through Friday, 11 a.m. to 2
tutors recetve transportation to before the Board along with . tion. 
p.m. Their office is located inand from the centers by the ideas in the HPC proposal. The next meeting of the CLC the basement of the Law Build­NSHP two rimes a week to With this in mind, the CLC sat will be held in Zahm Hall at ing, Room B12, and thrir phone''provide academic and emotio­up a committee consisting of 6A5 p.m. on November 5. 

number is 283-7795.

nal support for the kids," Grace Rector Bro. Charles according to John Sax, presi­Burke, Keenan Vice-Presideilt dent of the NSHP. Programs Mickey Turzai, Farley Presi­
the NSHP are involved in now dent Madeline Darrouzet, Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau 
include a Spanish bilingual Roche, and Robinson to study 
the problem further and submit ideas for Roche to present to 
ANY IAJORJ) 


I KNOW He IA/a/l!JN'T /A/ANT
the Board. Robinson and 
Me TO IA/OI?RY, BUT I cAN'T




Judo club 
Darrouzer are not CLC mem­
Hl3lP fT. KHOMt!NI'S fflJPIE 
bers. The CLC's Drug Awareness


kicks off 
Committee, formed at the last CLC meeting Sept. 24, aTso reported on their firsi: meeting.

tonight 
The committee, headed by Sor­in Rector Fr. David Porterfield,The Notre Dame Judo Club is met Sunday night and decided

continuing its self-defense 
their ultimate goal would be toclasses. Classes are held formulate some plausible solu­Tuesdays at 7 p.m. and Sun­tions for the drug problem atdays at 2p.m. in the old weight Notre Dame. According to a room on the third floor ot the statement read by committee

Rock. More information is available by attending tonight or calling Brian Woulfe at 8437. 
Head Start 






------------------to organize 
1 JUST FOR THE RECORD I 
1 fn the 100 Cent~r 1 program 
I offers 10% off on I Head Start will have an orien­tation meeting tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in LaFortune, Room 2D.

I I
EVERYTHING Anyone who signed up at1 with ID & coupon 1 Activities Night or is interested in volunteering should attend.
I RECORDS. TAPES. paraphernalia I If you have any questions, 
please call Rose at 4-1-4307. 

_The Observer_ 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either tnstitution. The news is reported as au.urately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opimon of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is avail­able to all members of the community, and . the free expression Of varying optntons on campus, through letters, is enco•Jraged. 

Editorial Board .and Department Managers 
Editonn-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ................. ,Mark Perry Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen ConnellyFditonal Editor............. .Ann Gales Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian Senror Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ....... .Steve Odland News Editor.............. ...... Mark Rust Production Manager .......Tim Sullivan News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager .........Bob Rudy SMC Executive Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Controller........... ....Kevin Manion SM C News Editor ........ Margie Brassil Circulation Manager ......Greg Hedges 
-------~-------~-~ 

l 
I 
The Observer 

Tuesday_, October 9, 1979 -page 5 

University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh yesterday re-affirmed the University's tenure policy, a matter which has been the subject of recent controversy. [Photo by Greg Maurer l 
• • . Hesburgh 
[continued from page 1 ] 
great Catholic university and that "the University has the chance to become what it wants to be.'' We have a lay board and·the spirit today which can lead us to becoming a great university, maybe the greatest in the world,'' Hesburgh asserted. 
To become a great university, one not only needs great spirit but great financial backing. According to Hesburgh, upon the completion of the "Campaign for Notre Dame'', the University will be about 12th in total endowments for private universities. 
He also said this is one reason Notre Dame will be able to compete with other schools for rdearchers. In the area of research, Hesburgh noted that the recently completed .1ddition to th-:: engineering building will enhance research ·ability . He also tc:d the audience that the last fout years has seen an increase in outside funding for educational and research programs. "We are 

-now receiving 9.3 million dollars for these programs; this is very good,'' Hesburgh said. 
Budgetary topics such as endowments, building costs and faculty salaries were spoken on by Hesburgh. ''I must say salaries are one of my primary concerns when looking at the budget,'' he said. 
When compared with nine other universities, Notre Dame's 60 percent salary change over the last seven years ranks second among major universities, according to Hesburgh. 
However, in the area of total compensation, Notre Dame's average of 26,500 ranks eighth. "We are catching up but not quickly enough," he said. . 
Although Notre Dame is not afinancialheaven.if it is to become a g-reat unive~sity, ''we mu~t become a sp_iritual oasis in a world that ts so often m moral and mtellectual disarray.'' 
Hesburgh defined a great Catholic university as a ''friendly crossroads" where all men may meet and discuss the problemsof our time in friendly dialogue. _ 
A great university -must be "closed to none and open to all," Hesburgh said. 
He cited statistics which showed that some but not great progress has been made in the hiring of women and special minority groups. According to Hesburgh limited pools to draw from is the main reason that only small gains have been made. 
Hesburgh also spoke of his recent chairmanships on federal committees and announced that he will be serving as chairman of the newly formed national committee on immigration and refugees. Secretaries of labor, HEW and Commerce, Secretary of State and Senator Ted Kennedy will also serve on this committee. 
Weather fails to dampen spirits 


Oktoberfest proves successful 
by Cece Baliles 
This year's Saint· Mary's Oktoberfest and Biergarten, held outside for the first time, was very successful, despite the bad weather, according to Lisa Fulks, chairman of the commit­tee. 
Fulks was pleased that so many students showed up for the Biergarten. She commented that "the bad weather almost worked in our favor since the beer tent was very crowded. '' Next year she said she hopes to have two beer tents since It was so popular. The tents will be connected with music hooked up to each tent since "it was drfficult to hear the music sometimes through all of the noise," Fulks said. 
Fulks also remarked that the food tent attracted large crowds. This year students sold hot pretzels and other foods. 
There were no major prob­lems with security, accordmg to Fulks and Anthony Kovatch, the director of security at Saint Mary's. 
"A keg of beer was stolen, 
Hesburgh to 

speak 
University President Theodore Hesburgh will speak tonight in the Howard Hall chapel at 7 p.m. 
Senior trippers to meet 
Plans for the senior class trip ate finalized but there are a few reminders. First, proof of citizenship is necessary and seniors must have it with them on Travel Night. It can be one of the followin~ four docu­m~_nts: voter regrstration, birth certificate, passport or affidavit for proof of citizenship. 
Travel Night is Tuesday, Oct. 16 at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Theatre at Saint Mary's. Travel packets, _money packet~ and general mformatwn wrll be distriboted and T-shirts will be available at three dollars each. Following the Travel ·Night meeting is Acapulco Night at Senior Bar with special prices. 
and several people crawled into 

thing went according to plans.
the beer tent, but other than 

Fulks said that she hopes the
that there were no major inci­

Oktoberfest will be held outside 
dents," Fulks added. Kovatch 

in the future since ir more
commented that he thought 

closely resembles the one in
that the outdoor Biergarten was 
Munich. 
a "great idea" and that every-


TUESDAY October 91 19'79 7pm-3am 
®oMB AIR FO~CE) 
3Drafts 




Sl.OO 
Acareerin law.....: 
without law school. 
After just three months of study at The Institute for Paralegal Training in exciting Philadelphia, you can have a stimulating and rewarding career in law or business­without law school. 
As a lawyer's assistant you will be performing many of the duties traditionally handled only by attorneys. And at The Institute for Paralegal Training, you can pick one of seven different areas of law to study. Upon completion of your training, The Institute's unique Placement Service will find you a responsible and challenging job in a law firm, bank or corporation in the city of your choice. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training is the nation's first and most respected school for paralegal training. Since 1970, we've placed over 2,500 graduates in over 85 cities nationwide. 
If you're a senior of high academic standing and looking for an above average career, contact your Placement Office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on: 
Wed. Oct. 17,1979 
The ~ 

Institute , ~~ '• • 235 South 17th Street for ~~;~ • :.1 Philadelphia, PA 19103 Paralegal ~ ··--.· (215) 732-6600 Training® ••;,. 1 1 111 ~•1 
~·'"' ~·!i. A< -0035 
operated by Para-legal. Inc. 
Approved by the American Bar Association. 
UNITED WAY at N. D. 


100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 


10 

0 


AL BA BP CR CV 01 FA Fl FL GR HC HO KE LE LY MO PA SE SO ST WA ZA 

\ 

The Observer -Sports Tuesday, October 9, 1979-page 6 
I ) 

The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 
-·-----------­


RIVER CITY RECORDS 
nofth•tn lndl~n~'a l~tg•at r•cotd ~nd t~p• ••l•ctlon 
~nd conc•ft tlck•t h•~dqu~tt•ra 

Jl.OO OFFII 
any album or tap• (now rhn1 Oct. 31, limit 1 coupon per_person) 
•18,000 
6lbum1 and tap•• In atock 

• 
ND/snlC atud.nt ch•cka acc•pt•d fot up to 

120.00 ov•t putchaa• amo' !, ; 

• 
Op•n 10 to 10, 7 days Cl w••k 


Rlv•r City R•cords 50970 U.S. 31 North 3 mil•• north of campua 
277-4242 
~~~M-.U-~--·...........................~---...S~~--·1 

performances, and like catcher Orioles could take the series in 
Rick Dempsey who performs in five games, but will more likely
the Orioles' dugout, leading the stretch it to six. Baltimorians 
cheers of the fans along the will be eager for a sixth game to 
right field foul line, spelling out . show their support for the team 
0-R-I-0-L-E-S with his body. 
l which has recently been rumor­What we have here, not JUSt ed off to Washington with new we Oriole fans, or we Pirate owner Edward Bennett Wil­fans, or even we baseball fans, liams. Pittsbur...(what do you but we sports fans, are the call a person from Pittsburgh, amakings for the best World Pitssburghian or a Pittsbur-Series in recent memory. It . gher?) are in no danger of
doesn't have to go seven games 
~oosing their team, but they are 
to be great. Win or loose, both JUSt as hungry for the return of teams have done great things the World Series champion­for baseball during this era of I shin.

big heads, big bucks and big If this series fails to live up to cities. its billing, a lot of sports writers 
The way I see this, the will be eating crow. 

by Michael Molinelli 
ACROSS 34 Knowledge 51 Sailing 24 Sprees 1 Decant handed down vessel 25 Abstains 5 Rose oil 35 Musical 52 Despised from 
10 Chalcedony group 56 Unwrapped 27 "-of milk 14 Golliwogg 37 Accelerate 60 Be angry and honey" 15 "Inferno" (with "up") 63 Wheel hub 28 Speech 
author 38 Be sick 64 Literary sound 16 Musical 39 Ways collections 29 Deck of a 
group 41 Be indebted 65 Get away ship 17 Whack 42 Sgt. or cpl. from 31 Wear away 18 Dislocated 43 Something 66 Svelte 32 Stairway 20 Bank man of value 67 Relent post 22 Servitude 44 Arabian 68 Railway car 33 Ties the 23 Mountain gulf 69 Seasoning score 
ridge 45 Take one's 36 Utter 26 Bitter herb leave DOWN 39 Boat basin 27 Alligator 47 Spend· 1 Mail 40 Highly 
pears thrifts 2 Leer at regarded 30 Ancient 50 Four-in· 3 Russian 44 Old French 
ascetic hand river land units 4 Supplant 46 Reposing 5 Worshiped 48 Oklahoman
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


6 Greek 49 Spinning 
letter toy 7 Explosive 52 Fake 8 On the peak 53 Sugar 9 Officiated source 
at a bout 54 Egg-shaped 10 Pebbles 55 Spanish 11 Diva's painter 
forte 57 Okinawa 12 Circle capital 13 Be fool· 58 Maleficent 
lishly fond 59 Baseball's 19 Knightly Bucky combats 61 Pester for 21 Important payment period 62 Lyric poem 

PITTSBURGH CLUB 
Fall Break bus sign-ups 
Sunday, Oct. 14 7:00 pm 
LaFortune  
Buses will leave ND/SMC: SUnday, Oct. 21 Buses will return: SUnday, Oct. 28  9:00am 1:00pm  


• • • Orioles 
[wntmued from page 8 ] 
seasons with Baltimore, Weaver has managed the O's to six division cham~ionships and four World Senes, and he didn't always have the best talent money could buy (Take that George Steinbrenner!). He has also averaged over 100 wins a year during that span while 
Molarity 
having the free agent draft 
scratch from his rosters the 
likes of Don Baylor, Bobby 
Grieb, Reggie. Jackson and 
Mikt> Torr..-. 
These rwo teams have some­
thing that sports fans of any 
degree love-character. The 
Pirates and Orioles are 25-man 
families, and each one of them 
contributed significantly during 
the regular season. Neither 
team depends on one or rwo big 
hitters or super pitchers to do 
the job. Their character is highlighted by real people, not btg-headed athletes; like Willie Stargell, the father-figure, who passes out stars for standout 
.. Pirates 
(continued from page 8 l 
But, though the faces have changed, the situation is re­markably similar. 
In 1971, the Orioles strength came from pitcher's mound as they rode the arms of four 20-game winners. (You heard right -four on the same team in the same year!) Mike Cuellar, Pat Dobson, Dave McNally and Palmer rriade Orioles heavy favorites to whip the boys from 

Pittsburgh.  Some  were  even  
saying they  would  only  need  
four games.  
The  Pirates,  on  the  other  

hand, relied on the lumber. Clemente, Stargell, AI Oliver and Dave Cash had all done fantastic things with their bats that season and would have to continue to do so if the Pirates were to stand a chance of knocking off Baltimore. Incon­sistency on the mound looked to be Pittsburgh's biggest ob­stacle. · 
Well, to make a long story short, the Pirates hit the ball as expected, but much to the suprise ofeveryone --especially the Orioles --the Pittsburgh pitchers were more than equal to the task. Blass won rwo (including a 2-1 decision in game seven), Nelsoq Briles won another and Kison, a baby­faced reliever who had not seen that much time during the season, came on in the third inning of game three to pitch seven scoreless innings and get his first major league victory. 
And guess who's starting game one for the Pirates to­night? Yep --and he's still as baby-faced as ever. The only difference is that his arm and his mound savvy are eight years older. Oh, yes, and he's shaving now, too. 
I suppose now would be a good time to go over things like line-ups and batting averages but, why bother? The only people who read that kind of stuff are baseball purists and die-hard fans... 
Wich has been my point all ' along. This series isn't only for people who live in Baltimore or 
Pittsburgh. You don't have to read every page of every issue of The SjJorting News to get excired about this one. This serir.; is for everyone. It's like the pick-up softball games played after dipner at the annual company picnic. It doesn't really matter who wins or loses; it's just too much fun to miss. 

Unless, of course, you happen to be from Pittsburgh or Balti­more. Then the game takes on an added meaning. Then winning and losing is import­ant. Very much so. 
Obviously the Orioles are favored and they should be. They had the best record in baseball this year and their pitching staff recorded a most tmpressive ERA. 
In fact, some are saying the series won't go six games and I guess I'd have to agree... 
Because I think the Pirates ~e going to win it in five . 

Don't cloud the issue with all those statistics about which left-handed hitters can't hit right-hande6 pitchers or what­ever. When the Bucco Bats are boomin' it matters little who's on the mound. 
But just to be ·safe, you probably wouldn't want to bet on this series. On paper, the teams are too even; they match up too well. Besides, why sweat it out? Just sit back, ~rab a hunk of apple pie and enJOY. 
---~ 
a I 
The Observer-SportsBoard Tuesday, October 9, 1979-page7 

~ 
I 
I 
I 

.·.·,_·.________ .·.... l. 
,., 


!f,t. frisJ. "'"', t.,zd rea.mn to smzle after winninf!, 0n \'.1turday, but tbose smzles faded after /Ju ·.duy 's d· uhleheader luss tn Xavier. fpboto by Dave Rum.bach J 
Awesome Auburn tops Blue Division 
Aurburn University put on an top spot, despite its lack of The top finisher for the Irish 
awesome running display Fri­expenence. Unfortunately, the was junior Chuck Aragon,day, to capture the Blue Divi­top returnee from last year's clocking a time of 24:41, good sion championshif of the Notre team, Pat Sullivan, was having for the 37th spot in the field. Dame lnvttationa Cross Coun­troubles with his bad knee and "We didn't run well at all," try Tournament. The Tigers did not compete. said Piane. "It was an exper­accumulated only 34 points Auburn so dominated the iment. We won't know until 
from their top-five runners meet that its top-five runners later whether or not it wa-: a whirh proved to be three-times (those that contribute to the good move. We probabL needed 
better than the 114 points team point totals) all finished another race before the Invita­amassed by second-place fin­among the top 14. A total of tional to prepare. '' isher Illinois State. Defending 137 men completed the five­The Gold Division race also 
champion Michigan was third mile race, contributing to the proved to be quite one-sided. with a 134-point total. team scores of 21 schools. Wisconsin-LaCrosse finished 
Meanwhile, the Notre Dame Auburn's Tom Graves won first with 61 points, well ahead team finished a disappointing the race with a time of 23:35. of second place Marquette and 13th at 307, in this, the first The number 3, 6, 9 and 14 third place Pittsburgh 0ohns­meet of the season for the Irish. finishers were also from the town). Dan Erdel of Northern Coach Joe Piane had hoped his Southeast Conference power Illinois finished first in the squad would challenge for the house. division with a time of 24:18. 

Diamond fllen suffer _long ride horpe 
by Bzll Marquard then absorbed a twin-walloping
Sports Wn.ter 

at the hands of Xavier on Sunday, losing 9-3 and 3-1. 
"Xavier was a testing accept, but losses on the road ground--we started a freshman generally feel a little worse. and a sophomore pitcher. ~e The more discouraging the have to look at our prospects In defeat, the longer the ride a competitive situation--when home seems. spring comes, it's too late," "It was a long ridt". home remarks Kelly.from Xavier Sunday,''conceded "In fact, after that first loss, Notre Dame baseb<d I coach we rebounded in the second 
Tom Kelly. "It gave us a lot o[ game to some degree.'' time to play with statistics and Freshman hurler Greg ) aun look at the scorebook.'' allowed only four Xavier hns in 
Flashing a crumbled note­the nightcap, but two of those book page with numhns <;crib­were home runs. bled on it, Kell) remarked, ''That just shows that one ''Look at these numbns. In 32 minor mental error here and innings over the weekend, we there can make a big differ­had 19 hits to our opponents 32, ence," said Kelly. but we only struck out 10 times. And it is those minor mental 
By the same token, of the 19 mistakes both on the mound batters on our team who walked and at the plate which Kelly only four scored, while five of hopes to correct during this last 12, almost 50 percent, of our week of fall practice. opponents scored.'' "We must w'ork on mental 
"What this all points to is a consistency and concentration. lack of concentration, both at Situations will be.important this the plate and on the mound,·' week. For instance, standing at explains the fifth-vear coach. the plate with a 2-0 count, as "We're hitting the ball, but we opposed to. 1-2 '· is an entirely 
dtfferent sttuattoh and would A loss is always tough to 
must be hitting some bad dictate a change in the way thepitches,,.: causing pop-ups or batter views the pitch.''

easy grounders. By the same The Irish have 1 p.m. hometoken, our pitchers must work doubleheaders against Springon every pitch, knowing where Arbor on Friday and Illinoisto put it in the plate depending State on Saturday to 1 lose outon the situation. 

their autumn slate. 
Notre Dame's fall baseball "This weekend will make a 
record dipped to 6-4 over the big psychological difference for 

weekend, as the Irish split a us,' comments Kel!l w:1rily. 

, two-game series with Bradley, ''A couple more losses will lo~ing_ Friday afternoon 5-l and 
make the winter sel'lr just a clmchmg Saturday morning's little longer." 
'71 rematch 

Orioles, Pirates tangle in fall classic 

Flanagan, Kison 
• • Frank
Michael 

m sertes opener 
LaGrottaOrtman 

BALTIMORE (AP) · A week ago, Jim Palmer suggested that southpaw Mike Flanagan, Baltimore's biggest 
Hot dogs, apple pie, ChevyLet 's stop the reminiscing,· 
winner, ought to be the Onoles' 
opening pitcher in the American League playoffs. 
Earl Weaver using managerial 
and a Pittsburgh series winWeaver 's got it this time 
perogative, filed that idea away and Hey baseball fans, look at this. For the first time in eight 
Give Mom a call and tell her to get an apple pie in the oven. years, we have the two best teams in the sport going at it for 
handed the baseball to Palmer in­
stead. · 

Then grah your flag, jump into your Chevrolet and head on all the marbles. The last time the sport's best two records 
out to the ol' ball yard. met in the fall classic was in 1971 when these same two 
Now, with the. Oriotes opening the 
World Series against Pittsburgh 
But you better hurry or you'll miss the National Anthem. teams scratched and clawed for seven games with the 
Tuesday night, Palmer's advice wtll 
It's the World Series·· and this year we got lucky. underdog Pirates taking it. 
be followed and Flanagan will be 
This year we've got a rea/World Series; one that's appeal is So much for reminiscing, and on the same note, scratch that 
the Baltimore starter. The fact that 
not. limited to Hollywood's swingers or New York's high bit about the same two teams. The organizations are the 
the reportS from Oriole scouts Jim 
SOC1ety. same but the players are almost entirely different. Sure, it's 
Russo and Bill Werid emphasized the 
This r.ear Reggie]ackson and the Big Blue Dodger in the easy to compare, but this is 1979, not 1971. What happened 
Pirates' left-handed hitters was, of 
Sky wdl all be sitting in the bleachers. (It's $17 a ticket then will have little bearing on what happens this year. 
course, purely coincicknraL 

Reggie. That sure is a lot of candy bars, huh?) The Orioles combined baseball's best pttching staff with a 
Weaver hopes Flanagan, the top~. 
Thts year there's no controversy, no inflated egos, no locker strong bench and timely hitting as they march to a 102-win 
winner in the majors wHh 23 victories 
room brawls. this season, can .Reutralize Pitts· 
This year it's baseball for baseball's sake. The best of both burgh's Dave Parker, Willie Stargell
season, just four more than their series opponels. At the leagues with classic confrontations between great pitchingsame time, the Pirates combined as awesNN· ,lllection of 

and Omar Moreno, all left-handed 
and even better hitting.
hitters with an equally strong bench and timely pitching as 

hitters and all vital parts of the Pirate 
This year it's Pittsburgh versus Baltimore •• the best-of­they squeaked past Montreal. . 
attack. 
seven for all the money.
You can argue ·until the tulips com~· up which is more 

With Flanagan on the mound, 
And you dort't want to miss an inning.
important, hitting or pitching, and there's plenty of evidence 

Pittsburgh Manager Chuck Tanner 
It's a rematch of the 1971 series when the Pirates, heavyto back both arguments. But hey, this is the World Series, 
will switch two other starters to add 
underdogs, won it inseven as they relied on the arm of Stevenot a 162-game marathon where only the fittest survive. It 
right-handed bats to his lineup. 

Blass.,. the bat of Roberto Clemente an~ the brains ofmay sound like a cop-out, but anythmg can happen. 
Rookie Steve Nicosia will catch in 
manager Vanny .:Vlurraugh.. Now, only etght years later,The biggest differences between these two dubs are the 
place of lefty-swinging Ed Ott and 
Murtaugh and Clemente have passed away and Blass ismanagers. It boils down to true greatness against simple 
veteran Bill Robinson wiiJ play left 
selling high school yearbooks in Pittsburgh.
mediocrity (at best). · . 
field. . 

:In fact, the only remnants of either club's last World Series One publicist far closer to the Pirates than I, admttted th:u~ 
The Pirates' starting pitchedn the 
appearance are Willie Stargell, Manny Sanguillen and Bruce
"If Chuck Tanner hadn't over-mana~ed, the Buc's would 

opener· will be lanky right-hander 
Kison for the Pirates and ] im Palmer, Mark Belanger andhave won the division by ten games.' I'll leave it at that. 
Bruce Kison, who won 13 games 
manag~r Earl Weaver for the Birds.
On the other side of the fence is Earl Weaver. In 11 full during the regular season. 
[continued on page 6 J[contin11ed on page 6 ] {continued on page 7 J 


~·\.·.
l .. I 




