Mason predicts possible Iran in chaos, Khomeini
overcrowding next year 
makes appeal
byJohn McGrath John Dillane, a Keenan Hall 
Senior StaffReporter resident, had projected in No­TEHRAN, 11'an [AP] -Iran's 
vember that there would be only revolutionary leaders turned to 
Despite Monday's decision to seven additional on-campus rest­li.beral, Western-ori~nted politi­cancel a proposed off-campus dents next year. He based his ctans yesterday to brmg order to lottery, there may still be an figures upon an analysis of their country and pave the way overcrowding situation in the fall, on-caml?us housing needs for the for Ayatollah Ruhollah according to Tom Mason, vice­acadermc year 1975-76 through Khomeini's Islamic republic. But president for Business Affairs. the present term. From tliis lynchings were reponed in the ' 'I'm sure that there is going to analysis, he concluded that this provinces and mysterious gun­
be some overcrowding, but I year's junior class would reverse men ftred on the Tehran offices of 
think that in the next five the tendency of last year's juniors the new prime minister. 
months, we will be able to reduce to demand on-campus housing. The newspaper Ettelaat re­
the potential for overcrowding "It was just funny that John poned six people had been 
substantially,'' Mason com­was so close to being right--it was hanged in the nonhwest city of 
mented. remarkable," Van Wolvlear Tabriz on the orders of religtous 
"Even if we absolutely mused. leaders. The newspaper also said couldn't do anything .. .I think Mason admitted, however, insurgents ripped the emblem off overcrowding is still more accept­that the prospect ofan impending the U.S. Consulate in Tabriz. able to students than a lottery," lottery may have influenced some The repons could not be he added. students to change their housing conftrmed here but, if true, may 
In a letter released Monday preference. signal that the new government night, University Provost Timo­''Students were concerned,'' still lacks total control. It has thy O'Meara annoll,{lced that the Mason said. "I'm sure that led repeatedly called on jubilant 
Iranians not to reson to "cruel­overcrowding that was experi­many to make the decision to 
enced last August would be move off-campus." ty" in the wake of victory. reduced, in his words, "by more Mason observed that there will There were no new repons of than half,'' without the need for basically be the same number of violence or arrests involving 
an off-campus lottery. students living on-campus this Americans in Iran. A contingent 
Mason concurred with year as there were last year. of 69 U.S. Marines was reponed O'Meara's estimate. "We ''The basic premise we work standing by in the Azore Islands believe, based on our best esti­from is that there are 6800 
in the Atlantic in case Marines mates--our best crystal! ball--that undergraduate students compet­guarding the U.S. Embassy overcrowding will be less than ing for 5800 beds," Mason state . needed reinforcement. Six belt­. half of what tt was this year," he "That means that 1000 students copters that could be used to said. have to live off-campus no matter evacuate threatened Americans 
were standing by in Italy. ·
When asked to reveal the what." specific figures that influenced ''The real solution is getting on Khomeini made his first 
nationwide television address-the decision to scrap the lottery, vrith the HUD proposal and 
however, no Admimstration offi­getting up a new dorm as soon as last night and repeated appeals 
cials would comment. possible," Mason continued. for the return of weapons stolen "The numbers . get everyone O'Meara revealed in his letter from military bases during the

confused,'' Mason stated. on Monday that the University is "Figures are really never posi­reapplying for a HUD grant to tive." supplement money that donors 
Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vice­are expected to contribute president for Student Affairs, towards the construction of a new came closest to revealing the women's dormitory. nature of the statisti<;s when he Mason revealed that he met referred to a student's indepen­yesterday with representatives dent analysis--presented to the from a Minneapolis architecture Campus Life Council and Hall firm to discuss the preparation of Prestdent's Council last Novem­the HUD proposal, whlch must ber--as "remarkably" close. be submitted by June 1. 
Ex-EPA chief Ruckleshaus speaks on diversity, strength 
by Mary Pat EJ/is private education won't survive the next few decades without the fmancial suppon of the business
William D. Ruckleshaus, for­community.
mer administrator ofthe Environ­
Ruckelshaus then turned hismental Protection .Agency, last talk to the concept of "freedom" night told members of the Saint in today's society. "IndividualMary's Business Associates Pro­freedom, free institutions are in gram, that "One of the greatest trouble," he said. 
strengths of this country is its He cited nations that emerged diversity.'' 
since WWII, and most recentlyRuckelshaus was at Saint China, as suffering from theMary's last night to address an 
r,roblems of trying to attainaudience of 45 business execu­'freedom". President Carter's 
tives whose com~es contribute Human Rights idea is very
unrestricted gtfts to Saint
. 
appealing to these nations, Ruck­s. elshaus said, "but it hasn't 
er a shon review of his proven very practical." 
previous experiences in the Pan of the reason that ideas government and in business, like Human Rights don't succeedRuckleshaus discussed the is that people are reluctant toimponance ofprivate educational trust anything. According to
institutions, such as Saint Rucketshaus. He satd there is aMary's, to the diversification difference between the people'sin the U.S. He also said that 
[Continued on page 10] 
En~rgy chief·Schlesinger says world-wide oil shortage possible 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Energy Secretary James mph speed limit, turning thermostats down to 65 
R. Schlesinger told Con~ress yesterday there is "a degrees and avoiding unnecessary driving ­high probability'' agrunst quick restoration of Schlesinger listed other measures the .administra­Iranian oil production under the new government tion is promoting. of the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. These include shifts away from oil to coal and 
Schlesinger testified that ifthe oil cutoff remains natural gas by industries able to make such through June, it could bring about worldwide oil · conversions and diversion of large quantities of shonages as serious as the 1973-74 Arab oil natl¥'al gas from producing states into the embargo. interstate market to accomodate such fuel shifts. 
In fact, Khomeini may be powerless to reopen Schlesinger also said the administration is the valves that had supplied 10 percent of the free considering temporarily waiving environmental world's oil, even if he wants to, Schlesinger told requirements that limit burning ofcoal and slowing the House energy and power subcommittee. down the timetable under which refineries must 
''It is plain that control ofthe oil fields belongs to shift completely from regular to "unleaded" cenain radical sroups'' and political elements not gasoline. loyal to Khometni, he said. Schlesinger reiterated his contention, ftrst made 
''There is no assurance they will respond to to the Senate Energy Committee last week, that hte urgings from Tehran and if they do, no indication situation is ''prospectively more serious'' than the they will do so quickly,'' Schlesinger said. The 1973-74 oil embargo. Carter administration Cabinet officer said the The net effect of this in the United States is the whole issue remains "iffy" because Khomeini's Joss ofabout 500,000 barrels a day, but Schles~er government hasn't yet signaled its intentions on said this may increase to 800,000 a day uqder whether to resume oil CX{X>ns. shonage-sharing agreements between the United 
While stressing the senousness of the situation, States, Israel and other fuel-imponing nations. Schlesinger echoed President Carter's assertion The deteriorating situation in the Persian Gulf Monday that the predicament had not yet become nation drives home the point that "the day of critical. reckoning is coming closer," when world demand 
And he said that voluntary measures -as for oil starts exceeding supply. opposed to gasoline rationing or banning Sunday "If Iran stays down, we ' ..:n have to take sales of gasoline -should be capable of Offsetting measures to constrain demand by at least 500,000 the loss to the United States from the Iranian oil barrels a day,'' Schlesinger said. But, he stressed cutoff. that these measures would not include mandatory 
To the steps outlined by Carter-heeding the 55 steps like gasoline rationing. 

< 
'• 
News in brief Wednesday, February 14, 1979 -page 2 

Commission


Carter, Portillo bargain 


plans contest
for trade, petroleum 
SCUBA DIVING 
WASHINGTON (AP) • When President Caner and Mexican 
We can take ,au a SCUBA DIVER
by Aileen Lavin
President Jose Lopez Portillo lay their cards on the table in 
Staff Reporter 
(Basic or Advanced) trumps. oil and natural gas. They giVe Mextco a strong hand 10 
Mexico City this week, Lopez Ponil~o will ~ holding two hi~h 
Wed. FEB. 14 ; al 6:45 PM
Tim Coughlin, HPC represen­
dealing for U.S. cooperation on trade, immigration, and other 
tative from the Student Union 
Roon 20 La Fortune
touchy issues. It is easy to cast recent U.S.-Mexican contact_S in 
Social Commission, announced
an apparendy simple mold: Mexico offered to seH the Uruted 
If you are serious about SCUBA ,
plans for the annual Snow Sculp­
States natural gas at $2.60 per thousand cubic feet; the U.S. 
come ready to pay a $30llO deposit
ture Contest last night at the
turned it down because the price was too high, Mexico got 
HPC meeting in Howard HaJJ. .
miffed and threatened to seH elsewhere, and the critics said U.S. 
cpmlons? Call Nino. 289·1158
The contest will be held from
Energy Secretary James R. Schlesinger had bungled a chance 
Feb. 17-22 with cash prizes going 
for more energy. 
to the top three winners. There are no restricitons, except that 

the schulptures be external struc­tures. Cou~hlin gave the word that " anything goes. " . 
Red Brigades 'informer ' 



Representatives from Carroll Hall were also at the meeting and 
fails to dupe Rome police 
ROME (AP) . A man who said he was a Red Brigades defector 
The N.D. Juclo Club
they announced that the restilts 
and could lead police to the killers of former Premier AJdo Moro 
of the petitions recently handed 
was charged today with trying to swindle the Italian 
out in the dorms regarding 
PRESENT.S
government. police report,.tf. Pasquale Frezza, 44, was 
parietals are expected to be 
apprehendedMonday near San Remo, a resort on the Italian 
returned by Thursday. • The 
nilS MOVIE IS TOTAllY
Ktv1era, and taken to a Rome prison for questioning. Police said 
representatives stated, "To carry
the suspect has a criminal record for swindling. Earlier, 
any weight, we have to have at 
Christian Democrat Sen. Vittorio Cervone, a dose friend or 
least 80 percent of the people
Moro, identified Frezza as the man who had offered to identify 
show support for the movement 
Red Brigades leaders in return for money and protection. Red through the survey. 
Brisades terrorists kidnapped and killed the former premier last 
The petition was designed to 
sprrng. • evaluate the general feeling of the students regarding the pre_s­ent status of parietals.
P~illy 's heart returns for 
An Tostal Chairman, Paul 
Callahan, announced an organi­
zational meeting on Sunday night 
Valentine 's Day 
at 7:00 in LaFortune Litde PHILADEI.PHIA (AP) • The most famous heart in Philadel­
Thea!Te. "It will. be a big 1 phia, a11 four tons of it, is back in circulation just in time for 
meetmg; we are startrng to reaHy Valentine's Day. Major surgery begun last June has 
plan the events,'' he empha­rehabilitated the 18-foot, walk-through heart in the Franklin 
sized. Institute. The 25-year-old hunk of steel and plaster was 
Next week's meeting will be strengthened with fiberglass, and new treads were instaHed on 
held in Keenan Hall. the stairs on which tourists travel through ventricles, auricles and veins. Today-Valentine's Dar-it is to be .dedicated in a 

formal reopening by Dr. Michae DeBakey, the Texas bean 
surgeon. 
CeA.Pe to 
Weather 
hold forum
Breezy today with a 30-percent chance offlurries changing to rain or drizzle and highs in low to mid 30s. A 50-percent chance of rain or drizzle tonight with lows near 33. Turning cooler 
The Committee on Academic tomorrow with a chance of rain or drizzle changing to flurries 
Progress wiH sponsor a forum to and slowly falling temperatures. 
discuss education at Notre Dame tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. The forum 

' If 'ff)tJ!It: (f)f)t!lll~ ita
will include talks by Assistant 
Provost Fr. Ferdinand Brown, 
6(..1 ft:JI lldt ()((?()( !J II
Prof. Thomas Werge, Prof. Harvey Bender, Prof. A. Murty Kanury, and Prof. Robert Houck. ..,
12:15 pro--SEMINAR, "the development· and use of model 
~AZZ I cllt?lltlll •••
A question and answer period
systems for cancer research"' dr. morris pollard, nd, spon. by 
will foHow. All interested per­
dept. of microbiology, 278 GALVIN sons are encouraged to attend, especiaHy freshmen who have not J Go on over to Mardi Gras. cf 3:25 pm--GRADUA1E SEMINAR, "reaction specific tailoring of 
yet dec1ded which college to
catalysts,'' vstg. prof. enrico n. martinez, spon. by chem. eng. 
enroll in next semester. There will be live performances 
dept., 269 CHEM. ENG. BLDG. 

all week long. 
3:30 pm--COll.OQUIUM, "josephus and rome,': prof. david j. ladouceur, nd member, spon. by theology dept., liB. LOUNGE 

§() §(()~ ()II i>l Clllcl ll§(f?ll
4:20 pm--COILOQUIUM, "panicle reactions with nuclear 
~'!:!~==~

Asst. Night Editor: Jim
targets,'' prof. jerome rosen, northwestern u., spon. by physics 

tll §{)IT1f? ~lt?Clt IT1U§It:.
Rudd •
dept., 118 NIEUWLAND Layout Staff: Ann Monag­
han~, Rod Beard, Cheryl

5:15 pm--FASTERS MASS, spon. by world hunger coalition, 
Kelly [a friend from Saint Mary's ofWinonaJ 
WALSH CHAPEL 



Sports Layout: Mark Perry
6 pm--WRESlUNG, notre dame-purdue, ACr:t 
Engineering & Computer Science Majors
Typists: Trish, Nancy, Betsy 6 pm-12 am--MARDI GRAS, featuring "screw your neighbor" 
Boo, andKatie 
Night Controller: Mardivalentine dance, S1EPAN. CEN1ER 
'DONT 
Day Editor: Dan Letcher 6:30pm--MEETING, sailing club, 204 O'SHAG 
Copy Readers: Mark Rust 
GRADUATE 
ana Mike Onufrak 
Ad Layout: david Wood, Flo7,9,11 pm--FILM, "kentucky fried movie," ENG. AUD. 
without talking to the
O'Connell, Bub 
Hughes Recruiter visiting
Photographer: Cate Magen­
7:30 pm--FORUM, "corporate responsibilities to minorities," 
nis
spon. by nd league of black business students, 122 HAYES 

your campus soon. 
HEALY The Observer [USPS 598 920] is published Monday through Friday ex­
7:30 pm--LECTURE, "women as vessels: both treasure and 
Contact your placement office
cept during exam and vacation periods.
trap," tesse hanigan donnely, e.g. jung center, chicago, 
The Observer is published by the 
for Interview dates.
students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s College. Subscriptions may be
CARROlL, SMC 
r·-----·-----·-----,
I I
purchased for $20 per year [$10 per
8 pm--SHOW,ice capades 
semester] from The Observer. P.O. box 
l HUGHES:
0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second 
I I
class postage paid, Notre Dame. In· diana 46556. 
8:15 pro--CONCERT, patrick maloney, tenor, LIB. AUD. 
~------------------~
OHtlnfl•-wotld with elect~ 
. The Observer is a member of the
10:30 pro--MEETING, sharing ses~ion, spon. by cila, BULLA 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
SHED 
rights are reserved. 


Wednesday, February 14, 1979 -page 3 
.. 
Planner Food Sales' management and employees are happy with last semester's $2500 profit. [Photo by Cate .Magennis] 
Hanner nets $2500 
Food sales profits vary 
Editor's Note: At least one hall's food sales is "rip-off's" and a lack of proper 
The following article is the first losing money, however. Admit­mamtenance. in a three-part series explon'ng ting that his outlet is ''probably "Maintenance hasn't been in campus food sales operation. the crummiest food sales on for five years and we have had a This t'nitial story deals with the campus, Nick Zagotta, one of lot of trouble with people stealing profit andmangement ofmany of four partners in Sorin Food Sales, things," explained Zagotta, who the outlets. Followz'ng segments blamed much of his problem on [Continued on page 4] will deal with manager selection, social atmosphere and problems involved day-to-day operations. 
Motorist strikes ND student 
by john McGrath Senior StaffReporter 
after he 'gunned the ~otor' 
Food Sales are a common hall institution at Notre Dame, but by Ann Gales with their flsts while chasing the the adage, "If you've seen one, News Editor car and shouting at the driver to you've seen them all" could not stop. be further from the truth; each Witnesses estimated that the outlet has taken on a distinct · A Notre Dame student was vehicle was travelling at about 20 personality of its own. struck by a motorist Sunday miles per hour when it struck the 
Each dorm on campus has its afternoon after the Ua.A game vicrim. own food sales, but they differ as he crossed]uniper Rd. coming Reportedly, the student no­widely in management, format, out of gate ten of the ACC. The ticed the car just before he was product line, and profit Most student was treated at the in­hit. He jumJ>ed up to avoid the outlets offer the same type of fumary for bruises, but no full impact of the collision, and products, with many selling soft broken bones were reported. thus avoided going under the car, drinks, pizza, candy and such ''The driver had a green light, according to one witness. other items as potato chips, but no one was paying attention ''The bumper caught him in bagels, and hot sandwiches. to the signal," an eyewitness the shins and he was thrown onto 
One of the most profitable said. ''There were masses of the hood. The guy just kept outlets on campus is Flanner students crossing the street, and driving and the student rolled off Food Sales, where last semester he just drove right into the the car, did a somersault, and the management cleared $2500 in crowd.'' landed on the ground,'' the profit. Other halls such as Zahm, Another witness, who de­witness continued. however, run their operation on a scribed the motorist as a bearded Students ran after the car to more conservative basis. man wearing a hat pulled low get the license plate number, 
"We're on a break-even over his eyes, commented that which was later reported to basis,'' remarked Don Schweig­the driver "just put his head police. St. Joseph County Police hart, manager of Zahm Food down and gunned the motor'' as stated yesterday that they are ''in Sales, who added, "We figure he approached the crowd. the process of tracing the license students get ripped off enough As the car picked up speed, number, but have as yet made no here on campus.'' students began to hit its windows progress in the case." 

FRIDAY & SATURDAY FEBRUARY 16th,17th 
MUDDY 

'WATERS 
f;~~ $6.00 GENERAl ADMISSION 

f.~ ...... 
\f ' I BI...OCI{ SOUTH OIF THE MOAfUS CMC Al.OfORIUM r_,.. ON RNER 8£NO PLAZA DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEMl 
TICKET LOCATIONS 

VEGETABLE BU!;)DIES RIVER CITY RECORDS (US 31 N) RIVER CITY RECORDS (BELLEVIllE PLAZA, WESTERN AVE) 
Presented by 

VegetQble Buddies &~ Rivet Cl'!~ Records 
..,_ 



Applications for Student Union Director and Comptroller 
I· 
Are now available in the S. U.-offices Applications due Feb. 20 Interviews will be Feb. 27 For information, call 7757 

River City Records presents _ an evening of Southern Rock & Roll••• 
BLACK OAK ARKANSAS 
and special guests 
SOUTH SHORE 

Tontorrow Ni~ht! Thurs. Feb. 15-7:30pnt Morris <:h·it• Auditoriurn Tickets: $7.50/6.50 good seats are still available at River City Records (50970 U.S. 31 North) 
and Morris Civic Box Office 

\:ull 277-·1212 fur· fur·tht·r· infm·mulicm 




The Observer Wednesday, February 14, 1979 -page 4 
YOUTH IS OUR CONCERN 
The PIARISTS 
The priests and brothers of the Plarist Order have educated the young fOI' over 300 years. We profess a fourth VC'IW dedicating ourselves to educate youth ac· confine to the priilciples of Christ and of our founder, St Joseph Calasanctius. We wor1t in grade schools. high schools, CCD programs and parishes. For further information, write to: 
Vocation Director The Piarists 363 Valey Forge Road Devon, Pennsylvania 19333 
Tales in American 
The Special double-issue of 
Juggler '79 
is still reviewing manuscripts for publication. Writing about America of special interist. Poems~ stories, essays, etc. 309 O'Shag 
3rd floor La.Fonune 
*******<=:<=>~~~'~******** 


Valentine's Day 
.Specials 
Screw Drivers 75 4 Gin. and Tonics 754 



[Continued from page 3] 
reponed last semester· s prottt 
"wasn't anything to worry 
about." . 

There are four basic types of 
management structure among 
campus food sales operations: 
the salaried manager who has a 
contract with the hall government 
or a food sales commission; an 
arrangement in which the man­
ager splits a percentage of the 
profits with the hall; and opera­
tions which pay a flat rental fee to 
the hall for the use of food sales 
facilities. Such rentals are nego­
tiated on either a daily or 
semester-long basis. 

Jim Rusconi, manager of 
Alumni Food Sales, is an exam­
ple of a salaried manager. 
Rusconi receives $40 each week for his work, a sum which he has to divide among eight other employees that help him run the outlet. He reponed a $300 dollar profit last semester, which he considers less than expected. In . past semesters Alumni's profit 
has been from $500-$600. 
Rusconi added that after sala­
ries all profits go toward hall 
functions. 

"This is a service to the hall, 
but the hall likes to have func­
tions that lose money, so we have 
to make enough profit to make up 
for the loss,'' Rusconi said, 
adding, "This is what runs the 
hall." 

Matt Brunyansky, an employee 
at Flanner Food Sales, also 
reponed that all his outlet's 
profit goes to hall improvement. 
"Every section gets $10 and 
we were even able to get new 
jerseys for the hockey and toot­
ball teams with some of the 
money,'' Brunyansky com­
mented. 
over $1000 last semester, commented, "Here at Dillon, the isn't so much in the pizzas--it's really in the pop and 
It is another story at Keenan 
food sales, known as "Zaland," where a large pan of the outlet's profits--as well as the Flanner, Zahm, and Grace are 
all examples of the salaried 
manager setup,· but some halls 
such as LeWis, Fisher, Breen­
Philips, and St. Ed's allow their 
managers to keep a percentage of 
the outlet's profits for compensa­
tion. The rate differs from a 40 
percent share for the manager at 
Lewis to a 70 percent cut of the 
income going to the operator at 
St. Ed's. 
Louanne Snellgrove, manager 
of Lewis Food Sales, which made 
a pre-cut profit of $600 last 
semester, commented on the 
percentage system. "It's an 
mcentive for the hall, but also 
more of an incentive for me to 
work harder,'' she said. 
At Sorin Food Sales, Zagotta's management group pays a flat five dollar rental fee for each . night that the operation is .open. 
Zaggota admitted that his out­
let is losing money, however, 
adding that with the opening of 
the Huddle's new delicatessen, 
sales may be even more adverse­
ly affected. 
"They've (sales) slacked off 
lately .. invariable it's (the Huddle 
gonna hun us because it's only a 
five-minute walk away." 
Some halls, such as Dillon and 
Morrissey, require a basic fee 
from managers of food sales 
operations as a semester rental 
for the space. All profits made 
after the fee is paid are then kept 
by the managers. 
At Dillon, the fee is $650 and at 
Morrissey, which had pre-rental 
income of $2100 last semester, 
the cost of renting space is $700. 
Both fees were negotiated prior 
to the beginning of the semester, 
with the franchise going to the 
highest bidder or bidding group. 
]ohn Peak, manager of Dillon 
Food Sales, which had an income 


Food sales, 
biggest pan of its reputation--lies in its pizza sales. 
Zaland (a shonened form of Pizzaland) became an indepen­dent entity two years ago when it broke away from Stanford .Food Sales and set up its own quarters in the hall's basement. Now the outlet is averaging a profit of $1000 each semester, as well as pioneering a di.+ferent form of management--the Zaland Board. 
Mark Koenig, an employee, explained that the group is comprised of a worker's repre­sentative, the rector, the com­missioner aim Genista)' a rep­resentative from hall council, and the hall president. 
Black students to host forum 
''Corporate Responsibility to Minorites'' is the theme of the third annual forum being pre­sented by the League of Black Business Students at 7:30 p.m. tonight in the Hayes-Healy Audi­torium. The program is open to the public. 
Speakers will include Ray Warrior and Lionell Phillips of I.B.M.; Wtlliam Boswell, Stan­dard Oil of Ohio; Wayne Patrick, American States Insurance Com_{Jany; Ken Butler, Owens Cornmg and Fiberglass; Dr. James Stewan, assistant profes­sor of economics and director of Notre Dame's Black Studies Pro­gram, and George Stevens of the depanment of management at Kent State University. 
CILAtomeet 
CILA will hold a Sharing Session at the Bulla Shed tonight at 10:30 p.m. All CILA members and any other interested persons are welcome to attend. 

The Observer Wednesday, February 14, 1979 -page 5 
WHC proposes boycott of Nestles; referendum to gauge student support 
by Kevin Gorman 

The World Hunger Coalition Sunday night proposed the elim­inating of Nesde's corporation products in the University dining halls and vending machines through a referendum in. the upco~g student government elections. 
The proposal, which can be placed on the ballot by a petition bearing the names of 1~ percent of the students, was rriade in response to "a lack of corporate responsibility on Nesde's pan" in handling the infant formula controversy, according to WHC coordinator, Maria Garvy. "As students this is the most respon­sible activity we could carry out,'' she said. 
The proposal, if implemented, calls for a boycott by the Notre Dame Food Services of all Nesde and Nesde subsidiary products, including, among others, Libby's and StoUffer's. 
The Student Board of Commis­sioners agreed yesterday to let the WHC bring the referendum before the students. Additional­ly, the WHC said yesterday that they plan to obtain the signatures of approximately 800 students, by this Monday to show that the issue is of interest to students. 
Robert J . Robinson, director of Food Services, safd yesterday that he was willing to comply with any request of the student body to boycott Nesde's, as long as he had the approval of the administration, according to John Dunbar of the ~C. 
Robinson, who was unavailable for comment, got "the green light'' from the administration yesterday, Dunbar added. Saint 
Saint Mary's . will begin a petition today to have the boycott apply as well to its dining ball. 
The ~C has encouraged individuals to independendy Doy­cott Nesde's for the past year. The WHC's main project this year has been to alert students to what they consider to be the problems of infant malnutrition connected with the use of Nesde's products throughout the Third World. The WHC offered a series of lectures and seminars culmiQating this past Fall with a day long workshop at St. Mary's, attended by three representa­tives of the Nesde's corporation. 
"We have tried to educate the students for the last year and feel now that we are ready for action,'' Garvy said. 
According to Dunbar, the WHC regards a boycott as the best means of dealing with Nesde's, which is a Swtss cor­poration and therefore not sub­Ject to the stockholder pressure. 

"We can only effect them economically,'' Dunbar stressed. 
A seperate social action organ­ization on campus, concerned with the recent strike of migrant workers in Ohio, also expressed an interest in boycotting Nesdes. Nestles is the parent corporation of Libby's, which tog~er with Cambells, purchases 'The fruit and vegetables the striking Ohio workers pick. 
The organiiation, CADENA (Spanish for "change"), said yesterday that, while the two Issues were "too complex and different'' to be placed on the same referendum, they still would support the WHC boycott · effort. 
Commission tells Congress students remain segregated 


Washin~ton lAPJ -Neatly half the minonty children in America go to segregated schools, and Congress, the administration and the courts all seem to have lost interest in doin~ much about it, the U.S. Civil Rights Commission said yesterday. ' · 
In 19~4. the Supreme Court ruled segregation unlawful and harmful to youngsters, but a child born that year could now be in graduate school without ever havmg attended an integrated school, educator Stephen Horn, vice chairman of the panel, told a news conference. 
The occasion was the publica­tion of a commission report 
I 

-critical of Congress for passmg anti-busing legtslation and of the departments of ) ustice and Health, Education and Welfare for a lack of zeal in denying federal funds to school districts that defy desegregation orders. 
Even the Supreme Court seems to be "retreating from its long-espoused commitment to the right of school children to a desegre~ated education,'' the commiss10n said. 
Nonetheless, commission chairman Arthur S. Flemming told reporters he believed the American people ''deep down'' still ~up.(>Ort the idea of desegre­
[Continued on page 9] 
The Student Union Record Sale 
RECORDS PRICED AT COST 
second floor LaFortune room 2-d this will be the only time the records will ever be priced this low! ! ! 


STONE & WEBSTER 
Will be interviewing for 

Electrical Engineers Mechanical Engineers 
For Field Operations 
On 
February 20, 1979 



A~!~!~ 
P.O. Box 2193, Boston, Mass. 02106 

is hiring .E1ig.bJ Attendants -accepting applications on Tuesday, February 20, from 3:30-6:30 pm at the Albert Pick Motor-Inn 
213 W. JJ74  (downtown)  
Minimum requirements:  
e at kast 19 112 yrs of age  eHeight 5'2"-6'2"  
e vision correctabk to 20-50  ,e willing to relocate  

-bi-lingual_ speakers also desired­for more info. call: 232-3947 at the Albert Pick equal opportunity employer 
• 
An t qlr,!l Op~HI• turHty I mplny••• Mit 

--------------------~~~--------------------------------------------. 


'· 
-~ . 

·~­



Observer-Valentine Personals· Dear R.G.A. ~1 percent: Cupid's arrow from Alamosa Even though ·my resistance Is high, 1 caught me by surprise get a kick out of you, too! I'll never be the same again --but who cares?! Lals: Love, P.E.B. Your movas are nifty enouP,h to break down my defenses! How bout some one-on-one?Kubus, The MummyGo on, get out of hare, We love you, Curves:You've got red lips, Here's hoping toddy !teats you right.Get out of here, I'm still thinkihng of you, Koo-Koo!Get a job, R.T.E.Now get out of here, ------------­We love you. Bill and .Jon,The Girls Ft i11nds r1nservu valentines, tool Happy VO!Kevin, MyRoYou make my heart throb, my spine tingle and my porn poms shake. Get the G~ry C,picture? Will Donny's_or Mr. J'~ ever be theMuch love, MB s.-1me after being visited at 3:30 am on a ., hursoay morning by two radio "persr·TJH, mtllllns' rJrosscr! as henrts? Nanook sv~Want to negotiate a Valentines con­"beware the snow", It surely will. · tract? Call to plan conference times! D~ughter of Pallrt1romcKMC P.S. If Franky's gets fo see 113. will you L'DmP to llll' post-valent!oo dinner wiii:Timmy, Sally and tile cop?You're all a Valentine should be -a ·--­-----·---­very special person to me. To lill' fl~nclliJ, honoy bunny, and b 1 • love, Bumblebee racodn. · In love from now to eternity, InEd, re~ognltion of tllis, .1nothc1 first for us,Partners like you are sure hard to come n:al Go:! bless yotr with ~ happyby. Happy Valentines Day to ahoney of a V;,l~ntlne ~ilu love.guy! '•l111l, von ;liver Hc•:t·ntr it: but loveab!eLove, Mary Beth ftll~pl:oio bui ttw third. JMC, ")! ... d·~ GtJ•JPr •·r1~~q: ~ 0lks:· Thanks for making this year really ~-,~u, tt"l~;L.h ·.-;r: ·:fil1n'~ e; :t'la'.special, It's been the best «t~•' '''t>w,· Valentines DayLove, Lou l o• se ,, 1\ath Steph, 1 .HI. ·,t ,;c· :r." ~nlk5:Yes, roomie, this Is your very own ·s... ·tt ::~' ,.,.,. "''r hctt we love you'personal. You're the greatest! Kathy anll L::Love, MB Ken & Vandy, 'l:r~: r"<a( ~omr.d~~ btxomes theHappy Valentine's Day to my two best Wc·!i~''' ·11 be complett11y happy unt,rbuddies. Thanks for being so great. :r~r ··­happy t~ walt. Just g1ve me n••Love and hugs, Staph ...... tw yeJt :.. Besides you have. the ~-f" : ' -( 1.~flJs<tlPam, Though we've had some troubles, I hope S 'Hl.they never keep us from being friends. -I'm ,,, lrJVt' witt1 you Will you be myfruly, Scoop VaiP.I·;,~~' Love, V E l Margie, Thanx for letting me harrass you. Hope I E'~::e tHJ~I :. vou Fred)never get on your nerves too much! ; •<>i'iJY V,jt~ntine's Day on the correc1Yours eternally scoop · day I love yol(.' Butterflngc:TFT­1love your blow-spout H:y<J Nit~The whale Y krww, !hey call me Grandpa·, bul· 1~;,~ 'TlJnr g:~vs w>th thf bOdy ot a 21Dear Section-V ye<wok1 hJ·;~ rhe !!~per 1ence of a 50Happy V-Day yeJr o:u mar•"'As always, Peeker Rou~rp;; the tm:,yinattrm, eh? Be my(Kathy)2 plus (Laura)2•Happy Val en­·.-~'enime? .tines Day Love Peeker & Perry BIY Joe, Sun,Tl Vogllo Tanto Bene Think you 1111 the dead animal coat IIHLove always, Loren V!ttntine't'Day. You know whoKathy and Louise, S.U. & S.G. Love You. Will you be our .Joan,:·e Wmtcr.Valentines? Ka!dnwoo aunt say:;.. I 'Should 1:91 to knqw you i II call11o prank. ' Dear Peggy, Steamboat., ' I hope this Is as good as chocolate covered cherries. Happy Valentines Day! Sun~hlne. love, Jeff Happy V:tltdinE's Day' Hollywood Donna B, Wasn't that "Rocky" I heard on Friday S\Yel!t Sue. Night? Have fun explaining that one and Happy vn:dnt!nr.·;. Day, Sorry abou; happy Valentines Day. tl1t: hnlel. maybe the road tnp will work love and abuse, Bob out love. [<• · MBH ... Mary Beth, don't ever hasten down the ~I:T:, wind. rlaCJpy va' ' Cav JAH F ,\ G S . l V f Trin~$ CJ. More than yesterday . ­less than tomorrow. JD Dear Ann, Happy Valentines Day. One out of three ain't bad. love, Pete Lulu, Never had as much delight, Every Tuesday night. Antonio &.4::Dear Mudd, '~! '""' ;f o-.:s strongfir v.ith 8a':'i'It's about time! Be mine, you vJ"~'r;; Jay. '"li!ppy Valeniii)85 Day andValentine. I'm very happy now. .. ~~e~ !r, -;a~y mort: togetherMa Dooley Brickhouse Meg-0, Heaven knows, It's not the way It should be... PT McArthur's Park Is melting In the dark... Re-··•-·oon (~k;; Z.:;rn).So let's dance, the last dance.. . You don't bring me flowers.. . t:a...: ·n.. · r K!!()W yllurs. when are you And of course, the ever-popular 'Cause go!!'!!) ;u l;.•d a:l n.y trckllsh spots? when we klss-ooh FIRE! ' Obscene Senio. Happy V-Day from your favorite radio station. W.B.E.F. L P 1 3rown 'iat"'Y Viile<~lim· ·cDay Disco Bob, -~"' chew l,dru o:. yuui gum Looking forward to dlscolng-down with 'o\'l1;ch or,a of your groupies you Valentines night. I~ :t"" ue;;.or.al from't . -much love, Your disco queen !'leit'~tKatteN, Roses are red, ; wa.red 8 "mnths for a chance to be naar Violets are blue you <c;:i<!tn ..wt.J asmyfe kt:.s last wtllli< :.. If you're name Is Jim Blaha -lu were more than worth the wan Then I love you. )'OU 'B !\,.. 0051. Yours In passion, Bunny LaRue "'s.:tya11't1 tiaveme, Rr!an  ,  3-8·1 Happy Valentines Day for the third but certainly not for the last time. I love you BBE M.B. BEFORE 18th century tonality, I still loved you. Rich Gerry, Colleen, Maureen & Mary. Happy Valantines Day! Together forever we will ... · Love the wild & innocent. Ma-Ma Bumpkins Roses are Red Violets are Blue I can't wait Till I see you. Happy Valentines Day Da-Da Bumpkins. Mo, I really do like girls with big feet but don't tell your mom. Happy Valentines Day! Collar Bone Ticylee Mike Culotta, A very special Valentine for a sweet­heart! We love you muchly! Your two girlfriends Kathy & Lizzy Rick, Happy Valentine's Day, but most of all Happy Birthday! I'll be waiting for you on June 9, and B too! Love Always, Vicki Ps Braaaach Mary Kuuse has great ankles!!! The REAL Beast Jeanne L.­Happy Valentines day you sexy, wild n' crazy savage fox. ELLEN FLOOD, Happy Birthday from your section!!!! JULE* HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY Love, your secret admirer. Happy Valentines Day to my Klss-a-holic Love your muffin-head Josie: Thanks for being ·the speclalest roomie! Happy Valentine's Day! Love 'n' hugs, Tric1a To the only woman I've ever known whose middle name was Sunda: Is there validity In love? Happy Valentine's Day. Campus Views Soporific Conversation­alist Dearest Dad, Thanks for all the love and carl ng Happy Valentines Day Love Moochiney To Carl: Through thick and thin we'll stick together. l'lllove you always. JS Carrie Rooney Wishing you a very special Happy Valentines Day. AAB RCM, Happy Valentines Dayl (don't complain that you never get any personals) LAP Billy Joe McGurn, Happy Valentine's Day to our favorite east coast farmer! Love M.A. D. & K.E.G. GWD* I love You! Mat At a dance they call "screw your roommate," where I went unbeknown to my date, we danced until dawn, When poor Patti did y~wn, Boy, do my LITTLE FI!ET ache. Happy Valentines Day, Patti Little Feet Lover Punkin Doodles, You said Yes! Happy Valentines Day Love Poople Kath, Here's aValentine from Nappannce. You know we all love you. Chet Reid Dear M.B., Our love can't be strangled so be my Valentine please. · Love Your favorite SevenSeventeener (717) PS. I love You. Loretta,  February 14, 1979 -7 Jimmy O'Pooh, C.B. A special day for us today. and many I would have sent abox of chocolates but I more are on the way. Only 136 more til like you better pleasantly .plump than fltt our big day, til then. I love ya, Salk, If I and fleshy No love handles! may.Love, M.M. Be mine, Love, Barb PS. Need some more help with your biology? To the sexiest babes on campus: Lisa L., Amanda B., Jeanne L. GIVETo Shar011 and Terri, You hold a special place In my heart. "Mr. Incredible"John. I don't know what In the hell Is wrong with other students around here whenOo_ooy, they think there's some kind of socialMy favorite Dwarf Please be my Valen­problem between the sexes. I'm suretine. , glad we've handled it. We've come aLove, Uoc. long way, baby, I truly love you. The "Boss"Karen, -PS. Happy Valentines DayTime passes quickly, but my love won't. Always, Jim A.S.III,--·---------­-­-­____....___. I know you'll get this late, To the ax Marlboro man, with axcitlny But what matters Is not the date. brown eyes who loves to 111sco anti 'j)lay:i Rather It's what I have to tell you .. itJusy backgammon. Will. you IJe my Just that Together I think we're great! valentine? and make my day shine (and I love you)Aseml·s01:rot 2dmlrcr. s. King Arthur, Kim B. and Lisa C., A t l<rppy Valentines Day wish for my To my two most favorite Valentines (and favorits kino. occastonal roomies). It's great that you /\nnie are able to hold fast to old friends while making new ones; and still open your hearts to a light knock on rour door.Gr89!lngs to all my buddies in 4-B. Thanks again for a wonderfu weekend!· Gordon Love Stacy Happy Valentmes DayNorm~lly I'm not the mushy typu, out sifl(.~! avr.r yone else is doing It, I 'II do It Tom­1<:...Happy Va!entlf'ltls Oay to all my 1promised you a valentine. Take myn,;ltun· i.,male 3t.;qUI\ilttances trom Sal~­advlce...Get a chick1iA·•'"'(:.-no: !;r~,~:~--;:n~ tJD. Happy V. DayNl.1~v ·~t:! aut p! :,m:~-, :--;u;\itl ,t! r11~.. --,a M­·:eo i~MGJ JMG-Au ;;en Even though my three weeks are up...Conli•S~tP i\s iong a:, lin:rt· lb ~ uni<.r: ~ Happy Valentines Day. Anyway!I will be il!ere M-squaredTne Phliiy kid Terry,M. !'::-:::.1!1 Roses are Red~ 111ilie (or I = •Jl Jfnjf :rur,~ ropP-JJ.al) Violets i)re blue Telephone booths and philosophyBllly­Can't keep me from you.Je~""i~ ts very protoc~;t i-fow could I Supermanelaborate Sparkle To the girls below, Have a Happy V.D. .Dear Clem From the guys aboveHappy ·~<>lef\tines uay s,,..,:,:i\eart' How'd y~• li~;; to 1(1()!,<, yow -;ng ·•\ldln~· Happy Valentines DayLove TB· · Jerry XO Love DebbieDear Mlchei·Je t'almeW -----Butterfi ngerJohn, The candybar's hard to find, but you're'Nhat can I say even rarer. I love you! A IuckyExcept liliil carbohydrate catalyzer Now you've seenYr.u 5roiA r;.; heart 2way! . · . II on print.1 !•'V~ ;.~~ Bunn~ P: H;::ve 'lie bro'<~n any tecot''· voi~-~ JO'B that's right kid, ·you have justSara received another personal. On V D noXI~ 7-ir. Women L.ranQ!!iJB Ren ';: lilian less. Congratulations. Your warm per­7/;: Ylqi.. Zhel Shlhou chen You YlsL sonality, good looks, and taste In menAI, Joe should be commended. For without any one of the above, you wouldn't be readingHappy lf:IIeni' .~s D•:' to •••cit o: C. (i & :­this.Sio~"'r), Tum Z. (Aiumn~ o). Brans~ IlkI ~~~; ~~~·~;;. '"~;;~s~C.~~i~~b(~l~h Happy Valentines Day Fontanathe jok'!5~ ·m! .'\lei:. \ giggle mama) GS Deni~ : &Margo. . DamWe Ia•~ y-B_oth•But. as the song goe~ I'd rather celebrate April fools day.'when wlfl . ., '~" vou ~gain?' Geral . J!hi . .:;....-C·Ball,Chipmunk Forget the menu-l'm on a strictly FISHThe Olio: s:;.~·· toda1i: :tte i11y -~orne and diet. giit tt 143, Buckwheatr••unpkln TKM, Alii need are your bright baby blues. (No ducks allowed!) Love, Cheese-Nip Kathy, How about a date (a real long one) on October 18, 1980? I can't walt. P.S. Happy Valentines Day Love, Larry' Debba: Charge for ami free Observer personal; one very personal evening out (my treat) Can I collect~ M.P. Happy Valentines Day!""": ·;l[rj \1;-:~!l(lflo:· (): I Dug, ..., _-'-~}••-•aiv. !·~­·­lor.:-,~!&\""· t=lanf' I love you a hole bunch ·-~·>b ..'1m, r-.• -­ul. ,,.m, Ellen, Shovelface r~t..;r~, -,_:;;:--~~, •h'l, ~Qi; an!i Mar1 ant1 ;.;··-:ivn root · · Tuna, SHC In '80..r" y Rvrnt<. Love, Mr. Snuggles·--lht: ,.,;ttds 1eC: lrf.:;;: you'(.~ ·ruE blue? · Julia Jones, We adore You!· Happy Valentines Day.'irn Love, Jackson, Bruce, Starsky, Mark, &:" :·('t frf'( tilt : "· ·­·rs whl' , ' love tor Me ;-·:ij ~JI! I _,,.:. -~i· .... , franclm Dripping wit~ sentimentality, I find myself overcome with a desire to wish aD P -· decent Valentines Day to Mary Pat,I want L .gr.::·:~~-Cil :·'C'Jr hrvtu! Pam, Margie, Flusette, Mary, Marian,Vermin Ann, Melanie, Valerie, Claire, Mary Ann, Mom, Mardi, Margaret, Clel,Kevin Y.­Katie, Cathy, Tracy, Kelly, Ann (a'"-"-_,/,~ (1ut ;.; .-_;.;·:·­.~ .. ; i·uil::~:.mt ~~you different one), Rose-mary, Diane, Katie·~,Ink: (another different one), my mother,Vn;_," et:: :1dorabtet ierrl, Jane, Donna, Shelfa, Cella, DebbieMary all at the Observer, the entire female sex, and the whole human population. Also thanx to God. • Scoop  - 
;'!  tf<­...,  .-~ \  !:;. •.f ­·•v:...:  .  :'l·';·::..:,.~ .,.. .......  
 ··'·  


-~-~-­

rrhe Observer -Valentine Personals Wednesday, February 14, 1979 -page 8  
.?" SMITIY: • Beautiful Blue Eyes, To "the group" and especially Bill, Hey Crazypants and Slinky! Aunt Beth, Will you be our ValenUne? OH WOW! You've got a place In my heart forever. Happy Valentines Day! You guys are Wanna eat some pizza? I'll bring the Kevin Patrick has one of my best friends great!Th•Girls Happy Valentines day. Love Always, shoelaces. Happy Valentine's Day to babysit for him In days to come. I'm 3-8-1 Love, gonna miss you next year. Thanks for all Ubetla, Lola, Klbl, Pain, Soupy, Stoney, Ann Roonle!!! our great times. Lllwrl, Kay Shay, Merf, Nancl, Krat Annie, Nanna, Jane &Erin Let me show how much I care. You are Meagan's Aunt my every dream complete.House Jlnsllld of Slngar) and letz: Happy Valentines Day! Larry, You ldn't know where thll Valentine's Love Mary What Terence can't say, maybe 'this Kisses, Lulu, Klddo lly!Day wish would be coming from, did you? , message will. Happy Valentines Day! Saturday nights have never been Sure. Now, go on, get out 'a here. We To the "Last Resort" With Love, sweeter. Happy V.D.Mary Pat, Thank you for being.love you. You knew that. Happy Happy Valentines Day to a bunch of wild Your Bambino TigerYour FRIEND TimValentine's Day and a dozen 1111111. and crazy guys, love, Mardi and KIUe . Love, Mary lovely Lulu, Chere Kathy. NO was boring 'til you became my Lulu--my truest valentine, You're my Special Valentine. I wish youThanks for the memorable Thursdays,Scoop: Dearest Jim, valentine. a Happy Day full of smiles and much SlyHere's an unexpected Valentine's wish To the best (and longest lasting) valen­Friday Fred lau~hter. I miss your fairy dance, and to you from Mardi and Katie tine anyone could ever ask for. Thank can t walt for May! you for almost three years of happiness. I NER, Tell Tina McGuire, Nancy O'Neill, and Lovingly yours, Keek-Elaine Reimann, that they are as prettylove you. A single personal bespeaks a thousand Lin Hope your day is rosy. Karen nothings. • as a rose. Today. They're sure to give P.S. Check Diary 2-14! Love TPC Anonymous you a "hi!" RJR, To Sundef xll, Rosemary, 5:15 Dave,Tired of those long, cold, lonely South Fish, Happy Day to all my friends, especially Is It alright to send a Valentine to a I love you. Happy Valentine's Day.Bend nights? Share them with your CPA Happy Valentines Day to a very tolerant last years secret Valentlne(s)! I think of future Nun'/ Maybe you'lllet me talk you 5o'clock DinoReview Books · roommate! you all often and miss you dearly. out of the convent. there are certain Propert, Plant and Equipment You deserve amedal for putting "Junque" sends her best too! So yez­advantages to the worldly life.. up with me! Wadical, sages!love, Bill We wuv you! Happy V-Day.Bullwinkle, Your loving Valentine,Your favorite McCandless women.Impotence can be cured. Take It from an AMEN SISTERS: Linda•KATHY, JEANNINE,LISA Italian who knows. Try our new product IN HONOR OF OUR PATRON SAINT,HAPPY VALENTINES DAY Kathy Klefer,at AJ G Enterprises. ST. VALENTINE... MAY YOU HAVE A To: Jim, Tom & Andy, three excitable YOU GUYS ARE THE GREATEST-ON You're so pretty! Happy V·DayThe management HAPPY DAY. HAPPY V-DAY! Superstuds -always first in our hearts; DRUGS* BUT THE GREATEST!! I Love, The Italian Wonders: oh so very nice -Love Trish Your secret admirersWMM, TO THE BOYS IN 823: Tony Ricci and Nick "my savior' DiGio­The nuclear Navy wants you! Does your HOPE CUPID'S ARROW HITS YOU viannio, Good old Gus, my fiance Drew 3 North Holy Cross-Happy Valentines To the Doyle's of Whitefish Bay,submarine have as much nuclear power TODAY AND EVERYDAY! HAPPY and Mo (& Diane); to Red Hot Jack andHappy, Happy Valentine's Day! We missDay-Trish as they all say? VALENTINES DAY. George and semi-Superstud John; once ya lots. Too bad about the car's-The waves M.A. again Tim my man; Bllleach; Chip, Ed,transmission.Myro, Fuzz. etc.; Neutrino Nick and his cosmicLove,Some are quite negative others won't say nrussel, John, sidekicks; Doc, Mitch, Tom, Bryan, andMike and Betzno. What did he mean, anyway? You are amazing Happy Valentine's Day Popple. Let's even Rocky. Morrissey Men: Bob Bill dbartlsh have some vino to celebrate. I know. Meckes & his co-horts; Ken, Don & Ed;Love, NGN:ps. I love you Mark & Skippy the Stunt baby, Seer,Maryellen Connely-Happy Valentines Jean I know ayoung lady named Nancy who's Tex. Herring & Rooney, PreP.PY Brettthoroughly tickled my fancy! I told herDay Tim, (you little skelm), Disco Lee 0 Latz aliassincerely that I loved her dearlr, but sheFriday night was the best! Hope you had Tina, ~acho Man, College Bowl Wizzes Keith, How 'bout it? thought my promise too chancy. (Curses,as much fun as I did! Happy Valentines Brownie and Shep, Pat (Arnold's Idol),Love,8000 domers!. ..glad I met vou! foiled again!)Day-"Hey, I know you're great" Russ (brev king), Adam ~he only one who Be mlne•• Annle Tom BJHHappy Valentines Day leaves SOH after we do , Janes, Hussy,Love, Trish Jose and the rest of the ornians. HappyRCM,, Maureen A. Carney: Jim, Ruben, Bill, John, Kevin, Mark, Heart Day!Happy Valentines Day-take two Four years has been Qreat with the same Crls, Matt, Doug, Dave & Dan:Dear John I, Compliments of Blazek and Boland Inc. (Two In one day, a world and olympic roommate. Don't thtnk that I jest, you Ours is astrange and wonderful relation­Another year and I'm still dreaming Serving the NO Community Since 1976 record) deserved the best! ship. You guys are strange and we'reabout "Big Mac" attacks! -LAP Happy V-Day! wonderful! Hapy Valentines Day!!Happy Vafentlnes Day! Tex Wilson,Joanne, Mary &RosanneLove Always Mary Thanx for being there. Shakespeare, To the most adorable, charming, ravash­Your Valentine? Shall I compare thee to a winters ing, intelligent,. and absolutely wonderfulOJ, CALIFORNIA GIRL, snowflake? Thou art more unique, and dining hall worker aguy could ever meet.For better or for worse, I love you. Happy V. Day! Love those green shorts Happy Valentines Day to Lisa Gaslorek thou hadst made my smile inconquerlble. Beth, you're something special.B.K. and also to the rest of 5th floor ReginaPortia love me Hot Tang in J-town: North--Sue, D. Speed,· Bo-Peep, Muck, L.P., Will you be my valentine? Will you keep Kluck, Tessl and Cathy. . Sharon, Jean Frederick,Seras-tu rna "Valentine"? Dites "oui" me? Puttt---------­·You've made me very happy, I'm really What are you going to do now that youou je seraI tache·! Rusty Jones P.F. (K.C.),glad you're mine, This little poem Is can't get rid of me'? Happy Valentine'sAvec Amour, Ton medecin futur, JME You make me so very Happy! Smile and meant to say I love you, Valentine! Kevin Day. To my "Special" Joan, enjoy on our first V-Day together!'L&KSuz, Hey babe, it's been agraeat 10 months! Sheep-Munk LoverJohn FrederickGoober. Happy V-Day! This year apersonal is no Thanks for all the good times and for just It's the second time around for both you problem! being you. Will you be my Valentine too? Lucifer,Gregory Alfred.and me, Love, Why do you go through Hell at SMCOh western wind, when wilt thou blowThe second time 'round we've experienc: Pete Polcari: Art when you can be in Heaven at Badin andthe small rain down can rain? Christ, ifed V.D.It's been fun, exciting, clean outt Thanks for calling! I'm hurt... Lyons.my love were in my arms and-I in my bedsight hoP.e we'll spend another, together, Happy Valentines Day anyway 267, Happey Valentines Dayagain!Tonight Anne Blue is a violet, Red is a Rose, Be my . The Luncheon C I ubElizabeth AnneHappy Valentines Day sweetheart and wash my cloths Love Ya, Goog LULU, Love,Happy Valentine's Day to all my "Bus­Mardi,It's great to have you here!! Thought not 266iness friends." Too bad you guys don't I love ya; Kerbert does too--he's glad youBob (the Night Clerk) always present, you're always on my have a jock major like CHEG -you could had a talk with him. He's such anH.F.b.B.O.S.M.A! mind. I loves you. Rocky JP,visit me In Corby's more often. (Chris -unassertive frog. Happy Valentines DayI.L.Y. Happy Valentines Day! Love sickmom and dad say hi) roomie.Sue Para el Loquillo Love you all, puppies come in handy on a day like Your private nurse Tu admiradora de SMC Mary Beth today-and you're the cutest one I know! To Tex and the other guys from Carroll "S" Love, Putti,Hall-Sorry ·I missed your party Mary AnneHerbie, Yor're a great work of art. the Masters To Frank, Kaz, Jack, Stu, Bernie, Frank, Two popcorn arm and a big smooch couldn't have done· better. HappyJulie Hills: Joey, Bigil, Pup-tent,Duke, Bob, Rich, coming your way. What's your RBI? NANCY MORRIS, Valentines Day."If you did everything you wanted to do, Dean, Steve, Jack B, Drew, Mike, Danny, Love always, Happy Valentines Day to a NUTTY but The Luncheon Club you dbe in trouble." True, but how dull! Billy P, PBM, Paul L, Ron Margie nice girl from someplace called MON­What about mischievous young boys? Roses are Red TANA. Mikey C.,Hope you are as good with newspaper Our hearts are blue Julie, Guess who! Barb who? HappyV.D.lines as voices. Happy V-Day love. This will be our last Happy Valentines Day! No sense in me TTT plus 1 V-D with you! writing something clever because you Pittsburgh -steel blue eyes,OBSERVER STAFF: All our love, probably won't read it anyway. Happy Valentine's Day! Should someone Ka,I hate classifieds but I do love you all! Kathy. Maureen C., Maureen F. Rose­ME ask who's touched your heart, perhaps Wanna cause problems? Happy Valen­Mom mary & Caryn. you'll answer "Andrew's friend." qet tines DayLulu, psyched for Friday! B.LML-To a fine woman, even if she is a Texan. Looking forward to tonite. Love, Let's go away for good! I love you. Happy Valentine's Day. I love you. Your 1and only valentine, me Mort,JBC3 P.D. Herman Have you found us a ride yet. Next timeDeb and Doug, you'll owe me a pizza, I have too muchWhat made us friends in the long ago .Kev, Dear Kathy, Happy Valentines Day! 129 more days to work to do so I can't study. Happywhen we met? I think I know... Happy Happy· Valentines Day! Thanks tor Happy Valentines Day!!! Now that I go. (Who's counting?) Valentine's DayValentines Day, Mike! maktng my last year here so terrific. know you can cook, let's get married ... Love, Love,Love, sound familiar? Seriously, have a great Ren FalafelAJG* SLH* DPP Lisa day!!!What can we say (besides that which we All My Love Always, Lulu, • Lucifer with the Blue Eyes,shouldn't say in public)? For all the Happy Valentines Day to Ceil, Claudine, Steve A special valentine wish to a Sunday It's not.nice to pick on freshman. Happylaughs, embarassments, entertainment, Leslie, Anita, and anyone else I missed in Special. VD.and friendship we've shared, and in the other message. Chris, Fr. Mike The Luncheon Clubadvance for our own very personal Putt Thanks for being such awonderful friend personals, thanks! and always being there when I need you. Space, PuttiBaldy, Bulwlnkle Buzzed Does dope really impair sexual activity?Happy Valentine's Day Patrick. Happy Valentines Day! PuttiHope you are abel to have a happy VD.Love and kisses, Take care, PuttiTT plus 1"Ert" Patti lndi PutiOn those days when nobody wants to Putiknow you-Ray-Bee,To my Polish-American Princess, Anne and Carl, Wanna fly away with us. Happy VDdon't forget about me. Happy Valentines Day to one super How big Is an average zucchini? Is It twoDie-me Booshik. Happy Valentine's Day. The Luncheon Club"Bernie" times Jim, plus MD, plus CE, minus aLove, roomie and two great jogging buddies. twerp, and divided by a jock? MaybeBaboots Take care of each other. Mike C.,TO LG: The best Valentine I've ever had. Love, someday you'll find out. Have you seen any Big Brown EyesLove BG lndl Your pseudo-rhumiesMeine Liebling, lately? Have you caught any Big Brown Du bist wunderbar! Eyes Lately? Have you felt any BigGILLES VILLENUEVE Cindy, To the ex-quad (a/k/a 218 or 104); Brown Eyes lately? If feeling isNow that I have your attention, "Theres All my love on this day and everyday. Happy Valentines day! It's been alongHey Gussie and V! believing don't hold your breath! Havehamburger all over the highway In Celebrate me home! time since I have related my love via theHappy Valentine's Day to two absolutely a Great Day.Mystic, Connecticut." Love, personals, but that Is no sign of waningfabulous people! TTT plus 1Love, 112 Michael feelings!! CSPTMighty mouth? B.  
either Institution. The news ts EDITORIAL BOARD reported as accurately ano as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilsonr-The Observer_ of as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray 0 'Bnen Executive Editor ........ john Calculi Features Editor . . . . . . . . . Chris Stewart• Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executi·Je Editor ...... Barb Langhenry Photo Editor ...... , ... ,Doug Christian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor . . . . . . . Rosemary Mills per published by ·students of the Colwnn space is available to all mem­Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cacldey Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Saint Mary's Editm . . . . . . FJien Butitiy Business Manager ........ john Tucker Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor ........~­..... Ann Gales Advenising Manager ........ Bob Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis  

J ) f.··
• J 
.,.' 

The Observer Wednesday, February 14, 1979 -page 9 
-

High demand causes ticket shortage 
All l~t;>lllll~ f)f ()ctllt::t;>



~.ND 
for parents' weekend president's dinner 
byjohn Ferroli 
Due to an unusual amount of ticket requests, a total of thirty families must be denied seating for the Feb. 24 president's dinner duringJunior Parents Weekend. "Stepan Center was built to seat only 1600," said )PW chairman Mike Kenney, ' and we're al­ready seating 2100." 
According to Kenney, the in­formation packet sent to Junior parents asked that they only request three tickets, but many 
families  have  requested  more.  
"There have been 2170  tickets  
requested  as  of now,"  stated  

Kenney, ''and there are still more Juniors and parents that want to get in." 
Kenney withheld the request of families who desired additional 
. Commission 
[Continued from page .5] gated schooltng. Flemming acknowledged Con­gress has taken an anti-busing turn, but he said that is because the foes of integration, thou~h outnumbered, are more persis­tent than the opponents of segre­gation. The commission has no en­forcement power, but is required by law to evaluate the status of school desegregation across the nation from time to time. The repon said the latest figures available indicated that 
4.9 million minority children in the country attend schools that are at least "moderately" segre­gated -and more of them are in the Nonheast and the Nonh Central region of the country than in the DeeJ? South. 
For the nauon overall, 46 percent of minority youngsters attend segregated schools, it said. In the Nonheast, 65 percent of minority children do, and in the Nonh Central re~ion it. is 68 percent, the comrrussion said. No figure was given for the South alone. 

The repon singled out for criticism appropriations bill riders co-sponsored by Sens. Joseph Biden, D-Del. , and Thomas Eagleton, D-Mo., that would prevent HEW ''from re­quiring srudent transportation where it is the only remaining means to eliminate segregated schools." 
Neither senator was available for comment. 
The commission said the amendments "undermined the ability of the executive and the judictal branches to guarantee the nation's children and young people their constitutional rights." 
Dear CILA, 
G 
You wouldn't forget Ubi amor ibi ocylys­
where there is love, there is seeing no Valentine's Day 
or Valentine's Day,­would you? (I might-but you wouldn't!). Love, c:;Jc::; Joseph Evans 
tickets until the Feb. 4 deadline, optimistic about the weekend, 
and then ftlled post-deadline however, and mentioned that he orders on a frrst-come, frrst-serve 
had "a most surprising return" basis. Families who ordered 
of ticket requests for the break­tickets after the deadline were 
fast scheduled for Sunday, Feb. those put on the waiting list. 25. He also stressed that he was Parents and students who have proud of the way his committee been denied tickets for the dinner 
had handled the dinner situation. r have already been contacted, "Our only problem," he re-Kenner. stated. In compensation, 
marked, "ts that it's been such a they wdl be offered tickets to the 
success.'' ND-Lasalle basketball game Kenney urges all Juniors who scheduled for the same night. 
want refunds on the dinner to Kenney emphasized that pre­contact him or his committee vious coordinators of Junior 
before the Weekend arrives. He Parents Weekend never encoun­also encourages any Juniors who tered this kind of problem. He are not planning to use their believed the problem may be due 
Lasalle basketball ticket to bring to an extraordinarily large Junior 
them to LaFortune Center today class. "We might want to or tomorrow from 12-1 p.m. or consider using Century Center from 3-5 J?.m., whenJuruors will next year,'' Kenney noted. be reservmg table space for the 
Kenney preferred to remain dinner. 

SMC 
THEATRE 
Jt;>l>ructr-, 1() ~ 11 Sal() JliTl ()'l()u~lillll Auclltf)rlurn Aclrnl§§lf)ll I§ frt;>t;> 
1:-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 

-
Next time you get hungry for some­thing really good to eat, head for Hardee's. And bring a friend and this coupon with you. It'll get you the best eatin' in town, up 'n' down, all around. And lots of it. Hardee's Best Eatin' Special. Two of the biggest, most special tastin' sandwiches you have ever sunk your teeth into. And at a price that's real special, too. So special, you're gonna think Hardee's is downright crazy to charge so little for so much fine eatin'. 

i---iiiE BEn lATIN'SPECIAL: fl I TWO DEUCIOUS BIG ROAST BEEF il I SANDWICHES FOR ONLY*t.99. il 
Good at all participating Hardee's. Please present this coupon before ordering. ~I I One coupon per customer, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due on the purchase price. This coupon not good in combination with any other offers.
I I-104 Hively, Elkhart -500 W. Bristol, Elkhart Ha 
-23845 _u.s. 33 East, ~Ikhart ..~,,~ F•b. 28, 1979 I -1116Lincoln Way, Mishawaka 1G~s•® Coupon exp;res
L 


I ---------------...1 


-
The Observer Wednesday, February 14, 1979-page 10 
• • • Iran

,.
Molarity, Michael Molinelli 
MASOtJ, WE'VE 6DNE rngovGH l 






RBAR 
7&7's -Gin &Tonic Beer 3 for $1 Rum & Coke ALL 50' Hours 9pm--2am 
[Continued from page 1] 
weekend street violence that marked the collapse of the shah­appointed government of Shah­pour Bakhtiar on Sunday. 
Bakhtiar was arrested yester­day by armed guerrillas. He was taken blindfolded to Khomeini's headquarters and was reported to have been under protection of Khomeini's prime minister, Mehdi Bazargan, after raiders ransacked his home on the out­skirts of Tehran. 
Khomeini aides said they did not know what charges Bakhtiar would face. "He is a prisoner of the government," one said. "I assume he will be tried to find out whether or not he is guilty." 
In his nationwide address yes­terday, Khomeini said: "I con­gratulate the nation on the success of the revolution. We will all have to work together under the banner of Islam to build the country. ' ' 
He forbade attacks on military or police installations and prom­ised--that all relgious minorities will be able to ' 'ltve in peace and prosperity in the new era in Iran. " 
Reliable sources reported that unknown assailants opened fire on Bazargan' s offices early Tues­day. 
At the time Bazargan was meeting in the offices with Karim Sanjaby, his newly appointed foreign minister. The sources said no one was injured and the two men were rushed back to Khomeini headquarters. 
Sanjaby, 74, served as the leader of the National Front, a coalition of several liberal parties that opposed the rule of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and supported the man who ousted the shah for a time in the early 1950s, Mohammed Mossadegh. 

The National· Front's official spokesman, Dariush Forouhar, was selected as labor minister. 
Western diplo~ts said the selection of leading National Front figures indicated that Bazargan, a human rights activist and former Front member, was seeking to broaden support be­yond the religious community that had been at the forefront of the. anti-shah struggle. 
Sanjaby, who holds a doctorate in law from the University of Paris, was snubbed by Khomeini two weeks ago when the Moslem religious leader rerurned from 14 years in exile. The fact that Sanjaby was selected for the provisional government probably was a result of Bazargan's influ­ence. 
American diplomats reportedly have met privately in recent days with Sanjaby and were pleased with the appointment. 
As the new government struggled to take hold, Tehran's streets were in marked contrast to the past few days, when armed bands roamed through the city with automatic weapons jutting from car windows. 
Guns visible yesterday appear­ed to be those of authorized "Islamic police" standing ~d outside public buildmgs. Mosques are now the centers of local security organizations and are sending out armed watchmen to guard neighborhoods at the request of local residents_. 
Front leaders have generally espoused what could be consid­ered moderately leftist views, but the new government is certain to avoid military ties with either maior world power. 
Doonesbury 
by Trudeau 


IKIIJ?avnc YfAH, 8tJT IF 

rvv• rvr:-, I 011), I'O 8& IT'5 ~ ONCOF THe TRUE, 
A JlJB! FIRST HIT! 6/JNY. 
( 

Records---• 
. "'"" New Low
& c Regular Prices 
c cs All s7.98 LP's
-
..... 
only 54.99 

All 58.98 LP'~ only ss.99 
Flannet Records ·603 Flanner Phone: 4256 
Hours: Mon-Thurs 4:00-5: 
6:30-8:00 
Sun. 6:30-8:00 

The Observer Wednesday, February 14, 1979 -page 11 
AFROTC to host conclave 
by janet Rigaux responsible for the event's orga­
nization. This weekend promises to be Th conclave is being held to an exciting one for the Notre bring together the Air Force Dame Air Force ROTC which is ROTC detachment of 24 area sponsoring the annual bi-area colleges so they may discuss ROTC conclave. The conclave polictes, present awards, and begins at noon on Friday, Feb. have fun. Some of the events 16, and will continue through planned f~r. t~e conclave in~lude noon on Sunday, Feb. 18. The such actiVIties as meetmgs, conclave will be held at the luncheons, award ceremonies, Century Center. cocktail hours, and dancing. 
Notre Dame is host of the event According to Mike Herrmann, a this year because they put forth member of ND' s Air Force ROTC the highest bid. Notre Dame's detachmeqt' 'Saturday will be the Arnold Air Socity and Angel big day of the conclave since that Flight organization have been is a~y most activities are planned 
for. 
One of the highlights of Satur· day will be the speech given at the luncheon by Major General 
Leroy W. Svendsen, Jr. Svend­
... Ski 

sen functions in a dual ca,Pactiy as Assistant Deputy Chief of 
[Continued from page 12] 
Staff, for Manpower and Military slalom, only one-hundredth of a Personnel, and as Commander, second behind Byrne. Air Force Manpower and Person­
Other places went to Powers, nel Center (AFMPC), Randolph nimh in the slalom and four­Air Force Base, Texas. Svendsen teenth overall, followed by Jeff is ·responsible for the overall Whitten, eleventh in the slalom force distribution and manage­and fifteenth overall. ment of all Air Force military 
D' A'l_uila earne? 85 of ~e personnel except general offi­women s 125 potnts, earnmg cers. bronze medals in the slalom and Another important Air Force combined time events and fourth man who will be speaking at the in the giant slalom. Freshman conclave is Dr. John J. Martin, Patti Wilson encountered some . an ND graduate. Maron is assist­problems in the slalom, but came ant secretary of the Air Force. back to take tenth in the giant Some of the schools that will be slalom. Nachess finished sixth in represented at the conclave are the slalom and eleventh in the Kent State, the University of giant slalom, seventh place over­Evansville, the University of all. Duffy sustained a knee injury Michigan, as well as many other in the slalom race, and will be out schools from Ohio, Indiana, and for the rest of the season. Michigan. 
The Irish will travel to Brule Fr. Hesburgh and other well Mountain next weekend to known ND personalities such as defend their championship title Dr. Emil T. Hofman will also be in a qualification race for the making appearances at the con­Nationals. clave. 

All classified ads must be received by 5 00 p.m .. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office Will accept classitieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All
Classifieds cla~>ifieds must be pre-paid. either m person or through the matl. 
Notices 
Accurate, fast tyf'ng. Mrs. Bedford 288·2107 Hours: am to 5 pm. 
lntere~ In learning more about the life of a other. Sister or Priest In the Church tod'lr.? Come to adiscussion and film In the arle~ Hall lounge, ThursdayFebruary 15, 19 9 at 9:30 pm or talk to 
the Indiana Car'~J:r Renewal Team In the library foyer ednesday evening or during the day on Thursday. 
The Senior Arts Festival Is looking for phot~aphers. Ant interested seniors can su mit their wor to Sybil Young 317 Badin or Kevin Pritchett 124 Keenan. 
Applications for Student Union Director and Com~troller are now available In the 
S. U. of CtlS, 2nd floor LaFortune.. ~pllcatlons must be returned by Feb. 
Interviews will be held on Feb. 27. If you have questions, or would like a copy of the rules for the selection process, please call n57. 
Lost&Found 
Found: 1sharp calculator at the A.C.C. locker room. Call Pat at 3898 to Identify. 
Found: Keys Friday night between Zahm and Farlerr. Claim at Lost and Found In Ad. build ng. 
Found: Brown. light-brown, and off-white striped scarf In Farley on Screw Your Roommate niPrht. Claim at Lost & Found In Ad Build ng. 
Lost: set of keys (Bkon a capricorn key ring. Please call 2 ·1893 and ask for Dave or Mark. 
Lost: At N D a sterling sliver Mexican braet~let with 4sections. Please call Meg 4781. 
Lost: One college class ring-St. John Fisher College Call 272·9841. 
Lost: one crutch outside of the Library about a week and a half ~· If you've seen this crutch alive. call Ike at 1678. 
Lost: To the person who "Found" my book and notebook In room 202 business bldg., please return. Call Pat, 1474. 
Found: Dooley's green hat on bus 232 from Canda. Please call Tea Rm 211 Lyons. 
Lost: a black down ski jacket with greenand blue stripes on the shoulders at the South Dining Hall on Sunday Feb. 11. Keys and prescription sunB'asses In the pocket. Reward offered. all 6322. 
Lost: NO class ring. LeMans lobby or . parkin~ lot black Onyx stone. Reward. Call Bll1247. 
I lost abeautiful grey scarf at Senior Bar about two weeks ago. If found call Bob 1817. You'll have my undying gratitude. 

For Rent 
Available for next year 5-bedroom home-completely furnished. Call NancyHumbarger 234·9364. 
Furnished four bedroom house for rent couple blocks from campus for next school year. 2n-3604. 
Big Country House for rent furnished, el~ht to ten minutes travel, for next sc ool year. 2n-3604. 
Immediate Occupancy! Room for one, with private phone and use of entire house. On the river, near campus. Call 234·2662. 

Wanted 
Wanted: A ride to Chi. or Milwaukee area for Feb. 16 Beth 4-5142. 
Need ride to Uof Illinois -Champaign on Feb. 16 Mark 1863. 
Need ride to Miami of Ohio (or that direction; Cln., D~on, even lndl.,) on Frl Feb 16. Paul 1. 
Need ride to Milwaukee Thurs. 15 or Fri. 16 call Pat 8479. 

healthy skepticism toward pOliti­cians and the contempt and cynicism that has come about because of past political scandals that betrayed the public trust. 
"Erosion of trust is a serious problem. Free societies won't work without the trust of the pe?ple living in the societies,'' he satd. 
Ruckelshaus stated that a lack of great leaders is not the cause of governmental problems; the conditions of leadership are not present. He ran down a list of presidents in US history that were considered great, and noted that all served in a time of war or national crisis. 
''People are leaving Congress more often now because it's not 
• Ex-EPA chief speaks 
. eni.oyable," he said. One reason 
for this, he said, is that they have 
to divide into too many issues to 
keep their constituents happy. 
He used as an example the 
environment--a big issue in the 
early 70's. In that period, 
everyone was environment 
conscious. EPA laws passed 
promised clean air, water, land 
by certain dates and sparked 
many to the task of working for a 
"clean" environment. 
Ruckelshaus said people 
measured actual pro~ress in 
cleaning up the envtronment 
against unachievable perfection, 
which made the results seem 
small by comparison. 
"People don't want any laws 
changed, but want something 
done," Ruckelshaus said. "Most people are idealogicaJ conserva­tives and operational liberals.': 
He also made the point that the environmental concerns are not politically partisan. He said that 1t is the responsibility of every individaul-not just the govern­ment-to spot a problem and seek a solution. He said that this is the result of people's diversity and freedom to do what they want. 
Ruckelshaus ended with the 
·comment that in a truly free system ''there is a need for cooperation.'' The government and business organizations should be on the same side so that ''we can demonstrate free­dom to the rest of the world by demonstrationg success, but tt takes trust," he said. 
Interested In Summer Ca~ Jobs? Counselors-Instructors want for pres· ~e, private boys and girls camps near 
alamazoo. 
Lawrenetl Seeger 
1765 Maple

Northfield, IL. 60093 
Need ride to Uof Mich. on March 2 and ride back after the game of the 4th. If you can help call Mike at 3889. 
Overseas Jobs-Summer/year round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc. 
All fields, $500-$1200 monthly. Exp­enses paid. Slghtseeinj. Free Info.­Write: IJC, Box 4490-1 , Berkeley, CA 94704. 
Barmaid wanted a~ply In Person at Nickles Tues. Thru hurs. after 8 pm. 
Desparate! Need ride this weekend to Milwaukee for 1-Call SMC 4007. 
For Sale 
---· WI Bus· Exet~llent collegiate car! Best offer. call 3489 for details. 
Woman's skates size 7. Great Condition. Call late evenings 8145. 
For sale: Rugged winter boots. Excellent condition. Dark brown size 81/2. $25.00 Call Jeff at 1525. 
n MGB wreen, 7000 miles full factory warrant~, perfect condition. $4850. 28!H48. 
Off Campus Students! Full Size refriger­ator for sale $60 1787 ask for Peter. 
For Sale: Hocked! skates. pads, etc. Good quality and con Ilion. Call Don, 1684. 
Used Book.Shop: Wed., sat., Sun. 9-7 Ralph Casrsrson 1303 Buchanan Rd Niles. 683-888. 
Must sell. 1976 Toyota longbed truck. Low mileage. Excellent condition. $1500. Work evenlnis. Call after 11:00 pm. Ask for Curly 2 7-4562. 
Tickets 
Urgent~ require 2 GA LaSalle tlx! Call 
Czechoslovakian brother-
John" K" Julien at 1n1. 
Happy Birthday! Meet us at the nearest national monument.
Need 2 GA Tix for LAsalle B·Ball game Foxes
Call Tim at 8440. 
"Oh Dear!" Ann.
Desperately need 2-4 GA tickets for Some creative suagestlons: "By Golly;"
LAsalle game. Call 3836. 
"Gee Whiz;" " ood Gosh;" or, When really desperate. "Holy Cow! " 
Hal~! Urgently need 2GA L1sailf! tickets Cal 6725. I 
Beth from Badin, Wanted: 2 GA L1 salle Tickets Call Watch out for Innocent squirrels. Marlbeth 3845. Thanks. 
Attention All Ancient Civilization Club
Personals w. 
Members! There will be ameetlni at 11:00 a.m. on
COMMUNICATIONS CLUB HAPPY Friday, Feb. 16, In the nclent Clv Office
HOUR* THURS. 4-7 II LEE'S. EVERY1 (room G-234 Memorial Library) to discuss
ONE INVITED. 
the upcoming formal. All who rtan to attend the formal must be presen .
Augusta-Closer to Heaven. 
. 

Mark Foresman,
M.B. O'Higgins How Is this for your ego, "You are anThe disco queen turns 221 You're not ASS" !I
getting older. you're getting better. You 
17??

still have to drink 17 shots. Happybirthday MB (little late) 
The continuing "Advlnturta of Pana1111
Love, Jean & DO 

Red," To on-campus comedy-adventure-P.S. Happy birthday Diane "Hands" action series today looks In on our hero as
Rausea. 

he attempts to study for a "reflective­conscious awareness" Theology test,
Great moments In Augusta Literary Dorm while recuperating from a squirrel bite.
life! Episode 2: Hamlet ponders Which he received on Sunday whileIndecisively: "To live In Augusta or not 
defendl~ an aged priest from a hungry
to live In Augusta, that Is the question." 
~k of ler squirrels on the south qu1d. y tuned for The next 14 days as
Roses are Red 
Pan11111 receives his dally rabies Injection
Violets are Blue Orest Is gone 
Dear Michael,
Now who?? 
Je t'alme! 
K

Green peanut M & Ms really do work! Only 4 more days until the red-head
Thomas Joseph Cowboy: I want to be brunch. Be there.
roped. Beth Willard
Tim, You wanted apersonal so bad so her It is.

You're the one who's special 
I'll still try to find out the name of "that
Two!! I 

guy" for you. Your forgetful counterpart on Sundays
Forget redheads. Join the Bruetl League 
Susie Meyers
No Chartetl I'll get CJ Red draw two 
What's this about never getting 
I 
TD 

personals. We find that hard to believe.
Q B&D 
You shouldn't have done that 
TO cyQ (jQQ 9
CJ 

.. 6 , ,_ • , ., • ., ,.,..,,....,1 • · • • ...~, tr ,. ,.,~ ....,. .. 

•;-t I 

r 
. , 

A very wise man once pointed out that it's easy to smile when the sun is shining. As in, it's easy
.. for a star football player to say how murh he loves . Craig Notre Dame when he's somewhere berween playing for a national championship team and 

Chval 
being drafted by the NFL. But for others, it's not so easy. The broad grin 

wasn't goins to play very much when I first ~ot
doesn't come as guickly when the mounds of 
here, but I didn't think it would be until my juruor 
gray . snow outstd~ are . a pr~tty accur,:tte year,' ' admits Salinas.
retlecnon of how you re feehng mstde. 
"It was a big change to sit out a lot," Salinas
When Gilbert Salinas says that he wants to stay 
says. "I was mentally prepared for it, but to
at Notre Dame, the words don't just go in one ear 
actually be in that position--well, it hurt.
and out the other. They tend to sink in. 
Sometimes I didn't feel that I was a part of the
' 'I want to stay her-e for the academics,' ' insists 
team because I wasn't able to contribute a lot."
• Notre Dame's 6-foot-11 sophomore. "I would be 
Salinas speaks matter-of-factly and with no
stupid if I let little things take me away from 
trace of braggadocio when referring to his
something that I've always wanted." 
sterling prep career in San Antonio, Texas. "In
It seems sadly ironic that academics, the 
high school, I had all of the attention in the state
big~est reason Salinas lists as influencing his 
upon me--up here I had to start all over." 
decision to attend Notre Dame, are causing him 
But Salinas feels that the worst is behind him
to miss the second half of the basketball season. 
both academically and in terms of basketball. ' 
Despite .the disappointment of being declared 
'Tm in a valley right now, and I'm going to start
scholastically ineligible, though, Salinas is trying 
to reach my peak next year. I know that I can play 
to make the best of the situation by working out · 
here, it's just that if you want something good, 
with the squad. 

you have to work for lt.''
''Digger (Phelps) told me that I would still be 
With centers Bruce Flowers and Bill I..aimbeer 
practicing,'' explains Salinas, ''but I was all for it 
due to graduate in June, the pivot posicion is a
anyway. In a way, it's better. Knowing that I'm 
primary concern in Digger Phelps' recruiting
the oppositon, I'm free to run the offense--I don't 
scheme. Salinas realizes that fact, and looks upon 
have to worry about being mentally prepared for it as a challenge.
the next game." 

"If I can't beat out the freshmen next year,
While he doesn't have to bother himself with 
then I don't deserve to be on the court--if I don't 
preparing for the next game on Notre Dame's play next year, it will be my fault." 
schedule, Gilbert is preparing--for next season. The Notre Dame ski team competed.
"Everything is ~oing to start falling into place 
''I'm lifting weights again, and I'm already traveled to Ohio last weekend to Nora Duffy led the women to a
for me next year,' says Salinas. "It will be just 
gaining confidence. for next year.'' take on ten Ohio schools in the third-place award in Saturday's
like dominoes." 
The prospect of next season is about all Salinas rwo-day Ohio Govemor' s Cup­race. Duffy won the bronze
And after all the dominoes have fallen, it's a
has to show for a season and a half at Notre Ohio State Championships dual medal in the slalom and took
good bet that Gilbert Salinas will be left standing. 
Dame. ''I think I had my mind programmed that I meet. sixth in the giant slalom. Captain 
The men's team finished Muggs D' Aquila took fourth and second in Saturday's Ohio Gover­freshman Reni Nacheff fmished nor's Cup. Mike Quinlevan led ninth in the giant slalom race. 
the Irish by taking home a gold In Sunday's Ohio State Cham­medal in both the slalom and poionships, the men took first the combined time slalom-giant place, while the women trailed slalom, earning 86 of Notre only Bowling Green. Dame's 143 points. Quinlevan was outstanding 
Also scoring for the Irish were again on Sunday, as he took first MADISON, Wis. [AP] -The an NHL rink with an NHL youth hockey,'' Johnson said. Pete Rowland, taking ninth and in the giant slalom and second in ·:we s~ould eleventh place in· the slalom and slalom, earning the first place
1976 U.S. Olympic hockey coach referee." be building indoor says he's not surprised that a Johnson said he hopes the nnks like communities build giant slalom, respectively, and combined race cup. Russian hockey team took rwo out shock of the losses has a positive swi~ming pools and public Jim Byrne, who fmished tenth in Byrne was close behind,.as ne . 
both· races. Nelson Ziter took took third in the giant slalom and 
of three games· from a team of effect. tenrus courts; fifth in the slalom for fourth place 
National Hockey League all-stars "It's the greatest thing that "And why not bring the thirteenth in the slalom, and last week. · could have happened,'' he said, Russians over here and ask them team captain Ben Powers fin~ overall. Senior Pete Rowland "Why? Because they are because it mtght return North to conduct a clinic? Let them tell ished seventeenth in the giant finished fourth in the giant 
better,'' said Bob Johnson, American players to the basics. how they do it." slalom. A total of 105 male racers [Continued on page 11] whose University of Wisconsin ''There are too many one-hour hockey squad has won rwo NCAA hockey players in North rides m the last five years. . America," he said. "Too many "Systems didn't beat the NHL. kids who think if they practice 
It was fundamentals. They are one hour a day, they will be ... better at the fundamentats of the successful.'' game,'' Johnson said of the Johnson said he was most Editor's Note: Friday's ve~sion of this column 
Soviets. "They skate, they pass, impressed with the fundamentals 
lost some ofthe true meaning in the copyreader's they shoot. They work on the and puck handling of the Soviet translation. In fact, Bill Hanzlik dtd not cover Ray
fundamentals. You can talk team. 
8rad Holland [maybe that was the secret to the 
about complicating the _game, but ''They took every pass on the 
loss]. While sportsum'ters try and analyze every 

O'Vac
hockey is still the fundamentals. fly, at tt>p speed, " he marveled. 
facet in picking a winner, Sunday's game came 
And they practice them,'' he ''Their off-ice conditioning 
down to the two teams trying to puta ball through 
said. . showed in their legs. They took 
a hole. Here is what O'Brien really meant to say. 
Johnson, who guided the U.S. tough checks and just kept right transcontinental plane ride from Monongahela Pennsylvania. Another good omen. ' 
team to a fourth place fmish at on moving." 
There's going to be a hot time in the old town 
Innsbruck, said he took notes Until changes are made, he Another significant key will be Mike Mitchell
Sunday, as the UCLA Bruins visit our gladiators
during Sunday's televised 6-0 said, the Soviets, who became ~e improving novice frosh who is still learning n;
in green at the ACC, so put on your dancing 
Russian thrashing of. the NHL interested in hockey barefy 30 his first year. He's who I'll be watching Sunday. 
shoes and wake up the: echoes as you yell at 
stars. years ago, will continue to dom­And let's not fo!get Tracy Jackson, the steady 
Messrs. Greenwood, Hamilton, and Holland, who 
mate. performer who ts noted for his constantly''The NHL has no excuses,'' he will wear numbers 34, 24 and 14 unless their 
said. "The Russians ciune and "Maybe the NHL will take consistent outings. I'll be watching him, too.
uniforms get lost on their way here. 
beat the NHL at the ciine they some of their pension money now There's just never any telling what will happen 
Facing the Bruins' pivot eager for the Irish will 
wanted to play, with~ rules in and put it into the development of when these rwo teams get together, although
be a big boy by the name of Flowers, who comes there are a lot of things you can usually predict. 
from Huntington Woods, Michigan, and that's R~y Hamilton is a great ballhandler and will·deal only a short drive from Monogohela, Pennsyl­
The Notre Dame basketball off a lot of passes unless the Irish happen to put
vania, and we all know who came from there. 
an octopus on him; Kelly Tripucka will get his .15
team was selected third in both Maybe that's a good sign for the Irish. I'm 
wire service polls released yes­betting it is. or 20 points if he isn't cold and misses a lot of Although Indiana State shots; and Dave Batton will the opening
r terday. Anyway, I know who I'll be watching tonight can 
I was ranked ahead of Ua.A in the ~uck~t if they let him come back from Italy to play 
I­for the boys in blue and gold (light blue, that is) 
I AP poll, the Bruins took the top m this barnburner for the boys clad in green and 
I and that's Brad Holland, the high scoring guard 
I-gold.
spot in the UPI by a narrow who scores a lot of points. But don't forget a guy 
Did you see Stan Wt.lcox throw that pass away 
.....~_,-. margin over the Sycamores. by the name of Hanzlik who wears number 42 for 
· in the last prne driving in the lane? Did you then the green and gold. He's a great defensive guard see Wt.lcox dribble the ball off his foot on a breakwho usually prevents his man from scoring much. 
-·-! l-. 30 seconds later? Then you know that the Silk
He isn!t much of an offensive threat, but he can man has been having a hard time handling the old 
' .-. sure put the vinyl., and rubber through the old sphere in the last few encounters. The law of 
--~ 

twines. if his deadeye ttets hot. . 
averages is in favor of his having a good game. 
The lnterhall track meet will be I think the most significant key to the epic 
That's who I'll be watching Sunday, unless I
held on Tuesday, Feb. 20th at battle will be Rich Branning, the cool quarterback 
watch somebody else. Anyway, I may be wrong 9:30pm in the A.C.C. fieldhouse. who never bends under pressure in the pocket 
All persons who have signed up but I think this will be a typical clash berween the 
and always manages to throw the old round gr~en and gold arid blue and gold. 
for the meet are asked to be on. pigskin into the hands ofawaiting receivers under time. the goal. Rich is from Oilifornia, just a by Kevin Flynn 





