
VOL. XIII, NO. 69 '/ · an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, ANUARY 25, 1979 
Housing shortage_ forces transfers 0-C 
by Rily McGrath Senior StaffReporter 
According to Edmund Price, director of University Housing, all transfer and readmitted students who were given rooms on camJ?US this semester have been required to sign a disclaimer to "any housmg on campus for the fall semester of 1979 or any other period." 
This procedure is in compliance with one of the Campus Life Council's proposals, submitted last October, designed to alleviate the need for an off-campus lottery. 
Price noted that the University ''would be glad to house everyone, had we the spaces." However, the tendency for more students to choose on-campus housing for all four years has recently led to housin~ shortages each fall. 
The Student Residences' section of the College Bulletin are generally required to live on campus, and sophomores are guaranteed on-campus housing if they desire it. Junior and senior students are able to remain on campus "if space ts available," according to the guidelines. 
"Transfer students don't have a commitment from the University to provide housing," Price commented. Therefore, since transfer students have the lowest housing priority, they will be the first students required to move off camr.us if necessary. This will occur if fewer rooms are vacated voluntartly than are needed to house next year's freshman class. 
"We hope no one will be affected adversely," Price said, referring to the transfer students and members of this year's junior class. The 35 transfer students who have been given on-campus space this semester, although they will not be eligible for upcoming room picks, will be the first in line to receive on-campus housing for the '79-'80 school year if it is available. 
Although some individuals may be disrupted by the situation, Price points out th~t the goal of the University Housing office is to ''provide the best situation for the most students.'' This means making the best of a difficult situation. 

More students apply for RA positions 
byJohn Ferroli 
A number of Notre Dame resi­
dence halls are confronted with a 
large number of applicants for 
the 1979-80 resident assistant 
(RA) positions. A large and 
enthusiastic Junior class ac­
counts for the increase in the 
number of applicants, according 
to various rectors, who feel that 
this may complicate the selection 
process. 
Fr. Conyers, rector of Keenan, has received 46 applications for six positions, and he believes that "all of the 46 would make good RAs. '' Last year, Conyers re­ceived only 28 applications for the six jobs. "This year's Junior class is the largest--they are very involved and enthusiastic,'' Con­yers commented. 
Morrissey Hall will face a similar l?roblem with 33 appli­cants vymg for eight openings, com~ared with only eighteen applicants in 1978. Bro. Ed Luther, rector of Morrissey, stated that all of the applicants are outstanding candidates and believes the increase in applica­tions is due to the quality of the Junior class. "It is not just a housing or lottery problem,'' he added. 
The increase in the applications 
Sr. Marietta Starrie, who must select five new resident assis­tants for Lyons Hall from 32 applicants, said, "We're going to have to modify our selection procedure--but I don't know how yet." Starrie, who attributes the doubling of applications in Lyons to a larger Junior class, stated that she and her RAs "may have to look more critically at the 
[continued on page 10] 
\ 


19 78 prices rise nine percent despite Proposition 13 slowdown 
WASHINGTON (AP)--Califor­nia's tax-cutting Proposition 13 helped slow inflation in Decem­ber, but consumer prices still rose 9 percent durin~ 1978, the second biggest leap m 30 years, the government reported yester­day. 
The Labor Department also reported that a typical American wage-earner fell behind in the race to keep up with inflation in 1978, as workers' real buying power declined 3.4 per~ent on the avera~e during the year. 
The tnflation rate for the year, fueled by sharp increases for percent. The year's biggest bargain was clothing, which rose only 3 percerlt. 

Excluding 1974, the last time consumer prices rose as much as 9 percent in a year was 1947. Pnces rose 6.8 percent in 1977, but wage earners increased their buying power in that year. 
The year-end consumefj price reP.ort affects the pay ofup to 2.6 mtllion workers, whose labor contracts provide for cost-of­living wage increases based on the December or fourth-quarter figures. 
The Labor Department said prices in December would have gone up 0.8 percent, closer to the average iriflation rate for the full year. 
Voters in California, the most populous state, triggered a na­tionwide tax revolt last June when they approved a referen­dum to slash property taxes by more than 60 percent. 
William Cox, deputy chief eco­nomist for the Commerce Depart­ment said the December figures were substantially influenced by Proposition 13. But he sajd the impact of the tax-cut on consu­mer prices would be limited to 
Snow, wind 
paralyze 


Midwest again 
(AP)--Wind-swept snows dealt another severe blow to crippled Chicago and paralyzed much of the Midwest yesterday while gale-force winds and tornadoes wrecked dozens of homes on Florida's Gulf Coast. 
In Nebraska, where cattle are dying of starvation, Gov. Char­les Thone signed an emergency proclamation dispatching Na­tional Guard helicopters and trucks to evacuate stranded farmers and open roads to get food to the stricken herds. 
Paul Saftie-, the mayor of Kenosha, WI, summed up the feelings of millions of storm­weary Midwesterners who a­woke to find a heavy blanket of snow on top of that left by a fierce blizzard a week and a half ago. 
"We had it just on the brink of being cleaned up, and now we have to start over,'' he said. "The men are tired, the ma­chinery is tired and I'm tired. I keep praying to St. Jude, the patron of hopeless cases, but he hasn't helped." 
A cold front pushing toward the Great Lakes region dumped 7 inches of new snow on Chicago, where 20 inches fell 11 days ago. Drifts formed by winds gusting to 40 miles an hour blocked roads and crippled o.Perations at O'Hare Interna­tional Airport, the nation's busiest. 
Many highways in Wisconsin and Illinms were impassable and many schools and factories were closed. 
"It's bad news," said John Burke, a spokesman for the Illinois Department of Trans­portation. ''Travel in the northern half of the state, for all practical purposes, is impos­sible and nearly impossible in the northern two-thirds.'' 
President Carter had de­
clared much of Illinois and parts of Wisconsin disaster area~ following the Jan. 13 blizzard, which left snow waist-deep in cities such as Milwaukee. But the deadline for federal aid for removing snow expired at mid­night as the new snow was falling. 
Wisconsin Gov. Lee Dreyfus on Tuesday had withdrawn National Guard men and eguip­ment that had been sent m to help open the roadways and tow away abandoned cars blocking the paths of snow plows. 
An all-time record high of 32 inches of snow was on the ground in Milwaukee, and Richard Cajeski, a supervisor with the Milwaukee Bureau of Sanitation, said it was the worst he has seen in 32 years with the city. 
"We're on a full-scale plow­
may affect the criterta used in judging prospective RAs. Fr. Conyers states that he and his present RAs will have to look closer at such qualities as in­volvement in past hall activities, leadership ability, ability to work as a team, and GPA. 

food, housing and medical care, was the highest since a 12.2 percent rise in 1974, when the economy was reactinfi to soaring prices for imported oil. 
Food prices were up 11.6 per­cent in 1978, housing costs 9.9 percent and medical care 8. 8 California's sharp property tax cut was a maJor in holding December's consumer price rise to 0.6 percent--equal to an annual inflation rate of nearly 7. 5 per­cent. Consumer prices rose 0. 5 percent in November. 

Had it not been for the tax cuts, 
the one month because the tax reduction for all of 1978 was figured into December's report. Labor Department economists said similar tax-cutting moves by other states would not have as great an impact on overall consu­
continued on 
ing operation right now,' Ca­j~ski said. "We have about 215 pieces of equipment on the road now. We're using our own manpower, plus men from other departments and emer­gency people hired to shovel snow.'' 



News in'brief 
Connally announces bid for GOP nomination in 1980 
WASHINGT<?N--With a platform emphasizing budget cutting, free enterpnse and a strong defense, John B. Connally yest~r~y entered the race for the 1980 Republican _presidential normnatton. The former Texas governor declared his candidacy in a speech at the National Press Club, and said he would enter every primary his campaign funds will permit. There will be about 35 presidential primaries next year. Saying he has "no apologies for having served in the Nixon administration ' ' Connally said he has faith the American people will accept the n~t g~lty yerdict in his Watergate-.rel~ted bribery trial. ''I have fatth 10 this country and I have fatth 10 the Americanleople '' Connally said when asked if he feared the charge woul damage him politically. 
Iranian military leaders close Tehran 's airport 
1EHRAN, Iran--Iranian military leaders moved troops and tanks into Tehran's airport yesterday in a war of nerves that at>peared as preventing the exiled Ayatullah Ruhollah Khometni, the shah's primary foe, from returning to Iran. Gen. Mehoi Rhimi, military governor of Tehran, ordered the airport closed, preventin~ an Iran Air Boeing 747 jumbo jet from leaving for Paris to ptck up the Moslem leader. Rhimi directed later in the day that the atrport be reopened. No plane appeared to have left, however, and there was no explanation for the reopening of the field. · 
Protesters attack Chinese liaison office in Washington 
WASI-llNGTON--Protesters hurled lead fishing sinkers through windows of the Chinese liaison office yesterday, dumped a mannequin at the entrance and spalshed the building with white paint. Four people were arrested, police said. No injuries were reported. Police at first said shots were fired through the windows, but later said they were unsure. However, officers 
1 said they found a weapon in a car that sped from the liaison office. The incident occurred just four days before the scheduled arrival of the Chinese Vice Premier Ten Hsiao-ping on a state visit to the United States. 
Legislature moves to crack down on drug dealers 
INDIANAPOUS--A bill to require most drug dealers to serve time behind bars survived a series of Senate amendments yesterday designed to allow judges to retain discretion on sentencing. Most of the amendments were offered by Sen. Patrick D. Carroll, D-Bloomington. One of Carroll's amend­ments, a move which would retain existing law which allows suspension of prison sentences for possessing, but not selling, a narcotic, was adopted by the Senate 24-20. 

Weather 
Occasional snow or snow flurries today after an overnight accumulation of four or more inches. Near blizzard conditions with blowing and drifting snow. High in the mid 20s. Clear and cold at night. Low near zero. Increasing cloudiness tomorrow. High near 20. Northwest winds of 10 to 20 miles per hour. 


CamR==u==s=~ 
3:30--MINI-COURSE, introductory jcl, 115 MATH BLDG. 
4 pm--' 'studies on electron spin lattice relaxation-times of transient free radicals--a progress report'', by prof. venkataraman, AT THE RAD. CONF. RM. 
4pm--MEETING senior placement at, CARROll HAll SMC 
4:30 pm--I.ECTURE, community a,nd natural support systems for the elderly, by dr. sheldon tobin, RM.117 HAGAR HAll 
6, 8:30 & 11 pm--Fll..M "autobiography of ms. jane pittman", ENGR. AUD. 
6, 8:30 & 11 pm--Fll..M "on the waterfront", WASHINGTON 
HAIL 

7:30 pm--I.ECTURE "the golden bowl: balzac, james, and the rhetoric of power'', by profs. sarah daugherty and james walton, UB. LOUNGE 
8 pm--I.ECTURE, ''formation of the lutheran book of worship'', by· dr. eugene brand, ARCI-ll1ECTURE AUD. . 
Thursday, January 25, 1979-page 2 
Senate panel investigates foster children in Jonesto-wn 
WASHINGTON (AP)--A con­~ressional panel opening hear­mgs on child abuse announced yesterday it is investigating whether as many as 150 foster care children were placed in the Peoples Temple before the mass murder-suicide last No­vember in G1,1yana. 
Sen. Alan Cranston, D-Calif., said that at his request the General Accounting Office is examining county foster care records in California and the list of the dead from Jonestown, the jungle commune founded by temple leader Jim Jones. 

''If names turn up on both lists," Cranston said, "it means the Rev. Jim Jones may have received hundreds of thou­sands of dollars in government child support and that some of those children died in the Jonestown tra~edy." 
Cranston satd one such death already has been verified. He did not identify the victim. 
Cranston, chairman of the Senate Human Resources sub­committee on child and human development, disclosed the in­

~The Observer_ 
Night Editors: ]ohn Cal­cutt, Debbie Dalirling Asst. Night Editor: Dave Brosh Copy Readers: Tim ]oyce, Kathy Connelly, ]obn Mc­Grath Layout Staff: Kathie Tighe Editorial Layout: Tom Beh­ney Features Layout: Cindy McKie/ Sports Layout: Ray 0 'Brien Typists: Lisa DzValerio, Tom Pipp, Beth Willard, Pete (Cerrone) McFadden Early Morning Typist: The Calico Cat ofWaring Day Editor: Maribeth Moran Ad Layout: Matt DeSalvo, Bob Rudy Photographer: Mark Ricca 
The Observer [USPS 598 920[ is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year [$10 per semester]lrom The Observer, P.O. box Ci, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
quiry by the GAO, the investi­gative arm of Congress, as the outset of his panel's hearings on child abuse in government­sponsored anci private institu­tiOns. 
Kenneth Wooden of Prince­ton, N.] . , an authority on juvenile delinquency, gave the subcommittee documents he said show that the Peoples Temple and some of its mem­bers operated foster care homes for chtldren in California. 
''The late Reverend Jones was receiving from the federal government and the state of California $13 7,000 annually for the operation of Happy Acres, an institution for 13 young retarded persons," Wooden said. 
Cranston said his subcommit­tee had found that the "appa­rent misuse'' of federal child support payments to the Peop­les Temple might obscure an even larger problem. 
''Some institutions for handi­capped, abandoned or delin­quent children are apparently providing abysmal living condi­tions for children in return for millions of dollars in federal support,'' he said. 
"We have heard reports ot children being strung up by the arms and legs in iron cages, held in solitary confinement in leg irons and handcuffs, tear­gassed and placed as punish­ment in dormitories with older inmates who sexually abuse them," Cranston said. 

Cranston and Sen. Birch Bayh, D-Ind., have introduced legislation that would authorize the attorney general to initiate or intervene in actions on behalf of certain institutionalized indi­viduals -including children ­whose constitutional rights may have been violated. 

~,...... .., ...,. owned by 
•"' ~~ '• ND& SMC
• grads
~ \ -~ 
~..... • ...,........,. Jorner of Eddv and South Ben!! 
Special prices for those showing ticket stubs alter ACC athletic events 


Want ta meet new peaple 
and have a lat af fun • 


RNTDSTRL 
First art;~anizatianal 
meetint;~ 7:DD Sunday. .January28 first flaar Lafartune 
executive sta f meets at &:3101 
. oble.~ 


OIDaJlS 
PIZZA ~OTHER GOOD THINGS 
CORNER OF GRAPE ROAD S ClEVELAND
·--·-·-·-·--·--·-----------...--------­
277-5300 EXPIRES 2/8/79
$LOO OFF ANY LARGE DEEP DISH SICILIAN PIZZA --·-·-·----------...____,________________________,_,____.. 
The Observer 


Security tightens car regulations 

by Tim Sweeney 

Students wishing to bring cars on campus th1s semester will find it more difficult be­cause of stricter regulations adopted rec~ntly by the Notre Dame secunty department. 
Joe Wall, director of Campus Security, said yesterday that the changes were initiated in order to preserve the pedestri­an atmosphere of the Notre Dame campus. Wall, a former chief of police in a Chicago suburb, admits that his biggest concern is to make it poss1ble for students and staff to walk safely on the campus both day and night. 
Wall insists that strict regula­tions are necessary in order to protect students and the staff from the higher probability of accidents caused by allowing cars on campus. Students will not be permitted to drive on campus to go to the Rock, swim at the lakes, cash checks at the administration building, work on a motor vehicle, or drop a date off at his/her dormit<?r>:. Students who request permis­sion from the guards to drive on campus for any one of these reasons will be asked to park in 
Law prof
•


to recetve fellowship 

Thomas L. Shaffer, professor 
and former dean of the Notre 
Dame Law School, has been 
selected to receive a Lilly 
Endowment Faculty Open Fel­
lowship for the 1979-80 aca­
demic year. He is the fifth 
Notre Dame teacher to receive 
the prestigious award since 
1975. 

Shaffer will spend his fellow­
ship year studying lawyers' 
morals and will try to identify 
the sources of codes of moral 
behavior among lawyers. The 
study is timely because former 
Attorney General Levi is work­
ing with a committee to review
the American Bar Association 
code while outside critics are 
suggesting J?Ublic regulation of 
the professiOn. Shaffer be-
Jieves his historical approach to 
theological and humanistic 
sources and antecedents may 
shed valuable light on these 
important issues. 

J
Shaffer, an authority on es­tate planning, has written sev­era! textbooks and articles on lawyer-client relationships. He received an undergraduate de­ree from the College of St. oseph, Albuquerque. He was raduated cum laude from the ~otre Dame Law School in 1961, and served as dean from 1971 to 1975. the students J.ot and walk. 
Students with acceptable rea­sons, as determined by the guard at the gate, must give their license to the guard and receive a fifteen minute pass to drive on campus. Students who do not return to the gate in fifteen minutes risk being fined. Several students who were issued passes to unload after Christmas break have yet to return to the gates to pick up their licenses. 
Wall has also taken steps to prevent vandalism in the park­mg lots. His department has hired twelve students to patrol in the lots. The students have been issued walkie talkies, and are expected to correspond with the guards and foot officers. This new program began Jan. 
15. 

On campus, a three-way stop sign wil be installed at the intersection of Lake and Saint Mary's roads. Wall hopes that this will make it safer for joggers and other pedestrians to cross the intersection, which is probably the busiest on campus. He expressed confi­dence that the students and staff who drive past the inter­section will heed the signs once they are put up. 
To go along with the traffic signs, Wall has increased the foot patrol on Saint Mary's Road. There will now be one or two more officers patrolling the 
road at night. This action came in light of the several incidents 
of assault which have occurred 
recently on the campus. Wall recommends that students, es­pecially females, not walk Saint Mary's Road alone during the late evenings and early mor­ning hours. For those students who must walk home alone at night, the security office pro­vides an escort service home. An escort can be obtained by calling ND security at 4444, or by asking the guards at the gates. 
} b
0 vacanC11 b d pl Jd
Oafj ace 


z·n LeMans 

A Job Vacancy Bulletin Board has been placed outside of ~e Career Development Center m LeMans Hall. Its purpose is to provide students with current mformation about job vacancies. Job opportunities are available~n Liberal Arts, Education, Science and various· other areas of em­
ployment.

The Board provides information 
· b alifi
about the em,P1oyer, JO qu 1­cations, apdchcations and dead­
'th

lines. Stu ents W1 any ques­tions should contact Dan Powell, Assistant Director of the CDC. 
The Philidor Tn'o entertained a Library Auditon'um crowd yesterday with several Baroque selections. [Photo by Mark Ricca] 


600 graduation tickets available ; lottery planned for distribution 
byJohn 0 'Donnell 

This year, graduating students have been issued a limited num­ber of tickets for the commence­ment ceremony to be held in May at the ACC. 
A lottery has been developed to 
allow for the distribution of any additional tickets. According to Richard Sullivan, Universiry reg­istrar there are presently 600 tickets to be distributed through the lottery. 
Each baccalaureate graduate has been issued five tickets while each post-graduate has been granted four tickets. Of the 2125 students who plan to graduate in May, over 1400 have entered the lottery. The winners of the lottery will be notified through the mail shortly since the draw­ing has already occurred. Each winner will receive one additional ticket. 
Sulll'van mentioned that the 
lottery consisted of a completelyrandom shuffling and selection process. Each student who expressed an interest was repre­sented by a numbered ticket. Sullivan pointed out that the lottery determined who will re­ceive an additional ticket; it does not indicate any specific seating location within the ACC. Seating arrangements will be determined at a later time. 
The figure of 600 additional 
tickets is likely to change. "As
h , , commencement apr.roac es,
Sullivan indicated, 'more facts 
become available as to who will graduate and who won't. The 

cccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccco 
th€ Bubby Rtch Banb In Conc€Rt monbay, ~es. 5 maRian h1qh School Spm 
1311 S. loGan ffilshawaka, lnb. 
~oR 1n~oRmat1on


t1ck€ts $5 abvance 
call 259-5257
$6 at bOOR 
aaacaacc~•••••=••••========================• 
Dean's office will certify the graduating list within a couple of weeks. 
' 'There are still many variables involved, one being that some students may fail to attain the minimum number of credit hours required. for graduation." Sulli­van explained, adding, "As addi­tional tickets become available, we will periodically notify addi­tional winners." 
Other items also complicate the issue. The registrar will not know who the guest speaker will be for the ceremony until mid­spring. This is important be­cause a national figure will require special accomodations. This was the case in 1977 when 
A funher complication is attri­buted to the seating of faculry members. There is currently a discussion about whether the faculry will sit on the main floor with the graduating students. The problem, according to Sulli­van, is that there is no way of knowing how manr. of the 700 faculry members will attend. 
Since graduatin~ ceremonies becan in the ACC m 1969, this is only the second year that atten­dance will require a ticket. Last year's ceremony, which packed m excess of 14,000 people into the 12,000 seat arena, helped to bring about this guest limitation. Sullivan feels that this year's system of reserved seating will 
President Carter addressed the result in "a more comfortable, graduates. calmer, and safer ceremony. "



, _______________, 
i BULLA SHED l 
I 5:15 mass and supper ~ I I this friday ~~~ 1 I and every friday-CC!II)J!US • 
\ m1n1a..ry
.._.______________,I 

The Observer Thursday, January 25, 1979 -page 4 

Monsanto to aid Engineering 
The College of Engineering received two grants recently from the Monsanto Company's Aid to Education program. 

The Department of Chemical Engineering, under the chair­manship of Dr. Julius T. Ban­chero, and the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical En­gineering, chaired by Dr. Albin 
A. Szewczyk, each received an unrestricted award of $2,000. 

The St. Louis coml?any each year awards aP.proxtmately a quarter of a mdlion dollars to about 100 different universities where it recruits graduatin~ students for professiOnal post­tions. Roughly 75 per cent of Monsanto's recruinng is for chemical and mechamcal engi­neers. 
Since 1967, Notre Dame also has received $100,000 from the Monsanto Fund, whose award recipients include private colle­ges and universities. 



Chilean, Argentine officials seek pope's aid 
VATICAN CI1Y (AP)-On the eve of a week-long papal trip to Latin America, the Vatican said yesterday Pope J. ohn Paul II will mediate a Chtlean-Argentine dispute that had raised fears of armed conflict. Vatican observ­ers agreed the role was a "gamble" for the new pope. 
The poE_e left today ai 8 a.m. (2 
a.m. ESI) for the Dominican Republic on his way to open the third Latin American Bishop's conference with a ceremony at the basilica of Our Lady of Guadelupe in Mexico City. It is his ftrst trip abroad as po£e. 
The 58-year-old pontiff will travel to Puebla de Los Angeles, 80 miles from Mexico City, on Sarurday for the conference. He will visit Oaxaca on Monday, Guadalajara on Tuesday and Wednesday and then will fly back to the Vancan Thursday after a brief stop in the Bahamas. 
The pope met Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko for the ftrst time yesterday for two hours--one of the longest encoun­ters between a pontiff and a statesman in many years. The Vatican declined to disclose details of the meeting, but Vatican sources said the pope and Gromyko reviewed issues concernins peace in the world and religiOus freedom in the Soviet Union. 
The Rev. Romeo Panciroli, chief Vatican spokesman, announced the pope accepted the two South American countries' request to help settle the dispute over territory at the southern tip of the continent. 
Panciroli did not say when the mediation effort would begin. Italian Cardinal Antonio Samore shuttled between Chile and Ar­gentina last month laying the groundwork for the effort. The 73-year-old cardinal has said representatives might come to Rome for furure talks. 
Samore has proposed a demili­tarized zone for the disputed area. Chile would keep three uninhabited islands granted by a British arbitration team in 1977 and Argentina would get en­claves on nearby islan<Is and Cape Horn. 



Editorials 
Thursday, January 25, 1979 -pa e 5 
P. 0. Box Q 
have been very difficult to replace him during the aca­Grateful tribute demic year. When I followed him as resident director in Innsbruck in the fall of 1976, I

to Father Broestl 
found everything well ordered and prepared for the transition

Dear Editor: 
as if nothing had happened. 

During the semester vacation He was that kind of man. on January 6, ·the Reverend Innsbruck was close to his Laurence G. Broestl, C.S.C., heart. He liked the peopledied of cancer. For those who there and they liked him. His were close to him, death did not many friends and acquain­not come unexpectedly, but we tances there shared our grief were shocked by the sudden­over his passing. So for all ness it had occurred. those who participated and 
Among the many accomplish­worked in the Innsbruck Pro­ments of Fr. Broestl and the gram, I would ike to say thank good things he had done as a you Fr. Laurence for what you priest and university teacher, have done for us. special mention should be made of his contribution to the Notre Professor Klaus Lanzinger Dame foreign study program in Innsbruck, Austria. He took charge of the Innsbruck Pro­
•gram in the summer of 1966 at a Reaction to time when it was going through its worst crisis. It is correct to say that Fr. Broestl saved the Sex and Equality Innsbruck Program in its initial pioneering phase. In the years Dear Editor: that followed, he contributed 
~ immeasurabl1 to its further I can't tell if Brian Hogan's progress and consolidation. article (Sex and Equality at ND: 
After his retirement in 1975, Virgin Territory) was serious or Fr. Hroestl once more assumed not. Assuming that it was the responsibilities of the resi­serious, I would like to com­dent dtrector in Innsbruck for ment. one year. He took good care of While there is some relation the 56 students in the Program, between repressive codes of the largest group that had sexual conduct and social ever been to Innsbruck. How­inequality of the sexes, this ever, during the winter of 1976, does NOT imply the sort of he was first s,rruck by the illness cause-and-effect relationship that finally claimed his life. In that Hogan asserts in his com­spite of his great physical ments on Victorian morality. discomfort, he held out on his His emphasis on increased post well knowing that without sexual activity as a road to the director, the Program could social liberation (" ... and the not function ancj that it would place to start is in the bedroom 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

"I LEFT SOMe MOOSe STFAKS IN 71-fE FRECZ&R. 
I'U seNIJ Ft:R HISTIJI=F 

where the most important male­been written with very little Editor's Note: female interactions take familiarity with or reflection on An unusually large number 
place") is grossly sexist, insult­the real tssues of the feminist of letters were received in mgly patronizing, and suspic­movement. If Hogan is really response to ''Sex and Equality: iously self-serving. concerned about women's lib­ND's Virgin TeTTitory". Due to 
Sexual freedom does NOT eration, I suggest that he space limitations, it is impos­equal increased sexual activity. devote a lot more time and sible to print all the letters Sexual freedom means freedom energy to exploring the issues, received. Letters which provide to choose, and a person may and to reflecting on his own a variet1 of arguments were 
choose chastity for very good biases. On the other hand, if he chosen jor publication. judge· 
reasons that have little to do just wants sex, let him say so. ment was also based on the with repressive codes of usual cn"teria oflength. conduct. 
This article appears to have Tim Tavis 
Sex and Equality at ND : Another viewpoint 
Upon readin~ the recent ObsenJer article by her male counterpart. This superiority may or Brian Hogan, ' Sex and Equality: Notre Dame's may not be true, but it affects someone to the point Virgin Territory'' , I experienced a feeling of of disturbing his relationships with the women, it is extreme disappointment over the views expressed, a purely personal problem, and it cannot be and some doubt over the complete journalistic considered as a factor in 'the problem' as a whole. integrity of the piece. I must take both objective Now comes the touchy part; sexuality. The and subjective exceptions with this article. majority of women (and males, for that matter) 
Yes, sex and equality are major problems at may or may not be virgins. That is nobody's Notre Dame. In more ways than one. To equate business. Mr. Hogan, you have your opinions on 'sexual liberation' with sexual equality, however, sex, and apparently unfortunately for you, Notre is twisted. There are several denotations and Dame women have theirs. In analyzing the connotations of sex. It is probably the touchiest Catholic church's stand on premarital sex, some word in the English language. This is very interesting points are made. Perhaps for some • apparent after reading the article and, although people, premarital sex is something they never this article has the appearance of being somewhat think about because "I've been brought up this tongue-in-cheek, I will take the statements made at way'' or it is easier to ignore. Many others have face value, and proceed from there. made a conscious decision about sex and cannot be 
In many countries, and in history in general, the included in this rash generalization. There are sexual and the social repressions of women have other intriguing points made, but throughout the both been present at the same time. Sexual entire piece, the most important idea of all is repression, however, has usually extended over the completely ignored. society as a whole. Islam, for example, does not Sex is fun. It is also part of the highest form of cond~ne promiscuity among males, an~ a_ cross.-­human communication and exchange that exists. exanunauon of the mores of most soc1et1es w1ll Whether or not sex "is meaningtul only in the show the same thing. The examples of Islamic and context of marriage" is a matter of opinion, but Victorian attitudes are basically true and legi­from the Christian point of view, it is. The timate, but the substantiation of those arguments guidelines are clearly there, and as Catholics, and have been overlooked. Granted, those repressions more importantly as Chtistians, we must follow were and are wrong, but we must look at the cause. them. We may not always live up to Jesus' ideals, 
Most religions, including the Judeo-Christian and but we must still strive for them. Notre Dame is a the Islamic viewpoints, are based on writings that Catholic and Christian university. What other contain some son of role of subservience to males possible standards can be expected? The ideals for females. These traditions were instituted many are not, as the article states, "the university's thousands of years a~o, and have carried over into attempts to keeP. intersexual relationships as the present time penoo. Centuries of tradition, be unnatural as poss1ble ... " They are guildelines in they right or wrong, are not going to be changed keeping intersexual relationships in perspective overnight. The biggest story of the past few with Catholic and Christian outlooks. The ideas on. months illustrates this, and ironically, it fits right dowry and Victorian attitudes are arguable. But into this issue. I am speaking oflran. The shah did the standards of Jesus are not. A person who away with all of the Islamic rules concerning wants a 'looser' sexual attitude in a school should female submission, and touched off the turmoil go to one that can provide it. Perhaps MIT would that has apparently cost him his crown. The same do. Recently two MIT coeds published a list of 35 is true in this country, although the turmoil is not males they had slept with and rated them on their quite as visible. Ail social advances take time, and 'performance'. Whether or not that is moral is female equality is no exception. personal opinion, but it is most definitely looser. 
Mr. Hogan states that the turning point for Fine, that s MIT. But this is Notre Dame, and female equality was the Kinsey Report jn the late' Notre Dame, with all its faults, stands for 1940s. Though this point may be arguable, there is something. A quick glance at the library will tell not real concrete evidence. Overlooked are two you what. other incidents that are much more pertinent and As I stated before, Mr. Hogan's article had an crucial to the issue. One is the 19th Amendment of appearance of being slightly tongue-in-cheek. It is the Constitution, Women's Suffrage, and the other also of somewhat arguable journalistic quality. is the 1962 treatise on women's liberation by Betty Free speech is a tenet upon which our entire press Friedan. These were the events that opened the media is built. But free speech also incurs door for female equality. The 19th Amendment journalistic responsibility on those who exercise it. made females full legal citizens, and Betty Friedan This article has offended a great number of people. was in the proverbial 'right place at the right time. ' That was to be expected. It did not, however, 
She sparked the women's liberation movement as substanstiate many of the offending statements. we know it today. That is poor journalism. The article spoke of 
Up to now, I have been concerned wth the basic sneaking susr;>lcions, and I have one myself. Was historical aspects of Mr. Hogan's story. I must this article prmted for the shock value it entailed? also, however, take drastic exception to the If so it is exploitation of the worst ~kind, and a generalizations and indictments of our 'system' disgrace to good journalism. May greater expressed in the article. . discretion be used in the future. 
On paper, and many times in practice, the Notre 
Anthony Walton 

Dame female student is academically sugerior to 
either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD 
reponed as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............. Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray 0 'Br."en &x Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chns Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb lAng henry Photo Editor .......... ,Doug Christian The ObsenJer is an independent newspa­lerrers are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor .... '... Rosemary Mills per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil ("AdJ.? Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Sa.mt Mary's EditoF . . . . . . FJ/en &ddJ Business Manager ........ john Tucler Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ &b Rlldy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. · News Editor ............. Mzl.e Lewis 

_T.he Observer_ of 
...) 

Features 
Thursday, January 25, 1979 -page 6 
Social Concerns Film Series 
The Grapes of Wrath: Chronicle of Despair 
•·And the Angel thrust in his sharpe sickle on the eanh, & cutte down the wines ofthe wineyards ofthe 
earth, and cast them into the great wine presse ofthe wrath ofGOd.'' -Revelation XIV.10 
The title of John Steinbeck's The The Grapes ofWrath echoes the imagery of the Biblical aP<>Caiypse. Like the "Battle Hymn ot the Republic," in which the vision of God's justice is suffused by the "glory" of Christ's transfiguring love and power--"As he died to make men holy, let us die to make men free" --Steinbeck's novel points to the final triumph of the forces of righteousness. 
The meaning of this • 'triumph'' seems ambiguous. The waste and emptiness of the "Dust Bowl" give way to the rotting fruit and disillusionment of California. The exploiters--the growers, bankers, and other vast capitalistic forces--con­tinue to oppress the journeying "okies" in the illusionary "promised land." Rather than allowing fruit to be picked, the _growers let it rot as children die of pellagra--a tragedy so ~reat that "weep­m~ cannot symbolize" tt. The torrential rams at the novel's end bring death and silent waiting. 
Nonetheless, Steinbeck persistently locates in the midst of the Okies' despair and suffering a sense of hope and promise. The new dispossessed and uprooted in America's ongoing pilgri­mage, like the tunle which recurringly symbolizes their tenacity as he crawls on, dragging din over life-giving seeds, his ''old humorous eyes looking ahead,'' will find an ultimate justice. Privile~ed bankers are not more real than ' the people,'' Steinbeck insists, and capitalis­tic power, great as it is, cannot withstand forever the rightful claims of the poor and common laborers. 
If a major pan of Steinbeck's vision has its origins in Marxist economics, its deeper roots remain Biblical and reli­gious. Man is an economic creature, but man is also a spiritual being, a soul, rather than an ~egate of glands, or a machine, or a ' consumer'' whose only function is to "maximize profits" and serve as fodder for gargantuan and faceless corporate structures. 
] im Casy, a former preacher, denies that God and]esus are indisrnsable to his vision: " 'Maybe,' figgered, 'maybe it's all men an' all women we love; maybe that's the Holy Sperit--the human sperit--the whole shebang. Maybe all men got one big soul ever'body's a part of.' Now I sat there thinkin' it, an' all ofa suddent--l knew it. 
I knew it so deep down that it was true, and I still know it.' '• His sentiment represents a kind of idealism which borders on the pantheistic. As with Casy's view that "sin" and "virtue" may not fmally be real or useful distinctions, the systematic and logical aspects of Casy' s conviction may be somewhat elusive--the forms of capi­talism, after all, seem evil through the novel just as the Okies are persistently heroic. But as a powerful and evocative vision of human solitarity and purpose, his perception defmes Steinbeck's OWI_l· The Grapes of Wrath points not to the victory of a vague abstraction called the ''proletariat,'' but to the perennial vtctory of the spirit and of actual individuals as they emerge from death and suffering. 

At the novel's end, Rose of Sharon, whose name is Biblical and, according to traditional exegesis, Christ-associated, suckles at her breast a starving and dying old man. Their mystical union becomes the consummation of Steinbeck's vision of suffering humanifY., perpetually redeemed in time but still seeking a fmal justice. Our own age, which presupposes irony in all things, would fmd the ending sentimental; others, who call the book "life-giving," seem closer to the truth. 
For Steinbeck, the presence of com­munal and transcendent love, even--or especially--in the face of hatred, social disintegration, and economic terror and oppression, is the most central fact of exJ.stence. In some fmal way, he s~gests, the grape ofwrath will come to frwtion in justice and mercy, and evil will be subsumed in a larger redemption. 
The shape of the promise has less to do with John L. Lewis or F.D.R. than with the incessant facts and long~ of our moral experience and imagmation. America is a nation rooted, as it were in dislocation and in pil~rimage: the frontier, Manifest Desttny, the search for the Kingdom of God in time and space. Exacdy forty years after its publication, Steinbeck's novel still at­tests to the tragedies, ambiguities, and glory which attend man's struggle to approximate on earth the necessary conditions of some form of absolute justice, whether such justice is construed as divinely revealed or as the apotheosis of man's moral imagination and vision. 
Thomas Werge 

Cool Hand Luke 
Lucas ] ackson, played by Paul Newman in the 1967 movte Cool Hand Luke, is a laconic, soft-spoken, wryly­grinning young man who is sentenced to a Southern chain-gang for defacing municipal property [shearing off the tops of parking meters while drunk). He quickly makes a name for himself among the prisoners by his mad escapades, which include the attempt to eat ftfty eggs in one hour and effecting of some daiing escapes. 
Father Hank Mascotte, a priest ex­perienced in dealing with prisoners and their problems, sees activities like Luke's as the efforts of prisoners to break the terrible, unrelenting routine which is endemic to prison life. This routine is one ofthe major ways in which the prisoners are gradually dehu­manized. 
Mascotte, the pastor of Saint Augustine's Church in South Bend, belongs to an Ex-offender Task Force in conjunction with the United Religious Community, a national and interde­nominational group. The task force works with prisoners at the Indiana State Prison of Michigan City, and sponsors a job development program for ex-offen­ders in order to help them fmd employment. Thou~h he has had no direct experience wtth situations like that of Road Prison 36 in Cool Hand Luke, 'Mascotte acknowledges many serious abuses in the modem prison. 
"Right now, it's about where the mental health system was, thirty or forty years ago-people who didn't fit into soc~~ty were yanked out of it and locked up, he says. 
He deplores the many ways in which prisoners are exploited by the system, mcluding everything from physical and psychological abuse by prison officials to the use of prisoners for <iru£ testing by pharmaceutical companies, for which the mstitutions, rather than the prisoners, receive compensation. 
However, Mascotte sees the real enemy of the prisoner not in the prison system, but in the uncaring and hostile attitude of the outside society. "Films like Cool Hand Luke are a romantic approach to the daily situation of the pnsoners," he says. "They have heroes like Luke to a certain extent, but they realize that acts of defiance and rebellion like his don't help to solve their problems. There are good and bad guards, good and bad prison administra­tors, but ultimately the society is to blame. People must become aware of the prison situation and act to change' 
Maureen 0 'Hn"en 


l 
I 


Reflections:The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pitttnan 
The inclusion of The Autobiography of Miss jane Pittman in the Social Con­cerns Film Series is especially appro­priate because it attempts to project the black experience in other than superfi­cial terms. This demercates the ftlm from others which have largely served to reinforce stereotypes, as in the case of the Blaxploitation ftlms. [Superfly, etc ... ) 
It is particularly noteworthy that both 
The Autobiography of Miss jane Pittman and Roots have attracted large audiences. This enthusiastic response differentiates these two ftlms from other progressive films examining the black experience. It is difficult to account for this phenomenon but it appears to be associated with the success of the writers,' producers, and directors at creating aesthetic distance [the psy­chological differentiation of a work of art from reality). This aesthetic distance results m part from the existence of a strong central character portrayed by a gifted artist, with which the audience can easily identify. Miss]ane Pittman, as portrayed by CicelyTyson,disp!ays an 
inordinate~ set of admirable human qualities such that her racial identity becomes a secondary consideration. A similar case can be made for the character, Kuma Kinte, in Roots. Unfortunately, a strong character of this type leads to the inadequate appre­ciation of the collective soctal context in which the human qualities manifest themselves. 
The success in ·creating-aesthetic distance also results from the nature of systematic degradation of Blacks which is chronicled. In the case of Roots, the system of slavery and debt peonage is depicted, while The Autobiography of Miss jane Pittman explores the era in which the "Separate But Equal" doc­trine was the law of the land. This historical focus, coupled with a hapJ?y ending where good triumphs over evil, allows the viewer to appreciate the brutality of the historical treatment of Blacks while not being forced to contem­plate the vestiges of the historicaf systems. 
In contrast, it was not possible for the viewers to achieve a comparable detach-v­ment while viewing the ftlm King; it is 

still difficult for most of us to achieve psychological distance from the turbu­lent events of the 1960s. As a result, there is a growing tendency to discount the continued hardship experienced by a disproportionate number of Blacks, other racial-cultural minorities, and women. There seems to be an emerging 
societal consensus that too much has 
been done already to right historical wrongs. The Social Concerns Film Series will have made a major contribu­tion to operationalizing the stated com­mitment of the University only if it is successful in creating an environment in which a renewed commitment to Social ] ustice can be nurtured. 
There are many themes in The Autobiography of Miss jane Pittman 
that are of contemporary relevance. Unfortunately, space limitations only permit me to mention one -the plight of Black females as it relates to the problems faced by black families. While viewing The Autobiography ofMiss jane Pittman may serve as a valuable introduction to the discussion of the problems facing black females, it may well overemphasize the importance of the Black matriarch. Additional initiatives beyond moviegoing will be required for an enlightened appreciation of the Black experience to emerge. In this vein, -it is hoped that the enthusiasm 
· and social awareness which the Third World Film Festival and the Social Awareness Film Series have ~enerated will be translated into (aY mcreased enrollments in courses which critically examine the issues which have been highlighted by the ftlm series and (b) an increased participation in e~erential learning e~eriences. There ts, how­ever, a contmuing need for faculty and administrators to develop other means of institutionalizin~ the burgeoning in­terest in social JUStice issues. It is only through the institutionalization of a concern for socialJ"ustice that students will be prepare to assume their responsibilities as we approach the 21st century. 
Dr. james B. Stewart 
Director Black Studies Program 


The Observer-Features Thursday, January 25, 1979-page 7 
~...But Dad, S ,

Gratuitious Violence 386 Is a Great Course ... ! UJear 
... 
An ancient family tradition decrees that every year, when the Yuletide season has come and gone, and Christmas bills take the place of Christmas cards in the daily mail, the heads of said family shall call for a gathering of the clan. After the father of the house gives the annual ''State of the Home" address, the meeting moves on to the real business of the day --that of the family zero-base budgeting sr.mposium. 
Each famtly member is called upon to list and defend various personal exP.enditures of the family funds. The grtlling that follows an individual presentation is ruthless; sibling rivalry reaches its fiercest heights when there is a possibility that funds previously alloted to skateboard lessons for Jane may be redirected towards Dick's one-edition-only beer can collection. As I went before the Board, I could sense, all too clearly, that the distin­guished members Had It In For Me. Things went smoothly e9ough until the bill for second semester came up for evaluation. 
"McBrien!" barked my father. (He tends to get a little formal during these sessions) "I have here a bill, young lady, for the amount of (peering over the top of his glasses) two thousand, five hundred, ei~hty-two dollars and seventeen cents. ' He glared round that circle of already hostile faces. "May I call it to the Board's attention that U. of State, which is among the top twenty educational institutions in the country, only charges one thou­sand, five hundred for tuition and housing combined. Moreover, U. of State is known throughout the world for the advances in medical scientific research carried out in its graduate schools and medical schools, and for its fine athletic tradition. "Go Blue!" He readjusted his glasses. 
''On-Campus housing is available to all students, although many opt to live in off-campus suburban apartments.'' He was, I well knew, coming in for the kill. 
"By contrast, Notre Dame, which admittedly also boasts a fine academic and athletic tradition, has inadequate on-campus housing, unspeakable off­campus housing, and a campus light­ing system that is woefully lacking---in view of all this, how do you, McBrien, justify this expenditure?'' 
I was really in a tough/lace now. Once before, I had save myself by whipping out a kazoo and playing the ''Alma Mater'', then making good my escape when the room was foggy with tears and nostalgia. Another time I had evaded the issue totally by jumping up and down shouting, "Golden Dome! Catholic Harvard! Fighting Irish! God, Country, and Notre Dame, not necessarily m that order!" 
But emotional rhetoric alone would do me no good now. The ruthless gleam in my younger sisters' eyes reflected their knowledge that seats for the Shaun Cassidy concert at Pontiac were $12.50 apiece. My very marrow chilled as I realized what I was up against. 
"In the first place," I began, "since the chairman is currently grossing three hundred and seventy-five a month from renting out my half of my old room to a family of six, with dos, I don't see how he has the gall to bnng up anything about housing." 
I was gropins for my next words, when suddenly mspiration hit. 
''And moreover, the housing situa­tion like all facets of life at Notre Da~e, is directed towards Building Character.'' 
"How's that?" my father suspi­ciously queried. "Don't think that I don't know about these things. They've got you kids stuffed in th~se halls six ways to Sunday, what wtth doubles becomins triples, study loun­ges being turned mto dorm rooms, and then, to top it all o_ff, two hundred juniors ~ettmg lottened off campus. I'm paymg to keep you in a friendly, secure hall environment, for Gods­sake, not a Cass Corridor housing project.'' 
"That's just where you're wrong, 
Dad,'' I was quick to reply. ''All these 
years, parents had the tdea that the 
on-campus housing system _was th~re 
to give students a creative soctal 
atmosphere, or somethin~ like tha_t. 
But see N.D.'s gotten thts reputation 
for shel;ering us kids from the outside 
world too much, so they've adopted a 



Senior Arts Festival 
(Participation in the Senior Arls Festival zs strictly limited to members of the senior class-Features Ed.] 
A series of fiction readings, art 
showings and events in music and dance 
have been schedules for the week of 
March 28 through April 4 to celebrate 
the Senior Arts Festival. Co-sponsored 
by the Cultural Arts Commission of the 
Student Union and the Senior Class, the 
week is envisioned as an opportunity for 
and a celebration of the artistic talent~ 
and efforts of the Senior Class. 
The events of the week were ori~inally and especially designed to provtde an audience for the non-professtonal artist, the senior who has, for four years, refined a talent without, perhaJ?S, pur­suing an art major. the commtttee is, therefore, extremely interested in con­tacting students who write, paint , take photographs, dance, write music, art or direct, in an effort to fully represent the artistic community within the Senior Class, 
The Senior Arts Festival Committee consists of just this kind of non-profes­sional. The drama committee hopes to give an opporturtity to seniors who ~ve never directed a play, or whose acttng has been confined to minor productions. The fiction and poetry committees hope to give an audience to writers of all sorts whose exposure in the uni-:e~ity student publications has been ltmlted. The opportunity for art shows among th(' "unseen" seniors is a further effort at the creation of an opportunity and an audience. 
Readings for the week have been scheduled for the Rare Book Room, the Library Lounge and the Art Gallery. 
Dramatic productions will take place in the Nazz and in Washington Hall. During the entire week, ISIS Gallery will house various art work by seniors, while the Nazz, in the everungs, will host musical performers. There are many opporturuties for further events, and for students and artists to take part in these scheduled events. 
The committees are interested 10 hearing from stud~nts with .an activi!)' which they would like to be 10cluded 10 the week's events. Seniors are asked to join the committees-the work shown during the week will be chosen from among submissions by the committees themselves-every member will have a voice in the schedule of readin~s and showings. Parts in the dramauc and musical productions will be open to all seniors: casting will take place in about a week. Interested writers, artists, and musicians are encouraged to contact Kathy Ryan, Festival Chairman or Jerry Perez, Cultural Arts Commissioner, at the Student Union, 6244. 
~------------~ 

The Features Editor Pontificates: II 
Rumor has it that a myriad of writing talents lie dormant under the guise of "business major." O.K. you marketing, accounting and finance freaks, if you want to evolve, metamorphize, or cos­mically penetrate new realms of l~ar~g experiences, ~e Features Edi!or ~s equipped to asstst your efforts. Events you've never written,or are woefully inept at grammar, there's hope. Call 3748, 7471 ask for the Shepherd of Schleps .. 

new philosophy. They're going to 
bring the outside world to us, now. 
It's called the Cold Cruel World Plan 
(CCWP). See, the University figures 
that overcrowding, besides gtving you 
a chance to meet more people, is a 
wave of the future, what with overpoJ?­
ulation and all. So overcrowding us ts 
really good preparation for later lif~, 
when we'll be bunched up together m 
apartment buildings.'' 

"That sounds plausible," admitted 
my mother. ''But what about the 
security situation? The lighting is 
really terrible all over that campus. 
And then all those girls who were 
assaulted!" (foo late, I remembered 
that Mom subscribes to the Observer.) 
"I don't want to have to worry about 
you getting attacked coming home 
from the library some dark night." 
''But Mom, that just ties in with what I said before. You don't want all those girls growing up not knowing that they're potential rape victims, do you? Of course not! The University knows that the crime rate is going up, and so they're preparin~ us for tt by exactly duplicating the lighting condi­tions of downtown Baltimore. They,'ve got to teach us to be careful, Mom·. I admit, it is a bit hard on the ones hwo fiet stuck being the example, but that's 
:c ,
ue. 

"That's another thing---I don't like their attitude towards women," said my Dad. "An administration that goes around making sweeping generaliza­tions about women alumni being less generous than men, especially when those women haven't been out of school long enough to start ~arning any real money, doesn't have a very positive'" attitude towards its female students. I don't care how male its tradition is, either. Harvard had a male tradition, Yale had a male tradition, every blasted school in . the country used to have a male tradition. That's no excuse." 
"Well gee, Dad, the administration doesn't really mean all that. They know that there's still a lot of people out there with negative attitudes towards women. As a matter of fact, a lot of them seem to be Notre Dame alums. But they figure that, if they pretend they're running a sexist 
Marcia McBrien 

institution, then all their female grad­
uates will be prepared to deal with 
sexist attitudes in the outside world." 
''But what about the off-campus lottery?'' interjected my mother. "I've seen that neighborhood, and I certainly don't want my daughter living in an area like that." 
''But Mom, people get evicted from their homes every day. It's a fact of life. I mean, suppose someday I'm living in the middle of where they're going to put a freeway, and they tell me that I ve got to move. Would you want me to go to pieces over some­thing like that, simply because I've never had the expenence before? Besides, everybody ought to experi­ence slum life sometime.'' 
"Now wait just a minute," my dad interrupted. "All of what you've been saying sounds very plausible, Mc­Brien, but what about the young man living off-cam~us \\-ho was shot just before exams? ' (My father, unfortun­ately, had also been reading the Observer.) "I suppose that's part of this master plan? How can the University, in conscience, place off­campus students in a situaucn where something like that is likely to hap­pen?" 
"Dad, things are rough all over. Remember all those terrorist incidents in Europe, when they bombed the Louvre and stuff like that? Lots of people have their own guns now just to break even, statistically speaking. The University knows what's waiting for us out there. In the world that's coming, we'll probably all of us catch our share of bullets. We have to learn how to survive, for crying out loud. If you don't believe me, just look at my schedule for next semester." 
"lntro to Hand Grenades" my mother read incredulously. "Garage Can Raiding 202. Gratuitous Violence 
386. That's what you're taking?" 
"It's just like I said, Mom. They've started to incorporate some of the class offerings into the CCWP. Did you see my Homemade Explosives lab? That's sur.posed to be a really fun course.'' 
'I don't know about all this" she said doubtfully. "Is that--everything you've been telling us--what we're really paying for?" 
I don't know, Mom. I sure hope not. 
Trevor Rabin, Baby's 



Album Review 
Steve Navarre , 

With Head First, The Babys make the most of what they have to offer. There is nothing new or imaginative in this album. The songs themselves echo hundreds of rock tunes written in the past five years. There are imitations of almost every rock group imaginable, including such notables as Led Zeppelin, Bad Company, the Eagles, Styx, Deep Purple. Indeed, the list goes on forever. . The_Ba~ys are not, bY, any stretc~ _of the tmag10auon, extraordinary mustctans. The rhythm team of Tony Brock on percussion and John Waite on bass lay down a steady and sturdy beat. Wally Stocker's guitar riffs are solid but basic. John Waite also handles the vocals and does an adequate job. 
The real artistry is performed by "the man behind the dials.'' Ron Nevison, the producer, does a very slick perfor­mance on this album and one cannot help but tap his foot to the quite ordinary music presented on this disc. The songs never drag or veer off course. The various musical components are pack­aged to present a clear, crisp sound that never wavers throughout the entire work. 
The Babys don't try to prove their musical prowess and deserve credit for their good judgment. Instead they present an lP of solid rock and rol!. Uninspired, maybe, but soli-:! rock , nonetheless. Besides, who satd rcod: 
bands had to be visionaries? 
Coming Soon Queen, Cat Stevens, UFO, Devo, Blues Brothers, Southside johnny 

-
The sad thing about Trevor Rabin's debut solo album is that it could have been a ~reat one. This is not to say that this isn t a ~ood album. Fans of such guitar-wielding rock and rollers as Jeff Beck, Robin Trower, and Ted Nugent will thoroughly enjoy this album. Nonetheless, it does have its downfalls. Many sonss contain slow-tempoed inter­ludes reminiscent of the Who but urtike the latter they don't work well here. Instead of providing a counterpoint to the thundering rhythm and screaming lead riffs, they merely tend to confuse the entire development of the son~. 
In "All I Want Is Your Love, ' for example, the tempo and energy of the song builds throughout the verses. Instead of exploding in a climax of shreaking Fenders, the song suddenly drops off to a chorus · of overdubbed voices meekly singing a repetitious and somewhat mundane refrain leaving the listener wondering what hapJ?Cned. 
Rabin ·handles all the mustcal chores excluding percussion, and he shows himself to be an extremely talented musician. His crisp guitar playing is quite similar to that of)eff Beck. Unlike Beck, however, Rabin s Telecaster does not dominate this album. Many other musical influences weave their way into this work producing a highly energetic if somewhat confusing IP. 
Trevor Rabin wrote and produced the entire album and a stronger effort on both ends to tighten up his music would have resulted in a better product. Nevertheless, this album is packed with good, hard, rock-and-roll. 


The Observer 
-

Carter's China-Taiw-an decision draws fire from ND professors 
Joe Slovinec return for reco~nition and break­the President consult the Senate Sta/!Reporter in~ the treaty. ' before attempting to abrogate the ' Because the Chinese were in a mutual defense treaty. Shaw flexible mood, we could have doubts the Supreme Court will 
President Carter's hist(>ric friendly relations without recog­take up the case of a lawsuit decision to establish diplomatic nition. It is ''hard to justify any proposed by Senator Barry relations between the United concessions on Taiwan," he Gol<lwater and other conser­States and the People's Republic added. vatives against Carter as they of China has been the subject of Both Moody and Shaw saw usually v1ew implementation of much controversy among schol­some advantages for the United foreign policy as a political issue. ars of history and international States in establishing diplomatic Shaw thinks that the ·u.s. relations. ' ·Two Notre. Dame relations with China. Sliaw said should try to make amends to professors, Yu-ming Shaw, a this will "strengthen our bar­Taiwan by maintaining an official native of mainland China from gaining posicion vis-a-vis ihe relationship with Taiwan by the History 1 Department and Soviet Uruon'' but it may backfire establishing a liaison office there Peter Moody of the Government by making the Soviets more similar to the U.S. liaison office Department, expressed similar aggressive in other parts of the in Peking prior to normalization. reactions to Carter's decision. world andmore reluctant to adopt Shaw also wants a joint Congres­
Both Shaw and Mood v believe the SALT accords. Shaw sional resolution which would that the United States could have believes diplomatic relations will guarantee that in case of armed received better guarantees for "improve contact, promote mvasion of Taiwan, the U.S. the security of Taiwan. Shaw mutual understanding, and help would take necessary measure to said, ''I can understand and cultural relations." insure the security ofTaiwan. He support the U.S. recogriition of ''China has everything to gain believes all U.S.-Taiwan relations the People's Republic of China. I and nothing to lose since China besides Eolitical ones should be disapprove of Carter's decision to needs the U.S. to help to dig out continuea. cancel diplomatic relations with oil, set up chemical plants, and to Both _professors are primarily Taiwan.'' grant them a most favored nation pessimistic about the effects of 
Shaw believes the U.S. should trading status. U.S. recosnition of China on the recognize both China and Taiwan Both Moody and Shaw saw U.S. posicion in the world. as they are both realities. Shaw legal difficulues with Carter's Moody thinks it is d~ing to said that the U.S. showed "total urulateral cancellation of the our credibility with our allies and acceptance of Communist treaty without consultation of Peking. Moody said this decision demands" and a "lack of regard Congress. has been made in the context of for the long-term security and ''No one knows if the President retreating U.S. power since the welfare of the people ofTaiwan." can abrogate a treaty without U.S. has been on the defensive 
Moody believes that the U.S. is action by Congress since the against the Soviet Union and its "recognizing Peking on Peking's President needed Senate consent Asian allies in recent years. terms." He noted that the to get the treaty,'' Moody com­China criticizes the U.S. for Chinese concessions were their mented. appeasing the Soviet Union," consent to the cancellation by Shaw said that Carter was not Moody said. ''Chinese might United States of the defense paying due respect to the think the U.S. may sell them out treaty with Taiwan and tacit authority of Congress in what for the sake of Moscow and that acceptance of the United States' Shaw termed a flagrant disregard may cause China to think about right to sell arms to Taiwan. of a resol~.;tion passed by the patching up relations with the 
Moody maintained ''the Senate by a vote of 94-0. Soviet Union unless the U.S. Chinese gave us nothing in The Senate had requested that stands up for its allies, " he added. 
Moody recognizes that a de facto alhance between the United States and China exists as demonstarted by the U.S. 
defense (in the United Nations) of a butcher regime in Cambodia. Shaw says the "China card is a 


'THE K'ING ~ I' 
Sunday and Monday January 28 G29 double-edged sword which could 
alienate the Russians" and in­duce them to make moves in

7& 9pm Carroll Hall -SMC Africa and refuse to make a SALT 
agreement. Shaw concluded that the "U.S. should always remind

sponsored by St~ Mary's herself she • is a symbol of 
freedom, democracy, and human 
social commission rights in her future foreign policy decisions. The U.S. should not repeat this example that makes

$1.00 admission ffilght and size determine what's right. Then the Third World can maintain its residual trust in the U.S." 


Summer Rome program to include architecture 
For over a decade the Depart­cities as Assisi and Florence. ment of Architecture has con­The study area will cover the ducted a highly successful resi­periods from Etruscan to Early dent program in Architecture in Renaissance. Part Two, June Rome. Based upon the comple­18-July 30, is a four week tion of the Rome Summer Pro­program combining An and gram in An, conducted in 1978, Architecture History. The study the Department of Architecture area will cover the periods from joins w1th the Department of An High Renaissance to late to announce a summer program Baroque. in Architecture and An for the 
Invitations to apply are ex­summer of 1979. 
tended to current students, pro­
This summer's program is fessionals, practicioners and focused on Rome, with a flve day friends of the university. Appli­field trip to Assisi, Florence and cants do nC?t necessarily need to the principal cities ofTuscany. A have a background in Italian. variety of educational exper­
All inquiries and requests for iences will be conducted through specmc information including a wide range of field excursions costs may be directed to: The and on site inspection studies, Notre Dame Rome Summer Pro­
using the City of Rome and its gram in Architecture and An,environs as a studio laboratory. 
1979; University of Notre Dame,The courses of study will include Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556; in Architecture and An History care of Robert L. Amico, AlA,offered on a variable credit basis Chairman and Professor, Depart­of not less than three nor more ment of Architecture, (219)than six credit hours. The 283-6137 or Joseph G. Rushton, courses are designed to be appro­Assistant Professor, Departmentpriate for university credit or of An, (219) 283-7452. 
continuing education. 
All interested parties should 
Part <;>ne of the program, June respond no later than April 1, 18-30, 1s a two week program 1979. Accommodations are which includes field trips to such limited. 
I I ,---------------~\
CLIP THIS COUPONU!! '-..
IRIVER CITY RECORDS I Thurow discusses economic 11 5outh Bend's Larges1 R eco~ d ~ " I theories on U.S. productivity 
1 by Don Schmid su.tpassing the United States by He stressed that both of theseI Tape Selection S I 1984. The U.S. reacted to this areas are traditionally known for Dr. Lester Thurow, one of Soviet push by implementing low output averages. America's. leading economists manpower programs aimed at The noted economist proposed 
I Concert Ticket Headquarters· I suggested in a lecture yesterday 
utilizing segments of the popula­one method of increasing rates of that the U.S. may have to look to tion that were not being employed, productivity. He stated that the new economic theories as a way such as blacks and ptople from extremely high turnover rate (3-4 of increasing productivity. Appalachia. percent each month) in American 
I .$1.00 OFF! ~ I 
Thurow, professor economics Although it became apparent mdustry decreases the efficiencyI , I and management at the in the 1960s that the Soviets of job training and teamwork.I COUPON I Massachusetts Institute of Tech­would not su.tpass the U.S. in the Thurow cited the Japanese policy 
nology, is touring the Midwest on growth ofproductivity, the end of of offering lifetime JObs as a way a lecture series concerned with the 60s brought new concern ofutilizing what he termed as the
I Any album or tape with this coupon. Limit 1. Now thruJan. 31. I Labor and industrial relations. "learning curve" advantage to
because of Japan's and West
I Not gOQd on cut-outs, imports or other sale items. 1 Yesterday's lecture, "The Impact increase productivity. 
Germany's rising rate of produc­of Labor Economics on Strategies tivity, according to Thurow. "IBM 1s famous for life-time

I ND/SmC checks accepted for up to 1 
for Raising the Rath of Growth The M.LT. professor went on employment and this is one of the1 JlO.OO over purchase amount I 1 Productivity '' held in the to explain that between 1970 and maJor reasons for its phenomenal 1 16,000 albums and tapes to choose from I Hayes-Heaiy Auditorium was 1977, the U.S. rate of produc­growth and success as a com­
sponsored by the department of tivity growth dropped from 3 .1 to pany,'' Thurow conjectured. 1 Peach crates available 1 Economics. 1.8 percent. Although numerous Throughout the lecture, 
Thurow opened the lecture by factors could have contributed to Thurow suggested that it might tracing the American concern this decline, Thurow ar~ed that be advantageous to make the
-
I River City Records I about decreasing rates of pro­the problem can be attnbuted to economy less flexible and theI 50970 u.s. 31 North, 3 miles north of Notre Dame I 
ductivity back to 1957 when the the addition of 6.9 million labor force less mobile in directOpen 10-10 7 days a week I SovietUnion launched a scientific • workers in that time period to the opposition to neo-classic econ­
277-4242\ and industrial program aimed at retail trade and seMce industry. omic theories. 
~---------------' 

The Observer 
Epileptic fights ruling for custody of children 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
'·'f!..!_IJ  X  X  X  
:'1nn  
X  X  
X  X  X  
Jan  29/JO  xxxxxx  
Mon/Tue•  

.1.1n lO,-;nl rd 
Jan ll 
~ 
F,..b 1 
;;;~r.. 
t"eb I 
(-~d 
hb 2 
~ 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X X 
X X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X  
I  X  
X  
X  
X  X  X  X  l  
X  X  
X  X  
X  X  
X  
'  
X  

X  X  HarriM Truat  •.mJ Savior Bank  
8 In Econ.  All BBA.  
X  X  ~-l'lllrt Cork fi ln Econ, Engl,  Hiat,  Psych, Mgt,  Hkt.  
X  Ell LillY 6o Co.  
BH  In ChE.  HE~E.  HE!O,  CE.  
•  X  X  X  Norden Sy11tcml -United Technologies BH in EE, MF., Camp Sc:i 1 Phyeica, Chem.  HBA with Fin  
or Mkt conrrntration.  
X  ~b-~Ul!L!!at tonal Bank  
MBA.  
X  Proctt•r o Gamble Co.,  Manu(acturf.ng Management 
8M-ii1.-ChE,  K£,  EE,  CE,  MEIO.  MBA with tech BS.  
X I Procter " Gamble Co.,  Product. Development and R&D  
BM  In ChE.  MBA with BS  in ChE  or Chem.  
I  
X  X  X  X  X I  Servl,:e Bureau Co.  

X  X  
X  
X  X  

B tn Econ, FJn, Mkt, Acct, Comp. Sci., MBA. 
Standard Oil Company (Indiana) 8 in Acc:t. 
Amoco Re.-earch Center 8MD ln ChE, PhD tn Chem (Analytical, OrM«~nle, Phydcal). 
A&Doco Oi 1 Co, BM in Chi!. 8 Ln ME, EE. 
Baltil'!lon Alrcoil Company, tnc. I In HE, M!IO. 
Eli Lillr and Co. MBA with Mkt or Fin concentration. \ C-E Lum111ua Company 8 In HE, ChiL 
Nalco Che•ical Co. B in ChE, CE, EE, ME, Chea, 
Standard 011 ComplnY (Indiana) I in Acct. 
UAROO i'"Trl""Acct, Hst. 
Anaconda Co. Wire and Cable Div. 
H. ·10 Lih.--Ar-ts nnJ Bus. Ad. B in HE, EE, ChE, >1£10. 

c:ntlo Wint"H 
Rln-L"ib.-Arts and Bus. Ad. MBA. 

ACTION/PEACE Cnncclled.  CORPS-VISTA  
BIJ RROUtiHH CORP. r~-- 
Chubb b. l-ion [n(', Bin all dil'lciplini!'S.  
C:allo Wlni!H Hirit:Tb"':-Artft  t1nd  RuH.  Ad.  MBA.  
!iANTIHi I Nr. H··cn·-t:(h·~-1\I"[R  and  Bus.  Ad.  ,  
<a::NERAL FOODS Pt in ChE, ME,  CORP, ME. tO.  
.JONES & LAUGHLIN STEEL B in EE, HE, Met, CE.  CORP.  
Hetropolitaf'\ Llfe [naurance 8 in all dlnlpllnea.  Co.  
lM-'~omeanv BM In MF., ChE,  EE.  
NORTHROP CORPORATION BM in AE, EE, ME, Het.  
WARNER & 8 in ~.  SWASEY EE.  CO  
Anht>mtt·r-Du•ch lnc. 8 in ME, EE, KEto.  
Leo Burnett U.S.A.. MBA-prefer Hkt background 8 in all dit~ciplinu.  or  concentration.  
~~!r:~~~s A~~;;Btin  concentration  for  Fin.~ncial  Analyst.  

MS in M£10, Camp Set or MBA for Management Systems Analyst. 
r.TF. SYI.VMIIA -EL!CTRONIC SYSTEMS GROUP nHn-ln EE. liM ln HE, HElO, Camp Sci. Hath, Physics. 
Harrill Trult and Savinsa B1nk B ln Econ. All BBA. 
Metropolitan Life ln1urance Co. MBA with Mk.t or Mgt concentration. 
HPk fuo"od.1tl!8, Inc, BHTn HE, MENO, ChE. 

~~u_n:1mi nw _If.!!&.!..!!! RH ln ME, MEIO, AE. 
Great Am~rican Ipsurance Co. BMD In Hath. 
BOISE (AP)--Lynnae Move says the courts are unfair in ruling she cannot raise her two young children because she is an epilep­tic. 
"My type of epilepsy is not violent, it would never cause harm to my children,'' the 24-year-old mother of 2-year-old Tanya and 4-month-old Bret said yesterday. "I don't thrash about. 
There 1s nothing really wrong with me." 
Mrs. Move's seizures of petit­mal epilepsy occur only at night, and only after emotional distress, says Dr. Michael O'Briend, a Boise neurologist. He testified that Mrs. Move's epilepsy would 
Inorgantc, 

Thursday, January 25, 1979 -page 9 
not prevent her from taking care of her chldren. 
But District Judge Gilbert Norris granted custody of Tanya and Bret to Terry Move, 37, whose job as a mapmaker with the U.S. Geologic Survy forces him to travel in seven Western states. 
Norris, in his decision, said Mrs. Move could not act decisive­ly for at least 10 minutes after seizure. He said she also apparently lacked energy "to properly look after said children'' 
SMC sentor placement meeting set 
by PJ/en Buddy Saint Mary's Editor 
The Counseling and Career Development Center of Saint Mary's is sponsoring a Senior Placement Meeting today, 4 p.m. in Carroll auditonum in Made­leva Hall. The purpose of the meeting is to acquaint seniors with the process of formulating and maintaining a credentials file to be kept in the CDC office, according to Betsy Twitchell, CDC Director. 
Once the flle is established, it is a permanent ftle of the student's life experience and can be con­veniently forwarded to employers and schools upon request. The ftle contains a resume, recom­mendations and possibly a per­sonal statement. 
Twitchell said other aids of the CDC would also be discussed at the meeting. They include career counseling, notification of job vacancies and on-campus inter­views. Registration packets and Career Manuals will be available at the meeting. 
Students who are unable to attend are encouraged to call or stop by the CDC office in LeMans Hall. 

for a day after a seizure. 
Mrs. Move said the seizures, which last from 30 to 60 seconds, prevented her from being able to 
talk for  a  half hour afterwards  
and  gave  her  migraine  head­ 
aches.  

Mrs. ' Move's mother, Dee Cady, said the seizures began when Mrs. Move was 15. From that time until she was married at 20, Mrs. Move had experienced only two or three seizures, her mother said. 
The Idaho Supreme Court has suspended Noms' ruling while it reviews the case. Mrs. Move said the high court likely will take 10 months or more to decide. She has custody of the children while the case isjending. 
She file last October for a divorce from Move, who, she contended, used to grab her by the neck and throw her down on 
~-------------------------~ 
I ~r{ I
! ~u\1"€ "i. ~ottr{ 1I~br{r{~tt \\~~~ ! Thurs. Feb. 22 
SUN, JAN 28 6:00pm 
LAFORTUNE LOBBY Limit 10 tickets per person price $8.00 S 7.00 Tickets go on sale. Monday Jan 29 9:00am at 
Student Union Box Office 
Also available at ACC Gate 10 
---------~~Q~i&~---------1 
their bed as she rose from a seizure, contrary to O'Brien's orders not to touch her. 
"It seems our marriage was setting them (the seizures) off," she said. "I was very emotional and couldn't do anything about what was happening. With Terry holding me down they were getting worse. ' ' 
O'Brien testified that since leaving her husband last October Mrs. Move had not had a seizure. 
The divorce is not final pending a property settlement. Meanwhile, she receives welfare assistance amountihg to $323 a month. 
Mrs.Movesaid Norris' custody decisions earlier this month is unfair. 
' 'All of a sudden to have a judge say, I can't have my kids, I couldn't understand why," she said. 

It will say that you're a qualified engineer, and that you're on your way to a success· ful engineering career. Except for one thing. An opportunity to prove yourself! And that's where Sargent & Lundy comes in. 
We're a foremost engineering consulting firm, serving the electrical power industry since 1891. And we've grown to become one of the largest companies of our kind, more than SEXTUPLING in staff in just .14 years. Every year we are adding engineers to our select professional staff. 
We offer a unique atmosphere ...of and by Engineers. Our partners •• all Engineers. As tor job stability, our contract commitments guarantee you'll be challenged for years to come. 
Centrally located in Chicago's famous Loop, you'll have easy access to the lakefront, cultural and entertainment centers and dynamic Michigan Avenue. And because we're so sure you'll love Chicago, we'll pay for relocation expenses. Let's discuss your future, our company and how we can unite the two. 
Meet our Employment Representative on campus on Friday, February 9,1979 
(312) 269-2000 
SARGENT & LUNDY ENGINEERS 55 E: Monroe St./ Chicago, Illinois 60603 
An AffirmatiiH! Action Employer 
SARGENT ~LUNDY 

____:_--~­
The Observer  Thursday, January 25, 1979 -page 10  
ND grad appointed [continued from  page 1]  which has  made  its  campaign  • • • Consutner prices from an 11.4 percent annual rate Food prices jumped 0.8 percent  
mer prices unleto council very populous,  ss the states were like New York.  against ipriority f nflation thor 1979.  e top domestic  ·during the second quarter of 1978 in December after rising only 0.3 to a 7.9 percent rate during the percent in November. The Labor  
The appointment ofRobert P. "A tax cut in MQuinn, a general partner in the be felt nationabanking firm of Salomon Bro­mist said. thers, New York, to the Advi­Nine percent isory Council of the College of derably higherArts and Letters at Notre Dame percent rate forhas been announced by Fr. by the Caner Theodore M. Hesburgh, uni­versity president. Qmnn is a 1958 Notre Dame graduate. The University's advisory •councils consist of 30 to 40 business and professional lead­ers who meet annually with [continuedfrom  aryland wouldn't lly," one econo­nflation is consi­than the 6.1 ecast a year ago · administration, • • RA positions page 1]  The athis weewould braised from mate maGovernhean in showed tunusual  dministration k that ine 7.4 percent, a 6.5 de only lament ecthe latest hat inflatinumber  flatist fall. onofigures, which on of  predicted on in 1979 a figure percent esti­mists took had slowed applicants  final three months. Department said December's rise Cox cautioned that the favorable was due mainly to sharp in­trend did not "indicate we're out creases in meat, milk, and other of the woods," but he said it dairy products. should help President Carter win Real spendable earnings­suppon for his "anti-inflation ef­money that can be spent on fon, which includes voluntary consumer purchases after deduc­wage-price guidelines. tin.g taxes and accounting for According to the government's inflation--declined 0.1 percent in latest repon, the Consumer Price December, the government said. Index ended the year at 202.9, The 3.4 percent decline for the meaning that a group of products full year was the steepest drop costing $100 in the base year of since 1974. Real spendable 1967 cost $202.90 in December. earnings rose 3. 5 percent in 1977.  
deans and other academic ad­written materia l in the applica­ this year --some ha lls  didn't even  
ministrators to discuss the de­tions."  have eno ugh cand idat es," Green  
velopment of Notre Dame's Fr. Greg Gree n, as:5istant vice­ said. Gr een, who  hea ds the RA  December awards 
colleges, as well as the Law president of  Student Affairs,  screening  process,  t hinks that  
School, library and art muse­views the overa ll situation differ­ there sh ould have been  an in­ 
um. ently, however,  "There isn't an  crease this  year  owing  to the  

Federal sutnmer jobinternships offered 
The Placement Bureau has announced two new federal summer job internships: 1) Graduate students completing one year in public adm1nistra­tion or J?Ublic policy for a summer tnternship with the Office of Personnel Manage­ment. 2) Entering senior year students with environmental studies back~round for a sum­mer internsh1p with the Agency for International Development. 
Top quality candidate-s with good academ1c average, leader­ship ability and extra-curricular acttvities are urged to apply. Deadline for both internships in March 9. 
For applications and further information come to the Place­ment Bureau, Rm. 213, Admin­istration Building. 

DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
Fox's 
JEWELERS 
SINCE.1917 


Town & Country and Concord Mall, 10-9 Blackmond's. dailv, 9:30-5 Special 15% Discount On Merchandise To Notre Dame & Saint Mar 's Students. 
Follow Notre Dame basketball throughout the season in the ([hiral\O ([ribune 
Fot dotm delivety call 8648 -Rich Flaherty 
student may apply. Green also attributes the increases in speci­fic dormitories to their large ] unior class population, and noted that the quantity of appli­cations ' 'will always vary from hall to hall and year to year. " 
Molarity 



A 6'5"-2SS?OUND INFULL 
removal of the restriction regard­ing the number of halls to which a 

total $289,540 
regions occurrin~ near the lead­ing edge of a1rfoils by Dr. Thqmas ] . Mueller, professor of 1:1erospace and mechanical engmeermg. 
Notre Dame also received $16,000 from the Committee on Institutional Cooperation plus Midwestern Program on Minor­ity Education for an educational program introducing minority students to the concept of a technical career, directed by Drs. Anhur ] . Quigley and David L. ·Cohn, associate pro­fessors of electrical engineer­mg. 
Three service programs of the Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry received awards totaling $47,816, including $43,464 to the Center for Hu­man Development directed by Fr. Vincent Dwyer, $2,483 to the Center for Pastoral Liturgy directed by Fr. John Gallen, and $1,869 to the Institute for Clergy Education directed by 
. Fr. Robert S. Pelton. 

The University has accepted $289,540 in awards for the month of December to support individual faculty research pro­jects as well. an innovative educational and service pro­grams, according to Dr. Robert 
E. Gordon, vice president for advanced studies. Awards for research totaled 
$22 5,724 and included: --$170,843 from the National Institutes of Health for studies of treehole mosquitoes by Dr. George B. Craig, ] r., Clark Professor of Biology and direc­tor of the Vector B1ology Labor­atory. 
--$29,881 from the National Science Foundation for analysis of the behavior of reinforced concrete beam-column connec­tions by Dr. Donald F. Mein­heit, assistant professor of civil engineering: 
--$25,000 trom the National Aeronautics and Space Admini­stration for a study of flow 
21. 
Insipid 

22. 
Yawned 


c 
24. Discruntled person 
R 
25. 
Cartons 

26. 
Shining 

27. 
Letter recp­


0
s
taele 
28. -Antony 
s
30. Trails 
32. Malicious 
w 
33. 
Doctor'• con· cern 

34. 
Open to view 


0 
R
35. Relaxes 
37. Girl's naune 
D 
40. Prickly pod 42. -carte: 2 
s 
wda. 
GEAR I THAT YOU COULD OVER­

28. Tot
POWER AN ENAAGED 

29. Once 111ore 
30. 
Peel 

31. 
Skidded 

32. 
Liked: 2 wda. 


36. 
Moray 

37. 
Door-faatener 


38. Actreu Ar­
: den · 39. Day of rest 
41. Roof..... 
43. Ridinc honea 
U. Watchful 
46. Roentp~>o­&'l'am:2wds. 
46. Pubpme 
Yesterday's Answers 



ACIOSI 
1. Snapshot 
6. Lively danceo 
10. 
Caeaar or Brutus 

11. 
Choose 


13. 
Bun&'lin&' 

14. 
Liatenilll' in,­


tently: 2 wda. Ul. Fadrink 
17. Havill&' un­
even terra in 1!;. iAckin&' ex­
perien~e 
20. Burl""''ue 
22. 
Aetor Autry 

23. 
Football team 

24. 
Gravy 


2&. Univenity aurroundilllfll 
DOWN 

1. 
Typocraphy 

2. 
Eateem 3. Greek "0" 


4. Faucet 
li. In retreat: 3wds. 
6. 
Tout spread 

7. 
Poorly 

8. 
Mild exple­tive 

9. 
Amaaowith oome ditllcul­ty: 2 wds. 


11. 
Briny 

12. 
Dreamlike atate 


16. Saccharine 
18. Doctrine• 

-~­
..........-~­
The Observer -Sports · 
Flowers leads the way 
Irish handle Fordhrun,_85-53 
by Gregory Solman happening in the stands. nent: at center, Laimbeer, was 
Assistant Sports Editor "I really didn't like the way the hustling his way toward nine 
student body got on an opposing early points in the first eight 

By the end of the Irish 85-53 player again tonight (Dud minutes of the game, givin~ the 
shearing of the Rams last night at Tongal)," he grimaced after he Irish an early, never relinqwshed 
the ACC, Fordham Head Coach had taken off his white cashmere 15-4 lead. Laimbeer scored the 
Tom Penders was convinced. coat and retreated to the tense opening bucket from the right 
"They (the Irish) are as close to press room, "I would rather they stde of the lane with an assist 
being a dynasty as any team that use their energies in a positive from Rich Branning. Laimbeer 
there is,' he remarked after the fashion for our team. On behalf hit on a sort jumper a minute 
game. "Notre Dame definitely of the student body, I just want to later, and completed the three 
deserves the number-one ran­apologize to Fordham.'' {>Oint play. Then, Laimbeer 
king. They are a totally sound, As the game progressed, Ton~al finished a three-on-one fast break 
fundamental team. They have no became the dommant opposmg to continue the flurry. 
apparent weaknesses.'' personality for Fordham, rather The long night continued for Notre Dame Coach Digger surprisingly, considering T.K. beleaguered T.K. Tripucka, who Phelps was not convinced--but Tripucka, Kelly's brother, played showed defense lapses, even what bothered him more than most of the game. His first name after Laimbeer fouled out. Enter, what transpired from time to time (pronounced "Dude") had Irish Bruce Flowers--later to be named on the court, was what was fans chanting whenever he the game1s Most Valuable Pla­
touched the ball. However, yer. 
according to Penders, the fans "We needed to be able to work 
weren't the main concern for the the ball inside as we did near the

... Colleges 
Sudanese import who followed end of the game," remarked Penders from Columbia to Ford­Flowers, who started the second

[continued from page 12] 
ham a year ago. half for the first time this year,first. This is exemplified by two "Did you see Laimbeer's and scored 18 last night, "Wepieces of legislation we shall arms?" he reportedly marveled needed to loosen up that zone, bysponsor at this week's conven­returning to the bench for an getting the ball inside, even if ittion. The first calls for higher early time out. was just to touch the ball andadmission standards for student­''That should give him some work it back out. And it worked. 

athletes in Division I-A. The incentive to get mto the weight We had a sluggish first half, butsecond calls for repeal of legisla­room," laughed Penders. "Ton­everything finally fell into thetion passed a year ago that gal is still learning the game. He groove.''
permits the ''red-shirting'' of had played ball in Sudan while he The hot shooting of Fordhamfreshmen. 
was there, but their level of guard Tom Kavanaugh, who had

While the reor~anization de­
basketball is comparable to our fourteen points on the evening,bate: will contmue at the level of table tennis when put T.K. Tripucka and Dud Tongal,N.C.A.A. convention, it will be against the Chinese." who each had ten, kept Fordham overshadowed in importance by Meanwhile, the sterling play of within theoretical striking dis­the specter of pendmg H.E.W. 

Notre Dame's two biggest men, tance throughout the game. 

regualtions concerning Tide IX. 
Bill Laimbeer (eleven points in A late second half spurt led byMuch of our attention will have to the first half, before fouling out Orlando Woolridge's sevenbe given to this issue, which has early in the second) and Bruce points and Flowers' sixteen putthe potential of being the most Flowers gave an otherwise non­the game out ofreach. There was serious threat in intercollegiate descript game flashes of bril­nothing left but for Phelps tofootball in its history. Compared liance. subdely signal Bill Hanzlik to foul to this problem, N.C.A.A. re­While most spectators were so that he could insert theorganization pales into insignifi­busy checking out T .K. (billed as remainingjlayers. Kevin Haw­cance. 

"the other") Tripucka, his oppo-kins cashe in for a bucket and it was all over. 


''Digger reallr orchestrates these fans beautifully,'' Penders chuckled after the game. "If I did any of that in front of our fans they'd throw tomatoes at me. I get booed at my own cafeteria.'' 
Some vital stats going into last nights game: Orlando Woolridge was second in the nation in field goal percentage (62-91, .681), behind Iona' s JeffRuland (. 698). Last night, "the tree" was four for eight. 
The Irish are also first in the nation in scoring margin, avera­ging 22.5 per game margin. Second is Syracuse, at 18.1. Last night, the margin was 32. 
Woolridge and Jackson rate the honors as the hottest Irish play­ers currently. Woolridge is .800 from the field (24 of 30) over the last threeJ.ames. Jackson is not far behin , firing at a .738 clip (31 of 42) in his last four games. 
NOTRE DAME 85, FORDHAM 53 
Fordham [53]-Holloway 1 1-2 3, Trlpucka 4 2-3 10, Kavanaugh 7 0-Q 14, Foust 4 Q-1 8, White 06-6 6, Calhoun 00-2 o, Dowell oo-o 0, Tongal 3 4-5 18, Murphy 0 o-o 0, Lombard 0 o-o 0, Ryan oo-o o, Walsh 1 0-0 2. 
Notre Dame [85]-Woolrldge 4 4-8 12, Trlpucka 43-4 11, Lalmbeer 43-4 11, Hanzlik 2 o-o 4, Branning 6 1-3 13, Wilcox 3 o-o 6, Flowers 74-418, Mltchell1 0-1 2, Jackson 3 o-1 6, Hawkins 1o-o 2, Healy oo-o o, Kelly 0 
o-o 0. 


oves those who lo ~~ the Adonis ·Lost Wallet In Blo Bldg. Keep money but Looking for an opportunl~ to earn I need the rest. Phone 7912 ..extra money while learning sa es skills? John E. Peak has been pinned 
.. -·-· .-. --.. 
DISING OPPORTUNITY 
·~ 

,~ 
' 
Thursday January 25, 1979 -page 12
SJ2orts 
CFA to the rescue 
Colleges battle budgets 

lation at the N.C.A.A. convention 

Editor's note: The following 
that, while it will delete the Ivy

article appeared in the New York 
League amendment concerning

Times january 7, 1979. As well 
12 sports, will also provide a wide 

as being the execut£ve vice­
door for entrance into Division

preStdent at Notre Dame, the 
I-A .for those institutions who

Rev. Edmund P. ] oyce is also the 
genuinely wish to have major

chaiT"1llan ofthe Faculty Board in 
programs. I believe the C.F.A.

Control of Athletics, director of 
will assist in the development of

the College Football Association, 
major programs, rather than

and the recipient of the 1977 
hinder them. 

Dist£nguisheJ American Award 
The C.F.A. was formed two

from the National Football Foun­
years ago by some 60 institu­

dation and Hall ofFame. 
tions, all of whom have major programs and are concerned about protecting the vitality and

by Rev. EdmundJoyce C. S.C. 
integrity of the sport. Some 
enues that are critical to their 
persons try to see m this devel­

These are trying days for endeavor. 
opment a veiled threat against

college administrators struggling At the 1978 convention, after 
the N.C.A.A. Nothing is further 

with the problem of ~financing prolonged debate and parliamen­
from the truth. The C.F.A.

comprehensive athletic pro­tary maneuvering, Division I was 
intends to operate under the 

grams. Costs have been esca­divided into Division 1-A and 
N.C.A.A. umbrella. If and when 

lating more rapidly than rev­Division 1-AA. Only schools that a logical of
division football­

enues; Title IX requrres far more met certain criteria (e.g., size of 
playing schools takes place

expenditures for women than had stadium, average attendance, 
within the N.C.A.A., the C.F.A.

been customary in the past; stren~ of schedule) would be in 
will probably dissolve. For the

formerly revenue-·producing Division I-AA. At the last 
time being, however, it simply

football programs are feeling the minute, however, the so-called 
provides a structured forum. It

pinch of professional competi­Ivy League amendment was in­
has been especially helpful to

tion. All of this is happening at a troduced and passed by the 
bring the coaches into the di­

time when general university narrow margin of 73 votes to 70. 
alogue. Too often they have been 

financing is precarious. It is little This amendment exempted a told what to do.
wonder that frustrations are school from all of the criteria as 
As a member of the board of

vented, ofttimes emotionally, at long as it fielded a football and 
directors of the C.F.A., I have


the National Collegiate Athletic basketball team an9 sponsored 
been edified by the level of all of

Association conventions in Jan­10 other varsity sports. Such a 
our discussions. We are deter­

uary each year. school then had the option of 
mined that the academic welfare Bruce Flowers has played spectacularly coming off the bench to
One of the volatile issues in placing itself in either Division 
of the student-athlete comes lead t~e Insh to their number 1 ranking. [Photo by Doug
recent years concerns N.C.A.A. I-A or I-AA. When all of the 
[continued on page 11] Chnshan.] ­
reorganization. Its continued options were exercised in March effectiveness is related to an 1978 only three institutions from 
ability toad just to changing times Division I placed themselves in and circumstances. It has done I-AA, thus leaving 141 insititu­this reasonably well. For quite a tions in I~ A and not modifying the 
Irish find their budding flower
while it operated with two divi­original prrh,lem. Division I-A sions for :--urposes of champion­was replete with the same applesships: a College Division and a and oranges (disparate schools) At the end of the 1977-78 basketball season, Uruversity Division. as was the original Division I. comparing Bruce Flowers' statistics to those ofhis 
In the early 1970's, it was felt It is easy to understand the frrst two seasons at Notre Dame was a lot like Craigadvisable to have three legisla­reasons why the so-called major listening to a stock market report. tive and competitive divisions. It teams are unhappy about the Scoring average, down four and one-half...field had become clear to all that no present situation and desire f;Oal percentage, off one hundred points ... rebound­Chval 
a 

single set of rules was adequate mg average dropped two and three-quarters. 
l~i~lative division of their own. 

for schools whose athletic philo­(lhls does not afford them, In a word, Flowers' season was a disappoint­''Mter the first day, I went home and told my kinds
nor 

sophies and programs, particu­do they desire, complete auton­ment. But he came back this fall, bubbling with kids that I was working with Bruce Flowers, and larly in the volatile sports of omy. Any legislation can be enthusiasm and assuring everyone that this year they dido' t believe me,'' remembers Granett. ''So football and basketball, were so overruled by a two-thirds vote on would be different. I told Bruce the next day, and he said 'Well, I'll diverse. I am told that many the N.C.A.A. membership.) Quite frankly, I was a bit skeptical. I don't know have to meenhem.' " members of the Classification Such a grouping would give if it's because I was born that way, or ifl've seen lf·Granett was impressed by Flower's attitude, Committee felt that there should schools with similar programs the too many Hollywood Hendersons come down the then Flowers felt no differently toward the be four competitive football divi­opportunity to engage in effective line, but I'm an avowed cynic. foreman. "Everybody in the shop kind of looked sions. However, only three debate and develop responsible But midway through the schedules, I'm just up to Frank, and asked him for advice," says divisions were established in legislation for themselves. about convinced. Flowers' figures to date are Flowers. ''He was very easy to talk to--he was kind 1973, on the theory that it was It is impossible to have a almost too good. He's done more than make me of like a father figure.' ' better to move in stages rather meaningful discussion on im­change my mind. Now I'm trying to figure out how GraRett tried to impress upon Flowers all that he than taking a quantum leap. portant issues affecting football he's doing it--mirrors, hypnosis, miracles drugs? had going for him. ''] ust being at Notre Dame is 
Football has always been at the under the present N.C.A.A. for­Notre Dame's 6-9 senior center is shooting .714 fantastic," points out Granett. "Add Bruce's heart of the reorganization de­mat. Everythin~ bogs down in a from the field and .886 at the charity stripe. In just athletic ability, and you can see that he's got a lot bate. It has remained so as plethora of legislation and par­a tad over 20 minutes a game, he leads the game in to fall back on. Kids don't realize how important pressure has built for four liamentary trivia. Another bene­rebounding average ( 4. 7) and is scoring close to 11 an education is. I just tried to make Bruce realize football-playing divisions. Al­fit many of us would like to see points per game. And ne says it's all due to a new all that he has ~oing for him, and that he should try though schools in Division I and from such a forum would be the attitude he picked up while working in a factory to live up to his potential.'' Division II have been fairly attention the schools could give this summer. So far this season, Flowers has certainly lived up comfonablt-with their classifica­to the rule-breaking and abuses. Ordinarily, I'd find that a little hard to stomach, to his potential--and then some. The native of tion, ther has been increasing I find it not so easy to but with the kind of season Bruce Flowers is Huntington Woods, Michigan is most pleased by tension between t:he 144 schools comprehend the unwillingness of having, when he talks, people listen. his free throw shooting improvement. in Division I. It is an apples and institutions that do not sponsor "Last summer I went home and worked in a "Thats a good example of how I'm able to oranges problem. Divtsion I in major football programs to be in factory," says Flowers. "It was a ten hour day, concentrate on what I'm dong," says Flowers. reality has a two-tier membership any grouping except Division 1-A. and I had to start at five in the morning. It was," "That's all free throw shooting is--concentration. 
about 80 schools that are I have listened to their argu­admits Flowers, "the first time I'd ever had a You just have to block out the crowd and involved in big-time football and ments, which seem to me to be really tough job." everything else. I've never shot free throws this another 60 or so with less The first day Flowers re.Ported for work at well before--even I can't believe it."
based more on emotion than on ambitious programs, whether by logic. Some fall under the Warren Chevrolet, he was mtroduced Frank . Flowers'. newly-found. attitude has also helped
to choice or by circumstance. category of scare tactics when Granett, a 35-year old foreman in the plant. him deal wtth the _potenttally traumatic experience Examples would be Michigan they imply, incorrectly, that re­Granett, who is married and has four children, has of losing the startmg position that he had held for 
State and Furman, Texas and worked at Warren Chevrolet since he was 19 years three years.
organization is an attempt by the Columbia. major schools to throw off all old. ''At the beginning of the year, I thought about it The possibility of these two restraints, to control television or Flowers and Granett hit it off immediately, and a lot, but tf1en I realized that I was playing just as 
groups living in harmony with to block other schools from it wasn't too long before Flowers wondered aloud much as if I were starti~g. There's so~ething common legislation has been improving their programs. · how anybody could keep his sanity on the job for an about Starttng:-everybody likes to hear therr name further strained by the financial The complaint about thwarted entire summer, let alone 19 years. announced,but once I got over the ego trip, it 
crunch. This has resulted in a mobility touches a sensitive "So Frank told me about what they call the hasn't bothered me." · power stru~gle of sons whereby 'Chevy Motto' --if there's nothing you can do about Nobody is more aware of how well Flowers has
nerve. There may be a few the lower-ner schools have either schools in the lower tier such as something, don't worry about it. And that really adjusted to the situation than Irish coach Digger
advanced "Robin Hood" (share­San Jose State, that genuinely made a lot of sense to me. Last year my problems Phelps, who uses Flowers as an example for his the-wealth) proposals or have want to upgrade their programs. were mainly mental,' but talking with Frank you~ge~ players: "B~ce Flowers is a greatlobbied for economies that the They should not be blocked from straightened me out." msptranon to this team, ' lauds Phelps. "He's 
upper-tier schools fear would doing so. With this in mind, Granett, who along with his wife, was Flowers' done everything we've asked of him." reduce the quality of their pro­members of the College Football guest at Saturday's South Carolina game, saw in As for myself, I'm a believer. But I'm still grams and endanger the rev-Association are introducing legis-Flowers a sincere, down-to-earth young man. keeping my eyes open for mirrors. 








