Modern Day Profits-page 7
'
' ' 

VOL. XIII, NO. 110. an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 11JESDAY, APRIL 3, 1979 
Van Wolvlear 
•

announces sectton party guidelines 
hy John McGrath Senior StaffReporter 
In an interview yesterday, Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vice-president for Student Affairs, denied that the University has banned section parties on campus. "There's no change as to whether parties are allowed--it's only a change in where they are to be held,'' he satd. 
Van Wolvlear was referring to a recent movement sponsored by some rectors and hall governments towards the elimination of section parties in favor of the use of haJJ party rooms. 
"We figure it (the use of party rooms) promotes more of a party situation," Van Wolvlear said. "In a party room, you're not jammed in like sardines, and we don't have to worry about kids not from our school roaming around and stealing things like at a section party." 
Van Wolvlear outlined six "parameters" drawn up by a committee of dorm head staff at a meeting Feb. 28, that serve as guidelines which individual hall staff and governments may wish to follow or elaborate on. They are: 
• Parties should be held between the hours of 7 
p.m. and 2 a.m. 
• 
The party must be contained within the appointed room. 

• 
Attendence at the party is by invitation only 

• 
There should be no charge of admission at eh door or in the room. 

• 
There should be no advance advertising for parties. 

• 
A certain percentage of the cost must be spent on food. 


[continued on page 3) 

Hydrogen bubble decreases 
/ 
. . . 

Nuclear reactor's S'ltuat'lon 'Improves 
HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) ­Engineers achieved a "dramat­ic decrease" yesterday in a gas bubble that has held a strangle­hold on efforts to cool down the disabled Three Mile Island nuclear reactor. 
Plant and federal officials said the hydrogen bubble had shrunk to a much safer size and the reactor's temperature had dror.ped significantly. 
• I am certain it is cause for optimism," said Harold Den­ton, Nuclear Regulatory Com­mission operations chief. He said the bubble was showin~ "a dramatic decrease in size.' 
• • I didn't expect such a rapid change," Denton said of the bubole. "I think it is safer than Sunday." 
Local civil defense officials, hopeful that the changes meant that the five-day crisis here had passed, nevertheless main­tained efforts to prepare for a precautionary evacuation of 25,000 residents still within a five-mile radius of the plant. 
Denton and BoHmer both stressed that there was no hurry in attempting to bring the r,lant to a cold shutdown 
'We're waiting to see how stable the systems are," Vol­lmer said. 
Denton also said radiation 

Isis Gallery hosts Senior Arts Festival 
by Mark E. Rust News Editor 
Sculptor Tom Dits finds ) udaism "a beautiful thing." His expression of that --a set of glassy textured, Hebrew inscribed Sabbath dishes -­along with expressions of other "beautiful thtngs" caught the. eye of over 100 visitors at yesterday's Isis Gallery opening of three-dimensional art. 
The exhibit --an array of clay, wood, metal and fiber sculpturt' --highlighted the sixth day of Senior Arts Festival activities. The festival con­tinues today with a repeat of the Isis showing, poetry and prose readings, and music and plays presented in the Nazz. 
Dits, a senior art major from South Bend, explained the pro­cess he used in creating his clay pieces. A clay slab, shaped on the wheel and fired twice, resulted in the Sabbath pieces, but the mort: important aspect of the the process, according to 
[continued on page 8] 
levels of 30,000 roentgens an "Decontamination and the hour, far above human toler­ability to cope with the amount ance levels, had been measured of radioactive fission products in the reactor building. that are in the containment is 
Vollmer said this was the . goin~. to be a lo~g-term prob­maximum radiation measured lem, Denton satd. in the building, but that levels He added that an instrument elsewhere, although lower, on an inactive water circulation were still too high to aJlow system in the building had people to enter the building and do any useful work. [continued on page 4] 

·House bill 
saves u.s. from default 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House yesterday passed legis­lation to raise the federal debt limit, averting the prospect that the federal government would be unable to pay its bills or honor its checks after tonight. 
The House approvt'd a 

·Senate measure by a 209-165 vote and sent it to President Carter for his signature. FinaJ approval came after the cham­ber voted 216-160 to beat bal:k a Refublican attempt to tie the bil to a measure calling for a balanced budget. 
In a letter to House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill earlier in the day, Treasury Secretary W. Michael Blumenthal warned that unless the debt-limit bill ''is passed by the House and signed into law by the president today, the United States of America could default to­night.'' 
Default, the Treasury secre­tary said, would mean: 
• 
Approximately $8 billion of Social Security wire transfers and checks, already mailed, will not be honored.'' 

• 
Some $3.3 billion in Trea­surY. bilts maturing Tuesday "wlll not be paid when due." 

• 
Other checks presented for payment starting Tuesday ''will not be paid." These, he said, 



include civil  service  and  rail­ 
road  retirement  benefits  and  
veteran's benefits.  

Treasury Department sources, who asked not to be identified, said BlumenthaJ or­dered last Thursday that aJl federal income tax refund checks be held up pending the outcome of the House vote. The Internal Revenue Service was unable to say how many refunds would be affected. 
O'Neill told reporters that "it's a real serious crisis. Lord only knows what would hap­
(continued 011 page 8) 

'Feminist Humor' 

Kaufman opens Women 's Week 
by Margie Brassil Assistant St. Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's Women's Opportunity Week began with presentations yesterday by Gloria Kaufman, a professor from ~SB on ''The An of Feminist Humor'' and by Margo Hoff, a resident artist at St. Mary's, on the topic of "woman as Visual Artists.", 
Kaufman spoke in Stapleton Lounge to a group of about 40 students and faculty. Her talk concentrated on several examples of feminist humor. 

•'Although the title of the talk might suggest it (feminist humor) as easily describable with a particular style, there are actually as many styles as there are writers and there is a vast amount of material on the subject," Kaufman observed. 
She noted that the function of feminine humor is to exrose truths, as is the purpose of humor in genera . It is not unique in revealing the truth but it goes beyond general humor and removes conventional social taboos. "Taboos inhibit the truth and if we can't taJk about it then we can't joke about it," Kaufman quipped. 

The main social taboo that women humorists have written about deals with reproduction and womb envy. Womb envy has been so taboo that few know it exists. MaJe scholars have be~n embarrassed by data on the subject, yet the evidence goes back to very ancient times. 
To prove that womb envy exists, Kaufman gave the example of a play by Euripides in which the main character, Hypolotis, a woman-hater and a man envious of woman's P.Ower to give birth, says to Zeus: "Oh Zeus if you wish to propogate the race of men this shouldn't have been brought about by woman's means." 
Aristotle in an effort to rectify the ''error'' pointed out by Hypolotis, originated the idea of the homogulus infant. He outlined this concept by explaining that the male sperm supply was thought to supply the totaJ form of the infant, leaving women to be viewed only as incubators. Until the 19th century, this concept was taught 
!continued on page 4] 

---, 
----­

\ -­
• 





NewS in brief 
Rhodesia calls up reserves in· preparation for elections 
SAUSBURY, Rhodesia (AP)--Rhodesia's army, gearing up to combat suerrilla threats to sabotage elections this month for this nauon's ftrst black-majority government, has begun calling up reservists up to the age of 60, the military command said. The black nationalist guerrillas have vowed to sabotage the elections in Rhodesia, claiming that black politicians seeking office are "stooges" who will let Rhodesia's white minority pull the strings and continue 90 years of white domination. Citing security, the government has kept the ex:tct date of the universal sufferage elections a secret. An announcement is expected on Friday. Sources say the vote is expected to begin April 17 and end April 20. 
Begin receives low-key welcome from Egyptians 
CAIRO, Egypt (AP)--Israeli Prime Minister Menachem 
·Begin arrived to a low-key welcome in Cairo yesterday as Arab foes of his peace treaty with President Anwar Sadat began punishing Egypt. The Egyptian government greeted the ftrst Israeli prime minister to vtsit their capital with strict protocol and little warmth. Vice President Hosny Mubarak headed the welcoming_ party and Sadat stayed horne because Begin is not a chief of state. 
Khomeini claimsacceptance of Islamic Republic 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP)--Ayatollah Ruhollah Khorneini claimed unanimous approval in the two-day referendum on his plan to make Iran an Islamic republic, but his revolutionary regime admitted one ethnic minority was still ftghting in the northeast and trouble was brewing with another in the south. The referendum amounted to a vote of confidence in the leadership of the 78-year-old Shiite Moslem patriarch who engineered the revolt that drove Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi from Iran in February. The government radio­television service said preliminary results showed 18 million of the estimated 18.7 million ehgible voters endorsed the Islamic republic. But despite Khomeini's landslide at the polls, the revolution he heads still faces serious challenges from ethnic minorities who make up about a third of Iran's 36 million people. · 

Weather 
Partly cloudy and continued cold through tomorrow. Highs today in the mid 40s. Lows tonight in the low 30s. Highs tomorrow near 50. 
1 pro--PRESENTATION, "fragmentation," with penny jameson, deanna sokolowski, & carol ann carter, spon. by women's opportunity week, STAPLETON LOUNGE 
1 
2:45 pro--SEMINAR, international careers, spon. by aiesec, 122 HAYES-HEALY 
3 prn-4:30 pro--PRESENTATION, "women in ancient art," with michele fricke, spon. · by women's opp. week, STAPLETON LOUNGE 
3 pro--SENIOR ARTS FESTIVAL, readings in poetry & prose, UBRARY LOUNGE 
6:30 pro--MEETING, alpha phi omega; ZAHM BASEMENT 
7 pro--MEETING, philadelphia, LEWIS REC ROOM 
7 pro--FORUM, "the influence of religion on the work-a-day world in latin america, the u.s. and bangladesh: a comparison of political economies," with profs. jameson, thorp & yoder, HOWARD HALL 
7 pro--PRESENTATION, seminar on abortion, nd-smc right-to-life, PLANNER PIT 
7:30 pm--DISCUSSION, thr~e mile island nuclear accident, with prof. john w. Iucey, spon. by asrne, 303 ENG. BLDG. 
8 pm--LECTURE, antonia brico, spon. by women's opp. . week, CARROLL HALL 
8 pro--SENIOR ARTS FESTIVAL, three plays from the wakefteld cycle, THE NAZZ 
10 pro--MEETING, knights of columbus, K OF C HALL 
10 pro--SENIOR ARTS FESTIVAL, music by steve rogers, tim·keogh, sue goergen, & bruce mccaffrey, THE NAZZ 


Tuesday, April 3, 1979 -page 2 

Anti-nuclear groups stage demonstrations abroad 
(AP) -Anti-nuclear groups staged demonstrations yester­day in Japan and West Ger­many while a Soviet commenta­tor said the U.S. nuclear acci­dent that prompted the protests was a consequence of American capitalistic ''energy monopo­lies" hunting for proftts at all costs. 
In the southern West German 
state of Baden-Wuerttemberg, 
officials disclosed they have 
issued special iodine pills to 
people living within a mile and 
a half of nuclear plants. 
State Interior Minister Gun­
tram Palm said the pills would 
reduce the amount of radio­
active iodine ingested in the 
crucial minutes between a pos­
sible accident and an evacua­
tion order. 
Opponents of nuclear power 
held peaceful demonstrations in 
Hamburg, West Germany, and 
Ikata and Shaga,]apan. 
The governments of Japan, 
France, the Netherlands and 
West Germany sent observers 
to the troubled Three Mile 
Island plant in Pennsylvania 

ND chapter of FCA sponsors special events 
Two special events are being 
sponsored by the Notre Dame 
Chapter of the Fellowship of 
Chnstian Athletes (FCA). The 
ftrst, a film titled "Sports 
Odyssey,'' is scheduled for 
tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Room 
222 of Hayes-Healy Center. 
Featured in the ftlrn are 

hang-gliding, surftng and other . 
sports calling for unique and 
less tradittonal athletic 
abilities. 
A meeting featuring "Lefty" 
Smith, Irish varsity hockey 
coach, has been scheduled for 
Monday, April9. The time and 
place of this session will be 
announced in a future edition of 
the Observer and will also be 
posted on campus bulletin 
boards. 


t!:;,~b~~,~~~-::-
Brosh Asst. Night Editor: Mary Pat Ellis Copy Editor: john McGrath, Sherry Mummert Editorial Layout: Tina Terlaak 
Features Layout: Chns 
Stewart Sports Layout: john Smith Typists: Mardi Nevin, Tom Pzpp, Pete McFadden, Rosie Early Morning Typist: Katie Day Editor: john Ferroli Ad Layout: Barb Prall, Dave Wood Photographer: Ron Szot 
The Observer !USPS 598 920] is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year [$10 per semester] from The Observer. P.O. box 
, Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame. In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
despite their insistence similar incidents could not occur at their facilities. 

However, a leading member of the ruling Social Democratic Party of West Germany said t~e country must re-evaluate its plans for nuclear power expaa­sion and suspend work on a new plant similar to the U.S. facility. 
] apan ordered an immediate inspection of its nuclear facili­ties, and Japan and West Ger­many scheduled emergency meetings to consider nuclear safety. 
In Russia, nearly a third of the 15-Minute evening program "Today in the World" was devoted to a detailed account of the mishap, including ftlm foot­age of the Three Mile Island nuclear power plant and an evacuation center for area resi­dents. 

Commentator Anatoly Ov­syannikov said "the accident at the atomic power station in Pennsylvania had evoked pro­found concern and continues to alarm the American public: 
"Special indignation has been evoked by the fact that the energy monopolies, in chasing after proftts, are not taking proper measures ensuring the safety of the functioning of nuclear power stations." 
Earlier yesterday, the Com­munist Party newspaper Pravda carried on its front page a report on a Leningrad atomic plant which it praised as safe: 
The Soviet Union reportedly has had three major nuclear accidents, one of which killed several hundred persons when buried atomic wastes exJ;>loded in the Ural mountains m the late 1950s. The Soviet govern­ment has never acknowledged the accidents, which were re­ported by defectors and the 
U.S. Central Intelligence Agency. 
In Japan, second only to the United States in the use of nuclear power, several hundred persons demonstrated yester­day for a suspension of opera­tions at nuclear facilities. Thf demonstrators said radiation leaks at the U.S. facility show nuclear power is dangerous. 
About 500 residents of the southwestern Japanese town of Ikata, who live near a nuclear plant undergoing tests after a cooling water leakage was re­ported last October, demanded government protection from any potential radiation. 
.. 
I 

APPLY NOW 
EDirORIAL POSITIONS. ate now 
open on The 1980 Dome yeatbook. 
No Expetience Necessoty. Candidates especially needed fot Business managet and Seniots Editot call 7524 or 3136 before April 5 


The Observer Tuesday, April 3, 1979 -page13 
Attacks 
•

conttnue on American 
Embassy 

in Lebanon 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -Two rocket-propelled grenades hit the U.S. Embassy yesterday but officials said no one was hurt and damage was minor. The attack carne amid increas­ing Arab hostility to the United States for its role in arranging the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty. 
U.S. Ambassador John Gun­ther Dean was reported to be having lunch elsewhere at the time of the attack, which oc­curred at 2:45p.m. His office is located on the same side but above the office hit. 
In 1976 the American ambas­sador to Lebanon, Francis Melloy, was assassinated in Beirut's leftist quarter in an unsolved murder. 
Eyewitnesses said two young unidentified men fired the sre­nades yesterday from high m a building 150 yards from the embassy that overlooks the Mediterranean coast in West Beirut. The men escaped in a small car, the witnesses said. 
Palestinian leaders have threatened to attack ' 'American interests" in the Middle East because of the key U.S. role in bringing about an Egyptian-Is­raeli peace treaty. 
But none of the Palestinian factions based here claimed responsibility for the assault, and sources inside the move­ment dismissed the incident as unworthy, both in scope and purpose. 
The rocket-propelled gre-

In accident 

~I>studentsufferstlljury 

by Tom Hay driving south from Lafayette to Bloommgton with his girl-Notre Dame senior Louie friend. The driver of the other Knoble remains hospitalized in car, an elderly man, apparently Bloomington, Indiana following neglected to stop at a red light a rwo-car collision on Sunday, at an intersection, striking the Mar. 18. According to his Knoble vehicle on the dnver's mother, Knoble suffered a side at approximately 35 to 40 severe skull fracture when the m.p.h. According to Mrs. car he was driving, a Toyota Knoble, "the front of the sedan, was struck broadside by Cadillac went through the car 
Knoble is expected to remain in the hospital for up to three more weeks, and it is not known when he may return to school. "We'll have to wait and see," said Mrs. Knoble. "It's just a matter of time." 
Anyone wishig tQ contact Louie may drop him a line at: Bloomingron Hospital, 605 West Second Street, Blooming­nades a common weapon_in the, militia arsenals of Lebanon~ exploded outside a ftrst-floor window and penetrated an em­pty office on the fifth floor .at th~ front of the eight-story byjlding. .--"We were very fortunate no one was in the room at the time," an embassy security officer told reporters. 

It has been learned from reliable Lebanese sources that the government here won an agreement last week from Pal­estinians and leftist Lebanese groups to refrain from attacking U.S. citizens or --·property in Beirut because of the already fragile security situation. 
Vasser Arafat, leader of the Palestine Liberation Or~aniza­tion, vowed last week to 'finish off'' American interests in the / region, and Sunday his political adviser predicted ''days of fire' -.. and bnmstone." Longtime observers ofthe guerrilla move­ment tend to downplay these ~hreats as primarily rhetoric for mternal consumptton. 
However, even if a guerrilla 
[continued on page 4] 

a Cadillac near Martinsville, door. It was really a mess." _..:t::on=:l::N=4=7::4::0::1::.====== 
Indiana, which is 18 miles Knoble's girlfriend, the other outside Bloomington. passenger in his car, suffered 
Knoble underwent Sl.Jrgery only mmor bruises. on the night of the accident to The accident has had an relieve pressue on his brain, effect on Knoble's speech and and remained in a coma for motor functions, but no per­nearly a week. No further manent damage is anticipated. complications have arisen, and Friends who visited him over doctors expect him to make a the past weekend reported that complete recovery with no long· he was alert, and able to get up term disabilities. Mrs. Knoble and wlak around. His mother said "he's getting better every· said that he "has made an day." extraordinary recovery so far" 
The accident occurred in considering the nature and early afternoon as Knoble was extent of his head injury. 
su tO sell 
•


regtsters 
Student Union will be selling 1978-1979 Freshman Registers for $1 starting today. The registers may be purchased at the ticket office, on the second floor of LaFortune, from noon until 4 p.m. as long as supply continues. 
, , , Section parties 

[continued from page I] 
Van Wolvlear stressed that these guidelines are not binding in every hall. 
''The big problem is .that this is not an across the board thing.:· Van Wolvlear said. "There are twenty-two dtfferent rectors; some approve, some are unc"rtain, and-some never have allowed section parties to begin with." 
Van Wolvlear listed four major reasons behind the decision to "push" the party room c.oncept. He emphasized that a party room offers a more "controlled" atmosphere than do section parties. He also observed that party rooms usually result in better planning of activities, as well as the fact that in such ,rooms, food and non-alcoholic beverages are abailable whereas they would usually not be at section parti~s. 
Reaction to the unqfficial guidelines dtffers across campus, depending on the pres~nt policies of each rector as well as some physical limitations encountered in some dormitory structures. 
Fr. Thomas Tallarida, rector of Zahm Hall explained that his dorm has been operating a party room similar to those now advocated by the University since 1976. 
ARmANDO'S 
"We will not be hurt by the new guidelines because the students have gotten used to the party room, and we have found that it is a better way to have parties and alleviate some of the excessive drinkin~ that goes on in some of the individual rooms, ' Tallarida observed. 
He admitted, however, that some halls, whicl1 do not have sufficient social s_pace, or which have become accustomed to sectton parties, may have difficulty adjusting to the new suggestions. 
"It's (the shift to the use of party rooms) ~oing to cause some problems," Tallarida said. 
'I could see some halls where the students are used to section parties having some trouble adjusting, but in the long run, I think it's better for the students and the hall staff.'' 
Sorin Hall is an example of a dorm that does not have the available space for a party room on the same scale as some other dorms on campus. Bob Senese, vice-president of the hall, concedes that Sorin might have some problems con forming to the new guidelines. 
"Under the party rules, we don't have the area," Senese said. "We're supposed to have one of the turret rooms next year, but that's just heresay.'' 
Senese agreed that the use of aJ.arty room for activities is a good idea, but adde , "Sorin's not set up for that kind of system.'' 

BARBER & HAIR 

Mud Volleyball Registration,

STYLE SHOP 


WHY· MIKE NOBLE BECAME AN 
R.G.D. & CO. ACCOUNT EXECUTIVE 
After graduating from The University of Notre Dame, Mike Noble began to search for a business career that would place no limits on his income or advancement.. An A. G. Dickinson & Co. advertisement like this one aroused his curiosity. 
Now Mike is a successful securities account executive in our Des Moines office. 
Last year his income was good. This year, it was better-a 75% increase. His potential, like his sales "territory", Is unlimited. He can go as far as ability and hard work can take him. 
And there's something else. "In this business," Mike says, "you can look forward to every day. No two are the same. They're always interesting, often exciting and tremendously satisfying." 
Mike says, '"Besides all of the above at the end of each year, I own a piece of the business without any cost to me because I am part of an employees ownership plan." 
Right now we are seeking additional people. If you think an investment sales career is right for you, talk to us now. 
If you qualify, we'll train you for six months on salary, as we did Mike. 
~.-To apply, send 
~ resume to Don Renier. 
R. G. DltJKINSON & tJO. 
INVESTMENT BANKERS 
910 Grand Ave. Des Moines, Iowa 50309 
April 2-5 by calling 3322 or 3321 
1437 N .Ironwood Dr. 

~@• Rosters may consist of any ND-SMC student,
South Bend 

~ faculty, or staff (at least 6, no more than 8)
277-0615 
Sue, Ruthie, Kim 

Rosters with players' & captain's name and number phone are to 
Armando-stylist 

be turned in to 314 Keenan Hall no later than 5 pm, April 5. ·•You may be on only one team • No roster, no team!
mon-fri 8-5:30 sat 8-2 
• First round games begin on April 9
by appt. only sat-no appt. ne !ded 

There will be only 128 teams, so re ister soon. 
The Observer 


• Women's Week 

Tuesday, April 3, 1979 -page 4 
• • • Nuclear 
[continued from page IJ 
in universities as part of biology and physiology. "It was," Kaufman said, "the male version of biology.'' 

Kaufman recited some excerpts from the work entitled "Getting A Head" from Una Stannard's latest book, Mrs. Man. This passage documents the "ludicrous thinking of man as head and woman as womb." She uses a juxtapositioning of data with quotes from authoritative figures to ridicule conventional scholarship in her writing. 
An example of this is her essay, "Why ~ittle Girls Are Sugar and Spice an~ When They Grow Up They Become Cheesecake." According to Kaufman this essay uses a burlesque humor unique in its subtlety. 

The quotes used by Stannard are by authors, particularly in the 17th and 18th centuries, who describe women in terms of edible food.They parody the rr.asculine fogic and scholarly texts which equate edible and sexual appetites, carnal knowledge and the carnivorous, and uses such 
[continued on page 8] [continued from p_age 1] 
failed, apparently because of the high radiation, and officials had some concern about the possibility offurther instrument failures. _ 
But the signals were clear: the situation had improved substantially. 
Yesterday, technicians con­tinued efforts to eliminate the bubble completely, chiefly by the method they have been using all along: letting gas dissolve in the constantly circu­lating cooling water and then allowing it to escape from the water outside the reactor. 
Technicians also studied op­tions on exactly how to achieve the "cold shutdown" which would go a long way to ending the crisis. 
George Troffer, an official with Metropolitan Edison, which operates the faciltiy, siad radioactive releases had been halted at the site. 
And NRC's Denton said that radiation beaming from the plant was at low levels in a confined area. 
The bubble, which had threatened an explosion that could have ripped the lid off the reactor dome and SJ?ewed radia­tion, began shrinkmg dramati­cally Sunday and continued throughout the day and night, Troffer said. 
The latest developments gave officials more time to cool down the reactor. The critical time for a possible explosion from a chemtcal reaction within the reactor "has moved consid­erably out'' from the five days Denton had predicted on Sun­day, he said. 
It was the most encouraging statement to date from the NRC since Wednesday's accident, which had led the governor to urge pre-; school children and pregnant women to stay further than five miles from the plant and prompted an estimated 50,000 persons to voluntarily leave the Harrisburg area. 
Meanwhile, all schools within 10 miles of the plant were closed yesterday, and some state government offices re­ported up to one-third of their employees stayed home. Fac­tories and businesses were stung by absenteeism and' operated with skeleton staffs. 
Customers queued up in banks, trying to withdraw yes­terday before an evacuation was announced, state banking officials said. 
But Denton said it was his opinion that with conditions improving at Three Mile Island, an evacuation was not war­ranted. ] ohn McGreevy, ad­ministrator of Polyclinic Med­ical Center Harrisburg's largest hospital, said, "I have been told by very reliable sources there are not evacuation plans in the forseeable future~'' 
Meanwhile, the NRC moved to avoid future cooling system breakdowns elsewhere, ordering officials at seven other nuclear plants to explain what they are doing to prevent similar fail­ures. All seven were designed by Babcock and Wilcox Co., the firm which drew up plans for Three Mile Island. 
Plant engineers at Three Mile Island shrunk the gas bubble by allowing the hydro­gen in the reactor's cooling water to escape into another building, just as carbon dioxide bubbles out of a soda bottle when the cap is removed and pressure is released. 
At the same time, the oxygen tricled into the hydro~en bub­ble, -which for a ume had threatened to create a chemical reaction and a subsequent ex­plosion, was not increasing as rapidly, Denton said. 
The bubble itself, once up to 1,800 cubic feet, was reduced to as small as 50 cubic feet, although Denton added, ''I don't want to be stampeded into saying that the bubble actually is that size.'' 
Besides posing the explosion problem, the bubble theoreti­cally could have expanded, forcing cooling water away from the uranium-filled fuel rods. The result of that would have been overheating of the rods, with a disastrous meltdown occurring at 5,000 degrees Fah­renheit. 
Only two fuel cells, out of 177, were over 400 degrees as of yesterday, Denton said . 
campus 





'Be Reconciled'
miniStry 
Lenten 




Penance Service 
Bishop William McManus 
'·.' 

Celebrant 
Wed. April 4th lOpm Sacred Heart Church 
J. 
(Confessors available following service)/;·: 
--~""' 


• • . Attacks 
[continued from page 3] or a militia organization did not sponsor the attack, observers here believe the heated climate created by the current anti­American campaign encour­aged the incident. On March 26, the day Egyp­tian and Israeli leaders signed the peace treaty in Washington, two bombs exploded outside the U.S. Embassy to Syria in Damascus . . No one was hurt in that incident. ' The area of the Beirut em­bassy is heavily populated with lefti<>t Lebanese militiamen alig-'1ed to the Palestinian cause 

Jazz Festival seeks students 
The N:D. Collegiate Jazz Festival is lookin~ for people to work the concesswns stand and watch the doors in exchan~e for the evening's free admisswn. 
All those interested please call The Ombudsman (6283) to sign up. Also, plan to attend a short meeting Thursday at 12:30, Caron Court, LaFortune. 
in a predominatly Moslem neighborhood. 
Because of the sensitive loca­tion and previous breaches of security, the embassy is tightly guarded by Lebanese police, private Lebanese security guards and a 30-man contin­gent of U.S. Marines who carefully check out persons visiting the building. 
Chertok presents jazz films 
Dave Chertok, jazz film col­lector, will present jazz films at 
7: 30 in Washington Hall. 
Chertok, who has one of the largest jazz film collections, will show films of major performers throughout jazz history. In­cluded in the films are Miles Davis, Billie Holiday, Charlie Parker, John Coltrane and Louis Armstrong. A question­and-answer session will follow the films. 
The presentation is co-spon­sored by the Collegiate Jazz Festival and the Student Union. 
The Observer Tuesday, April 3, 1979 -page 5 

AIESEC to sponsor Careers Seminar 

AIESEC (International Asso­ciation of Economics and Bus­iness Students), is holding the first of two parts of their International Careers Seminar today at 2:45 p.m. 
The first of two sessions today will cover international marketing and will stress career entrance opportunities. Guest speakers and faculty members will provide the insights and all questions will be fielded. 
The second session this after­noon will address International Accounting and is scheduled to begin around 4:15p.m. 
This seminar has been de­signed to further the interna­tional feeling that is developing on campus and to make stu­dents aware of the great career orportunities in the tnternation­a arena. 
Part two of The International Careers Seminar is scheduled for Thursday and will begin at 
2:45 p.m. The disciplines to be discussed will be international law and international finance. This part will follow a similar format and will be based upon presentations by guest speak­ers and faculty members. 

In contract dispute 

Teamsters launch strike 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Un­ionized trucking firms began complying today with an indus­try-ordered nationwide lockout of 300,000 truckers after the Teamsters union launched a limited strike in a contract dispute snagge i on President Carter's inflation guidelines. 
The shutdown is expected to 
affect a major portion of the 
nation's over-the-road freight 
business. 
Although estimates of the im­pact on the economy vary substantially, industry execu­tives have predicted that pro­duct shortages and manufactur­ing shutdowns would begin within a week and that a "serious economic crisis" could develop within two weeks. 
Many trucking firms, antici­pating a strike, made early shipments of orders before the Teamsters ordered a walkout at midni~ht Saturday. 
lniual indications from the 
federal government were that 
serious economic disruptions 
would not develop for a few 
days. 
Trucking Management Inc., the bargaming arm for more than 500 major trucking firms, ordered the shutdown Sunday, just hours after union pickets went U{J at selected trucking compantes. In a lockout, em­ployers refuse to allow their employees to work. 
Labor Department officials met within hours of industry's 
Mechanical Engineers sponsor talk 
The American Society of Mechanical Engineers will sponsor a talk by John W. Lucey, associatc professor of aerospace and mechanical engi­neering, on the subject of the Three Mile Island nuclear plant tonight at 8 p.m. in Rm. 303 of the Engineering Ruilding. 
Lucey will present slides and charts of the plant to update interested persons and to ex­plain the causes, alternate solu­tions, and hazards of radiation. 
Preceding the talk, at 7:30, there will be an election of officers for the society. 

announcement to plan what steps, if any, the administration would take. Administration officials indicated they probably would wait several days before deciding whether to seek a back-to-work order. 
''We strongly believe that the best way to resolve this dispute is through the collective bargaining process," Labor Secretary Ray Marshall said after the meeting. 
He said federal mediators will continue to work with the two sides ''and we remain hopeful that a settlement will be negotiated soon." 
The union charged in a statement yesterday that the industry ordered a lockout be­cause it "is intent upon creat­ing a crisis in order to pressure the administration into seeking a Taft-Hartley (back-to-work) injunction." 
However, the union con­tended "a substantial seg­ment'' of the industry is not involved in the dispute and many carriers are refusing to join the lockout and are signing contracts with the Teamsters. 
Clear Light Society tries for mar~fuana legalization 
TOKYO (AP) -An organiza­tion called the Clear Light Society -in what is believed to be the first move of this kind in Asia -is planning a symposium to urge the legalization of marijuana in Japan. 
The society, with about 300 members, has scheduled the symposium for June 5 to point up what it complains are harsh laws against marijuana use here and in other parts of Asia. 
The laws provide a maximum death penalty in Malaysia, South Korea and the Philip­pines; maximum life imprison­ment in Hong Kong; 30 years and 15 strokes of the cane in Singapore; seven years impri­sonment in Japan, and three years' imprisonment in India. 
Koh Akutagawa, 45, who heads the Clear Light Society, said, "The law, we believe, violates civil liberties and is as unconstitutional as the ban on alcohol in some places in the old days.'' 
Akutagawa is a prominent Oriental-style painter and a defendant in a marijuana case. He said in an interview that many doctors and research groups, including the U.S. Na­tional Institute on Drug Abuse, have held that marijuana is not an addictive drug. 
One recent NIDA report was reported to have said, however, it did not regard marijuana as harmless. 
Many western countries, he said, today pursue a policy that possession and use of mari­JUana should no longer be against the law. . 
"Our movement isn't in­tended to encourage people to smoke hemp because we like it," Akutagawa said. "We just want to see the law revised so that citizens can decide whether to us it as in the case of alcohol.'' 
A metropolitan police official said that the Clear Light mem­bers "are free to meet and speak. Japanese judicial offi­ctals declined commment on the constitutionality of Japan's 31­year-old marijuana law estab­lished at the request from the ten U.S occupation force. 
[continued on page 10] 

K of C to hold meeting 
There will be a general meeting of the Knights of Columbus at 10:00 p.m. tonight at the council hall. All mem­bers are asked to attend. Many upcoming programs will be dtscussed. 
There will also be an initia­tion ceremony on Sunday, April 
8. All men and women in­terested in joining the Knights of Columbus are asked to attend a brief session tonight at 
9:30 before the general meet­ing or call the Council at 7018. 

21st Annual Collegiate Jazz Festival 
featutlng Joe Sample Phllly Joe Jones Richard Davis Stanley Turrentine Buddy Defranco Not Adderley Jethro Burns and the notion's best college jazz bonds 
April 6&7 Stepan Center 
Tickets at NDSU and'SMC box offices and the door Fri. Eve. $4.50 Sat. Aft. $2.50 Sat. Eve. $4.00 All session pass $7. 50 
Thurs. April 5 Wine & Cheese Potty 8-12 pm 1st Unitarian Church 
Jesus Christ Superstar 7,9,11 pm eng. oud. 
Friday April 6 Jesus Christ 7,9,11 pm eng. oud. 
Collegiate Jazz Festival 
turdoy April 7 Jazz Festival 





Editorials 
Tuesday, April 3, 1979 -page 6 
P. 0. Box Q 
Communists supposedly in the that the majority of homosexu­
A different value 
State Department. That is, als have a choice in bt>ing quote an outlandish figure homosexual. Therefore the

system 

pulled out of the air with no comparison doesn't work. No Dear Editor: documentation and state it as one is forcing anyone to be fact. The final effect is that homosexual. If you have a 
After reading the editorial by most people reading Mr. choice it becomes not a ques­Mark Amenta in last Friday's Amenta's article doubt his cre­tion of rights but of alterna­Observer about the homosexual dibility, and with good reason. tives. Being homosexual lifestyle, I have come to the Secondly, Mr. Amenta says implies an entirely different conclusion that Mr. Amenta is that our society is ' 'straight and value system. Being black or hurting his own cause by over­narrow-minded.'' However, in female does not. Therefore stating his case and using faulty the same breath he condemns when I choose not to associate reasoning in the process. He is family life and life-long commit­with homosexuals it is due to • guilty of using the same tactics ment in marriage. Who's being their value system, and it is my he says his antagonists are narrow-minded? Condemning right not to associate with them using--that is, narrow-minded­the values of the majority won't or be forced to, just as it is my ness and rejection of alternative win him any friends on the right not to associate with life-styles out of hand. op~;>osite side! the people he is Communists, Republicans, left­
My first guarrel with Mr. trymg to convmce. He supports handed flute players from Amenta is hts allegation in a his argument by stating the Upper Volta, or anyone else I previous column that there are fact that homosexuality was may disagree with in principle. 900 gays at ND-SMC, only 30 of accepted iri Ancient Greece. If Let's use nudists as an which happen to belong to his Mr. Amenta would look in example. I don't care if organization. Granted, many, history or anthropology books someone is a nudist or ·not. if not most, homosexuals are he would find that Ancient Nobody is forcing them to be afraid to come out in the open. Greece was an isolated and nudists, and if they choose to be But saying that there are 900 extremely rare case. Therefore nudists, that's their problem. at ND-SMC with no basis in using it as an example to prove It's when they start demanding hard facts is irresponsible. his point that homosexuality is rights for nudists and telling me First of all, Mr. Amenta quotes natural again proves nothing. how I should act toward them a psychologist, Dr. Clark, who Next Mr. Amenta compares that I get worried. What next? is gay himself. Of course he is the gay rights movement to the Sado-masochists? Sun­biased to the gay position. I black civil rights movement and worshippers? So my point is could find just as many hetero­the women's liberation move­that if Mr. Amenta or anyone sexual psychologists who would ment. What is really involved else wants to be a homosexual strongly disagree with Dr. here is the matter ofchoice. As that's his business, and if he Clark. Neither of us would I recall blacks and women have wants homosexuality to be prove anything. But worse, little choice in being black or accepted by the rest of us he Mr. Amenta is using a tactic female. But if we accept Dr. should come up with some that reminds me of Senator Clark's reasoning that 96 per­better arguments. 
Joseph McCarthy's allegations cent_of the population starts life about the huge numbers of as btsexual, then we must say Jack Heraty 

Siiniflcant other person 
art buchwald 

WASHINGTON--My colleague, Robert Toth ''This is Thelma, who does everything for me of the Los Angeles Times, has finished a but windows." six-month research job on what ,eeople should "This is Marty, who has forsaken all others call the person they live with tf they aren't temporarily while we're having a meaningful married. relationshil?_.' ' 
The Ford Foundation, for example, preft•.i It is difficult to introduce someone y-ou're Meaningful Associate, The National Academy of living with to friends, but it's much harder to Sciences prefe~s Special_ Fr:iend, George Wash­explain that person to one's parents, particularly 
ington Umverstty likes Stgnificant Othe_r P~rson, to mothers and fathers who were ratsed under 
which has been bowdlenzed to My Stgmf"!.c~t different rules. Other. "Marvining" is a new word for hvmg Our group had its toughest time thinking up together coined in honor of the actor Lee satisfactory introductions to parents. Marvin. (A woman when introducing her roomie Among those we played around with were: 
might say, "This is my Marvin.") "Dad, this is Peter. He's the main reason you 
ft is not my intention to steal Mr. Toth's don't have to pay for my apartment any more." thunder and use up all the research he so "Mom, I'd like you to meet a gal just like the painstakingly collected during the past half­gal who married dear old Dad, with one year, but rather add to it. exception.'' 
A small band of us devoted an entire "Pop, this is Larry, who has been stayidg with three-martini luncheon to the problem the other me since my cat died.'' 
day. "Mother, I know you don't speak French, but I would like you to meet my bonne a tout faire.'' 
Here are some of the suggestions that were "Father remember when I went off to school, thrown our. 1and you said I would meet a lot of men who wereA person could introduce a roomie as: up to no good? Well, here_'s the first ~ne. '.' .
"My friend who has been living with me for Many government agenCies and multmatton& · three years until she finds an apartment." 
corporations still take a dim view of unmarried "My favorite footwarmer." ­couples living together. Therefore, a person"My illegal better half." 
must be douoly careful when explaining such a''The woman I love who someday may sue relationship to the boss.
me." 

"IBM max think Mr. Pinkerton and I ~e "The only person who answers my telephone lovers, but If you check Jour computer agam 
when I'm not there. " you'll find we're just goo friends.' "My night watchman." "Mr. Carruthers, I believe }'Ou've heard me "The little lady who irons my shirts, although speak about Alfred, who lives with his mother on 
we never applied for a marriage license." weekends.'' 
"My designated boarder." "I don't care what the FBI report says. The When lou go to a party you could say: lady in question happens to be my stepsister "May-introduce you to Harry? He s never who can't get on a plane to Chicago." 
said 'I do' but he does." ''This is Greta. I tried to be my own best "I would like you to meet Goerge, who parks friend but it didn't work." his car in my garage." [c]1979, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 
List provokes hard feelings 
Dear Editor: 

In the Wednesday, March 14th, issue of The Observer. the following full-page ad ap­peared: 
''The Notre Dame Student 
Union Presents an evening 
with .... 
BILLYJOEL." 

The tickets, selling for $8.50 and $10.00 apiece, were to go on sale Tuesday, March 27th, at 9 at the ACC box office. On the previous Monday, a student lottery was held for those students wishing to avoid the crowd and try their luck at getting a decent number. With Billy Joel being as popular as he is, understandably there was a large crowd of students at the lottery and understandably many of these were unable to purchase tickets. 
But another fact enters the picture. Sometilne on Friday, March 23rd, some Billy Joel admirers not affftliated with the University of Notre Dame in any way began organizing a list for those people waiting to purchase tickets via the ACC. They manned cars in the ACC parking lot and posted a 24-hour guard on gate 10, approaching all potential ticket purchasers with their "list." Any person whose name was on the "list" was asked to "check­in' ' every three hours to the "officials in charge" in order to maintain his or her position on the "list." 
Nell£ BACK TAJ.J<JN61J/17H 
OR. AUMAH/WI, '7"/, ON 
/.£AVE FlliJM71E IR.ANIIW 
ReVOWT/ONAizy "TI«JUNAL, ANO litRE ON CAMt'f.5 FOR H/5 FIFTH /?£UNION! 
I 

I WON/JtR.IF Yf1J (1}{1.1) 7EU.. l/5 50ME7HIN6 SUCH tF 7115 OTHIR. AS? 5/IJE, "THe HU~ f 
MAN5tlJ5 .. 
"\ 


Perhaps most ironically, the evening before tickets did go on sale, the oq~anizers of the list dispensed wtth checking-in un­til the following morning. Essentially the "list" replaced the line. What kept people from si~ning up on the hst and then gomg home to bed, never having spent a minute in line? 
Due to this lack of communi­cation, uninformed potential ticket purchasers began ar­riving on the scene at the ACC during the early morning hours of Tuesday, 3/27, only to be approached by the unofficial watchdogs about adding their names to the now-long list. 
Despite these many unan­swered questions and grum­blings among the crowd, ticket purchasing went along rather smoo~hly (and .non-violently). Secunty officers announced to the crowd that the Friday list was "binding" (i.e. it had been signed by an official from the ACC administration). What of the students who had staged an after-midnight vigil at the doors of the ACC? 
Mr. Busick, ACC ticket manager, stated on Tuesday morning that this is the general procedure for any Notre Dame concert of the recent past. Some students have even told me that it is the same outsider who organizes the list for e\'ery concert, he being first in line for each. But if this is "general procedure," why isn't it publi­cized and why doesn't the ticket office management take re­sponsibility for an N.D. concert instead of letting an outsider do its dirty work? A procedure for ticket purchasing should be worked out and publicized and maybe there will be fewer hard feelings about future concerts. 
-A Concerned Student 
IR. M/¥11¥/V/, FOR. OVER. A YEAR N01U, ~CANS HAVI3 BEeN HEAKJN6 ABoUT "THe QIIIQ(, !iiNIS­~ 51/Jt OF IMN'5 
8eM/JE(J ID/..Y !IAN. 
' 
SHAHS. IS "THIS 
GCJNG7f) 

~:.IJN6? 
administration of either institution.
_The Observer_ Editorial Board 
The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Features Editor .......Chris Stewart represent the opimon of a majority of Mana~ing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor .......... Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor . : .... K. Connelly
The Observer is an independent 
their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewis Business Manager ..... Steve Odland newspaper published by students of able to all members of the community, News Editor ............ Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan 
the Umversity of Notre Dame and 
and the free expression of varying News Editor .......... Mike Shields Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is Saint Marv's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ..... .Bob Rudy
necessarily reflect the policies of the 
encouraged. Sports Editor ...........Mark Perry Controller ........... John Tucker 
Tuesday, April 3, 1979 -page7

Features 

Camus and Suicide 
Absurd Revolt: The Evolution of Consciousness 
Chris Stewart, Features Editor 
This is the second installment of a series which re-examines Camus' u11dersta11ding of suicide as acqui­esce11ce, not genuine metaphysical rebellio11 agai11st his condition. The fi,a/ part Will be in Fnday 's Obseroer. 
Another portrait of the absurd man, where he i~ being wooed by the Seducer religion reveals a man frozen 10 consciOusness, diffident to the promise of religious salvation and threat of eternal damnation. 
" ... The absurd man is tempted ... He is asked to leap. All he can reply is that he doesn't fully understand, that it is not obvious. He does not want to do anythin~ but what he fully understands. He IS assured that this is the sin of pride, but he does not understand the notion of sin; that perhaps hell is in store, but he has not enough imagination to visualize that strange future; that he is losing immortal life, but that seems to him an idle consideration. An attempt is made to get him to admit his guilt. He feels innocent. To tell the truth, that is all he feels-his irreparable innocence. ' ' 
The absurd man is an eclectic. Essentially, he appropriates the necessary components from a multiplicity of sources; history, reason, experience, intuition, and the irrational. 

The Talking Head 
The Talking Head, with the help of its reliable source "Deep Ear," has uncovered a diabolical plot devised by the Administration to strike fear in the hearts of Notre Dame youngsters. The following is an unedited text of a conversation between Fr. Van and Fr. Ted, exposing for the first time the inner workings of high-level policy making at Notre Dame. The conspira­cy will be called: Carrollgate. 
Ted: Well, we managed to avoid a housing crisis. But we were lucky. Only one of the two plans worked. Van: I told you. The old "lottery scare" works every time. But what about that other plan, the one you said would get the students so riled up du Lac would look like The 
The principle objective of the absurd life is to live without appeal. To live in the absurd plane of consciousness is to stand alone-to live without appeal to any eternal or higher power, without hope in any eternal promise, without the support of any theological or metaphysical framework which reduces the world to a single unifying concept. 
Negation is the chief component for the existential thinker in his relation to the external world. "Negation is their god. God is maintained only throu~h the negation of human reason.' Through the negation, the absurd man is able to "shed light upon the step taken by the mind when, starting from a philosophy of the world's lack of meaning, it ends up by finding a meaning and depth in it.'' 
The absurd man is above all a thinker, whose mind by its paradoxical nature, inexorably refuses him the knowledge he so eagerly seeks. Camus' understanding of thought, and its concomitant call to a slumbering consciousness to arise and waken, is analagous to Nietzsche's chain of "seeing,_""thinking", and "writing" in Twilight of the Idols. There is a chain of command, whereby thinking is the springboard to consciousness, which focuses the mind, so that it can properly "see" reality as ·it is rather than as we hope or expect it to be. To Camus, "thinking is not a unifying principle. Thinking is learning all over again how to see, directing one's consciousness by making every image a priveleged place. Absurd thought inuially asserts that there is no truth, but merely truths.'' 
Consciousness is connected to thought in that "it illuminates it by paying attention to it; consciousness does not form the object of its understanding, it merely focuses, it is the act of attention.". Therefore, when we later examine suicide, the person who commits the act of suicide thinks the world has become meaninsless for him/her. Actually, his consciOusness is merely focusing on one aspect of the individual life which is somehow connected to the foundational meaning which has rooted that person's life up to that point. The focus of the consciousness can paralyze thought, and hold its attention on one aspect alone, which then induces suicide. (The idea of a very rational person coming to a blinding realization that his life is ridiculous, absurd, it has lost all meaning, for whatever reason; therefore, he kills himself because life, as he previously thought, no longer had any meaning for him). 
What the suicidal person does not 
understand is that hfe can have many 
divergent meanings, or no meaning 
at all. It depends upon one's 
individual perspective, openness to change, and the willingness to struggle to achieve an absurd, and refreshingly new awareness of things. The suicidal person tends to dismiss other ways of seeing as irrelevant to their particular situation. Unless he can be persuaded to actually, and not just descriptively, see differently, then the act of suicide will mask his deeper and more relentless urge toward resolution of the unbearable conflict within him. 
When the consciousness emerges and the mind is slowly advancin~ in illumination, there are three distinct directions for the mind to go. 
a)Regression-the phase whereby growth is intentionally aborted, because the requisite change is painful to initiate. 
b) 
Suicide-what one learns oneself-the falseness, illusions, 
stupidity, evil, ignorance, ad i · may be too overwhelming for the individual; or the J?ath of trans­formation may likew1se appear too long to complete or too arduous to inaugurate. Suicide quickly alleviates the suffering of the life and its special fate. 

c) 
Revolnhrough defiance. This is the absurd life. 


To be continued 

Deep Ear and The Carrollgate Conspirators 
plan where there'd be so many student demonstrations and outright breaking of rules that you could kick off as many students as you couldgather i.d.'s? Ted: The Carroll Plan didn't work. Not 
one lousy protest. No way to kick anyone out. Not after they found out it was a plot to solve the housing problem. I still don't know how that O'Hare guy figured it out. Van: Get one of your top aides to find out for you. Ted: Good idea. I'll put McKenna on it ... Actually, I'm rather disappointed. It looks like the students aren't really serious about the parietals issue after all. Van: Bummer! Just when I found out what parietals means. Ted: I can't believe they went through the proper channels · . The last 
time anyone went throu~h a channel and actually got somethmg done was June 6, 1944. That was the English 
Channel. Van: You'd think they'd know better 
by now. I thought you said the 
students are gettmg smarter each 
year. Or are Emil's quizzes just 
getting easier? Ted: The kids are smarter, but they've 
got no spunk. This job is no fun when 
there's no competition. Remember 
the good old days back in the 60's? I'd 
really enjoy a nice little student revolt 
right now. Just to see if we've still got 
it, just to see if the old 15-minute rule 
still works. Of course, this is off the 
record. Van: That's my line, Ted. 
Ted: Let's stick to one student issue at 
a time. 

Van: I've got an idea! Let's bring Dow Chemical and CIA recruiters on cam­pus. It worked in '69. Ted: They've already been here this year. The only recruiters who could rile up the students like that now 
·would be from U.S.C. or Alabama. Van: I've got it! If you want a protest, you've got to take away the students' most precious right. Ted: You mean we haven't already? Van: No. I mean hit them where it hurts. Close the library on Sunday nights. They'll be climbing the walls like you've never seen before. Ted: That could work, but it mi~ht be dangerous. Will we need anythmg to control them? Tear gas? Billy clubs? Van: No, just lots ofSucrets--for aU the sore throats. 


-------------~-----------­
The Observer 


[Photo by Ron Szot]
------------------------------1 
SMC student government sponsors 
women's Qpportunity week (WOW): Celebrating Women in the Arts Monday April 2 
7:45 am film:~ntonia :Portrait of the Woman (produced by Judy Collins) Dining Hall 
4-Spm presentation: feminist humor Gloria Kaufman, author Stapleton 7pm Women as Visual Artists: Margottof 232 Moreau 10 pm film: Antonia: Portrait of the Woman Dining Hall 


L----------------------------­
We're Looking For People With Class ****************************** 
The Student Union Services 
Commission now taking applications for the following positions: ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER 
REFRIGERATOR RENTAL COORDINATOR BOOK EXCHANGE COORDINATOR
• 

ON CAMPUS MAILMAN 
FREE UNIVERSITY COORDINATOR
I 
L 
****************************** 
Applications available in S.U. Offices, 2nd tl.oor LaFortune Volunteers also needed for Services Commission Task Force 
sign up in Student Union Offices l 
L 
SMC ORIENTATION '79 
Applications now being accepted for: 
-chairman -Bie Sister/Little Sister Chairman -Asst. chairman -Tours Chairman -Off-campus chairperson -General Committee workers -Publicity chairperson 

Applications available in the Student Activities Office ­166 LeMans -Deadline -Monday, April 9th. Applications will not be accepted after April 9th. 
Tuesday, April 3, 1979 -page 8 
Buzaid. Her wool blanket, with tts irregular pattern of vertical
• • . Isis 
and horizontal lines, "repre­sents mountains," she said. "I
[continued from pagel] 

wanted to express the idea of Dits, came long before the mountains, but weaving physical process. restricts you to horizontals and 
"I got the idea from the verticals.'' That limitatior. Saturday night dinners my resulted in an "abstract" pat­friends and I get toether for tern of peaks and valleys, every week,'' Dtt~, a Chr_istian, accentuated by the wool's sub­said. ''The ] ews got together dued earth tones. on the Sabbath to eat bread and Buzaid, like many of the cheese, talk and take it easy. senior artists who have dis­It was their day of rest. The played their talents throughou­same theme applies to us and the festival week, uses forums we thought it was a nice image like the Senior Arts Festival to to borrow. " present her creations to the 
In addition to Dits' Sabbath public. She intimated that she dishes, the opening at the Isis still has a few artistic aces up Gallery featured hand-built pot­her sleeve and they will be on tery of the coil and box forms display to the general public in along with several examples of the Isis Gallery Thursday, when "fiber structures" or textiles. she shares the spotlight with 
Preferring to avoid more her roommate, Meg Auth. technical terms such as ''fiber Among the works that will be sculpture" or "textile," Ann on display tonight from 7-8:30 Buzaid, a senior art major from are a tapestry weaved by Notre Danbury Connecticut, termed Dame basketball star Bruce her contribution simply "a Flowers and two handmade weaving.'' instruments --a banjo and a 
In weavingj the form defines dulcimer --crafted by Mark the design, according to Prus. 
• • . Women's ~week 
[continued from page 4] 
descriptions as "lips as cherries." Every part of 
the female anatomy was compared to food 
except legs which didn't become edible until the 
20th century when they finally became visible. 
According to Kaufman, feminism became an "eight letter word" with the writing of Mary EHmann in Thinking about Women. While many writers saw feminism as a derogatory term, EHmann pointed out that Shakespeare used it to indicate highly admirable qualities in men. EHmann's writing is based on an expansive knowled~e of wnters, and she quotes heavily from them 10 her book. 
The selections Kaufman read from EHmann 'illustrated views of the feminine mind seen as a "closed space" by male thinkers. "Her humor is full of comic metaphors and unexpected ima~ery which is hilariously appropriate to the subJect," Kaufman observed. She noted that EHmann compared "the jostling masses of sperm to the single dignity of the ovum" -a satire against the views of the male thinkers. 
Several other selections that Kaufman read were from Are Women People by Alice Duer Miller, a suffragette and journalist. The audience found especially humorous Kaufman's comments on one of two major studies that were conducted on pre-menstrual tension --using all male subjects. 
Kaufman explained that in excerpts from ''A Person Who Menstruates Is Unfit To Be a Mother" by Hadley V. Baxendaly, the author argues that since ''motherhood ts a full time profession calling for a mature dependable person,'' woman are unfit to handle the job since a biological event such as the menstrual period unbalances them emotionally. This piece, which described the "tensions" of the menstrual period as lasting three out of four weeks each 
month,  brought  fits  of  laughter  from  the  
audience.  
Kaufman  ended  her  talk  by  noting  that  

traditionaHy, humor and comedy have not been as important as od,er art forms. ''Yet an equally important function of art is to share visions or perceptions that are life-enhancing, and that allows us to see--underneath or above all our suffering--the abiding values of human experi­ence. " 
''That is the particular aim of feminist humor," she explained. "It is not a new fonn of art. It is very old. And it has helped us survive.'' 
In another presentation last evening Bridget Clarke and Cecelia Mitchel, students of Margo Hoff, showed slides of paintings by American women during the last 100 years. Hoff, artist in residence at Saint Mary's since 1969, explained many of her own works from recent years which use the medium of the canvas collage. She emphasized the importance of studying the w.orks of a living artist since their art is still _, xpanding. 
• • . Default 
[continued from page 1] 
said in the letter. A vote on the bill-this year's pen" if the legislation was not He continued: "The full first major battle over deficit passed. consequences of a default by spending -was expected today 
The Democratic leader the United Staes are impossible when Republicans try to bring blamed Republicans who want to predict and awesome to up a stringent balanced budget to balance the federal budget anticipate. Denigration of the amendment . for holding up House action full faith and credit of the The old debt limit of $798 "purely for political reasons." United States would have incal­billion expired Saturday, throw­
"The United States has not culable effects on the domestic in~ the government into a fiscal defaulted on any of its debt money markets and on the cnsis and raising the possioility obligations since the founding value of the dollar in exchange _that there might not be enough of the republic,'' Blumenthal markets." money to cover Social Security 
checks scheduled for delivery Tuesday to 35 million Ameri­cans.

Writing Workshop 
Treasury Department sources, who asked to remain anonymous, raised the possibil­

for SMC Observer Staff 
ity of the government being able to pay its most pressing bills by shifting available funds from accounts where they were
Tuesday night April 3 
not urgently needed to those where the need was greater.
7:00pm 
SMC office-Basement of 
Buy Classifieds 
Regina South 
from 

MANDATORY 
The Observer
Two N.D. staffers will conduct the meeting 
l L 
The Observer Tuesday, April3, 1979 -page 9 

by Beth Wtllard 

Walsh Hall, former home of such notables as Knute Rockne, the Gipper, and University


Walsch Hall 

Presidents Fathers Cavanau~h and Hesburgh, celebrates Its 70th birthday this week. Resi­dents of the hall have planned activities each day. A birthday party and a happy hour will highlight the activites, accord­ing to coordinator Amanda 
opens doors, 


celebrates 

Bernheim. The festivities began with a hall birthday party last night in 
bl.rthday 
the SoutJ-1 
lounge of Wals~.

70th Approximately 100 girls gathered to eat birthday cake and mingle with other Walsh residents. Pianist Kathy
this week Campanella, a freshman from 
the hall, provided the back­ground music. ) anie Revord and Mar~aret Ward, the incoming president 

Teamsters strike sends auto workers home. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Thou­sands of auto workers were given short shifts Monday and the prospect of product shor­tages and other disruptions loomed as a trucking industry lockout of 300,000 Teamsters took hold. 
The lockout, ordered by in­dustry executives after the union launched a limited week­end strike over a contract 

-dispute, was. expected to halt a sizable portion of interstate shipments of general freight ­from fresh foods to factory parts -within days. The auto industry was the first ot feel the impact of the industry shutdown. The na­tion's two largest automakers, General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co., said an estimated 48,000 assembly line workers were being sent home early yesterday because of parts shortages, and further _produc­tion cutbacks were immment. A spokesman for Trucking Management Inc., which had ordered the lockout Sunday, said its more than 500 member firms account for 85 percent of the unionized interstate freight business. The spokesman, Norman Walker, said "virtually all" of TMI's members were comply­ing with the lockout -a tactic used in labor disputes In which employers refuse to let their employees work. 
One industry analyst, who asked not to be named, pre­dicted a nationwide shutdown could trigger a ''very serious crisis" in the economy within two weeks. 
Some food stores could run out of fresh foods, particularly meat, within a week, said Robert Dobkin, a spokesman for the retail food industry. "Right now, we'll have to assess this a day at a time," said Dobkin. 
The Carter administration has said it would seek a court order under the Taft-Hartley Act to end either a nationwide strike or lockout if the labor dispute poses a national emer­gency. 
There has never been an in­dustry shutdown of this scope for any length of time. 
As a result, administration officials said yesterday it would take several days for them to determine the impact. 
The only previous industry shutdown came in 1976, when the Teamsters union struck for three days before settling on its last national contract, which expired this past Saturday at midnight. 

Meanwhile,' federal media­tors said it was unlikely that bargainers for the · union and TMI would resume negotiations 
until Thursday at the earliest, 
in part because the union's 350-member national bargain­ing committee is meeting in Chicago on Wednesday. 
Talks broke off over the weekend because of a dispute involving President Carter's anti-inflation wage guidelines. 
Industry negotiators said they offered a three-year pack­age that would boost wages and fnnge benefits by about 30 percent -a figure the industry· said was in compliance with Carter's relaxed wage stand­ard. 
Shuttle changes schedule 
A change in the schedule of off-campus shuttle runs goes into effect this week in response to student complaints that the weeknight shuttle runs were too late, according to Director of Student Activities ] ohn Reid. 
Formerly, the shuttle left the Library at 6 p.m. and midnight on weeknights, and at 6 p.m., midnight, and 2 a.m. Friday and Saturday. Under the new system, the shuttle will leave at 11 p.m. instead of midnight Monday through Friday. Satur­day and Sunday's schedule will remain the same. 
The revised plan calls for the shuttle to leave the Library at 11 p.m., with stops at Campus View at 11:10 p.m., Notre Dame apartments at 11:20 p.m., and the library again at 
11:30 p.m. 
Reid called the present shuttle system, which began last sem­ester, "an attempt to begin service.'' He said that he is ''willing to make limited chan­ges'' in the system to alleviate any pronounced problems. 
Reid added that he, Saint Mary's Director of Student Activites Mary Laverty and the school's co-ex commissioners are in the process of developing a survey on the shuttle to be distributed later this semester. 
"Our goal is a better, more responsive shuttle system for next year," Reid said. "We would like to have the same schedule every day of the week." 
'and vice president, will official­Ito a Happy Hour, complete with of Walsh have been invited, ly assume their new positions at specials, held at Bridget's from and an open invitation is ex­a party held today. ] ane '3-6 p.m. tended to all Notre Dame and Fissinger and Sheila CaJJahan 1 On Saturday afternoon the St. Mary's students. are the new secretary and action will have moved from An open house will be held treasurer. Bridget's to the Bulla Shed. after the talk. Every room in 
''Color to brighten up the Walsh residents andtheir the hall will be open, and entire campus" will be provid­guests will eat hamburgers, ice refreshments will be provided ed by "Happy Birthday" cream and play volleyball at a by the girls on each floor. balloons that will be sold in birthday picnic from 1-4 p.m. Pictures, blueprints and infor­front of the hall from 11 am-1 according to l;'issinger, a coor-marion about past inhabitants pm on Wednesday, according dinator of the events. or events will be posted on to Bernheim. Prof. Schlereth, campus his-doors and bulletin boards. 
Residents of the hall plan to torian, will talk about Walsh The activities hav<' received sit together in one section of the Hall history in the South lounge widespread support from girls South Dining Hall for dinner at 7:30 J?.m., Sunday. Campus who live wirhm the dorm, as Thursday evening, and on Fri-dignitanes, members of the· well as some financial support 
the whole is invited administration and , from the Student Union. 
\ 

If you're planning summer study and live in the New York, New Je Connecticut area, 
·there's one school . you should consider. 
·''?·~~.y;:_:i:;: ·;~;··=·"{.(--;,··"·..---. 
·,.• .•
... 
IONA. An, independent four year college in Westchester County offering: 
• 
Graduate and undergraduate courses 

• 
Courses you want-in a concentrated time span 

• 
Convenience-dose to home and the City 

• 
An informal, productive atmosphere in air conditioned classrooms 


l 

Summer Session undergraduate courses are offered Monday thru Thursday in the Arts, Business and the Sciences in day, and evening sessions. 
First Day Session-June 4th-July llt~ Second Day Session-July 9th-August 10th First Evening Session-June 4th-July 6th Second Evening Session-July 9th-August 10th 
Summer Graduate courses are also offered toward an M.B.A. and an 
M.S. in Education. 
Check out lona during your spring break. The Summer Session affords you the opportunity to make:..up and get a jump on your Fall programs. Check in by completing the coupon, or call for more information. 

• School of Arts and Sc1ence NO 
• 
School of Business Administration 

• 
Division of General Studies 

• 
Graduate School of Business Administration 

• 
Graduate Programs for Education 

• 
Graduate Division of Pastoral Counseling 


I Dept. C • 715 North Avenue • New Rochelle, NY 10801 
I (914) 636-2100 1I Name ________________________________ 
II Address ----------------------------­1City-------State ___ Zip ____ 
I

1Telephone • 
Please send more information about Summer Sessions at IONA. 
--------------------------------~ 
The Observer Tuesday, April 3, 1979 -page 10 

NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) President Idi Amin made a

Amin makes surprise appearance in Jinja
after a raid yesterday by Tan­zanian jets on Uganda's second• • • largest city, residents reported. Startled townspeople at ] inja, 50 miles east of the U~andan capital of Kampala, satd shortly after the morning 


surprtse vtst t 
raid by two MIG-21 jet ftghters Amin appeared and ordered panicking people to return to 


to town after 
•d work.
bombing ra1 According to one witness, Amin said, 'We have shot down the enemy." A second said 

The Daily Crossword­

All Rights Reserved 
NEEDS: 
HELLO, I AM -rllE GaD 
DEAN OFTHE NOFfflt N.JDY(J{)HAVf KILLED nlE 1./IC~ED PE.W CFTHE EAST. NCAJ Yo[} 
AA~ IN DANGER~_....-__..,. 


Amin vowed he would ''teach the attackers a big lesson." He also reportedly inspected dam­age from the raid. 
Exiles in Nairobi said they suspect Amin has been staying in Jinja, 50 miles east of Kampala, which is the head­quarters ofLibyan troops aiding Amin and site of the Maga­maga Ordinance Depot. 
The invading force of Tan­zanians and Ugandan exiles also bombed and shelled an oil depot in the Ugandan capital of Kampala, residents and diplo­mats reported Monday. 
ACROSS 29 Selves 1 Don'tsay 31 Wordplay ­a word! 32 Zodiac sign 6 Hooters 34 Certain 10 Present's films future 39 Boulevard 14 Turkish divider 
title 40 -Hawkins 15 Riding whip Day 16 Destination 41 Place for 
of the 3:10 coins 17 Ward off 42 Put down 18 Minute 44 Theatrical 19 Very: Fr. device 20 Profane 45 Menagerie 22 "Thou-46 Hollow stem 
not ... " 48 Baste 23 Henry Clay, 49 Bivouacs for instance 53 "A Farewell 24 Verbal to-" comeback 55 Certain 26 Covering Yugoslavs 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


TAAE TUf Rl}B( ADIDAS ,W{) {:;() 5EE. THf kllZAIU> DULAC. HE WILL GIVE YDIJ .A LEAVE OF 

They said a series of ex­plosions in the early morning in the eastern industna1 area were followed by billowing smoke from a diesel storage tank. The ftre was reportedly put ,out by noon, and the city remained quiet for the rest of the day, the informants said. 
In the T!lnzanian capital of Dar Es Salaam, the Uganda 
· Naitonal Liberation Front ­formed by exiles to replace Amin if he falls -said the tank was blown up by saboteurs. 
On Sunday, Tanzanian MIGs hit the main runway at Entebbe 
56 Natives of 22 Side track Maui 25 -dixit 
61 Between 26 Gentle one fare and 27 Dies-well 28 Aromatic 
62 -price herb 63 Disprove 30 Jewish 64 Formerly, ceremonial 
formerly dinner 65 Salt or 33 Raleigh's 
candy queen 66 Dodge 35 Alert-. 67 Homer man 36 Siteof 68 Arthur of ancient 
the courts Olympics 69 Adjust 37 Abundant store 
DOWN 38 Seethe 1 Nail 40 Arrest 2 Possess 43 Feline 3 Exploits males 4 Virago 44 Devotee 5 Broods 47 Mesozoic, 6 Like a stop for one 
sign 49 Fragrant 7 Habeas cor­compound pus, e.g. 50 Father of 
8 Solitary Indira one, 51 Knight's 9 Major plume Andre, e.g. 52 Drives away 10 Delphic 54 Sifter 
priestess 57 Saucy 11 Airs 58 Arab gar­12 Silvery ments 
fish 59 Stripped 13 Sample 60 Printing 21 Trucker's direction 
eighteen­62 Brother's wheeler title 

Michael Molinelli 


Howard Hall presents 
The Influence of Religion pn the Work-A-Day World in Latin America, the U.S. and Bangladesh 
-a forum conducted by 
Prof. K. 1ameson---Econ. Prof.1. Thorp---Soc.andAnthro. Prof. 1.H. Yoder ---Theology 
Tuesday, April 3 \ -7:00pm 
in Howard Hall ­
International Airport, 21 miles south of Kampala, in the ftrst known Tanzantan air raid of the ftve-month war. There were reports that a Ugandan Boeing 707 was hit and the main runway severely damaged, but telephone links with Entebbe were down throughout the day yesterday and it was not known whether the airport was still usable. 
Residents of Jinja, on the rail-and-road route to Kenya, said the jets came low and dropped about 1three bombs. One fell just outside the Libyan Arab Uganda bank, injuring 15 persons, one seriously. 
Other bombs reponedly fell at or near the Libyan barracks, but witnesses said they did little damage. 
-A man injured at the bank, contacted by telephone at Jinja Hospital, said. the bomb ex­ploded just after 9 a.m. He said the hospital was short of per­sonnel and equipment. 
''When we were rushed to the hospital, there were no nurses," he said. "I have not been treated fully. I was not given any blood and I will have to wait for dressing until tomor­row. I am not able to turn my head now. There is no water in the hospital.'' 
Kampala residents said the city was almost deserted, fuel was no longer available and the market was almost bare. 
No ftring was reported from the western suburbs of the city, where the main force of Tan­zanians and Ugandan exiles was reportedly facing some 2,000 Libyan troops. The invaders were apparently marking time while shelling and bombing strategic targets. 
• • Society
• 
[continued from page 5) 

In the symposium, the two-y year-old society will bring to­gether a dozen or so lawyers, doctors, medical researchers, writers and others, Akutagawa said. 
Akutagawa's indictment id 1977 for smoking hemp which he grew in his yard led to the organization of the Clear Li~ht Society in Kyoto. He remams free pending a final ruling by the Kyoto District Coruth ex­pected late this year. 
"I have two boys, the young­er a 19-year-old high school graduate. Having smoked marijuana for the past several years, I let them smoke it, but ask them to refrain from drink­10g." he said. 
Koichi Tamura, one of the defense attorneys for Akuta­gawa and legal adviser to Clear Light, said Asian nation',, ex­cept perhaps India where can­nabis was banned under British rule, all "copied" marijuana Iaws of western countries after World War II. 
''These nations, as was the case with Japan, skipped any due studies or researches in establishing the marijuana Iaw," he said. \ 
''Until then, many Asian peoples had long been free in growing, and some of them smoking, hemp which was, and Still is, a material for the rope and fabric fiber industry for many centuries.'' 
In South Korea, a rapid 10crease in the number of marijuana smokers led in 1976 to an active, nationwide crack­down on traffickers, growers and smokers, including some big name entertainers. offi. Clals did not say what caused the increase but said 1,460 IP4ersons were arrested that year 
ith a maximum penalty of
lw 
seven years in prison. 

----~­
-----------~ 

The Observer 
Tuesday, April 3, 1979 -page 11 

Umpires continue holdout 
• • . Rose


as season approaches 
Fifty major league umpires remained on the sidelines Mon­day in their continuing contract dispute for as the countdown began for the start of the regular season this week. 
The 1979 season gets under­way Wednesday with San Fran­delphia Phillies game at Clear­water, Fla., on Sunday, and moved over to Lakeland, Fla., for Monday nisht's game be­tween the Cinctnnati Reds and Detroit Tigers. 
Both leagues have said when the regular season starts they 
[continued from page 12) 
Ron Reed as the only healthy starter and Espir;losa, Tug McGraw and Rawly Eastwick in the bullpen. 
Expos . . h . . b
Montreal's st~t~ng etg t remams 10 ta_ct, . ut Manager Dick Wdhams has a far better pttchmg staff and a much deeper bench to work with: around for both starting and relief work. 
Mets 

Everyone else was picking New York to finish dead last. I though I'd be different. You've got to figure that Hebner is worth a few more gamesthan Espinosa. 
The Mets have a few major league players on the roster, but not many. Willie Montanez will 
cisco at Cincinnati in the National League and California at Seattle in the American. Each league had only one regular umpire under contract with rookie Ted Hendry agree­ing to terms with the AL and veteran Paul Pryor signmg a two-year contract with the NL. 
Hendry has he-en workin~ spring training games in An­zona with the blessing of the Major League Umpires Associ­ation which advised him to fulfill terms of his contract since he signed before the current dispute began. Prvor went to work over theweekend, um~ir­ing the New York Mets-Phtla-
Inter hall softball . 

to organzze 
The interhall office has 

announced that there will be an 
organizational meeting for 
undergrad interhall softball to­
day at 4:30 p.m. in the audi­
torium of the ACC (next to the 
football offices). 
There will also be a meeting 

for graduate softball at 5 p.m., 
also in the ACC auditorium. 
If you have any questions, contact the interhall office at 7185 or 6100. 
will replace the absent umpires with minor league and amateur officials. Last August, when the umpires staged a one-day strike, amateurs filled in. Base­ball obtained an injunction against that action, charging it was in violation of the current collective bargaining agree­ment with the umps wbich still has two years to run. 
Field hockey to meet 
Astrid Hotvedt, director of women's athletics, has announced that a field hockey clinic will be held tomorrow at 
7:00 p.m. behind the A.C.C., on Cartier Field. 
All past team members and these Interested in field hockey are invited to attend. Equip­m.~m will be provided. The emphasis of the clinic will be on fun, skill development and exercise. 
For more information contact Sue Mcglinn at 8093, Donna Carini at 3 771 or Coach Hotvedt at 2163 or her office (C4) at the 
A.C C. 
l1 case of bad weather, a raindate ts scheduled for Monday April 9th at the same Around the infield Tony Perez, Dave Cash, Chns Speir, and Larry Parrish have vast potential ... but, will they produce? The Exyos also boast the finest young outfield in al of baseball featuring Warren Cromartie, Andre Dawson, and Ellis Valentine. This rifle-armed trio hit 60 home runs, drove in 204. and hit a cummulative average of .280 in '78. The Expos did quite a bit of off-season work to sure up their .Pitching staff which now features a number of btg name hurlers. Newcomers Bill Lee and Elias Sosa join Steve Rogers, Rudy May, Ross Grimsley, and Woodie Fryman orr a staff that is second only to Pittsburgh. 
Cubs 

Sorry, Cub fans, but your Cubbies will probably finish in the bottom half of the division. The bench is the best it's been in years, but the starters just aren't division contenders and the pitching staff is weak. Bill Buckner is as good a first baseman as there is, especially with the bat, and Ivan De] esus and Steve Ontiveros are more than adequate at short and third. Former Phil Ted Sizemore has a mouth to live up to. 
The Cub's outfield is talented and deep, but Dave Kingman and Bobby Murcer will have to have good years if the team is to finish above .)00. Another newcomer, Jerry Martin, should start in center. Outfielders -beware. Young Scot Thompson wants to play ... alot. 
It is out on the mound where the Cubs are going to need a miracle. Rick Reuschel, Lynn McGlothen, and Ken Holtzman are the only three announced starters. With a 162 game schedule, you need five. Fantastic fireman Bruce Sutter will have to carry an otherwise light bullpen. Ray Burris and Dennis Lamp will be be at first and Hebner will probably return to 
third, the position he played in Ptttsburgh. 
Keep an eye on rookie infielder Kelvin 
Champman. They cut Lenny "One Punch" 
Rauclle to make room for him on the roster. 
They' II have to find a third outfielder before 
Thursday's opener in Chicago. Steve 
Henderson and Lee Mazzilli ~re solid enough. 
The biggest bright spot ·,;; behind the plate 
where John Stearns mi~~.t have to plav 162 
games. Last year, Stf' 1ns hit .264, belted 15 
homers, drove in 73 run.,, and stole 25 bases (not 
bad for catcher!). 

The Mets have two pitchers and they're both 
winners. Righthanders Craig Swan (9-6, 2.43 
ERA) and Pat Zachary (10-6, 3.33 ERA) head up 
the poorest staff in the major leagues. 
St. Louis 

The Phillies wish they had the Cardinals 
jpitching staff (it's better than nothing) and 
the Cards wish they had the Phils bats, so says 
manager Ken Boyer. He feels that pitching is 
the strong suit, but that's not saying much for a 
team with only two hitters with averages above 
.280. 

John Denny (14-11, 2.96 ERA) and Bob Forsch 
(11-17, 3. 70 ERA) will lead the starting rotation. 
Mark Littel (4-8, 11 saves, 2.80 ERA) and Jim 
Willoughby (1-6, 13 saves, 3.87) ERA) will get a 
lot of relief work. 

All-Star catcher Ted Simmons is outstanding in every asRect of the game. In '78, he hit 22 home runs, drove in 80, and hit .287 -all team highs. Outfielder George Hendrick also swings a potent bat (20, 75, .277 with San Diego and St. Louis). The only other offensive punch comes from shortstop Gary Templeton who batted .280 and stole 34 bases last season.
time. 
All classified ads must be received by 5 00 p.m .. two days prior 10 the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will ~ccept classifieds Monday through Friday. 10 00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All 
cla~s1fieds must be pre·paid. either in person or th1ough the ma11
Classifieds 
Green Beer Club, Mags,It's reunion time. Topics of discussion: Happy birthday. Have a drink for me Ambulances ad Popes. and Char and Frank and...
For Sale
O.K. CHESTERTON House for rent, summer only, close to 
N.D. Chesterton Society forming. Inte­campus, excellent condition, will accomo­Stud love, Big Lais rested faculty and students write: Paul date one to five students. For informa­19n MGB Roadster, 8000 miles, green, 
Kevin G, Marie Y. (a.k.a. Smick Chick),
Wood, 304 St. Joseph Hall. tion call 287-5361 evenings. AM/FM, perfect condition, 289-1482. 
We're glad to know that you are to We all realized that you are modest as greatest Springsteen fan that ever lived can be, but did you ever tell anyone theCelebrate the spring with a walk to House for rent for summer. 4 bedroom. 
FOR SALE: 1973 Mazda RX3, good (besides us) Here's our famous last way you motivate boots? How about
Pandora's! Just amile walk (or log) from Call 283-6637. condition, $500 or best offer. ·Call Terry words to you ..."Well--we gotta go now." motivating me?
N.D. Happy Hour -all used bOOks Vz Dunne at 283-8393. 
Soupy II and Spacey I .B.C.
price, every Friday afternoon. 233-2342. House for rent. Near campus, 3 P.S. 1know another secret but I'm savingbedroom, $200 a month. Grad students Bradley GT II-'78, 5100 miles, $6500. 
Dear Spic, that?
Why Pay More? FLANNER RECORDS preferred. Cit 234-7332. Call 283-6765 after 7 pm. 
Welcome back and congrats! Missed The Fan Club Is filling rapidly! Mallhas all $7.98 LP's for only $4.99. Flanner 
------you muchly. those memberships NOW! Include nameRecords, 603 Flanner. Phone 4256. For next school year, furnished four Need acorsage for the Farley or St. Ed'a love, the Mick from Minnesota and address.
Hours Monday-Thursday 4:()()-5:00, 6:30-bedroom house for rent close to Notre formal this weekend? 1have top quality
8:00. Why spend more off campus? Dame. m-3604. cymbidium an:hld corsages and am Tim &Steve 
Harvey Sprunger,
selling allow coat -shipped directly from 
Welcome back to you and your beauti­Sue Callahan, John Smith and J.P.
TYPING. IBM Selectric. Pickup and rooms for rent, $40.00 each. Fireplace, grower 10 selling for $4.001 Wide ful bronzed body. Samurai Pseudo-Max, Polnsatte were all competitors In last
delivery. 2n-o296. rides to school. 3blocks from golf course. selection of colo11. Call AHAB 8865. 
I need your help. year's An Tostal Road Rally. The flag
233-1329. Sept. or June. 
This message has been paid for by falls April 28.
Parents: USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun. 
Chat Reid's car parts.
Want a permanent Sat. night babysit: 9-7. Ralph Casperson, 1303 Buchanan Good luck PHIL CACKLEY in your career
tor? Grad student, $1 hr., negotiable, Road, Niles. 683-2888. 
Sean, In writing Ingredient labels for pickle
233-1329 

Wanted 
Blow It off! jars.
Scoop

Personals 
Sue,Lost&Found Mary, I dldn 't get screwed by 250 lbs. In a
Disco, Dlscol Dancing lessons being 
If you don't visit me for An Tostai, I purple press but I sure had the greatestLOST: One pair of brown-rimmed Need ride to Schenectady N.Y. for given now. Professional Instruction will feel severely rejected. But that's all time. Thanks a mlllln.
glasses In tan case. Grad students -If EASTER and ride to Bloomington some­taught to guys and gals. Group rates 
relght-1 always was Into Sado-Maso­Joeyour picked up four person's on way to time. Will share driving and expenses. available. Call 234-2862. 
chism.
Happy Hour Friday they may be In your Call CASEY 8421. 
Tim Oh Braless One:
back seat. Contact Tim 1205. Scoop: I met anew woman Saturday night, IfNeed ride to Rochester or Minneapolis for Take note of above. 
The Adventures of aBoring Pe110n you know what I'm saying. Thanks lorLOST: March 8 In Engr. Bldg. 1SR51 Easter. Share driving and expenses. 
[Chapter Thirteen] everything, Bay-beet
calculator. Reward offered. Call Ron at Don 8175. Don & Bill, 
It was at this point that the oversensi­52 Percent
3454. How was the morning after Devine's tive idiot, "godd friend", box-pounder,PLEASE HELP, Desperately need 3 Billy opening class? Kate wants a post card and person-hounder realized that total M.P.,
FOUND: One calculator behind Keenan. Joel tickets. Dan 8252. from Japan. 
honesty was Impossible... Long IIme no see.
Call 7007 to Identify. Music Maniacs!! 
Back to the drawing board, folks! Stay Medal1or 2bedroom furnished apartment from P.S. P. finally got the windshield clean. 
tuned for round two In this exciting bout.
Whoever swapped camel hair coats with May to August. Call 219-nB-3186 P.S.S. Kate wants to know when we're Score so far: Fool 0 -Life 1. Jack Cottone,
me Friday. March 9at Senior Bar please evenings. going to Tim's. 
(To be continued...) Does this satisfy your wishes for a
call Pat 41-4915. 

Marc Kelly, personal&Ride needed to anywhere In New England It's ok. I understand. Let's be friends. I am so tired of being tired all the time! 
LetchLOST: One orange road sign from 3A for Easter. Can leave Tuesday noon. Sue 

Susie Scoop
Farley. Reward for Information leading 7891. 
WALSH HALL,to Its recovery. Call 6804. 
BJK, HAPPY 70TH BIRTHDAY! YOU'RE
Need ride to Pittsburgh-Youngstown area The Pseudo-Dionyslus was a woman. There once were three girls from NOT GETTING OLDER" YOU'RE GET,
LOST: CANON Electonlc Camera flash. for Easter break. Can leave Wed. Will Walsh Hall 
At Nazz before break. Call 8417. share$. Call 41-4367. Vote: Who asked three young gents to their bali TING BETTE~IIIIIII Torres With dinner to eat, •~ 
Need passengers to Cincl, April 7. Call McCaughey and a post-formal treat ~ Judy 7227. Saccacio "A good time was had by all." ~
For Rent 
Need ride to Cincinnati afternoon of April For NDAA (how Ieite) TJJ r ~ ~
w.g,oc ' 
House For Rent: Summer and possibly 12. Call Jim 1553. Working together for YOU! /J next year· 4 bdrm. furnished, very close To 9th floor Grace, (J 
to campus. 289-171 8.$ $500.00 Par Weak possible as home What do Sua Callahan, John Smith and We loved "riding the storm out" with 
telephone receptionist lor national adver-J.P. Polnsatte have In common? you Sat. nile. 
I

Students: A 5 bedroom, 2baths available tlsing firm. No experience required-no "That's the way we like It!!" 
for 1979-1980. $..'l()() mo. Rent from June 1 obligaton. A.C.P.. Inc.. P.O. Drawer Let It be known that there is something Pam, Terl, susie, Mary Pat ..,.
0 23

LJ~~hriL~~~~~hL.s_um_m_e_r_$_1_50__ · __ • _m___ 2 --~-~-·----~~4~006~9,~D=a~lla=s~,T~X~7~5~21~4-------------u~n~ro~m~a-nt_ic_a_bo_u_tv_o_m_lt._____________________________________________________________ 

Tuesday, April 3, 1979-page 12
Snorts 

Have the Portland Trail Bla­
zers learned to win without Bill 
Walton? 

Two years ago Walton led the 
Blazers to their first National 
Basketball Association cham­
pionship. · .l..Rst year, injuries 
crippled the red-haired center 
late in the season and the 
Blazers made a quick exit 
during the playoffs. 

This season, with Walton on 
the sidelines, Portland strug­
gled along below .500 until_ ~he 
last month, when the addmon 
of rookie .Mychal. Thompson to 
the starting lineu_p helped the 
Blazers win 10 of their last 12 
~ames. With one week to go 
oefore the playoffs, Portland 
holds a 2 Y2 -game lead over 
surprising San Diego in the race 
for the final berth in post-sea­
son play. 

Three of the four division 
titles are also up for grabs in 
the final week of the regular 
season. At stake, besides the 
extra money that goes to each 
division winner, is one week's 
rest via a bye throl1gh the first 
round of the playoffs. 

Defending champion Wash­ington is the only team to have clinched a division race. The Bullets lead Philadelphia by ei~~t. games in_ the Atlantic Dtvtston and thetr 52-25 record is the best in the league. 
San Antonio leads Houston by 11h games in the Central Givision, with Atlanta 21/z games out. Kansas City ·holds a slender margin of one-half game over Denver in the Mid­west Division, while Seattle leads Phoenix by two games in the Pacific Division. 
The Eastern Conference playoff teams are Washington, San Antonio, Philadelphia, Houston, Atlanta and New]er­sey. 
Only Seattle and Phoenix are assured of playoff berths from the Western Conference, while Kansas City, Denver, Los An­~eles and Portland have the mside track for the other pla­ces. San Diego, despite ·being five games over .500, is 2lfz games behind Portland and Denver and three behind Los Angeles and Kansas City. 
Portland is in its best physi­cal shape of the year. Besides Walton, the only injured Blazer is guard Lionel Hollins, who has a minor knee injury. Forwards Maurice Lucas and Bobby Gross and guard Dave Twardzik are all back in action after early season injuries. 
"We'v.e finally got some people healthy,'' said Lucas, who had 30 points in the Blazers' 109-107 triumph over Cleveland Sunday, ."and we're playin~ much better now. The matunng of our young players has a lot to do with the way we're playing now." 
The Blazers' key young play­er has been Thompson, the 6-foot-10 rookie from Minneso­ta who was the first player chosen in the college draft. He opened the year as Portland's starting power forward because of an injury to Lucas, then was used as a reserve until Coach ] ack Ramsay decided to try him at Bobby Gross' small forward position alongside the 6-9 Lucas and 6-10 center Tom Owens. 
"Mychal is playing great basketball right now,'' said Ramsay. "By putting him at small forward we benefit in both directions. Offensively he gives us a force inside, and defensively he's such a good player he gives the best small forwards in the league trou­ble." 
Toohey plans 
benefit handball 

Fr. Bill Toohey has challenged any undergraduate to a best-of­three-games in handball, the loser to donate $50.00 to the Andy Sowder Memorial Fund. Challengers come to Campus 
Ministry office, 103 Memorial Library. 
Devine sees bright future 
ND opens spring football season 
by Mark Perry be c~mpeting as hard as they back position. Rusty Lisch, who 
Sports Editor can. sat out all of last year, will be 
Vagas Ferguson, the third returning, but he will have 
1000-yard rusher for the Irish in some competition for the start­
The coming of spring can the last three years, is the ing position. Tim Keogel, who have a variety of meanings for outstanding offensive player saw alot of relief action as last each individual. For some tt is coming back, and Tim Foley, year's number two QB, is also a a period of rebirth, where Tim Huffman, and Rob candidate, along with Mike nature brings life to a dull Martinovich return on the Courey and Greg Knafelc. 
world. For others a new love offensive line, along with "We hope to have the can add excitement. But for the flanker Pete Holohan and tight quarterback situation resolved 
true Notre Dame football fan it ends Dean Masztak, plus sev­in the spring," Devine said. can mean only one thing: the eral other players who have had "We don't have as much depth advent of spring football drills. some experience on the in that position as in past 
offense. year's, but we have some good
The 1979 edition of the 
Fighting Irish were scheduled On the defensive side, there quality players.'' to open their annual spring are several players who have The Irish will continue prac­practice sessions yesterday, but had some starting time over the tice for the rest of the month of 
spring has been a little late past few years. John Hankerd, April, and spring drills will 
coming to South Bend so the Bobby Leopold, Tom Gibbons, conclude with the annual Blue­team just held a light'workout and Dave W aymer are just Gold Game on May 5. inside the ACC. Irish Head some of the players who should "We have a good nucleus Coach Dan Devine said that he be heading the Irish defense in and a good incommg freshman was hopeful the team could the coming season. team with a lot of fine tnove outdoors today. The biggest replacement that athletes," Devine added. "We 
Spring practice is a ''dis­the Irish will have to make will have to be optimistic about the organized affair, ' ' according to be the all-important quarter-upcoming season.'' Devine. "Our major goals are to orientate the new players, stress and work on fundamen­tals, and prepare the players for 
Irish golfers take first 
the fall practice sesswn. '' 
Devine enters his fifth year at Notre Dame, a national champ­ionship, three bowl wins, and 
in 14-team tourney four winning seasons already under his belt. The upcoming A solid performance by Irish, shooting an even par 71 
season will be especially chal-. senior Tim Saurs and a birdie for the 18 hole course, which lenging, as the Irish face six on the final hole of' play by placed him second in the tourn­
teart).s who traveled to post­junior John Lundgren helped ament. season bowls last year · · lead the Notre Dame golf team Lundgren took :third with a (Michigan, Purdue, Georgia to a first place finish in the one over 72, and provided the Tech, USC, Navy, and 14-team Ball State Invitational, winning stroke for the lrish, as Clemson) along with good held at the Crestview Golf Club he sunk a birdie putt on the teams from Michigan State in Muncie, IN., yesterday. 18th hole after the Ball State 
and Tennessee. 
team had already finished their
The Irish had a combined
Notre Dame will be returning rounds.
score of 369, one stroke better
a strong nucleus of starters Other scorers for the Irish
than the host team, Ball State,
from last season on both the were Dave Knee, who took
and well ahead of third place
offensive and defensive squads. 
finisher Louisville, who had a seventh place with a score of 
Devine said that althou~h the 74, and Tim Sachek and Tom
score of 383.

team was not as deep as m past McCarthy, who both recorded years, "most of the players will Saurs had the top score for the five over par 76s. 
In N.L. East 
Too badPete Rose can't pitch 

Are Dave Parker and Pete Rose worth $5,000 per game (~ive or take a few hundred)? Do the Philadelphta Phillies have enough healthy 
Michael
pitchers to make it through a double header? Will the Montreal Expos be as talented on the field as they are on paper? Will the Chicago Ortman Cubs be in first place fong enough to set the stage for their 34th annual fold? For the Barry Foot, Ted Sizemore, and Jerry Martin. 
answers to these and other questions, stay Result: a weaker team. I've got some bad newstuned. The National League East's Super for the Phillies faithful -Pete Rose can't pitch.
Summer Spectacular is about to be~in. · 
Ruly Carpenter would have been much better off shellin~ out his free-agent dollars on the likes of 
Pirates 
Luis Ttant and Tommy ] ohn. The differencePittsburgh finished agame aridahalfbehind the between Rose and Hebner isn't as vast asPhillies last year and have imv.roved more Carpenter's checkbook makes it look. Just lookduring the off season than has Phtladelphia. A at their '78 stats · Rose : 7 homers, 52 RBI's,healthier Rennie Stennett, Dodger defectQr Lee .302 average, and Pete is 38. Hebner: 17Lacy, and fireman Enrique Romo (11 wins and homers, 71 RBI's, .283 average and Richie is 32.
10 saves in relief with Seattle last year) all will Philadelphia's starting eight are as good asimprove an already talented team. 
any in baseball, but the pitchmg is just too thin.
The offensive attack centers around Mr. 
The infielders (Rose, Trillo, Larry Bowa, andAll-world Dave Parker (missed 14 games in '78 Mike Schmidt) are outstanding, both with thebut still hit 30 homers, drove in 117 runs, and hit gloves and the bats, and the outfield trio of Greg.334). First baseman Willie Stargell might be 38 Luzinski, Garry Maddox, and Bake McBride is years old but he can still hit with the best. of equally solid. But they had better stay healthy them (28,97, a~d .295 in '78). J~ining_Parker in because there is nobody there to back them up. 
the outfield wtll be base stealing king Omar Philly's favorite, Bob Boone will be behind theMoreno (71) and Bill Robinson or John Milner. 
plate unless Steve Carlton is pitching. In thatThe Pirstes boast one of the most potent case, it will be ageless Tim McCarver doing thepitching staffs in the league. Bert Blyleven, 
catching.

John Candelaria, and Don Robinson will lead the The Philadelphia pitching staff is almost starters and Romo should help a much non-existent. fhe antique arms of Jim Kaat,overworked Kent Tekulve (31 saves and 8 wins Jim Lonborg, and Steve Carlton add up to 110in '78) in the bullpen. 
years in age. The rest of the staff is hurting. Larry Christienson is out until May with a
Phtflies 
broken collar bone, Dick Ruthven has a soreThe difference between this year's second elbow, and rookie hopeful Jim Wright broke his place finish and last season's division winner is arm throwing a pitch in practice. That leavesquite simple: add Manny Trillo, Nino Espinosa, 
[continued on page 11]
and, oh yes, Pete Rose; subtract Richie Hebner, 







