---~--------­
, , , Iranian crisis -page 6 

Security Council to meet on Iranian crisis 
VOL. XIV, NO. 56 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1979 
Court may decide today on abortion funding 

UNITED NATIONS (AP) -Sec­urity Council members agreed to meet on the U.S.-Iran crisis and the council president 'said the session probably would begin no later than · today despite an Iranian plea for a week's delay. 
Council President Sergio Pa­lacios de Vizzio of Bolovia told reporters he expected a meet­ing last night or today in response to Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim's urgent re­quest that the 15-member coun­cil convene on the issue. 
Waldheim took the unusual step_ of calling the meeting 

Thieves rip-off Sr. bar; more reports of 0-C thefts 
by Mark Rust News Editor 
Break-ins and thefts were reported yesterday by the Senior Bar managers and off-campus students in unrelated incidents over the weekend. It was the first such break-in this semester at Senior Bar, and the off-campus theft was just one more in wh~t appears to be a growing number of assaults, thefts and attempted thefts reported by St. Louis and Notre Dame Avenue residents in the last month and a half. 
Intruders apparently entered Senior Bar late Friday night and escaped with a stereo system and an undisclosed amount of cash. Clare Stack, business manager, was reluctant to disclose the thieve's method of entry, but she reported that they left through the front door after breaking the ins1de lock. 
The value of the stereo system -two speakers, turntable and receiver -could not immediately be determined, according to Stack. 
Security is continuing to investigate the break-in, the only reported instance of theft on campus over Thanks~iving break. 
Michael Segobiano and Bob Carey, of 714 St. Lou1s St., reported another Friday night theft in which intruders took an entire console stereo unit, a portable TV I radio, electric typewriter and two clock radios. According to Segobiano the thievesrifted throughdrawers and found one of the clock radios in the unpacked su1tcase of a housemate who had just arrived from vacation. 
For the residents of 714 St. Louis it was the second theft this year. During fall break thieves helped themselves to a calculator, a 35 mm camera, $250 worth of stereo equipment and a small amount of cash. Police still do not have a lead on either of the two thefts, al cording to Segobiano. ­
St. Louis Street and nearby Notre Dame Avenue have been the scene ofnumerous assaults and break-ins in the last month and a half, according to students living in the area. Those cnmt:!>~, and the gruwing tensions arising from them among reszdents zn the near north< ...st neighborhood area, will be the subject ofa two part series on offcampus crime appearing this week in The Observer. 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The Supreme Court said yesterday it may decide whether Congress can refuse to pay for most abortions wanted by women on welfare. 
Once again taking up one of the nation's most divisive legal and social topics, the court agreed to hear arguments over the constitutionality of the abor­tion-spending restriction. 
But the justices left them­selves an escape route. First they will have to decide they
the proper jurisdiction before ruling on the constitu­tional question. Arguments likely will be heard this winter and a decision announced sometime before the end of the court term in June. 
Attached to the budget for the Department of Health, Educa-
Sunday, saying the conflict over gerous atmosphere for the re­Iranian militants holding 49 gion and entire world.'' He American hostages in the U.S. said Iran wanted deposed Embassy in Tehran threatened Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi world peace. "and other members of his 
Iranian special envoy Saeed regime'' returned to Iran to Sanjabi told a news conference stand trial and that "the wealth the next few days are "of high stolem by these criminals'' be political and religious signifi­given back to Iran. cance'' in Iran and ''we have The shah is undergoing treat­requested postponement to the ment in a New York City next week of this meeting.'' hospital. 
"At that time our foreign Diplomats followin~ the pri­minister will be coming here to vate U.N. consultations said New York to participate in the earlier that the United States meeting of the council and to and Iran were working at cross explain the demands of ·our purposes. people," Sanjabi said. The informants, preferring · 
Abolhassan Bani Sadr, Iran's not to be identified, said U.S. acting foreign minister, had Ambassador Donald F. McHen­said Sunday he would fly to ry sought to have the council New York yesterday. But the meet soon and call for the country's revolutionary govern­hostages' release. ment announced hours later he They said Iranian Charge had postponed his trip for a D'Affaires Jamal Shemirani week because of Ashura, the asked that the meeting be put most important holiday for the 
[continued on page 6]
Shiite Moslem -sect, and the Dec. 2 referendum on Iran's new Islamic constitution. 
Although Palacios de Vizzio met before Sanjabi held his 

Psych Services analyze
news conference, he said he was aware Iran ''requested a postponement'' but the council would go ahead with its plans to 

student drinking habits 
hold a formal meeting. 

Sanjabi, reading from a pre­by Dan Letcher pared statement, noted Iran had asked on Nov. 13 that the A survey designed to analyze Security Council meet and was student drinking at Notre Dame "glad" that request had come will be conducted this week by to Waldheim's attention. The Student Government in con­United States had blocked junction with Psychological Iran's plea for a meeting, but Services of the Student Health then announced Sunday it Center, according to Dr. Wayne would support Waldheim's re­Pellegrini of Psych Services. quest, on grounds the session The questionnaire, which will would focus on a call for an be administered by section immediate release of the hosta­leaders, deals with the ''behav­ges. ioral" aspect of drinking ac­
Sanjabi said ''threats made cording to Pellegrini. How by the U.S. and its propaganda much alcohol, what kind of campaign have created a dan-alcohol and how often do you Various versions of it have been enacted for each fiscal year since then. 
The court will study the Hyde amendmem passed for fiscal year 1978, which bars Medicaid spending for abortions unless a woman's life would be endan­

gered by childbirth, in cases of promptly reported rape or in­cest, or when two doctors say childbirth would cause "severe and long-lasting physical health 
1 

damages to the mother.'' 
j

Congress earlier this month agreed on a new and more re­4 strictive spending ban for fiscal year 1979, eliminating the "se­vere and long-lasting physical 
I

health damages" exemption. 
A federal judge in Chicago last April struck down the spending restriction -both the Hyde 
1

amendment and the Illinois law patterned after it as unconstitu­tional. 
U.S. District Jud~e John Gra­dy ruled that Illinots must make Medicaid money available for all ''medically necessary'' abortions until a fetus reaches the point where it can survive outside the mother. 
Just when that viability occurs varies in individual cases. But it usually is sometime between the pregnancy's 20th and 30th weeks. 
In three separate appeals, ~he Carter admmistration, Illinois and two doctors representing the Americans United for Life Legal Defense Fund are urging the court to overturn Grady's ruling. 
"In forbidding the use of federal fund.s for any abortions other than those in certain limited categories, Congress was motivated by two legiti­mate concerns: the desire to encourage normal childbirth and to protect the potentiality of human life, and the desire to avoid spending tax revenues to support an activity that many taxpayers find morally repug­nant,'' Justice Department lawyers argued. 
The Supreme Court le~alized abortions in 1973, basmg its ruling on a woman's constitu­tional right to privacy. 
J 

drink are examples of questions asked. 
Pellegrini says that the survey ''also takes demographic vari­ables such as age, sex, and socio-economic status, and looks for significant associa­tions with parental alcohol use, high school peer group and college peer group use.'' An­other dimension studied is the individuals knowledge of al­cohol and its effects. 
Total anonymity is ~;sured every student aqd a numbering 
[continued on page 9] 


-....,_-_--::c___...,._..._-=---~~--­
~---~­
.---~--~~~--~~~~------------------~------~~~~-----------------------­
........ ----..... -----------------------------------­


News in brief 
Tuesday, November 27, 1979 -page2 
In Mosque takeover
Yugoslavian floods kill 
Saudis corner Moslent fanatics 
22, force scores to flee 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP) -diehards still were in the base­from southern Saudi Arabia, BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -Catastrophic floods killed at 
Soldiers have the last of the ment tunnels. who were one of the groups the least 22 people, injured dozens, and forced tens of thousands 
armed Moslem fanatics who He said the statement was in ruling Saud family defeated in to flee their homes in southwestern Yugoslavia this month, 
occupied Mecca's Grand response to questions about the establishing the kmgdom in the government officials said yesterday. Government spokesman 
Mosque cornered in the reasons for witholding official 1920s. Bo~lojub Nedeljkovic told Parliament some rivers crested at 
mosque's basement, the Saudi information about the Mecca The official Saudi news agency the1r highest level in 100 years between Nov. 10 and Nov. 21, 
information minister said yes­siege, which began at dawn last has said little about the bloody inundating 775,000 acres offarmland, damaging 353 bridges 
terday. Tuesday. 1 siege and non-Moslem repor­and 480 miles of roadway and disrupting rail service in the 
Government forces held off a He said security forces had ters are barred from the city. srares of Montenegro, Bosnia, Serbia, Kosovo and Macedo­
final assault in order to catch maintained a tight ring around Only Moslems are allowed to 
the holdouts alive and prevent the hugh mosque since its visit the holy city of Mecca. 
· further damage to the mosque takeover by the armed attackers Islam's holiest place, Moham~ and wanted to overrun it, but mad Abdo Yam;mi said in a "rhey also were keen on carry­
nia. 
Police tell four to freeze, 
statement broadcast by Riyadh ing out King Khaled's orders to 
radio. protect the lives of Moslems,'' 
ND-SMC 
He said the upper floors of the he said referring to hostages
make them lie in snow 
huge edifice and its seven held by the gunmen. 
steeples were in control of "The truth is this made the 
Theatre
AUROKA, Colo. (AP) -When Calvin Walker looked out his 
security forces. operar ion difficult becauseof"" wi~1dow. he saw "_cops everywhere with guns pointed ar the Yamani did not say how many th" status of the mosque, whichhoust". lr was like I robbed the First National Bank," said is like a reinforced fortress witb \XIalker after police ordered him, his wife-at~td two fritods its huge structure and mina­
nafues cast
ordered outside and told them to lie in the show then 
rets," he added.

9uc·s1iont"d rhe four about a convenience store r~bbery 
Applicants 

''The security forces gradually Sunda\. Ir was a case of m1sraken identity, police said. Police tightened the ring, then over­The cast has been named forSgt. Montey Landers said one of the rwo suspects in the ran some of the gates. They ''The Heiress,'' the latest Notre robhen fled from a pickup truck near Walker's house. The drove the gunmen out of their Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre
don't need

n1hc·r was arrested in the truck. Minutes later \XIalker's rwo positions in the minarets, the Production, with the lead rolesfriends . arrived: ~nd one of them marched the missing upper and lower floors and going to Cathy Hurst as Cather­
•

suspect s descnpuon and was sported through a window, vantage points," he added. Ine, John Davenport as Dr.
to wr1te

Landers sa1d. 
The $100 million dollar Sloper, and Jim O'Brien as For those interested in a mosque, built by the Saudi Morris Townsend. royal family' in the 1950s, ''.The Heiress,'' a dramatic
career with the Federal Govern­
Hoosier-. Kentucky river 
ment, Social Security now has stands atop of the ruins of adaptation of the Henry James its own recruiting system which 
uncuunted temples that have novel, "Washington Square," does not reqUire a written been built around the sacred will be performed at 8 p.m.
dispute afloat in turmoil 
ex.amination. Instead an in­Kaaba. Passageways from Nov. 30 and Dec. 1, 6, 7, and 8, terested person can complete those ruins form a maze of in Saint Mary's College l~DIAN~POLI? (AP)-A U.S. Supreme Court hearing officer 
an application listing his or her runnels under the present O'Laughlin Auditorium. For 
tickets call 284-4176.
qualifications, work experience, mosque.
s1ded with Ind1ana yesterday in its boundary dispute with and education. During 1980, The Kaaba is a 50-foot cubic The cast also includes TheresaKentucky bur the final decision rests with the nation's 
highest court. Senior U.S. District Judge Robert Van Pelt 
Social Security will need more stone strucrure which Moslem Rebeck, Christine_ Foy,l Anne recommended that the boundary between the rwo states be 
than 1,000 persons to fill Claims tradition says was built by the Patterson, Brian Wolfe, Kate Representative positions prophet Abraham and his son Goerner and Lisa Jaquez.
fixt"d ar "the low water mark on the north side of the Ohio nationwide. Many of these Ishmael. A black meteorite, Kathy Labarge is stage man­River as ir existed in 1792, when Kentucky was admitted into positiOns will require U.S. revered as a sign from God, is a~er and Brian Wolfe is tech­tht" Union." Th~ recommenda.tion came in a report prepared citizens with a good knowledge imbedded in a silver collar on meal director. Professor Fred­b,-Van Pelt. a Lmcoln, Neb., Judge, for the Supreme Court. 
Kentucky had argued that the boundary should be fixed at of Spanish as well as English. the eastern edge of the Kaaba. eric Syburg, who has been with 
The Claims Representative Diplomats identified the in­the Notre Dame-Saint Mary'sr~e l~l~-w_ar~r r:nark as ir exists today, a move which would surgents as members of the Theatre for 26 years, is direct­
career begins at he GS-5 level (approximately $11,000 a year) ultra-conservative Oteiba tribe ing the production.
g1vt" 11 JunsdJc_non over more of the river. The Supreme Court has rhe opt~on of accepting or rejecting Van Pelt's recommendations. and could order further hearings in the 
and advances to the GS-10 level cast". 
(projected for approximately $21,000 a year). If you are interested in service to the public and a solid career 

XII OLYMPIC
Weather 
with promotional opportunities, 
contact the Placement Bureau, 
OFFICIAL
Room 213, Administration the· afrnr10o1_1. High n~·ar 40. Light snow likely tonight,.•(fow 
l{am likc·k rhis morning and becoming mixed with snow in 
Building before, December 3, 

OLYMPIC
1979 and ask for 'details on the ;o,. 
;mound Hl. Snow flurnes and cold tomorrow. High in rhe low "CRESS project". 
T·SHIRTS 
11.

Join the Lake Placid 
ORDER YOUR

Winter Olympics OLYMPIC T -SHIRT NOW WITH
• Great Christmas Gifts 
~COLOR OLYMPIC
f--The Observer_ 

• Get your Grandmother one tOGO 
TWIN RIVER ENTERPRISES
Ntght Editor: Jim Rudd

CamP-_us_ ____, 
RIVER ROAD
Asst. Night Editor: Cindy 

LAKE PLACID N Y l;o<J.It; QUANTITY S~ 9'o e.t 
Kliros, Bill Keenan, Ryan 
SIZE AND 

PLUS 7Sc HANDLING
"nodoz" Ver Berkmoes 

QUANTITY SM MED L XL
12:1) p.m. /asters mass: spon. by world hunger coa·Iition; 
Copy Editor: Tom Jackman 
TOTAL ENCLOSED --­

dtl/r,, cb..lf't'l 
News Editor: Mark Rust 

~~~LL;REN~~==~==~'==~1=:=::1
Sports Layout: Paul B. Mul­

4·;o p rn hmlogr seminar,· ''rhe interferons,'' dr. gary r. 
NAME _____________
laneyhmlc·.....n. ncl spon. b~· dep1. of biology. galvin aud. 

ADDRESS ______________________________________
_'·)ports Copy Editor: Jeff 
Po wanda 
ZIP

b:)O p.m. meetinf!,: alpha phi omega service grarernity, 
Typists: Beth Huffman, Kate

arrc·nchrr11 c· mandaron· lalorttme theatre 
Huffman, Mary Beth Budd, 
Amy Peczkowski7 p.111 ntc'eltnY,; .Junior Advisory Council, Zahm basement 

EMT: S. Paul Selavko 
Proofreader: Mark Rust 
TUESDAY

7 p. 111 meetinY,: college bowl team captains, caron court, 
ND Day Editor: Mark Kelley

I t/;,,.ltlflc' 
SMC Day Editor: Peggy 

November 27,1979
Schneeman7& Io p.m !fWI'ie; we<.r side story. admission $1. k of c hall 

Ad Destgn: Flo O'Connell 
Photographer: Greg Maurer

l ;u& I 0 p rn. mm•ie: stagecoach. admission free, hu(y cross 
IIJ/l 
The Observer [USPS B 9211] Is X I'. 111. lature; den is goulet, spon. by college of arrs & letters 
published Monday through Frtday ••­

Molson
cept during exam and vacatlln perieds.

c•.-_{:lflc'c'TlfiY, uud. 
The Observer is published by the students of Notre 011111 and Saint

·5 p.n1 lecture: "hunry sidgwick: the professionalization of 
Mary's Cllllgl. Sublcrtptillla lillY Ill 

•n.,ral (·ono.,c iousness." david solomon. nd, spon. l>y 
purchased lor $211 per yur IS11 p1r phJi.,..,oph~· dep1. & college of arts and letters library aud. 
llfl'llllarllrom The Observer. P.O. blx 

olden AI
a. Nitre Dama.lndlana 41556. s-et 
class ~e paid, Nltrl Dame, In-

H p.rn. lt.:c/ure: "marriage, bond or bondage?" rev. john 
diana . finn<'gan. WC'ston school of tht"ology, cambridge mass. spon. 
The Observer ir a mamlllr Ill till Autciatld PI'ISI. All iiP'Idlctllll 

1-1o 2/$1.0010-375~ each
ll\ 1heologv dep1. galvin aud. 
rights lrt mtrYid' 

---~~---~-------~-------~----------. 
The Observer Tuesday, November 27, 1979 -page 3 
Demand cools; lending 
rate 
drops 
NEW YORK (AP) -Some major banks cut their prime lending rates yesterday to 15% percent, responding to lower costs for acquiring funds and to cooling of demand by businesses for loans. 
Bankers Trust Co. of New York, the nation's eighth-lar­gest bank ranked by deposits, reduced its basic lending rate from a record 15 3f4 percent. It was the first reduction in the prime since the key rate began rising sharply last August. 
No. 11 Wells Fargo Bank, based in San Franscisco, quick­ly joined in the quarter-point reduction, as did several smal­ler regional banks. 
Banking industry analysts said they expected other major banks to join the move to lower primes rates. 
Bankers Trust Chairman AI­fred Brittain III said the reduc­tion "reflects a decline in our own cost of funds." 
Banking analysts said recent reports from the Federal Re­serve indicated a slowing in the growth of the nation's basic money supply and a decline in corporations' demand for cre­dit. 
The Federal Reserve Board has acted to make credit more costly in order to slow down a rapid growth in the money supply. Too rapid an expansion of the money supply is believed to aggravate inflation by put­ting more money into circula­tion than can be absorbed by the economy's output of goods and services. 
The encouraging money sup­ply figures indicate the Fed may be able to cease tighten­ing, or even ease, credit pcoli­

T/Je Carry Bell's Blues Bandfeaturing Lurrie Bell wz/1 be performing at the Midwest Blues F,'sliz•al th1s weekend. 
Guitars to twang 
ND Arts presents blues festival 
by Ann Hesburgh 
Notre Dame's Cultural Arts Commission presents the twang of the guitar, the wail of the harmomca, and the tinkle of the ivories in its 8th annual fall Midwest Blues Festival this weekend. 
The "Blues from the Bayou" can be heard in Stepan Center at 8 p.m. Friday Nov. 30 and the "Chicago Blues" at 7:15 
p.m. Saturday Dec. 1. The festival will include such blues originals as Roosevelt Sykes, ''Professor Longhair and His 
Blues  Scholars,"  and  Lonie  
Brooks.  
''The  reason  for  the  Blues  

Festival,'' Director Michael Wood commented, "is to pro­vide for the students as well as the South Bend community, the opportunity to join in an important American celebra­tion. I believe that the seven shows in all will be very representative of what the blues are all about." 
Festival tickets can be pur­chased at the door and will vary in price according to the night of performance and purchaser's status. Student admission is $5 Friday night, $6 Saturday night, or $8 for both nights. Non-student admission prices arc slightly higher, selling for $6 Friday night, $7 Saturday night, or $10 for both evening performary::es. 
The Festival is the "best kept secret on campus," Cultural -~!lst=<Wnmissioner David Elli­son said. ''Those who have 
attended  the  Festival  in  the  
past  have  never  left  disap­ 
pointed."  

Despite the recent cuts in the Cultural Arts Commission's ;il­loted funds, "the Festival will take place as usual," Wood said. He has devised several methods of acquiring additional monies that will "hopefully help to offset our operating cost of $2,500." This year both the T-shirt and concession sales will be run by Notre Dame students rather than private comp<ulies as in the past. 
The Festival will be casual and those desiring to bring blankets and bean-bag chairs are wel­come. Approximately 100-150 chairs will be available for those who desire them. ''Althou~h not well known,'' Publicity Chairman Tom May com­mented, "it's going to be a hell of a show." 
The "Honeydripper," Roose­velt Sykes, who has played in both U.S. and European Festi­vals, will be Friday night's first performer. According ~o the Cultural Arts CommissiOn, "he is unquestionably the gre!ltest living barrelhouse blues piano player and one of the most prolific bluesmen ever.'' This will be Sykes' second Festival appearance and his 50th year as a Blues performer. 
The Festival will close with Big Joe Williams, playing the unorthodox nine-string guitar, and the performance of Carey Bell's Blues Band featuring Lurrie ~ell. As paraphrased by Chuck Berry: ''The joint will be jumpin', goin round and round.'' 
StUdents 
to donate 
clothes 

All students are urged to participate in a clothing drive that is being sponsored by Volunteer Services after Thanksgiving, from November 26 to 30. 
Winter clothes, boots, towels and linens are much needed for the refugees that have settled in the South Bend area. Any unwanted items of clothing brought back from Thanksgiv­ing break can b~ placed in the depositories in your hall. 
Your help is greatly appreci­ated. 
cies that have drven money market interest rates to record highs. 
Larry Kudlow, analyst with Bear, Stearns &Co., said in­terest rates on short-term sources of lendable funds were dropping rapidly and there were signs of a general econo­mic decline. For these reasons, he expected lower prime rates to spread throughout the indus­try, perhaps by the end of the week . 
''This is the the beginning of a trend to lower prime rates," Kudlow said. 
The prime is the rate charged by banks to their most credit­worthy corporate customers. Other commercial and indus­trial borrowers pay higher rates for loans. 
The rate stood at 11 3f4 percent fro most of 1979, with some banks dropping to 11 112 percent briefly, until mid-August, when it tied the old record of 12 percent set during the 1974 credit crunch. 
After the Federal Reserve tightened credit on Oct. 6, the prime soared from 13 'h percent to IP/4 percent on Nov. 16. 
The prime rate does not directly affect consumer loan rates, which are controlled by laws in many states, but it. is · 
, widely followed as an indication of credit conditions generally. 
SMC . plans final dress rehearsal 
The final dress rehearsal of Saint Mary's eighth annual Madrigal Dinners will be held tonight in Regina Hall. All members of the Saint Mary's­Notre Dame community are invited tf' attend, free of char~e, ri-.is rehearsal which will tnclude everything but the dinner. Seating is limited for the rehearsal which will begin at 8:.30 p.m . 



..w. Kentucky 
Tickets 

300 tickets for Ken-ND b-ball game on Dec. 29 in Louisville's Freedom Hall go on sale Wed. Nov. 28, 7:00pm. 
First come, first serve basis No line may form before 5:00pm on the 28th 
Only 1 tiCket per person Student must present I.D. Tickets $5.25 each 


StUd Unio1'1 Ticket Office
2~e~tt 

na floor LaFortune 
Student Union Record Sale 
list 7.98--+5.10 8.98--+5.70 available at Student Union Ticket Office Mon-Wed 12:15-4:00 
Select titles from Columbia/Epic at $3.99 including 
Dan Fogelberg Santana Billy·']oel Loggins & Messina 
Now Available Cut-out LP's from $1.29 
SALE Fleetwood Mac Tusk $8.99 Eagles Long Run $5.50 Stevie Wonder Secret L · $8.30 



--. ::---:--:--:-"";''::" -::-. -.-;;--_......-;.-.-.:--.-.-;:-.-:--.-.--.-.-.-­

r---~----~------------------------------------------------------------~---------~~· 
---· 

The Observer Tuesday, November 27, 1979 -page 4 
OBUD answers 
•
questtons 
by Michael Mader 
"What's for dinner?" and "What's going on tonight on campus?" are the most fre­quent questions asked of the Ombudsmanservices, a volun­teer group made up of 120 students. 
OEiUD is primarily concerned with gathering information a­bour campus happenin~s and relaying that information to stud~nt~ by way of their phone servrce. 
Among ·other things, OBUD also holds the student b.ody and class elections each year and prints a resource manual con· raining information on every group concerned with the Uni­versity. OBUD also runs Opera­tion Brainstorm, an effort to gerber ideas on bertering the University, which in the past has resulted in the hair stylist on campus and trash cans on the quads. 
Recently they distributed the University phone books in each dorm on campus. In the event that anyone missed their copy, or if anyone at all would like to have one, heI she is encouraged to go to the Student Govern­ment office and pick one up. 
The hours of operation of the Ombudsman telephone service are: Monday-Thursday, 10 a.m. to 12 midnight, Friday, 10 a.m. to') p.m. and Sunday, 12 noon to 12 midnight. OBUD is closed on Saturday. The phone num­ber for the service is 6283 (OBUD). 
~. -HIT-.,..-Hf\1~~~ ... 
::~ 
•UUfiHOi3f"'4M)~..'To ..
04"7J:I,p'J.0(Jp

IS cutOOt . ..-lOAf~ 
'Signalld~_, ._. ---~.. I(J thelet 
---_____~ _ _ terbelOw. 
Dear Mom and Dad, 
How are you? I'm fine, and the doctor says I'll feel even better when I get a few days' rest and a couple of home-cooked meals. But with the condition of my wallet, it looks like I'll have to hitchhike home for the holidays. with 
My roommate just made plans to go home Greyhound and says Greyhound is a great way to fight inflation because their fares are 
so reasonable. 
Greyhound even makes it possible for someone to prepay a ticket in one place so someone at another place can just pick up the ticket and h 
come home. You can even send along a small cas advance with the ticket. Greyhound will take care of everything for just a small fee. Boy -is my 
roommate lucky. f th t 
. . Well I have to run to pick up some more o a expen~ive medicine. I miss you all very much and hope to be home next weekend. 


Love and kisses, 
WSNDAM 
awards 'Au 
Bowl' prize 
Campus radio station WSND AM yesterday awarded $400 to Fred Gerngross of 304 Carroll in its recently concluded "WSND Bids You Au Bowl" contest. Students could enter simply by calling in a request 
. and then calling again when it 'faS played, and Gerngross' winning request was Todd Rund~ren 's '') ust One Vic­tory.' The station also a­warded $700 in daily prizes and received 737 requests from students entering the contest. Students who won daily prizes are asked to pick them up
With Thanksgiving now over, students fall back into dazly routi'!es for the last month ofthe 
between 3 and 5 p.m. before 
semester [photo by Greg Maurer). Dec. 3. 
One year later 

San Franciscans remember murders 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) Dianne Feinstein won't sit in the chair where George Mas­cone was shot. Anne Kronen­berg gets'depressed the 27th of every month. And everyone remembers. 
They remember the day this 
lovely city turned ugly. The day 
. gunfire rang beneath the rotun­
. da. The day a mayor and a 
supervisor died. 

It was a year ago that Dan White, freckle-faced former fireman and police officer, walked into Mayor Moscone's City Hall office and shot him because he wouldn't give White his supervisor's job back. It's been a year since White reload­ed his gun, ran down the hall and shot Supervisor Harvey Milk because he smirked. 
For this city, still reeling then from the horror of the deaths of its own in faraway Jonestown, Guyana, the assassinations of its mayor and its first avowed homosexual official last Nov. 27 were almost more than could be borne. Now the pain has eased. State Assemblyman Willie Brown perhaps George Mas­cone's closest friend, says it is impossible to scar the ciry. San Francisco is too resilient, he says, too full of life to be obsessed, even with the death of loved ones. 
Perhaps he's right. As one sits in the mayor's office, the place Moscone loved so well, talking to his successor, music wafts through the window ­gaiety from the same plaza where thousands gathered to mourn Moscone and Milk and six months later came to rage against White and the justice he received. 

"Only time eases the blow," says Dianne Feinstein, whom fate made mayor and who now campaigns to win the office in her own ri~ht. "There are constant remmders -every time I walk in the back office, for example. I don't sit in the chair Mayor Moscone was in. 
''The memories are all around, as well they should be. They were men of such enor­mous personal humor and good will.'' 
The politics of George Mas­cone and Harvey Milk have receded from the mind's eye, but the memory of the men lingers. 
''The movement has felt Harvey's loss this year," says Anne Kronenberg, Milk's ad­ministrative assistant. "And it's felt George's. Th~y wc:re two liberal forces lost at once and no one has really replaced them. 
''But the thing that really gets me is not being able to share things with Harvey, to have him here to talk to. I see flashes of Harvey all the time. The 27th of every month is very difficult for me." 
For Frank Falzon, a homi­cide detective who considered Dan White a friend, the hard part is second-guessing · by others' and by himself. 
It was his seemingly sympa­thetic interrogation of White that became the turning point of White's trial, helping per­suade a/·ury that White was not a cold-b ooded killer, but a good guy gone wrong. 
"I remember everything that day vividly, every second is quite clear," Falzon says. "I've gone over it in mr. mind many times, wondering tfl could have done anything differently. 
''There was absolutely noth­ing I could change. I didn't have all the answers when I spoke to Dan White to do a complete, 100 percent job. I wish I had, but that's Monday morning quarterbacking." 
There's been a lot of that since the May 21 verdict, which found White guilty of voluntary 
manslaughter, and the gay riot 
it provoked. 
But the man whose court­
room skill kept White from a· 
murder conviction has no 
doubts. 
"I feel to this day that I just 
did a job for him like I'd do if 
Harvey Milk had shot and killed 
the other two fellows. I'd have 
done •the same thing for him 
and been just as satisfied with 
the outcome . . . ,'' says Doug 
Schmidt, White's attorney. 
''There was substance to our 
defense and I don't feel respon­
sible f~~ what happened after­
wards. 
Schmidt's client was sentenc­
ed to seven years and eight 
months in prison. He is now at 
Soledad, living in a six-by-nine­
foot cell away from the prison 
population and waiting for free­
dom -perhaps as early as 1984 
and no later than 1986. 
His wife, who wept when her 
husband's life was spared, does 
her waiting among a small 
circle offriends and family. She 
lives with her toddler son, 
Andrew, in the same Ingleside 
house the couple shared before 
the killings. She teaches kinder· 
garten part-time and visits her 
husband regularly. 
"MaryAnn'~adjusted so well it's scary." says a friend, who asked not to be identified. ''The family is treatin~ his being away like a hitch rn the Army. They seem to deny the magni­tude of the crime · it's almost like he hit a dog.·' 
There is no waiting for those who loved the men White shot. Instead they think about what was, what might have been ­and what is. ''A lot of people want the world to go back the way it was before Harvey's death," says Harry Britt, Milk's successor on the Board of Supervisors. "The world never goes back the way it was. We can't recreate the world before the assassinations but we can create a San Francisco that reflects the real­ity of now. "Harvey had a desire for immortality, a Jewish immort­ality, that the rdeas he shared with his close friends would not die out," says Britt, recalling Milk's efforts for homosexual rights and to organize the national gay march on Wash­ington on Oct. 14. "And that worked. The ideas that were in Harvey Milk's head will not die out.'' 
The Observer 

working [photo by Tim McKeogh]. 
Rape A UJareness alerts UJornen 
by Paul Mullaney 
In an attempt to alert Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women to the realistic possibility and consequential danger of rape, the Ra~;>e Awareness Program is informtng students on both campuses how to be ready and react to assault situations. 
Susan Tamborini, residence director of Holy Cross Hall at Saint Mary's, is coordinator of the program which took root last year. She is being assisted by Kathleen Kearney. assistant rector of Farley Hall, and together they aim at communi­cating with the female stu­dents. 
''Our main goal is to make the students more security-minded,'' said Tamborini. "When a student walks on either campus, she must be aware and concerned with tak­ing care of herself. 
"Students have to realize that rape does indeed happen, and we try to help make them aware of this.'' 
The program emphasizes the problem of rape through dis­cussions, question-and-answer sessions and lectures by outside authorities. 
"We've had members of the Sex Offense Staff, a community agency, come and lecture on the topic," said Tamborini. "We've also had doctors and nurses from St. Joseph's Hos­pital speak on the required treatment of a rape victim." 
"Also, we've had a rape victim speak on the terribly emotional aspect of being as­saulted. She pointed out the real feeling of rape --with emphasis placed on the need of 
SMCsponsors spring trip to New York City 
by Melissa C. Cipkala 
Saint Mary's Counseling and Career Development Center is sponsoring '·campus/New York," a six day trip during spring break to New York City. The program is open to all SMC Notre Dame students regardless of their major or vear. Tony Campbell, assistant director of the Counseling and Career Development Center, will be supervising ~he activi­ties. Any interested student who wishes to learn more about the upcoming trip is asked to attend a meeting on Thursday at 6 p.m. in the Student Affairs Conference Room in the lobby of LeMans Hall. 
Campus/New York. will con­centrate on two maJor career fields, business and theater. Those interested in the busi­ness opfortunities have a wide range o meetings and activities to attend. Top executives of several national and multi­national corporations, speaking on retailing communicatio~, finance, and other topics, will assume the role of instructors during the visit. 
Officers and staff members will speak informally and answer qt'"'stions about their work, businesses, and job op­portunities for the future. The participants will also take guide'd' todrs..of the Wali"-Street Stock Exchange and the Feder­al Reserve Bank of New York. One afternoon will be left open for the students to spend as they wish; they may arrange interviews for themselves during this time. 
The trip will offer unusual opportunities to observe busi­ness from the inside and to learn about company training programs. The fee for business participants includes their six day-five night stay at the Cen­tury Paramount Hotel which is within walking distance of both Broadway and the subway, and tickets to two Broadway shows. Two of their evenings are left free. 
Theater participants will follow a program which pro­vides the opportunity to attend a variety of performances, such as dance, ballet, and opera, followed by seminars with lead­ing performers and authorities. Film screenings, studio tours, and rehearsals are. also part of this agenda. 
Included ~ their fee is all of the above, plus their six day­five night stay in the Paramount Century Hotel and tick:ts for four Broadway shows. Both groups have the option of touring Chinatown for a mini­ma:! fee which includes dinner. 
support from friends.'' 
Tamborini noted that the rec­tors' assistants and students on the respective residence hall fi.Qors are offered the program's exposure at Saint Mary's, while the rectors and their assistants at Notre Dame take part in the program, and are expected to reach the individual students on each floor. 
"We don't teach self-defense methods," said Tamborini. "If we trained someone to do something in self-defense, it might not work. It's more of a preventative program. We talk about the problem at the beginning of the year, and remind them of it throughout the year." 
Rape assault information cards have also been distri­buted on the Saint Mary's campus to help students react to rape if it does occur. ''The cards are the size of a credit card,'' said Tamborini. ''They let you know what to do in case of assault and rape -­like notifying the proper author­ities and hospital, etc." 
"This should help students· become aware of the serious­ness of rape. '' 
A joint committee betweetf'the two schools has been drafted to help resolve local rape prob­lems as best as possible. Co­ordinated by Dean of Students James Roemer. the committee is in search of methods to make both campuses safer fot wo­men. Both Tamborini and Kearney, ' as well as other concerned representatives from each s_chool, are serving em the committee. 
KofC to accept nommattons 
Nominations for office posi­tions in the Knights of Colum­bus are now being accepted by Grand Knight Tom Leibowitz and Secretary Roman Macia. Although nominations may be submitted until election day, Dec. 5, it is urged that all those who wish to run turn in their nominations early so they can be reviewed by the election committee prior to voting., For more information contact Lei­bowitz at 8203 or Macia at 3746. 
Tuesday, November 27, 1979-page 5 
Israeli leaders reconsider Mayor Shakaa's expulsion 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Israeli spokesmen, signaling a shift in attitude, said yesterday the government would reconsider the expulsion of Nablus Mayor Bassam Shakaa in exchange for a statement by him against terrorism and his voluntary resignation from office. 
A military review board which was to hear Shakaa's appeal against the expulsion order postponed its meeting for the second time to allow quiet contacts to continue. 
Israeli sources said con­sultations among Prime Minis­ter Menachem Begin's Cabinet on Sunday produced an agree­ment to explore the feelers put out by Arab mayors on Sha­kaa's behalf. · 
It was still unclear if a com­promise could be reached bet­ween the government's ·insist­ence that Shakaa be deposed as mayor and Shakaa's refusal to step aside, s~'Ui'ce; said. 
Shakaa was arrested Nov. 11 pending deportation following a discussiOn he held with a top army officer in which he alleg­edly condoned Arab terrorism. Shakaa said he was misquoted and that he opposes violence, although he blames Israel's 13­year occupation for the on-go­mg strife. 
Two previous attempts failed to persuade the government to drop the deportaton proceed­ings. Begin also received appeals for Shakaa' s release from the U.S. State Department and the United Nations General Assembly. 
A suggeston from some Arab mayors that Shakaa might quit apparently broke the ice in government thinking, Israeli sources indicated. But the mayors insist that Shakaa be reinstated. 
"We think that sould he resign voluntarily, there may be grounds for changing the situa­tion," said Cabinet Secretary Aryeh Naor. 
Elias Freij, mayor of Bethle­hem, said the mayors were seeking a compromise, but he refused to divulge details. Th~ state radio suggested that Sha­kaa might resign as mayor, but continue on the city council and remain active politically. 
Both sides apreared anxious for a solution that would prompt the West Bank's 25 mayors to retract their collective resigna­tions and to return normalcy to the West Bank. 
Dr. Solomon~'; 
to lecture tonight 
Dr. David Solomon, associate professor of philosophy at the University, will discuss "Henry Sidgwick: The Professionaliza­tion of Moral Consciousness'' in a public lecture tonight, at 8 
p.m. in the Memorial Library lounge. 
Solomon's lecture is the last of a series entitled, ''Evolution­ary Images of Humanity,'' which · has explored selected works in politics, literature, art and science in the 19th century. 
The series is sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters and the Department of Philosophy and supported by a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanitites. 

ROCKIN YOU FROM THE TOWER 7am-lam Daily 
Also, Taking, and Playing Your Requests All Day Long at #6400. So Listen to, Notre Dame's Student Rock, AM 64. WSND. 
if\nigl}ts nf Qtnlumbus 
presents 
WEST SIDE STORY 
Winner of 1 0 Academy Awards 
Cast: Natalie Wood, Richard Beymer, 

Rita Moreno, George Chakiris, 
Russ Tamblyn 
Awards: Academy Awards; Best Picture, Best Direction, Best Supporting Actor (George Chakiris), Best Supporting Actress (Rita Moreno), Best Cinematography (color), Best Art Direction (color), Best Sound, Best Scoring (musical), Best Film Editing, 
Best Costume Design (co\or) 
Tuesday, VVednesJay Nov 27, 28 7.:00 and 1O.:OOpm· K of C Hall Admission $1.00 Members FREE 
The Observer Tuesday, November 27, 1979 -page 6 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­
the world and by Carter's rivals the salutary effect of driving erage and more options in dent Carter has taken a calcu­in the presidential campaign, home to Iran's leaders the seeking that end. 
lated risk by agreeing to a U.N. 
who are already arguing that extent of thtir isolation in the Should the :iidministration de­Carter takes Securiry Council meeting on ,the his leadership is not forceful or world community. cide at some point to try to use 
situation in Iran. firm. It could also give them a economic sanctions against
By agreeing to the session, Should the U.N. session not chance to vent their anger and Iran, it would have the OJ?tion of 
Carter 1;:, allowing Iran to send bear fruit, rhe president will their grievances before the asking the United Nauons to
calculated its representatives to New York have to explain why he allowed world, something they have impose them, as it did in the 
and argue in the world's grand­it. indicated they want by giving case of Rhodesia. 
est forum that the Unites States But the risk carries potential frequent interviews to the med­Should the administration de­
and the shah are at fault, not benefits, according to State ia gathered in Tehran. cide at some point that military
the government in Tehran, Department officials. There is no guarantee that a action is required, it would have 
which allows a student mob to They are certain, they say, U.N. resolution condemning the resolution as evidence that
risk, agrees 
hold 49 American diplomats that all 15 Security Council Iran would lead to the hostages' it had tried in good faith to 
hostage. members will support a strong release. But it would give the solve the problem by peaceful 
Only a week ago, the Carter resolution calling on Iran to Carter administration more lev-means. 
administration was refusing to release the hostages before
to meet allow such a meeting . The th~re can be a hearing into its 
United States successfully op­gnevances.
posed a U.N. session requested The Americans also say they
by Iran, saying that the hosta­can keep the session tightly Radiologist travels here 
ges must be released first. focused on the taking of the
UN Council The change in the American hostages, that Iran will be "like position is likely to be interpret­a prisoner in the dock" when it 
to remove Shah's gallstones 
ed as a concession -both by states its case. 
Iran's few supporters around Such an outcome could have NEW YORK (AP) -A promi­soonest the stone should be 
nent radiologist is traveling removed was tomorrow. 
from Canada to remove a Other doctors familiar with the 
gallstone from the deposed procedure have said the Shah 
Shah of Iran in the next few should be able to travel and 
days, medical sources said last could leave the United States 
night. once the gallstone is removed, 
Dr. H. Joachim Burhenne was provided there are no complica­
TEHRAN, Iran (AP)-Ayatol­ed. worried after a brief visit with to arrive here last night after a tions. 
lah Ruhollah Khomeini raged The embassy has become a 20 of them on Sunday. flight from Vancouver, B.C., The gallstone was left in the 
against the United Staes yester­place of pilgnmage for thou­The congressman, here on a where he heads the department Shah's body after surgery to 
day and told his followers all sands of devout Moslems who personal mission to solve the of radiology at Vancouver Ge­remove his gallbladder and 
Iranians must learn to handle travel there from all over Iran to stalemate, does not have the neral Hospital. other gallstones on Oct. 24. He 
weapons, drop their divisive denounce "infidel America" in Carter administration's approv­Burhenne was a pioneer of the is also being treated for cancer. 
arguments and unite with all response to the appeals of al, and White House press special non-surgical technique Militant students holding 49 
their might against America or Khomeini and other religious secretary Jody Powell said which will be used to try to Americans hostage in the U.S. 
"we will disappear for good." leaders. , yesterday that H~nsen's indep­remove the gallstone from Mo­Embassy in Iran have demand­
As arrempts to solve the The hostages, held inside the endent negotiations could pro­hammad Reza Pahlavi, who is ed that the Shah be returned to 
U.S.-embassy buildings since mili­long the holding of the host­being-treated at New York Iran for trial in return for the 
I ran ian crisis got under way at tants took it over November 4 ages. Hospital-Cornell Medical Cen­safe release of the Americans. 
the United Nations in New and demanded the shah be Powell said the administra­ter. The hostages have been held 
York, Khomeini broadcast a extradited from New York, tion opposes the mission and There were reports the proce­at the embassy in Tehran since 
speech from his headquarters where his undergoing cancer expressed concern that the dure could be performed on the Nov. 4. The U.S. has resisted 
at the holy city of Qom to treatment, have had their first Iranians might misinterpret former monarch as early as ·their demands and threatened 
revolutionary guards, asking American visitor. Hansen's statements as ·an today. Burhenne said last week to use "other measures" be­
that they mobilize against the Rep. George l:fansen, R-Ida­administration signal, giving a that he was consulted on the sides persuasion to obtain the 
"Satanic" power of America. ho, described them as well but "conflicting view." case and advised that the release of the hostages. 
And 100 miles away, in 
Tehran, the 49 American host­
ages that are his price for 
Kbotneini urges unityagainst US 
Three weeks since seizure 
return of the deposed Shah 
Mohammad Reza Pahlavi spent 
their 23rd day as captives in 
Tehran's U.S. Embassy. 
U.S. still has no direct access to Khomeini 
''An Islamic country ought to 
he a military one... Everyone WASHINGTON (AP) -More to be at the ministry when Presidential emissaries Ram­the White House press secre­must learn shooting and mili­than three weeks since the revolutionary students seized sey Clark and William Miller tary, said Monday.
tary skills ...In addition to the seizure of American hostages, the American embassy on Nov. were turned back on their way Powell agreed with a sug~es­religious equipment and faith the U.S. government still has 4. to Iran three days after the tion that the Iranians mightthat (the youth of our nation) had no direct access to the There, in the first few days, embassy fell. There have been misinterpret Hansen's state­possess. they alsomust be Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, Laingen met regularly with no official U.S. representatives ments as U.S. "feelers."
equipped with materials and the Iranian revolutionary Ibrahim Yazdi, the foreign sent to Iran since. "If he (Hansen) gives a con­arms. . . A country that will leader. minister. But Yazdi quit office Rep. George Hansen, R-Idaho flicting view to the students, hehave 20 million youths in a few Neither the State Department with the fall of the Bazargan flew to Tehran on his own and could prolong their (the hos­years time, should have 20 nor the White House has been government. visited the hostages on Sunday. tages') stay," Powell said.
million armed men.'' The Mos­in contact with the revolution­This left Laingen in touch only But he is there on a personal At the embassy, where 49lem patr.iarch said on Tehran ary leader. And since the fall B£ with low-level officials, except basis, and ~ot as a--govemment Americans are being held aradio. monitored in London. 
the civilian Bazargan govern­for a couple of talks with representative. 23rd day, the State Department Shortly afterward, the radio ment soon after the Tehran Abolhassan Bani Sadr, a mem­In fact, the Carter administra­is in contact with studentbroadcast a statement from the embassy takeover, access to the ber of the ruling revolutionary tion is against such individual leaders.
guards' cenrral headquarters Iranian foreign ministry also council and the new acting head missions so long as the hos­Department officials refuse tosaying it had formulated nation­has been very limited. of the foreign ministry. . tages are being held. provide any details, except to
wide program of military train­Laingen not seen ''I think sort
W. Bruce Laingen, who head­has Bam don't that of confirm the channel is open.
ing for all which would be ed the U.S. mission, happened Sadr in more than a week. thing is helpful," Jody Powell, Meanwhile. messages fromexplained in further announce­the hostages' families are tele­ments. 
phoned to the embassy almostRl'ligiou.., fervor heightened every day.
as Moslem leaders called for "We can't be certain theydemonstrations and again alle­• • • Iran, UN have been delivered,'' said aged United States responsibility department official, who askedfor invasion of the Grand Mos­[continued from page 1] demands and threatened to use want a delay until next week. not to be identified. 
que, Islam's holiest shrine in 
"other measures" besides per­Waldheim was the second Two batches of mail from theMecca, Saudi Arabia. off until after Saturday. suasion to get the ·hostages secretary general to use his families were sent to Tehran.
Thousands gathered in an 
When Waldheim made his released. U.S. ships have been chartered power to hring to the Again, the official said, "weunusual night demonstration request Sunday, he told report­moved to the Indian Ocean, couocil'sattention ' any matter are unable to give a flat ~uar­outside the occupied embassy, ers he considered the current south of Iran, and Iran has put which in his opinion may threat­antee that it got through.' 
listening attentively to speech­confrontation the worst threat its own navy on full alert. en the maintenance of interna­Hansen is the only American, es, then, on cue, bursting into to international peace since the Diplomatic sources here fam­tional peace and security.'' aside from the hostages, to getdefening chants denouncing the 1962 Cuban missile crisis invol­iliar with the U.S. position said The first, Dag Hammarsk­into the embassy.
U.S. government. Many more vin~ the United States and the the United States believed the jold, convened a council meet­He reported the hostages were wore white mourning shrouds Soviet Union. ' council "should focus on the ing in 1960 because of trouble still kept with their hands tiedsignifying their readiness to die 
Iranian students have held hostages." They also said that in the newly independent loosely. The congressmanfor Islam. "Death to Carter, the hostages since Nov. 4. The while the United States might Congo, a former Belgian col­found them "anxious" but 
death to the Shah," they shout-
United States has resisted their not mind some delay, it did not ony. healthy. 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 
-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor in -chief, ....... Rosemary Mills Sports Editor .. ................ Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Box Q NolTe Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor ............. .Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak 
The ·Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the their authors. Cotu·mn space-is avail­able to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Executtve News Editor ...... Mike Lewis News Editor.................... Mark Rust News Editor .. ............... Mike Shields SMC Executive Editor .... .Ellen Buddy SMC News Editor ..... , .. Margie Brass II Business Manager ........Steve Odland Production Manager .... John McGrath Advertising Manager .... .....&b Rudy Controller............. .....Kevin Manion Circulation Manager ..... .Greg Hedges 
• 

The Observer Tuesday, November 27, 1979 -page 7 
Council enters sixth year amidst 
mcreastng 
demands 
by Tom Koegel StaffReporter 

The Advisory Council for Women Students has entered its sixth year of existence amidst increasing demands for a women's interest group to present the needs and goals of Notre Dame women to the campus as a whole. 
The Advisory Council was formed in 1974 to aid Sr. Assistant Provost John Miriam jones in assessing the opinions and problems of the growing number of women students. ''The council became my eyes and ears when the number of women became more than I could possibly see on my own,'' said jones. 
The Council has traditionallly been a behind-the-scenes force rather than a vocal advocate. "Ifthe Council feels the need to become more vocal, the Ad­visory Council will," Jones said. "However, I am not sure the Council is a forum for that." 
The Council consists of two member who are afpointed from each hall as wei as two off-campus representatives and the Student Government Coed Commissioner. The members ofthe council see its importance as an advisory counctl rather than an activities council. "We are more of an advisory council," comments Farley rep­re~entative Patty Hackett. "We try to find different areas which concern women and then work with the groups m­vovled.'' 
A recent example has been the rape crisis on and off campus. Members of the council have gone to Dean Roemer and Security to discuss different yvays in which security might be Improved. They have also spoken with landlords in the effort to e~courage better safe­ty precautions off-campus. 
The Council has sponsored various activities in the past, including discussions with women and women faculty members in the halls, and the past two years has sponsored an "Alumnae weekend," which brought back to the campus 
Concerning Krishna 
Supreme O:mrt refuses blockage of 'solicitation' 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Supreme Court refused yester­day to block ''wandering solici­tation by International Society of Krishna Consciousness members at the Indiana State Fair. 
The justices left intact lower court rulings which said In­diana's attempt to limit the society's activities to a fair booth is an impermissible in­fringement on religious free­dom. 
Indiana officials had argued the restriction is imposed on all exhibitors and serves an im-
U.S. suspects 
chemical 
warfare 
WASHINGTON (AP) • -U.S. intelligence officials stron~ly suspect that the Soviet Umon provided chemical weapons they believe were used against Laotian tribesman resisting communist Pathet Lao and Vi­etnamese forces. 
These officials, asking to re­main anonymous, said a team of Russian chemical warfare specialists was detected earlier this year in western Laos, scene of reported poison gas attacks on H'Mong hill tribesman who have never accepted communist victory in Laos. 
"We'll probably never be able 
to come up with conclusive 
evidence, but we have high 
suspicion that the Russians 
provided the chemical agents," 
one official said. 
An Army investigating group, 
including several doctors, con­
cluded that at least two and 
possibly three different chemi­
cals were used against the 
tribesmen -a nerve agent, a 
substance that caused massive 
bleeding, and probably a riot­
control gas. 
The Army investigators based 
their report on medical symp­
toms and other signs described 
by 43 tribesmen they interview­
ed last month at three refugee 
camps in northern Thailand. 
The tribesmen estimated 700 
to 1 ,000 people died and that 
many more were sickened as a 
result of attacks by planes and 
rockets. Whole villages were 
said by the tribesmen to have 
been wiped out. 
The H'Mong refugees were 
said in the investigation report 
either to have been directly 
exposed to chemical agents or 
to have witnessed attacks. 
portant, legitimate function. 
U.S. District judge William Steckler and the 7th U.S. Circuit of Appeals, however, ruled that state authorities could not offer enough justifica­tion for interfering with what the Krishna society sees as its religious mission. 
The society practices "San­kirtan," a ritual requiring its devotees to go into public places to disseminate and sell religious literature and to solicit contributions. 
"We are not unmindful, as anyone cannot be who has traveled through a major air­port facility in recent years, that the practitioners of Sankirtan have been regarded as annoy­
''Distaste for what is being request to conduct roving solic­expressed, and often absolute tations on the fairgrounds dur­revulsion, appear to be the ing the popular fair. hallmarks of the exercise of The society sued, and judge First Amendment rights and Steckler ruled in favor of the probably are the necessary Krishnas. contexts in which the preserva­The appeals court agreed, tion of those rights can be discounting state officials' ar­firmly assured," Pell said. guments that wandering solici­
In the fall of 1978, judge tation presents a safety hanrd, Steckler had barred Indiana interferes with other conces· officials from interferir.g in any sionaires and generates litter. way with Krishna society mem­In seeking Supreme Court bers who pay their way into the review, Indiana Attorney Gen­state fair and then practice the eral Theodore L. Sendak argued Sankirtan ritual on the fair­that society members "have grounds during normal operat­been afforded the same rights ing hours. and privileges provided to 
Steckler said society mem­everv other exhibitor on the bers had to wear identification Indiana State Fairgrounds." cards, could not represent their Notre Dame women graduates t? speak about careers, profes­sions and family. 
Jones was quick to point out, however, that the Advisory ~ounci_l ~~ould not be judged on Its acuvmes. "The Advisory Council promotes change for the better; often, its successes are not seen as direct results of its actions." 
Hackett provided an example. ''When we heard about the two new dorms, we suggested that the Hall President's Council loo~ !nto it, and they set up the petition from there.'' 
The demand for activities is obviously one which frustrates the council. "Every year someone asks for more activi­ties, . but our main purpose remams ~s a response group," Jones said. 
The call for a women's interest group interests members of the council. As jones noted, "The Advisory Council was formed in part to help women adjust to Notre Dame. Maybe women here have passed the point of adjusting. Maybe it is time to take that next step.'' 

Campus Delivery in LaFortune 
Ju.o,t CDiDQ 2844841 CReguOa~ bo~Utg hOJJtc: CHa~enteilt Ob ~eu\AcmC) 
,.........•••n•••..-.•••.......•n••n•...•••••...•••••••• 

BURN'S RENT-ALLS 2 Cu. Ff. Refrig. $55 per year new .shipments of refrigerators have just arrived also TV's Steamex Carpet Qeaner 10% off with student ID 
LARGE BBQ. GRILLS AUTO TOOLS FLOOR CARE EQUIPMENT 332 W. MISHAWAKA 259-2833 
L 6 I
• • • :i
'• •
Student Union Concerts Presents An Evening 1With 
HARRY 
CHAPIN 
A Benefit Concert · for the World Hunger Year 
Friday Dec. 7 -8 P·M · 
Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets $6.50 and 5.50 on sale at the ACC Box Office 
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. also at the usual ·ACC ticket outlets and River Gty Records Stores in 
South Bend and Misawaka
•
r:. 
6 


The Observer Tuesday, November 27, 1979-page 8 
Weakened dollar boosts tourism 
MIAMI BEACH, Fla. (AP) ­Taking advantage of the weak· ened dollar, Europeans are crossing the Atlantic in record numbers to vacatio11 in M~a1ai Beach, providing a sorely need­ed boost to the area's tourist industry. 
Even at the height of Flori­da's winter season, tourist offi­cials say rates for a two-week vacation package compare fav­orably with traditional Europ­ean resorts such as Spain's Costa del Sol and the Canary Islands. 
"They're just about the same when you find that a good dinner in a restaurant or hotel in Florida is half what it costs
-·. 
ROCCOS----~ 
men's and women's hairstyling at . ~ 
comfortable )'r'ic~s i. 5·31 N. Michigan 233-4957 
for the same meal in Europe," 
waysJohn Anderson, vice pres­
ident for marketing for National 
Airlines. ''When you toss in the 
reduced cost for sight-seeing, 
car rentals and shopping, Flori­
da becomes a real value. 

"We're promoting the hell out of what Florida offers -and it's working." 
) ust how many Europeans visit Florida isn't known. But based on reports from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, Miami-Metro tourism director Lew Priceestimates that about 150,00() Europeans will visit Florida in 1979, compared to about 100,000 in 1978. 
. Price predicts the figure will be higher in 1980, with as many as 250,000 Europeans visiting Miami Beach via s,cheduled carriers such as National, Brit­ish Airways, Lufthansa, Iberia and Pan Am and on charter flights. 
) ames Loftus, Miami sales manager for British Airways, sa,s--the decline in the value of the dollar has been the key ingredient in the influx. 
"When they come to Miami, expecially in the summer, they discover the frice of a good 
hotel is $20 to 30 a night, while 
comparable room in Spain or 
the Canary Islands would_ cost 
three times as much," Loftus 
says. 
Average rates for travel and 
lodging for a two-week vacation 
range from $690 to $1,150 from 
Germany or England to Spain 
and $992 to $1 ,082 from Europe 
to Miami Beach during the 
winter season, Andersen says. 
Figures/rojected for next sum­
mer an fall show it will cost 
$560 to $700 from the Nether­
lands to Miami Beach compar­
ed to $506 to $662 for a similar 
trip between Amsterdam and 
Tenerife in the Canary Islands. 
Many of the package vaca­tions include tnfs to Disney World in Centra Florida and the Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral. Even St. Pet­ersburg and St. Augustine re­port increases in European tourists. 
But mo~t ~f the Europeans 
head to M1am1 Beach sometime . during the trip. "It's saving Miami Beach," says Peter Hed­
lund of the Americana Hotel. 

When you tnake the Sullivan team, you call the plays. 

At tht' Sullivan Agency, we're a group of independent business people who work together to further each other's success. w~ offer you the wide open opportunity to go as far as your abilities can take y~m ... the freedom to choose your own temtory and clientele ... the satisfaction of helping others find solutions to their financial problems. 
To get you started on a rewarding car~e~ in life insurance, we've developed a trammg program that takes you from the basics to 
the ·most sophisticated sales skills in the ·industry. And you earn while you learn. 
If you enjoy working with people and want a career in which you make the decisions, we'd like to talk to you. 
Call me at 219-233-2171 or send in your resume • 'Sean Y. Sullivan, 2410 American Nationa. Bank Bldg., South Bend 46601 
The Sullivan Agency of Connecticut Mutual Life 
THE BLUE CHIP COMPANY SINCE 1864 
-an equal opportunity employer 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
DATI AI.MIIriiCUI-
Dec:. 3 i40ii:­ 
1'­ 
Dec J/4 Hoa/Tues.  
Dec. 3 ;;a;:­ X  X ·~~­X _I'Jl-.1 r A ~  

Allied Chemical Corporation 
B in ChE, EE, HE. 
Bank of America HBAflith Acct or Fin concentnation and in Acct. 
Boy Scouts of Alnerlca 
8 in Lib. Arts. 
Claw Corporation BM in EE, ME, Cht. 
Combustion Ens1near1ns, lnr. 8 in all Engr dtsciplinet;. 
Continental Telephone Syatl!!" B in EE, Ct. All BllA. 
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. Inc. 
1. Chemicals and Allied Products. 2. BH in ME. ). Proceu Eng, Project and 
atrons bk.grd 
BMD in ChE; Design Engr, 

Production Sup'trvhion, Technic.al Services and Sales, R&D, Haintenanc"C, Machine and Equipment desisn. 
4. Nationwide•. 6. Perm. Res. Via.. 

Hanufaetureu Naqonal &ank·of Detroit 8 in Econ. All·iBA. H!A Wlth fin c:onctrn. .·,:· •! Arinc heearch Q;\;poratlon·:!f. Cancdlod. ' 
Capital; Ap!lyatl!!_ . , B in Ub. Arta and Bus. A.d. 
Uecttoa;!c Data Syateas B in Haoth, Comp Set • 
4(11;

..,.. ~f-i....~IWijt-jO· Teuo Inotn.,.nu, Inc. DlBitol Syot... Group 
Dec. 4 
X X
~ 
X X 
X X 
Dec. li Tues. Dec. 4/5 Tuea/Wed. Dec. 5 ~  
X  
Dec. 5/b Wed/Thurs. Dec, b n;ur;:­ X  
Dec. 6/7 Thuu/,ri. Dec. 1 rrr:-­ X  
X  
X  

X X  J~ ,.,  
X X  

X 

BH in EE, HE, H!IO, Cht, Ca.p Sci. ALSO, lnter­viewina for Se.iconductor Croup in Houston • DEGREES: BH in EE, KE, 11!10, C011p Sci, !n&r Set, tnar Physics, Solid suu Physlc.a and Met. Deaian, developaent and production of industry'" broadest line of "emiconductor devices, electronic IIIAteriala nnd hematic packag••· R6.D associated vith aeaiconductor materiels, aateriala purification and procesa1nJ, surface treatiN'nt, device and ctrc:ult applications, coeputer-dded dasian aoftvara. 
AMricar Graduate School of lnternat ional Hanaa...nt All dearees and dleciplines. 
Arthur AnderaM"I 6o CQ. 111 In MEIO for Servicea, Audit and Tax. MBA for Staff posftlona Sn Syatl!tlll & Conaultina aa vell aa 
Audit and Tax. 
•noco B in Acct, Fin. 
R. R. Donnelley & Sona C011p.:1ny Jl'mA with Mkt conctr for Sales-Corporate Office; B in Acct, Fin for Price Estimator and Credit Trainees-Corporate office; 8H in ME, KEIO, El!:, C0111p Sci For Corporate Enar: HBA with Hgt conctm and BM in KE, KEIO, EE for Chicago Manufacturing Division. 
Firestone Tire & Rubber Company B in ME. !E, Chemistry, Physics, Hath. HS in Chetaisrry-Pol)'VIer Sci. B in Acct, (Job descriptions for the varioua dlaclpl1nea available at the Placeaent 
I ureau.) 

NASA Lewis fh•srarch Center BMD Jn A.E, HE, EE, Hrt, ChE. 
IU btatt' IOliur_n.~e Company Cancelled. 
Raxter Travenol Laboratories, Inc. it in Math, Econ, A\.ct, Fin, Mgt. 
~System: lndiotna Bdl, 11Uno1& Bell, WeRtern Electric, ~TOT-Long .h.!!!_e..!....__~ ell Laboratories, Teletype Corporation. 
All BBA. MBA. B in ChE, CE. BM in HE and EF., C0111p Sci, Hath. 
rc'"athol1c ReliPf Services (Changrd from D'!'c. 3)
=-=t·
~ MBA. MA, PhD in Cnvt, Soc/Anthropology. 
X Comptroll_e~~I}Ei' 8 in Fin, Acct, Er.on. MBA. 
Lir.coln First Bank, N.A. 8 in Ec:on, Acct, Fin. 
Norton Compan.1._ B in Lib. Arts, &us. AJ, Engr for Indu&trial Sales. 
Ford Motor Company MBA. Changed to Jan. 29 and JO. 
Goodyear Tire 6. Rubber Company-Corporate 
5) B in ChE and ME. 
6) 8 in Chem. 
Nalional Boulevard Bank of Chicago B in Yln, Acct. 
Republic Sud Corporation 
1. Carbon. Alloy, Steel Producta. 2. B in HE, EE, Her, HEIO. B in Acct. 3. Production Supervhion, Qu.allty Control. Hanagesnent Trdnee in Acct Dept. 
4. Cleveland, Warren, Canton, OH; Chicaso. IL; Buffalo, NY. 5. Penn. Rea. Visa. 
Schneider Transport, Inc. All BBA. B in EnKr• MBA. 
Ball Corporation BKD in Chemistry, EE, HE, Met. 
General Foods Corporation. Pet FoodsDiviaion 
1. Pet Foods. 2. 8 in Acct, Fin, ChE. HE. BH tn MUO. 
J. Plant, Project and Industrial Engr. Entry level Cost Analyat. 4. Kankakee, IL. 
Goldaan 1 Sacha 6. C011pany MBA with Fin bkgrd or concentration. 
The J . L. Hudson Company 
1. Full Department Store. 2. 8 in Fin, Acct. MBA with Acct, Fin bkgrd or conctrn. ). Financial Operatlona Divilllion. 4. Detroit, HI. 5. Citizenahip required. 
Untveraity of Haaaach"uu·tta. Graduate Department of Electronlea and COIDputer En&r. B lD all Ensr diactplinea, Phyaiea, Hath, Comp Sd. Aaherat, MA. Cithenahlp not required. 
.Shell Develo011ent Ca.oanv 
1. Ch•icala~Petrochnicah. 2. PhD in ChE. ). laaearch !ngr. 4. Houston, TX. 5. Para. Rea. Vt... Please c:oaplete Shell Qualification Record and brina to interview. 
Southlud Corporation B in leon. BBA. MIA. 
United Computlna Sxatcas, Inc. 
1. eo.puter Servicea. 2. 1!1 f.n Camp Sci, Hath, E.E. J, Syat... Analyat, Enaineen. 4. PriaarUy Kana.. City, HO. 5. Pen~. Rea. Viaa. 

The Observer Tuesday, November 27, 1979 -page 9 
Sponsorers flush with grief 
London nixes Crapper tnem.orial 
Buy Observer 
What Most PeoP.le "Know" About 
· Alcohol Is Wrong 
Be Different-
Know the Facts 
ABOUT YOUR DRINKING 
Th(' Student Government, in cooperation with Psychological Services 'of the Student H('alrh Center, is conducting a Survey ofDrinking Behavior Among College Students the vveek of November 26th. Questionnaires will be administered by section leaders at the W('eklv section meetings in all halls. The Hall Presidents Council is coordinating the effort. Elkn Dorney. !-f.P.C. Chairman, is striving for a record-breaking return on questionnaires. Eal:h student !s a_ssured of anonymity: numbers are assigned to the questionnaires. By raking note ot thts number. the student can later examine posted lists in the halls to comrar(' his/her scores on questions related to alcohol use to norms obtained on the camrus<'S of other universities. Comparison can also be made to the total Notre Dame profile, and to the profile of his/her own residence halls. Also, feedback will be given on alrohol-related problems. ranging from a classic hangover to being arrested for driving
whd(' mtoxtcared. 

Wayne Pellign"ni, director ofPsych Services, is investigating alcohol "abuse: through a student survey which wtll be conducted this'week. See story on front page [photo by Greg Maurer]. 
.' • . Habits 
[continued from page I] 
system will all<?w each student the oppot.tunuy ·to compare his/her scores on questions to norms obtained at other univer­
sity  camp:uses,: according  to  
Pellegrim. ;  
Pellegrini· also  said  that  in  

filling out these questionnaires, the heavy drinkrr may bect>me aware that he has a problem. If not, at least ·awareness' on campus will be raised, Pelle­grim si:ated. 
Along with raising student awar~ne~sl the 42:questi<;m ,sur­vey 1s to I be uuh.zed :m the develop'ft~nt o~ :an alCohol . ab~.;~se grc;ventiqn. program. ThiS program would comple­ment existing intervention and treatment work offered by Psych Services~ according to Pellegrini. ; . . 
Presently, altohol r~ferrals and cases are up from past years, according to Pellegrini. "We do individu;\1 work ~s a result of referrals from Dean Roemer, hall rectors, resident assistants, friend~ or oh a student's own accord. 
Programs to teach resident assistants how to intervene and group therapy are rwo other methods used by Psych Ser­vices. "I think the most effective way to help people with drinking problems is when heI she is confronted by a peer," Pellegrini says. 
If the survey is to help these programs and the student body, honesty is a prerequisite, Pelle­grini said. "I am definitely depending upon the integrity of each student. This is a chance to help themselves, the univer­sity and possibly future stu­dents," Pellegrini said. 
Pellegrini is hoping for a good response and thinks that the Hall Presidents Council (which is coordinating the administra­tion and collection) has been highly efficient. 
About six months went into preparing this survey, accord­Ing the Psych Services Director Dr. Patricia Crosson. ''We are now counting on the coopera­tion of individuals in each of the residence halls," she stated. 

LONDON (AP) · Thomas Crap­per, the Victorian sanitary engi­neer, is norto be commemorat· ed by London's city . fathers after all. · ' 
A proposal to erect a blue plaque honoring the 19th centu­ry toilet-maker has been reject­ed by the Greater London Council's historic buildings committee, council spo~esman Victor Kenny said yesterday. 
"Memorable though · Crap-per's name might be In popular terms," said the decision, "evi­dence from the Patent Office shows that he was not a notable inventor or pioneer in his chosen field and therefore the case for the plaque . is not justified." 
There are about 400 blue plaques on buildings around London commemorating fa­mous men and women who lived or worked here: notables such as Charles Dickens, Vin­cent Van Gogh and South American liberator Simen Boli­var. 
Crapper, born in Yorkshire in 1837, moved to London and achieved fame through the manufacture of sanitary equip­ment, including an early model flush toilet. He died in 1910 but the firm he founded remained in business through the 1960s. 
The council's researchers fail­ed to find any patents for Crapper's "flushing device" and said contemporary plumb­ing textbooks didn't even men­tion him, 
It had been proposed that Crapper's one-ume residence at Thornsett Road, Anerley, or his rwo addresses in Buckmas­ter Road, Battersea, all in south London, should bear the plaque. 
Classifieds 
TONY'S SHOE SHOP 
repair any kind of leather goods, also zippers , shoe repairing, polishing, Orthopedic Specialist, quick service, reasonable price Notre Dame Campus 283-1144 
Open 8to 5 Mon.-Fri. and 8to 1 Sat. 
i 
I 
' 
. ·• 
The Observer Tuesday, November 27, 1979 -page 10 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The . Peru, on Oct. 2, 19767. During first fashioned by the Supreme about finding the cut-up shirt. Supreme Court yesterday a-a customs search, agents found Court in 1914, the government The trial judge ruled that such greed to consider making it more that three poun ds of generally is prohibited from questioning and testimony easier for prosecutors to use cocaine in makeshift pockets using illegally obtained evi­could be used to impeach illegally seized evidence in sewed into McLeroth's under-dence. Havens' possible perjury. '
Court criminal trials. shirt. At Havens' trial, McLeroth A series of Supreme Court The: justices said they will McLeroth told agents that testified that Havens was pan rulings have carved out an study an appeal by the federal Havens, who already had clear­of a cocaine-smuggling conspi­exception to the exclusionaryconsiders use government to reinstate the ed customes, was part of the racy that had been active for rule -allowing prosecutors to cocaine-smuggling conviction smuggling operation. Agents some time. For his coopertaion, use tainted evidence to impeach 
·I 
of a Fort Wayne, Ind., lawyer. then arrested Havens and McLeroth was allowed to plead a defendant's testimony when it A federal appeals court last searched his luggage without a guilty to lesser charges and is directly contradicted by that 
seized 
of illegally April 5 struck down j. Lee warrant. received a suspended sentence. evidence. Havens' conviction an eight-One of the undershirts in Testifying in his own behalf, But those decisions always year prison sentence after rul Havens' luggage had pieces cut Havens denied any involvement dealt with direct testimony by ing that federal prosecutors in out that corresponded to the with the smuggling conspiracy. the defendant, not testimony Mtami had used impermissible pockets sewed into McLeroth's During cross-examination, he given.in answer to prosecutors' . evidence during Havens' trial. shin. Prior to Havens' trial, denied any role in McLeroth's questions. The 5th U.S. Circuit Court of however, the shirt taken from smuggling attempt. In invalidating Havens' con­evidence ApJ?eals ruled that Havens is his luggage was ruled imper­Prosecutors subsequently viction, the 5th Circuit ruled, entttled to a new trial. missible as evidence because it were allowed to ask Havens "The predicate for (tainted Havens and fellow Fort Wayne had been obtained iit an illegal about the undershirt found in evidence's) use in impeach­lawyer John McLeroth arrived search. his luggage, and a Customs ment must be found m the in Miami on a flight from Lima, Under an "exclusionary rule" agent was allowed to testify direct examination of the de­fendant Second,the evidence in question must contradict a par­ticular statement made by the
Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau 
defendant. An arguable conflict with a simple denial of guilt 

does not meet this test."
OMY, IF ~VCR. YON~ HAS 
5TIU NO tfJOR/J

IT 15 MY UNHAPPY TA~I< 70 I'M T.F. BANNON, COIJNSU 
On vacation 

Mike: Molinelli is on vacation this week. "Molarity" will return next Tuesday. 
Dr. Vasta 
•
recetves fellowship 

Dr. Edward Vasta, professor of English at the University, is one of two Indiana educators named by the National Endow­ment for the Arts to receive a 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 39 Savor 2 Hide 34 And others: 
Landing 41 Iced drink 3 City in abbr. 
197'1-80 fellowship for poets, boats. 42 Declaims Oklahoma 35 Skin 
playwrights, and writers of 
5 Turkish 45 Retires 4 Catfish problem 
fiction and other creative prose. 
title 48 Warns 5 Kettle 36 Ship prow 
Fellowships are awarded to 
10 Alaskan 50 Strike 6 Land 40 Heroic 
published writers of exceptional
island 51 Arabian measure 43 Stock 
talent to enable them to set
14 Case for gulf 7 English gun speculators small 53 Chemical 8 Lowdown 44 Criteria: 
aside time for writing, research 
articles element guys abbr. 
or travel. Recipients of the 275 
15 Singing 57 Sunflower 9 Lofts 46 Tale 
awards were chosen from 3,750 
group and millet 10 Southern 47 Made 
applications, an increase of 800
16 "Exodus" products 11 Correct fillets 
over the last judging periods.

author 62 Okay 12 Rubber 49 Stew 
Car<lline A. Richards of Rich­
17 Financial 63 To-(per-wheel 52 Staircase center fectly) 13 Exploits component 
mond was the second Indiana 
19 Certain 64 Market 18 Appears 54 Quick 
recipient. 20 Put forth crash 22 Houston and 55 Russian 
Vasta received his under­
21 Voluntary number Snead leader 
graduate tramtng at Notre 
servicemen 66 Type of 24 Point of 56 Handle 
Dame and received postgradu­
23 Stock trad-market land 57 Ali 
ate degrees at Umversl(y of
ing units 67 Sun: comb. 27 Letters 58 News bit form from Greece 5~ Gather 
Michigan and Stanford Univer­25 Injury mark 68 A writing 28 Tables 60 Pickle and 
sity. He has been a member of 
26 Force Lamb 30 Roman cheese 
the Notre Dame faculty since 
29 Hits 69 Elec. units statesman place 
1958.

33 Coin flip 70 Choice part 31 Was aware 61 Agitated outcome 71 Car mar 32 Getz or state 

© 1979 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. 11129/79
phrase Kenton 65 Before hold All Rights Reserved 37 Angle DOWN 33 Israeli or nail 
Freshmen

38 Military Clark's dance place: abbr. partner 
provide

r-----------------. Thanksaivina
I JUST FOR THE RECORD 1 6' 6 
Twenty-six families in theI In the 100 Center I Sout.h. Bend area . ~njoy~d a
1 traditional Thanksgtvmg dmner 
I this year, thanks to a group of
I 0 ffers 10 %0 ff on I Notre Dame freshmen stu­
dents. Members of the Fresh­
• EVERYTHI~G I m~n Year Advisory Council
I I 
ratsed almost $800 m campus
ALL MAJOR Sf'ORTS 
with ID & coupon I solicitations duri':lg the last two
ON 7FT T.V. I weeks and provtded complete
records, tapes, paraphernalia .I meals for families named by the
L 

----------------YMCA or St. Vincent de Paul
Society. Directing the program were 
.J 

two South Bend students,
RINK RIVERSIDE 
• r" 

Eileen O'Meara, and Derrick
:> PRINTING, INC. 
Campbell. The food baskets
209 EAST COLFAX AVE./ SOUTH BEND. IN 46617 
included one or more turkeys, 
milk, potatoes, vegetables, 
bread and food certificates. 
• FINE LITHOGRAPHY 
• COMMERCIAL PRINTING 
The project was one of a series
• INSTANT PRINTING 

of community involvement pro­
Phone 232-7935 See us about your resume 
grams planned by the council for fellow students during their first year at Notre Dame. 


• 

T •. 
II~ "' -_y-• • 

The Observer -SportsBoard Tuesday, November 27, 1979 -page 11 
' 1 Football 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE East w T Pet. PF PA 
Miami 8 0 .615 250 196 New England 8 0 .615 334 237 Buffalo 7 0 .538 249 222 N.Y. Jets 5 0 .385 253 316 Baltimore 4 0 .308 216 304 Central Houston 10 3 0 .769 315 274 Pittsburgh 10 3 0 .769 334 225 Cleveland 8 5 0 .615 319 310 Cincinnati 3 10 0 .231 290 344 Wast San Diego 10 3 0 .769 333 211 Denver 9 4 0 .692 240 201 Oakland 7 6 0 .538 280 259 Seattle 7 6 0 .538 300 288 Kansas City 5 8 0 .385 191 231 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE East Philadelphia 9 4 0 .692 252 231 Dallas 8 5 0 .615 284 255 Washington 8 5 0 .615 248 225 N.Y. Giants 6 7 0 .462 203 235 St. Louis 3 10 0 .231 259 286 Central Tampa Bay 9 4 0 .69~ 263 200 Chicago 7 6 0 .538 235 229 Minnesota 6 7 0 .462 205 280 Green Bay 4 9 0 .308 193 250 Detroit 2 11 0 .154 189 275 
West Los Angeles 7 6 0 .538 248 246 New Orleans 7 6 0 .538 306 269 Atlanta 4 9 0 .308 228 307 San Francisco 1 12 0 .077 254 365 
Sunday's results Buffalo 16, New England 13, OT Pittsburgh 33, Cleveland 30, OT New York Giants 14, Washington 6 Cincinnati 34, St. Louis 28 New Orleans 37, Atlanta 6 Minnesota 23, Tampa Bay 22 Philadelphia 21, Green Bay 10 San Diego 28, Kansas City 7 Los Angeles 26, San Francisco 20 Miami 28, Baltimore 24 Oakland 14, Denver 10 
Monday's result Seattle 30, New York Jets 7 
AP TOP TWENTY 
The Top Twenty teams in The Associated Press college football poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, records and total points. Points based on 2D-19-18-17-16-15­14-13-12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-?-1: 
1. Alabama (34) 10-0-0 1.193 2. So. California (12) 10-0-1 1.142 3. Ohio State (13) 11-0-0 1.141 4. Florida State 11-0-0 997 5. Oklahoma (1) 10-1-0 963 6. Texas (YJ) 9-1-0 934 7. Nebraska 10-1-0 850 8. Arkansas (YJ) 10-1-0 848 9. Brigham Young (1) 11-0-0 · 760 
10. Houston (YJ) 9-1-0 751 11. Pittsburgh 9-1-0 611 12. Purdue 9-2-0 544 13. x-Washington 9-2-0 454 14. Auburn 8-2-0 392 15. Michigan 8-3-0 376 16. Tulane 9-2-0 354 17. South Carolina 8-3-0 266 18. Clemson 8-3-0 122 19. Penn State 7-3-0 114 20. Baylor 7-4-0 73 x-lncludes forteit by Arizona State. 
. 
Classifieds 
Notices  Acapulco. Last seen hanging on the hooks by South Dining Hall's right side. Yours is still there if you picked mine up  
by mistake. Please call Cindy, 7993. after  
midnight.  
Used book shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Rd. Niles. 683-2888  Lost: Sr-56 Texas Instruments calculator. Last used in the Physics lecture Room #118 N.S.H. If you have found it, please  
IMPROVE YOUR GRADES' Send $1.00  call 6824 -Reward.  
tor your 306-page catalog of collegiate research. 10,250 topics listed. Box 25097G, Lns Angeles, California, 90025. (213) 477-8226.  Found: Green Saint Christopher's medal -Engraved "Love. Melissa 72-76" Phone 8627 to claim.  
Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 277-0296.  Lost: Dungeons and dragons players handbook on first floor Grace. Five dollar  
Alterations for men's and women's clothing. Call 255-6275.  reward for return, no questions asked. Return to 309 Grace. Phone 1621.  
Morrisey Loan Fund Last day to apply for loans before X-Mas break is Dec. 12. $20-$200. one percent interest. M-F.  For Rent  
11:30-12:30  
Will do typing -Reasonable -Neat -Accurate. Call 287-5162  Room for rent -near rides. 45.00 per month. 233-1329.  
Professional typist. IBM Selectric II. Mrs. Burnore. Near Campus. 272-3134.  Room for rent 57/mo. & utilities call 6171 or 289-8295  

Lost&Found 
Lost: White knit wrap around sweater purchased during senior class trip in 
Hockey 

Friday Notre Dame 
2 2 01-5 Cornell 
2 2 0 0-4 

FIRST PERIOD: 1, Cor.. Habib (Proulx) 
1:55. 2, NO, Rothstein (Cox) 4:28. 3, Cor., Strawman (Proulx, Habib) 5:15. 4, NO, Devine (Meredith, Cameron) 13:24. 
SECOND PERIOD: 5, Cor., Tredway PPG (Marrett) 5:09. 6, Cor., Jankowski (Roche) 
6:16. 7, NO, Meredith (Don Lucia, Michalek) 
10:38. 8, NO, Logan (Cameron, Cox) 11:04. THIRD PERIOD: No scoring. OVERTIME: 9, NO, Schmidt PPG (Mere­
dith, Michalek) 1:10. SAVES: NO (Laurion) 25; Cornell (Eliot) 30. ATTN: 4,100 (c) 
Saturday Notre Dame 0 3 3 -6 Cornell 1 1 2 -4 
FIRST PERIOD: 1, Cor., Proulx (Tredway, Olds) 13:30. 
SECOND PERIOD: 2, Cor., Hennessy (Campbell, Marrett) 0:22. 3, NO, Schmidt (Cameron, Biorkl 1:56. 4, NO, Meredith (Brownschidle, Michalek) 7:45. 5, NO, Logan (Schmidt, Bjork) 12:27. 
THIRD PERIOD: 6, NO, Bellomy (Roth­stein, Dave Lucia) 3:06. 7, NO, Rothstein (Bellomy, Dave Lucia) 5:52. 8, Cor., Hennes­sy (Tredway,Oids) 12:42. 9, Cor., Tredway (Berk) 13:46. 10, NO, Meredith open net (Rothstein, Schmidt) 19:50. 
SAllES: NO ~cN•u:nara) 33; Cornell (Eliot) 26. 
ATTN: 5,632. 
We rAnt dependable cars from 7.95 aday and .o7 a mile. Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Car. 921 E:Jefferson Blvd Mishawaka, Ind. 255-2323 
3 Bedroom efficiency home clean and comfortable. partially furnished, all gas. Area Twychenham and Corby. 287-7975 
Castino, Griffin share honor 
NEW YORK (AP) -Third baseman John Castino of the Minnesota Twins and shortstop Alfredd Griffin of 'the Toronto Blue ] ays. were named joint winners Monday of the Ameri­can League Rookie of the Year award presented by the Base­ball Writers Assoctation of A­menca. 
Castino and Griffin each re­ceived seven votes from a 28-member BBW AA committee consisting of two voters from each of the American League's 14 franchise cities. 
Relief pitcher Mark Clear of the California Angds, the only rookie in either league named for the midseason All-Star Game, finished third with five votes. 
New York Yankee reliever Ron Davis, first baseman Pat Put­nam of the Texas Rangers and pitcher Ross Baumgarten of th,e Chicago White Sox received three votes each. 
It marked the first time the AL rookie balloting has finished in 
Sports Briefs. __ 
Injury sidelines Hanzlik 
Bill Hanzlik, senior guard and co-captain of the Fighting Irish, suffered a dislocated left index finger last week. Surgery was performed last Tuesday after which Hanzlik will re-main with a wrist cast for approximately three weeks. It is hopeful that he will be ready for action Dec. 29 when Notre Dame faces Kentucky in Louisville. 
.Junior Stan Wilcox is expected to fill in at the starting guard spot for Saturday's opener against Valparaiso. 
IH requests equipment 
All interhall football players who have not returned their equipment are requested to do so Thursday night between 
6:30 and 8:1 ~ at gate 11 of the stadium. Please do not return equipment to the interhall office in the ACC. 
Purdue inks 6-11 Gampfer 
WEST LAFA YETIE, Ind. (AP) -Joe Gampfer, a 6-foot-11 center fwm Cincinnati LaSalle High School, has announced he intends to enroll at Purdue next year. 
Gampfer averaged 14.4points and nearly 10 rebounds per game last year as LaSalle posted a 21-4 record. 
-r T 
-

after 5:00 
Furnished apt. for rent. kitchen facilities, very close to campus. $175 month call 289-5406. 272-2720 after 5:30. 
Wanted 
WANTED: BACKPACK WITH FRAME FOR EUROPE!! PLEASE CALL 288-2095 
Christman without Santa? Regina Hall needs Mr. Claus for Xmas Bazaar interested call 4-1-4884 or 4-1-5778 
BEACH LOVERS' Part time student sales representative position available for Spring Semester. Jl)b involves promoting high quality sun trips on campus for commission and free travel. Call or write for an application. Summit Travel, Inc., Parkade Plaza. Suite 11, Columbia, Missouri 65201 (800)325-0439 
Female roommate to share partially turn. apartment. Call Lee days: 283-7458 evenings: 277-1654. 
Wanted: Riders to N.W Iowa for Christmas. To share usual. Call Dean 232-1150 
Part-Time Job, Undergraduates wanted for two short-term research projects. Both tasks deal with assessing student opinions. Involves 2'12 hours work and 
a deadlock. In 1976, pitchers Pat Zachry, then with Cmcinna­ti, and Burch Metzger, then with San Diego, finished tied for the NL rookie award. 
Griffin, a 21-year-old switch hitter, batted .287 for the Blue Jays, who acquired him from the Cleveland Indian organiza­tion in a trade at last winter's baseball meetings in Orlando, Fla. He set club records with 179 hits and 20 stolen bases. 
Castino, 25, won the Twins' 
third-base job at midseason and 
batted .285 with 52 runs batted 
in for Minnesota. 
Clear, who had won 10 games 
[continued from page 12] 
gap to 5-4 on scores by Steve Hennessy at 12:42 and Brock Tredway at 13:46. Irish goalie Bob McNamara, who totaled 33 saves, and his defensive corps held on and Meredith capped the victory with an open-net goal with just 10 seconds re­maining. It was his 12th goal of the year. 
Friday night things were not as easy, and as was the case in the second of the series, Notre Dame found itself having to fight back from a two-goal deficit. 
Following a 2-2 first period tie, the Big Red struck with two goals by Tredway and Steve Jankowski. Tredway's goal came with Irish defenseman Scott Cameron off for trippins. He beat Notre Dame goalte Dave Laurion with a 40-foot slapshot at 5:09. Laurion pro­tested vehemently that Cor­nell's Doug Berk had set up shop in the crease, but it was to no avail. 
Jankowski's goal came just 
1:07 later and gave the Big Red a 4-2 advantage. 
But the Irish tied the score on two goals set up by defense­men. Don Lucia (no relation to Dave) fired a slapper from the right point whtch Meredith deflected by Eliot at 10:38. 
Just 26 seconds later, Scott Cameron found Logan streak~ by the All-Star break, finished with an 11-5 record and 14 saves for the West Division champion Angels. 
Davis, recalled from the mi­n<_>rs when Yankee bullpen ace Rtch Gossage was stdelined with an injured thumb, posted a 14-2 record with nine saves. Baumgarten was 13-8 with a 
3.53 earned run average for the White Sox and Putnam batted .277 with 18 home runs for Texas. 
The Natio•tal Leag·ue rookie winner, last of the BBWAA awards, will be announced Wednesday. 
• (I 
. leers 

ing alone near the blue line and 
fed the Irish sophomore for 
what was his first gnl of the ")'l:ar. ,, 
From this point on it was a 
defensive struggle and both 
goalies were called on for just 
five saves apiece in the score­
less third period. Laurion fi­
nished with 25 saves while Eliot 
totaled .\U. 
Schmidt provided the heroics 
for Notre Dame at 1:10 of the 
overtime when he fired a slap­
shot from the top of the right 
faceoff circle on a break down 
ice. Eliot had two chances to 
stop the puck, but it trickled 
over his nght shoulder and the 
Irish proved to be spoilers in 
Cornell's opener. 
ICE CHIPS: Notre Dame's 
Tom Michalek set what proba­
bly was a first for the Irish in 
penalties when he was called 
for facemasking Saturday night 
... an ECAC rule requires all 
players to wear the protective 
cages this year ... Saturday's 
attendance at theWarMemorial 
was the largest to watch a 
hockey game there this year ... 
it is also the home ·of the 
Rochester Americans of the 
American Hockey League 
Bob McNamara's father, Gerry, 
used to play goal for the 
Amerks ... this weekend's 
series at Wisconsin will by 
broadcast back to South Bend 
by WNDU-AM radio, starting 
at 8:30 South Bend time. 
,. 

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Obumr office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail. 
can be completed in just one da~. Also, 
can be arranged to fit '(OUr sc edule. 
Co11tact Bob at ext. 3886 or 277-3903 for 
scheduling. 
Personals For Sale 
Bob. 
Welcome back and congratulations on a 
successful trip to Tokyo! I'm really 
For Sale: 1969 VW Fastback Needs looking forward•to my postcard. 
Work, $450 as is. Call 277-5286 · Lisa 
P.S. -Hi, Jack' For Sale-one season basketball Ticket, padded Seat -Best offer 234-1860 Don't miss the Midwest Bluew Festival 
this weekend. For tickets call the Student For Sale: 1 PV. Spaulding Sideval Skis Union ticket office. with Salomen Racing Bindings. Good 
Cond. $125 or best offer. Call Jim To all the other girls after John Ferroli: 272-3997 before 9:00am. Get lost. He's mine' (dime. right?) 
Christmas shopping in the comfort of To my masscomm friend Marybeth who 
your dorm. Avon gifts for men. women often confuses obnoxious with cynical: and children. 233-6581 did you have a nice break? 
Happy coupon. Call Rob 234-1633 21st Rose. Patty For sale: Y2 price United coupon best 
For sale -112 price American Airlines To the best sister in the world' 
offer. Gerry 277-5072 Attent Transact-ional Analysis instruc­tiona! group Donation Call Jim .. (616) 6g4-5985
Tickets 
LOONS* KESS* FAG* WHEELS* RON* •-REGINA SO.
Need VALPO basketball tickets Call THANKS A BUNCH
Steve 8907 
LOVE ABBIE 
For Sale: 1 student Basketball season Free -CHRYSTAL rocks Saturday night.
ticket. Padded seat in Senior section. Best offer. 8932 
---------~-----­

Notre Dame overwhelmingly defeated Miami, 40-1 5, Sunday afternoon (late Saturday even­ing ESl) in the third annual M1rage Bowl, playing under a steady downpour and before a Tokyo crowd of 66,000 in Nat­ional Olympic Stadium. The Notre Dame victory over the Hurricanes, a fitting opponent granting the weather condi­tions, capped off the 1979 Notre Dame season with a final record of 7-4. 
Senior captains Vagas Fergu­son and Dave Waymer both finished fine Notre Dame car­eers with outstanding perform­ances. Ferguson scored three touchdowns and rushed for 177 yards in 35 carries, giving him 
I .4 .17 yards for the season and -~ .472 yards for his career. Waymer was equally brilliant for the day with two intercep­tions which were both returned for scores. In the second quarter, Chuck Male kicked a 35-~·ard field goal, his 13th this year and a new season record. 
Notre Dame's first score came after Miami roughed punter Dick Boushka in the first quarrer. The ball was advanced to the Miami 28-yard line and Ferguson punched through for a srore from the two-yard line 

leers drop Cornell twice 
Tuesday, November 27, 1979-page 12
SRorts 
Irish roll over Hurricanes as Ferguson, Waymer shine 
by Bn(m Beglane Sports Wn"ter 
ROCHESTER. N.Y.. With all 
the assorted injuries and trou­
bles the Notre Dame hockey 
team has been having lately, an 
administrative decision to 
change the team's official co­
lors from blue and gold to black 
and blue can't be too far away. 
But while this decision is 
being pondered, the Irish are 
doing something the skating 
wounded are not supposed to 
do·-win 
The latest triumphs for coach Lefty Smith's crippled crew took place in upstate New York over most people's preseason favorite to win the Eastern Collegiate Atheletic Conference title, Cornell University. The Irish took a 5-4 overtime victory over the Big Red Friday night at the Lynah Rink in Ithaca and completed the sweep with a 6-4 victory Saturday before 5,63 2 at the War Memorial in Roches­ter. 
The wins boosted Notre Dame's overall record to 7-4 and give the Irish a three-game win streak. The Irish take their -1-4 Western Collegiate Hockey Association record back into league action this weekend when they play at Wisconsin. 
The series was the opener for Cornell and puts irs record at 0-2. 
''Overall we got an excellent performance down the line," said Smith, "from the goalies all the way up to the forwards. The injuries have really been piling up on us and we have had to do a lot of juggling. But the team has adjusted admirably and, to say the least, we are pleased to come away with a sweep. 
''This team is the most injury 
riddled club I have coached at 
Notre Dame. The players have 
faced a lot of adversity but they 
are showing a lot of character. 
And in the process, we are even 
developing some depth on both 
offense and defense.'' 

Perhaps the best example of that depth was the play of freshmen forwards Rex Bello­my and Dave Lucia. After Mark Sicoly hurt a knee in Friday's contest and Jeff Perry was forced to leave Saturday's game during the second period due to illness, left wing Bill Rothstein found himself the only survivor of that line. 
Smith moved Bellomy and Lucia up with Rothstein, and the newly formed trio respond­ed with two third-period goals S~turday, including the game wmner. 
The Irish had fought back from a 2-0 deficit. Andre Proulx scored in the first period for Cornell and Steve Hennessey added one 22 seconds into the second period. But John Schmidt, Greg Meredith and JeffLogan scored three straight goals to give Notre Dame a 3-2 lead after two periods. 
Meredith's tally came on a wrap around shot past Big Red goalie Darren Eliot at 7:4 5 after the Irish right wing had worked the puck free from the corner. Schmidt set up Logan's goal with a one-handed pass to the streaking right wing at 12:27. 
But Beflomy, Lucia and Roth­stein teamed to seal the win early in the third period. Bello­my notched his first career goal at 3:06 on a rebound shot from the slot. Lucia set up Roth­stein's game winner at 5:52 when he carried the puck from the Irish zone down ice and fed the sophomore for his sixth goal of the year. 
Cornell showed continued signs of life midway through the stanza and narrowed the 
[contirJUed on page I I) 

five plays later. Waymer's first interception and score came later in the quarter to bring the score to 14-0. 
In the second quarter, Miami sustained a 66-yard drive that allowed Gary Breckner to score from the one. Afterwards, a Notre Dame drive stalled out on the one-yard line and Miami took possession, only to be forced to punt. Sophomore linebacker Bob Crable blocked the punt and the ball slithered out of the end zone for a safety. Male's field goal came later in the quarter, bringing the half­time score to 19-7 in favor of the Irish. 
Ferguson scored from the I I -vard line late in the third pn.iod. His third touchdown came early in the fourth quarter on a two-yard effort. The final Notre Dame score came from Waymer's second aerial theft and 27-yard return. With only four seconds left in the game, Miami running back Breckner scored from the one-yard line, leaving the score of the contest 4~-I 5 after a two-point conver­
SIOn. 
The Irish amassed 22<.> yards rushing and 21 yards passing 
for  an  offensive  total  of 250  
yards.  Notre  Dame's  record  
stands  as  the  poorest  in  16  

regular seasons, bur the victory over Miami was an impressive display of talent and marked a strong comeback from succes­sive losses to Tennessee and Clemson. 
At Chicago 

Sailors finish ninth 
National prominence is noth­ing new to Notre Dame athletics · football, basketball, hockey, fencing, sailing . 
Sailing? That's right, sailing. This weekend in Chicago, the Notre Dame Sailing Club braved 20­degree temperatures and strong winds and finished ninth in the Fall National Sailing Championships. 
Junior captain Phil Reynolds finished fourth in the A division with Margarita Cintra as crew. In the B division, Greg Fisher sailed to a 14th place finish with Jane Brown and Carol Silva as crew. 
''The cold weather wasn't so bad," said Reynolds. "Last year we sailed in a blizzard. The 
wind  was  terrible  though.  On  
Saturday,  16  boats  capsized.  
We, were  just  lucky  to  hang  
on.  

Though the weather may not have been ideal for splashing around in Lake Michigan, all of the 18 teams that made it to the nationals had to endure the same conditions. It seemed that the nation's service academies were best prepared as two of them fmished one-two in the standings. Kings Point, the Merchant Marine Academy took top honors and Navy finished second. 
An ND man joins hisfriends
· 

Pt·ople around here talk in lofty tones about all rhe Notre Dame legends... names you can look up in record books or find inscribed on the gold-plated trophies that line the walls of the ACC. Unfortunately, most of those heroes come from days we can only read about; one of the shortcomings, I'm afraid, of being young. 
But Mike the usher remembered them all. A short. round fellow who didn't have hair on his crvstal ball scalp, Mike had been at Notre Dame "(or over 50 years!" he'd always say J'roudly wi.th a smile that revealed he enjoye every mmute. 
I never knew his last name until I saw it in the obituary section of last Monday's South Bend Tn.hune. To me he was just Mike the usher. Hut, quite honestly, I don't think he wanted to bC" anyrhmg else. 
t\like Kalmar worked the press box door at everv Notre Dame football, basketball and hork.ey game for the last 30 years. "Only game I missed was in '46 when I was sick," he told me once. He even worked concerts. ("But I gotta bring my earplugs for those.") I met him at the Blue-Gold game my freshman year and I never got tired of hearing his stories about all the people in all the books they peddle at the bookstore for "Regularly $10.98 but this week only $5.95!"' 
" (remember when 01' Rockne ... " and another Mike the usher srory would begin. He knew 'erri all. .. Gipp, Rockne. Leahy--but for Mike it wasn't name-dropping. These people were just his friends. 
"When I was a kid I would sell newspapers outside Cartier Field before football games,'' he reminisced. "i.ock would come by and ask all us kids if we wanted a job. We'd all say 'Sure Rock I' so he'd bring us all into the game with him and let us fetch water or carry a bag or something. 
Frank LaGrotta 
Spons Writ.,. 


"He really didn't need us," Mike grinned with a twinkle in his eye. "Rock was just that kinda guy. Always doin' things for people." 
Oncf' I asked Mike if I could write a story about him for The Ohserver. "Yo•1've got so many stories you could write a hook." I kidded him. 
' Maybe I will," he'd say witi1 mock serious­nC"ss. "I could write a great one ... call it All My Fnl!nds At Notre Dame.'' 
"Think of all the money you'd make," I prodded. 
"No sir." he retorted as if I offended him. "I'd give every cent back to Notre Dame. I could nc·ver make any money off my friends.'' 
Bur he still refused to let me write about him. 
"On me?'' he said incredulously. "I never did nothin' worth more 'n two or three words. All I am is an usher, a pretty good one, mind you, bur· still jusr an usher. I'll tell you some great stories. but leave me outta it." 
Which is probably what will happen, since Mike the usher never scored a touchdown or hit a jump shot to beat UCLA. In fact, he didn't even go to school here bur, at his wake last week. Mike the usher was all dressed up in his familiar blue jacket and blue and gold tie. 
"That's what he wanted," said his wife. "He loved Notre Dame with all his heart and soul and he always said that the greatest thing about the place was all the good people who came there." 
And he should know. because he was cerrainly one of them. 



