, , , Alaskan adventure -page 7 

VOL. XIV, NO. 49 an independent srudenr newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1979 

by Tricia · Beaujean StaffReporten 
''As the head of a large, international movement I am involved with thousands of others in a conspiracy to overthrow the worl~. Each year we teach tens of thousands of high school and college students from more than half of the major counrries ot the world in .he art of revolution. and dailv rhese re"!olutiomst:> are at work around the globe spreadifg ~~r philosophy and strengthenmg our influence. 
These words appe,;.re·d to the :Weekly periodical Cbnsliumt} Tr1tiul and were lspoken not bv a C)mmunis·r party· chairman bpt by William·~­Hnght. founder of the Campus Crusade tor Chnst. The revo!urion he spea~s of is a spiritual one, and Bright and his workers have been out tn evangelize tfi_e world since 19) 1. The Crusad~'s full time sta.. •ww numbers over 7,000 arcordmg to the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Chapter. Director Craig Valentine. 
In a 'College Life'' Meeting Friday night, Valentine attempted to communicate 'the clatms of ) esus Christ in a way that is relevant to college students,'' he said. 
The organization is interdenominational and non-profit. designed to "help students grow in their relationship with Christ," Valentine said. 
In addition to meetings where students come to share and enjov singing, reflective thinking and conv_ersation, the organization has weekly ~ible srudtes and leadership trammg classes. 'We reach out toward the leadership on campus''. said Valentine, 'to heip us extend a greater influence in reaching others.·' 
(continued on page 4) 
Campus poll 
Students expect Kennedy in '80 
by Kelli Flin.t StaffReporter 
Although a majority of Notr1e Dame students claim to be familiar with the major carril­paign issues, most admit that they are not aware of tl:je individual candidates' views qn these subjects. Sixty-thr<je percent of the students projefC that Edward Kennedy will oe the next president according to an Observer poll conducted th~s weekend. 
1 
Students participating ·in this survey make up 1 percent of Notre Dame's total undergradu­ate enrollment. They wete chosen at random, equally dis­tributed across the colleges, with attention given w sex and year. 
Students were first asked whether or not thev were familiar with the major issues of the election. Sixty-five percent answered yes while 28 percent said no. and 6 percent claimed some familiarttv with the issues. but ad~ed that their knowledge was limited in the area. 
Thev were then asked ro name the three most important issues in the race. The state of the economy was named by 70 percent of the students as the prevailing issue, while the energy crisis was cited by 43 percent as a major issue, and foreign policy by 25 percent. 
Nuclear powerwasnamed by 13 percent as an issue of concern, and 8 percent felt the health insurance policy and the quality ?f leadership were important Issues. 
\'X'hen asked whether they were aware of the candidates' positions on the issues, 31 percent answered YES, while 51 percent said that they were not aware of the candidates· positions. Another 8 percent felt that thev had some know­ledge of th~ candidates' poli­cies, and 8 percent gave no response. 
Students were then asked which candidate's position they supported on the major issues. 
(continued on page 5) 
Iranian students pour into US Lebanon Embassy 
I3EIRUT (AP)-Iranian stu· dents chanting ''Death to the Americans! '' scaled a fence and poured into the U.S. Embassy garden in Beirut, Lebanon, yesterday in support of the 8-clay old embassy takeover in Tehran. Iran's new foreign affairs chief declared there would be "no compromise, no negotiation" to fr~e the Tehran hostages. 
It was believed that behind­the-scenes talks continued in the Iranian capital, however, with the Palestine Liberation Organization and Moslem di­plomats as mediators. One Arab report said hostages might be freed by today, though an Iranian official said 
he  saw  no  ''omen''  that  this  
would happen.  
The  anti-American  fervor  in  

Tehran was unabated. 
Some 200 uniformed air force men Sunday joined the thous­ands of Iranian protesters who have flocked to the U.S. Embas­sy each day since a mob of student militants seized it and about 100 American and other hostages Nov. 4. The airmen demanded that all ties with the United States be cut and all foreign capital be expropriated. 
Ab.out 40 Iranians invaded the Beirut emba~sy garden, burned an American flag and chanted slogans for about two hours Ulli il Syrian peacekeeping troops, swing clubs, routed them in bloody melee. 
When the unarmed students jumped over the embassy fence, The U.S. Marine guards did not try to repulse them and instead took to the embassy roof with their light weapons and walkie talkies. 
Armed Lebanese police rein­forcements arrived at the scene but took no ;>rtion, apparently waiting for the Syrians, the strongest armed force in fac­tion-ridden Lebanon. 
In Tehran, Abolhassan Bani Sadr, recently put in charge of Iran's Foreign Ministy by Aya­tollah Ruhollah Khomeini, told French radio interviewers "no compromise, no negotiation, is possible," over Iran's demand that the United States extradite the ousted Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi to Iran to stand trial for his life. 
Bani Sadr said he would not be satisfied if the deposed mon­arch, hospitalized in New York 
(continued on page 8) 
Tensions stir on West Bank as Israelis arrest Arab 
Jerusalem (AP) . The Israeli army yesterday jailed without charge the Arab mayor of Nablus, and influential Pale­stenian leader opposed to Is­rae!' s settlements policy and limited autonomy plans in the West Bank of the Jordan River. 
The arrest of Mayor Bassam Shakaa, pending legal pro­cedures to deport him, touched off angry protests in the West Bank. 
I~ another development likely to heighten tension in the o-ccupied territories, the Israeli Cabinet adopted a general poli­cy decision calling for more Jewish settlements and the enlargement of. existing out· posts in the West Bank, Gaza Strip and the Syrian Golan Heights. /\ Cabinet committee was left to work out details and no number was set for new settlements 
Following the decision, an organization of poor Israelis scuffled with settlers at Gush Erzion, wouth ofJerusalem. 
The group, which calls itself the Black Panthers, complains the government is spending monev on West Bank settle­ments that could be used to house the poor. Israel Radio reported that one of the settlers was beaten after he fired his weapon in the air, and troops disarmed rwo other settlers who shot over the protesters. 
The compromise Cabinet de­cis ion, accepted unanimously, seemed aimed at heading off a showdown and possible resig­nation within Prime Minister Menachem Begin's fractured government. 
The Cabinet also chose a new site for the Elon Moreh settle­ment a few miles from the campsite it now occupies over­looking Nablus. · 
The Israeli Supreme Court ruled Oct. 22 that private land for Elon Moreh was illegally seized and ordered the settle­ment evacuated with 30 days. The settlers. who have strong right-wing support in the gov­ernment, have so far refused to budge, threatening a major confrontation within the Cabin­et that could topple Begin from powl"r. 
After Shakaa was taken to tile maximum-security Ramla Pri­son hear Tel Aviv, the Nablus town council resigned and other West Bank mayors consulted on a possible mass resignation. Scattered demonstration, and school and business strikes were reported throughout the area, inhabited by 700,000 Palestinians. 
_Shakaa won a temporary injuc­tlon from the Supreme Court against his , expulsion last week, but the army spokesman said the court did not bar Shakaa's detention until a hear­
: ing could be held. 

------~----------------------------------------------·-----------~---­
News in brief 
Six derailed freight cars erupt irl explosion 
CANTONMENT Fla. (AP) · Six propane.Jaden railroad cars derailed and burst into flames in the Florida Panhandle early yesterday. civil defense official said the derailed freight was a time bomb that could tick for days. Florida highway patrol troopers said there were no injuries and called the situation "stable." But Buck Renfroe of the Escambia Coumy civil defense warned of the potential for an explosion. 
''It could happen in several hours, it could happen wmorrow," said Renfroe. "In Waverly, Tenn., they had one happen even after all the fires went out. They were cleaning up the area when one of the cars vented and killed eight or nine people. That's what we're trying to prevent." 
Controversial movie stars 
Redgrave asjewish heroine HARRISBURG, PA, (AP) -Filming has starred at a ramshackle section of a Pennsylvania military camp for a comroversial television movie starring Vanessa Redgrave as a Jewish heroine. Miss Redgrave, who has supported the Palestine Liberation Organization, is cast as Fania Fenelon, who escaped execution at a Nazi death camp by j"oining a prison orchestra. Jewish groups and individuals in the United States and elsewhere, including Miss Fenelon, biaerly opposed the selection of Miss Redgrave for the film, "Playing for Time." But CBS refused to change its decision because of Miss Redgrave's political views. Tankers spread fumes; residents evacuate homes MISSISSAUGA, Ontario (AP) -Authorities began evacua­ting 100,000 residents from this townwestofTorontoyesterday as sickening fumes poured from burning tanker cars of a derailed train. One car was leaking deadly chlorine gas, officials said. Some 10,000 residents had been moved by mid-afternoon to high schools and shopping centers in the area. No injuries were reported. Flames flared from seven tank cars and threatened another that had ruptured and was leaking some chlorine gas, Ontario Attorney-General Roy McMurtry said. •Weathe-,··-.... Partly cloudy today through tomorrow. Chance of a few snow flurries late tonight and tommorrow. Highs around 40 both today and tomorrow. Lows tonight in the mid to upper 20s.  

 
3:30p.m. LECTURE "japan's world of work and industria enterprise." by robert j. ballon, chairman of socio-economi institute at sophia u. in tokyo. sponsored by n.d. college m business admmistration. open to the public. 6:-15 p.m. ROSARY daily at GROTTO. 7:10p.m. FILM "lola montes," WASHINGTON HALL. 8:00 p.m. LECTURE prof. j. jacquard, sculptor from the universitv of indiana, bloomington, will give an illustrated lecture on his work. ARCHITECTURE AUD. 8:00 p.m. COMEDY CLUB purdue calumet comedy club, performing skits and comedy routines. sponsored by student union academic commission. LIBRARY AUD. free admission. 9:00p.m. WSND call in program, "talk it up." speaker will be officer glear terry, director of n.d. security. phone 6400 or 742). 10-11 p.m. MEETING & DISCUSSION fellowship of christian athletes. DILLON CHAPEL.  

Monday, November 12, 19_79-page 2 
Kole to perform magic show featuring psychic phenotnena 
Internationally known illusion­ist Andre Kole will perform his two-hour "World of Illusion" Tuesday in Washington Hall at 8:00p.m. The performance will include Houdtni-like escapes and transcendental levitation. Kole will also discuss his first­hand investigation of the possi­bility of communication with the dead, the occult, the Bermu da Triangle mystery and other psychic phenomena from India and Egypt. 
Kole has achieved interna­tional fame through live perfor­mances to more than 76 million people in 7 3 countries through­out the world. He has reached millions more through televised pc;rformances in over 40 coun­tnes. 
''As an illusionist I do not waste my time trying to accom­plish that which is possible, but 
rather  I  concentrate  on  that  
which  is  impossible,"  Kole  
says.  

Kole is a recognized expert in the area ofpsychic research. At the request of Time magazine several years ago, he made a study of the "psychic sur­geion'' in the Phil!~pines ~!:>.0 
claimed to pc;rform l!liraculous_ 
Rotman to speak today 
Prof Brian Rotman of the University of Bristol and Cornell University will speak today at 4 p.m. in room 120 of Hayes-Healy on ''Zero, King Lear and Renaissance Abstrac­tion!' 
This lecture will deal with the shift from a medieval to a renaissance mode of abstrac­tion as it occurred in phil­osophy, economy, psychology and art. 
f-The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Pam Degnan Asst. Night Editors: Teri ~ichielutti, Randee J en­nmgs Copy Editor: Lynne Daley News Editor: Mark Rust Editonal Layout: Tina Ter­Jaak Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Micheline Santelle, Beth Willard, Marilyn Brod­erick, Cindy Jones, Paula Shea EMT: Terri Blazi Proofreader: Mike Onufrak SMC Day Editor: Lisa Stan­czak Ad Design: David Wood, Anne Fink Photographer: Chris Salvino Guest Appearances: Ryan "no longer hungover" V"er Berkmoes 
The Oburvtr [USPS • IZD] Ia published Monday tllrougll Frtay II· cept llurlng tum IIIII ncdlll ..... The Observer Ia pulllillllcl br till students of Natn Dlml _. 111111 Miry's Cllllgl. Subscripllllll nay Ill puRIIIstd tor S20 per year !Sll perIIIMittrl from The Observer. 1'.0. biX 
Q. Natn bame,lndillll 41i556. Slcllld 'lau ~· paid, Natn Dame, ln­dialll ' 
The Observer 11 1 member of till Aaeciatld Pras. All r•lilllh:tlen rlglltl lrl mtrvtd. 
operanons Without the use of medical instruments or anes­thetics. Subsequent to his on-the-scene investigation, Kole testified in court on behalf of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission in its attempt to stop the promotion of fraudu­
lent  psychic  healers  in  this  
country.  
Several years  ago, Kole  was  

challenged to examine the mir­acles of Jesus Christ from the standpoint of an illusionist and a skeptic to determine if the miracles of Christ could have been the work of a master magician. Kole says he made some discoveries then that changed the course of his life, and he will share some of his findings during his perfor­mance. 
Kole often appears as a special traveling representative for Campus Crusade for Christ International, and interdenom­inational Christian organization founded in 1951. , ­
Students to hold meeting 
The Students Concerned for Cambodia will hold an organ­izational meeting tomorrow night at 7 p.m. in the Nazz at LaFortune. All students who are interested in the Cambodian crisis are welcome. 
Quick Setvice at a Reasonab_le Ptice on all shoe tepalts zlppet tepaits and leathet tepalts 
We catty many styles of boots also, Converse tennis shoes 
Tony's Shoe Shop 

Unlvetsltg of Notte Dame I 283-1144 
' Hou~: 
ffion-Frl 8-5,
v I
r:.:.:..:.;--Sat 8-1 

MATH -SCIENCE 
Ask a Peace Corps volunteer why she teaches math and general science to high school students in Liberia, West Africa ... Ask another volunteer why he teaches biology and physics in the Pacific Islands. They'll probably say they want to help people, want to use their skills, travel, learn a new language or experience another culture. Ask them: 
REGISTER NOW AT PLACEMENT OFFICE 
FOR INTERVIEWS: 
FRI. NOV 16-NOTRE DAME 
NOV 15-ST MARY'S 
~­
~----------------------------------------------~ 
., 
~----------------~--­
The Observer 
.ND-ROTC completes Ranger training utilizing tactical skills 
by Sal Granata StaffReporter 
The Irish Ranger C()mpan~ (IRC) of the Notre Dame ROTC battalion completed their second fall semester Field Training Exercise on Saturday morning. 
The IRC is a special unit of Army ROTC cadets distinguish­ed by their black berets and noted for their motivation and 
tactical proficiency. Saturday, the company participated 10 joint maneuvers with members 
of the Navy's Marine Option 
Program. The Army cadets conducted a number of informa­tion-seeking reconnaissance/a­trois while the Marines acre as spoilers. 
The Cadets maneuvered in the woods Northeast of Stepan 
Center, navi6ating by compass field you never know how it and utilizing skills they had really is." 
previously kriow~ only through classroom expenence. 
Accprding to Captain Robert Ciemens, all the goals of the training were met. He said that the training exercise was a success since the students were given a chance to practice in the 
field what they learn on the blackboard. An important as­pe~t' of the op~rauon is. the tratts. of leadershtp esset;tttal to creatmg a good second heuten­ant ~swell as a good person. 
Interviews of the cadets pro­duced a consensus of the learn­
ing  _experience  dimension  of  
their training.  
John Plunkett,  a  junior from  

Holy Cross, said "although you can: study this material in the classroom, until you try it in the 
Betsy Spinelli, a veteran IRC member from Farley Hall said that she learned how to assem­ble and disassemble the M-16 rifle, a requirement at the Advance Camp all Army Cadets participate in between their junior and senior years. 
One freshman from Lewis was enthusiastic about the early morning mission. "I was surprised, 1 really enjoyed it. I thought it was going to be 
, rough. It wasn't easy but everyone heip· ., ' out and all the things we learned in the class­room jelled.'' As another cadet observed philosophically, "going out on on FTX makes you think how nice it would be if you never have to do this for real.'' 

, GREENSBORO, NC (AP)-­About 350 demonstrators with an honor guard carrying un­loaded rifles wheeled the cof­fins of five slain communist activists to their graves in a steady rain yesterday. Nearly 500 combat-equipped National Guardsmen, 250 state police and 175 local police lined the 11/z -mile parade ro11te. The parade in honor of the five persons killed last weekend in a "Death to the Klan" rally 
was delayed for about two hours as Communist Workers Party, sponsor of the march, argued over whether members of an honor guard could carry weapons. 
Cuy officials agreed to :allow an honor guard, seven men and three women, to carry unloaded rifles, a stipulatio~ they said they had made earher. 
With a "state of emer~ency" in effect, police obtatn•ed a blanket search warrant to stop and search any vehicle or individual in the Greensbo: · area. 
Some arrests were made just before the march began. Officers delivered a group of prisoners to the city jail but declined to say how many were arrested or where the arrests were made. A police spokes­man said, however, that the prisoners included sym­P<lthizers for the marchers and for the Ku Klux Klan. 
'Police had expected any­where from 2,000 to 5,000 people to line the parade route. 
The Communist Workers Party had urged sympathizers from around the country to come to Greensboro. 
"Avenge the murder of the CWP 5," read a poster circu­lated by the party. It pictured a man in overalls clubbing a Nazi with a rifle butt. 
Greensboro, a textile and tobacco town of 160,000 people that was the site of the first lunchcounter sit-ins in the 
(continued on page 4) 

Monday, November 12, 1979 -page 3 
ita~ eo find ·ilecorlla? " 
Go -• -. 
to J-t1or die Record, 'I!Dh,ose new specialty 
recordmart (thousands of collectors albums and cutouts) will open SOON at LOEWS Merchandise Mart 
· Next to bus station, downtown 
ATTENTION SEMESTER GRADUATES 
The Continued Growth of 
1------------'--Ultimaster----­has created an outstanding opportunity on the sales staff for a sales trainee. Initiallv, 
the position will require a period of training so as to fully prepare the individual in all facets of our industry and business. It is anticipated that this position will lead to sales representative position. 
Compensation includes excellent salary plus liberal fringe benefit package ... We are .located approx. 25 minutes southeast of 
South Bend. 
If you are an enthusiastic and energetic individual who is 
· looking for an outstanding opportunity for personal and professional growth, Please contact: MR. BRIAN BRADY* ULTIMASTER DIVISION* HOLIDAY RAMBLER CORP.* 65526 ST. RD. 19, WAKARUSA* INDIANA. 46573. (219) 862-4551. An equal opportunity 

emolover. 
' 
MARSON GRAPHICS 
Monday 
Tuesday 
November 12 
November 13 
11 am -7 pm 10 am -5 pm LaFortune Lobby 
, Collection of original etchings, woodcuts, lithographs, and serigraphs",,,,, by the following artists,________ 
Chagall Daumier . Faniin-Latour Maillol Rouault Whistler Baskin Coughlin O'Connor Kaczmarek Eggers 

Northern Indiana's.lar~est record and tape selectton , and concert ticket headquarters 
$1.00 OFF!! 
Any album 

_18,000 albums ana ta~ in stock . ND/SMC "student checks accepted for up to $20.00 over purchase amowit · Qpen 10 to 10, 7 days a week ........ · . River... City Recor~ ,,,, U.S:'311'iorth 
···;;•···-··-·············-· ca!}lpus 

-~----­ 
The Observer  Monday, November 12, 1979-page  
Buy Observer Ads!  NEW YORK (AP)-Exiled . WASHINGTON (AP) -Sen. Iranian politician Shahpour George McGovern called yes­ WASHINGTON (AP) -Ca fornia Gov. Edmund Brown .J  

 Bakhtiar, ousted when revol­terday for a moratorium of  urged Americans yesterday 

 utionary l'eader Ayatollah political debate over the seizure  walk and pray today "to she  
Ruhollah Khomeini seized of American hostages at the  the strength and unity of Am(:  
REMEMBER ROCKY'S!  power, predicts Americans held U.S. Embassy in Iran, saying hostage in Tehran will be the United States should speak  ican l'eople behind out Arne can citizens in Iran."  
PoliticalGFRANCO's'  released ''without blood, with-with one voice--and that must out hurt." be a calm one. The former prime minister The South Dakota Democrat.  Brown, a candidate for t Democratic nomination for l'r sident, also said the Untt  
ISIIJIDI...., East  was interviewed recently. by interviewed on CBS' "Face the  States should be prepared  
Comer Sample LW.L South lend • 287-5344 leaders  ABC-TV, which aired the Nation," heartily endorsed a results Sunday on its "Issues questioner's suggestion that  live without Iranian oil. And predicted it will be "ve  
TUESDAY  and Answers' program. candi~ates ~void the Iranian  difficult'' to continue diplorn  
ltalial ........ licllt. • Cup of Minestrone offer vtews Italian Meat Balla Homemade Saua.... Served over Mostocciofi, topped wit!, Rich Tomato Sauce and on Melted Mozzeralla Cheese  Bakhtiar said his feelings question unul the hostages are about the safe release was safe. based on his belief that the ''The fewer recQmmendations seiZure of the American we have now asto what course embassy and the hostages was shou~d _be followed, particularly "against the international trad­retahatton, the better off we'll ition of the Iranian people." all be," McGovern said.  tice relations with Iran after t present hostage situation resolved. Answering question on t NBC television prograJ "Meet the Press," Brown sa the I~anian crisis could be ''  
Vegetable of tile Day  "There is no government in "I would say to follow the  opportunity to wake up tl  
Toned Salad Italian Roll, and Buttee Iranian crisis  Iran," ht" said. "The/eople are administration's lead on this, excited, jobless, an the mob b_ecau_se it's such a d~lkate  nation, to recreate in ourselv a spirit of strenth and unity.'  
Italian Bread & Butter  are doing that. I am very sorry Sltuauon that we have to speak  Brown refused to critici  
ONLY $395  that Khomeini and other with one voice .... The admini­authority in Iran accept this stration under the circum­ President Carter's handling the Iranian situation or  
CATEIII8 FACIUTIES TO ACCctaATE 1..78  procedure." stances is doing the best it can, He also said a "military force (and) the less criticism, the less landing in Iran is not the best suggestions of alternative  suggest any alternatives exce his call, which he repeau three times in.the interview,£  
Entertainment Nightly in Our  way to settle down this dis­courses that come from others, pure." the better."  a national day of prayer ar walking.  
FLAPPER'S LOUNGE Double Bubble Every Weekday  Bakhtiar predicted the rule of McGovern also urged private Khomeini would soon end be-citizens, labor unions, students cause there is unrest in Iran and ' and other to stay calm and not because ''politically Mr. aggravate the situation. Any  ''I'm not going to offer tl, presidt>nt any sug~estion ~ long as American citizens al held captive and in danger 1  

 Khomeini is on very bad terms demonstration must be peace- their lives," Brown said. '  

 with everybody." ful, he said.  will support President Carter  
Wanted:  "I think Khomeini is going "I can certainly understand down and down. He has lost a the anger," he said. "I don't  attempt, whatever it may be, 1 secure the release of the Arne  
lot of people and the atmos­think anyone feels more of a  ican citizens."  

 ph ere of terror in Iran and some sense of outrage than I do ....  Brown said later he did 01  
TWO SENIOR CLASS  sort of hysteria in Iran," he "But what good does it do for said. us to take some precipitous,  intend to suggest there shoul be special demonstration <  
''I am not waiting for the fall violent action that would  marches opposing Iran. h  
TRIP CHAIRMEN  of Mr. Khomeini," Bakhtiar give us the satisfaction of added. "I have made my mind saying, 'well, we showed our  stead, he said, he was urgin citizens to take part in th  

 up I am going to fight .. .I am muscle,' if we ended up with  regularly scheduled Veterar  
fighting for liberty, indepen­the deaths of 61 innocent  Day parades and other even1  
Sign up with Sandy in Student  dence and democracy." Americans?"  around the country today.  

Activities Office ( 1st floor LaFortune) by Thursday Nov_. 15 at 5 pm 
Any questions? 
Call TOM BEHNEY at 1189 


• • . Campus crusades 
(continued from page I) 
Valentine cited research done at Carnegie 
Institute which concluded that employers were 
most frequently looking for ''character'' during 
intt"rviews. He added that the organization is 
''not a church but rather an organization 
designed to work alongside the church in 
influencing young adults.'' 
''There are so many leaders on this campus 
who are highly qualified academically, but it is 
imponant not only to have technical and 
academic skills but a person needs character as 
well," said Valentine. "We try to provide the 
right environment to build character.'' 
Campus Crusade for Christ holds annual 
Christmas conferences throughout the country. 
these conferences involve university students 
from around the country and include speakers, 
seminars and singing groups according to Krin 
Valentine, also a staff member. Announcement 
of a Conft"rence in Kalamazoo will be publicized 
by the campus chapter. 
The group has also invited Crusader illusionist 
AndreKoleto the Notre Dame campus Tuesday. 
Valentine said of the coming event ''It will be an 
opportunity to contac! 5QO people. At the 

---~---~---------------­
conclusion· of his show, Kole wJJI share ho, Christ changed his life." He added that KoJ was once asked to investigate the miracles q Jesus Christ and through his illusionist kno~ ledge "came to the conclusion that Jesus Chri~ was real, that he was who he said he was." 
1
The 50 or so members of the campus chapte share common reasons for their mvolvemet with the Crusade for Christ. Notre Dam student Beth Toomey said "everyone here feel the same way I do about Christ, and I a impressed that everything is presented in such normal way." Publicity Chairman for Andr KoJe,JeffBlackburn said, "I enjoy sharing wit people who believe as I do." 
''I came to the meetings to grow closer t Christ through what they can teach me," sai Rich Stevenson. Saint Mary's student Bet Shmecker said she attended "to share thing that I cannot share with some of my othe friends.'' 
Bright, the man behind the national movemen traces its origin to "a call from God that came t me while I was studying for a Greek examinatio at Fuller Seminary,'' according to a publishe interview in Clmstianity Today. 

(continued from page 3 
1960s, had been calm throug out the weekend. 
Fourteen white arrested in the aftermath of t shooting, which white men an.-J a hlark woma 
Killed at the scene we Sandra Smith, 29, a texti worker and labor organiz from Piedmont, S.C.; Jam Michael Waller, 37, a medic school graduate who had be working as a union organizer textile plants; Cesar Vince Cauce, 28, a Durham bospit worker; and William Sampso 31, ,a Greensboro labor org izer who had attended Harv Divinity School. 
Michael Roland Nathan, 33, Durham doctor, died two da later. 
The Observer Monday, November 12, 1979 -page 5 
Trbovich, Miller in race 
Mine workers to vote for 
was eased aside for Miller, who 
CHARLESTON, W. VA. at the time headed a vocal (AP)-To hear former United movement for improved black Mine Workers Vice Prc::sident lung benefits. Their feud did Mike Trbovich tell it, five:: years not become public, however, haven't changed things much in until some two years later. the UMW. Miller stripped Trvovich of 
Trbovich, who held the No. 2 all his duties and ordered him 
1
spot during union President to sign a sworn statement that Arnold Miller's first term, was he would not seek the union openly feuding with Miller presidency in 1977. some 21/z years after the.tr 1972 "He said that ifl would agree election. Miller charged not to run, and if I would Trbovich with planning to · support the administration on oppose him in the 1977 election. all policy decisions at board 
Last week the 56-year-old meetings, that I would be
1 
union chief accused his current permitted to run the safety: vice presdient, Sam Church, of division without interference. plotting to oust him from office 1 I refused to sign this and was with the help of the union's dismissed from my final official governing body, the Inter­function.'' national Executive Board. Despite his refusal to sign the 
"It's the identical problem," statement, Trvobich never chal­
1 
Trbovich said Friday in a tele­lenged Miller for the presi­phone interview from idency. In the 1977 campaign, 
1
Clarksville, P A., where he lives Miller was opposed by LeRoy 
in retirement. Patterson, a Kentucky strip 
"Sam Church is in the same miner,.. and Harry Patrick, position that I was in. I was Miller's secretary-treasurer doing a lot of work, a lot of during the 1972-77 term. travel, for the membership. "I decided if the man didn't But if someone within the union trust me, the hell with him," does something for the mem­1 Trbovich said. bership (Miller) gets mad about Miller and Church apparently it, because he wants all the got into an argument at an IEB credit." meeting in Marion, Ill., two 
The relationship between 1 weeks ago. At that same Miller and Trbovich began meeting, the board rejected deteriorating shortly after their Miller's nominees for union 
1
election. Trbovich had ex­safety director, F.L. Philyaw 
pected to lead the Miners for and David Lee Smith, respec­
Democracy reform ticket, but tively.
I 
I . ­
(continued from page 1) ot~er than Kennedy. 
_ _ . Fmally, students were asked 
1
Kennedy's policies wen: favor-who they felt would win the ed by 21 percent, while those of Presidential election. Kennedy. Baker received 11 J'ercent, , was favored by 63 percent, Reagan ) percent an Carter while Carter followed with 16 and Ford (a declared non-c.andi-, percent, Baker with 3 percent date) each garnered 3 percent. and Reagan wtth 1 percent. Other candtdares received only The most ardent supporters of one vote from the students. ' incumbent Carter were found 
Of the students who supported among the science majors pol­Kennedy's views, 69 percent of led. twenty-five percent oi
1 
these claimed they were una-these favored the president. ware of the candtdates' posi-The remainder of those polled tions on major issues. Seventy-stated that they didn't want any r.ine percent of those surveyed of the present candidates to wiri 
1
who said they were informed in the election. They felt that it this area supported candidates was too early to judge the 
/-las this student found the Chns Sah·i,wl 
.. ·... 
Then, last week, Miller lashed out at Church during a meeting in Charleston of the West Virginia chapter of CONPAC, the union's political arm. Miller said Church had been trying to spread dissent against him within the union's leadership and had attempted a secret meeting of the IEB to confront him. 
Church said he was "aston­ished" by Miller's accusations . and by the Union president's · decision to find someone else to I share his political ticket 1982. 
"Mr. Miller is a very sick man," Church said. 
"I don't think me or anyone ... else I've talked to would seekI Mr. Miller's ouster," he added. 
Like the public split between Miller and Trbovich, the feud between Miller and Church has apparently been building for months. It has become public about halfway through the officers' five year terms. 
Church was unwilling to die­cuss the problems he and Miller have been having. 
"I'm not going to air the union's problems before the media,'' Church told reporters. "If we've got problems, we'll solve them.'' 
Two-and-a-half years away from the union's Washington headquarters have made Trbovich less reticent. 
"Miller's afraid somebody is 
. . . Election 
candidates, and said that they hoped for a dark horse to enter later in the race. 


Monday thru Thursday nite from 12-1 
Featuring a new release album played in its entirety. Brought to you by Camelot Music in the Univ. Park Mall, where every 7.99 L.P. featured is offered to N.D. and S.M. C. for 5.99 with I.D. And each Wednesday nite a new album is · away, all from Camelot Music. 
·ON THURSDAY 
INOVEMBERIS'" iNOIFS, 
Give up cigarettes for just one day. You
·ANDS 
JUSt might give. ·em up for good. 
THE GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT. American Cancer Society . 

This space contributed by the publisher 
River City Recotds Ptesents... 
to '·· ...
AFREE .• , 
While 1,500 coupons last, get a free Big mac tm' coupon with every album, tape, blank tape or concert ticket purchased at River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North-3 miles North of campus! 
Big mac/ coupons will only be honored at fficDonald's®of Roseland, 
TM 
52665 U.S. 31 North-1mile ~orth of campus, and will be 
valid until November 16, 1979. 
River City Records 

·'Northern Indiana's Largest Sel~ction·' of Roseland 50970 U.S. 31 North 271-4242 52665 U.S. 31 North 277-0810 owner: Peter J. Kernan owner: Chuck Watson (N.D. '65) 
N.D. '75 
Monday, November 12, 1979-page 6 
Editorials 

P.O.BoxQ 
Emergency Relief 
Campaign for Cambodia 
Begins 
Dear Editor: 
On November 9, an ad-hoc committee, the Stude~ts Con­cerned for Cambod1a, was formed in view of the situation that: 
1) Cambodia is a disaster of immense magnitude and urgency; 2.25 million face star­vation within months. 
2) Cambodia is a uni_que instance of human suffenng, imminent starvation due to recent political strife. 
3} This disaster can be averted if massive human­itarian aid is forthcoming. 
The Students Concerned for Cambodia, empathizing with University president Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, believe that immediate action on behalf of Cambodia is a moral obliga­tion of this generation. Specif­ically we believe, as does Fr. Hesb~rgh, that a direct relief effort on the part of the Notre Dame student body has trem~n­dous potential to a1d Cambod1a. 
The Students Concerned for Cambodia is launching an emergency relief campaign t~ begin now and last unul Thanksgiving with all ~ollect~d monies going to Catholic Rehef Services. The CRS has proven itself very effective in dealing with this emergency. 
Among the fund-raising events planned ar~: . 
l) direct collections outstde dining halls on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday; 
2} a Clemson game conces­sion booth; 3)a schoolwide fast at Monday dinner, November _19. 
There will be an orgamza­tional meeting Tuesday, November 13 at 7:00PM in the Nazz for all' those willing to work on the campaign With 
Apology 
Due to a layout error, a column by Rosemary Mills, entitled ''A lesson in misman­agement and confusion,'' appeared in incorrect order on Fnday's editorial page. We apologize for this error. 
Students Cont:erned for Cambodia. 
We urge the student body to respond appropriately to all of our efforts in the next few days; to respond appropriately to the 
2.25 million Cambodians who face death; to respond approp­riately to an obligation for humanity. 
Students Concernedfor Cambodia 
Prisoner Requests Mail 
Dear Editor: 
My name is Freddy Heistand, I'm white and 32 years old. At the present time I am in the Southern Ohio Correctional Facility in Lucasville, Ohio. ~I am doing a life sentence here, and will spend many years in this prison until I am eligible for release. It gets very lonely here, especially since I don't get much mail. 
I am wondering if you would please print this letter in your school newspaper? I would love to hear from anyone who would care to write. And I would also enjoy getting pictures of those who write 1f they have any pictures they would care to send. 
Thank you for your time and I hope you do this favor for me. Hope I'll be hearing from some new friends soon. 
Freddy Heistand P.O. Box45699#144-853 Lucasvzlle, OH 45699 
New Security Services 
for Women 
Dear Editor: 
We would like to inform the ND-SMC community of the existence of SWAC (Social Work in Action Committee). Our purpose is to work with the security departments on both campuses to insure the safety of all students. We are focusing on three areas of concern: (1} off-campus emergency trans­portation, (2) improved security on the ND-SMC road, and (3) awareness of the existing secur­ity services. 
We would also like to inform all Notre·,-Dame women of a service which is in existence at Saint Mary's and now is avail­able at Notre Dame. If you are parking your car in any student parking lot-on campus an_d a~e alone or feel your secunty IS threatened, adhere to the fol­lowing procedure. (1) ~top at either gatehouse and mform them of the parking lot to which you will be going. (2) Proceed to the parking lot and keep your doors locked and headlights on. 
(3) Please wait in your car and a security guard will escort you to your dorm. We strongly encourage you to take advan­
tage  of this  service  for  your  
protection.  
We  would  appreciate  any  

comments about the effective­ness of this service. If you have any suggestions please contact: Donna Shannon, SMC-4868, P.O. Box 1090LE. 
S.W.A.C. 
Logan Center Children 
Need Tickets 
Dear Editor: 
It is that time of year again when we will hopefully take 300 kids from Logan Center and Big Brothers/Big Sisters to the Clemson football game. We need the help of the ND-SMC community, and ask that you donate your student football ticket so that these kids may get the chance to watch and exper­ience a Notre Dame football game. We will be collecting the uckets at dinner in the North and South dinin~ halls and at the Saint Mary s dining hall starting Tuesday, Nov. 13. 
The game itself means a lot to all the kids, with the chance to cheer for the Irish and meet the players afterward being a thrill they talk about for weeks. The trip to the football game is one of our most popular events and one that is looked forward to all year. The kids are the greatest fans in the world, whether the Irish are up or down. So if you wish to donate vour ticket, drop it off at dinner ·we will be extremely grateful. Once again, thank you for all your support. 
Walter Bankowski, EdLoughery ND I SMC Counczl tor the Retarded 
Heavy Mail 
Art Buchwald 
WASHINGTON--The mail I live in Key West and do a lot has been rather heavy this of Scuba diving off the coast of week. A lady in Manhattan Florida. For the past three writes: months I keep hearing a lot of Dear Mr. B., shoveling and digging when 
I just received my bank I'm under water. Is it possible statement from Manufacturers that the Russian Combat Bri­Hanover Trust Co. and have gade is di~ging a tunnel from been credited with $3 billion to Cuba to M1ami? If so, should I my account. My husband said notify President Carter? it couldn't be the bank's fault Lee Fentress because they don· t make er­rors. He said J must have Dear Lee, messed up my checkbook Please don't say anything. again. I went over every stub President Carter IS having e­and could not find a $3 billion nough trouble getting his SALT mistake. I found one for $17. 50 Treaty through. If Sen. Frank and another for $60, but none Church hears about the tunnel for the larger amoun• he'll demand that the President 
I am certain someone put the do something about it. $3 billion in my account by The Soviets will maintain that mistake. My question is, they're only building the tunnel should I notify the bank or keep as a training exerc1se. Carter the information to myself in will have to take their word for hopes that Manufacturers Trust it because he still doesn't know doesn't discover it? what the Soviet brigade is doing 
Please advise. in Cuba. Besides you're not 
Mrs. Paul Conway sure the tunnel is betng dug by the Russians. It could be our own CIA digging one to Havana 
Dear Mrs. Conway, to find out what is going on 
Your husband is correct in there. saying that large banks do not Sincerely, make mistakes. Therefore, it A.B. seems to me that you may have deposited $3 billion in your Dear Mr. B., checking account and forgot to I'm a marshmallow salesman keep the receipt. Or perhaps and I met this nice guy in a bar someone with the same name in Bloomington, Minn. He said deposited $3 billion in her he was the manager of the New account and you were credited York Yankees and he bought with it. me a drink. Then I offered him 
I'd advise you not to tell the a free marshmallow and he hit bank as they will get very upset me in the mouth. I had to have with you fq,r bothering them on 18 stitches on my lip. Now he such a minor matter. They will wants me to do a Ltte beer TV either ask you to move your commercial with him. What do account to another bank or will you think? bill you with a service charge Yours truly, for making them go into their Bloody Manny computers. 
I would leave the $3 billion in your account for six months.· If Dear Manny, you don't hear from Manufac­· As soon as your lip heals I'd turers Hanover by then you can do it. There is a lot m.'lre money start writing large checks on the to be made in selling beer than assumption that, even if the in toasting marshmallows_. But bank made such an unlikely tell him if he socks r.ou tn the error, they will be too embar­miJuth again, you wdl hit him rassed to admit it. over the head w .. i.· a beer 
Sincerely, bottle. 
A.B. A.B. 
(c) 1979, Los Angeles Times Dear Sir, Syndicate 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 


. 
----~ 
' .
. 




The Observer Monday, November 12, 1979-page 8 

CONCERTS WEST l'RI:.~EP.. T 
EAGLES 
THE LONG Rl1N 
TOUR 79 
n-m--. lTTTnrTrn nTml"!"fTTTT'l"m.-.-rmnnrnmmrrre 61 a o e • • ''a e • • a e a 
f)on Henley • Glenn Frey J)on Fl.,ldcr ·Joe ltalsh ~ri 111 othy B. sclnn ir 
Friday Nov. 16 8pm Notre Dame ACC All seats reserved front stage $12.50 
Rear Stage 10&$7.50 tickets on salt. ACC Box Office 9am to 5pm also usual ACC outlets and 
.. River City RecordsStores in So. Bend and Mishawaka 
Dear Mom and Dad, 
How are you? I'm fine, and the doctor says I'll feel even better when I get a few days' rest and a couple of home-cooked meals. But with the condition of my wallet, it looks like I'll have to hitchhike home for the holidays. . 
My roommate just made plans to go home Wlth 
Greyhound and says Greyhound is a great way 
to fight inflation because their fares are 
so reasonable. 
Greyhound even makes it possible for someone 
to prepay a ticket in one place so someone at 
another place can just pick up the ticket and 
come home. You can even send along a small cash 
advance with the ticket. Greyhound will take care 
of everything for just a small fee. Boy-is my 
roommatelucky. . 
Well, I have to run to pick up some more of that expensive medicine. I miss you all very much and flO~-to be home next weekend. 
' 
Love and kisses, 
Remnants of Peoples Temple campsite continue to haunt South African nation 
JONES TOWN; Guyana (AP) . 
A ye<~;r of searins weather and 
creepmg vegetauon has scour· 
ed away the signs of grisly 
horror, but the Peoples Temple 
deaths that shocked the world 
left an indelible mark on Guy· 
an~'s people, politics and repu· 
tattoo. 
Alleged government ties with 
cults have become a political 
issue as Guyana struggles with 
Jts worst economic and political 
crisis since gaining independ­
ence from Bntain in 1966. 
But 150 miles northwest of the 
capital and its crisis, this colony 
carved from the jungle sleeps 
serenely beneath the tropical 
sun. 
. The police officers and sold­
Iers who guard Jonestown and 
the farm worker~ who maintain 
it do..:e through the midday 
heat. "We're JUSt supposed to 
keep the grass down in the 
center," sa1d one. 
But grass grows through the rotting wooden walkway con· necting pans of the compound; sections have collapsed into drainage trenches underneath. 
Local officials complain it is ~ard to_ munster enough indiv· 1duals trom the superstitious local people to mamtain the compound. 
"People around here still call it Ghost Town," said Richard· Cruickshank, agricultural su­pervisors.'' 
Cruickshank said he had only 46 workers to maintain the Jonestown compound,, harvest crops of platains and cassava and tend the hundreds of pigs and chickens left by nearly 1,000 cultists. 
The main pavillion is restored ro how it may have looked before the Nov. 18 tragedy. A fresh layer of crushed seashells 
covers the dirt floor where more Temple. Ryan was in Guvana to 
than 900 bodies lay for nearly a investigate allegations: that 
week, bloating in the tropical Jones was keeping cult mem­
heat. bers in Jonestown against their 
Rows of benches face the will. 
framework of the stage where An initial preliminary inquiry 
the Rev. Jim Jones stood as he found probable cause for formal 
urged his followers forward to charges, but the inquiry has 
dnnk cyanide-laced Fla-Vor· ruled invalid on a legal techni-
Aid. cality. 
The main compound buildings The other cultist in Eteran, 
now house some of the farm Beikman is charged with mur· 
workers and soldiers. One of der in the deaths of Sharon 
the larger ones now bears the Amos, the cult's public rela­
sign ''Jonestown Police Sta· tions officer, and her three 
tion" and is home to police: Cpl. children. 
Abdool Inshan, who heads the Mrs. Amos and her children 
security detachment. had their throats slashed in the 
Bodies had also lain on the cult's Georgetown headquar· 
stage, whose planks were rip· ters shortly after reportedly 
ped up and hurncd, soldiers receiving a radio message from 
say. Th<.: ashes were buried Jonestown on the night the 
behind the pavillion, along with mass killings took place. 
topsoil soaked with fluid from Officials say Beikman is set for 
decomposing bodies. trial during the current court 
Last year, reporters with Rep. session which ends before 
Leo Ryan, 0-Calif., on his Christma~But his trial has been 
fact-finding mission to Jones-postponed at least rwice before. 
town had seen scores of male The government of Prime 
cultists sleeping on bunkbeds in Minister Forbes Burnham 
that building. Ryan, three seems unsure what to do with 
newsmen and a defecting cult the jungle site. 
member were killed at a nearby Chances of reactivating Jones· 
airstrip shortly before the mass town as an agricultural center 
poisoning began here. seem remote due to the super· 
The small cabins were long stition surrounding the place, 
ago strip_ped of valuables. officia)s say. 
Inshan said about 20 persons Nothmg has been done with 
were caught breaking into the suggestions that it be turned into 
storehouses where salvageable a penal colony or maintained 
items were locked up. He "as a curiosity, something like 
declined to speculate on whet· a museum or tourist attraction 
her the trespassers had been for its historical value," as 
lured by tales of money, gold or recommended by Health, Hous· 
jewels hidden at Jonestown. ing and Labor Minister Hamil· 
Immediately after the murder· ton Green. 
suicide, police recovered $1 Opposition political leaders 
million in cash--mostly in $100 still demand an impartial in­
bills ·-around the site. Two vestigation of the events at 
survivors said later in Chicago Jonestown and alleged ties 
that an additional $600,000 may between cult members and 
still be found. government officials. Burnham 
Rumors and stories about named Chief Justice Alfred 
buried wealth circulate occa-Crane to head a commission of 
sionally in Georgetown. One inquiry, but the commission has 
local journalist said many peo· yet to ~egin ~ork. . 
pie ~elieve a group _of ~emple The Jssue _1s a mwor <?ne loyalists who remam "1n ~ comBj.il'~'''' a "w,qrsenmg sect's Georgetown headquar.'-'~d?I'Omic and political picture. ters are waitmg for a chance to Production levels of rice, baux· look for the runmore treasure. itc and sugar··the P .;_\foreign Generally, however, there is e~change earners--an.: falling. little talk in Georgetown about Vwlent street clashes havf" Jonestown or the People Tern· broken out berween .police and pie. a nc;wly formed poliucal party Two cult member are being dedicated to Burnham's over­
held without bail in the capital thorown. 
awaiting legal action on charges People express resentment 
stemming from the deaths. ~hat Guyana has become known 
Larry Layton, 32, is the subject mternauonally as the site of the 
on a court of inqui1y in Geoge· Peoples Temple tragedy. 
town, which has accepted as "I met a Canadian or an 
evidence his year-old confes· American on the Great Wall of 
sion to the killings. ~hina,'' said a local journalist 
In his confession, made short-JUSt returned from a state· 
ly after the slayings, Layton SJ?onsored trip. ''When I told 
said he believed Ryan was h1m where I was from, he .;d, 
linked with the CIA ar;d ., i.!ld 'Oh yes, tha 's where the 
spread bad publicity abr,..~ the Jonestown thing happened." 
• • . Iran 
(continued fn , ?age 1) center" actively seek to over· thr<?w Khomeim's revolutionary for ca·1cer . eatment, were regime. merely ~xpr !led to another The Tehran embassy hostages country. "were arrested by the students, Even if the shah dies in the not by the government," Bani UnitedStateSor is expelled, Iran Sadr said, although they have would still hold a trial, "be-Khomeini's1 support for their cause it is the Americans we demands. want to judge for their mis-Foreign diplomats who saw deeds,·· he said. the hosta~es Saturday said they The Iranian revolutionaries appeared, in good health. blame the shah's U.S. allies in Informed sources in thouch pan for the crimes they say he · with diplomatic mediators in committed against the Iranian Tehran said Sunday there are a people during his 37-year reign. total of 98 hostages--62 Ameri-Thev contend, too, that the cans and 36 embassy employ­
U.S. 'Embassy in Tehran was ees of other nationalities, in­nothing more than a "spy eluding Indians and Pakistanis. 


The Observer Monday,, November 12, 1979 -page 
9 
Two ambitious :';;on·n Hall reszdents prepare for Screw-Your­Roommate Semz-Formal. fphoto by Cl.in'.s Salvino) 
Studen~~s express confusion over SlWC add/drop policy 
Demonstrations lead to vicious pranks; youth dies harassing Iranian student 
DENVER, (AP)-An Iranian chemistry student was held for questionmg yesterday after a 16-year-old youth was shot and killed and two companions were wounded after allegedly haras­sing the man, pol.ice said. 
The shooting outside Afshin Shariati's southwest . Denver apartment came after two days of demonstrations around Colorado related to Iranian students and the hostage sit­uation in Iran, but police would not speculate whether the shooting was connected with those protests. 
The dead youth, identified as Paul Nortiiky, died at the scene, officers said. His two compan­ions were identified as Steve Roane, 17, and Michael Lopez, 16, also of Denve:r. 
Shariati, 21, is a student at 
Loretto Heights College, major­
ing in chemtstry and petroleum 
engineering, said apartment 
manager Steve Gerhart, a 25­
year-old University of Denver 
graduate student. 
Police said no charges had 
... 
been filed against Shariati. 
A neighbor', Kelly Ryan, 21, said she was in bed "when I heard some people running and glass crashing. I heard them running across the top stairs and then down the stairs. Then I heard two shots. I figured somebody had been shot or there had been a party or something." 
'Help me, man. I've been shot.' 
Jim Castillo, 29, who lives in an adjacent house, said some­one began beating on his front door early yesterday. 
A young man, later identified as Lopez, stood bleeding on his doorstep, Castillo said. "Help me, man, I've been shot. Let me in," Castillo said the youth told him. 
"He said the Arabs had shot him," Castillo said. Costilla called police, who arrived about 

By Mary Leavitt 
Many Saint Mary's st~dents who express confusion about the policy for dropping courses may wait too long to begin the procedure. This delay could result in a permanent blemish on the student's record. 
For the first seven days that a student is enrollled in a class, the class may be dt-opped without the wilthdrawal being recorded. In this case, there is absolutely no evidence of a withdrawal on the student's record. . 
For the next five weeks, the student has the option of drop­ping a class and having a withdrawal appear on her re­cord. Permission is needed 
' from the teachf·r of the course to be dropped al[}d the Office of Academic Affairs or a doctor when the withdrawal is for reasons of poor health. After this, dropping a class becomes a more serious matter 
and special permission is need­ed. If permission is granted and the student has a passing grade in the course, a with­drawal appears on the student's record. If the student has a failing grade in the course, an F appears on the record although 
the F  is  not  added  into  her  
semester average.  
What many students  do  not  

realize is that there is no such thing as a withdrawal F. On a student's transcripts, the F. appears to the unknowing view­er as a final grade. The student must make it clear that this grade is not a final one. 
"If it looks hopeless for a student and she has absolutely no chance of passing a course, we will usually advise her to drop the course so she will have more time to devote to her other ' classes," said' Dr. Dorothy Feigl, chairman of the chemis try and physics department. "Otherwtse, it really is better to stick it out considering the consequences." 
· © Contiillental Restaurant Systems 1979 
COmmUNITY AOIONS 
ACORN needs organizers to work with low and moderate income fam~lies for political and economic justice in 19 states (AR, SD, TX, LA, 1N, MO, FL, CO, NV, PA, fA, OK, MI, AZ, NC, GA, CA SC, C1). Direct action on neighborhood deterioration, utility rates, taxes, health care, redlining, etc. Tangible results and enduring rewards -long hours, low 
Qay. Trainif!g provided. 
Contact Office of Volunteer Services for 
intervies Tuesday November 13 or write Ann 
Lassen, ACORN, 628 Baronne, New Orleans, 
LA 70113. (504) 523-1691. 
.. ,'Today 
-•l 
~ ,! k{:i;G~,ff .•\'
North 
Southland Plaj 
· 
% •I••• tf loin D-.e 
841 E. tnt.lll ~wotlEdison' at· IH. 13 
(219.)..291 .. 1 OQl 
(219) ~~-7222 
The most delicious, most sumptuous dinners our new menu could offer ... Luscious entrees come complete with salad, vegetable, bread, and your choice of baked potato, rice, ·or french fries ... Our modest prices complete this tasty picture • . • So add a ~ittle spice to y9ur dining. . 


DINNER FOi $5.45 
When you're really hungry, order a complete dinner with all the trimmings at a price that tastes as good as the food ...There'/; succulent prime .rib, &esh fish, and saucy teriyaki chicken . • .. l,t's more than a 
mouthful ... 
Sunday 
Noon to 4p.m. 
Mon. thru. Thurs. 
5p.m. to 7p.m. 

~===-=~~~ 
/ 
Th'ose tasty creations that11 tickle your palate and tantallze•your pocketbook ...Imagine the sirloin supreme, top sirloin covered with Monterey Jack cheese, sauteed mushrooms, onions and peppers ...Or juicy beef brochette, charbroiled sirloin bits marinated in a delicious burgundy sauce ...There's even a &esh catch of the day for seafood lovers ...They must be tried to be believed ... 
· 52885 u.s: 31 North · South 'end, 272-5478 
Phone lor reservations 
TM 


[continued from page II]' With Friedmann in the penalty•,' h t · k t h · ht aft
a at-nc or t e mg er 
al. • t. k · 1 box for elbowin~, Mtchigan: t k" pa fi t am
shot off the go te s s tc to g•ve ·a mg a ss rom e mate 
· h h 1 d went to work, an less than a. M r E d bl t"
the Ins t e ea · · u ray aves an as mg a 
d. hi minute later Laurion was beat-h h d b
shott1y thereafter, Mere 1t r s ot past w at seeme to e a 
again ignited the crowd when en ror the second time by Lcrg; screened Laurion. 
• • . Irish 
at 14:22. Thirty-nine se·conds With the score h d
he rnade .a~eat oIay to deflect 1 I . h d fi note e at
'~ h ti ater, ns e enseman Scott £ b h N D d
John Fne ann s s ot rom: our • ot otre ame an 
· · th Cameron was sent to the sinbin M" h" £ h fi al
the Iefit pomt mto e cage past• fi 1c tgan came out or t e m 
· F · k or holding, and Lerg picked up 1 ki h · 
an unexpectmg nc er. stanza oo ng to cas m on a 
===================================================================================================== Molarity Michael Molinelli 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 22 Withered 1 Wine city 23 Rise 5 Whirl 25 Seamstress 9 "Golden 27 "Rigoletto" 

Boy" play­creator 
wright 29 Stew eor Bay 14 Hit man 33 Ghostly 15 Of flying 36 Capri or 16 War or Man 
rights 38 Hebrid,es 
17 Mine island entrance 39 Rhone 18 Beautiful feeder 
woman 40 Dined 19 Olympics' 41 River of Brundage song 20 Paderewski 42 Venetian was one blind item 21 Near in 43 Came to Nice earth 
Saturday's Puzzle Solved: 
I T I ,. REG A 'IN 'I
R U D E E X A L T 0 B 0 E A T E N V I L L A M U S E a u o N s E r• o R sl!f~ s 

1-E L L. A U M E N. 
AMII~MOTIVATES 
D 0 NTS H A s• G E L A D A L I 
o• 
S E N E G A Lll B E D I 
B 
A N.U 
L N A I~ u T I F u L.B L EsT 
SAT E o• S 0 u••• 
P EA r• STI'I S H 
11112/79 
C 0 V Ell T I T L E A R I A All Rights Reserved 
© 1979 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 
A L E c• E S K E R T 0 L L BENT.SHOWN ENOL 
.... .......
~ 
RINK RIVERSIDE 
PRINTING, INC. 
209 EAST COlFAX AVE. I SOUTH BEN:>, IN 46617 
• FINE LITHOGRAPHY 
• COMMERCIAL PRINTING 
• INSTANT PRINTING
Jlotly 
See us about your resume 
Jatchet 
---------------------..--... 
!he_Purdue Calumet Comedy Club ,is performing in the Library A torium
with Special Guc.3ts 
on Bovem~r 18.
Point Blank 
The time of the 
performance la
Thutsday, Novembet 15 8:00pm 
8:00p.m.The club is performing
monls Civic Audltotlum 
skits and comed]r
South S.nd 
rou,ines. 
~I! S.ats R•a.tv•d 18.50 & S7.50 
is lpODIIrtd by the Rlv.r City R•cord• (U.S. 31 Nortt., W••wrn An., ffil1hawaka Av•. 

S'fUD••! v•JOB 
I Dvn•• Plaza In ffilchlgan City) 

44 Catch a 8 Clamor liner 9 Playwright 45 Moved on Sean • a runway 10 Spreading 47 Soothing the risks 
acid 11 Always 49 Moldings 12 Radial, 51 Extols for one 55 Nevada city 13 Cunning 57 Wings 24 Tunney or 
59 Alpine pool Rayburn 60 Colorful 26 Affliction fabric 28 Computer 61 Gristing knob place 30 Kind of bag 62 Peculiar: 31 Organic comb. form compound 63 Expunge 32 Sally or 64 Major or Ayn 
kitchen 33 Aide: abbr. 65 Bread spread 34 Casa room 66 Endures 35 Dupe 67 Tinted 37 Mother of 
68 Aerie Apollo 41 In-DOWN (troubled) 1 Yawning 43 Commotion 2 City of 46 Educes 
evil 48 Staggered 3 Sheer cloth 50 Crippled 4 Global 52 Dipper 
meddler 53 Essays 
5 Certain 54 Face: sl. trench 55 -avis digger 56 Letters in 
6 Equal Larissa 7 Charisma, 58 "Der -" in a way 60 -canto 

... -... · .........._._.. ... .. ........,._. ~ .. -._,. .............. -.. ,. ...... -...... ----;-­
mistake, but Notre Dame made the first one 49 seconds into the tert"od when Meredt"th was cal-ed for checking from behind . 
d E 
Eight secon slater, aves con­
nected on the Wolves 1courth 
'
powerplayaoal to regat"n the lead fior good. ,., On the play, naves 
~ 
was left all alone on the right 
edge of the crease and he 
slipped a pass from ever 
present Lerg into the exposed 
cage. For the remainder of the 
game, ir was all Fricker, as he stopped 15 shots in shutting out the Irish in the final stanza. Fricker made numerous glove saves on point blank shots, and left the Irish shaking their heads time after time. 
With 6:46 left in the contest, Baseotro scored an insurance goal to dampen Notre Dame's hopes for a comeback. Michi­gan added icing on the cake at 
19:35 with a short-handed em­
·pty net goal and skated off with a hard-fought, well-played win . 
• • . Vols 
[continued from page 12) 
touchdown would have given Notre Dame some added impe­tus to build on and come back in the third quauer." 
Instead the Volunteers added 
to their lead, and the defense 
held Notre Dame in check for 
the rest of tht .::arne. 
"We played the way we are capable of playing," said a jubilant Majors. ''It is a great day for Tennessee football be­cause we beat a team with great tradition and class. You couidn' r ask for anything better than that.'' 
"It was our inability to tackle and defend that hurt us mosr,'' Devine commented. "when they got to the _go~l line they scored and we d1dn t. We just couldn'1 slow them down at all." 

[continued from page 12) 
Tripucka (18 points, 11 re­bounds) and guards Rich Bran­ning (18 points) and Bill Hanz­lik (8 points, 9 rebounds). 
The remainder of Notre Dame's team made up the Blue squad. The game was run very informally, as players were shifted hetween the two squads 
•once the Greens had opened a 
116-poin  'i.rst· half lead.  
Fresh•  n forward Bill Varner  
was  d  .eadmg scorer for the  
Blue  rters.  He  scored  16  
points  1 addition to collecting  

;;ix rt-:. unds. Junior guard Stan Wilcox and freshman pivot fim Ar free, also starters for the Blue, scored 11 each . 
Sophu. :lore guard Mike Mitch­
ell and freshman cohort John Paxson 'lld not see action in the affair. \1itcheli is recovering from k:-rw surgery, while Pax­son cou:J be out for two weeks while resting a sprained ankle. 
as• 
BIIIIB 
:30-10:30 I •••DAYS 
........... . 
~-­

--------.­
The Observer SportsBoard 

indiana 45, Illinois 14 Indiana St. 33, NE Oklahoma 21 
Nliami, Ohio 35, Kent St. 8 Michigan St. 31, Minnesota 17 
,Football 
College Football Scores 
East 
Colgate 20, Buckwell 2 Cornell 24, Columbia 7 Dartmouth 24, Brown 10 Harvard 41, Penn 26 Holy Cross 20, Massachusetts 18 Lock Haven St. 42, Slippery Rock 26 Rutgers 20, Army 0 Syracuse 30. Navy 14 Temple 42, Akron 6 Yale 35, Princeton 10 
South 
Alabama 3, LSU 0 Auburn 14, Mississippi St. 3 Clemson 19, N. Carolina 10 E. Carolina 52, Richmond 10 Florida St. 27, S. Carolina 7 Furman 23, W. Carolina 14 Georgia 33. Florida 10 
Georgia Tech 21, Air Force 0 Kentucky 29, Vanderbilt 10 Memphis St. 10, Louisville 6 Penn St. 9. N. Carolina St. 7 Pittsburgh 24, W. Virginia 17 Tennessee 40, Notre Dame 18 Tulane 49, Mississippi 15 Virginia 20, Virginia Tech 18 VMI 13, Marshall 3 William & Mary 9, Appalachian St 0 
Midwest 
Bowling Green 31, S. Mississippi 27 
Missouri 18, Iowa St. 9 ~E Illinois 28, Toledo 10 Ohio U. 27, Cincinnati 7 Ohio St. 34, Iowa 7 Oklahoma 38, Kansas 0 Purdue 24, Michigan 21 iS. Illinois 22, Drake 21 Southern Meth. 34, Wichita St. 0 Tulsa 38, New Mexico St. 16 
W. Michigan 20, Ball St. 10 
Wisconsin 28. Northwestern 3 Southwest 
Arkansas 29, Baylor 20 Texas Christian 3, Texas Tech 3, tie Far West 
'california 45, Washington St. 13 New Mexico 24, Colorado St. 9 Oklahoma St. 21, Colorado 20 Oregon 16, Stanford 7 
:San Jose St. 32, Pacific U. 31 Southern Cal 24. Washington 17 UCLA 31. Arizona St. 28 Utah 35, Texas-EI Paso 0 
,Wyoming 17, Arkansas St. 14 
National Football League American Conference East W L T Pet. PF PA 
New England 7 4 0 .636 271 200 
Miami  7 4 0 .636 198 142  
N.Y. Jets  5 6 0 .455  233 263  
Buffalo  5 6 0 .455  233 263  
Buffalo  5 6 0 .455  214 197  
· Baltimore  4 7 0 .364 171  226  

Classifieds 
Notices 
Used l:look Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Rd. Niles. 683-2888 
Janie Byrne for Vice-President Commit­tee regrets to announce that it will•cease all official functions because of a general lack of interest. Our endorsed faux pas ticket remains Jerry & Janie because two flakes are better than one. As usual this is subject to change. Contact the Commit­tee for further details, including designer T-shirts. · 
Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 277·0296. 
IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Send $1.0~ f~ ~o3Q6-page"atalog of 
1 
collegi1tfr~earch. 10,250 topics listed.· 
1
Box 25097G, Los Angeles, California, 90025. (213)477-8226. 
Will do typing. Neat-accurate Call: 287-5162. 
COZMIK PRODUCTIONS has "The Humans"! Available now for dances & parties. Mick -8212. 
Morrissey Loan Fund student loans, $20­$200. One percent interest. basement of LaFortune. 11:30-12:30 M-F. 
GLENMARY HOME MISSIONERS are sponsoring 3 one-week volunteer pro­grams in the Appalachian area from Dec. 15-21; Dec. 27-Jan.1,1980, or Jan. 2-7, 1980. Stop in Volunteer Services, , LaFortune Center for more information. 
Lost &Fo~und 
Lost: Gold Ring w/Biack Stone. Coyle High School 1957. Extreme personal value. Reward. Please call Karen. 1#8163. 
Lost: Green American Congress notebook in the coat racks outside A-line. Please return the notes; the final is cumulative. Call Bob at 8777. 
Lost: Blue jacket with white ND insignia. At USC game. Gold watch was in pocket. If found call Joe at 233-6024. 
Lost: 21arge blue duffle bags, stolen from car at South Carolina game, containing clothes. Desperately needed. $ Reward. Call 284-4975. 
Lost: Tl-55 Calculator. Call Mark 1#1062. Reward. 
Lost: Gold link bracelet. Sentimental value. Reward offered-call Nancy 1#8034. 
Lost: Man's long, tan trenchcoat at Dillon Formal. Please call1576 with Info. 
1
Lost: Gold charm bracelet on campus on 
October 27th. Finder please contact Judy , Gates, 3003 Rexford Way, Louisville, Ky. ' 40205. Reward!' ! 
For Rent 
Furnished 4-6 bedroom house tor rent. Now or next semester. Walking distance to campus. Call 272-1729 after 5:00. 
Need amale to take over lease at Campus View. 3 lovely apartment mates. $100 a month. Call Pete 277-2723. 
Bedroom. Share kitchen, 2 bath.$75/ month & 1/3 utilities. Bus service. 233-2900. 
Wanted 
Badly need tickets to Soviets, & Clemson. Please call Bob at 283-1791. 
Hey New Jerseyans: Anyone going home for Thanksgiving? I have ride home. Need ride back out to SMC. Please call Angie 4-1-5465. 
Keenanites need ride to Milwaukee the 20th or 21st. Will pay$. Caii3281(Bob) or 3307 (robert). 
Need riders to Washington, D.C. on Nov. 16 for the weekend. Call Tim 288-2465. 
Waitress wanted. Age 21 & over. Oriental Restaurant 114 W. Ireland Rd. Apply in person 2-5 P.M. 
Buspersons and dishpersons needed ­male or female. Apply at the Carriage House 24460 Adams Road. 272-9220. 
Need ride to North Jersey area for break. Will share$$$. Brian 3596. 
Need a ride to and/or from Pittsburgh area over Thanksgiving break. Will share expenses. Please call Mark. #1062. 
Need ride to Minneapolis for Thanks­Giving. Please call Mary Ann at 4-1-4347. 
Riders needed to Omaha or any inter­mediate points. Leave Sun. Nov.18. Call 3173. 
"PAYING $10 MEN'S $5 WOMEN'S FOR CLASS RINGS. ANY CONDITION. WILL ARRANGE PICK-UP. PHONE TOLL-FREE 1-800-835-2246 ANYTIME." 
For Sale 
For sale: 1 United discount ticket. Call Bill at 283-7627 or 272-5492. 
One United discount ticket ($40 each). Call Joe 3598 
Comics at discount -new and old. DC, Marvel, Warren. Call 287-6920 evenings and weekends. 
Free Catalog: Avon jewelry, cosmetics, Christmas gifts for women, men, 'and children. 287-6920 evenings. · Central 
W L T Pet. PF P~l Pittsburgh 9 2 0 .819 294 160 Houston 8 3 0 .727 243 229 Cleveland 7 4 0 .636 259 253 Cincinnati 2 9 0 .182 235 274 
West San Diego 8 3 0 .727 270 197 Denver 8 3 0 .727 192 159 Oakland 6 5 0 .545 245 225 Seattle 5 6 0 .455 232 257 Kansas City 4 7 0 .364 160 182 National Conference Ea11t Dallas 8 2 0 .800 219 160 Washington 7 4 0 .636 208 191 Philadelphia 6 4 0 .600 184 187 
N.Y. Giants 5 6 0 455 186 198 St. Louis 3 8 0 .273 219 236 
Central Tampa Bay 8 3 0 .727 210 174 Chicago 6 5 0 .545 212 196 Green Bay 4 7 0 .364 171 210 Minnesota 4 7 0 .364 168 251 
· Detroit 1 10 0 .091 162 261 
West New Orleans 6 5 0 .545 245 225 Los Angeles 5 6 0 .455 202 212 Atlanta 4 7 0 .364 208 250 San Francisco 1 10 0 .091 206 301 
Sunday's Games Miami 19, Baltimore 0 Buffalo 14, New York Jets 10 Pittsburgh 30, Kansas City 3 Houston 31, Oakland 17 Washington 30, St. Louis 28 San Diego 26, Cincinnati 24 Tampa Bay 16, Detroit 14 Seattle 29, Cleveland 24 Chicago 27, Los Angeles 23 
FOR SALE: Two L78-15 belted snow tires. $50. Call Steve at 8661 or 1432. 
A Classic AR manual turntable with an Ortolan VMS20 Mkll cartridge for sale­BEST OFFER -Call AHAB at 8857. 
For Sale: 78 VW Bus Champagne Edition. C. B., auxiliary heater, priced to sell. Call 232-4060 after 5 pm, anytime weekends. 
Invest in yourself instead of a landlord! Excellent investment opportunities avail­able now in duplex and triplex real estate. Your tenants will make your mortgage payments while you live free. Call today to learn the rest of the advantages: Joyce Kevorkian 232-1193 or ERA -Equity Realty Assoc. 256-0263. 
1973 Plymouth Duster. Good condition, low mileage. Best offer call 288-9908 before 3. 
Selling United Airlines half fare coupon, $30.00. 7550, 272-7180. 
One United Airlines half price coupon for sale. Make an offer. 272-8857. 
For Sale: United Airlines 112 price coupon. Call Mike 3740. 
For Sale: 1/2 fare coupon. Best offer call 4-1-4161. 
One United Airlines coupon for sale. Call Barry at 2752. 
One United half fare coupon ($35). Call P.J. 3402 
Tickets 
Need 4 GA tix for Clemson. Call 277-4976. 
I need 2or 3 GA Clemson tickets. Please call Dave 8782. 
Need 2GA Clemson tix. Please help. Call 4-1-4280. 
Please sell me 4GA Clemson tickets. Call 277-5261. 
Need at least 4 GA and 4 student Clemson tickets. Call 3328. Please!! 
MONGOLIAN DOG SLED team crossing the country stopping in South Bend on the 17th. Need GA Clemson tickets & 1 case of Alpo. Mick -8212. 
Need 2-4 floor tickets for Eagles Concert. Please calt 232-4462 after 5:30. 
Desperately need several GA's for Clemson. Call 6i'47. 
Help! I need two Clemson GA's (to­gether). Call Dick 8304 any night between 11 and 12. 
Desperately need GA Clemson tix. Call Sean 3114. 
Monday, November 12, 1979-page li 
Green Bay 19, Minnesota 7 New Orleans 31, San Francisco 20 New York Giants 24, Atlanta 3 
Denver 45, New England 10 Monday's Game Philadelphia at Dallas, (N) ­
• • • Irish 
[continued from page 12] 
ex~ra-man opportunities. De­sptte numerous chances for both teams, the red lamp was not lit until the 19:26 mark of the period when Michigan cen­ter Dan Lerg, with Notre Dame's John Higgins off for boarding, beat goalie Dave -Laurion after receiving a pretty pass from freshman standout 
Bruno Baseotto. 
The Irish,. on the other hand, were contmually frustrated by Fricker. He played an out­standing game, shutting the door repeatedly on the Irish forwards, including several breakaway saves which left the crowd in amazement. 
In commenting on the loss after the game, Irish coach Lefty Smith ·summarized Michi­gan as being a very strong club, but added, "I think we're as good, we had the opportunities but we just couldn't cash in. That was the difference." 
Smith felt that the key to the loss was Fricker, saying, ''Their goaltender came up with a great performance," as was evident by his 37 saves for the night, many of which were nothing less than spectacular. 
After Baseotto/icked up his own .rebound an foked it past Launon at 2:31 o the second pe~iod, the Irish attack sudden­ly jelled as they ran off a string of four unanswered goals to gain their first lead of the game. Sophomore Dave Poulin opened the scoring for the Irish when he alertly snuck from behind the Michigan cage and stuffed the puck past a surpris­ed Fricker, 4:26 into the period, and the Irish were off and on their way. 
Two minutes later, Michalek knotted the score at rwo-apiece when he beat Fricker on a point-blank shot directly in front of the crease, as Meredith and Lucia combined for the assists in setting up the score. At 8:41 of the period, Meridith got i~ on the goal-scoring act as he ptcked up a loose puck in front of the net and wristed a 
[continued on page 101 
All classif!ed a~s must be.received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the Issue mwh1ch the ad IS run. The Oblervtr office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 
,Need 1 student ticket for Clemson. Contact John B. 8859. 
Needed: 10-12 Clemson Tix (any kind) for beautiful sisters & friends. Call 3579 or 3650. 
Wanted: GA tickets for any home games. Must be two or more together. call 287-3311 Danny-Joe 
Desperately need 2 GA tickets to Clemson! Please call 7831. 
Help!! Desperately need 2 GA Clemson tix!! Call Susan 4-1-4796 
I need student tickets to Clemson. Please call Ken at 1821. 
Need 1,2,3, or 4student or GA tickets for Clemson. Call Ed 1222. 
Clemson tix needed, GA or student. Call Dan 8479. 
DESPERATE! Need 2 GA Clemson tix. Big $$. Marie 4-1-4677 
CLEMSON GA's MANY NEEDED . GROUPS TOGETHER OR AT LEAST IN PAIRS; CALL COLLECT ANY DAY AFTER&:?? P.M. (716)-586-8690 
Clemson tickets (4) needed desperately­$$ call 1735 -Randy 
Help! Need 2 GA tix to Clemson game. Barb 7933. 
Need 1 student or GA ticket to Clemson. Call John 1840 
Help! Need 2 GA Clemson tix. Call (SMC) 5202 or 4708 
· Need 2GA Clemson tix. Please help! Call Kitty (SMC) 5413 
Need 3 Clemson student tix. Nick 233-6249 
Need up to 5 Clemson GA tix. Will pay big$$$. Please call Darcy 232-7376! 
Need 2 student tickets for Clemson. Call Kathy Patton at 7757 from 9-5 Monday­Friday or at home 233-2624 
I have a student basketball season ticket (bleacher). Make me an offer for it. Damian 1197. 
Personals 
Ryan, So sorry I misted your birthday. I hope It was happy! . 
Love, Margie 
SMC Sophomores: Are you interested in helping with SOPHOMORE PARENTS WEEKEND?? If so, join the Production Crew for the show. Call Anita (4280) Trish (4367), or Cathy (5719) and getmvolved! 
Happy 21st Monica! We think you are the greatest. Love and kisses, Mary and Eugene 
CAMPUS/NEW YORK is coming!!! 
CLASSIFIED ADS Payment: All classllleds must be pre­paid, either in person or through the mail. Deadline: All classified ads must be received by 1:00 P.M. the day prior to the issue in which the ad Is to be run. The Observer olice will accept classilieds Monday through Friday, 10:110 a.m. to 
5:110 p.m. 
Watch for CAMPUS/NEW YORK! 
Come enjoy an evening with Uvingston Taylor Wednesday, Nov. 14 
Mary Jane, We care about you and we love you. Love, US 
CREAM OF GOONEY??? 
Dearest Patti, I'm back in town and wondering why you haven't called. You know I love hearing from you. 
Love, Me 
SMC Sophomores: Are you Interested In helping with SOPHOMORE PARENTS WEEKEND?? II so, join the Production Crew lor the show. Call Anita (4280], Trish [4367], or Cathy [5719] and get involved! 
Ted, Happy Birthday, can't wait until you get to N.D. 
theN. D. girls 
Jeff, When are you goino to invite us over for chicken pot gooney??? 
KIZZY! Celebrate your 20th with 2:30a.m. skinny dio. (Close curtains -bring out canoes!) 
Love and K1sses, your Mexican buddies 
Dear Marianne: A most happy 21st birthday to you' Love from the family, Mom, Dad, Steve, Bob, Kathy, Patty. 
Today is the birthday of that sultan of sex himself --Wilhelm Dingier VIII. Well­wishers may express their adoration for his majesty by calling 8424. 
Is Art Sharkey the max, or what? 
Too bad my personals are so obvious, now I can't write anymore. 
COHN FOR ROOMMATE! 



l 
l 
-~ 
I 
I I 

S~orts 
Vols' emotional victory dampens ND bowl hopes 
Monday, November 12, 1979 -page 12 

by Mark Perry Sports Editor 
KNOXVILLE -For Notre Dame, Saturday's contest against Tennessee was to be another step towards a posstble post-season bowl bid. But for the Volunteers, playing before a record crowd of 86,489 in Neyland Stadium, the game meant much more. For coach Johnny Majors, the players, and the Tennessee fans, it was possibly the most imporrarn g~me in their 89-year football htsrory. 
Riding that emotional wave, the Vols took advantage of a series of Notre Dame mistakes to roll to a 40-18 victory. 
''Give Tennessee credit for playing a great game," praised Irish lmebacker Bob Crable. "They w(.·re up and we were tlar. for some reason. 
"People don't realize how big a pan emotion plays in football. Southern Cal could come in here and get beat if they were down. You've got co have the discipline to be ready every week. Not manv reams do." 
But emotion is not all that wins football games, as Notre Dame coach Dan Devine noted. ·'Tennessee won because they executed the fundamentals bet­ter than we did. When a team does that. it should be compli­mented. 
"We don't have any excuses whatsoever. We played a team that played bercer football than we d1d today. It's tough for all of us to face up to that.'' 
It appeared that the Irish had the upper hand early in the game, as they rolled 80 yards on ten plays on their first possession to grab a 6-0 lead. But Chuck Male's miss on the extra point try started a series of Irish miscues that would help the Vols roll up a 30-12 halftime lead. 
Tennessee also drove for a touchdown on their first pos­session, and Alan Duncan's extra poinr gave them a 7-6 lead. On Notre Dame's tlrst play after the kickoff. quarter­back Rustv LisLh threw a screen pass to 'fullback Ty Barber, good for 27 vards, but a holding plav brought the play back. Devine thought this might have been the turning point. 
''That would· have put us at midfield, but instead we were back at the 5." he noted. "We knew the way we were playing defensively, we had to keep up with them point for point. Then we dropped a pass that still would have got us our of that hole. 
''That was a series that we needed early to keep up. The game could have developed into an ~xc~~nge of points with that senes. 
Instead it was Tennessee that was scoring all the points, as freshman tailback Hubert Simpson ran for three second quarter touchdowns, and the Vols added a safety. 
The two-pointer occured after tailback Bernie Adell acciden­tally stepped out of bounds at Notre Dame's one-yard line on a Tennessee kickoff. Lisch attempted a handoff to fullback John Sweeney to get the Irish out of the hole. but the pair collided in the end zone, and Lisch was tackled bv Brian Ingram attempting to r~ll out of 
trouble. 
The Irish had an opportunity to get back within striking dis­tance late in the first half, but came up short. Vagas Fergu­son scored on a two-yard run to make the score 30-12 with four minutes left. Tennessee quarterback Jimmy Streater was injured on the next series and backup Dave Rudder fum­bled the ball into the arms of Steve Cichy on a scramble on 
his first play. 
A long pass by Lisch put the 
Irish within scoring range, and 
they drove down to the Vols' 
two. But an alert play by 
linebacker Chris Bolton kept 
Ferguson from reaching the 
end zone on fourth down. 
"We just had to stop them," Bolton noted. "They were challenging us. I was chasing the ball, and saw Ferguson moving to the left. I shed a block and stopped him." 
"Ir was a bie; defensive series for us," Ma1ors added. "A 
[continued on page 10] 
by Michael Olenik Sports Wn'ter 
Notre Dame's hockev team battled the Michigan Wolver­ines to a series split this past weekend at the ACC, giving the Irish a 3-3 Western Collegiate Hockey Association record while handing Michigan irs initial loss of the season. Both Saturday's 11-9 Irish win and Friday's 7-4 Wolverine triumph were characterized bv fast ska­ting and hard hitti-ng, as is evident by the fact that 31 goals were scored and 34 penalties were whistled in the series. 
On Saturday night, 3,852 fans were treated to a shootout as Notre Dame's offense exploded to hand Michigan its fi.rst loss of the season. Kevin Humphreys was the key factor in the victory, scoring a hat-trick while adding three assists for the Irish. Humphreys seemed pleased with the team's play, sratmg "It's got to be good for our confidence, especially after go­ing down by three. Splitting with the number one team is good, bur we were hoping for a sweep.'' 

Michigan opened the scoring in ~rand fashion, however, by registering three goals in the first 10 minutes against fresh­man nerminder Bob McNa­mara. 
The Irish finally beat Wolver­ine goalie Paul Fricker at the 
17:50 mark of the first period, when defenseman Jeff Brown­schidle deked his way past the Wolverine blueline before blasting a hard shot into the nets for an unassisted tally. 
The Wolves rook a 4-1 lead 
1:43 into the second period when Murrav Eaves lifted a shot into the Notre Dame twines. But after that score, the Irish exploded for four consecutive scores, rhree of which were on powerplays. Tom Michalek. Greg Meredith. Humphreys and Brownschidle all lit the red light in that spree. giving Notre Dame its tirst lead. 
Roger Bourne evened the score at 1'> :20 despite two beautiful initial saves by McNa­mara. Notre Dame struck back quickly, scoring two more goals before the period ended, and 
taking a 7-5 advantage into the 
final period. The last stanza proved to be a wide-open affair, with eight goals being scored by the two teams along with hard hitting and furious end-to-end action. At 4:56 Michalek beat Fricker with a shorthanded goal after picking up a missed shot from Humphreys to expand the Irish lead to three. Michigan retalia­ted less than a minute later on a score by John Olver, bur Kevin Humphreys, at 6:43, scored Notre Dame's second short­handed goal in less than two minutes, much to the delight of the vocal Irish fan~'. Dave Poulin increased the lead to 10-6 at 13:37; with assists going to Don Lucia and Bill Rothstein, as rhe fans sensed a r0ut. 
lt was nor to be, L ..-.c:ver, as Michigan erupted for three rallies in onlv 32 incredible seconds to tighten the score at 10-9 with four minutes to play. Bur Notre Dame's defense rose to the occasion and shut out the Wolverines for the rema10der ot play ro preserve the Irish win. In Friday night's action. Mich­igan's highly-toured powerplav unit lived up to irs reputation by cashing in on four of eight 
[wntinued on page 11] 
Greens win charity game 
by Paul Mu:'/..mey what we had intended to-.'' said Assistant \1>orts Editor Phelps. "We were playing in from of a crowd, and we also Approximat• 8700 fans turn­used the international rules that ed out last r '.!;tr to watch the we'll have to use on Thursday. Green ·qua.! post a 99-54 win "We tried to simulate things over the Blue squad in Notre that the Russians would do with Dame's annual inrrasquad their defenses, and execute our charity basketball game at the offense to heat their defenses.·' Athletic and Convocation Cen­Junior center Orlando Wool­ter. ridge led all scorers with 28 
The game was the first public points -with all but two of his appearance of the year for the 12 field goals coming on slam Irish. who open this Thursday dunks. A starter on the Green by hosting the Soviet Union squad, Woolridge also had nine National team. And Digger rebounds. Phelps, enteting his ninth year Woolridge was joined on the as coach of the Irish, used the Green squad by forwards Tracy intrasquad affair to prepare for Jackson (23 points) and Kelly the Soviets 
[continued on page 10]
"We definitely accomplished 
