
• • • Musicviews -page 9 


VOL. XIV, NO. 28 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1979 
Sec. Kreps resigns; cites personal reasons 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Juanita M. Kreps, the nanon's first female secretary of commerce, submitted her resignation to President Carter yesterday, a Commerce Department spokes­man said. 
Mrs. Kreps cited "personal, family reasons" for leaving the cabinet job, according to Commerce spokesman Ernest Lotito, who added: "She feels she has been away from her family for almost three years and at this time needs to be with them." 
He said that the White House planned to officially anounce today that Carter was accepting the resignation with regret. 
In Durham, N.C., Duke Chancellor A. ~enneth said that Mrs. Kreps would return to the University Nov. 1. She has been on leave from her job as a umversny vice president and economics professor. 
'She feels she has been away from her family 
for almost three years and at this time 
needs to be with them.' 

Mrs. Kreps has been seriously considering returning toIn Philly Durham since late June because of her husband's health problems, said a source, who asked for anonymity. That month, her husband, Dr. Clifton H. Kreps Jr., fired a .38 caliber revolver into his mouth, authorities said. A business 
Pope stresses moral standards. • • professor at the University of North Carolina, he had been 
released for the day from the psychiatric unit of Norh Carolina PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Pope homily of his Mass at Logan cheering him as they would a Memorial Hospital. John Paul II, welcomed Circle, he noted that Pqiladel­rock idol. Lotito said Kreps was now "fully recovered" and had been "home"yesterday to this hist­phia was the home of the At an unscheduled stoP · at spending time with his wife in Washington. oric city he had visited in the Declaration of Independence :Brooklyn's St. James Church. -Mrs. Kreps, who preferred to be known as the first economist 
.

1976 Bicentennial, admonished and said he found in the . . to be secretary ofcommerce, not just the first woman, informed
[continued on page 2)
Americans to follow the strict document "strong connections her staff of her decision yesterday. moral standards of their past. with basic, religious and Christ­
The pope had left a rainy ian values.'' New York and landed here in The pontiff also spoke of bright sunshine. A million or Christian values in regard to more turned out along Phila­sex, defending priestly celibacy 
delphia's streets and at an and emphasizing that sex was .• -· • as thousands cheer him on 
open-air Mass in Logan Circle. sinful outside marriage. Thousands were at Philadel­''There can be no true freedom PHILADELPHIA-The city that It was a day in the sun for the enormous number of people to 
phia International Airport as his without respect for the truth is often overshadowed by its Pope also, as early morning come out and see the Pope.Jet, "Shepherd I" touched regarding the nature of human neighbors to. the north (New showers gave way to a clear, .For the four and bne half mile down at 3:07 P.P. EDT. sexuality and marriage," he York) and south (Washington) crisp autumn afternoon--perfect motorcade up Broad street,One group of youngsters held said, adding that the traditional for a motorcade and outdoor
had its day in the sun yesterday both sides of the street were placards that formed the words rules apply to the ''whole of when Pope]ohn Paul II came to mass. jammed with spectators eight to ''Philadelfhia Welcomes Pope conjugal morality.'' 
Philadelp~ia. The weather induced an ten deep, many of whom hadJohn Pau II With Love" and been waiting since the earlywith a nod from Cardinal Jo_hn The voi.:es of hundreds of morning hours. 
Krol, they turned over the cards thousand" -some said one HPC defends liberal fund Those spectators were disap­to repeat the mess~ge in Polish. million -at the Mass echoed off pointed, however, because theOn the ride into the city, tens the Greek-columned museums motorcade drove along at a.
of thousands lined the streets. and libraries that make Logan speed much faster than theShouts of "Papa! Papa!" Circle the center of cultural life 
allocation for 79-80 year 
anticipated three to eight miles 
greeted ] ohn Paul in largely here. Balconies and pent­Italian South Philadelphia, and houses of luxury apartment per hour. The increased. speed balloons of papal gold and white buildinp nearby were jammed by Pat Too"!ey sponsibility to finance ·hall im­afforded the gallery only a splu drifted skyward. with onlookets. StaffReporter provements.'' second view of the Holy Father. 
Along Broad Street, flags ot The Po_pe had been scheduled Dorney disagreed strongly This speed was necessitated by Philadelphia's red,white, and to be dnven from the cathednif Hall President's Council with these complaints. She the late departure of the papal blue and yellow, Americas red, to a spot near the altar, Chairman Ellen Dorney respon­feels that the administration party from New York City. By white, and blue, Poland's red dominated by a huge white ded last night to criticism of the will not allot enough money for the time Shepherd I touched and white, and the gold and cross, but he instead walked the $15,000 allocation the 'IPC is. hall improvements, so student down at Philadelphia's Inter­white of the Vatican, fluttered distance of about two city receiving for the upcoming ·activity fees must be used. national Airport, the Pope was in the breeze. blocks, waving to the cheering year. Although the University spent 
almost an hour behind his 
''Philadelphia means brother­crowd. · This sum represented a 60 40,000 on hall improvements hectic schedule. 
ly love," the pope said on Thealarmhad been the subject percent increase over last last year, Dorney is skeptical The Pope made no statementarrival at the airport, referring of controversy. A suit aimed at year's allotment. Since most about any money being spent at the airport as he had into the city's nickname. making the Roman Catholic other student organizations feel this year. 
Boston and New York. Part ofMayor Frank Rizzo called the Church, and not the city, pay that they are receiving insuf­''We submitted a detailed the reason for this was thePope ''our source of joy -our for the $150,000 construction is ficient funds, this raise became proposal to the Board of Trus­relative youth of his audiencehope for the future" in his still undecided. a topic of controversy. tees last year,. but it went there. The grandstands werewelcome address. Many in the crowds had The Student Union, which JDowher·e , " she said. 
ftlled with parochial schoolAnd Gov. RiChard Thorn­waited for hours for the pontiff. requested $75,000 but received It has been reponed that children who sang a greeting to
bur~h, recalling that Pennsyl­He was running about an hour only $61,700, was especially Student Body Vice President vama was founded on the basis late when he arrived from New upset over the HPC allotment. Bill Vita and Director of Hous­the Pope. of religious freedom, freeted York. where he had spent much According to Student Union ing Fr. Micheal Meppen are Mter leaving the airport, the the pope as a "spiritua Penn­of his day with youth and had Director Tom Hamel, "The working on a plan for hall motorcade sped up Broad sylvaman," and said: "welcome been given blue Jeans, aT-shirt HPC definitely needs money, improvements, but both Vita Street to the Cathedral of St. home." and a guitar as gifts. but we feel that using $15,000 and Meppen were unavailable ·Peter and St. Paul. There, the 
The pope himself recalled his At New York's Madison of student activity fees for hall for comment. Pope entered the basilica, 1976 visit as archbishop of Square Garden, 19,000 Catholic improvements is an improper Dorney feels that because of where he was warmly received Krakow at the Cathedral ofSts. young people turned the pontiff use ·of these funds. We feel 
[continued on.page;~] [continued on page 3]
Peter and Paul. And m the mto John Paul Superstar by 'that it i~ the University's re­



The Observet 


, 
r 
r 
' r r 
' 


Placement Bureau 
~! 

HQn • f<nhHUIU'.J ..aw~c~, l nc. 8 in HF., U~ JUttO, 

X X H'f!UJ;o~ S~anda~d. Ulvhior; -~..L.!:!!ti.tl!d Tw';'hO•)log1ea B 1n 11:£, MJi., AJ., Comp S<-J. 
X X llotti!Wii'll l-nc:. l!;MD hi f.E. HE. Math. C0111p $ct. 
t X X X 

U,$, 1ndust.rU1 (:hftfAicda Co. iM"ihC%f. iJ it\ HE, !!, Met. 
i:i~]!.e.h....!f~r.at..:f!ll.2_~.1U,f!...S&Mti~A: li ~ft F~on, Ma'ifi Or othe-r dl1'1eipll11r.with t.otttputet tJAdi.Jr<n.iTultt.. (ll'lfOilllliltinnal a... utl~otus' 
Vlii!l.~!!Jtbi~~t Univ. OW:en Gt..ad~!.~~£!1001 <'f ~ .,IIi :L~ utl Uiiii'G;ipl :lne-B. 
X X X K 

T~l(.J~-~~ lnc. ii-1 Jn Cht, ME-ll in Ct, !li:~ tu.rth Sd, 
X 

1M~~ ~;-a:~h~~omcan:RF~htt~~~~ rrch Bf;. 
~'!,.....~odrtch..fS!!P.~.:, ~.!·-.~"' .~!.'2!!1? 
i!IM in ME, E~, Ch£, CE, Mf.In, Chlltll, t.{at,h, 
X 

fu!&h.!ta. Atr~.:n.tt JiOJD.PRfl.t._~.u.!!.4_F:!_ll~~-~~ 
(Note: Rli'quiretru.•nt.s in Pl.,<•~l!l~·n~ H.anufll u~rr for SpacP and (:omraunicat lonR Gro•,f•· R•'(}lltn•mentfl I iNtt~d below-Ar" for Cround ~y~r~l'l Group.) lloMD 11'1 ££ and Comp Sci. (t\t lli~h Tt•chnol"~Y f..l-l'ctNn-I<.B in ft.ad4f, SonaT, COI'IIputl!.l<~ Dt!!!pln.ys, !hH4l ProC'esstng., • Si&nal Pttoc-e$:J1n& a:~d COIJII'Liunlcatlon~-o. )•.ration: F'ull.ettDn, CA. C1th.enshitt r(•qultt:d. 
X X X )( 

~~:Sc~£~;~ ;:_:~~ll_~!~~ 
Bt-l in tE, HE, Clt fo5. Stt!-(ll P"oduction MAI'IIlt:ll"'llebt Trna;. Pto&ram. B ~n l.ib. Arts, BtJ><, Ad, Qnd Chftlti!Stty for Supe-rvisary Tfll&· l'roa,tan. CMdidaU:tt ~1-!o~)d have &trcms desir11 to work. in at:flt~t1 phnt llltttt lng with ~a:upervtsory rupon&ibiU[v for hQurh 1;11\J'loyus in O~ra-tioru> or Mdl1tenane& Whsi'd.n&Ull:l Uh:lVf!nJ.ty Ct'ad!J4le-~clwoJ at IJU$.ln~u. B ln all dbdplines, 
M01tut1 to Ce"Wij:ny fiM !n ~ •M Cb!. (Chanae r rom H.snunl) 
. ~ X 
X X 

lttutual of ~IN 'hr-k (HONY) B in 4Jli 4i~JCJ.ptine6. 
X X 

RoM and H!!j$ Ccni:Pany BH» in ChE .;:Jid Ctu:st, 
#$rican Air-l'th-er CoMPMt)' 8 .tn Mt, .CttE, til !£. 
X 
X 
X 

kll Stat~ Un.h'e-tatty. O&pt. Df Urban ~nd Rrt&~OMl Pl.lml1tn1. 
ll i.n Soc:l•l. $e:.tence•~ ~airJC!I:U., ATeh1t4!cjvn, Enginterin&• 
X. 
X 

Bh.ck & Veattrt. CDA.ault.i!fa ~naJ.neer• BM in ME, E£. t;:H!. CE, ~ wHh £turn O~t1ont Coalp S:i!:i. 
X 

I_.). ~V HoUe:y C.rbut~tQr Diviatcn af Colt ltul4!tdu
tr::~ V 

COJI<•llod. 
no lndU¥trt~s. lne. B in th!, ~t:., MI. MEIO, Che$t Acct. 
!l.t!Wl
Th..... 

t>tuwud Shp~~k Cot'pl)raUon­1 ift Ch£. 
X 
X 

ott AUtOMI!t.h: IUectrlc. Inc. "& 1n EK, Matb, toap Sci or Cflit!Jp. Engr. 
X 
X 

~~"1! ~!;:\ff;PU~· ~o~!4~l~~~~ w:,.~ !$ {(A;tns'trt,tCtiqn). 
• Nav!l Air l:tW6t'k fadlH:y a J111\£, MS• .££, MU(}. 
tit:Cladt!>' Hendricka6n 4 Co. 
1. Publt.~ A.eeount:lht· 1. B J.n Acet. Mal! wlth A<:e.t ltkard DT ~ooc:t~. ), frohadonal St.-ff .Acct.s. 
4. A.U b~;.at1DD.$. 5. Ctttunshtp r.-qulTed. 
clark E3t.d l'!!ent C01:11panr B in Acct. and M.E£ 
Conaco tnt. 
iH~ 
.X 
X 
X 
1C 

M tbtt Ccrpoution fUi jn Btl 4!t.fl:c-fplint!la for U~hnical mark&til'l& (QT Paua Vroce-tu'*ns bivi&hm and Genrral Syatftta. ()J.vhiOfl. Of.COO!ER GIWlS CNLY. NOTE Alll>IT!ON Of U~EkAJ, ARTS, H»A for HarhUn:s: (fAll attd J.Pl'tng $.radu•U•). liM in ChE, ~. tt. COttrp S~L Math. Ph)'!liet~ ChR.(f'td 1 & Sp} 
Grrut~>. 

lnoo.t.n )oWn.at('nlfJnt Cgan.t B tn Vin. I1BA wtth Fin bkArd or con~t:rn. 
X 
X 

Y~_f~;~;rppnt:jon 
B in Ub. Atttll sud B\la. Ad. 
)I 1 X 
X 

~~ii·~~:~t;r~~!!~.!-~1-.af~ 
~b.!&B{7.-li-P~".t.tt.~lly 

U.S. 31[Dlxiawayl North In Rosel1nd [Across from HoOday.lnn] 272-7433 Sun.-Thurs. 6A.M. to 9P.M. Fri. & Sat. 6a.m. ·10 p.m. 
-To Notre Dame 

To Interview Technical Students Who Are Interested In Environmental Control 
On Campus Interviews· October 8 
Long before the present energy crisis, Honeywell was actively involved in pioneering computer aided, environmental control systems for large -commercial, industrial and institutional buildings. At our Commercial Division in Arlington Heights, Illinois, we are embarked on bold new development programs to !llake prt::st::nt systems even more efficit::nt. We are also involved in apply1ng soph1st1cated technology to the des1gn of fire protection and security systems for commercial buildings_. We can offer an interesting and rewarding career to students who Will be graduating with BS or advanced Degrees in: 
Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering 
Our location in the Northwest suburbs of Chicago offers easy access to a wide variety of cultural, recreational _and educational activ.ity. Housi~g can be found in all styles and pnce ranges. If you are Interested m applying your knowledge to the solution of complex environmental concerns please meet our recruiter. If you are unable to meet with our recruiter. please send your resume for review. We are an equal opportunity employer/male & female 
Staffing Supervisor 

Commercial Division 1500 W. Dundee Road 
Arlington Heights, IL 60004 Honeywell 
~~-~ 
concessions to those under its young girls suffering from rna­control !aria. They said two or three in · This goes on despite a rc;c~nt their camp died of the disease Pol Pot declaration prom1smg each day. 

~~o' KJ\MM'S BR.,WER.V 

Free Admission 

100 Center 
Parking

700LWW-US33 
Entertainment
Mishawaka 

tion on high'' on the shadowy Pol Pot leadership which ruled the country for four years but still remains unknown to the av..::rage Cambodian. 
Farther to the south, along the Thai-Cambodian border, refug­ees who recently fled from Pol Pot control said large num­bers of civilians had been herded into a jungle area, sleeping on the rain-soaked ground and existing chiefly on roots, leaves and bamboo shoots. The penalty for attemp­ted escape was to be beaten to death with stakes "in order to save bullets," they said. 
''Malaria and starvation have probably killed off more of the Pol Pot people than the Viet­namese army," one Western diplomat said. ·Some analysts, who earlier predicted the guerrillas· would take advantage of monsoon rain to strike at the mechanized, road-bound Vietnamese, have 
. changed their opinions. From 
• all accounts the same waters , that hampered Vietnamese 
movement brought malaria and Pot's side. 
'" Ounbodia
Pots succumb to disease, hunger 
~.I\MJ¥)DL«AP)fi~g with many freedoms to those who 
There was no medicme in
malar1a and weak from hunger, join a united front against the 
sight, water was drunk right
from a muddy stream, and the 
only food was thin soup and
shreds o( veger::~hles.
recede and Vietnamese forces Samrin's regime was establish­
advance in western Cambodia. ed after invading Vietnamese 
A glimpse of life in an area and dissident Cambodians took 
still controlled'by the toppled over the capital last Jan. 7 and 
lently about their tasks. A few 
regime of Premier Pol Pot and drove out Pol Pot and his 
young soldiers armed with .AK­
talks with recent refugees forces. 
47 rifles looked at the visitors
reveal hunger, disease, savag-Crossing the Thai border this 
<>ullenly on first encounter.
ery and iron discipline even as week into a Pol Pot camp, 
They explained everything in
the movement may be prepar-reporters found a "hospital" 
terms of "angka"-"organiza:
ing its last stand. It makes no for female soldiers filled .with 


The Observer 
For trespassing 
Roemer proposes fines 
by Laura Vasquez for actions they think would by climbing the sideiS of building~, effective in preventing the windows, fire escapes, 
Dean of Students James property .an~ bodily damage balconies, etc., ~hould be Roemer has issued a directive from contmumg. prohibited. He cited criminal proposal for next fall which . ' 'All I want to do is make sure court fines for trespassing as would provide specific financial people don't get hurt,'' Roemer approximately $80.00. fines should Notre Dame said. He emphasized that "I'm reactmg to two broken students "trespass" on Notre although he felt the raids were · verne~ rae," . said Roemer, Dame or Saint Mary's ''_nonsense'', the directive is referrm~ t~ the ~eptember 2.6t~ buildings. This proposal is in aimed toward preventing panty raid m which Ken Ohishi response to the trespassing, injuries. fell from the second floor of vandalism and injuries which "I have gone on a number of Regina Hall. "It's amazing to result from annual panty raids.· occasions and have seen me that it hasn't haepened 
Roemer has approached Bill students climb up the sides of before. After drinking four or Roche, student boay president, the buildings two and three five beers, the chant starts up ] ames O'Hare, student judicial floors. They climb on roofs at and these students march off coordinator, and Ellen Dorney, nisht, on balconies, and every-and start scaling up the sides of chairperson for the Hall thmg is over. concrete patios buildings. It's a pretty risky President's Council. The dean and sidewalks," Roemer said. thing to do." has asked these student leaders Roemer suggested that The traditional panty raid 
=========~=============== involves a rallying of the
freshmen males to the women's dorms. As one student said,
Arabia warns of oil price hike 
. ''The Notre Dame girls usually pour water on the guys, so they go on to Saint Mary's." The
if dollar devalues yet further 
girls then throw their under­wear, which provide their
'BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) v~il prices and supplies if other
1 names and phone numbers,
Saudi Arabia's finance.mihist-\:Issues of importance to under­
from the windows. Sometimes
er issued a stern warning developed countries also were ~ 
windows are broken when the
yesterday that unless the de-dealt with. Abalkhail did say in 
students try to attract the
cline in the dollar is halted, his his speech that the "transfer of 
attention of the residents.
government may take action technology'' should ~e included 
''Common sense is what is
that could drive the price of oil in any such dialogue. 
l
called for," Bill Roche said. "I ,
up further. In issuing his warning, Abalk­
know of several instances of 
,'It would be naive to pretend hail echoed concerns of many 
guys hurting their backs and
that a continuous erosion of our other delegations here that a 
breaking arms because they
financial resources, through in-new period of. noil in foreign 
insist on climbing the
flation and exchange deprecia-exchange markets may be at 
buildings, and for what?" 
tion, could not evoke reac-hapd. 
Roche doesn't see any
tions," Finance Minister While Abalkhail did not sped-
urgency in the proposed
Sheikh Mohamed Abalkhail fy what action Saudi Arabia 
directive, since the next panty
told a meeting here of the might take, it probably would 
raid isn't until next fall.
International Monetary Fund be either to support another,
Bzll Kresse, Genreal Chairman of the Mock Republican However, he and the two other
and World Bank. Saudi Arabia, hike in oil prices, or to switch to 
Convention, runs an organizational meeting. The convention student representatives will
the world's largest oil exporter, pricing oil in a mix-or "bas­is scheduled for March 3-6 this year. fphoto by Rick is considered a moderate on ket" -of different currencies meet and discuss the proposed 
Dohring]. directive in the near future.
prices, which now average rather than just the dollar. about $23.50 a barrel. But Abalkhail also said Saudi.r._._.·'. Arabia is prepared to partici-" pate in a consumer-producer
• • • HPC 
dialogue on oil prices and supply, which is something the United States has long wanted. "Most Jeople's activities are A U.S. official, informed of the
[continued from page 1] 
centere around the dorms. So minister's speech, said the the new party room policy, many balls need a lot of things, matter would be explored fur­more money was necessary for and the money won't come from ther with Saudi Arabia. "I .. hall improvements this year. anywhere else," she comment-think it's a new initiative," 
ed. added Richard Cooper, the U.S. 
Dorney considers Student undersecret~ of state for Union criticisms of her budget economic affa1ts. especially unfair. In Vienna, the president of 
''I think the Student Union will OPEC warned at a top-level run just fine with what they seminar on future energy mar­
have," she said. "Some money kets that a failure to solve the could be taken out of compli-e~ergy shortage might _lead to a mentary tickets." th1rd world war ovet od sup-
Although Dorney could appeal plies. for a higher allocation, she said· "Ifthere is another world war, 
• • • Pope 
In the time rema(ning~:cy·~·u could be a
[continued from page 1] she did not plan to do so it will be over petroleum," said 
l
valuable person. For further information
because so many other organi-Mana Saeed al Otaiba, current
by -an overflow audience. on becoming a Holy Cross priest write
zations need money. president of the oil-exporting today: 1.
His appreciation of the re­According to Student Body group.
sponse was obvious. Rev. Andre ·Leveille, C.S.C.
President Bill Roche, the HPC At the seminar, other OPEC
"In your warm welcome to Box 541 
ts not guaranteed $15,000. All leaders said there will be a Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
me, I know that you want to allotments will be reviewed at large and permanent oil short­honor Christ Who I represent,'' 
the next Board of Commission-age within the· decade if both Name ------~,-­
said John Paul II. · 
ers meeting. consuming and producing na-StreetAfter making a brief address 
' 'Allocation is a two-step pro-tions do not take preventiveand leading the crowd in song, cess," Roche stated. "It measures. , City----------­

the Pope retired to the rectory wouldn't be an accountable Saudi Arabia has said in the • !il.tDt... • .,.,ft ,...ft..... ' where he had a bite to eat, and process if we did it once." past it would sit down to discuss . ·• relaxed for a few moments. He then donned his vest­
,---------------------------------~
ments, left the rectory, and ascended the 30-ft. high plat­
l"" ~~~~ WAlnr8 'lrG'IJa 'I form in Logan Circle. It was there that he celebrated rnass 
I~~~ ~ UG~··i GI.'V.
for a crowd estimated at over one million people, many of 
I ·~ I
whom spilled out onto the Benjamin Franklin Parkway. The Pope's major address of the day was during the sermon 
I •aa~z of the mass. Using Phila­delphia's role in America's quest for ipdependence as a 
I '\ltll G&R &GGGJIUIIO•a~ 3tarting point, the Pope des­cribed the need for proper 
oa altlRRIIm •aa:rae
moral restraint, especially in a free country. 

ICallPete Cannon at 1735 or 289-0639 
[continued on page .5 J 

..................l.l······------------------~·----­
The Observer Thursaay,-October 4, 1979-=-page 4 

t
, 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r r 
~ 
f 
r 
! ~ 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
CA health officials discover three contaminated pools 
SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) Health offtcialt, warned by a bizarre anonymou• letter, taid yester· day that hundreds of people may have been cxpoaed to a 11u"pe<.:ted cancer-cau8ing lhc:mk;al deliberately dumped iu three 11wimming pool1. 
l'nu ell uf Silvcx, a powerful hrrhiddc-1 and the 'hcmical l,41>, wnich wntaim1 the ttU'IJ>t'«'led (..an.inugen dioxin, wt'rt' dil'ln•vNt'ti Jur wr.ek in a ponl Iii Oukwood GRrtirn·.INorth, u 1,000-unit 'omplc:JC in west Si''l ) ""'t'. l'uc-11day, similar '" uc rfll we-re-found in two pooh1 AI Oukwood Garden"' South, a 
oR;o~oo·1

BA ER & HAIR STYLE SHOP. 1437 N. IronwOOd Dr South Rend 277-ooi 5 
·.Sue, Rnthie. Kim Armando--stylist .non-w•d-ftl 8-5a30 
tu•a-thuta 8-8 pm aot 8-2 
j 

by appt. only at-no appt. n••d•d 
Student Activi Programming Hoard Movie Series presents 


\~ ~~.· 

, ...., • ll1-.t H~~ II \\IMtll'lll\:'­
~~~~$it 
[HI 1\lllll\ oil\ lo" .. ,.,_.,, (i) 
Thursday & Friday ·October 4&5 ·7:00pm and 1O:OOp 
Carroll Hall (SMC) 
Admission $1.00 
780-unit complex about a mile away. 
So far nobody has reported ill effewt from swimming in the contaminated water. 
Both apartment complexes are owned by R&B Enterprises, but official11 said they did not know why the two were chosen br the pool poisoner. Police said an 
•nveHtigation had turned up nothing. 
In a letter opening with the phraNe"DayH of Orange," the apartment manager at the Norrh mmplex and the SanJose M<"rcury News were warned rha1 ch<"micals had baen placed in 1he-pools. 
''This deed is demo to un· namrd regularory agency of my wltrrc-wi1 hal to force justice from the-m. Will name when 'ltrir inac 1 ion condemns more,'' thr unsigne-d letter said in part. 
Bill Maprs, a Santa Clara ( :ounty public health engineer, said sample-s from the pools showe-d thar a 41 ,000-gallon SPA mnrainc-d .o.n pans per million of Silvc-x and.044 of 2,41>. The-main pool, 71,000 J.:allons, < on1ainc-d lower levels of' Silvc-x only, while-the pool at 1hr North lornpkx contained 
I0. I pa1ts pe-r million of Silvex and 0.1 of 2,41>. 
Mape-s said the-ronrc-ntrations wrrr 11111 krhal, but regional apanmc-111 manag<"r Killian Byrne-warn<"d anyon<" who mi~ltr have-us<"d th<" pools to srr 11 pltysi<·ian as soon as 
!po~sibk. 
N.D. grad 
Lewis to speak 
Aubre-y C. Le-wis, vic<" pr<"si­dc-nt for Srnarity and Adminis­trutivc-Srrvic<"s for thc-Wool­worth-Wooko Division of F.W. Woolworth l·o., will spf'ak at 7:.\0 p.m. toni~hr At th<" Hay<"s· ll<"uly Auditorium. 
Le-wis is 11 1')')8 Notre" Dam<" ttruduutC", and during_ his time he-rr he-hC"ntmr thr first black 1\l be-dt"rtt"d l·aptuin of an auhlc-til· tr11m · th<" track team. 
'He-ulso was starting left hnlf. huc:k for tht" football team for thC' }l)')'), '')6, and '')7 seasons. I k wus numc-d to the AII-Amet'· inm squud durin~ his senior 
• \'("ltr. 
·Afte-r J:nlduution.l.t"wisservr-d 1ts un 1· . B .I. 11gent\ high school trndtc-r, atnd board mr-mbr-r of the-NMthc-ast RC'gionnl Cabinr-t \lf thc-Bll)' Srouts of Americn, amd 1tlso sr-rves as a mC'mbr-r of rh:u gnlu·(,'s naHi\mal communi­\·,u i\li\S rommittee. 
DONT 
GRADUATE 
without talking to the Hughes Recruiter visiting your campus soon. 
Contact your placement office for Interview dates. 
1 HUGHES:
' . 
~------------------J
~·--"1 ........
~ 
AN EQUAl. Of'f'ORT\JNITY EMPlOYER Mlf 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska (Ar, 
Alaska is a gold-proud state 
whc.-rc the.-nugget is as much a 
symbol as the Northern Lights 
and your next door neighbor 
may spC'nd his summers work­
ing on a claim. 
But e-ve-n with today's sky· 
rorkC'ting price.;, Alaska's gold 
production has dwindled to a 
tricklt>. This year's estimated 
output is only about one-tenth 
of the-amount mined in 1941. 
.J.P. Tangen,. president .of. the 
Alaska Mintng AssoCiation, 
said thr-price-incr~asc-has only 
··give-n miners an opportunity 
to se-ll off some of the gold they 
have.-accumulated in the past 
se-ve-ral years at a reasonable 
profit for a change." 
Tht>rc-is no denying there has 
bec-n an upswing in production 
sim·c.-the-lean years of Alaska's 
"gold depressiOn." 
Mining expe-rts estimate gold 
productwn m the early 1970's 
hud drllpped ro barely 10,000 to 
12.000 ounces per year. This )'C'<U, Dr. Ernest Wolff of the llniYersitY of Alaska's Mineral lndustrr · Re-search Lab said prl1durtion could be as high as 
100.000 ounces, worth roughly $-tO million at today's prices. 
· T d sar 20 percent of the miners out the-re struck it rich," \'\'oltl said. "Another 40 per· re-nt arc-making a real good living.·· 
St,me Alaskans look hopefully at the-increase for signs of a new gllld rush. But others rare it as stricti}· bush league-a far cry fr<>m the days when 20,000 mmers and adventurers swarmeo Nome's beaches at the tum of the century. and fonunes were made in a matter of dars. 
"There is a tremendous in­«:~st in gold in Alaska as there is any'Where else," said Tuckey Hayes, who has been involved in gold mining for the past six years. "But the expertise of the large mining companies is not present due to the federal lands situation. They're ~Juc­tant to make large inve-st­ments." 
A,. for smaller operations, 
h·~.s put some miners back to 
work and made their work more 
profitable "but there are mines 
failing every day." He said this 
frequently happens because 
miners can't get financing for 
their operations. 
There are only 300 to 400 
heavy equipment operations in 
Alaska, many run by families or 
individuals with a handful of 
partners. 
Alaska gold operations never recovered from government-set gold prices and World War II, when the government declared gold mining a non-essential industry! Tangen said this shut many mmes down. 
Tangen said gold mining has always been more difficult in Alaska due to sparse popula­tion, Jack of roads and rail­roads, and the distances miners must travel to their claims. Tan~en said in most cases, minmg simply ceased to be profitable. 
Wolff estimates gold produc· tion costs have gone up ten times since the official price was set at $35 an ounce in the J930. 
Federal land withdrawals have further complicated things. When Congress failed to pass a bill setting aside Alaska park and wilderness areas last year, President Carte.r and In· terior Secretary Cecil Andrus froze 110 million acres to pro­teet wilderness areas. 
Tangen said some of the land had already been slated for strict ban against mining, but prospecting was to be allowed on 40 million acres involved. 
'The numbers are not nearly so important ~ wh~,re the l~d is," Tangen sa.td. New wtth­drawals ha~e significantly more sting than the original proe<;>~ since most of the 40 million acres included vast mineral 
1 

supplies." front. 
Mmers complain that only Members may submit as large corporations can afford to many slogans and/or designs pay for environmen~ impact as they WISh. Winners in each studies and reclamat:ton plans category ~t a free T-sbin. now required for claims within Mail entnes to KeUy Havens, federal wilderness areas-and computing center, or put them they may wind up l?Sing ~-in her mailbox in rm. 11~ of the their claims over the years. 
Dredging operations take place only during the summer when streams and rivers thaw. Many miners work at other jobs during the winter, putting money into their summer min­ing the way others would make payments to a pension plan or savings account. For some, mining is their major occupa­tion, supplemented by trapping in the winter. 
There is no estimate on the number of newcomers mining in Alaska this year, but they have a tough job cut out for them. 
''A lot of knowledge which existed in the 1940s was essen­tially lost,'' said Alaska Mining Association Executive Director, Chuck Hawley. ''A lot of people who are fairly new coming in will make mistakes for a year or so before they figure out how to do it." 
And he added that some may not last the year. 

Skydivers 
sponsor 

slogan contest 
The Notre Dame Skydiving Club is now taking entries for its T-shirr slogan-design comest. The club wants to make up an informal T -shin bearing a design on rhe back and a catchy slogan on the 
-;, .Ha...;.ye-s-•sa.a···d~·.tbe-.:pnce~·_increas ..... .. '!"'.~--,~-·~·'~.~
.....;,;;~e~~th::in;::g:....;th;;,;ey~;ba.ve-~m~vc:s-ted--m co•m~p~u"'tin•g-c~e·nt•e•r•.~ 
r -..,.).. I_ ~ "' • 
r 
--------------------~----------------,
--------------~-------~---­
-------~ 
The Observer 


The Notre Dame -Saint Mary's Theatre wzll stage Hamlet in Washington Hall on Oct. 5, 6, 11, 12, and 13. [photo by Rick Dohring]. 
Regarding Russians 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Many people believe generals and admirals always urge blunt military responses to end a diplomatic impasse, but sour­ces say U.S. defense officials concurred with the modest measures adopted to deal with the Soviet troo.Ps in Cuba. 
From a milttary standpoint, the moves announced by Pres­dent Carter essentially preserve the "status quo" in Cuba -the status of the Soviet troops will not change. Pentagon sources said this situation was endorsed by Carter's military advisers. 
• The sources would only dis­
cuss  the  decision-making  on  
condition  that  they  not  be  
identified by name.  
"Clearly,  this  was  not  the  

kind of sttuation where you'd think of using force," said on member of the small group who helped eut tog.ether a reported 30/osstble military, economic an diplomatic options for Car­ter's consideration. 
While this adviser would not discuss speciftc options, he indicated that on the military side they involved largely a set of demonstnttions and exer­cises. that would point up U.S. capacity to marshal its military m1ght.. 
For now, Carter is avoiding any response that might trigger a.harsh Soviet reaction. Thus, the closest thing to a show of force is a Marine landing exercise scheduled for mid­month at the U.S. naval base in Cuba's Guantanamo Bay. 
"That's something we used to do annually,'' said a civilian official. He made it clear he regards the exercise as no ~ig deal and exnects no reaction other than ~hetorical bluster from the Cuh;1ns and Russians. 
The 1,60li to 1,800 U.S. Marines are to be pulled out of Guantanamo after about. four weeks. Defenc-e officials believe this will keer rl-e demon~tration from becom:~.; ·~ provocattvc:;. 
In his spt" .:1 Mon&y rught, 
AtSMC 
Annual Biergarten begins today 
by Cece &Iiies 

As pan of Oktoberfest, Saint Mary's will hold the annual Bierganen today from 6 to 11 pm. This year for the ftrst time the celebration will be held ' outside in tents. Food and beer will be kept in separate tents, with a band playmg between the tents. 
Mary Laverty, the Director of Student Activities at Saint Mary's, said that security will be tight, and that no one will be allowed in the beer tent without 
[continued from page3] 
"Every person is free, " the Pope said, "when he is the master of his own actions." 
"Moral laws do not militate against the freedom of the 
person,  on  the contrary, they  
are  made  to  preserve ·  that  
freedom."  

"The person who ignores these moral laws, is not truly· free." 
a 21 I.D. She also said that students will not be allowed to leave the tent wtth beer. 
Laverty said she hopes that "the students will show their appreciation to the Oktoberfest committee and Lisa Fulks, the chairman, by cooperating fully." 
She also said she hopes the students realize that ''the purpose of the Biergarten is to enjoy the co~pany of friends, not to overindulge.'' 
She stressed that the success of this event will determine 
U.S. tour. 

Ca, ~,~ ,_ ~ .•"eated Soviet assur­
• • . Pope 

J iffi~! J t 'this mass is considered the most important ofhis seven day
U.S. tertns role in Cuba U'l JUen 
The Pope further explained that these moral laws are derived from divine law as revealed through the gospel. 
After completing the one and one-half hour service, the Pppe went to the residence of John Cardinal Krol, the Pope's host here in Philadelphia. John Paul spent last evening there. 
The Pope's schedule today includes a visit to St. John Newman's Shrine, a visit to the Euchranian Catholic Church, and a mass at Convention Hall for priests, nuns, and seminarians. His a,ddress at 
"' 

i whether other activities of this ,... 
1 

nature will be open to those 
under 21. 
Anthony Kovatch, the director of security at Saint · Mary's, strongly discouraged anyone from bringing a car on campus. He urged everyone to either take the shuttle or to walk since "traffic will be tightly controlled, and anyone caught disobeying the trafftc laws will be removed from campus.'' 
He also stressed that he ''wants everyone to have a good time but no one to get hurt.'' 
~PtiCATiONS] 
inow being taken forI 
I the off-:campus II , 1 1COUNCIL 
I Any inttrested OC I 
, · 
' 
i 
, Student may apply 
Shannon Neville 



elsewhere in-the Western •••••••••••••••••••••••••
C A 1\.TQn T".....-.... "~''-1\AT 
1"'l.l 'I L -.Ll~ L _____....;;:;;-.--------------------­
12 miles from campus GROUP RATES TRANSPORTATION AVAILABLE 

Float the St. Joe or the fast Dowagiac 

Call616/69~-2250 for reservations 
THE SPORT CORNER 
320 N. Redbud Tr., Buchanan, Mich. 

.. 

anc..~ . . . ·he Russian unit of 2,000 to .3,000 men "will not be a threat to the U.S. or to any other nation. ' ' 
But U.S. officials continue to regard the Soviet brigads as a combat unit, and one senior defense official said, "Our in­terpretation of those assurances is that they (the Russians will not give that brigade a power projection capability,'' such as airlift or sealift, that would permit the brigade to be used 
Hemisphere. Another official said that if 
the Russians or Cubans ''show
any signs of exporting a combat force, we will stop it." He did not say how. 
Administration sources sa)­Carter not only avoided a blunt w.Wt~ry !~-~pop~e to .thJ; Soviet 
Troop ·Issue, but he also reject­ed any options that smacked of e~onomic warfare against Rus­
Sia. 
Rhodes admits lying 
ROME, Ga. (AP) -A witness in the racketeering trial of pornographer Michael Thevis says he lied under oath at the request of government agents in a case related to the Thevis prosecution. 
William 0. Rhodes, c~ll~ Wednesday as a defense wt; _, ness, said he lied in the trial last December of Atlanta at-­toroey Gilbert H. Deitch at the request of FBI agent Paul King. 
Rhodes said he also was asked to five perjured testimony at Thevis' trial, but instead wrote to defense attorfiey Bobby Lee Cook, saying he wanted to "let the chips fall where they be­long." 
Judge Harold Murphy sent the Jury from the courtroom and told Rhodes, "The court needs to offer you a lawyer. It's a felony to commit perjury in this court, and ifyou have, you need a lawyer to advise you.'' Rhodes declined the offer. 
Deitch was tried and acquitted on a charge that he conspired to kill government witness Roger Dean Underhill. After Deitch was indicted, but before his trial, Underhill was shot to death. 
... 

Thevis and two c<>defendants, ] eanette Evans and"BF Hood, are on trial .irtfede~al co_un on charges oflonspiring to murder Underhill. At the same time, Thevis ~_rcharged with operat­ing his pornography business in "a pattern of racketeering," employing murder, arson and other crimes to snuff out com­petition. 
Rhodes, who is serving a 20-year sentence for bank rob­bery, said he agreed to lie for the government because he feared for his life ifhe remained in prison. 
Murphy said Rhodes' un­expected testimony would delay the end of the trial, which was expected to finish in mid-Oct­ober. It is now in its seventh 
week. 
Rhodes told the jury he met Underhill in 1976 in the Fulton County jail in Atlanta. Under­hill said he was "putting some 
murders on Mike" and pro­mised to talk to FBI agent King on Rhodes' behalf, Rhodes testifted. 
He said the government would lie or "do anything to get a conviction.'' 
,~~~

......................................................... 

The Observer Thutsday, Ocfuber 4, 1979 -page 6 
-PI ­
·In IndianapoliS·.
Appllcatlo~ a::rable ftom 
Teachers return to classroom 
Campus ffiinlstty 
arbitrator do what they couldn't -settle their _bitter contract dispute with the city school
Deadline: Friday Oct. 5 at lpm 
board. 

r 
Asked by their leaders at a morning meeting ·to stand if they were willing to go back to work, almost all the teachers did, and the decision was greeted with applause and cheers. 
Later, the school administra­tion reported that 97 percent l1f the 3,400 teachers reporte<;l for work, many of them for tbe' first time since the strike began Sept. 4. Only 72 percent of the 
1 system's 70,000 students were in school, but that was attri­buted to the fact that the teachers' back-to-work decision was made only an hour before class time. 
1 ''When you get back to those ·classrooms today, you should hold your heads up high be­cause you did something,'' the teachers were told by Bruce 
Rogers, an Indiana State Teachers Association bargain­ing expert who was called into the talks dudng the strike. 
With the return to work and 
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN© 1971 
"No dummy, I said a rose!" 
3'~ 
For the real beer lover. 
..~.~~S'ltt r.. tern 
-....-.... -. ­
-~---­
the agreement to subMit the dispute to binding arbitration, Morgan Circuit Judge John E. Sedwick Jr. granted an in­definite continuance on a suit by parents asking that teachers be held in contempt of court for ignoring a back-to-work order. 
The teachers will take to arbitration a final proposal for a 9 percent pay raise now, an­other 4 percent in January and a 3 percent experience incre­ment increase. The school board's last offer was to give each teacher a one-time $500 lump sum and 5 percent pay raise now and the 3 petcent increment increase. 

Kathleen Orrison, president of the teacher's union, said negot­iators would have preferred to · work out their own settlement but arbitration is fair to both sides. 
She said 27 issues would be submitted to the arbitrator who will make his decision within 30 days, subject to appeal by the school board only if it is forced into illegal deficit spending. If the board appeals and loses, it will be required to pay interest on any money withheld from the teachers. 
''We're very relieved and glad it's over," Miss Orrison said. 
She told the teachers that item-by-item arbitration will re­sult in "some wins and some losses' on both sides but said that method is more favorable to teachers than full package arbitration. 
S. Dean Brown, chief negotia­tor for the teachers, said the American Arbitration will sub­mit a list of nine prospective arbitrators to the school board and the teacher's union within two days. The two sides will choose the arbitrator from that 
-list. 
SMC frosh elect new council 
A new Freshman Council was elected yesterday at Saint Mary's, whose members are Patty Antoon, Carolyn Birch, Monica Dornbach, Erin Flood, Jean Ann Georgas, Lucy Hanahan, Melanie Margiotta, Gaynor McCown, Roxanne Rochester, and Patti Zukaitis. 
26 students ran for 10 elected positions on the council, which was double the number that ran last year, according to Elections Commissioner. Mullaney added that the candidates came from LeMans, Holy Cross, Regina and McCandless Halls. 
62 percent of the Freshman turned out to vote 1n the elections. The Council's first meeting is October 9 at 6:30 in the Student Government Office, which is located in the Regina basement. 
fl
cpQcmm an 
crJQowe~tg 
f.o~ €V€~V OCcasion 
,_,et\aon~Lie Ptlcea 
Just Olal •:84-4841 ~­eGu~ ,SOJ;;>~Vlq ho 

. ::....,.,.,.... 
;i'c!'·' 

1 . ~ ' -­

'· Need~ to·'Green B_ay Ooh 12.-.J~,_~;~ '•":.'·~, 
~  , •• • •  • .,.._~  ~  ,  ··• (!-·~ £P-44'  ,.ii-,-•.;.:.'f;  
---···  
-~  ~ ..... ,.. ~·····  

Editorials  Thursday' October 4, 1979-page 8  
Consider the Plunge By now you probably have your excuses all lined up. Job, vacation plans, bowl game ...whatever the reason, you simply do not have time over Christmas break to take a 48-hOuf  . .Redefinitton of Student Government  

plunge into the inner city to see how "the other half' lives. 
Before finalizing your decision, however, we believe you 
should consider more carefully what the Urban Plunge can do 
for you. 
Let's face facts. The vast majority of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's students hail from upper middle class suburbia. The 
comfortable suburban lifestyle tends to have an isolating 
effect. Inner-city problems of poverty, crime, injustice, and 
discrimination seem distant and unreal. It is all too easy to 
forget that such problems are a very real part of everyday life 
for millions of Americans. 
The urban plunge is intended to open eyes and provoke thought. Sponsored by the Center for Experiential Learning, the plunge exposes students to the inner city, its people and its problems. While a 48-hour visit must necessarily by limtted in scope, the plunge nevertheless has the potential to be a valuable learning experience. 
Students planning careers in business, law, politics, medicine and science may someday be called upon to make:: crucial decisions regarding inner-city problems. It is imJ?ortant that. these students acquire the knowledge and insight necessary to make conscientious Christian dedisions. Urban Plunge will not provide all the answers, but it is a logical starung point. 
Tomorrow is the final day of sign-ups for Urban Plunge. Application forms are available from hall representatives and Campus Ministry, and must be retruned to one of the Campus Ministry offices or the Office of Religious Studies at Saint Mary's. The ObseT'f.ler encourages students to take the plunge. It is an experience that can change you; it is one you will not re~ret. 
A column appeared in last 
Friday's Observer entitled 
''Student Government 
Inappropriate." We would 
suggest that a better title would 
have been "Student Govern­
ment, Misunderstood." In 
writing the column, Tom Jackman has made a series of errors. He has grossly over­simplified what is, in fact, a more complex situation. 
Student Government consists of five different branches: a cabinet, the Hall Presidents' Council, the Judicial Council, the Off Campus Council, and the Student Union. To arbitrarily ignore the Student Union as a part of Student Government, as Tom does, is a mistake; it is a vital part of that whole. 
Jackman notes that the Student Government is not the ruling body. on this campus. The Administration does make the key decisions on this campus. But to say something like that is to belabor the obvious. Does the fact that we are not the most powerful body 
P·O· Box Q 
Pope in Chicago tomorrow
Students criticize should invite Catholics to act 
cont~~rY to the ''schedule of the
University priorities day. 
Sharing in the celebration of Mass by Pope John Paul II promises to outweigh the value
Dear Editor: 
of one day's lectures. Classes can surely be re-scheduled, butPope John Paul II, the who can guarantee Notre Dame supreme vicar of Christ and the students another opportunity to head of the Roman Catholic 
celebrate mass with their
Church, will celebrate mass spiritual leader?
before one million of the faithful in Chicago tomorrow. Among those greeting the Pope will be thousands of Catholics who will lose a day's wages, abandon their housework, cancel long-awaited appoint­ments and otherwise rearrange their daily routine to celebrate Mass with the head of their Church. 
As these Catholics prepare for Pope John Paul's arrival in Chicago, It is distressing to note the Notre Dame admini­stration's unwillingness to forsake one day's calendar in honor of his visn. 
Self-professed to be the most Catholic of all Catholic universities, Notre Dame has failed to mount the vanguard in heralding die most imponant event for Catholics on American soil in this decade. The university's failure to promote irs students'· attendance at the Papal Mass suggests a studied indifference to this historic pilgrimage. 
According to the director of Campus Ministry, "To promote or orga,tize something like that invites people to act contrary to the schedule of the day.'' (The Obserr~er, Sept. 27) We suggest that the presence of the 
-The Observer_ 
&x Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The ObseT'Ver is an independent newspaper published by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the
--. 
Mary M. Mertens 
WHY A~ HeNRY 6RUNtvAUJ AN() THE OTHER EP!llJRS OF 'TIMe" SO INFATIJ4TEP k/ITH 
~ KISS!MitR.? NEIU )()(Q(SOCIA/... • CR/1/C 8CU. EXPlAINS. 

AT7Htfr teiEL,TJE&r:r fF f1CriEI< ANP ITS fFFl!CllVE I/5E MEAN HCH KR£ THAN M/!11£ ~L­CtN.i/PEIG4TDIS, 11E IEIR5 tF HeNRY JJJCe 7NAT. 
saying that "the goal of 'Student Govenment' is to mcrease student input into Adminstrative decisions.'' This statement is highly inaccurate and misleading. Roche stated in the interview that increased input is one of the goals of Student Government. To say that it is the goal implies that there are no others. And, obviously, this is far from the case. 
Even within the Student Government Cabinet, which Jackman erroneously viewed as being the whole of Student Government, rnput is not the sole objective. The Cabinet has already run tht> Freshman and Transfer Orientation, and the Social Concerns Film Series. Work has begun on a Course Evalu~ltion Booklet. A number of other "non-lobbying" types of acuvities will be undertaken during the year. 
Therefore, to assess the validity of Student Govenment on the issue of student input is narrow-minded and just plain wrong. 
regularly outvoted 2-1. Two votes would be a rather meaningless gesture and add nothing to what we already possess. The simple fact is that the Board of Trustees does not dictate policies on the campus. The Board is not going to come in and tell the Administrators how to run the school. They are not in the habit of meddlmg. The Board realizes that the 
Administrators are professionals and in their jobs for a reason. 
The concern of the Board is with the long-term picture. The question they are mterested in is: What pl:lSition will the University be in 20 to 30 years 
from now? Despite their 
awareness of problems such as 
overcrowding, the temporary 
problems simply are not much 
ofa concern. 
Jackman clai~s that having voting students on the Board isn't a complete solution. His proposal doesn't even qualify as a weak attempt. If we are 

on campus mean that we have gomg to deal effectiVely with
This is not to say that student 
no "validity or purpose," as campus problems, we cannot be 
input is not a key issue for

Jackman asserts? Of course continually invoking the
Student Government. It is. 
Trustees from on high.

not. When they campaigned last
While the Student Govern­Jackman notes three
spring, Bill Roche and Bill Vita 

ment budget is not $81 million, instances where student
constantly referred to student

like that of the Administration, opinion was ignored: the
input as a major campus

the Student Government parietals issue and the housing 
problem, and it still is.

budget is still quite important. lottery issues of last year, and
Students obviously are in a very

iWe consider the $130,000.00 this year's keg issue. And it
weak power J.>OSition. Tom

:that we allocate a tremendous would not be difficult for any of
Jackman claims that one

responsibility. That responsi -us to find other examples.
remedy to the problem of lack

bility becomes greater when However, in making his obser­
of student input into admini­

one realizes that the cash flow vation, Jackman has
strative decisions is the placing 

generated by the operations of conveniently noted only
of two students as voting

Student Government in a yeat negative instances of student
members on the Board of
reaches over one miltion input, while ignoring several
Trustees. Jackman's comment

dollars. So, another of our positive recent occurences.
about the Board of Trustees

misswns is to see that the This causes a severe bias in his
reflects a very poor under­

money is spent responsibly and argument.
standing of the Board, the

for the benefit of the students. This fall, Bill Vita and Bill
people on it, its purpose, and its 

ackman then quotes the Roche interviewed the
relationship to Student Govern­

s candidates for Security
ment. This misunderstanding 
Director. This is certainly a
seems to be fairly common on
CMY, /..OOK, 'THE 6UY'S CieARJ..Y 
step in the right direction. 
campus. ' 
A !AlAR. 0011/INAL., 8IfTt4J£N YOlJ 
Also this year, we were able
First, the Board is much
TAlK A80t/TNAnS /.11<& K!SSINriiK. 
to work with Dean Roemer on
more aware of what is
Ql{ PlJCI<EFEUER OR BlJN(J~ 
this fall's alcohol directive
happening. on campus than
W".Re TALI</N6 INN~ 
before it was issued. We were
Jackman realizes. Almost all 
able to get every change in the
Board members are Notre 
draft that we wanted at that
Dame graduates. Many have 

time. We worked with Fr.
sons or daughters currently on 

VanWolvlear to get a number of
campus. They are here on 

improvements made in Stepan
campus several times a year 

Center to enhance its value as a
and get out to the dorms. 

recreation center. And we
Those members on the Student 

recently passed a resolution in
Affairs Committee regularly 

the CLC that requires that we
read The ObseT'f.ler. They meet 

be notified of changes in DuLac 
with the Student Government 

before they accur.
Board ofCommissioners twice a 
Certainly, this does not mean
year, giving then "invaluable 

that students now make
sources offirst-hand knowledge 

decisions here. The balance of
of campus issues'' that 

power has not shifted in our
Jackman claims they need. We 

favor. But they are positive
keep in contact with the Board 

changes nevertheless.
between meetings to keep them informed. We are the student Student Government, then, is representatives on the Board of a very viable group with a wide Trustees. Ofcourse, we do not range of interests and hve the vote on the Board that objectives. We clearly do have 
Jackman claims is needed. But ''validity and purpose.'' This be realistic. What are two votes year is far from over; we are not going to do? At Boston ready to pack it in. There is alot College, students have a one of work to be done. third vote, with trustees and Administrators getting one Notre Dame Student third vote each. They are Government 
institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers
administration of either 

The news is reported as accurately and 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor·in·chie( ........ Rosemary Mills Sports Editor .. ................Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editona/ Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor ..............Doug Christian 
opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ........Steve Odland able to all members of the community, News Editor .................... Mark Rust Production Manager .......Tim· Sullivan and the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager ......... Bob Rudy opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor.~ ...Ellen Buddy Controller................. .Kevin Manion encouraged. SMC News Er/itor........ Margie Brassil Circ1/ation Manager ....... Greg Hedges 
-


mualcvlewaFeatures Thursday, October 4, 1979·-~ 9  
Live at the Morris Civic Legendary ]azzman Chalon Mullins Taking off around 8 and wrapping constained by the shortness and reaching the exalted levels of his played through a read, which produ­things up near 11:30, Sonny Rollins, repetitiousness of the rune's musical colleagues. ced an ethereal sound with an brought some of the most energetic, phrases. oriental flavor. this piece providedFor ine the discovery of the nighttuneful, and well-executed jazz there Bassist Harrist suffered most from just the risht note of change in the was AI Foster. This is simply anis to the Morris Civic lase Friday the limitations of ' 1Isn't She Lovely." programmmg. completely unantici­amazing, astounding, awe-inspiringnight. Rollins and his band (Mark An impressive improviser at all other pated, it surprised and exhilirated apercussive force, folks. Every soloSalkind on piano, Jerome Harris on times, in this, his first solo, he nearly sated audience. was tight, driving, and structured tobass, 'AI Foster on drums) kept a seemed to have trouble getting away build to a climax (and a climax for A few things marred the evening;small but enthusiastic audience in from the tune's melody and finding Foster is a peak few drummers dream the too long break, sound problemstheir seats even through a 45 minute the right musical ideas for his solo. of attaining); every rhythmic ·idea and the crowd size. Long breaks arebreak. Even here, though, his considerable was clearly and cleanly articulated, normal in jazz clubs, where there are technique was evident, and in each of diversions to keep a potentiallyThe two sets surrounding the break never qegenerating into cliche. his succeedin~ solos he shone, dis­restless crowd occupied. Here, suchwere composed of five songs each, Rollins on tenor sax is every bit the playing a parucular flair for melodic breaks are out of place. The finemost of them Rollins originals except legendary figure he is everywherelines. In his accompaniment, Harris sound system of the Morris wasfor Stevie Wonder's "Isn't She reported to be. His solos areis a traditionalist, never stepping mismanaged. The bass was distor·Lovely" and Billie Holliday's "Easy exceptionally tuneful, built on longforward until it's time for an exten­ted, the piano tinny, and the general Livin'." R 'lllins' compositions show and short phrases, running through ded solo. This traditional approach to sound level too high. Such sounda strong blues influence. even when changes like a Bird arisen from thesoloing characterizes the whole band. problems are unusual for jazz, andthey are unfamiliar, they are eminen­ashes, soaring into harmonic squeaks The pianist, Salkind, has a great probably indicate insufficient rehear­tly listenable and enjoyable. and plunging into gut-wrenchingrhythmic feel and a sure musical sal time. The crowd was small,bass honks like a coltrane or Sanders, The Wonder song did not work as touch. His solos, however, were all though it made up in sophisticationmoaning and wailing through thewell as the other material. Except for built on short ph:-ases, which may what it lacked in size. My only worry Holliday song like the news of hersome fine electric piano work by indicate some foreshortening of mu­is that the lack of big audiencesdeath just reached him.Salkind (the only time he left his sical imagination. This is not to say might scare promoters away from aco.ustic instrument a!l night), the that he was ever boring or incompe­For the song "T'ai chi", Rollins such exceptional talent as Rollins. band's improvisatory talent seemed tent, only that he had trouble switched to a flute-like instrument, Let's hope not.  
CORNERSTONE  Silence ••• and Its Absence  
Tim Sullivan  ''Explore the nature of nusical art "in standards, quite conservative -Hin­the twentieth century ... discover demith, I believe -but that incident  
viewpoints. Guitarist Tommy Shaw·  some ways to 'make sense' of music gave rise to a series of questions 
and keyboard player Dennis De  which is considered difficult, inacces­which the students and I grappled 
Young write three songs each, and  sible, or down ri~ht intolerable." with for the rest of the semester.  
also corroborate on two others. The  This is the invitation offered to the , Why was that lady angry? _ Her  
tones and moods of these · composi­ audience of WSND!FM this fall, and ; response was genuine and active; she  
tions vary from mellow to insightful  • ' Sonic discoveries' ' provides a wag moved to make a phone call, not  
to rebellious, and deal with a wide  guided expedition into the largely merely to switch off the radio. It was  
range of subjects like first love, the absurdity of fate, and changing  uncharted terrain of music of our own a thoughtful, reflective actand it1 century. deserves consideration. She was  
lifestyles due to material shortages. ] ames '']Y'' Young throws in a solid rocker which warns Ted Kennedy not to run for the 1980 election. In total, Cornerstone provides an unusual but entertaining mixture. · The album is not without faults, however. DrummerJohn Panozzo is guilty of occassionai plodding, and bassist chuck Panozzo (they are brothers) sometimes lapses into re­On Pieces ofEight, the hard-edged gressive "How to Play Bass" riffs. classical group Styx tried to break The lyrics on "Babe" are so sweet away from their usual songwriting and buttery you could pour them over fare by attempting some differect your morrung pancakes. percussion lines, unusual vocaliza­But despite these minor disconcer­tions, and broader instrumental ar­tions, the album is a winner. rangements. Before that album, the Particularly of note is "Why me?" Chicago-based band had made little which incorporates numerous rhythm effon at venturing into new musical changes and intriguing vocals, and grounds, relying instead on their "Borrowed Time," a hard rocker tried and true formula of computeri­with a clean, sharp melodic hook. zed synthesizer rhythms, catchy gui­Also of interest 1s the elaborate tar leads, and romanticized lyricism. packaging for the record, which is as Unfortunately, chose experiments informative and aesthetic as it is were not a complete success, as they unusual. ' failed to capture the atention they Styx performs tonight in the ACC at deserved. In fact, the only rune given 7:30 p.m., and the show, billed as any ~lay was "Renegade," which '' The Grand Decathalon,'' promises was a ruce little rocker, but not one of to be an exciting one. Whether or not Styx's better attempts. Cornerstone reproduces well in con­On their new release Cornerstone, cert remains to be seen, but similar however, Styx has managed to fuse fears were laid to rest about the the experimental nature of Pieces of "Grand lllusion" tour last year. Styx Eight with their traditional style of is a seasoned concen band and no earlier albums, producing a fresh and _ doubt will be very entertainig. successful blend. The rQmanticism A fmal note: Opening for Styx is Ian remains, as do the crisp guitar solos, Hunter with English guitariSt Mick but gone is the repetitive synthesizer Ronson. If you can get used to focus. Instead, the StygWls have Hunter's Dylanesque vocals, you will broadened their arrangements with enjoy his renditions of ''When the greater emphases on vocal harmonies Daylight Comes," (from his latest and acoustic supplements, like auto­album, You're Never Alone with a harp, accordion, saxophone, and Schizophrenic) and of his older Mott percussion. the electric standards of the Hoople songs, like "All the guitar, bass, and keyboards churn Young Dudes" and "All the Way to away with exciting precision, but Memphis." Ronson, David Bowie's they are not the forefront of Corner­former axe-man, is a versatile and stone's music. For the most pan, the talented guitarist as well, so for once songs carry their own weight without Notre Dame will have a decent heavy metal suppon. warm-up band. Get there early and Overall, Cornerstone is a well-bal­enjoy a night of good, rowdy rock-n­anced recordin from a varie of roll.  angry because the sounds arid rhy­"Sonic Discoveries" is a new 13­thms of the composition offended her week series aired each Friday even­sensibilities. The piece didn't makeing at 8:15 on Notre Dame's fine arts sense according to her idea of howradio station. Produced locally, the music is supposed to proceed. Thatseries is written and hosted by Dr. answer opens up the real q,uestions. Linda Ferguson, Assistant·Pro~essor Was it appropnate that th1s listenerinthe General Program of L1beral felt angeed and offended? Studies, and engineered by WSND's If we believe that it was theJohn Foster. Now in its fifth week, appropriate response, then we are"Sonic Discoveries" delves into the saying either that the music is,music of composers ranging from objectively, bad music and that theMahler to Cage. listener nghtfully was offended; orThe idea for ''Sonic Discoveries" that the music is designed in such awas initially proposed by K~vin way as to evoke 'bad' feelings, inGessler, WSND!FM Program Dltec­which case, the listener was merelytor. Gessler wanted to add a registering a correct response. Butdimension of aesthetic education to what if, genuine as that lady'sthe program offerings fo the station. Most radio listeners tend to "tune response was, it ws inappropriate?. What does that mean? Perhaps 1tout" any music which doesn't fit means that the listener was basingtheir expectations; since much music her value judgments on a set ofoft h epast 80 years does not satisfy premises that don't fit the situation. conventional expectations of listen­If that's the case, what is theers, it seemed that this music could situation? And on what basis can weappropriately be the subject of a series aimed at expanding the listen­judge it? Now we're into the crucial problem of most modern an. So youing repertoire of the audience. by see, the Sonic Discoveries seriesproviding some commentary desisn­concept was generated by the prob­ed to aid listeners in understanding lem represented by that lady whothe basic conditions of the various called the radio station to complain.types of music programmed in the and that anonymous angry listener is series, it becomes more feasible to always inthe back of my mind ininclude the sounds most listeners are putting together the series.'~likely to ignore if left to their own Although Prof. Ferguson is admit­devices. While the programs are tedly prejudiced in favor of most ofplanned to be heard as a series, each the music she has chosen to includesegment has a specific theme, or in the series, she has attempted toconsiders a panicular problem. 1 avoid the critically unproductive posi­The approach of the series was tion which claims, "I like this;, inspired, at lest in pan, by some therefore, it is good." Rather, theconversations which took place in a series presents a variety of selections classroom last spring, in the General representing what is generally consi­Program fine Arts course. Much of dered to be 1mportant and antstically that course is devoted to aesthetic valuable. The commentary offersproblems in. modern an and music. observations about the way the music According to Dr. Ferguson, the works, and suggests critical issuesinstructor of the course, "One day involved which should direct theKevin related to the class that an listener toward some appropriateirate' listener had phoned the station ways to judge the mus1c wtthoutwhile he was on the air to protest the ugly musiC he was playing. The [continued on page 11.]composition was, by 20th century ~~ \-------·----­ 




News in brief U.S. o!fors SOviets,· increased wheat supply WASHINGTON (AP) • The Unired States has assured the Soviet Union that it can buy up to 2~ rnilnon metric tons of U.S. wheat and com in the coming years, about 60 percent .m6re than it bought in 1978-79, a senior Agricultural Dcpanment official said yesterday. Under Secretary Dale E. 'Hathaway said, however, that the (>ermission to Russia included "nothing that they will, 10 fact, import that quant1ty"' of yram in the coming year from the United States. Radiation levels subside at leaky nuclear plant RED WING, Minn. (AP) · A reactor at the Prairie Island· nuclear generating plant, where radioactiVe steam spewed into the ;rtmosphere Tuesday, achieved cold shutdown status yesrc rcl.r' afternoon, said Northern States Power Co. officials. Inspections to determine the cause of a ' S'adioactive leak could begin within two to four days, a power company official said yesterday. Tornado strikes East, National Guard,provides aid WINDSOR LOCKS, Conn. (AP) · Two persons were killed and at least 56 were injured when a tornado struck yesterday, ! accompanied by a storm with gusts up to 86 mph, and more than 40 buildings were damaged or destroyed. Gov. Ella\ Grasso declared an 8 p.m. to ~ a.m. curfew and ordered in 200 National Guard troops because of what she said was "~rave concern" about security in damaged areas after mghtfall. Mrs. Grasso, a resident of Windsor Locks, said it was ''simply horrifying''. Weather Considerable cloudiness today with a 20 perc~nt chance .of showers. High today in the upper ~Os. Cleanng and qutte cool tonight. Low in the upper 30s. Mostly sunny tomorrow, high in the low to mid 60s. CamP-_u_s----t 2 p.m. LECTURE, "the intellectual message of the polish church'', leopold tyrmand, polish scholar & writer, spon~ored by inst. for inti' studies & the program of soviet &  Thwsday, October 4, 1979 ­page 2 Lance Davis as Hamlet bmods o1•er the state ofDenmark. [photo by Rick Dohring]. • • . Pope [continued from page 1) America. "You are approaching that a primarily Polish parish -the He clearly enjoyed his time stage in life when you must take pope blessed a half-dozen with the young people. At 'personal resl?onsibility forJour youngsters in wheelchairs and Madison Square Garden, he own destiny, ' the pope tol. the received garlands of flowers. responded to the teen-agers' youngsters. "Soon you wtll ~e In addiuon to beseeching cheers several times with making decisions which wtll youth to a bright future, the "woo" -the Polish equivalent affect the whole course of your Pope addressed the nation's nf "wow" -then with "woo­life. If these decisions reflect Christ's attitude, then youroast. woo" and finally with "woo­At Battery Park in Lower Man­woo-woo.'' education will be a success." hattan, he spoke of America's After delighting his audience Philadelphia was the third tradition of freedom with twin with repeated smiles and stop on the pope's ~eek-long 1symbols of the nation's role as a !waves. and clapping his hands tour. He had been m Boston melting pot · Ellis Island and to the rythm of a/ep band, the before New York and was going1 the Statue of Liberty · visible in to Des Moines, Chicago. a~d 1 pope kmdly sai ,"You know, the mist behind him.. we shall destroy the program. " Washington, where he wtll And at Shea Stadium in His theme was the need for meet President Carter at the Queens, he spoke in Spanish of young people to know Christ. 'White House. the place of Hispanic people in r-The Qbs.erver~ . Night Editor: Beth 'I'm going i-f crazy' Huffman Asst. Night Editors: Rich Fischer, Randee Jennings, Rockin You from the Tower, Tonlte w1th Deirdre Murphy Ro-ck-n -Retrospect, from 11-12Copy Editor: john Ferroli . News Editor: Mike Shields Followed by the Album Hour,Editorial Layout: Thomas -Behney Only on Notre Dame's Student Rock,. 1 Features Layout: ScotCurtin, , AM 64 WSND1 Ten· Michielutti Sports Layout: Paul Barry Mullaney ®Sports Copy Editor: Katie montgomery 


european studies, 1201 MEM. UB. 
4 p.m. SEMINAR, "polarized infrared & raman spectra of molecular crystals", g.n.r. tripathi, nd. sponsored by radia­tion lab. CONF. RM. RADIATION LAB 
4:20 p.m.. MEETING, juniors, for the rotary graduate fellowship, 104 O'SHAG 
6 p.m. LITURGY st. francis day mass hosted by joliet franciscans, B-P CHAPEL 
6:30p.m. MEETING, judicial council, B-P PUZZLE ROOM 
6:30p.m. MEETING, leadership training class, sponsored by the campus crusade for christ, BULLA SHED 
6:30 p.m. VOLLEYBALL, smc vs bethel college & grace 
college, ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILITY 7.10p.m., FILM, "the 'SOund of music", CARROLL H.All-SMC, 11 
7, 9:lS, 11:30 pm FILM, "rollerball", ENGR. AUD., ll . 7 p.m. MEETING, lapel: program in peru, 1110 MEM. UB. 3 p.m. FACUL1Y RECITAL, nancy kennedy, mezzo-soprano. idfrey jacob, piano, UTil.E DIEATRE-SMC 
0 

).lD. CONCBRT. StyX, ACC -p.dl. NAZZ. jamie JOOdrich 00 pita~" 
~ . ---. . !ifs·J¥..1 <,l"t, 
Huffman Typists: Tem' Blazt~ Tina Terlaak, Beth Willard, Bill Swift, Shaun McAuley, Cindy Grilliot, Paul [ho 'bout your­self] Mullaney, Beth Huffman 
. [again[, Rich Fischer EMT: .Anne ''druggie '' Nom's Proofreader: Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor: Katie Kil­
~uskie 

SMC Day Editor: Peggy Schneeman Ad Design: Matt DeSalvo 
· Photographer: Ric~ Dohring Guest Appearances: Scoo} "don't tell Ryan" Sullivan, Craig "TWSS" Chval, Mikd Ortman, Mark Perry 
f--­The Observer [USPS 591 9201 Is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and v~e~tion periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre 011111 and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purdlased tor S20 per yur IS18 per llllliSterj from The Observer, P.O. box 
Q. Notre 011111. Indiana 46556. Second class "=' paid. Notrt 011111, In­
diana . The Observer 11 a 1111111blr Iff till Associated Pms. All I"'CJf''CCuctton 
rights are~~ 
WILL CONDUCT INTERVIEWS ON THIS CAMPUS FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12. 1979. CAREER POSITIONS IN VERTICAL TRANSPORTATION MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT WILL BE DISCUSSED WITH DEGREE CANDIDATES IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION. FOR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT MONTGOMERY AND OUR FUTURE VISIT TO YOUR 
CAMPUS. CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE.' 


I I I 
' .

The Observer 
McTaggart explains United Way project 
by Michael Mader 
The third annual organized United Way drive in the Not~e Dame-Saint Mary's community is under way. Brother ] oe McTaggart, the campaign's advisor, commented on some of the background and purposes of the fund-raising proJect. 
Before therewas an organized effort, McTaggart said, "coll­ections were sporadic, ranging anywhere from selling cupcakes to extortion." McTaggart ob­served that since the drive has been organized, there has gen-
Homecoming ticket raffle begins today 
The Student Union Homecom­ing committee ·will be selling raffle tickets for two homecom­ing packages starting today, and lasting until the supply of 500 tickets is depleted. Anyone interested in buying a raffle ticket should go to the Sudent Union Ticket Office, 2nd Floor of Lafortune, from noon to 4 
p.m. No student who purchas­ed a homecoming packet should attempt to buy a raffle ticket. 
[cont£nued from page 9] 
making the judgments for him. The early segments in the series have demonstrated some of the late 19th century , developments which evolved into 20th century techniques and attitudes, specifically the excessive chromaticism of the late Romantics, and the revolu­tionary aesthetic of the french impressionists currently the series is dealing with the break­down of the tonal system, the problems of atonality, and the 12-tone music. Subsequent programs will feature compo­sers such as Bartok Copland and Britten, who celebrate·tradi­tional musicaf values in a 
contemporary vocabulary. 
Later on, electronic music will be considered, and the aesthet­ic problems with whcih tech­nology had confropted the mus­
ical world. 
Prof. · Ferguson was educated as a music historian and theor­ist, but now teaches in Notre Dame's Gerneral Program, and erally been good support and l.ated with activttes rece1vmg their goals have successfully funds collected from the stud­increased each year. ent drive, such as Lo~an 
Participating students, led by Center, Big Brother, tutonng chairman Chris Digan and his services, daycare cctnters and assistant Mike Sexton, will drop-out schools," stated collect at the residence halls M~iaggarf. "Therefor~ the October· 7-11. "The United dnve 1s the most,appropnate to Way is traditionally collected the community.'' door-to-door on a city basis," In respect to campaign goals McTaggart noted. "We feel we this year, McTaggart stated 
are a part of the greater South that "We're not really trying Bend community and therefore for a goal in terms of money as go to the residence halls." much as a goal in terms of 
According to McTaggart, student participation.'' The student fundraisers collect for fundraisers are trying to get a the United Way because it is hundred percent participation the one major contribution that from the students and asking serves to support the organizat­them to contribute a dollar ions that students are involved each. "A dollar can't buy you with in South Bend. ''A large much these days,'' remmded portion of students are assoc-McTaggart. 

Thur. Oct 4 Jamie Goodrich 
9:30-? 

Friday Oct. 5 Mike Franken Paul Bertolini with guest Eric Barth 
9:30-? 

Sat. Oct. 6 Cathy Breslin Kathy Murray 9:30-? 
~:* ~**********~********************************\
: SMC SPAB presents A Real OKtoberfest!! * 
LAPEL 
* meets '** 
* 
tonight ** 
* 
LA~EL will meet tonight .~t 7 
* 

pm m room 1110 of the Memorial Library. Tonight is * the deadline for applications. * Anyone with questions should *
£25c BEERS
call 2788. 
:Miller Lite 
£Lowenbrau 
. Silence

' ' *
* ~~\, 
a generalist tone is evident in ! ~~\,~ the commentary. Prof. Fer-* ~ Soft p 
r----------------------------,; 
: Wyqant PoRal co. Inc. !I 
~~Fio~iRS------------~,un~lnl 
1 Way West 1 
1

I :
I GIFTS South Bend.J 1 1 _ Ind. 46601 l
232 3354, 
I complete wnie ·seRvice • 
.·~--------------------------.-~-..! 
RT ERECORD
.. 

In the 100 Centet oftets 10% off on 
EVERYTHING 

I· 

l.i•e 
~ 
~ 

guson stat.es, "My work in Lib-.* retzeJs eral Studies has helped me.* 
thin~s, cannot remain the ex­
clusive property of those who 
specialize in it. -My teaching 
here has also brought me to the 
realization that a true inquirer 
into music cannot be sausfied 
with explanations in terms of 
musicological information. ; By 
that I mean that we cannot 
claim to understand and explain 
musical compositions only on 
the basis of their historical and 
sociological contexts. Most 
program notes and record jac­
kets rely on this matter, and it 
is indeed interesting and impor­
tant, but if we are going to be 
true to the inquiry, we must 
deal first deal with the sub­
stance, the actual commodity of 
the discipline-in this case, 
sounds and silences arranged in 
time. Because that's what the 
lady who called the station was angry about," 
Thurs., Oct 4, 6-llpm * 
* 

SMC Dinin~ Hall Quad * 
* 

open to a ll ** rain or shine. * 
d
11811 
~ 
ol\~~ 
~0 
. 

21 ID reqmred for Beer Tent ! 
I * 
* 
*
*
* 
; :: 
~i 
~
a: 
. §"*
=* 
:2 * 

understand that music like •**************************************************~
other good and mea~ingful 
· ---• -­

DECATHLON" 
sliow on  Thursday  
October 4,  NOTRE DAME A.C.C.  
7:30PM  $9... 00/8.00 Reserved  

TICKETS ON SALE WED. SEPT. 5 
Available at The A.C.C. Box Office, Robertson's in South Bend & Elkhart, St. Joseph Bank, Main Office, 1st Bank, Main Office, the Elkhart Truth and the following River City Review Ticket Outlets: Suspe·nded Chord in Elkhart, South Bound Records in Ft. Wayne, The Record Co. in Plymouth, Fanta-C Records in Benton Harbor, and River City Records on Western Ave., U.S. 31 North, Mishawaka Ave. in South Bend, and Dunes Plaza in Michigan City. 
~--..----------~~~----------------~----~ 
.. 

so
•.. 
The Observer -Sports nu~sday' OCtDbef' 4, 1979 _-page 12 
• • • Pirates' 

Computers make life easier for NCAA statmen 
This is the second in a three-par/ senes dealing with the use of comfJJJters in the world of sports. Today 's fea­ture takes a look at computers and collegiate athletics. 
By Btl/ Marquard Sports Wn'ter 
With fan interest in athletics 
at an all-time high, the need for 
rapid dissemination of facts and 
figures is a growing concern for 
sports publicists and 
statisticians around the 
country. 
More and more conferences, 
leagues and organizations on all 
levels of sport, faced with this 
ever-increasing dilemma, are 
turning to computers to fulfill 
their desire for more accuracy 
and speed. 
Whereas in the first article of 
this series we viewed the role of 
computers in professional 
sports, specifically baseball, 
today we will focus on the 
collegiate level to examine how 
electronic data gathering has 
been applied to statistics by the 
National Collegiate Athletic 
Association. 
The NCAA, the major governing body of collegiate athletics, is certainly not immune to the problem!' of growins demand, panicularlv for statistics and rankings That is why they were the first organization involved in sports statistics on ·a national basis to employ ·computers m their work. 
"We started back in 1966," recalls Steve Boda, NCAA statistician extra-ordinaire for some 30 years, "and the system certainly ha~ profited us s<> (ar. '' 
The NCAA employs the computer and staff of United Computer Systems, close to the Asso• iation 's executive offices at Shawnee Mission, Kansas, for some oftheir statistics work, spccifically Division I football during the fall. 

Each Division I team fills out a complete statistics form from the NCAA :Jfter each game, listing every player's code number as well as his totals in any statistical category in which he appears for that game. 
The completed page is sent via a tele-reproduction system whicli duplicates shttts on a telecopying machine in Shawntt Mtssion. 
Yet Boda recalls when the "my staff, more often than not, Also compiled are team, system was much less accurate opts for the correct solution.'' individual and conference stats and reliable. ''Before tele-Yet still one more cross-check as well as lists of top rushers copiers, each team sent their is executed. The validity of and other statistical leaders by stars via Western Union. There names is compared to code week. was much more room then for numbers again to insure that "Our system is used error as compared to our they are correct. extensively by different athletic 
1 

reproduction system of the past ' As you see, accuracy is of l:onferences. We compile seven years." the utmost importance," Boda leaders and rankings for six 
Once the statistical form is quick to point out. "A single conferences, and in the cases of reaches the NCAA, the tedious mistaken person can result in the Southwestern and Big Ten, work of verification and • innaccurate rankings.'' we can transfer the data 
compilation begins. The stars are keypunched by a 6-person crew that works from 5 pm Saturday night well into the early hours of Sunday morning when the last game report arrives. Havin8 been key{>unched, the statistics are! fed mto the computer in a batch of 4 to 5 games at a time, at which time the computer compares all the stats for discrepancies. 
The computer will return to 
the operator a list of all errors 
(e.g. totals of all individual rushers not equaling the team total) encountered and how much the opposing figures were apart by. 
''These errors are then 
checked by our staff," relates 
Boda. "Often the error is 
either in telecopier tran~­
mission or in keypunching, but 
we nevertheless check every­
thing to assure accuracy.'' 

Another important check­point is player validity. That is the name on the NCAA stat form must be the same as the pre-prog~ammed player code number hsted on the form. 
"For instance, suppose Vagas Ferguson is number 26 in our alphabetic player code," proposes Boda. "If he is mistakenly identified as 27 on the stat form, the computer will check to see if the player's name agrees with the coded name on number 27's master card. If the names do not agree, then we have to resolve the discrepancy. ' ' 
By three a.m., most of the variances have been resolved and the statistics for the 90 some odd games that day are ready to be entered. 
But prior to running the statistics, the variances and discrepancies in the stats are checked once more by Boda himself early Sunday morning. He has the final say on how discrepancies should be resolved before the update is run. but~ Boda's own words 
[continued from page 16] 
six pitchers. 

"Every game is different, so we just go on the assumftion that if they're ready, we' l use them," said Tanner of his bullpen corps. 
The Reds, despite being down two games and travelling to Pittsburgh, were not ready to concede the series. 
''This game can change in­stantly, as long as you keep from getting down on your­self," Knight, the Reds third baseman, said. "Either we wiH (win) or we won't. You can't second-guess yourself.''_ 
For the second time in two days, Knight had a chance to be a late-inning hero. But again he failed, when Kent Tekulve ­anotherCincinnati-area native ­got him to fly out to center with ~he_ bases loaded in the eighth mnmg. 
"I felt he was the one feeling the pressure. With a 3-2 count, he has to come to me," Knight said. 
In the lOth inning Wednesday, Knight -who had struck out with the bases loaded to end the game _the night before -again ended the contest with a fly ball to right field. 
'Wreck Tech' set for Friday 
J'he~e will be a pep r~lly for the Georgia Tech football game thts Fnday at 7:00p.m m Stepan Center. The rally will feature spea~ers Rusty _Li~ch, Bobby ~eopold, Coach Joe Yonto and spec1al guest Ztgg1e Czarobskt. The Notre Dame Marching Band will step off from Washington Hall at 6:45, and requests that all bikes be kept off the walkways in its route from Washington Hall to Stepan Center. 
Once the day's stats_ are directly from our terminal to given a clean bill of health by the conference's own terminal the computer's diagnostic in Dallas and Chicago systems, the update is ready to resr,ectively.'' be run. ' One of the most amazing 
The statistics for each of the aspects ·of this system is that 139 Division lA schools and within 10 or 11 hours after the each' of the 39 Division IAA last game is played, all of this schools that played that compilation and ranking for the weekend are updated, reranked entire nation is totally and refigured by the computer complete," remarks Boda in .a , four hour internal proudly. compilation process. 1'' • "It allows us more time to 
The result is a complete write news .releas~s, research breakdown of players around records, wnte stones and the the country in 15 statistical like. It has streamlined our job departments from rushing to to free us up for other total offense and points in projects." between. The breakdown and Yet Boda's job with statistics rankings, produced by the does not end Sunday afternoon. computer by 1 or 2 pm Sunday, Every Monday morning he gets are then photocopied and a national composite printout mailed to thousands of schools on his desk, listing the and media outlets around the offensive and defensive totals, 
1 

country. one line at a time, for each section of the country. If the offensive totals do not agree with the defensive totals for that area, then the mistake must be isolated first by district and then by school. 
''Along with any mistakes I uncover Monday morning, I also note any chan~es we are notified of by Individual schools. All of these modifications are put into the computer on Thursday after­noon so that the weekend's run is as accurate as possible," explains Boda. 
''Each week is like a new season for us,'' concedes Boda. 
''If we let mistakes accumulate from week to week, then we soon forget what to change where and our system is self­defeating." 
Considering his 30 years as NCAA statistician, does Boda see computers as useful tools with a future in sports statistics? "Most definitely. Communication bein~ what it was in 1966 when this system • was instituted and being what it is today, we could not have hoped to keep UJ? with the demand effectively tf we hadn't turned to computers." 
NEXT: A look at computers at Notre Dame. 
[continued from page 16] 

make a football game into more than it really is." 
Then what does he think about Notre Dame, where telling most people that football is only a game would be almost as dangerous as telling a pre-med student that his G.P.A. is only a number? Suprisingly, on this point he softens a bit. 
"I don't know if you can call it a 'mystique,' but there is definitely a special prominence and quality that's assoCiated with Notre Dame," says Israel who admits to having followed the Irish all his life. "I guess, in part, it's due to their rich tradition." 
He call~ Notre Dame the national university and he believes their reputation is deserved. 
"It started with Rockne in the 1920's when Notre Dame displayed all the qualitites that people of that ume could identify with," he continues. "All of a sudden there's this small school from the Indiana backwoods that's going around knocking off all the established football powerhouses. The spirit and the image of the underdog coming out on top really touched a lot of people." 
''And of course Rockne was a very charismatic 
I I I 

Israel 
fellow. The sports writers of the day, Grantland Rice, Arch Ward, they created the Notre Dame tradition. You might say that the Notre Dame mystique is a great product of the press." 
For Israel, who in recent years has seen just about every major sporting event in the world, there are plenty of games he remembers. For instance... 
"The Yankee-Red Sox playoff game last year. Now that was great," he says. "It was the culmination of a 162-game season that ended in a deadlock. The game was played in Fenway Park, a charming setting, and both teams had plenty of personality as well as hoards of devoted fans. It was as much of a spectacle as one can expect in athletics.'' 
So where do you go when you're pushing 29 and already at the top of your profession? Israel wants to write a novel someday ("Now that would be art.") or do other things with the obvious talent that he has. 
"1' d hate to think I'II be doing the same thing all my life," he points out, which is understand­able when you consider that he only has to shave maybe twice a week. 
And besides, who wants to play games forever? 
·---~---~-~~~~~.~·~ 
' ~ 

The Observer 
! 
Mountaineering#!.
f-----------------··--· .... --······-····=~·-· • 

f------------------·--· ··---·­
What is mountaineering all about? Funnyyoushouldask 
Because wejusthappento have ananswer. (Ah-h, life's little coincidences.) Mountaineering is a s~, a science andanart. Yet anyone _ :with a thirstfor excellence andnormally 

developed 

Step one, appropri­. ·· ately enough, -......,.·_ .. · · starts by select­ing the correct site. · To do so, pick up
a bottle of Busch'' Premium Beer. This is called headllg for the mountains. 
3Nowfor t tricky part. Neophytes, listen up: the proper pour
iS straight down o ....,..,........__ the center of the glass. Only in this way will the cold, invigo­rating taste of the mountain come to a head 
r skills canmaster it. Simply study: 
.....v-...-........, 
andfollow themfaithfully; 
a 
Okay, here's 

I where the fun be­gins. Hold the mountain firmly in your· lett hand, 
grasp the mountain top with your· r·ight hand and twist, 
the little fclla orr . Ther·c you go. 
poure~ pacing becomes paramount. As any seasoned 
I mountaineer will tell you, the only way to down a mountain is slowly, smoothly and steadily-savoring every swallow of the brew that is Busch. Ifyou're a bit awkward at first, don't he discouraged. Perfection takes practice. Soon enou&h, having emptied your and filled soul wiJl be a 
p;d' l Before · 
.. 16• Mau.nt;Uneering. 
~".2Dur•lrJ€
"'"16 Mountalnoor·lrJg. 
Premium Beer. 

Don't just reach for a beer. BUSCH~ad for the mountains. 

The Observer -SportsBoard Thursday' October 4, 1979 -page 14 
Baseball 
NATIONAL LEAGUE PLAYOFFS Best-of-live 
Tuesday's game Pittsburgh 5, Cincinnati 2 
Wednesday's game Pittsburgh 3, cincinnati 2 
Friday's game Cincinnati at Pittsburgh 
Saturday's game Cincinnati at Pittsburgh, n, If necessary 
Sunday's game Cincinnati at Pittsburgh, If necessary 
AMERICAN LEAGUE PLAYOFFS 
Wednesday's game Baltimore 6, California 3 
Thursday's game California at Baltimore 
Friday's game Baltimore at California, n 
Saturday's ~ame Baltimore at Califorma, If necessary 
Sunday's game Baltimore at California, n, If necessary 

Molarity 
Interhall 
FOOTBALL Wednesday's results 

Cavanaugh 0, Off-Campus 0 Holy Cross 7, Sorin 0 Carroll 6, S1. Ed's 0 
CO·REC SOFTBALL 11Hnch Championship 
Red-Badin 5, BD-Sixteen 2 

TENNIS The pairings for all.tennis tournaments the responsibility of the participant to contact his or her opponent and set up the mal.ch In 1 wch round. The results of all tennis matches tnust be personally turned In at tho lntorhall office no later than noon of tho following Wednesday. Failure to report the results to 
lnterhall office will mean disqualification of 
both participants. 

Men's singles [fourth round) Tom O'Toole (1026) vs. Kent Brockelman (289-1718) Brent Beutter (1786) vs. Chris Ritchie (233­5828) 
Mike Hickey (1693) vs. Lee Manfred (6755) 
Kinny McQuade (277-2120) vs. Mike Burton (1653) Bill straccia (3336) vs. Pat Navin (1651) 1 
Jeff Cook (1791) vs. Kevin Simpson (3381) 
Ken White (3542) vs. John Burke (8528) 
Women's singles [finals) 

Jay Declo (277-5842) vs. Eileen Rakochy 
(6885) 

Men's novice [fourth round) Karl Love (8657) vs. Mike Blnkle (3574) Roger Morgan (3217) vs. Ted Gutmann 
(3273) 

Mixed doubles \fourth round] Donnelly-Percy (3542 vs. Didier-Bernheim (8067) Finney-Ferrero (232-0384) vs. Dawson-Sullivan (8755) < Malus-Kotak (3285) vs. Hammer-burton 
1653 Mangine-West (6888) vs. O'Brien-Rivera 
a::::p::pe=a=r=ea=ch=T=h=ur=sd=a=y=in=T=h=e=Ob=s=erv=e=r=.l=t='s==Je=ff=W=o=lf=e::(8=91::::9)=v=s.=M=i=ke=P=Ie=rr=et=(=18=14=)==1=83=26::)========== 
• • . I.owenstein 
[continued from page 16] 
helped produce another run in the fourth for a 3-2 Orioles lead. 
DeCinces made it all the way to second when Grich dropped his pop along the right field line. He scored on a double by Rick Dempsey, who had only one previous lifetime hit off the California frreballer. 
Mark Belanger, a .167 hitter 


The Daily Crossword 
All Rights Reserved 

durins thelregtilar\;eason but a .295 lifetime hitter against Ryan, singled home Dempsey to pull the Orioles into a 2-2 tie in the third. Both those runs were unearned because of Grich's error. 
The Orioles' go-ahead run' in the fourth scored without bene­fit of a hit when Pat Kelly walked and moved around on a stolen base, a wild pitch and a sacrifice fly to right by De­Cinces. 
Palmer, a reluctant starter who thought Baltimore should have opened with 23-game winner Mike Flanagan, allowed seven hits-four of them for extra bases-during his nine­inning stint. 
by Michael Molinelli 

ACROSS 34 Corday's 51 Newsman 25 Dozed Speaker's victim 56 Walter-26 Elf place 35 Exist Mare 27 -Church 5 French 36 Student's 57 Disregard Societypainter concern 59 Don Juan's 28 Ewe's mate 10 Cutlet meat 37 Jeans stuff mother 
29 Health: Fr. 14 Part of A.D. 38 Twofold 60 Complete 30 Transparent15 Lively 39 Donkey-tail 61 Entice material 
16 Lazily fastener 62 Cab 31 Entourage17 Routine 40 Rib 63-French cup 32 Bondsman 19 Diviner 41 Basso Pinza 64 Ornamental of old 20 Springboard 42 "-of the 
button 34 Far from maneuver August 
neat 21 Make clear Moon" DOWN 37 Dunking23 Wallet item 44 Approval Beaver item 24 Exchange 46 Jittery creations 38 -Moines premium 47 Military 2 Over again 40 Musical 25 Infrequent . honor: abbr. 3 Peruvian 
ending

29 Power 48 Hebrew 33 Bean prophet 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

' 
Field Hockey 
Wednesday NOTRE DAME 5, SAINT MARY'S 0 
Scoring 
ND-Cathy Ray, 3 goals. ND-Pat Crowell, 2 goals. 
I RunnerS 
.----------___:-~ 
[continued from page 16] 
include: Marquette,_ Northern Illinois, Southern Illinois­Edwardsvi1le, Indiana State, and Northern Kentucky. An added incentive to the Gold Division contestants is that the top five teams this year will be elevated to the Blue Division next year. On the other hand, the bottom five finishers in the Blue Division will drop to the Gold Division next year. In general, all new teams to the tournament are placed in the Gold Division for the frrst year. An exception to that rule was made .tis year by Piane, as he promoted Illinois State to the Blue Division immediately due to their fine reputation in the past, and their high preseason ranking. 
The open race begins at 4:00 pm. Local club runners and team members not running in either the Blue or Gold Divisions are invited to compete in this event. 
The final division is a high school race for local high school cross-country teams. This race begins at 5:00pm. 
The planning process for this year's race began in August, when Piane sent out invitations to eligible teams across the country Besides teaching physical education classes, Piane has handles the double task ofpreparing his own squad and organizing the Invitational. He begins his fifth season as head coach on Friday. 
The Irish finished seventh as a team in 1978, while Michigan, Auburn, and Florid:Uinished in the top three spots. This year, much of the competition will come from the same direction. Michigan, Auburn and Illinois State appear to be the hurdles for Piane's crew. Nevertheless, Piane thinks his team will show an imprQ.vement over last year's performance. 
Perhaps the biggest obstacle for the cross-country team is exposure at home. Notre Dame is sponsoring the biggest tour­nament of its kind in the country and most of the student body don't know the slightest thing about it. 
''All student support is greatly encoura~ed,'' according to Piane. 'No one should miss the start of the races. They're something everyone should see. " 
The race will begin on the 16th fairway of the golf course. Another prime spot for observ­ing is along the second fairway. 

********************************** 
i Due to popu1ar Demand, ! * *
! The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's theatre will ! * *
* * 
:: otfer three additional performances of ! * * 
: * 
: HAMLET : 
* * 
* *
! on October 7,9 and 10. : !* For Reservations call the ticket office !* * 4 * 
'·**********'~*~i*Jl~***********.: 
N.D STUDENT CLUB OF LONG ISLAND Organizational 
meeti~g & ·elections Thursday Oct. 4 
6:30 

Latortune Ballroom 
' 
4 German 
offspring 5 Dog 6 Pointed 
arch 7 Food staple B Palm 
leaf: var. 
9 Wire 10 Sight 11 Actress 
Barbara 12 Waugh 13 Stringed 
instrument 18 Fusses 22 Asian land, 
for short 24 Roman courtyards 
43 44 45 47 48 49 50 
51 52 
53 
54 
55 58 
Arabian Yearn Pollution problem Removes, in printing Work on manuscripts Horne of song Holm oak Military units: abbr. Electrical units 
Certain 
bolt holder Beige Hollow stem Greek vowel 

r-------,
1 VILLAGE I 
I PUB I
I North of US 31 I
1 Outdoor Theatre 1 1 Modern Laudramatl 1 & Quality Dry 1 I Cleaning I 
I Open 7 Days/ I I Week 7-10 hone 683-8.833 
D-SMC 10% off Dry Cleanin~ 
B&B Storage · ~ Car Garages 
30% 
Discount 
ND-SMC Students 
3001 us 31 
South of K-Mart 684-5999 or 684-1155 


--~--------------~----~--------------------~~ 


The Observer 
Talmadge cites Ethics CominitteeI, findings as 'a .personal victory' 
WASHINGTON (AP) The the committee's final report Among possible violations list­Senate Ethics Committee said "a ·personal victory" for him ed by the committee were:The yesterday it believes one or because "there is no finding of making of false statements to more witnesses lied under oath willful or intentional miscon the ~overnment. during testimony in the investi­duct on my part.'' He said he -Tne making offalse, ficitious gation of Sen. Herman Tal-has "no reservations whatso­or fraudulent claims againstmadge. . ever'' to the Justice Depart­the s.overnment. 
Other violations of law, includ­ment examining the commit­-W tllfull evasion of income ing making false claims against tee's files and testimony pre­· :md ~ift taxes. the government and conspiring sented to the., panel. -Fatlure to keep adequateto defraud the government, also But Talmadge also said he has records as required by the 
may have occurred, the com­not de~ide? whether to fight. the [nternal Revunue Code. 
mittee said in its final report on committee s recommendations -Failure to comply with the the 14-month investigation of on the Senate floor. The · requirements of federal election Talmadge. senator had contended earlier laws. 
But the ~anel did not single that the recommendation to -Receiving a campaign contri­out any cnminal violation. Its "censure" him was a personal butions in a federal building in 
' report said only that it had victory. viQlation of federal law. turned over its files cp the Talmadge case to the ) ustice Department, which has jurisdic­tion over criminal matters. 
''Should the Department of Justice find evidence leading to the indictment or conviction of any member, officer, or em­ployee of the Senate, the com­mittee will take such additional action as is appropriate,'' it said. 
The ·investigation had earlier led the panel to recommend that the Senate denounce the Georgia Democrat's conduct as a ''gross neglect of his duty.'' 
The committee also rec­ommended the Senate requireTalmadge to repay $12,895 plus 
interest for overcharges made 
by his office of his official '6iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii•iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii. 
expenses. And it recommend-~ • 
ed he pay the interest on 
t*******************************'**
$43,436, which the committee I* ~ ~ *
an 

Last night's bright moon shines over jesus' outstretched said his office improperly col-* . ~e,~ ~~, : 
arms. [photo by Rick Dohring]. ected through expense over-* . ~ • ~U" * charges. * .(1~~ * ==================================================T=a=l=m=a=d=g=e==sa=i=d==h=e==co=n=s=id=e==rs : ~ ~~ : 
~ ry ~ ~\.c:, : 
:

Debate continues over Salt II ! ~~'lPC:, 1 ~~­
WASHINGTON (AP) -A to the presence ofRussiantroops in Cuba. He pleaded with the ! ~ .. ~~. ! 
divided Senate wrangled over in Cuba. Senate to ratify the SALT II 
the significance of the Soviet Meanwhile, critics of the treaty without regard to the ~0 .o,.'\)\J But We will! 
troops in Cuba yesterday as treaty continued a drumbeat of siruatioQ..in Cuba. West Germany's defense min­complaints about President West German Defense.Minis­~ ~y : ister cautioned that rejection of Carter's handling of the Cuba ter Hans Apd backed up the SALT II treaty would create isstie, calling his response to Carter's ·contention that Euro­i J. " Gather· The Following a "real crisis" for Euro-the Russians disappointing, pean allies in the North Atlantic pean allies. weak, inadequate and unins­Treaty Organization want the 
* * 
A band of senators, most of pired. Senate to approve the SALT 
~ Friday : 
them Democrats, held the Sen­In a Monday night address to treaty.ate floor for more than an hour, the nation, Carter announced "You cannot underestimate * * 
* * 
demanding that the strategic that negotiations with the Rus­the necessity of SALT ratifica­arms limitation treaty with the sians had failed to produce an tion for the future of NATO," •********************************* Soviet Union be considered on agreement that would change Apel told reporters after a its own merits and not be linked the status of the Soviet brigade White House meeting with 
Carter's national security ad­
viser, Zbigniew Brzezinski. 
He· said failure of the treaty would make the nations of Western Europe less willing to accept modern nuclear missiles to· counter Soviet SS-20 missiles now being deployed. 
100 Center 
extends 
Oktoberfest 
J20.00 ov.,. purch~•• ~mount 
years past, the 100 Center has 
been prompted to extend the Open 10 to 10, 7 d~.Y• ~ w"k 
festivities ovor a 2 week period. 
Featured will be German food and music. A wide variety of other vendors will also be I Rivet City Recotda present. Festivities will start on Friday from 4:00 pm -10:00 l.50970 U.S. 31 North 
Co-chairpersons ofthe Celtic Society Irene Dillon and Marty pm; Saturday from 1rioon-10:00 
3 mil•• notth of campua
Scanlon run the Society's first meeting of the year. [photo pm; and Sunday from · · noon-
by Rick Dohn'ng]. 10:00 pm. 277-4242 






Thursday, October 4, 1979-page 16 
by]ohn Smith meet. Last year's champion, Sports Wn'ter Michigan, returns to face com­petition from such powerhouses 
"It's not only the biggest, it's 
as Auburn, the preseason pick
the best!" 

to win the Southeast-Confe­These are the sentiments of rence crown; Illinois State, theIrish cross-country coach Joe favorite in the upcoming Illinois Piane. He is describing the Intercollegiate Championships; Notre Dame Invitational Cross­Eastern Illinois, a strong ..:on­
Country Meet, the largest tender for the NCAA Division IIcross-country meet of its kmd in 
title; and North Central
the country. Over 600 runners College, ·perhaps the finestwill compete at four different team in NCAA Division IIIlevels of competition. The competition. Other stron~festivities begin tomorrow at opponents include Drake Uni­2:00pm on the Burke Memorial versity and Cleveland State. 
Golf Course adjacent to the The top 10 individual finisher · 
The nation's largest cross-country meet begins tomorrow when Joe Piane and his Irish staff Notre Dame campus. 
in the Blue Division will receive 
host the Notre Dame Invitational. · · · The first Notre Dame Invitat­
awards, while the team with the ional was run in 195 5 under the lowest point total will captureleadership of cross-country the team trophy and the travel­coach Alex Wilson. Today, ing trophy. 
Piane is in charge of the event At 3:00pm, the Gold Division
Lowenstein blast lifts Orioles 
and the field has grown to its starts its competition. In thepresent state which includes 55 words of Piane, "The Gold
BALTIMORE (AP) -Pinch­Crowley fliea to center for the He tied a major league playoff colleges and universities, plus Division is astill collegiatehitter John Lowenstein hit a second out. , record by fanning the first four. junior colleges, private running race. The teams are slower, but three-run homer with two out in Appearing in a record sixth A dropped pop fly by Bobby clubs and high school cross­they are still good." Thirty­the lOth inning to give the playoff, the Orioles won the Grieb, California's normally country squads. 
four teams are competing forBaltimore Orioles a 6-3 victory openiPg game for the sixth sure-handed second baseman Notre Dame's team will com­both individual and team over the California Angels in consecutive time. The victim and a former Oriole, led to two pete in the Blue Division along awards. Those teams figuringthe opening game of the Ameri­was a California team appear­unearnedBaltimore runs in the with 20 other major collegiate to compete for the top spot
can League Championship ser­ing in its first postseason third. And a wild pitch by Ryan teams. This division contains ies Wednesday night. action. [Continued on page 14] the best teams entered in the [continued on page 14] Lowenstein, who had started Lowenstein circled the bases only three ~ames after severely with his hands upraised in 
Reds fall in 10
spraining h1s left ankle on Aug. triumph as a record Baltimore 9, sliced a drive down the left playoff crowd of 52,787 roared field line, near the foul pole~ on 1ts approval. He later was an 0-2 pitch from reliever John recalled from the dugout to doff 
Pirates' dreams come true 
Montague. his cap during a rousing curtain Doug DeCinces, who drove in call. 
CINCINNATI (AP) -When Parker drove in the winning World Series, and we're pretty a fourth-inning run with a Nolan Ryan, who has a 5-13 they were youngsters, Dave run and Robinson was the close to that." sacrifice fly1 opened the inning lifetime record against Balti­Parker and Don Robinson dre­winning pitcher in the Pitts­Parker, the Pirates' sluggingwith a single and was sacrificed more and has lost his last six in amed of playing ball for the burgh Pirates 3-2 victory in the r'ight fielder, grew up near the to second J>y ·Rich Dauer. AI a row, started the game by Cincinnati Reds. On Wednes­second game of the National Reds' old ball park, CrosleyBumbry was walked intention­striking out five of the first six day, they ended up as heroes League playoff. _· Field, and idolized such former ally after pinch-hitter Terry batters. Robinson came ~on for the 
• 
for the opposition. Reds as Frank Robinson and Pirates in the ninth inning and Vada Pinson. shut the Reds down with run­He was the idol of Pirates fans 
At age 28 
ners on first and second. Wednesday, singling home 
On Tuesday, the native of Omar Moreno with the winning 
...'0 ZJS'Ston 
nearbyKenda, w. Va., record­run in the top of the lOth
Israel at the top 0ifp, J Cl ,.. ·ed a save when he struck out inning. •
~ 

the Reds' Ray Knight with the ''Coming here has always bases loaded in the 11th inning been something special to me,"
It was hardly your basic idyllic week of 
to preserve a 5-2 Pirates victor­Parker said. ''It means playing
contemplative study in old accounting class. 
y. in front of Mom and Dad. It
The trees were lush and green, the coeds were 
Frank 
''I always wanted to play in means coming home."
as comely as ever, the boys at Sigma Chi were . . 
Riverfront Stadium," said Ro­As in numerous games this
LaGrotta 
Wait a minutel ... Wait just a copyreadin' 
SfKn'U Writer binson, who has been plagued season, Pirates Manager Chuck 
with shoulder problems this Tanner was forced to go to hisminute! 
year. "It was one of the goals bullpen. And Wednesday, heThis is sports writing? The stuff that what the subject." 
of my life. I've also had a tied a playoff record by using
tobacco-chewing, cigar-chomping, pig-skinned You have to figure he knows what he's talkingfootball fans want to read on the pages of the about. At 28, Israel is one of the youngest dream about playing in the [continued on page 12]daily sports section? regular columnists on a major newspaper in the Maybe... maybe not. But this was the lead country. And he just might be the most popular. 
for David Israel's Chicago Tn'bune column after Tn'bune circulation figures (and probably Devine addresses students Purdue thrashed the Irish on September 22. Israel's paycheck) prove that whether theyRead on and you'll discover that the subject of agree with him or not, people are reading what Israel's illustration was Boilermaker quarter­he writes. "And, like it or not, you have to admit October 3, 1979 
back, Mark Herrmann. But he could easdy have he's entertaining. A little controversial, 
All of us at Notre Dame--players, coaches, students and
substituted, say, Andy Hardy for Herrmann-­perhaps, but nevertheless entertaining. 
fans--have an opportunity this weekend to show what Notre with a few minor changes, of course. (Innocent "I do not look for controversy," he insists. 
Dame class means. I am suggesting that we all refrain from Andy never completed any of his passes--on the "I look for the truth. If that happens to be any type of retaliation for the treatment our squad receivedscreen, at least). controversial, well I can't help that. I like to look last year at Georgia Tech. 
But after think' about Israel·s latest fare, I for the finer details of a situation--the little ,;,;;;,;;;,...,.;;aiidiimliiiiitiliiliiiiii....,;;,;;d,;,;id"-'ii his point across as things that give a nice touch to a story. 
As we all recall, from the very beginning of warmups until
neatly as the beat Sometimes being subtle can get the point across the end of the game we were pelted with rotten fish,reporters who puke as well as hammering it into the ground.'' 
potatoes, ice cubes and various segments of rotten fruit. Instatistics at u~-(Spiced Typically, some of his most memorable pieces the fourth period, after Notre Dame had taken a substantial · boring quotes have resulted from head-to-head clashes with lead, whiskey bottles were thrown at the bench area, and've all heard sports world biggies. Last year's confrontation after a brief consultation the referee, who was from thebefore) after every with Woody Hayes is a good example. After Southeastern Conference, forfeited the game to Notre Dame. 
game. . Ana Ohio State had lost 14-3 to Michigan, Israel Upon my request the game was contmued and the Notre ~ive young. Dave an dared to question some ofWoody's tactics which Dame and Georgia Tech teams returned to their sideline.
'A" for effort be­made the ex-Buckeye coach quite unhappy. He proceeded to berate Israel mercilessly, but Israel
cause he does it in a Numerous apologies were received frcm Georgia Tech 
style that's remained unruffled. There is no reason
almost students, fans, and University officials. 
(WHAT?!!) litera­"That incident was not of my making," he for the actions of a few who may not even have had an ture. Which is claimes. "Woody was very upset because his affiliation with 6eorgia Tech. 
not to imply (God team couldn't score a touchdown and he used forbid!) that sports me as a smokescreen because he dido' t want the I sincerely request that nothing be thrown from the stands at .._--~~.-....--..-"""!"'_.,writing can invade truth to come out." Fortunately for Israel, he the Georgia Tech bench area. Let's have a good, clean the realm of art. escaped without being physically attacked. football game between two fine educational institutions. ''People sometimes lose sight of the fact that Very simply stated, this is another opportunity to show the
Can it? 
"Wei( it's not literature," Israel told me it is only a game,'' he reflects. ''Granted it is an world that WE ARE NOTRE DAME. before the\: big lgame at Purdue, "but I do important form of entertainment but you can't 
Head Coach Dan Devine

think there is an art to good writing, no matter, _[continued on page 12.) 




