• • . Irish rout MSU -page 8 
VOL. XN, NO. 24 
'M\.rrder is murder' 
John'Paul,II urges Irish peace 
KNOCK, Ireland (AP) -Pope , nonviolence to some 250,000 A young man rushed onto the 
cheering Irish youths gathered
] ohn Paul II took his peace podiUm as the pope was addres­pilgrimage yesterday to Ire­for a Mass at Galway's race sing the crowd and began land's most sacred shrine, in track. But he made a broader gesturing and shouting. Thf' the bogs of Coun y Mayo,and in appeal as well, telling the pope extended his hand to thf' · a forceful denunciation of ter­Catholic routh of the world that man -who wore jeans and a 
rorism declared, "Murder is a "mora sickness" stalks soc­windbreaker and appeared to iety.

· murder, no matter what the be in his 20s. Vatican aides It'd motives or ends. " "How many young people the man away still gesturing to The pontiff called the North­have already warped thetr con­the cmwd. ern Ireland conflict ''This great sciences and have substituted Another man shouting "I am 
wound now afflicting our the true joy of life with drugs, Jesus Christ!" dashed iottl a people" and appealed to the sex, alcohol, vandalism and the open area and toward the pope­Virgin Mary to ''cure and heal empty pursuit of mere material but was grabbed by two polit·e­
possessions?" he asked. It was
it... men several hundred feet from "Mother, protect all of us and one of the most explicit denun­the papal altar, police said. Tht' especially the youth of Ireland ciations yet by the 59-year-old man, 10 his late 30s, appeared from being overcome by hostil. Polish pontiff of the growing to be from India, a polirf' 
ity and hatred," he said. material concerns of Western spokesman said. Late in the day the pope consumer societies. Meanwhile, thousands of Rrit prayed at the little church of St. The P~pe's stop here produc­
(continued on page 3)
John the Baptist , then boarded ed two security scares. a helicopttr for a flight back to Dublin. But his second long 
day in Ireland was not to Board of Commissioners
conclude until he held a meet­ing with Irish bishops, in which he was expected to urge them 
faces inflationary· problems
to become involved in settling the Irish conflict. 
It appeared the pope's pleas b.Y Mary Fran Callahan Gn·g Sebasky, Student Gover· for peace were not persuading nmt·nt Treasurer, was not ex­the mostly Catholic guerrillas in Into the eadr hours of the pt:cted to have any figuresBritish-ruled Northern Ireland morning, the Student Govern­available until today. Sebasky to put down their arms. A ment Board ofCommissioners commented on the limited bud­nationalist spokesman in Bel­continued its Jc:-liberation to get, "The $17.00 student fee fast said the ''war of libera­allocate $128,353.00 to Student hasn't gone up for 4 and a half tion" would continue. Union, Student Government years. We have had to lessen
jeff Bot.t wine-basted hot dogs at St. 
Earlier yesterday, John Paul and over fifty clubs and organi­our commitment to the Hall
Ed's concesszon Saturday's football game. ­
made a similar appeal for zations that requested funds. President's Council. Next year, 
(Photo by Dave Rumbach] 
Due to a fixed annual bud~et, we might make an appeal to the determined by the flat activities Board of Trustees to increase fee paid by every student, the the student fee."


Russian tnilitar..y troops occuP.'V 
Board is faced with the problem The treasurer also added that of inflation. In addition to this, the process is so lengthy be­many new clubs have applied cause it requires a Board vote


japan -USSR disputed Shikotan on the proposed
for assistance. allocations. Bill Roche, Student Body After the imtial allocations have 

TOKYO (AP) -While Presi­Japan's parliament in a general said intelligence reports indi­President commented, "We ve been made, the budget then 
election set for next Sunday. cate they have about 40 tanks had twice as many requests must be totalled to be certaindent Carter wrestles with the and "some field pieces." Cuba from clubs and we split up the the proposed figures coincidequestion of Soviet troops in Japanese commentators sug­
Cuba, Russians have be­gested the timing might be and the Soviet Union have days to hear them. We are with the actual dollar amount to
the denied the troops are combat gotng through, taking our time, be allociued. If the figures do

come involved in a similar issue connected with the election, 

on an island just off Japan. especially in view of, the fact troops. and making recommendations not coincide, then more cuts are 
According-to a U.S. intelli­that the Soviet troops had The Cuba controversy set off to the clubs a~ well as fine required which again necessi­gence report, about 2,000 Sovi­actually moved in several weeks new alarms in the White House toothcombing Student Union tate Board approval. et military personnel recently earlier, part of a buildup over just as the administration had and Student Government to try Roche cited the cause for the were moved to Shikotan -one of ''recent months,'' according become confident that the to cut unnecessary expendi­increase in funding requests, four small islands off Hokkaido, to the U.S. State Department. SALT II arms limitation treaty tures.'' saying "We have taken more Japan's northernmost main is­The territorial dispute with the with th'! Soviets would win Because of this analytical ap­care to let people know that land. Russians over Shikotan and its Senate ratification. proach to the funds allocation, funding is available.'' 
In addition to being thousands sister islands is of particular of miles apart the tslands and importance in Hokkaido, where the controversies surrounding many thousand former inhabi­them .have some basic differ­tants of the islands -Japanese 


Dumpster fire blazes behind Walsh­
ences. citizens and voters -now live. Cuba, 90 miles from U.S. Carter, who has scheduled a 

shores, is an independent coun­television address for tonight by Beth Willard extinguishers, to find that a knight had a!so try_ where the Russians are on the Cuban issue, has brought a fire extinguisher outside. "Within officially welcome. Shikotan, said previou~ly that the Soviet Early Sunday morning a pile of trash next to a minutes someone from Security arrived '' 60 miles from Hokkaido, has dumpster behmd Walsh Hall flared up into a emphasized Chandler. ' 
troops in Cuba posed no threat 

been claimed by both the Soviet to U.S. security. large fire which had to be extinguished by the The officer (later identifted as Ray Garcia) Union and Japan since the Japan's foreign minister, Su­fire department. used all three extinguishers to keep the fire Soviets took it over at the end of noda, returning from the Uni­While the cause of the fire has not been under control until the fire truck showed up World War II. ted Nations, told reporters he documented, the Security department theorizes about 10 to 15 minutes later. But there were some parallels did not regard the Soviet troops do~sed, but not extinguished, coals from the When contacted, Garcia noted that the fire in the way the two controversies on Shikotan as a threat to Kmghts of Columbus steak sale may have been extinguishers were simply inadequate to douse unfolded, and in the reactions Japan's security. Ohira said his responsible. A large heap of cardboard boxes the flames which flared skyward once again as 
of the U.S. and Japanese government would take "ap­and paper overflowing from the trash bin the firemen pulled up. governments. propriate action," evidently a between Walsh and the Knights of Columbus The fire alarm at Walsh was not the only one The Soviet-Cuban issue was protest to Moscow. Hall ignited in a 10 to 15 foot blaze. of the evening, Garcia revealed. Alarms wert:­
forced on President Carter by ] apan's Defense Agency has Tracie Paris, a resident of Walsh, stated that reported by three men's dorms earlier in the two U.S. senators, both Demo­taken the position that the she and a friend were in her second floor room evening, although the fire reported by W alsb crats facing re-election in 1980. troops are ''def~nsive,'' and overlooking the site and smelled smoke. "We was the only one that turned out to be real. 
Shikotan has its own political speculates that 260 tanks, 300 looked out the window and there were flames "Howard, DilJon, and Fisher, in that order, overtones. First leaked to armored personnel vehicles, shooting up from the dump," she said. She called in alerts," Garcia said. While the tumult 
Japanese reporters in Washing­anti-aircraft missiles and roc­. reported the fire to Walsh rector Sr. Kathleen in Howard was attributed to a faulty alarm, d1t' ton, it captured the headlines tn kets are on the islands. Rossman, who ·then contacted Security at other two were apparently due to pranksters.
Tokyo in the midst of Prime approximately 12:45 a.m.
The United States has called ''I'd lik~ to catch just one of the guys who pulled 
Minister Masayoshi Ohira's the troops in Cuba combat Rossman and assistant rector M.C. Chandler campaign to tighten his grip on troops, and President c;;r i immediately rushed to-the -scene with· two fire l. [~ontinued on page Jl. 
-----· ··------~
I 

..4 
I 
I ,..,.... I I' I 




News in brief 
Monday, October 1, 1979 -page 2 

Mao ~ets mixed reviews as China enters new decade 
PEKING (AP) -China entered its fourth decade today with 1 
. some words of praise for Mao Tse-tung, some criticism of him, and a national policy that owes more to his old adversaries than to him. On the eve! of the 30th anniversary of Communist rule, 5,000 people shared a toast yesterday with Mao's successor, Communist Party Chairman Hua Guofeng (Hua Kuo-feng) in the Great Hall of the People.. The party leadership at the l>anquet looked, with some exceptions, like a rol~ call of the Maoist era's victims -old men and women purged by Mao in the turbulent1.ears since .the 1949 revolution. Reunited, they aim to tur()Chinainto a 
modern nation by the year 2000. 
Balloonists continue 

set distance record 
TOPEKA\ Kan. (AP) -A helium-filled balloon was headed back toward its projected course yesterday as the four adventurers aboard continued their attempt to make the first coast-to-coast balloon flight. The balloon had drifted over the western portion of Kansas overnight as it gradually changed direction to the more northerly direction, toward its original course. Aboard the 100-foot high balloon are Vera Simons, of McLean, Va.; Fred Hyde, an eye surgeon from Prairie Village, Kan.; Rudolph Enselman of Boulder, Colo., and NBC-TV cameraman Randy Birch. 11he four adventurers lifted off Wednesday from Tillamook, Ore., hoping to be the first' persons to fly non-stop in a balloon across North Amenca. The crew set a long-distance flight record Friday for 
balloonists in the continental United States. 
Man breaches papal securi~y as pope addresses mass 
GALWAY' Ireland (AP) -A young man breached tight security Sunday around Pope John Paul II as the pontiff was addressing a Mass attendea by 300,000Joung people here. The pope smiled, beckoned htm forwar and placed a hand on hts shoulder and the incident passed without danger. Unchallenged, he slowly walked UJ? the red carpet leading to he 40-foot-high altar and stood behmd the/ope as the pontiff addressed the crowd. The pope smile at the man and extended his arm, touching him. Two priests then quietly escorted the youth back into the crowd. 

Court rutin~ overturns 
order on. train runs 
.... 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The Supreme Court overturned yesterday a lower court order which would have required Amtrak to continue running its New York-KansasCity train, 
the National Limited, after Sunday. The ruling does not affect four other trains whose future is being contested in other courts. Amtrak spokesman Jim Bryant said there would be no immediate appeal of another court order requiring passenger service to continue on three other jeopardized routes originating in Chicago and going to Seattle, Houston and Miami. And Amtrak issued oraers Sunday night to ftain crews and its own employees to prepare to run those contested trains Monday.
I ·.1 
IWeather 
i 
LI; Partly sunny today. High in the low to mid 70s. Partly c:loudy tonight and torr.orrow. Low tonight in the upper 40s. High tomorrow near 70. 


Camp~us.;;..__-----~ 
6:45 ROSARY daily at GROrt"O 
7,9,11 pm MOVIE "Summer of '42," K OF C HAll. 
admissiOn $1. members admitted free. 
7 pm LEC11JRE ''the contraceptive ethic: abortion-­natural family planning. speaker, dr. paul marx. LIBRARY AUD. no admtssion. 
7 pm BUSINESS MEETING sponsored by texas club. BALLROOM OF LAFORTUNE 
7 pm MEETING rook & euchre card club. sponsored by r & e card club. new members welcome. BALLROOM OF , LAFORTUNE ,
......................................... 


Starting in October Counseling Center holds workshops 
by Michael Moder and what skills they did not put ment rate after having attended to_· . u_se. one or more workshops, he Startin~ in October, the Life and Career Planmng ts said. Counselmg Center Staff will be the topic ~f the next workshops. Although all classes are free, 
1conducting workshops that may These wtll take place October • some have limited openings so improve a student's cliances of 31, November 7, and 14, from all are encouraged to sign-uplanding the job of his choice. 7-9 p.m. This cla~s !"ill benefit for the workshops· early, For 
The workshops consisting of sophomores and Jumors as more information contact the four different programs design­they attempt to narrow down Counseling Center at 1717. ed to improve skills in asser­their caeer choices. tiveness, studying, career plan­The fmal workshop in the 

Comm• • 

ning and interviews, are open series, Study Skills, will take lSSton 
to all students from Notre Dame place November 5 and 6 from · 11 t• '·etS 

and Saint Mary's. The classes 7-9 p.m. -This class will help Se S lCl\! 
are conducted free of charge. 

students learn techniques in 
to see Pope

The ftrst workshop to be held organizing their studying and will be on Assertiveness Train­
will benefit freshman and soph-Saint Mary's spiritual commis­ing. This class will be held on omores the most. All students sion announces that space is 
four separate dates, October 

are encourage to attend. available for 165 students want­2, 4, 9, 11, from 7:00-9:30 p.m. The workshop will meet in the ing to go to Chicago and see the According to Greg Meimeyer, Counseling Center of Notre Pope. Saint Mary's and Notre 
Assistant Training Coordinator 

Dame which is in room 400 of D'ame students interested in of the Counseling Center, this the Administration Building. going to Chica~o must purchaseprogram is designed·to •imptrove ":rhe programs will emphasize their ticket tomght, at 7 p.m. in tnteraction on interpersonal involvment using techniques the lobby of LeMans Hall at 
levels and sharpen social such as roleplaying and discus-Saint Mary's. Tickets cost skills. sion groups. $16.50forthe day which 
On October 16 and 18, the Meimeyer said that in the past takes place Friday, Oct. 5. Counseling Center will hold a these programs have been very Buses wil leave at 8 a.m. and class on Job Interview Skills, successful. Students have indi-plan 'to return by 8 p.m. also from 7-9:30 p.m. Students will learn basic princtples to follow during job interviews, and then participate in inter­view situations. They will then watch themselves on videotape, and find our what they did right 

Hesburgh 
•

accompantes 
FAMOUS FRIED CHICKEN


Mondale

Father Theodore M. Hes-l ._ 1636 N. Ironwood 
burgh, president of the Univer­sity ofNotre Dame is a member of a group of private citizens accompanying Vice President Walter Mondale to Panama for the signing of the canal treaties 



It takes more 
today. Later this week Hesburgh and his special assistant, Msgr. 

than a degree in 
John J. Egan, will attend a reception given by President Carter for Pope John Paul II on 

engineering
the south lawn of the White House on Saturday afternoon. Hesburgh will also attend an 
to make you an
October 7 meeting at Catholic 
University of America in Wash­
• 
ington at which the Pope will 


engineer.
address Catholic educators. ' 
You're working hard for your degree in engi­
neering. But what will you do when you get 

~The Observer_ -­
Night Editor: John Smith 
it? Where will you get the practical ex-peri­
Asst. Night Editors: Hilary 
ence you need to make that degree pay off? 
Clement, Darrel Nolan 1 
Copy Editor: Lynne Daley 
More and more people like yourself are 
News Editor: Mike Lewis, 
discovering that one of the best places to get 
Ellen Buddy 
on-the-job engineering experience is in the 
Editorial Layout: Joe Rodri­
1 
U.S. Navy. As a commissioned officer in the 
guez 1 
Civil Engineer Corps. 
Sports Layout: Mark Perry ! 
Don't let the word "civil" mislead you. The
Typists: Paula Shea, Beth . 
Wtllard, Mary Beth Budd, 
Navy's looking for applicants with degrees in 
Marilyn Broderick 
electrical, mechanical, industrial, architectural, 
EMT: Terri Blazi 
construction, nuclear and chemical engi­
Proofreader: Mike Onufrak 
neering, too.
NDDay Editor: Bob Bernoski 
The standards are high. And the opportun­
SMC Editor: Lisa Stanczak 
Ad Design: Dave Wood,1 
ities impressive. You'll have a chance to 
Anne fink 
travel. Stretch your mind. And get your hands 
Photographer: Dave Rum-,' 
on projects you couldn't expect to touch for 
bach 
years in civilian life.
Guest Appearances: Beth 
Think you measure up to a get-ahead job·
Willard 
like this? Why not find out. 
See the Naval Officer representative when 
Tilt Obumr (USPS -121) Ia 
published Monday through Friday o­
he visits your placement office on Oct 3 & 4 
cept during mm1nd V..U. perildl. The Observer 11 publlsllld by • ltlldentl crf Nlltrl Dlllll IIIII Slilrt 
Want faster action? Call L T Dave Barthold 
Miry's Clllegl. S11111crtpae. lillY Ill 
(312) 657-2169 (collect)
llllrdlned "' $211 Jill' ..., 1111 ,.
IIIMitlrl frem The Observer, 1'.0. 1111 
Q, Netre b11111, IIIIIIIRI ... s-ci 
Navy Civil Engineer Corps.
diu Pllflll ptlcl, Netre 011111, 111­
dlant .... The O~er )1, I ,......... II 1111 

. 
• ~ ,,..... All•l"lfll....... rilflb ...--, ' ·, r , , , t , , • •.,., t • 1 ' 1 ' t 1 • t r f.,.., • •-, ., •, -, ~ ...... .,...., 4!. ......... "' ft "-"J •• ... '"• •••• •, 4t 11 
~. ~--------------~ 

.I 
1. 


football games. Here Tom Barnicle, class of 1955, tells his Andreo Gromyko returned to son Matt about his Dtllon Hall days. [Photo by Dave Moscow last week after meet-
Rumbach] ing in New york with Vance, he 
Fills audit~rium 


Carpentier lectures on'The Inklings' 
by Tom Koegel 

Noted literary critic and author Humphrey Carpentier spoke Saturday to a filled Hayes­Healy auditorium gathering about the literary grouJ? "Ink­lings." The group, had as its members orne of the most highly acclaimed and popular wnters of this century, includ­ing C.S. Lewis, J .R.R. Tolkien and Charles Williams. 
C~entier, the author of Tolk­ien: The Authorized Biograph­:'/', and is currently collaborat­mg on a collection of Tolkien's letters with Tolkien's son, Christopher. He classified Tolkien and Lewis as being ~on~ the greatest "mythop­elans . 
The word mythopeian has been coined · to describe the process of myth-making, a pro­cess by which Tolkten and Lewis created the new worlds of their literature. 
Carpentier chose the empha­size Lewis and Tolkien in his lecture, and he noted that their mythopoeic work was directly related to their love for Christ· tamty. 
Tolkien was a Catholic from 

childhood, and his faith was 
reflected in his most famous 
work, The lord of the Rings. 
"The Lord of the Rings," 
Carpentier noted, "is basically 
a Catholic myth. Incorporated 
in it are various Catholic refer­
ences, most notably to the 
Virgin· Mary.'' 
Lewis came about his Christ­

ian beliefs in quite a different 
manner. As Lewis himself 
recounted in some of his auto· 
biographical works, he went 
through a period in his life 
where he "was determined to 
be rational, and believed that 
there was no rational way to 
prove the existence of God, 
therefore God id not exist." 
''As his veiws on Christianity 

changed to the point where he 
could accept Christ and His 
resurrection as the important 
point of Christianity, Christian 
themes began to appear in his 
fictional works," Carpenter ex· 
Ptyl~eihroniclesofNarnia, a set 
of books that Lewis wrote 
specifically for children, " should not be interpreted as
~al.le~g~o~ry~·~b~u~tr•a•th•e~r~a~s~a~,-st~o.ry~o_f_.,t~.io~n~·~7-bu.t__th_e__e_o_n_se_n_s_u_s_w__as__a. ~===-=~~~·===-~;~·;::;~ 
Christ in another world," Car­pentier said. 
To~ether w~th his "space tril­ogy, ' which included the nov­els Out of the Silent Planet, Perelandra, and That Hideous Strength, Chronicles illustrates how Lewis transplanted Chris­tian beliefs into his novels. 
Tolkien's first work, but the or :: which was the last to be published was The Silmarillion, his effort to develop a set of stories for the English feople. 
"It is a collecuon o myths which deal with the creation of the world and the eternal battle of good versus evil,'' Carpen­tier stated. 
"Tolkien's elves, who are the main characters in The Szlmaril­lions myths, are nothi.ng but man without the stain or origin­al sin and the pain of mortal­ity. " Carpentier said "They are what we might have been, at least in Tolkien's view." 
"In contrast, Tolkien's most beloved and original char­acters, the hobbits, are nothing but, as he once put it, 'short Tolkiens.' ", Carpentier claim­ed. "They like the same things 
[continued from page 1) 
ish Protestants prayed an "amen" yesterday to Pope John Paul II's appeal for peace between Roman Catholics and Protestants in Northern Ire­
land. 
But few in the officially Pro­testant country thought the plea will end terrorism. 
''Most of otir churches today included prayers for the pope's visit to Ireland, " said David Watson, SJ?Okesman for 300 Congregational churches in England and Wales. 
''I believe that the vast major­
ity ofministers and members of 
the Church of Scotland will 
strongly support the powerful 
appeal that the pope has 
made," said the leader of that 
million-member Protestant 
~~~~.the Rt. Rev. Robin 
Elsewhere in Britain reactions ranged from rejoicing to rejec-. 




Vance, Dobrynin discuss Cuba 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Top 

U.S. and Soviet officials held a surprise meeting at t~e Stat~ Department yesterday as Prest· dent Carter remained at Camp David working on a SJ?eech concerning the Russian bngade in Cuba. 
Secretary of State Cyrus Vance 

and Soviet Ambassador Anatoly 
Dobrynin began their meeting 
at 2 p.m. but State Department 
S_(>okesman David Nall would 
g1ve no indication of the pur­
pose of the meeting or eveo 
which side had first suggested. 
it. 
Nall said later the meeting 

lasted an hour and 24 minutes. 
"I can't give you any idea what 
they talked about," he said. "I 
don't know.'' 
President Carter announced 

that he would address the 
nation today at 9 p.m. EDT 
after negotiations with the Sovi­
ets apparently had broken 
down, with the Russians refus­
ing to budge on Carter's insis­
"telll!t'fT1rthat-... they change the ''status quo.'' When Soviet Foreign Minister 
that Tolkien liked, and distrust the things that he distrusted." 
Carpentier explained that, Tolkien was occasionally taken to task for creating a mythology which was at odds with Christ· ian beliefs. 
"One gentleman wondered how he, a Catholic, could in essence rewrite all he believ­ed," Carpentier recalled. "Tolkien replied that the crea­tion of myth was the ultimate tribute to the Creator, because it emphasized the diversity and ability of his Creation." 
Isis hosts 
Andrews 
There will be an opening reception for Andrews Univer­sity at the Isis Gallery today from 6 to 9 p.m. 



, , . Peace 
welcome tempered by caution. 
"It may not win peace, but it's magnificent," declared a head­line in London's SundayTele­graph. 
That summed it up for many in Britain, which ruled all Ireland until 1922 and has stood un­easily on the sidelines of the papal visit, eyeing its implica­tions for the sectarian feud in the British province in the north. 

ROCCOS 
men's and women'a· halra\lllng ·at C~.· .. ble-~~~!)jta Ipdc.. 3··1 m1-h·l­
111...1
5 ~"'~~~• C gan 
• : .. ·.. ~-.·.~. ~·.;.49$}:: .. :.. 

'gave no indication whatever of 
· softening the Soviet position. The Soviets maintain that the brigade · which U.S. officials say has 2,000 to 3,000 soldiers, 40 tanks and artillery and armored personnel carriers · has been stationed in Cuba since the 1962 missile crisis w'rh the full knowledge of prf·vious American presidents. In a news conference Friday, cuban President Fidel Castro , echoed the hard Soviet \line and accused Carter of creating an 
' artificial crisis. Carter then huddled with 15 
FINANCE CLUB SMOKER atSenior Bar MONDAY OCTOBER 1
•


immediately following the 8pm meeting ·in Hayes-Healy ...,..,,.. M.B.A.'s welcome 
',t
'•_:-JUsT FOR THE REcORD­
1~ In the 100 Center offeta 1 • 10%offon '
I . 
EVERYTHING :.1 with ID & coupon
'L 
RECORDS, TAPES, ,paraphernalia 
----------~----­

-
• 



Greyhound's .quickcure for the book blues. 
The book blues. It's those sleepless nights with visions of 
exams, pop tests and required reading dancing through your 
head. They just won't go away. . 
But you can ... with Greyhound. Take off this weekend, visit your family, see your friends ... i.Jst get out of town and leave the book blues behind. It doesn't cost much and it'll do you a world of good. 
So, if you've.got the book blues, get on a.Greyhound and split. It's a quick cure for what ails you. 
To One-Way Round-liip Depart Arrive Chica~o 9.85 18.. 75 4:50p.m. 6:55p.m.
·Detrott · · 
20.95 39.85 10:20 a.m. 5:n p.m.Cleveland 26.90 51.15 11:50 a.m. 7:35p.m.Pittsburfh 40.05 76.10 8:20a.m. 8:35p.m.
Milwau ee 16.50 31.35 9:45a.m. 2:15p.m. 
• 
Z: -­

. ' 
, , , , , ,·, iC~~fr~~rfr_~~~~~~««N 
~etired national security offici­als including former secretaries of state Henry Kissinger, Willi­am Rogers and Dean Rusk. The president flew by helicopter to his mountaintop retreat Satur-. day afternoon accompanied by his wife, Rosalynn. 
White Hous spokesman Dale Leibach Slitid yesterday the president 1'1asspending the day working on his Monday night address. Leibach said he did not believe Carter had sum­moned any sp~ech writers to Camp David.,indicating he was 

o':er a .dra~t of the speech 

~-~~~ ---~-----­
. ' .... .,. ....... " .. ~ .......................................... "' ....................... ·-....... , -·------·-·-------" 




Editorials 
Monday, October I, 1979 -pa~ 4 
Students form nuclear disarmament committee 
A growing number of Notre ful. Therefore, we strongly 
Dame students, faculty, and t¥"ge all interested persons to 
religious have recently expres-cbntribute in whatever capacity 
st:d their concern over some they are able to . Persons from 
very important issues that af-arts and letters, business, en­
feet us as individuals, Chris-gineering, law, all the sciences, 
tians, Americans, and members and the religious community 
of the world community. These-} are encouraged to explore this 
are matters directly related to effort. If Notre Dame responds 
military expenditures, nuclear to this challenge, we may spark 
policy (power and armaments), other Catholic (and non-sectar­
a~d the possibilities of disarm-ian) universities to heighten 
ament. · students' awareness at their 
In response to these concerns1 c~puses. In the long run, it • 
an organization is now being may be our efforts that make all 
initiated to deal with these most urgent issues: The Student Committee for the Investigation of Military, Nuclear and Disar­mament Policy. 
The primary thrust of this group will be educational. It will attempt to heighten student awar~ness of such issues as nuclear power, energy;, wea­pons, military expenditures, and the real possibilities of global disarmament. Its focus will be discussion of the inter-economic conversion to a peace­time economy, the Third World, political realities in the Nuclear Age, and the role of church as a prophetic voice in the wilderness. 
Since the ~roup's orientation is educational, it realizes that to build awareness it must possess the tools to inform. We hope to increase knowledge about these the difference in securing peace for our children's future. If we fail to respond to the call, there might not be any future beyond our own generation. Let us pray that we make the right cho1ce. 
Fr. Hesburgh is to be com­mended for his positive com­mitment to our orsanization. He has seen to 1t that the necess~ funds became ava­ilable o that the Student commi ee could be launched in the 1rst place. Without his help, you would not be reading this article. 
We would also like to thank Bill Roche, Student Body Presi­dent, and Don Cleary, Social Concerns commissioner, for their complete support on this vital matter. The Student committee will function as an organ of Student Government, 
issues through a variety of under the aegis of Social Con-sources, among ·them films, cerns. • written materials (magazines, A special appeal is extended to books, special government re-faculty members in ~overn­ports), research material and ment, engineering,. sc1ence, occasional guest speakers. economics, business, and the Furthermore, we hope to locate humanities to contribute their a place on campus in the very expertise, critical judgment, near future where faculty, stu-and guidance to this effort. dents, religious and interested All interested persons are lay persons may go to find out asked to call Renee Leuchten more about disarmament, nu-3848, Rob Gabriele 8827, Tom clear policy, and military ex-Nobrega 1372, Chris Lyons penditures. Awareness is our 8828, Lou Reifschneider 1418, primary goal, not rhetoric. or Student Government, 7668. 
Because of the imposing com-, . . 
plexity of these 1ssues, our The /tudent C:C!mmztte_~ [or the gro·.1p will require input from a nveshgahvn.?fAf•'lttary, variety ofsources within the ND Nuclear, andDtsannam~nt 
community ifit is to be success-Poltcy. 
.-7 --­
.. 
.,.., 
~···t;o. ~·· 

---~~ 
-~.. 

-, 0 


P.O. Box Q 
United W~y 
decision 
clarified 
Dear Editor: 
As a voting member of the Saint Mary's Board of Govern­ance I would like to stress a couple of points concerning the United Way decision. 
Saint Mary's student body will this year, as in past years, choose a school charity. The Board, as servants of the stu­dents, will direct their efforts to support that charity. For the past two years, The United Way has been the only charity we solicit for door to door. It seems . much mor · consistent with our 
duty to represent the students ted women to volunteer their for us to concentrate our full services. What we are doing is efforts and time on the charity remaining true to the students' chosen by the students. 1 trust in us both as their As .a~~ocates of student re-1 r~presentatives and as respon­
sponslbdtty we are. not remo­v10g any opportumty for the women at Saint Mary's to act. ~e aon~al U~ited Way dri~e wdl co:tt10ue 10 St. ] oseph s County and there will be ample opportunity for anyone to con­tribute time and money. Our Development Commissioner Adri Trigiani will need dedica­

[Xx)nesbury 

stble thinking adults. So I ttsk the students of SMC to begin their own research in the area of our college charity and to 
keep formed.  us '  your  leaders in­'  
Mary D. Ryan  

S:MC Spiritual Commissioner 
by Garry Trudeau 


,SMC students challenge energy 'crisis 
The present energy situation is a world-wide dilemma, one which often seems beyond our immediate range of concern. Until we are affected by shortages--of gasoline, of heating oil, of electrical power--energy resources seem to be at our command. However, in many respects, we do not control energy; energy controls us. This past summer the public felt the impact of gasoline shortages and was forced to readjust vacation plans and daily work transpor­tation labels. 
From this experience and other past events we have been forced to realize that we must educate ourselves in order to better manage available resources. Energy is not misused, but over-used. By becoming more aware of personal energy consumption, we may be able to better manage energy resources and in so doing, ease energy shortages. 
The state ofIndiana has named September as Energy Month. October has been named International Energy Month. In observance of 
t11ese programs, the Student Government and the Saint Mary's Affiliated of the American Chemical Society (SMAACS) are challenging the Saint .Mary's student body, faculty, staff, and administration to increase their awareness of personal energy consumption and as a result, conserve energy. Through more intelligent and efficient use of appliances, lights, water, and heat, Saint Mary's energy consumption could be decreased by 20% from previous consumption. -This is the challenge which Saint Mary's Student 
Government and SMAACS extend. 
Throu~hout the month of October, we seek to develop 10 students, faculty, staff, and admin­istration an awareness as to the amount of energy consumed by the college. It is our hope that this education in energy use will motivate the community to improve energy consumption 
habits.  
We  are  responsible for  what  we  use--and  
over-use!  
Pia Trigiani  
Amy Hartzell  


"HYP8 HeNRY: M&MO!RS 
ON TH& MA/<£1" 8R01JGHT 
70 >tV 8Y 71113 OIAS/3
HAMIATTAN IJANK•• 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 



-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ........Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ..................Mark Perry represe~t t~e opimon of a majority of Managing Editor..........Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46JJ6 the Edttonal Board. Commentaries Editorial Editor ..............Ann Gales Photo Editor ..............Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor .........M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail-Executive News Editor .. .... Mike Lewis Business Manager........Steve Odland o~spaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor....................Mark Rust Production Manager.......Tim Sullivan of the University ofNotre Dame dulac an~ . the free expression of varyin_g News Editor.: ... ............ Mike Shields Advertising Manager.........Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It does not op1mons on campus, through letters, 1s SMC Executzv~ Editor.....Ell~n BuddY. Controller..................Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the •.·~.fl~~~p~ge~_,,·:·.·.·.·.·.·.·:.·:::;.-.-.·.:.-..... •s~.~ News Edttor.....•.. Marg1e Brass1l Circulation Manager......Greg Hedges 
..----~--­
' .. '' .. ' .... . 
.·.·. ·.·.· '.','.".',' '-;..:,' ....... ;'.'.'.',' .~ 
--~~~~~----···~···4·~~~
Tne·. o·b_se_"rv"e"·r-------.. ---------. --------~--­

Belgian students compare 

untverstttes, lifestyles 
[continued from page 1] by Kelli Flint 
Two visitors·· from Belgium, on a three week stay in America, .,re guests of Chemistry Professor Dr. Emil 
T. Hoffman. Charntal Devuyst, cousin of Dr. Hoffman and economics student at the Uni­versity of Leuven, and Martine Gerard, optician and graduate of Leuven, arranged and paid for their trip. Their vactaion, which ends Tuesday, was spent observing the Notre Dame cam­pus and lifestyle. 
A major difference between Luevan and Notre Dame is student attitude, according to the girls. ''Notre Dame stu­dents seem comfortable and relaxed, while students of Leu­ven are more conservative," said Charntal. This difference is mainly due to the contrasting lifestyles of America and Eur­ope. "It would never enter a Lueven student's mind to wear shorts and a tee-shirt to clas, because he wasn't taught to see college as that type of place," she explained. 
The two schools also differ in their attitudes toward sports. ''Lueven students are not as 
athletically involved as Notre 
Dame Students," Charntal 
comm~nted. "Sports such as 
football are organized by the 
community, and do not gener­
ate a great amount· of student 
interest.'' 
Another 1difference between the universities is • the aca­demic situation. "Notre Dame professors help in every way possible to benefit the stu­dent," Charntal noted. "At Leuven, everyone is on their own. Exams are given at the end of January and the end of June. There are no assign­ments or quizzes between 
exams, so its impossible to · know your standing. Often its too late for a student tQ catch up before exams, if he's weak in a subject.'' ' 
''The Leuven students are in general mote competitive and less open1. ,than Notre Dame students. .T~e atmoshphere at Notre Dame is more fnendly." Charntal said. ''The concentra­tion at Lct~yen is mainly on studies, wW:te at Notre Dame there is ri}~re of a balance between snlfdy and social life," she added. 
The grading system of Leuven is based on the average_ of all 
• • . Fire 
an alarm. It's a real danger to otfiers." commented Garcia. 
Frances Tisak, a knight, told firemen that coals from the Knights of Columbus pre-game steak sale had been thoroughly doused with water and were "stone cold" before they were dumped on the bare ground adjacent to the dumpster. 
Grand Knight Tom Leibowitz cited the time factor (the coals were lit at 9 p.m. and the fire occurred 15 hours later) and stated that he thought it was unlikely that the coal:o. caused the fire. The coals were dumped shortly before the 
[continuedfrom page 8] 
ped back to pass and avoided-a linebacker blitz long enoug_h to throw a perfect strike to TonyHunter for a touchdown. · 
State came nght back with a drive of their own on the next series, ignited by a 45-yard kickoff return by Derek Hughes. Two long runs by Hughes and Steve Smith brought State to the Irish 11-yard line, but free safet}' Tom gibbons steP.ped in front of a pass intendea for Samson Howard at the goal line and returned it past Bert Vaughn was hit after he threw the ball, and was taken to the hospital for back x-rays, which later proved negative. 
Gibbon~· interception started another Irish drive which came up short, as Ferguson's dive on fourth down tatted to get into the end zone. 
The defense held the Spartans inside the five, and a 36-yard screen Jass to fullback TyBarber ter the MSU punt set up a 49-yard field goal by Chuck Male. the longest of his career. Bernie Adell, who gained 7 3 yards on 10 carries in relief of Ferguson, set up another Male three-pointer with a 34-yard run. The 39-yard boot was Male's eighth consecutive field goal and puts him within reach of Dave Reeve's record of 12 for 
a season. 
The Spartans launched their only scoring drive late in the first half, as Bryan Clark, the son of Detroit Lions· coach Monte Clark, took over for Vaughn at quarterback. Mor­ten Anderson, who was in the hospital earlier in the week with back problems, came on to kick a 53-yard field goal, the longest ever against the Irish: . '.'.·:.', 
blaze was sighted. 
Although Leibowitz quoted a rumor that a male had been seen lighting a cigarette next to the dump and could have thus lit the fire, he was unable to verify its accuracy. 
''Dumping coals is not our normal pro­cedure,'' he reiterated. ''This is the first time it has happened.'' He explained that ordinarily coals are left in the braziers to burn out and dumped the following week. 
"In the future we won't take any chances and will fill the pits with water. We recommend that other organizations do the same." Leibowitz said. 
• • • Ferguson 

Notre Dame destroyed any momentum gained by this last second kick, as they drove 87 yards on their first possession of the second half. Ferguson scored the first rushing touch­down of the year for the Irish, as he burst through a tremen­dous hole over center and streaked into the end zone. Ferguson's second score came on the next Irish possession, as Notre Dame faced another ­fourth and short, this time at the State 48-yard line. Devine elected to go for it again, and Ferguson took the pttc.h from Lisch, tightroped down the sidelines, and then cut back before striding _into the end zone. 
''That play was desi~ned just to get the first down, ' Fergu­son noted. "Coach said any­
thing you get after that is great. whatever happens, happens.'' Michigan State could not make 
it happen all afternoon, as head coach Darryl Rodgers noted. ''We thought without a dobt Notre Dame ws the best team we have played up to this time. They were exactly what we expected. It was our first physical game of the year, and we didn't hold up -to it very well.'' 
"Rockne once said that you can only play a few emotional games a season," Devine add­ed, "but with us every game is emotional. 
''Now we must look ahead to Georgia Tech. We know they will come in here fired up, but we'll have to play another emotional game like we did t,oday." 
BEFORE YOU PICK UP YOUR DEGREE, PICK OUR INTERVIEW. 
Contact your placement office for interview dates. 
r------------------,
I  I  
1  HUGHES  1  
I  I  

L------------------~
Cnnlting a new world with electronics 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F 
t' I I. o

t. t 

· 'lliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiill 
exam scores. Instead of fetter 1grades, a tid~ is given based on. :the cumulattve average. The . titles range from Satisfaction for a 60-70% average, to Most 
Great Distinction for an average ; in the upper 80%. 
Martine and Charntal were 

most affected by the attituede 
of students and members of the 
community. According to Mar­
tine, "People seem more toler­
ant and open h~~e, ~h~~c::as 
Europeans are more stilet." 
''There is more itlstituti~ to respect and follow in Europe · .while Americans are fre~ and 
relaxed. " · 
When asked whether they would prefer living in America the girls agreed that althougb they enjoyed the easygoing nature of Americans, they would have to spend a year or· two more here. oefore deciding to !'ltar.perm~ently. 
need printing ina hurry? 100 -11 x 17 posters only $10.00 '.20, N. Main South Bend 289-6971; the wiz of the printing biz! 

'' 
1'-:u~~l~~ '7'1 -CHIMES-­
now acceptin,g poems, fiction, 
photo_graphy and short olavs Fall Semester Deadline : 12/1/79 ADDRESS MANUSCRIPTS TO 
1. DR./MAX WESTIER 

QOd SpeciQI Guest 

Faith Band 
FRIDAY OCTOBER 19th 8 pm Notre Datne ACC Tickets $8.50 and S7.50 On sale now at ACC Box Office and Student Union Ticket Office 
·~ 

\IQ, 
micflael &co. 
.ooir.conceptJ 
Jomorrow'sHair Designs . • . Today,_. for Contemporary 
,1/al

-Men &·Women 
l:~,,,,,t·,\1
North 

Southland Plaia
~ 11le eui of lm DIM 

M1 E. trtlallll 111,....
•dison at lnd~. 23 

(219) 291-100T(2\ 9) 27,2-7222 


.. 
The Observer -SportsBoard Monday, October 1, 1979 -page 6 
Bowling Green 15, W. Michigan 3 

·Kansas St. 19, Air Force 6 Da~mouth 10, New Hampshire 10, Tie NATIONAL LEAGU£ Cornell 26, Colgate 21 Cent. Michigan 19, Miami, OhiO 18 
Michigan 14, C'alilornla 10 Leh1gh 31, Penn 7 
Cincinnati 27, Villanova 13 Nev.-Las Vegas 48, Hawaii 31

Baseball w EAST PCT.
L GB 
Colorado 17, Indiana 16•1ndiana St. 28,Massachusetts 20, Harvard 7 
New Mexico 30, New Mexico St. 16 N. Carolina 41, Army 3 X-Pittsburgh 98 64 .605 
·Akron 27 Ohio St. 17, UCLA 13Montreal 95 65 .594 2AMERICAN LEAGUE Iowa 30, Iowa St. 14Pittsburgh 10, Temple 9 San Diego St. 24, Wisconsin 17St. Louis 86 76 .531 12

FINAL 
Kansas 37, N. Texas St. 18Rutgers 38, Princeton 14 Stanford 33, Boston College 14

Philadelphia 84 78 .519 14EAST 
Long Beach St. 9, N. Illinois 3

Syracuse 52, Washington St. 25 
Utah St. 47, Utah 21Chicago 80 82 .494 18W L PC!. GB 

Louisville 31, Drake 21Yale 24, Connecticut 17 Washington 49, Fresno StNew York 63 99 .389 35X-Baltimore 102 57 .642 

Minnesota 38, Northwestern 8

SOUTH
IllEST
Milwaukee 95 66 .590 8 
Navy 13, Illinois 12Alabama 66, Vanderbilt 3
X-Cinclnnatl 90 71 .559 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL

Boston 91 69 .569 11 '12 Nebraska 42, Penn St. 17
Citadel 24, Appalachian St. 23
Houston 89 73 .549 1'12
New York 89 71 .556 13'12 
Pangborn 6, Howard 0
N. Dakota 20, Illinois St.O
E. Carolina 45, VMI 10Los Angeles 79 83 .488 11 '12Detroit 85 76 .528 18 Morrissey 3, Alumni 0Notre Dame 27, Michigan St. 3

E. Tennessee St. 28, Furman 24
San Francisco 71 91 .438 19'12Cleveland 81 80 .503 22 Dillon 8, Fisher 0Ohio U. re, Kent St. 13
Florida St. 17, Virginia Tech 10
San Diego 68 93 .422 22Toronto 53 109 .327 50'12 Keenan 6, Zahm 0Purdue 13, Oregon 7
Georgia Tech 33, William & Mary 7
Atlanta 66 94 .413 23'12
INEST 
Grace 19, Flanner 6Shippensbur9 St. 45, Slippery Rock 14Kentucky 14, Maryland 7X-Ciinched Division TitleX-Galllornla 88 74 .543 

Sorin 0, Carroll 0
Texas 21, MISSOUri 0

Kentucky St. 21 , Morris Brown 7
SUNDAY'S GAMESKansas City 85 n .525 3 Toledo 37, El Michigan 7

Miami, ~Ia. 6, Louisiana Tech 0
Pittsburgh 5, Chicago 3
Texas 83 79 .512 5 SOUTHWEST

Mississippi St. 24, Florida 10 
AMERICAN CONFERENCEPhiladelphia 2, Montreal 0Minnesota 82 80 .506 6 Arkansas 33, Tulsa 8
N. Carolina St. 17, Wake Forest 14 
EASTNew York 4, St. Louis 2Chicago 73 87 .456 14 Baylor 27, Texas Tech 17S. Carolina 27, Georgia 20 

W L T PCT. PF PA
Atlanta 7, Cincinnati 2Seattle 67 95 .414 21 Houston 49, W. Texas St. 10

Southern Cal 17, Louisiana St. 12 
Miami 4 1 o .800 m 78Houston 3, Los Angeles 2Oakland 54 108 .333 34 
Oklahoma 63, Rice 21

S. Mississippi 38, Mississippi 8 
New England 3 1 0 .750 116 54s_an Diego 5, San Francisco 3, 10 InningsX-Cilnched Division Title SW Louisiana 12, Arkansas St. 9Tennessee 35, Auburn 17 Buffalo 3 2 0 .600 154 104SUNDAY'S GAMES Texas-Arlington 21, Texas Christian 14
Tennessee St. 40, Cent. St.. Ohio 8 
N.Y. Jets 2 3 0 .400 120 164
Detroit 5, Boston 1 FAR WEST

Tn.-Chattanooga 27, Marshall 0 
Baltimore 0 5 0 .000 62 104New York 9, Toronto 2 Arizona 38, San Jose St. 18
Texas A & M 17, Memphis St. 7
Football 
CENTRALClev'llland 6, Baltimore 5, 11 innings Arizona St. 45, Oregon St. 0

Tulane 24, Southern Meth. 17 
Cleveland 4 1 0 .800 101 94Chicago 6, Seattle 1 Brigham Young 31, Texas-EI Paso 7
Virginia 30. Duke 12 

Houston 4 1 0 .800 117 108
Minnesota 5, Milwaukee 0 COLLEGE FOOTBALL SCORES Colorado St. 20, Wyoming 16
W. Virginia 20, Richmond 18 
Pittsburgh 4 1 0 .800 109 71
Oakland 6, Kansas City 5 EAST 
;Fullerton St. 17, Pacific U. 7

MIDWEST 
Cincinnati 0 5 0 .000 78 149 WEST 
California 11, Texas 5 Brown 31, Rhode Island 13 
==============~ 
San Diego 4 1 0 .800 142 81 Denver 3 2 0 .600 79 91
Molarity 

Kansas City 3 2 0 .600 103 60
by Michael Molinelli 
Oakland 2 3 0 .400 78 112 Seattle 1 4 0 .200 93 123 I'M 6LAD HEFf£, 

NATIONAL CONFERENCE EAST
JIM. PRisoN Wt>ULD 8~ A 
Dallas 4 1 0 .800 112 93
LOT WtJRS£ IF I FEL-T 
Philadelphia 4 1 0 .800 93 72 Washington 4 1 0 .800 114 67 St. Louis 1 4 0 .200 76 98 
ABANTX>NED BY MY 

FRIEM>S AIID FAMILY TOO. 

N.Y. Giants 0 5 0 .000 58 118 
CENTRAL Tampa Bay 5 0 01.000 119 71 Minnesota 3 2 0 .600 87 106 Chicago 2 3 0 .400 81 82 Green Bay 1 3 0 .250 62 73 Detroit 1 4 0 .200 84 125 
WEST Los Angeles 3 2 0 .600 84 78 Atlanta 2 3 0 .400 101 104 New Orleans 2 3 0 .400 121 129 San Francisco 0 5 0 .000 89 137 
SUNDAY'S GAMES New York Jets 33, Miami 27 Minnesota 13, Detroit 10 New Orleans 24, New York Giants 14 Philadelphia 17, Pittsburgh 14 

ACROSS 28 Pacific 48 Govt. agcy. 19 Tires 
Washington 16, Atlanta 7 C81-island 50 calisthenic 21 Priest's 
Buffalo 31, Baltimore 13 (college) group action garment 
Houston 31, Cleveland 10 

Tamoa Bav 17, Chicago 13 9 Vaughan off bivds. games 5 Dunderheads 31 A long way 53 Aves. and 24 Guessing
The Daily Crossword 
Dallas 38, Cincinnati 1:;. 





© 1979 bv Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Svnd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
--We Deliver-­
Finocchio's Pizza Parlor Come watch MONDAY NIGHT f()QTBALL 
I 
ND 
a:
""' 
J 
c 2
Clevrlmd Rd. 

on our four foot T.V.! 
Pitchers only $2.00 I Drafts jiust 504 with presentation of :!itudent ID 
of song 35 Foxx 56 Shrill bugs 26 Hinders 14 Melville 37 Homework, 60 -·:or the 28 "-Blind book for one road Mice" 
15 Atlantic 38 African 61 Unwanted 29 Attired island: country bulges 30 Russian abbr. 39 Made like 63 Secure 
range16 Proverb 40 Citified 64 Once more 32 Lies 11 Summit 41 Walk 65 Poems 33 Many 18 Jilted 34 Go horse­
wearily· 66 Vain 20 Opponent of 42 Pare 67 "Divine back 
a Rep. 43 Spindles Comedy" 35 Chews the 21 Encouraged 44 Punta del -author fat 22 Double 45 Dried up 68 Titled lady 38 Dueling 
curve 46 Knight and 69 Puts to sword 23 Per annum Cassidy work 37 Cut short 25 Residue 47 100 square 47 Certain 27 Bird bill meters OOWN soldiers: 
Stooge abbr. 2 Ringmaster

Friday's results 49 Site 
3 Shanghai 50 Out-of-date 4 Garden tool 51 Relative 5 Watch and 52 Small dogs do nothing 53 WWI plane 6 Soreness 54 "Animal 7 Smart­House" garb alecky 55 Getz or 8 Aperture Freberg9 "-of the 57 Dunce Kalahari'' 58 Verdi opus10 Hurly-burly 59 Judge 11 Excellent 62 Took the 
review bait 12 Gets on 63 New York 13 Word on a school 
towel letters 

Thanks to yoU•.. 
it works ... 
MANAGERIAL
for 

POSITIONS
ALL 
FOR WOMEN 
Why be a secretary when you can be an Officer. In the Navy, you can have a real 
OFUS 

job, with real responsibility, and a real fu­ture. Also a top salary, travel opportunities, and outstanding benefits. 
United Way 
I j I ·• 1• 
.... 
I • •• • 4 


For complete details, contact: 
See the Navy Representative at the Placement Office, LeMans Hall on 3 and 4 October 1979, or call LT Carolyn McLean at (3q)' 657-2169, 
collect.  
I  If  ";  1  • •I 1.. '  t  t  I  • •  
'  4.  •  I  •I.  J  
6  "  .. _,  I  

Oakland 27, Denver 3 Kansas City 24, Seattle 6 Los Angeles 21, St. Louis 0 San Diego 31, San Francisco 9 ( 
MONDAY'S GAME New England at Green Bay, (N) 

NOTRE DAME '£1, MICHIGAN STATE 3 Michigan State o 3 o 0 -3 Notre Dame 7 6 14 . 0 -27 
NO -Hunter 14 pass from Lisch (Male kick) NO -Male 49 fiald goal NO -Male 36 field goal MSU -Andersen 53 field goal NO -Ferguson 24 run (Male kick) NO -Ferguson 48 run (Male kick) 
Atten. • 59075  
MSU  NO  
First downs  8  19  
Rushing attempts  42  61  
Yards rushing  134  315  
Yards passing  9  119  
Passes camp. -attempts  6-12  9-15  
Had intercepted  1  0  
Total yards  143  434  
Fumbles-lost  3-0  2-1  
Penalties-yards  2-11  4-41  
Punts-average  9-46.3  3-34.0  
INDIVIDUAL LEADERS  

RUSHING-Michigan State, Smith 17-103, Reeves 6-35, Hughes 9-25. Notre Dame, Ferguson 28-169, Adeii1Q-73, J. Stone 8-35. 
PASSING-Michigan State, Vaughn 2-4-1, (-3), Clark 4-7-0, 12, Stachowicz 0-1-0, 0. Notre Dame Lisch 7-11-Q, 93, Courey 2-3-0, 26, Koegel, o-1-0. 0. 
RECEIVING --Michigan State, Middleton 2-8, Brammer 2-(-3). Notre Dame, MijSztak 2-23, Barber 1-36, Hart 1-27, Holohan 1-15, Hunter 1-14. 



-~------. ---~--~-----~-~-­
The Observer -Sports 

. . . Rebound 
[continuedfrom page 8) 
a 1-0 lead at the 42: 14 mark. 
At halftime, coach Hunter was encouraged that his team was still in the game, but felt, "They shouldn't have scored. We ~ot a foot on the ball and dido t clear it." · 
The second half brought better news for Irish fans. Notre Dame's non-existent ftrst half offense was resurrected. Sami Kahale found a hole in the Hoosier defense in the ftrst minute, but his shot from the left side carried wide. 
Quickly, Kevin Lovejoy and Kahale got another break going. Lovejoy fired fro~ close 1t. Mike Ma1 pounced on the rebound and followed it into the net only to have a handball violation called and the goal nullified . 
Soon after that sequence, Putna made a tremendous effort to bat the ball with his ftst away from Bill Wetterer in front of Indiana's goal. 
Notre Dame maintained its pressure until about thrity minutes remained in the game. 
frnally beaten. McGauley hit 1Mike Freitag with a pass ithrough the middle of Notre !Dame's defense for the fourth and ftnal goal with 16:31 left to play. 
In the locker room after the 
game, Hoosier coach Yeagley 
saw a big difference in Notre 
Dame from a year ago. "Last 
year I think they were in awe of 
us", he recalled "this year 
Still leading only 1-0, Indiana began to regain command. Betancourt worked a picture perfect give-and-go play with 
• • . Future stars 
teammate Pat McGauley for a 

2-0 lead with 29:03 left in the game. 
Six minutes later, Betancourt, a native ofHonduras, chipped a pass behind the Irish defense to Tim Walsh who shot .Past a fallen Cullather, who rnjured his leg. 
] ohn Milligan came in to replace Cullather, and after a number of incredible stops 
. [continuedfrom page BJ playing on the prep team last year and riding the bench so far this year, it really felt good to finally contribute.'' Tony Hunter was the nation's most sought after high school receiver last year. In his first two games with the Irish, the highly touted rookie from cinn­cinatl, Ohio, had a simple case 
sing passes under pressure. But Saturday Hunter hauled in a pass from Lisch and pounded over Spartan James Burroughs at the three for a 14-yard touchdown play. . . 
"I was a little nervous in the first two games," adrmtted Hunter, "but today's game really did a lot for my confi­dence. I was starting to get a hadn't been doing so well, but 'that touchdown really felt su­per. Now I know I can compete with some of the nation's best." 

1 

With youngsters like these joining forces with the likes of sophomores Bob Crable, Joe Gramke, Steve Cichy and Dean Masztak, the future looks to be coming up roses (make that 

~ ~--------­
Monday, October ( 1979 -pa,ge 8
S~orts 
JMao ~ets mixed r~v~~WI] 
to pace Irish victory 
by Mar~ Perry today. We worked together as SJ•orls Editor . a unit to make the count and ':Vhen a ruJ111111g b11ck carnes open the holes.'' 
the ball nearly 311 times every Ferguson, who gained 169 game you would think sooner yards on the day to pass George or lat~r th~ opposing defense Gipp on the Notre Damt> cart>t>r 
would find a way to stop him. rushin~ list, echoed ~oley's 
Vagas Ferguson earned t~e comments ''The offensive llflC hall 2H times for Notre Dame tn ws really up today. They hung 
tough, right in there-."
thci1 27-3 victory over Michigan Now only 281 yards shy ofState in Notre Dame Stadmm Jeromr Heavens's lt>ading C!l·
"'· Saturday, and the Spartans rerr total, Ferguson turned 1nl"uldn't even stop him the last his best [lertormanLe ot the runc hr touched the ball. 
year, highlighted hy H>uc~downThr Spartans spent moc;t of runs of 24 and 48 yards m the 
:hf day trying to halt tht" Irish third quarter, last
the score,offense, whirh erupted for 4'i4 coming on his final carry of theoral yatds, including 318 yards day.
•nshing. 

"We played a tremen~ously
"h11 the past three yeats that emotional game," wmmentcdJ' vr bern het r, it has always Irish head cof!ch Di!n Devirw.
1akr11 the offensive linr two or ''I am proud of the team ~nddu rr gamrs to get coordina · way they bmuu nl bat·k from rrd," rommenred Irish offen­the loss to Purdue.''
·,Jvr tat kle Tim Foky. "We "We hoped co he .~-0, but I'mnwnrd that line of Sl rimm:-~ge 
very hi!ppy to he 2-1. '' ..t'P"~II!P.IIr:"'"'NT""l:~nl~.....:~:'rll Team cmorion played a big .Wit"!-41't.a":"Gitll part in the virtory, as defensive With Pete Jlolohan fon ~:round] andJ.ohn Sweeney leading the way, Insh halfback Vagas
tarkk Snllt Zettek noted. "We 
l't'TJ!.tl.wm runs for more _yarda~:e agamst Mzchzgan State. [photo by john Macor]
.,..L.:,.• had a different attitude today, heumse we had to make up for the Purdue loss. We worked on Young talent consrsreot y ::~II week because 
~~~J;j!l agaiost Purdue we had good plays and had plays.'' 
Future stars emerge against MSU 
~liA·IIil The Irish had very few had plays on Saturday, as they by Michael Ortman 
Notre Dame's '78 campaign. really glad I could make a ..,._.,.._~~-dominated the line of scrim­
· Sport.\· Wn'ter 
Ty Barber logged just over contribution," said the happymage for most of.the game, but eight minutes of playing time freshman, "but Dave (Way­they couldn't rapitaliu· on their .. but Duerson was right there. on spe.:ial teams and when the mer) comes back, the job is his. 
ftrsr big scoring chanrc. A 11arber returned the kickoff to games were out of reach. So, I'm ready whenever they need
S1-yard punt return by Ty 
the ln~~h 28-yard line. understandably, little was me.''
Dickerson gave Notre Dame the Adell's final(y stopped after a known ~-bout this talented four­John Sweeney, Barber andb;~ll on the MSU fivr-yard line, 
36 yard gain. some. recently Tony Belden have beenand three running plays left .. .and Hunter's in for the Dave Duerson, the only defen­alternating in the troubled full­them within inches of thr goal score. 
sive player of the four, started back spot, relaying plays fromline. Devine clertecl to go on The radio announcer probably Saturday's game in place of the bench. But agamst the­fourth down, but Rusty Lisch s;~id all these things during injured cornerback Dave Way­Spartans, Barber made the first 
; w;~s stopped short on <1 quarter­Saturday's thrashing of Michi­mer. A member of Dan stgmhcant contnbuuon ot hts b;~ck sne<1k. gan State. It is ;~lso very likely Devine's outstanding crop of two-year Irish career. The Lisch, who missed the Purdue that a number of listeners (and freshmen, Duerson saw limited sophomore from our nation's 
, gam~ bcc;~usc of an ankle spertators) were pleasantly action near the end of the capital took a Rusty Lisch · spra1n, finally put Notre Dame 
surprised by the sparkling per­Purdue loss last week, making screen pass and scampered 36hoarfl. r:~rr the first
on the in formances of these players who two unassisted tackles in as yards to set up Notre Dame's
quarter. WJth the ball on the 
most had never heard of. many series. Saturday the first field goal. Like Duerson,State 14-yald line. l.isd1 Jrop-
Of the four, only one had Muncie, Ind. native made four Barber also sparkled on special[c.u'ltinurd nn pap,e 61 played a single second during solo tackles and added two teams, returning the opening more assists. kickoff 27 yards to improve his 
But his biggest contribution season average to 25.8 yards on was on special teams where five returns. he returned three punts tor 50 Another sophomore running yards including a ntfty 28-yard­back, Bernie Adell, surfaced as
Kickers rebound from Indiana loss er which set up Notre Dame's a possible heir apparent to first touchdown. senior Vagas Ferguson's spotby Gary Grassey Indian;~ pounded the b;~ll merc­in~ ;~bout the officials, you stop Of course, when Waymer's with an eye-opemng 10-carry,Sports If"n'ter ilessly into the Irish line of tl11nking about playing soccer.'' sore knee is healthy again, 7 3-yard performance. defense, as Notre Dame w;~s Defenders like Tom Crotty possibly this w~ek, . he will "In a way, it was my first
Rebounding from their 4-0 loss 
capable of only occasional burst and Tom Luetkehans, who return to the starung lmeup. But game at Notre Dame,'' said the to Indiana last Friday, the Notre of offense. All that lndiana sh;~dowed the explosive it is a big asset for any team to Ipswich, Mass. native. "AfterOame socce1 team came back to 
offense, though, produced only Betancourt all afternoon, know that that kind of depth is
defeat Oakland College by a man­[continued on page 7] 
one goal. there when it is needed. ''I'm
agea to throw the Hoosiers just
o;core of 2-0 yesterday on Car­
lif'r Field. The match began with instant a fr<~ction offstride by position­fireworks. The Hoosiers kicked 
Afte-r a scoreless first half, ing themselves to pounce on 
off and sent a long ball towards every loose ball and makingIrish forward Bill Wetterer 
broke open the scoring at the Irish goalie Brian Cullather. good clearing passes. Indiana's 
11:47 mark on an ass1st from Forward Armando Betancourt shooters were missing the net streaked in after the ball and high and wide. The Irish
senior co-c<~ptain Tim Nauman. leveled Cullather in the pro­g;~meplan, which was to remain
Notre Dame's scoring leader, 
cess. conservative and wait for
Kevin Lovejoy, netted an insur­ance goal fifteen minutes later Betancourt, Ill's l{'ading Indiana ro make mistakes, was 
scorer, was immediately working as well as had been
on a feed from Wetterer. The 
assessed with a yellow warnmg hoped, at least on the score­victory pushed Notre Dame's 
card from the officials. This admitted,,
won-lost record back over the board. Yeagley
slap on the wrist, though, did ''Notre Dame gave us all we
.SOO level to 6-5·1. Indian's no. 5 ranked soccer 
not af-pease Notre Dame coach could handle in the tJ.rst half.'' team came to Notre Dame 
Rich -lunter. But as the half came to a -Friday afte~noon, arme? with "It was a disgrace," he close, the Hoosiers produced
fumed. ''That was a set play the decisive goal. Jefftheir potenttal All-Amencans-· designed to intimidate Notr{' Sendobry's throw-in was
Armando Betancourt, Tim 
Dame. I can't believe a skilled trapped by Tim Walters, whoWalters and John Putna. They team resorting to that kind of then chipped the ball towardfielded ~ team with 15 scholar­play. That player should have
ship athletes. And they Notre Dame's goal. 
been thrown out.'' Betancourt's volleykick richo­brought alone S?me very .lofty 
Indiana coach Yeagley had a cheted off the crossbar.
goals--like wmmn~ a nattonal 
different opinion about what Cullather then batted the ballchampionship, for mstance.. 
But for more than SIXty happened. He denied the away, but the Irish couldn't 
minutes ~ Hoosiers had, in innmidation motive and added, clear it, leaving Rudy Glenn the wo;:ds of ~ir coach Jerry "It's a shame so much em­free to follow in the rebound for phasis was placed · on that,
Y~agl~y. "aU (th~y) .could [continued on page 7]
'· handle.'' SOtN because when you start worry-,
For mmutes I 

/Jat•t' Dueno" 
Defeat Oakland 









