·, 
Military draft -page 3 

VOL. XIJI. NO. 123 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, APRIL 1.7; 1979 

by Brian McFeeters 
United Farm Workers Presi­dent Cesar Chavez, visiting the South Bend area for the first time, will speak on Monday at 
7:30 p.m. in Stepan Center. 
Chavez is noted for organiz­ing the largely Mexican-Amer­ican migrant workers of Cali­fornia into the United Farm Workers (UFW), which now numbers close to 400,000 mem­bers, ~ccording to Newsweek magazme. 
The son of mi~rant workers, .Chavez began h1s crusade for farmworker justice in the early sixties, leaving a community service organization in San Jose to talk to over 50,000 workers throughout the San Joaquin valley of California. 
"We make a solemn promise to throw off the yoke of being considered as agricultural implements or slaves," Chavez told his supporters at the start 
Thirteen departments not in compliance with Honesty Policy 
by Kathleen Connelly Senior Copy Editor 
Only 15 of 28 academic departments at Notre Dame fully comply with specifications regard1ng departmental Honesty Committees as they are stated in the Academic Honesty Policy section of du Lac. 
The policy, found on page 28 of du Lac, states "The depart­mental Honesty Committee ... should be a standing committee appointed by the chairman and must include srudrnr rrprcseo.. 
fitaJ..JiiAiAII lild bg' committees 

Consumer price index rises one percent in March 
W ASHINGTON (AP) ­
Consumer prices soared 
another 1 percent in March, the 
government said yesterday, 
adding to concern that inflation 
in the economy is out of control. 
The annual rate of price increases during the first three months of the year was 13 percent, the worst quarterly burst in inflation in 4 1I2 years. Consumer ~;>rices in­creased 1.2 percent 10 Febru­ary. 
Prices increased sharply in March in all sectors of the economy. Food and housing prices were up 1 percent, clothing prices were · up 1. 5 percent, and transportation cost rose 1.2 l>ercent. 
The pnce of regular gasoline rose 3.8 percent to a record 70.6 cents a gallon in March, up from'68.1 cents in February and tation. '' 
Twelve of the 15 departments which adhere to the guidelines maintain standing committees with student representation. The other three departments appoint students as cases come before the committees. 
Of the 13 departments not fully complying with the policy: 
--three have standing com­mittees, but couldn't say if they included student representa­tives. 
--two have standing commit­tees without student members. 
--two maintain guidelines for 
Alfred  E. Kahn,  President  
Carter's  anti-inflation  chief,  
told  the  congressional  Joint  

Economic Committee the March price rerort was bad and said, "we stil have some bad months ahead.'' He said it was "highly unlikely" the admini­stration could meet its 7.4 percent inflation target for the year. 
The increase in prices for the 12-month period ending in March was 10.2 percent. 
Sen. George McGovern, D-S.D., said the March in~ crease was "an economic and political disaster.'' He intro­duced legislation to give Presi­dent Carter standby authority to im~;>ose mandatory wage and pnce controls. 
Although ~er has saicl he when necessary. Of these two, 
one provides for student repre­
sentation and one does not. 
--Four have no committees at 
all. 
Information was not available 
from two other departments. 
Student Body President Bill 
Roche said that the figures 
indicate that some of the 
departments are ignorant of du 
Lac or that ''if they are aware of 
the specifications of the Aca­
demic Honesty policy, they 
tpink that student representa­
tion is unnecessary.'' 
"It seems that there must be 
somesupervisionof the enforce­
ment ot the academic honesty 
policy in the future,'' Roche 
added. 
0. Timothy O'Meara, Uni­versity Provost, was unavail­able for comment. 
The three departments which do not have student representa­tion on their committees are in direct violation of du Lac aca­demic honesty policy as are the four departments which indi­cared that they have no honesty committee. 
Several departments indi­cated that they did not appoint a committee because there was no need for one, and that disputes would be handled by the chairman. 

University Registrar Richard Sullivan sa.td, however, "You can see that because of disuse, there would be some sliding. But, of course, that's not an excuse for not having a commit­tee." 
Sullivan suggested that it is primarily the responsibility of each department to set up a11d maintain it$ Hon,esty CoJJUllit· 
·· ·'· ~ ~ges! men~~ ·~e. , . , ! ... ·, J~o'tjfi~ oi(/Ntg,, 1J ·i· .• ... Jfiil•tinutl011. jNig~ B) 
,;~;r ···-:!~;(:~·.:,;_~:_:~W!;~ti~,;~..-~_·_);_f · '_:., ,~~-:·.'5)1. · .:::<,·.·.. ;:i·;~t!:; ·r:~' 
';1 , ...;.· -:-·..~.J· . 
. ~; ·. :,·. 

does not want such authority 'tee, but that it woUld be helpful and would Qot. use it ifhe had it, if -~e de~s of. the. Colleges, 
In Stepan Center 



Chavez to speak Motiday 
of the grape strike and nation­the (grape) strike means the 
Wide boycott in the late sixties blood of one growner or one 
according to Time magazine. growner' s son, or one worker or 
In 1969, Chavez received one worker's son, then it isn't additonalattention and the sup­worth it." · · port of such diverse people as Incidents of violence have Mayor Richard Daley of nevertheless been associated 
Chicago, writer Gloria Steinem, with the fifteen years of ''Ia 
and Senator George McGovern. causa" (the cause) in C.ili­
The boycott was successful in fornia, and ·Chavez remains 
that year, reducing sales of controversial. 
table grapes by up to 12 
This past February, a farm-.

percent, and several large vine­
worker was· killed in a dispute

yards agreed to negotiate con-. 
with farmers in southern Ca_lif­

tracts wah the farmworkers. 
ornia, who .have complained of

Since then, Chavez, now in 
repeated sabotage of ·their

his early fifties, has continued 
equipment by UFW agitators. 

his campaign to represent the 
Chavez is presently suppqrt­

migrant worker, despite almost 
ing a boycott of United Brands

crippling back trouble. 
C<?., owner of Iceberg lettuce

Last ) une, Chavez and his 
farms and Chiquita bananas, to

wife were arrested in Yuma, 
aid the lettuce strike now in

Arizona for defying a court 
order and leading 30 pickets 
into a teamsters controlled can­He has also ·supported the 
taloupe field. Farm Labor Organizing Com­
Not all of his encounters with mittee of Ohio (FLOC}, whose 
authorities have been so un­boycott of Campbdl's and 
pleasant. Early in 1978, Chavez Libby's may be extended to the 
accepted a $500,000 grant from Notre Dame Campus by a 
Labor Secretary Ray Marshall referendum next Thursday. He 
to be used in teaching English is also a friend of FLOC 
to migrant workers and their President Baldemar Velasquez .. 
children. Velasquez and a contingent 
Chavez claims to emulate of Ohio farmworkers will come 
pacifist Mahatma Gandhi. He to Notre Dame on Monday 
told Lme magazine in 15>65), "If tg hear Chavez speak 
Activities director announces departure 
by Michael Onufrak StaffReporter 
John Reid, director of Stu­
dent Activities, revealed yes­
terday that he will be leaving 
Notre Dame at the end of the 
semester to become director of 
the Seattle-based channel, an 
organization devoted totraining 
youn~ adults for lay ministry. 
Re1d has served as director of 
Student Activities for the past 
year, and was assistant director 
of Student Activities for the 
preceding three years. 
According to Fr. John Van 
Wolvlear,, vice president for 
Student Affairs, Reid's 


successor will come from adver­john Reid 
tisements placed in national 
publications. Reid, a member of the interviewin~ committee, said · he thought the committee would begin interviewmg applicants the week of May 14. He added that the new director of Student Activities should be found before graduation day. 
Reid began his association with Notre Dame in 1965 when he 
enrolled as a freshman. He subsequently entered the Arts and 
Letters-Engineering program and was gr~duated after five years 
in 1970. 
He taught at Queen of Peace high school in Chicago following 
graduation until his return to Notre Dame in 1974 as a lay student 
at Moreau Seminary. He received a masters of divinity degree in 
1976 and later took a second masters insciencein admmistcation. 
In 1977 he was a member of the committee to evaluate 
coeducation. · 
Reid has been married to former Maureen Kelly since 1972. The 
couple has one son,1 Timbthy, aged 14 months, and is expecting 
another clill4 Jaf'tMJ.v .ic;Ptember. 
. "l hope t~':bi/Mfe~~use my.s~lls as an administrator and as a 
lay_person w1,~ . ¢e;~~¥>~ t~DJt to enco~e young ~pie_ to 
see the . '__ . ·~e ~r al.t . vc. . Rtitf sa~d, 
0 

. t• • , I , ' '' • ' I • ,., ',' ~ '. • • • :• J $. , ,> t! ~ "'' t If' 
. ,. 
. I 
..... ,1_•/ .• 






News in brief 
NRC postpones decision on closing eight plants 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Nuclear Regulatory Commis­sion postponed a decision yesterday on a recommendation to close eight nuclear power plants. The head of a presidential commission said the NRC will be one target of its investigation into the Three Mile Island accident. The NRC announced that it would delay until today a decision on a recommendation by staff specialists who have called for closing atomic power plants similar to the Three Mile Island facility. facility. The NRC staff proposed Wednesday that the power plants, located in Arkansas, California, Florida, South Carolina, Ohio and Pennsylvania, be closed for safety reviews and modifications because they pose an ''undue risk" to public safety. 

Weather 

Pardy cloudy and cool today. High in the low 50s. Partly cloud}' and cold at night. Low in the low 30s. Panty cloudy Saturday. High again in the low 50s. A slow warming trend Sunday through Tuesday with chance of showers about Monday. High Sunday in the 50s. 
Friday, April 27, 1979 

1:4S pm--SYMPOSIUM, "environmental geolgy in concept & practice," dr. david smith, C.C.E. AUD. 
2:30 J?ffi··SYMPOSIUM, "the logical demands in making histoncal inference~·-illustrated by a contemporary prob­lem," dr. david steams, texas a&m, C.C.E. AUD. 
3 pm--TENNIS, nd men vs michigan state 
3-6:30 pm--STEAK SALE, K OF C HAll 
3:30 pm--LECTIJRE, "philosophical questions about his­tory,' david carr, u of ottawa, UB. LOUNGE 
4 pm--SYMPOSIUM, "continental drift--from heresy to orthodoxy," dr. robert dietz, arizona state u., C.C.E. AUD. 
5-6:30 pm--VOTING, for ugly man on campus, DINING HALLS 
5:15 pm--MASS & DINNER, at the BULLA SHED 
6:30 pm--DINNER, sigma Xi, MORRIS INN 
7:30 pm--RECITAL, voice students of becky stauffer, CROWLEY HAll 
8 pm--THEATRE, "amphytrion '79," O'LAUGHUN AUD. 
8 pm--CONCERT, contemporary music festival, UTTLE TIIEATRE 

Saturday, April 28, 1979 
8:30 am-SYMPOSIUM, "dynamics of catastrophic land­. slides," dr. barry voight, penn. st., C.C.E . .AUD. 
9:45 am--SYMPOSIUM, ''the early evolution of anim4llife in the seas, or how predictable is the history of life?" dr. john sepkoski, C.C.E. AVO. 
10 am--AWARDS CEREMONY, naval rotc parade STEPAN 
FIELD ' 
1 pm--BASEBAU, notre dame vs. u. of cincinnati, JAKE KLINE FIELD 
8 pm--THEATRE, "amphytrion '79," O'LAUGHUN AUD. 

Sunday, April 29, 1979 
1 pm--MEETING, ham radio club, GRACE PENTHOUSE 
kEfln·BASEBALL, notre dame vs xavier, JAKE KLINE 
8 pro--PERFORMANCE, samuel adler, U'ITI.E THEATRE 


Fdday, April 27, 1979 -page 2 
Ending military dictatorship 


Ecuador to becom.e dem.ocratic 
QUITO, Ecuador (AP) ­Ecuadorians will end their mili­tary dictatorship Sunday by electing a president and cong­ress, becoming only the third country in South America to be ruled by a civilian democracy. 
Soldiers and statesmen throughout South America likely are circling the date on their calendars, asking them­selves if a South American military dictatorship can trans­fer power to elected civilian leaders. 
There seems no turning back in Ecuador, an oil-producing country on the western bulge of the continent. The counter., pla~ued with political instabil­Ity m recent years, has been 
_The Observer_ 
Night Editor: jim Rudd Asst. Night Editors: Rod Beard, Ann Monaghan Layout Staff: Mary Dumm, Nano Wright Editorial Layout: Greg Hedges Features Layout: Lynn Tyler, Margaret Kruse Sports Layout: Gary Grassey Typists: Mark Perry, Katie Brehl, Lisa '·4JiValerio, Paula Vernon ' Night Controllers: Kim Convey, Mardi Nevin Day Editor: .. Keith Melargno · Copy Reader: Phtl Cackley Ad Design: Chris Slatt 
and d lady friend Photographer: Phil johnson 
1'111 OIIII!Wr (USPS • 121) Ia pulllltilld MOIIdly ..Fttdly. •· Clpl durt..aam •lid _..... plltldl.The Observer II publllllld fly till ltUdlntl of Notn 011111 IIIII llltt Mary's Cllllgl. 11...,...._ lillY Ill Jllnllald ... $2D I* ,., 1$11 c 
.._.,Ifrlm The Oblerver, P.O. Q, Notre bi!M, lndlllll 481. .... ollll Pllllal Plld, Ntlrl 011111, In­


dia•·-.
The Obaetver Ia I ....... II 1111 ~1111111111 ,_, Nl •••dldlu
.......,...... 
under military rule since Feb­ruary 1972. 
The new president and 69 members of the national legis­lature elected Sunday are to be inaugurated along with a new constitution on Aug. 10. 
The election has more than local sigfnificance. Civilian democracy is rare in militarj­dominated South America, existing only in Venezuela and Colombia. Two of Ecuador's Andean neighbors, Peru and Bolivia, are ruled by military dictatorships which also have promised a return to constitu· tional government. 
The administration of Presi­dent Carter has voiced suppon for the transfer of power in all three countries. 
Bolivia tried last July 9 to elect a civilian president, but the results were ruled fraudu­lent. A general seized power, and in turn was overthrown by another general. New elections are scheduled for next July 1. 

In Peru, the 11-year-old mili­tary regime has given a consti­tuent assembly until] uly to write a new constitution. Elections have been promised to be followed by inauguration of a president and national legisla­ture by the end of the year or early in 1980. 
Only a month ago many Ecuadoreans doubted the regime seriously meant to hold the elections. But in recent weeks, the military rulers have repeatedly insisted nothing will change their. minds. 
"It's now up to the people to 


~bauflassts 

hrrtb Btart C!tlturrlt 
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffiii, C.S.C. 
9:15 a.m. Sunday Rev. Edward O'Connor, C.S.C. 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. James L. Shilts, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. James L. Shilts, C.S.C. 
n 
0 
<
m 
:;Ia 
choose their president,'' Adm. Alfredo Poveda, the junta chief, said on April 11. 
The short time until elections and some campai~n violence has dissipated pubhc apathy. 
Six persons were shot and wounded in Arenillas, a coastal city, during a rally in early April for Sixto Duran Ballen, one of the two presidential candidates. 
Duran Ballen's party denounced the shooting as an attempt on his life and made the same charge when two supporters were wounded by gunfire at a later rally in Atuntaqui, a town north of Quito. 
Campaigning was suspended at the end of March for several dars following the death of President Jose Maria Velasco Ibarra. 
B & B Storage 
Special Half Price group rate for Notre Dame/SMC Students 
US 31 North lowest rates in Michiana 


call·: 684-lllS 683-8833 

~---------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Observer Friday, April 27, 1979-page 3 
byJohn M. McGath Young men were last drafted "I expect at least a reestab­Opeonents also point out that 
Senior Staff Reporter into the armed forces in 1973. lishment of registration,'' Ker­the blils in Congress make no Since that time, the United by predicted, adding, "I know a mention of college deferments, States military has been com­lot of military men who are but do allow individuals to defer prised of an all volunteer force. nervous.'' service until age 2 3 . They also 
Editor's Note: This is the Until recently, most authorities Kerby, an air force veteran say that the bills would not
Observer second article in a two-part agreed that the volunteer army who served in permit conscientious objection. series dealing with the question was at least doing a respectible Vietnam, explained some of the Mike Burrell, a Notre Dame of a return to the military draft. job. But last month, Gen. problems that pla~ued the draft senior, was granted certified Today's story examines the Bernard W. Rodgers, Army while it was still in 'effect -conscientious objector status in 
problems and advantages of Chief of Staff, urged Congress during the Vietnam War. One 1972. "It was very hard for two of the propsals .. conscrip­to start a draft to fill the of the biggest criticisms of the me," Burrell recalls. "It took tion and compulsory national 500,000-troop shortage in the draft at that time was its me year and a half of apl?eals service. Individual Ready Reserve. inequity. He described the to be granted that starus. ' 
Will the Some Army officials, includ­lottery system as a J;~rocedure Following his approval, Bur­ing Lt. Gen Robert G. Yerks, a whereby draft offictals pick rell served his country by 
After a six-year absence, the top personnel officer, conclude dates of the year, and then working in a hospital for two !ssue of draftmg youn~ people that the draft is "inevitable." induct young people according years. mto government servtce has ''The only question is when,'' to the order of the dates of their ''That was a reallr worth­
Insight: 

military 
on(;e again become a major Y erks told a Senate panel birthdays as picked in the while thing in my life,' Burrell, topic of debate. There are recently. lottery. a pre-med srudent said. "By currently eight bills pending in Other authorities, including "Under the lottery system, working at tl}e hospital, I made Congress that would require Secretary of the Army Cliford there are fewer ways to ~et my mind up to be a doctor."
draft 
measures ranging from umver­Alexander, maintain that the out,'' Kerby explained. 'If BurreH favors a plan of sal registration of all 18 to 26 volunteer force is workeng well they pick your birthday, you get national compulsory service year-olds to a program of and remain "strongly oppos­drafted whether you are in similar to the outline of one of compulsory national service. ed" to it a resumption of the college Qr not.'' He explained the bills now on Capitol Hill,
return Both pro-draft and anti-draft draft. that under the old system, but admits that the prospects forces are lining up for a Robert Kerby, Notre Dame "numerous" exemptions for for such a program ''look pretty 
I. " 
showdown on the issue, but at associate professor of history, is college students were granted. sun. 
present, no one seems to be one of many people who are :fl.tis practice led to cried of "I think there are many 
sure what action, ifany, will be keeping an eye on the develop­mequtty. advantages to national compul­
taken on the proposals. ments. Some proponents of the draft sory service," observes Burell. 
point out that its re-instatement "At this point, it's sruck in would raise the quality of people's heads that serving recruits. Kerby agreed, at least your country means shoulder­in part, with the assumption. tog a rifle, but if we had 
'''I think that an equitable something like com:rulsory ser· conscription program would vice, I think it woul bring back have a long-term effect on the a certain amount of pnde in quality of the forces," Kerby serving your country." explained. But then again, He also pointed out that such you'd have more people there service, if extended to all young (in the armed forces) who don't people, would go a long way in want to be." helJ?ing them mature, as well as 
Some people oprose the draft mitigating some of the social because they fee that such a and racial barriers that other­program denies civil liberties, wise would remain in the gives the military unwarranted sheltered existence now led by mfluence over the youth of the mariy young people. nation, and conflicts with the Opponents of the plan point American tradition of volun­
[Continued on page 8]

teerism. 
Any jUNIOR on or off campus interested in being on 
Senior Advisory Council 
Call Nick 1691, Mary 8037 Tom 1768 or Bob 234-434 7 
WASHINGTON (AP) · The day, Jackson had said the floor. 

between Mon and Fri 
Senate Energy Committee president's proposal was cum­Under the revised Carter 
breathed new life into President bersome and unworkable. rationing plan · to be invoked 
Carter's standby gasoline plan Jackson said a second ele­only in the event of a national .-------------------------..
yesterday, but only after the ment of Carter's emergency energy emergency · · gasoline 
adminstration rromised to alle­proposals, authority for week­coupons would be disbused on 
CELEBRATION/SUNSHINE/RIVER CITY
viate potentia gasoline shot· end service station closing, the basis of how many cars each 
Proudly Presents

tages in states where people do would be voted on and probably person owns. 
the most driving. rejected on Monday. This means that a resident of The committee voted 9·8 to It is likely to be replaced by a New York state, who mightrecommend approval of the scheme under which governors drive 12 miles to work, would plan to the full Senate. of the states would have initial receive the same number of As late as Wednesday night, responsibility for devising their coupons as a person in Texas, key members of the panel had own conservation plans. who drove 40 miles to a job. · predicted the rationing scheme Although details are vague,would be rejected. the compromise, for instance, 
But late Wednesday night, would give the governor of White House aides agreed that Votinf{ 9 -8 Texas a certain number of extar 10 percent of the nation's coupons to offset the imbal­gasoline reserves would be ance.

to recommend
allocated to states where moto· Congressional sources said rists drive further to reach their the compromise was worked out jobs, mainly in the West. approval late Wednesday. 

w1th Special Guests 
"That tipped the balance,'' The House Commerce Com­said Sen. Bennett Johnston, mittee had voted 23·19 Wed­D-La., chairman of a Senate Only if a state tailed to meet nesday afternoon to tel·ect the 




AC/DC
energy conservation subcom-an assigned conservation goal president's rationing pan, but mittee. · would the federal Energy supf20rters attempted to revive 
Wednesday, May 16 
In additon, Johnston said, Department step in and impose it wtth another vote Thursday. 
8:00p.m.
members of the House and mandatory means other than But Republicans boycotted a 
Senate have be~un to realize weekend closings. committee meeting; not enough 


Morris Civic 
there will be senous shortages As late as yesterday morn­members were present, and no 

Auditorium
of gasoline this summer, and ing, the ratiomng plan seemed new vote was taken. 
potentiallY. serious shortages of dead in both the House and Carter's allies ori the House 
South Bend 
heating otl next fall and wtnter. Senate. committee predicted that as a "We need a standby ration­The House Commerce Com­result of the overnight negotiat­
Tickets: $8.00/7.00 reserved and are now on sale at
ing plan," said Sen. Henry mittee has voted to reject the ing, they would have reversed River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North (3 miles northJackson, D-Wash., chairman of rationing plan, but it will get Wednesday's outcome if a vote of campus). Call 277-4242 for further information.
the ener2v oancl. On W ednes-another chance on the House had been taken. 

Colleges 
MSU students add Magic to universit.Y council 
EAST LANSING, Mich. (CH) -How does a student get 
elected to the student council of a major university without 
being on the ballot, without campaigmng, and without even 
knowing about the election? 

It helps if the student is Earvin "Magic" Johnson. The 
star of the NCAA basketball champions, the Michigan State 
University Spartans, was elected by write-in votes to the 
MSU student council minority member-at-large position. 
. The surprised Johnson said, "I would like to stay on the 
council if I could be of use." He added that he might have 
difficulty finding thstime. . 
Johnson's teammates]ay Vincent and Gregory Keiser also 
received write-in votes, but not enough to wm a seat. 
Dorm inspections raise pr#vac..y issue at KU 
LAWRENCE, Kanas (CH) -University of Kansas 
residence halls officials didn't like what they found in the 
dormitory rooms, and students didn't like the way the 
officials found what they didn't like. 

During spring break residence hall personnel checked 
every room of one dorm, ostensibly for ftre hazards, and 
found numerous violations of dorm rules, such as the 
presence of alcohol and marijuana. 

The student rights committee of the student senate called 
the search an invasion of student's privacy. The KU Student 
Rights and Responsibilities Code gives authorities the right 
to enter rooms without permissiOn only in response to 
imminent danger to life or property, if 24-hour notice is 
given. 

'Spartan' sunbathers demand equal time 
EAST LANSING, MI--In an effort to regain some of their sin~le sex swimming time, women at Michigan State Umversity have been circulating petitions demanding their rights. According to the State News, .one of the complaints isn that with men always around, women are no longer allowed to sunbathe tofless. The outdoor pool was opened to help eliminate some o the crowding problems of the indoor pool. According the the director of intramurals, the pool belongs to no one group and should be open to anyone of any sex at any time. However, the women's athletic director said that the women's request was reasonable, and was not adverse to men's requesting equal time. 
Huntington breaks 
Guiness volle_yball mark 
HUNTINGTON, Ind (AP) -Huntington College has 
received certification from the editor of the Guiness Book of 
R~c:0rds that 12 of its students set a record of 60 hours, 8 
mmutes for a continuous volleyball game. 
"We accept this as a new record, and assuming that it is 
not overtaken in the meantime, it will appear in the next 
available edition of the Guinness Book of Records '' 
according to a letter from Guinness. ' 
The 60-hour, 8-minute game lastJanuary 21 was played by 
Gregory Auman, Michael Chafin, Scott Dentler, Clark 
Wallis, Jeffrey Bennett, Michale Brown, Gary Hoobler, 
Charles MartindaleJr., Martin McDonnell, Jeff Rostochack, 
Larry Jackson and Walter Starrick. 

Friday, April 27, 1979-page 4 
Parts of northern U.S. , Canada, evacute in anticipation of floods 
(AP) -The swollen Red River 
flooded parts of Minnesota, 
North Dakota and Canada yes­
terday prompting an order that 
thousands evacuate their 
homes in Manitoba as besieged 
people in and around Grand 
Forks, N.D., neared exhaustion 
behind sandbagged dikes. 
The dikes appeared to be holding but the peoJ>le main­taining them were ming, and officials urged 700 more people in East Grand Forks, Minn., to evacuate. 
In the South, meanwhile, 
clearing skies didn't ease con­
cern that flooding there would 
hurt fishing in the Gulf of 
Mexico when cresting rivers 
reach the sea in the next few 
days. 
In East Grand Forks, where the Red River has flooded for 10 days, Civil Defense director Orley Gunderson said he was scrounging for volunteers to send to an all-but-marooned area of about 1,000 homes called The Point, where the Red and Red Lake rivers join. 
Many university students were exhausted to the point of sickness, he said, and one small dike was weak and in need of shoring up. 
But bad as things were on The Point, there was more potential danger to life in other parts of Grand Forks and East Grand Forks. 
The Point sits higher than those low-lying .areas, some of which by yesterday were behind dikes holding back water as high as a home's second floor. And some of those dikes, though reinforced by sandbags and clay, were becoming waterlogged. 
As a result, 700 more resi­dents were ureged to leave Thursday in a 24-block area of East Grand Forks-even though officials said there ·was no imminent danger of a breach in a nearby dike. 
The Red was already at more than 49 feet, nearly 21 feet above flood stage, and was not expected to crest, at 49.). feet, until tomorrow. 
In all, 270 homes had been flooded and 1,400 people had been forced out of homes in the area by the time the new evacuation was urged yester­day. 
Meanwhile, floodwaters were spreading over the flat, fertile Red River Valley, engulfmg many farm homes. 
An after that, the north­flowing waters reached Canada, where Manitoba Pre­mier Sterling Lyon ordered people to leave towns, villages and farms in their path. . 
''The situation is serious and worsening," Lyon said in a broadcast announcement Wed­nesday. His evacuation order could affect as many as 10,000 residents from south of Winni­peg to the U.S. border. 
In the South, meanwhile, parts of Louisiana reported the first blue skies since late last week, and the National Weather Service said the Pearl River would crest at the Gulf of Mexico within 24 hours. 
''Once it gets past the town of Pearl River (La.) there's a lot of swamp for it to spread out in," said Larry Mayne of the National Weather Service. But new flooding of homes was not the only concern. 
Upriver, the Pearl was drop­ping, and some of th 3,500 people who had evacuated their homes in Marion County, Miss., were returning ­"straggling back to face the misery, " as Jim Thornhill, county civil defense director, put it. 
• • • Controls 
[Continued from page 1] 

McGovern maintained that ''flexible and selective controls can and should be concentrated on the largest and most influen­tial sectors of our economy." 
Unless the administration wants such authority, it is unlikely that the Congress will approve it. 
Kahn said authority for con­trols would be "counter-pro­ductive" now, reflecting con­cern in the administration that businesses will raise prices as hi~h s they possibly can if they thtnk controls are around the corner. 
The March rise in consumer prices means the nation's 3 5 million Social Security recipi­ents will receive a 9.9 percent increase in benefits to offset the impact of inflation officials said. 
The average benefit will be increased by $25, to $283 a month. Checks reflecting the increases will go out beginning in July. 
The Labor Department said the CPI in March stood at 209. 1 perce!lt of the 1967 average, meanmg goods priced that year at $100 had increased to $209.10 last month. 
The department gave this breakdown on price increases for various categories in March and for the 12-month period ending in March. 
Food and beverages, 1 per­cent for the moth and 12. 5 percent for the 12-month per­tod. 
Housing, 1 percent and 10.6 percent. 
Apparel and upkeep, 1. 5 percent and 5 percent. 
Transportation, 1.2 percent and 10.1 percent. 
Med.ical care, 0. 6 percent and 9 percent. . Entertainment, 0.9 percent 
and 6.1 percent. Other goods and services, 0.6 percent and 7. 5 percent. 
Ind..y man 
charged with shooting 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) •­Authorities charged an India­napolis man yesterday in con­nection with a bizarre shooting and fire that left one woman dead and severely dama~ed the state toxicology lab. Poltce said ] ames Ramsey, 50, faces charges of murder and arson in connection with W ednes­day's incident at the Indiana University Medical Center on the c!ty's near westside. 
LeMans Hall was the scene ofthe Dodge Ball game which was to break the world's record. Unfortunately the record remains unbroken. [Photo by Phil johnson] 
The Observer Friday, April 27, 1979-page 5 
Observer Insight
tJ an or;OsLal Court threatens press freedotn 
Treasure Hunt 
Treasure Hunt--Treasure these moments and hunt for that special prize. This is a case of refreshing reward! Be there at 12:30 on the South Quad today. 
Mattress Race 

Be at Dillon Hall Friday at 1 for the mattress race. Teams of 5 guys and one girl will race. The winning prize will be six • authentic An Tostal mugs. 
Trivia Battle 

Don't miss the Trivia battle between Zahm and Pangborn as they fight it out for the coveted title of Trivia Champs! Friday at 2 on the Main Quad. 
Egg Toss 

All right all you hard-bozled An Tostal fans, we've got an event that will scramble your brains! Come out to the, An Tostal Egg Toss, Friday at 1 on the South Quad. Bring a partner for a dozen laughs. The farthest unbroken toss whether it gets over easy or over hard wins a special prize guaranteed to cool you off after you've fried in the Friday afternoon sun! 
Chariot Races 

A Roman parade of chariots, trumpets and heralding young maidens will pass by the cheering crowds in the streets of Rome (North Quad) leading them to the circus maximus (mud pits). Drivers will circle the brutal course requiring the strength of Roman Legionaires and risking injury to the life of self, horse, crowds and young maidens. Come one, come all to the festivities. 
Obstacle Course 
So you think you're coordinated and another Six Million Dollar man? Come show us your fancy footwork at the first An Tostal Obstacle Course! Sign up at the starting line in front of Breen Phillips on North Quad. TIME CHANGED TO 9:30a.m.!!! 
Road Run 

The Second !tnnual A_n Tostal Road Run will take place Saturday ~orm~g, starung at Stepan Center. Participants should register 10 front of Stepan at 9:45 a.m. for either the 3-mile or the 6-mile race. Prizes will be awarded for the winners of the 6-mile race and ribbons will be awarded to the top 100 finishers in both races. 
Irish Wake 

Irish Wake! Want to raise the dead or maybe just a little hell. Come and be devilish at Irish Wake! For any information, call Tom 1827 or Tim 2937. 
Air Aces 

North Quad, the place to be Saturday. Come at 10:45 to see the Air Aces. Stay late to play picnic games and watch the procession. There are 1500 co-ex tickets for SMC ayai!able at your dining hall Friday. Come and enjoy the new p1cmc menu! 
Mud Wheelbarrows 
Mud Wheelbarrow race--Sunny Saturday 1:45 p.m. Here's another chance to frolic in the mud. Grab a partner and barrow your way across the _pit. Exchange positions and barrow back. No advance registration. Questions: John 1044, Chris 3181. 
Women's B-ball 
. ·Watch Women's Bookstore! Finals Friday at the 
bookstore. Championship Sunday behind the ACC. 
Women's Bookstore: good moves, good looks and good 
games. 
Mr. Goodbar 

"LOOKING FOR MR. GOODBAR" 
Clue #S: Place your wad of Wrigley's here. 
The past four clues are: · 
I) The ninth prime number. 
2) He's number one. 
3) Fr. John Zahm's middle initial. 

4) He never slept here. SUBMIT Ali ANSWERS TO THE ANSWER BOX IN THE OMBUDSMAN OFFICE BY SATURDAY AT NOON. THE WINNER Wlli BE ANNOUNCED AT THE IRISH WAKE. 
by Tom jackman Senior StaffReporter 

On February 4, 1973, CBS' renowned newsmagazine, 60 minutes, broadcast a segment entitled ''The Selling of Colonel Herbert." Narrated by Mike Wallace and produced by Barry Lando, it detailed the story of Lt. Col. Anthony Herbert, and his accusations that the U.S. Army was covering up atroc­ities in Vietnam. 60 Minutes charged that Herbert never even witnessed the atrocities. Herbert sued for libel. 
In a landmark decision last week, the U.S. Supreme Court dealt another blow to the media's freedom of the press p~otection rights under the F1rst Amendment, when it voted 6-3 that plaintiffs in a libel case may mquire into a journalist's "state of mind" and the editorial process behind the allegedly libelous state­ment. In other words, attorneys for the plaintiff may ask questions such as ''why this quote instead of this one," or why this film instead of this one," and also about discus­sions or conferences with edi­tors or producers. 
_The q~estion arose in pre­tnal heanngs when 60 minutes producer Lando refused to answer inquiries dealing with the editorial process prior to the completion of Wallace's seg­ment. Herbert's attorneys appealed to a Federal trial judge, who ruled that Lando had to answer these questions. CBS then appealed this de­cision to the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which re­versed the previous ruling. Last week, 10 Herbert's final appeal, to the Supreme Court, he emerged victorious. 
Although Herbert is not assured of winning his suit, waves of protest once again rumbled throughout the jour­nalism field, as the "Burger court,'' headed by Chief]usttce Warren E. Burger, handed down yet another verdict detri­mental to the media. In the past year, the Court has also 
Former N.D. profdies 
Bro. Columba Curran, a pro­fessor of chemistry at Notre Dame for 39 years, died yester­day at the age of 68 in St. Joseph's Hospital. He had been ill for five months. 
Born on April 9, 1911 in Cincinnati, Curran entered the priesthood in 1928 and made his final profession of vows in 1933. He graduated from Notre Dame that year, compiling the highest grade point average in th~ history of the college of sc1ence. 
Curran attended Notre Dame graduate school from 1934 to 1937, when he joined the facul­ty. He remained at Notre Dame until his retirement in 1976. At that time Curran went to teach in Brazil. 
He is survived by two sisters, MRS* Francis Feeney of In­dianapolis, and Mrs, Chester Rid~e of Chattanooga, TN, and a mece, Mrs. James Henry of Crystal Lake, IL. 
Services will be held tomor­row at 10:30 a.m. in the chapel of St Joseph, Holy Cross Broth­ers Center. Burial will be in St. Joeseph Cemetary at Holy Cross. · 
ruled on the Stanford Datly case, which stated that news­rooms may be searched with only a warrant, and the Farber case, which kerr a New York Ttmes reporter 111 jail with only two months for refusing to reveal a source. 
In his keynote speech two days ago to the American Newspaper Publishers Associa­tion's annual convention, Asso­ciation president Allen Neuharth, also chairman of Gannett Corp., expressed out­rage at the verdict. "The decision by the Supreme Court is one more step to weaken, erode and diminish freedom of the press, and by extension, all First Amendment freedoms. The American people, not just the press, are the real losers as a result of the Court's decision in the Herbert case," Neuharth said. He later added, "Last spring, the Court ruled that police can rummage through newsrooms; now it has ruled that lawyers can rummage through reporters' and editors' minds.'' 
However, according to others at the convention in New York, Neuharth's opinion is not nec­essarily the overriding view of the publishers in attendance. One of the most notable sup­porters of the decision has been Clayton Kirkpatrick, outspoken editor of the Chicago Tribune, who said in an editorial, "De­spite the strong words of pro­test from some journalists ... it does not represent a retreat from First Amendment protec­tions of the free press...The press does not deserve a license to lie--even about public offic­ials. Not only would such a license be unfair, it would in the end jeopardize the credibility of the press." 
Notre Dame Professor Charles Rice agrees with Kirkpatrick, saying, "It's the other shoe being dropped.'' ~ice was referring to the pre­VIOUS Supreme Court decisions, 
N.Y. Times v. Sullivan and Gertz v. Welch, which said that "voluntary rublic figures must show actua malice" in a libel suit. ''The problem is,'' Rice said, "that the press is given mo~e privilege than the ordiary plawuff. Where you're dealing with a public figure you have to show actual malice, and you have to e;ive the plaintiff the opportuntty to show why there was actual malice.'' Later, Rice added, ''I think it will make them (the press) more careful. .. the way they're dealing with reputations, they ought to be more careful." 
Members of the local press did not concur with Rice or Kirkpatrick. Phil Aulr, associ­ate editor of the South Bend Tribune, said, "if it's not a violation, it's a serious bending of the First Amendment. The trend of the Burger court has not been wholesome toward the press." He also added, "I can't find any justification in 
[Continued on page 13] 

S.U. seeks festival chairmen 
The Student Union Cultural Arts Commission is presently conducting interviews for the positons of chairman of the Senior Arts Festival and chair­man of the Midwest Blues Festival. All interested should sign the list located in the Student Union office by Wed­nesday. No great amount of previous experience is needed for either position. 

Come to Walsh Hall today at 4:30 pm and You'11 get the surprise of your life 

·--------------~-,
1· River City 1 ! Records I 
I I 
1 South Bend's largest record II and tape Selection! I 
I r--------------~ I
1 1 $Loo off! ! I ·~ l-----~~£?-?____J I 
S1.00 off any album or tape with this coupon. Limit 1 one per person. Now through May 7. Not good onI cut-ours, imports or sale items. Coupon must be I
I prese:t~:,e;:~::::hk:s:ci::::~ i~t:)~;s1:1 ~e2g~s~r 11
1 over purchase amounr 
• 18,000 albums and tapes in stock!!' 1I • Couldn't get what you wanted from the 
1

1.. s~~dken;!lunion? We'll cash your refund I 
Cnt;C S •. ,..

I River City RecordsI }0970 U.S. 31 North-·3 miles north ofcampus Open 10 to 10, 7 days a week--277-4242 · 

The Observer Friday, Aprll 27, 1979 -page 6 

I ' I 
I { 

i-•I I 
The Observer Friday, April 27, 1979-page 7 
Reaction of a Flanner frosh 
Tradition continues as tower war flares 
by Dave "Sport" Brosh 

A hail of bottle-rockets and obscenities broke out between Planner and Grace Wednesday night, marking the annual war between the two halls which falls on Wednesday n~ht of An Tostal week. The conflict which lasted three and a half hours, resulted in no damage to either hall and no one was injured. 
The war was initiated around midnight Monday when a group of freshmen in section 9B of Flanner began a shouting · match with Grace. As the match progressed, the resi­dents began firing bottle-rocket at each other. The hall staffs went door to door in both dorms and stopped the disturbance. 
On Tuesday evening, Flanner residents slipped into Grace and plastered posters announc­ing a "Gract·-Howard formal" on doors and walls of each floor. 
Planner and Grace Social Commissions scheduled a pic­nic, concert and football game on Wednesday nisht in an effort to reduce the tntensity of the war. The picnic and concert were both well attended and the Planner won the football game which followed. 
Despite these efforts, hostili­ties broke out around 9 p.m. when a small number of stu­dents began firing bottle­rockets at both dorms. The war escalated about 20 minutes later after Flanner residents began training a spotlight on Grace. 
The spotlight was used to pick out windows in Grace on whcih Planner concentrated its fire. Although at one point all the floors of both dorms were involved in the duel, most of the rockets were shot from the fifth, eighth and ninth floors of Flanner and the seventh and eighth floors in Grace. 
Some floors in Planner fired as many as 150 rockets, and Planner clearly had the advan­tage in the volume of firepower. Grace, however, was able to place its shots because of a strong tail wind. Grace also used "polish canons" to bom­bard Planner with tennis balls and oranges. ''Polish can­nons'' are a series of tennis ball cans taped together to form a tube. 
Grace concentrated their fire on the eighth and ninth floors of Planner where a P A system and the spotlight were located. They succeded in temporarily disabling the ninth floor "emplacement" with a rocket shot. • 
Grace permanently disabled a position on the eighth floor when a rocket exploded and ignited rockets lying in the bay 
Cancer Societ.Y to sponsor drive 
The American Cancer Society will sponsor a drive for both the collection of donations and the distribution of literature next Saturday, May 5 from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. Volunteers are asked to sign up in their dormitories on Wednesday, or just to come to Room 101 of the Galvin Life-Sciences building on Satur­day. The drive will take place in South Bend and Mishawaka. For more information call Chris Ranieri ·at 1548. 

window in Planner. The deto­nation of the arsenal of 65 rockets resulted in a ~reat amount of smoke, but no mju­ries or damage. 
Indiana State Troopers pre­sent during the conflict were not called by the University or in any way concerned with ~e war. They were escortmg cashiers from the An Tostal carnival at Stepan Center to Planner where the money was being counted. However, a ninth floor Planner resident shot a rocket which came within six feet of the troopers. 
Grace residents launched the 1 first raid of the evening, throw­ing firecrackers in the lobby area of Planner. Flanner residents responded by throw­ing firecrackers in Grace's lobby. After this, Planner held the ground between the towers using firecrackers, M-80's, and roman candles against Grace. 
Throughout the evening, both sides used combinations of mooning, hand gestures, tele­phone calls and uncomplimen­tary comments about the mothers of the other hall's residents to supplement the usual obscenities. 
In commenting on the war Bro. Pete Mahoney, rector of Planner, stated, "It was like being in a command post, or a bunker,'' and he described the area between the towers, "like a DMZ.'' 
During the war some fire­works were confiscated, but no one was sent to the] -Board. ln reterrmg to the use of fire­works, Mahoney stated, ''Obviously we can not approve the actions since they were breakin~ the regulations in Dulac.' He went on to say that the staff attempted to keep things under control. 
Both Mahoney and Bro. Charles Burke, the rector of Grace, are first-year rectors in their respective dorms. After his first war, Mahoney expressed relief that it was over. "We made it through the war, but I do not know if we will ever survive the pshychological battle scars," he said. 
Although damage was heavy two years ago, both rectors reported no damage to either hall. However, the area between the towers was littered with bottle-rockets, tennis balls, oranges, eggs and paper. 
The Ninth Floor Markman­ship Award, newly established by the freshmen of the ninth floor, goes to the eleventh floor of Grace. They received it for two consecutive hits made on the window of 911 Flanner with a "Polish cannon". 
Honorable mention goes to the seventh floor of Grace for ignitin~ the arsenal on Flan­ner' s etghth floor. 
Although Wednesday night's actions were not condoned, observers agreed that both sides avoided injuries and resulted in no damage to the halls. 
TV movie on seduction tells of a 'family affair' 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Career woman Maggie Kane is having an affair, and her best friend thinks it's wonderful -until she finds out it's with her 20-year­old son. 
Her red-faced former hus­band sputters, "It's unusual, it's unconventional, it's ... embarrassing.'' 
The CBS movie ''Anatomy of a Seduction," which airs Tues­day night, tells of the romance of the 38-year-old Maggie, played by Susan Flannery, and Ed, a college student played by ] ameson Parker. Rita Moreno stars as Ed's mother, and Ed Nelson as Maggie's ex­husband. 
The May-December romance is a common theme in the movies, but nearly always it's an older man and a younger woman. Recent films on the other side include "In Praise of Older Women" and "Moment by Moment.'' Earlier there was ''A Cold Wind in August.'' 
''Anatomy of a Seduction'' succeeds where others failed It is an intellisent and believable story, desptte a slightly lurid title. 
Maggie, a successful archi­tect, takes in Ed as a summer apprentice, and their work and mutual interests throw them together. It is Ed, not Maggie, who _Performs the seduction. 
Mtss Flannery, who most recently was i the "Women in White" miniseries, almostdidn't get the job. "The film was originally developed for Michael Learned, but for some reason she dropped out," said Miss Flannery, who lives in Montecito, near Santa Barbara. 
"My agent called me on a Monay and said he had to have 
an answer by six o'clock. They were going to start shooting on Wednesday.'' 
"I said, 'No.' Then he said Rita Moreno would be in it. So I drove into Los Angeles to read the scri(>t. I thought it would be interesting to work with Rita. It wold make a good contrast, both physically and in our personalities.'' 
Miss Flannery said she first asked that the script be rewrit· ten. "I wanted it to be a love story," she said. "It's two divorced women who are friends, and one falls in love with the other's son. I didn't think it should be just a story of a woman who runs around Beverly Hills and has an affair with a young man. 
"I wanted it to be a story about a woman who at 38 all of sudden realizes that her life has gone by and she's unfulfilled. She'll 'Dever be 38 again. It's like a midlife crisis, the kind that men fo through a few years later. hope that's what's accomplished.'' 
Stepan Center schedules Recess 101 
Recess 101 Friday evening at Stepan Center! The play­ground will be open for alf kids of any ages, and you can take lessons on childhood from !Midge May! There'll be trike races, jumprope, icecream eatinv contest and much more! 


INTERNSHIPS IN LONDON 
Summer 19·7~ (May 16th-July 27th) Fall Semester Jl'979 (Sept 5th-Dec 14th) Spring 1980 (Jan 16th-April 25th) 
Places in Research laboratories of london Teaching Hospitals. Also in Social Science, Town Planning, Museums, law Firms. (credit available for all internships) 
Full details end Application Forms: 
EPA, JYA Office, Marymount College, Tarrytown, N.Y. 10591. Tel: (914) 631-3200 
EPA 
·~ 

The Observer Friday, April 27, 1979 -page 8 
• • • Honesty 
[Continued from page 1] 
reminded their departments of the responsibility. 
The last notice re~arding A,cademic Honesty policy was circulated to academic depart­ments in 1975 when the guide­lies were first established. 
The old Honor Code and the Honor Council, which was com­posed entirely ofstudents, were abandoned in February of 1969 when the council members ''found it a moral quandi-y to sit 
in  judgement  on  fellow  stu­ 
dents.''  
Fr.  John  Walsh,  vice­ 

president for Academic Affairs at the time, advised all depart­ments to devise HonorCommit­tees to deliberate disputed cases. 
In 1971 a Faculty Senate committee which was estab­lished in May of 1969, pub­lished a repone advising that an Honor Code be re-estab­lished. · 
The Board of Trustees sub­sequently directed Fr. J ame" Burtchaell, then University provost, to assemble a "Com­mittee on Campus Honor.'' The committee published its report in 1973. 

The Academic Council dis­cussed and amended the docu­ment and gave it unanimous approval in early 1975. 
The Committee on Campus Honor determined that ''codes of conduct relating to students must consider students worthy of contributing to the code­making procedure.'' 
The result of this conclusion is the provision for student representation on Honesty Committees in the present aca­demic honesty policy. 
The Honesty Committee is the third link in an appeal process available to students who have been accused of violating the University's aca­demic honesty code. 
The first step in the appeal process is a conference between the student and instructor making the accusation, accord­ing to Robert Waddick, assis­tant dean of the College of Arts 
Breakdown of departmental compliance with du Lac 
ad Hoc committee  StandingCommittee  No Committee  
Student Representation  1  15  - 
No Student Representation  1  2  4  
Unsure about  
student  - 3  - 
Represen tatioo  
Information on two departments  unavailable  

There is some question as to the interpretation of du Lac with regard to the appointmeilt of members to the committee. Du Lac states that the commit­tee "should be" a standing committee. 
Sullivan believe that the phrase is only a recommenda­tion, not a requirement. This interpretation suggests that either the committee could be appointed for a set term, or that the department convene as a committee as necessary. · 
Jim O'Hare, Judicial Coordi­nator concurred with Sullivan's interpretation, but added that he believes that "to have a standin~ committee would stream-line and speed up due process" so that if a student requested a committee hearin~ it would be available immedi­ately. 
"IF it is an ad hoc comittee, the student and instructor may have to wait an unfair amount of time for the appeal process to begin because of the need to make appointmi:nts," O'Hare commented. 
According to Sullivan's inter­pretation, the two departments which provide for ad hoc com­mittees are within the guide­lines written in du Lac. O'Hare's view of that interpre­tation is that it slows down the appeal procedure. 
and Letters. Next, the student may seek the opinion of the chairman of the department
Applications now 
being accepted fot 

under which the course is listed. If the student is not satisfied 
..._....-ALSAC__,.. with the decision of the chair­man, he may make an appeal to the departmental honesty com­
Atts &Lettets 

mittee. 
According to du Lac, the instructor mp.king the accusa­
Student Advisoty 
Council 

tion is required to submit a 
writtetn report to the depart­
mental honesty committee. 
The report is to include evi­
call: 

dence that the student has violated the academic code. 
Paul Lewis 8505 

The last step in the appeal process is a hearing before the
Diane Rice 7938 

dean of the college m which the department is located. 
BUllaSh€0 
5:15 mass anb supp€R 
a
thiS ~Ribay 
campus


miniStry 
: PUBliC netiC€ : 
: BaCkOR0€RS anO : 
: Oe~ecttve atsums: 
• must B€ p1ck€b up BY mon. • 
0 • 
• apRil 30 at 4:00 pm. c\l=t€R that • : bat€ they B€COffi€ PROP€Rty 0~ : : th€ Stub€nt Un1on. R€~Unbs : : must B€ cta1m€b BY sam€ bat€. :
. .......... .
~~

•• ,.,.~:..,~·· ••
0€~€Ct1V€S may B€ ..,..,.., 
• : e  11€tUI10€b ~011 11€plac€m€nt monbay apRtl 30 anb tu€sbay  Vf.l • :.0  • : e  
:  may 5.  :  

The second annual Kountry Kanter, a ten-mile footrace beginning and ending at An­drews University, is scheduled to begin at 2 p.m. Sunday. 
Featured this.· year will be runners Randy Thomas and Mavis Lindgren. Thomas is known for his road racing performances and for finishing second topBill Rodgers in many races. Rodsers set a new record in this year's Boston Marathon and won last year's Kountry Kanter. 
Mavis Lindgren, who re­
... Dr~ft 
[Continued from page 3] 

ouut that the annual costs of a one-year service program would be approximately $23 billion. They also question the constitutional authority of the government to draft young people for "non-military" ser­vice, and point out that draftees would only be paid minimum wage. 
If the draft is re-instated, results are expected to be seen even at Notre Dame. Lt. Col. 
Henry  Gordon,  commanding  
officer  of Notre  Dame  Army  
ROTC,  recalled,  "When  the  

draft was in effect, we had a much larger number of people, but you have to take college deferments into consideration -­at the end of the Korean War when college deferments were dropped, there was a noticeable increase in the number of ROTC candidates on campus." 
Gordon admits, ''Nobody knows what form they (the draft proposals) will take. As far as I know, they're just proposals and that's it right now." 
There are many who feel that a re-instatement of the draft would cause campus unrest similar ·to that experienced during the sixties. 
In any event, chances seem slim that any action will be taken until after the 1980 Presidential election, because it is unlikely that any candidate would knowingly alienate young voters by moving to re-instate a proven unpopular program . 
Second 'Kanter' features top runners 

cently celebrated her 72nd birthday, is well known on the West Coast for holding mara­thon records in her age group. 

This year's race follows a course from the Andrews cam­pus through the village of Berrien Springs and the sur­rounding countryside. In addi­tion to the ten-mile course, this year a four-mile course is offered to those who wish to run a shorter race. The four-mile course follows the first part of the ten-mile course, turning back toward campus at the corner of Kephart Road and Main Street in Berrien Springs. 
The registration fee for both races is $5.00. Registration ends at 1:30 p.m. the day of the race. Aid stations will be set up at appropriate intervals along the course and police protection and stand-by medical service will be provided. 
Information and a registra­tion form may be obtained at the physical education depar­
ment or by calling 471-3253. 
Friday, April 27, 1979 -page 9
Editorials 

Women and Minorit.Y Facult.Y at Notre Dame 
Editor's Note: This week's ] ustice Notes are a preview of the talk ''Affirmative Action at ND ' ' to be ?.iven by Sr. John Min'am jones, S.C., Assistant Provost, on Wednesday, May 2, at 7:30p.m. in Howard Hall. 
What is the basis for "affirmative action?" There are primarily two legal grounds. The first is Title VII (Equal Employment Opportun­ity) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which apJ?Iies to employ­ers engaged 1n an industry affecting commerce who have 15 or more employees. 
The Title makes it, in gen­eral, unlawful employment practice for a labor organiza­tion ro "exclude "r to expel from its mt>mber"hip or appli­cams for membership. or other­wise to distrimin:He against, anv individual because of his race. color' religion. sex, or national origin.'' Coverage was extended to educational institu­tions by the Equal Employment Opponuniry Act of 1972. 
The second legal ground is Executive Order 11246, amended by Executive Order 11375, which prohibits discrim­ination by employers who have contracts with rhe federal gov­ernment amounting to $10,000 or more. The Equal Employ­ment Opportunity clause reads in part: "The contractor will take affirmative action to insure that applicants are employed and that employees are treated1 during employment without re­~ard to their race, color, relig­Ion, sex, or national origin." 
Each employer must draw up affirmative action plans that include specific goals ·and rime­tables. It should be empha­sized that these regulations do not require an emrloyer to engage m preferemia hiring or to practice what has come to be known as ''reverse discrimina­tion." 
How does Notre Dame fit inro all this? The formal affirmative action efforts of the University began inJanuary, 1970, with its first published Equal Employ­ment Opportunity Policy, fol­lowed by submission of its first Affirmative Action Plan to the Department of Health, Educa­tion and Welfare in July, 1971. 
The present academic year was the last for which goals and timetables had been estab­lished. A new Affirmative Action Plan was developed in January, 1979 largely through the efforts of Sister John. One of the major forces behind this development was pressure from the Department of Labor. 
What are the results of the first years of affirmative action here at Notre Dame? The figures for 1977-1978 show 85 women and 4 7 minority mem­bers on the faculty while the unofficial figures for the pres· ent academic year reveal a decrease in the number of women to 81 and a dramatic increase in the number of 
Romeo 
vs. 
Juliet 

WASHINGTON--Romeo Montague and Juliet Capulet came to see me the other day. "We want to live together," Romeo said, "butsince the Lee Marvin decision Juliet wants something in writing." 
''I'm not a lawyer,'' I warned the lovers. 
"It doesn't matter," said Juliet. ''Anyone can draw up a contract as long as it's witness­ed. I just want some protection if I'm going to give up the bes't years of my life for this loser." 
. ''Are you certain you want to live together?" I asked. "Sure," said Romeo. "We love each other. Besides, I'm 
tired of socks. ·•  washing my  own  
"And,"  said  Juliet,  ''I'm  

tired of working in summer stock. It will be a relief to sit at home and watch the soap operas on television.'' 
You both sound like you're in love. Why do you need a contract?'' 
Romeo said, ''All that female love talk can fool you. One day it's 'I can't live witho11t you' and the next day it's 'I'm going to take him for everything he's got." 
Juliet said, "Men are all alike. They'll tell you anything to get their shirts ironed, but then they'II find somebody else and tell you to move out because you put too much starch in thetr collars. When that moment comes, I want some money to rehabilitate myself so I have the economic means to learn new employable skills.'' 
Romeo said, "I don't mind giving her a few bucks when I get tired of her as long as she gets our of my hair." 
I told them, ''It sounds like you are truly crazy about each other.'' 
Romeo said, "We are in love, but I'm not going to break my neck as an actor and give it all away just because I went nuts over some chick who looked good in the moonlight while standing on a balcony.'' 
Juliet sa1d, "Daddy is so mad at me for moving in with Romeo that he's cut me off without a dime. If I'm going to play house mate I want some insurance so that I won't wind up working as a salesgirl in Bloomingdale's." 
"Are you sure you want a contract?" I asked. "Why do you ask the question?" Romeo demanded. 
"Well, let us suppose that at some stage Romeo says, 'I can't take this woman any more. She nags worse than a fishwife.' And Juliet says, 'I'm tired of being a surrogate wife when I could be the star of the Stratford-Upon-Avon 

minorities to 71, or 9.7 percent 
of the total faculty. 
In connection with the new 
affirmative action plan this 
year, the largely tneffective 
Affirmative Action Committee , 
which had been charged with 
monitoring the University's 
affirmative action efforts, was 
disbanded; two separate 
committees were appointed in 
its stead. It remains to be seen 
whether this new structure will 
be any more successful than its 
predecessor. 
There is more involved in 
affirmative action than goals, 
timetables and legal obliga­
tions. Father Hesburgh stated 
in a letter accompanying the 
October 31. 1978, statement on 
the Affirmative Action 'Program, "Irs publication af­fords a timely opportunity to reiterate my own strong belief in the need ·for affirmative action and in the desirability of a university diversified as a result of that action.'' 
The statement itself con­cluded that ''our dedication goes beyond the law. At an educational institution, affirma­tive acton is essential for its own sake so as to enrich and diversify its members and its students. The totality of truth is best taught and learned at a University genuinely represent­ing the majority of truth's facets.'' 
So where does that leave all of us? Officially, it means we have a commitment on paper to dedicate ourselves to making Notre Dame a place where the faculty includes women and minorities--as "qualified as the majority males--who are wel­comed, integrated, and encour­aged to make their contribu­tions to the continuing tradition of this university, and where students expect to find a divers­ified student body as well as a diversified faculty to enrich and enlarge their own educational pursuits. 
In practice, there appears to be some discrepancy between rhetoric and action. Come listen to Sister John to learn more about affirmative action at Notre Dame and more about what we all can do to achieve it. 
james Stewart Kathleen Maas Weigert 
YB5, OF CIJI/IlSE. UHY 

ecr M~WJW !MieN 
A RECENT POl./... SHews THAT ~ OF C4L/FOR­NIAN ~ctXJUJ CARe 1..£55 IF L./Na4 ANIJI 607MA/lRIW
.1' CRNOTr 

Shakespeare Festival.' Ifyou have a contract you 
can't sue each other." 
"That's the idea," Romeo said. 
."!fl don't trust him now, you can imagine my 
feelmgs about him later," Juliet said. 
"I understand that," I tofd the lovers "but do 
you realize what a lawsuit would me~n? You 
would have worldwide notoriety. Can't you see 
the headlines? 'Juliet Capulet Sues Romeo 
Montague for $1 Million. Romeo Tells Her to 
Take Poison."' 

"So?" Romeo said. "Who wants the 
publicity?'' 

"Don't you see the commercial value ofsuch a 
suit?" I told them. "The William Morris 
Agency will get a book contract for Juliet. As an 
actor, Romeo will be hot again and could 
renegotiate his contract with the Globe Theater. Juliet could go on the lecture circuit and give speeches to Women's Lib groups. Romeo could get on 60 Minutes. Your lawyer would make a mint with all thejublicity he got from the case. Everybody woul win on this one. A contract between the two of you would destroy any literary value your tragic romance has.'' 
"H~'s ri.ght," Juliet sa~d to Romeo. "I'll just move m With you and we II play it by ear." 
"Okay. You can hang _your clothes in my closet until the bloom is off the rose '' Romeo said. Then he turn~d to me, ''If we su~, what do you want out of thts?" 
"Nothing," I said. "When rwo people are in love a much as you are, it just makes me tingle all over.'' 
Art Buchwald [GJ 1979, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 

admimstration of either institution. 
Editorial Board 

The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Features Editor .......Chris Stewart represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ...... K. Connelly 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewis Busin~ss Manager .....Steve Odland newspaper published by students of able to all members of the community, News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan the Umversity of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News Editor .......... .Mike Shields Saint Mary's College. It does not 9pinions on campus, through letters, is Saint Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ..... .Bob Rudy n«essarily reflect the policic:"S of the encouraged. Spons Eduor ...........Mark Perry Controller ........... John Tucker 
_The Observer_ 
Features 
Friday, April 27, 1979 .. page 10 
April's Killing Me 

Rev. Robert Griffin 
I'm down to my last cigarette. There's nothing in my pockets but a rosary and a starlite mint, left over from the hour when I gave up smoking. I feel lonesome enough to write suicide notes, but I don't own a stamp and I've got no reason to die. April's killing me, that's all. April's making me feel like the only prune Danish in a room full of bagels. 
Yesterday, I had an argument with a woman who is mad with the Pope. "The Pope should let l'riests marry," she said. "He's ruimng the Church with his celibacy rule." 
"He's got his reasons," I said. wondered what his reasons were. 
"It's just dumb," she said, "like a bad Pohsh joke, not to let a priest get married." 
"He doesn't let me get married," I said. "I think he's got somei:hing in mind." 
"You probably don't want to. get married,'' she satd, ''but many pnests do." If April weren't killing me, I would have argued with her. Why argue in a month that makes you feel like ·joining the Book-of-the-Month Club when everyone else is buying 
CINEMA--OFF CAMPUS 

"TheDeerHunter" at 1:30,4:15,8:00 
University Part I. Romantic story of 
the comradeship between men in the 
Vietnam War. An intense film with 
some of the best acting in cinema 
today. Stars Robert DeNiro, Christo­
pher Walken and John Sava~e. 
Directed by Michale Cimino. Wmner 
of) Academy Awards inCluding "Best 
Actor'' and ''Director''. 

"Norma Rae" at 2:15, 4:40, 7:05, 
9:30 University Park II. Sally Field plays a strong-willed factory worker in a small Southern town in 'the 1930's who tries to better her life and the lives of her children with the help of a New York union organizer, played by Ron Leibman (TV's "Kaz"). Also stars Beau Bridges. Directed by Martin Ritt. "The China Syndrome at I, 3:10, 5:20, 7:30, 9:50 University Pari< III. What-if story about the covt:r-up of an indus­trial accident that (old lt>ad to nuclear disaster. Jane For.cia and Michael Douglas are two TV reporters who happen upon this power plant crisis and Jack Lemmon plays the plant manager. The co-incidence with the reality of Three-Mile Island is fright­ening. Directed by James Bridges who also did "The Paper Chase". "The Champ" at 7, 9:30 Forum I. 
Jon Voight stars as an ex-boxer who struggles against his problems with gambling and drinking to manage a race-horse and to be with his little son. 
Faye Dunaway is his ex-wife. A real sappy weeper, although Voight turns in a fine performance. It's a remake of the 1931 film and I understand that the remake can't touch the original which won two Academy Awards for acting. Directed by Franco Zeffirelli. 
"Buck Rogers in the 25th Century" at 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 Town and Country I. Stars Gil Gerard, Pamela Hensley and Erin Gray. NASA astronaut falls into suspended anima­tion during a meteor shower and awakes 500 years later in time to save the Earth from invaders. Although its special effects aren't all that special, this "Star Wars'-esque film is fun. Directed by Daniel Haller. "Hurricane" at 2:30, 4:45,. 7, 9:15 Town and Country II. Remake of the 1937 film. Stars Jason Robards, Mia Farrow and Timothy Bottoms. Dir­ected by Jan Troelli. 
fruit? In Provence, I thought, the 
grape vines are green with leaves. 
"The pity is," she said, "that they 
had to elect him young. " 
April's killing me, I thought, and so 
are my feet. I wondered if I had my 
arch supports in backwards. 
"It would be different," she said, "if celibacy had value, but it doesn't. . It's just ade~!al and frustration of human nature. 
''If it were only that,'' I said, "celibacy would be dumb." "Then you agree," she said, "that it is dumb?" 
I thought of the men and women I have loved in the service of the Church. The cloister may not have conferred innocence on them, but it certainly took nothing away. 
"Not. dumb," I said. "You just don't understand." 
"l understand." she said, "that the Church can't go on this way, losing priests; because if it does, pretty soon there'll be no Church." 
Why, I asked myself, does she keep 
beating on a celibate old lifer like me? 
"Listen to something," I said. "A man was travelling from Jerusalem to Jericho. While on -his way, he gets set upon by brigands, robbed, beaten, and left in a ditch to die. Eventually, he drags himself out of his ditch, limps off to the hospital, and applies for treatment at the Emergency Room, where the doctor tells him: "You damn fool, you should never have tried walking from Jerusalem to Jericho. You should always travel the Jericho 
road by bus." 

"Maybe he should have,' she said, 
"if he got beaten and robbed." 
"You're saying of priests en route as back-packers to the Inn of the Good Samaritan, 'The Church should have let them make the journey by bus'; as though there were no advantages to foot travel; no children to be greeted on the road, no trees to be looked at, no landscapes to be studied.'' I glanced at her with the hope that my words would mean something. "Don't you think their experience has brought a grace and beauty to the Church that makes it uniquely blessed?" 
"April's killing you, isn't it?" she 
What's All This, Then? 
"Hair" at 7:10, 9:30 Forum II. Based on the 60's Broadway musical by Gerome Ragni and James Rado. Stars John Savage, Treat Williams and Bevery D'Angelo. Directed by Milos Forman who also did "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest". 

"Hardcore at 7, 9:20 Forum Ill. 
George C. Scott is the Calvinist father from Grand Rapids who searches for 
his runaway teen-a~e daughter in the porno world of California. Also stars Peter Boyle and Season Hubley. Directed by Paul Schrader. 
"Love at First Bite" at 2, 3:45, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 Scottsdale. A Dracula film in a more jocular vein. Much of the humor comes from obvious puns and lurid double entendres. George Hamilton is the Count. Also stars Susan Saint James. Directed by Stan 
Drag~ti. 


"Bedknobs and Broomsticks" at 7, 9 Boiler House Flix. A terrible Disney film. "Saturday Night Fever" at 7, 9:30 Boiler House Flix. Everybody knows who the main dancers are aohn Travolta and Karen Lynn Gorney) and what the story-line is (young New York loser becomes god on disco floor) and what the soundtrack did to popular music (it destroyed it), but did you know that the script is based on Nik Cohn's June 7, 1979 NEW YORK cover story, "Tribal. Rites of the New Saturday Night"? Directed by John Badham. Thts is the PG version, so all the redeeming things of the film are slashed. "Coming Home" at 6:30, 9 pm River Park Theatre. Jane Fonda won an Oscar for her portrayal of a wife of a Marine captain who in 1968 volunteers for work in a veteran's hospital after her husband goes to Vietnam. There she meets a paraplegic, played by Academy Award winner Jon Voight who is enraged by his hefplessness. Directed by Hal Ashby. 
CINEMA--ON CAMPUS 

"Young Frankenstein" at Midnight tonight. Stepan Center. Part of the An Tostal festivities. The hysterical Mel Brooks' spoof on the old Frankenstein flicks. Stars Gene Wilder as clean-cut American Doctor Frankenstein (that's pronouced FRON-ken-shteen!) who returns to the old family castle with his fiancee, J?layed by Madelein Kahn. There wtth the help of his. loyal hunchback servant Isor (crazy Marty Feldman) the Doctor creates the monster with the "A.B. Normal" brain (Peter Boyle). Gene Hackman plays the part of a blind hermit in one said. 
"It's a hard month to take," I said. "I find it hard to make the chan~e, moving from death to resurrection. ' 
"Bus travel is not such a bad way to go," she said. "Bus travellers have nice experiences, too. It may be what they need, if they're younger, on that Jerusalem to Jericho road.'' 
"Or even if they're older," I said, "if that's what they want. Only I've made my journey, until now, by the lonelier way, and it's where my friends belong." 
''A bus ride can be as lonely as hell." she said. "Yes," I said, "all my married friends tell me that." "April," she said, "is really killing you." 
"Not so much any more," I said. "In Provence, the grape vines are green with leaves." 
"What does that mean?" she said, "Something Eucharistic?" "I only said it," I replied, "because it sounds like Hemingway." 
One uses Hemingway as a catechism of grace under pressure in a spring­time when the month is killing him. 
Mark Ferron 

of the film's better scenes. Although this movie lacks some of the outra­~eous laughs of "Blazing Saddles", it ts more consistently funny. The film reproduces many scenes and situa­tions from the original 1931 horror classic and from the later "Bride" and "Son of Frankenstein" beautifully (if was filmed in black and white and much of the props in the lab are from the original movie) but Brooks turns these dead-pan scenes into great comedy with awful puns and double entendres. "Let Joy Reign Supreme" at 7:30 on April 30 Washington Hall. 
PERFORMANCES--ON CAMPUS 
Festival of New 'Music in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall, SMC. On April 27 at 8 pm: 
Concert featuring violinist Barry Ross with the Western Michigan University wind ensemble. On April 28 at 8 pm:$ 
Composer Samuel Adler will direct a open rehearsal of the Saint Mary's Chamber Singers. A music depart­ment faculty concert will feature ''Makrokosmos'' by George Crumb and "From the Diary of Virginia Woolf' by Domenich Argento. On April 29 at 8 pm: 
All Adler concert featuring the St. Mary's Chamber Singers and the St. Mary's Children's Choir, a student ensemble and solo performances by vocalists Nancy Wandland and Nancy Kennedy and by pianists Roger Briggs, Jeffrey Jacob and Ruth Fischer. "Amphytrion '79" on April 27 and 28 and on May 3, 4, 5 at 8 pm in O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC. Recital by the voice students of Becky Stauffer on April 27 at 7:30 pm. Crowley Hall. International Festival on April 28 at 
7: 30 Washington flall. Admission is free. An evening of culture with various dances and son~s from several different countries is htghlighted. Fifty Percent Trade Show on April 28 ACC. Sponsored by WRBR radto. Concert by the Notre Dame University Chorus on April 30 at 8:15 pm Sacred Heart Church. Recital: Dennis Bamber on the saxophone on May 2 at 8:15 Library Audttorium. 
Sexism in the South 
Notre Dame's Name Game 

Dining Hall Bill McGurn 
About the bt:st, and certainly the 
cheapest, form of entertainment on 
campus can be found each day in the 
South Dining Hall, that last bastion of 
the pseudo-Intelligensia. MayJ>e it's 
the food, maybe it's the coffee, or 
maybe it's just the Domer's them­
selves, but whatever the cause, the 
lunchroom is definitely the_place to go 
to hear some really off the wall 
propositions. There must be some­
thing about a Saga meal that inspires 
these orators. 
The real trick is to sit around one of 
the great opinion givers and listen 
closely. Most of these people, given 
the bare minimum of facts and only a 
slight understanding of the situation, 
can come up with an infallible conclu­
sion for any conceivable issue. The 
most remarkable thing is that as each 
day and each lunch exists only for its 
owr;t s~ke, there i_s no obligation to 
mamtam any consistency. One need 
only be expressive and overbearing to 
be a lunchroom success. 
One such character, a personal favorite, is Bob, a regular with the South Dining Hall crowd, and an admitted expert in any field whatso­ever. Now, the other day at lunch Bob. was ~peakii?g definitiv~ly about a subject With wh1ch he considers him­self a practical as well as theoretical expert: women. 
Bob likes, or at least desires, women. And thus Bob not only tells all, Bob wants to hear all. Such questions as "What didja get?", followed up with other less refined inq_uiries are made by Bob to all the different guys at his given table, and these are usually greeted with a certain amoun.t of general. laughter. The accused tndiVIoual either fabri­cates some lively tale to amuse his friends or he sits in embarrassed silence. 
<~H
Bob enjoys either reaction, but in the event of the latter he is always ick to provide some fable of his own. 
is stories have the samecredibility

and truth content of a National 
Enquirer headline. A die hard chauvinist, Bob glories in what he sees as his role as spokesman for the Keep 'em-Barefoot-in-the-Winter­and-Pregnant-in-the-Summer Club. His opinions would embarrass Bobby Riggs. 
But the other day, during one of his 
cruder inquisitions, Bob met his 
proverbial match. One tiny freshman, 
caught up with the spirit of the 
moment, asked Bob not so innocently, 
the following question. 

"What's your sister like Bob?" 
. There was the sound of deafening 
silence. Bob stared at our young naive 
freshman with the glint of murder in 
his eye. The poor fellow had no idea of 
Bob's capacity for holding two contra­
dictory opinions (known m the verna­
cular as the "Double Standard"). The 
table smiled knowingly; this would be 
fun. 

Now for those of you who do not know Bob, you would of course be unaware that Bob is very attached to ~is sister, a!Jd indeed has pushed her mto pursumg a very progressive career pattern. It is highly likely -in fact almost certain -that Bob's sister will in three years be one of the roughly 33 percent of those women who attend med school. Bob is very protective about his sister, and, if the truth be known, would not let anyone at all like himself near her. Thus we at the table knew that the poor freshman was in for it; the question was whether Bob would take the direct and violent or the calculated and subtle ap.J?roach. 
The first hint was Bob pounng his soup on the freshman's lap. Direct and violent, evidently. Bob first criticized the freshman's total lack of class, then touched upon his extreme ignorance of the situation, and ~reached with a homily on women's nghts that would have made Billie ] ean King proud. He left · the lunchroom after concluding with a thinly veiled threat against this fresh­man s continued existence should he ever be found talking to Bob's sister. The less~n was well received, and the freshman made no more comments. 
But, strangely enough, neither does Bob. True, on occasion he rises to his old rare form, solving the crisis in Iran, telling the pope what's wrong with the· 
Catholic Church, and even determin­
ing the market value of Pete Rose. But, if the South Dining Hall is a bit more quiet on Monday mornings, it's 
all because of an embarrassing ques­tion asked by an unassuming fresh­man. 
?orne day, mark my words, Bob's gomg to make some woman an excellent husbanCl. 
+-~------------------------------~the University does not have to buy a~ Album Reviews much food, therefore, room and board
• X N h
'
Generatton 

Valley of the Dolls Generation X (Chrysalis) 
There are indeed good by-products of the punk rock movement and one of these IS Generation X. This London 
band  has  abandoned  safety  pms,  
nihilism, and pretentiou sness.  They  
have,  however,  kept  the  most  

important part of the punk creed: a return to basic rock and roll. As a result, Valley of the Dolls is a 
rough-edged, explosive album without the offensiveness of the Sex Pistols. Another factor that set Generation X above other English punks is that they are serious musicians. Sid Vicious was hardly a bass player and ] ohnny Rotten has yet to actually sing a note in his life. Generation X, however, are a relatively talented group and their musical style is strikingly similar to that of the early, guitar-smashing Who. Billy Idol's fierce vocals are clear and very strong. Drummer Mark Laff lays down an adequate beat while often exploding into machine-gun soloettes a Ia Keith Moon. This similarity to the Who is hardly a coincidence. "Friday's Angels" has the same basic guuar nif as the old ·classic, ''Substitute'' and Generation X's first big hit in the U.K. was a thundering rocker entitled "Your Generation.'' Valley of the Dolls is a rough album crammed with exploding energy. Ian Hunter, of Mott the Hoople fame, has produced this LP and should be commended for not trying to make Generation X sound smoother of slicker than they are or want .to be. Generation X has 
azaret Steve Navarre 
delivered a solid English rock & roll album. Iris a must for those persons who find themselves remmiscing about the Who concerts when Keith Moon was still alive and Pete Town­shend could still hear. Or when the Rolling Stones played legitimate con­certs (with Hells Angles security guards). This album may be classified as "neo-punk" but "good-old British rock" is a far more apt 1itle. 
N0 Mean City 
Nazareth
(A & M) 

With No Mean City, their latest 
release, Nazareth is being heralded by 
A & M Records as "the new 
Nazareth." The addition of a second 
~uitarist is the only change in the 
'new" band. Yes, Virginia, this is the 
same old Nazareth who has pierced 
our eardrums for the last ten years. 
These boys from Scotland nave never really achieved-super-stardom although they have remained on a relatively stable plateau of popularity since their ince~tion back in the days of the Yardbirds et. al. The tune "Telegram/So You Want To Be A Rock n Roll Star'' is their most ambitious effort to date while unfortunately, the rest of their work does not come close to matching this self-set standard. 
No Mean City, unsurprisingly, is a collection of droning7 mega-decibal bores which also just don't make it. No cut on the LP is distinctive and the entire album just blends into a clumsy, repetitive "tour de force." 
The name Notre Dame makes many people think of goodlooking, husky, smart football players who are dedi­cated to serving their school, their country, and anyone alse who needs help. What most people do not know however, is that their Notre Dame boys have become a rebellious breed. The Notre Dame administration has become very concerned that the image of the school may become blemished by the actions of their students both male and female. Therefore, i offer the_followi~g suggestion to Dean Roemer 10 an effort to help him keep the students under control and the rep_utation of the school high. I believe that the University should censor its student-run newspaper and radi? . station for . the purpose of 
retammg Notre Dame's all-American image. 
Notre Dame presently has an inde­p~~dent newspaper delivered to its dmmg h:llls called The Observer. This newspaper is too independent. Stu­dents are no more capable of running s newspaper than they are of running a record store. The administration should step in and supply the news­
pap~r . workers with adult editors to msnll m the students the idea of what is and what is not fit to beJrinted. An article was recently printe concerning sex at Notre Dame. Don't the students know that sex is not a topic to be d~scussed in public? Sex should be discussed only behind closed doors. An adult editor is needed to teach the stu~ents about the place of sex in 
SOCiety.. The newspaper may discuss the events of the outside world but the internal events of the U nive;sity such as bugs in the dining hall food should no. b_e allowed t<? be printed. By pru?-tlng such articles, the paper is ~elhng the students that the University IS not as good as the world thinks it is. Th~ o~ly way the University can keep up Its Image among the students is to 
make  sure  the  students  read  only  
about  the  good  the  University  has  
done.  

A student-run paper might complain about the bugs in the dimng hall food because it does not know as does the University, that bugs a~e very nu­tritious. By adding bugs to the food 
rates can be kept relatively low. A student-run newspaper raises an up-
Who says all the students at Notre Dame and Saint ~ary's don't pick up ~he saf!le expressiOns, and put them to mcred1bly huge use? If you're one who does, read this conversation I have with a casual acquaintance on the q~ad today, and see if it changes your 
mmd.  
Me:  "How'd you do on that Calc  
test?"  
Him:  "Aw, man, I got pimped to  

the max! I'm gonna be bummed out f'?r days!!!" 
"Rc;:ally? I thought you said you'd studied a!Ot. You .were really confi­dent yesterday." 
"I know! I was so confident, I almost decided to blow it off, but I said 'later on that'. IfI'm gonna be a throat and pull all-nighrers, I might as well take the test, nght?" 
''Really. I know what you mean: later, as m much, on that course." "Oh, yeah, I get your drift. We're talking blow it off to the max. ] ohn 
Richard Dubois 
roar over its food only because it is not 
as old and wise as its Univeristy 
officials. Because the student-run 
new~paper ?ften prints artic!es ~ith no 
ment, I bel!~ve that the Umvensty, in 
the best Interests of ''in loco 
parentis," should take over the print­
10g of The Observer. . In addition to making sure that the students read only the best about the University, the administration should make sure that the students hear only the. best also. Having a student-run rad1o station is a terrible mistake. Students can not be studying-while they_ are playing records. Umversity officials should take over the radio stati~n 10 o~der ~o .J?Iay only soft classical music, wh1ch IS conducive to studying and sleeping. The news in addition to relating the events of 'the world, can also include administrative accounts of events happening within 
..

the school. Having the radio station at 
its disposal will enable the University 
to further educate the students as to 
the school's goodness. The radio 
waves of the other stations in the area 
can be distorted easily enough so that 
the students only receive the Univer­
sity's radio station. Students will think 
that the cause of the disruption is due 
to other students' hairdryers. 
One may think that in addition to cen~oring the n~wspaper and the radio station that mad and telephone calls shouldalso be censored. However because the students will not know of hardly anything wrong happening at the University, they will not be able to write home about anything bad. Newsletters can be sent to all the students' parents regularly, informing them of all the interesting events at the great University. The parents will naturally tell all their friends about the school in an effort to impress the, so the good name of the school will be gradually spread around the world. 
In order to keep the name of Notre Dame number one in the minds and hearts of all the people of the world, Dean Roemer must act now to stop the many slanderous lies the students tell their parents and friends about the school. The only way I can see that Dean Roemer can keep the name of the school great is to make sure that the students and their parents love the school. That means that the students should only read and hear what the University wants them to read and hear. After all, that is what censorship is all about. 
MEGA-TALK: 
ND's Linguistic Babble 
Joe Ryan 

Doe, the class throat, blows it off to the 
min, though. That ruins the curve." 
"Isn't he a rah-rah?" 
"What can I say? We're going to . screw him over tonight to prove who's 
boss. It's gonna be excellent!" 
. ::Hey, sounds good. Listen, go for 
lt. 

"I will. I've been working a lot on 
pimping his---, and frankly, we're 
talkmg mega-abuse." 
"I'd like to see that, but I have a 
class.". 

"Hey, blow it off! Let's ~o for it. It 
should be me~a-excellent.' 
"Okay, we II see. Do you have 
anr,thing else to tell me?" 
'Oh, yeah. If you don't want to get 
mega-screwed over, we're talkmg 
later (as in much) on being pimped by 
a bummed out throat. Don't blow 1t 
off--~0 for it, because it'll be excel­
lent! ' 

"Hey, sounds good," I said as I left. 
Manny Charlton attempts some squealing guitar riffs to ease the boredom of the simplistic, thundering rhythm section and, while his fingers are very quick, t~e riffs just meander endle_ssly unul they lose all effectiveness they might have once 
held. · .,.. ;y·new disciples. 
Only the die-hard Nazareth fanatic 
will find this album enjoyable but for 
that matter, who else finds any 
Nazareth album enjoyable. The Naz will probably continue to keep its loyal following while, with albums such ai · Ng.·Mean City, picking up very few 
---~------------~--­
The Observer 

Bridgets presents 
Happy Hour 
4-7 
Drafts 3 for $1 50' Bar drinks 
FREE Cheese and Crackers and Popcorn 
r-------coupon-------...
1 Ule yellow SusmaRJn€ 1 
1 'a 4R€at taste sensation' I 
1I 25¢ orr any II 
I susmaRJn€ sanbw1ch I 
With this ab 1I qoob (\pRtl 29-may 3 1 
I I
1 Qpen (:n1 cmb Sat till 1 am 1 1 phon€ 1n oR0€R m aovanc€ ~oR 1 1 Qu1k Plk-Up SeQVIC€ I 1 catl 272-4453 I 118109 Stat€ RO. 23 (acROSS ~ROm f=at Wally's)l 
·----------------­


A man dreams ofwinninn. A woman dreams oflovinn. A dreamer dreams ofboth. 
TIM MATHESON SUSAN BLAKELY JACK WARDEN 
A MICHAEL LOBELL PRODUCTION as Harry 
DREAMER 

Produced by MICHAEL LOBELL · Direaed by NOEL NOSSECK 
Written by JAMES PROCIDR & LARRY BISCHOF· Music by BILL CONTI 
COLOR BY DeLUXE ® 
CliJ 

PGIPMEIIlM. GIMJAIIl SUGGESTED ..
I._"'"-"''""'II SUIT_,""'w:J 
...@..,. '"'"''"" CIN'""'·'O' • 
Starts today at a theatre near you. Check local newspaper for specific theatre listing. 

Friday, April 27, 1979 -page 12 

Sigma Xi honors teachers 
The Notre Dame Chapter of Sigma Xi, the Scientific Re­search :Society , will honor two South Bend high school teach­ers at its annual dinner tonight at the Morris Inn. 
Wilbur (Jack) Goodman of John Adams Htgh School and Patrick Gullifor of Washington High School will share the chapter's first annual award to high school teachers for out­standing dedication in the teaching of science and for encouragement of scientific re­search. 
''We believe that these teachers fully represent in ac­complishment, spirit and tone the type of high school instruct­or that the Sigma Xi award was designed to honor,'' said Dr. John W. Lucey, associate pro­fessor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering at Notre Dame and chapter president. 
Goodman has taught chemis­try to honors program students at Adams since 1962. Gullifor, who has taught biology at Washington smce 1960, has served as science department chairman for 10 years. 

Dr. Kathleen Weigert named new Assitant Dean 
Dean Charles came I thought it byJanet Rigaux 
was a great opportunity." Maas Weigert stated. 

Dr. Kathleen Maas Weigert Prior to her appointment, has been named the new assist­Maas Weigert's offidal title ant Dean of the College of Arts had been visiting professor. and Letters replacing Dr. Rich­According to O'Meara, "It is ard Thompson who is retiring at not unusual at all that a visiting the end of this year. professor should get an ap­
Maas Weigert was recom­pointment such as this. All that mended for the job by Dr. visiting professor means is the Isabel Charles, Dean of the Maas Weigert is a nonregular College ofArts and Letters. Fr. facultv member. She is not Theodore Hesburgh, University eligible for tenure." president and Dr. Timothy 0'­Maas Weigert is only the Meara, provost, approved the second woman to be appointed appointment, thus making it Assistant Dean at the Univers­official. ity. Dean Charles was the ftrst. 
According to O'Meara, "Dr. "Yes, I do feel some of my Maas Weigert is the right colleagues may think I was person for the job." given this job because I am a · Maas Weigert's main func­woman. However, I feel I am 
tion will be working with the competent for the position.'' students of the Arts and Letters Maas Weigert asserted. "Also, pre-professional program and ND does need more women the combination five-year pro­faculty. Right now only 11 per gram with the College of cent of its faculty are women Engineering. Maas Weigert compared to the 23 per cent also wants to get better ac­female undergrads." quainted with the entire Col­lege of Arts and Letters. She is also hopeful that she will be 
Engineers

able to continue teaching one course along with her adminis­• trative duties. 
recetve 

Maas Weigert has been teaching at Notre Dame since 1971. She ftrst taught in the awards Sociology and Anthropology Department. Then, in 1974, Four individuals received she began teaching Collegiate 1979 College of Engineering Seminar. Honor Award yesterday. 
''When Collegiae Seminar Edward B. Fitzpatrick, Jr., was discontinued, I thought I president of Fitzpatrick Con­wouldn't be able to teach here struction Corp.; Bernard J. any longer. So I applied to law Hank, Jr., chairman of tfi.e school. When the offer from board of Montgomery Elevator Co.; Dr. John J. Martin, assist­ant secretary of the Air Force
K ofC holds for research, development and logistics, and Thomas D. Me Closkey, president of McClos­
An Tostal key & Co., Builders, were honored for significant contri­butions to the advancement of
steak sale 

engineering.The Knighrs of Columbus The college also presented its 
will sponsor a. special steak sale third Outstanding Teacher A­for An Tostaltn front ofthe K of ward and recognized more than C Hall f~om 3-6 !!·~· today. 60 students who received spec· Anyone tnterested tn help1ng • ial honors during the academic should call the council at 7018. year. 
1 
l
The Observer Friday, April 28, 1979 -page 13 


TEHRAN, Iran (AP)--Ayatol­
lah Kuhollah Khomeini has 
ordered a speed up of revolu­
tionary justice in Iran, saying it 
will hasten the release of inno­
cent persons. It alsocouldmean 
more work for Islamic firing 
squads, who shot two more men 
yesterday. 
Justice officials said yester­
day that they are now investiga­
ting cases at Qasr Prison here 
ona 24-hour basis. 
The revolutionary govern­
ment also is consulting with 
American lawyers about bil-; 
lions of dollars in defense and 
commercial contracts signed 
with the United States by the 
toppled monarchy and will 
make the "appropriate deci­
sion" after it hears the lawyers' 
opinions, Deputy Prime Minis­
ter Abbas Amir-Entezam said. 
Some of the contracts signed 
with the United States by the 
government of toppled Shah 
Mohammad Reza Pahlavi 
already have been cancelled, he 
said. 
Government officials con­
firmed reports that Khomeini, 
leader of the Iranian revolution, 
was unhappy with delays in 
SMC hosts Christian lit con_ference 
A Conference on Christianity and Literature will take place at Saint Mary's Saturday and Sunday. Topics to be covered during the two-day Region XI meeting include Colonial Amer­ican Literature, Religious Crisis in Modern Fiction, Revelation and the Creative Imagination, Liturgy and Literature, and Modern Apocalypse: From Blake to the Present. There will also be a Poet's Corner at which participants will read and dis­cuss their own poetry. 
A plenary session will take place on Saturday in Carroll Hall. A joint presentation will be made by Sr. Maria Assunta, SMC, and William J. Urbock, University of Wisconsin-Osh­kosh. Titles of the presentation are "The Bible and the Arts: Samson" and "Samson: A Play for Voic~s. " ~evolutionary court proceed­mgs. 
Two more police officers of the old regime were reported executed by firing squads Thursday in Yazd and Isfahan on corruption and other charges. The executions brought to 160 the number of people executed on political, violence and morals charges since the revolution toppled the monarchy in February. 
More than 7,000 prisoners of the revolution are believed to be held in Iran, including 4,000 in Qasr. Government officials say they expect the revolution­ary courts eventually to be dissolved and their functions transferred to the government, a procedure that could be hastened by the latest decision. 
Officials said a new provi­sional assistant revolutionary prosecutor "\fas appointed Wed­nesday in Tehran and other judges have been added to courts in the capital and the provinces in order to hasten the Judicial process. 
State radio said yesterday that 28 officials of the old resime had been released on bad in the ca('"al in the previous 48 hours. 
In southern Iran's oil-rich Khuzestan province, ethnic Arabs rressed their demands for loca autonomy but said they were willing to leave the vital oil industry, defense matters, foreign policy and long-term economic policies in the hands of the central government. 
Oil from the province sup­plies 90 percent of Iran's foreign income, Mehdi Shoe­beiri, a spokesman for the autonomy movement, said the ethnic Arabs want a greater share of the oil income to be spent in developing their region. 
Students wzll have little trouble driving on campus in two weeks but for now it's offlimits. 
• • • Press 
[Continued from page 5] 

the Stanford Datly decision, and taken in context with that, this is a bad precedent. The negatives of this decision con­sideralby overrun the posi­tives." 
The Court's majority opinion was written by .Justice Byron R. White, joined by Chief Justice Burger, and Associate Justices Blackmun, Powell, Rehnquist, and Stevens. Dissenting were Justice Brennan, Marshall and Stewart, each of whom wrote their own opinions. 
Justice White wrote that ''Accoriding an absolute privil­ege to the editorial process of a media defendant in a libel case is not required, authorized or presaged by our prior cases.'' Dissenting Justice William Brennan responded by saying, ''Through the editorial process expressiOn is composed; to regulate the process is, there­
fore,  to  regulate the expres­ 
sion.''  
WNDU-TV's  Harry  

Kevorkian, Director of Tele­communications and Broadcast Standards, agreed with Brennan, saying the decision posed a "serious threat" to First Amendment rights. Kevorkian also pointed out that some journalists may be more reluctant in pursuing a contro­versial story--what many have referred tc as the ''chilling effect'' of the decision. 
News director Mike Collins of WNDU-TV opted that, "the interesting thing is that it (the decision) has to do with libel cases, and a lot of people must realize that it's going to cause a proliferation of libel cases, sim ply to get at information (they wouldn't have otherwise been able to· obtain).'' 
Additionally, Collins pointed out that "I think the Court has opened up a real Pandora's Box. Who's going to say what was in a reporter's mind? Who's going to know? ... It could come down to all sorts of silly things, and who's going to know whether you're telling the truth? I don't believe in mind readers; I don't know if the Supreme Court does.'' 
Collings also noted that he had just received a subpoena, based on the Farber and Stan­ford Datly decisions, for all notes and memors on a pre­viously aired story. "The Farber precendent has reached Middle America,'' he said. 
The New York Times seemed to present the media's prevail ing viewpoint; "Yet again, a majority of the present Court has shown itself insensitive to the protections that behind-the­scenes news gathering and editing require if the media are to have the freedom of public expression that the Court pro­perly values." 
The editorial concluded, "We hope this latest decision will not mean that the cost of protection for a vigorous press 1s virtually unlimit~d intrusion into the editorial process. That remedy could prove as harmful as the disease.'' 
lAttent1on Current Transfer~ 
The orientation committee is looking for intPrested students, especially current transfers, [O help out with next year's incoming transfers. The committee is working with the off-campus council in planning such activities as a wine 
and cheese recPption, bar-b-que and happy hour. It won't take much of your time and we need a lot of people so that each· transfer will be paired off. If you are interested call 
Lori 288-3933, John 8847 or Anne 1322 for more inf6rmation 
ARNABY'S 
the family inn 713 E. jefferson, South Bend 288-4981 3724 Grape Rd., Mishawaka· 256-0928 
save now on our 
$1 00 
summertime pizza • 
special DISCOUNT 
-------cOUPON•-----~
•sl 00 OFF 
oN ANY •

I . 14" PIZZA I
I • Limit 1 coupon .,_ Phu:a I ..______IBARNABY'SI ______ 
coupons good thru june 1 dally hours 
~j -------~00~------~
l50c O·FF 1~~ ~;;A I
I LI~J~It 1 coupon per Piz&41 I L------IBARNABY'SI_____... 
DAILY 
Monday thru Thursday 1 a.m. to 11:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday 11 a.m. to 12:30 a.m.HOUIS: Sunday 4 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
..---------~----------------------------------~ 

The Observer Friday, April 27, 1979 -page 14 
(AP)-Syrian and Israeli Palestinian raiders attacked the The Tel Aviv newspaper If Israel directly opposes the fighter jets streaked ominously coastal Israeli town of Nahariya Y ediot Ahbronot said Israel had Lebanese army ''The truth will over Beirut yesterday and early Sunday, Four Israeli's and asked U.N.authorites to extra­appear naked,'' said Assad. 

Christian militiamen lobbed two of the raiders were killed. mortars into two southern Israeli military authorities,Palestinians Lebanese villages after an meanwhile, conftrmed reports Israeli bombardment of Pales­that they suspect French Capt. tinian camps in Sidon. Oliver Fabre, who served with Despite the action, a U.N. forces in southern Leba­SJ?.Okesman for the Palestine non, of providing the PLO withdeny treaty 
Liberation Organiation said, pictures of Israel military 
there had been no "signifi­spokesman, who asked not to 
cant'' violations of an early be named, said the photo­
morning U.N. truce that ended graphs may have aided the PLO 
four days of fightins between attack on Nahariya.
violations in Israel and Palestiman Guer­The spokesman said Israeli­rillas. backed Lebanese Christian 
Lebanon 
A. U.N. spokesman in Jeru-­forces stopped Fabre at a salem also said the truce), roadblotk and confiscated his arranged by U.N. liasons in camera and film. The film was Israel and Lebanon, was hold­given to Israeli authorities who mg. said it contained photos of 
The truce was called after Israeli military installations, four days of cross-border shoot­Israel forbids photography ofits ing that erupted when four bases. 
Featuring Samuel Adler 
Music festival opens today 
The Saint Mary's department tions. Briggs, and solo performancesof music will rresent its first Tomorrow morning at 9:30, by Nancy Wandland, soprano,annual Festiva of New Music Adler will conduct a workshop Nancy Kennedy, mezzo­from today to Sunday. Featur­on ''Problems in New Music.' SOJ?rano, and pianists Roger
ed guest during the Festival Three more events will take Bnggs, Jeffrey]acob and Ruth will be composer, conductor place on Saturday. At 12:30 Fischer. and lecturer Samuel Adler. p.m. ] effrey Noonan, SMC 
Samuel Adler was born inDuring the Festival, Adler department of music, will pre­Mannheim, Germany in 1928
will lecture and conduct work­sent a forum and performance and came to the United Statesshops on performance and c?m­on ''New Music for the Gui­in 1939. He founded andposltion aspects of Twentieth tar." At 2 p.m., Adler will conducted the 7th u.s. ArmyCentury music. All events will direct an open rehearsal of the Symphony Orchestra during
take place in the Little Theatre Saint Mary's Chamber Singers of Moreau Hall. The pulic is and at 8 p.m. on Saturday, a World War II. Because of the 
Orchestrru's great psychologi­
invited to attend all events of music departmentt faculty con­cal and musical impact on thethe Festival as guests of the cert will be held. 
music department. On Sunday at 1 p.m. there European cultural scene, he AT 3:30 p.m. today, Adler will be class and private in­was awarded the Medal of will present a lecture to the struction in composition direct­Honor. general public in the Little ed by Adler. The last e ·ent of Adler's published works in­Theatre. Tonight at 8, there the Festival will be anAL Adler clude four operas, five sym­will be a concert featuring Concert at 8 p.m. on Sunday. phonies, six· string quartets, 
violinist Barry Ross with the Fe~ured groups will ~e the many shorter orchestral works, Western Michigan University Srunt Mary's Chamber Stngers, chamber music, choral music wind ensemble in a perform­u'nder the dirrectioon of Ray­and songs. ance of composer Lawrence mond Sprague, the Saint Since i966 Adler has been 
Ruckley' s new violin concerto. Mary's Children's Choir, under professor of composition at the The second half of the program the direction ofJoyce Scheman­Eastman $chool of Music and will be devoted to student ske, a student intrumental en­chairman · of the compostionperformances and composi-semble directed by Roger department since 1974. 
HAVE YQUR WEDDING LOVE STORY 
Flautists 
CREATIVELY TOLD 
featured 

FAMILY PORTRAITS INTHEHOME. 
in recitals 

Flautists from the Notre
INSTANT PASSPORTS & 
Dame/Saint M~'s community
APPLICATION PHOTOS 
will be featured m recitals this weekend. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., ] ill Beery will give her Senior
PHOTO COPY AND 
Recital. The Notre Dame Flute 
2301 ffilaffil 
RESTORATION 

Quartet with Marilyn Thomas­
232-9963, 

sen, Maureen Mara, Margie
SOUTH BEND, IN CHILDREN ANIMALS 
Epig, and]ill Beery will ~so be featured. 
Sunday, at 2 p.m. the stu­dents of Lisa Fungsten Maho­ney will give their Spring Recital. Soloists are Mary Ahern, Jill Beery, Margie Epig, 
ATTENTION 
Morgan Griffus, Maureen Mara, Lauren McNulty, Caron Murphy, Scott O'Hara, Jeannie O'Meara, Amy Peczchowski, Marilyn Thomassen, Mary
JUNIORS 
Thornburg, and Cathy Wisnieu­ski. Adiienne Bant, Sander Francis, and Lisa Onderdank of the Notre Dame Prep Depart­

lntervi_ews are being scheduled 

ment will also perform. 
.. 

The program will include
for the position of 
works from Mozart, Hyden, Beethoven, and various classi­
Senior Arts 
cal and conttemporary composi­tions. 
Next Saturday, May S, the Notre Dame Flute Ensemble will conclued its season with a 
Festival Chairman 
All interested juniors should 
program of works using from four to fifteen flautists. Reci­
in the Student Union 
tals will be held in Crowley Hall and refreshments will be served 
oHice by Wed., ~ay 2 
afterward. All student and faculty are invited to attend. 
, 

Earth Science honors pro_(. with lecture series 
A series of public lectures on Landslides" by Dr. Barry geological topics will be held Voight at 8:30a.m. tomorrow. today and tomorrow to honor Voight is professor of geology Professor Raymond C. Guts­at Pennsylvania State Univer­chick, who is retiring after 32 sity and a geotechnical consul­years on the Notre Dame earth tant who does research on the sciences faculty. mechanics of rock slides, ava· 
More than SO graduates of lanches and faulting. He took is the Earth Sciences Department undergraduate and master's are returning for the sym­degree work in geology and posium to honor Gutschick, who civd engineering at Notre Dame 10 1977 received the National and received the Ph.D. degree Association of Geology Teach­from Columbia University. ers Neil Miner Award as an ''The Early Evolution of Ani­outstanding teacher who has mal Life in the Seas, or How made exceptional contributions Predictable Is the History of to the stimulation of interest in Life?" by Dr.]. John Seposki at the earth sciences. 9:45 a.m. tomorrow. Another 
All lectures will be held in the Notre Dame graduate, Sepkoski Center for Continuing Educa­received his Ph.D. from Har­tion auditorium and will in­vard and is assistant professor clude: of geophysical sciences at the 
--• 'Environmental Geology in University of Chicago. Concept and Practice'' by Dr. David D. Smith, at 1:45 p.m. today. Smith received the B.S. degree in geology from Notre Glee ClubDame in 1951 and graduate degrees in geology from Stan­ford. He is founder and presi­elects new dent of an environmental con­sulting firm in La] olla, Ca. 
--''The Logical Demands in officers Making a Historical Inference-­
The Notre Dame Glee ClubIllustrated by a Contemporary has announced the new officersProblem" by Dr. David W. 
for the 1979-1980 school year.
Stearns at 2:30 p.m. today. A Tim Fort, from Sorin Hall,1953 Notre Dame graduate, replaces senior Tom Conlin asStearns heads the Department president. John jacobs, aof Geology at Texas A&M Zahm resident, will handle theUniversity. A former geologist social affairs of the club asfor the Shell Oil Company, he is vice-president. John Dondan­a consultant on domestic and ville and Chris Fenoglio, bothinternational problems for the from Dillon, will handle thepetroleum industry. 
organization of the club's tours--"Continental Drift--from 
as business manager and
Heresy to Orthodoxy," a popu­publicity manager, respective­lar lecture by Dr. Robert S. 
ly. Tom Florack, another Sorin Dietz describing the current resident, is the new secretary.
theory to explain such pheno­Bill Scheuerman, from Holymena as the drifting of conti­Cross, rounds out the newnents and the formation of group of officers as treasurer.
mountain systems and ocean Anyone desiring to join thebasins at 4 f.m. today. Dietz is Glee Club or wanting informa­professor o geology at Arizona tion should call #6352 or theState University. He was a visit the office at 113 Crowleyclassmate of Gutschick at the Hall of Music from 4:30-6University of Illinois. 
Monday through Friday. 

--"Dynamics of Catastrophic dite Fabre, but that he had returned to France before the r~quest could be considered. Israel radio reported French authorites were unqware of the allegations against Fabre but promised to investigate. 
Syrian flights over Lebanon began Wednesday and obser­vers said they indicated a closer cooperation between Syria and the PLO, both staunch oppo­nents of the Israeli-Egyptian peace treaty. 
Lebanese Christian Militia­men led by an Israeli-backed dissident,army Maj. Saad Had­ord, declared a ''Free Leba­non" in a small enclave · near the border April 19 to protest the dispatching of Lebanese troops to the U.N. peacekeep­ing forces in the south. 
Lebanon sent the troops in an effort to reassert its authority. They were shelled by the forces of Haddad, who said they were pro-Syrian and too weak to 1 contain the Palestinian guerrilla raiders. 
Syria, whose troops ended the 1975-76 civil war in Leba­non; remains the dominant, military presence in Lebanon. 
Syrian President Hafez Assad, in an interview with Radio Monte Carlo, said the Lebanese army has to continue its efforts to control in the south, whether it is resisted by Haddad and Israel or not. 
"That is, that Israel will appear to the whole world as havtng in fact annexed a new portion of Arab territory." 
Israel is backing Haddad, who shares its concern over Palestinian inftltration. 
Lebanese authorities said Haddad's forces killed six Leba­nese when they shelled the village of Hasbaya near the Golan Heights, and fired on 
U.N. troops in nearby Knkaba, wounding a Nepalese soldier. 
In New York, the U.N. Security Council agreed to meet ''without delay to consider the situation" if any more serious incidents occur, and announced "deepest concern" over what it called a' 'signmcant increase in the tension in the area." 
The PLO said Israel's air, land and sea bombardments over the past four days killed 27 Palestinians. Lebanese provin­cial authorities said 60 Palestin­ians and Lebanese were killed. 
There was no casualty report on the Israeli Naval shelling of camps near Sidon. 
Egypt se'.Cered diplomatic re­lations with Lebanon and Bah­rain yesterday after both those nations announced they were cutting ties to Egypt, they brought to 13 the number of Arab nations that have broken with Egypt over its peace with Israel. 
'. 


------------------·--------..·-------------~-·-··--· ..... -. --------------· -· 
------------~ --~­

The Observer Friday, April 27, 1979-pagel5 



@1978 M1ller Brewing Co., Milwaukee, Wis. 
.
. . I~I 
'. 
.',I 
'j. I 


,.r-----'!lr'~---­
' \i.tli 
The Observer Friday, April 27, 1979 -page 16 

Thatcher canvases 
•

U.K. 10 orange bus 
Ell.AND, England (AP) Oppositon party leader Marga ret Thatcher's sweep aroun · Britain looks more like a roya tour than a campaign to take o Prime Minister James Callag han's Labor Party in the May general elections. 
Callaghan is sticking to low-key approach that make 53-year-old Mrs. Thatche seem positively flamboyant a seh bowls across Britain in a orange bus, trailing a cavalcad' of journalists in more buses. 
Callaghan's Labor gover ment, beset by striking union and economic setbacks, lost confidence vote in the House Commons last month. Parli ment was dissolved and ele tions for a new governmetn w set for next month.
Taking time out from pressing engagements, these students enjoy their afternoon girl 
Both campaigners preac
watching on the Saint Mary's campus. [Photo by Tracy jane McAuliffe] 
their causes mainly to 

converted -gatherings at par 
offices or, for Mrs. Thatcher, i 
hotel dining rooms packed wit 
River City Records/Celebration 
cheering/arty workers. 
vtson an newspaper coverag
Loyal Cambodians flee 
takes care of the wider aud
Belkin Proudly present 
ence. So the two party leadBANGKOK, Thailand (AP)-­Thai villagers, mostly ethnic
Tom Jones 
personally see little evidence 

A Vietnamese-led offensive has Chinese, were sellin~ the Cam­the public divisivenessdriven large numbers of Cam­bodians food, medtcine, salt, gives the Conservatives a nbodian soldiers and civilians cigarettes and plastic sheeting rowing, but winning, lead oveloyal to the toppled government at inflated prices. Headache Labor in the opinion polls. 
of Pol Pot into remote mountain pills were going for twice the Mrs. Thatcher -still somstrongholds, but it may be too normal rate. 
what of a schoolmarm inlittle, too late to exermtnate the The movements into Thai­approach -continues toousted premier's following, land have allowed a glimpse of behind the warm, chucklinanalysts say. the Pol Pot soldiers in action. 
67-year-old Callaghan in persThey say the central Pol Pot They appeared confident, dis­nal popularity. 
leadership still appears to be ciplined and tough. Some In the chilly industrial areaintact inside Cambodia and exhibited the ruthlessness that of the northeast, like 1 that the Vietnamese may be was the hallmark of the Pol Pot Yorkshire town, press· moving too slowly to finish the regtme. 
voters get to jostle the

job before the heavy monsoon 
Thai authorities said two vil­gracious candidate as she visit 
Irains come in the next two 
lagers who cheated the soldiers factories and old people's
months _and bog down their
Wednesday, May 23 ·8:00pm 
out of the equivalent of $100 homes.
mechanized forces. 

were shot dead and several There are no public meetings 
"I don't think the Vietna­
Notre Dame ACC 
civilians with the group whomese have dealt a death blow to 
Tickets $12.00!$10.00 all seats reserved 
Pol Pot yet, " one Western diplo~at says of the month-old
and go on sale this frida_y April 27 at 
offenstve. 

9:00am at the ACC Box office onlv! 
The Vietnamese focus has been on the Thai-Cambodian
On sale mondav at all River Ci~y Review 
border areas of western Cam­
ticket outlets 
bodia and has forced tens of thousands of Pol Pot troops and 
Limit 10 Tickets Per Person 
civilians to seek temporary refuge in Thailand. 
I 
i 
t~ 
I 
U-Haul Moving and Storage k~ Reserve your trunk or trailer at our l ~ ronvenient reservation booth right'll , (}'_) -· •""' on campus. U-Haul representative in the Tom Dooley Room adjacent to the Huddle in LaFortune ••••••••••••• April 30 thru May 9th ••••••••••••••••••••• Special student discount on storage space  

refused to return to Cambodia had their throats slit. 
Over the weekend 50,000 or more fled into Thailand and most had re-entered Cambodia on Wednesday, heading to set UP. a base on a series of jungle htlls. 
The Vietnamese and the new Vietnam-backed Phnom Penh government have put up to 50,000 troops into western Cambodia, mostly in four areas along the 500-mile-long fron­tier. 
These, according to Thai and Western sources, are the northern Cambodian province of Oddar Wean Chey and its capital of Samrong where they scored a relatively easy victory, south of the key border crossing town ofPoipet where the 50,000 exited; further south alons the border around the gem-mming town of Pailin and in the southwestern corner of Cam­bodia which borders the Gulf of Ziam. 
The Vietnamese, equipped with Soviet-made tanks and heavy artillery pieces, took advantage of good roads lead­ing to Samrong, Poipet and Pailin, but the southwestern corner is a rugged region which includes Cambodia's highest mountains and a maze of off­shore islands and estuaries. It is here that many observers predict the Pol Pot guerrillas will choose to make it a fight, and where the Vietnamese will have the toughest time rooting them out. 
and thus no heckling. Party aides say the public meetings are avoided for reasons of security. Police surveillance for both leaders has been stepped up since Irish guerrillas killed a top Tory politician March 30' wtth a car bomb outside the House of Commons. Fighting over the British presence in Northern Ireland has intensi­
~ed and become a campaig 
ISSUe. 

Most observers think Mr Thatcher's speeches befor ticket-only audiences reflect h managers' privately expresse view that there is little to b gained in exposing her t shouting matches with trad union men in village halls. 
Her message that she wi lead Britain out of Labor' "drab, grey world of socialism into an era of free enterpris lower taxes and restored J.>re tige abroad gets more televtsio coverage than Callaghan doe anyway. 
Callaghan holds the old-sty! evening meetin~s for all, b because of secunty they are n publicized. Apart from traveling group of Irish hec lers, audiences appear to con sist almost entirely of Lab supP.orters. 
Like Callaghan, Mrs. Tha cher makes her person appearances in the 50-od marginal electoral districts th Conservatives must hold wrest from Labor if she is th become Europe's ftrst woma prime minister. In these di tricts, a swing of one perce either way would mean victo 
-------------------~ ---­


The Observer 
Businessm.en evade crutial issues 
DETROIT (AP) -Business­men have too often ''refused to confront some of the crucial issues ofour time,'' particularly consumerism, and have played . into the hands of their criucs, 
Henry Ford II said Thursday. 
The chairman of Ford Motor 
Co. also said he was "not 
totally convinced" that capital­
ism could survive, but was 
inclined to believe it. 
Ford spoke in Chicago at a 
conference sponsored by the 
University of Chicago Business 
School. His text was released 
in Detroit. 
Noting that his company 
offered seat belts as an option 
in 1956, Ford said, "We had 
trouble selling those seat belts. 
The public didn't want to spend 
the extra money on them. And 
so we stopped trying to push 
the safety belt. 
''With the benefit of hind­~ight, it is my personal convic­tion that that was a mistake." 
Had the company tried ~arder to sell belts in the 10 

years after 1956, he said, "we might have succeeed ultimately in converting the public to the advantages of safer cars, and ­at the same time -we might wll have avoided many of the regulations with which we and our customers must presently deal." 
In a companion example of shortsightedness in his own company, Ford said despite the introduction of the subcompact Falcon in 1960, "we didn't really make an all-out effort in the subcompact field until the 1970's" with the introduction of the Pinto in 1971. 
"In the 19th Century capital­ism's greatest shortcomings were its evils, bad working conditions, shoddy products, exploitation ...Today one of capitalism's greatest shortcom­ings is its inability to make a better case for itself, to boast of the high quality of th.e condi­
tions in its factorios, the excel­lence of its products, the fair­ness of its pricin~, the value of 
K;ross-countt:Y bus drivers ask .for CB radios 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Cross­
country bus drivers are asking 
the government to order their 
companies to permit them to 
install CB radios for use in 
accidents . and other highways 
emergencies. 
But officials of some compa­~ies, including Greyhound and ~~railways, want to keep their rarivers 10-7, or off the atr. The 
radios's disadvantages out­
weigh their advantages, they 
contend. 
Both sides aired their posi­
tions last month at hearings 
here and in Salt Lake City by 
the Federal Highway Adminis­
tration and the National High­
way Traffic Safety Administra­
tion. . "I would like to point out that every other mode of mass transportation has two-way communications trains, , planes, steamshifs, city bus 
. lines and taxis,' Greyhound 
driver Robert P. hvans of 
Denver told the panel. 
Kenneth R. Moore, interna­tional vice president and direc­tor of the bus department of the AFL-CIO United Transportation Union, told of benefits to both 
the bus companies, their dri­
vers and the public. 
"For management," he said, 
"there is the benefit of 
increased avoidance of traffic 
delays arising from weather, 
accidents and construction and 
repair work, therefore assuring 
more nearly on-time perfor­
mance ... plus customer satisfac­
tion. 

"For the public ... it (CB radio) has proven its capability to provide safety and security, it can summon urgently needed assistance for cases of sudden illness or injury, it can obtain information on unforeseendan... gerous highway conditions or call for help ... " 
But Robert J. Forman, chair­man of the safety committee of the American Bus Association and Greyhound vice president for safety, and Robert G. Begeman, Trailways director of safety and security, disagreed . 
"The proponents ... will tell you that CBs are needed to help the driver avoid accidents, pre­vent bus hijacking, control unruly passengers,et cetera,'' Begeman said. "These allega­tions are simply not supported by fact. 
its contribution to social life,'' 
Ford said. 
Ford noted the prediction 40 
years ago by the p_ro-business 
econ~mist Joseph Schumpeter, 
prom10ent opponent of Keyne­
sian theorgy which rules much 
economic thought today, that 
capitalism was doomed. 
Ford added, "I say that I am 
inclined to say that he was 
wrong, but I am not totally 
convinced he was wrong ... it 
would be presumptuous -espe­
cially in an age that has 
produced a powerful and articu­
late new class of anti-bussiness 
ideologists -to totally dismiss 
his prediction." 
Art dept. to spon,sor workshop 
The Saint Mary's department of art will sponsor two days of workshops tomorrow and Sun­day for department members and invited artists and art educators from the Michiana area. Saturday's workshop is entitled ''Teaching Concerns'' 
and Sunday's is "Critique 
Bicycle racing was among the varied events ofAn Tostal's
Dynamics.'' 
Gentle Thursday. [Photo by Phil johnson] 
Both workshops will be dir­ected by Doug Stewart, an internationally prominent figure in the field of higher education and the arts. Stew­art's workshops are widely known and his techniques and approaches have received · acclaim in the United States and Europe. 
The Cntique Dynamics work­shop _{>rovides an environment in which participants learn to explore and increase the range of their responses to visual imagery and expand their voca­bulary for dealing with imagery. They are also intended to extend one's skills in approaching the work of others with constructive and 
• creative analysis, while· stimu­lating insight into one's own work. 
The Teaching Concerns workshop attends to many of the difficulties that professional 
Ul€

art educators encounter, and attempts to assist the partici­pant in resolving conflicts 
Stub€Tlt GoveRnment 
which impinge upon teaching effective hess. 
tnvtt€s all tnans~€R stubmts to a rn€€ttnq to btscuss ways. to lffiPROV€ th€ tRanS~€RR10Cj PROC€SS 
anb StUb€l1t ll~€ ~OR tRanS~€RS ffi€€ttnG open to all tnans~€R stubmts 7 pm Wontun€ ltttl€ U1e.atR€ 
monbay apntl 30 
Campus Press Girl wanted to take /fill orders and do other office work for '79 -'80 year. 
Paid position. Needed 1-5 OR mwf or tt 
• 

Call office at 7047 by Monday April 30. 
----------------------------------------------------------~ 


} 
-----~~---------­
I / 
( 
j 

Th_e Observer Friday, April 27, 1979 -page 18 
W. Virginia 
•
communtty silently remembers disaster 
Molarity 
~IM, DO YOU WAJir71:> CC»'f£ MIVE TO CJIICAGO, 1/AV£ ~HNEX AIJ() PAIHY AND STUFF? 

Noddy 

The Daily Crossword 

Editor's Note: A yearago today a power plant cooling tower collapsed dun'ng its construc­tion in Wzflow· Island, W. V., and 51 workers died. Now the collapse is barely mentioned in the town, it's still too painful. But lawyers and safety experts talk about it, trying to assess blame and damages. 
WILLOW ISLAND, W. Va. (AP) -One year later, the scaffolding collapse is seldom mentioned. But it's not because it's forgotten. 
Explains Robbie Lewis]r., a councilman in nearby St. Mary's, "It's an unwritten rule that it is left out of public discussion. Of course, tt's in the forefront of everybody's mind, but it's just never talked about.'' 
Fifty-one men died when the scaffolding inside a power plant cooling tower collapsed during its construction on April 27, 1978. A year later, a few widows have remarried, more is known about what happened on the tower, and the wheels of justice are spinning, assessing blame and damages. 
And though this the second worst construction accident on record is seldom mentioned, it is remembered vividly. 
''People try to forget. But the ones it hit directly -they're never going to forget it," explains Peggy Coffman, who is active in an organization of relatives of those killed in the disaster. 
Mrs. Coffman's younger sis­ter, Lola, 32, lost her husband, Tom Cross, in the disaster. Lola and Tom had been high school sweethearts and married right out of school. Last April, they were half finished with thetr dream house, a brick colonial home on a ridge over­looking the Ohio River. The house was being paid for as it was built, brick by brick, pay­check by paycheck. 
Tom, an ironworker, enjoyed hunting and fishing with his sons, Troy, 12, and Scottie, 8. ''He was quite a likeable fellow. Everybody liked him," said his sister-in-law. 
Lola said she will never forget the day of the accident. 
She immediately drove  to  the  
construction site, but was  not  
let inside.  

"I found Tom's truck and some of the other guys came out," she remembers. But in those frantic moments no one was certain who had been on the tower. There was a wait. Later, Tom's body was found by his father and brother, also construction workers. 
Her sons, she said, only belatedly realized the scope of the accident. "Within a couple of weeks afterwards, they real­ized he wasn't coming home," she said. 
Lola has remarried, and her new husband, systems analyst Bob Bowen, has tried to help the boys. "Bob takes the boys hunting. They went fishing yesterday," she said. 
And the house is completed. Only the landscaping needs to be finished. 
The tower of course is not completed. Only about half-fin­ished at the time of the acci­dent, it still looked imposing from the nearby highway. Later the scaffohng rubble, a twisted mass of heavy lumber, steel rods and steel netting, could be seen from the same roadway. 
by Michael Molinelli 


by Jim Canavan 
19 Breakfast cereals 21 Soccer great 
24 Essays 
25 Social class 26 Earthen 
pots Z1 Eydie 28 Explained 29 Increase 
30 Pilot 
32 Marine recruits 
35 Refuseto accept change 
36 Detained persons 
38 Early Jewish scholar 
39 Mature 
equine 41 Pressed 42 Wheeled away 44 Arthur­Doyle 
46 Thickening 
agent 46 Confront 47 Inflame 48 Fatigue 49Legendary 
monster 50 Space 
52 Possessive 
At the work site, prepara­tions are under way for a resumption of tower construc­tion. Stanley Elliott, the man who heads the Occupational Safety and Health Administra­tion's West Virginia operations, said contractor Research Cottrell is making changes in its scaffolding system. He said the company has agreed to give OSHA 10 days notice before it resumes ,construction·. 
The Willow Island disaster spawned about $140 million in lawsuits against seven compan­ies involved in constructing the tower. Twenty-one of the 22 suits on file in the Pleasants County Courthouse are being handled by the law firm headed by Stanley Preiser, one of the state's leading trial lawyers. 
Five widows reached settle­ments without going to trial. 
The rest of the cases are not expected to go to trial until September at the earliest and, satd one lawyer, more likely next May. 
Meanwhile, a federal grand jury in Elkins, W.Va., has begun its own investigation and could return indictments. 
The case was turned over to the]ustice Department last fall after OSHA completed its probe of the accident. 
OSHA cited the contractor, Research-Cottrell of Bound Brook, N.]., with 10 willful and six serious civil violations, Pittsburgh Testing Laboratories with two serious civil violations and United Engineers and Con­structors Inc. with two serious civil violations. 

In a statement issued]une 8, OSHA chief Eula Bingham said the collapse would not have occurred "if proper tests had been conducted on concrete prior to removing forms, ifthe scaffold framework system had been properly secured to the tower, and if beam sections supporting the concrete lifting system had been anchored and maintained to support the max­imum load." 
The violators are being appealed by the companies involved, and some residents are angry that the charges were not stronger. 
Richard Bowser, whose son Lynn died in the accident, founded a group to push for an independent investigation into the accident. But, he said, many in the group chose not to speak out. 
''The attorneys, they asked them not to speak out in public because they could jeopardize their chances for compensation somewhere down the road," Bowser said. 
Deep bitterness also remains over news coverage of the disaster. People here resented what they saw as intrusion into their privacy and efforts to depict them as "hillbillies." 
They also complainedoferrors in news stories, one of which mentioned the popularity of Mail Pouch tobacco. 
Foreign students hold festival 

An International Festival will be held tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. The event will feature songs and dances from a number of foreign countries. The festival was originally founded as a night of culture for families hosting foreign students at Notre Dame and over the years has grown to its present stature. For more information, call Rick Reidy at 289-6016 or Maria Garcia at 234-6148. 
ACROSS 1 Havethe blues 5 Hysterical 
fear 10 Splendor 14 Russian 
city 15-Church Society 16 Melville work 17 Filltothe brim 18 Direct 
2.0 Mules 22 Cross Z3 "Over-" 24 "Better 
late­never" 

25 Lustrous resins Z1 Family 
members 31 Without aid 32 Seethes 33 Waragcy. 
ofthe40s 34 Gash 35 French 
philosopher 36 Screen =r1 Ught color 38 Particles 39 -Carlo 40 Gauge 42 Brother of 
Pollux 43 Ziegler and Nessen 44 -blanche 

46 Beableto 
manage 48 Bullfighter 51 Obtain 
advantage 53 Certain dancer 54 Land meas­
ure 56 Subtle airs 56 Continental 
prefix fil Donnaor Rex 58 General course 59 Hold back 
DOWN 1 Tiny plant 
2Test 3 Needlework 
4 Pachyderm 5 Journals 6 Love, Ital­
ian style 7 River nymph 8 Small hotel 9 Receptacle 
for miscel­
lany 
10 Neighbor of Germany Gulf off Saudi · Arabia 
man 13 Hoosegow 


lt18 
The Observer -Sports Friday, April 27, 1979 -page 19 
. 

Lost: a silver and turquoise ring west FROM METROPOLITAN NYC? Bear, To all you 'Mlnderfully bizarre people In downstairs man's room of Hal:s-Healy If you're aknowledgable football fan, you You're my honey. "Amp'X;Ion '79." Chuck, Jeannie,Notices on Wednesday mornin~, April , early. can earn up to $500 next fall. Send for Love, little one Pam, n, Sue, Beth, Greg, Brian, Please call Daryl at 84 7 or 8573. application: Mr. Young, the football Dottle, Chrissy, Mary, John, Pat, ~ke, Anyone Interested In Nocturne N~ht research Corporation, 6 11. 45th Street, Anyue with OBUD lllctltln bltlot bam. Jeff, Mary Beth, Colleen, Mark, lsa, Fll~ht positions for next year MUST gn Found: k:J:chain with SMC 1.0. Desper-New York, N.Y., 10017. PJIIII return ll1llllllliltlly. Tania, and Kevin, Rich, Tom, Matt, 
3262.
For Rent
Gay Students of Notre Dame/St. Mary's You stiffed us on Wednesday-Try and Gay Information Line keep par today. 8870 ' Marshall Dillon and ROT
For Sale
Two single furnished kitchenettes avail­
able for summer. Close by NO. Cali
Thursday, f'jf'ril 26, 1D-mldnlght Barb, Carla, Janet, Linda, Mary, and/or
272-6174.

Friday. AprI 27. 1D-mldnight For Sale: 1.1Cublc foot ref~el'ltDr. Uke Ju~, 
Sailing club remains afloat this spring 
Last fall the boathouse of the and the Irish · placed fourth June. Any interested in small
Notre Dame sailiing club was over-all in the re~atta, with boat racers should contact Phil destroyed by fire, but the club Jerry Davis as B skipper. 
Reynolds at 8732 to find outdid not go down with the about racing.
The sailing team will con­
boathouse. This spring the club 
tinue racing each weekend,
has been as active as they 
leading up to the nationals in
always have, with a strong ~chedule of intercollegiate sail­
• Track 

mg. • • 
Three weeks ago the active [Continued from page 20] team members attended a rac­
. Ruggers 
VanderKraats, who qualifieding conference to begin their for the NCAA's in the 10,000spring season. Easter weekend meters, and Lattig, who tookfound the team sailing at the 
[Continued from page 20] 
second in the steeplechase atFlying) uniors at Northwestern, 
line for a fourpointer. Later the Illinois Classic, will both be and they also sailed at the La:zer Bob Murphy scored four him­competing in the steeplechaseRegatta in Illinois last weekend. 
self, eoabling the Irish ruggers at Drake. Gough will run in thePhil Reynolds, race team cap­as a club to end up widi two high hurdles, and Perry Stowtain, placed second in the wins and one loss for the will be entered in the Poleclosely contested A fleet race, weekend. vault. 
Classifieds 
up or 11 brief lntllfVlaw held on April 26 or ately ne ed!! If found, call Rhonda, April 30. Sign up sheets and more details 4+4449. Fanatic frantically 5earchlng for Sprlnr are posted in the 'NSNO lobby on fourth steen bootlegs to tape. If you happen o 
floor O'Shag, or call TK at 3262. have any, please get in touch with TK at 
or write new. Make offer. 213-14 •
Nice house for rent this summer. Four
PO Box200 

bedroom, quiet nel~hborhood, ten min-
Senior must sell refrigerator$25. Call 
utes from campus. ust across the river.
Attention ell login Center volunt11111l 7820, ask tor Pete.
Call 6637 tor details. Come fly a kite and relive all your Moving sale: sofa-bed, curtains, ~I ants,
Two bedroom apt. Partially furnished,
childhood days ~aln I This Saturday Is g;.ctures, bookcase, desk, file ca inets,
male grad students only.
kite-flying rae at ogan Center. We will nd arrangements. Call after 9 p.m., make plent~ of kites and brln9 all the kids 272-6517.
Rooms, $40 month, summer or fall. Near
to Green Feld to run aroun and try out 
their creations. So come and spend aday rides, 233-1329. For Sale: 69 Oodr Coronet,~-· a.c.• outside and help achild learn to fly a kite. new everything! 75. Tony 2.
Need really big sound for your next
Come to Logan Center from 9 to 11 :30 
~? Two Peav~ loudspeakers with
this Saturday, Atl 28. If you have any For Sale: one pair Yamah'! NS1000 M
mixer/amp. dapts to ant system
questions, call d at 3444 or Walter at studio monitors. One and a half years 
3066. ~~eat sound magnification. all Bob, old, $550. One Lux M-2000 amplifier 
$500-·two years old. Contact Flanner TYPING. IBM Selctrlc, pickup and records. phone 4256. 
delivery, 2n-Q296. Mature student! Unique opportunlfy to sharelarHe furnished home near campus. 1966 VW-cheaper thru insurance. Runs. R.N.'s $130 Inc udes monthly room and other Call 289-9498. 
furnishings. 289-0103, nights. Nationwide vacancies and anticipated Brother Elec. Port. Type. Low price, call vacancies at this VA Medical Center for Randy 1062. 
Staff Registered Nurses and graduating 
Wanted
Nurse Technicians. Excellent salary and END OF SEMESTER SALE ON STEREO fringe benefits commmensurate with COMPONENTS. LOWEST PRICES experience and education--notably 26 Wanted: Driver to take car to San Diego. ANYWHERE* ALL MAJOR BRANDS working days vacation and 13 days sick Contact Sister Miriam, 284-4022 for AVAILABLE* ALL FULLY GUARAN•. leave per year In addition to nine paid terms. TEED. CALL SCOTT AT 283-6757 
holidays. Interested a8ftllcants should write or call Personnel fleer at the VA Waitresses wanted: Michlana's finest Medical Center, Marion, IN, 46952 night-club needs full or part-time help. 
Personals 
(317-674·3321. extension 315). Especially Interested In ~Iris staying on 
for the summer, who wou d rather spend Notre Dame women look for the men of ATTENTION Logan volunteers! The their days on the beach and work at n~ht. Keenan Hall, Sunday, 10 p.m.Saturday Rec !-shirts are In! Please pick Must be 21. Apply at Vegetable Bud es. them up in Room 509 Flanner. They are K of C Stea~ Sale! Friday, 3-6:30 p.m. only $3.40! We are sellin~ them at cost. Addressers Wanted Immediately! Work K of CHall. Don't ruin 1 perfect day with Questions, call Mike at 1 71. at home--no experience necessary-excell-an atrocious dinner. 
ent pay. Write American Service, 8350 Park Lane, Suite 127, Dallas, TX 75231. Deal of the decade. 11 Yoclus $11100.00 
ugly? Fr. Dan JeRky doan't think 10. heLost&Found Need four graduation tlx. Willing to pay bet his 10.yar aid beard T.lnst lt. $$$. Oave1158. Prove him wrongI VIII aclua far UMOC. Monltlry pniCIId go to cblrtty.
Lost: Navy-blue jacket full of Important 
wanted: Nllll two tlcbtl fer cammence­
kera· 1.0.• etc. at Dillon's party at Laa's 
1111111. Cllll Marilyn It 77311. Do you know someone who is:
B QWednesday~ll11. Pleasecneck to see if you 8t.c It up by mistake. 1! catcher tor the dart team?
Naed famala apartment mate for next 2 lunar surface simulator?
NEEDED BA LY!! Thanks. Gall Mary 
fall. Near University of Chicago. Call 3 a hand-breeder of horses?
Jean 8996. 
Debbie at 6995. Vota for UMOC. 
Found: Calculator In Huddle. Contact 
Wanted: Person(s) to rent one or two Orgill lfl my bull•
NO lost and found In ft.d BLDG. 
bedroom apartment at Campus View tor Fll II llllly. Call Mike at 234-3574 Mlb l,fla:
Lost: one 8:.r of Givenchy glasses. If 
after 6 p.m. Just another ~ to willl you luck
found call at 8375. 
on the MCAT sl I'll be thinking about Need two male housemates to share nice 
l:u while I'm out anrng SunnyLost: Calculator, Tl SR-5111, betwlln EG 
houle. Cars useful. call 289-9498. turdayl (Cruel, I know!
building and North Quad. call Jim at 
Shllllsh

3318. 
Wlltld: If I'U lit I UlliYinlty If
Lost: Jacket, blue, =Inside. Saturday 
Mldllpn bau:J.radualll ltudlllt .-. The dynamic Lenny Carie will entertain
Night, Senior Bar, . 
llg lplrt!Mftt for camllg yur, Clll you Friday at Recess 101. For sneak JICidl et SMe--..-~. previews, call 3721.
Lost: Girls blue cloth gym bag, sweats, Adidas spikes and Nlke Shoes. Please, Jat.
Wanted: female roommate tor summer.
please call Bid If found. The wish Is for your birthday; the love Is
$100 amonth. For Information, call Patty 
for always.
after 5, 2n-9&38.
Lost: 25 yr. old NO jacket worn by m~ MBD father. Blue cotton jacket with rnuow N 
Need two ~le to share fully furnished
emblem. Name tag M. Root n lining. Everyone In Ampllylrlon:
(with color house near cam~ us for the
Call 8276 If found. Knock '1111 dudI
summer. $70 a month. 289-1 18. 
when, and how much and It's yours. OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer and year PHILA. BAGGAGE TRUCK Claim must be made by Monday, April round. Europe, South America, Austral-meeting Monday, APrll30, Lewis Hall-$5 
30. Cali Kevin et 8631. Ia, Asia, ate. All fields, $501}$1200 d~slt will be collected--also, election of monthlt;_ Expensas~ld. Sightseeing. o lcers~estlons, call Marla (3433) or Fraa In Write: IJ , Box 52·14, Corona Mike (16 ).
Lost: Tan counduroy blazer with lmpor-
Dei Mar, CA, 92625. 
tan~. Saturday night, Senior Bar. Hot Pants, 4-1 Congratulations! Good lucie! Stllttto 
Chicago Griffins tomorrow Center dun'11g .1n Tostal 
--·­

All classified ads must be recetved by 5:00 o.m .. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observtr office will accept classtfieds Monday through Friday. 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All cla~sifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail. 
Mark and Glen (and just everyone!!) Frank, Break aleg tonight!! (P.S. Miles, I think Pretzels taste batter when I'm with ~a the ham Is sugar-cured!) 
Love, Mary Pat 

A er two days of An Tostal, Edina will But a chance on a date with a Walsh never seem the same again. Have a blast woman. You pick the girl! Three this weekend! Good to have you! I winners--3 dates! 25 cents apiece--five Love, for a dollar. First prlze--i:llnner at MarJaret Moonrakers. P.S.-Carla-the cookies went fast. uch. 
MUNCH OUT ON ASTEAK SANDWICH Jeannine and Usa: Don't miss the yellow AT THE K of Con the south quad (next to submarine coupon in this Issue for agreat the bookstore) Friday, 3-6:30. sandwich. Can also arrange golf lessons. 
ATTENTION!! Eric, Lucky easter eg~ finders ...~rlzes will be It's almost over! Good luck Saturday. distributed ton ght ~ .B. (Easter Can 'I wait until Saturday night. Bunnr) himself. For etails, call Lloyd Love, 
(1496 or Floyd (1486) rabbits. Sue 
Wildman: Mary B., Good luck on the MCATs tomorrow. We're almost there! Remember to keep "Do It for Notre Dame." thinking. Good luck!! Love, Kristin Rosemary, Susie, Beth Therese, Patty, Kathleen Janice and Beans-­Beth, Ann and Claire Welcome to NO. Have a great 
weekend!! 
\
Mertury, ' ' I know you'll wow 'em when you wall Have you hugged your Budd those blues! today? Bonne chance mon ami! Long time no see Mary B. and Eric, 
Good luck tomorrow. You'll do fine. When I heard about Amphytrlon '79 It After ail--good things come to good was like I was sitting on m~ patio and this people. guy appeared and I t ought I was Diane hallucinating. 
Kristin-­BAMA BAMA BAMA Tons of luck tomorrow on the big day. We're in trouble now!! Without those You'll do super--1 have faith. And DIMPLES where would you be?? Even remember-after the work come the though the honebmoon's over-1'11 forever playing. Good time to be had by ali. be a BAMA AD ICT. Kisses. 
BIW Your roomie 
P.S. I don't even mind the mess If you 
WhC did God make someone as ugly as can handle the Tucson hate yelling. YO IUSffHe Is ATROCIUS. GOd onl~ made one YOCIUS, and WOW Q: WHAT COULD BE WORSE THAN 
is he ug y. RAIN ON FRIDAY AFTERNOON? 
A: EATING FRIDAY DINNER IN THEc.,; Vltw lnflmlll, Slturdly Aprfl DINING HALL. 
21, :30 p.m., till bp. COIIII to till K of C111111 Sill, $1 fw I 1t1a1c on 1 balllry biD. 
THE ARTS AND LEnERS STUDENT 
ADVISORY counclllllnll C'll Applka-Betty M.­
tlllll bllng ......... ... llllt.;-r;·· Congratulations on beln~ grandma. 
.......... Clll .......... lt • Welcome to Scott Joseph k:Ox. 
DlaM Riel It 7131. CP 
P.S. Congrats to Grampa and the proud Need ride to MadiJon, Wisconsin, this parents also. weekend or next. call Don 1684. 
.111m M. 
Thl$ llllk'l baltlt II tlll11111111ry will be Tlllnk ,eu ,_1:...,~ ,_.. can1lltld blldnd till ACC, Slndly It ll1'lla 111 Nlt'l '1 Dly. H • 
IPPrtclatld.
noon, • till llllntld llllra11 1n111 till 
WSND IJIQI1I ltlff tab on tilt wondlrful LMIJ:'wrftwr1 frem till Dllltmrlpll'blflff In 
MM exc!Ung bllkltblll sllln. IM Plul -----------------­
Observer Staff-
Stauder flkld aut Df lila IIIDrtJI See Teny It's agood faallng to be so appreciated.
Pice try to make I ~II Stl lily 
I love you and the beautiful plant.
O'Brien try 1nd CIVIl' reg Mendltllll 
MOM

See Fl'lnlc LIGI'Ittl standing 111 till sldellnnlll That's 12 noen behind the 
PATTI SMITH IS GOD
ACC. Till Obsmtr allall l'llgnlllll 
all over between us!
SAO-

This is my day for thanking tho~htful CAP friends. Belatedly, I enjoyed tha 'day 
Kristin-
candy. Belter late than ever, huh? 
Good Iuck on Saturday. I know "' can
Love. 
dolt.
MOM 
= 

·Moritz till Bey 1found some moneyll Tall me where, Who Is Amphytrion. LAP­
I hope by the time you read this it will be 

~-~ ~---~------~ 
Friday, April 27, 1979 -page 20
S12orts 
Basketball tickets, available next week 
by Paul Mullaney Assistant Sports Editor 
All students who wish to reserve a season basketball ticket for 1979-80 Notre Dame games must do so next week, according to Ticket Manager Michel Busick 
Students interested in pur­chasing tickets should re.Port to the second floor ticket wmdows of the Athletic and Convocation Center during their specified times. Next year's seniors must report on Tuesday, May 1, juniors on Wednesday, May 2, Graduate and Law students on Thursday, May 3, and Sopho­mores on Friday, May 4. 
Issuing hours for the above days will be 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; including the noon hour. Students wishing to sit together m11st" reserve their tickets con­secutively. The Ticket Office will not accept any more than four student ID cards from one individual. 
It . is not mandatory that stu~ents p_ay for. their. tickets dimi.Ig thts spnng tssue. Accomodations will be made for those students wishing to be bi.lled gver the iummer There will be a specified deadline date for returnmg all bills along with the remittance. 

No orders will be taken next fall, so all interested students must reserve their tickets this spnng. 
The mechanics of seat assig­nment will be the same as last year, as will be the breakdown of the 5000 seats allocated to the students. The upperclasses will receive 4400 tickets, with incoming freshman receiving 400 and St. Mary's 200. 
If the allotment of 4400 tickets to the upperclassmen is not exhausted during the s~ring sale, extra tickets remaming will be given to the incoming freshman class. However, since a seniority system is utilized in distributing tickets to the srudents, a lottery would be necessary to determine which sophomore students would re­cetve tickets if the 4400 allot­ment would be insufficient to satisfy the demand. 
If a lottery is necessary, it would be conducted imme­diately after the sale ends on Friday, May 4. Students that would not be receiving tickets would then be notified. Any sophomore student losing in the lottery would automatically receive first priority for any cancellation that mtght occur during the course of the summer. 
The cost of a reserved lower arena seat will be $32 and $24 for a bleacher seat. These costs average out to $2 per game for a lower arena seat and $1. 50 for a bleacher seat. This contrasts the public reserved seat price of $5 and $3. 50, respectively. 
Married students desirous of purchasing adjacent tickets for spouses may do so this spring. The cost of a spouse ticket is $40 for a lower arena seat and $32 for a bleacher seat. 
The tenative home schedule for the 1979-80 basketball season is as follows: Nov. 15, Russian Nationals; Dec. 1, Val­paraiso; Dec. 3, Iowa State; Dec. 8, St. Louis; Dec. 11, UCLA; Dec 13, St. Joseph's; Dec. 22, Fairfield; Jan 15, Villanova; Jan 23, Canisius;Jan 26, Maryland; February 2, Davidson, Feb. 4, Navy; Feb. 6, Manhattan; Feb. 9, North Carolina State; Feb. 11, San Francisco; Feb. 24, Marquette; Feb. 27, DePaul. 
Irish ruggers suffer loss to ISU 
Even though the Notre Dame 
"A" rugby team suffered its 
second loss of the season last 
Sarurday, the day was not a 
complete disappointment, as 
the "B" and "C" teams cap­
rured victories of their own. 
In the "A" game Kevin 
Corcoran a!"ld J?e Witchger's 
trys weren t qutte enough to 
deafeat Illinois State Univer­
sity, as ISU defeated ND 17-10. 
The Irish looked tough in the 
first half enjoying a 10-7 lead at 
the half, but couldn't get rolling 
in the second half as ISU scored 
ten unanswered points. 
The fine serum ~lay of Bob Huguelet and Bnan Tucker gave the Irish several opportun­ities to score from deep within ISU territory, but ND could not capitalize. The Notre Dame ruggers were hampered by the absence of an injured Brian Hanigan as well as the fact that a few other key players were 

slowed by the nagging injuries not only scored a try, but also of a long season. blocked an ISU kick, permitting 
Earlier in the day, an un­Tom Wyler to J?ick up the ball knowing observer might have and scamper m for a four­thought he was watching the pointer. Gloss added a kick "A" team in action, when in after a try for the final score. reality he was witnessing the The last game of the day saw superb play of the Irish "B" the ND "C" team narrowly squad. The "piggies" man­defeat ISU 8-3. Tenacious handled ISU and walked away defense on the part of both with a 21-0 shutout. teams made it impossible for 
Excellent running by fly-half either team to score in the first Tim Neis led the Irish backs half. The second half looked through ISU' s defense. ND bleak for the Irish ruggers after jumped off to an early lead with an early ISU field goal put ND a field goal by Kevin Elpers and behind 3-0. In the waning four pomts trys by Joe Gill and moments of the game, how­Andy Ortyn, giving the Irish an ever, Curt Rood pounded his 11-0 halftime lead. way fifty yards down the side-
The Irish definitely did not sit [Cont£nued on page 19] 

by Mark Perry But Piane thinks this will Sports Editor help them at Drake. "The guys realize they didn't put in their One of the top track meets of best effort in Kansas,'' he said, the outdoor season, the Drake "and this should motivate them Relays, is being held this to try and do better at Drake." weekend, and Notre Dame will Other relays teams compet­be well represented at the ing in the four mile (Dennis meet. Fourteen Irish runners Van_derKra.ats, Tony Matherly, will be competing, "The most Chns ~atug, and Joe Stroh­we have taken in years,''•m~n), dtstance medley (Burger, 

according to Irish track Coach J oe Pian e. 
Notre Dame has four relay teams entered and the team with the best shot at winning is the two mile relay team. Pete Burger, Jim Slattery, Chuck Aragon, and Jay Miranda had a disappointing finish at the Kan· sas Relays, as they took fourth in an attempt to defend the crown they won last year. 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL--P.F. and the Flyers vs. Pope John Paul I Pope of the Month Club, 6:20 p.m., Bookst'" Court 9 BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL--Later W.E.B. vs. Chumps, 6:20p.m., Bookstore Court 10 BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL--Butchers vs. Dags, 7 p.m., 
Bookstore Court 10 BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL--Strappamasquon and his Combat Wombats vs. Larry's Laundrymen, 7 p.m., Bookstore Court 9 
saturday 

LACROSSE--Notre Dame vs. Ashland College, 12 noon, Stepan Fields SOCCER--Notre Dame vs. Valparaiso, 2 p.m., Cartier Field 
FLAG FOOTBALL--Badin vs. Regina, 2:30 p.m., Stepan I i 
TENNIS--Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, 3 p.m. BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL--semifinal games, 4:30 and 
r 
5: 30·, Bookstore Courts. sunday TENNIS--Notre Dame vs. Western Michigan, 11 a.m. 
WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL--Finals, 11 a.m.~ behind the ACC · MEDIA BASKETBALL--Observer sports staff vs. WSND 
sports staff, 12 noon, behind the AC<; SLAM DUNK COMPETITION--1:~0 p.m,,. behind the ACC BOOKSTORE BASKETBAll-"Finals, 2:00p.m., behind the 
_Ace,.. -:~'·· ·'" ..... 
t···:. \,;-::;• .. .,..\1
;. 'J 

);·~;;*>-..... :_~\:~~~·:s:~:~~-/VP1!:~\?\ 
.. '·t~. 

·:'-•-. . ··. 
back on their lead.in the second half. Led by the intimidating 
SJX>rts schedule for An Tostal 
play of hard-nosed Tommy Olson and the experience of fridayfield general Herby Gloss, the WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL--Any Old ThingND "B" side added another 10 vs. Splinters, 4 p.m., Bookstore Courts points to their lead. Joe O'Dea . 
WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL--Notre Darners vs. Bucket Brigade, 4:45, Bookstore Courts 
Mtranda, Matherly and Ara­gon), and shuttle hurdle (Dave Bernards, Arnie Gough, John McCloughan and Tim Tward­zil). 
"All of our relay teams have a .cha~~e . to take a glace at Drake, Ptane added, and the shuttle hurdle team could sur­prise a. lot of p~ople with a really htgh place. 
[Continued on page 19] 
Rangers upset Islanders 4-1 
·~·.' ..... ~ r •. 
.... · '\. '• 





