... Gay lifestyle -page 6 

/
VOL XIII. NO. 106 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 1979 
Reid discusses vending 
of non-food item.s 
by Atleen Lavin StaffReporter 
.John Reid, director of Student Activities, mer with HPC last n1ght at Pangbor~ to discuss the selling of certain non· r t:l products as a serv1ce to students at Food Sales. 
Reid began by defining Food Sales as ''an exception to any mc:rchandising deal on campu!> bet:ause it does not require an application. It's the selling of food and non-alcoholic beverages." 
After a report done on food sales by The Observer, Reid became aware that certain dorms were selling such prod· ucts as magazines and toiletries and sent a letter to the rectors explaining that this was against the merchandising policy of the University. Food Sales can only sell products other than food and non-alcoholic beverages by submiuin~ an application for approval 'through the normal channels," Reid said. · 
'To ~<ly yes to anything 

other than non -alcoholic beverages and food was to say yes to anything' 
Flanner Hall went through these channels to try and get permission to sell magazines but was turned down. 
"My rationale largely was that to say yes to anything other than non-alcoholic beveral!es 
and fooJ was to say yes to 
anything," explained Reid re­
garding Student Activities' res­
ponse to the Flanner request. 
Reid was worried that allow­
ing Food Sales to expand its 
product line might result in a 
''mini grocery store.'' 
Reid was questioned as to whether one of the problems with such an expansion was the possible competition it would cause for the Huddle and the Bookstore. 
''This question would have to be asked, but it is not what I have been concerned about,'' replied Reid. If a Food Sales wanted to sell any product already sold by either of these operations they would have to get their approval, according to Reid. 
There will be a meet:ng for all Food Sales managers at 7 
p.m. this Thursday in the Flanner pit to discuss the problem further. 

Reid also announced a Leadership Workshop spon­sored by Student Acttvities to be held on Sunday, April 8 from 3 to 5 p.m. in the Hayes Healy Auditorium and followed by a dinner in the Faculty Dining Hall. The Workshop is de­signed "to help new people ~et to know each other'' accordmg to Reid. 


·For next year 
Roche adds positions to cabinet 
Dan Letcher Senior StaffReporter 
Student Body President-elect Bill Roche stated yesterday that three positions would be added to his cabinet next year in order to ''make the cabinet more workable. " 




OPEC announces price hike, authorizes addition ofsurcharges 
GENEVA, Switzerland (AP) -The Organiza­tion of Petroleum Exporting, Countries raised crude oil prices by 9 percent yesterday to $14.54 a barrel and authorized members to tack on any surchar,ges they think the market will bear. 
The mcrease, taking effect Sunday, should raise American retail gasoline prices by about two cents a gallon and increase the Amencan bill for foreign oil by at least $4 billion over last year's total of $43 billion. Surcharges could pushthe bill higher, analysts say. 
In Washington, Sen. Hen~y M. Jackson, D-Wash., chairman of the Senate Energy Committee, c~lled the increase "greed"aqd a punitive docnme" and said it is "bad news -for Western institutions.'' 
State Department spokesman Hodding Carter callt"d It "untimely and unjustified" and said it po!nts up rhe need for strict conservation measures. 
Algeria, Venezuela and Libya immediately said their countries would add surcharges to the basic rate and oil ministers here predicted other members of the 13-nation cartel would do likewise. 
The base increase alone is expected to enrich OPEC nations by an additional $13.5 billion this year, analysts here say. 
OPEC President Saeed AI Utaiba of the United Arab Emirates said the next OPEC meeting, scheduled here in June, could decide on yet another hike. 
He said the UAE, Saudi Arabia and other Arab "moderates" opposed the even stiffer increases proposed by some countries and would continue to do so in the future. He said Ecuador joined the fight to keep the increase low. 
Militant members such as Iraq, Iran and Libya lobbied hard for larger increases. Iran said it favored an increase of 29 percent in the base price. · 
Most OPEC members added a surcharge of about $1.20 a barrel, roughly the amount of yesterday's base price increase, onto the previous OPEC price of $13.35 when the revolution in Iran caused a shortage ofcrude on the world market. 
The earlier surcharges were approved by OPEC as a response to what the cartel saw as profiteering by oil companies getting upwards of $20 a barrel on the short-term, or ''spot'' market because of the temporary loss of Iranian production. 
Yesterday, Algeria announced an increase of "about $4" per 42-ga1lon barrel over the base price, upping the price of Algerian crude by a total of more than 30 percent. Venezuela announced a surcharge of $1.20, and Libya said it would raise prices by $1.66. 
The effect of the surcharvel'; on American 
(Continued on page 7] 
The three new coordinators will 
be part of a ''group which can 
help me formulate policy," 
Roche said. 
The Ombudsman director, off­
campus commissioner and pub­
licity director, along with Bill 
Vita, Student-Body Vice-Pres­
ident-elect, will round out 
policy making group. 
"Right now there is no effec­
tive way for any cabinet mem­
ber to have a voice in policy,'' 
Roche noted. The new coor­
dinators will work closely on 
policy with Roche but will also 
hel_p coordinate other cabinet 
duttes. 
Roche stated that one ofthe 

new coordinators would be ·responsible for housing, secur­ity, and academics; a second will deal with social life, social concerns, inter-racial problems, 
and coeducation; while a third position will be concerned with communication with alumni groups, board of trustees, board of commissionsers, CLC, and HPC. 
Each of the 2 cabinet members will deal in some way with one of these coordinators according 
to  Roche.  He  hopes ·  that  
"important  discussion  and  
interaction  will  take  place  

among group members'' and any new ideas will eventu~lly find their way to Roche during policy making meetings. 
Roche sees this new structure as helping his administration get away from three people formulating the entire student government policy while the 22 other cabinet members perform little jobs or act as go-fors. 
[Continued on page 9] 

Sadat, Begin meet Congress 
W ASHIN'GTON (AP) -Egyp­tian President Anwar Sadat told Congress yesterday that Israel should be pursuaded to solve the lingering problem of Pales­tinian Arabs. Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin ple~ged to resolve the Palestin­Ian ISSUe. 
Both Sadat and Begin met with mer·1bers of Congress in an effort to build support for the 
U.S. aid provisions of the treaty they signed in a White House ceremony Monday. 
But both addressed the long­standing problem of what to do about the Palestinians, a point ofcontention that has separated Israel from its Arab neighbors for a generation. 
Sadat, in a meeting with members of the House of Representatives, did not repeat his long-stated position that the Palestinians should have .a state of their own. 
But he left no doubt that his goal for the Palestinians differs widely from that of Begin. 
Both leaders are clearly com­peting for thr-support of Presi­dent Carter, who has urged the Palestinians to join talks between Egypt and Israel, scheduled to be$in in about six weeks. Sadat sa1ti the talks will 
[Continued on page 3] 



News in brief 
Army destroys landmines containing nerve agent 
DUGWAY PROVING GROUND, Utah (AP)--The Army blew up 26 landmines believed to contain a .liquid nerve agent on an isolated part of this desert testing post yesterday and the base commander declared: "There was no widespread contamination." Gov. Scott Matheson, who expressed anger on learning of the plans last week, said through a spokesman thar he was glad the destruction of the canisters went without incident -and he was glad it was over. The operation involved destroying mines found in ] anuary by an Army oatrol. The mines, which had evidently been discarded and torgotten during a period of open-air testing in 1963, were now deteriorating. Their destruction was twice delayed by tricky winds before it finally was accomplished yesterday. 
Stolen military missile 
seriously injures teen 
TRAFALGAR, INd. (AP)--Five young souvenir hunters had to walk two miles and dumb four fences to take several anti-tank rockets from a restricted firing area at a southern Indiana army base, officials said. One of the rockets exploded Saturday in a private garage, seriously injuring a 16-year-old boy. Authorities now are searching for other milttary missiles that might have been taken from the area. 

Huey Newton standstrial formurdercharges 
0AKLAND Calif. (AP)--Black Panther Leader Huey Newton 
was ordered yesterday to stand trial a second time on charges 
·>f k.illin_g an Oakland prostitute five years ago. The first tr.ial 
ended m a mistrial Saturday. Alamadea County Supenor 
Court] udge]ohn Cooper set a tentative trial date of May 7. 
He also ordered a hearing April 17 on defense motions to 
have the charges dropped. Minutes earlier, in a separate 
courtroom, Newton was sentenced to five days in jail for 
refusing to answer questions at his first trial about his flight 
i:O Cuba shortly after Kathleen Smith, 17, was shot on Aug. 6, 1974 on an Oakland street corner. 

Weather 

Becoming cloudy today, chance of some light rain by late afternoon. Highs near 50. Periods of rain likely tonight. Lows iii the low 40s. Pardy sunny tomorrow. Chance of late afternoon thunderstorms. Highs in the mid to upper 50s. 

Camn::::::::::us====~ 
12:15 
pm -SEMINAR, "drug-induced enhancement of hepatic neoplasia," dr. carl peraino, GALVIN AUD. 

12:15 
pm . TENNIS, nd men vs .•nichigan 


2:.'0 pm . SEMINAR, "stability & flutter of oscillating airfoils in cascade," dr. terrence akai, nd, 303 ENGR. BWG. 
4:20 pm . COLLOQUIUM, "the new particles," prof. don Iichtenberg, indiana u., 118 NIEUWLAND 5:15pm. FASTER'S MASS, WALSH CHAPEL 6:30pm-MEETING, sailing club, 204 O'SHAG 
7 pm-MASS, during lent, STANFORD HALL 7 pm. LECTURE, ''is there a new american foreign policy?" hans morgenthau, LIB. AUD. 
7 pm . LECTURE, ''foreign (migrant) workers in europe: some legal problems in a social context,'' prof. tugral ansay, 
u. of ankara, turkey, 105 LAW SCHOOL 
7 pm -TALK, provost timothy o'meara, ST. ED'S GAMEROOM 7 & 11 pm -FILM, "something beautiful for god," 
HAYES-HEALY, RM. 122 7:30pm-CONCERT, "boston," ACC.,.. 
7:30 pm -FILM* "Ia strada," A/V THEATRE C.C.E. 
7:30pm-SENIOR ARTS FESTIVAL, photography opening, ISIS GALLERY 8:30pm-DISCUSSION* edy kaufman member of amnesty 
international, GRACE BASEMENT 9 pm -SENIOR ARTS FESTIVAL, four short plays, THE NAZZ 11 pm -SENIOR ARTS FESTIVAL, music at THE NAZZ 
"Alternatives to Nuclear War" will be the topic of a seminar ~o be held Saturday at 9 a.m. m the Hayes-Healy auditorium. The program is bc:ing co-spon­sored by the Untted Nauons Association of St. Joseph Coun­ry and the United Religious Community, under the auspices of the Indiana Council of Churches. 
Speakers at the seminar in­clude: Dr. Charles H. Winslow, professor of political science at Indiana University-Purdue University, Indianapolis; Dr. 
• • .South 

[Continued from page >'J 
1 he .South Shore has spon­sored trips for Notre Dame students and other South Bend residents to jazz concerts, Shakespearean plays, and base­ball games in additon to trips to the Indiana Dunes NatiOnal Lakeshore. 
It also provides easy access for Notre Dame students on any day of the week to sporting events and museums in Chi­cago. Commuters from north­west Indiana regularly use the South Shore to get to their jobs in Chicago. 
Erratum 
In yesterday's edition, The Observer mistakenly reported that the ] oe Camarada benefit held at Lee's Grill and Bache­que last month netted $100 for Camarada's medical expenses. the actual figure shoud have been $1000. The Observer regrets this error. 


&.!~~,~~~;r:.~:..l
Asst. Night Editor: Patsy 

Campbell  
CoP.y Readers:  Tim joyce,  
Mz'ke Onufrak  
Layout Staff:  Ann  Mona­ 
ghan  

Editorial Layout: Ann Gales, Greg Hedges Sports Layout: Mark Perry, Mr. Bill Typists: Tricia Meehan, Nancy Morris, Betsy Masana, Katie Brehl Night Controller: Mardi Day Editor: Keith Melar­agno Ad Layout: Flo 0 'Connell, Dave Wood Photographer: Mark Muench 
The Observer (USPS 598 920] is published Monday through Friday ex· cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Oame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year [$10 per semesterjlrom The Observer. P.O. box 
0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame. In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights art reserved. 
Wednesday, March 28, 1979-page 2 

Seminar speakers to commentate on 'Alternatives to Nuclear War' 
Barry Schnieder, of the US Arms Control and Disarament Agency, Washington, D.C.; and Rev. George Hunsinger, theolosian in Residence at the Rivers1de Church Disarmament Project, New York. 
Resource commentator for the program is Michael]. Francis, Director of the Institute for International Studies at Notre_ Dame. Th: program chairm.n is Rev. Lester H. Bill, president 

of the lo<.:al United Nations Association. 
A noon lunch will be held at the Morris Inn, followed by the closing session from 1·2 p.m. Tickets for the seminar and lunch are $6.00 and may be purchased from Donald Utter­back, 234·8384 or the URC office, 282-2397. Deadline for reservations is today. Tickets for the seminar are only $3.00 anQ. are available at the door. 
******************************** 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES: 
********************************* 
Anyone interested in being a part of next 
years Junior Advisory Council is urged to sign up this wet·k in Student Activities 
******************************** 
All other information can be obtained at Student Activities Office or caU Tom 1138. 
Oon't 8€ a foot. .. GRas a Oat€ an0com€to 


smc]untoR Class 

S€mJ-~ORmal 

on apRil foots Oay Sttnb~v apRJll st at CinnaBaRs-7-12 $16per couple includes *Open Bar (a11 n1oht) *year membership *munchies ... danciu~ ,1....~ .. ctc.
" 



ticket sales ... 
U 
_Thurs-8-9pm -Lemanslobby 
ri-Sat-dining hall -(dinner hours) J 
..oh ye.ah, 21 I.O.'s n€€0€0!)~ 



Now tentingfor summer &fall Special Low Summer Rates: 
1 bedroom-S200 
2 bedroom-S240 
Central air & heated pool 
Fall reservations should be made now! Only one second floor left ... more on first. 
Call Gayle for new rates 272-1441 


;The Place to be Off-Campus' 



The Observer Wednesday, March 28, 1979 -page 3 
[Continued from page 1] 
be a test of Israel's good faith and that success is in the best interests of the United States. 
"You can use your influence to moderate the postion of the Israelis," Sadat said. 
Be~in has flatly ruled out the creauon of a Palestinian state in proposing a limited form of autonomy for the 1.1 million Palestinian Arabs living in the West Bank and Gaza. 
In a meetin~ with members of the Senate, Begin pledged that Israel will solve its problem with the Palestinians in a manner that will retain Israel's rights to protect its own secur­ity. "Security," he said,"meaps life itself to the .Jewish nadon. '' 
"I have an appeal to make to you," Begin told the senators. 
"Don't doubt us. Don't doubt our intentions. Don't doubt our resolve to live in peace with all our neighbors." 
And, he added: ''We want to solve in a humane way the problem of the Palestinian Arabs." 
Both Begin and Sadat urged Consress to look favorably on conunued U.S. aid promised as part of their treaty of peace. Congress wil b.e . asked to authorize a $4.5 btlhon package of grants and loans for Israel and Egypt. 
Meanwhile, Defense Secre­tary Harold Brown made public letters of agreement providing rhe aid package to the two countries. 
The letters confirmed pre­vious official and unofficial re­ports of the_ arrangement under which Israel will get $3 billion and Egypt $1. 5 billion. Defense officials have said the larger amount to Israel is attributable to the expense of withdrawing forces from the Sinai and for construction of two airbases to replace bases being turned over the Egypt in the withdrawal agreement. 
·'The American taxpayer will . be asked to provide $800 mil­lion," Brown said. That is the 


Three Saint Mary's juniors receive nominations for internships 

by Mary Beth Connor 
Three Saint Mary's juniors have been nominated by their major departments for the 1979 
Federal Program.  Summer Intern  
Martha major in  Estrada, a double Government and  

Spanish, and Karen Duncan, and Education major from Utica, MI have been nominated for positons with the Office of the Secretary of Transportation in Washington, D.C. Elizabeth Rooney, also an education major, has been nominated for a job with the Department of Agriculture. Rooney if from Riverside, IL. 
Each year, the program selects a small number of outstanding undergraduate and graduate students nominated by their colleges, for summer intern!;>hip positions with vari­ous government agencies. 
The program relates the internshtps to administrative, professional, or technical career 
, , , Sadat, Begin 
amount ot an outright grant to 
Israel. The rest of the money 
will be provided as loans, 
repayable over a 30-year 
period. 
Begin, referring to his coun­try as the only stable democracy in the Middle East, warned of growing Soviet influence and said the Russians are using proxy wars to endanger liberty around the world. 
He said recent fighting between U.S.-backed North Ye­men and Marxist South Yemen was a Soviet-engineered test of Western will. 
At least twice Begin used the phrase ''liberty is m danger.'' And he said that in the past two years the Soviet Union "t()ok over by proxy'' Vietnam, Cam­bodia, South Yemen, Afghanis­tan, Ethiopia and Mozambique. 
''Now we must say that the deterrent the great powers have is, under the circumstance~ absolutely necessary," he said, adding:"SaudiArabia and all its oil "can also become a victim." 
Sadat, in his appeal for.U.S. aid, said the United States must help Egypt guard the Middle East and Africa against ''foreign interests and mili­tary adventures." 


He added: ''Much has been said about the United States paying the price of Peace. We do view the matter in these terms. Peace is too precious to be an object of bargaining. 
Monday night, both Begin . 
· and Sadat proposed that Presi­dent Carter receive the Nobel Peace Prize. 
The Israeli prime minister broached the Nobel prize idea at a gala dinner in a tent set up behind the White House Monday night. The Egyptian president rose quickly to sup­port the idea. 
Nine hours earlier, they had signed a treaty ending 30 years of hostility between their two nations, a treaty nurtured by President Carter. 
Responding to the sug~es­tion, Carter, at least parttally serious, declared: 
"If the next nine months of negotiations (on implementing the treaty) are completely har­monious, ... then I might consider accepting their nomin­ation. But otherwise, they've made their toasts in vain." 

Notre Dame will replace Nestle dispensers 
by Tom Hay 
Hot chocolate and iced tea, removed from the dining halls as part of the Nestle boycott, 
will be replaced as soon as proper substitutes are found according to Robert Robinson, Food Service director. 
The main difficulty with the substitution effort thus far lies in the dispensing equipment. 
''We are looking for other brands," said Robinson, "bur we want to avoid the capital investment in new machines if we can." He pointed out that the present dispensers are set for Nestle's products only and will not convert easily to other brands~ 
Robinson said that he was testing new brands in the ma­chines, but that there were some delays. Texture, moist­ness, and flavor strength of the different products were cited by Robinson as problem areas. 
"It's not a complex problem," 
University of Illinois at Chicago Circle 
College of Business Administration 
will be 







ON CAMPUS 
April4, 1979 
To discuss graduate study in business with interested students 
Consutt your placement office 
Admlnlattatlona 8ulldlng 
{' Room213 
he said, ''but when each ma­chine is used about 1,000 times 
a day, we want it adjusted right." 
"We 2.re trying to make it happen as soon as possible,'' he added. 
The boycott of Nestle products in the dining halls is scheduled to last one year. 


Council holds zntervzew 
Any sophomore interested in being on next rear.s Junior Advisory Counci is urged to sign up th~s week in the Student 
Activities  office  on  the  first  
floor of LaFortune.  
Interviews will be held  next  

week from Monday to Wednes­day and voting in each hall will be held the following week from Monday to Wednesday. If you have any questions, please call Tom at 1138. 
tields for which a college degree is the usufll means of qualifying at the entrance level. Nominees are required to have completed 60 semester hours, be m the upper one-third of 
their class, and have demon­strated leadership ability. 
The three nominees wtll be notified as to whether they have received the internships in the near future. 
The Observer Wednesday, Marth 28, 1979 -page 4 

Senate to vote on South Shore funding) 
by]oe Slovinic 
StaffReporter 

The Indiana Senate will vote this week on Senate Bill 1192 which would provide an operat­ing subsidy that the South Shore Railroad desperately needs to keep its service in existence. Senate Bill 1192 is scheduled for a third and final reading today. 
The South Shore Railroad is one of the most frequently used means of transportation for Notre Dame students traveling back and forth from Chicago to South Bend at a round trip fare of$6.10. 
The Indiana House of Repre­sentatives passed a bill to provtde an operating subsidy of over $1 million per year to the South Shore by a margin of 82 to 9 on February 22. The subsiJy would come from an already existing property tax on rail cars which ts now deposited in the general revenue fund. 
The subsidy would go from a special commuter railroad fund to the Northern Indiana Com­muter District responsible for operating the South Shore Rail­road Passenger Service. Gover­nor Otis Bown has indicated that he will sign Senate Bill 1192 into law if the Senate passes it. 
A $31,000,000 grant from the 
U.S. Department ofTransJ?.Orta­tion to the South Shore Railroad for new passenger cars is contingent on the passage of Senat Bill1192. ·This grant only goes to railroads with operating subsidies. 
''Without this bill, the South Shore will probably cease to operate by the end of this year,'' the South Shore Rider News told commuters. 
The South Shore Railroad encourages Notre Dame stu­dents and other South Shore passengers to contact the two 
Buy CIQssifieds ftom 
The Observer 
State Senators from St. ] oseph' s County, Senator Douglas Hunt (D«::m.) and Sena­tor Daniel Maniop (Rep.). 
All the Senators may be reached at a toll-free number (800-382-9491) or by mail at the Senate Post Office, Indiana­polis, Indiana 46204. 
Notre Dame students who are residents of LaPorte County, Indiana, are encouraged to contact Senator Robert Garton (Rep.), the majority caucus chatrman, and Senator Louis Mahern. Notre Dame students who live in Porter County, Indiana, should contact Senator ] ohn Larson. 
All the Lake.County, Indiana, senators are supporting Senate Bill 1192, including the two sponsors from Lake County, Senate President Pro Tempore Martin Edwards and Senate Budget Committee Chairman John Mutz. 
All students should contact Senate Majority Floor Leader John Guy and Senate Minority Floor Leader Frank O'Bannon. 
South Shore passenger Tim Koch, a junior from Dillon Hall, explained the benefits of the South Shore Railroad as he said, ''I ride it about twice a month. Every time I come back from Chicago on Sunday night, there are at least 20 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents. I've seen over 50 students coming back from break." 
Koch added the South Shore 
is the ''cheapest transportation 
to Chicago, even mcluding 
driving when you take into 
account gasoline and tolls.'' 
The 50-year-old South Shore passenger cars had frequent problems operating in the servere weather of the past winter. As a result, service has been cut from three trains a day to one train a day from Chicago to South Bend. The South Shore needs the subsidy to offset the huge losses of opera­ting its passenger service. 
South Shore passenger ] ack Brankin said, "I would recom­mend it as a viable means of transportation to Chicago that many , , people don't know about. [C . d
onttnue on page 21 


... Alcoholism 
[Continued from page 9] 
televison and radio. 
SWEDEN: Parliament decided in 1976 to lower the voting age from 20 to 18 but kept the age at which young­
sters can buy hard liquor, wine and strong beer a• 20. The state liquor nonopoly runs a 
wide-spread public:t/ campaign warning of the dangers of drink. Stockholm schoolchil­dren interviewed in a poll this 
month said they had no diffi­culty getting older persons to 





Miller Time·: 

buy them drink and the poll showed nine out of ten 15-year­olds drank regularly. WEST GERMANY: It is illegal to sell alcohol to those 
under 18 and those between 16 and 18 can be served drink in bars and restaurants only when with an adult, but the laws arc:; 
widely disobeyed. A TV and press campaign to reduce the 
social presttge youngsters attach to alcohol has been running since 1975. The fede­
ral government allocated $1.8 million last year for the treat­ment of young alcohol and drug abusers. 
Prof. lunch program becotnespertnanent 
Because of a successful trial 

period and strong student sup­
port during the first semester, 
the ''Have Lunch With a Prof'' 
program will continue on a 
permanent basis. 
Under the program, 25 free guest passes are made avail­able each week so that students can take professors to lunch at either the North or South dining . halls. 
So far, ·approximately 100 professorshave taken part in the program. . 
Ttckets are avilable in the student goye_Enment offices, on the secund tloor of LaFortune, but are good only for the dates of the week stamped on them. 
Off-campus students may a:l­so take part in the program. Two 0-C students each week may receive guest passes for their own use as well as the professor's. If the 0-C students are paying for their own ticket, however, anyone may receive a free ticket for the guest profes­sor. 
For further information, con­tact Mike Flynn, program chair­man, at 1678, or Bruce Boivin, ND co-ex commissioner, at 1881 or 7668. 
Positions available for next year's 
Hunger Coalition 
(coordinator, secretary, treasurer, etc.) 
Call 8743 or 288-3831 today for information. 
The Observer Wednesday, March 28, 1979 -page 5 
For Mardi Gras fund 

WASHINGTON (AP) . The Supreme Court ruled yesterday that police officers may not stop motorists' automobiles at ran­dom to check drivers' licenses and car registration. 
The justices said random stops of motorists who are not sus­pected of breaking any law violate the Constitutions's pro­tection from unreasonable search and seizure. 
The 8-1 decision struck down a Delaware law that had given individual police officers broad discretion to choosing cars for the routine checks. Many states allow similar police prac­tices, which will now have to be 
chan~ed. 
' An individual operating or traveling in an automobile does not lose all expectation of privacy simply because the au­tomobile and 1ts use are subject to gevernment regulation,'' Justice Byron R. White wrote for the majority. 
White stressed, however, that the ruling does not bar Dela­ware and other states from "developing methods for spot checks that involve less intru­sion or that do not involve un­constrained exercise of dis­cretion. 
White suggested that ques­tioning all oncoming traffic at roadblock-type stops could be an alternative. Two other justices, in a concurring opin­ion suggested that police could make "not purely random stops such as every lOth car to pass a given point." 
The sole dissenter was the court's other leading conser-
Senior Bar 
opens 'Irish Pub'. 
Guiness and Harp beer will highlight the opemnl$ of the newly redecorated "Insh Pub" tonight at 9 p.m. at the Senior Bar. 
The basement of the bar now plays Irish music and offes backgammon boards. 
Reid lists group criteria 
byjames M&Conne/1 of prompt response, citing that The jobs are usually unskilled the Afril 1~ deadline for recei)?t -in factories, departmentJohn Reid, director of 5tudent of al funding applications 1s stores, hotels, etc. Salaries are Activities, said yesterday he only slightly more than two low, but students generally urges anv student who is aware weeks away. earn enough to /ay for their of acharitable· organization that Three types of charities are room and boar while they may be eligible to receive eligible for funding : on work. A typical job would be funding from Mardi Gras pro­campus 10rganization~ groups that of chambermaid in a hotel ceeds to contact him immedi­situated in the greater South in London's West End. But last ately. Bend area; and any organiza­summer an enterprising stu­
Reid stressed the importance tion world-wide, that provides dent found work as an appren­what Reid termed "a direct tice jockey for one of Ireland's people service." racing stables. 
Thosegroupsthat fall into the To qualify for CIEE's pro­
NWS predicts third category are the ones gram, students must be be­most in need of student input. tween the ages of 18 and 30 and Once Reid has been made must be able to prove their
good and bad 
aware of a potentially eligible student status. To work in charity's existence, he will for­France, they must be able to
weather 
ward them an a_Pplication im­speak and understand French. mediately. In thJs way, worthy For more information and 
The National Weather Service organizations that would have application forms, contact has some good news and some been unaware of the potential Ctee, Dept. PR-WA, 777 United bad news for the South Bend fo~ assistl;lnce might still re­Nations Plaza, New York, New area for the next 2 weeks. cetve momes. York 10017; or 236 North Santa 
The good news is that it is Those knowing of organiza­Cruz #314, Los Gatos, Califor­going to get warmer. Tem­tions which may be eligible for nia 95030. peratures next week should be Mardi Gras monies, are asked Hundreds of U.S. students will 
way above normal, possibly in to contact Reid in the Student find jobs in France, Ireland the upper 60's or low 70's. But activities office on the first floor 
Great Britain and New Zealand 
the bad news is that it will of LaFortune or by calling 7308. this summer through the Work probably rain. Nextoveek' s pre­Participants must find their Abroad program sponsored bycipitation will also be above own jobs but will have the help the council International 
vative, Justice William H. 
Rehnquist. 
Noting th~t the court is willing to allow poltce·.o stop groups of motorists but not a sm~le car at random, Rehnquist satd, "The court thus elevates the adage 'misery loves company' to a novel role in Fourth Amend­ment jurisprudence.'' 
The Delaware police case stemmed from a 1976 stop which led to an arrest for man­juana possession. 
The criminal defendant suc­cessfully barred .Police from in­troducing the setzed marijuana as eveidence at his trial when state courts ruled that the drug was seized during an uncon­stitutional detention. 
In separate decisions yesterday the court also: declined to decide, in what could have been a critically important race-rela­tions case from Los Angeles, whether persons who sue under an 1866 civil ri~hts law have to prove "discrimtnatory intent." That proof is necessary for bias suits based on the Constitution. 
By a 5-4 vote, the justices ruled that the case involving hiring practices by the Los An~eles County Ftre Department ts no longer a live controversy. The court's action leaves intact a court-ordered racial quota system requiring the recruiting of one black and one Hispanic for every three whites recruit­ed. 
normal. 
As for the rest of this week, WNDU-TV weatherman Dick Addis deemed it 'stinko.' He said that the present cooling trend will continue until the weekend, with the added threat of rain or even snow. 
If it is any consolation, Florida has also been hit by a cold spell. Ft. Lauderdale posted a high of ony 68 degrees yesterday. 
Cheerleaders 
to hold tryout clinics 
The tryout schedule for male and female cheerleaders has been announced. The first clinic will be held Tuesday, Apr. 3 from 7:30 to 10:30 p.m. in the ACC pit. The first cut session is Wednesday, Apr. 4 from 6 to 11 p.m. 
Interviews for remaining can­didates will be held Thursday, Apr. 5 between 2:30 and 5:30 and the second clinic will be held that same day from 7:30 to 
10:30 p.m. 
The final cut session will be held on Friday, Apr. 6 between 6 and 11 p.m. 
The public is invited to all of the sessions. Students interest­ed in trying out can sign up at the Student Activites office or by calling Amy Oijn at 8132 or Steve Muething at 3301. 
FRIDAY 

TICkets on sole now of AND 
· Vegetable Buddies 
SATURDAY 
·R•ve~City. Records 
U. 31 North end 

MARCH 30-31 Be levd le Plaza ·Just or The Record ·Boog•e Records 
) ·Suspended Chord Elkhart 

~blltldla. 
129 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET . ON RIVER BEND PLAZA DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 

of cooperatins student travel organizations 10 each country. In France they may work during the summer; in Great Britain they may work at any time of theyear for up to six months; in Ireland they may work at any time of the year for up to four months; in New Zealand theY. may work for up to six months if they arrive between May 1 and October 31. 
on Educational Exchange (CIEE). For the past 10 years, thts popular program has provided students with the direct experi­ence of living and working in another country and, at the same time, helped them reduce the cost of their trip. The Work '(\broad program vtrtually dim­mates the red tape that stu· dents faced in the past when they wanted to work overseas. 

and special guest Seats 
Sammy $8.50 
$7.50
Hagar 


Editorials Wednesday, March 28, 1979 -page 6 
In opposition to deficit spending 
Editor's Note: The following column was submitted before break, but was not printed due to space limitations. The author, a first year law student, refers to.Greg Hedges' column, "On behalf of national debt," which appeared in the March 8 edition ofThe Observer. 
The March 8 article on behalf 
of the national debt appears 
somewhat reminiscent of 
Swift's "Modest Proposal"-­
except maybe that Swift under­
stood the role of economics and 
justice in our society. To 
appreciate the Hedges article 
one must stand back far enough 
to put it in perspective, say 
around objecttve reality, and 
read it in the same light as the 
"Modest Proposal." 
Hedges' sense of justice is equalled only by his penetrat­ing insi~ht. He flaunts an extraordmary capacity for de­tail by reminding us that future generations inherit the gov­ernment bonds as well as the debt. ] ust who inherits the depressed bonds (with inter­est), and who pays for the bonds (a Ia taxes) ts unimpor­tant, since distributive justice plays no role in his scheme of things. ­
Hedges' definition of bank­ruptcy would make Abe Beam proud, along with that clutch of New York City mayors and comptrollers who manage each year to proffer a balanced budget (as the state constitu­tion requires) while simultane­ously accumlating a $14 billion debt. But not to worry says Hedges, ''The federal govern­ment has the eternal power, ,to create money ... and to tax. "Consequently, the issue of bankruptcy is not relevant to the case of federal government debt." After all, says Hedges, ''The debt exists to stimulate the economy, to insure growth and to curb unemployment.'' 
The more mature Selvaggio vir::w (appearing in the Monday, March 12, 1979 issue), points to Hedges' shortcomings but still falls dangerously short of objec­tive reality. Selvaggio ad­vances the notion that most of ND/SMC is predominantly up­per middle class and that they are the hardest hit by the national debt. The Selvaggio view is dealing with the issue bt;.t not very objectively. 
In reality the national debt is both the government's and big business's ·incentive for infla­tion -it tends to stimulate the economy for those well off, insures growth for those who :an afford to invest large sums, 1nd keeps those in power in Jower. 
National debt actually tends .o curb growth and spur unem­>loyment. Whenever the cost >f employing a worker goes up 
i.e. minimum wage, taxes, ;ocial security con~ributions), 

the ability to hire that worker goes down. Thus, unemploy­ment for the poor and unskilled goes up while their selfworth and opportunity for self deter­minatton goes down. Not bad if you're middle class and need to feel that you're better than others, and not just different. It's no real coincidence that ] ohn Rawls talks of a need for a veil ofignorance when selecting the fairest means of distribution of goods and services. With the Hedges I Selvaggio assumed right to just desert one could expect the middle class, es­pecially the upper middle class 
(NDI SMC crowd) to be the maj'?r recipients of goods and servtces. 
Hedges concludes his trea­tise wtth one final word of wisdom, the ''convention should carefully balance the desirable employment results of the debt agamst the infla­tionary impact of financing it.'' He doesn't seem concerned with whose interest will reign in deciding this balance but in­stead seems to feel comfortable with whatever the technocrats should agree upon. AQd if the technocrats should somehow give birth to the idea that it is more rational to keep a certain group (i.e. the unemployed, poor, or minorities) unem­ployed in the name of effi­ciency, who then, will question them? Certainly not Mr. Hed­ges. 
And what will we do with the poor, depressed, and unskilled? 
What will we do with them when it becomes more rational to deny them self worth or self determination, than to let them be equals? Maybe we ought not take Swift's proposal so iightly. 
George Sam's 
Editorial policy 

The Observer welcomes com­ments from its readers. All letters must be typed, double space; the name, address and s1gnature of the author must be included. The Observer reserves the right to edit all material for grammar, length and libelous statements. 
administration of either institution.
_The Observer_ Editorial Board 
The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Features Editor ....... Chris Stewart represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ...... K. Connelly
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor . : ..Mike Lewis Business Manager ..... Steve Odland 1ewspaper published by students of able to all members of the community, News Editor ............ Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan ·:he Umversity of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News Editor .......... Mike Shields )aim Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is Saint Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ......Bob Rudy 'lecessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Sports Editor ...........Mark Perry Controller ........... John Tucker 
The Observer Wednesday, March 28, 1979 -page 7 
-11; , .... ..._· ........ 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's may have seen the last ofsnow for a while, but the campuses continue to be plagued by wet grounds-a major handicap to the many jogging fans. [Photo by Ron Szot) 

OPEC decision causes increase in retail gasoline prices by 9% 
NEW YORK (AP) -The decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to raise crude oil prices by 9 percent April 1 will mean a retail gasoline price increase of at least 2 cents a gallon by mid-May and will further com­plicate the fight ·against infla­tion, analysts said yesterday. 
U.S. consumer prices rose 9 percent last year, and jumped 
1. 2 percent between ] anuary and February alone. But the future impact of the latest OPEC move on the American economy is hard to gatlge because of the long distance between foreign oil pumps and 
U.S. industries and consumers. 
According to Leon Taub, an 
economist at the consulting firm of Chase Econometrics Inc., the April OPEC increase could raise American inflation .by 0.2 percent this year. If OPEC were to raise ~;>rices 5 percent in October, mflation would receive a 0.4 percent boost in 1979 and another 0.4 ·percent boost in 1980, he said. 
Analysts said the OPEC 
boost also will increase the U.S. 
bill for foreign oil by at least $4 
billion from 1978's $43 billion, 
possibly putting new pressure 
on the dollar on foreign ex­
change markets. 
But the analysts said the 
inport tally could go higher 
when producers' surcharges 
and possible additional OPEC increases are included. "This year, we're going to go over $50 billion by a significant 
margin," said Theodore K. Eck, chief economist at Stan­dard Oil C9mpany of Indiana. Taub, meanwhile, estimated that another OPEC increase and surcharges could raise the 1979 import bill to $50 billion to $53 billton. 
The latest producers' action sets the price of Arabian li~ht crude oil -the reference pomt for other grades of oil -at $14.54 a barrel, 708 percent above the base price for a 42-gallon barrel when OPEC was formed nearly 19 years ago. 
But OPEC also is allowing members to continue adding su~chages to. posted ceiling pnces, meanmg many cus­tomers may be paying substan­tially above "official" rates. 
The surcharges became wide-spread in the wake of a 69-day shutdown of petroleum production in Iran. 
The Iranian shutdown helped to turn last year's crude oil glut into a shortage, with oil-hungry consumers scramblins for shrinking supplies and b1dding up prices well above posted levels. 
The crude oil squeeze, along with a change in federal price rules allowing refiners to pass increasing processing costs to customers, has been felt at the gasoline pump in recent months. 
According to the Lundberg Letter, a newsletter that covers the industry, the average retail price of a gallon of regular ~asoline at a full-service station JUmped 3.68 cents between February and March to 73.25 cents. 
Most major oil companies have limited deliveries to dealers because of tight crude oil supplies. The latest to announce a cutback was Texaco Inc., which said yesterday that dealers next month will receive 85 percent of the gasoline they sold in April 1978. 
···OPEC 
[Continued from page 1) 
retail prices will depend on which countries impose sur­charges afl:d on what s~ze t~ey are. Amencan pump pnces nse about a cent a gallon for every 5 percent increase in the price of curde . 
The S14.54 price to take effect Sundax was not to have gone into effect until October under a four-step series of increases OPEC approved 10 December. 
When OPEC was founded in 1960, crude sold for $1.80 a barrel. Prices started rising sharpley in 1973, going from $2.59 at the first of that year to $11.46 a year later. 
Grand Opening S of RISH PUB~ E (in basement of bar) N I We will have 0 *GUINNESS R *HARP *IRISH COFFEE B SpeciaJs on all 3 ATONIGHT Wednesday, March 28 R  Thurs. through Sat. Circus Week at bar .­!...~ (1 t) 11'··~ ~ //·~,!. ·~ .. i ' ·\ ~~~--,-.-;. ~r , ~ . -$\.~ Thurs: giveawayof50 tickets (value $7 and $5) Fri: Specials for those with circus ticket stubs. Sat: Specials for those in circus costume Beer & mixed drinks half priced On-Thurs. there willbe a make-up man available to dress up lucky customers.  

-----·--· 

------------~-----­
The Observer Wednesday, March 28, 1979-page 8 
Apr. 2 
..... 
~ 
Hon/Tu~s. 
~ 
Tue~. 

PlacenaentBureau 

Equitable t.lh Assu.ran~e Society o! the U.S.
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
); 
X 
X 
X 

Huddle Spectacular 
Thursday, March 29 
Inthe Deli 
Life-Insuran~tlt 1 Group Insurance, lnv•stWients • All RIA. MIA, Law. For: Sales leMing. to !'1aMge~Mnt. Location: South Bend • Ind. Pl.'nn. Rll's. Visa rcquir•d· 
Campb•ll~ 
B 1n Lib. Al'te and Bus. AcL 
F'-'derat•d Investor• Inc. lrw~stments. B in Lib. Arts and Bus. Ad. For: Administrative positions. Location: Pittsburgh. Citizensh~p required. 
Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe RailwaY Tran5portation. B in CE, ME and 'EE. For: Engr. 
Aide and Engr. Asst. Location: MLdwest. Cit lz.li!nahif' required. 
Scott Paper co All BBA ror consumer .salt's repres~nt.ative. 
State Mutual of America (Rescheduled from Mar. 'd 1.n Ub. ATtl'l. 'Pons. Ad. and Engt. {ot Insurance Train... c. 
_Unlv«'.!.~~llinois at Chicago Circle Open to. all majors on undergraduate and graduate For: "liJ'lter of Administrative Science Program. 
Stellite :Hvi~ion-Cabot Corporation Caned led. 
North Amnican Car Corp L'i'BS'-' Raikars. Milt/\ for Hanagem~nt Trainee. 
BBA for Markding Rep and So.!lt.•l'> Tr:airu.:e. Location: Chlc.:1go, IL. Penn. Rt•s. Visa required. 
C:Jlifnrnia Drpartment of Tran'!££.rtat!on 
· Trnnl'>portat1on System. BM in cr.--For: Junior Civil tn~-tr .-Plannins;, Designing, Constru..::tion, Maintenance t"£ Tr:msportLJt inn System. Location: Throughout State pf C."JIIfurni;l, Perm. Res. Visa required. 
Hallmark Cards ~ng C.ud!i, Hom"" lJc.•L·oratlons, Pattywan and Gift Produ, t'i. RM in Art. Portfnllo should show abilit\' 
In: IIJwnr.ll,inn, Calli~roaph~· :mcl Hand Lt•nrrin~. . PO!l.K..t~o.· IJl•:-.IKIL, l.r.aphil' Ul.':-~i.~n, t:lt:'vcr and Humorous lllustratluu'anr.l Obj~ctivt• :md Realistic Fine Art Paint InA :md lJrawln,.;. WouJd like.· to sec a great deal 
~'{ c.o1nt. \.,,t·ation: Kamm~ C\tv, MO. ('I t I 7.t•n!-!h I p 1"\.'C'fU I n•tl, . 

Prw.kntlal lnl<>uranct• Co 
(;..,~,-ia-nC-:.:saT~.~~-:--~ Lib. Arts and Bus. Ad. ln.surann.• S.1l~·s -1.1fl•, HcalLh, Crour, Casualty, £JitOJt~· Plannlng. Soutlwrn >lnd Westt'rn Suburbs 
11 t·rm. k.-~. Vl~u n·quin•d. 
Pensions, of Chic.agc-. 
IJ) 
i!.t:o\l~T 
levels. 


~ ~E.!.h~·r ly-(: I.J.ti'_£~li..P..0.!....:t_~ P;,l'~·r Prndu,· t~. 1\M in Kf :md EE, Oesign o! CtUituml·r and Sl•rvln• rroduction t-:CJuipml'nt; To work 
In pru<.luctlun riidlitll.'s un d'•sign modification of l''luiprnt•nt fr~r Improve.•<.! pn•dut·tion, cost, safety, :tnd .1J I lt•t hnil·:ll prnhlt•m solving. Natlonwidt>. r,·nn. lh·s. Vl~a n•quin•d. 
Theaters hire guards 
Cityblames film for violence 
LOS ANGELES (AP) ''Boulevard Nights,'' another movie about brutal street gangs, has been blamed for violence that has left 10 persons injured in shootings and stab­bings and forced theaters to hire armed guards to protect their patrons. 
Though a box office hit, it also has sent some theater managers scurrying to lawyers to cancel contracts for the film. 
It all sounds like a rerun of the events surrounding the showing of another film of the 
same genre, "The Warriors," ''extraordinarily happy'' at the 
Dome board selects Dreyer as 1980 editor 
Al Dreyer, a junior from Indianapolis, IN, was elected editor of the 1980 DOME last night by a majority vote of the 1979 DOME editorial board along with John Reid, Director of Student Activities. Bill Fuller, 1979 DOME editor, reported that Dreyer won over one other candidate "in the tightest editor race in recent years." 
Dreyer said that he plans to utilize a larger editorial board and a variation of the traditional yearbook format. "More and more college yearbooks are turning to a magazine-style format," he said. "Our year­book has been leaning toward that, but we've never used the style to its potential." 
Dreyer also plans to continue many of the innovations that will be seen in this year's DOME, such as more color and an emphasis on graphics. 
This year's DOME editor Bill. Fuller revealed that if all goes well, the 1979 yearbook should arrive about the end of April. "I think people will like the changes we've made in the book's structure," .he said. 
"We have redefined the sec­tions so that the book fits life at Notre Dame better. That's very important for a yearbook to d0. " which allegedly incited two gang-related shootings that resulted in at least two deaths a few weeks back. 
A third street gang film, "Walk Proud," will be released in May. 
The mayor of San Francisco, Dianne Feinstein, has perso­nally asked that a theater in that city stop showing "Boule­vard Nights.'' She also is seekins legal means to halt screemng of all films that could incite gang violence. 
Warner Bros. Studios, 

Buy them by the inch while they last 
box office success of Boulevard Nights, disclaims any blame for 
the violence. 
The movie, about Mexican­American gangs in East Los Angeles, O,Pened Friday at 103 theaters tn California, the Southwest and New York City. In its first three days, it earned $832,384, said Warner Bros. spokesman Bill Stern. 
''The film earned approxi­mately $65,000,Per day at each theater, which m the industry is considered extremely strong," Stern said. 
Although disclaiming respon­sibility for violence, Warner Bros. has agreed to pick up the tab to hire armed guards to protect moviegoers. 
In addition, the studio did not resist when theater managers in San Francisco and Montclair, a Los angeles suburb, cancelled their contracts for the film. 
The most serious violence occured in San Francisco, where a clash between Mexi­can-American and Chinese gangs left four persons shot and one stabbed on Saturday. 
In Southern California, one youth was shot and two were stabbed at a Montclair drive-in on the film's opening night, and two youths were stabbed at a San Juan Capitstrano drive-in in what police said was a clash between two rival gangs. 
The violence surrounding ''Boulevard Nights'' comes only a month after Paramount's film about New York street gangs, "The Warriors," was blamed for touching off a rash of incidents in which two Southern California youths were .killed and New York City subway riders were assaulted by a gang of youths who had just seen the film. 
Paramount said "The War­riors;' -which some film critics praised as a work of art -earned $4.7 million in its first six weeks. 
A third gang movie, "Walk Proud," is due to be released in May by Universal Studios and a spokesman said the producer is planning no special precautions because of the violence. 
Universal spokesman Frank Wright said the studio consi­ders its PG-rated film a love. story with gang activity sub­merged in the background, not in the same category as ''The Warriors'' or ''Boulevard Nights.'' 
~SU explains short dela~y 
in album sale 
The Student Union is exper­iencing a delay in filling back­ordered albums from the recent record sale. According to the Student Union, the albums ~ill be in next week. In addition, all defective albums and refunds will be accepted today from 3-5 
p.m. 
and tomorrow from 2-4 

p.m. 
at the SU ticket office. Please bring duplicate order forms to the ticket office when requesting each. 


Student Union would also like to remind those students who have not picked up their albums that they will not be eligible for any back orders. These albums must be picked up today from 3-5 p.m. 
.. ..,.. 

------------~­
---------~------------,------~ --------­
The Observer Wednesday, March 28, 1979 -page 9 


LONDON (AP)-Some Soviet 
kids start hitting the vodka 
before they're 10. In Britain 
there are almost twice as many 
teen-age drunks as 12 years 
ag't>, and in West Germany laws 
banning booze sales to those 
under 16 are widely ignored. 
An Associated Press survey 
shows many European coun­
tries are now deeply worried by 
the ravages of alcohol among 
their young people and are 
spending millions of dollars 
trying to do something about it. 
The experience is similar to 
that of the United States where 
drinking ages were lowered at 
the time voting ages were 
several years ago, but many 
states pave now raised drinking 
ages again. 
Some Eur,)pean countries 
claim to be making progress in 
the battle against teen-age 
drunkenness and some say the 
problem is not as serious as 
believed to be behind the 
upsurge of pupils' attacks on 
teachers. 
It also said the nation had 300,000 alcoholics of all ages in a population of 56 million and that Britons of all ages are drinking almost twice as much as 30 years ago. Dr. Griffith Edwards of the Institute of Psychiatry said major factors betnd increased drinking were "less job satisfaction and more money.'' 
The Church of Scotland said 98 percent of boys and 96 percent of girls in Glasgow, hard-drinktng Scotland's largest city, regularly drink at age 17. The law, as throughout Britain, prohibits sale of alcohol to those under 18, but it is widely flouted. 
Jenny Crick of the Indepen­dent Broadcasting Authority said law limits booze ads on British television, but an esti­mated $132 m;"·-" is spent each year publicizing aicohol on TV and elswhere. 
CZECHOLSLOVAKIA: A law to be enacted shortly will ban advertising of alcohol and allow removal of drink disrlays from shop windows. It wil also prohibit sales of all alcohol at youth-only events and allow only beer and wine to be served at mixed-age events, and only low-alcohol beer at sports events and in factories and office canteens. The present law bans sale of alcohol to persons under 18. 


Prague has an anti-alcohol center for youths where doctors speak on the dangers of drink and primary schools run classes on the subject. 
DENMARK: The Danes have few restrictions on drink­ing except a ban on sales to those undtr 18. However, a police spokesman said viola­tions of the law probably run to "thousands every day." The country runs an information campaign on alcohol problems. 
FRANCE: A government com­mittee on alcoholism said drink­ing among youngsters declined in 1960-1968 but now appears to be increasing. But a spokes­man commented: / "Young people do not seem to be drinking more than in previous generations.'' The committee organizes lectures on alcohol­ism and has banned serving at school lunches to those under I5. The move raised eyebrows in wine-drinking France. 
IRELAND: Hard-drinking Ireland last year banned all advertising of alcoholic drinks on its state-run radio and television. 
NORWAY: From 1974 to 1975 the government spent $2 million on anti-alcohol cam­paigns, much ofit in the form of newspaper ads. 
SOVIET UNION: Soviet offi­cials have expressed concern in recent years about heavy drink­i~g by _te_en-agers. The Educa­tiOn Mtntstry's newspaper said last year that 90 Jercent-of Soviet alcoholics ha their first dr!nk before age 15 and one­thtrd before age 10. It said a 5 percent rise in alcohol con­sumption was largely attribu­table to youngsters at schools and technical colleges. TV and newspapers regularly appeal to parents to set a good example ~y moderating their own drink­mg. 
SWITZERLAND: Education on the dangers ofalcohol is part of the everyday curriculum in Swiss schools. Advertising for hard liquor is banned from 
[Continued on page 4] 

SM C sponsorsfourth annual art workshop 
The fourth annual Redbud for the photography workshop , Trail Camp art workshops wili and $20.00 for printmaking. take place May 21-June 2 at the The workshops will follow a full 
nature area located near Bu­schedule, meeting from 8:30 chanan, MI. The three inten­a.m. -noon and 1-4:30 p.m., sive courses offered are taught with an additional hour form by faculty members of the Satnt 7:30-8:30 p.m. for guest lec­
Mary's art department and are turers, discussions and films. open to any interested persons. One day will be set aside for a Three credits will be given for field trip to the Michigan ' 
each of the workshops, which dunes. include printmaking, photog­Enrollment for each workshop raphy, and painting and draw­is limited to ten (10) and 
ing. The $325 fee covers applicants will be accepted in tuttion, room and board, and order of registration. Registra­round trip transportation from tion depostts of $25.00 will be Saint Mary's to Redbud Trail _acce~;>ted beginning today. Camp. Inqutries should be directed to · Painting and drawing will be the workshop coordinator: taught by Sister Cecelia Kelly, Michele Fricke, Art Depart­printmaking by Carol Carter ment, Saint Mary's College, and photography by Doug Ty­Notre Dame, IN 46556, 284­ler. There is a charge of $15.00 5717 or 284-4074. 
• • .Roche 
[Continued from page 1] Cabinet members will be select· ed by April 14 and anyone interested in the posts may . submit applications to the Stu­
\dent Union office Friday. ·Interviews will begin April 2 ,according to Roche. 
'. Roche stated th:it right now he 
•is looking into s~tting up the new CLC and "sc:eing what we can do to make it more success­ful and a voice which will not be ignored." · 
He stated that he is interested in finding out what the CLC has been dotng right, as well as wrong, and what direction it should be taking. "I would also like to look into possible changes in the structure of the CLC," Roche said. 
Roche commented that he is also also interested in looking into some alternative living arrang­ments for people on compus. He indicated an interest in a possible situation such as Keenan-Stanford with women in one wing and men in the other wing. 
He concluded by stating he hopes to submit a new record store proposal for next year. 
Morgenthau to speak on political science 
' 

Prof. Hans ) . Morgcnthau, om of Amenca's most res­pected political scieQ'tists, will speak at 7:00 p.m. tonight in the Library Auditorium. 
Morgenthau is the author of numerous publications, includ­ing Politics Am·mg Nations, an lUthoritative textbook on inter­
national  relations  which  ;has  
been  translated  into  9  lan­ 
guages.  

During his distinguished career, Professor J1-..•orger.thau has served as a consultant to the Departments of State and Defense, a Senior Research Fellow for the Council on Foreign Relations, and a distin­guished Service Professor 'Jf Political Science and Mode ill Histroy at the University of Chicago. He is currerd;. a University Professor of ro I·ICal Science at the New Schou: for Social Research in New )' ork. 
Following his lecture tonigbt, entitled "Is There a New Amr.r­ican Foreign Policy?," Profes­sor Morgenthau will entertain questions from the al.dience. The public is .also invited to a reception in the Library Lounge immediately after the question 
period. This event is co-sp msored by 
the  Student  Union  Academic  
Commission,  the  Institute  for  
Imernational  Studies,  the De­ 

partment of Government, and the National German Honorary Society. 


ORBY' 

Wed. March 28 2cans of Lite 8pm till closing 

/ 
The Observer Wednesday, MarCh 28, ~ 979 -page 10 
Cancer expert 
suggests healthy diet 
ACROSS 24 Tree trim­1 Sultan of-ming 5 At the lim· 25 Tibia 
it of one's 27 Robin or 
patience Riding 
10 Girder 28 Eventhe 
14 Odd, in score 

Dundee 32 Actress 15 Sheeplike Ullmann 16 Pianist 33 Secondhand. Peter. as clothes 
17 Reverses 34 Lady of one's posi­Spain tion 35 Nights or 

19 Dank Desert 20 Area of 37 Make moon­influence shine 
21 Insect­38 Bankem­eating bird ployee 23 Rogers or 39 "Act One" Scheider author 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

~~~=~~~=~~;;'161 Comedy

routine 

DOWN 1 Blubbers 2 Evening 
wear 3 Harvard and 
Yale, e.g. 4 Engage 5 Fronf part 6 Stowe 
character 7 Speech quality 8 Harsh 
Molarity 
j 1/()f,J COME THERE'S A I QU@. SYS7EM FM TilE 

DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. (.AP) • A government cancer expert says American should try to eat more fruits, vege­tables and natural grains in light of recent reports linking colon cancer to a low-fiber diet, 
Dr. Guy Newell, director of the National Cancer Institute:s program on nutrition and can­cer, said the evidence suggest· ing a cancer link was too inconclusive to set a formal policy now. 
But he said people should use "common sense" in trying to eat more foods with natural fiber and limit their intake of animal fat. 
''I've not found anybody who says there's a risk from higher fiber, so in terms of risk­benefit, there's no known risk 
40 Profit 9 Nuisances after taxes 10 Far from 41 Short-lived herdworking 
car l1 Sweetheart 42 Secure 12 "-and the 43 "-deal!" Man" 
44 Arrival 13 Clothesline 46 Eye, to 18 Make an poets effort 47 Waterfront 22 Most bare sight 24 Actor Rip 50 Lay down.,. 25 Agenda 53 Lover of 26 Took on Rose 27 Rime 
54 Ardent 29 Very direct 56 Bedews 30 Rhone city 57 Poppy 31 Crimean 
product seaport 58 Son of Seth · 33 Manageable 
59 Russian veto 60 Actress 
Taylor 
34 Progenitor 36 Maximally 
pessimistic 37 Loony 39 Submits 
personally 42 Mexican shawl 43 Dunne and 
Papas 45 Steam 46 Exclamation 47 Aurora 48 Listen to 49 Mention 50 Part of 
M.S.T. 51· Yours: Fr. 52 Occident 55 Ms. Lyon 

and a possible benefit,'' Newell, deJ>uty direcor of the cancer institute, told an Ameri­can Cancer Society seminar Tuesday. 
Cancer of the large intestine or rectum is the second-leading cancer killer in the United States, with 112,000 new cases and 52,000 deaths expected this year. 
Gallup poll reveals driving habits 
Some epidemiologists have said colon cancer is less fre­quent in those parts of the world where people eat a diet rich in fibrous foods such as fruits, vegetables, soybeans a_11d bread made from unrefined grains. 
Other studies have found a possible association between diets rich in animal fat and 
WASHTNGTON (AP) -A and the price rose to $1 a 
Gallup Organization· poll gallon. showed yesterday that 71 per­Twenty-seven percent of cent of owners of family auto­those responding to the survey mobiles would change theirdriv­said their driving habits would ing habits if they could buy be affected "not very much" or 
gasoline only on certain ~ays "not at all." 
The Daily Crossword 
Two percent had 
4 


Michael Molinelli 



..·· 
. I,•' 

ATTENTION COLLEGE STUDENTS 
You may be eligible for -a two-year Air Force ROTC scholarship. The scholarship includes full tuition, lab expenses, incidental fees, a reimbursement for textbooks, and $100 a month tax free. How do you qualify? You must have at least two years of graduate or undergraduate work remain­ing, and be_ willing to serve your nation at least four years as an Air Force officer. Scholarships are available to students who can qualify for pilot, navigator, or missile training, and to those who are majoring in selected technical and nontechnical academic disciplines, in certain scientific areas, in undergraduate nursing, or selected premedical degree areas. Non-scholarship students enrolled in the Air Force ROTC two-year program also receive the $100 monthly tax-free allowancejustJike the scholarship students. Find out today about a two-year Air Force ROTC scholarship and about the Air Force way of life. Your Air Force ROTC counselor has the details. 

Contact: Captain Davis or Captain Norris 283·6634 
Gotewoy toogr~ol woy of life.· 


co lop cancer. 
One recent study suggested that fiber helped protect the lining of the large intestine from ammonia that was a hi­product of body wastes. Am­monia can introduce random changes in the genetic content of cells, changes that are thought to predispose cells to cancer. 
no opinion. 
The survey was commis­sioned and released by the Highway Users FederatiOn, a national coalition of business, industry and highway user or­ganizations. Gallup between March 2 and March 12 inter­viewed 1,541 adults, its stand­ard scientific sampling of the entire U.S. population. 
Of the respondents who said they would change, 36 percent replied a "great deal" and 35 percent said ''somewhat.'' 
. Twenty percent said they would join a car pool, 11 percent would rake public tr~nsportation and 12 percent satd they would walk or ride a bicycle. 
... Golfers 

[Continued from page 12] 
score, a 318, to climb from sixth to fourth in the team standings. 
The third round was con­tested over the demandiQg Fountainebleau Golf Course, which O'Sullivan described as ''monstrous'' . The Irish coach added, ''That was the turning 
-point for us. The course was very taxing, both physically and mentally, and we were able to throw some beautiful scores. After that, we just played for pride and to keep our team position.' 
Notre Dame, which narrowly missed a bid to last spring's NCAA tournament, begms the Northern portion of its schedule Monday when the Irish travel to Muncie, Ind., for the Ball State Invitational. The meet will include the top teams in the stateand on the strength of last 
·fall's first place finish in the Indiana Intercollegiate Cham­pionship, Notre Dame should be one of the favorites, along with the host school and Pur­due. The Boilermakers won the Notre Dame Invitational in October. 
The strong showing in Flor­ida will have a beneficial effect on the team for the remainder of its season, according to O'Sullivan. "Thinking about what we accomplished will give us a little added incentive," promised O'Sullivan. "We have now what I would call a · quiet confidence--the coach does the talking and the players talk with their sticks." 
The Irish . should also be ­buoyed by a recent editorial of Golf World magazine,_ which accorded Notre Dame· honor­able mention recognition in its pre-season Top Ten poll. "That's the first time that's ever happened at Notre Dame, and I think it's an indication of what we can ao.'' 
ROCCOS 
men's ho.irstyling 

o.t comforto.ble prices 
531 N. ffiichigan 233-4957 



The Observer-Sports Wednesday, March 28, 1979 -page 11 
[Continued from page 12] been busting their tails, and the difference isn't • k I" t" • th Mills speaks for all his colleagues when he says, really noticeable. Anyway, its the same for -PIC up app tea IOns tn e "the umps are getting screwed. They get $35 everybody." Maybe so, but when the bell rings T , Qff" perdiem money, which is pretty meager in some and a few legitimate mista~es ~e mad~ by th.e reasurer S ICe ciries, and hardly get to see their families all non-professionals (as they mevttablr. wtll be) a 2nd Floor Lafortune 
season. But, for many of us it's the opportunity will set some of the more volaule players, we've waited for, and so far the players have managers, owners and fans to howling. been very friendly and COOJ?erative. And, the Baseball owes it to its hordes of followers to -applications must be in by
brand of ball makes it easter than working a rectify the situation and loosen its purse strings college game... a bit, and let the umpires stick in their hands and Frida A riiS th 
Steve Garvey notes, "These guys h~a~v~e~r~e~a~ll~y~g~r:ov:e~l~f.:o:r~s:o:m:e:_:o~f~th~e~lo~o:s:e~c~h~a=n~g~e~·-----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Sports Wrapup 
The Observer looking for sports writers 
So you want co be a sportswriter! Here is your chance to become the Red Smith, Dick Young, or Riclt Talley of the future. The Observer is looking for new talent so that the Fi~hting Irish and Belles can get their best coverage ever. If thts sounds like the job for you, come up to The Observer office tomorrow (Thursday) at 8 p.m. and sign up! The office is located on the third floor of the LaFortune Student Center. Everyone is welcome, and all those who are currently on the staff are also asked co attend. 
Home opener for tennis team today 
The Irish tennis team, fresh from its California Spring trip, 
faces a challenging home opener this week when it confronts 
the #l and #2 favorites for the 1979 Big 10 title. 
Michigan squad contains 3 of the top 50 favorites for 
selecton on the N.C.A.A. All-American team. These are Jeff 
Etterbeck #6, Mike Leech #20, and Judd Schaufler #3 3. 
The Wolverines face the Irish today at 2:30 p.m. at the 
Courtney Center Courts. 
On Sunday at 11 a.m., the Wisconsin Badgers, who 
represented the Big 10 at the N.C.A.A. last May, will face 
the Irish, led by All-American candidate Ken Thomas. Last 
year Notre Dame dropped a close decision to the Badgers at 
Madison. 
The Domers now stand 4 wins and 5 losses after the Spring 
trip to California. 
Tickets still available for hockey banquet 
The annual Notre Dame hockey banquet will be held this Saturday, March 31, in the Monogram Room in the ACC beginning at 7:30p.m. Emcee for the banquet will be Notre Dame athletic director Edward "Moose" Krause. Tickets are $9 for Blue Line club members and $11 for non-members, and can be purchased by calling Thelma Hessling at 234-8279. 
Classifieds 
•

ottces 
date one to five students. For informa­tion call 287-5361 evenlngs. 
Room for rent with option to ihare house. Graduate student preferred. References required. Rent Is negotiable. 289-0103 hights. 
... Bonk 
[Continued from page 12] 
competing tor the number-one spot," Bonk, a native of Park Ridge, Ill., said. "We knew that whoever had a better year would go. Each of our pre­sences motivated one another.'' 
While Bonk grew stronger as the year passed by, a hamstring pull on the second-to-last week­end of the regular season hampered Salimando' s chances for a shot at the medal. 
"We both had great desires to go,'' admitted Bonk, a marketing major. "We both felt that we were good enough to go. 
"It would have been very 
.. .NDbats 
Jamieson each scored eight times durins the week. Mean­while, Bobmski and Bartlett 
Assistant Treasurer­
gave indication that they will be 
Student Government -must be presently a sophomore 
... Strike 
and going into Accounting 
Tickets 
interesting if Steve didn't get hurt. In. the Great Lakes tourney we would probably have been closer in the stand­ings if he were in top form.'' 
In the title competttion, Bonk was definitely in top form. He posted a 21-2 mark, and finished above such competi­tion as Erni,e Simon, Wayne State's foil stalwart who won the 1978 title and finished ahead of Bonk in the Great Lakes. 
And if Bonk has anything to say about it, he'll be back in the title picture a yeat from now. 
'Td hope I can be back in the 
All classrlred ads must be recerved by 5:00 p m .. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Fnday. 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All cla:.sifieds must be pre·paid. either in person or through the mall. 
Ahoy Sailors!! Join the N.D. Salting Club Learn to sail travel with the racing team meetings Wed. 6:30 204 O'Shag. 
top six next year,' ' the Grace 
Hall resident modestly fore­
casted. "Fencing is strange, 
though, in that one off day can 
ruin your overall chances. All 
the conditions have to be 
right." 

While the conditions were nearly perfect for Bonk this year, they weren't quite the same for the Irish team. For the first time in three years, Notre Dame finished as low as second in the national (>icture, 11 points behind the favored Wayne State team. 
''Actually, we were happy to r.Jace second,'' said Bonk. 
'We were returning Mike Sul­livan (two-time gold medalist) in sabre, but we went in with two fencers who never had national championship experi­ence. 
"It's a[ressure tournament. We woul have had to fence out of our minds to win it all. Well, I don't know--maybe I did fence out of my mind.'' 
And the oddsmakers, if they every try their luck with fenc­ing, will remember Andy Bonk next year. 
Diane Is Cammie In Florida yet? 
The Big Whoppers 
{with a little help from a friend) 
[Continued from page 12) 
chipped in with four hits. 
Simendinger was the main Irish weapon during the week, cracking the ball at a .454 clip. CatcherJim Montagano batted .304 ana reached base 12 times in 23 trips, while Pullano and big winners for Notre Dame this spring. 
Since it was a little too cold to play yesterday against Bethel, the Irish get their frrst taste of regular season action when they travel to St. Joseph's for a doubleheader Saturday. 

Cell Popovich is the proud great-Aunt of twin boys (Timothy and Jonathan) born on March 27, 1979. Mother, Father, babies, and great-aunt doing fine!!! I 
Why Pay More? HANNER RECORDS has all $7.98 LP's for only $4.99. Flanner 
Records 603 Flanner Phone 4256 Hours Monday-Thursday 4:110-5:00, 6:30-8:00. Why $pend more off campus?$ 
ATTENTION ALL LOGAN CENTER 
VOLUNTEERS AND INTERESTED STUDENTS! Help a Mentally handicapped child enjoy the world famous Monte Carlo Circus this 5aturday at the ACC. Lots of kids are going, so come and help them have a great time. Remember, Saturday March 31st, 9:00 a.m.-2:30p.m. Meet at logan center at 9:00 a.m. Questions call Mike 1371 or Sue 41-4832. 
t&Found 


Lost: Gold Selko Womans watch. Please return reward. Call 289-6711 or 232-6486 after 6 pm. and ask for Candy. 
Lost: 1944 St. Xavier high school ring. If found, please call 3820. 
Lost before break: One black and brown tape box containing 1Q-12 8-track tapes. Call George at 1535 after 11:30 p.m. 
For Rent 
19n MGB Roadster, 8000 mites, Green, 
Rooms for rent, $40.00 each. Fireplace rides to school. 3blocks from golf course. 
233-1329 Sept. or June. 
Wanted 
Need ride to Chicago Friday March 30 after 3:30. Please call John 1373 or Paul 1374. 
Ride needed to Lansing-MI. Pleasant area. Weekend of March 31. Will share expenses. Please call Dusty at 4-1-5183. 
TENNIS PROS WANTED--Excellent Summer seasonal and year-round positions available; good playing and teaching background required. Call (301) 654-3no. or send 2 complete resumes, pictures to: K.J. Belknap, W.T.S., 8401 Connecticut Avenue, Suite 1011, Chevy Chase. MD 20015. 
For Sale 
Used Book Shop. Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7 Ralph Casperson. 1303 Buchanan Road Niles. 683-2888. 
For Sale: 1973 Mazda RX3, good condition, $500 or best offer. Call Terry Dunne at 283-8393. 
Tickets for tonight's BOSTON concert for 5ale. Call 8627. 
Personals 
I need Graduation tlx! I Will trade soul or $$$. Call Don at 255-6071 or drop line to 
P.O. Box 481 H.D. 
Unknown talent? Outrageous comedy? Audition for the 2nd annual Gong Show-March 30 9:30-? at Gulseppes. Call Marte 41-4814 or Debby 41-4833 to sign up acts. 
Dave, Duff, Tush, Connie, Hippie, Space, Mike, Pat, Betsy, and Drug Van: Thanks tor the excellent road trip. Looking forward to seeing ya'll at the first annual JiZ Jamboree! 
The Sun Sisters 

Come at the Bemis-Apearlng this week "Club" The Bemis Inn, LongBranch N.J. 
TJJ: Would you like. to dance until dawn? Converse, have a drink, eat a prawn? Seven o'clock Saturday to Walsh Hall make your way tor ajaunt not matched In Ceylon! 
BJK 

Tickets for "Spirit In the Night" the sophomore Class formal, are now avail­able (and going quickly) at the dining halls. 
Do It on the Water Join the N.D. &ailing Club 
Jimbo, Hope this B-Day finds you at Cagney level. Remember St. A's?! You gave me alot of good memories. Looking forward to more of the same, especially now that you're at the magic number 24. See ya soon. 
Little Bro 

Saturday night's Jersey Shore night at THE CLUBS 
Don't miss tile Sarin-Badin Spring fever party at Gulseppe's saturday, March 31, 8:30-? $2. 
Mom& Dad, Thanks for a wonderful week. The food, drink and company was marvelous. 
Love, smc ed. 

D.C., KANSAS 
Thank you for the relaxing week. Watch for salad, soon to come through the mall, In return for pecan pie. 
Michael 

Bear, You're not a loser! Love, Ted 
Pam Don'tcry over spilled pens. Pull yourself together In lime for next weeks BOG meeting. 
Monday night CE 

Maggie, Happy 191 Have the best should-have-been-legal birthday, Baby! Afellow McAuleylte 
Bob, Seolen MonthsIll 
s.s. 

To Terri, Krls, Laurie, Usa, Christy, Madeline, Eileen, Patti, Suzie, Judy and Sharon Your company and hopltallty made florida paradise. Our most heartfelt thanks Love Jack, Sean, Jim and Greg 
To the Legs and the Aardvark of 3rd floor Walsh 
Felicitations on basketball and cheer­leading. France Is celebrating with you. Bren, MaBelle and LeBoeut 
P.S. HI Snake 
Clair, One year Is the first step Into eternity. Love Always, Greg 
Jeannine 

Thanks for a great time In Cleveland TrlsH 

Wednesday, March28., 1979 -page 12 
SRorts 
ND bats warm up in Florida 
by Mike Henry Sports Wn.ter 

Considering the circum­-Stances, the Notre Dame base­ball ream did not suffer as badly in Florida as their 2-5 mark would indicate. The Irish were competitive 10 most contests against clubs already hardened by a spare of games under·the warm Florida sun. 
The Umversity of Florida was already 16-5 versus tough Southeastern Conference rivals when Notre Dame traveled to Gainesville to be gator bait. Yet, the game was a taut struggle until outfielder Larry Hall deposited one just over the leftfield fence ro score three runs and sew up the battle. 
Sophomore righthander Bob Barrlett went the distance in that one, and four days later stifled a hard-hitting Central Florida outfit, until two mis­takes were turned into back-to­hack solo shots by Hal Staats and Jeff Rudolph. 
"Central Florida is extremely aggressive at the plate, and you can't afford to make any mis­takes against them'', head coach Tom Kelly noted after­ward. They also took the Irish 10-3 in Notre Dame's first game, although it was tied 2-2­10 the sixth inning. Senior righty Mike Bobinski looked strong in his first appearance, but came out after having thrown 98 pitches by the middle of the sixth. And the Irish bullpen was unable to hold back the floodgates. 
Notre Dame managed to split with a powerful Delaware squad--one that made it to the NCAA tournament last year. The first game against the Blue Hens was an exciting affair in which the Irish fought back from a 5-2 deficit to post an 8-5 triumph. Leftfielder Mike Jam­ieson keyed a seventh inning uprising, with his single pre­ceding five bases on balls that netted three tallies. Jamieson dented the plate three times in all. 
And, the following day, un­der threatening conditions, the Irish jumped to a 4-0 lead before Delaware's heavy metal asserted itself. A five-run 

Jun_io Ana\• . . tn competition 
be_tore tm.> year. surpnsed many by taking firs'! at the national 
tournament over oreak. 
explosion in the second was helped along by a Leo Fiorilla single that got past center­fielder Greg Rodems and scored three runs. The barrage continued before the game was halted by rain after five in­nings, just long enough to stamp it as an offKial contest. 
The final game on Notre Dame's spring sojourn was against Stetson, a Division II powerhouse. The game began at 7:00pm, and when it ended, mercifully,. just before mid­night, Notre Dame found itself on the front end of a 19-11 margin. The Irish hardly felt like celebrating, however, as the game was marred by twenty-eight walks, seventeen issued by Irish moundsmen. 
Despite walking ten men in 6 and 2I 3 innings, Bobinski per­formed admirably as both sides bitterly denounced the home plate umpire. In this second ND win, Ricky Pullano, Jam­ieson, and Mark Simendinger, the top of the lineup, all crossed home three times, while first baseman Henry Valenzuela 

[Continued on page 11] 

Bonk beats odds to take fencing gold 
by Paul Mullaney Assz'stant Sports Editor 
If oddsmakers paid as much attention to collegiate fencing as they do to football and basketball, Andy Bonk's chances of winning this year's gold medal in foil wouldn't have been given too much optimistic ink--before the season, that is. 
Notre Dame's junior foilist spent his first two years fencing in the shadows of gold medalist Par Gerard and equally­taiented Mike McCahey. All reason enough for Bonk to be considered an unknown com­modity prior to the season's start. 
But there was never any 

Utnp's strike could hurt baseball 
Since Goose Gossage recorded the final our of last \·ear's World Series, capping the Phoenix­iike rise of the Yankees. fans have counted the days until the return of their heroes to spring training camps in Florida and Arizona. The 
ognoscenti shake their heads knowingly, t ven .. s Pete Rose goes 2-for-26 and Jim Palmer gets -belled in consecutive outings; they know these ~tre aberrari"~r.s. bur o;;uch performance<; give 'orne leather-lunged rooters a chance to W('nder . loud whether these superstars are worth the bundle of greenbacks they haul away. 
Spring is also a time for someone like Chris Welch. a twenty-one year old who was 4-7 at the Universitv of South Florida last year. to pitch shut-our ball in his first four stints (nine plus innings) with the World Champions. Knowing he has no chance to remain with the big club. his performance engenders hope nevertheless as he packs his bags for Syracuse. 
The vignettes of the spring panorama are famil­iar ro us all. whether we gain our impressions through first-hand observation or the reporting of those fortunate enough to have access to the pre-season playground. And. while one spring is as similar to another. something is different this spring. a o;;iruarion which·will cause a great deal ol consternation if it carries over into the regular season: the major league umpires refuse to work any games until their contract is renegotiated. 
So while agent Richie Phillips haggles with Bowie Kuhn and the owners, trying to squeeze water from a stone, men whose previous experience has been at the college and minor league levels have been called into the breach. 
c:\­

Mike Henry 

For the most part, they have performed admirably. being motivated by the chance to move up the ladder, or simply ro uphold the dignity they feel befits their profession. Still, isolated incidents make one wonder if the establishment dare allow the season to begin without Messrs. Chylak, Springstead, Wendel­stadt, et al. in tow. 
Ron Cey, for one, believes the difference is no­ticeable. "How can you expect a bunch of amateur:; ;olive up to major league standards?" he ponders. Johnny Bench jokingly reminded Ken Werner. a ypung man who has umpired three years in the Class A Florida State League and sees this spring as an opportunity to make the jump to the majors, to ''watch out for the curve ball.'· And, in a recent game against the Mets. Yankee left-bander Tommy John stepped off the mound to chastise an arbiter for failing to invoke the infield fly rule. 
Still, most players have voiced few complaints about the job these part-timers are doing. Maybe that's because, as Jerry Mills says, "its spring training, and most of the veterans are just going through the motions, trying to get it over with.'' Mills is the president of the Sunshine Officials Association, an organization held in high esteem by the sport's hierarchy. 
[Continued on a e 11] 

doubt in the mind oflrish sword in on his first NCAA appear­coach Mike DeCicco that Bonk ance by winning the gold medal could fence with the best of this past weekend at Princeton. them. While McCahey and "I knew after going unde­Gerard received all the atten­feated in the first two days of tion, DeCicco watched Bonk the competition that I had a quietly accumulate a two-year good shot at winning the mark of 42-6, good enough for national championship,'' said third on the all-time Irish foil Bonk. ''And after it was all list. over, I couldn't believe it. It 
''It was just a matter of Andy took a while to sink in.'' getting the opportunity that While winning the gold long awaited him," said medal was an accomplishment DeCicco, whose fencers have never to be forgotten, getting 105 straight and have put four the nod to go to the finals was unblemished seasons back-to­perhaps the toughest accom­back. plishment which _aonk faced 
And when Bonk had that this year. · opportunity this year, he made Steve Salimando, the senior the most of it. He lost only four foil captain, and Bonk entered of 44 bouts during the regular the season as a close one-two in season, placed second in the the weapon. While both had a Great Lakes Championships trip to the NCAA finals fore­and received the nod to repre­most in th~ir goals, their pre­sent Notre Dame's foil squad in sence remamed an asset to one the NCAA title bouts. another. 
And, not being able to leave ''All during the year we were well enough alone, Bonk cashed [Continued on page 11] 
Irish golfers open spring season with impressive 4th at Miami 
by Craig Chval Sports Wn'ter 
Coach Noel 0' Sullivan's golfers returned from the sunny skies and green fairways of Miami with exactly what they had in mind when they left--the lowest four-day total of any Northern school in the presti­gious Miami Invitational. 
The Irish total of 1255 enabled them to top seven other Northern teams, and finish fourth overall in a field of 15 schools. The University of Miami claimed the champion­ship with a 1205 total. O'Sulli­van, who has set as his club's goal an invitation to the NCAA ,meet was ecstatic about the outcome. 
"It was a magnificent pro­duction," raved Notre .Dame's sixth-year head coach. "The meet was contested over four different courses which were extremely difficult, making our scores all the more valid.'' 

John Lundgren was the top individual performer for the Irish, posting a four-day total of 309, which netted him 11th place out of 96 individuals. Lundgren, a junior hailing from Montevideo, Minn., fired an even-par 71 on the second day, the third best score of the afternoon. 
Dave Knee and senior cap­tain Tim Saurs recorded identi­cal totals of 313 to finish in a deadlock for 17th place. "Lundgren, Saurs and Knee deserve the individual acco­lades," said O'Sullivan, "but what made the week so tremen­dous was the fact that every­body contributed. Every one of the six players had his score count toward the team total at some point in time during the tournament.'' 
The high point of the event for the squad came during the 
third  round,  when  the  Irish  
carded  the  day's  third  best  
[Continued on pa  e 10)  

l I 




