, , , The Celestial Cow -page 9 


VOL. XIII. NO. 103 

Brown meets with Duggan 
Faculty votes on chair 
by Tim Sullivan . StaffReporter 
Speech and Drama Department faculty voted unanimously yesterday morning to require candidates for the Welch chair to submit their perception of the department's future and a general review of the department, to faculty administrators, and interested students. The Welch chair is an endowed professorship in the discipline of speech communications. 
In addition, Candice B. Brown, an instructor in the department, spoke yesterday with Saint Mary's President Dr. John Duggan about the various controversies surrounding the selection of the chair position, and about the role of Saint Mary's in the selection process. 
Brown cited as the mam controversy a "lack of input" into the Welch chair selection. "Not one person who has any communications back­ground has had any input into the selection process,'' she said. The possibility that o11:e of the candidates selected by the search committee has no background in speech communications has caused concern among communications concentrates that the discipline may cease to exist as a result. Students met with William Hickey, Dean of Faculty at Saint Mary's yesterday to discuss the matter. 
''If the Welch chair is filled with someone not trained in speech communications, that disci­pline will be left with only one junior position to teach two-hundred students in thirty courses,'' an informed faculty source stated. This situation would arise since the two present communica­tions instructors--Frank Zink and Brown--have contracts that expire at the end of the semester. 
A half-time communications, half-time film position was proposed to help alleviate this situation but has recently been rewritten as a full-time film position. 
''The idea to have the candidates review the 
department is Professor (Reginald) Bain's," 
Brown stated. ''This will give the students, 
faculty and administration an open exchange of 
ideas about the department and the discipline of 
speech communications. It wil give the 
candidates an opporutnity to interview students 
and faculty, and to visit classes when they 
visit." 
Candidates are required to give a public 
performance and lecture on a topic relevant to 
thdr position when they visit for interviewing. 
The faculty also requested that Brown and 
Zink compose a paper defining speech communi­
cations in terms of the department and the 
general field, to be sent to prospective 
candidates. "This will give proper provmce to 
the speech communications disicipline," Brown 
explained. 
Brown later discussed the various controver­
sies surrounding the chair appointment with Dr. 
Duggan. "He is a fine, open person who did not 
feel threatened by anything I had to say,'' 
Brown complimented. "We discussed how 
some people felt threatened by student reaction 
to the situation, but he seemed glad to have that 
kind of input. He indicated that It was alri~ht for 
people to be concerned with their discipline.'' 
"We also discussed the way the present job description for the chair has changed from the first narrow specifications submitted by Mr. Welch wlien he donated the chair," Brown continued. The chair job description is now :defined as a "holistic approach to the inter­related disciplines of film, theatre, and commu­nications,'' while the first specificatons for the chair limited the position to the traditional 
communications discipline only. 
The chair search committee is composed of 
Mitchell Lifton, chairman of the department, 
Elizabeth Noel, of the English department, and 
Donald C. Sniegowski, assistant dean of the 
College of Arts and Letters. All three of the 
members have degrees in English. 

Egypt ready to accept terms 
CAIRO, Egypt (AP) -Presi­Andrews Air Force Base in ment for the Middle East,'' the dent Carter concluded his Mid­suburban Maryland. president said before leaving east odyssey yesterday with The next step was up to Cairo. 
Egypt's acceptance of peace Israel, where Prime Minhter Before flying to Cairo, Cart~r terms and Israel's promise to Menachem Begin said an held a final breakfast session consider them. Both nations accord would be signed this with Begin in Israel. said a treaty could be signed month if the cabinet and parlia­"You have succeeded," the within the month. ment approve the draft. prime minister said just before 
After a 3-hour airport confer­E~ypt s Minister of State for Carter left. "We made real ence with Egypt's Anwar Foreign Affairs Burros Ghali progress in the peace-making Sadat, the president announced w~s asked if he agreed with progress. Now, of course, it is the Egyptians have accepted Be~in. ''I can answer positive­the time of Egypt to give its 
U.S. proposals for resolving all ly, ' he told The Associated reply." remaming obstacles to a treaty Press. "I hope the peace treaty Sadat' s reply was positive. with Israel. will be concluded in this He agreed to U.S. formulas for 
Then Carter boarded Air month.'' resolving differences on three Force One for the 14-hour trip Begin said "it would be the issues: Israeli access to as­to Washington, briefing Senate duty of the government to sured supplies of oil, the timing Majority Leader Robert Byrd, resign" if the parliament, the of moves toward autonomy for D-W.Va., on the developments Knesset, rejected the American the Israeli-occupied Gaza Strip by telephone. compromise proposals. and a timetable for an exchange 
The mood was jubilant The prime mmister said the of ambassadors between Egypt aboard the president's/lane. three leaders would sign the and Israel. There were smiles an hand­accord in Washington. Then Carter said he informed shaking. Chief of Protocol Kit Begin and Sadat would sign the Begin br telephone of Sadat's Dobelle raised a glass in toast Hebrew version in Jcrusalem approva. to Carter. The president, who and the Arabic text in Cairo. In a nationwide radio inter­appe:~.n.i in a good mood, went The breakthrough came in view, Begin said parliamentary to bed a couple hours after the last hours of the peace debate could begm as soon as take-off. gamble Carter began when he next week. A vote could come 
A welcoming party including left home last Wednesday. two days later. Vice President Walter F. "I am convinced that now we ''If there is a•majoritywe will Mondale, House Speaker have defined all of the main sign the peace treaty a very Thomas P O'Neill, D-Mass., ingredients of a /eace treaty short time later," he added. Democratic Leader Jim Wright, between Egypt an Israel which The breakthrough occurred D-Texas, and other congress­will be the cornerstone of a during an 11th hour meeting men prepared to greet Carter at comprehensive peace settle-[continued on page 11] · 
·''··· 


Kreskin performed Auditorium last night. Magenms]  before Story  300 people on page 11.  at [Ph 0 'lAughlin oto by Gate  
Title IX  

Sports.falls underlaws 
by Mar~ Perry Assistant Sports Editor and StaffReporter 

Editor's Note: The following is the first in a two-part sen'es devoted to studying the effect Title IX has had on collegiate athletics since it.tassage in 1972, especially a ter the re­lease ofthe Title guidelines by the HEW in December of 1978. 
In 1972, the Congress of the United States passed a series of laws known as the Educational Amendments. One of these laws read as follows: 
"No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, or be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimina­tion under any educational pro­gram or activity receivin' fed­eral financial assistance. ' 
The law became known as Title IX, and has caused contro­versy, argument, and lots of worries for athletic directors across the country. 
Since nearly every college and university in the U.S. receives money from the gov­ernment, the Title IX law applies to these schools in all areas, iucluding athletics. 
The Congress gave the schools three years to meet these requirements, but found that six years later many schools had not yet reached parity of funds in their athletic departments. Their findings indicated that 300,000 of the 
[Continued on page 2) 



News in brief 
Armygeneral urges 
return to draft 
WASHINGTON (AP)--The Army's to,P general urged yesterday an immediate return to the milttary draft, and the heads of the Air Force, Navy and Marines said conscription is likely if not inevitable. Gen. Bernard W. Rogers, chief of staff of the Army , called for an annual draft of 75,000· to 100,000 persons tor six years of service in the individual· ready reserve -a manpower pool that would be used in warume chiefly to replace battlefield casualties. The four military leaders -all members of the joint chiefs of staff ­recommended, as a minimum, resumption of military registration. There was some difference among the officials on whether women should be required to sign up for possible service. 
Bayh backs direct electzon ofpresidents 
WASHINGTON (AP)--A constitutional amendment calling for direct election of presidents will face formidable opposition in the Senate, tts chief sponsor and an opponent agreed yesterday. Sen. Birch Bayh, D-Ind., said backers of the measure have the 60 votes to block a threatened filibuster and believe they can muster the two-thirds majority needed to pass the measure. Sen. Orrin G. Hatch, R-Utah, said opponents are expected to move to send the proposal to the Senate Judiciary Committee. ''If that doesn't happen, it will be a real donnybrook," Hatch said. If the measure passes the Senate, it is expected to have relatively little toruble in the House, which passed a similar proposal by a better than 4-1 margin in 1970. 

Weather 
Much colder with diminishing winds today. Chance for snow flurries. Steady or slowly falling temperatures. Cold with a chnce for snow flurries tonight. Lows near 10. Mostly sunny tomorrow. Highs in the mtd 20s. 
9:30am--LECTURE, ''the new conserv~tive prayerb_ook, '.' is discussed by rabbi jules harlow, dtrector of hturgtcal commission of the rabbinical assembly, sponsored by., the theology department, LIBRARY FACULTY LOUNGE. 
12:15 
pm --SEMINAR, "biochemical mechanisms of cellular differentiation in histo plasma capsulatum," dr. george bogualawski, miles labontories, GALVIN AUD. 

12:15 
pm --MASS, fr. robert griffin, LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 


3:25 pro --GRADUATE SEMINAR, "synthesis of simple feedback control structures for multivanable interacting," prof. ronald p. andres, princeton u., sponsored by chemtcal engineering department, 269 CHEM. ENGR. BUILDING 
4 pm --LECTURE, chris murphy, ·pr_es. of first bank, sponsored by n.d. grad. school of busmess, 122 HAYES HEALY 
4:15 pm --SEMINAR, "internal nutrient loading my macrophytes·oflake wingra, wise.," stephen carpenter, u. of wise., GALVIN AUD. 
4:30 
pro --SEMINAR, "military doctors, lawyers, dentists, cpa's" sponsored by army rotc, 219 ROTC BLDG 

4:30 
pm --LECTURE, "human rights in contemporary international relations," edy kaufman, sponsored by institute for international studies, MEM. ·LIB. AUD. 

4:30 
pro --LECTURE* "the formation of micel~es," prof. chatles tanford, duke u., sponsored by the chemtstry dept., 123 NIEWLAND SCIENCE HALL 


5: 15 pm --FASTER'S MASS, sponsored by world hunger coaliuon, WALSH CHAPEL 
6:30 pro--MEETING, sailing club, 204 O'SHAG 
7 pm --LECTURE, "the meaning of prayer," fr. john dunne, c.s.c., sponsored by the howard hall religious commission, HOWARD HALL 
7 pro --FILM, "the ten days that shook the world, ENGR. AUD 
8 r,m --CONCERT, "chopin !ives," robert guralnik, pianist, 0 LAUGHLIN AUD 
8:15 pro --CONCERT, notre dame collegium musicum, 

sponsored by dept of music, CROWLEY HALL 
8:30pm--DISCUSSION, edy kaufman, member of amnesty international executive committee, sponsored by n.d.a.k., GRACE BASEMENT LOUNGE 
[continued from page 1} 
400,00.0 students participating in athletics were men, and that schools averaged ten varsity sports for men and only six for women. 
On December 6, 1978, Joseph Califano, Secretary· of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare (HEW) released a policy interpretation 
Senate stands firm on·decision 
by Tom McSteen 

The Administratirm ha:.; de­cided not to changeits position on mandatory retirement at age 65, according to a letter from Provost Timothy O'Meara read at the Faculty Senate meeting last night. 
The Faculty Senate has pro­posed that the reitrement age be hiked immediately ot 70 10 order to protect the approxi­mate 29 faculty members retir­ing between 1979-1982. The present policy holds that the retirement age will be hike after 1982. 
The Senate concluded last night that the issue should be discussed further by the Com­mittee of Faculty Affiars. 
In a report from the Commit­tee of Faculty Affairs, it was suggested that many faculty members are disturbed by an Administration policy which re­quires heavy teaching loads while offerin~ insuffiCient re­search commttment. 
Other issues dicussed at the meeting included faculty sal­aries, which senate members pointed out are lower than those of comparable universi­ties. 
Issues still unresolved in­clude the possibility of night classes and whether final exams should count for more than one-third of a course grade. 

~~~~?.,bss~~~;~•-l 
van Asst. Night Editor: Pam Degnan 
Copy Readers: Mark Rust, Mike Onufrak Layout Staff: Rod Beard, Ann Monaghan, Margie Brassil, Ryan VerBerkmoes 
Editorial  Layout:  Tina  
Terlack  
Features  Layout:  Chns­ 
topher Stewart  

Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Betsy Masana, Nancy Morris, Katie Brehl Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Dan Letcher Ad Layout: Flo 0 'Connell, David E. Wood Photographer: Cate Mag ennis 
The Observer IUSPS 598 9201 is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year [$10 per semester! from The Observer. P.O. box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Wednesday, March 14, 1979 -page 2 
... Title IX 
of the Title IX law, outlining all the areas where schools must provide equal funds for both men's and women's sports programs in fmancial assis­tance, recruiting, and "other financially measurable benefits and opJ?ortunities.'' 
Also mcluded were areas that were not ''financially measur­able,'' including the opportun­ity to compete and practice, coaching tutoring, athletic facil­ities, and housing and dining services and facilities. 
One statement contained in the policy interpretation was believed to be the saving grace for many athletic departments. The government stated that differences in spending could be justified ''if the institution can demonstrate that the dif. ferences result from non-dis­criminatory factors such as the nature or level of competi­tion of a particular sport.'' 
Included would be equip­
ment,  supply,  travel,  living  
expenses  while  on  the  road,  
more  extensive  publicity,  "or  

the cost of other activities that may vary in accordance with the requirements of local, re~ional, or national competition.' 
At that time the government said that they would "take account of the size and cost of football by measuring present compliance in terms of actual, r~ther than potential, I?~ticipa­tton rates; by recogmzmg the fact that the costs of some sports are greater than others, and where apJ>ropriate, by taking account of the scope of competition." 
Many athletic departments interpreted this statement to mean that football would be exempted from the federal reg­ulations. But earlier this month Califano clarified the situation stating, "It was clear that the intent of Congress was to include all revenue-producing sports.'' 
The exemption of football and other revenue-producing sports has been the main source of discussion prior to the issu­ance of the guidelines, and has been debated extensively in the last few months, which Califano 
AHS postpones 
•


meettng 
The Thursdaymeeting of the American Historical Society is postponed until after break. The Society will notify ·all members previous to the date of the election of all officers. Anyone interested in running for office please call ] ohn Cooney 8483 or Joyce Ravnikar 7383 


~· 

Shows 2:15-4:40-7:05-9:30 Shows 1:00-3:10-5:20-7:36-9:52 


Howard Hall 
announces 


'The Meaning of Prayer' 
a lecture by 
Fr. John Dunne, C.S.C. Wednesday, March 14 7:00pm in Howard Hall 

The Observer 
SBP Andy McKenna accepted an award from the American Lung Association for the student body for their participation in the Christmas Seals Program. Pictured from left to right are john Reid, director ofstudent activities, McKenna, Thomas Lavelle andjames E. Murphy, both from the Board ofDirectors ofALA. fPhoto b_y Mark Muenchl 

Administration won't budge 

large response causes delays 
by Tom Hay Roche did not indicate whether he would 
re-submit his original proposal for the store, but 
said that as far as he was concerned, "the issue 
Overwhelming reponse to the recent Student is not dead until it is taken care of properly.'' 
Union record sale has caused some delays in the "I would prefer a permanent store, but we 
distribution of records. The sale's success, may be able to work something else out.'' 
however, has not softened the administration's Fr. Van Wolvlear, Vice-President of Student 
opposition to a premanent student-run record Affairs., said he was 'dumbfounded' by the 
store. volume of sales, but added, "the success of this 
When confronted earlier in the semester with sale convinces me that this is the way to go. 
the possibility of Student Union record store Fr. Roche had a good idea." 
Van Wolvear had been adamant in his rejection. When asked if he would reconsider a record 
According to Curt Hench, record sales stnre in light of the great response to the sale, 
manager, most distribution problems were due VanWolvlear refused to budge from his earlier 
to the tremendous volume of records being position against such a proposal. 
handled. "We only got about 4,500 of 6,000 "I object to student government getting 
records which had been ordered,'' said Hench, involved in a daily business-type operation,'' 
"the wholesalers just didn't have enough in Van Wolvlear said, "I think they can be more 
stock -ours was the biggest order in their responsive to other needs of the students.'' 
history." Van Wolvlear feels the solution rests with 
Over 1,000 students participated in this year's more short-term slaes. He advocates holding 
record sale, buying nearly $22,000 worth of two sales next year, one per semester, and 
records. The Student Union sold all records at judging demand from there. "If we need more 
distributor's cost, and also absorbed advertising (sales), I'm not against it," he said, adding "we 
and shipping fees. need to get more catalogues next year." 
Students who did not receive all of their Managers of the present sale voiced their 
records can have them back-ordered, or can opt objections to Van Wolvlear's limited proposal. 
for refunds. "Refunds will be available today, layton stated "it would be impossible for us to 
tomorrow, and the week after break,'' said have another sale at cost. We have to meet the 
co-managerJim Clayton, adding, "back-ordered approval of our distributor." Roche pointed out 
records will also be in the week after break.'' the "inherent liabilities of waiting and crowd­
Any defective records, save cut-outs, will be ing" associated with a week-long venture. Said 
reJ>Iaced free of charge if brought in the week Clayton, "Even with all the manpower we had, 
after break. there was no way we could keep up with the flow 
Bill Roche, Student Union director, said he of orders. ' ' 
was very impressed with the size of the sale, "Ifwe can handle a sale like this in a week, we 
adding, "I think the response unquestionably can handle a store for a year.'' Nevertheless, he 
shows that a (permanent) record store is said there was the possibility of some type of 
justified." sale in the future, but not again this year. 

new approach to religion 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Among 
the sin fits and flesh pots along 
Liberty Avenue, a place called 
the Store House of Love would 
not at first seem out of charac­
ter. 
After all, it shares the street 
with a dozen skin flick houses, 
massage parlors, sex device 
emponums and bookstores that 
cost a quarter to enter. 
But the Store House of Love 
isn't peddling sex. 
"We're here to introduce 
.Jcsus Christ to the people of 
Liberty Avenue," says Jim 
Deglau, a born-again Christian 
who opened the humble mis­
sion in the garish neighborhood 
10 months ago. 
Since hundreds frequent the 
saloons and peep shows every 
night, Dcglau figures his opera­
tion is like shooting fish i_n a 
barre' 
Wednesday, March 14, 1979 -page 3 

Firing squads execute former Shah supporters 
TEHRAN Iran (AP) -Firing panies April 1. Recently, oil squads executed two generals, has been sold on a spot basis to a legislator, the former head of the highest bidder. Spot prices the national news agency and are in the range of $20 a barrel eight other men yesterday in compared to the OPEC price of the purge that has killed dozens $13.55.­of former supporters of Shah The new defense minister, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. Gen. Ahmad Madani, told a 
Eleven men were killed by news conference here that Iran firing squads in Tehran and one no longer was willing "to act as in the holy city of Qom, 100 policeman of the Persian Gulf miles to the south, after secret and Indian Ocean." trials without defense attor­Madani accused the Shah of neys. The announcement of the squandering money on the mili­executions were made in a radio tary and bnnging in thousands broadcast. of "spies disguised as foreign 
Charges against the 12 experts.'' ranged from corruption to kil­''Except the Shah, his rela­ling anti-Shah demonstrators tives and their agents who and torture. should be court martialed, 
Islamic revolutionary courts members of the armed forces are known to have ordered the should be issued with a general execution of 57 persons, in­pardon for any wronggoing cluding 12 generals, for alleged except those responsible for political and sex crimes since shooting anti-Shah demonstra­the Shah's government fell tors," he said. Feb. 12. The Shah is exiled in The Cabinet is planning to Morocco. ask the leader of the revolution, 
There were indications that Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the new government is suc­to. grant such an amnesty, he €eeding in bringing the econ­said. omy back to life. The National He also said a naval air base Iranian Oil Company announ­being built with American as­ced production in the country's sistance at the port of Chah­oil fields had reached 2. 5 Bamar on the Sea of Oman was million barrels a day last week. a waste. ''The original con­
Before anti-Shah strikes par­tract was going to cost Iran $70 alyzed the economy, Iran ex­million, but then the cost was ported about 6 million barrels hiked to $4 billion and then to daily. The company said all but $6.5 billion," he said. "We 700,000 barrels daily was ear­have abrogated this contract marked for foreign consump­now. " tion. Also yesterday, a rally at 
The company said it will Tehran University drew 40,000 resume selling Iranian crude on young Iranians, who con­a contract basis to American, demned Mideast peacf; efforts European and Japanese com-[Continued on page 12] 
People interested in a position with next year's 




HUNGER COALITION 
(Coordinator, Secretary, Treasurer, etc.) 



. __. __ ·~~-~~:,.­

The Observer Wednesday, March 14, 1979 -page 4 

-----~---­
The Observer 


Saint Mary's students petition in motion to boycott Nestle's 

AlutnniAssociation elects board tnetnbers 
Members of the University of in 1974. Notre Dame Alumni Associa­Others named to the board tion have elected six new include Clement J. O'Neill, a directors to serve three-year San Diego attorney who is terms. The national board founder and president of the represents more than 60,000 Lawyers Divion of the San alumni. Diego Thomas More Society; 
Named director-at-large, a Paul W. Kruse, Edina, Minn., position reserved for graduates principal staff scientist for of the last five years, is john D. Honeywell Corporate Techno­
Short, director of development logy Center and a Fellow of the for Cathedral High School in A:nerican Physical Society; Indianapolis. He is a member John J. Kean, Fenton, Mich., of the Indiana University Bar executive vice president of Association and has been active Shue & Voeks, Inc., and presi­
in a number of Notre Dame dent of the Notre Dame Club of activities since his graduation Flint. 
• 
supported the decison of the students. 
Saint Mary's organizers are aiming for 900 signatures sup­porting the act~on. Garvey satd that 700 signatures have al­ready been recorded. She has not determined if the SMC administration will support a boycott if 900 signatures are obtained. 
The boycott of Nestle's prod­ucts at Notre Dame is now in full effect, according to senior food services director Robert Robinson. 
Robinson said that all pur­chases of Nestle's products were terminated as of March 6. Items on hand will continue to be used until they are depleted. Approximately ten items are covered by the boycott. Use of Nestle products m university vending machines has also ceased. 
According to Robinson, the cost of the boycott has not yet been determined. Bidding is under way to find approponate replacements for the Nestle products. When the replace­ments are chosen, the cost can be determined. 
Wednesday, March 14, 1979 -page 5 



Se!!!~' Clo.ss Officers--:-') 
Soph~m ~:e Class Officers Judicial Cootdinotot JimO'Hrue Bengal Bout Chomp mo.tt O'Brien I 
~invited 3draftsfor $1.00' 8-12 _) 
· byJohn Hogan 
Students of Saint Mary's Collegewillhave the opportunity to support the World Hunger Coalition-sponsored boycott of Nestle's products Maria Garvey WHC coordinator said yester­day. 
The Notre Dame student body overwhelmingly endorsed the recent referendum calling for a boycott of Nestle products by the University. Sponsored by the WHC, the action was propelled by Nestle's market­mg of infant formula in under­developed countries. Critics charge that the formula, be­cause it is expensive and diffi­cult to use, exploits the low income and low educational levels of these countries. The Notre Dame Administration 




Organized labor tests Carter's wage guidelines 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Organ­ized labor, chargmg that Pres­idents Carter's "voluntary" wage guidelines are illegal, asked a federal judge yesterday to strip the anti-inflation pro­gram of its only penalties. 
The AFL-CIO and nine mem­ber unions filed in U.S. District Court, asking for an injunction to stop the government from denying federal contracts to firms that pay wages exceeding the 7 percent guideline. 
AFL-CIO President George Meany, a strident critic of Carter's anti-inflation program, 
said the threatened penalties turn the "voluntary" program 
into a mandatory 'one, whtch phased out mandatory controls tn 1974, can reinstitute them, he said. 
''It is obvious that the denial of contracts is an enforcement weapon primarily for wage controls, since the price guide­lines are for all practical pur­poses non-existent,'' Meany said at a mews conference. 
The 84-year-old labor leader said Carter has the right to ask the public to ''volunarily do anything the president thinks is right for the country.'' 
"But when he asks employers to 'voluntarily' hold the wages of their employees to 7 percent or less -and then backs that up with the denial of contracts tf employers don't 'voluntarily' go along -then he has instituted a 'mandatory' program," Meany said. 
He called on the government to help seek a speedy ruling on the suit, which poses a major legal challenge to the heart ot Car­t~r's program for curbing infla­{lon. 
The administration, which has defended the contract denial portion of the program as bein~ legal, indicated yesterday tt would be content to let the matter simmer on the back burner for awhile. The govern­ment has 60 days to file a response to the suit. Carter's program, unveiled four months ago, seeks to voluntar­ily limit wage and fringe benefit increases to 7 percent a year and to slow consumer price increases this year to about 7. 5 percent. 
To encourage compliance, the· government has said it will deny federal contracts worth $5 million or more to firms that exceed the guidelines. 
The inflation rate last year was 9 percent, and /overnment price reports issue durin~ the last two months indicate mfla­tion this year is runnign above lO percent. The AFL-CIO has opposed Car­ter's pro~ram from the start, claiming tt is unfair to workers. The federation, contending employers are holding down wage increases but not price increases, has called instead for a mandatory and "equitable" system of controls on prices, wagc;s, dividend income, profits and mterest rates. 
Meany, calling Carter's price guidelines a "joke," also said yesterday that the 13.5 million­member AFL-CIO soon will launch a nationwideprice-moni­toring program designed to blow the whistle on companies that exceed Carter's price guidelines. 
Meany said the AFL-CIO was launching its "Price Watch" program because ''there is just no enforcement'' by govern­ment inflation monitors. He said the government does not have enough people "to moni­tor Mobil Oil alone." 

Starting This Week At A Theatre Near You 
Check local for specific theatre listing 
----~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, March 14, 1979--page 6 
SMC Career Development Workshops 
Recruiting Date Name ofOrganization Positions Available Major I Concentration Desired 
Mar. 12 (Mon.). Swift and Co. Sales All Manufacturers Nat'l Bank Staff Accountants Business 
Mar. 13 (Tues.) Miles Lab. Bank Officer Trainee BuEc Nat'l Life and Accident Ins. Commercial Auditor Credit Analyst Mar. 15 (Thurs.) Comptroller of the Currency Roosevelt University Acct. I Science Programmer Bus/ScienceSales Management Trainee 
Liberal Arts, Acct., Bus. 
Ass. Nat'l Bank Examiner Business Lawyers Assistant Program All 
Drivers 
must claim licenses 
All drivers who have left their licenses at the security gate are requested to pick them up before break. Security reports that 70 drivers have left their licenses. 





Celebrate St. Patty's Day 
with 

The Huddle 
~Wffi'/k@>J/;?: ;!"WFC/('T)Moo ?, · 
11 

~.AiiJlJljirjJl~ 
Try a thick &creamy 10¢off Irish shake any item made with mint choc. chip ice cream 1Q¢ off our regular price 


Kelkarney corned beef & swiss on rye 
Thinly shaved corned beef ~....~w.rl'!J. & swiss cheese on 
rye bread w/ our own ''lrish'~'~~~~~~~4S~~~~oc(! cole slaw on the side 


$1.29 

-~-as a VISTA volunteer. Across America your skills in Education, Social Science, Health, Business, Spanish or 
Law can help. Contact: 

Einstein remains alegend 
(AP) -Across the world, people are pausing to remem­ber a man whose name many have known since childhood but whose work most could never understand in a lifetime. 
His name was Albert Einstein and he was born 100 years ago today. 
His fame is almost as baffling as the theory that catapulted him into history. For he captured the imagination of our time5 in a way few men ever do and no other scientist has ever done. 
He was a quiet, withdrawn child, whose parents feared that he might be backward. When they anxiously consulted Einstein's headmaster about a career for their son, they were told, "It doesn't matter, he'll never make a success of any­thing.'' 
Einstein seemed destined for the failure that hobbled his father. But unknown to those around him, the shy, retiring child who lagged behind his classmates was beginning to show a remarkable curiosity. 
A relative once showed hun a compass. Einstein, like any 5-year-old, was intrigued. But he also silently wondered what unseen forces could be making the needle flicker and move · and he later wrote that was the moment he began wondering about the universe. 
As a young man at the turn of the century, he was unable to get the teaching job he wanted and became a minor official in the Swill patent office. For years he laboriously wrote re­ports on everything from valves to primitive vacuum cleaners. At night in a back room of his shabby apartment, he searched for the laws governing nature. 
Several years later, rumors of a remarkable series of discov­eries began ro trickle through classrooms and laboratories. A clerk nobody had heard of was publishing articles that were demolishing concepts of time, space and matter on which science had rested for cen­turies. 
With a handful of equations and formulas, Einstein stated that time was relative, that it existed only in relation to physical matter. If everything in the universe were to disap· pear, so would time itself. The implications were shattering. 
Just when many scientists believed they had reached the boundaries of knowledge · as others had believed in other ages . relativity swept them into a vast universe of almost un­thinkable complexity. 
Einstein also demonstrated that gravity was a field in space and not a force exerted by the earth, that light was composed of quanta or particles, and a dozen other equally astounding revelations. 
Even the greatest minds had to struggle to understand rela­tivity. But there were few scientists who did not realize that an age had ended. 
By 1921, Einstein's work had been recognized with a Nobel Prize. 
The excitement and contro· versy of relativity was to go far beyond the rarified realm of science. When in 1919 astron­omers confirmed some of Einstein's basic premises, newspaper headlines trum­peted that the world would never be the same again. · 
For centuries men had stared out into the eternal, forboding darkness of the universe. And now a scruffy, almost comical little man was quietly uncov­erin~ its secrets with a flourish of hts pencil. 
Einstein became an almost mythical figure whose every moment was followed by a rapt world. In the 1920's thousands of lectures on relativity were packed with curious, excited 

throngs. 
The Observer 
HPC discusses drug problems 
by Aileen Lavin StaffReporter 
Peggy Cronin, Alcohol and Drug counsellor at the Student Health Center, met with the HPC last night in Morrissey Hall to discuss her upcoming project for alcohol awareness. A professor from Minneapolis will be coming to Notre Dame April 5 and 6 to conduct sessions discussing the prob­lems of alcohol on college campuses. 
''lie will explain the process o~ow college encourages des­tructive ~r.in~ing an~ allows it to happen, sa1d Croom. 
Cronin was encouraged by student care for each other in dealing with alcohol abuse. "Students are caring enough to confront others when they see destructive drinking,'' she said. ''They are making obser­vations and getting concerned enough to talk about it out loud--they are taking it serious­ly.'' 
There will be four sessions held on April 5. The first one will address the Administra­tion, the next will be addressed to student leaders and the last two will be open to all the students and will include a "show and tell" session where the students will have a chance w role play and actually partici­pate. Crowley's program will end on the next day with a question and answer session. Prior to this program, students who have already dealt with alcohol problems either within themselves or those of a mem­ber of their family will be communicating theu experi­ences through student publica­tions. 

Fr.Dunne 
to lecture on prayer 
Fr. John Dunne, professor of theology at Notre Dame, a widely recognized theologian and teacher, will lectUre on ''The Meaning of Prayer'' in Howard Hall today at 7:00 p.m. 
All interested members of the campus community are invited to this lecture which is 
being  sponsored  by  the  
Religious  Commission  of  
Howard Hall.  

Kaufman 
to discuss human rights 
Members ofamnesty interna­tional and other interested students are invited to an informative discussion with Eddy Kaufman, member of Amnesty International's Exec­utive Council tonight at 8:30 in Grace Basement Lounge. Dis­cussion will be open to any question on human rights, Am­nesty activities or politics in 
Wednesday, March 14, 1979 -page 7 



general. 
Wednesday, March 14, 1979 -page 8 
Editorials 
P. 0. Box Q 

Tiredof sports reporting 
All right, enough is enough. We're sick and tired of some of these sports reporters making their so-called ''expert'' predic­tions about collegiate athletic events. Craig Chval' s recent article expressing his opinions on the Eastern regional of the NCAA basketball tournament since both of your feet are in was the last straw. In it, Mr. your mouth. Chval heaped endless praise on Our reason for writin& this Duke and North Carolina, and letter is not solely to cmicize the ACC in general. He the author's predtctio~s -any­belittled the quality of Eastern one can make a mtstake m basketball, assuming from the predicting the outcome of a outset of his article that either game. But Mr. Chval, how the Blue Devils or the Tar Heels would you explain a non­would have a cake walk to the descript team like St. John's final four. Well, Mr. Chval, knockmg off the mighty co­after this past weekend, we champions of the Atlantic Coast imagine you're having some Conference, Duke? difficulties speaking, especially We might add that this is not 
Liberation ... Vigor ... Reality in Puebla 
Probably the most obvious message that stands out is that human dignity and COJ1Sciousness of one's rights as a human being with spiritual potential are to be safeguarded. Few chapters are not filled with a warning of the ways that social, political, and economic injustices sup­press human dignity. . Theology ceases to be theoretical, and mingles easily with anthropolog­
ical and sociological data. 
The Latin American Bishops took special note of the chains ofwarm friendshop that bind families and friends, and that bring together those who are suffering, whether from the lack of the basic necessities of life, or from the various types of oppression from within and without their countries. They noted, within their reality, the growing desire of persons to be involved socially and politically in the actions that shape their destiny. 
Quoting Pope Tohn Paul II in his address to the campesinos in Oaxaca, the Bishopos took note in their final document of the workers, the students, and the campesinos who are ''filled with anguish, hopes, and dreams" and who have no voice---have no way of speaking out, or who have been silenced. Fallmg as it does under the heading of ''Pastoral Vision in the Socio-Cultural Context," the message is clear. The Bishops pointed out the reality which exists: "fundamental human rights are not being respected: life,health,education, livelihood, and work. This is a clear violation of the dignity of the human person." Stronger words follow, condemnin~ torture, exile, violation of privacy, as well as mtervention of persons from outside who seek to increase their wealth at the expense of the people of Latin America. 
The ''vigorous ener&y'' phrase used frequently by the Bishops of Latm America was modeled m their listing of the areas of special concern for all those related to the works of ministry. They were urged to recall: 
---the faces of the indigenous people, particular­ly the Afro-Americans who live margmated and often in inhuman situations; 
---the faces of the campesinos, who live as al­most a part of the earth that they toil, and are exploited by a variety of commercial systems; 
---the faces of the workers who continuously struggle to defend their ri~hts; 
---the faces of the margmated inner-city folk, who have the double impact of their own needs and the sight of riches all ·around them; 
---the faces of the unemployed and the under­employed who suffer from the cold economic calculations which impinge upon themselves and their families; :--the faces of the youth who have difficulty find­ing their elace in society' and are frustrated by the lack of work and education; 
---the faces of the children who suffer the blows ofpoverty which often leave them incapacitated· physically and mentally; ---the faces of the elderly, each day more numer­ous, who are set aside as persons who are no longer productive. 
The message rang loud and clear. The pastoral vision of Latin America must be centered on social ministry and justice. Without this centering there is no authentic gospel message (pope John Paul II)_ 
Dt. Helen Volkomener, sp 
(Executive Director 

Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry) the first time that Duke has fallen to St. John's this year. Over Christmas, in the ECAC Holiday Festival Tournament at Madison Square Garden, the then #1 -ranked Blue Devils lost to these same Redmen, in a game which "Wrapped up a last place finish for them in the tournament, comprised pri­marily of these "weak" Eastern teams. One might argue that holiday tournaments of this nature are not very important, since the games are not lea_gue encounters. Thus, you mtght term Duke's loss a fluke. 
Well, there are no more important games than those in the NCAA tournament, so Duke should have hardly broken a sweat in brushing aside an Eastern team like St. John's, who plays a ''suspect'' schedule. In light of this weekend's game, we think it would be more fitting to say that Duke, along with Mr. Chval, choked on the Big Apple. 
A similar fate awaited the other ''ACC giant'', North Car­olina. Mr. Chval didn't even list Penn as a non-descript in his article, so we guess that makes their victory over Dean Smith's #3 -ranked Tar Heels all the more impressive. And the fact that both of these giants were slain on a so-called "neutral" court in the heart of North Carolina eliminates the excuse that the Eastern teams had a home court advantage. 
Finally, we would like to address Mr. Chval' s brilliant statement that ''An all-star team made up of the other eisht teams probably couldn't gtve Duke or North Carolina a good game." The author's obvious expertise is demonstrated in th1s outlash at Eastern basket­ball. If this game ever does come about, at least Duke and 
.. ANO CHINAS LIMITEP AC!lON IN V167NAM 
Cf)(JU) MVE BEEN CXJM­PI£!EI.Y AWJJ/S)HAP ff NCIT BeEN R:JR VIeTNAM'S IIRIITAL INVA5KJN OF 7HC 
PE':OPI.E OF CAMlm41 
-.......... 

North Carolina will have plenty of time to get ready for it; since they've been eliminated from the NCAA championships. 
You're right, Mr. Chval. The ACC will see more tournament action this year -both Duke and North Carolina will have a nice view of the games from in front of their TV sets, watching the "pitiful" Eastern teams battle for the championship. 
jim Giblin john 0 'Sullivan 

C>utofrlaebondage of ignorance 
Dear Editor: 
Because of the nature of this subject and for other obvious reasons, I must request that you publish this letter anony­mously. 
. I would like to express a smcere commendation to the four members of the Gay Stu­dents of Notre Dame who displayed such coura~e and intelligence in appeanng on public television last Tuesday and VVednesday evenings (March 6 and 7) to plead their cause. It was a giant step forward for humankind-and out of the; bondage of ignorance, despatr, shame and injustice. 
I, for one, plan to will all of my monetary assets to this campus organization, to be used to educate the Notre Dame community in the beauty, the worth and the plight of these individuals. 
~orne day, God willing, and I beheve He does a letter like this will not ha~c to be pub­lished anonymously. 
Notre Dame Staffer 


either .Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD 
reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is an independent newspa­per published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration 
as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Edito~ ............ Ray 0 'Bnen opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chns Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions· and Executive Editor ...... Barb Lang henry Photo Editor ......... ~ .Doug Chnstian leuers are the views of lheir authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mills Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cacld_? Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin 
bers of the community, and the free Saim Mary's EditoF ...... FJien Buddj Business Manager ........ john Tuck.er expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ &b Rudy pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mik.e Lewis 
.. 

, 

-
Features 
Wednesday, March 14, 1979 -page 9 
Theatre Review 
Spring's Awakening and The Celestial Cow 
Chris Stewart, Features Editor 
embarrassed whenever someone make an example of Melchior's overt The biggest flaw of the entire"Spring's Awakening-A Childhood turned over the Queen of Hearts with decadence by denouncing him tn front production was its length. It was ~ Tragedy'' is a semi-humorous, semi­the low cut dress." Midway through of everyone. True fascist that he is, excessively long, almost three andtragic look at the conflicts pervading the play, he laments, "It is shameful Sunstroke never allows Melchior the one-half hours, with intermission.
the lives of several adolescent school­to have been a man and not know ?PPOrtunity t~ ?efend his thesis; Although some of the best scenesboys. Set in a boarding school in the most human thing." Moritz was tnstead, he ms1sts that Melchior came at the end (Wendla's burial, theGermany during the turn of century, speaking here of a woman's love, "speak only when spoken to", which confrontation between Moritz and
Frank Wedekind's play examines the was doomed to is since vitriolic
something he never never, Sunstroke's Melchior in the cemetary, the entrance foibles and frustrations of adoles­
experience. outbursts never permit the young boy of the Masked Man), the power ofcence, the social forces contributing to Preceeding his suicide, he spurned to defend himself. He was con­those scenes was diminished by thethese frustrations and how these lads 
demned. play's inordinate length. I wasdealt with their problems of academic an offer for a romantic interlude with restless, as were others, and some­achievement and sexual awakening. the ravishing, earthy lise. She asked Melchior's parents, while discus­what weary. 
Moritz to come to her place; he refused, sin~ the implications of Melchior's
The most ostensible theme in the Good theatre, to be effective, should
lying to her by exclaiming he had actlons, agree that he must go to the
play is conflict, especially the sexual seldom exceed two and one-half hours, 
Greek homework. By this time, he was reformatory. Herr Gabor, Melchior's
conflict that is encountered as they including intermission. Beyond that a
already expelled. His anguish and father, feels that the reformatory will
leave behind the innocence of youth play is emotionally tedious and intel­
despair poured out furiously once lise provide the necessary discipline for his 
and enter the netherworld of sexuality. lectually exhausting. Secondly, the
departed. son, conveniently alleviattng himself
The conspiracy of silence around sex is tempo dragged repeatedly at nmes.
from that responsibility. Once again,
insured, as the establishment figures " .. .I will smile when they talk of lust-I Some of the shorter scenes involving
the adolescent is never understood,
(parents and teachers) do everything will-scream! Scream! To be you, lise! the special slide projections (Venus,
but merely judged according to the
in their power to keep the children Phallic! Unselfconscious! That's what et al) of the women on the floor was
illusory ideals of people _playing god in 
from knowing the truth about their takes my strength away! That ha.PPY difficult to decipher, given the general 
a world full of ravaged tnnocents.
burgeoning sexuality. Teachers at the child, that child of nature-that htde seating. It would have been more
The sexual scenes involving the
boarding school want sterile, disci­whore on my path of misery!" effective had the pictures directly
group masturbation in the reforma­
plined scholars while the parents of Compounding the incipient trauma faced the middle audience, rather than Wendla and Melchior, the two ill-fated accompanying this budding adolescent tory, Wendla's abortion, and the outward, thus giving the audiences
tender love scene between the two
lovers, have their respectability to sexual consciousness ace the problems seated at the sides of the stage a better
homosexuals Henschen and Ernst near 
uphold. Like most enchanted, and glimJ?Se of the feline beauties.
of fear and ignorance. Here, Wede­
curious, adolescents, the schoolboys the end of the play, were all handled Thtrdly, was a recurring
kind offers some poignant scenes, there
tastefully and with surprising power.
unconscious interest in their sexuality whereby the viewer shares parental leaking sound, similar to water splash­
During these scenes, a few in the 
is incrc.-asingly stifled, especially consternation toward their own chil­ing in a bucket. This sound came from Moritz'; while the society says sex is dren's sexual awakening. In a very audience became squeamish, especi­the roof. I ke~;>t thinking it was a
ally one woman near me whose
taboo, the young ones are anxious to comic scene, Wendla pursues her Celestial Cow wtth ~;>oor kidneys. I do 
incessant head motions (back and
find out for themselves. To para-mother (Frau Ber~man) in quest of not make this crincism of the play
forth) made me wonder if she was not
P. hrase George Carlin, they answers to the d1lemma of ''where directly, but this sound (whatever It 
'WANNA." getting too involved in the play. Her
babies come from.'' Not satisfied with was) certainly detracted from the total
husband, seated next to her, blushed
The terrible ambiguity of adoles­the Stork story, Frau Bergman stiffly impactof the play. Whoever is in
and giggled during the reformatory
cence is wonderfully captured in the consents to divulge the facts of life to charge of maintenance of the roof at 
scene; no Tarzan is he, I thought. 
brilliantly portrayed character of her daughter. W endla is verbally O'Laughlin, take not. I'd strongly Moritz. This poor incompetent is initiated into the secrets of sexuality The most touching scene, which suggest he step with care while up neither an academician nor a lover; with this lame explanation: ''You encompassed the two opposing urges there. And wear boots. yet, he finds himself immersed in both must love your husband-love him very of the adolescent-absolute control by The highest accolades must go to 
of these enterprises, each of which much with your whole heart-in a way mind and absolute abandonment to the Tim Grothaus, for his charming, terrifies him to no end. His numerous that can't be put into words!" senses-involved Moritz and lise. humorous and thoroughly convincing 
Meeting lise in the woods, after his
anecdotes l'rovided consistent comic portrayal of the desultory Moritz. relief, particularly during scenes of The irony here, of course, comes expulsion I the despondent Moritz Close behind Tim comes Elizabeth overblown seriousness. later. After Wendla's sexual initiation S,Purns the free-spirited lise's invita-Leahy, for her depiction of the naively with Melchior, and subsequent l?reg­tton to ''come home with me.'' Rather trusttng Wendla. John Davenport, Early in the play, referring to his nancy, Frau Bergman is infunated than give in to his impulses (his playing Melchior, visually reminded studies, Moritz inquires: "Why are with her daughter, histrionically asking: screaming sexual urgency) Moritz me on several occasions of Zeffereli's we examined?"; he then answers: "Why have you done this to me?" 'ro dejectedly responds by lying to lise Romeo. His passionate depiction of "So we can fail." Another time, he which the poor, ignorant W endla that he has homework to do. Once Melchior, particularly the graveyard remarked how fervently he "prayed replied: "I haven't done anything to again, mind conquered flesh, further­scene at the end (weeping for his lost that God lets me get consumption" you... Oh, God I don't know anymore ... ing the alienation Moritz already felt in Wendla) was the most stirring scene in rather than have to take a dreaded I've never loved anyone in the world, his deepest heart. the play. Barb Klein, (as lise), Michael final exam. Then, ecstatic over the except you, Mother." Wendla later Scott as the Albert Einstein/Schweit­
It is then that he mourns the love he 
results, Moritz bursts out with the full dies, the result of a botched abortion. zer look-a-like (Headmaster 'Sun­
will never know; shortly thereafter,
jubiliaton of a job well done: ''The Her mother explains Wendla's death stroke) and Patrick Fannin~ (Masked
he is dead, a victim of his own
world can go to hell-I passed!" This as caused by anemia. Man) provided some arresung perfor­
emotions, a victim of sociai conven-­
joy is short lived as he soon flunks out mances, as did Jeannie T. O'Meara of school. He is consumed by his lust The repression of the sexual urge is tions which doom the individual from (Frau Bergmann), Cathy Hurst (Frau 
most viv1dly manifested in the ever achieving full autonomy. The
but is incapable of achieving sexual scene Gabor), Joe Chase {Herr Gabor), Jeff 
gratification. involving Melchior and the boarding only hope for human emancipation is Mousseau (Hanschen), and Raythrough rebellion, but Moritz opted for 
school professors. Outraged by his McGrath (Ernst).
Poor Moritz sufferd an interminable term paper, entitled "On Copulatton", pity, resignation, then despair, which A great hurrah for the ND-SMC ''masculine itch''. He reminisced culminated in his death-a gun blast
Headmaster Suns•roke embodies the Theatre group. just make sure thatabout "when I was five, I got quasi-moralistic teacher who must which decapitated him. Cow is gone by the next production. 
Every Which Way But Loose Ted Nitric-Stoney Lives 
Constipation and The Death of Rock and Roll 
Joe Ryan
Let me get serious with you for a look back to the early 1970's, when the EMERSON, LAKE and PALMER-­moment. What do you take when you Top 40 songs were good music, and Emerson, Lake and Palmer JOHN DENVER--Rocky Mountain High have ... constipation? You know--every people could admit that they listened to GORDON UGHTFOOT--Summer Side of NEIL DIAMOND--Hot August Night which way but loose? It's something you AM radio. Two years in particular, 1971 Life EAGLES--Eagles should consider. Everything should be and 1972, brought us what I consider the JETHRO lUll--Aqualung EMERSON, LAKE and PALMER-­considered when making everday deci­best music ever produced. PAUL MCCARTNEY--Ram Trilogy Sions. In '71 and '72, Gordon Lightfoot put DON McCLEAN--American Pie DAN FOGELBERG--Home Free 
Such was the train of thought when I out his best two albums, as did Jethro JONI MITCHElL--Blue JE1HRO lUll--Living in the Past decided to do a record review. They can Tull and the Moody Blues. MOODY BLUES--Every Good Boy JETHRO lUll--Thick As A Brick get boring--I knew that. I generally stop The two year span included first Deserves a Favour hLTON JOHN--Don't Shoot Me (I'm reading when they go into each song's efforts by Dan Fogelberg, America, CAT STEVENS--Teaser and the Firecat Only the Piano Player) 
ELTON JOHN--Hooky Chateau 
"best part", and tell you: Jackson Browne, Don Mclean, Harty JAMES TAYLOR--Mud Slide Slim ''Oh, man, I just was in total ecstasy Chapin, the Eagles, Emerson, Lake and 11-IREE DOG NIGHT--Golden Bisquits GORDON UGHTFOOT--Don Quixote when Ted Nitric-Stoney went into that Palmer, Steely Dan, Loggins and Mes-1972 LOGGINS AND MESSINA--Loggins and 
Messina

ACDB#FGbDEACDBAvCADE#CG~ sina and Jim Croce. · 
MOODY BLUES--Seventh Sojourn 
riff. And then those lyrics--they define a Just an overview, then: AMERICA--Homecoming CARLY SIMON--No Secretsnew era: 'Roses ace red, baby, Violets BREAD--Baby l'm-A Want You SIMON AND GARFUNKEL--Greatest
are blue, Sugar is sweet baby, baby, 1971 JACKSON BROWNE--Saturate Before Hits
baby, and so are you.'' Using STEELY DAN--Can't Buy a Thrill
What I'm going to present. is ~ little AMERICA--America HARRY CHAPIN--Sniper and Other 
-
NEIL YOUNG--Harvest
different. It's absolutely fascmanng. _ HARRY CHAPIN--Heads and Tales Love SongsThe direction that music has been CROSBY, STillS, NASH and YOUNG--CHICAGO--Chicago V taking in the past few years has been 4-Way Street JIM CROCE--You Don't Mess Around 
See how far we've sunk? 
kind of depressing. It makes me often DOORS--L.A. Woman With Jim 
~~~j~"·"jr.~:·
... 

,---­
The Observer Wednesday, March 14, 1979 -page 10 
........ _ 

PLO aids Am.in in Ugandan invasion 

NIAROBI* Kenya (AP) -"No matter what the sacri­Ugandan President ldi Amin fice, the armed forces are announced last night that Pal­determined to crush the aggres­estinian soldiers were fighting sors," Amin said. He descri­alongside Ugandan troops in bed the enemy occupying partthe battle to drive out Tanzan­of southern Uganda as "agentsian invaders. of imperialism, racism and 
Amin, in a Uganda govern­Zionism.'' ment radio broadcast monitored Diplomatic sources estimate in Nairobi, also claimed Israeli the Libyans at 1,400 men and 
soldiers and mercenaries were the Palestinians were believed 
fighting on the side of the to number in the hundreds. Tanzanians. Neutral sources in East Af­There has been no indepen­rica with access to top-level
dent conformation available of intelligence reports said Amin claims made by either side. appears increasingly capable of Amin put the number of carrying out his boast that he'll 
invaders at 40,000, double his win the 4-month-old war that previous estimate. Most inde­started when he invaded and pendent observers believe the tried to annex part of north­figure is far lower, perhaps no western Tanzania. more than 8,000 Tanzanians The sources said Amin' s and anti-Amin Ugandan exiles. augmented military strengthAmin is believed to have about could make itself felt within a an equal number of defenders few wc;ek, although intelligence around Kampala, the Ugandan reports say that for now, the capital. Tanzanians are advancing
The radio reported what it slowly on Kampala from the said was Amin's speech open­south. ing a conference of the 34-By most accounts, they are 
nation Islamic Development berween 50 and 75 miles from 
bank in Kampala. Kampala. 
Rome program to focus on architecture , art 
The Eternal City will be the the principal cities of Tuscany.It it only stretched a little further Holy Cross students would have an easy short cut across laboratory and tts art and It is cosponsored by the 
the lake without getting their feet wet. [photo by Mark Ricca] architecture the text for a Departments of Architecture University of Notre Dame and Art for students or non­summer program to be held in students who need not speak 
Rome, Italy. Italian and may choose to
r----------------·I
1 any Un0€RqRa0 llv1nq 0~~-campus 
"Architecture and Urban­supplement intellectual enrich­ism--The City and Its Art" is ment with academic credit. 
ln€xt Y€aR 1s €t1q1sl€ to B€ th€ 1979-SCI .. . Kreskin theme of this year's Notre The program will be offered Dame summer program. The in rwo parts: a rwo-week ses­couse will offer a variety of sion from June 18 to 30 will
I I 
educational experiences cover the periods in art and
lcontinued from page llJ
I I through wide-range field excur­architecture history from
claimed. ''The keys to this 
sions and on-site inspection Etruscan to Early Renaissance. 
I I phemonenon are willingness studeis. The program will focus A four-week session fromJuly 2
and imagination." According 
on the City of Rome and its to 30 will cover the periods from 
I I to Kreskin, noone is ever environs and include a five-day High Renaissance to Late Baro. 
hypnotized. He is wide awake·, 
I I field trip to Assisi, Florence and que.
but under the power of sugg~es·
1 applications avatlasl€ 1n th€ I tion. 
Kreskin proved his point by taking 35 people from the
I Stubalt (jov€1IDm€Jlt orr•ce I 
audience displaying how his 
... Title IX

suggestions could react uponI I them. The funniest example1 2n0 ~looR lafoRtun€ I was_ Kreskin's suggestion of [continued from page 2} quick to point out that for the 
music. He made the subjects designated as a period where majority of schools, football is
1 m~ch161 
have a violent aversion to the schools can send their reactions not a revenue-producing sport. I (:oR ruRth€R 0€tatls contact john ~ltzpatRICk I music of Chopin, at the same to the guidelines before they Financial surveys by the 
time convincing them that 
are made into law. NCAA in 1977 said that of the 
I 7668-277-2874 I "Chopsticks" was the most
.._________________.. 
beautiful piece in the world. 
a special T teat fot Those Stayi-ng latef018teak: € Stub€nt unton Cultu~al ~ts commtss•on V€~Y p~oubly P~€S€fltS ta--~,'ti-'\;:•t~tMIIIIII-'The ffiatquise of 0' 

I:II: ~I a film by Eric Rohmer
111111111111 il!lli I 

Thursdny, ffinrch 15 nt 7, 9:15 nnd 11:30 pm Fridny, ffinrch 16 nt 7and 9:15 
-
Engineering Aud. ndmission 11.00 

Notre Dame president 4n member institutions, only Theodore M. Hesbursh and the 92 (19 percent) achieved presidents of lnd1ana and revenue equal to their orerat­Purdue Universities issued a ing expenses for footbal . In joint statement last month Division l, only 43 of the 85 asking that revenue-producing "big-time" schools reported sports be excluded. "Unless making money. One school this recognition is given to the reported a loss of $1.2 million. role played by these sports in ''I have considered it ironic," financing the overall athletic said Linda Fortunato, women's program, the continuing devel­athletic director at North­opment of women's and men's western, ''that those institu­sports will be jeopardized,'' tions making a great deal of their statement concluded. money from basketball and 
The argument of these football--like Michigan and schools is that revenue-produc­Notre Dame--complain the ing sports help support the rest most, while most of the schools of the athletic defartment. If a in the red from football, which school spends 1 million on is the majority, are not flapping their football program, to raise their mouths and are trymg to $1 million in revenue, they deal with it as realistically as argue that it is not fair to ex~;>ect they can." the school to put $1 million mto And while the debate con­their women's sports programs tinues, for many schools the that generate no revenue. question of how they are goin~ 
The specific exemption of to meet these requirements if football is especially important and when they go into effect is to many schools, since this is also a major concern. where most schools concentrate their athletic budget. But Tomorrow: How universi#es women's sports , groups are plan to deal with Title IX. 
Wednesday, March 14, 1979 -page 11 

I I I 

... Mideast 
contz.nued from page 1] onday night between U.S. 
ecretary of State Cyrus R. ance and Israeli Foreign Min­ster Moshe Dayan, according American officials. Dayan greed to new language break­·ng deadlocks on crucial issues. Israeli sources said one unre­olved question was Egypt's equest to station milttary iaison officers in the Gaza Strip s the first step toward self-rule or Palestinians there and on the West Bank of the Jordan River. The Gaza issue may prove crucial in deciding Israel's res­ponse. It was on that question that Egypt had sought more than was envisioned in last September's Camp David accords. 
On the oil issue, it was Israel that wanted to move beyond the initial agreement. 
It was uncertain whether the parliament would accept or reject the proposals. But observers said Begin had a majority for his policies at least in the cabinet. 
Much depended upon whether the opposition Labor Party would support the treaty in parliament and whether Begm could prevent hardliners in his ruling coalition from 
rebellin~. 
After the airport meeting in Cr.iro, Sadat waved goodbye to Carter, then walked to a heli­copter without making a state­ment to reporters. 
But the general atmos~here at the airport was elatton. 

ooo to cover any budget deficit recess until at least July 20 to the schools might suffer. meet requirements for state 
"To my knowledge, this is the and federal funding. Options !first time in the country that being considered to shorten I private businesses have come that five-week period include to the aid of public education in longer school days and six-day this manner,'' said Superin­weeks. . J tendent Robert E. Wentz. Teachers expressed mixed 
views on how the strike, whichMost teachers agreed the pay 
.I

was illegal under state law, will . Iincrease was worth striking for affect their relationships with I
but conceded the walkout left a gap in the students' education the students. I 
"I think they will have more lthat vyill be hard to 611. 
i

appreciation, more respect for"I'm glad it's over and I'm their school system and their
happy to be back,'' said Doris . i 
teachers,'' said Dorothy Rob·
Brown. "But it's going to be j
erts.

like starting school after sum­But David Strauss, a high ! • mer vacation." 
school teacher, said: "I think 
Sum:ner vacation is something there's going to be a lot of i neither teachers nor students negative feeltngs. The students are going to see much of this are going to look at us and say, year, said Wentz. He said the 'Look, you broke the law.' It school year will be extended will be difficult for a while, I'm from its normal early June sure." 
Kreskin performs at SMC, displays mental abilities 
}ana Shutt look at one card and then to concentrate on that card. 
The Amazing Kreskin per­Kreskin named the three cards formed in O'Laughlin Audito­chosen. He.also caused them to rium last night befo1 e a capa­rise from the deck without the city crowd of about 300. use of his hands. This drew Kreskin is the world's most exclamations of awe from the famous mentalist and an crowd. authority on E.S.P. (Extra Sen­Kreskin proceeded to spend sory Perception). the majority of the performance 
Kreskin began by explaining reading the thoughts of people that to prepare for a show he in the audience. For one subject must be alone for an hour. he stated the nicknames of the During this period he controls boy's mother and father. his mind and his muscles to the The "check affair" immedi­extent that he can slow his ately preceded a short intermis­heartbeat to 22 beats per sion. Kreskin appointed a minute. committee to hide hts paycheck. 
Kreskin acquainted himself If he could not find it, he said he with the audience by joking, would forfeit his pay for the ''I'm going to follow the show performance. The committee with two things: first a seance chose to hide the check in a wall and then an orgy.'' This decoration above Kreskin' s brought a great howl from the head. This was done while the audience. mentalist was back stage. 
The first demonstration of his After ten minutes of frantic mental abilities, was a card searching, using a chair, he trick. Kreskin chose three took down his pay to a standing assistants from the audience. A ovation from the audience. deck of cards was passed "Hypnosis is a farce." Kreskin among them. Each was told to [continued on page lOJ 
I;­-------­
I I RIVER CITY I I RECORDS I I I .,
I 
·I 

South Bend's Largest Record I and Tape Selection 
I 

I I 
I $1.00 OFF .\
coupon
I 

SI 00 off any album or rape with this coupon. Limit 1. Now rhru April!!. Nor good on cur-ours, imports or other sale items. Coupon must be presented before purchase is rung into cash register. 
1 eND-SMC check accepted for up to $20.00 over punhase amounr.
I 

eJ7 ,(X){l albums and tapes in stock now 1 -.x.11y wait 10 choose from a small selection? River City Rewrds probably ha~ it in sHx:k 
, I now. 
River City Records 50970 u.s. 31 N 13milesnorth ofcampus. Open 10 to 10,
1 I 
7davs a week 277-4242 • 
~-~-------------­
Officials and even security men wore large grins and slapped each other on the back. 
An apparent negotiating deadlock was broken eight days ago when the Israeli Cabinet accepted U.S. suggestions on three knotty issues. Carter said Sadat added his acceptance during the president's Middle East visit. 
Begin agreed to give the latest U.S. compromise terms to his cabinet at his breakfast meeting with Carter. 
Later, Begin said he declined Carter's request that he recom­mend the proposals to his cabinet. The prime mi:oister said he did not want to ttlt the balance, preferring that each minister vote freely. 

Wednesday, March 14, 1979 -page 12 
Former cult leader cotntni ts suicid.e 
MODESTO, Calif. (AP) -A former Peoples Temple leader shot himself in the head yester­day only minutes after com­plaining ofFBI and CIA harass­ment in connection with the cult's murder-suicide ritual in Guyana, police said. 
Mike Prokes, a former top aide to Temple leader Jim Jones and one of 80 American survivors of the Jonestown tragedy, was reported in grave condition at Modesto Hospital. 
Sgt. Dallas Scott of the Modesto Police Department said Prokes shot himself imme­diately after a news conference. 
Reporters said Prokes, 31, read a five-page statement dealing with the murder-suicide last November 17 that left more than 900 persons dead, includ­ing Jones. 
Additional details of Prokes's news conference were not 
• immediately available. Reporters said Prokes excused himself and walked into a nearby restroom. They said the next thing they heard was the shot. 
In an interview last Decem­ber, Prokes said the Jonestown tra~edy was locked in his mind. "Ttme can't even heal some­thing like that," he said. 
''It's just a legacy of death. I feel .the most profound sadness I've ever felt in my life. It will stay with me but I know I can function with it," he· added. 
Prokes was a former televi­sion reporter in Stockton, Calif., and had handled public relations for the Temple six years ago after setting out to prepare an investigative ·story on the Temple and Jones. 
In Guyana, he handled liaison duties with the Guyanes governement and helped put together a once-a-week radio show extolling the virtues of the agricultural community called Jonestown. 
...Iran 
[continued from page 3] by President Carter and Egyp­tian President Anwar Sadat. Severa! thousand demonstra­tors later marched past the PLO headquarters and the U.S. em­bassy. chanting ''Palestine, Palestine, Palestine, we are united." The PLO headquar­ters ate located in the former headquarters of the Israeli Em­
·bassy. 


Professor Robert Borengasser, SMC economics instructor, wzll leave Saturday for a six-week study ofthe eeonomy ofSottth Africa. [Photo by Cate Magennzs] 
Students to pick-up 

S.U. RECORD SALE 
Time 12:00-5:00 ffion-Thurs 
S.U. Ticket Office 
Sting yout duplicate otdet fotm 



I) 

s 
' 
T 
R 
I 

8 l; 
T 
J 
0 

N 
0-Cpaper 
Any student who has notre­ceived a copy of the off-campus newspaper OFF THE RECORD should pick one up in LaFortune where the Observer is distrib­uted. 
H 

~ 
.ttie
t1me, 
~tve
'fhe
6eer. 


' ' .Einstein 
[continued from page 6] 

The leading London-music hall told Einstein he could name his price if he would top its bill for three weeks. He never replied. On his first visit to America, 111 1921, a bewildered Einstein was chased through city after city by wild, admiring crowds. With more enthusi~sm than success Congress tried to read an explanation of relativity into the Congressional Record. 
To the world Einstein was the ultimate absent-minded profes­sor. People took delight when he once forgot where he lived and had to telephone a friend to 
get his own address.  
Yet Albert Einstein was  far  
more  than  a  scientist.  An  
ardent  idealist,  he  used  his  

fame to plead for peace and brotherhood., But even his friends often found the great man of science embarrasstn~ly naive amid the grubby realities of politics. He was, as one friend said, ''exceedingly straight-forward, honest and childlike.'' 
His hope that the problems of men could be solved as ration­ally as those of science was tossed aside by the horror that began in the 1930's. In 1933 he fled his native Germany after the Nazis, who burnt his works and vilified relativity as a 
Jewish plot, swept to power. From America, Einstein broodingly watched Hitler build 
an empire of despotism, fear, racism, and ignorance. Con­fronted by a greater evil than war, Einstein warned Franklin Roosevelt that Germany was experimenting with a deadly new weapon. At his urging, the United States be~an the experi­ments that culmmated in 1945 with the first atomic bomb. 
For the rest of his life he blamed himself for having helped give humanity the means to utterly destroy itself. After decades of working for peace, he began to retreat into a lonliness that had always set him apart from others and now deepened. 
He confessed to a friend: "I have never belonged to any country, my home, my friends or even my immediate family with my whole heart.'' 
He retreated into his work only to discover that, too, had failed him. The visionary genius that had changed man's understanding had begun to falter before the war and now it dried up altogether. 
For •the rest of his life he produced nothing of conse­quence and he was the first to call himself a ''museum piece.'' 
Yet the world still revered him. In 1952' he was asked to become Israel's president. His simple refusal mirrored the tragedy of his life: "I know a little about nature and hardly anything about man.'' 

~------~--~----­
-----~ 
The Observer Wednesday, March 14, 1979 -page 13 
Schlesinger, court block H-bomb publication 

WASHINGTON  (AP)  
Energy  Secretary  James  R.  
Schlesinger said  yesterday  in  

courc pape1s that the publica­tion of a magazine arcicle on building hydrogen bombs ''would increase the risks of thermonuclear war." 
Schlesinger's affidavit was filed in federal courc in Milwau­kee co supporc the govern­ment's attempt to prevent the Progressive magazine, a monthly, from printing an article on how hydrogen bombs are made. 
Last week, U.S. District Judge Robert W. Warren issued a 10-day restraining order ro block publication ofthe arcicle, and Fnday the govern­ment will ask him to grant a temporary injunction. 
Copies ofSchlesinger's state­ment were made available here. 
Schlesinger said he drew on his experience as chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission from August 1971 to February 1973, as director of the CIA from February 1973 to July 1973, and as secretary of defense from July 1973 to November 1975 in concluding that publication of the article would hurt U.S. security. 
He said the article could make available "to foreign nations secret restricted data pertaining to the desi~n and opeartional characterisucs of a thermonuclear weapon.'' 
Storage available for 0-Cstudents 
Any off-campus student wishing to store property over break should bring it to Stepan Center tomorrow between 3 and 6 p.m. It is important that all items be packed in a closed, taped box and please lock bikes as well. 

Involvedin 9slayings 
Gbicagopolice arrest suspect 

CHICAGO (AP) -Roger Dale Stafford, wanted in the-killings of nine people in Oklahome, was arrested Tuesday night on a Chicago street, a spokesman for the Illinois Department of Law Enforcement said. 
Stafford, 27, was arrested without incident near a police station on the Near North Side after an investigation that lasted a week; said spokesman Les Pauly. 
He said police were tipped by an informant that Stafford was in Chicago. 
Earlier Tuesday, Oklahoma investigators said Stafford has implicated by statements given by his estranged wife in similar cases in ocher states. 
Arthur Linville, Oklahoma State Bureau of lvestigation a~ent, said the statements were g•ven by Verna Stafford, 26, who came to Oklahoma City from Chicago voluntarily as a material witness against Staf­ford. 
Asked whether Mrs. Stafford had given statements linking Stafford to cases similar to the mass killings in Oklahoma, Linville said, "Yes, along that line, but not to the degree of our cases.·· 
John Warren, an FBI spokes­man, said agents were checking leads as a result of Mrs. Stafford's statements and added, "What we are getting looks good. We don't want to say too much on this now, but before this is over I think this suspect may be good for several others around the country." 
Warrants have been issued for Stafford in connection with the killings of six employees of a steakhouse in Oklahoma City on July 16 and the killings of three members of a Texas family south of Oklahoma City of] une 22. Police allege he was aiaed by his brother, who died in a Tulsa motorcycle wreck last 
ye~~-vestigators also alleged Mrs. Sta~ford drove the get­away car In both slayings, but 
was not directly involved in the · killings. Stafford has been charged with the slaying of only one 
cuscody. 

Officials have said charges in connection with the slayings of Air Force Sgt. Melvin Lorenz and his wife, also an Air Force sergeant, and 12-year-old son will be filed in McClain County, Okla., where their bodies were found along Interstate 35. 
Linville declined to name the other states where information was being forwarded, but offi­cers earlier had listed Indiana Ohio, Wisconsin and Louisian~ as having "developing interest'' in Stafford. 
SG applzcatzons
•
avazlable 
Applications for Commis­sioner positions on the Saint 
employee of the Sirloin Stock­ade and Oklahoma County Dis­trict Attorney Andrew Coats said he would not file the other five first-degree murder charges until Stafford is in Mary's Student Government will be available in the Student Activities office beginning Thursday. They must be returned by Friday, March 30. All students ·are welcome. 


Collegium Musicum performs Renaissance lllusic concert 
The Notre Dame Collegium Musicum, a choral and instru­mental grou~;> for the perform­ance of Renatssance music, will present its first public perform­ance at 8:15 p.m. tonight in Crowley Hall of Music, Notre Dame. The concert, pan of Notre Dame Concert Series, is open to the public without charge. The date of the concert has been moved from the original date of February 14. Dr. Ethan Haimo, assistant pro­fessor of music at Notre Dame and director of the Collegium, organized the group in the summer of 1978. The Colleg­ium comprises a twelve voice choir, vocal soloists, and an instrumental group employing recorders, lute, and viola da gamba. 
Wednesday's program focuses on Franco-Flemish music, both sacred and secular, from the late Fifteenth Century. The concert features several works ofJohannes Ocke~hem, a com­poser whose mustc was highly revered i:-t its day and served as a model for subsequent genera­tions of composers. Works by Ockeghem on Wednesday's program include portions of two polyphonic masses, sung by the Collegium Choir; secular chan­sons performed by the instru­mental ensemble--Melissa Bohl, recorders; Jeff Noonan, lute; and Jeanette Jones, viola da gamba: chansons sung by meo soprano Anita Hampson with instrumental accompan­iment: and "Prenez sur mot," a renowned paradigm of canonic writing performed by the Collegium Choir. 

Other works on the program include "Nymphes des Bois," a lament on the death of Ockeg­hem written by the younger composer Josquin de Prez; secular chansons by busnois and Hayne van Ghizeghem; and an early polyphonic dance by Gulielmus. 
BobHope says,"Help lieepRed Cross ready.'' 

A Public Service ot Thos Newspaper & The Advertrsong Counctl "' 
r~~~ 

~ ~
ESPANOL ESPANOL ESPANOL ESPANOL 
EL CUERPO DE PAZ Y VISTA NECISITAN SU FACILIDAD ~N EL IDIOMA ESPANOL Y SU PREPARACION PARA PODER LUCHAR CONTRA LA POBREZA. 
HAGA UN ANO CON VISTA TRABAJANDO CON CAMPESINOS MIGRANTES Y OTROS POBRES URBANOS Y RURALES AQUI EN LOS ESTADOS UNLPOS 0 TRABAJE POR DOS ANOS EN UN PA[S DEL TERCER MUNDO DE LATINO AMERICA COMO UN VOLUNTARIO DEL CUERPO DE PAZ. 
POR EL TRABAJO MAS DIFICIL QUE USTED PUEDE AMAR1 LLAME AL 
(313) 226-7928 (collec.t) 
0 BUSQUE UN CONSEJERO EN 
The Placement Center 
March 27-29 
~RPSi 
VISTA 

;.:... · 
'' ·...:,~ ,. '\ '.. ·, ., ' " ' . .:; ' 


The Observer -Sports Wednesday, March 14, 1979 -page 14 



Parker stock proves to be 
sound 
•
mvesment 
Molarity 
WHAT HAVE )"DU GOT TO LOSE, BRENDA? IT!5A!I PART oF LIFE; IT'S M4TUii'AL 
I 


BRADENTON, Fla (AP) ­Dave Parker said a year or two ago that his value would be worth more than any stock on the New York Stock Exchange by the 1979 season. 
That's tough to figure since you don't know how many shares person holds, and at what pnce, but if Parker were listed on the big board he wouldn't be a bad purchase. 
Parker, the 27-year-old right fielder of the Pittsburgh Pirates, is reputed to be earn­ing between $1 million and $1. 5 million a year for playing a kid's game named bas"eball. 
The 230-pound Parker doesn't try to kid anybody about his feeling for his finan­cial status, but he insists there are other values that make his life rich. 
"It's a great honor and it gives me a lot offreedom," said Parker of his reported listing as the highest paid player in baseball. "The investments have secured me for life." 
"But I take more pride in the stock as being known as the best player in the game, or one ofthe best players in the game. I get a great deal of satisfaction out of that,'' Parker insisted. 

''Mter all, I had to be good before I could get to be rich," added Parker as rain held up spring training chores at Pirate City, the club's spring training complex. 
"In baseball, a majority of the managers said I was the best all around talent in the game" he said. 
''I think that is what a player really works for. Of course the market for players now is so high and just the fact that thc:y 
Mike Molinelli 

say that I'm the best player m the game has made my value enormous. " 
Parker claimed that recogni­tion as one of the best talents in the game is what he treasured most. Why not? He already has a treasure in the bank in case anyone changes his mind. 
Pittsburgh Manager Chuck Tanner, who thinks all of his players were born to the Hall of Fame and usually describes! them in that vein, finds it difficult to say enough about hisji multitalented outfielder. 
But Tanner reached back in his bag of compliments and came up with one that set the tone. 
''Dave Parker is a Roberto Clemente with muscles," said Tanner, comparing the present day star with the late Pirates' player now in the Hall ofFarne. 
Parker hasn't cracked this list yet, but he's only been the major leagues four full years and his yearly figures are comparable to these former!1 Pirate greats. 
... Interhall 
[continued from page 16] 
Adolph Rupp Conference 
Grace III 6 1 Cavanaugh I 5 2 Flanner I 4 3 Stanford I 4 3 
Nat Holman Conter~·nce 
Sorin II Off Campus VII Grace V Howard II Morrissey III  7 7 6 4 4  1  1 1 2 4 4  
Hank IBA Coufc: reu:..  
Off Campus I Dillon IV Pangborn II Carroll  7 6 5 5  1 1 2 3  

John Wooden Conference 
Holy Cross I 6 1 Grace I 6 1 Alumni I 4 2 Off Campus VIII 2 4 
Purdue 
[continued from page 16] 

After Purdue had beaten Dayton 84-70 to advance to the draw, Rose said, "It would be total miscarriage of justice if our kids have to play and they're giving two byes to New York. 
Now, Rose and the Boiler­makers have to start thinking about Old Dominion, a 61-59 

i overtime winner over Clemson on Monday night.· 
"The practice doesn't any easier. The season been so long," Rose said. "Now we have to scramble find out something about Old Dominion. I do know it's run-and-gun ball club.'' 
One thing is certain, Rose said, and that's how the Boiler­makers will play. 
"We always make a concen­trated effort to get the ball to Joe Barry,'' said Rose of 7­foot-1 center Joe Barry Carroll, who led Purdue with 25 points against Dayton. "When a
I player doesn't manifest that objective, they find themselves 
alongside me on the 
bench.'' 


~he Observer Wednesday, March 14, 1979 -page 15 
All classified ads must be received by 5 00 p.m .. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office wtll accept classifieds Monday through Fnday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
cla~~tlieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the matl.
Classifieds 
Lost or stolen: Ladles size 8brown leather Eloves. Please return to 339 Walsh or

Notices 
ost & Found In the Ad. Bldg. 
Lost : diamond ring, extreme sentimental Sup~ your local used bookstore -stock value. No westons asked. !25 reward. 

up or break. Pandora's Hlsto2 section Julia 41-540 . 
on 2 lor 1sale -Happy Hour Frl art3-6. Behind N.D. Apartments. 2 2342 
Found: Silver Cross Pen In 127 Nieuland. Call 8786.

Swimmers needed! Like to swim? Help a mentally handlcarped child enjoy the 
Lost Wednesday Mornln~-Keys on silver

sport too! Lots o swimmers needed for 
ke~ ring with Initials J M. Please call

the Monday night learn to swim program, 
21 2.

from 7:00-8:00p.m. Vou don't need to be an expert, the pool at Logan Center Is 
Lost: Maroon wallet. alli~ator tyr,

only 5It deep at Its deepest point. Help leather. Please, please call f found.!!
out at the Logan pool tor an hour Monday 7135 or 272-4909
nigh's. If Interested, call Mike 1371 ar Sue 41-4832. 
Lost:"LOONIE VUNIE"ski hat. It has great sentimental value. Cream coloredVISTA with the above print. Please return toLaw grads need to serve as VISTA 

Vunle. 289-5039.

(\'olunteers In Service to America). Interested larmworker law? Community 
Lost: 1brown weight lifting belt with the

:levelopment? lmml~ation law? Many name White engraved on it. Lost In theother areas. Contact ISTA...through the ACC weight room. If found please call
Placement Center. There will be an Mike at 3889.
Information table lnthe Library Con­course, Mar. 27, 28 & 29. SMC on Mar Lost: at the LeMans Formal on Friday, a
27th 
Kodak pocket camera with an electronic flash. Initials P.J.C. on back. Call3652orLEGAL AI DES. Your background or return to 419 Morrissey.

de~ree In law could quality you for 1-year VI TA(Volunteers In Service to America). 
Lost: one brown. fur lined winter coat atprojects In New York. Atlanta, Chicago, Giuseppe's Party on Saturday. PleaseDallas areas. Assist lawyers In tenants' forward any Information to Mark at 1863.

rights, housing legislation, legal research and education, judicial reform. etc. Paid 
COAT MISSNG. Please return white coat

travel.llvlnB allowance. medical benefits. 
taken from St. Mary's rest room in

Contact VI TA...through the Placement February to Sherry Clarke, 135 Madeleva
Center. There will be an Information 
Hall, or call 284-5834.

table In the Library Concourse, Mar. 27. 28 & 29. SMC on Mar. 27th. 
Lost: Black wallet lost In LeMans lobby or parking lot or In 01. The drivers licenseSocial workers are needed tor grassroots and ID's are desperately needed. Pleaseprojects all over the United States. 

return to the desk at LeMans or call1581.

Develop programs In public health, No questions asked. 
housln~. community development, youth counse lng, services for the aging and 
lost: one brown & black tape box

handicapped. Travel, living expenses, containing 10-12 8-Trak tapes. Please callmedical benefits. Contact VISTA... 
Gaorge at 1535 after 11:30 p.m.

through the Placement Center. There will be an Information table In the Library 
Lost: one gold Bulova women's watchConcourse, Mar. 27, 28 & 29. SMC on with metal band and grey face. If found.

Mar. 27th. 
please call 1349. 

ENGINEERS needed In developing na­lions. to build dams, construct wells, bridges. roads and reservoirs. Design electrical Installations & industrial pro-
For Rent 

jects. Contribute to a better world. Contact Peace Corps...throu~h the 
Placement Center. There wII be an House for rent, summer only, close to Information table In the library Con-campus, excellent condition, will accom­course, Mar. 27, 28 & 29. Smc on Mar. 
modale one to five students. For Information contact Greg Cress 287-5361 ,

27th evenings. 
Business grads u~entiy needed for positions In VISTA ( olunteers In Service 
Available for Augaust -five bedroom to America). Travel, living expenses, house -completelv furnished. Call medical benefits. For Information contact 
234-9364 after 5:oo P.M. VISTA...through the Placement Center. There will be an Information table In the Library Concourse, Mar. 27, 28 & 29. 
Wanted

SMC on Mar. 27th. 
Architects/Urban Planners. Your de-
Need ride to NVC area--NJ• New York,~ree/work ex~rience could qualify you or Ll -will share driving and expenses.
or 1-year VIS A(Volunteers In Service to Can leave Thursday. Rob 8532 or 8528
America) positions In communities all over America. Assist In neighborhood Desperately need ride to New York City
planning of projects such as recreation, area tor break. Please call Monica at parks and low-ncome housing. Train 
4-1-4n2. 

community residents In planning. funding and develpment decision making. Paid NEED RIDE HOME FOR MARCH travel.llvlnB allowance. medical benefits. BREAK. GOING WEST ON 1-80 TO :::ES Contact VI T A ...through the Placement MOINES* IOWA. CALL SCOURGE 2136 Center. There will be an Information table In library Concourse. Mar. 27, 28 & Need ride to Buffalo or Niagara Falls for 
29. SMC on Mar. 27th. Spring Break. Will share In all expenses. Call Jean at 8037. 
MAlH & SCIENCE majors. Developing nations In Africa, Asia and South America 
Need ride to St. Louis for break. Call

need energetic Individuals for challenging 
6179.

positions. Monthly living allowance, medical care, paid travel. Must be U.S. 
Need Ride to Cincinnati on Thursd~.

citizen with no dependents. Contact Must make playoff game at 6:oo pm. allPeace Co~s ...through the Placement Chris mo.
Center. here will be an Information table In the library Concourse. Mar. 27, 
Need ride to 2to Penn St. or any ~ts. east

28 & 29. SMC on Mar. 27th. 
on 1-80. Can leave noon, March 1 th. Will share driving & expenses. Call 3506,

NOCTURNE NIGHTFLIGHT, WSND-89 
Steve or Larry.

FM, RENEE REDER FEATURES TIM 
WEISBERG, "NIGHT RIDERI"TO-
Looking for ride to St. Petersburgh forNIGHT AT 12:15. 

two. Wlllln~ to share driving and expenses. Cal 1769. 
Need ride back from Des Moines, Iowa

ost&Found 
after break. Call Rita 5154. 
Need ride to Ft. Lauderdale area forlost (or rather stolen). OK, you took my break, call1219.

wallet from my locker at the rock. I don't 
care about the money, but 1do need the Desperately need ride for 2 people EastID's. So have the decency to return It to (Mass., Conn., N.V.) for break. Please
Lost & Found or me. No questions asked. 
call Steve 8322 or Kathy 5236.

Tim Tedrick -6703. 
Mlnnesot•.: need ride to St. Paul. Call Lost: Thurs. night at the Goose's Nest. A Dathy 3845, can leave Mar. 16 or 15. blue down coat with car keys In the pocket. Call 8446. I need aride to CT., PLEASE -(even N.V. 
City or New Jersey will do -I'm that Found: Last Thurs. nl~ht at Goose's desperate) Call Frank at 5213. Nest: brown, leather, ooded winter jacket. Call 3252. NEED RIDERS TO FLORIDA! 23HII55 
Need ride to Dallas for spring break. Call To Matt and Bob, 
Mary Meg at 8037. Thanks for showing us around South Witch for "TIGER" It busch 01nllnsDining Hall Monday night. · Need ride to Long Island for ~ring break. Vote for Ugly man:
Beth and Patsy Will share In expenses. all John at P.S. Matt you shouldn't read dirty books Penny a vote, and all money goes to 3507. during Lent. charity. Vote! 
Need ride for 2to Ft. Myers, Florida over break. Can leave Wed. Call Brian 1423. 
Need ride to 2 to Maryland -DC area for spring break. Will share expenses and driving. Please call Daren 4-1-4522. 
Need ride to 40 Atlanta, GA. for break. 
Can leave Wednesday afternoon. Call 
4-1-4354 or 1001 . 
Need rides to or throuqh Albany, NV for break. Share$ and dnvlng. Steve 3191. 
HELPII Neid a ride to ustem NY for break. Will share driving and expenses. C1ll Sharon It 4-1-4259. • 
Goin~ sk~ over break? Or just going west I n riders to Colorado. Call John at 1991 
Guitarists/Singers needed for 2 Masses: 5:15Sat. Sacred Heart; 5:00Sun. Keenan. Call Nick 3216 
Saturday, 17th: Ride needed to O'Hare Airport. Call Chris 8583. 
Need ride to Boston. call Cathy 6859 
Riders needed: New Jersey [North), New York City. Call 288-3073. 
Need riders to Indianapolis for the semi-finals -leaving Friday. Call Karen 272-6424 
NEED RIDE FOR JUST ONE PERSON 
BACK TO N.D. FROM CINCINNATI ON 
SUNDAY THE25TH. CALL 81116. 
LOOKING FOR THAT "SOMETHING 
MORE"? DISCOVER THE JOV AND 
SATISFACTION OF CATHOLIC MIS­
SIONARV SERVICE. FOR INFOR.­
MATION• HOW TO BECOME A MIS: 
SIONARV BROTHER• PRIEST OR SIS ­
TEA• WRITE: FRO. ED HERBERGER 
SVD. • DIVINE WORD MISSIONARIES• 
DEPT. ND19. 
For Sale 
1-Homelite chian saw, E-Z-16" bar, 2 chains carryn~ case, good condition. Call after 4:00, 27 -5418 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7 Ralph Casperson 1301 Buchanan Road Niles. 683-2888. 
NCAA finals tickets 3124 & 3/26. 312-991-3839, evenings. 
Tandberg 9000 tape recorder for sale. Excellent condition. $500, firm. 288-6748 
FOR SALE: Ski boots, Hanson , brl&ht blue 3M fits size 8 112 to 10 cost $16 . Last year used one ski week. Mint condition $175. 289-1445. 
Personals 
Driving somewhere over break? Get your car tuned up for safe travelling -George, 3369. 
Mike, NOTICE TO ALL WOMEN 
Thanks for suffering through Merv Griffin THOMAS AHEARNE IS ONE GOOD with us. LOOKING DUDE. WATCH OUT. 
Rich, Have agood time over break! Patsy 
SMILIN' EVES, Don't expect the "Irish" Leprechaun to bring you anymoreJa:"r...Remember, I own the veto!!! ave a nice break-! 'II miss ya! 
Love, "Limits?" 

P.S. I have learned to unpeel gum wrappers! (tee-hee) 
Cricket, The walks on the beach will be quiet without your "chirp". I'll miss you-have a nIce break. 
Love, Raggedy Ann 

To all my friends! Farewell and have a wonderful break. Don't worry I'll stay here and hold down the fort. 
Bye-Bye 

Ryan (alias Apollo, Sourdou~h, Captain Video Moonie, Tip, Fearson earson ...) 
HEY CHICAGO -ND -SMC PEOPLE! Emerald Isle Pub, 21 East Pearson Thurs. March 22 after 8 p.m. Break up your break and party hardy! 
Spring Break $$$$$ Help wanted stripping woodwork In old house in South Bend. $3.00 per hour. Need several ~uys to work during Spring Break. Call 2 2-5808. 
WE'RE BACK IN THE 
SADDLE AGAIN Sarah Grathwohl Curtis, formerly of Laughin' Place, Is now Instructing at Keith Hell's Stable In Niles, Michi2an. Heated Arena/4 maximum In class/ ng­lish or Western/4 lessons -In advance $40.00/Thursday evenings, Saturday afternoons. Call Jo Heil after 7:00, 
683-4467 
ND-SMC CHICAGO HAPPY HOUR EMERALD ISLE THURSDAY MARCH 22, -:00-??? 
Attention Saint Mary's!! Now's your chance to give that spacial someone [I.e. Domer, roommate, profes­dar, best enemy, etc.) 1 personal In the Observer! Contact the SMC office In the basement of Regina South or call 5365, from 12-1 pm, for more Information!! 
Here's to Norman ... Attention all participants In the NO-tor­onto Exchange! Norman Flynn's birthday is March 24, why not show your apprecia­tion by sending him a card or letter; 
Norman Flynn 5Devonshire Place Toronto, Ontario Canada M5S2C8 
Terry, Thanks for the counseling. Hope your birthday Is the greatest! 
Love, Bob and Sue 

Mardi, Have 1 grut time In C111fornla. I'II try to manage without lou, but you know hew difficult It will be or Kerbert. He's such 1 BABY!! 
If "only tile good die young," RED­HEADS will live forever!!. 
Joey, What Cln I say? Have fun playng with your nephews and uttlng your mom out 
It's been fun! 

Mike Lahrman: Happy 22nd on the 21st. Hope you enjoy those Sunny Southern Indiana beaches. 
The Dallas Cowgirl 

MG, Guanle, Jeannie, Usa and Sharon: 
GIVE BABIES! Love ya'll, the Whole 
Bessie: "Have youever thought about hosting a Game Show?" Now that we've got your 
attention;  have  a  Happy  Birthday  to­ 
morrow.  
love;  
K&K  

SOPHOMORES: "SPIRIT IN THE NIGHT" a class formal at the Century Center futuring the "Gr111 Roots" 1re now available In the Dining Halls during dinner!! 
Pasta Brain, the 21st should be fattening and fright­ening 
Dan 

To 4th floor's Tempting Tigress. Hap~y 19th Birthday from the rest of the JunH e. 
P.S. Take It easy tonight on "The Kid' in the passion pit. 
JULIE RITIENHOUSE will still be accepting birthday kisses on her Birthday today!! 
ChiCigO'I St. Patrick• Day Parade Come MARCH with the Chle~go Club on Saturday, March 17. We a11emble 1t 
12:30 pm at site 58 on the Southside at Wacker Drive between State St. and Dearborn. Questions Clll Ed Moran 277-3435 
PATSY CAMBELL & BETH HUFFMAN: Do you always slnA Springsteen at the top Of rur lings I er one-hall gl111 Of GR EN? 
Stud 

P.1. Ambulance services run late any night. 
SENIORS: Unofficial Monday nl~ht Llyout Stiff: TICKETS ON SALE FOR SENIOR "Shalalala aPoll t over; Shllalala FORMAL* MARCH 12-14, MARCH 26-and do It agalnl Thanks for the goodAPRIL 12. Lafortune Lobby 12·2, time! LeMan• Lobby 6-8. Bids: $45/cou~le Red-headed ambulance driver Includes: Reception, Dinner, and D1nc ng P.S. Who thou~ht 1nyone could have 10 
·much fun on 1 ond1y night? Hank Notar-Donato: Thank you: Here It Is! ! Your ver~ own ~rsona; :!! Alice, !irian, Carolyn, Diane, Doug, Pan Degan: Have a very happy 2 nd blrt day on the Ellen, J.R.* Kristin, Mike, Pat, Patti, (congratulations for being promoted! We 22nd! Have agood break. Reyn, Sarah, Sue, and Susan. Your made at least 1 did) know you deserved It! 
MW my 22nd so s~eclal. I'm very lucky to Freshman promotions director have friends II e you. P.S. I bet that little bear Is really proud of 
Julie: Connie you. HAPPY BIRTHDAY from those two chicks from across the road! Be Good! To my 16-D Bengal Bout Mana,ers: PATSY CAMBELL! 
Mary & Kathy 'kong, C.J., Law, B.J., Scott, Prof. ock, PATSY CAMBELLI Grampa &Col Thanks so much for your 
PATSY CAMBELL! Amber, Cotton, Marybeth: suport. We are 10-01 11 this good enoulh? II not we might lov•
JlmO.

To the three best "working girls" on toJ:: some GR EN and then take the campus. Thanks for a job well done. A BULANCE HOME. VourPimp Carla M. Panama Red &Stud 
Vou are far from me yet I'm closer than 
p.1. Good to know that rou Cln cork your 
.you think. · you seldom see me tey I'm bottle Corkiyl Sorry II spelled It wrong
MOM, DAD, KACKV, PATTIE and always with you.
WOINKLES say Happy Birthday Beef. 
Your Admirer 

JOEY: GET NAKEDIIIII
SARDINE, Carla M. 

Guess Who?

Happy 21st and may you never become 
My eyes adore you yet I see blindly so 
P.s. I'd tell you to go jump In thereal fish bait 
ME close yet so far. reflecting pool but It's empty.
Your Admirer 

P.S. I'm glad your feeling better! 
Happy Birthday to youM.P.* 
Happy Birthday to you
Too bad, you would be great at Halloween 
Dear Wuss, Happy Birthday Joe MurphyMaybe next time. 
To my favorite gre~ haired WUSS! You're Happy Birthday to you.
MEDAL 

the best! Happy -Day! Love, Bob:To John, Dan & Mark, Twit 
1thought you dldn't rnd the person111.
Thanks for the good time at Goose's. Vou Ovserver Men know how to party! 
GEORGE JOSEPH,Beth and Patsy 
HAVE A GOOD TIM£ IN FLORIDA!
P.S. Patsy doens't like to play ambulance LOVE* TIGER 
~ 
/ 
~ 
~ 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I, 

~ 
... 
' 

-
I 


·--------------------------------­
Wednesday, March 14, 1979 -page 16
SRorts 
Mental health a key 
Irish headed for NCAA cro-wn? 
How does a team go from the Championship ~arne of the NCAA tournament one year to a loss "' rr:-first round the next year without losing a Ray startmg nlayer in ht"rween. That's what Duke u•u ""'.J if you as themrhey will t~ll you that the O'Brien still have the most La.-:nted team 10 the country. 
You see, talent isn't enough anymore. Talent 
Sunday's victory over 
will win a team their 20 games and get them a bigger than ND fans suspect. team playoff berth but other factors dominate supporters were looking toward a speculatedthereafter. The schedules are just too long, match up with Michigan State, Phelps and crew 
traveled and tough to allow a team to rely on were _playing do-or-die before an of
arena talent alone. inhospttable "neutral site" viewers. This gameJust look at Duke and North Carolina this might have been Notre Dame's toughest since 
year. What about UCLA and Marquette last talent becomes more important down the stretch 
season and San Francisco the year before that. with less upsets occuring. They all "went before their time." That's 
The Irish seem to have their confidence back. 
because physical and psychological barriers can Bill Laimbeer is showing emotion and results get in the way. Duke lost two starte~s before like never before. Rich Branning has regainedSunday's loss to St.John~. NorthCarohn~ had a his touch while Bruce Flowers continues his 
long layoff except for the1r tournament wm over consistent brilliance. Orlando Woolridge is Duke. 
adapting well to the pressure games while Bill Digger Phelps has always referred to the Hanzlik carried his team through their toughest
NCAA tourney as a "second season." Teams first half of the season last Sunday. forget their past and live for today because one 
The key for Notre Dame lies in the ability of 
cold night can put an p"..J rr-?. "F~'· succes.sful Tracy ''Kelly'' Jackson to regain his shooting season. The National Champ10nshtp ts a tncky 
touch. AI McGuire refers to Jackson as the best 
act to pull off. Tht-i.v,ii.ul;.,. must be right sixth manin the country. Certainly no team can regardless of how much talent a team has an no afford to play without a player of his calibre. 
one knows that better than Phelps who has never Phelps squad will see more zone defenses and if 
are can would desperately love to bring that trophy back formula for his ''instant offense': for the rest of the 
won that World Series of college basketball but Jackson IS not hitting his jumper, Notre Dame Irish fans hoping that Tracy Jackson 
will go the route of the Tar Heels and Blue 
to South Bend. tournament. Chnstzan]
Devils. 

So how do the Fighting Irish size up to the Last year the Irish made it to the final four ''formula?'' 
behind the inspiring play of Kelly Tripucka.
Fortunately, Notre Dame can go farther on Kelly seemed to be lost for the last two weeks of 
talent than most teams because they have great the season but was in vintage form scoring 21 Purdue not given bye in NIT; 
depth. Phelps' team can better survive a cold points against the Vols. He must continue to performance by a starter, so luck is not as big a generate that offense and make things happen if factor. But ND's psychological health WILL be a 1979 is going to the "The Happening" for the 
Head Coach Rose very upset 
big factor. Fighting Irish basketball. Phelps is an intense coach who tries to As I see it, UCLA, Arkansas, Syracuse and WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. the semifinals nextmentally motivate players. When the "mind Notre Dame possess that formula that will take a (AP) -First, Purdue tied for the Purdue now must play a
game" plays so large a role in a team's success, team to Salt Lake City. From there, experience Bi~ Ten Conference champion­round game against Old Domin­It becomes a double edged sword. After the and talent usually show their true colors. So ship, but then was left out of ion at West Lafayette on Thurs­
DePaul and Michigan losses tht> Jrish r-vn" were color the finals Green as the Irish and Bruins the NCAA basketball playoffs. day night. If they win that one, deeply wounded. Uptight, overanxiou~ and match up for the third and rubber game of the Then, the 15th-ranked Boiler­the Boilermakers will play the
confused described their state of affair~. As season. For the last time I MAY BE WRONG, makers missed out on one of winner of the Alabama-TexasKelly Tripucka aptly reflected, "I just don't BUT I'LL PICK NOTRE DAME IN A two byes into the semifinals of A&M game in the first semi­know what's going wrong, but we're just too THRILLER. But then again predictions and the National Invitational Tour­final match Monday night. 
good to lose." analysis are cheap--don't look past Toledo. nament at New York's Madison The two byes were selected Square Garden. The byes went ina blind draw of the six teams in<;tP>~rl to Ohio State and remaining in NIT play. Interhall roundup Indiana , both of whom finished "If the draw was as it was 
""' 
behind Purdue in Big Ten play. explamed to me, then our. 'luck' All of which leaves Purdur­came through again!'' Rose
Stan_ford, Farle~y win post-season playo_ffs 
Coarh Let" Rose more than a declared. ''First, we win the little irritated Big Ten and we go to the NIT. Stanford Hall took home its pion, Dillon, to make it an Joe Lapchik Conft:rence ·'Can sumeone please ex­Then we get to play at 9 o'clock third interhall hockey cham­all-North Quad final. plain to me the advantages of (Monday night against Dayton), pionship in the last four years Alumni II 7 1 being the Big Ten champion?" and now the Big Ten's fourth 
Women's Interhall B-ball 
Monday night, as they own a Zahm II 7 1 the first-year Boilermaker and fifth-place teams (Ohio 4-3 overtime thriller over Grace Farley Hall powered over Flanner IV 6 2 coach asked rhetorically after State and Indiana) get byes,. Hall at the ACC. Breen Phillips 32-21 Sunday Grace IV 6 2 the NIT draw Tuesday. and we don't." 
Grace had defeated Stanford night to capture the 1979 [continued on page 14) Instead of going directly to [continued on page 14] in regular season play, and was Women's Inter hall Basketball rated the favorite because of title. Missy Sorapure led their superior individual talent. Farley with 10 points while 
Fencers hope to claim 3rdstraight NCAA title
The more physical Grace Breen Phillip's Karen Alig team dominated play in the toped the scoring with 11 
opening minutes of the game, points. Both teams, only Sand Andy Bonk in foil and Tom record (.979), won 23 of 24
by Paul Mullaney 
but Stanf0rd sr:ored a goal early 3 for the year, seemed to catch Cullum in epee as well as bouts at the Great Lakes while
to •...,l..... ~ 1 n 'had. fire during the playoffs, elimi­Assistant Sports Editor Sullivan in sabre, have been finishing second. His only loss J"hrm:ghour the two perioJs nating the top two seeds. 
named as representatives to the was to Wayne's Yuri Rabino­
)t , q~'"''""""" 1,nty the rwo teams When asked to comment on the With the regular season and NCAA tourney, which will be vich, the eventual winner, bytraded goals and momentum, season Farley captain Maureen Great Lakes Championships held at Princeton on March 22, score of 5-4. as Stanford could only manage Loughney said, "It's fun play­now history, Mike DeCicco and 23 and 24. one-goal lead before Grace ing all year, but it's great to his Notre Dame fencing team Last week's Great Lakes tour· woulCJ pull even again. finally win it all." have two weeks to prepare for ney, held at Michigan Dear­
Brian Dean led the Stanford the defense of their 1977 and born, marked the first post· FinalAP poll 
Wrestling Tournament
offense, scoring two goals in 1978 national titles. 
season action ever for both 
regulation and then coming up Here are the winners of the The Irish won the 1977 NCAA Bonk and Cullum. While the I. Indiana St. (50 30-0with the game-winner in the interhall wrestling tournament: 
tide at their own Athletic and Irish didn't grab the top spot at 2. UCLA (2) 24-4 
sudden death overtime period, 125 lbs-Dan Mulholland Convocation Center by defeat­the event they finished behind 3. Michigan St. (2)22-6 
as he broke through the Grace (Cavanaugh), 135 lbs-Doug ing NYU in the first-ever fence­Wayne State, 99·72, they did 4. Notre Dame 23-5 defense and beat the goalie on Garofalo (Fisher), 145 lbs­off in NCAA title history. 
qualify all three fencers for the 5. Arkansas 24-4 
his stick side. David Ziska (Off-Campus), 155 Last year, at Wisconsin­
nationals. 6. DePaul 23-5 
''When Grace beat us in lbs-Ted Carnevale (Morrissey), Parkside, the Irish dido' t have Bonk finished second in foil 7. Louisiana St. 23-5 
) anuary, all we wanted was 165 lbs·J ohn Fessler (Flanner), to worry about a fence-off as behind Wayne's Ernie Simon, 8. Syracuse 26-3 
another shot at them,'' said 17S lbs-Mike Burke (Dillon), 
they walked away with their while Cullum didn't reach the 9. North Carolina 23-6 
Stanford coach Kevin Connolly. and heavyweight-Tom Costas second championship in as final round, although qualifying 10. l'vfarquette 22-6
"We kept improving with every (Off-Campus). many years. 
nationally. Simon, inc1dentally, 11. Duke 22-8
game, and Monday night all our This year the task won't be as defeated Dame's 12. San Francisco 
lnterhall basketball Notre Pat 22-6efforts paid off.'' Final standings easy, however. While Notre Gerard for the foil gold medal 13. Louisville 24-7
''This is our third title in four 
Dame's top fencer of all-time, last year at Kenosha, thwarting 14. Penn 23-5McGuire Conference 
years," he added, "but this one Mike Sullivan, returns in search Gerard from joinin~ both Sulli­1). Purdue 24-7 
1s especially sweet because we w L of his third straight gold medal van and epeeist BJorne Vaggo 16. Oklahoma 21-9avenged the earlier loss." Morrissey I 6 0 and fourth straight All-America 
in swe~_ping the gold medal 17. St. John's, N.Y20-10
Grace defeated Morrissey to Howard I 4 1 title, the other Irish representa­competmon. 18. Rutgers 22-8 reach the finals, while Stanford Keenan II 4 3 tives will see their ftrst cham­Sullivan, who finished his 19. Toledo 22-7downed the South Quad cham-Grace II 4 3 pionship competition. dual-meet career with a 1 20. Iowa 
..._~--~----~-----·-----~----~~~----~­





