... BestofChicago -page 9 

VOL XIII, NO. 117 · an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 11-IURSDAY APRIL 19, 1979 
Vietnam, China 
open talks 
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) -­Vietnam's peace ne~otiations with China opened m Hanoi yesterday with a Vietnamese proposal that a demilitarized zone be established on its border with China, according to Asian new agency reports re­ceived in Bangkok. 
It was the first day of talks between the two Communist neighbors, who fought a border war in February. 
Vietnamese negotiator Vice Foreign Minister Phan Hien said Chinese troops still occu­pied more than ten areas in Vietnamese territory. He said the Chinese were continuing to strengthen their forces along the border and that the situa­tion was "very tense." 
He proposed that both armies withdraw two to three miles from the border recognized before the Chinese invasion Feb. 17, and that prisoners of war be exchanged soon, accor­
ding  to  a  Rad1o Hanoi -broad­ 
cast.  
[continued on page 13)  



$117millionpledged 

Catnpaign enters finalphase 
by Mike Shields . News Editor 
The Campaign for Notre Dame, a program to make Notre Dame "the greatest Catholic university of all time,'' is within ten percent of its goal of $130 million in endowments, University President Fr. Theo­dore Hesburgh announced at a press conference yesterday. 
The national fund-ratsing drive, which began less than two years ago, has already obtained $117 million in gifts and commitments to the Uni­versity, but Hesburgh said he hoped to surpass the tar~et by "several million dollars.' 
Yesterday's press conference marked the opening of the campaign's thtrd and final phase, that of contacting over 80,000 alumni, parents and friends. Phase III has a target of $15 million, Hesburgh said. 
The first phase involved flyin~ prospective donors to the Uiu­verslty to seek support. Phase II involved a series of over 140 luncheons and dinners. 
Hesburgh noted that Notre Dame is currently twenty-third in the nation in endowments. The current campai~n will "ca­tapult Notre Dame mto the top ten or 15 universities in the land," he added. 
"Show me the ten universities with the largest endownments, and I will show you the ten finest institutions of higher learning in the United States," Hesburgh claimed. 
He stressed the importance of endowments for underwriting future academic achievement and securing the University 
The spring weather and high temperatures brought out the romantics as well as the athletes. [Photo by Dave Rumbach] 
against inflation. new undergraduate housing, $2 
A breakdown of the $130 million for graduate housing million total shows $92 million and $3 million for dorm renova­earmarked for the University's tions. endowments, including $32 mil­The expansion of engineering lion for 40 endowed professor­and art gallery facilities and the ships, of which 26 are now fully construction of chemical re­funded. Another $29.3 million search, classroom and faculty will go toward physical facili­
[continued on page 13)
ties, including $4 million for 
1Editorial process' 

Court rules against editors in libel case 
WASHINGTON (AP) --Pub­lic figures who sue a journalist or news organization for libel may probe the ''editorial pro­cess'' which led to the allegedly libelous statement, the Su­preme Court said yesterday. 
Voting 6-3, the justices ruled that reporters and editors are not consitutitionally protected 

Reid considers record store after new proposal submitted 
by Kathleen Connelly Senior Copy Editor 
Director of Student Activities John Reid said last night that he will make a decision on the latest Record Store proposed by the Board of Commissioners either today or tomorrow. 
Reid cited security, inventory control and continuity in administration from year to year as being his major concerns with the pro{>osal.
The onginal record store proposal, submitted almost a year ago, was rejected on the basis of these reservations by Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vice-president for Student Affairs. 
In t~is latest propos~!, ho~ever, the drafters of the proposal haye elimmated the posstble mventory, management and secunty problems foreseen by Van Wolvlear by subsituting a plan for a store that would operate on an order basis rather than maintaining a substantial connnuous inventory.
In justifying his rejeaction of the original proposal, Van Wolvlear ex_pressed concern over the possibility that a future Student union mtght be unwilling to adminster the record store. 
Under the provis10ns of the/roposal, the Student Union Services 
"The concern that Fr. Van Wolvlear has expressed in the past are 
Commission would staff an  administer the record outlet.  The  
store  would  operate  from  the  Ticket  Office,  with  no  other  
permanent facilities.  

my concerns," Reid said. "I agree with what he said on the first proposal," he added. 
''The beauty of this proposal is that it deals with the reservations that the admmistration nad on the frrst proposal,'' Student Union Director Tom Hamel observed. 
The current record store proposal has evolved in response to administrative criticism dunng the past year.fLast May, Roche, then newly appointed Student Union director submitted the original proJ:?osal for ·a large inventory store. 
The first prOJ:?<?Sal was arafted by Roche and Curt Hench who was Executive Staff coordinator for the Student Union at the time. At present, Hench is Services Commissioner. 
The first proposal was submitted to Bro. Just Paczne~y, former vice-president for Sudent Affairs. When Paczseny restgned, the responsibility for the decision was transferred to his successor, Van Wolvlear. 
Van Wolvlear turned down the proposal in November of last xear, stating that he did not believe there would be sufficient demand for a full-time record store. He also expressed concern that the store would not be feasible from an administrative standpoint, especially in the areas of inventory control, security and continuity. 
''A lot-of people were disappointed when it was turned down,'' Roche said. ''Student reaction to the idea of a low cost record store 
'[continued on page 2) 

from being forced to explain ABC News reported accurately . The decision in the journalism 
how they prepared a challenged Monday what the court's ruling report--and may be asked ques­would be, and that Justice tions about their "state of Byron R. White would write the mind" during that preparation. majority opinion. Such prema­
The court's closed delibera­ture word of a decision is rare in tions and decision in a case · the court's 190-year history, altering the nation's libel law and the report apparently has ap_parently were leaked earlier spurred an internal investiga­this week. tiOn among court employees. 
Waiting for good dough 



Liberal Arts majors find jobs 
by Mark Rust News Editor 
EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the first installment ofa two-part series dealing with job opportunities for liberal Arts Majors. Today :s article deals with the job clim~~te andpossibili­ties for graduating seniors and foOows the progress ofone local graduate who "made it. " 
Barb (not her real name) is 22, a senior liberal arts major, and accomplished in the areas of analysis and communtcation skills. In four months, Barb will be thrown out into the job market, a market she feels is hostile to women with her background. Also in four months, she will begin repaying her $20,~000 college loan and begin providing for herselt. While she is sure that she does not want to take a job that she considers "demeanin_g," that is the only thing she is sure of. Barb is scared and confused about her future. 
Mary Quinlan graduated from Saint Mary's in the liberal arts in 1976 "with grades that weren't that hot.'' After an on-campus interview three years ago, she was hired by the General 
[coflli1111ed on pt~ge 4) 
case is a victory for former Army Lt. Col. Anthony Her­bert, who is suing CBS and others for $44.7 million. 
Herbert's 1973 suit named as defendants CBS, the network's "60 Minutes" news program, correspondent Mike Wallace, producer Barry Lando and the Atlantic Monthly Magazine. 
Herbert, who was stripped ofa battalion command, gained na­tional prominence in the early 1970s when he formally charged his superior officers with war crimes and atrocities in South Vietnam. 
Lando's investigation of Her­bert's .exr.erience led to a Feb. 4, 1973, '60 Minutes" telecast called ''The Selling of Colonel Herbert,'' in which the truth of Herbert's charges was called into question. Lando also wrote an article for the Atlantic Monthly based on his fmdings. Herbert's suit charges that the pro_gram and article "falsely and maliciously'' portrayed him 
[coflliftlleti 011 JNige 13) 

-----·----··--------·-~ ------·-------------------------------------------­
-------·~------------------------------------------~--­


News in brief 
Thursday, April19, 1979 -page 2 
Accepts post 

Three die in New jersey 
commuter helicopter crash 
Durance heads SMC fund drive 
NEW ARK, NJ (AP) --A commuter helico~ter plu~ged 1,000 by Kit Bernardi serves as a sou.rce of income for Saint Mary's Report, a news­feet after taking off at Newark Intern~uonal Atrport last the College. Endowments con­letter circulated four times a ni~ht, and at least thr~e persons were kil~ed_ and ten. o!hers 
sist of such donations made year; The Couner, a magazineinJured, authorities satd. The Federal Avtatton Admmtstra­As of the first of April, Saint through trusts or wills. And as distributed by the alumnae, and tion said 18 people, including a crew of three, were aboard Mary's will welcome an add­Durance put it, "In the long any other special publications. 
the 30-passenger New York Airways aircr~t, whic~ came ition to its administration-­run, a large endowment keeps The final branch of collegedown on its side on runway 22. The FAA satd the heltcopter Lawrence Durance, newly (college) prices lower." relations is alumnae affairs,climbed to about 1,000 feet before it crashed at 6:23p.m:, 
appointed vice-president for The thtrd and last sector of which relates its operations to .
coming to rest about 200 yards from the New Jersey college relations. developmental activities, Durance through a staffTurnptke. 
Durance previously served as special projects, is concerned member who acts as an assistant to the president and with the construction of new alumnae representative. executive director of develop­facilities for which the institu­Durance feels comfortable as
Quake shakes New England, 
ment for Regis College to tion expresses a need. The the new vice-president of 
Denver, CO, where he had been Angela Athletic Facility, com­college relations at Saint
Richterscale reads 3.96 
employed for nine and one-half pleted in 1977, · and the pro­Mary's. "Having worked with years. posed new library are example Regis, I am familiar with thePORTLAND (AP) --The strongest earthquade in northern Durance describes the re­of special projects. Funds for workings of a higher CatholicNew England in six years rattled residents of Maine, New sponsibility of his newly such large undertakings have private college," he said.
Hampshtre and eastern Massachusett~, b~:It caused no acquired position as "maintain-. been given to the College by Durance confirmed his plea­injunes or major damage. The quake, regtstenng 3.96 on the ing the image and securing lar~e corporations, foun­sure in his new undertaking,Rtchter scale, struck at 9:34p.m. Tuesday and was followed financial support necessary to datiOns, and generous indiv­adding, ''I am looking forwardby "six aftershocks," the la~t o~ whic~ ended just before 11 maintain a viable institution.'' iduals. to working for Saint Mary'sp.m., said Dr. Edward Chtbuns, asststant dtrector of the He elaborated on this descrip­The second branch of college College. There is an opportu­Weston, MA, Observatory. Chiburis said the. quake was tion with the analo~y, "I am relations is public relations and nity here to take part in a verycentered in the Bath-Brunswick area, a few mtles west of res_Ponsible for the tostitutions public information. This area good school on the verge ofWiscasset, site of the Maine Yankee nuclear plant. The plant as tt faces the external world, as covers the distribution of the greatness.''
was one of five East Coast nuclear plants shut down last 
opposed to academic affairs
month because of questions about their ability to withstand 
which faces inwardly.''

an earthquake. But authorities reported no damage at Maine 
Durance will supervise such
Yankee and Chiburis said the quake was "not energetic 
college relations concerns as
enough'to do any damage to structures." 
developmental activities, public relations and public information and alumnae relations. 
TMI technicians reduce 
Developmental activities is the branch of college relations
temps in coolingsystem 
that focuses on fund-raisin~, including the Saint Mary s HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) --Tec~nicians s~cces~fully dropl?ed 
Fund, plan giving, and specialthe temperature in Three Mtle Island s pnmary cooling 
projects.system yesterday, but they must take one more cautious step 
The Saint Mary's Fund com­before bringing the disabled nuclear reactor to cold 
prises funds accumulated on an shutdown. The final time-consuming obstacle is the 
annual basis from regular sup­
designing and building of a backup cooling system, which 
porters. The recent Business would serve as an extra preca!ltion against breakdowns or 
Association Program is an leaks in the primarY. system. "They won't make the move to 
example ofa project intended to 
cold shutdown unttl that's completed," said Jan Strasma, a 
collect cash annually from en­
spokesman for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. "The listed businessmen. 
system is in the design stages now, so it's certainly a matter 
The Saint Mary's Alumnae 
of days.'' 
Association also aids in contrib­
uting to the fund by issuing 
several mailings to alumnae
Woman reports theft 
and parents asking for financial support. This organization 
With the title at stake each bookstore team known they must
ofmarijuanafrom her car 
presently is conducting a 
hold onto the ball, but to win they must also shoot. [Photo by
phone-a-thon which will contin­
Dave Rumbach] 

HAVRE DE GRACE, MD (AP) --When Susan Sarver, 23, 
ue uvtil May 31. Saint Mary's was robbed, she thought police ought to do something about 
students are calling alumnae it. She called the town po'lice Tuesday to report that someone 
across the country who have not had kicked in a window of her car and taken an ounce of 
... Records
responded to the ~ailing issued 
marijuana from the front seat. She valued the loss at $35. 
earlier in the year. She also reported the loss of two surgical clamps she used to 
The second area of Develop­
[continued from page I]

hold mariJuana cigarettes, seven cassette tapes and a 
mental Activities is/Ian givin~. 
were very favorable." .
camera, all valued at $131. Police said they were treating the 
This area of fun raising · ts 
"When the first proposal was submitted, yve hoped _that 1t wouldreport as a "regular larceny case." 
concerned with attracting 
be one of several shops that were to be mcluded to LaFortune
endowments which ultimately 
renovations. There was supposed to be a tobacco shop a~? flower
constitute the institution's 
shop, but that part of the renovation never happened, Roche
Weather 
savings account. This interest 
noted. d h ·d b
generated by the account After the first proposal was rejected, ~oche pur~u~ t e 1 ef Y submitting a second proposal requesnng perm1sswn to ho.d_ a 
Partly sunny and pleasant today with highs in the mid 60's. Cloudy tonight w1th a slight chance for ~ few showers and lows in the mid 40s. Warmer wtth showers and 
record sale that would operate on an order bas~s.
_The Observer_ 
Van Wolvlear directed Roche to submit further proposals to Retd. 
thunderstorms likely tomorrow with highs around 70. 
Night Editor: Dave Brosh 

The record sale proposal was. approved by Reid. .
Asst. Night Editor: Marga­
•'The primary reason for holdmg the sale was to ftll a need,_ but ~n
ret Kruse, John Smith 

the process we demonstrated that there is a great demand t~r. th1s
s 
Copy Reader: Mare Ulicny 
type of service and that students could coor~inate and admmtst~r
Layout Staff: Suzy Marshall, 
such~ project despi~e the doubt ~~pressed m F~. Van Wolvlear s
Dave Hickey 

rejectton of the ongmal proposal, Roche explamed. 
Features Layout: Ann Mo­
He noted that student purchase constit':lted th~ largest order ever lj>m--PRESENTATION, "computer cataloging & indexing 
naghan 

handled by Father's ana Sun's, the Indtanapohs wholesalers whoof illuminated medieval manuscripts,'' dr. thomas ohlgren, 
Sports Layout: Beth Huff
purdue u., sponsored by freshman writing program, 242 
man, Tom Serio

O'SHAG 
Typists: Lisa DiValerio 
Mark. Perry, Beth Willara,1 
3 pm--SOFfBAll, st. mary's vs kalamazoo, LEEPER PARK 
Rosie Rodgers 

EMT: Sore Throat McCauley 
6:30 pro--MEETING, alpha phi omega, disucssion of umoc 
Day Editor: Kate Kilkuskie
assignments, ZAHM BASEMENT Ad Layout: Matt DeSalvo 7, 9:30 pm--FILM, "the molly magulres," CARROLL 
Photographer: Dave Rum­HAll-SMC 
bach 
The Observer [USPS 598 920] is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. 

7, 9 pm--FILM, "dr. syn, alias the scarecrow," ENGR. AUD. 
7 pro--WORKSHOP, "life _and career planning," paul 
The Observer is published by the

winum, sponsored by counsehng center, 400 ADMINISTRA1 
students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year [$10 per semester] from The Observer. P.O. box 

TION BLDG. 
7 pro--MEETING, j.a.c., ALUMNI LOUNGE 
Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second 



class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­ 
diana 46556.  
7:30 pro--MEETING, AUD.  notre  dame historical  society,  UB.  The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  



The Observer Thursday, April19, 2979 -page 3 

One ofthe few things which makes the four years worth it is pulling down a rebound in the bookstore tournament. [Photo by Dave Rumbach] 
In SMC senior class elections 
Mullaney calls for runoff 
by Pam Degnan StaffReporter 

Seventy-four percent of the Saint Mary's senior class v~ted last night in a run-off election to dec1de its 1979-1980 class nominations. Members of Elaine Belle's ticket, one of the two contending Senior Class tickets, expressed their dis­appointment at the election's outcome. Belle stated that her ticket plans to run in the new election. The Debbie Roberts 
Seven students represent SMC at m.ock UN conference 
by Pam Degnan StaffReporter 
A delegation of seven Saint Mary's students, representing Tanzania, participated in a collegiate United Nations con­ference last week in New York. This annual "model" U.N. project allows student commit­tees to simulate the complex operations of the U.N. 
Assigned to a specific com­mittee, each delegate was responsible for accurately voic­ing the policies of Tanzania. A dally agenda, presented to the committees, described various political, social and economic proposals. Committee mem­bers, in arguing the proposals. utilized their powers of caucus and bargaining. 
The Saint Mary's delegation consisted of seniors Merce Webber, Ann Sofranco, Ann Bathon and Megan Phillips, and juniors Mary Beth Bonte, Donna Hancock and Denise Streff. Prof. Craig Hartzer from the government depart­ment accompanied the students as a faculty advisor. According to members, the week-long conference "tested their endur­
"better working relationship with the Notre Dame girls" by encouraging them to become involved in Saint Mary's activities. 

ance both mentally and phys­ically." 
Daily committee sessions were held from 9 a.m.-11 a.m. During designated intervals, the students arbitrated over the proposed resolutions which often resulted in intense delib­eration. 
Highlights for the Saint Mary's delegation included a briefing session with the Third Secretary of Tanzania at the Tanzania Mission. According to Phillips, the Briefing "pro­vided an excellent opportunity to learn of the up-to-date Tanzania policies." She added that it proved to be advan­tageous when they approached the Ugandan delegation. 
The group members agreed that, by participating in the conference, they became aware of the political struggles of 

~ Don't know whnt to get ""11 that pre-med grad? 
Answer: Physician's Desk Reference (PDR) 1979 Edition J13.50 
Available at: Geotgetown Pharmacy Georgetown Shopping Center and mar-main Pharmacy 426N. michigan 
Third World nations. "Most of the African nations like Tanzania are lacking in power and more often than not they are poorly represented in the U.N.," Hartzer said. 
The model U.N. conference, a student-run organization, has operated for 50 years. Partici­pating in this year's conference were 1300 individuals who represented more than 120 colleges and universities, m­cluding Princeton and MIT. 
This is the first time that a Saint Mary's delegation has attended the conference, but Hartzer hopes to establish either an independent study program or a government course, both wlth college credits, based on the U.N. project. The courses would be Intended for government majors. 
officers. The election, however resulted in a tie which forced Election Commissioner Mary Mullaney to call for a new election within a few weeks. 
Positions for Augusta Hall, Holy Cross Hall and sophomore class officers also were decided in run-off elections. 
According to Mullaney, "Another election will be scheduled within the. next few weeks and will be opened to all members of the senior class. All are encouraged to submit ticket was unavailab· : for comment. 
Sue Turcotte emerged as the winner in the Augusta Hall president run-off election. The Estelle Geyer-Kim Kearny ticket won the Holy Cross Hall election over the W assenhove­Vita ticket. 
The class of '82 voted to 
support "Bringing A Social Life Back to Saint Mary's" as promised by the Griffith/O'Keefe/Melvin/ Hesslau ticket. Griffith seeks a 
Greyhound's quickcure for the book blues. 
The book blues. It's those sleepless nights with visions of exams, pop tests and required reading dancing through your head. They just won't go away. 
But you can ... with Greyhound. Take off this weekend, visit your family, see your friends ... just get out of town and leave the book blues behind. It doesn't cost much and it'll do you a world of good. 
So, if you've got the book blues, get on a Greyhound and split. It's a quick cure for what ails you. 
To One--Way Round-liip Depart Arrive 
Chicago $8.55 $16.25 10:20 1.m. 11:15 p.m.Milwaukee $14.30 $27.20 10:20 1.m. 11:15 p.m.Cleveland $44.30 9:50 1.m. 4:35p.m.
$23.30 St. Louis $25.115 $47.60 1:50 p.m. 10:20 p.m.
Detroit $18.15 $34.50 7:011 p.m. 12:45 p.m. 
(Prices subJect to change.) 
210W.monroe 



GO GREYIIOIIIIJ 
-you 
287-6541 

The Observer Thursday, April19, 1979 -page 4 
Rhodesian officials anticipate large \·roter turnout for elections 
SALISBURY, Rhodesia (AP) sistant police commissioner, When white Prime Minister --Officials predict at least 60 said "terrorist intimidation" Ian Smith unilaterally declared percent of the electorate will was responsible for a low independence from Britain in vote in the five-day elections turnout yesterday at Fort Vic­1965 to head off black rule, the 
under way to bring limited toria in the south, where guer­world turned its back on Rho­black rule to Rhodesia. rilla activity has been high., desia. Only neighboring South 
Geoff Hedges, Rhodesia's as-Election REgistrar Eric Pope­Mrica recognizes it and United Simmonds told reporters 1,074, Nations-imposed sanctions 570 voters--or 38 percent of the have hit it hard. 
~······························~ electorate--voted from poll 
Rhodesia managed to surviveThe Designers at : opening Tuesday morning to 2 economically despite the sane-.
. 

p.m. yesterday . tions, but slX years of increas­Hedges said that in some ingly bitter guerrilla war forced 
cases guerrillas were abducting Smith to change his course last blacks in rural villages to March. 
cos1mo's 
. 

prevent them from voting. But He and three moderate blackRose, Connie, and Sally} he said overall activity had been leaders formed a bi-racial tran­lower than expected. sition /overnment and an­
The country mobilized 100,000 nounce one-man, one-vote el­can be trusted soldiers to protect voters and ections. 
voting placed from guerrilla Bishop Abel Muzorewa, heav­to design your hair to attacks. ily favored to become the Robert Mugabe and Joshua country's first black prime mi-­fit your personal need. Nkomo, co-leaders of the Patri-nister, is one of those mderates. otic Front guerrilla organiza­The white population, three tion, insist the new government percent of the approximately
please call for an appt. 
will be a facade for continued 6.8 million people in Rhodesia, 277-1875 while rule, and have vowed to is guaranteed 28 of the 100 disrupt the elections. So far seats in Parliament, and control 18461 st. rd.23 only a few scattered incidents of police, military, judiciary and have been reported. civil service for at least five 
. 
years as means of safeguarding 

···············~················· 
minority rights. Black moderates contend this is an adjustment period, a

Co.mpus View Apattments 
compromise to prevent an exo­dus of white who have skills the 


country badly needs. After Tuesday's voting, Muzo­

Now renting 
rewa told reporters Rhodesia
for 
would not bow to "emotional" objections to the agreement its

summer & fall 
blacks had reached with whites. "Whites in this country aren't 

Special Low Summer Rates: visitors or tourists," he said, ''They belong here from the human rights point of view and 
1 bedroom-S200 
we regard them now as we do 
ourselves.' '

2 bedroom-S240 

Central air & heated pool 
e 
•• Liberal
Fall reservations should be made now! 
Only one second floor left... more on first. 
[continued from page 1] 

Accounting Office (GAO)--the investigative branch of Congress--and started her career at a
CallGaylefornewrates 272-1441 
salary of $12,}<00. Today, two and a half years after graduation, she lives in a Chtcago high-rise, has gone through a couple of promotions and pulls down a salary of close to
'The Place 
$20,000. Mary 1s optimistic and excited about her future. 
While Mary's salary is not necessarily typical 
to be OH-Campus' 
of the average liberal arts graduate after ~ few years in the )Ob market, much of her expenence 10 finding ' suitable" employmen~ ~s. Barb's fears about employment opportunmes, on the other hand, are also typical. She, along with
create your own future 
more and more undergraduates who do not plan to go into teaching, feels that "you can't get a good job with a liberal arts degree." . 
The disparity between the expectations of undergraduates and the experience of graduates in the job market is understandable, given the current emphasis on "technical" expertise and specilization in today' s job market. But, according to Richard Willemin, director of the Notre Dame Placement Bureau, the emphasis on specialization has, in turn, given rise to an increased need for people who can analyze technical developments in a broad scope and can process and communicate new and com,I,>lex 
Communicators, 

1deas. "There is no doubt about their skills, he said. "More and more employers are hiring our liberal arts majors.'' . . . . 
According to a recent arucle 10 Ttme magaz10e, one out of every four students with bachelor degrees in the lioeral arts will have ~o settle for a joo ''that does not geJ?e~ally .reqmre a collegeeducation.'' That stausuc, glVen them by die Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), is misleading. A study of the BLS' '')obs Occupational Outlook Handbook'' shows that, while some entry level jobs in corporations, parti~ul~rly sales:. do not require a college degree 1s hsted as prefer­able" by those employers. A number of liberal arts. students head for those entry level jobs,
CALL TOLL FREE 800-424-3737 jobs described by_ the ~~~cement . Bureau as 
Fr. leslie M. Sieg, C.S.P. 
"leading to execu~lVe posmon~ .. Skdls that are required for effewve leadership 10 any field are
Office of Vocations 
developed through the study of the liberal arts.''
The Paulists 
The good news for the unmediate future of
3015 Fourth Street, N.E., Room 9E 
liberal arts students is, with an unemployment
Washington, D.C. 20017 
rate for college graduates currently at less than two percent, th~y are practically guarantet;d a job. And accord10g to the BLS, even those Jobs that do not require a college degree for entry pay as well or better than those that do. 

But there are actually an abundance of opportunities for well-paying white-collar ca­reers in which those with liberal arts degt:eequality, according to the BLS. Students wtth political science degrees who enter the work force may qua~ify as ~rainees in management, research, adm101strauon and sales, and law enforcement. Statistics show that banks, insurance companies, retailers and manufactu­ring concerns all employ social science majors as tra10ees for sales, research, and administrative and executive positions. History ~ajors c_an realistically look forward to posmons With research organizations, publishing ftrms, la_rge 
corporations along with e~ploy~ent  and the such  the more as  a government agenc1es, obvious avenues of rchives, libraries and  
umversmes.  

Why are opportunities available to Englishmajors, for example in seemingly unrefated fields? According to Willemin, die answer lies in the liberal arts students' broad base of ­understanding. "It allows a student much more flexibilicy to go into different areas. Students with lioeral arts degrees are much more circumspect, more facile, with a high degree of ability in reading and writing. That makes them desirable· to employers looking for those 
qualities.'' . 
Now working in the capacity of managenal accountant with the GAO, Quinlan reflected on her educational background in French and economics. "I think I was hired bee use I had a pretty well-rounded education. It gave me a really broad base of understaPding and a broad perspective of the world. Also, my work experience in the summer (filling various positions of responsibility in her fadier' s hotel business) was really a oig_ plus. In mY. job I travel about 20 percent of the time and I do investigative work. We are like the w;ltchdogsfof Congress; we evaluate the effictency o federal programs and determine whether or not theY. are meeting their objectives. We do a l~t of writing analysis, a11:d that is what I was mpned to do in college. Be10g able to analyze, havmg a broad perspective, and especially proying yourresponsibility by previous work expenence are 
[continued on page .5] 

.r------------------------~-----------------------------~-----------------­
The Observer 
'Free Lebanon' 
Haddad declares 'self-rule' 
TYRE, Lebanon (AP) · The Israele-backed Christian military in southern Lebanon yesterday delcared itself under "self-rule" ,l!ld proclatmed a new "Free l.pb:•non" state, the Israeli radio sall1 The declarat­ioncame hours <>. .er the Christ­ians shelled a Lebanese army unit as it jouned U.N. peace­keepers in the area. 
''Our intention wilt be to liberate all Lebanon from all the invaders and all who are for­eigners and who have bad intentions against Lebanon," said a militia leader, Maj. Sadd Haddad. 
The Christian milita contends the Lebanese forces are heavily influenced by Syria, seen by the Christians as rivals for control of Lebanon. The Israelis and Christians share the view that a Lebanese army aided by Syria will allow Palestinian ~uerrilla infiltration of the Israelt border and heighten tension in the area. 
Israeli radio said Haddad announced the birth of "Free Lebanon" at a news conference in the northern Israeli town of Metulla. 
Lebanon's state radio called Haddad's statement "Israeli­inspired secession.'' Pierre Genayel, leader of the rightest Christian Phalange Party, also condemned the declaration, saying "enough of states within a state." 
There was no immediate response from Israeli officials to Haddad's declaration. Diplomatic sources reported the United States had asked Israel to be a moderating influence on its Christian allies and allow the Lebanese army deployment in the area or proceed. 
Haddad's artillary shelled the 560-man Lebanese contin­gent as it moved into the village of Dirdghayya, the battalion headquarters about seven miles east of Tyre. Two Lebanese soldiers and a civilian were reported wounded. 
Haddad commands a force of about I, 500 rightist Christian soldiers who were given control of a six-mile-wide strip of Lebanon's 59-mile border with Israel when the Israelis with­drew from the south after they moved against Palestinian ~uerr.illas in a March, 1978, mvaston. 
Samir Sambar, a U.N. 
spokesman in Beirut, said two civilians were killed by Haddad's shelling of Irish U.N. troops and that the Norwegian and Nigerian troops also were being pounded by Haddad's guns. A report from Tel Aviv said one Norwegian U.N. soldier was killed and another wounded in the shelling. 
Residents of the rolltng hills of southern Lebanon and northern Israel have suffered from battles between warring factions since the civil war tore Lebanon apart in 1975 and 1976, Their homes and property have been heavily damaged by small arms and artillery fire. 
The Lebanese battalion has greeted by singing and dancing crowds of Lebanese villagers as it moved south early yesterday. Lebanese Prime Minister Dalim EI-Hoss and other Lebanese officials are trying to heal the wounds of the civil was between rightist Christians and 
Palestinians  and  their  leftist  
allies.  
The  war  was  halted  by  a  

Syrian force of 30,000 soldiers that still occupies areas north of the Litani River, just north of Tyre. 

The birds are not the only ones who make music in the spring. Students also add their own favorites during informal open-air concerts. [Photo by Dave RumbachJ 
... Liberal 
[continued from page 4] 
all really important factors." 
The glut of careers open to lib.eral ~s majo~s essentially fall into two related mdustnes--busi­ness and communications. According to the BLS the fields of advertising, purchasing a~d man~gement or administratt<:?n are the m~Jor areas of business open to any hberal arts maJor. Their statistics show that the rate of employment in those fields will grow as fast as the. average, relative to other fiefds, through the mid·l980s. All three areas rely, in large/art, on people who are sensitive to trends an ideas tbat thr~ad their way through the foJ::lulace and, accordm~ to the "Occupationa Outlook Handbook, technical aspects of the field can be learned "on 
the job." . .
The communications field iS expect.ed to expand greatly through 1985. Accordiqg to analysts, the inc::reased flov.: and complexicy of ideas are bringmg on ap. mcreased need for people who can anaiY.ze, 10terpr«::t, process and communicate those ideas, parucufarly to the business community as well as the rest of society. In public relations, person~el and l~bor relations IiberaJ arts maJors wdl be h1red "faster than the average" through 1985. People filling these positions can expect to start at salaries between $10,000 to $16,000, even in the low level positions. The employment _growth ?f writers ofall types in the business industry wtll increase as fast as the average, accordmg to statistics. Writers can expect to make between $10 000 and $20",000 a year, UP. to $25,000 and 
$30'000 for executive positions in the industry. The' need for technical writers will in~rease through the 80's, a0:d those who h~ve .ahberal arts degree mixed with some exper~ise m oth~r background will have the competltlve edge m those jobs, accordi~g to the BLS. . 
In fact the compeuuve edge c~n be h.ad 10 most any field by liberl arts maJors ~1th added expertise in a specialty field. ' I advise students along__!:hose very same line~" Willemin said of his office's pohty towards hveral arts students looking for careers. "I tell them that, where they have an elective opportunity, they sho~ld take a finance course, or some course 10 which they might pursue a career. The liberal arts are particularly good beca~se you always ha_v~ an out; thinkg 3;lo.ng t~e hoes of some addmonal technical trammg like graduate school or an 
MBA." 

Tomorrow's article will discuss how liberal arts majors can identif:Y. their areas of interest and expertise and, finlilly, how they can land a job. 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
~ 

-----------------1
E----------------~
----------------· 
UNIORS Reminder: NonRefundable $50 senior class trip collected NO Lafortune Lobby 
LeMons Lobby April23-27
April23-27 

7-9pm
11-4 

suttasheO 
5:1 5 mass anb suppm 
an
thiS ~RJbay 


CC!~
mn...ry 

Thursday, Aprill9, 1979 -page 5 
you can pick your mug up In the AN Tostal 
OHice thursday 3-5pm, friday 3-5pm, 
or at the meeting Sunday 9:OOpm Lafortune Little Theatre. 
T-Shirls will be distributed at the meeting Sunday. 
See you there I ~ 

-~---~ ~~--~ ~---------------­
The Observer Thursday, Aprill9, 1979 -page 6 
Unfortunately it wasn't the thn/1 of victory, but the these girls playing in the bookstore tournament was fun. [Photo by Dave Rumbach 
a 

~r 
NAVYOFFICER. 
Record flood~ displacesthousands of 1ssissippians 
(AP) --Thousands of Missis­sippians downstream from their stunned capital city of Jackson packed bags and fled yesterday to escape record floodmg of the Pearl River that already has cost half a billion dollars and displaced more than 17,000 people. 
In neighboring Alabama, hun­dreds more joined the 5,000 families in the Black Belt region who have abandoned their homes to rising water. Officials warned of the added peril of snakes and alligators driven from their river lairs. 
While the Deep South bore the brunt of this week's floods, which have been blamed for at least five death, the 2,000 residents of the northwestern Minnesota town of -Warren awoke to find streets inundated by the overflowing Snake River which runs through the center 


YOU Gn RESPONSIBILITY THE "MOMENT YOU GRTHE STRIPES. 
A lot of big corporations offer you a big title. But how many offer a young college graduate a really important job? 
AB a Navy Officer, you don't have to wait to do a job that counts. We give you one as soon as you've earned your commission. A job with responsibility for the lives of others, and for millions of dollars of complex equipment. A job that requires skillandleadership.AjobthatNavyOfficers have been doing proudly for 200 years. 
If that's the kind of job you're looking for, speak to a Navy recruiter. You'll find that Navy Officers have unequalled opportunities in fields like Nuclear Power, Aviation, and Engineering. Or call toll free 800-841-8000. (In Georgia, 
NAVY OFRCERS Gn RESPONSIBILITY FA~T. 
toll free 800-342-5855.) Early responsibility. It's what being a Navy Officer is all abo~t. 
r-;A~~~;;;;I;;-.---. ---;;;;1 
I INFORMATION CENTER I I P.O. Box 2000, Pelham Manor, N.Y. 10803 I I D Send me information on Career Opportunities 1
I in the Navy (¢G). I 
D Callmeat 
I

I (Area Code) 1 NAME I 
First (Please Print) last ADDRESS________________________
I 1 
I .CITY STATE ZIP I
I I 
DATEOF: 
I

I Birth *College Graduation .I tUniversity •GP I 
L~~---------------J 
of town. 
Mary lrby and her ten children of Selma, AL, a city of about 28,000 on the Alabama River, were among hundreds plucked from the floods by boat. 
''This man came up in a boat to try to get us out to feed the hogs," she said. "But the hogs had all come up on our front porch. That's when I knew it was time to leave." 
The water was inching down in Jackson, but it still lapped 2~ the rooftops of some houses and officials warned of record high water advancing on communi­ties to the south. · ) ackson Mayor Dale Danks warned residents to stay out of flooded neighborhoods because of hidden dangers, including snakes and weakened roads and bridges. 
"We now face added prob­lems by the receding water, which we consider just as critcal 
as when the river was rising," 
he said. 
Record crests were expected downriver at Geoq~etown, Monticello and C.olumbta where more than 2.000 residents al­ready have been evacuated. 
Sandbagging was going on around the clock in Columbia, a town of 8,000 about 80 miles south of Jackson, and many residents were packing their belongings and heading for higher ground. 
''The river is nearing 22 feet and it_ is forecast to reach 28 feet later this week,'' said Jim Thornhill, Marion County Civil Defense director in Columbia. "The crest will reach 2,000 people and if the river climbs even a foot above that level, we're talking about 5,000 evac­uations." 
In Georgetown, about 40 miles downriver, Mayor Beal Allbrit­ton said 80 percent ofhis town's 420 residents had moved out. ''All we can do not is hope we can ride this thing out,'' he said. 
In Monticello, located between Georgetown and Columbia, even more people were evacu­ated as the river rose at the rate of two feet a day, expected to go 
34.5 feet above flood stage on Saturday. 
The Pearl dropped to 42.5 feet in jackson after cresting at 43.2 feet on Tuesday, more than 25 feet above flood stage. _ 
Police and National Guards­men continued to patrol the flooded downtown area, permit­ting only authorized people and convoys of dump trucks with sandbagging -dirt fast road­blocks. 
The Mississippi flood yester­day forced Amtrack to cut off its Chicago to New Orleans pas­senger trains at Memphis, using buses for the ride around submerged tracks. 
Civil Defense officials said 500 other families in the path of flood crests surging into west­central Alabama were evacu­ated yesterday in the Selma area. At Demopolis, a city of 8,000 on the Tombigbee River, officials said 600 families had left their homes. 
George Srarks, deputy direc­tor of Civi Defense in Selma, warned that snakes driven from the rivers often seek dry shelter in abandoned homes. 
''We also have alligators down here," he said. "The flood waters sometimes wash them up out of the river and they sometimes end up near some of the homes. · 

STARTS TOMORROW Daily at 2:oo-3:45-5:30-7:3D-9:30 
Plitt 

SCOTTSDALE Miami and Ireland 281-4583 

Editorials 


Thursday, Aprill9, 1979 -page 8 
Experts as confused as Americanpublic 
Three weeks after the worst malfunctioning can trigger a nuclear mishap in U.S. history, chain reaction of human mis­the initial cvufusion surroun­takes and mechanical break­ding the near-catastrophe has downs, leading to a truly ser­subsided, but American suspi­ious situation. cions and fears about nuclear The accident at Three Mile power have not. Transcripts of Island did not have tra~ic taped emergency Nuclear Re­consequences, but it easdy gulatory Commission (NRC) could have. A few days after meetings released earlier this the accident, NRC officials re­week have done nothing to ported to a Senate subcommit­bolster American confidence in tee on nuclear regulation that the safety of nuclear power there was "some risk of melt­plants. Nor have they con­down" at the Three Mile Island vinced Americans that nuclear plant. Such a meltdown could energy experts are cal'able of have killed thousands of per­handlmg serious situations ari­sons immediately; several thou­sing out of nuclear plant acci­sands more who were exposed dents like the one at Three Mile to the radiation emitted from Island. the plant would have a strong 
The tapes show that the NRC chance of developing cancer commissioners and Pennsyl­within the next thirty years. vania Governor Richard Thorn­The government must allocate burgh were, in the words of more money for researching NRC chairman Joseph Hendrie, alternatives to nuclear energy. ''operating almost totally in the However, researching and de­blind" in the first few days velopins an alternative energy after a malfunctionin~ pump source 1s likely to take several and a series of mechamcal and decades. Currently, 72 nuclear human errors caused the leak­power plants across the country age of radioactive steam from supply 12. 5 l'ercent of Ame­the nuclear power plant on ricas electricity. The energy Three Mile Island. The re­produced at these plants is corded conversations reveal relatively inexJlensive, clean, that the commissioners were efficient, and free of foreign uncertain about what exactly control. With oil prices soaring was happening at the plant, and and environmentalists pointing_ were m disagreement as to out the adverse effects of what measures· should be taken coal-burning, it is hardlY. likely to resolve the problem and that the government wdl shut ensure the safety of area resi­down nuclear power plants in dents. Also, members of the the near future. commission expressed a lack of Until viable alternatives are confidence in the capabilities of found, however, the American Metrol'olitan Edison, the utility public must actively campaign operatmg the elant. One for increased safety of extsting commissioner, for example, nuclear power plants. commented, "Met-Ed is not all The incident at Three Mile that strong technically." Island has unveiled several 
In short, the tapes reveal that basic shortcomings of nuclear nuclear experts were unpre­power--including defective pared to deal with the accident, equipment, faulty plan designs, and were, in fact, almost as the ever-present factor of hu­confused as the American pub­man error, and the present lic by the events that took place inability of experts to calmly on Three Mile Island. and competently handle poten­Proponents of nuclear energy tially disastrous situations. The argue that the odds against a American public must demand reactor core meltdown--the ulti­that measures be taken im­mate nuclear disaster--are mediately to minimize the risks 
g. eater than several hundred of human error and equipment thousand to one. They assure malfunctioning, and to properly the public that automatic ·back­prepare plant operators and up systems and safety mech­nuclear energy experts to deal anisms make the possibility of a: with the troublesome situations major nuclear catastrophe prac­which will inevitably arise. tically negligible. But the 
Ann Gales
incident at Three Mile Island has illustrated how a simple· Editorial Editor 


WASHINGTON--The most pressing question Washington faces today is.. whether we will get the Gilbert Stuart portraits of George and Martha Wash­ington. For those who have not been following the controversy, the Smithsonian Institution bousht the paintings for $5 milhon from Boston's impover­ished Athenaeum Library to hang in the National Portrait Gallery in Washington. 
Suddenly Bostonians are up in arms. The idea of losing the paintin~s caused all the politi­cians 1n Massachusetts to scream that Washington was stealing their state's heritage. Mayor White said that every­one knows Washington has no culture and the sale could only be compared to the Mona Lisa being sold to the Arabs. 
My answer to White is, "Baked beans." If any city is lacking in culture it's Boston. It doesn't have a first-class uni­versity, a decent symphony orchestra or an accredited mu­seum. Bostonians can't tell the difference between Rembrandt and a hockey puck. 
I go to Boston a lot and I have many friends there But not once has anyone ever said to me, "Would you like to see the Gilbert Stuart portraits of George and Martha Washing­ton?" 

Depending on the season, my host will say, "Would you care to see a Red Sox game?'' or "How about going over to watch the Celtics play basket­ball?" 
I believe it's silly for Ameri­cans to argue which city has more culture. I think the decision as to where the por­traits should hang must be left to the wishes of the people of involved. 
I am fortunate to have in my possession a tape made during the sitting for the portraits. 
The tape was given to me by the Smithsonian and they have authenticated that the voices are those of George, Martha, and Gilbert Stuart. 
Here is a partial transcript: 
WASHINGTON: Gil, what do you intend to do with these portraits? 
STUART: It is my dream, Mr. President, that some day they will hang in the national Por­trait Gallery in the nation's capital. 
WASHINGTON: I'd like that, wouldn't you, Martha? . MARTHA: What other chot­ces do we have? 
STUART: Well, I heard from an art dealer that Boston would like them. 
MARTHA: You mean the home of that dreadful Yankee, John Adams? 
STUART: That's the way I felt about it, Ma'am. They have no appreciation of art. Just the other day I heard Paul Revere say, "If you've seen, one por­trait, you've seen them all." 
MARTHA: George, I've never asked anything of you before. But you have to promise me that I'll never hang in Boston. -WASHINGTON: (laughing) Martha, you worry too much. The Bostonians are too cheap to buy a Gilbert Stuart paintmg, much less a pair. 
MARTHA: Nevertheless, you must promise. 
WASHINGTON: All right, Martha, I promise. Gilbert, you're a witness. I never want our portraits to hang in a city that throws Coca-Cola bottles at opposing baseball teams. 
STUART: I couldn't agree with you more. I'd rather have my work hanging in Cleveland. That was the end of the tape, hut I believe it speaks for itself. 
(c) 1979, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board 

The news is reported as acLuratt'ly and as objectively as possible. Editorials EdHor·tn-chie( _.. _..Rosemary Mills Features Editor . -. Chris Stt·war, represem the opinlim of a majority of Managing Ediror . . . . . Diane Wilson Photo Editor . _ . . Doug Chnsuan 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Edirorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor . . . . . Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views ~f Senior Copy Editor __ . . . K. Connelly 
The Observer IS an independent their authors. Cllumn space IS avad· Exerutive News Editor. . .Mike Lewis Business Manager __ . . Steve Odland newspaper published by students of able to all members of the communit}, News Editor ......... Mark Rust Production Manag(""r . . . Tim Sullivan the University of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News EdHor _ . . .... Mike Shields Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters. is Saim Man·· s Editor _____ Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager . . .Bob Rud\ necessarilr rdlect the policies of the encouraged. Sports Editor . . Mark Perry Controller ........... John fucker 
_The Observer_ 
----------------------------------------~~~~~~--------­
--~-~-_......-~--------------------­
The Observer 
Thursday, Aprill9, 1979 -page 7 
............ _, 

Hunger Coalition compiles course review 
comptledby the Hunger opment of Latin America WEO 315 Evolution of Social Stress. is placed on problem­relation of the ethical theory to Coalition Jameson 2TT4 Consciousness in the New solving through t:ase study the Christian tradition? The An examination of the roots Testament Ford 9TT11 methoa. The conccpl ef social class time will be devoted to 
of dependence in Latin To enable the students to see justice is examined under the in-depth studies of the major America. An analysis of the the relevance of Biblical teach­Judeo-Christian prophetic cthic:.tl works of Aristotle, Notre Dame: key problems of economic ing today and to kindle within dimension. Admission to the John Staart-Mill and 
development and the policies them social concern. class based on interview. Immanuel Kant. After these AMST 262 American Society prescnbed for their solution. theories have been examined and Politics McGowan 
WEO 347 War-Peace-r1st. Fr. Edward D.Krause students will offer class ?re­/OMWF ENGL 325 Afro-American Revolution Yoder 1TT3 1TT3 3 credits Christianity sentations of the contempor­
An introductory American Literature Beard 2MWF--Classical typologies illus­and the Moral Life ary moral problems of homi­Studies course designed to Same as BLST 325 trated from the Crusades, cide or lying in public and -·. explore the development of just-war theories, and paci­private. American social forms and ENGL 374 The Chicano Novel fists; renewal Qf thought since An introductory study of the 
meaning of Christian morality Bio 103 Brother Larry
institutions from 1607 to 1865. Castro 9TT11 1940; theologies of revolution; 
First of rwo semesters. The course will be primarily models of responsible with­and personal integrity. A Stewart 9MWF/2MWF 4.0 ~eneric in approach: attempt­drawal. general overview of Christian Biology and Human Values 
BLST 234 Criminal Justice mg. above all else, to come to moral theory will be pre­This course is designed to an accurate and meaningful WEO 348 Seminar on sented. The theory will then examine the social implica­
Scott 10TT12 
description of the literary Non-Violence O'Leary 1TT3 be studied in application to 4 tions of biology. It is con­This course will examine the An inquiry into the nature of problem areas: truth-telling, structed for the non-science
formulation of criminal laws, genre. 
the application of such laws violence, its psychological and responsible citizenship, sexual major. Areas explored are morality, and one area chosen
and their impacts for criminals ENGL 390A Literature of social causes; the cultural and environment, food supply,
by the student. Both classical 
and non-criminals alike. Also, Ireland I Golden 9TT11 religious foundations of non­energy, and population. 
the political and . economic After a brief survey of violence;. tactics for coping and recent Christian sources nature of the due process of traditional Irish literature, with violent societies. · are . consulted through re­Soc 203 McKee law will be analyzed and mythologY. and history; this quired or recommended sup­9TT11!10TT12 3.0 Social studied causing a reformu­course wtll trace the interde­WEO 372 same as Govt 485 plementary reading. Problems lation of the concept of crim­pendent rise of Irish national­Walshe and Hommes This course examines inal justice itself. Ism and the literary revival. Hist 261 Dr. A. Black lOtt 2 various studies of problems 
WEO 374 Church and Social credits Contemporary Affairs facing contemporary society. BLST 325 Afro-American GOVT 452--same as BLST 452 Justice McNeil 3Tu6 Although history majors are In part, delinquency, rehabil­To reflect on the social w~lcome to take this class, this itation, and bureaucracy are
Literature Beard 2MWF 
GOVT 485--same as BLST 485 teachings of the Catholic course is designed especially included.
Beginning with African oral tradition and ending with the Church in relationship to cur­for,non-majors who are inter­
days immediately preceding PHIL 274 Moral Problems rent experiences of the Church ested in deepening their his­Soc 230 Pilger 9TT11 3.0 the Harlem Renaissance, we Wachsberg 1MWF, 2MWF social ministry is the purpose torical perspective on current Social Welfare Policy will examine the black human The course seeks to explore of this course. affairs, both domestic and The process of working experience. the natur~ of ~orality thro~gh international. Some of the through the policy-making and 
the constderauon of specific THEO 379 Reflections on subjects studied in recent activation is the major empha­moral problems. Student Volunteer Corp semesters have been Northern sis of this course.
BLST 371 Psychology of 
McNeil Ireland, the Mideast andPrejudice Sebastian 10TT12 
Topics to be covered: The PHIL 276 Political Philosophy To discover the Christian Watergate. Soc 305 Horning 9TT11 development, cause, expres­Sterba llMWF significance of. -compassion business and Society sions, and consequences of The aim of this course is to and helping in relationship to Hist 354 Dr. Rita Cassidy Cross-listed with Business prejudice are exammed main­provide a critical comparison volunteer service activities in 4TT6 2-3 credits Southern 346 ly from a social psychological of the conceptions of justice the community will be the Africa 
found in the contemporary purpose of this course. Film, guest lecturers, the Soc 352 Tarleton 9TT11
persepctive. political-economic ideals of writings of black and white Urban Sociology 
THEO 381 same as Phil 381 Africans, my own slide collec­BLST354 Southern Africa (at Marxism, Liberalism and Con­tions and scrap books areSt. Mary's) Cassidy 4TT6 servati&m. 
major resource materials for The special study of cities BLST 452 Southern African PHIL 381 War/Law/Ethics this course. I will also invite and their particular needs and Sterba, O'Leary, Yoder St. Mary's: Mr. Borengasser, of the Bus­problems is the basis for this
Walshe 2TT4 
10TT12 iness and Economics Depart­course.
A· study of national movements, political institu­An interdisciplinary course Buec 346 Horning D 9TT11 ment, to share with us the 
insights he gained during his Soc 352 Tarleton 10n·12tions and government policies concerns the morality and Business and Society 3 
in the Republic ofSouth Africa legality of war; history of just credits six week trip to the Republic of Perspectives on Gerontology and neighboring counrries; war theory and pacifism; A ·systematic 'anmysis and South Africa. It is an unfortunate dilemma 
' 

Rhodesia, Nambia, international conventions of evaluation of the culrural and of our society that our elderly Mozambique and Angola; "crimes of war"; limits of social factors which shape the Phz/224 W.. Hawk 12MWF are the forgotten people. This racial tensions within particu­obedience; war crimes and role of business in our society. Philosophy of Law is a course that examines the lar territories; the contronta­trials; U.S. military policy; Materials drawn from other According to Griffin Bell, sociology of aging. tion between the indeJ?endent ri~hts of non-combatants, societies are used as a basis Attorney General of the U.S., 
states of tropical Afnca and pnsoners, neutrals. for comparison. Illustrative America is the most litigated Spc 373 McKelvey llMWF the white dominated South; topics include: organizational society to ever exist on earth. Sociology of Crime and Delin­Southern Africa in internation­SOC 232 Social P.roblems structure, power, authority, Issues once perceived to be a quency al affairs, and United States Binkley 10TT12 · social responsibilty, organiza­matter of religious; commun­A ilocial problem that foreign policy. The definition of a social tional behavior, ethics. ity, familial or personal disci­requires consideration of 
problem varies greatly de­pline are more and more environment, rehabilitation, BLST 485 Hope and Human pending upon one's social Buec 355 Borengasser R finding their way into the and policy is the subject of this Condition Walshe/Hommes status, economic level, educa­10TT12 Contemporary Econ­judicial structures of our course. 9TT11 tional level, and social con­omic Issues 3 credits society. The emerging social 
An interdisciplinary course sciousness. This course will Investigation of current importance of law makes Psych 209 Miller 3Th5
an in political economy and theol­provide a framework for sort­economic issues such as med­understanding of it essential Dehumanizing Forces tn ogy designed to study and mg through various concep­ical care, poverty, consumer to anyone who is going to be a Society critique some human efforts to tions about social problems. protection and some present well-informed member of The increased emphasis of restructure society in accord and proposed policies to com­society. The purpose of the technology in our lives has 
with a religious and moral SOC 234-same as BLST 234 bat these problems. course is to acqmre a philo­caused a great deal of alien­vision of hope. sophical understanding of law. ation. Topics studied that SOC 315 Class, Politics, Hust-Phil 300 Malits, This of course involves a illustrate this are, nuclear 
ECON357 Human Resources Power Lewis 2TT4 McDonnell, Mandell, serious discussion of the energy, corporate policy, and and Labor Markets A study of classical Schlesinger The Catholic nature of law. However, the consumer action. 
Podgursky 10TT12 stratification theorists, com­Vision 2 credits major portion of the course An analysis oflabor markets, parative stratification An interdisciplinary course will be spent on concrete the determination of wages systems, processes of social examining the following: the problems rdating to liberty, and employment and such mobility, political economy; relationship berween culture JUStice, responsibility and 
topics as education, poverty, subjugated strata in American and Christianity, cultural punishment. human capital and the opera­soctety, especially blacks and Christian forms (ex: through tion of manpower programs in women. art), social justice from the Phz/341 W. Hawk 9TT11 this country and other coun­Catholic perspective, and Ethics 
tries. ANTH 461 World Regional Christian love as the basis of In this course we will study ECON 380 Developmen't . Geography Brehob 2TT4 human relations as seen the three most importaat ethi­Economics Newfarmer World Regional Geography through literature. cal theories originating in the llMWF involves the study of the Western Philosophical Trad­
After drawing on economic physical, cultural, economic, R1st 353 Fr. David Murphy ition: An Aristotelian Natural­and political history to clarify and political patterns of the 5:30-8:00 Tues. 3 credits ism, Utilitarianism, and th~ Jresent predicament of earth's resources. Theological Dimension of Kantism. We will ask specific 
Th1r World Countries, the Business Ethics questions of these theories: course focuses on major issues THEO 242 Christian Ethics This course is designed to What makes an action right or in economic and political Today Malloy lMWF provide business majors with wrong? What makes a moral modernization. This course is intended as an a theological background agent good or bad? What is 


introduction to the discipline agains.t which economic theor­the path to human well-being ECON 484 Economic Devel-of Christian Ethics. ies and practices are judged. (happiness)? and What is the 
-----.-~--~---------------,-~ 
Features 

THE BEST OF CHICAGO 
Chicago is ... my kind of town 
according to Frank Sinatra ... to others, 
the ~ity that works ... the hog butcher 
of the mid-west according to Carl 
Sandbur~ ... the windy city ... and for 
those visiting the city this weekend ... it 
is "still crazy after all these years." 
Welcome to the Palmer House, 
located in the heart of "The Loop" on 
Monroe and State streets. Withm the 
Palmer House there is the famous 
Trader Vic's and the Empire Room for 
dining. · 
SHOPS ... just blocks away ... 
Marshall Field & Co.: Owned by 
Chicago's oldest family in merchan­
dise. A department store with 
everyone in mind. Located on State & 
Wabash. 
Michigan Avenue-Take a walk down 
the lane which is filled with cute shops 
and great stores. Keep heading north 
to Water Tower which is the famous 
mall stacked high with stores galore! 
Bring a credit card! ! ! 
Pomt yourself towards the lake and 
watch for Oak street which is lined 
with bouti~ues and small restaurants. 
A terrific ' people-watching'' street. 
SIGHTSEEING AND THINGS TQ DO: 
Chicago's Loop Tour-Sat. & Sun. 2 o'clock. Two hour tour of significant architecture, traces the history of the skyscraper, highlighting Chicago's unique contributions to modern build­in~ arts. Meet at Archicenter, 310 S. MIChigan 2nd floor $3 (782-1776) Art Institute: Known for one of the finest collections of French Impres­sionist. Plus excellent examples of painting & sduptures from all periods mcluding modern art. Fri/Sat. 10·5 p.m. Sunday Noon-5p.m. Michigan & Adams St. (443-3600) 
john G. Shedd Aquan·um-"Home of 
the Paddlefish''. Contains a fasinating world of underwater creatures. Pre­days are free. 1200 S. Lake Shore Dr. Sears Tower-Waker Drive bounded by Adams. Jackson, and Franklin. World's tallest building with 110 stories. 103rd floor "sky deck" -to 
rea~'.•; <it"~ tht' city. 
Brookfield Zoo-The zoo has a rart~~ of exhibitS that show natural hunting, feeding and exploratory behavior of 
animals of all kinds. 
During the spring, there are steam trains that travel the park's perimeter. 
Open 10-5-$1. 50-parking $1.00. Located at First Ave. and 31st St. Brookfield. (242-2630) call for direct­IOns. 


To ask or not to ask, that is the question! Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to take offense against the rejections and refusals cast forth by a sea of ND women. 
The formal season is upon us! Male hearts jump! Excitement, apprehen­sion, anticipation and fear fill the air. Who do I ask? Why do I ask? How do I ask? Shattered egos, untested cour­age, daydreams never realized, hopes unfulfilled are but a few of the characteristics of this jolly time. 
These thoughts and questions plague the male mmd in endless hauntmg exercise. 
Their answer is always the same. "What the hell," says he, "ask anyone, but at least ask!'' We all know the hardest pan is in the asking. We also know that the chances are she' II say yes, but convincing our timid egos is another story. 
"Well, even if I decide to try, who do I ask?" Try the ·girl who always comes to mind while you rest in bed, staring at the wire mesh forming the under­pinning of your roommate's bunk. You know--the one that just happens to sit 27 rows behind you in your 600 person basic Intro to Economics class. 
"Oh her," exclaims the ego, "she'll never say yes.'' ''Give it a shot,'' yells the id, "I haven't had a woman in six months!" 
"Why do I ask?" A formal gives you the perfect excuse. No strings attached! The girl doesn't feel threatened by your desire for a relationship. You just want to go and have a good time. Formals are to college what apple pie and Moms are to America. But we know better, don't we guys? If she agrees and if we play our cards right, we might have the beginnings of something we always wanted: a sexual life at Notre Dam<:. 
We got the who and we got the why, now the how! The best strategy calls for a non-committal approach. How can I pop the question m such ~ way that ifl am rejected, it won't seem that way. Conversational example; 
Boy; Yea, the idea of Boing to my formal has crossed my mmd. _But, I'd like to go with someone I could have a good time with and not feel the pressure of a forced relationship. Someone very similar to yourself would be nice. · 
Girl, (Here's the crucial response! Unless she's totall) ignorant, the hint will be re< • i" ·J and the proper informativ(-reply will be given. A reply, which done with :t little tact, will give you an answer without direct rejewon.) Why, thank you! 
But, euough of theories. The time has come! She approaches on the 
Mike Cervini 
opposite path. It's now or never! Heart pounds, pulse races, mind swirls, one deep breath--here we go! Wait! The super ego has fainted! Id and ego work fevenshly to resuscitate their counterpart. She's here! He's bif:k! Thank God! 
"Hi Mary Lou." "Hi Mark." "How are you?" "Fine." You silently curse yourself for such a stupid opening line, 
while  praying  the  rest  will  go  per­ 
fectly.  You finally ask.  She agrees.  
You'll  call  her?  She  says  O.K.  

Good byes are exchanged and you· re off! The path ahead seems shorter and a tree you never noticed before comes into view. 
Oh, che trials and tribulations of the NO man! God, the women have it easy! And they don't even realize what we go through for them. Please, help us out! Flaunt your availability! 
By the way, the thoughr of going to the St. Ed's formal had crossed my mind....................... ? 



The Observer Thursday, April19, 1979 -page 10 

\ 
WATCH THE TASTEBUDS (IN ACTUAL COMMERCIALS) ON "SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE/" 
r-----------~----------------------------------------------~---------------------------~-----­
The Observer 

Ethical crises grow in UScolleges 

BERKELEY,CA even more reluctant to insist on (AP)--Cheating, stealing, mis-ethical conduct by students and 
. use of financial aid, grade-infla­even more likely to engage in tion and misleading advertising improper conduct themselves,'' are creating a growing ethical the report warns. crisis in American colleges and The report said 13 percent of universities, the ·Carnegie student loans made by one Council on Policy Studies m federal program and 17 percent Higher Education warned yes· by another are in default, and terday. the rate of nonrepayment of 
"Most institutions of higher veteran's loans is 44 percent. education, to a small or large Almost 22,000 student bor­degree, exhibit one or more of rowers filed for bankruptcy to these destructive aspects," the avoid repaying loans, it added. council said in an 86-page "With regard to cheating, 8.8 report discussed yesterday m percent of undergraduates re­Washington at the annual port that some forms of cheat­meeting of the American Asso­mg are necessary to get the ciation of Higher Education. 8rades they want. That is an 
"We see certain signs of mcrease of 1. 3 percentage deterioration of important parts points since 1969," the council of academic life ... We are con· said. cerned," the report said. The council said a survey 
The situation is of special found theft and mutilation of concern right now, the council periodicals is a serious problem said, because of the prospective •at 80 percent of the institutions frantic search by faculty mem­studied. • bers, departments and colleges In addition, the report took 
· for more students in the 1980s students and professors to take and 1990s. for "a substantial misuse by 
''Unless corrective actions are students of public financial taken, this situation is likely to aid ... inflation of grades by fa­lead some students to take even culty members ... competitive greater advantage of the situa­awarding of academic credits tion, and to make some colleges by some departments and some 
• • • Records 
[continued from page 2]
filled the record sale order. . . "The problems with the sale came about because there was JUSt tO? great a demand and too little time to fill that demand,'' Roche said. 
"The sale was successful, but ultimatey I didn't find the sale satisfactory and neither did some of the students beca:use. of ~he difficulties involved with a single event approach to distnbutmg records," Roche noted. 
The present proposal is essentially a continuous record sale. Students will be able to place. orders f~r albums five days a week at the Ticket Office. Records will be delivered about a week after the 
order is placed. . . 
Reid commented that the proposal does not. d~al wtth. spec.tfics, and added that if passed, the Servic.es CommtssiOn, whtcfi will ~e directly responsible for the store, wtll have to work out the details 
with Reid's office. . . . . 
''The purpose of this third proposal 1~ to obf~m p~rm~ss10n to establish a record outlet," Roche explamed. Details hke costs and actual administration will have to be worked out between Student Union and Student Activities Office," he added. 
Roche and Hench who drafted the third proposal, presented the plan to the Studen't Union Steering Committee for endorsement before bringing it to the Board of Commissioners for aP,proval. 
Student Union Director hamel echoed Roche's evaluation of the role of the record sale in determining the character nature of the ~ro~~~. . 
''The record sale not only demonstrated a need for an a~ternanve record store, but also shows that students can handle thts type of operation efficiently,'' he said. 
institutions for insufficient and inadequate work ... inflated and misleading advertising by some 
institutions  in  the  search  for  
students.  
Despite  the  problems,  the  

report said higher education has greatly expanded equality of opportunity. It saic the percentage of blacks enrolled in colleges and universities in­creased from 4.6 percent in 1967 to 10.7 percent in 1976, women from 34.9 to 43.2 per­cent and low-income persons from 20 to 22.4 percent. 
ARmANDO'S 
BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 1437 N .Ironwood Dr. South Bend 
277-0615 

Sue, Ruthie, Kim 
Armando-stylist mon-wed-fri ·8-5:30 
tues-thurs 8-Spm sat 8-2
by appt.only sat-no appt. needed 
Thursday, April19, 1979 -page 11 
Religious television 
Paid programs dominate 
NEW YORK (AP) --Paid religious television shows by indtvidual performers are dn­ving public-service programs backed by the nation's major faith off the air, a new study finds. It says the shift has "narrowed" the output. 
The situation, surmised in the industry for some time, was statistically documented in a study of broadcast patterns over the last 20 years on a cross-section of the country's TV outlets.. 
The trend "has considerably narrowed the sources and con­tent of religious programming'' in America, says the jomt report by Protestant, Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox representatives. 
It was submitted to the Fed­
eral Communications Commis­
sion, appealing for restoration 
of its former policy of crediting 
stations in seeking license· re­
newals for carrymg unpaid, 
sustaining programs. 
Blaming abandonment of that 
policy in 1960 for the "marked 
reduction in the diversity of 
program service," the report 
cites the sharp rise in commer­
cial shows and steep decline in 
those representing the main 
religious bodies of U.S. com­
munities. 
The study found that paid 
religious TV broadcasts have climbed from about half the total in 1959 to 92 percent now, while public-service religious prog­rams have fallen from about 
half to just 8 percent. 
''The paid programs are dis­
tinctly different from the sus­
taining programs they have replaced both in content and source,'' the report says, noting that none of the paid shows represent mainline Protestant, Jewish or Catholic organiza­tions. 
''Without sustaining pro· grams, television cannot pre· sent a balanced representation of the major faiths that move the American people." 
The re_{lort was prepared by commumcations offices of the 
U.S. Catholic Conference, the National Council of Churches, made up of Protestant and Orthodox denominations, and the United Church of Christ. 
For example, the report cites CBS's dropping in ] anuary of the two most honored. high quality religious shows on net­work television, "Look Up and Live" and "Lamp Unto My Feet.'' 
They had been on the air for a quarter century, prepared in cooperation with major reli­gious bodies and formerly wide­ly used on network affiliates. But their usage had fallen sharply recently, replaced by paid religious shows and finally driven out of existence. 
However, in the face of wide­spread distress in church cir­cles, CBS since has decided to initiate a new sustaining-time religion program on Sunday morning, "For Our Time," beginning April 29, dealing with ethics and faith. 
"It's a second chance, and the churches have promised to get behind it and give it a little more support," said Pamela Ilott, CBS vice president and executive producer for religious and cultural affairs programs. 
All bicycles stored at the stadium over winter must be picked up. 
Where: Gate 14-Stadium Time: Wed, Thurs, Fri 


April18,19,20 lto4pm 
•·----------~~=====================:=:;~ 
The Notre Dame Student Players 
and Student Union Culturai.Atts Commission 
proudly present 
===~DOUBLE~~==
EXPOS 
It • ~ 
,. 

AComedy by Jack Sharkey 
Thurs-Fri., Apri119-20 8:OOpm Mon-Tues., April23-24 8:OOpm LaFortune Basement (N AZZ ) Gdmlaalon Sl.OO 


~--_-----_--_~-----=-------__~--=----~~=--~_-==----_---__-~ 
I r  The Observer  Thursday, April19, 1979-page 12  
'  
Congressional team opens  
hearing on alleged fallout  


SALT LAKE CITY (AP) ­Nearly two decades after the last open-air nuclear test in Nevada, a congressional team begins an investigation today into claims that radioactive fallout caused cancer in people living downwind in Utah, Arizonia and Nevada. 
If an informal hearing earlier in southern Utah is any indicat­ion, the committtee can expect testimony from angry people who either have cancer or lost relatives and friends to the disease. 
Irene Allen told of losing two husbands to cancer. Ilene Prosstgaard, whose father died of cancer last year, said, "I wish someone had some answer'' 
"A crime has been committed in our state," said Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Ut, who sponsored 

MAKE SURE YOUR VACATION DOESN'T TAKE OFF WITHOUT YOU. 
There's nothing lonelier than being left behind at vacation time. 
That's why we've got Continental Reps right on campus. Our travel specialists fill you in on schedules, discount airfares, tours and routes. And save you from calling all over town to get the right flight at the right price. 
Whether you're heading home or off to that special vacation, talk to your Campus Rep. Ask about our "Let Yourself Go" charge card too. We'll show you the best way for your vacation to take off. With you there to enjoy it. 
Your Campus Rep is Don Ciancio (219) 283-4682. 
The Proud Bird with the GoldenTail. 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES • 
North America/Hawaii/Micronesia/Orient/Australia/NewZealand/Fyi/Samoa 
the town meeting Tuesday night and vowed to seek special legislation awarding compen­sation to bomb test victims. 
Today's hearing was sparked by millions of dollars in claims from 550 persons, mostly Utah residents. 
It has not been proven that fallout from the test caused cancer in anyone. More than 4,000 sheep died after one series in 1953, but the Army denied fallout killed them. 
The congressional panel, whose cochairmen are Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-MA, and Rep. Bob Eckhardt, D-TX, will try to determine whether fallout 
caused the cancers and whether the government must make amends. 
The congressional panel also will explore allegations that the Atomic Energy Commission, the DDE's predecessor, covered up evidence of higher-1 than-normal levels ofplutonium in Utah soil from atomic tests. 
Dr. Joseph Lyon, Co-director of the Utah Cancer Registry, said he will testify that leu­kemia deaths amongh children in southern U tab were 2. 5 times higher during the blasts than before or after. 
Pro-Aminforces cause violence in Uganda 
KAMPALA, Uganda (AP) -­Troops still loyal to Idi Amin are 1reported killing officials in eas-­tern Uganda believed sympa­thetic to the new government in ! Kampala. 
With the invasion force of Tanzanian troops and Ugandan exiles still preparing to extend the new government's authority to northern and eastern Uganda, the deposed presi­dent's forces were reported on a murderous rampage in the eastern city of Tororo, near the Kenyan border. 
It was believed that pro-Amin Moslems were also killing members of Christian tribes in the area in retaliation for Chris­tian murders of Moslems after the fall of Kampala to the invaders last weekend. That outbreak of killings was in retaliation for massacres of the Christians by Amin's Moslem 
supporters  during  his  eight  
years in power.  
The  whereabouts  of  Amin  

remained a mystery. Various reports, none conflrmed, put him in Libya, Sudan, Iraq, Zaire or still inside Uganda, possibly in the northwestern corner of the country where he was born. Meanwhile, Tanzanian com­mandos made a dash of some 50 miles to the east of Kampala to secure the Owen Falls dam and power plant on the Nile River. The plant produces all of Ugan­da's electricity and 15 percent of the power used in Kenya, and there had been fears that Amin's men would blow it up. 
l.Duie's Special 3 B€€RS ~OR $1 8pm till? 


----~ ----~--~----~ 
The Observer Thursday, April19, 1979 -page 13 

[continued from page 1] Hesburgh praised the many office buildings is also included donors who ''dus. deeply and • • in the physical facilites compo­sacrificed to contnbute to Notre 
, , , Court : and a secretary for 1979-80 :
nent of the endowments. Dame and be a Jart of it." He Funds for current use by the especially laude the support of -----------. ch 1 • University total $8.7 million. the Saint Joseph's Valley com­[continued from page 1] : S 00 year. • 
Hesburgh said that the Uni­munity. 
as a liar, injuring his reputa-• :
versity is still seeking funding South Bend has the second­for the new dorms, but added largest contigent ofNotre Dame ti;hen Herbert's lawyers tried: pAID POSITIONS : 
that he is ''completely confi­alumni in the country. The to question Lando, the producer • Call offt'ce at 7047 between 1-Spm •dent we'll have a few surprises group already has raised $4.9 
refused -to answer questions • • in the next few weeks." million of its S5.4 million goal. 
about the editorial process, how : • he decided what to use and. printing experience desired • 
what not to use in the telecast. • • In his 23-page opinion, White e but not necessary :
... Talks 
sa!d, ''According ~ ~bsolute e • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
pnvdege to the edltortal pro­[continued from page 1] namese, and it is a pleasure cess of a media defendant to a which I am glad to turn over to libel case is not required,
Kissinger, speaking on ) apa­the Chinese. II authorized or presaged by our
nese television, said, "I went 11
prior cases.
through four excruciating years Kissinger, who represented 
r Fox's.,
of negotiating with the Viet-the United States at Paris peace talks aimed at ending the U.S. 
Billy joel
role in the Vietnam War, said DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERSErratum in the case of the current talks, the problem is not that the two tickets still JEWELERS SINCE 1917 
The course, "Evolutionary parues do not understand each Town & Country and Concord Mall,
Images of Humanity,'' will be other. 
available also University Park Mall 
offered in the fall semester as ''They understand each other
part of the College of Arts and Good seats are still available 1 0-9 Blackmond 's, daily, 9:30-5 
very well. The Chinese wantLetters curriculum. Students 
for the Billy Joel Concert at the
from all four colleges may the Vietnamese to stay within Special15% Discount On 
ACC on Fnday. Tickets may be 
their national borders and theenroll in the class. It had been 
purchased at the ACC Ticket
Vietnamese do not want to do Merchandise To Notre Dameerroneously reported in yester­
Office and the usual River City
so,II he said. 
day's Observer that the course 
Review outlets. Tickets are 
had not yet been finalized, The Chinese response to Viet­& St. 's Students.
$10.00 and $8.50 for seats
nam:s proposal was not im­when in fact, it definitely will be 
located behind the stage. 
mediately known.
offered. 
The warm spring weather, quiet woods and winding paths around campus provide an environment (or improving your health and relaxing your mind. [Photo 6y Dave Rumbach] 
Placelllent Bureau 
Attention all liberal arts seniors or graduate students with liberal arts background: interviews will be held Tuesday, 
April 24,  by  the  following  divisions  of General  Motors  
Corporation:  
--GMC.  Cadillac Divisioin.  Location:  Detroit, MI.  For:  

Production Supervision and Data Processing. 
--GMC. Assembly Division. Location: Primarily Midwest. For: Production Supervision. 
--GMC. Electro-Motive Division. Location: LaGrange, IL. For: Production Supervision. 
--GMC. Central Office. Location: Detroit, MI. For: Personnel. 
• • • Catnpaign 
In Lee Marvin case 
Settlem.ent satisfies both parties 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -the first instance in the United port or a share of his millions. 
Michelle Triola Marvm, the Marshall noted that Miss
States where a judge had unmarried woman who claimed awarded the equivalent of . Marvin ''enjoyed a fine home, Lee Marvin owed her $1.8 alimony to a woman without a traveled throughout the world million, was awarded $104,000 marriage license. ... acquired whatever clothes, yesterday by a judge who said He noted the judge specified' furs and cars she wished and she needed help to rebuild her that Miss MArvin's $104,000 engaged in a social life among life after a long love affair with would be equilivalent to the screen and stage luminaries. 
the actor. highest scale she ever earned "Such services as she has 
Although the award was far­as a singer -$1,000 a week· for rendered would appear to have Jess than the amount Miss two years. been conpensated,'' Marshall Marvin had sought -which she But Marshall's ruling was said. claimed was half his income also harsh on Miss Marvin , He rejected her contention 
during the six years they lived pointing out inconsistc.H.:ies in that Marvin's promises were a together -she said she was her testimony and supporting contract to share. In show 
''excited to get something'' and Marvin's contention that he business, he said, words of love viewed it as a victory for never promised lifetime sup-are cheap. 
women. · But she said she is disil­lusioned about love affairs. "I 
··············••+••······i··········
~ members of the St. Jose ,;h's County :
think if a man wants to leave a toothbrush at my house, he can 
* * 
bloody well marry me,'' she ~ BLOOD PRESSURE ~ said. "Enough is enough. II 
* * 
Marvin likewise saw the : CONTROL PROGRAM : 
ruling as a victory. ''I think it's sensational,'' the actor said at *: WANTTOCHECKYOUOUT· Haveittaken :* 
his home in Tucson, AZ. Superior Court Judge Arthur 
: Friday, April 20th 8-11 am student Health :
Marshall, in a decision which will serve as a guideline in : Center : similar cases, reached outside the rigid requirements of con­: * 11:15-1:15 1stfloor Lafortune lobby : * 
tract law to grant Miss Marvin what he called "an equitable ~ * 
remedy. II * * 
: 1 :30-5:00 Memorial library Concours :
''The court in equity awards plaintiff $104,000 for rehabilit­ation purposes,'' Marshall said, * *
*••·························••+••••*
"so that she may have the economic means to re-educate herself and to learn new, employable skills ... so that she may return from her status as companion of a motion picture star to a separate, independent, but perhaps more prosaic existence.'' 
Marvin's attorney, A. David Kagon, said the judge's 33· page decision sustained Mar­vin's contention that he never had a contract with Miss Mar­vin, but Kagon admitted that Miss Marvin's lawyer, Marvin Mitchelson, had offered to set­tle the case earlier for $60,000. 
Both Mitchelson and Kagon said appeals of Marshall's rul­ing are unlikely. 
Mitchelson, who fought the 
case through ~any appeals for • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
seven years, satd he was pleas-• d~a~~·t· called the outcome ''a:  CAMPUS PRESS  • :  
He said he believes this  was  •  e  
=======  : Positions open for 2 printers  :  

APPLICATIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR POSITION OF DIRECTOR 


~­

... 
------------------. 
The Observer -Sports Thursday, April19, 1979 -page 14 
Gymnasts establish themselves in Midwest 
byBnan McLaughlin 
This Notre Dame Gymnastics Team established itself as a growing gymnastics power by defeating Purdue and Indiana in the first annual Golden Grips Classic. Notre Dame outscored host Purdue 185.81 to 154.87, 
with  the  women's  team  
accounting  for  34.03  of  that  
diference.  The IU  women did  

well to come within two points of the ND women, but since IU had no men's team, they were defeated by 10l. SO points in the team tally. 
To negate the advantage the Irish had in depth and numbers over the smaller Purdue and Indiana squads, only the· top three scores for each team in each event were counted in the team totals. Looking at the total team scores, the Irish men outscored the Boilermakers by 12 points while the Irish women outscored the Purdue women by 46.68 and Indiana by 15.58. 
The men's competition began with vaulting. Entered in this event were Dave Petrillo, Dan Howley, Bob Meehan, and· Brian McLaughlin, and took third through sixth place respectively. 
The second event, pommel horse, proved to be the stron~­est event for the Irish. Louts DeLeon took first place in the event with a fine performance. Immediately following DeLeon were Petrillo in second and Meehan in third. Also placing well was McLaughlin in sixth place. 
McLaughlin went first on floor exercise, but his score didn't count because he had to perform an exhibition. McLaughlin scored what would have been fifth place. As it stands, however, Steve Reifenberg took third place,. Howley took forth, Petrillo took fifth and Meehan, sixth. Meehan showed a supreme act of courage as he badly injured his ankle on his opemng pass, but continued his routine with­out favorin~ his injured ankle. 
John Paultk was the highlight of the rings, performing .many strength moves including an impressive "Iron Cross": He was awarded third place. Joe Skovira and Brian McLaughlin, also performing well, took fifth and sixth places respective!} , while Meehan was able to place seventh despite a stumble on his dismount due to his ankle. 
Joe Skovira gave an excellent performance on parallel bars to 
The Daily Crossword 

Molarity
,-




th€ notR€ oam€ kntqhts 
or columBUS anb th€ l.abt€S orCOlUmBUS 
CORblally JnVlt€ th€ 
45 Scholarly 18 Nourish types 23 Jai ­48 Sally Rand 26 Pie: Fr. 

item 26 Iron hook 49 Made amends 27 -ben Adhem 60 Food shop, 28 Music of 
for short a kind 61 Black bird 29 Almost­54 Judge's extinct 
bench transport 56 Poker 30 Hide for 
holding safekeeping 68 Wertmuller 32 Seals 59 Pitcher 33 Hastens 60 Ghostly 34 Ash, for 61 Unusual one 
bloke 35 Mo. 62 Says "I do" 40 Sharpen 63 Cookout 41 Had more of 
an audience 
DOWN 42 Sprue~.1 Deal (with) for one 2 Tale-teller 44 Page3 Inter-45 Picasso 
4 Debussy orCasals 
subject 46 Tin, in 5 Micah, e.g. Toulouse 6 Tiffs 47 English
7 Val, for poet one 48 Phobias 8 O'Neill's 60 Changedthe was hairy color of 9 Cosmetic 51 -mater 10 Heralds 52 Sale-tag
11 Actor Delon words 12 Inclination 53 See40D 13 Elephant's-56 Be in debt ears 07 Zodiac sign 

Michael Molinelli 

WEEKEND RETREAT 
Fri, april27 -----. to Sun. april29 Lake Michigan Cottage Fr. John Fitzgerald for info: call6536 
an 
ca~ 
miniStry 
capture first place with a 
routine that included a front flip 
between the bars and a back 
flip dismount. Meehan and 
Howley received fourth and 
fifth places respectively. 
Notre Dame finishec}strongly 
on High Bar, with McLaughlin 
taking second place and Howley 
taking fourth. Both dismounted 
with back flyaways. Meehan 
also did well, taking sixth place. 
In the all-around results, Bob 
Meehan was able to overcome 
his pain enough to finish 
second. Howley, Petrillo, and 
McLuaghlin finished fourth, 
fifth, and sixth respectively, 
although if McLaughlin's floor 
routine had counted, he would 
have finished fourth. 
The women were competing at the same time as the men and doing even better. The first event for the women was floor exercise. Competing in this event were Jody DiDonato, Tracy Keating, and, from St. Mary's Roberta DePiero. DePeiro started the meet off well by taking second in this event. Keating was forced to improvise the end of her routing, but did well and finish­ed sixth. 
Entered in vaulting were 
Butzer, DePiero, DiDonato, 
Keating and Larkin. A~ain the 
Irish gave a good showtng with 
DePetro in third place, Keating 
in fourth, and DeDonato in 
seventh. 

The ND women finished stongly on the uneven bars. Keating, with many impressive .tricks, took fourth place. DePiero took fifth and Jacobsen, seventh. 
Balance beam was the strongest for the Irish women. DePiero and Patty Larkin, also from St. Mary's, took second and third places, DePiero ope~­ing with an excellent splu handstand and Larkin dis­mounting with an excellent cartwheel-back flip. Keating, Joan Jacobsen, and Lynette Butzer took fifth, sixth, and seventh places. many 
The all-around standing showed the depth and talent of the Irish women. DePiero captured second place, Keating took third, and Larkin, fifth. All the women gave fine perfor­mances and they really made the difference in the meet. Scoring 86.04 total points, they defeated IU by 1. 7 3 points and crushed Purdue by 34.03. 
Looking at not only the top three scores in each event but all the scores will show the strength of the women's. T~ey outscored IU by 15.58 potnts and Purdue by 46.68 points. 
... Pullano's 
[continued from page 16] 
spirit has really been inspirat­ional." 
Pullano has not missed a start since he was inserted in the lineup early in the spring of his freshman year. His average has improved annually, batting .329, .340 and .356 in three full campaigns. He'll really have to go on a tear, against tough competition, to ratse that mark again this season. But, if there are any doubters out there, I'll give you even money that Rick does it again. For he's managed to set himself apart from the crowd with a special mixture ofclass, determination, and pride in a job well done. 
ACROSS 1 Vise 6 Bridgebid 
10 Spar 14 Cargo vessel 15 Hemingway, to friends 16 Loganor Fitzgerald 17 Poker holding 19 European 
river 20 Age 21 Singer 
Seeger 22 Vegas house 24 "For-a 
jolly ..." 

26 Special abilities 26 Showed horror 30 Packaging 
stuff 31 Circa 32 Poker 
holdings 36 Ump'scall 37 Clocheor 
fedora 38 Ireland 39 Poker 
holding 42 Slangy undesirable 43 Fromhand to­44 Pamper 

ll-::'+-=-+*•*'+*t~-*ffl-e-!1 a,:;;;;;:;;;i;;i;:iiii:;;i;;i;;;;:;;i;;::::ii:;~~ 
• I 


S~ortsbriefs 

Fair weather has graced the bookstore tournament thus far, with the sunshine hopef1flly continuing through the week. [Photo by Dave Rumbach] 
... Irish nine 
[continued from page 16] 
Jamieson came home to score 
on an error by the Butler 
shortstop. 
Pullano and Jamieson strung together singles again in the fourth, and once again a miscue by .the Butler shortstop cost the VISitors a run. 
Three Butler runs in the second inning of the finale forced the Irish to play catch-up ball. Notre Dame was trying to even its record at 10-10, but mana~ed just four hits while droppmg the 7-2 decision. 
The Irish entertained the University of Detroit over the weekend, and it was more of the same. This time, the Irish dropped the opener 6-1 before coming back for a night­cap 8-6. 
Mike Bobinski was handed his first loss of the campaign. Bobinski yielded five runs in six innings, but only two were earned, thanks to five Notre Dame errors. The Irish managed but three hits. 
Notre Dame scored three in the fourth, five in the fifth, and added a pair in the sixth to come from behind to beat the Titans 8-6 in the second game. Henry Valenzuela went 3-for-4 for the Irish, driving in three runs. Sophomore Jim Montagano belted a solo home­run. 
Mike Kenahan was the win­ner in relief. The senior righthander turned in four and two-third innings, allowing just one earned run. Vuono sealed the victory by retiring the final two hitters. 
Mike Deasey posted his fourth victory in as many dec­isions when he went six innings in Notre Dame's 16-3 win over Northwood Institute. The rout avenged Notre Dame's 7-4 loss in the first game. 
The Irish scored seven times in the fourth, and coasted the rest of the way. Rick Pullano, Dave Barrish and Mark Simendinger each stroked three hits for Notre Dame, and Dan Voellinger went 2-for-3. 
Thursday, Apri119, 1979 -page 15 
Irish ruggers reach quarterfinals in St. Louis Ruggerfest tourney 
by Rich Harper and Kevin Connor 

Another chapter was added to 
the Irish ruggers' success story 
this past weekend, as the "A" 
team advanced to the quarter­
finals of the highly esteemed 
St. Louis Ruggerfest. 
The ruggers stamina was 
tested, as they were called upon 
to play three games ~~ the 
opening day of competition. 
They were victorious in the first 
two but suffered a tough loss in 
the 'third, dropp!ng them from 
further competition. 
In the first round of play, the 
Irish breezed to an easy shutout 
over the local St. Louis Univer­
sity rugby club. Action w~s 
highlighted by trys fr~m Kevtn 
Corcoran · Bnan Hamgan, and · 
freshman' Brian Tucker. An 
extra point was added by Mike Allair. 
A mere hour and a half after 
the close of the first game, the Irish donned their spikes again ' to take on a highly touted Black Sheep rugby club. The game was a grudge match for Notre Dame who suffered a defeat to the s~me team in their last meeting a year ago. The Bl~ck Sheep JUmped off to a qu1ck 
lead, 4-0, in the first half. 
The Irish regained their com­
posure in the second half, led 
by a hard-running and hard-hit­
ting Mike McGlynn. An alert 
Rich Harper picked up a Black 
Sheep kick and scampered ten 
yards for a score, evening the 
match at 4-4. Dave Gamache 
put the Irish into the quarter· 
finals as he galloped his way 
into the BlacK Sheep endzone, 
giving the Irish an 8-4 victory. 
The stress of a full day of 
competition began to take its toll as Notre Dame took on the No;seman rugby club in . the third game without the serv1ces of an injured Dave Gamache. Jim Bowers, normally a scrummie, was called upon .to fill Gamache's shoes, whtle 
John Poinsatte took over Bow­ers' place in the serum. The Irish were the obvious agressors, continually pressing die Norsemen in both halves, but were unable to put a score on the board. The Norsemen scored once in each half to take a 8-0 win, eliminating :r:-r?tre Dame from further competmon. Meanwhile, in Chicago, otht;r Irish ruggers to.ok on t~e Um­versity of Ch1cago m two games. The Irish were hurt early in the first game as Peter 
Paganelli was ejected tor over­
zealous play. The pace of the 
game was slowed by many 
penalties on both teams. The 
fine play ofJohn Muldoon w<l:s 
overshadowed by a 11·0 Chi­
cago win. 
The Irish turned the tables in 
the second contest, trouncing the Maroons 18·0. Th~ ga'!le was highlighted by senwr K1m Uniacke's fine running and by the efforts of rookies Mike Marshall and Kin Zubler. One · trv was recorded by both U.ni­acke and Marshall, while Zub­
ler added two. 
The Irish <ake to the road 
again next weekend l'' 
challenge Illinois State. T'.e 
following weekend finds the 
Irish at home against a strong 
club from Chicago, the Griffin~, 
on An Tostal Saturday. 
========================== ... Bookstore 
(continued from page 16] 
Jim Stone led TB Express II to a 21-17 win over Jimbo and His Athletic Supporters. Stone dropped 9-of-15 shots while Mike Randsey hit seven-of-nine for the losing squad. 
] ohn Paul I Pope of the Month Club, featuring Bill Laimbeer and Kris Haines, routed Run­ning Amok, 21·5. Laimbeer hit six of his seven attempts from the pavement while Haines went one better, sinking seven­of-ten. 
Jeff Thinnes displayed sharp­shooters accuracy, hitting 12· of-20 shots i:o lead the Blue Demons to a 21-10 win over Non-Virgins and Weber, while Fish Peners II took]ohn Wayne G!lcy's Four ... to a 25-23 OT 
WIO. 

Sunny skies and warm wea­ther again favored tournament action with more of the same expected for this afternoon. Tournament commissioner Leo Latz expressed his satisfaction with the proceedings thus far. 
''I think this has the making of the greatest Bookstore tourna­ment ever," Latz pointed out. ''The games have been compe­titive and the crowds respon­sive. I expect it to get better as the tournament progresses." 
Two games were decided by forfeit with General Electric and Five Guys ... advancing to the next round bf play. 
All classified ads must tle received by 5 00 p.m .. two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept
class1fieds Monday through Friday, 10 00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m. All 
class1fieds must tle pre·paid. either in person or through the mall
Classifieds 
Lost: Brown, 3-fold wallet near Nickles or NOTICES Hot-dog stand Friday (6) nile. Needed 
badly. $$$for return. Typing In own home. Pickup and delivery. 272·2896 Lost: ND Class Ring & Watch in O'Shag.
Call Pat 3386. Attention D.C. Club Members: 
Mandatory meeting Tuesday April 24 7 Lost: Keys In brown leather case with pm In Farley Basement-election of offl· horshoe buckle. If found please return to cers. If Interested In running contact Observer office. Jane at 6804. 
Found: one expensive looking calculator Students opposed to nuclear power on the lawn of Law Bldg. Call Chuck 8332 plants, join the ballly Alliance. Help at with description. ACC this weekend. Call 288·3995 after 5. 
Lost: One calculator around noon Tues. Typing In home, Fast, accurate, close by. Between C-3 and Alumni Hall. Call Pl'lvlously 272·7866, now 272-4105. Call 232·5420. after 5:30p.m. 
Typist will do typing In own home. Call 272·1401. . 
J~~~BM Selectric Plckp and delivery FOR RENT 
Rooms $40 mo. summer or fall, Near AttlnUon 111 Log1n Volunttel1 1nd rides. 23J.1329. Interested studental 
This weekend Is the time for the annual INEXPENSIVE RENT THIS SUMMER. 
Logan Center campout! Campers should Furnishes houses close to school, 'l17· meet at Logan at 1:00 a.m. on Saturday, 3604 April 21st. We will arrive back at Logan at 3:00 p.m. Sunday. The campout Have large hOuse furnished, for rent. promises to be agreat time, with plenty Available for fall semester. Suitable for 5 of food, games, and good times. Afl or 6 students. Very good neighborhood. meals are provided, no charge. Great East of Memorial Hospital. If Interested plumbing too. All you need to bring are Call 232-4412. two blanl<ets or a sleeping bag. Aides leave from SMC Holy Cross Circle for Logan at 10:45 Saturday. Talent show · 
Saturday night·Think up an act. N D students meet right at Logan at 11 :00 WANTED 
a.m. Saturday. Questions call Mike 1371 
or Sue 4·1-4832. Need two male housemates to share nice house. Cars useful. Call 289-9498. 
Need 10 lb. dumbells or set of barbellsLOST and FOUND 
Call 272·2896. 
Thou shalt not steal. Lost: Hewlett-Pack· Y• Billy Joel tickets wanted. Call Mikeard HP·33E Calculator. Reward S$$. Call 
1722. 
Andy 272·7080. 
Need ride ot St. Louis on Friday, April 20. Will split expenses. Call Steve ·3261. 
Backpacking across Europe We need a fourth person (female) Call Mary Clair at 6232. 
Paid positions available for 2printers for 1970·80 year (and a secretary too.) Call Diane at 7920 or office at 7047. 
OVERSEAS JOBS· Summer/ year round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc. All fields, $500-$1200 monthly. Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free Info· Write: IJC, Box 52·14, Corona Del Mar, Ca. 92625 
Waitresses wanted: Mlchlana's finest night-club needs full or part·tlme help. Especially Interested In Girls who might be staying on for the summer, who would rather spend their days on the beach and work at night. Must be 21. 
PERSONALS 

T1ke 1 brak from lttldln to enJoy 1nd walk to Pandora's bookJ. Sul'l, we have Iota of fun, browsing books. We 11sa buy Uled textbookl. 233-2342 • Behind N.D. IIJirtmlnta. 
GaH bills uud • like new, 50 for $10.0 1nd up. Call m~. 
For llle: TIXII Instrument Tl~ EIIC­tronlc Calcul1tor. Ruson~ble Price. C11f 
3087. 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed:, Sat., Sun. 9-7 Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Road Niles 683·2888. 
For Sale 1975 Triumph Spitfire. Comver­tible; 26,000 miles Yellow with side stripes. Great shape, $2875.00 288-8801 
For Sale: 1969 Dodge Coronet p.s. a.c. $375 Call Tony 8842. 
SMELLY··(KELLY)You are aging yourself by your actions 
Phil·

and not by your years. 
Whoever said that the Titanic wasLiz, Allee, La, Acker, Mickey, Kathleen, unsinkable didn't have a crew like me,
Debbie, OC, Nell but just because we turtle doesn't mean we won't beat hards. I'll shine the rest of

MARTHA: 
the season. Go get'em this weekend.
HAPPY BIRTHDAY WASTE PROD· ·Dawn
UCT OF THE WEEKI!! Happy Birthday Bob
help!!!! Need 1 or 2 Billy Joel Tickets. 
A very special wish for a pretty
Call Chris at 3301.. .. 
"basic" guy: Hope you jump right Into your coat and walk Into a terrific 19th
1975 Honda 50 Trallblke--mlnt condition 
year.

$200.00 firm. Call 272·7857 after 6 p.m. 
Love,

for appointment to see over the weekend. 
Mand !':i '66 VW for sale. Runs. Cheaper than · 
Laurie,

Insurance. call 289-9498 What a week!! I I long for you,
Strawberry Shortcake, and H.B.C. · Counselors needed for American Lung YOUR KITCHEN FLOOR OR MINE? Association ASTHMA DAY CAMP June H24" 25·29 & July 16-20 Hours 8:30a.m.· 4:30 
p.m. Camp location: Mishawaka, Indiana VIva Ia Keenan-Badin oonnectlon! 
Hourly rate. Background In P.E. ------------,t·
desirable For more Information call: Even Ted wishes he was a red-head. 287·2321. Marcus, To my very special friends In BP, Lin., & Good luck In "Double Exposure." 
Steve, Break your neck! Thanks for all the support and encour· Frankus agement on April 4th, I couldn't ask for 
better friends. I love ya all. Is Bill Berry's hair blonde all mr? Ask SheI him. 
P.S. (I'll get them next year!) 
Mlkey: 

Two girls need golfing lassos before end I'm su1111 of school. Call Usa or Jeannine 4·1·4392. IICCiptl 
I want to! Campus View lnfol'lllll Come one, come You'111 ltUck now. all • Friday n\te after Billy Joel (or come Klddo earlier) 5 kegs. 
BI· ch 
Hey Kevin, Love to spend all night connecting dots. Glad you're feeling better. Hope you're Love, ready for Larry Norman. Guess?? 
Pat. 

Tom Hunt, NaRcy· Surprise! Happy 19th Birthday! Good luck on those tests! The fastest Love, Anne pen In the Mid West. 
.,, 
~----­



Pullano'S spirit strengthens Irish 
by MikeHenry as much to his positive state of ''90 percent of this game is begun to breathe a little easier freshman year, I began to keep
Sports Writer mind as the fact that he is an mental. When I was having when they see the ball headed a baseball journal, so I can 
ideal number one batter. trouble with my throws down in in his direction. analyze my performance and 
''The only thing that can stop Florida, I had a bad image of "Whenever I get in a slump, determine where there is room 
While Connie Mack once me is myself, and I'm too the throw before I even fielded I step back and ask myself for improvement.'' The most decreed that pitching is determined and confident to let the ball.'' Lately, though, Ricky what's wrong. Usually I'm recent entry is indicative of· tht>. seventy-five percent of base­that happen," the intense has grown more sure of his thinking too much or not al all,'' burning ambition that Pullano ball, his assessment would have Skokie, Illinois native reveals. tosses, and the Irish staff has he explains. ''At the end of my possesses: ''There's only one been just as accurate if he had month left in your Notre Dame been discussing a team's carer. Make the team mental attitude. It's the feeling remember you as a goodthat something special is going captain, someone that helps to happen when you're between them both on and off the field. the white lines; it's taking a Take the extra base, hustle, be 
headfirst slide into the base; it ag~ressive--be imaginativeis a welcoming of adversity whtle still playing smart base­
because you know, deep inside, ball." that you're willing and able to Fans at] ake Kline Field have meet the challenge. Rick little 'tro!lble picking out 
Pullano, Notre Dame's short­Pullano as the Irish instigator, 
stop and captain of the squad the player that goads his team­the past two seasons, embodies m.ates on with a never-endingthis fighting spirit and his stream of chatter and driving leadershit;', especially encouragement. Baseball is his this year, has mfected the passion; and, while Pullano has whole team with a sense of excelled academically at du purpose and a never-say-die Lac, to the point of beingcredo that has been manifested accepted at DePaul Law School, in a number of contests. it is only the game that matters 
Even though Pullano has when he pulls on the jersey with succeeded in imbuing his team­the blue number one. mates with the confidence they Perhaps Pullano's most note­need to be big winners, he finds worthy contribution to the Irish himself in the midst of his most cause deals with his relation­
prolonged slump at Notre ship wi~h the taciturn Kelly.Dame, a puzzling spell that has ''Rtcky acts as an intermediary seen him commit numerous between coach and the players, throwing errors and his batting "his understudy, freshman 
average drop under .300. Chuck Tasch, notes. ''Besides Nevertheless, while mentor that, he keeps the team up for Tom Kelly has been juggling games against smaller schools the line-up almost daily, like Bethel and Valparaiso. His Pullano remains entrenched in his customary lead-off spot, due [continued on page 14) 
---______j 

Bookstore action continued yesterday with no major upsets. Today one Butchers, wzll be "put to the test" on Bookstore 10 at 6:30. [Photo by Dave Rumbach] 
Record at 9-11 
Irish nine split another twinbill 
by Craig Chva/ Sports Writer 

Trying to figure Notre Dame's baseball team depends a great deal on your pomt-of­view. If you're the type that sees half-full glasses of water, the Irish are on the verge of putting it all together. But if you notice the empty half, well, the Irish seem to be going nowhere fast. 
Tuesday afternoon, Coach Tom Kelly's men split a double­header with Butler University. The Irish took game one 4-3, behind the c'ombined pitching efforts of Greg Kot and Marty Vuono. The nightcap was all Butler, however, as the visitors from Indianapolis won 7-2. The split marked the fourth time in five twin-bills that the Irish broke even, and it left them with a 9-11 slate. 
Kot, a freshman from Fair­fax, Virginia entered the con­test with an 0-2 mark, but was working on a 4-0 shutout into the fifth inning. A walk and three singles halved Notre Dame's lead and after a two-out double and an error, Kelly summoned Vuono from the bullpen. 
The sophomore righthander yielded a run-scoring single, but then put out the fire without further incident. Vuono then set down the side in order in the seventh to earn his first save of 1979. 
Singles by shortstop Rick Pullano in the second and fourth innings keyed Notre Dame uprisings. In the second, Pullano singled with two out to send Mark Simendinger to third he then stole second base, setting the stage for Mike Jamieson's two-run single. 
[continued on page 15] 
Thursday, April19, 1979 -page 16 
Butchers, Chumps highlight today's bookstore games 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's Bookstore Bas­ketball tournament kicks into high gear this afternoon with four feature games on tap. The tournament's number one seed, Butchers, featuring Bruce Flo. wers, Dave Huffman and Kevin Hart, will play on Bookstore 10 at 6:30. Right next door on Bookstore 9, Tom Sudkamp and Rusty Lisch will lead Chumps into action as they attempt to return to the tournament's final game where they lost last year toJeffCarpenter's squad. That game is also scheduled for 6:30 p.m. 
Two late games tipping off behind Stepan Center feature Strappamasquon and His Com­bat Wombats, with Greg Kna­felc and Pete Holohan (Stepan 5 at 5:30) and the perennially powerful Nutmeggers (Stepan 3 at 6:30). 
The tournament proceeded without incident yesterday as 32 teams advanced to the next round of play. In an overtime marathon, Captain Necrophelia and the L.M. 's outlasted Ivory Magicll, 25-23. Jerry Maloney was 12-for-28 for the winners with teammate Dave Onus­check chipping in nine. Chris Sullivan and Mike Moore had seven and six points respec­tively for the losers. 
Balanced scoring was the key as the Irish Wildcats dumped Paul Bauersfield and the Un­known Assailants, 21-7. Gary Thompson, Kevin Dochney, Rich Buehner and Kent Brock­elman all scored five points for the 'Cats. 
[continued on page 15) 
Bookstore scores 
Murph and the Divers over Heathcliff 
and the Turtleheads by 2 (OT) Longshot over The Other Side by 3 Take My Shot over Rosenbloom and 
the Riptides by 15 Jim Morrison and Liz over Philo Grads 
by 7 Hylozoics over Engaged by 10 The Nads over Nelson Rockefeller by 5 The Mahogoff Bros over Powerhitters 
MOH by 12 Gorfs over Jim Jones Guyana Punch and Judy by 4 
The Irish Hood over St. Blaze and the Throat Inspectors by 10 the Show that Never Ends over Shutout 
Boys by 10 Gacy's Youth over Jimmy Carter by 15 Night of the Living Dead over Wally 
and Beaver's Cleavers by 11 Kamakaze Zeptards over John Gacy's 
Basement Bunch by 13 Tean Cannibus over TDMPC by 4 Classified Nads over Alley Boys by 11 Moe's Diner over ldi Amln, John 
Gacy...by 5 Jim Jones and the Greatful Dead over Even Less Talent... by 16 The Birdwatchers over Slaughter­
house 905 by 3 Dew Boys over Kamakaze Squad by 7 Irish Guards II over Snow Whlte...by
12 Lofts II over C I em's Royal F I ush by 7 Peeled Easy Living Paint over Breast 
Feeders by 12 Easy Living Paint over Jonestown...by 
20 

Four Quick Hits over Tigers by 11 I Phelta Thl IV over Dr. Smlth...by 5 SMC over Cabernet...by 13 
...____________________________________________________L_ ----­



