Taylor-page 8
I I I 


VOL. XIV, NO. 55 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1979 

(AP) -Iranian militants holding the U.S. Embassy in Tehran announced late yesterday that 10 more Amencan hostages were being released. The hos­tages were expected to be flown out today. 
Swiss radio said a Swissair jet was sent to Tehran for the four women and six blacks. A Swiss Foreign Ministry spokesman said the empty DC-8 still was waiting at the aill'ort at 2:30 .a.m. today, Iran ume (6 p.m. yesterday) 
Earlier yesterday, Katherine Goss, 22, of Cambridge Springs, Pa., a secretary in the economics section of the em­bassy, and Sgts. William E. Quarles of Washington, D.C.* and Laddl Maples of Earle, Ark., both black and 23 years old, were flown to Wiesbaden, West Germany, where they immediately called their fami­lies. U.S. officials said. 

freshman "doR,book," and the phone book. [Photos by Tim McKeoghJ. -The State Department could 
CLC passes 0-C shuttle service proposal 
by Michael Onufrak Senior Copy Editor 
The Campus Life Council (CLC) met last night in Keenan Hall and unan;mously passed a proposal which, if approved by Vice-President for Student Affairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear, would expand the present off-campuc' student shuttle service. However, recommendations regarding student parking regulations submitted to the CLC last night, had to be returned to the CLC parking committee for further study. 
If approved by Van Wolvlear, the shuttle service would operate from 9 to 12 p.m. Monday through Thursday and would be made available to all off-campus students. 
According to Marc Murphy, CLC off-campus representa­tive, the present shuttle service is inadequate because it only transports students as far as Notre Dame Ave. -precisely the area that is most dangerous to off-campus students. If the CLC proposal is adopted, the expanded shuttle service would originate at the LaFortune Student Center and run hourly, depositing students at their doors. 
Murphy said in his list of recommendations that a van could be operated by a group of volunteers possibly in cor1junction with the wurk-studydrogram of the Financial Aid Office. The shuttle s<:rvic,. coul hegin next semester. 

TEL AVIV, Israel (AP) -Pales­tinian guerrillas, in grim re­minders of their opposition to Egyptian President Anwar Sa­dar's Nov. 19, 1977 peace initiative, planted two bombs in Jerusalem yesterday and were rebuffed in a seaborne attack on the Israeli coast. 
Police said 12 fersons were wounded, most o them slight­ly, when the bombs exploded 15 minutes apart on two Israeli buses during the morning rush hour. Bv late afternoon, hospi­tal •officials said all but one of the victtms had been released. In Beirut, the Palestine Liber­ation Organization claimed its terrorists planted the bombs, but made no mention of the 
battle in the Mediterranean. 

In one bus, a passenger disco-· vered the bomb and the bus driver ordered _the passengers 1 to disembark. He then drove toward an• empty lot but the bomb went off at Zion Square, one of the city's busiest cross­
1
roads. 

The e~pl~sion ripped througl: 
the vehicle s rear section send­
ing glass and metal splinten 
flymg through shop windows 
and the windshields of cars 
parked hearby. The driver. two 
policemen and one other person 
were injured. 

In the second bombing the device detonated on a n'early empty ~us i~ the Kiryat Hay­ovel residential quarter. Police 
The CLC' s parking committee submitted a list of recommendations predominantly dealing with the issue of students who obtain 15-minute passes at the main gate and subsequently park on campus. Many students are conse­quently ticketed by security since there is no designated area in which students with 15-minute passes may park. 
The parking committee recommended that dorm driveways, the main circle, the south side ofBreen-Phillips Hall, and lots A-11 amd B-11 (behind Lyons Hall) be designated as areas where students may park their cars while on campus with a 15-minute pass. The CLC could not resolve a number of technicalities which pertained to these and other parking recommendations, and so the proposal was returned to the committee for further study. 
CLC Parlimentarian Mickey Turzai also said last night that the CLC is in violation of its constitution because the make-up of its membership is currently inaccurate. According to the CLC constitution, the CLC shall have four hall vice-presidents as members. At present there are five hall vice-presidents on the CLC, though only four are present and voting at any given meeting. 
T urzai said the issue will be resolved by the next CLC meeting to be held Dec. 10 in Alumni Hall. 
Remembering Sadat's mission 
Palestinian guerrillas plant two bombs 
reported eight injuries. 

Late Sunday, an Israeli patrol boat fought a sea battle with Palestinian guerrillas off Israel's northern coast. The Israeli military command said two guerrillas were killed and two captured. 
The commander of the Israeli craft reported the four guerril­las were intercepted in a rubber dinghy off the coast of Ahziv, four miles south of the Leban­ese border. The boat had left from near the port of Tyre and was headed to the area between Acre and Nahariya in northern Israel, according to the officer. The Israeli boat, on routine patrol, blasted the dinghy out of the water after the Palestin­
Ir~i~ rnilit~ts 

release U.S. hostages 
ians fired on it with bazookas and rocket-propelled grenades, Israeli sources said. Two of the guerrillas drowned and two others, aged 17 and 25, were plucked from the water. No Israelis were injured ·in the fight, the Israeli commander said. 
Yesterday's bombs went off a few hours before Egyptian President Anwar Sadat spoke at ceremonies near Mount Sinai marking the anniversary of his historic visit to Jerusalem two years ago, beginning the pro­cess that led to an Egyptian­Israeli peace treaty. 
Nonetheless, Israeli officials expect tourism from Israel to 
[mntlnued on page 4] 
not confirm release of the 10 
hostages who appeared at the 
news conference. Reports said 
the new group of hostages 
would be flown to Wiesbaden to 
join the others · for observation 
in a U.S. 'military hospital. 
The State Department list 
indentifred the 10 as: 
Elizabeth Montagne, Calumet 
City, Ill.; Terri T~dford (fe­
male), South San Francisco., 
Calif.; Joan Walsh, Ogden, 
Utah; Lillian Johnson, Elmont, 
N.Y. 
David Walker, Waller, Texas; 
Uoyd Rollins, Alexandria, Va.; 
Wesley Williams, Albany, 
N.Y.; Neal Robinson, Houston, 
Texas; James Hughes, Langley 
AFB, Va.; and Joseph Vincent, 
New Orleans. 
During the news conference at the embassy, which has been occupied since Nov. 4, the 10 , hostages sat under a banner 
' 
f69nlinued on page 4] 
Bostonians launch movement BOSTON (AP) -In the shadow of a memorial to black Civil War soldiers on historic Boston Common, Roman Catholic, Pro­testant, Jewish, and Muslim leaders yesterday launched a drive for racial harmony in this troubled city. 
In his openmg prayer, Episco­pal Bishop John Coburn asked "that justice, equity and•·har­mony may prevail in our city." Gov. Edward J. King Jed a group of prominent Bostonians signing a "Covenant ofJustice, Equity and Harmony'' after the outdoor ecumenical convocation aimed at easing racial tensions. 
Thousands of Bostonians are expected to sign the covenant in coming weeks. It calls for "a new day of peace and harmony in our common existance . . . a new mood of healing and forgiveness so that we trans­cend not only our differences, but even our ~rievances. '' 
Police Supenntendent Edward 
P. Connolly estimated about 
4,000 people attended. less . · i[~ontinued on page 4] 


This will be the last 
Observer 

before break. 


L.____ ---------­

UAW members approve new unton concesstons 
DETROIT (AP) . Seventy-one percent of United Auto Workers members at Chrysler Corp. voted to approve the union· s new contract containing concessions to help the struggling automaker, the UAW s_aid yest~rday. About one-third of the estimated 124,000 acttve and latd-off workers covered took pan in voting that began Nov. 4, a typical turnout for auto contracts. The rank-and-file approval means that 197') is the first time rh~ triennial contract negotiat!ons between the UAW and the tndustry have not resulted to a national stride since 1964. The contract contains what the union estimates as $403 million in help for ~he company, $200 million in a delayed payment to the p~nswn fund an_d $203 mlilion in wage and fringe-benefit tncreases laggmg by seH-ral months those at Ford Motor Co. and General Motors Corp. 
Spy scandal shakes Britian ; 

lawmakers demands inquiry 
LONDON (AP) -The government agreed yesterday to an emergency House of Commons debate on the spy scandal shaking Britain, but it continued to resist _lawmakers' demands for a full-scale inquiry that could bnng up past security mistakes. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who disclosed last week that Queen Elizabeth Il's art adviser, Anthony Blunt, 72, was a former So~iet spy, v.:ill open t~e debate tomorrow. Blunt's attorney, MIChael Rubmstem, satd Hlunt would emerge from five days of hiding today and hold a news conference to give his side of the story. :-ltr Alec Douglas-Home, the prime minister in 1964: and other government ministers at the time and later, satd they were never told about Blunt's confession, and they want to know why. Mrs. Thatcher is expected to make a full statement in the Commons debate about the sometimes complex relationships between the security services and t~e B~t~ish government ministers who are supposed w be thetr pohucal masters. But observers say she ts likely to c~ll for ~tric~er control of the security services rather than holdmg an mqutry inro past errors of the department. 

Arab summit rejects Iranian observer delegation 
TUNIS, Tunisia (AP)-Arab League Secretary General Chedli Klibi said yesterday he has rejected a request frqm Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini t~llow an Iranian observer delegation uuo this week's Arab summit conference here. Klibi said he received the formal request from Iran but advised its government Arab League statutes contain no provision for admitting observers to league meetings. "Of course the chiefs of stare are perfectly free to overrule me and decide otherwise, but I would be a little surprised if they did so," said Klibi. Iran is not Arab, but does share the Moslem faith with the Arab nations. At the summit due to open today,, onh· the most militant Arab governments, particularly Libya and South Yemen, were likely to back the Iranian demand, informed sources said. An overwhelming majority of conservative Arab states, led by Saude Arabta and Kuwait, were ex pee :c.d t() support Klibi' s ruling if the matter is raised at the surnm• 

Weather 
Cloudy and warm today with a high in the low to mid 60s. Rain likely tonight and tomorrow. Low tonight in the mid and upper 40s. High tomorrow in the low to mid 50s. 

4:15p.m. biology seminar, "fromiscuity in oaks: a numerical taxonomic view of a classica problem," dr. richard jensen, smc. galvin aud. 


Basketball tix on sale after break 
Approximately 250 tickets for the Notre Dame -Kentucky basketball game will go on sale the week after Thanksgiving. The game is to be played at Freedom Hall in Louisville on Saturday, December 29. Con­sult the Observer for exact date and time of sale. 
CCE presents workshop on 'learning' 
A workshop entitled, "ldow to Make Family Catechesis Work 
in  the  Parish,"  using  the  
"family  learning  team"  ap­ 
proach,  will  be  held  at  the  

University of Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Educa­tion Nov. 26-28. 
The meeting is sponsored· by the National Training Center for Family Learning Teams, Inc., which in 1972 began developing a neighborhood community-as-educator model ofcomprehensive parish educa­tion. 
Darby's 
sponsors festivities 
Darby's Thanksgiving will be held this year in the Rathskeller of LaFortune starting at noon Thursday. The musical "Oli­ver" will be shown at 2 p.m. and again at 8 p.m. Fr. Griffin will celebrate mass at 7 p.m. in the Keenan-Stanford chapel. 
Sandwiches and munchies will be available at Darby's. All are invited, no charge. 
_The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Pam Degnan Asst. Night Editor: Ryan "no doz goes to L.A." Ver Berk­moes, Cindy Kliros Copy Editor: Tom Jackman News Editor: Mike Shields Editorial Layout :: Sal Grana­ta, Greg Hedges, Ann Gales Features Layout: K. Connel­ly Sports Layout: Paul Mullany Sports Copy Editor: Michael Ortman EMT: S. Paul Selavko Proofreader: Mike Onufrak ND Day Editor: Mark Kelley SMC Day Editor: Peggy Shneeman Photographer: Tim Mc­Keogh 
Guest Appearances: John "going grey" McGrath, Sal "Yale Law School" Granata 
The Observer [USPS 511 1201 Is published Mtllldly through Friday n­cept during eum 1nd viCIIIIII periods. The Observer Is published by till students Ill Notre 011111 IIIII Slinl Mary's College. Sublcriplillllnwy Ill purchllld lor S2ll per yur 1111 persamesttrllrom The Observer. 1».0. bn 
0. Nitre Dame, lndl1111 4lili5i. SICIIId class ~e paid, Notre 011111, ln­dillll . 
The Observer Is 1 member Ill the Associated Preaa. All rwprldllctlln rights 1re r111rvtd. 
Tuesday, November 20, 1979-page 2 
Holiday Schedule 
During the Thanksgiving holidays which begin at 12:30 

m. on Wednesday, November 1, and continue until the first lass on Monday, November 26, 
he following will be in effect. 
FOOD SERVICES. The 
orth Dining Hall will close fter the noon meal on 
ednesday, November 21, and 
ill reopen for the supper meal 
n Sunday, November 25. The South Dining Hall will be open or all contract students stayng during the vacation period. The 
meal hours are as follows: 
Thurday, November 22 ('fhanksgiving Day) 
Friday and Saturday (November 23 and 24) 
Sunday, November 25 
Sunday, November 25 
Breakfast 10:00 -11:00 am Dinner 2:30-5:00pm 
Breakfast 9:00 -10:00 am Lunch 12:00-1:00pm Dinner 5:00-6:00pm 
Cont. Breakfast 9:00 -10:00 am Brunch 12:00: 1:00pm 


Student Union Concerts Presents An Evening with With 
HARRY 
CHAPIN 
A Benefit Concert for the World Hunger Year 
Friday Dec. 7 • 8 P·M· 
Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets $6.50 and 5.50 on sale at the ACC Box Office 

9 a.m. to 5 p.m. also at the usual ACC ticket outlets and River Oty Records Stores in 
South Bend and Misawaka 

..,• 
The Observer 
",Tuesday, November 20, 1979 -page 3 

Faculty 
monetary awards total over· 
· Sl.S million 
Notre Dame has accepted $1,64<;1,519 in awards for the months of August, September and October to support indivi­dual faculty research projects, facilities and equipment, and innovative educational and ser­vice programs, according to Dr. Robert E. 4iordon, vice presi­dent for advanced studies. 
Awards for research totaled $1,084b50 and included: 
$17J,OOO from the National Science Foundation (NSF) for nuclear structure research by a team of physicists including Drs. Cornelius P. Browne, Sperry E. Darden, Emerson G. Funk, and John W. Mihelich, progessors, James ) . Kalata, associate professor, and Ronald 
E. Malmin, assistant professor. 
$150.000 from the Depart­ment of Energy (DOE) for studies of the effects of radia­tion on matter by the Radiation Laboratory, directed by Dr. Robert H. Schuler. 
$85,293 from DOE for model­ing of heavy metals in ash pond. leachates by Dr. Thomas L. Theis, assistant professor of civil engineering, and Dr. Mic­hael G. Katona, associate pro­fessor of civil engineering. 
$83,000 from the Department of Labor for study of tpe influence of U.S. aad other multinationals on development in Brazil and its implications for 

U.S. trade and labor by Drs. Richard S. Newfarmer and Law­rence C. Marsh, assistant pro­fessors of economics. 
$69,486 from the U.S. Air Force for development of de­sign criteria for a high-speed flow visualization facility by Drs. Stephen M. Batill and Robert C. Nelson, assistant professors of aerospace and mechanical engineering, and Dr. Thomas J. Mueller, profes­sor of aerospace and mechani­cal engineering. 
$56,165 from the Na.tional Institutes of Health (NIH) for a pilot study of family size and later kin contacts by Dr. Joan Aldous, Kenan Professor of Sociology, and Dr. David M. Klein, assistant professor of sociology and anthropology. 
$50,000 from NSF for study of phonon spectroscopy in rare earths and rare-earth-iron com­pounds by Dr. Howard A. Blackstead, associate professor of physics. 
$42,971 from the U.S. Air Force for study of the effect of inflation upon business firms supplying the Air Force by Dr. William I. Davisson, associate director of the Social Science Reaining Laboratory and pro­fessor of economics, Dr. John 
G. Beverly, associate professor of accountancy, and Dr. Frank 
J. Bonello, associate professor of economics. 
$41,146 from the Environ­mental Protection Agency (EPA) for study of incinerated municipal sludge ashes and leachates by Theis. 
$37,392 from the U.S. Army for study of hydrogen behavior in coated and uncoated low-al­loy steels by Dr. James A. Kargol, assistant professor of metallurgy, and Dr. Nicholas F. Fiore, chairman and professor of metallurgical engineering and materials science. 
$36,000 from NSF for study of metal-metal interactions in clusters by Dr. Thomas P. Fehlner, professor of chem­istry. 
$30,000 from the American Chemical Society for study of substituted allenes via metal complexes, intermediates and reaction mechanisms by Dr. Daniel J. Pas to, -professor of chemistry. 
$29,272 from NIH for study of chemotherapy and metabolism of parasitic worms by Dr. Howard J. Saz, professor of biology. 
$24,960 from Miles Labora­tories, Inc., for study of specific tumor model systems in rats by Dr. Gary R. Burleson, assistant professor of microbiology, and Dr. Morris Pollard, chairman and professor of microbiology and. director of Lobund Labora­tory. 
$10,452 from NSF for study of nuclei using polarized beams by Darden. 
$9,542 from the University of Chicago for research in fast ion spectroscopy by Dr. Arthur E. Livingston, assistant professor of physics. 
$8,750 from the Whirlpool Corporation for fellowship in engineering 'administered by Dr. ) oseph C. Hogan, dear.. 
$7,500 from the National Chicano Council on Higher Education for a post-doctoral fellowship for Dr. l\odolpho Sandoval, associate professor of law. 
$7,270 from NSF for srudy of radiation-convection interaction in heat transfer by Drs. John R. Lloyd and K.T. Yang, profes­sors of aerospace and mechani­cal engineering. . 
$7,000 from Miles Laborator­ies, Inc., for research support in 
!continued on page 5} 
At summit 

Arabs reject radical demands 
TUNIS, TUNISIA (AP)-Kings and Presidents of the Arab world are likely to reject de­mands from a radical minority to wage economic war against the United States, an official said yesterday on the even of a three-day summit. 
· 'd d
DeIegatwn sources sa1 mo ­erates in teh Arab League
formed an overwhelming ma­jority determined to resist mili­tant demands to punish the United States for supporting Israel and chastise Egypt for signing a peace treaty with the Israelis. 
Arab League Secretary Gen­eral Chedli Klibi said he did not expect the summit to support the demands of Arab militants, led by Libya, for an intensified boycott of Egypt and to with­hold oil from the United States. Libyan Foreign Minister Ali Triki fai!ed to win approval in' a ministerial meeting last week for a special Arab summit to plan deployment of the "oil weapon" against the United States, but Triki said he would 
raise  the  matter again  at  the  
summit.  
"We  are  not  against  the  

United States,'' Klibi said. "We are against Zionism. We know the United States is Israel's ally, but what we want in the first place is to make the American people understand th€ Arab problem.'' 
The meeting, opening on the first day of the 15th century of the Islamic calendar, is the first non, where Isracii-backed 

Arab summit since the 1978 rightist Lebanese are fighting 
Baghdad meeting that expelled Palestinian guerrillas. 
Egypt· 1he tore1gn mm1sters' meet­Two crucial issues on the ing last week ran into deadlock summit agenda are the drafting on both issues and was unable of a joint strategy against Israel to agree even on a final com-and endins the continuing mun1que, but Klibi told The hloodshed 1n southern Leba-AssociatPd Prt>ss ht> was cnnfl­
[<ontmued on PaJ!.e 4] 
===================================================== 
St. Mary's purchases new 
•

computer equtpment 
by Kelly Sullivan 
Saint Mary's College has re­
cently purchased a new compu­
ter for ''instructional and admi-. 
nistrative use, and for academic 
research,'' according to Jason 
Lindower, College controller. 
The new system will be shipped 
to Saint Mary's within the week 
and installation is scheduled for 
December 17th. 
Lindower hopes that portions 
of the computer system will be 
functioning by the second se­
mester. Eventually, the new 
system will completely replace 
the present one. 
James Mead, director of Com­puter Services, explained, ''this new computer will be doing everything." All students, a­. lumni, admissions, and develop ment records will be stored in the system. The computer will 

be available for students' use as well, in such areas as writing programs and research pro­jects. 
Mead stated that the cost of the new computer was in excess of $200,000. The computer mo­del, a Prime 550, can handle 47 terminals, and 240 million byres of disc storage. "It has approx­imately 10 times the storage and power of our current confi­guration equipment." 
Mead also added that the new system was capable of ''doing more and costing less.'' When the computer is installed,,. the college will undergo a transttion stage, using parts of both the old and new systems. 
Mead pinpointed May, 1981 as the date when all · computer functions will be completely transferred on the new system. 

$3.00 ys 

All you can drink 9-1 ~~~--....:;;._ $2.00 girls 21 I.D. Tonight 
Lee's 

and Dillon 
Thanksgiving partr 
TheNAZZ presents ... 
A thank-you to all staff and 
performers who have been so generous with their time and talent this semester. We may not say thank-you every time you do something nice for us, 
but we want you to 
know that the NAZZ wouldn't he_ the NAZZ without you!!
Have a great Than 
Skiers ... turn dnv1ng t1me 1nto sk11ng t1me Sk1 Kalamazoo·~ all new T1mber A1dge Ski Area and stay at the fabulous Kalamazoo H1lton Inn' 
PACKAGE PLANS 
s2aoo . 
pt>r person
Michigan's 
I~CLUDlS TWO OAY~) ·,KilN(! AND ONE N!Cit-iT :> lL)QI--;ING
finest skiarea 

X 
KALAMAZOO 
HILTON 
INN 
At. 2. Gobles. Mich. 49055 Phone Toll Free , ·800·253·9852  100 W. Michtgan Ave Kalamazoo. Mtch 49007 Phone 1616) 38t 2t30  
Pleas e send me further  informat1on  
Name  

Address-·------~----·­
C>ly, State. Z•p -------_ -------------­I'm mterested 1n: Only Skung Only Lodg1ng i ~ Abcut your Package Plans 

The Observer Tuesday, November 20, 1979 -page 4 
Meany picks protege 
I1LACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
_:,•s !STEll\ IE\o.S ARE llPt.~ TO SENIOR$ AND GRADt:ATE STUDENTS IN THE DECEMSER, MAY AND AU::t :-;, ClASSI:S •.... ,, •• A.'iY WHO INTEND TO HAVE INTERVIEWS MUST HAVf A COMPLF.TED 

AFL-CIO elects Kirkland 

f'R~~tll.f \ RE\';tSTRATlON) Ofoi FILE A1 THI:: PLAC£MEN1 &UREAU .••.•••••REGISTRATION, ;\TFR\ lf.i. SlG:-o-tP SHEETS A.~D EMPLOYER LITERATURE ARF IN ROOM 213, ADMIN. BLDG. 
1"•'\tf'l ~-It I '1PI.OHR SP:..ClFICATtON$ ON DEGREES, JOB TITLES, LOCATIONS AND CITIZENSHIP 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Lane Donahue was also elected with­
ARL l-1\'l.' 1,; TH£ PL.\CE~If.~T HM:UAL, EXCEPT FOR THOSE EMPLOYERS ADDED SINCE THE PKI\Tl\i ,lf TH£ l1A.'.:ljAl. 

Kirkland, Georgf Meany's out opposition to the $90,000-a­
l_fl_t ~f_t-:0.-.~f_P;Rh>D 15 FRt)M 8:00 A.l1,. Il.l ~:00 P,H., MONDAY THROUGH ~Jill!!NlNt,; 

bnghr and faithful student for year post. 
~:! "m_f_rt _i_q..:,;_1 '· t}H_A:.\'}..SC~VIXG BREAK) FOR l~TERVH'WS 11{[.WtiK___Qf_N~t;__~_!(-~.,. 

three decades, succeeded his In his acceptance speech, the 
PI l"ASI. "liT£ ISHR\'tfl,. LOO.TlONS At llMI Of SIGN-UP. 

mentor as chief spokesman for reserved and scholarly Kirkland 
\ttl !'tl ST SIG~ FtJR YOl"R I~T"[R\'lEWS PERSONAL.LY... 

organized labor yesterday with ded~cated himself to a goal that 
ICSCI.WMBA
OAT! 

a call for united union' ranks had· eluded Meany during his 
1Uf'a. 
X ' 
~-·~' •,-:_~ :tH"' ',..,.L 
>. li X 
Nov. 27/28 
'x
Tun/Wed. 
~ov ..ll:l ~;;J.­
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
'~Hv_.__!!ill 
X 
X 
X 
X
WPd/ThuU. 
X 
X 
X 
X 

I 
l\_o_y_:_1._9

I 
X
Thura~. X 

~ . 
X
X 

Nuv ~0fh;.; • frt X X >. 
X 
Nov, )0
Fr,-.-X X X 
X X 
X X 
X X 
X X 

• 
i 
X X X 
~ 
\ 
i 
1 
~, '
" Nov. 28 

under tlw AFL-CIO. lonJ! career -a fully united 
lh!....!udd Cotnpanv 

Kirkland, 57, rhe labor feder­house of labor. 
B in Mgt, ME, FF:. 

ation·~ second-in-command for ··All sinners belong in the 
~Corpord~ 

the past 10 years, was elected church; all citi7.ens owe fealty to unanimously as the second their country; all workers be­
!MD 1.n ChE. ME. 
Naval Avlonic:s Ct>nter 
B~ in EE, Ml. 

president in AFL-CIO history. long in the unions of their trade 
Schindle-r Haughton Eltovator Corporation. 

The position pays $1IO,OQO a or industry, and all true unions 
R in Acct, Mkt, F.E. 

>'ear. belong in the American Federa­
His ascension to what many tion of Labor and Congress of
G~neral Motors Curpor.nion 
81'1 in MF, EE, HEHl, ChE, M<>t, M, Chtom. 

consi\Jer the most influential Indu-~trial Organizations,'' 
~ftin, Hurdman t. Cumstoun {Ne'W 'turk Of{ it~ only) 

post outside of government had Kirkland declared. 
S in Acct. 

been expected because he long Ill promised co ''explore 
!'1esrupola~n Lih· lnsur..ncr Company S ln all d1scipUn•s. MBA Stude-nu interratrd in 

was known to be the personal anew the affiliation of those 
AI.IHINISTKATlVE TltAlNING PRUGKAJ1. muat provide trans­

favorite of the retiring Meany, organizations now outside our
cript •t timr of intervit>w. 

8), who stepped down after 24 ranks.'' Then he proclaimed
t.:nt.on CarbidE-Curp. Che1fticats t:. Plastics Diviaion BH in ChE, ME, EE. 

years because .of failing health. that outside unions have an 
Succeeding Kirkland as AFL­obligation to jnin the 13.6-mil­
Union Carbide Corp. Films-Packadn& Dividon 
BH in HE, ChE. 

ClO secretary-treasurer was lion memberAFL-CIOnow home 
Union Carbide Corp. Linde Division 

Thomas R. Donahue, · 51. a to 105 labor groups. 
8M in ChE, HE. 

former assistant labor secretary Kirkland mentioned no
. 

and Meany's executive assist­names, but left little doubt he
Conaumen Power c.pany 
8 in EE, ME, Engr Sci. 88A and Hath with Computer Emphaeis £or COIRputer Services Dept. 

ant for the past six years. was addressing the Teamsters, 
The Lubriz.ol Corporation 8HD In ChE and Chem. 
Stewart-Warner ElectroniC'S 
1. Electronics. 2. 8 in EE, HF., HEIO. 3. Various 
Engineering positions. 4. Chicago, IL. s. CJtiumtthlp required. 

• • • Israel 
8cthleht!tn Steel Corporation 

jcontinued from page 1]
28) 8 in HE, EE, Met for Management Training Progro~~m. 
29) 8 in all diRciplines [oT Technic.! Saln. 

In exchange for the peace 
United .Tdephone Company o£ Ohio 

treaty amd diplomatic recogni­
8 in Paych, Soc~ All B!A. 8 in all Sci disciplines; 
8 in CE, HE, EE, Hath £or Customer Service. 

tion by Egypt, Israel has 
8 in EE, Cocnp Sci/Engr, HE, Phys1c5 for Network. 
B 1n Acct, Fin for Finance Progratn. 

pledged to leave the Sinai Pen­
8 in Market ine for Marketing Progr&~~~. 
B in Advertising and Journalism for Public Relations. 

msula in stages, completing in 1982 irs withdrawal from Egyp­
The Torrington Company 
8 in HE. 

tian lands occupied during the 1967 war. 
8 e·ndix Corporation 
8H in KE, EE, Het. 8 in MEIO, Acct. MBA. 

Israeli occupation forces pulled out of 600-square-mile
Bendix Research Laboratori~s 
1. Research & Development. 2. JiiD in Hath, Phyaica, 

area surrounding the Mount 
HE, EE, AE. ]. Engineer/Scientist. Aaaignmenta will be in basic research. 4. Southfield,HI. 5. Perm.Jles.Vtu.. 

Sinai area on Thursday, two months ahead of schedule so 
Hallmark C•rda, Inc. 

that Sadar could pray at the
29) B in Econ, Mgt, Hkt for Prod. Hat. HilA for 
Prod. Hgt. B in Acct, f'in, Econ, HilA for f'inance. 

mountain on the second anni­
8 in Math or Stats for Data Proceasing. 
30) 8 in all dhdpl1nea for Sales. MBA. 

versary of Jerusalem peace 
American Natural Resources Company 

mission, which led to the Camp 
8 in ME, CE, EE, Camp Set, Acct, Fin. 

David accord. It was the fourth 
Ampell Corporation 
8HP in EE, ME, Comp Set. 

of six withdrawals that will return two-thirds of the penin­
Borg-Warner Corpontion. Mechanical Seal Division 8 in ME. HBA with Fin or Hktg bkgrd or conctrn. 

sula to Egypt by early next 
Central Intelligence Agency 
year.
BH in AE, EE, Hath, Physics. 8 tn Earth Sci. 
H,D in Econ. 

Sadat pald tribute to Presi­
dent Carter and Israeli P.rime
Connecticut Mutual Li£e Insurance Co. 
8 in AL and BA for Sales/Sales Mgt in South Bend/Ft. Wayne 

Minister Menachem Begin, calling them "my friends,"
FMC Corporation B in ChE, HE. Addition: 8 in Acct; 8 in Mgt for 

and sayin~ they had made 
: varioua Prifeaaional positions. • 

peace posstble. He said Mount 
National Bank of Detroit 

Sinai, where he wants to be
All 88A for Branch Officer Trainee. 

buried, should be open to "all 
~lu Gas Li&ht & Coke Company
8 in CE, EE, HE ______ _ 

the faithful from the three 
UW SCHOOl 

faiths (Islam, J udaisn and 
Christianity), with no restric­
tions so that they may come and 
Albany Law School Nov. 28 
Sign-up a'neets for law School intervievs arr 
on the Pre-Law Society Bulletin Bo.uda in 

address the Lord." 
~ O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

No Israeli officials were pre-
BASF Wyandotte Co;p~r;t~o~ --Cancelled. 

sent, bur journalists from Israel 
covered the ceremonies with 
Egyptian permission. Egypt 
h,.as erased many signs of 
Israel's 12 -year occupation, 
even painting out Hebrew road 
signs while leaving Arabic and 
English markings. 
Mount Sinai to resume later 
this week after a seven-dav 
break during the change i~ command. Most Israeli resi­dents have been asked to leave the area, although one Israeli couple will be allowed to remain and operate a bus-tour service they started seven years ago. 
, , , Boston 
fcontinued from page !] 
than halt of the expected 
10,000. Some Boston schools 
were dismissed early so that 
students could attend. 
The ceremony was prompted 
by a series of racial incidents in 
the past several months, includ­
ing the on-field shooting of 
Darryl Williams, a young black 
football player, which touched 
off a series of angry protests by 
blacks. 
Boston has been the scene of 
racial violence for several 
years, much of it linked to the . court~ordered desegregation of
the schools. · Unnc-d Auto Workers and Nat­ional Education Association ­the nation's three largest un­ions with a combined member­ship of more than five million work<;rs. The United Mine Workers is another major union indcpt~ndent of the AFL-CIU. 
''I say now to those who stand outside that I have too high a regard f<1r the caliber of their leadership to believe that they LaO really be governed by peuy personal or pecuniary considerations or ancient ted­ious grudges,'' he said in ar> <1pparcnt reference to the UAW's concern ahout losign its politic<JI autonomy and some of its dues as the cost of re-affi I iar ion. 
• • • Iran 
[continued from page I] 
protecting ''this national crimi­nal," referring to the exiled Shah, whom the militants want in exchange for the remaining 49 hostages. 
Revolutionary leader Ayat01­lah Ruhollah Khomeini ordered the release of female and black hostages who "were not spies,'' and said Iran might pur some of the remaining 49 hostages on trial for espionage if the United States did not return the ailing Shah Moham­mad Reza Pahlavi from New York, where he is being treated for cancer. 
In Washington, a White House statement said any such espionage trial of U.S. diplo­mats would be a ''further flagrant violation•• of interna­tional law. 
The first three hosta~es freed flew by commercial atrliner to Copenhagen, Denmark, where they appeared happy. They did not answer reporters' aues­rions. They were transferred quickly to an American military plane and taken to a U.S. Air Force hospital in Wiesbaden. 
"" 
. They bathed and rested, and State Department spokesman George Sherman said they all were in good health, ''consider­ing what they've been through.'' 
The State Department said they would be questioned about the condition of the other hostages and debriefed, but Sherman said ''the stay here will be very short and will only be a way-station on the way to their families. 


• • • Summit 

I• ontmued from ba!!e 31 • 
dent the Arab leaders would 
reach a compromise on both 
points. 
The Lebanese dele~ation and 
the Palestine Liberauon Organ­
ization clashed repeatedly in 
teh ministerial meeting and the 
PLO rejected a Lebanese de­
mand for withdrawal of PLO 
guerrilla bases from the U.N.­
controlled area south of the 
Litani River. 
Klibi, a Tunisian known for his 
moderate views, has headed 
the secretariat since the league 
headquarters was moved from 
Cairo to Tunis earlier this year 
by the league because of 
Egypt's peace with Israel. 
He set the tone for the summit with the disclosure he had rejected a request from Ayatol­lah Ruhollah Khomeini to admit an Iranian observer delegation to the meetin~. Arab sources said Khomeim wanted to exhort th~ Arab League to support the setzure of the U.S. Embassy in Tehran, thereby "deflecting the Arab League from its puq~o.se. ': 
KIJbt satd the summit could overrule his decision, but other sources said only Libya and South Yemen, among the 20 league members, were likely to advocate granting Khomeini's 
request. 
I' 
I I 

The Observer Tuesday, November 20, 1979-page 5 

• • • Monetary aw-ards 
[continued from page 3] 
Lobund Laboratory. 
$5,500 from the Administra­tion on Aging for a study of elderly widows and their adult children: the consequences of being part of a support net­work, by doctoral candidate AnnJache and her advisor, Dr. Joan Aldous. 
$5,000 from the Western 
Waterproofing Company for 
study of the preservation of 
monuments of limestone and 
sandstone by Dr. Erhard M. 
W_inkler, professor of earth 
sciences. 
$52,000 from the National ·Institute of Education for study of the ed~.,~~ational implications of metacognition and intelli­gence by Dr. John G. Borkow­ski, professor of psychology, and Dr. Ellen B. Ryan, chair­man and associate professor of psychology. 
$50,000 from the John M. 
Olin Foundation, Inc., for study 
the use of ~overnmental 
f nding for the Imposition of 
cia! policy by the Center for 
onstitutional Studies of the 
otre Dame Law School. 
$9,492 from the EPA for an environmental health engineer­ing training program directed by Dr. Robert L. Irvine, associ­~te professor of civil engineer­mg. 
$6,200 from the Committee on Institutional Cooperation­Midwest Program for Minority Education (CIC-MPME) for a program introducing minority students to engmeenng careers directed ·by Dr. Arthur J. Wuigley, associate professor of electrical engineering. 
$5,500 from the Indiana Arts Commission for public and community outreach programs sponsored by the Art Gallery. 
$1, 500 from the Howard V. Phalin Foundation for a gradu­ate fellows hip in the College of Business Administration. 
$500 from the Student Comp­etition on Relevant Engineer­ing, Inc., for entry in the energy efficient vehicle competition by 
students  in  the  College  of  
Engineering.  
$220  from  the  Agency  for  

International Development for participant training by Dr. 

$58,140 from NSF for infra­
I red studies in catalysis research by Dr. Deuardo E. Wolf, associ­ate ~rofessor of chemical engi­
n.-enng. 

$45,000 from NSF for X-ray diffraction research equipment for Dr. Thomas H. Kowel, assistant professor of metallur­gi~al engineering and materials science. 
$12,833 from NSF for a quadrupole mass spectrometer and a sputter-etch gun for electrical engineers Drs. Pratul 
K. Ajmera and Richard Kwor, assistant professors, and Wal­ter J. Gajda, Jr., associate professor. 
Awards for educational pro­~rams totaled $300,284 and mcluded: 
$99,188 from the National 
. Institute of Mental Health for outreach training to assist rural and minoritv elderly directed by Dr. John s·antos, professor of psychology. 
Notre Dame also received $37,431 from the National Insti­tutes of Health for an educa­tional p~ogram i_n exper~IJ?~ntal 
parasitology and vector biology directed by Dr. Paul P. Wein­stein, professor of biology, and $37,714 for programs of the Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry, including $2?,998 ~or 
the Notre Dame Institute for Clergy Education, directed by Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., $12,718 for the Center for Human Development, directed 
by Rev. Vincent Dwyer, O.C.S.O., $1,868 for the Notre Dame Center for Pastoral Litur­
gy, directed by Rev. John Allyn Melloh, S.M., and $130 for the Center for Experiential Learn­ing, directed by Rev. Donald McNeill, C.S.C. 

me to Darby' Thanksgiving hoopla! 
ood, Folks, and Fun. 

At Darby's Place beneath LaFortune Thanksgiving Day 
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE MAJORS LET US HELP YOU PLAN AHEAD TO BECOME A CPA 
Our successful students represent 
1/3oFUSA 
· 
CLASSES BEGIN DEC 10 
[g)~~~~[R1
CPA 
REVIEW 


Go to 
I I
Just for the Record, 
whose new specialty 

recordmart (thousands of collectors albums and cutouts) will open SOON at LOEWS Merchandise Mart 
Next to bus station, downtown 

THE OBSERVER OFFICE WII,L CLOSE FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK 
AT 4:30 pm ON TUESDAY NOV. 20 
AND REOPEN AT 9:30 am ON 
MONDAY NOV.26 
FIRST ISSUE AFTER BREAK 
WILL BE TUES. NOV. 27 
The Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry met to discuss the reorganization ofa campaign on women in the church. [Photo by Tim McKeogh] 


------------------~---­
Editorials 

Tuesday, November 20, 1979 -page 6 

Chomp, chomp, chomp 
WASHINGTON--The Supreme 
Court agreed last week to decide 
whether you can patent a new life 
form created hyman in a laboratory. 
It goes under the name of genetic 
engineering. One of the cases has to 
do with a scientist at General Electric 
who made a bacterium in the lab and 
called it Pseudomonas. The bacteri­
um is capable of eating oil spills by 
breaking down the molecular struc­
ture of petroleum as it floats on the 
ocean. 
I am nor concernedwhether you can 
patent Pseudomonas or not. What 
worries me is that the bacterium 
exists at all. 
As with so many things scientists 
come up with, it sounds great in a 
test rube. Everyone hates oil spills, 
and if you can have hungry organ­
isms feasting on the stuff it solves 
that problesm. 
But what hafpens after the bacter­ium ears up al the oil that is spilled? In a few days the Pseudomonas will start getting humgry again and going after oil that is being drilled up from the ocean floor. It will start chompin~ away at any fuel it can get its teeth m, and it's not inconceivalbe that as billions of them work their way through an oil field there will be nothing left to pump up but salt water. 
Chomp, chomp, chomp--and there go all the reserves in the North Sea. Chomp, chomp, chomp--and it's goodby the the oil in the Gulf of Mexico. Chomp, chomp, chomp--and you can kiss the petroleum off the coast of California goodby. 
The Pseudomonas can't tell the difference between oil. spilled from a ranker and oil on the ocean floor . .All it knows is that if it wants to survive, it has w eat. And one lousy tanker 
-TheObserver_·
~
.................___ 
&xQ Notre Dtl•e, IN 46JJ6 
TIM OjstmJer is an independent ocwspapcr published by the students ofthe Un~versiry ofNotre Dame du lac and Sainr Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Art Buchwald 
spill will not feed a family ofbacteria 
very long. 
If this tsn't enough to make you 
nervous, what happens when the 
bacteria start clinging to the shoes of 
someone working on an oil rig? 
There is a big turnover in men who 
work on oceangoing rigs. After a 
while they long to drill on land. 
Suppose the rigger moves to Texas 
and wears the same shoes in the 
Panhandle. The bacteria will immed­
iately start going down the well and 
chomp, chomp, chomp--it's arrive­
derci to Texas oil. 
I know that someone will ar~ue that 
the Pseudomonas won't eat oil unless 
it's mixed with salr water. But 
bacteria ·are very adaptable organ­
isms, and if they can't swill their 
petroleum with salt water they'll take 
1t straight. 
Once the Pseudomonas gets into our domestic oil it's a short step for it to the refinery and then into your home heating tank. Chomp, chomp, chomp--and half the oil that cost you 90 cents a gallon will be digested by bacteria before it gets to your furnace. 
I may be unfair to the pseudomonas, or the man who created it. For all I know the bacterium may get its fill of oil spills and then die. But genetic engineering is a dangerous game, and when you start creating bacteria in a test tube you have no tdea what they're going to feast on. 
Today it may just chomp on tar balls off Cape Cod, but tomorrow it might decide that sweet oil tasted b~er. When it does it's shalom to Saudi Arabia. 
(c) 19l9, Los Angeles Times Syndi-. cate. 
J' 
administration of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and as objectively: as possible. Editorials represe~t ~~c opinaon of a majori~ of the Ednortal. Board. Commentaries, opinions. .and letters are the views of their authors, Column space is avail­able to all members of the community. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

Blood Sport 
WASHINGTON-It isn't often that I 
discover I have anything in common 
with Tolstoy, one of my heroes. But 
the other day, a friend convinced me 
that I did: ''Your children ignore you 
when you preach the vegetarian line. 
So did Tolstoy's." 
With Thanksgiving on hand, and the 
three McCarthy boys happily playing 
the annual blood sport of turkey 
eating, I will sit at the! head of the 
table and feel as the great Count Leo 
must have felt among the flesh-eaters 
at his table: loved but misunder­
stood, heard but not heeded. 
The exits and entrances of my 
vegetarian arguments have been 
revolving doors through which my 
boys pass in separate compartments 
of personal taste. Turkeys are 
flavorful, they say, let's eat 'em. 
That holds for cows, pigs, chickens 
and other cooked corpses served up 
by the cadaver lobby known as the 
American meat industry. 
I don't talk like that at table. 
George Bernard Shaw, another veg­
etarian and another hero, regularly 
did, only to end up being described 
by Oscar Wilde: Shaw "has no 
enemies but is intensely disliked by 
all his friends.'' 
I have been told by a number of 
vegetarians that I do the cause no 
good at all, much less the moral and 
physical health of my children, by 
allowing meat into my house, how­
ever much I keep it from entering my 
mouth. I considered that ham­
handed approach once, but on the 
day that the boys leave the nest I'd 
like it to be for grander reasons than 
rushing off for the forbidden plea­
sures of Burger King. 
According to a wh1msical essay on vegetarianism it Time magazine ear­lier this month, I am not part of the sociological pattern. "The conflict between beef and greens," said Time, is caused by vegetarian adolescents using their bloodless diet to rebel against their carnivore parents. The essayist didn't say where he did his research, but I can't believe that large numbers of the young are renouncing chicken breasts for chickpeas, or hamburger for Limburger. 
Even if the children do come to their senses about the horrors of meat, the assault on the rest of the kitchen can be terrifying. Dick Gregory--the final hero I will cite--reports that after he "gave up meat and became a vegetarian, my weight went from 130 pounds up to 288 pounds. It was because offear: By not knowing how healthy I was I really thought I was endangering my life. But I was 
willing to make that ·sacrifice from a moral standpoint .. .I was even drink­ing, smoking four packs of cigarettes a da~·· Anythin'f that didn't have to be killed, I ate.' 
Gluttony in the name ofmorality has yet to entrap the McCarthy boys. But when I see them chomping into a breast of turkey, a leg of lamb or shank of cow, it is hard to hold back. What a moment, I think for making the strong pitch for vegetables and fruits; the economic argument in the immense wastefulness caused by using ani~als for food, the health issue that links meat consumption with diseases, and the ethics that give value to animal life. 
But hold back, I do. Mealtim¢ with 
Colman McCarthy 
children is better g~ven over to examples than dc:bate, and it's wise to keep it light. It is a moment to talk about Amby Burfoot, the distance runner who won at Boston in 1968 and runs marathons on vegetables and fruits. Or Marty Feldman, the British comedian-actor whose wife is from a family of butchers. Feldman has said that, "It was not the idea of their Catholic daughter marrying a 
Jew that shocked them. It was the idea that the daughter of a family of butchers was marrying a vegetarian .. I mean bow would a butcher under­stand a vegetarian?" 
At Thanksgiving, the hope of peace­ful relations between men and tur­keys seem dim. But glimmers of progress do appear. Last month, the Associated Press reported that the 
U.S. Army once considered turkey feathers as a weapon in biological warfare. Test showed that turkey feathers, when dusted with cereal rust spores and dropped from planes, are excellent contaminants of farm­land. 
I gave full support of defending America and stopping communism with turkey feathers. First, we have more turke,·: than Russia, as the CIA could confirm. Second, I volunteer the McCarthy boys to be in charge of the program. 
I recall their Great Living Room War--my wife_ and I were at the movies--when they cut open pillows to blindside each other with goose feathers. With briefings from a few generals at the Pentagon's Turkey Command Center, the boys could easily make the transition from goose feathers to turkey feathers. 
And I'd be happy because the defense budget would be lowered, gobble-gobble turkeys being cheaper than C5A or MX missile turkeys. 
[c]1979, The Washington Post Co. 


Editotial Board and. Department Man~ers 
Editor-i11-chi'e(. •... ~; ..Rosc:~ary ~ills Sports BtU/or ............,.....Mark Perry Managt-,g Editor.......•..Daane W1lson Futr~res &Jilor.1.'•• Kathlecp ConnellyEditorial Etiitor... ;.•·.:......~Ann Gales Photo Editor............ (,,Doug Christian 
li---~~-----....;;;.....___

Senior Copy ,P.Jitor .........M. Onufralt Exec11tive News Editor.....~Mike Lewis B11siness .Malf4ger ........Steve Odland News Editor.....................Mark Rust Prod11ctio11 MAuger.....]ohn McGrath News P.Jitor ......·'· .........Mike Shields Advertisi11g Mauger.........Bob Rudy SMC Exec11tive Editor.....Ellc:n Buddr. ControUer..................Kevin Manion SMC News Editor........Margie Brasstl Circ11/atio" Miluger......Greg Hedges 
......... ·"·· • ,. ... ~ .............,A. ..... ... ~ ... ..,A. ....... ~ •• ~ ._. ~ ~ ,. },. '" .. t • ! t 1 ; 1 s s _; s _ s ..e .... ~·-'..: ..:_:s_:_.• • ..... & ~ ~ ..... -.... ••• ........... . 

The Observer Tuesday, November 20, 1979 -page 7 
P.O. Box Q 

sun's warm rays .reflecting off this campus have worked to· conventional buildup of recent worthwhile tests, to lecture inHostages must be the golden dome. wards a similar goal. We, as years and is willing to go to war an organized, comprehensible This sounds sentimental be­members of a Christian Univer­with the Soviets. fashion; they must have a goodsaved by cause it is meant to be. As a sity that so highly values justice At the present, the most we teaching method. I find that an freshman I am filled with and individual dignity must can do IS to boycott Iranian alarming number of teachers 
excitement and optimism about respond to the individuals who products, including oil, expel lack credentials of this kind.diplomacy my future here at Notre Dame. are suffering from the many all Iranian students who A student who has a question already I have had some of the injustices. violently demonstrate in favor on matrices, atomic theory, or Dear Editor: best times ofmy life in a place I It is a positive sign that we of this act of piracy, cancel all medieval feudalism wants a feel lucky to be at. Notre Dame have the support of the major foreign aid to Iran, sever rela­satisfactory answer, not a list of Within the last ten days we is special, and it is so because organizations of this campus, tions with them, and ask all of degrees held and books author­have been deluged by reports of the people that are assoCiat· and we, the CILA members are our allies to do likewise. ed bv the teacher. Knowledge 
from Iran and what the Iranians ed with 1t. . .the teachers, and aptitude for teaching are
grateful. This support reflects
have been doing, and also with twodifferent things. St. Paul
students, workers, fans, and your belief in the need for this Michael A. Casey 
points this out in 1 Corinthiansthe many reports of what we as yes, the alumni. University to carry out what we 

Americans have been doing in The alumni I see are the ones 12:8 and many teachers point it
say we stand for. I think that it return to vent our collective who drive fifteen hours in one is imperative that all the indiv­Teaching: out every day. 
anger. But simply put there is night to see a game or save a I have a friend with an M.A.
iduals who value this University 
little that we can do to Iran, to in theology, a Gi-'A of 3 98 in all
year to but a plane ticket. The and what itstandsfor to continue 
Iranian students, to the Ayatol­alumni who wheel up in Lin­to support CILA and Method over undergraduate aad graduate
work 

lah or for that matter to anyone, coins or arrive in Lear jets are work, glowing recommenda.
towards developing more pro­
.
that will get the hostages the exception, not the rule. The grams within the University mm.d? rions from past ~tudeo.ts and returned. We could of course alumni I see are the ones who that would give students the colleagues auesting to his give in to the dem_ands that the teaching excellence, arid. more
proudly show their wide-eyed opportunty to carry out their Dear Editor: Shah be returned but that is kids the famous spots on cam­Christian values. ~ credit hours in rheology than 
not only against our principles pus and "the room where I Teachers at most any level of required by most PhD pro­but also against the basic tdea education have adequate cred­grams. Yet when h~·applied for
lived." Mary Meg McCarthy 
entials in that they have an"ap­
of freedom upon which this Notre Dame is as fine as any CILA !Treasurer a teaching job at the small, nation was founded. university in the world. Its propriate degree, may be re­liberal arts college where he did We all hope the Iranians keep athletic prowess is to be hailed. cognized as experts in their his undergraduate work, he was 
their heads and eventually re­Andany one of us who has spent field, or may even have written told that he was "unqualified." turn the hostages but if they a night at our desks reading a book or two. The question I As a student and as a future don't, what alternative do we Plato or studying for Emil's Military pose is this: do credentials of teacher of history or theology I have? If we attacked Iran, WP quiz, can attest to the fact that this kind alnn~ make for good find stories like this one very would have to wipe out almost it is a fine university with a intervention teachers? I say no. distressing. I think that since a the entire nation to the last good football team, and not a Of course Sv!neone who wants teacher's· job is to teach, the man, woman and child. They team with a university. It is we to teach must have extensive ability to do this should be would fight a Holy War, just as the studentswho every Saturday implausible knowledge in their field, but weighed much more than it is they did a short year ago. To lend our whole-hearted support equally 1f nor more important, by schools hiring teachers. 
totally destroy Iran would be a along with countless others. Dear Editor: they must be able to explain, to questions, DanKeusalpermanent scar on the Ameri­And on Sunday we will again be answer to design 
can character. Can anyone tell at our desks and the alumni will I am writing in response to 
me how we can effectively wage be on their way home. Christopher Stewart's letter 'l'' 


war on a nation that small and I look forward to someday, published in the November 13 
come up a winner in any sense returning, as an alumnus with issue of The Observer. While I 
of the word? my family and knowing that I agree with Mr. Stewart's analy­
:(AI'Atba':}·'···· 
~Justice Forestalled'
We could bt>at up on the 

will be welcome. For as Notre sis of the Iranian situation and Iranian student but how could Dame will not forget us, we will his condemnation of the present we justify that action? To never forget Notre Dame. Iranian regime, I do not feel Sergio X. Madrigdl
attack the Iranian students that massive military invasion AI alba is a state of mind. It minorities. ,. MALDEF, thewould only bring more hatred Joseph Skelly with Marines would be the is not a person, nor a political Mexican-American tegal .Qe­and reprisals between Iran and 

answer, should the hostages be 
ro~vement, nor'alocalbat. It is fen$e Fund headquartered /tinthe U.S. The students should killed. This is not because I the running title for this Washington, D.C., has com­be deported if in violation of our oppose the use ofmilitary force; '-t.JliuuuJ_,.. but it. was mistakenly piled a doss~er of 53 cases,,qflaws, but by the same rule our I that are
indeed feel there
CILA expresses · · · to the author's by-: poli~e hnna]Jty. As bad as ,t~e
citizens should be held to the some situations tha~: only mili­column . 6). injustices encountered here
law. Losing our heads will only tary intervention cw solve. 
are,·

lead to more troubles, and appreciation Rather, I disagree with this 
could lose what we have to 

action because I feel that the save, the sixty hostages in United States would be unable 
Tehran. We must save the for support at the present time to deal with 

hostages in diplomatic ways for the consequences that such an 
we can't revenge their deaths. action would produce. 
Pray for peace, don't lobby for Dear Editor: 

First of all, the logistical war. problems that such an invasion I would like to take this would cause are enormous. If james W. Keating vpportunity to thank the Mardi troops were dropped in, their Gras Fund Committee, Board of extraction would be difficult, if Com~issioners, ~nd Volunteer not impossible. Troop ships Services for ' therr support of would have to pass through the
Alumni 

CILA through the fund allot-narrow bottleneck of the Per­ment. ClLA.feels ~ery strongly sian Crulf, which could be easily inaccurately that the se:v1~e projects that we Jefended. Flying many planes in perform !"lthm the South Bend would be difficult because ofportrayed Commumty,. throug~out the Iran's proximity to.•h.... -E~.:.--::~ county, and m the Third WorML :·~n · 0 n~n.J --<-.:-~ d c
· -~f'~.x·~ --,.;~ __ 1 .. ~ncr-ILS atr etense 
Dear Editor: ~re· an tmporca~n p~f 0 our systems. Also, Iran's nei hbors 
lives ~t this Umv.ers!ty. Your include a Soviet all (f )"
The article "Reflections on financtal supJ?ort mdtca~es ~hat AND Pakistan, wh~se ra~e~ 
Notre Dame" (Nov. 16) by S.] · you agree; ~Ith our objeCtives government has not proven its 
Kotz and M. Hyinie Heany is and are willing to support us as friendliness to the U.S. These 
not an accurate portrayal of the we atte~pt to grow and offer nations could possibly prevent 
alumni, nor does it reflect the c![~ervtces to others through u.s. plan~s .from J.>assing 
true spirit of· the Notre Dame h.. k h . . through thetr airspace m order 
community. . . 1 t m t at t.t ts ~xtre.me 1y . to reach Iran. 

As a freshman at Notre Dame tmp<?rtant for thts Umversuy to Second, such an invasion 
I am ~ickled by the influx of contmue t? encoura~e ~nd sup-would be seen by the Soviets as 
alumm upon our campus each ~rt service orgamzatlons ~n a grave danger to their national 
football weekend. ·H~w can <;me this campus. Not only IS security, much as we would see 
not take pleasure 10 seemg srudent support needed, but ~e a Soviet invasion of Mexico as a 
people enjoy themselves i!l a ne<;d th~ ~upport of the enure grave danger to our natioi:uil 
healthy way. E,ach g~e 1~ a· l::Ji:t1':'erstty. faculty, st~, ad-security. ~n such a situation 
chance; for soine dc;servmg mm!strauon, ~nd a~umm. As a they would probably interv~ne. 
alumm to return t<k his. alma ·-ChrlS~tan U.ntverstty" .. we .are This. would starr a war that we· 
mater and perhaps,~capture a called t~, gq heyond, gur e':'«Y· oould ill-afford. The., Soviet 
fo.rgotten 'memory"or see an ~old ~Y. du.ttes as an educational . Unio,n is now superior to us In 
fnend. ~' . ·. -•·· msnruuonl Do .we; as st~dents alinost eveiy facet of conve~ ._ 
A football,.-'!eek~.nd ts. a--' go ~yond thatluntt now·. If w~ .tiona! military power. J~... 
chance for a ' fr~end . of N~e don t start now • when will we· Europe alone we are heavily
Da~e to leave hts datly rout~e ·-~-CILA has attempted throug~: outnumbered an~ could JlOt be 
behmd-·that of long hours tn ~ut the years_ to offer opportuOI counted on to wan a land war 
the office or above a hot ties for students to challenge there. A military invasion in 
stove--and sit back and relax themselves t~ go beyond the Iran cannot succeed at least 
amidst tailgaters spent··. in an everyday routmes. 9th~r vol-until the U.S. does ~omething 
afternoon resplendent wuh the unteerI servtce orgamza~w~s on to counter the massive Soviet 
. .. • ,. ..... " ... 4 .... ~ 4o .. , 
......, ..... \ • 'I ., ........ 
T:uesday, November 20, 1979-page 8
Features 




Taylor Interview 
Molly Woulfe 
Surely the door will be unlocked by an agent or a secretary. But a rumpled 
Livingston Taylor, six foot, four inches tall, blonde and blue-eyed, opens it 
himself. His smile is tired, but friendly. 
I lis resemblance to James Taylor, his famous older brother is striking; same 
high brow, straight nose, same profile. And the same low, North Carolina 
drawl. 
Livingston, however, is an accomplished composer/musician/singer in his 
,>wn right. Once touring with big names like Linda Ronstadt and Jethro Tull, 
he now performs alone, singing his easy-listening songs and mildly-rocking 
tunes to over 150 small colleges a year · to small but devoted bands of fans. 
Though he hires "the best people who play" when producing an album, he 
prefers w accompany himself, with his six-string Japanese "Tama" guitar, 
his banjo. or his piano, when on stage. 
.. I. m my most conscientious player," Taylor explains. "There are many 
be;tn. but none more conscientious." 
Stretchinl? our on his kingsize bed in his small hotel suite, the 28-year-old 
!Tl'J•;ician. 111 a green pullover vest with a camel stitched across the front, a 
, nJinpkd white Oxford shin, and tan slacks, apologizes for being "so laid 
o111. · • Set'ms he just returned Sunday from a three-week headline tour in 
.1 1pan. At the moment, he's in South Bend for a concert at Saint Mary's. 
lonwrrow. he thinks, he'II be "somewhere in Ohio." 
lap;ln. Taylor muses, "is a very special place. I had a very special time." 
.·he audiences, he continues, ''are far more reserved, more disctplined,'' than 
\nwrican ones. As a result, his one-man show had to be more polished 
tvdmicall~·. "You just play --it becomes far more important than the 
rnusiL. · · 
Breaking into the music business at age 17, Taylor recalls that his family 
·had a lot of influence" in his choice of profession. His father is a composer, 
and his three brothers, Alex, James, and Hugh, and sister Kate, have all cut 
rheir own records or sung background for each other. Taylor recently 
provided backing vocals for Kate's "It's in There" album, but remains the 
<)nh-member of the Taylor brood who hasn't sung background for James. He 
all ributes rhis to conflicts in their schedules, adding that when they are 
rogerher, they "do sing together, and enjoy it a lot." 
··.\ty· singing sounds a great deal like James', because we're brothers," 
Taylor adds. "I learned to play the guitar watching him play. He's the best." 
Taylor's first album, "Livtngston Taylor" appeared in 1970. The album sold 
··well enough to buy a house,'' Taylor remembers, noting dryly that one song, 
..Carolina Days," made it to No. 81 on the charts. 
llis next two albums, "Liv" and "Over rhe Rainbow" were released 
respectively in 1971 and 1973. They gained more recognition overseas than in, 
r he Statt"s, and Taylor toured in England, but American record companies 
were warr. 
"I had a lot of trouble getting a record contract then," Taylor smiles. 
· Sometimes you're hot, sometimes you're not." 
Tavlor finally secured backing for his comeback "Echoes" album, and in .July. I !J7H. his "J Way Mirror" hit the market, his most successful venture as vet. having sold over 100,000 copies. Three songs, "I Will Be In Love With You, .. "L.A. Serenade," and "Going Round One More Time" are current easy.lisrening hits. . 
Taylor, who writes "about 75 percent" of the lyrics and music on hts albums, 
is pleased with "3 Way Mirror's" reception, but adds that he is "always surprised and complimenred whenever anyone comes to hear me play.'' 
.. Bur I like playing to those who want to hear me." 
The small crowd of students packed into the front half of Saint Mary's 
()"Laughlin Hall last Wednesday night definitely wanted to hear him, too. 
Livingston Taylor 
Wednesday, Nov 14 Aforeau Jrheatre 
At first, the man who strode out onto the stage was not the soft-spok­en, disheveled mao in the hotel room. In an immaculate three-piece beige -<uit, carna~ion pinned to his lapel,. 
ltke a -..1~rn hank president than a (arolin;l guitarist. And then sudden­!~· rhe jaLket was draped over a chair, rhe vest unbuttoned,. and Taylor was strumming his guitar in the middle of rhe srage and rambling about Japan, teaching the crowd how to say '"hey, this feels good" in Japanese. 
Taylor alternately moved the crowd from a wi..qful state to laughter to hand·dapping emhusiasm with a vanery of numbers, ranging from a gently intense version of "Some­wlwre over the Rainbow" to his own downhome-style ''Carolina Days.'' 
.\1ugging and winking, he frequent­!\ inrroduced a new song by relating a bnyhuod or adolescent experience. One time he recounted of how he had .. a crush on a girl named Jane" and asked her w the movies. "We got in there, the lights went out, the feature came on, and I panicked. All I could do was eat Milk Duds and wish I were dead," Taylor recalled. Later, at the girl's house, Taylor claimed he took her hand, looked in her eyes, <lnd... Dar/in ' you send me Honest you do Oh, wh~n I'm near you You thnll me 
Honest you do ... 
Molly Woulfe · 
At first it was infatuation But its lasted so long ... 
Another time, Taylor confessed he occasionally •'has to write something deep--way deep." As the audience quieted, anticipating a love song, a grinning Taylor launched into 
It's raining, let me go out It's raining, it's raining I want to jump in th ..._ddles.. . While Livingston's voice has the 
same velvety 'lowness as James', and is well-suited for his lullaby numbers and slower songs, he als,o proved he could"Belt it out" with his howl-at­the-moon version of"This Tale Don't Ring True;'' 
I took you to a nightclub 

LETTERS A Y GOD 
The New England Way 
Fr. Robert Griffin 

As a boy. growing up in the New England way, taught about God by the Congregauonal Sunday school and about America by the public schools, I nev~r d.oubt~d for a moment th~t the Lord loved America as Jacob loved BenJamin, hts.youn~est a~d favorite ~on. Quite simply. America was the new Canaan, fl~wmg wtth. milk and honey; it was Eden regained, the country throu~h whtch the nattons were blessed, the sweet land of Beulah, promised by Isata:hand the prophets. America had never lost a war; it never could lose a war, because God was our commander-in-chief. While I was a school child Irving Berlin wrote ''God B!essAmerica,'' and Kate Smith sang it, and th~ song told us what we all beheved. Everybody blessed America, unless they were bullies and tyrants, a~d hated freedom. We were the good guys, brave and strong; we helped the httl~ guys ~ho were.t<?o weak to fielp themselves. God k.ept us together as a natton dunng the Ctvtl War. He fought with the ~mencan boy~ we sent overseas to .toppl~ the Kaiser. If .England and France couldn t protect themselves agatnst HJtler, we would save them again. Freedom was the greatest gift of heaven. America had more of it than anybody, and we wanted every other country to have the blessings of freedom. The Stars and Stripes were a symbol of decency and honor bought and paid for by the patriots' blood. 
When World ':X'ar II b~oke out, ~he ~reacher at the Baptist church said that Eu~ope was ~emg pumshe~ for tts Sin~. The Lord was using the godless natt<)~S as Hts rod to chasuse the unnghteous people, the preacher said. Amenca had better be careful, or God would smite it too because of the sinfulness ofcocktai! lounges, the filth ofHollywood movies, ~nd the novels of Srembeck and Hemtngway that were filled with smut. 
I had bc.en going to the Baptist churc~ with a ftien<;J., and I was.heari.ng for the first ume that God was d!sple!lsed wtth the w~y thmgs were gomg wtth the ho!fle folks. The Congregauonaltsrs never mentioned a word aboutAmerica's bemg t.ested by fire. The reason for that, said the Baptist preacher, was that the Congrega~tonalis_ts ne-:er read their Bibles. Why,Congregationalists were proba~ly buymg dnn.ks 10 t~ose cocktail lounges. They were probably att~~dmg those offenstve movtes and reading the trashy novels, and probably wntwg som<:> of that trash themselves. The Bible was clear, said the preacher: God would not endure a nation like America that was a stench unto His nostrils; even ifit were His favorite child, He would cut that nation off He w~mld st.rip it down in its prime, and its youth would strew the fruited pl~ins wtth the.tr bones. It ~ouldn't suptise him at all, said the preacher, if Christ the almtghr.y . avengmgjudge were to appear soon in the heavens for the final tesnng of ~he worl ..Any day now, or. at night when the world was asleep, Jesus mts-hr come hke a thJef; and s1ft the saved from the sinners amidst the grindmg and gnashing of teeth. ' 
I waited to see what would happen, nervous about rhe war nervous about r~e coming punis~ment of the world. Thankssiving Day, 1941, was the last nme that our famlly, as I had grown up knowmg it, were all together. My 
grandfather and grandmother were there. A prayer of gratitude was offered for God's srado~sness in sparing us from sickness and death, and we prayed that we mtght ltve and keep our health so that we could feast together at Thanksgiving in the following year. Our family prayers were always like that: full of an on-thr-beach feeling, knowing rhe dooms that could strike us but trusting. God that it wouldn't happen. Our prayers never talked ;bout prospenty or success. We knew we would get al?ng even if we were poor; we JUSt w!'lnted to keep each o~her, that was all. We JUSt wanted to be together as a famtly, unmolested by stckness and dearh, for as long as possible. 
On December 7, 1941, the war began, and the fear began, and I lived with it day after day: the fear that some of us wouldn't make tt through the war; the fear that God was judging His nation and finding it guilty. 
On December 8, we had our first air raid alert 10 that town on the coast of' M~ine, an~ I knew that all the terror English children, German children, C~mese children, had suffered could happen to me in the dear, familiar ne1ghborhood where I had ~rown up. I could imagine, from seeing the newsreels, what it would be ltke with the bombs falling, and I was sick to my stomach with the thought of how helpless my mother and grandmother would be. I could never talk to anyone about my fear; bur for months and months after we entered the war, 1 lay awake nights, listening ~for the noise of, bombers flying over the house. ' . · 
On Thanksgiving Day, 1942, my grandparents died, the two deaths occurring only hours apart. On the same day, a beloved friend died, the mother of my best chums. Two months after that, two of my classmates at school died, one fr<)m sickness and the other in an accident. . In the f~ar an~ grie':'ing brought by dea.th, among the effects of loss on an 1_magmanve. chtld, wlth the trauma asststed, perhaps, by the theological footnotes of an evangelical, Bible-thumping preacher, something terrible happened to me, after which the world could never again be safe, ordered 
·-hideaway ofchilgbood; something which now seems to have been, for lack ofa b~tler w&rdr 111(; lt~·vf-inllW:ence, 
The h1ss ofinnocence; for me, was the awareness that I could be touched, on every level of life, with the pains and disasters of existence. Being American wouldn't save my land from being bombed like any Shantung village. Being Christian would not save my soul from being justly judged by God, and maybe Jesus wouldn't love me after all, because I was wicked. Being a child wouldn"t save me from death, from accident of disease, and my mother's cookies and my grandmother's handmade guilts couldn't l'rotect me from a bomb that might fall on my little bed while I was sleepmg. And even if Americans were the good. guys, we could still lose a war, because we deserved ro lose, because of our sms. 
No matter how good the turkey is, or how numerous the pies; no matter how grand the company is, or how blessed the year, there is something that is always apocalyptic, for me even now, about Thanksgiving, as though in the midst of all the blessings, a judgment was being made, and something or someone was going to be found lacking, even Eden, and therefore wholly 
~~~~~~of~~~~~------------~---------1 
You sazd your lzfe was tame 
We stepped into the joint The whole bandknew your name. 
Songs from "3 Way Mirror" proved to be the best known numbers of the evening. These included "Going Round One More Time," 'Til Come ~unn~ng," and Taylor's biggest hie, 
I Wtll Be In Love With You." 
"Well, I'm having a pretty good time," beamed Taylor as the audi­ence thundered applause, and called 
him back for three encores. 
Back in the hotel, Taylor admits his style has changed since the early seventies. ''I've become less tor­tured, more consistent now," he comments, leaning back against a pillow. "And I really enjoy making music.'' 
Taylor's next album is scheduled to be released in January, so obviously record companies are beginning to enjoy his music-making, again, too. 
Tuesday, November 20, 1979 -page 9

The Observer 
I
IN CONCERT 
I 
Molly Hatchet-Point Blank 
J 
Thursda_y, November 15 Mick Mancuso 
It was an intense weekend musical-from .the fastest rising band to cross ly. South Bend, usually a music~! the Mason-Dixon in years.
I void, would witness 3 .concerts m There's nothing more enjoyable than 1 three nights. 'Starring off on Thurs-seeing a band that really enjoys what II night, Molly Hatchet blasted its way they'nidoing and such was the case through town at the Morris Civic in a with Molly Hatchet show that those m attendance won't As the show drew closer to the end, ­
I 
I 
forget too easily. Thursday night the things got rowdier and hotter as the I Morris Civic left South Bend and band really started to play the crow~l. I found itself rockin' down south. Steve Holland sent the place up tor , 
The show opened up with a bang as grabs as ~e reeled across the stage Texas rockers Point Blank shot the while playtng a lead and all the nme 1 crowd with a taste of things to come. making it look as easy as rhewi'lg I Point Blank has been around for a gum. The only two things tttat 
·' I I 
while but after seeing their set charged up the house more were the Thursday night I would really be lead singer, Danny Joe Brown's surprised if they don't break out on swigs of Jack Danier s \X'hi~k('y and the charts real soon. It's not too often the line-ups when !he whole .guitar that \'OU don· t want the backup band section would get together at the to stop playing but that was the case. edge of the stage and reel back and 
The band displayed their prowess, forth. running from funky stuff like "Mean _ Playing two encores, Molly Hatchet to Your Queenie" which had some quickly as Molly Hatchet took the looked as if he was it as he took the saved the best for last. Brown's 1 really sharp slide work in it, to stage to the theme from "Dragnet". stage over on each of the guitar vocals were strong thoughout the 
I

"Change My Mind". a definite The crowd was ready to rip the seats breaks so characteristic of Southern night but they really showed off as mellow winner which wound itself out as the band broke into "Bounty rock. It'wasn'r until the band played the band did "Boogie no More." I into one of the hottest guitar breaks Hunter", their first hit from their an old Jimmy Rodgers number, "-r: Anyone who wants to dump on this I've heard in a while. Definitely first album. They couldn't have for Texas", that we really got to see. band will get a strong ~rgument here. highlighting the show was· a cover of picked a better opening numbs:r as I had seen Lynrd Skynrd, a band "Highway Star". Unfortunately, the hot rocker set the pace for the what the"rest of the troops could do. that Hatchet gets alot of hell abour 1 most of the crowd was too young to whole evening: fast and furious. There's only one way to describe the because they sound so much alike, in realize how much justice was done to Molly Hatchet is one of those bands way Hatchet worked together on the their heyday and I would have to say the original Deep Purple version. that has what's called in southern tune: WOW. Hlubek and Steve that what I saw Thursday night was The twin guitar work of Rusty Burns rock circles a "three man guitar Holland got things going with an every bit as good, if not better. The and Kim Davis is definitely the best army'', but from the start it was excellent twin lead only to get better last song was somewhat contradic­thing this band has going as they established that Dave Hlubek was as Duane Rolland joined in to fill out tory as Brown sang "seems like kept the current flowtng thoughout without a doubt the general. Hlubek the crew. .nobody wants to boogie no more." It the all too short a set. worked his guitar and the crowd into from thin point on in the show the was the other way around.; the band 
I was wondering what kind of a frenzy as he ripped out one hot lead rest of the band split things evenly as and the crowd could have boogied all following Molly Hatchet had in this after another. they traded offgiving the crowd what night long. Jack Daniels would have area. My question was answered For the first part of the concert it they came for, hot southern rock been proud. 
Don Henley singing from behind his EaJ!,Ies are extremely gifted to have 
drum kit and Walsh and Don Felder these two fine guitarists in the same 
trading off slide leads you could have band and it was a shame that they 
sworn you were listening to the never do a twin jam and only tease record on WRBR. us. Maybe nex.t tour. A lor of credit goest to Henley; The tempo continued as the band 
EAGLES 
Blue Steel 

playing the drums and singing at the made a pitch for the Joe Walsh for
November 16 Mick Mancuso same time is no easy task. Henley president campaign as they did does an excellent job of it. A "Life's Been Good to Me." Walsh's mysterious second drummer .ac­v<icals were weak as ever but his companied the group on the tune and awesome slide work at the end more one really questioned the neccessity. than made up for it. It kind of makes A two drum attack is fine for someone one wonder why someone doesn't like The Outlaws but in the Eagles just tell him to "Shut up and play and case it made the band sound too let Frey or Henley sing." The old boomey, especially on "Already craziness was still there too as he and Gone'' where it gave the song an Helder hopped across the stage. almost methodical effect. The set ended with ''Life in the Fast 
A portion of the crowd had come to Lat'R!"' ', also a predictable--ending but see Walsh and they weren't disap­also. very good. That's one thing that pointed. The only complaint would bothered me about the concert, as have to be that when the band did good as it was it was very predict­"In The City" th~y did a version able. You knew from the start that closer to that that appears on The they would play "Rocky Mountain Long Run and not like the more slide Way''· for their encore and sure embelished version on the sound­enough they did. Same with "Take it track to "The Warriors." Maybe this Easy" for their second encore. fhe 
' the Eagles way of playing down the most disappointing thing about the · presence of Walsh. Whatever the whole show was the highly conspi­case the tune worked nicely with cuous absence of" Iames Dean", orie, Walsh playing double neck slide. of their early classics. One left feeling , The Eagles talked alot more to the. that a lot of the crowd, including this crowd this time around than they reviewer, wanted to hear it for their normally do. The house. ate it up as third ·encore instead of "Tequila Glen Frey announced "It's nice to be Sunrise." The choice of a mellow in Digger's Place" during the intro­number to close things our jusr didn't duction to "Lyin' Eyes". It was nice seem right. It was enjoyable though Round two of A~~sorrie Concert dollars hat I would otherwise be using to hear the band ·say something as Joe Walsh came running outwith 
Weekend '79 was dcrlinit~ly a plea­for toilet paper. It was that bad. The besides ''Hey, we're the Eagles.'' bassist Timothy B. Schmit on his sure as the major deities of California only good song the band offered was As the set continued the band back. . · Glenn Frey provided fine rock brought their tour to the.A.C.C. ''Twist One Up and Burn One seemed to get more relaxed as well as mellow acoustic work as he had· all 
Yes, those mellow: boys that occas­Down'', a humorous number that the crowd getting more up as each night· while Felder displayed hi_soffered the only possibility of how
sionally get rowdy; Th_e Bagles, song came down. Especially well prowess at the mandolin. 
finally made t~ ,j;South you could have sat through the whole was Tonite",
it Bend. received "Heartache All in all, The Eagles put on a tig~t
,1 r 1· 

£?espire the outrag~pus price of the set. probably the best cut off their new show Friday night. I wouldn't say It 
Whenever the opener stinks it only

trckets, I don't tlillnk a :soul came album. Once again Walsh stole the was the best thing I'd seen in years
works to make the headliner look stage with slide work that could only but it was very good. It was the kindaway from the show, the b~t the better. I don't know if that ;was the

A.C.C. has offere~ 1 uhis year; feeling be described as slick. Finally, during of middle of the road top 40 stuff that ripped off or unsatisfied. You see, idea the Eagles had in mind or if it Felder's intro to "Turn to ~tone" we has made the group's albums such 
was just Don Henley's loyalty to Blue 

learned the identity of the mysterious successes. It was disappointing in a
Friday night you not only ~flw..The Steel guitarist Richard Bowde~ th~t second drummer. It was none other way that everything sounded so much _Eagles, but. you also j!Say The got them on the bill. One thmg 1s than Joe Vitale from Walsh's old like the album with very littleBomber," .Joe Walsh. i certain though, The Eagles more Barnstormin' days. Also playing innovation. In a way it is a coinci­

There is unly one way to describe than made up for it as they played keyboards and a dynamite flute, dence that the only innovations as one hell-of-a-set, including not only

the opening· act, Blue Stt;el : WHY? Vitale's presence was a special treat well as the best parts of the show I guess I could throw m a lot of new material and greatest hits but when you consider the past he's had. came from Joe Walsh. Like it or not, adjectives like bad news,· boring, also four hot Joe Walsh tunes. The song in itself was one of the the fact remains that without Joe, an 
1 

totally worthless, and lackluster but The concert opemng as predictable highlights of the evening as Felder Eagles concert would be about as . instead I'll say this: I wouldn't buy a as could be, none other than their top and Walsh traded off leads. The exciting as watching the corn grow. · · Blue Steel alb1Jm unless I . had ~i?C ,4,0, ~~ll~~i~, ',' tloH~l. ~fl\ifqrpi~'' ., ,W~th 
• 4 , • • ~ • 

The Observer -Sports Tuesday, November 20, 1979-page 10 
.. 
Irish finish eighth atMSU 
by BillMarquard, . , Sports Writer · \ · 
Everyone has weekends that they would just as soon forget, and the Irish wrestling squad knows the feeling. 
"I can't really make any excuses,'' conceded Coach Ray Sepera after his squad finished a disappointing etghth in the Spartan Invitational at Michi­gan State this weekend. 
·'We won eight matches this year, as opposed to only three in 1978." remarked the fifth­year coach. "We always seem to start a little slow, and then 
Molarity 

''PIZZA coN PE.ZZ I DJ
' 
GE.SSO ''WHAT~ THAT? 


~uild ~P· Consider~!lf::;.~.~~.;~r;:,:'•i~· .Tri-captain Chris Fa,v~ finish­· ·ed fifth at 142, yet he also won
tnexpenence and our lOJUf.tes, our performance wasn't that bad.'' 
Irish tri-captain Dave DiSab­a to was undoubtedly the bright­est spot for the team. The Columbus, Ohio native won his first match 27-6, but then lost a tough 2-1 referee's decision in the semi-finals when the match was deadlocked after overtime. 
But the 134-pound senior rebounded for a 9-7 win to top the consolation bracket and finish in third place, one better than his fourth place finish at 126 in last year's tourney. 
two of his three matches. The senior from Oakmont, Pa. could have finished higher, but his loss came in his first match, thus dropping him to a lower consolation bracket. 
Freshman Mark Fisher (118), sophomore Curt Rood (126), senior tri-captain Mike Wilda 
(150) and junior AI Mattaliano 
(158) each won one match for the Irish in their respective weight divisions. 
"We could have done better in the standings, but we didn't really win any of our close 
by Michael Molinelli 

~~2a~~~~~~ 

The Daily Crossword 
All Rights Reserved 

A Roosevelt University Lawyer's Assistant represents 
the mark of quality and acceptance In today's legal 
community. 
If you are a college graduate and qualify. why not give yourself an advantage by attending Roosevelt University's Lawyer's Assistant Program which Is fully accredited by the American Bar Association. 
Since the Fall of 1974. 1250 graduates representing over 230 colleges and universities have chosen Roosevelt's Lawyer's Assistant Program for their career training. 
Specialize In: Corporations-Estates. Trusts and Wllls-Litlgauon-Real Estate and Mortgages­Employee Benefit Plans•-or become a Generalist•. 
Over 325law firms. banks. corporations and government agencies throughout the United States 
have hired Roosevelt graduates. 
·~venlng program only 
5 
9 13 14 
15 
16 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 25 28 
1 

SIE -LI A IN 0•1 A I L I A IC •JLIAINIC .IMIO IS £'C 1AIIINIO IYIO IH .AN U l!C E• lAIR IY ·-TN'-lA
IM .IE•IVEIRT L 10 !AlGIE IR ~~~~1-':4-!~I~CG~IR'IJIA~IN,W. S VI IAIE 1 I~ 1f!1 N
.I.E. •T 
TIA-rs A MIEIR IN I IM 10M 1.1 1CIMI lAIN lA WI E T IS T E T IK 
11. !Dt 

Lawyer's Assistant Program ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY 430 South Michigan Avenue Chicago. Illinois 60605 


(312) 341-3882 Please send me Information on Roosevelt's Program. ~ 
Day Programs 
0 Spring 1980-February 11-May 2, 1980 0 Summer 1980-June 12-September 5, 1980 O Fal!1980-September 22-December 12, 1980 
Evening Programs 
0 Spring-Summer'-March 11-August 22, 1980 O Fall-Winter-October 7-March 28, 1981 Recruiter will be on campus November 27 
Name __________________________________ 
Address _________Phone-----­
City State Zip--­Roosevelt University admits students on the basis of Individual merit and without regard to race. color. creed, sex. 
...!!!'~~~~dlcap. ___ 
BEFORE I ORDER DESSERT /..001<. t.JHAT''6EL.ATo 
52 Edouard's 24 Turn's friend partner 55 Co-star 25 Former of 35 A mayor of 59 Swiss Chicago painter 26 Isolated 60 Lower in 27 Poe's bird rank 28 Strike 63 Be foolish 29 Child: Scot. 62 Aquatic 30 Loft mammal 31 Baseball 63 Greek great commune 33 Lit up 64 Being: Lat. 36 Reach 37 Horse race 
DOWN 38 Ray 1 -ie roil 44 Greek 2 Gardner island 3 "I met-..." 45 Pilgrimage 4 Fellow to Mecca: 
5 Flavoring var. plant 46 Mme. de­6 Legal wrong 47 
Uptight 7 Singular 48 Inquires 8 Mal de -49 
Stubborn 9 Long: comb. one form 50 Bewildered 10 Case for 51 Thailand 52 Biblical
smallitems 
prophet
11 -breve 12 Computer 53 Ball team 54 Words ofknob 
understand·
14 Blue-pencil 
ing
17 About 18 Swear to 
56 Iron or 22 Baxter or 
sack Francis 57 Honest­23 Chicago 58 Summer airport cooler 

ACROSS 1 Entree meat 
Bit Honey drink -La Douce Battery pole King of the Huns Star's role in 35 A Poetic time Avian abode Preliminary contest British compostlr P•eminger Mended Horn or shine 

29 
32 33 34 35 
39 
40 
41 
42 43 44 46 47 48 
51 
Grill's partner Arkin Save up Corroded Theatrical hit Chemical ending Far from fresh Goddess of discord Longing Shredded Opportunity Cloy Mine car Violin family Beginning 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


matches," remarked Sepeta. 
Adding to the Irish woes were injuries. Sophomore }Dhn Iglar made the trip but was unable to wrestle because of a stiff shoulder, while freshman Paul DeBaggis, slated to start at 167, stayed home nursing an inflamed wrist. 
Yet DeBaggis' replacement, sophomore Brian Erard, pleas­ed Sepeta with his perform­ance. ''Brian gave away a lot of weight and wasn't really that well prepared on such short 
notice.  But he really held his  
own.  
Thus,  the  next  test  for  the  

Irish will be the Rochester Invitiational Tournament, slat· ed for November 30 and Dec· ember 1 at the Rochester Institute of Technology. a 
• Irish 
[continued from page 12) 
Rodrigue have split the quar­terbacking chores with Kelly boasting the biggest stars with 33 completions in 81 attempts for 492 yards including a 280­yard passing day against the Nittany Lions. Neither had much success against the Crim­son Tide last Saturday as they combined for just six como!~ tions in 28 attempts plus five costly interceptions. 
Miami's junior flanker Pat Wc..ik.er is running neck-and­neck with Irish split end Tony Hunter for national recognition in the yards-per-reception cate­gory. Walker has grabbed 22 passes averaging 26.0 y per, while Hunter seems sure set an all-time Notre Dame record with a 25.6 yards-per­catch average on 27 receptions. 
Defensively, the Irish will with much the same lineup have fielded in recent with one major exce Sophomore strong safety Cichy did not make the because of a hyper-exten elbow suffered against Clem son. Junior Tom DeSiato will start in his place. DeSiato was credited with eight tackles a­gainst the Tigers including one tackle for minus six yards. 
Irish Items: Vagas Ferguson has now completely rewritten the Notre Dame rushing record book. He holds all-time Notre Dame records for yards rushing 
~u•in a career (3,2?5"), ih a season 
(1,260), and in a single game 
(225); carries in a career (830), 
in a season (266) and in a single 
game (39); most 100-yard 
games in a career (12) and in a 
season (6) and most rushing 
touchdowns in a season (14) ... 
Bob  Crable  now  holds  the  
single-season  record  for  most  
tackles  with  173  rhus  far,  

eclipsing Steve Heimkreiter' s mark of 160 set last season. Twice this season, the sopho­more has tied the single-game standard for tackles with 26 against Clemson andSouthCaro­lina: ... One more field goal for senior placekicker Chuck Male and he sets a new Notre Dame single-season record of 13 . . . Notre Dame holds a 10-1-1 edge in the series with Miami . . . Saturday's game will rnark the first time the Irish varsity has played out.side the United States. The junior varsity play­ed in Mexico in 1971 . . . Not only are 60 Notre Dame football players in Japan, but 200 band members (that's right -200) and an official parry of 25, all at the expense of the Japanese .. .Olympic Memorial Stadium has been sold out for the Saturday afternoon (Friday e­vening EST) '"Battle of the Bands" which will include the 
bands of both colleges as well as local high school musicians . 
• 


Dillon's Scott Anderson [18] tries in vain to block Tom Bosche's [21] game-winning field goal, which gave Momssey a 3-0 overtime win Sunday. [Photo by Dave Rumbach]. 
. Astros ink Ryan to strengthen staff 
--------~----~---"----------"-~--------­
The Observer -Sports Tuesday, November 20, 1979-page 11 
• • • Overtinte 
[continued from page 12] 
however, and allowed Morris­sey's offense no forward pro­gress. After a delay of game penalty, two rushing plays and an incomplete pass, Bosche made good on his chance to be a hero with a line-drive boot that split the uprights with plenty to spare. 
Thus, Morrissey avenged its only defeat, a 14-0 loss to Dillon earlier in the season. The wild card playoff team from the South Quad had truly an out­standing year winning each of its three regular season and two playoff victories with shutouts ­a tribute to a stellar defensive unit. "We knew our defense was the strength of our club all year,'' said winning coach Dan Buckley. "They felt they had something to prove out there today though.'' 
On the other side of the ledger, it was a bitter end to a frustrating playoff series for Dillon, whose impressive un­beaten string was ended at 11. In a 26-0 semifinal win over Stanford last weekend, first string signal caller Brian Crow­ley was lost with strained knee ligaments. In addition, regular John Komora was also felled for the season, adding to the misfortune. 
In the heartbreaking defeat, linebackers Rich Carnell and Tim Sottek played well along with strong safety John Lucero. ''I'm proud ofour guys," said a disappointed Jerry Bridges, coach of the Big ReJ squad. ''We only allowed nine points all season. So I'd say our defense was darn good too. Not to take anything away from· Morrissey. They played very well, especially in cutting off our outside running game. We never were able to get our option plays to run effectively.'' 
The exciting overtime period was the end product of an eight year old rule i:hat allows each team an opportunity to score from the opponent's 10 yard line. Interhall football, which dates back to the days of Rockne, originally had a sudden death overtime period (first team to score wins). But this often resulted in tie contests. After a brief switch to a ''total yardage wins" tiebreaker, the current system was instituted in 1972. 
. A dejected Bridges had hoped the game could be decided on a touchdown, bank­ing on the Big Red offensive unit to pull it out. But someone forgot to tell Bosche, whose presence was felt throughout the game due to several awe-· inspiring punts which never allowed Dillon to start a drive in decent field position. 
''I'm happy for our seniors (Bosche, Jack McCarthy, Jim Byrne and LaVigne," beamed an elated Buckley. "This is just a great feeling." 

HOUSTON (AP)-Nolan Ryan, the American League strikeout king, joined Houston's ) .R. Richard, the major league s~rik.eout leader, Monday by stgntng a reported four-year, $4 million contract with the Astros that made Ryan the highest paid free agent in baseball history. 
Ryan, 32, who shares the m:tjor league record of four no-hit games with Sandy Kou­fax, and Richard struck out 546 batters for their teams last season. 
Ryan, a native Texan, said he is returning home to complete his final major league contract before retiring to his farm 26 miles south of here. 
"We have established our­selves as a first-rate club and we feel the addition of Ryan puts the Astros a step closer to that day when we will win the pennant," Astro General Ma­nager Tal Smith said. 
''I'm delighted to be in Hous­ton and the one thing I am interested in is helping bring a pennant to this city," Ryan said. 
Ryan, who has 2,909 career strikeouts, said signing an As­tros' contract fulfilled a child­hood dream. · 
"I've thought about this mo­ment many years and dreamed about it too, growing up in Alvin,'' Ryan said. 
Football 
MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL Los Angeles 20, Atlanta 14 

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.. two days prior / to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observtr office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday. 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 

Furnished 4-6 bedroom r1ouse for rent. afternoon, Sunday return. Will share! Now or next semester. Walking distance 3265. 
to campus. call 272-1729 after 5:00.
Notices 
Room for rent -near rides. $45.00 per Used Book shop. Open Wed.,-Sat.. Su. month. 233-1329. 
For Sale 

. 9·7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Rd. Niles. 683-2888 For Sale: American Airlines 50V2 disc.
Wanted
Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 277-0296. coupon. Call Pat 3868. 
Need ride to the Chicago area on Tues:·::~y

IMPROVE YOUR GRADES!® American & United Airlines 1h fare
Nov. 20th. Can leave after 4:00 p.m.

Send $1.00 for your 306-page catalog of coupon. Best offer-Call 288-8311 ext.107
Please call Tim at 232-7314.

collegiate research. 10,250 topics listed. -Ask for Carla, 288-6154 after 5 p.m.Box 25097G. Los Angeles, California, 
Need a ride to Wisconsin, Mad, Milw,

90025. (213)477-8226. For Sale: 1 pv. Spaulding Sideval Sks
Janesville, anywhere please. Call 3322/ 

with Salomen Racing Bindings. Good
7906

St. louis Club Ride line: Drivers and condjtion. $125 or best offer. Call Riders call 7374 for arrangements. Dues Need ride to Dayton area for Thanksgiv-277-399.7 before 9:00am Jim. s~ould be paid as soon as possible. ing. Will share expenses. I'll leave when
1 

you're ready. Call Mike 8879 For Sale-one season basketball ticket. Alterations for men and womens cloth-padded seat-best offer 234-1860 ing. Call 255-6275. Beach Lovers! Part time student sales 
representative position available for 1978 Mustang 4-speed V-8. Show car Spring semester. Job involves promoting that's loaded. 289-8391 after 5 high quality sun trips on campus for commission and tree travel. Call or write ;2 American & 1 United V2 price coupons.
Lost&Found 

for an application. Summit Travel, Inc. $25 or best offer. 288-1866 night. Parkade Plaza. Suite 11' Columbia, Lost: Sr-56 Texas Instruments calculator. Missouri 65201 (800)325-0439. American Airlines V2 fare coupon -$25 ­
Last used in the Physics lecture call Xavier 8676 Need ride to Cleveland for Thanksgiving.
Room#118 N.S.H. If you have found it, 

please call 6824-Reward. Please call Bob#3324 1970 ford country Squire wagon, 60,000 miles. New tires. Call ~33-9074. Lost': I lost a black "Le Jour" watch at 
Need ride to Twin Cities for Thanksgiv-Rockne Mem. If found please call me. ing. $ Mark 8341 American Airline Y2 fare coupon best Paul 1402 
offer. Call Paul 3402 Rides for two to O'Hare on Wednesday Lost: 3 color slides -probably near the after class. Need to be there by 3:00p.m. Student basketball season ticket for sale. Huddle. Call 6865. 
Call Rob 8333. Padded seat in Senior section. Best offer 8932. 
Need ride to Des Moines, Iowa or vicinitySilver, metal framed glasses. Bob-6718 
Wednesday, Nov. 21. Call Rick 7695. Will share driving and expenses.
Lost: Silver Rolex wristwatch at Stepan BB courts on 10/29 Reward. Please call 
Need ride to D.C. area over break. WillChris 1852. 
share expenses. Call Tom 8938 Lost: Texas instruments Sr5HI calcula-
Need ride from Terre Haute, ln. to N.D.
tor in Eng. Bldg. Reward. Call (7374) 
Sunday after T-giving. Phil 1842 Lost: N.D. Class Ring, 1981, initials 
Need ride to and from Detroit for
KMA. Reward call Dave 8432. 
Thanksgiving. Will share expenses. Call Jim-8453
Lost: White knit wrap-around sweater purchased during senior class trip in 
Need riders east on the PA turnpike-can
Acapulco. Last seen hanging on the take people to Pittsburgh or 0 mi fromhooks by South Dining Hall's right side. 

For Sale: 1969 VW Fastback needs work, $450 as Is. Call 277-5286 
Tickets 

Tickets Wanted -One book of student season basketball tickets, or as many single tickets as possible. Call Don 8762. 
Personals 
Philly -will leave Tuesday night or
Yours is still there if you picked mine up Carole McCollester.
Wednesday at noon-call Tom after 11:00

by mistake. Please call Cindy, 7993, after Do you realize we met because of
at 1189.
midnight. Athletic support? Coach
Need ride to S.W. suburb of Chicago for Thanksgiving. Tim 8636. 

Athletic Supporters, It has been a great year. I would
For Rent 
Paying $10 men's, $5 women's for class 

especially like to thank those who played:
rings. Any condition. Will arrange 

Pat, who led the team in points. Jim, who
pick-up. Phone toll-free 1-800-835-2246 

was a terror on defense, Jeff, whose
Room for rent $67/mo. &utilities. Call anytime. 

clutch ball handling saved the first game,
6171 or 289-8295. 

~=~olt~~0%ho did a good job of looking
Need ride for 2 to Detroit area Wed. 

who led our team in scorinii the ftrst game, and Barb who scored the winning point. coach 
Observerites ­
Happy Thanksgiving! Love. Mom 

CONGRATULATIONS "DOCTOR" MARK PATTRIDGE. 
Today is John Tom's Birthday; Watch John as he: 1) gets thrown into the Lake, 
2) gets chained to Lewis Hall naked, 3) passes out at Gooses, 4) passes out at Nickle's, 5) passes out at Corby's, 6) passes out at his room. 
.Any SMC or NO women wishing to "'take advantage" of his situation call 8862 or drop by at ST. EDS #408. 
Pajd for by "The Let's ge: John Tomp expelled Committee". 
Evelyn-Now that you know where Goose's Is we're going to have to get you inside of it. Dan 
Seats are still available on the New Jersey bus for Christmas break. Call Bart at 6970 
What is Campus/New York?!?! 
CAMPUS Kennetly'80 Headquarters Is In room 35 Sorin Hall. Stop by and visit or call Paul at 8451 
Who concert ticket holders! N.D. who party information: Call Lou 1167 
Campus/New York is coming!!! 
To Nick from Florida, Thank you too. Molly 
"Sarah Smile"­I'm glad you're happyt Afriend 
Attention! ! 
T.J Conley turned "19" last Friday. Call 3365 to wish him a Happy Belated Birthday. Wait till next year you "outdoorsy guy" t 
To all Merci Beaucoup . May God be with you. Zig Ziglar 
' 
To all Observerites and affilieated per­sons-Happy Thanksgiving! Rosemary 
Dan Pace Happy Birthday. Love Mom, Dad. Tom. Mary,&Kathleen 
Today is Dan Pace·s 18th Birthday. Call him at 1688 adn wish him a happy birthday! 
BILL POLLOCK WANTED APERSONAL 
Observer Typists. Have a happy Thanksgiving break! Trish 
Happy 21st Birthday Susa! Glad you finally made it. Hope you have a SUPER 

Dan Pace, Happy Birthday Tony and Sue 
Have you lost your bird. I am, pleased to announce the formation of the Ryan "no doz" Ver Berkmoes bird rescue service. Whether he's in you hair or in a chandelier, call me at J079 day or night for prompt courteous service. 
P.S. I specialize in formal occasions. 
P.P.S. Mary. I'll cut you in on ten percent of the action. 
Randee K., You're the best and you know it... forever special. Stay beautiful! . M1 
Happy 18th Shannon! Have agood day. and watch out tonight I 
To Mete from Minn~ 
Thanks. for wal~ing ack on Thurs. It's good to know tti re people like you around! 
XXO<J Katt i 
day! Welcome to the adult doggy-dog world! Love, Katie 
Watch for Campus /New York! 
Uear Denise: 
Have a super birthday. We'll be thinking of you on the big day! Don't worry about losing out on all the celebration. We'll be doing some intense partying after break! 
Love. 
Colleen. Nina,Bestsy,Juppy,&Susan 
Huey, like thanks for a great time' Love, your bride Louise 
Happy 18th birthday, Karen Kall t We love you! Love, Us 
.
eve-
Have a happy Thanksgiving! I'll be thinking of you! Love Me 

-------------~ 

Tuesday, November 20, 1979 -page 12
SRorts 

Conference titles, bowl bids on line with Thanksgiving weekend 




In Tokyo 

Irish, Hurricanes to battle 
by Michael Ortman Sports Wn"ter 
O.K., let's get all the bowl jokes out of the system. "Hey, I hear Notre Dame's playing in the Salad Bowl." 
"It's the Irish against Disco Tech in the first annual Cereal Bowl." 
So after this weekend's game against Miami, the Notre Dame football players will be finished for the season. No lonely, dreary practices through De­cember. No spending Christ­mas in South Bend. This year they can go through exams and the holidays like normal stu­dc:""nts. 
But the Irish still have their bowl game. 
"I doubt we would have gone to a bowl game had we won today," said Dan Devine after Saturday's loss to Clemson. "Win or lose today, we had our bowl game anyway." 
Yes folks, it's Mirage Bowl III. To Americans, it's just another game between two teams that are looking to next year. But to the host Japanese, this game is 
7\flll1h­
'1q~ 
~~0 
><' .,? '1" 
t1J~ 
probably the biggest sporting 
event of the year. 
"We've been looking forward to this week ever since the plans were announced last De­cember," said Devine. "It's a tremendous opportunity for both teams -. and from what we've seen, the Japanese have built up the Mirage Bowl to equal any of the post-season bowls here in the United States in terms of promotion, press coverage and general hoopla.'' 
Tokyo's 86,000-seat Olympic Memorial Stadium has been sold out for months for the game, slated for a 1:00 p.m. kick-off Sunday afternoon J a­pan time (11:00 f.m. Saturday, ES1) which wil be broadcast world-wide by the Notre Dame ­Mutual Radio Network. 
"We will bounce back and play hard," swears Devine. "I can assure the Mirage Bowl and the people of Japan that they will not be disappointed in selecting Notre Dame. Playing in Japan will be super, but we're not going to forget that we have a football game to win." 
Notre Dame, now 6-4 on the year (the most losses since 1963 when the Irish finished 2-7 under interim coach Hugh De­vore), will be going against the inexperienced Hurricanes whose 4. 5 mark includes a 26·10 thrashing of then na­tionally-ranked Penn State and last week's 30-0 drubbing at the hands of top-ranked Alabama. 
\1iami's two-deep features just two seniors among the top 44 players and 13 freshmen and sophomores in starting posi­tions. "Despite the fact Miami is playing so many young people, their victory at Penn State proved they have a very capable football · team,'' said Devine. "At this point in the season, those freshmen and sophomores have the ex­perience of sophomores and JUniors, and obviously that paid dividends in the Penn State game.'' 

The Notre Dame offense, which continues to rack up big numbers every flace but on the scoreboard, wil have to pene­trate a tough Hurricane pass defense which has yielded just three touchdowns through the air all season. Although the Irish outgained Clemson 387 to 280 overall, and 219 to 39 in the passing department, the 16-10 score told a different story. 
Rusty Lisch has pass('d for at least 200 yards in five of his last six games and a 240-yard passing day against Miami would make him oqly the fourth quarterback in Notre Dame history to pass for 2,000 yards in a sm~le season. 
Miami s offense has been sporadic throughout the year as the Hurricanes continue to plan for the future. Both freshman Jim Kelly and sophomore Mike 
[continued on page 10] 
Overtime field goal lifts Morrissey 
defense throughout the contest
by Mike Previte 
with each team being allowed
Sports Wn'ter 
no closer than their opponents 
It was what every kicker 25dard line. With the score dreams of. The chance to win it tie 0-0 at the end of regulation all. Tom Bosche made that play, Dillon won the coin toss dream come true as he boomed and elected to take the ball a 36-yard field goal in overtime first. Under lnterhall OT for­to give Morrissey a 3-0 victory mat, each ream gets a crack at over Dillon to capture the 1979 scoring from the 10-yard line. interhall football championship. The first team to score without 
Both clubs had played stingy a reprisal from the opposition 
.. 
0' 
Kickofffor Sunday's Mirage Bowl in Tokyo will be at 11:00 
p.m. Saturday, EST. 
takes the 'sudden victory.' 

Morrissey's defensive line, led by senior tackle Joe LaVigne stiffened as Dillon's offense lost 12 yards on three running plays. This forced the Big Red's Dana Crowley to try a 39-yard field goal which fell short and wide to the left. 
Dillon's defense also rose to the occasion in the trenches, (t-on/mued on page II] 
Mark Perry 
Beth Huffman
Paul Mullaney
Sports Editor 
Women's Sports Editor
Asst. Sports Editor 1 
94-38..712 
87-45, .659 
91-41' .689 
Arizona  Arizona State  
at Arizona State  by 10  
Southern Methodist  Arkansas  
at Arkansas  by6  
Clemson  Clemson  
at South Carolina  by3  
North Carolina  North Carolina  
at Duke  by 10  
Florida State  Florida State  
at Florida  by21  
Texas Tech  Houston  
at Houston  by9  
Missouri  Missouri  
at Kansas  by 14  
Tennessee  Tennessee  
at Kentucky  by 2  
Louisiana State  Tulane  
at Tulane  by 3  
Nebraska  Nebraska  
at Oklahoma  by4  
Pittsburgh  Pittsburgh  
at Penn State  by2  
Southern Cal  Southern Cal  
vs. UCLA  .by 20  
Miami  Notre Dame  
vs. Notre Dame  by17  

Arizona State by2 
Arkansas by 13 
Clemson by3 
North Carolina by6 
Florida State by 19 
Houston by 5 
Missouri by10 
Tennessee by 20 
Louisiana State by4 
Oklahoma by 10 
Pittsburgh by7 
Southern Cal by17 
Notre Dame by 13 
Arizona by6 
Arkansas by7 
Clemson by8 
North Carolina by3 
Florida State by 12 
Houston by9 
Missouri by 14 
Tennessee by 12 
Tulane by3 
Oklahoma by 1 
Penn State by 12 
Southern Cal by14 
Notre Dame by7 

Frank lJIGrotta 
Craig Chval 
Brian Beglane 

Sports Writer 
Sports Writer 
Sports Writer 

92-40, .697 
94-38, .712 
92-40, .697 

Arizona State by3 
Arkansas by 15 
South Carolina by3 
Duke by 2 
Florida State by 16 
Houston by 7 
Missouri by 13 
Tennessee by6 
Louisiana State by 10 
Oklahoma by 2 
Penn State by 1 
UCLA by6 
Notre Dame by 1 
Arizona by7 
Arkansas by 11 
South Carol ina by3 
North Carolina by 12 
Florida State by27 
Houston by4 
Missouri by13 
Tennessee by8 
Tulane by2 
Nebraska by5 
Pittsburgh by6 
Southern Cal by 15 
Notre Dame by 10 
Arizona State by9 
Arkansas by 12 
Clemson by7 
North Carol ina by6 
Florida State by 14 
Houston by8 
Missouri by14 
Tennessee by9 
Louisiana State by 12 
Nebraska by3 
Penn State by7 
Southern Cal by5 
Notre Dame by7 
Michael Ortman Paul Stauder Sports Writer 
WSND Sports Director 90-42, .682 
92-40, .697 
Arizona State 
Arizona State by7 
by7 
Arkansas 
Arkansas by 12 
by 15 
South Carolina by6 
South Carolina 
by 1 
North Carolina by3 
North Carolina 
by 14 
Florida State by 24 
Florida State 
by11 
Houston by9 
Houston 
by8 
Missouri 
Missouri by4 by5 
Kentucky Tennessee by 2 by 17 
Louisiana State Tulane by 1 by 2 
Oklahoma Nebraska by2 by7 
Pittsburgh Pittsburgh by6 by~ 
Southern Cal Southern-Cal by 12 by 20 
Notre Dame Notre Dame by 19 by 14 

,I 





