, , , Record reviews -page 6 

Soviet troops 
in Cuba 
slow SALT 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The 
Senate Foreign Relations Com­
mittee said yesterday the SALT 
II treaty will not be ratified ~s 
long as Russian troops remain 
in Cuba. 
''There is no likelihood what­
ever the Senate would ratify the 
SALT treaty as long as Russian 
combat troops remain stationed 
in Cuba,'' said Sen. Frank 
Church after a day of closed­
door briefings with Secretary of 
State Cyrus Vance and CIA 
Director Stansfield Turner. 
Earlier, Vance told a news 
conference that the administra­
tion ''will not be satisfied with 
maintenance of the status quo'' 
in Cuba, where the administra­
tion estimates there now are 
about 3,000 Soviet troops. 
In a carefully worde-d state­
ment, Vance did not rule out 
the possibility that the SALT II 
treaty would be held hostage 
unless the combat capability of 
the Soviet troops in Cuba is 
eliminated. 
He said he has asked Soviet 
ambassador Anatoly Dobrynin 
to return as soon as possible 
from home leave for "serious" 
rliscussions on the subject. 
Before the session with Vance, Church stressed his oppostion to linki~g rat~cation of the l'act to Sovtet acttons on other Issues. But, he said, ''This particular action comes . so close to home that unless the matter is corrected in a manner that is acceptable to the United 
[continued on page 2] Indian Summer has its advantages --its much more pleasant to study outside than in the dull confines ofone's room. [photo by john Macor] 

Three issues resolved 
Sadat, Begin reach agreetnents 
HAlFA, Israel (AP) -Anwar Sadat and Menachem Begin differed over the future of Jerusalem and .reported no progress on the Palestinian question, but they reached agreement in summit talks yesterday on three immediate Issues -Mount Sinai, peace­keeping patrols and oil. 

WNDU expands,' builds new station 
by .Ann Hesburgh 
In order ~o allevi~te the p~~blem of inadequate space, caused by cxpandmg radto, telev1~1on and tele-communication pro­gr;.ms, W'!"lDl.! plans. to budd a new broadcast facility. The overcrowdmg Is the stmple result of 25 years of technologicaladvancement of WNDU. 
~entativt; . plans _for the construction of the complete radto/televiston station have been made for next spring with occupancy of. the building ho.r.efully beginning by Janu~ of 1980, accordmg to Mr. Bazd O'Hagan, vice-president and general manager of WNDU. . 
Mathews-P_urucker-Anella,_ ~nc.,_ the construction company chosen to budd the new facility, ts operated by three Notre Dame graduates. , 
"We are hapr,y to be able t? select a local firtrl for the job," commented 0 Hagan. He did nor comment on the projected -cost of the new station. 
The location ofWNDU's new station is the north-east corner of Dorr Road and U.S. Route 31. Dorr Road runs between Notre Dame's golf course and the ROTC Building on campus 
"T?is location will provide ready access to Notre Dame, s~. Mary s and Holy Cross students, and also the business community,'' said O'Hagan. Visibiltiy is an important factor when competing with other stations, commented Mr. Gregory Giczi, WNDU's promotion manager. 
The reason WNDU is building a new station instead of.---. expanding the original o!le is. bec:;tuse this location will provide the South Bend commumty wtth dtrect access to the station from 
u.s. 31. 
The Egyptian president and Israeli prime minister, ending two days of meetings, an­nounced agreements '' in prin­cil'le" on an early Israeli evacu­atton of the area of the biblical Mount Sinai and on the quan­tity of Sinai oil Egypt will sell Israel once it relinquishes the Suez Gulf wells. 
They also worked out a tem­porary arrangement for Egyp­tian-Israeli supervision of Is­rael's return of the Sinai Penin­sula to Egypt and inspection of forces, which under the terms of the two countries' peace treaty were to have been the tasks of the U.N. Emergency Force stationed in the Smai. The Soviet Union had used its veto power in the U.N. Security Council to force a pull-out of the U.N.troops. 
Sadat had tough words for the Soviet Union, saying '' A Soviet veto will never stop or end the 

peace process.  On  the  con­ 
trary,  it  will  give  it  ·more  
momentum.''  

Sadat, who arrived Tuesday on his third visit to Israel, later went on a driving tour of this Meditteranean port city, stop­ping his car on a main street to shake hands with well-wishers, Buoyed by the crowds, he walked down the roa:d for several minutes, greeting sur­prised Israelis before driving on. , 
Sad at and his wife, ) ihan, alsd toured an electromcs factofY before attending a state dinr1,er last night. He was to fly home today. 
TheJerusalem question, a key issue in the Alexandria summit in ] une, still stymied the two leaders. 
Sadat said Arab-populated East Jerusalem, occupied by Israel since the 1967 Mideast War, should be included in the autonomous Palestinian region being negotiated for the West Bank of the ] ordan River and the Gaza Strip. "When we talk about autonomy for the West Bank, for sure we are talking about East Jerusalem," he said. . 
But he added, "We need more time, more careful study for the whole thing. It is quite natural.'' 
'']erusalem is the capital of Israel," Be~in stressed. "It is indivisible.' 
The two Sadat-Begin meetings Tuesday and yesterday made no announced progress on the slow-moving autonomy talks among lower-level officials of Egypt, Israel and the United States. 
But Sadat sounded confident that most, if not all, out­standing problems would be cleared away by the end of 1979 and that other Arab states would end their boycott of the Egyptian-Israeli peace talks. 
Asked whether he exl'ected more Arab states to jom ·the talks, Sadat replied, " Yes, I anticiJ?ate by the end of this year, mshallah. (God willing)." 
Begin and Sadat also an­nounced they would meet again in Egypt, setting the time and date later through their direct Cairo-] erusalem telel'hone link. Meanwhile, they satd, the appropriate Cabinet ministers will discuss the details of the three agreements reached in the Haifa summit. 
Dorm space 
• 
remams open 
to students 
by Don Schmzd StaffReporter 
Fifteen residence spaces for Notre Dame men remain un­filled because of the Housing Office's difficulty in contacting students on the waiting lis~ 'for on-campus housing. 
Edmund Price, director of student housing, said yesterday the housing office has been trying to contact students on the waiting list since the week before classes. 
''It is a very time-consuming process. We have to go through the list, one by one, to see if these students want a residence on campus. In some cases, the phone numbers are obsolete or the addresses are 
,incorrect," Price said. 
"We like to get these spaces filled as quickly as possible, but we've got to give the students on the waiting list a fair shot at getting on campus if they wish,'' he added. 
The openings on campus 
were created by no-shows, ac­
cording to Price. 
Price said the problem of 
contacting students on the wait­
ing list, primarily sophomores 
~nd juniors, was not unusual. 
The housing office is now requestin~ that students on the watting ltst contact the office and state whether they want a campus residence. If the ftfteen spaces_ are not filled by people on the waiting list by Monday, the office wm open the spaces to any off-campus male student. The spaces will then be distributed on a ''ftrst come, ftrst served basis," ac­.cording to Price._ 
'I expect that all flfteen 
spaces will be filled by 
Monday with people from the waitin,g list 
"I expect that all 15 spaces will be ftlled by Monday with people from the waiting list,'' Price stated. 
There are also ''two or three spaces" in women's residence dorms that have not been filled. 
Price said that he expects these spaces to be taken by students on the women's waiting list through the normal procedure soon. 
Some of last year's over­crowding conditions have been eliminated because of no­shows. The housing office is not using the basements of Walsh or Breen-Phillips to ac­commodate students. Price stated, however, that the area referred to as the 'Farley Motel' will be used again this year. 

1 1 
1 
1 
.. 
, wrrrt n a,· a v w r•·,. ­
c:r..... , ...... lldWitr1 h 


The Observer 

-

SMC clubhouse receives r-;--;--!Q~!:~i~LJ!~!~ 

mtertor, 
by Pam Deg·n-an Senior StaffReporter 
Extensive interior and exterior renovations on the Saint Mary's clubhouse will be completed within two months, according to Mary Laverty, director of stu­dent activities, yesterday. "Once completed, th~ club­house may be reserved by members of the Saint Mary's community for their own pri­vate social gatherings," said Laverty. 
Renovations include stripping and replacing the"floors, install­ing exhaust fans and painting the entire building. According to Frank Springer, director of maintenance, renovation of the clubhouse has begun but con­tractors have yet to bid on re­doing the floors. "We are still in the process of pur~hasing 
[continued from page 10) 
approved by the University'' as fit for habitation. 
Luther said that his office will remain in close coP-tact with citizen groups in the area, primarily the Northeast Neigh­borhood Center, to improve relations and to respond to any complaints concerning stu­dents. The University will also stay abreast of any South Bend Police reports concerning crime 

exterior makeover! OBUO• THE STUDENT SERVICE 
most of the materials but the 
renovations should be com­
ple~ed within six weeks,'' said 
Spnnger. 
In reserving the clubhouse, the college requires from all persons holding social functions a thirty dollar refundable damage deposit. In case of a student violation, the charge will be added to the student account. 

Students who reserve the club­hQuse for an activity attended only by 21-year-olds may re­quest permission to serve alco­hol from the Director of Student Activities. By Indiana law, the students signmg the reservatio­agreement form are responsible for any person who becomes intoxicated and is subsequently harmed or injured. · 
''The purpose of the club­house is to provide an ~port­unity for students to hoL ::;~:~!! 
... Luther : 'Stop th€ WORlO, :­
in the area, and cooperate with them in any way possible to increase student safety. 

: 1 Want to qa Off!' : 
·~======================================================~·
•
:
Erratum •
• 
Anyonewishingtoperformat:
the Nazz should contact Mary • Ahern at 4763 or 775 7, not at • the number given in • private parties; therefore only 
50 people wi~l be allow~d t,~ attend a functton at one ttme, said Laverty. 
In previous years, the club­house has been the site of re,Peated destruction. Broken wmdow and battered furniture have been a characteristic of mafly of the pa:rties held in the past, stated Laverty. ­
"In order to insure public safety and mainta~n co_ntrol, Saint Mary's Secunty wtll be notified of all clubhouse func­tions," said Laverty. 


~ • AUDITIONS ~ • 
: l=oQ the Stubent ptayeQs pQoOuctton o~ : 
ORGANIZATION, WILL BE AT ACTIVITIES NIGHT ON mONDAY 
ALSO 
Q_6]J.,0_ phone se~NIC€ IS sack! 
I~------Q!~~-~:Jt~V=~--------1 
~----------------------------~ 
•
ton1qht, 7:30 pm, :
•
• 
noom 122, C"OWlC\./ hall 0--r mustc •
t< K '-'~ t-: • • 
yesterday's Observer. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
Notre Dame -St. Mary's campus wide 
'~~ 

~e<'-\'3>~\,-@Welcome Back Party 
~~-\S  e\i  
c,O~  Friday, Sept. 7, 1979 7: 30  -12: 30  off campus :  
I  

South Bend Union Train Station corner of Lafayette & South 

Live mu-sic, food, 100 kegs of beer 
Tim Hanlon,magician donation 54.00 -All proceeds go to the University .Scholarship Fund 
1 
Chartered buses will leave at 7 : 30 and every half hour after that, from the ND circle and ' SMC Leman's Hall 
College ID must be shown to enter 
t 
\ 


!, , ~ 
,r 
I, 
r r
,
,
,
, 
r 
~ 
r 
~ 
The Observer 
W€'R€ Back! th€ nazz PR€sents. • • 
WeOnesOay, 9/5 open sta<i€ thtmSbay 9/6 ]eann•e ~ttt€Q 9:3o-? ~tOay, 9/7 caRney '79 -to se Satuooay, 9/8 announc€0 ~lch PREZIOSO 8-9:30 Rtch Stevenson/Oan BeRenato 9:30 -? BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE PHONE 4763 NO CHARGE, STOP BY & HEAR SOME GREAT MUSIC! 

G:LGJ88 ami G!R&Imltii&BGR t&Jl'IJlDllt'lLIRa8 lrGB GODIJJ.I)11lBAYltGR8 ml 
~-~~88tGD.a~&OY~ 
•Y~»GII~ GAB_. :PJIGlSJI» 1JJP BOW 
in the Treasurer's Office second Floor Lafortune student center deadline for completion is fri. sept. 21 
Announcing the First Annuo.l 

RIVER CITY RECORDS 
Back to School-In Thru the Out Door-ffiidnlght ffiadness­Jl.OO OFF o.nd 2nd Anniversary So.ler 
Thfs Ftfdny, Snturdny nnd Sunday 'September 7,8, nnd 9th 

• 
WRBR Remotes 

• 
movie Passes 


• Checks cashed up to J20 over purchase amount 



RIVER CITY RECORDS 
•••••••••••••••••• SALE HOURS: Thutado._y 6:00-12:00(ND/SffiC) 
50970 U.S. 31 North  Ftido.y  10:00-ffildnight  
3 mllea north of campus-next to Al's Sup•rmatket  So.tutdo.y  10:00 ­ midnight  
277-4&242  Sunday  10:00 ­ ffiidnlght,  

. . ....................-.............."""......................................... "'.... ~ ... ............,.....·. 
-. ........ -..............................,,.... ~.,_ ............................,~,,...__,...... ~................. , ........ ,._........ , ..... , ....................~....._........ ~-~·· ••• .................. •• • • I "' t
·I \ l 1 
• 
Double Poly Sleeves with every LP. 

• 
Surprises 

• 
T-Shirt Prizes 


Thursday, September 6, 1979-pa,ge 4 
Holland assumes position as assistant· to President 
by Margie Bras.sil Saint Mary's News Editor 
Joan B. Holland has been appointed new assistant to President Duggan at Saint Mary's College. Her position, which she assumed on Au~. 1, involves a variety of duttes which she feels will "escalate with time." 
Part of her work involves preparation for Board of Re­gents meetings, co.-~r~inating commencement acuvmes and much of the day to day work which flows through the rres­ident's office. Holland wil also work as a liason with federa I agencies for ~rants and endow­ments, filtertng through much 

of the paperwork.  
According  to  Hollarid,  her  
work  at Saint Mary's  is  very  
challenging.  "Here it is  pos­ 

sible , to,be in touch with the whole ca:.npus," she explained, being impressed with the spirit on campus. "People are very willing to help. ' ' · 

Holland is originally from New Jersey, receivmg her bachelor of arts degree from the College 
'of Saint Elizabeth there. She has also received a master's degree in communication arts from Notre Dame and a certi­ficate of ad':'anced education specialization from Boston Col­lege. 
Before coming to Saint Mary's Holland served as program coordinator at the Notre Dame Center for Pastoral Liturgy. She has taught elementary and high school English and has worked as director of adult education at parishes in Mas­sachussetts and Virginia. 
Holland expressed the hope that she will get to know and work with students as well as faculty and administration, and added, "Right now I am just spending time learning who the other people are here at Saint Mary's." 
SMC board to accept 

applications 
The St. Mary's Judicial Board is accepting applications until Friday tor the following posi· t10ns: student relations board· community relations board; appellate board; and fiscal board. . A pplicationsmay be obtained 10 the student affairs office in LeMan Hall. For more inform" arion, call Martha Boyle at 4067. . 
WRBR 
sponsors 

.fund-raiser 
Creative Looks and radid 

s·tation WRBR will sponsor 
several fund-raising events this 
Saturday to support the Logan', 
Center Special Olympics. ' 
The events will start at 9 a.m.I Saturday at the 100 Center with1 a four-mile run -through thel streets of Mishawaka. Follow-\ ing the run, there will be! six-man volleyball, chess, and\' backgammon tournaments. There will be a nine dollar entry I fee for the volleyball tourna-I ment, and a two dollar fee for . both the chess and backgam­mon events. 
1 

Busses will leave the Notre ! Dame ACC at 8 a.m. and Holy f Cross Hall at Saint Mary's at~· 8:30a.m. 
To register for the ac;tivities, ; call 255-8522 or 255-2824. i 
========\ 
ARmANpO'S 
BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 

143 7 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend 277-0615 Sue, Ruthie, Kim Armando--stylist 
mon-wed-fri 8-5:30 · tues-thurs 8-8 pm sat 8-2 by o.ppt only so.t:_no o.ppt needed 

Editorials 
DOOIBSBUBI 
-b;Gfd'ftu~· 


What IS the Spiritual Commission? Mary Ryan 
''There is a variety ofgifts butalways the same Spin't; there are all sorts ofservice to be done, but alw_tZ_1s the same Lord; working in all sorts ofdifferent ways in dijjerent people, il is the same Go{!who· is working in all ofthem. Tlie particular way in which the Spin/ is given to each person is for a good pupose." 
1 Connthians 12:4-7 
When I give a gift to someone I love I'm happy when it is received with joy. Seeing mv ~ift used or displayt-d is exciting, espectallywhen, as the g1ver,I tried tochoose a gift to fit that special person. As a receiver I have at least wo routes. C.S. Lewis said somewhere that we don't like b~ing ¥,iven things because it immediately puts us at a 
'disadvantage". We feel that we owe the giver something and it is generally hard to handle perceivins ourselves as in debt. That is often the reason for the guilt-rtdden: ''Oh, but I didn't get YOU anything!!" that precedes many a thank you. The second route is no doubt one Lewis would/refer. If we receive a gift from someone we love honestly an securely we are overwhelmed by our friend's kindness and we are all the more thankful for her. We display or use the gift proudly for the love it represents. 
The la~ty are made to share in the priestly, prophetical and kingly office ofChrist; they have therefore, tn the Church and in the world, their own assignment in the mission of the whole People ofGod ... The Council earnestly exhorts the laity to take a more ac~'veart, each accordt"nB to his talents and knowledge and tn elity to the mind oj the Church, in the explanation and efense of Chn'stian pnnciples and tn the correct application ofthem to the problems ofour times. " 
Vatican II:D. .59 [Decree on theApostolate ofLay People] 
It seems to me that before I could apply a known to an unknown. I must first have a basic understanding of the known. It was always a relief to hear a classmate explain how she worked on a problem for hours uselessly when I say she 
., 
,
,
Thursday, September 6, 1979-pa,ge 5 
l ,~ 


Dating at ND/SMC 
Editor's Note: The following column is based on extensive research conducted last semes­ter by the authors andtwo other students, Tony Anzalone and Andy Schmidt. The research was part of a class project for Marketing 374. 
One of the most cofl\mon 
complaints -voiced at Notre 
Dame concerns the lack of 
dating opportunities.. It ~ay 
not be the most Important 
complaint at any one time, but 
it is one that is heard~ every 
year. 
For the purposes of our study, 
dating was defined as any 
prearranged heterosexual inter­
action, whether on a one to one 
basis or in a group. In this 
context, double-dating would 
constitute dating in a group. 
Picking up someone at Corby's 
was not considered a date. 
Our research focused on some 
of the reasons commonly given 
for the apparent lack of dating 
at Notre Dame. 
One of the most common 
complaints was that there are 
simply not enough social func­
tions on and off campus. 
Another major complaint con­
cerned the ratio of males to 
females. Since the ratio is 
approximately three to one, 
many males said they felt that 
most of the females probably 
already had dates. 
Our study was also concerned 
with possible causes that were 
not often voiced. One factor we 
considered was the presence of 
Saint Mary's females. Finally 
we attempted to determine the 
effect, if any of the type of high 
school a student attended, and 
whether or not the overall 
higher intelligence of females 
made males apprehensive 
about dating. 
The sample we used consisted 
of a proportion between males 
and females and classes, with 
females weightedmore heavily. 
All respondents were under­
graduates residing on campus. 
A questionnaire was distributed 
to those selected at random. 
The response r~te was a very 
Matt Cato & ]err_y Baker ,~ ~ 

high 93 -percent. ther.e are enou~h social func­l F'tft)'-four percent of the re­tions on campus, that one can 1
,

spondents expressed diSsatis­do while on a date. ,
faction with ihe frequency of Finally, from our conclusions 
,

their dating at Notre Dame. we dertved several recommen­
This percentage was large dations, aimed at two possible 
,

enough to conclude that there sources: ways in which the ' ,was a real problem. University could deal with the 
Our results produced a few problem of dating and what the 1
,

surprises and dispelled a few tndividual could do to alleviate 
1

myths. For instance, more the problem. 1
students who attended a Catho­First, steps should be taken by lic high school dated once a University officials to increase 1 month or more at Notre Dame the number of planned activi­1 
1

than those who attended a ties on campus. Other tunc­
1

public high school. The study tions should be provided that ,also found that only 15 percent will further the interaction be­,
of the males thought that tween the sexes. Dances and ,females were more intelligent snow parties are fine examples. ,overall, while even less thought · A relaxed atmosphere would 
1

the reverse. Since· 95 percent alleviate tensions involved 
of the males would <late a in the datin& process. 
female even if she were more Also, Umversity officials 
intelligent, we found no evi­should continue in their efforts 
dence that ND males avoid to increase the enrollment of 
dating females because of high­females until the ratio of males 
er intelligence. to females (including Saint 
Then there was the question of Mary's) is one to one. 

the girls' college across the The problems with dating are 
road. Our results showed that not to be solved by the Univer­

32 percent of the males date sity alone. Many pro9lemsmorefemales from Saint Mary's perceived by the students can than from Notre Dame, and 57 be solved individually. First, 
percent. have dated a female the male student should rid 

from Saint Mary's at least once£ himselfof the attitude that most 
Comparing this to 32 percent o females are unavailable. Most 
the males who date u1ore 

of the female students desire to females from Notre Dame, we go out more often than thery
concluded that the presence of are. Even mW:e
presentlySaint Mary's women decreases males (58 percent) find theirthe amount of dating between attempts at arrangmg dates toNotre Dame men and women. 
be successful. Therefore, mostWe looked at the complaint male students can have a date if expressed so often by ND 
they really try.
males, that ND women are The female student can alsounavailable. Forty-six percent increase the amount of herof the males said that the dating by asking a male out.
problem of most dates being Most female respondents werepreviously committed has a successful in their attempts tosignificant detrimental effect on arrange dates, excluding hallthe frequency of their dating. 

formals.
The next complaint we looked Finally, students should in­at dealt with the lack of social vestigate the opportunities that functions both on and off cam­exist for dating--opportunitiespus. Of those questioned, 48 such as movies, the Nazz andpercent felt there were enough picnics. The list is endless. 
planned activities to attend In conclusion, the readerwhile on a date, yet 70 percent should note that the solutionsfelt there were enough cliings to 
do off campus, and only 31 lie with both the individual and 
percent felt this way concerning the University~ Neither one can 
on campus. We concluded that solve the problem alone. 
students do not believe that Neither should have to. 

had only one basic mistake. The effort was there as was a logical mind to proceed correctly from one stage to another. ' Whether the confusion resulted from the teacher being unclear or the student's lack of attention is totally immaterial w~en the li~ht of clarificati?n shines ~rough a thinking mmd. The JOY of understanding somethmg you were never quite sure of is excellent. Especially if that something, even pefore it is understood, must daily be applied to countless situations and people. 
''The liberal arts are most liberal, most liberating when they rest on complete rather than on partial truth. " Sr. M. Made/eva, C.S. C. 
''St. Mary's recognizes the need to redefine the structure. of the Catholic college in these times of great cultural change ... Thus St. Mary's seeks to provide a living environment where religious values are tak.en sen'ously, where nch and diversified liturgtcal expresstons ofreligious faith joins with cn'tical probtng of contemporary lzfe from a Christian vantage point. '' 
Bullett'n ofSt. Mary's College 
Observer 
Editorial 
Policy• I 
The Observer welcomes com­ments from its readers. All letters must be typed, double spaced,the name, address and stgnatUI e of the author must be included. The Observer re­serves the right to edit all material for grammar, length, and libelous statements. 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board 

The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor· in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Features Editor ....... K. Connelly represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor .......... Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Ed ror ...... M. Onufrak 
_The Observer_ 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive New~ ~ditor ....Mtke Lewts Business Manager ..... Steve Odland newspaper published by students of able to all members of the community. News Editor ............ Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan the Umversity of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News Editor .......... .Mike Shields Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is Saint Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ......Bob Rud\ necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Sporrs Editor ...........Mark Perry Controller ..........Kevin Manion 
I. 


_____,......----~-~-~ 

~---~~ ~~---~-­
~---~--~---~ 

, r
, ,r 
r 
r
,
,
, 
r 
r r r 
r
,
, 
~ 

when his notebook was stolen. He re-wrote it from memory, but some­how I think his memory might have failed him. CANDY-0 is not what was to be expected from the band that overtook the nation with THE CARS. lt isn't the kind of album you can rave about such as their ftrst release. It's just another album by what seems to be becoming just another group in the crowd. The promise that earned them the title of Best New Group in '78 was broken: CANDY-0 isn't even okay. 
I had really been anxious for this album to come out. Now I wish they would have waited longer and came up with something better. While THE CARS offered excitement, CANDY-0 gets on your nerves. Songs like "Double Life" can almost make you 

THE KNACK: GET lliE KNACK 
Yes, the back cover photo does look like the one on The Beatie's A Hard Day's Night. Yes, they do use the old black Capitol label that hasn't been used for years; and yes, there has been an awful lot ofhype behind this album. 
But then this, their ftrst album did become Number 1 within seven weeks of release. Add to that the fact that Get The Knack was the fastest release-to-gold debut album by a rock band on Ca~;>itol Records since Meet The Beatles tn 1964. But all of this is meaningless because in the end ,only one thing matters; The Knack stands on its own. 
This is state-of-the-art power pop minus the sweetie-pie lyrics common to most power pop. The Knack comes out and tells it like it is, almost spelling it out at times. Raw but reftned, in 
both  lyrics  and  sound,  The  Knack  
voices  those  "amongst  the  guys"  
conversations  heard  in  one's  

adolescent days at the Burger Shack. Remember the high school tease, the one who left a trail of broken hearts and sent you home from a date with the Tribune? "She said she'd make your motor run, now ya know she never give ya none, its just me, me, me, she's so selftsh." (A curious but distinct "I think I know this girl" is heard in the background.) The theme of the sex-on-the-brains high school kid is prevalent on tunes ~uch as "Selfish", "Maybe Tonight" (how blatant can you get) and the soon to be immortal "Good Girls Don'r." 1be latter is so stereotypically graphic it's' almost absurd. 
But the Knack is not just a bunch of heartless hornies, as is proved by such runes as Buddy Holly's "Heartbeat" and "Your Number Or Your Name". On "Number" the group seems to show their J eckJe side, sinfing of the youthful pinings for the flr you's see aU the time but wonder if she knew you existed. This is the secret of The Knack's mushroom of success: Simple, tight lyrics that one doesn't need to analyze for days accompanied by bright, peppy mustc. The album may be aimed at the under 20 crowd but thanks to the wit, the music can be enjoyed by all. 
What will hap~n to this band "post -Get The K1111el ' is hacd to say. None of the members are virtuoso musicians, but then Ringo was no Keith Moon and Paul's early bass riffs came straight out of the "How to Play Bass" book. This may be the start of something big if you consider that The Beatles started out holding your hand and ended up dropping acid in strawberry fields. It s just possible that the 80's may usher in a new era, that of Knackmania. 

~:================ three dollars on was able to enjoy the . TilE CARS: CANDY-0 likes of Bob Seeger, REO, Alice Cooper and countless others. But the big event was always the night when 
So here it finally is, the album that The Monsters ofthe Marshals, Ted Ric Ocasek had almost totally written Nugent and The Amboy Dukes, came 
THE CARS CANDY-0 

' agree with your parents about "that Boom Boom garbage." It's terribly boring and lifeless. "Shoo-Be-Doo" on the other hand sounds as if they brought in Devo to do session work. It ends though with a great segue into "Candy-0, "one of the better cuts on· the album. But again, as on "Double Life,'' you get the feeling that the drums are playing lead. 
As a matter offact, almost the whole album sounds that way. It's the same beat over and over, speeded up here and slowed down there. "You Can't Hold On Too Long" is meaningful in its own way, but musically it sounds like "Double Life." 
Unlike THE CARS with its wide variations, CANDY-0 staggers from 
one song into the other without really affecting you. It just plays in the background, something you could do integral calculus to wtthout being bothered, On the whole, only "Got A Lot On My Head" and their single "Let's Go" really stand out from the monotony. ~ What separates these tunes is that the music adds to what Ocasek is tryin~ to say without detracting from tt. In short, it's fltting. ~ 
Maybe it was expecting too much for CANDY-0 to be equal to or even close to THE CARS. Tim CARS was a one of a kind album, possibly a fluke hit out of nowhere. Since that flash of inspiration, the group seems to have lost the magic, lost the touch, lost the musical entrepreneurial genius. On CANDY-0 the Cars have created an Edsel. 

===============us who did, "State Of Shock" is a 
1ED NUGENT: SfATE OFSHOCK 
On the hot Siunmer nights of my youth I remember bein~ able to go to the Local park district s rink-tUrned­concert hall for a weekly event called The Wil Goose. For a paltry two or to town. It was guaranteed that you would emerge from the show frenzied, frantic, and full of heavy metal gurel Detroit style served up as only Ted knew how. 
But years went by and the groups changed and so did Ted, almost vanishing for a few years along with The Goose. It wasn't long though, for Nugent came back, minus the Dukes, to put out a few platters to serve to the starving rockers he had nurtured for years. For some reason though, the portions begain to get smaller and smaller. Such is the case with State of Shock. 
State of Shock is not a bad album, it's just not as rowdy as the Ted we're used to. Could he be mdlowing out? After all he's been blasting out walls since the late 60's when he was a mere teen. Or is he just trying to widen his audience? Having seen him this summer I would have to count the ftrst one out; he's still as Gonzo as ever. The second option is a deftnite possibility, though, since Nugent has never been able to repeat the top hit status of ''Journey To The Center Of The Mind" way back when. 
So what we end up with is a Nugent album that has not nearly as much ener~y as his. previous works and a studto treatment more suitable to neil Young. Where's the feedback we loved so well? Come on Ted, a cover version of a George Harrison song? And sure we know_you had a divorce, 


slight disappointment. Ted, you made it on the Detroit-Cleveland-Chicago circuit. Forget the mellow west and the stuffy east and come back to your gonzo ids. Let it loose on the next on so we'll have something to go crazy to. 
but did you have to spell it out in "Alone?" Let's have some more groupie stories. 
There are a few good party-hardy gut rir,pers on the album. ''Para­lr.zed, 'with its primal scream, is more like what we expect from Nugent. But when it comes down to it, "Snake Charmer," "Saddle Sore," and "It Doesn't Matter" are the only true Sweaty Teddy rockers. And then even these tracks were toned down ineptly on the mixing board. 
Whether, a lot ofpeople will admit it or not, Nugent is a quite excellent guitarist. Umorrunately you can't sell him to the Springsteen crowd, so why try. It's like you almost had to gr:ow up in the midwest, especially in a factory town, to enjoy this stuff. For those of 




The Observer Thursday, September 6, 1979 ~page 7 
Jf Toda_y I Hear Your Voice ....  
B_v Bob Bernoskie  
It was shortly after 10 on a clear evening back in the fall of '77 when I first saw the Notre Dame campus. The night has a way of promoting certain qualities in a place that just aren't noticeable during the day. The dome, dorms, the grotto and lakes, for better or worse, played a game of enchant­ment on new eyes. I was impressed. I was also very · frightened because I didn't know what I was getting into. I only knew that I would be inhabiting the premises of Moreau Seminary as one of the "candidates" for the Congregation of Holy Cross. You see, I have had the nag~ing notion of wanting to become a pnest; an inescapable feeling that somehow our Lord wanted to get his hands on me and use me for his own purposes. What those complete purposes are, I know no more about today than I had known at the time. My navigations thus far have been due to just earnest reflection on th~t s~all sran of road before me whtch ts al our Lord reveals. I feel the inclination ·to proceed but don't know where the road will lead._ In my prayer I have mentioned on several occasions that this piecemeal procedure is rather unsettling. If officialdom in Washington thinks shuffling is ruffling, let them try listening to our Lord. I am the type of person who likes to have things lucidly mapped out before me. But I didn't know what to anticipate next, if indeed anything was or can be anticipated with our Lord. So with definite uncertainty I came to the seminary on the banks of the St. Joe lake. The candidate year at Moreau accepts persons with a BA who are ~nterf'sted in joining Holy Cross. This 1s a come-get-your-feet-wet experience; an exposure to ministerial and community life, and a chance to take a closer look at the congregation, and for the congregation to take a closer look at you. Primarily, this is a year and atmosphere in which one can explore further the direction in which our Lord is pointing. For myself the candidate year had been good. I had gotten my feet wet, and the option to move further into the religious waters lay before me. Succeeding the candidate year is the novitiate year. At this point nothing could have been more emgmatic to me than the novitiate. Here and there at the seminary I would catch a reference to the novitiate, and I had even spoken to those who were fresh veterans from its fields. yet it was still ruzzling. In the faJI of '78 unti early this August, several other young men and myself made our novitiate year and have returned to campus for three years to fulfill our theology require­ments. My puzzlement over what a novitiate year is aU about has some­what decreased, yet I find it difficult to define what a novitiate year actually is, or more likely, to explain the impossibility of defining a novitiate year. Promenading on water would be ,easier because .no single, all­. encompassing definition is available, ootis it likdy to be. This is the nature of the animal. Our Lord calls· each of us in some of the most unusual and unexpected ways, that it would be an encroachment on his territory were anyone to say that our Lord is working through this and that channel alone. I will therefore stay away from any specifics and say that in its broadest sense, the novttiate year is like a weekend retreat -only compounded in length and depth. It had been for me, a time set apart, to listen to what our Lord was saying in and by my life. I think articles 102 and 103 in the Constitutions of the Congre~ation give a clear insight into the dlCection, of formation an<i this aspect of it. The articles read: "The purpose of the formation program is to assist each  petty badinage to meat and potatoes. one to become a convinced Christian martyrdom of some obscure virgin. I I was ripe for our Lord at that timeand a generous religious, a mature and still would have pushed them except and _the thmg was he knew it. He knew educated person, and a competent for the fact that one day they my hopes, my longings, my strong and apostle. The program is organized in a mysteriously disappeared, crock pot not-so-strong qualities and I wasn'tway that permits the candidate to and all. desappointed with his interventions.assume hts responsibility for his Also during the year we visited and In realizing how much our Lord lovedformation and, at the same time, worked in various apostolates of Holy me and gave me the opportunity to seeallows him and the community to Cross along the East coast. This was this, there was nothing else for me tojudge the realiry of his vocation and great because it acquainted us with the do except to give in. I wouldn't go soaptttude for life in Holy Cross. . . The larger Holy Cross community and its far as to say that my love for our Lordcandidate seeks to appreciate more many ministries~ is so totally free that our relationshipfully God's will in his regard, and to Apart from the study, apostolates, could mirror the one Olivia Newtonbecome more open to grace and more travel, work, and socializing, there John sings about in Totally Hnt baby,closely united to Christ. He learns to was a stillness at the place which I baby, baby, ... but ..."'I can only try. know himself better so as to remedy found to be very moving. From the hill One of the beautiful, although Ihis weaknesses and develop his on which 'We lived I could look down must admit, often difficult things forpersonal resources. He gains a into the valley and out on to the me in this relationship, is that it isgreater knowledge of the congreg_ation mountains and forests which lived with and through every singleand gradually integrates himself into embraced us oii all sides. It was here, person that enters my life. Whetherthe community. Hence, ample amid the common routine, the friend­that person be amiable or hostile andprovision is made for prayer, for ships and tensions, the new and the our level superficial or deep, they have religious instruction, and for personal dull, and a scent offresh pine in the air an astounding impact on my life ofand community reflection.'' that we drew close to our Lord. And at prayer. Our Lord speaks through each One aspect ofa novitiate year is that the same time in majestic Cascade, my of us._ although one lives closely with several other brothers were doing thesame. The point is, Jesus Christ is notpeople, the experience is highly Drawing close to the Lord means simply my Lord or your Lord, but ourpersonal. By that I mean the creating the proper atmosphere and Lord. Having the same Father givessignificance, purpose and shape that attitude necessary to attain such us a common sonship. With thateventually emerges from the year will intimacy. Days of selence, periodic sonship I strongly believe a commonvary with each individual. Thus with retreats, personal daily meditation and responsibility is attached; that we have respect to my other brothers, I can spiritual consultations, were some of the obligation to help one another live only speak for myself in relating some the tools we used to open and empty out and externalize our relationshipof the bJessings that occur during that ourselves to ·our Lord. with our Lord. We do ii by loving onetenure. How does a person attain such vivid another. Now that is a big item!; toIn Holy Cross, the technicalities of intimacy? This was the constantly love one another as He has loved us! when, where and how a novitiate year reaccurmg question I put to myself In my own life I can pinpoint several is to begin depends upon canon law, form the outset of the year How? I areas that handicap me from living this which allows the Superior General of certainly wasn't anticipating miracles counsel full-force. Fear, pride,the congregation the right to or visions. Ifl would have had them I prejudice, the limitations of time,determine date, plate and style. don't think they would have done personal responsibilities,There are two novitiates for Holy anything for me. To sense the rationalizations, are still very presentCross; onw in Cascade, Colorado and presence of our Lord and ~ive my to a person who wants to love and bethe other in Bennington, Vermont response to him was somethmg that loved. But faith in our Lord makes awhere I spent my year. -_ had to come from the depth of my lot of things possible, and I have yet to A typical day began at 7:30 with heart, and not from some inexplicabte see one thing stand successfully m themorning prayer followed by breakfast external extravaganza. way ofwhat our Lord wants from me orand chores around the house. At nine, Getting off the ground, so to speak, -for me.we would gather in the dining room for can be difficult. It was for this The novitiateJear concludes with aan hour or so discussing pertinent -beginnner. But gradually and only ceremony calle f1rst profession, intopics; religious life, pr;1yer, solitude, with perseverance did I manage to which each novice is formally accepted apostleship, the history of the gain altutude. Looking back on those into the Congregation of Holy .Crosscongregation, t:tc. Occasionally we first few months, I can say that the under the promises of celibacy,would have guest speakers and work­single most fear I had was wondering poverty and obedience, and theshops. Liturgy was at 11:30 followed what would happ~n to me if I gave in Constitutions of the congregation.by lunch. completely to our Lord. The thought These promises are made to theBecause the house we lived in was paralyzed me. I was beginning to take congregation for a period of none yearhuge and old the entire afternoon was our Lord seriously. IN my prayer, in and are renewed annually for a total ofdedicated to innumerable chores. The my reading of Scripture, and in my three_ years. At this time theonly exemption from this labor were personal reflections I was beginning to temf-orarily professed are eligible forthe two afternoons in which we had our take our Lord more seriously than I fina or permanent vows.apostolates in town. • Some of the guy had ever taken him before. If I may be allowed the liberty ofvtsited nursing homes or worked with As I reviewed my youth, my days in expanding the concept of a novitiatehigh-school students. I and three grade school and college, the pleasant year, I would suggest that it need notothers worked at the local hospital. and unpleasant inctdents, I was refer simply to a designated place, at a~vening prayer at 5:30 was followed literally dumbfounded by what I saw. I specific ttme, for a certain few. Oneby supper and dishes. We all did the began to feel, know and believe that undergoes a novitiate experiencecooking. Nights were free for reading, our Lord had been present in every whenever we take that time out tovisiting local neighbors, movies or just minute of my life, that led me up to stop, sit and listen to that ever sowalking around the area. that very moment which made me gentle voice of out Lord from within.On the property we had a garden realize how up until then, I had not An entire year set apart, to cultivate anplanted by the previous group of known how imminent our Lord had animated relationship is ideal, butnovices waiting to be harvested. We been. I was astounded and for the life isn't possible for every Christian. didn't wait long. In the field were the of me could not understand why our I believe that those of us who areusual agricultural assortment of Lord would want someone like me. I newly professed reli~ious who returnsquash, potatoes, zucchini, plenty of can be angry, selfish, thoughtless, to the everyday worfd, meet with anzucchini, onions, cucumbers, radishes, prone to sexual fantasy, self-pitying, awkwardness during this transition.tomatoes, lettuce and weeds. arrogant and on and on. But he would There is just no de-briefing pro~ram toOne day in early September the not relent. go through after such an mtensedirector of the novittate indicated that Prior to this time our Lord and experience.he would like me to pickle some myself have had a casual come-and-~o One of the most ardent challenges Icucumbers. Open to the suggestion, I relationship. I would give our Lord liis forsee we, as newly professedimmediately went about procurring a due in all the externals; attendance at confronting, is keeping that gentlemodest sized half-ton crock pot, threw mass, prayer (if that's what it could inner voice from being frighteneC:l intoin the cucumbers, a little bit of this, a have been called), the sacraments, and silence by the pressures and demandssmidgen of tbat, vinegar and salt, and sometimes I wo"!lld mutter, I love you, of day to day academic life. What isthen let the concoction quietly because it sounded nice and I thought · ~ood about returning here to Moreau,meditate in a dark closet for a few that was what our Lord wanted to Is that the staff have a fervent interest weeks. When the waiting was over I hear. in nurturing and advancin~ eachsampled a few. They were tasty · Then the tables turned and I started seminarian's relationship-With OUt tangy " but tasty. The other brethren feeling and thinking exactly what it Lord, at whatever level the person may however, who had all acknowledged a was I meant when I said, it is you Lord be at.fondness for this vintaged delight, I love, with heart and mind and spirit. I feel good being back at Notresomehow seemed to lose their I owe a lot of gratitude to the psalmist Dame. And if by chance or will youappetites after their f1rst bite. Back ofpsalm 63, because he took the words have forgotten everything I have JUStinto the closet went the pickles, me right out of my mouth when he said, said, I ~sk that as the school yearthinking they were late bloomers. "0 God, you are my God, for you I progresses lou call to mind the candid Some weeks later I brought them out long... On my bed I remember you. remmder o St. Paul to his friends atagain onto the tables,' even ~oing so On you I muse through the night, for Corinth, "Eye has not seen, not earfar as to slice the darn things mto tiny you have been my help; in the shad<Jw heard, not the heart of man conceived,wedges. Suddenly everyone was on a ofyour wings I rejoice." From then on what God had prepared for those whopickle fast, to commemorate the our entire;,_ relationship shifted from love Him."  



~~~--~--~ 


The Observer Thl.rrsPay, September 6, 1979 -pa_ge 8 

WHC seeks pledgees 



Students to aid hungry by fasting 
by Donna Teevan StaffReporter

I 
The World Hunger Coalition distribute pledge forms next Wednesday and Thursday their annual fasting pro­Coalition members will pass out the forms in residence hall lobbies from 11 a.m. to 1 
p.m. and from 4 to 6 p.m. both according to Mike Stegman, WHC co-ordinator. 
In an effort to increase parti­cipation this year, students are being asked to give up their Wednesday lunch meals rather than their dinner meals, as in last year's program. 
The fasting nights will begin Wednesday, Sept. 26 and con­tinue each Wednesday, except 
. during mid-semester vacation, .until Dec. 12, making a total of 11 fasting days. 
MCA 

STEREO LPS SERIES 398 
3.99 
ARISTA 

~D__.S.?~ ~O~tAa-oN JVtN~ /-I(E'? 
•"• -0 
ID 
ID 
-.,. z .. 
., c(c{ 
... ~z 
:z:c{ 
o­
-
-o 
-
.! ~ z' 
:1: 
COLUMBIA 
1-• 
cz:O 
"• 



oz
& zw PICTURED ITEMS ONLY•. ---------­
... 
.. ID 
O::z:
• •.,_
-
:::>1 ~ HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
~ 
~ 
• 
Stegman pointed out that pledgees may break their fast at 
any time during this period. 1f he should decide to resume tlie fast, however, the WHC will not receive any money from the dining hall for meals missed after the student has broken the fast. 
According to Stegman, the WHC will receive 75 cents per pled~ee for the lunch they forfett on each fastday. He said that last year the WHC raised $2, 102 from the fasting pro­gram, which is the major source of income for the WHC. Collec­tions in front of the dining halls and proceeds from benefits at the Nazz will complete the WHC's fund-raising program this year. 
The WHC' s funds are distrib­uted to various organizations selected by a WHC committee. 
Stegman listed Catholic Relief Services, the]ustice and Peace 
Center in South Bend, an Appalachian assistance pro­gram, and certain villa~es in India as some of the rectpients of WHC funds last year. 
''The groups who receive WHC money are involved in education, and utilize local community resources through self-help development projects. Stegman explained that groups must have ''very low overhead and administrative costs'' if they are to qualify for WHC funding. The WHC itself does not reserve any money to cover administrative costs. 
Stegman described the pur­pose of the fastin~ l?rogram as two-fold: "First, 1t ts a way of making money to help the' hun~ry. Secondly, it is an effort to ratse consciousness about the 

stiva 
-t 
RCA 

STEREO LPS SERIES798 
4.99 
STEREO LPS SERIES 898 
5.99 
J,. 

' 
s. 
BLUE OYSTER CULT MIRRORS 
1ncludmg Dr. Mus1c 11 Am The Storm The Great Sun Jester You re Not The One (I Was Lookmg For' iln Thee 
problem of world hunger.'' 
''Although the faster's hunger on fast days should remmd him of the pltght of the hungry, the fast is not an attempt to ''find out what a starving person feels like, be­cause tfiat's just not possible in this situation,'' Stegman ob­served. 
Stegman said that he has no specific number of pledges as a goal for this year's fasting drive. Last year 250 students participated in the program. 
Ste~man noted, however, that 'a few years ago there were as many as 1,000 pledges." Although he could not confirm a downward trend in the number of fasters in the program, Stegman did mention what he believed to be a recent decline in student interest in the plight of the hungry and poverty-stricken. 
\. 

The Observer Thursday, September 6, 1979 -pa,ge 9 

Welcome party profits to benefit 1 
Andy Sowder Scholarship Fund 
by]ane Barber 

Barney Voll said yester,-day he is orgaruzing a '100-keg' party to be held at the South Bend Union Train Station tomorrow. All profits from the $4.00 price of admission will be donated to the Andy Sowder Scholarship Fund established as a memorial to the senior who died of spinal 
meneagitis last April. The 
scholarship fund already holds 
approximately $5,000. 
Included in the price of $4.00 is transportation, food, enter­tainment, and live inusic. Scheduled to play from 8:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m., will be "Le· thal" a band' from Niles. 
According to Voll, "Lethal" plays "the kind of rock and roll you can dance to." An extra­added attraction will be Tim Hanlon, a professional magic­ian and ventriloquist. Hanlon, a South Bend native, will probably perform during a band break. 
Beer, potato chips, and pret· zels will be served throu$hout the party and hot dogs will be sold at an additional cost. 
There is no charge for trans­portation and the chartered buses must be used to get to and from the train station. Voll chose to charter buses because in earlier entertainment experi­ences they worked efficiently and smoothly. The buses will leave from the Notre Dame circle and Saint Mary's LeMans circle beginning at 7:30 p.m. and continuing every half-hour after that. A identifica· tion card is for en­trance into the party. . _ 
Voll, a Notre Dame senior, is majoring in American Studies. His interest in entertainment promotion spurred him to pur­suing his idea of sponsoring a party to benefit Notre Dame students and to continuin_g a tradition of fundraisers held for the Andy Sowder ScholarshipFund. 
Voll wanted to test his back­~round and organizational skills m the field of management and promotion to see ·if he should pursue this as a career after graduation. 
''We hope to raise between $3000 and $5000 for the scholar­ship fund. The students should identify well with a party that will benefit students just like themselves," Voll said. "~ 


.. 

Students took advantage ofyesterday's sunshine at Crossroads. fphoto by john Macor] 
Dayan-PLO talks to continue in search of Mideast peace 
HAlFA,, Israel (AP) -Moshe Dayan has held at least eight meetings with Palestinians in the occupied West Bank and an aide said yesterday the contro­versial foreign minister would continue to use such meetings in pursuit of Mideast peace. 
Leaders of hawkish factions in the coalition government said only the current state visit here by Egyptian President Anwar Sadat was preventing a drive to chastise Dayan for his meeting with West Bank leaders, most of whom support Yassar Ara­fat's Palestine Liberation Or­ganization. 
Dayan's personal crusade was in apparent direct conflict with the policies of Prime Minister Menachem Begin. who has said Israel will nevernegotiatedwith the PLO. So far, Begin has had no comment on Dayan's meet· ings and no other cabinet member has spoken publicly against the Foreign minister. 
Dayan's aide, who asked not to be identified, said there had been a minimum of eight meetings with West *Bank Arabs since Israel and Egypt signed their peace treaty m 
•'"''--'"· ............... "t'.'.o. ._._ .._~....... '• •••• -•••••. ­
March. Before he underwent surgery in June to remove ari intestinal tumor, the meetings were kept secret. Since then · several have been held more openly, the aide said. 
The meetings are likely to stop for the time being because Dayan's schedule is heavily booked in September with two European tnps and one to Washington. But the con­troversy is not likely to fade away. 
Dayan already has been criti­cized in editorials and by some politicians for appeanng to contradict the government's firm refusal to deal with the PLO. 
Dayan received support yes­terday from U.S. Secretary of Sate Cyrus R. Vance, who said in Washington that meetings with Arabs in the occupied territories are helpful in pro­moting negotiations on Pales­tinian autonomy. 
The 64-year-old Dayan rel­ishes the challenge of the _poli­tical controversy his meetings provoked, his aide said, and intends to go on meeting with Palestinians as time permits. 
~~QJUcuJ~ ama 
MASS follow-ed by
supper 
every_FRIDAY at the 

• • I •
• d !l
c• 
•

STUDENT UNION 
'j 


SERVICES! COMMISSION! I 
i I 
, I 



PLANTSALE I 
I . 
_j 
l

I \ 
·wed. & Thurs. ~rom 9am to 4:30\pm 
; I I ! 
LaForttllne ballroom ( 
and 

ORIENTAL ART EXHIBIT &SALE 
until Ftiday ftom 9am to 4:30 pm
. ' 
Lafortune 

r• ! ,• 

• 1 
r r---~--------------------------, 

THURSDAY SEPT. 20.8:00 pm WINGS STADIUm KALAmAZOO 
! ~ 
Tlck..ts are now on sale In South !Bend 
r· 

;exclusively at River City Recor~s. S0970 
1 


I U. S. 31 North-3 miles north of campus
I : _ :
I Fo~ further Information call 277-~242! ~-~-~-----------------~------J 



I. 
The Observer Thursday, September 6, 1979-pa~e 10 
Molarity 

WHY NtJr? BECAU~E YDUHA~ 
111/HITE.s I PERMNJENT P11ES5,8/i16HT CD~ORS. 
-

Doonesbury 

•••• •••• SENIORS •••• ••• LAST CHANCE FOR SENIOR PORTRAITS LAST SIGN UP FOR SITTINGS: 
LAFORTUNE LOSSY 
THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE 
8UITEQFLYCHAIR 


25o/o off bac~ammon sets with this ad 
silksc.•reens from $7.99 to $19.99 .nurals 8 ft. 8 ln. x 12 ft. S39 .99 
100 Center ffiishawaka 

S2.00 OFF WIT THIS COUPON 
~olors: yellow 
brown chestnut black 

THE LIFESTYLE FURNITURE COMPANY 

by Michael Molinelli 
I
/..:nus GOEs INTo At..LAAM W<tJ"ER BLEACH· ntiS /5 HOT WATER I:£TE~G£NT-7ll15 I 15 HOT WA1CR BLEAcH-;. 1THIS IS COL.DJ.WtJER Wffij 1 DETERGENT AND r.18RIC ~ 






Br. Luther assumes Housing position 

by G. B. Trudeau 
by Tom Hatler 
Brother Edward Luther has been named Assistant Director of Housing by incoming Hous­ing Director Fr. Michael 
Heppen. Luther will be responsible for all Off-Campus Housing facilities for the Uni­versity. 
Luther, a native of Baraboo, WI; has held a variety of managerial positions in the !::foly Cross Community, the 

S34.99 

most recent being house man­ager of Moreau Seminary. Luther is currently the rector of Morrissey Hall. 
Fr. Heppen stated_ that t~e purpose of the appointment 1s to tmprove the efficiency and coordmation of both On-Cam­pus and Off-Campus Housing. 
''Our main concern is that students have good places to live, whether these be on or off campus.-•. ~ ,think that housing should be handled by one central office. '' 
Student Body Presdient Bill Roche, Vice President Bill Vita and Housing Commissioner Mike Shepardson were all con· tacted by Heppen prior to .his announcement to get thetr comments. Shepardson was particularly pleased and en­couraged by Luther's app~int­ment. "I think it's a great tdea to bring off and on campus under one department," he said. "It will make it much more organized, create a. situa· tion much more conductve to off-campus students, and hope· fully ease some ~~jor . ?ff· campus problems, Citing 
as an example. 

Prior to Luther's appointment, the Director of Off-Campus Housing had been a part ume position with no official con­nection with the Housing Of­fice. Fr. Heppen hopes that he and Luther can provide more input and aid each other on both phases of student housi~g. 
The duties of the new Assist­ant Director will include collect­ing a list of all houses and their availablity to students. He wtll also see that the housing office inspects and rates all houses and apartments to insure their ~dequacy for student occupa­tiOn. 
Luther stated that, in the 
interest of the students, the 
Hvusing Office ''does not want 
students to take houses not' 
[continued on page3) 

Arts Council 
aids Blacks 
inadjustment 
by Andy Segovia StaffReporter. 

The orientation program for black freshmen was a tremen­dous success according to Zena Crenshaw of the Black Cultural Arts Council. ''AJI of our events were very well received and attended,'' Crenshaw said. 
"Our basic objective was to introduce the freshmen to the black upperclassmen who would aid them in adjusting to Notre Dame life," Crenshaw explained. 
During the black freshmen workshop, entering black fresh­men were given practical information regardmg various facets of the Notre Dame exper­ience, Crenshaw stated. "We wanted them to be aware of the organizations which would aid in the academic and social adjustment.'' 
Although many of the black freshmen come from back­grounds similar to the majority of the Notre Dame community, some still have special adiust-. ment problems, Crenshaw explained. "We try to alleviate these adjustment problems by promoting the unity of the black community so that those facing problems may draw strength from it," she explained. Black organizations, such as the Black Cultural Arts Council, 
· strive to meet the academic and social needs of the black com­munity, Crenshaw said. "We cannot expect the other Univer­sity and student organizations to meet these needs as effective­ly," she noted. Crenshaw stressed that the black organizations on campus do not seek to alienate the black students from the cest of the Notre Dame community but to maintain contact with black culture, social concerns, and art. ''By promoting awareness of the black culture we seek to enrich the development of all people,~· Crenshaw stated. The Office of Black Studies under the directiQn of Dr. James Stewart helped organize 
the cultural program. ~tewart, who has left on a leave of absence, agreed that bln~k freshmen often have speL adjustment problems. 
''Black freshmen should familiarize themselves with or­ganizations which meet the 
~(>ds of blacks. "Stewart said. 

cording to Stewart, 1 _,blems stem from the signifi­cantly small number of blacks enrolled in the University. Currently there are approx!-_ mately 175 blacks in the undergraduate population, Stewart reported. 
''This black-to-white ratio creates serious problems not only for blacks but for the entire Notre Dame community,'' he commented, "Students are not given the opportunity to be sufficiently exposed to black cul­ture and ideas, thus denymg them a learning experience." 
Students must collect sale items 
All books and money from the Student Union book sale should be picked up from 7 to ? P·~· tontght and tomorrow mght tn Rm. 2-C of LaFortune. 



The Observer -SportsBoard ThUrsday, 'September-6, 1979 ~ page 11 
J 
NATIONAL LEAGUE East w L Pet. GB
( Baseball 
Plttsbu~h 83 -55 .601 
AMER~CAN LEAGUE 

Eut  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Baltimore  00  46  .662  
Milwaukee Boston New York  83 79 75  57 57 61  .593 .581 .551  9 11 15  
Detroit  74  66  .529  18  
Cleveland  71  69  .507  21  
Toronto  44  94  .319  47  
West  
California Kansas City Minnesota Texas Chicago Seattle Oakland  76 73 72 68 60 59 47  64 66 66 72 78 82 93  .544 .525 .522 .485 .435 .417 .334  2V2 3 8 15 17% 29  

Wldnesdly's results Toronto at Baltimore, ppd., rain Detroit 9, Cleveland 3 Boston 5, New York 0 Minnesota 8, Kansas City 3 California 9, Chlca~o 8 Oakland 6, Mllwau ee 1 Seattle 1 , Texas 0 
Thursday's gamesNew York (Hood 4-0) at Detroit (Wilcox 11-6), n Chicago (Wortham 14·11) at. California (Frost 14-9), n Only games scheduled 
( Cross-Country) 
1979 NOTRE DAME SCHEDULE 

Oct. 5 ND Invitational 2pm 
Oct. 19 State Championships 4pm 
(At Indiana U.) Oct. 27 Central Collegiate Championships 
(At Western Mich.) 11 am Nov. 3 Illinois State 10 am . Nov. 10 NCAA District 4 Championships 
(At East Lansing Ml) 11 am Nov. 19 NCAA Championships (At Bethlehem, Pa.) 
11 am 

Home meets in boldface 
Montrea 78 54 .591 2 

St~ Louis  74  62  .544  8  
Chl~o Phlla elphla New York  71 69 53  65 68 82  .522 .504 .393  11 13Vz 28V2  
West  
Houston Cincinnati  79 79  60 61  .568 .564  . V2  
Los Angeles San Francisco San Diego Atlanta  66 61 58 54  73 79 82 84  .475 .436 .414 .391  13 18V2 2lVz24%  

Wednesday's resulb Montreal 4, Chicago 3 Los Angeles 5, Atfanta 3, 10 Innings New York at Philadelphia, ppd., rain Cincinnati 6, San Francisco 5 Houston 4, San Diego 3, 10 inningsPittsburgh 7, St. Louis 5, 11 Innings 
Thunday's games Montreal (Palmer 7·2) at Chicago (Me·Glothen 11-10) New York (Falcone 5-11) at Philadelphia(Espinosa 13-10), n Los Angeles (Sutton 12·12) at Atlanta (Hanna Q-1), n San Francisco (Knepper 9-10) at Cincinnati (Seaver 13-6), n Pittsburgh (Kison 10.7) at St. Louis (Marti· nez 12·7), n San Diego (Owchlnko 4-9) at Houston (Richard 15-12), n 
Giants _fire Altobelli 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) · San Francisco Giants owner Bob Lurie relieved Manager Joe Altobelli of his duties following Wednesday night's loss to the Cincinnati Reds, a team spokes­man announced here. 
"Coach Dave Bristol has been named as interim mana~er,'' said Stu Smith, the Giant's director of publicity. 
Team officials said the deci­sion by Lurie was not based on a panicular incident, but rather on the Giants' general record, which stood at 61-79 in the league following Wednesday's 6-S loss at Cincinnati. 



Russians lead World Games 
MEXICO CITY (AP) American athletes set the pace in all swimming qualifying heats ear· ly Wednesaay and the U.S. men scored another over· whelming basketball triumph, but the dominant Russians appeared poised to add to the lead in the lOth World Univer· 
sity Games. · A half-dozen gold medals were up for ~rabs late in the evening in men s gymnastics, a Russian stronghola, and the men's indi­vidual saber offered the Soviets another possibility of adding to their already impressive lead. 
Through the flrst two days of the 88-nation competition for colle~e-age athletes, the de­fendtng champion Russians had won seven of the 13 finals and had 17 medals overall. In gymnastics, the Russians had won seven of a possible eight 

Sports Briefs~-----. 
Swim meetinK to~y 
The Notre Dame swimming team will hold its organization­al meeting this afternoon in the foyer of Rqckne Memorial. Freshman and other interested newcomers should arrive at 
4: 15, and returning varsity swimmers will '*et at 5:00. Both men and women are invited. 
Crew holds meetin~ 
The University of Notre Dame Rowing Club (crew) will hold its first organizational meeting Thursday evening at 
8:30 in the LaFonune Theatre (room 16). All returning oarsmen and oarswomen are asked to attend this meeting. Any SaintMary's and Notre Dame students interested in join ing the crew are asked to attend their respective activities nights. Serious athletes of all weights and heights are welcome since crew events have lightweight and heavy­weight classes. Crew is a co-ed sport, with St. Mary's women competing with Notre Dame students. 
The club competes during the fall and spring semesters, traveling to regattas all across the country. This October the crew will be competing in the "Head of the Charles" regatta in Boston. This is the largest regatta in the world, and features crews from Harvard, Yale, Princeton, and some 200 other teams. 
~-------------------------------------------------JI 
medals. 

The United States, which sent a full team to these biennial spons festivals for only the second time, had won four golds and lO medals overall, all but one in swimming. 
Four more swimming finals were set for Wednesday night and the Americans were ex­
pected to add appreciably to their medals' cache. • 
The American men's basket­ball team cqmpleted its ftrst round play .J.ith an incredible 173-14 victory over Sudan. It was the thii.td consecutive game · in preliminary competition against very weak teams · in which the Americans had won by inore than 100 J>dints, but the 159-point winmng margin was the biggest of the games. 
Keough finally wins ... stifles Milwaukee 
OAKLAND -calif. (AP) . 
Hard-luck Matt Keough of the 
qakland A's pitched an ·impres­
sive five-hitter to fbeat the 
Milwaukee Brewers 6-1 'Wed­
nesday night, ending his 18­
game losing sreak which was 
one short of the American 
League record. f 
The only run ~allowed: by
Keough, 1-14 this season, was 
unearned in the rst inning. 
The right-hander, whose last 
victory was in September of last 
year, had • 1,772 Oakland 
Coliseum ·fans chanting, 
"Keough, Keough," as he 
mowed down the Brewers, one 

of baseball's best-hitting 
teams. 


l 
j 


------~~-----
Thilrsday, September 6, 1979 -page 12


SRorts 
Rebuilding year 

Runners prepare for season 
setting a distance, a time and a
by}ohn Smith 

rest period. For example,they
Sports Writer 

may run a quarter mile in 72 Who are Pat Sullivan, Chuck 
seconds, then rest for 45 se­
conds.
Aragon, Marc Novak, Pete 

Repetition training is similar
Burger and Tony Hetherly? 

in that it sets distance, time and 
''They are just a few of the most 

a rest period, but differs since
dedicated group of athletes at 

the process will be repeated
N.otre Dame,'' according to Joe 

over and over. The runnersPtane. They prticipate in a 
sport that has always won in the then attempt to reduce their 
times with each effort. Piane's
spirit of true Notre Dame 

goal is to have all the
athletes. They are cross-coun­

established runners complete
try runners, and Piane is their 

approximately 85 miles a week.
coach. 

The 35-man squad is allowed
The cross-country runner en­

seven competitors entered in a
joys no off-season, as constant Pat Sullivan 
meet. Of those seven, only theconditioning is a necessity'. 
top five finishers contribute to Sept. 21, the Irish face no
This training can be broken 

the team scoring. The first competition until October 5,~own into three types: distance, 
mt~rval, and repetition. place finisher recieves one when they host the Notre Dame point, seconJ place gets two, Invitational. The invitational is 
Dtstance traimng is just as it and so on down the hoe. The the largest of its type in the 

soun~s-to accomplish a/rede­

team with the lowest five man country, with teams from as far
termined amount of Ian , usu­

point total is the winner of the away as Alabama competing. 
al~y between eight and fifteen 

particular meet. The remainig The season continues through
mdes a day. Interval training 

mid-November when it culmm­28 or so team members com­
differs in that it attempts to 

pete in separate heats that are ates with the NCAA champion­
budd up and maintain a pace ~y 

not' reflected in the final team ships at Lehigh University in 
totals. Bethlehem, Pa. To qualify for 
Notre Dame lost four of its top the finals, the Irish wtll have to seven runners over the past place among the top four teams year, but that does not dull m their division, District 4. Piane's optimism. "This Their district contains all the
Irish optimistic under new coach 
should be a rebuilding year, but Big 10 schools but Iowa, Mid-A­I feel this year's team will be as merican and independent col­by Mark Hannukse/a and senior Paddy Mullen. The states. Whether or not we win strong, if not stronger than last leges.
Sports Wn'ter transfer student is junior Cindy it. will depend on the effort the year's," he explained. Piane expects a tough roadSchuster. gtrls put into their tennis this
Under the leadership of first ahead but he expresses great
Along with the returning vet­fall. If nothing else, I expect . Pianc:_:'s expecting help from 
year head coach J ory Segal, faith in his forces. He also 
erans will be a few new faces, them to give their best every mcommg freshmen who "don't
the Notre Dame women's tennis appreciates the amount of dili­
each of whom has a chance of moment they are on the come in with as good of 
team will open its second . gence it takes to be a cross­
breaking into Segal's starting courts.'' credentials as past years', but
varsity season this Saturday at country runner, despite the lack 
lineup. The newcomers are Through the efforts of last so far look as solid as ever.'' He
the Courtney Center Courts­of recognition.
Linda Hoyer, sister of Mark year's coach, Sharon Petro the feels freshmen have a shot at at
against DePauw University. ''I defy anyone to find more
Hoyer of the men's team Carol Irish are slated to participa~e in l~ast one of the seven posi­
The match is slated to begin at dedicated athletes who receive
Shukis, and Molly Wal~h, all ten dual matches, the ND-SMC tiOns. Aldo Bartolini and Carl
9:30AM. Jess in return," states Piane.
freshmen. Invitational, and the ND-SMC Bicic~hi appear to be leading
The Irish should be able to To argue with Piane about this
Irish Tourney. That will mark candtdates for those positions.
find out early whether or not ~oach Segal is expecting good statement, you would have to
The Irish have an unusual
th.e end of the regular season,

thmgs from this year's team
they will be able to live up to run to catch up with him and his
wtth the ~tate tournament to schedule this season, as they
last year's state championship and feels that it will take hard team. at one of their two-a-day
follow the weekend of October see September pass without a
performance, because DePauw work and dedication from her practices, any day of the week.
11-13. meet. Except for a time trial on was the team that the Irish team in order for it to return to 
edged out to win last year's the state championships. 
title. 'Tm excited about the poten­Irish items
The Notre Dame women do tial of this team. We are a 


have one thing going for them, much improved team over last 
however, and that is an abun­year, if for no other reason than 

Defense copes with in.furies
dance of experience. They will because the caliber of women's 
return seven members from last ~en~i,s is constantly improv­
year's team, as well as a mg, _commented Segal, a pro­Recent Notre Dame football teams havetransfer student who played in f~ssor in the Physical Educa­!ended good support to the theory that the bestthe number one singles position uon de(>artment. "I intend to offense is a good defense. And if the 1979
for Coach Kathy Cordes' Saint stress the mental and physical Paul
Fighting Irish point-prevention squad is to liveMary's Belles last year. aspects of the game upon this 
up to some of those past performances
Heading the list of the ND year's team. 
Mullaney
defensive coordinator Joe Y onto and crew hav~returnees will be the four super "If I can get the girls to take their work cut out for them.
so phs, Mary Legeay, Stasy 
advantage of their own 

With a Michigan-Purdue-Michigan State
Obremsky, Tina Stephan, and strengths, and exploit their gett~ng off to .a late start in practice.
debut for the Irish, pre-season injuries will be a
Peggy Walsh. Also returning Insh captam Dave Waymer also will most
opponents' weaknesses, as well 
greater hindrance for Notre Dame coaches as
from last year's team will be the as. play intelligent tennis, I likely be ready for the opener. Waymer has
they attempt to field their best lineup ' on
Cronin twins, Sheila and Laura, thmk we can return to the missed a good number of the fall drills due to
September 15 in Ann Arbor. But the luck of the 
back spasms and, more recently, an injured toe.
Irish has yet to shine on Y onto as numerous 
"Cichy is lookin~ most promising," saidConnors wins ~njuries. to key defensive person~el have forced Yonto on Tuesdar.. 'And Waymer is the same
mexpenenced performers to step right into the way --very promtsmg."
thick of thinJ!;s. 

Ifs.ome of the wounded heal, and the healthy 
llo_yd pummels GoolaRDriR 
The defensive line remains the hardest hit by remam that way, the opening Irish defense could 
NEW YORK (AP) -Chris the injury situation. End Scott Zettek, after read as follows: John Hankerd, left end; Pat
finals of 1975 and 1976. 
Evert Lloyd beat Evonne Gool­Goolagong had a 4-1 lead in undergoing knee surgery in the spring, has not ~ramer, left tackle; Don Kidd or Kevin Grifflth, 
agong Cawley, one of the recovered as quickly as was hoped. In fact, nght tackle; Joe Gramke, right end; Bobby
the first set before Lloyd won 
opponents she had most feared, whet~er or not he plays at all this fall is highly Le~pold, ~e~t backer; Bob Crable, middle bat:'ker';,·-r,-1
four games in a row, reaching questionable. Mtke Whtttmgton, right backer; Dave Waymer, 
7-5, 6-2, and Jimmy Connors 5-4 on her third break point. /)I
easily beat Pat DuPre 6-2, 6-1, Senior Mark Czaja, who hoped to step in at le,ft corner; John Krimm, right corner; Steve
~oolagong broke back to even 
6-1 Wednesday in the quarter­It, savmg four set points. defensive end after missing the last two years Ctchy, strong safety; and Tom Gibbons, free finals of the U.S. Open Tennis also falls under the unlikely category. ' safety.
But Lloyd capitalized on Gool­
Championships. Another senior, Jay Case, is also questionable 
agong's apparent lapse of ener­Some other notes ofinterest: 
Billie Jean King, seeded according_ to Yonto. The Cincinnati native has . . Ironically, Michi~an has not lost a
gy to break at 15 for 6-5. Sheninth, beat Virgima Wade 6-3, served out the set at love. been suffering from lower back problems but non-conference game 10 the regular season since7-6, and meets Lloyd in the may start working out soon. Noneth~less Dan Devine's 1969 Missoun team beat theThey traded breaks at the startsemifinals. 
he remains questionable. ' Wolves, 40-17, at Ann Arbor. That was Boof the next set. Goola~ong heldWednesday night, top-seeded When the Irish reported to fall camp,. Schembechler's initial year at Michigan.
in the third game, but Jt was theBjorn B~rg was to play Roscoe last game she would win. soiJhomo~e strong safety Steve Cichy was among Additionally, Devine's 1959 Missouri teamTanner m a quarterfinal match. 
the q~~sttonables. A reoccurrence of a previous opened its season with a 20-15 win overIt was Tanner who extened Lloyd reached triple match back tn)ury first threatened to keep Cichy out for Michigan. Every ten years, huh?
Borg to five sets in the final at point, then netted a backhand 
the enbre season, but after a final medical exam 
Wimbledon this year. giving Goolagong one mor~ ...Offensive guard J oh Leon has appeared to
he was given the green light. ' 
Lloyd, who has won this title chance: Bu~ the defending have won the starting left guard spot. He the last four times, was tenta­c~ampton put Jt away next point . Now that a special brace has been fitted for stepped in for Ted Horansky a while back when tive against her long-time rival, wtth a service winner wide to Ctchy, he has resumed hitting. Irish coaches are Horansky pulled a hamstring muscle, and is whom she beat here in the Goolagong's forehand. hopeful that he'll be ready for Michigan, despite playing better than ever, according to Devine. 
I \ ·I I 
I I H ,, ' 
.\l~hlt Ill 






