

VOL. XIV, NO. 32 

an independent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's .WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1979 
Carter vo\Vs to fight inflation; comments on several issues 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh spoke at Howard Hall last night. [photo by Ken Berumen] 

Britiangives rebels titne to change tninds 
LONDON (AP) -Britain yester-Br1"tat·n has 1·nst"sted from the day gave the ~uerillas at the start a constt"tutt"on must be Zimbabwe Rho esia peace talks finalized first if this latest bid to 4~ hours to change thei_r minds end the seven-year-old war and a~d ~ccept ~ compromtse con-bring an internationally accept­smunon for mdependence. able black government to the The future of the five-week-. nation of -7 million blacks and 
old conference hung in the balanc. e as th.e Patriotic Front guernlla al.h3'-nce responded~?at the ,~nt~sh dem.and ~as absurd, reiterated tts obJec­
. k f h 
nons _ to. ey area. s . o t e c?nsutuuon and s~t d tt ~ould 
gtve no final verdict unul all sides agreed on who will control the government and the guns 
during a transition to British-
granted independence. 
Carrington made the demand yesterday morning and the Patriotic Front and the oppos-' ing delegation led by Zimbabwe Rhodesia Prime Minister Abel Muzorewa faced each other again at the Lancaster House conference center after four weeks of constitutional argu­ment. Muzorewa has already accepted the British draft. 
The foreign secretary did not say what he would do if the guerrillas did not respond in the allotted time. 
He ruled out any more nego­tiations on the British draft and said the conference could not move on to discuss transition arrangements unless the Patri­otic Front gave a definitive answer on the constitution when the talks resume tomorrow morning. 

Patriotic Front co-leader Joshua Nkomo ur~ed that the "spirit of discusswn" should continue, and Carrington re­plied ''there comes a time when the spirit of decision must take over,' ' officials reported after the 30-minute closed-door sesswn. 
, ...# ..~ 

230 000 whl.tes l·s to have any hop'e of success. 
Carrin~ton has ruled that constitutional agreement will fall away t"fthe two st.des cannot also agree on the second 
agenda item -settin~ up a 
transition administration and arrangements for British-supervised elections. 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­President Carter renewed his commitment yesterday to do "whatever it takes" to fight inflation, even if this means unpopular economic policies that could damage him politi­cally. 
In a nationally broadcast news conference, his first in nearly 2 months, Carter said he supports efforts by the Federal Reserve Board to tighten credit. 
Carter said b:-inging rising 
by Tom Hay 
Senior StaffReporter 

r The Faculty Senate last night !discussed preliminary returns If the faculty attitudes survey that 
~ b 

was sent to facuItv mem ers Sept. 19. Ken Goodpaster,
· ·d -h · 

senate cba1rman, .• sa1 t e tm­
. · f h · 1

1 t e parna report
p tcattoqs o were not at aII cIear; but he
" · · d 

added that certam tssues e­
· 1 d · • • 

fitmte y nee attention. 
f. b · AI h h
t oug tgures etng
d. d 1 

stu te were not compete,
. d. d h h

Goodpaster m tcate t at t e few re:spuu:ses yet to be compil­ed would cause no significant change in the trends shown by the initial n:port. 
One area· of strong faculty
· d b h 

concern pomte out y t e
· 1 h 1 
mcomp ete report was t ~ va ue of student r,fOUrse evaluations. Dissatisfac~·n with the way in
which eva! .. tions are used in administrau e decision-making
d b · f 

was expresse y a margm o two to one. Also in the report, a small majority of the faculty 
by Man-beth Moran StaffReporter 
After returning from a conference in Washington where he assumed the cha1r of the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, University President Theodore M. Hesburgh last night fielded questions on a variety of topics including the pope's visit, the situation of the unsettled boat people in South Bend, and the place that the University holds as a leader in world Catholic education. 
Hesburgh has been appointed by President Carter to head the select commission that was establishetl last year by Congress. A distinguished grouJ.> of statesmen and foreign affairs experts make up the committee, mcluding four senators, four Congressmen and four cabinet officers. 
The commission plans to submit its report in March 1981. 
Speaking before a crowd of approximately 50 students in the Howard Hall chapel, Hesburgh opened the forum with a description of his new responsibilities as director of the refugee commission. According to Hesburgh, this is the first cohesive commission on immigration in the United States since th-:­presidency of Theodore Roosevelt. 
As head of the commission, Hesburgh stressed that while the needs of the "boat people" are extremely pressing, there are many other refugees with whom the commission is concerned. With over 16 million displaced persom in the world today, Hesburgh stated that ''there are many other peoples to worry prices under control remains '·a top priority. '' If actions aimed at stemming inflation prove workable, "that's-"Lbat I will do," the president asserted. 
Although inflation has soared to an annual rate of about 13 percent, the president said his economic program has reduced unemployment and cut the federal deficit. The program has achieved "very beneficial results," Carter said, adding that he intends to maintain it. 
Carter said Pope John Paul II 
f d d · h 
avore abap onmg t e present 
course evaluation system. 
Goodpaster said these results were .·a mandate to take a h d k h h­
100

ar er at ow teac mg
quality is evaluated at the University"
"lt'sapuzzle,'' he said, ''but
f ­

it is clear that the acuity 1s not
fi d -· h

saris te wtth the way t ey
d

(course evaluations) are use .'' Accordinv to senate discussion, 
<? h d

the quesnon is whet er stu ent 
· · f r 1 · 
opmwn o pr01essors a one 1s
ffi · · · r · d · 
su 1c1eot cntena 10r JU gmg
teacher effectiveness. 
Discontent over the Admini­stration's policies of faculty promotion, tenure, and renewal was also brought up in the . . fi d. A d . . 
minal m mgs. ec1s1Ve
f h d"

majority o t ose respon tng
favored a formal appeal proce­dure in faculty advancement . I . . r
questions. Centra cntena wr 
· d

promotions an tenure were 
seen as unclear by a substantial 
majority of responding faculty. 
[continued on page 6] 

about too--Koreans, Hispanics, Cambodians, and many African peoples." 
A student in the audience then questioned him on the University involvement in local efforts to resettle boat people. To date the University has taken no official action in extending aid to the United Religious Community and their Southeast Asian Task Force who are speatheading-local efforts to resettle the refugees. 
"The University is a charitable institution," he said, "we can't afford to spend the money, we have trouble breaking even. We do encourage our students to help though, by taking up a collection or sponsoring a family in South Bend. We all have to do our job~" 
Sorin Hall endeavored to take in a boat person this September ro live in the dorm. Hesburgh stopped this move because Sorin Hall, "is a student residence for students..Jf they want to support one in South Bend that's great." 
Hesburgh addressed a wide range of questions on the pope's visit. He stated that he had invited the Pope to Notre Dame but his schedule was too full by the time that the pontiff received the invitation. ·'I gave him a color picture of the place and everythin~,'' Hesburgh noted. ~ 
On the tssue of women priests, Hesburgh said that while he had no troubles with the concept there has been 2,000 years of tradition against it in the Catholic Church. Also, he said he felt that the press emphasized the wrong issues on their coverage of the Pope. 
The press ignored many of his positive pronouncements on 
[continued on page 3] 



News in brief 

Wednesday, October 10, 1979-page 2 


None Of 'Above to run 


for governor ofLouisiana 
NEW OR":-EANS (AP) -A candidate for governor who changed h1s name to ''None Of The Above'' cannot get his new name on the ballot, says the Louisiana Supreme Court. but Above presses on. "We plan to carry this to the U.S. Supreme Court," said Above, the former Luther Devine Knox. Yesterday he said the court upheld two lower court decisions without comment. One of Above's major campaign planks is a promise to make the state ~ive voters the chance of rejecting all candidates. If a majonty voted for "None of the Above," it would force a new race with new faces. 

Israel considers canceling municipal elections 
TEL AVIV, Israel (AP) -Israel is considering canceling municipal elections scheduled in April for the occupied West Bank of the Jordan River, an Israeli newspaper reported yesterday. The Haaretz newspaper's military correspondent wrote that Israeli authorities may cancel the electwns for fear the campaign would disrupt negotiations with Egypt on estal->lishing Palestinian autonomy in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. The newspaper said Israeli authorities fear that additional elecuon victories by pro-PLO candidates would make it virtually impossible to find moderate West Bank Arabls who would be willing to join the autonomy negotiations. 
High intrest rates cause 

stock market dive 
NEW YORK (AP) -The stock market took its steepest drop in more than five years yesterday in a day-long slide blamed on spiraling interest rates and fears of a deepen.ing recession. Bank stocks, savings and loans and other financial issues came under particular pressure amid fears of a credit squeeze. But blue-chip industrial and transportaiton stocks also tumbled, as the selling swept into virtually every corner of the market. The Dow Jones average of 30 mdustrials fell 
26.45 to 857.59, marking its largest loss since it tumbled 
26.99 points onJ. an. 9, 1974, in the midst of the last recession and the Arab oil embargo. 

Weather 
Variable cloudiness with a 30 percent chance of afternoon 


South African problems, politics highlight Friday Conference 
by Kate FaTTell 
The Black Cultural Arts Council and the World Hunger Coaltion will co-sponsor a South Africa Conference Friday and Saturday at Haggar Hall. The wnference will attempt to high­light the politics and problems of the apartheid state with a 
program  of  films  and  guest  
speakers.  
The decision to hold  a  South  

Africa conference reflects the efforts of these two organiza­tions to move beyond simple charity and into the realm of justice, according to sponsor officials. 
The sponsers see the confer­ence as a way of calling attention to the problems of structural injustice. Notes con­ference director Sara Yang of the Hunger Coalition, ''One of the responsibilities of the Education Committee (of the Ifunger Coalition) is to increase awareness of such issues.'' 
The Education Committee chose to focus on South Africa because it believes the country to be, in the words of confer­ence advisor Professor Pete W alshe, "a microcosn of the 
Liberal Arts 
presents Career Day 
global community. '' 
Walshe argues that while the South African industrial revolu­
tion  of  the  early  twentieth  
century  brought  black  and  
whites  together in  economic  

interdependence, the white minority has used Western technology and power to con­centrate the benefits ofnatiomii development into their owg hands, and seeks to ensure its material superiority by the "homeland policy". 
Walshe explained that this policy of separate development of the races allots 87 percent of South Africa's land area to the white 20 percent of the population, and leaves the re­maining 13 percent to the the nation's 18 million blacks, who can develop these ''tribal home lands" only under the eye of the white central government. 
Thus, as Walshe points out, racism and classism interact to aggrevate moral 'and material deprivation. 
Two introductory films will be presented tonight--'' South Afri­ca: the Fruit of Fear" will be shown at Saint Mary's Carrol Hall at 7 and 9 p.m. and "South Africa: One Nation Two Na­tionalisms" will be aired also at 7 and 9 p.m. ia the Hayes­Healy audttorium. 
The conference actually gets underway Friday at 7 p.m. when W alshe will speak on the ''The South African Predica­ment'' in Room 117 Haggar Hall. 

The Rev. Theo Kotze, exiled director of the Christian Insti­tute of Cape Town and present­ly a visiting fellow of the Notre Dame Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry, will open the second day of the conference with a talk scheduled for 9 a.m. Saturday. Recently escaped. from house arrest in South Africa, Koti:e will speak on "South Africa and the Christian Consciousness''. 
At 10:30 a.m., the conference will addresss itself to a topic of gro-..ying_controversy_: the role of foretgn Investment Jn perpetu­ating apartheid policies, and the racial practices of foreign companies with production fa­cilities in South Africa. 
Tim Smith, director of the Interfaith Center for Corporate 
[continued on page 5] 

u.f.JcpQanm

Jill C(]'QoweJtg 

f:oR €V€RY occas1on 

Unreasonable Prices 
Just 01al 284-4841 BORinG hOURS "'""~.,..,......-r-or lemans 
showers. High in the low 50s. Fifty percent chance of showers tonight and tomorrow. Low tonight in the low 40s. High tomorrow in the low 50s. 

12:15 pm, SEMINAR, "potential applications of genetic engineering in industrial fermentations," dr. erickson GALVIN AUD. 
4: 15 P.m, MEETING, student committee for the investigation of m1litary nuclear and disarmament policy, LAFORTUNE BASEMENT 
4:20 pm, COLLOQUIUM, "k-vacancy production in high energy ion-atom collisions," dr. cocke, 118 NIEUWLAND 6:30pm, MEETING, sailing club, 204 O'SHAG 
6:30pm, MEETING, off campus council, LAFORTUNE 7 pm, MEETING, women's cross country, FARLEY LOUNGE 
7 pm, ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING, big brothers/big 
sisters, ARCHITECTURE AUD. 7 pm, MEETING, mardi gras, LAFORTUNE LITTI..E THEATRE 
7 & 9 pm, FILM, "south africa one nation, two 
nationalisms." HAYES HEALY AUD. 7 & 9 pm, FILM, "south africa the fruit of fear," CARROLL HALL SMC 
7, 9, 11 pm, FILM, "fm" ENGR. AUD. 
7:30 pm, MEETING, "the redcoat's revolution," gregory urwin, LIB. LOUNGE 8 pm, PLAY, "hamlet," WASHINGTON HALL 
8:30pm, MEETING, chestertonians of nd 9 pm, SOCIAL MEETING, knights and ladies of columbus, K OFC HAll 
9 pm JAZZ at the NAZ2 

The Notre Dame Placement Bureau will sponsor a Liber:U Arts Career Day tomorrow tn the LaFortune Student Center from noon until 4:00 p.m. 
Representatives from more than 25 careers and industries will be in attendance to answer students' questi01 • ..: and to pro­vide literature for students to take with them. 

f.-The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Margaret Kruse Asst. Night Editor: Suzy Marshall, Dave ''J think I have a tape worm" LaBerge Copy Editor: john McGrath Edttorial Layout: Ann Gales Features Layout: K. Connelly · Sports Layout: ]ohn Smith Sports Copy Eaitor: Mike Olenik. Typists: Nancy Malone, Tina Terlaak, Beth Huffman, 
Proofreader: Mik~ Shields ND Day Editor: Keith 
Melara~no 

Ad Des1gn: Matt DeSalvo Photographer: Ken Berumer Guest Appearances: john Macor, Rod ''Don't tell Ryan'' Beard 
Tht Observer [USPS 511 1211) Is publiahtd Mondly through Frltlay U· cept during eum and VICitilll perildl. The Observer IS ~blisllld br till students Iff NDtrl Dime 111111 Slillt Mary's Cllllgl. SlllllcripliiM lillY Ill PllfCIIned ,. 1211 ..... ,..,-rs• ,...
...-terl 11'1111 The Observer. ;.0.1111 
a. ....,. blllll,lllllilu ... s.-1 c11S1 peatiQI Jllkl, NM D11111, 111­dillll 48151. 
The Observer is 1 l'lllllllllr If 1111 
~ Prlls. An , • ......, 
"""' "' f'IRMd. 

The Station that Rocks you AM from the Tower TONITE PRESENTS 
The Soul Hour from 9-11 Featuring the best in Jazz, Soul, Rythm and Blues And Sportsline, where you the.listener can call in. 
All From Notre Dame's Stud~nt Rock, AM 64, 



ampus Kennedy 80 Meeting ursday 7pm

Little Theatre Lafortune 
For Info Call Paul Lewis 8451 


Mich  Santella,  Kathy  
MuTTa_y  
EMT:  Came  Britt,  Kim  
Convey  

RAMROD BAR 
.~~ ~I 
~~ Each and every tq0~ Wednesday $2.00 Pitchers of Beer-9:00 till closing 
5ee Buddy King from W]V A Fri & Sat 9:30-1:30 
No Cover Charge with Student lD 

511 S. Michigan St. 






by Jane Kirby 

Sr. Helen Volkomener, exec­utive director of the Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry (CCUM) has called for new efforts to "bring to the atten­tion ofthe U.S. Catholic Church the gross injustices to the spirit of the yet-loyal women w1thin the Church.'' 
Sr. Volkomener's call came in a statement made Monday at Notre Dame, which expressed "shock and sadness over the words of Pope John Paul II yesterday in Washington, 
, , , Hesburgh 

[continued from page 1] 
brotherhood, family life, and the feeding of the world's hungry and tended to concen­trate on the controversial issues that made up a small percent­age of the pope's statements, he said. 
''The pope~_on manyissues," Hes _ -d, •but they {the press--ntered on sex, aboruon, and divorce-­issues that affect one tenth. of one percent of us.'' The Campaign for Notre Dame was another key issue discussed at the forum. The er dowment goal, when reached, will total some $150 million, putting Notre Dame number 12 on the list of priva_te Universities. With this money the University hopes to keep tuition down and to provide fo 
for everything from philosophy chairs to club sports, Hesburgh said. "We have the ability to 
be the greatest Catholic univer­sity in the world." 
Toward the end of the forum, Howard Hall President Jerry Murphey challenged the place that ROTC holds on camus that 
Sale of hockey tix_ 
Notre Dam(: undergraduate, graduate, law, and married students, and Saint Mary's students wanting to purchase season hockey tickets may pick them up at the second floor box office of the ACC today through Friday, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on each day. 
These tickets will be issued on a first come, first served basis, so students wishing to sit together must first present their J.D. cards together. Each student may present a maxi­mum of four ID' s. 
Prices for Notre Dame-Saint Mary's students are: 13-game season ticket -$13.00; Friday night series (seven games) ­$7 .00; and Saturday night series (six games) -$6.00. Ticket prices for the_spouse of married students are $19.50 for the 13-game season ticket; $10.50 for the Friday night series; and $9.00 for the Satur· day night series. 
No season tickets will be sold after October 12. 
_ D.C." concerning women and the Church. The pontiff, before 5,000 nuns in Washington's Shrine of the Immaculate Con­ception Sunday affirmed the traditional roles of women int the church, emphasizing the value of parochial schools and the contemplative life. 
CCUM is a national network of priests, religious and laity • involved in social ministry. Sr. Volkomener pointed out that 5,000 of the CCUM's 10,000 members are women, all in­volved in social work in urban and rural areas of the United States. 
stands for Christian values. He felt it to be inconsistent with Notre Dame's position as a leading Christian university. Hesburgh countered with the statement that ROTC allowed many students to come here who might not normally be able to afford it. 
Last year the armed services paid more that $1.5 million for Notre Dame student, Hesburgh explained. He also said he f~lt that it gave excellent leadersh1p experience to ROTC graduates. 

jordan to be ofRedcoats 
Crergory ] . W. Urwin, a graduate student in the Notre
speaker for 

Dame Department qf History, will present a program entitled, 
Urban-Le-"'.ae 

"The Redcoat's Revolution" at IAfi) a meeting of the Notre Dame Historical Society at 7:30 p.m. 
Ver~ordan Jr., presid~nt tonight in the library lounge. of the National Urban League, A member of the Company of will be the featured speaker fo~ Military Historians and the the Urban League of South Brigade of the American Re­Bend's annual dinner Friday volution, Urwin has been close­night at the Notre Dame ACC. ly involved in recreating the life ] ordan has headed the and times of the revolutionary
2 H soldier at many bicentennial
197

Urban League smce · e £estivals and historic sites
directs the New York based 

or anization, which has 116 throughour_ the nation-. 
~liated agencies throughout Urn:m wdl appear at the 
the nation. Jordon has received meeung.fully dressed, armed, 
honorary degrees from 34 col· and eq_u!pped as a ~orporal of 
leges and universities, includ-, th_e B~msh 64th Regu?-ent. He 
ing Notre Dame. He also wdl dtscuss the .clothmg, wea­
serves on the boards ·of direc-pon~, songs, !t~estyles, and 
tors of several major corpora-tacttcs of th~ Brmsh soldte~s of 
tions including American Ex-the Revoluuonary War penod. 
press and Xerox, as well as the 
Rockefeller Foundation and 
M.I.T. 
The theme ~ of this year's 
dinner is "South Bend--Mobil­
izing for the challenges of the 
Eighties." 
Disarmament 

committee phone TE~n _you. need to !iJJ&.advO::tage of our prices!I meets today 272~0312 !Tues. Wed .. and"'lffiJ!'hurs. receive 10% off' 
"By singling out the.contem­plative life, and the work in the parochial schools, linked with the traditional service and dress statements," she said, "the Holy Father failed to support the areas where the struggle for a just society are the strongest-­in social mmistry, in work for peace and justice.'' 
She stressed that the mem­hers of religious orders suffer from the same stereotyping as all women in the United States. "The words of the Holy Father, through what he omitted to say, as well as what he said, have increased the burden on women and have prolonged the struggle for justice in this segment of society.'' 
Sr. Volkomener blamed the Church in the United States for the "inadequacies" of the Pope's statements. In her optnion, the Church in the United States did not give the Pope "a glimpse of the reality, which includes women in leadership positi,ms, creatively and tirelessly working in advo­cacy roles bringing about em­powerment of the poor in cities and in rural areas." 
1 

Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University president, was in Washington for the Pope's visit. 
''I think that it is evident that there will not be ordained women priests during this Pontificate--that is his (John Paul's) responsibility and h.if 
Urwin talks 
jud~ement," Hesburgh noted. "I unagine that there will be women priests someday, al­though there are 2,000 years of tradition against it. I can still hope. I believe that the theological problem is not insurmountable.'' 
Sr. Volkomener has schedul;: ed an informal discussion to· morrow at 2:30 p.m. in the library lounge on "Women and the Church." All are invited to attend. 

Hump 
LEE'S BBQ 

Tonight 9-1 
The Week's ·Half Over! 
All You Can Dtink 
Sponsored by ND-Smc Soc. Clubs 
1-----------------­
JUST FOR THE RECORD I 1 in the 100 Cent~r 1 I offers 10% off on I
I I
EYERYTHING 
1 with ID & coupon 1 I RECORDS, TAPES, paraphernalia I 

100 Center 700LWW-lJS33 Mishawaka 
Free Admission Parkmg Entertainment 
Complex 
ph . 255~8661 
Party Trays Bargain Prices and 10% off with Student ID 
ID~t 1\niglfts 
.men's hair styling 
only 5 minutes fro19 campus . Are _you tired of high Piices? 
•· ,,IJ styled ¥111 sba11'1Pfloo.L fJir drv. ··~-reg. fJriC~: B)Q · · .. pteijse ih~w Jij: 
~as1l/tli.A'nti; ::Mfwt.,ii-Donnp-or lo.fl.nne ·~ 
54533 TERRACE LANE 
One Block East of Ironwood North of State Road 23 
Any student interested in the issue. of nuclear disarmament is invited to an organizational meeting today at 4:15 p.m. for the Student Committee for the Investigation of Military and Nuclear Disarmament. The meeting will take place in the LaFortune basement. · 

277~1691 272~8471 
tfOURS: TUES, WED, SAT 1:30--5:30 THURS, FRII:30-1:30 
BY APPOINTMENT ONLY 


~.!..~ .... 

~ 
r 
, ~ 
r 
J 
r 
r 
r 
,r 
, 
,
,' 
,J , ~ ' , ' 
, r , ~ ,r , ~ , 
, r , ' 
,r 
, 
r 
Editorials 
Complimentary tickets: an inappropriate policy 
Student Union's policy regarding the distribution of 
complimentary concert tickets as compensation for Student 
Government and Student Union volunteers is expected to be 
a topic of discussion at the next Board of Commissioners 
meeting. The Observer urges the Board to reconsider its 
previous decision on the issue, and to discontinue a policy 
which has been the object of well-deserved criticism 10 the 
past three years. 
It is signtficant that criticism of the policy has come, for a 
large part, from persons who are themselves eligible to 
receive the comps. Two years ago the Hall Presidents' 
Council, which had previously received two sets of' 
complimentary tickets for each COQcert, voted to refuse 
tickets for future concerts on the grounds that "Student 
Union funds should be used for something that would 
benefit the student body at large," Even the last Board of 
Commissioners vote barely upheld the policy by a 5-4 
decision. 
Funds in the amount of $2,700 have already been allocated 
for 23 sets of complimentary tickets for each Student Union 
co-sponsored concert this year. In defense of this allocation, 
the Student Union Steering Committee has pointed to the 
wide range of activities sponsored by the Student Union, and 
has stated that the compensation can be equated to wages of 
about 11 cents per hour. 
The Observer by no means wishes to belittle the value of the work contributed hy Student Union volunteers. We realize that the Student Union provides services and activities that greatly benefit student life at Notre Dame. Undeniably, the time put in by Student Union workers is worth much more than 11 cents an hour. The time put in by volunteers in numerous other organizations on campus is undoubtedly also worth this amount; but the nature of v_olunteer work precludes the need for substantial compensa­tiOn. 
It would be ideal if everyone who worked to make this campus a bener place could be compensated for their efforts with free concert tickets or wages. But in light of the circumstances that exist at Notre Dame, this is simply not possible. Compensation for volunteer work on this campus should come in the form of the experiences you gain, the people you meet, and the satisfaction you receive through the work you do. 
We suggest that a preferential ticket policy--by which Student Union workers could purchase tickets reserved for them without the hassles of lotteries and long lines--would be a more appropriate method of rewarding hard-working volunteers. Th1s policy would be an extension of an already existing system of pref tickets. 
We urge the Board of CorPmissioners to eliminate the complimentary ticket policy and replace it with a more reasonable extension of preferential ucket distribution. 
I THIN!< 711& II/OR'?T &VfiN IF H& /rfANA(j£{) 7HIN6 IS 8/31NG IN 7D CHEAT /JE.ATH AT UMBO, J: J:, 577/..L.. 7H& LA~ MINt/'m, IUHO NOT f(N(W!NG a/HAT /(NJ(,(/S «JIIEW ruSC/3I?&IIUY HAPP&Ncl/ 111M NEXT~ IT C/X//.1?
70 a//(/3. .. ~MONTHS, Y~! 
I I 

October 10, 1979-page 4 

Recendy,there has been mtu:;hcontroversy concerning the complimentary ticket poli<:y held by the StudentUnion. We would like to clarify this position by explaining precisely what the policy entails and how the process works.· 
Pnor to ticket sales for all Student Union 
·co-sponsored concerts, all Student Union Com­missioners submit to the Associate Director a list of workers whom they feel deserve either complimentliry or preferential tickets. (Comp rickets are actually paid for by the Union and then distributed to workers; prefs are paid for by the workers themselves.) All lists are subject to the final approval of the Director and Associate Director. The approved list is then forwarded to the ticket office manager, who ''pulls'' the required amount before the tickets go on sale. 
There are limits to the number uf comps and prefs that can be pulled. In total, 23 pairs of comp tickets can be withheld for co-sponsored concerts. The Student Body President can receive two sets of tickets; the remaining 21 sets are available for distribution in the following manner: Admin!sttation--six · sets; Academic Commission--two sets;Cultural Arts Commis­sion--three sets; Concert Commission--one set; Social Comrn.ission--four sets; Services Commis­sion--four sets: and Movie Commission--one set. For preferential tickets, up to 17 sets can be withheld for both co-promoted and ACC sponsored concerts. These numbers represent the maximum amount of tickets which can 
possibly be withheld. The Direct<>r and AssQt;iat~ J?i~e~tor may decide not to. granphe full amount requested by each commissioner; the .;:omrnissioner may not always ask for their full allotments; any commissioner who does not submit a list by a specified deadline will not be permitted to receive any comp or pref tickets. 
We recognize the fact that the Student Union is considered to be a "volunteer" oq~anizadon; yet at almost aU major universities, mdividuals are hired full-time at salaries which begin around $10,000.00 to do the kinds of jobs whtch 
· we are expected to do here for free. Because we work on a limited budget with which we try to provide as many services and activities as possible "at little or no cost to the individual students, we realize that it is simply impossible to truly • 'compensate" individuals for the amounts of work which they provide for students--we just don't have that kind of money at our disposal. Instead, we try to express our gratitude by offering complimentary or prefer· ential tickets to those indtviduals who work on services and events which are taken advantage of by every member of the Notre Dame community at some time or another. 
Our intention in writing this article is not to "beat a dead horse," so to speak, but rather to make it clear to the student body exactly what the tickets policy is. We wish not to belabor a trivial point, but to offer a clearer understanding of our attempts to do the best we can with what we've got. We aim not to be unreasonable in our expectations, but realistic. 
The Student Union Sidrfring Committee 
P. 0. Box Q 

Pope overlooks 'poor people' 
Dear Editor: 
Unfortunately, Fr. 
Hesburgh's Monday morning 
prediction that the Pope's 
American visit will include ''no 
drastic changes in the Church,'' 
looms as more than a long shot. 
He is probably correct, but his 
added comment ''because they 
(changes) are not necessary" 
should spring as a source of 
concern for the people of this 
community whose lives are 
affected by the judgment of 
this man. Does Fr. Hesburgh 
really believe that ''drastic 
changes in the Church are not 
necessary?'' 
Rather that pursue the objec­tive, legalistic tactics of Paul VI to educate and legislate, John Paul II chose the "soft sell," enveloping his hard stance in heartwarming poses, spontan­eous witticisms and anecdotal departures from decorum, interwoven with the humanitar­ian theme of social justice. Granted, this tour has worked wonders in demythologizing the Papacy, but the Pope's concern for the "poor," upon closer observation, seems to extend to those outside the Catholic Church, rather than those 
within. 

There are a few groups of "poor people" within the Catholic Church whom the Pope seems to have either overlooked or been ignorant of. Among these are: 
-the ''poor" women of the 
Church, whose second-class 
status prohibits the develop­
ment of full participation in the 
life of the Church as sacra­
mentally expre&sed: ·· · •v 
-the "poor" men in the 
Church who are trapped be­
tween the realization that 
ordained ministry is no longer 
an effective means of personal 
salvation and self-realization 
and the fact that they are 
juridically bound to an institu­
tion which is either unaware or 
unresponsive to their needs. 
-the "poor" men who desire 
to serve the Church minister­
ially while engaged in a 
meaningful interpersonal rela­
tionship. 
-the "poor" parents-to-be' who are faced with the respo.n'­sibility of a new life withoudhe means to maintain that'~ life adequately. 
-the .''poor'' lesbians and gays who gaze ironically at a l:.omosexual hierarchy which lovingly offers them a life of imposed celibacy as the only acceptable means of salvation. 
Given these oversights in the Papal appraisal ofhuman needs of the "poor," one must surely conclude that Fr. Hesburgh's comment about no drastic changes in the Church being necessary was no more than a misprint. 
Craig B. McKee 
-
Tired of hearing 
about comp tix 
Dear Editor: 

I do not understand all the fuss being made about the Student Union ticket policy. If everyone on campus would take a minute to think about the events the Student Union coor­dinates each year, the list would include: refrigerator ren­tals, book exchange, plant sales, movies, academic speak­ers, outdoor concerts, Home­coming, Collegiate Jazz Festi­val, Midwest Blues Festival, Student Players, campus par­ties, Nazz, co-sponsorship with halls, concerts, Irish Wake and various other activities. It seems to me that the Student Union does more for ND-SMC c.ommunity than any organiza­tion on campus. 
The tickets received by vol­unteer Student Union workers are well deserved considering the time the workers devote to making this campus a more exciting place. I believe the ticket policy should not be revoked. 
It is my hope that this issue will be resolved quickly, and in the Student Union's favor. I am tired of hearing about this issue. Is nothing else happen­ing on campus?. 
Clance Gambacorta 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 

The news is reported as accurately and 
-The Observer_ 

as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ................. .Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor......... .Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly &x Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries Editorial Editor........... ... Ann Gales Photo Editor ........... ... Doug Christian opinions and.. letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ........ .M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail-Executive News Editor...... Mike Lewis Business Manager........Steve Odland newspaper published by rhe students able to all members of the community, News Editor....................Mark Rust Production Manager.......Tim Sullivan of.the University of Notre Dame dulac and the free expression of varying News Editor............ ..... Mike Shields Advertising Manager.........Bob Rudy and Saim Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor .....Eilen BuddY. Controller................. .Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor....... .Margie Brass1l Circulation Manager..... .Greg Hedges 
I' , • -.... ,~ •' ............ . ...·---;";-":",\'"'\,.._:-"-:.'"!'»,.'l:'t,.o:"\'1!"1).4'1!",':"'L)'."'.~< 1 ..A~i_~i......···----=-:~~~-.· (:'l:i~ , "!".1~.-.~i.~i."!.-~-.'!'!"!'~~""l"~~-----'!"------~·....,-··-.,..~..,.-, 
------~ 

----~ -~---------­
The Observer Wednesday, October 10, 1979-page 5 
,,~,. t:cr-t._ r;.-r~./... . . . . . . ."l·"l\,1)-.\ -.~;_;.) ··1-,!-)•ifl w,ll '] .... ··0~\·~-:1 :-.·~ ''"'""-~:1 '.JH\1~ ,:~;:.··;r~ ?-)=·-~ ....._. ~.,.~.\~.·· ; ,_ .. " .:~--.-,""; --• ,.. ·-._·\•; ,,.)\1 ~--'1 . "'\'J\'\ ~\ ·•. •7-:..:'l ."·[f.·~ 
• • .... • • .. '· ..........................._ .... "<': 

Sophomore jim Mullane, a Sarin Hall resident, paints an ambitious mural ofThe Four Horsemen in that dorm's party room. [photo by Dave Rumbach] 

• • . Conference 
[ continuedfrom page 1 ] Responsibility of the Nanonal Council of Churches, will give a talk entitled "Investment in South Africa: Sullivan Princip­les?". The Sullivan Principles, pro­posed by Philadelphia civil rights leader Leon H. Sullivan in 1977, attempt to establish racial guidelines for the U.S. firms with factories and plants in South Africa. Briefly, they call for the non­segregation of the races in all 
Two incidents--a car crash at the main circle and the return of lost money and credit cards-­were reported by security this weekend. 
Gail Terry, director of Notre Dame Security, reported yes­terday that a 1972 Pontiac driven by Brian Liston of Berk­ely, IL. skidded early Saturday morning near the main circle, rolled over, and came to a crashing halt on the concrete embankment just west of the bus depot. No one was injured in the crash, and the car was declared a total loss. 
Christopher Beeman, of 227 Dillon, was listed in the security report as a passenger in the car. 
According to witnesses, as many as six people were in the car at the time of the mishap but fled the scene immediately afterward. 
According to Terry, the driver ''apparently approached the circle at too high a speed'' from Notre Dame A venue. The physical facilities, equal and fair emploment practices for all workers, training programs de­signed to prepare blacks and non-whites for supervisory, ad­ministrative, clencal and tech­nical jobs, increasing the num­ber of non-wh~es ~n supeP<i­sory and administrative posi­tions, and improving the quality of employees' lives outside the work place. 
Smith will discuss how these principles are being implement­ed and practiced by American 

Security reports 'Week-end incidents 
driver allegedly ''got his foot stuck between the accelerator and the brake," Terry said. The car apparently skidded when the dnver slammed on the brakes to avoid running onto the greasy area adjacent to the main quad. 
In two separate incidents over the weekend, money lost by campus visitors was located and returned to the owners. 
JimmyHasson, a youth from Olympta Fields, 11, found a money clip containin~ $50 in small bills, an Amencan Ex­press and Master Charge card, and a California driver's license belonging to George L. Bates of Tuftin, CA. The cards and cash were reutrned to the owner on Saturday. Mika Williams, of 208 St. Ed's, also returned lost money to security Saturday. Also returned by Williams was the billfold containing the mon: ey and identifying cards of Leo Sebastian of Norwood, IL. who was visiting for the weekend. 

'Discipline begins at home' 
Feinstein asks for parents',help 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Say­ing ''Discipline must begin at home," Mayor Dianne Feins­tein is appealing to parents for help in combatting attacks by mobs of black youths on white bus passengers. 
She also ordered that police officers be used to help guard the buses, saying, "We are going for arrests. It's the only way I know to stop this sort of thing.'' 
Police officials said yesterday that they had not yet decided how many officers would be assigned to guard buses. Transit officials said about 20 percent of the buses running at any one time carry an unarmed security guard. 
Mrs. Feinstein's announce­ment late Monday came a day after about 50 black boys and girls swarmed aboard a Munici­pal Railway bus and selectively beat and robbed the five white passengers aboard. It was the latest in a serie.3 of such racial incidents. 
"We must have strictness and discipline in the city and most of the discipline must begin at home," Mrs. Feinstein said. She urged parents to "restrict their youngsters at night and no allow them to just be roaming around the city at 2 a.m., when they are bound to get into trouble.'' 
''We have asked the courts to 
give strong sentences when 
these cases come before 
compames. 

While the topic of Mvubelo' s presentation is not known, it is believed she will talk about the South African trade union movement, and the necessity of collaboration and cooperation on the part of business and labor. Mvubelo's talk is spon­sored by the South Africa Foundation, an organization founded by South African busi­nessmen to explain present conditions in that nation to foreign observers. 
The Notre Dame chapter of the human rights organization Am­nesty International will also give a brief presentation outlin­ing the human rights situation in South Africa. 

Support Fightin' ltish Hockey 
Tickets On Sale Now Through Friday 9am-9pm includes noon hour 
ND and SMC Students· /lf3 Game Season Ticket $13.00 Friday-Night-Series (7 games) $7.00 Saturday Night Series (6 games) $6.00 
One ($) Ticket per I.D. 
1f you wish to sit with a 
friend, present your I. D. 
cards together. Four (4) 
I. D.'s maximum. 
them,'' she added. If any of the offenders are causht, she ad­ded, "they'lll do tune," 
Bus driver James Pyatt, 38, who is black, said the youths, ased 12 to 20, swarmed aboard his No. 38 Geary bus in the Western Addition when he stopped to pick up passengers about 2 a.m. Sunday. 
Pyatt said he called for help on his portable radio but got no response. Then a black passen­ger, who had tried unsuccess­fully to stop the beatings, ran from the bus and told two police officers a block away. 
"People are getting killed on 
BURN'S RENT-ALLS 2 Cu. FT. Refrig. $55 per year 
······························••+•
also TV's -Stearnex Carpet Oeaner 
10% off with student ID Large BBQ Grills Auto Tools Floor Care 
Equipment waka 259­


the bus down the street," the unidentified passenger told off­icers Delores Casazza and Rob­ert Gin. 
The officers said when they arrived, about 200 young blacks were milling around the bus. But the crowd dispersed before reinforcements arrived and all of the attackers escaped. None of those attacked appeared to be seriously injured, authorities said. 
Police said the youths appar­ently came from a dance that had been held at the Booker T. Washington Community Cen­Jer about a block away. 



....... --.,.------­

The Observer Wednesday, 1 October 10, 1979-page 6 
-~­


HPC makes plans for Hon1ecoming week 


by ]ana Schutt 
HPC met last evening in the basement of Cavanaugh Hall. Speakers on the agenda were Wayne Pellegrini, a clinical psychologist from Psychological Services Center of the Student Health Center; Bob Curley, president of the Lacrosse Club, and John Malcolm, Home­,:oming chairman. The winner of the Sowder Trophy for Sep­rember was also announced. 
After covering business on the agenda, the HPC in an almost unprecidented move asked all :-eporters and other spectators to leave at 7: 15 and continued the meeting in closed session on an as yet undisclosed topic. HPC officials refused ro com­ment on what had been dis cussed. 
Pellegrini explained a pro­gram planned by the Psycholo­gical Services Center which focuses on alcohol use and abuse at Notre Dame. He pnnted on the quest10naire. A list will be posted showing the standard scores on the surveys as they compared with other young adults in the 19-22 age bracket.'' 
Curley asked the HPC for its 
·support and cooperation in selhng green and gold pompons during the USC weekend. This project is a fund raiser for the Lacrosse Club. 
"~e're trying to add to sha­king down the thunder for t,he USC game. These pompons are bright and show up very well on television,'' Curley . said. "They sell for only $1." 
Malcolm announced that the Student Union Social Commis­·sion, which sponsors the Home­coming festivities, has decided that only those dorms which participate in the Hall Decora­ting Contest for Homecoming will receive first priority for sui?plements from Student Umon for co-sponsored events. A total of $25 is required 
asked for the council's coopera­
from each dorm as an insurance 
tion in administering a random 
of campus-wide participation. 
survey to the students on 
This money will be refunded 
.:ampus. This survey would 
when decorations are seen on 

• • • Senate
consist of 69 questions. These 
the hall. 

question would be answerable [continued from page 1 ]
Judging of the contest will 
by a simple true-false, yes-no take place on Oct 19 . from "We are in the process of 

answer. 

3:30 to 5 p.m. Prizes are $125, working out guidelines to be The alcohol program will use $75, and $50. discussed with the Administra­the information collected in HPC Chairman 1 Ellen Dor­tion for an appeals and griev­these sorveys to determine ney announced that Keenan ances procedure," Goodpasterwhat services are needed in this Hall was the recipient of the said. He added that the Faculty area on Jhe Notre Dame Sowder Trophy for September. Senate wanted to set up a campUs. 
Runners-up were Dillon and St. "dialo~ue situation" with the 
"The surveys are anony­Edward's Halls. This award is Admimstration on the issue, mous, stated Pellegrini, based on the activities held by a rather than a ''confrontation "however, students may icl -.ti­dorm and its service functions policy.'' fy their survey by . a oer for the month. Research was another point 
Supretne Court revieUJs judges 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The caused for lower courts nation­penalty law, under which more 
Supreme Court agreed yester­wide by the Supreme Courts than 40 persons have been day to study how much discre­courtroom-access decision last condemned. tion judges have indeciding to July. The Justices will rule on the exclude the public and press validity of the law's requiring from criminal trials. Arguments ~n the Virgin~a juries· to either convict and 
The justices said they will case likely wdl be heard 10 recommend the death sentence review a Hanover, Va. case that January. But the justices left or acquit in cases involving ftrst could clarify the confusion open the possibility that, after degree murder charges. The 
hearing the arguments, they law prohibits juries f~om find­!Dight not rule on the central ing a defendant guilty of a ISSUe. lesser crime. 
To reach and decide the case's --Agree to take a second look merits, the justices first must at Georgia's death penalty law, 
Carter 

rule that they have jurisdiction one of the justices three years
' ' ' 

to do so. ago found to be constitutional. The new case was brought to The justices are going to study
[ continued from page I ] 

the court by lawyers represent­how Georgia courts evaluatedelivering a campaign speech ing two Richmond, VA news­so-called aggravating circum­
for the Massachusetts paper reporters who :we~e stances when determining

Democrat. 

ousted from a murder tnal 10 whether to impose life or deathOn other subjects, Carter: Hanover last September. as punishment.
--declined to state whether he At the trial's start, Judge --Left intact a New Jerseywould debate any Democratic Richard Taylor granted a de­Supreme Court ruling that "MI­

or Republican presidential 

fense lawyer's request and randa" warnings do not have to opponents. 
cleared the courtroom of all be given to persons arrested for --Refused to predict how he spectators. Prosecutors voiced motor vehicle law violationswould fare in the ur,comin~ no objection, and Taylor cited a that could land them in jail. 
Florida non-binding 'straw' S{>ecific Virginia law that gave In voting 6-3 to reject a Newballoting on presidential candi­h1m authority to take such Jersey man's appeal, the j~s­dates. 

action. tices failed to resolve a conflict--Declined to offer any detailed caused by court decisions incomment on the problems ­other states that reached justassociated with allegations of Two of the persons asked to the opposite conclusion. 
cocaine use by Hamilton leave were Richmond news­--Refused to reinstate the only Jordan, his White House chief paper reporters Timothy contempt citation ever issuedof staff. Wheeler and Kevin McCarthy. 

against a U.S. attorney general. 
Carter rei:erated his deter­They and their employer sued The court refused to becomemination to stick with Vice to challenge as unconstitutional 

embroiled in the Socialist
President Walter Mondale as the law used by Taylor. 

Workers Parry's still-{>endinghis running mate in any re-elec­The Virginia Supreme Court $40 million lawsuit agamst thetion bid. There have been last July 9 upheld the trial FBI, a .alit that spawned areports that Carter political judges actio~. 
federal Judge's contempt cita­aides have questioned whether tion against former AttorneyMondale should be part of the · In other matters yesterday, General Griffin Bell. The1980 ticket. the high court took these 
citation was subsequently
The president defended his actions: struck down by a federal ap­decision to wait until Dec. 4 to --Agreed to judge the constitu­peals court. 

announce his campaign plans. tionality of Alabama's death that drew strong reactions from this year," Goodpaster said. 

the faculty. By a very wide ''It will give us lots of food for margin, a majority of respon­thought.'' . dants felt that the present The official final survey re­
Administration values research sults will be published in an ahead of teaching and service. upcoming issue of Notre Dame 
"This may be denied by Report. Hesburgh,'' Goodpast~r · pointed out, "but the taculry perceives it to be the case. The report suggests that we. sho~ld 

Lefty Smith have better commun1cauon between the Administration and the faculty." 
speaks
A gteat majority of faculty also felt that grantsmanship, or the ability to obtain outside 
tonight

funding, was valued more than scholarship and research at Notre Dame. At the same time, Notre D3;me ~ockey Coach the preliminary results showed Lefty Sm1th !'Ill be the featured by a three to one margin, that sp~aker tomght at 9 p.m. at faculty did not ·believe· Notrfi>"~Kntghts ~f Columbus Hall. Dame provided sufficient inter-Everyone ts welcome. nal funding to develop research programs. 
Concerning the issue offaculty retirement, there was a clear 
Management
concensus of opinion that re­
tirement should be determined 
by an individual's contribution 
to department and University 
C'lub meets 
rather than by an arbitrary age It • level. ''This brings up implica­
tions of a substantial nature The Notre Dame Management that we will have to reflect 'Club is sl?onsorins a generalupon,'' Goodpaster said. 

membership meenng, with aIn a similar light, opinion was wine and cheese parry to follow. 
decidedly in favor of the devel­It will be tonight at 8 p.m. in theopment of incentive plans for Bulla Shed. All intersdtedenc~ura~ing early retirement or students are invited to attend.

semi-renrement. 
Nearly all faculty included in the initial report agreed that greater academic seriousness 
Boycott
should be encouraged during the senior year. In particular, senate members commented on 
supporters
the senior death march and the practices senior exemption from ftnals. 

Among other topics address­invited ed by the survey were teacher There will be a meeting of the salaries, the adequacy of librar­South Bend Farm Organizing ies, and the Catholic nature of Committee (FLOC) support and Notre Dame, especially in con­boycott committee at the home nection with hinn~ and tenure. of Olga Villa Ricardo Parra, 
Goodpaster sa1d that the 1338 King Street at 7 p.m. results of the survey, when tonight. Speakers include peo­finalized, would not have any ple who participated in the immediate implications. The strike in Ohio. There will also three--senate sub-committees be a discussion concernin~ will study the results and expansion of the Libby's ana come up with different propo­Campbell's boycott, fundrais­sals over the course ofthe year. ing, and other issue~. . All 
''The most important part is interested persons are 10v1ted. taht the survey will give a clear For further information, contact empiric~ base for senate action 287-3349. 
. . J. '. . . . ..... ,t
·~· ' 
-... • • ~." .... "' • ""' " .. • • ' 0 ... • • .. • • 
.... ' " -• ~ .. I .
I . 

rb1.j,[:l '{I~U--:·)I) ·)·;.J1<·1 f:j"1ld 'Y l•:,i { ftl.> ~-.:1!; ;;_;r.loJ.l• _,,.;,,_ .p. !lh~ rH; "l.J~ ~;!. ..) ',~q._! 
The Observer Extra 
Wednesday, October 10, 1979-~e 7 

Pope's trip
Atn.erica falls in love 
reverses
with John Paul II 
old taboos 
by Michael Lewis their admiration and support Executive News Editor for the first Polish pontiff. 
by Thomas Stritch 
, "I think he's the most marvel­
Professor-American Studies 

They loved him. There is no ous, wonderful man ever," said other way to say it. Margaret Stanely, 76, of Cala-In the September of 1870,
About 10 million Americans donia, MI. "He just seems to The London Times carried a turned out to greet Pope John fit in with the times.'' headline, ''Pius IX Last of the Paul II during his whirlwind, Jeff Misak, 17, of Joliet, IL, Popes." On September 21 six-day tour of the United said, "It seems like when he's Italian troops had occupiedStates. They met him with up there (on the altar) he'd Rome, and the Pope imprisoned cheers, with banners and with rather be clown here enjoying himself in the Vatican Palace. cries of "Long live the Pope!" the people. He's got a lot of Not until Pope Paul VI's trav­
There were some, however, style.'' els, almost a century later, did a who did not share this enthus-These comments were echo­Pope break the bonds of the iasm. Atheist Madalyn Murray ed throughout she day, as the Vatican, except for some brief O'Hair led protestors' in Chi-crowd seemed caught up in the excursions to places in Rome cago and Washington, and Pope's personality. after the Lateran Treaty of 1929 women's groups throughout About 1,500 people miveled signallized that the Popesthe country were frustrated and from Milwaukee to Grant Park. would no longer regard them­dismayed by the pontiffs tradi-Fr. Jerry Thompson, coordina­selves as the rightfulrulers of tional stance that has kept the tor for the Spanish Apostolate the . city of Rome and its priesthood closed to women. there, organized the trip. env1rons. 
But by and large, the United "I think one of the best What a contrast this is with States fell in love with the man things about him that every­the scene today. The confident known as ''the people's Pope.'' body feels is his personalness,'' London Times, the voice of the 
The Observer talked with a Fr. Thompson said. "Even rulers of the then mighty Bri­few of the 1.5 million people though he's touching crowds of tish empire, today goes unpub­who came to the papal Mass millions of people he seems to lished, while Pope John Paul li Friday in Chicago's Grant Park. touchpeople in a very pastoral fills the headlines and the 
And young and old, traditional-airwaves with his triumphantists and modernists expressed personality. Even more striking is the Pope's conquering presence in
Burtchaell comments the United States. If it was unthinkable that the Popes would leave the Vatican, it was beyond the range of the imagin­
ation that one should come to 

the United States, where anti­by Michael Onu(rak justice between nations, no uncreative church experience,'' warm and affirmative applause Popery was the slogan of the Senior Copy Editor plundering of poor peoples, he added. does not generally offer some­nativist political parties who 
protection of the unborn, fund-, Burtchaell responded to the one the best learning exper-hated and feared what they 
·Holy Father addresses tough issues 
.

In his six-day v1s1t to the amental human rights, and fact that the pontiff ostensibly 1ence. " thought were the anti-American United States, Pope John Paul preservation of the family.'' came to the U.S. as a pilgrim in "Ironically, the only person beliefs and tendencies the Pope II spoke out on many rdevanG""'' But· th~ Polish· Church, as search of learning about the who took the Pope at his word fostered. As late as 1924 the theological issues Including Burtchaell points out, is one American church (and conse-· and received him as a pilgrim Eucharistic Congress that Card­pre-marital sex, abortion, artt-which "knows little of trans­quently broadening his ''un­was the sister who welcoming inal Mundelein sponsored in ficial contraception and the formation as does our own." creative theology") by saying: Catholic priesthood as it per-'') ohn Paul II spoke of disci­''This is a possibility, but rains to women. Almost with-pline, frugality and obedience­out exception, the pontiffs all timely, all in need of remarks simply echoed doc-stressing. But to women reli­Hesburgh reflects trines to which the Church has gous who (unlike their Euro­ascribed since long before John pean sisters), are among the Paul's papacy began last year. nation's most effective workers Accordmg to Fr. James T. in prisons, higher education, 
Pontiffhumanizespapacy
Burtchaell, Notre Dame theo-health care, housing, diocesan logy professor this is not un-administration, social work, 

usual. and religous education, he By Theodore M. Hesburgh where Mass is offered in China, the Church of "A Church that struggles spoke of common garb and University President the Immaculate Conception in Peking, originally 
built by Father Metteo Ricci in 1650, andunder totalitarian government parochial schools.'' 

I met Pope John Paul IT for the first time on another photo of the two Chinese priests I had usually breeds a certain kind of Burtchaell particularly allud­September 3rd of this year, about a month ago, met there this Summer and conversed with inchurchman. For one thing, the ed to the Pontiffs remarks The place was his corner office high above Lake· Latin. No question that he would like to bringchurchman has a lot of gristle, made Sunday in Washington at Albano in the hilltop village of Castel Condolfo. Christ's message there especially. I hope he has is wary and canny, and finds the sanctuary of the Immacu­His greeting is warm and friendly. He motions the chance. At least, I said, they treated mewhatever chance he can to gain late Conceptton. At that time, to a chair alongside his desk and sits so close .very kindly and openly and even inrroduced meground back from the violent the Pope mentioned the Carbo­that I could reach out and touch his arm, which I to their colleagues as Shenfu, the priest.
hand of the ruler. He is no lie school system as a tradi­

zealot for change, since all his tiona! place of service for found myself doing while makingapoint. There is Comipg back here I read with new fascination wits are rallied simply to sur-women tn the church. He said one book on the desk between us. No, not a his b~ok on philosophy, "The Acting Person," 
vive, to persevere, to keep what that this and other traditional bible, but the World Atlas. and h1s small book of poems. there is nothing was." areas of service are where He wanted to know exactly where Notre Dame much of religion in his philosophical treatise, bw 
"The Karol Woytyla who women should continue to serve was. Luckily, the Atlas and a city named South it does reveal what he expects of a p~rson: first, came to us as John Paul II is the Church ''faithfully, confid­Bend. I told him we could get him over from that he contribute to whatever he or she bdongs such a churchman," says Burt-ent!y and prayerfully." He had Chicago in a half hour, and gave him a colored to, family, university, country, indeed, the 
chaell. earher reiterated the traditional aerial view of the campus, showing him where world. Solidarity is his favorite word for this. 
Burtchaell feels that the most view that women are not suited we could turn out a hundred thousand for Mass Als~, he insist~ that a p~rson sh_ould not be predominant factor which af-for the Catholic priesthood. on the main mall. afra1d to be 10 oppostt1on, lovmg, caring fects the Pope is his experience Besides the issue of women Unfortunately, he was booked and overbooked constructive when that is called for. Tw~ under the communist, anti-and the Catholic priesthood, for every moment of his visit. However, while qualities keep some from being real persons: Catholic regime in Poland. It is Burtchaejl also commented on he could not come to visit us, he wanted to know noninvolvement, standing on the sidelines, this experience of constant John Paul II's role as pilgrim abour Notre Dame, especially the students. I being neutral in the face of moral crises; 
must confess to some Immodesty and hyperbole secondly, senselessly accepting things as they
struggle to retain the status and seeker of world justice. quo, as opposed to a struggle ''This good and gracious man in in telling about Notre Dame men and women, are without trying to make them what they ought 
about your faith, your prayer, your loving to be. His visas to Mexico, Poland, Ireland, and
for somethtng new, which the white has aJWealed most tdi­Pope faced in Poland,and which ingly to the Jews and Protestants service, your openness to what is true and good here certainly demonstrate that he is not such a 
and beautiful, the promise of your lives for a person, that he practices what he elaborated as adominates his theological be-ana listlessly believing of the 
liefs today. land, as an attractive prophet of better tomorrow. I told him he must speak to the budding philosopher. Both the individual The pontiff, in Burtchaell's justice," Burtchaell said. young people of America. It would be his first person and the humafl condition loom large for 
homily in Boston. him. Justice and peace and joy are important for 
mind, embodies the "resilient "Only the Catholics will find and stubborn durability of the measure in their respect; for his We talked during a fleeting half hour of many one and for all, both to create and to eniov. Polish Catholics,'' As such a statements within the Christian things. But particularly he wanted to talk about representative he, quite natur-community were grounded on China, that land where one-fourth of humanity ally, calls for "civil freedoms, an unreflective theology and an lives, I gave him a picture of the only church 


--~----------------­
-
Pope's visit 
means profit 
for some 

By john McGrath Senior Staff Reporter Popr .)ohn Pdul TSh~rtr.~t tfi·, .· 
CHICAGO -To most people, Pope John Paul's visit to Chica­go w'as a solemn yet joyous religinus evem. Bur to others, it nwant something else--the chance to make money. 
As soon a~ rumours about the pontiffs American visit were verified, groups ranging from poster j1t'ddlers to the Chicago police ceparrment shifted their operations into high gear to be ready for the Pope's arrival. 
Starting at 7 a.m. the day of the Pope's Mass at Chicago's lakefront Grant Park, countless 

The Pope's visit offered promoters and peddlers a unique chance to cash in on the
vendors, ranging in age from 8 

religious fervor which-swept ahead ofthe Holy Father wherever he traveled. [photo by john
or 9 to their mid-70s, started 
Macorl
taking up strategic positions in 
·<',i''\t.
the downtown Lonp area. They 
. A~~
idn't come early to see the 
·~ ' 
--they came early to hawk 
·... "'i~
thetr wares. At first, visitors were amusing themselves, walking the streets

'r 
i 
of the area, and noticing the 

r 
various items for sale. But asr the day wore on, the number of
r
, both sightseers and vendors , increased, so did the tension , between the people scurrying to , get a place among thf' 1.4 , million pilgrims who had gone·, to see the pontiffs Mas~. and , the people selling on the cor­
, ners. 
, By mid-afternoon, the indul­, gent--and those with a full purse--could "buy something
r 
to remember the Pope's vtsit hy" on every streetcorner and at various location in between. 
On one stretch of Michigan ~ve., one of the city's main arteries near Grant Park, this reporter made note of the following momemos for sale: "Pope Scopes," makeshift cardhoard periscopes ;mprint­ed with the pontiffs symbol and image; papal flags. papal harmer, papal pennants, papal humper stickers, at least four different varieries of posters in some way dealing with the Pope. Prices ranged from $1 for a bumper sticker to$) for a poster. 
And if those items dido' t suit your fancy, other vendors were more than happy to sell you papal keychains, necklaces, and 

Pope john Paul II am·ves by motorcade Sunday morning at
special edition newspapers. 

fieldhouse in Washington where he delivered a speech to the,
The only group more visible These students from Mishawake Marian High School, 
and scholars. [photo by Tom jackman] 

than the pilgrims or the ven­representee/ only one of many groups of Catholic yout/J dors were the 4,000members of groups whzch traveled to Chicago to join in the celebration of the Chicago Police Department, the papal Mass on Friday. [photo by john Macor] all outfitted in dress uniforms and positioned about as closely as the street hawkers. Sgt. James Clarke was station­ed ncar the park. As he looked -­over the throngs of people Murray O'Hair, and some larger, but Chicago police de­the loop area as quickly as building overlooking the altar, beginning to mass on the green trouble with overzealous ven-cided to limit the number of possible. Line of buses were and camera tripods bristled· field below his vantage point, dors. outlets to those normally pro­parked bumper to bumper for from the rooftop. he took a moment to reflect on O'Hair was guickly provided vided by contrators to the city several miles on the southern Shortly after 6 p.m., as the the size of the crowd. police protectton after some park district. end of the park near Soldier pontiffconcluded the Mass, the "l 'm sure there's been no other verbal exchanges took place Perhaps more eyecatching Field, but since automotive huge exodus began. Police had crowd like this one," he said. among members of her delega­than any of these measures to traffic was restricted in the esttmated that it would take rwo .'The crowd here and those tion and some people in the assist the crowd was the pre­downtown area, traffic jams to three hours to'disperse the lined up along the mot<)rcade crowd. Twenty vendors were sence of 1 ,400 portable toilets, were tolerable. crowd from the area. route have only been compared. arrested for trying to hawk set up along the edge of the The Pope's visit was a media Hundreds · of thousands of to the McArthur· (Gen. Doug-merchandise inside ·the park, park near the commuter rail field day, Surrounding the pilgrims walked slowly back las'McArthur's visit ro Chica-comrary to city regulations. lines. 15-foot high yellow and white towards the transit stations-­go after World \'far II) motor-To handles any emergencies, "We've been here since 2 papal altar were an assortment most laden with papal mo­cade. ·• A roral of rim-e million the city coordinated efforts to a.m.. " one of the workers of towers, scaffolds, and truck­menros, and almost all wearing pnsons rurnl'd our--throughout c-;tahlish several types of installing the toilets said, mounted cranes cradling came­-rh~ obligatory papal button--as tlw rit} --for r hat visit. ~ assistance in the park. Red "Some of us guys have been ra crews competing to bring a few paddlers, trying to make a 
working 21 hours straight on their viewers the best shot of last minute sale, screamed of
:\notlwr officer. stationed on Cross officjals set up stations tlw opp•>site side of the park, around the periphery of the moving these johns in from the Pope. At least fjve televi­reduced prices, from the street 
construction sites throughout sion stations carried the event corners.
said. ·· Jhere hasn't been any-area. at least two tent hospitals thing like this since the riots were available. Illinois Nation­the city--we'r~ ,about as fired up live, in addition to the three John Paul's visit to Chicago's here in the sixties.·' al Guard troops manned a as we can be. major networks. center city was over, and while 
Whrle admitting that the force number of military ambulances Transportation in and out of Reporters and photographers most people expressed feelings would "he tired," Sgt. Clarke stationed on access roads the city was reasonably well from newspapers throughout of spiritual satisfaction and 
said he expected no trouble--thoughout the area. handled. The South Shore the nation scoured the throngs fulfillment, happy vendors were and he was right. The only Over 50 portable concession Railroad, and the Chicago Re­of people gathered in the wet seen gathering their money and gional Transit Authority both grass of Grant Park. Press. what was left of their stock

incidents that were reported stands were also located involved the appearance of throughout the park. The added extra trains and cars to headquarters was on the .top heading home, fulfilled mone: 
help visitors get into and out of floor of a high-rise apartment tarily.
atheist spokesperson Madalyn number would have been much 







Obviously delighted with the response ofthe. 1.4 mil!ion people gathered before him in Chicago's Grant fark, the Holy Father offers hzs greetzng on the steps ofthe papal altar. [photo by ] ohn Macor] 

ave 


Friday 's eno rmous crowd demandf!d special measures from Chicago authon'ties. Here, one of the 4,000 policemen assigned to Catholic University students hung the papal Mass keeps a.n ey~ on some of the 1,400 portable tozlets this banner outside ofa dorm on Sunday. moved into Grant Park for Fnday 's event. [photo by john Macor] [photo by Tom jackman-] 
• • Taboos 
Chicago, which ended up in 
Soldier Field, was thought to be 
daring, and the anti-Catholic­
ism stimulated by the AI Smith 
campaign for the presidency 
four years later still hurts in 
recollection for those of us who 
remember it. 
What has made the Papacy 
so exciting to the contemporary 
sensibility? Nobody knows the 
answer to this question, any 
more than we know why just a 
few years ago young people 
began to go barefoot. Except in 
their mystery, the rwo pheno­
mena are probably unrelated. 
The charisma of r~cent Popes 
is certainly not created by the 
mass media, and affords an 
exceflent refutation to the 
cynics who th(nk the media can 
do anything. The whole world 
leaped with delight at the 
irresistbile warmth and charm 
of Pope John XXIII. The media 
that made this charm known 
throughout the world dido' t 
know or care that. he was the 
maker of the modern Church, 
the man who changed the silent 
mysterium of the ancient lit­
urgy into something like a noisy 
public meeting. 
] oho's successor, Pope Paul 
VI, managed the difficult task 
of makin~ this great change go. 
His ability at doing this is 
becoming increasingly recogn­
ized, but he lacked the nerve­
tingling impact of his predeces­
sor and his present successor. 
The rousing welcome Pope Paul received in New York underscored the election of John Fitzgerald Kennedy ..in making it clear that U.S. Cath­olics were at least generally, if not universally, regarded as first class citizens without handicap. What a contrast with the Notre Dame students of 1924 who battled the Ku Klux Klan in the streets of South Bend. 
During the reigns of Pius X, Leo XII and the early years of Pius X I unti! 1908, the Amer­i<;an Church was technically a missionary coun~ry, under the Congregation of the Propa­ganda, rather than the direct administration of the Vatican. Indeed, there is reason to think that the suspicions of non­Catholic Americans had some foundation in the long contro­versy about ''Americanism,'' which was condemned by Leo 
XIII. This looked like a defeat for the Ameris:;an bishops and their following who felt that the Church and American demo­cracy were beautifully marched in spirit, as de Tocqueville noted back in 1835. But this was only a temporary setback, and in retrospect perhaps a healthy one. 
For one thing, it rallied American Catholics to renewed trust and loyalty in the papacy. Stung by the Papal t:ebuke, they turned to reassurance to the Holy See of their devotion and support, which they made mani fest in many ways a~ the American Church grew in wealth and numbers. Many thought that this reassurance was overdone, serltimentalized1 and our of proportion, in certaiI quarters, among(_lhem many seminaries and con'fents. 
But the most important ga•n I was the gradual sensin on dl sides that the American tishops , who led-the ''Americanism' 'Imovement, notably Archbishop John Ireland of SL Paul, we~e in the main right . .The time h~~d come, by 1900, wben boch Church and state .were betteri. 
off for their &,ep!l~Qp.n... . Demo­cracy was on the.Ql)r~p every­where, and t.he spirit;pf equal­
.l 

~~~~~~~~~~~~--~----~--~~--~------------~~--~{ 


The Observer Extra, Wednesday, October 10, 1979-page 10 
York Review. And this incred­Everyone concerned knows the promise. The Church faces ible feat of becoming more high level of the Polish achieve­many problems, some special to Catholic as time goes on, of ment in drama and film, and her, some common to all reli­ity, liberty and rising expecta­self-assetion before all the in­the even higher level of con­gion. It is hard to lfnow what to tions of the common man were struments of domination the temporary Polish music. do. The Pope has already 
capturing the hearts of the Soviets know so well how to John Paul II looks and acts as indicated that he will be no west. If this was Americanism,. employ, has been accompanied if he is the product of just such extreme liberal in doctrine or as the Pope said at the conclu­by an even more incredible a culture. He is a phtlosopher discipline. Perhaps this is sion of his condemnation, then flowering of Polish culture. and a poet quite naturally, as if right, perhaps Pius IX was it was the wave of the future, Recent Polish mathematics and these were the normal activities right. The Catholic Church and the Church had better get philosopohy, my faculty friends of a normal m!ln, although he suffered much less from the with it. Pope John Paul II, m those disciplines tell me, are comes from Aa humble back­impact of Darwinism than did despite his conservatism, excellent, perhaps the best ground. That background did the Protestant Churches. May­seems very much a product of anywhere. Father Soleta, the not prevent him from becoming be under John Paul's leader­
this future, perhaps this comes Pastor of Sacred Heart church, perhaps the best educated pon­ship it can weather the protean 
in good part from his Polish who knows Polish literature tiff of the century. Yet he is Marxism that surrounds it. If background. well, tells me that contempor­intensely masculine, and in­anybody can do it, it would Poland is surely the most ary Polish fiction and poetry are tensely passionate, as Cameron seem that the stalwart and 
• remarkable nation of recent of a very high level--and, says . sensitive Papa Polacco can. 
times. Hacked and harrassed incidentally, that the Pope's All these and more will he for centuries by its great neigh­own verse is quite respectable. need to be the great Pope of his bors, it underwent a time of horror and terror .under German occupation in World War II. 
• • Taboos 

• • . Issues 
Under the even harsher domin­ation of the USSR it has somehow managed to retain its n·ational consciousness and its Catholic character--they are almost inseparable, as J. M. him to an assembly of 4,000 
women religous as their elected Cameron,aformer visitjng Pro­leader, asked him with quietfessor at Notre Dame, pointed dignity to discontinue barringout, in the best article I have generous and capable women
seen about John Paul II in the May 3, 1979, issue of The New .. from access ro some of the 
church's ministries,'' said Burt­chaell. 
Sr. M. Theresa Kane, to whom Burtchaell referred, wel­comed the pontiff to the sanc­
• • • Love 

tuary of the Imaculate Concep­tion on Sunday. 
"I call upon you to listen with "That's why I look upon him compassion and to hear the call as the representative; he's tak­of women who comprise half of and kmd of personal way.'' in~ God's place today," she humankind," Sr. Kane told the 
"He's not an aloof kind of satd pontiff. leader," Fr. Thompson con­"Of course," she continued, ''As women, we have pon­tinued, "but yet he's a man ''I suppose there are some dered upon (your words of with great leadership quali­things he doesn't know, but as dignity and reverence). Our 
ties." far as I'm concerned, he knows contemplation leads us to state. that the church, in its struggle
This personal contact with it. I.~ anybody knows it, he to be faithful to its call forpeople of all age groups was does. 

reverence and dignity for allreadily apparent in Chtcago. On a sleepy ride home on the p~r.sons, must ~e~pond by pro­Young and old people from all South Shore railroad, this vtdthg the posstbtltty of womenover the city performed in an area's pilgrims agreed that the as persons being included in allethnic festival during the hours early morning rise and seven ministries of our church,'' shebefore the Pofe's Mass. hour wait were well worth added.
A group o women students attending the Grant Park Mass. 

"Some thought her rude, but.
from St. Joseph's College in Martha Piezak, of South her words to him were of thatRrosselaer, IN, got within ten Bend was disappointed because same courage as few

fett of the pontiff when the · she thought the crowd lacked his, a 
months earlier, to the leaders of para! motorcade drove into .. enthusiasm . .But she attribpted. 
Poland," Burtchaell stated.
Grant Park. this to the Mass," which' she John Paul II visited his native They ·held up a banner read­thought was too formal and Poland this past summer.

ing "St. Joseph Students Wel­poorly organized. 
come .. the Young People's She had nothing but praise, however, for John Paul.
Pope. 
And 65 students from Mish­· "I would say that he's the awaka Marian High School Catholic Church's answer to 

, Papacy
brought two banners displaying Billy Graham. Billy Graham I 
' 

the school name and colors. has a charasmatic personality, Laurie Benig of Chicago said, but I think that John Paul is just "He's got fantastic charisma. as effective. And up to this man's heart 
we a

He affects all people, it seems point haven't had Pope and from the heart's center the history of stones 
that could come out and reach

every age group. He loves the Of his poems, I liked best the one called grows large in the layers of earth. 
people." she said.
" 

children, but he really gets (Inciden­"InspiratiOn." One can understand him as a And inmengrows the equilibrium through to the young people:'' tally, the Pope's homily in young man in reading it. Poems grow out of which love learns tHrough anger. 
"He seems very firm wtth Chicago centered on evangeli­reality deeply experienced. Picture young Karol them." she continued. "He's zation). Wojtyla as a student at the University, reading "Neither is ever exhausted in man, not telling them that they're In this country John Paul literature, writing plays, acting in them. Then ever ceases in the shoulder's tension, right and their parents are truly seemed like "the people's suddenly war comes and he finds himself a slave in the heaks hidden gesture. wrong. He's telling them that Pope." Traditional Catholics in laborer, mining and splitting huge rocks in a They partake of each other, fulfilling each other, you· re in control of your own Grant Park approved of his quarry outside Cracow: raised by a lever which joins movement and 
body and you have to start stance on birth control, abor­thought deciding how you're going to go tion, and women entering the "Work starts within, outside it takes such space in an unbreakable circle. with you life. And they love priesthood. More liberal Cath­that it soon seizes hands, then the limits of him for it." olics applauded what they cal­breath. ''If from afar you want to enter and stay in man 
The pontiff showed his love led "changes," citing John Look -· your will strikes a deep bell in stone, you must merge th'ese two forces into a language 
for children several times dur­Paul's travels, his raport· with thought strikes certainty, a peak simple beyond words ing his visit, hugging children youth and his support for both for heart and for hand. (your speech must not break at the lever's and picking up several youths Catholicism in communist coun­tension: 
to ride on his "Popemobtle." tries. ''For this certainty of mind, this certainty of eye, the fulcrum of anger and love). 
He also, however, gave teen And everyone loved the for this vertical line Then no one will ever tear You agers tough talk in New York, man's personality. you pay with a generous hand. out from the center of man.'' where he urged them to turn But America isthe homeofa The stone yields you its stre~gth, It may be difficult to think of a future Pope
troubled Catholic Church. and man matures throu~h work
away from escapism through merging anger and love within himself. But drugs and sex and instead Most Americans disagree with which inspires him to d1fficult good." then, a man does not shuck off his inner '·turn to Christ." Church doctrine bannine: birth A great phrase, "difficult good" --what real thoughts and experiences, become a different 
But instead of the jeers many · controi and divorce, according good isn't difficult? But then he continues to say man, just because he becomes a priest, a parents have received for the to a recent New York Times what the difficult good really is. He, a young Bishop, a Cardinal, or a Pope. . . . 
same lecture, John Paul was poll. And the issue of women in man wrenched from his career, working for his We have been seeing a Pope VISit Amenca. greeted with cheers. the priesthood is not going to go country's conquerers, hard labor instead of But we are also begmning to understand a 
In Grant Park, Vivian J~seph away. studies, is constantly moved to anger. What remarkable man. In a very real sense, thanks to of Fort Wayne summed 1t up The Church in America is still young person at times isn't? But then, the real modern communications, be is humanizing and this way. "I think he under­faced with challenges, and still Christian test occurs. He must love his enemies, demythologizing the papacy which is not a stands all phases, like the must work to win people's even the Nazis (later the communists). monarchy, but a deeply spintual and moral act teenagers, the elderly people, minds. The poem continues on this theme: of pastoral love, transcending anger at the the small children, the nch, th(" But for at least six days last human condition today, trying desperately to 
• 

poor. I just think he under­week, the Polish Pope won ''This inspiration will not end with hands. transform the world, to achteve justice and stands everything.'' American hearts. Down to stone centers it descends through peace. 
University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh is asked for his reaction immediately after the Pope's address Sunday morning at Catholic University. [photo by Tom jackman] 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, 'october 10, .1979-page 11 
Torrential rains delay Series 
BALTIMORE (AP) -The opening came o£ the 1979 World Series between Balti­more Orioles and Pittsburgh Pirates was postponed by a torrential rain storm Tuesday night. 

It was the first time the opening · . game of the seven-game Series was called off because of rain. Baseball Commissioner Bowie Kuhn called the game at 8:33 
p.m. EDT and it wasrescheduled for Wednesday night. Game Two of the Series will be played Thursday night, and the Series then shifts to Pittsburgh Friday night, as previously scheduled. 
The travel day originally set for Thursday was eliminated. 
Gloomy, dark skies hung low over Baltimore most of Tues­day, and the rain began at about 5 p.m. -31/z hours before the scheduled start of play. 
Tarps covered the Memorial Stadtum infield, but puddles quickly developed in left and right field. 
The condition of the field already had been a concern because of the National Football 
· League game between the Bal­timore Colts ~d New York Jets, played ·sunday. The Colts-] ets game was the fifth footbal contest played this sea­son at Memorial Stadium. 
The rainout was the first for a World Series game since 1975, when the sixth game between the Boston Red Sox and Cincin­nati Reds was ostponed two days by the weather in Boston. 
Fans, many of them wearing yellow rain slickers and carry­mg multi-colored umbrellas, arrived at the ballpoark and waited out the storm. About 30 minues before the scheduled start, they cheered the arrival of the Bird, a large feathered. creature who stood under an unbrella, leading cheers. But even the Orioles' mascot was forced to seek shelter from the ram. 
All the steady rain continued to fall, the scoreboard flashed a cheerful ''Hello' in capital let­ters to the fans. Later, the message was changed to ''The Baltimore Orioles and Pitts­burgh Pirates Welcome You to Game One of the 1979 World Series.'' 
It was the 26th postponement in World Series history -25 
rainouts  and  one  because  of  
cold weather.  
Both  teams  said  they  would  

stay with the pitchers and lineups they had originally an­nounced for Tuesday night. That means Bruce Kison for the Pirates against Baltimore's Mikes Flanagan. 
Kison posted a 13-7 record during the regular season, but was particularly effective in September and October. He won four games last month for the Pirates, pushing his eight year career record for Septem­ber to 23-6. He has never lost in October, with a career 4-0 record for this month. 

Flanagan was the top winner in the majors this season, with a 23-9 record and the Orioles had hoped he could neutralize Pitts­burgh's left-handed hitters-­Omar Moreno, Willie Stargell and Dave Parker. The Pirates has switched to right-handed swingers Bill Robinson in left field and Steve Nicosia catch­ing, in place of left-banders 
John Milner and Ed Ott. 
• • . Irish 
[continued from page 16] 
Dame goalkeepers, didn't have to make a save. The shutout, credited to Cullather (who star­ted his first game since being injured in the Indiana contest), was his third of the season and 
the ftfth  of the ·year  for  the  
Irish.  
Kevin  Lovejots  second  hat  

trick of the season led a host of Irish point-getters. The Irish displayed some nice passwork in the first half in building up a 6-0 margin. Mike Mai opened the scoring and Sami Kahale ao:l Bill Murphy added to lolejoy's triad. 
Murphy and Kahale also scored in the second half, as did Brian McCurrie, Jim Stein and Steve Kraemer. Assists were credited to Murphy, McCurrie, Kahale(2), Mai(2), Lovejoy and 
Jay Schwartz. The Insh are now 9-6-1. 
Acareer in law­
without law school. 
After just three months of study at The Institute for Paralegal Training in excitiJlg Philadelphia, you can have a stimulating and rewarding career in law or business ­without law school. · 
As a lawyer's assistant you will be performing many of the duties traditionally handled only by attorneys. And at The Institute for Paralegal Training, you can pick one of seven different areas of law to study. Upon completion of your training, The Institute's unique Placement Service will find you a responsible and challenging job in a law firm, bank or corporation in the city of your choice. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training is the nation's first and most respected school for paralegal training. Since 1970, we've placed over 2,500 graduates in over 85 cities nationwide 
If you're a senior of high academic standing and looking for an above average career, contact your Placement Office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on: 
Wed. Oct. 17,1979 
The • Institute , ;~r~' 235 South 17th Street for ~~f! •1 , Philadelphia, PA 19103 Paralegal ~ · · . • (215) 732-6600 
111
Training® '•*'• • I -~J
~-"E'!:~ AC-0035 
operated by Para-legal, Inc. 
Approved by the American Bar Association. 
PITTSBURGH CLUB 
Fall Break bus sign-ups Sunday, Oct. 14 7:00 pm LaFortune 
Buses will leave ND/SMC: t------Sunday, Oct. 21 9:00 am 
Buses will return:-.---------1 
t-----Sunda Oct. 28 1:00 m 
Registered Nurses 
South Bend Osteopathic Hospital offers you rewarding and satisfying career in a warm , friendly atmosphere conducive to your 
· personal and''t>rofessional growth. 
South Bend Osteopathic Hospital provides · medical, surgical,. obstetrical, pediatric , 
coronary and intensive care nursin_g with emphasis on truly comprehensive and personalized health care directed to the 
® 
whole person For further information

')! MILLER IN BUCKETS IS 
please contact

It THE ONLY WAY TO GO! 
PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT 
======~==================~ 

UNITED WAY at N. D•percent 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 








AL BA BP CR CV Dl FA Fl FL "GR HC HO KE LE LY MO PA SE SO ST WA ZA 
PARTICIPATION CHART 



; l_,hiJI ." ...''I~Jl •.J•t·.;:~l..".l! ...IJ: ,t.J,l(]'a Jf,d ,_.}}t,lJ.;..~rtl-..~o1' f"J..'l"ll-1. Ht.,,• ,...._.,, ~ t''" H 11' Ll•1o.!'-f~ ~ '\q.t ,.. -· ~--, \ , '' "•'1, • ; "' ') ', 
I .'"•"jl\k; t1~)J( :dJ d}fl")");,:~f_. .'! ;·!'\If•.•.• clr"•P. ::11 (lWCr\j -~'1:;' 1 '1 ~,,.·:·!T~·T:H. j,i".. •1JFJ"...-~J ?rf".flr, '· .... ~-·· J>""""' .... ~--·----·· .............""' ........ ..,. ....... ~...........-................. .,...,. ... __.:.. .• --.....\,... ,..""' ... ~--.. ,. .......................,..,. .... "'oo ._ ..................... ~-...................._ ....... -....... ~ ........... , ..... _ ........ -............. ___ ............................. _ ... .,.. ...__ ..LJ· 
• · • ,.. 11o:.,; 't.....-~...,.........:-t:4."-:ltl~~,._~;,..,.:..,.,.-411~-...•'.,_~.,. -.:-.•• 'f-ll~ll'·a •·.tT4r-l·'l · • •• 
Features 
Wednesday, October 10, 1979-page 12 

SDT: Falling of/pointe • • • Kate Farrell 


You have to admire the boldness and innovation of the Southold Dance Theatre. At a time when most companies tend to play it safe and stick with one particular style of dance, Southold is experimenting with everything from Tchaikosky and toe shoes to Dolly Parton and high-heeled neon sandals--not bad for a company whose members all work full time in a variety of demanding non-dancing professions. But in dance, as in science, trial results in error as well as breakthrough, and Saturday's uneven performance at the Century Center's Bendix Theatre revealed a company whose passion for experimentation seems to run ahead of its technical capabilities. 
The best piece of the three act program came in the middle of the second act, when Southold Dance Theatre II, a group of "apprentice dancers" performed "My Brother", the story of the persecution, disgrace and final triumph of a "rebel". Set to the music of Simon and Garfunkel and Peter, Paul and Mary, "My Brother" is choreographed for a corps of five dancers and a male and female soloist. The Crowd, consisting of Glynis Benbow, Mary De Celles, Francine Eckrich, Carolyn Fermoyle and Cindy Pacifico, performed the best ensemble dancing of the night. Smooth and well-disciplined, they danced without any breaks and showed off some really interesting choreography by Chris Rodda. The two soloists, Rebel Scott Ostheimer (the only male performer) and the Woman Elinor Allen (a strikingly beautiful dancer) were also very impressive, especially during their pas de deux which they danced with a very lyncal tenderness. 
A Studen·t··Gets 
an Early Start 
"Good afternoon, I'm Joe Joyce. And now here's more of America's favorite music." The friendly, yet businesslike voice is familiar to listeners of WJVA-AM 1560, a local country music station. It belongs to 
Joe Joyce a Notre Dame senior majonng in Marketing, who has been working as a WJ VA disc jockey since June. 
Joe's career in radio began at WSND. "I always wanted to be a disc jockey," he says. "I used to listen to the radio in the car and I would be the DJ. So I auditioned for WSND and they hired me to do "o)die" shows. I gradually got more and more time. Then I walked in here (WJVA) one day, made a tape and got hired." 
From three to seven Monday through Saturday afternoon, Joe is on the air. However, his job consists of much more than simply getting the music to his listeners. Before his show begins each day he tapes commerctals and public service announcements. Once on the air, he must answer the telephone and keep track of how often each song is to be played. "Everyone has to do something besides being on the air.'' It is obvious that he loves the work. "I want to make it my career. It's a 
good st,~rt, but I want to get my 
degree. 
Joe feels right at home at WJVA. Whether fiddling with sound effects in the production room or hunch~d· 
Marcia Gura 
over the microphone spewing forth one liners and double entendres, he is confident of his ability to do his job well. Yet, h'e also realizes his lilmitations and that he is still a student of the art of radio. 
When asked how much control he has over what is played, he replied "Not too much-which is good for me right now because this is the first time I've been exposed to country music. I don't mind it; the songs don't have any deep meaning -they get right to the point.'' 
Besides Joe's interest in furthering his career, he has other reasons for working at WJVA. "I'd like to see the station grow, I'd like to help it out. The station's audience is made up of the working people of South Bend and we gear the programming to them." 
Before another question can be asked, Joe has resettled his ear· phones on his head and is again bent over the microphone. He runs through the weather and introduces the next song, pushing tapes in and pulli•.1g them out, singmg along with the music. 
He takes a swig of Pepsi and sits sti!(l for just a moment before resuming his constant motion as he tries tol build a career. "I can be successful'as a DJ ifI make it in a big enough -market. I want to get into radio management, •not T.V. r_ight now. In ' tive years I have no tdea what I'll b~ doing. That's what I like about it." 

The eerie and menacing ''Arches'' , choreogra.{lhed by Bonnie Bo.ilini Baxter, was another successful experiment. The evenmg's program describes it as "three personalities coping with the known, explorin~ the unknown, being refreshed and encouraged by new encounters in an exctting space, and as the experience intensifies, attempting to find a resolution.'' As the choreography progresses, you find yourself reminded of fledgling robins attempting to leave the nest: as two of the three dancers would dance together in the background, the other would dance a solo on the forestage, only to rejoin the others at the end of the passage, as if searching for comfort and support after a difficult first flight. The timid-yet-defiant mood was heightened by some very effective music by Ernest Bloch. 
"Quiet Storm" and "Concerto Mago" never quite fell into place. "Quiet Storm", composed for a large corps, is a: work with genuine potential: a finger-snapping score by Bob James, and some breezy, bouncy choreography by Barbara Doepke Potuck. But a jazzy ballet calls for big smiles, all-out dancing and strong, confident projection, and Saturday's performance suffered from opening-concert-of-the-season jitters. The jumps were low, the stretches timid, the necessary stage presence absent, and the corps work ragged and irregular. Nevertheless, "Quiet Storm" is a great piece, and as soon as Southold smooths the rough spots, it will be a plus for the repertoire, and a send'em home happy crowd pleaser. 
''Concerto Mago'' suffers from a choreographic-musical mismatch. The piece is choreographed for four dancers, and the musical score moves extremely quickly, much too quickly to be danced by such a large group. The combination leaves you with the feeling that there are too many dancers on stage, and that the work might flow better if it was redone for two. 
The two "classical" ballets, "Pour La Danseuse" and "Three for Three" revealed the company's weaknesses. Right now, Southold just does not have the technique to perform interesting classical dance. The choreography of "Pour La Daneuse", created on Tchaikovsky's Concerto in B Flat Minor and composed for a female soloist, was much too low-key for such a dramatic piece of music, and just fell flat.' "Three for Three", a work of three waltzes for three dancers, featured utterly lifeless music by Erik Satie, and equally insipid choregraphy by Nathalie Levine of the St. Louis Metropolitan Ballet. The only work done on pointe, the piece posed serious technical problems for the dancers, who were visibly stru~gling to hold their balance and did fall off pointe several times. Southold mtght be better off putting these works aside, at least temporarily. 
The much-touted "WJVA", Act III of the three act performance, provided an ambiguous finale for an ambiguous program. The story of the joys and sorrows of some rural American characters, set to the hit tunes of such country-western greats as Johnny Cash and Hank Williams, "WJVA" boasted some very funny and touching skits and combined then with a few duds. Jill Engel Tulchinsky painted a convincing portrait of a listless, drifting "Cafe Cowgirl" to the tune of ''I'm So Lonesome I Could Cry". Marcia Heintzburger (a marvelous character actress) and Sue Haas had the audience rolling in the aisles with their "Dueling Banjoes" skit. But some of the other sketches--"Southern Nights", "Blue Bayou" were dull, and the constant repetition of the call letters of the local country and western radio station was extremely irritating. 
While Saturday's program was not an unqualified success, it did give an interesting look at a dynamic and innovative company. Southold has the imagination to be a first rate dance company, and with time and training, their technique should catch up to their ambiuon. If Saturday's performance exposed some rather embarrassing weaknesses, it also displayed real promise. 
Neighborhood Roots 
1979 ... 
The goal of the "Neighborhood Roots Program" is to give students and faculty an opportunity to learn about the location, ethntcity, and uniqueness of South Bend's neigh­borhoods. The scope of the program, however, is not limited to South Bend. Professor Thomas Broden, one of the Program's task force members said, ''Our goal is to give those who participate an understand­ing of the diversity and the values present in central ctty neighborhoods and other neighborhoods. We hope that it will give everyone a height­ened awareness of the importance of 
preserving residential neighbor­hoods; particularly central city neigh­borhoods which are the most threat­ened." 
The first Neighborhood Roots pro­grams were held during the 1977-78 school year and were very successful. 
The Roots program involved 450 students that first year. 
This year, Neighborhood Roots is co-sponsored by the Institute for Urban Studies, the Center for Exper­iential Learning, the Notre Dame Student Government, the Saint Mary's Student Government, and the Notre Dame Economic, Theology, and Government Departnments. 
''The cooperative nature of this sponsorship is indicative of the widespread support and interest in this program,'' said Prof. Thomas R. Swartz, a~sociate professor of Econo-
Continued on next page 
• -·~ .. -· ,.,.. ,. .. • '~..,.,.. o. ~ .1 J. ,JIJ.,., 1t...1.. 

... · · · ..... '\...r ...1 ..... ..., ,., ·~·~ .,..... •-··~'' · ··~.~)_,.,.\ ...~\-\· -..~'\..: '-';_,'~~ ~<: ... •'::..~\\~=-~~.wo\~' -.·.:.. ·,\\1·~;~j'~~·)i,J~-....~.q·:v\~ ':.it~~,: :)·;(.~~>! !-·:')~J:i-~'").1:1.·1--: ... ;. ·-.·,t ·;1;J • 
. 1.,~:.: .'.' : '(\'.~" \,,.:,.' ·< ·.t·l·.l"l ·,1. ;·,,,<:'.,·· ·.-·.~\\ \S, ···~·~.\'-.A·' •,·~;•'.-'\ , ..;..... (~··-.· .. -.-~-.. -....,~-~~-~·...,-., ·• ... , . ._ ••.·~-.:,:_,~..;..., ·"·":'Pj .,_,·..z.......l:~:.:.,."Y'::t..•..n:,:,~~·..~..;w.;.~N :~ ~;·~~·> ...:;~.;p.,..,~i:.:iii~':.i:i#$...\.:....-~::i~;·~~~&~Q--:.~a_..,.~-;_U--:.'-·-~-..;~;x,"!_·.~;--,... t:-i...,_.. ~:,:...:.~'~""l..'A-l:.i."'-...:.., :~~'::J-.....·'ll·..\ 
The Observer FEATURES Wednesday, October 10, 1979-page 13 
At Saint Mary's 


Tomorrow is Founders Day at/Saint Mary's, during which the college will celebrate its 135th birthday. Founder's Day is fun-filled with breakfast in bed, a historical picture exhibit, a uniform revue, a hot-air balloon ride, and a formal dinner followed by a special presentation and reception. 
Saint Mary's College has an interesting historical beginning. In 1843, four Sisters ofthe Holy Cross came from LeMans, France at the request of Reverend Edward Sorin to aid the priests and Brothers of the Holy Ctoss in education. In 1844, the Sisters opened a motherhouse, novitiate, and academy for young ladies in Bertrand, Michigan which is 10 miles north of Notre Dame. In 1855, .the school was transferred to its present site. 
In 1903, Holy Cross Hall was dedicated. The artificial lake was added in 1905. The next structure was LeMans Hall, erected in 1925. Alumnae Centennial Library was completed in 1942. McCandless and Regina Halls were not competed until 1966, and Madeleva Hall was dedicated in 1968. 

LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's. Construction on this buzlding ended in 1925 [Photo courtesy Saint Mary's Archives]. 
There are many "fun facts" to be found in the early days of Saint Mary's College. In the Annual Catalogue ofSt. Mary's Academy from 1880-81, it states that "No pupil is permitted to borrow or lend any article of clothing," and "no jewelry must be brought to the Academy, as its use by the pupils is prohibited. If custom or weak eyes necessitate the use of earrings, they must be perfectly plain gold ones. '' 
Also, "weekly instructions are given in politeness and etiquette, and all that constitutes correct, lady-like deportment." A few items required for each student's wardrobe included nine yards of lace edging, six napkins, one silver r,oblet, three black aprons for every day, and four pairs each of cotton and woolen hose. 
In 1914, the only vacation granted during the scholastic year was Christmas. Board and tuition, including Greek, Latin, French, German, Spanish, bedding 
ll.nd washing was only $175 per semester. 
"It is clear that many remember our last efforts to offer this program. Apparently, their recollections are quite positive." After touring the various ethnic neighborhoods in the South Bend area, a traditional Hungarian dinner . will be served to all those participa­ting in the program. The stte of the dinner this year will the the Saint Stephen's Parish Center. Paul Callahan, Director for Publi­city for Neighborhood Roots, said 
more concern for South Bend since it is their home for almost nine months 
out of the year. "We hope to involve as many underclassmen as possible so that they can get a good idea of what South Bend IS about." 
Editor's Note: The Third Edition of the Neighborhood Roots program wilftake place on Sunday, November 
4. Transportation will be 
nr.·><nRofl Students wzll be asked to the Parish Center dinner. 
The basement music room in Holy Cross Hall [Photo courtesy Saint Mary's Archives]. 

m the 1919-20 catalogue; "pupils write to parents.or guardian at least once a we~k ... Parents are requested to furnish a hst of those with whom they desire thetr daughters to correspond." And "our table is always supplied with an abundance of wholesome and well-prepared food, hence we will not allow confectionary or other eatables sent or brought to the pupils.'' 
An. old classroom ~n the fir:st floor ofHoly Cross. The cum'culum included Schtence, Secretanal Tratmng, journalism Commerical Art and Sociology
[P oto courtesy Saint Mary's Archives]. ' 

In 1929, the b,Qard and..JuitiQO costs ~11)0---per year! A single private room was $150 and a s'ingle with a bath was $225. Absences, during this time, that immediately followed preceded a vacation period constituted a loss of five I>oints on the students grade for the first day and two points for every following day. The school also requested that all dentistry, etc., be attended to before the student came to school because "such matters divert the mind from the work to whichstudents schould come prepared to give their undivided attention." 
Some courses offered in the 1945-50 school year were Meal Planning, The House, Clothing Selection, Principles of Economics, Statistics, and How to Use the Library. During this time large recreation rooms, beauty parlors and the Oriole, a popular ice cream and sandwich shop, were located in the ground floor ofLeMans. 
We've come a long way since these days. However, maybe we should start writing home every week. It was kind of depressing when I called home last week and my mother asked "Katie who?" 

New ond CO'm· p/etely equipped buildings of beauty and dig­nity on extenaive c a m p u ·s over· looking winding 
river. 
A fully accrcdit<•d standard college for girls, conducted hy the Sis­ters of the Ilo1~· Cross. Course~ leading to Bache-lor and ~~a~ter I>rgrres. Cultural atlfl profe~sional education. Sociology, Home Eco· nomics, Journalism, Secretarial Training, Science, Teacher Training, 
t!'lorrs 
Dramaic Art. Commercial Art, Fine Arts. Con~rn·atory of ~lusic unexcrllt·d. 
ollese­
otreDoro~ Physical Training Outdoor Sports Horseback Riding 
For catc.J./o,, addr,·.'>.'i 
THE REGISTRAR, ST. MA~R_Y_'S_~_OLLEGE, Box_C,__~o_tr_e._D_a_me, Indiana _I 

I deal/y situated, eighty miles east of Chicaeo, near South Bend, lndiano., and tlari! Uniuersity of 
Notre Da""'. 
A commissioned high school for girls, conductr;-rl hy the Sisters of the Holy Cross. On approved list of Secondary Schools of the North 
l
t(l}or~'s 
Central Association. Regular high school curriculums. Vocational courses in ]\{ usic, Dramatic Art, Fine Arts, Home Economics, and Commercial ~uhjects.
caderov­
Physical Training Outdoor Sports Horseback Riding
otre Dot1)e 
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT: First to Eighth Grades, inclusive. 
FOT? CATALOG AIWRESS 
THE REGISTRAR, ST. MARY'S CQbbECE, Box C, Notre Dame, Indiana 
Advertisements for the College and High .School ~a~en from AMERICA magazine in 1928. The ads boast physzcal. outdo?r sports and horseback · at the schools Samt . 



·.~ 
J 

A typical Holy Cross residence in the 1950's. The regulation r_e_gartjing 
visztation at that time hours at this time make today 's tules seem ltbertme. 
Note the stylish umforms [Photo courtesy Saint Mary's Archives]. 
NEIGHBORHOOD ROOTS 
c••u •• e:ftv:P•g~12Jand beyond 


--The Observer -SportsBoard Wednesday, October 10, 1979-page 14 
Interhall 
lnterflall Football 
Soutll w L T Dillon 3 
0 0
Alumni 2 1 
0
Morrissey 2 1 
0
Pangborn 1 
1 1
Fisher 0 
2 1
Howard 0 3 
0 
North Keenan 2 0 0 Stanford 2 0 0 Zahm 1 1 0 Grace 1 2 0 Flanner 0 3 0 
Central 
Carroll 2 0 1 Ott-Campus 1 0 1 Holy Cross 2 1 0 Sorin 1 1 1 C:avanaugh 0 2 1 St. Ed's 0 2 0 
Molarity 
Pf PA 
56 0 20 3 10 14 6 14 0 15" 0 46 
9 0 13 0 13 6 19 16 6 38 
w 0 !8 0 13 28 8 10 0 20 3 14 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Flag Football Standings
W  L  ·  
Badin  4  1  
Breen Phillips.wt Campus Iyons  3 3 2  1 1 2  
lewis  2  3  
Farley  1  2  
Walsh  0  4  

Soccer 
NOTRE DAME 11, VALPARAISO 0 First Half NO-Mike Mal (Brian McCurrie), 6:18 
NO--Kevin Lovejoy (Bill Murphy), 15:04 
NO--Lovejoy (Mal), 18:31 
ND--Kahale (Lovejoy), 24:45 
NO--Murphy (Kahale), 39:28 
second Half NO--Murphy (Mal), 4:35 ND-McCurrie (unassisted), 25:31 NO--Jim Stein (unassisted), 30:30 Steve Kraemer (Jay Schwartz), 35:25 Kahal.e (unassisted), 43:32 

1 Discover 25 Moonscape 
5 Tyrannical feature king of 28 Fade from Judea sight 
10 A Copper-33 Consumed 
field 34 Yours: Fr. 14 Lombardy 35 "-Lake" city 36 Sternward 
15 Organic 37 Public-compound alert 16 Yale men initials 17 King of 39 Gridiron 
comedy scores: 
18 Punjab abbr. princess 41 Total: 19 Summoning abbr. 
gesture 42 Recipe word 20 Show off 44 Sealing 23 Fish; in agent 
a way 46 Berth choice 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
The Daily Crosswor~ 

I ~ 
I 
All Rights Reserved 1011ong 
Miami ,girl, Sally Schaberg. Placed m the consolation divi­sion, Shukis responded with a 2-6, 6-4, 7-6 win in that final, over Mary Hop of CMU. 
• Freshman]an jDvonch, not a normal starter for Coach Sandy Frey~s Belles, represented SMC in a number four singles. Dvonch lost her first match to Schaberg 6-4, 6-3, and then lost to Jante in the consolation 6·3, 6-3. 
In doubles, Saint Mary's number one team of Karen Smith and Maureen O'Brien lost their opener to Pam Dodman and Nancy Hoff of Miami, and then dropped out of the consolation by losing to Cindy Bagley and Robin Walker of Central Michigan 6-4, 6-3. Sophomores Tina Stephan and Mary Legeagy,.Notre Dame's top team, lost their first round match to Mary Cornell and Linda Raymones of Marquette, in identical 6-4 sets. In the consolation, the duo won their first match, before losing to Sue ·Crowell and Bea Grech-Cumbo 
of East~n Michigan. 
Sopho-more Stasey Obremskey and freshman Molly Walsh combined to form Notre Dame's second doubles team. A bye and a victory over a couple of girls from Central Michigan put the Irish duo in the finals, where they were pitted against Diane Edelmann and Lori Montgomery of Miami. Obremskey and Walsh lost in straight sets, which forced them to play the consola­tion finals against Terri Bracken and Mo O'Brien of SMC. In that match, the Irish came away with a 7-5, 6-2 victory. 
Upon completion of the tour­nament, Notre Dame coach Jory Segal commented on her team's performance. ''Although we missed an oppor­tunity to finish second, I am very pleased with the team's performance. We were up against some stiff competition, and were beaten by three scholarship schools, which is nothing to be ashamed of. We have played a lot of tennis over the last couple of months, and I know the girls are a little bit tired, so we'll rest tomorrow (Monday), and th~n begin to prepare for states. 
Saint Mary's coach Sandy Frey was also pleased with her team's showing. "We didn't do all that bad when you consider that we played Miami girls in three of our first round matches. Our doubles teams showed me that they can play, and I am convinced that we can do well at states. We will ha...-e to play extremely well to beat Notre Dame and DePauw, last years top two teams, but I think that the way we have improved over the course of the season, we are capable of doing just that." 
Thanks to you ... it works ... 
for 
ALL 
OFUS 

Unitedway 



fTHB-WEEitATTHir zl 
.lwed. Oct. 10 Jazz '!"ith the 1
1 9_? ND B1g Band 
IThur Oct 11 D·an Keusal 9-1 0 1 I ' Srian McHale 10-1 ~ 
IFri , Oct 12 recording artist I I Smoky Joe 9-101
I I 
I Rich Stevenson & Dan Serenato1ISa~. Oct 13 Comedy 10-? 1 I Night 9:30-?I
I Due to budget cuts, Nazz ads will run once a week. I the schedufe in ON CAMPI JS ~ I 

... SMC,ND 
[continued from page 16] 
the tinals, where she met Lee Earl of Miami. In a three hour, three set final, Earl captured a hard fought 3-6, 7-5, 6-3 vic­tory. For Hoyer, it was only the second singles match she had lost all season, the first coming in the ND-SMC Invitational back in mid-September. While Hoyer was working her way to a second place finish, Fitzgerald defeated Andrea Foeller of Marquette, and lost to Dana Hawkins of St. Louis in the consolation round. 
In number three singles, Paddy Mullen of Nocre Dame lost tn the opening · round to Nina Leigh Howard of Miami, the eventual tournament winner, and Carmel Maenza of SMC lost her match to Barb Smith of St. Louis. In the consolations, Mullen rode a bye and a victory over Smith to the semis, where she lost to Sue Viewing of CMU 6-1, 6-2. Earlier, Maenza had lost to Viewing in the second round of the consolation draw 6-4, 6-2. 
Sophomore Caprol Shukis reached the finals of the fourth singles catagory by downing Sue Pulley of Saint Louis and Elaine Jante of Mar9uette. IN the final match, Shukts suffered a 6-2, 6-3 loss to yet another 
by Michael -Molinelli 


48 Increase 
rapidly 50 Skimpy 51 Feb. and 
Oct. 52 Moslem 
leaders 54 Show off 60 Gambling 
game 61 Hot under the collar 62 Capri or 
Man 63 Jejune 64 NBA player 65 Gist 66 Aswan and 
Shasta 67 Double­rippers 68 Advantage 
DOWN Deceptive trick 
2 City in Kansas 3 Neighbor of Minn. 4 Apartment 
alcove 5 Port 6 Enamel: Fr. 7 Curl 8 Pindaric 
poems 9 Carefully contrived 
10 
11 
12 
13 
21 22 
25 
26 
27 29 
30 
31 
32 34 38 
40 
43 
45 47 
49 
50 53 
54 
55 
56 
57 58 59 60 
Forensic events Bullring cheers Affluent Query Fight site Author '-Deighton Discontinue Catamarans Loft Cast a ballot Trades Bactrian Vestibule Border on Useful synthetics Courtroom contestants Martinets Adolescent Recreation Gehrig Tightwads Doled out FOR's mother In good shape Certain exam Secondhand 
Jolly Roger Festival Fashion craze 

---~------------~------­
I I 

Wednesday, October 10, 1979-page 16
SRorts 
Despite LaGrotta Irish destroy Valparaiso 
by Paul Partn"dge Sports Writer 
There were about 20 minutes 
remaining in yesterday's soccer 
match against Valparaiso when 
Notre Dame's Joe Ciuni drib­
bled up midfield and around 
several Valpo defenders. When 
he was 1 5 yards from the net he 
spotted and open wing and 
instinctively fed him the ball. 
Frank LaGrotta, open and 
unattended in front of the 
Crusader net, trapped the pass, 
turned and fired. Valpo goalie 
Milan Damjonovic was at La­
Grotta' s mercy. One on one 
from scarcely a dozen feet. 
One man trying to protect an 
opening 24 feet wide and eight 
feet high. The crowd, already 
standing, strained to see the 
result. LaGrotta, showing all 
the dexterity of a one-legged 
long jumper, wound up and 
fired. 
Damjonovic didn't even have to move. The ball hit him right in the stomach. LaGrotta, huffing and puffing like the little train that thought he could, looked as though he'd pass out any moment and was mercifully removed from the game. 
That's right, folks--Frank La­Grotta. The one and only. The same Frank LaGrotta that picked Notre Dame by 22 over Purdue. The same Frank LaGrotta that actually believes Pittsburgh will beat Baltimore in FOUR straight. The same 
Frank LaGrotta whose imparti­
ality is obscured only by his 
tranquility. 
Yesterday LaGrotta decided to 
abandon the pen and play 
George Plimpton for an after­
noon. And after seeing his face 
after his 10-minute varsity ca­
reer, it doesn't appear there's 
any chance of his trying to take 
advantage of his four years of 
eligibility. 
Once LaGrotta did get his breath he quickly summed up his assessment of soccer. "Hey, those guys work hard out there.'' After that understate­ment of the obvious LaGrotta retired to the bench where he tried to determine if he logged enough time i:o get a letter. 
"Hey Phoebe," he yelled to the timekeeper, "how long was I in there, 25 minutes?" 
''No more than ten minutes,'' came the reply. "Then how come I feel like I'm going to die?" Have another piece of apple pie, Frank. 
Before LaGrotta had a chance to display his athletic prowess Notre Dame had built up an 8-0 lead over an outmanned Valpa­raiso squad. And in all fairness to LaGrotta he was in the game when the Irish scored their ninth goal on their way to an 11-0 massacre of the Crusaders. 
The Irish outshot their oppo­nent 52-1 and Brian Cullather, as well as three other Notre 
(continued on page 11 ) 
Womens ' tennis 

SMC, ND compete in Invitational 
by Mark Hannuksela Sports Wn"ter 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's womens tennis teams completed preparations for the upcoming state tournament by competing in the Irish Invita­tional Tournament last week· end. Notre Dame will go into the state tourney, which will be held at Anderson College this weekend. as the defending "tate champs. Saint Mary's, which finished the regular 'season with 7-3 record, will attempt to improve on last year's fourth place finish. 
The Irish Invitational opened on Friday with a total of seven teams in its field. The top three finishers in the tournament, the Miami University of Ohio, Central Michigan University and Marquette University, are all scholarship schools. Notre Dame finished fourth, one point behind Marquette and three points behind second place Central Michigan, followed by Saint Mary's, the University of St. Louis and Eastern · 


Maureen Fitzgerald competedfor St. Mary's tennis team over the weekend. [photo by Dave RumbachJ 


The Irish soccer team crushed Valparaiso yesteraday by an 11-0 score. [photo by Ken Berumen) 
Defeat Michigan 
Golfers end season with victory 
by Bzll McCormick Sports W nter 
The Notre Dame golf team ended its fall competition on a winning note with a one stroke victory over Michigan last Sun­day in Ann Arbor. 
The Irish fired a less-than­spectacular team score of 403 in the 18-hole dual match, but considering all of the obstacles that they had to overcome, their performance was quite remark­able. 
First of all, Notre Dame was 
University. Notre Dame 
reached the finals in three of 
the six categories while Saint 
Mary's had one girl win her 
bracket. 

In the number one singles 
position, Notre Dame's Cindy 
Schuster opened a~ainst 
Wendy Sweeney of Mtami. 
Sweeney scored a 6-3, 4-6, 6-1 
victory, and eventually advanc­
ed to the finals before bowing to 
Saint Mary's freshman Patsy 
Coash. For Coash, it was the 
fourteenth consecutive match 
she had won this season. In the 
consolation bracket, Schuster 
again lost, this time to Julie 
Bookmyer of St. Louis 6-4, 6-1. 
At the second singles posi­
tion, Linda Hoyer easily 
downed her first two oppon­
ents, Maureen Fitzgerald of 
Saint Mary's and Becky Crespo 
of Central Michigan, to reach 
the finals, where she met Becky 
Earl of Miami. In a three hour, 
three set final, Earl captured a 
hard fought 3-6, 7-5, 6-3. 
In number three singles, Paddy Mullen of Notre Dame lo~t to !he opening roun_d t_o Ntoa Letgh Howard of Mtamt, the eventual tournament winner, and Carmel Maenza of SMC lost her match to Barb Smith of St. Louis. In the consolations, Mullen rode a bye and a victory over Smith to the semis, where she lost to Sue Viewing of CMU 6-1, 6-2. Earlier, Maenza had lost to Viewing in the second round of the consolation draw 6-4. 6-2. 
At the second singles posi­tion, Linda Hoyer easily downed her first two oppon­ents, Maureen Fitzgerald of Saint Mary's and Becky Crespo of Central Michigan, to reach 
[continue. • 14 1 
playing on Mic~i_&~!l's home Ferlam (83). "The scores were course, which Golf _World mag-excellent under the horrendous azine rates as one of the top five· cpnditions, ''O'Sullivan empha­courses in the state of Michi-sized. gan. Secondly, Notre Daf!le was The victory over Michigangoing agamst a team whtch has gave Notre Dame a final record numerous players on schol?-r-of 27-4 for the fall season. ship-and is able to practice . While the team only played 
\egularly on a top-notch golf three tournaments, it finished 'course. Consider also the fact ahead of 27 teams and behind 
that after riding in a van for . 
four hours, none of the Notre o_nly four during its compett-Dam~ golfers were able to tton. practi¢e because of a shortage There will be no more tourna­of timt:. "We came out of the ments until the spring, but the van an~ teed it up," explained Notre Dame golfers will have Irish coach Noel O'Sullivan. two more opportunities to test Finally, an ;obstacle which had their skills before putting the an equally harmful effect on clubs away for the winter. both team:,;, was the cold, Athletic Director Edward damp, anu win~y we_ather. (Moose Krause has arranged "Players wHe usmg dnvers on for the team to play at the Point P.ar threes," O'Sullivan said. O'WoodsGolf Club in Benton 'It just wasir't a day to play Harbor, Michigan later this fall. golf." Point O'Woods is the home of Yet, despite all of the things Western Amateur tournament going against them, the Irish and is considered to be one of golfers, tn classic Notre Dame the top courses in the nation. fashion, were able to rise to t~e Thanks to Joe O'Brien, Busi­challenge and come away vtc-ness Manager and Assistant torious. \ Director of Athletics, Notre The two man for Notre Dame Dame will also play the renow­
on Sunday was Bill McGuinnes, ed Butler National course in who shot a 78 on the par-72 Chicago, home of the Western course. Tim Sacheck came in Open. 
with a 79, while Tom McCarthy O'Sullivan feels that the ex­(who fired a two-under-par 34 perience of playing these two on the back nine) finished at 81. championship course this f~ll The remaining scores were as will help the golfers to sustatn follows: John Lundgren (82}, their interest and motivation Dave Knee (83), and Stoney throughout the winter months. 
Sports Briefs._ ______, 
USC game to start early 

NEW YORK (AP) -ABC announced Tuesday that it will show the Southern 'California at Notre Dame game as part of a college football doubleheader Oct. 20. 
The USC-Notre Dame broadcast will begin at 12:30 EDT. The second game has not been decided yet, ABC said. Notre Dame leads this fierce rivalry with a record of 27-19-4. 
Reps debate Series outcome 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Rep. Doug Walgren, D-Pa, told Rep. Barbara Nikulski, D-Mo., Tuesday to "put up or shut up" over who'll win the World Series. 
Ms. Mikulski, whose congressional district is Baltimore, has been boasting amon~ her colleagues that the Orioles will defeat the Pittsburgh Ptrates in four straight games. 
Walgren said he will wager one set of stamless steel knives forged in his district against a bucket of Baltimore crabs that Pittsburgh will win the series. 
But Ms. Nikulski, contacted on the telephone, said she was so sure of the Orioles that she will up the ante. 

"I am so confident of my team that I'll bet him a bushel of crabs, 10 pounds ofPolish sausages and a dozen donuts from my family's bakery," said the Maryland Democrat. 






