

q 
, , , Double Exposure -page 5 l l j J 
1 

VOL. XIII, NO. 120 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Spring has finally am·ved at du Lac as these Domers relax and enjoy the warm weather. [Photo by Mark Ricca] 
Olngressman John Brademas speaks on Soviet military concerns at local press conference 
by john M. McGrath 
Senior StaffReporter 
In his first press conference since returning from a trip to the Soviet Union, Third District Congressman John Brademas told reporters yesterday, "In my judgement, there cannot be long-run trust and stability between the U.S. and the Soviet Union until they end their overwhelming secrecy, ... es­pecially on the details of the Soviet military budget. This continuing secrecy ... 1s the prin­cipal reason wh)' Americans are insisting on effective verifica­tion of any SALT agreement." 
Brademas, House Majority Whip, returned Sunday night 
All indications suggest a nuclear weapons treat.Y 
WASHINGTON (AP) --Presi­dent Carter returned to work amid indications there might be an announcement by week's end of a treaty with the Soviet Union to limit strategic nuclear weapons.
But White House and State Department officials said the long-expected arms accord was not yet wrapped up. 
These officials, who declined to be indentified, said the Russians would like to have all major issues settl~d bef?re announcing a summit meeting between Carter and Soviet Pre­sident Leonid I. Brezhnev. 
"There are things that are of substance still undecided," one official said. 
The U.S. position is that if there is general agreement on the major treaty provisions, Carter and Brezhnev could apply some of the finishing touches at the summit in late May. 
But, in any event, at least one 
more sesston between Secre­
tary of State Cyrus R. Vance 
and Soviet Ambassador Anatoly from an eight-day official mis­sion to the U.S.S.R. as leader of a bipartisan group of seventeen congressmen. During their stay, the members of the dele­gation conferred with delegates from the Supreme Soviet as well as with Alexei Kosygin, Chairman of the U.S.S.R. Council of ministers. 
''The overriding objective of the Soviet Union right now, in terms of U.S.-Soviet relations, is the speedy approval of the SALT a~reement,'' Brademas noted. 'I made it very clear, however, ... that there would be the broadest possible debate in our country on SALT, before a final decision is. reached." 
The South Bend Democrat 
F. Dobrynin is expected--and the date'for that is still not set. 
In a speech to the National Academy of Sciences here, President Carter called on sci­ence professionals ''to help shape an educated public de­bate" on SALT. 
Noting that many of the issues involved ''are very complex technically" he said, "The participation of scientists will be crucial." 
Touching on one key issue without elaborating, Carter said: ''If science gave us nuclear weapons, it is !lo less true that science has g1ven us the extraordinary means of verifying compliance with trea­ties governing those weapons.'' 
In more general terms; the president told his scientific audience: "SALT II will reduce the risk of nuclear war by lowering levels of strategic arms, constraining develop­ment of new weapons systems, and contributing to a more stable political relationship with the Soviet Union." 
[conlim~eri on page 2) 
also said that the Soviets are 
seriously concerned about the 
recent improved relations 
between the U.S. and Commun­
ist China. 
"One of the themes that ran through all of the statements of the Soviets was their very strong hostility to the People's Republic of China,'' Brademas observed. ''While the Soviets do not obiect of our having resumed diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China, they are bitterly oppos­.ed to any. closer ties with the Chinese, whom the regard as a 
military threat." 
"Everywhere we went in the 
Soviet Union, we found the 
most bitter, paranoid criticism 
of the Chinese," Brademas 
noted. 
On the subject of recent proposals to reinstate the mili­tary draft, Brademas noted, ''Committees are looking at various proposals, but there is nothing moving through the Congress right now that WOiJld represent any major·cbange in the present system of man­nin~ ... our armed· services." 
' It's too early to say (v1hat 
actiop ),'Will be taken on draft 
prop(>sills), but I did meet the 
other day with the Secretary of 
the Army and he very strongly 
opposes a return to the draft,'' 
Brademas said. 
Brademas also reported on 
the prospects of Congressional 
approval of President Carter's 
proposed windfall profits tax on 
American Oil companies. 
"I think the chances of it 
moving through the House are 
encouraging," Brademas said. 
"But I foresee more difficulty in 
passing that legislation in the 
Senate. I'm surprised, though, 
t<' see a lot of Rep-:1blicans who 
support the tax.' 
Brademas ~lso noted that, during his stay in Russia, he notices an apparent resur~Jence of interest in (eligion. 
"There's been a kind of falling away on the part of some youns people frotn the official doctrme ofCommunism; it does not give enough spiritually, intellectually, and morally, to young people ... and that's one of the reasons that explains this increased interest in religion,'' Brademas observed. 
"You've got to understand, however, that if you are a young person in the Soviet Union, and you go to church, you are, in effect, throwing a very heavy blanket over your entire life -­over your career, and your prospects for advancement,'' he aaded. 
In response to reporter's questions, Brademas listed the biggest accomplishments of the current Congress as focusing the attention of the country on the energy situation, getting congressional oversight com­mittees underway, cutting down on some departmental appropri;ltions, and taking a deeper look at the President's budget requests. 
Crew coaches discover body in Saint Joseph River 
by MichaelLewis Executive News Editor 
The body of a 50 to 60 year old woman was found in the St. Joe river yesterday, about 100 yards west of the Bittersweet road 
bridge. Clete Graham and Joann Gormley, coaches of the Notre Dame men's and women's rowing teams, discovered the body at 7:05 
a.m. yesterday during morniog practice. They tied a rope around the body, towed it back to the team's base, and notified the police. 

Graham said the police arrived about 10 minutes after he called. The body was then taken to St. Joseph Hospital for an autopsy. . "At first I didn't think it was a body," Graham said. "It was so ·white it looked like a plaster mannequin.'' 
• St. Joseph County C0roner Dr. Stanley M. Koscielski said the woman was between ')O and 60 years of age,_ and died of an ''apparent drowning.'' He estimated that the body has been in the river for about a month. 
He was not able to positively identify the body, except to say that the woman ''was probably from Elkhart,'' since no missing 

· persons have. been rc;_ported recendy in South Bend. Dental srudies, x-rays and mJSsing r-erson lists are being used in the identification effort. 
Koscielski and the St. Joe County Sheriff's office are continuing their investigations. 
TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1979 


Saudi Arabia breaks ties with Egypt 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP) 
Saudi Arabia decided yester­day to break diplomatic rela­tions with Egypt in compliance with the Baghdad . Arab summit decision last month to impose sanctions against the Cairo government the official Saudi news agenr,· reported. 
The sanctions are intended to punish President Anwar Sadat for signing a peace treaty with Israel. 
The agency said the decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting in Riyadh under Deputy Pre­mier Prince Abdallah bin Abdul Aziz, also commander of the Saudi national guard. 
Kuwait announced earlier Monday that it had broken diplomatic relations with Egypt for the same reason. 
Prince Abdullah presided at the Cabinet meeting because Crown Prince Fahd, the prime ministers, is abroad. He flew to Spain, reportedly for health reasons, as the Arab League ministers were meeting in Bag­
hdad  in  M:rtch  to  approve  
san.ctions  against  Sadat' s  
regtme.  

Information Minister Mo­hammed Abdo Yamani said the decision to sever relations with Egypt was taken ''because Egypt accepted and planned to exchange diplomatic represen­tation with the Zionist enemy (lsfael). '' 
"Egypt began to establish normal relations with the ene­my without takin~ into consid­eration. the mimmum of de­mands the Arabs had been loo~ing forward to as a basis for · a just ·~ comprehensive peace," the miniSter added. 
He said Saudi Arabia "hopes that factors justifying this step 
(continued on page 2] 
~ ,____,_,-'l-~
..~~--.------------~~----------------~----~.~.~~~---------------.-.-.--.-.-..-.~.-.-.~,----~~~~--------~---~~-----­
' ' J,' " 
------------------------------------.---------------~------~~~~--~~--~--~--~----~-­
Tuesday, April 24, 1979-page 2

News in brief 
NRCofficialssuggest limited Cambodian refugees flee to sanctuary 
Nuke plant shutdown 
WASHINGTON (.AP)--Nuclear power plants built by the firm that constructed the Three Mile Island plant are hard to control and should be shut down until their safety can be assured, key staff ·officials of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission su$gested yesterday. NRC Chairman Joseph 
M. Hendrie satd the commission would decide today or tomorrow whether a temporary shutdown of the plants, built by Babcock & Wilcox, should be ordered. The plants in question are similar to the stricken Three Mile Island P,lant and contain features that make them • 'sensitive ' to malfuncitons, NRC staff officials said in a briefing for commissioners.. 
Billy Carter on alcohol: 
'I gave up my best friend' 
LONG BEACH, Calif. (AP)--Billy Carter, one of America's most famous beer drinkers, admitted yesterday that he is an alcoholic. He added that swearing off alcohol was like gividg­up "one ofmy best friends. •• "The toughest part was when1 made up my mind never to drink again -God knows I gave up one of my best friends," President Carter's brother said at a news conference at the U.S. Navy's regional medical center. Carter, sponing a new mustache, said he lost about 10 pounds, quit smoking and felt great after seven weeks at the hospital's famous Alcohol Rehabilitation Service. He said he hopes to be released this weekend. 
Flooding in Minnesota and 

Mississippi worsens 
(AP)-· Weary volunteers worked in incessant rains yesterday to fight back the Red River, which rose to its highest point this century at East Grand Forks, MN. More rain also bode more trouble for Columbia, Miss., on the Pearl River, where half the town's 7, 500 residents have been homeless for several days, waiting for the flooding river to recede. More than 2 inches had fallen since Sunday, and the National Weather Service had predicted 3 or more inches could send the river back up agam. 

Weather 
Periods ofrain and a chance ofthundershowers today. Highs in the mid 60s. Lows in the mid to upper 50s. Tomorrow, mostly cloudy with a chance of showers and thunderstorms. Highs around 70. 
An Tostal extended weather 
Thursday through Saturday: mild with a chance of showers Thursday. Turning a little cooler Friday and Saturday Lows mostly in the 50s Thursday, 40s Friday and Saturday. Highs mid 60s to mid 70s Thursday. Cooling to around 60 this weekend. 


CamP-_us_------1 
3:30 pm--MINI-COURSE, computer graphics, 115 MATH BLDG. 
4:30 pm--SEMINAR, "cholesterol & the acth action: a review of the mechanisms of acth actions & its present state • of understanding," prof. frank ungar, 278 GALYIN 
7 pm--SEMINAR, "seminar on abonion," LEWIS HALL REC ROOM 
7 & 9:30 pm--FILM, "king lear," the peter brook production of shakespeare's play, A-V THEATRE CCE 
7, 9:15 & 11:30 pm--FILM, "madame rosa," ENG. AUD., $1 
8 pm--VARIETY SHOW, "an evening for the children," spon. by smc & charity, ANG. ATH. FAC., donations $1 and $2.50 
smc seniors may pick up their graduation announcements today between 11 am -2 pm and 6-8 pm in the lemans lobby. 
t 

through southern frontier in Thailand 
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) ... Fifty thousand Cambodians fleein~ a major Vietnamese offensive in their own country trekked south along the fron­tier, inside Thailand, ap­parently on their way to sanc­tuary in the rugged mountains of southwestern Cambodia, 
... Arabs 
[continued from page I] would be removed so that relations could be restored between the two brotherly countries.'' Arab diplomatic sources said all 19 Arab League members that participated in the anti­Sadat Baghdad meeting would take similar action soon. . ...,, R'e)>~rts from Cairo said Sa­dat had ordered his government to take "parallel measures" if Arab countries broke off rela­tions with Egypt. 
... SALT 
[continued from page 1] 
Vance and Dobrynin have been meeting regularly over the past few weeks on major stick­mg points. These have inclu­ded a definition of new missile systems and methods ot as­suring verification of terms of the treaty. 
The accord would limit U.S. and Soviet long-range bombers and intercontinental ballistic missiles throu~h 1985. It has been in negotiation for seven years and seemin~ly on the verge of completion for 18 months. 
Caner, returning from an 11-day vacation, scheduled a number of public appearances this week. ·White House press secretary ] ody Powell said the president would concentrate on SALT in a speech Wednesday in New York to the American Newspaper Publishers Associa­tion. But Powell ruled out any anouncement of a SALT II treaty on that occasion. 
State Department sources said last week--while Carter was still relaxing in Georgia--that there is a chance for an announce­ment by the end of this week. 
' The Observer. 
Night Editor: Sue Wuetcher Asst. Night Editor: Ann Monaghan Copy Editor: john McGrath, Sherry Mummert Layout Staff: Panama Red Features Layout: Me~nie 
Budd Spons Layout: john "Spoil' sport" Smith Typists: Mardi Nevin, Mary McCauley, Pete McFadden 
EMT: Katie Day Editor: john Ferroli Ad Layout: joe Murphy, Barbara Pratt Photographer: Mark Ricca 
The Ollllrver [USPS Iiiii 920) II publllhld MOndiY tbnlugb Frldly IX· cept during exam and VICitlon perfodl.The Observer 11 publllhed by the students of Notre Dame and Sllnt Mary'1 College. Subscriptions may be pun:hlsed for SZO per yeer [$10 per lllllllter] from The Observer, P.O. box Q, Notre bame, lndllna 485511. Second clea =• paid, Notre Dame, In­
diana . 
The Observer Is 1 member of the Aaocllted Prill. All rljll'llductlon rlghtlan memd. 
newsman at the scene said 
yesterday. 
The large number ofrefugees, as well as victory claims by the new pro-Vietnam Cambodian regime of President Heng Sam­rio, indicated the forces of toppled pro·China Premier Pol Pot were suffering heavy losses in western Cambodia. 
Vietnam, apparently eager to end the costly ·conflict It ini­tiated with a Christmas Day invasion of Cambodia, began a major offensive last month to wipe out the Pol Pot guerrillas in western Cambodia before the rainy season stans. 
Thai military sources in Bang­kok and at the . frontier said Soviet and Cuban military ad­vi.sers were opera~~ng with the V 1etnamese, a clium that has been made repeatedly by the Pol Pot media. 
A reliable Western source said that although he had no first­hand evidence to sutstantiate t~e report, there. was ''exten­Sive circumstantial evidence' • that Russians and possibly Cu­bans were involved in Cam­bodia. The source speculated that any foreign expens pro­b~bly would be helping the V1etnamese maintain its 150,000-man fighting force in Cambodia. 
appltcattons me setnG accept€0 ~oR the postttons· o~ . 
hpc secRetaRY anb 
; 
€X€CutiV€ COOROtnatoR apply at th€ Stu0€nt Govmnmmt o~~1oos OR call €1.1.€0 OoRney at 6922 sy WebapRil 25th 
"THE BEST" Stuart Klein, WNEW·TV 

Shows 2:15-4:40-7:05-9:30 
5 Academy Awards No passes No bargain matinee.
THE DEER HUNTER 
Shows at 1:00, 4:15, and ·a .m. 
..... ·-= 
Sw•••er Storage ~~. ... _-:·~· 
. ":" :.. 
Special Discoat lor N.D. Students. ~ 
:1,..· 
........... 
~ ~
.., .
259-0335 
SeU Lock Storage____. ofMclinle 
Tues. April 24th 'Double Exposure' 8 pm Nazz 
.. , ,• ' r ' r • • 
Wed. April 25th Irish Pub/Carnl~al 
Thurs. April 26th Irish Pub/mr. Campus 
'I" • . ... •
Fri. April 27th An Toatal adtvltt~a ·~ 

Sat. April 28th An Toatal actlvltlei Sun. Aptll 29th An T oatal activities 
·-~· 


'--· 
The Observer 
Tuesday, April 24, 1979-page 3 


Student businesses cause controversy 
Editor's Note: This story is the second in a three-part series dealing with campus busi­nesses. Yesterday's article dealt with University-run busi­nesses, andtoday 's story exam­Ines businesses run by stu­dents. Tomorrow's final install­me111 will provide an overview of the entire question of busi­nesses at Notre Dame. 
by Pal Toomey Jr. StaffReporter 
Student-run businesses have 
been a center of controversy in 
recent months, as attempts to 
expand these businesses have 
met strong opposition from 
University offic1als. 
Currently, the only continu­ous student-run businesses are the Student Union, Hall Food Sales, the birthday cake conces­sion, and Flanner Records (Which is closing at the end of the semester). Many other businesses, suE:h as f~tball concessionstands, are run as "one-shot" events. 
In order to 8et any merchan­dising activiues approved, a student must follow two steps. He must first submit a plan to the Student Union Services Commissioner, Curt Hench. If the idea is approved by the Student Union, It must then be approved by John Reid, Stu­dent Activities director. 
According ·to Reid, "Mer­chandising IS understood to be any ~ind of activity providing a servtce ot' a product that m­volves an exchange of furids. The attempt is to limit that activity, and priority is siven to groups over individuals m order to spread out the benefits.'' 
When asked why student business need to be regulated, Reid responded, ''We restrict beeausc of the sheer volume ·of requests to. merchandise on campus, and we need to screen 
them out. We also ·want to 
make sure there is a need or 
demand for their products.'' 
Reid has been a key figure in 
the recent dispute over the sale 
of non-food items in Hall Food 
Sales; The controversy arose 
when the administration dis­
covered that Flanner Food 
Sales was violating University 
policy by selling magazines. 
· The University ordered Flan­ner and four other dorms offering non-food items to sto.P selling these products. Th1s action brought a strong protest from food sales managers, and a compromise proposal from Student Body . President Bill Roche. Under Roche's propos­al, halls could selJ ten non-food items from a list of 25 items approved by the .University. 
This proposal must be ap­proved by Reid in order to be tmplemented. Reid refused to comment on it. "I am going to meet with the committee that drew it up on Thursday, and I don't want to make any prejudi­cial remarks,'' Reid stated. 
Reid expressed hope that he would make a decision by Friday, or by Monday at the latest. 
In the past, Reid had ex­pressed strong opposition to the expansion of food sales opera­tions. ''The philosophy is that there isn't supposed to be a duplication of services already offered. Getting into other items leads to a hall mini­grocery, which is not their purpose," Reid asserted. 
Don Ciancio, Flanner Hall president, objected strongly to this philosophy. He stated: "I don't think that they should dictate what we should do. They're worried about mini­groceries, but we're too small to do that." 
Ciancio also feels that stu­dents get more direct benefits when their hall makes money 


An Tostal kicks off this afternoon at 4 p.m. with an outdoor party at Lee's--All you can drink. Prizes, rib eating contests and chugging events will be featured. Be there! 
Looking for Mr. Goodbar 
Clue #2: "He's Number One." 

UMOC 
Ugly Man on Campus, the annual event to determine the 
ugliest man or woman on the ND-SMC campuses, is in full 
swing now. Voting will be conducted in the dining halls 
tomorrow thru Friday according to UMOC chairman, Steve 
Dyer. 
The proc«ds will again go to supporting Sister Marita's 
Primary Day SchOol in South Bend. 
The winner of the UMOC contest will be announced at the 
Irish Wake in Stepan Center, on Saturday night. "Om;t", 
last year's ugly man, will be the master of ceremonies. 
Road Rally 
Yes, it's goodnews for all you up-and-coming race drivers 
because the An Tostal Road Rally Will commence once again 
on Sunny Saturday at 9 a.m. A maximum of 100 contestants 
will solve clues for directions and answer questions along the­
route. Bring a wheeled vehicle (no hovercrafts, please)1 a 
pen, gas, and as many navigators as you can stand. 
Unfortunately, we couldn't get Mario Andretti to be honorary 
starter, but if you have any questions, call Ann at 3701, 
or Jim at 287-)726. 

than when the University makes money. "We can't feel the benefits directly through the University the way we do now in Flanner,'' Ciancio said. 
Flanner Records is another student-run business that ran into trouble with the adminis­tration. 
Flanner Records has been selling · records to students through an order system for eight years. At the end of this semester, it will be shut down by order of the University. 
Accordin_g to co-owner George Molttor, the store ran into difficulties soon after he acquired it for $1000 in the spring of 1977. "When I returned in the fall, Bro. Benesh (then Student Activities director) asked me to come in and talk. Benesh allowed me to operate for two years to keer, from taking a financial bath, ' Molitor stated. 
When asked why the opera­tion was stopped,. Molitoo re­plied, "Bro. Benesh gave no reason for it in the letter which shut us down, but he told me in a conversation that it was competing with the bookstore." 
'I thought I'd be able to sell the business, but now I'11 barely break even.' 
Molitor expressed bitterness over the decision. "It was totally arbitrary. I thought I'd be able to sell the business, but now I'II barely break even." 
Molitor found the present regulations on student~run businesses excessive. "I think that students should be able to run almost any business they want. Since students have to study, too, their businesses won't be that large," Molitor commented. 
Administration officials ex­pressed sentiments very differ-· ent than Molitor's and Cian­cio's. Bro. Kieran Ryan, asst. vice-president for Business M­fairs, was especially vehement in his criticisms of student businesses. 
When asked for his position on the recent food· sales contro­versy, Ryan responded, "Al­though food sales already exist, I don't think that they should." 
In fact, Ryan was opposed to student merchandising in gen­eral. "Students are here to study, not to run businesses," Ryan said. 
Thomas Mason, vice-presi­dent for Business Affairs, was also opposed to most student businesses, although his criti­cisms were not as harsh. 
Some aspects of food sales bother Mason, but he does not want them shut down. "In­surance companies frequently cite food sales in their reports. I am also concerned about sanitary questions," Mason stated. 
When asked why the number of student businesses must be regulated, Mason replied, "When there's a lot of busi­nesses, you need more monitor­ing and control. Sometimes the University can be left being responsible when things fall apart.'' Mason was unable to 
name  an  instance where  this  
occured, however.  
Mason  wondered  why  stu­ 

dents wanted to run busi­nesses. ''Why do they want to be bothered?" he asked. 
Currently, student busi­nesses are under tight control, and it is doubtful that this policy will be changed in the near future. Although this system may help protect the University and students from unscrupulous businesses, it also seems to stifle student initiative. 
D.C. Oub holds meeting 
The Washington, D.C. Area will take place, along with Club will hold a mandatory considttat;on of some constitu­meeting for all members to­tiona! changes. All MEM 
night at 7 p.m. in the basement BERS MUST ATTEND!!!!! Anyone interested in running
of Farley: Nomination and 
for office should call Jane Kirby election of officers for next year at 6804. 
Arts & Letters cards 
The following departments in the college of Arts & Letters will distribute their remaining check-mar~ed. cards on Wednesday, April 2~. in Stepan Center beglllDUlg at 8:30 
a.m.: American Studies 
Art Arts & Letters Non-departmental 
Computer Applications Economics English MOdern Languages 
Music 
Philosophy 
Psychology 
SociologyI Anthropology 
Theology 
Speech & Drama 

r-----------------------------·
SENIOR CLASS BASEBALL ADVENTURE Sunday, ma!l 13 
White Sox va. K.C. TICKETS 111.00 on aale TuesdGJ, W.clnesday, & Thutlday (Aptil 24, 25, 26) 12:30-2 pm In l.afoltuM 
I 

~---------------------------~ 

sponsored by the Student Union Cultural Arts Commission 
Engineering Auditorium 
j Tuesday, April 24 at 7, 9:15 anct 11:00 
. Wednesday, April 25. at 7,,9:15 and tt:OO Admission $1 

A1TENTION GRADUATING STUDENTS 
Measurements 
will be taken for 
CAPS and GOWNS 
Tuesday April 24th and .Wednesday April 25th between 9:00-4:30 at the 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
)' ' 

r 
The Observer Tuesday, April 24, 1979-page 4 

Don't leave school without it. 
Now that you're going out into the 
world, you're going to need the 
American Expresslt Card. It's indis, 
pensable, for vacations or husiness. 
But don't wait, because we've made it easier to get for graduates. All you need is a $10,000 job (or the promise of one). It'll be tougher later, so look for this display in the Student Center and other locations around campus. 
The American Express Card. Don't leave school without it • 
EXP-RESS 

.. • ~ ... ~.-... • • ' • • ... lr-.. ,.. .. ' I> ... .,. .... 

._____________ 
-"--~-­

''' 


Features 
Tuesday, April 24, 1979-page 5 

Sex Is Only Part of It 
Fr. Toohe_y 

e_ngaged ~ouple than for rwo people opposite sex, treat them more as sharing his daily life with a variety ofThey wanted to talk about sex. So 
we did. And because a recent news s_tmply l!stng each ~ther _fo~ gratifica­objects to be avoided (oftentimes young women, Playboy and other tion, with no basts of fnendship. because they threaten our insecurity) ''fonts of wisdom'' are liable to lead
report did not adequately convey what 
I was trying to say, let me repeat the Thus, though there is a gap berween than as persons to relate to and cherish him to believe that ''if you know one 
reality and gesture in both cases, the after the example of Christ. tyf.e of woman you've mastered them point: There needs to be a con-sistency failure and culpability is much greater aI ." between what we say to one another tn the second tnstance. so to
That's why it is lamentable (verbally and non-verbally) and what have seen countless students go Perceptive hall staff personnel and 
is, in fact, the truth about our Having said this, by way of clarifica­through four years without these si_gnificant numbers of students recog­relationship. tion (and agreeing that there is need healthy, maturing relationships. One mze the pr~blem, and wish to explore for much more discussion on this ac~es especially for the more shy, every posstble means of affordingNon-verbal communication, our ges­issue), let me move on to a topic that is quteter student, who is meant to opportunities for thes.e .he~l~hy,
tures with one another, do not create benefit from contacts and friendshipsthe relationship, they express it. And even more fundamental: the question grow~h-producing inte_r-relattonshtps. what we "say' in this fashion needs to of heterosexual relationships, basic with many others; but who more often In thts context, questtons about pari­
etals, v~riati_ons. in dorm arrange­

be true. That's the point: and that's contact and friendship with persons of than not, si~s at home on'a Friday or 
the reason there is a problem with ments, tmagmattve social activities 
. . thc:_opposiste sex. Saturday mght, or gets buried in
J: etc.'· become extremely important and 
studies, hoping to survive another perttnent.
pre-marital sex. The Chnsnan tram­1he alarming thing is the fact that lonely weekend. 
tion wisely acknowledges that sexual 
many do not seem to be aware of_the But all of this remains secondary tounion is body-language communicat­critical importance of these relatiOn­There are many signs in this the adoption of a basic attitude: The ing a most specific message. For the 
ships for normal growth and personal­community that document the fact that willingness of an individual to take the majority of pe~sons,, it says: "I am ity development. It......is ..all but we have here a tragic absence of risk to go outside of himself to meet 
' adequate familiarity about persons of new people; ta~~ng the _initiative toindispensable for human maturatton
yours; we are bound to one another, the opposite sex. One needs to note
tha• young adults have the benefit of
without limitation or conditions; I love the fact and sympathize with the introduce oneselt--10 a classroom or 
numerous heterosexual relationships
you forever; through our physicaJ problem; but also_ rc:~ognize that the dining hall; becoming involved m
that are prolonged, personal and
union I speak my total love for you.'' vanous extracurricular activities
informal.

Now, this is the language of Christian developmental challenge certainly where one can mtx and establish isn't met through means such as authentic friendships with persons of There is no option here. One does dormitory gossip, meditation on Play­the opposite sex.
marriage. The physical expression, 
not decide to exclude these positive boy centerfolds or the investigation of
the non-verbal communication, is 
growth-producing, defensiveness­A~~ telelvision sit-coms. All of this can be scary to manymeant to follow upon the clear reducing, relationships with a diver­young adults. Indeed, it can beestablishment of the fact of that bond si~y of persons of the opposite sex . No young adult will know much threatening to any of us. There is riskthough public and sacramental cele­
wnhout, by that very fact, deciding to about_ a p_erson of the opposite sex, involved. We all fear becomingbration. 
short-change human growth. even tf gomg steady, as long as he or vulnerable through our approach in The problem of pre-marital coitus is she is_ d_eprive~ of prolonged and friendship to "the mysterious other"
We simpty cannot normally develop 
the problem on inconsistency, the rather mttmate, mformal contact with 
as mature persons by cutttn~ off But, paradoxically, it is only through
problem of a breakdown in communi­many. A. young man, for example,
one-half of the human race. Wtthout that type ofgamble that one grows and 
cation: what two people are saying, needs to know that woman is much 
these numerous enriching expen­becomes richly-endowed
non-verbally, is not actually true. Of much more than ·an erotic machine.' the person 
ences, one is inclined to stereotype the God has challenvpd us t0 be.
course, it's closer to being true for the R,.t Pntil he has the experience of 
''Developing in the Nazz: a few Positive and a Negative for Double Exposure ' ' 
by Mark Rust 

Tonight is the last night of "Double the audience is often se~t into s~;as~s Leslie Melander designed looks very
'Mr. Natale, throughout much
Exposure," the latest Student Player of-laughter --to wtt, Kretsler s mLKh like a living room in anywhere offering. The play, which is staged in damning indictment of children's . suburbia and hides the entire south the Nazz, is technically well-done and ofthe pla_y, looks like he has books as "ichypoo pablum for tiny wall of the Nazz, completing the has generally been well received by tots." illusion. Dennis Brennan designed the full-house audiences during its first lights to meet the demand for simpli­
iust stepped offthe pages of
three showings, a tribute to both the 'Mr. Pizzato 's conception of city while helping to creare the acting and the friendly atmosphere of environment. His row of outdoor the LaFortune basement's coffee­Gentlemen's Quarterly.' high-intensity porch lamps angling
the whining, deformed, 
house. The play, however, suffers down from the ceilio_g above the stage 
from the attempts made by its author, works well, coupled with the glossy
is the macho ) ed ) ericho who, as his ) ack Sharkey, to make every line name im~;lies, is strong until the pathetic Bascomb shows an textured finish of Ray McGrath's 
funny, and in this sense the comedy in make-up efforts in giving the charac­
pressure ts on and his cool comes 
"Double Exposure" suffers from over­ters a plastic look, cut from a mould.
crumbling down. King's choice for the incredible imagination ... ' 
exposure. 
part is perfect: Mr. Natale, through­In essence, the overall effect ts out much of the play, looks like he has At the center, of course, is the plaY., good. The Student Players have done just stepped off the pages of Gentle­and the play has problems. It is butlt the best they could with a play that is 'The pla_y, which is staged in men's QuarteriJ. Erin Courtney, as around stock characters which by their at its best a copy of Neil Stmon and a Valerie Castle, ts very "believable" as very nature give th~ play the wetgh~ of its worst "ichypoo pablum for tinythe Nazz, is technical~y well­the beautiful blonde of storied stature age: the macho-man and his oppostte, tots," to borrow a phrase. The and studied ignorance. Dolly Holiday, the dumb blonde and the intellectual problem here is that the Players have done and has generalfy been playe!=i by Ginny McCarthy, is . the prude, the smart aleck housekeeper not taken on new challenges; it is time 
academiC prude and children's book and the cigar smoking capitalist, all for them to grow. With the same well received ... ' publisher who falls in love with the are concepts which seem dated, a part money, spaci;ll and technical limita­proverbial macho-man when she finds of another era in theater. And when tions they could still attempt an 
The Nazz, by the way, can be a very that he 'is the author of her brilliant they are placed in the realistic environ­Edward Albee play or rwo or --at least pleasant place to sta~e a play, particu­kiddies classics. Jamie Dore and Bob ment of a 1978 setting their disunity --a real Neil Simon. The Players have larly this type of ltght production. 
Sullivaa also turn in credible perfor­makes its presence felt. Additionally, When the set lies in the middle of the 
mances. the stock characters are methodical room, as it has in the past, the small 
But King's casting hand is particu­and predictable until, just to confuse 
'The student pla_yers have

larly evident in the rwo most inter­the issue in the end, the dumb blonde "cramped quarters." But when the 
size of the basement is evident as 
esting characters in the play: Sidney acts totally out of character pulling off set is moved to the south wall in Bascomb, played by Mark Pizzato, and a great feat of wit that changes the done the best the_y could do "Double Exposure" the room takes on Morgan Kreisler, played by Tom macho man into a mouse; it is a kind of the quality of the ''friendly confines.'' Nossinger. Mr. Nossinger's timing deus ex machina device that simply with a play that is at its best 
Reed King, director, used this to his as the cigar smoking plutocrat ts does not wash in 1979. In short, it is 
advantage in creating a small, person­impecable, and Mr. Pizzato's concep­pretty much like TV. 
a copy of Neil ~mon ... ' 

al environment conclusive to light, tion of the whining, deformed, pathe­Technically, the Student Players 
humorous theater. The set is an tic Bascomb shows an incredible have done the best they could with 
proven that they can produce, cast and

extremely realistic living room, and imagination that turned what other­both the LaFortune basement and the stage a successful production. To
wise would have been a "stock" highly stylized script. They have
into this environment stock characters , become a complete theater group, they 
are plunged for the purpose of character into his own creation. Both conceived the set in flesh and blood 'must prove that they can select asdelivering one-liners throus.hout the make a few of the more bizarre lines in terms and have given their characters well.
rwo scene, three act play. Mtke Natal-the script rome off so ludicmusly that a plast:c, distant dimension. ·The set 
I I • L j 
-------­

·---------­
··"1'"-. •••. ' 


r-
I ''I" I . I It I "I I, • J 
The Observer Tuesday, April 24, 1979-page 6 
Molarity 
Michael Molinelli Derian to 


The Daily Crossword 


ARmANDO'S ·r 
BARBER & HAIR 
STYLE SHOP 1437 N.lronwood Dr. South Bend 277-0615 
Sue, Ruthie, Kim 
Armlndo-stylist mon-wed-fri 8-5:30 
tues-thurs 8-Spm sat 8-2
by appt.·only 
sat-no appt:. needed 

ACROSS 30 Swab 1 European 31 Memoranda river 32 Old car 
5 Uthe make 10 Vipers 33 Letter 14 Commedia atlemative 
dell'-~ Literary 15B-.numbM ~~ 16 Blackthorn 38 Fresher 17 Postal rate 39 -Z (all) 19 Boracole 40 Kentucky 2D Sale items team 21 Martini 42 Toil 
items 44 Auto.pio­23 Swoboda and near . Neeaen 46 Check or 24 Secluded ship 
valley 46 Middle East 25 Mona -body of 26 Devasting water 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
e bookstore & the CCUM office-11th 

Proceedings o the --+--LATIN AMERICAN OISJ-OPS' 
CONFEREf\ICE, Puebla,NYzxico 

100 pages of the final document translated during the last days of the meeting • . • • . 
Chapters on: VISION OF THE CHURCH • FAMILY • CHRIST, THE CENTER OF HISTORY • HUMAN DIGNITY • LIBERATION AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT • IDEOLOGIES AND POLITICS • EVANGELIZATION • PREFERENTIAL OPTION FOR THE POOR • BASIC COMMUNITIES, PARISH, LOCAL CHURCH • LAITY • CHURCH'S ACTIONS AMONG BUILDERS OF A PLURALISTIC SOCIETY• INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY • PASTORAL OPTIONS • 
Cost: $3 
. :., 
speak at r 
civil rights · 
lectures 
Patricia M. Derian, assistant secretary of state for human rights and humanitarian affairs, wtll be the speaker at the eight annual Civil Rights Lectures of the Univeristy of Notre Dame Law School. The · principle discussion of ''Human Rights and American Foreign Polley" will be at 8 p.m. tonight in Room 122 of Hayes-Healy Cen­ter. A coffee hour with Ms. Derian will be at 9:30 a.m. ~ednesday. . 
The speaker was recently appointed by President Carter to the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, and a U.S. delegate to the Belgrade Conference. Prior to her state department appointment, she served on the HE~ Policy Planning Grou{' of the Carter­Mondale transition team, and during the presidential cam­paign was an advisor to Carter and a deputy director of the presidential campaign. 
Long active m civil rights related work, she has served as the .President of the Southern Reg1onal Council and an OEO Project Director. She was also the founder of the Mississippi Civil Liberties Unjon,.a member of the National _p-ris~on PrOject Steering Committee, and the Board of Directors of the Center for Community Justice. 
1979-so· cheerleading­squad selected 
During the week of April 1, tryouts for the 1979-80 cheer­leading squad were held in the Pit of the ACC.. Returning from last year's squad will be: Paul Broughton, Bill Leicht, Steve Muething, Mary Beth Dvorak, Margaret McGlynn, Amy Olin, and Loretta Ransom. · : 
The remainder of the-squad will be composed of: Mik.e Budd, Steve Pasley, Mike Reitz, Dan Robertson, Lisa Chavez, and Denise Offer. Muething and Olin will serve as the co-captains. 

,. 
.. 
.· 
,. 
:.. 
r .. 
i 
,·. 
"if 
i· 
_i-­
;, 
i 
~ 
. 
,.. 
49 Tunefor 
several 
voices 53 Cupid 54 Mailman's 
boss 
56 Cleopatra's 
river 
fiT Farfrom original 
58 Labbumer 

59 Venison sourca \.8) Wiser 61 Performs 
DOWN 
1 Louts 2 Faucet 
fault 3 Raiaond'­4 Edict 5 Mysteries 6 Irritates 7 Lupinqand 
others 8 Fleur-de-­9 Separates 

minerals .10 Requesting 11 Ruthenian 
12 Cator 
vault 
13 VIeWS 
18 Uncles: Sp. 22 Smallest 24 Relative of 
acroc 
25 Kindof 
train 26 Hogties 'D Angry 
28 Peterat 
the piano 29 Deity 30 Skirt style 31 Salmandera 33 Handle 
clumsily 34 Family cir-· clemernbM 35 Adjusts again ' 36 Stroked with love 
41 Basket 
carried on the back 42 Manofthe soil 
43-boy! 
46 Havinga dull sur­face 
46 Tear apart 47 Indian 48 Kansas 
senator 
49 Boiler room indicator: abbr. 
50 Preminger 51 Hawaiian 
bird 52 Mardi­56 -pro nobis 


AN TOSTAL PARTY IJOUTSIDEII 
TODAY 

SEER CHUGGING CONTEST

at

·-.

ALL THE BEER YOU CAN DRIHKI S3 guys S2 gltla 4 pm tlll~datk 
. ' ''' 


The Observer -Sports 
Tuesday, April 24, 1979-page 7 

• • • Bookstore 
{continued from page 8) 
next court, The Numnurs de­feated Chico Escuela... 21-6 with Mike Fa!ash's six points 
and 18 rebounds pacing the wmners. 
The Irish Guards II kept winning, defeating U.S. 21-17. The Guards were keyed by ] erry Anderson and Tom McGiyn who each had six points. Rich Mahoney had six and John Hank five for U.S. 
T.B. Express II, led by Tim Tripp (nine -for-17) and ] im Stone (seven-for-17) whip_ped Long Shot, 21-12. Dick Allison had four for the losers while Willie Moore crashed the boards to the tune of 14 rebounds for T.B. II. Other ~ames involving favored teams mcluded Strappamasquon and the Combat Wombat's 21-9 win over the Boilermakers along 
&okstore Note 
Lonnie and the Lugnuts had to be disqualified when it was discovered that they unknow­ingly had broken bookstore rules. Dan Frailey, listed as a wa Ikon on the 1978 football roster, was a fourth Varsity player on the Lugnets. Leo Latz said he regretted having to disqualify the Lugnuts because the mistake was obviously unin­tentional. Other varsity players were : Steve Cichy, Hardy Rayam and Bobby Leopold. 
' 

with Larry's Laundrymen, 21­13 winners over Hylozoics. Later WEB defeated ·Peeled Easy Living Paint, 21-17 with Stevie Wonder dumping 
Apogee 5, 21-11. TOday's action features a full 
slate of games,  slated  to  get  
underway  at  4  p.m.  at  all  
official Bookstore cites.  

• • . Interest 
Bookstore Boxscore 

Buford's ChenVplckers owr John Gacy's The Innocent Puppets over Whips,Boystown by 12 
Chalns...by 3

SMC over Lynn's Five Posits by 10 Off over Rosie's School bY 2Wally, Wally...over The Spades by 10 Pit Crew over Vaseline Alley by 14White Shadow over Dribbling Searr.~n by 10 
Who .Cares over the Gorls by 15 Five Freshmen Guys over Mor-Den Iron City Athletic Club over Gacy's
Winkler bY 2 Youths by 2 Question Mark over Five Feces by 8 Kamakazes over Tam Cannlbus bY 5 Dags over Murph...by 14 Oew Boys over King loads II by 9 John Gacy's Horne...over Not-Ready-For-West Side Welners over Hils's Angels byBookstore-Players by 9 2 (27·25 In OT)Beemls over Five Moons by 2 Drewbles over the Nads by 7 
Bookstore Brackets 

CHRISTIE BRINKLEY SEYSCHELLES BOB COUSY ~ECTIONAL (Stepan 7 ­
SEXTIONAL (Bookstore 9 -6:30) 6:30)Strappamasquon and His Combat Warn­West Side Welners vs John Gacy's Home bats vs Question Mark FATHER RIEHLE SECTIONAL (Lyons
NAPPY NAPOLITANO SECTIONAL 12-6:30) IB10btor110 • 6:30) Lonnie and the Lugnuts vs Beemis Butchers vs Wally, Wally, Wally MIKE DECICCO SECTIONAL (Stepan 2­
FATHER JOYCE SECTONAL (lyons 11-6:30)6:3;) Dags vs TB Express II White Shadow vs Chumps FRANK LEAHY SECTIONAL (BookstoreMOOSE KRAUSE SECTIONAL (Book­10-4:00) store 9 -5:30) Irish Guards II vs OFF Stevie Wonder vs Five Freshmen Guys... RAY MEYER SECTIOMAL (Bookstore 9­COLONEL STEPHENS SECTIONAL 4:45) (Stepan 3 -6:30) Larry's Luandryrr.en vs Drewbies the Numnuts vs Buford's Cherryplckers GEORGE GIPP SECTIONAL (BookstoreFATHER HESBURGH SECTIONAL 10-4:45) (Bookstore 9-4:00) The Pit Crew vs Who Cares? later WEB vs Future World leaders AUSTIN CARR SECTIONAL (Stepan 1 ­UTTLE CHUBBY RED-FACED MAN 4:45) SECTIONAL (Bookstore 10 -5:30) Iron City Athle~c Cl~b vs Pope1IDIIIJ~I
E Street Band vs SMC "I... ZIGGY CZAROBSKI SECTIONAL OAN DEVINE SECTIONAL (Stepan 1 ­(Stepan 1 -6:30) 5:30) . 
P.F. and the Fivers vs Innocent P~ts Kamakaze... vs Dew_B<!Ys 
Flag football finals today 
The Saint Mary's flag foot­downed McCandless, 6-0. The ball championships, which two winners will face off todayopened yesterday, featured two at 5 p.m. near Maddeva Hall to defensive struggles, as LeMans determine who will J;>lay the Hall defeated Holy Cross in Notre Dame champ this Satur­overtime 12-6 and Regina day
'·
' 
[continued from page 8) 

A spokesman for his office, Bob 
Wirz, told me, "The Commis­
sioner feels that the league 
presidents (Lee McPhail and 
Chub Feeney) are very capable 
of handling the matter, and he 
has confidence in them. Mr. 
Kuhn has said that he cannot 
foresee any circumstances that 
would call for his intervention." 
It has also been suggested that if the owners would apply pressure to the league bosses, 1t would also help. But it is very unlikely that the owvers would ever agree on anything that calls for paying out money. If playing conditions get much worse, however, thq~. may change their minds. 
It seems to me that if the 
parties involved are striving for 
the ''best interests of base­
ball,'' they are going about it in 
the wrong way. The leaKue 
presidents are stnading fast, 
and Phillips is too busy trying to 
round up support instead of 
trying to set-up negotiations. 
Many of the umpires have 
said that they re ready to sit out 
the whole season Those of us who truly are striving for the "best interests of baseball" certainly hope that they do not. 
• • . Irish 
[continued from page 8) 
day, senior captain Mark True­blood downed Paul Cantrell, 6-3, 4-6, 6-4. 
Freshmen Tom Hartzell and Tom Robison continued their winning ways. Hartzell won his eleventh of his last twelve matches, cruising past Dan Huddle, 6-1, 6-l, and Robison stqmped over Phil Dull, 6-2, 6-1, for his eleventh straight. 
In doubles, another fresh­man, Bill Pratt, teamed with Hartzell in the number three position to defeat Huddle and Dull, 6-4, 6-1. The top doubles combo of Hoyer and Harris beat Ballentine and Cochran 7-5, 4-6, 6-2. In second doubles, Hopwood fiHed in for injured senior Bob Koval and teamed with Trueblood to win con­vincingly, 6-3, 6-1. 

~ 

--·--,--------·------------~-----.~· -­

.... .... f 
~ 
32 teatns rentain alive in Bookstore tourney 
with Brian Halligan hitting
by Frank LaGrotta 
five-of-11 for the Sultans. 
Sports Wn'ter 
P.F. and the Flyers won their third overtime game with aThirty two teams remain in, 22-20 decision over the Doctorswhat many are calling, the most of Pink. Paul Flood led theexciting tournament in Book­number eight-seeded Flyersstore Basketball's eight-year with 10 pomts and eight re­history. Yesterday's action bounds with Lou
featured plenty of excitement, Pagley con­
tributing six points from thesome near-upsets and, for the field and pulling down 11fifth straight day, all the sun­boards. Mike Deasey and Bobshine and clear skies that South Bartlett each had s1x for theBend, Indiana ever dreamed of. 
losers.

But it almost rained on the 
The Chumps' as In other action involving top­
parade the ranked teams, Lonnie and the
tournament's number two­
Lugnuts relied on Steveseeded squad were given all Cichy's seven points to defeatthey could handle from Dr. K Peace, Love, Justice... 21-13. 
and the Four Shotglasses. 
Steve Notaro had six points forChumps won the game, 21-17, the winners with Peace, Love ... 
overcoming one, two and three­showing a balanced box.
point defiClts at different points John Paul 1.. .had a littleduring the game. Balanced trouble in the early going ofscoring kept the Chumps alive their game with Ntght of theas Rusty Lisch, Tom Sudkamp Living Dead but they pulledand Dan Short tallied five away down the stretch andapiece. Lisch and Sudkamp coasted to a 21-14 win. Billalso pulled down eight boards Laimbeer led all scorers withfor the winners while Tim eight points and 19 rebounds asLawless' seven points and Kris Haines also chipped in sixseven rebounds were tops for for the winners. Rod Linharesthe Shotglasses. Tom West­hit six-of-15 shots and pulledphal grabbed nine rebounds for down eight rebounds while Bill the losers. 
Ryan came up with 13 caroms and blocked four shots includ­Yesterday's results, ing of of Laimbeer's jumpers. Paul Kelly (incorrectly referedtoday's pairl.ngs to as Mike Kelly in yesterday's page 7 Observer) grabbed seven re­bounds for the Dead while Hicks Hickey put on a shooting
It was a little easier for The exhibition, sinking shots fromButchers who had little trouble as far as 30 feet.
disposing of The Sultans of The E Street Band dumped I Sw1sh, 21-9. Bruce Flowers Phelta Thi IV, 21-15 with Ianagain topJ.>ed the Butchers' Grey and Tom Lang eachboxscore With six points and 17 tallying six points for the Band. 
rebounds while teammate Pat Mike Lahrman sunk sevenWard also chipped in six from shots for the losers. On the
the field: Kevm Hart grabbed 12 rebounds for the Butchers [continued on page 7] 
ND soccer mows down 
Purdue despite the turf 
had control. When they did get
by Paul Partn'dge 
the ball however, they didn't
Sports Wn'ter 
waste any effort, as the' Boiler­makers scored twice on threeAfter Notre Dame's 4-0 vic­shots.
tory over Purdue on the astra­The second half brought with turfofCartier Field last fall it a vast defensive improvement Boilermaker coach Rich Briggs as the young Notre Dame was quoted as saying, "If we backliners settled down and ever got Notre Dame on grass executed effectively. The Irishwe'd destroy them. We're not offense continued to run wildused to playmg on astroturf and and scored five unanswered our players were fooled by the goals while the defense heldbounces. But if we could only Purdue to only two shots on net.
play t.~em on grass we'd kill If there was any doubt as tothem. 
the outcome of the game Kaha­Well, Coach Briggs got his le certainly dampened Purdue'swish Sunday as the Notre Dame spirits when his third goal gavesoccer team travelled to Cedar Notre Dame a commanding 4-2Lakes, Indiana to play a benefit lead after only 20 seconds had game for the Cedar Lake Jay­ticked in the second half. 
cees against Purdue--on grass. 
Kahale's play certainly had toAnd things couldn't have fa­make Irish soccer fans anxiousvored Purdue more, for the for next season, as the fresh­Irish were without the services man from Rome, Italy paced aof lettermen Dan McCurrie, well-tuned attack.
Tom Crotty, Bill Murphy, and There was some concern as toTom Luetkehans. 
the extent that Notre DameBut by the end of the game would be affected by the grad­the Purdue mentor was search­uation of center forward Terrying for another surface as Notre Finnegan, but the play ofDame, led by Sami Kahale's 
Kahale, Kevin Lovejoy
three goals, broke open a 3-2 (2 goals), Bill Wetterer (1 goal,game and destroyed the Boiler­1 assist), Mike Mai (1 goal) andmakers 8-2. 
Tim Nauman(! goal) can onlyThe Irish, starting four fresh­leave the questioners optimis­men, had trouble defensively in tic. It was an impressive effort the first half, as the Purdue for the first game of the spring. 
forwards were left uncovered in Meanwhile, rumor had 1t thatfront. Luckily:, though, the Purdue coach Rich Brigss wasNotre Dame offense was mov­
checking into the po5sibdity of ing the ball so well that the playing Notre Dame on quick­Purdue forwards very seldom sand next year. 

Tuesday, April 24, 1979-page 8 
., 
Irish netmen beat Purdue , fall to ISU 
_ by Mike Ortman Sports Wn'ter 
WEST LAYFAYETTE--Notre Dame's tennis team split a pair of intrastate matches this past weekend, losing to Indtana State on Sunday, 6-3, then bouncing back to defeat Purdue yesterday. 
In yesterday's match, the Irish clobbered the outmatched Boilerm~kers, 8-1. The win evened the team's record against Big Ten competition 3-3, and improved the slate to 14-8 overall. ­
The Irish took all three of the doubles matches and five of the six singles, with number one Mark Hoyer being the only loser, dropping his match to Bro Ballantine, 6-2, 6-2. 
Number two Carlton Harris downedJohn Cochran, 7 · 5, 6-1, and number three Herb Hop­wood squeaked past Steve Prueter, 7-5, 7-5. In the only three set singles match of the 
[continued on page 7] 

In nobody's best interest 
This is the second ofa two-part series on the recent action taken by baseball's umpires. 
One might thing that the salary figures for umpires in the major leagues would be a factual Michael 
. matter. After speak10g wtth the league offices and the umpire's attorney, I found out that these 
Ortman ... figures are somewhat a matter of opinion. 
A spokesperson for the American League told me that the avera~e salary for an umpire was American League spokesman, ''that the con­$30,000, not just 10 that league, but in both tracts we have offered meet the requirements leagues combined. The National League layed down in the collective bargaimng agree­spokesman said the average was $33,000. ment of 1977.'' 
If two different figures weren't bad enough, The leagues really couldn't produce much the umpire's attorney, Richie Phillips insisted more of an argument, other than that. Thev that the average was only $27,000. All three pointed out how much they have offered, and left parties did agree that the minimum was $17,500, 1t at that. They did point out, however, "If we but I got contlicting figures on the maximum offer them more money now, what's to say that salary. The leagues agreed that the highest five years from now, they (the umpires) aren't payed umpires were offered $41,000 for 1979. going to do the same thing?" Phillips disagreed. Phillip's argument was somewhat more 
''They're lying to you,'' he insisted. ''Nobody elaborate. He likes to compare the umpires to was offered more than $40,000." the officials in the National Basketball Associa­
After hearing this from Phillips, I called the tion who he also represents. 'lhe average NBA National League office once again and told the official makes more than twice as much per Public Relations Director, Blake Cullen, what game as an umpire or about $12,000 more per Phillips had said. Cullen was outraged. ''If he year. That figure really doesn't bother me, doesn't think that anyone was offered over however. I figure that an NBA official works at $40,000, then he's full of (excrement), and I will least twice as hard as an umpire during their tell him to his face. Ask him how much Ed respective games. Vargo was offered. Ask him how much Doug But Phillips pushed his argument further. Harvey was offered. If he doesn't think that any "Bowie Kuhn's salary was increased by $50,000 of them were offered over $40,000, then there's in 1978 and again (by the same amount in 1979. no place to go (with negotiations)." The reason for the increases was to make his a 
Phillips may have been thinking about last salary commensurate with the Commissioners' year's contracts and Cullen was referrin~. to this salanes in the other two sports (football and year's offerings. However, one umprre, Bill basketball). Now if the Commissioners can be Haller, did make over $51,000 in salaries last paid the same, why can't the officials?" This year, including his World Series extras. doesn't bother me either. Although I think that 
Cullen explained the pay structure for the the Commissioners are grossly over-paid, I do National League. "Our league pays out about think that the differences between the sports' $33,000 in salaries for the average umpire, officials are far greater than the differences almost $10,000 each in benefits (retirement, between their Commissioners. Blue Cross Blue Shield, dental care, etc.), and All Phillips is asking for, on behalf of the then, ofcourse, the $53 per diem. Then they get umpires, is a total increase of $520,000, or about payed for extra games too -$1,500 for the $10,000 per man. That comes out to $20,000 All-Star Game, $6,000 each for the playoffs, and per club. Phillips claims that although not all of then there's the three poor guys who have to the owners are willing to part with that much stick around and take $11,000 each for the World cash, "many of them are." Series. All together, our league pays out over $2 So that brings us to the core of the problem · million for umpires each year.'' negotiations. As Phillips insists, and as he has 
Nevertheless, the ump1res are relatively well convinced his little puppets (the umpires), "If paid -not as well as the players (and face it, we start talking, this could be settled 10 a day." people don't buy a ticket to see the umpires), So who's not talking to who? Your guess is as and not as well as they'd like to be, but good as mine. Both sides are accusing the other nevertheless, well paid. Umpires are in the top of not wanting to negotiate. The next logical 7 percent of America's wa~e earners. Of the 24 question is, ''What is needed to trigger umpires in theNational League, 14 were offered negotiations?' ' contracts which called for salaries in excess of Many have suggested, and rightly so, that if $30,000. the Commissioner would step in, it would help 
The two sides of the issue look like this: considerably, but he has persistently declined. Predictably, the leagues feel that the umps are getting plenty. "Itis our position," said an [continued on page 7] 
• 



