
-·-------~--------­
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Port '\Vorkers' strike 
cuts Iran's oil exports 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Iranian oil exports apparently were choked off yesterday by a shutdown of the country's only crude oil P<?rt. A 
U.S. official said the shutdown may have stemmed from a stnke by port workers. Initial reports came to administration and congressional sources from the CIA. 
The reported shutdown at Iran's Kharg Island came as the United States sought to negotiate the release of about 60 hostages held by militant students at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran. The students and the government are demanding that the deposed Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlevi be returned from New York to face trial in Iran. 
There had been threats that the revolutionary government might halt oil shipments to the United States in an effort to enforce that demand. 
A State Department official said initial reports indicated that the suspension barred all tan~ers from loa~ing, not OJ.?-lY th_ose of t~e United States. The official, who dechned to be Identified, said initial fragmentary reports suggested that the shutdown involved a strike. 
Last winter's cutoff of Iranian oil exports, which led to a world shortage ofpetroleum, came when workers shut down the oil fields in support of the revolution. 
The State · Department official said there was no official explanation of yesterday's shutdown nor was there any indication of how long it would last. 
At the White House, an aide to President Carter said reports of an oil shutoff had been received ''but not confirmed.'' At the time the reports were made public, Carter was meeting with his National Security Council to discuss the Iranian hostage situation. 
Ali Agah, Iranian charge d'affaire in Washington, said he had no information about a shutdown of oil exports. 

Lyons, Morrissey to have top priority 

HPC allocates funds for social space 
by]ana Schutt StaffReporter 
The main topic of last night's HPC meeting was money. Members of Student Govern­ment announced the allocation of an estimated $40,000 of University funds for improving hall social space. HPC budget allocations were also approved. 
Bill Vita, student body vice­president, explained that the administration has earmarked funds for social improvements in accordance with a proposal made by a committee composed of Thomas Mason, vice-presi­dent for business affairs; Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vice-presi­dent for student affiars; Donald Dedrick, director of mainte­nance; Fr. Michael Heppen, director of university housing; Fr. Gregory Green, assistant vice-president for student af­fairs; Jose Marrero, student government executive coordi­nator; Frank Guilfoyle, student government cabinet member; and Vita. 
The money has, at present, been divided between 15 dorms w~th Lyons and Morris­sey on the list as the highest priorities. Work on these two dorms began yesterday. Mon­ey will be spent for such hall improvements as new carpet­ing, refrigerators, and panel­ling. Detalis of the uses will be worked out between Fr. Hep­pen and dorm rectors. 
According to Marrero, ''The allocations were based on two goals: to give the dorms a party room and to provide them with a 24-hour lounge if they so desired.'' 
Some of the money will also be available for dorms to buy furniture. This will be done on a cooperative basis. The dorms will provide a sum and the administration will attempt to ineet that sum. 
In addition · to these funds, maintence is going forward in dorms where problems were discovered. 
This move by the University is seen as an extremely positive action by all parties involved. 
Vita said, "This money will certainly add a great deal to the quality of life in the halls. The administrators with whom we worked were open, helpful and truly committed. They are the ones that pushed this measure through." 
"Jose, Bill and Frank have done a lot of work on this project. Most people thought nothing would come of it. Instead we've managed to come up with the single biggest commitment to soe1al space by the University," said Bill Roche, SBP. 
"Of course this won't solve all of the problems, but this is a big step in the right direction. We consider it a real accom­plishment and are really excited about it," he added. 
All of the student government representatives present at HPC voiced the opinion that the administrators with whom they had worked were extremely · committed to the aleviation of problems of social space on campus. 
''I am really pleased with the optimism and cooperation that we have received from the administration and the concern shown by the Board of Trust­ees. They realize that this is an on-g·oing problem and hope to keep the line of communica­tions open. Our committee will be monitoring the progress of the project for the rest of the year," said Marrero. 

Don Cianco, executive coordi­nator of HPC announced the decisions made at the HPC budget hearings held last Thursday. A total of $13,840 was distributed among the dorms for use, in addition to the administrative funds, for dorm improvements. 
In other HPC business, Ther­ese Tavis spoke to council about the new course evaluation book­lets which will be distributed tomorrow. 
Tavis explained, "This year the evaluations were done for all colleges, instead of just Arts and Letters. They go into more depth than the mimeographed sheets available in department offices.'' 
Student Government task force will deliver the booklets to the halls, near the mailboxes. They will also be available in the Student Union office, in department offices and in LaFortune for off campus resi­dents, according to Tavis. 
Bart Henderson, president of Soria Hall, protested the out­come of the Homecoming Dec­oration Contest run by Student Union. According to Hender­son, the contest was cancelled without notification of the halls. 
This cancellation was due to a decision by the HPC not to submit a refundable $25 regi­stration fee to the Student Union prior to the contest. Henderson contends that the $25 was not presented to the council as a registration fee but 
[continued on page 10] 

Parent, Kovach win zn local mayoral races 
by janet Rigaux Senior StaffReporter 

Roger 0. Parent, the heavy favonte in the South Bend mayoral race, won last night by 
a  margin of 9229  votes  in  an  
unofficial tally.  
His  closest  contender,  H.  

Chris Overgaard, a local busi­nessman, received 9590 votes. 
A third candidate in the South Bend race, Hugh Aughinbaugh, a retired 72­year-old running on the Amer­ican Party ticket, received 285 votes. 
In a closer race, Robert Kovach is ~the new mayor of Mishawaka defeating incum­bent Margaret Prickett by 500 votes in an unofficial tally. 
According to Jack Colwell political reporter for the South Bend Tn'bune, "500 votes is a pretty safe margin to say Kovach is the defimtive winner. The officail tally will not be in until noon tomorrow, but I don't that will change the results.'' 
Kathy Barnard, Parent staff 
U.S. refuses Iranian demands 
(AP) -Washington officials 
said yesterday the United 
States will not use force to free 
about 60 American he : • ·; 
threatened with dead. ~ .~.n­
onstrators occupying 1ae· Amer­
ican Embassy in Tehran and it 
expects Iranian authorities to 
protect them. 
The Palestine Liberation Or­
ganization, which has good 
relations with Iran's Islamic 
regime, said it would send a 
delegation to Tehran to save the 
hostages' lives. 
U.S. oil company executives in Washington reported an inter­ruption in Iran's oil shipments to America and ,aid it appeared a threatened oil boycott of the United States had begun. 
Protection of the embassy captives is now the responsibil­ity of Ayatollah Ruhollah Kho­meini's revolutionary council, which the religious leader or­dered to run the country after Prime Minister Mehdi Baiargan and his Cabinet resigned yes­terday. Both Khomeini and his council have been issuing state­ments backing the embassy invaders' demand that ousted Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi be returned for trial. The shah is in a New York hospital undergoing treatment for can­cer and the United States has said it will not send him to Iran. 
President Caner convened an unscheduled meeting of the National Security Council to discuss the crisis that flared with Sunday's embassy take­over. He called tht: meeting after conferring with his top 
[continued on page 2] 

supporter indicated the win was  
an important one for the demo­cratic party. "Parent won and  
so did most of the rest of the  
ticket  except  for  a  few  pre­ 
cincts. We feel it significant victory."  is  a  very  
Voter apathy was apparent in  
South  Bend  as  less  than  50  
percent of the registered voters showed up at the polls as  
reported by the Channel 28 6 o'clock news.  
It was  a  different  story  in  
Mishawaka.  There 72 percent  
of the voters turned out to elect  
. Kovach matching the 1972 high  
voter turn out.  
In a lackluster race in South  
Bend,  the  major  issues  dealt.  
with redevelopement of the downtown area and neighbor­ 
hood revitalization.  Parent,  a  
Notre  Dame  graduate,  is  a  
long-time supporter of down­ 
town redevelopment. The Mishawaka race center­ 
er around Prickett's Jon~ tenure  
in office.  If elected, thts would  
have  been  her  fifth  term  a'S  
mayor of Mishawaka.  
1  
..  


News in brief 
Kennedy to debate Carter 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Carter and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy have accepted an invitation to debate each other at a newspaper-sponsored forum in Iowa in early January, it was learned yesterday. A White House official, who asked not to be named, said the president had accepted an invitation to the forum sponsored by the Des Moines Register and Tribune. The Des Moines Register confirmed yesterday that Kennedy also had accepted the invitation. The Massachusetts senator was expected to announce today he will challenge the president for the 1980 Democratic prt"sidential nomination. The Carter camp believes that the president will be favored in a debate between the two on Issues. "The president intends to run on his record," a Carter aide said. "It i5 our impression that Sen. Kennedy intends to run away from his.'' 
5ex test causes suspension 
ST. PETERSBURG , Fla. (AP) -School administrators wert>n't pleased when lOth grader Linda Heath passed out a questionnair•· an teen-age sexuality, so she spent her 15th birthday on Sl ·;pension. Thr two-page survey, a project for Miss Hea•h's IOth-gra.ie )rmrnalism class at St. Petersburg High School. asked sturlenrs ,,. respond anonymously to question.,, su~h a.,: Dv you fetl there is pressure to have sex? 
Are you a virgin? Would you consider abortion? Is contraception necessary? Do you believe in premarital sex? Miss Heath, who served the one-day suspension Monday, ~aid she would appeal. She said she had misunderstood the administration's denial of permission for teachers to distribute the questionnaire in their classes to mean she wuld pass it out herself, which she did during lunch and between classes. She said the issue was important tc> teen-agers, noting the school's guidance department told her 1~ students became pregnant last year and seven 1 pregnancies had been reported at the school so far this year. 
1 
Court blocks oil lease 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Supreme Court Justice William J. Brennan Jr. yesterday blocked the sale of oil-drilling leases in the Georges Bank, a major Atlantic Ocean fishing ground off New England's coast. Brennan, acting on an emergency" request to postpone the opening of bids for the offshore oil-drilling rights, said no bidshould be opened until furtht"r word from him or the full Supreme Court. Brennan's 1 one-paragraph order was released at 3:40 p.m. It said a temporary postponement allowed by a federal appeals court so he could consider the emergency request "is hereby cominued pending .funher order of the undersigned or of the 
, court.'' The action threw a major monkey wrench into the bid-opening process. Under procedures set up by the federal government, all bids not opened by midnight Tuesday must be returned to the oil companies submitting them. 

Weather 
Partly sunny today. High in the low to mid 40s. Increasing clouds tonight with a good chance for rain late, possibly beginning as snow. Low in the low to mid 30s. A 50 percent chance of rain likely tomorrow. High in the low to mid 40s. 


CamP-_u_s-----~ 
12:1) 
p.m. SEMINAR "turnover & release of soluble peptidoglycan by neisseria gonorrhoeae," dr. rosenthal, ind. 

u. 
school of medicine, GALVIN AUD. 


4:20 p.m. COLLOQUIUM "interactions of fast molecular ions of matter," dr. don gemmell, 118 NIEUWLAND 
6:.~0 p.m. MEETING sailing club, 204 O'SHAG 
6:30p.m. MEETlNG, off campus council, LAFORTUNE 
7 p.m. MEETING, landlord-tenant relations, LAFORTIJNE 
7, 9, 11 p.m. FILM "the mouse that roared," ENGR. AUD. 
7 p.m. FILM "die nibelungen--part 1, siegfried," AV THEATRE CCE 
7:30p.m. SLIDE LECTURE, mark perlman, LAFORTIJNE LITTLE THEATRE 
7:30p.m. LECTURE, non-euclidean geometry, prof. howard BULLA SHED 
8 p.m. LECTURE, "new ways to stop the flight of factories," randolph barber, ARCHITECTURE AUD. 
-----·--. 

Wednesday, November 7, 1979 -page 2 
• • • Demands 
of oil shipments to the United ties for the time being, Teh1an
[continued from page 1] 

States, which receives up to 5 radio reported in a broadcast foreign policy advisers. No percent of its total oil imports monitored in London. details were given. from Iran. Addressing the hostage issue, · The PLO said Yasser Arafat Carter administration sources Khomeini, speaking from the has ordered a PLO delegation to said the Central Intelligence holy city of Qom in a radio Tehran to "secure the lives" of Agency has determined that broadcast reported by the Sovi­the embassy prisoners. loading of U.S. oil tankers was et news agency Tass, said: 
Hasan Abdel Rahman, deputy halted at Kharg Island, Iran'a "Some people are now pressing PLO observer at the United main oil-loading terminal. that students should leave that 
Nations 10 New York, told U.N. Secretary-General Kurt embassy. But we cannot sit reporters he had been informed Waldheim is "extremely con­idlehanded when the United that the PLO delegation would cerned" about the situatiort and States is weaving conspiracies leave Beirut, Lebanon, for Teh­1s trying to help mediate a against us. We demand that ran early today but he did not peaceful solution, his spokes­the United States should extra­know if PLO chief Arafat would man said at the United Nations. dite the criminal shah to us, and be in the group. the British government should
He gave DO details on whom 

Arafat has met with Khomeini extradite criminal Bakhtiar," a
Waldheim was speaking with 

10 the past and forged an reference to Shapour Bakhtiar,
but pointed out that Iran had 

alliance between his guerrilla prime minister under the fallen
ratified vanous international 

organization and Khomeini's government of Shah Moham­
accords for the protection of 

revolutionary Islamic govern­med Reza Pahlavi, who is now
diplomats.

ment. Rahman said Arafat being treated for cancer in New 
Khomeini ordered his council

''has sent instructions to our York. 
to run the government after

office m Tehran to use all Added Khomeini: "We shall
accepting the resignation of

possible means to secure the take other steps if this is not
Bazargan earlier in the day.

lives of the hostages.'' He said done and if these criminals are
Later, the council asked the

Arafat's move was "unilateral" 
ministers to continue their du-[continued on page lOJ
and PLO officials had not discussed it with U.S. authori­ties. 
One U.S. oil company officer 


r:;;;-j~T~RT~RK0Ro1
in washington' who asked that he not be identified, quoted l{fi-~'9 In the 100 Center I "usually reliable sources" as. saying Iran has begun a boywtt 
I~ offers 10% off on I 

Beaux Arts clue 
The first clue for the Beaux Arts Ball tickets and r{'ward is: 
"Reaux Arts 1s Under­world yet no sod has been turned.'' 
For mort" information, see story on page 7. 

_The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Ann Monaghan Asst. Night Editor: Suzy Marshall, Dave LaBerge Copy Editor: Michael Onufrak Layout Staff Margaret Hoskinson, Eddie Holden News Editor: Mike Shields Features Layout: Kathy Connelly Sports Layout: John Smith Sports Copy Editor: Mike Olenik Typists: Nancy "Moses" Malone, Tina Terlaak, Paula ''Come to my Happy Hour Friday" Shea, Mary Beth Budd, Kathy Murry EMT: Kim Convey 
Proofreader: Mike Lewis ND Day Editor: Keith Melaragno SMC Day Editor: Kathy Domanico Ad Design: Matt Desalvo Photographer: John Macor Guest Appearances: John "Where's the contac?" McGrath, Margaret "Huddle Run" Kruse 


The Observer !USPS !ill 920] Is published Monday through Friclly IX· cept during exam and viCitloft periods. The Observer is publlsllld by tilt students of Notn 011111 nd Slint Mary's College. Sublcriptila lillY Ill purdlned fDr S20 per year l$11 per ~~m~~terJ from The Observer. f'.O. blx 0. Notr11 b11111. Indiana 46556. Slcend class ~e paid. Notn 011111, In­diana . 
Tne Observer Is 1 llllllllllr If till Asloclatld Pms. All 1'111' IIIIIIC.1IIn rigllh lrl l'lllf'fld. 

I -EVERYTHING II with ID & coupon I 
records, tapes, paraphernalia .I
L 




····················~· 
· e The ND Student Players Present •
• 

: STOP THE WORLD :
•~ ....•
W' 1 11 •• nt.;JO"Wnn· 

:I WANT TO G~T OFF:
• 

e Nov. 9,10,16,17 e
• •e
e Washington Hall 8pm 
: Admission $1.50 : 
•

•.......••...........,• 
the the Nazz presents . . 
thurs. nov. 8th Bobby Stone and His Rhythm Rockers. 9-12 
Fri. Nov. 9th 'Sometimes Two' 9-10:30 featuring Joe Statzer C.J. Eggbeer 
Steve Dressel 10:30-? 
Sat. Nov. lOth jazz with 
Paul Bertolini Mike Franken Don Ginocchio Jeff Hanson Mike O'Conner 9:30-? 
.J 

"'·~•"··"'?..r~.r,..,"ff,,..l!","!1"',or!!'!!.. !!I'.,"!'£~!!"£....1!1.'!!".-."'!"£.'!!"'.~.1111!1.•!"'!!.•'!!!.,..,..,..!!!!!!!!!!!.-~--~--~!!'!.!.'1'.111!. ..,._...._ __,}, i~-.....--------"""' 
The Observer Wednesday, November 7, 1979-page 3 
In yesterday's elections 
Cleveland ousts Kucinich 

(AP) -Dennis Kucinich, the maverick mayor who withstood a recall election and two de­faults on Cleveland's city debt, lost his bid for a second term Tuesday while Democrats turned aside spirited Republi­can challenges to retain govern­orships in Kentucky and Mississippi. 
John Y. Brown, a flamboyant millionaire businessman, de-. feared former Republican Gov. Louie Nunn in Kentucky, while former Lt. Gov. William Winter won in Mississippi. 
Ohio's Republican lieutenant governor, George Voinovich, led Kucinich, a tart-tongued anti-establishment Democrat, 87,501 to 68,406 with more than 90 percent of Cleveland's vote counted. 
"We sacrificed the mayor's office because we refused to bow and serve to the money power of this community," Kucinich told his disappointed supporters. 
The nation's voters selected 
dozens of big city mayors in yesterday's "off year" el~c­tions. 
In Philadelphia, former U.S. Rep. William J. Green easily defeated Republican David Marston in the race to succeed Mayor Frank Rizzo. 
Boston Mayor Kevin White was reelected to an unprece­dented fourth term, defeating a fellow Democrat, state Sen. Joseph Timilty. 
Former Rep. Donald Fraser, a Democrat, won the Minneapolis mayoral race against a field including former Mayor Charles Stenvig, and Mayor Ted Wilson easily won reelection in Salt Lake City. 

In San Francisco, Mayor Dianne Feinstein trailed Super­visor Quentin Kopp with percent of the vote counted. Mrs. Feinstein, appointed to succeed George Moscone after he was slain last year, was trying for the third time to be the first woman elected to the job. 
[continued on page 12] 

Canidates sought to speak 
Mock convention plans take shape 
by john Cassidy 

''The Republican M~ck Co~­vention selects as the1r candi­date for president ... " That's the sound that will be heard next March 7, but even now plans for Notre Dame's Mock Convention are being con­ceived. 
Bill Kresse, chairman of the Mock Convention said, ''The party platform is alr~ady being developed and candidates are being sought to speak here. Ben Fernandez of California is already tentatively scheduled to speak on November 15." 
•The convention will be run just as the Republican National Convention, only on a smaller scale. "We try to follow the rules as close as possible with a few modified restrictions. One of these will be that we' II have a fraction of the amount of dele­gates that the actual convention has. Hopefully, we'll have 1000 delegates as opposed to the 1900 or so at the national convention," said Kresse. 
The convention will open on March 5 and run through March 8. Selection of a presidential candidate will be on March 7 with the choosing of the Vice-president March 8. 
''At the last convention in 1976 the late Senator Hubert Humphrey was selected with Julian Bond as his running mate. 
''Upon selection Humphrey wa.s contacted by telephone and the conversation was heard at Stepan.. Center where the con­vention is held. The candidate will be called again this year and it should be one of the highlights of the convention," sa1d Kresse. 
The '76 convention was for Democrats. The party out of office is always the party to hold the convention. 
The convention is student-run 
with Prof. Ca.rleton Sterling of 
the Government and Interna­
tional Relations department as 
an advisor to help in the 
planning. Expenses are paid 
for by the Student Activtties 
fund with an allotment of 
$5,000. 

The Mock Convention was 
founded in 1940 by the late 
Prof. Paul Bartholomew who 
classified it as, "A course in practical politics.'' This is the tenth convention smce 1ts cre­ati~n with only the 1944 presi­dential election being missed 
due to World War II. 
In the beginning the conven­tion was only open to govern­ment majors. In 1956 it was finally open to everyone when Saint Mary's was allowed ad­mittance. 
On November 14 anyone inter­ested in running a presidential campaign should contact the central planning committee. All Republican candidates plus anyone who is qualified will be allowed. support in the mock convennon. 
"There will be a state chair­man from every state. Ideally, the chairman . should be a resident of the state he repre­sents, but the delegates he selects don't have to be. The convention will be very cere­monial. There'll be a promi­nent member of the party as a keynote speaker each night, a formal invocation, and a band,'· said Kresse. 
''The central planning com­mittee sets up the convention, but it is up to the students to make it work,'' Kresse noted. 
PRESENTING.: 

An Evening With Livingston Taylor Wednesday Nov. 14 
Bpm O'Laughlin Aud 

Reserved Seats ·--$5.00 
~ ii!!!IIIIIIIII!IIIUI!iili.!lillliilili 


--~-----~-~ 
~-------------~-..... 
The Observer Wednesday, November 7, 1979 -page 4 
' 

-Observer­needs Typists 
-llllllliil Apply to Day Editor 
The Observer Office Phone 7471 
The Observer Advertising Department has an opening at the position of Assistant Advertising Manager 
-Work lunch hours and afternoons -Modest salarv -Opportunity for advancement -Excellent business and managerial 
experience for students. 
Please contact Bob Rudy at 283-7471 or 287-2793 If you are interested in the position and want more information 
-Sophomore and Junior business majors or those with previous related experience are preferred 




Khorneini's power grows in Iran 
by Thomas Kent Associated Press Writer 

The fall of Iran's tottering civilian regime would put the country under the formal con­trol of the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and his allies .. end­ing the infighting that was a major source of chaos but increasing the likelihood other ser-ious problems will boil over. 
For months, many Iranian intellectuals, political liberals and members of national minor­ities have regarded Premier Mehdi Bazargan's government as their closest ally in the revolutionary regime. His re­signation yesterday, if it goes through, could sharply increase political tensions, observers be­lieve. 
Khomeini has called for a shutdown of "non-Islamic" po­litical parties and has dismissed dissident ethnic minorities as the dupes of "imperialism" and ''communism.'' 
Seventy-year-old Bizargan, a 
Forum panel 
broadcasts 
discussions 
"America in the Year 2000" 
is the subject of a Cambridge 
Forum panel discussion series 
to be broadcast over WSND-FM 
at Notre Dame on Wednesdays 
from I to 2 p.m. from today 
through Jan. 30, sponsored by 
the First Unitarian Church in 
South Bend. 
The Cambridge Forum, begun in 1967, is held live weekly at the First Parish Meeting House in Harvard Square, Cambridge, and features lively debate a­mong faculty of Harvard, Rad­cliff, Tufts, Brandeis and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (M.I.T.). 
The series begins Nov. 7 with "Energy in the Year 2000," featunng Robert Seamans, Henry Luce Professor of Envir­onment and Public Policy at 
M.l.T. Other programs, deal­ing with various topics in the year 2000, are: Nov. 14, science; Nov. 21, the arts; Nov. 28, information resources; Dec. 5, the world economy; Dec. 12, the American ideology; Dec. 19, government; Dec. 26, fami­lies; Jan. 2, education; Jan. 9, hunger and food; Jan. 16, transportation; Jan. 23, reli­gion; and Jan. 30, nuclear. 
Each Wednesday evening of the broadcasts, discussion of the week's. program will be held at 8 p.m. at the Unitariar Church in South Bend. Printed transcripts of the broadcasts can be purchased in advance. For further information, contact the First Unitarian Church. 

devout Moslem, is known as a soft-spoken human rights cam­paigner with a reputation as a skillful trouble-shooter in Irani­an politics and a political mod­erate. 
The premier, a former profes­sor, tried to put Iran's rou~h­and-ready revolutionary jusnce under state control. After the February revolution, courts Joyal to Khomeini ordered the execution of hundreds of secret police and politicians from the days of the monarchy, but Bazargan campaigned for all cases to be handled by estab­lished government courts. 
Shah Mohammed Reza Pah­lavi was forced to flee the country before the revolution. He is being treated for cancer at a New York hospital now and students loyal to the Ayatollah are demanding the shah's ex­tradiction irt'exchange fo¥' hos­tages they have held since they took over the American Embas­sy in Tehran on Sunday. 
1 Sources say government offici­. als had urged Iranian modera­1 tion in relations with the United ·States, but Khomeini has been far more harsh in his attacks on 
Americans. 
The Islamic Revolutionary , Council, which reportedly took 1 over Bazargan's powers, is a 
secret body close to Khomeini 
believed to number about -15 
persons. 
The elimination of the govern­,ment from the Iranian power 
structure would leave the Re­
volutionary Council, autonomy­
minded ethnic minorities, liber­
al intellectuals and leftist 
groups as the main competitors 
for a say in how Iran is run. 
The Revolutionary Council is likely to retain full control over the state radio and television, the army, the government's police and the legions of armed 
Khomeini Revolutionary 

guards that often competed 
with . the Bazargan police for 
power. 
Liberal intellectuals have sup­port mainly from outside the country, as well as from some workers disillusioned with Khomeini's failure to carry out promises to end unemploy­ment, poverty and other social ills. Liberals have lirmted access to the national press, which is not totally controlled by the regime. 
-~--~-~--­
The Observer Wednesday, November 7, 1979-page 5 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Sen. RogerJepsen R-Iowa, proposed a compromise plan yesterday to salvage the ailing Chrysler Corp. through a combination of federal aid and reorganization under the bankruptcy laws. 
''Limited federal aid can be used to smooth Chrysler's tran­sition from a full-line carmaker to a smaller, more specialized firm which all analysts agree is necessary,'' Jepsen told the Senate. ' 
Jepseu made his proposal as a House subcommittee prepared to hear testimony on the Carter administration's proposal for $1.) billion in federal loan guarantees to Chrysler. 
A spokesman for the economic stabtlization subcommittee of the House Banking Committee said Treasury Secretary G. William Miller and Sen. Russell Long, D-La., chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, would testify today. 
The subcommittee will act on the proposal later this week. Under the administrationJian the loan guarantees woul be 
~ondj.,t.~<;>q~~2.11 C~r-ysler obt~in­
mg a ftke amount of financmg without government backing. 
In Detroit Monday, Michigan labor leaders said they are concerned about a proposal to withdraw $1) million from the pension funds of seven unions for a mortgage loan to the nation's No. 3 automaker. 
Gov. William Milliken of Michigan has proposed the use of state-guaranteed pension money for a mortgage loan on 

open mon-sat 2pm-3am 

·.·. ~T~~s \ 
§:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
RESEARCH 

CANADA'S LARGEST SERVICE 
Send now for latest catalog. Thousands of termpapers on all subjects. Enclose SS.OO to cover return postage. 
ESSAY SERVICES 
87 Yange Sl. Suh• 15114 Toronto. Onwto, C.nt1de ~1.. 
(416) ....549 

Chrysler's Highland Park head­quarters. 
Chrysler has said it expects to 
lose $1 billion this year. 
Officials of the auto firm have said filing for reorganization would not work because people would be unwilling to buy cars from a company that was in bankruptcy court. 
Jepsen, however, said reorga­nization would protect the com­pany while ensuring that its owners and creditors ''will bear their share of the cost.'' 
In bankruptcy proceedings, a federal judge is empowered to reorganize a failing company and postpone payment of its debts in an effort to put the firm back on its feet. 
"In my view, it is impossible for Chrysler to contmue to operate as it has, as a full-line carmaker," Jepsen said. "The sooner the company begins to make the transition from full­line automaker to a more speci­alized automaker like American Motors, the better. " 
He said the limited aid that would be part of his proposal would be for the protection of workers, not stockholders and creditors. 
The Senate Banking Commit­tee plans to begin hearings on the administration's Chrysler aid proposal Nov. 4. 
Intelligence head Kitn kills Park for office 
SEOUL, (AP) -South Korea's powerful intelligence chief assassinated President Park Chung-Hee without military or foreign help in a miscalculated attempt _to install himself as president, according to the final report on the investigation is­sued yesterday. 
The plot is spiced with myster­ious women and a misfired gun, but the report places the blame for Park's death entirely on KCIA chief Kim Jae-Kyu, a close adviser to the president. 
"He had the illusion he was best-suited for president,'' the report said. "He miscalculated that he could exercise influence over key leaders in the govern­ment and military." 
The report said Kim began plotting alone in June to assas­sinate Park and his chief body­guard and most trusted adviser, Cha Chi-Chul. The KCIA chief planned to have martial law declared as a first step to installing a military regime, eventually to be headed by him, it said. ' 
The night of Oct. 26, when Park was killed in a dining room at a KCIA building, Kim sought military support for his plan by luring army chief of staff Gen. Chumg Seung-hwa to a restaur­ant nearby, it said. Chung, now martial law commander, re-. fused to join the plot. 
At a news c'onference follow­ing release of the report, chief investigator Gen. Chon Dooh­wan vehemently denied the 
U.S. Central Intelligence Agen­cy or any other outside power 

was involved in the plot. The report said eight persons have been arrested and will be 
·tried in an open military court at an unspecified date. They include Kim Jae-kyu, presiden­tial chief secretary Kim Ke­won, five KCIA agents who killed four of Park's bodyguards and wounded another, and a KCIA agent who destroyed evidence. The maximum penal­ty for murder under Korean law is death. 
The report said 111 persons were interrogated during the investigation, a·1d 78 have been released. The remaining 3Y... persons will be witnesses bu.i it was unclear if they ~tjJI e being derai:l('ci 
Senior Arts Festival 
•

organ1-zes 
Kim Gumz, chairperson of the Senior Arts Festival, an­nounced yesterday that this year's Festival will be held from April 9-16. All seniors are invited to participate in poetry or prose, musical presenta­tions, drama, film, dance, painting, sculpture and other arts. 
Anyone interested should contact Gumz (7977) for more information. 


The Observer Wednesday, November 7, 1979 -eage 6 
SAVE UPTO SO%TO DENVER. 
This year Continental is really the skier's airline. Our hotels, rental cars, lift tickets, whatever you need, whether Super Saver fares to Denver, Colorado Springs, El Paso you're a hot-shot hotdogger, or a first-time-out bunny. For and Albuquerque can save you up to 50% off regular Coach a free color brochure with the details, write to Continental depending on when and where you fly. And we'll take you Guaranteed Holidays, P.O. Box 18918, Irvine, CA 92713. to the slopes from more cities than ever before. We recently Seats are limited and there are some restrictions with introduced nonstop service to Denver from Las Vegas, our Super Saver fares, so check Washington, D.C., Peoria, San Francisco, San Jose and with your travel agent or Conti­New York/Newark. · nental Airlines. Have a high 
Continental has a full range time in the mountains at our of ski packages to your favorite rocky-bottom price. INDIANAPOLIS 317-846-5591 resorts, too. We'll help arrange <C 1965. 1969 Cy Coleman and Dorothy Fields. SOUTH BEND 219-287-8878 Notable Music Co.. Inc .. and Lida Enterprises. Inc. 
CLASSES BFGIN DEC 10 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The when they ran for president. cult times, but I think we've 
way the story goes, when John He has been in the Senate mat.e some good progress, " was president and Robert was longer than they were and there Kennedy says.his attorney general and Ted are volumes of speeches, de­
They have three children,

Kennedy was thinking of run­bates, hearings and votes avail­Kara Anne, 19; Edward Moore ning for the Senate for the first able for anyone who wants to 
] r., 18; and Patrick Joseph,time, their father told them: know where he stands.

Kennedy 
12. But he is perhaps known best With Kennedy an official can­"You boys have what you through tragedy: the assassi­didate for president, a lotmorewant now and everyone else nations ofJohn and Robert, the people will look beyond thehelped you work to get it. Now World War II death of Joseph legacy of his name and at hisit's Ted's turn. Whtever he

begins run 

Jr., followed by the death of his record.
wants, I'm going to see that he sister, Kathleen, his own brush The record has earned him agets it." 
with death in a plane crash, 100 percent rating from that They have been gone a long Chappaquiddick, the alcoho­bulwark of liberalism, the A­
for nation's 

time, the brothers and the lism of his wife, Joan, the mericans for Democratic Ac­father, and Edward Moore cancer that claimed the right tion. And the ultra-conserva­Kennedy has been a United leg of his son, Ted Jr. tive Americans for Constitu­
States senator for 17 years, He is the Kennedy who waited tional Action rated him near 
longer that 8 5 of his colleagues. zero.
10 hours befo~e reporting the
highest 

Now that Ted is finally taking death of Mary Jo Kopechne at Yet Kennedy claims he is not ahis turn -announcing today that Chappaquiddick. He is the liberal in the' classic mode. Hehe's ready for the presidency Kennedy who was booted out of says he doesn't think govern­that John had and Robert tried Harvard for letting a stand-in ment can do everything better,to get -he is helped by the most take his Spanish exam. He is or that Under' Sam should
office 

precious legacy left by the the Kennedy with the reputa­always fine-tune the economy.
father: The Kennedy name. 
tion of a womanizer. 
The issues where KennedyThe youngest of Joseph Ken­His wife has lived in Boston in and Carter differ are few and nedy's sons, at 47, is older than recent years while fighting well known -principally nation­
either of his brothers were alcoholism. "We've had diffi-al health insurance and energy. 
SHOULD SKI US NOW 
The two are. in general agree­ment on taxes, regulatory re­form and foreign policy. That means the campaign may focus more on style than substance. 
Like most New England De­mocrats in Congress, Kennedy opposes all attemfts to lift price controls from oi and natural gas. Carter wants to phase out such price ceilings. 
On national health insurance, Kennedy at first proposed hav­ing the government pay all medical costs. But he has slimmed that down to. his current proposal with a pricetag of about $40 billion. That is one-third as costly as his origin­al proposal but twice as expen­sive as Carter's plan. 
Kennedy knows better than anyone the special risk a Ken­nedy has in running for presi­dent. "I don't have a false sense of danger,'' he said recently. "I have a realistic sense of it, but I'm not ob­sessed by it. 
Heshburgh 
•

recteves medal 
Father Theodore M. Hes­burgh, president of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, was award­ed The College Board Medal for Distinguished Service to Educa­tion Monday during ceremonies at the Board's National Forum in New Orleans . 
.Father Hesburgh was cited for' 'his national leadership and service in the advancement of educational opportunity, and demonstrated commitment to the principles reflecting the mission and purpose'' of the College Board. 
In presenting the award, Dr. Norman C. Francis, president of Xavier University of Louisi­ana and chairman of the Medal Selection Committee, noted, ''Father Hesburgh has exerted far-reaching influence in the expansion and equalization of educational opportunity, and although L)~is Jead_ers,hip .go~s beyord the campus, he ts regarded as one of the most distin~uished college presi­dents. 
The College Board Medal was first presented to niue educational leaders in 1976 as part of the Board's 75th anni­versary observance. 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 
-~~CG~IE~

CONTINENTAL AIRLINES~ 
U.S.A./Canada/Mexia,IHawaii/Micronesia/ Australia/New Zealand/Fiji/Samoa/and the Orient. 
CPA 
REVIEW 

-----------------. 
The Observer Wednesday, November 7, 1979-pag~ 7 
Labor voice contributes in European corporations 
LONDON (AP) . The proposed same table as management.'' elevation of Douglas Fraser Germany's move toward president of the United Aut~ ''mitbestimmung,'' or co-deter­Workers, to the Chrysler board mination, began in 1920. of directors breaks new ground World War II interrupted, but in the United States but It's old industrial bosses who fled the hat in Europe. ' industrial Ruhr in fear of the 
Many European nations have Alli_es later _trickled ?ack t? find learned that a labor voice in their factones runnmg Without management does not guaran-them. tee industrial peace, increased Subsequent laws provided for productivity or "industrial de-nearly a half share for workers mocracy." on big companies' supervisory 
Worker representation on boards, which oversee manage-boards of directors or other ment boards in West decision-making bodies is firm-Germany's two-tier system. ly established in West But union spokesmen say the Germany, Australia, the board chairman's tie-breaking Netherlands and the Scandin-vote is the real key to power. avian countries. The commun-Others complain that represen­ist countries of Eastern Europe tatives of white-collar unions also have highly developed .are inclined to vote with man­machinery for workers to have a agement. say in management decisions. A status report on other 
In contrast, Britain, France, European nations: Italy and Switzerland have few Austria: Workers must have or no worker-directors. Britain one-third of the votes on super­and Italy are among the. five visory councils, roughly equiva­countries most seriously affect-lent to the shareholders meet­ed by labor troubles, based on ing of a U.S. corporation. working days lost to strikes. Workers are not represented on But Switzerland ranks top for company boards. industrial peace. Belgium: Union representa­
' 'Strikes are not decided by rives are on boards of state the supervisory board," says firms. Large companies have a J oery Barczynski of IG_ Metall, workers' consultative body. the metal workers union in Britain: Unions are strong Frankfurt, West Germany. but have little or no representa­
"You don't believe anyone tion in the board room except in works more or better because state-owned enterprises such as there happen to be labor repre-the Post Office and British sentarives on the board.'' Steel. The labor government 
Where workers are included commissioned studies which on boards of directors, labor proposed steps, never imple­representatives often complain mented, toward ''industrial that employers still manage to democracy.'' The current render them powerless. Conservative government 
"Union members on the favors employee participation board arrive at a loaded table," through stockholding. says Karl Alf, a metal worker Denmark: Corporations with ombudsman in Sweden. at least 50 workers must have 
In some countries workers two employee representatives have ways that stop short of the on their boards. But, says one board room to influence man-· worker representative, agement decisions -participa-"Workers will have no real tion in supervisory councils and influence in management until agreements for consultation they control 50 percent of the with management. shares.'' 
In Italy, the Federazione France: Worker participation Lavoratori Metalmeccanici won is nonexistent, but worker 
..forJts,1.5 million members the councils within industries right to be informed about and confer with management on examine companies' produc-working conditions. tion, employment, budget and Netherlands: No workers are expansion plans. But spokes-on company boards, but com­woman Teresa Marchesi! says, panies with . more that 100 
''Our model is to participate employees must have ''work through conflicts and contrac­tual agreements but not at the [continued on page 10] 
'Underworlds ' theme highlights Beaux Arts Ball 
by Mike 0 'Bn'en one that co-chairman Behles 
says could inspire costumes 
It is well known that architects ranging from gangsters to fish combine several aspects of to ghosts or goblins. construction to create a build-Included in the !3 admission ing. It is becoming more and cost ($3. 50 at the door) are more known that architects can refreshments and entertain­also bring together rich tradi-ment by ''The Humans'', a rock tions with interesting themes to and roll dance band. create a unique Notre Dame Although Behles said the Ball event· the annual Beaux Arts is the major social event of the Ball. year for architecture students, 
The Beaux Arts Ball is accord-he stressed that the whole ing to co-chairman Joe Behles, student body is invited. Com­a yearly costume party spon---.. menting from his personal sored by the University Archi-memones of past dances, Beh­tecture students and set in the les called the ball "a high tradition ofa similiar event held energy affair'' bordering on the by the Beaux Arts school of ''wild and crazy''. Architecture in Paris, France. In conjunction with the· affair, The original masquerade was the dance committee will hide well attended by the elite of two tickets to the Ball as well as Paris often including royalty an added surprise somewhere and members of the aristo-on campus. Clues to the cracy. treasure's whereabouts will be 
The Notre Dame Beaux Arts published in the Observer. Ball is scheduled to begin at 9 Further information on the 
p.m. on Saturday in the Archi-Beaux Arts Ball can be obtained tecture building. This year's by calling Joe Behles (233-5422) theme is ''The Underworlds'', or the Architecture department. 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) The international makeup of Purdue University's student body and its faculty's world­wide reknown should be vital assets in the struggle to free political prisoners around the globe, a human rights activist says. 
Barb Edwards, one of the organizers of Purdue's new Amnesty Internation_al chapter, says some West Lafayette resi­dents are no strangers to human rights violations. 
A Purdue student from Hong Kong said his father, a military instructor under former Nation-
Fellowship announces program 
National Science Foundation Graduate Fellowships are avail­able to applicants who are citizens or nationals of the United States as of the time of application, and, at the time of application, have not completed postbaccalaureate study in ex­cess of 18 quarter hours/12 semester hours, or equivalent, _in any science, engineering, social science, or mathematics. 
A complete NSF Graduate Fellowship application must be submitted in order to qualify for funding consideration. 
Applicants may obtain appli­cation materials from the Fel­lowship Office, National Re­search Council, 2101 Constitu­tion Avenue, N.W., Washing­ton, D.C. 20418. 
The deadline for applications is November 29, 1979. 
Language class changes 
to new time 
There has been a time change for Intensive Beginning J apa­nese (MLJA) 113. The class will meet at 11 MTWThF instead of 1 M1WThF as ap­-eared in the preliminary sche-1 dule of courses. 

alist Chinese leader Chiang Kai-shek, still is being held in China almost 30 years after the Communists took over. 
A former Purdue student from Argentina, now living in northern Indiana, told the group how government agents came to her home, raped her sister-in-law and then took her boyfriend, her brother and her sister-in-law to prison. 
The woman, who asked not to be identified for fear of retalia­tion against family members still in Argentina, said it was four months before she discov­ered where there were being held. 
''They (government officials) told me that 'Who is not with us is against us,"' she said, adding, "My story is the story of a lot of people in my country." 
Edwards said she was sur­prised and delighted at the response to her efforts to establish a chapter. About 50 persons showed up for the organizational meeting, includ­ing professors. 
Those professors could use their leverage to obtain the release of prisoners or ensure their safety in foreign countries, she said. 
"We could probably be one of the most efficient chapters in 
Campus Delivery In LaFortune 
just dial284-4841 egulat boring: hou asement .of..LeMan 



the state. Purdue is famous in agriculture, engineering, science, physics and chem­istry," Edwards said. "AI relies on pressure to govern­ment officials, and if an impor­tant physicist were to start writing and signing petitions, they're going to look at them a lot more closely." 
Such tactics have proven successful in the past, she said, siting a Canadian nuclear physicist who used his leverage as a member of a nuclear regulatory board to obtain the release of a political prisoner in Paraguay. 
The country had asked Canada to build a reactor for it and was sensitive to any delays because of human rights. 
The chapter, formed earlier this fall, is waiting for !he international headquarters to assign it the cases of two political prisoners. AI mem­bers will then write to the countries holding the individ­uals and try to hasten their release. 
_rnll~ ~mrnrn~rm 
100 Center Shoppin 
Compl~Jx 
ph , 255-8661 
Party Trays Bargain P~ices and 10% off with Student ID 
WIN!! 
Au-Bowl 
~ 
.,..,.
~------~----~--~ 



-

Wednesday, November 7, 1979-page 8 
Features 
NDGradat ,WN"DU Anne Duffy "It's tough to get in to TV broadcasting. I would say that I was lucky," saysJoh!l Sparks of WNDU TV when discussing his personal reactions to the busmess. Sitring relaxed on the sofa, arms folded the ND alumnus continues. ''TV is not glamorous at all, which is hard to believe. It's work," he saY,s, and adds, "the biggest problems are nerves." He went on to explain that jittery nerves result from not having enough time to research a stor¥ carefully and check out everx fact. "Yet, you can't afford to.be inaccurate.' To Illustrate his point, Sparks recalls that three times in the last two weeks, he was called out to do a report for the 6 p.m. news and did not return to the studio until 5:30 p.m. He bad a half an hour to prepare the story to be conversational, yet factually and grammatically correct. Born and raised in Miami Floriaa, Sparks came to South Bend in 1973 to attend the University of Notre Dame. He graduated with a degree in American Studies and became a reporter, photographer, weekend weather man, and video tape editor for a station in West Palm Beach, Florida six months after his graduation in 1977. He came to WNDU this year and is presently co-anchoring, producing, and reporti~g the late news. . He notes that an education provides prospective broadcasters wlth a good background, yet it cannot practically prepare a person for the work. Sdiools can teach diction and quick comprehension, Sparks conceded, but they can't teach a person to be an announcer. "He needs to have common sense and the desire to get outside experience. Journalism degrees are a dime a dozen,'' he says. Grinnin&, he adds that "training starts when you are young. You either­have it or don t when you go to school." Furthermore, Sparks holds that the self confidence and ability to "roll with the punches" necessary for broadcasting must be a pan of the makeup of a person desiring a career in  Student Players -Getting UnderwayGerard Curtin To the casual observer, it must seem Arts Commission The Student Play­that theater productions are rampant ers receives financial support. these days. Broadway is enjoying' The Student Players have dealt patronage unimaginable a few years primarily with light, entertaining ago, and plays by new writers are plays, musicals, and comedies. The being successfully presented all over first production was a comedy by Neil the country. Most cities, and some Simon, "The Star Spangled Girl". larger towns have a theater group in ~mong the plays they have presented restdence, or at least ready access to m the past are; "You're A Good the live stage. This enthusiasm has Man, Charlie Brown" a musical spread to many colleges and univer­based on the characters in Charles sities, as is illustrated by the forma­Schultz's '"peanuts" comic strip, tion of performing groups supported and ''The Fantastics' ', a very succes­and run by students. sful musical. Happily, Notre Dame is no excep­In preparation for the upcoming tion. with the "Notre Dame Student production, each semester, a director Players". The "Student Players" is IS chosen who then submits a list of an mdependent student group which plays he would like to do. One of the presents plavs of its own choiCe each plays on this list is selected, and is semester, in conjunction with the presented by the Student Players. Cultural Arts Commission of the Student Union. Five years ago, Lou Spisto, a former Notre Dame student, saw a need at Notre Dame for an independent  

television. They are qualities not taught in school. 
Part-time practical experience in broadcasting is essential for a broadcasting student, Sparks says. He cites two reasons for this prerequisite; stations do not hire anyone without some previous exposure to the field, and the student may change his mind once he gets a taste of the business. 
Sparks says that he thought he wanted to go into radio broadcasting as a freshman at Notre Dame. He sought pan-time employment at a local station, WRBR. "When I got my job at WRBR, I got disillusioned. I felt I was wasting my education screaming into a microphone at 14-year olds all day," he comments. 
Discussing his aspirations in the broadcasting field, Sparks reports that he would like to some day be a network reporter or a free-lance reporter. He expects to move on to bigger cities before he settles down. 
"Right now, I'm learning all I can, I'll worry about my future in the future." 
Horsing Around in Michiana Patty Sheehan 
Have you ever wanted to go trail riding but have never been on a horse? Or do you feel like gening a beach ride together but don't know of the perfect spot? Or how about learning new techmques to practice on your horse back home? If you can answer yes to any of these questions then the opportunity to ride in Michiana awaits you! 
One of the most popular riding stables frequented bx Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students is Michiana R1ding Stables, just off I-94 in Michigan City, about a 4 5 minute drive. They offer a 41 I 2 mile trail over 61/2 acres of land. The guided trail ride is $6, a solo trek is $8. 
Vanous types of riding are offered, including En~lish Hunt Seat and Flat Sear. For those not familiar with horsey jargon, ' Hunt Seat" riders wear protective helmets called hunt caps, and guide the horse over fences with both hands on double reins. ''Flat Seat'' riders work the horses in a ring at a walk, trot and canter, cueing the horses to move at the desired gaits. 
Alicia Wright, the instructor, gives private lessons for $12 per hour, $9 per hour for two to three people, and $7 per hour for four or more. Michiana Riding Stables is open every day from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. and lessons are given on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fndays, and Saturdays. 
The owner, Hetty Mezei, points out that their evening activities include an 18-mile beach ride in which they supply the food at a cost of $18 per person. Hay rides pulled by draft horses can be organized for 25-30 people for about $3 per person 
More than just a weekend rider? Three years ago, students regularly participated in a riding program with Laughing Place Stables in Niles, but the owner s death forced 1t to close. Tom Kerner, the owner of Four Flags Stables, has "captured the tradition of Laughing Place" with the help of Betsy Walthan, a former instructor at Laughmg Place. Riding lessons in Hunt Seat in a Ring, Hunt Seat over Fences and English Equitation are given with a string of 12 Thoroughbred and Thoroughbred-Quarter horses. This includes indoor and outdoor arenas, and hunt and jump courses set on 25 acres of land. Sessons are offered on Saturdays and Sundays from 10 a.m. on for $10 per private lesson and $8.50 per group lesson. 
Four Flags Stables is located on Red Bud Trail, six miles north of Buchanan, about a 20-minure dr!ve. Judg~ng clini_c~ have been ~eld and plans are being made to hold a handtcapped-ndtng c!Intc 10 the spnng. 
Amidst the activities of English nding, Western ridmg reigns in the West and Midwest and is very popular in the Michiana area. One of the most qualified and most convenient stables for Western riding i:s only 15 minutes away off of U.S. 31 in Niles. Keith Heil' s Training Stables is situated on five acres of land and Margaret Lang, the instructor, offers lessons in Western Pleasure and Equitation using the stable's 20 Quart~r horses. 
"Western Pleasure" riders work the horses in a nng at a walk, tro~. and canter, usinR one hand on a single rein and si_tting in a saddl~ with. a hor. "Equitation involves improving the techniques of the nder to h1s performance with the horse. 
A heated indoor ring is used for private lessons at $15 per lesson and group lessons at $10 per lesson. Group lessons are held on Saturdays 11:30-2:3; and private lessons can be scheduled with the instructor. 
Niles is also the town of riding stables that specialize in certain aspects of riding, such as Don Alsbro's Stables, training in Flat Seat only. Michiana Morgan Stables works only with Morgan horses. More information r "'Cerning these stables or any of the others described above can be obtained 
~•llctJ -.. Patty Sheehan #''>120 (SMC) . 
that would 
All photos are of this semes­
ter's Student Players Produc­
tion, "Stop The World I Want 
To Get Off'' 
[By Beth Prezio] 
plays of its choosing, in its own way. Out of this need, the Notre Dame Student Players was born. Originally the group operated with no support from the University, but now, through the auspices of the Cultural 


This semester's production is "Stop the World, I Want to Get Off' , directed by Notre Dame sophomore Jeff Mousseau. Remarking on the upcoming production, a musical, Theresa Rebeck, the publicity direc­tor for Student Players said, "There has been a tremendous amount of work put into this play. The cast has worked very hard on the choreog­raphy and music, and it looks like it will be an excellent show. Since we have worked so hard on this, we'd really like to see a lot of student support ... it should be an entertaining evening for all." 
"Stop the World, I Want to Get Off'' will be presented by the Notre Dame Student Players on Friday 
and Saturday, November 9 and 10, and Friday and Saturday, November 16 and 17. Performances will be at 8:00p.m. in Washington Hall. 
---~~ --·~-----:.M"".·-~-­
The Observer FEA'I'URES Wednesday, November 7, 1979 -page 9 
Consider Ireland. 
Last September, twenty-four Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students boarded a Dublin-bound Aer Lingus 747 at Kennedy Airport in New York. They were the second group of students to be sent ro study at Saint Patrick's College, Maynooth, through Saint Mary's Ireland pro­gram. 
memories fuse together to form an intangible collage of life within the Irish culture; a time of castles, cliffs, and a not-too-distant desperate struggle for power. 
Irish History tutorials. Listening to the Irish students rage against cen­tury-old British oppression, then watching them subside into helpless 

I was one of those students, chewing on my passport and strug­gling with my eighty-pound back­pack, wondering how I would be able to survive a year away from my family, friends, and God forbid, Taco Bell. It didn't seem possible. 
I not only survived, but regard my eight months on that far-away island as a high point of experience and education. Images of Ireland return to me at a photograph, a tune, a chance meeting with another ex­Maynoother. Confetti-sized bits of 
[Photo by Molly Woulfe] silence. Escaping to the canteen tor an eight-pence cup of tea, and feeling I'd led a very sheltered life. 
Ifyou hate the British Army, clap your hands. Ifyou hate the British Army, clap your hands ... 
Maynooth's first toga party. "Give us a fag." Yoplait yogurt for twelve pence at Kevy Mack's. 
The "66" double-decker bus into 
Why so little laughter in our churches? Why the scarcity of laughter in liturgtcal celebrations? 
My reflections originated at a prayer service I once attended. No less than four distinct periods for the observ­ance of silence were indicated in the pamphlet for the service. What would happen, I thought, if someone slipped in a directive to laugh? I could see the theological brows pirouetting already! . 
How would a congregatiOn react to such an unprecedented directive? The times I have heard congregation­al chuckling have been few, what I enjoyed most was not the laugh~er itself, but rather the bravery of lts incongruity. 
When you thing about it, laughter is conspicuously absent from any for­mal gathering or worsh~ppers. We have silence and weepmg at wed­dings more silence and weeping at funerals. During regular services, there is that inseparable combination of silence and solemnity. I contend that it is time laughter be elevated to an honored position in divine wor­ship. 
Don't get me wrong -I am not proposing to disenfranchise other forms of adoration. These expres­sions hold time-honored positions in church tradition, and I would be the first to affirm their value. . But if we are to have services reflective of human capacities and if we go before our Lod as ourselves, totally and completely human, why then should we suppress our pro­pensity to laugh? . 
Some would say that laughter 1s much too temporal, cheerful and picayune to be suitable company for 
Yet I believe Jesus laughed eagerly and robustly, and I wilhngly forgive the holy evangelists for overlooking 
Dublin. O'Connell, Grafton Street. Good God, the Golden Arches.. ,W arching the Maynooth basketball , team plar. Trinity. 
Dr. Eileen Kane's anthropology 
lectures. "Sausages, chips, and 
beans AGAIN for tea?" A pint or two 
and a game of foosball at the 
students' pub. Graduation Ball. 
Thumbing to Galway to track down 
third, fourth, and fifth cousins--found 
some living in the same thatched 
cottage my great-grandmother had 
grown up in. Trying to convince 
them I did not want to marry the 
farmer down the lane, despite his 
great herd of cows, thanks. 
Wednesday night discos; Rod 
Stewart, Smokie, Ian Drury, oh, no, 
Boney M. again? Alright, Boomtown! 
Then the slow set begins with 
Garfunkel's "Bright Eyes." 
Thursday morning hangovers. 
Irish Culture Class. Tara, the Hill 
of Kings. Passage graves at New­
grange. Solitary strolls down the 
deserted strands of Innas,'"Ieer, one of 
the Aran Islands. 
''Fiddler on the Roof.'' Jews with 
Irish accents? The song contest. 
Graffitti in Belfast; "IRA--I ran 
away." "Peace in, Brits out." On 
charred brick walls. Armed soldiers 
in the streets. 
A five-month mail strike. Running out of oil, sleeping on mattresses around an electric fire. "Hey, that's MY hot water bottle!'' 
And, of course, socializing and philosophizing in the pubs, over pints of Guiness ("Just Between Friends"). Closing time; "Have ye no homes to go to!'' Quick stop at Fusciardi's for fish and chips. 
Two inches of snow! Betng pelted by tinkers. Snowball fights m the canteen. 
The funeral of a friend's father, in Cork. Watching the wooden casket being lowered by ropes into a rectangular gaf in the earth. Resigned eyes o the widow and sons. 
I alone break down, the stranger. 


Molly Woulfe 
A last folk session, and hitting the books in earnest. "Well, how many papers do you have left now?" Sport's Nite, Break-Up Dance, exams. 
Time is running out. One roommate begins to pa<;k. 
''Won't you stay, just a little bit longer? Please, please, please, say you will.'' 
[Photo by Bernie Ryan] 
Walking home from a last parcy at 
5:45 a.m., stopping to watch the morning mist dtsappear in the fields behind the low stone wall. 
''Will you write?'' Scribbled addresses on pub napkins and torn flaps from cigarette boxes. 
Dublin airport. · 
Looking back, there's only one incident I regret about my sophomore year abroad--and that occurred upon my return to the States. At the Customs desk at O'Hare Airport, an official demanded I pay duty on a bottle of whiskey I'd stowed away in my carry-on satchel. Penniless, the first words I shouted to my parents on 
American soil were "Hey, can you throw me some money?! '' 
I wish it could have been "thank you"--for letting me go, and for welcoming me back. 
Laughter in Liturgy k 
Bob Bernows i 
that fact in the urgency of their communiques. IfJesus in fact knew the eternal, incorruptable and divine. But t!lis i!? man's opinion, but I don't believe it is God's. 
Somewhere in the evolution of religiqus consciousness we created an ever widening gap bet ween what was considered sacred and what was considered profane. Consequently, this has determined what would or would not be used in church services. Our eyes became too discriminating 
. and the umbrella of s~nctity was not made large enough to adequately cover all the blessed things in life. the worthiness of all creation to come before the Lcrd shrank to a fraction fo creation, compact and manageable enough to be stbightjacketed in sober solemnity. A chronic Iaugher I am not. Yet for any healthy life laughter is essential. If I were to end a day without once having laughed, I would consider that [Photo, by Meg Breslin; 

day rather empty. With laughter the mundane is made tolerable, what is tense is made pliable, and the intimidating seems inconsequential. 
Laughter is universal, soothing and e-nriching. So, I ask, shall laughter continue its exile in our streets, our homes and our parties? Or shall it at long last be admitted into the territory of the sanctuary? 
One may say Scripture is mute as far as a jolly god is concerned. God punishes and thwarts. He condemns and annihilates. His son was mocked by the crowds, persecuted by ene­mies, abandoned by frie~ds and nailed to a cross. Towmg the burdens ofa sinful mankind leaves no opportunity for laughter. In the New Testament we are told]esus wept. But nowhere does it say Jesus laughed. Messiahship, we are led to beheve, is a draining job. 
the Father, he must also have known what a card the father really was, is and will be. The Father's now-you­see-me-now-you-don't incognito ap­proach, is unequaled mischievious­ness. Burning bushes, gentle b(eezes, clouds and doves,, are typical of this merry masquerader. Would anything other than divine_ wit send a man and his family on a forty 
day cruise with a ztio? 
There is a level of understanding which automatically reveak L 1e lex non-scripta (unwritten law1 o~ life: All things were created with a smile, the smile was beautiful. 
Look around. God left ample evidence of his comic intent. He formed us from the very ·'u: t we purch~evacuums to elimina~.: .. He exalts e lowly and brings down the mighty. e dupes us with apples and staggers \us with grapes -The Archetypical Top Banana. 

Filled with }\{is Spirit, we have done well in exte'nding this heavenly jocosity. God gives us the seasons, and we use them to gab. He gives us our gender, and we use it to blush. He gives us a mind~ we can forget, and professors who will remind us. Goa does it all with love, then calls us to his side, saving the besr laugh for last--triumph over death. 
Good laughter is far from dispens­able. It is serious business and mastery the art of laughter is worthy grace. With a more comprehensive vision of holiness, the lessening of restrictive and austere worship be­comes all the more probable. Liturgical gatherings will blossom and I presume, God will be tickled pink at the prospect. 

--~

F ' 
The Observer Wednesday, November 7, 1979-page 10
.. 

WSNDISLoo~ngfotan 
Assistant Genetal ffianaget fot Public Relations. 
This is a paid position call 7425 between :.-. 
2 -4pm for details ···································································· 
• • • Detnands 
[continued from page 2] 
not expelled from those coun­tries.'' 
The British Embassy in Teh­ran was seized by students on Monday and about 30 persons were taken hostage as demon­strators demanded Britain turn over Bakhtiar, whom they thought was in London. Bakh­tiar announced that he was in 
• • . labor 
[continued from page 7] 
councils'' which employers must advise and consult with on major decisions and finances. 
Norway: Companies with more that 100 employees have worker committees. In joint­stock companies, workers have one-third membership on de­cision-making boards, owners two-thirds. 
Soviet Union: The no··strike unions govern wages and out­put quotas and can request firing of higher officials, says Alexei Shibayev, chairman of the All-Union Central Council of Trade Unions. He adds: ''There are more than 70 man­agerial functions requiring the consent of trade union commit­tees and 20 such functions which come wholly within the 
competence  of  the  trade  
unions."  
St>ain:  Workers  are  repre­ 

sented in companies with 25 or more employees. 
Switzerland: Proposed laws for worker participation failed in a 1976 referendum. In a climate of industrial peace there is little likelihood of revival. 
Yugoslavia: Grass-roots managerment is a fundamental principle. of Yugoslavian-style commumsm. 
• • • HPC 
[continued from page 1] 
as a bond to force dorms ro 
decorate. If the money was not 
paid, the dorm would not 
receive priority for co-spon­
sored events funds available 
from Student Union. 
Tim Coughlan, Student Union social commisioner remarked, ''The fee was presented to the HPC as a registration fee. We felt that it was made clear that if the dorm did not submit the fee, it could not participate in the coNest. Therefore, since no fees were submitted the contest was cancelled. We did come up with an unofficial winner and that was Sorin, but we did not feel it was incum­bent upon us that we proceed with the monetary award." 
Reynolds talks on resumes 
"What is a Mail Campaign" will be the topic of a presenta­tion/discussion by Mr. Paul Reynolds, Placement Specialist at Notre Dame. 
The talk, outlining the im­portance of a well-constructed resume and letter application during a student's job search, will be held tomorrow at 7 p.m. ~n the Hayes-Healy Auditor­IUm. 
Paris and the embassy takeover ended peacefully six hours later. 
Yesterday, British Prime Min­ister Margaret Thatcher de­nounced the student takeover of the U.S. embassy, calling it "an outrage to diplomatic relations everywhere. '' 
Prime Minister Bazargan, whose earlier offers to resign were rejected by Khomeini, left office because of Khomei­ni's escalating ami-American campaign, an official of the premier's office said in a tele­phone interview with The Asso­ciated Press's bureau in Nicosia Cyprus. 
The Carter administration had been negotiating with Barzar­gan's government for the re­lease of the hostages, who reportedly include seven or eight Iranians. 
President Carter met yester­day with Secretary of State Cyrus Vance, National security adviser Zbigniew Brezezinski and other top advisers to dis­cuss the crises, which began Sunday when the demonstra­tors siezed the U.S. embassy compound in downtown Teh­ran. 

Their demand that the Ameri­cans be exchanged for ousted Shah was rejected again yesterday by ·the U.S. government. 
White House Press SecretaryJody Powell announced the administration did not intend to used force to free the hostages, an operation which he said would be difficult to mount in any case. 
Asked about the death threat, one State Department official who asked not to be identified by name said: "You're dealing with a mob." 
Senate Co1n1nittee votes on Salt II 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate Foreign Relations Com­mittee voted unanimously yes· ~erday to regard any sigmficant improvements in the range and capability of the Soviet Backfire bomber as justifying U.S. with-
Student press publishes 
new book 
With Abecedary: An Anttc Alphabet, Ralph Mcinerny, prolific writer and author of novels such as The Priest, jolly Rogerson, and Her Death of Cold, has done something truly unique. "This book is fresh; it's unusual and clever. People will really enjoy giving it or getting it as a gift. I'd like to have it mysdf,'' remarked Leo Latz, president ofJuniper Press --the publishing house which will release Mcinerny's new book tomorrow. 
The reader is reminded of his childhood task of learning the alphabet, as Mcinerny des­cribes each letter with witty phrases and trips of the tongue. Although "A IS for Ardvark" and "F is for Foot," Abecedary is not a child's primer, but rather an adult's refreshing version of the ABC's. 
Originality seems to be the term applicable not only to Mcinerny, but also to the publishing house producing his book. Juniper Press, the only publishing company of its kind 10 the country, is entirely owned and run by University of Notre Dame students. It was the brain-child of Elizabeth A. Christman, novelist and associ­ate professor of American Studies at Notre Dame. Since its creation in 1977, Juniper Press has published several books; the first of these, Quick as a Dodo was also authored by Mcinerny. 
Ralph Mcinerny is a profes­sor of philosophy at • Notre Dame. In addition to teaching and writing, he heads the 
. University's Medieval Institute, 
· and is the director of the Jacques Maritain Center. He lives with his wife and children in South Bend, Indiana. 
• 

drawal from the SALT II treaty. 
Also, by an 8-7 margin, the committee rejected an under­standing offered by Sen. John Glenn, D,-Ohio, that would have required the Soviet Union to agree not to increase the range or payload of the Backfire or to increase production beyond the present rate of 30 a year. 
The Glenn amendment vote, announced after it. was taken during a two-hour secret com­mittee session, was the latest in a series of votes in which the committee rejected so-called "killer amendments," which the administration fears would prompt the Soviet Union to pull out of the treaty. 
In other action, the committee voted 9 to 6 to reject an understanding that would have required the Soviet Union to agree explicitly that the use of an antisatellite weapon against 
u.s. intelligence-gathering sat­ellites would be a violation of the treaty. 
However, in a 15-0 vote, the committee took the lesser step of agreeing to communicate that position to the Soviet Union as U.S. policy not requiring Soviet approval. 
The committee might be ready to finish its months of work on the treaty today. 
In the final days of committee action, the panel's Republican minority voted to hire a leading critic of the pact, retired Army Lt. Gen. Edward L. Rowney, as an official consultant. 
Chapel choir 
records new album 
The Notre Dame Chapel Choir will record its second album today "Song of David." The album will include psalms and canticles by Dr. David Clark Isele, including the ·"Te Deum," as wll as a piece which Dloln Salliers wrote for the choir entitled "Rejoice and Sing Now." Prof. Sue Martin will conduct the 63 member mixed ensemble and the album will be ·released on December 1st. 
The choir will also make its first weekend tour of the year on November 9-11, traveling to Grand Rapids, Mich. 

-----------------~--­
The Observer Wednesday, November 7, 1979-page 11 · 

Arrested Klan, Nazi tnetnbers air· view-s 
GREENSBORO, N.C. (AP) -Boger City near Lincolnton. A 
Sixteen-year old Claude Me native of.Hickory, he grew up Bride often tagged along with on Railroad Street, a group of his parents at Ku Klux Klan decaying mill homes. His rallies. Sometimes he wore a mother, Dolly Flowers, said he Nazi wrist band to school. didn't own a gun and never 
"I believe the way the Klan discussed the Klan. believes, and I've raised my "He called Saturday night kids to believe the same -not to from jail and asked how we all mix the races," said McBride's were," she said. "I was mother, Gail Caudle. scared. I'd seen on TV all those 
McBride and his stepfather, men shooting. I had no idea he Rayford Caudle, are among 14 was involved with that." whites, most linked with the Roland Wayne Wood, 34, of Klan or Nazi groups, held on Winston-S:~Jem, who works for charges stemming from the a construction comp~ny and has slayings of five persons at an a 10-year old son, satd early las~ anti-Klan rally in GreensborO--month that he founded a Nazt on Saturday. · unit in Winston-Salem about 
Mrs. Caudle interviewed at seven months ago. the family's s'mall, one-story Colle.en Sprin~!er, a neigh­white frame house in northeast bor, satd Wood used to be a Win~n-Salem said McBride Nazi, but now he's in the Klan. dropped out of school in the He told us that.". ninth grade this year "because Wood has a pohce record that he got messed up on what bus indudes convictions for larceny to take." and forgery. Regarding the 
Klan, he said, "We love them, 
The United States' advantage in technology was the topic ofa recent NROTC conference.
_they're our white brothers.'' 
[photoiJy john Macor] . 
'I believe the way the Klan believes' 
• 

Bruce Tarkington principal of Mineral Springs Junior High school, said McBride often 
• wore a Nazi wrist band and the letters KKK written on his arm. 
Mrs. Caudle said her son transferred from Dalton Junior High to Mineral Springs be­cause some blacks threatened to beat him and his younger brother, Tim. 
McBride was the youngest of the 14 arrested in the attack on members of a communist group 
•

staging a "Death to the Klan" 
•

rally. 
Another of the accused is Billy Joe Franklin, 33, of Boger City, who was laid off two weeks ago from his job as an upholsterer for Pilot Furniture Co. in Newton. 
Franklin was persuaded by his wife, Linda, to join the Klan about two months ago, said his brother Jerry. 
"Billy Joe can't read and 
•

write and she had to read all the stuff about the Klan to him and get him to sign up as a member," Jerry Franklin said. Harold Dean Flowers, 33, of 
•

northern Lindon County, is the father of four and works for a 
J.P. Stevens textile plant in 
•
•

REMEMBER ROCKY'S 
ITS NOW 

GFRANCO'S 
•
958 UnC'Oinway F.a..a 
•

(Conwt-S.mplt" &: L.\\'.E.)
South lknd . 287-53t.J 
-TtflJRSDAY­Cup of Soup 
llomt>made La~na 
•

AD iDcompauble blend of dleesc:, Doodles and rich tomaro sauce. 
\'t>fitt'table of the Day 
• 

TOMt'd Salad Italian Rrt"lld & Buttf'r 
83.75 

f.ah'ri~ faf'ililif'8 Tn .\c-rommodalf' 10..70 
•

Entf'rtainmerlt Nllei'Y in Our H.,\rrER'S LOl'~(;E Uouhlt" Buhhlt" 1-6 r,,1. 
•
l::vt>ry. \\'~~day 
• 


on topsounds... 

e•
• •
•
•
•
• 
• •
• 
•
•
•
• 
• 
• 
• 

_I
•
• 
• 

The Observer Wednesday, November 7, 1979 -page 12 

Infants suffer, face alm.ost certain death in Asian refugee hospital 
SA KAEW, Thailand (AP) ­There is an unexpected sound among the sighing and cough­ing at the refugee hospual here--the squall of newborn babies struggling for life in a world of the sick and dying. 
At this camp jammed with 30,000 Cambodians the babies are born too weak, too thin, wizened like old men, many destined to die within days from the starvation and disease that sapped their mothers' strength. 
Twenty infants were born in the camp's first week of opera­tion, but many were doomed before their lives began. Some 
OPEN HOUSE 
TONIGHT 6-10 

~~~ -· 
Save, Save, Save! 
_KJ~ 

··-, 
g·
I' 
_,_ 

mcDonald's 293-3934 

COmmUNITY ACTIONS ACORN needs organizers to work with low and moderate income families for political and economic justice in 19 states (AR, SD, TX, LA, TN, MO, FL, CO, NV, PA, IJ\, OK, t-.1I, AZ, NC, GA, CA SC, ,CT) .. D1rect. ftctlon on neighborhood detenoratton, utilny rates, taxes, health care, redlining, etc. Tangible results and enduring rewards -long hours, low pay. Trainif!g provided. Contact Office of Volunteer Services for intervies Tuesday November 13 or write Ann Lassen, ACORN, 628 Baronne, New Orleans, LA 70113. (504) 523-1691.  
Junlp•r Pr•ss's A h autograp party for ASECEEDARY: An Antic Alphabet by Ralph fficlnery Illustrated by P.L. Stow Thursday, Nov. 8th The Library Lounge 3:00-5:00pm Refreshments Served  
BURN'S RENT -ALLS  
2 Cu. Ff. Refrig. $55 per year new shipments of refrigerators have ·just arrived also TV's Steamex Carpet Oeaner 10% off with student ID LARGE BBQ GRILLS AUTO TOOLS FLOOR CARE EQUIPMENT 332 W. MISHAWAKA 259-2833  

are born already suffering from malaria, transmitted through their mothers' blood­streams, an unusual phenom­enon observed by doctors here. 
The newborns who do no~ survive are part of a daily death toll that fluctuates sharply--42 on Friday, 25 on Saturday--in this camp 50 miles west of the Cambodian border. 
Margaret Boothby, an Aus­tralian volunteer nurse at the makeshift hospital, said one baby died of malnutrition short­ly after his birth this weekend. "I t~i;d to help, but I was too late. 
~Yilt U~i':
.--.-.... --.,. d' 
-..', 
But she found another child-­
and this, the smallest one in 
camp, may live. 
''At first I thought it was just 
a pile of clothes,'' but when she 
looked more closely at the pile 
of black cl0th she found a tmy, 
wrinkled b_oy, his arms thinner 
than a woman's finger. He 
weighed little more than two 
pounds, but he has begun t~ 
gain a little and may be one of 
the survivors. 
Mrs. Boothby tried to pull the tiny boy away, but his mother, 26-year old Yang of Cambodia's Battambang province, clutched him to her and cried out, ''Who is taking my baby?'' 
''I thought someone was trying to steal my baby,'' Yang said later from her place on a straw mat rolled out on the hospital's dirt floor. 
She was half-paralyzed from a stroke and grotesquely swol­len from disease, lying there among the terribly emaciated patients. There are 2,000 people here seriously ill with malaria, tuberculosis and the eyer-present severe malnutri­tlOn. 
Yang was too ill to feed her baby and nurse Boothby gave h1m hourly bottles. 
He was the smallest baby in the camp, but Yang's son was older than the others who lay squalling around him. He was born 16 days ago in a Cambo­dian village--three days before word went out that the Vietna­mese soldiers were coming and the villagers fled. .. 
Fighting between troops of the Vietnam-backed govern­ment of Heng Samrin and guerillas of the deposed Pol Pot has driven hundreds of thou­sands of Cambodians into the hills, many of them eventually finding sanctuary in Thailand at camps like this. The disrup­tions of war have caused a massive famine. 
Yang was already weak and ill by the time the warning came, but her husband carried her and their baby into the jungle with the . rest ?f the villa~ers, along w1th thetr mal­nounshed 10-year old daughter and 8-year old son. 
Foundation offers 
fellowships 
National Science Foundation 
Minority Graduate Fellowships 
are available for applicants who 
are citizens or nationals of the 
United States as of the time of 
application, and who are mem­
bers ofan ethnic minority group 
underrepresented in the ad­
vanced levels of the U.S. sci­
ence personnel pool, i.e., A­
merican Indian, Alaskan Native 
(Eskimo or Aleut), Black, Mexi­
can American/Chicano, or 
Puerto Rican. 
The deadline for filing applica­tions for Minority Graduate Fellowships with the Fellow­ship Office, National Research Council, is November 29, 1979. 
ApJ?lication materials may be obtamed from the Fellowship Office, National Research Council, 2101 Constitution A­venue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20418. 

A wide van'ety ofart mediums is displayed in the gallery in O'Shaughnessy Hall. [photo by john MacorJ 
• • . Results 
[continued from page 3] 
In Mississippi, Winter thwarted Republican Gil Carmichael's bid to end 11 decades of Democratic control of the governorship. With more than half the vote counted, Winter led 234,474-159,884. 
In Kentucky, Brown took a convincing victory over Nunn. With 95 percent of the votes counted, Brown led by 531,624 to 368,137. 
Kentucky Gov. Julian Carroll, like Gov. Cliff Finch of Mississippi and Rizzo in Philadelphia, was barred by law from re-election. 
Mayors were being elected in 49 of the 163 cities with populations of more than 100,000. 
Democrat William Schaefer won a third term in Baltimore, while Republican William Hudnut was reelected in Indianapolis. Democrat Biagio "Ben" DiLieto was elected in New Haven where he bumped off Mayor Frank Logue in a primary election. 
In Gary, Ind., Democrat Richard Hatcher won a third term, as did Republican Margaret Hance of Phoenix,and Republican Tom Moody of Columbus, Ohio. Democrat Doug DeGood earned a second term in Toledo. 
In Houston, Mayor Jim Mccon led a large field but failed to poll enough votes to avoid .a runoff on Nov. 20. He will face his chief critic, Councilman Louis Macey. 
Municipal elections tradition­ally provide an off-year test of voter sentiment. Democrats control most city governments, and slippage there is generally taken as a bellwether of things to come. 

Mississippi and Kentucky also w.ere considered important because of 1980 presidential implications. Both were key to President Carter's election in 1976, and Republican control of their state machinery in 1980 could cause problems for any Democratic nominee. 
First Lady to visit Thailand 
WASHINGTON (AP) -
Rosalynn Carter will make a . fact-finding tour of Cambodia refugee camps in Thailand this week to focus international 
attention on the problem. 
"It's one of the moral issues 

of our day," Mrs. Carter said 
after a meeting with staff 
members and representatives 
of the United Nations and Red 
Cross. "We can't let people 
starve.'' 
Mrs. Carter, accompanied by the U.S. surgeon general, Dr. Julius B. Richmond, was scheduled to depart today and return Saturday. 
She said she and the presi­dent had discussed last week what to do about the plight of the 300,000 refugees, plagued by famine, malnutrition and other diseases. 
Over the weekend, Mrs. Carter said, a government offi­cial she would not identify, suggested that the president make the journey. But Carter could not go, and so Mrs. Carter was asked to lead the 
miSSIOn. 
"We still did not know if it was the right thing or not, but we decided yesterday that would go," she said. 
I 


The Observer -Sports Wednesday, November 7, 1979-page 13 
Boilers try to peak fOr Michigan 

WEST LAFAYETTE•, Ind. (AP) -Purdue's Boilermakers, banged up with a variety of injuries, are looking for a tough game against Michigan, and Coach Jim Young said Tuesday he hopes his squad hasn't already peaked. 
"Iowa was from our stand­point a game we really had to get up and play, because we played poorly against North­western the week before," Young said of last week's 20-14 victory over the Hawkeyes. 
''Our team played with a lot of emotion. We put an awful lot into the Iowa game. We'll certainly be ready to play Michigan, but you can reach only so many peaks, and I felt we re~ched one peak against .Iowa. 
"It's a concern," he told writers and broadcasters in his weekly telephone news confer­ence, "although I hope it doesn't happen." 
, , , Fry 

[continued from page 16] 
office people go out of their way to make the whole thing as comfortable as possible." 
Fry survived the year and arrived in Latrobe, Pa., for the 1979 training camp with high hopes and a renewed vigor for the game of football. He was a rookie all over again and it was time to justify Chuck Noll's faith in him by showing that he could do on th~ field. 
He started the summer at 
middle linebacker behind all­
pro Jack Lambert and number­
two Dennis Winston. 
''They tried me at offensive 
line and I must admit that I 
wasn't real happy there,'' said 
Fry. 
''I have always been a defen­
sive player and, as such, the 
natural agressiveness that 
comes with playing defense 
hampered me on offense." He 
claims he was happier playing 
linebacker despite being listed 
behind Lambert and Winston. 
"I like the position and I 
thought I was doing real well,'' 
he points out. The reason he 
says "was" as opposed to "is" 
is because he isn't ... playing, 
that is. He sustained a 
shoulder injury early in camp 
and is again spending his time 
on the injured reserves list. 
This time he is even more 
disappointed than before and 
with obvious reason. 
''When you sit out that long and then come back, you just don't expect it to happen again," he says. "I was ready and very excited about playing · again and then I suffered 
another injury." 
Still, with all the defensive 
talent Chuck Noll can call on, he 
has opted to keep Fry on the 
roster for another year when he 
could have easily cut him 
without much question. The 
Steelers pay his salary, watch 
him practice and wait until he 
gets a real chance to show how 
well he can play. 
Will he or won't he? 
It remains to be seen...... 
The Boilermakers will be with­out receiver Mike Harris, who suffered a broken jaw. Fullback Mike Augustyniak has been hobbled with a knee injury alth.ough he is expected to pia~ agamst the Wolverines on Sat­urday; fullbackJohn Macon has a dislocated shoulder, and freshman tailback Jimmy Smith the third-leading rusher, quit the team for personal reasons. 
"We have a number of people 
banged  up,  a  lot  of  people  
questionable  for  this  week,''  
Young  said.  "I  don't  know  

exactly what their situation will be." 
Young said Michigan, which beat the Boilermakers 24-6 last year at Ann Arbor, has an "outstanding football team. They have great speed in the offense, receivers and running backs. Their quarterback Gohn Wangler) has come in there and done a fine job." 
Young, a former assistant under Michigan Coach Bo Schembechler, said the Wolver­ines' defense has "the outstand ing defense in the country." 
''They have great quickness in strength, and they play the pass extremely well. They played extremely well in the last two years. There's no question it's an important game." 
Young also expressed concern with the Michigan defensive line. 
"We'll have our work cut out for us up front," he said. "But you can't change your offense. You just go and do the best possible job you can.'' 
Michigan stands 6-0 in the Big Ten and 8-1 overall. Purdue, 5-1 in the conference and 7-2 for all games, must win to keep alive its slim hopes for a Big Ten championship. 
• • • Sale 
[continued from page 16] 
AI Rosen, former president of the New York Yankees, and Cedric Tallis, former General manager of the Yan'kees, would become involved in operation of the Denver franchise, the AP has learned. _. 
A knowledgeable source told the AP that negotiations should be completed this month, allow­ing the transaction to be pre­sented to the American League in Dece!Jlber during the annual winter meetings in Toronto. 

Irish icers to host Wolverines 
The Michigan hockey team will invade the ACC this week­end for a two game series versus the Irish. Both games against the first place Wolver­ines will be telecast back to the Ann Arbor area. Tickets for both of these games (Friday ­
8:00 and Saturday -7:30) are now available at the Gate 10 ·box office in the ACC. 
Season ticket packages mav still be purchased at rhe ACC ticket office. 

There's nothing more revealing than a naked diamond. 
The diamond you buy should have nothing to hide. That's why it's advisable to select your stone and mounting· separately. 
Before a diamond is mounted, your jeweler can easily demonstrate its cut, color, clarity and carat weight to you. With his help, you will be able to see and compare the brilliance of different stones yourself. 
Brilliance is the key to beauty in diamonds. Always look for a diamond that has been cut and polished to bring out all of its natural brillianc~. one that meets the exact-~------. ing standards that have been established as 
119 

ideal. These are called ideal cut diamonds. • 
LK Ideal Cut Diamonds ensure you of getting IDEAL cur the most beauty and value. DIAMOND
JEWELER 

Diamond Import Company 
Lobby St Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana 46601 287-1427 


! 
The Observer -SportsBoard Wednesday, November 7, 1979-page 14 
1. Michigan (6) 6-Q-0 80 2. Cornell 0-0-0 68
Hockey 

• • . Rose Bo-wl
3. Colorado College (1) 2-2-0 66 
4. North Dakota (2) 2-2-0 
5. Notre Dame 3-2-{)
COLLEGE POLL 

6. 
Michigan Tech 4-2-0 

7. 
Boston U. 0-0-0


The weekly college hockey poll, as com­

8. Wisconsin 3-2-0.
piled by radio station WM PL in Hancock, 

9. Ohio State (1) 2-2-0
Michigan. (With first·place votes in paren-~ 

(tie) Minnesota 2-3-0
thesis, records and rating points) 
Ih:>nesbury 


IAIHO's ca+f-APf?flTY HeAVY lNG 7lJ 7Hc CFOIUI), MAN. A 
R&4IJING GANG OF CREOfT{J(S, 
BReNNER.? A ax/Pi£ IRS GUYS, 
\ ANIJA U.5.MA'<SHAL. 
GLAIJ '!()() GOTH&'?E 50 


Molarity 



Senior Bar Presents

·•'-,do,.. 
,_ .. --· 

Live Music in the Pub FEATURING 
TONY AQUILINO BIU FLORIANO 
]UllEPERRY 
53 
would have .818 percentages.

47 
[continued from page 16] 
"If Ohio State beats Iowa,"

44 
best overall winning percentage Big Ten official Jeff Elliott said 

32 
gets the Rose Bowl nod. In that Tuesday, "everything is elim­

31 
case, the Buckeyes would be inated, including Purdue. It

28 
10-1 for a .909 percentage. comes down to the fact that

28 
Purdue and Michigan, both 9-2, Michigan then would have to 
by Garry Trudeau 

ALL laS GOTTA
MJT70~MAN. I 
A U.5. (){cCK£[) rr(}{IT, ANO 
!MAGIN& IJO IS 6&T Til& 
MAPSIIAL'? MOSTOf OtJKesES!117E 
MY RelieF. 513R.!AL NUM­
8CRS OFF.
( I 

by Michael Molinelli 
from the Tower TONITE PRESENTS 
The Soul Hour from 9-11 Featuring the best in Jazz, Soul, Rythm and Blues And Spottsline, where you the.listener can call in. 
All From Notre Dame's Stud~nt Rock, AM 64, beat Ohio State." 

If both Michigan and Ohio State triumph this week, they will carry 7-0 Big Ten records into the Rose Bowl showdown the following week. Purdue would be out of Rose Bowl contention. 
The set of guidelines to settle the Bi~ Ten's Rose Bowl repre­sentative came as the result of a suggestion by the conference's coaches. 
What triggered their success­ful proposal was back-to-back controversial·votes by Big Ten athletic directors in 1973 and 1974. In both instances, Ohio State was chosen over Michi­~an, to the dismay of Wolver­mes Coach Bo Schembechler. 
Michigan and Ohio State 
played a I 0-10 tie in 1973 to leave both teams with 7-0-1 conference records. The bitter rivals also posted identical ov­erall marks of 10-0-1 that season. 
The Buckeyes beat the Wolv­erines 12-10 in 1974. Both teams claimed the champion­ship that year with identical 7-1-0 Big Ten marks. However, Michigan was 10-1-0 overall while Ohio State was 9-2-0. 
At that time, the Big Tern permitted only one team to play m a post-season game -The Rose Bowl. That meant Michi­gan, even though its overall record during those two years was 20-1-1, was forced to stay home both times. 
Since then, conference regula­tions have been amended to allow as many as three Big Ten teams to go to bowl games. 
Last season, Michigan played in the Rose Bowl, Purdue in the Peach Bowl and Ohio State in the Gator Bowl. Two seasons ago, the Wolverines were in the Rose Bowl, the Buckeyes in the Sugar Bowl and Minnesota in the Hall of Fame Bowl. 
Sailing Oub qualifies for Nationals 
Notre Dame's Sailing Club finished third this weekend in the District A tournament, thus qualifying for the fall nationals to be held over Thanksgiving break in Chicago. 
Captain Phil Reynold finished second in division A while skipper Greg Fisher sailed to a third place finish in division B with Jane Brown and John Horky as crew. 
Flag football ends today 
St. Mary's interhall flag foot­ball season will come to an end this Thursday afternoon at 4:30 
p.m. when Regina meets Me Candless Hall. This fall's championship game will deter­mine rankings for spring com­petition, from which the winner will go to play a team from Notre Dame during An Tostal. 
Buy 


Observer 
classifieds 
--~~---~-------~-------~----==---,
-

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, November 7, 1979-page 15 


As a Steeler 

Fry w-aits on injured rese1~ve 
PITTSBURGH--Willie Fry. Most of you remember the name. He was the "other" defensive end on a line that featured all-world Ross Browner on the opposite side. Between that set of bookends stood volumns of rewritten record books. 
However, Browner received most of the credit and all of the glory while Fry played most of his career in Number Eighty­Nine's shadow. But many who watched from freshman year to graduation. thought that Fry was every bit as good. 
Maybe better; or so believed the Pittsburgh Steelers when they made Fry their number­two draft pick in 1978. If there were any questions about Fry's ability, Steeler coach Chuck Noll answered th(:m all. You see, Noll seldom makes an error in the high rounds of Pete Rozelle's annual talent free-for­aiL And his forte has been defense where he's snagged such prizes as]oe Greene, Jack Lambert, Mel Blount, Jack Ham and Rop ] ohnson since taking over the Steelers in 1969. 

So, when Noll took Willie Fry in the second round of the draft, a lot of knowledgeable people conceeded that the kid must have done something right to impress the Steelers--a team well-stocked at every defensive position. And then, when Noll released all-pro defensive line­man Ernie Holmes, well, the chances that Willie Fry would wear a black and gold uniform looked good indeed. 
In his first professional foot­ball game, a pre-season match­up with the Baltimore Colts, Fry looked promising. You could tell he was a rookie because he made rookie mis­takes. But, it appeared to be just a matter of time before he would make the team, serve his internship on special teams and then make his mark as a member of the heralded Steel 
Soccer team finishes season with victory over Valparaiso 
VALPARAISO--The Notre Kraemer and Mike Mai frovi­
Dame soccer team closed their ded the Irish with al the 
season on a high note yester­scoring they needed for the 
day, as they defeated Valparai­game. Kraemer opened the 
so, 5-0, in a one-sided affair. scoring, with an assist from 
Their season now over, the Irish Mai, and then returned the 
finished with a respectable favor by setting up Mai's goal, 
20-10-1 record, their second giving the Irish a 2-0 lead that 
20-win season in three years of would never be challenged. 
varsity play. were scored
Other goals by
Goalies Gerard McCarthy and 

Dan McCurrie, a senior playing 
Joe Giglia combined for the 

his final game for Notre Dame,
shutout, but were hardly 

Mario Manta, and Eddie Gra­
pressed all day, as Valpo could 

ham, who scored the first goal
only manage five shots on goal 

of his career for the Irish.
for the game. Notre Dame 

countered with 49 slwts, and Additional highlights of the 
spent most of the day in front of game included the inspirational 
the Crusader goal. second half play of senior 
The combination of Steve manager Doug Collodel. 

Frank LaGrotta 
Sports Writer 
Curtain. 
Stop the presses, because it 
didn't happen that way. 
Not quite. 
After suffering torn liga­
ments in both hands during training camp, Fry spent the· ent~e 1978 season on the injured list--Rozelle's answer to Purgatory. When one is un­lucky enough to be placed on injured reserves, he is payed, he practices and he i:s part of the team--he just cannot suit up on Sunday. For a person used to playing every game, the experience can be frustrating. 
"Hey, I didn't like it one bit," Fry told Pittsburgh sportscaster Myron Cope before the Steeler-Denver Bronco game on October 22. "You work out, practice--you're a part of the team, but you don't play or travel or contri­bute during a game. I feel lucky to be a member of the Steeler organization because the players, coaches and front 
[continued on page 13] 

. In Kansas Ci~y 
Amet,.ican League to discuss A's sale 
NEW YORK (AP) -The American League is scheduled to meet Wednesday in Kansas City, Mo., to discuss the sale of the Oakland A's to oill mogul Marvin Davis of Denver, but AL President Lee MacPhail warns not to expect any immediate action on the matter. 
''It could be weeks, it could be months or nothing may hap-
Dear God 

National Championship still within reach 
Dear God, 

I know LaGrotta wrote to Santa when he wanted 
a win over Southern Cal, but I've really got a 
problem. 

You see, there's this poll thatwa' released on January 2, 1980 that's supposed to tell everybody who's number-one in college football. I saw these bumper stickers in the bookstore the 
other day that said "Godmadethe Irish #1" so I 
figured you were the guy that I should write to. 
What I want i~ for Notre Dame to be there. 
Simple enough? Now, there are 12 other teams 
between us and the top-spot right now. To make 
it easier, I've laid out for you exactly what's; got 
to happen to each of them and who has to play in 
which bowl game on New Year's Day. 
Orange Bowl-Florida State vs. Nebraska 
Sugar Bowl -Notre Dame vs. Alabama 
Cotton Bowl-Ohio State vs. Houston 
Rose Bowl-Washington vs. Michigan 
Alabama must win its three remaining games and then lose to the Irish in die Su~ar Bowl. (By the way, we also, .need Georg1a to lose a conference game so Bear Bryant's boys can play in the Sugar. Say, I hear from a friend of mine down south that the Bear does a great imitation of your son.) 
Nebraska must win the last three games to win the Big Eight but then lose to Florida State in the Orange Bowl. 
Ohio State has to beat Iowa on Saturday but lose to Michigan in Ann Arbor the following week, thus sending the Wolverines to the Rose Bowl but still leaving the Buckeyes a popular 

Michael Ortman 
Sf><WU Writ.,. 
choice for the Cotton. Since Notre Dame beat Michigan, the Irish would then have an edge over State. Southern Cal is going to be a tough one since the Trojans poured It on the Irish three weeks ago. This weekend, let Washington beat them (giving the Huskies the Pac -10 crown) and let the Trojans lose to UCLA the following week. Houston-Surely you still remember what you did to these guys last year. The Cougars can win their final three but let them lose the Cotton Bowl to Ohio State. 
Oklahoma should be out of it after Nebraska wins the regular season finale. Don't worry, God, the Corhuskers will finish these guys off for 
y~f~nda State is going to be tricky so listen closely. I know the Seminoles are presently unbeaten and that's right where I want them. Let them' beat South Carolina and Memphis State and then let their 10-0 record and their local 'appeal get them invited to the Orange Bowl. Then they have to lose to rival Florida the following week before dumping Nebraska on 
[continued on page 15] 

Wednesday, November 7, 1979 -page 16 

pen," MacPhail said Tuesday. ''Nothing is going to happen at this meeting. We are just going to update the clubs on what the situation is at this time.'' 
At present, the A's have eight years remaining on their lease at the Oakland Coliseum and that hurdle would have to be resolved before the club could be moved. 
Charles 0. Finley, the A's owner, admitted that ''the club is for sale'' and that he ''talked with Marvin Davis and his representative some time ago. The entire situation depends on the possibility of working out something with the Coliseum.'' 
Davis, meanwhile, told the Denver Post, ''Rumors are rampant. There's nothing I can say." 
The Associated Press learned Monday that the sale was in the works -a deal that would bring major league baseball to Den­ver for the 1980 season. 

"We've been working at this for three years,'' MacPhail 
said.  "So I can't tell you it is  
going  to  fall  in  place  at  this  
time.  We are having a player  

relations meeting, and because 
all of our people will be together, we decided to review the Oakland situation. 
''There are two big pieces that 
have to come together. One of them is Charlie (Finley.) The other is the Oakland Coliseum Board. We do not have an agreement with the Coliseum Board.'' 
This is the second time Finley is attempting to sell the strug­gling franchise to Davis. He first tried last year, but several obstacles blocked the deal. 
Reportedly, those obstacles have been eased and the sale virtually is certain to be comp­leted this time. 
[continued on page 13] 

Purdue victory could send Ohio State to Rose Bowl 
COLUMBUS Ohio (AP) -An Ohio State football victory over Iowa Saturday, coupled with a Purdue triumph over Michigan, will send the third-ranked Buckeyes to the Rose Bowl for the first time since 1975. 
If that happens, Ohio State could lose at Michigan the following week and still repre­sent the Big Ten Conference in the Pasadena, Calif., classic on New Year's Day. 
The reason is a set of guide­lines the Big Ten adopted in December 1974. The new rules eliminated the requirement that the conference's athletic direc­tors vote to select the Rose Bowl team. Past votes had stirre_d controversy on. several 

occaswn~. 
If Ohio State and Purdue win Saturday and the Boilermakers trim Indiana while the Buck­eyes fall at Michigan the final week, there would be a three­way tie for the Big Ten title. Ohio State, Purdue and Micc:hi­gan would share the champion­ship with 7-1 league records. 
Since Purdue and Ohio State did not play, conference rules dictate that the team with the 
[continued on page 14] 





