~------l 
j 
b)l Mike Shields 
Protestors stood across from ing the pontiff's weekend visit, 
News Editor 
the church, waving posters and hawking papal buttons, flags, 
banners. keychains, necklaces, posters, WASHINGTON -Pope John A major protest was staged by records and even holy water. Paul II left Washington for . a group called Catholic Advo­The records were especiallyRome last night, having im­cates for Equality. (CAE), a popular, according to one ven­
pressed millions of Amet:icans women's ·rights group, who dor. The records featured the with his enthusiasm and warm­challenged the · pontiff's stand Pope singing Polish songs and 
th during his hecti~ six-day on a male-only priesthood. hymns, and sold for five dol­
pilgrimage through this country. one of CAE's
Gail Lambers, lars. The vendor estimated that After-arriving in the Q_ation' s; organizers, deemed the over 900 discs had been sold capital Saturday, John Paul Church's "oppression of wom­before the Pope's Mass on the rode up Seventeenth Street in a en'' a human rights issue. Mall yesterday by the Washing­motorcade to St. Matthew's ''The Church needs much ton monument. Cathedral, where he celebrated more awareness and sensitivjry John Paul received a rousing Mass before an overflow crowd towards women,'' she said. reception during his visit to that filled Rhode Island Ave for "Women are second-class citi­Catholic University yesterday over a block. zens in our Church," Sr. Fied­morning. Spectators lined his 
The crowd responded in both ler said. "It's embarassing for motorcade route and cheered English and Latm to the Pope's the Pope to preach human with vigor. A large red and voice broadcast over loudspeak­rights and ignore women. It is white sign hanging from a ers outside the church. Many becoming a matter of con­dormitory window /roclaimed thanked him and exchanged science for many of us to "Have a Pope an smile." greetings as a sign of peace. remain sisters." Welcome posters in both Eng­
The Pope's homily yesterday A passerby, hearing this state­lish and Polish draped from centered on family life, and he ment, turned to the nun and windows all over the campus. asain addressed abortion and asked, "Was the blessed The Pope's hectic pace seem­btrth control. mother discriminated against? ed to have tired him, but he still 
''When the sacredness of life You should know that humility responded enthusiastically to before birth is attacked, we will is one of the greatest virtues.'' the cheering horde. stand up and proclaim that no A large green banner directly In response to the crowd's one ever has the authority to across from St. Matthew's pro­chants of "John Paul II, We destroy unborn life," the pon­claimed the _presence of Di~­love you,'' the pontiff replied, tiff said. nity, an organtzation of Catholic ''John Paul II, I love you' ' three 
He also attacked divorce, say­homosexuals. [continued on page 5]ing, "When the institution of Joe Totten, Dignity's national marriage is abandoned to hu­treasurer, said the group hoped man selfishness or reduced to a to show John Paul that "We are temporary, conditional arrange­members of the Church, and we ment that can easily be termm­won't go away. We support • • 
. after triumphant Chicago visit 
ated, we will stand up and him, and he should support us affirm the indissolubility of the as human beings.' by]ohn McGrath the first time on his American , -a nation Formed of many marriage bond. " • Several Hispanics protested Senior StaffReporter visit, the Pope made clear his people," John Paul told the 
A prolonged ovation and vig­their lack of representation in stands on the controversial throng. orous flag-waiving greeted the the Church heirarchy. They issues of abortion, artificial ''Looking at you,'' he continu­pontiff after the Mass as cheers held a sign which read, "Cath­The people of Chicago wel­contraception, homosexuality, ed, "I see people who have of "Long live the Pope!" and olics--Hispanics 30 percent-­comed Pope John Paul II with and divorce. molded their destinies toge­"We love the Pope" rang out. Hispanic Cardinals 0 percent.'' open arms Friday as the pontiff An extirnated 1.4 million ther. Different as you are, you 
Not all present, however, were Several vr.ndors ctrculated brought his pilgrimage to A­people -Chicago's largest have come to accept each other, 
as receptive to the Pope. around the city dur-merica's heartland. And, for crowd -turned out Friday to at times imperfectly, and even witness the pa_pal Mass at at times subjected each other to Grant Park. In h1s homily, the various forms of discrimination 
For campus organizations pontiff heavily stressed the ... but you also became aware of need for unity, not only in the your duty toward the less Catholic Church, but through-fortunate in your own midst and 
SMC Student Assembly allots funds in other countries ­
out American society. the duty of ''When IIi ft up my eyes, I see saving, of loving, and of ser­in you the people of God united ving."
by Margie Brassil group will help its members and tion, which arranges for stu­to sing the praises of the Lonf, Speaking more specificallySaint Mary's News Editor the student body. . dents to visit the Holy Cross and I see the people of America [continued on page 41
The Committee for Alcohol Sisters in the Convent Inftrm­Education Programs which ary, petitioned for, and receiv­The Saint Mary's Student sponsors activities to promote ed $100. This money, which is 
Hesburgh terms Pope 's visit
Assembly allotted $3470 of the · responsible drinking and sup­requested every year, is used $3500 allocation fund to campus port groups for alcoholics re­for parties that are held for the clubs and organizations yester­quested any amount the As­nuns several times a year. At 
'nothing less than spectacular
day. The funding was made sembly could allot it and was the end ofthe year, any surplusduring a closed meeting after awarded $150. funds will be returned to Stu­b_y Mike Shields the 17 groups made their The Business Club, which is dent Government. 
WASHINGTON-Pope John Paulll's visit to the United ~tares was
appeal to the Assembly. theiargest club on campus with Saint Mary's Affiliates of the "nothing less than spectacular," Notre Dame Prest dent Fr.
According to Treasurer Sheila: 85 members received the $250 American Chemical Society, an Theodore M. Hesburgfi said here yesterday.
Wixted, the allocations were which it requested. The club open club for anyone interested While in Washington, H~sburgh attended ~he _pontiff's W_hitebased on 1)the purpose of the plans to use the money for in Chemistry, applied for $100 House reception, h1s meetmg w1th the Orgamz~tton of Ame~tcan group, 2)the amount of mem­educational purposes, field to be applied towards speakers States and a talk the Pope delivered to promment theologians,bership and the percentage.of trips and its speaker series. and field trips. It received $50. 
schola~s and educators at Catholic University. .
the members who are Samt The BiologY,_ Club, with 60 The Saint Mary's French Club, Hesburgh said the Pope's week-long ~~c:ep through the UmtedMary's students, 3) the mem­members whtch has doubled its in its first year as a club States ''will give a gre~t b~ost t? the v1stbll~~y of the Church, and a
bership fee and other funding membership over last year, re­separate from Notre Dame's great boost to Catholics m thts country. 
He added that theactivittes planned by the group ceived $175 of the $300 it French Club, requested any Pope's "great enthusiasm" may .well increase the number of4) in the case of a joint Notre requested. One of the group's amount from the Assembly to people entering religious vocations in America. 

Dame/Sai-nt Mary's group, how main goals this year is to help in its development and Hesburgh described John Paul as ''the authentic leader of themuch it received from Notre become affiliated with the Na­acttvities. The Assembly allot­world. No one in the world could create such a response as he 
Dame this year and how much tional Biology Organization, ted $45 to be earmarked speci­was received in past years from Beta Beta Beta. The allocation fically for organization and hj~~~ Paul"s pilgrimage through America will induce "no drastic Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, will be used to help with the development of the club. changes in the Church," Hesburgh said, "because they are not 
5) past experience with how the necessary application fee as The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
necessary. " . . group used its funds, and 6) the well to fund other planned Gymnastics Club and team has Hesburgh said that the pontiff's tremendous populanty wtth both 
activities planned by each activities. 
[continued on page 8] [continued on page 41
group this year and how the Convent Volunteers Organiza­


News in brief Sniper holds Frisco at bay with fire on city traffic SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -A sniper, whose wild shooting virtually shut down San Francisco's busy Civic Center district for some 2 3 hours, claimed his attack was the result of a ''bad trip" on drugs, a woman who talked to him said yesterday. The sniper, who had taken a hostage, fired what pollee estimated was at least 50 shots of mostly . 30-caliber carbine ammunition from the 16th floor of a downtown building into surrounding streets. One man, who was a block away from the building, was grazed by a slug but was not seriously hurt. The hostage, a secretary in the State Compensation Insurance Fund Building, was reported exhausted, limp from her long bout of terror, but otherwise in good condition. The siege began at the height of the rush-hour Friday night and poltce cordoned off 16 blocks of some of the city's most heavily traveled streets. Fire sweeps jetliner; kills at least seven ATHENS Greece (AP) -Fire swept a Swissair DC-8 jetliner last night, killing at least seven of the 154 persons on board after the plane skidded to a halt on a rain-swept runway at Athens international airport, authorities said: Civil Aviation Authority reported three persons were m serious condition and ap undetermined number of the 142 passengers and 12 crewmembers were being treated at Athens hospitals. The plane was Swissair flight 316, en route from Geneva, and Zurich, Switzerland, bound for Bombay, India then Peking after the Athens stopover. The airport was closed as firefighters worked to extinguish the flames. Incoming flights were diverted to other airports. Peddler makes profit on Papal pilgrimage WASHINGTON (AP) -Robert Dourant followed the Pope's footsteps from Boston to New York to Philadelphia to the nation's capital. but he is not a pilgrim. He's a peddler.  Monday, October 8, 1979 -page 2 ·urr nrrn illllilllilll HI I The Observer Notre Dame Student UnionNight Editor: John Smith Asst. Night Editor: Darrell Nolan, Mike J ans Copy Editor: Lynne Daley News Editor: Mike Lewis MiAliON  
"Hey, Pope buttons here. Get your Pope buttons here. Buy 'em, wear 'em, show 'em," 1h1awked Dourant, to the crowd outside the Apostolic Delegation, where Pope John Paul II spent Saturday night. Dourant, carrying a board festooned with his Pope buttons, beribboned pms and crucifixes, said this job had special meaning for him "because I'm a Catholic. He refused to say how much money he makes from button sales, but said hewas not worried about being stuck  and Ellen Buddy Editorial Layout: Joe ''TLS'' • Rodriguez Featurt•s Ltyout: K. Connel­torts Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Paula Shea, Kim SALECon-yey, mary Beth Budd,  
with surplus souvenirs when the Pope departs.  Manlyn Broderick Mon.-Tues.-Wed. EMT: Terri Blazi Proofreader: Michael Onu­Oct. 8-9-10  

Weather 
Partly sunny and mild today. Highs in thetmid 70s. Mostly cloudy with a 30 percent chance of showers tonight. Lows inftht1mid to upper 40s. 


 
Noon LUNCHEON MEETING women's version of nd quarterback club, MONOGRAM RM, ACC, phone 283-7475 for information, open to public. 3:30pm, COMPUTER MINI-COURSE "functional utilities," doug van tornhout, nd, 115 CCMB, sponsor: computing center, free of charge, continues oct. 9 at same time. 4:30pm, FACULTY ADDRESS rev. theodore m. hesburgh, c.sx. speaking in WASHINGTON HALL. 6:45 pm, ROSARY daily at GROTTO. 7, 10:30 pm, FILM "barry lyndon," ENGR. AUD. $1 admission, today and tomorrow, sponsor: modern language dept. & educational media dept. 7:30 pm, FILM "grand illusion," WASHINGTON HALL, sponsor: nd/smc spdr. 8: 15 pm, LECTURE "current legislative efforts to limit conglomerate mergers and acquisitions," joel perwin, counsel senator edward m. kennedy staff u.s. senate judiciary committee, GALVIN AUD. sponsor: economics dept. 9-10 pm, TALK SHOW "talk.it-up" subject: freshman year, speaker: emil hoffman, sponsored by wsnd  

frak 

9am until 5 pm 
.... '"• ;. ..­
ND Day Editor: Bob Berno­skie 

La Fortune St!Jdent Center
SMC Day Editor: Lisa Stanc­

Main Lobby Area
zak Photographer: Chris Salvino Guest Appearances: 

By special arrangement with Njd "Snap" GALLERY LAINZBERG, Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 
The Observer [USPS !ill 920] II published Monday through Friday n­cept during ex1m 1nd viCition periods. The Observer is publlsbld by the students of Notre 011111 IIIII Sllnt Miry's College. Sublcrlptillll nwy be purcllned for ~ per year IS• per llllllltlr] from The Observer, 1'.0. bex 

Self Defense
a. Notre blme,tndlllll 415116. S.C.d CIIU ~~ Plld, Notre D11111, ln­dillll . 


s 
The Observer is 1 llllllllllr If the AuGc11tld Prill. All ..ldldlln 

Sponsored by the ND Judo Club
rights lrt rlllrvld. 

Introductory Class: Tha*s to you ... 
Sunday, Oct.7 it works... 
2:00pm Old weight room, 3rd floor, Rockne Memorial
for 
ALL 
Featuring: 

*Secu~ity thru self defense *Physical fitness and conditioning 
OFUS 


*Advanced classes for rapid promotion and competition experience *An interest~ng escape from books 
Advanced ranks needed as assistants. 
Unitedway 

Call Curt Hench, 8716 for more information 

Monday, October 8, 1979 -page 3
The Observer 
First in a series 
Volunteer services reach out 
by Kit Bernardi students. The first, entitled 
"Direct Service," provides ser-EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the vice through one-on-one or first story in a four-part series small group relationships. outlining the Notre DameISaint These types ofrelati?~s~ips can Mary's Volunteer Services. develop_ throug~ ~~tlvltles su~h Following stories will deal with as tutonng or vtsttmg a nursmg each service, the people invol­home regularly. . ved, and what they cfo. The second type of soctal 
action described is "Indirect 
Volunteer service organiza­Service." According to the 
pamphlet, this p~ovides ''stafftions are an integral part of the Notre Dame and Samt Mary's campus life. The eighteen volunteer service organizations support or cleriCal or fund-rais­ing assistance so that direct service can take place." 
Direct Social Action or Advo­cacy is the. third ~pe of social . acuon. T~ts entails organizing and working for reforms in services or systems affecting others. ProJects under this heading would include demand­
-. 
·[contznued on page 81 I 

supported by the coordinated ND and SMC Volunteer Service Offices (VSO) reach out to campus and South Bend resi­dents in need through dedica­ted Saint Mary's •and Notre Dame students. 
The Volunteer Service office of Notre Dame is under the direc­tion ofSr. Judith Anne Beattie. Beattie is assisted by two students, Sue Anne Fearing
Volunteers from Notre Dame and St. Mhary 's assisted at the 

and John Malcolm. The ND
Logan Center last Saturday in t e annual ''Special 

Volunteer Services operates
Olympics." [photo by Rick Dohring] . 

under the office of the Vice­
·HOmECOmiNG mEETING 
monday Oct~ 8th 
ANYONE WHO IS INTERESTED IN ANY ASPECT OF HOmECOmiNG WEEK IS URGED TO ATTEND 
8pm Student Union Offlc•a 
president of Student Affairs. The Saint Mary's Volunteer Office is part of the Student
Castro plans visit 
Activities Ofice and is funded 
THE
through Saint Mary's. Director Mary Laverty is assisted by
for UN address 
SMC student Ellen Crowe. 
GREAT
-communications," perhaps The Notre Dame and Saint
UNITED NATIONS (AP) Fidel Castro has made arran­gements to travel to New York this week to address the U.N. General Assembly, American and U.N. officials said yester­day. It would be the Cuban president's first trip to the United States in 19 years. 
A State Department spokes­man, David Passage, said in Washington that visa requests for Castro and his party were made last week, and he would probably arrive imhe middle of this week. 
Passage said Castro would address the current Assembly session in his role as head of the non-aligned movement -the organization of more than 90 nations that profess. neutrality between the superpower blocs.. Castro played host to a non-ali­gned summit meeting in Hava­na last month. 
"There are no plans for meet­ings with U.S. officials," Pas­sage said. 
A spokesman for Kurt Wald­

heim said the U.N. secretary­
general "got similar informa­
tion from ... (Cuban U.N. Am­
bassador) Mr. Raul Roa Kouri, 
but we are waiting for fmal 
Monday. . Mary's offices are joint in the The spok~sman, R~dolf Staj-staff coordination between duhar, .said Roa mformed , Mary Laverty and Sr. Beattie. 
ESCAPE.
:Wald~etm of ~he Cuban l_eader s The bond is strengthened by 
mtenttons Fnday. S~ajduhar gave no fur~her d~tails, a~d there was no !~mediate official word on the tnp from Havana. Sources suggested Castro may not. yet have made a final tc!SI?n on whether to make 
t Ef thp. b f h d 
ac year a nu~ er 0. . ea s of state and foreign mtmsters address the General Assembly
in the first few weeks of its 
· 1 h d 
three-month sesswn. t a
been expected that Castro might be one of this year's speakers but as late as Friday a 
U.N. spokesman said it was his understandingthe Cuban presi­dent would not take part 10 the 
1979 session. Recent reports had indicated 
. his place at the podium would be taken by Ion time Cuban Communist Part feader Carlos Rodriguez next Friday, when it is Cuba's turn to address the assembly. 
Castro's trip to the United 
. [contmued on page 8] 

the cooperation among the nu­merous students participating in the organization's Volunteer Services from both campuses. 
The Volunteer Services Office has many definite functions. The office provides information 
for organizations of volunteer 
opportunities during the school ear. It also aids students in Y h f st gra
sdearc o ~ummer or ~~ -­
uate service opportumues.
s· J d" h A d r"b d
Ister u lt nne esc 1 e 
· ~?e post-grad_uate program as 
. an opportumty to explore and test out some of_the values that Y0hhave ~y .~emg exposed to 0~her Pffi0P e. . d . 
e ? _tee assists stu_ ems l_fl orgamzmg and operatmg t~etr groups ~s ~ell as overseemg the ~istnbuuon of_fund~. _It also provtdes leadership tram_mg for gro_ul? leaders and coordmauon trammg for student vl?lu~teers. 
A recent pamphlet dtstnbuted by the ND VSO defi~ed fo_ur 
types ofvolunteer servtce soctal · action available to ND and SMC 
You dream about it at night... the day you can close your books, get out of this place and forget about studying for awhile. 
Well, the Great Escape is here ... this weekend, with Greyhound. Escape to the country or go see some friends. Just decide which escape route you want and we'll do the rest. 
We'll get you out of town and away from the books so you can clear your head. It doesn't cost much and it'll do you a world of good. 
So make the Great Escape this weekend ... with Greyhound. 
To One-Way Round-ltip Depart Arrive Chicago 9.85 18.75 4:-fo p.m. 6-:55 p.m.Detroit 20.95 39.85 10:20 a.m. 15:35p.m.Cleveland 26.90 51.15 11:50 a.m .. 7:35p.m.Pittsburgh 40.05 76.10 8:20a.m. 8:35 p.m.
Milwaukee 

16.50 31.35 9:45a.m. 2:15p.m. 
287-6541 

z --~e 
60 6REYIIOIIIJ
•-­


, 
,i ~ 
l 
RECORD STORE NEWSJJJ  
1. We are now taking orders fr9m both Schwann I and Schwann II catalogs. You can now order ANY alb~m currently In production. 2. Check out our prices! Current populars starting at only $3.90. ·a. Defective cl~ims for last year will be given a credit toward a new purctlase. Bring your sales slip 4. Orders will be taken Mon. thru Wed., 12:00 till 4:00 in the ticket office. Prior weeks orders will be distributed on Thur•. and Fri. CHECK OUT OUR PRICES AND OUR SELECTION Student Union Services C9mmissioner  

The Observer Monday, October 8, 1979-page 4 
(continued from page 1) 
about the Roman Catholic · Church, he warned, "We are bound together in a unity that transcends our diversity. What brings us together and makes us one is our faith. But no ecclesiastical body can cut it­self off from the Church's main teachings ... the content of the faith must not be either impair­

... Chicago 
ed or mutilated while being clothed in the garments of diversity.'' 
Members of the crowd, some of whom had been camped at the site since 5 a.m. Thursday morning, were joyously recep­tive of the pontiff's prescence. At several times during the Mass, chants of "Long live the Pope," and "We love you John Paul II," rang out from the multitude assembled along the Lake Michigan waterfront.
ROCCOS 
Delegations had come from as far as ·California to get a

men's and women's 
~limpse ofJohn Paul. 'Th1s is the biggest day of my'
hairstyling 
life," exclaimed Mrs. Chuck O'Donnell, who along with her
at 
husband, had arrived early in

comfortable prices 
the mornig at the park from their home in Elmhurst, Ill. "We've never had anything
531 N. Michigan 
like this really before -I wouldn't have come out for
-~-233-4957 
anything: else like this except for the Pope.'' 

1 JUST FOR THE RECORD :I 
1 in the ·100 Cent•r 1 
I oHers. 10% oH on I
I IEVERYTHING 
I with ID & coupon 1 
I RECORDS, TAPES. paraphernalia I 
Although many of those in the 
crowd were openly excited by 
the Pope's presence, the over­
all tone of the group was a bit 
more subdued. . 
The Chicago police, which 
diverted 30 percent of its force 
to the event, reported no major 
problems with the crowd. Most 
of the throng consisted of 
Roman Catholtcs, but,· true to 
the Pontiff's call for unity in 
America, many members of 
other denominations also came 
to get a glimpse of the leader of 
the world's Roman Catholics. 
Although the Grant Park mass w~s.the hlgh.point ofJohn PaiJ}·"'
v1stt here, It was by no mea..§' 
the only important event. The 
Pope arrived Thursday night in 
the nation's largest Catholic 
diocese-with 2.4 million mem­
bers. 
From O'Hare Airport, he tra­
velled by motorcade through 
streets clogged with well wish­
ers to Holy Name Cathedral, 
where he told the gathering, 
[continued from page 5] 
sed to the United States. For me personally," she said, "the important dimension comes out first of all through the person that I am, and I don't need a particular garb to be wintess to the person that I am." 
Both Sr. Kolbenschlag and Sr. Starrie talked about the issue of theological permanence of priests in the Church. "We are not infallible. We make mistakes," said Sr. Starrie. "Men who seriously need to make that lifestyle change are forced to put themselves at odds with the Church,'' she added. ''The ideal is that one "How greatly I would like to meet each one of you person­ally to visit in your homes, to walk your streets." 
The motorcade carried him 
through the heart of Chicago's 
Polish district, which is the 
center of the area's Polish 
population -the largest any­
where outside Poland. 
On Friday morning, the Pope, a native Pole, rerurned to that ethnic neighborhood to say Mass in Polish before 200,000 enthusiastic onlookers at Five Holy Martyr's Church. 
Later in the morning, John ~au! directly fa~ed the se~ious 1ssues confronttng Amenca's Roman Catholic Churchy dur­ing a brief meeting with the American Conference of Bish­ops at the Quigley Preparatory Seminary on the city's lower West side. 
In his address, the Pope strongly reaffirmed the Church's stance on abortion artificial contraception, sex out~ 
sid~ of marriage~ homosexual­
ity and divorce. 
The pontiff said he faces the issue of artificial contraception "with the sa~e conviction" as his predecessor, Paul VI, who issued the encyclical, Humanae Vitae. That decree outlawed the use of artificial contracep­tion and has become a center of controversy among the nation's Catholics. . 
Speaking about divorce, he told the bishops, ''The coven­ant between a man and a woman joined in Christian mar­riage is as indissoluble and irrevocabe as God's love for his people and Christ's love for his church." 
Calling sexual intercourse "a moral and human good only within marriage,'' the Pope strongly backed Church teach­ings which ban extra marital sexual relations, and upheld the Church's conviction that homo­sexual activit} is "morally wrong." 
• • • Women priests. 
makes a committment, intends it to be permanent and develops it that way. But, sometimes, people move in a direction which they later find out isn't the right way for then'!'. 
Sr. Kolbenschlag is also sym­pathetic to the issue. She said, "Priests should be allowed to follow their consciences. If they find out that they can no longer live up to the calling as priests, I don't see why the Church should punish them for their conscious decision." 
Almost all of the priests 
contacted desired to refrain from commenting on the issue. Their reasons ranged from not paying close enough attention to the Pope to be well informed of his positions, to not wanting· to comment because of their 
own undecided opinions. 
Fr. William Toohey, however, said "It isn't very clearly established neither biblically nor theologically that women cannot be ordatned. I don't think that it can be readily ruled out so fast as the Pope is doing, 
• • • Hesburgh 
[continued from page 1) 
young and old can be traced to the Pope's "rare combination of excellent qualifications and linguistic skills.'' 
John Paul came to the papacy with qualities not expected in a Pope, Hesburgh said. "John Paul is academic, an athlete, poet, and is not Italtan.'' 
He praised the Pope's "broad vision" and ability to deliver unpopular moral messages with frankness and "extra charm," dung the Pope's denunciation of escapisw..amg!Jg you_duhrough drugs, alcohol and sex. · 
Hesburgh ex{>ressed pleasure with the pontiff's concern about education, nottng the Church's role in the development of early universities. ''The Church is the mother of universities, and needs universities,'' Hesburgh said. John Paul, as a former educator, was "delighted to be back at a university," he added. 
Rumors have been circulating in the capital that Hesburgh might be a candidate for archbishop of the Washington diocese. The rumor ran that the present bishop, William Cardinal Baum, would be an apostolic delegate to Rome. The rumor remained 
at time. 


~ 
r 
~ I 
r. .. 
· .-.«Ao.L: "-=-'<,;.-t..~• '.1.\.I.(I..U.U.\.L.'l&.\A.\.LU.~·A.(A..Ct.'O..'C•.•.~'(.f.~(l.•).'ti.O.:~Y........ : r.·"' r,? r~"r~ :.-·.' '· .. ...,.....-.··...~.·....-.. ··..~~.·.-..........~. ~ 
The Observer ·Monday, October 8, 1979-page 5 

·Rewards old school try 
Pontiff greets ND's :LeCuyer 
by Beth Huffman the helicoptef,'' said LeCuyer, ing." "But I really wanted to see the LeCuyer telephoned his family 
When John LeCuyer traveled Pope so I yelled Father as loud on Saturday to inform them of to Chicago on Friday he was as I could. The secret service his confrontation with the Pope. one of 1.5 million people hoping men'Started to take me back but 
"We were very suprised thatto see Pope John Paul II. he (the Pope) motioned for Unlike so many of the others them to bring me back.'' 
John would d.o something like this. We were just very glad heLeCuyer, a Notre Dame sopho­"He just smiled and em~raced 
wasn't hurt by the guards andmore, not only saw the Pope, me, then put a rosary tn my happy he got the personal
but met him. hand,'' continued LeCuyer". 
contact with the Pope that he so
While LeCuyer was· being
Along with his friend Andy much wanted," ·said Jerome
escorted toward PoJ?e John Paul
Petros, LeCuyer journeyed to LeCuyer, John's father.
II Petros was watchmg from the
the Windy Ctty to attend the LeCuyer did indeed get that
crowd. "I was kind of scared
Holy Father's celebration of the personal contact, "that's what I 
when they surrounded him, I
Mass. Petros and Lecuyer were went up there for,'' he offered. 
wasn't sure what would hap-
on hand to greet John Paul as But in addition to a memorialhis helicopter brought him from pen," said Petros. "If we experience he broug-ht homeQuigley Seminary. would have thought about it we something-1 . 5 millton other 
probably wouldn't have done it. 
people mtsscd, a rosary.
''There must have been four 
It was all so spontaneous.''
or five bus loads of police all around the landing field,'' said 
LeCuyer also emphasized that 
LeCuyer of the security situa­
rLJ!JcpQattfg .attd
the patr' s action was spontane­
tion. "A fence surrounded the 
ous and they did not consider 
field and every 10-15 yards 
J!iJt gQowe~
~hemselves in danger. "It was 
policemen were stationed.'' 
JUSt a spur of the moment thing. I thought it was worth a try. I
LeCuyer knew he just "want­
f=oR €V€RY occas1on
just figured the cops wouldn't
ed to greet the pope,'' so he 
shoot me, the worst they would 
told Petros to bend over and he 
Unre~son~ble Prices
do was just beat me up.''
took a running jump over the fence using Petros' back as a As LeCuyer, a St. Louis na­) Just b1al 284-4841 boost. tive, was greeting the .pope, 
· R€qUlaR BORinq hOURS
"One of the secret service Petros observed the crowd. men yelled 'No you don't, ''Everyone was really happy for Bas€m€nt; o~ l€mans buddy and grabbed me near him and the crowd was cheer-
Some of the faithful attending the papal Mass in Chicago 
Fn"day gave reminders that those not present were stzll 
remembered. [photo by john Macor] . 
John Paul II answers laity 
Vocation excludes women priests 
by Phyllis Washington works beyond this tradition.'' ··his audience wore ordinary 
Sr. Madonna Kolbenschlag, clothing. 
assistant professor ofAmerican Sr. Kolbenschla¥ strongly ob­
Pope .John Paul II stood firm Studies, had a similar opinion jected to the ' distinctive'' 
yesterday in Washington on his on the question of women in the dress code. "Most of the 
decision to exclude women from priesthood. ''It is a proper sisters in the origin~! communi­
the priesthood. Unlike the calling for women," she satd. ties dressed in the contempor­
hearty applause and the 10-If it weren't, then "we are ary dress of the day, and it 
minute standing ovation that assuming that women aren't wasn't until years later that the 
the Pope received in Philadel­capable. If women can be nuns began to dress in habits," 
phia for similar statements, he baptized as Christians, they she said. "I am in favor of the 
was confronted on the issue of should be ordained,'' she said. original idea of not looking any 
women in the priesthood for the Sr. Kolbenschlag also com­different from other people/' 
first time in his visit to the mented that the Pope's remarks she added. 
United States. ''were singularly in politics for For Sr. Starrie, the "distinc­
In a welcoming speech at a the situation in America at this tive dress'' for nuns is not 
morning prayer service for time," and that it was "for the needed in the United States. 
5,000 nuns in Washington, Sr. sake of the priests who feel ''Perhaps there are times when 
Theresa Kane, president of the threatened that he said these . distinctive dress needs to be, 
Leadership Conference of things." however, the Pope is speaking 
Women Religious, challenged The Pope also suggested yes­out ofhis own time. We have to 
the Pope to admit women to terday that nuns should wear remember the Church as it is 
"all ministries of our Church," their distinctive habits in public dominated in Poland as oppo­
including the priesthood. and forego modern garb. 
[continued on page 4]

In his remarks following those About one-third of the nuns in of Sr. Kane, the Pope said that the traditional role of women in the Church is to be teachers, nuns and follwers of the Virgin 
• • . Pope
Mary. The Pope's view that the priesthood is "not a proper of John XXIII; He's a real
[contt'nued from page lJ

calling for women" has caused pilgrim Pope.''
disatisfaction and frustration times. He added "That is all At yesterday's Mass on the 
among Catholic feminists and my message. Finished.'' He Mall, hundreds of thousands 
women's groups around the then en tered the fieldhouse to crowded the raised altar to 
country. adress prominent theologians attend a papal Mass. Many nuns in the Notre Dame­and educators. Jill Mathis, from Northwest 
Saint Mary's community favor Washington, stood on a bench 
the opinion of Sr. Kane and a Brian O'Connor, a student at to see over the crowd. ''I'm 
few of ·them had something to Catholic University, noted, "An thrilled," he said. "It's worth 
aura of excitement'' at the

say about it. anything to see the Pope."
Sr. Marietta Starrie, rector of school over the past week. Florence Oblenski sat near the 
''This Pope is popular because 

Lyons Hall, said "I can only rear of the crowd and listened 
respond second hand (to the he is going out to the people. 
to the Mass on a car radio. She 
Pope's statements) because I He preaches love for human said John Paul's visit "Will didn't hear him talk. If he is beings. He generates love and give America in_sp,iration, and 
saying that there isn't a place warmth. How many times do we can sure use It. 
you see this many students up

for women in the priesthood, A small cluster of nuns stood 
then it raises a lot of questions at seven on a Sunday morn­on chairs across Madison Drive 
for me," she said. "How do I ing?' from the Mall and squinted
understnd the work of the Spirit through binoculars, squealing
Fr. John Nyeste came to

in the Church? What is it that I with delight as they saw the
Wishmgton from Cleveland to

understand about leadership?" 
see John Paul, whom he des­Poe. 

If the decision of the Church is Sr. Mary Virginia Rose exlain­
cribed as ''A true pastor of 

to "call" men to the priesthood soul." ed that 84 nuns had made the 7 and not women, then this 1I 2 hour drive from Cleveland
"He's getting out to get a

"suggests that what we have good picture of the world of to see the pontiff. 
decided to do is to limit the "We had to come just to
Catholicism,'' Nyeste said.

work of God to males," she ''With his love and enthusiasm experience the presence of the 
said, ''and I think that the Spirit he is carrying on in the tradition Holy Father," she said. 
.MONTICELLO CLEANERS Laundr_y and Dr_y Cleaning Service 
'

Students ·laundr_y a hassle? 10 lbs .for 12.50 (press_i-:!~C! included) 

JOIN 1THE NEW STRENGTH IN STEEL Jones and Laughlin Steel are subsiderary of the LTV Co:rJ>. 
The nation's third largest steel makers 
will be on campus tomorrow, Tuesday, Oct. 9, to interview candidates for its Engineering Management Training Programs. 
Interested Metallurgical, Mechanical or Electrical en~ineering students should contact the Placement Office. for information • • • 
~ -E ual Opportunity Employer-~ 
• 1 
~--~ ---~-~~---­
-~­
Editorials 

Monday, October 8, 1979 -page6 

befure the Unhed Sm~s evcr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=
p 0 B Q 
Latin-American speaks out 


I am a Latin-American and, hereby, I proclaim my right to speak about my continent. 
Some people are going to say, I know, that, just because I am able to afford the tuition at Notre Dame I am not qualified to speak about Latin-America: I am rich, people over there are poor. I exploit them; therefore, all my opinions must be fascist. I can only tell these people that I am as qualified to speak about Latin-America as they are to speak about the United States. I still bear in mind an incident that happened to me two years ago. I wanted to initiate an international newspaper be­cause I thought, and I still think, that we foreigners have an important contribution to make to the cultural life of this community. So I talked to one 
of my professors, who referred me to the "man to speak with." 

~ Th~manverypofuelyt~dme ,r to sit down--he spoke Spanish. 
I noticed that he was very r worried about something. The ~ first question he asked me was: r ''What school did you attend r when you were 10 Mexico r City?" "Prer,aratoria La Salle 
del Pedregal, ' I replied. "But that is a private school, isn't r it?" he satd. "You must be a rich Mexican. How can you be concerned about social justice,
f then?" He never actually asked me what I wasconcernedabout. He was an 'expert' on Latin-America. Therefore, he did not 
care to. know what a Latin-American thought about the roblems over there. I remem­
ber having tried to say some­thing about communism .... Dis­creetly, he smiled. "I think you are quite young, still," he said., "You are just beginning 
to think about these matters." 
Needless to say, I did not 
initiate a newspaper with his 
help. 
It seems to me that people who claim to be 'concerned' aboUI Latin-America in this country, usually have many misconcep­tions with regard to the situa­tion there. They general­ly over-simplify and think too much economical, particular ly Marxist, terms. Thus, they classify Latin-America as a part of the Third World, as a land of great contrasts, dictatorships, and social exploitation, as a sub-continent subject to Ameri­can imperialism. 
They like to impute everything Latin-Americans do to North­American influence, as if we were not responsible for the condition of our own countries. They tend to forget that we were part of the Western World 
came into existence. They tend 
to forget that we are a proud 
people. 
When they go to Latin-Ameri-. ca, they usually expect to find two things: poor people and angry revolutionaries. The former, they usually find; the latter, they try to become themselves, atleastverbally. It is my opinion that they are too single-minded and, as a conse­{:uence of thi t 1 d0 th 
s, no on Y ey
ail to appreciate several good aspects related to the Latin-American culture, but they also fail to realize what the real 
social, political, and, economic, problems are. As a rule. thev refuse to listen 
to us. Nevertheless, Latin-Americans redann their right to speak about their continent. 
Carlos Pardo 

====~~~~=====~==~~~=~~~==~~~= 

0 ~ 
• 

HPC decision, fair'? 
Dear Editor: 
Once more the spectre of "dirty politics" has reared its ugly head on campus: Student
Umon criticizin~ the HPC,· the 
HPC accusing U of feathering its nest with complimentary tickets; respected student offi­cials betraymg the trust of their peers by reporting the results of closed meetings. One impor­
tant issue that has not been
publicly addressed, however, concerns the fair distribution of the windfalt of student funds 
that the HPC has received. Concerning the size of the 
allocation--$15,000, or about 12 percent of the total allocated-­this would appear too be an important issue indeed. 
As I understand it, the HPC can distribute these funds in any manner it considers ''fair'' --but is just any distribution that they decide upon "fair?" The assumption underlying the complimentary ticket dispute and large size of the HPC allocation appears to be that every student has the right to 
benefit equally from his or her student activity fee. Intuitively then, it appears that only an equal per capita distribution of 
these funds could be considered -=-----=------=------=.J_ 
1
.,1\1 
• 

lying the ticket dispute appears to have decided what consti­tutes a fair allocation of HPC funds--but isn't such a lar~e allocation of student funds dis­criminatory in itself? What benefits can off-campus stu­dents possibly expect to receive from such an allocation of their activity fees? Shouldn't these funds go to groups or organiza­tions that recruit from and represent the entire student body? The HPC is indeed correct. Students do have an obligation to contribute to social,. activities· and improvements on campus, but only within their own dorms. They have no obligation to finance the activi­ties and improvements of some dorms at the expense of other dorms and the off-campus pop­ulation. Funds for such activi­ties should originate from within the dorms, not from student activity fees. 
The cold reality remains that the HPC has $15,000 to dis­tribute equitably, and only one pattern of distribution--that based upon the number of students per dorm--appears to be truly }air. May the HPC be as ''fair'' on this issue as it has been on the issue of compli­mentary tickets. 
john Coonev 

fair. Some rill~ht object, however, 
that certam dorms are in greater need of improvement concerning social space, activ­ities etc. than others. But if it is unjust to reward certain offi­cials with complimentary tickets, isn't it equally unjust to 
reward certain dorms at the expense ofothers? Why should one dorm, perhaps Planner, be expected to finance social activ­ities and improvements in another dorm, maybe Badin? Why should any dorm expect to receive more that its contribu­tion to such a fund? 
Thus the assumption under-

Budget allocation 
causes st,;r
"' Dear Editor: 
Regarding the article 

concerning the allocation of funds for campus groups and activities: Whether the Hall Presidents Council realizes it or not, the money that was so ~enerously given them for hall tmprovements is NOT collected and set aside for that purpose. The students of this university pay an activity fee every Jear that is supposed to be use for the sponsoring of student ·social, cultural, and recrea­
tiona! acuvtties. (That's 
r,robably why they call it an 
'activity fee", right?) 
I object strongly to the fact 

that HPC has requested and 
received our activity-fee money 
for hall improvements. I agree 
that our halls need improved 
social space. But that money 
should have come from the 
board of trustees, which it did 
not. I am not paying to carpet 
somebody's party room. I don't 
care if it's 10 my dorm or in 
another dorm. I am paying an 
activity fee so that the Student 
Govt. and Student Union can 
provide campus-wide activities 
such as Welcome Week, Blues 
Festival, and An Tostel, just to• 
mention a tew. 
The cut in the Student Union budget and the 60% increase in the HPC budget indicates that we'll have to go without many activities this year that were sponsored by SG/SU last year. If we don't lose the activities altogether, we'll definitely have a reduction in the quality and an increase in the admission fees ofcampus activities. In the mean time, HPC will be sitting pretty with a big budget and nothing to spend it on that will concern every student on campus. 
·I am tired of paying fees that aren't used for what they were intended for, and I'm nred of hearing people complain that there isn't anything to do around here. After this disasterous budget allocation, we'll surely have less to do and it will cost more to do less. refuse to go along with such an allocation and if that "activity fee" wasn't already paid, I'd hold it out from my tuition bill. Maybe we could ask for a refund. . . but then they'd probably take the refunds out of something equally as important as social acnvities. Where is the Campaign for Notre Dame when we need it??? 
Name Withheld 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 
-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ........ Rosemary Mills Sports Editor .... .............. Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46JJ6 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ... .....Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able ro all members of the community, News Editor .. .................. Mark Rust Production Manager .......Tim Sullivan ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of vai-ying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager .........Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor ..... Elien Buddr. Controller........... .......Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor........ Margie Brasstl Circulation Manager ..... .Greg Hedges 

• 

-
-
Monday, October 8, 1979-page7 
. . Mark Muzzillo 

Hamlet-Excellent Beginning 
Producing HAMLET is the ultimate undertaking 
for a serious theatre group. This reality, however, 
did not inhibit the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre 
from using HAMLET to commence their 1979-80 
season. The bravery shown in undertaking this 
project is matched by the work which went into 
producing it. The fine result justifies the efforts 
expended.
Professional actor Lance Davis has returned to his 
alma mater as guest artist to star as Hamlet. ~e 
provides a strong, vital presence on stage and thts 
quality, coupled with a good supporting cast, makes 
the play work. The direction is good; and above all, 
Shakespeare's wonderful language can be clearly 
understood by the audience. This does not hap_pen 
by accident, and inaudible dialogue is often the final 
flaw which ruins Shakespeare for an audience. But 
those of us who saw it on Saturday evening could 
hear almost ever:y lone with crysta! clarity'· and thus 
we were able to truly enjoy thts classtc work. 
Director Bain and the entire cast must have worked 
hard to achieve this most desirable goal. 
After not being used for a major production in five years, Washington Hall serves as home for HAMLET. Thts provides for a more in!imate experience for the audience, yet the stage ts more confining than at O'Laug~lin. To compt?nsate .for this the cast makes effecuve use of the atsles, stde ent;ances and balcony to bring the action to audience.' This creatively varied the location of the scenes and kept the production from being hindered by the ~mall stage. When the entire stage was lit u_p, however it was an unfortunate distraction to see die back wail with its unpainted portions, alcoves, doorways, and exposed plumbing. Backdrop should have been used. 
Reginald Bain knew his business in directing this production. The play kept its focus and moved well, especially for a performance lasting ov~r three hours. I wish that in the program Mr. ~am would have given us an indication of how he mterpret<:d this play. The director's comment for a work of thts stature should be more than just a welcome address to the guest artist. The recorded music and the sound of the wind were effectively used to create the desired moods. This 
It was another routine day. The senior safety engineer walked through the mill that afternoon with his mmd half on dinner and half on the plans he had made to attend his son's college football game next weekend. But the noises of the machinery around him caused him to stop short. He noticed immediately that the tractor repairs he had ordered several days before had still not been made. These unsafe or at least risky machines were in opera­tion all over the mill, moving tons of equipment both overhead and on ground level. 
He looked at his watch. It was two o'clock in the afternoon, just when every mill worker was working at optimum production. He wondered at the value of ordering the repairs again. Perhaps in a couple of days .... He was never one to throw his weight around. In fact, he could still hear his wife describing him to her friend as such a "reasonable man." But then, he was an honest man too; the kind you don't find often these days. 
"If I were to let these repatrs go a few more days," he thought to himself, ''and someone were to get hurt, I'd never be able to forg1ve myself. I know the chances are slim, but one person's leg, arm, or death is one too many for my conscience." It was his respo~ibility to insure the mill's safety, but then, he was no hero. He had tried to go through the normal repair order procedure, how­ever, and with no effect at all. He shook his head and looked intently into the face of one of the drivers. "Tim's only twenty five and has four kids at home'', he remembered to himself. 
By 2:15 .Pm that same day, the safety engmeer opened the door o~ 
effectiveness was somewhat offset by the members of the cast who were obviously faking the playing of instruments. I would also trade the useless presence of the full cast at the beginning of the pfay for a longer curtain call in whiCh the major members of the cast appeared individually rather than all at.once for a briet, g_eneral applause. The duel betWeen Hamlet and -Laertes seemed needlessly long and drawn out and may have been more effecttve if done with lig!Iter weapons. On the other hand1 it was most effective to play to the ghost of KmgHamlet off-stage. Without ever seeing the ghost, we were well aware of its presence. 
He Was No Hero 
his office to the incessant ringing of his telephone. He knew who tt was, of course--the boss. He hadn't even had time to explain his actions. Now he would be held accountable for shutting down the plant at optimum production time. He put the receiver to his ear and heard the somber cadence, "You're ftred." 
Joan Jacobsen, a senior BA major, who has worked for the steel mills for the past three summers interviewed the man whose story has been embellished here. 
Joan was one of twenty five Notre Dame students who interviewed busi­nessmen, lawyers and engineers this summer on questions of values and professional ethics. This pilot project called Career Value Explorations grew out of interest generated within the '78-'79 Education for Justice Subcommittee on Experiential Lear­ning and the Unseen City course taught by Father Don McNeill. 
Most ofthe students selected one or more persons to interview and then: 
1) Discussed their perspective on justice and ethics as it pertains to their work. 
2) Wrote a short reflection paper about insights or questions arismg from the interview experience. 
3) Attended a feed-back session with a professor in their field of study and other s~dents who participated in the proJect. Each student's experience was differ­ent, but each was rewarding. 
Nora Jordan interviewed a business man who felt that although his company did hire minorities and give them good payin~ jobs, they were rarely put in positions of authority or given any power. He said that there was not one vice president or even 
one black manager in the company. 
This, he felt, was degrading. 
John Senica interviewed a Chicago 
attorney who graduated from Notre 
Dame in 1947. This lawyer expressed 
deep concern over the fact that 
America is becoming a more and 
more litigation-oriented society. He 
believes that the incessant legal 
bickering and assaulting between 
individuals greatly conflicts with 
deep rooted Christian tradition. 
During the evaluation meetings, it became apparent that the project affected more than one student's career decision. Lucy Maloney, for example, was influenced by the example ofthe man she interviewed. This attorney started out as a corporation lawyer, was turned off by the money-oriented world and began to participate in legal aid programs. Lucy reflects: 
Money-making schemes were never all that important to me, and I had been, oflate, very turned off by all those who had assumed that my reason for pursuing a law career was based solely upon how rich I might get. I am much more interested in pushing for changes and working with volunteer groups than I am in amassing a fortune. 
One of Lucy's reflections was that "although sacrificing values to achieve financial security seems to be a given in the business world, only the practice of values can keep them alive.'' The practice of what might be called Christian values can also cause a person a lot of trouble, as in the case of our hero, the safety engineer. His story ended happily, 'however, because he was reinstated to his position three days later. This would not have to have been the case 
The costumes were more than adequate and 
provided the only color and life in an otherwise stark 
setting. Two exceptions were the fur piece and 
medallion worn by Claudius (which seemed to be a 
cheap imitation of the garb worn in Holbein's 
portrait of Thomas Moore), and Polonius' purple 
bonnet (which was distractingly tied beneath his 
chin and made it look like he was about to go to bed 
on aJark bench on a cold night, or embark on a 
Worl War-I flying mission ) The lighting was 
generally well done and easily focused the audience's 
attention. A few minor mistakes did not harm the 
production.

The characters were well cast with no weak links. 
This is important in ·a production with a guest artist 
who can, in looking so good, make the rest of the cast 
look bad. This did not fiappen here, and so the entire 
cast can truly share the credit for the success of this 
HAMLET. 

Jack Connolly carried the role of Claudius, but 
could have been more forceful. Both Susan Gosdick 
as Gertrude anJ Tony Mockus as Laertes started out 
weakly, but more than redeemed themselves by 
finishmg up very strongly. Even the minor 
characters performed well, most notably William 
Lawler as the Grave Digger.. Cathy Hurst was an 
excellent and beautiful Ophelia. Polonius was ; brilliantly portrayed by John Davenport. 1 Lance Davis is a fine actor. He created a power 
on-stage wt:Jich was evidenced by the piercing eyes . and facial eYpressions he used to bring Hamlet alive. Hewascentral int his production, he knew it, and he 
lived up to expectations. He caQtured the audience 
and then was able to move lreely through the 
varying moods of Hamlet. He was particularly
outstanding early in the play. As the performance
progressecf, however, hts confidence became coclCiness; and in the end, he interpreted the role too, flippantly. This was most nottceable when he discovers he has killed Polonius. His actions here inappropriately elicited laughter from the audience. But overall it ws a good evening of theatre. Such an ambitious and successful beginning bodes well for 
the balance of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre 
season. 

and for many people, such reinstate­ment would be an unthinkable result of a moral action. 
Several observations from the feed­back discussions deserve mention here if the scope of the Career Value Explorations project is ·to be made clear. 
1. 
Those involved in the meeting were able to see clearly the power or leverage of job security or insecurity in moral issues. This is an important truth to experience and consider especially for students who learn ordinarily through books. 

2. 
Although morality cannot be taught per se, thoughtful criteria for value judgments and decision making are part of higher education. 

3. 
The complexity of moralilty in social problems became apparent to students especially if they inter­viewed more than one person and encountered differing views. 

4. 
Not only did the person interviewed have to look into his/her conscience, but the students and professors as well became involved. Even parents became part of the process in several student's shari'lg. 

5. 
The overreaching question pursued was whether one has two sets of values--work and personal, or whether one can operate profession­ally with one consistent basis for value judgments. 


Plans are definitely in the making for the continuation and expansion of the Career Value Exploration pro­gram for next summer and over various semester breaks. Prepara­tion and counseling before the toter­views, including role playing, will be part of the continuing program. For more information, please contact Karen Smith at the Center for Experiential Learning, 1110 Memo­rial Library, #2788. 
------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
I I ­
I The Observer Monday, October 8, 1979-page 8 
World Hunger Coalition, which uses all of its fund-raising proceeds for overseas relief aid, petitioned and received $325 for tts conferences, movies and speakers to educate students about world poverty. 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Council for the Retarded focus­es its work on, aiding the mentally and physically handi­capped of the South Bend area, and depends on its funds from the college and university community. The council peti­tioned for $1000 to aid in its activities with Logan Center. It received $600. 
The neighborhood Study Help Program, also a joint Notre Dame/Saint Mary's organiza­tion requested $1000 to help defray the cost of a new van tt needs to buy to take students to and from the neighborhood centers where they work as tutors. The program also sponsors special activities for the children it works with. The group ws allotted $700 by the Assembly. 
The Neighborhood Roots Or­ganization requested $200 to help defray the cost of its trip in November to neighborhoods in the South Bend area. This tri,P is offered once each year and ts followed by a dinner and dis­cussion of the neighborhoods visited. The orgamzation was· granted $2 5. ­
The Notre Dame ISaint Mary's Right to Life Club's goal is to increase students' awareness of the current problems which threaten human life. The club runs a speaker series and bus trip to Washington as well as sponsoring masses held on both campuses each month. Mem­
. hers requested $300 and receiv­ed $100 to offset their expens­es. 
The Student National Educa­tion Association, (SNEA), requested and received $250 to 
t 
t 
t t 
~ 
• • • Allots

t 
Presents, 
THE ALBUM HOUR Monday thru Thursday nice from 12-1 
Featuring a new release album pl~yed in its entireicy. Brought to you by Camelot Music in the Umv. Park Mall, where every 7.99 L.P. featured is offered to N.D. and S.M. C. for 5.99 with l.D. And each Wednesday nite a new album is · , all from Camelot Music: offeset the cost of sending students to New Mexico each summer. .. The Notre DameI Saint Mary's Sailing Club, which suffered a great loss last year when its boathouse burned down, re­quested funds to offset its loan for a new boathouse and for the upkeep of the boats used by members. The club requested $300 and ws awarded $200. 
The Sociology Club, in its second year, requested $189 for its activites. These include a Mini-Urban Plunge program, films, and speakers which are open to all students. The club received $100. 
The Saint Mary's Government Department requested $250 to help defray the cost of sending students to the Model United Nat~ons program in New York. Whtle the students pay their expenses, the money would be used to pay the fees necessary for the trip. The Assembly allotted the departemt · $150, suggesting that they apply for matching funds from the col­lege since not enough were available from Student Govern­ment. 
''Fun and Learn Center'' sponsored by the Children's Dispensary Inc. did not have a representative at the meeting. In its application for funds however, it said the purpose of the center is ''to strengthen the learning disabled child's skills and to supplement classroom learning_ through specifically designed and success oriented activt ties. " 

The center asked for any amount the Assembly could grant it and received $50. 
According to Wixted, each group wishing to al?peal its allocation must submtt an ap­peal to Student Body President, Pia Trigiani or Wixted, within 10 days. 
The allocations are made on an individual basis according to the criterion of the Assembly and not in regards to the total allocation fund available. 
One group, the Biology Club, was not sure if it would appeal the deci<;ion. According to 

· Anne Connelly,. president of the clu~·, , !ue to the high cost of applyir.g for Beta Beta Beta membership, the amount the club received will make their budget difficult to work with. Connolley pointed out that with twice the membership of last year, they received $25 less this 
year. The Neighborhood Study Help Program, although receiving $~00 less that it requested, was sttll happy with its allocation. "I didn't realize Saint Mary's only had $3500 to give out so I think receiving 20 percent is pretty good,'' explained Susan Clause, co-ordinator of NSHP. Other groups could not be contacted last night for com­ment. 
• • . Castro 

States and the Soviet Union
[continued from page 3] 

over the reported presence of a States would foilow a major Soviet combat brigade in Cuba. dispute between the United The Soviets denied the re,Port, 
which was based on U.S. Intel­
(continued from page 1) 
been crying for three years to ~et club status at Notre Dame, 
ut has been turned down each time. Working with equipment at Notre Dame which is 30 years old, and with little·equipmen tat Saint Mary's!, the club must raise $1200 to apply for a loa n to buy new eqUipment which would be set up at Saint Mary 's and be accessible to Noere Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents. The group was granted $200. 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary 's 

c-ST. MARY'S -:1
fl• UTERARY MAGAZINE •'J 
-CHIMES-­
now accepting poems, fiction, 
photography and short olavs Fall Semester Deadline : 12/1/79 ADDRESS MANUSCRIPTS TO 
1. DR.IMAX WES'fi..ER .I 

ligence findings,· and Castro insisted that the unit has beeo 10 Cuba s10ce 1962 and its
• • Services
• mission has not been changed. Last Monday, President Car­[contif!ued from page 3] organizations are: Alpha Phi ter announced that the Soviets ing weJotare rights, prison re-Omega, Amnesty Internation, would not remove or dismantle form or adequate housing. Angle Air Flight, AVIDD 1 Big the unit, but had pledged that 
The last type is entitled "Edu-Brohers/Big Ststers, CILA, Cir­the 2,600 troops are a training cative." Its goal is to make cle K, Community Servics, brigade, rather than a combat people aware of various prob-Council for the Retarded (Lo~an unit, and that their role would lems, social, political, or other-Center), Head Start, Hot L10e, not be changed or expanded. wise, through films, work-ND/SMC Hunger Coalition, Castro said in an interview two shops, and seminars. MANASA MECHA Neigh-weeks ago he would welcome a 
There are ei~hteen volunteet hood Study 1 Help Program, meeting with Carter to discuss organizations 10 all, consisting Primary Day School, Regional the issue, but Passage's state­of members from both Saint Juvenile Corrections Project, ments yesterday ruled out such Mary's and Notre Dame. The i and Upward Bound. an unprecedented summit. 
• • • Duerson 

and Special Guest 
Faith Bandl 
FRIDAY OCTOBER 19th 8 pm Notre Dame ACC Tickets $8.50 and $7.50 On sale now at ACC Box Office and Student Union Ticket Office 
Attention: 
Night Editors and Assistants 
Production Meeting tonight at 9: 00 
(continued from page 12] 

the toss. Linebacker Bob 
Crable fell on the ball, and 
officials ruled the pass a 
fumbled lateral, giving the Irish 
the ball at the Tech 22. 
"I couldn't see it from the field," Tech coach Pepper Rodgers said, "But my people in the box said that 1t was batted by a lineman. It's too bad because it won the football game.'' 
"It was definitely a controver­sial play," Kelley added. "A Notre Dame lineman definitely tipped the ball. It should have been incomplete. I pointed that out to the official, and he agreed with me, but the call stood.'' 
The rest was up to Ferguson, who pounded for five yards and then sped the final 17 for the final score. 
Three Yellow ] acket punts inside the Notre Dame five-yard line made things a little uneasy for the fans who stayed until the end, but twice Ferguson took
: 
the Irish out ofdanger with long 
runs. A personal foul by Tech 
gave Notre Dame the final first 
down they needed to run out 
the clock. 
"It's good for your team to have to win a game like this," said Irish coach Dan Devine, ''where you have to handle the ball when it's wet, run out of the shadow of your own goal posts, and hold on defense. We should learn something from our play today and get better as we go on. 
"I can't honestly say we had the same intensity that we had the last three weeks, but I'm not too sute that's possible." 

GAME NOTES: When Chuck Male missed a 57-yard field goal late in the ftrst half, it snapped a .string of eight con­secutive three-pointers for the Irish placekicker. Male still has another string going, as he connected on his 22 consecutive conversion attempt....Vagas Fer_guson now needs 104 yards to tte]erome Heavens as Notre~ Uame's top career rusher. It was his third 100-yard game of the season, and also the ninth of his career, one behind the Notre Dame record shared by Heavens and George Gipp. 
... Computers 
[continued from page 12] 

coaches in all sports in prepar­ing for games. 
This is not to say that the computer will eventually replace the assistant coach or even the head coach, but only that it is an important tool and that when used correctly, it can greatly enhance a team's chances to win or even help run a more efficient ticket sales and statisticat compliation. 
The Observer Monday, October 8, 1979 -page 9 
Troopers repel throng Protesters assault atomic power plant 
Much of the fourth f!oor of Grace Hall was rto,oae~a some ofthe lavatory faczlities malfunctioned. 
Rich explains role of SMC Student Affairs 
by Pam Degnan Senior S,taf!Reporter 
Saint Mary's S-tudentAffairsOf­fice serves as the link between the college's institutional au­thority and the student body Kathleen Rich, dean of Stu­dents, explained last night in an informal meeting with the Saint Mary's Board of Governance. 
"We at Student Affairs beli­eve in student development. A well-rounded college education should foster an intellectual, spiritual and emotional growth, Rice said. 
Rich then explained to the board that in every community there are rules and Saint Mary's is no exception. 
Rules are important, Rice added, to any structured organ­ization. However, Rice said, it is not the rules themselves, but how they are interpreted that Rules are important, Rice ad­ded, to any structured organiza­tion. However, Rice said, it is 
not the rules themselves, but , 
how they are interpreted that i 
lead to student unrest. 
''At Student Affairs we try our ' 
best to clarify the college's 
Plunge extends deadline 
The deadline for completed applications for the Urban Plunge has been extended to noon on Wednesday, October 
11. because of the large number of students who travelled to Chicago on Friday for the visit of John Paul II. A{>plications should be turned 10 to the Campus Ministry Office no later than this date, 
.............• .. •... 
regulations," bean Rice poin­ted out. "I know there exists a fine line between interference and intervention. My job as Dean of Students is to assure each student that these rules do not suffocate their lives." 

SEABROOK N.H. (AP) ­Hundreds of Anti-nuclear pro­testers repeatedly assaulted the Seabrook atomic power plant yesterday but were repulsed by state troopers and National 
. Guardsmen using fire hoses, 
• · 

Mace and a smoke-spewing 
1

··. , generator. Waves of demonstrators twice 
assaulted the fence surround­ing the construction site and ripped down whole sections ofit 
•·• wtth ropes. Troopers and . Guardsmen surged through the 
gap, spraying Mace and driving ... the protesters back along an 
•·• ; access road. 
But more than 1,000 of them quickly regrouped and marched a mile in the rain to the plant entrance, where they were met by troopers and guardsmen standing shoulder to shoulder behind the main gate. Fire hoses were turned on the crowd and a stream of smoke was unleashed from a generator. 
But the chanting protesters, clad in rain slickers and plastic sheets, put their backs against the cham-link gate and defied authorites to move them. Utility workers then emptied two water trucks onto the crowd but were unable to disperse them immediately. 
The demonstrators eventually backed off but continued to mill about in front of the gate. Some returned to campsites in the nearby woods. 
Police reinforcements from other sections of the construc­tion site were brought to the main gate. Traffic was blocked on busy U.S. Highway 1, the main road through the town of Seabrook. 
Ten people were arrested yes­terday bnnging to 19 the num­ber arrested on criminal tres­passing charges in the two-day a~tempt to occupy the Sc;abrook sue; long a focal pomt for 
Sale features eel paintings 
Over 200 animation eel paint­this area. · A representative of ings, "eels," will be offered for the gallery will be available to sale today through Wednesday, answer questions. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., in· the The sale will feature the works LaFortune main lobby. of Chuck Jones, an Academy 
Cels are paintings used in Award winner and creator of making animated films. They The Roadrunner. Paintings of are handpainted and one-of-a­Porky Pig, Yosemite Sam and 
kind, not reproductions or prin­Daffy Duck will also be on sale, ts. This collection has been along with selections from Walt authenticated by Galle~y Lainz­Disney Productions' films such 
berg, the Cedar Rapids, lA as ''Robin Hood,'' ''The]ungle gallery which has received na­Book," "The Rescuers," and tional attention as specialists in "Pete's Dragon." ~ 
N H 

RESTAURANT 
Chinese mandarin and American lunch ffion-Sat 
------2:00 p.m. Salad Bar plus 7 nese american entrees. II !IOU can eat for 12.95 
o add to JIOUf dining pleasure: h person receives 50% off an!l ktalls or soft drinks with dlnnet .._V1......ted In Randall's 272-7373 
New Century Inn at open 7 days 130 DlxleW So. a week 
demonstrations against the use of nuclear power. One other demonstrator was arrested on a charge of criminal mischief. Officers also confiscated gas masks and other gear from protesters. 
Earlier, the demonstrators at­tempted to enter the facility at separate sites along the chain­link fence surrounding the 140­acre site. The first assault, by about 75 protesters, fizzled after a squad of troopers moved from behind the fence and sprayed them with Mace and smoke bombs. 
Other officers in boats used jackknives to slash truck tire inner tubes the protesters were using as a makeshift pontoon bridge across a tidal inlet in the marshland. 
A few hours later, about 500 demonstrators returned in two groups and managed to bring down sections of the fence before being turned back. 
The early skirmishes at first appeared to dim the spirits of demonstrators who had camped in the rain overnight in the marshland, after a failed at­tempt to take over the plant Saturday. 
On Saturday, about 1,500 pro­testers failed to force their way through the 8-foot-high fence along the south perimeter of the sprawling plant. They were repelled by more than 500 state troopers and National Guards­men using fire hoses, Mace. tear gas and riot batons. 
rwsND AM 


Talk-It-Up with Emil _____H<lfm.Wl.ill!. Fresqmap_ye3j"_ 
Mon. Oct.S 9-10 p.m.
L Live Call-In Program _) 
--We Deliver-­
Pinocchio's __.... Pizza Parlor Come watch MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL 
I 

ND on our four foot T.V.! 
Cleveland Rd. 
"'C •"' 
c-. .9
..c: 
§ "' ~ u E .!3 
Ell..
r..l. 

Come On In!! 277-4522 

~ r........ ·-­
.... 

.& c: Pitchers only $2.00 2 Dratts just 50¢ with presentaiioii--. of student ID 
..... -............._....._...._I"MM·-••••n• 
The Observer -SportsBoard Monday, October 8, 1979 -page 10 
S. Mississippi 30, N. Texas St 10 San Diego St. 35, New Mexico 7 National Conference 
Tulane 42, Vanderbilt 14 Southern Cal 50, Washington St. 21 East VMI 24, E. Tennessee St. 14 Stanford 27, UCLA 24 Dallas 51 0 .833 148 113
Football Cross-Country
Wake Forest -19, Virginia Tech 14 Utah 21, Colorado St. 16 Philadelphia 51 0 .833 121 89 
W. VIrginia 10, Kentucky 6 Utah St. 51, Long Beach St. 28 Washington 4 2 0 .667 131 95 College Football Scam William & Mary 33, James Madison 0 Washington 41, regon St. 0 2 4 0 .333 100 115
St. Louis EAST Wofford 27, Furman 17 Wyoming 23, Texas-EI Paso 3 

N.Y. Giants 1 5 0 .167 75 132 NOTRE DAME INVITATIONALArmy 17, Duke 17, Tie MIDWEST INTERHALLFOOTBALL Central 
Boston U. 14, Harvard 10 Cent. Michl~an 26, Ohio·U. 0 Alumni 7, Howard 0 Tampa Bay 51 0 .833 133 88 Blue Division -5Mile Course
Brown 31, Princeton 12 Drake 41, N Missouri 6 Dillon 14, Morrissey 0 Chicago 3 3 0 .500 88 82 
Bucknell 10, Cornell 0 E. Michigan o. N. Illinois 0, Tie 3 3 0 .500 107 142
Fisher 0, Pangborn 0 Minnesota 1) Auburn -34 pts. 2) Illinois State 3)Columbia 12, Penn 7 Indiana 3, Wisconsin 0 Stanford 7, Grace 0 Green Bay 2 4 0 .333 96 112 Michigan 4) Cleveland State 5) Toledo 6)
Holy Cross 13, Dartmouth 7 Iowa 13, Illinois 7 

Zahm 13, Flanner 0 Detroit· 1 5 ,0 .167 101 149 Saginaw 7) Bowling Green 8) EasternNavy 13, Air Force 9 Kent St. 13, W. Michigan 13 W11f Illinois 9) North Central College 10) St.
National Football League

Pittsburgh 28, Boston College 7 Michigan 21, Michigan St. 7 .667 119
. Los Angeles 4 2 iO 95 Thomas 11) Marshal 12) Ball St. 13)
Slippery Rock 3, California, Pa. 0 Minnesota 31, Purdue 14 .500 126Atlanta 3 3 10 111 NOTRE DAME-304 14) Drake University
American Conference

Temple 41, Rutgers 20 Nebraska 57, New Mexico St. 0 New Orleans 2 4 0 .333 138 164 15) Western Michigan 16) Malone 17)
East

Yale 27, Colgate 0 Notre Dame 21, Georgia Tech 13 San Francisco 0 6 0 .000 113 172 Augustana 18) Hillsdale 19) Mankato St. SOUTH Ohio St. 16, Northwestern 7 WL T Pet. PF PA Sunday's Gam11 20) Troy St. 21) Purdue Alabama 38, Wichita St. 0 Oklahoma 49, Colorado 24 Miami 41 0 .800 113 78 
Chica~o 7, Buffalo 0 

Arkansas St. 24, Richmond 3 Pacific U. 24, Iowa St. 7 New England 4 2 0 .667 ·154 98 New n~land 24, Detroit 17 Auburn 44, N. Carolina St. 31 S. Illinois 7, Illinois St. 0 Buffalo 3 3 0 .500 154 111 Atlanta 5, Green Bay 7 Blue Division Individual Top Five
Citadel 21, W. Carolina 19 Syracuse 45, Kansas 27 N.Y. Jets 2 4 0 .333 128 174 Philadelphia 28, Washington 17 Clemson 17, Virginia 7 Toledo 23, Bowling Green 17 Baltimore 1 5 10 .167 72 112 New York Giants 17, Tampa Bay 14 1) Graves -Auburn, 23:35 2) Schlacter ­Florida A&M 16, Miami, Fla. 13 Tulsa 9, Kansas St. 6 Central St. Louis 24, Houston 17 Ball St. 3) Fox -Auburn 4) James ­Florida St. 27, Louisville 0 SOUTHWEST Pittsburgh 51 0 .833 160 106 Pittsbur~h 51, Cleveland 35 Cleveland St. 5) Helkklnnen -Michigan
Fordham 27, Wash. & Lee 15 Arkansas 16, Texas Christian 13 Cleveland 4 2 0 .667 136 145 Knsas City 10. Cincinnati 7 GeorQia 24, Mississippi 21 Houston 13, Baylor 10 Houston 4 2 0 .667 134 132 Dallas 36, Minnesota 20 Louisiana St. 20, Florida 3 Lamar 12, W. Texas St. 12, Tie Cincinnati 0 6 0 .000 85 159 Los Angeles 35, New Orleans 17 
Gold Olvlslon Top Ten TeamsLouisiana Tech 17, SW Louisiana 0 McNeese St. 14, Texas-Arlington 13 West Baltimore 10, New York Jets 8 Miami, Ohio 28, Marshall 0 Texas 26, Rice 9 Denver 4 2 0 .667 86 91 Denver 7, San Diego 0 1) University of Wisconsin -LaCrosse, 61Mississippi St. 28, Tennessee 9 Texas Tech 21, Texas A&M 20 Kansas City 4 2 0 .667 113 67 Seattle 35, San Francisco 24 pts. 2) Marquette University 3) University

N. Carolina 35, Clnclnnatl14 FAR WEST San Diego 4 2 0 .667 142 88 Monday's Games of Pittsburgh -Johnstown 4) Indiana StatePenn St. 27. Maryland 7 Nev.-Las V~as 35, N. Colmado 31 Oakland 2 3 0 .400 78 112 Miami at Oakland, (n) University 5) Morehead St. 6) Ferris St.
128 147

S. Carolina 23, Oklahoma St. 16 Oregon 19, alifornia 14 Seattle 2 4 0 .333 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli 

ACROSS 28 Duplicity 53 Hunting dog 13 Irritated Aurora 30 Man in a 56 Office 19 Care in 5 Radiate cast worker handling
The Daily Crossword 

9 Jewish 32 Advent: 57 Rudiments people teacher abbr. 58 Be unalert 21 Place for 14 Pennsyl-33 Veranda 61 Luxurious a vessel 
vania port 35 Uttered 64 Is very 25 Particle 15 Atmosphere mocking smug 27 Saharan 16 Certain words 67 -boy! 28 Information 
tanker 39 Bonds 68 Out of this 29 Goddess of 17 North wind 41 Nitwit world discord in Europe 43 Plunge 69 Continent 30 Fields 18 Bumptious 44 Item of 70 At the home 31 Chinese dog 
person ownership of: Fr. 34 Optimistic 20 Coasters 46 Used needle 71 Sediment 36 Braggarts 22 Act the and thread 72 Permits 37 Work of 
lawyer 48 Card game 73 Catch Satan 23 That girl 49 Serving sight of 38 Refuse 24 Appease dishes 40 Matched 26 Pursued 51 Fitting DOWN collections 
1 Society 42 Snug lasses retreatFriday's Puzzle Solved~ 2 Seed cover-45 Braids 
ing 47 Profound 3 Egotists 50 King of 4 Heckle Huns 5 Auto fuel 52 Intertwine 6 Having 53 Made a cake 


swellings 54 A Doubleday 7 Nuncupative 55 Win out B Item for 56 Cleave 
sale 59 Relative 9 lnconsider-of etc. ate driver 60 Alleviate 10 Be under 62 Action 
the weather 63 Unsure 11 Consecrate 65 Hairpiece 12 --de-mer 66 -Vegas 
All Rights Reserved 


7) Edlnborough St. 8) Harding University 
9) Norther Illinois University 10) Southeast Missouri 
Gold Division Individual Top Flva 
1) Erdel-Norther Illinois, 24:18 2) Skorseth -Marquette 3) Gafney -Morehead St. 4) Lott -Northern Kentucky 5) Husz ­Wisconsin -LaCrosse 
Open Division 

1) Hansen 2) Diemer-Michigan 3) Jones­Auburn 4) Wohlhuter 5) Ingold 
High School Division 

1) Penn -20 pts. 2) New Prairie 3) Plymouth 4) Riley 5) Adams 
• • • Lovejoy 
(continued from page 12] 

Describing the goal, Devereux 
-a two-monogram winner -said 
simply, "I got the ball and saw 
Kevin in front of me and I just 
passed it to him." 

Down the stretch, Marquette 
was rarely able to cross mid­
field with much control. Milli­
gan repelled the best Warrior 
chance of the ni~ht with 15: 55 
remaining when e left his feet 
to knock away a blast off the 
toe of Marquette's]ames Don­
ahue. 

After that, most of the action coming from the Hillto~per squad was in the form of ody contact. Dueker received one yellow card after he clotheslin­ed Lovejoy with a stiffarm. Fullback Dennis Kapusta ~ot another when he lodged Ma1 in the turf. ''Those guys kind of 
. gave up at the end. They didn't 
try to hurry the clock,'' Dever­
eux noted. 

Notre Dame now prepares for a 
weekend tournament in Wis­
consin with a game against 
VaiSaraiso at 4 p.m. Tuesday 
on tepan Field. 

UNITED WAY at N. D• 


100 percent 90 percent 80 percent 

70 percent 60 percent 50 
percent 
40 percent 30 percent 20 percent 10 percent 0 percent 

FA FJ FL GR HC HO KE LE l Y MO PA SE SO ST W A ZA
Al BA BP CR CV OJ 

PARTICIPATION CHART 




The Observer -Sports ;Monday, October 8, 1979 -page 11 

Series begins Tuesday 
BALTIMORE (AP) -It has taken eight years to arrange the rematch, which isn't exactly an instant replay. But baseball wouldn't mind a World Series like the one Baltimore and Pittsburgh played in 1971. 
That seven-game showdown was the last time the Orioles and Pirates played for the World ChampiOnship and was one of the most dramatic Series in recent years. Now the same two teams will meet again in the 1979 Series beginning Tues­day night in Baltimore. 

Ptttsburgh will use lanky Bruce Kison in the opener with the Orioles sending Mike Flan­agan against him. 
Baltimore advanced to the Series by winning the American League East Division race and then defeating California in four games in the championshi{l playoff. Pittsburgh captured the National League East on the final day of the regular season and then wiped out Cincinnati in three straight games in the playoffs. 
There are striking siiniliarities between the two Clubs. Both have succeeded without much help from the free agent mar­ketplace and, in fact, have lost 
some key performers to that auction. Both have strong, deep bullpens and managers 
who won't hesitate to go to them. Earl Weaver is the man in 
charge in the Oriole dugout. He has been Baltimore's pilot j since the middle of 1968. 
Weaver will match strategy moves with Pittsburgh's Chuck 
j
Tanner, a major league mana­ger since 1970, who had never won a title until this year. Tanner's Pirates had become bridesmaids with two straight second place finishes until this year when they clinched the East title on the final day of the regular season. 

Classifieds  All classified ads must be received by 5:00 p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Obstrver office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.  

Need ride to Chicago (O'Hare) any time after USC game on Oct. 20. Will pay ALLNotices tolls. Rod 8333. Used Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. Colonial Caterers at Century Center 9-7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Rd. needs part-time bartenders, busboys,Niles. 683-2888. cashiers, waiters. waitresses, and kitchen personnel. Breakfast and Luncheon helpMorrissey Loan Fund needed most. Apply in kitchen across Last day to appl~ for loans before fall from entrance 4 in rear of Centurybreak is October lB. $20-$200. Due in Center. one month. 1 percent interest charge. Need ride for two to Northern NJ for Typing -­experienced in dissertations, October break. Steve 1432. essys, term papers. Selectric typewriter. 232-5715. Please help--l'm in desperate need of a ride to either Harrisburg, PA or Laurel,Typist--will do typing, neat, accurate. MD for October break. Willing to share Call 287-5162. driving and expenses. If you are going that way please drop me off. Call SherryTyping. IBM Selectric. Call 277-0296. 7915. The Dental Hygiene Clinic at IUSB is open Need a ride to Denver, CO over October for persons seeking oral hygiene care break. Willing to share expenses. If you(cleaning of teeth). The clinic is open have the room. please call 7915. Thanks. from 9 am to 5 pm, Mon-Fri. Call 237-4156 to make an appointment. Need ride to Philadelphia, New JerseyBesides taking x-rays and cleaning teeth, area for October break. Will help with the dental hygienists work in the Dental gas. Dan 1502. Restorative Clinic. Persons who do not have a local dentist and who are seeking Need ride to 0' Hare airport morning of dental restorative care (fillings) can call October 21 and/or ride back to campus237-4352 to make an appointment. The from O'Hare October 2Bth. l'JI pay gasRestorative Clinic is open from 9 am to 4 money. Call 4635. pm Tuesdays and 1:15 to 4pm Thursdays and Fridays. A special Penodontal Clinic OVERSEAS JOBS--Summer/year round. is also held on Wednesdays from 2 to 5 Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc. pm for persons who are having periodon­All fields, $500-$1,200 monthly.tal problems which may include bleeding Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free info-· gums, mobile teeth, and diseased tissue. Write: IJC, Box 52-14, Corona Del Mar,Please contact the Dental Hygiene Clinic CA 92625.for an appointment. Need ride to Wash. DC, Conn, Philadel­phia or New York area. Will share exp. and help drive. Marilyn 7936.Lost&Found Used bike in good condition. Will pay fair LOST--Set of keys. Call Kevin Manion price. Jeff, 1386. 7471. I need a ride to anywhere near Pough­LOST-Please return LSAT book you keepsie, NY or Danbury, CN for Oct. borrowed In the library to 310 Lyons or break. Will share driving and expenses.call 7936. Please call 3501. Football equipment taken from Varsity Need ride to Springfield, Mass. for Oct. locker room--please keep equipment but break. Please call Alicia (SMC) 4812. return mouthpieces--no questions asked. Call Nick-1694. Need ride to Detroit area for 2on Friday Oct. 12. Will share driving and expenses.LOST: Set of keys on "Destin" keychain. Call 1277 or 6354. If found, please call Mike at 3265. Help, desperately need ride to O'Hare or 'lost; Jacket (navy boxing) with name vicinity. Friday, October 19th--must inside at Senior Bar on Thurs. PM, Oct 4. make 3:15 flight--matter of life or death! Call Rocky at 232-0736. SMC Gail 4629. LOST: A large plastic key chain at SMC Need ride to Albany, NY after USC. Call with the name Pam on it. If found please Kathy 6954. call 283-7831 . Need ride to North New Jersey or vicinityFor rent: Campus View apt. for rent with for break. Can leave at noon Friday. Will 3 male students. $100/month. All share $$. Brian 3596. utilities Included. Call Ken 1758. Desperately need ride to NYC, NJ, CT area for break. Please call (SMC) 5137.For Rent Need Riders to Champaign, Uof Ill. this weekend. Call Martha. 4-1-4302.Room with kitchen privileges $75-$100. Call Mrs. Bakuse 232-3477 Lincolnway Landscaping work. Need someone withWest and Harrison. own transportation and '10-12 hours available this week for $4.00/hr. CallTwo bdrm house for rent with first yr. 272-8857.grad student. 4 blocks from campus at 1118 Corby. $90/mo plus V2 utilities. Call I LOVE NOTfi'E DAME, and would rather287-4867. not spend winter in JERSEY. Need ride back to campus after break. I'll share gas and tolls. Mary 6959.Wanted Need ride to Twin Cities after USC game. If you have a bright, enthusiastic voice, Will share driving and expenses. Tom and love to talk, we have a job for you. 1247. Dress as you like. Day or eve. shifts part-time. Delivery help also needed. Desperately need 1 American Airlines V2 Apply in person weekdays 9-2 pm 1633 price coupon. Will pay any reasonable Lincolnway S.B. Suite D. (Wooden Indian price or trade student USC ticket as part off plaza next to Holly's Landing.) of deal. Call Tom 8407. Need ride to Tennessee game Nov. 9. I'm homesick for the Land of 10,11011 Will share expenses. Call Mary Ann Lakasl Need ride to MINNESOTA for 4-1-4347. Oct. break. Will share expenses and driving. Call Zelda Ray at 8135. WANTED--28 USC tix. Call (213) 384-1951 and leave your number. I'm paying the price you'll like. Will be in For Sale.town Sun. nite/Mon morn on 10/14 or 10/15. Quality Inn. Don Kramer. For Sale: '64 Falcon. Good runningHelp. Need one or two rides to St. condition. Michael 288-2095. Bonaventure for October break. Call Jean at 8075. 1969 Nova--low miles, 3-speed, In excel· lent condition. Call Jim 234-2862. Leave 'Need ride to Madison WI and back Oct. name and number. 12 weekend. Irene 4262.  JOIN THE KENNEDY BANDWAGON order your "I'm Ready for Teddy" t-shirt, 50/50 heather blue, sizes (S-M-L­XL), $5, includes mailing, cashiers check or cash only; Wild West Company, 1400 North Rouse, Bozeman, MT 59715. F Sale or Trade: The remainder of a student football package, Section 31, including USC game. All serious offers will be heard, or better yet will trade for 2 USC GA. Call 8661 from noon-1 ask for Kevin. For Sale: 2 USC GA's. ~. call Terry 1756. Get your Irish f. fi(USC Weekend. For info call (SMC) _1,37. Sansui BO~ drs receiver 85 watts rms perchannel. Exc cond. $300.00. Call Bobby 233-3380 titer 3:00 pm. Tickets USC. Yes, beiiBVBit or not, I need 2 GA USC tlx. However, I have lots of money for them. Call Dave ar8782. 1need 1,3 or 4 Clemson tickets, call Dave at 8782 or BUlat 11444. Wanted: two GA tix for USC. Will pay $100.00 for goods seats. (312)-823-1158 mornings. Need several GA tickets for Clemson, Tenn games. Call1771. You name the price, I'II pay if right. Need MEGA USC tix, GA or student·· PLEEEEASE! Brother, boss, Mom, Dad, kids all coming!!! Help Marilyn 7936. 1will play disco music out my windows until I get 2 USC GA's. Save us all the agony! John 1209. WANTED-­28 USC tlx. Call (213) 384-1951 Need 2 GA tlx for So. Carolina and 3 GA or Student tix for Navy game. Please call Rene (SMC) 4006. Wanted: 6 tickets each, S. Cal. and Georgia Tech. Call Steve Hamilton (712) 732-2842 days or (712) 732-5229 nights. Need USC tickets, will pay $90 or more a pair. 1756. Please call 288-7914 or 259-0286 If you have any extra tickets to the ND USC game on 10/20/79. ·Need USC Student tickets, paying $20 each. Call Larry 1756. Need 2 GA tickets for USC. Will pay anything. Call Dan at 1621. Need 2 GA tickets to any home games, will pay good price. Call 284-4360. I will pay richly for 2or 3GA tickets to the S. Carolina game. Call Scott at B686. Need 2 GA Navy tlx for 2 Minnesotans. Call Mitch 4376 (SMC). Will pay top dollar for two USC GA tickets--Call Larry 1049. Need So. Cal. tix. Will pay top dollar. Call Joe after 10. 233-0024. Need GA tickets for S. Cal game. Will pay big bucks. can Jane 283-8012. Need 4 S. Carolina GA tickets for family-help!! Call Bill 3454 or Mike 289-6543. Help! I'm frantic, need 8tickets for S. Cal game. Please call Katie at 7911. Needed-two student tickets to USC. Call Rob 2106. Youthful Mom Is coming for USC!! Desperately need Student or GA tic. Will pay MEGA$$$. Call Mary 6798. SOS Emergency need 2to 5S. Cat tickets. Good money! Call Joan 1280. Grandparents last pilgrimage to the dome. Need Southern Cal tickets badly. Call Kevin 3528.  I need football tickets to any home game Hey MJ--Where were you when Friday this week if possible. My 4 kids have night when they turned off the lights??'? never been to a game. Will pay any SUN DEF rumor???? price. Call 232-8454, ask for Donna. Babe, Need 2 GA tickets for S. Carolina. Bill Thanks for the fantastic weekend. I 287-4823. enjoyed being with you so much. Always remember, I love you near or far. Will pay $1110.110 or mora for 2 USC GA. J. Call Jeff ffi-4692. Michael, Desperately need 4 GA and 3 student tix Can't wait one week more. I love you. to USC. Money no object!! Call Eric. Bernie 1384. P.S. My back itches. Need 2 Navy GA tickets, call Scott 1963. Campus Kennedy '80 meeting. 7 pm Thursday. Little Theatre, LaFortune. Will trade American Airlines half-price For Info Call Paul Lewis. 8451. coupon and or cash tor one USC GA call Don 8762. LeMans Girls, Get aclue about achampagne breakfast. WANTED: 2 GA or student tickets for 3rd floor Dillon USC. Call 4+4164. To THE CLUB, WANTED: 2 or 4 GA tickets to S. You still know how to give the best Carolina, Call (SMC) 4166. parties ever. One down...how many left to go??? Need 2 GA tickets to Navy game, call Pete 289-9351. Happy Birthday to the B-p Butt!! (that's you Brenda! ! ) I WANTTO MAKE IT WITH YOU!!!! A deal; will trade Student USC ticket Monotheistic DOCTRINE of Reincarna­and/or$$ for USC GA. Also need GA's tion in the Torah, the Prophets and thefor any home game. Call 4·1-4801 . Gospels. Write: The Truth of Islam, P.O. Box 4494, South Bend, IN 46624.Will sell USC Student tlx. Taking best offer. Call Mary Ann. 4-1-4347. WANTED: 1 NUB ARKIE and 1 Hockey star--turned throaty Business major,$$Help! Desperately need GA tix for two needed as Security for upcoming FTesc nuns. Either s. Carolina, Navy, or McCandless raid and as escorts toClemson. Call Ann 277-4976. "Dinner Party". Details "laid out" at . Mom's Gravesite.WANTED: 3or 4 GA tickets to any home football game. Will pay good money. Give Vlkas a Break! II Ha trias.41-5195. Rup Need 1,2, or 3 GA or St tix to USC. Roland (of K)Please call Dan or John at 3322. Your words have mor experience than your actions.Need 8tlx for So. Carolina. Call Mark or Anon-SMC chickMike, 289-6543. HAPPY BIRTHDAY BILL FLYNN!!Will pay $60 for two adjacent GA USC Collect kisses from the girls In BP.tickets. Call Mark 1478. . Desperatelly need 5GA tbota::Tenn. call" .MEL IS s\ftCrlii-­John at 3656. Cathy R.,Going home for October break? Sell your Congratulations on your hat trick. KeepUSC tix to 2SMC ladies. We need 2 GA up the good work. tix and 2Student tis. Willing to pay your Your number one fan price. Call 4349 (SMC) Cathy or Leslie. Attention History Majors:Not coming back for Oct. 27 game at the You are entitled to be members of the N D end of break? Sell me your ticket!! I Historical Society. If you wish to continue need one GA and as many student tlx as receiving our newsletter, please pay your you can spare. Will pay$$$!! Call Megan duas [$2.110] to Mrs. Box at History4153 or 4161 at SMC. Office. Floyd-Happy seven. May there always be redPersonals dragons when we need them. Love, The Avenger· Joe Miller, You didn 'I keep your promise Friday The man from Bronxville, Tim Griffin hasnioht. Do you even remember making a 20th birthday this coming Saturday.it'f? Start sending those cards!! Dear J.J. I just wanted to wish a very happy 20th Ted, Schuble, PJ, amfJeff, birthday to the prettiest South Carolinian Thanks so much for making my b-day so Southern Belle here on campus. special. You guys are "reasonably" Love, Anne super. Love,(another Southern Belle) Donna INTERVIEWING THIS SEMESTER?? Gus,SMC SENIORS--REMEMBER YOU Is there life, Is there life?MUST COMPLETE A CREDENTIALS Is there life after death?FILE THROUGH SENIOR PLACEMENT ORIENTATION TO INTERVIEW WITH Joe,COMPANIES AND GRADUATE I do love you,shtyll.SCHOOLS.Sesslons scheduled through Kim Oct. 31--sign up at the Counseling and Career Development Center. Interview­ing at ND?? You must register with their Tim rlood and John Reynolds, placement office, too. Keep your eyes We miss your bodies around campus!! and ears open for other workshops which What's new with the world travillers??? will help you get your first job!! Write us sometime, heh?? Love and kisses, Rita Hassert-Crasher and Blitzed Are you going to continue trucking and nude dancing since you're 21? Saturday man and UCLA man. Rita Hassert and Dan Shannon: Happy Birthday. You're real dudes. Rico, Jason, MA, Mary Le Dear Bill, (alias Womanizer) Happy 20th birthday! ! We'II be over for the party-we'll bring the cake! Love, Trisha, Helen, Theresa, Mary Lynn, and Aggie  

~~-~-------~­

Monday, October 8, 1979 -page 12 
Duerson, Ferguson pace win over Georgia Tech 
by Mark Perry Sports Editor 
For freshman Dave Duerson, playing in only his second game as Notre Dame's starting cornerback, Saturday's contest against Georgia Tech was an unusual experience. 
But for Irish Halfback Vagas Ferguson it was business as usual. 
Duerson, who set up two touchdowns on defense, and Ferguson, who carried a record 39 umes for 177 yards, were the two key figures in Notre Dame's 21-13 victory over the Yellow Jackets before another capacity crowd at Notre Dame Stadium. Not all the crowd stayed for the finish, however, 

Vagas Ferguson, [32], who gained 177 yard~ on a Notre Dam~ recr::rd 39 can-ies, prepares to as a continuous rain dampened attack the Georgia Tech defense once agazn. [photo by Mtke Btgley] spirits in the second half. 
=================================================== 
Lovejoy's goal defeats Marquette 
by Gary Grassey Sports Writer 
Junior forward Kevin Lovejoy broke a scoreless tie with a goal 
12:42 into the second half, and Notre Dame's soccer team held on to edge Marquette Univer­sity 1-0 Frida~ nig~t ~n Cartier Field. The Insh wm Improved their record to 7-6-1, while the Warriors fell to 4-2. 
Coach Rich Hunter was satisfi­ed with the outcome, but con­tinued to worry about Notre Dame's pattern of play. "We're still putting ourselves in a hole by not taking adv~~­tage of dangerous opportumu­es," he remarked. "Our trouble has been that those one or two big chances we get ­other teams have. 
''I'm pretty pleased, though. They were a good, skilled, aggressive team." Hunter added, "It's a shame we can't play this way against other teams.'' 
Besides the troubles the Irish have created for themselves, Marquette's squad managed to contribute a few of their own. The Warrior defenders physi­cally pounded Notre Dame all night long. Of the 44 fouls called during the match, 3C were credited to Marquette. Jim Sabitus, Tim Nauman and -Mike Ma1 each had to leave the field with injuries sustained 
from flying legs and elbows at 
one time or another. 
''Because of the Notre Dame­
Marquette rivalry, the game 
was {'layed at a fever pitch," 
Warnor coach Joe Born said. 
"It was a very physical game." 
Most of the Notre Dame 
players, however, were not too 
pleased with the abuse they 
received. ''They were getting 
frustrated," noted Mike Mai. 
''When you'd go to dribble by 
them, they started going for the 
legs to trip you. That's not 
soccer.'' 
Born, who received a yellow warning card for his antics on the bench, contended, "In twenty years of coaching, I've never seen such bad officia­ting." 
Both teams got off to a slow start in the first half. Defense dominated the action. Notre Dame goalie John Milligan, who recorded his second shut­out in three outings, was tested on only two occasions but remained equal to the task. 
The Warriors' Hayden Knight used his great speed on a break to work a pass to John Dueker in the Irish penalry area tor a shot on goal that Mtlligan handled teo minutes into the game. Twelve minutes later, Marquette's Dave Hodgson blew past the Notre Dam~ defense and had Milligan at his mercy, but the .Irish keeper 
Sports Briefs._ _____, 
SAint Mary 's beats Grace 
Saint Mary's volleyball team improved its season record to 
2-4 by defeating Grace College last Thursday. In the 
best-of-five match series the Belles took all five games to win 
15-5, 13-15, 15-6, 9-15, and 15-12. 
Coach Erin Murphy complir:nented the team's play and specifi~ally the efforts. of Terri Walters, Amy Morris, Pat Zanozzr and Amy'Tern. 
The team travels tomorrow to meet Tri-State and Manchester College at Manchest~r. 
Spurs may move to Dallas 
SAN ANTONIO Texas (AP)-San Antonio Spurs President 
Angelo Drossos _pl~ns to ask th.~ Na_ti<;>I?al,, Basket~all Association commissioner about the possibility of movmg the NBA franchise back to Dallas in time for next season~ the San Antonio Express-News reported Sunday. 
"Look, I love San Antonio. This is my home, w~ere I was born, and where I hope to spend the rest of my life. But I owe an obligation to a lot of people who have invested millions of dollars in this basketball team here,'' Drossos told the newspaper in a copyright story. 
denied the opportunity. 
"The difference in the game," according to Born, ''was that we had our opportunities in the first half and didn't capitalize." 
Hunter's attackers worked the ball into the Warrior goal area on numerous occasions, but could only manage shots in a crowd or too far out to do any harm. 
Notre Dame's offense looked much sharper after intermis­sion. Bill Murphy and Paul Devereux came off the Irish bench to spark a second half upsurge. "Murphy played an outstanding game," Hunter ~ commented.."Paul did a job, too-he hadn't been playing all that well before tonight.'' 
It was Devereux who took a crossing pass from Mai and fed Lovejoy, who had only the Marquette keeper to beat, for the game's winning goal. 
[continued on page 10.] 
Duerson's first big play came 
early in the first quarter, as he 
stepped in front of a Mike 
Kelley pass intended for tail­
back Ronny Cone and returned 
it all the way to the Tech 8. 
"I should have had six 
points,'' admitted Duerson, 
who was tackled by Kelley, 
''but I was just happy I had the 
ball." 
Ferguson solved that problem 
three plays later, as he drove 
over left end for his first 
touchdown of the day. 
Tech struck back quickly after 
Chuck Male booted the kickoff 
out of the end zone. Kelley 
dropped back to pass, but 
fumbled as he received the 
snap from center. The Tech 
quarterback alertly grabbed the 
ball on the first hop and tossed 
a quick pass to flanker Leon 
Chadwick, who sped the rest of 
the way for the rying touch­
down. 
''When the Notre Dame sec­
ondary saw the fumble, they came up," Chadwick said, ·"and that's how I beat my man. 
When I got halfway down the 
field I looked over my shoulder 
and the ball was in the air." 
Later in the first quarter Duerson came up with his second big play of the game. Defensive tackle Scott Zettek jarred the ball loose from Cone on a sweep, and Duerson came up to fall on the ball just before it went out of bounds at the Tech 28. 
"I was·1 · t sure ifi was going to 
be abk ,, keep the ball in play considering the angle I had to att..tck it," Duerson said. "I couldn't have been more than a 
half yard in bounds.'' 
Three carries by Ferguson put the ball at the four-yard line, and Ty Barber spun off left tackle to give the Irish a lead they would never relinquish. 
After two long Tech drives produced Johnny Smith field goals, Notre Dame began to rely on Ferguson to protect their 14-13 lead. The senior halfback's 39 carries set a Notre Dame record, eclipsing the mark set by Wayne Bullock, who had 36 carries against Michigan State in 1974. 
''There were times when I wanted to rest,'' Ferguson con­fessed, "but if I don't see anyone coming in for me, I'm not coming out." 
The Irish did get a scare late in the third quarter, as Duerson fumbled a punt by Ted Peeples, and Wally Cawthon recovered for Tech at the Notre Dame 27. But a stout Irish defense and a hold.ing penalty kept Tech from sconng. 
"I made the mistake of not drying off my arms,'' Duerson said. "They were really wet and I didn't have time to get a towel. I still have a lot to learn." 
A disputed play early in the fourth quarter helped Notre Dame get an insurance score. Kelley attempted a pass to Chadwick, who couldn't grab the ball. Linebacker Bob 
[continued on page 8] 

Cotnputers help Irish athletics 
by Michael Olenzk Sports Writer 

In this third and final part of our series of articles dealing with the use of computers in sports, we will examine the computer's role in the running ofthe athletic department here at Notre Dame. 
Just recently computer tech­nology has introduced itself as an important factor in an effi­ciently run athletic l?rogram. Notre Dame's athletic depart­ment makes good use of the University's computer, using it for a more equitable system of alumni ticket distribution, for the compilation of each sport's statistics, and for predicting the probability of certain plays by an opposing football team. 
The ticket office at.the A.C.C. probably best utilizes compu­ters in its attempt to distribute tickets to contributing alumni in an organized fashion. First, the computer lists all contributing alumni and their respective addresses in order to prepare a mailing list for ticket applica­tions sent out during the sum­mer. Returned applications are then placed in a lottery, and are then chosen randomh b the computer. The computer also makes note of those who did receive tickets and those who did not to insure that some alumni do not receive tickets to more than one home game when others have been denied tickets twice. 
Mike Busick, ticket manager at the ACC, said that the "primary use of the computer is to organize the alumni mailing list for efficient ticket distribu­tion." When asked if the com­puter would take on a more expanded role in the ticket office, Busick added, "We intend to eventually distribute student tickets through the computer in the same manner as the alumni tickets." 
The work of computers is highly appreciated in the spo~ts information office, where statis­tics for all sports are sorted and compiled for press releases and game programs. As can be Imagined, the process of sort­ing out statistics by_ hand ~as tedious work, and 1t requtred much more manpower 3?d working hours to accomplish the same task that the computer does in just minutes. This ~s especially imJ?ortant at a um­versit of national prominence 
such as Notre Dame, basically 
because of the rising demand 
for sports information from the 
media throughout the country. 
Notre Dame's football team makes use of the computer to help prepare itself for upcom­ing games by compiling almost every possible statistic avail­able on the opposing team's players, plays, and previous games. The coaching staff goes so far as to compute the percent possibility of a team running a certain play in different circum­stances. This insures that the team is aware of what plays are more likely to occur, and what tendencies the opposing offen­sive and defensive teams have in a variety of situations. This type of preparation makes old­fashioned guess work fairly obsolete while giving the coaches a good base on which to make their decisions. 
There is no doubt that the computer is already a most valuable asset to Notre Dame's athletic department, but its role is ever increasing. With the dawn of new technological in­novations will come even more uses of computers to assist the 
[continued on page 8] 


