Will Goose's survive? -page 10
' ' ' 


VOL. XIII, NO. 107 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, MARCH 29, 1979 
Radiation escapes from power plant 
HARRISBURG, Pa. (Ap)-An atcident at the Three Mile Island nuclear power plant sent radiation beaming through the plant's 4-foot-thick walls and was detected as far as a mile from the plant, the government said yesterday. 
Before the announcement from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in Washington, plant offkials hqd said only a small amount of radioactive steam escaped when a valve bkw out on a water pump that cools a reactor. 
But Joe Fouchard, an NRC spokesman. said radiation from the steam alone would not be strong enough to penetrate the steel-lined power plant walls. 
The only likely source of the radiation being detected appears to be some portion of the reactor's nuclear fuel. 
Fouchard said control rods have been inserted into the nuclear core to stop the nuclear reaction, but he said it wasn't known whether some part of the fuel might have melted, evapo­rated or blown out of the core before emergency measures were taken. 
Plant officials said some workers may have been conta­minated, but insisted no signifi­cant radiation leaked outside the facility. 
1 'I'm sure some of them got exposure, but positively none were over-exposed,'' Jack Her­bein, vict'-president for genera­tion at Metropolitan Edison, one of the consortium of utili­ties that runs the facility, said before the NRC announcement. 
Plant spokesman William Gross said I'a handful'' of workers were contaminated. The planr employs 500 persons, and Gross said 2 5 technicians were examining the workers with _geiger counters. 
Officials had said earlier that readings taken from the atmos­phere outside the plant after the accident showed less radia­tion than a person would absorb 
from a chest X-ray.  
) oe Fouchard,  a  spokesman  
for  the  Nuclear  Regulatory  
Commission,  said  low  level  

radiation was measured up to ~ mile outside the boundanes of 
[continued on page 11] 
6 5 IDs claimed 

This inspiring view ofSacred Heart Church wzll undoubtedly stimulate your creative mind. 
For 1979-1980 




Hatnel natnes SU cotntnissioners 
by K. Connelly Senior Copy Editor 
Student Union Director ap­pointee Tom Hamel has re­leased the list of Student Union Commissioners for 1979-1980. Hamel and the commissioners will take office on April 1. 
The position of Associate Dir­ector will be filled by J. oanne Dowd, a junior from Wdliams­ville, New York. Rick Pin­kowski, a junior from Amherst, New York will be Student Union Comptroller. 

Sophomore Dave Ellison from Aurora, Ohio has been a.r­pointed Cultural Arts Commis­sioner, Sophomore Tim Cough­lin of Palos Heights, Illinois was named Social Commissioner and the Academic Commis­sioner spot will be filled by Nancy Russell, a junior from Wilton Manors Florida. 
Curt Hench, a junior from Defiance, Ohio was named Services Commissioner. The Concert Commissioner will be Mike Kelley, a freshman from Litchfield, Illinois, and Movie Commissioner will be Anne Villeneuve, a sophomore from 
Security issues fines 
by Paul Hurley 

Notre Dame Security is pre­sently in possession of 65 pieces of identification left unclaimed by students at campus entrance gates. 
The pieces of identification, 90 percent of which are driver's licenses, were confiscated by Security after students left their cars on cam~ms in excess of their alloted ume. 
The issuin of citations is a security policy begun this year. Wall said that the new policy is aimed at reducin~ the number ofon-campus veh1cle violations. The amount of the fine accom­panying the citation increases with the number of violations committed. 

Each of the owners of the confiscated driver's licenses has received a citation accom­panied by a fine ranging in amount from one to ten dollars. 
[continued on page 3] 
Los Angeles, California. sions Comptroller appoint­
Mike Day, a junior from ments. Comptrollers for 1979­Grosse Point, Michigan will 1980 will be: Chris Carlsen, serve as Ticket Office Manager; Academic Commission; Ann Kevin Conroy, a freshman from Peters, Concerts Commission; Urbandale, Iowa will head the Marr Margaret Bleyer, Cul­Calendar Office and George tura Arts Commission; Sandy Rooney, a junior from Basking Rogaski, Services Commission; lRidge New Jersey was named Bob Gerth, Social Commission; Campus Press Productions Ma­a~d .Hank Baaij, Movie Com­nager. m1ss1on. 
The position of Executive Staff All of the Comptrollers areCoordinator will be filled by juniors except Gerth who is aDennis Callahan, a sophomore sophomore.
from Tampa, Florida. 
In another release, Rick Pin­Dianne DeBoer, a sophomore, kowski, Student Union Com.r­will serve as Campus Press troller announced the Comm1s-Business Manager. 

Callaghan 's government loses vote 
LONDON (AP) --Prime Mini­
ster)ames Callaghan's minor­
ity Labor Government lost a 
vote of confidence yesterday 
night in the House of Commons 
by a single ballot, forcing 
national elections that could 
bring Britain its first chief of 
government. 
The vote has on a motion of 
censure put before the Com­
mons by Mrs. Margaret 
Thatcher, 53-year-old leader of 
the opposition Conservative 
Party, her motion was approved 
by a margin of 311-310. 
In debate before the vote Mrs. Thatcher, who could become Britain's next prime minister, said, .,.'The government has failed the nation, lost credibility and it is time for it to go.'' 
''Britain is now a nation on the sidelines. Rarely in the post­war period can our standing in the world have been lower or our defenses weaker.'' 
Callaghan, 67, now must re­sign and call a general election. Labor has been in power since 1974. 
Callaghan's government has been beset in recent months by widespread strikes that have crippled the economy. 
It was the second time this century a government has fal­len on a motion of censure. The last was in 1924 when Ramsay MacDonald was ousted. 
The vote indicated seven abstentions from the 635 mem­bers of the House of Commons. 
The breakdown was 311 for the motion of censure, 310 against, with three seats vacant through death or resignation, four non-voting officers of the House and seven abstentions. 

Mcinerny urges expansion of 





Medieval studies to undergraduates 
by Tom Hay 
Medieval Studies is a growing under~raduate discipline at many colleges and umversities across the nation, but the program at Notre Dame has included only graduate students in its 33 year history. Prof. Ralph Mcinerny, director of Notre Dame's Medieval Institute, wants to change that policy. 
"What I'm interested in doing is making the imP-act felt on the college level," Mcinerny said. 1 Our collegiate sequence right now exists 
mainly on paper." 
An undergraduate program of Medieval Stu­dies was formulated in 1977, but has yet to be :mplemented. Mcinerny believes that the . iggest problem rests with publicity. "It will 
t. ke a while for people to see lt as a possibility,'' he said. ''The only way ofrecruiting right now is through courses in other departments, but word-of-mouth advertising is what we really need." 
Medieval Civilization, the name of the under­graduate sequence, is the equivalent of a major, but may be ~ore attractive as pa~ of a .dou~le major, accordmg to Mcinerny. Nme Umvers1ty departments will participate in the program. 
Some area universities offering undergradu­ate majors in Medieval studies include Western Michi ari Universit , Ball State Universi , Indiana Universiry and J-lurdue. 
Medieval Stud1es at Notre Dame places its emphasis on intellectual history as opposed to pohtical, economic, or cultural history. This mvolves examination of institutions, theology, 

philosophy,  literature,  and  other  facets  of  
medievalmtellectuallife.  
"We want  to  understand  a  time,  like  the  

Middle Ages," said Mcinerny. "Not just what people were doing, but what they were thinking about, and the questions they were asking." 
Much of the work involves trying to re-evalu­ate what was said historically and supporting it with evidence if possible. "We look at what they're saying, why, and on what basis." 

. Mcinerny say. 
The studies focus on basic human questions. According to Mcinerny, ' 1 Medieval Studies opens up ways. of understanding what it is to be a human being. Some people back then were talking about things that we're still thinking about now. Some of the similarities over time can knock you out.'' 
The Medieval Institute at Notre Dame, established in 1946, is essentially involved with research on the graduate level. Located on the seventh floor of the Memorial Library, the Institute's library contai~s about 40,000 volumes and 2,400 reels of m1c~ofilm.' among other 
[contznued on page 4] 


News in brief 
Doctors alter questioning procedures for Garwood 
GRE~T LAKES, Illinois (AP) --Doctors at Great Lakes Naval Hospual have rut back on t~eir. q~estioning of Ma~ine PFC. Robert Garwood because hts c1v1han.attorney beheves any answers could b<; used against him in a possible court-martial. Manne Lt. Col. Art Brill, spokesman for the Defense Department, said yesterday that the usual processing for a returning POW will be altered in Garwood's case "so as not to include any historical background ~terviews ... because of the legal entanglements here." 
Health officials investigate possible herbicide poisoning 
TOPEKA, Kansas (AP) -· The state Department of Health and Environment is investigating a poss1ble like between a herbicide and an above-average number of birth defects in the tiny community of Rolla. State health officials, however say there is no direct evidence to link the birth defects wid~ the agricultural herbicide. Five of 17 babies born since 1975 in the community were reported to have severe congenital birth defects,but one of them was determined to have a birth defect that was hereditary. The national average for birth defects is between 1 and 2 percent. Rolla's is almost 25 percent. 
Pentagon proposes cutting 

20, 000 military jobs 
WASHINGTON (AP) --The Pentagon is/roposing a new round of military base closings aime at eliminating thousands of military and civilian jobs and saving several hundred million dollars, congressional sources said yester­day. Altho!J_gh the extent of the cutbacks was not clear, Pentagon officials said earlier this year they were drafting proposals that could eliminate as many as 20,000 military and civilian jobs for annual savin_gs of up to $300 million. Only a partial hst of the closings and other Pentagon moves could be obtained from various sources who inststed on remaining anonymous. The sources said the proposals include plans aimed at streamlining supply operations and shifting some activities performed by defense workers to civilian contrac­tors. 

Weather 
Showers and thunderstorms likely and windy today. Highs in the mid and upper 60s. Showers, thunderstorms and windy tonight and tomorrow. Lows in the low and mid 50s. Highs Friday in the low and mid 60s. 


CamR======us== 
12:15 pm--MASS with griff, IN LAFORTIJNE BALLROOM 
5 rm--FRENCH DINNER, AT THE SNACK BAR AT SMC, al french speaking students and professors invited 
7 pm--EVENING PRAYER, LADY CHAPEL IN SACRED HEART CHURCH 
7 pm--LENTEN MASS, STANFORD HALL 
7, 11 pm--"something beautiful for god," about the work of mother theresa of calcutta, AT THE K OF C 
7,9,11 pm--FILM, "coma," ENGR. AUD., $1 
7:30pm--upward bound program, speaker rozelle boyd, IN THE UB. AUD. 
7:30 pm--AMERICAN SCENE, "socratic education," by prof. James redfield, CAR..~OLL HALL SMC 
7:30pm--LECTURE, "fellini's road.: La strada as journey," by prof. donald costello, LIBRARY LOUNGE 
8 pm--DUO FACULTY RECITAL, pianists ruth fischer and jeffrey jacobs performing, IN THE LITTLE THEATRE 
8 pro--CONFERENCE, "the idea of christendom," by dr. 
j.m. cameron, C.C.E. AUD. 
8:15pm--CONCERT, nd concert band, AT THE A.C.C. 
senior arts festival 
3 pm--READINGS IN POETRY AND PROSE, RARE BOOK ROOM 
8 pm--THE EXHIBIT: four short plays by mark amenta and two plays by joe carey, THE NAZZ 
10:30 pm--MUSIC AT THE NAZZ, john gimino, brian mchale, and mike kammerdiener 

WASHINGTON (AP) --Presi­dent Anwar Sadat of Egypt took the offensive against Arab cri­tics yesterday, predicting 1979 will see changes in the leader­ship of SOJile countries which oppose his peace intiative. 
Sadat singled out Syria as a hard-line Arab regime which could face internal difficulties. He said the government of President Hafez Assad has to 
r 

extricate itself from a "quag­mire" in Lebanon. The domes­tic political situation for Assad will be "not very healthy," he said. 
Sadat also warned Libya a­gainst any military action against Egypt. 
Sadat made his remarks in an interview with a group of columnists. 
As he spoke, foreign ministers of Arab states met in Baghdad to consider reprisals against E~ypt for signmg the treaty wtth Israel. 
Palestine Liberation Organiza­tion leader Yassir Arafat walked out of that meeting, angry because the ministers were unwilling to go along with his call for reprisals against the United States. There were 
Jazz Festival tickets on sale 
Tickets for the Collegiate Jazz Festival are presently on sale at the Notre Dame Student Union, the Saint Mary's ticket office in O'Laughlin Auditor­ium, Pandora's Books, and River City Review outlets. 
An All-Festival pass costs $8.50 or $7.50 for Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's students. Tickets for the evening of Friday, April 6 are $4. 50. Tickets for the afternoon of Saturday, April 7 are $2.50, and $4 for Saturday night. 
Judges for the Festival in­clude Stanley Turrentine, Joe Sample, Philly Joe Jones, 
Richard  Davis,  Buddy  
DeFranco  and  Dan  
Morgenstern.  


E~~.~b!~:.~!~ .. 
Brosh ! • Asst. Night Editor: john Smith, Margaret Kruse 
Layout Staff: Suzy Marshall Editorial Layout: Tina Ter­laak. 
Features Layout: Ann Mo­naghan Sports Layout: Paul Barry Mullaney Typists: Lisa DiValerio, Tom Pipp, Kim Convey, Mardi Nevin EMT: Mary "Gnttllttt" McCauley Day Editor: Maribeth Moran Copy Reader: K. Connelly Ad Layout: Matt DeSalvo Photographer: Bob Gill 
The Observer JUSPS 598 9201 is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S20 per year IS10 per semester! from The Observer. P.O. box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Secor.d class postage paid, Notre Dame, In· diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, March 29, 1979-page 2 
Carter, Sadat unite to take offensive against Arab critics 
reports Libya and Syria had walked out in sympathy. Word of the walkouts had not reached 
Sadat  at  the  time  of  the  
interview.  
Whatever  happens  in  Bag­ 

hdad, Sadat said, "it won't change history." 
Sadat said that "because of past history," the leaders of most Arab states are having trouble adapting to the chan­ging situation he has helped to bring about in the Middle East. 
Sadat said Libya was letting help from Cuban an East German military advisers, as well as weapons from the Soviet Union and there are indications Libya is shifting troops to its border with Egypt. 
''There has been some border activity, but there is no more than that. We shall not tolerate any action against the border. After the lesson we gave him in 1976 (during a brief Egypt­Libya clash), he (Libyan leader Muhammar Qaddafi) will not 

repeat that. If tbf' Soviet Union 
pushes Qaddafi, he will have to 
take the consequences," Sadat 
warned. 

Sadat also challenged the right of any Arab leader, includmg himself, to speak for the Pales­tinians. "No one is entitled to decide the fate of the Pales­tinians except the Palestinians themselves,'' Sadat said. 
He had expressed hope that as the peace process continues, there will be evid<!Oce that Israel is willing to negotiate a fair settlement, and the Pales­tinians will join the talks. 
"For sure, the time has come for the Israelis to live with the facts of the region,'' Sadat said. 
He said that hard-line state­ments by Prime Minister Men­a.:hem Begin of Israel "are not encouraging to anybody to join anything with him ... With Be­gin, whenever we meet, we fight. But we have no alterna­tive. We have to meet to­gether." 

Oon'i B€ a root .. qnas a bat€ anbcometo 


smc]unJoR Class S€mt-roRmat 
on apRil foots Oay 
sunbay apQJlt st at CinnaBaRs-7-t 2 $16per couple includes *Open Bar (all night) 
*year membership * munchies ... dancing ,fun etc. 
ticket sales ... e~.-Thurs-8-9pm -LemansLobbyUri-Sat-dining hall -(dinner hours) Jl 
.oh y€ah, 211.0.'s n€€0€0!\ ...J 

ND-smc Get Yout Act T ogethet smc Social Commission GONG SHOW 
Ftiday, ffiatch 30 9:30 -??? Giusseppi's 
S2.00 beet beet beet can matle 41(4814) 

to sign Debby 41(4833) 
up ac~ 


I,---------------~\ 
I BUlla Sh€0 I 
I ~ II 5:t5massanbsuppm ~~~ 1 thts ~Rtbay




I cct:z:a 
\ anO€v€RYf=R•Oay m• ry II ~-------------T f# 


The Observer Thursday, March 29, 1979-pdge 3 
Delivery next week 
Record sale shipment expected soon 
by Brian McFeeters coordinator for the Student next week. So far, about 50 Union, worked with Clayton records have been turned in as 
Delivery of the final 900 and about 30 volunteers in defective. albums from the Student Union running the sale. "We antici­'Clayton originally pushed for Record Sale is expected early pated about $20,000 worth of the opening of a Student Union next week and the entire opera­business but we still weren't record store on campus. tion should reach completion by prepared for the enormous ''When that fell through I was Friday, April 6, according to amount of work of processing asked to run the record sale," ) im Clayton, organizer of the the orders,'' Clayton said. he explained. sale. ''We had people workin~ all Although no orders were lost 
Over $21,000 was paid by night throughout the sale. ' and students seemed satisfied students for a total of 5,754 The albums were bought with savings on records, Clay­albums during the week long through Fathers & Sons whole­ton said, "I don't think anyone sale which Clayton called -"an sale company in Indianapolis. in the Student Union would be overwhelming amount of Clayton explained that the com­willing to run another one of work.'' pany buys all labels of records these sales in so short a time.'' 
All orders were prepaid but and saved the Student Union ''Maybe if it was spread out there are still about 75 un­i:he trouble of buying from over a whole semester a few claimed albums. "I can't individual record manufac­people could handle the work­understand why these P.eople turers. load,'' he concluded. There are haven't picked them up, ' Clay This Friday is the deadline for presently no definite plans for ton said. He is considering a the return of any damaged another record sale of this rype, deadline of this Friday for records, which wiH be replaced according to Clayton.
Dr. Timothy 0 'Meara relaxes by reading the Notre Dame claiming the albums. Magazine. What else would be read? Curt Hench, executive staff 
I·----------------~ 
ENGINEERING GRADUATES: I I (All Fields) I


PSI declares Indiana nuclear power 
I COMPUTER SCIENCE GRADUATES: Iplant accident possibility remote 1 After the SS, are your plans for I MADISON, Ind. (AP)--A gency procedures worked.'' accident that could happen," 1 Graduate School? Industry? 
I 
nuclear power plant accident The utiliry is the major Vincent said. ''And in design­1 Th~re is an alternate which includes both activities. I similar to one that happened investor in a nuclear generating ing to meet that one particular It ts the Graduate Engineering Student Internshipyesterday in Pennsylvania station now under construction worst accident, we have to I program at the Universiry of Mexico. This program I could happen in Indiana · "but on the Ohio River near design the plant to shut down permits you to work half the time toward an M.S. the chances are remote," a Madison. and protect the public from I degree and work half time at the professionllevel in I spokesman for Public Service "The chances are remote, some lesser accidents.'' I cer_tain local industries, including Sandia Labora-1 Indiana says. but a similar incident could Vincent said emergency tones, at competitive salaries. Selection is based on 
A water pump used to cool occur at Marble Hill," Vincent evacuation procedures and I Qualifications. For additional information, write: I the reactor at the Three Mile said. "But it (a potential other safety procedures still are Graduate Engineering Student Internship Program I 
Island nuclear power plant near accident) has been identified beine worked out by PSI I C/0 Dean of the Engineering CollegeHarrisburg, Pa., broke down and safery systems are part of offictals and other industry I The University of Mexico yesterday, and some radio­the plant's design." representatives. Albuquerque, New Mexico 87131 active steam escaped into the The cooling system is critical atmosphere, authorities said. in a nuclear plant bec:J.Use of 
They said four workers were the intense temperatures at contaminated, but the exposure which nuclear reactions occur. r-------------------------~: 
was not considered serious. If the nuclear tuel should 1 Announcing the First Annual River City Records I· 
PSI spokesman David overheat, it could melt and burn Vincent said response to the its way throu~h the protective accident "demonstrates once enclosure, ulumately releasing again the safety systems in radioactivity to the outside. 
! 'SULTANS OF SPRING' I 
nuclear plants added to protect Scientists generally agree the public.'' that a break in a pipe carrying 
''The incident at the Three cooling water is one of the inost 1 Midnight Madness -$1.00 off and I 
Mile Island plant was a contin­threatening accidents, risking gency that had been planned dispersion of radioactive mater­for," he said. "The backup ials. 1 
April Fool's Wiekend Sale! ·f 
systems worked, there was no ''This is the one thing con­loss of coolant and the emer-sidered to be the worst possible I II This weekend River City Records, with Michian 's largcsJ 1 
I record & tape selection, will have the largest record & I


Two £:1.rkansa;s ReP.s 

I I
tape sale in 1\I ich ian a history !

ca~patgn agatnststn 

LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) -legislate morality. I I The two court jesters of the To insure that sin doesn't 
I ALL ALBUMS, BTRACKS & I
Arkansas House of Representa­win, their resolution recom­tives have introduced a resolu­mended: tion to ''further insure that sin ·That it be a capital offense for does not win." a legislator to commit' adultery 

I CASSETTES $1.00 OFF NO LIMIT I
The measure was sponsored ~hile t~e General Assembly is by Reps. Kent Rubens of West m sesston . Memphis and ) oseph K. ..That lawmakers be prohi­I I '') ody'' Mahony of El Dorado, bited from visiting a motel 
I open 10:0 to midnight Thursday, Friday I
who often refer to themselves room, hotel room, bar or res­as ''Riff and Raff. '' taurant when a member of the I I 
Rubens and Mahony were opposite sex is present, unless 1 & Saturday 10-10 Sunday 1 poking fun at their colleaeues, escorted by parents. who over the years have mtro­.. That "oglers, Jeerers and duced measures that some droolers'' be forced to wear I * WHBH Remote Broadcasts * Free pinball I believed to be attempts to blindfolds. 
I * tonce,rt Ticket Gi,·eawavs * l\)o,·ie Pass .~iveaways I Security I * Poster giveaways * Su bm a~·h inc Sandwich Pri>.es I
' 
' ' 

[continued from page 1] I . * Fret• Poly Liners 1
school year or the students will 

1 * Album gl\:eaways · 
Joe Wall, chief of Notre not be permitted to graduate or Dame Security, speculates that receive final grades. 
I I
these citations and fines have "If they don't pick these (the deterred many students from licenses) up right away," Mr. 1 River City Records I reclaiming their licenses--some Wall said, "it is to the student's I . I
of which have been in Secur­own disadvantage." I 50970 US 31 North 3 miles north of campus 1
ity's possession since late 1978. Students wishing to pick up The fines connected with the confiscated driver's licenses licenses are put on individual should go to the Campus Secur­
I
student accounts, which must ity Office across from the power I 277-4242 be settled by the end of the plant. 



L-------------------------~ 
The Observer Thursday, March 29, 1979-page 4 
MOSCOW (AP) A young Soviet to Soviet president Leonid I. seaman who said he "hated Brezhnev. 
• Brezhnev'' and wanted to go to The ambassador said he be­
S 0Vlet SeaffianAmerica holed up in the U. S. lieved it was unprecedented for Embassy for eight hours yester-American officials to give Sovi­day, then exploded a bomb ets free rein to carry out an 
seeks refuge Strapped to ~iS wa~st when a operation of this kind in the 
' group of Russians tned to force 

U.S. Embassy, but the Rus­
him out, U. S. Ambassador 

sians were invited here "To 
• 
exp1Q d eS Malcolm Toon announced. . handle it as they saw fit.''The man was taken away m 
T oon said the Soviet officials 
an ambulance, badly burned 

entered the drama about 4:30
Qffi lfl but apparently still alive, Toon p.m. and negotiated with the
b b 
reported. 

man for the next six hours;
The ·27-year-old merchant 

trying to persuade him to give
U• S • embassy seaman walked into the em~as­up and leave the embassy 
sy at 2:30 p.m., descnbed 

peacefully.
himself as a dissident and said 

When that failed the Russians 
he ''hated Brezhnev'' referring 


either used force or threatened to use force. Two popping sounds were heard .. at 10:47
BRIAN'S SONG 

7:00, 8:30, !O:OOpm 

Coroner attributes Golden Glover's 
Friday· and Saturday 


death to cerebral hetnorrhage 
KNOXVIllE, Tenn. (AP) -­
March 30 and 31 

The final results of an autopsy on a boxer who dies five days after losing a Golden Gloves
Carroll Hall -SMC 

bout March 15 should be avail­able by the middle of next
sponsored by SMC 

week, the ring physician at the match said yesterday. "We
social commissior. 

found evidence of a cerebral hemorrhage and that in all
admission $1.00 

probability is going to be listed as the cause of death,'' Dr. Robert Whittle said. "We just have to assume it occurred 


during the bout.'' 
Arnaldo Maura, 19, a soldier stationed at Ft. Bragg, N.C., died March 20 in East Tennes­see Baptist Hospital following brain surgery four days earlier following his lightweight ama­teur bout with Johnny Bum­phus, 18, of Nashville. 
Whittle said a microscopic examination of tissue in Maura's brain could disclose an underlying condition such as a weakness in the blood vessels that existed since birth. 
''It takes about 10 days for the brain tissue to be sectioned,'' he said. "We just have to wait on the results. It's not a complete autopsy without them.'' 
The fight was stopped one minute and 10 seconds into the third round after Bumphus knocked Maura to the ropes with a right hook and Maura 
appeared unable to continue. Bumphus, who is now com­
WHY MIKE NOBLE BECAME AN 

peting in the National Golden
R.G.D. & CO. ACCOUNT EXECUTIVE 

Gloves Tournament at Indiana­polis, Ind., has said he thinks
After graduati,ng from The University of Notre Dame, Mike 

the referee should have stopped 
Noble began to search for a business career that would 

the fight earlier.
place no limits on his income or advancement. An R. G. 

''I remember hitting him hard
Dickinson & Co. advertisement like thif one aroused his 

at the end of the second
curiosity. 

round," Bumphus said. "I hurt him with a straight left and I
Now Mik8 is a successful securities account executive in our 

came back with a right hook. I
Des Moines office. 

thought it should have been stopped then.''
Last year his income was good. This year, it was better -a 75% increase. His potential, like his sales "territory", is 
p.m. which Toon said could have been pistol shots. 
That reportedly was when the man pulled the ring on the small gray metal box attached to his body with white strips of cloth. It was a black powder device, Toon said, and burned nearly all the man's clothes off. He was put into an ambulance and taken away by Soviet officials. 
Several hours after the sea­
man entered the embassy, four loud explosions described as. tear gas cannisters being fired were heard outside the embas­sy, the apparent start of an attempt to seize the youth. . 
Soviet officials told U.S. correspondents inside the em-

Quinlans to celebrate birthda.y Mass .for Karen 
MORRIS PLAINS, N.J. (AP) Despite doctor's predictions --A Mass will be celebrated that Karen would die soon after today at the bedside of coma­she was removed from the tose Karen Ann Quinlan to respirator, her condition stabi­mark her 25th birthday. lized and she continues to 
Joseph and Julia Quinlan, breathe on her own. devout Roman Catholics, have 

Karen, whose weight has sta­received birthday cards from bilized at 70 poinds, lies in thearound the country for their fetal position--knees drawn updaughter, who has been in a to her chest and her arms coma four years. 
folded--on a waterbed in herSaturday will mark the third second-floor room at the Morrisanniversary of the New Jersey View Nursing Home here. 
Supreme Court's landmark de­"She's really in God's handsciswn which gave Quinlan per­now in every respect sincemission to order the removal of there's nothing anybody canthe respirator that was thought do,'' her father said in a recentto be keeping his daughter interview.

alive. 



Medieval
' ' ' 

[continued from page lJ  Medieval manuscripts,  as well  
research sources.  as  the  entire  contents  of the  
An  extensive  collection  of  Ambrosiana Library in Milan,  

Italy, have been collected on 
unlimited. He can go as far as ability and hard work can take 

microfilm by Prof. Astrik L. him. 
Gabriel, director emeritus of 
the Institute. Knolwedge of
BobHope says, l 
And there's something else. "In this business," Mike says, 

Latin, French, German and the 
"you can look forward to every day. No two are the same. 

spec~al sk~ll of paleography are 
They're always interesting, often exciting and tremendously 

reqUired 10 order to decipher



"Help k.eep
satisfying." 

the texts. Mcinerny pointed out that 
Mike says, "Besides all of the above at the ~nd of each year, 

Medieval studies was almost
Red Cross 
1 own a piece of the business without any cost to me 

exclusively a Catholic concern 
because I am part of an employees ownership plan." 

until about 25 years ago. The

ready.tt' 

writings ofThomas Aquinas, in 
Right now we are seeking additional people. If you think an 

particular, was stressed. Inter­
investment sales career is right for you, talk to us now. 

est in the field eventually reached beyond the Catholic 
If you qualify, we'll train you for six months on salary, as we 

domain, however. "Over the 
did Mike. 

last 10 to 15 years, Medieval Studies has boomed all over the 
~ To apply, send 

country, and principally in non­Catholic institutions," Mc­
~ resume to Don Renier. 

Inerny said. While the national trend is toward undergraduate study,
R. (;. DJ(;KINSON & CO. 

Notre Dame's collegiate pro-, 
INVESTMENT BANKERS 

gram remains an unfulfilled goal. Says Mcinerny, ''I'm
910 Grand Ave. Des Moines, Iowa 50309 

~oing to keep plugging away at 
it.,, 


bassy compound that ''an ope~­ation" was under way, but did not give details. 
Reporters had been outside the embassy and Soviet officials told them it was necessary to move "for your own security." 
An orange glow lit up the night sky near the embassy's n.orth wing where the umdenufied Soviet had last been reported negotiating with a high-ranking Soviet official and the embassy security chief. 
Informed sources said the Russian told officials he was a sailor who grew up in an orphanage. 
He also claimed he wanted to "set an example for all dissi­dents.'' 
The referee, Fred Parr, said in an interview with the Knoxville News-Sentinel, that he doesn't remember the specifics about the fight but he is certain nothing out of the ordinary occurred in the ring. 
"I heard Johnny Bumphus' account," said Parr, 47, of Rossville, Ga., and a member of the Chattanooga delegation of the southern Gloves tournq. "I can understand that and I don't blame him one bit. But if there's anything I've ever been criticized about in my referee­ing, it's that I've stopped fights too soon.'' 
Parr said there was no effort by Maura's coach, Sgt. Gene Brown of Ft. Bragg, to halt the fight earlier. Brown said he asked Maura, who was wearing protective head gear during the bout, ifhe wanted to quit at the end of the second round. 

"Ifl had thought anything was wrong, I would have stopped it," Brown said. "He was talking with a clear head and said he didn't want to stop. When he got hit in ·the third round, that is when I stopped in to stop it but he was already being counted out." 
Maura, a native of Cuba whose parents live in Miami, Fla., walked of the ring under his own power. He was taken to the hospital when he became ill in the dressing room after the bout. 
The Observer Thursday, March 29, 1979 -page 5 
Stars leave center stage in Hollywood-style trial 

LOS ANGELES (AP) ·· With testimony concluded, Lee Mar­vin and Michelle Triola Marvin stepped off center stage in their Hollywood-style trial yesterday leavmg the next lines to their lawyers and the iudge. 
But the most cmcial scenes in the courtroom drama are still ahead--the closing arguments by attorneys and the judge's verdict in the battle over Mar­vin's millions. 
''I think we've proven our case," said Miss Marvin's at­torney, Marvin Mitchelson. 
"I'm extremely optimistic," said A. David Kagon, represen­ting Marvin. 
"I feel like crying," Miss Marvin said as testimony closed. 
"I'd do it all over again," said Marvin. 
The case already set legal precedent by coming to court at all. At issue is whether Miss Marvin can collect alimony-like benefits after breaking up with Marvin, with whom she had lived. 
Superior Court ) udge Arthur Marshall, who ltstened to 11 weeks of testimony, said he wiU await submission of the attor­neys' legal briefs next Wed­nesday, hear oral summations April 10, then decide if Miss Marvin should get any of the $1. 8 million she seeks. 
The memories they resur­rected of a 15-year-old love affair captured a wide audi­ence. the parade of witnesses, including show business lumi­naries, gave intimate details of a stormy movieland love affair-­the most lurid testimony since no-fault divorce stOJ?ped Holly­wood from throwmg verbal punches in open court. 
This time, the punches were being thrown by an unmarried couple--an Oscar-winning actor and a former cabaret singer whose six-year affair began on the movie set of "Ship of Fools" and ended on the beach at Malibu. 
"I love Lee," Miss Marvin would say. "I cared for Lee." "I never loved her," Marvin 
growled repeatedly. 

She referred to him as "Lee." He called her "the plaintiff," refusing to speak her name. She had legally changed her name near the end of the affair to make the same as his. 
The trial opened in January, after a seven-year battle by Miss Marvin to get her day in court. She sued in 1972, two years after she and Marvin ended the affair. Her case was thrown out of court. 
But in 1976, the California Supreme Court issued a land­mark ruling which acknow­ledged the changing morality of American couples, and said Miss Marvin and other unmar­ried cohabitants had the right to 

Summer Jobs in DETROIT 
Those from the area who are interested in locating a summer ,.ob thru the Alumni C ub. please send a postcard with your Name, Address and Phone (cam­pus and Home), your job Interest and past exper­
ience. 
Paul Grzybowski 806 St. Louis 
South Bend,46617 
sue for property dividusion when they parted or when one partner dted. 
Miss· Marvin, first on the stand, disclosed she had under­gone three abortions. "He didn't want more children," she wept. As a result, she said, "I have scars and I can't bear children." 
She depicted Marvin as an abusive drunk whose alcohol­ism tore apart their love affair. There were tales of rowdy parties, one in which Miss Marvin said the actor dangled a woman out the window of a hi~h-rise hotel. "I almost famted,'' she said. 
Marvin denied it all. He claimed he was a social drinker who never lost control of h~s faculties. He depicted Miss Marvin as an annoyance in his live, a woman who moved in and refused to leave. 


TBE RIGHT SIZE ENGINE 
BIGGER ISN'T NECESSARILY BETTER IN NEW, MORE EFFICIENT GM CARS. 
The lighter the car, the less power it takes to move it. That's the most important thing to know when you're trying to decide what engine to order for your car. 
The power-to-weight theory holds true no matter how you intend to use your car: city, highway or subur­ban driving; with two passen­gers or six; with a small trailer or pulling a heavy boat. 
Since we redesigned al­most all our cars to make them lighter and more effi­cient, the power-to-weight theory enables us to move them with smaller engines that use less gas. You can get good performance from a full-size GM car under most conditions with a six-cylinder or a small eight-cylinder en­gine instead of a larger op­tional V8. Mid-size cars, luxury cars, and redesigned compacts to be introduced this spring follow the same pattern. 
1b help you choose an engine, we designate one as standard for every model. It is an engine that provides enough acceleration to merge safely with traffic when entering a freeway, enough pick-up to cross a street quickly after heeding a stop sign, and in most models, even enough power to haul a trailer weighing up to 1,000 pounds. 

Standard engines cost less than bigger, optional engines and get better gas mileage, especially in city traffic. There is no difference in durability between stan­dard and optional engines. However, to get the most out of any GM engine, follow the maintenance schedule in the GM Owner's Manual. And remember, please, that small engines are as durable as large engines only if you give them the same care. 
1lhere are soBJe reasons for choosing larger, optional engines: if you intend to carry six passengers and lug­gage with any frequency, if you intend to haul a trailer over 1,000 pounds, and if you expect to drive often in hilly terrain. For· people who drive mainly in altitudes over 4,000 feet we offer a special high­altitude package, including a larger engine, to ensure satis­factory performance. 
Finally, your own sense of how a car should "feel" must be the deciding factor. GM dealers have cars that 
you can take for a test drive. Take that test drive. Drive the same model with a stan­dard and an optional engine, if the dealer has "demonstra­tors" with both configura­tions. You're the driver. Decide for yourself. 
We charge more for op­tional engines. Even so, our honest advice is to buy the smallest engine that fits your taste and needs. You'll save money when you buy your car, and in most cases, you'll save money on gas for as long as yQu own it. That's the nice part of energy conservation. 
This advertisement is part of our continuing effort to give cusiome1s useful information about tfutir mrs and tn«:ks and the company that builds them. 
General Motors 
People building transportation to serve people 
\ 
} 

The Observer Thursday, March 29, 1979 -page 6 

. '· .. '·-............... ~-.... _..._..............~ ·-····~..----·-..................____....._,..-. . .. _ .._____,.. .... ----.,_ .. -... ......... --" ..... ~ ...................._. ... __ ~. . . . .. . ..
~ 



GSND-SMC struggles for recognition 
Editor's Note: The following is the third in a series of columns written by a member of the Gay , Students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GSND-SMC). Today's column deals specifi­cally with gay life on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's cam­puses. Tomorrow's article, the last in the series, will address the question of the impact that homosexuality will have on our society in the future. 
In the past two articles, I have dealt with some aspects of gay life in general. Now I wish to turn the focus on the gay struggle here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The issue is certainly in full force here on the campuses. Four gay Notre Dame students appeared on public televiston several weeks ago and shocked the two other­WISe calm campuses. Reverend Shanky, who has been fighting for sexual minorites in the Catholic Church, will be coming to speak at Notre Dame on Apnl 
10. The GSND-SMC is cur­rently involved in an attempt to gain offtcial recognition from Notre Dame. The question is how well the gay issue and gay students can survive the ND­SMC community. 

First of all, much to my surprise, the reaction to the television program, Straight Talk.on channel 34, was very favorable. At first, there was the typical response: nasty phone calls from Notre Dame <>tudents and the threat of the gay students losing important positions on the campus (the four students each had fairly prestigious positions at Notre Dame). But, soon after, the responses from students, faculty, and administrators was very agreeable. 
Besides this favorable reac· tion to the program, the ad· 
>
a: 
::::> 
al 
en 
w 
8 z 
0 
ministrators with whom the group has been meeting, the statf of Student Affairs, have been more than willing to listen to out plea for official recogni· tion. The GSND-SMC has been, in the past, the only organization ever denied offi­cial recognition. Very few sub­stilntial advances have been made for the group before this year. 
The GSND-SMC representa­tives meet with Student Activi­ties director, John Reid, every week. Through Reid and through personal contact, the GSND-SMC has brought the Student Affairs committee to at least a recognition of the prob !ems gays have in the commu· nity and at most the first serious consideration of the group as an official organiza­tion. I personally spoke with Fr. Van Wolvlear, Fr. Greene, and Dean Roemer, and each handled the meetings with concern and true interest in the matter. The main problem was­that these people have never had to turn their attentions toward the topic. 
The Student Affairs com­mittee as a whole informed the ~roup that they consider the tssue well worth their time and effort. They want the group to inform both the admimstrators and the students about being 
gay,  and  about  gay  life  in  
general.  ·  
Official  recognition,  says  

Dean Roemer, does not mean that the University is placing its stamp of approval on the organ­ization in question; therefore the ethical concerns would carry less weight than one would assume. But, he added, official recognition does carry the implication of approval, and that is why, if he had to make the final decision at this point in time, he could no~ pass official 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of 
recognition. 

The Student Affairs com­mittee is the group that has the final decision. This decision can, of course, be'vetoed by Fr. Hesburgh. Hesburgh has denied recognition to the group in the past, giving as a reason the fact that the University is a Catholic institution. The Catho­lic Church does not condemn gay people but does see a gay lifestyle as asainst God's favor. Therefore, 10 the Catholic Church and at Notre Dame, it is all right to be gay but not to live gay. 
Another problem is that a gay lifestyle does not assume homo­sexual sex, but naturally, implies it. Since Notre Dame does not approve of any kind of pre-marital sex, the issue be­comes even more complicated. 
What the GSND-SMC has to hope for, then, is first to make the campuses aware of the issue so that some serious thought can result. Once good thoug-ht is circulating, admini­stration, faculty, and students may begin to readjust their thinking away from stereotypes and archaic codes. Then and only then can the GSND-SMC expect to be officially recog· nized. It will be a long, hard struggle, but well worth it for the hundreds of gay people in the community and for all of us as mature adults. 
Mark Amenta 

Hydrogen bomb lobby 
WA:O,HJNGTON--As soon as it was revealed that a n-porter for Progressive Magazine had discovered how to make a hydrogen bomb, a group of firearm zealots formed the National 
Hydrogen  Bomb  Assn.,  and  they  are  now  
lobbying  against  any  legislation  to  stop  
Americans from owning one.  

"The ConstitutioQ," said the association's spokesman, ''gives everyone the right to own and bear arms. It doesn't spell out what kind of arms. But since anyone can now make a hydrogen bomb the public should be able to buy it to protect themselves." 
"Don't you think it's dangerous to have one in the house, particularly where there are children around?'' 
"The Natic~:.i Hydrogen Bomb Assn. ho{>es to spend a good portion of its dues on educatmg people in the safe handling of this rype of weapon. We are instructing owners to keep the bomb in a locked closet and the fuse separately in a drawer. We also will hold classes in how to fire the bomb. We believe that ifa person knows how to take care of his bomb there is no danger to himself or his family." 
···some reople consider the hydrogen bomb a very letha weapon ~hich could kill somebody.'' 
The spokesman said, "Hydrogen bombs donlt kill people--people kill people. The bomb is for self-protection and it also has a deterrent effect. If somebody knows you have a nuclear weapon in your house, they're going to think twice about breaking in.'' 
"But those who want to ban the bomb for American citizens claim that if you have one locked in the closet, with the fuse in a drawer, you would never be able to assemble it in time to repulse an intruder." 
"That's garbage put out by the antinuclear weapon people. We are only advocating 
Editorial Board 

Ediror-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Fearures Editor ....... Chris Stewart 
Managing Ediwr ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor . . . . . . . Doug Christian Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales Senior Copy Editor ...... K. Connelly 
Thursday, March 29, 1979-page 7 
P. 0. Box Q 
Cheer leading 
quota impractical 
and unfair 
Dear Editor: 
We would like to respond to a letter appearing in the last issue of the Observer before spring break concerning the newly introduced cheerleader selection regulations. We sup­port the letter and fed that the mdividual's complaint is in­deed a legitimate one. As indicated, the new regulation stipulates that a majority of the females selected for the 1980-81 squad must be from Notre Dame (i.e., at least four out of the six). We, roo, question this new policy. 
In our experiences, we have 
'found that St. Mary's students are just as, if not more, highly spirited as Notre Dame females in the support of our athletic teams. This would indicate that they sincerely believe in the concept of the ''ND-SMC com­munity" and that they are indeed members of the ''great· est student body in the nation," well-known for its displays of school spirit. 
If the ties within the ND-SMC community are as strons as most of us would like to be!teve, 

art buchwald 
ownership of hydrogen weapons by law-abiding citizens. If someone commits a crime with one, he should get a stiff jail sentence." 
,·,Another argument against allowin~ .People to own a bomb is that at the moment It 1s very expensive to build one. So what your assocation is backing is a program which would allow the middle and upper classes to acquire a bomb while poor people will be left defenseless with just• handguns.'' 
''That's pure propaganda put out by the bleeding hearts. In a year or two there will be Saturday Night Hydrogen Bomb Specials costing less than a hundred dollars. It's worth that to protect your family." 
"Would your assocation be willing to permit the registration of bombs by their owners?'' 
"Absolutely not. If we ever go to war the Communists will have a list of everybody in this country who owns the bomb. They could disarm us overnight. The strength of this nation is still in a citizens' army, and our members arc pledged to fight to the last man." 
"Do you plan to use the bomb for hunting?" 
"Only for big game. We're nor going to use it on a rabbit or a duck becallse that would be overkill. But it's a perfect weapon for knocking down an elk or a bear.'' f 
"A recent Gallup survey has indicated that 78 percent of the people polled said they were in favor of banning the hydrogen bomb 1n private hands. What is your response to that?" 
"Our recent survey indicates just the op­posite," he replied. "People favor keeping the bomb out of the hands of criminal elements, and believe that if you carry one around in your pocket you should have a license. But it's nobody's damn business what you do with one at home.'' 
(c) 1979, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 

then shouldn't those respon­sible for the cheerleader selec­tions be more co'lcerned with selecting the best girls for the job and less worried about what pan of the ''community'' they are from? And as far as whether or not a girl from St. Mary's is capable of repre­sentmg Notre Dame on the football field and basketball court; isn't it true that all the female cheerleaders came from St. Mary's before Notre Dame went co-ed? 
With all this in mind, it would seem that the new majority quota is impractical as well as unfair. Ifany quota at all has to exist, the female populations of the two schools are close enough that it should be at least an even 3·3 split. We feel that the ~.D-SMC community is a reality and uo. just an idea. To quote the 1976·77 version of DuLac, "St. Mary's has been an integral part of Notre Dame since 185 5." If those respon­sible for initiating the new majority policy have the same beliefs as we do, then in fairness to all the females within the community, we would suggest that they recon­sider the issue at hand. 
MikeBusk Mike LynchJud Weiksnar Mark Sbarra } ohn Mandico 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewis Business Manager .....Steve Odland newspaper published by students of able to all members of the community, News Editor ............ Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan the Umversity of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News Editor .......... Mike Shields Saint Mary's College. It does nor opinions on campus, through letters, is Saint Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ......Bob Rudy necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SportS Editor ........... Mark Perry Controller ........... c1 ohn Tucker 
~--~----------------------------------------­



On Saturday, March 31, The Center order for students to learn how the for Experiential Learning in conjunc­owners of smaller farms sell their tion with Morrissey, Lyons, Walsh, products. An area farm will also be and Flanner Halls, is sponsoring the visited to enable students to view, social and cultural program, • 'Broaden close up, how a farm is operated. The Your Horizons." This program is the issues surrounding migrant labor will second in a series of programs being also be discussed because of the implemented by various residence common practice of many area farms halls to help their residents expand using migrant labor to harvest their their horizons concerning the historical crops. Information will be distributed and present growth of the South Bend on the very lucrative mint industry of area and to ex.Plore the connections the South Bend area. While en route between the Umversity and this devel­to the farm, it will be necessary to pass opment. through many of the very distinct 
At the yresent, The Center for ethnic neighborhoods of South Bend. Experientia Learning, under the On which will be. particularly em­gut dance and support of Fr. Don phasized is the unusual and revitalized McNeil, plays the major role in the Park A venue area. The different planning and execution of these pro­neighborhoods are an important as­~rams. However, it is hoped that each pect of South Bend and the ways that mdividual hall will take the ideas used they are changing are quite interest­in the first two programs and adapt ing. The Park Avenue area will be an them to fit its own residents' needs excellent example. and personalities. The Center for The Center for Experiential Learning Experiential Learning, along with is more than willing to help any of the Student Government and The Institute halls get started with thetr own for Urban Studies, could then serve in programs. The hall governments can an advisory and reference capacity to very easily implement the program help each hall plan its own programs. into their schedules of activities with a 
·This spring's program will focus on minimum of effort. Any questions can the agricultural dimension of the South be directed to the Center for Experien­Bend economy. Places such as tial Learning and Mrs. Mary Ann F 's Market will be visited in Roemer. 
South Bend -The River City 
Mary Uhl 
The development of a city is often Michigan Southern and Northern Indi­determined by a natural feature of the ana connected South Bend with Lake land. The city of South Bend is no Erie. Eventually, with expanding exception, as the city takes its name railroad connections in the 1850's to from its location on the south bend of the East and West, New York and the St. Joseph River. In the steady PhiladelJ?hia replaced New Orleans as growth of the city from a small fur the destmation of South Bend's pro­trading post in 1820 to an industrial ducts. In return from the East, South city with a population of 125,000 today, Bend received manufactured goods. the river 'llso played a large role. Manufacturin~ expanded in South Pierre Navarre who came in 1820, was Bend along wuh the growth of the the first to establish a trading post on railroad. In 1852, the Studebaker the future site of South Bend, than an Company began manufacturing wa­area abounding with deer, wolf, black gons and other vehicles which would bear, fox, mink, otter, wild cat, later become world famous. Another racoon, and muskrat. which attained international status, 
Navarre, representing the American the Oliver Company, was founded in Fur Company, did not remain in the 1855 near the river. This company area. It was Alex Coquillarci, arriving prospered with invention of the chilled in 1823, who became the first perma­plow by its founder James Oliver. nent settler. Coquillard, (whose Unlike the Studebakct Company which nephew later became Notre Dame's · announced its closing in 1964, the first day student in 1842), was also an Oliver Corporation is still in existence agent of the American Fur Company. today. The Singer Company also He and Lanthrop Taylor, who arrived boosted South Bend's economy when four years later, are considered the it opened a plant in 1868 to produce founders of South Bend. cabmets for tts sewing machines. In 
Both Coquillard and Taylor began 1955 however,· the scarcity of local manufactunng and milling since the lumber forced the company to end its river supplied the needed water power operation here. for such endeavors. Utilizing keel The industrial development of South boats and steam boats, the river Bend lured large groups of immigrants · played a crucial role in South Bend's to the area. Many ancestors of the two growth from 1831 until the 1850's sd largest ethnic groups still in South as products from the area such as Bend, the Hungarians and Polish, are gram, pork, flour, hides, furs, and employed at the Oliver Chilled Plow 
whiskey were brought to the river and Works. The Hungarians began arriv­shipped south. ing aroune 1882, with the greatest 
There was heavy traffic on the river influx around 1900. The Polish, who until1851 when the ftrst railroad came circulated their own weekly newspaper to South Bend. A track of the and three church magazines, began 
''A Hoosier Tradition'' 

Molly Mcl.Lzughlin 
Despite all the abuse South Bend the booths share the Market's tradi­receives for its harsh winters, cold tion, some have been there for three bitter winds and dull nightlife, the generations. The Market officially Farmer's Market at the bottom of ope':ls at seven and u~til mid-afternoon Eddy Street is one of South Bend's closmg, the Market ts crowded with a true Hoosier highlights. There among variety of eager and friendly custo­the countless booths of just-picked mers. produce, freshly baked goods and 
Besides the numerous booths ofhomemade handicrafts hums a warm produce and baked goods, otherand friendly atmosphere that is truly midwestern goodies are also for sale:midwestern. This March 31, "Broad­honey, maple syrup, homemade can­en Your Horizons" , a joint hall dies, popcorn, dairy products includ­endeavor sponsored by The Center for ing a large selection of cheeses,Experiential Learning will visit historic freshly dressed poultry, meats, plants, Farmer's Market. 
and handicrafts such as hand madeSouth Bend's Farmer's Market, Indian jewelry, leathergoods, wood­which began in 1915, is the second working and patchwork quilts. 
largest such market in the United States. Although open just four days a Farmer's Market i's a place for Notre week, with Saturday being the busiest Dame students1 a rhust, a place every day, this barn-like building starts student should definitely visit. So buzzing before sunrise. At 5:00A.M. some morning when you are in the a restaurant in the crossbar of the mood to enjoy a midwestern farm-style H-shaped building starts serving breakfast or real homegrown foods, go breakfast as trucks unload and booths ahead and indulge in a rich Hoosier are set in the darkness. of Tradition, Farmer's Market. 
Beyond Notre Dame Farming in St. joseph County Sherry Mummert 
When one ventures out beyond the 1906, the State drained the swampscity limits of South Bend, and the surrounding the farm and exposed the camp1,1ses of Notre Dame and Saint rich muck soil underneath. For yearsMary's, it isn't long before they find following, slabs of the peat soil were themselves amidst the rural farmlands literally cut from the ground and sold 
of St. Joseph County. The fields as a fuel source. 
stretch toward the horizon, al.t:eady 

Prior to the 1960's when the majordotted with roof-tops and silos of function of the St. Joe Farm was thecounty farms. As spring arrives, the dairy business, the farm producedfarms come back to life from what a general vegetable crops and grains.
casual observer may have mistakenly Some of the food was once supplied tocharacterized a dormant period of their the University. Now, however, thefuntioning cycle. Actually, the prime business of the farm is beeffarmers have spent the winter prepar­cattle. After buying young calves,ing for the plowing and planting which they are fattened at the farm and later follows. , sold for slaughter. 

One of the stops on this Saturday's St. Joe Farm is just one of approxi­"Broaden Your Horizons" program is mately 1000 farms in St. Joseph. Thethe St. J.oe Farm, located approximate­"Broaden Your Horizons" programs,ly 5 mtles northeast of the city. The however, offers the rare opportunity tofarm, operated by the Holy Cross see for oneself how a farm operatesBrothers, was purchased by the order within the new and expanding world of in the late 19th century. At that time, agribusiness.

however, it was almost entirely inun­

[continued on page 10]
dated, and not suitable for farming. In 

arriving in 1865, finding work on the Municipal League and • 'Look'' maga­farms and railroads. Many Irish also zine. South Bend is still concerned came to work on the railroads, with growth as evidenced by its immigrating during the 1840's and successful efforts to bring other manu­1850's. German immigrants had facturing to the area after the Stude­settled early in South Bend, but the baker Company devastated the citymajor migration took place after 1848. with its closin~. While the city still In 1870, the Germans constructed a thrives industnally, the river no longerbuilding at 503 N. Michigan for their effects economic growth the way it Turnverein chapter. This buildin~, once did. Instead, the river is a crucial along with many of the churches budt part of South Bend's civic growth. On by the immigrants, still stands today us banks are the new downtown civic as evidence of South Bend's· diverse center and many of the 1200 acres of etqnic population .. parks and playgrounds established for Today, thefeople of South Bend are the enjoyment of South Bend citizens. 
inhabitants o a city which. was one of Influencing South Bend's development eleven cities named in 1968 as an from the beginning, the river is still a All-America city by the National part of what South Bend is becoming. 




The Observer -Features Thursday, March 29, 1979-page 9 Albert Einstein 
A great scientist is remembered 

Dear Fearures Editor: 
Yesterday, on Einstein's 100th Birth­day, I had the less-than-exhilarating experience of riding a Greyhound bus home for Spring Break. As we -were travelling at a rate that was much less than the speed of light, my bodily mass was in a state of rather low ener~ (E = m:2, you know). In order to remam above the quantum energy level ofsleep, I decided to pen the following article. 
tvfarch 14, 1979: En route from Chicago to St. Louis-­
On this day, the 100th birthday of Albert Einstein, I would like to salute one of the great American folk heroes of this century. 
Albert Einstein ... He travelled the back­roads of America during the infant years of the Twentieth Century, stopping to explain his astounding theory of relativ­ity to whomever he met. .Most peoJ?le responded to this peculiar stranger wtth blank looks, speechless ~· or, occasionally, a bra.Sh reply of, ' You're 
Tan vs. Pallid 
A Question of Color 
It's that rime of year again at Notre Dame! The annual clash between the whites and darks has arrived: or more ~propriately, the "did goes" agamst 
the didn't goes". 
The "did goes" seem larger every year. What's a poor deprived "Didn't goer'' to do? The present looks bleak, or should I say pallid! 
I:X>n't lose heart "didn't goers". Rejoice in your whiteness! Take pride in those spots ofred that appear on pinched skin. You've worked hard to get such a deep undertone of paleness. Aaunt it in the darkies' face. Hold your un-peeled nose high! 

F================================b:::==============~ 
Eric Carn1en "Changes Heart" 
I 

and direction in his latest albunt 
Eric Carmen's latest L.P, "Change of Heart," certainly can't be consider­ed a milestone in music business annals, but as the title might suggest, it does represent an apparent new direction for the ex-Raspberrean. 
Carmen's solo career blasted off in 1975, propelled by three straight hit singles culled from his debut album, but he found less success with last year's "Boats Against the Current," a more or less mediocre album whose ballads and faster songs strayed from the formula of its predecessor. 
The Cleveland native's approach in recording his latest release, however, could probably best be summed up as "if thts be pop, then let's make tho most of it.'' As a result, though, you get the distinct impression on several cuts that Carmen is trying way too hard to conform to the present AM market .. a scene heavily influenced by disco recording techniques. The last song on the disc, "Desperate Fools, appears to hint at this pressure. Is· Enc serious or just making up words to match the music when he sings: 
"I've been taking my ltfe one daY AT A TIME' TRYING TO PIECE IT AU TOGETHER· BUT I know in my mind that I'm starting to be what they want me to be and sometimes I wonder what's becoming of me." 
The son~ that most exemplifies this compromtsing effort musically is "Haven't We Come a Long Way," a 
tune that opens sounding a lot like i across sounding like theBeach Boys, 
Mike Cervini 
Sotheda.rk.ieswenttoafarawayplace. So they partyed night and day. So they didn't see a snowflake for a week. So they can't remember half the trip because they were too high. So they have an entire draw of new, bri~htly colored T-shirts. So what! There s no fun in all that. I think? 
Just remember, the darlcies can't hold outmuchlonger. They'll soon be fading fast. One by one they will cross ranks; traitors to their Coppertone Cause. A white victory is inevitable! 
Shortly, we will all be one again; marching proudly forward. One great colorless community! 
goofy." 
The miscomprehension of the masses failed to dissuade this man with a dream, this man with a vision. Unceasingly he journeyed through the vast, untamed frontier of the western United States. Many and varied were his means of transportation. Hopping a freight train in the stockyards of Kansas City ... hitch­ing a ride along the dusty plains of Oklahoma ... hiking through the moun­tains of Colorado ... rapelling down the canyons of Arizona ... going Greyhound to points far west--far west of where no intelligent being had ever ventured before. Yes, even to the wild, untamed boom town of Los Angeles. In fact, so determined was this intrepid voyager to deliver his amazing message to an unknowing, unsuspecting public, that he once dared to ride the efevated trains of Chicago. 
Desptte these unsinkable efforts, the poor professor only encountered rebuff and denial. Quite often, so infuriated would be the proprietors of the public drinking establishments where Einstein endeavored to expound his proclamation 
Elton John, and sorta just pops along simplemindedly to a beat that would make for a good discoteque dancing selection --and that's about all. 
Ironically, musicianship isn't at fault ·-in fact it couldn't have been much better with such notables as Burton Cummings (late of the Guess Who), Nigel Olsson, Jeff and Mike Porcaro, both of Toto, and Samantha Sang all sitting in on the recording sessions. 
Once you settle in, though, and accept the album for what it is -­mostly pop --you begin to realize that Carmen stiJJ has that flair for putting together some pretty catchy songs that, although they might not be so musically redeeming, are at least fun to listen to. The tide cut, his current single drawn from the first side, and its followup, "Hey Deanie," covered unfortunately last year by Shaun Cassidy, are points in fact of this ability. 
The two weakest songs on the album are "End of the World," a hyped -up ballad that offers only a bonng. and repititious chorus, and an offbeat performance of an old Four Tops' hit from '64, "Baby I Need Your Lovin"' to close the first side. Ironically, the latter is the song that is currently getting the most AM airplay. 
Followin~ a tradition begun with "My Girl' on his first album and "She Did It" on "Boats," Carmen includes a track that more than remotely comes that they would rudely escort his bodily presence from the inappropriate confrnes. The presence of a pitiful­looking foreigner endlessly spoutmg his theories ofspecial relativity and gravita­tional dynamics were just not good for business. 
Neither could Einstein frnd a sympathe­tic audience on the basketball courts of the nation;poor Albert did not realize that in this country, the term "Gymnas­ium'' did not mean ''secondary school,'' as it did in Europe. One of Einstein's typical attempts to impose order on a seemingly chaotic universe ended in an unfortunate, debilitating brawl, after which Albert was never again able to comb his hair. 
At long last, Lady Luck found the weatherbeaten genius. In a hurry to catch the last Greyhound bus to Wyoming, Einstein unwittingly took one too many turns around a revolving door, and wound up by mistake on the bus to Princeton, New Jersey. Upon disembar­king the vehicle, Einstein immediately walked into a wall. Luckily, nearby sat the Dean of the Colle e of Science of 
Q 
1.. · · 
~ P. · 
John McGrath 
"Someday." Besides its obvious roots, this moderate rocker impresses you for its lack of clutter ·-a trait that plagues some of the other so'ngs. 
Carmen, although he has the ability to rock as well as the next guy, (remember "Go All the Way?") scores best on this release with two ballads, mostly because of their straight­forward, technically unadorned format. The first is ''Desparate Fools," Carmen's previously mention­ed commentary on life in L.A. ·-a real classic that features Eric on piano accompanied only by a harmonica and a restrained string arrangement. 
The other high J?Oint of the disc is "Heaven Can Walt," a tight ballad whose catchline strikes a nerve some­where even in the casual listener and makes you stop and take notice ·-and · what you hear. is Carmen at his creative best. This song could very well be the sleeper of the album, and even thou~h, according to the wrapper sticker, tt isn't scheduled to be released as a single, it has the definite potential. of bringing this guy some recognition in much the same way ''All by Myself' and "Never Gonna Fall In Love Again" did in '75 ·-recognition not. as some dime-a-dozen pop star flowing with the AM flux as some of the cuts might su~gest, but as a seasoned veteran wnter who has been responsible for some of the best quality music this decade has seen. 
T.Paino 
Princeton University. Noting the odd behavior and unkempt appearance-· polarized h"lir, baggy pants, tattered old raincoat with the fuzzy pudding in the left pocket·of this peculiar crearure, the Dean naturally mistook him as Prince­ton's newly-hired professor--who was actually a shon, balding Norwegian from a small Catholic college in the midv.t:St, and was due in on the next bus. 
Dumb-founded but quick-thinking, Einstein accepted the post of colle~e proft"SSSr, and agreed to speak that night at the annual Science banquet. It was there, ofcourse, that Einstein presented his theory of relativity before an appre­ciative audience for the ftrst rime. Knowledgeable reporters from The New York Times were present; the man's true identity and origin were revealed; and the rest, more or less, is history. 
Hut what about the ch':mistry professor 
from whom the new position was meant? Outraged upon frnding no one to meet him at the Princeton bus station, young Knute Rockne returned to his beloved Notre Dame and decided to coach the football team. But that's another story. 
CIEE announces 
catalogue 
publication 
The Council on International Educa­tiona! Exchange (CIEE), the largest student travel organization in the U.S., announces the publication of the 1979 STUDENT TRAVEL CATALOG. Now :n its 6th year, the Catalog remains the most comprehensive free student guide available, with 66 pages of mformation on travel, study programs, work· exchanges and international discounts and benefits. 
Full details and application forms are 
provided for the International Student 
Identity Card, student accommo­
dations, Eurail and Britrail passes, car 
rent.als, travel insurance, recom­
mended books and guides, and stu­
dent tours of Europe, Israel, the 
U.S.S.R., and Asia. While some of the 
services offered are available only to 
students, many are open to non­
students also. 
The Catalog contains a schedule of 
CIEE's 1979 low-cost trans-atlantic 
student charter program with flights 
from New York, Los Angeles and 
Oakland to Paris, Zurich and Tel Aviv. 
Students on this "no-strings-attach­
ed" service are able to make firm seat 
reservations at any time prior to 
departure and travel one way or round 
trip. They may fly into and return 
from any ctty and are not restricted as 
to length of stay. Also listed are 
departure dates for CIEE's Public 
Charters between New York and Los 
Angeles. 
The vast network ofstudent flights be­
tween cities in Europe, Asia, Africa 
and Australia makes it possible for 
students to fly around the world at 
affordable student prices. These fares 
provide discounts of up to 75 percent 
over regular commercial fares and are 
available inthe U.S. only through CIEE 
or its appointed agents. Full details 
are in the Catalog. 
Free copies of the Catalog may be ob­
tained from CIEE, Dept. PR-ST79, 777 
U.N. Plaza, New YOrk, NY, 10017 
(212-661-0684) or 236 Norrh Sar'Ha Cruz, Los Gatos, CA, 95030 (408-354­5147) enclosing 50 cents to cover first class postage and handling costs. California Press. please note: CIEE also maintains offices at 109 3 Broxton Ave., Los Angeles, CA, 90024 (213­477-2096); 312 Sutter St., San Francis­co, CA, 94108 (415-421-3473); and 2511 Channing Way, Berkeley, CA, 94704 (415-848-8604). 

~ 


r
t r r 
~ ­
The Observer -Features 
Seminar on Disarmament 

\ ~ · · ~ · .·. .· Chits Stewart, Features Editor 
ls this your typical Friday afternoot'l? fal>hion, al> YoU. d)ntemplate suicide, dealing wkh nuclear a.tnis buildup, be made by {';Hiing 2~,.3-0886. Those Rush-home from classes; make via swan dive, ftorn the top of the military expenditur~s andthe possibi· itltel'ested ir ,attending should try to yourself up for two hours (real 
Dome. . lity for . reaucti.on of: pt'oliferating secure rheir .own rransportation.
pretcy-prerty); call 42 peop~e ~o secure Well,· this Friday can. be <lifferent, nuclear armament$ will be e>camined. a ride to Goose's; look ravtshmg. ?pon eyen meapi(lgful for a. change\ espe· · . · 1Jh~e wishing ~9 attend, but have ffll your entrance to the Mecca of Mtclle· · lob; stare at human faces, and involve yourself in trite, ridiculous conversa· 
~~:~~£:t;~~~~l~Z ·:J!.~~~th~i.~~i !i$fE~ih:~.!~rl;~
tion for the next nine hours; act macho conjunctiO:n with the tJnited Nations Pisarmamen( Project in N'e\\f York and phone number in my mailbox on (tigh shirt and bulging.bicep.s) or s~xy Seminar ()n Disarmame!lt, is sponsor· City; Dr. Ch~tles Winslo'Y, P:rofessor the 'rd floor of LaFortune Student (Jleavl!y decorated v1saget pursmg ing a meeting on the nuclear a.r.r.ns of Politica,J Scieo.c~. and Jl;l*e.roaiional Genter. ··. . . . · fips; standing stiff, with eagle eyes r~c¢; The meeting is hew~ heldat the :Affair-$ .a~ IridJa.n~ Univtr$icyfJ?urdue }(enough rnei)lbets of the N:D-S~~ hawking every man around, puffing a City Church of the ~rc:tf1te~. (corner 0~ . university; <i(l~ P~i a~rcy S¢hn~ider of .t;O.tnmUP.lt}' e~press interest1 a followf Tiparello); burp occasionally; feel in­Wolf and Benham Sps.) W-Elkhart, the US Atm1!1 Control and.. })tsarma~ up discussi9n group will be <>q~anized.
creasingly bored; feel despondently 

~7~~a;~.~onwrrow nigh~ from 5:30 t() ment Agent;y, Washingt&nj p:Q; ~tk~fs:e:e:!ori'!~t~;~~ew~~~s~~~
lonely when "so and .so'' qoesn'tsh?w up; ~o. h()me slobb~nQgly slos~~d; sry The pre\'ailing theme fqk tb;is confer< .··.·.··... A light ~vppe,r will ~e ..JielQ li:t the !1ude~ ar~s ta<;e. Anyone intereSted when )'()J.l're hack Ul yol;lrroo~ ab9ut .. ence is ''M:~ral anfl Epg~if!tl\ic Re~uJi: .··· ~t"e~hrf!O <:;hwr~· beginn~~g at .~ :~o .. .l(l.as::;isJins }P, ih$ <>tganization ?f rhi$ 
~~~ein~*i~~ o!~f:J;• f~t!o~;~~~~~··.· ness·· for DisartnarnenLn· During the ······.··•.•.·.WP ..:!l.\ Eor.·.•... t&Y..••:·.• •. P.•••'t'.<.~ru.·.:n .• •· •.. .. ...· ..•·•·.·.•····c·.b····o.u..r·t··.·.·a·.'.· ..• .•·.n.M.•.•.• ;r.ake.cetlyt.h.e 
seminar;
..e.i F?Q~#lju.J.~o..• ..•. .... g .J.J ·••h.·.r .• .. ·.·rn.•.·.·.•.•• m ..• .. •·.··.t···.··.·.·.·.··•a~
··.gs.· ..oo.·.·.uu····p·.-t .....·n ..·.~.·.· 
•.•.P.·.·.·.·

.Jectdte; ¢iifuy o£ th~ S~#).pJ~x iss~~ ·..··. $2,00. Res~rv~~~()ns forttus eX¢flr may lu "' 1 
"I felt I would be more a person in Mrs. Breckenridge was a Lutheran
Mrs. Breckenridge takes over 
my own right in the Lutheran·before her 1961 marriage. She has Church,'' she added. In the UCC, whenothing against the UCC but is was known as "Tom's wife." But tocomfortable with the decision to return
her husbands religious calling 
his wife:s Lutheran colleagues,
to her original denomination, and as a 

Breckenndge now is "Marilyn's
minister. 

MINNEAPOLIS (AP)-When Tom music, the arts. He had acquired a husband.'' Breckenridge left the ministry and love of nature and wildlife from his became a stockbroker, it was only the father, Walter Breckenridge, natural­
The Exhibit

start of robe and role changes in the ist and longtime director of the family. His wife, Marilyn, soon will museum of natural history at the become an ordained minister. university of Minnesota. 
Drama At The Nazz 

Mrs. Breckenridge completed her He enjoyed rebuilding and racing seminary studies Feb. 22. By sum­old cars, and had won several trophies 
Jake Morrissey 
mer, she hopes to be called as pastor at the Twin Cities Speedway dragstrip. 
The communication of emotion, any PhotograJ?h," hlled as "a schizophre­of an American Lutheran Church He once raced a Model A Ford that he emotion, from the confines of a stage nic invesugairion,'' is much more thanparish in the Minneapolis-St. Paul are, had souped so that it would accelerate is a difficult but potentially rewarding that, as the audience is shown threeShe was in her third year at from zero to 100 mph in 13 seconds. 
task. The problem may be approached individual parts of the character ofLuther-Northwestern Theological But he knew something about the from a variety of directions and Sara, and the final combination of theSeminary, St. Paul, when her husband stock market, too, from investment of dimensions, with varying degrees of three. It is evocative of the peeling of decided last April to leave the United a small settlement which came to him success, One satisfying solution is an orange into three sectons, removing Church of Chnst ministry, after he was in an automobile accident ''The Exhibit,'' a senes of four plays the skin one full piece at a time, until For years, Mrs. Breckenridge had when he was in high school. Following helping to start the week-long Senior the entire fruit is revealed. The dreamed of becoming a minister. Whe a series of interviews and licensing Arts Festival. It is an auspicious combined presentations of Sare one,had even thought that someday she examinations, he joined Dain, Kalman beginning. two and three is expertly handled, with and her husband might become & Quail, Minneapolis, members of the Writer-Director Mark Amenta chose the physical, romantic and cynicallyco-pastors of a church. New York Stock Exchange, The to create emotion by the power of pragmatic sides of her shown with ''The children felt very betrayed,'' transition from preacher to stock­words rather that acuons, In the four clanty, Of another order is "Monolo-· said Breckenridge, 40. "They felt broker was "beautiful," he said, with 
plays, the characters, in a generally gue," where, in several distinct situa­daddy's supposed to be the minister, no feeling of being "lost." 
removed, almost objective tone, trace tions, the personality of a woman is not mama." When she becomes a Lutheran the history of the sexual, spiritual and brought forth. As the piece progresses But after four years as pastor of a pastor, Mrs. Breckenridge expects her emotional isolation that they all have the monologue interweaves and flops church at Brattleboro, Vt., and a husband to be a helpful member of her experienced. None of the characters, back onto ttself, and the character decade at Lynnhurst Congregational flock. 
(all of whom are women), are fulfilled discovers that things, after all, do have Church, Minnea.Polis, Breckenridge He'd better!" she laughed, a hint of 
creatures, and their realizaton of this a connection. "If It Were Any Other had started thinkmg it was time for a resolution in her voice. "For 14 years, 
fact and their inability to change them Wednesday,'' the only one of the flays change. I supported his ministry in UCC 
o In considering options, churches.'' 
is an eerily disconcerting thought, one without a subtitle, is the tale two 
that rings all too true, women who wanted to know ech other, Breckenridge recognized a wide var-Breckenridge smiled in agreement. 
The setting is all important, since but at different times, It is a poignant, 1 iety of interests--business, engineer­"I recognize the role of denominations 
the characters revolve aroung the exceptional piece, with the loss of ing, sociaology, psychology, educa­but the Christian faith is paramount,'' 
sparsely furnished stage at the Nazz, opportunity never overdone by either tion, social work, the mission field, he said. 
one after the other. They are of the two actors in the work, 

reminiscent of ''Pictures at an Exhibi­The more astute reader will realize 
tion,'' and are presented as a series of that none of the women's names have
Album Review 

creative works for the audience to been mentions for two reasons, the 
muse and ponder, allowing them to first being that this is very much Mark 
Faith Band's 

draw their own conclusions. "By-the­Amenta's evening: the .characters are 
Sea" is a self-examination of one well-formed under his guidance, The 
character's true being by the gently second is more personal. All of the
Rock 'n Romance 

prodding of another. The character's actors, for various reasons, were very 
relationship is one of psychiatrist/ well handled and had a grip on all of
Steve Navarre 
patient, but theirs is much more subtle their characters, It is remarkableIn Rock'n Romance, the Faith Band "Dancin Shoes" is often heard on 10 its execution, with each nuance achievement. One that does nothas mixed a variety of musical forms to the AM waves these days. A slow, coming through with clarity, "The happen very often. 
produce a fine work. This album is melodic, piano-based ballad, this tune 
.definite!)' a mixture, and a rough one is one of the finest on the album. Carl 
... Farming
at thaf. If it has one major fault, it is Stories' vocals range somewhere 
[continued from page 8]

the inibi1ity of the group to define the befWeen Glen Frey and Rod Stewart; 
~continued operauon.
St. Joseph's Farm was founded inmusical direction it wishes to pursue; a his singing is clear and strong Far from being a place whete1867 by the Holy Cross Brothers. Thevery ~qmmon problem for highly­throughout the LP. 

brothers go to relax in the country, St.
buildings, most of which the brotherstalent~d; young bands. It is to their Joseph's Farm is a business overseenthemselves built, include a chapel and credit that the Faith Band can so al?tly 

by men who constantly keep an eye onThere are minor problems, however. 
an automated feed-mixing plant.
handle such a variety of mustcal the beef market prices, Before suchSymphonies, used as intros to two of Since its founding, the area of the farm sounds. 

concerns of the business begin at 7:00the cuts are totally out of place. 
has been increased by over 300 a.m., however, the small group of

At various times, the songs 

Fortunately, there are very short acres--from 1320 to 1626 acres. While dedicated brothers rises at 5:30 a,m. toresemble that of the Eagles, ARS, and (about ten seconds) and do not detract the farms at one time raised oxen, start their day in prayers.
the Allman Brothers. The southern to much from the album. Synthesizers horses, and hogs, today's majorrock or, as Dickie Betts once named it, are also overused in a few of the product is beef cattle. These animals Brothers Joachim and Angelo are"the Macon, Ga, sound," is definitely harder rock and roll tunes. While their feed on the ~raiu grown on much of the two .men who have devoted years ofthe strongest influence. 

purpose is to add glitter to the songs, land which ts under cultivation. service to the farm. Though he had''I'm a Fool For You," for example, they merely take away emphasis from The farm personnel has changed one time raised the prize-winningbrings back memories of the Pre­Bennett's fierce guitar and Stories' over the 112 years of O,Peration. While Holstein dairy herds, Brother Joachim lawsuit, -counter-lawsuit, and -Cher raspy vocals. Breg Riker, who in the 19th century nmeteen brothers has since turned his attention to thedays of the Allman Bros. The produced the album, has done a slick had assistance from sisters who present beef cattlestock, Brotherrespective guitar, harmonica, and sax JOb, but, as in the above two cases, has cooked, milked and took care of the Angelo, the man who keeps everything solos in this tune are far from over produced the record. 
chickens, today a mere handful of running, was of invaluable assistanceawe-inspiring, but are so crisp that to brothers and a graduate student work in the installation of the electricalhave made them more extensive would Rock 'n Romance has yet to make the farm. The loss of manpower is not system in the automatic feed-mixerhave been overdoing it. David as drastic as it seems when it is plant because of his electrical wizar­much of an impact nationally which isBennett's lead riffs throughout the understood· that mechanization facili­dry. It is through the combined efforts too bad because the Faith Band andalbum are, in fact, simple but biting; independent Village Records truly tated by a large investment in farm and talents of men like these thatclosely resembling those in ARS' equipment and machinery was a makes St. Joseph's Farm the produc­deserve to be a Cinderella story with.
''Imarginary Lover'' or the Eagles' this album. . 
necessary step to guarantee the farm's tive operation it is today.
"Victim of Love." 

The Observer Thursday, March 29, 1979-page 11 'Weary Willie' retires 

Em.m.et Kelly dies hum.bly at 80 

SARASOTA • Fla. (AP) Emmet Kelly, whose sadsack clown "Wearx Willie" delighted aud­iences for half a century, dies humbly yesterday, befittmg the soulful character he created. 
Kelly, who was 80, was wearing pajamas and carrying garbage to the front of his home m this Florida circus town when he collapsed of an apparent heart attack. 
"It was sudden, and peace­ful,"said Dr. Bob Windom, Kelly's physician. "He just collapsed and fell over. It would have been the way he wanted to go. He would not have wanted to be restricted." 
Kelly's wife, Evi, tried to revive him, but Kelly was prounced dead at Sarasota Hos­pital. The two had been together since they met be­
Prof Hans Morgenthau spole on America 'f Foreign Policy 

neath the Big Top and were
last night. 

married 24 years ago. 
Evi Kelly spoke fondly of the dual character she'd lived with. "To him, Willie existed,"Mrs. Kelly said. "Willie was ano­ther person. He lived with him so long. The suit still hangs in its own closet. Nobody could fill his shoes. No way, Weary Willies, I guess, now will retire." 
Kelly, who took his droopy­eyed character from the halls of burlesque to the palaces of kings, shunned the spotlight in his private life. He hated crowas and made no secret of 
In his last years, he lived a quiet life outside show busi­ness, .preferring ne'Yspapers,
television, or even hts orange opera.

,,.dmFox's., 
Eveb at 80, Kelly refused to retire his silent greaspaint bud­dy who would stumble into the center ring in ragged clothes, a dumpy hat, big floppy shoes and with an old broom futilely try to chase away a bothersome spotlight. 
Kelly created Willie out of chalk dust and pathos. He brought him in pantomime from the drawing board through vaudeville, the Ringling Bro­thers and Barnum and Bailey Circus, trade shows, movies, plays, ice shows, television, sports arenas, to command 
performances before kings and queens, and in later years, into gambling casinos and concert 
[continued from page 1) the 200-acre powerplant com­plex. Fouchard said the reading indicate "There's a hell of a lot of radiation in the reactor building." ) ack Herbein, vice president for generation at Metropolitan Edison, one of the consortium of utilities that runs the facility near Harrrisburg, Pa., said all workers present at the plant at the time of the accident were being examined. The plant employs 500 workers. "Some may have been con­taminated,'' Herbein said before Fouchard's announce­ment. "It's nothing we can't take care of.'' ''Nothing critical failed, but it's a dirry problem. It's going to take some time to clean up,'' he added. Officals said their readings indicated there was no im­mediate danger to the public, and there were no plans to evacuate the 15,000 people living within a mile of the plant.f Bob Fries, a member of the Department of Energy's emer­gency response team, said a specially equipped helicopter monitored small amounts of radiation 16 miles from the site. The highest concentration of radiation was registered at the nuclear plant site, where offi­cials measures 70 millrems of radioactiviry. A chest X-ray can give a person up to 30 millrems. "They are high but not yet critical ... It was not close to a catastrophe," said James Higgins, an NRC reactor in­spector. He said the reactor was safe. Higgins said the radiation was still coming from an auxiliary building, which contains ion­ized water divened there after the accident. The auxiliary building was being ventilated last night. Other radiation was releasead earlier when plant officials intentionally sent steam into the air--not knowing it was contaminated, he said. The NRC investigators said the reactor was still cooling down, and there were no plans to enter it for several days. They said there would ~e a full investigation of the accident. Se:vera1 plant ~ork~rs ~.uffered ''mmor contammatton, accor­ding .to ffiggins. "Their outer clothing was contaminated, but 
-. -~.--.­
-

Radiation 
the proper precautions were taken.'' 
Earlier, Edson Case, a NRC spokesman, said radiation le­vels inside the plant registered at 1 ,000 times normal. 
Case said NRC staff members and plant officials were inside the power plant control room. At one pont, he said, the workers were forced tempo­rarily to don face masks be­cause radioactive materials leaked into the room. 
The problem facing techni­cians was to reduce the temper­ature and pressure inside the reactor dome, and to stop the leakage of radioactive gases. 
Case said heat-caused pres­sure inside the dome had risen temporarily to four or five pounds per square inch about outside atmospheric pressure-­enough the cause leakage. the leaking gases may have in­cluded radioactive gases such as iodine and xenon, he said, but the pressure was not high enough to cause heavy fuels such as uranium or plutonium to leak. 
Sen. Gary Han, D-Colo., chairman of the Senate subcom­mittee on nuclear regulation, said human error appeared to have been a factor in the accident. 
''I am informed (by the NRC) that the emergency core cooling system has turned off prema­turely--resulting in a panial blockage of water needed to cool the nuclear core and keep it under control," he said. 

''Some human error seems to have been involved in respon­ding to the emergency situ­ation," he said, adding the NRC had told him radiation levels outside the plant did not pose a health hazard. 
A nuclear engineer for the state Department of Environ­mental Resources, William Dornsife, said the core had become over heated during the early-morning incident. 
Re_ynolds 
presents .facts on Placement Bureau 
Juniors of all majors are invited to attend a presenta­tion/ discussion by Paul Reynolds of the Notre Dame Placement Bureau tonight at 7 
p.m. in the Hayes Healy audi­torium. Reynolds will highlight the services which the Place­ment Bureau offers. In addi­tion, he will outline some of the activities that juniors should be considering in preparation for senior year when pursuing em­ployment opportunities. All JUniors are invited and encour­aged to attend. 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS JEWELERS SINCE 1917 Town & Country and Concord Mall, also University Park Mall 1 0-9 Blackmond 's, daily, 9:30-5 Special15% Discount On 
Student Union 
Record Sale 

Defective Record 
Exchange Thurs 2-4 Fri 3-5 
at Student Union Ticket Office 





ATTENTION COLLEGE STUDENTS 
You may be eligible for~ two-year Air Force ROTC scholarship. The scholarship includes full tuition, lab expenses, incidental fees, a reimbursement for textbooks, and $100 a month tax free. How do you qualify? You must have at least two years of graduate or undergraduate work remain­ing, and ~ willing to serve your nation at least four years as an Air Force officer. Scholarships are available to students who can qualify for pilot, navigator, or missile training, and to those who are majoring in sel.ected technical and nontechnical academic disciplines, in certain scientific areas, in undergraduate nursing, or selected premedical degree areas. Non-scholarship students enrolled in the Air Force ROTC, two-year program also receive the $100 monthly tax-free allowance just,like the scholarship students. Find out today about a two-year Air Force ROTC scholarship and abOut the Air Force way of life. Your Air Force ROTC counselor has the details. 
Contact: Captain Davis or Captain Norris 283·6634 
ROTC 
Gotewoy too great w~y of life. • h 
..,.~-·-;,

........... •00 ·----.. --··-.----......... -----..:------------.. -.. ·-........ ·------·-·---·--·--....................-..................4 ••••• -.._ ......... _.., ______ .......................----·---··· 


The Observer Thursday, March 29, 1979-page 12
r 
> 
Indiana passes bill calling for 
Louie's Thursday Special 

balancing of Federal bu.dget 
-applications must be in by Frida , A ril 6 th 

SMC music departmant ftJculty to present joint piano recital 

Budweiser & Olympin 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Indi­ana joined the list yesterday of 
states calling for a constitu­tional convention to draft an amendment requiring a 
8to 12pm 3 for Sl.OO 
We also Deliver Pizza to ND & SffiC 

balanced federal budget. After defeats last week in Massachusetts and Montana,
phone 232-0111 

the Indiana vote gave the issue renewed impetus. 
Despite predictions that states would pay for the budget-cutting fervor through 
lost revenue sharing funds, the state House of Representatives voted 61-35 for the resolution, 
Applications For St. Mary's 
Student Government 

which cleared the Senate earlier this year, specifically, the reso­
Commissioners 

lution formally requests Con­gress to call a convention to
are available in STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 

draft an amendment to prohibit 
deficit sp~nding in the absence of a nauonal emergency. 
LEMANS HALL 
Deadline for Applying Monday 

Indianapolis Republican Anthony L. Niles, a sponsor of 
the resolution, said he was concerned that "thbse in Wash­
April 2 Spm 
Commissioners are needed for : 

ington are attempting to intimi­date the states who are calling 
for a constitutional conven­tion." 
Athletic l:o-ex development election 

Then he instructed his col­
ott-campus public relations
judicial 

leagues on a bit of political history: ''The federal govern­ment was created by the states. The states are sovereign, not

Positions available 

the federal government.'' The constitution says a con­
for next year's 

vention may be called to llro­pose amendments if two-thll'ds of the states -now 34 -petition for one..
Hunger Coalition 

Council gives .fellowship 
(coordinator, secretary, treasurer, etc.) 
Call8743 or 288-3831 
I 

to ND pro_{
today for information. 

Rudy Sandoval, associate professor· of Law at Notre Dame, has been awarded a post-doctoral fellowship br. the National Chicano Council on Higher Education. Sandoval
Assistant Treasurer­

plans to use the funds for researc~ in jurisprudence and
Student Government 

economtcs. A member of the law faculty since 1976, Sandoval received
-must be presently a sophomore 

undergraduate degrees at San Antomo College and Texas A.
and going into Accounting 

& I., and law degrees at Texas Southern and Harvard Univer­
-pickup applications in the 

sities. He is a specialist on consumer law and was selected
Tr~asurer's Office 

last year from over 2,000 appli­cants as one of 3 3 finalists for a
2nd Floor LaFortune 

White House Fellowship. 
Ruth Fischer and Jeffrey Jacob, members of Saint Mary's College ·music depart­ment faculty, will present a 
THE RAMROD SAYS 
WELCOME BACK WITH 

piano recital tonight at 8 p.m. in -the Little Theatre, Moreau Hall, at Saint Mary's. Fischer
* $2.00 pitchers tonight and 

and Jacob will perform the Petite Suite by Debussy and the 
every thursday night. 

Sonata in F Minor, Op. 34-b by Brahms. They will also present 
* Highest Pinball score wins 

"Awakening," a new work which was composed by Roger 
a fifth ~f booze weekly l!! 

Briggs of the Saint Mary's College music faculty. 
Fischer received her bachelor of music degree from Saint Mary's College and her master

frPP .1dmission with coiie~e ID 

of music degree from Indiana University. Additional advanc­
511 S. Michigan St. (downtown) 

ed studies in piano, chamber music, and accompanying were
open tiii 3am 

continued at the North Carolina 
Center for Pastoral Liturgy to offer training program 
A training pro~ram on "Christian Imtiation ' will be offered by the Notre Dame Center for Pastoral Liturgy from April 19 through May 4. Members of liturgy planning committees, diocesan liturgical commisions, directors of reli­gious education, and other inte­rested persons are invited to attend. ­
Through presentations , discussion and workshof ses­sions, the program wil deal with the theological and pas­toral dimensions of Christian initiation. The program will be held at Fatima Retreat House on the Notre Dame campus. 
Sessions will include: 
--''Conversion and the Easter Mystery" and "The Christian's Story Retold" by John Gallen, 
S.J ., director of the Center for Pastoral Liturgy and editor of Eucharistic Liturgies and Chris­tians at Prayer. 
--"Baptism: History, Theol­ogy and Pastoral Questions" and ''Lenten Spirituality'' by Dr. Mark Searle, assistant pro­fessor of Theology at Notre 
School ofthe Arts. Her coaches 
included Rebecca Penneys, 
Claude Frank, Janos Starker, Joseph Gingold and Seth McCoy. 
Fischer has performed under grants from the Martha Holden Jennings Foundation and the California Arts Commission. Fischer served on the £acuities of the North Carolina School of the Arts and California State University before joining the Saint Mary's music department in 1976. 
Jacob received his bachelor of music de~ree from the University of Cmcinnati and his master of music degree from the J uilliard School. He is presently completing his doctor of musical arts degree from the Peabody Conservatory of the Johns Hopkins University. His Dame and author of Christen­

. 
mg.

--''The Easter Vigil and Mys­tagogy" and "Pastoral Methods for the Study of the Experience of Initiation'' by J amt:s Loprest!, S.J ·, a d~to~al candidate domg .e~l?e~tenttal resear<=;h on the mmatton of adults t~to the _Church. Father 
Loprestt a~so wtll condu~t work­shop sesstons on modehng and critiquing initiation and renewal programs. 
--''The . Adult Catechume­nate: History, Theology and Pastoral Questions'' and ''The Rites of Initiation" by John Melloh, S.M., assistant profes­sor of Theology at Notre Dame and associate director of the Center for Pastoral Liturgy_. 
--''A Parish History ofAdult·· Initiation Practice" by Mary Lunardi, S.N.D. deN., a pasto­ral minister in St. Catherine/ St. Lucy Parish, Oak Park, Ill. 
Registration is limited to 40 persons. To enroll, contact the Notre Dame Center for Pastoral Liturgy, P.O. Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 or call (219) 283-8801. 
teachers -have included. John Meretta, Herbert L. Newman, Mieczylaw Munz, Carlo Zecchi and Leon Fleisher. 
Jacob is a former first prize winner of the Clara Bauer Memorial Piano Competition and the Thursday Music Club's Young Artist Competition. Last summer Jacob studied at the Salzburg Mozarteum and parti­cipated m the Salzburg Interna­tional Music Festival. He was recently the fll'st American pianist to perform at the Goethe Institutes of Toronto and Ottawa, Canada. Before join· ing the Saint Mary's faculty in 1977, Jacob served on the faculties of the University of Cincinnati and the Peabody Conservatory. 
Tonight's recital is open to the public. 
Before the Indiana vote, the National Taxpayers' Union, which supports a balanced­budget amendment, said 28 states already have passed such ,resolutions. However, that includes Nevada, where the governor vetoes the · legisla­ture's action in 1977. 
Indiana, which passed a simi­lar resolution in 1957 only to have it declared invalid becuse of technical flaws, is the seventh state this year to call for a convention, which would be the first since the one that drafted the Constitution in 1787. 
The other states were Arkan­sas, Idaho, Iowa, North Caro­lina, South Dakota and Utah. 
Sen. Richard G. Lugar, R-Ind., who has proposed a balanced-budget amendment in Congress, hailed the Indiana action. 
''This is welcome news to all Americans,'' the freshman senator said in a statement released by his Washington office. ''The Congress has made it clear that it will never adopt a balanced budget amendment unless it is compel­led to do so by the states and the American people. The nation is pleading for effetive action against inflation, but as far as most of my colleagues are concerned, it is still business as usual. We need the pressure of the state petitions to force the 

balanced budget issue. 
''The leadership of the Indi­ana General Assemby proved that state legislatures cannot be scared off by threats of cuts in federal aid," Lugar added. 
Freshman state Rep. Maurice E. Doll Jr., D-Vin­cennes, said he favored a balanced budget but feared a constitutional convention. Doll, who unsuccessfully proposed an amendment last week to limit the scope of a convention, aid the resolution was akin to "sending a blank check." 

The Observer Thursday, March 29, 1979-page 13' 

Court hears reverse discritnination case 
WASHINGTON (AP) Two questions from the bench yes­terday put into sharp focus a Supreme, , Court case that may chart future efforts to eliminate discrimination against minori­ties and women to the nation's job market. "On its face, isn't this a dis­crimination against white per­sons?'' asked Justice Potter Stewart. · 
"Isn't the issue here whether the 1964 law (passed by Con­gress) prohibits you from doing this?" asked Justice William J. Brennan Jr. 
The answer to both inquiries was ''Yes.'' 
The high court was asked questions and heard arguments for 90 minutes yesterday in the case of Brian F. Weber, a 32-year-old lab worker at Kai­ser Aluminum and Chemical Co.'s Gramercy, La. plant. 
Weber, who is white, charged his employer with ra­cial discrimination in a 1974 lawsuit on behalf of all whites at the Gramercy plant after he was shot out of a training program for higher paying, sktlled Jobs. 
The program was provided for in a contract between Kaiser and the United Steelworkers Union. It specified that one black applicant be accepted for every white applicant accepted, even though whites generally had more seniority than blacks. 
At the time, only two percent of the plant's skilled jobs were held by black employees even 
though  blacks  comprised  39  
percent  of  the  plant's  work  
force.  

Weber ch;1rged -and two lower federal courts agreed ­
Right To Life 
sponsors Jog-a-Thon 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life organiza­tion will hold a Jog-a-Thon on Sunday, Aprill (rom 1 to 5 p.m. The "Jog for Life" will be held on the outdoor track behind the A.C.C., or on the indoor track in case of rain. 
Sponsor pledge forms are avatlable at 103 Alumni, 222 Breen-Phillips and 210 Regina­North. Everyone is welcome to either run or sponsor a jogger. Anyone with questions may call Tim Grothaus at 1003. 
Buy Classifieds from 
The Observer 

ARmANDO'S 
BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 1437 N .Ironwood Dr. South Bend 277-0615 
Sue, Ruthie, Kim 
Armando-stylist 
mon-fri 8-5:30 sat 8-2 by appt. only sat-no appt. needed 
that such a racial quota violated a portion of the 1964 Civil Rights Act banning discrimina­tion in employment because of ra~e,. sex, rleigion or national ongtn. 
Blacks with less seniority than Weber were accepted for the program ahead ofh1m. Had senwrity been the sole basis for participation, few blacks would have qualified. 
The 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, in invalidating the program, r~led that su~h affir­mauve acnon remedies are illegal unless past racial bias by an employer is proven or admit­ted. 
Civil Rights leaders claim the loss of such ''voluntary'' affir­mative action could jeopardize efforts of the past fifteen years to improve job opportunities for minorities and women -often at the expense of white men. 



.... 

The Observer Thursday, March 29, 1979-page 14 
Kuhn says 
•­
umptres are 'off base' in salary demands 
DAllAS (AP) Baseball Commissioner Bowie Kuhn said yesterday that dissident major league umpires ''were off base" in their contract de­mands, and warned "contin­gency plans are ready'' for the opening of the season next week. 
"I hope these decent men see the error of their ways," said Kuhn. "We (major league owners) have plans for an alternate approach. The um­pires would be making a serious mistake if they do not show upfor work.'' 

cotted spring training. Substi­tute umpires have called the exhibition games in Florida and Arizona. 
A federal judge ruled Tuesday that he had no authority to order umpires to go to work, saying ''There is no question in my mind they are entitled to bargain as individuals." 
The umpires want more mo­ney and other improvements in a collective bargaining agree­ment fashioned last year. They are in the second year of a. five-year agreement. 
''It is unfortunate that we have the problem we have, but in this case they (the umpires) are way off base. What they are doing is wrong," said Kuhn. 
Kuhn was on a National Association of Broadcasters sports panel with National Foot­ball League Commissioner Pete Rozelle, National Basketball Association Commissioner Larry O'Brien, and Roone Ar­ledge of ABC News and Sports. 
On another topic, Kuhn, O'Brien, and Rozelle agreed that there was a danger of oy~rexposing sports on tele­vlslon. 
"It's now beginning to con­cern us a lot," said Kuhn. "We are not yet in a saturation situation, but it could become dangerous," said O'Brien. 
"I don't think we have reached it (overexposure) yet but we have to be aware it could happen," said Rozelle. 

Asked about upcoming changes in the NBA, O'Brien said "It is very conceivable" that the three-point play will be adopted next year. 
"There will be an intense discussion by our rules commit­tee in several weeks," he added. 
The three commissioners agreed that video tape replays were virtually useless as offi­cial's aid because of the incon­sistency of angles. Rozelle pointed out that all 28 NFL teams concluded recently that the replays were not feasible. 
''PerhaJ?S technology in the future wtll make it · possible,'' said Rozelle. 

Molaritv 

ATTENTION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS! 
The Air For<.:e has opflnings for young men t1nd wom(_)n lllclJonnq 111 
... elect'-'d science and '"'nginP~riny field., Lik'• Al-'ron~ulfi< .1l. 1\«'Hl"Jltln'. 
General and El~>ctrical Engmeering. MathPmati•·,, l'hvsic' ,md Com 
puter Technology. 
To help prepare for one of these. Air Force ROTC offprs two dnd 
four·year programs of study which will defray some of vour college 
.costs 
After completion of the AFROTC requirement. and upon your grad· 
uation. youll be commissioned an officer in the Air Force. Then come' 
nesponsihility. Pxperience in your specialty with some of the O,,t rwo 
pie and facilllie> in the world .•:md a mission with a pull""" Yo,dl g<'l 
<xcellent starting salary. medical and dental care. 30 davs of paid va 
cation heginning your first Yfar. and more. 
Look into the Air Force ~OTC program right away. See what's in it 
for you. See how you can serve your country in return. You'll be glad 
vou put your maJor to work on a job that really counts. 
Contact: Captain Davis or Captain Norris 
283·6634 
Got_ewoy to a great way of life. 

by Michael Molinelli 

TilE fWL£5 ANDR£GIII.A1lON5 Qo\V£ U.S AFlRM ~NJ}1TION FORA UEALTJIY NID 1WPY 
HARRJA6E~­~l1AT 11P1E IS IT? 

U.S. trade deficit declines 
WASHINGTON (AP) -­Helped by a sharp decline in oil imports, the U.S. trade deficit declined to a 21-month low of $1.3 billion in February, less than half the previous month's deficit, thegovernmentreported yesterday. 
The improved trade picture was likely to give new support to the dollar, which has been recovering in recent months from the battering it received during the past two years on the foreign exchange markets. 
The biggest 1mprovement in February was a substantial 17.5 percent decline in the value of tmported oil to $3.29 billion, the lowest in six months, the Com­merce Department said. The 
· volume of petroleum products was down nearly 19 percent to 238 million barrels. Government trade analysts say they expect the trade deficit to dechne to $22.5 billion this year. While that still is a huge amount, it would be a welcome improvement over the record deficit last year of $28.4 billion. The trade deficit declined to $1. 3 billion last month from $3.1 billion in January. Total U.S. exports in February increased 2. 9 percent to a record $13. 5 billion, while im­J?Orts declined 8.8 percent to $14.8 billion. The major improvement on the export s1de was a 3.6 percent increase in manufactured goods to a total of just under $9.1 billion. 
Weber tells o_f summer film studies series 
Ronald Weber, director of 
the Department of Communica­
tion Arts at Notre Dame has 
announced a series of Film 
Studies courses to be featured 
during the Summer Session. 
The courses and their instructors include ''Documen­tary Film,'' with Edward Fischer; "Film-making," with Jeanette Abi-Nader; "Script­writing,'' with Donald Costello and photography courses for beginning and advanced stu­dents with Richard Stevens. 
Other courses to be offerd not related to Film Studies include "Exploring the Relationship of Journalism and Literature in Current Writing" with Weber; "Understanding the Arts" with Thomas Strictch; "Design," from Fischer; and "Writing of Fiction and Non-Fiction," with Elizabeth Christman. 
Courses will run from june 18 through August 2 an are open to graduate students working for the M.A. degree in Communcation Arts as well as undergraduate and non-degree students. 


The Observer -Sports Thursday, March 29, 1979 -page 15 
At Westwood 
. Brow-n nruned to coach Bruins 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -UCLA American Basketball Associa­said, "This school hs a great changed its basketball coaLhing tion and until ea:rly this year academic program and an unbe­image Wednesday by naming had coached the Denver Nug· lievable basketball history." often-explosive Larry Brown to gets of the National Basketball He referred primarily to the 
carry on where coaches in the Association. 10 national titles in 12 years by past been more low key. He resigned from that job the team under John Wooden, 
Brown switches from the and said, "I was hoping I who was succeeded by Gene professional game to the colle­wouldn't have to go back to the Bartow and then Cunningham. giate and said that is what he pros. The pros are good for All. three were of the low key wanted even though the pay certain people and it gave me vanety. will be less. the opportunity to coach, but I Brown, who on several occa­
Brown, 38, succeeds Gary didn't think I was suited to that sions was tossed out of pro Cunningham who resigned last type of job. games for ultra-strenous obJec­week to pursue another career ''This is a great moment for tions, told newsmen there was that afforded more time for his me and I hope in the future not too much difference family. UCLA can say the same thing." between the game in college 
The new coach was a guard at Brown becomes the seventh and the pros and ''anybody North Carolina, a played and UCLA basketball coach in its coaching demands players to coached in the now-defunct 61st year of basketball, and he give thetr best ,.every game.'' 
• • • Bronx Botnbers 

NEW YORK (AP) · The NCAA basketball tournament between Michigan State and Indiana State drew a record rating for a college basketball chamJ?ionship 8ame, according to Ntelsen f1gure released yesterday. 
The Monday night game, matcing All-Americans Larry Bird of Indiana State and Earvin ] ohnson of Michigan State, received a 24-1 rating, meaning nearly one-quarter of all the· sets in America were tuned into the game. The game got a 38 share, meaning 38 percent of the sets on during the time period were watching Michigan State beat win the national title 75-64. 
The previously highest rated champwnship game was UCLA coach John Wooden's farewell performance in 1975 when the Bruins beat Kentucky. That game got a. 21 . 3 rating and 3 3 share. 

Last year's championship game between Kentucky and Duke received 19.9 rating and a 31 share. 
, , , Irish 
(continued from page 16] 

projected opponents, but Sullivan is sure it will be 1 'tough competition.'' 
The finals, which will be held in San Jose, California, will mark the first time that the NO women fencers have ever com­
peted  for  the  national  cham­ 
pionship.  
The  Observ to 5:00 p.m  er office will acceptAll .  

[continued from page 16] 
center stage, a virtuoso who craves the attention and adulation of the multitudes. 
While the Hunters, Nettles', Chambliss', etc., seem at ease with their roles as steady contributors to the cause, the sudden acclaim heaped on Bucky Dent after his post-season heroics, followed by a part in a ridiculous television movie with the Dallas Cowboys cheerleaders, is cause to wonder if its all coming too quickly to the ex-Chisox; if we are to believe rumors of marital problems with wife Stormy, it's possible the pressure may take its toll on last year's Series MVP. 
Perhaps it takes a special man, someone who has won over 80 percent of his major league decisons, to keep his head while most people about him have already lost their's. Ron Guidry, whose slender frame hardly makes him appear as if he could strike terror in the hearts of menancing batsmen, carries himself in a way that reflects his confindence as well as the dignity and respect that he has inspired. Like most of his teammates, he has divorced himself from the controversy to concentrate on his specialty. 
' 1 All I needed was a chance to show what I could do," Lightnin~ relates. "When it came along, I did the JOb and moved into the rotation.'' The Cajun dismisses his pre-season probl'ems to experimenting with a change-up, and the fact that "I always start slowly m Florida. But I' II be ready when the season begins." And, so will the hordes of writers, cameras and announcers, to record every move made by the "best team money can buy"··the amazing World Champion Yankees. 
Classifieds 
. 

Playmakers Athletic Foot~r and Ac·
Notices For Rent ­cessories in Scottsdale Mle Is grvi1:if •II Notre Dame and St. Mary's students a 10 percent discount on all athletic footwear.House for rent, summer only, close to Why pay more? Flanner Records has all campus, excellent condition, will acco· Bradlex GT 11·'78 5100 miles $6500. Call
$7.98 LP's for only $4. 99. Flanner modale one to five students. For 
283·67 5after 7 p.m.
Records· 603 Flanner-Phone 4256 Hours information call 287·5361 evenings. Monday-Thursday 4:D0-5:00, 6:30-8:00. 

"Panasonic FM1AM stereo cassette play-
Why spend more off campus? Room for rent with option to share house. 

er, recorder, $130. Zenlt·B camera $40,
Graduate student preferred. References 

beautiful plants and more. 272·1560."
Attention 111 Logan Center Volunteers required. Rent is negotiable. 289.0103 1nd Interested students! nights. 
Help a mentally handicapped child enjy Rooms for rent, $40.00 each. Fireplace, the world famous Monte Carlo circus this rides to school. 3blocks from golf course. 

Personals 
Saturday at the ACC. Lots of kids are 233·1329 Sept. or June. going, so come and help them have a ~reat ti~e. Remember, Saturda~ Marcy Students 5 Bedrooms • 2 baths available 
125, 9.00 a.m. • 2.30 p.m. eet at for 1979-1980 $300 month. Rent from Logan Center at 9:00 a.m.-2:30 p.m. June 1 through summer $150.00 month. Meet at L~an Center at 9:00 a.m. 232·9498' 291·4528 Questions cal Mike 1371 or Sue 4·1·4832. ·­
Gay Students of Notre Dame/Saint 
Wanted
Mary's College Gay information line 8870 Thursday March 29 10 pm · midnight 
Need ride to Chicago Frld1y Man:h 30 
Frida~ March 30 10 ·pm midnight 
after 3:30. Please call John 1373 or Paul or wr te PO Box 206 
1374. 
TYPING. IBM Selectric Pickup and Ride Needed to L.ansing-Mt. Pleasant
delivery 277-0296. 
area. Weekend of March 31. Will share all expenses. Please call Dusty at 
4·1·5183. 
1 or 2 BEDROOM FURNISHED -­

Lost&Found 
APARTMEN I I ROM May to August. Call (219) 778·41 B6 evenings. 

Need ride to Ohio State University March Lost before break: One black and brown 30. Cali Sharon 7906. tape box containing 10-12 8 trick tapas. Call George at 1535 after 11:30 p.m. Please help, desperately need 3 Billy Joel 
-------------------tickets. Dan 8252. Lost: Gold Selko woman's. Please return· reward. Call 289-6711 or 232·6486 after 6 Need used typewriter! Call Kathy 
p.m. and ask for Candy. 4+5723. 
. 
Need passen~ers to Cincinnati, April 7 

Call Judy 72 7. Whoever swapped camel hair coats with me Friday, March 9 at Senior Bar please call Pat 4+4915 
For Sale 

Lost: One orange Road sign from 3A . Farley. Reward lor information leading 1973 Mazda RX3, good condition, $500 or 
to Its recovery. Call 6804. 
best offer. Call Terry Dunne at 283·8393. 

lost:Gold Bulova woman's watch with 1977 MGB Roadster, 8000 miles, Green ~ray face. If found, please call 1349. AM/FM, perfect condition, 289-1482. 
eward. USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7 Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Road Niles. 683·2888. 
Ed, 

You are not normal. Ask any of the long-suffering souls who work with you In the Archives. Next time around, we're hoping the cesspool has better luck... 
Steve Pasley, 

You are not really ugly...but you are certifiably homely. We can tolerate your ~ersonality but your looks have to go. 
our repulsed roommates. 
JR, Bob and even Paul 
Need ride to Hartford CT for Easter. Can leave noon Tuesday, Please call 288·9049. 
Ray, Hera it Is, just like I promised! [In bold yet] I hope you had 1 great break! Mary Pat 
P.S. Can I ~o to LaPorte with you any way? Please. 
Tony of 2nd floor Cavanaugh, I had 1 great time when we picked each other up Wednesday night In Ft. Lauderdale. Do you want to do It again next sprint? 
Anne 
Alex, 

Thanks alot for the beer shampoo at happy hour. You helped make our vacation great. 
Your partners in crime, the girls from 412 &424, Susie, MJ, Anne, Pam and Anne 
Keith, 

From now on, stay and answer the phones instead of going off to dream of the 4th dimension. 
ME 

Huddleman, Thanks for the Ice cream Mond1y night. 
All classified ads must be rece1ved by 5:00p.m.. two days prior to the issue in wh1ch the ad is run. classilieds Monday through Fnday. 10:00 a.m. cla~s1lieds must be pre·pa1d. e1ther in person or through the mall . 
Don't Forget 2nd Annual Gong Show Car rebuilding cheap!! Call Rod at 8384 March 30, 9:30-? at Guiseppies. Beer· anytime. outrageous entertainment sponsored by 
Patti·SMC social commission. 
From one frizzy-haired person to another: Tired talk Is not the answer.
Happy Hour, NICkle's 4-6 Friday In 
Rest up, get drunk, and we'll swing Intocelebration of the bli~~rl:~vs of Bill 
the weekend.
Buttan, Larry Marczak and Kevl;, M.-:1 
The King in black shining armor.
Kenna. Be there. Aloha. 
Every~.. · "'Ill and wish Anne letcher a
TJJ: 
happy B·dll) at 4058!
Are you tired of dining hall food? Does "Chef's Surprise" evoke a bad mood? 
Happy B·day letch!
For a nl~ht that won't ~all, Seven o'clock Mary, Lori, Sue and Kathyat Wals Hall. To re use would be just plain rude. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MOM! love, JanBJK and John Caan 
P.S. Dad says hello too! This is true.
Jim, "I'm a lucky !ella... " 
Michael Mullery,Trader Jack's 
Belated happy birthday! Thanks for all the ~od times! Love, your backA and L Engineers! Get together In scratc er.
Walsh TV Lounge 4-£ p.m. Friday. • . 
Personal tours of Beautiful Beaver
Tom, Jim, and Bill: Thanks for the shaft, 
County PA. Just 5 minutes off InterstateOtis elevator couldn't have done it any 80 (or was that the turnpike?) Call Frankbetter! (Twas to be expected) 
1201 CHEERS! Mary Jane Beckman is 201! 
To all of you who went to Florida and got
Look for her on the dance floor and under tans. I hope you peel.
the table at Senior Bar. Buy her agimlet! 
Apollo
Happy Birthday M.J. MMM Carol and Aileen: 
The spaghetti was really ~ood on par
Marte Me~argle 
with the salad. Seriously· t ank you so
1never t ought redheads could burn so much It eased the trauma of hermithoodhot. Next time you're in Florida, make 
Ryan
like the waves. Good luck in the wet T·shirt contest. 
Tall Cutle:
Love and Klsses I love your Cleveland tan and ~ourThe Seventh Flee! 
Detroit glow. Best wishes losing t ose luscious excess pounds.
Mary Weisenberg, Madhatter
Many thanks to the best lady ~ayroll 
P.S. ask me about my new "sacks."
expert the Observer ever had. pecial thanks for the weekends In Champaign. 
Dear Patty,J.T. 
I'm so sorry I had to break our engagement.
Tickets lor "Spirit In the Night" the ut I'm sure you understand. Maybesophomore class formal, are now avail· we could have lunch sometime.
able and going quickly at the dining halls. 
GEH 
Beth, 
After my prolonged exposure to Florida To the notorious washerwoman of Farley sunshine, I have come to realize that you and the a~lng senior of 8th floor Grace • are my "massa:~." Enjoy Spr n~at Notre Dame · will see you Patsy both for An ostal. So Notre Dame Is 11 In basketball huh?!? Well Marquette Rich, isn't either. • Good luck with the Thanks for the Billy Joel ticket. Too Observer! bad It's not In the second row. Next lime 
Sue I'll get them! I have better luck In lotteries! Patsy 

Thursday, March 29, 1979 -page 16
S12orts 
Piane, Irish tracksters anxious for outdoors 
by Mark Perry Sports Editor 
Having just completed a spring conditioning trip in Alabama, the Notre Dame track team ooens their outdoor season this Saturday, as it hosts six teams in the Notre Dame Open at Cartier Field. Field events and prelims begin at 11:30 and the running events start at 1 _p.m. 
Competmg a~ainst the Irish in this non-sconn~ meet will be Valparaiso, Aqumas College, Southwestern Michigan, Jackson Community College, University of Chicago, and the Chicago Track Club. 
This meet will be the first for Notre Dame contested on its brand new all-weather track, which was installed at Cartier Field last fall. 
''Since this will be a non­scoring meet, we will be exper­imenting in some events," said Irish Head Coach Joe Piane. "We are going to move a lot of guys around, running them in events they normally don't compete in." 
Some of the best runners in the meet should come from the Chicago Track Club, including Mike Durkin, who competed for 
Sportswriters take heed 
All students interested in writing sports for The Observer are encouraged to attend an 8 
p.m. meeting tonight at the paper's offices on the third floor of the LaFortune Student Cen­ter. 
Current writers are also asked to attend this meeting as plans for the upcoming school year will be discussed. 
the United States in the 1976 
Olympics, and Stan Vinson, 
who has been one of the top 
quartermilers over the past six 
or seven years and will be 
competing in the intermediate 
hurdles. 
The meet will begin what Piane and the team hope will be one of their best seasons ever. "We are looking for continued improvement,'' Piane said. "We especially hope to im­prove our sprint crew. Our sprinters looked better indoors, and we hope they can continue that trend outdoors." 
Piane pointed out five big meets whtch will be the keys to Notre Dame's success out­doors. "We have five big weekends in a row, competing in the Arkansas State Invita­tional, the Illini Classic, the Kansas Relays, the Drake Relays, and the Penn Relays," the Irish coach said. 
In addition to those meets, Notre Dame will also compete in the IC4A Championships in Philadelphia and will host the Central Collegiate Conference meet on May 24-26. The Irish also hope to qualify some runners for the NCAA Cham­pionships, to be held on May 31 and June 1 and 2. 
Piane also noted some areas where the Irish should be strong this year. "Arnie Gough is capable of running the high hurdles in under 14 seconds, our mile relay should be good, and our middle distance crew is extremely strong." 
Freshman Jacques Eady highlighted · the trip to Alabama, as he won the triple jump and 200 meter run, and placed in two other events against Troy State. Tr~ won the meet by four poin~s, "and they were really. pumped up for Notre.D?_~~.-because they set a lc ."''of school records in the meet,'' Piane added. 
by Michael Ortman Sports Writer 

The University of Michigan seems to have Notre Dame's number this year. The Irish tennis team joined the football 
Bronx Bombers in spotlight 
The touring New York Yankee caravan was a smash success during their one-night stand at AI Lang Theater in St. Petersburg. Playing the role of big-city slickers, as opposed to their poverty-stricken country cousins, the Flushing Mets, to perfection, they entertained a standing room only crowd, not only during the. main performance, but both before and after the event. The magnetic aura of Bob Lemon's troupe is due more to the stunning and varied personalities of its members than the fact that they are the best atwhatthey do. 
The Yankees are definitely the prototype of the modern era of baseball. It is a team that has rejected the traditional do~ma of how to field a winner: the J?,atient nurtunng of its investments (players) unul their maturation, from the abyss of the Piedmont Lea~ue on up to the big time. Instead, George Stembrenner has created his monster by buying or dealing for used but dependable and sturdy parts from his rivals. 
But, while compiling a roster of many of the game's brightest luminaries, on close inspection New York does not resemble a 25-man squad with a strong identity. There is none of the banter or risque story-telling seen in other clubhouses on this team; basically, they are high-salaried employees driven by a fierce pride in nothing more than themselves and their own abilities that makes this team the newest dynasty. 
Everywhere these pinstripers go they attract attention and create excitement. On thts dav, a camera crew from "Saturday Night Live" waits impatiently for the arrival of Bill Murray to 


Mike 
Henry 

begin filming a short se~ment for an upcoming show. Murray, outfitted m a white fedora, a red and white-checked sportscoat, and a pair of droopy slacks, is being detained at the press gate by a 70-year-old usher who demands to see his credentials. When a Northern journalist intervenes, explaining who Murray is., the usher claims not to recognize him because he has only been at his job three days. 
When Murray finally gets on the field, he introduces Chico Escuela, a 41-year-old second baseman who is attempting a comeback with the Mets. One sign greets him by e:xclaiming, "Parsifpanny, New Jersey, Loves Chico", and cries o "Chico, Chico" resound from Al Lang's rafters as the ancient Escuela, who bears a striking resemblance to Garrett Morris of the "Not Ready For Prime Time Players", circles the field. 
It is difficult to maintain one's perspective when they are consistently in the spotlight accorded this show of shows. Jackson, whose annual explosion with the bat is a more reliable harbinger of autumn than the colorful New England foliage, is unquestionably the star performer, a sultan who relishes, nay, demands 
[continued on page 15] 


Irish women anticipate title bouts 
by Beth Huffman ­Women's Sports Editor 
The name Notre Dame has become synonymous with na­tional recognition in athletic competition. A new group can add its mark to the ranks of successful Irish teams when the women's foil squad of the fencing team competes at the NIWF A championships on April 5, 6, and 7. 
. S~nior captain Karen Lacity, 
JUntors Dodee Carney and Liz Bathon, and freshman Marcella Lansford compose the squad that qualified for the finals by finishing in a tie for first place with Ohio State at the Great Lakes Tournament held on March 10 at Michigan­Dearborn. Wayne State will also compete in. the champion­ships as the top three teams in the tourney qualified for the finals. 
The four foilists who com­piled a 14-3. season record en route to qualifyin~ for the NIWFA championshtps, will be accompanied by their coach, Mike Sullivan. Sullivan, an All-American in sabre competi­tion, is not a new face to fencing crowds; however, it will be the first time Sullivan has coached in such a major event. The squad is rather unsure of exactly the expertise of its 
[continued on page 15] 
T;f'olverines shutout Irish netters 
and men's basketball teams as 
victims of the Wolverines by 
dropping yesterday's match, 
9·0 at the ACC. 
The match was much closer 
than the score actually indi­
cates. The Irish took the 
powerful Wolverines into three 
sets in four of the nine matches, 
including a surprisingly close 
match in the top doubles compe­
tition. 
The Irish tandem of Mark Hoyer and Carlton Harris, after dropping the ftrst set 4-6, won the tle-breaker in the second set to even the match. But Michigan's All-American combo of Jeff Etterbeek and Matt Horwitch battled back to take the deciding set, 6-3. 
"It's hard to say you've played well when you lose, 9·0," said Irish coach Tom Fallon, now in his 23rd year at the helm, "but I think it's fantastic the way our kids hung in there against these guys. Michigan is the defen­ding Big 10 champion, and they are favored to win it again this year. And the Big 10 is as tough in tennis as it is in basketball.'' 
Michigan's conference domi­nation is no coincidence. Top-seeded Etterbeek is cur­rently ranked ftfth in the nation among college players in sin­gles. Freshman teammate Michael Leach is ranked 19th nationally, and was a member of the National Junior Davis Cup team last year. 
The number one singles match proved to be the most exciting of the day. Notre Dame's Hoyer stunned the All-Ameri­can Etterbeek, winning the ftrst set, 6-4. But the Michigan senior came right back to win the second, 6-3, and the third, 6-2. 

The underdog Hoyer managed to hold his serve for the first two games of the third and final set but faltered on his third service and eventually lost the decisive set. 
In the other three set matches, Irish senior captain Mark True­blood fell to Jud Shaufler, 1-6, 6-3, 1-6, in the number four singles, and number six Tom Robison lost to ] ack Neinken, 6-4, 2-6, 2-6. 
The inclement weather forced the match indoors. As a result, it took over five long hours to complete. · 
The Irish will try to get outside and improve on their 4-6 record this weekend when they host the Badgers of Wisconsin on Sunday at 11:00 a.m. Weather providing, the match will be held at the Courtney Tennis Center. Otherwise, it will be back into the fieldhouse for the Irish netters for another long day of tennis. 
MICHIGAN 9, NOTRE DAME 0 
SINGLES 

No.. 1-Etterbeek (UM) def. Hoyer, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2. 
No. 2--Horwitch (UM) def. Harris, 7-6, 6-4. 
No. 3-·Leach (UM) def. Hopwood, 6-1, 6-2. 
No. 4--Shaufler (UM) def. Trueblood, 6-1, 3-6, 6-1. 
No. 5--0sler (UM) def. Hartzell, 6-4, 6-4. No. 6--Neinken (UM) def. Robinson, 4-6, 6-2, 6-2. 
DOUBLES 

No. 1-Etterbeek and Horwitch (UM) def. Hoyer and Harris, 6-4, 6-7, 6-3. No. 2-·Leach and Shaufler (UM) del. Koval and Trueblood, 7-5, 6-3. No. 3--0sler and Nelnken (UM) def. Hopwood and Robinson, 6-2, 6-2. 









