jimmy and Teddy'' -page 9 
Senate denounces member's 'reprehensible' conduct 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The found nothing to indicate his Senate voted overwhelmingly actions were willful. yesterday to denounce Herman "I accept the committee's 
E. Talmadge, one of its most criticism because I believe that 
·senior members, for "repre­senators should be held to hensible" handling of govern­much higher standards than is ment funds. commonplace,' 'Talmadge said. The 81-15 vote culminated ''In the past, I have leveled months of investigation by the heavy criticism at others. I also Senate Ethics Committee and a know how to take it. " brief debate on the Senate Talmadge could face further floor. It was the tirst time the discipline from Democratic Senate has used the word "de· members of the Senate, who 
nounce'' in expressing dis­could strip him of seniority and approval of the actions of one of of his post as chairman of the its members. Agriculture Committee and as Sen. Adlai Stevenson Ill,D-second-ranking Democrat on 
111., chairman of the ethics pan­the Finance Committee. But el, had urged the Senate to such action appeared unlikely. ''discharge a disagreeable Sen. Harrison Schmitt, R­duty" and accept the panel's N.M., the senior Republican on resolution of denunciation the ethics panel, said that against the Georgia Democrat. based on historical precedents 
While Stevenson listed the and constitutional principles, charges against Talmad8e, the he believed Talmadge should Georgia Democrat sat quietly in be censured, not denounced. the Senate chamber with his In the first hour of debate, lawyer. there were no speeches in Tal­
After detailing the charges of madge's defense. But Sens. financial misconduct against ] ohn Stennis, D Miss., long­the senator, Stevenson urged time friend, and Sen. Daniel In­
Castro arrives in New York City
the Senate to "characterize his ouye, D-Hawaii, asked Steven­conduct as reprehensible (and), son a series of questions focus­denounce that conduct .... " ing on the importance of testi­NEW YORK (AP) -Fidel grimed, 13-story red brick free-lance journalist Jon Alpert 
immediately after the vote, mony by Dame! Minchen, Tal­Castro, shielded by 2,000 police building preparing his speech abn~rd the Russian-made jet, Talmadge took _the floor to say madge's former administrative officers and dozens of his own to the Umtec Nations. also said that the possibility of he had made mistakes of negli­aide and chief accuser. guards, spent his first day in The Cuban president, who is meeting with U.S. officials ... .! gence and that he regretted New York City in 19 years to address the General Assem­have nothing against that." them. However, he added that [continued on page 12J apparently holed up in the bly late this morning, was clad The interview was aired on rhe Ethics Committee had Cuban mission in a soot-be-in familiar green fatigues and NBC's "Today" program. 
had a cigar atilt in his mouth as A State Department spokes­he arrived in predawn hours man, who declined to be tdenti­yesterday on a jet flightt from fied, said there were no plans
Class D felony charges Havana. for ~.uch a meeting. 
He was whisked into seclusion Castro also chided the United at the building at 38th Street States for its response to the

Camarda assailant to be tried Monday 
and Lexington A venue, seven disclosure that a Soviet combat 

The I.amb_'s Playe~s Street Theatre ofSan Diego p~·iformed yestPrday in LaFortune. [photo by Rzch DohnngJ 
For UN speech 


l 
blocks from the United Nations. brigade is stationed in Cuba. by Robert M. Powers and a friend Floyd Bee, 19. my chest.'' Noting that it was costing the Of America's decision to step 
l
StaffReporter Four days after the shooting, According to David, the three city tens of thousands of dollars up its presence in the Carib­
David McKinstry went to the approached the house at 902 E to play host to him, Castro bean, he said, ''I l:klieve that 1 
South Bend Police and answer-Corby at about 10 p.m. on the
The alleged assailant of]oe gleefully remarked during his all that is a comedy.'' 
-ed questions concerning the 11th, the same time at which
Camarda, a senior who was flight here: About 2,000 New York City 
shut in his E. Corby St. home on incident. When asked why he Camarda was shot. Bobby "I am not planning to spend a police officers, many helmeted 
Dec. 11, will be tried on a Class made the· statement, David single penny." -and wearing bulletproof vests, 
[continued on PaRe 1.5]
D Felony charge Monday in stated, "I wanted to get it off Castro talking to American joined Secret Service agents connection with the incident. and security guards from Hava­Camarda, who was shot in the na in throwing a protective ring right side of the neck, has around Castro's local head­

2nd in a series
almost fully recovered from the quarters, where he passed his 
injury. He lives in Sorin Hall first day without showing 
and will graduate in December. himself.


Boat People settle in America
Bobby D. McKinstry, 18, It was far below the size of the 9141f2 E. Corby, entered a plea ~ 1, 500-member police detail of guilty yesterday in a prelim­EDITOR'S NOTE--This is the second ofa three refuge~s in the United ~tares, according to Julie that spread out to guard Pope inary hearing to a charge of part sen'es on the dL>placed persons-the ''Boat Holstem refugee co-ordmator for the diocese of John Paul II last week. But it criminal recklessness, which People''. Toda;y 's article looks at the process of Fort Wayne-South Bend. \vas unsurpa<>sed for the co'l­carries a penalty of two to four introduction of the Boat People into Amencan centrated proteu ion it afforded
''The diocese resettles 30-40 a month,'' she 
years in prison. society. Monday's article wzll examine the the bearded Cuban dictator ..
stated, ''in the last week 20 have been resettled
McKintry entered the guilty involvement of the Notre Dame community in Rumors of assassination
here, and with the legislation in Congress
plea after his lawyer plea­local resettlement efforts. threats were rife. Hut Eba
pending, the flow is speeding up."
bargained the charge from a Vearra, an organizer f(>r ,-\lpha
Once here, the family is given over to the care
class C. felony of aggravated Man"beth Moran 66, one of several anti-Com­
of a sponsoring family, who arranges to provide
assault, which carries a maxi­StaffReporter munist groups dedicated ttJ
shelter for them and to acquaint them with 
mum penalty of five years, Castro's overthrows, call them
American cultuure. The United ReligiousWith both fear and anticipation, the refugee
according to ] ohn Krisor, who untrue. · 
Community gives each sponsor a plan of action 
has acted as deputy prosecutor family leaves a plane in Indianapolis Internation­"We don't want anv vio­
for dealing with both the material and emotional 
in the case since April 3. al Airport, where representatives of the Catholic lence," she declared. · ~ 
needs of their new neighbors. In addition to the 
Also dropped was an addition­Charities wait to greet them. Following a The woma.1 said she fought
sponsor, each refugee family is cared by a 
al ch-:trge of Class D felony. night's rest, the refugee family will travel to support group. The support group is made up of wirh Castro in the mountains of ' 1 McKinstry, who was released South Bend by plane, and be placed in the care Cuba during his rise to power in 1 
individuals or families who maintain an active 
on bail April 19, was arrested of the Southeast Asiam task force for resettle­the late 1950's, leaving wh<·n 1
part in the care of the refugee family, b Jt whoment.
over the summer and charged are not their primary sponsor. she learned he was a Commun­1
with involvement in a fencing The resettling efforts in this country are led by ist 
1 
ring, Krisor said. religious-affiliated charitable institutions name­Each member of the support takes a particular Shortly b~fore noon, a half a The evidence against McKin­ly Catholic Charities, Church World Service, and area and endeavors to make sure that the dozen-vehicles, including a the Lutheran Refugee Service. refugee family is well provided for in that area.
stry includes three voluntary black limousine in the center of statements made by the de­Catholic Charities accounts for approximately !continued on page ]) I 1 
(contmued on pagt! 6) 1
51% of the resettlement of all Southeast Asian
fendant; his brother, David, 17 1 1 
I 
1 
1 

<=;(lt10L~~l=J~S~--------+--------------------F-rid_~_,_o_ct_oo_er_1_2_,1_9_79_-_P_~_e_2 
Friday, Och~·ber 12, 1979 
lO am, LECTURE "notker's sequences for ~aster week," prof. calvin bower, u. of n.c., chapel htll, LIBRARY LOUNGE spons: music dept. & theology dept. 
9am-4pm, CONFERENCE south african conference, spons: world hunger coalition, bl.tck cultural arts council, ROOM 117 HAGGAR HAU. 
12:15 
pm SEMINAR "cell separation techniques," thomas 

g. 
pretlo;., II., m.d., u. of alabama-birmingham, GALVIN AUD. • spons: microbiology. 


3:15pm, LECTURE "melodic symmetry in western music," prof. calvin bower, u. of n. nc., 215 CROWLEY HAU. spons: music dept. 
3:30 
pm, SAILING BARBEQUE spons: sailing dug, members and frienrl.s, BOATHOUSE. 

3:30 
pm, COMPUTER MINI-COURSE, "intermediate programming with fortran," james wruck, 115 CCMB • spons: computing center, free of charge. 


4:30 pm, COLLOQUIUM "unfolding of complex ~n~ly~ic foliations with smgulariues,'' prof. tatsuo suwa, u. of llltnots, chicago circle, 226 CCMB" Spons: math dept. 
5:15pm, MASS AND SUPPER BULLA SHED. 
7pm and 8 pm. TA.LK A~D FILM ."the sou.t~ afri.can predicament" . talk, film · south afnca: the nsmg ttde. speaker dr. peter walshe, Spons: whc& black cultural arts council, ROOM117 HAGAR HAU. 
7, 9, 11 pm., FILM "heaven can wait," ENGR. AUD. 
admission $1. 

8 pm, MEETING' "college life," spons: campus crusade for christ, LEWIS HAU REC ROOM. 
8:30 pm, LECTURE "arms control & salt!" w.k.h. panofski, with slac. LIBRARY AUD. open to pubhc. 
9 pm, NAZZ recording artist smokey joe, rich steven son, dan berenato. 
Saturday, October 13, 1979 
9 am-4pm, CONFERENCE OF S. AFRICA. speakers: rev. theo kotze, nd, tim smith, nat'! council of churches, n.y. & south african embassy representative, panel discussion, amnesty int'l presentation, 11·7 HAGGER HAU 
9 am, VOLLEYBAll· st. mary's invitational, ANGELS ATHLETIC FACILITY. 
10 am, CROSS COUNTRY, nd vs. Ioyola, HOME. 
llam, SEMINAR, "religion & the family in colonial america," prof. maris vinovskis & geral moran, u. pf mich. 600 MEM. LIBRARY, spons: ctr. for study of amer. catholicism. · 
12:30 pm, .A.IR FORCE SMOKER' K OF C HAU. 
· 1 pm, BASEBAlL, nd vs spring arbor, doubleheader, JAKE KLINE FlEW. 
1-4pm, POST-LSAT SMOKER, sfons: pre-law society, undergraduates and law faculty wil be present, SENIOR BAR, admission $2/all you can drink. 
2:30pm, FOOTBALL, nd vs air force, AWAY. 
7, 9, 11 pm, FILM, "heaven can wait," spons: student union. ENGR. AUD. $1. 
8 pm, NDISMC THEATRE, "hamlet," 
8 pm, Cqf.(CERT, the phil keaggy and paul clark concert, spons: spmtual rock, STEPAN CENTER, admission $5 in advance, $6 at the door. 
9:30 pm NAZZ, comedy night , various comedians. 
10 pm, MASS, graduate student union mass, celebrant rev. joseph Hater. Spoils: graduate student union, friends and spouses welcome, r!'freshements following, ST. JOSEPH'S HALL. 
Sunday,.October 14, 1979 • 
2-5 pm WORKSHOP, urban plunge, LIBRARY AUD. 
spons: center for experiential learning. 
12:30 pm, FORMATION AND KNIGHTHOOD DEGREES, K OF C HALL, jacket & tie requested. 
6:45-7:45 pm, GENERAL MEETING, spons: cila, LIBRARY LOUNGE. 

Weather 
Variable cloudiness with chanc(' of showers this morning. Mostly cloudy and cool this aftt·rnoon. High today in the upper 40s. Colder with chance of showers or snow flurries tonight. Los in the· mid 30s. Partly cloudy tomorrow high around 50. 
,.....____ . 
'. 

For X-ray technique 

US scientist receives Nobel Prize 
STOCKHOLM• Sweden (AP) -The Nobel. Prize for medicine was awarded yesterday to an American and a Briton who in their separate ways helped develope an X-ray technique, computer-assisted tomography, that enables man to peer more clearly and safely than ever into the body. 
Physicist Allan M. Cormack, 55, o(Tuf~s University in Med­fi,rd, Mass., said he was '·amazed'' to learn that the Royal Caroline Medico-Surgical Institute had selected him for the l979 prize. His co-winner is Godfrey Newbold Hounsfield, 60, a research engineer with the BriLish firm EMI. 
The choke apparently was a surprise to the Institue's Nobel selection committee as well. Informed sources said the com­mittee's recommendation was overridden by the 54 Institute faculty members who made the final choice. 
This unprecedented veto re­porredly was made after a long and heated debate within the Institute. The identity of the committee's choice was not publicly known. 
Cormack and Hounsfield, who for years were unaware of each other's research, will share a record $190,000 award. Cormack is the 53rd U.S. citizen to win the medicine award, which has been dominated by Americans in recent decades. 
Cormack, a native of South Africa, was citied for doing the 
Today's _ 
Que 
Clue for the "Find that Trojan" contest: "North of your body, South o. your mind.'' 
~The Observer_ 
Night Ediior: Ann Monagh­
an Asst. Night Editor: Dave Tho.mas, Steve Swonk 
Copy Editor: Mike Lewis, Mark Rust News Editor: Mike Lewis Editorial La_yout: Ellen Gor­man Features Layout: Sal Granata Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Tina Terlaak, Carol 
Cornwall,  Laura  Vasquez,  
Carol  Shuback,  Micheline  
Kelleher.  
EMT:Micheline  Santello,  
Cindy Grillot  

Proofreader: Dodie Carney 
ND Day Editor: Pasty Camp­
bell SMC Day Editor: Kathy Domanico Ad Design: I3arb Pratt, Flo O'Connell, Chriss Slatt Photographer: Rick Dohring Quest Appearances: Marg· a ret Kruse, Rod Beard, Beth Huffman, Ryan ''Everybody know" Ver Berkmoes, Kich Kluczyk 
The Observer [USPS 581 920[ is published Mondiy through Friday ex­cept during exam and viiCition ptrieds. The Observer is published by tilt students Ill Notre Dame IIIII Saint Miry'1 Cllllgl. Sublcriptiiiii!IIIY Ill purchasld lor S2ll per yur [$11 per llmlltlrl from The Observer. P.O. box 0. Nitre 011111. lndi1na 46551. Secalld clan ~e paid, Notre D11111, In­diana . 
The Observer is 1 member Ill till Associ1tld Prea. All iipildlic:tlln rights 1r1 l'lllflld. 
mathematical analyses that laid the groundwork for the compu­. terized technique, and Houns­field as the "central figure" in 
its practical development. 
Manr in medicine view the 
"CAT' scanning method as a 
revolution equal to the disco­
very of the X-ray itself almost a 
century ago. 
It adds a new dimension to 
traditional X-raying, and 
though in general hospital use 
for only six years, it has become 
an extremely quick, highly ef­
fective diagnostic techmque, 
especially for the brain. 
The CAT method works as 
follows: 

The equipment beams a rota­ting X-ray through a cross section of the body from every angle, and feeds the informa­tion back into a computer that provides a picture of the "slice" of the brain of other organ being examined. 
The computerization pro­vides a more detailed picture of the organ than ever before possible. By looking at succes­sive "slices" of a brain, for example, doctors can "see" a clear _picture o a rumor 0r other orgamc irregularity, rathE; than just the flat and shadowy 
(continued on page 12] 
an 
Sunday Masses 
at 
call)pus 

Sacred Heart Church 
ministry 
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:15a.m. Sunday Rev. Austin Fleming 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Edward Kilmartin, S.J. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
7:15 p.m. Vespers Rev. ' Edward Kilmartin, S.J. 

Speaking of Sports FREE PIZZA 
Join Paul Stauder and Frank LaGrotta every Sunday night for your chance to win a free Noble Roman's pizza. Speaking of Sports is brought to you by The Sound Room and Noble Roman's. 

Sunday Night 9 pm AM 64 



Bridget's 

Friday TGIF Happy Hour 4-7 50'Drinks 2~' Drafts Midnight Special 11:30-12:30 25' Drafts 
Saturday FREE Snacks During the Game 

All Day: Miller Ponys 3 for $1.00 While the last 

MASS followed by
supper 


every
FRIDAY • 

at the 



The Observer Friday,Odooer 12,-1979-page 3 
Not a club or team 


Gymnasts strive for recognition 

by Mary Fran Callahan 
For the past two years an enthusiastic group of Notre Dame gymnasts has desperate­ly attempted to gain recogni­tion. This group cannot be called a club because it has no club status. It is also not a team since it is not sponsored by the university. 
'Dle Athletic Department is reluctant to grant the group club status because this woula preclude department funding. The department claims that their budget is tight. 
However, the group's dedica­tion has been so devout that they have funded meets, hired a coach, and paid all their traveling expenses with their own money. In order to raise additional funds, the gymnasts have turned to football conces­sion stands, carnation sales, program sales, and even the Student Union. 
''There is no good equipment 
at Notre Dame. What ts here is 
almost unsafe," Steve Reifen­
berg, a spokesman for the 
group, commente1. 
'For teaching excellence SM C calls for Maria Pieta nominations 

by Mary Leavitt 
While the Saint Mary's Col­lege campus celebrates its Founders Day today, college administrators have called for nominations for the Maria Pieta A-.vard given annually at the Collee;e to honor excellence in teachmg. · Nominations for the award, geared toward teachers of lower division core courses taken by freshmen and sophomores, are made mainly by students. Qualities which students should consider when making a nom­ination include the teacher~ s 
seriousrress of intellectual in­
quiry, his attitudes toward study, the growth in the quality of his work, the challenge that he presents to students, and his availability to students. 
Sr. Maria Pieta came to Saint Mary's nearly 60 years ago and graduated from the College in 1922. Aside from teaching at Saint Mary's, she was head of the theology department, di­rector of the staff-student pro­gram, dean of students, and vice-president. Mter her re­tirement from teaching and administration, Sr. Maria Pieta ~ecame alumnae-college coord­mator. 
During her years at Saint 

Board of Commisioners to meet this afternoon 
The Notre Dame Government cuss budget aiiocations and the Board of Commissioners will complimentary ticket policy. meet briefly this afternoon to Roche said the board has not 
determine <he agenda for Wed-had the opportunity to debate nesday's meeting with the these issues due to hectic Board of Trustees at 6:00 p.m. schedules with upcoming activi-
Bill Roche, student body ties. president, explained that to-Spectators may attend the day's meeting will last only segment of Wednesday's meet­long enough to schedule the ing covering the controversial agenda for Wednesday. ticket policy. The location of 
At Wednesday's meeting, the meeting has yet to be the commissioners plan to dis-determined. 
Mary's, hundreds of alumnae 
and students sought her out for 
advice, for consolation, or sim­
ply for the joy of talking with 
her. 
Many of them have written in 
praise of her. To quote one, 
"Greatness is defmed in many 
ways. Sr. Maria Pieta defined 
it every day for some 40 years in 
the classroom where she taught 
many things, and in quiet 
conversation where she exemp­
lified beauty, truth, and good­
ness. All who had the pnvilege 
of knowing her are better than 
they could have been other­
wise." 
The award was first given in 
1976. It went to Sr. Cecilia Ann 
Kelly, a professor in the Art 
Department. Since then, the 
award has been presented to 
Dr. Dorothy Feigl (Chemistry), 
Dr. Isis Quinteros (Modern 
Languages), and Dr. Linnea 
Vacca (English). 
On Monday, students will receive nomination sheets in · their mail boxes. Mary Ellen 
[continued on page 4] 

Right to Life 
tO Sp0flS0f 
-
I
I I 
I M
I 
I 
I 
• 





r----------------, B~ruu
I 1\ T;_uht E' J ,;tor~ nd I The month of October is 
I.1 ~ ..0' "'" I.., a I "RespectLife"month. Tohelp
celebrate this observance, "It's
• 1 
a Small World," the second St. 
I A
SS'IS tantS Joseph county Right to Life 
an tory
di 
• g 
items in our many booths. 
Items for sale include needle-I work, ceramic and wood items. 

Meetm 
• h 1 There will also be Christmas 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • I Bazaar, will be held tomorrowI from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. and Sunday from noon until 4 p.m. . ( The bazaar will be at the ro uctton I Knights of Columbus Hall, 815
P d 
North Michigan Street, South1 Bend. 
There will be handmade
I 
Last year, the group incor-nastics team would exist. It's porated itself with Saint Mary's too bad, because we have the gymansts and now jointly utili-i';lterest and we want a competi­zes the SMC facihties. This tlve team very badly." 
"team" owns some impressive-============
accomplishments. 
Last season, they beat two major university varsity teams-­Indiana and Purdue--in away meets. The meets were funded by revenue generated by the gymnasts, themselves. 
The gymnasts are now consid­ering the possibility of taking out a $7,000 loan which could be used to purchase equipment. 
With the equipment, the gym­nasts could then host meets at Saint Mary's. 
''There is great interest in the sport especially with the up­coming Olympics. People at Activities night were asking about home meets," Reifen­berg commented. 
Negotiations with the Athletic Department are also currently pending. "You would think," Reifenberg said, "at such a prestigious school as Notre Dame, that an organized gym-
Book sale to occur on Saturday_ 
Town and Country Shopping Center will once again ·be the site of the annual Book Sale sponsored by the South Bend branch, American Association of University Women. This year's sale is set for tomorrow from 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. in front of the "mini-mall" area of the 'center. 
Records will be on sale for the first time this year, in addition to hardcover books, paperbacks, children's books, and magazines. Prices will range from 10 cents to $1.00. 

Monday Ntg t 6:30 p.tn I decorations, plants, baked
I ' • goods, and refreshments.


·----------------.____________ 
The Observer 
ATTENTION: 
KNIGHTS of 

KoiC 



COLUMBUS
fa FORMATION 
and KNIGHTHOO Degrees will be held Sunday Oct. 14 12:30 pm
K of C Hall 
.M.members who have taken on/;! the 
Aamission Degree are eligible and should attend JACKET & TIE REQUESTED'· 


THE PHIL KEAGGY 
~-~-------------~----­
Friday, October 12, 1979-page 4 
''Whaduyah want, honey'?'' [photo by Rick Dohn'ng] 


AND PAUL CLARK CONCERT 

Phil Keaggy: 'Full Circle', from rock, to dope, to God, to rock. 
-Guitar Players Magazine 
SATURDAY NIGHT Spm ADVANCE TICKETS $5 AT THE DOOR $6 
STEPAN CENTER NOTRE DAME 
TICKETS......Notre Dame Student Union; 
FBI changes policy on agent protniscuity 
WASHINGTON (AP) -FBI Director William H. Webster is liberalizing the bureau's long tradition of harsh punishment for agents whoengagein sexual r~latwnships outside of-mar­nage. , 
The shift means that ah agent involved in a premarital or extramarital relationship n0 longer faces automatic dis­missal from the bureau. 
-In two other areas of personal conduct -homosexuality and marijuana use -Webster has bent the old rules ever so slightly as he develops the bureau's first clear-cut written polices on such matters. 
Though he continues to ban practictng homosexuals from bureau jobs, Webster has asked for the latest scientific data on homosexuality and says he's willing to consider relaxing the rules some years hence. 
As for drug use, Webster says he won't tolerate it in the bureau. But, in one recent instance, he chose not to fire an 
Liturg!cal workshop planned 
Those responsible for planning for Sunday liturgies can find resources, new ideas and sup­port during a workshop offered by the University of Notre Dame Center for Pastoral Lit­urgy next week, Sunday through Thursday. 
Participants can expect to set some real help with own pansh problems, working with people who have expertise and experi­ence. Registration is limited to enable that personal interac­
tion. 1 
The program will begin Sun­day by examining the idea of assembly, of Christians comi~g tog<-ther. The next days wlll focus on the Liturgy of the Word and on the Eucharist, and end by examining the connec­tions between the Eucharist and all other parish activities. 
The "Sunday Eucharist" workshop will be held at Fatima Retreat House on the Notre Dame campus. Those inte­rested may enroll by contacting Bro. James Field, Notre Dame Center for Pastoral Liturgy, Box 81, Notre Dame, IN 46556, or calling the Center at 219/283­8801. 
The center is directed by John Allyn Melloh, S.M. 
. 

agent who smoked marijuana · while in college several years . before -joining the bureau. 
~Instead,· the agent was fined and placed on probation. 
Such changes may seem trivial to bureau outsiders accustomed to the relatively easygoing policies of many private em­ployers. But for the FBI, Webster's appoach represents a remarkable departure from decades ofcrusty conservatism. 

SALT expert speaks ' tpday 

Dr. Wolfgang Panofsky, direc­tor of the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, will discuss "Arms control and SALT" here today . The talk, which is open to the public, will b~.-gin at 
8:30 p.m. in the Memorial Library auditorium. 
A member of the White House General Advisory Committee since 1978, Ranofsky recently authored, Arms Control and SALT II, published by the University of Washington Press. Panofsky has been described as representin~ the mainstream of AmericaQ analy­sis on arms control and nuclear strategy. His book begins with a general overview of the U.S.-Soviet strategic arms issue and gives the details of the new strategic arms limitation treaty with the Soviet Union as disclo­sed last spring. Ratification is now being debated in the U.S. Senate. 
Panofsky's talk is sponsored by the Department of Physics. 



, , , Pieta 

[continued from page 3] 
Klein, freshman advisor, urges students to nominate any teacher whom they feel de­serves this award. 
"We have hacl' a rather poor turnout in the past for this,'' Klein said. "I feel that this is an important award and merits 
attenuon  from  the  students.  
This  is  their  chance  to  be  
heard."  

The nominations should be returned by October 31. The honor is awarded during the Honors Convocation in May. 
The Observer Friday, October 12, 1979-page 5 
Services abound within South Bend 
area 
Editor's Note: This is the final segment ofa senes examining volunteer service organizations on the Notre Dame andSaint Mary's campuses. 
by Kit Bernardi 

SMC/ND volunteer organiza­
tions reach out to the South 
Bend area and beyond to serve 
adolescents and adults in need. 
The last of the volunteer servi­
ces include Upward Bound, the 
Regional Juvenile Corrections 
project, ND/SMC World Hun­
~er Coalition, and Amnesty 
International. 
Upward Bound is primarily concerned with tutoring disad­vantaged hi~h school students in preparauon for college. 
Program Director Roland Smith describes upward Bound's goal as ''providing services the high schools can't provide to every student.'' 
Upward Bound is active dur­ing the summer months and during the school year. 
During the summ~r 00 sru­
dems from the South Bend and Elkart area, levels sophomore through seniors in hi~h school, lived on Notre Dame s campus and attended classes regularly. The students not only receive academic aid but also receive 
counseling  and  career  
guidance.  
During  the  school  year  70  
students  involved  in  Upward  

Bound receive tutoring from thirty-two ND/SMC students. The Upward Bound staff re­cruits its participants from neighboring high schools. 
The Regional Juvenile Cor­rections Project is concerned with aiding boys who live in a group home in South Bend. 
Co-president Kathy Culkowski defined the volumeer service as ''basic tutoring of remedial skills.'' The· program also involves reachin~ the youths "independent ltving skills" which includes training in as­f•:cts such as filling our an application form. 
Secondary programs the Cor­rections Project sponsors in­clude field trips, ou-tdoor recre­arion, and arts and crafts activities. Co-presidents Mary Ellen Woods, Patrick Henahan, and Culkowski schedule the 80 volunteers to visit the group home three nights a week. 
The ND/SMC World Hunger Coalition is a local organization. Assistant Coordinator, Lou Reifschneider outlined the three objectives of the World 
Hunger Coalition.  The World  
Hunger  Coalition  serves  an  
educational role.  

"We seek to inform both campuses about world pover­tY.," explained Reifschneider. The organization raises funds and distributes them to agen­cies and groups which have programs benefiting the im­poverished overseas and in the United Scares. 
The ND/SMC World hunger Coalition promotes community and individual spiritual growth through retreats, masses, and parties for irs 130 members, 
Riefschneider expressed this strive to integrate saying, "We hope to deeply involve the members to promote communi­ty among us." -~.• 
Amnesty International is a world-wide human rights or­ganization that works for pri­soners of conscience. 
Amnesty International is an adoption group. The group is assigned a case of a prisonrr who has not been siven his full ri~hts, such as betng denie-d a fatr trial or some othrr in· justice. 
The organization writes lcut·rs to judges or any person that Llll aid in the release of dw prisoner. Once released, Am­nesty lnrernacional provide-s educational opportunities fi,r the prisoner and ·'carries on a limited relief eftorr," explaint"d 
ND  representaI ive  Tom  
A hearne.  
Amnesry  Imerna1ional  also  

publicizes annual reporrs on human rights. The organiza­tion is presently involved in major campa;gns agains1 unjus1 political tr<."atmt"nt in llw nnul­tries of Argentina and South Africa. 
l1
it...., 
r.it..Q 

Threatens payroll ~ 
Budget bill conference fails 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A House-Senate conference on an emergency funding bill col­lapsed in chaos yesterday, in­creasing the possibility of a payless payday for more than a million military personnel and reduced paychecks for hun­dreds of thousands of govern­ment workers. 
The breakdo~n came shortly after negotiators for the two houses of Congress had agreed on a fra~ile compromise on the biggest tssue holding up the bill -language limiting federal ~unding for abortions. · 
But Senate conferees refused to agree on the lase issue in dis­agreement -the 5. 5 percent pay raise in congressiOnal sala­ries passed by the House. House negottators then back­ed out of the agreement on abortion language, putting the n~gotiations back to the begin­
nmg.  .  
Both  sides  instructed  their  
staffs  to  work overnight  on  a  

short-term stopgap proposal that could head off the impend­ing cutbacks in federal pay· checks and restore funds for some programs already cut off. 
This proposal, which would make no mention of abortion language or of the pay increase proposai, is aimed at providing enough funds to meet next week's federal payroll and at giving the conferees another few days to work out a solution on the emergency bill. 
Actually, the emergency bill itself was intended as a stopgap measure. It would have allowed seve·n Cabinet-level depart­ments and assorted smaller agencies to continue operating until Nov. 20 at the same spending levels used during the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30. 
But It ran into trouble when the house attached its pay raise proposal and strict abortion funding language. 
The legislation was needed because Congress has passed only three of the 13 regular ap­propriations bills that provide fur.ds for those agencies in the new fiscal year. 
Meanwhile, the seven' Cabi­net-level departments were starting to feel the pinch from having to operate for 11 days on funds left over from the pre­vious fiscal year. The Trans­portation and Labor depart­ments already have said their combined 90,000 employees would receive onlv half pay in 
CABINET CO., INC. 

r I I !ILL :0Tf1LLT SOUTH 8Lr-JD. IN 46617 
Let us customize your 
kitchen and 
bathroom. Also 
countertops, book 
cases, room dividers, 
etc .... For more info 
call 287-1151 






their next paychecks. 
Officials in the other big de­partments had said their em­ployee paychecks also would be 
cut  in  half  unless  some  bill  
could  be  passed  before  the  
weekend.  

About 1.6 million · rhtlitary personnel will recieve no pay 
next week unless some meas­sure is approved quickly. 
The affected agencies are the departments of Defense, Agri­culture, Housing and Urban 
Development, Interior, Trans­portati<?n, Labor, and Health, Etlucatton and Welfare. 
Stock price skid slows in ·heavy trading 
NEW YORK (AP) -The stock market's three-day slide stalled yesterday as trading on the New York Stock exchange, al­though still heavy, was off Lonsiderably from Wednes­day's record-setting pace. 
Analysts were cautious in predicting an end to the mar­ket's skid, ascribing the calmihg in the market to a number of internal factors. 
The closely watched Dow Jones industrial average, after plunging 48.29 in the first three days of the week, began the ·day with a slight increase, fell sharply, and recovered to close at 844.62, down 4.70. 
Trading wasn't at the fever pitch that characterized Tues­day's session, when 55.56 mil­lion shares moved on the New York Stock Exchange, or Wed­nesday's session, when a re­cord 81.62 million shares changed hands, but the volume of 47.53 million shares was still heavy. 
Despite the recovery, there were many tales of woe. And at the Merrill Lynch booth 
at Grand Central Terminal, investors gathered to check on their holdmgs. "I want to get ·out of the market,'' said one man. ''But my wife doesn't . So far I'm not winning. My wife bought some stocks three days 
ago. So far she's lost $400." 
William O'Connor, a 39-year­
old computer consultant from 
Toms River, N.J., said the 
value of his stocks had fallen 
from $35,000 to $30,000 in the 
past three days. But O'Connor. 
was undaunted. "I love it," he 
said, "I can afford to buy now. 
And you know stock will come· 
back.'' 
Analyses listed as one of the 
most significant steadying ef­
fects a development that seem­
ed at first glance to be negative. 
IBM, a favorite of investors, 
particularly large ones hke pen­
sions funds and insurance com­
panies, said its earnings for the 
third quarter were dowA from 
last year. 
The news at first did not send 
IBM down further, and many 
[continued on paf!,e 6] · 
, 
! 
r 
,r 
,
,
, 
,r 
,
, 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
~ , ~ 
The Observer Friday, October 12, 1979-page 6 

WANTED: 
Liberal Arts Career Day succeeds 
For SMC Yearbook 
Fourteen months ago, when For those students wishing to Paul R~oolds became the further their education, repre­Placement Speciali"st in the sentatives from graduate and Placement Bureau, he realized MBA schools were also pre-
Pictures of Antostal & Mardi Gras 1979 
that the Liberal Arts students at sent. . 
Notre Dame needed special With pamphlets, brochures, 
assistance in finding jobs. leaflets, and calling cards, the 
Yesterday, 30 representatives representatives answered 
from various career fields questions, and offered hints 
assembled in the ballroom of concerning resumes, major 
LaFortune Student Center for selection, starting salaries, and 
the first annual Liberal Arts what an employer looks for in 
Career Day. prospective employees. 
For four hours, students ex­Robert W addrck, Assistant plored a sampling of careers Dean of the College of Arts and open to liberal arts majors, Letters, supported the Career ranging from Advertising and Day. Waddick said that ap­Prim Media Writing to Volun­proximately 42 percent of the teer Services. graduates in liberal arts schools 
Call Amy 4-1-4260 or 4-1-4319 
She 'found herself 
ensnared 
This Sunday, instead of your 

and entrapped. . . ' 
"usual" place try our famous 
CHAMPAGNE BRUNCH 

The lawsuit filed in Mecklen­burg County Superior Court by Teresa Mackey also claims-she was not paid for the centerfold photography session. The suit accuses the New York-based magazine, its publisher Bob Guccione and art director Hoe Brooks, a photographer, of fraud, and seeks more than $1.6 million ir, damages. 
Attention·~ 




All Long Islonders 
, , , Stocks
Happy Hour 
[continued from page 5)
Senior Bar 
traders took that as a signal that 
4-6 Friday Oci:. 12 
the market might have reached its bottom. Investors began
Beers 3/$1 buying again to push the mar­ket average up. But IBM slipped again to close at $66.625, down $1.125.
~Long Islond Club 
Stock excha ge personnel and brokerage firm representatives will have to· work tomorrow morning to catch up with the week's hectice activity. But trading had slowed enough by 

Registered Nurses 
South &nd Osteopathic Hospital offers you a 
mid-aftermoon yesterday that one broker in Merril Lynch's
rewarding and satisfying career in a warm , 
trading room found time to leaf 
through a magazine. The trading rooms at major
friendly atmosphere conducive to your 
personal and professional growth. 
brokerage houses are where much of Wall Street's business 
South Bend Osteopathic Hospital provides 
in conducted now. The old days when the floor of the New York 
medical, surgical, obstetrical, pediatric, 
Stock Exchange was the center, both leterally and figuratively, 
coronary and intensive care nursing with 
of trading, have given way to the electronic age. Brokers now
emphasis on truly comprehensive and 
conduct most business on the phone and through computers. But the floor of the exhange is 
personalized health care directed to the 
whole person 

still a beehive of activity, ready changing in tempo regardless
For further information 
of the day's volume, and the talk at the exchange is still of
please contact 
winners and losers particularly in a week when the market is as
®PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT volatile as it has been lately. 
========================~ 
A lawyer for the magazine, Joseph Kraft, told the Charlotte Observer the allegation were ''false and without foundation in fact. It is a lie." 
Brooks, the suit charges, "lured" Mackey to Florida and r,romised her she would be 
'Pet of the Year"--a tide worth $150,000, in order to have sex with her during a photography session in August m a hotel in Coconut Grove, near Miami. 
In three days, Mackey'!i suit says, Brooks took 1,728 pic­tures and forced her to have "continuous" sexual reltions with him. 
Mackey, lacking money to get home, "found herself ensnared and entrapped ... " ~~e suit ~on­tends. The petltron clarms Brook promised to pay Mackey $4,000 if the photographs were used for the centerfold, and $3,000 if the photographs were not used. 
Kraft confirmed that Brooks photographed Mackey in Flori­da. He said Brooks denied using wine, cocaine or offers of money. and fameto induceher to have sex with him. 
The Penthouse International general counsel said Brooks had hoped to publish pictures of Mackey, but another photo session would be required. ''Apparently she ~ould rather have a lawsuit than a retake." he said, adding Penthouse paid Mackey's travel costs. 
across the nation last year did not have a job by graduation. 
He blames the students. ''Liberal arts students tend to procrastinate," Waddick said. "They do not realize they 'should go to the interviews offered by the Placement Bureau in the fall. This (Career Day( will acquaint liberal arts students with liberal arts em­ployers ... and give them an rdea of exactly how they can utilize their major." 
After six months of planning by Reynolds and Career Coun­selor Sr. Kathleen Rosswell, the Career Day will become an annual event. Reynolds said the constant flow of students during the four hours was proof of his and Sr. Rosswell's suc­cess in making students aware of various career opportunities open to them. 
The careers chosen to attend were those appearing most frequently on lists submitted by the Placement Bureau, faculty, administrators, and student lia­sions, accoridng to Reynolds. 
The Career Day was geared towards jun.1~Jrs and sophmores, to start them thinking about career possibilities, Reynolds said. 
''If people start thinking earl­ier about what they're going to do once they get out of school, it makes it a lot easier for them and for us," he said. 
• • • Castro 
[continued from page 1] 
the line, swept east from the mission in the direction of U.N. headquarters. Officials at the 
U.N. later said Castro was not in the caravan. 
Pro-and anti-Castro demon­strators were cleared from four­block area around the Cuban missopm They were kept separated on the fringe of...ilie so-called ''frozen zone.'' 
It was Castro's first vist to New York since 1960, 20 months after he took oower in Cuba. His 4-hour speech thenr still is a record for the General Assembly. 
This time, he was scheduled to :speak. 75 minutes to the !52­nation assembly, beginning 
11:30 a.m. Friday. 


Kahn endorses wage,. price guidelines 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Riegle, D-Mich., said Presi­Although conceding the na­dent Carter has failed to pro­tion's 13 percent inflation rate vide the leadership to deal with "stinks," Alfred E. Kahn de­the problems ot tnflations and fended the administration's vol­recession. "Unless new steps untary wage and price guide-. are taken immedicately, I do lines yesterday as "basically not see how public confidence is the right course.'' to be restored,'' he said. 
Kahn, chairman of the Council Riegle asserted that the Fed­on Wage and Price Stabiliry, eral 'Reserve's monetary poli­also endorsed the Federal Re­cies has "effectively shut down serve Board's tight money poli­the construction industry·'' andcies which ha"e sharply pushed unless replaced by a new up lending rates and prompted anti-inflation programt with 60a week of turmoil in Wall Street to 90 days, woura severely harm markets. 
the economy.
Kahn made his remarks in testimony before the Senate­Kahn said ·the only alternative 
Bankingsubcommittee on econ­to the volutary anti-inflation omic stabilization. However, program would be mandatory Sen. Donald W. Riegle, the wage and/rice controls, which 
panel's chairman, charged that he claime could do nothing to the administration's anti-infla­limit energy, housing and food tion program ''ap.pears to me to prices--all key element in the be iru shambles.' nation's inflationary spiral. 
--------~ 

The Observer 
• 





B/USCH 
-'--ttnr 24/1 2 Oz. Cans ---' 
$599 
THE liNG'S BEER 
RAND 

Hamm's·--------------5.79 Blatz-----------------6.09 
Black Label ___________ 5.59 Schlitz---------------5.99
Michelob______________ 7 .49 
Heinekin-------------14.75 Lowenbrau-------~..:---9.59
Olympia.___.:,.__________ , 6.99 
M.ll ' L. ­
1 er s 1te--------~--6.69 Falstaff---------------4.99 Weideman-------------5.09 Gaebel~---------------5.59 ' H arplagcr-------------.2.69 
Guiness Stout----------2.69 
,. 

~254 DIXIEW~1,~~~1~) 
e 2"00 NORTH MAIN ST Store Hour• (ELKHART) Monday thru Thursday 8 a.m.• 10 p.m. PLUS-4 CONVENIENCE STORES: 
Friday and Saturday 8 a.m.· 11 p.m.
E'VE GOT KEGSI 

I --,
'­
:-' ­Friday, October 12, 1979 -page 8




Editorials 
P.O.Box Q 
Basketball lottery 
Dear Editor:. 
,
, 
I am a transfer student. Like many other students, I would
r 
like to cheer for the Irish at r Notre Dame basketball games
r
, this year. Unfortunately, the Admmistration has decided not 
r
, to grant new graduate and r transfer students that oppor­tunity. Instead, it has set aside 200 half-season bleacher tickets 
~ 
for all transfer students and
r 
new graduate students. This 
~ month a lottery for those tickets will determine which students will receive tickets for half of the home games and which students will receive none. . 
This policy is unnecessary. I was told that it exists because the school did not know the names of many new graduate and transfer students when the other tickets were sold last spring. It is strange that this rrtason presented no problems before this year. Certainly a sufficient number of tickets could have been reserved for new transfer and graduate stu­dents. Then if any tickets were not claimed, I seriously doubt that the school would have any difficulty selling them. 
More importantly, this ~olicy is discriminatory. It fails to accord the same privileges to new graduate and transfer stu­dents that other stu~ 1 .:Qtc:; enioy. 
''(l~i!e ar•-:-'lJ~ .•ce lH oast:r<;l __ ,. games Is not a vital part of campus life, in all fairness, one should expect Notre Dame to treat new graduate and transfer
r r students the same as other students.
r 
I hope that other students will express their dissatisfac­tion with this policy and per­suade the Administration to abandon it. 
Dan Smith 

SALT speaker 
Dear Editor: 
''Ruin is the destination toward which all men rush, each pur­suing his own best interest. '' 
---GaTTe/1 Hardin 

Probably no age in man's history affirms Garrett Hardin's appraisal better than our own. And no problem looms so ominously on the horizon of man's future as the spectre of nuclear holocaust. 
Tonight, the Notre Dame community has the special pri­vilege of hearing one of America's foremost proponent~ of disarmament speak. Wolfgan~ Panofsky, educator and physicist, will give a lecture "Arms Control and S.A.L.T. II" at 8:30pm in the Memorial Library Auditorium. It is free of charge. 
Mr. Panofsky's credentials 
are impressive. He's been a 
professor at Stanford since 
1951. Presently, he heads the 
Stanford Linear Accelerator 
Center (SLAC), one of the 
world's finest high energy re­
search facilities. He serves on 
the President's Commission for 
Disarmament. He was named 
California Scientist of the Year 
(1966), and is past president of 
the American Physical Society. 
He maintains active member­
ships in the American Academy 
of Arts and Sciences and the 
Na-tional Academy of Sciences. 
In his most recent book Arms 
Control and Salt II, Panofsky 
assesses the sobering dilemma 
confronting modern man: 
Stockptles of nuclear weapons to_day represent a qualttattvely different situation from that ever faced by man. The total destructive power releasable by nuclear weapons now becomes comparable to cosmic forces.'' 
Ifyou are at all interested in heanng an articulate, con­cerned, and erudite man speak on an issue affecting each one of us and our futures, and the future of civilization arrive early. -' 
And hopefully, we might be affected enough to do some­thing which could stave off the ruin which awaits us a ruin born_ of indifference,' apathy, and Ignorance. 
C.':!:~'.,-t.--;_,l<Jr A. Stewart 
Allocations 
from S.A. 
'make one ill' 
Dear Editor; 
The subject of the recent 
Student Activities allocations is 
enough to make one ill. Why 
should the students have to pay 
additional money for social 
space inside the dorms in which 
they already spend $700 a 
semester to live and . dine? 
Shouldn't such renovations be 
the responsibility of the admin­
istration, since all dorms are 
considered to be part of the 
University's. physical plant? 
We find it absurd the the HPC 
even has to allocate funds in 
order to establish reasonable 
living conditions within the 
dorms. ' 
Furthermore, we find it 
ludicrous that a University with 
an enormously profitable sports 
program cannot find enough 
money to support a few small 
sports "clubs," which must 
also petition funds from SA, 
simply in order to exist. It i~ 
alos disheartening to see a cut 
in the allocations_ to Mardi Qras, an event wh1ch annually gives thousands of dollars to charity, merely because the SA funds are taxed by demands that could in all actuality be met by more appropriate sources of revenue. 
In lieu of the Univ~rsity's inability to recognize its resl'on­sibilities to certain activities with monetary support, we won't be surpnsed if next year the groundskeepers petitio_n f_9r higher-wages through the Stu­dent Activities Fund ... or, the Professor's Tenure Club does 
not or .. rece1ve ..  what  it  asks  for,  
joseph Kenney Harvey Newquist  

1929-30 'team' 
holds 50th 
. 

reuruon 
Dear Editor; 
The 1929-30 Notre Dame­football team, the team coached by Knute Rockne-·-the men who. worked together to earn a National Championshi{' title-­will be holding their 50th reunion the weekend of October 19-21. It seems as though this should be quite an occasiOn for 
these men, bm something has 
put quite a damper on it. 
A banquet is traditiona!!y held Saturday night after the game to honor this team, which has met regularly for years. This year Father Hesburgh will 
Fr. -Hesburgh insensitive? 
Dear Editor: 
I was very ha.{'PY to see Craig McKee's letter m Wednesday's Observer which pointed out some of the oversights in Father Hesburgh's claim that no drastic changes are needed in the Church. Unfortunately our President also made som~ other statements in the same issue of The Observer which display a similar lack of sensi­tivity to the present state of the Roman Catholic Church. 
Father Hesburgh stated that the papacy, "is not a monarchy, but a deeply sriritual and moral act of pastora love.'' Although I agree that the papacy should not be a monarchy, I feel that in the Church today, the Pope is most definitely a monarch: 
The Pope holds all govern­mental authority of the Church in his own person. Acting alone he can transfer bishops or depose them. According to canon law, all bishops are to be elected, but the Pope has the right to intervene in any case, suspend the r~ht of election, and a{'point a bishop of his own choosmg. The recent popes have done this so effl"'ctively and so universally few modern day Carl: .dize that bishops ever were elected, and still should be according to canon law. The most definite sign of monarchy is that the monarch has unlimited power to dispense with the law and act as he wills. 
The more frightening proof of the papal monarchy lies in the fact that the papacy is a lifelong office from which no one can be deposed or impeached. Most Catholics assume that there must be some way to get rid of a po_{'e who is wrong, ineffective, or JUSt plaifil senile. Since some popes 10 the past have either been heretical, immoral, or senile, the fact that no such procedure exists should be deeply disturbin~. This is not only monarchy; It is monarchy in its most absolute form. 
Although Hesburgh claimed that the Pope is a pastor and not a monarch, he showed his true belief in the papal monarchy by a statement quoted in Wednesday's article. In speak­ing about the decision over whether or not women should be ordained, he said, "That is his (John Paul's) responsibility and his judgement.'' Why does this decision rest solely in the hands of John Paul II? Why should this decision not be made by the theologians or the bishops gathered together in a council or even the Church Universal? Because Hesburgh believes that no drastic changes are needed in the Church, and the present order of Church government proclaims that the Pope is a monarch.· 
But then, I do not find this inconsistency too surpnsmg coming from a man who claimed that only an extremely small percentage of us are affected by such issues as sex, abortion, and divorce. 
joseph M. Bender 

be hosting the dinner, which I 1-----------------------------., 
believe is a very nice gesture; 
however, only the men who. 
earned monograms have re-. 
ceived invitations. 
I feel that it is an insult tQ 
these men that after 50 year~ 
the .nen who earned mono~ 
grams should be singled out: 
from those who did not earn 
letters. These men are a team-­
they worked, practiced and 
played together, each as hard 
as the next. They never made 
any distinction between them­
selves as to who had letters and 
who did not, so why should that 
distinction be made now? 
The spirit of Notre Dame is 
greatly exhibited in the spirit of ·football; and the spirit of foot­; ball, so I thought, is the spirit of , a team. I believe that these men should be treated as a 
team, as men who no_t only 
equally shared a Nauonal 
Championship but ~lso men 
wh? shared the trag1c loss of 
the1r beloved coach, Knute 
Rockne· . _ 
Out ~~ respect for. these men 0~ then _50th reun10~,. let us giVe crec_lu where credu Is due-­10 each and every one of them: 
~TinatTerlaak 

~lni&rroilg of ,Notrr ;IJan~r 
)110tll't ~•mr, .:Jn~lana 4&556 
September 28, 1979 
Dear Members of tbe Jlotre Dome Student Body: 
As you know, tbis .reu:'• United Way l'und Drive 1o takins place thia week on campus. As I have in years paat, I would once again ask you to support thio worthwhile cause. 
I think it 11 blportant for everyone to experience the reapona1b111ty to give during the courae of their college educa­tion. 'l'lle United Way l'und Drive 1e one very good way to gain this experience. I find it admirable that the student goal is set at 1~ puticipation rather than a total dollar figure. The emphasis on one-to-one aoUcitation and personal contact exemplifies a commitment to promote reaponlible gtvins and l&Oit year' 1 student participation rate of nearly 7~ vaa by tar the higjleot ever. 
AI you know, the entire Univeroity is involved with the United Way J'!lnd Drive or St. Jooeph County. llotre Demo, aa part of St. Joaeph OC.Unty, 1• asked to pledge an amrual dooat1on t('lo tbe tunc!. Faculty, adllin1otrat1on, otarr, and otudenta partici­pate each year to meet this goal. Your donation to help aupport tba IIWIY charitable organizatioDB in the local oOIIIOI\Inity will be greatly appreciated by many people leas fortunate than oura~lvea. 
Lut year's student reapo111e for United Way wao excellent. Let '1 1ee U' we can't prove that llotre Dame hu the n\Dber one student body in more than juat athletics by toppins J.ut year'• reaponae and reacbins that 1~ participation figure. 
Thanking you for ;your cooperation and wishing you the beat durins t~e year ahead, I om 
Ever d4dl.Y in llotre Dame, L 

(Rev,)Tb~?.:~.~ .~. 
President c.s.c, --D 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The n~ws_ is reponed as accurately and 

-The Observer_ 
as obJc:_Ctively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ................. .Mark Perry represent t~e opiniOn of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features [3ditor.....Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46.5.56 the EdJtonal Board. Commentaries Editonal Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Edt tor .. ............Doug Christian 
opinions and lerters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ...... ... M. Onufrak fhe Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail· Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ........ ~l~Ve Odland ewspaper publish~d by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor .................... Mark Rust Production Manager ...... Tim Sulliva~ f the Uriiversiry of Notre Dame du lac an~ . the free expression of varying News Editor .............. ... Mike Shields Advertising Manager .... :····_Bob R~dy and Saint Mary's College. It does not opmwns on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor .... .Ellen Buddr. Controller........... ......h~vm Manton o~ct'ssarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brass II Circulation Man;g,-:-...../..· ;eg Hedges 

_____________________________..:,__________· •...--­
The Observer -Editorials 
Carter's Wisemen 
Art Buchwald 
A second wtse man said,
WASHiNGTON--Last week "Not very long. I just found the President called his ''wise out about it the other day." ''They could be lined up for 
chow.''
men" to the White House 'to ''How could you find out discuss the Cuban situation. about it the other day ifthey've "On the other hand," been there for 17 years?'' another wise man said, "they
''Wise men,'' he said, ''we "It beats me," the Pr~sident could be lined up to get freshare faced with a very serious said. "That's why I asked you ammunition from the armory.'' 
problem. There are berween 
wise men to come to the White 
. in Cuba and I must do some­The President said, ''I know2,500 and 3,000 Russian troops ''Or for a Soviet USO show.'' 
House.'' thing about it.'' "I .think," said one wise the pictures aren't conclusive, ''Why?'' one of the wise men man, ''your problem is not with but they're all I've got. What asked. the Soviets but with the CIA. If do I do now?" they don't know what is go~ng ''You really got yourself into 
''Because I said I would do on m Cuba how can you dectde a mess," a wise man said.
something about them and 
what to do about it? Don't we
when I took this office I "If I wasn't," said the Presi­
hav,e any intelligence coming
promised never to lie to, the dent, "I wouldn't have called 
out of Havana?"
American people.'' you all here today." ''That's a wise question,''
"But," satd another wise "I have an idea," the wisest
the President said. "The
man who had worked for Presi­of the wise men said. "Why
troops have been there for a
dent Kennedy, "there have don't we invite the Soviet
long time, but the CIA has
been Russian troops in Cuba brigade to visit the United
never. been able to figure out
since ) .F.K. was in office. States as our guests?''
what their mission was.''
Whans the big deal now?'' ''Are you crazy?'' someone
"Don't we keep ·tabs on 
"We don't know what said.
Soviet military activity In 
they're doing there," the Pres-­''No. The Soviets will refuse
Cuba?"

' ident said. ''They could be a to do it and then we can say
"We take photos of ~hem
combat brigade or they could be they blinked.''
from the air," the Prest dent 
Soviet advisors.'' · < "Why will they refuse?"
replied, "but we don't know
''What · difference does it what to make of the pictures. ''Every time Soviet
a com­make?'' another ·wise man Perhaps you wise men could pany visits the United Statesasked. "Surely'we can handle a study them and tell me what they defect. If the Russians areSoviet bri~ade in Cuba.'' 

they mean." too to
"The difference," the Presi­frightened send a 
hundred members of the
dent said, "is that having The wise men looked at the Moscow symphony orchestra torevealed that there is a brigade pictures. 
''How do we know they play -at Lincoln Center, theyin Cuba, I, as President of the are Russians?" a wise man asked. sure as hell aren't going to · United States, must act on this ''The last soldier in line is allow 3,000 soldiers to visitinformation or lose my high doing a pirouette. We know Disney World."
rating in the polls.'' · "How long have you known 
Cuban troops can't do ballet (c] 1979, Los Angeles Times• about these troops, Mr. Presi­dancing.'' Syndicatedent?" 
'The jimmy and Teddy Show ' 
john Ferroli 

When we turned on our TV sets to witness . sive coverage of Kennedy's thappaquiccick Jimmy Cart~r's speech to the nation in July, we blunder, the media has made politicians more saw the President sporting clenched fists and an conscious of their image than ever. 
invigorated eye --his new image. Carter's The fact remains, however, that the U.S. is speech, althout centering on the national experiencing difficult times. The inflation arid ''crisis of confidence'', initiated the rise of the energy dilemmas affect us all, and logically we current theme in Presidentia,l · politics the should be looking for the man with the most ''crisis of leadership.'' Carter sends an u~usuaJ reasonable answers, or, at least, promises. But amount of time working on his image as a all we can find are political images. We find leader, while the press and others have deemed candidates who are willing to achieve the Teddy Kennedy a 'natural' leader. Presidency by citing such relevant issues as T~ddy's marria,ge _separation, Jimmy's brother What do Carter and Kennedy have to offer as Btlly, and Jerry s L~nda. FDR overshadowed his leaders? Simply their images. Franklin D. victory-by-image by pushing through innovative Roosevelt, one of our most successful leaders, and effective legislation. Carter's plans have offered the same thing ot voters in the early been decidedly ineffective, and Kennedy's thirties. Herbert Hoover, while earnestly "pro~ram" seems to lack any new ideas, excei?t engaged in a battle against the Depression, for his pe~ nati?nal heal_th plan. The problem ts ~nfortunately had a gloomy, reticent personal­that our mflauonary times demand st'ending tty. It wasn't FDR's insightful legislative cuts, not boosts, and Teddy wouldn't dare slice program which won him the 1932 election --he military funds with the Soviets parked in Cuba. didn't like to talk specifics--it was his smile and Obviously, the political system is a bit more byoyant optimism. Roosevelt had a superb complicated than this. Carter's inneffective­political ima~e; Hoover was a zero. . ness, for instance, is partly due to highly 
If the polttics of 1980 is ever termed ''The individualistic Congressmen who frequently Jimmy and Teddy Show," the more intelligent scorn party leaders. The point is that while the will realize that ''show'' is the key word. In view American people are frantic over the price of of Carter's legislative record, it's apparent that food and home heating oil, politicians seem to be he is unable to provide the U.S. with any more concernec;l with their media images than substantive leadership. Kennedy, although an the fundamental issues. able senator, is mainly considered to be a great If the problems of today are as insoluble as Presidential prospect because his elder brothers they seem, and ifthe top Presidential candidates were great leaders. Is this the way we judge the subscribe to the same legislative approaches to quality of our politicians? Carter and Kennedy them, then they're really wasting a lot of their have nearly identical platforms, but that's not time with image-building. FDR won with his what seems to matter anymore. Most smile and not his platform because no one could Americans will vote in a president with the best compete with his image. But with Carter and public image, and the two most prominent Kennedy embroiled in a subtle yet strenuous candidates for the 1980 election aim to give the battle of who-looks-best, they're sure to have people what they want. equally appealing images at election time. If 
The media is certainly deserving ofpart of the Jimmy parts his hair down-the-middle and blam~. Fierce competition among newspapers Teddy she_lves his "granny" glasses, we who and networks has bred a great deal of are searchmg for a leader 10 such men, will be sensationalism in the mass media. With candid perplexed. What will be our criteria for choice of photos of Carter's jogging collapse and exten-leadership then? 
Friday, Octol>ei 12, 1979-page 9 
..




Viewpoint 
Women in the Priesthood 
When asked to comment on· the topic of women in the priesthood, William G. Storey, professor of theology, stated, "I't' · would be a historical and theological absurdity to go _on using the argument 

:that we can't do it because we have never done it. Many of the most important developments with Catholicism did not exist m earlier times. That did not impede their development when the time was ripe. The emancipation of women i::. a fact ofour age. It would be nice to have it happen in the Church--earlier rather than later.'' 
Junior hi~tory ~ajor Bob Ellermeyer remarks, There IS really no theological or scriptural reason why women should not be ordained to the priesthood, but I don't think one can dismiss tradition that ~asily; it plays an equally important role m the development of what the official teaching authority says in the Church. Further, I don't think the Catholic Church is p~ychologically prepared for this drasttc change. maybe women priests will be the next breath of fresh atr that the ~~ly Spirit will impart to His Church, but 1t ts a change that will come about in God's own good time." 
Government-theology major Patty Hac­kett: "To my knowledge, there is no scriptural evidence against the ordination 

. of women.. Rather, 
the tradition of the Church and supposed difficulty in seeing the image of Christ in a woman seem to be the basis for the Church's opposition. I would like to suggest two thought. First, tradition ia a very real aspect of the institutional church. Howr;ver, it should not be allowed to stagnate and inhibit necessary growth if its basis is purely social. Second, I would suggest that both men and women are made tn the image of God, and the idea tha Christ's maleness is more significan than His humanness is absurd. To eternally forbid the ordina­tion of women is not only unjust, it is a hindrance to our continuing effort of realizing all that the love of the Incarna­tion of Christ implies." 
Associate Professor of Theology Edward D.-O'Connor, C.S.C., comments, " ,all available indication, it appears 
1

Jesus intended the officeof priesthood 1be exercised only by men. Theologians ,may theorize about the reasons for this, ,but the Church is endeavoring simply to ,follow the lead of Our Lord. In any case, ,its policy in no way suggests that women ,are less holy or less of the priesthood. Neither does this policy close off their approach to God. With actually counting ~ heads, I have the st1 ong impression that more women than men have 

l ~ 
cailonized by the Church, which somethinf of its appreciation of them." 
Bob Bernockie, graduate student of theology, states, ''I'm empathetic with those women who firmly and reverently evoke the likelihood for admission into priesthood. (::urrent developments, how­ever, are not hastily synthesized into centuries of tradition. So patience, hoJ?e-filled compliance and a better articulated position are necessary. If the 
-Church assigns equal value and dignity to all people, the exclusion of women indicates a pronounced gap in the di';gn. And this is the cleavage that should be subsequently prohibited. 
Sr. Marion Ruidl is the Administrator of the Student Health Center. "There is an appointed time for everything. 'This is not that time. But in the meantime it is i~portant to realize that the pries;hood w!IJ not change anyone's relationship wtth God. That is available for everyone. w·e. are free, and we can have the depth oi the relationship with God, regardless of our ministry. God created me woman, and my ministry is unique to a woman. I certainly do not consider it to be less importance than the priesthood; men simply have a different minstry.'' 




~ 
, r r , 
r 
r 
r r r r 
'r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
,r 
r r r 
r 
r 
,r ,r 
,
, 
~ 
r 
I ~ ,, 
r 
~ 
! 
,r 
r
,
,
, 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r r 
r 
r r r 
r 
I 
r 
r r 
r 




Features 
Friday, October 12, 1979 -page 10 
lETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 
Chips That Pass In The Night 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
The gift--a silver rose in a silver vase--came on a day when it wasn't expected. On his birthday, he ~ight have expected she would send rum a card; or sometimes at Christmas, she gave him handkerchiefs. But now, his birthday was two weeks past, and it was nearly three months until the holiday. Yet she sent him this expensive present from a Fifth Avenue store; the only explanation was a note that said: "You've always wanted to get a package from Tiffany's. Please enjoy my little surprise.'' 
He remembered the day they_ had talked about Tiffany's. "Shopping there," he explained, "is a ntual requiring at least three visits. The first time! you g.o in to look . things over: pncmg diamonds, trytng on watches, examining patterns on the silverware, finding out what you can really afford." 
''Mostly sightseeing?'' she said. 
"Shopping with the eyes?" 

"In Tiffany's," he said, "avoid having the ap,Pearance of casing the joint, or r.ou ll get arrested. Avoid looking like a tourist, or you'll be treated with contempt. 
"I understand,", she said. "I won't gape at the jewels." 
On the second visit,'' he said, "You begin conversations with the clerks, at the counters ofyour choice. At this time, you can make your selection, indicating whether you are using cash or credit, completing the over­tures of a purchase. Then, at the final moment, announce that you're going to think it over." 
"It's probably a psychological ploy to make the salesperson respect you," she said. 
"It does humble them," he agreed, "but mostly you're testing yourself. Are you sad, or glad, to be leaving the store empty-hand<~d? Are you 
jealous of other customers looking at 
the same gift? Are you anxious to 
rush back, and say 'Wrap it up,' 
before vulgar folk have carried it off 
as their own?" 
She shuddered at the thought of the 
right gift in the wrong hands. 
"Finally,'' he said, "on a visit no sooner than the third, you buy your gift at Tiffany's. It is registered in your name, gift-wrapped in blue paper, and handed to you in a Tiffany-blue shopping ba~. You have joined the great traditton of cus­tomers who shop on Fifth Avenue, at the most expensive store in New York." 
"It probably makes you feel very holy," she said, "like the day you were enrolled in the scapular soc­iety." 
"Yes," he said, only half-jokingly, "gift-buying at Tiffany's is the last of the religious e?'p_eriences." 
Now he had his own gift from Tiffany's; someone, for the first time, had shopped there for him. She had always used roses to tell him thoughts that were too intimate for words. Red rosed were for love, yellow roses were for friendship, white roses spoke of innocence. A silver rose was a language he could not understand; it chilled him with its coldness, like an artificial wreath in a mort11arv. 
"She's holding on," he thought. Tiffany's was such a S{>eCiat exper­ience that reminding hun of it was like holding a gun to his head. They had looked at diamonds in Tiffany's window. 
"If you're seriously buying dia­monds," he said, "you should make an appointment. They advise you what to get." 
"A chip," she said, "would do just fme; something so smal~ · they wouldn't bother to sweep it U{> so 
inexpensive we could do busmess 
with the office boy." 
"Bigger than that,'' he said. 
''Tiffany's doesn't deal in chips that 
pass in the night. Maybe someday 
they'll have a clearance sale." 
They both knew Tiffany's doesn't 
have clearance sales; but after that, 
they always pretended to be waiting 
for a mark-aown sales on Tiffany 
diamonds, when they would son 
through the ring trays until they 
found a rock that was shopworn but 
suitable. Sometimes at the ends of 
evenings, she would sigh, and lean her head on his shoulder. When he investigated the sigh, she would answer that she had been dreaming of chips that pass in the night. 
"She's holding on,'' he thought, "but she's doing so expensively. Ye t flowers always seem tacky, if they're not the real thing." Tiffany's could never really be tacky, in his private judgment; to say that Tif­fany's was tacky would be like saying that the GosJ:>els are sentimental. It's no sense in lying to yourself, out of pride, about the truths that make men free. 
"Maybe if I call her," he thought, 
"I can understand if she's telling me 
something.'' 
In New York, she answered the 
phone right away. Her voice stirred 
him with an old regret; yet regret has 
its seasons, and in the garden of their 
hopes, all flowers were dead. 
"I got the flower," he said, "the silver rose from Tiffany's." "Oh, yes," she said, "I tho~ght you might have it by now." 
"How is Tiffany's?" he said. "Is 
crystal ware still on_the fourth floor?'' 
"I would imagine so," she said. "I 
really don't know." 
"I thought of you shopping there,'' he said, "but I suppose everyone . shops at Tiffany's 10 a different way.··· 
"I could never afford Tiffany's,'' she said. ''I bought your little gift at a Hallmark shop." 
"Oh," he said. He hadn't realized that disappointment could hurt so much. 
''The wrappings came off a gift from a party at the office," she said. "I thought of you when I saw it." 
"It was kind of you to remember." he said. "I got you the flower so I could use 
the paper," she said. "A trip down memory lane, eh, what?" "Like chips that pass in the night?" he said. 
"I knew there was some nice reason you called," she said. "I hope we can always keep alive the past like this." 
He hung up. It was a lifeless flower she had sent him, a symbol of all their past that was dead. It wasn't even an expensive flo.-.rer, just some­thing that was cheap off of Hall­mark's shelf. 
The rose was no fine gift; the real gift was the pain she caused him; pain tells us nerve ends are very much alive. "Everything at Tiffany's is precious," he thought, even the girls who stand with their noses pressed against the windows, looking at ~itter. E~en y~ur , fllemories of sue . girls lS precious. 
"I wonder," he thought, "if the clerks at Tiffany's ever look out the windows, wishmg they could keep the memory of a girl's face~ as pink and white as the colors of roses?'' 
The gift came on a day when it was least expected, more valuable than silver, more priceless than Tiffany' s-­it was a gift of roses, and he would keep them forever. 
Saint-Edward's Hall -Fifty Years ofDomers 
Michael J. Heilman and Bill McGurn 
Where the hell is St. Edward's Hall? 
summer workmen qUickly converted the old school 
This is an oft-repeated question that most of the into an undergraduate dorm, and the results of this 
residents of the hall have to hear throughout their haste can still be seen. Murals were painted over or college days. St Edward's, for the information of destroyed, the staircases were removed, and much 
many nonresidents, is neatly tucked away on the of i~s charm was lost, cynics say, never to appearNorth Quad in the very shadow of the Golden Dome. 
agam.

Despite what the Sorin people tell you, St. Edward's 
In the ensuing years, St. Ed's served as a is the oldest building on campus used to house 
sophomore hall, rumor has it, for those sophomores 
students. Built in 1882, it has undergone a great with the lowest GPA's. With a unique dedication to 'I many changes. With a population of 135 students it hallowed tradition, sophomores over the years have :j is one of the smallest halls on campus. supported this rumor with their own GPA's. When 
i. Fe. Sorin originally built the hall to house his the-military took over Notre Dame during the Second 
•1 "minums," the university's grade schoolers. Sorin, World War, St. Ed's had the "honor" of being one a harsh taskmaster and shrewd businessman, was 
of the two dorms allowed to retain its civilian status . 
very attached to the minums, and lavished great care What did the army know? 
.l 
and affectation on them. He called St. Ed's The Perhaps they had at one time studied the back
i 

Palace for my Princes.'' With a wrought iron annex, which still survives today, acheiving a certain
-I 
srairc.tses, large murals, and outdoor park (complete notoriety among hall members for its concave floors 
with lountains), St. Ed's had a much different and general dilapidation. university officials denyreputation in those days. The minums also enjoyed the allegations of architecture students that the the considerable luxuries of running water, lights, annex was built to "old the rest of the dorm, but no 
along with close proximity to both the dining hall and one has dared to take it down and discover the truth. 
the infirmary. 

Although St. Edward's has its share of famous 
In 1888, an annex was built on the present site of alumni, current residents, rather than live on the 
Zahm Hall. This housed the minum's gymnasium, past l~urels of a few c~lebrities. prefer to think of roller skating rink, handball courts, library, basket­themselves as the celebrities of tommorrow. 
ball court and armory. The armory was the training This weekend, St. Edward's celegrates its Fiftieth 
grounds for future ND Security Officers --"Sorin's Anniversary as an undergraduate dorm. Various Cadets" --and each minum was expected to people from the halls' illustrious past will atte~d the 
participate in the drills. 

fesuvities this weekend, which mcludes an m-hall 
The university boasted that St. Edward's was "a 
semi-formal on Saturday with each section repre­complete school within itself,'' and indeed it was. senting a decade of the hall's history. Sunday--St.Fr. Mario Pedi, the current rector, believes that the 
Edward's Day--will feature an outdoor Mass, a hall 
grade school tradition is strong within the hall, and meal, and a talk by Prof. Thomas J. Schler.eth on the at rimes he cah be heard to say, " ... those ---damn history of the hall. Following the talk, residents and kids are at it again." former residents will be around to trade anecdotes Sorin's cradle-to-grave concept of education was about hall life. After ninety-rwo Indiana winters and not shared by later presidents, and the minums were Photos: Courtesy Thomas]. Schlereth Collection fifty years of student occupation, it is highly doubtful 
phased out by the spring of 1929. During the that there will be many more such ce!ebrations. 
.-·~.--­
•.
.. 111 t .. . 4 • ... ·"'. 
-----------~------:~_.-, 
-~ 
·­


Features 
Friday, October 12, 1979·-page'.11 
Brian-Just Another Guy 
Bruce Oakely 
·Blasphemy. Sacrilege. Monty Python's The l.Jje of The conduding hymn, that is to say -song, indivicluals-save for one small voice, who claims not Bn... Somehow these terms have developed a "You've Got to Look at the Bright Side of Life," 10 
to be different at all. This is a classroom where thecenain synonyrriirr in the minds of many. some ways recalls "It's All for the Best" from students assure the teacher they know what he'sOfficials of vari()us churches have mndemned the Godspell But the song, sung at Brian's crucifixion, talking about, .but haven't really got the slightest bit latest P)·rhon effort for irs supposedly irreVt'rent look also tells us that "Life's a p1cce of shit, when you of understandmg.
at religion. But Brian is a secular film -rlw think of it;" yet it asks us to look at the bright side. 
. T~t:re are a few other nic~ touches: Brian, theirreverence is directed toward men, nor doctrirws. If thought tells us that life is absurd, only an act .of 
tllegltlmate son of the Roman Naughtius MaximusThe last this reviewer heard, mockerv of men is faith can make life worthwhile. 
calls his father a bastard; Reggie 0ohn Cleese)'comedy, not blasphemy. · Even if life is ultimately worthwhile, it's still a lot leader of the terrorist do-nothing group, the People ~ The film begins with a scene familiar to Christians 
offun trying to makt· it through each day. Authority 
Front of Judea, says the group won't be black­-th~ men bnng gifts ro the mother of a new-born 
is everywhere. Church officials, Romans, revolu­
mailed; even the name People's From itself proves child lying in a manger. But then something tionary leaders, mothers and lovers all afflict Brian. 
to be ironic, for the group really is just a front-therecompletely different happens. The-:. men ·take 
Each tries to pull Brian in a differem direction, 
is no action behind their words. 
back their gifts. abuse the mother an·d proceed to the 
without ever gtving a sound explanation for their
stable next door where Mary and Joseph hail the Monty Python's Life of Brian considers a wide
efforts. 

binh of Christ. range of contemporary topics -the meaning of love,
'Authority is brought down to a third grade level:
From that moment, it is quire clear that "The L1je the nature of one man's right to rule another, the
Michael Palin is a hare-lipped Pontius Pilate who
ofBrian." directed by Terry Jones (who also plays stupidity of prejudice and blind adherence to
can't understand why his centurions laugh about his 
Brian's mother) and starrring Graham Chapman in tradition, the existence of UFO's, the literal and
best friend, the lisptng Biggus Dickus (Chapman),
rhe.{itle role (he plays L~{e), has absolutely nothing sr.mbolic approaches to the Bible, and of course the
and tries to make them stop. John Cleese_plays a 
. to do with reltgion. silliness ofanyone's attempt to talk intelligently on
centurion who discovers Bnan writing graffiti on a
Terry Gilliam, Python's animatQC and the only any subject, including films. 
wall in Larin. Rather than arresting him, Cleese
American member of the group, said in a recent Anyway, the point is that Ltfe of Brian is funny
corrects his grammar and makes him write "Romans
magazine interview that ''Brian'' is !l srory about and very moralistic, but never blasphemous. As Eric
go home" in correct Latin one hundrt·d times on the
"suburban England. cleverly disguised as a Biblical Idle,._ who sings the concluding hymn (er, song),
wall.

epic with expensive sets and costumes." remarked about the group's research for the film: 
The real focus of Bn'.zn is the arbitrary nature of And Brian, just after revealing himself in a special ''None of us came back with material about Christ authoritv, the ~ullibilirv of mankind and the · way, in his first major public sermon, tells all) udea himself. There is nothing particularly funny or a~surdiiy of man s b~lief'rhar his intellect can lead that they must be indiv1duals, letting nothing and no mockable about what He sa1d." htm to understandmg. Perhaps the ulnmate one sway them from the dictates of their conscien­Thank God Brian was not Christ. message here is rhat one must have faith. ces. In unison, a multitude of Judeans claim to be Amen. 
What~ All This Then? 
Gerard Curtin 
Apocalypse Now at 1:30, 4:15, t:oo
CINEMA ON CAMPUS 
and 9:45. The Scottsdale Theater. Heaven Can Wait at 7, 9, 11 on The long awaited film produced and Friday and Saturday, Oct. 12 & 13. directed by Francis Ford Coppola set Engineerin~ Auditorium. A quaner­during the era of the VietNam War in back's untimely demise and the which a man is caught between his 
efforts of his soul to come back to 
civilization and savagery. Starring Earth are the focus of this comedy. 
Marlon Brando, Robert Duvall, and Starring Warren Beatty, Julie 
Martin Sheen. Christie, and Dyan Cannon. 10 at 1:25, 3:25, 5:30, 7:45, 10:00. 
University Park I. A comedy about a Monday, Oct. 15 at Washington Hall. 
M. Hulot's Holiday at 7:30, on 
man who has an affair with his dream (ND/SMC Film Series) Thts French 
girl. .. an 11 on a scale of 10. Starring film centers on the absurdities of life ] ulie Andrews and Dudley Moore. 
by the sea. North Dallas Forty at 2:15,4:50, 7:25, Death Wish at 7, 9, 11 on Tuesday and 9:40 University Park II. An aging ~nd. Wednesday, Oct. 16 and 27. pro football player must learn to 
C:harles Bronson stars in this fi.lm as a 
adjust to the end ofhis career and life New York businessman who becomes beyond playing the field. Starring a one man vigilante force after his 
Nick Nolte, Mac Davis, and Charles wife dies and his daughter is turned 
Durning. catatonic as a result of an attack by 
The Seduction ofjoe Tynan at 2:15, muggers. With Hope Lange. · 4:45, 7:10, and 9:20. University Park The Third Man at 7:30 on Thursday, III. Political power, pressure and Oct. 18. Washington Hall. A chiller ambition take their toll on a politician that ''would make Hitchcock proud,'' and his life. Starring Alan Aida, takes place in postwar Vienna when a Barbara Harris, and Meryl Streep. writer arrives to join an old friend The Deer Hunter at 2:00, 5:15, and who 'Seems to have met with an 8:30. Town and Country I. A Viet accident-· or has he? Starring Joseph Nam era story concerning the effects a small steel town. With Roben Notre Dame Piano Tn'o at 8:15 on Cotten and Orson Welles. of the war on a group of friends from DeNiro. Wednesday, October 17. Library 
The Muppet Movie at 1:30, 3:30, Auditorium. CINEMA --OFF CA tfPUS 5:30, 7:30, and 9:30. Town and Life of Brian at 7:30, 9:30 Forum Country II. A heartwarming and 
TELEVISION (PBS channel 34)Theater I. Another zany movie by the amusing story populated with Jim Saturday, October 13 at 8:00.
members of the Monty Python group, Henson's muppets, this ftlm traces 
''Bleacher Bums, '' a comedy about a
this time about the life of an ill-fated the efforts of Kermit the frog, Fozzie familiar American theme ... baseball. 
young man at the time of Christ. Bear, and others on their way to But, the action of the show does notRocky II at 6:45, 9:15 Forum Theater California in search of fame and take place on the field, but in the
• II. The real world comes crashing fortune. Cameos by: Madeline bleacher.
down upon Rocky, and he must cope Kahn, Steve Martin, Bob Hope, and Monday, October 15 at 7:00. "Livewith the realities of success, and Edgar Bergen (to whom Henson 
from Lincoln Center. " The first show 
learn how to share his life with the dedicated the movie). 
of the 1979-80 season is a concert bywoman he loves. Starring Sylvester Dame Joan Sutherland and MarilynStallone and Talia Shire. With PERFORMANCE ·-ON CAMPUS Horne which includes duets fromBurgess Meredith. -Hamlet, an 8:00 on Friday and "Norma" and "The Tales ofAnimal. House at7:15, 9:30 Forum Saturday, October 12 & 13. 
Hoffman" as well as arias by Handel,Theater III. The crazy antics of Washington Hall. Shakespeare's tra­Verdi, and Vivaldi, among others.
fraternity brothers at a small Mid­gedy of old Denmark comes to the (simulcast over WSND/FM at 88.9
western college c. 1962 are the focus Notre Dame stage. With guest artist mHz.)
of this wildly successful comedy. Lance Davis. Starring John Belushi, Tim Concert ... Phil Keaggy and Paul Matheson, Stephen Furst. With Clark at 8:00 on Saturday, October 
AT VEGETABLE BUDDIES:
Donald Sutherland. 13. Stepan Center. Two guitarists Friday and Saturday, October 12 andWhen a Stranger Calls at 7:30 and lend. their personal interpretations to 13 at 9:00, Muddy Waters. The9:30 River Park Theater. A horror mus1c. 
legendary j'father of the blues"film that reveals to us that which Notre Dame Orchestra at 8:15 on performs die blues as only he can.
baby sitters fear most (no extension Tu~sday, October 16. Library Audi­phone?). tonum. 


._________________________ 
-----....---------------~------------------------­
, 
The Observer Friday, October 12, 1979 -page 12 
-· 
• • CAT
I ­

[continued from page 2]1 
silhouette of normal X-raying. 
With CAT, doctors in a matter of seconds can detect tumors that might have eluded them in the past, when they employed pamful and risky X-ray methods that use air or colored fluid to put better contrast into the plates. 
"It is no exaggeration to state that no other method within X-ray diagnostics within such a short penod of time has led to such remarkable ad­vances in research and in a multitude of applications as comP,uter-assisted tomo~ra­phy, ' the Caroline Insutute said in its citation. 
Cormack, educated at the University of Cape Town and Cambridge, moved to the Uni­ted States in 1956 and became a 
U.S. citizen 10 years later. He published his ahalysis of the mathematical problem in 1963­64. 
Hounsfield has worked for EM!, an electronics ftrm that manufactures medical equip­ment but is known best as a producer of Beades' and other record albums, since the early 1950s. He was an early pioneer in development of large solid-state computers, and his work on automatic pattern recognition put him onto the idea of the CAT. 
He put in a CAT patent application in 1968, but suffici­ently sophisticated computers did not exist.for its practical use 
until 1972· 
As a result of the CAT break-through, "we have al­most eliminated the old, painful methods in my department down from 900 to dozen annual­ly," said Prof. Torghy Greitz, a hospital neurosurgeon and member of the Caroline Insti­tute. One Institute member explained that, in one instance, the method has been used to prove that alcoholism leads to brain damage. 
The cost of the equipment i~ high, about $1 mtllion. In Sweden, there are only about 20 in use, lwt in the United States there are more than 1,300. 
Besides the brain, the CAT scanner can provide strikingly clear pictures of such organs as the pancreas, liver and ktdneys, Grettz said. The radiatton dosage is no stronger than in normal X-raying. 
"There's a good deal of luck involved in winning a Nobel Prize," Cormack said at his home in Winchester, Mass. He 
said his CAT work was "rather a, sidelight'' and was conducted alone. "I've always been in my little ivory tower." 
The medicine award was the first of the six annual Nobel prizes to be announced. The physics, chemistry, and econo­mics prizes will be awarded next week, and the literature and peace prizes in the days or weeks following. Prestdent Carter has been nominated for the peace prize. Last year six of 
the nine laureates were Ameri­'cans. 
'lisa, please come home. ' 

Mother experiences nightmare 

PEKING (AP) -Calling for an end to "warlords," 2500 uni­versity students and teachers boycotted classes Thursday to dramatize demands that the army vaciue their campus. 
Students said they would con­tinue the boycott at People's University, occupied by army troops smce 1972, until the soldters "give us back our land," said Ochen Chich Chiang, 26, an english teacher. 
The boycott was one of two protests by students criticized what they called slum-like liv­ing and studying conditions and threatened to strike next Mon­day if university officials do not agree to campus improve­ments. 
"We want soldiers of the people -not warlords,'' said a banner strung outside the gates of Peoples's University, occupied by China's second artillery force since 1972, when the school was closed. -The­army occupied many campuses throughout China and closed many schools during the last decade. 
The People's University was re-opened last year and the 
army was to have left by August 
1978. But the soldiers are 
reluctant to leave because of 
he shortage of living space in 
the capital. 
"We want officials to see our 
dormitories and kitchens 
would they dare bathe in our 
bathrooms?'' said a poster at 
the nenrby Peking Univers~ty 
campus. 
Netther protest was reported 
by China's official medta nor 
have Chinese leaders com­
mented publicly on the dis­
putes. 
The boycott at People's Uni­versity followed a two-hour sit­down protest by 2,000 students Wednesday in front if the or­wate gate at Chungnanhai, the entrance to Communist Party and government offices. The sit-in, which drew 1,000 onlook­ers, was the largest such pro­test of the year at government headquarters. "' 
Students said Chinese offi­cials ignored their demands that army troops be removed from the two-thirds of the cam­pus they are said to still occupy. 

MICHIGAN CJJY• " Ind. (AP) ­) uanita Allen has endured the nightmare most mothers fear but never have to ex­perience. One of her children is missing and another is dead. Mrs. Allen has a message for her 16-year-old daughter, wher­ever she may be, "Lisa, please come home. Your sister is dead. We love you and need 
you here very much.'' 
Until three years ago, family members say, Lisa was a bright, thoughtful young girl. Then she met a older man, got involved with a different crowd and became a discipline problem. She ran away with that man last october, when she was 15 and he was 20. 
In the pre-dawn darkness Sun­
' Talmadge
' ' 

[continued from pag!! 1] 
Minchew, who has been sen­tenced to serve four months in prison on charges similar to those made agamst Talmadge, has said he gave Talmadge cash from a secret bank ac­count which included campaign contributions and false Senate expense funds. 
Stevenson said the committee found Talmadge had failed to report more than $10,000 in campaign contributions, but it did not find that he personally benefitted from the illegal con­version of the funds. 
Talmadge, who is running for re-election for a fifth Senate term, has steadfastly main­tained his innocence of any wrongdoing. 
A move by Schmitt to recom­mend that Talmadge be cen­sured was rejected. Censure has historically been the tough­est penalty, short of expulsion, that the Senate could impose. 
Seven other senators, in­cluding Thomas Dodd, a Con­necticut Democrat, have been censured. Dodd was censured in 1967. 
day, 13-year-old Mach ell Allen 
was struck and killed by a 
pickup truck on U.S. 12 near 
New Buffalo, Mich., about five 
miles from the Allen home 
between LaPorte and Michigan 
city , Ind. . 
Except for one phone call 
shortly after Christmas, the 
family hasn't heard from Lisa in 
the year since she ran away. 
And this week the search 
became desparate. 
So far, Mrs. Allen said, family 
members have contacted 
police, juvenile probation of­
ficials and prosecutors but no 
one has been able to help them 
find Lisa, "and we don t have 
the money for a private detect· 
ive." 
"We don't know what to do anymore," said Lisa's uncle, John Reed. "There i.s so much sorrow in this family. This has just about killed all of us.'' 
The situation has been com­plicated by the circumstances of Machelle' s death. She disap­peared from her home for a few hours two weeks ago after an argument with her mother. She 
[continued on page 18) 

Author faces $25,000 bail for buzzing UN 
The Observet;.. 
wants 
YOU 

Positions are now open for Layout Artists (No experience is required). 
l I 
Apply at The Qbjerver
I I 
I 
3rd floor, La Fortune 
I I I 
l 
------~~-~-------------......__-----------~-­
NE\Y/ YORK (AP) · Bail was sel at $25,000 Wednesday for disgrun tied author Robert Baudin, whose aerial protest caused the evacuation of the United Nations find his publish­er's office building. 
When the 61-year-old Australian pilot suggested bail of $20,000, U.S. Magistrate Joel Tyler snapped, "We don't haggle like that here. '' 
"I haven't had a chance yout worship, I mean your honor," Baudin said. "I'm so used to going to Hong Kong where you bargain for everythmg." 
Baudin spent three hours Tuesday circling at low altitude in a single-engined Cessna above the United Nations area on mid-Manhattan's East Side. 
The target of his stunt was Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, a publishing ftrm in a 27-story building a few blocks from the United Nations. He claimed they did a IIchop job'' in editing the manuscript of his a~tobio-­graphy, and ha:d fatled to promote the book, "Confe~­sions of a Promiscuous Coun­terfeiter,'' published by the firm last April. , 
Unable to make bond, the U.S.-born Baudin was being held in the Metropolitan Cor­rectional Center and was ordered to undergo psychiatric examination. 
In addition to 5,000 U.N. employees, 1,500 people were evacuated from the Harcourt Brace Jovanovich building. 
He eventually landed at LaGuardia Airport, with a police helicopter escort. Baudin, who claims 40 years' flying experience, said he had the plance under control and had no intention of crashing it. 
Baudin' s pilot license was lifted and he faces state charges 

· or ~ggravated harassment, pumshable by up to a year in Jail uron convtction. The federa government added a charge of extortion in interstate commerce, which carries a 1 maximum of 20 years. 
-~-~------~-~-­

The Observer 
Carter scores significant energy price control victory 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The president's energy program. House handed President Carter After the vote, foes of deregu­a significant energy victory lated crude oil /rices lowered 
yesterday by voting to uphold their sights an regrouped a­his deciston to permit a phasing round an amendment by Rep. out of government price con-Peter H. Kostmayer, D-Pa.,trols on crude oil. · that would reimpose price lids 
By a 257-135 margin, the on home heating oil and diesel House decided to let stand fuel for the commg winter. 
Carter's olan for allowing the House Speaker Thomas P. price of domestically produced O'Neill predicted a closer vote n crude oil to rise toworldmarket the Kostmayer amendment 
levels by mid-1981. The presi­than on the more-sweepingdent has said this a crucial measure offered by Moffett. element in his 'drive to reduce Kostmayer said that retail 
U.S. reliance on imported oil. prices for heating oil have 
The House also rejected, on a nearly doubled since last win­243-124 vote, a less-sweeping ter, and increases he said far proposal to slap price controls exceeded the same period'soack on home heating oil and increases in the cost of crude oil diesel fuel. and in doing business. 
The crude oil vote came as the The effect of Kostmayer'.sHouse considered legisJation proposal would be to restore for authorizing Department of En­six months the/rice controls on 
ergy programs for the fiscal heating oil an diesel and jet 



year that began Oct. 1. fuel lifted in 1976. It would not House liberals argued that the automatically preclude further price control phase-out that price increases this winter but Carter began on June 1 was would restrict them to those lining the pockets of big oil forced by higher crude oil 
• • . Camarda 
companies at the expense of acquisition. costs. 
U.S. consumers. O'Neill, citing fuel oil prices of 
[continued from paKe J]
Importer crude oil, whose over 90 cent a g~llon in parts of price is set by member of the the country, told reporters knocked on the door, "peeped Organization of Petroleum Ex­"there is a great feeling that in,'' and them stepped inside porting Countries, now costs the price should be pegged with Bee. When Camarda ran around $23 to $24 a barrel -somehow by the federal govern­down the stairs, Bee ran out the roughly twice the average con­ment.'' door to his house, followed by trolled price of U.S. oil. The Massachusetts Democrat David and then Bobby, where 
But White House allies. in the said many Americans in cold they remained for almost a half House argued that despite tht whether states are far more hour befor going home, accord­added burden on cconsumers, troubled by the price ofheating ing to David. 
the .higher prices triggered by , oil than they are about gaso­David confessed that after deregulation would conserva­line prices over $1 a gallon. they reached Bee' house, Bob­
tion and encourage the serach Oil price deregulation has by told him that ''he shot at for new U.S. oil supplies. been portrayed by the Carter him but he didn't know if he hit A coalition of Republicans and admimstration as an essential him or not.'' David said that conservative Democrats joined action in the drive to spur the although Bobby didn't mention 
any names, he thought Bobbyforces with the administration seatch for alternatives to oil 
in defeating the move to block imported from members of the meant ''The dude who was the phasing out of controls on Organization of Petroleum Ex­coming down the stairs.'' cwde oil prices. porting Countries. David admitted discussing the 
The vote removed the most In two separate nop-binding incident the next day· wtth his serious obstacle to Carter's votes, a majority of House older brother, after hearing deregulation plan, which has Democrats previously went on about the shooting on the ~ever been in serious jeopardy record in favor of reimposin~ corner of a Notre Dame stud­m the Senate. I,t also reversed a price controls on both crude od ent. David told South Bend non-binding vote by 'House and petroleum products. police, "I said, 'Bobby, do you 
Democrats last spring that renounced Carter's oil pricing policies. 
Carter began lifting price con­
Kennedy poll results
trols under a 1975 law giving the president authority to do so without ~ seeking. further con­gressionaf approval. 
prove inconclusive 
Carter's proposed ''windfall profits" tax, now being consid­~by Stephen Sharp turnout, Lewis said that approx­ered in the Senate, is based on imately 60 students have con­deregulation · going forth. A An informal survey by the tacted him about the campus move to block . this process Campus Kennedy '80 commit­Campaign for Kennedy. "I'm would have made the tax pro­tee shows that 34 percent of extremely pleased with the posal meaningless and would Notre Dame students support support we've had this early in have been a major blow to the Sen. Edward kennedy for pres­the year, " he said. 
ident. Paul Lewis, the commit­·In addition to the campus 
tee's director, announced the survey, the campus Kennedy 
figure la~t ni2ht to a small '80 committee is working with 
group ofKennedysupporters in the Indiana state committee to
Police· 
IaFortune's Little Theater. collect 30,000 names on a 
Lewis pointed out, i1owever, petition urging Kennedy to 
that the poll results are ques­announce his candidacy. Ken­to hold tionable for two reasons. Only nedy has until Jan. 11 to ftle for 
189 students were questioned, the crucial New Hampshire 
and, each student was not primary.auction asked the same question about ''New Hampshire is an impor­
the presidential race. tant primary for Kennedy. 
''I'll be working with a orofes­Everyone assumes he will win The Police Department will sor from the marketing depart­there, but if it's only a 1iarrow conduct a semi-annual Un­ment over October break to win, the press will consider it a claimed Bicycle and Other Pro­design a professional survey loss," Lewis said. perty Auction beginning 10 whose results will be unchal­In preparation for the Indiana 
a.m. tomorrow at the rear of the lenged,' Lewis said. primary, Kennedy will almost Police Station, 701 West Sam­Lewis, wearing a "Citizens for certainly visit the campus next ple Street. Kennedy" button, told an audi­semester, Lewis said. Another Drivers are asked to park in ence of 10 people that Ken­potential candidate, Ex-Presi­
the lot east of the Police nedy's opponents --President dent Gerald Ford, will come to Department and not in space Jimmy Carter and California ND at the end of October: reserved for police vehicles. Gov. Jerry Brown--received 7 The Campus Kennedy '80 
Proceeds go to the Police percent and 4 percent of the Committee will hold a press Pension Fund. vote respectively. 'Of the conference with the St. Joe and 
Items to be sold include: remaining students questioned, · Indiana state committees Wed­bicycles, television sets,· air 33 percent chose Republican nesday at 1:30 p.m. to an­conditioners, 8-track tape play­candidates and 22 percent were nounce the official Indiana Ken­ers, and numerous miscellane­undecided. nedy for president campaign. ous items. Despite the meeting's poor know you shot that dude?'' He said, 'Yea, it was an accident.' 
]David also admitted that Bob­by showed him the gun when they were at Floyd's house, "a. little, small, flat gun.'' · 
According to David, Bobby said he threw the gun ''in the St. Joe River, down by the Army and Navy place." ~ 
Dectective Lieutenance Char­les R. Mahandk of the South Bend Police said that the S~uth Bend Police has no authority to make an intensive serach for the gun along the banks of the river, and that no probable cause existed for a search ~arrant of McKinstry's house. 
Floyd Bee, in his statement to police on December 15, admit­ted that Bobby had fired the gun after he and David' ran out of the house, but stated that he did not know Booby had shot "the dude that was running down the stairs'' until he heard it on the news. 
On the day of his arrest, Bobby McKinstry denied hav­ing a gun, hearing a shot as he was running, or seeing anyone come down the stairs. He admitted onlv to "hearing someone holler."' He denied that the coat he was wearing when he was arrested was the same one he had on at Camar­a's house on December 11. 
The case took a new twist when David, in a legal afficlavit signed on Decmeber 27, denied several of his earlier state­ments. He stated that he had heard no shot when fleeing he house, and that Bobby had never displayed any gun to him at any time. 
''Bobby never admitted that he shot at anybody,'· David stat­ed, "and he never had a gun to throw away in the St. Joseph River." 
David also changed his des­cription of Bobby's clothing on the night of the shooting. 
David said that he lied earlier because "I wanted to get even with iny brother Bobby McKinstry, on account of an incident that occurred six to seven years ago in Birming­ham, Alabama.'' 
Defense counsellor Paul Cho­lis requested that the court .dismiss the original statements in light of the affidavit. But after a hearing on February 23, JudgeS. J. Crumpacker denied the motion. 
While declineing to comment as to whether or not he would use the three statements at the trial, Krisor stated that volun­tary police statements can be used in trial proceedings. · Krisor also stated that the're was ''nothing unusual''· about the fact that four different judges has presided over the iniual hearing. 
Joe Camarda, readins David's original statement, satd that it included a "perfect descrip­tion'' of the events that happen­ed that night, of the . gun that was used, and of the clothes Bobby McKinstry was wearing. 
According to Camarda, Da­vid's description of his broth­her's ''grey and black coat of thigh length" matched the description Camarda gave to the police prior to Camarda' arrest. 
Camarda said that he was upstairs in his house studying on Dec. 11 when he heard the wind chimes ringing on the back of the front door. Alarmed when he heard nothing more, he ran down the stairs yelling "Who's there? 
'~! saw half a guy run out the door," he said, "The third guy had already gone out.'' When he stepped down to the landing Bobby McKinstry, who was standing by the door, aimed a gun at his head and ftred, he said. 
Camarda's housemate, Rick lane, who was studying up­stairs heard Camarda yell "Hey where are you going," followed by a "popping sound, like a firecracker. ' ' 
An ambulance was called se­conds after Camarda returned to his room, clutchin_g his throat, and semi-hystencally" shouting "Rick, I've been shot," according to Lane. 
Camarda was released after six weeks in St. Joseph Hospi­tal when he returned to his Reston, VA home. 
It had been the third incident of an attempted break-in at the residence during the semester. Intruders involved in the first break-in, which occurred just eight days after the opening of school, succeeded in stealing $1,000 worth of stereo equip­ment owned jointly by the two housemates. 
The police could not link the McKinstry brother or Bee to the earlier break-ins. 
Mc'Kinstry was detained in the St. Joseph County Jail from the time of his arrest Dec. 18 until April 19, when his father, Tommy Grove paid the $7~0 bail. McKinstry's attorney re­quested a reduction of the bail amount twice, but the motion 
Iwas denied each time. 
I I I I I I 
j 

I .I 
j 

1 

---~-~-~----~~-------~-­

The Observer Friday, October 12, 1979.-page 14' 
Carter speaks to AFL-CIO 

Support Flghtin' ltlsh Hockey Tickets On Sale Now Through Friday 
9am-4pm 
includes noon hour 
Nott·e Dame 13 Game Season Ticket .$13.00 Friday-Night-Series (7 gamt>s) $7.00 Saturday Night Series (6 games) $6.00 
One-11)' l"ickt"t per J.D. If you wish to sit with a friend. present your I. D. cards together. Four (4) I. D.'s max1mum. 

I E~pires 10/19/79___I 
I 
323 E. lrelano fld. 
South bend 
I 
2313 E. Edison Rd. 
South Bend"'--420 N. Nappanee
Elkhart
I 

All SMC and ND Students and Faculty invited to hear:  
Patricia Hodgson B.B.C. Commentator Columnist for the: London Daily Telegraph The Guardian Specialist on British Economics The British Disease: The Effects of Socialism on Britian Since WWII  
Date: Monday October 15 Time: 4:00pm Place: Hayes -Healy Aud. ~  

Professors to speak 
Sunday 

] ohn Gilligan, recent head of the U.S. Agency for Interna­tional Development, and . a Notre Dame professor of Law, will speak Sunday from 2 to 5 
p.m. man educational seminar sponsored by Bread for the World, a Christian citizen's movement. 
~ Arthur Quigley, associate professor of Electrical Engi­neering,. will also speak at the workshop. 
The event will be at the Broadway Christian Parish, 1412 S. Carroll, in South Bend. 
'~---------~~----~--------~ 
·-----------------· 
II s2.00 OFF II 
I 
Get $2.00 off any Family Size pizza with 
1 
this coupon. Liniit one coupon per pizza 
-.·.

1 I
ordered. No other offer valid. 
I I
pizzA~l I 
P A R L 0 R \ 

I 
' 

I 


A recruiter from Kaufman's Department Stores discusses the retailing industry at 
SenateSALT supporters outline strategies 
\ WASHINGTON (AP) -Sup­Javits, R-N.Y., ranking GOP · porters of the SALT II treaty member of the Foreign Rela­said yesterday they will have to tions Committee, and Alan bargain with four separate Cranston, D-Calif., the groups of Senate critics ~'t find Senate's majority whip, readily ' the 67 votes needed to ratify the agreed the treaty would fail in agreement. an immediate vote. Treaty bakers·pinpointed their ] avits estimated the number vote search as Sen. Frank of treaty supporters at more Church urged that the treaty be than 50, but less than the two­ratified but not go into effect thirds required for ratification. until President Carter assures ''That means we have to defer congress that Soviet troops in m some way to concerns, Cuba "are not engaged in criticisms and demands of some combat role" and pose no senators," ] avits said. threat to any other country. Church and Cranston said ad­
· 

Church, an Idaho Democrat ditional votes must come from and chairman of the Foreign senators concerned 1about four Relations Committee, said his separate issues: Soviet troops proposal would help "remove in Cuba, higher defense spend­one of the most serious ob­ing, greater arms reductions stacles" to ratification of the than contained in SALT II and treaty. verification of Soviet com­
Church and Sens. ] acob pliance with the treaty. 
ND Groundskeepers Workers plan for winter 
by Kelli Flint 

The fall and winter seasons place extensive demands on the Notre Dame groundskeepers. According to Superintendent of Grounds William Thistle­thwaite, the groundskeeping staff is continually trying to find more workable plans for the upkeep of the campus. 
The fall _plans are ma_inly to finish keeptng the grass mowed and fertilized, and the leaves raked. Also, fences are being placed around highly travelled areas to protect the lawn. 
"We realize that the fences 
·· take away from the beauty of the campus, so as traffic around fenced areas decreases., the fences are removed,'· Thistle­thwaite said. In addition, a new sidewalk was built between Breen-Phil­lips hall and the library reflect­ing pool during the summer to ease the traffic problems in that .area. 
The flowers on campus are replaced twice a year by groundskeepers. Geraniums 
-are planted in May and taken away in September. Tulips and mums are planted in r.tid-fall to insure an early spring debut. Some have already been plant­ed in the concrete beds near the Galvin building. 
Statu~s are also decorated by the groundskeeping staff. ''When a statue was dedicated recently to a Flanner student who died about a year ago, we planted flowers around it,'' Thistlerhwaite noted. 
"Students are also beginning to renovate older statues . on campus. We help them out by cleaning and painting the sta­tues, and planting flowers a­round them,'' he added. This is done because the groundskeep­ing staff feels that when stu­dents initiate positive actions such as renovating the statues, they should do what they can to aSSISt them. 
Winter preparations are al­ready in progress. Various measures were begun last May_ by the groundskeeping staff and director. 
"We took an overall view of last winter, critiqued our per­formance and took actions for necessary improvements,'' Thistlethwaite said. 
One move to be taken will be the removal of bumper pads from the parking lots around the Post Office, and behind the Center for Continuing Educa­tion and the University Club during semester break. Ac­cording to Thistlethwaite, this is being done to make these areas more accessible for snow removal this winter. 
''Notre Dame has the most beautiful grounds of anyplace in the country," Thistlethwaite said. "We hope to keep it this way, and continue improving them.'' 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -Presi­dent Carter, only two days after supporting efforts to tight­en the nation's money supply, said yesterday the Federal Re­serve Board has set interest rates too high. 
"Interest rates are too high, inflation rates are too high," Carter said in a speech to fead-. ers of the nation's building trades unions. 
Carter r,romised the union leaders, 'I will not fight in­flation with your jobs." 
Experts expect the higher in­terest rates to cause high unemployment in the building industry because of a lack of money available for new homes and other construction. 
In a nationally broadcast news conference on Tuesday, Carter endorsed the Federal Reserve's action to tighten the money supply and push up in­terest rates, saymg he would do "whatever it takes" to stop in­fll:ltion, even if it hurts him po­litically. 
But SJ?eaking to the construc­tion umon leaders in San Diego, Carter made it clear that he does not 'think their industry should suffer from the higher interest rates set by the board. 
"In fighting inflation, we do not sacrifice construction jobs;'' he said. "While interest rates have been rising because of de­cisions made by the Federal Reserve Board to record-high levels to cool inflation, we took special financial measures to sustain credit for construction, especially for ho1,1sing construc­tion." 
The presiderrr made no refer­ence to his statem(!nts Tuesday in which he backed the board's 
' 
decision to increase its bank
1

lending rate and tignten the ~vailability of credit. Carter said those moves had strength­ened the dollar, and moderated gold pric.is. 
Career did not elaborate on the ''special financial meas­ures," but he appeared to be talking about steps taken ear­lier this year to allow savings and loan institutions to raise money for mortage loans by of­fering savings interest tied to Treasury bill rates. 
In his well-received speech to the 60th annual convention of the AFL-CIO's Building and Construction Trades Depart­ment, a conglomeration of 16 construction craft unions with nearly 4. 5 million members, Carter vowed to work to in­crease construction jobs and to reject any anti-inflation strate­gy that relies on higher unem­ployment. 
. "I will not fight inflation with your jobs," he said. 
But the president offered no indication of how he hopes to preserve building trades jobs ''and get some more'' while the spiraling interest rates are prompting predictions of con­struction cutbacks and greater unemployment. 
The speech was the focal point of a two-day Western trip ­Carter's first visit to the re­g~n in five months. 
Carter began the two-day journey in Albuquerque, N.M., where he arparently scored' a few politica points in an area where his aides concede he is weak:' he received a warm re­ception. from Western gover­nors meeting in Albuquerque on Wednesday night. 
yesterday's Career Day. [photo by Rich Dohring] 
l---------------_J ---------------------­
-·· 

-------,.----~~---~­
The Observer 

"What do you mean, did I find the Trojan?!" [For details, see page 2)., 
I 

In northern California 
Counties refuse anti-pot funds 
EUREKA • Calif. (AP) -Of­ficials along California's iso­lated north coast, worried about hurting the local economy and offendmg voters, have rejected a $19,643 federal grant aimed at curbing the area's multi-mill­ion-dollar marijuana farming industry. 
Abortion conference 'planned 
Notre Dame's first National Conference on Abortion is sche­duled to open Monday, at 2 
p.m. •With speaker Colman Me Carthy's "Abortion ::tnd the Media.'' 
The reason for sponsoring this conference now is to ''increase the discourse on this subject,'' said conference director Fr. ] ames T. Burtchaell. ''This is acco.mplished ~rst by provid~ng or mterpretaung mformauon that might help unclutter the national debate of unfounded assumptions, and second by addressing important policy issues that abortion debate stirs up but can not resolve,'' he added. 
The twelve speakers "hold a variety of personal goals and political positions on abortion?' said Burtchaell. ''They were selected in orde-r to defend on or a variety of positons. '' 
Adoption, the reliability of reports regarding this topic, and the media's coverage of the abortion issues are among the few topics to be discussed during this three dar confer­ence, noted Burtc~ael . Others include the psycological profiles of women who did and did not choose abortion, and "the det­ermination of public opinion regarding the morality, legal­ity, and funding of abortion." 
Two hundred persons in law, medicine, government, and education have been invited to attend the conference, noted Diane R. Wilson, assistant director of the Department of Information Services. Others wishing to participate are asked to write the Center for Cont­inuing Education. 
Federal and state officials say the area may be a major supJ?lier of potent sinsemilla manjuana to the rest of the na­tion. ~ 
"Some people say that it ~oes to the major metropolttan areas,'' says Humboldt County Supervisor Ervin C. Renner. "Some people say it goes back East. I wouldn't know." 
The eradication program's potential impact on the econo­my "is a ~legitimate concern raised by responsible business­men," says another supervisor, Danny Walsh, 32. 
The federal government esti­mates the 1979 sinsemilla crop in Humboltcounty was worth $186 million. The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration recently comleted · a con­fidential report ranking sinse­
·milla. ~s the lOth largest cash crop in California, between al­mond and strawberries. 
The county. board rejected the federal Law Enforcement As­sistance Administration grant Tuesday by a 3-2 vote. The money was awarded in August to the state for distribution to sheriffs in Humbolt, Lake, Del Norte and Mendocioo counties. 
Supervisors who rejected th grant worried about an influx of armed federal . agents mis­treating local residents. Others said trying to stamp out the marijuana growing was akin to stopping bootlegging during Prohibition. 
''Ifwe killed every plant in the county we will still have people smoking marijuana and getting it from other places,'' says Sara 
P. Parsons, one of the super­visors who voted to reject the federal money. . 
• . Boat People 
[continued from page 1] 
The 'united Religious Community (URC) has already set up committees to be used as a resource for sponsors and support froups makmg sponsor­ship easier. 
One of the most pressing needs of the boat people is to be able to commumcate in Eng­
lish.  Language  classes  are  
offered in South Bend  at  the  
Old Central High School.  

Dr. Chau Le, a leader in the South Bend Resettlement ef­fort, stated that while these , classes are an excellent oppor­tunity to grasp a basic sense of the language, they are not complex enough for the many professionals who have come here. . 
Le mentioned the case of a newly arrivrdCarnboidan refu­gee, D Su, who speaks English well enough to understand it but not well enough to take the medical certification test. 
''He needs a higher level of English than they teach there," said le. "Such an undertaking would take time but the assis­tance to the refugee would be invaluable." . 
The refugees are eligible for both welfare and Medicaid benefits under Federal Law; thus the sponsor incurs little financial expense. 
The Catholic Charities chure states, ''that sponsors assist the family with the less tangible aspects of resettle­ment.....while it is not a legal commitment it is a moral one, to help the new neighbors to the best of your ability.'' 
WSND ' I I
EVERYTHING. 
1 with ID & coupon 1 I RECORDS. TAPES. a:>araphemalia I
announces contest rules 
Rules for the Student Union/ WSND "Find t.he Trojan" con­test were released yesterday by Jim o'Brien, WSND station manager. The contest sponsors will release a series of clues to the Observer, one each day, that will lead to the Trojan's capture. New clues will be released daily on the air at WSND, beginning at 5 p.m. every day. All guesses should be submitted to the secretary at the Student Union office, sec­ond floor LaFortune, along with name, address, and phone number. 

Friday, October 12, 1979 -page 15 
• Apditions • 
· tor the The Heiress 
Auditions for the second ~f four-major productions by the ND--SMC Theatre 
will be held on October 14th at 1:30 pm October 16th at 7:00pm. 
• open to all ND-SMC students •
r ,!j 
Raffle tickets for Homecoming Packets :still av~ilable at S.U. ticket office. $1.00 ticket 

H.C. fireworks show 
.. will begin immediately following USC rally...behind Stepan Center 
1 JUST FOR THE RECORO I 
1 in the 100 Cent~r 1 I offers 10% off on I 
! 
j j 

! 
j j 
I j 
j j 
l j j 

l ~ 
j l 

I 
j j j j 

I 

The Observer -Sports 
Play starts today 

Irish netters host Invitational 
hy Michael Ortman \ports Wn'ter 
l.ast spring, Notre Dame host­e-d the ) unior world Fencing ( :harnpion<>hips and athletes from 3'5 different countries flooded the campus. The f(,rrign representation won't be cJuitc as extreme this weekend forth(' notre Dame Fall Invita­tional Termi-, Tournament, but rhC'H' will he a significant rntC'rnatronal flavor among the '-C'V('Il Vl'>ll ing sl'hools. 
Among the ~0 vi-,iting cornpe­lllors arC' '>tudents from the l'hilipp111<''>, Australia, Finland, rll(' West lnd ies and Puerto Hun. 
AII ol thC' \%it ing teams arc from dH' Midwest, indiJding ddnrd111g <hampion Miami (Ohio) In fal t, tht' Redskins have won I h(' tournament three .,f th(' la'>t hnrr years. Th(' Irish havC' not firushcd on top smce 1974. 

Yet this year, things may be different. Miami is certainly the preliminary favorite, but a solid, experienced Irish squad 
must be "reckoned with.  Notre  
Dame  is  coming  off  of  a  
surprisingly  successful  spring  

campaign which saw 20 wins against just eight defeats, only the third 20-wm season in the team's history. With five returnees in the top six, the Irish can be nothing but opti­mistic. 
"I really think we have a shot at winning this thing," says senior captain Carlton Harris. "The attitude on this team is very posltrve. Everybody's loose and ready to win." 
Harris will he playing number­two singles behind freshman sensation Mark McMahon who has breezed through this fall's intrasquad challenge matches without losing a single set. "I 
Direct Diamond Importers 
FOX'S 
]ewelen Since 1917 
Special15% Discount on ALL Merchandise to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students. 
Town and Country, Concord and University Park Mall Open Daily 10-9 
·----------------------------------------,
'Hamlet' continues ! 
I 'I'he Notre Dame -Saint Mary's production1 
.. 

had been a little concerned 
about playing a freshman in the 
top spot," admitted Irish coach 
Tom Fallon, "but Mark certain­
ly has earned it. The tourna­
ment will be a good baptism for 
him." 

McMahon feels no extra pres­sure playing number-one. "You always have a ~esponsibi-· lity to win," he said, "whether you're playing· number-one or number-six. Both wins mean just as much to the team." 
In his home state of California, McMahon was ranked 21st, third in San Diego County and second in his home city of San Diego. 
Last spring's top.-.singles plav-· er, Mark Hoyer, has dropped to the thtrd spot atter a dissap­pointing stan this fall. But the · junior pre-med major has ral­lied in recent weeks and looks to have regained his fine calibre of play. ;, 
The addition of McMahon to the starting lineup has forced junior Herb Hopwood into the· number-tour spot. An mcredib­ly consistent player, Hopwood doesn't mind moving down a 
SCHEDULE FDA ND INVITATIONAL 
FRIDAY 

Noon First Match Singles and Doubles 3 pm Second Match Doubles 
SATURDAY 

9am Second Match Singles 1pm Third Match Singltls and Doubles 
NOTRE DAME ROSTER 
Singles No. 1--Mark McMahon, Fr. (--) No. 2--Carllon Harris, Sr. (17-9) No. 3--Mark Hoyer, Jr. (12-15} No. 4--Herb Hopwood, Jr. (16-10} No. 5--Tom Hartzell, So. (19-9} No. 6--Tom Robison. So. (19-8} 
Doubles No. 1--Harris/Hoyer No. 2--McMahon/Hopwood No. 3--Robison/Neal Chadwick 

of Hamlet will be presented for the last (3) .1979 records in parenthesis 
times on Oct. 11th, 12th, and 13th. notch from last year. "It doesn' r matter to rne where I Tickets are still available for all (3) play. As long as I play and win, score ream points, I'm happy."evening performances Sophomores Torn Hartzell and Tom Robinson round out the
For reservations call 284-4176 
top six, the same positions they had in the spring. They posted impressive 19-9 and 19-8 rec­

---------------------------------------~ ords respectively as freshmen. Whether or nor the Irish can improve on last year's fifth
Saturday 

place finish will depend greatly on the all important draw. The eight-team tournament will be played in a double elimination­type format with each team playing three times. However, a first round loss would mean 
Open 12 noon 
N.D. vs. A.F. 
nothing better than a fifth place finish. Thus, a tough first round draw could put a team in
T.V.Day 
the hole from the stan. Four of the eight teams are from Indiana. Besides the host 
Irish. teams from Purdue. Indi­
ana. Indiana State will compete 
as well as Western Michigan, 
Double Bloody Marys 
$1.00 
Oral Roberts, Illinois State and defending champ Miami.
Schnapps 50¢ 
Play is scheduled to begin 
[continued on page 17] 


Friday, October 12, 1979 -page 16 
~­
..:...• ;;;;:;~.. 

Senior captain Carlton Harn·s wdl be compet/ng at secund singles for the In'sh at the Notre Dame Invitational. [phrrto by jim Klooke] 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 24 On: Fr. 52 US naval 21 Pearl of Skirt 25 Lolly officer the Pacific feature 26 Daisy 54 Anima 25 Billiards 
5 Drooprng variety 55 Crap-table champ 
9 Eject 28 A lew item Willie 
-

13 Groucho's 29 Proverbial 56 Mastermind 27 Phony brother company ol32 A 28 Warren of 
14 -Minor 32 Domain 58 Roam Cooperstown 
15 NY Giants ol17 A 60 Eye part 29 1977 film, owner 35 Blue hue 61 Tendency "-Girl" 
16 Cue to the 37 40 winks 62 English 30 Trouble band 38 Bounder poet Allred 31 Winged 
17 Porcine 39 M.G. ol32 A 63 Volunteer wise one sexpot 44 Summer State: 33 Before 19 Relative refresher abbr. 34 Buy stuff 
ol mum 45 Storm stuff 64 Command 35 Alias: abbr. 20 18, 39, 46 Term paper to Fido 36 Abbr. after and 65 49 Phone 65 Even a proof 22 "Soap" 50 Piece of 40 Riled up family cartography DOWN 41 Abilities 23 -favor 51 Galley tool Battlefield 42 Wile of of ,1862 a H.trr 2 Writrngs 43 Do a garden
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
3 Here: Fr. ' job 
4 Season-47 Complained (recipe 48 Kilmer phrase) favorite 
5 Feebler 49 George M. 6 Egyptian 50 cash 
goddess 52 Basketball 7 Wrong: .Pre!. team 8 Hobby 53 Portent 9 Motel 54 Soft drink 
guest 56 Protrude 10 Leal 57 Command 11 Work units to Rover 12 Method 59 What17 A 13 Blokes calls 
All Rights Reserved 


-
-~ 

The Observer -Sports ,Friday, October~ lZ. 1979 -page 17 
(continued from page 20] 
ing Orioles starter ] im Palmer 5-4 opening-game defeat, for two runs in the second in­worked out a walk on four ning on three straight simgles. pitches. Willie Stargell started the rally 
That brought up Sanguillen, with a single to right and moved one of the last survivors of to second on ] ohn Milner's Pittsburgh's 1971 World Cham­single. ' pions. The 35-year-old catcher Madlock followed wjth a single . had batted only .230 this sea­to ri~ht, scoring Stargell and son, with only 17 hits and four sendmg Milner to third. Ott''s runs batted in. sacrifice fly to center made it Starihouse, working deliber­2-0. ately as a heavy mist fell on the Murray got one of those runs already soaked Memorial Stad­back in the bottom of the ium field, worked the count to second, ripping a 1-1 pitch from 1-2. Sanguillen, always a Pittsburgh starter Bert Blylev­
bad-ball hitter who has a repu­en down the right fiels line and tation of swinging at almost just inside the foul pole for a anything, fouled off three pitch-homer. 

es, then drilled his hit to right. It stayed 2-1 until the sixth 
Ken Singleton charged the when the Orioles tied the score. ball and h1s throw to the plate Singleton opened with a single was cut off by first baseman and circled the bases on Mur­Eddie Murray. Murray relayed 
ray's double to the left-center · to catcher Rick Dempsey, but field fence. · Ott, running all the way, beat The re~ay to the plate got past 
the tag for the deciding run. Ott but Blyleven backed it up. · Armed with the lead, Chuck It turned out to be a crucial save Tanner, Manager of the Nation­for the Pirates., ' 
al League champion Pirates, Murray moved to third on a went to relief ace Kent Tekulve grounder, then tried to score on to nail down the victory. The John Lowenstein's fly ball to lanky right-hander, who saved right. Dave Parker, who threw 31 games in the regular season, out two runners to become the­made quick work of the Orioles most valuable · player in . the in the ninth, striking out Dem-All-Star Game this year, char­psey and Kiko Garcia for the ged the ball and threw a strike first two outs, then getting AI to Ott, cutting down a non-slid­Bumbry on the bouncer to ing Murray at the plate with 

shortstop Tim Foli. room to spare. Both teams had a shot at 
This was a game filled with breaking it open in the seventh, drama and excin:ment, as first but both threats came up short. one team and then the other Madlock beat out a· single to 
took tur~s building threats only third and reached second when 
to have them turned back. 
Doug DeCinces, who had made 
The Pirates scored first, nick-two errors in Wednesday night's opener, threw the ball away. Garner was walke'd in­tentionally and Mike Easler batted for Blyleven. He walked 
on a 3-2 pitch, loading the bases with two out. Now, it was Palmer against Omar Moreno, who had left six 
... Falcons 
[continued from page 20] 
runners stranded in the first have to treat every team we game. The veteran Baltimore play like the number-one team hurler needed only three pit~n­m the country, because if we let es to do the job, getting Moreno up we are in trouble. to swing and m1ss at the last 
''A team like Air Force can one, a high, hard fast ball. In strike quickly through the air, the botton of the seventh, it was the same way Tech did, and we the Orioles' turn. have to be wary of that at all With one out, Dempsey and times. It's the same idea of our pinch-hitter Pat Kelly both maintaining the necessary in­walked on 3-2 pitches from tensity week in and week out. reliever Don Robinson. That's the trait of a quality Bumbry struck out, but pinch­football team." hitter Terry Crowley drew an-
Applications being accepted for the position of 
PRODUCTION MANAGER 
Notre Dame Observer 
Submit a brief statement of your qualifications and purpose to Steve Odland, business manager by Wednesday October 17th. 
• • • Pirates 
other walk, again on a 3-2 pitch, 
loading the bases. 
Robinson matched Palmer's feat, however, striking out Singleton on three pitches, with the last strike a checked swing. 
Baltimore had one more chance in the eighth, Murray opened with his third hit of game and DeCinces bunted. robinson tried for he force at second, but Foli dropped the ball for an error. 
Lowenstein the drilled the first pitch to Foli, who faked a play at third, causing Murray to he.sitate. Then the Pirates' 
.Irish Coach Dan Devine. may have to bundle up Saturday,
shortstop fired to second, forc­
sznc~ s_now has been falltng in Colorado. [photo by Doug 
ing DeCinces. Garner then 
Chnstzan]
threw to Madlock at third, trapping Murray in the run­down and completing a double play. 
Acareer in law­
It turned out to be Balitmore's final gasp when Sanguillen 
without law school. delivered the winning hit in the ninth. 
After just three months of study at The Institute for 
Thursday was to have been a 
Paralegal Training in exciting Philadelphia, you can have a 
day off. But the scheduled first 
'stimulating and rewarding career in law or business­
game of the Series was post­
without law school. 
p~ned for one night by a heavy 
As a lawyer's assistant you will be performing many of
ramstorm on Tuesday that 
the duties traditionally handled only by attorneys. And at
turned to snow early wednes­
The Institute for Paralegal Training, you can pick one of
day morning. But the delayed 
seven different areas of law to study. Upon completion of
game was played Wednesday night in temperatures that 
your training, The Institute's unique Placement Service will 
find you a responsible and challenging job in a law firm, 
bank or corporation in the city of your choice. 
d~opped int~ the 30' 
For Friday night's third game, it will be a battle of left­
The Institute for Paralegal Training is the nation's first 
banders, with Scott McGregor 
and most respected school for paralegal training. Since 
· pitchin for Baltimore against 
1970, we've placed over 2,500 graduates in over 85 cities 
] ohn Candeleria for the Pirates. 
nationwide. 
-If you're a senior of high academic standing and looking for an above average career, contact your Placement Office for an interview with our representative. 
• • • Netters 
We will visit your campus on: 
Wed. Oct. 17,1979
[continued from page 16] 
today at noon at Notre Dame's Courtney Tennis Center and continue through tomorrow af­
The ternoon. But if Mother Nature 
Institute 235 South 17th Street 
for Philadelphia, PA 19103 
(215) 732-6600 
does not cooperate, the match­
es will be played at a number of 
Paralegal 
locations including the ACC, 
Training® 
AC-0035the South Bend Racket Club 

operated by Para-legal, Inc.
and the Lafayette South Racket 
Approved by the American Bar Association. 
Club. 




Tile C*llilf ANCAKEHOUS 
C0u1t gpecill~y 
C0ven-CBa~ed l}\pp~e cpanca~eg · 
Our Specialty using fresh sliced apples 
topped with a sugar cinnamon glaze 
never surpassed! 
u.s: 31[Dixlewayl North In R.el1nd [Acrou from Hortday Inn] m-7433 Sun... Thun. 6A.M. to I P.M. frt. I Sat. 6a.m. -10 p.m. 

----..,...----~~-----~--~~--­• 
". ---~ r

The Observer Friday, october 12, l979 -page 18
t 
¥•-Q!_ 
-


• • • Lisa 
[continued from page 12] 

was found with one of the youths in the crowd Lisa had been involved with. 
Last Saturday, while Mrs. Allen was working, Machelle told her babysitter she was going to a servic~ station next door for a soft dnnk. She took $1, leaving her purse behind, and disappeared. 
Machelle's death has height­ened the family's worry about Lisa's safety. 
"We heard a rumor once that she was sick and in a hospital in Denver, but he couldn't find anything out about it,'' Mrs. Allen said. She also was reported at one time in the South Bend area. 
"We send teletypes out all over the nation,'' said county officer Larry Trueblood. "We've tried to follow every 
. lead the family gave us." Reed said the family doesn't know what to do now, "except 
·hope she hears about this or reads it in a newspaper and comes hom~. Or maybe some­one else will read it and call 
us." 



UNITED WAY at N. D •percent 

100 90 80 70 60 )0 40 30 20 10 
0 

AL BA BP CR CV Dl FA Fl FL GR HC HO KE LE LY MO PA SE SO ST WA ZA 
PARTICIPATION CHART 






• 

......... ,."' ..... -.................~­
• ·------o.•~· -·· 
~ ~. ---......... -• ----.... -.......... -.. -~-..... o4' ... -. 
The Observer 
Friday, October 12, 1979 -page 19 
1 
~ 

-I j 
I

Class ifieds  All classified ads mto the issue in which tclassifieds Monday thclassifieds must be pre ust be received by 5:00p.m. , two day~ ~riOr he ad is run. The Observer office will accept rough Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All -paid, either in person or through the mail.  

Wanted Omaha-Need ride there after USC game. Call Colin 8736. SEX-CRAZED LOVE GODESSES cannot keep me in South Bend for October break! Please give me a ride to Atlanta. This includes those lucky pe0ple who drive to Florida. I'll share driving and expenses. Please call Scoop at 1771. I need a ride to and from Philadelphia for October break. Will help with expenses and driving. Call Maryera (SMC) 5157. Need ride to and from Mpls/St. Paul area. Leave Oct. 19 or 20. Please call Peggy at 282·2241 soon. Need ride to Dayton area on October 18th or 19th. Call Kate 4+5220. Help. Need one or two rides to St. Bonaventure lor October break. Call Jean at 8075. Need ride to Chicago (0' Hare) anytime after USC game on Oct. 20. Will pay all tolls. Rod 8333. Colonial Caterers at Century Center needs part time bartenders, busboys, cashiers. waiters. waitresses, and kitchen personnel. Breakfast and Luncheon help needed most. Apply In kitchen across from entrance .4 in rear of Century Center. Need ride for two to Northern NJ. for October break. Steve 1432. OVERSEAS JOBS· Summer/year round. Europe, S.America* Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500·$1,200 monthly. Ex· penses paid. Sightseeing. Free informa· tion. Write: IJC. Box 52·14. Corona Del Mar. Ca. 92625. I need a ride to anywhere near Poughkeepsie, NY. or Danbury, Conn. for Oct. break. Will share driving expenses. PI ease call 3501 . 2 SMC girls need ride to Washington, DC. area for Oct. break-will share expenses. Call Betsy 5129, Mary 4954. Going to or near Pittsburgh over break? l'li share expenses. Prefer to leave before USC game. Call Matt 234·5284. Desperate need ride to Buffalo or Rochester, NY. for October break. Call Paul at 1038. Need· ride to Rochester, NY. for Oct. break. Please call Jan 8144. Need ride to Buffalo for break. Please call Lisa 8144. Need ride to Memphis, TN for Oct. break. Willing to share expenses. Veronica 1311. Part-time waitresses needed. Gropp's Fish and Stroh. 52129 US. 31 N. Phone m-0103. Need ride from Ft. Lauderdale Oct. break. Please call 4+4634. Need a rides to College Park. MD. area for Oct. break. Willing to share expenses. Please help. Call Cathy (SMC) 4349. Need ride · to Philadelphia area for October break. Mary Beth 5732 (SMC). I want to go home for NO-Tennessee! Need as many tickets as possible! Please help! Mary Lynn 4+4747. Need ride to Detroit area lor 2on Friday. Oct. 12. Will share driving and expenses. Call 1277 or 6354. Desperately need ride to NYC, NJ, CT. area lor break. Please call (SMC) 5137. Landscaping work. Need someone with own transportation and HH 2 hours available this week for $4.00/hour. Call 272·8857. I LOVE NOTRE DAME* and would rather not spend winter in JERSEY. Need ride back to campus after break. I'll share gas and tolls. Mary 6959. Need ride to TWIN CITIES after USC game. Will share driving and expenses. Tome 1247. I'm homesick for the land of 10,1100 lakes! Need ride to Minnesota for Oct. break.  Desperately need ride to Southam PA. [Harrisbury or nearby cities) for break. Will help with expanses. Jim 1688. Need ride to Philadelphia or Jersey at break. Will share expenses and driving. Call Jim 1729. HELP! Need ride after USC game to either Maine, NH .. or Boston area. Willing to share expenses--really home· sick! Call 3567. 1need aride to New York area (preferably Westchester) for Oct. break. Will share driving and expenses. Please call Steve 1813. Dying Mom wants to see son. Need ride 'to NJ·NY for break. Call Mike 1824. Need aride to Twin Cities area for break. Will share$$. Mark 8341. _ Need .ride to central New Jersey or vicinity for Oct. break. Will share expenses. Hank 8181. Need ride for two to CT., NYC area for break. Will share expenses. Julie 4527. HERBIE'S DELl NEEDS DRIVER for campus route 12·15 hrs/wk. Good pay.· Must have own transportation. 234·6519. Tickets Attention anyone going home before USC game-·1 need 1 student ticket. Call John 1209. Need 2-4 South Carolina tickats-GA. Call 1895. USC. Yes, believe it or not, I need 2 GA USC tickets. However, I have lots of money for them. Call Dave. 8782. I also need 1,3, or 4 Clemson tickets. Call Dave at 8782 or Bill at 8444. Golng home for October break? Sell your USC tickets to 2 SMC ladles. We need 2 GA tix and 2 student tix. Willing to pay your price. Call 41·4349 Cathy or Leslie. Desperately need 5 GA tix to Tennessee. Call John at 3656. Need 8 tlx for So. Carolina. Call 289-6543, Mark or Mike. Wanted: 2 or 4 GA tickets to any football game. Will oav good money. 41·5195. Need several GA tickets for Clemson, Tennessee games. Call 1771. You name the price, I'll pay if right! Either I get USC tickets or I get disemboweled!$ You may think I'm nuts, but I won't be if I get som& GA's for Oct. 20th!! Considering the potential conse­quences, money is beside the point!! Call Terri 8211. 'Help!! Need 2 GA USC tix. Sheila 7924. WANTED: GA tickets for any home games. Must be two or more together. Call 287·3311. Danny-Joe. Desperately need 2 GA USC tickets. Call Michelle at 4269. For sate: The remainder of football ticket pack. Call 277·5072. Parents need 2 GA's for South Carolina. Please call Jim 1692. 2 South Carolina GA tickets could make you rich. Call Rick at 8739. KANSAS TICKETS for sale. Great seats. Call Ron 4614. Wanted-Wanted 28 USC tickets. I'm paying the price you'll like. Will be in town tonight, Oct. 11, at Quality Inn. Ask for Bill Dandridge. II Papa returns for the USC game needing three GA tix, anywhere. Money is obviously no object. Call 288·2484. Need GA Navy tickets. 4+4375. Help·l need two USC·GA tix to USC game. Call Lousie 4762 (SMC(. Need Southern Cal tickets. Will pay top dollar. Call Joe after 10. 233·6024. Need GA tickets for Southern Cal. game. Will pay big bucks. Call Jane 283·8012. Help! I'm frantic--need 8 tickets for So. Cal. game. Please call Katie at 7911.  Wanted: 2or 4GA tickets to South Carolina. Call (SMC) 4166. Need 2 GA tickets to Navy game. Call Pete 289-9351 . Wanted: Two GA tic~ets USC. Will pay $100.00 for good seats (312) 823·1158 mornings. I need 2 So. Carolina GA tix. Call Pam at 1257. Top dollar for South Carolina GA's. Call Tom 1610. Will pay $200.00 for 4 GA tix to USC game. Call 233·5538. HELP!··Parents need 2 GA tickets for Southern Cal. Call 272·4478 after 5:15 pm. Need 4 GA tickets to any home game. Call Mark at 3647. Navy. Need student and/or GA Navy tix. Call Paul 263·6313. 1need 2 G A tickets for South Carolina. Please call Greg 6726. Need many GA and reserved tickets for Navy. Bill 8891. 'Help! Need one USC student ticket! Call Jan 7921. Will pay corporate bucks for 2 South Carolina GA tix. Call Todd: 3751. Strack'a on a rampage...stop this mad· ness by selling him your USC and/or Tenn tix! Call John at 234·5284. Desperately need 2 GA South Carolina tix.Call Jake 3180. I need [and will pay wall for) one USC ~ need [llld wiH pay wall for] ona USC student ticket. CaH JC It 8541. Need 2 Navy GA tickets and 1 Clemson ticket. Call 5105. Personals Keenan One southeast East...Zas for us ?1?'----------­"P.S. I LOVE YOU." Maggie, Susan, Beth, Cindy, Susie, Patty: "Big Love" .You and Me, hon Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow. Cuddly, Good luck on LSAT's (and at Bethel!!) Love, US Continue to feel no shame before me, for I will never laugh. Minnesota Club members , sea you at the picnic tonight [Frl) at 5:00. Any questions Call us. Your Officers To the Quint. If only the good die young, we'll live forever. Love and kisses,• The DJ's MB Keep singing in the rain. KG Fote· Happy 19th Birthday to our favorite CHEG. Love. Your Business Roommies Sr. Sparkle, C.S.S. Please-no Monday headlines from your weekend escapades. Happy Birthday' Love, Bill To My Favorite Female in Lewis: Be at Howard Hall's Party Saturday Night. P.S. Did you find a place in the Library Monday? Sister Jesuit Janine, We must regretfully inform you that due to last weekend's disgraceful activities, you must leave the convent. But what the hell, have a Happy 19th Birthday anyway. Love: Kat. MG. Mandy, Jeanne. Lisa. Gordon, and Bruce (Hey, Baby). Girls-Inside-out air outside-in tomorrow night. Saturday is Phillippe Stephen Manuel  Dear Barb Brock, Happy 2-year anniversary. Thanks for all the great times. I love you very much. Jake G. Have fun tonight! M A K J~ho says 68 is old? Ronnie-Baby is still 11. Don't tell me, you like Teddy!! Beth Stranger. 1 only know how to make lime and strawberry daquiris··who ever heard of chocolate? As usual you'll lose your legs after one drink. Renegade Renegade, • At that infamous "53". wicked people don't lose their legs or become loosie goosie 1 Stranger P.S. or their stomachs! Rich, Mmmm ...too bad you missed the deli· cious steak at Boar's Head. Stranger Paul B. thanks for being around when I need you. E.A.H. P.S. How 'bout your values? P.J.C. Cindy, · Have a Happy 19th Birthday. See you around. Mike Today is Cindy Schwenk's 19th Birthday. Give her acall at 4+4376 and wish her a happy one. Need several South Carolina tickets. Please call 232·7314. Thanks! O'Cieary's former keeper· Here is another perwnal for you. Hope you can stiH smile and that we don't flunk out. M.E.O.T.O. Beautiful, Once again it's nice to see you. As usual will probably have another wonder· lui weekend:too much to drink and too much to eat. Fortunately, I learned a few interesting ways in which to burn off calories this past week in my biology class. Your's in weight reduction the fun way, Tim Weebles, As ion as "You are so excited you can't stand up", my pillow is safe. Get better soon. You're going home. Barb-1 misplaced the telephone number you left with my roommate after you had called about giving me a ride to Denver, Col. Could you please call back tonight? Karen 7915. Murph, (alias Pilot Fish) Hey, you gorgeous hunk of man with the extremely sexy buns-Happy 19th B·Day! Make it a good one. Pary hearty. Affectionately, Blockhead P.S. Share that beard!! Barb. Happy 21st!! Hope your birthday is as good as mine (Joanie) was and half as good as mine (Binny) will be!! Love, Joante and Ginny Putt. Have a Happy 20th Birthday and a .great year! You deserve it. Your friend. Sue Boooy, it's Pia Trigiani's birthday, Fidel Castro Are Blondes fun? BD. You'll look outrageous in red. DonJ. Hank· Happy Birthday Snort. How about some Tom Collins? Shawn Cathy F. Have a happy 19th birthday. TB Sweetheart (oops. I did it again). I can't wait either·· Happy Day' Kath PA Sorry I haven't written b~t have been very busy lately (sorry no girls). I wish I could make itfor pizza & beer but I guess I'll have to have my own. Take care, John Cheer for the Celtics & Bruins  Curly Herdabeest. ~ick you know what saturday. You know, your feet are big enough. AWildabeest A million thanks to everyone who helped make my birthday so extra special. It was a great day! You were all wonderful. Thanks again. Donna MB BUDD, Thanks for all your support and en· couragement. Saturday night is for you JOHNZO Charlie Brown: Happy 20th Birthday!! I want to sec some hard-core drinking! Keep T1m company. Love, Anne Tim Griffin, Are you ready for your birthday? I hope that it's a happy and memorable one! L~va, Anne Avery happy birthdaywish to two men oL, Sarin. Charlie Brown and Tim Griffin' Eat lunch at the SENIOR BAR, Friday 11:30-2:00, featuring hamburgers, hot· dogs, beer, and other refreshments. -------------···· Guys, Yes. it's the wild and wondert1.•: Winifred Fitzgerald's 18th Birthday 011 Sunday! Call 7445; send Gifts to 32H Lewis. LeMans invites you to watch N D beat Air Force at Shakey's (on Edison) Sat. Oct. 13, 11 am. All you can ~at for only $2.50. John EARdley ~ood luck on your LSAT Next time it rams bring your umbrella. MK. CCW &D meets Friday in Rm 399 LaMans hall, 4:00, bring $2.00, sailing gear, coex card. OMBUDSMAN picnic fer all members, Friday, 5 pm, en Holy Cross lawn. Be there. Attention all Montanans-We need to know who you are In order to get a club started-Please call 3701 and leave your name with Renee. P.S. Possible Pafities in the planning. Student ticket available for remaining home games. Jante 7434. Give Vikes a break!! He tries. RUP Attention: All long Islanders. Happy hour Senior Bar, 4-6 Friday, Oct. 12, Baars 3/ $1.00. LONG ISLAND CLUB Monotheistic DOCTRINE of Reincarna· tion in the Torah, the Prophet and the Gospels. Write: The Truth of Islam, P.O. Box 4494, South Bend, Indiana 46624. BART: What do you think of this one? Irish Pounds Outweigh Troy Ounce? Pretty bad, I know. Well. we tried! Still like the mermaid jingle. BudrJandWall Nancy Russell and Paul Lewis are proud to announce their engagement. Call SG office in SU to say congrats. No, i don't have a tapeworm. Love Birdman Tonights the night Linville Club Smoker--be there or be .. Narcissist Dillon Dullards who dwell un the third floor· your verbage is more stentorian than your deeds You Hubristic Hobos originality is a concept obviously foreign to your conceil· ed craniums. There is hope however as you demon· strated in your detrepted attempt to emmulate the debonair~ soph1st1cates on the 6th floor Flannm On this nole we bid yo~ ad1eu 6th Floor F1a1•ner If you don·t know wna\ the 6th floor Flanner guys are saying. your lack of understanding cannot be awibuted to the typing the Observer typist Mary Schmidtlein. Laura Rohrbach, Judy Curlee, Doug, Good luck on the LSAT's. Love. MB TOM Goedde as ~ lawyer. we hope so.  

i 
j 
J J 
j 
J 

Will share expanses and driving. Call S.O.S. Emergency. Need 2 to 5 Southern Jose Gutierrez's birthday! All the best to Good luck on the LSAT. Zelda Ray at 8135. Cal tickets. good money. Call Joan i280. this revolting Hispanic, the former stud Janie, Bill, Bill, and Jim·· The Miami County Club 
of Maynooth, and the Quke or Rude. What can you do with an Arts & Letters and Charter Member Need ride to Tennessee game, Nov. 9. Grandparents last pilgrimmage to the Fair play to ya Philly J6e!l degree? You can always sell insurance. Will share expenses. Call Mary Ann Dome. Need Southern Cal tickets badly. Love and Yorkies, Good luck Saturday. 4+4347. . Call Kevin 3528. Your Irish Lassies Ro 



.---------·------------------------11 
-
In Colorado 
Notre Dame faces winless Falcons~ 
began·_,,
by Mar~ Perry day. Sophomore Steve Cichy is Sports Editor But the major weapon for the the onlv remaining veteran in Falcons is quarterback Dave the Irish defensive backfield. 
The Notre Dame football team Ziebart, who will hold most of Defensively Air Force is also will be traveling to Colorado the Air Force passing records relyin~ on some younger play­Springs, CO, to take on the by the end of this season. He ers, w1th six sophomores start­winless Air Force Falcons this presently holds the record for ing and only four letterment 
Saturday, and many observers total offense jn a career with listed as regulars. Senior are predicting that the Irish will 4, 763 yards, and he needs just defensive tackle Ryan Williams be getting no more than a 72 passing yards to claim the is the,mainstay, as he lea&, the tuneup for next week's USC · Air Force career mark in that teams in tackles with 69, includ­game. But Irish coach Dan department. ing five for a total of 20 yards in Devine is not taking rhe Falcons Z1ebart's favorite target for losses. 
that lightly. most of the season has been The major task for the Falcons The game is scho:duled to start senior split end Ken Dressel, will be trying to stop halfl->ack at 2:30 EST, with local broad­who has caught 11 passes for Vagas Ferguson, who wil; be cast on WNDU-TV (Channel 134 yards. But last week continuing his assault on the 16). A crowd of about .~5.000 is Ziebart turned to running back Notre Dame record book.. The expected at Falcon Stadium. Mike Fortson, who caught 10 senior tri-captain, who gained notre Dame is 8-0 in the series aerials for 61 rards against 177 yards on a school record 39 against Air Force, winning last Navy. carnes last week against Geor­year's contest 38-15. Leading the improving Falcon gia Tech, needs only 105 more 
''The Air Force record is more ground game is Shelby Ball, yards to pass Jerome Heavens than a bitdeceiving'after the way who has 352 yards on 77 as Notre Dame's top career they played last week against rusher.
attempts thus far this season. Navy,'' Devine noted. ''The Fortson has added 102 yards on ''Georgia Tech may not have Middies got their scores early, 20 carries since filling in for the been rated in the top 20 like 0ur and then Air Force dominated injured) erry Rouse. three previous opponents, but the last three quarters, ending "We had a lot of success they came to play and · that up on the Navy nine-yard line in stopping Air Force on the should have proved something the last minute before losing ground out there last year,'' to us," Devine continued. "We 13-9. Their running game gets Devine added, "but they hurt [continued on page 17] better each week, and their 
us by throwing the ball some­defense has improved tremen­thing like 42 times for nearly dously since the season 
250 yards. With Ziebart back again, we proba!Jly can expect 
Pirates win on Sanguillen 's single 
much of the same this year, because he know5 how to put Friday.
BALTIMORE ( AP) -Pinch­games this season. the ball up in the air. Our hitter Manny Sanguillen deliv­Sanguillen, the seldom-used The frissy-haired pitcher madeTryouts on secondary 1sn' t in ~ood shape ered a two-out, two-strike third-string Pittsburgh catcher, just on p1tch to Bill Madlock 
physically, so we' II JUSt have to won a battle of nerves with when Pinch-runner Matt Alex­
single during a continuinghope our freshmen and sopho­downpour in the ninth inning, Baltimore reliever Don Stan­ander took off for second. The 
mores can do the job there.''
Monday scoring Ed Ott with the winning house and drilled the decisive speedster previously had been The Irish secondary will have run Thursday night as the hit on another rainy, bone­thrown out only once all year,
Notre Dame students interes­
to operate without the services 
Pittsburgh Pirates nipped the chilling night in Baltimore. but Orioles catcher R1ck
ted in trying out for the Irish of Dave Waymer, Tom Gib­Baltimore Orioles 3-2 in the Pinch-hitter Bill Robinson Dempsey gunned him down.
basketball team as a walk-on bons, and John Krimm, who sec~nd game of the 1979 World opened the ninth with a single After Madlock flied out, Ottmust attend a tryout session are all recovering from leg senes. to left against reliever Tippy bounced a bad-hop single offon Monday, October 15, at 7:30 problems. Dave Duerson has The victory tied the best-of­Martinez, Baltimore Manager the chest of Baltimore secondp.m. Walk-ons should report to filled in well for Waymer at Earl Weaver immediately we~ baseman Billy Smith. Then,
seven series 1-1, with the teams
the basketball arena of the cornerback, and will be joined moving to Pittsburgh for the to his bullpen for Stanhouse, a Phil Garner, goat of the Pirates' Athletic and convocation Center 
by junior Angelo Fasano and right-hander who saved 21
next three contests, beginning
before the 7: 30 session begins. [continued on paf!.e 17]
freshman Rod Bone on Satur-
Middle linebacker Bob Crable leads Notre Dame in tackles after four games.. [photo by Doug Christian] 
Four Observer writers tied for lead after five weeks ofgrid picks Mark Perry Paul Mullaney Beth Huffman Frank L.aGrotta Craig Chval Brian B~lane Michael Ortman Paul Stauder 'Sports Editor Asst. Sports Editor WOmen's Sports Editor Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports riter Sports Writer WSN DSports Director 42-17, .712 41-18, .695 42-17, .712 42-17, .712 38-21' .644 42-17, .712 40-19, .678. 40-19..678 Washington Washington Washington Washington Washington Washin~ton Washington Washington Washington at Arizona State by 2 by5 by10 by10 by 1 by6 by4 by9 Arkansas Arkansas Texas Tech Arkansas Arkansas Texas Tech Arkansas Arkansas Arkansas at Texas Tech by? by2 by? by6 by3 by 10 by5 by14 Georgia Tech Tennessee Tennessee Georgia Tech Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee at Tennessee by6 by8 by3 by 7 by21 by? by 10 by4 Houston Houston Houston Houston Houston Houston TexasA&M TexasA&M Houston at Texas A&M by1 by 10 by9 by 10 by4 by 10 by3 by3 Illinois Purdue Purdue Purdue Purdue Purdue Purdue Purdue Purdue at Purdue by 14 by? by? by21 by11 by9 by9 by 16 Indiana Ohio State Indiana Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State at Ohio State by 3 by 1 by 14 by 13 by17 by3 byB by6 LSU LSU Georgia LSU LSU LSU LSU Georgia LSU at Georgia by 7 by4 by6 by4 by5 by10 by1 by? Maryland NC State NC State NC State NC State NC State NC State Maryland NC State at NC State by3 by3 by6 by3 by 10 by6 by2 by6 Michigan State Michigan State Michigan State Michigan Statt Michigan State Michigan State Michigan State Michigan State Michigan State at Wisconsin by 7 by 11 by 12 by 14 by9 by8 by10 by12 Minnesota MichiBan Michigan Michigan Michigan Michigan Minnesota Michigan Michigan at Michigan by by14 by14 by? by4 by2 by9 by14 Oklahoma Oklahoma Texas Texas Texas Texas Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma vs. Texas by4 by3 by3 ._by3 by? by? by4 by 10 Stanford Southern cal Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal by 14at Southern Cal by 10 by 16 by? by14 by 10 by 12 by17 ... Notre DameNotre Oame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame by 28 by 22 by 10 21 25 21 21 by28  









