---· --. ----~1
r---------------------------------------------~--~--------------------~-------------------------------------· 
I I 
Huddle finds rat -page 3
'
' ' 
VOL XIII, NO. 68 
by Mr~e Shields Price said. 
Senior StaffReporter Junior Class President Dan McCurrie had proposed the letter-writin"g campaign last 
The future of a lottery that semester to allow parents of would force some of next year's juniors to express their disap­seniors 10 live off-campus is still proval of plans for ,a lottery.undecided, but Director of McCurrie said yesterday that Housing Edmund Price is hope­the juniors were planning no • ful that one may not be neces­new steps in protest of the sary. lottery.
"We won't know until after "We will try to follow the housing contracts are in," through with some of the things Price said yesterday. "Hope­we did last semester," McCur­
fully, we won't need a lottery, rie said. He noted that much of but there is no telling until the the momentum of the move­contracts get back.'' ment against the lottery was 
Price added that he believed lost over the break. He said he many )Untors have already expects more action ''after decided to live off-campus, a students get settled in.'' development that would make a Nick Schneeman, a juniorlottery unnecessary. and student advisor to the class 
When asked about off. officers, stressed the rel'resen­
Prof. Rice leaves for Tawain 
campus housing in the event of tative's concern with neighbor­
a lottery, Price said "a lot" of hoods. "Lottery or no lottery, 
housing is still ready for occu­some students still have to live 
as constitutional consultant 
pany, citing vacancies at Cam­off campus." pus View Apartments. He sai Jhe felt the University by Zenon Bidzinski of China (Taiwan). any of the other five senators 
''I don't think there is any should ''invest to beef up its According to Rice, he is one involved in the suit are makingproblem with the volume of neighborhood programs,'' Charles E. Rice, Notre Dame of approximately 40 members the trip due to other resl'onsibl­available housing. The pro­notmg Notre Dame's "great professor oflaw, left for Taiwan of a group of legislators and lities in Washington, sa1d Rice,
blem is where it is and whether research department'' in such this morning on what he termed other supporters of the lawsuit and only one other non-legisla­
it would fit the needs of the areas as socwlogy. a ''fact-finding consultation'' invited to Taiwan for three days tive lawyer besides himself was 
students," he noted. He said students should be for the Washington Legal of activities and conferences included in the group.
Price acknowledged he has involved in neighborhoods. He Foundation, the law firm repre­concerning the treaty. There is also no public money received "about a dozen" anti­described present neighbor­senting Sen. Barry Goldwater The group will meet with being spent on the trip, he lottery letters from parents of hoods as ''a bunch of houses.'' (R-Az.) and other legislators in Chinese government officials assured. juniors. Most of the letters He said students should try to their suit challenging President and representatives of the Rice specificallY. mentioned expressed a feeling that "the find "a real place in the Carter's abrogation of the defe United States business commu­that the group wdl be talkingUniversity has let them down,'' neighborhood." fense treaty with the Republic nity. Neither Goldwater nor with the defense minister, 
foreign minister and members of the branch of the U.S. Chamber ofCommerce based in Taiwan. 
"One of the main purposes of the meetings, he stated, ''will be to get an apereciation 
Carter addresses Congress, nation 
WASHINGTON (AP] -Presi­sion, confrontation and surren­has outlined. build a nation and a world of the treaty and the w1llingness 
dent Carter asked Congress last der. He said those proposals where every child is nurtured of the Chinese to perform it.''
night to help him build "a new In a State of the Union would be the basis for the ''new and can look to the future with foundation' for prosperity at address that marked the mid­foundation'' that was both the hope -where the resources now As a professor of constitu­
tional law at Notre Dame and a
home and peace abroad, dis­way point of his four-year term, theme and the slogan of his wasted on war can be turned missing as myths the notions Carter ventured no dramatic message. towards human needs -where member of th~ advisory board that America's only choices are new proposals, but bid for ''The new foundation I have all people have enought to eat, of the Washington Legal Foun­between inflation and reces-enactment of those he already discussed tonight can help us a decent home and protection dation, which he describes as a 
from disease," Carter said. "private, public interest . law "Tonight, I ask you to join firm," Rice has been assisting me in budding that new founda­in the preparation of the law­
Additional personnel solves 
suit. 

our country and our world," he HE said the action involves a concluded. rather technical constitutional tion -a better foundation -for 
ND security shortage inadequacy 
The president urged support question concerning the divi­for his increased defense bud­sion of powers between the 
The twelve part-time undergraduate students get and said a new .strategic executive and legislative
by !Aura !.An'more 
StaffReporter were hired as a result of the vandalism in the D-1 arms limitation agreement w1th branches. parkin~ lot last week. They are juniors and seniors the Soviet Union will not be The suit was filed on Dec. 22, who wt!l patrol the parking lots each night. signed unless it advances Ame­1978, in the U.S. District Court 
The shortage of security personnel reported last Two pairs will work each :tight equipped with rican safety. in Washington D.C. The suit week in the Observer has been partially alleviated, special security gear and radios. In addition to "I will sign agreement names six senators, eight con­
no 

according to Joe Wall, director of Security. Nine their regular duty, the part-time undergraduates which cannot be verified.. .I gressmen and one senator-elect permanent employees were hired last week, in will serve additional duty at especially busy times, will sign no agreement unless as plaintiffs, with President addition to twelve part-time students. such as football weekends. Wall stressed that the our deterrent force will remain Carter and Secretary of State The shortage was inherited by Wall when he began main prerequisite for the job was that it not overwhelming," he said. Cyrus Vance as defendants. It his position last October. At that time, the interfere with a student's studies and other In the nationally broadcast alleges that: department was short seven people. Soon required activities. and televised address at the 1) the President did not afterwards, two other resigned for reasons On a typical night, the security shift is divided CaJ?itol, Carter presented these unilaterally have the power to stemming form the arson incidents that occurred into duty assignments. Two groundspeople patrol legislative proposals: abrogate the 1954 Mutual over mid-semester break. the campus on foot to check academic buildings -A ceihng on hospital price Defense Treaty between the 
Two other resignations from the force are also· and other campus installations. There are also two increases, which he called a Rel'ublic of China and the 


expected this week; one member has accepted a position as a polic.officer in California and the other 1s returning to school full-time. Thus security will again be short, this time by two employees. 
K("eping a full personnel roster IS an ongoing process, Wall explained. Several security mem­bers are graduate students, only expected to remain with the force for one to two years. Wall added that efforts are continuing towards employ­ing a full force. 
extra groundspeople between 6 p.m. and 2 a.m. who walk the Saint Mary's road (connecting it with the Notre Dame campus), supplementmg the regular officers. Three officers patrol in vehicles to check the parking lots (in addition to the student patrol), watch the perimeter buildings, serve as an escort service for the Student Health Center, and patrol the Saint Mary's road, including leaving their vehicles to patrol on foot. Two other security personnel also serve at the campus gates. 
clear test of congressional com­mitment to fight inflation. 
-A measure providing for national health msurance, to be phased in during the 1980's. 
-Limited pubhc financing of co~gressional election cam­paigns. 
-Deregulation of the trucking and rail mdustries. 

Umted States; 
2) the termination of the treaty requires a one-year noti­fication by either side, and President Carter cannot even serve notice of an intended termination without ''the advice and consent of the U.S. Senate, or the approval of both 
[continued on page 6] 


News in brief 
Wednesday, January 24, 1979-page 2 
GOP picks Detroit as 
Gunners shell villages 
1980 convention site 
Bon1birig continues in Mideast
WASHINGTON (AP)-A sharply divided Republican Party 
selected Detroit yesterday as the site of its 1980 natio~al convention. After beating back an effort to overturn the ch01ce of its site selection panel, the Republican National Committee approved Detroit as the GOP convention city by' a vote of ?5 to 
52. The climactic vote followed an hour and a half of sometunes bitter debate and a string of much closer preliminary votes. At the height of the debate, national committeeman Vern F. Neppl of Minnesota called Detroit "a rather depressing site." State party chairman Ray Barnhart of Texas, which had lost a bid to hold the convention in Dallas, argued that "the atmosphere of Texas would be good for the Republican Party nationally." A motion by state GOP chairman Frank J. Fahrenkopf Jr. of Nevada to have the site committee produce a list of at least three alternate cities to choose from was defeated on a 80-66 vote. In Detroit, Democratic Mayor Coleman Young, a _Democrat, praised the committee's final ch<;>ice as. "an outstanding vote of confidence in the people ofDetrott and m the future of our great city." 
Carlo Ponti convicted in money transfer sche~e 
ROl\.1E (AP)-A Rome court yesterday found film producer Carlo Ponti guilty of ill~gal transfer of money abn;>a~ and sentenced him to f<ilur years m pnson and a fme of $24 rmllton. At the same time, the court acquttted Ponti's wife, actress Sopttla Loren; and her private secretary, Ines Bruscia, who were charged as accomplices and with attempting to smuggle works of ~s abroad. 1He judge also dropped two of the four years of Pont~ s sentence under a pardon provision. Neith<;r. Ponti nor. Mi~s Loren attended the trial. They are French c1t1zens and live m Paris, having given up their Italian citizenship because of legal problems surrounding their divorces and marnage. France does not extradite its citizens for prosecution in other countries. 
T a/madge· enters hospital for alcohol treatment 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Sen. Herman Talmadge, D-Ga., has been admitted to Bethesda Naval Hospital for treatment of alcohol abuse and other complaints, an aide said yesterday. Talmadge, 65 years old and a 22-year veteran of the Senate, entered the Maryland hospital Monday night on the advice of,?is physic~, according to news secretary Gordon Roberts. The Georgia senator asked that he be admitted to be treated for exhaustion, fatigue and alcohol abuse, which associates said was the result of prolonged stress and pressures,'' Roberts said in a statement. He said Talmadge also has requested a thorough physical evaluation, which "combined with bed rest and medical care, will require several days." The Senate Ethics Committ;ee is investigating alleg.acions ~t T~dge ordered the dive~10n of $39,000 in camprugn contnbunons and expense funds mto a secret Washington bank account. . 
Weather 
Snow today cumulating 4-8 inches by morning. Windy and cold 
with falling temperatures. Occasional snow likely tonight. 
Wmdy with lows 10-15 above. Partly cloudy and cold tomorrow 
with a high in the upper teens. 
CamR==u==s=~ 
3:30pm ,_mini-course, "introductory jcl," 115 math bldg. 
4 pm --slide presentation, "christian ministry in the national parks," lib. aud. 
4 pm --lecture, ''the impact of labor e~o!lor~~cs on strategies for raising the rate of growth of product1v1ty, dr. lester thurow, m.i.t., 122 hayes-healy 
6 pm --wrestling, nd vs. indiana state, ace. 
6:30 pm --meeting, sailing club, 204 o 'shag 
7:30 pm --amencan scene cultural senes, "the challenge .to women serving in the public sector: the role ~f the communtty services administration,'' graciela olivarez, dir. c..s.a., carroll hall smc 
8 pm --basketball, nd vs. fordham, ace. 
8 pm --lecture, "the dawn of aw~eness," prof kenneth sayre, nd, galvin aud. 
8:15pm-" concert, philidor trio, library aud., $1 
TEL AVIV, Israel (AP) • Pales­
tinian gunners shelled Israeli 
villages from. hases in southern 
Lebanon agam yesterday and 
Israel answered with an artillery 
barrage and a warning that 
Lebanon will suffer more than 
Israel if the shooting continues 
along the volatile border. 

Many Israelis living along the 
69-mile frontier spent the day in 
bomb shelters. 

A school in Kiryat Shmona took 
a direct hit from a Katyusha 
rocket moments after 400 pupils 
and their teachers descended 
into shelters. The Israeli border 
town of Metulla, five miles from 
Kiryat Shmona, also was shelled, 
but no injuries were reported. 
In Beirut, the Lebanese gov­ernmem summoned the ambas­sadors of the five big powers fo the U.N. Security Council and demanded they put pressure on Israel to stop firing rockets and artillery shells across the border. 
The high command of Y asser 
Arafat'~ Palestine Liberation Or­
ganization claimed Israeli forces 
shelled the port of T yre and the 
inland city of Nabatiyeh in a 
''major escalation of hostilities.'' 
In Jerusalem, Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan warned that Israel would not "stay helpless against the PLO. " Defense Minister Ezer Weizman was reported by Israel Radio to have warned that Lebanese civilian populations would suffer if the Palestinian attacks against Israeli towns con­tinue. 
A competent source confirmed that Wetzrrian had issued the warning during a briefm~ of the Parliament's secret Foreign Af­fairs and Security Committee. ' "He said the PLO should remember that the power of Israeli artillery is several times stronger than theirs," said the source who asked not to be identified. "If the PLO attacks continue, it may not be only Israeli settlements that are hit.'' 
In the guerrilla-controlled Lebanese port of Tyre, 15 miles north of the Israeli border, dis­trict administrator Ghassan Haidar said Israel pounded the town with an "intense random bombardment'' of heavy artillery 
FThe Observer 

Night Editor: Margie Brass£/ Asst. Night Editor: Patsy Campbell Layout Staff: Scoop Sullivan, Ann Monaghan, Rod Beard Sports Layout: Gr~g "jour­nal" Solman, Beth "Legend" Huffman, Frank LaGrotta Typists: Tncia Meehan, Nancy Morris, Betsy Masana, Katt'e Brehl Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Katze Kilkuskie Copy Readers: Mark & Mike Ad Layout: David E. Wood, Flo O'Connell Photographer: Mark Muench 
The Observer [USPS 598 920[ is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary s College. Subscriptions may be purchased lor $20 per year [$10 per semesterj from The lbserver. P.O. box 
0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Seconct class postage paid. Notre Dame. In­diana 46556. 
1he Observer is a member of the Associated f'ress. All reproduction .rights are reserved. 
and surface-to-surface rockets. denied Tyre was shelled but 
"People fled to orange anc sources said Israeli artillery bom­banana groves. Many took barded two Palestinian bases in refuge in basement shelters," the Tyre area, Bouj el-Shimali the Lebanese official said. and Ras el-Ain, both within two 
Israel's military command miles of the Lebanese port. 
. 

ATTENTION SOPHOMORES! 
There will be a mandatory meeting for all those interested in working on the Mardi Gras booth tonite~ at 6:30 in the Rathskeller. Both constru<~tion & <'ostu me design will be discussed. This is 

your chance to get involved & do something as a class!! 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT GUS-1047 or AMY 232-7131
, _______________, 
I CLIP THIS COUPON!!!! . \
IRIVER CITY RECORDS I 
I I
South Bend's largest Record & I Tape Selection ~ I
I I
Concert Ticket Headquarters 
I $1.00 OFF! ~ I
I COUPON ~ I 
I Any ~bum or tape with this coupon. Limit 1. Now thruJan. 31. II Not good on cut-outs, imports or other sale items. J 
1 ND/SffiC checks accepted for up to 1 1 JlO.OO over purchase amount I 1 1 16,000 albums and tapes to choose from I 
1 Peach crates available 1 
I River City Records I
I I
50970 u.s. 31 North, 3 miles north of Notre Dame Open 10-10 7 days a week -I 277-4242\ 
~---------------' 
The Observer Wednesday, January 24, 1979-page 3 

Due to the heater located n'ght behind the display rack, many records at the Bookstore have been warped. (Ph(.lto by Mark Muench] 
Huddle discover rats 
by john McGrath Senior StaffReporter 
A furry intruder, in the forri; of a small white rat, somehow made its way into the Huddle during the San Francisco bas­ketball game last Thursday night. The restaurant's mana­ger does not seem to be too concerned however--in fact he may have found a new house pet. . 
"I can' r sav tor 100 percent sure that it (the rat) didn't get 111 some other way, but I'm pretty sure somebody must havt: lt:t rht: thing loose in hert:, · · remarked Jim Thlacker, Huddlt: manager." 
Accordng to Thlacker there were few patrons in the esta­blishmt:nt at the timt: of the incident. 
The manager of the newly renovated restaurant explained that he received a telephone call reponing that a rodent was loose in the area. He remarked, ·'I became suspicious when the caller was so. persistent in trying to get my attention. Thlacker speculated that the rat was planted inside the Huddle as a practical joke. 
The Observer office also received ·two calls the same night reporting the situation. 
Following the telephone tip, Thlacker began a search of the Huddle lookmg for the reported visitor. The hum ended when he locate ..l a small white ball of fur shivering in the corner near the South entrance of the restaurant. 
When asked if he had know­ledge of any previous rodent problems in the area, Thlacker remarked, ''I've heard of rats in the underground steam system, bur if there were any rats around here, we would have noticed them out back around the garbage cans by now.'' 
He discounted theories that rhe rats may been stirred up by construction work in the vtcinity of the old fieldhouse, and added, "I don't think ther.e are too many white, wild rats running around." 
Thlacker said that once he located the intruder he got a small box, filled it with lettuce, and placed the rat inside of it. He described his captive as about six in length. 
''The poor thing looked so scared that I just decided to take him home with me·,'' Thlacker mused. ''Now the only l?roblem is how i:.; white rat is gomg to get ;1long with my black cat.' ' 
HPC talks on issues 
by Tom jackman StaffReporter 
The Hall President's Council held its weekly meeting last night in the basement ofFlanner Hall, and discussed, among other things, the Toronto Exchange program sign-up, and the guidelines for the Srudent Body President and Vice President elections. 
The legality of the $250 penalty for failure to fulfill a housing contract was questioned by one of the council members. Chuck DelGrande HPC chairman said that, according to the explanation given by Housing Director Edmund Price, the fine was designed to keep people who are "hedging" on whether or not to stay on campus to make a decision, and to provent students from breaking their contracts "en ma.Sse." 
DelGrande also noted that housing contract cards must be in by Feb. 2, anf from there it will be determined whether or not alottery will be necessary to alleviate overcrowding. 
DelGrande noted that nearly every spot on the trip to Toronto next week ~ been taken, and that today's sign-up should fill all vacanctes. 
Rules for the SBPISBVP elections were distributed by Marc Woodward of the Ombudsman office. 
600 families to attend 
ND plans -weekend for parents 
byJohn Ferroli 

About 600 Notre Dame families are expected to attend the 27th Annua!Junior Parents Weekend, to be held Feb. 23-25. 
The chairman of the affair, Mike Kenney, is very enthusias­tic about the weekend. He explains that Junior Parents Weekend is a "chance to include the parents in the Notre Dame family." Moreover, it offers junior parents an "insight into srudent life at Notre Dame,'' says Kenney. 
The weekend begins with a cocktail dance on Friday, and Kenney notes that ''the emphasis will be on the dance element this year. " Parents can then attend collegiate workshops on Saturday morning, which will give them an opportunity to learn about their son's or daughter's srudies. 
The main event, the Presi­dent's dinner, takes place Satur­day evening. Speakers include Fr. Hesburgh and Dan McCurrie, Junior class president. This year Kenney has also organized hall receptions following the Presi­dent's dinner, which he feels is "a nice way to wrap up the evening." 
Kenney emphasizes that the amount of support and assistance he has received from the admin­istration has been beneficial. Guidance from Jim Gibbons, director of Special Projects, and John Reid, director of Student Activities, has been especially significant. Fr. Mario Pedi, assistant director of Student Ac­tivities was also ''very helpful'', Kenney notes, with his organiza­tional advice. Kenney lauds the 27-member committee he works with and mentions that it has done "the bulk of the work." 
The only problem Kenney and his committee encountered was a contract dispute with Colonial caterers, the ftrm who will serve the dinner. This held up mailing for two weeks, but the problem has been resolved and Kenney is "very pleased with the results." 
The package sent to all Junior parents includes a special invita­tion from Fr. Hesbur~h, who "is especially enthusiastic about the weekend," says Kenney. Par­ents are required to make their own motel reservations, and 922 rooms in ten area motels are reserved for the weekend. Any questions regarding Junior Parents Weekend can be directed to Mike or the Junior class officers. 


oble~~
omaitS 
PIZZA 
& OTHER GOOD THINGS 
CORNER OF GRAPE ROAD S CLEVELAND 277-5300 $1.00 OFF EXPIRES '2!7179 
ANY LARGE DEEP DISH SICILIAN PIZZA 
. ' 

'· 

The Observer Wednesday, January 24, 1979 -page 4 
ENGINEERING SENIORS 




"OPEN HOUSE" 
McDONNELL DOUGLAS-ST. LOUIS THE LEADING AEROSPACE CORPORATION, IS HAVING AN "OPEN HOUSE" FOR ENGINEERING SENIORS INTERESTED IN LEARNING MORE ABOUT JOB OPPORTUNITIES 
• 
Talk with recent engineering graduates presently working with McDonnell Douglas 

• 
Refreshments 

• 
Movies-Fighter & Commercial Aircraft, Spacecraft, Missile Programs 

• 
Brochures of all aerospace programs 


7:00 to 9:00 PM 
Jan. 31,1979 Morris Inn, Blue/Gold Rm. 

--~ 
I I 
I 
I 
I
The Observer Wednesday, January 24, 1979-page 5 I 
In Washington 
Students tnarch in pro-life rally 
by Ann Hesburgh 

Through the effons of both Marianne Hughes and John Ryan, a total of 38 Notre Dame, Nonhwestern, and Nonheastern University. students panicipated in the Pro-Life March that took place Monday in Washington, DC. 
The trip to Washington official­ly began at 7:45 P.M. Saturday when members of CAMPUS (Coalition of American Profile University Students) left from Notre Dame circle on an es­timated thirteen hour bus ride to Washington. 
The stxth annual Right to Life March took place Monday, gath­ering over 80,000 SUJ?poners from universities and ctties all over the nation. 
The March began on the grounds opposite the south lawn of the Whtte House and it ended on the steps of the Capitol. The reason for the March was to protest the Supreme Coun' s decision of Roe vs. Wade which
L----------------------___.;;;__...:...J was a ruling in favor of allowing 
With the changing weather roads and walkways are icing causing hazards. This is being partially eliminated by spreading sand. [Photo by Mark Muench] 
Placement Bureau to begin 
season for job 
by Neal Patterson 
Next Monday the sprins semester placement intervtew season will begin as the first of over 250 scheduled employers will visit the campus. 
The names of the employers that will be conducting inter­views, as well as the scheduled dates, can be found in the 
1978-1979 Placement Manual and the Spring Supplement. Both of these booklets are avail­able in the Placement Bureau office. In addition to listing the dates of the interviews, the Placement Manual also states what jobs each employer is seeking to fill and the require­ments for prospective candid­ates. 
Throughout the semester, the Placement Bureau will also organize a number of pre-inter­view mixers. These allow stu­dents to meet informally with recruiters and attendance is strongly urged by the Bureau 
Students at both the graduate and undergraduate levels who are interested in teaching jobs in the future are advised to make use of the educational placement services of the Bureau and establish their own file there. The file should include a com­plete record of course work, faculty letters of recommen­dation, and credentials state­ments provided by supervising teachers. 
Richard D. Willemin, director of the Placement Bureau emphasizes that the Bureau can be of assistance ro students 
interviews 

wishing to enter graduate or professional school next fall by providing information about re­quired tests and scheduled inter­view dates. 
Also, those students who are not seniors and who are inter­ested in summer employment are urged to consult the Bureau. Complete lists of those employers who will be interviewing on campus for summer employees, as well as those employers who are interested in recetving re­sumes and inquiries from stu­dents who are seeking summer employment, are available at the Bureau 
Of special note are the summer internship opportunities that are available in many areas that provide students with valuable career ex{>erience as well as additionaltncome. 
For a very few select students there are a limited number ·of summer internship opportunities available with various depan­ments of the federal government, most of which are located in Washington D.C. Competition for these positions is very stiff and conducted on a nationwide basis. The application deadline for most of these government internships is Mar. 9. 
Willemin advises that any stu­dent who wishes to use the services of the Bureau in seeking summer employment should act soon so that any necessary inter­views may be conducted over spring break. 
The Placement Bureau is located in Room 213 of the Administration Building and is open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
the choice of abonion. 
In addition to the walk, the students were able to have face to face debates and discussions with Senators and Congressmen, in­
cluding the district's congress­man, John Brademas. 
Because his voting record shows that he favors proaborcion laws. Brademas was presented with the pro-life petition that had circulated both Notre Dame's and 
Prof lunch program starts today 
The ''Take-A-Prof-to-Lunch'' program will resume today, with co-ex tickets for professors or other University officials avail­able at the Student Government office on the second floor of LaFortune. 
FLANNER 
;o
New Low rn 
n 

Regular Prices 
0 
;o 
c
all $7.98 LP's 
en 
only $4.99 
all $8.98 LP's only $5.99 
Flenner Records 603 Flanner phone 4256 

mon-thurs 4:00-5:00 6:30-8:00 sun 6:30-8:00 
st. Mary's campuses last week. This petition contained over 
1. 500 student signatures. In addition to Congressman 
Brademus' visit, other Con­gressmen heard were: Senators 
Percy and Stevenson from Illi­nois, Senators Lugar and Bayh from Indiana, Congressman Lungren from California, Mazzoli from Kentucky, and Murphy from Pennsylvania. 
On Sunday, the group's bus pulled into Georgetown, where the students were offered the 

Follow Notre Dame basketball throughout the season in the ([hira!}o {[ribune 
For dorm delivery call 8648 -Rich Flaherty 


Saint Mary's Observer reporters, Wed. Jan. 24 at 6:30pm in the Observer office at Saint Mary's 
It is located in the basement 
of Regina South. Other persons interested in writing or other areas of newspaper work are encouraged to attend. 
Any questions call Ellen 5411 
opnon to either attend the Georgetown Pro-Life Sym­posium, or tour the city. 
Those who did attend the sym~sium participated in the followms workshops: "Clinical Counselmg", "CAMPUS" and ''Abonion: A Legislative His­tory." 
Those who chose to tour visited such places as: Th~ National Shrine of the Immacu­late Conception, The Smithson­ian Institute, the White House and Washington's Nationai Monument. 
of eirher institution. The news is EDITORlAL BOARD 
rt'ported as atcurarely and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............ Tony Pace Nf'ws Editor . . . . . . . . . . Diane Wilson as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor .... , ... Steve Odland Sports F.diror ............ Ray O'Bnen Hox Q Notrt: Oame, IN 46556 opinion of a maJority of the Edirorial Exemtive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chris Stewart 
Hoard. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Lang henry Photo Ediwr . . . . . Doug Christian Tht: Ob.wrver is an independent newspa­le!!ers are the views of their authors. Edirorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mills per published by students of the Column space is available ro all mem­Copy Ediror . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cackl_e) Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saim bers of the community, and the free Saint Mary's EditOF ...... PJien Budd'j Business M<fnager ........ john Tucker Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ &b Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 
_The Observer____ 
r-
r 
The Observer Wednesday, January 24, 1979-page 6 
I 
I 
I 
..' 
TEHRAN, Iran [AP] -Iranian Mohammad Reza Pahlavi's one officer called "anti-subver­military leaders marched the imperial soldiers, primarily for sive street warfare .'' elite imperial guard yesterday the benefit of foreign reporters. "Our job is to protect and in a bnstling, goose-stepping The soldiers shouted ''Long guard his majesty and the show of loyalty. They boasted live the shah! '' as they ran a government," Maj. Gen. Ali the troops were ready to "shed snow-covered obstacle course Nashat, commander of and their blood'' to support the and marched th.e high-kicking imperial guard brigade, told
Iranian monarchy and the government goose step. Others, clad in gas reporters. of Prime Minister Shah-pour masks, lunged at one another ''His majesty has left on Bakhtiar. with bayonets shwoing what another one of his regular One of the chief aides to
military 
religious oppostion leader Ar.a­tullah Khomeini, meanwhile, warned that unless Bakhtiar resigns in favor of the Ayarul­marches lah's planned Islamic republic, 
strikes will continue to cripple 
[Continued from page I]
the nation's oil-based economy. the executive branch on any Khomeini is exl?ected to return houses of Congress;'' proposed poli~:y. cha':lges affect­3( President Carter violated
Friday from Pans after 15 years inmg conunuauon m force of
to show the Dole-Stone Amendment of the Mm.ual Defense Treaty of
in exile. 

the International Securities
On the advice of the Iranian 1954." 
Assistance Act of 1978, signed
military, Britain's Royal Air Rice explained that never 
into law by him on Sept. 26,
Force plans to evacuate more before in the history of the
support 
than 200 foreigners from the oil 1978. The Amendment states: United States has a president, 
"the Congress finds that the
center of Ahwaz today. About himself, terminated a treaty 
continued security and stability where there has not been eitherhalf of them are American oil 
industry workers who will be ofEast Asia is a matter of major a breach by the other party; a taken from the strife-torn area strategic interest to the U.S... supersedure of the treaty by a to Bahrain, on the Persian Gulf. it is the sense of Congress that later law or another treaty; or a 
In an unusual show, the there should be prior consulta­situation where it has been military paraded 1,000 of Shah tion between the Congress and impossible to abtde by the 

J j " j s 'J ,. r a j 

·~Ml'wt.U\lMIMT' 
Slimline Tl-50 rM Slimline Tl-25rM 
Performance and price are the keys in choosing a calculator. One of these Texas Instruments slide-rules is right for you. 
Capability. Quality. Value. The right shows you how to use the power of feature helps prevent accidental bat­combination can help you make short statistics. financial math and program­tery drain by turning off the calculator work of problems in fields like math. mability in analyzing relationships in after approximately 10 minutes of engineering, science and business· data. verifying quality and perfor­non-use. With imitation leather wallet, statistics and give you more time for mance, measuring change, forecast­$40.00*. other important things. Choose the Tl ing trends and projecting returns ... in 
calculator that's right for you and get short, how to make better decisions, Slimline Tl-25. Slide-rule power at a small ahead of the game. today and tomorrow. Calculator and price.book combination, only $50.00*.
Tl-55. Advanced slide-rule functions with Economy and value go hand-in-hand statistics, programmability and valuable with the Slimline Tl-25, a pocket­
Slimline Tl-50. Apowerful, stylish slide-rule
problem-solving applications book. portable LCD scientific calculator that
with new Constant Memory™ feature. 
has what it takes to handle advanced The versatile Tl-55 calculating system The pocket-portable Slimline Tl-50 is math. It provides the most-neededis packed with the features and func­today's most powerful liquid crystal slide-rule functions. Trigonometry intions you need to handle almost any dispi(Jy (LCD) slide-rule calculator. It degrees, radians or grads. Plus basicmathematical operation, from loga­has 60 functions including common statistical power, too: Mean, Variance, rithms and trigonometry to advanced and natural logarithms and six trigo­Standard Deviation.
statistical problems. Thirty-two steps 
nometric operations that can be per­
of programmability add new dimen­Three levels of parentheses can formed in three angular modes (de­handle up to three pending operations 
sions of accuracy, speed and ease to performing repetitive calculations and grees, radians or grads). to make your work easier. Four-key "what-if" analyses. You just teach the Seven built-in statistical functions memory allows you to store and recall Tl-55 a series of operations and it per­make it easy to "boil down" large values, add-to memory contents and 
• 

forms those steps for you. amounts of data so you can perform exchange stored and displayed accurate analyses and draw reliable numbers.
For more help in making quantita­
tive decisions, the ~ :r conclusions. The Tl-25 goes far on a pair of min­Tl-55 comes with D•llloe:......,. 
Two constant memories retain their iature batteries-includes APD™ cir­contents even when the calculator is cuitry. Vinyl wallet included, $33.00*. 
the Calculator De-=~A 
turned off, so frequently used con­See the complete lineup of Texas
cisiof! -Making ~ 
stants and other basic values are at
Sourcebook, a $5.00 
Instruments slide-rule ~ 
value. The book,140 ·• • your fingertips when you need them. calculators at your dealer pages of easy-to-
Two miniature batteries provide today. There's one ex-understand, real-
over 1000 hours of operation in normal actly right for the work life applications, :§&~• 
use; Tl's APD™ automatic power down you're doing. 
Texas Instruments technology-bringing affordable electronics to your fingertips. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCORPORATED 
·u.s. suggesled retail price © 1979 Ti!xas lnslrumenls Incorporated 45628 
vacations and the troops see it that way. When his majesty comes back, the troops will be here, ready, as always, to shed their blood for him." 
Bazargan,  who  represented  
the  Ayatullah  in  negotiations  
with  oil  workers  durin0  the  

·recent strikes, said there was a possibility of violence 
• • . Carter 
treaty due to circumstances not of our making. 
The Constitution requires a two-thirds vote of the Senate for ratification of a treaty, but it is silent as to the means of termination. It is also silent as to the means of resolving a power struggie between the executive and legislative branches in matters of foreign affairs. 
According to Associate Pro­fessor Kenneth F. Ripple, also a professor of constituuonalla~ at Notre Dame Law School, the Sup..:eme Court has never squarely ruled on the specific issue involved in this case. 
One reason for that absence of a ruling, says Ripple, is that suits of this natur are unusual ones and raise serious ques­tions as to whether or not the Constitution even contempl;lted that the courts would ever consider such issues. 
R.A. party 
reshedules for later date 

The pqrty for resident assis­tants from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's scheduled for Thursday has been temporarily postponed due to a problem with securing a location. The party will be rescheduled in the next two weeks, and all R.A. 's will be notified of the new date and location. 

The Observer -Sports 
Wednesday, January 24, 1979-page 7 
Prepare for ND rematch 
Belles down Manchester 
by Beth Huffman Sports Writer 
Back in action with their first game of 1979, the Saint Mary's basketball team victimized Manchester College in an over­whelming 57-42 win, last night at Angela Athletic Facility. 
Martha Kelly paced SMC in scorin~ with 14 points. The Belles bench-strength proved an importanr factor in the victory with each member of the 
· sqaud contributing time on the court. Diane Klucka and Diana Bury both came off the bench to aid their team by hitting for 13 and eight points, respectively. The Belles were plagued with turnovers and scoring lulls that at times lasted as long as seven minutes -both factors which may be linked to the long Christmas break and little avail­able practice time thus far. In first half action, Saint Maris pulled ahead early and built its kad to 8-0. Manches­ter failed to score until a little over four minutes had expired on the clock, then Peg Kling, senior captain for Manchester, put them on the board with the first of her game-high total of 
22 points. Martha Kelly then tallted with her eighth straight point for the Belles to return the 
Belles' lead to eight. 

With only five minutes gone, and the Belles leading 10-2, Manchester was forced to call a time out to gather strength. However the brief retreat did not serve to diminish the Belles' momentum, as SMC increased its lead to 17-8 and Manchester was forced to call yet another time out. Saint Mary's and Manchester contin­ued to exchange goals amid a massive number of turnovers and missed shots as the half neared its close. When the mid-game buzzer sounded, the Belles still held a commanding lead with a 29-18 margin. 
Meg Holland started the scoring off in the second half for SMC on a fast-break lay-up for the first of her eight points. Martha Kelly then took over the attack by leading her team with three straight baskets, while dominating defenstvely and through her aggressive rebounding. 
After Kelly's spurt, a scoring lull descended over the court. 

The two teams battled score­
lessly for a minute, then Man­
chester took advantage of the 
Belles' turnovers by rallying 
with eight unanswered points. 
With a little more than eight 
minutes remaining in the game, 
SMC Coach Dallessio took a 
timeout to confer with his team. 
The Belles had not scored for the past seven minutes, but Coach Dallessio's pep talk evi­dently did its job, as Saint Mary's team returned to the floor and began to rebuild its · lead. Diane Klucka and Diana Bury paced the team by scoring eight and six points, respec­tively, in the final minutes of the game. 
The Belles are nervously anticipating a tou~h match-up when rival ND visns on Satur­day. Coach Dallessio of Saint Mary's termed the Irish team ''the best he has seen so far this season, without a doubt." But, Coach Dallessio feels his team has the ability to make the coming rematch a close contest. 
The Belles are hoping to pay back the Irish for a 71-54 _romp· in the ACC last December 11th. 
ACaOII DOWN 26. Tl.htly 
cl~hande 
27. Swear 
C
1. Oppc.e 1. Punue: 2 28. Communlllt 
7. CiUe wda. hero 
R 

11. l:llmlnated 2. -Puo 29. Spoke in u a poeli-8. A moment: low tones Qbillt;y: 2 wda. abbr. Sl. Exaeted 
11. Tramp 4. llareh daye revenge: 2 

14. -top li. Co0110lee wds. S 
lli. Cuala' iD-6. Sheer silk 82. Mailed llt.rwneDt fabrlca 84. Natena S 
16. 
Grew old 7. Herring (up) 


17. 
Hwnllual "relative" 86. Crumpled W 


19. Time v£ 8. Roman robe lumps :youth aDd 9. Follow 88. Tablet ~~on: onlen1 89. Opera aolo Q)( llterl 10. Ban-holdel'll 40. Acreage
21 · '~i ~ 11. Healthy 41. Very black R tbe~~ lnir:.. 12. Frog's 42. Middling: 
28 Yield kin hyph wd. D 
2i au. with 18. SonglltreAII, 46. ViiiOOUII · nftre Lena _ substance S f»ntment 20. Exclude 60. "-the
26

ao: Court game 22. Beach view people. . . . " ~ra--r;;-""'"r.~ 
11. Quit: 2 wda. 
88. Lipstick ehadee 
84. Ontario's capital 
86. Chide 
17. Humorilltll 
38. Une~of bold clltrll 
41. Clear profit 
U. Shah's coun­
try 
46. 
Turf mla­plaeed by a golt'er 

47. 
Coneemlnc 

48. 
Chain eeg­ment 

49. 
Teetered 


61. Gentle­woman 
62. 8h:mbered noisily 


WELL ON£ DAY. .. AGAINST 

Yesterday's
OUR HAJOR Rl\l4L'"I RAN A 

T ro THE RIGHT INSTEAD answers AN IN-OJT TO THE LEFT 
All classtfied ads must be recetved by 5.00 p.m .. two days prior to the issue m which the ad is run. The Observer offtce w111 accept classtfieds Monday through Friday. tO:OO a.m. to 5:00 p.m All 
cla>>lfteds must be pre·paid. either in person or through the matl.
Classifieds 
Notices 
Printing: guaranteed lowest prices anywhere. Resumes, posters. quality work. Student Union's Campus Press. Basement, LaFortune, under the dell. Open 1-5, 5 days. Call 7047. 
Fast. accurate typing at home. Call 272-7866 after 5 pm. Closeby. 
SKI-Lessons now forming for all hiterested ND-SMC students. For Infor­mation call Bob Ballard 272-7749. 
Experienced typist will do all types of typing. Call 272-1401. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Bedford 288-2107 Hours: 8am to 5 pm. 
ATTENTION ALL LOGAN VOLUNTEERS AND INTERESTED STUDENTS. The first Logan Dance of the semester will be held this friday night from 7:30·1 0:00 pm in the Logan Center Cafeteria Come for an hour or two and help the mentally handtcapped have a great time' Put on your dancin' shoes and join in on the fun. Ltve mus1c and refreshments for everyone' Questions call Mike at 1371 or Sue 41-4832. Decorations help needed for Logan Dance this Weekend 1 Decoration making party will be held thursday, January 25th, at 
7.00 p m. at Logan Center. Questions 
call Mtke or Sue. Like to Bowt·: Help the mentally handicapped 111 their bowlmg league Fridays from 3:20·6:00 pm. Rtdes leave ND·Library ctrcle at 3:20pm. Questions call Mike or Sue, 1371, or 41-4832. · 
Lost&Found 
Lost-Room Keys i405 with padlock attached phN 7912 Cab anyone help me find my green army jacket which walked away from Saturdays Morrissey party 3610. 
LDst before X-mas break: a pair of woman's glasses In whitish case with blue, orange and brown flower design and gold cfasp. If found please contact Usa at 1345. 
NO class ring at Indian Creek service plaza on the Ohio turnpike Call 1050 to Identify. 
Lost Wallet In Bio Bldg. Keep money but I need the rest PHI 7912. 
Found-1student B-Ball ticket Call 8629 to identify. 
Lost: Gold Longines Pocketwatch. Sentimental value. Big reward. No questions. Call Jim 2164 after 11. 
Lost before X-mas break: Pair of black EMS down gloves probably in Engr Aud. Please call Frank at 3584. 
For Rent 
2 rooms together. $45.00 near riders. 233-1329. 

Wanted 
NEED RIDER (S) To ANN ARBOR THIS WEEKEN'D 1/26/79 Call 41-5140. 
Need a GA tickets for any weekend basketball game. Call Nancy 41-4809. 
Wan'ed: 2 GA tix for Dayton game will pay reasonable price. Call 3089. 
Wanted: Female roommate. Campus view apts. $90/month. Call 277-5261. 

Part Time Sales and Merchandising Opportunity 
Looking for an opportunity to earn extra money while learning sales skills? This opportunity may be ideally suited for you.Well known consumer product manu­facturer with a wide variety of name brand confectlonary products IS seeking a candidate who will work 1D-15 hour per week contacting on-campus and near campus retail outlets. Please express your interest by calling collect 313-761-4476 after 5:30. We are an EOM Manufacturer. 
Urgent! need ride to D.C .. weekend of Maryland game. Will share driving and expenses. Help! Nancy 6786. 
Need ride to sandusky exit of East 1-80 Jan. 26-28 or any other weekend. Will share driving and expenses. Jeff 1624. 
Wanted: Des~erately need 2 GA tix to 
U.C.L.A. for parents will pay your price! I 288-1561 
For Sale 
FOR SALE 

Big, great speakers for sale call 3322 or 3321 Bernie. 
for Sale: 3-piece !Jrown sectionaL Excellent condilton. $150.00 Call 291­3177. 
USED BOO!< SHOP. Wed .. Sal., Sun. 9·7 Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Road Niles. 683·2888 
Tickets 
Two GA's for sale-vs-Fordam. Buy em and be there. Special rate for SMC chicks. 3087. 
I need any UCLA tlx call 4-4908. 
Need 1 student or GA ticket for UCLA Call 7409. 
Desperately need Dayton BB Tickets student or GA will pay good money Call Larry 1205. 
Need 2 or 3 GA tix to the Dayton B-Ball game on Feb. 3. Call Mike 3889. 
Need 3 tix for Dayton game. Call Cindy 5762. Desperately need! 
Help! Bobby desperately needs 4 (padded seats) UCLA tlx $$$! Please call 7607 
Need 4 GA tickets to dayton game. Feb. 3. Call 8554. 
Need 2 Dayton GA tickets call Joe 8588. 
Desperately need 1 or 2 student or GA UCLA tix. Call 41-4103. 
Personals 
Kevin. Hope you had a super birthday and had lots of fu~ eating pizza last night. Lots o · Luv. Lynda 
SMC HOLY CROSS SKI TRIP SIGN-UP Thursday 6-9 rm 229. 
Memorial Mass in celebration of Michael Madden Class of '78-10:00 pm.. Keenan Hall, Thursday, January 25. 
.. .For the best ride call Corky ...For the best odds call Kevm . For the best re-hash call Joel. 
Mandatory meeting for St. Mary's Observer reporters. Wed. Jan 24 at6:30. Basement of Regina South. All other interested persons encouraged to attend. 
Moral Supporters, Thanks for everything In the past week. Einstein is most pleased. 
Love, Mike 

Attn. Dodge City, Kansas, Thanks for a marvelous Christmas and New Year. Love, SMC Ed. 
TOM­

There's a guy who wears light blue bunny suits, takes boys In red chiffon dresses to semi-formals, throws up in the ocean and starts aclub about a fish. Now is that NORMAL?? Happy Belated B-Day 
Welcome back to all Amen Inc. members! Buy stock now. 
HAPPY BELATED B·DAY JANICE!!!!!! 
To MBA students and faculty-Thank you for your thoughts and support during my absence. It's good to be back. 
Catherine 
Dan Letcher. 

Here's vour name in the paper-you. prima donna reporter you. Your article on su director in yesterday's paper was· wonderful-even thouQh they left out your by lme 
·The Midnight Skulket 
'77·'78 lnnsbruw··· and fnends of the commissioner-announcmg the 1979 all star game. Frt. 8:15 pm. 732 St. Peter Fasses' Call 8857 or 1212. • 
HI KATHY K. SMILE!II!I!!II!!Il!!!!i!!l 

Wednesday, January 24, 1979 -page 8 

Forward Kelly Tripucka: ·the traditi-on continues 
by Bill Marquard basketball talent, where did it all basketball every day for two or Sports Writer start for Kelly? three hours while their Dad ''I've been playing basketball watched from the f>Orch or did
The name Kelly Tripucka has 
since kindergarten. I used to yardv:ork, always wuhin referee­
become virtually a household 
play on the full court behind our mg distance for when rhe games
word to many an Irish fan. The 
grammar school, almost always would break up into r,:-ir mevit­
freshman phenom who earned a 
with kids who were older than I able arguments. 
starting berth midway through 
was, since my brother T.K. was "My Dad's favorite arbitrator
last season, only to be named 
in the second grade at the time. was a garden rake," quipped
NCAA Midwest Regional MVP as 
"In fifth and sixth grade we'd Kelly.
he guided the Irish to their 
g~t out for lunch,at 11:30 and the And it was most often Kelly
first-ever appearance in basket­
main-thing was to get home in that was in the thick of things
ball's Final Four, has a lot to live 
five minutes to eat and be back whenever there was a dispute.
up to in his second year. 
by 12 so that we co~d get in a /"Everyone picked on him,"
Yet when one comes from such 
half-hour, full-court game before recalled Todd, laughing. "He
a tradition-steeped family as the 
the bell rang. We played as late was the littlest and had to take
Tripucka's, excellence is 
in the fall as we could and started everything we gave him.''
expected and the average perfor­
again as early in the spring as "Yeah, I'd say I got pounded a
mance is virtually non-existent. 
possible. Those were the days." lot by my brothers,'~ chided Kelly 
Father Frank quarterbacked 
It was at this same time that with a whince. "In fact, I guess I 
the 1948 Irish to an undefeated 
Kelly began to play organized cried a lot as a kid, but that
football season. Eldest brother 
basketball for the Brookdale developed my game.''
Tracy is the leading scorer in 
Grammar School team. ·'When we weren't playing
Lafayette cage history and was an 
"We played a four-game sche­basketball we were more often
assistant coach at Fordham Sister 
_dule. Every Sarurday morning than not in the field behind our
Heather holds the family single 
we'd drive over to play at another house playing football. We'd go 
game scoring record with 57 
local school. Those games were out back with our oversize
points in a girls iptramural game. 
the big thing. You know, go to T -shirts and big shoulder padsBrother T.K. plays for Fordham, 
tonight's Notre Dameopponent bed early Friday '"light and get up and jeans--you had to have Sarurday, put on yourwarm-up jeans--and act like the big high
Brothers Todd and Mark played 
jacket and the old uniform that school players, because they
for the same Bloomfield High 
they gave you. It was your first were the stars back then. 
School team on which their other 
uniform and your Mom bought "I played football in juniorbrothers played. 
you your first pair of white high, but I decided not to when I 
Macor.] ' Yet, in the midst of all this high-top Converse sneakers. got to high school. Our coach And back then you wore your liked to run the ball a lot and I knee pads on both knees and was a eassing quarterback, so thought you were big_ time."_ our philosophies differed too 
"It was very evident from the much. I even got a couple of 
scholarship offers for footballfirst day of practice that Kelly
"Who's 'number one?' 
from Georgia Tech and Ken­would be, at the very least, tucky, but I wanted basketball."
all-state,'' remembered Dick 

And when it came time to pickNiblett, his coach at North Junior a college, Notre Dame seemed aHigh in Bloomfield, N.J. 
logical choice for the player"We went 32-1 the two yearsSo, you think you're "number orie", huh? 
whom AI McGuire had touted ad Kelly played for us, losing ourSure you go to all the basketba~l games, or the ''best prepared freshman he 
most of them, anyway. You yell when everyone 
Frank only game in double overume. 
had ever seen."
He was another Tripucka, butelse yells, stand up when everyone else stands ''I just grew. up seeing Notrewas even one step ahead--he was

up, cheer when everyone else ch~ers. Then, LaGrotta Dame. Everybody did. The Irish 
destined to be a big-time star."

with the game safely m hand, Y?';l Jump to your were on television all the time,To be named all-state in soccerfeet, point your finger to the cetlmg and chant: 
there and watch them. whether it be football or basket­
in high school and to set school

"We're number one!" 
When South Carolina erased a ten-point Irish ball. I can remember sitting right 
track standards in the javelin (211Not bad, huh? Digger and the guys shouldn't 

lead last Saturday and went ahead, 17-16, I there in front of the TV watching
feet) and high jump (6-6) while

have taken so long to get here. It's fun to be 
heard a Chicago sportswriter, stacing at the Joe Theismann and Terry Han­
lettering three times each in both "number one," and it sure is a lot. easier than 

student section, ask--"Why aren't they on their ratty and as soon as the game
SJ?Orts is enough to ask of anybeing number three or four and trymg to move 

feet? Why aren't they cheering? Isn't this was over going outside to imitate
high school athlete, right? 

up...at least for the students. 
Notre Dame?" them.
Not so for Tripucka. He set six 

But let's face it.. .it just isn't the same Well. ..isn't it? ''It was the same with basket­
team records in basketball while

around here. Not at football games or basketball AND WHILE WE'RE TALKING about being ball. I watched almost every
averaging 28.4 points in his 

games or hockey games or anything. The Notre number one and everything, many people in the game on TV, especially UCLA
career. He was an all-every­

Dame student body many times called the business of handing out post-season awards to since it was the rivalry. Austin
thing, including a two-time all­

"greatest" s~~dent 'body m the w?rld, isn:t athletes are making a big mistake. Carr, Sid Catlett, Collis Jones-­
America choice. He was only the living up to 1t s reputation. They JUSt aren t They're forgetting Terry Bradshaw. ' fourth player in New Jersey prep

cheering "for old Notre Dame" like they used UPI, The Sporting News, Gtlette, and most they were my heroes. Growing
history to notch over 1,000 points 

to. other organizations, chose Earl Campbell as the up with Notre Dame all around
in a season. And he scored 54

NFL's premier personage of the past season, like it was, I just dreamed of
What's that? You don't agree? Well then, if points in one game.
overlooking the fact that the Pittsburgh Steeler going there, visiting there, even
you're a junior or senior ask yourself this ''Kelly had to ·be the most
field general turned in one of the finest athletic being lucky enough to go to
question: When was the last time you saw aggressive and most talented
performances since Timex invented the stop­school there. ·
anything like the ND-San Francisco basketball player we've ever had,'' nofed
watch. ''When I fmally realized that I 
game played when you were freshmen and Bloomfield High coach George 
sophomores? Not recently, huh? Bradshaw's statistics were phenomenal: 207 Cella. "His build, his ability to was going to have the chance to Oh, sure, there was the USC football game completions on 368 attempts for 2,915 yards and jump and his big hands were all play basketball almost anr.where 28 touchdowns. His 56.3 percent completions valuable assets. He could even I wanted, this seemed like the
two years ago when everybody got excited about 
the green shirts and all. And what about all ratio was the best in the NFL and his scoring dunk as a so~~omore. best place personnel-wise, pass total set a new league record. player-wise, recognition-wise,
those streamers we threw at the last couple 
Yet, Kelly still reflects fondly and schedule-wise, besides
basketball games? So, what should an "MVP" really be. Well, 
on the backyard pick-up games offering the chance to win a 
I see. Notre Dame's students need a gimmick I'd say he's the player who does the most good he had with his brothers, where national championship. They'reto get excited about, huh? Or maybe they only for his team. Bradshaw led his team to a Super the competition was even more 
just super about everything
Bowl championship. Ironically, he whipped Earl 
"get up for big games?" . intense. · here."
Campbell'~ team rwice en route--including a
Think about that one for a mmute. What ''Those pick-up games with my Although Irish coach Digger
34-5 drubbing in the AFC Championship game
would you say if you heard Dig~er or Dan say brothers and friends really Phelps left much of the duty of that they ''only get up for the btg games?'' in which Bradshaw was superb and Camfbell's shaped my game. The basket recruiting Kelly to his assistants,
most glaring stat was three fumbles--a! reco­
Well, I have some news for you. \Vhen you was attached to this bent silver Digger was certainly influential 
are "number one," every game is a "big vered by Bradshaw's team. post that was about eight inches when it came to Kelly's fmal game." Listen to the coaches and look at the Now don't misunderstand. I don't want to be thick. My father built pipes 
decision. 

players who come into the ACC to play the accused of saying that Campbell is not an coming out of the regular base "He was a killer right on the 
"number one-ranked Fighting Irish of Notre ?Utstanding football player (something that pole that made the basket stick spot. You know, big smile andDame." Fer most of them, a win here would mevitably hapJ?ens when you initiate a discus­out like you'd see in a regualr 
winking at you--he like's to wink
make their season a success. Remember when sion such as thts.) I just think that an "MVP" 
gym. It really gave the court a at you. It's sort of a sign that,
DePaul's Gary Garland called last season's Blue ?r ~ '.'Plarer of the Year'' should be the single perfect effect. hey, he's ready to go and give his Demon win at Notre Dame the "biggest thrill in mdtvtdua who does the most for his team. "Once that basket was broken 
pitch.''
his life?" It probably was...and we weren't Whether Bradshaw did more for the Steelers in, just like a new mitt, it felt real Somewhere . between an even ranked "number one" back then. than Campbell did for the Oilers is like asking good. It got to the point where 
asphalt court behind Brookdale But we are now. And if we're going to stay :who would win if God fought Superman. There you could not miss on that Grammar School and the convinc­there, the cheerleaders are going to have to do re~lly is ~o right answer. It depends on your basket. If only I could carry it ing wink of Digger Ph~lps came 
potnt of vtew.
more during time-outs than run to center court around with me now--I'd be the evolution of Kelly Tripucka-­and build pyramids. But with the season Bradshaw (and the deadly." Notre Dame's freshman t>henom And we're gonna have to do more than sit Steelers) had, I just think he deserves a mention. The Tripucka boys used to play turned sophomore· sensation. 



