The Irish Extra -pages 9-12
' ' ' 



by Laura L. Lan'more 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Secretary of State Edmund 
S. Muskic will deliver a foreign policy address, open to the publtc, in Washington Hall, Saturday at 10 a.m. This, marks the first appearance of a : Secreatary of State on campus: since Cordell Hull visited Notre: Dame in 1934. 
Muskie is appearing under the ausl.'ices of the Center for Continumg Education. 1 
Muskie will be introduced by: Congressman John Brademas; (D.,). Both will be guests of Father Theodore M. Hesburgh 1 later that afternoon at the I N.D.-Miami football game. i Brademas and Muskie were, honorary degree recepientsl from Notre Dame in 1969, and 1 
the Secretary ofState presently serves on the Select Commis­sion for Immigration alfd Refugee Policy chaired by Fr. Hesburgh. 
Due to vehicle restrictions in force on football Saturdays, a limited number of special stickers allowing access to the campus and parking near Washington Hall will be avail­able in advance to the general public. These may be obtained at the information desk of the CCE. Parking is also available in the fee lots used by the football fans. 
Secretary Muskie, sworn in May 8, 1980 as the 58th Secretary of State, began his political career in the Maine House of Representatives, elected to terms in 1946, 1948, and 1950. There, he served as 
Iran suffers casualties 
Iraqi forces destroy installations 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP)-Iran bombing two hospitals in Ahwaz, settlement of the war, President claimed Iraq fired missiles into 70 miles to the south. Mohammed Zia ui,-Haq of two Iranian cities yesterday, in­With the war in its 18th day, Pakistan said yesterday. The 40­flicting the highest casualty toll both sides stepped up diplomatic nation Islamic Conference asked of any action in the war. Both efforts. Iran said it planned to Zia to try to arrange a mediation sides were dispatching envoys in send a delegation to friendly effort. The Yugoslav news an effort to enlist support from countries to explain Iran's stand agency said Chatti was in other countries. and thatlranalso hoped toputits Belgrade for a conference on 
In Washington, the State case before the U.N. Security Islam sponsored by the United Department said the Soviet Council. Nations. Union, and possibly other President Saddam Hussein of In Tehran, Prime Min;:.ler Warsaw Pact nations, was send­Iraq, apparently seeking outside Mohammad Ali Rajai told 'a ing supplies to Iraq through the aid or new mediation efforts, Japanese television correspon­
Jordanian port of Aqaba. sent envoys to six countries­dent that "America is in no way Spokesman John Trattner said Turkey, Greece, India, Saudi concerned" with the 52 he did not know what types of Arabia, Kuwait and Italy. American hostages held in Iran supplies the Soviets were send­Western diplomats in Ankara since Nov. 4. Rajai was quoted by ing. Moscow has said it was said they believed Hussein's en" Tehran Radio as saying in the remaining neutral in the conflict. oys requested Turkish mediation interview that "even if all 
Iran, which claimed up to 180 to end the .conflict. (hostages) were killed, America killed and 300 wounded in Iraqi Secretary General Habib would not consider it important, missile attacks, reported major Chatti of the Islamic Conference for it uses them as a pretext for gains in the central sector of the was to go to Tehran and Baghdad any, action to advance its inter­front. President Abolhassan in a new effort to promote ests." Bandi-Sadr told Tehran Radio "we are entering the final phase of the war." Revolutionary leader Ayatollah Khomeini said victory was certain and rran 
SMC Student Government 
planned to replace the Iraqi regime with "an Islamic govern­ment'' in Baghdad. 

announces budget allocations 
Iraq said its forces "continued to destroy enemy installations," but Baghdad did not confirm by Mary Leavtft that it used Soviet-supplied Saint Mary's News Editor Neighborhood Study Program ground-to-ground missiles for $650 the first time in the conflict. Saint Mary's Student Gymnastics Club $500 
Baghdad Radio said Iraqi Goverment allocated $4105 yes-Beta Beta Beta $400 forces were "destroying vital terday to nineteen campus clubs, Right to Life Club $400 military and economic installa­according to Kathy Kanehann, Social Justice Club $300Minority Leader during his tions" at Dezful and that the city student government treasurer. Business Club $250second and third terms. From in the central sector-of the front This amount exceeded the initial Government Dept. Model UN1951-52 he was the State 
"is at the mercy of our ground budget intended for allocations $200
Director of the Office of Price Stabilization and from 1952 to fire." Iran said Dezful was hit by by $905. Fun and Learn Center $100 missiles and also accused Iraq of "We are not at all unhappy SMAACS $100
(continuned on page 3) 

about going over our planned Social Action $100 budget," Kanehann said. "We WorldHungerCoalition$100 felt that the clubs were deserving SNEA $80 of the funds, and the money will Irish Club $75


Fr. Toohey remains 
be well spent." Communications Club $50 
This year, allocations was French Club $50 handled in a different manner. In German Club $50 previous years. the Student Convent Volunteers $30 
I


in intensive care unit 
' Assembly handled allocations. Nursing Club $20 Because the Student Assembly All appeals should be made"His illness is like a roller! 
By Marty Mosby coaster situation; it changes I now rests in a proverbial limbo, a before the upcoming break. board made composed of cam-
daily," Fr. Len Banus, local Fr. Bill Toohey remains in superior of the Holy Cross 
pus leaders and -:-:-=-============­
both student critical condition in the intensive Community, commented. 
faculty, handled the budgeting. 

B • • h 

During the allocation hearing, a n tlS according to an official Campus of Campus Ministry at Notre 
care unit at St.Joseph's hostpital, During his ten years as director 
representative from each club Ministry report released Dame, Fr. Toohey has touched: requesting funds explained how • yesterday. many who are now showing their I the potential allocations would economtst 
His neurological and vital signs concern for him. i be utilized. have stablized since Monday "Phone calls have been com-1 The board relied on specific when surgery was performed to ing in from all over the country," guidelines to reach financial de­lectures 
relieve intracranial pressure on John associate cisions. Money granted depend­
Fr. Fitzgerald, 1 the brain. director of Campus Ministry, 1 ed upon the plan ofexpenditure, by Paul McC:in11 Earlier in the week, doctors 
the number of students that the confirmed that Toohey is suf­
said. 

club would reach and how well David McDonough, an avid"The communnity, in the fering from" encephalitis caused broadest sense of the word, is established,the club was. writer and well-known spokes­by herpes simplex virus", but no "It was hard in some cases to man of Great Britain'svery conscious of Bill's condi­further clinical details have been make the allocations, but we feel Conservative Party, yesterdaytion," Banus explained. "I sus­released. 
that we were fair and are happy spoke on economic woes caused pect a great many people like Important questions such as myself have offered every mass with the results," Kanehann said. by political policies to a group ofwhy the priest fell ill remain since last Wednesday for Bill," he students and faculty in theunanswered; however, it is cer­added. 
Clubs have the right to appeal Hayes-Healy Center. 
tain that' this type ofencephalitis Fitzgerald and the Campus the allocations within ten days. He has authoredis not the common type spread Ministry staff, however, are 
Club leaders dissatisfied with the "Constituency Campaigningby mosquitos. · dealing with the illness as best 
funding should appeal to -A Guide for All PartyThe Campus Misistry office they can. "We've notgotten used· Kathleen Sweeney, student Workers"-the official hand­has made a practice of distribut­to Bill's absence, but the office 
,government president. book of Margaret Thatcher's last
ing daily medical updates in an can't be paralyzed. We are taking Following is a list of the clubs campaign for Prime Minister.
effort to keep rumors to a turns with going to the hospital which received allocations: Giving reasons for Britain'sminimum since there is an aura while still making certain that transformation from capitalsism of uncertainty surrounding Fr. our work gets done," he Logan Center Volunteers
~oohey's illness. concluded. 
(continued on page 5)
l ,$650 

+ --··-:.;=~:::~ ~...,...,-~,.,~:::;. ~· 
-.~~· 


News Brie h 
Friday' October 10, 1980 -page 2 
~b~y~T.~n:e~O~h~s~e:r~~e~r~a~n~d~T.~n:e:A~s~w:c~ra:t~ed~P~r:N:s::;=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~::::::::::::~~::::~~~::J 
Inside Friday 
About 300 workers will return to work Monday at both the General Motors Corp.'s Delco Electronics plant in Kokomo and Guide Division plant in Anderson, company officials say. Delco spokeswoman Marilyn Grant said yesterday, 194 Kokomo workers will be called back Monday as GM gears up for its 1981 production. Normally, 11,000 workers are employed at the Kokomo plant, she said, adding that 400 remain on indefinite layoff. About 1,500 workers have been recalled to the plant sinceJune. In Anderson, 103 workers will return to work at the GM guide Division, company spokesmen said, attributing the call back to increased product demands. Officials there say 587 workers remain laid off, but 1,056 have been recalled since June. Indiana & Michigan Power Co. yesterday simulated an accident at its Donald C. Cook nuclear generating plant off the southern Lake Michigan shore near Bridgman, testing workers' responses and the readiness of local law agencie officials said. The federal Emergency Management Agency will issue a report on the drill to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which demands that Berrien County have a disaster plan that meets its require­ments, tne' utility said. 
A treatv on friendship and cooperation was signed byPresident Hafez Assad anaSoviet President' Leonid I. Brezhnev yesterday in the Kremlin, Tass reported.The signing was held shortly.after Assad arrived in Moscowon a three-day official visit. There were no immediate details on the contents of the pact, but Syrian -sources in Damascus had reported earlier that the treaty included military pro­visions.Assad's visit and the friendship treaty with the Soviet Union were seen by diplomats here as the culmination ofalong drive by the Kremlin to gain a foothold in the MiddleEast, and as a bid by Assad togain firmer Soviet backing inhis troubled foreign and domestic relations. -AP 
The Humane SocietyoftheUnitedStates has sent a telegram to Neiman-Marcus protesting the de­partment store's Christmas catalog, which advertises "his and her" baby ostriches for $1,500. Humane Society President]ohn Hoyt said Wednesday the birds are an endangered species are "not an appropriate gift." "The ostrich is not a living version of Sesame Street's 'Big Bird,' nor should it be considered in the realm ofconsumer products .... These are birds whose numbers are dwindling in the wild and who should not be used as giant feathered trinkets for people ill-equipped to raise them,'' Hoyt said in the telegram. Ostriches are large birds, growing as heavy as 300 pounds. They are extremely illtempered and are known to give a forceful kick either in greeting or in anger, he noted. The Sultanate of Oman has given Georgetown University $1 million to establish a professorial chair in Arabic and Islamic literature. Presenting a check to university president Timothy 
S. Healy yesterday, Omani Ambassador to the United States Sadek Sulaiman said the Sultan of Omn, Qaboos bin Said, "believes it is only possible to understand the contemporary Arab world by having an appreciation of the Arab and Islamic culture ofearlier periods." The university said the new chair will be used to strengthen the teaching of Arab and Islamic literature and the Arabic language at its Center for Contemporary Arab Studies. Liberia, which imports all its crude oil, was granted a $5 million loan by the World Bank yesterday to help the African nation prospect for oil in its offshore territory. The loan will permit a new seismic survey of 1,550 miles of Liberia's offshore land where scientists believe petroleum might be found. The loan is for 20 years and carries an annual interest rate of 9.25 percent. ' ~ 
Requestin!! oolitical asylum a cuban man and womariile~ an Havana-bound tour group that got off an East German jetliner during a refueling stop here yesterday, officials said. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police said they would hold the woman in protective custody until they determined whether she wanted to return to the plane or stay in Canada. The Interflug plane, carrying the group from East Berlin to Havana, remained at the airport pending further developments, officials said. 
Business exec­
utive from Bendix Corp., Mary Cunningham resigned yesterday, two weeks after the rapidly promoted, 29year-old woman denied that she was romantically involved with the company's chairman. Ms. Cunningham, vice president of strategic planning for the nation's 88th-largest company, said in a statement that the controversy surrounding her promotions and relationship with Bendix chairman William Agee "impaired my ability to carry out my res­ponsibilities." Ms. Cunningham's friendship with Agee became a subject ofnational gossip when, on Sept. 24, Agee announced her latest promotion and told a meeting of some 600 headquarters employees that her rise in the company stemmed from her ability and not from any personal relationship. 
.Partly sunny and mild today with a 20 percent chance of showers. High in the mid to upper 60s. Partly cloudy and cooler tonight. Low in the low 40s. Mostly cloudy and cool tomorrow. High in the mid to upper 50s. 

TheChurch vs. changing inores 
I am told that copies ofThe Observer rarely reach the Vatican these days, but I think those folks would find our recent McNally Poll, which ac­curately reflects student thought on the subjects of birth control and contraception, most inter­esting. 
The. poll, published Wednesday, shows that Church teaching on the issue of abortion has indeed taken hold: 62 percent ofall studentswould never consent to an abortion for either themselves or their partner. Church teaching on contra­ception, however, is another matter and one that should not be linked to the abortion issue. On tpis subject, 65 per­cent of the students voiced their rejection to Church wisdom, a scant 28 percent agreed, and 8 percent showed no opinion. 
An Associated Press story we ran on the same day provided a larger view ofthe issue. It reported a 76 per­cent rejection of Church teaching among American Catholic women, all of whom use contraceptives, many of whom are presumably married. 
For Catholic clergy, this question must be a tough one. The same AP story on Wednesday reported that only 29 percent ofAmerican priests really believe contraception to be immoral. How do they handle the question then? Perhaps some handle it the same way Fr. Hesburgh did three years ago when, during a speech on campus concerning population control, he announced: "I am a Catholic, and I am a priest. But I don't see how anyone can be against birth control-in one form or another.'' 
This statement, examined closely, is meaning­less. The phrase "in one form or another" includes abstinence, and using the phrase "birth control" rather "than "contraception" reinforces the ambiguity. The strong affirmation of his faith and position in the Church, followed by the word "but" suggests some possible break with con­ventional teaching, though the phrasing that follows suggests none. Thus the listener may interpret the statement however he or she wishes, 
Mark 
Rust 
Managing Editor 


which is precisely what the audience-most of whom believed in contraception-reflected in the rousing ovation that followed. . 
How then should young Catholics respond to a ban they find unrealistic? Where should they turn for a measure ofperspective? And how should one 
respond to a young Catholic who feels he or she is somehow apart from the Church_ due to a be­lief held in common with so many others of the same faith? 
This is a peculiarly American problem, and that perhaps ex­plains' dre lack of di­rection from the clergy and the insensitivity of the Vatican. Changing sexual mores and its attendent effect is a sociological, rather 

than theological phenomenon. As more countries find their population growing out of control, as more economies absorb women into the work force, as more women dedicate themselves to further study and professions and delay marriage and families, the problem will become less an American peculiarity. It will surface in France, in Germany, in Italy: even in Poland. 
It is a cultural problem then, and the Church, like any institution, has frequently been bound by culture. Scripture records certain prounounce­ments of Paul's, in his letters, which today seem bizarrey but are less so when one realizes he was operal.!fng on the assumption that an apocalypse was imminent. The medieval Church abounds in examples of pronouncements rescinded hy later Church leadership. 
In the meantime, and I don't think I'm an­nouncing any great secret, there are a large number of well JUeaning, very sincere, very Catholic young Catholics who are at first guilty, then reflective, and finally alienated by a ruling with which they neither understand nor agree 
***************************with. And they do not understand that they can 
* 
B-*remain Catholic and dissent from official Church 

* 
uy ~teaching, as so many clergy have done. ~ -* It's really a shame that the Vatican isn't on our* o~l.,c-erver *subscriber list and won't see our poll. If they had, 

* 
VJ *they might have found a measure of solace in the * • *fact that the number ofNotre Dame/Saint Mary's 

* 
Qassi£ieds ::stud~nts with. Ch~rch


who. disagree teach+ng, ~ *relatlVe to nattonal averages, ts qulte low. 
*************************** 

!>e.rfgq F.dttor ....... Dr. Margaret Kruse 
nc•sign A.r.rirtants.  . Mary· motown' Dumm,  
Steve 'OB' O'Brien  
Loyo11t Stoff  ......... Matt Dolan.  

John Kromkowski !lo)o/Night Technkions.. . Bruce Oaklev. 
Kathy Crossett NeU's Editor .... Margie Brassil l.'opy Editor. . . Mary Fran Feat11re.r La)'otlf. ............... . 
. Molly "term paper" Wolfe Sports Ln)'OIIt . .......... Michael Ortman Tvpists ..... Kathy Murray. _Katie Bigane Nil lltil' Editor . . 
Rvan "tied'" Ver Berkmoes clossifiedr Lt~vrmi . . . ... M.A.K Supplement Lo)•out ........ Beth Huffman (;Nest Appt•arances . . Zeke the wonderdog:, Where are you, Sal Granata?, PTDPATRO. uncle sparky. kimba, and all the breakfast kids!! 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FOR ALL YOUR FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS~A CALL (219) 284-5891 
,. ~­
the PLANTS & FLOWERS shop 
'"ORIGINAL DESIGNS WITH YOU IN MIND"' 
I 

Located ON CAMPUS (leMans Basement) NO delivery charge to SMC $.50 for group delivery to ND 
SAVE SS ordermg together 

~dng this ad for 
20% off ANY $5 or more 
purchase (can be 'group purchase) 

open 9:30-4:00 M-F 
SAT hours to meet occasion 
----------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------­
The Observer IFriday,.October 10, 1980 -page 3 


Barnes outlines rape prosecution Needed: 
by Diane Mazurek 
In response to a growing con­cern for rape, University organizations last night present­ed a workshop designed to develop a betkr understanding of rape in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. 
St. Joseph County Prosecuter Micheal Barnes (ND '63) out­lined the steps a rape victim takes after the crime. Although the neccessary tests can be taken up to 72 hours after the assault, it is extremely important that they be perfomed as soon as possible. The police should be informed immediately to insure a prosecu­tion. A rape victim is assigned a prosecuting attorney by the State to whom heshe then con­sults to file the formal charge of rape. 
The attorney then reports to a judge in order to obtain a warrant for the defendent's arrest. 
Approximately seven months will pass, Barnes explained, be­fore the case comes to trial. The trial is usually a very trying situation for the victim as the 
• • .Muskie 
defence asks what the 
Assistant Design Editor 
Prosecutor called "some very pointed questions, some very graphic questions". 
Due to Indiana's Rape/Shield 

]or fhurs. ntghts 
La-o;y, which defines rape as any sexual activity against the will of the victim, evidence of the 
PaidPosition -Late n1ght work 
victim's total involvment in re­pelling the attack need not be proven. Thus, odds favor the For more info, prosector, according to Barnes. 
If found guilty, the defendant 
can serves from two to SO years in can ]ohnat8661or1947 prison depending upon the degree of damage done to the victim. The person who was raped could receive as much as $10,000 from the State for actual damage under provisions in the 
SUNDAY MASSES 
Violent Crime Compensation 
AT SACRED HEART CHURCH
Bill. 
CC!R)PUS

Responding to a question, 
m1n1Stry

Barnes strongly discouragd the use of weapons for defense. He 
5:15 p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, c.s.c. 
said that use of a gun is con­
9:00 a.m. Sunday Rev. Austin Fleming 
sidered a Class A misdemeanor in 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. David Tyson. c.s.c.
the state of Indiana. He added, 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. Austin Fleming 
"Many times the ways students conduct themselves make them prime target for those so inclined (to crime)." , 
An~one with information about a rape is urged to contact the Sex Offense Staff (SOS) hotline anytime at 232-3344, Psychological Services' crisis hotline at 7336 or Security at 4444. 

(continued from page i) 
1956, he served as the Demo­cratic National Committeeman. 
After two terms as the Governor of Maine, Muskie was elected to the U.S. Senate in 1958. During a twenty-two year stay in the Senate, he served on the Foreign Rela­tions Committee, the Govern­mental Affairs Committee, the Environment and Public Works Committee, and as Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Budget. In 1968 he was the Democratic Party's candidate for Vice-President. 
Married to the former ] ane Gray of Waferville, Maine, Muskie has five children. He is also ·the author of the autobiographical Journeys, published in 1972. 
Muskie was born on March 28, 1914. He was graduated cum laude from Bates College and received his J.D. from Cornell University Law School in 1939. 





PolishpoetUJins Nobel Prize 
STOCKHOLM • Sweden (AP) The 1980 Nobel Prize in litera­ture was awarded yesterday to Czeslaw Milosz, and exile poet, novelist from Poland who ,be­came an American citizen 10 years ago. 
Milosz~ 69, professor of Slavic lansuage at the University of California at Berkeley, was cited by the Swedish Academy of Letter as a writer of "un­compromising clear sighted­ness.'' He was honored for his extensive poetical works in the Polish language as well -as for 
his prose. 
This was the second time in three years that the academy chose a writer with roots in Poland. THe 1978 literature prize went to Polish-born Isaac Bashevis Singer, a master story teller writing in Yiddish in New York, many of whose works are set in Poland. 
Milosz, the third literary No­bel winner in the Polisg lan­guage-after Henryk Seinkie­wicz 1905 and Wladyslaw Red­mont1924-said in Berkeley that he was "touched and honor­ed.'' He said he planned to accept the $212,000 prize 
money here Dec. 10 but his wife, who is "sickly," probably 
would not be able to accom­pany him. 
Milosz-whose name is pro­nounced Ches-love Me-Josh, said he still writes in Polish but now also translates his own poetry anbd ot~er .. works i~to English. He sa1d translation is a great problem for a poet'' and his poems are perhaps best appreciated only by those who master Polish. 
Last year's winner, Greek poet Odysseus Elytis, also translated his own works. The last American writing in Eog­glish to receive the award was novelist Saul Bellow 1976. 
The literature award was the first Nobel prize announced : this year. The prize in ~edi-I cine will be announced Fnday, j th~ peace prize in Oslon "Mon­day and the remainder later I next week. .. 
The academy cited Mliosz, born in Vilnius in what was then Lithuania but is now part of the soviet Union, as a writer "who with uncoml?ro­mising clear-sightedn~~s v~1ces man's exposed condmon m a world of severe conflicts.'' 
Academy secretary Lars Gyl­lensten, responding to qu~s­tions from reporters, demed there was any P?litical connot:'l-

HUNGRY? 
Try Popeyes spicy delicious caJun menu. Delivery service available to campus from: 
TOm • Grace Hall· 2'187 Kevin • Grace Hall· '164'1 
2 pc., roll &honey-96¢ 3 pc., FF, roll &honey-$1.90 10 pc. bucket..Qt. Pepsi-$5.29 12 pc. bucket-Qt. Pepsi-$5.99 
Tailgater Special Available 
~0-16-24pieces ~oPe~es 
FAMOUS IIIRI.D CHICK•N 
1636 N. Ironwood 
tion or connection with recent developments in Poland. That country continues to undergo political shuffling resulting from extensive labor unrest during the summer. 
"He got the prize on his literary merits, not because he is an ex-Pole," declared the academy spokesman. 
---------,--------­
The d6server -=;::;__ Fnday, _October 1o, 1980 -page 4 ... 
-....... ..........
~ 

Netu f1/tenlpt at osmosis for 11pcoming. midterm exams.(pboto by john 
,lfaan) • 

Bustamante to speak 
Dr. Jorge Bustamante, an in-O'Shaughnessy Hall. An infor­ternational authority on the mal discussion of Mexican view­issue of undocumented workers, points on undocumented will discuss current immigration workers will precede the public research in Mexico ata 3:30 p.m. talk at 12:15 p.m. in Room 340 talk today in Room 341 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
...... 

CHICAGO (AP)-For 15 . ­years, Donald Lang has been trapped in a legal maze of courtrooms, jails and psychi­atric facilities. Never m that time has he uttered a word to indicate he knows his future is at stake. 
He can't. A 35 year old deaf 
============= NDOrchestra. opens season 
The Notre Dame Orchestra will open its season with a special Introduction to the Or­chestra on October 12 in O'lau­ghlin Auditorium. There will be two performances, a child­ren's concert at 1 p.m. and a campus concen at 7 p.m. These concerts are a young people's guide to the on:he­stra, with an introduction of the inustruments. 
The orchestra, directed by Adrian Bryttan will play T~­ikowsky' s Symphony No.4 m F minor movements n and m. Night on Bald Mountain by Mussorgsky, and Peter and the Wolf by Prokofieff, which will be narrated by Rev. Roben Griffin. Rev. Griffin will also give an introduction fur each of the instruments before the performance of Peter and the Wolf. 
acesm~ 

_,._ ., Deaf/mute battles legal system 
IS WEEKEND AT THE NAZZ••• 
. 
FRIDAY-TO BE ANNOUNCED SATURDAY-9:00 LORI DEITRICH 
ANN BOURJIALY 
10:30 ttNEXT" BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE-.__.__. FREF 
WHO SHOT M.O.? 
Benjamin Beaurevers -the philandering millionaire? Madame Beaurevers -the cheating wife? Josefa -the scorned lover? Morestan -the hardened clerk? 
Find out. A SHOT in the DARK FRIDAY and! SATURDAY, Oct. 10 S II WASHINGTON HALL 

8:00 p.m. 

More everything than Dallas! 
with limited sign language training, rejected by the public schools, Lang cannot speak or communicate effectively. 
But Lang's advocates will soon learn whether he will stand trial on charges of mur­dering a prostitute in 1971, as Circuit Judge Joseph 
Schneider is expected to rule 
on the issue within a few weeks. 
The subject of a book and a television movie, Dummy, Lang has already waited most of his adult years for lawyers, doctors and judges to decide about his life. 
He was first charged in the 1965 stabbing death ofa prosti­tute, but the case was dis­
missed  in  1971  because  of  
ques­ 
tions  about  his  competency,  

because some witnesses were dead, and some evidence had been lost. 






I!iii 
Lang was released, and five months later, another /rosti­tute was fatally stabbe . He was convicted ofher murder in 1972, but the Illinois Appellate Coun ruled in 1975 that he should be retried once he can aid in his defense. 
He's has some training since then, but Ken Fletcher, a public defender, says, "W can't prepare a defense obviously. You've got a man here who most likely has no concept ofwhat it means to be held for trial or what it means to be in prison." . 
··we can't even commum­cate (that) we're working on it (Lang's defense)," said ano­ther public defender, Don PaulL "He just waves us off. I'd like to be able to have five minutes to explain what we're doing for him. We don't even have 10 seconds." 
Lang's attorneys say the indictment should be dismissed because Lang has been denied his constitutional right to a speedy trial. Even if he c~n be taught to communtcate, Aetcher says, it might take­three to five vears. 
That would.put the triall2 to 15 years after Lang's arrest. 
"Our position is that at this rime, whether or not Donald Lang can be made fit is a moot question,'' said Fletcher. ''No matter what we do is too little, too late." ., . 
Experts have tried to deter•···• ..~ mine if Lang can ever learn enough to help with his de­fense. 
Two psychologists and two psychiatrists have told the court that Lang cannot under­stand enough to communicate with his lawyers and know what's happening at his trial. But a doctor hired by Lang's brother contends that with three to five years of intensive work, Lang could stand trial. 
Even if Lang can be taught si~n language, said Paull, "he will have passed a critical stage in development that he will never be able to explaing thinss verbally,that,Jlappeped to hun when he was non-ver­bal." 
Lang does make his wants known, and what he wants is to ~o home. But almost everyone mvolved agrees that home is not the place for Donald Lang. His mother is dead, his father is ill, and other relatives can't care for him. 
"He puts three fmgers in front of his face, like bars, and shakes his head...meaning he doesn't want to be in jail," Paull said. "He makes move­ment with his fingers in front of his mouth ... like the talking of lawyers and judges. He's tired of them. 
"We're not recommending that he hit the streets," said Paull, who argues the former dock worker should be put in a training facility. 
Mark Epstein, attorney for Lang's brother, Julius, agrees supervision is needed. "We're hoping that the state will come forward and say, "We'll take over the training.'' 
He says Lang needs daily sign language training and should be given a year to see how he progresses. 
And Epstein says Lang should stand trial: "either his inocence has to be established or the truth has to come out to show he paid his debt so he can be accepted in society.' ' 


FRIDAY 
A.A.A. meeting 
(attitude adjustment afternoon) 

MICHELOB 
(12 oz. can) 
SATURDAY 
. OPEN lOam UBLE 

The Observer Friday,.october io,-i98o~page 5 
. .... 

On opponent 


Carter eases attack 
by Associated Press 
President Carter went public with a softer, toned-down at­tack on Ronald Reagan yester­day, but independent John Anderson declared, "It's to late," and insisted the President's chances of holding on to the White House are fading. 
Carter's rhetoric was milder 
as he began a two-day Southern 
campaign swing in Tennessee, 
while Reagan, in St. Louis, 
declared, "I am an eniron­
mentalist ... .I am for clean air." 
The Republican candidate, however, renewed his attack on the Environmental Protection Agency, which he said some­times insists on "unreasonable and many times untried stan­dards" to clean up the air. 
Reagan also turned down an invitation by a Tampa, Fla., television station for a "joint appearance" with Carter when both r.1en are in Florida today. Carter accepted.c.the proposal, in which he and Reagan would answer ques&ions from different locations, but Reagan's be no deal unless Anderson included. 
The independent candidate campaigned in New York, where he told a news confer­ence that Carter apparently had concluded that his "base and almost desperate attacks" on his rivals are not succeeding, so he is changing his tune. 
Anderson blasted Reagan for making "an obvious and cal­culated effort" to move toward the center by abandoning "long-held, far-right 
r Christian Law_yers' Forum 
The St. Thomas More Law Colloquium was founded _ in 1978 as the "Christian Law­yers' Forum." It sponsors sev­eral meetings each semester for dialogue about issues at the crossroads of law and faith. 
· 
positions." 
Carter's new, gentler campaign became apparent as soon as he landed at Bristol, Tenn. 
Absent was his previous as­sertion that Reagan's election could split the nation along racial, regional and religious lines. 
In its place was: "I want to see the nation united. North and South-united. Black and white-united. Rural and ur­ban -united." 
The President adjusted his style after his campaign ad­visors concluded that the sharper anti-Reagan language of the last five weeks was back­firing. 
Later, the President told a "town meeting", he disagreed with Reagan's suggestion that the United States has no choice but to stay neutral in the Iran/Iraq war. 

Tranquility The lake becomes during the week before break the quiet place where one bides from the busy days ahead. 
========================= 
...MclX>nough 
(continued from page 1) 
to socialism, McDonough cited 
the inadequacies of the 
Conservative and Liberal post­
World War II governments. 
"Ofall the grievous woes from 
which Britain is suffering, far 
more are caused or partly caused 
by errors in economic policy ... 
and the great thing about eco­
nomic factors· is that... they are 
equally the ·easiest things to 
identify and to offer a remedy 1 
for. Most economic errors in 
Britain have been directly the 
fault of government," he said. 
McDonough further com­
mented that government's duty 
is to indirectly hold down in­
flation through limited spend­
ing. Through th.is process, other 
problems can bf~ more adequate­
ly tackled. 
"Once ym ve got inflation under check...then your social and moral and political problems and all the spin-offs can with luck, under that umbrella of the right e,onomic policies, find a new and better level," he said. 
Quoting Keith Joseph, the Secretary of State for Industry, McDonough summed up the Conservative Party's philosophy about curing the ills of society, "T~1e end of inflation wouldn't 
. sulve our other problems, but it would create an environment within which they will be sol­vable in the course of time." 
Considering the views which led to the present state pf affairs in Great Britain, McDonough indicted the administrations of the post-war period with charges of "poisoning" the system through, "progressive, direct taxation, ... nationalization, ... the welfare state, ... laws which pro­duce an anti-enterprise culture, ...a heavily politicized trade union movement, that ceased to be representative years ago,.. .and I egalitarianism, the idea you can create a structure of society through the statute books." 
UNITED WAY STUDENT CAMPAIGN 
..WE'RE ALL IN THIS TOGETHER" THANKS TO YOU ALL 
ND STUDENT BODY HALL CHAIRPERSONS HALL PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL SECTION COLLECTORS ND STUDENT GOVERNMENT JAY TRAVERSE 
SEAN'S COLLECTION CREW
BR. JOE McTAGGART GARY MULDOON
PICTURE PEOPLE (above) 
HALL COMMUNITY SERVICES HALL VICE-PRESIDENTS 
LOUf/SE NVE DIR. (good luck Sean Digan and ~ Orie, next year's chairrytenl) 

The Best in 


Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 

for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00 P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 




University Park Mall and Town and Country­Mishawaka 
Friday,_October 10, 1980 -page 6 
TheObserver 
., 

....,. MISHAWAKA 259-9090 


Town & Country I 4 SHOWS DAILY 2-4:3.0-7-9:30 BARGAIN MATINEES ... ALL SEATS 1.50 1st SHOW ONLY 



Paramount Pictures Presents a Wildwood Enterprises Production "Ordinary People" Donald Sutherland. Mary Tyler Moore. Judd Hirsch. Timothy Hutton. Music Adopted by Morvin Hom Iisch Based Upon the Novel by Judith Guest. Screenplay by Alvin Sargent. Produced by Ronald L. Schwory 
RESTRICTED ~ Directed by Robert Redford A Paramount Picture 
R UNDER 17 REQUIRES ACCOMPANYING 
Copyright © MCMLXXX by Paramount Pictures Corporation. All Rights Reserved. 
PARENT OR ADULT GUARDIAN
'--_...____:_.:...:.....:._____:_:___;__ ____J 


~~ 
I I 
' 
...






Editorials 
Fpday,_October 10, 1980 -page 7 
Off Campus crime El~on rhetoric refreshes TV. 
The high incidence ofoff-campus crime continues to plague students, despite the positive efforts undertaken by both the South Bend government and the Off-Campus Commission (OCC) to allay break-ins and other elements of the problem 
South Bend Mayor Roger Parent's recent allocation of $30,000 to the city police force for an increase in manpower should abate somewhat the claims made by ND-SMC students that the city government is indifferent to their plight. 
The additional funding, taken from federal revenue sharing funds, will allow for 555 more man hours in a twcrweek pay period plus the addition of 11 new recruits to the squad, effective after they undergo the necessary twelve-month training period 
Parent, when requesting the funds, blamed the economic malaise of the nation and South Bend for the increase in the crime rate. Since the city force has been cut by 52 officers over the last three years in the interest ofausterity, his assumption appears to be on target And, when the crime rate increases, a near-skeleton force cannot be expected to keep up with the caseload. 
This sad state of affairs does not, however, absolve the department of its responsibilty to protect aU the residents of South Bend. Nor, according to City Attorney Richard Hill. should it. But Hill sees that a partial solution to the problem must involve the students taking a more active role in crime prevention. 
At a recent meeting called by the OCC to discuss crime pevention methods however, only a handful ofthe off-campus students attended. This apathetic response is shameful, especially after the students so quickly and so vocally cast aspersions on the city· hierarchy for its scrcalled apathy toward the students' situation. 
As Hill points out, students are an "easy mark" for robbery. They are not home much ofthe time and their relationship with 
· the rest of the neighborhood is not, for the most part, entirely congenial. Although this seems almost unavoidable because of the different lifestyles involved, neighborhood groups now forming to fight crime provide an excellent opportunity for students to open channels of communication. 
I Students, in the long run, have the final responsibility for 
I 
I their own protection. The police, with their limited resources, cannot be expected to stop all crimes before they occur. The beefed-up patrols should help, butdead-bolts offera surerform 
of protection.
r The police budget 'increase has already produced some results, as an undercover squad last week conducteda successful raid in the Five Points area. This indicates that the police are serious in their efforts to crack down on the situation, yet their reluctance to discuss this, or any, matter of public interest regarding crime, with The Observer staff ensures that a communication problem still exists. Their refusal to acknowledge the importance of an informed student body is irresponsible and less than advantageous to both the student0­C community and the police. ) Crime will not just "go away," and there will always be a disproportionate number of "bad guys" so long as students continue to leave the artificial shelter of the residence hall and reside in the "real world." The positive move made by Parent shows that students do have a voice in the community, even if they do have to yell more loudly to be heard Actions, though, speak louder than ·words. 

Michael Onufrak 
A couple ofweeks ago, my housemates decided that the time had come to purchase a color television set. Notbeinga bigTV-watcher, I was at fust reluctant to kick in my share ofthe proposed tube"s cost. But, after one of my housemates presented a most lucid and convincing argumen,t centering on the sociological significance ofThat s UIKRtli/J/~. and the intellectual merits of Dallas I was sufficiently impressed to go along with the whole scheme. 
Today, I am pleased to report that my lack of faith in the monolithic empire that is television, was totally unfounded. I have been_ impressed w~th local television; and particularly Impressed w1th two areas of.the local programming schedule: coverage of major sports and paid political ad­vertisements. 
SinceI have onlyabout halfa page to fill today, I will begrudgingly confine this column to a di_s­cussion of political advertising alone. Ifsp!lce d1d penrut, I could easily expound on the' sports programming possibilities which the month of October presents. After all, a month which features the end of the baseball season, the beginningofcollegeand professional football, and the pre-season and opening moments of hockey and basketball. is a potential media bonanza. 
With sports aside then, let's talk about America's other preoccupation, politics. Politics on1Vf'ust reached fruition in the 1950'swhen the Army-McCarthy hearings, although broadcast only in black and white, brought live drama into many American homes. Here TV served a good purpose by exposing Joe McCarthy for w~at he was, a bully. The image of McCarthy stoopmg to needlessly disriedit and slander a young lawyer on 
Joe Welch's legal team was an image that, :when conveyed visualJy, came across doubly effective. ~f the public had merely read about McCarthy s skullduggeryoreven listened to it on the radio, his image as a bully would never have come across as dramatically as it did. After the broadcasts, sup­port for McCarthy was on the wane and he eventuaUy faded into oblivion. 
The first recognized wizard of visual mani­pulation was, of course, John , Kennedy. Campaigningin the early Sixties, Kennedy was the first to reaDy use TV to his advantage on a national level It didn't hurt that Kennedy himself was a handsome man whose youthful image won him many votes when contrasted to the fatherly, lethargic image ofthe previous President, Dwight Eisenhower. Kennedy's use of television as a political tool reached a peak during his first televised debate with Richard Nixon. That debate portrayed a deariShaven, self-sure, vibrant Kennedy ""defeating' a sinister and inexplicably unshaven NixoJL The fact that the two men said basically thesame thing made no difference to the large televiSion audience which was intent on f'mding a ..winner." Kennedy's appearance alone dictated that he would be the recipient ·of this intangible media trophy and its accompaniement momentum.'' That tag also broughta lot ofvot.fs. 
As TV moved into the era of color, the candidates moved along with it. Candidates learned to use make-up, avoid looking into bright lights, memorize their scripts, and even play one network against another. Today, candidates hire media analysts and highly paid advertising manag­ers from reputable ad firms. These men produce ads and media "'strategies." Just as some genius decided to employ a slogan like 1The Pepsi. Ge.erllliolt~ to sell soft drinks, so did another genius decide that in 196Jj it was time for Nixon~ NOll! and in 72 time for fFour More Years. These sttategiesaredesigned for only one thing, and that istosdl thecandidatetothepublic. This year, with the level ofattack between candidates descending toa consistently ugly level, that sale is being made 
.at any cost. 
TheothernightasI was innocentlywatchi~g the eleven o'dock news, a picture of a Carnbean par.ulise flashed on the screen and a voice asked me, "Have you ever been to the Virgin Islands?" 
.. Before I could reply "No," and ask if this 

==Ihe
..~-.=Observer== 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46~56 
The Observer is an independent newspaper pubhshed by the studenrs of t~ University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint ~ary·~ C?llege. It~ not ~~ly reflect the policies of the administration of etthe~ m~urunon. "IlK n~ ·~ r~poned as accurately and as objectively as possible: Edtt~r~s repr~nt the.-opmaon _of a majority of the Editorial Board. _Com~entartes, opmtons, and k-ners aR t~ VI~ of their authors. Column s1;1ace 1s ava.tlable to all members of rk c~unuy. and the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through 1~. IS nKowaged. 
EJikJr-ifi-Chief •............... Paul Mullaney Mmulging Editor................ ... Mark Rust EJitorUJs Editor .............. , Mike Onufrak Sntior Copy Editor . ..•........... Lynne Daley E.x«Mtive News Editor .......... Tom jackman Nnus Editor . ................... Pam Degnan SMC Executive Editor .......... Margie Brassil SMC News Editor . ..............Mary Leavitt 
commercial was a plug for the stuggling senior 
trip, the voice proclaimed: "Bob Orr has. A~d you 
paid for it." The screen quickly flashed to a picture 
ofOrr, LieutenantGovernorand candidate for the 
state house, and then to a picture of his opponent 
JohnHillenbrand who, I assume, has neverbeen to 
the Virgin Islands. 
Now I have lived in twelve different com­
munities is six states and witnessed a lot of mud­
slining campaigns along the way, but this year's 
mess definitely stands below the rest. The 
Hillenbrand ad (actually an anti-Orr piece) is not 
only direct and hard-hittin~, but its sir:nplicitr is 
nearly poetic. The message IS clear: Orr IS the kmd 
of man who has violated the public trust. Just ask 
someone who saw him in the Virgins. I can't be 
certain if Orr is guilty of this crime as the ad 
implies, but at the same time, I do not ac~ept ~rr's 
own image of himself as portrayed m h1s ad 
campaign. 
In one of his TV spots, Orr is seen in rolled up 
shirt sleeves walking practically arm and arm with 
popular incumbent Governor Otis B~wen.. ~he 
leaves are changing color, the sun IS shmmg 
brilliantly, and it is clear that the Bowen-Orr team 
is responsible not only for the idyllic weather, but 
also for everything else that is good in Indiana 
Judging from the Orr ad, onecanonlywonderwhy 
someone would want to leave Hoosierland and its 
beautiful weather for the Virgin Islands. 
But the really effective rustic ad this year be­
longs to Birch Bayh. Bayh faces a tough match 
with Republican challenger Danforth Quayle. 
Conceding the traditional Republican vote to 
Quayle, Bayh's ads seem to concentrate on the 
working man and farmer's vote. Picture several 
hard-working, rural-type Hoosiers hunched overa 
tractor looking serious. Now pictture Bayh, long­
time Indiana Senator, hunched over the same 
tractor resplendant in 'denimljacket and jeans. He 
looks and he talks like a man of the people. And 
the effect is great, unless you've actually met him. 
I have. Twice in fact, and both times he was 
wearing a threepiece suit and talking not ina slight 
Hoosier draw~ but in an erudite baritone. That 
tone is something which one is bound to pick up if 
one has spent as much time as Bayh has in the halls 
of the Senate. My advice to Bayh is to leave the 
denim look to President Carter. He is much more 
believable in that role and he's a real farmer to 
boot. 
The most ambitious image which any candidate is trying to portray this year though, definitely belongs to John Hiler who is seeking John Brademas' Congressional seat This image of the young, imaginative, unsullied political newcomer comes across best in the eight-page piece of literaure which showed up on my door step about two weeks ago. This hand-outwas mostly pictures, with two particular photos defining the Hiler image. In the first one, Hiler is shown surrounded by his large, good~looking, clea~, intellig«:nt Hoosier family. The 1mage ofa senstble man With solid ideas born out of the tradition of the American family is easily perceived by the reader. And when you flip the page that image is consolidated when you are ill}~ediately stru,k by a picture of candidate Hiler ~·ttossing a foothali) 
Immediately the pieces falt together: Young, 
sensible, large family, athletic, touch football. 
Welcome to Camelot revisited. 
Whatever the results of this election year, I think one thing has been accomplished by the campaigns: Advertising has reached a new peak(or low) and TV.has become a lot more interesting. I only wish I was going to school in Texas to see Carter's TV package of ads in which he speaks Spanish. Carter's combination of a Southern twang and his galliant, though ultimately mis­guided, attempt at a Castillian dialect is truly hilarious. And that's what TV is all about, the drama ofaJohn Hillenbrand plug and the comedy of a Spanish Carter ·ad. 
Michael Onufrak is a senior from Malvern Pa. His weekly column appears each Friday. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Sports Editor .................. Beth Huffman' Features Editor ................. Molly Woulfe ,Photo Editor .................... .John Macor 
j&mitm Maflagn-............... G~g Hedges '((JTitroller....................•..•. .Jim Rudd Ativertinng Maflager . ....•......•... Mark Ellis 6rculatiofl Mtlflager........•.•.. Beth Hackett ·Prod11ction Managn-...•... : ... .john McGrath· 
I
r~ 
I I I 
I I 
The Observer 
• 0 0 


War and Peace 


ElectiOn·l980 
by john T. Nugent 
Will the 1980's bring peace or war to the United STates? It is evident from the campaign pronouncements of the current presidential candidates that this question will become more ofan issue as we progress toward election day. The Democrats, mindful of the excellent use made of this issue in the 1964 presidential. campaign between Barry Goldwater and Lyn-' don Johnson, will be reminding the public constatly that Jimmy Carter is the candidate of peace and that Ronald Rea~an's advocacy of "r.eace through strength" Is dangerous and wdl likely involve the United States in. another war. It is likely that this message will be brought to the Notre Dame campus durin~ Secretary of State Muskie's "non-political ' visit this week. 
In the study of modern world history, it is axiomatic that appeasement can be a cause of war. We may constantly quibble over what acrually constitutes appeasement, but we acknowledge the fact that a potential aggressor nation is tempted by a display of weakness by a potential adversary and is deterred by a display of strength. This strength or weakness may be expressed in terms of numbers of troops or we·apons, or in less tangible terms such as "national will" or "fighting spirit." Whatever opment, push the 1evelopment of the continent­spanning Backfire bomber and SS-20 nuclear 1 IRBM, and embark on a vast buildup of their conventional land and sea forces. •;surrogate" Cuban troops were sent to Angola and Ethiopia to consolidate and prop up communist dictator­ships, a Soviet combat brigade was trasferred to Cuba (probably to replace Cuban troops sent on the African adventures), Vietnamese forces invaded Cambodia and battled the Chinese, and in a fmal tribute to America's display of peacefulness, Russion troops invaded Mghanis­tan to install a totally compliant puppet government and to put down a rebellion by the Afshan people. 
Fmally shaken out of its three-and-a-half-year reverie, the Carter administration responded to this last Sovet move with a lot of tough talk about a Carter Doctrine, a boycott of the Moscow summer Olympics, and a curtailment (but not embargo) of grain shipments to the Soviet Union. We really punished them. 
Speaking on a recent ''Good Morning, America'' television program, Malcolm T.oon, former ambassador to the Soviet Union, succinctly laid out the reasons behind the Soviet responses to our peaceful example. When asked why the Soveits had embarked on such 
Fnday, october 10, 1980 -page 8 
U. S. abuses power 
In assuming the leadership of the Free World after World War II, the United States committed itself to the "con­tainment'' of Communist ex­pansionism, in order to protect the human and democratic rights of all free peoples. The Soveit Union, obviously enough, was the focal object to be thus continaed. Conse­quently, anti-Soviet rhetoric has ingrained in the collective American ego a "we-they" mentality; indeed, we have dangerously gone so far as to set up America as a dema­gogue in light of its just oppo~tion to Communistic ag­gressiOn. 
Through the progression of time, we have witnessed the unfortunate obscuring of Con­tainment's original intent. Rather than taking the initia­tive to build and sustain free allies as begun in grand fasion under the Marshall Plan, the focus of U. S. policy 
james Dunlop 
rights on two levels: first, they 
violated the national integrity 
by subordinating a popularly 
elected government; second, 
individuals in opposition to the 
Shah--political prisoners--were 
cruelly punished for their be­liefs via CIA-taught means. 
Awareness of this historical perspective raises many ques­tions. Why don't more people know the full historical story? Why hasn't the U. S. recogniz­ed its wrong-doings? And, finally, how can the hostages be freed? The answer to the first q·•es­tion is inherently tied to the representation of the Iran situ­ation by the press. The focus of attention has been almost solely on the hostage situation in the here-and-now, a news event with much sensational news appeal. Furthermore, American journalists assume an air ofnobility and patriotism as they relate the fate of the innocent 52 Americans. How­

the quantum of measurement, it is quite 
obvio4s that it is the perception of strength or 
weakness by the potential aggressor which 
either temps or deters its actions. A conntry 
may have the strongest military capability in 
the world, but if that country by its acuons 
forecloses the use of that capability it is 
perceived by the aggressor to be weakness. 
Such a perception tempts the aggressor to 
initiate some adventure against an Interest of 
its "weak" adversary. If that interest is 
considered by the ''weak'' adversary to be so 
vital as to require the use of its military power, 
the aggressor's miscalculation results in war. 
AJ;>plying these abstractions to the real world, 
it IS quite easy to translate the potential 
aggressor as the Soviet Union or any of its 
puppets throughout the world (Cuba, Vietnam, 
etc.). Whether or not the United States as a 
world power has projected a perceived weak­
ness to these potential aggressors is a question 
that can only be answered by a review of 
America's actions in the world in the past 
several years. 
Since the Carter Administration took office in 
January, 1977, the president has sought to 
prove to the Soviet Union and its allies through 
example that the United States is a peace-lov­
ing nation which does not engage in contests 
and does not threaten any of their vital 
interests. President Carter himself stated in a 
speech here at Notre Dame that "inordinate 
fear of communism is no longer valid.'' 
Apparently those in the Carter administration 
who formulated our foreign policy trusted that 
the Soviets and their allies would follow our 
example and do away with their aggressive 
tendencies. 
To reinforce and encourage the Soviets with 
our message of peace and detente, the B-1 
bomber was scrapped, development of its 
replacement intercontinental cruise missiles 
was ddayed, Minuteman III ICBM production 
was discontinued, its follow-on MX missile 
system delayed, development of the neutron 
warhead held in abeyance, and production of 
weapons grade nuclear material was curtailed. 
These actions were to reduce any incentive to 
the Sovets to engage in a nuclear arms race, 
facilitate negotiation of a new SALT treaty, and 
demonstrate to the Soviets our peaceful 
intentions. We waited for the Soviet§ to follow 
suit. We are still waiting. 
In foreign affairs, the Carter administration down played any opposition to the Soveit conquest of Angola and Ethiopia through the use of surrogate Cuban troops. There was no response forthcoming to the· Soviet subversion and virtual takeover of the governments of Afghanistan (1978), South Yemen, or Nicara­gua. We waited for the Soviets to get bogged down and withdraw. We are still waiting. 
Not to be outdone by the executive bran~:;.h, the Congress, led by Senators s~ch as Frank Church, George McGovern, Birch Bayh and Edmund Muskie and Representatives such as · John Brademas, voted to withhold aid to the UNITA freedom fighters in.• Angola, voted ·significant cuts in military spending and 
an adventuristic and aggressive course, Toon 
noted that he had found that the Soviet 
leadership had developed and "attitude of 
contempt" for U. S. power. He stated, "The 
Russionas pay attention to what the U. S. does, 
not what it says.'' He went on to note that 
American actions at hom and abroad over the 
last three years had encouraged this attitude of 
contempt. Ambassador Toon feared that unless 
the Soviets quickly developed respect for 
American power, they would be tempted in the 
future to embark on even greater adventures 
which could in'Volve directly a vital interest of 
the United States or Western Europe, espcially 
ifthey decide to call the bluff that is the Carter 
Doctrine. 

What kind of an alternative does Ronald 
Reagan and his so-called Republican "warmon­
gets" offer? The Republicans propose to 
rebuild America's strength, morally, spttitually, 
and militarily, and to project an Image of 
strength to the world and es~ecially to the 
Soviet Union. The Republicans call for 
increasing the str.ength of both our nuclear 
deterrent forces and conventional air, land and 
naval forces, including ambitious development 
programs for weapons technology and ship­
building. They propose to strengthen, both in 
manpower authorization and training, the 
Reserve components of the Armed Forces, long 
neglected by the Carter administration and the 
Congress. They propose drastically increasing 
pay and benefits for military personnel so that 
the current hemorrhage of skilled technicians is 
halted. 

More importantly, the Republicans call for the 
reestablishment of forcefull leadership in the 
dir~ction of American foreign policy in order to 
restore respect for this nation's power and 
position in the world. This Is to be 
accomplished by replacing the Carter adminis­
tration's vacillation and weakness with decisive 
action and deployment of strength where 
necessary to insure protection of America's 
vital interests throughout the world. A 
corollary of this decisive leadership is the 
willingness to use military force where neces­
sary. It must be emphasized that a willingness 
to use force doesn not mean that military force 
will always be used, nor does it mean that if 
military force is used that war must automati­
cally follow. The risk of war is always present 
when military force is employed, but that risk is 
much less then the risk of war accompanying 
the misreading ofa refusal to use military force 
as weakness. The Roman military lived by the 
motto, ''si vis pacem, para bellum" (If you seek 
peace, be prepared for war). This motto is no 
less true in our modern world. 
Ronald Reagan and the Republicans prech the gospel of peace through strength. Jimmy Carter and the Democrats, hoping that the American 'people have been conditioned to their constatn lying and would not recognize the truth, state that Reagan is not a warmonger. To me and to you the choice should be very clear: 'Reagan, str~ngth and peace; or Carter, weakness and war. 
has shifted to the negation of Soviet growth, even if that negation means to sacrifice human rights. Altruistic and democratic advances began to play secon fiddle to aggressive military and intelligence polici­cies in the formulation ofU. S. foreign policy. These more aggressive policies ignored the obligation to guardianship of human rights and national integrity. 
As a sfecific example, the history o U. S.-Iran relations over the last quarter century evidences this point vividly. In 1953, the U. S. government percieved the populary elected Iranian parliament to be poten­tially pro-Soviet. The deenness of that perception is itself another question, not central to the theme addressed herein. What is significant is that the 
U. S. reacted to its perception by orchestrating a military 
·coup through its Central Intel­ligence Agency. The previous­ly deposed Shah of Iran was reinstated as a military dicta­tor. In so doing, the U. S. denied a people their own popularly elected government and forced upon them an aut«;>cracy which is fully con­trary to the American ideal. 
Analysis of this historical sequence allows but one con­clusion: the United States abused its super-power stature by authorizing a military dicta­torship--a puppet--as a strate­gic maneuver in the Cold War, thereby abandoning the na­tion's fundamental espousal of human and democratic rights as paramount in policy forma­tion. Not only did the CIA instigate the Shah's rise to power, they worked intimately with his administration in its persecutory policies. CIA agents actually instructed the Shah's secret police, the SAV AK, in the torture tactics which they used to maim and kill hundreds of thousands of Iranian citizens. Therefore, the U. S. violated Iranian ever, while nobility and patri­otism are indeed virtuous, they are not the duty nor the place of journalists. Consequently, Americans are all-too-aware of the Iranian acts of international crime, but are ignorant of the much larger and more long-t term wounds inflicted by the 
U. S. in twenty-five years of rule by the Shah. 
I think it fitting here to note that my awareness of the Iranian situation comes from my acquaintnace with political scholars who study the Iran situation, and expedally with persons who have visited Iran and witnessed a wronged 
people.  
The  United  States  cannot  
Ignore  the  fact  that  it  has  
committed  horrible  crimes  

agamst the people of Iran; nobody else will. Clearly, the 
U. S. government is afrain of "losing face" in the world community by' 'backing down'' to the "lesser' nation of Iran. But the Carter Administration has vociferously articulated that the core of its foreign policy" is the protection of human rights. If any policy is to be effective, it must above all else be consistent. The U. 
S. cannot carry the banner of human rights and point-it accusingly at the Soviet Union if we do not comprehensively denounce international injus­tice, especially t!Jat which we ourselves perpetrate. The issue ofU.S. foreign policy and its support for human rights is integral to our role as leader of the Free World. The choice in Iran is honestly re­cognizing historical fact or continuing to play the pseudo­patriotic games which left the hostages in Iran for nearly a year. Indeed, the "we-they" mentality accrues no good ifthe same oppression of rights exists under U.S. support as it does under Soviet domination. 
]q,mes Dunlop is a freshman from Omaha Neb!aska. 

Hesburgh andGilligan 

to speak/or Common Cause 
programs, and succeeded in emasculating A 1968 graduate of the College of the Holy Cross, 
Common Cause of. Notre the organizatiqn shall be dis­
Dame is sponsoring a discussion 'cussed.
American's intelligence gathering agencies. Worcester, Massachusetts, John T. Nugent spent more than . 
featuring distingushed speakers Gov. John Gilligan and Father 
We waited for the Soviets to foolow our ten years on active duty as a Naval 0 fficer, most ofthat in 
at 2:30 p.'m. Sunday in the Theodore Hesburgh will speak.
, example. We are still waring. Naval Intellegence. A veteran offour combat tours in 
Continuing Education Center. A reception will precede the
The Soviet response to all of these examples of Vietnam, he holds seven personal decorations andflve unit 
American peaceful intentions has been to 
The past, present and future of program at 2 p.m. 
citations. 

_accelerate their strategic nuclear weapon devel­






The Irish Extra 
L.J

an Observer sports supplement 
Friday, October 10, 1980 -page 9 

Phd Carter (22}, who was injuredin the 26-21 win over Michigan State last weekend wtll not see actio" against Miami tomorrow. The I Yish, who average 264.7 yardr on the ground per game, will repla,·e the Tacoma, Wash. native with seniorJim Stone. (photo by john Macor) 
I 
I 
I 
r AtQB 
Kelly directs Hurricanes 
Miami (of Florida) : sayonara revenge 
r· 

~Frank 
1LaGrotta 
. 


Miami. 
Miami (of Florida). 
The Miami (of Florida) Hurricanes. 
Keep repeating that over and over and try to getexcited 
about tomorrow's game. 
Having problems? It's understandable. Aftt:r all, the 
name doesn't carry that much weight in the way of 
football tradition. Thinking about Miami (of Florida) 
doesn't exactly conjure visions ofAnthony Davis running 
back kickoffs, Woody Hayes punching linebackers or 
Bear Bryant modeling Houndstooth hats. 
Ah, well... 
But therein lies the task of the Notre Dame football 
team; trying to get motivated to play a team that holds a 1­
11-1 series record against them. 
Yes, but series records can be deceiving, it's true. Then 
consider that the Hurricanes have never won a game in 
South Bend, or that in total series points the Fighting Irish 
have outscored them, 358-135. 
Now, if all that doesn't lull you into a state of blissful 
Nirvana, recall for a moment that one-sided siyanora that 
ensued last November on some rice paddy in Tokyo. 
Notre Dame versus Miami (of-Florida) in a shameful 
display of upper-handedness that was too awful to be 
caused just by jet lag. The Irish won it 40-15, remember? 
Good, now forget all about it because these guys ain't 
nothin' like those guys. These guys from Miami (of 
Florida) are big and strong and 4 and 0 and these guys are 
out for blood. 
They think they can get a few pints tomorrow, courtesy 
of the Fighting Irish blood bank and they got some 
numbers to back up their claim. 
The number one rushing defense in the whole bloody 
nation for one thing. Does anyone believe that Miami (of 
Florida) has given up an average of 15.5 yards a game on 
the ground? 
15.5 yards a game!! You don't want me to say that again, do you? They're number five nationally in total defense, 
yielding 1 76.7 yards per game in toto. They beat Houston; 14-7, and edged Florida State, 10-9. That's the same Florida State that whipped Nebraska last Saturday, by the way. The Hurricane defense has given up only two touchdowns. Their offense has countered with 12. 
They are averaging 361 yards per game. 
"Miami beat Houston, they beat Florida State and today Florida State kicked Nebraska," Dan Devine reminded me on the bus from East Lansing last Saturday. 
"Those are three pretty good teams we're talking about. And it looks like Miami might be better than all of them." 
Meanwhile, back at the homefront, Devine is preparing for the possibility ofgoing into tomorrow's game without the services of sophomore sensation, Phil 'Cartel' who suffered a bruised thigh against Michigan State. Carter 
(aJIItttl/led r;n Pt~Ke I 2) 


by Holly Byer and PeterS. Hamm 
The Hurricane 
Jim Kelly, the East Brady, Pa. 
High School legend, whose number 
12 jersey has retired upon his 
graduation is well on his way to 
becoming a legend at the University 
of Miami. 
He's presently rated by some watchers as the finest quarterback the team has had since George Mira gained All-American status twice over two decades ago. 
Kelly came to UM hoping to start at quarterback for a passing team. It didn't happen that first year, as famed UM running back Otis Anderson led the Hurricanes to a ground attack. Kelly was redshirted. 
Kelly owes his starting position to Head Football Coach Howard Schnellenberger, architect of the great offensive attacks of Alabama and the Super Bowl Miami Dolphins. He brought with him not only demands for a passing offense, but former pro quarterback Earl Morrall to instruct the signal callers. 
His starting debut last season as a freshman culminated in a thrilling 26-10 win over nationally ranked Penn State. He threw 30 passes, with 18 completions and a total of 280 yards and three touchdowns. Kelly received the Associated Press (AP) Southeastern Back of the Week award after that game. 
"We were ahead 13-10 at half­time, and I was having a fantastic game," Kelly said. "I knew some­thing had to happen in the second half... the whole game I felt like I was in a dream. Nothing went wrong. When the game ended and I saw all my family and friends, I still couldn't believe what had hap­pened." 
He started the last three games for UM, but was knocked out early. by injuries against Alabama and against Notre Dame in Tokyo. In the final game of the season he connected for 10 of 1 7 aerials against the University of Florida, picking up 165 yards and one touchdown in the 30-24 Hurricane victory over the Gators. 
Overall in 1979, over the four , games he played in Kelly was48-for­. 1 04 for 721 yards and five touch­
downs, and was intercepted six 
times. 
So far in the "miracle year" of 1980 Kelly has completed 38 of73 passes for 497 yards and three touchdowns. Against" Florida State on September 27, he completed 1 3 of 22 passes for 1 72 yards, and scored the lone Hurricane touch­down on a one-yard keeper. 
It didn't always look so rosey. In the first game of the season against Louisville, Kelly and his men played a comedy of errors in the first half, and had the entire UM athletic administration on the verge of tears, worrying that another bad year was upon them. 
In the second quarter Kelly had two consecutive passes blocked and threw an interception to Cardinal 
1 Jay Trautwein, who was all by himself on Kelly's right ten yards away. Trautwein ran the intercep­tion back for 55 yards and a Louisvalle touchdown. "It took a while getting organ­ized. That was one of the better games they ever played," Kelly said. It all worked out in the second half, though, and Kelly completed 11 of 24 passes for 126 yards in the 24-10 win. After the Hurricanes' 49-0 swamping of Florida A & M last month Kelly received UM's Offensive Player of the Week 
award. "It's a great honor. I'm very excited about it, but it really should go to everyone. I don't feel the offense gets enough credit," Kelly said. 
Kelly completed nine of 13 for 144 yards against the Rattlers, and helped the team get revenue for last year's tearjerking 16-13 loss on a missed fieldgoal in the final seconds. 
Then came the Southeastern Conference Champion Houston Cougars, and Kelly combined with Rodrigue for the 14-7 win. Kelly completed five of 12 passes for 78 yards in the air. 
It is obvious that the offense has taken a back seat in national re­cognition so far, with the way that the defense, first in the nation again11t the rush, has been doing. 
Being in tommand ofthe starting quarterback position over backups Mike Rodrigue and Mark Richt takes a bit of the pressure offKelly. "It's a great feeling. It's really good to be playing constantly. I don't like to sit on the bench." 
Kelly feels that the offense has improved immensely, but they are still making a few critical mistakes, such as backs running the wrong way. He is confident, though that the errors will clear up soon. His own improvement, Kelly says, must come in passing accuracy. 
Kelly wants to be the best quarterback that the school has ever had. This year his goal, along with his teammates', is a bowl. He wants to prove that the team is as good or 
J better than the coveted defense. He would also g like to go pro. 
"I figure, by the time I graduate in two more years Terry Bradshaw will be ready to retire, so Pittsburgh will be looking for a new quarterback. I'd like to be the one to take his place." 
The Irish Extra ·Fnday, .O<:ober 10, 1980 -page 10 
•
Stone • old man in Irish backfield · 
by Beth Huffman program; plus it offers good job op­Sports Editor 
portunities after graduation." Not only is Jim the senior Stone Talk about good news and bads news­brother, he is also the senior member of Jim Stone, a senior halfback for Notre the Notre Dame backfield. Dame, has heard it all this week. "I'm the only senior running back, and I The first good news came when Stone think the guys look at me as their leader," 
realized he would see a lot of action says Stone, who finished sixth in the against the Hurricanes, a real challenge nation last year in kickoff returns with 19 
seeing as Miami boasts the best defense in 
for a 25.9-yard average. "I try to keepthe nation against the rush. them going in practice and in the game.The bad news involved Stone's suite­"I always think the team comes first, 
mate, Phil Carter. Carter, who Stone is and if I do the best I can, hopefully I can slated to replace, sustained a severly help the team." bruised thigh in last week's contest "The kids do look up to Jim," saysJim
against Michigan State. It's hardly easy to Gruden, the Irish running back coach. 
rejoice in your own good luck when it "He's very personable and they all like involves the misfortune ofa good friend. him a great deal. 
A visit from his his parents, who live "He's a senior and not starting, but he 2,000 miles away in Seattle, Wash., has to works the same as a freshman, I think that be good news. says a lot for his attitude." 
"They don't get out as often as they "Family, that's this year's theme," said 
would like," Stone said Jim earlier this the big brother of Irish running backs. 
week when discussing his family's up­"We are very close and push each other." coming visit. "This weekend will be the Stone, who has held the position as first time this year that they've come. It's backup for Vagas Ferguson and now 
especially nice that they'll get a chance to ·· Carter, isn't worried about not holding a see everyone play." starting slot. 
But,Jim Stone and his family have to be "I don't think you necessarily have to anything but happy this week as brother start," said Stone, who confesses to that Dan lies in a hospital bed back home boyhood dream of playing pro football. 
recuperating from knee surgery. Dan, "You just have to perform well. who joins Jim and a third brother, Chris, Stone, who hopes to follow his com­as an Irish football player, suffered torn munications major into a public relations cartilage in his knee playing against the career, possesses the basic tools to 
physical Spartans. "perform well," according to Gruden. 
"During recruiting I didn't influence "He looks like he's not as fast as the them in any way," said Jim ofhis younger others, but he runs about a 9.8 1 00," said brothers' decisions to play for Notre Gruden of the 6-1, 198 pounder. "He has Dame. "I decided to stand by them and good size and is a very good pass receiver support them all the way. with very good hands." 
"As far away from home that I am, Stone, who captained JFK's football, having them (Chris-and Dan) around basketball and track teams his senior year, helps keep me company." is not particularly worried about Miami 
But just how did Jim, a graduate ofJohn this weekend, although he does admit the 
F. Kennedy High School, come to choose Hurricane defense will present more of a Notre Dame over schools closer to home, challenge to him as a running back. like USC or Washington? "Any team we play wants to beat us, and 
"At first my father wanted m~ to stay at wants to beat us bad," said Stone. "We home and go toWashington. Butafter we Jim Stone, due to the absence ofPhil Carter, will take on the tough job of just have to rise to meet the challenge."talked it out, hesawthatNotreDamewas facing a stingy Miami rushing defense. The Seattle, Wash. native has 
With all the bad news Jim Stone has 
carried 20 times this season for a total of 73 yards and one touchdown.
the place for me. heard this week his attitude remains un­
"My reasons for choosing to come here (photo by john Macor) blemished. His talent and desire to do his were simple. It has everything I wanted.­best just may be bad news for the It's a good school and has a good athletic Hurricane and good news for the Irish. 

At left guard 
Gagnon opens way for running backs 
by Mike Olenik Sports Writer 
Despite being considered an open spot only one month ago, there is now little doubt as to who owns the starting left guard position on Notre Dame's offensive line. Standing at 6-3 and weighing 252 pounds, Robb Gagnon seems very comfortable opening holes and protecting quarterbacks for the Irish offensive unit. 
This is not to say that offense has been his home since he arrived here three years ago, but that after two serious injuries, and experimenting at other positons, Gagnon and the left guard spot have proved to be a very effective combination. 
Gagnon's road to a starting berth has not been entirely smooth, but he has recovered well from his past injuries, both physically and mentally. 
"When I was hurt I really felt badly. But when I'd look out on the field and see my teammates playing and having a good time, it made me work that much harder. When I finally recovered and got a chance to compete it was so much more satisfying." 
In coming off a broken ankle and a separated shoulder, the Eau Claire, Wisconsin native recognized the importance of rebuilding his body strength in time for the 1980 season. His intentions to do so seem obvious when he describes the intensified weight program he participated in over the summer. 
"Knowing that I had to spend a big portion ofmy timegetting back in shape in order to get a shot at considerable playing time, I decided to take a trip out to Los Angeles to visit my brother who is a bodybuilder at a local club. We had a rigorous program where we began each day by running on the Santa Monica beach so I could strengthen my ankle which had just been removed from a cast. Then we would .work out in the afternoon and usually run some more after dinner. Itwas quite an opportunity for me to get back into playing shape while having a fairly enjoyable summer." 

Although classified by many as being a less than glamorous position, offensive guard seems to have caught this man's fancy. 
"I'm really starting to enjoy the position. It is very satisfying to make a block that opens a hole for a big gain. I try to perform my assignment the best way possible and that is to stay with my block until, ideally, I have blocked my man to the ground. The thing I enjoy most about the guard position is pulling. Coming off the line and running full speed to block someone is a lot of fun." 
Tutoring Gagnon at this new position has been the job ofinterior line coach Bill Meyers. "Coach Meyers has been nothing but helpful to me so far. He really knows what he is talking about and I respect him greatly. After all, there was a lot I had to learn in a pretty short period of time, so having a good teacher like Coach Meyers made things much easier." 
The requirements of playing football here at Notre Dame have been described by many as being very extensive, but the challenge of competing successfully in both the classroom and on the field has been welcomed by Gagnon. He seems to have put football in perspective just as many of his fellow athletes have as they real~ze the importance of a quality education. Such an education was a prerequisite for Gagnon when he made inal decision on what school to attend. 
"I visited Purdue, Wisconsin, Michigan State and here, but I knew that at Notre Dame I'd have the unique opportunity of playing against the top teams in the country while also receiving an excellent education. Right now I'm majoring in Finance and taking some law courses to prepare for possibly going to Law School." 
While future considerations are of utmost importance, the immediate future, including the upcoming Irish games, seems to take a front seat in this ambitious man's mind. The talk ofNotre Dame having too tough a schedule is brushed away quickly by Gagnon as being irrelevant to Notre Dame's prospect for a successful season. 
"When you know that you will be playing a top notch team every week, you tend to prepare more intensely and play more to your potential. I think it is important that we are seriously challenged each weekend in order for us to improve continually. Although we have another difficult schedule this year, I think we have some real good depth. We worked very hard before the season and it definitely paid off. We seem to be in as good a shape as I have ever seen a team I've played for." 
The extent ofNotre Dame's depth and talent will show distinctly in the forthcoming weeks, yet on the basis of what has been displayed so far, ·the coaching staff seems to have prepared this year's edition well. Hopefully, the hard work related to Robb Gagnon's preparation will pay big bonuses ingames such as the upcoming Miami contest, as he will be out to prove decisively that the left guard spot is indeed his new home. 
The Irish Extra 
Flanker Holohan displays receiving, blocking talents 
by Brian Beglane 
Sports Writer 
Preseason prognosticators raised many an eyebrow this year when the question of Notre Dame quarterback came up. Who would replace Rusty Lisch? Would Dan Devine start a freshman? 
The question certainly became old in a hurry. 
The opposite end of that question, however, never became an issue. The Irish were deep in receivers-their returning trio was considered one of the nation's best-and they have lived up to all expectations so far. 
Senior flanker Pete Holohan has certainly held up his end ofthe burden. A three-year veteran on the pass receiving corps, Holohan also has turned into an effective blocker this season. 
"Pete is a very versatile player," says Notre Dame coach Dan Devine. "Hissize (6-5, 230 pounds) certainly makes him an asset as a receiver and as a blocker. He has a good pair of hands and can run with the ball when he catches it. What more could you want?" 
Holohan, a native of Liverpool, N.Y., has flagged down five passes this year for 95 yards and one touchdown-equal to his TD reception total as a sophomore and junior. 
"I just like to be involved in the play," said Pete, "whether it's as the receiver ora blocker. On the sweep I'm the first one down field so naturally I am being used as a blocker often. Like I said, I just enjoy being in on the play." Holohan moved into the Irish lineup as 
I a regular his sophomore year following 
~ preseason surgery to Tom Domin. He 
r filled the shoes quite admirably, finishing second in receiving with 20 catches for 301 yards while starting ~even games. Last year Holohan, an American Studies major in the College of Arts and J.etters, started all 11 games and ended 
third on the club with 22 receptions for 
386 yards and a 17.5 average. 
Irish fans will remember Holohan as 
the receiver of the touchdown pass that 
capped a futile Irish comeback at 
Southern Cal two years ago. He also 
caught four passes each in games against 
Air Force and South Carolina last year. 
"Playing here has been fun," said 
Holohan. "Theguys on the team are good 
friends and we enjoy what we do. It's been 
very rewarding-I have no regrets. 

"I know a lot of people were saying we had perhaps the best trio of receivers in school history this year. I'm not so sure about me, but I can sure say so for the other guys. They make it easy for me. 
"As a team this year, we have to take each game one at a time-with our schedule there is no other way to do it. We're optimistic but we can't look too far ahead. Tomorrow, for instance. Miami is going to be a very tough team." 
Holohan came on the Irish campus his rookie year with quite a list ofhonors. As a senior at Liverpool High School, he became the first athlete in New York state history to be named first-team all-state in both football and basketball. Choosing between basketball and football, in fact, was a decision he had to make. 
"It sure was not an easy thing to decide," explained Pete. "I enjoyed playing both in high school and I did have some offers for basketball. I have no regrets about my choice, though." 
Now his outlet for the hardcourt is the cement courts of the Bookstore Basketball tournament, in which he has competed for the last three years. "It's a lot offun," he says, "and winning it would be a nice way to go out my senior year." 
That and the possibility of a pro football contract. 
"If the opportunity comes up," said Holohan, "that will be great. ButI am not counting on a career as a pro. I'll just play it by ear." 

·Friday, October 10, 1980 -page 11 
Toman guides receivers, quarterbacks 
by Mark Hannuksela Sports Writer 
Some guys go into coaching after a successful playing career as a way of staying involved in the game they love. Others just kind of fall into the role because they happen to be in the right place at the right time. And then there are guys like Ron Toman. 
"There was never any doubt in my mind as to what kind of career I wanted to pursue," says Notre Dame's quarterback and receiver coach. "I had a great deal of respect for my high school coach, which I guess had some effect on me, butbasically coaching was just something I always wanted to do. I did try teaching for a year on the high school level, but I didn't like that too much. Now it's strictly coaching." 
Toman's coaching career began at the school for which he played, when he served as a graduate assistant under Dan Devine following his graduation from the University of Missouri in 1960. After receiving a master's degree in education two years later, Toman began his full-time coaching career at Springfield (Mo.) High School. One year and a second high school coaching job later, Toman accepted his first and only head coaching jdb at Missouri Southern junior College. Following stints at Wichita State, Northeast Missouri State and Tulane, Toman came to Notre Dame, where he has been for the past four seasons. 
•In his career here, Toman has been in charge ofthe dev~opment ofa number of players who are currently in the professional ranks, among themjoe Montana, Rusty Lisch, Ken MacA fee, and Kris Haines. Much of the success they have achieved can be attributed to the efforts of Toman, although he shuns the praise. 
"The only thing I really had to do with the development ofthose players was put them through practice. They are all extremely talented players, and that's why they are successful in the NFL. I mean you take a guy like joe Montana­he was a passing machine. He was such a great athlete that he was able to correct any problems on his own. He could handle any situation. There's not much you have to do with a guy like that." 
In addition to the former Irish stars now playing professional football, Toman has also been responsible for the development ofLenvil Elliot, former Cincinnati Bengal running back, and Steve Foley, a quarterback at Tulane who is now a defensive back with the Denver Broncos. 

Now, Toman is in chamP of seeing to·the mentof 
time 
ier in the 
week during a 
break between 
classes 

to talk about the effect his coach has had 
on him. 
"Coach Toman is just a fantastic coach 

and person. I think he could teach 
anybody anything. He has a lot of knowledge of the game, and will take his time to explain things to people." 
"He's also a very emotional coach," Kiel adds. "He is very intense, even in practice. He gets involved in the game as much as the players do. I guess you could call him a perfectionist because he has a certain way he wants things done, and won't settle for anything less." 
At the daily practice sessions, one can find Toman walking around explaining, complaining, offering words of praise as much as those ofcriticism. A sampling of his banter: 
"All right, all right, there you go." 
"Ok, that's better Mike." 

"You've gotta come over the top with that more, Scotty." "Hey, hey. That's a baby. That's a hell of a lot better Tripp." "Try, try. C'mon, you see these other guys out here busting their ... don't you." 
Toman has his own reasons for doing this. "Our guys must be able to handle pressure situations. In practice, we try to simulate these game pressure situations. It is the quarterback's job to make things happen, and for that role, we want a guy who has command of his own abilities, someone who is not going to be denied. If they can't do it in practice, they're not going to do it in a game." 
With this week's game being only the fourth on the Irish schedule this season, it may be a bit too early to start projecting where the Irish will be at season's end. But in listening to Ron Toman, one finds himself confronted with a very bright outlook. 
"This club has a lot of pride, and it wants to win very badly. They just have the feeling that they are not going to be denied in any situation. They are very close, and help each other out better than any other club I've ever been around. It's uncanny." 
"It's really too early to tell what might happen in the future," Toman continued, "but I do know that this is a team with an awful lot ofpotential. Ifthey stay a close­knit group, there's no telling how far they 
·can go." 
With Dan Devine's job opening up at the end of this year, has the Missouri native given any thought lO being the next coach at Notre Dame? 
"I haven't even begun to think about the future," answers Toman. "I'll let that take care of itself." 
Well would you like to someday return to the head coaching ranks? "Oh, you bet. That'swhat you live for in this game." 
It's something Ron Toman has been living for since his high school playing days. Ifhe keeps it up, it's also going to be something-he will get. 
Injury update 
Reports issued today announced Irish tight end Dean Masztak would be absent from Notre Dame's lineup for four-to-six weeks with a sprained ankle. Starting tailback Phil Carter will also remain sidelined during the Miami game. Carter sustained a bruised thigh in last week's game at Michigan State. Cornerback Dave Duerson should see action against the Hurricanes despite an ankle injury aggreva~' -1 in the Spartan contest. 
TheIrishExtra 
Lineups Irish statistics 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE  TEAM STATISTICS  ND  OPP  PUNT RETURNS  No-Yds  AVG  TO  LG  
Duerson  9-56  6.2 0  9  
POS NO PlAYER TE 95 Nick Vehr  HT &-4  WT Cl 236 Sr.  TOTAl OFFENSE YARDS Total Plays  1156 219  910 195  Krimm Toran  3-30 2-19  10.0 0 9.5 0  16 11  
l T  74  Mike Shiner  6-7  250 So.  Yards per play  5.3  4.7  NOTRE DAME  14-105  7.5 0  16  
lG  64  Tom Thayer  6-5  258 So.  Yards per game  385.3  303.3  OPPONENTS  6-72  12.0  0  39  
C  57  John Scully  6-5  255 Sr.  
RG  65  Bob Burger  6-2  240 Sr.  PENALTIES-YARDS  18-161  8-97  KICKOFF RETURNS  No-Yds  AVG TD  lG  
RT SE QB FB  71 Phil Pozderac 85 Tony Hunter 5 Blair Kiel 33 John Sweeney  6-9 6-5 6-1 6-2  260 Jr. 211 So. 200 Fr. 225 So.  FUMBLES-LOST Yards Returned  7-4 0  4-2 0  J. Stone Barber Hankerd  8-192 1-26 1-18  24.0 26.0 18.0  0 0 0  49 26 18  
HB  22  Phil Carter  5-10 193 So.  TOTAl FIRST DOWNS  64  49  NOTRE DAME  10-236  23.6  0  49  
Fl  31  Pete Holohan  6-5  228 Sr.  By Rushing  47  26  OPPONENTS  15-266  17.7  0  67  
p  5  Blair Kiel  6-1  200 Fr.  By Passing  15  19  
KO  4  Mike Johnston  5-11 175 So.  By Penalty  2  4  DEFENSE STATS  *TM  Tl-Yds  PBU FR  BK  
PK  3  Harry Oliver  5-11165  Jr.  Crable  38  3-6  0  0  
NOTRE DAME DEFENSE  Third Downs-Conversions Percentage  48-30 .625  48-20 .417  Zavagnin Rudzinski  22 19  1-3 2-7  1  0 0  0 0  
Zettek  18  3-21  0  0  0  
lE  47  John Hankerd  6-4  245 Sr.  POSSESSION TIME  99:36  80:24  Gibbon~  16  0-0  0  0  
l T  98  Pet Kramer  6-4  251 Jr  Minutes per Game  33:12  26:48  Kramer  15  3-13  0  0  
RT  63  Don Kidd  6-2  240 Sr.  Rice  14  0-0  0  0  
RE  70  Scott Zettek  6-5  245 Sr.  INDIVIDUAl STATISTICS  Kidd  12  0-0  0  0  0  
llB 46  Mark Zavagnin  6-2  230 So.  Krimm  12  0-0  0  0  
MlB 43  Bob Crable  6-3  220 Jr.  RUSHING  G  No-Yds.  AVG TO  lG  Marshall  8  2-10  0  0  0  
RLB 51 lCB 30 RCB 19 SS 29 FS 27  Joe Rudzinski Stacey Toran John Krimm Tom DeSieto Tom Gibbons  6-3 · 208 So. 6-4 185 Fr. 6-2 183 Jr 5-10 182 Sr. 6-1 181 Sr.  Carter Courey J. Stone Kiel Sweeney Buchanan  3 3 3 3 3 3  99-499 22-107 20-73 8-45 9-40 5-16  5.0 4 4.9 1 3.6 1 5.6 0 4.4 0 3.2 0  54 18 19 14 14 9  Hankerd Duerson Cichy Desiato Toran Bone  7 7 7 7 5 4  1-2 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0  2 0 1. 1 0 1 1 0 0 . 0  0 0 0 0 0 0  
MIAMI OFFENSE  Moriarty Adell  3 1  1-B 1-2  8.0 0 2.0 0  8 2  leuken Gramke  3 2  1-7 1-8  0 0  0 0  0 0  
POS NO PLAYER  HT  WT  Cl  McGarry Barber  3 3  1-2 1-2  2.0 1 2.0 0  2 2  Clasby Naylor  2 2  0-0 0-0  0 0  0 0  0 0  
TE  84  Andy Baratta·~•uV • 6-3  217 So.  Hunter  3  1-0  0.0 0  0  M. Boushka  0-0  0  0  0  
lT  53  John Canai  6-5  251 Jr.  Belden  0-0  0  0  0  
lG  59  Art Kehoe  6-0  227 Sr.  NOTRE DAME  3  168-794  4.7 7  54  D. Stone  0-0  0  0  0  
C  62  John Fenton  6-3  245 Sr.  OPPONENTS  3  113-419  3.7 4  37  NOTRE DAME  226 17-77  13  2  0  
RG RT  56 60  Jim Pokorney Dave Stewart  6-3 6-6  245 Sr. 243 Jr.  '  PASSING  G No-Comp  PCT  lntYdsTD  OPPONENTS  304 14-35  7  4  0  
SE QB FB  27 Pat Welker 12 Jim Kelly 33 Chris Hobbs  6-2 180 Sr. 6-3 203 So. 5-10 185 ...  Courey Kiel Hunter  3 3 3  36-20 14-7 1-1  .556 4 261 .500 0 70 1.000 o 31  2 0 0 I  •Includes solos and assists  
HB  46  Smokey Roan  5-8  176 Jr.  NOTRE DAME 3  51-28  .549 4 362  2  INT. RETURNS  No-Yds  AVG  TD  lG  
Fl  13  Jim Joiner  6-2  195 Sr.  OPPONENTS  3  82-40  .488 2 491  41  Krimm  1-49  49.0  1  49  
P  5  Greg LaBelle  5-9  170 So.  Desiato  1-1  1.0 0  
1  KO PK  3 1  JeH Davis Dan Miller  5-6 132 So. 5-10 178 Jr.  RECEIVING Hunter  G 3  No-Yds 9-153  AVG 17.0  TD 1  lG 57  NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS  2-50­3-26  25.0 1 8.7 0  49 20  
Masztak  3  6-76  12.7  0  28  
MIAMI DEFENSE  Holohan  3  5-95  19.0  1  31  SCORING  TO PATK  PATR  S  FG TP  
lE 90 Tim Flanaga~ l.T 73 lester Williams RT 91 Bob Nelson RE 36 John Daniels LlB 66 Scott Nicolas MG 83 Jim Burt RlB 57 Mozell Axson LC B 17 Ron lippelt RCB 2 John Swain  J 6-3 6-3 6-4 6-1 6-3 6-1 6-0 6-1 6-2  210 Jr. 267 Jr. 257 Jr. 218 Sr. 2.25 Jr. 242 Sr. 222 Sr. 170So. 189 Sr.  Sweeney Carter Buchanan J. Stone NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS PUNTING Kiel  3 3-23 7.7 0 3 2-12 6.0 0 3 2--6 -3.0 0 3 1-9 9.0 0 3 28-362 12.9 2 3 40-491 12.3 4 G No-Yds AVG 3 12-484 40.3  9 9 0 9 57 42 LG 69  Oliver Carter Hunter Courey McGarry Holohan Krimm J. Stone  0 4 1 1 1 1 1 1  8-9 0-0 0-0 0-0 o-o· 0-0 0-0 0-0  0-0 0-0 0-0 0-1 o-o 0-0 0-0 0-0  0 6-6 26 0 0-0 24 0 0-0 6 0 0-0 6 o o-o 6 0 0-0 6 0 0-0 6 0 0-0 6  
SS FS  30 31  David JeHerson Fred Marion  6-2 6-2  212 Jr. 190 Jr.  NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS  3 3  12-484 18-727  40.3 40.4  69 60  NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS  10 8  8-9 4-4  0-1 0-4  0 0  6-6 86 2-3 58  

Bandshowfeatures alumni reunion 
If you think that you are seeing double during musical "The King and I" March Of The Siamese the band's performance on Saturday, don't worry. Children. For another change of pace the group There will be an extra 255 people in the band that plays a medley of circus marches including The day. Billboard March andBarnum and Bailey's Favorite. For 
It's t'he first band alumni reunion. People the finale, the band swings in to a medley ofJohn 
representing the classes of1931 through 1980 will Philip Sousa's marches comprised of his Liber~y be playing and marching along with the 1980 Bell March, The Washington Post March and the Stars Marching Band. The "alums" got together once and Strtpes Forever. before to honor Robert O'Brien in his 2'i th year as The band will then be joined on the field by the 
•f" • 1n 1

director in 1977. They enjoyed it so much that alumni for two of its school songs, Down the Line they decided to do it again. and Hike, Notre Dame. After a salute to Ara 
This week's halftime show is entitled "A Salute Parseghian, the band will play Notre Dame, Our to March Music" and the band will present some of Mother and the Notre Dame Victory March. the greatest marches ofall time. The first march is The halftime festivities will not be the only 
a famous Austrian composition, The Tiroler thing that the band participates in. There will also Ho/zhackerbuam. The next selection features the be the traditional pre and post game shows and the low brass section in Them Basses. band will againbe joined by the alumni for this. A 
From this style of march the band switches to a pre-game concert will be given on the steps ofthe very unique style from the Richard Rodger's Administration building. 
Grid Picks 1980 

Friday, October 10, 1980 -page 12 
J 
...Miami 

(continued from page 9) 
Whether he wins it or not remains to be seen, but the immediate possibility ofa Carter-less offense tomorrow is causing a few grey hairs on coaching staff heads. · 
And, if you haven't already heard, the coals of quarterback controversy are again being stirred with Blair Kiel and Mike Courey front and center. Kiel is pencilled in (lightly, mind you) as number one, but if Carter cannot play, Courey is probably the next best runner available to 
Devine. · ~-·· -·· --­"It will be a staff decisjqn," Devine 'said last Saturday, "as to who will be the starter against Miami." Well, tlie staff has decided, but no one is talking. On matters such as this, it's harder for a reporter to get an answer from a football coach than it was for Sirica to get the tapes from Nixon. ' But, for the sake ofargument(and this column) assume that Kiel will get the nod by virtue ofhis stronger arm, and you're looking at what may be the best strategy available 
to Devine -and his charges. The forward pass. Figure it out yourself. If the Hurricanes are giving up 
176.5 yards per game and only 15.5 are coming on the ground, then 161 must be flying through the air. Tony Hunter+ Pete Holohan+ Blair Kiel + (the 
Hurricane Defense)-Phil Carter= bombs away!!! Simple enough,' isn't it? Not quite. ~'Miami is very good in every department," emphasized. 
Hunter on Tuesday. "They're very, very good. And we won't have a bit of trouble getting up for them because we've seen the films and we know what they can do." 
And what they can do doesn't surprise Hunter at all. 
"Even last year in Japan they hitpretty hard," he recalls. "We got a few quick &cores on Dave Waymer's interception returns but they never gave up even when they were way behind. And you know they want to beat us this year. They want to beat us bad." 
"But we want to beat them, too." 
All ofwhich leads one to believe that tomorrow's game might just be a classic-if, thatis, there is roomforanother "classic" at the school that brought you]oe Montana, Harry Oliver and more photo finishes than the Exacta at Aquaduct. 
The winner will perhaps be the team with strength 
-enough left to era w 1 outofthe.trencheswhen the final gun fires. Or perhaps victory will come on the wings of a 60­yard bomb in the game's waning seconds. 
In this battle ofthe undefeateds, the team that remains undefeated may be the one with the luckiest kicker, the , I smartest coaches or the most pious priests on the sidelines. 
In any ..:ase, tomorrow's game should be the best we will see at the stadium this season. Maybe the best we will see all year. 





Game Notes 
SITE: Notre Dame Stadium, (59, 075) TIME: 4 1:30pm.EST RADIO: Notre Dame-Mutual Radio TELEVISION: Notre Dame-Metrosports Replay WNDU-TU 
Paul Mullaney Beth Huffman Michael Ortman Kelly Sulliwn Frank LaGrotta Brian Beglane Brll Marquard Gary Grassey Editor-in-Chief Sports Editor A.rsoc. Sp. Edrtor -Women's Sp. Editor Sports Writer Sports Wrrter Sports Writer Sports if'rrter 31-14, .689 32-13, .712 31-14, .689 32-13, .712 29-16, .645 32-13 • .712 32-13, .712 32-13•. 712 
Michigan St. at Michigan Spartans by I Wolves by 7 Wolves by 8 Wolves by 9 Wolves by II Wolves by 6 Wolves by 10 Wolves by 12 Oklahoma vs. Texas Sooners by 3 Horns by 6 Sooners by 4 Horns by 4 Horns by 3 Horns by 8 Horns by 6 Horns by 2 Alabama at Rutgers Tide by 23 Tide by 20 Knights by I Tide by 16 Tide by 17 Tide by 15 Tide by 21 Tide by 9 Southern Cal at Arizona Trojans by 7 Trojans by 15 Trojans by 14 Trojans by 12 Trojans by 17 Trojans by 17 Trojans by 7 Trojans by 11 SMU at Baylor Bears by 10 Bears by 10 Bears by 9 Bears by 6 Bears by 6 Bears by 7 Bears by 7 Bears by 1 Pittsburgh at Florida St. Panthers by 2 Panthers by I FSU by 4 FSU by 2 FSU by 7 FSU by 3 Panthers by 3 FSU by 3 Stanford at UClA Cards by 5 Bruins by 2-Bruins by 7' Bruins by 8 Bruins by 10 Bruins by 5 Bruins by 3 Bruins by 6 Penn State at Maryland Lions by 7 Lions by 8 Lions by 12 Lions by 10 Lions by 13 Lions by 10 Lions by4 Lions by 12 
Heels by 12 Deacons by 2 
North Carolina at Wake Forest Heels by 2 Heels by 10 Heels by 5 He~ls by 3 Deacons by 6 Heels by 7 Navy at Air Force Middies by 14 Middies by 15 Middies by 25 Middies by 11 Middies by 7 Middies by 8 Middies by 13 Middies by 15 Mississippi at Georgia Dogs by 16 Dogs by 20 Dogs by 14 Dogs by 14 Dogs by. 7 Dogs by 24 Dogs by 20 Dogs by 8 Central Michigan at Ohio Ohio by I CMU by 10 CMU by 12 CMU by 7 CMU by I CMUby 9 CMU by 17 CMU by 10 Nebraska at Kansas Huskers by 10 Huskers by 15 Huskers by 14 Huskers by 21 Huskers by 10 Huskers by 16 Huskers by 17 Huskers by 25 Duke at South Carolina Cocks by 10 Cocks by 20 Cocks by 15 Cocks by 17 Cocks by 10 Cocks by 12 Cocks by 10 Cocks by 19 Miami, Aa. at Notre Dame Irish by 7 Irish by 3 Irish by 13 Irish by 6 Irish by 14 Irish by 4 Irish by 1 Irish by 8 


1 

j ·I I



Features 
Friday, October 10, 1980 -page 13 
'Outcasts' Debuts •••••••••Local••••••••• Weekend Con_certs ·
Tomorrow Adri T tigiani 
The Outcasts is the name of the original women's improvisational comedy group which makes its debut tomorrow night at 8 p.m. in the La Fortune Ballroom. The first question I get asked about the group is"Where did you come from?" and indeed we seem to have surfaced from out of nowhere. And we did. ' 
We (Anne Slowey, Regina Pratt, Annie Patterson, Mimi Commons, Mary Pigott, Angela Wing, Kathleen Macdo, Katie Willson and Adri Trigiani) believe in the notion that one should come from nothing and be funny. We started with the basic rudiments of improvisational theatre and have eventually worked to the point of performance. You might think in terms of Chicago's St•cond City and New York's DENTED. In a sense, we use everything we have experienc­ed theatrically-.-and the experience in our group ranges from professional summer stock to the dramatics of accepting a high school diploma in front of a full auditorium. 
We use what we have to the best of our abilities and to 'the best of our dramatic sensibilities. We also have a complete technical crew; set design by Roselie Bellanca, lights and sound by 
Brian Wolfe, music by the Emmanuel 
Singers, and choreography by Kathleen Macdo, There is adeepsense 
of commitment within the group to 
produce an evening worthy of our 
audience. · 
The Emmanuel Singers are one of the most inspiring groups of young singers to hit either campus in years. As for The Outc11stss, our dramatic moments of comedy range from situations dealing with soap operas, men, politics, and chocolate to exer­cising, punk rock, and Frank Zappa. Audience participation is used exten· sively throughout the show. Bring your sense of humor. 
This thing is sponsored bt The Cooperative Department o Communicatfon and Theatre. There is a dollar donation which we request at. the door the Emmanuel Singers will benefit greatly from it. And, as the sign says: "Everybody wants a girl lik~ the girl that married dear old Dad." These women aren't. Please come. It's our first date. 
Adri TrigtiJni is one ofThe OutctJJts and rl senior at SQi!lt Mary's 
A vast assortment of musical en­tertainment abounds this week for tht Notre Dame/St. Mary's community. Some of these performances include: 
-Yes, the classical-rock group will perform in the ACC tonight at 8 
p.m. This British quintet features Steve Howe, the acknowledged great­est living all-around guitarist, who will no doubt indulge in a frenzy of rock and classical solos and leads. The band, touring behind their new album, Drama, is performing in the round on a revolving stag~. and plenty of good seats are still available at the low prices of $6.50 and $7.50. .11 k 
-Wtu Ac erman, California acoustic guitarist and owner of Windamhill Records, will perform in the brand new, acoustically perfect Snite Art Museum auditorium at 8 
p.m. Sunday. Ackerman is a gifted guitarist and has a unique classical-folk style. The Student Union Concert Commission is really sticking its neck out to bring this fine musician to Notre Dame, and if this concert is any success, it will be the beginning of a series·of smaller concerts in the Art Museum. Tickets are on!" $4 and $5, and are available at the Student Union. 

Strongly recommended. 
-The Notre Dame Orchestra, under the leadership of the campus' favorite music professor, Adrian Bryttan, will also perform Sunday at 8 p.m. in St. Mary's not-so­acoustically-perfect O'Laughlin Auditorium. The Orchestra will play a number of pieces collectively titled "An Introduction to the Orchestra," and will feature works designed to demonstrate the range and dynamics of orchestral music. It is a real shame that both the Orchestra and the Ackerman concerts are scheduled for the same time, since both are strongly recommended. However, the O'Laughlin performance is free. 
Doc Severinsen, of the Tonight Show fame, opens the South Bend Symphony Orchestra's Midwest Pops seriesMondayat8 p.m., in the Century Center. Severinsen is not only an accomplished jazz trumpeter, he also is quite talented in classical and other difficult styles. Tickets are $9 and are available by calling 232-6343 or by going to the Century Center Box office. 
The Feminist Art o_fWuise Pierucci Holeman 
The paper and fabric exhibit by Louise Pierucci Holeman on display in Saint Mary's Moreau Gallery through Oct. 17, 1980, stands as a celebration of women. Her work is Women's Art because it is born in emotions that work their way out­ward, thus presenting an insight that is intrinsically female. Holeman's art possesses a universal appeal, yet bespeaks this message that is espe­cially for the female gender. 
Why should one distinguish be­tween male and female art? Because if one's experience as an artist reflects her statement, then it cannot be denied that the condition of women in general musts influence a female's work. Holeman's sculpture and fiber directly reflect her own impressions as a woman. To discuss her work without discussing her life would be like trying to seperate the dancer from the dance; both breathe vitality into each other. 
When viewing Ms. Holeman's show, one is immediately struck by the grid motif that resounds throughout. This motif is nothing new in the world of art. Painter Piet Mondrian, and his heir, architect Mies van der Rohe, found the self-contained, rectilinear divisions to possess an elegance as well as a host of rhythmical possibilities. Per­haps coincidentally, many contem­porary women artists have con­verged upon the idea of drawing on grids. an example would be Eva Hesse, for whom the grid offers a structered surface in which to define her obsessions. 
Holeman's prototype is derived from "having tried almost every­thing in weaving." It represents a "blow-up picture of the actual weaving process where threads are interlocked, intermeshed.'' How­ever, the grid pattern acquires a 
deeper significance as it beco~es the expressive surface upon wh1ch her life's experiences are related. 
Holeman reminds a primarily ~e­
male audience, "a woman's exis­
tence in our society is built upon 
waiting ... waiting for things to hap­pen to us, rather than making them happen." The grid echoes this sentiment as it parallels Holeman's building of herself, making lterself strong in a society where "art is still considered to be a nice hobby for married women.'' 

In some ot her works, the grid personifies human emotion. Ruin Ill, executed after the traumatic disco­very of a loved one's terminal illness, seems to weep as its match­like sticks are torn apart, and edges singed, suggesting (rather literally) the painful emotional wounds that such a malady imparts on both the victim and those who care for him. Other portions of the same piece remain always interconnected in a silent memorial to the shared mo­ments that hold fast, enduring event the most trying of times. 
Employing a Freudian-tinged psy­chology, Holemar. admits that she often doesn't become cognizant of the motivation behind her work until months after its' completion. It was through these mergings of her emotional and intellectual spheres , that Holeman was able to deCipher, · with some cogency' her choice of fiber as a medmm. 
Aside from the pleasureable tac­tile experience of manipulating fiber (many women artists speak of the importance of this textural apprecia­tion), Holeman confesses, "I've always been deathly afraid of earth­worms, and fiber is the closest thing to them. Therefore, in working with fibers, I'm working with my fears." 
Holeman then takes a psychoanaly­tic stance by recalling that a worm or snake, in Freudian terminology is symbollic of the phallus. ' 
· "I've always wamed tJ> be a boy" Holeman states without fear of derision. Her wish springs from the fact that men have always been pushed to achieve, to "do for themselves", while her role was enforced with the "do for others" ~yndrome. Her battle cry now, is to 1mpel women to realize how to give themselves to others, without taking themselves from themselves. 

Teri L. Cafaro 
The forty-three year old Holeman purports to being a feminist , but this admission came only after an emotional maturation, in which she was able to shake off the old bonds usually connoted with the label. a feminist in her vernacular is ''a woman who can support herself whether she is married or not'', not an emasculating female with lesbian tendencies. 
During a talk, in serious but encouraging to:"es, the artist incited the female factiOn of the audience to exp_erience living . and working on the1r own; to dev1se a network of support amongst women; to acquire female role models. "Don't look at your limitations. You have to believe you can do anything." 
The life and work of Ms. Holeman can serve ~s. a source of inspiration to any aspmng talent. Not only is sh~ an internationally known fibers aru~t represented in permanent col­lecu.ons as well as corporations, but she IS also a college professor having taug.ht ~rt ~t Carnegie-Mellon Um­verslty m Pittsburgh from 1975-79. 
Choosing to leave her comfortable Pittsburgh surroundings of 20 years, she recently moved to Austin, Texas, t? do graduate ~ork and teach part ttme. She thnves on this new lifestyle, finding Texans to be "not so smooth around the edges, but more real" than their Pennsylvanian 
counterp~rts. 
Her materials range from paper to wood to synthetic fiber and the content of her work runs the ~amut from "strictly decorative with no intrinsic value'' to pieces imbued with psvchological narrative. Still andindubitably, woven throughou~ these sundry mediums and expres­s.ions is the very complex, provaca­
ttve  woman  is  Lou1se  P1erucci  
Holeman.  
TeTTi  L. Cafaro  is  a  Humanistic  

Studies major from Saini Mary's College. 
Friday, _october 10, 1980 -page 14Features I  
LEITERS TO A LONELY GOD A Letter from David to Jonathan win many converts; maybe it wouldWhen 1think back to how we met,./ ofemptiness. What I truly yearned No! Being gay was not what Ibe offensive to gays as well asJews.laugh. There you were on the corner, for was the real highlight of the wanted! I wanted to cry, to sob andOne feels that the emotion m thefeverishly dispensing literature and week. the SHABBOS ... The SHA whimper, like a lost child! To pourletter sounds overpitched, as thoughmaking a lot of noise about jewish BBOS was given by God .to the. -out to you my lonely, tender,the writer were projecting himselfidentity. When I tried to ignore you, jewish people 4S an eterntil gift. passionate heart! into a role he has not entirely lived. you chased after me, trying to Each SHABBcJS, God becomes es­Crying, sobbing, whimpering areThere had not been one gayreason with me. I retorted in my pecially close to us... Once a week, a not moods I really wish to deal with; experience that I had not tried. Iintellectual, very matter-of/act-way, jew takes a magic journey into human beings should think more ofstuffed myself with jokes. . flOOdthat I was a homosexual, andmy gay PARDASE, a wondrous, perfumed themselves than that. Hearts sotimes, trivialities, till I was stck tofeelings needed an outlet; that garden ... it is when the Jewish tender should reinforce themselves my stomach! Wretched! Miserable! I] udaism was a thwart and inhibition people join God in holy matrimony. with flinty stuff, like rocks andsought a lover. What I really sought to my "free expression" and "total The jewish people are a bride to stones, for as long as necessary,was true love from my creator, mycreativity." Well, the more we God, and SHABBOS is the mamage until self respect has been firmlyGod ... Anyone who has immersedargued, the more imtt;Zted I became, between them. established. I would rather, in myhimself in ] ewish learning anduntil we found ourselves shouting at ministry, try to melt the hardness ofpractice, proceeds confidently with Every single thing I did in my gayeach other ... How I despised you, rocks than be poured upon bythe knowledge that he is truly, life reflected my true hunger forand yet, you made me feel com­uncontrolled passton and self pity,deeply loved. judaism, because ,neshomoh, mypelled to read your message. With ~ven on Bleeker Street. I wandered with friends the dark, soul, was especially made to learnthe utmost reluctance, I tore a Oh, Jonathan, jonathan, you'vena?Tow, winding streets, in and out TORAH ... For it is only when nes­message from your hands, and, as dried my tears!of theatres, searching for romance homoh, has TORAH, that there canyou insisted, readit, marching offin I shall beg no more!andadventure. What I really sought be true satisfaction, gratification,a huff. For_ I am a prince, and shall so was the extraordinary experience of and fulfillment ... The TORAH is the remazn,I don't think that I have ever read learning TORAH ... it is the ultimate only thing that gives real purpose to Forevermore ... with eternal love,anything as important as that mes­experience in intimacy, tenderness, this world. David sage ... / realized in shock that you sensitivity ... As 'Saint-Exupery writes of the were nght! Not only was judaism I was deeply entrenched into the This is not a letter, especially in Little Prince, it's such a privatere~vant for me_, b_ut every single slave-master scene, -and into sado­its entirety, which leaves one feeling place, the land of tears. Some places thzng that I dzd zn my gay life masochism ... / wanted to negate comfortable. One always wonders, are entirely too private to be reached reflected the deepJearning in my myselfto another. I really wanted to hearing the street preachers making by letters. Some letters found onsoulfor TORAH an my hunger and negate myselfto God by becoming a their pitch, if souls are made park benches seem like graffiti thatthirstfor]udaism. My gay activihes passive v~ssel into which he pours cheerful by the good news of the has no readers, like the clawmarksand inclinations actually proved my his holy wisdom. I bounded myself Gospel. One wonders, on Bleeker scratched by prisoners on their cellneed for TORAH. in chains and received whippings ... I Street, if Jonathan and David are block walls. neededto bind myselfup to God by authentic prophet's of Jahweh' s In Greenwich Village, one sus­I found the letter written by Da-vid winding around myself daily the love, whose feet are beautiful on the pects that many letters are written to]onathan on a bench in the small straps of Te(e/lin, and wrapping mountain as servants of peace. One by a lot of Davids to ] onathans park at the foot of Bleeker Street in myselfwith the Tallis ... would hesitate to leave phone num­whom they have only imagined. InGreenwich Village. Mimeographed, I neededto identify. I wore out of bers (as David listed his phone New York, there's a mountain of with a bibliography attached and a my back pocket a handkerchief to number in New ] ersey) on park unclaimed mail waiting at the dead program for Judaic instruction, it advertise as a sign my sub-group. benches, offering the ~ospel and the letter office. Some of it is addressed seemed intended for general circula­My ] ewish brothers wear out from Cross as alternate life-styles that to Santa Claus, some to the Easter tion, like the religious tracts handed their pockets, the fringes of the would lead Christians home from the Bunny. I wouldn't be surprised to out by street corner preachers. I tzitzis as a sign oftheir meaningful gay bars. One would also hesitate to hear that one or two letters, at least,have kept it with the other religious identity. knock street ministries that are filted have been mailed from David toliterature available on the streets For the highlight of the week, I with caring, as though one himself ] onathan: please forward to theduring summer evenings in ll{ew went to a bar ... The disco music had held the dice for the only card game co~ect address.York. I doubt that the letter would to be loud, to drown out the feelings in town.  
REELREVIEWS 'Stardust Memories '--jaded Rehash _Ryan Ver Berkmoes I I ,_, Woody Allen has succeeded in efforts (e.g., What's Up, Tiger .repeating his past works simulta­Lily?), are brainless baboons, and neously mocking his fans with the those who appreciated his recent film Stardust Memones. stuff are intellectual lamebrains. Moviegoers familiar with Allen's Yet, it's a free country, and if youwork will find nothing new in his want to abuse those who like you,latest effort. On the surface, that's "hey, why not?". It's the over­nothing to be ashamed of, since whelming bitterness that's upset­Allen's past few efforts have been ting. Even in his treatment ofvery fine indeed. Perhaps his recent women, Allen's detestment is evi­poltcy ofproducing one ftlm a year is dent. No longer the naive neuroticstraining even his vast talents. The we could all. indentify with, Allenfilm has many enjoyable secens; u:eats them like so many props forthose that follow Allen cannot help his pleasure. · but finding themselves drawing parallels between scenes they're His three love mterests are played viewing and scenes from the/ast. by Charlotte Rampling, Marie­An example is a scene lace with Christine Barrault (both sufficiently slapstick that takes one back to a titillating European sex symbols), hauntingly familiar one in Annie and the domestic ] essica Harper. Hall. Still, even if Stardust Memor­Their performances, like most of the ies were a simple rehash ofAllen's others, are quite good, given their best movies, it wouldn't be such a roles as victims of Allen's vehicle ofserious. Essentially, Allen tells the exasperated and fed up with allcrime-poignant, well-crafted humor hate.audience, "I am playing me in this these assorted loons. Even film never IS. In retrospect, sadly Woody Allenmovie and this is what I think.'' It's critics are jabbed sadistically, for their seems to have fmally ·been spoiledWhat is disturbing about the not a subtle autobiography, like power to make or break a film. How by success. Stardust Memories ismovie is the side of himself Allen Annte Hall or Manhattan; this on1! anyone could poke fun at a critic, I'll his statement that, ''I'm successfulexposes that has not been seen Jays it out on the table. never know. and rich, I can do what I want."before. We all know he is a wee bit At first, the film is a joy. Allen The trouble develops during the Hes forsaken many of the qualities.psychotic, but up until now Allen has seems to have created a cinematic film's second half. It becomes that got him where he is, let's hopenever revealed how cynical about life spoof of his life. The audience readily a.Pparent that Allen is not that the public does not forsake him. and especially people he really is. gleefully watches Allen being put only making fun of the others in his The story involves a filmmaker upon by minnions of fawning fans, movie, but actually, he despises Among Ryan Ver Berk.moes' other(played by Allen) who goes to a plus a whole gaggle of slimy film them. His litany of hate contir:tues duhes at thlf! Observer, he reviewsweekend seminar about his ftlms. executives who call everyone dear through a number ofscenes in which movies. His column appears on'This filinmaker' s films have recently v.bisle calculating the estimated gross he makes it very dear that those Fridays.! become more introspective and of the film. Allen is delighifully fans who liked his early_ frivolous  


-


The Observer -====== 


Friday, October 10, 1980 -page 15


Weekend 
The Country Rock Jam committee will meet Monday at 7 p.m. in LaFortune ballroom. All security, stage crew, ticket takers, dressing room coor­dinators and staff arc required to attend. Any questions, call Student Union at 7757. 
St. Mary's 
fencers to meet 
Novice practice for those in­terested in joining Saint Mary's fencing team will begin Monday, October 13 at 7 p.m. in Angela. For more information call Sharon Moore at 5143 or Ann Hendrick at 5256. 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
Campus 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10 
• 12: 1 ~ p.m. -lecture, "enforcement of ethics in the u.s. congress," william geoghegan, esq, 101 law school. 
• 3:30 p.m.-'-perspec­tives in the philosophy of science, "methodology of science: descriptive or pres­criptive," prof. carl j. hempel. mem. library aud. 
• 3:30 p.m.-lecture, "undocumented workers: current immigraton re­search in mexico," dr. jorge bustamante, colegio de mexico, 341 o' shag. 
• 
4 p.m. -earth sciences lecture, "practical aspects of g<K>physics," william j. haskins, 101 earth sciences building. 

• 
5 p.m. -inaugural lec­ture, "the strange world of 

• 
5:15 p.m.-mass and supper, bulla shed. 

• 
7,9:30 p.m.-film, "all the president's men" carroll hall smc. 

• 
7,9,11 p.m.-film, "the seduction of joe tynan," engr. aud. 

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 11 

•7,9,11 
p.m.-film, "all the president's men" carroll hall smc. 

• 
9 p.m. -nazz, Iori deitrich and ann bourjialy. • 10:30 p.m.-nazz, 


chemical  oscillations  &  
catastrophes.  dr.  roger  a.  
schmitz, cce aud.  

unext". SUNDAY,OCTOBER12 
• 
I p.m. -concert, university of notre dame orchestra, washington hall. 

• 
2 p.m.-urban plunge workshop, library auditor­ium. 

• 
2:30 p.m. -.,. discussion, common cause, gilligan and hesburgh cce. 

• 
7 p.m. ---'-concert, notre dame orchestra, washington hall. 


•11 :30 p.m.-questions and answers, fr. joyce, alumni lounge following mass. 
Country rock meeting 


Molarity 
Michael Molinelli 





HAHAHAHA!! 

The Daily Crossword 
... 


'fOU /a.XPE."Ci ME W RE~PEGT 50MEON!i WHO ·srtLL SLI:EPS 



Peanuts 
Charles Schulz 

MMBE Lf'OU'RE AWARBLER .• SOME WARBLERS GO, 1'WEE5EE WEE5EE WEE5EE II 
OF COURSE, IF '(OU DON'T SEE, THEN l(OU CAN'T SA"/ ''WEESEE"
I 


ACROSS 1 Working· man's drink 4 Thrusting sword 9 Rich girl's fur 14 Lake Tahoe 
loc. 15 Off. worker 16 Actor Flynn 17 "-Got A 
Secret" 18 Retreads 19 Pathetic 20 Olympic 
skating star 23 Give a 
right to 24 Health club 25 Arikara 
26 Arch support 31 Part of a branch 34 Halloween drink 35 Had a pizza 36 Winner at Augusta 
40 Exist 
41 Saying 
42 Left 
43 Decree 
45 Part of a foot 
47 "Tarzan" actor (with 13 D) 
48 Notched 52 Distinction of36A 


56 High nest 57 Appropriate 58 Literary 
collection 59 Glorified 60 As -(gen· 
erally) 61 Spanish article 
62 Church 
areas 63 Postmarked fA Ship lane 
dir. 
DOWN 1 Old-woman­
• ish 
2 "Rosemary's Baby" writer 
3 Happening 4 Worldly 
possessions 5 Gag 6-Haute 7 -day 
(dosage 
term) B Price 9 Putalone 
10 Sports' places 11 Breakfast 
cereal 12 Knowledge 13 See47 A 21 Sad compo­
sition 22 British­
26 Steerer 27 Same: Lat. 28 Weight 
allowance 29 School jacket 30 Take a breather 31 Nicholas of Russia 32 "The Way We-" 33 "Big Daddy" 
actor 34 Board or joint 
37 Titled 
Englishmen 38 Firing 39 Pitchers 44 Pleasure 
trip 45 Place of worship 46 Made 
speeches 48 Rex­49 "-Of Two 
Cities" 50 Mortise's partner 51 Clear a 
tape 52 Bark 53 Iron and 
tin 54 Modified 
organism 55 Railbird 56 Desert coat 

.....___..fRANK ZAPPA~ 
~------in concett 
~----~Notte Dame ACC -i=tiday Nov 14th 
Student Lottet Sunday, Oct.12, 7p.lft-.-----~ Lafottune 8alltoom~-----~ bting Student I 
...,..___,9.00/J8.0 



The Observer -Sports' Friday,_October 1 o, 1980 ·_page 16 
With 1~3 record 



Spikers head for St. Francis 
by Mark Hannuksela would have to.~ay thatthey're the
State, and host St. Francis 

Sports Wrtter team to beat.
College. 



10 oz. Prime Rib 6.95 22 oz. and up Prime Rib 12.95 choice, 
1 cooked slowly, tender, juicy••• so good Surf & Turf ••• 9.95 (smothered In sauteed mushrooms pampered w/lemon & butter) 
Stuffed Broiled Trout ••• 6. 9 5 Greek Shishkabob ••• 6.95 LUNCHEON Steak & Shrim~••• 6.95 SPECIALS 
SERVED DAILV 

Enjoy the Grecian At;nosphers of Our 2 Dining Roa;ns. 
open Sun. t'r
GRECIAN CUISINE:

3421 West Sample. So. Bend 
dining & cock\ails

Specializing in

I 282-2423 

Greek Gyros 4:30-IO:OOpm 
Sports Briefs------. I 
Novice practice for those interested in joining 
I
Saint Mary's fencmg teamwill begin Monday, October 13 at 7 
p.m. in Angela. Formore information call Sharon Moore at 5143 or Ann Hendrick at 5256. 
Amos Otis ranhis way into the record books last night as the Kansas City Royals edged the New York Yankees, 3-2, to ta,-~ a 2-0 lead in the American League Championship Series. Otis' stolen base in the sixth inning gave the Kansas City veteran eight career steals in playoff competition, tying Joe Morgan for the major league high. 

Aikens dug Washington's relay

(continl{f!t/from page 20} 
out of the dirt to complete a 

Randolph, one of New York's game-ending double play. fastest runners, was on the move A record Kansas City baseball with two out, but leftfielder crowd of42,6 3 3, thirsting for the Wilson, the speediest man in Royals to avenge their 19 7 6-77­baseball, retrieved the ball quick­78 playoff losses to the hated ly and fired it to third baseman Yankees, had little to cheer George Brett. Brett's relay to about until the Royals struck 
catcher Darrell Porterwas in swiftly in the third inning. time to nail Randolph, who tried With one out, Porter lin~d a to crash through the tag with a single to right field and White's 
head-first slide.Watson was grounder skipped through the credited with a double,but the right side on the artificial turffor third out left Yankee slugger another single as Porter stopped Jackson standing futiley in the at second. 
on-deck circle. Wilson, who doubled home 
Jackson opened the top of the the final two ru!'h in the Royals 7­ninth with a single chasing 2 opening game . ictory,laced an Leonard. Quisenberry, whose opposite-field smash down the submarine delivery enabled him first base line, and Porter and to tie for the league lead with 33 White scored as the fleet Wilson saves, retired Oscar Gamble on a easily made it to third. He scored soft pop fly, but Rick Cerone ; the decisive run . whc11 lined a single over short, moving Washington laced a 'ouble up Jackson to second.However, the left-center field alley that hit Nettles rapped the first pitch the fence on one hop. sharply to second baseman May, who led AL starting Frank White. He juggled it for a pitchers with a 2.46 earned run split second, but fired to average, allowed only two singles 
shortstop Washington for one the rest of the way, but the 
out, and first baseman Willie damage had been done. 



POSTPONEmENT 
The teadet's wotkshops hich had been schedule fot Octobet 12 and 15 have been POSTPONED. 
Residence Halls will receive 
advance notice of the rescheduled 
dates after fall break. 
We are an equal opportunity employer m/f 



campus

October 14, 1980 
miniStry

7:00p.m. Blue &Gold Room -Morris Inn 
in concert 



Refreshments Served 
RICK WALTERS and WILL ACKERMAN 
* 
American Hospital Supply Corporation 
* 

WITH SPECIAL GUEST CHRIS FISHER
Presentation by Dan O'Hara Director of Purchasing-Class of '74 
"An evening of acoustic guitar" 
Multiple Divisions: 22 diversified divisions contributing products and 
services to the expanding health care industry_

When SUNDAY, October 12, at 8:00pm, 
Geographical Locations: American Hospital Supply Corporation 
in the Snite Gallery Auditorium,



You Choose 
maintains sales and distribution centers in 91 cities throughout the United States with 59 additional locations around the world. Presently 
at the University of Notre Dame.
American there are 92 manufacturing locations in the U.S. and other countries. 
Lifestyle: Depeoding on the geographical location and career direction

Hospital 
you choose. 

Tickets $4.00 ND-SMC students


Supply 
Career Direction: You'll have many ways of contributing to the health care industry in the following 3reas: 
$5.00 non-student 
Corporation AccountingI Finance/Operations SalesI DistributionI Marketing


You Have 
available at the door 
If you seek a company in which you do indeed have a choice, meet with


A Choice! 
our campus representative at: 
•

L_ 
· Nick Buoniconti (center], former linebacker for Notre Dame and the Miami Dolphins, does a new commercial spot with comedian 
Friday, .October 1 o, 19so -page 11 _. 
Announcing: 
,-MORNING BECOMES SCHOLASTIC 
There will be Layout/Production for the next SCHOLASTIC* this Saturday morning * 

9:30 a.m. --:-approx. noon 
in us up in our offices on th third floor of La Fortune 

Tell your friends!! 
Norm Crosby [left]. Buoniconti is one of three former Miller Lite athletes who have defected to Natural Light beer. 



Successful Buonaconti rips NFL 
I Bruce Lowitt AP Sports Wrrler 
Nick Buoniconti received a degree when he left college to play pro football and because of his forsight while he was playing, he had a second career waiting for him when he left the game. 
Nick Buoniconti is very for­tunte-and perhaps very much in the minority. 
I 
He is a graduate of Notre Dame, a former linebacker ofthe Boston Patriots (1962-68) and . Miami Dolphins (1969-74, 76), a 
lawyer, a player agent, a public speaker, and after years of "No 
' Name" anonymity, a star of the 
Natural Lite series. None of it was an accident. He worked for it, worked hard. 
He looks around now, just as he did as a player during the 1960s and '70s, and sees athletes setting themselves up for a 
...Irish 
(continued from paf(e 19) 
Notre Dame boasts an im­pressive team batting average of .313 with sophomore Rick Chryst leading the way with an even .400 mark. Senior Jim Montagano leads in the hits category with 14 and runs batted in with 11. is tied with captain Mike Jamieson for the lead in doubles with five. 
1 
Bob Bartlett, despite losing 6­1 to Indiana State at the Bradley Invitational, lowered is earned run average to 1.58 in 17 innings. Bartlett owns a 2-1 record. 
Sophomore Steve Whitmyer, who has yet to give up a run in six innings, and freshman Bob Hickey, have been penciled in for mound duty against Valparaiso. Gallo, however, has used 14 different pitchers this fall so don't be surprised if Whitmyer and Hickey are only used for a couple ofinnings each. 
The Irish will relax tomorrow to watch the annual Alumni game beginning at 9 a.m. 
"We've had terrific response for the Alumni game," Gallo said. "A lot of players, including Notre Dame's last baseball all­American-Rich Gonski (1964 graduate and now radio person­ality for WIND in Chicago)­
are coming back. It should be a lot of fun for both the current players, and their predecessors." 
gigantic crash when their playing days end. It is, he believes, the No. 1 problem in the National Football League. 
The drug arrest of Bob Hayes and the suicide ofJim Tyrer are only the most dramatic instances of former players incapable of dealing with the real world. Too many players, either without degrees or with meaningless ones, are unable to cope when they no longer are pampered, when their every whim no longer is taken care of-when they have to be like everyone else. 
Buoniconti, in an oblique way, says the NFL deserves at least a bit of the blame for the problem and thinks it's time the League and its teams begin doing some­thing about it. 
"Look at theJim Tyrer thing,". Buoniconti says. "He's un­employed, ends up shooting his wife, shooting himself. You just wonder, did he ever really make the adjustment out of football? Did he prepare himself while he was playing? I don't know. I knew Jim very well. He was just a real lovable guy. Who knows? He just couldn't cope, I guess. A lot of guys caU:tcop~ with it. That'~ my biggest concern." 
Many players, he thinks, live a very narrow, almost sheltered existence and that, "when they retire, unless they really have something, a business to go into, a profession to fall hack on, it's a tough adjustment. You see a lot of problems develop in marital situations because their minds aren't out beyond football. Many players have no idea what they're going to do. That's the problem. They really feel they'll cross that bridge when the time comes. 
"A lotofyounger players don't want to hear about the future, about life ~fter football. All they want is to be patted on the hack and be told how great they are. 
"And I've seen guys who play­ed 10, 12 years and never had an off-season job, never got into anything, never tried to find out whether there's anything out there, for them," Buoniconti says. "They never tried to find out whether they have an aptitude for business, whether they have an appetite for coach­ing, or anything. So they just let it go. Then they cross the bridge and it becomes an experimental thing." 
And into the water, they crash. 



The Observer -Sports· Friday ,(>ctober 10, 1980 -page 18 


Gallo wishes he had15George lams 
Books Are A Great Gift Idea Explore the SECOND FLOOR of the 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Subjects Include: vS 
aQOI'­
~aelZv 


c !\R1 
THE FIGHTING IRi :> ByTHE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE WiUiam Gildea .Anc :::nristo­DAME, A PORTRAIT OF ITS pherJennison, regula•; ..?.12

3EFORE ROCKNE AT NOTRE HISTORY & CAMPUS By now on SPECIAL $2.98
DAME By Chet Grant (An Professor Thomas Schlereth (A
Dir"ME 198_l CALENDAR .By a tic 1stories of N.D.'s-."' .. :ball
Inside look at -Notre Dame Beautifully Illustrat~d History
Philip C. Thompson $5.95. A History through th· '"-<-ars.
Football before Rockne), $9.95. of Notre Dame(, Hardbound
lasting gift (rhe 12 prints can be Includes a ~allery ,,. . ·--:: and
$25.00, Paperback $7.95.
framed). 
ex cf us i v e1 ph o' . · 

Football Saturday Hours ·9am-1:30pm 3pm-5:30pm ''We aren 't _TUST textbooks _you !:mow I' ' 




ammes 
by Mark Hannuksela Sports Writer 
George lams is a good kid. His mother saw to that. 
"Rather than pressure me into playing the game, she used to kind of use it against me," recalls the starting center fielder on Coach -Larry Gallo's Irish baseball team. "It was a way for her to keep me in line. She would say things like 'If you keep it up, I'm not going to let you go out and play ball today.'That was enough incentive fdr me." 
"But they never really pushed me into the game. They did't have to. With two older brothers around, I became interested in the game fairly early. I played with them and their friends all the time. I was always around the older guys," he said. 
"The only thing I didn't really like was his playing football,' replies Mrs. john lams, George's mother, to her son's charges "We never really tried to keep him from playing ·baseball, al­though with so many of us around (George is one of seven kids in the lams family), I sup­pose I could have said that a few times." 
"We thoroughly enjoy going to the games ·now, though," said Mrs. lams."We try to see all of them. We're pretty well repre­sented at times, too.Counting grandchildren and all, we can get as many as 17 people to a game." 
Obviously, lams has benefited from staying out of trouble. A native ofSouth Bend, lams took his 1977 Clay High School diploma and shoved off for Annapolis, Md., where he open­ed his collegiate career as a Midshipman outfielder at the for-seven with four or-five walks, , for us too.'' 
Naval Academy. three stolen bases and three : lams, who has yet to make an 
One year later, lams decided to RBis. He's a real spark plug for error this season (knock on return to South Bend and to us." wood),has apparently adjustedNotre Dame and, after sitting "George could very eisily bat well to his new centerfield posi­out a year, lams joined the Irish in the top two or three positions tion. The starting leftfielder for h<~seball team. in our line-up," Gallo continued, then-Coach Tom Kelley last 
"To go to the Naval Academy, "but we need as much speed at · season, lams was switched due to you almost have to want to make the bottom of the order as at the the loss by graduation of Gregthe Navy a career,'' said lams. top. He hits well for us in the Rodems._ and the theory of new "They wanted nine years of my sixth spot, and I'm happy to have Coach Gallo. life,and I decided after a year that him there. -------'-------­that really wasn't for me.I'm glad "Our fall season is a time for us I had a school like Notre Dame to do some experimenting, 
"Ican 't really
to fall back on. I haven't lost though,"he concluded, "so our anything in terms of education. 1 line-up is by no means set. I'm a million-times happier here i Everybody wants to be a lead-off than I was there." hitter, and I will try to give as 
say enough
Thus far this season, lams, who many people that opportunity as is a senior mechanical engineer, I can. I will probably bat George has appeared in ten of the 11 second this weekendto give him Irish contests, collecting nine a chance to show what he can do, 

about George ' ' 
singles in 27 at-bats. He is fourth and to take thepressure off of on the team in walks, and tied for some of the people who haven't first with five stolen bases. been hitting, and we'll see what 
"I'm a very firm believer in theHerein lies his major asset to happens." · "strength up the middle"Gallo's squad-he gets on base. Such a switch by Gallo would theory," says Gallo, "where you
give lams a chance to pursue one 
are strong defensively at the
of his goals for this season-
catching, second base,shortstop, 
' 'T'm a mil/ion timeS being one of the top-three bat-and centerfield positions.
1 ters in the Irish qrder. 
George has such excellent speed, 
"I would like to hit in one of 

and is so good defensively, that
the top three spots in the or-
we are very confident with himharllll;er here '' der,''says the 5-7, 170-pound out there. With him and Danny'Yl"" ' ' ' converted left-fielder. "It would (Szajko) in center and right, we 
give me more of a chance to get 
know that anything hit out that 
on base. But I haven't really 
way is going to be caught.
"It's very comforting for me to shown what I can do yet, and I'm "George and Dan really com­'know that I can shuffle George hoping this can be the year. I'd plement each other well in theanywhere in the line-up, and he'll also like to hit between .350 and outfield. They have been playingstill do a .good job for us,"Gallo .400, and get about 15 stolen together for a few years now, and said by phone earlier this week. ·bases. 
they know each other like a"George is a linedrive hitter, and "As far as team goals go, our book. They both have excellent he hits well to all fields. Healways big objective this year is to getan speed, and, as I said before, we s~ms to geton base, and once he NCAA bid. We are going to know that they're going to flagdoes that, his speed makes him a strive to have as least as good a down anything hit out there."
major threat for us. season as we had ·last year. Since lams agrees with his coach"He was our best hitter in the we finished 29-8 last season, I when it comes to Szajko.
Bradley Tournament going four-guess 30 wins would be a big goal "Dan and I are good friends, and we play pretty well together. He and I geta lot ofsteals, and we try to help each other in that respect. He pushes me alot, and I push him too. We're always pulling for each other.'' 
As a senior, lams will be faced with a choice come May con­cerning what type ofwork he will want to pursue. It seems, how­ever, that his mind is alreadymade up. 
"It's always been my-dream to play major league baseball, but frankly, I'm not sure I'm good enough to be drafted. I would love to play ball if I got drafted, but I don't know if that's a realistic possibility_. I mean for one thing, scouts realize that they cannot match the salary that most people graduating from here will receive in their first year, and being that I'm married now (to the former Tracey Troeger) that will probably have some effect on my decision. I guess I'll just have to wait and see." 
"George has a lot of respon­sibility on his shoulders right now with a wife to support,'' said Gallo. "But he is a fine individual and an excellent student, and I know he'll do just fine no matter what he undertakes." 
"I can't really say enough about George," concluded Gallo. "He is just a pleasure to coach. He's always working to try to improve his game. Any superlative you wanted to use would adequately describe him. I consider hiin a real asset to the Notre Dame community. I just wish I had 15 more guys exactly like him." 
Yes, George lams is a good guy. He had to be. 


..... 

The Observer-Sports Friday, October 10, 1980 -page 19 
by Dave Irwin Sports Wrrter



Irish nine 
Notre Dame will travel to Valpariso this afternoon for a doubleheader beginning at
to face 
2 p.m. The twinbill was orginally scheduled as a one-game, nine­inning, home-and-home series, 1 but the first contest, slated for September 20 atJake Kline Field was rained out. The Irish and the Crusaders now hope to play two 
Valparaiso 







Classifieds .... 
games of seven innings each. 
The Irish upped their record to 7-4 after winning two of three games last weekend to capture the Bradley Invitational. Irish Head Coach Larry Gallo, pre­dicts the Crusaders won't roll over and play dead for the Irish. 
"Valparaiso ·will field a very strong ball club as always," Gallo says. "The two teams have built up a tremendous rivalry and it's always an exciting series. We're coming offa very good weekend, so I hope the momentum con­tinues." 
The Irish were crowned cham­pions at Bradley, yet their play was far from overhelming. 
"Our pitching and hitting
Iimpressed me last weekend, but our defense was poor," Gallo said. "We committed eight errors and each one hurt us. I think the players learned that you can't make those physical errors and expect to get away with them. We also made a few mental mistakes, but the play­ers have a tremendous attitude and confidence in their abili­ties. We came back after the first loss and then came from behind in the second game to win. That shows me that we 
have  a lot of character  and  
pride."  
(continued on page 17)  

NOTICES 
OVERSEAS JOBS: Summer/year round Europe, S. Amer., Australia, Asia. All fields $500-$1200 monthly. Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free Info. Write: IJC, Box 52-IN 4, Corona Del Mar, CA. 92625. " 
WORLD'S FINEST SPORTING KNIVES, INCREDIBLY SHARP, LIFETIME GUARANTEED CALL #1555 
HEY SENIORS, JUNIORS. ARE YOU ENGAGED? INTERESTED IN STARTING OR ADDING TO YOUR HOPECHEST? PHONE *1555 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans $20-$200. One percent Interest. Due In 30 days. One day wall. Open M-F 11:30-12:30. Final application day before break Is Ocl.16. 
riders needed to nortllern Florida lor october break call Terry or Pam 277·8358 
EXCELLENT TIX FOR THIS FRIDAY'S YES CONCERT AT A.C.C. ARE STILL AVAILABLE AT THE A.C.C. BOX OFFICE AND RIVER CITY RECORDS, 50970 U.S. 31 NORTH. YES TIX WILL ALSO BE AVAILABLE AT THE BOX OFFICE FRIDAY NIGHT. 
THE NEW BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN ALBUM "THE RIVER" IS SCHEDULED TO BE RELEASED AND AVAILABLE THIS MONDAY, OCT. 13, AT RIVER CITY RECORDS. THE BOSS RELEASES THE RIVER, SO GET IT AT RIVER CITY RECORDS THIS MONDAY! $1.00 OFF All SPRINGSTEEN ALBUMS INCLUDING IMPORTS, WITH N.D. OR SMC I.D., NOW THROUGH OCTOBER 151 
Reminder to all Urban Plungers to 
attend required workshop at 2:00 
p.m.. Sunday, October 12. 
Remember $4.00 reglslrallon lee, 
ond bring LEARNING AGREEMENT. 
Used and Out-of-Print Books Bought, Sold, Searched. ERASMUS BOOKS, 1027 E. WAYNE, 232-8444. 12·6, Closed Mondays. 
NEED RIDE TO OR NEAR PHILLY, READING OR ALLENTOWN, PA. FOR BREAK SHARE EXP. MIKE 8207 
HELP! I need a RIDE to and especially back from the Washington, D.C or Baltimore area. I will of course, share driving and expenses. Call Mary Po-l at 7884 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: St. Chrlslophe(l Medal on Cartier Field, Tuesday night. Great Sentimental Value; If found, please call Dan, 1629. REWARD! 
LOST: Old while and yellow gold ring by my mom Michigan week­end. Probably at Library or Bookstore. Great sentimental value. Call Paul Riehle al6111' or 232-1545. 
FOUND: WOMAN'S GOLD WATER BETWEEN SOUTH DINING HALL AND DILLON. GO TO LOST a FOUND IN ADMINISTRATION BLDG. PLEASE DESCRIBE 
LOST: Tan Suede Jacket-REWARD For Relurn.Loslln the CCMB. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL333 7.(Greal Sentimen­tal Value) 
LOST: St. Mlchaersmedal.lnscrlbed Michael Sullivan. Cal 8933 REWARD!I 


FOR RENT 
2 room apt. $50 mo. Near. 233­1329. 
FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Reni·A·Car. Priced from $7.95 a day and seven cents a mile. Phone 255-2323 lor reservations. 
APT. FOR RENT: QUIET, WITH BEDROOM-LIVINGROOM aKITCHEN, BATHROOM W/SHOWER. Call Kevin, 1139, or Mr. Joers, 234-3387. 
Furnished Apt., 503 1/2 W. Jellerson, Duplex, 3 rooms. 2nd floor, gas heal furnished, 289-6307, 234·0596. 

WANTED 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS. Men's $35 · $85 and up. Free house calls. 255-2402. 
College Students: Earn while you learn. Hours flexible. Call 291·1661 lor Interview. 
I DESPERATELY need to buy or borrow a copy of Construction, Principles, Materials and Methods by Olin el. at. Call Deirdre at 6903, 351 Badin. 
NEIL YOUNG NEEDS ALABAMA TIX; CALL 3113, 3115, 3178 
NEED RIDE TO N.D. FROM l.I./N.Y.C. ARfl. AFTER BREAK.BOB l.:l13 
need ride to PIHsburgh Area lor break. Call Susan 284-5369. 
I need many student Miami tickets. Will pay reasonable requests. call 7443. 
RIDE NEEDED -FOR BOSTON AREA (OR R.I., CONN) FOR BREAK. WILL SHARE USUAL. CAN LEAVE THURSDAY NOON. PETE 1791 
Wanted female or male vocalist lor local band preforming and recording original progressiVe rock. Must be professional and hove good stage presence. II Interested call 288·1725 aH. 6:00pm. 
Need ride to PHILLY area lor October break. can leave early. Call Susan or Kale 6737 
WANTED·ND/SMC students with halrcuHing experience. Call·l002 
Desperately need heavy SEX but ftrsl I have to have two Miami Football Tickets. Please coli me at 1142 and see II we con work some night... I mean tickets out. Bill. 
Desperately need RIDE TO DENVER FOR FALL BREAK. Will share even the unusual. Please call me al1142 and ask lor Bill. 
1need a ride to Iowa lor two over October break. Call Jim at 1073 
Need ride lor two from NJ 'to ND 10/25 or 26. Call 1778 or 7883. 
Helpl My Mommy misses me.. Need ride to Fl. Lauderdale area, October break. Colleen, 41-4505 
Need ride Ia DC lor break. Pel&: 1184 
Wanted: Gullor lessons lor 9 yr old faculty daughter. 234-4620 
Needed: Ride to Boston lor October break. Will share expenses. Please call Gerry 6749. 
NEEDED: One Miami GA lor IIHie lister. Call 1675 or 1705. 
GOING TO NY-NJ AREA FOR BREAK? Ride needed -share usual 1705 
Helpl Need ride lor 2 coming back lo ND from Central NJ over Break! Call 3193. 
Need ride BACK to ND from ChaHanooga or vicinity. Share usual. Thanks! ED 1801. 
I n...t rwo Army srud•nt tlck•ts. Pl•o•• coli Mork ot7471. 
Will sell own SISTER far ride to either NY arBOSTON area lorclober breakll Call John. 1817 
Wealthy uncle Is on his last legs, and I must gel home to claim my Inheritance! I desperately need a ride from PIHsburgh alter fall break In order to do this. I'm willing to 
·share all expenses. II you con help, please call Tim at 8706. 
Need riders to Boca Raton-Fl. Lauderdale area lor Fall break. Call Steve 232-1978. 
NEED RIDE TO RICHMOND,VIRGINIA AREA FOR BREAK. CALL BEN AT 232· 8196...BEST TIME TO CALLIS AROUND MIDNIGHT. 


FOR SALE 
COMICS. new and old. DC, Marvel, Warren, more. Free personal delivery on campus. Discounts. 287-6920 evenings and weekends. 
FOR SALE • COLOR PICTURES OF THE SAINT EDWARD'S FIRE. TO MAKE ARRANGEMENTS TO SEE THESE HISTORICAL PICTURES CALL MARK THESING. PHONE • 7735. 

TICKETS 
Need lour Miami GA llx. Call Sian 1942 
Wanted: Sludenl or GA Miami TIX. Call Ed 1251. 
Tall blonde needs just one Alabama lie. Call Jamy 8113. 
NEED 4 STU OR GA TIX FOR MIAMI john 3651 
HELPI Need many GA MIAMI lilt Cathy 7927 
Need GA llx lor Miami. Will pay top $$$. Call between 6 a 8 p.m. 234· 5782 and ask lor Tom. 
NEED ADJACENT MIAMI GA'S. CALL PHIL AT 1863 OR 1850. 
HELP I NEED 5 GA'S FOR THE MIAMI GAME OCT 11 PLEASE CALL COLLEEN 4-1-4539 
Need two student tickets to the Miami game-call 7471 or 277· 8037 and ask lor Beth. 
Need only one Miami GA. Call 8900. 
HELLLLPII need 4 GA'slo the Miami game. Will also lake Student Tlx. Call John *3485. 
Need many MIAMI and ARMY TIXI Coli Jim at 1692 
HELPI Desperately In need of 4 Miami tickets. Parents sparing no expense. Call 1644. 
Family comlngll Need 3 G.A. Army 
llx. Call Joe 1840. 
I NEED 2 OR 4 GA TICKETS FOR MIAMI CALL)OHN AT 287-7850 
Need six G.A. llx. lor Army together. Call Mike 8760. 
I need 5 GA and/or sludenlllckels lor Army game. Call Kevin at 3578. 
Need 2 GA's lor Miami or parents will cut oH CARE packages. Call Brian 3182 
Desperately need two GA or sludentllckels lor MIAMI Please call Betsy 4286 SMC 
Need 1 Miami Student Ticket and Army GA.'s. Will Pay $$. Call George al8576 between 10 and 11. 
NEED ONE MIAMI STUDENT TIX. CALL TOM 1629. 
Need MIAMI GA'SIII WILL TRADE ARMY GA'S OR PAY BIG MONEY. CALL PAUL, 8916 
NEEDED 1 Student or GA llckello lh') Miami game. Will trade 1 Army ticket and/or CASH. Call Jell 1627 
NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ALABAMA GAME. Call Mary 7220. 
Wanted: Miami llxs. Student or GA. Call Merl1173 
"YES" tickets 3rd row padded 2/$15.00 debbie *2184 
DESPERATELY NEED MIAMI GA'S. CALL BRIEN 1416 
STILL NEED: 2 GA or 1 GA a 1 STUD. MIAMI TIX. PLEASE CALL8714-MIKE. 
Must have pair or Miami GA's Big Bucks Call Mark 1048 
NEED 3 GA TICKETS FOR MIAMI • call 233-3658. -­
Need 2 Miami G.A.'s so Fla. friends can see Hurricane gel blown away. Call Glenn 4549 
Two Irish cousins from Dublin want to see NO beat Miami. Need two GA's or reservations at the Faunlalnbleau. Call Bill at 8318. 
NEED 1 or 2 STUDENT OR GA TIX lor MIAMI call 7770 
NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA TIX lor MIAMI call 288-9074 evenings 
BAND MEMBERS NEED TICKETS FOR MIAMI AND ARMY GAMES. CALL 3527 
Desperately need 4 GA'S lor the ARMY game. Call Mike al1755. 
NEED 3 tickets lor Miami game. Call Jell at 1539. 
Need 8 G.A. ARMY Tlx. Please call Mary Pal ol 8091 
DRUGS CAN BE PURCASED WITH THE MEGABUCKS I WILL PAY FOR ARMY GA TIX CALL PAT 8606 
wanted: 2 or 3 Miami GA's. Will pay$. Bruce 1657 
Filthy Rich student needs 1 student or G:A. ticket to Army. Call Tim· 8628 


PERSONALS 
tCelebrallon of women .. SMC Founders' Day--Oclober 141h. 
SMC Founders' Day Community mass a1 11:15 In Church oiLoreHo and "Women In Poetry" al1:30 In the clubhou..-Oclober 12th. 
DP.UUUUUUUUUCEIII 
THE BOSS IS BACKIII THE BOSS IS BACKIII THE BOSS IS BACKIII 
SENIORS... WHITE SAND... BLUE 
·WATERS... SUNNY SKIES...GAMBLING... NASSAU.. BAHAMAS-OCT 19-25. 
Saturday double-header at THE NAZZ -9:00 Lori Deitrich Ann Baurjlaly 10:00 "Nexf' 
liNDA, CINDY AND NESE -So glad you could make II lor o vlsiH 

Mike, Kevin and Kent -good luck on those LSATsl -Beth 
NEED TWO GA MIAMI TICKETS CALL LIZ AT 277·0482 
Someone you care about-a lrlend, a family member · hove a drinking problem? Join us. AI Like, ext. 8809. 
THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE OFFERS GOOD FOOD, GOOD DRINK, LIVE ENTERTAINMENT AND PSEUDO· INTELLECTUAL CONVERSATION EVERY THURSDAY FROM 9-12 IN THE ZAHM BASEMENT. STOP IN AND DISCOVER THE MEANING OF LIFE! II 
AND GOD SAID: "LET IT ROCKIIIII" 
Tomorrow we'll move like Spirits In the Nlghll All NlghH In the nlghfl All Nlghll Janie don't know what she do to yal Them Spirits In the Nlghll All Nlghll In the Nlghll Alllll Nlghll Stand up and lei her shoot right through yal 
WILL DO TYPING. NEAT, ACCURATE, EXPERIENCED. REASONABLE RATES. CALL: 287·5162. 
THE BOSS IS BACKIII THE BOSS IS BACKIII THE BOSS IS BACKIII 
Women: Beware of the German Gigolo; he's a virtual BEAST! 
Greg Buller! Hear him at THE NAZZ at 9:00. 
Frak. Good luck on the LSATsl Beth 
Someone you care about-a lrlend, a family member · have a drinking problem? Join us. AI Like, ext. 8809. 
GIRLS: "Crash" courses gelling you down? Are you looking lor a "Dynamite" lime? Come participate In a"onco In o lllellmeexperlencelll" Fourth ftoor Howard's "Kamikaze Memorial" 9:00 Sol. night. 
NEED RIDE TO NEW JOISEY. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL 1419 ED. 
NEXT rocks the Nazz Sall'rday night al10:301 
BE A BELIEVER IN MIDWEST ROCK 'N' ROLL... COME LISTEN TO THE MICHAEL STANLEY BAND. Thurs Ocl30 al8 pm In SMC O'Laughlln Aud. Reserved sealing ticket sales begin MONDAY. Price: $6 NOW, Increased to $7 AFTER BREAK. 
WANTED: RIDE TO CHICAGO O'HARE ON SAT., 10/18. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. PLEASE CALL SUE 4992 
Kathleen, 

Buon compleanno, bella! Hope 
the nexl 20 are as great as the last. 
Love, 
Paul 
mom, dad, chris, jon , and EGGROLLSIII what more could I wanl? Lisa 
ZAPPA ZAPPA ZAPPA ZAPPA 
WE HATE BRUCEII FIRE THE BOSSI WE HATE BRUCEII FIRE THE BOSSI WE HATE BRUCEII FIRE THE BOSSI WE HATE BRUCEII FIRE THE BOSSI 
Thafs not very nice. Whars a Bruce to do? 
Two people need a ride to Chicago O'Hare airport lorOctober break. We will spill the cost of gos. Call Cheryl al 4629 
Mur-lag, Your birthday calls lor 
another candid "couch" shot . 
without help from usl Hudak Alicia, 
I'm looking forward to a great 
weekend. You are so Important 
and special to me, I don't know 
what I would do without you. Your 
smile llghb up my world. Slay 
hungry anrJ keep on smiling just the 
way you are. 
love, 
Kevin 
HOW YOUU DOOINIIII 
TO TWINKLE TOES FROM NORTH CAROLINA: WELCOMEIII ENJOYIII iove, Dorth~ ltom.lhe Land of Notre Dame. 
Gel a Job at the FU8AR lonlghlll 
Peter Crowe: So what do you think about 
sex111111 
Sue K. 
Happy Birthday, Texlll Love, Your Roomie 
ATTENTION DUMPED NO WOMEN Tired at being "just hlends"? Sick at hovlng your lace used as a door­mal by Insensitive males? Bored with "no commitment" relation­ships? We've got the answer! JOIN THE BEE SOCIETY-where male exploitation Is at Its llnesll For Info: Call Killer Queens 2186 
Some of my best friends are doormats. 
Today Is a NATIONAL WHITE PANTS HOLIDAY. Please observe the holiday!II 
Braz, Do you remember your birthday? Hope II was lunl Love: Moira, Kieler, MaryCialr, Laura, Carolln, and Patty. 
Sllv, 
What's happening with the 
album? Slash Records will break the 
contract II we don't start recording 
Immediately. Don't worry about 
John Doe, he Is extinct. 
Exene 
Jenny, Have tun passing lime on your birthday! Margl 
JJ, 
You're 191 Have you mel him? MO'BF 
Fox, Be prepared lor serious sour actionI Margl 
Sweet Pea and Monlla, You are the grealesll Thanks lor sharing one great dinner. Love, The Four Musketeers. 
My dear friends, I'm coming home . I've done my lime. Can't wall to see youll Vldo 
Jay, 
Did you see the lovely lull moon 
on Wednesday nlghl? The Mazda 
lull of arldes sure did. 
The Birthday Girl. 
Jennifer, Bonne Annlversel Rowth. 
).).M. 
"19th" birthdays Jre betler than "!lith's" 
M.F.R. 
Maytag, Get ready for th<· tailgate · complete with ke~ and cake! Mary 

r 
i 
i 

Senior George lams raced home to South Bend after a year at the Naval Academy, and many people, himself included, are very glad he did. See his feature on page 18. 
by Gary Grassey Sports Writer 
With a 10-3 record and a No.8 ranking in the Great Lakes Region, the Notre Dame soccer team begins the most crucial part of its season tonight against Purdue (8 p.m.) on Cartier Field where the Irish are unbeaten this fall. Rich Hunter's squad still has its sights set on its first evet NCAA tournament bid. 
"We're not out of this thing yet," Hunter said yesterday afternoon as his injury-ridden squad prepared to practice in­doors after they were tossed off Cartier after a closed-practice mandate from Dan Devine. "We're playing with our destiny still in our own hands." 
That certainly appears to be the case, despite last Sunday's upset loss to Marquette. With 14 games left to play, the Irish will face Miami (Ohio) this Sunday on Cartier, Bowling Green and Western Michigan at home next Wednesday and Friday, respec­tively, and then trav ·1 to meet the nat. ,. 'l·.· ; ],,;d Nittany T ~. ut: \:nn Statt: in nine days on the first stop of their Eastern tour. 
Miami, Bowling Gre.en, and Westem Michigan are all ranked ahead of the Irish in the latest Great Lakes poll. Wins in those three home contests and a solid. showing against Penn State should inch Notre Dame closer to the fourth and final bid in the region. 
"If we can just get healthy again," Hunter said, "We've got a realistic shot." 
Injuries have been an on and off problem since the team broke from camp in August, but within the past two weeks the bumps and bruises have come in 
droves. 

On the probable list for to­night are forwards Kevin Lovejoy, Mike Mai, and Ed O'Malley, who have been playing part time or not at all since last week. Halfbacks Dannie McCurrie (out since the Indiana game two weeks ago), Bill Murphy, and Ted Schwartz (who will wear a protective cast on his broken hand) are also probable for the Purdue contest. Fullback Phil Sweetser is doubtful with a pulled hamstring. 
The definite scratches are Jim Stein and Sami Kahale. Stein, of course, has been lost for the season with a broken leg, while Kahale, the team's leading scorer (nine goals a,nd five assists), is out for at least ten days with a severe contusion on his lower right leg as a result ofa kick from a Bethel player in Wednesday's 3-0 Irish triumph. 
"People are starting to come back," said co-captain Lovejoy about the injury list, "And we've still got a long way to go. It's tough to say how the rating board works, but we're not out of this by any means." 
Hunter attributed Sunday's loss to Marquette to the play of Irish defenders in one-on-one situations. "Our defense really hasn't been beaten," he said, "but they also haven't played the ball out the way they should, so we've been working hard this week on not taking any chances and just playing it out." 
"We've been making a lot of dumb mistakes," Lovejoy agreed, "and the key there is concentration. We just can't afford to lose that." 
With most of Hunter's first string lineup available for Purdue tonight, the one . un­answered question i..; the goal­keeping situation. "I haven'_t made up my mind yet who will play keeper the rest of the year," Hunter said. He has alternated sophomore Gerard McCarthy and junior John Milligan in re­cent weeks, but neither has as-. sumed the role entirely. 
"I'd really like to see us move up in our region," said co-captain McCurrie. "The playoffs would be nice, but these next three 

Friday, October 10,-1980 -page 20 
Head for N.Y. 
Royals nip Yanks, lead 2-0 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP)­City has nominated Paul The Kansas City Royals strung Splittorff, who won 14 games together four straight hits in the during the regular season. third inning, including Willie Leonard, a hard-throwing 29­Wilson's two-run triple and an year-old right-hander who was 
RBI double by U.L. Washington born in Brooklyn, N.Y., retired 
ton, and held on to edge theNew the Yankees in order in five York Yankees 3-2 for a com­nnings. manding 2-0 lead in the best-of­He yielded a pair of harmless 
five American League singles in the second. He settled Championship Series. down to retire eight batters in a 
Dennis Leonard, Kansas City's row after the Yankees scored only 20-game winner, scattered twice in the fifth ino;ng on Graig seven hits before giving way to Nettles' inside-the-park home Dan Quisenberry, top reliever in the League this year, following 
ReggieJackson's leadoff single in the ninth. 
Phils , Stros play today
The Royals jumped on New 

York's Rudy May and scored all the runs they needed in the third. HOUSTON (AP)-The 
No team ever has rallied from a National League Championship two-game deficit_ in any league Series switched artificial surfaces championship series since the yesterday, moving from current playoff method began in Philadelphia's Veteran's 1969. Stadium to the Houston 
The Yankees will call on 22-Astrodome, a house of horrors game winner TommyJohn to try for visiting clubs this season. to prevent a sweep when the "It's a pleasure to be home," series switches to New York for said Houston Manager Bill tonight's third g~me. Kan~as Virdon, whose Astros split the 
first two games in this best-of­five pennant playoff at Philadelphia. 
It should be a pleasure. The Astros were awesome at home 
this season, compiling a 55-26

Kickers in huntfor NCAAs 
record under the dome, com­
games (Miami, Bowling Green, pared to 38-44 on the road. and Western Michigan) in par­That doesn't scare the Phillies, ticular could separate us from though. They won 21 oftheirlast the second half of the top ten in 28 games on the road to finish 42­our region. If we can win these, 39 away from home, their best then we'll have a chance to break 
road record since 1976. "We've played down here be­into that fourth (playoff) spot." 
fore, you know," snapped
CORNER KIGKS-Purdue 

Philadelphia Manager Dallasdefeated the Irish last year at Green. "It's not as ifwe're doing West Lafayette in a 3-2 decision something completely new.
and has always proved to be a We're 9-3-{or the year against the tough opponent...The Miami Astros. We must have won somegame, Sunday afternoon at down here," he said.
2 p.m. will be the first-ever In fact, the Phillies have wonmeeting between the squads. 
four of six under the dome inThe Redskins hold the No. 5 each of the past two seasons.
rating in the Great Lakes region. 
run, Leonard's only walk of the game and Willie Randolph's RBI double. 
TheYankees had the potential tying run thrown out at the plate for the final out of the eighth inning thanks to some quick Kansas City fielding.Randolph singled with one out.After Bobby Murcer struck out,Bob 'X'atson ripped a drive that bounced off the base of the leftfield wall. 
(continued on page 16) 
More important than playing indoors is the state of mind the 
. Phillies will bring with them for this afternoon's third game of this series. They lost a game they should have won Wednesday night, leaving 14 runners on base, 10 of them in the last four innings. Philadelphia had the bases loaded with one out in the seventh and did notscore and the bases loaded with one out in the ninth and did not score. 
The 7-4, 10-inning loss in Game Two can stay with a team, but the Phillies insist it will not stay with them. 
"We just didn't do it," said slugger Mike Schmidt, who was the tying run at the plate when he flled to right ending the game. "We can't worry about oppor­tunities getting away. We just did not get the job done, that's all." 
Pitcher Tug McGraw, full of pleasantries in the often grim Phillies' dressing room which has · been described by some visitors as a demilitarized zone, tried to lighten the load of the painful loss. 
"We justdon'twantourfansto get overconfident, that's all," of­fered McGtaw. "If we had wo·n (Wedn,~sd~y), ~he third game would h.1,., Ill'·. •1 ar. .J.nti-climax. 

Never bet against t}Je Irish 
A few days after the last-minute win over Michigan I called home. I wanted to make sure my dad and brothers had caught the replay and check up on some other things. . 
After a decent gossip session with my Mom, Dad got on the phone and we talked about the game. 
He told me he'd had lunch with some Notre 
Dame alumni and they had a message for me i:o 
deliver to Coach Devine. 
"Tell him he can only ask the good Lord for one 
miracle a year," Dad chuckled. 
Right, Dad. Love ya, Dad. 

Why do fathers always think they're right? Why are fathers always right? 
I can remember when I watched Friday night high school games, Saturday afternoon college games, Sunday pro-games, Monday night games and of course, my younger brother's games with Dad. He always knew the right thing to do, could predict a winner, answer the trivia questions. I guess my father has taught me a lot, and look what he got. 
"My daughter wants to be asports wrzter! Where didI go wrong?" 
Though Dad has never given me anything but some constructive criticism and lots of en­couragement, he must be bewildered. 
A sports wrtter! 

Gee Dad, ifyou think I shock you, you should talk to a couple coaches ­
"What's a young lady like you know about running a 40?" 
Or a couple students, like the ones at Michigan State-
Beth 
Huffman 

"You're tbe sports editor?" 
It's O.K. dad, I can take care of myself-you taught me well. And believe me, those lessons were not all easy. 
Last year I went home to see my brother play in a high school game instead of joining the masses of Irish fans at the Michigan game inAnnArbor. I had erroneously selected Michigan to defeat Notre Dame in the Observer football picks-and boy, did I take a dive when Bob Crable blocked a field goal and the Irish won 12-10 on the strength ofChuck Male's leg. 
"But Dad, they were supposedto be tough and, we'vegot a couple of key injuries." "There's one thing you've got to remember, Beth, you 
should never, never bet against the Irish. " Right, Dad. But, what would Dad do this weekend? The Irish injuries are not only key, they're 
crucial. Cichy, Masztak, Carter, Huffman. • Duerson... 1 And, the Hurricances are tough, and they are out for revenge. What would Dad do? 
"Never, never bet against the Irish." 
Right, Dad. The Irish by three. 
,,
< ji•,.r ·•·¥,.1-. 1}-d:, 






