... fohn & Yoko -page 7 

VOL. XV, NO. 67 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1980 
Students to meet Roemer concerning weekend melee 
By Mary Fran Callahan keep their appointment with 
Senior Copy Editor Roemer. 
Roemer declined all comment 

The group of Notre Dame on the situation, saying he owed 
students who plans to bring the students "the courtesy" of 
charges of . false arrest and discussing the matter privately 
incarceration against the South with them before commenting 
Bend Police Department will publicly. The dean said, 
meet today with Dean of however, that he will issue a 
Students James Roemer. statement today clarifying his 
Roemer became involved in position on the entire matter. 
the incident when he was The seven students contend 
notified by an assistant rector in that they became involved in 
Carroll Hall of the student fights with men aged 45-50 after 
arrests. He then arranged for the one of the men allegedly stole a 
release of the students, at 10:30 student's wallet, following the 
p.m. However, the students Notre Dame-Air Force football claimed in yesterday's Observer game. The students say they that Roemer first learned of the never retaliated in the fighting. incident at approximately 5 Police, however, contend that p.m., and did not act on their the students exhibited disorderly behalf at that time. conduct. Four of the students 
Two days later, the students spent approximately six hours in This is apicture ofPasquerilla East. Women will be living i11 Pasquerilla West afterthe break. (photo by Rachel 
visited Roemer in search of jail, though the police did not Blount). 
sound legal advice, but were officially press charges, 
unable to arrange for an ap­Since no witnesses of the 
pointment until today. Mean­incident have come forward, the 
while, the students contacted a details of the confrontation re­
local attorney who agreed to main nebulous, with students counsel them free of charge. and police still pleading their They do intend. however, to cases. 
submission of receipts for campaign expendi­
By Tim Vercellotti
In Caribbean Senior Staff Reporter tures, and the placement of poste.rs in" restricted areas" on election day. Tara Kenney, spokeswoman for the committee,
The seating of the five recently elected student elaborated on the violations. According to
senators, including Frank Tighe, the contested
Force may shut down 
Kenney, the posters in question consisted of
victor in District 2; and a presentation ofproposed 
sheets of computer printout paper, taped
revisions in the constitution of the Campus Life 
By Stephm C. Smtih converted submarine school on together. Kenney pointed out that was an
Council dominated the business considered in last 
Associated Press Wrtter the once-bustling U.S. Naval infraction of an election rule which required that
night's meeting of the Student Senate.
base here. 

the size of posters be limited to eleven inches by A report submitted by a special Senate 
KEY WEST, Fla.-When "But whatever brought about seventeen inches. "This was admitted by Hans," 
investigative committee upheld the decision of
this task force, when Carter Kenney stated.
Sens. Richard Stone, D/Fla., and the Ombudsman Election committee to disqualify 
Frank Church, D/ldaho, bally­established it he fulfilled a long­The second violation concerned Hoerdemann's
District 2 Senate candidate Hans Hoerdemann,
standing, extremely valid mili­

hooed the presence of Soviet receipts for his posters. As told by Kenney, it was
making Frank Tighe the winner. 
tary requirement to have a group Hoerdemann's belief that the computer sheets
combat troops in Cuba last year, The report stated that "OBUD has the right to 
they threatened to stall action on of people focus in on the which were used to create the posters had "no
disqualify a candidate." The full Senate voted to 
the SALT II treaty until Caribbean." resale value", in this.case Hoerdemann felt that no
accept the decision, in spite of Keenan Hall
But the future ofthe task force receipts were necessary.
President Carter acted. 
President Bill Carson's announcement that five of
is now up to Ronald Reagan. The election rules as set up by the Election
So with great fanfare, Carter the six hall presidents of the dorms in District 2 
set up a new military command Some high-ranking military Committee require that all donations, with the
support a new election, or a count of the ballots 
here, just 90 miles from the officers say a Carter administra­exception of human labor, be counted in the $25
from the recent runoff. The ballots are in OBUD's
tion plan to scuttle the task force budget accorded to each candidate. Although
communist island. possession at present, according to OBUD 
Today, as Carter, Stone and has been tabled until Reagan Hoerdemann was in violation ofthe rule, it was the
director Tom Phillis.
takes over.

Church savor their last weeks in committee's conclusion that "the rule is
The report pointed out that Hoerdemann was
Other sources say Reagan's ambiguous", and that the "decision on computer
office-all were ousted by the found in violation of three election rules; the rules voters-the future of the fcontinued on page 4} governed the size of campaign posters, the 
famtinm:d on paxe 3}

Caribbean Contingency Joint Task Force is cloudy. 
"I hope to God they don't disband this headquarters," said Rear Adm. Robert McKenzie who heads the task force. 
"We've left a rotten apple in 
ND reseachers work toward cancer cure the middle of the Caribbean basin down here and that rotten 
• 
apple v.;,e left down here is Fidel 
Castro. By Sheila Shunick classifications ofAlpha, Beta and interferons, according to and he claims the best anti-tumor 
Gamma interferons. One of the Burleson. Both kinds are being interferon may be known in less 
Cancer researchers in the major dilemmas, said Burleson, used by ND researchers. than three months. 
Notre Dame microbiology de­is in determining which type of The exogenous approach in­The second approach, the 
partment may be close to some interferon would be most effect­volves the synthesis of inter­endogenous method, focuses on 
important findings regarding the ive in the treatment of cancer. ferons in the laboratory. These interferon inducers rather than 
use of interferon. According to Much research has been done on interferons are then purified and the interferons themselves. The Although he's aware some Prof. Gary Burleson, enthusiasm Alpha and Beta interferons but injected into the patient. Prof. ideal interferon inducer would military officials scoff at his is running high as a group of Gamma interferons, for the most Morris Pollard has developed produce high levels ofcirculating 
command, McKenzie says he's talented professionals and stu­part, have been ignored due to animal models to be used in these interferons when injected into a convinced he and his 70 officers dents push toward their ultimate the difficulty involved in the cancer research experiments. patient It would be non-toxic and enlisted men have an goal: development of a way to production ofthem. Researchers These animals have different and would not illicit an immunity important military mission in an use interferon as an effective, in the ND microbiology depart­kinds ofcancer, and by injecting response. At present, noted area the United States has ig­non-toxic anti-tumor agent, a ment believe that Gamma inter­the purified interferons into Burleson, an ideal interferon nored for too long. "cure for cancer." ferons may be the most effective. these animals, their effectiveness inducer has not been found. 
"I've heard all the rumors. I've Interferon is a glyco-protein Research is being done in all with the different kinds ofcancer Several studies are being made heard it was conceived because discovered in 1957. It may be three categories. can be compared and contrasted. and much progress has occurred, of political motivations," the found in many different forms, There are two main approach­Much progress is being made in 
(continr1ed on page 3}

admiral said in his office in a all falling within the three main es to the study and research of this area, according to Burleson, 



---~­
NeWS Brie,b 

Thursday, December4, 19so-page 2 
c============*==============================~
by The Observer and The AJJociated PreiS 
Mao Tse-tung's widow admitted in court yesterday that she led a group in rigging up false evidence against then-Chinese President Liu Shao-chi and ordered the arrest of his glamorous, U.S.-born wife on charges she was an American spy, the official Xinhua news agency reported. Peking Radio reported earlier that Jiang Qing quibbled and evaded questions in response to charges that she led "the nation's greatest frame-up"-the seizure of Liu, who died in jail in 1969, and his wife Wang Guangmei. ('hinese sources had said Jiang Qing, leader of the Gang of Feu, appeared self­assured before the Supreme People's Court as she denied cha.rges she ordered the persecution ofLuiand Wang. They are belteved to have been arrested in the summer of1967. Liu was exonerated posthumously last spring; Wang works as the direct?r of ~oreign affairs department of the Chinese Academy ofSoc tal SCiences after serving 12 years in jail. Xinhua reporfed later, however, that after first denying "time and again that the special group had been under her direct control and command ... after large amounts of evidence were exhibited and statements in testimony read out in court, Jiang Qing finally admitted: 'I was in direct charge of the special group for handling the case'."-AP 
Poland's Communist Partvcalled on workers yesterday for a return to law and order after resolving a split in the leadership by shaking up the P.glitbu,ro and elevating a hard-line, ex-police boss to the ruling body. As the revamped leadership renewed efforts to deal with militant trade unions and economic crisis, there were warnings from Western capitals against a Soviet intervention and Moscow accused the West of waging "psychological war" against Poland. The Communist Party Central Committee dealt with divisions in the leadership by dropping four members from the 12-member Politburo in a move seen as a consolidation of the power of First Secretary Stanislaw Kania. Two new Politburo members were named; Mieczyslaw Moczar, a former interior minister who fell from power after his police suppressed worker riots in 1970, and Tadeusz Grabski, purged two years ago by Edward Gierek and named a deputy prime minister after Gierek was ousted as party leader by Kania on Sept. 5 after nation/ wide strikes. -AP 
In a suicide note made public yesterday, French novelist Romain Gary said that his suicide should not be linked to the death ofhis ex-wife, actress Jean Seberg. The note said: "lovers of broken hearts are kindly asked to look elsewhere." Gary's body was discovered in his Left Bank Parisian apartment last night. Police said he had placed a gun at the roofofhis mouth and fire~_one shot. In a note addressed to his publisher, Editions Gallimlud, and found near his body, Gary implied that at 66, he felt his literary work was complete and that he had nothing more t9 say. His publishers released the note's text which said "no connection withJean Seberg." But friends said the French writer, film director, diplomat and war hero had continually expressed grief since Miss Seberg's body was found in his car 15 months ago, a victim of alcohol and barbiturates. Gary contended the 44-year-old Iowa-born film star was driven to death because ofa false story planted by the FBI in 1970 saying she was pregnant by a leader of the Black Panthers, which she financially supported. -AP 
The buildup of Soviet forces has President Carter concerned, he said yesterday, and warned the Russians that military action against Poland "would have the most negative consequences." Carter, in a tersely written statement issued by the White House, warned that U.S. policies and attitudes "toward the Soviet Union would be directly and very adversely affected by any Soviet use of force in Poland." The president's statement referred to the Russian military buildup on the Polish border as "unprecedented" and added: "Foreign military intervention in Poland would have most negative consequences for East-West relations in general and U.S.-Soviet relations in particular." OtherU.S. officials had said yesterday there is no evidence that the Soviet Union has decided to move troops across the Polish border but one Carter aide told reporters "there has been indication ofgrowing Soviet readiness to engage" in military intervention. This aide, who asked anonymity, said there were no signs that such action was imminent. -AP 
Juniper Press, the only student-owned and operated publishing house in the country, announced yesterday that it has printed a limited second edition of its publication, Molarity: On the Road to Selling Out by Michael Molinelli. This will be the final printing of the work, since Juniper Press is operated in conjunction with the American Studies Book Publishing class and will disband for a year at the end of the semester. Molarity is the fifth publication produced by the student-run press and the first to go into a second edition. The class is led by American Studies Professor Emeritus Elizabeth Christman. The book, described by Jl.lniper Press President Thomas Langan as "a classic yearbook ofstudent life at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," is on sale at both schools' bookstores. -The Observer 
Mostlv sunnyandwarmer.Higharound40.Fair and not as cotd at night. [ow in the upper 30s. Partly cloudy tomorrow. Highs in the upper 40s. -AP 

Inside Thursday 
Senateseardhesforrespect 
"No taxation without representation." 
-Anonymous American battle cry, mid-18th century 
"You guys must be really hard up for stories." 
-Paul]. Riehle, Dec. 1980 
It is not a new idea to propose that the term · "student government" is a misnomer. "Government" implies the power to govern, legislate and take action, three powers which our student government is notoriously lacking. We made this point last year, and drew an angry, if puzzlingly vague, rebuttal from the Student Body President. Bill Roche's article reflected the philosophies ofhis and past Student Government administrations, and it frustrated not only ob­servers but ultimately the student body. 
At best, student government can accurately represent its constituency to the Administration, since it does not actually have the power to enact legislation. Paul Riehle, the current student body president, realizes this. "Every time I talk to you, I'm reminded that we don't have any power," Riehle noted recently. 
That is being realistic about the situation at hand-the relationship of the student govern­ment to the Administration. The University holds all the cards, and we can't even get a seat at the table. Others who are joining Riehle in his new Student Senate see things the same way. That's a good basis on which to begin. 
Student Government leaders we talked to this week all realize these_ facts: the University is not going to change things because students say they should be changed, and in fact the University rarely listens to students to see what they think should be changed. Student Union Director Rich Coppola even pointed out that on pg. 4 7 ofDuLac, under the heading "Rules," it is stated, "Students are required to abide by them (rules), as they are expected to abide by the federal and state laws, but also to criticize and help improve them year by year." Ho ho ho. 
The obvious question then is Why doesn't the Administration listen to us? Riehle feels it is because we never had one distinguishable voice, one unified position backed by solid support. Students never knew where to voice their opinions in the maze ofStudent Government acronyms, so Riehle expanded and renamed the Board of Commissioners, now called the Student Senate. 
As a revamped and better publicized forum, the Senate will supposedly have greater credibility and influence as the voice of the students. But as Riehle admitted, "the Senate will be the advocate of the student position, and that's all you can ever hope to accomplish hen:... because we're never going to have a direct part in the decision-making process; but our indirect effectiveness will be increased," he hopes. That's pretty realistic. 
But so what? Are we simply unified in our 
futility? Even if the University listens to us, what 
Hope do we have that they'll do anything? Frank 
Tighe, a newly-elected Student Senator, said, "I 
.Tom 
Jackman. 
Executive News Editor 


don't think the people who work underneath the Golden Dome are sitting there saying, 'Here's another way we can screw the people."' Tighe, like Riehle and Coppola, is guardedly optimistic that with a unified voice, students will be better able to convince the University to see the other side, or at least make progress toward a goal. 
"Things around here change very slowly, ifthey ever change at all," Tighe quoted the Eagles as singing once. "Just because things aren't going to change while we're students doesn't mean that it's not worthwhile to try for," Tighe declared. Perhaps he should have quoted Aretha Franklin's "R-E-S-P-E-C-T''-that seems to be what Student Government is shooting for this year, instead of direct, immediate change. That's thinking small­
but realistically. 

Observer Notes--....., 
The Observer is always looking for new report­ers-. experience is totally unnecessary. Ifyou like to wnte, and are willing to contribute a couple of ?ours a week, our news department wants you. If mterested, come up to our offices (3rd floor LaFortune) anytime between 12 and 1 p.m. during the week, and talk to one of our news editors. They'll be glad to get you started. 
_The_Qhseryer_ Design Editor . .... . ... Steve Swonk Design AJSts. . . .. . A.Angel Fultz Tom O'Connor Deirdre Murphy Day/Night Techs. . .. Bruce Oakley P. Citie ClaHifieds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Angel Fultz News Eddor...... . Tom Jackman Features Layout ... ....... Tom O'Connor Sports Copy Edllor. ...... Michael Ortman Systems Tech.. ........... Chris Albertolli ND Day Editor..... Ryan Van Berkmoes SMC Day EditOr . ...... Cathy Domanico Ad Dmgn ... Jeanne Laboe Photographer. ............ ,Rachel Blount T1mes .................. Tom O'Connor  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Thl Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  


-_,, 
I-----------------,
1h Price I

II  for Ladies 1 All Night! I  
I1 1  Thursday Night Ladies Night- IIi  
I  ,  I  

·----------------~ 
The Observer 
Thursday, December 4, 1980-page 3 
... Trip 

{co~tim1ed from page 41 
the ND-USC football game the following day. The seniors will stay in the Sheraton British Colonial Hotel located in the center oftown near the shopping 
district.  There  will  be  four  
students per hotel room.  
Activities  planned  by  the  

committee include boat trips, cook-outs, happy hours on the beach, and an excursion to a desert island. In addition to Ms. Renz, this year's committee members are Colleen Rooney, Nick Christy andJimJohnston. 
A $25 down payment will be collected next Tuesday and Wednesday. Deposits will be taken in LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and H-9 p.m. and at the Student Activities Office in LaFortune at Notre Dame from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Icrmtim1edfrom page 1I 
print-out paper and supplies should be stated in the rules." 
The placement of campaign posters in Keenan and Farley, considered restricted areas on election day, was the third technicality cited in the upholding of Hoerdemann's disqualification. 
According to Kenney, Hoerdemann stated that 
he was not aware that the posters had been put up. Nonetheless, the committee found the rule to be violated. 
While the committee's report supported OBUD's decision, it also called for a closer exammation of what one Senator termed "ambiguous" rules. 
Changes in the constitution of the Campus Life Council were also presented at last night's meeting. 
In an effort to "make it responsible to the students" Student Body President Paul Riehle unveiled several suggested constitutional changes, one being a change in the wording of the constitution's preamble in regards to the types of recommendations the CLC would make. The phrase ~·relative to hall life" was deleted, in hopes 
Icontin11edfrom page 1I 
Burleson believes. One study has shown that interferons can be induced by associating lipo­somes with a compound which would not normally induce in­terferons. This discovery means 
many more non-toxic in­terferon inducers are possible. Prof. Charles Kulpa is in charge of making these liposomes at 
Though both the exogenous and the endogenous approaches 
being used in research, Burleson and his colleagues feel that the endogenous approach is 
more attractive. The 
A second deposit of$75 will be collected during the second semester. Students who have not made a previous down payment may do so at that time if spaces are available. 
Fisherholds 0-CAdvent masses 
Masses during the Advent season will be held for all off­campus students every Sunday throughout the rest of the semester. Join your off-campus friends each week in Fisher Hall's Chapel at" 7 p.m. and celebrate this joyous season. 


The new Stepan Science bmfdi!lg nears mmpletion, as sem !1ere in thir pl10to by Radwl Bl01mt. 
... Senate 
ofmaking the work ofthe council less restricted to 
the residence halls. 

Riehle also proposed that the make-up of the council be revised so that the five elected student senators would replace the four hall vice-presi­dents and the off-campus commissioner, and that the one representative from the Hall President's Council to serve on the CLC would also be an HPC representative from the student senate. These six students would join the SBP, the student union director, and the student judicial coordinator, who are also senators, as the student half of the CLC. 
According to Riehle, the presence of nine senators on the CLC would make things "more effective. "We (the senate) can have a direct input on the CLC," Riehle explained. 
Other proposals include a non-voting role for the Vice-president for Student Affairs, and a change in the selection for the hall rectors and the faculty members who will serve on the Council. 
The senate concluded the meeting with a motion of adjournment until after the semester break. Riehle asked the senators to consider the suggested revisions, and he stated that "it (the changes in the CLC) will be the first thing to be t'lken up next semester." 
... Cancer 
purification of the interferons in the exogenous approach is not only difficult, but also very expensive, according to Burleson. However, purification is not necessary in the endo­genous approach. Also, when interferons are injected into the Campanella, Bridgid Kenniebrew, Frank Moffitt, John Sheehan, Dorothy Walker, Bob BonTempo, and Ed Baracchini. 

---··---------------------, 
HoljlCrossFathers 
UniversityofNotre Dame 

A community 
of faith and fri~ndship where young men prepare to become Holy CroSs priests. 
----.... ·--------------­
For further information or vocational counseling 
with no obligation co•otact: Rev. Andre Leveille, c.s.c. Box 541 Notre Dame. Ind. 46556 
• 219 283-6385 
.,.
. r 
body, as in the exogenous ap­proach, they are excreted by the 


body within 24 hours. But when Travel United Limo To/From Chicago O'Hare Airport 
the body makes its own inter­ferons, as in the endogenous 
22 00

approach, they do not disappear One Way Fare ..... $ · Deliver to your airline at O'Hare Airport as quickly. Round Trip .......... $39.00 O'H 'ck t L 1 1Cars R taurant 
The students involved in this arc pt -up a ower A:>ve · on es research with Burleson, Kulpa, 
Save over 50% on Round Trip To and From O'Hare 
and Pollard are Dave Herzog, Florence Germain, Kathy 

New Schedule: 
-
United Limo, Inc. 
********************************\ 
NOW LEAVING ND BUS SHELTER
*

ATTENTION JUNIORS! ; 

6 
TIMES A DAY 
* 

O'IIARF PICK-liP
Morris Inn Rooms ! r--·
; ~,~,, 1 ..o •••"'" No<1"•••• 
Oaenr. lu•••" ,
Are Available For ; 
JUNIOR PARENTS ! 

~ l~') McKINLE" 
MISHAWAt<A 
i//11 ~ 1 fll/l' hu111 {111111 tJIIf Ul/1\lllllllh' 1•11/lllt 111 tlt··ll' 
* 

l'll'Ol\l' mal.1· n·wn atiun' 2~ hoour' in arh .ml'l' ·
WEEKEND ;-* ( all I'm n·wn at inn' l'oor 
\'1. ahuut 'Jil'l·ialrharll·r r;lll'' 
Pil'k-up ;~tllulida' Inn. •II. hart 
*· 

Pil'k-up atllulida' Inn. \1il'hi~:ar1 ( it'
Lottery Dec. 4 -Thursday ; CaU United Limo, Inc. (219)255-3068 
·OFFICE,

6 p.m. Lafortune Rathskeller ~ PICK-UP 
Bittersweet & McKinley, Big Bear Restaurant, Town & Country Center, POINTS: ' Dame Bus Sheller, Mlchlana Airport .
********************************** 

. . . .. .. ~ • • ............ f 

r 
I 
I The Observer Thursday, December 4, 1980-page 4 
I 
' 
l r Seniortrip 
Class of'82 picks Bahamas 

By Mary Leavitt Saint Mary's News Editor 
The Class of'82 has picked the Bahamas as the site ofnext year's Senior Trip, and the biggest question surrounding this choice seems to be why the Bahamas was chosen after its "failure" this year. 
"The reason that there was so much trouble with this year's Senior Trip wasn't really because 
committee member Nancy Renz said. "People got upset because they had made a deposit for a trip 
~ EXHIBITION AND SALE 7J OF ORIGINAL GRAPH·I·C ART LaFortune Center December 2, 1980 Tuesday 1 0 a.m. -5 p.m. Arranged by Mason Graphics, Inc. and the Notre Dame Student Union '" I Services Commission ~ 
We've got five! 
Asitgets colder, squirrels like this one are busily htdingtheir nuts. (photo by Rachel Blount). 
THE ORIENT EXPRESS CHINESE COOK BOOK by Iris Friedlander and Marge Lin. Now you can make one from column A and two from column B -right in your own home, easily and inexpensively! Con­tains dozens ofsimplified, yet authen­tic, Chinese recipes that require no special utensils and very little time. $6.95 
IN GRANDMOTHER'S DAY: A 
Legacy of Recipes, Remedies & 
Country Wisdom from 100 Years 
Ago, by Jean Cross. Packed with ac­
tual recipes & remedies popular dur­
ing the J880s and 90s, this book has 
that same antique-y, nostalgic, and historical appeal as turn-of-the­century Sears catalogs. Reveals how people got by before modern medicine, conveniences, aerosols, roll-ons, etc. $9.95 
'L' W .•­

CREATING AN INTERIOR, by Helene Levenson. Ideas, inspiration, and practical guidelines on interior designing. Includes plenty of color and b/w photos, floorplans, and countless invaluable suggestions on choosing and arranging furniture, carpets, mirrors. curtains, lamps, artwork, and more. What better house-warming gift for anyone mov­ing into a new house or apartment? 
$14.95 
The Hammefo" 
_ 
Notre Dame' Bookstore( Notre Dame,i Indiana, 465561 (219) 283-35681 

Classic Cookery from the Cuisines of Eastern Europe, by Marina Polvay. A MUST cookbook for anyone of Eastern European ex­traction, this book has recipes from Germany, Austria, Czechoslovakia Yugoslavia, Hungary, Rumania, Bulgaria. Illustrated with color photographs as well as pictures of the region. $9.95 
THE MUSICAL: A Look At The American Musical Theater, by Richard Kislan. Traces American Musical Theater from the days travelling minstrels, to vaudeville and 
',burlesque, and right up to recent -B 'way productions. Looks at the lives and contributions of great composers and lyricists like Jerome Kern arid Rodgers and Hammerstein. Also dis­cusses the major elements that go into a musical production. $7.95 
-to California to see a football and a basketball game and all of a sudden, they weren'tgetting that anymore. Naturally, they were mad when their second choice, the Bahamas, was named as the Senior Trip." 
Although the Bahamas was the first choice for next year's trip, the vote count itself was close. 
"There was only a difference of about 11 votes between the Bahamas and San Francisco," Miss Renz explained. "We chose the Bahamas finally because there was a cost difference of about $100 to $150 between the two trips. We felt it would be smarter to go with the less expensive trip." 
"There was also a problem in getting hotel space in San Francisco; there were alot of conventions being held there," she added. 
The cost of next year's trip to the Bahamas is approximately $450, which includes plane fare, the cost ofthe hotel room for the duration of the trip and the bus fare to and from Chicago O'Hare Airport. 
The group will depart Oct 16 and return Oct. 23, in time for 
[continued on page 3} 
... Force 

fcontinuedfrom page 1J 
election might breathe new life into the task force-the president-elect has spoken, a­gainst Castro and for strong defenses-but Reagan advisers say they want to know just what the task force does. 
"My inclination is to have a group like that in place ... so we don't have to wait when there are problems," said Ed Fontaine, a key Reagan adviser, now with the American Enterprise Institute. 
"The problem is it's there in Key West and the Atlantic Command is in Norfolk. You have problems with the com­mand structure...and that's why I'm reluctant to pass judgment on it." 
Fontaine added~ "Only President Reagan can make that decision after the inauguration, but I think it should be reviewed before then and the decision made on its future pretty early." 
The task force's military activities in its first year included a much-publicized Marine land­ing at the U.S. Naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and a mock battle on Vieques Island, off Puerto Rico. 
But neither impressed Cuba or other Central American and Caribbean governments, said a 
congressional  foreign  policy  
expert,  who  asked  not  to  be  
identified.  


CAMPUS PRESS 
Needs a Secretary/Layout Artist to Work 1-5 Tues./Thurs. starting after Christmas Break 
• 
Job includes order processing, poster set-up, customer relations 

• 
No experience necessary/Paid position 

• 
Must be willing to stay on for the fall semester of1982 

• 
Applications being accepted until Dec. 5 Basement, LaFo_rtune 1-5 


N.D. PARTY HEADQUARTERS 
2128 
SOUTH BEND PHONE 
AVENUE 277-3611 


~------~ 
Editorials 
Thu 
December 4, 1980 -page 5 
P.O. Box Q 
The Observer Dear Editor, Observer represents. cumulated over a number of crease only after staff members Bruce Oakley's editorial Oakley attributed much of The years. of The Obmver obtained the
1 

column of Nov. 14 rightfully Observer's immprovement to the In 1977 the paper was ap-approval ofmore than half ofthe 
grows acknowledged the improve-modernized technology which parently saved from bankruptcy student body. For the next few ments The Observer has made this the paper purchased last spring. when it raised the student sub-years, trips to cover football and year. But Oakley ignored the He does not note that the money scription rates. The Board of 'basketball games, not to men­
gradually 

cumulative effort which today's for this purchase was ac-Trustees allowed the rate in-tion important news events which affected Notre Dame and 
t======================================================= Saint Mary's were not encourag­ed. Thanks to past savings and reporters and sportswriters who paid for their own trips, today's Observer can offer better coverage of these events.Adeclaration of conscience 
Editor's note: The following article is reprinted from the Sept. 5 Observer with corrections made according to its 1980 copyright. The article was unsolicited and submitted to The Observer bv a conscientious objectors group from the New Ha1•en, Conn., area. . 
Copyright c:> 1980 Gaetano E. Milazzo 
The writing of the Declaration oflndependence, and subsequently that of 

the Constitution and the Bill of Rights, has proven to be an unparalleled 
event in the history of mankind. Those brave men who authored these 
documents were not just men of great foresight; they were also men who 
found that they could no longer accept a situation they were convinced was 
an afront to their humanity. 
For the most part, their's was not dissent for the sake of dissent, but 

dissent in conscience. Their's was an abiding example which has always 
been the foundation of the American way oflife. Among those rights we as a 
people hold most dear, among our most basic exercises of freedom, is the 
right and freedom to follow our conscience, to think and to speak freely. 
Given the reinstitution of compulsory registration and the almost certain return of the draft, we feel the need, as Americans, as men CClmmitted in conscience and faith, to dissent, not for the sake of dissent, but in conscience, and we thereby choose to register as conscientious objectors. We do so, not because we do not honor and uphold the precepts upon which this country -and our freedom to dissent in conscience -rest, but because we must answer the call of conscience and the demands of our faith. · The government has long recognized the right of American men to follow the path of conscientious objection. The Selective Service Act has established the procedure whereby an individual may legally attest to a review board composed of members of his own community. The criteria upon which judgement is passed is threefold-sincerity, commitment, and public testimony. 
The conscientious objector does not seek to avoid or escape his responsibility to his country under the law. Indeed, conscientious objectors willingly perform non-combatant military service or non-military alternative service, for the same amount of time a draftee would have spent in the military. 
Thus, the conscientious objector does not believe that he has no responsibility under the law. He acknowledges and seeks to fulfill that responsibility. The conscientious objector believes that there are clearly­defined limits to that responsibility. In effect. that responsibility is superceded by the demands of his faith .in God and the commitment to that faith that marks his life. Thus, he cannot in conscience do for his country what is prohibited by his God. 
This religious commitment is the basis of his objection to combatant service in the name of his country. Reflection upon one's faith in God is always most intimate, most private, and most deeply personal. In this way, the primacy of one's conscience proceeds and transcends those actions, laws, or commands which contradict one's faith in one's God. Thus, it is not a question of not loving one's country, but of loving one's God first and foremost. That commitment, that love, demands that one not kill -for any reason, at any time. To kill is to contradict that commitment that is the heart of the conscientious objector's life. The rule offaith remains, "By your faith you shall be known." 
Doonesbury  
(J)M/(.41}t, ABWT 'ttJ(JR 75TI­MCAVY. I {)()N'T HAV& 7V TaL YaJ I{)P.J llrlP(JlJANT IT 19 TH1fT 7Ht NAME CF THe (jfi!&.t1J HtiMSMIW 1-KlT ee /Jf?A66W 7Ht?aJGH 7Hc  1/$ H/5 1~,>01/ Wfl?e INA (JNIQ(J3 RJStnON 70 !<NaAI IF 7Hc CJIAJI?MAN f?EAUY~N Mlll<­CE/?1){/S etCE:!!EeS CF 7HC at7/PAl flBOliJlKJN, AS  

The Catholic Church, often considered least among the Christian churches to support conscientious objection, has actually taken a stand in its favor. In the Church in the Modern World, the Church Fathers wrote: 
"To obey (one's conscience) is the veiJ' dignity ofman, according to it he will be judged. Conscience is the most·4i11'tltlf oore and sanctuary ofman. There he is alone with God, whose 11oiceechoes in his depths ... conscience ret•eals that Law which isfuljilled by love of God and neighbor." 
Further, 
"Wecannotfail to praise those who renounce the use ofviolence in the 1•indication oftheir rights . .. " 
Again, we cannot stress enough the sincerity with which we declare ourselves conscientious objectors. We are Americans and we love our country, but love of country stands sharply and clearly delineated by our commitment to our faith. 
In the depths of our conscience we find no absolution should we take the life of another. It is notthis war, oi'a war, or the war so sure to come-it is all war, all killing. Men of peace cannot be men of war. Men of peace are men of love. A man who loves, in and through Christ, is more willing to be killed than to kill. We who so live our lives cannot kill for this or any other country. 
We are aware of the potential consequences of our actions. We are prepared to bear them; and even if we pay with our lives, we will not and cannot forsake our faith. We do not seek to abdicate our responsibility. We love our country, but we love our God more. By this commitment we attempt to live our lives-regardless of how utopian or idealistic it might seem. Conscientious objection is not an ideology, it is a way of life. 
We realize that conscientious objection is idealistic and not consistent with the political realism of this or any era. It is, we think, nonetheless necessary for us and those who share our beliefs to take a stand -a stand which looks toward the future, toward the world as it ought to be and is not yet. 
We ask, therefore, for, your understanding. We ask for your love. This is not a decision easily made, a choice made with half a heart. We are men of deep faith, and yes, dreamers of a great dream. We call all people to share in the peace of Christ ant! in our dream, in hope and love, in heart and conscience, that we may learn to live in peace. If war is to end, if no man is to shed his blood in battle, if we are finally to erase the blackened image of Auschwitz and Dachau, we must finally learn to love and trust. This is our 
faith and our life, to this end we remain,  
---~  Gaetano E. Milazzo Peter J. CuO'!fo Peter Neagle Robert J. Barone Michael S. Fitzgerald Ronald N. Paolillo  

Mark Rust notes in Inside Friday(Nov.14) that The Observer is ND's school of journalism. Each class benefits from both the progress and mistakes of the past. While 24 pages is still a small newspaper, it is six times the size of the first Observer and 
twice  as  large  as  the  1975  
editions.  Each  year  has  seen  
changes,  and  not  everyone  

agrees that the changes have made the paper better. Several ex-staffers disagreed with the format change in 1979; and some, undoubtedly, dislike the very examples of improvement which Oakley cites. 
Oakley might not have said The Observer was on the verge of excellence last year, or the years before that, but then Oakley does not admit that The Observer has seen several stag~s of modernization and technologic­al improvement. He does not know what the first editorial board envisioned in 1965 when they had less precedent-and certainly less money -than the present staff. And he ignores the fact that plans for the present Observer system began over two y~rs ago. 
Oakley might have laughed at past editions ofThe Observer, but I hope he realizes someone is lapghing at his work, too. For, in spite of Oakley's satisfaction, someone sees a great deal of room for improvement. And I hope that person gets the chance to try his ideas to continue to improve the newspaper which represents the efforts ofso many students over the past 15 years. 
Rosemary Mtlls 

Vfl!ll!tor's note: 
Rosemary Mtlls is aformer editor-in­
chiefof The Observer. 
RightonTim 

Dear Editor, 
Being pressed just prior to Thanksgiving break, I was un· able to comment appropriately on the fine wit and cynicism (it
Ml/0.. HIS IAI!ft I 

I 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the srudents of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's C<?llege. It does not ~ecessanly reflect the policies of the administration of either in~muuon. The-news ·~ r_eponed as accurately and as objectively as possible_. Edito_n~Js represent the optmon _of a majority of the Editorial Board. _Comn:tentanes, opm10ns, and letters are the vtews of their authors. Column S(>ace IS available to all members of the c~mmuntty. and the free expression of varytng opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged. 
.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Garry Trudeau 
1/H-HJH. MJ.L, 'tW I KNOIA/ 
!rJ.W, ~ '!WMMN, Yat 010. 71-E Cf4.TlJ?.4/._ ReV­IAIITH THe ?HAT'S lAilY auT/ON /VAS !iafE-GANGCF /AI& '/?E. HAV­
7HING a= AN 08-FOUR. ING THIS SCSSKJN MTH MAO.• I avrr. 
was all too clear) in Tim Sullivan's "Coping with Notre Dame and the 'Real World"' (Noveber 19). I look forward to a future full of such valuable in­sights and cogent arguments as Tim is obviously able to provide us. Right on, Tim! See you on the second floor! 
james Dwyer 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief............ Paul Mullaney SMC News Editor .......... Mary Leavitt Managing Editor ..... , ........ Mark Rust 
Sports Editor ............. Beth Huffman Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Editorials Editor........... Mike Onufrak 
fhvto Editor................ .john Macor
Senior Copy Editor ... Mary Fran Callahan 
Businm Manager ........... Greg Hedges 
Executive Nt!Ws Editor ..... Tom Jackman 
Controller .................,... .Jim Rudd News Editor ............... Pam Degnan 
Advertising Manager ........... Mark Ellis News Editor. ............... Lynne Daley Circulation Manager . ....... Beth Hackett SMC_Executive Editor...... Margie Brassil Production Manager .. ......John McGrath 
Features 

Thursday, December 4, 1980 -page 6 
Best and worst of 1980 
When everyone has forgotten how and why certain performers and records made it big in 19BO, they will still remember who and what made 1980 the year that it was. That is the purpose of this year-end review. 
Below are listed those singles and albums which, in the opinion of this reviewer, were the ten best and ten worst of 19BO. Before I do that, some warnings must be given. First, singles are restricted to those that made the top 40 because of the large number to choose from. Second, this list is strictly mine and should not be construed to reflect the opinions ofother members ofthe Observer staff, or ofthe paper as a whole. So here goes: 
The Top Ten Singles of 1980: 
1. 
"Tired of Toein' the Line" by Rocky Burnette-should go down as a classic rock song. It stuck out like a sore thumb among the overblown drivel which dominated the airwaves last summer. Burnette called his LP The Son ofRock andRoll because he is the son ofJohnny Burnette, who did the original version of "You're Sixteen" twenty years ago. Rocky will have a hard time topping this, his first hit. 

2. 
"Call Me" by Blondie -a successful merger of the biggest in New Wave, (Deborah Harry) and the biggest in disco, (Giorgio Moroder). Will probably be the number one song of the year on the Billboard charts. 

3. 
"Crazy Little Thing Called Love" by Queen-the first time I heard this, I swore it was Elvis. It was recorded to capitalize on a rockabilly revival in Britain which somehow never caught on here. Perhaps that's why this song seems so fresh and exciting. 

4. 
"Refugee" by Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers-Rolling Stone called this one of the best singles of 1979 when it had only been released as such in late December of that year. One of my favorite lyrics of the year. ,c, 

5. 
"Don'tDoMeLikeThat"byTom Petty and the Heartbreakers-­another of Petty's record-industry-be­damned songs which happens to apply to boy-girl relationships as well. 

6. 
"We Live for Love" by Pat Benatar-this song soared above most others last summer. Her high voice in the refrain gets me every time. Another classic rock song. 

7. 
"Hungry Heart" by Bruce 1 Springsteen-or, Bruce Swallows Helium. I'd never heard his voice any higher than a struggling moan before. Easily his most commercial song ever, one which sounds like it could have been written in the Fifties. 


B. "Fool in the Rain" by Led Zeppelin -the only reason why this wasn't a massively huge hit is because of its length. 
9. 
"Theme from 'New York, New York"' by Frank Sinatra-his first big hit in eleven years. Sinatra's voice is better than it has been in years. His version of"Just the Way You Are" is better than Billy Joel's. 

10. 
"Funkytown" by Lipps, Inc. (pronounced lip-sync) -probably the last gasp for synthesizer-laden disco, or "E uro-disco" as it is known. One ofthe ten best disco records ever released. Like most disco, the lyrical content is nonexistent, but the beat is incredibly infectious. 


The Top Ten Albums of 19BO: 

' 
3. 
HoldOutbyJacksonBrowne-he recently remarried, and this album basically describes the events and traumas leading up to that. His first studio album to yield more than one Top 40 hit. 

4. 
In the Heat ofthe Night by Pat Benatar-the best first album by any artist since Dire Straits. 


5. Empty Glass by PeteTownshend­
this could have beena Who album but it didn't turn out that way. It yielded the first TopTen single by The Who or a member thereof since "I Can See for Miles" in 1967. Better than most Who albums of the past decade. 
6. Pretenders by the Pretenders -a solid New Wave record, with many good songs and a couple ofgreat ones. Excellent debut. 
7. Crimes ofPassion by Pat Benatar­
more consistent than her first LP but without a truly standout song, which is why it is below her debut. 
8. 
Anytime Anyplace Anywhere by Rossington Collins Band-or, Lynyrd Skynyrd Rises from the Ashes. Judith Krantz helps make this group more than just theNew Lynyrd Skynyrd; she makes them something completely different. 

9. 
The Wall by Pink Floyd-this is a great, but incredibly depressing, album, and that's why it is "only" number nine. 

10. 
The River by Bruce Springsteen-the first album of his that didn't give me an overwhelming desire to attack the system on which it was playing and smash the record to smithereens. There are actually enough good songs on here to justify its existence. 


The Bottom Ten Singles of 1980: 
1. "In America" by the Charlie Daniels Band-it sounds like a campaign song to re-elect Jimmy Carter, which was not what we needed this summer. It also gains Bottom Ten points by mentioning the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
2. "All Night Long" by Joe Walsh­
has one of the most irritating intros I've ever heard. The rest of the song then combines all of the worst elements of "Rocky Mountain Way" and "Life's Been Good." I am still trying to figure out whatJoe Walsh has to do with country music (this song was on the Urban Cowboy soundtrack). 
3. 
"Don't Let Go" by Isa.a.'c Hayes­why did he have to begin making records again? He absolutely ruined a great oldie (Roy Hamilton in 195B}. 

4. 
"Jojo" by Boz Scaggs-one ofhis worst, which isn't easy because Scaggs has put out many a bad record in his career. 

5. 
"Little Jeannie" by EltonJohn­so syrupy-sweet that you could pour it over pancakes. IfI had known he'd put out records like this, I'd have prayed that he stay disco. 

6. 
"EvenltUp"byHeart-from the band that used to be one of the better rock groups. Now they add horns and a new guitarist, and-presto! -onto the Bottom Ten they go. 

7. 
"Gimme Some Lovin"' by the Blues Brothers-they did a passable job on "Soul Man" and "Rubber Biscuit," but this remake is so muddy I sank up to my armpits in it. 


B. "Steal Away" by Robbie Dupree-just what we needed, a done it straight? 
10. "Heart Hotels" by Dan Fogelberg-so bland that ifit could be eaten itwould probably be served in the dining halls. 
The Bottom Ten, Albums of 1980: 
1. Can't Stop the Music Soundtrack by the Village People-need I say more? A rather obscure record by a group 
' finally achieving the obscurity it deserves. 
2. McCartney II by Paul McCartney­he proved ten years ago that he could put out an album by the McCartney One Man Band He shouldn't have tried again. There isn't a good song to be found; the good version of"Coming Up" is the live one recorded with Wihgs. 
3 .... butthe little girls understand by The Knack-I could have sworn I bought this album with a different cover and 
title ... Get the Knack. 

4. 
No Nukes by MUSE (Musicians United for Safe Energy)-this three record set has more propaganda than an issue ofPravda, and only about a side anda-halfofgoodmusic. ChakaKhan's opinion ofnuclear power holds a lot of weight. 

5. 
Bebe LeStrange by Heart-the last word of the title of this album describes it perfectly. There isn't a good song to be found on it. 

6. 
Women and Children First by Van Halen-at least Aerosmith recorded one ballad ("Dream On"). Their vocal gimmickry (i.e. those high-pitched screams which are in every one ofthejr songs) is so annoying as to render this album hopeless. 


7. Saved by Bob Dylan-hallelujah! 
Dylan is born again for one album too many. 
8. 
Panorama by the Cars-they used to be one of the premier New Wave bands. Now they are one of the premier New Wave blands. 

9. 
Middle man by Boz Scaggs-his first bad album since Down Two Then Left. (It is also his only album since Down Two Then Left.) 

10. 
Scream Dream by Ted Nugent­why can't he do the civilized world a favor and hang up his rock and roll shoes? 


Here are a few other assorted awards which should be given out: Best Newcomer:Pat Benatar-very little contest here. 
Best LP cover: Tie benyeenDrama by Yes-ifonly their music would match the quality of their covers-and London Calling by the Clash -it could have been the cover of an early Who album. 
Worst LP cover.Cultosaurus Erectus bv Blue Oyster Cult-the dinosaur head is one of the ugliest covers I've ever seen. 
Resurrection of the Year:The 
Doors-nonexistent for eight years, 
their music gained acceptance by a 
whole new audience, thanks to a 
biography ofJim Morrison and the 
subsequent attention given their 
music by FM radio. 
Best single which didn't make the top 40:"1 Don't Like Mondays" by the Boomtown Rats-I can't figure out why it missed • 
Best Album Title:/'m Not Strange, I just Like You by Keith Sykes 
Tim Neely 

Music quiz IX 
I have already announced the winner from the last quiz, so I need notgo into that. Therefore, I will plunge right into the last quiz of 1980. If you feel you have a decent percentage of these correct, you may submit your answers to the Observer office; if you have more right than anyone else, you will win $10. Your entry must be in by 5 p.m. tomorrow in order to be considered The answers will appear, along with the name of the winner, in Monday's 
Observer. 

This week, ten various rock and pop personalities describe themselves. They all want to know, "Who am I?" 
1. 
I wrote the soundtrack for a thankfully forgotten movie called The Family Way. Much later I wrote the theme song for a James Bond movie. Critics always get down on me but the record-buying public doesn't. 

2. 
I was the leader ofthe Move, and I co-founded the Electric Light Orchestra. After only one album with ELO, I left to found my own group. I'm fairly obscure in America, but I've had some big hits in Britain. 

3. 
When I was younger I was called "the British Elvis Presley." I released my first record in 1957, but it wasn't until1976 that I made the Top Ten in America for the first time. Very few of my records have made the American 


6. I was the oldest person ever to put a single into the American Top 40. I achieved that in 1974. I'm Canadian. 
7. I was a member of the Poppy 
........ Family and had a number one record in 1974 as a solo artist. 
8. 
I wrote two big hit songs in the mid-sixties-"Popsicles and Icicles" by the Murmaids, and "Baby, the Rain Must Fall" by Glenn Yarbrough. I'm better known as the lead singer for one ofthe most popular groups ofthe early seventies. 

9. 
I recorded several songs in an Elvis Presley-like voice in the early sixties. I didn't use my real name; I used the name of Elvis' character in the movie 


jailhouse Rock. (You don't need my real name, only my stage name.) 
10. A Mouseketeer in the fifties, I went on to have such hits as "Cindy's Birthday" and "Your Nose Is Gonna Grow." 
Tim Neely 

Smokey Joe performs 
Smokyjoe, recording artist and South and the Heartbreakers-there isn't a clones Doobie Brothers songs. Sing 4. After I left one of the most Bend native, returns December 6 for a 
1. Damn the Torpedoes by Tom Petty Doobie Brothers clone who even Top 40. 
solo concert in theWest Branch ofthebad song on the entire album. One of the words to"Whata Fool Believes" to influential rock bands in history, I South Bend Library. Featured will bethe best rock records I've ever heard. I the music of this; it fits perfectly. formed a group which featured Rod some new songs and selections from wish I had heard his prior two albums 9. "I Don't Want to Walk Without Stewart on lead vocals. 
his last album in his acoustic, folk-rock when they first came out. So do many You" by Barry Manilow-or, How to 5. I was originally the sixth Rolling guitar style. 
other people. Ruin a Great Standard. This song Stone, but constant touring got to me The concert is free and will begin at
2. One-Trick Pony by Paul Simon­features all the trademarks of Banal • and I left in 1964. Although not an 2:30p.m. The library is located at4616his first new album in five years, and Barry: a short intro, a sudden fade, and official member, I have played on Western Avenue. Notre Dame/Saintworth the wait. He remains one ofthe the ever-present key change at the end almost every Stones album and oc­Mary's students are welcome and premier songwriters in the business. of the song. Why couldn't he have cassionally appear on stage with them. 
urged to attend 

----------~---------·~ --------~--------------­

r ~''"'·"··
·.
.• ·i '. ~ :\1

Features 

December 4, 1980 -page 7 
The ballad of John and Yoko 
group of New York musical pros who back Lennon are also the same people who provide the melody for Y oko. 
·i\nd they are as uncompromisingly smooth for her as they are for him. In the end though, their efforts are wasted. Yoko is simply too bizarre not only for the uninitiated child of the Since the release of ex-Beatie John eighties, but also for the hard-core Lennon's Shaved Fish compilation Lennon-Beatles fanatic of the past.
album, John and his wife Yoko have John may acknowledge her as his lived in obscurity avoiding the press, artistic and intellectual superior, but the public, and the recording studio. 
. the record-buying public (even in the John, of course, has finally been 
age of new wave) is not yet ready for granted American citizenship and he 
Yoko Ono. 
has spent most ofhis time visiting with So if you are like me you took the 
his children, investing in cattle futures, needle off the vinyl during "Kiss Kiss and buying up most of the higher Kiss" and began to skip around to the priced condominiums in New York's tunes which Lennon sings. Each of 
Dakota apartment complex. these is musically tight, lyrically sound 
Until this month, that is. Double (though few chances are taken), and Fantasy is the latest offering from John ultimately only pleasant. Not what I and Yoko and it is definitely co-­was hoping for, but what I will credited The album contains fourteen begrudingly tolerate from the man I tracks, seven written by John, seven by consider to have been the rock Yoko. musician of his generation. 
Ifthere is a tune that stands out here In the past, Lennon has done. his best 
it is "Watching the Wheels" which is to separate his work from Yoko's by bright of beat and probably the most 
giving her a side or even a separate lyrically complicated. It is quitealbum. But no more. Each Lennon obviously a reply to Lennon's critics composition on Double Fantasy is who castigated him for his five year conveniently wedged between two hiatus from the public eye: I'm just Ono songs. In other words, unless you sitting here watching the wheels go roundand usually skip every other track when formed by a stellar group ofNew York groans and repitious orgasmic fits. round, I really love to watch them rol~ No you listen to an album side you will be session men, is reminiscent of Replete with heavy breathing, longer rtding on the merry-~round, I just exposed to both Lennon and Ono Lennon's best work from Rock and Roll moaning that puts Britt Ekland( ofRod hadto let itgo. The bottom line is Lennon is his whether you like it .or not. and the title and lyrics speak for Stewart's "Tonight's the Night" fame) own man as he always has bem. He's into his 
So let's pretend you are going to themselves. Like almost all of to shame, and cheetah-like squealing, own "trip" which includes Yoko, his cows, life listen to this album for the first time. Lennon's non-political songs written this tune will definitely grab you. Odds in New York andseclustion. Though hisfans The first track on side one is the Top in the last ten years, the tune is are it will also repulse you. might prefer the man who spmt his time Forty single "Oust Like) Starting addressed lo Y oko: But whm I see you But, as was mentioned, this cut is the "looking through a glass onwn... trying to Over." This is one of the best singles I darlt'ng, It's like we both are falling in love exception for Ono on Double Fantasy. make a dove-tailjoint... " Lmnon is content to have heard this year and almost again, It'll be just like starting over­After twelve years of dedication to the be theJ D. Salinger of rock 'n' roll and everybody loves it except Lennon starting over. avant garde and the melodic effect of "watch the wheels." One can only hope that, fanatics who were hoping for the Ifit is true that all ofJohn's non­distasteful noise, Yoko sings her com­unlike Saliitger, he will evmtually venture lyrical intensity ofAbbey Road's "Come political songs are intended for Yoko, positions straight The result is forth from his refuge and grace us with his Together" and the vocal urgency of then the same holds for Ono's tunes. definitely unexceptional (similar to a musings from time to time. Musings are the same album's "I Want You." To This is especially true of the second Deborah Harry or PatBenatar without apparentlyall one can hopeforfrom a rock 'n' these fanatics (among whom I usually selection from side one "Kiss, Kiss, benefit of sexual appeal or growl) and. roller, no matter that he was once the best. number myself), I say: "Keep in mind Kiss" written by Yoko Ono: Kiss, kiss, occasionally comical when one Michael Onufrak is editorials edttor of the sixties are over and so are the kiss, kiss, me love, just one kiss, kiss will do. bothers to read the less-than-con­The Observer. Beatles. As the times have changed, so That's both the opening and closing ventional lyrics. Side two's "I'm Your has the music, and so has the man. In refrain and is an excellent example of Angel" is a pertinent example: We He bought his first Beatles album at fact, he's forty years old." · the depth ofYoko's lyrical style. ~'Kiss, believe in pumpkins that, Turn into al$e eleven and has not missed on 
Forty is an age when many men feel Kiss, Kiss" stands out on this album princesses, Andfrogs that tum into princes, SJnce. nostalgic and at the same time not only because it is the first Ono­We believein moons thatsmt1e on us, Whm we optimistic ("Life begins at forty," and penned tune one is accosted by, but hurry home before the mtdnight strikes, Ira Ia 
Michael Onufrak 
all that). That is exactly what Lennon is also because it is the only one which Ia Ia. 
saying here. The beat, cleanly per-contains the formerly obligatory Ono The irony here is that the same 
Hotter Thanjuly doesn't mark a album. The pace never lets up until the the cold, cold earth while only "a half a milestone in Stevie Wonder's career, second to last track, "Lately", a melody mile from heaven" is overshadowed by merely another masterpiece. Relying which shows the kid from Motown as the awareness that he can sing about it. on the recurrent themes ofpeace, love, an experienced and mature writer. Through all the perfectly tuned unity and the universality ofmusic and Backed by only a bass and piano, he electric drums, synthesizers and God, Wonder writes, arranges, sings, proves that very often less is more. background vocals it becomes ap­performs and produces ten songs that Such aesthetic economy is contrasted parent that the best instrument on the illustrate the fulfilled potential of to his polyrhythmic craftwork in "Do album is Wonder's voice. His vocal disco. Like You", a, funked up tune that diversity in such songs as "I Ain't 
I Employing no less than 31 musicians resembles the Talking Heads at their Gonna Stand For It" make every song and singers (including Michael musical best. Background vocals interesting and the near perfect timing Jackson), and playing no fewer than 15 sound like Chaka Khan played at 45 adds a sense of awesomeness to his 
different instruments Wonder shows speed and the story line of Keita the critically acclaimed musical talent. It is that his melodic prowess and musical dancer is as lively as the melody. just this perfection that may be the 
diversity are surpassed only by his The single release, "Master Blaster albums only flaw, a possible reflection mastery of the human voice. Hotter Oammin')", fuses reggae and disco ina of the music industry's strategy of Than July is carried along well by the celebration of Zimbabwe, Jab, and getting it just right on the vinyl. There rhythm section of Nathan Watts and Marley "hot on the box." "Happy is not much room for the spontaneous 
Dennis Davis, however the various Birthday", a pure pop disco anthem to jamming in such songs as "Isn't She beats are not defined by them so much Martin Luther King is by far the Lovely" off the Songs in the Key of Life as they are by Wonder's natural, i liveliest cut on the album. Referring to album. almost transcendental sense of timing. an issue very close to Stevie, it calls for Hotter Than july is just one in a series The explicitly stated disco beat, a beat a national holiday on King's birthday of epics from Stevie. He may rank as more or less implied in earlier albums, and a"World party on the day he came Other casual highlights include the the best thing to come out of Detroit 
may serve to increase Wonder's to be." Ifthat party ever goes down you harmonica solo in "As ifYou Read My since the automobile, but given the following, if that's possible. can be sure they will play tunes like Mind" and the string arrangement in price ofgas, fd take a Stevie Wonder 
1 In the opening cut, "Did I Hear You this. Even if the political overtones "Rocket Love", an ominous tale of album. Say You Love Me" Wonder sets the were stripped away the music would expectations gone sour. The fact that 
. pace for an upbeat, almost ecstatic stand tall on its own technical merit · his "rocket lover" sent him crashing to Gene Zychowicz 

... 
Ihe~====================================== 
T0 da~=·:::::===========T=h=ur=s=d=ay='=D=e=c=e=m=b=e=r=4=,=19=8=0=-=p=a=g=e=S 
Campus 
•4:30-6:30 
p.m. christmas rose sale in dining halls, sponsoredby alpha phi omega. 

• 
6 p.m. junior parents weekend room lot­tery, Iafortune rathskeller. 


• 6: 30 p.m. -madrigal dinners, regina north lounge. . 
• 7,9& 11 p.rri. -film: "when a stranger calls," engineering auditorium. 
• 
7:30 p.m. film: "aguirre, wrath of god," lib. aud. 

• 
8 p.m. -basketball: nd vs. texas christian university, ace. 

• 
9 p.m. -nazz: open stage. 

• 
10 p.m. -nazz: nd jazz band. 


SMCstudent wins TV 
Jody Bertino of Holy Cross Hall (SMC) is the winner of the 12-inch color TV-the prize given for selling the most Mardi Gras raffle tickets. 
At the end of the first hall campaign, the three top place winners are: (1) Regina Hall, (2) Walsh Hall, and (3) Holy Cross Hall (SMC). The second hall campaign will be continue until Dec. 14. 
.. . Meyers 
(continued from page 1 0} 
"Brian and I had confidence from the first day in practices iri the abilities of the line, it was ~ question of how the linemen would respond to the pressures." 
When one is under the tut­elage ofMeyers though, the best can come out of a player. "In practices they are put under more pressure in tougher situ­ations than they'll ever see in games," he ~mphasizes. "By game time though they're ready for anything." 
Coaching may have come as an accident for Bill Meyers, but it's no accident that he has helped make Notre Dame's youthful offensive line one of the finest in the nation. 
Molarity 
Michael Molinelli 


Peanuts 


WE ALL ~AVE TO DEAL 
WIT~ TI4E LAW FROM 
THE VERI( DAV WE'RE 80RN 
-. ­
..::>• -­

The-Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 

ACROSS 30 Marsh bird 1 Sealed 31 Zoo attrac· 5 Stinging tion 
remark 34 Protozoan 9 Have influ· 36 Verifies· 
ence over tion 13 Facility 37 Lift 14 Donkey, in 39 Musical 
Germany group 15 Diminish 40 Warn 16 -beam 41 Not care­17 Aleutian (beuncon· 
island cerned) 18 Confused 43 Athlete's 19 Transforms hurling 21 Sculls pieces 23 Paving 44 Walkway 
material for Plato 24 Golf peg 45 Decrepit 25 Credit horses 28 Author 48 Agreed 
Bombeck with 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

Charles M. Schulz 
JUST LAST WEEK I SUED A BAB'r' ~ 
Scoop
' ' ' 
(continued from page 12} 
probation by the Pacific-10 Conference? Maybe you could ask USC head coach John Robinson what convinced him that his football team will turn white if his players are required to ~cure 800 on the college board exams. 
If you're looking for the pettiness and insecurity that you so often accuse Dan Devine of, 
· talk to Chuck Fairbanks. His outlandish spending (he won't wear a coaching shirt more than twice) on the Colorado football program has helped bankrupt several non-revenue sports at the school. 
In two words, Old Scoop, grow up. 
Sincerely, Craig Cbval 


TONIGHT: 
$300 Guys $200 Girls 

ALL YOU CAN DRINK at LEE'S 

21 10 required 

51 Depression initials 
52 Historic time 54 Festive 55 Onewith 
obligations 57 Talk affec· tedly 59 Sicilian volcano 61 Yule visitor 62 Division word 
63 Leases 
64 Pulled the trigger 65 Old 66 Neb.'s neighbor 
67 Preminger 
DOWN 1 Marine hunter 
2 Well-known saw 3 Certain plaintiff 
4.•~otta 
5 Arthurof "P4aude" 6 Oregon port 7 Sell to the consumer 8 Book-jacket rave 9 Health spot 
10 Well·known 
saw 11 locality 12 Four 
seasons 16 Tardy 20 Infection, 
for short 22 "The Last-" 26 Check 27 Wild horse 
of Asia 29 Fine 32 Forest 
creature 33 Astern 35 Excursion 37 Small boy 38-Baba 39 Rise 41 Homeof 
the Braves 42-Canals 44 Like some 
peanuts 46 Cave 47 Poet 
Teasdale 49 Oriental weights 50 Bas-relief.-. 
substanc1r 52 Essayist 53 Boxer's 
milieu 
56 Thailand coin 58 Place for peas 
60 Invite 

Wilson Bryan Key 
"Subliminal Seduction in Advertising" Monday, Dec. 8, 8 p.m. 
Library Auditorium 
Free Admission Sponsored by Student Union Academic Commission 

The Observer Thursday, December 4, 1980 -page 9 


Pre USC 
LAalums sponsor activities 
TheNotre Dame Alumni Club of Los Angeles has announced a number of activities open to students and alumni journeying west to California for the Trojan­Fighting Irish football game. 
Roger 0. Valdiserri will be the guest speaker today at the monthly meeting of the Club. Valdiserri, who is the assistant athletic director and sports information director at Notre Dame, will speak at a luncheon to be held at Little Joe's Restaurant, 900 N. Broadway in Chinatown. Cocktails will begin at 11: 30 and the cost of the luncheon is $9 per person. Those interested should note the activity has limited reservations and attendance will be based on a first-come, first-serve basis. 
Tomorrow there will be a Victory Rally on the second floor of the Los Angeles Convention Center, 1201 S. Figueroa. The rally will begin at 5:30p.m. with a hospitality bar, and the evening will include dancing and enter­tainment. At 7:30 p.m. Moose Krause, the retiring athletic director of Notre Dame, will address the gathering. Also expected to attend the rally are the Irish football team, coaching staff and cheerleaders. Admis­sion for this event is $5.50. 
Hill Panzica, a junior from USC, is in charge ofdecorations for the rally and urges any students or alumni interested in helping him to call 213-764-4664. 
The Club will sponsor a Booster Party at 10 a.m. Saturday at the California Air and Space 
Museum. Admission is free for I Communion Breakfast at the the party. Sheraton Universal Hotel in the main ballroom. Mass will begin at
After the game the Club will 

9 a.m., and breakfast will follow 
host a post game party at the 

the Celebration. Breakfast will
Museum. Admission is free, and 

cost.$9.50 per person. Coaches
the party will begin immediately 

and players of the Notre Dame
after the game. 

football team will be seated at Sunday morning there will be a each table during the meal. 
...leers 
Illinois-Chicago Circle to start
[continuedfrom page 12} 

what the Irish hope will be a 
feel good." With the infamous 

different type of streak, as they
streak behind them, Notre 

attempt to put themselves back 
Dame will be on the now-friendly 

into the race for home ice in the 
ACC ice this weekend against 

WCHA playoffs. 
'I' .Help others while· you help YOURSELF... ~ to a wide selection of hand crafted articles '"from the THIRD WORLD 
Notre Dame/Saint Marys Theatre Presents 
A Readers' Theatre Production 
.I KNOCK AT THE DOOR 
by Sean O'Casey 
8 pm, December 5, 6 & 7 Washington Hall $3 General Admission ND/SMC Students, Faculty& Staff $2.50 
Call 284-4176 for Reservations,.and Information 
The Observer 

Thursday, December 4, 1980-page 10 
Coaching career pleases Meyers 
Huffman to injury at the be­Michigan squad the following By Louie Somogyi ginning of the season may have year. After graduation, it was on Sports Wrtter caused even the most arden of to the Dallas Cowboys. Irishmen to squirm at the "I was there for all of six 
Meet Bill Meyers, one-third of prospects of this year's young weeks," Meyers now says with a the ingredients that have made and inexperienced offensive line. smile, "but as I look back on the Notre Dame's offensive line one cut I see that it is something that 
of the outstaning success stories And maybe it seemed Meyers turned out right for me. A coach of college football 1980 (along might have had a much easier there took me out to lunch with the linemen and Brian time with his original desires of afterwards, and we got to talking Boulac, the other two-thirds). fighting for justice within court­about a graduate assistant1 
If losing all-American Tim rooms. Instead he chose to fight position for Mike White at Foley and Rob Martinovich the unjustness of pre-season California. I took the job, and along with Ted Horansky and prognosticiations that the found that I really enjoyed it." 
_ Bill Meyers John Leon to· graduation wasn't offensive line may be the weakest Likewise the people within
I in a hurry? i 

unit for the 1980 Irish football California began enjoying his American candidate Tim 
bad enough, then losing all-­
edition. coaching as he moved on to
1100-llxl7 postersl 

"I was going to law school," Santa Clara for three years before recalls the 1972 Stanford gradu­returning to Cal as an offensive
I · only$10.00 I -----------------,I 
I ate. "I had no aspirations what­line coach in 1977.I .,. I soever of becoming a football It wasn't until Notre Dame coach." assistant Merv Johnson set out
I . 03 N. Mainl I Saturday I 
I But a successful playing career for Oklahoma two years ago that
·8 . I 

can always give a former player Meyers' real dream came true.1 South Bend 1 I I an itch to get back on the "I've always wanted to be at I I gridiron and teach the sport he Notre Dame," he admits, "to be I 289-6977 I I I loves. Long Beach-City College is a part of her traditions and the 
not exactly a hotbed for football, commitment to excellence thatI the wiz of the I I Pizza Special I but it was the beginning for represents her. Notre Dame Meyers as he earned all-America represents what college is allI I junior college honors. The more about-be it athletics, aca­
;_P!T~-9-~~--~ I I 
notable fame came in the 1970 demics, spirit or tradition." 
and '71 seasons at Stanford And it's not the battles on theI During the game! ! ! 1 where, as a two-year starter, he gridiron alone that Meyers re­Biloxi Hilton's became an all-coast lineman and members in his two years ofI I played on the Jim Plunkett-led affiliation at the University. "The Rose Bowl squads that shellack­greatest thing about Notre
I I 
ed Woody Hayes' unbeaten Dame is the people," says Meyers 
Buckeyes and an undefeated with total sincerity. "There is a special oneness and family at­
'----------------~ 
titude between everyone here­
be they the players, student body or anyone that is associated within. 
"I enjoy coaching more than I did playing," he adds. "Coaching is a never-ending learning pros­
1'\NoDcws 
OneNight 
pect. You feel success and failure more as a coach. It's a challenge
$43.25* 
to transpire your thoughts to the other person on what and how
If you're Sugar Bowl 
you want something done, and 
bound. you're bound 
then see to it that he does it." 
And if such difficulties occur, only then does the real job of 
to love our special 
Sugar Bowl package: 
·. coaching begin. It is here also 
that the coach has to know
•A beautiful deluxe room 
whether or not to be under­
with a view of the Gulf or 
standing with a player or to give
our tropical pool. 


tickets? 
them the chewing out which can
•A bottle of champagne 
reduce one's hat size by a couple
when you arrive. 
of inches. 
•Prime Rib or Seafood a Ia 
"I'm a teacher," stresses 
Hilton in the elegant Rib 
Meyers, "and as a teacher, my
Royal 
phil(JS())phy is to be consistent in

WeVegot 
letting the players know when
•After dinner, dance the 
they're doing something right or wrong. There are two sides to 
night away in the Le Chic 
Lounge We'll party 1111 
that though. If they put forth the
dawn New Year's Eve. 

your rooms. 
::: 
effort but lack something in
•The next morning, we'll 
technique, then I work with 
treat you to a contmental 
them-which is what coaching
breakfast 1n bed. including 
is all about.

If you're lucky enough arm and a leg.
a famous ""Hilton Hammer" 
"But if I see that they're not

to have Sugar Bowl We've got twenty-six ~, 
putting effort into their assign­
You'll love the Biloxi 

tickets but can't find a miles of sugar white : : : 
ments, yes, they'll hear from me
Hilton, so if you want 
alright."

room in New Orleans, beaches. Fresh seafood. .. , . 
Playing on the offensive line as 
to stay over for the 

stop worrying. We've got Championship golf 
·====•. :. Meyers says is the most difficult
weekend, we under­

plenty of rooms on the courses. And New Year' •: · ::. position, yet the system at Notre
stand. Extra nights 
Dame employed by Meyers and 
are o.1ly $21.50 per 

Mississippi Gulf Coast. Eve parties that last till > 
Boulac make it even more 
person, room only. 
difficult for the linemen.

We're only sixty miles dawn. 
"We believe that the offensive
"Based or per persor· dout.f' OCClJOancy 

from New Orleans -a So combine your ,
Taxes ani1 gratUities not 1ncluded A 
' · · line is a single person unit, not 

straight shot into the Sugar Bowl holiday with •: 
five persons in just one unit. Our
Requ1ar ·oom ·ates $50 Slf1Qie $56 .~ouble 
linemen have to not only know their assignement for a play, but

Superdome on New a vacation on the ' · 
Year's Day. And a room Mississippi Gulf Coast. ~ : 
to know the assignment of the 

here won't cost you an We're warming up a :• ::. other players so they can learn ·how we want the play to succeed
welcome just for you. ·· ' 
overall. You must learn what the system is not just play it." Thus, to the offensive lineman 

Mississippi 
is given another form of aca­

... 
demic background that creates a 

GullCOaSt 
more challenging and more in­
W Beach Blvd /BilOXI. MS 39531/(601) 388-7000 

Pass Christian-Long Beach ·GulfPort; BiloXi · 
P.O. Box 4554 Biloxi. Mississippi 39531 teresting system of playing. For reservations and "It relieves any L.)redom from 
information, call toll free: them," explains Meyers. Indiana Hilton Reservation 
(continued on page 8}
Service 1-800-543-7222 






Used and Oul-ai-Pftnl books bought, sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS, 1027 E. Wayne, 232-8444. 12-6 p.m.• cloaed Mondays. ND/SMC PHOTOGRAPHERS: I need  4th floor lor security. Close to both campuses. Call233-2631. COUNTRY HOUSE FOR RENT TEN MINUTES TO CAMPUS 2773604 2880955 ------------------­ YOU, SHARE EXPENSES, elc.l Call Brad at 1417 RIDE WANTED FOR XMAS BREAK GOING TO WASHINGTON-ORE.· IDAHO VICINITY. CALL GREG 1153  'LEASE CALL SHIRLEY AT8661' ;a,Q.,Jl.l~.Wi/;QJlJ;.~.eM.........: Studenl B boll season ticket. Cheap Call 217-7701 FOR SALE-lWO I.U. 8-ball student  replace zippers, buttons, pockets, etc. Quality work, reasonable rates, University Park Mall area. All garments must be laundered llrsl. Call between 6:00 & 10:00 PM. 277­3085  more than I con say. HAPPY BIRTHDAY BETH H FINALLY, WE'RE BOTH LEGALII BE WILD AND ROWDY, SO WATCH SOUTH BEND.  
OVERSEAS JOBS • Summer/year round. Europe, S.Amer., Australia, Alia. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightseeing. Free Into. Write: IJC, Box 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar. Ca.  lWO FURNISHED HOUSES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR COUPLE BLOCKS TO CAMPUS 2773604 2880955 grad:law student. share sabbatical homewith student. close to campus twa fireplaces carpeted very nice.  Need riders to Portland, Ore. tor Christmas break. Call 288-0416. WANTED: Riders to ATLANTA. I'm leaving January 19. Call SCOOP at 1772 lor details. Let's gel OUT of heretllll  llckets, next to each other. Highest bid accepted. Call 287-2460 between 7 a. 10 P.M. Needed: Two GA's lor California Polytechnic B.B. game Sot. Will pay big bucks. Call Sue-6777.  Typing In my home. University Park Mall area. No calls alter 10:00 PM. 277-30115 SPORTS STAFF: NO MEETING THIS WEEK. PLEASE CALL BETH OR MIKE BEFORE WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10. - LOVE, MARILYN Happy Belated Birthday Molnnroln"'l love, Brlgld and Eileen  
92625. MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Emergency loans Ia Notre Dame sludenls only. $20-$200. One percent Interest. Due In 30 days. One day wall. Open 11:30-12:30. M-F. Lasldaytoapplyls Dec. 10. Last day oltlce will be 11 Thurs. Dec. 11.  Inexpensive 232-1523. ask tor charles. For Rent large 3 bdroom house close Ia campus will leave partially furnished call 232-6770 alter 6:00 pm NO Ave. Apt. to Sublet -2 bdrm.,  I need riders to Sugar Bowl. From Youngstown, Cleveland, Akron. 277-1004 alter 11 P.M HELPII need a ride to Sf. Louis, home of the division leading St. Louis Blues, lor X-mas breaktl My last exam ends at 3:45 Wed. Dec. 17 and I will be ready to leave by 3:4611 Will  WANTED: 4 N.D. vs I.U. b-boll llx please call Mary 8050 I-PERSONALS] DO YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING NOW!I COME TO THE ST. MARY'S ST.  ANOTHER NO Jazz Band tonight at the Nozz-10:00. SEND SECRET ADMIREE CANDY CANESII SMC Christmas Bazaar. Only $.25 ­FREE Delivery by cute 'SMC chlx' Order nowl Dec. 1-5 In LeMons lobby.  To Bethy Huffman Happy 21st birthday to •""'"""AI who Is naturally born Ia Hove a greal time In sunny Cai...Jusl don't drink yourself oblivion. Hove tun. Love, Pam  •  
furnished, street view. secure. and  share usual. Call Diane at 7895.  NICK'S CHRISTMAS BAZAAR. Today  70% of Saint Mary's forgot to con­ 
Phone  convenient to campus. $85/mo. Contact 234-0845. YOU'll LOVE IT! 2 or4 girls wanted to , •rent huge apt. Completely furnished, sale. good location. $100 ea. utilities  NEED RIDERS TO FLORIDA-LEAVE DEC. 15. CALL BILL AT 277-7675. l FOR SALE  through Friday In the LeMons Hall lobby from 10 om to 5 pm. COURSE DESCRIPTIONS FOR FREE UNIVERSITY COURSES ARE DU~ THIS FRIDAY IN THE STUDENT UNION  tribute their $1 to CANCO last week. Old you? Deadline lor donations has been extended Ia Dec. 7. Help prevenl child abuse. See your secllofl rep.  FRIDAY NIGHn Kevin Klrn suburban cowboY) REVEALS he's been hiding All these years# The KMK Fan Club  
lnc.l call 233-2597 rlghl nowl  
 OFFICE, ON THE SECOND FLOOR OF  Born Under Punches,  WaH ­ something Is lerrlbly wrong...  
OREGON  lor  CHRISTMAS.  United  LAFORTUNE  ( The Heal Goes On ), Crosseyed  Something Is ami... Thofs Ill Some­ 
Room torrent lor second semesler­ Airlines  round-trip  to  PORTLAND.  and  Painless.  The  Great  Curve  thing Is amoose here! No Moose  
beaulllul  duplex.  refurbished  In  Worth  $448.  BEST  OFFER.  Charlie  Abroad lasl year? Then get ready  Once  In  a  Lllellmel  Houses  In  Joke today. Yukon Cornelius would  
A pair or woman's, brown­glanes In a light brown Probably lost In Nleuwland on 1/17. It round. please call 7995.  Seplember. Two housemates request a third. Call 232-6859 before 11 a.m. SICK OF PARIETALS? NO APARTMENT FOR RENT-2 bedrooms, tully equlped kitchen; furnished. Call 234-0821. Need 1 roommate to replace graduating senior over In Campus View. Great apartment, no crime. Must be cool. Call 277-0617.  1247. For Sale: Technics SL-02 direct drive turntable with cartridge; Project One 50 walls/channel amplifier; Infinity RS.A speakers. Practically new, hear It to believe II. $700. or offer· see Tal at 126 Fisher or call 1925. FOR SALE: PIONEER CTF 1000 TAPE DECK. MINT CONDITION. $350.00  lor BONDAGEII! St. Johann Revival Party-this Sat. at 10 p.m. Thlswlllbea real walk on the wild slde-b.y.o.b. lor trash can punch. Black leather required. DISLOCATED COEDS WANT TO MOVE ON CAMPUS BUT WE MUST SUBLET OUR APARTMENT ... IF YOU CAN HELP US, CALL 233-2631. There will be Advenl mosses lorOFF­ Mallon, Seen and not Seen. Listen­Ing Wind??? The Overload I love you John Russell ... ABig"ThankYou" goestoallolyou who made my Birthday a night lhat 1 won't ever forget. Special Thanks goes to Liz and Laura, and also to Mike and Bill who were truly CAPTIVATING thai evening. (What Is  be upsell I am ~ror Jusl a mlsllll Moose are elegonll Moose Powe~ KC MerrymundoroonleChrlstmosclty Gondolph and the Mogle Mess 601 Mamaslto Tssl ....  
AI a formal lasl weekend, piece ol women's Jewelry. Call 1284 to Identify.  Several houses torrent, Summer '81 and/or '81-'82school year. Partially furnished, good condition. Call 287-5361 alter 7 p.m.  Call Scott 8782. NO Sludent B-ball tickets, Lower Arena, all games, Best otter, John, 1378.  CAMPUS STUDENTS lor the next 2 Sundays In Fisher Hall chapel. Join your friends In celebrating this joyous seasonl  H that they say, guys? Something llke,"Sweet Revenge?"). Hugs and kisses, Lisa  Smelly Feet and Easy Rider, We handle II, we're ofllo where planes fty underwaler. Join us? Advenlure... 601  
LOST: Sel of three keys (two are University keys) on a leather key holder. It round, PLEASE call Susan a1277-U391 LOST: Set of keys between North Dining Hall and Grace Hall, 12-1-80. II round please call1620 anytime. lost at Alumni party on Air Force weekend-a glrl'l blue ski jacket w/ slrlpes and all her ldenlll­. Call819811 you picked II up.  WANTED Two roommates wanted lor spring seme1ter. Campus VIew, $108 mo. Call Jane or Laura at 277-8646. Babysitter needed my home tor 20 hours a week. Begin Jan. Call 287­5718 Need riders back from Dallas on Jan. 10 or 11. Call Greg 6764  FOR SALE: 1970 Ford LTD. AC/Heat, NEW RADIALS, plus more ­must sell Best otter Call Carol 277-3527 6­11 pm TICKETS WANTED 2 Indiana Tics. Will pay mucho buckos. 277-8699. need G.As and 1 student ticket tor  Really, you'd think the Regina Hall president would be lounging In the Rose Garden or organizing ban­quets Instead of having to rush around. Hang In lhere, Kearo. (why not take lime out to 'score' like all lost year?) Mary Dumm ­waH 1111 we gel In clan next semester! Parlez-vous francais? I don't either. So what. Your fellow Thursday night Insomniac  Baba O'Reilly, Bargain love ain't lor keeping, my wile. Song Is over gelling In tune ­going mobile?? Behind blue eyes, we won't gel fooled again. Molly My 7-lnch spiked heels are at lhe ready should you be In the mind lor some heavy sport. "your secrel admire(' Ras and the C.B.'s-the game's up girls. We know who you are. We've  Jesslu You golavant and no one gets Ia see that pretty lace ol yours guess who PS Where'II you be In the nlghltlme on 12/12? Uncle Fudley Toke me camping Ia the Fudllest place In Michigan so we can fuddle while we camp DESTINATION:Chicago OBJECTIVE:Gel Fuddled • ETA:12/5  
Ride needed lor 2 to Pittsburgh for Xmas vacation. Can leave alter­noon ol Dec. 111. Will share costs.  Indiana BBoll game. call 1608. Need 3 lndlono GA's PAY$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  To Molly tram your secret admirer­Clue number two: Something you do In church.  been watching youl And some dark night, we're going to gel youl Oscafs Cohorts.  AMMUNITION: Missile lllg Eel at 601  
bdrm house 4 rent.$100-$200 ma the right party. 233-1329  Call Paul 1473, or Lori 41-4772. Ride needed to Milwaukee Frl Dec 6. Will shore gas and driving. Call Linda 277-11785.  Call Dennis 11719 NEED EXTRA NIGHT TO STUDY FOR ANALS OR SOME MORE CHRISTMAS MONEY7 SELl YOURIUIJ..BALl RCKETS.  VIcki and Terry: Thanks tor the decllcatlonl Don't ever forget the millions allons that you two hovel Marilyn from Morylondl  AI, I just wanted to put ltln print that the Beall are going Ia 'KILL' Green Boy on Sunday. Does our bel still stand? You beller bring at least one hundred; "le France's" prices might  alter exploring those coves with your diving tool. esiWhere'a that prop? Jorge y Seza MERRY CHRISTMAS TO All AND TO  
NEED A COUPL£ OF RIDERS TO NEW  CALL 1974.  FRANCIE REIDY: I THINK THAT WE  hove gone upl Luv. one at the c. b.'s  lilliAN  A  GOOIJ  NIGHT  
JERSEY  OVER  CHRISTMAS  BREAK.  FOR  SALE:Siudent  season  IJ..ball  HAVE  COME  UP  WITH  THE  BEST  • • can you guess which one? ( And  
MUST BE FROM SOMERSET COUNTY  tickets. Larry 1631  INVENTORY  CONTROl  METHOD  that doesn't stand lor "Chicago  JAMO WAS PROUD  
AREA, PREFERRABLY SOMERVILLE AREA. CALL JOHN AT 3106 (IIEST AT NIGHT).  SEARCHING FOR PAIR OF TICKETS FOR THE DEC. 91U GAME. CALL JIM AT 1974 EITHER EAIILY AM OR LATE PM.  EVERIII WHAT A TEAM WE MAK£11 (J. WILL APPROVE, TOO). SEE YOU AT BREAKFAST SOONIII MARILYN  Bears"l) Need riders lo southeastern • Michigan Call Ty 1942  Tauwm • we're done with our houmeworld Whalawe gonno dooo?  

~~()1"tS·cJ3==r=t=·e~=S==========================T=h=u=rs=da=y=,D==ec=e=m~b=er=4=,=19=·s=o~==pa=g=e=t~t 
All ,·1.-ls•,d,erl ,l!h n .~~the tt'H'etv~c1 by 4 45 p n1 rwu dJvs pno· •o thf' 
•SStlt-> •11 VllfliL'Il rt,P .l:l LS run The Observer offtce ~voll .:tC< f'pt, l,t"'litheds lv'1onO(t\ lhrOLI!Jh Fr,.j"'"· 10 00 d rr •o 4 45 p m All rl~sslfted~ .,, 11 .,1 be
Classifieds 
prt•·pd!t1 PHilP.r m nors011 or through 1he mdtl 
APARTMENT FOR RENT: NO Apartment DESPERATELY need ride from CENT. minor allerotlons a. repairs mens a. Honeyest Ho111wbur>nv
NOTICES __j ······································ 
'NEED 1 GA TICKETS'

tor let during second semester. FLA. area back to N.D. alter break. Happy sixth month en~~~~en,811rlllll
ladles pants, slacks, Jeans etc.
'FORND-IUBASKETBALLGAME.' Only 18 months to go.
Furnished. 2 bedrooms located an WILL MEET WHERE CONVENIENT FOR 
Shorten, take In waist, lake out flare, 
by The Ohsem·r and The Associated Pn-.r.r 

Interhall football equipment should be returned today from 7-8 p.m. at Gate 9 of the stadium. Individuals not turning in their equipment today will be charged a late fee. 
Student tickets for theJanuary 1 Sugar Bowl will be distributed on the third floor Convention Offices of the New Orleans Hilton, Poydras at the Mississippi River, New Orleans, La. 70140. Times for pickup are as follows: Monday, Dec. 29, 10-12 a.m., 2-5 p.m.; Tuesday, Dec. 30, 10-12 a.m., 2-5 p.m.; Wednesday, Dec. 31, 10-12 a.m., 2-5 p.m.; and Thursday, 
Jan. 1, 9-12 a.m. Students are reminded that to sit with another individual they must show up together and present their own respective ID cards. Also, each student who ordered a ticket is responsible for picking up his or her own ticket. No exception to this procedure will be permitted. All sales are final and there will be no refunds. 
The Sailine: Club is sponsor~.~ Dopahue 
Cup Saturday, Dec. 6. ~erace, to be held onStJoseph'sLake, will feature F.J. sailboats. There will be a skipper's meeting at 10 
a.m. in the boathouse prior to the race. For more information call Greg at 277-7750. 
Sugar Bow1 ticket allocation for· Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's students for the January 1 game between the Irish and Georgia continues today. Several hundred tickets remain of the Notre Dame student allotment of 3,000 tickets. Students desiring to attend the game should report to the second floor ticket windows of the ACC according to the following schedule: sophomores, today; freshmen, tomorrow. The ticket window will be open from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. When reporting to the window you will complete an application with your name, identification number and class year. The cost of the ticket is $17 and checks should be made payable to the Notre Dame Sugar Bowl. A student may present a maximum of two identification cards and applications. The tickets will be sold on a seniority basis or until the supply is exhausted. Since the tickets allocated to the student body are intended for their personal use, students will receive the actual ticket upon presentation of the ID card upon arrival in New Orleans. The times and places where tickets can be picked up will be published in The Observer prior to Christmas break. 
A weightlifting clinic wm be conducted by Bro. Joseph Bruno, the coordinating supervisor and coach of varsity and non-varsity weight training, on December 11. The clinic will begin at 7:30p.m in the ACC Auditorium. This clinic is open to the entire Notre Dame community. Club and varsity athletes are particularly encouraged to atcend. 
''iiiJINTERHALL ar 
RACQUETBALL 

MEN Pierce (1424) VI. Brown (3264) Reagan (8375) VI. Guilfoyle (3663) Manula (287-1616) vs. Labingar (6216) Mulligan (33391 VI. Butler (1210) 
WOMEN Gallagher (6877) v1. Doverapike (7711) 
SQUASH Reza (3006) va. Rizopatron (8689) O'Leary (233-7466) vs. Kuppe (8181) Chum (277·2329) v1. Minondo (6741) 
ON THE AIR WITH WSND: 
..
Today 

BASKETBALL-Notre Dame vs. TCU 8 p.m. SPEAKING OF SPORTS-11 p.m. 
Friday 

HOCKEY -Notre Dame vs. Chicago Circle 7:30p.m. 
Saturday 

DAN DEVINE SHOW-12 noon. open lone 
12:16 p.m. BASKETBALl-Notre Dame vs. Cal Poly 
1:20 p.m. 
FOOTBALL-Notre Dame v1. USC 3:30 p.rn 
HOCKEY-Notre Dame vs. Chicago Circle 
7:30p.m. 


Thursday, December 4, 1980-'page 12
Snorts 


Notre Damegoalie Dave Lattrion (30} turned away 31 Michigan State .rhot.r la.rt mi;ht in the A CC beljJing the Irish to a 4-3 overtime victory. 
[X)oley to stay at Georgia 

leers win 
The spell is finally broken 
outpositioned Scott to give his

By Michael Olenik After a somewhat slow start for 
teammates some needed breath­

Sports Writer both teams, Higgins began the 
ing room.

scoring finish when he took a 
Newell Brown brought the

beautiful cross-ice pass from 
Spartans back when he scored off

Notre Dame's hockey team senior Kevin Humphreys and 
a rebound, and most observers

ended a 10-game home losing broke in on Spartan goalie Ron 
quickly realized that the Spartans

streak last night with an uplifting Scott and beat him with a low 
were not about to roll over and

4-3 overtime win over visiting backhand shot on the stick side. 
play dead. They struck again for 

Michigan State. Sophomore Kirt Bjork gave the Irish a two­
the only goal of the third period

John Higgins proved to be the goal lead when he scored his 
when Mark Hamway slashed at a

hero of the tight-checking seventh league goal in 11 games 
loose puck that deflected into t

contest when he notched his after taking a nice feed from 
the net offofLaurion's stick. The

second goal of the game after freshman center Adam Parsons. 
rest ofthe period saw end-to-end 

only 1 :06 had elapsed in the extra The goal typified the scrappy 
action with few good scoring

session. opportunistic style of the 
opportunities for either team, as

The goal brought a swarm of steadily improving sophomore 
each team's forward lines were

Irish players onto the ice as they winger. 
backchecking effectively. 

finally shook-off the drought that David Taylor brought the 
The overtime was necessary

has plagued them for so long at Spartans to a 2-1 deficit with less 
after the regulation deadlock,

home. than three minutes remaining in 
but the allotted 10 minutes

Irish coach Lefty Smith show­the first period. It was the only 
proved to be more than enough

ed a faint semblance of a smile time that Irish netminder Dave 
for Higgins and the Irish to

after the game, although he was Laurion was clearly beaten, as he 
secure the victory. Defensive fill­

far from completely satisfied. "It continued to play well between 
inJohn Cox, who played a steady 

wasn't pretty, but it was a win," the pipes for Lefty Smith. 
game on the blueline, took a shot

he said, "and let me tell you that "I thought Dave played ex­
from the right point that was

it feels good. Hopefully it will set tremely well in the nets tonight," 
deflected by who else but

us off on our way for a very good Smith said. "He seems to make·
about the years beyond. We want 
Humphreys, before Higgins
ATHENS, Ga. (AP)-Vince 

second half of the season." the saves just when we need
Auburn to be a dominant force in 
poked in the game-winner from 
Dooley, coach of the No. 1-­

The game was relatively tight them."
college football in the decade of the right side of the crease.
ranked Georgia Bulldogs, has 

from start to finish, with neither The two teams traded goals in 
the eighties. We will spare no 
"I just happened to be in the
told Auburn University officials 

team willing to be too aggressive. the second period, with
reasonable effort to achieve that 
right place at the right time. I
he is not interested in the head 

That was evident in the game Humphreys striking first for the
goal." 
hope this win puts us on the track
football coaching job at his alma 

summary, as only three penalties Irish with a powerplay goal at
A source close to Dooley told 
we want to be on. It really does 
mater, officials at Auburn said 

were whistled in the entire 2:15. Humphreys gathered in a
The Associated Press earlier
yesterday. 

contest-two on the Spartans rebound off the back boards
today, "Despite the very gener­
Auburn President Dr. Hanly 

and just one on the Irish. before wristing a shot past the (continued on page 9}
ous offer from Auburn, he·
Funderburk, in a written state­

(Dooley) has weighed all the
ment, said he appreciated 

factors and decided that Georgiall
Dooley's "prompt decision and 

is the place for him." .
candor, and I wish him continued 

Published reports said Dooley
success at the University of 

had been offered the head
Georgia." 

coach's job and the athletic
Funderburk said Auburn will 

director's s job at Auburn, al­
begin a thorough search im­

though Athletic Director Lee
mediately for a coach to replace 

Hayley has neither resigned nor
Doug Barfield, who resigned 

been fired. The reports put the
Monday. · 

pay offer at anywhere from $1
"We will proceed with de­

million for five years to $1.8
liberate haste," Funderburk said. 

million for eight years, with
"We are concerned about 1981, 
$500,000 cash in advance. 
but we are more concerned 

Cichy may return to lineup 
By Beth Huffman is ready to return to the Irish of his working his way into 
Sports Editor football line-up. playing condition. You don't 
On Thursday, September 11, layoff that length of time and 
Steve Cichy, after receivi~ Notre Dame's strong saftey was come back at full speed." medical clearance, has been sidelined for what at the time was Devine said he deliberately practicing for nearly 10 days and termed "an indefinite period" delayed confronting Cichy until 
because ofan injury sustained in he was assured of the 20-year­
Notre Dame's 31-10 romp over old's health. 
Purdue on September 6. "I waited until I was sure in my 

T earn doctors diagnosed own mind that he was completely Cichy's injury as a chipped healthy," continues the sixth­
vertebra of the neck. The junior -year coach. "The positive report from Fargo, N.D., decided to from the physician at home 
Dear Scoop: Eat some crowI 
Mr. Davtd "Old Scoop" Israel Sports Departmmt 
Chicago Tribune 
435 N Michigan Ave. 
Chict~go, Illillois 
Dear Scoop, 

Craig 
Chval 


seek a second opinion at the came, and I sat on that for two famed Mayo clinic in Rochester, weeks." Minn. He was cleared by doctors Cichy was given the choice by there, dressed for the Michigan Devine to remain out while his State game, and all appeared well petition for an extra year of for the 1979 honorable mention eligibility is being considered, or all-American. to return to the team as an active 
But a short time later it was player. announced that, because of the "I have opted to play this 
I came across your commentary in the Tribune conflicting medical opinions, year," explains Cichy, "because I 
Except in the case of your columns. before Thanksgiving. It was very big of you to We are not talking here about the arttstrc Cichy, a consensus all-America came here saying I wanted to be prep player from Shanley High on a national championship
admit that you were wrong about Dan Devine success, or lack thereof, of one school's football returning for another season as head football program. We are talking instead about the School (where he played for his team-not saying I wouldn't be. coach at Notre Dame. Just between you and me father, Sid), would not play the I did play against Purdue and for
integrity and character ofa man, which is far more Scoop, did Notre Dame's press conference to important than any Super Bowl or World Series remainder ofthe 1980 campaign. a lot of people that would be <lllnounce Gerry Faust as its 1981 head coach have ever played. Coaches said it was "not in enough, but not for me." 
•mything to do with your bold confession? Steve's best interest" and "too Cichy also stated that, were the 
The rhetorical questions at the end of your 
risky" for him to resume play. Irish not in contention for the
When I first started to read your article, I article were ridiculous but effective, just as I'm 
thought it was going to be an apology of sorts. Recently, Cichy received an national crown, he probably
sure you intended. If you can't substantiate that 
Foolish me. Although an apology was just what the okay from a doctor at home, and would have decided not to
Dan Devine was pushed out of his job, or that he situation called for, your cutesy little piece was pleaded to get it back, shut up. then returned to Mayo where he return. again received a go-ahead. "I don't think Coach Devine
mere acknowledgement at best. Tell me Dave, when you left your job in 
"Coach Devine confronted me would have confronted me had
David, your smokescreen was brilliant Instead Washington several years ago to come to Chicago, 
after I went back to Mayo," said we not been in the present
of owning up to printing a bad scoop, you talked did you leave of your own volition, or did your
all about the Tribtme's infamous "Dewey Beats Cichy, who received the Hering situation," concluded Cichy. 
editor get sick of you and send you packing? And 
Award in 1979 as t'he most "He will not play if he is not
Trum~n" headline, and how your rival, the Chicago when he did, did you crawl into his office and begSur~-Ttmes ran a banner headline this summer for your job? improved defensive player. "I 'ready to play," said Devine, who had been examined by ortho­also enforced the idea that Cichy
proclaiming a Ronald Reagan-Gerald Ford Being wrong about what you printed is an 
presidential ticket. · pedic and neurological doctors is-"improving every night," but
unfortunate part of journalism that is almost And th.e~ y~u cleverly reasoned that since sports unavoidable over the space of a career. But the and they said it was okay for me added that no decision will be are so tnvtal m comparison to politics and other to play. made until Saturday prior to the
cavalier manner in which you laughed it offwhile 
pressing issues in our society, your little blunder "They released me to play, but game with Southern California.
continuing your personal attacks upon Devine was 
wasn't very important at all. warned me that there was a small "By the same token, if he
completely unprofessional. It's certainly true that we can't let athletics If you really want to be ofservice to the public, danger with my back already wants to play and is ready we will 
occupy too prominent .a place in our· volatile why don't you wonder aloud why the NCAA hasn't being injured." try to use him," said Devine. world, but in this case w~ are:'tlot dealing with wins "He has been cleared to "However, if we choose to play
taken any action against the five schools put on 
and losses, with field goals and free throws, or with participate," said Irish Head him it will not just be for 15 
(continued on page 10/

slap shots and cheap shots. Coach Dan Devine. "It's a matter minutes or so." 

