-----~------------------------­
~-------------------------------------­
... Baseballpreviews -Page 13 

VOL. XV, NO. 16 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, SEP'IEMBER 12, 1980 
Reagan accuses Carter ofmisleading public 
ERIE, Pa. (AP)-Ronald 
Reagan accused President Carr 
yesterday ofmaking up figures to 
defend ;1 flawed energy policy 
and suggested "that's one of the 
reasons why he's found an excuse 
for not debating..." 
The Republican presidential nominee, disputing Carter's rebuttal to his criticism of the administration's energy prq­gram, produced what amounted to a long:distance campaign de­bate. . 
It started when Reagan charg­ed Wednesday in Cleveland that administration policies dis­courage energy production. Caher, at the White House, countered that Reagan made the accusation without checking the facts. And Reagan retorted yesterday: 
"Unfortunately, Mr. Carter's 'truth' again consists largely of misleading rhetoric and incom­plete facts. 
"You know, there are some people who look up the figures and some people who make up the figures," Reagan told a campaign crowd that filled the lawn of the Erie County Courthouse and stretched half­way along a tree-shaded block. 
Earlier, in Buffalo, N.Y., Reagan told union men that he is a friend of organized labor. He said they cannot bargain for better wages or anything else "if 
Jimmy Carter keeps you out ofa job." He said pickets who showed up chanting "We want Carter" don't understand his own union record with the Screen Actors Guild. 
In Erie, Reagan repeated his assertion that Carter policies "have discouraged the discovery and production of energy in this country." 
Then h~ turned to a point-by­point rebuttal ofCarter's energy statements. 
Reagan acknowledged that, as Carter said, crude oil production has increased this year, but said it is still lower that it was in 1978 or under earlier Republican ad­ministrations. He said statistics published by Carter's Department ofEnergy show that crude oil production in the continental United States has declined every year since Carter took office. Reagan said Alaska did not come into full oil pro­duction until 1978, after Carter was president. 
Discounting Alaska, he said, crude oil production was 12.7 percent higher under the Republicans. 
Reagan said Carter "tried to boast about increased coal pro­ducton," but the National Coal Association says 100 million tons ofcoal-producing capacity is idle and 22,000 coal miners are outof work. "Now it's n,o surprise to me Mr. Carter is,trying to distort his record on energy," Reagan said. "Like his economic and foreign policies, his energy policies have been so damaging to this c;:ountry, he doesn't want to talk about them." 

Military overthrows Turkish government 

WASHINGTON (AP(-The since last October. government of Turkey, the President Carter, attending southern anchor of the NATO the theater Thursday night, military alliance, fell in a blood­said he had consulted about the less rnditary coup in the pre-­coup with Secretary of State dawn hours today, the State Edmund S. Muskie during an Department said. intermission in the performance 
''There has been a takeover of of ''Fiddler on the Roof.'' the government of Turkey by Turkey is considered strate­the nilitary,'' State Depart­gically important becouse it ment spokesman Sondra Mc­borders the Soviet Union. It Cartr. said last night. Few has long been the site of a detatls were available although series ofU.S.listening posts for Mrs. McCarty said Americans Soviet actions. there were reported safe. Turkey has been wracked by 
"We understans deorn our severe economic problems with embassy there was no violence unemployment as high as 20 and no dan~er to Americans percent and inflation of 130 over there,' Mrs. McCarty percent. said. "We are awaiting more The coup came just four days full information.'' after Turkey's Moslem funda­
The takeover of the govern­mentalist party ousted Foreign ment of Premier Suleyrnan Minister Hayrettin Erkrnen and Dernirel was reported at about 4 criticized Turkish foreign policy 
a.m. Friday--9~.rn. EDT* SHE for its interest in joining the SAID. He ha been in power European Economic Commu-
Residence halls benefitfromfines 
by Mary Agnes Carey 
For Saint Mary's students, several different fines may be imposed for violations in the areas of residence halls, parking proceedures, library privileges, and food service. 
Although students often are reluctant to pay fines and question their effectiveness, school officials feel the charges are both necessary and useful to the college. 
According to Sr. Karol Jackowski, director of residence life and housing, fines for room damages are "an effective way of taking care of the problem." 
"The program ofassessing students fines on the basis ofthe cost ofthe repair is similar to a contract of an apartment lease," Jackowski commented. 
The program, which began three years ago, charges students for violations of both housing and safety rules as defined in the SMC student handbook. 
"All money not used in repair of damages goes into a restricted fund for the residence halls. This money is used for such purchases as cooking and baking equipment, or students can petition for money to use in the residence halls," Jackowski said. 
Students are also fined for failure to register their vehicles or for violation of parking proceedures. Director of SMC Public Relations Anne Reed exp1ained all charges levied to students in any area must be approved by the Saint Mary's Board of Regents. 
Reed also said that proceeds from parking violations are placed in the general fund of Saint Mary's. 
[continued on page 4] 
nity, for failing to break ties with Israel and not supporting revolutionary Iran. 
Turkish arrnd forces have in­tervened in politics twice before in the 56--year history of the reP.ublic. In each case the rnditary handed power back to civilians relatively quickly. 
About 2,000 people had died in political and religious vio­lence in Turkey since Dernirel came to power when the last premier, Bulent Ecevit, lost his majority in the parliament fol­lowing heavy losses in a mid-­term election. 
Turker.s military leaders warn­ed civtlian organizations last January of the prospect of military intervention in the political life of the country. 
[continued on page 3] 
Voters register now 
by Tom Koegel Senior Staff Reporter 
With .Election Day 1980 less than two months aw~y, deadlines for voter registration fall in most states during the next four weeks. 
While regulations and dead­lines concerning absentee voting and registration vary from state to state, county to county and city to city, one can usually register up to 30 before the election. In California, New York, and Maryland voters can even mail in their registration. 
Since all ·of the deadlines mentioned herein occur before fall break, it might be advisable for first time voters to register in South Bend rather than their home state if their state does not have mail in registration. 
Here are the regulations and deadlines in various states polled by T_he Observer: 
Indiana-The last day to re­gister is October 6, and regis­tration must be done in person in thf' voter's home county. 
Requests for absentee ballots can be mailed to the voter's horne county office. The county clerk suggests that the voter allow at least a week for the return of a ballot. The South Bend Voter Registration Office phone num­ber is 284-9521. 

California -California is one of three states surveyed that allows registration by mail. Registration forms are available through the county registrar-re­corders' offices and must be received by October 6 in order to be filed for the November election. Applications for ab­sentee ballots are included with the sample ballots mailed to all registered voters, and must be returned by October 28. 
Illinois-Illinois deadlines 
(continued on PtW 6) 

! 
• t 

NewsBrieb_ 

Friday,,September 12, 1980 -page 2 
c===~========~======================================
by The Observer and The Associated PreJJ 
The U.S Army has given Nick Kotsovos too many parking tickets on his way to work, so he's taking the case to federal court. The civilian computerspecialist has beenworking at Fort Harrison for 17 years. He was recently arrested for unlawfully driving on a military reservation, a violation of the U.S. Code. The charge carries a maximum penalty ofsix months in jail and a $500 fine. Kotsovos' attorney, Pete Pappas, told federal] udge James Noland the arrestis "a classic case ofthe lower echelon of the military'1\aving gone mad." Assistant U.S. Attorney Lloyd Monroe says the action is the only way the Army could enforce its regulations. Kotsovos says he has received most of the tickets he is charged with, but his attorney argues the arrest is a case of selective prosecution, designed to set an example to other civilian employees at Fort Harrison. 
Computerized shopping? There are no lines, no cash registers, no shopping carts, no groceries to carry home from Market bxpress. It's not even a store. Market Express is a fully computeri.zed grocery outlet which delivers groceries to your doorstep. It accepts deliveries via computer terminal. "The basic concept is computer shopping. It costs $8 a year to join. Customers receive a catalogue, a code list and pay a $40 deposit on a computor terminal," says spokeswoman Rebecca Chaille. Orders are delivered from the firm's warehouse the day after they are received, Ms. Chaille said. The computer cataloge is amended with weekly specials. The list of products includes name brands, generic brands, fresh meat and health and beauty aids. "It offers everyth.ing a supermarket does. It has to. We have to be in competition with them," Ms. Chaille says. Items cost about 3 to 5 percent less than in a supermarket, because overhead is lower, she says. "Our average customer is a working woman with a family. We deliver until8 p.m. six days a week. That's where the working woman comes .in. She can call in on her lunch hour," Ms. Chaille says. There is a minimum order of $20 and a sliding delivery fee of $1.50 for orders under $35. Orders that cost more that $35 are delivered free. 
Congressman]ohnAnderson's presidential campaign won a court order further delaying the printing of Indiana's general electon ballots while Anderson supporters try to qualify Patrick Lucey for the ticket. The Anderson camp wants more time in order to gather voter signatures on nominating petitons for Lucey, Anderson's chosen running mate, and have them certified by county clerks.Just under 7,000 voter signatures are required before Lucey's name can be included on the ballot. Anne Z. Rogers, state coordinator for Anderson's campaign in Indiana, testified that she had no idea how long it would take to come up with the needed signatures. Currently, she said, 1,200 signatures have been certified-far short ofthe 6,982 required by law. Indianapolis lawyer Karl Stipher, sitting as Judge pro tern, extended the temporary restraining order barring the State Election Board from printing the presidential ballots until 9 a.m. next Tuesday. 

Higher tariffs on imported autos from Japan could fail in their goal ofhelping the U.S. auto industry. The U.S. may have to decide whether to recommend import restriction as part of its investigation of a politically sensitive complaint by the United Auto Workers union that U.S. automakers are being hurt by imports. In an interim report, the commission didn't indicate what it will recommend, but it cited "potential drawbacks" to restrictions such as quotas and tariffs. It said that while they could reduce the number ofimports, they probably wouldn't force Americans to buy the current line ofU.S. cars if they don't want them. "Since many consumers are able to delay purchases of new automobiles, there is no guarantee that the import restrictions would immediately induce large numbersof buyers to switch from imports to domestic products," the report said. 
Today's highlight in history: On Sept. 12, 1944, the first 
American troops reached German soil in World War IT. 
On this date: 
In 1814, American forces successfully defended Baltimore 
against the British in the War of 1812. 
In 1869, the Natonal Prohibition Party was organized in 
Chicago. 
In 1953, Sen. John Kennedy of Massachusetts married 
Jacqueline Bouvier in Newport, R.I. 
In 1963. 75 people were killed when Hurricane Betsy hit 
Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi and Arkansas. 
Ten years ago, Palstlflian guerrillas blew up three hijacked 
airliners in Jordan. 
Five years ago, President Gerald Ford ordered that all 
classified documents be cut off from the House Intelligence 
Committee. 
Last year, President Carter announced plans for a $2.4 billion 
program to help low-income families meet rising energy costs 
to hep get them through the winter. 
Today's birthday: Publisher Alfred Knopf is 88. 
Thoughtfor today: No mud can soil us but the mud we throw. 
-James Russell-I~owell (1819-1891). 

A slight chance of rain today with highs in upper 70s. A 60 percent chance of rain tonight with lows in the low 60s. Scattered thunderstorms Saturday with highs around 80. 
In Israel 

Volunteers go on excavation 
Last summer five undergrad­uates, one seminarian, one graduate student, one English professor, and one home-maker participated in the first (of five) University of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College Capernaum Volunteer Program, an archaeo­logical expedition in the unex­ploredJewishcityofCapernaum. 
Dr.Joseph Blenkinsopp (Prof. Theology, ND) who headed the program explained its concep­tion: "I've spent many years studying Israeli archaeology. While on another dig with Vassilios Tzaferis (a renowned archaeologist) of the Israeli Department of Antiquities, we thought up the idea for the program. We (at ND) offer a doctorate program in Christian­ity, but we wanted to generate more interest in Judaism. And nothing is better than learning from first hand experience how Jews lived in their country." 
Associate Director, Dr. Harold Weiss (Religious Studies, SMC) uously occupied until the ninth century A.D. In fact, the mound_ where the site is located (owned by the Greek Orthodox Patri­archate ofJerusalem) might be 
the very spot of a synagogue in which Jesus taught. But Blenkinsopp was quick to state: "Archaeologists aren't looking for one specific thing; we're trying to understand the past." 
Weiss, also clarifying the common misconception of ar­chaeology, added, "We have no vision of anything particular we're trying to find. There's no guarantees in archaeology. Ifwe don't find a synagogue, we haven't failed. Our purpose is to reconstruct the past." 
The volunteer program is open to anyone; the only re­striction is the limited number allowed. The program ran from May 14 to June 20. To prepare the 12 volunteers for the ex­pedition, three or four orien­tation meetings were conducted priortotheirdeparture.Lectures 

on basic archaeological tech­niques, historical background of the area, and geological facts were presented. Slides of the actual site and films of the area were snown to help the patti­cipants visualize their "home" for the next five weeks. 
Blenkinsopp and Weiss also supplied the volunteers with a reading list to supplement their archaeological knowledge, for "the more you know, the more you enjoy the program," ex­
· plained Blenkinsopp. Detailed instructions were given to the participants on what to bring and · on what must be done before the trip (i.e. passports and shots). The volunteers were housed in a youth hostel in Kare-Deshe (three km from the site). All meals were provided for the entire program. Last year's cost was $500 for housing, food, and transporta­tion while in Israel, and archaeo­logical tours. The airfare to and from Israel was $945. 
expounded further about the lla.SI~ii~II..SS..II.all_.ll..ll--~..,.......~-.~ important relationship between . _
_ VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
archaeology and theology: "The · __ scriptures concern the Biblical ~~ world and its belief; archaeology •INFORMATION •NURSING •GIFT is a tool to learn about this ~ ~ SK RE SHO
ancient world." DE A A P Capernaum, the "town of . For Further Information Jesus", was chosen as the site to I Contact: explore because ofits important Director of Public Relations role in the life of Christ. Also, 
th b d QSt th• 
previous digs led Tzaferis,, dir-sou en eopa IC ector of the excavation, to h •t J believe the site would prove 
ospl a 
fruitful in understanding early 2515 E. JEFFERSON BLVD. SOUTH BEND IN. 46615 Christiinlife since he ascertained 
21 91288 

that the city had been contin-••ISS!!ISSII•ISS!ISS!!(ii:! 1!!!1S.a!iJJSllliliS!i81iS!iSS\!ISS51B•S. 
_j 
r-The!lbse~t-
Design Editor . . ............. Margie Kruse 
Assistant Desif{n Editors 
.............. Mary Dumm ............... Vivian Sierra· 
News Editor 
. : ............. Pam Segnan · 
Night Technician 
............. Kathy Crossett 
Editorial Layout 
............. Mike Onufrak 
Features Layout 
.............. Molly Woulfe ..............Jeanne Laboe 
Sports Layout 
............. Beth Huffman 
Typists 
................. Mary Fran . : . ................... Linda ND Day Editor 
........ Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Ad Design. 
................. Anne Fink . ........... Margaret Kruse 
Computer Commander 
....................... Tim 
Photographer 
............... PhiiJohnson 
Guest Appearances 
..................... Scoop ........................ Bill .................... Panama . , ...................... Pat ....................... Grif . .................. Darby II 
...................... Linda 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Ob111rver is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
118 
smc presents••• 

Ftlday, Sept. 12 
"THE EmPTY KEG" 
8:00pm -1:00am 

free Fine Food ft music admlaalon 
a 
SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 
campus
miniStry 

Rev. Robert Griffin, c.s.c. Rev. Bernie Gaudreau Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, c.s.c. 
Rev. William Toohey, c.s.c . 
CHEVY CHASE 
RODNEY DANGERFIELD < 
Caddushack ~ 
SHOWS 1:45 3:35, 5:25, 7:30, 9:45 
5:15 pm Saturday 9:0Cl.Jlm Sunday 
10:30 am Sunday 
12:15 pm Sunday 
® 
HIRBif 
(j()f~lffi MN~N~~ 
(C) Wall Disne-y Productions 
SHOWS 2:00 4:00, 6:00, 8:00, 10:00 


-------------------------~------------~ 
The Observer Friday, .September 12, 1980 ·page 3 
.. .Military 

( wfltirwed from page I) 
At the time, the chief of the general staff, Gen. Kenan Everen, and commanders of the army, navy, air force and gendarmerie criticized political parties for their bickermg and allegedly placin~ partisan inte­rests before nauonal ones. 
The generals also said the Turkish people had no more tolerance for advocates of Isla­mic revivalism or neo--facism. 
Last March, Turkey and the United States signed a new defense cooperation agreement after five years of strained relations. 

Lewis and keenan residents enjoy the refreshments at the ice-cream social sponsored by their 
halls. !Photo by Phil johnson) · 
Wipe ..M"ichlgan Toilet Paper 
(boon each 2.ply sheet!!!) 

4 rolls for U.99 includes free bumper stickers ~ ~ shipping UPS 
? 
$4.99 -tt Great money making project···Discount by the case -tl Hurry to have it before the game···great X-mas idea 
-tl Send check or money order to: 
(Alco 

1821 S. Buchanan Rd Fr~monr. Ohio 43410 419BJ-0149 

Go Irish Wipe-aut Michigan! II 

NEW SHUTTLE SERVICE 
BEGINS TONIGHT!!!! 


t6pm) 

and runs SATURDAY as well SEE SCHEDULE IN TODAY'S OBSERVER 

THIS WEEKEND-.--.. 
-.-.FREE 

IIIII CDVITIT PRESENTS: 
• •Corner of Notre Dame & S. Bend Ave •• Remember AnTostal? Mardi Gras? 
Vegetable Buddies? Re-live those thrilling days of yesteryear with the unique Old time country & Irish music & non-stop humor of the 
Til ID!TDI 1!1111 IIID !! 
Tonight & Sat. 9P. M. • 1 $1.00 Cover 
•Present this Ad for a 25¢ BEER! 
795 A DAY AND 7' A'MILE 
921 E· Jefferson Blvd. Mishawaka
Buy 
Obseroer 

255-2323 



classifieds 

Hours.9-5 Sat. til noon 
The agreement provided for the reopening of a dozen U.S. MILITARY BASES IN Turkey that had been closed in retalia­tion for a U.S.arflls embargo after Turkey invaded Cyprus m 1974. Many of the bases have been•used to eavesdrop on the Soviet naval and nuclear activi­ties across the Black Sea. 
The Turkish government had been trying to act as a ''mid­
dlemar · '  to secure the release  
the U.S.  hostages being  held  
ion Iran.  

Turkey has a majority ofSonni and a minority of Shittes, both Moslem sects. The Shiite sect is in power in Iran. 


r-----~------­
The Observer Friday ,.September 12, 1980 -page 4 

...Fines 
[continued from page 1} 
"However,  the-amount  col­ 
lected  from  these  violations  
never  equals  the  maintenance  

1ctivities (snow shoveling, re­placement of signs, etc.) needed for the upkeep of campus parking lots," Reed said. 
According to Sr. Bernice ollenhorst, stwlents violating library proceedures are subject to fines after a three-day grace period. Separate fines are also issued for late return ofref~rence or reserve books. 
"The funds are used to replace a book if the student has lost it, or the money is placed in the general fund," Hollenhorst said. 
Any funds collected from violations involving student ID use are also placed in the general fund. SMC SAGA Food Service Director Charles Flaim, stated that SAGA charges an additional $1 for bookeeping costs involved in issuing students a new ID. 
According to Les Hitchcock of the Saint Mary's business office, any fine collections forwarded to his office are placed in the college's geneml f11nd. "College acco_unting," Hitchcock ex­plained. "We have-' several dif­ferent funds for different pur­poses, so money m the general fund is used for tuition, roo•n and board, salaric~, .t:<J other ex­penses needed to run the col­lege,"' he said. 

·Mass 
to open 



schoolyear 
Notre Dame\ opening mass, which cummemmorates the opening of the school year, will be held Sundav at 10:30 a•.m. in Sacred Heart C:nwch. University 

President.  Father  Theodore  
Hesburgh,  will  celebrate  the  
mass.  

All the priests of the Notre Dame Communitv have been invited to co-celebrate the ser­vice. Provost Timothy O'Meara will deliver the service's homily. 
Sunday's mass is especially relevant since it marks the feast of the Tnumph of the Holy Cross, and the University was founded bv the Holy Cross Brothers. 

An academic procession will, leave the Administration Build­ing at 10:20 a.m. The procession will consist of University adminstrators, deans, dis­tinguished chairholders, faculty, dorm rectors, student affairs personnel and members of the Professional SpeCialist facultv. 
Professor edward Trubac ;,_,ill read the L1turgv of the Word with Professor Linda Beard. Deanjoseph Hogan will present the offeratory gifts. 
The offertory procession will consist of four faculty members: Dr. Alberta Ross, Professor Tang Thi Thanh Trai Le, Xavier Creary and James Melsa. 
All faculty members have been individually invited to attend the mass in their academic robes. The middle section ofthe church will be reserved for them. 
The Notre Dame Chapel Choir will sing for the mass. Psalm 83-84, adapted by Henry Hayes, will be sung between readings. Durring the offeratory, a piece entitled "Sung Unto • God," by George Frederick Handel will be sung. 
The Observer Frida ,.September 12, 1980 .,.._5 


Busschedule 

6 p.m., and every hour there­after-bus departs ND Main Circle 
:04 -Edison -Ironwood cdrner (Eddies, Villa Capri, Shakey's, Pizza llut, McDonald's , Pancake House) 
:10-Town and Country Shopping Center (T & C Movie Theaters, Ponderosa, Village Inn Pizza, Bethel College) 
: 1 3 -McKinley and Main, Mishawaka (Red Lobster,Jenny's 
Smorgasbord)  
:16-Putt  Putt  Miniature  
Golf  
: 18 ­ USA  Roller  Skating  
Rink  

:21-Jeremiah Sweeney's :22-University Park-Mall Entrance 2 at General Cinema 
:32-Cleveland-U.S. 31/33 (Boar's Head, Godfather's Pizza) :34-North Village Mall 
(Shops, Village Inn Pizza) :36-Forum Cinema :38-U.S. 31/33 Pendle Road 
(CKRS Lounge, Shanghai Restaurant, Randall's, Bob Evans, Bill Knapp's) 
:40-St. Mary's College­Holy Cross Circle 
:45 -Villa Angela 
:50-Return to ND Mai Circle 


'Quickie' returns 
by Kathy Corforan 
The Student Activities Office introduces "Van Lines," a week­end shuttle service for students, featuring trips to area malls, theaters and restaurants. 
According to Dr. James McDonnell, director of Student Activities, the service begins this weekend, and will continue throughout the semester with the exception of horne football weekends. 
The bus will run on the hour every Friday and Saturday night, beginning at 6 p. rn. and return­ing at midnight. Not to be confused with the Transpo system, the shuttle is a yellow school bus from the Eakin Bus Co., which departs from the Main Circle only. McDonnell also has tentative plans to run the shuttle during Thanksgiving weekend, providing more options for the students on cam-
MASS follow-ed by
supper 

every

FRIDAY 
at the 
pus during the holiday. 
Students may ride the shuttle this weekend free of charge. However, for the remainder of the semester, students must purchase a $.50 ticket to be shown when boarding the b~s. Tickets will be available at the Student Union Ticket Office, 
second floor LaFortune, and in the dining ·halls. 
This program is co-sponsored by the Student Union Service Commission and the Student Activities Office. Fr. VanWolvlear created the idea, which is reminiscent of the "Quickie," a shuttle that trans­ported students to Michigan hars in the days of.t 8-and-over drink­ing laws. The shuttle was named "Van Lines" in his honor, ~~;nd in the words of McDonnell, it should prove to be a '"van'-tastic idea." · 

attention sen1ors 

This is your LAST CHANCE to get your portrait taken for the yearbook. Remember. vou have to have your picture taken bv Delma Studios. 
You must have signed up by next week. Do it now1Call 3557 or stop by lC La Fortune, right off the ballroom. 
THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCEJ!l 






SMCplans newprograms 
By Cece Balt'les 

Mary Anne O'Donnell, who has recently been appointed Director of Student Activities at Saint Mary's, says she is not able to "predict any major changes in policy" this year. 
As the director she will work closely with all student organiza­tions in planning and implemen­ting their programs. She will also act as liaison with Notre Dame for all student functions, and will 
be responsible for the College's -:Jlientation program for new students. 
"I will be working closely with student government and class and hall officers. We hope to continue and broaden many of the programs we already have on campus," O'Donnell said. 
"There are many excellent pro­grams at Saint Mary's with good leadership." 
O'Donnell mentioned that several new programs will be added this , year. "Student government initiated Political Week to help students better understand government," she added. 
The clubhouse will be used as a coffee house this year for the first time. This move is co-sponsored by the Alcohol Education Council and student govern­ment. "There will be student, faculty and outside talent. There will also be contests. It is being called 'The Empty Keg,"' O'Donnell explained. 
The movies and speakers have 

already been booked for this semester. Fred Stroaskas, George Sheehan and Kreskin are 
among those who wUl be ap­pearing this year. 
In regard to Saint Mary's party pt>licies Q'Donnell says she has no control over these decisions. "The purpose of the Director of Student Activities is to encour­age students to create social situations. It is important to remember that we are living in a community. These stipulations have been made to protect the members of this community," she explained. "There are many opportunities to expand the social life at Saint Mary's." 
O'Donnell carne to Saint Mary's in 1979 as the director of Regina Hall. She received a bachelor of science in elemen­tary education from Bloomsburg 
State  College  and  a  masters  
degree  in  student  personnel  
administration  from  

Shippensburg State College. 


Open 
Mon.-Wed.-Sat. 10:00-9:00 Tues.-Thurs.-Fri. 10:00-6:00 
51400 u.s. 31 North, South Bend Located 2 miles North of Notre Dame 
(219) 277-6811 
Offering the area's largest selection of entertainment centers, tables, bookcases, and desks!! 
YOUR CHOICE 
for ONLY 

$19.95each 
because you take it with you int 
assemble It yourself 

----~~ -~ ~--------~----~ 
The Observer Friday ,September 12, 1980 -page 6 
... Voter registration 

[continued from page 1] 

vary from one election board to another. The deadline for voter registration in Cook County is September 29, with additional ~egistration in the individual precincts on October 7 only. Absentee voters from the city of Chicago only may request ballots from the Board of J:<.lection up until October 28 by mail. 
Maryland-Maryland resid­ents may register by mail with their home county until October 
6. Absentee ballots may be re­quested by mail until October 28, butallow for the mailing time required for both receiving and 
Bus service will be exprmding for ND!SMC with the new shuttle service. fj)hoto by Phil johnson returning the ballot. 
Prien 10011 lin l/13110 
HOUSE 
OF

STUART 
Blended Scotch Whiskey
IIJO • , .. 
$ 29 
CA~~~lO 
lobe\ 
Rum 
10°·1 fir, 

ss39 





BUSCH 
BEER 
24 Cans 
$699 



BLATZ 
BEER 
24-\2 Oz. 
N/R Bottles 

$599 

2121 ............. 
~ ~!W-Hll 

L
0 
c 
K S 
FOOTBALL CONCESSION STANDS 
CLUBS & HALLS WITH STANDS FOR THE LAST FOUR HOME GAMES MUST PICK UP THEIR INFORMATION PACKETS AT STUDENT ACTIVITiES BY MONDAY, SEPT 15. 
FINANCIAL REPORTS ARE DUE THE MONDAY FOLLOWING EACH GAME'· NO MOTOR VEHICLES ARE ALLOWED AT STANDS· ABSOLUTELY NO ALCOHOL· ~OLATORS WILL FORFEIT FUTURE CONCESSIONS· 
L 
I 
Q
u 
0 
R 
w 
0 R 
L 
D 
Michigan -October 6 is the last day for registration which may only be done in person in the voter's home county. Absentee ballots may only be requested in person as well. 
New Jersey-The last day to register is October 6. Registration must be done in person, but absentee ballots for previously registered voters may be requested from the voter's home county by mail. The voter must include his name, home address, out-of-state address, and reason for absence from the state. 
New York-October 9 is the last day for registration, which can be done by mail with a form available from county voter registration officials. Deadline for absentee ballot requests is October 28. Requests can be mailed, and the completed ballot must be returned to the Board of t<.lections by 9:00 P.M. election night. 
Ohio-Must register in per­son by October 6 in the county office. May request absentee ballot in person any· day up to November 3. 
Pennsylvania-In person re­gistration closes October 4. 
r 
Absentee ballots are available by . mail from th~registered voter's home county office. Application for an absentee ballot must be requested by October 28 and returned by October 31, but allow more time for mail de­
livery. 
monday September 15 Library Auditorium 8:00 Dr. Douglas LaFoUette 
"Who Shouid Piay God?" 
genetic engineering and what It means for the future free admission -sponsored by SU Academic Commission 
•' : ... ,: . ;; ((=: :~ :. 


COME IN AND JOIN THE FUN



SENIOR BAR!! 
WEDS., THURS., FRI., S SAT NIGHTS FRIDAY NIGHT SPECIAL 9:30-2:00 GRATEFUL DEAD SNEIL YOUNG NIGHT 
SATURDAy NIGHT WATERMELON NIGHT 


Friday ,.September 12, 1980 -pag~ 7
The Observer 
Fee hike 
Student activities profit 
by Kathy Corcoran 

The Student Activities Office has announced a new procedure for allocating student funds--in­tended to provide clubs and organizations with a better opportunity to obtain financial support. 
Student Activities Director, Jim McDonnell said that under the revised structure, clubs and organizations will no Lnger have to compete with Student Government for money, and all such groups are ''welcome and encouraged" to apply. Dead­line is Wednesday, Sept. 17. 
Under the old system, the $17 Student Activities fee went entirely to one fund and was distributed by the Student Gov­ernment Board of Commission­ers among the Government, Student Union and all clubs and organizations, making it diffi­cult for the latter to receive funds. Last year all activities suffered from a serious lack of funds, and consequently, many clubs were discouraged from applying. 
Student Government propos­ed a raise in the fee last October to $20, and the Board of trustees approved a raise to $25 !ast spring. This is the first 
SUsponsors contest 
You can win 2 GA's to the NO vs Michigan Homecoming Game. How you ask?? By par­ticipatig in the BANNnR CONThST sponsored by the Social Commission of the Student Union. 
Check your dorms or the Student Union Office for more details. Sign up begins Monday, September 15 through Wednesday, September 17. All participants must sign-up. So crank up you creativity and join in the "MASH MICl-1" spirit! 
Juniors seek chairman 
It is not to early to oegi11 thinking about Junior Parents Weekend! The weekend will kickoff Friday, February 13 with a cocktail party and dance, continue through Saturday, February 14 with a mass and President's Dinner, and finally wind up Sunday, February 15 with a delicious brunch for all. 
Anyone intc;restec.l in applying for t e position of chairman for this weekend should pick up an application from one of the 
Junior Class Officers starting 
Monday, Sept. 15. The officers 
are: Mike Cassidy 214 Alumni 
Megan Royle 440 Lewis Keith 
Laughlin 206 Howard Suzi 135 
Farley 
Applications must be returned to the Office of Activities by Monday, September 22. Applica­tions for other posiions on this committee will be accepted at a later date. 
mcrease in eight years, accord­ing to Student Body President Paul Riehle. 
With the fee at $25, there are now two separate funds, with $20 allotted to the Student Government Board of Commis­sioners, and $5 to the Student Activities Subcommittee. This not only increases the Student Government budget, but also provides a separate fund for clubs, organizations volunteer services and special projects. 
This _{>tocedure will enable these acuvities to devote more time to" serving their J?Urpose, rather than spending ume and energy on fund raising projects. 
Once all applicauons for funding are submitted, the Student Activities Subcommit­tee will meet to review the applications and decide on fi­nancial allotment. The group will meet Sept. 21 to make the decisions. 
McDonnell said there is no need for a ten minute presenta­tion by each club--as in pre­vious years. Allotments will be decided by applications alone. Results will be submitted to the Observer, Sept. 22 or 23, and clubs dissatisfied with their budgets will have an opportu­nity to afpeal in writing to McDannel. 
Ten minute reports to the committee are required from clubs making appeals, and the group will deltver final deci­sions on Sept. 28. 
On that day, the Student Government Board or Commis­sioners will review budget pro­posals for Student Government, Student Union, Hall Presidents' Council, Off Campus Commis­sion, Judicial Coordinator, An Tostaf, Mock Convention and Fresham Orientation. 
Because of the raise in the student fee, Student Body Pre­sident, Paul Riehle expects an excess of funds. 
Most of the surplus, he claimed, will go the the Student Union to provide more campus social acttvities, and. some will also go to the Student Union to prevent an increase in future years. 
Among the new projects for this year are: "Van Lines," a dance on North Quad, a possible Student Union off-­campus house and a proposed co--op ,sponsored by the OC Commission. 
Clubs and organizations may inquire at the Student Activities Office for fund applications. The office is located on La Fortune's first floor, and appli­cations must be submitted by Wednesday, Sept. 17. 
HE BAHAMAS SENIOR TRI has openings for NON.:SENIORS (underclassmen, girlfriends, boyfriends, family, etc) TALK TO MIKE GIES or ANNE FINK (nd) 
DONNA ;SHANNON or (smc) MARTHA HAUSMANN . or stop in at student activities 
COST: 


MARIO'S 1 mile .. over the border" on 31 North. Every night is PITCHER NIGHT at Mario's!! 
Wll!f~J]Jillffi~ ~~o®® 
Strohs, Hamms, Olympia, light NO COVER 18 to enter, 21 to drink 
Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor 
Luncheon Specials Weekdays 
BeerSpecials Every Nite­8:00to 9:00$.25Mug....._ $1.25 Pitcher 
Hours
., ............................................: 
~ ~ 

!This Coupon ! 11 :00-12:00Mon-Thurs iGoodfor One 1 11:00-1 :.10Fri-Sat l Pizza ~ 
4:00-11: OOSunl$2.00offany ji Large Pizza l on our Wide Screen j$1.00of(anr l 
....u

jSmall Pizza \ i' 
.L............................................; 

! ~ I \j~ Tl~~ 4~ t fin
We Deliver 

THE OBSERVER 
is now accepting applications for the position of: 


Advertising ·Manager 
business background helpful 
salaried position 
contact Paul at 1715 for more details 


NEW HORIZONS 
Off~ring you quality MENSWEAR 
SHIRTS  SUITS  
COATS  PANTS  
HATS  ETC·  SHOES  

10% OFF ENTIRE STOCK for NO students &staff 
1.0. required over 3,000 Square Feet of 
BROOKFIELD DON MART GLEN OAK KENNINGTON Quality Brands You Know: 

CAREER CLUB SATURDAY FRENCH STAR ZEPPELIN JEANS 






Editorials 
Friday,.September 12, 1980 -page 8 

Memorizing his

They oughta be in show biz I part
Michael Onufrak 
Art Buchwald 

Ronald Reagan, Jimmy Carter, and John First, at the front table seated next to Colonel WASHINGTON-Even the "Ronnie, remember when Anderson have been doing a lot of talking lately Khaddafi, you all know him, my dear brother most optimistic supporter& of you used to make movies?" about what ,they will do ifone of them is elected Billy. Ronald Reagan had to· admit our next President in November. But what will that he had a bad week. "Yes, and I got the girl in become of these three if'neither man gains the Reagan:(cuttin~ in amid scattered applause) They are now spending a lot many of them. Every time they 
And seated bes1de the front table, the thrrd star f · h d d · b · 
necessary maJ·ority in the electoral college,· and f o time Wlt the can i ate wnte a out my movie career 
o our show, John Anderson. Let's bring him · h. · b k h · I h · 1 " 
the House ofRepresentatives, unable to reach a trymg to get 1s campatgn ac t ey say never got t e grr_ · decision, names House Speaker Tip O'Neill as up. on the track. "We know you got the grrl."d , C ( · · · d d "R · 11 · 1 That's beside the point. The
our next Prest entf arter: cuttmg 10 agttate as An erson bounds onme, te us agam exact y . h. th t 
bach man has vowed to cut unemployment, so on stage) N h ld ' 1 · what happened '' tmportant t mg was a you
ow o your mu es a nunute Ron · h ? , , worked from a script and in the 
you can be certain that neit~er ofthese~hreew~ll aid, I thought we agreed that you l!nd I open "Weren't you guys t ~re. movies you could oniy say what latch onto the unempl<:'yme~t rolls. N etther yrtll the show and then we brio on John for the "No, we were mendmg your was in the script, right?" any of these three rettre, smce they have each. d g fences from the week before. , , made it.obvious, if only to themselves, that they secon set. We thought it was safe to let :·~ don~. know what you re 
know "what's best for the country." With these R_eagan:(out of the side of his mouth) Quiet, you out of the hotel room by :lnvmg at. two facts in mind, I believe it is conceivable that Jtmmy. Remember the audience, the show must yourself on Labor Day.'' ··:ne wa~t you to _pretend the three, after their defeat, will form a show go on. Now folks, Jimmy, John, and I will each . you re makmg a mov1e about business partnership and "take it on the road." present a ten minute report on where we think "Well, I wa~ ~akmg a ~ampa~gning for president of 
Not that such a partnership would be easily America's future energy needs will come from. spc;:ech at the M_1ch1gan State the Umted States, and we want formed. On the contrary, contractual nego-Afterwards... Fa~lanid I washgomg lallong_ fine you to read _the l!~es just as 
10

tiations and arguments over artistic control unu saw . t ts fe 0--:"' a they were wntten. would prove troublesome to three men of such Carter:(angry) Now wait a minute, Ron. Either Carter dmask d10 thed afdtdenl_beb. dl "I didn't say Carter was a diverse political philosophies. To begin with, you getJohn off the stage, or its no show. I've ghot so h~lrnei rna : aM.-1h. e nember of the Ku Klux Klan." 
h ld h h ~ Th 1 1 . been in this business longer than both of you. t at w 1 e was m tc 1gan 
w owou opent e_s ow.. e~atura so.ut10n Andifithadn'tbeenformewewouldn'tbehere Carter was opening his cam-. "We know you didn't, Ron­would be Rea'gan, gtven hts actmg expenence. I , . h d .d h , pai 0 down in the city that gave ::ue. But you gave Carter an But if Reagan insisted on having Anderson, a now anyway. t s my ng t to eel e t e casts bt.rtgh to the Ku Klux Klan." 1pportunity to say you insulted
order of appearance, and my manager says
natural emcee, doing his introduction, Carter either you and I open the show, or the show :he South. Seven Governors w~.uld ?efi~itely object.. . closes down. . cu~~i~.WXf:bt:!~~. about Tus-have called in to protest your
I thmk tt would be proper for Ronald and I to remarks. The Ku Klux Klan open the show," Carter would tell Anderson. Reagan.-You're not afraid one of us will steal the "I guess so. I heard some-has nothing to do with the "Then you and whoever else the League of scene from you, are you Jimmy? body say it on the evening election in November. We've Women Voters name could join us onstage for news." got to hit Carter hard on the 
the second act," he might add. Carter: Somebody always wants to gang up on recession .. , So you can see the difficulties this troupe the established star. "That wasn't very smart, "You mean the depression." would face without even starting the show. d d d ) Ronnie. We need to win the "It's not a depresst.on, Ron-
Reagan: Like your ol partner Ted y wante to. S h y h II
One problem which could be easily solved, out · ou.~ot t em a upset nie. That's something else you however, would be concessions. Naturally, Carter:Te~dr and I never got beyond the . d~~n _the~e. . . said that wa~n't in the scr_ipt." Carter could handle this. And Carter could even contract stgmng stage. I dtdn t, darn lt. Carter d1d. ''If I'm gomg to be president hire his brother Billy to be the group's agent. R He's trying to make a political of the United States, I should be 
Billy would have no problem booking the three eagan: Well, we have. And 1think it's time issue of it." able to think for myself." into some ofthe smaller rooms and even a few of you honored yours. ''What other kind of issue ·'It's ~00 dangen;ms, Ronnie. the larger halls in Northern Georgia, as well as Carter: I just went on strike. would he make of it, Ronnie?" Every ume you thmk for your-
Northern Africa self you lose votes. Let us do Opening nigh~ in Tripoli might go like this: Reagan: Have it your way then. John and I will "~ell, I don't see why I can't the. thinking for you-;:-at least go on alone. You can go solo if you want. ad-hb when I want to. It's no unnl you get elected. fun reading the same speech all ''So what do I do about the
House announcer:(a compromise) Live from high Carter:(exiting) I just might do that. the time." South?" 

atop the OPhC tower, the Khaddafi room is 

.. . . "We're working on the script proud to present,. direct from a record-breaking Show ends as Anderson andReagan stalk. ~onme, every tlef!i you now. We'll say your remarks engagement across the United States, Jimmy, offstage to write a new script. ad-ltb you put. your foot m y~mr were misinterpreted, and what Johnny, and Ronnie. Let's give 'em a big hand! mouth. That IS why everythmg you said about the Ku Klux 
Carter's brother, of course, is responsible for is written out for you.'' Klan came out wrong and Reagan and Carter:( mule train on screen to rear) the booking so it is Reagan and Anderson who ''You mean when a guy Carter is trying to expl~it the Thank you, thank you very much. 
leave town and Carter opens alone the following wears 3: ~arter n;task at one of situation. Then we'll attack night. But don't worry, Reagan and Anderson my polltlcal ralites,?~' have to AndyYoung and Patricia Harris Reagan:(mules moving dose~) To begin with, will find an audience. It might not he the keep my mouth shut. for bringing up the Ku Kluxtonight, Jimmy and I would hke to deba~e the· Khaddafi Room in downtown Tripoli, though. Klan in the frrst place. D0 youAmerican economy and then present our vtew of They will probably have to settle for Baltimore. Art Buchwald appears reg-Ithink you can do it withoutwhere America is headed today. 
ularly on The Observer's edit-throwing in your own two Carter:Before we start though, -I would like to orials page. cents?"
Mici)ael Onufrak is ed#orials editor of The Observ~r.
introduce a few celebrities in the audience. "I suppose so, but I sure would like to go on the attack 
by Garry Trudeau  
THANK. YOO MIK£. I C&F<TAINLY APPR&­CIItr& THAT FINE INTM/JUCT!ON. - MY fi?/£N!JS, 119 iWKNaJ.J, ITHA9 8t£NOUR. GREAT Pf(JV/L.£Gc THIS YCAR TV CON(}()CTA POLITICAl­CAMPAI6N OF !IJ£3Ac.5..  
~  


/,(){eN CJ!r'•r:n '"'""''1 /Ht;: ~fYIRI~ Ufi~.U:I 
Pf?OVI/JW8Y THl3 TalJ PAI<TYSYSTEM, a£HAV£ /J/1/?a? 70 A5KOt/R5t3L.V£5, IAJHY N(JTA eeN/JINE ALlCI?NATIVE? 
WHY NOTJOHN ANIJtR50N? 
~ 
instead ofdefending everything 
I say all the time." "You can go on the attack, 
Ronnie, just as long as you stick 
Doonesbury 
HVSH, [)!CI<! 
to the script. If you don't like
ITWA5A 
the lines, tell one of us and
RH!3TORIC41­
we'll change them for you. But
QVcSTIONI 
no more surprises. Promise?"
I 
"I guess I can do it, but it's not going to be fun." 
"Okay, let's just test you. I'm going to put on a J 1mmy Carter mask. Now what do you say?" 
''Where's your dumb brother Billy?" 
"No, Ronnie, that is not what you would say. Let's start all over again. Suppose you were making 's Row and. '' 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edztor·in-Chzej ............ Paul Mullaney SMC Nl'ws Editor ........... Mary Leavitt 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman 
Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust
The Observer is an independent. newspaper published by the students of the 
Features Editor .............. Kate Farrell 
Editonals Editor ........... Mike Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Senior Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported 
Photo Editor .................. John Macor
News Editor .................. Pam Degnan 

as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views News Editor ................ Tom Jackman Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges of their authors. Column SJ?ace is available to all members of the community, and News Editor ............... John McGrath Advertising Manager .. Mike Holsinger the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executive Editor .. Margie Brassil Production Manager .... Ann.Monaghan 
• 


The Observer Friday ,.september 12, 1980 -pa~·9 



P.O. Box Q 
r--------------------------------------­
.

interpretation ofour Constitution was
that I consider the main piece of cally'' follow that the rest of the student 
evidence which he presented for his influenced by the Justices' personal

Inside the ND 
body (including Ms. Adamson) generally argument and his treatment of it, i.e., acts in a similar fashion. 
philosophies concering the races, and the Republican platform plank on their doctrine was not discarded until much later when the bench became Ms. Adamson's rash generalization is 
appointments to the federalJudiciary.


pressure cooker 
occupied by Justices of a different hardly fair to her and many other Notre In addition, this letter should serve to resolve questions in the minds ofsome 
social and moral philosophy. 
~studer:tts: She unfortunately cannot Especially today, with the Supremereaders regarding this plank. 
gtve ~e maJonty of the students credit

Court more powerful than ever before Judiciary plank as a " ... so called "litmus and with it handling down numerous for acting maturely because of her bad test' for these judges ... This plank early morning experience. Most of the 
life no party 
In your editorial you described the 

decisions which have been clearly proposes that all prospective judges be influenced by the Justices' philo­people I have come into contact with a
Dear Editor, 
sophical positions, it is important for a to the bench. The constitutionality of President to consider this aspect of a consideration to respect the rights of against abortion or not be appointed this school have the decency and the This is in response to Miss 
this is dubious at-best." First, Mr. judicial candidate. their fellow students. Of course, there Adamson'~ article (Taste of ND 
Walton, it is somewhat astounding This should be sufficient evidence to are a select few who think only of Rudeness)(Observer, Sept.lO). 
prove the point that the Republican themselves, with no regard for anyonehow you passed judgement on theI wonder if the thought ever entered plank proposes nothing new or un­else. However, the policies for the sake Constitutionality of the plan!<: in such her mind that the behavior she an off-the-cuff manner, without any usual. It merely puts into writing that of such a minority.
witnessed could have been a result of 
evidence in support of your position. which has been an implicit considera­
certain rules we have to put up with, Furthermore, the c.oncept of maturity
Furthermore, Mr. Walton, anyone tion in most federal judicial appoint­
not a cause. does not really enter the picture with
who has read the plank verbatum ments throughout our nation's 
It is hard to act like "mature, many of these policies concerning
knows that you distorted its words and history.
responsible adults" when we are campus life. The banning of kegs from
spirit in your parpaphrase of it. For These facts also suffice, Mr. Walton, 
treated like children. The behavior dormitories is an inconvenience-and a
those who have not seen the plank, it to show that your editorial was a 
that she saw was no doubt a result of major one at that-but students will
reads as follows: "We will work for the misrepresentation of the topic about 
frustration that is prevalent in the continued to drink. They have to resort
appointment ofJudges at all levels of which you wrote. 
Notre Dame community. A kick in the to paying more money and making more
the Judiciary who respect traditional 

· shins always brings about a response, of a mess by buying cases of beer. family values and the sanctity of in­
more often than not an unpleasant Vince Barbin· 
nocent human life." It seems obvious 

Unless the administration determinedone. We, the students, have been 
that you read something into this 

that draft beer is more damaging to thekicked a few times too many. We 
statement that comes not from its students than bottled beer, the kegdefinitely need some changes. Then, 
words, but from your own prejudices. policy hardly makes sense. With re­maybe Angela will be able to sleep. 


Drunken ,rowdy,
But granting that some people do gards to parietals, if the UniversityMeanwhile, the "ND pressure cooker" 
have questions as to the propriety of a believes that these rules will significant­keeps building up steam. Enough said. 
political plank which says that the ly prevent sexual activities, they might party, if in power, will consider the be surprised to learn that such acuon

Ihmersnot
philosophical positions of a candidate can occur before 2 a.m. on week-end to the]udiciary, let us look at the plank nights. It is rather disappointing that in its historical context. Is it new and 
Pat Martin 


the norm
unusual that a President be concerned the administration would expect behav­Walton offthe with the philosophical perspective of ior of this sort simply because members his judicial appointees? History clearly of both sexes are togethers at some late
Dear Editor: 
points to the conclusion '.'No". hour on a week-end. Maybe maturity Some fine examples df those who does enter the picture: perhaps the
cuffon 

considered this in their appointments are our first two Presidents. Henrv K. administration 1s punishing us for Abraham in his book]udge.rand]usticees, ' Upon reading The Observer editorial several people's immature actions andconstitutionality A Political History of Appointment.r to the secnon several days a~o, I became. rather subseguently feels the necessity to 
Supreme Court wrote: Both (George) -surprised with a particular letter written make msens1ble rules to show us who is by a Notre Dame student. Angela the boss. Washington and John Adams limited
Dear Rditor, Adamson understandably was u_pset
their choices ofjustices to persons who when she could not get to sle~p one rught

were firm supporters of the Federalist We obviously cannot take an isolated interpretation of the Constitution." In example like Ms. Adamson did andWith regard to Tony Walton's because of a few students' drunken
other words, they insisted that all their irrationally proclaim that the rype ofAugust 29th editorial entitled "Reagan screaming and stereos blasting. She used 
nominees be proponents of the action she experienced is ''becommg the and the Righteous Wing," I was taken her predicament to exemplify the behav­
Federalist philosophy. norm rather than the exception. '' Suchback by the righteous attitude which ior of Notre Dame students; from there, 
~ationality has obviously been abused by

The consideration by a President ofa really disturbed me was not that he perspective Judge or Justice's philo­she justified ~he University .a~nistra­
he displayed in his writing. But what Notre Dame officials to explain why some passed judgement on Mr. Reagan and sophical outlook is certainly under­tion' s enforcmg keg prohib1t1on and of the policies have no student input.
parietals. Mter all, these rowdy students behaved immaturely, so it would "logi­
his supporters. Rather, it was the fact standable in light ofour Constitutional Notre Dame students should be able to 
history. It shows that the personal

that, in the course of the editorial he live in an environment in which they can grossly misrepresented them. be treated like adults. Insensible rules
philosophy ofaJudge, and in particular 

Though maybe I should take the a Supreme CourtJustice, often affects are merely obstacles to a healthy lifestyle readers through the article point by his legal position on· Constitutional that astudent must have. . point and expose the factual distor­matters. Consider an obvious The Observer welcomes letters from 
tions, that would be excessively example, P/es.ry v. Ferguson. There the its readers. Letters should be typed, engthy and unnecessary. It should Supreme Court used the "Separate but double-spaced and signed. To assure suffice for the purpose ofmaking clear Equal" Doctrine to deny blacks their swift publication the un'iter should Michael Burton the extent of his misrepresentations 14th Amendment rights. Certainly this include his or her phone number. 
China Syndrome: Oldfashioned melodrama 


Paul Kenney 

The Social Concerns Film (Jack Lemmon), meanwhile, reactor control-room scenes. Pennsylvania permanently unin-the somewhat simplistic Haydn­Series led off its fall schedule with suffers the disillusion ofrealizing The resemblence to the se­habitable." This is a substantially Fonda thesis, that the "little China Syndrome, a fast-paced, that a life spent in the service of quence of events which ocurred larger area than Hiroshima and people" inust rise against their visually exciting melodrama. A Corporate Power has been be-later at Three Mile Island is Nagasaki where nuclear bombs corporate-conglomerate 
T.V. investigative reporter who trayed by bosses who do not uncanny. were exploded to deliberately capitalist-male chauvanist happens to be present at a hesitate to lie, cheat, and even As propaganda for the Haydn­cause devastation in World War oppressors? I myself believe that nearaccident in a nuclear power murder to gain their ends. The Fonda political philosophy, the II. Hiroshima and Nagasaki have it is extremely important to alert plant uncovers evidence of cor­film is a vehicle for the political film is too heavy-handed T.he been and are today heavily our students to the moral porate conspiracy, risking the thought of1 hard-line activists "good guys" (the "little people") populated, besides which, as any-problems of the "real world", public safety to protect invest­Jane Fonda and Tom Haydn, and the "bad guys", the wealthy, one who took a high-school and especially to sensitize ments. In the course of the story, who invested heavily in its big-shot corporations heads and physics course should know, science and engineering students aspiring young reporte~ production. their minions, are cardboard cut-power reactors simply do not to the social consequences of
1 

Kimberly Wells Gane Fonda) China Syndrome can be con-outs. Whenever the producers explode like a nuclear bomb. their research and development. experiences social redemption as sidered at different levels. As are afraid a point is too com­While there is a seeming attempt Does China Syndrome do the she turns her back on job entertainment, the film is a plicated for the audience to to present both sides of contro-job? The group I saw it with on security ("I am not ashamed that suspense-filled thriller wih out-grasp, one of the characters versial issues, the "good guys" Monday night recognized the I have a good job and want to standing performances by delivers a lecture. The "nuclear get the best lines. film for the old-fashioned keep it") and battles her wealthy, Lemmon and Fonda. Technical accident" onwhich the plot turns As a selection for the Social melodrama it really was, hissing chauvinistic producer for the effects are supurb, especially in is scientifically implusible: a Concerns Series, China · the villains and cheering the chance to do "hard" news. the chase sequence and in the reactor explosion which will Syndrome presents problems. heroes lustily until virtue Nuclear en~i~~er Jack God~ll realistic TV-studio and nuclear "render an area the size of Does the Commission endorse +riumphed at the end. 


.. 


--··~·--~------------~ 


Features 
Friday, _September 12, 1980 -page 10 
.. -. 


&>rghtlffi Festival? Clleck it Out! ! 


Kathy Leaman 
Farmer demonstrates old-fashioned horse-drawn plow. 
Saturday and 4:00p.m. on Sunday, the 
Tar Bottom String Band -whose 
Vegetable Buddies visits have been 
enjoyed by Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's students, will perform "old­
timey American tunes, county !:-lues 
and more played on the banjo, 
banjolin,. hammered dulcimer, 
mandolin, violin and guitar. 
Other local groups plan to 
contribute to this "education-in-prac­
tice weekend. The W ellness Support 
Center of South Bend will be present 
to discuss turn-of-the-century nutri­
tion needs and processing. They will 
have samples of "fruit leather," and 
recipes will be distributed for those 
visitors interested in incorporating 
some of these more healthy eating 
habits into their diets. 
From Discovery Hall in the Century Center will come examples of antique farm equipment. The South Bend Public Library will give three slide talks on midwestern life in the early 1900's. 
Jean Schmidt, a Quaker fron, Cassopoles, Michigan, will discuss the plight of the slaves who found liberty through the underground railroad· during the Civil War. And as a special attraction, cast members of"Sit-Down '36" -a Miles Coiner play about the locally famous Bendix Corporation strike of 1936 -will give an excerpt of their show which will be performed on Sept 25 and 26. 
For those visitors to the festivities who enjoy a more· rousing specta.cle, the Michiana Civil War Re-enactors will stage the "Battle of St. Patrick's Landing" at 4:00 on Saturday and at 
1:30 on Sunday. Several units ofUriion and Confederate infantry, artillery and calvary in authentic uniform will engage in simulated combat. Women dressed in habits once worn by St. Mary's nuns who served as "nurses of mercy" during the war will be on hand to aid the "wounded." · 
In addition, students can 
see the handiwork of two Notre Dame 
professors -Bill Kramer of the Art 
Dept. who has constructed a raku kiln 
for firing pottery andJim Kohn of the 
Chemical t.ngineering Dept. who has 
helped design the power still which can 
replace fossil fuels with solar energy as 
a source of heat distillation. This can 
be done with a focusing collector 
which concentrates the sun's energy 
on a copper tube of water. The heat 
generated by this procedure powers 
the distillation process. And because 
sorghum contains 12-18% sugar, it 
serves as a good source ofethyl alcohol 
through distillation. This is one wiy in 
which Geoffrion's goal to "explore 
contemporary values through harvest­
ing a tradional crop" is realized. We 
can see that our past can have a 
particular significance to the present. 
The third annual Sweet Sorghum Celebration, then, is more than a harvesting ofa staple crop. It becomes a "harvesting of our heritage," an exploration of a time when life was more healthful. As Carmen Samora points out, "It's a chance to tell the story of our ancestry, and a chance to have people listen." The Celebration provides an opportunity to learn, to examine the values of another time and consider renewing them today. Admission is $1.00 and parking is free-a small price to pay for such an enriching gift from our past. 




Features Friday, September 12, 1980 -page 11  
LETTERS FOR A LONELY GOD Sighs ~nd Whimpers .Rev. Robert Griffin you are living the romance of sunsetDarby O'Gill is tired of being kept everlasting midnight when the stars are and the burdens lightened. The placeand evening star; the sadness at thewaiting. He is cross because I insist on all shining; with neither a.m. or p.m., entered is a vantage point, it seems, surfeit of goodbyes you have said by dressing before taking him out in the nor before or after, but exclusively a like a mountaintop that does not reach seventy; the rage ofage at eighty whenmorning. He is impatient with being NOW that neither ebbs nor flows, so the sky, to which the sweet chariots can you discover the ways that the yearsleashed outside the doors of the dining that tomorrow and yesterday are swing low, or Jacob's ladder can be can be unkind; the unwillingness to lethall, where he is never invited in, to beg forever, inalterably, and entirely lowered, or stairways can be built with go, until letting go is all that is left for table· scraps. At three in the afternoon, today, world without end, praise God, ease to the busy side of the Milky Way. you, some year after ninety, if you he is ready for supper. He turns over Alleluia! The lost will be found, and the The view opens on the dear, sweet his empty bowl with a protesting paw, then shall be always, both the contra­should live so long. ·beauty of earth, and the landscape is You wait for something to happen,and kicks the dish around the room. dictions and the resolutions, the lone­friendly with familiar faces that have provided it is not the wrong thing. YouHis tantrum is observed; but still, no liness and love. Birth and death and life been cherished for a lifetime. You, at wait for something else to be over,supper is served him until five o'clock. are experienced together in heaven, in the bedside, realize you are onlyprovided it is not a good thing. Yo_u areNine months' old cocker spaniels do unceasing and simultaneous joy. hearing half of a conversation that restless, bored, impatient, and afraid ofnot decide upon one's domestic ar­In the meantime we have this speaks to the living and the dead as a change that may be more hatefulrangements. He must wait for the metered life, with the ragsand bones of though they were together in the same proper hour before he is fed. Waiting is a piecemeal existence thrown at us as than waiting. company. You wonder if the children Darby O'Gi/1 sits in a closed room,the princip occupation ofa dog's life; though we were beggars who have no she gteets are her infants who scarcely impatient for his master's return. His little waiting means being a slave to rights. From birth to death, we are survived their birth. body liespressedagainst the door. You can seesomebody else's timetable, with never handed out endings and beginnings, For a person possessing the fullness the tip ofhis paw shoved under the door; thata schedule you can set for yourself. but what we mostly know is waiting. A ofher life in a simultaneous experience visible tuffofhair is all ofhim that can escapeWaiting is as intolerable for a man as it thousand times a day, I look at a watch, of loves, there is no hurry to goimprisonment. Finding him waiting like thisis for a beast, as is evident from the waiting for .a phone call, a meal, an anywhere, and heaven can wait for­makes me feel sorry for having been gone soannoyance of travellers who dream of arrival, the comfort of sleep at day's ever. I can imagine God, like a perfect hijacking planes when they getstuck at end. I wait for the weeks to pass until I long. gentleman, taking offHis tall, silk hat, Ultimately, I think, in every life, it isairports. have lived until a birthday, a holiday, a saying: "Take your time, my dear. God's turn to wait. Waiting at theLike my dog Darby, I am tired of wedding day, a wake. I wait for the Whenever you're ready, you'll find a bedside of someone who is very sick, being kept waiting. One complaint years to pass, fearing age, yet needng to minute for me." you could suppose that the sick person about life I would like to register with move beyond the daydreams known at I enter the room where Darby's beenis waiting for death, but itdoesn'tseemGod, existing by Himself independ­twenty; the first fears, still faint, at waiting. He gives me a look, as ifto say:true. From watching, you get an im­ently of time and tide, is: "Too much reaching thirty; the delusion ofthinking "Where in the. worldhaveyou been?" I scratchpression a-s though the person had left waiting. Too much bloody waiting." that life, at forty, is just beginning; the his ears and rub him under the chin. He'll heone room, and entered another: a kind One of the unstressed merits of mood, familiar at fifty, that you're not .with me now unttl morning. IfI wake upfirst,of private place within herself, or aheaven is that all ofthe clocks are setat going to make it to the semi-finals; the I take him out to see the early sun.shelter where the yokes are made easy an eternal noon ofaJune day, or at an pleasant fiction, enjoyed at sixty, that  
'Second Gty 'Promises No.l Entertainment Kevin Korowicki Sahlins were joined by actors Paul With very little in the Mike Hagarty, a 24-year old It is said that "laughter is the best Sand, Mina Kolb, and Alan Arkin to way of stage props-six wooden Chicago native of the group, medicine." If this statement is true, form "Second City." chairs and a piano ­Second City shares that philosophy. "You then the cast members of Chicago's From the chop suey house, the creates scenes for the mind's eye. They show an audience themselves, "Second City" comedy troupe are the group moved to a defunct Chinese will take the audience on mini-dramas then they recognize the humor finest doctors in town. laundry in Chicago's Old Town area. to a sunny balcony in Greece; a kitchen ofcertain situations and respof!.d Second City offers a light-hearted Success finally arrived. Chicago of a quarreling family, a newsroom with their laughter." release from the pressures of today's citizens took to Second City, and anchor booth, the waiting room of a Sandy Davenport, a 24 year old society. Their witty and sarcastic before the group realized it, they were sex cinic, or the famed PTA school frizzy-haired member says, sketches attack some of our most "institutionalized." Municipal honor ~uditorium. Each scene is unique; no There is a element where people sacred cows: problems in American and the pride ofa few struggling actors one member of the audience "sees" say, 'My God, I'm really like life, American tourists, sex therapy, turned Second City into chic entertain­the sketch the same way. As Mr. that-I've said that 1000 test-tube babies, rape trials, computer times."'ment. Packed nightclubs led eventual­Sahlins sees it, the "humor depends on dating and "night club smoothies." ly to Broadway productions, television the shared understanding of an audi­Sandra Bogan, 23, still another These sketches develop from im­specials, and tours. ence...humor should not be a Second City member, likes re­provised material. lating directly to the audience in Today, Second City has come into its mechanism, but a discovery." The reaction of each audience person. "The neat thing," saysown. In a friendly sense, the Chicago This "shared understanding" is the creates a unique spontaneity which Bogan, " is we work in a settinggroup rivals New York's "Not Ready basis for the Second City style, as­Second City incorporates into their for Prime Time Players," much like sociate producer Sloans asserts. She where you can see the audience, show as they transform the absurd into and you see their faces light upboth cities' skylines compete for points out that improvisational the hilarious. and the say, 'Oh yeah,' and youhonors ofgreat height and magnitude. comedy is not the same. as stand-up Second City has produced some of can tell you've hit on somethingSecond City has been consulted by comedy. "They don't go for the joke. America's finest comedians. The list they've be~n thinking about to­NBC for the development of several They are 'actors'; their laughs come seems endless: Alan Arkin, Joan day."situational comedies, as well as creat­out ofthe reality they are creating. The Rivers, Valerie Harper, Robert Klein, ing a parody of "That's Entertain­worst thing I can say to them when The most important thing that and David Steinberg. More recently, ment" called "That's Show Biz, Part they come off the stage is, 'I didn't one will notice about Second stars such as john Belushi, Bill Murray, 29." believe you."' City is the "community of Dan Ackroyd and Gilda Radner, all comedy." The actors are taught from NBC's "Saturday Night Live" at an early stage that no one television program, had their intern­individual is the star. Bogan says, ships with Second City. "When a show works, the audi­Second City originated in the early ence should just say 'they're all 1950's at the University ofChicago. An great.' informal group (which included Paul Second City will be perform­Sills, Eugene Troobnick and Mike ing at the Century Center in Nichols) discovered a common inter­South Bend on Sept. 12th and est in theatre and decided to combine 13th. Tickets are $5.50 for their talents. Borrowing the title ofA. students with an ID and can.be ]. Liebling's derisive New Yorker profile obtained at the Century Center of the Windy City, they founded the box office or by calling the Box Playwright's Theatre Club on the office at 284-9111. Kevi11 second floor ofan ex-chop suey house Korowicki is a senior history major at North and LaSalle Streets. from Doylstown, Pa. This is his first The group suffered financially and contribution to Features. The author was forced to disband for a short period would like to thank Mary Gause ofthe in 1959. Later that year, however, the Century Center Promotion addition of several new members Departmentfor her help in writingthis a new vi~ or to the act. Sills and article.  

-~~------~----­
' 


The Observer 
Friday,.September 12, 1980 -page 12



Weekend 
Campus 
for friday sept. 12 
4:30 p.m.-colloquium -"indecomposable in­tegral quadratic forms" prof timothy o'meara,nd,226 ccmmb 4:30p.m.-lecture -"1 ,5-electrocyclizationa, an important principle of heterocyclic cheistry" prof. rolf huisgen. 123 nieuwland 7,9:30 p.m.-film-"har ian county, u.s.a." wash. hall 7,9:15,11:30 p.m.-film­"rocky 11" engr. aud. 7 ,9, 11 p.m.-film-"rocky", carroll hall,smc 8-1:00 a.m . -· night spot-"the empty keg" smc clubhouse 
9:00 
· p.m. -cruise­"senior class riverboat cruise" elkhart queen $3 for saturday, september 13 

9:00 
a.m.-trip-alpha phi omega to sr. marita's day school 6:00-8:00 p.m.­comedy-"the outcasts", shuttle buses 7,9,11 p.m.­


film-"rocky" carroll hall smc 7,9:1~,11:30 p.m.­film-"rocky 11" engr. aud. 7,9:30 p.m.-film­"harlan county u.s.a." wash. hall for sunday, september 14 
10:30 a.m.-mass­opening mass, sacred heart church 1:00 p.m.-meet­ing -nd chess club, la­forrune rathskellar 2:00 p.m.-reception-pres­idents reception cce 2:00 p.m.-meeting-judo club rescheduled,rockne, floor 2 6:30 p.m.-meet;;. ing-campus scout.pl.>f"Zie room 


Seniors sponsor 
•

crutse 
The Senior class will sponsor a Riverboat Cruise on the hlkhart Queen this Friday, September 
12. Only 200 tickets are available at a cost of $3.00 per person for an enjoyable evening of refresh­ments and dancing. Tickets are available at dinner in both dining halls or from your hall repre­&entatives this week (Sept. 8-12). We will board the boat in hlkhart· at 9:00p.m. 

Molarity 
'tt)() 5£X/5Tl MITCH, YOU THINK £JOM£N ARE A)OrHING 1-K)RE: THAN 

Pean.uts 

ACROS$ 32 Cooking fat 1 Saying 33-of the nothing earth 6 American 35 Hang around 
patriot 39 Glad 10 Greenstone tidings 14 Dodge 41 Sweets in 15 Cheese a jar 
place 43 Gas or 16 Verily rifle 17 Beam 44 Reverbera­18 Parisienne tion 19 Interlaced 46 Laborer 20 Insincere of yore 
declaration 47 Spirit in 22 Hat part "Paradise 23 Rank Lost" 24 Hardly ever 49 Signpost 26 Expedite 51 Flick 30 Bridal path 54 Snakes 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


9112/80 


·~OW CAN I WRITE A WHOLE PAGE ON 
CAN BEEF CCXJf'vWDBAKE? 
oo Fr>RH wsrNJI> cL£NJ? 
CAN VEAL IAK£ DICTl\TloN? 

WELL, L{OU CAN WRITE 616, OR L{OU CAN DO SOME HARD R~5EARCH 

Michael Molinelli 

Charles Schulz 
~ 
~ 





56 Indigo 25 Choir 57 Lawyer: sl. singer 63 Frog: Lat. 26 Tiller 64 Portend 27 Part of 65 Bequeath T.A.E. 66 Small bills 28 O'Casey 67 Horned fish 29 Bawl out 68 -de menthe 31 Hankering 
69 Engage, as gears 70 German coal region 71 Caruso was one 
DOWN 1 Divulge 2 Jai ­3 Tooth edge 4 Relative 
of nones 

5 Cylindrical and taper· lng 
6 Fling 7 Byrd or 
Dewey 8 Secular 9 Mideast 

potentates 10 Word hard 
34 Toward shelter 
36 Derby winner, Genuine ­
37 French01an's name 
38 Belgian river 40 Disease 
carrier 42 Vigor 45 Actress 
Cardinale 48 Metrical 
foot 50 VIew 51 Billiard 
shot 52 Nonsensical 53 Baseball 
teams 55 Guide 

to pronounce 58 One of the 11 Con -Chaplins 12 --may· 59 About 
care 60 Utopia 13 Antagonist 61 Italian 21 Hair lake resort 
treatment 62 Jug 

The Daily Crossword 

9/12/80

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 
All Rights Reserved 

THIS WEEKEND AT THE NAZZ 
FRIDAY NIGHT: 9/12/80 Deidre Dalton 9:00
hair designs for the aware man and woman 
John Cuckovich 1 0:30 




STUDENT SPECIAL/ 
---with a special guest 
MON-TUES-WED. onlv 
appearance by Mark Davis 
FREE REDKEN CONDITIONER 
WITH 
SATURDAY NIGHT:
HAIRCUT & AIR-DRY STYLE 
Barry Stevens 9:00


@REDI<EN® 
Rick Walters 10:30

HOURS mon-8:30-5:00 fri-8:30-6:30 tues-wed-8:30-5:30 sat-8:00-4:00 
THE NAZZ IS LOCATED IN 
thurs-8:30-8:30 

THE BASEM~NT OF LAFORTUNE
hone:l34-6767 

Splrts ~-Baseball ~riday ,_September 12, 1980 -page 13 
Glnfidence key as Irish begin. fall season 

hy Dave Irwin Sports Writer 
If first-year head coach Larry Gallo has his way the Irish baseball team will be heading into this fall season with a wealth of confindence. The Notre Dame squad experienced its finest spring everin 1980 with a 29-8. 
"You have to realize you can beat them." Gallo said. "That's one thing we did accomplish last year. We hope to keep the winning attitude going." 
The Irish not only compiled a 29-8 but set six team marks as well. The 29 victories represent the most victories ever by a Notre Dame team and the . 7B4 winning percentage was the best since 1936. Team records broken include: a . 33 3 batting average, 262 runs, 3 38 hits, 464 total bases, 229 runs batted in and 196 walks. 
Gallo, however, will miss the ser­vices of the graduated Dan Voellinger and Dave Bartish as the Irish prepare for the fall opener against Indiana State, Sept. 14, at Kline Field. Voellinger, who caught every game last year, set individual records of 69 total bases and 38 runs batted in. Bartish set an individual record with his .422 batting average while being named second team shortstop on the Academic All-American team for 1980. 
Brightening the outlook for the fall campaign will be senior co-captain Mike Jamieson, who set .an individual 
record last year by scoring 36 runs. Jamieson, an outfielder, hit .358. 
"The kids made an absolute fan­
tanstic pick (naming Jamieson cap­
tain)," Gallo said. "He leads by ex­
ample. They respect him." 
JoiningJamieson in the outfield will 
be senior George lams and junior Dan 
Szajko. Szajko batted .320 while lams 
helped out with a . 304 
"Szajko is one ofthe best d~fensively I've seen in college," Gallo said. "He hits all over and has a good arm. They 

After graduation 

Captain jamieson aimsfor coachingjob 
by Bill Alarquard Sports Writer 
A lot of baseb:11l players consider coaching as an afterthought, a way of staying close to the game when their bodies can't keep up. 
But for Irish captain Mike Jamieson, coaching is more of a goal than a sidelight. A double m.qor in finance and education, the senior outfielder/desig· nated h1tter lwpes that course combina­tion may opt.:n a few Joors into the facnlty lounge and on to the baseball field. 
''I'm c<~ns1J~·nng .1 f..:w u>terviews with various busme~s firms, · offers.Jamteson · with a glanc.-toward the placement manual at his ~ide. "But what I am really interested in 1s teaching, probably at the high school level." 
''And ifthere were a coaching position open, I'tl be more than happy to take that too," he admits with a smile. 
H the credenttals he has displayed in a Notre Dame uniform lor the past three years are any indication, Jamieson is certainly qualified for such a coaching 

• post. The Detrott, Mich. native boasts a .357 career batting average, having led the team in hitting two years ago and finishing second behind Dave Bartish in the 4 980 spring campaign. 
Yet Jamieson's biggest asset at the plate is undoubtedly his knack for getting the ball in play. In the past two years, he has whiffed only 12 times in 279 official plate appearances. 


NOTREDA1\1E 
1980FAll 

BASEBAll 
SCHEDULE 
Sept. 14 INDIANA STAlE 20 VALPARAISO 21 lWNOIS-CHICAGo CIRClE 27 SPRING ARBOR COllEGE 28 LEWIS UNIVERS11Y Oct. 4 at Bradley Tournament 
Indiana State Bradley St. Louis
5 
at Valparaiso
10 11 NOTRE DAME ALUMNI 12 KALAMAZOO 17 ST. FRANCIS 18 ST. FRANCIS 
I 
to catch the ball-that leaves plenty of 
holes for the ball to find. 
"Basically, I am satisfied ifi hit the ball hard, even when I make an out. There's always a chance to advance a runner, even when you make an out, while the ball is in play. Striking out doesn't do anyone any good." 
After he completes his student teaching next semester, most probably teaching accounting and typin~ at South Bend's Washington High School, Tarnieson would like to return to his 
·alma mater, Ddroit's Brother Rice High School. 
Mike jamieson 
"I've talked to the coaches there and they will do their best to find a place for me. Hopefully with what I have to offer as a coach, they will find room on the faculty too" 
Jam'ieson's only previous coaching experience has been on the grade school level, but as an assistant he hopes to develop the talents and characteristics required for a head coaching position. 
"As an assistant coach, the only pressure I really have is the pressure I put on myself," explainsJamieson, who earned three baseball monograms at Brother Rice. "When the team loses, the coach never blames his assistants-but he sometimes credits them when the team wins. It helps to build your con­fidence and give you a feeling of accomplishment." 
"I also feel I would have a good rapport with the kids I'd be coaching, since I'm not that far removed from their situation. Many older coaches forget what it was like when they played on a team; it would be easier for me to remember." 
Jamieson plans to tap the experience ofhis coaches at Notre Dame, both first­year coach Larry Gallo. and previous coach Tom Kelly. 
"I want to talk to Coach Gallo and Coach Kelly about their methods and procedures," remarks the Keenan senior. "The coach's attitude is very important for the team's success and I know I can learn a lot from both of them." 
Attitude is an important part of the game, which explains Jamieson's philo­sophy during the fall exhibition season. 
"Granted, the purpose of fall practice is to sec who can play what position, but that is not the express purpose. It's important to win a lot ofthese fall games too. That instills a winning attitude in the team, whtch is always imp~rtant. 
"I can remember several times back in high school when we weren't as talented as the team Wl' were playing against, but we still managed to win because we had a positive outlook." 
As team captain, Jamie~on envisions his responsibilities somewhere between the coaching staff and the players. 
"I act as a buffer between the coaching staff and players. If there is something the players don't like, I'll talk to the coach about it, and vice versa. And if I ain not doing the job I should, I expect either the players or coaches to tell me. 
"All ofus seniors must set an example for the rest of the team.'' 
With Jamieson as an example, the future ofNotre Dame baseball is in good hands. 

are the two fastest on the team.'' 
Jim Montagano appears to be the leading candidate to assume Voellinger's position behind the plate. Montagano, batted . 314 his freshman season but dropped to .233 his so­phomore year. The senior receiver sat out last season with 'a serious facial injury requiring surgery. If he can regain the hitting form ofhis freshman season it will give the Irish yet another stick in their all ready potent attack. 
Junior Tim Ambrey and sophomort• 
Phil Dingle will split duty behinJ 
Montagano. 
The infield is still unsettled, ac· cording to Gallo, but junior Henry v.tlenzuela should see plenty ofaction at first base after hitcing .308 and .26H his first two seasons. Junior Charlie Tash will play somewhere, probably second or shortstop. Tash stepped in last year and hit .354 in the lcad·off position. 
Others vying for positions in the infield include sophomore Rick Cryst, and juniors Jerry Scanlan, Scott Siler and Tim Prister. 
"There will be a lot ofcompetition," Gallo said. "And the team knows it." 
The pitching staff,considered the wc:l k spot of last year's team, recorded a team I•.RA of 4.50. Gallo does feel confident that he had a good one in senior Mike Deasey, who was 6-2 last year with .t 2. F> I,RA. 
I>casey willlw h<tcked in the rotation hv senor Rob Bartlett and juniors Byran S1:1ith and Marty Vuono. All three owned 4-1 records last spring. \ Gallo·~ two newest recruits are pitchers M.trk Clementz from ldkhart, Ind. uHl Robert Hickey from Minnctollk, Minn. 
"Hickey is big (6-3, 185) and raw," (;allo s;t,tl. "While Clementz has an excelk~nt curv'-'." 
The fall season is not officially recognized by the National Collegiate Athletic Association. 
"It is an evaluation thing," Gallo said. "We'll try different line-ups, batting orders, double play combi­»nations, but we still want to keep the winning going." 
Gallo's assistant coaches are Ray Lentych, in his fifth-year, and graduate student Tom Handrich, who pitched last year for the Irish. 

Gallo replaces Kelly as coach, stresses fundamentals to club 
by nave l rUJifl Sports Wrzter 
This fall Larry Gallo replaces Tom Kelly, who compiled a 88-102-1 record in his five seasons at the Irish helm. 
The Irish, 29-8 under Kelly last spring, tallied the most victories ever bv an Irish baseball team and its best win~ing per­centage since 19%. Just prior to the beginning of the record-book season Kelly announced his resignation. 
"Itsa case ofbeing in the right place at the right time," Gallo says. "I feel fortunate to be here. I have to feel honored and lucky. "Coach Kelly did a lot for the program. Each year there was improvement I just hope to keep the winning tradition going." 
The new coach hopse to concentrate on the fundamentals while keeping the program essentially the same. 
''I'm a stickler on fundamentals," Gallo says. "I believe that a team with average talent that can execute well can play with a team with great talent." 
Gallo came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1979 as a volunteer coach after being assistant at the University of Rhode Island since 1974. "The kids take a lot of pride, genuine pride, in the school," Gallo says. "They feel a lot for the school. That's is something a lot ofother schools don't have.'' 

Some of this spirit Gallo has noticed has earned over to the team. "They arc a really close group," Gallo says. "They work hard together It's part ofthe whole educational experience." 
During the summer months, Gallo coaches in the Cape Cod Baseball League, comprised of college baseball players· f~om all over the United States, including numerous players in the latest free-agent d;aft. · 
Gallo was a three-year m an as letter­man as a catcher and first baseman at Rhode Island during his undergraduate days and was named to the all-Yankee Conference teams in 1972 and 1973. 
In high school, Gallo starred as a four­sport athlete at Classical High School in Providence, R.I., and was selected as a member of the U.S. People baseball squad that toured through-out South and Central America and the Carribbean. 
The Observer Friday,_September 12, 1980 -page 14 


The One and Only Tony's Shoe ~~~~wntown Easy to find s ~~ Ill West Jefferson ­~ Open 6 days a week ~ 8-5 We sell boots and mocassins  


r ,' 
f 
' 
...Cross 

[continued from page 16] 
in light of the statistics they've compiled. 
The two wins have come against Marquette, 2-1, and the University of Missouri-St. Louis, 3-0. Neither school carries the reputation of bein~ a soccer power. Their losses have come at the hands of the University of Milwaukee-Wisconsin, 1-0, and the University of Connecticut 2-0. With a game against Cleve­land State tonight, Billikin coad Harry Keough, is a bit concern­ed about his team's performance to date. 
One of the reasons we're only 2-2 is because we haven't been able to score goals,'' explained Keough. St. Louis has been able to score only five goals in four games and Keough thinks this offensive inconsistancy could be­come a problem if it continues. 
"We should be playing bet­ter/' commented Keough, "but injuries have been a problem for us.'' One player nagged by injuries all season is forward, Steve Sullivan, the Billikin's most proficient scorer. He has managed two of his team's five goals in four games and Keough thinks this offensive inconsistan­cy could become a problem if it continues. 
"We should be playingbet­ter" commented Keough, "but injuries have been a problem for lis." One player, nagged by injuries all season is forward, .Steve Sullivan, the Billikins' most proficient scorer. He has managed two of his team's five goals but may not be at full strength for Sunday's game. 
"I want to stress that we are 
not taking Notre Dame lightly," 
emphasized Keough. ''Even 
though they haven't been a 
varsity team that long, we are 
fullx aware of Notre J?ame' s 
reputation for excellence m ath­
letics and we expect that their 
soccer team will be representa­
tive of that excellence. 
Injuries may be a problem for the Irish as well wtth fullback ] im Stein, halfback Bill Murphy and forward Mike Mai all quest­ionable at this writing. Still, Hunter is optimistic about his team's chances in what might be the most important game in its history. "I think we're playing well, we have a good attitude and we're ready to play St. Louis," maintains Hunter. "There's no doubt about the importance of this game to us. I 





ESSEX GROUP 
Involved in DESIGN, DEVELOPMENT, and MANUFACTURING of a 
wide variety of electrical wire and cable products for appliance, 
construction, utility, and communications industries. 
SEEKING: B.S.E.E./B.S.I.E./B.S.M.E. 
--INTERVIEWING HERE: _F_ri_d_a=...;y,:_O_c_t._a_rd_._---------­

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES
Please check with your placement office for more information. 
ESSEX GROUP 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER, M/FIHN 
think the team knows this and 
hopefully, they'll be able to respond to the challenge." 
In which case the Notre Dame 
soccer  team  will  finally  cross  
"the line."  
SOCCER  NOTES-Sunday's  

game at St. Louis will be broadcast live by WSND-AM 640 beginning at 2 p.m. 

, , , Coach 
· 
[continued from page 16] 
igan, Murphy summed up her teams performance and spec­ulated on some seasonal goals. 
'''It's rather difficult for me not to be optomistic after winning four out of five games Tuesday night. I think we'll be able to rely on our bench strength which becomes extremely im­portant as the season pro­gresses. We play nearly forty matches this year and depth will be essential. As for goals it's a little difficult to estimate the number of victories but a placement in the state tourna­ment would be extremely satisfy­ing," she concluded. 
&x:cergames needreferees 
The Non-varsl.ty Athletics Of­fice has announced that it is in need of students to referee interhall men's and women's soccer ~ames. Please call 7185 for detatls. 
Irish men rank 
highin APstats 
(AP)-After one game in the 1980 college football season, Notre Dame's Phil Carter is ninth in the nation in rushing, Mike Courey is 13th in total offense andJim Stone is fourth in kickoff returns; according to the weekly NCAA statistics released 
· yesterday. Carter, a sophomore halfback from Takoma, Wash., rushed 29 times for 142 yards against the visiting Boilermakers. Courey, a senior quarterback from Sioux Citv, Iowa, rushed for 59 yards and passed for another 151 for a 210-yard total. Stone, a native of Seattle, Wash., returned three kickoffs for 105 yards averaging 3 5 yards per runbaL ;;, Purdue's Scott C npbell, who started ar quarterback in place of the injuH~d Mark Herrmann, is 16th in the nation in passing efficiency going into Saturday's Big Ten opener at Wisconsin. The Boilermaker freshman completed 17 of 20 passes for 178 yards against the Irish. Purdue's Dave Young caught six of those passes for an eighth place tie in the NCAA statistics. In team stats, Notre Dame is fifth in kickoff returns, seventh in rushing defense and 13th in total defense. Following last weekend's con­test, the Boilermakers dropped from ninth to 20th in the Associated Press' college poll. Notre Dame moved from 11th to seventh. 


Friday, September 12, 1980 -page tS
The Observer 

-


Williams leads Tat11p3 Bay Interhall over L.A. Rams,l0-9 
CO-REC WA'IER.POLO 

TAMPA, Fla. (AP)-Quar-Angeles 11, giving the Bucs a 10:00 1be Lust-Bombs v. Jean
terback Doug Williams capped 41-yard gain. 
Euch .

a 62-yard dnve by divin_g over The late touchdown offset 10:4; The Floating Pengums v.
from one yard out With 57 three field goals by Frank Pam Late . .
seconds remaining last night to Corral, who equalled h1s perfor· 11:20 The Flounders v. Mikelead the Tampa Bay Buccaneers mance of last season when he Fortkort ,to a 10-9 victory over the Los accounted for all the scoring in 
12:00 Gus' Grill v. R_oemer s

Angeles Rams. . the championship game. He NARC s9uad swims agam Williams set up h1s own booted a 43-yards in the s~cond 12:40 Wtnner of Gus and Roe­game-tying touchdo_wn: follow-_ period, added a 32-yarde~ In the mer v. The Sperm Whales ed by Garo Yep~em1an s gaf!le· third and a 27-yarder m the 1:20 Barb Bower v. Bitten but
winning conversiOn, by runmng final period. 
not Beaten over Ran defenders Jack Yo-The Bucs, 2-0, were unable to 2:00 The Fighting Piranhas v.

ungblood and Johnnie Johnson generate much offense against The Beached Whales for a 10-yard gain to put the ball a Los Angeles defense that. had 2:40 John Keitel v. The Walers on the one. been shredded for 494 yards in 3:20 The Wild Water WombatsThe Bucs, atoning for a 9·0 a 41-20 op~n!ng-season loss to v. Dave Dieboldshutout at the hands _of t~e the Detroit Lions. 
1 4:00 Kelly Wheaton v. The Su~sRams in the NFL champlOnshl~ The Tampa Bay defense en­4:40 Mike Duplessie v. Austen s game las_t season, benefitte tered the game ranked first in Aquamenfrom an mrerference call afta· ' total defense having allowed 5:20 The Whales v. The Swamp
inst R~ s£fetyd lvo7h Su_~-onlyl28yard~ina17-12victory DwellersSully mtere ere WI h wLoles 1over Cincinnati last Sunday 
receiver Kevin House at t e 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00 p.m. , two dars prior to the Issue In which the ad is run. Tht Observtr office wll accept classlfleds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All

Classifieds 
classifleds must be pre-paid, either In person or through the mall. 
LOST: A largo turquoise frog ring In tho WANTED 2 MUSICIANS, ONE TRUMPET AND interested please call Anita at 4-1­
HELP! Young lass Is In desperate search ol
llotices 

HELPI Young lass Is In desperate search·of 4~80.
Engineering Audllonum on Tuesday night. I ONE TROMBONE TO PLAY IN AJAZZROCK 
Alabama Hcl<ers. Coli Bertha, 3845. 333 Alabama Hcl<oiS. Coli Bertha, 31145. 333 FUND Student loans 
gono hove this ring bacl<. Rivet. II round GROUP. ALSO WANTED ONE FEMAlE please call 277-4784. \-OOAI.IST. IF INTERESTED CAll TED AT GOOD BYh bVbRYBODY!I Your
Interest. Due In Will pay almost anything Forlwo Michigan 
HELP! Young tass Is In desperate search ol ad manager emeritus 8257, OR tUIS AT 3045.
wall. Open M·F 11:30-G.A. Tickets. 283-1195 Rich. 
Alabama HckoiS. Coli Bertha, 3845. 333 
12:30 In LaFor1une Basement. 

DESPERATELY NEED MICHIGAN TIX CA:.l 
hD & DANNY--Good luck to­
Need six student or G.A. Michigan tickets.

For Sale 
SOB 1606 night and on Sunday against St.
GERMANY. Study-tour lor 3 semester hours Con be separated. Coli Lany -1049 
Louis. GO IRISH! Play your gamePUrdue history credit, May17-June5, 1961. 1967 Oldsmobile 86 lour door. power, air, NEEDED: One GA and one Student ticket Irish and show them who's the best! 

~pllcattons due October 10. Wrffe G.R. good condttton. $550 or best oller. Phone Will Pay Through Nose lor TWo Michigan Need six student or GA Michigan tickets.
lor the Michigan game. Coli Pal Doran at
Molll, History. PUrdue. Wesm Lalayeno. 2764 Tickers Coli '4375 Con be separated. Colt Lany-1049 THE AMAZING KRhSKIN Rb­
283-840174907 TURNSIIII!I

lor sate 1 michigan go colt 1547 oner Need 1 Michigan siudent Ticket. Good URGENTLY NEED G.A. llckeiS lor Army
WANTED o copy ol Construcllon ­
West Side TV, 2604 S. Michigan Sl. • 25'l!. 10:30 pm Money. Coli nm. 1219 SJ~me. Colt Jim al1412.
Principles, Materials, and Methods by Olin DANNY MCCURRlh-5'10, HO lbs,
discount to students. we senr1co all make 

ef. al. ASAP. 1 need II for a class. coli grad student, from Upper St. Cloi~c,
TV1ond stereos. s10 service caH. Freeplcl<­FOR SALE: AKC black great done, 14-mas.­URGENTLY NEED GA lickiiiS lar Army Desperately ne&d Michigan G.A. Hckels.
6903 -Deirdre. Pa... Go Irish! ED O'MALLbY-6 2,
up and delivery. We sell used TV1. 234-old, mole, call 2811 ask lor Brenda. !J!me. Colt Jim at 1412. Will pay. Colt Dick 1224 
170 lbs, junior, from Massapequa
2-400. Open dolly 10-6. Sal. 10-3. 
Park, NY...Go Irish!
Desperately need Michigan GA HckeiS. 

TRADE OR BUY 3 GA'S. I have 3 GA's lor Air BIKE CLUB! ANYONE INTERESTED IN WIN pay. Colt Dlcl< 1224
For Sale: EXIra large catdspot relrtgerater. 
Force. Want 3 lar any other home game. ANY ONE INTERbSTED IN
Tickets

Perlecllor donn. $95.00 Coli 7443
RIDES, DINNERS, AND FUN CALL ANNE OR 

SUe 4992. PLAYING TABU ThNNIS (PINGKIM AT 277-4-407. TRADE OR BUY 3 GA'S. ll)ave 3 GA's lor Air
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS. 
PONG) CALL DAVb 233-~6,8.

For sole pair Fisher XP-95 lour way Force. Want 3 lor any other home game.
Men's $35 • $85 and up. Free House Colla. Desperately need one or lwo Michigan tlx.
speakers call Rick 1761
SENIORS -Happy Hour 01 Fa! Wally's sue 4992. Student or GA. Mark 8363.
255-2-402 . Miss C. O'Brien,Friday, 3:30-6:30 $2 Pitchers 10 required. 
·It's true that mice play when the cat 

GAS SAVERI 25 mpg In town. 1976 
1need 1w0 Hcl<ehl to the Michigan game­Desperotely need one or lwo Michigan llx. Willing to pay big $tor 6-10 Mich. fix. Colt 
Chevette 4-Speed. No Rust. Snow Hres. gudont or GA. Mark 8363. is away... Well, the cot Is gone-so
Sieve of 8907.

.wfH pay $25 each. Please call Mall of 255­
enjoy your weekend of privacy! MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student lOans 7001. (And don't do anything the cot $1900. Coil 282-1805 01 864-1414 lo 
lest drive. Willing lo pay big $lor 6-10 Mlc;h. llx. Coli HELP! SENIOR NEEDS TO ENTERTAIN
$20-$200. One percent Interest. Due In wouldn't dol) 
Steve at 8907.

one month. one day wall. Open M·F 11 :30· t lor 2 Michigan GA Tile Coli 4803 SMC PARENTS AND FRIENDS FOR ONE LAST 
FOR SALE: Technics Sl-20 turntable and/or 
WEEKEND UNDER THE GOLDEN DOME!
12:30 In LaFortune Basement. 
Hats off tonight??? Yea! Yeo! RightPioneer Cenlnlx RH-80 8-h'acll tope deck. 

HELP! SENIOR NEEDS TO ENTERTAIN

WANTED 2 MUSICIANS, ONE TRUMPET AND NEED AS MANY GA TICKETS TO THE 
---------now-right here ... 
Best oller. lynn 3697. 
PARENTS AND FRIENDS FOR ONE LAST MICHIGAN GAME AS POSSIBLE. CAll DIANE WEEKEND UNDER THE GOLOfN DOMEI AT 6732. 
GERMANY~Ii""c!V-rour 101 3 semester hours ONE TROMBONE TO PLAY IN AJAZZROCK 
ST. MARY'S COLLEGE SAPB prnfta..."Till

PUrdue hlsiOiy Clldll, May17-June5, 1961. GROUP. ALSO WANTED ONE FEMALE
REFRIGERATOR: 12 cu II holds pony kegs; Emply Keg, H Opening Flldoy, Sljnmlllf
NEED AS MANY GA TICKETS TO THE

~pllcaHons due Oclober 10. Write G.R. VOCAliST. IF INTERESTED CAll TED AT
smolllreezer space. $25.287-1911 oner MICHIGAN GAME AS POSSIBLE. CAll DIANE 12th ll'om 8 p.m. Hill a.m. ff88 amtllllan.
Mork, History, PUrdue, WeS111 Lalayene, 8257, OR LUIS AT 3045. Need MICHIGAN Student and GA Hx ­74907 4. AT 6732. PLEASE call Mary Pol at 8091 Rne food Clod mUIIc. 
NEEDED: RIDE TO CLEVELAND ON FRIDAY
--1967 Oldlmoblle 86 lour door. power. olr, Need MICHIGAN Slu<lenl and G.A. DANCE! II Wonllo do II? Olgonlzaltollol
wtllts.detv, l604 S.-MichiganSt. -25'l!. SEPT. 12. PLEASE CALL TOM AT 1652. llr • SOPHOMORE CLASS LOTTERY FOR M.S.U. 
good candiHon. $550 or best oller. Phone PLEASE call Mary Pal 01 8091 Meeting Thullday. 51p1 11. 7pm rm 243
TICKETS 7:00 MONDAY SEPT. 22 STEPAN
discount to students. We service all make 

2764 Lyons or call Anllllo 7921 ,
CENTER BRING YOUR 1.0. up and delivery. We sell used TV1. 234-80B 1606 SOPHOMORE CLASS LOTTERY FOR M.S.U. -------:--:-----:-:-:-::-:-:--=--­ATTENTION SOUTHERN CALIFORNIANS: 2400. Open dolly 10-6, Sal. 10-3. 
lV1 and Slereos. S 1 0 service colt. Free plcl<­DESPERATELY NEED MICHIGAN TIX CALL ' 
For Rent 
TICKETS 7:00 MONDAY SEPT. 22 STEPAN Desparately need 2 GA's lor MICH call Mary There wiN be on organlzmlonal meellng 111111 NEEDED: One G.A. and one Student Hekel CENTER BRING YOUR 1.0. 4-l-4494 Thlnday night at 7:00 In lilt La Follune BIKE CLUB! ANYONE INTERESTED IN lor the Michigan game. Coli Pal Doran at -----------­
ROOMS $45 MO. NEAR 233·1329. Lillie TlleoferiOIIhtSa. Col Club of N.D. we Desperately need 2 GA's lor MICH call Mary BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN woolS to be adarner
RIDES, DINNERS, AND FUN CALL ANNE OR 283-8401 hope 1o '"all ol you lhel'l. KIM AT 277-4-407. 
FOR RENT: uQiy Duckling Rent-A-Cor. 4-1-4494 needs TIX FOR MICHIGAN mega $$$ CAlL Priced from $7.95 a day and seven cents a Greg 1857 or 1855 Dale lollery lor QUAD FORMAL Jonlghl on
WANTED a copy ol Conshuctlon -Prin­
mila. Phone 255-2323 lor reservations. BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN woolS to be adarner 1118 quod at 11.
DuefOProoramming dmicuifi8s-SECOND ciples. Materials, and Methods by Olin et. al. 
needs TIX FOR MICHIGAN mega $$$ CAll 

Need Mich. nx. G.A. or Student. Coli Steve For Rent: Ugly Duckling Rent-a-Cor Frl­Greg1857 011655 3549. ARB YOU LARGE?, MALB?, AND 
CITY will NOT be pellormlng on September N>AP. 1need tt lor a class. call 6903 ­
11 as originally publlllhed. Walch lor Deirdre. 
noon -Monday-noon 29.95 w/ 150 Free GORGEOUS? TIH11 yo•'" IIJIJ.I IIJI
SECOND CITY's return lo SMC second 

sem811er. Miles Phone 255-2323 lor reservations Need Mich. Tlx. G.A. or Student. Coli Steve Need many G. A. or student llcl<ellllor Mich. ,,.,/! C1111 A11#11 111 41-4380 for f•rtlwr 
NEED lWO GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAME 3549. ood Miami games. Coli Tom, Dan, or Joe at tkui/s, 1111Jyo11 co11/J10011 bo1111C1for "Tht FOR RENT: Private 2-bedroom bungalow. 'CEPT ARMY CALL DAN 1621 4540. BIII/Jiy Kif{, .. 
----------~---,-~-­
Ulltttlos not Included. Single person pre­Need many G. A. 01 student llckeiiiOI M~.
Lost & Found 
Kdgy Sullivan ­

lulled or legal studeniS. Coli 288-0955. MUST HAVE: TWO MICHIGAN GA TICKETS. and Miami games. can Tom, Don, or Joe at 2 NO Alums NO Bound or Bust For Minced Lost: PrescrlpHon sunglasses-black MONEY NO OBJECT. CALL 277-3575. "M" Wolverine Money No Object call Bob
4540. . Without a doubt, you are the bes• sporuwriter this side of St. Mary's!
lramea. bloc!< case. can 284-4580 Leave "2 room opt. $50.00 month. Near. 3244 message. H. Hudson. SS TICKETS $$ 2331329" Rllhy rich alumnus wishes GA Mlch llx. can 
MUST HAVE: TWO MICHIGAN GA TICKETS. (Not just because you're the only MONEY NO OBJECT. CALL 277-3575. sportwriter this side ofSt. Mary's ­
09105180 SS 09108180 $$ 09109180 277-8853 oller 5. desperately need one student llckel to 
Izod foreverll) 

SS 09/10/80 $$ 09111/60 SS 09 SpQclous 2bdrm Apt. Furnished MUST RENT michigan game...lor o friend from vo. call 12/60 ss 09/15/80 $$ 09/16/60 $$ Coli Anytime 232-0904 Desperate need or Michigan llx. Please call bob 01 1506
Rllhy rich alumnus wishes GA Mlch llx. Coli Love, Your preppie frJend Marga 277-6853 onor 5. Leavitt and the 'Gator Gonzos
09117180 SS 09/18/80 SS 09119/80 Steen at 8042. Will pay money. Leprechaun will pay a polo' gold lor Mich. WILL TRADE 2 MICH G.A. TIX FOR MEGA
ROOMS $45 MO. NEAR 233-1329. Dear Lisa­
'-Desperate need of Michigan llx. Please call ----~~~~~~;-­Helene at 6116. 
nx con Jim-8583 Need lwo GA Hx lor Mich. Will pay $$. Coli ARMY G.A. TIX. 1222 
Steen at 8042. Will pay money. Many apologies for the state ofthe FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Cor. 
room in the past few eons. I wHI

LOST: GOLD JULES-JERGAN WATCH ON I WANT TO BUY ONE STUDENT OR G.A.
Priced rram $7.95 a day and seven coolS o 
Need lwo GA ttx lor Mich. Will pay SS. Coli make It up to you in countless ways.mile. Phone 255-2323 lor reservollons. Helene al6116. Never forget-the Pink Panther 
N.D. CAMPUS. IF FOUND CAU 1526 Need Michigan tickets. Coli Rolph at 277-TICKET TO MICHIGAN GAME. CALL SCOTT AT 
REWARD 6561. 6702. 
has got it up for you. Love and 

LOST: GOLD CROSS PEN THURS 9-4 For Rent: Spacious one-bedroom apart­Need 2 MICHIGAN GA's Will TRADE 2 Need Michigan llckets. Call Ralph at 277-1NEED ARIZONA AWAY GAME GA'S 8537 Platonic regards, Marga 
ment Iorge enough lor 2-3. Enclosed porch 6561. •
BETWEEN FACULTY LOT & LAFORTUNE OR Michigan Stale GA's ( cash). Please call JIM
and garage. 160 plus uHIIIIes. Easy walking 
]. CONSIDINE, Thanx for the T.

IN LAFORTUNE OR HAYES-HEALY. SENT­Sheila 41-4421
distance to campus. Contact Ron at Need 2 MICHIGAN GA's -Will TRADE 2 Deb P.S. To find this message, look
IMENTAl VALUE. REWARD! CALL BRIEN GRANDPARENTS MAKING FINAL PILGRI­PandOia's Books 233-2342. Michigan Slate GA's ( cash). Please call in THIS year's paper! 
233-6417 DESPERATELY NEED FOUR GA MICHIGAN MAGE TO CAMPUS. DESPERATE FOR 2 GA ----TICKETS. PLEASE! CALL DAMIAN, 1149. MICH. TIX. CAll STEVE AT 3579.
Sheila 41-4421 For Rent: Ugly Ducl<llng Rent-a-Cor Frl· harry buffaloes are not just for
LOST:-A kJrge -turquoise frog ring In the 

noon • Monday-noon 29.95 w/ 150 Free breakfast anymore! 
DESPERATELY NEED FOUR GA MICHIGAN Miles Phone 255-2323 lor reservollons
Engineering Audnortum on Tuesday night. I Need Mich. Tlx. G.A. or Student. Joe 1142 
TICKETS, PLEASE! CALL DAMIAN, 1149.

gono hove this ring back. Rivet. II round Mucha Dinero SSS ----------~-­
Personals 
First Annual "Harry Buffalo Bash"ploose call 277-4784. 

FOR RENT: Private 2-bedroom bungalow. 
Need Mich. Tlx. G.A. or Student. Joe 1142 Fri. 9:00 4-south Howard Ail
NEEDED: 2 or 3 GA ttckeiS lor Mlch game. ST. MARY'S COLLEGE SAPB presenls..."The
Utllttles not Included. Single person pre­ND/SMC Girls Invited. 
Mucha Dinero SS$ lulled or legal studeniS. Coli 288-0955.
lost: a wallet on tho night rf tho purdue Willing to pay very high price II Colt (SMC)· Empty Keg." Opening Friday, September 
game. The owner Is pteose contact him at 5431 up to Sept. 19. $$$$$$$ 12th from 6 p.m. 11111 a.m. Free admission.
NEEDED: 2 or 3 GA Hckollllor Mlch game. ROD THANKS SO MUCH FOR A
287-0864. Ane load and music.
"2 room opt. $50.00 month, Near. Witting to pay very high priceII Colt (SMC) FANTASTIC DINNER. HAPPY
I NEED 2 TO 6 G.A. MICHIGAN TICKETS FOR
I.Dsl: Prescrlpllon sunglasses-black ----------­
2331329" 5431 up to Sept. 19. $$$$$$$ 20TH! SANDY
VISITING RELATIVES. CAll PERRY AT 1419. ARE YOU LARGE?, MALE?, AND
!tomes. block case. Coli 284-4580 Leave message. H. Hudson. 

GORGEOUS? Then you're wlu.r 111e
I NEED 2 TO 6 G.A. MICHIGAN TICKETS FOR The "Empty Keg" needa comedians
leprechaun Will pay a pot o' gold lor Mich. neeJ! Call Amla at 41-4380 for further nx call Jlm-8583 
VISITING RELATIVES. CAll PERRY AT 1419. and impressionists to perform. If
Jetaiii, andyou cou/Jsoon bouncefor "The 
LOST: GOLD JULES-JERGAN WATCH ON 
interested please 'coil Anita at 4--1­

Wanted 
Emp~y Keg.
N.D. CAMPUS. IF FOUND CAll 1526 

Leprechaun will pay a polo' gold lor Mich. 4~80.
DESPERATELY NEED ONE MICHIGAN

REWAR 0 -------------· -----­
INSTANT CASH PAID I'OR CLASS RINGS. Tlx call Jim-8583
STUDENT OR GA TICKET 

---First Annual "Harry Buffalo Bash" hey mike bennett, what's the deal?
~--~­

Mlln's $35 -$85 and up. Free House Colts. 
WILL PAY YOUR PRICE

LOST: GoLD CROSS PEN THURS 9-4 Fri. 9:00 4-south Howard All eab & johnson
255-2402 DESPERATELY NEED ONE MICHIGAN
CAll STEVE AT 277-7190. ND/SMC Girls invited. 
BETWEEN FACULTY LOT & LAFORTUNE OR 

STUDENT OR GA TICKET IN W'ORTuNE O,!l HAYES-HEALY. SENTI­
'II lor 2 Michigan GA Tlx Coli 4603 SMC WILL PAY YOUR PRICE ------------jeff & dave-irene is bock! con i
HELPI Young loss Is In desperate search or

MENTAL VALUE RE\YAAOI CALL BRIEN The "Empty Keg" needs comedians come to your practiCe next week?
CAll STEVE AT 277-7190. 

233-8417 Alabama HckoiS. Coli Bertha, ,31145. 333 and impressionists to perform. If 
r
-
Friday, September 12, 1980 -page 16
SI'Jirts Injury sidelines Gchy 

by Beth Huffman Sports &litor 
Due to an injury sustained in Saturday's 31-10 Notre Dame­Purdue classic, strong safety Steve Cichy will be sidelined for what was termed "an indefmite period of time,'' by University officials yesterday. 
Cichy, a junior from Fargo, N.D., suffers from a chipped vertebrae in the vicinity of his neck, ant injury incurred in the opening kick-off of the Irish win. An All-American honorable men­tion selection in 1979, Cichy handles the kick-off chores for the Irish. The 6-2, 215-pounder raced down the field fo1Jowing 

Murphy emphsizes attitude to Belle volleyballteam 
by Tim Prister Sports Wnter 
"We;re trying to promote a postive moral attitude,'' second-year coach Erin Murphy optimistically remarked about her Saint Mary's volleyball squad. 
Murphy has every right to be optomistic as she takes her youthful--yet experienced-­team to Battle Creek, Michigan this weekend for the seasonal opener against Southwestern Michigan College. 
''We gained some valuable experience last spring when we participated in a semi-pro lea­gue sponsored by the United States Volleyball Association," Murphy said. 
Her sqwad fmished third in the regional tourney at Ball State last April. Murphy also coached a Junior Olympic team this past summer. The partici­pation of various membvers of this years team has enhancec Murphy'~ optimism. 
Spearheading the Belles' attack-will be junior and soph­omore co-captains Terri Wal­ters and Marianne Viola, re­spectively. Walters returns this year for her second year as captain. 
''1 erri provides a steadying influence on her teammates," Murphy commended. "She handles responsibility well and is extremely capable of providin~ us with the kind of leadershtp necessary for a suc­cessful season. ' ' 
Complementing Walters at captain is the youthful yet talented Viola. • iMarianne was his kick-off to 'tackle Jimmy Smith. 

''I figured I was hurting prenx bad, but I wanted to wait until the game was over,'' said Cichy, who ended the game with a total of eight tackles. 
Cichy, who has decided to seek a second medical opinion at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., was informed by local doctors that he will be unable to play football for approximately three to four months, but the injury should heal well enought to allow him to return to duty next fall. 
"Steve's loss is a tremendous disappointment and crucial blow 
chosen captain not only for her obvious athletic ability but for her spirited enthusiasm. She has a knack for motivating her teammates and is an exemflary 
player. I hope that all o our 
younger players will pattern 
themselves after her,' "Murphy 
mused. 
In addition to Walters and 

Viola, coach Murphy is count­
ing heavily on ex-area high 
school standouts Amy Terry 
and Mary Beth Hosinski. · 
Terry, the Belles most 

valuable {'layer last year, led 
the team m most of the offen­
sive and defensive categories. 
according to Murphy, Terry has 
the ability to improve upon her 
MVP showing. 
As for Hosinski, coach 

Murphy expressed nothin~ but 
t>raise for her athletic abiltty. "Mary 3eth began practicing as a setter last February and has 
progressed tremendously. 
Even her teammates are 
astounded at the way she has 
picked up the position." 
Also expected to see a considerable amount of playing time are newcomers Mary Dempsey, Rosemary Whalen and Loret Haney. Dempsey transferred this year after spending a year at St. Mary's of Winona m Minnesota. Whalen was classified by coach Murphy as "a !>trong hitter with sound defensive •capabilites" and Haney as "an extremely knowledgable player gifted as a setter as well as. a hitter. " 
Following Tuesday night's scrimmage with soon-to-be opponent Southwestern Mich­
[continued on page 14) 

to the team," said Dan Devine, the Irish head coach. ''He has developed into one of the best strong safeties in the country. 
"Steve's a super youngster and we'lJ miss his leadership on the field, but his physical well­being comes first." 
Cichy, who logged the most time in the defensive backfield for any Irish player in 1979 and tallied 67 tackles along with two interceptions, will be sorely mis­sed in the Notre Dame second­ary. Leading candidates to as­sume Cichy's role are senior Tom DeSiato and sophomore Rod Bone. 
Injuries and disappointments are not new to the career ti Cichy. The consensus prep All­American, who is confined with a neck brace, was not expected to play in the 1979 campaign due to a weakened bone structure in his lower back. Cichy was given a medical OK just prior to the start of last year's 7-4 season. · Following an elbow injury in the Clemson game Cichy was · forced to miss the squad's trip to Japan for the Mirage Bowl game 
with Miami. Surgery for-that Strong saftey Steve Cichy will be sidelined indefinitely due to injury kept the business major an injury sustained in last week's 31-10 tromping ofPurdue by out of spring drills in 1980. the Irish. 
================-===================== 
In soccer 
Oossing 'the line' 

ST. LOUIS-You may fmd this hard to believe, but Notre Dame football wasn't always Notre Dame football. In fact, the Fighting Irish of old used to play their games in rag-tag uniforms, travel by bus and rarely sell out old Cartier Field. 
Until, that is they crossed "the line." That imaginary, yet very real point in their existence when they captured the public's fancy and established themselves as a big-time, honest-to­goodness, money-making venture. 
That day came in 1913 when Gus Dorais threw a few passes to Knute Rockne and the Irish beat the Army by a score that escapes me. All of a sudden, Notre Dame, that small Catholic school nestled somewhere between Detroit and Chicago, became Notre Dame that might football power, complete with wide awake echoes, shaken down thunder, and a bunch of sons marching onward to victory. 
The Notre Dame basketball program reached a similar point in its history on January 1, 1974 when Digger Phelps led his team to a 71-70 upset of UCLA. Before that game, Notre Dame had a reputably good basketball team with some pretty good players, but no real national following per se. Since then they've become the ''Irish Giant-killers" complete with radio and television networks, green socks and four straight wins at UCLA. 
And now it's Rich Hunter's turn. On Sunday afternoon at 2 p.m. he will lead his players right up to "the line" and hope like hell thye can kick a few soccer balls over it. For the Notre Dame soccer team, "the line" lies right across the goal mouth on the Washington University football field ~n St. Louis, Missouri. On Sunday, a cot,1ple guys 
-----------------------~~~~~~-----~~~~~ 
1980 Grid Picks 
Frank LaGrona ~ Sports Writer 
North Carolina at Texas Ted 

Tech by 1 Heels by 5 Tech by 3 Heels by 10 Tech by 6 
Syracuse at Ohio State 

Bucks by 30 Bucks by 20 Bucks by 21 Bucks by 1Z Bucks by 17 
Kentucky at Oklahoma 

Sooners by 17 Sooners by 9 Sooners by 15 Sooners by 14 Sooners by 10 
Boston College at Pittsburgh 

Pitt by 21 Pitt by 18 Pitt by 41 Pitt by 17 Pitt by 13 
Southern Cal at Tennessee 

Vols by 3 Trojans by 12 Trojans by 4 Trojans by 4 Vols by 1 
Houston at Arizona St. 

Cougars by 7 Cougars by 1C Cougars by 9 Cougars by 14 Cougars by 6 
Texas A & M at Georgia 

Dogs b'y 13 Dogs by 8 Dogs by 8 Dogs by 3 A & M lly 3 
Northwestern at Michigan 

Wolves by 3 Wolves by 18 Wolves by 3S' Wolves by 21 Wolves by 13 
Rutgers at Temple 

Owls 3 Owls b 1 ~wls by 1 Owls by 6 Rutgers by 7 
Frank LaGrotta 


from St. Louis University will be standing in front of that line, trying to make sure nothing, least of all the ball, cross it. 
If the St. Louis P.layers fail, their opponents from Notre Dame will be elevated to a position of hi_gh importance -like a top midwest ranking, lots of newspaper headlines and other neat junk like that. If, on the other hand (foot?) the Irish fail, not too much of consequence will occur. 
It's like this; no one expects Notre Dame to win. St. Loais is an established college soccer {'Ower with a weath of talent and a pretty fonrudible history. Notre Dame, however, has only had a varsity soccer team for three years. They, too, have some pretty good talent, but not much history to speak of. 
"We play teams like St. Louis and Penn State because it gives us a chance to face some great competition and hopefully it improves our chances for an NCAA playoff bid," explains Hunter. "We know they're good. We know they'11 be tough at home... 
"But we don't plan to go down there and give up, either." 
The Billikins have registerd a mediocre 2-2 record this season; a record even less impressive 
[~ontinued on pa~e 14) 
.. 
Bill Marquara Garv Grassev Sports Writer Sports Writer 

Heels by 4 Heels by 14 'Heels by 7 Heels by 4 Bucks by 16 Bucks by 24 Bucks by 30 Bucks by 21 Sooners by 19 Sooners by 10 Sooners by 17 Sooners by 17 Pitt by 26 Pitt by 19 :Pitt by 30 Pitt by 18 Vols by 2 Trojans by 9 Trojans by 9 Trojans by 8 Cougars by 6 Cougars by 12 Cougars by 1 7 Cougars by 6 Dogs by 8 Dogs by 9 Dogs by 3 Dogs by 3 Wolves bv 31 Wolves by 14 Wolves by 23 Wolves by 20 Owls bv 9 .Rutgers by 7 Rutgers by 3 Rutgers by ) 
~----------------~~~~~--~~~~--~~~~----~~~--~7~~-~77~8~----~~~~--~~~~---7-2 .778 7-2 .778 

·----------~~~ 
._________________________________ ----------------­





