
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
• • • Contraceptive debate -page 4 


VOLUME XV., NO. 35 an independenr srudenr newspaper serving notre dame and sainr mary's 'WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1980 

Respite Two weeks before Ottober break, a Notre Dame student takes private refuge at the Grotto. (Photo b:r Greg Maurer) 
N.D. warns of 'Rely' tampons 
by Mat:Y Fran Callahan Senior Staff Reporter 
University officials have launched a campaign in the resi­dence halls to warn women ofthe risk of Rely tampons, since the tampons were mass distributed to female students. 
Female undergrads received samples .of the tampons, en­closed in the complimentary "care packages" the Housing Department annually furnishes students at the fall semester's onset. 
Researchers have drawn a par­allel between the use of the Rely tampon and the incidence of toxic shock syndrome, but Proctor & Gamble, the company that manufactures the Rely produ'ct, has questioned the cor­relation. 
A company spokesman yes­terday commented, "Switching brands is not going to help. The studies indicate that tampons in 

Mock debate highlights issues 
by Earl Rix 
Students representing the three major presidential candi­dates debated the campaign is­sues before a small crowd last night at Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's. 
The candidates' positions on major policy issues were articu­
Rights Amendment, and abor­decrease in the social security tion. tax. 
Frank Tyghe, Anderson's rep­In addition some environmen­resentative and campus coordi­tal concerns "must be sacri­nator for the Anderson cam­ficed ... as in the use of unleaded paign, said that "we cannot pro­gasoline, and encouragement of duce our way out of the energy coal production." Tyghe said crisis. The oil inQustry can in­"the commitment to nuclear crease production by only one or 
(continued on page 3) 

two million barrels per day by general pose a danger to wo­men." Nevertheless, the com­pany began a massive Advertis­
ing campaign last week to recall their product. 
According to one physiciao., some element in ·the tampon is causing the normal bacteria on the skin to release toxin. Death can occur within hours. There is no known cure. 
Jim McDonnell, director of StudentActivities, said yesterday he assumed the warning that links the Rely tampon to toxic shock syndrome was a "consu­mer information thing." When told that the University's care pac~ages contained the tam­pons, he replied, "I was not aware of that. That Would change my opinion." 
McDonnell explained that University administrators simply order the complimentary pack­ages annually and are not aware of their contents from year to year. 
"The packages have been a­round for 15 or 20 years. I don't think anybody has been scrutini­zing them," McDonnell com­mented. He added that the Housing Department is respon­sible for distributing the care packages to the residence halls. McDonnell then called Fr. Michael Heppe.n, director of housing, to explain the situation. 
Heppen, who was aware of Rely's mass distribution on cam­pus, began a warning campaign by notifying hall rectors of dan­gerous nature of the product. Resident assistants in most wo­
men's dorms have taped notices 
and newspaper articles regarding 
Rdy's recall on bulletin boards 
and bathroom walls. 
A spokesman for the Book­
store said yesterday that the 
tampons have been taken off the 
shelf and ;;.re no longer heing 
sold. 
Timothy McDevitt, genl·ral counsel for the University, ex­plained yesterday exactly who is liable in a situation like Rely's. 
"Proctor & Gamble (the man­ufacturer) is responsible, but the case is now being litigated. They are saying there is absolutely no way they could have known that their product caused the syn drome." McDevitt added, how­ever, that lawsuits have been filed against the corporation on grounds that the manufacturer did not adequately test the tam­pon before marketing it. "They say they did, so that's why the case is now being litigated," McDevitt explained. 
He further commented that "a university or a supermarket or Hooke's drugstore" would never be liable for a recalled product if sued. "They would just call Proctor & Gamble to let them argue the case," he said. 
Women desiring a refund are asked to send the tampons along with the box to: Rely Product Refund, P.O. Box 500, ·Maple Plain, Minn., 55348. 
At present, spokesmen for the Infirmary, St. Joseph's and Memorial hospitals all say they have no patients undergoing treatment for toxic shock syn­drome. 



lated by Frank Tyghe, Mark 1990. We import 8 million bar­
Lynch, and Jim Murphy, who rels per day now." 
represented Anderson, Reagan The way to conserve, said 
and Carter respectively. Tyghe, is to adopt Anderson's 

Poll outlines sexual opinions 
Substantive policy differences 50-cent per gallon gasoline tax, 

emerged on the questions of and funnel that money back to 
energy, taxation, the Equal the public through a 50 percent 
By Tom jackman Executive News Editor 

*THE McNALLY POLL* 
United Way 
Of the 93 percent of students Are there any circumstances The Roman Catholic 
who expressed a preference, 62 under which you could ima­Church does not favor the 
percent ofall Notre Dame-Saint gine consenting to an abor­use ofcontraceptive devices.

Director terms drive a success 
Mary's students would not con­tion for your partner or Do you agree with the 
sent to an abortion for them­
yourself? 

Church on this issue? 
By David Sarphie 

selves or their partner under any circumstances, yet 65 percent do The annual United Way drive among Notre Dame students end 
not agree with the Catholic 62% 5%this week and was, according to student chairman Mike Sext< 
Church's stand on contracep­extremely successful, with 70% of students participating and a to 
tion, according to a poll con­of $8100 collected by United Way workers as of last evening. 
Yes 

Yes Sexton was especially pleased with the attitude of the studen 
ducted last week by the McNally 
Research Group for The Observer. 
-31% 

-28%
"Because this was the first year that we had asked two dollars ofevt 

The poll also found that 60 student, I was a bit worried about their reaction," he remarked. 
percent ofND-SMC women feel Undecided Undecidedheard few complaints, however." 
they are currently discriminated Sexton said that the success ofthe campaign was due, in part, tot 
against here, but only 23 percent 
·-8% 
Is% 
work of his assistants, Sean Digan, Joe Orie, and Jay Traverse.", 

of the men surveyed agreed, three put in a lot of time, as did BrotherJoe McTaggart, who help 
while 60 percent said women are direct the drive," Sexton noted. "I don't think the campaign wm 
not discriminated against. Simi­
Do you feel women are cur­Do you think Notre Damehave been nearly as successful without their efforts." 

larly, 58 percent of ND-SMC lrently discriminated against should provide proportion­Dillon Hall and Villa Angela had outstanding participation in t 
women feel that the University 
at Notre ·Dame? 

ately equal funds to women's 
1
program, with contributions from one hundred percent of th 
I

should provide proportionately 
athletic teams as it does toresidents. "I think most of the hal)s did very well," Sexton said. 
equal funds to women's athletic 
men's teams?
Sexton admitted that the approximate seventy percent particif 

teams, but 61 percent of ND tion was down slightly from the seventy-five percent participation 
Yes I--------------~~

men do not agree. 
32'1
60% Malelast year. "Last year was just a phenomenal year," Sexton pointed o The survey canvassed 120 stu­. 39% Female Yes"I didn't expect to reach that goal two years in a row." 

58%

dents from both campuses, sel­
Femak42%The drive was also suq:essful as a learning experience for the No· 
-ected scientifically, and has a Dame students. "I think everybody learned a little about what 
possible error margin of four 
60%actually going on in their community," Sexton stated. 

percent. . 
Male The charity drive involving faculty will continue through Octob 
Men and women students did No 33% NoTed Crovello, chairman of the faculty United Way campai! 
not split over the abortion issue 
51% Female • 54%reported that the $43,000 his staffhad collected was about two-thil 

[continued on page 4]
of their goal. 







News Brie~ 

c===~========~====================================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Skies cleared yesterday in the Gulf ofAlaska, giving firefighters hope of boarding the listing, firi!-ravaged cruise ship Prinsendam. The Coast Guard sought help from a civilian expert on ship fires, and said the flames mightbe fought while the vessel was under tow. All 53 3 passengers and crew were rescued after fire broke out Saturday, and the passengers were on the last legs of their journeys home yesterday. They were flown to Seattle overnight after an ordeal thatincluded up to 20 hours in lifeboats, and transfers by tanker and aircraft. Some passengers complained lifeboats were ill-equipped and lacked crew and provisions, charges denied yesterday by a spokesman for the ship's owner, Holland America Cruises. "There was an officer and crew in every lifeboat and every lifeboat was fully equipped with ration provisions and with flares and flashlights," said the spokesman, Joseph Scott of Manning, Selvage and Lee, the lines' public relations adviser. He said lifeboats "were lowered quite expertly" into the sea, "a difficult task ... without any injury whatsoever." "Every one of those lifeboats was provisioned," he said, "There'sa big protein ration, like biscuits and water. After you eat a couple ofounces of this biscuit, you feel like you've had a full meal."-AP 
Iraq and Iran yesterday intensified air attacks on each otlier' soil centers-the Iranian port ofAbadan and the Iraqi city ofKirkut. The United States and Britain reportedly warned Jordan that military aid to Iraq would invite Iran to retaliate and widen the war between the Persian Gulf neighbors. In a break inArab ranks, Syria accused the president oflraq ofbeing an "imperialist agent" who launched the war at the behest of the United States to diver• attention from the Arab struggle against Israel. Although both Iraq and Iran are Moslem nations, Iraq is Arab and Iran is non-Arab Persian. ­
AP 
There was a bitof excitement at Woman's Hospital in Jackson early yesterday. It's not every day that Carter, Reagan and Ford make appearances. Carter arrived first, a girl born to Debra Carter at 4 a.m. Seventeen minutes later, Teresa Reagan also gave birth toa girl. Then at6:22a.m., Donna Ford had a boy. And who would handle the delivery of the • Reagan baby? None other than Dr. Charles Bush.-AP 
The e:overnment's decision to 
dump thousaMs ofbarrels of radioactive waste into the sea off both coasts has formed a ~·radioactive dumping ring" around the United States, Rep. John Burton, D-Calif., told a congres­sional subcommittee that met yesterday in San Francisco. Burton, first in a series ofwitnesses, criticized the government's failure to keep adequate records on the dumping, which began in 1946 and continued until the early 1970s. "Various scientific groups are disputing the seriousness of the problem," he said, "and the federal agencies have added to the problem by not keeping complete records on the location and ingredients of the dumping." The largest dump is about 150 miles offthe Delaware coast, but the site that has caused the most furor is near the Farallon Islands, several inhospitable chunks of rock about 25 miles west ofSan Francisco. Some45,000 barrels were dumped there until the government outlawed the practice in 1972. About 100,000 barrels were dumped at about 50 sites, government records show. Some environmentalists, led by Dr. W.Jackson Davis ofthe University ofCalifornia at Santa Cruz, say radioactive material from the dump site offthe Farallons has entered edible fish and poses a "measurable health hazard." That is disputed by a number of scientists and other environ­mentalists who say the wastes present no hazard. All, however, advocate continued monitoring. Pressure from San Francisco Supervisor Quentin Kopp and supervisors from other California counties led the House subcommittee on environ­ment, energy and natural resources, chaired by Rep. Toby Moffett, D-Conn., to hold the hearing. Its purpose is to determine the extent of the dumping and its effect on the environment. -AP 
An Indiana speciallegislative committee on drug abuse is considering raising the taxes on alcoholic beverages by 15 cents per gallon and using the revenue to finance addiction services. The bill, which would generate $19.2 million for a treatment program run by the Department of Mental Health, was one offour measures reviewed yesterday by the panel. Sen. William Dunbar, R-Terre Haute, said the committee will meet later this month to work on the bills before recommending them for the 1981 Indiana General 
Assembly.-AP 
Sunny and warm today and tomorrow, clear and cool tonight and tomorrow night Highs today in the the low to mid 70s. Lows Wednesday night in the low to mid 40s. Highs Thursday in the upper 60s to low 70s. ~ AP 

Second in a series 
Reporter joins police on duty 
This article is the secondpartofaseries on police protection written for The Observer. 
By Rich Fischer 
We were the first car to 10-20 (reach the scene of a com­plaint). An elderly lady was found lying in the gravel of a driveway, her head cradled in the lap of a neighbor. Blood dripped from a gash on her forehead, across her face, and was smeared on the shirt of the man hoiding her. 
Someone had run out of the shadows, twisting her to the ground and grabbing her purse all in one motion. Her hip hurt-probably broken-as did her arm. She had no idea who hit her. 
An ambulance and an ad­ditional squad car made the scene soon after us, and we left the woman in their care to find the snatcher. We did;;_'t, of course. Although our response time was three minutes, it takes a snatcher only 30 seconds to run half a block, search the purse, keep the money, throw the purse into the weeds, and disappear into the night. 
We took the next dispatch that came over-a prowler was reported in a nearby neighbor­hood. We responded 'silent' until we were half a mile out, then took the rest of the distance without lights. As we rolled to a stop, Corbett growled '"It's not easy to sneak up on someone when your -­damn car squeaks." 
I got out of the car with him, as I had been doing all evening. I guess I was taking this call lightly because of the comic relief of the moment before, but I came back to reality with the soft, sharp 'flap' of Corbett drawing his . 38. While he searched the area, I never left his side. 
The midnight shift (10:30 p.m.-6:30a.m.) had a distinctly more relaxed character than the first one. By now the rain 

Wednesday ,.OLtober 8, 1980 -page 2 

had stopped, and it was turning colder. The incidents handled by the night shift were more community than crime re­lated-a loud party, two stal­led cars, and running a moped registration check. 
Between calls, Corporal Trenerry, my new 'partner', explained his approach to po­lice work. "If it's a crook, I'd rather catch him in the act than prevent him," he said. 
During our regular patrol, four youths were spotted sitting on a fence outside a town park. When _the squad car ap­proached them, they fled along the perimeter of the park. 
We followed them across the field in the black-and-white, and Officer Trenerry finally had to give chase on foot through some backyards. He caught one of the guys, and a back-up car apprehended a second fellow as he tried to drive away in a station wagon. , 
When the station wagon was examined, it was found to contain $350 worth of public street signs-STOP, YIELD, etc. In addition, a search of the youth , apprehended by Corporal Trenerry yielded a wrench and a pair of pliers. Examination of the fence 

Observer Notes --------------------, 
A headline which appeared in yesterday's Observer incorrectly implied that a sex scandal was taking place at BendixCorp. over the promotion ofan employee. The story did not state this, and we regret any misunderstanding due to the story's title. 
,--Needed: Assistant Night Editor~ for Thurs. nights Paid Position -late night Work For more info, call John at 8661 or 1947 
ELICI USF D··· 
.. • ATWHOLESALEPRICES 
Whether you're preparing for a luncheon before the game, a dinner after the game, or even an evening snack, you'll be~!lad you shopJle!l at Dick&Co. for the finest qualityand vanety meats. 
Select from ..... . 

Bratwurst Polish sausage Hamburger patties 
Steaks 

•••••••••and much more 


"Shopwhere the finest restaurants shop" 
709 North Niles Ave. South Bend, lnd· 
232-9927 fOne block north of AND coMIAHr, INC.Sunny Italy Restaurant 
showed that the sign on itwas in 
the process of being removed 
when we arrived. 
A third car on patrol some distance away apprehended a­nother suspect jogging towards the campus. When it was found that all three youths were ND students, they were taken downtown, and eventually re­leased into the custody ofNotre Dame security. 
Corporal Trenerry later ex­plained to me exactly how close the boys came to being ar­rested. "Possession of stolen property is a felony," he said. 
As a felony, it required that the youths stay in jail until Monday morning, when they would have been arraigned in court. The police were able, due to the circumstances of the case, to reduce the charge to conversion. Conversion is the appropriation of another's property for one's own use, and is only a misdemeanor. Whether any further legal action is taken depends on the prosecutor's office, which will review the preliminary report and respond with anything from issuing a warrant for ar­rest, to notifying Dean Roemer of the incident, to doing no­thing at all. 
\ . 






The Observer Wednesday, October 8, 1980 -page 3 



United States continues health research with Soviet Union 
by Marc Rosenwasser Associated Press Writer 

Moscow (AP)-The United States is pushing ahead on heart research with the Soviet Union, despite cutbacks in other joint scientific programs following the Soviet intervention in Afghanis­
tan. FOCUS
::::::::::!::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:::~:~:~~::::::8: 

Washington has almost 'com­pletely cut off collaboration with Moscow on agricultural and en­ergy development, including atomic energy. And cooperative work in such areas as ocean study, transportation and hous­ing planning has slowed signifi­cantly because of American dis­pleasure over the presence of Soviet forces in Afghanistan. 
But health programs-heart and cancer research among them -have been maintained, apparently because of their hu­manitarian value. A group of about 30 American heart special­ists e participated at the meeting in Moscow last week of the International Society for Heart Research. Three other smaller teams of American cardiologists are due in the Soviet capital before the end of October. 
Morgan, who heads one work­
ing group, said during a recent 
interview: "We've gotten the 
cooperation of a number of 
Soviet scientists, making good 
headway in their fields, to col­
laborate in joint research pro­
grams of benefit to both sides." 
Rep. Jenrette 
Congressman guilty in ABSCAM 
WASHINGTON (.AP) •• Rep. John W. Jenrette was convic­ted Tuescfay night of accepting a bribe from an FBI undercover agent, who said he represented two wealthy .Arabs needing special immtgration legislation. 
The jury also convicted John 
R. Stowe, a Richmond, Va. businessman, who was charged with aiding and abetting Jenrette in the bribery scheme. 
The jury of eight women and four men returned their ver­dicts in U.S. District Court after some four hours of deli­berations that began just after lunch. The verdict was an­nounced at 6:1) p.m. EDT. 
.After the jury foreman, Sylvia Parker, announced the verdicts, Jenrette, sitting at the defense table, bowed his head and sobbed with his hands covering his face. Stowe sat impassivery as he had during most of the five week trial. 
Jenrette's wife, Rita, dis­played no emotion, staring at the jurors from her seat in the ftrst row of the courtroom. 
Defense attorneys asked that the jury be polled . on the verdicts, and each juror re­sponded, "guilty," on each charge. Jenrette was convicted of one count of conspiracy to commit bribery and two counts of bribery. Stowe was convic­ted of one count of conspiracy and two counts of aiding and abetting bribery. 
Each man could face a maximum 3~ years in prison and thousands of dollars in fines. Sentencing will be .. 
(continued from page 1) 
energy must be to the same de­gree as the safeguards, and nu­clear energy cannot be increased until that time." 
Carter representative Jim Murphy, president of the Young Democrats, accused Anderson of catering to special interest groups, and of being"one of the most articulate supporters of the nuclear industry in Congress." 
Murphy claimed that Carter has reduced oil imports by 20 percent since 1977, and cited the windfall profits tax as a major accomplishment of Carter's en­ergy policy. Also mentioned were Carter's syn-fuel programs, his desire for safer nuclear pow­er, and his administration's dedi­cation to conservation. 
Mark Lynch, Reagans' repre­sentative, and spokesman for the college republican campaign, countered the Anderson and Carter energy programs by say­ing "We have to produce our way out of the energy crisis. 
scheduled later. 
Jenrette was the second member of Congress convicted as a result of the .Abscam investigation, in which FBI agents rosed as representa­tives o bo~us rich .Arabs needing immtgration bills. 
Re,P. Michael Myers was convtcted .August 30 in the ftrst .Abscam trial and on Oct. 2, he was expelled from the House by a vote of 376/30. 
Before the jurors began deli­berating, U.S. District Judge John Garrett Penn instructed them on the laws of conspiracy and bribery and on the legal defense of entrapment. 
Jenrette and Stowe claimed they were victims of entrap­ment, in which law enforce­ment officials induce or per­suade persons to commit un­lawful acts. 
Penn told the jury such inducement "may take many· forms ... including persuasion, fraudulent representations, threats, coercive tactics, har­assment, promises of reward, or pleas based on need, sym­pathy, or friendship. 
The jury spent more than a month listening to witnesses and watching FBI videotapes, as the government tried to show that Jenrette and Stowe split a s~o.ooo payoff from an undercover agent· posing as a representative of wealthy .Arabs. 
Jenrette testified last week, denying he accepted the bribe, which was offered in return for 
h.is _pro~ise ~o intr~duc~ spe­
ctal. tmmtgratton legtslauon for 
... Debate 
A less substantive discussion took place on the topics ofabor­tion and the ERA. 

For the record, Reagan is in favor of a constitutional amendment to ban abortion. 
Anderson's . representative, voiced his opinion by saying "a church can forbid it(abortion). A state should not force a woman to bear a child." 
Carter's representative avoi­ded the moral aspect ofthe issue, and explained his candidate's po­sition. "Carter is opposed to fed­eral funding of abortion, and is aJso opposed to a constitutional amendment to bann abortion," said Murphy. 
Murphy pointed out what he considered to be inconsistencies in Reagan's position. "Reagan signed a liberal California abor­tion law, although he now says he regrets it. His rhetoric does not always match his performance." Murphy then questioned why the Republicans guarded the rights of an unborn fetus but did not favor the ERA. 
the fictional .Arabs. 
He admits holding bribery discussions with the agents-­discussions captured on video and audio tape. But he contends the FBI has persecu­ted him for six years and lured him into the talks at a time he suffered from a severe drinking problem. 
Jenrette was also accused of soliciting a $12~,000 bribe from the undercover agent in return for Jenrette's promise to have Sen. Strom Thurmond, R/S.C, introduce immigration legisla­tion in the Senate. 
Jenrette admits taking _part in that videotaped discussion, but says he was only buying time because he beheved the 
agents  were  mobsters  who  
would kill him.  
Stowe did not testify.  His  

lawyer, Murray;anus, admit­ted Stowe picke up the bribe money last Dec. 6, but claimed Stowe was a delivery boy for Jenrette. 
He said Stowe met with the agents in hopes of getting the fictional .Arabs to finance his purchase of a failing munitions plant in Jenrette's district. The agents kept hammering at Stowe to introduce them to his friend, Jenrette, and he finally did so, Janus said. . 
The government based much of its case on the video and audio tapes, which show Jenrette and Stowe discussing the bribe Dec. 4, Stowe picking up the s~o.ooo in a paper bag Dec. 6, andJenrette and Stowe discussing the $12~,000 bribe in the ThurmondmatterJan. 7. 


Chips­Candy 
Pastries 
HERTZ 
ECONOMY FARES, 


WEEKENDS 
FROM $17.99 A DAY. 
Call234-3712 
These Economy raw;;, arl'  
Touring Rates, subject h'  
change without noticl'  
and non discountable.  
There are minimum day  
and advanc(•  
reservation  
f  requirements, and restrictions on when=  
'  and=wherecars 

must be returned. Gas is not included. Call ~ 
Hertz for details. . ® 
WHERE WIMNEIS RENT. 
III.HTI HI.NT'o I HHII'>I\NII ern II H llNI I AH'> 
Gums Meat Sticks Peanuts 
Dr. RobertJennings, chairman of the pathology department at Duke University and president of the heart conference that met here, added: "there's an awful lot we don't know. The agreements mean more people are working on these diseases together." 
Critics of the exchanges say the United States has given a lot more than it has received. 
Morgan, who supports the cooperation, acknowledges "At the beginning, the Soviets 'were at the starting point in basic heart research. But they got contacts in the West that allowed them to identify areas of research that 
were important and they were able to decide better where to spend their money." 
The Observer Wednesday, October 8, 1980 -page 4 



Last shot 

:I ..-tudmt IIJ!'J fl/(' mtltlrmd.rm11~y dr~y.r to wpture hir lrJJt shotofthisyear's u·rm/Jtg go// .rm.ro11 at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. (l'boto by HdC'II Odar) 
NEEDED: 


SMC DAY EDITOR 
onTuesdayandThu~day 
afternoons Paid $5.00 per day Call Mary at 2-8661 or 41-5754 



IMPORTANT 
Open Forum on New Constitution 
7:30 p.m. Wednesday 
•

1n Walsh Hall Come Find Out What It's About! 
Bishops debate Church's stance on use of contraceptives 
Vatican City (AP)-Roman in the church doctrine and that Catholic bishops discussing fami-they accept Pope Paul VI's 1968 ly issues here are sharply divided ,encyclical "Humanae Vitae" over the need for a reappraisal of which reiterated the church's the church's stand on birth con-opposition to all forms of birth trol, posing a potential dilemma · c_ontrol except the rhythm for Pope John Paul II. method of sexual abstinence. , Some cardinals and bishops But they are pressing for from Western and Third World greater "pastoral concern" and a countries have asked Pope John more sympathetic approach by Paul's first synod to examine the the Church to couples using problem of the Catholic who do banned birth control methods. not accept the church ban on As one Vatican analyst put it, the contraception. bishops want the Church to 
In most cases, the bishops , consider the use of contracep­made it clear that they are not tives as "a minor, pardonable pressing for any specific change offense and not a major crime." 
...Poll 

(continued.from page 1) 
as they did over the local sex discrimination issue. Only 29 percent of the men questioned, and 33 percent of the women, could conceive of any circum­stances under which an abortion would be allowable. However, only 27 percent of the men and 28 percent of the women survey­ed agreed with the Roman Catholic Church's ban on con­thtceptives, with an unusually large 11 percent of the women listed as undecided. 
On the issue ofproportionate funding of ·women's athletic teams, an issue magnified by the recent enforcement of HEW's Title IX, only 32 percent of the males polled believe that Notre Dame should provide equal funds, while 61 percent do not concur. 
The poll also asked whether students felt the University has taken a "responsible role in help­ing to alleviate the crime prob­lem" off campus, and an over­whelming 77 percent of the stu­dents surveyed replied that it did not. It was easily the biggest margin ofany ofthe responses in the poll, with only 16 percent supporting the University and eight percent undecided. 
Additionally, only 50 percent of students surveyed believe the boycott of Nestle's, Campbell's and Libby's products should be continued. Thirty-seven percent now oppose the boycotts, and 14 percent are undecided. · 
Approval ratings were also ob­tained from students on four dif­ferent student government branches at ND -the Campus Life Council, the Student Union, the Student Government, and the Board ofCommissioners. On both the CLC and the Board, more than 40 percent ofstudents questioned said they were not familiar with these bodies. The Student Union received the most favorable ratings, with 10 per­cent giving it a mark of "excel­lent," 63 percent "good" and 22 percent "fair." 
The Observer was not excluded from this evaluation-30 . per­cent of those surveyed feel the student paper does not ade­quately meet the needs of the ND-SMC student body. Sixty­four percent are satisfied with .The Observer, and seven percent 
are undecided. 
Students were also polled as to their preferences for the succes­sor to Dan Devine a& head foot­ball coach. Miami Dolphins coach Don Shula led the ballot­ing with 29 percent, with retired Dallas Cowboys quarterback Roger Staubach finishing second with 16 percent. Arkansas coach Lou Holtz was third with 14 percent, followed by unem­ployed pro coaches Hank Stram and John Madden, then college coaches Terry Donahue, Joe Restic, Lee Corso, George Welsh andJoe Yonto. 
Music Department introduces orchestra concert program 
The University ofNotre Dame Department of Music Concert Series will open Sunday with an "Introduction to the Orchestra" Concert program presented by the Notre Dame Orchestra. The 
. Orchestra, under tthe direction ofAdrian Bryttan, will present a 1 p.m. Children'sConcertanda 7 
p.m. Campus Concert in the 


POSTPONEmENT 
The reader's workshops Which had been schedule for October 12 and 15 have been POSTPONED. 
Residence Halls will receive advance notice of the rescheduled 
dates after fall break. 

campus

miniStry 
Archbishop John R. Quinn, calling for "a completely honest examination" of the issue, cited studies showing 76.5 percent of American Catholic women are using birth control and that 29 percent of AmeriCan Catholic priests believe contraception is immoral. 
The prelates favoring a reap­praisal, described by Pakistani Cardinal Joseph Cordeiro as being a minority in the more than 200 bishops, have run into a strong opposition led by conser­vative Italian cardinals in the Curia, or the Vatican's central administration. 

After Quinn spoke, Italian Cardinal Pericle F elici, prefect of the Vatcan's Supreme Tribunal, told the bishops: "there is no need of rediscussing it, no need to pay attention to statistics because statistics don't signify 
anything.  The  encyclical  is  
closed."  
The  sharp  division  poses  a  

difficult choit:e for the Polish­born pontiff who has criticized contraception, but has not ad­dressed himself to the need of finding pastoral guidelines for dealing with Catholics who ig­nore the church ban, said a Vatican-based prelate who asked that his name not be used. 
"It's going to be a hard one for the pope because Quinn and his supporters are taking a cue from Pope Paul himself who had spo­ken of the need to review his encyclical at a later time, and that was 12 years ago," the prelate said. 
"They are asking for a review because the doctrine has not ta­ken hold," he said. "The encycli­cal is authoritative but it's not one of those infallible doctrines and theoretically it could even be changed." · 
He said the best result the bishops seeking a reappraisal could hope for is a church admis­sion of a "schism between the doctrine and the reality" and a call for a more sympathetic pas­toral program. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium on tht 
Saint Mary's College campus. . This location has been changed ~ 
from Notre Dame's Washington 
Hall, where the concert was 
previously scheduled. . 

·Sunday's program, which will be narrated by Father Robert Griffin, will feature Prokopfiev's "Peter and the Wolf', the 2nd and 3rd movements of Tschaikowsky's Symphony no. 4, and Mussorgsky's "Night on Bald Mountain". 
Both concerts are open to the . 
public without charge. 



Amnesty -­International 

Amnesty International Group 4 3 will sponsor a movie and hold a general meeting this W ednes­day, Oct 8, in LaFortune Center at4: 30 p.m. The movie is entitled "Human Rights inSouthKorea" and will be shown at 4:30. After the movie Pro£ Gil Loescher will make a few short comments and will answer questions. Following this will be a very brief general meeting ofcurrent members and anyone wishing to become a member. The general public is invited to attend the movie. 

Wednesday, . October 8, 1980 -page 5


Editorials 
P.O.BoxQ 
ND not a 'no holds barred university' 
Dear Editor, 
May I offer a few thoughts concerning the "when is the university going to treat us like grown-ups" debate, referred to in Mr. Anthony Walton's editorial (Sept. 23). 
First of all, it occurs· to me that the truth of the situation is that "grown-up" is not something that happens to you over the night of your 18th birthday, or 21st either. It is a "becoming" and it takes time, experience, and is best accomplished with some wise guidance. When you are 30, I think you will look back and realize just how much you lacked at 18, 19 or 
21. 
One must also keep in mind that rules are made for whole groups of people. If it were otherwise, those few who truly are more mature and adult could expect more individual freedoms which would then be prudently used.However, in dealing with large numbers, various needs and stages ofdevelopment must be taken into consideration. In the end, some may find it too binding, still for others it may be more than they can prudently handle. But one is expected to bend to the good of the community, be it family, school, etc. 
One other point -Walton seems you incorrectly assume their lack outraged that the university should of defiance is apathy. assume its jurisdiction reaches to Allow me to close with a quote wherever the location of the Notre from one wiser than I:"At the time Dame formal dance happens to be. I it is administered, all discipline propose that it is reasonable to seems a cause for grief and not for assume that where its name and joy, but later it brings forth the fruit reputation are presented, the ofpeaceandjustice..."(Heb.l2:ll) university has obligations not only The truth is that rules are not to you as a student, but to us, the fetters to freedom but rather guides tuition-paying parents. Would this to Liberty and Happiness. not come under Ann Landers' name withheld standard advice that so long as one ------------­is under "the roof and respon­
sibility," one must abide by that The Observer welcomes establishment's rules made ac­cording to good conscience and letters. To be considered for values. publication, letters must be 
typed, double-spaced, and si­gned. To insure swift publicat-
Frankly, I doubt that most of the 
ion, the writer should include
student body would want a "no 
his or her phone number.
holds barred" university. Perhaps 

Job lovers are valuable ·· 
WASHINGTON -People who love their jobs-really Jove 
them and think of their paychecks as the least ofthe rewards-are 
as rare as they are valuable. 
But the other afternoon. when I was visiting Long Island for some 
reunions with old friends and haunts, I had two ofthem before me. 
They were teachers -my teachers, when I was in grammar school 
some 30 years before. 
At first, talking with Edna Ashley, now 80 and retired and who 
was my first-grade teacher, and Marye Picone, who taught me in the 
third, fourth, seventh, and eighth grades, was like looking out of a 
bay window into the past. A panorama of three decades spread out 
before us. 
We hadn't seen each other all these years, though I have 
remembered both women in the enduring images I formed of them 
;~~a child. 
At the front of the class, Mrs. Ashley was a maternal presence. 
She has children of her own -she told U!l"1.')n the opening day of 
school -and I remember feeling good about that. She would be as 
much a mother as a teacher, with the roles not being much different. 
She believed that each child had gifts of the mind and spirit 
waiting to be discovered in the schoolhouse. It was her calling to 
help this discovery ~appen. 
Mrs. Picone shared this view, though 33 years ago, when I was in 
the first class she taught, she was not much more than a schoolgirl 
her'lelf. She was out of college only a few months. 
Her idea of an exciting Saturday afternoon was to marshal her bouncing energies and gather about five or six neighborhood children to go into New York City to a museum in the morning and 
an afternoon at Madison Square Garden for a Knick game. She was telling us, like Mentor urging on-Telemachus, that a world was out there: Learn to tie your shoelaces and leap into it. 
After a sharing of stories and updates the other day, we began talking abOut the art of teaching. As one who believes that teachers are among the earth's most undervalued and overextended citizens, I tried to learn from both Mrs. Ashley and Mrs. Picone how they had avoided teacher burnout all this time. 
It was a topical question. Every September-and no exception this year-when teachers take to the picket lines in one city after another, I find myself wondering how they can absorb the foul treatment heaped on them. Instead ofhonoring teachers and freeing 
Ihmesbury 
"JJ.? HI, 7HISIS MIKE." 
\ 
Colman McCarthy~ 
them from school board hassling about salaries, curriculums and 
paperwork, we seem driven to give them as little support as 
possible-and then wonqer why our children aren't learning. ·· 
Mrs. Picone, who currently teaches in a junior high school, 
confessed that teaching was becoming harder lately. A few times, 
she has come close to burning out. She couldn't point to one lonr 
pressure and say that everything came from that. 
Perhaps it iso't even pressures at all, she seemed to be saying, but rather evaporations. She would try to touch a student's mind, only to tind less and less to grip. , 
The formlessness means that students show little intere,st not only about the traditional subjects like ,history and English, but even in learning about their own culture. Some of this, Mrs. Picone believed, was merely a reflection of the children's coming from homes where books and learning aren't valued. 
Except that that has always been the case: What's alarming now is that large numbers of the young are confident that they can wing it. They think they can forget learning how to tie their shoelaces. Just leap, the world can be bluffed. 
It was too pleasant and breezy a summer day to get into the heaviness ofstudent passivity. Besides. burnout was the question. 
Mrs. Picone's method of resistance was to keep her spirit of independence intact. A couple ofdays a year, when the bCII of the last period rings, she bolts for the door and tells everyone. that the workday is over: no afternoon faculty conferences, no meetings with the principal, no cleaning out her desk. It's time now to go to a museum or see how the Knicks are doing. 
Mrs. Ashley never burned out because she was too busy being fascinated by children. "I have always been an advocate of the individualized approach to learning; sbe told me, "both in the classroom and at home. I tried to have each child read to me alone for afewminutes each day ,just as Ispent alittle part ofthe day with each of my own children at· home.'' 
As the current teacher strikes plague the country and as teachers find themselves out ofjobs because of budget cutbacks, the life and times ofwomen like Edna Ashley and Marye Picone may seem too peaceful to be real. But if we looked closely, we would find that every school has two or three teachers like them ---exceptional educators whose kindly ways with the young are making all the difference. 
Colman McCartlly is a syndicated columnist who 1s occasst"ona/} 'l!ature.i on the Observer's editon"al a e. 
UH.. M/1<&. Ml!<f3. NO, NO, MIKE, 
[)(]()V£SBIJR.Y. OH, fXJN'T HAf(j tR! 
NE-W< MIN/J. YOU I WA7 JUST 
fA/()(Jl!JN'T REM£M-KI{){)IN6! t£7"5 
8£F.. GIXJJ-8Y.. 'TRY IT AGAIN,
\ (XAY? 
f 




Soccer coach replies 
Dear Editor, 
To the student writer who so adequately passed on his or her comments regarding my bench and sideline conduct. 
I shall sincerely try to conform my behavior to more acceptable bounds. I appreciate your views, concur in your observations, and will, of course, endeavor to better represent our university and our team. 
1also hope} ou will come back to our game on Friday' October I0. Perhaps you will be surprised to see a more mature and responsible coach. Your comments caused me to think much and to strive to be a more fitting example of the best athletic traditions of our school. 
Rich Hunter. Soccer Coach 
ROTC no 


monopoly on patriotism 
Dear Editor, 
Does Mary Fran Callahan wish to make the claim that those who serve in the armed forces are patriotic and those who disagree with gov.:rnmental policies arc unpatriotic? Indeed, in the article, "One of Ten Domers Belongs to ROTC," she makes the incredible statement that "at present, gone are anti-war sentiments conjured during the sixties, for patriotism is indeed fashionable again." 
On the contrary, those people who had the courage to protest the government's war policies often displayed a genuine concern for our nation. Moreover, those in the ROTC program are not necessarily motivated solely by patriotism but rather, as Ms. Callahan points out, are often attracted by financial considerations. 
Surely it i.s a mistake to assume that statements which challenge governmental policy cannot arise 
from  love or devotion  to  one's  
country.  
Joan Doverspike  

Sharon Pace 
Editor's note: When 1 discov­ered that 10 per cent of the campus was affiliated with the armed services, 1 set out to offer some objective reasons as to why their was such a surge in support since the Viet Nam years. it is not my feeling that one must join ROTC to demon­strate his or her patriotism, nor did 1 mean to intimate that all of those in the programs are necessarily patn'otic. 
Mary Fran Callahan 

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and. Saint Mary'~ C?llege. It does not ':lecessarily reflect the policies of the administration .of enhe~ msmuuon. The news ·~ r.eporred as accurately and as objectively as posstble. Ednonals represent the opm1on of a · · of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views authors. Column space is available to all members of the c~mmunity, and free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief................. Paul Mullaney Sports Editor ............ ...... Beth Huffman Managing Editor................... Mark Rust Features Editor ................. Molly Woulfe Editorials Editor ............... Mike Onufrak Photo Hdilor .................... .John Macor Smior Copy Editor .. ............. Lynne Daley Btm!um Mrmager ............... Greg Hedges Exewtive Nc•ws Edt,or .......... Tom Jackman Ctmtrol/er......................... .Jim Rudd News Editor . ................... Pam Degnan Adverttsing Manager . ............... Mark Ellis SMC E.remtive Hdt,or .......... Margie Brassil Ci'rcrilation Manager ............. Beth Hackett SMC News Editor ............... Mary Leavitt Production Manager ........... .John McGrath 
------~ 
-----------~ -­
. ' 
The Observer 

T0 da~==================W=e=dn=esd=a=y'=Oct=.l=obe=r=8=,1=98=0=-p=ag=e=6 


Campus 
I -­
• 8 : a.m.-5 p.m. -navy nuclear power demonstra­tion, main circle. •12:15 p.m.-lecture, "modifiers of intestinal carcinogenesis: a strategy for prevention," dr. normand. rtigroofwayne state u., galvin aud. • 3 
p.m. -tennis, nd women vs. valpariso u., cortney tennis complex. • 4 p.m. -soccer, nd vs. bethel college, stepan center. •4:20 p.m.-lec­ture, "the teaching of phy­sics," dr. clifford e. swartz of suny-stony brook, ll8 nieuwland. •4:30 p.m.­amnesty international meet­ing and movie, Iafortune center. • 6 p.m. -students united for responsible ener­gy meeting, Iafortune ball­room alcove. • 6: 30 p.m. ­
sailing club meeting, boat­house, st. joe's lake. • 7 p.m.-lecture, "catholi­cism for the '80's," by father richard mcbrian, howard chapel. • 7, 9:15, ll:30 p.m. -film, "the fury," engr. aud. sponsored by black cul­tural arts commission. • 30 p.m.-open forum for new constitution for student government, south lounge, walsh hall. • 7:30 p.m.­humanistic lecture series, "love & marriage in 18th century england: the birth of the modern family," lawrence stone, princeton u. stapleton lounge smc. • 
7:30 p.m.-management club meeting, room 122 hayes-healy. • 7:30 p.m.­
question and answer session with mayor parent in the little theatre, smc. • 8 
p.m. -business meeting: k of c hall, all paid up-to-date members welcome, district deputy featured • 8 p.m.­lecture, "turns in the evolu­
tion of the problem of in­-duction," prof. carl j. hempel, mem. library aud. 
• 8 p.m.-film, "r.d.laing's glasgow," snite aud. •9 
p.m. -open stage at~ the nazz. 
SURE meeting 
Students United for Respon­sible Energy (SURE) will hold a general meeting tomorrow night at 6 p.m. in the LaFortune ball­room alcove (2nd floor). Any questions, contact Suzy Marshall, 41-4915. 



Peanuts 
WE HA.NI>OVT BUTTONS AND 
BUMPER ST/Ck'£P.S ON -rnt= MAIN QUAD 


HAVE L{OU EVER CONSIDERED THAT? 



The Daily Crossword 
10/8/80


© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N. Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Beserved 
you missed getting your picture in 

Freshtnan RegisterRegister .. 
Applications for the the Freshman Register will be taken Oct. 9th from 1:00pm to 5:00pm next to the ticket office, 2nd floor LaFortune 
check & picture price includes both book & supplement 
Those, other than Freshman, interested in orderinl( a Re,l(ister may do so. (St. Mar_y's Freshman will be vontacted . the St. M 's Freshman 




Michael Molinelli-
THE.N we .6£1 FI/1E TO WASHINGTON 1-lALL AND FIRE:BOHB THE OSSE:RVE:~ 
AR£ YOlJ A M£MBER OF IVJY PA f?TJ C U L-11f? FbLITIC4.L 
~RTY?.---------~ 

ACROSS 1 Great distance 5 City on the 
Rhone 10 Open 14 Shade of 
green 15 Laborers 16 Hindu hero 17 Tenable 
basis for argument? 20 Bill passers 21 Shadeof green 
22 Popular parting place 
23 Vipers 25 Vehicles 28 Aesthetic 32 Woodwind 33 Exceedingly 34 Riode­35 Very hard 
candy? 39 D-Hcon­nection 
40 Archibald and Thur­mond 
41 Hawaiian goose 42 Motor pool Item 44 Window divisions 45 "TheCow­
ardly Lion" 46 -school 48 Plasterer's 
mixture 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
ooASIAs 1 s•P LANT  
PITT RUST.RADIO  
E V D E G E 0 R G E S A N D -LIT AND S 0 ''"'-'''~CODJED FIG.UPSET  
0 N  OiR FAT H E R T I ME  
N I  L. M A I • 0 WE .G I N  
G 0  L D  E N  R U  L E•l N  R E  
iiiE T.MAD-CREST  
J_J TAPIR.MAO­_A.PEN.MORNING  
ROCKH~DSON.ASEA  
ASTRO ERST.GASP  
SHEAR DATE.ERSE  




Charles Schulz 

10/8/80 




MARDI GRAS 

OrganizationalMeeting 

WEDNESDAY 

All: 
Committee Members  - 7:00  
All: Hall Chairmen  - 7:45  
Architects Ticket Sales  

Lafortune Little Theater 
25 Great Lakes acronym 26 Toward the 
stern 27 Dance 28 Eastern 
potentate 29 Subway item 30 A Castle 31 Essential 
parts 33 Sacrificial 
site 36 Disrepute 37 German 
composer 38 Metrical 
feet ­43 Out of shape 
44 Castro's 
currency 46 Lying flat 47 Graycoat 48 Untruther 49 "Don't 
Tread-" 50 Stage article 51 College sports org. 
52 Bronze Age burial chamber 
53 Sum, -,ful 54 Dim or half 
follower 55 Everything 56 Shade of 
green 50 Bearing 54 Edgeout? 57 Metrical 
foot 58 Sierra­59 Russian 
news agency 60 Deuce topper 
61 Campaign button's milieu 
62 Glut 
DOWN 1 Oh, woe! 2 Drum accom­
panier 3 Word of 
approval 4 Observed 5 Airport 
area 
6 Kind of rocket 7 Author 
Anita 8 USN officer 9 Fast plane 
10 Matt Dillon 11 Shade of 
green 12 See 13 D 13 Lost con­
trol, with 
12D 18 Shoshoneans 19 Mountainous 23 Semites 24 Big House 




-----~----------~--~-----­
The Observer Wednesday,_October 8, 1980 -page 7 

,. 
) 
STORE HOURS: Mon. thru Thurs. 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri. & Sat. 8 a.m. • 11 p.m. 

Prices Good thru Saturday, Oct. 10, 1980 
MINI MARKETS



li!JR2•1i(•l•I$J 
* 1426 Mishawaka Ave. * 4401 S. Michigan* 1621 South Bend Ave.* 200 N. Main St. 
287-7744 291-2600 SOUTH BEND, 233-4603 ELKHART, 295-6310 
* 2934 E. McKinley Ave.* 1725 N. Ironwood* 6502 Grape Rd. * 254 Dixie Hwy. North 
233-9466 272-7144 MISHAWAKA, 277-7176 ROSELAND, 272-2522 
PieJr Up Your Spirits And Enjoy Lower Priees! 
Keller Geister .......... 75o 22 9 
Blueberry, Concord 
19 9 

Mogen David ........... 75o 

Burgundy, Hearty Burgundy, Chablis Blanc, Rhine, Peppermint, Cinnamon Vin Rose, Cha~lis. 
49 9 

Spearmint, Ginger 
Gallo Wines ........ JLiter
9 9 
Arrow Schnapps ........ Liter 4 
Cool Mint 
Arrow·Schnapps ....... Liter 399 
'BEAM BLEND
Sweet or Dry-750 ML 
99
Martini & Rossi Vermouth 3 Walker's Deluxe ..... ~. 75 119 9 
99

MacKintosh Scotch ..... 75o 49 9 
1.75 LITER 

~ 399
Popov Vodka ............. 75o Gordon's Gin ........... 1so mr. 459 J & 8 Scotch ..............Liter 999 
Fig~ting Irish 
9 9 
Whiskey .................... Liter 5 


The Observer Wednesday,. October 8, 1980 -page 8 
Sportsbriefs_____, Holmes bout hospitalizes Ali 
Holmes in their match in Las pounds for the bout, "reduced
LOS ANGELES (AP)­
c 1980 Mtller Brewtng Co Mtlwaukee. Wts 

Gymnastics Club to meet 
There will be a mandatory meeting ofthe ND-SMC gymnas­tics team today at4 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility at Saint Mary's. All members and anyone else interested must attend. 

Skiers Meeting 
There will be a meeting of the Notre Dame ski team this evening in room 2-D ofLafortune beginning at 7:30. Members and other interested people should plan to attend. 
Vegas onThursday night. Ali was 
Muhammad Ali, soundly beaten unable to come out for the 11th 
last week in his attempt to regain round. 
the heavyweight boxing title, His longtime manager, 
was admitted to UCLA Medical Herbert Muhammad, said he has 
Ceqter for "diagnostic studles," been telling the former cham­
officials said yesterday. pion to retire for the past six 
Nursing supervisor Barbara years. During the fight, 
Stone said Ali, 38, was admitted Muhammad, sitting at ringside, 
to the hospital Monday and was signaled to trainer Angelo 
in "satisfactory" condition. Hos­Dundee that Ali shouldn't be 
pital officials would not disclose allowed to continue. 
the reason for the diagnostic "He was defenseless," 'studies. _ Muhammad said. "I stopped the 
A spokesman said Ali was re­fight strictly because he was de­
leased from the hospital on an fenseless. I think he lost too 
overnight pass butwas scheduled much weight. He was dried out. 
to return today. He didn't sweat." 
Ali, three-time heavyweight Muhammad said Ali, who 
champion, was beaten by Larry dropped from 254 pounds to 217 
LITE BEER FROM MILLER. EVERYTHING YOU ALWAYS WANTED IN ABEER. AND LESS. 
too fast because ofhis vanity. He wanted to lookgood, so he didn't drink enough water and didn't take his salt tablets." 
Rape


prevention at CCE 
by Killi Flint Senior Staff Reporter 
The Department of Psycho­
logical Services, in cooperation 
with the office ofStudentAffairs, 
will present the program 
'Waking Against Rape" tomor­
row night at 7 p.m. in the Center 
for Continuing Education Audi­
torium. 
The program follows the 
chronological sequence of e­
vents following a sexual assault, 
accon:jjng to Dan Rybicki, Psy­
chologist with the Department 
of Psychological Services. 
Dean Roemer, Security Direc­
tor Terry,and St. Joseph County 
Sheriff Jerry Rutkowski are 
among those scheduled to speak 
at the program. 
An ad hoc women's committee 
gave a similar presentation last 
year after two rapes occurred on 
campus, according to Pat 
Crosson, director of Psychologi­
cal Services. "Few students at­
tended the presentation," 
Crosson said. 
"As a result of the rapes, Dean 
of StudentsJames Roemer pub­
lished a paper on the procedures 
to be followed when a rape 
occurs. Roemer also promised 
that this year a public program 
on rape would be presented, fol­
lowed by video films which 
would be made available to the 
dorms to stimulate discussion. 
"Roemerasked us to develop a 
public rape awareness program 
and carry it through to the 
dorms," Crosson said. "We 
would like to · sponsor small 
group discussions in the resi­
dence halls about relationship 
problems. The topics could run 
the gamut from dating difficul­
ties to rape. 
"Our culture has recently be­come very violent, and the overly 'macho' image ofmasculinity has disturbed the delicate balance of what is permissible in personal relationships." 
Rybicki, who cqordinated the presentation, noted that he be­lieves that Thursday's program will spur student interest in the rape issue. "We're hoping for a good turnout ofgirls, hall staffs, and concerned males. After the program, pamphlets will be de­livered to all female students." 
Crosson noted the importance of the rector's role following a sexual assault. "It is assumed that following an attack the girl will tell her rector and the rector would contact security and ac­company the girl to the hospital as a part of the rector's pastoral concern," Crosson said. "After leaving the hospital the girl would return home and discuss with the rector whether she de­sires to snare the incident with any other hall residents. The rec­tor would also counsel the girl to seek follow-up care with Psycho­logical Services." 
"We're hoping that several hundred students attend the presentation," Crosson said. "We can't realistically estimate how many will attend. Students typically ignore the rape issue because they think that it can't happen to them. Whatever the turnout, we will have met our obligation to inform." 




Tim Andree wzll be out of action for the Notre Dame basketball team approximately six to eight weeks. The sophomore center suffers from a torn tendon in his left ankle. joe Kliene, a 6-8 freshmen, will fill-in for the injured Andree. [photo by john MacorJ. • 
Wednesday, October 8, 1980 -page 9 


Belles prepare for St. Francis 
bv 'Skip Desjardin Sports Wrli'er 

Coach Erin Murphy's St. Mary's volleyball team has a timely b'reak this week. "We've finally got a chance to get in four straight days of practice before a tournament," said Murphy. "We will need it, too, because this tournament is going to be a tough one." 
The stiff competition that the coach and her team are preparing fo~ gets underway Friday after­noon at the College ofSt. Francis in Joliet, Illinois. The Belles will go against four tough Division li clubs, Elmhurst, Illinois Central, Chicago State, and Notre Dame. 
The going will be rough, but Murphy sees some definite ad­vantages for her tea'm. 
I like playing in tournament situations. Itgives me a chance to vary my line-up, and gives my players some game experience at new positions. Playing Division II teams won't be easy, but it will 
WHC 
The World Hunger Coalition and the Justice and Peace Center are co-sponsoring a disarmament meeling on Thursday, October 9, at 7 p.m. in the ·south alcove of LaFortune. The purpose of the meeting is to pursue oppor­tunities for Christian witness of concern regarding the nuclear arms race. All are welcome to attend. 
get us into good shape for the 
state tournament that's coming 
up in a couple of weeks." 
There was good news and bad 
news for the team last weekend 
as they played hosr to Indiana 
State and Hanover College at the 
Angela Athletic Facility. The 
Indiana State team displayed 
some great shots and a deft touch 
to defeat St. Mary's 15-5 and 15­
6. 

The Belles rebounded, howev­
er, against Hanover. Earlier in 
the day, Hanover had beaten 
Indiana State, but they had no 
such luck against the Belles. 
"Our co-captain, Terr~ 
Walters, was terrific from behind 
the serving line for us," said 
Murphy. "She continually found 
the opponents weak spots, and 
rolled up a lot of points for us. 
Walters had a lot of help up front-in those games, as the Belles won 15-6 and l 5-5. Offen­sively, Ellen Hoye dominated the 
·net. "She hit a very high percent­
•********************************•
* * 
: Want Changes? ! 
* *
* ' * 
; YOUR Student ! 
* *

: Government ; * ~ Needs YoUR Helpl ;* H PASS The New E ~ Constitution !
* -* 

~ote uvES" on0ctober14;:
•********************************• 
AdvanCement Does Not Require An Advanced Degree 
You can spend another two to three years tn graduate school oryou c,;an turn four years ofliberal arts education into a practical, challenging and rewarding career in just three months-as an Employee Benefit Specialist. 
Benefits today amount from 30 to 35 percent of wages and salaries. Recent pension legislation has created even more demand for trained specialists. As an Employee Benefit Specialist you'll be called upon to excercise your own judgement, initiative and intelligence in a challenging, professional environment with progressive responsibility. 
The Institute for Employee Benefits Training is the first and • 
. most prestigious school in the United States, training Employee Benefits and Pension Specialists. This is a dynamic, growing career field in which advancement does not require an advanced degree. Our graduates are in demand by law firms, pension consulting firms, insurance companies, banks, and personnel and benefits departments of corporations. The Institute's Placement Service will place you too. If not, you will be eligible for a substantial tuition refund. 
Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all course work completed at The Institute. 
If you're a senior of high academic standing and looking for a meaningful career, contact yo r Placement Office for our catalog and arran 0 nave an interview wtth our repre­sentative. 


We wi .-· your campus on: Wednesday, October 15 
I I 
1./nstit~~= . ,
~~-~ 235 South 17th Street _
for _ .__ Philadelphia. Pennsylvanta 1910:1 

Employee • ~ (215) 732-6600 Benefits • 81 Training --·:..~ ~~ 
(Operated by P~ra·Legal. Inc.) 
Approved by The American Bar Association 

Prr>nr~~mc:: Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law. AC-0035 
age of her spike shots, which made the Hanover girls a little wary of going up to the net against her," said Murphy. 
St. Mary's Rosie Whalen had none of those fears herself, blocking several Hanover spike attempts, and turning in a fine defensive performance. 
"We have a couple of weeks, and a few totlgh tournaments coming up bd-ort• the state tourney starts," 1\turphy said. ''I'm very confident that by that time we will be pla~·ing tht· lwst ball that we are capabh: of. think that Wl' are going to peak at just the right tinll'." 
A good indication of just what the Belles' capithilit it's are will he their play in the big tournament Friday in ./•>li, t. "We· play Divi­si4mlll, hut I dtink tlt;tl rlll'g.ttiH' experience against thl' big I >ivi~­ion II schools will ht·lp 11.'-.. I .rlso think that Wt' art· going to ,,lit­prise a few people wi 1It It, 1w well we play. 

. J • 
... 
The Observer Wednesday , October 8, 1980 -page 10 





SMC hockey team faces N.D. Friday witli 'shuttle offense' 


by Brian Beglane Sports Writer 
Out with the old and in with the new. That's the attitude the St. Mary's field hockey team takes into this Friday's "Shuttle Series" matchup against arch-rival Notre Dame, held on Cartier Field at 5:30p.m. 
The Belles bring a 2-5 record into the contest against the Irish, and that has led coach Marcee 
Wiese declined to say exactly where the changes will take place-that's for Notre Dame to find out this weekend. 
"The girls are obviously very excited about this game," con­tinued Wiese. "Yet it's also quite a change. St. Mary's students normally root for Notre Dame in every sport, but now the feeling is one of competition. It can be hard to have to change your loy­alties in such an instance-it's 
Wiese to inaugurate some definitely a unique experience." 
changes for this game. St. Mary's dropped-its record 
"We have changed our whole last Saturday with a 3-0 loss at 
strategy both offensively and de-Marion College. The Belles were 
fensively," explained Wiese. still fighting a series ofinjuries at 
'The girls have been working the time, but that situation has 
very hard this week and we hope • cleared up. Now it's a question of 
for it to pay off." finding some consistency on of­
-··································································:
. 

Slt)I?IS SIAffl 
[)()II!t f()l"t?t 'II!UI§clcll' lll"llt!§ 
ru«?tlll~ ()aJ() ~rn 
. 
~ 
..........•...•.............•...........••................•..•.•.. 
~ Help others while you help-YOURSELF... ~ to a wide selection of hand crafted articles 
from the THIRD WORLD _ 
ST. FRANCIS SHOPPE 
Non Profit Organization Behind Fatima-Opposite St. Mary's 10-6 Mon. thru Sat. Phone 233-7467 

~ -_ 
GOOD TIME MUSIC ­GOOD TIME ROCK AND ROLL 
"STRAIGHT FLUSH" 
Now Available for Bookings Hall Parties Special Engagements 
Call Jeff Barcus at 259-8088 
Make more of your ..,oat.c,nd• 
-
00 great 'ntes on great GM l', :· -~ from '~ ..~on Thurs thro~1gt· · .-,, 
• \1onC1d\ 'Car.comes wrtli !" · \ gas Juslpay for gas used ,r_
$16~da, car to rer 11ing locatior-Drsn ·Lr' · 
A 
notapply: ' 
Unlimited Mileage Michiana Regional Airport South Ben(i ln. 234-IOJ 
fense. 
"We had intermittent control 
ofthe game against Marion," said 
Wiese. "We went into the game 
cold and their first two goals 
came in a flurry (all three came in 
the first half}. That was unset­-tling. 
"Now we are back to normal 
with no injuries. That certainly 
has to help." 
Senior captain Beth Welsh 
leads the Belles offense into the 
Career Information 

Arts & Letters Career Day Thursday,' October t 12 noon to 4 p.m. LaFortuneStudent Center 
University o.f Notre Dame Placement Bureau 
contest against the 7-2 Irish_ Back from the ranks of the in­jured, however, are freshman forward Karen Korowicki and halfback Nancy Lorenzini. Goal" ie Monique Fedor, who missed Saturday's game at Marion, also should be back in action. 
...Phillies 
[continued from pqge 12] 
last three Houston batters in or­der after. walking leadoff man Luis Pujols in the ninth. 
Carlton, carrying Cy Young credentials that include 24 reg­ular-season victories and a major league-leading 286 strike-outs, was shaky early in the game. 
Houston left two runners on base in each of the first two innings and then nicked Carlton for a run in the third. 
With one out,Jose Cruz lined a single off Carltor' ·lov~. The ball was hit so • _,d it ro!Ied almost al1 the way to first base. Cesar Cedeno followed with a single to center, moving Cruz to second. 
AfterArtHowe flied out, Gary Woods drilled a 2-2 pitch off second baseman Manny Trillo's glove, scoring Cruz. It was the second hit ·of the game for \'(TPods, who spent the 1980 sea­SO'l m the Pacific Coast League and had played just 18 games for 
the Astros after being purchased 
fnm Tucson on Aug. 30. 
.Armed with the lead, Forsch was brilliant. He allowed a lead· off single to Pete Rose in the third, but catcher Pujols called fer a pitchout on the next pitch and gunned Rose out on an at­tempted steal. 
The next eight Philadelphia hitters went down in order as Forsch used the entire strike zone. He pitched in, out, up and down and had the Phillies clearly off balance. 






PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
JOB INTERVIEWS ARI OPEN TO SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS IN TilE DECEMBER, MA\' A.~D 
AUGUST CLASSES •••••••• ,ANY WHO INTEND TO HAVE INTERVIEWS HIJST HAVE A COMPUTED PROFILE (REGISTRATION) FOAM ON FlU AT THE PLACEMENT BU REAU, 
THE SIGN-UP PERIOD IS FROM 8:00A.M. TO 5:00 P.M., MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY, IN ROOM 213 ADMINISTRATION BUILDING BEGINNING OCTOBER 6 FOR INTEftVlEWS SCHEDULI.D FOR THE WEEK OF OCTOBER 13. 
YOU HUST SIGN FOR YOUR INTERVIEWS PERSONALLY • 
DATE AL BA EG SC LW HBA 

-----~~--~+-+-4-~---------------------------------­
0ot. n -r l 1 ._ 
~ X j .I LJ: ~n&e Edible 01.1 CompanyI I,U~r-Cancelled. 
X 1 _~. I .., 
I ~~ X X X X 

I· : J 
.1 X I X 
I 1 IX ' I· 
1 
j I i 
Oct. 13
iien.-­
Oct. 13/14 
Hon/Tu... 
X 
Oct. 14
rues:-­
X X X 

X 
X 
X 
X 
~ct.14/15 1 
Tuu/Wed/Th 
Oct:. l5 
w;r-
X 
X 
X 
Oct. U/16 
Wed/Thura. 
Oct. n/16 
WedL'lhun. 
Oct. 15/16/ 
1 
Wlt'd/Thun/r 1. 
X 
Oct. 16 
TbUri:­

Oct.. 16/17 
~ 
X 
ocl. 11 
~ 
X 
X 

. c 
X 
X 
Oct. 15 
X X X Oct, 17 
>l X X 
·• Oct ..13 
X X X 
Oc:t.. l5/16/ 7X X X 
, 
X 
X X X 
X 
X 
ll. 
X 
X 
X X 
X 
..J..,e,t1Jotnh Department of Transportation Cancelled. 
Unlveraity of Denver. Gradual!e School of Busineu B in all disc1pl1nea. 
Robert H. Finn and Company 
8 in Acct. 
Hetroeolitan Life. I~aurance C0111eany 
B in all disciplines. ~­
H.I.T. Lincoln Laboratory MD in!.!. BHD in Comp Sci. PhD in Phydc•· 
~ern Truot c..peny 
,c....~~ Cucelled. (Will be on c.upva Feb. .20) X-,~~ x_ Profeaaional eo.puter Resources, Inc. 
""~""" 
Data Prou..tna Software Conaultanu. BBA, K!A.ln Kat. B in Math. Oak Brook, IL. PeB. ll.ea. Visa required. 
R.auland Dividon of Zenith Radio Corporation B in !E, tm, H!IO. 
Standard Oil Ca.pany (Indiana) B in Acu. 
TRW ~ Ddenn batema/Space Syataa Group IH in El, ME. Phyaica, Applied Hath, A.!. 
U, S. Cvpa'* to.pany luildlaJ Pl'oduc:h. B in ME, 1!, Cl, KilO. For: troject Jnara. l.ocaUoaa: Nat1oavid•. Pen.. 
J.eeident Vb• requJred. 
~co 011 -id1n1na. Whiting. IN. BK in U, ME, Cl, Chi. 
"-oco 011 -UD. hperville, lL Btm in ChE. PhD in Chem. 
CARD, Inc. IMD in C!, HE. 8!f in Phyl!lics. 
Hotoroh, lac. lntesratecl Circuit Dlv. IH in t:E, Cbl. Ket,. Phyaiu, Ch-. 
Geo. S. Olive l Coapany B in Aeet. 
Schl-.beraer Well Servic•a B~ fn tl, ~. P•troleum En~tr. Phv-.fcl'l. 
Standar,J Ull C0111pt11\\' \lnoh.ul.•• !I in Acct. 
U.S. 
lnduatrial Chemicals Companv 8 in ME, Met, EE. BM in ChE. 

c. 
S. Steel Corporation I in EE. ME, Met. 


Xuox Corporation 
and S•iconductor 
BH in all diaeiplinu for S.alea -Indianapolis, I!\. 
EXXON Corporation and U.S.A. Affiliates DID in ChE. 1M in ME, !'let. 
Institute for Elllployu 8t'nef1ts Training All lA and IBA. 
liotorola, Inc. -Co-unic:ations Division BH la tE. a 11\ Comp Set or C011p En&r. Delete KL 
llural Electrification Adnr.in. Dept. of Aaric:ulture B in !!. 
Cenn•l Dynciu Corporation BHD in I!, tJi, U, K£10, Engr Sci. 
Stedtaae lnc. 
U) a.tn HI. 
16) a ln Hkt. 
Ernst & Whinn9 a 1ft. .\~.ct. MIA with Ac'ct bkt~rd o• conctrn. 
C.i.leulon Corporation Co..puter and tnainurina Fin. Conaultina work for Government. BH in E£, C0111p SCi, Math, Phya. ArUnaton, VA. .Cithenahip uquiud. 
AJDeriun Can Co-panx IH 1!' ME, EE, Cht,· C~p Sci. B in HElD. 
GenerU Electric Company IH in AE, ME, Chi, ll, Met, Engr. Sci. 
Standa.rd Oil Cu.panx (Ohio) IH in Ch!, ME. 
Texas lnan\!!leaU. Materials & Electrical Product• Group BH inn,.,., 
f'ishn Coatroh Ca~~pimy BH In tl!, !!, Cht. B k'l HEIO. 
Ganera.l JUlll, Inc. B _tn~on. All IBA. fo¥ Coall'lodtt'y MerchancUaer only. 
'­
t:!!~.rnx ~ ·.,. 
... ,. .. :r ····: 
Stat! DepartMnt .. f'ord&o Servtu All Ltb. Atte and luaineas atudenta. 
Syste:ma En&ineer.tln£ Laboratory -En&ineerina ExperimentiJ•ln1o/t.•t the lieor&la lnetitute of Technology 
UOP Proc:eu Divbion BH in ChE. • 
LAW SCHOOLS: 
McGeorge School of Law 
Drake University·-St:hool of Law 
Waehtnat.on Univ~I.d~L, Cradu.ue School of llustnesa in St. Louis. Ali interested atudents. · 
l'. s.. Marine-Corps. All .. inter!sted student& 



• 
Wednesday,. October 8, 1980 -page 11

The Observer 
-

4, 6-3 Cartwright 6-2, 6-2 
Philadelphia 3, Houston 1 Philadelphia at Houston, (n),
New York (May 1 S.5) at Kansas City 
Pam Flschette (ND) del. Elizabeth Cronin-Stasio Obremskey (NO) del.
Today's Game II necessary
(leonard 20-11), (n) Friday's Game 
Barney 3-6, 6-1, 6-1 Vicki Wenz-Trudy Lundow 6-2, 7-5 
I 








Classifieds 
1need a ride to l<"wa lor two over I will pay top $ lor 2 GA Army fix lor WANTED: 2 or 3 Army GA's. Please
Private bungalow, two bedroom, ATTENTION o· EO NO WOMEN:
October break. Call Jim at 1073 Mom and Dad. Call Paul 8506. call Nancy 31191
NOTICES stove, regrlgerator, carpeted. 288-Tired of being t friends"? Sick of 0955 having your Ia Jled as a door·
Need ride tor two from NJ to NO 
DESPERATELY NEED TIX FOR MIAMI. I NEED 2 OR 4 GA TICKETS FOR MIAMI 10/25 or 26. Call 1778 or 71183. 
mal by lnsenl\ males? Bored OVERSEAS JOBS: Summer/year 
CALL JEFF 232·0902 CALL JOHN AT 287·7850
FOR RENT-ClEAN ONE-BEDROOM with "no comr lent" relation-round Europe, S. Amer., Australia, apartment close to campus. large ships? We've gal answer! JOIN
Asia. All fields $500-$1200 monthly. DESPERATE: Need 2 GA fix to Miami. Needed 2 GA's or student tickets to
enough lor two; $155 plus utilities. THE BEE ~OCIEn where male
Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free Willing to pay. Call 287-6005 the Miami game. Call Kathy 6751. 
Contact Ron at Pandora's Books, exploltalion Is at II ... estll For Into:
Into. Write: UC. Box 52-IN 4, Corona evenings.
233-2342. Call the Killer Queens-2186 
Del Mar, CA. 92625. FOR SALE Need six G.A. fix. for Army together. Help. Need 3 MIAMI GA's. call Jim Call Mike 8760. 
SENIORS...WHITE SAND... BLUE WATERS...

SPECIAL SALE on all psychology and 8727 SUNNY SKIES...GAMBLING... NASSAU..
sociology books. and special _ 2 room apt. $50 mo. Near.233·1329. I need 5 GA and/or sludent tickets BAHAMAS.OCT 19·25.
selection ofFREE NEW BOOKS (ask to AUTHENTIC OlYMPIC 1980 WARM· Need 4 or 5 GA and 1 student Miami tor Army game. Call Kevin al3578. 
see these). 1000's of new and used UP SUIT FOR SALE OF A LIMITED 4000 tickets. Call Mike 1207. Get NAZZED tonlgh~ .. OPEN STAGE
books. Check us first and save $. MANUFACTURED FOR THE ENTIRE at nine o'clock. 
Also N-York Times and magazines. UNITED STATES. BEAUTIFUL RED, WHITE 
Need MIAMI student and GA tickets. Pandora's Books, 937 South Bend AND BLUE VELOUR MATERIAL. MORE Many BUCKS could be Involved. Ave.• near Eddy. 233·2342. INFO: SEND NAME AND \lrUMBER TO Call Bob 1066 Need 2 GA's for Miami or parents Veronica Is a goddess 
P.O. BOX 621, NOTRE DAME. STATE will cut oft CARE packages. Call
WANTED 
WORLD'S FINEST SPORTING KNIVES, SIZE. ONLY $150. NEED 1·4 MIAMI GA TICKETS. Will Brian 31112 INCREDIIILY SHARP, LIFETIME PAY TOP $$. 277·11727 
G.B.. B.B.. J.B.. k.M.. AND OTHER 

GUARANTEED CALL #1555 YES Hx-2 first row floor Mike 287· Desperately need two GA or 
ZAHM FRIENDS: THERE ARE 

0160 alter 6 PM student tickets lorMIAMI Please call
HAVE$$$. NEED 2 GA MIAMI TICKETSIII HEY SENIORS, JUNIORS. ARE YOU CAll TIM 1633 Betsy 4286 SMC 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS ALCOHOLICS AROUND YOU. 
RINGS. Men's $35 • $85 and up. Free WARNIN~ SIGNS: CLIMBING VANS 
ENGAGED? INTERESTED IN STARTING Wanted: Student or GA Miami TIX.
house calls. 255-2402. AND YELLING OBSCENE THINGS;
OR ADDING TO YOUR HOPECHEST? Call Ed 1251. Need 1 Miami Student Ticket and
NEED STUDENT MIAMI TICKETS CALL WRESTLING IN THE TYPING ROOM 
PHONE #1555 Army GA.'s. Will Pay $$. Call
College Students: Earn while you DAVID 287·6986 WTTH A STRANGE MAN; DOING DON 
Georgeal8576 between 10and 11.

learn. Hours flexible. Call 291-1661 KIRSHNER IMPERSONATIONS; WHmE'S Need a pair or Miami GA tickets
lor Interview. HUMAN DOMINOES; AND NOT Call Eric 1105 
NEED ONE MIAMI STUDENT TIX. CAll FOR SAlE: 2 MIAMI G.A. TIX. BEST 
REMEMBERING THE MORNING AnER.

MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student TOM 1629.
NEED RIDE TO HOUSTON FOR OCT. YOUR ANONYMOUS FRIEND
OFFER. CAll 1852. BREAK CALL JOHN 3436 
loans $20-$200. One percent 
Interest. Due In 30 days. One day Helpl Need 2 or 4 tlx lor Army, wall. Open M·F 11:30·12:30. Final PLEASEI Mary Jane 41·4414
COMICS, new and old. DC, Marvel, Ride to Seallle Oct. 17. Laura 277· 
Warren, more. Free personal 8646. delivery on campus. Discounts.
application day before break Is fix needed lor arizona game $$ 
Oc:l. 16. jim. 8700 Need 2 GA Miami fix tar parents' HAPPY BIRTHDAY BILL FLYNNI WE 287-6920 evenings and weekends. 
llrsl trip to Dame. Call Greg 6713. WOULD HAVE BAKED YOU A CAKE,
RIDERS NEEDED TO N.Y.C./LI. AREA
PHAEDO -the beloved goldfish WILLING TO PAY $100 FOR 2 MIAMI BUT AFTER YOUR COMMENT ABOUTFOR OCT. BREAK. LEAVING WED. NITE For sale 71 Mercury, runs well, air, 
of Dave Schled&f, Mike Marlin. Tim G.A. TICKETS, PLEASE CALL JAY -Need MIAMI GA'SIII Will TRADE US TURNING INTO "TYPICAL SMC
10/15. CALL Al 3462 power,
McGrady and Kenneth Holland -some rust, 75000 miles, 45116 ARMY GA'S OR PAY BIG MONEY. CHICKS" WE DECIDED TO BE MORE passed suddenly last week. CALL PAUL, 8916 ORIGINAL
$3110. Call 277-5916. 6·9 p.m. I DESPERATELY need to buy or
Elaborate burial service occurred NEED 4 GA TIX TO MIAMI. CALL LOVE VA'.
borrow a copy of Construction.
at 141 Pangborn and Interment LANCE. 277-3685. NEEDED 1 Student or GA ticket to the M.B., B.B., AND K.B.
Principles Materials and Methods
followed, alter a candlelit Miami game. Will trade 1 Army
by Olin et. al. Call Deirdre at 6903,
proceulon. In St. Mary's Lake. To NEED GA !'NO STUDENT TIX FOR ticket and/or CASH. Call Jeff 1627 NEED TWO GA MIAMI TICKETS
351 Badin.
console the grief of the surviving MIAMI. CALL DAN AT B194 CAll liZ AT 277-0482 foursome, please send donations TICKETS to the "REPLACE PHAEDO FOUN· DATION." c/o 141 Pangborn. Needed: 4 GA's or students fix tor PERSONALS 
Need ride to Massachusetts or Miami game. Will buy separately. iiders needed to northern Florida Connecticut area for Oct. Break. Call Jim 232-0902.
Need four Miami GA fix. Call Stan LADIES OF ND-SMC: TODAY IS Bill 
tor october break call Terry or Pam Call Mike, 1780. 1942 MCGUINNESS'S 21ST BIRTHDAY! YOU
SMC Class of '112 presents 2nd 277-8358 NEED 4 STU OR GA TIX FOR MIAMI 
MAY CONGRATULATE HIM IN ANYannual "HAPPY HAYRIDE" Friday

MUST HAVE 4 ARMY G.A. TICKETSII MANNER YOU WISH. (BUT NOT IN
NEIL YOUNG NEEDS ALABAMA TIX; john 3651 
October 10th 4:30-9:30 llckels on CAll3113, 3115,3178 
CALL JIM 277-8862 FRONT OF THE MRS., PLEASEI)
sale In all dining halls this. week 
Need GA or student tickets for Hey Mary B.,
NEED RIDE TO N.D. FROM l.I./N.Y.C. AREA ARER BREAK. BOB 3113 ARMY game, or I CAN'T go hamel HELPI Need many GA MIAMI fix. HI Keep smlllngl Someone around Call Sue 4349 SMC. Cathy 7927 here really caresl 
need ride to PIHsburgh Area for Chris
Concerned about the Soulh

Need three tickets tor the Miami I need 4 or 5 ~a·s lor the Miami
LOST/FOUND 
break. Call Susan 284·5369. 
Bend · NO slluallon77 Come talk to 
game. Call Susan at 277-4598 game Call Stoney at B391 ROll STUDS BEAT THE SCUM FROM
the man In charge. South Bend's I need many student Miami NEXT DOOR EAT FACE NITZ.AMMONS,
MAYOR PARENT TO SPEAK AT SMC tickets. Will pay reasonable Need GA Hx lor Mloml. Will pay lop Ollie theater Wednesday, October TIM, PAT and THE COACH 
Lost: Maroon sweatjacket aa set requests. Call 7443. $$$. Call between 6 a II p.m. 234· 8, at 7:30 p.m. of keys behind the ACC on 9/30. If 5782 and ask for Tom. Someone you care about· a friend. found, please call Shelly (6783). a family member · have a drinking
Need RIDERS to Georgia. Call Bill 
needed six Alobama tickets, will Dive Into the political scene. 
Need 4 GA's lor the Miami game. problem? Join us. AI Like, ext. 8809.
11697 pay hu~e bills, call Joe 1728 Come meet the people Involved... 
LOST: St. Chrlslophe(s Medal on Call John 3485. 
Brademas, Parent and more. RIDE NEEDED -FOR BOSTON AREA
Cartier Field, Tuesday night. Great Minnesotans: Support our MN 
Tall blonde needs just oneAiobama Political Week '80 Oct. 6·10. Walch 
Sentimental Value; If found, please NEED ADJACENT MIAMI GA'S. Club Hotdog-Brat stand In front of
(OR R.I., CONN) FOR BREAK. Will lor IIIII
tic. Call Jamy 8113.
call Dan, 1629. REWARDI SHARE USUAL. CAN LEAVE THURSDAY CAll PHIL AT 11163 OR 1850. O'Shag on Sal. before Miami 
gamel MN Officers NOON. PETE 1791 

Need len GA Hx lor Miami. Call THE BOSS IS BACKIII 
LOST: Old whHe and yellow gold HELP I NEED 5 GA'S FOR THE MIAMI THE BOSS IS BACKIII
Mall at 8583
ring by my mom Michigan weekend. Need one rider to Balllmore for GAME OCT11 PLEASE CAllCOLLEEN THE BOSS IS BACKIII Coach BF Probably at library or Bookstore. 4-1·4539 Sorry lor the unnecessary rough· 
break 8776 
NEED 3 TICKETS -STUDENT OR G.A.
Great sentimental value. Call Paul neu Friday night. When can you 
-FOR MIAMI -259-8250 the BEAST...a legend In his own pantsl 
Riehle at 6111 or 232·1545. hear my confession? I had a grea'
Wanted female or male vocalist lime.
lor local band preforming and I NEED 2 GA'S AND 1 STUDENT TICKET Agent FRITZ 00111 (alias the BEAST)
LOST: Pair of brown frame glosses in love,
recording original progressive rock. Need Mlamlllckels, student or GA. -tamer of womenl
TO MIAMI GAME. MONEY IS NO 
a brown case. Two weeki ago near k.l.
Must be prolesslonal and have Calllorne: 232-0572; or283-7097. 
OBJECT PlEASE CALL TIM AT 2129 
green field. Call234·1361 good stage presence. II Interested 
Would you be Interested In ex­call288-1725 all. 6:00pm. Desperately need eHher 1 student 
NEED 2 ARIZONA TICKETS. 4006-SMC changing work lor living quart&fs7 FOUND: WOMAN'S GOLD WATER 
and 1 G.A. or 2 G.A.a for Mlamllhla 

Graduate student or couple needed IIETWEEN SOUTH DINING HAll AND Solurday. Friend and future em­
at First United Methodist Church. DILLON. GO TO LOST a FOUND IN ployer coming In from Cal. Also 
NEED 4 MIAMI GA TIX CALl MARY 
234·0233 Contact Volunteer Services, 73011. THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE OFFERSADMINISTRATION BLDG. PLEASE 
need 2 G.A. Ux lor Air Farce. Call 
GOOD FOOD, GOOD DRINK, LIVE

DESCRIBE. Need ride to PHILLY area tar 277-33711, ask tor Marty
I need lots of student or GA Miami TUTORS NEEDED: 1. English tutor ENTERTAINMENT AND PSUEDO·Oc:lober break, can leave early. 
fix. Call Chuckles at 3064. needed lor woman lram Hong INTELLECTUAl. CONVERSATION EVERY
lOST: ran Suede Jacket-REWARD Far Call Susan or kate 6737 Need only one Miami GA. Call 
kong. 2. High school Freshman, THURSDAY FROM 9-12 IN THE ZAHMReturn.losl In the CCMB. IF FOUND 11900.
I NEED ONE TICKET TO MIAMI GAME gen&fal tutoring. 3. For grade BASEMENT. STOP IN AND DISCOVERPlEASE CAU 3337.(Greal Sentimen­WANTEO-ND/SMC students with 
STUDENT OR G.A. CALL ED AT 8651 school. Math and Reading. Contact THE MEANING OF LIFEIII tal Value) halrculllng experience. Call-3002 HELLLLPI I need 4 GA's to,lhe Miami Volunteer Services, 73011. game. Will also take Student Tlx.
DESPERATELY NEED 5 MIAMI GA'S. BLOB,
Desperately need heavy SEX but 
Call John #3485.

DO NOT HAVE TO BE TOGETHER. CALL A faithful boker has one special YOU SHORT-HAIRED AMORPHOUSfirst I have to have two Miami 1945. birthday cake lor Jim Finnerty. Call LUMP OF OBNOXIOUS RADIOACTIVEFootball Tickets. Please call me at Need many MIAMI and ARMY TIXl 6877 lor rendez-vous Information. 
PROTOPLASM. SAY NO MORE OR KISS

1142 and see II we can work some 
Call Jim at 1692 
YOUR ICE-CHEWING TONNAGEnight... I mean tickets out. Bill.

FOR RENT Debbl, 
GOODBYE. Need two tlx tor Miami. Will pay $$. HELPI Desperately In need of 4 Good luck with tryouts. We're all THE TONGUE-LESS PARROTS
Desperalely need RIDE TO DENVER Miami tickets. Parents sparing 
no FOR FALL BREAK. Will share even the expense. Call 1644. basketball anyway? 
Cal/ Tam 3362 behind you. How do YOU ploy AND GOD SAID: "LET IT ROCKIIIII" Private, 10 min. from N.D., two unusual. Please call meat 1142 and 
Dasperately need one GA Miami Pal, Mary, Glana, Anne, Lisa, rooms, kllchenelle, show&f, private ask tor Bill. Parents comlngll Need 2 G.A. Army Kalh, Terri, • Sheryl, Pia, Maya,
.tc. Please call 30711. Watch out lor the KAMIKAZESIII 
entrance, $45 a week, utilities paid. llx. Call Joe 1840. 
Dianne, krts, Belly, Trlcla, and MaMa Call 21111-0955 

Baseball 
Best Thre&-oi-Five AMERICAN LEAGUE Championship Series Today's Game 
NewYork(Guldry 17-10) at Kansas City (Gura 18-10) TomorroW's Game 
Kansas City (Spllttorff 14-11) at New York (John 22-9), (n) Saturday's Game 
Kansas City at New York, (n), II necessary Sunday's Game 
Kansas City at New York, II necessary 
NAnONAL LEAGUE Championship Series Yesterday's Game 
Houston at Philadelphia, (n) TomorroW's Game 
No game scheduled Friday's Game 
Philadelphia at Houston Saturday's Game 
Philadelphia at Houston, II necessary Sunday's Game 
~r ennis 
Notre Dame 8, Buller 1 Singles 
Sarah Fee (B) del. CindySchuster 7-6, 7­
5 

Linda Hoyer (ND) del. Jennie Young 6­
Coro'l Shukla (ND) del. Pat Cartwrlght6­4, 6-3 Peggy Wabh (NO) del. Lori Dolson 6-2, 6-3 Sue Pratt (NO) del. Julie Olllan 6-2, 6-4 
Doubles 
Hoyer-Tina Stephan (ND) del. Fe&­Young 7-5, 6-3 Shulds-Fischelle (NO) del. Barney­

• 
Wednesday,. October 8, 1980 -page 12

~ports 


On homer 
Phillies blast Astros, 3-1 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) ­
Greg Luzinski, battling a near 
season-long slump, hammered a 
two-run homer that carried the 
Philadelphia Phillies to a 3-1 
victory over Houston in Tuesday 
night's opening game of the 
1980 National League Cham­
pionship series. 
· Luzinski's sixth-inning shot off Ken Forsch erased a 1-0 Astra lead and set off fireworks over Veterans' Stadium as a playoff recorrl crowd of65,277 howled. 
• The second game in the best­of-five series will be played Wed­nesday night in Philadelphia. 
Forsch had been locked in a tight duel with Steve Carlton, ace of the Phillies' staff, but after Luzinski's homer gave Philadelphia the lead, it fell to relief ace Tug McGraw to nail down the victory. 
Carlton struggled through the cuited the Houston rally and then, in the bottom of the sev­enth Phillies Manager Dallas Green lifted his top starter for a pinch-hitter. 
Astros'  seventh,  allowing  two  
hits.  A  neat  pickoff throw by  
catcher  Bob  Boone  short-cir­ 

It was a bold move that paid off when Greg Gross stroked an RBI single to left, giving Philadelphia a 3-1 lead. 
The rest was up to McGraw, and the veteran left-hander pre­served the victory, retiring the 
(continued on /Jage 10) 
HoSinski energizes St. Mary's 
by Maureen H eraty Sports Wrtter 
According to the physics de­partment, energy equals MC squared. 
According to the St. Mary's athletic department, energy e­quals Mary Beth Hosinski, a jun­ior on the Belle volleyball team. 
Hosinski, an accounting ma­jor, manages to squeeze classes, studying, practice, and matches, not to mention sleep and meals, into the 168 hours allotted to each week. Subtracting the hours spent on the basic activi­ties which make up St. Mary's student life leaves a limited amount of time for other activi­ties. ~y cutting a couple of min­
utes here and there, keeping 
more than a few late nights, and 
never stopping to take a breath, 
Hosinski manages to fit volley­
ball into her schedule. 
Why submit oneself to such a 
hectic life? 
"I just love it," says Hosinski. 
A true sports junkie, Hosinski boasts a long history of athletic involvement. She started playing softball at age eight or nine and has committed herself to some kind of sport each year ever since. 
Hosinski played volleyball for four years in her high school, Mishawaka Marion. She admits, however, that she never became hooked until she started playing for St. Mary's. 
"I found that it is a good source 
oflearning how to get along with 
others, a wav to travel and a way 
to meet pe~ple," she explains. 
Last year Hosinski earned the 
Most Valuble Player Award for 
St. Marv's softball team. This 
summer.she playedonasemi-pro 
softball team while competing at 
the same time on a Junior 
Olympics volleyball squad. 
"I saw how men play, which is a different style than women's volleyball," says Hosinski when reflecting on her summer exper­iences, "and I played with the best area players. I got used to playing at a high caliber and I built up my endurance." 
Endurance? 
Hosinski plays either softball 
or volleyball year-round. From 
September until January s·,1e 
plays on the Belle varsity volley­
ball team and from January to 
May she participates in club vol­
leyball with the Blue Wave. 
"Everybody is so positive," says Hosinski of this year's Belle volleyball squad. "The team is one ofthe few teams I've been on that is so open in its attitude. They'll be the first to say you did well, but nobody is afraid to criti­cize anybody else either." 
In Hosinski's opinion, the team owes its enthusiasm, close­ness and ov;erall skill to the ef­forts of its coach of two years, Erin Murphy. Murphy also serves as Saint Mary's assistat athletic director. 
"Erin loves pia ying and she can-· teach us a lot," says Hosinski. "Only a few years ago, she was in college, too, playing on a nation­ally competitive team. 
"She has had so many honors in volleyball, I can't remember them all." 
Just as Hosinski seems to be 
Murphy's  number-one  fan,  
Murphy admires  her  junior  
superstar.  

"She is one of our key setters and a consistent player, very dependable," says Murphy. "We worked on setting all summer so that by September Mary Beth was ready to step into the job and she has proved herself over­whelmingly capable." 
''I'm· a perfectionist," declares Hosinski. "I'll pout, ifl think I've let myself down. Maybe I should be a little cockier." 
Though she herself may not appreciate her talent, other team members recognize it, according to Murphy. "I see some of the other girls asking her advice and 'did I do right?' quite often." 
AlthoughSt. Mary's volleyball team holds a current record of4­4, Hosinski believes the stand­ings do not reflect the team's capabilities. 
"We are a young team, but a strong team. Our freshmen add a lot to the team. We complement each other pretty well. 
"Give us two weeks and we'll blow everyone away!" 

Despite the time she devotes to volleyball, Hosinski does not foresee volleyball as a large part of her life after college. 
"Volleyball is not ~y life," she 
stresses. "My first priority is to 
become a CPA. Whether I can 
play volleyball or softball de­
pends on whether I can fit them 
into my work and my home life." 
Hosinski will undoubtedly find 
a way to play. You can't talk 
about Mary Beth Hosinski with­
out saying tha.t she is a competi­
tor. 
In .sports you need someone 
willing to fight, someone willing 
to give 100 percent all the 
time-Mary Beth Hosinski is 
that type of person. 
And she will fight with every ounce of energy she can muster. Energy is her middle name. 


john s;;eeney, who did not practice in pads yesterday joins Phtl Carter, Don Kidd, Dave Duerson and several 
other ln"sh players  on  the injured list.  [photo by john  
Macor].  
••  

I
·rish / by Bill 

tems Marquard 

BORN TO RUN-Sophomore speedster-Phil Carter sprinted to second place in national rushing rankings following his 254-yard outburst vs. Michigan State. Carter's 166.3-yard average per game is only .2 yards short of Nebraska running backJarvis Redwine. 
Having become only the fourth player inNotre Dame history to gain·lOO or more yards in three straightgames, Carter will be gunning for the unprecedented Irish feat of gainiQg over 100 yards in four straight affa[rs when the Irish tackle Miami on Saturday. 
HEA.DIN' STRAIGHT INTO THE STORM-Carter may have more than just his work cut out for him when he and his Irish teammates face the Hurricanes this weekend. Miami boasts the stingiest rushing defense in the land, allowing a total of62 yards on the ground in four games thus far for a 15.5 yards­per-game mean. The miserly Hurricane d~fense set a school record three weeks ago, holding Florida A&M to minus 40 yards rushing. ­
The Irish will also be matching their 24th-rated scoring offense (28. 7 ppg) against Miami's sixth-ranked scoring defense 
(6. 5 ppg), a defense which has allowed an average ofonly I 76.7 yards per battle on the ground and in the air. 
GETTING HIS KICKS-Notre Dame's resident hero­laureate, Harry Oliver, sits atop the national heap of field goal kickers. Oliver is tied for first in the NCAA with 2.0 field goals per game. Since his company at the top is Clemson's ObedAriri and Ohio State's VladeJanakiebski, Oliver is indisputably the top American. 
Likewise, the junior kicker is ranked 18th among the nation's Division IA scorers with an 8. 7 ppg mark. 
} 

MEGA-MILESTONES-Notre Dame's potent offensive display against Michigan State was one oftheir most productive in recent years. Their 71 rushing attempts were the highest for an Irish squad in 67 games since Notre Dame carried the ball83 times en route to a48-0 win over Army in 1974. Notre Dame's 405 yards on the ground were the most since the Irish ground out 545 in that same Army game. 
Notre Dame's 91 total offensive plays were the most since the Irish snapped the bal193 times vs. Air Force in 1978, and their 30 first downs matched the stick-advancing total in the same Air Force clash. 
A win against Miami would mark the best start for any Irish football team since the 1973 National Champions went undefeated. 
JUSTICE PREVAILS-Coach Rich Hunter 'and his Irish soccer team had the last laugh in Friday's game at Michigan State. Hunter lodged a formal protest of the Spartans 4-1 victory after it seemed obvious to him and the rest of the team that the officials were anything but objective. The stats backed up Hunter's contention (along with most observers), as the Irish were awarded eight yellow cards and two red cards while MSU did not receive one. The Spartans were also granted two penalty kicks for Notre Dame's "questionable?" behavior. 
Yet the really questionable behavior belonged to the officiating crew, and they have finally been tagged with a few yellow cards oftheir own. Since last Friday's game was the game ofthe week in this region ofthe NCAA, an official observer was present in the stands. Acknowledging the outrageously one­sided officiating of the referees, the NCAA upheld Hunter's protest at the recemmendation of their official observer and that loss has been wiped off the Irish slate, leaving their record at 9-2 heading into this afternoon's contest against Bethel. 
Having that loss stricken from the record is especially important for Notre Dame's playoff hopes, since the Irish were 
.. seventh-ranked and the Spartans eighth in the region heading Into the contest. Now that the loss has been erased, the Irish stand in good shape of receiving a berth in the NCAA playoffs, pending the outcome of their games with six-rated Miami and ninth-ranked Bowling Green within the week. Incidentally, the NCAA had had three previous protests concerning that same officiating squad at Michigan State, but this was the first instance where an NCAA observer was present. 
It's enough to restore your faith in the flag, Mom, apple pie and Bruce Springsteen. 
· IT'S THAT TIME 0 F YEAR-As ifthe snow in East Lansing last weekend were not enough, there is another reminder that winter is just around the corner. Varsity basketball practice for both men and women officially opens next Wednesday, October 15th, with media picture day slated for Tuesday. Digger Phelps' squad has already been finalized and Mary DiStanislao's team will be ready as ofthat date. 
The Irish men's team will be without the services of Tim Andree for the next six to eight weeks. The sophomore center partially tore tendons in his left ankle jogging around the lakes last week and should be in a cast for the better part of two months. 
That should give Irish fans a chance to see highly-touted rookie center Joe Kleine, a 6-11 behemoth from Slater, Mo. 
..... 







