
, , , Irish Extras-Page 8 

VOL. XIV, NO. 170 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16, 1980 
Murder alarms ND students 
by john M. Higgins at 9:45p.m.. available. 
Police said neighbors heard Students living in the area A resident of Sourh Bend was two shots at approximately 9 were shocked by news of: 
murdered in her Notre Dame p.m. and that a white and blue murder. "We're all frightened A venue apartment last night. Cadillac was seen leaving the to death,'' said Greg Meriaetll. Delmarie Britton, 28, was vicinity of the murder. A car "This is the second murder in 
found behind a couch in her matchmg the description was five weeks." "I walk through apartment at 1010 Notre Dame seen at approximately 10:30 this area alone all the time," Avenue across the street from p.m. near the Notre Dame post said one female student. ''I'm 
the Goose's Nest Tavern. She office. 
scared as hell. " was ·pronounced' dead at the Robbery was cited as a pos­"This neighborhood just isn't scene of a gunshot wound in sible motive for the killing. No safe," said Lou Moran, who is the back, by the county coroner additional information was compiling statistics for a study 

on off-campus crime for the student government. ''What if it were Thursday night and there were two or three hun­dred students out there. One stray bullet and it would have been all over.'' 
Informed of the incident, Off­Campus Commissioner Mark Kelley said, ''No matter what the circumstances behind the shooting may be, this crime indicates that we have a seri­ous problem right in the core of the student neighborhood. Some corrective steps are ne­cessary, especially regarding the relationship between the South Bend police, off-campus students and the University. Most students can only Student safety off campus must Where 's Spring? pray it is just around the be improved. corner. 
Existentialist Je~ -Paul Sartre dies 
PARIS (AP) -Jean-Paul Sartre, the German occupation of soul or meaning, and the only whose existential view of man France. The Roman Catholic freedom worth fighting for is as the maker of his destiny Church denounced it as a the freedom of choice. placed him among the giants of rejection of God, and the His earlier achievements 
Stokely Carmichael 
modern philosophy, died yes­French Communist Party con­made Sartre one of the most 
terday after a month-long demned it as a "bourgeois presttgwus playwrights and novelists in the French lan­
illness. ethic" intended to distract guage.
Cannichael speaks 
The 74-year-old French workers from the class He vehemently opposed the
writer-philosopher died at 
struggle. Sartre himself com­French war in Algeria in the
Broussais Hospital in Paris, 
plained he was widely mis­1950s and the American war in
surrounded by a few close 
understood.

against capitalisnt 
Vietnam. He gave his prestige 
friends, said one of those 
As a political lettist, part of 
present, Liliane Siegel, author to such causes as Lord
the misunderstanding was of
by Pam Degnan of a book on his life. Bertrand Russell's "War
Sartre'sown making. He liked
News Editor Crimes Tribunal'' during the
Others at the death bed, 
to think of himself as a Vietnam ·war and the Bader ­
according to Ms. Siegel, were 
''Capitalism deadens the thought process and must be feminist author and plavwright member of the proletariat, but Meinhof urban guerrilla 
most of what he said and wrote
destroyed," said Stokely Carmichael, the leader for the Simone de Beauvoir, Sattre's ·movement in West Germany in 
went over heads of his audi­
All-African People's Revolutionary Party; . close companion for most of his the 1960s and 1970s. 
ences.
Carmichael, who has adopted the ~fncan name ~wa~e life, and his adopted daughter, Sartre was born in Paris on Toure, told a moderate sized audtence last mght tn Arlette el Kaim. His doctrine held that only June 21, 1905. His father was Nieuwland Hall that the capitalist system exploits the masses Sartre was admitted to man's commitment to a cause, a naval officer and his mother, and prevents. the people from determining thei! o'Y"n future. Broussais March 19 for treat­his conscious participation, born Anne-Marie Schweitzer, "It is ridiculous to believe that under a capttahst system ment of pulmonary edema, an makes him different from was a niece of the philosopher, people have equal opportunitie~ i.n !if~. Ho'." can. one explain accumulation of fluid in the animals or inanimate objects. musician and jungle doctor why in the U.S. there are mtlhonatres wtth ml wells and lungs that hampered his He argued that man by himself Albert Schweitzer, who won paupers with rags on their backs?" the former Black Panther breathing. He died shortly is nothing? a creature without the Nobel Peace Prize in 1952. 
'
leader asked. after 9 p.m., 2 p.m. EST. 
Carmichael further explained that the capitalist system The iconoclastic Sattre was awarded the Nobel Prize for
tends to breed certain attitudes in college students. He At Campus View added that students are educated to believe that man faces Literature in 1964, but refused individual limitations which ultimately prevent him from to acceJ?t the pretigious prize to reaching his full potential. mark hts contempt for what he 
County blames students 
"Man is endowed with instinct," Carmichael said. "But called bourgeois honors. unlike an animal man has the power to think. Capitalism, Nearly blind in the last byjohnM. Higgins fireworks ignited a stack of however functio~s on the notion that man is an animal.'' decade of his life, Sartre had cardboard and papers being 
"The system intentionally confuses people, ~nd as a result, virtually given UJ? the writing An investigation by the St. stored in a small shed on the they do things without really thinking,'' Carmtchac::l shout~d. that had made htm legendary Joseph County Sheriff Depart­balcony of the second floor "Under this type of sys~em whic~ bree~s 10;~quahty, as an impassioned, though ment has concluded that the apartment. confusion and human suffenng, man ts an ammal. often ineffectual, defender of fire at Campns View Apart­Ralph Rogari, a Campus View 
The revolutionary explained that .his m.ove!lle~t (AAPRP) justice as he saw it. ments Thursday night was resident, said that when the fire has a three fold purpose. The ·maJor obJecuve -ls to coll~ct Sartre' s writings expounded caused by students setting off finally erupted at about 10:30 African students from college campu~e.s. across the na~IOn the theory of man as a respon­fireworks in their apartment. p.m., the residents panicked who understand that it is thetr responstbtltty to .help allevtate sible but lonely being, bur­Sergeant ] ohn McKallister and tried to put out the fire with the suffering of the African masses. The proJected goal of 
dened with the terrifying said that three Holy Cross buckets and hoses. "By the 
the AAPRP is to establish a united Afncan front under freedom of choice -the only Junior College students ''had time someone called the fire socialist rule~ . freedom worth fighting for, he apparently been playing around department, it was up to the He also cited the AAPRP attempts to raise the conClousness often said. with fireworks from early after­rafters and got a little out of level of every American man and woman. . Sartre first gave his definition noon to early evening, shooting control until the fire depart­
"We try to help make people think for t_hemselvc::s, ~~t thts of existentialism in ''L'Etre et bottle rockets out of the back ment came and put it out," is extremely difficult to accomp !ish m Amenca, Car­le Neant'' (Being and Nothing­patio doorway." According to 
[c~ntinued on ppge 61
michael said. ness), published in 1943 during McKallister, sparks fr9m the 


,.._ 
--------------------------------------~ 
News in brief 
Weather 
Clear to partly cloudy skies and pleasant temperatures Friday throu~h Sunday. Lows in the upper 30s and 40s Friday, and m the 40s to lo':"' 50s Sat~rday and Sunday. Highs in the 50s to low 60s Fnday, and 1n the 60s to low 70s Saturday and Sunday. 
~-·------------------------------------------4 
.CamJ?-u_s_ ______. 
~----------------------------------~ 
H:·l'>am SYMPOSIUM, richard eells CCE AUD. 
'Jam-4prn CI.INIC, blood pressure screening LEMANS LOBBY SMC. 
'Jarn-4: Wpm CAP AND GOWN MEASUREMENTS, ND BOOKSTORF. 
'J: 1 ')am LFC11JRE, ''who should make the crucial dn i-,1on)" dr. charles mckelvey, SMC. 
lOam SYMPOSIUM, charles wilber, ken jameson, denis gnul<"t. nd CCE AUD. 
IOam-4pm BLOOD PRESSURE SCREENING, student nurst·s club L.EMANS LOBBY. 
12-'>pm ONE EARTH MARKETPLACE, LAFORTIJNE 1\lt\IN LOUNGE. 
12: I 'ipm LECTURE, "solar energy" dr. kohn 356 ENGR. BI.D(;. 
12:1 ')prn SEMINAR, "regulation of the immune response in health & disease" GALVIN AUD. 
1 pm CONFERENCE, "telecommunications in higher 
eduration'' AV THEATRE CCE. 
3:30pm SEMINAR, nuclear fuel management 303 FITZPAT­RICK. 
.j: 20pm COLLOQUIUM, ''using nuclear spectros~opy, ?f the rare earths to study nuclear reactor mechamsms 118 NIEUWLAND. 
4: .~Opm LECI1JRE, . 'photo-induced energy & . e!~ctron transfer through des1gned monolayer assemblies 123 NIEUWI.:\ND. 
6-9prn ONE EARTH MARKETPLACE, LAFORTIJNE MAIN LOUNGE. 
6:30pm MEETING, alpha phi omega service fraternity I.AFOR11'NE LI1TLE THEATRE. ' 
<dOpm MEFTING, sailing dub 204 O'SHAG. 
6:.~0pm BANQUET, society of women engineers. 
. 

7, '). llpm FIL~I "murder by death" ENGR. AUD. -.Wpm I.E( TURE "planned parenthood & the march of dimes'" prof. rharlcs nee LIB. AUD. 
· -: ~Opm I.H TU RE "african culture in the new world" S L\ PI V. I"ON LOUNGE SMC. Hpm 1:\CROSSE MATCH, nd vs michigan CARTIER 
FIFI.I) ~pm J)I\.-\1\IA '"uncommon women" REGINA HALL SMC. ~prn Fll.\1 FESTIVAL.. CARROLL HALL SMC. ~pm CON( "ERT ted nugent ACC. Spm FIU-.1. ''six days in soweto" 210 O'SHAG. spm I.EC ll'RE "marx and religion" GALVIN AUD. 
H: 
15pm LECTURE AND FILM, "spain and the basque problem'' LAfOR11JNE RATHSKELLER. 

H: 
15prn LECTURE, "rhodesia-before and after indepen­dence" I.:\FORTIJNE RATHSKELLER. 


~:15pm EASTER PLAY "pilgrim" SACRED HEART CHURCH. 
I0-12pm MLSIC PERFORMANCE george dzuricsko & friends NAZZ. 
10: 30-lam MUSIC PERFORMANCE jeannie ritter SENIOR BAR. 
Wednesday, April16, 1980 -page 2 

SMC details new registration 
Saint Mary's is using a new procedure for advance registra­tion for the fall semester similar to the one Notre Dame has been using. 
Students are instructed to enter the registration area at the south entrance of Angela Athletic Facility and to bring their J.D. cards and fall sche­dule of classes booklets. I.D. cards will serve as students' official entry to register. 
Students should check in at the first table by showing their 
I.D. card and giving their 
. name. Notre Dame students should show their Form 50. 
Center announces 
•


semtnar 
Couples interested in en­riching their relationships may now enroll for the Couple Communication Seminar, which will be held May 8, 1), 22, and 29 at the Samaritan Counseling Center in South Bend. The sessions will run from 7 to 10 p.m. on each of the four consecutive Thurs­days. The registration fee, which includes all books, is $100.00. 
The Couple Communication program is not a counseling: service, but an educational program designed to enrich communication between people who are married, living to­
. get her, friends, or colleagues. 
'It emphasizes specific commu­nication skills for dealing with day to day issues as partners grow personally and build their relationship over time. 
Interested couples can con­tact Becky and Jerry Gudorf (288-9001) or the Center (277-0274) for registration and other pertinent information. 
The_Ohs.erY-er 
Night Editor: Danny Tarullo Asst. Night Editor: Mike J ans, Mary Leavitt Copy Editor: Kathy Casey Layout Staff. Patty Sheehan News Editor: Tom Jackman Sports Layout: Tom Schuster, Patsy "Beth Do I Get Paid?" Campbell Sports Copy Editor: Michael Ortman Typists: Carol Cornwall, Kathy Festin, Katie Bigane, Kathy Murray EMT: Kim Convey Proofreader: John Chausee ND Day Editor: Keith Melaragno SMC Day Editor: Sue Fuegner Ad Design: Paul Hurley Photographer: Beth Prezio Guest Appearances: John Smith, Ann ''I'm Checking Up On You, Danny" Monaghan, Shotgun, Mikey "I Love Patty" Ruhe, Bill Marquard 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation eriods. The Ob&erver Is published
g
y the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Students who participated in 
departmental pre-registration 
for majors will receive a list of 
the classes for which they are 
already pre-registered. 
Students should then pro­ceed to the departmental tables which are set up in the gymnastics area. From the department's representative, the student should request a class card for each section in which she wishes to enroll. Students who participated in departmental pre-registration for: majors will not need to obtain class cards for those courses previously selected and indicated on the list of classes. 
If a student should change her mind about a course for which she has already obtained a class card or for which she had signed up at departmental pre-registration, the student should report to the drop tab!~ . There, the student may turn m any unwanted class cards and drop any courses she may have selected at her departmental pre-registration. Students should not attempt to return cards to the department tables.' 
When a student has all of her class cards, she should sign her name and social security number on the back of each card at the tables along the exit corridor. She should then turn all of her class cards in at the Registrar's table. Students carrymg more than 18 credits should first see Teresa Marcy at ths;: Academic Affairs Table. 
When a student turns in her class cards at the Registrar's table, she will be given a pre-punched card authorizing her to have an I.D. made. The student should return to the gym for I.D. pictures April 24 and 2) from 8:30-11:30 a.m. and from 1:30-4:30 p.m. At this point, the registration pro­cess will be complete. Stu­dents should exit using the north door of Angela. 
Seniors to be will register from 4-5:15 p.m. and Juniors to be will register from 5:30­
6:45 p.m. on Friday. Sopho­mores to be will register from 
·4-5:15 p.m. next Wednesday. Students should refer to the advance registration schedule to determine the alphabetical 
order  in  which  they  are  to  
register.  Students may regis­ 
ter  only  for  themselves  and  

only according to this schedule. 

Student activities OHice -smc Deadline April 21st 




r-------------------------,
1 CHALLENGETHE ENTIRE 1 I CAMPUS IN AN ANTOSTOL I 

I BACKGAMMON I
! TOURNAMENT! ! 
I I
1 Wed.,Apri123-Sun.,Apri127 I I Regtstratton. . tn o· Halls , I
1 . mmg. IWed., Aprlll6 and Thurs., April17 I 
IENTRYFEE:$1.00 



Jl i 1 

!PRIZESWILLBEAWARDED! ~', I 

·--------------------------4 

applications for 
HOMECOMING
;. . 


CHAIRMAN "1980" 
are available in HE STUDENT UNION OFFICE 
DUE DATE is Friday April25. 
~----------------~--------­
The Observer Wednesday, April16, 1980 -~ge 3 

Byrne appoints ND graduate 

by Mary Fran Callahan Senior StaffReporter 

Chicago Mayor ] ane Byrne on Sunday appointed ] oseph Whelan, a Notre Dame alumnus (Government '76), to the position of her personal appomtment secretary--a job which pays $27,000 annually. 
Byrne, who has been criti­cized by reporters for her nepotistic tendencies following the appointment of her daughter Kathy to a public relations city job in Chicago, also appointed Libby Lamb (SMC '79) and Pat Vidir (SMC '79) to administrative positions earlier this year. The women are friends of her daughter.
The Rev_. Dr . .Robert Holder~ey debated the highly 
"I knew Kathy in college,"

controverstal sub;ect ofeuthanasza last night in a program 
Whelan said. "She was a
sponsored by ND!SMC Right to Life. See story on p. 5. 
freshman (at SMC) when I was 
[photo by Beth Prezio J 
· a senior.'' 
NDgrad tips off Aspen drug·dealers 
ASPEN, Colo. (AP) -Tucked up the Roaring Fork Valley 180 miles west of Denver, Aspen has always been a place where you could go tO get away from the rest of the world. 
For quite a while now, state and federal authorities have contended it is also a place where people can escape the drug laws enforced elsewhere in the nation, a place where cocaine and other drugs are 
plentiful.
And tor almost as long, the authorities have obtee to the attitudes of Pitkin County Sher­iff Richard Kienast, a philoso­
pher turned lawman who has refused to cooperate with . ~.~:ndercover narcotics investiga­tions. 
Kienast, a taller version of actor Richard Dreyfuss, holds a master's degree in philosopher 
-and theology from Notre Dame. In his campaign, he used a poster of a dove floating above a quotation from Thoreau: "Let everyman make known what kind of government would com­mand his respect and that will be one. step toward attaining
it. J J 
From that he was tagged "Dick Dove." He is not, he says, a dove on 
drug use -particularly cocaine which he calls "a very danger­ous drug." 
He also says, "Sure, I can be fairly certain that it (cocaine use) is going on in Aspen, but I also don't think there's any way to deal with,!t. Society's doing it not Aspen. 
That is the kind of remark that has enraged some ·state and federal officials and made them determined, the locals say, to make an example of Aspen. 
For six months, a federal grand jury in Denver heard allegations that the sheriff de­liberately tipped drug dealers to an impending federal raid last summer. 
The ~rand jury was believed to be mvestigating the entire sheriffs department and sev­eral other public officials. Last week it indicted a former depu­ty on a felony charge of distributing cocaine. 
FBI Special Agent Cliff Brow­ning said the investigation would be renewed with another grand jury within the month: 
"You don't expect me to give up," Browning said. "That's just the beginning." 
Three years ago, the people who live amid the mountains 

Seniors change Picnic 
by Kelli Flint Senior StaffReporter 
An enforcement of Univers­ity policy has resulted in a rescheduling of the Senior Picnic, according to Nick Schneeman, senior class presi­dent. 
Schneeman had originally planned two senior picnics, one on April 19 and another on May 10. "Approval for the picnics was denied by the administration,'' Schneeman said. ''The administration said that no more picnics with kegs are allowed on University pro­perty. Prior to this deciswn, only the senior class was allowed to have picnics with kegs because these students are over 21." 
Schneeman said that he was disturbed by the decision _on the _(Jicnics because of behavior at picnics held since last fall. ' 'I worked hard to successfully enforce responsible drinking at picnics this year,'' Schneeman said. ''There has been a great improvement over last year's situation. There have been no complaints from the admini­stration, no security problems, and no alcohol abuse problems this year." 
Schneeman said that a picnic will be allowed by the admini­stration on Tuesday, May 13, after fmal examinations are over. ''This picnic would replace the one scheduled to for May 10," Schneeman said. ''I was told that more under­graduates would be able to attend the picnic if it was held on May 10 during exams. As I see it, more undergraduates would be able to attend Tues-­day, after exams are over than on Saturday while they're still being given." 
According to)ames Roemer, Dean of Students; there are no new enforcements on the· keg policy for picnics. "We decid­ed to contmue a precedent ~et in the past by havmg the senwr picnic after the undergraduates have gone home,'' .R~emer said. ''To have the picnic for the seniors over 21 with beer during exams causes problems. Nick wanted to set a 'lew precedent. We asked him tG reschedule the picnic. Fr. Van Wolvlear told me that he 
[continued on page 4] 
surrounding Aspen elected Kienast their sheriff. In Denver, on the other side of the Continental Divide, Chief 
U.S. District Judge Fred Win­ner has been heard 1 to warn drug defendants to tell their friends that '• Aspen is a part of the United States" and subject to its laws. 
Richard Nathan, who heads the state's Organized Crime Strike Force, talks of "some very great philosophical differ­ences between ourselves and those in Pitkin County on what the laws are and how they should be enforced." 
The original allegation invol­ving Kienast stemmed from a news conference July 31, 1979, a week before the federal Drug Enforcement Administration culiminated a seventh-month drug investigation with the arrests of 32 alleged dealers ih Aspen, Basalt, Carbondale and Glenwood Springs. 
Pressed by reporters about whether the DEH was about to make drug arrests in the area, Kienast said the DEH had told him it was not doing any investigation in Pitkin County .. 
The sheriff says he made the statement because of rumors of imminent drug arrests in the area. But federal :ruthorities­claim that Kienast, by saying that there was not going to be a bust, was cleverly tipping off drug dealers that there was. They believe that Deborah Quinn, then deputy district attorney in Aspen, had rold Kienast of the investigation and that he devised a tricky means of spreading the word. 
Ms. Quinn, who was also a subject of the initial grand jury investigation, resigned her job to protest the distnct attorney's decision to use -undercover agents in further drug investi­gations. She has since been elected president of the Pitkin County Bar Association 
Ms. Quinn also prosecuted the county's forest drug case in more than five years last ) uly. With the help of testimony from several local residents, a guard at the exclusive Starwood hous­ing development was convicted of selling drugs to minors. Kienast says that testimony makes the conviction more meaningful than if it had come from evidenced gathered in an undercover operation. 
Such work is unethical, he insists, because "an underco­ver officer is put in the position of breaking the law along with someone else. When it's all over with he steps back and say~ 'I'm going to arrest you for doing this, but not myself.' " 
Wanda Smolinski, Byrne's former appointment secretary, will retam employment under the mayor as her personal secretary. 
Byrne promoted Whelan despite the fact that as former "administrative aide" to the mayor he was a subject of controversy in a scandal con­cerning an interview which occurred in his office, last year_ 
Whelan had been interviewed David Cintron, an unemployed divinity student and during the course of the interview, Whelan noticed that Cintron was carrying a handgun, which is an illegal weapon in the state of Illinois. 
When police questioned Whalen about the incident, he changed his story and said he was not certain that Cintron was carrying a handgun. Whelan's former duties as an administrative aide consisted mainly ofadvising the mayor in the area of health. "He was supposed to advise her on health matters in general," Richard Axelrod said. 
The Alumni Oft:ice, however, confirmed yesterday that Whel_an f;raduated in 1976 with a maJor 10 government. 
Although the press has call­ed Whelan's new position that of "the mayor's appointment secretary," Whelan yesterday defined his new job as one of "coordinating office appear­ances and schedulins." 
When questioned If he view­ed his new job as a challenge in light of his government backround, Whelan answered, "Yes, very much," but declin-.. ed to elaborate further. 
Whelan also actively cam­paigned for Michael Brady, · one of Byrne's top committee­ward men. "There isn't much to do now," Whelan comment­ed, referring to his involve­ment with campaign efforts. 
He did say, however, that he plans to campaign for Ted Kennedy's presidential bid in the fall. 

and tomorrow 
$50 DEPOSIT 
<non 
for S415 SENIOR TRIP to NASSAu· &the BAHAMAS 



DUE TODAY 
SMC deposits 6-S.Lemans 1 ND 
Deposits 11-2 Lafortune 
??? ANNE 7850 'MIKE 1623 OONNA4-1-4868 PATTY 4-1­


-::-. . ~ . .. . . ' 
The Observer 
.... Picnic 

[continued from page 3] 
suggested that Schneeman switch the picnic with the senior dunes party, which was originally scheduled for after exams.'' 
Roemer added that he would approve a picnic on Greenfield (upon Schneeman's request) with beer if it scheduled ·for 
sometime after other students ·have departed. 
Roemer also noted that there 
is no permission for kegs on 
University property anywhere. 
"If any students bring kegs on 
university grounds and security 
notices; them, the kegs will be 
confiscated and not returned '' 
PERFORMANCE: Manhattan Project 
at ~ 

Bridget McGuires 
• Wed. April 16th 
If you have a $10,000 job waiting for you, you could have an American Express® Card right now. 
Trade the card you've heen using every day t~ Jr the Card you'II he using the rest of your life. 
YllU 're a~ JUt to leave school andenter a whole new world. You've got hrreat expectations. So llm~:-. American Express. For you. 
1l1at's why American Express has created a ~JX~cial plan that reduces the usual application reLJuiremcnts-so you can get the Card before you hnish school. 
All you need to apply is a $10,000 joh or the promise of one. You'll and the well-
SBP Paul Riehle and his executive advisors are seen in route to an HPC meeting to 
discuss campus policies. [photo by Beth Prezio] 
traveled use for business lunches, buying clothes for work, paying for vacations-for all sorts of after-school activities. 
One of the surest ways to establish yourself is to start out as if y<Ju were already established. And just having the Card gives you the chance to establish a solid credit rating. 
So trade up now. Just pick up an application fom1 here on campus, or at a store or restaurant. Or call toll-free 800-528-8000 and ask for a Spe­cial Student Application. And set yourself up for next year before you finish this one. 
The American Express~Card. Don't leave school without it. 

Dull 
•


rece1ves fellowship 
by Patty Sheehan 
Dr. Martin H. Dull, associate professor of mathematics at Saint Mary's, recently received a faculty fellowship from the Lilly Endowment in Indianapo­lis. Dull is one of ten recipients chosen for the 1980­1981 academic year. 
The competition, limited to Indiana colleges and univer­sities, was open to able tea­chers in mid-career who pro­posed to diverge from their academic routine to pursue individually-designed pro­grams in the United States or abroad. 
Those selected for the endowment have professional development interests that can­not be adequately served by conventional fellowships. The Lilly endowment is supplemen­tary to Dull's sabbattcal salary at Saint Mary's. 
Dull will use his fellowship to support an academic year as Visiting Postdoctoral Fellow at the University of Chicago. He will read in the area of the history of mathematics and science and audit courses in intellectual history. 
Dull aims to devei.op inter­disciplinary perspectives that will bridge the gap between scientific and non-scientific fields of study. "When I explain to a class the theory of real numbers, I want to be able to relate it to the history and culture of the Greeks, and why they developed the number system, Dull explained. 
When asked if the endow­ment was a surprise, Dull replied, ''After looking over the other proposals of previous recipients, I had a pretty good idea that what I wanted to do was what they (Lilly) were interested in funding. I was more pleased than surprised." 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a maiority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the fr~e expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Ed/• r-ln-Chzef............ Paul Mullaney SMC NFws Editor ........... Mary Leavitt Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman Edltonals Editor ........... Mike Onufrak 
Features Editor .............. Kate Farrell Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Semor Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
Photo Editor ................. John Macor
News Editor .................. Pam Degnan News Editor ............... Tom Jackman 
Business Manager ......... Greg HedgesNews Editor ............... John McGrath Advertising Manager .. Mike Holsinger SMC Executive Editor .. Margie Brassil Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan 

------=---l 
The Observer 
Wednesday, April16, 1980 -page 5 
SMC Justice 
;c 


Course Offerings 
St. Mary's 
GOVERNMENT 
330 American Urban History lOIT12 Poinsatte 
No other civilization passed so rapidly from wilderness to an urban world, How do we account for the rise of American cities? What historical forces, what processes of urbanization played determin· ing roles? What impact did the American city have on Americap< government, culture, on society itself? What was the influence df technology and migration of peoples on the city? It is the primary purpose of this course to try to· answer these question. 
PHILOSOPHY 
244 Philosophy of/Law 10 MWF · Hawk 
· I 
f'he purpose of thi.s ¢~ass in the ph..iloS?P_h.y of l~w is to_ vie_w ~aw i_n_.__ tts philosophical stg,hifi~ance. Thts will occur to the analysts and assessment ot concr,t!te tssues such as: What lS the nature oflaw? What is the nature of legal liberty? What is justice? What is the nature and what are the limits to my respons~bility? __ What is th~t justificiation, if any of punishment? There will also be a special section of the course devoted to acts of conscience in their legal environment. 
· 

244C Philosophical Issues in Women's Studies 2TT4 Clark 
This course is designed to acquaint students with conteroporacy research in wo{Jlen's studies and to provide a forum for discussing issues in that research. Among topics of· discussion will be language, freedom, power and the self. 
RELIGIOUS STUDIES 
300 Christian Culture llMW ] ancoski, McDonnell, Mandell From the various perspectives of Religious Studies, Philt:~so.phy, and Humanistic Studies this course examines ways Chnsrtans; and Catholics in particul~r, have understood the relationship of the Gospel to cultural forms, human values, and social issues. Cross-listed with HUST 300 and Phil 300. Upperclassmen only. 
356 World Justice and Church 1IT3 Malirs 
This course focuses on the teaching of the Catholic Chur~h in relation to contemporary issues. of social justice. The biblical notion of justice IS examined in depth. Recent encyclicals, documents ofVatican II, and statements from national conferences of bishops dealing with social is~ues are st~died along with the writings of contemporary theologtans and soctal analysts. The role of various agencies within the Churc~ as _well as .volunteer associations of Christians concerned wtth problems ltke world hunger, peace, human rights, third world devflopmeot minor~ty groups, the situation of women_, ere. are exam~nea. f.long wah regularly assigned readings, flims, and meenngs wtth people directly involved in the ministry of soc~al justice,_ ~tudems will work in small groups on research concern tog one parucular current justice jssue of their choice ~wd write a major paper on that topic: 
SOCIOLOGY 
203 Introduction to Social Problems' 9Ttll, lOTT12, 1Tt3, McGee 
An examination and evaluation of (1) the nature of social problems and the ferspectives used to understand such problems, (2) the extent o selected social problems such as aging, crime and delinguency, substance abuse, suicide, divorce, child abuse, rac~al 
prejudice and discrimination, (3; the role of selecte.d soc~al, institutions such as the family, religion and education tn soetal problems and (4) the person~l. and societal responses made to social problems. No prerequtsttes. 
233 Social Work Policy and Service 9TT11 Pilger 
Development of social policy and service programs in re~ponse to changing social conditions. Focuses onlthe theory, history, scope, nature, organization and implementation forcurrent pro_grams on local, state and tederal levels. No prerequisites. Offered fall semester. 
305 Business and Society 9TT11 Hor:ning 
-

A systematic analysis and evaluation f~r the cul~ral and ~ial factors which shape the role of business rn our soctety. Matettal~ drawn from other societies are used as a basis for comparison,;;!, Illustrative topics include organi~ti?nal struct~r.e, power au!hor; ity, social responsibility, or~an!zatto~ ~havmr and ethtcs. • Prerequisite: Soc 1S3 or permtsston of'the tnstructor. ·Offered fall 
semester. 
355 American Minorities 12 MWF McKelvey 
' 

The study of the patte~sof.int~rgrouprelations jn var!ous societie!ii 
with special attentton to mtegratto!l, segreganon, ~~ltural 
pluralism and t<"mporary .accomroodanon. No prsrequtsttes 
Offered fall semester. I•• 
( 
) 
Holder bey vs. Espinosa 
Scholars debate euthanasia morality 
by Chip Block about the United States' atti­
tude towards euthanasia. 
"They shoot horses, don't Espinosa stresses the inade­they?" replied Rev. Dr. Robert qu~~ies of r,ro-euthana.sian,, de­Holderbey in a debate last night fimttons of close to dymg. with Dr. ] ose Espinosa over He pointed out that a low euthanasia. The debate, spon­reading on an EEG did not give sored by the ND/SMC Right to an accurate account of the life Life campaign, was held tn the left in a body. Espinosa Library Auditorium before a also mentioned that many doc­crowd of approximately 50 tors wish to kill infants they people. believe "defective." 
Holderbey's statement con­He concluded his presenta­cerned the putting to death of tion by outlinin1,1; the current patients who are suffering laws that deal With euthanasia severe pain and are on the brink and how he believed that many of dying. He used several of the terms in the laws were examples of ''hidious death,'' vague. where, according to him, ''I endorse the right to life," euthanasia should be applied. 
Holderbey said. "falso belit>ve in the right to die with dignity.'' 
The majority ()f Holderbey's speech were emotional stories about euthanasia cases. 
''The dignity is not in the death, but in the individual,'' Espinosa reJ?Iied to Holderbey's justtfi.cation for euthanasia. 
When t\le two paruopants accepted questions from the audience, Holderbey was im­mediately confronted by ques­tions concerning his religious faith. Many doubted his com­mitment to the Christian reli 
[contznued on page 6] 
The format of the debate 
gave Espinosa speaking time 
BLUE MANTLE 

first with Holderbey allowed an ~qual allotment of 25 min­
now accepting applications for 
utes to speak. After each participant had spoken, the 

Editor, Asst. Editor, Copy Editor,
floor was opened to questions. 
"If there are teo heads and 
Copy Writer, Photography Editor,
nine hats, do you get more hats or do you start chopping he~ds? 

·siness Manager
Unfortunately, our soctety sometimes chooses the latter," 
Student Activities Office-SMC
Espinosa, a professor at Case 
Western Medical School, said 

Deadline -A ril 21 

This weekend at River City Records... 






SPRING SAlEI 
-

Sl.OOOFFALLALBUMS, TAPES, BLANK TAPES & RECORD CRATES­NO LIMIT I 
(no coupon necessary) 
~ 

• 
All albums &tapes Sl.OO off-No Limit! 

• 
All blank tapes Sl.OO off-No Limit! (we cauy TDK, maxell, memorex and BASF) 

• 
S2.00 off Discwashers 

• 
Tap~ Cases one-half Price 

• 
All posters Sl.OO off (special album cover posters available) IJ 


·• Concert Tickets Available e Free Bo Derek and WffiET rock posters with purchase e ND/SffiC checks cashed up to $20.00 ovet putchase amount 
• 
Open until ffiidnight Thurs. -Sun. for sale! 

• 
Random TShitt Giveaways 



SALE HOURS: 
Thursday April17 6:00-midnight (~D/SffiC only!) Friday April18 10:00 a.m. -ffiidnight ,saturday Aprll19 10:00 a.m.-ffiidnlght 
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, Apri116, 1980 -page 6 

[continued from page 8] 8-4 record. 
Carlton's a senior, the captain, Harris suffered a minor groin 
and he's been at two for almost pull in yesterday's match but is 
four years. '' expected to play today. 
Prior to yesterday's match, This afternoon's clash with
... Tennis Harris had amassed a 9-3 Indiana will be a grudge match record at second singles includ­for the host Irish as they seek ing his last four straight. reven~e for last year's 6-3 McMahon had won six straight drubbmg in Bloomington. the at first singles and owned an Hoosiers stand 12-1 at present and are riding a seven-match winnin~ streak which includes a 5-4 wm over Wisconsin on Saturday. The 11-2 Irish have plar.ed two matches since then while the Hoosiers have enjoy­ed four days rest. 
Today's matchup•is slated for 3 p.m. at the Courtney Tennis Center, weather permitting. 

Molarity by Michael Molinelli 

~nesbury / by Garry Trudeau 
... Drills 
[continued from page 8] 

Nick' Vehr, sidelined with finger injuries Saturday, haven't missed any action since drills were postponed both Monday and Tuesday ... two seniors should be back in action within a week. 
Gibbons, an Academic All­American and two-year starter in the Irish defensive backfield, will provide Observer readers with a unique look at the remainder ofspring drills start­ing Monday when he begins a weekly column offering hi" views on t("am's progress. 

Film 
•


azrs tonight 

The film "Six Days in Soweto" will be shown tonight at 8 in room 210 of O'Shaugh­nessy Hall. The fim was produced by Anthony Thomas for I1V (Britain) in 1978. If focuses on the Soweto rebellion of June 1976 and includes interviews with several of the original participants in the uprising. The film will run for 55 minutes and a roundtable discussion will follow. Anyone interested is welcome . 
. . . Fire 
[continued from page 1] 

Rogari said. 
Campus View manager John Wilson declined to esnmate the damage, saying only that it was "nowhere near" the $35,000 estimate listed in the police report. 
The residents of the apartment deny that the fire was caused by 
fireworks.  "There's  just  no  
way,"  one  said.  "We  were  
only using  little  firecrackers,  
not  bottle  rockets,  and  we  
stopped  at  five  o'clock  when  

two girls came over. I can't believe that it smoldered that long.'' 
According to Chief Robe_rt Lindzy of the Clay Towns_htp Fire Department, Campus Vtew has had no other fires since the complex opened in 1974. "This is the first fire that we're aware of," Lindzy said, "other than a small one two years ago that was set in order to cover up a burglary.'' 
Campus View undergoes no regular inspection for fire safe­ty, Lindzy said. "It's a residen­tial area. We are not allowed to inspect unless the residents · request it." 



TIPPECANOE PLACE RESTAURANT IS NOW HIRING RESTAURANT PERSONNEL full or part time;day and night shifts high wages; excellent benefits training:classroom and on the job cordial atmosphere 
FOOD WAITERS AND WAITRESSES BUSBOYS/BUSGIRLS COCKTAIL WAITRESSES DISHWASHERS BROILERCOOKS HOSTESSES BARTENDERS PREP COOKS MAINTENA~CE MEN 
APPLY IN PERSON BETWEEN 9:00am S 6:00pm
MONDAY THRU SATURDAY 
AT EOE-M/F
TIPPECANOE PLACE 
620 W. Washin~ton Ave South Bend, Ind. 

St. Mary's Won1en: 
take time out for a 

RETREAT 
... Morality 

[continued from page 5] 
gion and his basic morals. 
Holderbey answered by say­ing that he believed that doc­tors whu try miraculous attempts to restor_e . a dying patient are defnvtng that person of his fina destiny. 
"We should go back to medicine's roots, the Hippo­
cratic  Oath,''  Espinosa  con­ 
cluded.  
Even  after the  debate  had  

ended, Holderbey and Espinosa continued to argue. 
,-:... "' . 
. --'---------\~­

--~------­
Wednesday, April16, 1980 -page 7 I 
1 
Calvin Murphy.over Dubuque's Demons... 
1
by 12 
Aggravated Assault over Slamdunkers... by 8 
Bookstore I
Baseball Hockey I 
I Tuesday's Results 
McGuire & the Aircraft over Water & 
Vinegar Douches...by 13 ~
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

HockeyDefending Chumps over Team X...by 11 
1
Kids Are Alright over Du's & Spu's...by 9 Stanley Cup Playoffs
Montreal 7, New York 3
Hill's Angels over Dr. K & The Shot-Dr. Dub & Stud's ov~r 5 Guys in Quarterfinal Round
Cincinnatti 8, San Francisco 3
glasses...by 5 Search ...by 8. Best-of-Seven
Houston 6, Atlanta 2 
Tonight's Games
Assasins over Buzz & the 4 Well ...by 13 
l
St. Louis 7, Philadelphia 2
Coneheades over Budwa's Buddies...by 9 
Los Angeles at San Diego (N)
Dillonese Skywalkers over Greek or Gothic 
Tennis 

N.Y. Islanders at Bostonby Forfeit AMERICAN LEAGUE
Stevie Wonder over Capt. Ahab ...by 11 N.Y. Rangers at Philadelphia Instant Diarrea over We'll Really Score Notre Dame 7, Purdue 2 • Chicago at Buffalo 
I
Baltimore 12, Kansas City 2
Alter The Game...by 12 Minnesota at Montreal
Texas 3, Cleveland 0
The Doctors over We Do It In Lofts...by 7 Singles 
Chicago 4, New York 3, 14 innings ...............••.....•....•....
Hoyne's Mobsters over Fog & Baxley's California 3, Minnesota 1 ... 1Mother...by 14 No. 1-Carlton Harris (NO) del. Bro 
Oakland 12, Seattle 3
Purple Pulsating Pillars over Pubsters Ballentine 6-1, 6-4. IV by 8 No. 2-Mark McMahon (NO) del. John 
Blitzkrieg over R.K. Graham ...by 9 Cochran 6-4, 6-1. 
Buy
Col. Bogey's TNC over Dan Hussey ...by 7 No. 3-Paul Cantrell (P) del. Herb ,.Back For More over Cheapest Giggolo's... Hopwood 7-6 (5-4), 6-3. 
.' 

by 3 No. 4-Mark Hoyer (NO) del. Felix 
Doobies Spark It Up over A.F. & the Amaya 7-5, 6-2. Basketball .. ' Oecomposers ...by forfeit No. 5-Tom Hartzell (NO) del. Dan 
Lights Out over Pin the Tail on the O'Connell 7-6 (5-4), 6-4. ObserverFunky ...by 5 No. 6-Tom Robinson (NO) del. Matt 
Fin &the DJ's over All the Pres. Men ...by Friedman 6-3, 7-5. NBA Playoffs9 
Last Night's Games 
Dismal But Daring over The Big Ones ...by 
Doubles Eastern Conference Semi-finals 18 Best of Seven 
Harry's Hand Job over SMC Draft...by 7 No. 1-Harris/Hopwood (NO) del. Smirks over High Five ...by 15 Ballentine/~ochran 7-6 (5-3), 7-5. Philadelphia 105, Atlanta 100 
classifieds 
Assholes-in-Action over Maturlty ... by 14 No. 2-McMahon/Hoyer (NO) del. Philadelphia wins series 4-1 ND Gigolos over Mon"go Loids lll...by 11 Cantrell/Amaya 6-2. 6-4. Backcourt General over Studs that Shoot... No. 3-Friedman/Phil Dull (P) del. Jim 
•····••··•········•••·•••··•····•
by 6 Falvey/Tim Noonan 6-4 4-6 7-6 (5-3) 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday, 10.00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail



Classifieds 
Notices 
Will do typing. NP.at, accurate. Call 287-5162. 
Professional typing. Reasonable rates Experience typing thesis, journal arti­"' 
cles. 291-0495. 
Typing Plus. Term papers, disserta­tions. Light editing, ghost writing. Literary search, bibliographies, genea­logies. Job resume service. Sliding rate scale based on lead time. Special discounts on full contracts for theses and dissertations. Aardvark Automa­tic Solutions/ P. 0. Box 1204/46624/ phone (219) 289-6753. 
Typing done in my home. University Park area. 277-3085. 

Lost&Found 
Lost: Room and mail keys ior rm. 420 Carroll (NO). If found, call Peter at 6829. 
Lost: Last Thurs. set of keys with brown leather strap and metallic scorpio pendant. If found, please call 3881 or 8111. 
Lost: 1 14 K. gold braided chain bracelet. If found, please call 7812. 
Found: A calculator in Rm. 303 in Engineering · Bldg. Call 4286 to identify.
----------------' 
Lost: HP-25 March 10-14 in Engineer­ing Bldg. Please return to lost and found or Dean's office. 
Found: Set of Computer cards-on the lawn in front of O'Shag. Claim at 0bserver office. 
Lost: Set of pictures from wallet. Please return. Randy 1735. 
Lost: 1 Math 125 Calculus book, 1 green Chemistry notebook, 1 green Calculus notebook, 1 yellow Eng. Probabilitynotebook. Lost on April14 
· 1n North Otmng Hall. Bline. 
Lost: One gold wedding band with inscription date of Oct. 2, 1869. Lost near LeMans. For reward, call Teresa at SMC 4432. 
Lost: Blue alpine backpack with Important notebooks and texts. Lost before break. Reward. Call 3324. 
Found: 1 small brown puppy, late Thursday. Call George 3059 or Brian 3057. 

For Rent 
Staying in South Bend for summer? 4-bedroom house for rent. Close to campus. Call Joe 6822 or Greg 6823. 
Off Campus housing, 6 bedrooms (with locks). Rented separately. Free laundry and kitchen. Superior rated. Available for Summer and Fall. 291-1405 House for rent Sept., 3 bedrooms, garage, air conditioner, near NO, $200 includes everything. 233-1329. 
Need male students (preferably) to share three bedroom house, newly remodled, all new carpet and partially furnished. Near NO. Call 289-7269 after 5 PM. 
Rooms-Now and/or Summer. $40 month. 233-1329. 
House for Rent near Notre Dame. 2 bedrooms, alum. siding, garage. References and Security Deposit, call 233-9088. 

Wanted 
Women's model 10 speed bike 287­4336. 
Ride needed to Miami U. or Cincinnati this weekend. Call Don 1479. 
Overseas Jobs-Summer/year round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $50Q.$1200 monthly. 
Expenses paid.  Sightseeing.  Free  
information.  Write  IJC,  Box  52-14,  
Corona Del Mar, Cal. 92625.  

I need 1 measley graduation ticket. Desperate!! Mick 8212 $$$$. 
Need ride to Miami of Ohio April18. Will share usual. Ride to Dayton, Columbus, Cincy, or Richmond area would help. Call 41-5710. 
Need ride to Davenport, Iowa April 16th. Call JK Julien at 1771. 
Attention: anyone Interested In living in South Bend for the summer and wants to live in a house, I need 2 housemates. House is on Eddy St. Call John at 6760. 
Will pay $1000 for McDonald's Menu­Mania stamp #202 or $100 for stamp $213. Bob 6801. 
Females to share local house for this summer. Erin 6967. 
Need nde to Chtcago thts Fnday. Must leave no later than 4:00 p.m. Please call Tim at 232-7314. Thanks. 
$$$Substantial Part time Income tak­ing short phone messages at home. Call (615( 779-3235 at ext. 547-N. 


For Sale 
Olympic ranchcoats for sale. An incredible buy at $22.00! Mens, Womens sizes. Call288-5891 evening. 
1977 Camara. silver, 28,000 miles, automatic on console, small V-8 gets 16 mpg city, stereo 8-track, $3600; 1978 LeMans, maroon, 20,000 miles, automatic, small V-6 gets 21 mpg city, AM-FM stereo-front and rear speakers $3200. Both are in excellent condition. 
Call Lewis at 1234 weekdays, or 288-2961 evenings and weekends. 
For Sale: Receiver 35 watts/channel. 2 1/2 year warranty. Call Greg 3678. 
For Sale: Smith Corona Electric typewriter. Like new. Best offer. 2 Pioneer car stereo speakers, $30.00. Must sell. Call Mike 232-7759. 
Lloyd's stereo. Turntable, AM-FM stereo, cassette deck, speakers. $120 or best offer. 4521. 
NEED CASH-Must sell Pioneer SX-680 stereo reciever (30 watts)­plus pair Advent/2 loudspeakers and Garrard 440 M turntable. This is a bargain, believe me. Call Steve 3047. 
For sale: Alvarez 6 string acoustic guitar. Call 6369 mornings. 

Personals 
Attention: Did your Mom or Dad graduate from N D or SM C in 1956-? The class secretary of 1956 has commissioned me to get a list of you all. Anyway, please call 8661 or 1715 at your earliest convenience and ask for Ceil. Thanks for your help. 
Get your computerized Biorhythm, $1, LaFortune Center, MWF 1-3 PM. 
Attention Freshman and Sophomores: Pursue a certificate program in Social Work while you earn your degree. For additional information, contact: Charles Martucci, 131 Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's College, Phone 284-4755. 
Attention ND-SMC community! Only 5 more days until Paul (that's Pawl) Somglofske's birthday! Get ready for a groovestone time' 
Christy, 
Thanks for Friday night. I had a real Groovest<lne time. Sorry for dropping you when we dipped. Bumstone! 
Paul 

The BLAS (Badin-Lewis-Alumni-Stan­ford mud VB team) will be back! Captain Barb, Kevin, Chris, Christy, Joan, Julie, and Paul (that't Pawl). Thanks for a memorable, albeit short season' 
Tim 

MB Roses are red Violets are blue You'll be the best And cutest doctor Rush ever knew. Congratulations, 
Your number one patient 
R.-9-8-6111:45 p.m. Thinking of you good luck on your mechanics. 4-12-80 7:00a.m.-M. 
Penguin, 
Remember me? The kid with the big nose? How about dropping a line sometime? I Miss You! 
Love, Stuck in Siberia 
Patti, none of your business! 
For those of you curious as to what IL YPL means. It's 6 Friday is the last day to order color shots of this year's basketball action. Call 8932 for details. 
Pat, Thanks for the great time at the formal. Kathy 
P.S. Keep practicing, you may make it as a Spinner yet! 
Mine. I didn't forget you. Happy 19th. Yours 
Get your computerized biorhythm, $1 LaFortune Center. MWF, 1-3 PM. 
ND-SMC Sophomores! Enter out Mixed Doubles Tennis Tournament­Sat. Aprn 19, behind ACC, 1 PM. $1 Entry for balls and refreshments. Limited places available. Call 6755 or 41-4819. 
Speedy Dee-'bee: 
All the AO 's wish you a belated happy 21st and good luck with your Senior Bar interview. Too bad we can't get baumed chez Dussine! You'll make up for it anyway, right? 
Would you like to remedy the weekend blahs? Are you in luck! There's a reunion of the Sex, Drugs, Rock 'n Roll gang this Saturday night at 621 Napoleon Street. Visit the infamous "mansion" and taste Ryan's punch while Neil entertains. Don't miss THE #1 party of the year! 
Dearest Toots, 
As las as my layout expertise on Thursday niles goes, it's-easy for me to keep it up because you keep me hard at work right into Friday morn­ing. And everyone here knows that you're the layout expert: you've taught me everything I know! 
Concerning your leadership quali­ties, i like a woman who can take control and dominate the way you can, but who also enjoys abuse the way you do. 
Finally, Toots, I've found that one of life's simple pleasures is seeing the sunrise with you every Friday morn­ing. Apparently, good things do come in (very, very) small packages! Anyway, you're just the right height for lots of interesting and enjoyable activities! Beware: Sooner or later, I'll collect what's been owed me for these past few months. 
· . Nick 
----~----------­
Yo Cookies Well we were cruising down south In a spinach mobile, And we ran into some cookies in a cookie mobile. We were out in far left So they figured that we 
Were on the perfect wavelength To be cookie groupies. And we had a great time, 
Despite the cookie,mobile Turning into green slime. After many attempts, The cookie mobile Brought us cookie recruits Back to the spinach mobile We all cooled out And caught a few buzzes And thanked the cookie in the sky­We'd avoided all fuzzes. 
Ann: Why do they call you "fingers"? 
A truly exciting tale. Have you thought of publishing it? • 
Dan Hussey is so ugly that when he was born the doctor turned him ove[ and said "Twins'" 
Hussey · UMOC 
Hey world, I'm in love with M.P.W. (alias L M.L.) Happy Thursday from Rome with love. Love that body! 
Love you always, M.P.W.L. Now are you turning red? 
The Boston Club of ND-SMC presents. 
Boston Red Sox 
vs. Chigago White Sox Baseball game on Mon. April 28. Cost is $15 [includes ticket, beer and bus]. Tickets are limited--1st com·e 1st serve. Non-Members also invited. Call Jim Giblin at 1528 for information. 
Dam Yocious. Dam Yocious. Dom Yocious-where art thou Dom Yocious 
Tonight I Neil Simon's "Murder by Death", Eng. Aud. Times: 7,9,11. Starring: Peter Sellers, Peter Falk, David Niven, Truman Capote, and more' 
Scholastic Ed. Board and writers mtg. Wednesday, April16, assignments for last issue. 
John McGrath: I really do know that you're not Mark. Sorry about that! 
cc 

Charles "Hollywood" Dyer for UMOC Chucky is Yucky 
LAP, Thanks a lot' I waited until 11:30 PM for Pizza and you' CAP 
Claire, Thanks for the great time Friday night. The Both of Us 
Many wet thanks to afl the Sunday morning celebrators and everyone else who made the day special. 
Love ya, Nanc 
Dear Barb-Thanks tor agreat prom. Happy 2 3 year anniversary. I love you Jake 
Oracle of Oelian, Q'est que ce un "Official Notice''? Lord Father 
Tom Haling and Bryan Staffin-' Remember, we don't get mad, we get even. 
BARRY* 

AN OUNCE OF APPLICATION IS WORTH A TON OF ABSTRACTION I LOVE YOU. 
FL"\TCHER 
To Bernie-our own ray of Hawaiian sunshine. Wish we could give you some in return, but hope you'll settle for warm birthday wishes instead. 
Love, Karen, Bob, Martha, Scott, 
Rush, Nancy, Barry, Jan, and lurch 
Hello Debra Shannon! 

• 

S~orts 
Bookstore action continues as crowds grow larger 
by Btl/Marquard Sports Writer 

Day 4 ... Bookstore Basketball held hostage by the weather... 
But no one seemed to care as crowds began to Jick up for yesterday's secon round ac­tion in the campus basketball classic. 
'' Then·were a lor more people watching the games today," offered Bookstore Commission­er Rob Simari. "The weather really be8an ro clear up for us this evenmg, and the tempera­tures are supposed to be in the 70s by Friday." 
A crowd of over 200 watched t~e defending ~?amp ''Defen­dtng Chumps · dtspose of "Team X" 21-10 on the Book­store courts. Dan Short led "'Chump" scorers with a 7-for­11 shooting performance, while teammates Bill Hanzlik and Tom Sudkamp chipped in five apiece. One of Hanzlik buckets was an unconventional running jumper from just under half court. 
In other tourney highlights, ''AI McGuire and the Aircraft Carriers'' flushed out the "Water and Vinegar Douches" 21-8 on the Lyons courts. The "Carriers" were paced by Mike Boushka's 7-for-11 shooting performance, while sophomore marksman Pete Crowe pum­meled the nets at a 6-for-8 clip. 
''The tournament has been very competitive so far, and we are expecting continued excite­ment in the rest of the games," said Simari. 
Today's top Bookstore offer­ings feature ''Much Later WEB" on Bookstore 9 at 5:30, followed by the ''Butcher Bro­thers'' on the same court at 
6:15. "Strappamasquon and the Combat Wombats" open their Bookstore season on Book­store 10, also at 6:15. 
Wednesday, April16, 1980 -page 8 

Bookstore action continued to intensify Tuesday despite the poor weather conditions that prevazfed. [photo by R]D] 
Weather halts drills again 
by Craig Chval Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's spring drills were cancelled by inclement weather for the fourth time in a week Tuesday, as muddy grounds and blustery weather prompted head--coach Dan Devine to call the drills off ... weather permitting, the Irish will work out Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and twice on Saturday ... Devine and his staff still haven't scheduled the team's first scrimmage of the spring, as the coaches have been very pleased so far by what the squad has accom­plished during teamwork ses­sions and other drills. 
One positive note about the miserable weather is that the Irish have yet to suffer a serious injury during their abbreviated drills ... tri-captain Tom Gibbons and tight end 
(continued on page 6J 

Buchananstrivesforfull recovery 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Wnter 
Orce upon a time there was a coach named Dan Devine at a sr hool called Notre Dame. Dan vas a football coach and Notre 1 >arne was a school that cared 

' 
' 1bout football. 
'
' 
Well, one day Coach DevineI 
' 
I .vas studying his roster for the upcomin~ season and he rubbed hts hands in glee. His delight was caused by a runner 
'
I named Vagas who could run, 
I run, run and a blocker named Pete who could block, block, block! 
..New." Coa.. h Devine whis­I' pered to himself, "with Vagas running 1nd Pete blocking, we 
' 
~ 
' 
should gai.1 lots of yards, score I 
lots of po;l't.' and win lots of 
' games.'' ll·e thought made 
' him very h'1pf-Y. 
' 
' But then s<.-rnething hap­pened that m<:a 1e him very sail' In a preseas m scrimmage, Vagas was lUIInir g and Pete was blocking and P, ·te fell down and didn't get up. There was pain on his face aor!. he doctors said it was a brokt n ankle. As they carried Pete otf he field, Coach Dan saw all o{ !.is plans for the upcoming st:asor evap­orate into the misry d;w·pness of the cool autumn a ·tern<>'"~n. 
"I knew when I die it that it hurt baJ,'' recalls Pt tl Buchan­an who would proba~ ly like to · forget the whole incidl '1t. "The 1njury was worse than a.·y I'd ever had. I'd broken .1 "imall bone in the leg above IU} left 10kle anJ there was lig.•n.~nt 
lamage on both sides of :he 
tnkle." 

BuLhanan was operated on by team surgeon Leslie Bodr.ar and rhe i.1itial l;rognosis was that he W<>uld be able to play again. But it was gonna take alot of time and alot of work. 
"At first I was pretty down, but I never thought that I wouldn't be able to play again." admits the sophomore from nearby Plymouth, Ind. "Theycame up with a rehabili­tation routine and I started it two weeks after rhe operation.'' 
What the routine consisted of 'was a whirlpool to return flexi­bility to the injured ankle. The doctors provided a cutaway cast that Buchanan could slip on and off to take the whirlpool. 
"I did that for about 12 weeks," he remembers, "along with stretching and flexibility exercises to get my strength back. I also did alot of long distance running to build it up and now the ankle is about 90 percent of what it was before the injury." 
But Buchanan isn't satisfied with 90 percent. He's shooting for a full recovery and he is optimistic about his chances. 
"Right now, I'm mostly ob­serving during spring drills," he points our. ''Alot of my time. is spent remembering what I forgot. For instance, every day before practice they put in some new plays and I try and stay on top of that so I can start practicin,g and not be too far behind.' . 
Presently he is being held out of contact drills and team work and is pracucmg in sweats. He prob.1bly will not be ready for pads and contact until fall workouts begin in August. 
''I'm going in for another examination next week,'' he reveals. "If everything is all right I might put on the pads and start a little indivtdual drills. But I doubt if they will let me scrimmage until the fall." 
And then Buchanan will set about the task of winning back the starting fullback spot that was his before the injury. That, he believes, will be the tough­est recovery of all. 
''I'II have to come back and prove myself all over again,'' he says. "That won't be easy because we have some very talented people at that position. But I'm gonna try and I think I can come back to full strength.' 
Once upon a' (;die: about one year later as a matter of act, ~oach Dan was again looking at his roster and scratching his head. Vagas the runner was gone and that was gonna hurt. But then he smiled because Pete rhe blocker was back ... 
And that was onna help. 

Tennis team extends streak 
by Michael Ortman Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame tennis team ran its winning streak to ten straight yesterday afternoon with a 7 · 2 drilling of visiting Purdue in the final tuneup for this afternoon's showdown with 3ig Ten powerhouse Indiana. 
"I'm always happy with a win," said Irish coach Tom Fallon, "but we had a lor of bad shot:'> today. I hope-I thihk we got them all out of ou.r srstem. J' m just glad we dtdn t play Indiana, today." 
Altho.1gh the rains (and snow and sleet and... ) had stopped prior to the 3 o'clock st3:r~ing rime, rhe blustery condltlons forced the match into the ACC. It was the ninth indoor contest for the Irish in 13 outings this season. 
Wins at tmmber one and number two doubles got the Irish _off to a fast start, as they took a 2-1 lead into the singles competitions. The number three duo of Jim Falvey and Tim Noonan lost a tough three­setter to Purdue's Matt Friedman and Phil Dull. After splitting the first two sets, Falvey and Noonan battled back from a 0-3 defecit to tie the score at six, o,nly to fall short in the tie-breaker, 5-3. 
In singles, senior captain Carlton Harris and freshman Mark McMahon swapped posi­tions and played one and two respectively for the first time this season. The switch didn't appear to affect their play (howev~r) as each coasted to straight set victories. 
''Carlton has beu1 playing extremely well lately,'' ex­plained Fallon. "I just thought he deserved the chance to play number one. McMahon has been playing very well too, but 
[continued on page .6J 


Irish 

Extras 


by Bill Marquard 
Notre Dame's women's basketball sensation, Shari Matvey, 
was named to the 10-player AlA W Division III Region Five 
all-star ream, a first-ever feat for a female Irish hoopster. 
The Youngstown, Ohio freshman virtually rewrote Notre 
Dame's record book en route to a second-place position on 
the Irish career scoring list. 

Matvey set school standards for scoring average (17 .6 ppg), 
points in one season (529), rebounding average (10.2), 
rebounds in a season (305), field goal percentage (. 582), field 
goals made (237) and field goals attempted (407). She also 
rejected a record 85 opponents' shots in her rookie year. 
MOOSE AWARDS -Congratulations to Athletic Director 
Edward "Moose" Krause on being honored last night as 
"Man of the Year" by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph 
V1.lley. It seems that most of .the club's membership 
assumed that Krause had been a past recipient of the award, 
but when their current president noticed that Krause's name 
was absent from the hst of past honorees, he offered the 
appropriate accolades. 

The same club is sponsoring their annual Rockne Memorial Mass and Breakfast this Sunday, April 20. The featured speaker will be Jim Crowley, the last living member of Notre Dame's famed "Four Horsemen." Other guests will be Krause and football captains Bob Crable, Tom Gibbons and John Scully. The cost of the affair, which starts with Mass 
8:30 followed by breakfast in the South Dining Hall at 9:30, is $3 per person, and reservations may be made by calling 232-7946 during the day or 234-8279 in the evening. 
MAT TALK -The search for a new Irish wrestling coach is still in progress. Physical Education Department Chairman Dennis Stark is still reviewing applications for the position vacated last month by Ray Sepeta. It is expected that the­new coach will also serve as physical education instructor ... The w.omen's tennis coaching space will also be open next year smce J ory Segal will not be returning either. 
HEADS UP -Sophomores John Iglar and Fred Kitziger were ~hosen to captain the Irish wrestlers next year. Retinng captam Dave Disabato, who owns a 
Notre Dame record 104 victories among numerous other records, was honored as the most Outstanding Wrestler at the team's annual banquet... 
Freshman Susan Valdiserri was chosen to Captain Mike DeCicco's women's fencing team during their 1980-81 campaign .. .Johm Komora and Dave Campbell will serve as co.captains for Notre Dame's 1980-81 swimming season. Komora, a three-time Most Valuable Swimmer, was the captain of this year's squad. 
Title X -"The Doctor and their Nurses," one of the 384 Bookstore teams this year, has already won two games with a two-women, three-man roster in the otherwise-male tourney. Missy Conboy and Maggie Lally, veterans of the women's varsity basketball team, have helped the "Doctors and Nurses" to the quarterfinals of their sectional. It is too bad, but surely one of the alphabet organizations (HEW, NCAA or AlA W) could find a way to tax, regulate or outlaw such an innocent arrangement. 






