, .Notre Dame -page 8 
VOL. XV, NO. 55 
America 
•
a watts Iran's reply 
WASHINGTON (AP)-a five-man U.S. negotiating team was called home from Algeria Tuesday night after delivering the Carter administration's reply to Iran's terms for freeing the 52 American hostages. 
Prospects for opening a hoped-for "dialogue" with Iran through Algerian intermediaries were not clear. Administration officials, not expecting a prompt reaction from Tehran to the U.S. reply, decided to end the brief mission to Algiers. 
During two days, the U.S. team, headed by Deputy Secre­tary of State Warren M. Christopher, explained the legal and financial problems facing the United States in meeting the terms set down Nov. 2 by the Majlis, the Iranian parliament. 
The Americans left with a commitment from Algeria to quickly transmit the U.S. res­ponse to the Iranian govern­ment, the State Department said in a terse announcement here. It gave no indication whether the 
mission  was  considered  a-suc­ 
cess.  
(continued on page 10}  

james Gorman, penalinstitution expert, spokeyesterday at a Mary's Student Government luncheon. See story on page 4. (Photo by Beth Prezio) 
Shaky ground 

Reagan to review MX missile 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) ­Already on shaky ground due to spiraling costs and stiff opposition in Utah and Nevada, the MX missile system propos­ed by the outgoing Carter administration appears headed for an overhaul by thge incom­ing . Ronald Reagan and his advisers. 
"I'm not going to be tied to it," said William Van Cleave, Reagan's senior defense advis­er and spokesman on MX matters. 
His boss, in a campaign 
apperance this summer promised a full-scale review of the MX if he were elected. 
Reagan  carried  both  Nevada  
and  Utah  with  ease  in  last  
week's election.  

The first MX missiles would not be deployed untill986, and that's if the project proceeds on schedule. President Car­ter's pro~osal was devised with SALT II tn mind, but SALT II chances for Senate passage were poor even before Republi­cans won control there. 
The Carter administration has proposed basing 200 MX mis­siles on tracks to be shuttled among 4,600 shelters dug into the vast desert of Utah and Nevada--a space which would cover the combined areas of Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut and Rhode Island. 
Huge trucks would haul the 95-ton missiles, each of which would carry 10 warheads 100 times more explosive than the bombs dropped on ] apan in 1945, along 8,500 miles of heavy-duty roads as yet un­built. 
Cost estimates of Carter's proposal range from the Penta­gon's figure of $33.8 billion to $68 billion by the General Accounting Office to more than $100 billion in other quarters. 
Air Force Brig. Gen. Guy Hecker has called the MX "man's largest project, larger than the Great Wall, larger than the Pyramids, larger than the Alaska Pi~eline or the Panama Canal.' 


That's what bothers the people of Utah and Nevada. 
Residents in eight Nevada counties affected by the MX overwhelmingly reJected the project in a referendum vote Nov. 4. 
Utah's MX coordinator, Ken Olson, said he fears the project would dot the desen with trailer camps, swell the welfare rolls and send inflation soar­mg. 
In Utah alone, it is estimated the MX project would draw at least 125,000 jobseekers and dependents--many of whom would not be able to get MX. jobs--to a rural area now home to about 60,000 people who work mostly in mimng and agriculture. • 
Olson points to the Alaska 

:WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1980 
Pipeline project as an example of what Utah and Nevada can expect. The government told Alaska to expect 5, 500 work­ers. 

Demos give Republicans 
'opportunity' to make good on campaign pledges 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The House Budget Committee ignored Republican protests yesterday and passed a binding federal budget ceiling that would obligate President-elect Ronald Reagan to cut federal spending by 2 percent. 
The resolution, which would affect all federal spending except that Tor defense, was sent to the full House for a vote during the lame-duck session that begins today. 
Democrats answered criticism by saying they were just giving the incoming president an opportunity to fulfill campaign pledges. 
"Mr. Reagan has said that a 2 percent cut can be made in 1981 solely through the elimination of-and I quote-'waste, extravagance, abuse and outright fraud'," said Rep. Robert N. Giaimo, D-Conn., the committee chairman who offered the plan. 
The2 percent cutwas added to a resolution setting a binding federal budget ceiling for fiscal1981. Reagan would have to decide how to make the cuts after he takes office in January. 
Committee Republicans refused to participate in the 14-0 vote approving the cut. Rep. Delbert L. Latta of Ohio, the ranking Republican on the committee, voted "present." 
Then there was a 14-8 party-line vote approving the full measure. 
Latta said it was "just unfair ... to rush this through." 
Before the vote, Senate Republican Leader Howard Baker of Tennessee said Giaimo "is playing political games with us", in pushing the spending cut before Reagan takes office Jan. 20. 
" .. .It's up to the Reagan administration to take their first fair shotat it, not to Giaimo or any other Democrat," Baker said. "Itis Reagan's turn at bat, the country gave him that." 
Baker was interviewed on the ABC-TV program "Good Morning America." • In an opening statement to his panel, Giaimo countered: "I am not attempting to sandbag the new president. 
"Mr. Reagan has said that he can make such a (2 percent) cut without harming the American people," Giaimo added. "That will not be simple to do, but it is a challenge that the President-elect has posed for himself. We should give him the opportunity to meet that challenge.'' 
Fiscall981 began Oct. 1, but Congress, bogged down in election­year politics, has not approved a binding budget resolution, as required by its rules. The 1974 Budget Act calls. for congressional passage of the binding budget resolution by mid-September. 
A draft of the budget resolution drawn up by the Committee staff called for a $648.7 billion budget with a deficit of$38.4 billion. The plan approved by the Committee would reduce spending to $631.7 billion, leaving a deficit of $25 billion. · 
New women'S dorm 
'P-W' Hall to open in spring 
Father Michael Heppen, direc­tor of student housing, an­nounced yesterday the dates and procedures regarding interhall transferals and room picks for the new women's dorm, Pasquerilla West, to open this spring semester. 
The priority for room picks in the new dorm will be, in order, residents ofVilla Angela, women in temporary residency in Badin and Walsh halls, women students on the waiting list, and women transfers who will be entering in the spring. 
No women students currently residing on campus will be al­lowed to transfer to the new dorm. Says Heppen, "The reason is that there will only be two floors of that hall open in the spring semester." 
Room picks for the new dorm will be decided by lottery on November 17 for students of Villa Angela. The picks will be held in the dining room of Villa Angela at 7:30p.m. 
Those students living in tem­porary quarters in Badin ·and Walsh will have the opportunity to pick rooms in Pasquerilla West on November 18 from8:00 
a.m. until5:00 p.m. in room 315 of the Administration building. 
On November 19 women stu­dents on the waiting list may choose rooms in Pasqurilla 

·West. The order ofchoice will be determined by position on the waiting list. The room picks will 
... there will be only two floors open ... 
be made from 8:00 a.m. until 
5:00 p.m. in room 315 of the Administration building. 
Other students wishing to make interhall transfers must do so from December first through December 19. The moves will be made on a space available basis. 
Applications for transfer will be accepted in the Housing Office in the Administration building. Requests made after 
5:00 p.m. on December 19, will not be honored. 

The applications must meet certain requirements. The signa­ture of the rector of the hall where the student currently re­sides is necessary to ensure that the transfer is not due to disci­plinary action. 
The signature of the rettor of the hall to which the student intends to transfer to is required, showing that the rector is willing to have the student live in that hall. 
Finally, a statement by the student giving the re_ason for the transfer is required. The Housing Office notes· that students are usually expected to reside in one hall for their undergraduate edu­cation, but that there may be valid reasons for a transfer. Such a reason would be freshmen who were not assigned to the hall of their choice. 
The changes will be made during the Christmas break. Students should check with the offices of Student Residences prior to returning injanuary for their new assignment 

t­
i / 
Wednesday, November 12, 1980 -page 2



NewsBrieb 
~b=y~T.=o~e~O~b~u=r=w~r!a:n~d~T.~o~e=A~n:o:a:at:ed~P=ff=rr==f=~lns~~i~d~e~~~~f(h}~==e=s(La~==Y================================================:J 
Voyager I, onedayfromitsremlezvouswithSaturn, 


See you in court
astonished sctentists yesterday with pictures oftwo misshapen ringlets setamid the planet's concentric rings af'd what may be a 
huge hill onone ofits 15 frozen moons. The two-ton spaceship, on a journey of 38 months and 1.24 billion miles, was to skim within 2,500 miles of the biggest moon, Titan, late yesterday before making its closest encounter with Saturn today. After passing near the red-orange clouds of the dense atmosphere of Titan, the ship was to probe the mysteries of the moons Teths, Mimas Enceladus, Dione, and Rhea following its Saturn fly-by. Bradford Smith, leader ofthe Voyager camera team, told a news conference, "The mystery of the rings, the structure and the mechanism thatgoverns the structure keepsgetting deeper and deeper to the point where we're thinking of it as a bottomless pit." "We have been imagining all the thingswemightsee in the rings, but the thing I least expected to find were eccentric rings," Smith said. He added that Voyager, sailing within a million miles qf the planet Tuesday, showed two imperfect rings. Saturn's rings, a vast sheetofsnowball-like debris, already have been revealed by Voyager as a complex system, with dozens of small ringlets forming perfect circles within circles. Smith had said earlier that even the series ofconcentric ringlets cannotbe explained by traditional theories ofring structure. ­
AP 

An American pastor of Latvian descent jammed plastic needles into hts veins yesterday, spilling blood on a Soviet flag "for all the oppressed people of the Soviet Union" before an astonished crowd of diplomats attending a 35-nation conference on detente and human rights in Madrid, Spain. The Rev. Maris Kirsons of Philadelphia was seized by police and later released without being charged. Four uniden­tified Americans, 18 other foreigners and 21 Spaniards were ::! crested in other demonstrations coinciding with the confer­ence to review the 1975 Helsinki agreements on human rights and detente, police said. They were charged with disturbing the peace and staging illegal demonstrations, police said. Blood pumping from his veins, Kirsons, 40, pastor of the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church, stood on the home-made Soviet flag and told those gathered outside the conference hall: "This Latvian blood is being shed in Madrid on a communist flag to protest against Soviet genocide in Latvia and the other Baltic states." After his release, he told reporters: "I feel fine. I would do it again, ifl thought this would bring the plight ofthe Baltic states before the conference." The protestwas one ofseveral as the preparatory sessions for the Madrid meeting to review the Helsinki agreements on human rights and detente remained stalled after nine weeks ofEast-West deadlock over how much time to devote to human rights.-AP 
When Fr. Ernan McMullin, 
director of the hi~ory and philosophy of science program at Notre Dame watches a Voyager I flyby ofSaturn today he will be thinking of the first man ever to see the planet-'Galileo. A specialist on Galileo and author ofa definitive study ofthe 17th century astronomer McMullin recalled in an interview the day in July, 1610, when Galileo turned his telescope on the planet. "GalileJ's telescope, gave only a magnification of32," McMullin said, "and he thought he saw not one but three bodies close together in a straight line. The two small satellites on either side of Saturn were really rings seen broadside on. Two years later, Galileo was even more astounded when companion bodies 'disappeared,' having become edgewise to earth." It was not until the middle the middle of the 17th century that a Dutch astronomer Huyghens using a much more powerful telescope, discovered Saturn's rings a prime object of the voyager flyby. McMullin will view Voyager's photographs as a guest ofNASA at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasedena Calif.-The Observer 
Vice President-elect George Bush an­nounced yesterday that retired Adm. Daniel]. Murphy will be his chiefofstaffafter he takes office Jan. 20. Bush also said Peter 
E. Teeley, who was his press secretary during the presidential campaign, will remain in that job. Jenifer A. Fitzgerald will be the new vice president's appointments secretary. Murphy currently is deputy undersecretary ofdefense, a posthe has held since 1977 when he retired from the Navy. Previously, Murphy had served as Bush's deputy when the vice president-elect was 
• CIA director. -AP 
Mostly sunny and a little warmer today with highs in the upper 40s to low 50s. Fair and not so cold tonight [ with lows in the mid 30s. Partly sunny and mild tomorrow with highs in the mid to upper 50s. -AP 
The_Ohs.erY_er Design Editor ... Scoop "I miss you, Jane" Sullivan Design Assistants.... Patty "the" Fox Kevin "is a" Korowicki Day Technician ... Bruce"pickin' and grinnin' Oakley Night Technician ......... Mike Jans News Editor ... Lynne"KliegLights" Daley Copy Editor •... The incredible Erin Courtn~y SportJ Copy Edttor .. . Chris Needles Typists' . ........... Bridget Bloechl Marilyn Broderick Systems Technician ............. Bob ND Day Editor . ... Pulchritudinous Molly Noland Ad Design ........... Woody & Co. Photographer ........... Beth Prezio Guest Appearances ... .John McGrath Margie Brassil, Pam Degnan, John Higgins  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer. P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved.  

,.
• 


011-0AIIPUS S!UDBR!S 

Oam:pu~ !ele:phone Books Will Be Available !o You Bovember 11, 18, · • 14 9:00 am to 
4:00 :pm Student Government Offices lnd lloor-Larortune · 
• 0•1 BOOK PIB HOUSI


r .. 

,UN REPOSSESSIONS FOR SALE:~ 
Min Bid:
Cll 

1978 Ford Ranger w/ Blade Lift $4,500 1978 Chevrolet Blazer 5,000 1977 Dodge Van-Psg 3,500 1977 Chevrolet Monte Carlo 2,250 1977 Chrysler Cordoba 3,000 
Contact: 


R.G. Reed University ol Notre Dame Credit Union 283-4454 
• 

The University of Notre Dame a sexist in­stitution? Heaven and Hesbutgh forbid, right? Could we possibly be talking about the all­American school where justice and equality emanate from the bright light of the Golden Dome? · 
Yes, it seems that there is some trouble brewing in Domerland. It appears that some people feel this university has a mighty problem with dishing out equal benefits and rights to itsftmale faculty members, inside and outside the classroom. At least that'.s what sixty-sixfemale faculty members have to say. And they plan on having their say in a 
U.S. District Court two weeks from now. 
Notre Dame is being sued. The University is being slapped with a sexual discrimination suit in which they are charged with systematically deny­ing women faculty members tenure on the pre­mise that they are female. Still, others claim that they have been denied jobs, again, on the premise that they are female. 
·This problem began ten months ago when Dolores Frese, an English prof, initiated a class action sexual discrimination suit against the University which potentially included 129 past and present women faculty members. During the pre-trial hear­
/ ing last spring, however, the road ahead appeared rough, tensions in the fac­ulty department were on· the rise, and in the end sixty-four of the potential complaintants opted out of the suit. Those women opted out of the suit be­cause "the University had a life and death control over them," said Charles· Barnhill, the Chicago at­torney representing the Frese lawsuit. 
As is the case with most lawsuits, legal mumbo­jumbo is the status quo and therefore, presents much confusion for the average intelligent being. The bottom line of this lawsuit lay in answering why tenure is being constantly denied to women professors. What exactly is tenure, you ask? 
Tenure is, according to the Notre Dame faculty handbook,the permanence of appointment. Its purpose is the protection of academic freedom. Additionally and more importantly is the fact that those who are professors or associates will not be retained without tenure for moreoothan four years. So ifyou are not tenured after this time allotment then you're out. 
A point to note is that out ofapproximately 130 women faculty members, only six are tenured Five of those six women, however, hold admini­strative positions-only one is a member of the full-time teaching staff. Another point ofinterest: the last time the University's tenure policy was challenged, in the suit of Professor Emeritus 
Charles Danahey, the plaintiff lost his appeal. 
The University, itseems, does not hold tenure in high regard. Especially when it concerns its female teaching staff. Placing sex discrimination aside, one can argue that by not having a significant number of tenured profs, the University can ensure that its faculty staff will be constantly changing, consequently bringing in new ideas. Or one can argue that by having tenured profs, the University is ensured of having a stable and consistent faculty. 
The University tenure policy is vague and ambiguous. The Frese lawsuit charges that Notre Dame approaches tenure with a revolving door policy-that the women profs are continually 
e;iven the go-around when it comes to receiving ten­ure. 
Rumor has it that both 
r-·L., 

sides are looking for an out-of-court settlement. So far, however, both for­
) ces are still sitting on op­posite sides of the fence and probably will remain so. 
It looks likeNotre Dame is going to court. Will the ques.tion of tenure be re­solved? Will the question of tenure be defined for women profs at Notre Dame? 
See you in court on the 24th. 

Observer Notes. __ 
As apublic service, The Observer publishes short press releases, better known as blurbs, submitted by campus and local organizations. All blurbs must be turned in no later than 1 
p.m. of the afternoon prior to publication, and they must be typed, double-spaced, or they will not be accepted. Blurbs, unfor­tunately; are not guaranteed publication, and are run only on a space available, priority system as designated by the, news editors. We remind that The Observer alone should not be relied upon to publicize events-to ensure some mention of your event, submit a separate entry to the On Campus Today section of the paper. 
The Observer Wednesday, November 12, 1980 -page 3 



Jury debates Klan, Nazi trial 
GREENSBORO, N.C. (AP)­
The jury in the murder trial of six K u Klux Klansmen andNazis ended a third day ofdeliberations without a verdict yesterday, while police said they 'were prepared to head offany trouble that might accompany the panel's ultimate decision. 
The jurors went home after re­examining in minute detail a videotape of events leading to the shooting deaths of five left­ists. The jury was to resume work at 9:30 a.m. this morning. 
Six Klansmen and Nazis are charged with first-degree murder and felonious rioting in the killings of five Communist Workers Party members at a "Death to the Klan" rally on Nov. 3, 1979.' 
Jurors got the case Friday and deliberated a full day Monday. The trial, in its 22nd week, is the longest in state history. 
City officials, who have mounted tight security for the entire trial, said they would take increased precautions to head off any civil unrest after the trial ends. 
"No verdict will be universally accepted," said Hewitt E. Lovelace, Greensboro's director ofPublic Safety, expressing con­cern that "outsiders" will cause problems. 
"Greensboro has become an example," he said. "There are people not directly connected by hometown or state who are in­volved and appear to be the main agitators." 
Police officers have been stationed on the roof above the third-floor courtroom and a­round other government buil­dings. Lovelace said the state Highway Patrol and the National Guard would be called if neces­sary, but he said such steps would be ordered only if the city were threatened by massive civil dis­order. 

Yesterday morning, jurors re­examined a television news videotape of the moments lead­ing up to the shootings, stopping the tape several times to freeze the action. 
Once gunfire sounded on the tape, the video image shifted wildly as a WXII-TV cameraman caught in the cross-fire dived under a car. During that period on the replay, jurors several times asked that action be stopped. 
It showed a racially mixed crowd singing along with a man playing a guitar. 
Prosecutors, in final argu­ments, told jurors that the Klansmen-Nazis came "spoiling for a fight." Defense lawyers said the communists started the dis­turbance. 
CILA begins Christmas fundraising 
By Michael Mader 
Featuring four new designs along with the popular Grotto scene this year, CILA will begin their annual sale of Christmas cards on Monday, November 17, according to CILA Fundraiser Mark Sullivan. The group plans to sell 25,000 of the student­designed cards which typically portray scenes of Christmas at Notre Dame, Sullivan said. 
CILA will sell the Christmas cards in the Library concourse from 6 to 9 p.m., Monday' through Friday, until December 
5. Cila also plans to sell cards at the St. Mary's Christmas bazaar, later this month, in each dorm, and in the Dining Halls from 5-6:15 
p.m. Additionally, Christmas cards will be sold in LaFortune at noontime, to accomodate off­campus students, Sullivan said. 
CILA, the Community of International Lay Apostolate, is a Christian service organization under the leadership of Chair­man Sue Gross and advisor Fr. Don MeN eill. The money CILA 

Sen. Baker predicts· ~eturn to normalcy' 
WASHINGTON (AP)--Sen. 
Howard Baker says he expects 
Ronald Reagan's ''conservative 
mandate" to lead to Senate 
approval of sharply increased 
defense SJ?endinf, lower taxes 
and consmuiona amendments 
to permit prayer in schools and 
to ban most abortions. 
Baker, the Tennessee Repub­lican slated to be the Senate's majority leader in the 97th Congress, said he'll suppon legislation to permit the fede!al government to pay nonumon wa~es on government housing proJects and to lower the minimum wage for teenagers. He predicted the Senate will adopt them. 
Despite ·this, Baker, in an interview with The Associated Press, predicted that the "biggest surprise" offered by Reagan's White House and by the Senate's new Republican majority will be the degree to which they work to protect ''the legttimate rights of labor." 
Once elected majority leader, Baker said, he hopes to "change the nature of the Senate," concentratinR: its at­tention on policy-making and overs1ght ot ~overnment functions and leavmg the day­to-day administration of the government to the executive branch. 
Here are Baker's comment's on specific legislative propos­als: 
An anti-abortion amendment: "I assume there will be a proposal for such an amend­ment and that President Rea­gan will support it. I would expect that Senator (Strom) Hurmond as chairman of the ] udiciary Committee would support it and I would say that its chances of passage m the Senate would be good." 
School prayer amendment: 
The Davis-Bacon Act: Sen. Jake Garn, R-Utah, incoming chairman of the Senate Bank­ing Committee, has called for repeal ot those pans ot the act which require that union wages and work rules be observed in all federally funded housing projects. Baker said Garn's proposal is a good one and predicted it would pass with a few modifications. 
The death penalty: ''If the chairman (Thurmond, R-S. C.) of the Judiciary Committee wants that, the chances are he can report that to the Senate floor and I will certainly move it for Senate consideration. 
Tax reduction legislation: "The Senate should go ahead and pass tax relief during the lameduck session ... even though President Caner is likely to veto it." 
Reduction of the minimum wage for youthful workers: "I think a youth differential is an idea that will have strong support in the Senate." 
Increased defense spending: ''I expect to support that.'' 
Proposals to abolish the new Department of Education: If President Reagan decides he wants to abolish it, I will hear his arguments and we'll con­sider it at the time. 


raises from the sale ofChristmas cards and other fund-raising ac­tivities is used to support stu­dents participating in summer service projects, according to Sullivan. 
"Students in the past have worked in Tucson, Oakland, New Orleans-most areas of the continental United States­
on service projects lasting from four to nine weeks," Sullivan said. Last ~ummer, CILA spon­sored 17 students and this year hopes to send 20, Sullivan said, adding that the organization pays for all of the students' expenses. 
T~tudents participate in community organizing activities during the summer, according to Sullivan. "This includes visiting shut-ins, working in recreation programs, working with parish youth groups. Last year we also sponsored some students as Glenmary miSSionaries in Appalachia," Sullivan said. 
• 

Workers have almost gutted the remains of St. Ed's as reconstruction continues. (Photo by Beth Prezio) 

,-Help others while you help YOURSELF... ~ to a wide selection of hand crafted articles from the THIRD WORLD 
ST. FRANCIS SHOPPE 
Non Profit Organization Behind Fatima-Opposite St. Mary's 10-6 Mon. thru Sat. Phone 233-7467 
~ A 

••n-s A PlAY vouu WAalr "TO 5fE. 
sur H5 Dtlt'IUN#L.~, rr-s APIA'I \'00 ·5110UID SfE, II 
MW... 14, 15, 10, U, 2,1, Wl\5111,6fOtl HAlL 
.6~00 PM.. 
• 



The Observer Wednesday, November 12, 1980 -page4 

Edwttrd "Moose,; Krause, athleticdirector, willspeak tonight on his career rtf 8 j1.m. i11 th~, Cavanaugh Hall study lounge 1 
l_ 




~trl'S~A~ALABAMASLAMMERS 
2/Sl.OO 

ALL WEEK LONG!! 





--N 
I•
nDo·if·yourself" 
COpya one·hour cassette Inlessthan2minutes. 
Make a Copy ofyour Favorite 

~~!!~cas~~~~?" 1Y ¢ 
Copying Service! Guaranteed perfect monaural 
copies, every time. 
What can you copy? 



The potential uses for cassette copies are endless. Here are just a few of the most common, applications: lectures, seminars, language labs, meetings, college classes, sermons, sales messages, weddings, interviews, talking letters, family events, relaxatiQns, exercises, word-processing ,data, and computer programs. · 
This coupon is redeemable for one (1) cassette copy of your original cassette for only 99C. 1
1-----------------~-----------------·
I Any additional copies of your original cassette are at the prices below. Simply bring your I1 original cassette and this coupon with you. The copy cassette and the copying service are
I included in one price. 
1 Your Original Cassette Length
I 
30 minuteI 60 minute
1 
90minute
I 
120 minute 
I 

Regular Price High-Speed I Per Copy Copying Time I $2.19 1 minute 
1 

$2.89 2 minutes $3.79 3minutes 
I 

$4.79 4 minutes 
1 

SMC Gov't discusses social justice 
by Kathryn Dale J 
The first edition of The Liberator, a social justice news­letter sponsored by the Saint Mary's Student Government, was discussed at a luncheon held a_t the Rotary Room at Saint 

Saint Mary's announces registration 
All Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students wishing to take courses at Saint Mary's for the spring semester should register at Angela Athletic Facility on the following days at the times scheduled: 
All seniors will register on Friday November 14. Students with last names beginning H-K will register at 4:00 pm; 0-R at 4: 15; S-Z at 4:30; A-Cat 4:45; D-G at 5:00; L-N at 5:15. Also on Friday, November 14 Juniors with names beginning H-K will register at 5:30; 0-R at 5:45; S-Z at 6:oo; A-C at 6:15; D-G at 6:30; L-N at 6:45. Sophomores and Freshmen will register on Wednesday, November 19. So_(Jhomores with nameJ beginmng with H-K will register at 4:00; 0-R at 4:15; S-Z at 4:30; A-C at 4:45; D-G at 5:00; L-N at 5:15. Freshmen wtth names begm­ning H-K will register at 5:30; 0-R at 5:45; S-Z at 6:00; A-Cat 6:15; D-G at 6:30; L-N at 6:45. 

Mary's. 
The topic of discussion was 

penal reform. The chiefspeakers were Sister Susan Kintzele, and James Gorman. Kintzele is active in both the South Bend Justice and Peace Center and programs of the United Religious Com­munity (URC). Gorman received his B.A. and J.D. from the University of Notre Dame and ,has spent time in area penal institutions. He is currently on a work/release program from the 
Indiana State Penitentiary. 
Kintzele, who opened the' luncheon with various illustra­tions of our local penal system, has been involved with penal re­form for nearly seven years. She cited the Bail bond project run by the Justice and Peace Center which is intent on loaning funds equaling to up to one half the bond or five hundred dollars. The program is based upon need, personal interviews and the accused's ties to the South Bend community. 
Kintzele also discussed the 

URC's Inmate-Outmate Pro­
gram. This program consists of 
fifteen South Bend men who 
work with fifteen inmates inthe 
Michigan City State Prison which 
services the state oflndiana. This 
group is currently in the process 
of collecting 3,000-dozen cook­
ies to be used at Christmas par­
ties next month. She was quick 
to point out-. that job develop­
ment programs are also being 
enacted for ex-offenders, but 
efforts are being slowed by the 
lack of jobs in general. . 
Gorman spoke briefly and often times emotionally on his personal experiences in prison. His education in law and the obvious empathy he felt for prison inmates was apparent throughout. He emphasized so­ciety's obligation to "Hate ~he sin but love the sinner," and urged all to lead better lives ,to make a better world. He insisted that individuals love those that commit crimes not by feeling sorry for inmates, but by loving them in the "true Christian " sense of the word. 

He cited the major problem in the penal system today as the~ assumption that rehabilittation and incarceration can be ac­complished together. Gorman said the solution to these prob­lems will depen~ upon an atti­tude of the heart in conjunction 1 with logic, not logic and burel!-u­~racy alone. 
Chorale 

The University of Notre Dame Chorale, under the direction of Douglas K. Belland, will pre­sent their Fall Concert on Thursday, Nov. 13, at 8:15 
p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
The program will include motets by Viadana, Gesualdo and Berchem; two verse anthems by Gibbons; and Samuel Barber's "The Coolin". Featured will be Haydn's "Little Organ Mass" for organ, chorus, soprano soloist and strings. 
The concert is free and open to the public. 
WSNDholds 'Barna contest 
WSND A M. Radio is spon­soring a "Blue Nun" 1980 comest. Any epople or groups who want to enter should submit a tape of a song about the upcoming Alabama game. The winner will receive $25 and the sinning song will be played on a Birmingham Radio Station. All entries must be handed in to WSND studies (4th floor O'Shaughnessy Hall) by noon on Thursday. 

APFplans discussion 
The American Political Forum '\lvill be having a discussion this Wed., Nov. 12 at 7:00p.m. in room 108 O'Shag. The title of the discussion will be ''What Price the Hostages?''. All interested people are invited to come and participate in the discussion. The American Political Forum is a non­partisan political discussion group which meets weekly to discuss the issues of the day. The Forum provides an opportunity for ND-SMC student to express himself on political issues. Our purpose is to convenepeople with a variety of ideas m order to better understand an issue by hearing out arguments from many 
sides. In so doing, we would hope to provide people with the opp<!rtunity to formulate their
I ~~."'::'=,:':,... Available Exclusively at: I 
optnions with a stronger basis 
please circle the copy cassette size and initial it at the time of 
I in fact. For more information
purchase. Then anytime after the date of this promotion, send Notre Dame Bookstore
I us your coupons for redemption. We will replace each coupon Th H I about the American Political with a fresh cassette and invoice you at seventy cents ($.70) e ammes 
Forum contact either Rob 
each regardless of cassette size. Send to: 1401-B West River 283-6316 
Gould or Dan Gonzales at
Road North. Mpls., MN 55<1 11 
277-06~1. 





I ______________...,... ----t! I 
-----~~·~1ij.8~­
~·-·---------~-----------------------------------------------------­
. l 

.. ·-~­
The Observer Wednesday, November 12, 1980 -page 5 
GO BIG FOR GREAT SERVICE FROM SOUTH • NEW YORK4nMES OMAHA DENVER •Now you can go B1g Red And wherever you go along our Bigfour times every day from Red routes you'll enjoy that famous South Bend-two aepartures east Trailways torsion-smooth ride and I LOSANGELEs to New York, with intermediate stops, comfortable red carpet service every mile and two departures west to Los Angeles of the trip. . or San Francisco, with intermediate stops. You''ll find Trailways in South Bend at Plus you can also make convenient the Michiana Regional Airport on U.S. 20, / connections to over 15,000 cities and or for information on routes and rates, just towns nationwide. ca.ll232-2577. ,·4· EE~ :__::_==--e.~· .. -1 r , ., ··r·I1 ~.-.·ee-. ;._ ··­e.ct-~  



P. 0. BoxQ 
•S life, overcome social injustices. While I and committees on which Prof. ·same constancy, commitment, and do not agree with Professor Rice Rice serves, he is in a position clarity when he addresses the central (Observer, Nov. 5) on some par-currently unmatched by any of life issues of the Reagan adminis­
Dear Editor, ticulars, I respect his efforts to Notre Dame's faculty to have an tration: 
One obligation of any Christian .'speak with clarity on central issues impact on public policy related to (1) reversal of current abor­is to usc the full range of his or her of human life. life issues. tion policy to one which intellectual talents and understand-By virtue of the election of Gov. As a fellow Christian my prayers sanctifies and preserves ing of the faith to witness and I Reagan and the various task forces are with him. I will welcome the human life; 
(2) control over the develop­ment, proliferation, and use of nuclear arms; 

New leadership bound to 
(3) opposition to those dic­tatorial regimes in Latin America and the Pacific, as well as behind the Iron 


big bucks, industry? 
Curtain, who kill, maim, or incarcerate those who oppose their policies; 

Colman McCarthy 
(4) opposition to minority regimes which subjugateWASHINGTON--In· their savor of victory, Big Politics differs from the "higher prices" racial majorities (or min­

right-wing groups should be allowed their Mark Twain spoke of. He referred to the indulgences In interpreting the election results. outright greasing of political palms common to orities) and kill, maim or 
Conservative populism has asserted itself, 19th century American politics, whereas today's. incarcerate those who they are claiming. With the defeats of George generosity ts sanctioned by a 19_75 FEC ruling. oppose their policies; McGovern, John Culver, Birch Bayh and Frank The current arrangement has a philosophical (5) distribution from the Church in the Senate, and John Brademas, connection that goes further back m history, to plentitude of the American Andrew Maguire and Bob Eckhardt in the the honored motto of the Medici family: granary the food needed House, liberalism has been put to rout. "The "Money to get power, power to protect for the world's starving peol?le" have spoken. In Ronald Reagan and money.'' people to survive; the msweep of Republicans in the Senate, the McGovern and the other liberals were not ( 6) conservation of energy to dream that Richard Nixon says he worked for is driven from office solely because of the render unnecessary a war-coming true: The creation of a ''new leadership· corporate cash heaped on their challengers. over the Mideast's oil and class whose values and aspirations (are) truly They took money also, though it tended to come 
to free petroleum for its more reflective of the rest of the country." from unions. But even then, as a Common productive uses in the food This high-sounding talk is common to victory Cause study showed, someone like Symms had chain. 

celebrations. All that's absent is some locker­26 percent of his total contributions from PACS, The Jist could be lengthened.
room roistering, with champagne pouring over against only 9 percent of Church's. Grassley None of these are policy areas
the heads of the winners. had 21 percent, McGovern 11 percent. 
admitting to easy answers. TheBut is it that simple? In the last weeks of the In Ocotober 1979, about a year before the struggle between national security campaign, the telling hints about the outcome largest outpouring passed a bill that would have and justice always pushes Christians did not come from the polls or the guesses of set modest limits: No more than $70,000 could to the limit of intellect and principle. 
the experts. They were revealed in the dry be accepted by a candidate from PACS, with statistics of Federal Election Commission data $6,000 the maximum from one group. But the Regrettably only one of these policy 
areas appeared in the literature
on some 1,200 corporate and 300 union political bill--which would constrain only House mem­action committees. The money from corpora­bers--has been sitting in the Senate, stalled distributed around our churches tions and right-wing groups flowed with such there by conservatives perched comfortably in before the election, implying for intensity that the results confirmed Mark the limbs of the ever-growing money tree. whom we should vote. But they are Twain's comment: "I think I can say, and say In the elections of the Abdnors and Grass­centra/life issues for Prof. Rice, for with pride, that we have legislatures that bring leys, did "the people" speak or did money Reagan supporters and for all higher prices than any in the world." talk? If it was a populist uprising, what about Notre Dame faculty' and students. 
In South Dakota, McGovern was beaten hr. the uprise among corporations? They have Life is life _ whether wrenched Rep. James Abdnor, the beneficiary (up untd found it so enjoyable to part with so much from an American woman • s womb 
31) of $187,000 from corporate PACS. money that in 1975 less than 140 corporate whether blown to smithereens by Rep. Dan Quayle of Indiana received $162,000 PACS existed, as against more than 1,100 now. an American nuclear warhead that 
corporations in defeating Bayh. Rep. Rather than the defeats of the liberals being scores a direct hit on a Russian Charles Grassley took $159,000 in beating seen as a blowing off of steam by the frustrated 
factory or base, whether suddenly Culver. In Idaho, Rep. Steven Symms received little people, a more dismal explanation needs ended by an assassin's bullet aimed 
$145,000 to turn back Church. to be considered. A well-planned and well­
at an archbishop who offers the Except for Sen. Russell Long of Louisiana-­financed power play has put mto the Senate and Body of Christ to the poor, whether who had no opposition but for old time's sake House a large number of servants of the big slowly drained from a politicaldoled out $258,000 from su~ar-daddy business-special interest complex who were opponent through life-long intern­corporations--Abdnor, Quayle, Grassley and showered with money not only to create future ment. whether the final end to aSymms were at the top ot the money list. As a access but to reward past favors. 
malnourished child callouslygang of four, they were· the favonte sons of It isn't a mystery what this coziness leads to: ignored by the wealthy North,
companies that often prosper or fail by the higher prices for consumers, more breaks for access they have to a few well-stroked senators. the wealthy, bigger cuts in social services and whether thoughtlessly overlooked more despair that the system can be made to to maintain a high standard of 

Editor-in-Chief .......... Paul Mullaney Afa1111ging Editor . ............ Mark Rust Editorials Editor ......... Mike Onufrak Senior Copy Editor .. ....... Lynne Daley ExecNiive News Editor .... Tom Jackman News Editor ......•....... Pam Degnan SMC Executive Editor ..•. Margie Brassil S¥C News Editor ... _... , . Mary Leavitt 
streets and highways. The Christian is always uneasy with arguments that trade the life of the helpless in one place for the "greater good" in another. That seems to me to be the essential principle of Prof. Rice's argument about abortion -even to the point that we should not traffic with those who make such decisions. Will the same principle apply to the life agenda facing President-elect Reagan? 
We are thankful some like Prof. Rice are in a position to influence policy. 
"From those to whom much has been given, much shall be expec­ted." 
Dal'id C. Leege Director, Center for the Study ofMan in Contemporary Society 
Self-contradiction ? 
Dear Editor, 
In response to Anthony Walton's column, "Where have all the liberals gone," let me begin by resp.onding to a comment made near the end of the column. I would disagree with his claim that the Socialists are ''the only party that is actively acknowledging and pursuing an­
swers to social problems." I would say that t?e Libe~arian Party. is also seekmg ~olut10ns to soc1al 
. problems, and m ways th~t do not seem to be self-contradictory or that couJd wo~se~ problems, as some of the Soc1alist ways seem to be. . . 
.I would agree, ~s a L1bert~nan, w1th many of the ttems mentiOned by M~. Walton as b~ing in ~he Socialist platform. The tssue whtch presents a large problem to me, . though, is one of the central tenets of the _SoCialists-:·the social ownershtp of the baste means of production." I don't see how this can be reconciled with _the other stated goal of decentralized, per­sonal control. In fact, state enter­~rises are the epito~e ofcen~ralized. tmpersonal ~perat10ns, wh1ch have caused soc1al problems, rather than solved them. . .. I wou_l~ a~;ee wtt_h the goal ~f 
humanlZlng Amenca, but I don t see how t~e Socialists would be able to do tt. 
Jim M. Kresse 

limited reviews 
Dear Editor, 
Today's Obserl'er(Nov. 5) con­tained two reviews of Bruce Springsteen's new album. Granted Springsteen is popular on both campuses, but how about some variety? Curiously lacking from your features page was a review of the Michael Stanley Band perfor­mance at SMC. Why? 
For those unfortunates who missed it, the show by Stanley and Co. was beyond compare for a small concert setting. This band deserves recognition -why not drop one Springsteen review in favor of MSB? 
Sue Sofranko 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Sports Editor ...... ...... Beth Huffman Features Editor . .......... Molly Woulfe Photo Editor ..... _........ .John Macor 
Business Manager ....•.... Greg Hedges CoRtroller . ...... -•.• ~ .. :, ..•.Jim Rudd AdvertisiRg Manager . ......... Mark Ellis Circulatiofl Manager•. ..... Beth Hackett Protluctioflltf,aflager •.....John McGrath· 
/ 
~-----~------------~----, 
I 
I I 
• 
The Observer ~ ______ _ 





~~c:)l(3L~======================~==ed=n=e=s=da=y=,=N=o=v=e=m=b=e=r=1=2=,=1=9=80==~=p=ag=e=7= 
Campus 
• 
9 a.m. -seminar on multiple sclerosis, cce. con­tact peter Iombardo, 283­7005 for more information. 

• 
3:30 p.m. -lecture, "blood flow in collapsible vessels," y.c. fung, univ. of cal-san diego, 303 cushing, spans: aero & mechanical engr. 


• 4:15p.m.-economics dept. lecture, "will the results pf the presidential election make the u.s. energy secure?" prof. paul davidson, mem. library aud. 
•4:20 
p.m. -physics colloquium, "josephson jun­ctions & ultra-fast com­puters," w.j. gallagher, ibm corp (watson lab), 118 nieuwland science bldg. 

• 
7 p.m. -discussion on "what price the hostages?" 108 O'Shag, sponsored by the american political forum. 

• 
7 p.m. -organizational meeting, nd-smc irish club, Iafortune ballroom. 

• 
7 p.m. -earth sciences, "groundwater contamination in michiana," robert j. shedlock, u.s. geological survey, 101 earth sciences building. 

• 
7,9,11 p.m. -film, "high anxiety," engr. aud. 

• 
7:30 p.m. -concert, "atlanta rhythm section" ace. $8.50 & $7.50. 


• 7:30p.m. -humanistic studies lecture, "thomas more & the art ofdying well: a dialogue of comfort against tribulation," thomas lawler, college of the holy cross, stapleton lounge. 
• 8 p.m. -talk given by "moose" krause on his many years as athletic director, cavanaugh hall study lounge. 
Moose speaks 
On Wednesday, November 12, the Cavanaugh Hall Academic Commission will sponsor "MOOSE" Krause as a part of its continuing speaker series. In Light of his forthcoming retirement, Mr. Krause will S{>eak informally concerning h1s many years as Athletic Director at Notre Dame. Mr. Krause will begin promptly at 8 p.m. in the Cavanaugh study lounge. 


Molarity 


Peanuts 
50 ~OU GU~S ALL WENT 
INTO TOWN, AND GOT IN 
A6RAWL...WHAT ABOUT 
I llARRIET?WIIERE'5 HARRIET? 
I 
"'-~:"""~' 


Michael Molinelli 

L15TEN, WU£'1\J You'Ve CH£"C.K£D Fo~ l.D,3 A5 LONGt AS I HAV£, 
YOU'VE SEEN 
WOW! I GUESS 1HEARD L{OU WRONG•. I THOUGHT L{OU 5AI0. 1'1N JAIL"((.::::=:=B~==-
i AND SO M~ EARS WENT UP c, AND M'i HAT FLEW OFF... 
~ 

9 Court 33 Army rank: 


The Daily Crossword 
procedure abbr. 13 City In 34 Record 
Hawaii 35 "-the 14 Spacecraft windy 15 Unpleasant plains..." 16 Humorist's 36 Alone 
family 37 Wlnddir. 11 Site of 38 "If I make Mt. Whitney my-hell" 19 Sports 39 Actor arena Fernando 21 Defensive 40 Siteof 
coverings Balboa Park 22 Blackbird 42 Napkins, 23 "look-" for example 24 Certain 43 laneof 
Catholic song 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

ACROSS 27 Island near 1 All, once California 5 Town near 31 Redacts 
Padua 32 Remedies 
44 Speech lm· 12 Nestling perfection hawk 
45 "After the 15 Shearer and fire,­Talmadge small ..." 18 Make heavy 
48 Cal. city 20 A Truman 52 Anaheim 23 Moses' 
attraction brother 54 Performs 24 Allots 55 Mild oaths 25 City on 56 Notion theSeyhan 
in Nice 26 Age 57 Like a day 27 Rare thing 
in June 28 "Call· 58 High nest fornla, 59 Gull here-" 60 Aroma 29 Pitcher 
Ryan 

DOWN 30 Thrown 1 Scorch for­2 Where Vane· 32 Sponge 
tlans bask 35 Weakly 3 Brews 36 Channel 4 lots of beside27A 
sequoia 38 Good Books here 39 Tilt 
5 Protective 41 Delicate screen of 42 Basswood fighter 44 Hermit planes 45 Egyptian 
6 Serape lizard 7 Money 46 Father 
drawer 47 Autocrat 8 Upon: pref. 48 Constructed 9 Israeli 49 Tobacco 
mount follower 
10 "He loved 50 Saarinen his country 51 River to -other ..." North Sea 
11 Ado 53 Tipsy 


TC!TlC.lS 

Gentlemen: 
The Franciscan Friars in Mishawaka invite you to spend a weekend (Nov. 21-23) with them to learn more about their way of living the tradition of St. Francis. 
For you reservation, contact Friar Richard or Friar William. 
St. Anthony Novitiate 1316 W. Dragon Trail Mishawaka, IN 46544 (219) 255-2442 
HERTZ _ 
ECONOMY ~ARES,
WEEKENDS . FROM $17.99 A DAY. 
The~ Economy Fares arl' 
Touring Rates, subject I<> change without notice and non discountable. 
There are minimum day and advance 
re~rvation 

requirements, and ( ~ restrictions on when 
,,..:f

where ~~ must be returned. Gas is not included. Call  .-.a  
Hertz for details.  •  

 IDIT~  

tnJn7. HI :N1"> H IHI,., ANI H m n .H 11NI: ( :1\H'oo 

• :---~L--"~7'·-­

-

r 
The Observer Wednesday, November 12, 1980-page 8 
I ­

Two outfielders 
Rookies grab titles 
A pair of outfielders, Joe 
Charboneau of the Cleveland 
Indians and Lonnie Smith of the 
Philadelphia Phillies, have been 
named the American and 
National League Rookies of the 
Year in their respective leagues 
by The Sporting News. 
Charboneau batted .289 in 131 games for the Indians, serving as , both a leftfielder and designated 
River City Records Welcomes an evening with 


HARRY CHAPIN 
Tuesday, December 9 • 8:00p.m. Morris Civic Auditroium • South Bend 
Tickets: $9.50/$8.50 Reserved Tic~ets on sale Wednesday, Nov. 12, at 
10:00 a.m. at River City Records, 50970 
U.S. 31 North, ONLY! 
Limit 10 tickets per person! Call 277-4242 for further information! 
River City Records & Jam Productions Present AN EVENING WITH 

Friday, November 14 • 8:00 p.m. Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $9.00/$8.00 all seats reserved. Good seats still available at the ACC Box Office and River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31' North -3 miles north of campus 

hitter. He clubbed 23 home runs and had 87 RBis, including 8 game-winners,. while walking 49 times. 
Smith hit for a lofty .339 average in 100 games, legging out 14 doubles and three triples to go with three home runs and 20 RBis. Smith also pilfered 23 bases for the World Champion Phils. 
Joe Charboneau of the Cleveland Indians was awarded the American League Rookie of the Year prize by The Sporting News yesterday. 
AFC Central showdown on Sunday 
CLEVELAND (APj -in re­cent years, the Cleveland Browns have traveled to Pitts­burgh hoping for a break, wishing something would go wrong for the Steelers to give the Browns a chance, however slim, to win. 
This year, with one victory over the Steelers already tucked away, the Browns are heading for Three Rivers Stadium with newfound con­fidence, says Coach Sam Rutigliano. 
"We're going in there not with hopes that we'll play well or with hopes that we'II make a good showing,'' Rutigliano said. "We beat the Pitts­burgh Steelers the last time we played them.'' 
Sure, coach, but those weren't really the Steelers you played. Mter all, Cliff Stoudt was quarterbacking for the injured Terry Bradshaw, Franco Harris watched· from the sidelines along with re­ceivers Lynn Swann and John Stallwo~th, and ] ack Lamben wasn't linebacking. 
"I don't know how much more Stallworth and Swann can do than Jim Smith is doing," Rutisliano said. "He's a very dommating receiver. Theo Bell is a very talented receiver. 
..And I just hope Terry Bradshaw doesn't do as well as Cliff Stoudt did against us in the first game." 
Stoudt, filling in while Bradshaw nursed a jammed thumb, threw for more than 300 yards in the game at Cleveland's Municipal Stadium, . which the Browns won 27-26, 
Pittsburgh, however, particu­

larly missed Harris, as Steeler 
runners managed only 87 yards 
rushing in the contest.• 
Rutigliano admits he expects 

to see a different Pittsburgh 
team this Sunday. 
It's not the·veteran personnel, ~owever, that he fears. Rather, 
it's the attitude he expect~ the 
Steelers to display. 
''The challenge of Cleveland, and us bein~ in first place and playing in Pittsburgh -you will see them playing the best game they've played all year," Rutigliano said. "And that's good, because that's the kind ofgame we want to be involved in." 
Stallworth is to miss the contest again, this time be-Harris, who sat out the Tampa cause of a broken foot suffered game, is also expected back. in Pittsburgh's victory at The Browns should be at full Tampa Bay on Sunday. But strength, with the exception of Swann and Bradshaw are kickoff and punt returner Keith expected to be ready, and Wright. 

========================= 
Notre Datne ... ...t'Wo dirty 'Words 
Editor's Note: The following Associated Press article by Herschel Nissenson was published in many papers across the south prior to the onset of the 1980 collegiate football season. 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. -Alabama begins defense of its national college football championshlp Saturday against Georgia Tech and any coach, Paul (Bear) Bryant included, will tell you that your most important game is your next game. 
The Alabama campus is looking past Georgia Tech. Also past Mississippi, Vanderbilt, Kentucky, Rutgers, Tennessee, Southern Mississippi, Mississippi State and Louisiana State. 
"The only game they're talking about is Notre Dame," says Charley Thornton, assistant athletic director for public relations. "It's like they don't realize we have nine previous games." 
Notre Dame doesn't visit Alabama until Nov. 15. In this part ofthe country, Notre Dame is a dirty word ... two dirty words, in fact. 
Notre Dame cost previously undefeated Alabama the 1973 national championship with a 24-23 victory in the Sugar Bowl at New Orleans. The Fighting Irish cost previously undefeated Alabama the 1974 national championship with a 13-11 triumph in the Orange Bowl at Miami. The only other meeting was Notre Dame's 21-18 regular season triuD;lph in 1976-three Alabama setbacks by a total of six points. 
Alabama also feels its 1966 (11-0) and 1977 (11-1) teams deserved the national championships those years which went, of course, to Notre Dame. Winning national titles in 1978 and 1979 hasn't made anyone forget 1966 or 1977. 
Theanti-Notre Dame feeling runs so high among the populace that one Alabaman was heard to say, "I'd vote for Iran before I'd vote for Notre Dame." 
For the first time, the campus bookstore is selling items with the name of a visiting team. Uncomplimentary items, of course, like green derbies which read: "Dam Notre Dame" and green shirts bearing a shamrock plus the legend: "Hail Mary, full ofgrace, Notre Dame's in second place." 
"That's never been done before, not even for Auburn," says Bruce Graham, a senior from Albany, Ga. "To say there's a lot of hate for them would be an understatement." 
Alabama home games, both here and in Birmingham some 50 miles to the east, sometimes seem to be more of a social function than a sporting event. Signs begin to adorn the sorority houses late in the week and there is a pep rally on Thursday night. 
"When they come back to school in the fall, all the girls buy new dresses and try to line up dates," says Graham, "If they can't get a date, they usually don't go." 
Bryant is only the crown prince. Football is king. 
"Rightnow," says Graham, "all thetalkisaboutwhether'Bamacan win three national championships in a row. The bars in town are showing videotapes of the last couple ofSugar Bowls. And there's a lot more talk now because we're playing Notre Dame this year." 

The Observer Wednesday, November 12, .1980-page'9 
Purdue's Herrmann 
QB passes the records 

WEST LAFAYETIE IND. (AP)-It's no conincidence that Purdue University's sluggish football program b~an a dramatic turnaround with the arrival of Mark Herrmann, a strong-arm quarterback who made the forward pass the chief weapon in the Boilermak­ers' arsenal and is now on the ver~e of becoming the NCAA maJor college career leader in total offense. 
Herrmann, a lanky, 6'f' senior from Carmel, Ind., ar­rived at Purdue the same time as Coach Jim Young, who inherited a program that had recorded just one winning sea­son in the previous seven years. Young and Herrmann were suited for each other, and the entire offense was rebuilt around the young quarterback. "i think that it's pretty obvious that we have built our program around him," says Young. ''He is the leader, he makes thing hapJ?en. He has a great deal of potse and experience.'' 
Purdue is 7-2 this season and tied with Michigan and Ohio State for first place in the Big Ten. Herrmann has been mentioned as a prime candi­date for the Heisman Trophy, but he figures his chances are no better than 50-50. In any event, he appears remarkably unaffected by his notoriety. 
"Most people don't believe me when I say I'm not concern­
ed with the Heisman Trophy,'' Herrmann insists. "After you've been through four years with the same teammates and the same coaches, it really is difficult to have personal achievements ahead of team goals. But I'd be kidding if I said I dido' t check on the stats of the other so/called candi­dates ... '' 
l 'herrmann's stats show eight NCAA division I records al­
I 
~ \ ready under his belt, including most passing yards in a career with 9,205. He needs 44 yards at Michigan on Saturday to 
become the NCAA total offense leader. This season, he's
! passed for 2,471 yards and 18 
~ touchdowns. His best effort 
t, came last Saturday, a school record 439 yards and three touchdown passes in a 58 I13 rout of Iowa. 
"I can honestly say I haven't kept uP. with the records,'' he says. 'It seems like they have a record for almost anything. Most of the time, I'm not aware of them until the day after the game.'' 
For four seasons, Herrmann has been the focus of Purdue's offensive attack, but it wasn't until five weeks ago that he was given full responsibility for calling all his own plays. The results have been phenomenal. Over that span, Herrmann has completed 123 of 182 
passes-a nifty .676 percentage -for 1,764 yards and 16 touchdowns. And as a team, the Boilermakers are averaging more than 500 yards total offense and 40 pomt a game since Herrmann was given a free hand. 
For his career, one out of every 8.5 pass completions has gone for a touchdown. 
"Coach Young's bottom-line philosophy has always been to tmprove,' the senior quarter­back says. "He constantly stresses improvement. As I look back on my career, I guess that's what I've mainly been concerned with ... trying to im­prove with every game." 
The one area Herrmann has tried hardest to show improve­!Dent in .cutting down on his 
--------.:.:·--=-::::-;:.;·..::-c..:-::..;·:.::·------~-------­
mterceptions. He has an NCAA career record 69 inter­ceptions, but 27 of those were as a freshman. He's steadily improved, and he's been pick­ed off just 13 times so far this year. 
"I did at one time becon.e paranoid about interceptions, but lately I've realized when your offense is designed around the pass, you're going to have thoses interceptions,'' Herrmann says. 'I really try not to let them get me down as much as they used to. 
"I don't Jllind all the attention any more. That goes with bemg a quarterback, I guess. It has bothered me, because I was afraid of what my team­mates might think. But I've been on the other side of the coin. I was booed last year when we played Northwestern, so I guess the badd comes with 
-

the good.:..·-·---------------::::::;; 
FREE DELIVERY 
AVAILABLE 
~:!!!.~,no §99
Rt>W Z1nl•n.J.:ol )ltr 
Carlo Rossi 
Recular 
$4.49 You Save $2.50 

ANDRE' 
Champagne 
750 mi. 
Meloso Cream Sherry
99 
750 mi. 
29 

~~--·•~~:~ueur Of The WeeJd ... Ill~~~~.~~~~~~~ .23 ••. I I 99 
Achaia Claus Ouzo 
........ 750 mi. 

'~:.?.~~ King'• Commitm~~~~ . 
* 1621 South Bend Ave. 
SOLmi BEND. 23:J.410J

To You! 
* 6502 Grape Rd.

• AJ....WA"Sl.OW, LOW PRK:INGON 
QUAUTY PRODUCTS. 
MISHAWAKA, 217.7171 

• THE MOST COURTEOUS SERVICE 
* 200 N. Main St. 
POSSIBLE. 
f1 KHART, 21~·1310 

* SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
* 254 Dixie Hwy, North

• ·;;~ '<;Y'EY'<lil'";;;JI) <o/ .. . . 
ROS[l.ANO. 272.2522 
Hiram W alker'a 
:::::~::nt. 
:!:'!.dy . 

* 1426 Miohawak• Ave. 
217·1744 

* 4401 S. Mi<hican 
~ Zll ZIOO 

* 2934 E. McKinley Ave. 
2Jl.I4H 

* 1725 N. Ironwood 
272-7144 
99

....1som1.3 
,~ .. 499 
:~:don's ................750ml. 499 ~~~~dian ..... 1.7sto•. I 0 99 ~:;;:~ ~~~~~SOml. I I 99 
Kahlua Liqueur 9 9
............. 750ml.8 
Seagram's 999 
Crown Royal .. 750 mi. 
99
~==~:~~­

.750ml.2 
• 
\.; 

The Observer 

Fully healed 
Wednesday, Novemb-er 12, 1980-page 10 
11The Little Blue Nun" 
Editor'J note: Thefollowing ira rong comporedby 'BamafanJ after Notre Dame'J 1978 national champioluhip victiory over TexaJ. 
. 

TilE LITTLE BLUE NUN 
Well, the AP and UP have announced their final pick, Here in Alabama ...we're all just a little sick 'Cause we thought they would reward us for the kinda job we've 
done When we romped and stomped Ohio State, they'd make us No. 1 
~ (Then I seen the vote counters. It was two priests, a bishop, four cardinals and a little blue nun). 
CHORUS: 
We can beat'em on the gridiron, we can beat'em fair and square, We can lick 'em fit and proper but we haven't got a prayer. "Cause you gotta know for certain that there isn't any hope When you gotta lick Ohio State and then take on the Pope. Now before the ball game started, we were 3, Irish 5, No. 1 and 2 teams saw their chances take a dive. The Crimson Tide had rolled a first, even Woody Hayes agreed­That 35 to 6 had put us solid in the lead. 
(It wasn't to be though. They called it a miracle-we call it Grand Larceny!!) 
With a back whose name is Heavens and a coach whose named 
Devine, Does it strike you kinda funny that they've got us in a bind? Now just ponder this a minute and I'm sure you'll all suspect Those Irishmen from Notre Dame are just great at stacking decks. 
(I knowed we was in trouble when I saw 'em countin' the votes on the beads!) 
Well, to make this story simple, we just fell like we've been had, But you rugged Crimson Tigers really shouldn't feels so bad, What if they said Notre Dame was first, and we were No. 2, We just had football players-They called in You-Know-Who! 
Copier of"The Little Blue Nun" and "The Little Blue Nun Replier" may be obtainedfrom The Big Brothm/Big SrsterrofSt.joreph County, Inc., 1011 E. Madiron Street, South Benrj,_ Indiana 46617, (219) 232-9958. 

THE MUSIC BOX 120 W. Mishawaka Ave. Mish., IN (256-5440) 


lots to see at the best new club in town, with the best entertainment around: 

Nov. 12  Free Spirit  
Nov. 13  Jeff Lorberfusion  
with Free Spirit  
Nov. 14 ­ New GEass Revival  
with  
Pink& the Naturals  

~vine and the 'Bear' aim for No. 1 
By Joe Mooshil 
AP Spons Writer 
CHICAGO (ap) -coaches 
Bear Bryant of Alabama and 
Dan Devine of Notre Dame, 
both of whom have been there, 
would go anywhere at anytime 
if it meant a shot at being 
No. 1 again. 
"No. 1 is still possible, yes," 
Bryant told the Chicago Foot­
ball Writers in a telephone in­
terview Tuesday prior to Satur­
day's nationally televised 
battle against Notre Dame in 
Birmingham. 
"Our only chance would be 
for Georgia to go to the Sugar 
Bowl and for us to play them 
there," said Bryant whose 
team had been No. 1 before 

losing to Mississippi State two 
weeks ago. · 
Devine, whose Irish had taken 

over the No. 1 spot from 
Alabama only to lose it to 
Georgia this week following 
last Saturday's 3-3 tie with 
Georgia Tech, also envisioned 
a possible bowl game against 
Georgia. 
"Our destiny in the polls will be determined by what we do against Alabama and Southern Cal and whomever we play if we play in a bowl game," said Devine. 
"If Georgia were No.. 1 and we,had a chance to play them, we d put on the moleskins or the uniforms and jump at the chance to play them,'' added Devine. 
But first there is Saturday's game between No. 5 Alabama and No. 6 Notre Dame and Bryant's chance for his first victory over the Irish who defeated the Crimson Tide 24-23 in the Sug-ar Bowl in 1973, 13-11 in the Orange Bowl in 1974 and 21-18 in South Bend in 1976. 
''I've never beaten anyone,'' said Bryant, "my teams have. In the games we lost to Notre Dame, we might have won if I had stayed home. Notre Dame is a big name and it would be nice and I'd be happy if we could beat them." 
Bryant said "I would have liked to have them beat Georgia Tech because it would have been to our advantage. But that alened them.'' 
About this Saturday's game, 

Bryant said "you have to keep 
from losing before you can win. 
You need good defense and a 
good kicking game and keep 
the mistakes down. 
''My biggest worry Saturday 
is that one of their big line­
... America 
(continuedfrom page 1) 
An effort last week to draw Iran into indirect negotiations through the Algerian ambas­sador had made little headway. Christopher, Deputy Treasury Secretary Robert Carswell, and the others were sent to Algiers early Monday morning to try to speed up the process. 
ThediscussionsinAlgierswere described by the State Depart­ment as "intensive and useful." The announcement offered no details, and spokesman John H. Trattner turned aside all ques­tions after reading i c before television cameras. 
men might run out of bounds and run over me,'' said Bryant. 
''Heck, I want to be around for a while. They do have an awesome defense.'' 
Would Bryant like to meet Notre Dame in a postseason game? 
''If they beat us this Saturday I'd go anywhere to play them, even Elkhan, Indiana,"said the Bear, "but if we win, no, I wouldn't want to play them again." 
Asked what he thought of Devine's assessment which was that Alabama would stick to about three or four basic plays this week, Bryant chuckled and said "I'm not planning on telling all the writers in the Midwest what we're going to do. What we hope to do is to do what they are not expecting us to do." 
Abdelkrim Gheraib, Algeria's ambassador to Iran who took part in the talks with Deputy Secretary of State Warren Christopher, was to fly to Tehran today to submit the U.S. reply, according to informed sources here. 
Christopher and his delegation left for Washington at 2:59p.m. EST, without comment, on a special Air Force plane. 
The deputy secretary of state gave the Algerians a formal note containing the U.S. reply to Iran 
. oti his arrival from Washington on Monday. 
.....---------­
~j>()~tsc/:l=f4.==i=~~S==========================W=e=dn=e=sd=a=y=,N==ov=e=m~b=e=r=12=,=19=8=0=-==pa=g=e~ll 
-~-­
by The Ohsen•t•r and The Asrnciated Prerr 
The interhall six-mile run wm be held on Saturday, November 15 at 10 a.m. The course will be entirely on theNotre Dame campus utilizing the golfcourse, lake trails and campus roads. Notre Dame undergraduates, graduates, faculty and staff may enter. Separate divisions for men and women in each category (undergraduate, graduate, faculty, and staff) will be set up. If you wish to run, you must come to the interhall office (C-2) in the ACC to complete insurance and entry forms before Wednesday, November 12. 
Armv ticket refunds for Notre Dame or 
St. Mary's s'fudents who ordered an individual game ticket for the October 18 game and did not pick up that ticket are available in the form of cash refunds during the hours of 9-5 
p.m. Monday through Friday at the Gate 10 Box Office Window. Students may pick up their refund during the month of November. The last day refunds will be issued will be Wednesday, November 26 (the day before Thanksgiving break). Presentation of your student ID cards is required to obtain the cash refund. 
Keenan Hall wm sponsor a pep rally tonight at· 
6:45 ,p.m. on the steps of Haggar Hall. Coach Dan Devine and the entire Fighting Irish football team will be on hand for the rally. Keenan has selected the theme of"4" for the rally-four Alabama games, four Alabama victories, etc... 
Student basketballtickets may be picked 
up at the second floor ticket window ofthe ACC from 8:30a.m. until 4:30 p.m. according to the following schedule: Soph­omores, Wednesday, Nov. 12; and Freshmen, Thursday, Nov. 
13. From Friday, Nov. 14 until Wednesday, Nov. 19 students who are not able to pick up tickets on scheduled days may get their tickets. Any tickets unclaimed by Nov. 19 will be forfeited by the student and a refund rendered. There will be a limit of four ID's per pick up. Because ofa high demand for tickets this year some juniors have been lotteried to the bleacher section. A list of juniors with bleacher seats was published in the Friday, Nov. 7, Observer. Any student interested in purchasing tickets for the Nov. 20 game with the Polish National Team may do so at the Gate 10 box office from Nov. 10 to Nov. 14. On Nov. 17 unpurchased student tickets for that game will go on sale to the general public. 
Dr. Tom Kellv and the interhall office are looking for students to referee tt;_e upcoming interhall basketball season. This is a paid position and interested students are asked to call 6100 as soon as possible. Officiating clinics will begin shortly. 
A pep rally will be held tomorrow at 7:30 
p.m. in Stepan Center. Guest speakers will include Coach Dan Devine, Tom (!ibbons, John Sweeney and John Scully. Remember-you may be blowing offstudying for an hour, but this is THE ALABAMA PEP RALLY! 
J~B·soccER~~~
·~>.. ~. .... -~~~ 
FINAL 1980 SOCCER STATISTICS 
·GP SH GL ~\Tot 1WG Kevin Lovejoy 24 132 18 3 19 8 Saml Kahale 22 B3 11 8 19 2 Ed O'Malley 25 BB 13. 3 18 2 Rob Snyder 22 71 1C. 5 15 4 Mike Sullivan 21 27 2 7 9 0 Joe Ciuni 23 20 3 5 8 1 Dan McCurrie 19 16 1 4 5 0 Ken Harkenridar 22482352 Mario Manta 21 34 3 1 4 0 Jay Schwartz 16 30 3 1 4 1 Mike Mai 19 37 3 4 2 Steve Barry 24 32 2 3 0 Mark Luetkehano 24 29 0 3 3 0 Joe Holterman 22 7 0 2 2 0 Bruce Novotny 12 11 0 2 2 0 Steve Burgoon 2 6 1 0 0 Man Stolwyck 5 7 1 0 0 Bill Varanka 4 4 1 0 1 0 Jim Zaremba 5 3 1 0 1 0 Dave Bidinger 9 6 0 1 1 0 Kevin Coghlan 6 0 0 1 1 0 Bill Murphy 20 46 0 1 1 0 Ted Schwartz 9 11 0 1 1 0 Steve Miller 23 18 0 1 1 0 
TEAM STATS GP GL SH CRNR FOUL 
NOTRE DAME  27 73 776  152  483  
OPPONENTS  27 32 359  88  451  
GOALKEEPING  GIGS SVS SO GA AVG  

Gerard McCarthy 17/13 113 5 14 1.03 John Milligan 14/12 65 6 18 1.56 Bob Ritger 5/1 4 1 0 0.00 Bob VanHoomissen 2/0 1 1 1 0.00 
NOTRE DAME 27/27 183 12 32 1.19 OPPONENTS 27/27 204 3 73 2, 70 
A~l class1fred ads must be recented by 4 45 p m. twrJ days pnor 10 the tSStle trl whrL.:h the ad rs run The Observer offrce will accept ctass!freds MoncLw tt'trough Fmtav. 10 00 ,1m ro 5 00 p m All classrlrt!dS ,ust be
Classifieds ptf'-Pdrc1 f'r:her rn person or through the marl 
NOTICES j 
OVERSEAS JOBS • Summer/year round. Europe, S. Amer., Australia, Asia. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Slghtaeelng. Free Into. Wrlle: iJC, Box 52·1N4, Corona Del Mar, Ca. 92625. 
UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR THANKSGIVING SPECIAL 4 days, $39.95 wllh 200 tree miles. Phone 255·2323 lor reservations. 
lnslanl cash paid lor ladles' and men's class rings. $20-$100 or more. We make house calla. Also buying other gold llema. 255·2402. 
Found: Calculalor oil campus. Call 289·51 09 to Identify, 
PART TIME JOB. Ideal lor Sludenls. Telephone work from our olllce (Evening houra) Call Nancy 232· 8956 
TYPINGI Fasl, accurole, close by. 4 years' experience. Call 272·4105 alter 5 p.m. 
TYPING -Only $.55 a page. call Dan, 272·5549. 
CHICAGO HOT DOG STORE (DOWN· TOWNS. BEND) NEEDS COUNTER HELP 11:30·1:30 MON-SAl CALL 234-3400 BEFORE 11 :00. 
CHARISMATIC day ol renewal Sunday, Nov. 161·7 p.m. CALL: 6354 cx 8568 ALL ARE WELCOME 11111111111 
THE NEW JERSEY CLUB WILL BE RUNNING A XMAS BUS TO EAST BRUNSWICK AND NYC. SIGN-UPS WILL P.E ON MONDAY NOVEMBER 17 AT 7 P.M. IN THE WORTUNE BALL· ROOM. 
ATTENTION MEMBERS OF NATIONAL SKI PATROL We need your hefp, FOOD, TRANSPORTATION, and FUN provided. Call Larry lor Into. 277· 0010. Call Now. 
·I LOST/FOUND I 
FOUND: WOMAN'S WATCH, TUESDAY NIGHT AT PIPPIN AUDITIONS IN WORTUNE BALLROOM. CALL PAUL 8916 AND IDENTIFY. 
FOUND: a male mixed-breed puppy. all-while with some tan In lhe Eddy st. area around Logan Center Wednesday night, Nov.5 call 232· 
LOST-a pair at brawn women's glassft with tinted sun lenses. Lost , Monday between Lafortune and the ACC. II found please call Beth at 
' 1715 or 277-11037. 
LOST: MALE GOLDEN RETRIEVER NEAR BULLA ROAD. HE HAS A III:DDISH COAT AND MICHIGAN TAGS. CALL GENNY AT 283·8903. I MISS HIM. 
Tl51·2 CALCULATOR LAST TUES/WED. 
ACC/BUS. BLDG/SO. DINING HALL IF 
FOUND CALL ED 7979 
.....REWARD..... 
Lost in Lafortune: a marketing term project Lell near the copy machine. II found, please call 80115 
FOR RENT] 
FOR RENT: Elllclency a pl. In elegant old house near campus. Call Vern x3881 or 287-3132. 
Apl lor rent$50,00 month. Near school. lmmedlale.233·1329 
Wish to sublel 4 person ND apl. lor second semester. $90 each/month plus share utllllles. Secure; 10 mlnule walk lo campus. Call 233·2631 
FOR RENT· one bedroom apt., close lo campus. Large enough lor 2. $155@ utllllles a deposit Call Ron at Pandora's Books, 233·2342. 
WANTED 
Anyone who has pictures ol the Country Rock Jam PLEASE call John Higgins at 8553 or 8661. 
wanted: drummer lor rock/Jazz group. Must be willing Ia practice and own hlssel. Call Shawn-8275 or Luis 3045. 
riders to TORONTO tor weekend ol Nov. 141eavtng Fri. a.m. call mike at 1108. 
Need ride to Cleveland on Monday before Thanksgiving break. Will share driving and $$. Call Dan at 2850. 
RIDE NEEDED from north JERSEY to 
N.D. alter Thanksgiving. Jim 8 700, 
need a ride lo harrisburg ar philo. area lor THANKSGIVING VAC. Will share expenses. Call JON at 1807 or 1707. leave menage. 
WANTED USED GUITAR: ANY CONDITION: CALL 11920 
DESPARATELY NEED RIDE TO BAMA. CALL 277-8757 
FOR SALE 
2 USC tickets lor sale Call 607 256 6979 
PAN·AM TWO-FOR·ONE ROUND TRIP TICKETS ANYWHERE PAN·AM FLIESI $110 CALL 272·8722 
Old comic books lor sale. Over 6,000 to choose from. Also baseball cards, paperbaclcl and hardbaCks. KING'S BOOKS. 2033 S. Michigan, South Bend, Ind. 
TICKETS 

Alr Force GAs and Students needed Call 6251 or 1040 
NEED 4 GAs lor AIR FORCE GAME. Call Susan B.. 6945 
HELPI Rich uncle needs 2 GA llx to Alabama. please call284·5179. 
NEED MANY TICKETS TO AIR FORCE. GA PREFERED. CALL TIM AT 1650 
I WILL KILL MYSELF t(I don't get 2 OR 4 ALABAMA TIX. This Is URGENTIII Call Gordon al277·3617. 
SOUTHERN N.D. GRAD DIRELY NEEDS 1 TO 10 GA ALABAMA/N.D. TICKETS. WILL PAY FAIR PREMIUM PRICE, CALL COLLECT AT 504·927·6793. 
Need Alabama llckels desperately. Call Dave or Joe @ 1728. 
Need 2 or 4 Tlx lor Alabama. Call stan 1942 
Need desperately 2 or 3 GA Tlx to Air Force game. Call Nancy 5771 SMC. 
DESPERATELY NEED THREE STUDENTTIX FOR AIR FORCE. CALL 4375 
NEED 'BAMA TICKETSIIII CALL CHRIS AT 3283, 
Desperately need 3 STU or GA Air Farce tickets. I got lots ol money. Ken 8583 
Need 4 or 5 GA's lor Air Farce... DESPERATELYIII Please call Kalan at 8731 
Need 2 Air Force GA tickets. Call Mike 233·4436. 
NEED 4 AIR FORCE TICKETS. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL JOHN 1629. 
NEED AIR FORCE TIX CALL LARRY 1166 
NEED 3 A.F. GA TIX FOR UNCLE WHO HAS NEVER SEEN AN N.D. GAME CALL JIM 8103 
I need 2 G.A. tickets lor Air Force. Please call Mike at 8397, 
FOR SALE: FOUR GOOD GA TICKETS TOGETHER FOR AIR FORCE. BEST OFFER CALL JC AT 8540 AfTER 10 PM 
DESPERATELY NEED TIX FOR AIR FORCE CALL JEFF 232·0902 
1HAVE 2 BAMA TIX BESTOFFER 41·4378 
Desperately need many llx lor A.F. Ccall JOHN 3661 
NEED MANY STUDENT TIX FOR AIR FORCE -BITZ. 233·2865. 
MY ROOMATE WILL KILL ME IF I DON'T COME UPWITH SOME GAOR STUDENT AIR FORCE TICKETS. PLEASE CALL 4449 AND ASK FOR PAM OR 32113 AND ASK FOR CHRIS. 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GAs CALL JIM @ 8711 
Desperately need many AIR FORCE TIX · G.A. or STUDENT.WIII pay TOP DOLLAR. Call KARL al1579. 
PERSONALS 
Do you need liquid nitrogen to cool you oil? 
Studs does. 
SAVE THIS ADII HAIR BRAIDING at reasonable rates, lor formals parties, holidays. 291·8215 
VOLUNTEERS WANTED 
1. 
Tutor 2nd gr. girl, Basic Math. 

2. 
9th a 10th gr. vietnamese students, English a Math. 

3. 
Senior In h.s., Analytical Geometry · willing to pay. 

4. 
14 yr.old girl, Reading a Basic Math. 

5. 
17 yr.old boy, History a English. 

6. 
Vlsll with handicapped man, 


male preferred · willing to pay, Contact Volunteer Servlces,7308. 
HEY KELLY· WAS Ol' DAN WORTH ALL THE TROUBLE? 
Molarity: On the Road to Selling Oul. Available at tomorrow's auto· graph party, tram 3 to 5, In the Lafortune basement. 
Hllllllll 
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS, campus phone book distribution· Nov. 12, 13 8r 1• ·2nd floor Lafartune.... 9 • 4 p.m. 
HUII­
I am so glad I was finally able to track you down. We will have to gel together like old limes. Keep up the excetlenl work as Sports Editor ­
I'm proud ol yaul Goose 
HOW YOU DOIN' 
DEARARUN, HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY TO A VERY SPECIAL GUYI LOVE MOM,DAD,INDI 
ARE YOUR DOORS LOCKED ? IS IT SAFE IN THE SHOWER ? ASSASSIN IS HERE I 
III:MINDER: Applications lor the Social Concerns Seminar In Washington, D.C. aver Spring Break are due by 4:00 p.m. Friday, November 14 In the Center lor Experiential Learning (1110 East, Memorial Library). 

.lim, 
Thanks lor lhe offer lor a ride home Saturday nlghl, but we were able Ia lake lhe shuffle. Beller luck nexltlme. 
Guess Who 

P.S. I sHU owe you a pizza. 
Mr. Shusle(s roomate, 
Sorry I missed you on Salurday 

nigh!. J.D. )uslwouldn'lwakeyou up 
lor me. Oh well, beller luck next 
time. The "sexy" voice 
Ryan, 
Hope you had an excellent birth· 

doy party. I would have loved lo 
help you celebrale, but couldn't 
gel a ride. HoppyBelaled Blrlhdayll 
, Bridget 

P.S. I'll see yo at Senior Barlllll 
Miss Moran, 
Thanks lor the competition on 

Salurday nigh!. We ought to chug 
more allen. I sure hope you have 
recovered by now. 
Bridget 

P.S. What should we do this week· end? 
To My Favorite Plaglclase Fellzspar Happy 21st and thanks lor being the bell roommate ever. Love. YOUR MOTHER 
JAFF a JAFF BELATED BIRTHDAY WISHES.. .IRENE. 
ATTENnON ALL SMC ROME PROGRAM ALUMNI; There Is a meeting lor nexl year's Intents Thursday, November 13 at 6:30 pm, room 152 Regina • SMC. We would appreciate your presence to help answer questions. GRAZIEI 
TAVOLA ITALIANA Venlle a parlare 
Hallanol Glovedl sera aile cinque 
per cena nella "wedge room" a Sl Mary's. Senza Paurallllllll 
Sheila Have a hell ol a 19th B-Day II Love MJ 
Hev Do-Do Head Have a very mega­Merry Christmas. Love, Hugldo lr Annorexla. 
to ensign h, blr, "collonmauth" welsh, and the rest at the ALUMNI DOGS SUPERB SOCCER SQUAD: srOMP STANFORDIII a rabid tan 
lfs not too late Ia wish MARIA MICELI, that famous G.P. student and Infirmary employee, a.HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Call her at 11'3850 and she'll tell you her favorite home remedies tar curing those aches and pains. 
ATTENTION LADIES! THE BEST THINGS IN LIFE ARE FREE. SO DON'T MISS HOWARD HALL'S ANNUAL "HAT AND nE" PARTY THIS FRIDAY NIGHT FROM 9·1 AT GIUSEPPE'" ALOHA. 
THE NEW JERSEY CLUB IS RUNNING A XMAS BUS TO EAST BRUNSWICK AND NYC. SIGN·UPS WILL BE MONDAY NOVEMBER 17 AT 7 P.M. IN THE WORTUNE BALLROOM. 
DEAR BOB, I HAVE NO IDEA WHAT I AM DOING ON THIS CRAZY MACHINE! NOW THAT I'M RICH. I THOUGHT THAT I'D WASTE SOME MORE MONEY ON YOUI I REALLY 
HOPE THAT DUMB (OH, SORRY, I 
MEAN THAT CUTE RAT) DOESN'T TAKE 
MY PLACEI I HOPE THAT YOU WON'T 
FORGET ABOUT ME BECAUSE YOU'RE 
THE BEST THING IN MY LIFE. ALL MY 
LOVE, RONA 
"BILLY NEEDHAM," THANKS FOR BEING SUCH A PUPPYI LOVE, MAUll!:EN 
On Krls Locksmith's big 19th. we wish her lhe very best of birthdays. Sa go out and gel lhose birthday kisses. Love, Your Roomies 
ROCKY HORROR COMES TO EDEN, LISA, LilA. and MAUREEN throw the WILDEST and KINKIEST bash since Animal Hausefllllllllllllllllll Campus VIew Comes Alive FRIDAY Nlghft Apl. 103, Bldg, 533 COSTUMES PREFERIII:D II 
THEil!: WILL BE A SPORTS STAFF MEETING THURSDAY AT 6:30 P.M. 
TONIGHT IS THE NOT READY FOR 
PRIME TIME PEP RALLY ON THE STEPS 
OF HAGGAR HALL AT , ABC WON'T 
KNOW YOU'RE THEil!:, 'BAMA WON'T 
KNOW YOU'RE THERE, BUT THE TEAM 
WILL KNOW YOU'RE THEREI SO IIAG 
THE BOOKS FOR AWHILE AND COME 
CHEER THE IRISHI 
THE COUNCIL OF • 

THE GIRLS IN 343 BADIN ARE THE "CUTEST." ESPECIALLY J.P. LOVE, TRICK OR IIIII:WERS 
You da Heach year 
Your lrtends wall to hear 
lfs In the CARDS 
Send them to family, friends, and sis This year make sure no one Is missed lfl In the CARDS! 
ARE YOUR DOORS LOCKED ? IS IT SAFE IN THE SHOWER ? ASSASSIN IS HEREI 
Sheila Have ,a hell ol a 19th 8-Day II love MJ 
Terry, Today Is day 11 ol the only year ol your "PRIME"· you bellerget going· Sorry we couldn't buy you a roomie-HAPPY B·DAY Love, Con, Les. 8r Mo. 
Tom and Guya, Thanks tar all your help and concern. Things' are looldng beller everyday. You guya are the greatest. "The Roar· 

Wednesday, November 12, 1980 -page 12 
In hockey 
Bellomy: Irish Mr. Hustle 
by Tim Pn'ster Sports-Writer 
What are the chances of someone from Knoxville, Tenn. playing varsity hockey for the Umversity of Notre Dame? 
''That's what everyone asks me," says sophomore center Rex Bellomy. "Yet I actually began skating when I was about four years old. A few years later I began participat­mg in a youth hockey program. Meanwhile,'. my parents were taking me to see the area semi-pro games in the South­ern Hockey League." 
It didn't take long for Bellomy to take an interest in hockey with the support ofhis parents. 
In fact, it was his mother who taught him how to skate. Though! unlikely for a south­erner to grow up to play college hockey, Rex was for­tunate enough to travel north to play his final three years of high school. 
Bellomy played at Northwood Preo School in Lake Placid, 
N .Y .During his brilliant high school career, Rex received his share of awards. As a junior, Bellomy j participated in the Milton Tournament at the Mil­ton Academy in Boston, Mass. Northwood was victorious in the eight-team tourney and Bellomy was named to the all-tourney team and nabbed Most Valuable Player honors. 
In addition, Bellomy was elected captain of his senior squad and was also voted 
M.V.P. by his teammates. His M.V.P. honors were substan­tiated by his 25 goal-18 assist performance in 18 games. 
Rex was first spotted by head coach Lefty Smith at the annual Notre Dame summer hockey camp following his junior year at Northwood. 
Listed as both a center and a winger ·on the Irish roster, the versatile Bellomy attended Smith's camp two consecutive years. "I became interested in attending Notre Dame when Coach Smith encouraged me to consider the Irish hockey P.ro­gram. Fortunately, he liked what he saw of me in camp." 
Limited in playing time last year, Bellomy has already con­tribued 11 points in eight games this year with four goals and seven assists. At 5-11 and 175 pounds, Bellomy reue~ on his enthusiastic style of play to excell at his position. 
"I can't always rely on my speed or strength so I try to make up for that with my hustle. By constantly hustling, it gives me the opportunity to be around the puck more thus creating situations beneficial to us. " 
Bellomy doesn't single out a particular player on the team as being most influential be­cause of the closeness of the squad. 
'The whole team is extremely close and everybody is always offering encouragement. Not only are the players compli­mentary of their teammates but so are the coaches. Terry (Fairholm) is always available to help me with my slapshot and is quick to point out various aspects of my game that need improvement. 
"As for Lenny (Moher), he's always quick to offer encour­agement and is concerned with us a s people not just hockey players. Lenny often asks about how my classes and grades are shaping up." 
Fresh off a split with the number-one ranked Minnesota Gophers, the skaters have de­fimtely gained an added dose of confidence. 
"After playin~ Minnesota as tough as we dtd, we realized that we can improve upon our current 4-4 record. We really had no problem keeping up with the Gophers and if we can avoid the crtppling injuries that we suffered last year, we can have a successful season. 


Aragon seeks bid in NCAA's 
by Gary Grassey Sports Wrtter 
It may not be track season, but Chuck Aragon is back in the
' 
spotlight. 
Notre Dame hasn'tsent a cross country runner to an NCAA final in five years. This year, however, despite a disappointing season team-wise, coach Joe Piane seems to think he has an individ-­ual capable of matching the feat last performed in 1975 by Jim Reinhart -a runner Piane called "the best I've ever had." 
"I think Chuck (Aragon) def­initely has a shot at qualifying this weekend," said Piane of his senior co-captain, now preparing to run in Saturday's 10,000 meter (6.2 miles) NCAA District IV championships at the Univer­-;ity of Illinois (Champaign). 
"For someone who's primarily a half-miler," added the sixth­year coach, "Chuck ran a very creditable cross countryseason." 
Consistent might be a more accurate term. Aragon, whose c:xploits as an 800-meter man 
mu member of the All-America . rish two-mile relay team back in J 979 have been well-dotumen­red, was the top Notre Dame runner in four of five cross country meets this fall. 
But it takes more than one individual performance to bring about success in cross country. 
"We had three freshmen inour top seven this year," said Aragon, one of a limited contingent of Irish students from the state of New Mexico. "Ifyou lack exper­ence as a tearri, consequently you can't have consistency as a group. We lacked maturity, and racing savvy is something that only comes with experience. If we could ever put a race toget­her, I'd like to see how we'd do then." 
From week to week, Aragon has found himself alone in front of the Notre Dame pack, with occasional assistance _ from Piane's freshmen crew of barely tapped future potential-Ralph Caron, .\ndy Dillon, Dan Walsh, and Tim Novak. However, Aragon has not been ·overly pleased with his own perfor­mances to date. 
"I'm still looking for what I consider a good race," he said. "It's the same with track because I'm never satisfied there, either. When the team doesn't do well, I guess I feel even less satisfied. Although I've been training well and have put myself in a good position for the track season, I feel like I didn't run a real competitive effort until last week." 
At Notre Dame's double-dual meet last Saturday with Bowling Green and Northern Illinois, Aragon ran third in the three­

. team field, 11 seconds behind Greg Domantay's (N.I.) winning time of 24:29. 
"I ranwithaguy the whole way at Bowling Green and ifI run as . 
competitively as I did there," said Aragon, "I could qualify (for the NCAA finals in Wichita, Kan.). At least coach Piane seems to think so." 
"The top five individuals not on the top four teams will go to the finals," explained Piane. "Last year, the last guy to qualify came in tenth place and I know Chuck can run that well." 
Aragon, whose 1980 results have improved noticeably com­pared to last season's, attributed hissuccess thus far to an intensi­fied summer conditioning pro­gram back home in Los Lunas. "Weight training was new for me this summer," he said. "That and the fact that I was more consis­tent with my road work (nine to ten miles a day) have made me a lot stronger." 
He is hoping the pain barriers he's continued to go through in his training this fall might pay off in an NCAA final invitation this Saturday With the added dis­tance in a field with the likes of Indiana All-American Jim Spivey. 
"We're running six miles (ver­sus the normal five)," said Aragon. "But once you get past three or four, it hurts the same for everyone the rest of the way. I'll just go into the race like the basketball team would go into the playoffs and try to put the season behind me." 
An NCAA berth for Chuck Aragon would make a lot of people forget a disappointing cross country season. 
by Bill 

Irish/
tems Marquard 
DEJA VUE-This weekend's long-awaited clash with Alabama has all the indications of a remake of the 1976 battle between the two collegiate powers. The week before that centennial skirmish, the Irish had lost to Georgia Tech 23-14 while the Tide defeated Louisiana State, just as they did last week. 
Let's just hope that Saturday's result follows the pattern, since the Irish prevailed 21-18 in that 1976 showdown. 
PLAYING THE NUMBERS-Notre Dame by four. If you're a gambler, go for it. Ifyou're superstitious, go for it. If you're an accounting major, you can bet your last debit and credit on it. · 
The Irish have beaten Alabama in the only three meetings between the two schools. In their first-ever confrontation in the 1973 Sugar Bowl, Notre Dame claimed a tight one-point win, 24-23. In the 1975 OrangeBowl, the Irish managed a two-point decision, 13-11. And in that only regular season matchup in 1976, the Irish walked away with a three point victory. 
Thus, it's Notre Dame by four this year. Move over Fibonacci, it's the Irish sequence. 
IT'S A MIRACLE!-Seven years ago when Alabama and Notre Dame faced each other in the Sugar Bowl to decide the national championship, some Tide fans, who had a warped sense oftheir leader's powers, were selling pictures outside the stadium ofPaul "Bear" Bryant walking on water. As someone in the Irish party handed Ara Parseghian a copy of the photo, Parseghian replied, "Quick, get me five hot dogs and two cokes-I have 5,000 alumni to feed." 
TAKE A NUMBER-The Irish defense continues to blaze new trails of stinginess. They have not surrendered a touch­down in 16 quarters, and have not allowed a touchdown on the ground in 20 quarters, Irish foes have managed nine points total in the last four outings. 
A glance at the national numbers reveal that the Irish are fifth in total defense (223.0 yards per game), rushing defense (96.0 yards per game) and scoring defense (10.1 points per game). 
Over the last four weeks, the Irish have held their opponents to averages of 77.3 yards on the ground and 151.3 total yards. 
AND A CLOUD OF DUST-Both the Irish and the Crimson Tide boast two of the stronger rushing games and two of the weaker passing games in the NCAA. Notre Dame's rushing offense, although down from last week, is averaging 267.5.yards, good for 12th nationally. 'Barna, who has run the ball86 percent ofthe time it's had it, is in the country's top three in rushing at 319.2 yards per game. The Tide has completed only--35 passes in nine games thus far, while the Irish have managed 64 in eight contests. 
STARTING FROM SCRATCH-Since neither managed to gain 100 yards vs. the Ramblin' Upsets, bothJim Stone's and Phil Carter's consecutive 100-yard game rushing streaks have ended. Stone set a new school standard of four straight, while Carter equaled the then-reco:r;d three straight atMichigan State. 
Stone has averaged 149.4 yards in five starts this year. Despite the fact that his season average dipped to 102.5 over the weekend, Stone moved up to 19th in the NCAA rankings. 
SPIKING THE BALL--Irish placekicker Harry Oliver, who has already setNotre Dames's single season field goal rec­ord, is closing in on Dave Reeve's record 75 points in a season for a placekicker. Ol­iver is still ntnked third nationally with two field goals per game and he is rated 17th with 7 .) points per outing (63 total). 

Oliver almost had his chance for the school record last week, when Devine sent him in to attempt a 54-yarder in the first quarter. But after further consideration, Blair Kiel was sent in to punt instead. 
I CAN TOP THAT-Dan Devine heads into this weekend's game as the nation's second winngest active college coach. He sports a 171-54-9 overall record(. 733 percentage)with a 51-14­1 (.780) mark at Notre Dame. Devine owns a personal 2-0 record against the Crimson Tide with a 35-10 win in the Gator Bowl while coaching at Missouri to go along with the 1976 Irish victory. 
Needless to say, the winningest active college coach will be standing across the field from Devine on Saturday. "Bear" Bryant has compiled a 304-78-16 mark in over 35 years of coaching, but still sees crimson when he thinks about the Irish since he has come away empty-handed in three tries. 
FAN-TASTIC-Dan Smith, a recently retired architect and a graduate ofNotre Dame in 1938 who resided in Peoria, Ill., never minded driving from Peoria to South Bend for five or six home football games each year. He even stayed till the bitter (cold) end of that comeback-of comebacks in the 1979 Cotton Bowl. But age has finally taken its toll-he just couldn't drive to South Bend for sometimes three home basketball games in one week as well. The result: Smith moved to South Bend upon his retirement. 








