
I I I 
Steelers -page 12 


Volume XIV No..§]_) an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's Monday, '·January 18, 1980 

Jam packed ACC crowds roared their approval Fn"day and 5_aturday nights as the lnsh 
swept their weekend sen·es versus Colorado College. For detazls see page 12. [photo by 
Mike Bigley] 
To fight holy war 
Afghan rebels unite against &>viets 

(AP) -Moslem revolutionaries rejected concilauon with the Marxist Afghan government yesterday and announced plans to unite rebel factions into a single guerrilla front to fight a holy war against Soviet troops in Afghanistan, according to an Iranian state radio report. An Afghan Islamic Organiza­tion official in Tehran said the revolutionaries never would ac­cept offers of negotiation from the Soviet-backed Afghan government in Kabul or end their attempt to rid Afghanistan of Soviet troops, Tehran Radio reported. Most of the Afghan rebel groups have headquarters in either Iran or Pakistan. "The Afghan revolutionaries' duty is to expel the Soviet forces from Afghanistan through Jihad, (holy war) not through negotiations,'' the of­ficial was quoted as saying. Discussions are under way, he was quoted as saying, anong seven Islamic organizations to form a guerrilla alliance to fight the Soviet troops, which helped bring the government of Presi­dent Babrak Karma! to power on Dec. 27 and are now battling guerrilla units in the Afghan countryside. · Government leaders in Iran and Pakistan are expressing fears of movements by thou­sands of Soviet troops near their borders. U.S. estimates of Soviet troop strength in Afghanistan has run as high as 100,000. In a effort to assure the Pakistan government, Presi­dent Carter said on NBC's "Meet the Press," yesterday, the United States would be prepared to use military force. to protect Pakistan. He also said he would increase the level of U.S.Naval forces in the northern Indian Ocean-Persian Gulf 
Carter proposes worldwide boycott of Olympic games 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­current course to underminethe dent Carter proposed yesterday policy of easing tension and that the world's athletes boy­reviving the Cold War,'' said cott the Moscow Summer the radio in an english-lan­Olympics, or 'move the games guage newscast early today. to another country, unless Carter, who is honorary pres­Soviet troops are withdrawn idem of the U.S. Olympic from Afghanistan within one Committee, has no legal month. authority to dictate an Ameri­
Declaring that "it is very can boycott. Instead, he said he 
important for the world to was making recommendations realize how serious a threat" in the form of a message sent the Soviets pose, Carter said Sunday to officials of the U.S. that even if other. nations Olympic committee. ignored his appeal, "I would As he left the NBC studio, 
not favor the sending of an Carter was asked if he expect­American Olympic team to ed a favorable response from Moscow while the Soviet in­the Olympic Committee. vasion troops are in Afghan­"I think so," he said. istan.'' Appearing at the same time on 
Appearing on the NBC "Meet ABC's "Issues and Answers," the Press'' television program, Sen. Edward Kennedy said he the president suggested the would support an Olympic boy­Olympics could be moved to cott. some other city or cancelled ''But,'' he added, ''I want to entirely if the Soviet forces are. make it very clear that a grain not withdrawn. embargo and a boycott of the 
''I do not want to inject politics Olympics are basically symbols, into the Olympics,'' Carter and symbols are no substitute 
said, explaining that he would for an effective foreign policy.'' "personally favor" the ~stab­Kennedy is Carter's main lishment ofa permanent srte for challenger in the competition 
both the Summer and Winter for delegates to the Democratic Olympics. He suggested national convention. The race Greece would be an ideal begins in earnest today at Iowa summertime choice. party caucuses. 
area. Afghan official as saying, "For In the Soviets' first reaction to And on CBS's "Face theThe United States already has several weeks suspicious troop Carter's suggestion, Moscow Nation,'' Republican presi­
promised to give Pakistan $400 mivements have been detected radio labeled the president's dential candidate George Bushmillion to shore up its defenses, on the Chinese side." 
proposal "futile." said he also favors cancellationespecially along its 1,200-mile The Cuban dispatch also said ''Observers assess Mr. Car­of U.S. participation in theborder with Afghanistan. Afghan leaders were concerned ter's attempts to exert pressure Moscow games. 
A dispatch from Kabul by the about a possible attack from on the Soviet Union as futile
correspondent for Cuba's 

[continued on page 4] and reflecting Washington's [continued on page 4]
Prensa Latin news agency quoted an unnamed Afghan official as saying "strong con­tingents" of Afghan troops _are moving because of a possible invasion. 
Afghanistan and China share a 


Waldheim hints ofprogress
short, mountainous frontier of about 50 miles at the eastern 
end of and arm of Afghanistan AP -U.N. Secretary-General that he hoped would lead to the Embassy said they knew noth­extending between the Soviet Kurt W aldheim said yesterday release of American hostages in ing of such a formula. he had worked out a formula Tehran. But militants holding Meanwhile, the Soviet Embas­
Union and Pakistan. 
Prensa Latin quoted the during his recent trip to Iran the Americans at the U.S. sy· in Tehran issued a state­ment emphasizing its ''friendly approach'' toward Iran and denying its troops in Afghanis­
In Columbia 
tan, along the border with Iran, are positioned to strike at major Iranian oil installations. 
Tehran radio reported Iranian leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini accepted a proposal 
Bleachers collapse at bullring 
Bogota, Columbia (AP) -Five sections of crowded the hospitais corndors, crying for to amend the new Islamic crowded wooden bleachers atop the grandstand information about missing relatives and friends. constitution to permit Sunni at the bullring in Sincelejo collapsed yesterday The wooden bleachers were built above and Moslems have the same rightsand hospital officials said at least 147 persons extended beyond the rim of the regular as members of Iran's majority were killed and about 500 were injured. grandstand. They were supported by long Shiite sect. "Personally, I have 
beams down to the ground. 
Witnesses reported some of the victims were no objection,'' Khomeini was 
''We were at the eastern-end grandstand when
impaled on splintered beams, others were quoted as saying.
suddenly I noticed that one of the sections began
trampled to death by padic-stricken fans and Waldheim, in New Delhi, In­
to fall backwards and then the other four fell
many of the injured survivors were drenched in dia to attend a U.N. conference, 
blood. trapping thousands of persons,'' said Eduardo told reporters after his arrival: Ruiz.
They estimated some 3,000 persons were ''The Important aspect of my 
standing in the bleachers that crumbled along He was one ofan estimated 40,000 fans packing visit to Tehran was that we one outside wall of the bullring and fell to the the bullring, which is the largest in Columbia. worked out a package. a mech­
ground. Officials said about 3,000 persons were in the anism, which willhopefullymake grandstand section that fell. it possible to release the hos­
Sincelejo hospital and the town's San Francisco Authorities blamed recent heavy rains for the tages.''
health center reported to the Civil Defense tragedy, saying the ground under the grand­The secretary-general did notDepartment that they had 97 bodies from the 
stand foundations had turned soft and the elaborate on what he meant by disaster. The hospital in Corozal about three sections collapsed under the weight of the "mechanism." Nor was it clear miles away reported it had received at least 50 crowd. whether his use of the wordbodies. · Witnesses said the sections collapsed like "we" referred to his U.N.
The minister of public health, Alfonso Jara­
dominoes as excited fans were watching scores associates or to Iranian authori­millo, ordered a mobilization of regional health of youths and men in the ring evade bulls during ties.
officials and appealed for collections of blankets a popular bull-running event before the regular
and medicines. Hundreds of hysterical persons bull fights. [continued on page 2] 

~--~ -~­


News in brief 
Monday, January 21, 1980-page 2 
Durante 's vitals deteriorate 
• • • Waldheitn 
as condition remains stable 
[continued from page I] 
SANTA MONICA, Calif. (AP) ·Veteran entertainer Jimmy 
Waldheim, who made a New Durante remains in stable condition with pneumonitis, but 
Year's Eve trip to Iran in his viral signs continue to deteriorate, a spokeswoman for St. 
attempts to gain freedom for John's said yesterday. The 86-year-old comedian and actor 
the Americans, added: "We is still semi-conscious and suffering from lung congestion, 
have worked out a mechan­spokeswoman Vicki Fairley said. 
ism ... and I hope this mechan­ism will make it possible to satisfy the government of Iran and lead to the release of the
Tennessee Board suspends 
hostages. 
"I am still personally involved in the efforts to find a peaceful solution (to) this very serious

license of Elvis's physician 
problem,'' Waldhetm said, addinf:i that he was in ''constant touch ' by telephone with Iran­
MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) · A member of the Tennessee Board 
ian Foretgn Minister Sadegh of Mc;di~al Examiners says Elvis Presley's physician, who 
Ghotbazadeh. lost hts ltcense for three months for overprescribing drugs 
He said he had no plan to visit Iran again but ''if it can lead to a solution of the problem, I would not hesitate to make another trip." 
W aldheim met with Ghotbaz­adeh while in Tehran the first week of January, but Khomeini refused to meet him. 
Waldheim said the hostages' release could not be expected soon, explaining: "It will be a long process One should be fully aware this takes time and we cannot expect an immediate solution of the problem.''
In Tehran, a spokesman reach­ed at the embassy by telephone said he has no knowledge of any arrangement worked out bet· ween W aldheim and Iranian government officials. The spokesman said that regardless of whatever has been agreed to "nothing would possibly lead to the release of the hostages but the extradition of the ousted shah and the return of his wealth." 
Ghotbazadeh and forei~n ministry officials were unavatl­able for comment Sunday night. 
The spokesman also denied recent speculation that the set· ting up of an international commission to investigate the alledged crimes of deposed Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlawi could speed release of the hostages. 
1  rock 'N' roll singer were given to other members of his entourage. Witnesses said thousands ofpills were destroyed after bemg replaced with harmless placebos. Bush accuses President of having weak foreign policy WASHINGTON (AP) . George Bush, a candidate fo~ the Republican presidential nomination, accu~ed. Prestd~nt Carter on Sunday of having a weak and va_ctllanng fore!gn policy and said the United States should act like we are gomg to resist Soviet aggression.'' Bush, ~pearing on the CBS news program "Face the Nation," satd Carter's policy of cancelmg shipment of 17 milli~n metric tons of gram ~o the Soviet Union was hurting Amencan farmers more than tt was· the Russians. Tito loses leg in illness, raises military speculations BELGRADE, Yugoslovia (AP) · Doctors amputated the left leg of President Tito yesterday after a circulation blockage "jeopardized life," the official Tanjug news agency announced. The 87-year-old Yugoslav leader and elder statesman of the non-aligned movement "bore the operation well,'' said a three-sentence medical announcement, delayed about six hours beyond the usual advisory time. "The immediate post-operative course is normal," Tito's doctors were quoted as saying. Belgrade was awash with rumo.rs of troop movements, military alerts and other precautt?n~, although the capital appeared ~aim. Bec~use of Tt~o s independent brand of commumsm and hts. antagomsm toward the Kremlin, his illness had raised speculation about whether the Soviets would take any Anti-Yugoslav action if Tito were to die. Weather Mostly sunny this morning with increasing clouds in the afternoon. Htghs in the mid 30s. Snow likely tonight and contimuing tomorrow. Lows tonight in the mid 20s and highs tomorrow 30 to 35.  

 
6:45 p.m. ROSARY, daily at the GROTTO. 7:00p.m. MEETING, senior arts festival. LAFORTUNE BALLROOM. 7:00 p.m. MEETING, women's crew, LAFORTUNE BALLROOM. 10:00 p.m. MEETING, all mardi gras committee and hall chairmen, SENIOR BAR. .  

BOSTON (AP) · A letter from three hostages in the U.S. embassy in Tehran, published yesterday in the Boston Herald American, pleads for Ameri­cans to "obtain our release." 
"We believe that the stu­dents' demand for the ex­shah's extradition is justified and we urge all Americans to write to their senators and congressmen and ask them to do all that they can to bring about the return of the ex­shah," it said. 
The letter was one of three known to have arrived in Mas­sachusetts in the past five days. 
Merton Bland, a State Depart­ment spokesman, immediately labeled the letter ''so far, the only propagandistic piece that completely echoes the senti­ments of the so-called stu­dents.'' 
He said copies of the letter, dated Jan. 11, were sent to at least 20 U.S. newspapers and were among 15lletters brought 
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor: ] ohn Smith Asst. Night Editor: Teri ''cripple'' Michielutti, Deirdre Murphy Copy Editor: Lynne Daley Layout Staff: ] ean Steinbrenner News Editor: Mike Lewis, Margie Brassil Features Layout: Kate Farrell Sports Layout: Paul Mullaney, Brian Beg lane Typists: Paula "I'm shrink­ing'' Shea, Mary Beth Budd, Marilyn Broderick EMT: The Master "G" Proofreader: Rick Freedman ND Day Editor: Bob Bernoskie Photographer: ·Tim McKeogh ~ Guest Apperances: Maureen ''Future Smickchick'' Brassil Mary Pat "Rolled Down the Hill" Sitlington, Panama Red 
Till Obslmr (USPS 511 128) II 
published Mondly through Friday a­cept during tum 1nd VICitllllperitds. The Observer 11 pubi!Dtd by tilt students If Notre 011111 1M Sltllt Miry's Ctlllgt. Sublcrtpllea lillY Ill purdiiMII tor S2D per ..., 11• ,.,llmlltlrl trem The Observer, P.O. Ills Q, Nttr1 b1mt,llldll111 ... s-et clau '=I' pilei, Nttrt 011111, •• 
dillll . The Observer II 1 ,......., II 1111 ~ "-· All ••l6iclltn
rtglltl .,. riiiMd. 
was a good doctor but kept poor records. The five-membe; board vot~d unanimously to suspend the license of Dr. George; Ntchopoulos for three months and place him on 
Boston newspaper receiVes letter probauon for three years. During the five-day hearing, people tesufied that many ofthe drugs prescribed for the late 
from three American hostages 
from Iran by ] ohn Thomas vice president of the Inter~ national Indian Treaty Council of New York. 
The 11-paragraph letter to the Herald Amencan was signed by Sgt. Kevin]. Hermening, 20, ot Oak Creek, Wis., Staff Sgt. Joseph Subic]r., 22, ofRedford Township, Mich., both Mar­ines, and State Department employee, Steven Lauterbach, 28 of North Dayton, Ohio. 
"Since we have been hos­tages, we have been shown many documents, pictures and other information which has convinced us that the ex-shah did indeed commit many crimes in Iran," they wrote. 
"The Iranian students ... have only one demand ... They will never back down or give 10, and plan to hold us as hostages until the shah is returned to Iran for judgement.'' 



Monday, January 21, 1980 -page 3
The Observer 



President defends policies at caucus 
In California 
Outer trails Kennedy in straw poll 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Sen. Edward M. Kennedy narrowly defeated President Carter yes­terday in a straw vote of ·California Democratic Party leaders. 
The Massachusetts senator won the support of42 percent of the delegates at the California Democratic Party convention. Carter came in at 39 percent and California Gov. Edmund BrownJr. was a distant third in his home state with 14 percent. 
The actual vote total was Kennedy 622, Carter 583 and Brown 207, with another 59 votes scattered among minor 

Search committee lists Senior Fellow nominations 
The following have been nom­inated as candidates for Senior Class Fellow: 
Nominees 
Alan Aida (actor) Isaac Asimov (author) Rocky Bleier (pro football) Bill Bradley (Congressman) George Burns (actor) Rod Carew (pro baseball) Bill Cosby (comedian) Walter Cronkite (newscaster) Katherine. Graham (owner, 
Washington Post) 
Bob Greene (columnist, 
Chicago Tribune] 
Cathy Guisewtte (creator, Cath'l comic strip) Dustm Hoffman (actor) Bob Hope (actor, comedian) Barbara Jordan (ex-Congress­woman) Jerry Lewis (actor, comedian) AI McGuire (basketball coach, commentator) Mary Tyler Moore (actress) Ara Parseghian (ex-football coach) Wilma Rudolf (former Olympic athlete) Neil Simon (playwright) Frank Sinatra (singer) Bruce Springsteen (musician) Gloria Steinem (feminist) Kurt Vonnegut (author) Henry Winkler (actor) 
ELECTION RULES 
1) Voting will take place Wed­nesday, January 23 from 11:30­1 pro in LaFortune lobby and both Dining Halls, and from 5-6 pm in the Di~ing Halls. 
2) Each semor must present his/her I.D. to vote for a first, second, and third choice on the given ballot. 
DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) ­President Carter defended his foreign policy as •'peace through strength," urged a boycott of the Moscow Olym­pics, said he needs a second term to deal with energy and the economy -and insisted he was not campaigning on the eve of the first presidential contest of 1980. 
Carter, his Democratic chal­lengers and the field of candi­dates for the Republican presi­dential nomination will be test­ed tonight in Iowa's precinct caucuses, neighborhood meet­ings that represent the first step toward the selection of nominees for the White House. 
The president, who has not campatgned personally in Iowa, appeared Sunday on NBC's nationally televised ''Meet the Press,'' and did what candi­dates do.. But he said it was not a partisan performance. 
His rivals for the White House, campaigning in Iowa and on televtsion, accused him 
candidates and uncommitted. 
Kennedy said in a statement he was "delighted" with the results. ''It clearly demon~ strates that members of the Democratic party in the na­tion's largest state are unwill­ing to accept four more years of current policies and are looking for new leadership in the 1980's' he said. 
But Kennedy's victory was not as great as most observers had predicted, and spokesmen for all three candidates claimed victories of one sort or another. The people who come to conventions are activists. 
3) First place votes are worth 5 points. Second place votes are worth 3 points. Third placC)I votes aie worth 1 point . 
4) Twelve final nominees will be chosen on the basis of their total points. Profiles of the final candtdates will be printed in The Observer at a later date. 
5) Write-in votes will be count­ed, however, seniors should consider that the chance of a write-in candidate receiving a final nomination is limited. Thus, a write-in vote could be a wasted vote. 
If anyone has any questions, call Mary Reppa at 3212 or Sue Kunkel at 3784. 

&nior"Arts Festival holds meeting 
There will be a general meeting of the Senior Arts Festival today at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune ballroom. All Com­mittee chairpersons should at­tend, as well as any other individuals interested in parti­cipating in the Festival, in the following areas: dance, drama, painting and drawing, sculp­ture, music, photography, architecture, film, and writing. Contact Kim Gumz at 7977 for more information. 
of disastrously mismana~ing the economy, and said admmis­tration foreign policy was so weak and meffective as to tempt the Soviet Union into aggressive military adventures. 
While the candidates argued policy and issues -and tried to set each other ur for a fall tonight -the crucia competition was waged by telephone and door-to-door canvassers. 
Carter and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy are waging the real Democratic contest, in organi­zational strength as in popular support. California Gov. Ed­mund G. Brown Jr. lags in both departments, and has advised his supporters to side with uncommitted Democrats to­night. 
Meanwhile, Kennedy narrow­ly defeated Carter Sunday in a straw vote of California Demo­cratic Party leaders. 
Kennedy was supported by 42 percent of the delegates at the California Democratic Party convention. Carter came in at 39 percent and Brown was a 
They're the kind of people who ought to be in Kennedy's back pocket. And yet we fell short by only 39 votes," said state Assemblyman Michael Roos, Carter's California campaign chairman. 
"We think it's very sigrl.ificant that the Carter-Mondale cam­paign made such a great come­
back,'' added Les Francis,  na­ 
tional  staff  director  of  the  
Carter campai~n.  

Brown's chtef spokesman, chief of staff Gray Davis, who earlier had said the straw vote was meaningless and a waste of time also said he was pleased with the result. 
''The governor did better than either of his rivals anticipated. We made only a very modest effort. Dick O'Neill (state party chairman) said at the start of 
the convention we'd be luck to 
get fo percent. We improved on that quite a bit and we're pleased,'' Davis said. 
·-------------------------~
I I
I Have you had experience in volunteer service or social action serving the needs of others? II Do you want to live a simple life in Chri.,ian oommunity with othe"' like yourself? I 
I I I
1 
I I 



~-------------------------~ 
.FEBRUARY 22-24 DEADLINE EXTENDED FOR RETURNS FRI. JANUARY 25 12:00 m. 
'1USi be 

.. ;.~led to Student Activities

. 

If you have not received the weekenc;t pack~t it m~y be picked !I.P _this week in Student Activities Office ,LaFortune. any questio~s call: JIM RIEDMAN 1023 SMITH BRIAN CLINGEN 1172
1321 
Do you have a sense of ministry to the world and to the Church as a lay person? I 
Do you desire to live and to explore further in your life the ideals of Christian service and I community as a lay person? 1 
If so, we invite you to consider the holy cross Associates program. We have placements in 1 Santiago, Chile, Nairobi, Kenya, Phoenix, Arizona, Hayward/Oakland California, and Portland, Oregon. I 
For further information contact: I Mary Ann Roemer orJudith Ann Beattie. esc I Volunteer Services LaFortune Center I 
distant third in his home state program "Face the Nation." with 14 percent. "Lower your own expecta-
In Republican competition, tions, elevate the other guy's, former California Gov. Ronald then if you get clobberea you Reagan led the last Iowa Poll, can say I told you so.'' and his managers say he will In keeping with those rules, win the caucus competition -former Texas Gov. John B. which, on the GOP side, is Connally, Baker, Sen. Bob Dole actually a straw vote that will of Kansas and Rep. Philip not bind convention delegates. Crane ofIllinois all played down 
Reagan· staged a limited per-their chances. Rep. John sonal campaign in Iowa, but Anderson of Illinois came to counted heavdy on long-time Des Moines to debate the other supporters and-·organizational Republicans, then campai~ned efforts. elsewhere, saying Iowa dtdn't 
Senate Republican Leader mean much. With one day to Howard H. Baker Jr. and go, his supporters opened a former U.N. Ambassador campaign headquarters. George Bush were Reagan's Kennedy played the expecta­dosest rivals in the state poll tions game, too, trying to conducted by the Des Moines inflate Carter's. "!would think Register. Bush claims to be the president is dearly a heavy better organized, and said yes-favorite in Iowa,'' he said on terday that while no one should ABC's "Issues and Answers." expect him to win the Iowa "I think we'll have a strong contest, "we might do better showing. I can't predict the than expected." percentages we'll have, but 
"ft's the oldest thing in poli-clearly, the president has to tics," he said on the CBS gain 50 percent of the vote." 
~---------------~-.......~ 

RIVER CITY RECORDS 
northern in,diana's latgest tecotd and tape selection and concert ticket headquartets 
Sl.OO OFFII 
any album or tap• Expires February 4, 1980 
(limit 1 coupon per person) 

18,000 albuma and tapea In stock 
ND/SffiC atu~nt ch~ka accept•d fot up to J20.00 ove1 putchaa• amount 
Open 10 to 10, 7daya a w••k 
Rivet Clt.Y Recotds 
50970 U.S. 31 North 3 mil•• north of campua 
277-4242 
----~--~~~~-... 


The Observer Monday, January 21, 1980 -page 4 
[continued from page I] 

deciding not to send athletes for a good cause than to undercut 
Robert F. Kane, pres,ident of the Olympic Movement." the U.S. Olympic Committee, Asked about the difference said he was pleased with between a boycott and not Carter's statement because the sending a team, Kane said: president asked that the com­"This has been difficult to mittee take the issue to the make clear. We don't want to International Olympic Commit­abdicate our position in the tee. IOC. To boycott would take us 
• • • Boycott "I was very pleased that· he out of that." did not advocate a boycott,'' Presidential Counsel Uoyd Kane said. ''A boycott would Cutler was asked at the White take us out of the Olympic House what would happen if Movement and he would have the U.S.Olympic commtttee re­no voice in deliberations.... fused Carter's request. "I There is a great difference in don't think that contingency • should arise," he said. 
Cutler added, however, that the government could use pass­pons and its "powers to control 



Observer needs typists. 
financial dealmgs with other countries" to ensure a U.S. team did not participate in the Olympics.

all Kim at 8122 or 8661 
Asked ifCarter expected other countries to go along with his action on the Olymptcs, Cutler said,' 'The best information that we can get is that there is a groundswell of public opinion in many sectors of the world that this is what should be done." 
Cutler said the president told 
ENGINEERING AND COMPUTER SCIENCE SENIORS 
CoiDe to our OPEN HOUSE 
• • . Rebels 

(continued from page I) Details of the discussions be­
tween Huang and Zia were not Pakistan's northeast border disclosed. area. It said: "According to In an apparent new move official spokesmen, American, toward conciliation with the British and Chinese advisers rebels, meanwhile, the Afghan are training a contingent of government announced it will 
more than 70,000 soldiers (in change its communist-style, all­Pakistan) for an operation red national flag, which has against Afghanistan.'' been attacked by Afghanistan's Soviet leaders have repeatedly fiercely anti-Communist clergyclaimed that U.S. and Chinese as a symbol of atheism. The agents are training Afghan flag was introduced in Aprilrebels at bases in Pakistan. 1978 when the country's first Chinese Foreign Minister Marxist government came to 
Huang Hua met with Gen. power m a coup. 
Mohammad Zia ul-Haq, ·the 
It was widely believed that Pakistani president and visited green, the traditional color if 
Aza Khel, a camp for 6,000 Islamic pennants, would be pan
Afghan refugees in Pakistan. 
of the new flag's color scheme. 
Juang reiterated his govern­There were fresh indicationsment's support for the Moslem • over the weekend that Sovietrebels, and told leaders at the troops have a tough fight oncamp, 60 miles from the border their hands with insurgentwith Afghanistan, that China forces that have been fightingalso will assist the 438,000 the Afghan government for 20Afghan refugees believed to be months.
in Pakistan. 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Bulldln& 
JOB INTERVIEWS AJ.E OPEN TO SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUO£ln'S IN ntE HAY AHD AUGUST CI..US!S, • · • • 
1J:N WHO tNT~D TO HAVE INTEit:VIEWS HUST HAVE A COI1PLET!:D PROFILE (UClSTlATIOII) '* flU AT 
111E PLACEHEN'T BUREAU.. . .••. REGISTRATION, INTERVIEW SIGH-UP SHEETS AHD DG'LOYI::II: I.ITUA­
TUR! ARE IN ROOH 211, ADMIN, BLDG. 
COMPLETE EMPLOYER SPEClflCATIOHS ON OF.GREF.S, JOB TITLES, LOCATIONS AMP CITIZDISHIP Al:l!: 
LlSTEO ON 111£ A1TACHEO SHEt:TS FOR ntf. FIRST WEEK~-
SPllNG SUPPLEHE.NT TO ntE Pl.ACDIDT _fWfllAL WIU. IE AVAlt.AIU AT 111r._ 
PLACEMENT auiiAiJ'o"iJR!NC.!!fE wtEtr Q!..l_AltU.U'f_j.!_~ ..M-~ 
~~o.f!!!.S. -i[~R_P_IQ:. _uP_ ~IJ_R-WM C:2!!· 
TIU! SIGlt-UP Pt:RlOD 15 FROM 8~00 A.M. TO ~:00 P.H., HONDAY THilOUGH THURSDAY, B'£CINMING 
PLEASf twi£ IHTERVIEW WCAT!DH5 AT TlH! OF SlGH-VP. 
You MUST SIC;N FOR YOUfl INHKVIF.WS P~:RSONALLY • 
F.KP1.0YI:;R5: CKKONOLOCU.Al 
MtA'RUl1'lNC FOR 
01110 EDISON COHPAHY
Jan 31 
1. Electric Utility. 2. B in EE, tu:., Cht. ), Vartou. Enar poaitlona. 4. Akron and Norttt.aatorn Ohio. ~. Par-. Rea. V:l.aa. 
• H 
PROCT!II. ' CAHILl CO. HA1Ut£TINC-Ili44D twtACDIDIT
• 
I 
1. tukea aad -ruu ao~~pa &Ad dcuraanu, tollat aooda, food, paper an4 lnd.u.trtal prod~c... 2. I :l.a all d:l.acipUn.aa. IGA. ), It~ "--&-t ia.COifPOt&taa all aajN"cta ol -l"Ht1a&, 1ncludJ.na IMciJa pl-iq,
::!:: ~!!:c:•;oiU:.":!~:~:c~~-==:~; 
v:l.th advartltli.aa qendea to d.valop adval"tt.iaa COPJ·
I 
4, CiaciiUlati, OM. S. Per-. ba. VlM. 
paocru ' GAMBLE CO. PUIIT IWaiFACTVIlUIC KA!AGDIJ!T
IH 
1. Mak.aa and -tkata WAPA and detataaau, toilet aooda,
l~i 
food, papu and :I.Adu.u:l.al proclucta. 2. M J.a as&, 
.. 
ME, U, cr., MilO. -.. vldt tac.h II. ), Pl-t Mao~ 
. I 
I 
i 
ractur:l.na Kan&~--t, Pl-t Maiat-...ca/Tadul:l.cal lqr, Ara/Stalt PI'Gject &qr, Jraff/Pt~ ~cal JDar. Atea/Staff lndu.tr:Lal Eaar· 4. Papu Pl.Mit at Gr­
1 
lay, Wl; ioap/Vood Plaat at Cll.l.c.q,o, lL &ad otbelr 
poaaible location.. s. Per-..... vt... 
1~ " 
PROCTER • GA!!ILI co. U,D/PilODUCT Dtvr:l.OI'fl!lrl' 1 
I 
1. Mak.. W urkau aoape ..wt deteraaata, toilet aoode, food, paper and 1D4uatdal ptochtcta. 2. Ill 1o CitE. 11IA vlth UCtd.ar&red~AAte dear•• :La Chi or a.-. ), Prv­ceaa Devda~t, Pr-oducta Iee-tch (0\& aDd MIA) • 
Tachn:l.col Pock.aa:Lna, U.D/Procluct DovdopiiCIIlt. 4. C1n­
c1nnac1, OfL S. Pana. lea. YJ:-. 
I I 
• 
• 
~:!~~~=~!!,::Dc!:!:St.a~nk. 2. I ia lcoo. All IIA. ]. Harrh Hanas-nl Proar•. •· Chlca&Oo lL· 
s. Pon~. tte.. Yi-. 
ALLI5-CHAI.JII£1l5 COli'
t"ob J. 
1. Hanufacturn of ipeciaUty !clu:L.-•IIIt. z. I ill Cbl, HtlO. ). Prouaa Dev•lo.-.stt Prop•, llaaufacturiq D•vdo.-.at, QA, u; -cl Mfl lai~"• 4. K.U-w..e, Vl and ¥arlo...-CCJ~l9M.J toucloQa chc~t U.l. J:, hm. 
.... Yia•. 
PlUT WISCOHSUI NATIOKAL lAIII. 
1. ~anun1 . 2. -.with rta, kct, l*.t ~q.-tl or coactn. ). Manaa-•t tra~. •· Kilw.aulwe, vt. ,, ..... ba. Vha. 
HAll.ll TlUIT AND SAVlltCS aAHI.
I
Feb 1 1. full-hrvic~ c.-.rclnl lnnlr.. 2. II in !.con. All JIA, J. a.rrb JMnaa_.,r Proar-. 4. Chiuao, JL. 
5. Pen. llt'a. Vha. 
.. 
1M IIH 
i.T~=:~a~r;~=!!".:n~·~cy. 2.1.]. IH in Slavic, 
Near Ea•t•rn and Far Eaat•"' lanJIUII•• for Llnautac-­
rranalarion, U"4lll•crfprioa. IH Jn U for Elacrronic 
Enar-Deaian, l4D. IN ln eo.p Sd for c.-puur lct­
•ntiat--Syar_,. d••lan, protr-lnJ. 4. Ft. H..de, HD. 
5. Cithenahlp required. 
1M 
NCl ITITDIS ENClNUJllltG 
1. Software Dovdo.-.nt. 2. 11M ln eo.,., Set or Math with C:O.p Sd ftlph..h. ], Syac... At\alyau lnvolvM
I '" develo.-.nc or n-.ortwere proclucta for u•n-ction pr-oceaalna. 4. Dayc-, Oft, s. Par.. ~·· Vtaa.
I.,. 
.. 
I 
HCA NJCilOeUCTIOJfJCJ J, Mlcroelectron:Lc hvicea. t. 1M ia 1!0 Circulu. 
Laale: Co.p Sci (Dlalul); Solid Stah Phyalca. ], Da­
aian and D•valop.ent o( ti)S 1-h:anductora and proc•un 
I 
I 
ror thair ..nuf•ct•r•, an4 ultl-te u1e tn ca.J~utortaod 
I 
ayn... and •qui,-n[. 4. Nl•:Labura, ott. s. r .....
.... .,,... 
HICHIGAII STATI UNIVUSlTY. ClADUATE 501001. or ltliSrwiS£ I In ell ...derarad-te dtacl,.lln... 
Jan. 22 
SIGN-UP: IJ!D. 01 JANUARY llo. 

McDonnell Douglas Corporation is having an Open House for Engineer­ing and Computer Science Seniors interested in learning more about career opportunities. This is your op­portunity to: 
• 
Talk with recent graduates pres­ently working with McDonnell Douglas Corporation. 

• 
See movies of Fighter & Com­mercial Aircraft, Spacecraft, and Missile Programs. 


• Receive brochures of all pro­grams and career opportunities. 
Refreshments 
We'll be on campus 
Tues., Jan. 22 Morris Inn Shamrock· Room 7:00pm·9:00pm 
/ 
MCDONNELL DOUGL..g..__ 
U.S. Citizenship Required An Equal Opportunity Employer 
allies of his plans during the night, adding he expected Canada, Great Britain and West Germany to go along for sure. 
Appearing on the very day he began his fourth year in the White House, Carter also said. 
The United States is comitted to help protect Pakistan, a nation that borders on Soviet­occupies Afghanistan, "in­volving military force if neces­sary.'' 
The Soviet invasion has added "a new element" to the situa· tion in neighboring Iran, where: 50 Americans have been held hostage since Nov. 4, said Caner. 
"Many responsible officials in 
Iran  now  see  that  this major  
threat  to  Iran's  security  and  
peace  . . .  is  becomin~  para­ 

mount, and that there wlll be an additional effort on their pan to secure the release of the hos­tages and remove the isolation of Iran from the rest of the civilized world.'' 

L__________________________ -------------­
----~--~..---~.-~ 
The Observer Monday, January 21, 1980 -page 5 

Doctors to testify in Pinto trials 

Flags at half-staff 
Burger to pay tribute· to Douglas 



WASHINGTON (AP) -Follow­ing tradition, Chief Justice Warren E. Burger will pay tribute to the late Justice William 0. Douglas as the first order of business when the Supreme Court meets today. 
Douglas, 81, died at 10:09 
A.M. EST Saturday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. He had been suffering from progressive lung and kidney failure. His wife and members of his family and staff were with him, hospital officials said. No cause of death was given. 
President Carter ordered flags 

Reagan, Carter lead McNally ND poll 
This is the first in a series of polls commissioned by The Observer for the 1980 Presi­dential race at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, leading up to the nomination of a candtdate at the Notre Dame Mock Convention to be held in Stepan Center March 5th-8th. 
In tomorrow's Observer, fur­ther results and a more com­plete analysis will be presented by Senior Copy Editor Michael Onufrak, along with Observer coverage of the results of today's voting in the Iowa 
Caucuses. 
Of the following Republican candidates, whom would you nominate for President? 
Percentage ofND!SMC

Candidate: vote: 
Undecided: 23.4 
Ronald Reagan: • 21.5 
Howard Baker: 14.6 
George Bush: 13.8 John Anderson: 11.2 John Connally 9.5 Phil Crane: 3.5 Robert Dole: 1.7 
Ben Ferna,ndez: 
Harold Stassen: 
Of the following Democratic candidates, whom would you nominate for President? 
Percen'tafle ofND!SMC

Candidate: vote: 
Jimmy Carter: 48.8 
Undecided: 22 
Edward Kennedy: 21 at federal institutions to fly at half-staff in honor of Douglas, who had sat on the natton's highest court a record 36 years. 
''Individual freedom in this country had no mightier cham­pion," said the president of Douglas. 
"We mourn the lossof a friend and a colleague," said Burger. 
Funeral services will be held at 11 A.M EST Wednesday at the National Presbyterian church here. Douglas will be buried in Arlington National Cemetery not far from the grave of Supreme Court Justice 
The results are based on 116 interviews with undergraduate and graduate students selected at random from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The inter­views were conducted for The Observer on January 19 and 20 by the McNally Research Group, a private polling organi­zation headed by Ed McNally, holder of a political science degree from Yale and now a student at Notre Dame Law School. 
WINAMAC• INC. (AP)-Doc­tors who examined the bodies of three teen-agers killed in a fiery Pinto car crash are ex­pected to testify this week when the reckless murder trial of Ford Motor Co. resumes. 
But a judge's ruling restricting testimony to events related to the crash itself may severely limit what the jury will hear. 
Prosecutor Michael A. Cosen­tino said medical and auto safety experts will testify before the Pulaski Circuit Court jury. 
The automaker is charged in the deaths of three young women who burned to death when their 1973 Pinto sedan exploded in flames after it was struck from behind by a van on a northern Indiana highway. 
Oltver Wendell Holmes. 
It is traditional that the na­tion's chief justice pays tribute when the court meets the first time after a justice's death, and this time the duty falls to Burger, and ideological rival of Douglas, considered as much a conservative as Douglas was a liberal. 
Douglas retired from the bench in 1975 after a paralyzing stroke. He entered Walter Reed on Christmas Eve. 
In death, he was praised by some past critics as well as by admirers. 
Former President Gerald Ford, who in 1970 as House Republican leader launched an unsuc-cessful effort to have Douglas impeached, said, "The nation has lost an outstanding jurist who had a tremendous impact on our soCiety and our go\lernment.'' 
Justice William J. Brennan Jr., a close friend of Douglas on the court, called him, "The only true genius I have ever known.' 
Sometimes praised as a legal giant and sometimes attacked as a dangerous radical, the outspoken Douglas consistently championed the rights of the First Amendment to the Consti­tution and an individual's right to speak his mind. He also became an articulate spokes­man for environmental protect­
ALL MAJOR SPORTS 
ON 7fT T.V. 

The prosecution contends Ford knew that defects in the Pinto's fuel system design made 
the cars vulnerable to rear-im­pact explosions but did nothing to correct the problem. 
The prosecution plans to lay a legal foundation to show that it was the Pinto's defective fuel system, and not the force of the 
impact, that triggered the ex­plosion. 
Ford attorneys have said they will prove that any subcompact car, and many larger cars, would have exploded under the force of the crash. 
Doctors are expected this week to testify that the impact of the fatal crash was not great 
enough to cause traumatic m­jury to the passengers. 
But so far, Judge Harold Saft:eldt has strictly limited any testimony about the conditions of the victims. 
ROCCOS 
men's and ~omen's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957 



THE OBSERVER 
-
needs advertising salespeople 
-no experience needed 
-liberal commissions 
-unlimited opportunity 
For more information contact Mike Holsinger, assistant ad manager, at 7471 
I 
SpeCial offer! 

The Sunday ·Tribune 
when you orderdaily and Sunday de&very. 
There are ~ts ot good reasons 10 get datly and Sunday hOme delivery oft~ !--~~~-~~;~~~~~~:~:~::----~ 
ChleagolFlbune ~nght~"~~» wer[' 
gtVlllg you a new one I :..::~~~;,';'!~~~~~·~~;:..~~~2 J
I rn~eatrP<ur"oesst·•,•r.~. ~".. i:"!!"t''>'II$C" I 
'rou II get the Stndav TnburiE! free lor 
13 weeks when you 519n u~ lor datly and l" lamel>gtbli''~"""'~~~""'-"'·,Jo"'bPC'auSt' l
I ..:nec~ooe-• I
Suo;iayhome~'j' 
•: 
1am curreott\ ·"~ "'-'"'·suOS.:•·oe• I Turn to lheTnbune and get Sundays tree lamaSunda\·N'"'S"!)SCI~ f _1rseasy DISCOUNT 
I~t'dl..,... l 
CaD: I<,_,,._ l 
r·•, . :"·····_.-,._ J
Pat Glenon­
8981 1....:~~---:~_:·~:~~--:·____________ j 
([l{lraiio[ribunc 
1 1 1 1 
1 1 1 
'1 
1 
, ~ 
1 1 1 
1 
1 
1 1 
1 
1 1 I 
1 
1 
1 

l 1 1 


.; 


The Observer Monday, January 21, 1980-page 6 
The Observer Needs You! 
Layout Positions Available! 
• No experience Necessary • Good chance for advancement 
Sunday, Tuesday, or Thursday night positions 
• Call John at 8661• 
... 




lliste thepride of Canada. Molson. 
·,;_._ 
You'll get a taste of nearly 200 years of brewing heritage every time you open a cool. green bottle of MOLSON GOLDEN.™ North America's oldest brewery got its start back in 1786. John Molson, our founder, wouldn't recognize our modem breweries, but he'd be proud of the good, smooth taste of GOLDEN.TM A taste that says Canada in every refreshing sip. 
BrtwerJ one/ bollfed in Canada,· imported by Martlet Importing Co.. Inc.. Gn!ol Neclt N. Y 
.Anderson backers join on campus 
by Sharla Scannell 
The name John B. Anderson may not ring much ofa bell, but a handful of Notre Dame stu­dents, in league with his fol­lowers, are trying to change that. And they want his name to do better than ring bells, they want it to attract votes. 
I 
Adherents of the Illinois Re­presentative who is seeking the Republican presidential n~Jmi­
1 nation, have only recently u­nited on campus. The group was formed originally to organ­ize an Anderson campaign for the Mock Republican Conven­tion to be held here March 5·8. Chairman Larry Hau, after working on the national cam­paign m Chicago during the Christmas vacation became a serious Anderson supporter. As a result the group at Notre Dame is now working as a branch of the national cam­
paign. Backers of ·Anderson have lately been collecting sig­natures in the South Bend community to get Anderson's name on the primary ballot in this district. Due to inadequate funds, there is no official head­quarters in Indiana. 
In great part, organized groups of s~udents, like the one here, constitute his cam­paign in this state. 
Underfinancing is one of An­derson's major weaknesses. 
He needs substantial endorse­
ments from the media and 
without money, he is less likely 
to obtain these. 

Yet when his meager funds do 
manage to present him to the 
public eye, he is revealed as an 
tmpresstve candidate. He has 
had twenty years experience in 
Washington as House Repre­
sentative from Illinois. Many 
political writers have asserted 
that he is the best man running, 
but has the least chance of 
wtnmng. 

Even his supporters at Notre Dame agree that his chances at the nomination are slim. So why are they betting on this dark horse? Their interest seems to have been sparked by his honesty. Many were im­pressed by his performance at the Republican debates in Des Moines. They admired his candor in endorsing Carter's grain embargo. 
At a committee meeting last Friday night, one student com­mented that he respected him for having ''... the guts to stand up to those farmers." 
Althought the odds are against their candidate, supporters ~f Anderson continue to be opu­Q'listic. "Four years ago Carter . was in nearly the same position in the polls,'' Mau commented. 
Anderson is the most liberal candidate amon~ the Republi­cans. His partisans here see that as a disadvantage to gain­ing the party nomination, but as an advantage against Carter or Kennedy, should he obtain the nomination. Anderson advo­cates at Notre Dame will be watching the primaries closely, for they feel that only if he does well there will he have a chance at the nomination. 
Student gov't 
seeks 

volunteers 

The Notre Dame Student 
Government is looking for vol­
unteers to help with the organi­
zation of the Social Concerns 
Film Series. Volunteers would 
work about three hours per 
week for the next three weeks. 
Contact Dan Cleary at 
232· 7415 or the Student Gov­
ernment offices for more infor­
mation . 

..-------,
I I 
I I

I Buy I 
I 


loBSERVERI 
I I
I Classifieds I 
I I 


'-------.! 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 
-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Edztor-in-chte( ........ Rose':Ilary Mills Sports Editor ................. .Mark Perry represent rhe opimon of a majority of Managing Editor......... .Dtane Wtlson Features Editor .... .Kathleen ConnellyBox Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 rhe Edirorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor.............. Ann Gales Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian opmwns and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ....... .. M. Onufrak 
The ObseTller is an independent their authors Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ....... .Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Edrtor.................... Mark Rust Production Manager ..... John' McGr~·· of the Universiry of Notre Dame dulac and the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager ......... Bob.' and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through lerrers, is SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brassil Controller................. .Kevio • necessarily reflect the polic.ies of the 1 encouraged. Circulation Manager ..... .G-­

' ~ l..,"f. 
.. 

The Observer Monday, January 21, 1980 -page 7 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The enough to use in a bomb. Israel: If the Israelis do not device. Middle East, already a tinder-I Plutonium is a byproduct of already have a bomb, adminis­Iraq: Officials say Iraq has an box of rivalry for land and oil, commercial nuclear reactors, tration officials believe they active program of nuclear re­may become infinitely more but it requires highly sophisti­would quickly put one together. search, but there is little evi­dangerous in the 1980s because cated technology to extract it They do not allow inspection of dence that it has begun a of the proliferation of nuclear from the used fuel. Plutonium, all their nuclear laboratories. determined effort to build a weapons, according to a grow­once extracted, can be readily Israel may be restrained from bomb. "Iraq wants to be ready ing consensus of experts. used in nuclear weapons. testing a bomb by fears that a to build one quickly if other

Experts 
''This is the area of the world One State Department official test would increase its isolation countries in the region get where there is more nuclear estimated that a nation with in the world and spur its one,'' an official said. technology than anywhere out­access to plutonium would need enemies in the Arab world to Libya: The Libyans, one side of the major powers. And only about 200 people -such as develop their own bomb. offical said, "are trying to buy a

see danger 
it is one of the most unstable engineers and machinists-and Pakistan: Officials believe bomb." They have no techno­parts of the world. It's horrify­a rudimentary factory to make a Pakistan has been having some logical base, but lots of oil mg." former British Prime bomb. difficulties in its nuclear pro­money. Libya seeks coopera­
in Mideast Mtnister ] ames Callaghan told The Carter administration gram and may still be three tive agreements which may reporters at a breakfast here hoped to persuade other indus­years away from exploding a give it access to plutonium. recently. trialized nations at least to 
The Carter administration delay the advent of the plutoni­nuclear came to power with a three­um reacto~. But an evaluation pronged strategy to prevent group has completed a draft 
ND-SMC CDlUlcil for Retarded 
nuclear proliferation. But each report which sources say argues initiative has, at l~st partially, strongly that plutonium reac· 
to organize tomorrow night
failed. tors must inevitably come onto

proliferation 
The first initiative was an the scene in large numbers in Mary's students will be held in effort to prevent or delay the the next two decades. The The ND-SMC Council for the 232 Moreau.
advent of plutonium as a com­report is due to be made public Retarded will hold its organiza­All old and especially new
mercial fuel in nuclear reactors. next month. tional meeting for the Spring The present generation of With their non-proliferation semester in the Library Audi­volunteers are encouraged to nuclear reactors uses uranium effort in disarray, U.S. officials torium, tomorrow at 7 p.m. attend. If there are any 
questions or information need­that has been "enriched" bep see these countries as the most On Wednesday at 6 p.m. an
yond irs natural stare to sustain likely Middle East nations to go ed, call Ed at 3479 or Walter at 
organizational meeting for St.
a nuclear reaction, but .not nuclear in the 1980s: 3066. 
Doonesbury 





How to impress your 4ate, 
by Garry Trudea~ 



satisfy your appetite, and save a few bucks 
(all in one night.) 
Treat her-or him-to any one of our nationally-famous specialties listed below in our money-saving coupons. Because, even when the money's a little tight, you deserve the best. 
~ SPAGHETTI DINNER PIZZA DINNER 

-~ 
FOR TWO 

I ~ FORTWO I 
~v

I ~-$4.99 
I
I 
when you present this coupon at any participating South Bend area Pizza HufB' I when you present this coupon at any p~rticipating So~!~ Bend area Pizza Hu!' II restaurant. Enjoy two large spaghetti dinners with meat ~auce and garlic restaurant.. Offer _includes one small t~o-toppmg Thtn n CnspyS or Th1ck_ n bread, and two salads. Beverage not included. Coupon good m-store or carry-Chewy® p1zza wath SuperStyle toppmg, and two salads. Beverage not 10­out. Offer good through January 24. Cash redemption value 1/20 cent. eluded. Good in-store or carry-out. Offer good January 25 through January~ 
t -------.. 
Ca;mp;;lue~ent.­
---..._ 
SANDWICHANDSALAD~ $2 OFF ~e ~ 
I DINNER FOR TWO ~ 1 ~ I I $4.99 ;nut. 1 $} OFF :.U":'.itt ~. 1 
Thin ,n Crispy® or Thick ,n Chewy® when you pre•ent this coupon at an~ participating South Bend area Pizza Hur" I pizza or new Sicilian pan pizza I
I restaurant Offer includes :your chotce of two halves of our btg delc1ous sand-. · . . p· H _,.
wiches and two salads. Beverage not included. Coupon good in-store only. when you pre_sent this coupon at any_ participating 1zza UL-restaurant. Oft ood F b 1 through February 7. Cash redemption value 1120 cent. ~ueverage not mduded. Coupon good m-sr'!re or carry-out. Offer good FebJ
I 
~erg..;ru;. -----...ary~ugh;:~~sh=llon;;l/2;; ­
1738 Lincoln Way, 288·6060 1725 S. Michigan, 287-0167 3624 McKinley Ave., 288·8990 502 N. Michigan, 282-2543 2307 E. Edison, 233-3827 52850 U.S. 31N, 277·2121 5113 W. Western Ave., 234·5155 . . ..,' .. 
-·. ·r·· ,.,, ,-. · It· "·~-~-i·· 
• , .. t ' • : .. ? _ I ~· l , j ." j 'II J } f "l.-\ & I -1.
z' 
f 
c 
,­
/ . 





Features  Monday, January 21, 1980 -page 8  
LETTER FROM SANTIAGO War for Liberation? Nathan Stone is a member ofthe Notre Dame Class of1979. He is currently in Santiago, Chzle, begirming a two year placement as a 1-joly. C,ross Asso~iate. The Holy Cross Associates Program seeks to foster lay mznrstry both zn the United States and abroad. I'm not quite sure what a Holy Cross Associate is; myself and several ot.hers are the first ofa new breed of bird here in Chile to call ourselves by that title. We know it's not rhe Peace Corps, it's not .law sch?ol or a Rotary Schola~ship, and we don't think it's the French Fore1gn Legwn. We know we will be working closely with the Holy Cross community here in S.antia~o. We will soon he starting ro work reaching sc~ool or so~e such servlce,-onented task. For now. what a Holy Cross Associate does IS learn. Dunng my stay at l.1nguagc school in ~exico, .my vis,it to~ town on the outs~irts of ~ima, .Peru, and ITI}' first weeks m Santiago, I ve tned to look at Latin Amenca With an <>pen mind. The vast majority of people here is very poor. Outside ofLima, Peru there is a settlemenr called Canto Grande. There is no electricity, no pavement, and no garhage collection. A truck co~r::s. by ever>: c.ouple of days to fill the water harrels. Th1s sounds pretty pnmtt1ve, and It 1s. And yet, these are not the elements of real poverty. These are merely the lack of luxuries, luxuries we Jake for gramed. Without electricity, running water, paving, and garbage collection. daily living becomes like a camping trip. One.can ad.apt to these . conditions. My ancestors at the turn of the centur>: lived without these luxuries on their farms in Oklahoma and Texas. Yet thelf poverty was not the profound poverty of Canto Grande. In .C:anto .Grande, the ~ouses ~re small, built of scraps ofwood, woven straw, ~aiimg wire'. an~ sometimes bncks. T~e whole family, children, dogs, even chickens and p1gs 1f there are any, sleep m the same room, sharing beds and blankets, again, 1f there are any. Some have a son of indoor outhouse for defecation and urination. The poorer folks use the strf'et or the trash piles. Health care is virtually unavailable, disease and infant mortality run high. . . The worst pan of the poverty of living in Canto Grande is the fnghtent~g hurden of insecurity. Steady work is unheard of. The typical famtly averages ahout one week's work in a month, earning about tive to seven dollars a day for a monthly income of about twenty-five or thirty dollars. This often feeds many children on farf' which varies little from potatoes, noodles, rice, and bread. The brea?winner must get up every mor~ing and search for a job. Many grown men shme shoes, sell newspapers.. ChJC~lets, or shoelaces for the few coins they might profit. In recent years, mflauon has run 80-100 percent per year in these countries, and it is estimated that the buying power of the poor drops by 30 per~ent per year. . . . . , The situation compares with that of the Joad famtly m Stembeck s The Grapes of Wrath. The residents of the pueblos jovenes, that is, the settlements without water, electricity, etc. like Canto Grande, have come to  begins many and varied plots, often develops them extensively and then drops many characters with only a sentence of explanation. The book is unified only by its fictionalized identity--a text of primary and se­condary source readings for Canop­ean students of the colony Shikasta (Earth). Canopus is a system of planets which tries to create harmony among and within the planets by creating balance between and in the indivi­duals and their environments. Puttoira and its criminal planet Shammat, a rival system, feeds on the destruction of that harmony which the Canopeans call SOWF (substance-of-we-feeling). · The "text" focuses on the experi­ences of one emissary (who keeps asking for reassignment) named Jo­hor. A majority of the work, however, is spent detailing the history of the colonization of Shikas­sta by Canopus, in order that theCANOPUS IN ARGOS: _ "students" understand references that Johor makes in his reports. AARCHIVES variety of simulated documents com­Shikasta prise the remainder of the book-­JOurnal excerpts, archivists, notesDoris Lessing and letters. The focus is a very subtle unifier in Knopf $10.95 the book, but is is an effective one because Lessing succeeds in creatingScience Fiction. Sci-fi, as it is often a convincing anthology of simulatedcalled derisively. Space fantasy is mawrials. The most remarkablethe chosen idiom for Doris Lessing's aspect of the book is that <;he is able tonewest boqk, Shikasta, a visionary's write as no less than twelve different insights into the past, present and personalities and in as mar.y s~yles offuture. writing, so that if the differentLessing feels that not only has reports, letters and archivists notesscience fiction been unjustly rele­were read independently of eachgated to the realm of "non-serious" other it would be difficult, if norliterature, but also that space fantasy impossible to deduce that all hadhas been a singularily important issued from one woman's pen.influence on modern fiction. Her r-rw hook, which is tht> first of Lessing's effort, for all the confus­1 <;t>rit>s ~"ntitled CANOPUS IN ing and shifting plots, themes and ARGOS:ARCHIVES is exemplary ofthe '>tyles, is a successful one. The !oltluence. It is, in fact pure .;uuH:e personal, psychological and ~i~toric fiction. There is respectable science documents relating to the VISits to  


I 
~ 
l 
I 
r 
the· city from all pans of the country, looking for work, looking f~r somet~ing a 
little better than what they had. They heard there was work m th.e city, ~o 
giving up what they had in the country they moved to the pueblos ;ovenes m 
search of it. Since there are many workers and few jobs, wages are v.ery low 
and unemployment high. As in The Grapes of Wrath, the desperauon and 
anxiety of the situation robs people of their ~i~nity and their will to c~mtinue,. 
The man of the house, whose role is traditionally that of breadwmner, Js 
continually frustrated by a system in wh~ch hard work r~l_ly,.do<ls nqJ,.pay ~ff. 
He is probably physically weak from childhood malnutnuon and he-becomes 
very unenerget1c from a di~t which is currently v~ry ~oor. He is called lazy 
and shiftless and he soon lives up to the role. H1s will broken, he takes to 
rlrinking and whoring and he often leaves his wife and children altogether, 
unable to face the daily shame of his failure. 
The women are not as easily broken., Like Main The Grapes ofWrath, they 
are strong because "someone has to be." Virtually all the women are 
mothers: There is no such thing as a "career girl" or a "mai~en ~unt." 
Maternal instinct drives them on to put bread in the mouths of thetr children. 
It is a day to day, hour to hour struggle. . . . 
There are many groups which have taken an J~terest .m changmg. the 
situation. Some are political groups. Some have tdeologtes to ~ctualtze. 
Some are working as collective self-interest group~, like la~or umon.s. The 
Catholic Church in Latin America has taken an mterest m changmg the 
situation on moral grounds. 
The Church ... has the nght and duty to announce this Chnstian vision ofthe 
human person to all peoples. The Church _professes that any ~ttack on the 
dignity ofthe human person is at.the same trm.e an atta_ck on the rmage ofGo.d 
Himself Therefore, the evangeltzatlon ofl al6ll Amenca zn the pr_ese_nt and zn 
the future demands of the Church a clear statement of the dtgmty of the 
human person... -. . . . 
The vas/ majon'ty of our brothers and szsters ltve zn worsenzng pover~y and misery. They lack the most elementary matenal goods, zn contrast wzth the ·wealth in the hands ofthe minon'ty, often at the expense of the poverty of many. [The poor) lack a full share in social andpoliticallrfe ... [commttment to the poor) has led the Church in Latin Amen'ca to .denounce the mostpr~found injustices perpetrated by the forces ofoppresston ... The poor kave w~th t~e encouragement ofthe Church, begun to organize, so that they lrve thezr farth 
fully and can claim their nghts. . 
Latin Amencan Brshops Conference 
Puebla, Mexrco 1979 

How are rhese attitudes of the Church reflect~d in the daily. reli~i?us experience of a Latin American. person? Try. readmg the psalms, tmagmt~g you are a poor/erson in a Situation ofoppressiOn. The enemy becomes easter to identify an it is no supernatural boogey man. Try readmg about Moses and the Israelites in slavery in Egypt. The Old Testament term "people of God" has an interesting translation in Spanish, pueblo d_o. Dios. P.ueblo means generically people, but it also serves to.denote the pol.Itt.cal groupmg of people the town or the nieghborhood. In this way, the religious concept of the pe~ple of God takes on a concrete political meaning. Try saying the Our Father, im~gining yours.elf to be hungry.. When you g~t .t~ th.e part ab.out ''give us this day our da1ly bread ~nd deli~er us from evil, ~ally b~ead JS a real problem, and the evil from which one ts praymg to be delivered ts one of 
economic oppression. ' 
--~---­

fiction, just as there is desreputable Shikasta by Emissary Johor may lead "serious" literature beingfroduced. the reader to despair over what Given the clearly classica status of Lessing projects as the inevitable the work of LeGuin, Lewis, Or-well course of events on Earth. She comes and Verne, Lessing believes it unjust down hard on racism and pollution, for the ''pieties of academia'' to nuclear war and unplanned urban hinder the expansion of science communities. If the book does not fiction into the upper echelons of the cause the reader to despair, it will literary world. _ force him to reexamine the values, 
The book is written in a style as trends and infhwnces that we all take clearly innovative as the idea of an for granted and of which we are established and respected author unaware. producing a work of science fiction. This Canopean "text" for students In fact, it is difficult to say that may well be a handbook of survival Shikasta is a novel at all. The book for humankind. has no set chronological order, -K. Connelly 
The theology of liberation is truly in the spirit of 1776, or of the ~rench "liberty, equality, fraternity." The pe?plc;: ofC~nto Gr~nde,. whe~ and tf they come to believe in their own human dtgmty, wtll not stt still whtle the world walks on them. How can anyone who sees such suffering help but sympathize with a liberation movement? 
The Church's movement proposing t~ organize ~he. people .to clai~ .t~eir rights, to instill in rhr::m a ~op~ a~d a baste hup~an ~tgntty of whtch thetr hvmg situation robs them, ts quite stmtlar to the Ctvtl Rights. Movement of the last decade in our own country. The movement here first tnes to get people to get up out of the gutter, sober up, was.h fa~e, throw back ~hould~rs 3:nd be proud. Then it tries to organize and consctenttze the people,. ~nd~ctnnatlng them as to whence the oppression comes. But whereas the C1vtl Rtghts Movement had the Supreme Court to intervene on the side of the underdogs, the movement to liberate the poor in Latin America has no arbitrator. Any success they have will be won by their own fighting. And this fighting could lead to all out terrorism and war. 
Here is the rub. Here is the dilemma. One cannot with clear conscience ignore the sufferin~s of the poor. One.can~ot ~ith c_Jear conscie~ce neglect to do everything posstble to change the sttuauon m whtch t~e poor hye. .Y~t, c~n one take up arms and fight for it? . Is a m~n morally Jusufie~ m ktl.lmg, m committing many times the most hemous cn~e knowt:l t?. ~an t.n the m.terest of a moral/political cause? I once read graffin that satd F~g~tm~ for liberty is like screwing for virginity." Is there t:JOt a moral contr.adJ~tlo!l m a war for liberation? A movement which aims to g1ve a man back h1s d1gmty, but wh1ch in order to do so must make that man a fighter, a killer, defeats its own purpose. By bec~ming like the enemy, that is, by becoming violent, in o~der to defeat the enemy, a man becomes his own wor~t enemy. In the turmotl of revolution, moreover, it's anybody's guess who mi&ht end up on top: A~ter all the bleeding is over, one can't be sure th~t t~ere wtll truly be m?re JUStice, or that the poor will be restored any of their nghts as ~uman bemgs.. yet ~he violence of the status quo is so grave that maybe the. vwlence of ~he !tberauon fight would be the lesser violence, and w~rth the nsk of turrr.ml. . 
Latin America faces a moral dilemma. It IS trapped between the destruct!ve anguish of poverty and the violent option of rev~lution. .It is .in the Lenswn between these two choices that the drama of Lattn Amenca will take place. The script calls for tragedy. Let the play begin. Nathan Stone 

The Observer -Sports Monday, January 21, 1980 -page"V 
Irish women split weekend 
games 
by Mark Hannuksela Sports Writer 

Comebacks were the rule, rather than the exception, this weekend in women's basketball action at the ACC. Friday night, coacti Sharon Petro's Notre Dame te~m took a page out of their male counterparts' songbook, as they rallied from a 
10-point deficit to defeat a stubborn club from St. Am­brose College, 54-52. 
And at one point in the first half of Sunday's action against St. Louis University, the Irish trailed bv 13 points. But Jane Politiski l~d a second half rally which cut the margin to two before the Billikens reasserted themselves and forced Notre Dame to settle for a weekend split, 65:49. That leaves the Irish with an overall record of 7-4 going into tomorrow night's action at Valparaiso. 
The lead changed hands 10 times in the first half of Friday's game before St. Am­brose grabbed a 26-23 halftime lead. 
Matvey led the Irish in both scoring and rebounding, as she collected 18 points and nine boards. Lally, a native of Sharon, Pa., was the only other Irish player in double figures. Height was the difference in yesterday's game with St. Louis. Boasting a starting line-up in which every player was over five feet, eight mches tall, the Billikens jumped out to an early 11·2 lead, and st~etched their margin to 13 points, 35-22, before taking a 35·26 edge into the lockerroom. ''Our problem today was sim­ple," said assistant coach! Bob 
Scott. ''Nobody went to the boards. We had.designed plays to get two people through their zone to the offensive boards, but nobody did it. We missed having Jane (Politiski) inside, but we couldn't afford to send her in there and risk re-injuring her ankle. The other people were supposed to pick up the slack but they didn't." 
Actually, Politiski, the senior co-captain from Richville, Minn., wasn't even expected to play yesterday, and wasn't listed on the rosters handed out to those present. But with 17-and-a-half minutes left in the ballgame, and the Irish still trailing by 12, Petro inserted her 5-11 center into the Notre Dame lineup. 
Almost immediately, Notre 
Dame showed signs of coming 
to life, as Matvey, Politiskj, and 
Tricia McManus all scored to cut the lead in half. Three free throws by Julie Goessling ~pushed the margin back to nine, but two free throws by iJaneJ ergesen, one by Politiski, and a lay-up by Matvey cut the deficit to four, at 44-40. Once again Goessling answered the Irish surge, this time with a 
. 15-footer thatimade it 46-40. Two free throws each by Polit­iski and McManus then brought the Irish as close as they had been since early in the game, 46-44, with 11:02 remaining. What followed could accurate­ly be labeled a disaster. Petro's troops did not score again until the 3:23 mark of the second half. In the meantime, the Billikens ran off 16 consecutive points to seal the Irish fate, and send the women to their fourth defeat of the season. 


....-... 


The.Qbserver -Sports 
Monday, January 21, 1980 -page 10 



I I • I 
a 

Macri's Italian Bakery 
Celebrating it's 1st Anniversary and treats are on us 
Notre Dame 
Cakes
Pastries 

~ 
.....
Enormous uariety of Italian pastries euerJ ~ 
The most talked about cake is We carry i~ all starting from the ordinary 
"i 
Macri's Italian torte. A 5 layer cake 
t::::l 
with your choice of 4 uarieties of
donut to the famous Italian cannoli, but ;§ 
~ 
~ 
cream. Also seruing the best cream donut and roll and we can change it. ).. 
you deserue a change from the ordinary 
white cake at a price you can afford. 
~ 
'Fftee ~ 
~ 
(With any purchase) 

Weefiy &fJel'.Wf& 
c;o· 'f'lee ~• -7:00 -12:0~ 
~lcatfi~ 
-~
ACAJhbee cake daily. ~ 
~ 
Macn''s 
Italian 
Todtag'& &peciae Napoleons
'FtUdtuj'3 wilafe't-00 30 20 
Bakery LaSalle Ave. 

Molarity 

DAVID C/-IAN FROM PlAYBoY I-IERE. WE W#/1 

The Daily Crossword 

1/21/80

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
by Michael Molinelli 
ACROSS  32  Landed  
1 Crusader  33  Domestics  
battle  34  Thai  
site, 1191  language  
5  Phony fight  36  No.2 man  
10  Nobleman  40  Fitting  
14  Impair  41  Blood  
15  Newspapers  carrier  
16  Roentgen's  42  Aware of  
discovery  43  Rhubarbs  
17  Boss's  45  Pop singer  
sidekick  Freddie  
20  Takes back  47  Secondhand  
21  Palmer  48  Spoil  
22  Fight  49  "Bigger­ 
result  breadbox"  
23  Icelandic  52  Small  
poem  handbag  
25  Wireless  57  Food filler  
sets  60  Pollster  
29  Lauded  Roper  

Friday's results 

1119/80 

61 Fencing 26 Hebrew move letter 62 -time 27 Judicial 
(never) assertions 63 Cat call 28 Japanese 64 Express statesman 
scorn 29 Breathes 65 Extinct hard birds 30 Antelope 31 "Divine 
DOWN Comedy" 1 Cupid author 2 Eating 33 Stuck fast 
place 35 Scent 3 Chink 37 Capital of 4 Arab the Bahamas 
chieftain 38 Senator 5 Particles from Kansas 6 One of the 39 Weekday: 
Muses abbr. 7 Hardy girl 44 Arc of 8 Vessel colors 
initials 45 Padre 9 Greek 46 Great Lake 
letter 48 Come 10 Specials together 11 Islands of 49 Pronoun 
Ireland 50 In good 12 Rajah's shape wife 51 Shells 13 Chemical 52 Descartes suffix 53 Secretive 18 Roman .. one statesman 54 Engaged in 
19 Cruelty 55 Leapin'­23 Ms. Jong 56 God of love 24 Pedestal 58 Literary 
section monogram 25 Tabula-59 Firearm 
Aguirre, Demons dump Tigers 
CHICAGO (AP) -Mark Aguirre scored 31 points and Terry Cummings chipped in with 17 points but the top-rank­ed and undefeated DePaul Blue Demons needed three free throws by Clyde Bradshaw in the final seconds to hold off 14th ranked Louisiana State 78-73 in a nationally televised game Sunday. 
The victory was the 15th this season for DePaul, which re­mained the only major unbeat­en college team in the nation. LSU, meanwhile, dropped to 11-4. 
Within a minute of the game's start, Durand Macklin, LSU's leading scorer with a 21.7 average, suffered an ankle in­jury and was forced to leave the game. · 
Terrapins win ; still in ACC lead 
CHAPEL HILL N.C. (AP) ­Albert King poured in 28 points Sunday as Maryland's hot­shooting Terrapins retained possession of first place in the Atlantic Coast Conference bas­ketball race with a 92-86 victory over ninth-ranked North Caro­lina. 
King, Buck Williams, who scored 19 points, and Ernest Graham, who had 17, controlled the offensive boards and shut off the inside lanes to North Carolina. The Terps are now 5-1 in the ACC and 13-2 overall. 
North Carolina fell to 4-3 in the conference and 10-4 overall. 
-
Now serving espresso and cappuccino 5 20 E. LaSalle 
FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUSI
South Bend
caffe which is the coffee· lovers coffee. 
Ph. 282-1010 
r• with any $10 order .,• 
IS I I I • 
-----~ 

~T;:;h:e-;O~bh.se=rv:e:r~--;S~p=o=rt:s~----__;___,._____;..._________---:-::-:---:-___;_-::----::-:-~~-~~~~~---. ~· ~: ....~~. 
1Monday, january 21, ~980-pag~ f{ 
Sports Briefs. ____ 
Teenage boxer dies of bruises 
HUNTINGTON, W.Va. (AP) --Harlan Hoosier 13 of Beauty, Ky., has died in the fourth boxer-related death in' the country. since November,. authorities say. 
Hooster, who fought wuhout protective headgear during a recent Lenore, W.Va., tournament died ofbra10 contusions Friday in a hospital here. ' 
He ~ad ~omplained of a severe headache shortly after he won hts thtrd and final bout]an. 12 during a West Virginia Boxing Commission-sanctioned tournament. 
"He was in pretty bad shape when he got up here," said Ger~ Vanston, the Cabell County, W. Va., medical exa~~?~r. He said the Yo';lth, "had some surgery on the bra10 10 an attempt to relteve pressure. 
Vanston said he was not notified of the death until Saturday because of an oversight. 
Swimmers sink Butler at Rock 
Notre Dame's swimming team easily outdistanced Butler, 65-42, Saturday afternoon at the Rockne pool. The Irish were paced by Betsy Shadley's victories in the one-meter and three-meter diving events. Additionally, Rody McGlaughlin, Greg Bohden and Bob Fink all coasted to individual wins. The win evened the Irish record at 2-2. 
Irish fencers open season 
Coach Mike DeCicco's Notre Dame fencers open their 1980 c~mpaign at 1 p.m. today at the ACC against Clemson. The Insh swordsmen will toss a winning streak of 105 matches on the line against the Atlantic Coast Conference fencing power. 
Foil capt!'lin Andy Bonk, sab_re captain Chris Lyons, and epee captam Thorn Cullum wtll lead the Irish who have captured two national championships in the last ~hree years. 
Wrestlers pin two opponents 
Th~ Notr~ DaJ?e 'Yrestling team upped its season record to 4-8 wu.h tw10 wms 10 a home triangular meet on Saturday. The Insh upended Wabash, 29-9, and trounced Milliken 43-5, in the three-team affair. Five Irish wrestlers wer~ double winners. 
Stauder wins football picks 
Paul S~auder, sports director of WSND and guest prog~o~ncator, cap~~red.the title of the 1979 College Football P~edtctton Compeuuon 10 The Observer. Stauder finished wt~h a mar.k of 119-49, for. 708 accuracy. Craig Chva1, sports wnter, fimshed only one game off the ~ace, with a mark of 118-50 (.702). The other results rank 10 this order: Mark Perry, sports editor, 116-52, .690; Beth Huffman women's sports editor, 1~5-53, .684; Frank LaGrotta, spo~ts writer, 112-56, .667; Bnan Beglane, sports writer, 111-57,.661; Paul Mullaney, assistant sports editor, 110-58, .655; and Michael Ortman, sports writer, 108-60, .643. 
• • . Poulin 
[continued from page 12] Saturday's action, with only one goal being scored in what could 
two outstanding initial saves. . 
be called a period of controlledNotre Dame responded quickly action. The lone score of thewhen Poulin beat Frame with a period came after an !Irish
low wrist shot to the glove side miscue in their own end wasafter being set up by defense­capitalized upon by Gregman ] ohn Cox and fellow Whyte, who beat surprise star­lineman John Higgins. 
ter Bob McNamara with a shotNotre Dame's final tally came from the left circle.
only 59 seconds into the final Colorado added a powerplayperiod when Rothstein and goal seven minutes into theHiggins broke through .the Col­second stanza when the team'sorado defense and found them­leading s~orer, Maksymyk,selves on a two-on-one break. 
notched hts first goal of theHiggins made a nice play by game. The announcement ondeking the defenseman out of . Maksymyk's goal was drownedthe play and feeding a perfect out by the crowd, however, aspass to Rothstein, who tucked Cox responded with a goal ofthe puck in behind Frame. 
his own only 11 seconds later. 
Smith showed much enthusi­asm over the return of Poulin. Brownschidle delighted the "He's one heck of a catalyst,"· crowd even more at the 8:40 said the Irish coach. "It feels mark of the period when his much more comfortable to have slapshot found the twines to 
David back." Overall, Smith note~ the score at two--the soal seemed especially pleased with commg on a well orgamzed 
everyone's play, including goal powerplay. tender Laurion, who looked Aikens grabbed the lead for very impresive in stopping 33 Colorado when he scored on a 
shots. · powerplay goal at 10:31. The first period of Friday's 6-5 Meredith regained the tie for win was very similar to that of . Notre Dame when he poked in a 
' Belles

' ' 
[continued from page 12J 
defense and fast break,"main­"We've been having trouble tains Dallessio. playing a ~ood full game, •' 
Tuesday the Belles will face explains K10g, a native of 
Manchester College in a re­Pittsburgh and center for the match set at North Manchester. 
·Belle squad,as she justified the Earlier in the season Saintslow start. "Lately we've been Mary's shattered Manchesterplaying one half much better by 20 points. "We played them than the other. Saturday we in the Huntington tourney be­knew we could beat DePauw so fore Christmas and the gamewe went out the second half and was pretty close. The scoreput it to them.'' 
wasn't very indicative becauseDallessio, a second year coach we didn't really start pullingfor the Belles, employed a full away until the last five or sixcourt press and 1-3-1 zone to minutes. Some turnovers and atighten the defense. "DePauw couple of quick basketshad a tough time scoring helped,'' remembers Dallessio.
against the press. Ten minutes into the second half we built a "We'll have to keep their tall 30-point lead by conbining our ; girls off the boards and plax rebound after Poulin's back­hand was stopped by Frame, as the Irish converted on their second. straight powerplay op­portumty. 
Colorado fought back with a goal two minutes later as Aikens picked up his sdcond tal!y of the game after again be10g set up by Maksymyk and Reinking. Irish winger Jeff Perry knotted the score with only eight seconds remaining in the period when he poked a shot past the sprawled Frame. 
Notre Dame came out of the dressing room in/rand fashion for the final perio by exploding for a goal only 19 seconds after the opening faceoff. Poulin took the puck at center ice, broke in on Frame by himself and backhanded a pretty shot past the goaltender for Notre Dame's first lead of the game. Meredith added an insurance . goal at 7:08 when he broke down the left side and wristed a hard shot into the cage, with the assist going to goalie Mc­Namara. 
tough defensively like we did aga10st DePauw '' continues Dallessio. 
King, one of Saint Mary's tallest squad members, will have a job containing Man­~hc:ster and closing out the mstde. "We're basically a small team so the key to concentrate on will be rebound­ing," offers King, who missed half .of the first game at Huntmgton due to a . scheduled 
final exam. · 
Following the Manchester contest the Belles will return home and prepare for Thurs­day's home matchup with Purdue Calumet. 
Classifieds 
For rent: Rooms $40.00 mo. rides. Near 233-1329.

Notices 
Female roommate needed in Campus

Preparing for a career in advertising/ 
View Apt. Live Jan free, pay half rentpublic relations? Get great experience remainder of semester. Call Suefor the future as the NAZZ Advertising 

283-3433.

Director! For more information, call 
Mary Ahern at n57. We rent dependable cars from $7.95 a day and 7 cents a mile. Ugly Duckling Rent-a-Car. 921 E. Jefferson Blvd. Mish­awaka, Ind. 255-2323.
Lost&Found 
One vacancy, 4-man apartment Campus View Apartments. Call 2n-1742.

FOUND: A class ring from Xenia H.S.--­
clalm at St. Francis Shop, NO Campus. Books For Sale FOUND: Girl's Timex watch from last Pl1-Structured Programming (used for 1
Wanted 

semester hay ride, call Jim 3206. chapter\ $10.00 
Campus Press needs an ambitious person' LOST: My keys. I desperately need to begin training immediately for produc­them. Reward. Ring includes 1 purple tion manager (a paid position) for the key. Call Andy 234-6353. 1980-81 academic year. Printing experi­~nce helpful but not necessary. Apply 1-5 LOST: Tl's MBA calculator on Monday mperson basement of LaFortune under 
Dec. 17 at 11:00 a.m. lffound, please call .. the deli. ' 
m-5947. 
Anyone Interested in working on John LOST: Car keys on orange and white key Anderson's presidential campaign for the chain. Call Sue Knapp SMC 4554. Mock Convention--Call Larry--1049. 
LOST: Pair of prescription glasses. 
R~ommate wanted to share house. 2 

Brown frames In a beige case. If found, m11es from campus. Excellent neighbor­please call Susan at 7978. hood $125 per month. Call John 233-6573. 
One day a week German tutor needed.

For Rent 
272-7347. 

Multiple vacancies APT 2-A, 835 N. R~mmate wanted: 3-bedroom house. Notre Dame Avenue 232-0099. !82.50 per N1ce neighborhood. $80.00 a month plus person plus utilities. utilities. Call after 5:30 287-4733. 
' Male grad student with apartfll.ent to 2 females live Jan. tree! 2 spacesshare. Call 2n-1318. available at NO Apt. 20. Spacious--only $82 per month. C~ll 7129, 7812, or 7570. 
Ramirez Classical Spanish guitar, like new, perfect jor guitar class. Offers Mick--8212 
Pro-American "Hey Iran!" defiance !-shirts available. $5 delivered. 3 colors 4 sizes. Phone 1866 for details. ' 
For Sale 
Greek Religion books for sale. Call Carol. 3848.. 
tlements of Statistical Inference (also used for only 1chapter) $10.00 Finite Math 104 $6.00 Money & Banking by Ritter & Silber$6.00 Call 8221 from 5:30 to 6:30pm. 
FOR SALE: Technics SA-200 Receiver, 25 watts, .04 THO. Purchased right before school. $140. Call 8221. 
Tickets 
Need student and GA tlx for DePaul 8-ball game. Paul 3121. 
Need 1 Davidson ticket, 3 or more for 
N.C. State. Call Tom 7666 or 289-6543. 
Need GA tlx to any home 8-ball game. Paul3121. 
Help! Desperately need DePaul GA's. Carol 2n-1365. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the Issue in which the ad Is run. The Oblemr office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either In person or through the mail. 
To the three nurdlings in 403 Zahm, 
Just what did you think I was gonna do to the vulnerable one??? Such minds!! 
Personals 
Jim, Thanks for the champagne treat. Wait until you see what we bring tonight! 
M2, (MC)2, c&L 
JB, Happy 21st!!! Mikey 
Louise, If you got me to the station on time then I owe you a big one and I promise to be nice to you on your Birthday (really nice!). If you didn't get me there on time...well, It'll be a memorable day. 
ATTN: Rock Tower Jocks! Meeting tonight at 7:00 in Rm. 361 O'Shag. Be there! 
Mouth of the South 
Look out ND-SMC YOCIUS THE ATRO­CIOUS is back to haunt you. 
Attention Jim Jenlsta: Jim, Is there any hope of picking up where we left off? . 
-The Harlequin 
Jimmy, Are you ever going to help us finish our !lgsaw puzzle1 
-Nicky and KMW2'  
JJ, How  come  you  haven't  called  since  
December?  
The wlldwoman  
Jim,  

Can the five of us be added to your vast Yo-Yo collection? 
The Babes In 47 HC 
Such fears! ! ! ! 
While on the men in Keenan: To the tall blonde "inney" with THREE snap shirts: Les gens sensibles ne meurent jamais, ils ne perdent que les genoux magnetiques. 
Dave Madigan, Happy 21st birthday, you Silly Goose!!! Quaff down a few for me. 
Love, YOur Boilermaker 

Bob--So glad you· could join me in the legal world. Happy 21st! Love, Sue. 
Sandy Carpenter, Happy 20th!! Hope you have many more. 
Love from your fellow 3rd 
floor McCandessltes. 

To the girl on the South Shore train on Dec. 20 who played with my autorace game: Where are you? Call1405. 
Speed Racer 

BCO, I loved 8 a.m. Thermo with you last semester. Can we do It again? 

Monday, January 21, 1980 -page 12
SRorts 
Bradshaw fires Steelers to Super Bowl championship 
byHALB,OCK the touchdown that put Pitts­short of the single-game record AP Sports Wn'ter burgh in front 24-19. of 318 he established last year, 
PASADENA. Calif. (AP) -Now Vince Ferragamo, the when Pittsburgh defeated Dal­Tt-rry Bradshaw shattered a gallant young quarterback of las 35-31. pair of Super Bowl passing the Rams, who was starting The performance earned records, throwing touchdown only his eighth professional Bradshaw the game's Most bombs to Lynn Swann and John game, tried to bring his team Valuable Player Award for the Srallworrh. as the Pittsburgh back. Passes of 24 yards to second consecutive year, mak­Steelers overcame upset-mind­Preston Dennard and 15 to Billy ing him only the second man in 
ed Los Angeles with a come­Waddy had the Rams on the Super Bowl history to win the from-behind 31-19 victory in the move at the Pittsburgh 32 as honor a second time. Bart Starr National Football League the capacity Rose Bowl crowd of of Green Bay was voted MVP 
championship game Sunday. 103,985 roared in excitement. honors in each of the first two Prt:ssured inro three intercep­But the bubble burst for the Super Bowls. tions by the fired-up Rams, youngster, who inherited the 
The touchdown catches by
Bradshaw nevertheless stayed starting job in a sea of mid­
Swann and Stallworth were the 
cool and found the seams in the season injuries, on the next third for each of the two Los Angeles secondary. He hit play. He pressed his luck, brilliant Steelers receivers in 
Swann with a 47-vard strike and trying for one more pass, and it 
his career. That set still 
teamed with Stallworth on a was one too many. another Super Bowl mark. 75-rankr that produced the Middle linebacker Jack Lam­
For three periods, this game ­
w·.nning margin in the fourth bert intercepted for the Steelers 
one of the most exciting in the 
quarter as the Steelers won an and Bradshaw went back to 
history of the contest-belonged
unprecedented fourth Super work. 
to the underdog Rams, a lame­
Bowl crown. Again he launched a long pass 
duck team that was often booed 
Derided as 11-point under­for Stallworth, who gathered in 
through the season and came
dogs, Los Angeles played inspir­the 4 5-yard pitch, carrying Pit­
into this final game as a distinct
ed football and led 19-17 as the tsburgh to the Los Angeles 23. 
longshot against the awesome
fourth quarter began. What's 1t was Stallworth's third catch Steelers. 
more, by then Bradshaw was of the· day and pushed his operating without Swann, who yardage total to 121. was knocked out on a crushing A pass interference call Fourth straight hit by cornerback Pat Thomas against Thomas in the end zone in the third period. followed, and with the ball on 
But the veteran Pittsburgh the 1-yard line, Franco Harris quarterback would not be deni­barrelled in for his second 
Irish bruise UCLA at Pauley
ed. On the Steelers' first touchdown of the game, wrap­possession of the final quarter, ping up the steeler victory. LOS ANGELES (AP)--Notre Irish to an 80-73 victory over late in the first half to take a 
he faced a third-and-8 at his Bradshaw's two touchdown 
Dame won a game at its home UCLA in their nationally-tele­39·35lead. A jump shot by Kiki 
own 27-yard line. passes gave him nine for his away from home Saturday, vised game on the Bruins' court. 
Vandeweghe, who led the host The Steelers sent Stallworth Super Bowl career, one better which is saying something be­The triumph was the fourth Bruins with 22 points, made it on a fly pattern down the than the mark held by Roger cause visiting basketball teams in a row for Notre Dame at 39-37 at halftime.
middle of the field and Brad­Staubach of Dallas. He finished hardly ever win at Pauley Pauley, where UCLA now has a Neither team had led by more shaw led his man perfectly. with 309 yards for the game, Pavilion. 
225-10 record in the 15-year than six points before the IrishThe fleet wide receiver simply pushing his career total on "Four in a row, we like it history of the arena. explosion early in the secondoutsprinted cornerback Thomas these extravaganzas to 932 ­here," shouted junior forward After being held scoreless in half. Tripucka and Bill Hanzlik
and caught the ball easily, another record. Kelly Tripucka moments after the first half, Tripucka had 17 had four points each in thedashing into the end zone with Bradshaw finished just 9 yards he had sparked the Fighting points following the intermis­surge, as Notre Dame went sion in helping Notre Dame 
~head, 59-48, with 10:30 remain­establish a comfortable lead mg.
Hockey sweep and then hold off the onrushing UCLA battled back and drew 
Bruins. 
to within three points at 65-62 "Kelly was due to break out on Michael Holton's driving
Poulin leads Irish past CC 
of it,'' said Notre Dame coach layin with 3:55 to go, but Holton Digger Phelps. "I always stay charged into Tripucka afterby Mike Olenik Colorado College netminder­arownschidle put Notre Dame with my best players. 
making the basket and the Irish Sports Wn'ter Tom Frame's hex over the Irish into the lead for good at 5:38 "Anytime you play in Pauley, forward sank two free throws to 
dido' t last long into the second when his low slapshot from the you play against tradition. It's 
make it 67-62. 
A rejuvenated Notre Dame period, however, as Poulin lit top of the circle found its way like the Yankees and their A free throw by Vandeweghehockey team swepr past Colo­the lamp after only 45 seconds, between Frame's pads. The pinstripes. Anytime you win shortly afterward made it arado College this weekend at when he threaded through the goal, set up by Meredith, was here, it's a great performance." 
four-point game, but Notrethe ACC, giving the Irish an Colorado defense and wnsted a the only powerplay goal on the UCLA coach Larry Brown Dame scored the next five8-8 record in the Western shot into the upper right corner night for either team, a statistic was, not surprisingly, disap­points to wrap up the victory.
Collegiate Hockey Association of the cage. which would haunt Colorado pointed after the game. 
Both teams ·shot well fromwhile leaying Colorado at 10-9 When Jeff Brownschidle was throughout the remainder of "I have no excuses, we the floor, Notre Dame hitting 57-l. Bolstered by the recurn of called for holding at 1:29 and the game. played hard and I thought we percent its goal
sophomore standout Dave Pou­Don Lucia was whistled off the The Irish took a 3-1 lead at showed a lot of poise,'' said of field at­
tempts and UCLA 56.7 percentlin. Notre Dame seemed to ice for high sticking a minute 12:36 when Bill Rothstein sho­Brown. "We made our runs at of its floor shots. The Bruinsskate out of its shell in its first 
later, the Irish had dug them­veled a pretty pass to Poulin, them, but made critical mis­
. actually made two more fieldhome series sweep this season. takes at the most inopportune
selves into a hole from which who promptly slid the puck past ·goals than the Irish, but theWith the Irish relarively heal­most teams find it difficult to a poorly positioned Frame. times. Then again, they picked winners were 24 of 31 from thethy for rhe firsr time in three .escape. The Irish penalty-kill­Colorado struck back less than up a lot of loose balls and long free throw line, compared to 13months, coach Lefry Smith in~ duo of Meredith and Tom three minutes later when Doug rebounds and put them back in. 
of 22 for the losers.
seemed very pleased with the M1chalek had different ideas, Lidster rammed home a re­"I really feel for both the kids team's performance. His com­however, as they kept the puck bound after Laurion had made and the people out here --I It was the second straight 
ment after game game that UCLA has struggled
Saturday's in Colorado's zone for most of know they're not used to this 
from the free throw line. Thethat "lr's the besr rhree periods the penalty. [continued on page 11] (losing). I know that as the head 
that we've put together for a coach, I'm responsible for Bruins were just eight of 20 in a while.'' was echoed strongly in what's goin~ on out there. Our 78-76 loss to Arizona State last Thursday night. 
the Notre Dame locker room, kids are trytng hard, but they e-;pecially by Irish captain, have a tendency to be impatient Rich Branning made eight of
Belles beat visiting DePauw
Greg Meredith. "We played on offense, and agatnst a his nine field goal attempts and really-solid, and we didn't make stacked defef).Se, you have to be Tracy Jackson was seven of 12 the mental mistakes.'' hy Beth Huffman Becky Ragsdale lead the Bears patient." for Notre Dame. Branning, the Playing before the season's Women's Sports Editor with 18 in the losing effort. Tripucka, who also had seven leading Irish scorer, was named largesr crowd (3,965) at the The first half of play was of his game-high 10 rebounds in the game's most valuable play­

er.
ACC on Saturday night, Poulin Saint Mary's managed to saturated with turnovers and the second half, ended any netted a hat trick and assisted stage a second half rally to missed buckets in an offensive 1 UCLA hopes by scoring a· Vandeweghe, who played all on another score to lead the soundly tromp the Bears of style Saint Mary's coach Jerry three-point play with 1:15 re­40 minutes and led UCLA in Irish in its 5-3 triumph. In an DePauw, 67-50, in home action Dallessio describes as "slug-maining to give Notre Dame a rebounding with seven, hit nine evenly-played and tight-check­on Saturday. The Belles' gish." The two teams ex-75-65 lead. of his 16 floor shots. ing first period, the third-place balanced attack was paced by changed baskets sparsely, more Notre Dame took an early Notre Dame outrebounded Tigers drew initial blood at the freshman Ann Armstrong who often exchanging possession 11-5 lead, but the Bruins scored UCLA, 31-25. The Bruins cut 
4:44 mark when Dale Maksy­tallied 14 points along with through turnovers, leaving the 18 of the game's next 24 points down on their turnovers, which myk, from Greg Hampson, Tracee Hargreaves and halftime score at 34-28, Saint to take a 25-19 advantage. had been a problem. They lifted a shot over Irish goalie Maureen King contributing 12 Mary's. The Irish went ahead to stay committed 14 to 16 for the 
[continued on page II] by scoring six straight points Irish.
Dave Laurion 's shoulder. and 10 points respectively. 






