
Russian gas , , .see page 8 


VOL. XIV, N0.~-67 1UESDAY, JANUARY 22, 1980
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Ford attempts to discredit witness in local ,Pinto trial 
by Zenon Bzdzinski 
moved into its third day of Jury iiWestigating such charges 
testimony. Judge Harold R. decided not to hand down in Winamac, ln. Robert Duggar, Staffeldt had a recess in the indictment. 23, told the jury in the Ford morning to decide a motion by On cross examination Duggar Pinto trial here yesterday after­the prosecution that would have sheepishly admitted to Neal noon that his chevy van rear­limited the defense's cross that he had a poor driving ended the Ford Pinto in front of examination of Duggar. record and that he had smoked him as he looked up from Because of an earlier motion to marijuana for the two years reaching for a cigatette on the exclude evidence relating to the preceding the accident. Convic­van's floor. Since his attention medical cause of death, the tion by conviction, Neal drove was momentarily diverted, he ) udge forbade\ any testimony the point home to the jury about was unable to avoid the Pinto, explicitly descrioing the "grue­Duggar's driving record, forc­then just less than 10 feet in some" scene. In the new rul­ing the witness to admit, one front of him, he testified. The ing, also favoring the aefense, after the other, to five traffic trial, now in its third day, is he held that the defense could convictions, including s~;>eed­being held in this central India­introduce evidence of Duggar's ing, failure to yield, runmng a na town 65 miles from campus. driving record, as long as such stop sign, suspension of license 
Three girls died as a result of evidence was not to discredit and ~iving while under sus­the gas tank explosion. Two Duggar, but to show the ''scope pensiOn. were burned inside the car, and of the deal" he made wtth . Neal then got Duggar to admit 
the other -partially thrown Cosentino. that at the speed he was from the vehicle -died some The "deal," as it was referred travelling, an estimated SO eight hours later. The accident to by defense attorney James F. mph, he only would have had a occurred during the early even­Neal, a former Watergate pro­fraction of a second to judge the ing of August 10, 1978. secutor, was the agreement by speed of the Pinto. Duggar had 1 

DDn F. Neil, a former Watergate prosecutor and the defense The Ford Motor Company has recommend
, Consentino not to earlier told Cosentino that the 

attorney for Ford, cross-examined prosecution's witnesses been charged with three counts jail time in his prosecution of . Pinto had been going about 
yesterday [Photo by Zenon lBidinskzl . of reckless homicide as a result Duggar for the amphetamines 15-20 mph, but Neal wants to 1 of the incident and is on trial in found in his van after the 1prove to the jury that the speed 1 the first criminal action of its accident. A new lab report, 'differential between the tvio 
kind against a U.S. corporation. however, has showo the am­Ivehicles was much more than

Carter, Bush claim big 1
Duggar concurred with the phetamines to have been only 30 mph. three eyewitnesses· before him, caffeine tablets. 1, Finally, Duggar confirmed the 1 that the 1973 Pinto burst into According to Cosentino, Dug­accident report which found flames almost immediately. Vi­gar was not indicted on any 'Duggar in possession of five
victories in Iowa caucus 
sibly shaken during his descrip­charge relating to the accident, grams ofmarijuana and two full tion, he stated, "Even before I such as reckless homicide, be­

l
[conttnued on page 6.)

DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) -nough to mark him the prime · could think the whole car was cause the Elkhart County_Grand President Carter rook command challenger to the former Cali­on fire; the whole car was in Iqwa last night, surging past fornia governor in contests to burmng." He added that he Sen. Edward M. Kennedy in come. smelled gas at the same time the first contest of their battle Democratic returns gave Car­the Pmto caught fire. 
Local poll adds meaning 

for t~e Democratic presidential ter a landslide lead. CBS and Responding to questions from · 
I
nommanon. NBC both said the president Elkhart Countv Prosecutor Mi­In Republican competition, would best Kennedy bv a chael Cosenti~o. Duggar de­to Iowa caucus results 
1

former United Nations Ambas­margm of two-ro-one. scribed his actions as he was ' 
1 

sador George Bush and Ronald That kind of drubbing would forced to watch the three teen­Reagan, the pollsters' favorite, be a serious setback to a age girls suffer fatal burns. "I by Michael Onufrak ,I were virtually tied and leading challenger who once led the wanted to help, he said, but Semor Copy Editor I the GOP field. president m public opinion then added, "I fell to my knees. 1 
That made it a two-man race, raungs. I froze." The official process by which Americans choose their 
~ 

which was just what Bush Carter, expressing apprecia­It was not until the middle of President began last night with Democratic and Republican wanted. He was bidding for an tion to Iowa Democrats, said the afternoon that Duggar took party caucuses in the state of Iowa. The unofficial process -~ upset, but said that a near miss· the stand as the seventh prose­the popularity polls, media blitz, and campaign themselves­,
[continued on page 3. J

against Reagan would be e-cution witness, when the trial ofcourse, began months ago. Here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, the Presidential race began over the weekend with a poll commissioned by The Observer and administered by the 
In quest for peace McNally Research group. That poll showed President Jimmy Carter in the lead among Democrats, while the largest group of Republicans were still undecided. 
At this stage of the race, however, these statistics merely reflect who has been the quickest out of the gate. A more telling statistic, also illumined in the M~;NalJy poll, a statistic which might better indicate who will be the nominees come 

Irish leader asks for U.S. support 
by Tom Koegel ernment to bring about a settle­The negative feeling of the convention time, is that of condidate recognition. This
StaffReporter ment. Catholic minority in Northern statistic is most important in today' s closely scrutinized
"In 1920 and 1921, American Ireland and the Republic to­Dr. Garret Fitzgerald, leader pressure helped push an agree­wards the effect of the British 
Election '80...The Campus View

of the OJ;>position party in the ment which led to the formation involvement in Northern Ire­Irish par!Jament, the Fine Gael, of the Republic of Ireland,'' land has been a major problem, called in a speech Monday Fitzgerald said. Even with the according to Fitzgerald. He election process because of the media's coverage of the Iowa night for America to help in an stepped-up violence since 1969, called the willingness of Brit-caucuses and the upcoming New Hampshire ~;>rimaries. In effort to end the violence in Fitzgerald sees ''no public _pus~ ain's opposition party to deal both ofthese cont<!sts the amount of people parucipating and Northern Ireland. Fitzgerald on the government for acuon. with the Irish Republican Army the time a candidate has to campaign allow for even a spoke to a large Library Audit­Fitzgerald observes a wide­."A betrayal of hospitality and relatively unknown candidate to make a big enough orium crowd on "America's spread international misunder­an act of reachery behind our impression to win. In other words, ifan unknown can win or responsibility in Northern Ire­standing of the situation in backs." at least make a good showing in one of these smaller land." Northern Ireland as contribut­Fitzgerald emphasized, how-contests, with the intense media coverage being given these 
Fitz~erald praised the Carter ing to the lack of meaningful · ever, that any withdrawal of races, the candidate's victory or good showing will appear admimstration' s offer of aid to effort towards solution of the British troops could lead to. "an much ~reater than it actually is -futther increasing his Northern Ireland should some problem. He points out that the armed takeover by the Loyalist recogmtion by the p,ublic. ' form of government be reach­situation in Northern Ireland is Protestants,'' who are in the The dassic example of this political phenomenon, ofcourse, ed, and called for America to more than simply a stru~gle left majority in Northern Ireland. is Jimmy Carter. Before the 1976 Iowa caucuses and New play its "crucial card" of over from the "restdue of 
[continued on page 4.l . .. . . . . . . . .......-. . . . . ...... [fontinued1on. P.fJKe 3.. l 
\ ' . .. ' . . .....'·"·'·"·'·'··--..-................_ ......;.._,...,,..~~ ...........t \ ''.. .• .. • • .. . ... ~, tr .. • ••""•;41: .-!~""..--·.-..-·-­
mfluence with the British gov-colonization.'' 

-. 

" . 
::,'+' 
~ ..... ~·""· ..... . "*



News in brief 
Tuesday, January 22, 1980-page 2 
Passengers come down highi after extortion threat 
COLORADO SPRINGS 1 Colo. (AP) -A box of fake dynamite was found ahoard a United Airlines DC-8 diverted here last night after an extortionist said there was a bomb on board, law enforcement officials said. No suspects were in custody, said Jack Egnor, special agent in charge of the Denver FBI office, but after preliminary interviews with passengers ar.d crew menber~, there were some "promising possibilities." When bomb experts from Fort Carson examined the contents ot the cigar-box size container, found in a rear lavatory of the 
plane, tht>y found only wooden dowels covered with wrappmg paper from realdynamitet, said Col. Earl Burley, l'hi<'f information officer for the nearby Army base. The -;ttrks were wired to a real timmg device and batteries, Burlc·y said. United spokesman lrv Cuevas said the caller dC"rnanded '·a large sum of money'' and warned that the purporred bomb would detonatt' if the plane dropped ro an altiiWk below 5.000 feet. The plane was diverted to Colorad0 Spnngs Muructpal Atrport because it is the highest airport ir ilw lin11ed State·-; ar 6,172 feet, said Don Canoalte, a Unitecl -.;pokC'srnan from the airl!ne's regional office in Denver. 
Canada expells Russians 

for espionage activity 
State of Union Address focuses in on inflation 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Carter, outlining a modest array of new initiatives for the election-year Congress, assert­ed yesterday that "restraining inflation remains my highest domestic prionty. '' 
In a 75-page written State of 
the Union messa~e, Carter also 
pointed to Soviet rmervention 111 
Afghanistan as posrng a threat 
"to the entire subcontinent of 
Asia" and declared: 

'We must pay whatever price 
is required to remaw the 
strongest nauon in the world." 
While decrymg the continued holding of U.S. hostages in Iran. Carter said his govern­ment would welcome ''a new and mutually beneficial rela­tionship" with Iran once the prisoners are freed. 
''We have no basic quarrel with the nation, the revolution or the people of lran," Carter said in what amounted to an oblique suggestion that the two countries make a fresh start in assessing their relations. 
The president, who will em­phasize Soviet-American rela­tions in a shorter State of the Union address he will personal­ly deliver to Congress tomorrow night, reiterated his support for eventual ratification of the Stra­tegic Arms Limitation Treaty with the Soviets, calling it ''the single most important bilateral accord of the decade." 
The fate of the SALT II treaty has been in doubt since the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan, which led Carter to embar~o grain shipments to the Russmns and halt sales of high-technology equipment. 
In the realm of domestic 
policy, Carter promised a "re­
sponsible, restraintd bud~et" 
and said he would "be limning 
my major new proposals to a 
criucal few," in part because 
Congress plans a foreshortened 
election year session. 
But the president suggested 
that action on his new initia­
tives, coupled with enactment 
of past proposals, "can help" to 
ensure stable prices and econo­
mic growth, a return to energy 
security, an efficient, respons­
ive government ... '' 
Terming intlarion "our most 
serious economic problem," 
the president said he saw 
"hope for a gradual reduction 
in the inflation rate'' through 
public and private restraint and 
longer-term efforts to deal with 
the underlying causes 
"Inflatton will slow this 
year," he said. "In 1981 it 
whould be even lower. 
The inflation rate for 1979 
has been in the range of 13 
percent. 
Carter said he is not propos­
ing a tax cut now because "our 
top priority must be reduction 
of the deficit." A major Carter 
campaign promise had been to 
balance the federal budget by 
1981. 
While the president did not 
propose a tax cut, an admini­
stration official told reporters 
that a tax reduction might be 
proposed later if there is a 
serious recession this year. 

In his message, Carter said that although his own econo· mists are predicting a recession this year, the economy has been showing more strength than ·previously predicted. "Fore­casts of impending recession may therefore prove to be as 
which borders Afghanistan, 
should be ''the first order of 
busmess" before Congress, 
Carter listed five domestic leg­
islatrve initiatives: 
-A new program to educate 
and train disadvantaged young 
people so they can hold mean­
ingful Jobs. 
The president previously has 
announced that he will launch a 
$5 biliron program in the 1981 
fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1, 
to fight illiteracy among jobless 
youth. He had earlier said this 
program would be aimed at 
providing 3 million poor youths 
with the education to enable 
them to hold joh~:. 
-A renewal of general reve­
nue sharing. 
-Reorganization of the Nucle­ar Regulatory Commission and inplementation of "our nation's first comprehensive nuclear waste program.'' 
-Prompt approval of a stand­
by gasoline rationing plan. 
-A program to encourage conversion of oil-burning utili­ties to coal and other fuels. It was understood this would be a 10 year program involving $12 billion in grant:; and loans to utilities to help them make the transition to alternate fuels. 
A high-ranking government· official, who asked that he not be identified, said the presi­dent's program to convert po­wer ptants to coal should save as much as a million barrels of oil per day by the end of the 1980s. 
This official said there was serious consideration given to seekmg a new gasoline tax of as much as 50 cents per gallon, but that proposal was rejew::d because gasoline consumption 

orrAW A (APJ . Canada has ordered the expulsion of two Soviet Embassy military attaches and an embassr chaufferr fiH· espionage activity, Foreign Mini..aer Flora McDonals announced yesterday She said the trio had obtained clas~ified material from an American citizen, paying him for the int{>rmarion. The material and the money were <'Xl·hanged in Ottawa, she said. Further details on the identity of the American and the information involved were nor immediately revealed. Canadians favor liberals over Conservatives in poll TORONTO (AP) · Most C:anadrans favor former Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau's Liberals over incumbent .Joe Clark's Conservatives in next month's parliamentary election, according to a poll taken by the CTV television network. The survey. released Sunday, showed 57 percem of those questioned said the Liberals would win. The Conservatives got 23 percent and Ed Broadbent's New lkmocratic Parry rece1ved 16 percent, vvhile other factions got four percent. Weather Snowy, windy and cold today with steady or falling temperatures. A 60 perce~t chance f?r snow roday, dropping to a 30 percent chance tomght. Low tn the low to mid teens. Sunny but cold tomorrow. High i,... the low 20s.  
CamP-_us_----6  
(.; p.m ART SHO\\'. untversity of illinois art works, NOKI'I 1\VE~T CORNER OF OLD FIELDHOUSE .\: .Hl p.m.. 1\11 NJ.COURSE, introduction ro statistical · n11nputing. 11 'i(TI\IB LHl p.m .. I.FCTURE, "language and hisrory in ireland: 1-)0-IH'iO". lJ\ dr.. garret fnzg.erald, 108 O'SHAG -p 1~1.. T.\I.K with lefty smith,, HOWARD HALL CHAPEL -:\0 p.m .. 1\tEFTING. neighborhood srudy help program, ARCHITH:TURE AUDITORIUM -: Hl p.m .. LECTURE. the liberrarian party and the nation, lw dr. l'dward facey. RM. 122 HAYES-HEALY 7:50p.m.. MEETING. faculty senate, .RM. 20i C.C.E. i:.'O p.m.. MEETiNG, nd-smc council for the retarded, LIB. AUD. 7:50p.m., LECTURE, "ireland by the year 2000: a political analysis" by dr. garrett fitzgerald, GALVIN AUD.  

'Voyage of the Titanic" Night Hdttor: Ryan ''Captain Bligh" Ver Berkmoes Asst. Night Editor: Cindy "Icebergs" Kliros, Bill "Hi Sue'' Keenan Copy Editor: Tom Jackman Layout Staff: Michelle ''Life­boats" Gilmore, Dan "Sig-. nal Flare'' McGrath News Editor: Mark "Sparks" Rust Editorial Layout: Ann "Stor­my'' Gales · Sports Layout: Beth ''Un­sinkable" Huffman Sports Copy Editor: Mike "Stoker" Ortman "Women and Children First" Typists: Ka~e Huffman, Ma­ry Beth Budd, George Biron, Amy Peczkowski EMT: Paul ''Nearer to God than Thee" Selavko Proofreader: Marxellen "Wet Rats" Bradley ND Day Editor: M.B. Moran Ad Design: Midshipman Mike Holsinger Photographer: Doug "Flet­cher'' Christian Guest Appearances: Sal, Pa­nama, Rose, Frank, Mark,  wrong as previous ones," the has dropped and further price president said. increases are expected to force While. saying that military motorists to reduce their driv­and economtc aid for Pakistan, ing still more. 1980 NOTRE DAME MOCK CONVENTION presents Benjamin Fernandez Republican Presidential Candidate He will make a speech on Thurs., Jan. 24 at 4: 15 in the Library Auditorium. Free of charge  
SAINT MARY'S SPEAKERS' SERIES is sponsering a lecture by JOHN ARISTOTLE PHILLIPS well known opponent of Nuclear Power • and author of wednesday Jan. 2~ 8:00pm  
·The Observer IUSPS 51!11 !12111 Is published Monday through Flidly II· cept during exam and vacatiln perilda. The Observer ·Is publlsllld by 1111 .students .of Notre 011111 Mil Slillt ' MI~IIIIQI. Sublcriptilla lillY Ill pu tor ua '* Yilt 1111 ,., 
lllllllterlfrem The Observer. !t.O. 1111 0. Nitre b11111, llldillll 415Ci&. S.-1 elias 1111tagt paid, Mttrt 011111, Ill­diana 48551. · The OtlseM!' Is 1 ....-II Ill ~tid. Prla. All ,......... riglltllrl riiiAid.  CARROLL HALL-SAINT MARY~S FREE ADMISSION .  

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------· ·~ ~ 
The Observer 
Reagan's overall support here, at 21.5 percent, is only half of what his nationwide percentage is, possibly an indication that students here are much less conservative than the nation as a whole. 
Bush is widely seen as a more moderate, thoughtful man with great appeal to intellectuals, traits which might limit his candidacy nationally but which are probably an advantage here. 
The other surJ?rise in the Republican race IS the strong Democratic and Independent support for John Anderson of Illmois. Although he has vir­tually no support among his own party here, Anderson leads other Republicans among De­mocratic students by nearly 2: 1, and along with Reagan and Baker shows significant support among the Independents. (For­mer Governor John Connally of Texas, himself a former Demo­crat, also has substantial sup­port from the other party, but not a single Independent said that they would vote for him). Normally, Democratic support for a Republican candidate would mean very little at a 
G.O.P. Convention, but since the Notre Dame Convention is open to all student delegates, many Democrats will have a voice in the final voting. Mr. Anderson, widely considered to be the most iiberal of the declared Republicans and therefore more acceptable to most Democrats, might well be the prime beneficiary of their participation. Mr. Anderson commands 11 percent of the overall vote here, although nationally he is barely known and is down near 1 percent of the vote. 
In the Democratic race, crisis­ridden President Carter has the support of a full half of the student body and holds a 2:1 lead over Senator Edward Ken­nedy, surprising in view of the character of Notre Dame and the Kennedy family as Ameri­ca's most prominent Irish Ca­tholics. Among Republican vo­ters, whose choices will be key in the proposed Democratic Straw Vote to be held at the Convention, the President holds a dominating 64 percent of the vote. 
However, among Democrats Carter holds only a slight lead of 13 points, with Kennedy's holding of more than a third of the present vote. 
Hope for Kennedy's suppor­ters here lies with the largely undecided Independent voters 1 and those students bound for the Convention, who are some­what less favorably to the President. 
.-;.;... ~:<·. ,·;t->·; ~;.--' ,•• .r;: 
• 


[continued from page 1.] 
UNI 

last night that he found their caucus votes "parti('ularly1wei­


FEBRUAR'.' 12..24 ~-· be 
('Ome in these difficult times." 
Alvt:red to

The Iowa caucuses, where 

DEADLINE EXTt:NDED FOR RElURNS
Carter won apparent victory, Student 
were the launching pad for his ·FRI. JANUARY 25 12:00 m. 
successful, out-of-nowhere pre­Activities 
sidential campaign in 1976. In a written statement releas­ed at •he White Hose, Carter If you have not received the we~kend D~ck_et it_mav be picked u_p
con~ratulated his chief Demo­
cratic rival, Sen. Edward M. _this week in Student Activities Ctfice ,Lafortune. any questions Kennedy, whose supporters, 
call: JIM RIEDMAN 1023 BRIAN CLINGEN 1172­[contznued on page 5.] 
H 1321 · 
. ­
-.r •• '· ·' ·.:•.t~ .-·•• ·J."Y. ~~!: .• ·.·-~ ;•., ..1 ...... ~ •• ' ....,.................-.:t...............'f•...-.....___~""'"';................~l ....'ll~· ..~.....:ot....... ~ ,. ......... , ............,._....."'._...,,.,......._....,.... ~ .! 
...._ 


The results are based on 116 interviews with undergraduate andgraduate students selectedat random from Notre Dame and Saznt Mary's. The interviews were conductedfor The Observer on january 19 and 20 by the McNally Research Group. 
• • . Local poll 
[contznued from page 1. J 

H~mpshire p~imar'y, Carter was relatively unknown. By wmmng both m Iowa ar..! New Hampshire (by impressing a small group through « lengthy campaign) he eventually snowballed his way to the presidency. In '76 the key factor was recognition -once people recognized Carter and took his candidacy serio~sly, people began to weigh his opinions and stance on the tssues against those of his more famous opponents. In this year's ReJ.mblican race there are several candidates who are in a similar position as was Carter four years ago. And two of these previously unrecognized candidates, according to the McNally poll conducted here over the weekend, have made dramatic gains in the last few weeks regarding their rcognizability. 
Accor~ing to the Me~ally pol~, 59 percent of all those polled recogmzed former Umted Nations ambassador George Bush as a presidential candidate, while 47 percent of those polled recognized Illinois Con~ressman John Anderson as a Republican contender. GIVen that both of these men were almost certainly unknown to most NDI SMC students several weeks ago as presidential contenders, one would have to conc_lude that t~e c_ampai~ns of~oth men are successfully, albett slowly, bnngmg thetr candtdates to the people. While 
only 14 percent of those polled said they would vbf'e for'B6Sk...... ...._......_,,-­
and only eleven percent said they would endorse Anderson: they are both closer t_o the f~ont-run~er (Ronald Reagan, 21.5 percent) than one rritght thmk constdenng that 21.5 percent of all Republicans polled are still undecided. 
If both men's campaign chests continue to hold out and they are both a bit; to take: their cases to the people in'Iowa ~nd New H3:mpsh1re, thet,~ new public r_ecognizability might JUSt allow etther man to get hts foot m the door" with a strong showing there as Carter did in 1976. 
One shouldn't count Reagan, Howard Baker and the others out, but one must concede the first round of the Republican race -at least here at ND/SMC-to Anderson and-Bush. 
Among Democrats, recognizability is a foregone conclusion. The three majore figvres-Carter. Edward M. Kennedy, and Jerrv Brown -are well-known national personalities. The McNally poll echoed this sentiment showing at least 92 percent of all those polled recognized these three as ~residential ~ontenders. Carter leads the pack here by a stzeablemargm, 48 per_cent to Kenned{s 21 percent and Brown's 7.8 percent, wtth 22 percent sull undecided at this 
junction. 

• • .Caucus 


n -liberal commissions 


-unlirnited opportunity 
For more information contact Mike Holsinger I assistant ad;nanagerI at 7471 

. 

I would like to announce to my Notre Dame patrons, that because of personal circum­stances I am no longer associated with the re~taurant located at 1123 South Spring St. Mtshawaka. 
Please watch the future notices of my new location in which to serve you better. Thank you for your past patronage 





THE OBSERVER 
needs advertising salespeople no experl•ence
eeded 



The Observer Tuesday, January 22, 1980 -page 4 

Z<Jhm 's scholar-athlete Moose ''/gnats'' lights up in celebration ofPittsburgh's 31-19 Super Bowl victory over the 
Rams. [Photo by Doug Chnstian] 
, , .Deadlygas 
[continued from page 8.] As a policy, the U.S. has 
adopted only defense measures 
States pleged it would never against chemical attacks rather 
resort to chemical or biological t~an developing its own offen­
weapons except in self defense. sive capabilities. New military
The source said that since 1953, vehicles are equipped to more 
the U.S. has been dismantling through affected areas with 
its toxic gas stockpiles. impunity. 
FLY FROM SOUTH BEND TO FORT LAUDERDALE ONLY $189 
Complete package as low as $298 
Complete package includes round trip non-stop jet fare and oceanfront hotel accomodations 
also available National Car Rentals 
DEPARTS MARCH 29 RETURNS APRIL 5 

for reservation information call Shaz 232-6831 or call toll-free 1-800-848-9540 arrangements by ~tudent Sun Trips, Inc. 


128 feared dead 


Boeing crashes near Tehran 
KUWAIT (AP) -An Iran Air Boeing 727 carrying 128 per­sons crashed into the moun­tains yesterday as it approach­ed Tehran on a flight from Mashhad and it was feared all aboard were killed, Tehran Radio reported 
In a broadcast monitored here, Iran's official Pars news agency said search teams found. the burning wreckage of the three­jet craft in heavy fog and deep snow in mountainous terrain 13 miles north of Tehran. 
Tehran Radio reported early today that 60 bodies had been recovered and said poor wea­ther was hampering search operations that continued through th-e night. 
There were no reports of any foreigners be:,ng aboard the craft and it was believed most 
• • .Gatnes 
[continued from page 9.] 
''It is both legally and techni­cally impossible to move the Games to another country,'' he said. 
Ambassadors of the 15 NATO member countries discussed again Monday without aP.parent conclusion the possibility of boycotting the Olympics. The meeting was devoted mainly to a briefing by U.S. Ambassador T_apley Bannett on Carter's views. 
The U.S. Olympic Committee prepared to meet in Colorado Spnngs, Colo., this weekend to map strategy on the crisis. Meanwhile, Claude Collard, President of the French Nation­al Olympic Committee, said "I think that all (the controversy) leads to one conclusion: that is that the Olympic Games, in their present form, are dead." 
American public opinion oar-, 
the United States 
out of the Moscow 
11v1mn.rr<:, the Associated Press-NBC News poll showed Monday. The margin in favor of not sendin~ a team was 49 to 41 percent, w1th 10 percent saying they were undeCided. 
Libertarian leader to speak 

Edward Facey, a professor at Hillsdale College in Michigan, will give a presentation on the Libertarian Political Party and the nation at 7:30 tonight, in the Hayes-Healy Business Building Auditorium, Room 122. 
Dr. Facey studied under the great Austrian, Ludwig von Mises, and has been a major voice in the regional develop­ment of the Libertarian Party anrl the party's response to contemporary economic situa­tions. The Libertarian Party is the nation's major rival to the rwo traditional political parties, and has -drawn a significant following from the academic community. 
All students, faculty, and the public are invited to attend. The Political Action Club of Notre Dame is sponsoring the event. 
of the passengers were Moslem pilgrims r;eturning to Tehran from a ~sit to shrines in the holy city of Mashhad, about 500 miles to the east. The radio station said there were 120 passengers and eight crew members aboard the plane. Earlier reports had listed 116 passengers and eight crew. 
Iranian civil aviation authori­ties saidflight 291 left Mashhad at 5:40 p.m. and air traffic controllers at Tehran's Mehra bad airport lost contact with the 
[continued from page 1.] 

The Loyalists are a major force 
against British withdrawal be­
cause, Fitzgerald believes, they 
look to the South and see that in 
actuality they are a minority in 
Ireland. 

As negotiations for a settle­
ment in Northern Ireland begin, 
Fitz~erald sees rwo leaders 
coming to the forefront of their 
respective:ommunities. One is a fundamentalist protestant minister, Rev. Ian Paisley, who represents the ultra-conservat­ive portion of the Protestant majority in Northern Ireland. He has appealed to the Protest­ants' fears of the Catholics and the majority they would h~ld in a unified Ireland. John Hume, the new leader of the Social Democratic Labor Party, is the new lead~r of the Catholic minority, and is one of the foremost political strategists in Northern Ireland. 
Fitzgerald is buoyed by the changing attitudes in the Unit­ed States towards the conflict in Northern Ireland. Irish-Ameri­can politicians are more free now than they were just a few years ago to push for U.S. pressure for a settlement, due 
to an education of the Irish-American public as to the actual situation In Northern Ireland. Fitzgerald believes that Ameri­cans may tend to underestimate 
the difficulty of obtaining a solution, due to the fact that they see It simply as the struggle to overcome British Colonialism, rather than a composite of other social and political factors. He surmises that Americans may sub-con­sciously see the situation as analo~ous to the situation of the Amencan Revolution, where in actuality the Britich Loyalist supporters are just as much Irish as any. Many of the Loyalist families have bee!J in Ireland for at least 350 years. 

Society of Arts elects fellow 
] a;,1es J. C.1rberry, Notre Dame professor of chemical e,-.gineering, has been elected fellow of tht> Rvyal Society of Arts, which was chartered by Queen "-icroria ;1: Great Britain iu 1847, nearly a r-:ntury after its establishment in 1753. 
A Notre Darne faculty mem­ber rince 1961, ('arbl"'rry was named Sir \X'inston O,;.Irchill Fello .v, Churchill College, Cambridge University for 1979. 

plane 15 mmutes before it was to land. 
It said roads leading to the site near a resort area were clog~ed with motorists and RevolutiOn­ary Guards were ordered in to assist the rescue teams. 
Iranian air traffic controllers had been on strike for about six hours earlier yesterday, result­ing in cancellation of more than 100 domestic flights. They re­sumed work before noon local time, well before the missing flight was due to take off. 
... Ireland 
Fitzgerald adamantly oppos­
ed any move for inclusion of the Irish Republican Army (IRA) at the peace talks beginning now. "The aim and purpose of the IRA is to create such violence against the minority (in North­ern Ireland), that the Republic wpuld be forced to intervene,'' Fitzgerald said. "They should not be included simply because they murder the people.'' Fitz­gerald hopes the American public, and especially the Irish­American public will not sup­port their effort for violence. 
In a lunchtime lecture, Fitz­gera~d-discussed the_ economic 
. condmon of t~e Third World and how the First World could act to eliminate ~h~ disparity in standards ?f h~!ng. In the lecture, entitled After Lome: E!-lrope and the Third Worl_d," Fitzgerald c;:alled for ~he U_mted States to u~crease Its aid to those countnes where, ,the pov­erty wa~ the greate~t. . 
Dr. Fmgeral~ Will give ~o more presentati_ons. t_oday, m conclusiOn of his VISit to the campus. F!tzgerald's father, Desm~md Ft~z~erald, was also an Insh polltlcal leader, and taught at the ND campus from 1935-1938. 
============ 


Party leader Fitzgerald to give talk 
Dr. Garret Fitzgerald, leader of the Irish Opposition Party the Fine Gael will give rwo talks to the Notre Dame campus today and meet with faculty and students in this area dunng his visit. 
Fitzgerald, who was minister for foreign affairs for the Rep­ublic of Ireland from 197 3 to 1977, will speak on "Ireland by the year 2000: A Political Analysis," tonight at 7:30 in the Galvin Life Science Auditor­ium. He will also speak at 4:30 this afternoon in 108 O'Shaughnessy on "Language and History in Ireland: 1750­1850." 
Fitzgerald is the author of a recent book, Towards a New Ireland, and early in 1979, proposed his own solution for the crisis in Northern Ireland, which called for representation of both Protestants and Catho­lics in a new government. In 1976, Fitzgerafd noted that the Catholic Church and influence in many government areas in Ireland, and called for a legal­ization of the sale of contracep­tives and repeal of the legal ban on divorce. 
The Observer Tuesday, January 22, 1980-page·' 
Weather permits progress 


Construction victitnizes trees 
h?' Michael Mader students ro move in by next fall. lopment No less than 15 build-Constructlon of the chemistry ings wen: built during the ConstructiOn begun over i1a11 wtH cosr over $9 mtllion, 1960's, while the Galvin Life ( hristmas break on several new ·'more than anticipated " ac-Science huild.ing, dedicat~d in ·Jmversity h.'!ldings has left a cording to O'Meara. 'l'he idea · 1971, and the University Town­wake Jf falic-n trees around for a new chemistry hall has houses, completed in 1976 were .trnpus. Ho·wever, ''the Uni­been under consideratiOn f.or the only other additton~ during , erstty is very conscious about many years and ground was the 1970's. · ts trees and assures an ade­broken on' the east side of · Decisions regarding pnonty of <iUate replacement for any trees .Nieuwland )cience Hall last buildings are made by the ··emoved,' · Provost Timothy 0'­May. "Stepan will have superb Officers of the Umverstty The Meara satd. research faolities, offices and next prioritv is a faculty' office 
Construction proje<.:ts under­laboratories ·. whtch are most bU1ldtng, needed because the . way include the dormitones approenate cons1dering the his-offices tn the basement of the which are to complete .:he north tory of chemistry this Univers1-library are not satisf~ dory,quad and Stepan C.hemtstry ty has had.'· Completion "f ~h-· · <>Nntding to O'Meara. A. deci­Hall, a building to house offices hall is set for December ot 1981. s1on on when to begin construe-and laboritories for chemistry The new construction projects don may be made "in the professors. and two recentlY dedicated reasonably near future,'' 0'­
Concerning the new dormito­buildings on the southeast end Meara said. ries, O'Meara commented, "At of campus, the Fitzpatrick Hall Though it is winter, favorable this point, we can no longer of Engineering and the Snite weather conditions have allow­plan on finishing by the beginn­ArtMuseum, represent a large ed construction to proceed. The· mg of the next school year." expanston on campus after a engineers plan to do as much as Plans had originally called for decade or relatively little deve-weather permits, O'Meara 
said. 


• • .Caucus~ 
unwmmitted.

[continued from page 3.1 
~n the Republican competi-~ Carter said. mn ! .rd-fought ·ron. Reagan hmired his per­and well-org...mzed <>ft()rt 10 '.onal appearances, over the JCJwa.' · protests of his Iowa managers. 
1 

\\Vhire Hose ,cJ,...s and Patrick Hts. :1attonai campaign chief. 
.tddell .ne ,.> ,.~1dent' s rhief ) ohn P. )ear" ··aid Reagan as . ,>olister. watcht>rl the "'wa re­the frontwnner had tO cam-· . lltns as they were reported on pargn ~attOnalil· instead of con-j television, cheenng r nd1y as •Tnt rating no • 'Je srace. . Carter's victory he• ;Hne ap­In contrast, hush practtc..uiv ,.. parent. took up reo;;idence ,n Iowa. His 
!'Cennedy, ~onceding Pres•dent campaign riavs tt•raled nearly ' ' · arter a VICtory •n 'the Iowa month, and he t)n 'It an ore:at• · . •recinct cau<. u~r:s. ·•ougnt to zatwn to nval ii.eagan~ He 1. 
ninimize the •rnportance of the was still at it Mon<.iay, roammg 
>resident s triumph. Iowa wrth Leon ) aworski, the 
And he vow<·d again to wrest former Watergate special pro­1 
he Democranc nomination secutor, at his side. .· r·om Carter. Baker's organizatwnal pusn 
'Tonight. according to my was less ambitious, and he sald 
·•Unt, Prestdent Caner needs he .needed a big turnout to do . · .643 delegates more to win the well. He flew back to Washing­nommation," Kennedy told se-ton Monday savmg 'Amen1..a ts ~­
t'fal hundred enthusiastic sup­in the good, 8trong, ·sturdy . Porters at his national cam­hands of Iowa.· · p;ugn ht'adouarters. "We need 
Connally mvested more heav-· 16) 7 and we n-going to get it." 
dy in televiswn advertising than IWhile lowa 'gave •=.aner a did the orher Republicans, andvictory ufsorts and so began his he wrapped up 'his campaignclimb to the ll)76 Dt"mocrauc with a round-the-dock mara-,nomination, the state never saw thon across the state. He drew a Ia presidential campatgn like the crowd at a wee-hours rally at
one that ended yesterda~. 
Iowa State University by offer­Kennedy staged an intensive 
1
in!! free beer. And he toldoperation in 'the state, and his 
1
people any time they werepersonal etlorts were matched 
1
asked to vote on anything at abv J. statewide organizauon caucus, they should keep it;geared to ger out his vote. 
'1
simple: "Just say John Connal-:Carter relied on organizers and 
, 1 '
ly, l'm for John Connally." · 
stand-in campaigners like Vice President Waltcor F. Mcndale. Crane kept campainging The president agreed ro debate right up to caucus time. Dole Kennedy and Brown. then with­said he would have liked to do drew, saying trouble m Iran and the same, but had to go back to then Afghanistan kept him at Washington to work on farm the White House and out of the legislation -a big issue in corh · campaign. He said agam on country pinched by Carter s Sunday that he would not be a embargo of grain sales to rhe 
i 

Ip:l_rtisan camp~igncr in a time Soviet Union. 1 ot national cnsts. 
McDonnell Douglas Corporation is • Receive(brochures of all pro­
With 327 precincts reportmg,Brown bid for Iowa support 
having an Open House fo; Engineer­grams and career opportunities;
it stood this way:pnmarily to get a spot in the 

ing and Computer Science $eniors 
Refre~hments
planned debate. After it was Bush 4,023.
cancelled, his campaign did not 
interested· in learning more about 
Reagan 3,ns. 

We'll be on campus
amount to much, and he went 
career opportunities. This is your op­
Sen Howard H. ~aker Jr. ofhome saying his .supporters Tennessee 2,029. 
portunity to: Tues., Jan. 22
should declare themselves un­Former Texas Gov. John B.
committed at the caucuses. 
• Ta!k w1th recent graduate<: j:Yes­Morris Inn
Uncommitted raucus votes Cr '"'ally 1,242. 
e:"':iy workir.g with McDonnell
Rep. Philip Crane of Illinoiswould leave delegates to coun­
Shamrock Room
806. 

Douglas Corporation. 
ty, district and state conven­Rep. John B. Anderson oftiOns free to make their choices 
· • See mDvie-. oi fighter & Com­7:00pm-9:00pm
Illinois 581.

later in the campaign. 
Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas 240. 
mercial Atrcratt Spa(ecraft. and
[t took at least 15 percent of 
/
Uncommitted 267.

the votes at a caucus to gain one 
·,;:•,sile Programs. 
MCDONNELL DOUGLQ""!_,/__
of its delegates to the county 
"-...,_/

convention, and Brown's peo­Despite the big turnout, the 
ple were concerned about caucuses drew only a fraction of 
U.S. Citizenship Required An Equal Opportunity Employer
reaching that threshholq unless Iowa's 1.5 million registered they joined for...:es with the voters. 

The Observer Tuesday, January 22, 1980 -page 6 
·Psych survey results due soon, grant adds new services 
, 
r r 
,r 
, 
,r 
, 
r 
' 
r 
~ 
t 
by Kelli Flint StaffReporter 
The questionnaires complet­
ed by students in December are 
being processed, and will be 
posted in the dorms in about 
two weeks, Particia Crosson, 
Director of Psychological Serv­
ices said yesterday. 
Crosson also detailed one of 
the added services the Center 
has provided since receiving a 
$10,000 grant from an anony­
mous Notre Dame graduate last 
November. The donation was 
specifically allotted to tht~ stud­
<~nt alcohol program. 
The department contributed $1,000 of the donation to help finance Dr. Putsch's recent lectures here on alcoholism. The money was also used ro send a staff member to a National Alcoholic's Treatment meeting at Peach ford hospital in Atlanta. According to Cros­son, the department is planning to send other members to similar meetings ro improve their skills. 
Crosson, along with Peggy Cronin and Wayne Pellegnni, planned the alcohol "program during the summer. As a result of the donation, the program has been modified. 
An alcohol research of stud­ents use. and abuse was done 
before Christmas break !..j the Center. The survey was a replication of a national study, attemoting to discover how alcohol use at Notre Dame compared with the expectations for this particualr age group. The results are due withm two weeks, and will be posted in the dorms. 
The Center recently purchas­ed additional equipment, which will be made available to the dorms for their use in alcohol programs. Film and slide pro­Jectors will be added to the film library, along with video tapes on alcohol intervention and treatment. "We feel that the Resident Assistants and friends of students are the first to see the student in trouble with alcohol use," Dr. Crosson said ··we would like to create a team with hall staffs and stud­ent leaders to help students at risk of becoming alcoholics." 
"Our first use of the money was in planning and purchasing equipment. These 1iscs were consolidated to find the dimen­sions of alcohol use and abuse," Dr. Crosson said. "Our next plan is to develop prevention programs for alcohol abuse.'' 
The Psychological Service!; Department met with Fr.]ames Duane, Professional Services srecialist, and planned a series 
o special interest programs for rectors and R.A.s. "When the money came through,it became obvious that instead of offering films that we already had, we would be able to plan a cohesive program of alcohol preven­tion," Dr. Crosson said. 

The contribution will also be used to enlarge the work of the Students On Alcohol Problems (SOAP), a student volunteer group. SOAP members help students who are unaware that they have a problem with alcohol. ''The goal of the SOAP ~roup is to help bring students rnto treatment,'' Crosson add­ed. 
''Thus far, the work that we have done with the donation has been successful," Crosson said. ''The -Pursch lectures were well attended, and had impact on both the professional and student audiences. The alcohol questionnaires provided 
a . 39 percent sample of the undergraduate residential pop­ulation. The response is consid­ered very good, and the re­search could not have been done without the ,cooperation of the student government, espec­ially the Hall Presidents Coun­
cil." 
b_y Pam Degnan 

Governance Board to attend 
Senior StaffReporter 

Seven Notre Dame students
college UJorkshop conference 
were issued warning by the 
Pam Degnan Senior StaffReporter 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance met last night and discussed plans to attend the Catholic Universities and Col­leges Conference to be held on Feb. 7-10 in Washington, D.C. 
Workshops designed to help student government leaders deal with hostile and uncooper­ative administrations will high­light the four-day conference. 
Other workshops· will examine the effectiveness ofcourse eval­uation booklets and parliament­ary rules and procedures, ac­cording to Pia Trigiani, Student Body president. 
The Board also approved speakers for the upcoming Lunch Speaker Series and the Hall Speaker Series. ] ohn Ari­stotle Phillips, former Princeton Student-"genius" behind the do-it-yourself atomic bomb will discuss the development of 

Observer needs typists. all Kim at 8122 or 8661 

............................
+ 
The Observer Needs You .
' 

Layout Positions Available! 
• 
No experience Necessary 

• 
Good chance for advancement 


Sunday, Tuesday, or Thursday night positions 
• Call John at 8661• 

Alcoholic Beverage Commis­sion for using false identifica­nuclear power on Wednesday tions to enter Nicki's Bar onnight in Carroll Hall at 8 p.m. 
Friday night. 
Trigiani also noted that the A member of the vice squadRape Awareness Committee involved in the bust suggestedheaded by Susan Tamborini that the Alcoholic Beverageand Dean ] ames Roemer will Commission raid the Southmeet in early February. "The Bend bars twice a semesterCommittee has expanded in the when renewing area liquorpast couple of weeks which is a liscenses.

~ood sign that people are Two men dressed in plain­Interested in curbing theproblem clothes circulated throughoutof rape," Trigiani said. 
the bar asking several students to show identification. "This guy came up to me and asked me how old I was. I told him I was 19 and he told me if I didn't want to see some action, that I'd better clear out," one 
ND Press 
publishes 
student said. 
• The students were warned a repeated C>ffense could
bustness book that 
result in a possible jail sentence 
"Management Procedures for Institutions,'' the second volume of the three-part series entitled ·'Notre Dame Studies in the Management of Not-For­Profit Institutions," has been published by the University of 
Notre Dame Press.
Author Ray M. Powell, pro­fessor of accountancy in the pniversity's College of Busi­~ess Administration, says the pook is "the presentation of ~dministrative materials and deas gathered in the Masters n Institutional Administration 
Program at the University." 
The book discusses such topics as fundame:ltal planning methods ,managerial control, al­location of resources, personnel management, investment man­agement, insurance, budgetary control and financial reporting. 
Publications of the 400-page ._,olume was assisted by a grant from the Price Waterhouse foundation. The other two volumes in the series are entitl­
r:d "Accounting Procedures for Institutions" and "Budgetary Control Procedures for Institu­liOnS.'' 
and a $200 fine, according to 
&says discusses Third World 
"Directions of Economic De­velopment,'' a collection of five essays discussing economic de­velopment ofThird World coun­tries, has beenfublished by the University o Notre Dame Press. 
The book's tive essays are: ''Paradigms of Economic De­velopment and Beyond" by Wilber and Jameson, '' per­spectives on Capital and Tech­nology in Less-Developed Countries" by Arnold C. Har­berger, "A Basic-Needs Ap­proach to Economic Develop­ment" by Paul Streeten, "An Age of Global Reconstruction'' by Celso Furtado, and ''Eco­nomic Development: A M~rxist View" by John G. Gurley. 

the South Bend Vice Squad spokesman. "No arrests were made, although there's always a next time," he said. 
One student who was walking 
from Gooses's to Nicki's de­scribed the bar raid as ''fright­
coin~.·· 
''K1ds were just pouring out of Nicki's screaming and yelling. Some ran over to Corby's. They were probably trying to warn their friends that the police were on their way to bust the place," explained a Saint Ma­ry'.s student. 
,,, Pinto 

[contznuedfrom page 1.] 
bottles of beer. He insisted, however, that he had not smok­ed that day, claiming that the marijuana and beer were left over from a birthday party the weekend before. 
A police report, admitted last Wednesday, showed Duggar's ~alcohol level to be zero. 
Consentino concluded the af­tern_oon by callin~ a witness ~o tesbfy that the girls were stJil conscious after the impact. Fireman Douglas Bechtel first described the scene as "one large fireball with black smoke \ ! and bright orange fire in and around the car.'' For him that indicated a petroleum fire. 
He then said the victim out­side the car was not only conscious, but also moved and spoke coherently. Staffeldt, however, refused to allow testi­mony about what she told him. A good part of today is expected to be srent with Cosentino and Nea arguing, outside the presence of the jury, on the admissability of medical evidence. Cosentino hopes some of this evidence will be admitted as "relevant," showing the speed at which the Pinto and van were moving. He told reporters rhar he has two doctors ready to take the stand. 
""--------------------------------------------------------­
--------~---~-------­
Editorials 
Tuesday, January 22, 1980 -page 7 
P. O.BoxQ 
Banishment of 
hard-hitting players 
would ruin football Dear Editor: 
I am writing with regard to 
Craig Chval's attack on Jack 
Tatum and his book, They Call 
Me Assassin, (The Observer, 
Jan. 19). 
This letter comes from a person who has played defen­sive back (as does Mr. Tatum) in Junior High, High School, and Interhall here at Notre Dame. The defensive back does not have a lot of weapons at his disposal in his attempt to stop the offensive team. He is usually the smallest man on the field, and he is regarded as the last line of defense. If he is beaten, all is lost. Wide· receivers, on the other hand, are the fastest players on 'the field, and run planned, complex patterns. A defensive back who does not try to intimidate these receivers will find himself lying on his back watching the rear end of the receiver as the touchdown is scored. Calling this "cowardice" and "cheap shots" is demonstrative of a great lack of gridiron know­ledge. Mr. Tatum happens to be a football player who can hit very hard and is proud of his talents. I only wish I had a fraction of his talents when I was chasing high school ends. Jack Tatum's book is his attempt to frankly talk about the way he plays his position. His comment that his 6est shots .. border on felonious assault" describes the state of football, and the way Tatum believes it must be played. Do the pulling guards leading Walter Payton around end deal out love taps and politely ask the defenders oottodamagePayton, who hap­pens to be the Bear's franchise? Jack Lambert will never win any Mr. Congeniality contest, but his determination (and co­wardice?) enabled him to be named AFC Defensive Player of the Year and to lead the Steelers to another Super Bowl. 
Let's face facts. FootbaJI is a violent game, and the banish· ment of the harder-hitting play­
ers would give the game all the competitiveness of dancing. 
H~pping on the b~ndwagop whtch seeks to ostractze Tatum is not the proper way to use up good newsprint space. I hope 
. this campus has enough pre­sent and former football players to know that the problem is not with "Jack Tatum, subhuman" but with Craig Chval and others who are hell-bent on destroy­ing, or at least damaging, the. great game of football. If we remove all of the violence, we are left with cheerleaders and half"time shows. 
Peter Rimkus · 
Cnimcil extends thanks for ND/SMC support 
To the ND!SMC Community, 
'''t~ 
Once again we are in th~ fortunate po;sition of express~~ thanks to those< who parttct"Y pared in the annual Christmas Party at Logan. Itwastruly ~ successful event, and . your in, volvement was most crucial to the final outcome.. 
We would also like to. recotf; nize Fr. Hesburghfor giving of h.. is time and. energy by .Playing Santa Claus for our chtldren.'~! 
lildee<l it was qui~f: moving.··.i..~··· 
see the dose relationship t:Mt' Father, the students,· and the childr~n enjoy~d atthat time· .{tmade it a special Chrisurias for . 
~-. ~· 
Finally we'iwould•·like to eril~5., phasize the importance. the Mardi,,,gras (;hes~ ,Fund has ·· •• our program,, l;l'brough · monies obtained from this re.:: source, we W:ere able to fmance. gifts, food,,.and refreshme~rs··. for the party (not to mer........ other majot; events we t!!~d,, throughout the year). Ouf 
or.g.aot~.a.. t~on. strong..ly ~~p.port~.'.··
the Mard1 Gtas and encou,rages 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
students to continue to sppporr 
it with the.. vigor and erithusi~ 
asm they have shown in the 
past. This fund raiser -is most 
Important to the survival of 
many charities such as ours. 
Walt Bankowski & BdL~~;heryCouncilfor the J?.etarr.kid 

GOV!/?IlJR CWNAUY, I fAKJtoJT)£3R IF YOU COIJW , &mAIN /AJIAT Pf!IJMPlEl) ] >1'Jf.J ANO Y.OUR.. fti.J.()IAJ 
CM/)f{)llf&S 77J lJtCI..A/?& 70VAY ''f)f5l/NITY OAY." 
/ 


The Olympics 
]Jig Games or Big Bucks? 
WASHINGTON-· High on the list of athletes I've cheered for in the past few years, and held up to my children and houseful of young friends as worthy of their cheers also, are Bill Rod· gers, Francie Larrieu and Mike Shine. They are world~ass runners. Each competed in the 1976 Olympics. Each is in full sweat to make this year's team. 
But my cheering has stopped. I've learned that Rodgers, Lar-­rieu and Shine, along with many other Olympic hopefuls, are great athletes but dismal citizens. Confronted with the possibility that the President may call for a boycott of the Moscow games each pouted and griped as if they were setting records in a new AAU competition: long distance selfishness . 
The sports section of the Washington Post reported their view. Saying she would be "let down" if the boycott came about, Lartieu said, "At this point, I don't think about anything much but myself .. .I train so hard all day, when I come home I put my feet up, and it's all I can do ... Quite frankly, I'm somewhat of a bum." 
Shine is another hardworker who thinks he and his legs come first. " ... Damn right, I'm selfish. It's just like anything else. The U.S. is made up of a lot of Number Ones that look our for Number One first.'' 
. 
Rodgers, who has shared jog­gins tips with Jimmy Carter dunng dinner at the White• House, sulks that he and the other fleetfoots are "simply a tool, an implement. No one cares at all, until we can be used for their (sic) purposes. Then they can use it.'' 
On the level of fun and games, I have sympathy for competi· tors who have their big day called off for reasons beyond their control. But even aside from the sensible arguments being made for boycotting Mos· cow--that we shouldn't ignore R,ussia's latest militarism or be a party to its effort in self-pro· motion--another form of self­promotioin is also at work. For too many of our athletes,-the quadrennial games have more to do with Big Bucks than Big Races. 
Win a gold medal or two and you win golden rewards of contracts to hawk merchandise. 
Bruce Jenner sells cameras and breakfast cereal. Mark Spitz says milk is good for you. Frank Shorter promotes a hotel chain. 
Why should anyone care if Bill Rodgers the businessman doesn't get to Moscow to cap more business deals should he win the marathon? He has deals enough already .. with Perrier, his own clothing line and his several stores. If Rodgers, who is in no danger of going on food stamp's, feels 
Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills
as objectively as possible. Editorials 
Managing Editor..........Diane Wilson 
represe~t t~e opimon of a majoriry of 
Box Q Notre DatM, IN 46556 the Edttonal Board. Commentaries Editon'al Editor .............. Ann Gales Senzor Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak
opinions and letters are the views of 
their authors. Column space is avail­Executzve News Editor ..... .Mike Lewis Observer is an independent 
spaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor ............. ' ...... Mark Rust an~ . the free expression of varying News Editor ...... , ..... ..... Mike Shields
the University of Notre Dame du lac 
d Saint Mary's College. It does not opm1ons on campus, through letters, is SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brassll essarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. 
Colman McCarthy. 
victimized for being ·-·a rool," p~rhaps it is because the Olym­pics are a tool for him--to jimmy the vault where the lucrative 
contracts awaiJ the signatures of gold medalists. Ms. Larrieu, the self-con­
. fessed track bum; ably explains 
this J?hilosophy of selfishness 
by domg well in Moscow: ''I'm 
the one that is going to benefit, 
not the American people, by 
signing a fat -.contract and 
~aving my narri~ well-known. 
I m the one Wlth. the medal 
around my neck.;'··"· 
The double-standard created 
by the captious athletes is that 
it is wrong for tli~ President to 
mix politics and sp.~rts, but it is 
fine for the athletes to mix 
sports and commerce. I doubt 
if the protest against the boy­
cott would be so ra~ping if mere 
amateur glory wer¢. at stake. 
But amateurisin:has vanished. 
Except for ·'the::: doddering 
quoits players O[l .the lawns of 
Newport and ;Palm. Beach, I 
know of few champion athletes 
who compete ·:y.ril:l1out lawyers 
or accountants on the sidelines. 
With so much at stake financi­
ally, the athletes hilYe a hollow 
argument when they say, "We 
trained and sacrificed too hard 
for you take the plympics from 
us now." What ·have they 
sacrificed? They are healthy, 
young and find the' time to go 
out everyday ro· run, leap and 
bound to their ·hearts' delight. 
If only all of us could ''sacri­
fice'' like that. 
Not every athlete interviewed 
by the Post threw ·citizenship 
into the gutter._· Soine put the 
national interest .. before their 
own. Should the.Olympics be 
delayed for a year'and shifted to 
another si'te--this idea has been 
suggested--these'·' athletes de­
serve automatic··. berths on the 
team. We shou~~field a group 
of athletes with'moral, as well 
as physical, excellence. 
(c) 1980, The Washington Post Company ·"/.' · 
Sports Editor .... , .......... :':.Mark Perry Features Editor ..... Kathleen ConnellyPhoto Editor ... ...........Doug Christian 
Business Manager ........Steve Odland 
. "'Production Manager .... \ Jolin McGrath Advertising Manager .........Bob Rudy Controller................. .Kevin Manion c2irculation Manager ..... .preg Hedges 
administration of either institution. Editorial Board and Department Managers
...;.

The news is reponed as accurately and 

The Observer­

The Observer Tuesday, January 22, 1980 ·page~ 

I 
More troops in Afghanistan ' 
Soviet Union tnounts airlift 
J.lready I
(AP) The Soviet Union has The Soviet troops who began s1an rorces alreacy there. Esti ·mounted a transcontinental air­arriving in Kabul in masstve mates (>f -rhe number of Sovi•:l lift to pour fresh Soviet combat numbers Dec.25 helped topple troops In Afghamscan c..urrentt·, forces into Afghamstan, replac­Amin two days later and re· :~r(' in 76 ,000-HO 000 1·ange, ing local troops who are desert­placed him with Babrak Kar­The airlift coincide<; wah re~ ins their government's cause ma!. Both men were Marxists, ports from Atghan rebe I itke so many disappearing bur Karma! was regarded as <;ourreo;; and Asian and Western soda bubbles," diplomatic friendlter to Moscow Since dtplomats m Islamabad tha~ sources in Pakistan said yester­then the Soviets have jomed in AfghaQ army rroops are desew day. the war against anu-communist ing by the thousands· 
U.S 1ntelhgence sources in Moslem Rebels. "It's reliable informatton, · Washmgton estimated that So­Amencan JOurnalists expelled said a Western diplomat here! vier dead, wounded, captured en masse from Afghanistan "We are getting a large num-1 and mtssing In the war against Saturday reported seemg Soviet ber of reports rhat the Afghan anu-commumst rebels might Antonov transport planes un­army is just evanescing · dis­now total 2,000 l~ading fresh troops at Kabul ap6earing like so manv -;oda 
Foreign journalists reported atrport. · bubbles.'' from the Afghan capital of The sources in the Pakistam Two Afghan msur~ent groups Kabul that Moscow has also capital of Islamabad, who asked wtth spokesmen tn Pakistan sent in thousands of Soviet not to be identified by nam1 or· claimed late last week that 4,­administrators to take firm nationality, said Monday the 000 Af~han soldiers from an control of the government, atrlift had been going on for army dtvision based at Nahrin, whose communist bureaucracy several days. in Baghlan province 120 miles was hard hit by two years of They said the new troops were • north of Kabul, defected .to the bloody in-fighting. being flown in from bases in" rebel side with their arms. 
The new Afghan interior min­Eastern Europe and that they Diplomatic sources say there ister, meanwhile, said former apparently are to reinforce -not have been numerous similar re­president Hafizullah Amin was replace the Rus-ports. overthrown in a coup last Dec. 27 because he had been plotting with Moslem fanatics and the CIA to end Marxist rule in Afghanistan. 
Chemical warfare
The minister, Dayed Golabzoi, speaking at a news conference, claimed Amin had planned his power play for Dec. 29, AP cor­
remains Soviet option 
respondent Marcus Eliason re­
ported from Kabul. The nt"w 
by Sal Granata Yt>men cri!'is, Western o;;ol,lrces
regime has cJaimed repeatedly 
Senior \'taff Reporter believe Egypt !->uppiied 1!1sur­
that Amin was a CIA agent. 
gents with nrrvt" gas it alleged­,'-Jewsmf'n 111 embattled Afgha­ly received trom 1nc· Sovters ntstan tc-purr r hat the Sovier Most runJII\1. <1 \.ongres~wn­
Umon may qe employ!llg che­al panel la:-;t rnonch hearcJ ·ntcal J!aSB agatns! opposlt!on statements trom La<;,ttan tnbes· /orces tt~erf' Such action would men who tesrttied thev had be a vtolauon of the Gt>neva been the obJect ot chemtcaJ'invades' Convei).Uon Protocol outlawing . attacks. Based on their dt>scrip­chemical warfare. Tht> Sovit"t rions. it is ·believed that North UniOn IS a signatory of the Vietnam sprayed Lauuau vdla Protocol and also to a 1969 U.N. gers with au aerosol form ot 
Tourney 
LaFortune 
resolution which bans both Blood Gas. Thts agent acrs on chemu:al and biologtcal war­:mman beings by causing trau­Trees are bemg removed as the constructwn of the Stepan fare. naric disintegration of capillary
Cannady Music Company wtll
)ct".:nce Center gets underway. See related story on page 5. Accordmg to Prof. ] ohn Rodes walls leading to hemorrhaging
sponsor a Space Invader tour­
[Photos by Doug Christian]. of the Notre Dam~" Law School, and death within mtnute<; ot
nament on 1..ampus, starung 
although International agree­physical contact.
today and continuing for ten 
ments may express the ~enti­[n all these reports except the
consecutive Tuesdays. The 
ments ot the world communttv, ! Jkrainian incident, the Sovie•finals will be held March 25 tn 
the LaFortune gam, room tht"v-can only be self-t>nforced ilnum has played the role ot
Hesburgh appoints ~supported by world opimon. iis1 ributor for. rhetr satellites
Any hall which han 5 M 
8F 

Rodes noted that the Soviet ; 'echnically, they have never
invaders gamt: wtll be eltg1ble 
Union does not care much about ; ioJated international law. In
for the tournament. Srudenrs of 
world opmion. Afgh<!nistan it IS possible that
halls which do not have the
jordan to council 

·'A country which manipulates the Karmal regime is employ­game in their nails mav corn­
pete at the ·:rudent center. its own internal news does ru>t ing, gas under Soviet supervi· 
Each hall must have a tourna­need to worry too much about Slon. 
M.B.A. from Columbia Univer­
iohn W. Jordan IJ, vice ment director ro record and world opmion," Rodes satd. There are three principal types 
pr('sH!enr of Carl Marks & sity in 1973, is also a partner in Because most coumnes want ot gas which could be employed 
venfy scores, and turn them m
Company, Inc., in New York the Corporate Finance Group. to be in case of bv the Soviets. These are riot
prepared a
to rhe campus rournamenc dir­
Notre Dame· s advisory coun­
has been appointed' to th~ ector weekly. Barry Davis is ' chemical attack, the capability control gases' nerve gas' and 
advisory council for Notre cils are composed of business campus tournament director. to wage a chemical war is not blood gas. 
Oarne s College of Busmess and protesswnal persons who The winner and runner-up in banned. There arc not interna­The· first kind is rdarively 
Administration by University consult annually w1th deans and each hall will receive a trophy tional resolutions restricting the non-tehral and often ust-d by 
Prestdent Fr. Theodore M. directors about the develop­stockpiling of gas. police to quell civil disturban­
and prizes. The champion and
Hesburgh. ment of the university's col­Over the past decade, the ces. The U.S. employed riot gas 
runner-up Space Invader player 
.Jordan, a 1969 graduate of leges and other academic units Soviets have taken the lead in occasionally in Vtetnam to mca­
Notre 

~A; " 
' 
' 
' 

I 
I I I 
~

I I I I I I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I loo 
·. 
Dame who earned an 


OUR PAEP.lP.E FOR: . ) ~~:~ ' 
I 
-

MCIT•OAT· LSAT •GMAT -­ORE· GRE PSYCH· ORE BID 
I I

PCIT•OCIT• liT· MAT •SAT 
'

1MBI.H.m·ECFMG·FLEX·VQE 
NDB I, D • NPB I • NLE Flexibls Progrems I Hours 
I 
I

VIsit Any Center And See For Yourself 
I
Why We Make The Difference 

~~: 
' 

EDUC.ITIONAL CENTER 
I
291-3150 

TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782 Centers In More Than 80 Major US Cltle•, Puerto Rico. Toronto, Canada & Lugano Swill•"and 
... 

of the campus will receive a 
preparing for chemical war. pacitate combatants without en­
trophy and other prizes to be 
Large units of the Soviet Army dangering civilian lives. It is
determined later. For more 
are fully equtpped and trained especially effecuve in confining
information, call Davis at 8426. 
to operate 10 contammared spaces such as caves and environments under combat buildings. conditions. This raises the Nert~ gas, so-called because it 
Hunger question as to whether the attacks, the nervous system, decontammauon equtpment was itjtroduced during World observed by Western reporters War I. ,It is very lethal and some in Kabul is merely hardware types such as mustard gas are
Coalition 
organic to the Soviet Divisions extremely hard to breakdown that pushed across the Afghan for disposal. Some forms are border only a month a go. especially designed to cause asponsors_ fast The Afghanistan rumors, how­large percentage of casualties, ever, are only the latest in a but not necessarily fatalities. number of cases in which the Other forms are deadly after
The ND-SMC World Hunger 
Soviets or an ally have been even a limited exposure. · 
Coalition is sponsoring the 
unofficially accused of resorting Traditionally, there are two
Wednesday "Lunch Fast Pro­
to chemical warfare according ways of deploying gas; the first
gram" again this semester. 
to a militarv source on campus. is as an aerosol spray from
The sign-ups for Saint Mary's 
Immediately after World War aircraft, the second is by shoot
students will be tomorrow from 
II, ·the Red Army may have ing it at a target inside pressu­
11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. and 
used gas against rebelling U­rized artillery shells. 
4:00-6:00 p.m. in the dormitor­
kraiman partisans. During the By ratifying the Geneva Con­
ies. NO students will be able to 
occupation of Tibet by China, vention of 1949, the United 
stgn up next week for the 
Chinese forces. reportedly em­
[continued on page 4.]
program. 

ployed gas, and in the 1967-8 
--------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Tuesday, January 22, 1980 -page 9 
Recent poll indicates American citizens favor Olympic pullout 
NEW YORK (AP) -Americans narrowly favor the United States pulling out of the 1980 Summer Olympic Games in Moscow because of Soviet in­tervention· in Afghanistan, the Associated Press NBC-News poll says. 
The poll was conducted Thursday and Friday, before President Carter announced he was asking the U.S. Olympic Committee to withdraw from the Summer Games if Soviet troops are not withdrawn from Afghanistan in a month and the Games are not moved, postpon­ed of canceled. 
Forty-nine percent of those ~ho ~now ?f the Afghanistan
.? sttuauon satd the United States should not participate in the Moscow games, but 41 percent disagreed. Ten percent of the 1, 595 adults interviewed across the country by telephone were undecided . . While the. margin in favor of wtthdrawalts small, the public would overwhelmmgly support efforts to move the Olympics out of Moscow, the poll round. About two-thirds-66 percent -of the Americans who have heard of the Afghan crisis favored moving the Games out of Moscow. Twenty-six percent opposed such a move and 8 percent were undecided. Such a move has been discus­sed by various officials in the United States and elsewhere, but Olympic officials say a shift 
Officials urge alterations in game plans 
by Rick Temple APEditor 
U.S. government and Olympic officials launched an effort yes­terday to convince other wes­tern nations that they should follow President Carter's sug­gestion in trying to get the Summer Olympics moved out of Moscow, postponed or cancell­ed. 
Failing chat, they hoped to develop a groundshell of boy­cott sentiment that would take the propaganda edge off the Olympics for the Russians in retaliation for their military intervention in Afghanistan. 
The International .Olympic 
Committee, which owns the 
Games and which signed a 
contract with Moscow officials 
in 1974, reiterated that despite 
Carter's remarks on Amencan 
television Sunday, the Games 
would not be moved, postpone­
ed, or cancelled. 
Monique Berlioux, director of 
the IOC, said Carter's call for 
transfer or postponement was 
unrealistic, that the IOC can't 
break its Moscow contract, and 
that if the U.S. boycotts the 
Games it could lead to rethink­
ing about Los Angeles as the 
site for the 1984 Games. ~ 
Lord Killanin of Ireland, Pre­sident of the IOC, said it would be the Olympics movement and not the Soviet government that would suffer if the United States does not send a team. He called Carter's attitude "a ha­sty decision." 
[continued on page 4.) 
is not possible because of the should refuse to compete in the complicated logistics of the ~osc?w Games, public opinion Games. IS spltt. 
After the Soviets moved Those who favor withdrawal thousands of soldiers into Af­argue the Soviets must be ghanistan in late December, punished for the Afghanistan Carter announced a series of · tntervention and that with­actions against the Soviet drawal of the U.S. team would Union, including a partial em­be a severe blow to the interna­bargo on shipments of grain, tional prestige the Soviets and embargo on computers and hoped to win through hosting other high-technology items the Games. Opponents of with­
and consideration ofwithdrawal drawal argue that the Olympics from the Summer Games in must be kept above politics. Moscow. Asked directly about the 
Overall, Americans back Afghanistan crtsis 9 percent of President Carter's efforts to those questioned said they had deal with the Soviet interven­not heard of it. tion in Afghanistan. But they Forty-nine percent said they still do not think Carter has approved of Carter's actions in been tough enough in dealing response to the Soviet interven­with the Soviets. tion in Afghanistan. Thirty 
On the more direct question percent disapproved and 12 of whether the United States percent were not sure. 

THE LEADING NEWSMAGAZINE· AT THE LOWEST PRICE. 
Because you attend college you are eligible to receive TIME, the world's lead­ing newsweekly at the lowest indi­vidual subscription rate, just 35¢ an issue. That's BIG SAVINGS off the regular subscription rate of 59¢ an issue and even BIGGER SAVINGS off the $1.25 
newsstand price. 
And it's so simple to subscribe-just look for the cards with TIME and its sister publications, Sports Illustrated, Fortune, Life, Money and People. They are available at the college bookstore or from your local TIME representative: 
Kevin Rochford 121 E. Navarre South Bend, IN 46601 
(219) 233-5298 
-----------------------:-------------­
[ ~~-~-s~ -·---------~---~T~u-5~~~y-,~j~m-~---~~~-~W 
~ ~ ~ 
~ 
WASHINGTON· D.C. (A:") ­Miss lillian continues to sh.Ule as an original mind on the capital scene.
Miss Lillian 
Among•many mots from the President's mother, I liked her response when a radio reponer, mike in hand, sought her
rates the impressions after a · private audience with the Pope in Rome. "When he called me 'my child,'" Mrs. Caner answered, "I was ready right then to sign
seven best 
up as a Catholic." 

Now another one of those books of lists, soon to be published, records her Jist of the 10 best presidents of the 
United States. Mis'sLillian put Abraham Lin­-coin, a Republican who in his 
presidents 
time would have topped 
Molarity 
NOSER/aiSL'(, 

OO~A~IALON 
ND AND .5MC WOHEN F~ AN UR:.t>HIN& IS.SIJE 
tJF 


The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 
few 
popularity _polls in Georgia, at the head ofherlist. Son Jimmy wound up in sixth place, which may be as far as maternal Jove can stretch in the case of a politician. 
Actually, Mrs. Caner rated only the seven best Presidents of the United States and1 didn't go. on tt lQ.. Maybe she got bored with the whole idea or realized how ridiculous it was co have Presidents listed along with the 10 top driest Martinis, the 10 biggest bun­dles of wet wash, the 10 most listless lists oflists or whatever, which must rank among the 10 most overused words in the English language these days. 
Anyhow she put George: Washington in seventh place or last on her list. Behind Jimmy, who never cut Clown a peanut tree or chucked a do.Uar across the Okefenokee Swamp. . 
· S'fte ranked)ohn F. Kennedy the fifth best U.S. President, better than her son, which makes one wonder if Rose Kennedy would have returned the compliment and done the same for Jimmy Carter had the list makers caiJed at Hyanni­spon. 
To recap, here is the order in which Mtss Lillian voted in her all time Presidential preferen­tial primary: . 
Abraham Lincoln Woodrow Wilson Harry Truman Theodore Roosevelt ] ohn Kennedy ] immy Carter Teddy Roosevelt, a Republi­

by Michael Molinelli 


ACROSS 26 Cupid 63 Sniggled 30 Islands in 1 Get lost! 28 Petty ruler 64 "The­Galway Bay 5 Ship 32 "A -mins-Song" from 31 Places 
weights trel I" "Iolanthe" 32 Cry -(give 9 Caruso, 37 Jawaharlal 66 Cuba-an alarm) for one 38 Mouth: pref. 67 Concern 33 Seed 
14 A Chaplin 39 -in smoke 68 Privy to covering 
15 Lily plant (fail) 69 Low cards 34 City in 
16 "-Paris" 41 Bother 70 Hindu land Alaska 
17 Satiric 42 Members grant 35 Grand Forks librettist 45 Partner of 71 Hawaiian school 19 Climbing 17 A et al. goose letters pepper 48 Armadas 36 Dupe 20 Dictator's 50 Town in DOWN 40 Walk '1" aide Italy 1 Piggery heavily 21 "I -model 51 Place of occupants 43 Diner of a ..." combat 2 -Rica 44 Advances 23 Gilmore 54 Get rid of 3 Wrath 46 Stupid one of basketball 57 "-lad" 4 Spoiled 47 A orB 
25 Artery 61 Rowed 5 Chit 49 Baste 6 Olive genus 52 John­7 Shearer or Garner
Monday puzzle 
Talmadge 53 Man from 


8  Contest  Peking  
r... 9... ~an fr9m  55  Author  
Lhasa  Stephen  
10  Promote  56  Egret  
11  Memo  57  Whip mark  
12  Stop or pop  58  Devisee  
follower  59  River to  
13  Depend  the North  
18  River in  Sea  
France  60  City in  
22  Time divs.  india  
24  Mad  62  Sandhill,  
27  Offenses  in England  
29  Zeus's  65  Skirt  
mother  bottom  

can, made Mrs. Carter's Top Seven; F.D.R., a four-time: winner for the Democrats, didn't. 
... Varner 
[conti11uedfrom page 12) 

occupy their time between baskets. 
"In high school my defense was gOOd enough for high school but here we use a variety of defenses and it takes time to learn them all.' 
but, bouyed with his ne­found patience, Varner contin­ues to wait and watch and work like hell in practice. 
"Because I'm learning," he repeats. "And I know my time will come. " 
Watch him work and shoot a sweet comer jump shot that just may become his trademark may become his trademark before this whole thing is over (much like Dave Batton's top­of-the-key line drive became his claim to fame) and you can't help but thing that when the learning process i over this 
kid's gonna teach more than  a  
few unsuspecting opponents  a  
couple lessons of his own.  

. . . Fencer..~ 
[continued from page 12.] 
people were drawing attention 
to out winning streak, the least 
of whom was Clemson. 

"I was talking toJ.T. Lyons," 
continued DeCicco. "He was a 
director at Clemson's match 
with MIT last week. He told me 
Clemson couldn't even keep 
their minds off of our streak 
then. Instead of worrying about 
MIT, they were shouting, 
'105, 105."' 

The Irish women fencers were equally successful, beating the Lady Tigers, 12-4. Dodee Car­ney, captain of the women's foil squad, won all four bouts. Marcella Lansford and Liz Ba­rhon each went 3-1, while Susan Valdiserri opened her collegiate career by winning two of four bouts. 
St. Mary's had a rough go at it, however. The Belles dropped their encounter with Clemson, 14-2. as Louise Enyedy and Sharon Moore were~ the only two victors on the afternoon 
The Irish will traver to Detroit this weekend to fence Oberlin Windsor College, and always~ tough Cleveiand State. 
RETREAT 
for Grad Students THIS FRIDAY EVENING AND 
:/Macri's Italian Bakery\ 
SATURDAY, JANUARY 25th & Celebrating it's 1st Anniversary and treats are on us. 
26th 


O'HARA-GRACE TOWNHOUSES (WILSON CO:MM:ONS)
T oday's special -Chocolate torte
(With any purchase) 

SISTER JANE PITZ & FATHER
Weekly specials
3Keg~~­
. JOHN FITZGERALD
Ot~itt~ 
Free American coffee from 7:00-12:00 am. 
$5.00 DONATION TO COVER
Artioo whedaify 
Capuccino half price 
:MEALS
520 E. LaSalle

fedalj'3 uilaa 003025 
• 

REGIS'--I'E...,..,...,.R AT CAMPUS
So. Bend 

MINISTRY 4392 or 6536
FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUSJ Ph. 282-1010. 
I . . If ~;.\,! ·~ 
.:_ ....: :Y<·.: .. --------------.---... ·--_____..,. -·-...............-...._...
i _____ _ .... --""' '.: .. -----·-~-. -------..... -------... -----------------------... ---···-.-... ----· ---------­


.... ________________...__.,...._____._~-.--:..~_;_~--:.---~ 
. 
·----------~----------­
.. ...... 
"(!' t;f' .~.,....,..
" ...._... 
. ' 

The Obseryer -Sports Tuesday, january 22, 1980-pag~ .ll 
Classifieds '  
Found -in Mem. library, Thanksgiving time. Unopened Birthday card w/ "gift" Notices enclosed. First name on7 in pencil on sealed envelope Check w lost & Found Dept.CLINT EASTWOOD FOR SENIOR FEL LOW. Prepanng for a career in advertising/ For Rent public relations? G~t great experience for the future as the NAZZ Advertising Male Grad Student with Apartment toDirector' For 'more information, call share. Call 2n-1318.Mary Ahern at n57 Multiple vacancies Apt 2-A. 835 N NotreAnyone Interested on working for the Dame Ave. 232-0099 $82.50 per personGeorge Bush for president campaign and utilities.contact Jim a1 1184 or Jim at 277-1494. 2 females live Jan. free' 2 spaces available at N.D. Apt 2D. spacious-only $82/month. Call7129. 7812, or 7570,Lost&Found Roommate wanted. 3 bedroom house Lost Pair of prescription glasses -brown Nk~ neighborhood $80.00 a month plusfra(lles in a beige case .. If found. please util!:!eS. Call after 5:30 287-4733 call Susan at 7978. We rent dependable cars from $7.95 a 'lost: Car Keys on Orange & white key day and 7 cents a mile. Ugly Ducklingchain. Call Sue Knapp-SMC-4554. Rent-A-Car, 921 E. Jef1erson Blvtl. Mishawaka, Ind. 255-2323 Lost: Ti!s MBA Calculator on Monday .. Dec. 17 at 11·.00 am if found. please call Female -roommate needed In Campus 277-5947. View Apt. Uve Jan. free, pay half rent remainder of semester. Call Sue 283­Lost:· My keys, Idesperately need them 3433. Reward Ring mcludes 1purple key. Call Andy 234-6353 One vacancy. 4 man apartment, cami>us -. view'Apartments. Call 2n-1742. Found: Girl's timex watch from last semester hay ride, call J1m 3206 -' Found Girl's ring on South Quad. Call Wanted Brian 3017. Found Gold Bracelet with locket and Need ride to Dayton this Friday_ Call Bob heart ­caH 165q; at 8714..  One day a week German tutor needed. 272-7347. Rommate wanted to share house. 2 mi from campus. Excellent neighborhood $125 mo. Call John 233-6573. Anyone interested in working on John Anderson's presidential campaign for the Mock Convention -Call Larry -1049 Campus Press needs an ambitious person to begin training immediately for produc· tion manager (a paid position) for the 1980·1981 academ1c year. Printing experience helpful but not necessary Apply 1·5 in person basement of LaFortune, under the deli -Wanted Clint Eastwood for sen1or fellow. Need two GA or student tix for DePaul. Call Kathy at 1314. Instructor wanted to teach MCAT class. Gall collect (317) 463-7541 All interested students: Hig~ paying ~~~rt-time jobs on campus _.. you set the ours. Wri1e: Collegiate Press. Box 556. _-Belleville, Mich. 48111 now No obligation. :·For Sale '• ·­,Ramirez Classicai Spanish guitar, fike new, perfectforguitarclass. Offers Mick -8212 Greek Religion books for sale. Call Carol . 3848  sizes. For Sale: schOol 3637 Needed Davidson, Marquette. Help! Carol 277-1365. Paul 3121 state. game Paul 3121 87I 1803  


TechniCS SA-200 receiver, 25 watts, .04THD. purchased right before To everyone who mande any money at $140 Call 8221 The Observer in 1979: There is a W-2 waiting for you in the office .. 
Phonoautograph telephone answering service-needs repair, best offer, Dave Tutors needed: 
1
. 8 yr. old, reading. spelling. math 

2. 
Chinese Adult, English 

3. 
11th yrade,,English, Biology 

4. 
10th grade, English, Biology 

5. 
7 yr. old, Reading


Tickets 
6. 
Student, AIgebra 

7. 
Grade schooI, math, reading, spelling 


4-6 GA basketball tix for To the girl on the South Shore train on Maryland, N.C. state, and Dec. 20 who played with my automore Call Gordon at 3087 
game: Where are you? call 1405 Speed Racer Desperately need DePaul GA's. 
Look out N.D.-S.M.C. yocious the atro­cious is back to hount you. Need GA lix to any home bball game. 
Thanks for the summer party , Sorinites' 
Need 1Davidson ticket 3or more lor N.C. Volunteers needed. 
1. Visit one to one, elderly, mentally
Call Tom 7666 or 289-6543 

retarded and/or paraplegics Need student and Ga tix for DePaul bball 
2. Aid parish in taking church census two week-ends in April. 
Call Dating service. (616) 684-5985 P 0 tiox
Ne~ 4 GA's to Maryland Game. -
204•. Niles. Mi. 49120 
-

Desperately need one Marquette B-ball · Show us your .musical talent-perform at ticket -.·call Bill 277-5779 the SMC, coffee
house! Interested? Call Jean Acton (41 ) 4974 
• :Need 3 ti:kets for. tv:aryland game. ·call 
Clint Eastwood for senior fellow (or 1 rather seniord
ude.) 
=-J 

Sports Briefs'--"·_ ____, 
WisConsin tix on sale now 
Persons interestf':d in purchasing ~ickets for the Feb. 2 and ?hock<:y series against Wisconsin at the ACC should do so 1mmed1ately. At the rate of current sales, the weekend series could be sold out before the week is over. Remaing tickets can be purchased at the Gate 10 ticket windows of the ACC between 9 a:m. and 5 p:m. daily. 
Lacrosse Oub meets today 
• 

The 1980 edition of ~he ~crosse C.lub opens its spring season today With an orgamzauonal meetmg at 4:30p.m. in the ACC Auditorium (C-14). All those who plan to play this semester are required to attend this meeting. If you absolutely cannot make the meeting, call Mike Caron at 288-5108. 
l{owers slate assembly 
Men interested in Crew will assemble to discuss winter land wor~outs and the Florida spring traimng. Expectations will be la1d out on Jan. 25 at 6 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. Contact Paul Devitt (234-5789) if you cannot attend this mandatory assembly. 
Praises Ferragamo 
Bradshaw plans to return nextseason 
LOS ANGELES (AP) ~ Terry Bradshaw, citing reasons of health, said Monday he would return next season as Juaner­back of the Super Bow cham­pion Pittsburgh Steelers. 
And he said that Vince Ferra­gamo should be the starting quarterback for the Los Angeles Rams. 
''I know I talked about retiring after the game,'' Bradshaw said, reflecting back on inter­views after the Steelers' 31-19 triumph Sunday over the Rams. ''But later on I had a meeting with Jack Lambert and Joe Greene,'' he said with a laugh, '~and, considering how impor­rant my health is to me I am definitely going to play for the Pittsburgh Steelers next lear and have officially ende all thoughts of retiring. " 
Bradshaw, who joined former Green Bay Packers juarterback Bart Starr as the o y two-time winner of the Most Valuable Player Award 10 the Super Bowl, completed 14 of 21 passes against the Rams for 309 yards (ony nine yards short of the recor he set in his MVP performance in 1979) and two touchdowns. The IDs were bombs coveriny, 47 yards to Lynn Swann on y 2:48 into the third period and 7 3 yards to John Stallworth at 2:56 of the fourth quarter. 

And after the Steelers h~d' become the only four-time win­
• • • Speedste1; . 
[continued from page 12) 
Hatherly rook the lead at the half mile spot after ducking in behind the early leader. Bartolini made his move to second just while Hatherly breezed into first as they ran away from the pack. 
Adding sup~ort to · P1ane's preseason. opttmism about his middle and long distance runners was Marc Novak, as he destroyed his competition in the two mile event. Novak finished at 9:11.05, over 13 seconds better than his closest compe_titor. Notre Dame's Carl Bicicchi finished fourth. 
Charlie Fox and Matt Cato finished second and third with times of 14:32.46 and 14:33.18 respectively, in the three mile run. Fox lead briefly in the race at about the ten minute mark, but was then passed by eventual winner Tom Bogenschutz of Purdue, and Cato. While Bogenschutz extended his lead, the battle 
ners of the Super Bowl, Brad­shaw spoke about quitting. But Monday, he said he spoke that way only btcause he was so weary. 
"I was tired. Y'know, some-ti!lles after a game you go 
' euher up or down, even when you win," Bradshaw said. "I went down. Yeah, I've talked about retiring and it is going to take three or four months for me to get juiced up again. It's a very draining season. Very demanding. There's the play­offs. The Super Bowl. All of that takes a toll on you. "Right now I'm just tired of football. " ·""l'Ie.. als\> 'acknowledged that it was more difficult to get up for 
Became one for second place between Fox and Cato, with Fox just edging Cato near the wire. · · 
The two-mile relay was also won by Notre Dame but not by the All-America team of Aragon, Miranda, Burger and Macauley. They did not run at the meet, but it did not stop the Irish~ Scott Satko, Kevin Olson Jim Slattery, and Jay Mirand~ 
won the event in 
8:07.13 as they.,....____ 
last runner  just  
before breaking  jay Miranda  
the tape.  
Four  qualifying  heats  were  

held for the 60-yard high hurdles. Irish hurdlers placed 
this Super Bowl game than it was for the Steeler' first cham­pionship appearance, when they beat Minnesota 16-6 10 1975. 
"Like anyone, I think success 
'takes away something. With the success this football team has had, if the challenge isn't there_, ifyou don't have goals, then It loses ifs edge. So it gets 
a little more demanding. You have to reach way down in yourself and say, 'One more year.' 
"But I love this game. It's really a lot of fun to play -but it cerra}~ly has its wear and tear. 
second in three of the tour preliminaries and two of them, Dave Bernards and Bill Ribera, qualified for the finals. In the finals, Berna ds finished fourth with a time of 7. 79 seconds and Ribera finished fifth at 7.96. In other events, the Irish placed three in the top five of the 600-yard. run. Aragon . finished second with a 1:13.03 time, Steve Dziaba~ ended up in third and ) acquc,., Eady had the fifth best time. · 
Rick Rogers took third place in 
gap considerably thanks to a strong final quarter-mile by Eady. 
Ahmad Kazimi placed second in the triple jump VI ith a 44-feet. seven-and-three­quarter-i~ches effort. Team­mate Brian McAuliffe finished third with a jump of 44-feei-, seven-and-a-quarter inches. Both just missed in efforts to overtake the eventual winner, John Kimbrou~h of Indiana State whose wmning distance was 46-fc-c-t, one-.tnd-one­quarter 1 nches. 
In the pole vaul£, Perry Stow of Notre Dam e finished in a tie for second place after clearing the fifteen foot mark. The wmner was Ed Langford of Purdue, as he set a Purdue school rec ord by clearing 16 feet. 
Iovas agood beginning for the Irish as they enter the 1980 indoor season. There were not 
orals kept, so it wasteam !tint t 

a goo chance for coaches Piane and Kelly to evaluate their talent individually. The next challenge£,or the Irish will come on Friday as they host Norrhwestern· and Loyola of Chicago at the ACC at 7:00 p.m. 
squeaked past Purdue's entry. Miranda was the icey to the race as his relay ex­perience and ex­pertise allowed · him to make up time and sur­pass Purdue's 
the~880-yard run with a tilne of 1:) 7.69. Tim Macauley finished close behind in fourth. The Irish mile-relay tf'am finished in third place The team of Chuck Aragon, "rre\e Dziabas, Bill Ribera, and Eady finishedwith a time of 3:23.4), two seconds behind Indiana State's winning team. The Irish fell behind early, but closed the 
..1­


by Pa~tl Mullaney Assistant Sports Editor 
In what Irish coach Mike De Cicco called ''our toughest sea­son-opening contest ever," No­tre Dame came from behind to outduel Clemson, 15-12, in collegiate fencing action yes­terday at the Athletic and Convotation Center. 
It marked the· 106th straight triumph for DeCicco's team, which opened the season in hopes <l its fifth straight un­blemished campaign. Clemson, Atlantic Coast Conference po­wer~,ou~e and strong contender for this year's national champi­onship, ft·JI to B-). 
'There were too many impor­tant bout& to single out any individuals," smiled a relieved DeCicco afterwards. "We had to avoid allowing a couple of their top fencers to have a clean' sweep. We had to stop people like (Steve) Renshaw, Uay Thomas, and (Craig) Vecchione from wiping up.'' 
And when all the action was over, only Thomas, Clemson's All-American epeeist, had won three straight for the Tigers. The Irish, on the other hand, were supported by three-victory 

Frosh Varner anxiously awaits 'lJis turn' 
Frank 
LaGrotta 
Sports Writer 
It's as much a part of the game as cheerleaders, officials and the National As:tthem. The older guys do the playtng while the younger guys, for the most part, sit on the bench, biding their time, smilinE_ for reporters, family and fnends and happily sneaking in some playing time whenever and wherever it comes. ''waiting vour turn'' is what coaches like to 

call it.  
Billy  Varner  calls  it  ''learn­ 
mg.,,  
A  6-6  freshman  on  Digger  
Phelp's squad,  Varner  has  ac­ 

cumulated only 79 minutes of action thus far this season; a statistic that bothered him at fir.st--as one might expect. 
"I just wasn't used to not playing," he admits after a typical two-hour practice session. ''When we played Villanova and I didn't get in the game, that was the first time in my life that happened to me.·' 
Which is easy to believe when you look ~this credentials. An all-state selection bt both 

thd Associated Press and United Press International, 
the. NewlKensington,
nauve•averaged 27 
l 5 rebounds and five 
games as a senior at 
School. He-wa~ 
most valuable Cicco. ''Nobody can beat us if we keep this quality of perfor­by BillMarquard mance. Sports Wn.ter 

''There was a lot of pressure on us this week. Too many How do you spell relief? For the Notre Dame Wrestling 
[continued on page 101 
team, the rwo mo.:t nlloular 
prestigious 
tournaments as the Colt Classic. the 
Pennsylvania Bil!. 11 
Classic and the Dapper Dan Classic where he first cam,. to ~ltention of the Notre. coachin2 $taff. · we saw what Billy could 
the basked,all court, we knew wanted him atI Notre Dame," points: out assistant coach, Scott'Thomps~~. ''Everything 
Penn. points. assists a l Valley High named the· player at such 

about hiS ga~e impressed .US--h.isJ
shoormg, hal­handlin~ skills and his uncandy knacf· 
. of bein~e arOiiricf" · the::, hasektl)~'li espec1ally on ·. the offen§tVe boards.' • · So Varner came to Notre Dame after turning 
down r>ffers from 
.suchschools as! 1 Marquette ,\Pitt Penn State Univ­
' ~r;sitv to n~m<" hnt a fn\' · 
"1 just liked everythmg about the place. •· Yarn-net remembers. "And I'm saris-
tied with my choice fied with my choice. I know it's the right place for me. 
"And I'm not gonna transfer." 
On that one you can almost hear Digger breathe a sigh of relief •· 
"~ey, Billy Var­ner 15 :t· supPr basketball player and whether 
it looks like it right nnw or not,. decisions, while 134-pound tri-­
he is makine  ·  a valuable  con­ 
tribution to our  team,'.'  empha­ 
sizes Digger. remembc. tha, he. When Toby i-~nigbt he rlave.-1 -"1 minutes season ]Cl i1e matured good player for us and I to tell you what he's the K-nicks. We expect play more of a role as he\. exoerience and then grad­ "you have to is a freshman. a freshman .the entire into a very don't have doing with Billy to Jrets more ualfy take  
his place in the 'line-up.  
"But I' II tell you this  
Billy Varner is gonna help  

basketball team before this 
over.''· 
"I know I need more work defense,'' admits· Varner who smiles when it's suggested that defense is only something. that high school phenoms play to 
[continued on page 10) 

vanauons are W-A-B-A-S-H 
and M-1-L-L-I.K-1-N. 

Exhausted after a pre­
semester schedule in which 
they wrestled seven teams in a 
nine-day l?eriod with rwo-a-day 
practices ,n between, the Irish 
wrestlers enjoyed a much-
n(,.. ~:..i break, posting two de­1 iSIVt' Wins in a triangular meet at the A.C.C. last weekend. 
'· vur performance this week­end was undoubtedly a good sign," enthused Irish coach Ray Sepeta. ''The team really did a super job.'' 
Sepeta's satisfaction was the result of a 29-9 decision over Wabash and a 43-5 drubbing of Millikin. victories which raised Notre Dame's season mark to 4-8. 
Not only did those wins im­prove the team's record. but their morale as well. 
"We were trying not to get too discouraged. but things just wouldn't fall into place be­fore.'· explained Sepeta. "It iooks like we have found a winning combination, not only as mdividuals but as a team. 
"It was a big step toward building our confidence." 
The Irish won 15 of the 20 matches they wrestled (includ­ing four pins), and tied two of the remaming five. 
Freshman Mark Fisher was one of five Notre Dame double-winners, recording a pin at 3:21 and a forfeit. Sophomore Curt Rood notched clutch 9-2 and 3-2 
captain ,Dave DiSabato decked one adversary in 4:48 and won by forfeit in his second match. 
Tri-captain Mike Wilda(158) clicked on a pair of decisions, 11-4 and 11-2, while sophomore John Iglar (177) clinched a pair by 4-3 and 11-3 counts. 
Notre Dame's other two pins were recorded by freshman Mike Mills (142) at 2:41 and senior heavyweight Tom Wrob­lewski at 1:16. Mills posted a 4-4 draw in his other match, 
while  Wroblewski  was  a  4-3  
victim.  
Seniors Chris  Favo  and  Dr.  

Dave Welsh split the chores at 150, the former notching a 5-1 victory and the latter battling to a 4-4 draw. 
Freshman newcomer Greg Lezynsk.i split for the day, winning 10-7 and losing 10-5. ) unior Maurice Beshlian re­
gistered an identical record, 
winning by forfiet and dropping 
a frustrating 10-1 match. 
The Irish face perennial foe John Carroll University in Cleveland on Saturday. The Blue Streaks hold an 8-5 edge in the all-time series, including a 36-9 drubbing by Carroll at Notre Darrie last winter. 
''I'm just a bit apprehensive 
going into this weekend," ad­
mitted Sepeta. ''A couple 
weeks ago I though we had an 
excellent chance of beating 
them, but with the injuries 
we've had and the exhausing 
schedu!t:. it could be a real 
close match." 

If Sepera has his way, the Insh 
can start spelling victory next 
weekend J_(j_H-N C-A-R­
R-0-L-L 

Speedster peiformance 
satisfies Piane 
byJolm Smith Sports Wnter 
WEST LAF A YETIE -In their 
first track meet of the season, 
the Irish put on an admirable 
performance in the Purdue 
Invitational Tournament 
Saturday. Coach Joe Piane and 
Assistant Ed Kelly travelled 
here to Lambert Fieldhouse 
with approxi,mately 35 of their 
ream members to get an early 
look at their own strengths and 
weaknesses. In addition, they 
went to compete against other 
major colleges from the state of 
Indiana. 

" l'm pleased; we accom­
plished what we set out to do, '' 
commented a satisfied Piane 
after his athletes collected three 
first place finishes along with a 
bundle of fine performances. 
Perhaps the strongest Irish 
showing was in the mile run in 
which Notre Dame's Tony 
Hatherly and Also Bartolini 
fought it out to the finish to see 
who would be the ~champ. 
Hatherly won. in a time of 
4: 17.24 with Bartolini just :00.21 seconds tbehind. 
lco_ntinued on page 11) 





