, , , French films -page 7 
VOLUME XV NUMBER 49 TUESDAY* NOVEMBER 4, 1980 
Off-catnpus critne: Militants 
•
The residents' vie-w gtve up 
Hdttor'.r Note: Although violent mines have de~·reased as the weather gets wider, 
hostages
off-campu.r crime on the whole is still painfully evident to Notre Dame .rtttdents living in So11th Refl(l. In thefollowiftg three-part .reries, The 0 bserverexamine.r the pmbkms ofthe Northeast Neighborhoodfrom different viewpoint.r -from th£• a!lgle ofthe South Btmd admimstration, the So11th Bmd Police Department, By The Associated Pr£'SS a!ld the local resident.r, both permanmt and tramient. Today: part one, the Iranian militants met with restdmt.r. Iranian leader Ayatollah Ruhol­
By Mary Fran Callahan lah Khomeini yesterday and Senior Staff Reporter turned over "responsibility" lor their ~2 American captives to the 
His apartment abounded in comfort. Plush couches sat tastefully government. U.S. officials, who on plush carpeting. Paintings hung from the walls; plants, from the are considering Iranian terms fo( ceiling. Draperies gracefully covered a wall ofglass doors, which led their release, said the develop­to a balcony. There was a bar offine wood with a neat row ofmatching ment was encouraging. barstools. And of course, a stereo with speakers four-feet high "We will from now on delegatl' occupied center stage of the living room. responsibility for the (hostages') 
"I carry a knife when I walk home at night," the apartment's safeguarding to the government occupant commented. "And since the semester started, I've pulled it and will engage in the most twice just walking home from the library," he added. important current issue of the 
Off-campus assaults robberies and beatings no longer auto­revolution, defense of the matically appear on The Obseroer's front pages. Like a major city's Islamic homeland," Tehran seemingly callous attitude towards crime, Notre Dame's off-campus Radio quoted a statement from squirmishes are fast becoming an inevitable part of the status quo. the militants as saying. The mili­
Students and residents living in the city's northeast neighborhood tants were referring to Iran's have indeeda~·cepted crime as a consequence for living in the area. One current border war with Iraq. need only walk up and down Notre Dame Avenue to see the Plans for the physical transfer prentutions which have been taken. Billyclubs and baseball bats sit of the hostages will be worked next to front doors; windows have safety locks on them. Guns are out following a "meeting before· rumored to sit in bureau drawers and knives line quite a few Levi's midnight" (3:30 p.m. ES1) be­pockets. tween the government and the 
"I've given rides home to people at night. And when you're off-One ofthe many hopefuls who tn'ed out last night for the Notre militants, officials of the IranianDame Student Players production of ''pippin''. ')'photo by 
prime minister's office reported. 
[continued on page 3] Greg Maurer] 
The militants' statement said the government during that meeting would "introduce (their) representative for deliv­
ery of the American spies." The aides to the prime min­



Reagan, Carter await the outcome 
By Do!lald M. Rothberg AP Political Wrrter 
WASHINGTON-Their long, sometimes bitter campaign over, President Carter and Ronald Reagan are reduced to the role of the average citizen. Today, on the first anniversary of the takeover ofthe U.S. Embassy in Iran, they could only vote and wait. 
Carter was returning to his Plains, Ga., home to cast his ballot, and Reagan was at his oceanfront house in Los Angeles. 
After months of Reagan's harping on Carter's handling of the economy and the president's hints that Reagan could start a war, the final days of their campaign were dominated by swiftly moving events in Tehran that encouraged speculation that the ordeal of the ~2 American hostages soon may end. 
No one could say how those events would affect the outcome of the presidential race, and the candidates reacted cautiously. 
"Don't know yet," was the president's response on Monday when asked ifhe was encouraged by the news that the Iranian militants holding the hostages had agreed to relinquish custody to the Iranian government. 
Referring to the hostages in an election eve address for which his campaign purchased time on the three television networks, Reagan said, "Like you, there is nothing I want more than their safe return-that they be re­turned with their families after this long year ofimprisonment." 
Another unpredictable factor in the presidential race was in­dependent candidate John B. Anderson, who insisted on Monday, despite polls showing him far behind the others, that there could be "dramatic shifts" to his candidacy on Election Day. 
Carter, concerned that Anderson is more likely to draw support from him than from Reagan, appealed Monday to dissident Democrats to recon­sider any plans to vote for Anderson. The president said he and the Illinois congressman have goals "very close" on such issues as energy conservation and controlling the spread ofnuclear weapons. 
. Then he added, "I ask you to consider the consequences to your lives if you should wake up Wednesday morning and find a new administration ready to take over the Oval Office, not com­mitted to these goals." 
During a long day campaign­ing in Ohio, Illinois, Michigan, Missouri, Washington and Oregon, Carter coupled his ap­peals to potential Anderson voters with sharp attacks on Reagan. 
"You can rewrite the lines in the movie industry and you can rewrite the lines in the history of some businesses, but there's no way to wipe out 20 years of right­wing Republicanism exemplified by Governor Reagan," he said. 

In a last-minute schedule change, Carter dropped plans for a closing-day campaign stop in California and added an appear­
ister said Algeria was delegated to ance in Detroit. Aides denied the from the local level to the White handle talks with Washington change meant the president was House. and the captives' release if the writing off Reagan's home state The key to victory for Reagan U.S. government meets Iran's and its 45 electoral votes. or for Carter appeared to rest demands. They said that in the 
More than 80 million inthe verdict ofclosely contested meantime Iran will continue to Americans were expected to industrial states in the Midwest, have custody of the hostages, vote, their ballots deciding con­and both men made final bids for tests for thousands of offices support there. [continued on page 3J 
The tables are turned 
Bigwig 's capture ires Iranians 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP)-Iraq refused to free Iran's oil minister yesterday and said Iran's com­plaint that his battlefield capture violated international law sound­ed odd coming from a country that has held ~2 Americans hos­tage for a year. 
The Iraqis said they held Iran's oil minister Mohammed Jawad Baquir Tunguyan and five senior aides here and shunned an Iranian pledge to invoke "all in­ternational codes and regula­tions" for his release. 
"They were ambushed and kidnapped ... and taken to Iraqi territory," said a statement by Iran's Prime Minister Moham­mad Ali Rajai. 
Iraqi officials pointed to the occupied U.S. Embassy in Tehran as an answer to Iranian complaints about the illegality of the capture and noted that Tungayan and his aides are prisoners of war. 
Iraq said one ofits patrols cap­tured Tunguyan, 30, outside the besieged city of Abadan on Friday. Abadan has been shelled 

daily since the war began Sep­aggressors ... had infested" the tember 22. The Iraqis claim to Zolfaqar district but were "to­. surround the city. tally annihiliated and their pos­
Both sides reported sharp itions destroyed." A war fighting yesterday at Abadan, communique asserted Iranian Iran's last stronghold on the troops pushed back by several Shatt al-Arab waterway and the miles Iraqis trying to block source of 60 percent of its re­southern roads to the city. fined oil before the 43-day-old 
war began. Pars said yesterday I ran ian 
Abadan was the target of a warplanes bombed Iraq's "delu­fresh weekend drive by the Iraqis ded mercenaries" near the who threw a mobile bridge across Bahmanshir River. the Bahmanshir River and stormed up its eastern river bank Iran, issuing a flurry of dis­into the outlying Zolfaqar dis-patches and communiques trict. claiming smashing war victories, 
Iran's news agency Pars ad-has made such claims several mitted that "Iraqi mercenary times before. 


·-------------·-------------· 

~ Don 't be a slouch ~· VOTE! 
\} 
ND. . Stepan Center 
SMC . Augusta Hall 

[ 
~ 


News Brieb 

Tuesday, November 4, 1980-page 2 
c===~~======~======================================
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
A Notre Dame professor of philosophy and logic, Dr. Boleslaw Sooocinski, died Sunday • after a long illness. He was 74. Sobocinski was the founder of the Notre DameJournal ofFormal Logic. Born in Leningrad in 1906, Sobocinski taught atWarsaw University in Poland before coming to the United States in 1949. He served as director of the Institute ofApplied Logic in St. Paul, Minn., before coming to teach at Notre Dame. Sobocinski retired from teaching in 1975. but continued to edit the Notre DameJournal ofFormal Logic. AP 
Contracts totaling $2,088,166 
have been let for the reconstruction and expansion of Saint Edward's Hall, Notre Dame's oldest dormitory that was severely damaged by a June 25 fire. The general contractor is Casteel Construction Co.; mechanical, United Heating and Plumbing; electrical, Koontz-Wagner Electrical; temperature controls, Havel Bros., Inc, and windows, Mon-Ray Corpor­ation. 
The hall, built in 1882, will be physically upgraded in the historical restoration, and a addition will enable it to house 187 stud~:nts, compared with 134 before the fire. University officials hope to have the reconstruction finished by the start ofclasses in the fall of 1981. -The Observer 
A 9-year-old boy whowaseitherstrangledor 'mothered has become the 11th black child murdered in Atlanta in the last 16 months -and the first since the city mounted an all-out campaign to find the killer, police said yesterday. Four other black children have disappeared during that time in a series of unsolved crimes that Public Safety Commissioner Lee Brown called "the worst thing that has ever happened in Atlanta." After the body ofa ninth child was found in early October, the city began to try to find the person or persons responsible. Officers began going door-t<rdoor in certain neighborhoods questioning residents, and weekend crews of volunteers undertook searches of areas where authorities thought the missing children might be found. The commissioner said a 25-member special task force investigating the deaths would be increased to 35 members and said officers would be specially assigned to patrol neighborhoods when children are about. An 11 p.m. curfew for children under 15 is already in effect. 
The Suoreme Courtsaid yesterday it wm decide whether the nation's public schools and colleges must pay for interpreters to help deafstudents in their classwork. In a case that could significantly affect the educational oppor­tunities of handicapped persons, the court will study a University of Texas attempt to avoid such expenses. A federal appeals court said the university was obligated under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to pay for Walter Camenisch's classroom interpreter. The law prohibits all programs and <tctivities receiving federal aid from discriminating against any ·'otherwise qualified handicapped individual." That would include all public schools and most private colleges and universLies. The handicapped rights case dates back to 1978, when Camenisch was working toward his master's degree in education at the Austin, Texas, campus. He sued the university, and U.S. DistrictJudgeJack Roberts ordered the university to pay for an interpreter for Camenisch. The 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld Robert's ruling, distinguishing 
·Camenisch's case from a 1979 Supreme Courtdecision that said handicapped persons have no legal right to attend schools if rhey cannot meet the phsyical qualifications. 
Actor Robert Redford has sent a 
telegram to U.S. Representative Dan Quayle protesting the use of his name and photographs in connection with Quayle's campaign to unseat U.S. Senator Birch Bay h. Ina telegram sent through Warner Communications Inc. in New York on Friday, thefilm star noted that Quayle has been referred to throughout the campaign as the GOP's answer to Robert Redford. "I have read articles on the 1980 Indiana Senate race where you are described as my 'look alike,"' the telegram said. "After comparing your record with that of Senator Birch Bayh, it is' clear to me that I am much more supportive of Bayh's views than yours'," the telegram continued. "I therefore find the connection with your campaign particularly insidious." 
Mostly cloudyand breezy with a 5o percent ch;mce ofrain. High today in the high to mid 50's, low tonight in the low 40's. Southernly winds 15-20 m.p.h. · 
Inside Tuesday 


'Museum,' worth looking into 
With the dedication of Notre Dame's Snite ••••••••••••• 
Museum ofArt only a few days away, we can't help but note an article authored by University President Rev. Theodore Hesburgh in the November/December issue of Museum Magazine. 
Hesburgh tells the story ofFrederick Snite, the 1933 Notre Dame grad and polio victim who "drew on deeply held religious covictions for equanimity in adversity." It was Frederick's father, the late Colonel Fred B. Snite, that put forth $2 million for the construction of the new museum and "to keep alive the inspiring memory of Frederick." 
But while we note Hesburgh's article, we must call attention to the magazine itself. After only its first five issues, Museum has already drawn rave reviews from critics across the country. You may wonder how a magazine on a subject such as museums may be so successful in such a short period oftime?Just look at the people behind the operation. 
The publisher, Jules Warshaw, is no rookie to the magazine business. He has created over 60 titles for newsstand sale. He was once owner­publisher of Status and Diplomat magazines, publisher ofHoliday, and director ofpublishing for the Saturday Evening Post Company. 
Warshaw, in turn, has attracted many of his cohorts from the Saturday _Evening Post to join his venture into the exploration of museums. Atop the list ofexperienced editorial board members is Frederic A. Birmingham, the editor-in-chief with over 40 years of author/editor experience. 
Before reviving the Post as editor, Birmingham was highly respected for his editorial work with Esquire, Time, and Reader's Digest, as well as for authoring many best-selling novels. 
"He's the grand old man of American jour­nalism-undisputedly so," insists Managing Editor Thomas ]. O'Neil, who worked at the Indianapolis Star and the Post after serving as editor­in-chief of The Observer in 1976-77. "His presence here has a lot to do with our success thus far." 
Itis clear as to whyMuseum has gottenoffto such a rousing start. The publishing business is far and away a "people business." And this magazine has the people behind it. 
But why a magazine on museums? 
"Did you ever stop and realize that a half-billion people a year visit museums?" asks O'Neil. "And that nearly every major magazine around the country features museums of some sort on a 

Desig11 Edt~or, ... , Ryan Ver Berkmoes De.rig11 Assi.rto11tJ, . , , , , , Eileen Murphy Jeanne Laboe Ron Haynes Maura Murphy Diane Mazurek Dov Techm'cia11 , , , ...... Bruce Oaklev Night Technkio11 .. , ... , .. Tina Terlaak Neu•.r Edt~or ..... , .... , Margie Brassill Copy Editor . . , . , ....... , Fran Cackley Typirt, . " . " " " . , " ... Suzy Selentic Typist . .... , . , . , . "--.. , Suzy Selentic -~J'Jfems Techmda11.,, . , .. Tim Debelius Do)• Edttor., ... ,.,.,.".,,. Barb Biel Photographer, .. ,.,., ... ,. Greg Maurer  
Thl Obatrver (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exain and vacation periods, The Observer Is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Obaerver, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, The Observer Is a mem bar of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved,  

Paul 

Mullaney 
Editor-in-chief 


somewhat regular basis? Well, those people who founded this magazine realized that there was no one magazine that hit smack in the middle of the museum trade." 
O'Neil also indicated that magazines originating in the last decade all seemed to be aimed at a specific trade. Three years ago, when the idea was first discussed, it was believed that a world-wide interest in museums would give a museum maga­zine great promise. 
"After the days of the King Tut exhibition, the whole attitude toward museums around the country really ballooned," O'Neil says. "That helped to enforce our opinion ofhow this type of magazine could really be successful." 
Museum Magazine is currently circulating 120,000 copies-a figure that company representatives hope to have tripled by the end of next year. 
And .that figure is sure to grow, as potential readers around America realize that the magazine is notas drab as its title may imply. Museum features an interesting blend of museum critique, fine photography, colorful science fiction and editorial humor. Just look at the lineup of commissioned writers hired by Museum-Walter Cronkite, Mary Renault,JuliaChild, OrsonWelles, Red Smith, Art Buchwald. And that is in addition to the maga­zine's own staff of quality editor/writers. 
"We're working hard to attract quality writing through big names," says O'Neil. "And we've gotten a lot of support from these people." 
Someday soon the magazine may be receiving national support through newsstand sales. For now, however, Museum Magazine is available in 80 museums in more than 30 states, or by direct mail. Subscriptions are $15 per year (six issues), and can be obtained by writing to the magazine's cir­culation offices, P.O. Box 1300, Berenfield, N.J. 07621. 

Observer Notes. ____ 
The Observer news department has announced the promotion of five of its reporters in the last week. Sophomore Tim Vercellotti has been promoted to senior staff reporter, and junior Mary Agnes Carey and freshmen Dave Rickabaugh, Davi4 Sarphie, Mike O'Brien and Anne Jane Dregalla were promoted to the position of staff reporter. 
CELEBRATION/RIVER CITY 
Proudly Presents 

In Concerti 
Sunday, November 30 • 8:00p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium •south Bend 
Tickets: $9.00/$8.00; all seats reserved ­on sale this Saturday at 10:00 a.m. at River City Records, 50970 u.s. 31 North1. Limit 1otickets per person. 
(Tickets not available at Morris Civic Box Officel)1 

The Observer Tuesday, November 4, 1980-page 3 
• • . Crim.e 

[continued from page 1) 
campus, the standard conversation starts 'have you been broken into yet?"' an off-campus student commented, laughing slightly, then sobering quickly. 
"We got broken into once. Now we have a gun, and ifwe have to use it we won't hesitate," a student said. 
His housemate interjected, "There is just so much tension in the neighborhood." Well then, do off-campus students live in a state of fear? 
"Let's just say we're always cautious," a student responded. "I've seen strangers wandering around, so now we all keep the doors locked even when we're home" another student commented. 
Several weeks ago, a lone assailant broke into a house, robbed it and assaulted an occupant while eight people slept in the house. The thief fled with an expensive camera. In short, these criminals have guts. 
Ifstudents are forced to arm themselves with everything from steel locks to baseball bats, one might assume local residents equally fear victimization, but on the whole, the opposite is true. 
"I don't fear the blacks (sic} at all," a 25-year Notre Dame Avenue resident commented, "but who I fear are the drunken students going home late at night. They'll knock on my door at four in the morning and want to use the bathroom," she said. 
She further explained that students have vandalized her when denied bathroom priviledges. Recently, poles supporting her porch, were removed-an act the resident attributes to Notre Dame students. The porch restoration cost $117. 
"I can't afford that type of expense," she commented. 
A resident down .the street shared her sentiments, "I object to having over half a dozen taverns within two and half blocks of my house," the thirty-year neighborhood veteran commented. "All those taverns are not conducive to the well-being ofthe students. You cannot believe how drunk they get," the resident said. 


A faculty member who resides in the neighborhood also agreed with the city residents. 
"There is so much stupid behavior among the students. They are an occasion for crime," he said. He also cited the procession home of those "under the influence" at dawn, as a neighborhood nuisance. 
The resident also intimated that students do not act responsibly. "They have parties and don't screen the guests. Some party goers case the houses and then come back later for the loot," he said. He contends that crime is directed primarily at the students. 
A local resident of 20 years also believes crime is targeted at students. Speculating why, the resident commented, 1'The lower­clas..<; neighborhood kids see Notre Dame as something they can never have even though it's in their backyard. Itmight be jealousy but the students are definitely prey. You can't put $5000 worth ofstereo­equipment in a house and not expect the folks around the corner to be slightly envious." · 
Not all residents, however, believe students are the sole targets of crime. One resident believes crime, like a persistent enemy, is an cvitable part of the Northeast Neighborhood. 
"There's a baby Mafia working the streets," he said. 
The resident declined to explain how he could support such a statement but confidently added, "That's why the juveniles are always the ones on the streets. Ifthey get caught, they can't be busted. The people at the top know when somebody's too old to' work the streets," the resident contended. 
Crime apparently is spreading from hearth to office, for now businesses say they are feeling the effects of yesterday's assaults. "I believe all the businesses are being affected, and it's getting [continued on page 5] 


The new Bruce Springsteen album, "The River" has arrived at River City Records! 
Get $1.00 off any Springsteen aloum or tape with ND/SMC i.d. ­now until Nov. 10! 
And register to win 2 good tickets to the sold out Nov. 20 Springsteen concert at Rosemont Horizon in Chicago. Enter at River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North. Call 277-4242 for further information. 

• • . Iran 

[continued from page lJ 
who will "remain where they are," presumably meaning the 
U.S. Embassy in Tehran. 
In Washington, White House press secretary Jody Powell said the transfer "will be a very positive sign," and presidential aide Jack Watson, interviewed on ABC-TV's "Good Morning America," called the transfer plans "a very positive develop­ment." 
Representatives of the Islamic militants who seized the American Embassy and its staff last Nov. 4, 366,days ago, met for two hours today with Khomeini following the approval Sunday by the Majlis, Iran's parliament, of terms for th~ release of the Americans. 
Flute concert 
features 

new mustc• 
A recent arrangement of a previously unpublished work by Claude Debussy will be featured during a flute concert by Lisa Funston-Mahoney at 8:15 p.m. tomorrow night in the Library Auditorium. The Department of Music faculty recital is open to the public without charge, Department chairman William Cerny will be the principal pianist 
t t
Applications are now available in
t t
the S.U. offices for the SPRING 1981 
t t 
t Student MOVIE LOTTERY t 
Union
t t t t
*Return completed applications to the
t t
S.U. secretary by 4 p.m., Friday, Nov. 14 

t • 



Student Legal Services 
BASEMENT NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL ______~ LEGAL AID AND DEFENDER ASSOCIATION RoomB-12 283-7795 9-4:30 
I-----other times by appointment ----t 


The Observer 

Tuesday, November 4, 1980 -page4 

I. 
River City Records & Jam Productions Present 


Special Guest 

TALAS 
Thursday, November 6 • 8 p.m. Notre Dame ACC 

Tickets: $8.50 reserved seats still availableat the ACC Box Office and River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North-3 miles north of campus. 
River City Records & Jam Productions Present 
AN EVENING WITH 


They really are efficient 
. 




Macrae credits Japan's economy 
Norman Macrae, Deputy Ed­itor of The Economist, a her­alded London-based publica­tion, -S{>oke yesterday at the Memonal Library Auditorium. As the third part of the I.T. T. sponsored Key Issues Lecture Series, "]apan and the United States in a Turbulent World: Myths and Reality," this parti­cular topic centered on ''Les­sons from the Japanese Experi­ence.'' 
Reviewing America's atti­tudes toward the Japanese economy, Macrae scoffed at the notion of the Japanese exonomic system as ''The Fra­gile Flower,'' so progulamated by National Security Advisor Zbig Brzezhinski in the six­ties. Macrae's comment that drew loud applause from the more than 100 spectators gath­ered. 
Macrae remarked that the West can no longer underrate the economic status of Japan as that country now possesses a per capita Gross National Product extremely close to that of the United States (if not indeed greater than the U.S.). 
The positive indicators of the exomonic .status of Japan are reflecting a life expectancy rate which surpasses the U.S. and an infant mortality rate which is half of that of America. Another plus acquired through this system is an educational system superior to its Ameri­can counterpart and a crime rate much lower than that of the United States. 
Macrae pointed to. the ''relentless daily productivity hunt.'' The Japanese take pride in producing fault-free products and in competing with their rival companies in obtain­ing "the lowest defect rate" possible. 


In relating government's role in the economy, Macrae quoted. a high-ranking Japanese offi­cial. 
''The prime m1mster says 'This is our consensus.' He is not very precise either. But action can then be taken in line with that unprecies concensus with everybody feeling he has had some say in what is being done.· The consequence is that in Japan every decision is mediocre. Execution is then excellent.'' 
Macrae continued by relat­ing a 1979 report given by the 
U.S. Comptroller General. 
'']apan encourages its strong industries; the United States protects its weak ones.'' 
\ 

In dealing with the' foreign technological growth, Macrae stated that the Ministry of Industry sees to it that non­Japanese technology "is bought at the lowest possible price.'' 
''The Japanese have been early to recognize that the ideal size for a profit center--by which I mean group of friends working together towards the same objective--is very small, probably not more than 7 to 11. . . Similarly down on the assembly lines. . . teams of skilled engineers swarm all over the largely automated assembly lines, intent on in­creasing the flow of fault~free cars or appliances. 
''I think that it is a great thing that a mighty commercial power has been built up in the world without a military estab­lishment''were Macrae's words in expressing Japan's growth with that of the United States.' 
Friday, November 14 • 8:00 p.m. Notre Dame ACC 

Tickets: $9.00/$8.00 all seats reserved. Good seats still available at the ACC Box Office and River City Records, 509-70 U.S. 31 North -3 miles north of campus 


1.00 OFF! 
any regular album or tope purchase with this coupon. Limit 1 per person. Expires 
Nov. 30, 1980 
This Wednesday and Every Wednesday... 

ND/SMC SPECIAL 
Pitcher of Beer $2.00 
Pitcher of Pop $.75 

PIZZA KING NORTH 
U.S. 31 North Roseland Across From Big "C" Lumber 


Car~Out Dial272·6017 
OPEN EVERY DAY 
MON. -THURS.  11:00 ·12:00  
FRI. & SAT.  11:00.  1:00  
SUN.  4:30-11:00  

Us For Your Pizza P 

• • .... 2 :.tl "' llo II # .o A .. ~ II oil I 1 • • t o o t o • o • • • • • • .o • • "' 10 • • • • o " • 
The Observer Tuesday, November 4, 1980 -page 5 


His master may be sleeping, butFido 's ready to nm. [Photo by Greg Maurer] 
• • . Crime 

(continued from page 3} 
worse, " a local bar owner-who has watched the neighborhood for 20 years from the vantage point of a bartender-commented. 
"I don't see anybody walking anymore. Homeowners are afraid to go out,"· he said. "It's all out of hand. The whole Northeast Neighborhood is going down. It seems like the whole place is just open territory for people to come inand rob, mug and assault. What's going to happen is somebody's going to get killed soon," the bar­owner concluded. 
Not everyone feels that way. 
"Ifyou read the crime reports, you'll see we have a real good record as far as this section of the city goes," Arthur Quigley, a spokesman for the Northeast Neighborhood Center commented. 
Quigley further said that crime. is not escalating in the area; it is simply "getting more publicity." Nevertheless, the Center, which has been in existence for over a decade, is taking an active role in the crime problem. Periodic meetings with students are just a segment of the organization's line of activities. 
Stressing cooperation, Quigley said the organization encourages students to get acquainted with their neighbors and assume responsible attitudes as members of a community. 
"I'm not speaking against students but they're not used to living as 
Born-again art 


Festival experiences renaissance 
by Ann Hesburgh StaffReporter 

CONTEMPORY Arts Com­mission~r Bi_ll Lawle~, saying at a meeung 10 Mornssey Hall yesterday that ''the Senior Arts Festival is much too important an activity to be cancelled,'' announced that the Festival will be held this year after all. 
In an Observer article that appeared three weeks a~o, ~wier was quoted as "consld­enng cancelling the Senior Arts Festival due to the Class of '81's apparent lack of inter­est in the event." But as of yesterday Lawler assured the group that the ·Festival will be held the week of February Uth thru February 20th. The Festival will include drawings, paintings, and photo displays as well as live concert and drama performances. 
Lawler continued by saying, "The Festival enables seniors to display various works and talents, and in turn, have their 

neighbors in a neighborhood. They're not always as careful as they should be," Quigley said. 
And what about weapons? 

"Foolish," says Quigley. "They (students) are not well trained to use them. Almost all weapons in the criminal element are stolen from honest people," he affirmed. 
"Crime is not a very productive thing to be working on. There are serious social and economic problems in the neighborhood," Quigley contended. 
Crime is paramount, however, to Paul Riehle, student body president. "It's just a matter of time. I'm sure there will be a death within the year," Riehle recently stated. 
In an effort to combat crime, Riehle has expressed an interest in establishing a student neighborhood with University-owned houses and apartments, leased to students. 
Meanwhile, crime continues. One resident summarized the helplessness attitude of the Northeast Neighborhood's inhabitants. Asked ifhe lived in a state offear, the elderly resident slowly nodded his head and pointed to his solid mahogany, beautifully finished door. On the door, two thick steel locks and a mounted silver chain contrasted sharply against the fine wood. 
The resident just smiled sadly and said, "What else can you do?" 
works enjoyed by others.'' 
A Saint Mary's Festival Rep­
resentative will be added to the 
'81 Festival Committee. Com­. mittee members from both Saint Mary's and Notte Dame can then work to make this year's Festival as successful as the 1979 and 1980 Festivals. 
At the meeting, Lawler stressed the need ofr senior participation. "It's the enthu­siasm and cooperative effort of the Senior Class that will determine the success of this year's Festival." 
As yet, neither the Festival Chairperson or committee chairpersons have been chos­en. Applications are still being acceeted and can be submitted to Bdl Lawler in the Student Union. Further information regarding the Festival can be obtained by calling Lawler at 7757. 

'Howard mass honors the hungry 
Tomorrow night at 10 p.m. there will be a celebration of the Eucharist "in memory of those who hunger," in the Howard Hall Chapel. All those who fast are especially invited to attend. 

-----•!ACCOUNTING MAJORS1---•• 
. Are you wondering whether to join an accounting firm where you will work closely with engagement partners or a large national firm with International scope and Influence? 
Main Hurdman & Cranstoun 
Invites you to join both. 
Main  Hurdman  &  Cranstoun,  a  
founding  member  of  Klynveld  
Main  Goerdeler,  one  of  the  
largest  public  accounting  

organizations in the world, offers diverse client engage­ments and all the opportuni­ties for accelerated profes­sional growth that a young accountant could ask for. With practice offices in 81 
u.s. cities and 70 foreign countries, Main Hurdman & 
Cranstoun has all the research capabilities, coordinated mar­keting strengths, and compre­hensive educational programs of an international firm, 
while providing  all  the  ad­ 
vantages  -close  client  con­ 
tact,  frequent  partner/staff  

interaction, informal working atmosphere, and rapid advance­ment to positions of respon­sibility-today's professionals seek. 


Main Hurdman & Cranstoun Invites you to explore the best of both worlds. 
STUDENT RECEPTION IN THE ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
PLACEMENT OFFICE SIGN-UP 
UNIVERSITY CLUB 
NOVEMBER 13th & 14th
WEEK OF NOVEMBER 3rd 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12th 7:00 P.M.






·I I 
Main Hurdman&Cranstoun 
------~---~ -~------~~-~-~~­

~~----~------. 
: 


Editorials 
Tuesday, November 4, 1980 -page 6 
Single issues and multiple mistakes 


Ronald Reagan. Is that really a respectable way 
a philosopher to make an rgument in ethics? and a homist at that? Is it enough to "feel" that a 'single issue ... takes precedence over all others?" Isn't a philo­sopher required to review the other issues so as to show (ifit can 
e shown) that the abortion issue, as it is actually presented to the voter, is entitled to such !precedence? · How is the voter confronted hy the abortion issue today? Ifhe votes for Ronald Reagan, he votes for one who will probably try to cut off welfare payments
! 
by E.A. Goerner 

In an article ironically entitled "The Christian Menace" in the latest issue of Scholastic, Prof. Ralph Mcinerny of the Philo­sophy Department writes on the abortion issue in a way that, al­though superficially directed at the inconsistencies ofsecular hu­manists and Catholic liberals like 
Msgr. Geo~ge.Higgi~s, is an at­tempt to vmdtcate, m the week before the election, a single-issue electoral judgment in favor of Ronald Reagan because of his stand against abortion. What is especially unsettling about his ,trticle is one's perception that the abortion issue has become so emotionally charged that it can becloud the usually lucid mind of Prof. Mcinerny so deeply as to lead him to publish such a pa­tently fallacious piece. To avoid misunderstandings let me say that 1) I am opposed to abortion and think it should be outlawed, as it was until recently, and 2) I think Prof. Mcinerny is fair in criticizing secular hu­manists (or, rather some of them) for an important incon­sistency. But it is simply false to think that either of those points gives any particular support whatever to the political conclusion Prof. Mcinerny tries to rest on them. Let me quote his concluding par­agraph in full:l No doubt Christians who are liberal poli­tically have_a problem when the only candidate who opposes public funding is a political con­servative. It is difficultto see how their .judgment that another candidate is more congenial on most other issues can be traded off against his being wrong on this massively important one. Single-issue politics? Perhaps. This recently coined scare phrase would aptly capture what would have been right and Christian in Nazi Germany and in the case of civil rights in the United States. Once more, we see that it is not single-issue politics that bothers secular humanists but the single issue that many believers now feel takes precedence over aU the others. The candidate referred to in the opening sentence is else-here in the article identified as 
for abortions performed on poor women. True. If he votes for Carter or Anderson, he votes for someone who will probably not try to prevent such payments. True. But those facts alone do not make it even the least bit clear that the voter need think no further, as the single-issue emo­tionalists claim. What if the can­didate committed to trying to stop public funding for abortions is also committed to doing other things that are likewise funda­mentally evil? 
Professor Mcinerny claims that no other issues in the cam­paign are on the same level as this "massively important one." But how does he arrive at that judgment? Apparently by sug­gesting that all the other issues can be collected under the vague differece · between "conserva­tive" and "liberal" which is scarcely very profound or sharp in American politics. The un­stated rhetorical question is this: Surely you don't think that such a vague and unsubstantial dif­ference as that is "massively im­portant?" 
Well, the fact of the matter (and Thomists are supposed to be attentive to such facts) is that no voter will find such a choice on his ballot. He will actually find particular names and Pro£ Mcinery wants you to choose Ronald Reagan's name. 
Is Ronald Reagan very little different from the other can­didates on the ballot? Isn't there in fact a number ofmatters other than abortion on which Carter s importantly from Reagan? (I leave out Anderson as a certain loser.) It is clear to anyone who has attended to this sad cam­paign (rather than excluding as unimportant everything but the single issue ofabortion) that it is not beyond reasonable judge­ment that voting for one who, by his stands on welfare, govern­ment spending, and the Windfall Profits Tax, may very well starve or freeze to death a substantial number of your fellow citizens, the poorest and the oldest. · Oh that sounds overdramatic, especially to comfortable middle class professors. But the fact is that there is a substantial number of the poor in our society now subsisting on dogfood who may well die directly or indirectly of malnutrition if dome~tic welfare spending is cut deeply enough. Does Ronald Reagan intend their death? I think not, but that doesn't mean he may not cause it anyway. He has scarcely adver­tized himself as the shield of the weak and the champion of the hungry. He has advertized him­self as the champion of massive cuts in domestic spending, in­cluding welfare. Moreover, he is pledged to repealing the Wind­fall Profits Tax some ofwhich is used to help the poor pay for their skyrocketing fuel bills. Perhaps that seems like a matter of minor injustice to the well­heated and well-healed. But the rw,04 is that death from hypo­thermia is not unheard ofamong the aged poor who cannot afford to keep warm. Does the threat to their lives and those of the hun­gry poor become massively un­important because single-issue 
opponents of abortion haven't thought about them in the com­fort of their well-heated dining rooms? 
Let me take one more issue dealing with life (since that's that level of the abortion issue): that ofwar and peace. It is not beyond the limits of reasonable judg­ment to think that Ronald Reagan is more rash, and so more dangerous, thanJimmy Carter to have at the head of our foreign policy and our armed forces. He has a long record of advocating armed intervention ( oh, let us eschew euphemisms, war) in a long list of places where Carter chose diplomacy instead, e.g. Zimbabwe-Rhodesia. Is it be­yond reasonable judgment that a candidate who talks about for­eign policy in the jinoistic, as­sertive, self-righteous accents of the third-rate cowboy movies is likely to get us into new Viet Nams? Are the lives ofthose who would be killed in such wars mas­sively unimportant merely be­cause single-issue political phil­osophers haven't thought about them? And what if a rash and trigger-happy man with his hand on the infamous button, after he has stoked up American-Soviet relations with a blazing arms race, pushes it and blows up the world? What if he only helps some mad dictator blow it up when he hasgotten nucleaur pro­liferation? Well, that would put an end to abortion along with everything else. Does Reagan want those things? No. But re­sponsible voters are required to ask whether Reagan is more likely than Carter to bring them about. Or is that massively unimportant because single-issue political fanatics don't think they have to think about it? 
Oh, I know, those are "judg­gmet calls" and about personal qualities and therefore hard to make. But it is also a "judgment call" to think that Reagan will actually succeed in cutting off any money for abortions. Voting 
. consists in making just such judgment calls. 
Has my tone been too harsh in contrast to Prof. Mcinerny's ac­customed bland irony? Well, he published his call to thoughtless­ness just a week before the elec­tion so I have only a day or so to shock out of sleep those whom he and others have encouraged to stop thinking about other is­sues. And Prof. Mcinerny him­self, who is a lover of justice, will welcome hard words if they call him back from a thoughtless and irresponsible act. Moreover, in­justice is involved in another way and deserves all the more sharp 
· reply as it is clothed in sheep' 
clothing. IfReagan too poses th threat of deep injustices, inclu­ding mortal ones, then it is unjus to suggest, as the article by Prof. Mcinerny does, that only thos who vote for Reagan can escap being thought of like collabor­ators with American o:r Naz· racist murderers. Yes, that is th thrust of his illustrations in spit of the mansuetude of the rhe­toric. 
You may well make a differen "judgment call" on the Carter­Reagan race. Both candidate have deep faults. But no on ought to call you ·a fascist or Nazi for it. The choice is far to darkly mixed. 
But you will vote as a culpabl igorant fool if you make tha judgment call on the basis of sinngle issue where the horror o abortion makes you "feel" that i "takes precedence over al others." Responsible voter ought to do more than "feel" their votes. They ought to thi them through and weigh all th relevant issues. Responsible phil­osophers ought to ecourage citi­zens to do as much. 
We live in dark days when ou only choices are sometime, among evils and the good rna tries to pick the lesser of them. A defense of single-issue irration­ality can only add to the dark­ness. Let there be light. 
E. A. Goerner is a proji.mor o Government and International Studies at Notre Dame. 


Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
HeY, AReN'T 

NHIITRJR, MIW? 


NO /(//J/JIIIK.7?
YOU GUYS GO-YOt/ 7DllJ M& I •""'Y
CJ/f<TER. ,4}/{) 
trVi

W!TH THE CHOICCS 
JECZ .. I PIIJN'T

• lNG IN 70 
RlfA(jt/N WE!!?& HAVE GrJ!7EIV RUNNING! ff IA/RtJN6. 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 

Ihe Obser-=ver== 
Editor-in-Chief .......... Paul Mullaney Sports Editor . ........... Beth Huffman Box Q, NolTe Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor . ............ Mark Rust Features Editor . ..•.•..... Molly Woulfe The Obse111er is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editorials Editor ......... Mike Onufrak Photo Editor .............. .John Macor 
Jniversity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not necessarily 
Senior Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
:eflect the policies of the administration of either instituuon. The news is reponed Businm Manager ......... Greg Hedges 
Executive News Editor .... To'mJackman
ts accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Controller................... .Jim Rudd 
News Editor .... , ... ; ..•.. Pam Degnan 
najority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views 
Advertising Manager . ......... Mark Ellis »f their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and SMC Executive Editor .... Margie Brassil 
Circulation Manager....... Beth Hackett 
he free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC News Editor .... ..... Mary Leavitt 
Production Manager ..... .John McGrath 
l 
1 
1 



' Features 
Tuesday, November 4, 1980 -page 7 
THE MCNAlLY POU 
Poll Results: Of Lucifer and LUst 
Ed McNally & Leslie Griffith 
Let's face it: Political polls are fully 21 per cent said they know a minus two per cent of N.D. men whelming 83 per cent of St. Mary'sboring. As most every analyst has someone else who~s going to hell. So think they're fated for hell, meaning students believe themselves securely remarked with rare originaltty, the either that 4 per cent have a lot of none belteve they'll go there; and set for heaven. Though it's often 
only poll that counts is the one taken acquaintances or else a lot of that 80-some male students are said that Saint Mary's girls are on Election Day. And under our students are seriously overestimat­walking around bad-mouthing the "good", the usual interpretation of system, the Electoral College (not to ing their own chances for a pleasant devil.) that remark seems to be, quitebe confused with Valparaiso) can by hereafter. The bi8gest disparity concerned literally, a misconception.rights ignore that poll as well. • The McNally Poll, like any other the quesuon of wfiere respondents Don t be dismayed by all this 
I What about the real mysteries of professional market research group, thought others would end up. While news. Hell will be a better place for the day? Have you ever wondered has a computor which whirs and nearly 20 per cent of the men just the influx of Domers. They will what happens to the wild men hums and coughs out sheafs of weren't sure where their lady friends ~ather for friendly tail~aters and caught wtth keggers, puppy d2gs, or cross-referenced data on each ques­were headed, only 2 per cent of the mtroduce words like ' awesome" 
ladies in their rooms? To Regina tion. On the matter of hell, for women had any such doubts. It and "intense". The women ... will freshman not yet signed in as the instance, a far greater percentage of seems ifyou're a girl, there's just no decorate the walls with photo col­sun also rises? To throats studying Democrats see themselves as question about whether a certain guy lages featuring themselves. 
on the other side of Touchdown doomed to the abyss than do 
] esus during home football games? Republicans. Yet the fast track at They may be going to hell. N.D. clearly belongs to the indepen­This conclusion is actually based dents and those not bothering to 
on sound scientific evidence. The regtster--about one in four in those information comes from the McNally decadent groups knows someone Poll, which regularly asks samflings bound for Dante's Inferno (for those of the 10,000 members o the outside the General Program, the ND/SMC community who they want Inferno is a book. Dante's the guy to be elected to one post or another who wrote it.) and what they think about this or Eight per cent of those unregis­that. The this or that tends to run to tered frankly admit their ill-fated the mundane--inflation and the status ("Hell yes!" declared one.) windfall profits tax--but sometimes Large numbers of Caner supporters the poll wanders off into the nether are also fatalistic about their destiny regions. (' '] immy' s sinful lust was in his 
Last spring, for example, it con­heart,'' explained one Alumni jun­cluded its interviews thus: "The ior, ''I'm afraid mine lies a bit last two questions concern your south of there.'') views on the afterlife. First, do you As for men and woman, about know of anyone here at NDISMC equal numbers of each sex are is an angel or the incarnation of The new success of Satan's foot­who you would expect to end up in convinced they're proceeding in the Mephistopheles. And judging by ball team could win a wide follo"'ing hell?" "Second, where do you direction "We're #l" Moses is some of the epithets hurled down the for the whole instituition. And yourself think you'll end up--in pointing. More intriguing, perhaps, LeMans steps late night, some though everyone knows that in 1977 heaven or in hell?'' IS the indication that twice as many women are not only sure of their God Made ND #1, 'Barna could be 
Well, a confident 76 per cent of girls(6 per cent) as guys (3 per cent) ex-date's destination, but don't mind tough this year, and it probably the students here count on being think they'll wind up in Hades, advising on travel arrangements, wouldn't hurt to occasionally hedge justly rewarded in heaven. An which could mean that a very small either. our bets. undecided group isn't so sure. And 4 number of guys around here are Of all the groups surveyed here, [For the record: it'll be the Gipper per cent--about 400 Darners, if the having a helluva lot of fun. only two did not have a single with a sen'es ofclose, game-winning percentage is projected to the stu­(Actually, polls of this son have a member who believed he or she was · fieldgoals in Illinois, Ohio, and dent body--figure they'll be fanning margin of error of five percentage hell-bound: N.D. Republicans and Texas--all very late in the 4th the flames with Faust. However, points, either way. So it may be that S.M.C. women. In fact, an over-quarter. Watch for it.] 

Voila IFrench Film Festival Opens 

Chris Cervenak 
Whether you can sing all verses of Instead, prepare yourself for some cop and a professor of Greek can find grossing foreign film in history. "La the "Marseillaise" or only chime in on romping good laughs and humorous, happiness together in their middle Cage aux Folies" is the name of a 
that catchy refrain "Voulez-vous painless continental entertainment. years. Judith Crist of The New York Post tranvestite night club run by a pair of · couchez avec moi, ce soir?" this week's From November 4 through writes, "If Columbo were a lady or aging homosexuals, one ofwhom has a French Film Festival is worth catching. November 8, the Student Union Kojak were a dame ... Leave it to son. It gets better. The son's fiance's Forget the stereotypical foreign flick Movie Commission is presenting four Philippe DeBroca to beat us to the father is the chief ofthe Department of imbued with political statements and French movies in the Engineering feminist punch in the wise, witty, and Morals and is not likely to approve of oppressive smoke-filled rooms. Auditorium. Admission is only $1.00. wonderfully light-hearted fashion that his new in-laws. Eager to help the All movies will be shown at 7, 9, and is his hallmark. It's the feel-best movie young lovers, the boy's "parents" 
11:00 p.m. Here's a preview of the around." Thursday, Nov. 6-Cousin, make a valiant attempt to curb their films: Tuesday, Nov.4-Truffaut's Cousirze outrageous lifestyle to appear "nor­Small Change This is a love story with a twist. It's mal" and "respectable." 
This widely acclaimed film of the about Martha and Ludovic, cousins The results are unforgetably comic. famous French director, Francois through marriage (his uncle and her There are scenes of such hilarity that Truffaut is an intricate mosaic of the mother), whose relationship devel­the Marx Brothers annd Charlie lives of several children in a small opes from one of acquaintance to Chaplin come to mind as the only basis provincial town. Truffaut masterfully friendship to love. Of course, their of comparison. But beneath the 
· gives us moments of raucous hilarity patient and loving families look on in comedy is a touching and sensitive 
and genuine trauma demonstrating a dismay. And Notre Dame and Saint story that proves that love doesn't vision of childhood that is profound Mary's students, take note of one know any boundaries. and wise, realistic and entertaining. critic's view of "Cousin, Cousine": So whether you want to impress a Wednesday, Nov. 5-DeBroca'sDear "Quite possibly the most accurate date with your cosmopolitan savoir­Inspector representation of happy, healthy sen­faire or simply want to enjoy yourself, 
Remember the King ofHearts and suality I have seen on film Gohn have some vin rose, grab your popcorn That Man Frankio? The same director Simon, New York Magazine)." Friday, and check out the French Foreign Film who brought you these serves up Dear Nov. 7 and Saturday, Nov. 8-La Cage Festival. Oh, and you can leave your Inspector. It's one of those witty ro­aux FoUes French-English dictionaries at home. mantic comedies that only the French One of the most phenomenal film Dubbing and subtitles are provided. can produce, yet also a suspenseful successes in history, this comedy is on Chris Cervenak is a Notre Dame junior murder mystery. It asks whether a lady its way to becoming the largest from Los Angelos, California. 




-r-------­
~ 
Ute ObserYer====== 


T0 da~=============T=u=e=s=d=ay='=N=ov=e=m=be=r=4='=1=9=8=0=-=p=a=g=e=8 

-
~~~------------·
I need printin'l I r-----·;;;;~;;------, ~ 40alat 8I in a hurry? I 
1100-11x17 postersl 
I JUNIORS! !I ~xecu~~~:~~:P~~~~'eD~~~:!int~w
I I f sign up by Tuesday Nov. 11. tI only$10.00 I I Anyone interested in co-chairing next I t Applications available in Student Government t
I .,. I 
I '
office.

11 ~ 03 N. Maini I Year's Senior Trip should pick. up an 1 '' Positions Wanted: ' • • I application from any class off1cer or at 1 t Thursday Chr. Friday Chr. Sat. Chr. t1 ·., South Bend 1 I f Keeper of the Zoo 2 Asst. Chr. tI I I Student Activities OffiCe. Applications I , Special Events Night Events Booklet ,I 289-6977 I g I ' Publicity Secretary Comptroller 'I are due back by noon Sunday, Nov. • t Irish Wake Personnel Recess t
I thewiz of the I 
I J t t
Any Questions Call Mitch@ 233-2618

LE~~_g-~~--1 


L---------------------------------­
Campus 
• election day 
•4:30 
p.m. -biology department lecture, "poly­ploidy in animals and plants," dr. walter lewis, washington u., 278 galvin. 

•4:30 
p.m. -lecture, sponsored by nrotc, mem. library aud. 

• 
6:30 p.m. -meeting, german club, mccandless piano room. 

•7,9,11 
p.m. -film, "small change," engr. aud., sponsor: student union. 

• 
7:30 p.m. -hockey, nd vs bowling green, away. 



Marullo disputes Russian aura 
Tomorrow night at 8 p.m. the Cavanaugh Hall Academic Com­mission will sponsor the illus­trated lecture, "Are the Russians Ten Feet Tall?" to be presented by Dr. Thomas Marullo, assistant professor in the Department of Modern and Classical Languages. The lecture will be held in the Cavanaugh Study Lounge, and is the first in a series of lectures to be sponsored by the newly formed Cavanaugh Academic Commis­sion. 
College Bowl meeting 

There will be a brief meeting for all persons interested in this year's ND College Bowl Program, tomorrow at 7 p.m. in room 106 O'Shaughnessy. Rules and pro­cedures will be explained, and sign-up sheets will be available. For further information, call Dr. Peter Lombardo at 7005. 

Call John at 8661 


Molarity 

TODAY~ £LEC.TlDN DAY. DID YOU CHDD.5£ THE L-EAST OF THE 



Peanuts ® 
TODA~, TROOPS, WE'RE GOING TO CONCENTRATE ON TREE IDENTIFICATION 

KDCD 
~~~~~ 
1 Concerning team

The Daily Crossword 6 Pacific 29 Fungus· Islands covered 
10 Hairdo 32 Open the 
14 Certaill corral 


bath 33 Wire 15 Crazy one 34 Ending with 16 Reared pay or cup 17 Ryan's 35 Accomplish· 
forte ment 19 Recent 36 Buckets 20 Ralnyday 37 Decorous 
savings 38 Way off 
21 London 39 Crowd straddles 40 Black tea It 41 Caretakers 
23 Call for 43 Shrivels help 44 Dessert 24 Imitation offering 

felt 45 "Raven" man dram 40 Entreated 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune· N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 11/4/80 All Rights Reserved 11/4/80 

J.JHY DIDN'T YOU VOT£, , DION? DoN'T YOU . WANI A VOICE IN 
ntE GoVERNMI:NT 
NOW, WHAT 
WOULD '{OU CALL THAT? 

---. ---. -{0-21 
ACROSS 25 NYC soccer 
Michael Molinelli 
r DO...C.''·"-Y I 
ALREADY OWN MY OWN 6ENATOR, 
5 Assumes 42 Gambles 6 Uses a crop 43 Ennui 7 Ending Inducer 
with cur 45 -off and fur (foists) 8 Write 46 Of a period briefly 47 Part of 
9 Puts In St. Peter's 10 Flaming 48 Old the 11 Supporting crawl 
structures 49 Jabberwock·v 12 Network word of nerves 50 Kitchen 13 Pindar's appliance output 51 Bloke 18 Personal· 52 Wiles I ties 55 Flattering 22 Pelt speech 


Charles M. Schu1z 
NO, CONRAD, I VOUSTTHAT IT'S CALLED A''SIX TREE'' 
46 Poser 48 NY lake 53 Uncommon 54 Sent 
sprawling 56 Assert 57 O'Fiaherty 58 Happening 59 Minus 60 Stately 
trees 61 Bends a fender 
DOWN 1 Part of 
NEA:abbr. 2 Restrain 3 Ofus 4 Gram or 
24 The Good Book 25 Shirt 
feature 26-a time 27 Trunk 
occupants 28 Came across 29 Domestic 
help 30 "Wasteland" 
man 31 Ladles 33 St. Louis 
team 36 Easily moved 37 Coal or jacket 39 Injury 



The Observer Tuesday, November 4, 1980 -page9 
In Bottom Ten 




Texas-El Paso takes first 

Ty Barber (12( scored his second touchdown of this season when he crossed the goal for Notre Dame's first TD against Navy. [Photo by Chn's Salvino) 
Advertised Item Polley 

loch ol thtlf •d~tr1•ud •ltml 11 rtqutrfd to bP rudlll 
I lor ult '" uch Kro1rr starr racrpt ., iptclh m lht\ •d II •• do run out ot •n ,., tlrm •r wtll otlrr tou your chotcr of • com 
•trm •"''" ''''l•hlr trflrcf,nt: lhf umt' UY1ft&' 
r••nchrc~ whtch ••tlt"lttlr tou lo purch•~• lhr •" tl•m tl lh1 •d,.rtMd ~'"' otlhtn 30 day~ 
Springdale 
Paper Carton 


2% Lowfat Milk $159 Gal. 

As was the case with our counterparts in the Top 
Ten, there were some drastic changes at the top of 
the Bottom Ten. 
Last week's number-one team, Colorado, sur­
prised even themselves, sufferring a disappointing 
win over Iowa State. Chuck Fairbanks and his 
squad stormed to a 17-9 victory against the 
Cyclones, who were bothered by the atmospheric 
conditions in Boulder. 
As a result of the win, Boulder and Bottom Ten 
rules, the Buffaloes have been banned from this 
week's poll. This could spell disaster for their 
chances at a national championship, as Colorado 
closes out the season with games against pow­
erhouses Oklahoma State, Kansas, and Kansas 
State. 
Vanderbilt, owners of the number-one ranking 
earlier in the season, and last week's number-three 
team, were winners as well. The Commodores 
grooved to a 14-10 win over Memphis State. This 
game impressed the voters, as Vandy was dropped 
fro'm the rankings, and the Tigers made their 
debut in the number-nine slot. 
Usually, the Bottom Ten gives awards only at mid­season and in the post-season. In extremely unusual cases, however, provisions are made for special recognition. Such is the case with "The Lt. William Calley Scapegoat Award". It goes to the Athletic Director at Texas Christian University, Frank Windegger. 
During last week's TCU-Baylor game, PA an­nouncer Bob Barry gave the results ofSMU's upset of Texas. At the time, Baylor lead the Horned Frogs, 7-6. Baylor went on to win21-6, and remain undefeated. After the game, Windegger fired Barry, claiming that the announcement lifted Baylor's spirits, causing TCU to lose. Said Windegger,"there's no one to blame for the loss but the PA announcer." 
They shoot horses don't they? 
Here are this week's rankings: 
1) Texas-El Paso (1-8) I JTEP rockets to the top after an 8 3-7 loss to 
Springdale Cottage Cheese 24 oz. Carton $129  Embassy Coffee $399 2 lb. Can Everyday Low Price  

30¢ Off Lab~l 
20¢ off label 
Scope
Crest 
Mouth Wash Toothpaste 18 oz. Bottle 
7 oz. Tube $119 $149 
Assorted Varieties Assorted Varieties Totino's Pizza Banquet Pot Pies 11%-12 oz. 
3 8 oz. Packages 
$119 $109 
Kroger 
Mountain TopPre-Whipped 
Apple or PumpkinTopping Pie 12 oz. Carton 
26 oz. Package
79¢ $119 

Rob Simari and 
Skip Desjar~in 
BYU 

2) Northwestern (0-9) 
disappointing offense (31 pts.), consistent de­
fense (52 pts.) against Purdue 
3) Oregon State (0-7) Stanford QBJohn Elway penetrated the Beaver 
secondary for six TD passes 4) TCU (0-7) who's next for AD Windegger? 5) Cincinnati (0-8) long awaited match-up with Richmond draws 
9 300 fans and a 24-1 0 loss 
6) Georgia Tech (1-7) the wreck looks toward rout at the hands of 
Notre Dame 7) Columbia (1-6) it's not funny, it's sad 
8) Michigan State (1-7) Muddy Waters sings the blues 
9) Memphis State (1-7) 
next week it's a classic, as the Tigers face Cincinnati 
10) NFL Today on CBS (1-1) will Woody Hayes replace Jimmy the Greek? Also receiving votes: Air Force (1-6-1) Oklahoma State (1-5-1) Kansas State (2-6) Quote of the Week: Central Missouri State head coach Dr. Alan 
Molde, on his team's game with Arkansas State, which was played in a heavy rainstorm: 
"It was raining so hard that I had to take four players out of my regular starting line-up. They told me that·they couldn't swim." 
Reg. Thick or Thin 
Eckrich Sliced Bologna 
12 oz. Package 
$159 
.~ 
40 Size 
Ripe Golden
U.S. No. 1 
Indian River 
Chiquita
Idaho 
White 
Bananas
Potatoes 
Grapefruit
101b.Bag 
33¢ lb.
5 for $100
$199 

........................ 

Tuesday, November 4, 1980--page 10
The Observer 




Campbell rushes past last two title paces 
Earl Campbell is . getting ahead of himself. 
The sensational running back of the Houston Oilers is ahead of the/ace he set two 
-years ago an again last year when he won consecutive Na­tional Football League rushing titles. In 1978, en route to a rookie-record 1,450 yards, Campbell had 799 yards through nine regular-sc:ason games. In 1979, when Earl finished with 1,697 yards, he had 812 of them after nine games and, at this point in the · '79 campaign, was third in rushing 10 the league, trailing Walter Payton's 1,000 and Ottis Anderson's 836. Today, after his 157-yard, two-touchdown performance in Denver that paved the way to 20-16 triumph over the Bron­cos, Campbell leads the league in rushing with 964 yards. That's 165 ahead of his rookie pace and 152 ahead of last year's. Billy Sims, the Detroit Lions' rookie (and the NFL's No. 1 draft choice), is No. 2 now with 896 yards. Payton, who finish­ed second to Campbell with 1,610 yards a year ago, and runner-up two years aso as well with 1,395, was thtrd in the league with 762 yards heading into the Chicago Bears' Monday ni~ht game against the Browns 10 Cleve­land. 
And Anderson, who a year ago shattered Campbell's 1978 rookie rushing record by gain­ing 1,605 in his ftrst pro year with St. Louis, is fourth so far this year with 740 yards. 
Campbell went about picking uP. his two rushing crowns in different fashions. As a rookie, he faded at the end of the season with 41,67 and 77 yards in his final three games. Last year he finished strong, rush­10g for at least 100 yards in each of his last seven games, another NFL record. 
Campbell had a chance to achieve a feat not even 0 .]. Simpson could manage--three consecutive 200-yard games. He wound up 43 yards short (they would have shunted him past 1.000 for the season), but he still got some big yards when the Oilers needed therr ... and not just for points. 
Coach Bum Phillips, at his analytical best, reserved some special praise for a play which ate up valuable time as well as yards. "When we were ftrst­and-15 and he went for the first down near the end of the game, that was the/lay of the ball game," he sai . 
Bum was also. . . well. . . Bum when he started in on the running back who has turned the Oilers into perennial con­tenders. "There are a lot of imposters, but there ain't but one Earl Campbell,'' the coach drawled. 

Public Managers 
Carnegie Mellon University 
The Program 

leads to an M.S. in Public Manage­ment and Policy Analysis. The professionaI, project-oriented curriculum pro­vides a solid foundation in man­agement skills and produces dynamic managers for the 

Riley Odoms : Wizard of Oz 
Cleveland (AP)---He doesn't have the "name" like, say Houston's Dave Casper, New England's Russ Francis or Denver's Riley Odoms. But he's got a nickname none of the others could hope to match ·-"the Wizard of Oz." 

1 00% Job Place­ment in govern­ment, privfile consulting firms, and corporations since SUPA gradu­ated its first class in 1972. 
Financial Aid is available. 

For more information, please fill out and return the following coupon. 
Name ---------------------------------------------------­Address ______________________________________________ City_______,____State ______Zip --------­University /College _:__________;_____________________________ Major ____________________________Degree________ Date of Graduation ____________G.P.A. ---------­Send to: William J. Stahler School of Urban & Public Affairs Admissions Office Carnegie-Mellon University Margaret Morrison Bldg., Room 110 Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Ozzie Newsome ofthe Cleve­land Browns picked up that moniker when he was a wide receiver for Coach Bear Bryant at the University of Alabama. But in the National Football League, the three-year veteran as one of the more unrecogniz­ed tight ends, this despite being among the leading re­ceivers in the American Con­ference. 
"I have no regrets about switching positions,'' says the 6-2, 232-pounder from Muscle Shoals, Ala. "Ifwe were more run-oriented, I'd be highly disappointed. But the Browns are using all of my skills and, at times, I even have an inkling of being a wide receiver in the back of my mind.'' 
Going Into this weekend's NFL action, including the Browns' game yesterday a­gainst the visiting Chicago Bears--only two other AFC tight ends--San Diego's Kellen Winslow and Houston's Mike Barber--had more receptions than Newsome's 28 for 336 yards and two touchdowns: 
''I want to be the best,'' says Newsome. "Some say I al­ready am, but other tight ends like Casper and Francis can do some things I can't. I've learned to do things a lot smoother, a lot easier, but I've hot a way to go yet.:'_ 
One area in which he needs hardly any improvement is pass-blocking, which might seem unusual considering his role as a receiver in college. ''At Alabama, everybody had to block, even the quarter­backs," 'newsome explaines. 
''Blocking is a 'want-to-do' thing. If you really want to block somebody, you can. I came here knowmg how to block. It was just a matter of doing it every day so that it became second nature. 

"My blocking will never be as good as my catching or running,' 'Newsome went on, "but at least I can count on it now. I don't go to bed anymore wondering if I can block the defensive end the next game. If I use the basic things I've been taught, I can do well enough." 
And as fai as receiving, he does far better than just well enough. After catching the ball 102 times for 2.070 yards and 16 touchdowns at Alabama he made another 93 receptions for 1,370 and 11 TDs in his ftrst two seasons with the Browns. Not even Milt Morin, perhaps Cleveland's greatest tight end, achieved that. In his ftrst two full seasons, Morin had 66 catches for 1,125 yards and eight TDs. 

All Majors and Fields Invited Our representative will be present on your campus for the Graduate Schools Career Day to answer questions about our curriculum, admissions, financial aid, and career opportunities in the following management fields: 
Health Administration Public and NonProfit 
Finance Human Resources Marketing Economics General Management Management Science Accounting Policy 
Monday, November 10 Contact the Placement Bureau Room 213 for Details 

Sports Brie s 
~9

~b:y~T.~h;e~O~h:se:r,:~r~an:d~Th:e~A~s:su:a:a,:ed7:P:ff~rs9f========7===================~1L~u~e~s~d~a~y~,~~~o~v~e~nn~b~e~r~4 ~B~O~--;;dp~a~g~e~l~l
~'~1 

Scott Zettek of Notre Dame was named Midwest Player of the Week on defense. Zettek had 12 tackles including four sacks for losses totaling 31 yards and forced a fumble which the Irish converted in a field goal while shutting out Navy, 33-0. 
Tailback Jimmy Smith of Purdue has been· selected Midwest Player of theWeek on offense for his performance in a 52-31 victory Northwestern last Saturday. 
Others nominated for the offensive award included Todd Sheets ofNorthwestern, Marion Barber ofMinnesota, Butch Woolfolk of Michigan; Art Schlichter of Ohio State andJim Stone of Notre Dame. 
All The Kine:'S Men from Zahm Hall 
won this year's 16-inch soft~ll championshp by beating the Bemho's ofCavanaugh in the final game, 5-2. Members ofthe championship team (see photo-from left to right, starting with the bottom row) are Jim Malooly, Jeff Mihalik, Paul Smith, John Bates, (middle row) Father King, Mike Fell, Bill Hochul, Dan Paterka, (top row) Mike Hanifin, Jack McCabe, Bill Stratman andJim Maulkus. 
Army ticket refunds for Notre Dame or 
St. Mary's students, who ordered an individual game ticket for the October 18 game and did not pick up that ticket, are available in the form of cash refunds during the hours of 9-5 
p.m. Monday through Friday at the Gate 10 Box Office Window. Students may pick up their refund during the month of November. The last day refunds will be issued will be Wednesday, November 26 (the day before Thanksgiving break). Presentation of your student ID cards is required to obtain the cash refund. 
Off-camous womeninterested in playing inter hall basketbalfshould contact Kathy Erndt at 277-8727 or the Interhall Office at 6101 by today. 
Lacrosse plavers who still have equipment 
out should turn it in to Ric'h Hunter's office today from 2:30­
4:30 p.m. 
Get out of your hole and come to the poll 
• • • Corrigan 
(continued from page 12) 
of athletics." 
A school's press material al­ways tries to paint a pretty picture ofits administrators, but everything the guide says is very true. Corrigan guided the Vir­ginia athletic program onward and upward during the '70s, while most other schools were struggling with economic pres­sures. 
Since 1971, there has been growth in all phases of the pro­gram. When Corrigan arrived, the school was just beginning to admit women. There are now 10 varsity programs for the Cavalier ladies. During the same span, the men's program has grown from 13 to 23 sports. In con'trast, Notre Dame, a school ofroughly half the enrollment of Virginia, offers 13 varsity sports for men and five for women. 
Also during Corrigan's tenure, the school has added a new baseball stadium, a tartan­surfaced track, expanded tennis facilities and a new Intramural/ Recreation complex-much like Notre Dame's Rockne Memorial. The most impressive physical change was the most recent one-a multi-million dollar expansion and renovation of Scott Stadium-which made it perhaps the finest stadium in the conference and increased capacity by 12,000 to 42,073. 
Yet Corrigan's list of accom­plishments at Virginia includes more than numbers of varsity sports or facility improvements. "When I came here, we were really in debt, among other things," Corrigan recalls. "We took a look at things -a long look, a long honest look -and we decided that Virginia hasn't been very good in ath­letics ... ever. We really had no (athletic) tradition to fall back on." 
At that point, Corrigan pre­pared a very comprehensive re­port for university president Frank L. Hereford. "In that report, we said, 'Look, we've got to get off of dead center. We've got nothing to fall back on and we're still not creating anything. If you want to excell, as you do academically and culturally (Playboy says U. Va. is "in a class by itself'' as a party school) and in every other way, then why not let us do the same thing in athletics?' 
...Which in effect we did." 
Many people feel that one of Corrigan's major responsibilities at Notre Dame will be athletic fund raising, something the University announced last spring it would venture into for the first time, and something Corrigan as done quite well at Virginia. After all, those facilities didn't pay for themselves. 
"When I came here, the StudentAid Foundation(a major fund raising organization crucial to athletic expansion) was about $300,000 in debt to the Univer­sity, was only raising about $180,000 a year and was spend­ing maybe $280,000 a year. So the first thing I had to do was to go to these people and say, 'Hey, that's not enough money; that's not even close. Not only that, we have to pay all that money back.'" 
Which they did in about three­and-a-half years, and it was only then that the athletic program began its climb to (especability and excellence. 
Yesterday afternoon, both Krause and Corrigan spoke at the Touchdown Club in Washington, D.C.-a short drive for the man from Virginia, a plane trip for Moose. The changing of the guif~hs at hand and Gene Corrigan is ready, willing and able to meet the challenge. After all, Notre Dame is truly, the only place he'd ever leave Charlottesville for, and Corrigan was really the only outsider ever really in the running for the Notre Dame job (as we will see tomorrow). 
Janet Sketchley, Corrigan's secratary for the last five years, cried when she learned of her bosses move. "I could write a book bout the man," she says. "I could lose him on the way to the parking lot. Four people would stop him and he'd have time for every one of them." 
And as the office calls from well-wishers increase in frequen­cy, her standard response to them becomes more and more sincere. 
"Our loss is Notre Dame's gain." 
Tomorrow: The Hiring. 
Irish
e e e 

(continued from page 12) 
could. It was anybody's game, really. "Valpo was very aggressive, and they did have five players 
make  the  all-tournament  
team."  
Irish  sophomores  Jeanne  

Grasso and G iana Marrone, and freshman Janet Hlavin repre­sented Notre Dame on the all­tournament team as well. 
In the championship game of the state tournamet, Valpo again went into overtime, this time with Franklin College, and once again emerged with a last­minute victory. Both teams will join Notre Dame in represent­ing Indiana at the Regionals this weekend. 
Classifieds 
35mm CAMERA SYSTEM FOR SALEI Pentax Spotmatlc II with 1.4 50mm lens, 28mm wide angle lens, 85·205 zoom lens, 2x teleconverter, auto strobon nash system, Haliburton 
zero case, plus many extras. Mint Condlllanl Call Kevin Fete, 7736. 
[ TICKETS 
------·-------·­
Will swap two USC tor two Barna lilt Call1295. 
NEEDED: Air Force TIX Call Kurt at 107A 
1need A-5 GA Air Force Tlckell. Call 277·1A9A. 
All r:l.t!'!!llflt!f) oHh fliU51 IH• rP.l Hh/~111,.,. 4 4~ 1~ 111 I Nil f).JV'> po 11 IO 1111.' ••• .,Ill~ Ill •Adlld'l ltw :td ... 11111 nu.• ObservHr lJifll.l.' will oil t't•pt c. f,t·.·~·'"'"'> Mwlll.ty lhr'"'IJtl Frrd;t~· 10 00 ·1 n1 Ill-::, OCJ p m Ail l.l 11'>'·rfu•d'> "111'>1 t11 ­prr•·j)rlld "'"lll'r ''' pt~rson ld Thrc,114h !!Itt rt~tlll 
NOTICES 
COLLEGE BOWL MEETING FOR All INTERESTED PARTIES · 7:00 PM, WEDNESDAY, O'SHAG 106 
ILOST/FOUND I 
LOST; T~SS calculator llefore break If found PLEASE Call #1876 
LOST light Brown english style cap. Great sentimental value. II round, please call3527. 
FOUND: ONE SMALL GRAY PUPPY 
NEAR lAFORTUNE. CAU1500 BETWEEN 
9 AND 10 P.M. 
LOST: High School Ring; Probably In Galvin or ACC on Wednesday, Oct. 29. lllound please call Rich at3646. 
BEAUX ARTS BLUFF -The case ol beer that wasn't there. Ocl.28. 
.__I_F_O_R_RE_N_T~ 
FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Reni·A· 
Car. Priced from $7.95 a doy and seven cents a mile. Phone 255·2323 lor reservations. 
tour bedroom house torrent close to campus Immediate occupancy coll287·5361 
WANTED 
I 

HI Fl SALES CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE· 8ecome the person on campus lor discounted stereo equipment and make good money doing som• thing you enjoy. Major brands, warranty. Contact Mr. Pelltjohn, HI Fl Sales Co., 1001 Sussex Blvd., Broomall, Po 19008. 
NEEDED: ride to Chicago Hgta. area Nov. 7 and bock Nov. 9. Will take on•way ride. Will share usual. Call Allee at .&801. 
FOR SALE 
Soundeslgn Stereo System. S-track a Receiver, Turntable, A speakers $200 Call Tom 
[ PERSONALS I 
Patll Sheehan -Happy 22nd. OLD IADY111 We love yal Love Beth, Terese, Ann 
Willie Mischel Is a hermmn 
Trilh, xrat:iaJ pfJr /aJ dail'J Je t:IpanfJ/ )I Ill amfJr. Yo It: qNt~ro. 
I'm bummed...........THE BEERHUNTERI 
Today Is Mary Jones 21st blrthdaytl Yes that Is her real name. 
------------·-­
To !heAth floor Regina South alumni ol1978·79: Thank you so much lor the ftowers. My tamlly and 1 are deeply appreclaHve. 
love you, 
Eileen 

Bernie, 
Is II true that all you do Is nag, whine, and complain? That Is all we ever heard you do. I guess Ills true that SMC chlcs are In a class by themselves. 
Tom Hartzell, What was a nice girl like Cathy doing In Dillon that late? Sex·lan 1-F 
P.S. Have tun working with Fr. Carey! 
MARTHA, ("no esta" t<Jzzy)...rll cover lor you while you sleep the c:tay away contemplating your anftqulty. Remember, age Is only lldn deep. Besides, who would guess you're 21 the woy you run around singing "Oh Black Marna" all c:taY1 II'( the way, I think you're weird, but I lave you _, so much... 
Your Immature, "etlo durmlendo" 
J.F. Roomie. 
--------·­

--~­

------~­
Tuesday, November 4, 1980-page 12
S~rts 
AP names 
Corrigan: A man Notre Dame of vision and progress 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the statement told the world that 52­
as No. 1 

first article in a three-part series year-old Eugene F. Corrigan 
The Top Twenty teams in The .Associated 
introducing the Notre Dame commun­would be leaving the beautiful
, Press c:ollege football poll. with first-place votes u1 parentheses. season's rE!cords and ity to the University's new athletic Shenandoah Valley in Virginia 
r 
total points. Pomts based on 20-1!)·18-17-16 director, Eugene Corrigan, who wtll and heading for the frozen tun­
r 
P.IC.

I replace retiring Edward "Moose" dra of South Bend. r Notre Dame (47) 7·0·0 1.281 Krauseonjanuary5, 1981. Corrigan Corrigan has lived along the 
Georg1a (15) 8-0-0 1.238 wtll be finishing his term in the same eastern seaboard all his life, and Flonda St. (1) 1· 1·0 1.094 
r 
r 
post at the Universtty of Virginia on never has had any direct ties to 
~ Southern Cal (1 J 7-0·1 1,077
r 
5. Nebraska December 31. Associate Sports Edttor Notre Dame. Yet he's wanted to
7-1·0 1.025 
r 
6 Alabama 7"1·0 986 Michael Ortman recently spent a day beatNotre Dame since he was an {1) 908
7 Ohio St 7-1·0 wtth Corrigan on the Charlottesvrlle, alter boy in Baltimore, Md.
r 
8 UCLA 6-1·0 867 
9 Pittsburgh Va., campus. Growing up in a very Irish
7-1·0 812
,r 
10 Penn St. 7·1·0 717 Today -A biographical profile. Catholic family, Corrigan re­
, 
11 Oklahoma 5·2·0 612 members listening to Notre 
12 Michigan 6·2·0 420
I 
..] by Michael Ortman Dame football with his mother. 
Boyham Young 7-1-0 395 
,

r 
I 14. North CaFolma Associate Sports Editor "She was a big Notre Dame fan,"
7-1·0 357
r . ·5 South Carolma 6·2·0 354 Corrigan recalls. I ~ l:i Baylor 7·1·0 335 CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. -We didn't have television, you
17. Purdue 6-2·0 260
r 
•8. So. Methodist 6-2·0 242 _One big question floating know. We listened to the radio.
r 
' 
19 MISSISSIPPI St. 1·2·0 209 around Notre Dame's athletic You listened to Bill Stern," he Flonda 6·1·0 138 
departmentfor the pastfew years says, remembering that around 
has been, "Who could ever re­his house, that wasthe thing to do~ place Moose Krause." Everyone on fall Saturday afternoons. "I knew that his retirement was don't remember if it was Mutual
Irish get 

' 
nearing, but the athletic director or what it~as, butthevdidNotre ' ' at the most famous athletic in­Dame football every ·saturday. stitution in the world was almost "I can remember a backfield of
regional bid

I 
' 
irreplaceable. After all, the man Sitko, Saggua, Zontini and 
has been involved with Fighting Piepul. See, I remember that as a I ' in field hockey Irish athletics since Herbert kid. Why would I remember I Hoover was in the White House that?"
' 
I and Knute Rockne was Notre Perhaps Corrigan was just
by David Wilson

I Dame's football coach. made for Notre Dame, or vice
Sports Writer

I Scott Zettek (70J was selected_ as the Midwest's Defensive The question was answered versa. Nonetheless, his recollec­I Pla:yer_ of the Week for hzs performance against the less than a month ago when a tions ofNotre Dame football are 
Despite a heartbreaking loss
I Mzdshzpmen ofNavy. [Photo by Greg Maurer] in stark contrast to those echoed
rash ofnews leaks and an ensuing ~ to eventual champion by his predeccessor, or by the so I Valparaiso in last weekend's called "old timers." Their 
state tournament at Richmond, 
memories are of the Fourthe Irish women's field hockey Over Bears 
Horsemen-Jim Crowley, 
' 
' team has received a surprising Elmer Layden, Don Miller andI invitation to this weekend's
' 
Harry Stuhldreher,I Region Five tournament. 
5_ipe leads Browns to win 
When those four were winning 
Region Five, a national divi­
games for Rockne in 1923 and' ~ sion including field hockey CLEVELAND (AP)-Brian aged just 26 passing yards for the seconds on the clock. '24, Corrigan was but a twinkle in 
~ teams from Michigan, Illinois, Sipe, becoming the greatest pas­-Bears in the opening half, Evans finished with comple­his father's eye. His Notre Dame
I 
Ohio and Wisconsin, as· well as
I ser in the Cleveland Browns' brought them alive in the second tions on 18 of 33 attempts for backfield memories focus on the
Indiana, will hold the tourna­
I storied National Football ball half, bootlegging the ball 7 yards 201 yards. late-1930s-Steve Sitko (QB),
ment this weekend in Sauk
I League history, threw one touch­for a third-quarter TD, whipping Walter Payton, the Bears' Bqb Saggua (LH), Lou Zontini
Valley, Mich.

I down pass and set up three other it 17 yards to Brian Baschnagel premier runner, was strangely (RH) and Milt Piepul (FB)-a
The winner would receive a
I scores in a 27-2i Monday night with 4:45 to play, then passing to inactive carrying the ball just 11 generation after the Four 
spot in nationals later on this victory over the Chicago Bears. Robin Earl for 6 yards with 3 7 times for 30 yards. Horsemen; a group coached bymonth. Notre Dame will face 
Sipe, who ~pleted 23-of-39 one of them, Elmer Layden. 
' 
Northern Michigan in the first 
passes for 298 yards to drive the Corrigan did not ventureround of the eight-team con­
6-3 Browns back into a first-place westward for college. Instead he
Saint Mary 's Belles end
test, and coach Jan Galen is 
tie with Houston in the went south to Duke Universitytrying to be as optimistic as American Conference Central where he earned a liberal arts r possible.
, Division, hit Reggie Rucker with season in field hockey degre~ in 1952. From there,
"We'll just play itonegameat 
a 4-yard pass 57 seconds before Corrigan made his first stop at
r own medicine. As the score 1-0
a time and see how things go,"
I halftime for a 10-0 lead. He also Virginia serving as the Univer­
By Maureen Heraty reveals, Marion College barely
she said. "We didn't expect an 
guided Cleveland to Don sity's soccer, lacrosse and bas­
Sports Wrtler overcame the St. Mary's team.
invitation, but we're certainly 
Cockroft field goals of23 and 42 Rarely, did the Marion team ketball coach at one time or ' glad to have it."
' 
yards and Mike Pruitt's 1-yard another, as well as the sports
St. Mary's field hockey team manage to move the puck pastGalen added that her players 
' touchdown dive. played for the last time this St. Mary's defensive players information director. After that
will be emotionally high for the 
Pruitt, who gained 129 yards nine-year stint at Yooveeay 
' season on Friday when it com­Nancy Lorenzini and Celeste
game, which is nothing unusual
~ on 27 caries, put the game away peted in the Indiana State Curry. (that's U.Va.), Corrigan became
for the team. 

with a 56-yard touchdown sprint the Assistant Commissioner of
' ··[ don't know much about Tournament. During the tourn­"Nancy played exceptionally I ' Northern Michigan," she ad­with 3:35 to play after Chicago ament, the team achieved a win, well," said Weise. "It is amazing the Atlantic Coast Conference in 
had narrowed the margin to 20-Greensboro, N.C., before be­
suffered a loss and three of its that she never played fieldI mitted, "but we're ready for 
14. coming athletic director
players earned Most Valuable hockey before coming to St. at
ambody at this stage of the 
Sipe finished the nationally Washington & L~, a private
' ga111e." .. Player status for Division Three. Mary's." televi~ed contest with 13,5 34 university in northern Virginia.
t St. Mary's Belles narrowly As for Curry, Weise stated
In the state tournament, 
career yards, surpassing Hall of Finally he returned to
defeated DePauw University 2-1 frankly that Curry had probablyNotre Dame carried Valparaiso 
Farner Otto Graham, who threw Charlottesville in 1971 to fill the
f into the final miutes of over­largely due to the efforts ofBeth played "the best she has ever 
for 13,499 yards when he quar­post he still holds today. During
time before surrendering vic­Welsh and the rallying spirit of played."
terbacked the Browns for their his nine years as athletic director, 
I the team under pressure. Evidently, other coaches at
tory and losing 2-1. The only first six years in the NFL, starting girls came Ft;iday's recognize Corrigan took a struggling ath­
"The really on tournament
I Irish goal came on a shot by' sophomore Kathy Ray. in 1950. Graham also was their strong in the last few seconds of the talent on St. Mary's team. letic department and made it one 
I 
QB for their four years in the All­of the finest in the nation.
the game," explained coach Tournament officials asked each
The Irish more-or-less dom­
America Football Conference. "Always respected for it aca­
Marcee Weise. team's coach to pick a Mostf inated the second half with 
In his seventh full season with demic excellence," reads the 
' 
Welsh made the first goal for Valuable Player team for theirI good passing and many scoring 
I opportunities, but neither team Cleveland and his fifth as a the Belles and tied the score with division, based on the coaches Cavaliers' football media guide, regular, Sipe came into the game "the University of Virginia now
managed to score before the only 15 seconds remaining on observations after the first round 
as the Browns' No.3 career boastsathletic excellence as well. 
end of regulation. In overtime, the clock. Minutes later, assisted of playing. The officials request­
passer-but it took him less Progressive thinking, expansion
Notre Dame on by her teammates, Welsh chased ed that the coaches limit their
hung until 
than five minutes to pass Frank and financial commitment have
Valpo scored on a disputed shot the puck in DePauw's goal a teams to 11 women and that the 
Ryan's 13,361 yards. second to win tie­been important, but it has been
time the coaches not include any of theirwith less than two minutes 
For 'the first half, it was all the people that have made the
own players on the roster. The
remaining, to take the win. breaker and the game.
Cleveland as the Browns' defense program successful. Gene
"We wanted to win very bad­Weise insists, "It's their spirit. results showed that, in the 
limited Chicago to 62 total yards Corrigan has surrounded himself
ly," said Galen, "and I think we They really made up their minds coaches' eyes, three St. Mary's
while the Browns were rolling up with the outstanding dedicated
to win." players deserved a position onplayed just about as well as we 
241-201 of them by Sipe. people who share his philosophy 
In their second game, the the MVP team: Welsh, Loren­[continued on page 11] But Vince Evans, who man-
Belles received a dose of their zini, and Curry. [continued on page 11] 





