...
--------------------------------------~~---~~-­
. Emotional Rescue -page 9 

VOL. XV, NO. n an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 11-IURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1980 
City,~student leaders discuss crime problem 
b'll Paul Mullaney Editor-in-Chief 
Six South Bend officials met 
yesterday with four lhiversity 
officials and four S' .cnt lea­
ders ;o discuss the growing 
problem of crime in heavy 
student-populated off-campus 
neighborhoods and the rela 
tionship between the city and 
theUniversity in these matters. 
The meeting lasted one hour, and was held in the mayor's office at City Hall. Mayor Rog~r Parent, However, was not m attendance. 
A recent flurry of crimes in South Bend's northeast neigh­borhood--just south of campus-­prompted yesterday's meeting. Student victimization\ primarily through break-in ana robbery, erupted last week in the north­east neighborhood. The most significant incident happened last Thursday, when students Rick Valencia and Steve Hoey were beaten in their Corby Street home with the butt end of a shotgun. 
Stude~t ~ody President. Pa1;1l Riehle mdtcated that It ts ''essential to downplay past antagonisms between off­campus students and members of die community. " 
'"it sounds cliche," Riehle said, "but we have to do everything we can from all angles. you realize what a senous problem it is when_ you fmd out t6hat t50 perce~t of the senior class alone ltves off
.. 
campus.
Pff Campus Commissioner Mark Kelley proposed. that the current off-campus crune pro­blem has merely grown propor­tionately to the movement of students away from dormi 
tories. 
"Off-campus residency has 
increased so much in the last few years," Kelley said, "that it has doubled the number of problems without doubling the amount of effort to stop them." 
In 'addition to expressing a need for better street lightmg and higher police visibility_ in th northeast neighborhood, Kelley sounded out Police Chief Dan Thompson and City Attorney Richard Hill on how the police department may better serve the students in this community. 
Hill responded that "nobody would be surprised to find out that students out number resi­dents as far as crime victims in that neighborhood. It is obvious that for students living off campus, they're greatest con­cern right now is crime. "But I've also met with resi­dents ofthe area this week for a couple of hours, and their highest priority wasn't crime. Their highest priority was stu­dents. People m the neighbor­hood that have lived there for 
[continued on page .5) 
Mammoth fossil provokes interest 
by Mary Fran Callahan Senior Staff Reporter 
MONTEREY, Ind.-Finding the skeleton of an almost 20,000-year-old mammt-~h was the furthest thing from Andrew Kolarik's mind when he set out to dig a pond on his Indiana retirment farm. 
Last month, Kolarik hired a contractor to dig his much dreamed of pond. While a crane operator was digging, he heard a pop and subsequently discovered a three foot bone. Kolarik's farm, on that August afternoon, turned from a quiet haven to a mecca for archeologists, .journalists, and both local-and out-of-state curiousity seekers. · 


Nazz plans for new season 
by David Sarphie 

TheNazz, which has in the past been one of the most popular places for late-night relaxation and fun, is preparing for another 
~::;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::;:;:~;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.. 

I Focus · · I 
~::;:;:;;;;;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::!:::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::i:::::::~:~:::~:~:~:;:::::~:::~:::::~:~:~:~:::: 
Preserves finally told her to call a state park. After contacting the Tippecanoe State Park, which she said was "just down the street," Mrs. Kolarik was put in contact with Gary Ellis, an archeologist affiliated with the Indianapolis-based Indiana· Historical Society. 
Ellis expressed his interest in the find and appeared with a crew at the Kolarik's farm the following week via helicopter. Each day they dug, the crew found more bones and at present, can account for 80 percent of the skeleton. Ellis and crew have determined the mammoth's age in a range of anywhere from 10,000-20,000 years. 
Though twelve similar skeletons have been found in Indiana over the years, none ofthe state's 
Marked by a path of red and gold flowers, Kolarik's unpretentious two-story farmhouse sits serenely on a rural road. The only clue that something unusual is occurring at the site is a chain of fluorescent-orange "No Parking" signs, which line the road soley in front ofKolarik's residence. And at the top of a gravel driveway is a small but strongly worded "Private Property/No Tresspassing" sign. 
Kolarik recalled the day when the first mam­moth bone was found. He said the initial bone measured about three feet and looked like it had been fashioned from hard black rock. 
Kolarik's wife, Beatrice, then proceeded to call universities and museums in an effort to obtain an archeologist. 
"Most of the colleges just gave me phone numbers of professors to call, and they weren't at the numbers because it was summer," Mrs. Kolarik explained. 
A spokesman for Illinoilj' Cook County Forest musuems house any. This fact partially affected the Kolarik's decision to donate the mammoth to the Indiana Historical Society's musuem. 
They might have been able to sell it, for even Chicago's Field Museum sent a representative to the dig site. The Kolariks believed, however, that donation to a state museum would be their best alternative. 
"All you can really leave your family is your name," Kolarik mused, "Material things go." 
When the skeleton is reconstructed, the Kolariks' name will hang on a plaque that will accompany the exhibit. 
Mammoth tusks, moreso ·than skeletal bones, are extremely valuable, according to Mrs. Kolarik. She said the historical society offered to let herand her husband keep the original tusks, and the Musuem would then construct fiberglass ones for year ofentertainment. And with the new year, the directors have decided on some changes. 

Director George Wilmes indi­cated that most of the improve­ments would have to do with the club's appearance. "Our. first priority was in the placement of the stage so as to give more ofan intimate, 'Theater in the Round' effect," Wilmes remarked. "We also wanted new carpet to. cover the entire floor." Wilmes noted that the new carpet would im­prove the sound as well as complement the room, which is 
located  in  the  basement  of  
LaFortune.  
The  Nazz  will  continue  to  

provide free entertainment by and for the students. "Our basic objective is to create a relaxed, coffeehouse-type atmosphere," Wilmes observed. "We also give amateur performers a chance to play in front of others." 
In some cases these amateur performances have led to profes­sional appearances. "Many ofthe upperclassmen may remember Rich Prezioso," Wilmes pointed out. "He got his first big break at The Nazz. Now, he's on his way to a professional career." Entertainment ranges from soft rock to comedy and magic. Jazz and rock bands have also made appearances. 
This week's schedule includes an Open Stage Night tonight. No groups are booked, and the stage is open for anyone who wishes to play. 
Tomorrow night's schedule will feature a female folk rock trlo of Deidre Dalton, Sara Wachter, and Ellen Dalton at nine o'clock. John Cuckovich will appear at 10:30. Comedian Mark Davis will also perform. 
Barry Stevens is scheduled for Saturday night at nine. Rick Walters will follow at 10:30. 
"We encourage any students who wish to perform to come out," Wilmes said. "I think it's a really good experience to play before others." 
Anyone interested in appear­ing at The Nazz should call George Wilmes at 8237. 

Carter rejects three man debate bid 
. 
By The AJJfxiated Prm 

The League ofWomen Voters sought and failed today to per­suade president Carter to join Ronald Reagan and John Anderson in the first nationally televised 1980 campaign debate later this month in Baltimore. 
After several hours of negotia­tions, League president Ruth Hinerfeld said Carter aide Tim Smith rejected a series of com­promise proposals and insisted that the first debate include only Carter and Reagan. "Theysaidgo ahead and hold it without us," Mrs. Hinerfeld said. 
She said the League would, and representatives of both GOP candidate Reagan and independ­ent Anderson said both candi­dates would attend the Sept. 21 debate in Baltimore. 
Mrs. Hinderfeld said League officials offered two compromis­es to the Carter camp. Onewas to schedule a series of round-robin debates involving only two candidates at a time, with the participants for each encounter selected by lot. The other was a three-way debate to be followed by the two-man, Carter-Reagan matchup the president is insist­ing on. 
(&OIIIJnuerJ_ on pag• 4] 

NewsBrie_b 
by The ObJerver and The AJJociated PreJJ 
A sixth e:overnmen t has been formed by 
Premier Adolfo ~arez of Spain, in an apparent bid to stem criticism over 'inflation, unemployment and terrorism. The centrist premier on Monday removed deputy premier and economic expert Fernando Abril Martorell, the man Spain's Communist and Socialist parties held partly responsible for the nation's 16 percent annual inflation rate and 11.2 percent unemployment rate. He was replaced with Common Market Minister Leopoldo Calvo Sotelo, whose post was downgraded to undersecretary and given to Catalan economist Eduard Punset Casals. That appointment was seen as a move to enlist Catalan support in a parliamentary vote ofconfidence Suarez is expected to face next week. Suarez also dismissed his foreign minister and replaced him with the autonomy minister. The autonomy post was filled by former Interior Minister Rodolf Martin Villa, a hardliner on security expected to crack down on separatist terrorism that has cost 84 lives this year.-AP 
Army infan try men and military police 

numbering. close to 1)00, mamtained a human fence around a men's compound at Fort McCoy yesterday after two days of disturbances at the Cuban refugee resettlement center. More than 40 refugees were placed under guard in a high-security detention area for allegedly instigating fence-stormings by scores of Cubans on both Sunday and Monday, said U.S. Marshal Robert Thocrpson. Seventeen people-six military policemen and 11 refugees-were injured in the disturbances, but most of the injuries consisted of minor cuts and bruises. One military policeman remained hospitalized in good condit­ion with head injuries suffered Sunday. Tomas Rodriquez, president ofthe refugees' self-government council, blamed the unrest on an unfounded rumor that a charitable organization was selling refugees to sponsors. Wisconsin Gov. Lee S. Dreyfus said earlier that the refugees apparently were frustrated over the long delay in resettling the 4,500 Cubans who remain at the camp. -AP 
pr~f;nt Jt~~~~~~~f N~; o!!~i~!?~JuPech~ 
receive the Sylvanuse Thayer Award of the U.S. Military Academy on Thursday. The award, established in 1958 o honor Col. Sylvanus Thayer, an 1808 graduate ofthe Academy and its fifth superintendant, is sponsored by the Association of Graduates ofWest Point. It is given to people whose "record of service to the country, accomplishments in the national interest and manner ofachievement exemplify outstari:ding devotion ... to duty, honor, country," university officials said. -The Observer 
Air travel is safer than driving, the 2sth 

International Congress of Aviation and Space Medicine was told. Lawson White of the International Air Transport Asso­ciation told delegates from 60 countries Monday that the rate of accidents, based on air miles travelled, has steadily decreased over the past two decades. The four-day conference deals mainly with health and psychological factors concerning aviation personnel. Since most air accidents involve an element of human error, delegates to the conference are presenting papers on how to improve health standards and how to help aviation personnel; especially pilots, cope with stress. -AP 
Organized crimefigures operate a 
"wide variety ' of businesses in Pennsylvania, including firms that have received contracts to make Army missile parts, served as state cigarette agents and leased a buildi,ng to police. "The Mafia is bullish on America," said a report by the Pennsylvania Crime Commission. Crime families use the legitimate businesses as fronts for illegal operations, as a source oftax-free income and as a place to invest or "launder" illegally gotten funds, the commission said. It said Medico Industries near Wilkes-Barre, Pa., has received Army contracts worth over $8 million to produce metal parts for missiles and warheads. The corporaton is owned by the Medico family, "which has been closely aligned with organized crime in northeastern Pennsylvania for years," the report said. 
The Senate's subcommittee on Billy Carter says former Budget Director Bert Lance must answer questions in private like any other witness. Lance refused for fear government "powercrats" would de­liberately distort his story. Lance, who maintains he really couldn't add much to the investigation anyway, says he'll talk only in public, where he can't "be abused and smeared and vilified by well-orchestrated leaks." The subcommittee countered that all other prospe~tive witnesses had given statements in private, usually by 

,. sworn deposition, and that Lance was no different. "It is not the purpose of the subcommittee to harrass or otherwise embarrass Mr. Lance, but rather to proceed in the same manner as the subcommittee proceeded with other witnesses," the panel's statement said. 
' 
M~s~ly sun.nyandmildtodaywithhighsin the mtd-70 s. Increasmg cloudiness and not so cool t~nigh~ with lows in the upper 50's. Mostly cloudy Friday wtth wtdely scattered showers possible. 

-------------··--·-------~----------­
Thursday,.September 11, 198()-page 2 
Inside Thursday 
An.other Reagan. flip-flop? 
Being something ofa late night movie addict, we were struck recently by the profu~dity of Sydney Toler's final line in the immortal "Charlie Chan in Panama." Charlie had justsaved the Panama Canal from certain destruction, with a powerful US naval fleet already in the Canal, and the final shot showed the massive armada sailing safely through. As the final musical strains chimed in, Number Two Son bubbled, "Gee Pop, isn't it great?". To which Charlie replied, in his strange, verbless manner, "Intelligent defense best for years of peace." 
That was written 40 years ago, when hitting .400 wasn't so tough, and Pearl Harbor was just another naval base. Yet, that line defines the basic philoso­phies behind the defense policies ofRonald Reagan. If you've got more snowballs than the other guy, he's not going to throw any at you. Already, philosophy majors are shaking their heads at that logic. 
Ronald Reagan feels that the US Armed Forces are 

. dreadfully inadequate, in comparison to the USSR, and in some instances he is right. Numerically, we trail the Soviets by half a lap in many categories. Reagan wants the US to catch up by building more MX missiles, more B-1 bombers, more Trident subs, more neutron bombs: not so that we can explode the Soviet Union more times than they can do it to us, butso that the USSR will recognize our technological might and never dare to attack us. The weapons would be built not for actual use, but for an intimidation factor. The word "deterrent," which we regard as a euphemism for "arms race," is a very popular one in the Reagan Brain Gang. 
But there are two basic premises which are amiss here-one, that we must be "superior" to the USSR in terms ofour defense arsenal, and two, the Republican use of the word "defense." It is importat to note that the neutron bomb, the MX missile, and the B-1 bomber are not "defense" weapons~ they are "offensive," defensive only in terms of Reagan's deterrence policy. Ronald Reagan does not want to improve our readiness to defend ourselves-he wants to improve our readiness to attack. That is wrong. 
Reagan's repeated statement that we must surpass the Soviet Union numerically is also misbegotten. The candidate wishes not equalitv. 

Design Edrtor . ...... Steve Swank Asst. Design l~ditori ............. . Maureen Heraty 
Deirdn• Murphy 
Copy Editor ......... Kathy Casey Night Technician .... Pat DiPietro New.r Editor . ....... Pam Degnan Editorial Layout ... Mike Onufrak Features Layout ... Scoop Sullivan Sports Layout ...... Brian Beglane Typist.r . .......... Myrtle Perkins BobbiJo \Venz Kathy O'Dell Suzy Sulentic ND Day Editor . ...... Bard Biehl Photographer ..... Linda Shanahan 
The Ob11rv1r (USPS 598 920) is 
published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation 
periods. The Ollserver·ls published 
by the students of Notre l)ame and 
Saint Mary's College. Su:>scriptlons 
may be purchased for $20 per ~ear 
($1 0 per semester) by writing like 
Otinrvtr, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 
postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 
46556. 

TM Oburvtr is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduct1011rights are reserved. 

but supenority, and he insists he will not be satisfied until that goal is reached. We ask. What is wrong with equality? Although our conventional defense forces may be somewhat inadequate, Defense Department insiders maintain thatwe are roughly-practically -equal to the USSR in our nuclear arsenal, and that the quality of Soviet 
weaponry is otten dubious. 
It has been argued that the Soviets would not respect equality nearly so much as superiority, but it could well be that superiority is now out of our reach. A rapid arms build-up would almost guarantee a reciprocal effect in the USSR, which would not hesitate to sacrifice the well-being ofits countrymen in an effort to win an arms race. But no one wins in this competition. 
As a democratic, 

peace-loving society, we should be prepared only to defend ourselves, not . to initiate a devastating nuclear war, and that was the reasoning behind President Carter's call for draft registration. Our defense forces are un­deniably weak and underpaid right now. But curiously enough, Ronald Reagan opposes re­gistration. 
When Reagan was at Saint Mary's last April, we were able to get in one question during the zoo­like press conference 'following his speech. We asked, "Would you act to repeal draft registration, if elected, since it now appears it will pass (into law)?" Reagan replied, "Well, I'd have to look at the facts," and he then launched into his automatic tirade condemning registration in a time ofpeace. The candidate has been curiously silent since then on registration, perhaps because it succeeded so well. 
It could just be another Reagan flip-flop, of which there have been too many to mention this fall. Regardless, it appears that Ronald Reagan's vision of an "intelligent defense" differs greatly from many others, including ours. 

IIC'IIll. AV&I!AI!I! AI AI:(. 110• OIIICI ROIIIMI)(ll<l~l!.(lulHa!IWolflllt:OIICOROIU.lii llll~lii&III'I ..A""IIHAIICHI Sl ..0 8Aii01UMIMA~iii~HAIII lAUlH SIISPIIUDQJIIO .,I!.HNI' liulll"l'llt(.;(JIIm.onllfor.IC.A.IItctRICIIMI'.UnO>P!..:JIIIOIIICXJCl.lll(l ••IIIII!IJ'oiiANIIOM S.OUIIftVIIIIIICOIIO!."'fT WAY.. ...,41iiiJUIIMVJRO"•OJTifl!>IIQII*OIIIC:lii&AIIoDh 
' • I • ',. ~ ':,. '-. ..... ..,. 't. ~:: '. • 

.---------------------------~-----­
The Observer Thursday,.September 11, 1980-page 3 
Suspicion of fraud 
smc pteaenta ... Fllday, Sept. 12
Ads offer questionable employment 
"THE EmPTY KEG" 
by Mi~e 0 'Brie,. Atlanta Better Business Bureau · The Better Business Bureau reported that a certified pub­suggests _consll!Jle.r:s d'? some 
azOopm -I:OOQlft lishing organization, which had personal mvesugat.mg ';llto all
Notre Dame students as well apparently done r:narketing .for ads before engagmg m anyas South Bend residents have American Producuons, was list­business transa<;tions.
questioned the validity of two ed at the su_P._P.osed location of
advertisements, one published ftH
Landmark Puolishing. 

in Monday's Observer,. the A spokesman for the South
In regard to American Pro­
other a pamphlet distributed to ductions the Los Angeloes Bend Buswiness Bureau. said Fine Food & music admlulon local homes. Both ads offered 
Better Business Bureau stated that ads like the Landmark ad 
an "at home" envelope stufftn.g 
that it had no ftle about the . are extremely common and are instruction kit in return for a company nor was the bus~ess geverally not illegal because of
$20 rl"'fundable deposit. listed in the telephone drrec-. the ambiguous wording. 
1 Corby's ~ Thutsday
The ads, placed by Landmark tory.
Publishing Company, allegedly located in Atlanta, Georgia, 



'·:!:lUI_._.! Sept. 11 
offered 4~ cents to workers for 
I I

each envelope reeived that was 
Agents indict Niles banker 
~~---:oo--. ---------­
•'already stamped and adressed to people interested in obtain­ing Astral Sounds Casette ad­
NILES, Mich. (AP) -Improper
vertisin_g material." The ads stock and fmancial deals by the claimed-that Landmark was 
president of the ftrst fc;Cl~ralrunning a "direct marketing Savings and Loan Assoctatton program. for Americ~ Prod~,c­of Niles may have cost the b~
tions of Beverly Hills, Ca. 
$9 .4 million, federal offictals The observer prompsted by the sa . 
expressed concerns of several .):fhese are our examiners' 
students, contacted the South estimates and are as yet undoc-Bend Better Business Bureau umented, but they do represent 
about the validity of the ads and 
a ran~e or scope of the prob-learned that numerous com­lem,' said Warren Dunn, com­
plaints had been flled against munications director of the 
these two ads in recent months. Federal Home Loan Bank The Atlanta Directory Assis­
Board. tance reported no teleph?ne He said an investigation. into listing for Landmark Pubhshmg the activities of bank Prestdent Company. Although a number James R. Yocum was continu­was provided on the brochu~e, m_g. Yocum, who was ftred 
'it was later to be found dts­after the transactions came to connected. Furthermore, the light last month, declined to 
.. 
/Nil/ANA MOTOil iJU!J 
has a great NEW SERVICE Between SOUTH BEND and CHICAGO-O'HARE 
S.te Accomodatin& fast Economical 


O'HARE EXPRESS 

Sclttdule Sl1rts Julr I, I980 
SCHEDULE: 
Df,AITS SOUTH lllfD AllfrES O'HARE 
South lend lui Station 7:00A.M. 10:00 A.M. Soutll 1111111 AirpNt _. _. 7:30 A.M. Seuth lind $tltiln ___ 12:30 P.M. 3:30P.M. Soutfl 11114 AJr,ert .. _. 1:00 Pl1. 
llfrUJS O'IIMf AllfrU IIWTIIIllfD ______ . _.... _.. __ . __ 1:00 P.M. 3:• P.M. 
··········--··------&:30 P.M. 9:00P.M. 
TICKET COST 
ONE-WAY---$15.00 
ROUND-Tig. -$21.00 
lfSflfAntiS UNfCIMJD. 1fT lOT lffiiiiEJ 
Cell y-Lotill ,,..,.. ....... Or 


1 (219) 287-6541 1(219)234-2196 
7pm-lam 

coThmemednetal.s s··...raced when a 
un• securities broker called the 
DtGft Spe~lai
bank and demanded $1 million for a bond he said First Federal agreed to buy, but which was not shown on bank books.. . 
James ~ompson, assoctatton . vtce, prestdent,_ searched. Yo­cum s office ~hile the prestde~t 






3/Sl.OO
was on vacat~on and discov~red $180,000 tn undepostted 
[continued on page 11] 
· ­


I I 
J 
j j j j 
I 
j 
1 
I 
I j j 
l 
j 
1 
I I 


The Observer Thursday,.September 11, 1980-page 4 
Latin-Americans unite ·
MARIO'S 

1 mile "over the border" on 31 North. Every night Is PITCHER NIGHT at Mario's!! 
JPII1f©OOJEffi~ ~~o®® 

Strohs, Hamms, Olympia, Light NO COVER 18 to enter, 21 to drink 
The One and Only 
Tony's Shoe ~~~~wntown Easy to find Ill West Jefferson Open 6 days a week 

-8-5 We sell boots· and mocassins, 


One real-world lesson you1llearn in ness functions. 

Hispanic Festival begins n.ext week 
By Dan LeDuc sponsored by the National Dame for graduate work. In StaffReporter Hispanic Week Committee has 1970, Ms. Olivarez became the been a year in planning after the first woman graduate of the The Second Annual National success of the 1979 festival. Notre Dame Law School. Since Hispanic Week of South Bend Funding for the event this year that time she has run a food 
gets under way this Saturday, comes from the Indiana Com­stamp program, directed the September 13. According to Fr. 
mission for the Humanities and Institute of Social Research and 
John Phelan of St. Stephen's the Miller Brewing Co. 
Development at the University

Parish, co-chairman of the fest­One of the greatest benefits of ofNew Mexico, and taught at the 
ival, events like this are occurring the festival, according to Fr. university's law school. She is the around the country during this Phelan, is that it unifies the 
former head of the Communitymonth. efforts ofall the different groups Services Administration under This time of year was selected 
working with Hispanics. President Carter. She has been to commemorate Mexican Of particular interest to Notre named one ofthe 25 outstandingIndependence Day, September Dame students will be the 
Notre Dame People by Notre 16. September is also a month 

September 18 address by Dame Magazine. At pre~ent, Ms. 
that a number ofLatin-American Graciela Olivarez. The 7 p.m. 
Oliverez is a National Consultant 

countries celebra.te their inde­speech in the Library Auditori­to the United Way Organization. 
pendence from Spain. 
um is entitled, "Hispanic Her address is sponsored by the "The purpose ofthe week is to Women In Employment." 
Notre Dame Chicano Studies 

celebrate the contributions that -In the late 1960's Fr. Hesburgh 
Department.Hispanics make to our general met Ms. Oliveraz at a civil rights Here is .the calendar for the culture in the United States, hearing he was conducting and 
week's events: said Fr. Phelan. The event, convinced her to come to Notre September 13: Hispanic Oly­
school is the importance of productiv­Pre-program­
with statistics and program­ity. Thne you spend doing the math med with busi­mabili~. 
' part of the problem is time you can't ness functions· This capable calculator has AOSTN 

spend learning concepts. for time-value easy entry system, statistical func-

A Thxas Instruments professional of money, statis­tions, 10 memories, 9levels of paren­

calculator will help make your study tics, profit mar­thesis, trig, powers and roots, plus

time more productive. And it can also gin. And other programmability. Its book, "Calcula­

help you move into the world of a pro­problems you'll encounter in tor Decision Making Sourcebook" (a
fessional. A world where knowing the business school. Other capabilities in­$4.95 value), helps you get all the· 
concept is only part qf the solution. clude percent, squares, logs, and 
power pre-programmed into the TI -55. Bringing out the answer req~ res a powers. Its 140-page book, "Keys to 
See the whole line of TI Fifty Yearsworking knowledge of a powerful Money Management"(a $4.95 value), calculators at your college ~lnmftfa~ionpersonal calculator.· has step-by-step instructions plus bookstore or other retailer. 
Economical TI Business Analyst-1 sample problems. It's an extra value 
*'Iradim~ark ofTexas llllltruments with Statistics and advanced busi-with every BA-l. Incorporated. 
Texas Instruments technology -bn"ngi'ng affordable electroniCs to your fingertips. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
© 1980 Texas Instruments Incorporated INCORPORATED 45731 
••• l .f • f
••••••••••••lllli'l'l'i'i'i'i'i'•lllllilllllliilililiiili•••••••••••••••••••••..~ 
The TI-55 advanced slide rule 
mpics, 1-4 p.m., Pulaski Park. Mexican Independence Day Dance, 9 p.m.-1 a.m., Jefferson Ballroom. 
September 14: Musical Pre­sentation, 7:30 p.m., St. Casmir Parich Hall.. / 
September 16: Mayor's Pro­clamation, 9:30 a.m., County City Building Offices. Hispanic Week Observances, 8-3 p.m., Area Schools. Amateur Talent Contest 7 p.m., Washington , High Auditorium. 
September 17: Childrens' Dance Presentation, 10 a.m.-12 p.m., Scottsdale Mall. Regional Costumes from Latin America, 7 p.m., Scottsdale Mall. 
September 18: Hispanic Women in Employment, 7 p.m., Library Auditorium. 
September 19: Mariachi, 6-8 p.m., Island Park. Grand Ball, 8­12 p.m., the Grand Hall, Century Center. 
September 21: Mass in Spa­nish, 9 a.m., St. Stephan's Church with guest celebrant Bishop Jose ]. Madera MSPS. Hispanic Family Life, 10:30 a.m., St. Casimir Parish Hall. 
Other than a fee for the September 13 dance and the September 19 Mariachi, the events are free and open to the public.­
• • . Crime 
(continued from page J] 
Others in attendance at yes­terday's meeting included: Division Chief Cliuck Hurley, SBPD; Robert F. Potvin, Safety Board Assistant; Glenn Terry, Notre Dame Security; Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vice-pres1dent for Student Affairs; Sean Heffernan, Student Govern­ment cabinet; Donald ciancio, student body vice-president; 
ohn Voorde, city councilman;
{ 
ew Me Gann, president of city council. 
, , , Carter 
[contimted from page 1] 
"I'm afraid the impasse which began when we met with the candidate representatives on Aug. 25 remai -~.s the impasse we left with today," Mrs. Hinderfeld said after the meeting broke up. 
•• 'j ' ___..,;._________
.."f\~4 1-re~et,tpa~.yery deepl¥·~··_ 

The Observer ThUrsday , September 11, 1980-page' 
• • . Crime 

[contmued from page 1) 

years believe that Chief Thompson's officers should be out. responding to nois~ com­plamts, people o~t ~n t~e streets, people urmaung m yards, etcl In no way is it a trade-off. That's just what we're faced with." 
James Roemer, dean of stu· dents must be considered, also. "I thind that on the one hand we can say to the police and to the mayor and to the city attorney, we would like more protection. We would like cour­tesy ' an~ q~ick response to senous sttuauons. 
''The other side of the coin is that we've got to somehow control the way we act, because if our actions do· anything to deteriorate that neighborhood, there's a responsibility for what's happening right there, too. " 
Roemer cited five different examples where neighbors of off-campus students com­plained vehemently last wec:k­
' 

Artists Series 
features 
mustctans 
Notre Dame's University Art· ists Series is presennng a special treat to the campus and the area at Sacred Heart Church Sept. 17, with a per­formance by the highly es­teemed Jongleurs. The pro­gram, beginning at 8 p.m., will feature music from ''London British Museum Additional Manuscript 29987,'' written in the fourteenth century. The . Jongleurs is a small ensemble of musicians devoted to the performance of Medieval and Renaissance music. The six young musicians comprising the group have performed throughout the country in the past six years and have been heard nationally on syndicated radio broadcasts. The players perform entirely on instruments of the Medieval and Renais­sance periods and possess a unique combination of talent, s_cholarship, ~nd v~uosi~ abili­ttes on thelf vartous mstru­ments to present a performance that ranks as one of the most exciting in this field today. 
end about parties ne(a at the 
students' liomes. One party, 
held on the 900 block of Notre 
Oamr" Avenue, drew coJlll)laintf' 
from two dltterent netghbors, 
both of whom happen to be 
Notre Dame professors. Report· 
edly 300 people attended this 
single back-yard party, and 
nade a significant amount of 
noise. Tnis, according to 
Roemer, is the type of situation 
which doesn't lielp relations 
between students and regular 
residents. 
While causes and effects of 
the off-campus crime situation 
were offereo by nearly every­
one, solutions weren't as easy 
to come by.
Brother Edward Luther, dir­ector of off-campus housing,expressed a need to get absen­tee landlords more active inse­curing the individual house­holds. He indicated that pam­phlets have been issued in­structing students on protecting their homes. 
Riehle who later indicated that Student Government itself is looking into purchasin_E, and then leasing, a home off cam­pus proposed that the Univer­sity may be able to take an active role in the leasing of homes. 
Roemer indicated that the University has turned down similar op~rtunities in the recent past due to legal, moral and etliical complications. 
Kelley suggested that the University at least take a mo!"e active role in insoectin~ ott­campus homes, and if possible, actually approve and di~ap­prove stvdents to .l.lve m various homes or apartments, based ol'l these inspections. This, he said, woula make it mandatory for students to sign some forrn of liase or housing agreem~nt with the University. 

Nearly all of those a~ the meeting--student leaders m"lu­ded--feel it 'Y~l. be up to t~e students to mmate the mam drive in this crime-prevention action. 
"!think it will have to be that war, " said Kelley. "I think we 1i have to get a big group of off-campus students toghther at some time soon, and basically scare them. Then they can all go home and scare the1r house­mates. We'll have to do that. " 
Kelley has scheduled a meet· ing for next Thursday evening wtth members of the northeast neighborhood organization,other student and administra­tive leaders, and a representa­tive from the detective squad of the South Bend Police Depart­ment. 
He plans to start at that time a deeply-rooted neighborhood program, involving students and other residents, to help lick the crime problem as well as possible. He has already picked out an alarm system that off-campus students can pur­chase, and has arranged the sale of renter's insurance to those who would be interested. 
[continued on page 4] 
the family inn 
Back to School S,.Cill 
4 P.M. 10 11 P.M. 
~~gcouPON~~~
s2.00 OFF,:!::.
25o c.ry Old Clllrp Wllh .....c.,.. 
$1 .•00 OFF1:: ::.· 
Limit 1 Coupon Per Pl-_za 
Coupans Good Thru, Sept 19,1980 OPEl..s•DIYS 4 11 P.l. 

monday Septembet 15 Llbtaty Audltotlum 8:00 Dt. Dougias Lafollette 
"Who Should Play God?" 
genetic englneetlng and what It means fot the futute ftee admission -sponsoted by SU Academic Commission 

Make more of your weekend with $1600 ~~~t~~~;rhJ;:f~r~~~~~o~ooo ;, 
• .aday Monday. Car comes with full tank of gas. Just pay for gas used and return car to renting location D1scounts do not apply 
Unlimited Mileage Michiana Regional Airport try harder. 
South Ben(j . ln. 234-1 24 Avis features GM cars and trucks. 
~ 
---~-~--­



. ---. ---­
The Observer Thursday,. September 11, 1980-page 6 
[Continued from page 1] 
Left: A lone tractor sits idle whiJe the Kolariks' con­ce:ns_ turn fro"? farmt~g to dtggtng. Right: uiee mi­ners panning for gold, archeo­logists run water through the pit with hope of washing out ancient remains. 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:~;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::: 
the pending exhibit. 
The Kolariks, however, donated the mam moth-complete with tusks-and are now hav­ing fiberglass tusk replicas made for themselves as a souveneir to remember the discovery by. 
"It didn't cost us anything to find it," Mrs. Kolarik explained and added, "We figure ifyou're going to donate something, then you should donate it in its entirety." 
J:<.llis and his team preserved the bones by wrapping them in wet "Pampers": if the bones were to remain at room temperature, they would quickly dry, crack and crumble to dust. The specialists then sent the bones to Indianapolis after placing them in plywood boxes. 
Just last week, Mrs. Kolarik encountered yet another bone-a toe joint. When she removed it from a jar of water, which was preserving it, the black bone filled her entire palm. Mr. Kolarik said that one of the animal's rib bones weighed be­tween 150-200 pounds. 
According to the Kolariks, Ellis has a theory as to why the mammoth's ilead remains undiscover­ed. It either could have sunk deeper into the mud since it would be heavier than the other bones; it could have rolled away from the skeleton, or it could have decayed. If the head did decay, however, the teeth would still remain intact, Kolarik explained. No teeth have been found, so the present crane operator is keeping a sharp lookout. 
When word of the Kolariks' discovery reached the media, journalists -from as far south as Wabash County as as far north as Chicago ­
simply flocked. ABC television sent Frank Matthy to the dig site. So when a town the size ofMonterey is suddenly beseiged by cameras, reporters and newscasters, local excitement balloons. 
Neighbors followed the media as did their friends, andas the dig progressed-their relatives. People even appeared with the name Kolarik and told the family they were distant relations. Having hoards of people on his property, Kolarik was quick to check his liability insurance policy. 
"Dwellers are dangerous," he commented and explained that he did not wish to be sued should a local viewer fall into the dig site. 
TheKolariks even stayed up nights in order to make· sure that no one was "poking around or digging" in the woul<;i-be pond. 
After they decided to donate the skeleton, however, they told the IHS the skeleton'ssafety was their reponsibility. Dennis Bogdan, a photo­grapher covering the dig for the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, then camped out at the site for security reasons. 
"It all got to be real hectic," Kolarik com­mented. He said he finally closed the site to the public because curious passersby were "getting in the way" of the archeological team. "We had people everyday," he added. 
Mrs. Kolarik keeps a small white 'Guest Book' which bears the signiatures of every person who visited the dig site. Travellers have come from as far as Essex, England and as close as next door. Even the representatives ofthe media signed their namt•s in the nearly filled thick book. 
When the wife ofthe initial crane operator took 
ill. Keith Kalinke took to the crane. As he at.e his 
Editor's Note: Observer Senior Staff Reporter Mary Fran Callahan travel­led to central Indiana Saturday, mis­sing the entire Purduegame, toproduce this exclusive report on one ofthefew major archeolfJgical discoveries in th(• history of this state. 


;~::::::!;:;:;:;::::;::;:;:;:::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;::~::;:;:;:;:;:;:;::~:~:::::~:~::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:::::::::::::;:;::::::::::~::::::::::::::::;:;;· 
Mammoth-­
'-h Jfi -fi lr7
}ue or a U /t ~.~.:.~::.:: winter's fire chat. ' 
. 
:~~~ 
···· 
t.~.·.~..~..
: 
;:;: 
~;~( :~;~ 
:;:; 
t: 
:~;~: ~;~;: 
::;:: 
:~:~ 
~:~: 
;:;: 
jljj ;:;: 
:~:~ ~=~ 
:~:~ 
~=~= 
;:;: 

~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:s:; 

boxed lunch in the Kolariks' kitchen, he spoke of the abundance ofpeople who inevitably hindered archeological progress. 
"A lot of people couldn't figure out why they (the Kolariks) kept them out. I didn't think there was anything wrong with the "Keep Out" signs. There was so much work to be done," he said. 
The crews would work eight-hour days begin­ning in the morning. The Kolariks' 19-year-old son Mark, who is studying computers at Calumet 
:c~1!~~~~gh~~ a~:a~=t~=:~:; :~~=~~~~~~l :~~~ 
interested in the dig. "Mark really enjoyed helping Gary (Ellis)," Kolarik explained, "I loved having my sonaround. 
He'd help, but he wouldn't stay," he added and explained that his son simply does not care ro live in the slow, slow lifestyle of Monterey.
Tenyears ago, Kolarik, a Griffith Indiana native, bought the Monterey farm as a quiet place which hoped to retire to when his time came. "I want to tear this house down, build a new one, and put my pond in so I can fish," the newly-retired Kolarik explained. Last July, the Kolariks moved to the Monterey farmhouse from their residence in Griffith. Since Griffith is adjacent to cities and also not as slow­paced as Monterey, the couple is having difficulites adjusting to the "peace and quiet" which they thought they would welcome. "Like Beatrice says, ifyou don't have a sense of humor, you'll go into a deep depression," Kolarik laughed. Mrs. Kolarik explained that their telephone consists ofan eight-party line, which automatically becomes disconnected if one of those parties leaves its phone off the hook. Museum curators and archeologists frequently could not reach the Kolariks because of their primitive telephone system. The town is simply too small for private lines. Power failure and hot water shortages have also sardonically developed the Kolariks' senses of humor. "One night the water was out and so were the lights," Mrs. Kolarik explained. A family member wished to take a bath and was forced to heat water on the stove and bathe by candlelight. Now the Kolariks are not so sure they like slow country living. "I go to the store and ask for joint cement, and the people don't know what I'm talking about," Kolarik said. When asked if they plan to stay in Monterey, Mrs. Kolarik replied, "Time will tell." Despite its setbacks, the landscape is lovely. Crickets sing in the background of the dig site while sunflowers sit in the foreground. Deer are known to roam the property. Meanwhile, the predictability ofthe countryside if jarred where a once green field is now a gray hole of watery mud and clay, and a once seldom­travelled rural route is now known to have a traffic problem or two. But Kolarik will have an ex­perience to remember long after water and grass surround the gaping hole. To the neighbors and their relatives who ventured to the dig site, he simply smiles and says, "I guess this all gave 'em fuel for a full winter's fire chat." 
Center: Beatrice Kolan'k surveys her once lush-green backyard, which is temporarily reduced to pi.les ofwet mud. Left: Andrew Kolan·k [foreground] shows crane operator Keith Kalitlke a promising dig spot. 
Photos by Mary Fran Gallahan 
-

Thursday,.September 11, 1980-page 7
itorials 

P. 0. Box Q 
Mr. Ortman, everybody loves a We find this in poor taste that Mr. Crouth, you are just the hovered between English,
winner, and that of course ex­the team leaders consisting of sort of conservative robot the Speech and Drama, and Ameri­plains why you support the John Hankerd, Bob Crable, Tim administration loves. Without can Studies. All of these de Steelers. But, the students like a 
Bum Phillips 
Huffman, and Tom Gibbons put people like you, who would ban partments had good communi­
• winner, too, especially in sports­more on"Alumni s "rather than our kegs,. stop our section parties catons-related courses, lumped·
writing.

a wmner; 
arousing student support for and refuse the existence ofco-ed together with courses of little or their gridiron debut. dorms? Perhaps you would like no use as training for a career in Gus Tamborello As Alumni freshmen, we ac­all campus movies censured by communicatons. 
knowledge the age-old rivalry the Catholic Bishops ofAmerica. But at last, my dilemma was between Alumni and Dillon That way the student body would resolved by the formation of the BUM PHILLIPS FANS-Halls, but an exhibition of this be sheltered from "naughty" new Communication and 
Ortman ~loser 
Dear Editor, 
type shows a total lack ofclass on things. Bring back Mary Theatre Department, which re­NOTE: Spelling correction-accept-the part ofDillon Hall. How can Poppins! placed the old Speech and Drama 
In a school which makes the ed. "Bumb" is not a word. these team leaders expect to gain i think it time for you, Mr. department. claim as "America's 1 Sports My apologie'J also for correcting student support when the basis Crouth to realize that life is notas Let me tell you, John, about School," one could only hope Bum's lousy grammar. You never enda of their speeches was the down­"peachy-keen" and "gollywhiz" this new program ofstudies. It is that this school would have the sentance with a preposrtion. I said grading ofa large group offellow as you may think. If you are highly interdepartmental and sportswriters to cover it. Mike "...kick in the son-ofa-brtch." students? indeed here at Notre Dame to includes communications-relat­Ortman's article, "Houston's Also, I have never professed to be a Even though this rally left us enhance your education, please ed courses from the American Bum really a bumb" was a piece Steeler 'Jan." If I was pulling for with a sour taste, we will whole realize that only a small fraction Studies, English, and old Speech of literary trash. anyone tt was, by far, the Otters. I heartedly support the Irish in our of the college experience had and Drama departments along 
Let's start with vocabulary. A usually cheer for the underdog. -quest for an eighth National anything to do with books. Even with new offerings. It consists of quick check of three handy Finally, everyone must understand Championship. you might open your mind and three possible concentrations: dictionaries showed that there ' the viewpoint of my weekly column, taste the other sides of life. Wise Speech Communication, Mass was no such a word as "bumb." "Thumbs Down." It is in no way up and perhaps "give yourself Communication, and Film and 
john Burke
One could only hope that a intended to be an attack on the over toabsolute pleasure." Video. Within this framework
Fred Ceris
college student could use a character o/ the weekly recipient. there is great flexibility for the
Greg Hatfield 
proper vocabulary. Now, let's Rather, tt comes from the 'Jan in the student to prepare himself for
Chris Hussey
move on to libel. Mr. Ortman stands," critical o/a particular action Tom Anhut whatever specific area of com­
Micheal LaPointe
terribly misquoted Bum Phillip's or actions. munications he chooses as a pro­
Pat Williams

statement. The real quote was, Provoking response and discussion is fession. "Last year we. knocked on the apositive thing as any seminar teacher I intend to pursue a career in door. This year we beat on the will tell you. I welcome this oppor­McGrath broadcasting, and I find the new door. Next year we're gonna tunrty to do so. communications major more 
kick the son-of-a-bitch in." than adequate to suit my needs. I 
More on the 
Please Mr. Ortman, get your Michael Ortman commend the department for
off base
quotes together before you print Asscociate Sports Editor giving Notre Dame such a well­·them. designed and badly needed pro­
'Rocky 
Dear Editor, 
gram ofstudies. I would suggest, It's also so obvious that Mr. 

I am writing in response to the ,John, that you look into what theOrtman doesn't know football. 
Dill 1 ks 

article entitled "Communica Communication and Theatre punt on fourth and "inches." tionsPointers"byJohnMcGrath Department has to offer. Thereclass at Horror. ' ShOW that appeared in Tuesday's you will find the"comprehensive 
He criticizes Bum's decision to Qfl ac 
Actually it was closer to a yard. 
Observer. John's argument for and respectable communication-Does Mr. Ortman realize that the the establishment ofa solid com-s major" that you spoke of asSteelers re the number one team munications major at Notre nonexistant in your article. Yes itagainst the rush in the NFL? Had Dear Editor, Dame was convincing, but out-does exist! 
the Oilers not made it dated. He missed one essential
pep rally

Pittsburgh would have had th~ point: we have a new, compre­Kris Allenball on their own 41-yard line. 
In response to Brian Crouth's hensive communications majorCome on Mike, 59 yards is no-damnation of The Rocky Horror at Notre Dame as of this fall. 
thing to Terry Bradshaw. Dear Edttor, 
Let's look at the facts. Picture Show, I would like to know Not once in his article did]ohn 
'Head shops' 

Houston has a new quarterback, how the above contributed to mention the program in the new and a good one at that. They have We are writing in regard to last the "immorality" he sees in Communications and Theatre 
society.
to open up the season against the Thursday night's "pep rally" in Department, leading me to as­
misplaced

Super Bowl champions in the Dillon courtyard. As fresh­sume that he doesn't know of its 
Pittsburgh. Their number one men, we were eagerly anticipat­The Observer welcomes existence. He only mentions the 
receiver, Ken Burrough, is on ing our first Notre Dame pep letters from its readers. American Studies major, which I Dear Editor: crutches. Everybody knows you rally; however, what we en­Letters to the editor should be agree constitutes insufficient have to pass to beat Pittsburgh. It countered was not a "Beat typed, double-spaced, and si-preparation . for a career in takes more than one game for a Purdue" rally, but rather a rally gned. To insure swzft public-1 commumcattons As a member of the Saint quarterback to get used to his highlighted by various vulgar atil:!n i~ is sugg~sted that the .' I had lamented over this very Mary's-Notre Dame community 
I wish to express my ire thatreceivers. Mr. Ortman, how can chants, the most prominent of wrzter znclude hzs or her phone problem often in the past two The Observer would stoop to you judge a team like this? which was "Alumni s-." number. years as my intended majot 

Doonesbury 
MAY I HAV!3 laR Jt1T£N­
7m, Pt.EA5C? MY NM1& 15 MICHA£1.. t:XJON&58(Jfzy ANIJI'M IAIITH TH& IW~ CAWAIGN. \ 
publishing an advenisement for a "head shop." 
In a time where students

by Garry Trudeau 
either know how to obtain their "paraphernalia " or wish to be excluded from the drug scene, I
I [)()t(THAVt 70 'TCLL W IAMT TH/9 
feel it is beneath the community
C4NIJIPIICYMEANS 70 TH/5 (1)(JNT!<Y­

OKAY, lXAY, 
paper to advenise for this kind
NUT/!T MEANS fm. !TMfAN51/JFA'3. IT 

t£T'9 81</NG 
of a garbage business.
CRAZY
MCAN5 A at:AR. CIOIC£. f()?. 7H£5& 

HIM an;IV/)(5..
I f)!?EIIMER! 
May I tie among those who

/l&A5(JV5, IAJ3/AIILL Pf?C­
/ 
request that T-he Observer el­imtnate advertisements andI or drug-oriented wording from the copy. I feel we neeo positive feeltngs about the paperi not negauve, and see no rationale for promoting the drug culture. 
Since many of the members of the drug culture are retaliatory by nature, I respectfully re­quest that mr. name be wttheld trom publication. 
name ,witield 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
E.dttor-rn-Chte[...... . .. Paul Mullaney SMC Nf'ws Editor ........... Mary Leavirt Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor .............. Mark Rusr Sports Edztor ............... Beth Huffman The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Features Hdrtor ...... ....... Kate Farrell
Editonals Editor.... . Mike Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does nor necessarily Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administration of either instituuon. The news is reported Photo Editor ................ John Macor
Neu·s Editor .................. Pam Degnan
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent rhe opinion of a 
News Editor... Tom Jackman
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges of their authors. Column S(>ace is available to all members of the community, and News Editor ............... John McGrath Advertiszng Manager .. Mike Holsinger the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. · SMC Executive Editor .. Margie Brassil Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan 

--~--~ -~---------------­



Thursday,. September 11, 1980-page 8 
more than up to snuff. popular rock 'n roll could have been 
One of the original strengths of the motivated by two things: the myst­Allman Brothers shines particularly on ifying inability of the band to sell its Reach for the Sky: the rhythm section. records in any great quantities, or the Drummers Butch Trucks andJaimoe complete severance of all ties with Johanson have never played the same Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band. I tempo twice, and their dual drums like to think it was a combination of never become heavy or cumbersome. the two, but it hasn't hurt the quality of Although the band has had several the music. different bassists since the death of For the first time, the band produces Berry Oakley eight years ago, Trucks and arranges itself, after one album and Jaimoe are always tight, ready for with Muscle Shoals' Barry Beckett, any twists that Betts might have for preceded by four with Springsteen's them. Miami Steve van Zandt. The sound is as 
On "Angeline," a catchy upbeat crisp as ever, but the Jukes' horn rocker, tempo shifts are sudden and section is deemphasized somewhat, often, but Trucks, Jaimoe and bassist moving over a little to make room for David G·oldflies handle each one lead guitarist Billy Rush to strut his smoothly, thundering along with style stuff. Rush's solo runs on Sacrifice are and confidence. The album's opening beautifully phrased, precisely played tune, "Hell and High Water," is a efforts, sometimes harmonically ac­similar cut, and the rhythm section has companied byJoel Mandolini. Itworks never been tighter in terms ofknowing well. exactly what directions the boys up But don't think for a moment that front will take next. It's almost amaz­the Jukes' horn section has been ing. phased out. Their punchy embel­
The expected instrumental from the lishments have always played an in­album is "From the Madness of the tegral part in establishing the band's West," which joins the great tradition rhythm and blues flavor, and they do of Allman Brothers jams. Like this especially well on Sacrifice's ''Jessica" or "Pegasus," Betts writes a "Murder." After a superb, acoustic memorable melody, then plays just intro by Mandolini, and a gradual drum enough ofit to give you an idea ofwhat crescendo by Steve Becker, the horns the band will be doing for the next few kick in with full force to set the tune's minutes. Almost everybody solos on threatening tone. Southside adds his this one, evenJaimoe, each trying to raspy vocals to agonize over another outdo the virtuosity ofthe one before. unfaithful woman, and the song It makes for enjoyable listening. succe~ds splendidly. 
But Betts' finest moment comes on SouthsideJohnny Lyon has also co­the record's slowest tune, "So Long." written two ofthe songs on the album, Gregg's mournful narrative combines and they are two ofthe best. Southside with lulling, spare musical accompani­is a soul shouter in the finest traditions ment, while Jim Essery's harp echoesin ofStax and Motown, and it's this talent the background, to conjur the tran­which enables him to convert a lifeless quil, sunny "Our Town" imagery last ballad into a lively rocker. On his seen onEat a Peach's ...Blue Sky." When composition "Restless Heart," he Betts launches intohis solo, he displays extends his range-scarcely one several talents. He can play a clear, octave-in the middle eight to good high E and lelfve it there, by itself, for effect, and Eddie Manion follows that seconds, and say the same thing as ifhe up with an excellent sax solo which were whizzing rapidly through onebox becomes the highlight of the song. after another, which he also does on Billy Rush penned the rest of the "So Long." tunes on Sacrtfke, including "On the 
Betts' versatility stems from this Beach," destined to become a sum­talent, the ability to phrase meaningful mertime classic. It's the type of good solos at any speed. It is a talent which time dance tune theJukes are famous could vault the Allman Brothers back for, gll'!lranteed to get any party to the top. hopping. 
Tom jackman Often you'll find, if you strip away 
the layers of musical accompaniment, 
that the melodies in many oftheJukes' 


songs could easily pass for 1950s-style R & B hits, and this contributes to the band's unique sound. In fact, Springsteen (who owes a great deal to these roots) often gave theJukes songs in this genre, such as "Talk to Me" or "The Time." 
Apparently, the band feels they can do it on their own now. Southside's other tune, "Long Distance," is perhaps Sacrifice's finest number. Opened by a perfectly understated horn chart and a couple ofscissors by Rush, Southside bemoans the distance between himself and his girl with pained sincerity. He introduces the 
song in concert by saying, "You've got to have your heart broken once a night," and this one could do it. "Long

Love Is a Sacrifice 
Distance" becomes one of the Jukes' most soulful tunes since "The Fever," and we all know who wrote that.

Southside Johnny 
Tom jackman 

8lthe Jukes 
The Observer r~quires the talents of
Mercury 
those who would like to review new albums, concert performances, and J 

Once again, Southside Johnny and musical establishments in the South the Asbury Jukes prove themselves to Bend area. If you can write, draw, be the finest white rhythm and blues listen to music or perform bizzare band around, this time with the activities with a tuba, please call and 
summer release Love is a Sacrifice. They leave your nametat the Observer. 
{171.5] Or call Scoop between 3 p.m.

move a little closer to mainstream rock 
and7 p.m. at1772. Spaces are limited, 

'n roll on this album, as they did on last 
so call today. 

year's Tbe]ukes, but in no way does the group abandon its R & B roots. The ~~&~t.~djus~<:~t-t_o!'.:~r~~ ~<?r.e. , ... _ 
r 
-
Features 
Drama 
Yes Atlantic 
The new Yes album, Drama, celebrates a rebirth of the British techo-rock quintet. After TPrmato, their last dismal effort, classically trained keyboard wizard Rick Wakeman and aerial vocalist Jon Anderson departed for more ego­tistically fullfilling ventures, leaving Yes with a chance to regroup and find new directions. The remaining trio of Steve Howe, guitarist par excellance, Chris Sqire, innovative bassist, and Alan White, a solid drummer and percussionist, could have continued sans vocals and synthesized embel­lishments quite successfully, but instead chose a radical and unex­pected path, and that has made all the difference. 
By drafting two new·members from a New Wave group, the Buggies, Yes has revitalized and rejuvenated its art-rock sound with fresh blood and a more accessible philosophy. The addition of Trevor Horn and Geoffrey Downs seems to simplify the complex arrangements of Yes' past works, and yet the almost highbrow virtuosity and level of musicianship remains. In fact, Drama's style is the most clearly defined rock tangent since the classic Yes Album. · 
Drama returns Yes to its roots, when the band allowed itself to tear off tremendous power chords on "Starship Trooper" or sing a capella harmonies on "All Good People." bven Roger Dean, futurist painter and impressionist who designed the infamous Yes logo and has provided so many stunning album covers for the group, is back. Drama is, in short, a celebration ofeverything that good old Yes music used to be. 
Particularly worth attention are "Machine Messiah" and "Into the Lens," two cuts which display Howe at last released from the compro­mising attitudes of Anderson and Wakeman. Squire's penchant for 

radically innovative inconstant bass rythyms is ~et free, and the bottom end bounds along excitedly and cleverly, not allowing the listener to knQw what surprises are coming up next. (Howe has, in fact, been li..,ted by Guitar Player magazine as the best all-around guitarist for the past three years -in any musical style. Squire has also consistently rated highly in the polls.) 
The LP is not without faults, however. At tn.:as, the melodiesecho Pink Floyd or UK . -Genesis or any other classical-rock gr'-"' ~venin the production sound itseh, one finds himsel£ saying, !'He"-.i.sn'.t. tha.t.on 
# " .............. t.tt.t1tl , •• tl 

The Wall?," or "Alan Parsons must · have mastered this cut." In fact, the production work is courtesy ofEddie Offord, former Yes associate. Unfortunately, whether it be de­signed or not, the sound of Drama appears to borrow too frequently from other current works. 
The group will appear in the round in theACC on Friday, October 10 at8 
p.m. Their last concert at Notre Dame disappointed most who at­tended, since the band concentrated on the inaccessible mush of Tormato and kept the performance to a mere hour and a half. The very presence of Anderson, perched on the highest platform in center stage, seemed to set the repressed tone. It was as though he wished to dominate and control the multitudinous talents of his companions, and unfortunately, he succeeded in doing so. The new band will be free of such restraints, and Howe will no doubt indulge in a frenzy of virtuoso guitar manipula­tion. This concert and its featured album,_Drama, are both recom­mended. 
Scoop Sullivan 
\ 

Reach for the Sky 
Allman Bros. Arista 
Once upon a time, about ten or 
eleven years ago, a band called the 
Allman Brothers created a rock genre 
known·as "Southern Rock." They did 
this through a fusion o£ the blues, 
soaring rock improvisations and a 
touch of the Confederate atmosphere 
which still prevails heavily in the 
South. 

But by the mid-Seventies, the 
Allmans had lost two of its main 
members, and the band broke up for a 
time. Another group, Lynyrd Skynyrd, 
laid claim to the Souther1;1 Ro,ck crown, 
though they drifted mote toward 
straight up rock 'n' roll. When that 
band was broken by death also, 
another Florida combo, Molly 
Hatchet, stepped up. They all but 
abandoned Southern Rock's blues 
roots, which mattered little to 
Southern fans, who equid care less 
about black music anyway. 
Now, the Allman Brothers are back, 
ready to regain their crown byvirtue of 
their second stellar release since their 
regroup. Entitled Reachfor the Sky, this 
is no rehash ofthe band's music from a 
decade ago -clearly, the Allrnans are 
looking ahead to the Eighties, with a 
slightly a1tered sound (and band) 
which still works delightfully~ 
The band, under the leade-rship of 
Dickey Betts, has chosen not to look 
back, and there are changes. Quiet 
horn sections creep into the mixonthe 
first two'songs. There are no blues 
tunes, 12-bar or otherwise. Guitar 
interplay between Betts and 
Dangerous Dan Toler is limited But 
that Southern flair is still there, along 
with the fantastic jams that made this . band, and Gregg Allman's voice is 
he Observer -Features 
Thursday'.September 11' 1980-p88e 9 
On stage and live . • • 
Remember Elton.? 
In 1972, his marathon 4~-concert tour sold out completely-17,~00 tickets for one concert vanished in ninety min­utes. His 1976 tour was as successful. 
1980, and there were scattered empty seats on the risers at Rosemont Horizon in Chicago last Thursday night. One balcony section was three­quarters empty, too. 
The crowd consisted of the die-hard Elton John fans, people graduated from nigh school in the early or mid-seventies. The original crocidile rockers. Nearly everyone was twenty or over, and dressed to neat shirts and jeans. They rustled through the $4 programs, politely applauded ~uest sin~er Judte Tzude, and pattently watted for her to get off the stage. 
I was suseicwus. With fellow Britisher Bernte Taupin writing the lyrics, Elton John collected ten gold records. Without him, \Bernie stopped their full-time collaboration after his marriage~to his wife, Maxine, crum­bled), Elton's been drifting for the last four years, occasionally retiring, occa­sionally releasing an unexceptional album. Now, at age 33, could England's one-time wildest piano pounder still deliver? 
I was apparently the only Doubting Thomas in the crowd. When the lights switched off, thousands were on their feet, setting the air ablaze with matchbooks and lighters, rocking Rosemont with cheers. 
The stage glowed red, dry ice mist began to rise, and through the din of heavy bells tolling and a ghostly wind Elt~n John, ~ a red cowboY, hat anct1 whtte 1umpsu1t, strolled to hts cream­colored grand piano and struck the ftrst few chords to "Funeral to a Friend/ Love Lies Bleeding. "This writer joined the standees; come on, a woman can change her mind. 
'the seventies remember' 
And the standees remained on their feet, for most of the two-and-a-half hour concert, as Elton mugged, signed programs, accepted flowers and a rugby ball from well-wishers, and alternately mellowed then frenzied the :'Sa~~day Night's Alright for Fight­tog. 
Vocally, Elton John is as superb as ever (though "Goodbye Yellow Brick Road was slightly shrill). His piano playing is technicallly flawless, and much more subdued than in earlier years; no thumping the keys with his 


' 'Emotional Rescue' ' 
teeth or boots this tour, though he did kick the piano stool offstage during some rowdier numbers. During ''Satur­day Night'' he pranced penguin-like around the stage while the crowd, chanting out the chorus, drowned out the band. While many performers must milk a crowd for applause and partici­pation, Elton, as usual, attracts it. 
Thursday night's performance was enhanced by Elton's back-up band, which includes two members of his original band, bass ~uitarist Dee Murray and drummer Ntgel Olsson. In addition, James Newton Howard played keyboards, and Richie Zito and Tim Renwick assisted Murray on electric guitars. 
While Elton's older hits {"Benny and the Jets," "Your Son~,· "Someone Saved my Life Tonight,' etc.) collected standing ovations, cuts from his latest album, 21 AT 33, were warmly re 
ceived, notably "Little Jeanie." Elton 
shrewdly did not play andy cuts from 
bombs A Single Man and Victim of 
Love. The reception to Taupin's songs 
from 21 AT 33. e g "White Lady 
White Powder,'' were especially en­. thusiastic. 
Taupin, now married to model Toni 
Rousso and living in Los Angelos, has 
declared he plans to continue writing 
for Elton. If so, Elton John could 
resume his place as England's number 
on~ rocker.lf not, he can always bask 
in the rays of this gold record 
collection. Either way, though, the old 
Elton John classics still live; 
Rosemont's response to them attest to 
this fact. Captain Fantastic might be 
back, with a little help from his friend. 
Mayve the eighties generation will 
remember him for works other than 
"Mama Can't Buy You Love," like 
the seventies remember. 
Molly Wo111je 
/ 


If rolling stones gather no moss, and The Rolling Stones lately appear to have gathered quite a bit, then we may assume that the Stones may be stoned, but they are not rolling. They are certainly not rocking. 
Emotional Rescue is the kind of album that hurts when you hear it. It hurts if you are a Rolling Stones fan and it particularly hurts if you are the type of person who hates to see the artistic impulse shrivel into a commercial twitch. Gone is the violent inter­ruptions in meter, the taunting, scorching, reckless lyrics, and the 
It hurts too badto be any good
•

crazed soul ofa group ofartists strung­out-on the margins of society. 
Instead, we get the title song, "Emotional Rescue," which one might conceivably mistake for a Bee Gees tune. MickJagger, the same man who brought us the stellar cutting edge of Extie on Main Street and "Sympathy for the Devil," is now singing: "I'll be your savior, steadfast and true/1'11 come to your emotional rescue." That's milque toast crap. He brings nothing fresh to a subject already raped for all it is worth, and Jagger is just one more "suitor." 
In fact, there is nothing fresh about the whole album. It has no life. "Send it to Me," the third song on the first side, is a fine case in point. There really is no substance here, and nothing takes ove the beat, not the vocals, not the words. Nothing. 
"Summer Romance" is another song with little to recommend itself, and the beat seems somehow copied from "Respectable" off their previous album Some Girls. "Indian Girl," a song where the boys couldn't decide whether to go \vith a Tijuana twist or Country corn, is just plain bad. "Dance" is funky, simple, acceptable. "Let Me Go," to reverse the pattern, is a little more the Stones' style. It has a basic rock beat with which the words are at odds, a slinky monotone giving laid-back orders ofthe sort that should be barked. The Stones are best when they create this confusion in image, the aloof result of a disaffected group of artists living on the edge. 

The second side makes a comeback, but not much. "Where the Boys Go" has the quality ofa musical chant, and allows a chorus ofsweet street voices to violate the space of the first verse. "Down in the Hole" is good Jagger blues. Not great, but good. The side ends with a very weak try, "All About You," and that is a shame since it follows Keith Richards' only good performance on "She's So Cold." 
But Richards, like the rest of the group, is completely uninspired on this album. Charlie Watts seems in­capable of anything more than head­nodding thumps. 
A real lack of thought has gone into this album, at least on the part of the artists. The accountants, I am sure, have given it a great deal. But it is disturbing that a classic group who has survived for this long by doing their best to stay on the fringes of mainstream society, should pay so little attention to · their strengths. Maybe it's the drugs. Or maybe Jagger has attended too many parties with Truman Capote. Whatever the case on this album let's hope that there is a next better than the last. 
Now there may be a reason for all this, and one certainly hopes there is. Much of this stuff was recorded at the same time as Some Girls, certainly an OK effort by the Stones and a re­spectable album by anyone's standard, claims of "disco sellout" not with­standing. But the musical editors should have paid attention to their intitial judgment in skimming the Some Girls cream off the top and leaving· the rest, then we wouldn't have to cringe when we hear this embarrassment and I wouldn't have to write things that 
hurt to say. /Mari RIISI 
..... 
Ibe~======================================= 
Toda~===============Th=ur=sda=y,=.Sep=t=em=ber=11=,=19=80=-p=ag=e1=0 
Campus 
6:30p.m.-mass,nd/smc 
right to life, regina hall 
chapel, smc. s, n d/smc 
right 
7:15p.m.•-general meet­
ing, nd/smc right to life, 
regina hall auditorium. . 7:30p.m. -film­
"nosferatu. a symphony of 
horror, library auditorium, 
admission $1. 
Concession. 
forms due 
today 
Registration forms for campus organizations that have been awarded concession sites for football game days may be picked up and filled out at the Student Activities Office, first floor LaFortune. 
Registration packets that are not returned by today will disqualify the organizations in question from the opportunity of running their respective con­cession stands. After that, sites will be awarded to organizations now on the waiting list. 
Senior cruise tickets 
available 
The Senior Class will sponsor a Riverboat Cruise on the Elkhart Queen this Friday, September.l2. Only 200 tickets are available at a cost of $3.00 per verson for an enjoyable evemng of refreshments. and dancing. Tickets are ava~a~le 
at dinnertime in both dmmg 
halls or from your hall or OC 
representative during this week 
September 8-12. We will board 
the boat in Elkhart at 9:00 p.m. 
and maps will be handed out 
when you buy your tickets. 
Molarity 



Pean.uts 
HOW MANI.f 
PANCAKES WOULD L{OV 
LIKE THIS MORNING? 

ACTVALLL( IT DOESN'T REALLV MATTER BECAUSE WE'RE NOT HAVING PANCAKES THIS MORNING 
_;)_ 



I JUST TI10VGiiT l{OV'D LIKE TO TELL ME 1-iOW 
Michael Molinelli 

DearHumaneSociety, 

ACROSS  28 Skin  
1 Jute fiber  problem  
5 Impress 10 Chukkered  30 &·pointers: abbr.  
game  33 Beautiful  
14 Expanse 15 Holder  Muslim maiden  
16 Sharif  34 Charity  
17 Fibber  35 Iranian  
18 Wllsh  title  
19 One  36 19thcen·  
20 Branchof  turydoc·  
physics  trine  
23 Celt  39 Heroic  
24 Elevated  poem  
railroads  40 Close  
25 -to  41  Doagram·  
(ghost· writing  ~  mar job 42 Medal  
phrase)  letters  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

43 Preeminent one 
44 Onewho piles up wood 
45-Jongg 46 Common 
fund 47 Recluse 54 Chart 55 Jewish 
feast 56 Sign gas 58 One: Ger. 59 Flightless 
birds: var. 60 Smile 61 Active one 62 WWI battle 
site 63 Shoe part 
DOWN 1 Holbrook 2 Great Lake 3 Repast 4 Pain 
reliever 5 Culled 6 Spin 7-Domini 8 Putter 9 Fiction 
10 Sulks 11 All: pref. 12 Nonclerical 13 Scraps 
of food 
21 State: abbr. 22 "Cakes and-" 25 Sultan of 
Turkey 26 Flatters 27 Surcoat 28 Placefor 
sacrifices 29 Navy rank: 
abbr. 30 Agear 31 "-Macabre" 32 More 
bashful 34 Bewildered 35 Pesky 
passerine 
birds 37 Raves 38 Animal 
track 43 Perched 44 Harsh 45 Headdress 46 Air: comb. 
form 47 Hastened 48 Hodgepodge 49 Bowling 
alley 50 Showing, 
for short 51 Same 52 See46D 53 Short fiber 57 Comp.pt. 

, ,
' 
~ 
r__.. 
r 
r 
r r 
~ 
r 
' f 
~ 
I 
, ~ 
r 
, 
' 
I I 

TONIGHT, THURSDAY, LEE'S PRESENTS 
''GRATEFUL DEAD NIGHT'' 
9-? 
-· 

S3.00 GUYS -J2.00 GlfiLS I ALL YOU CAN DRINK 21 ID requited 
The Observer 
Jlasehnll Stadings 

AMERICAN LEAGUE fAST 
W  L  PCT.  G8  
New Yortt  87  52  .626  
BStlrme  84  55  .6G4  3  
Boston  75  61  .551  10112  
Mllw!Uee  71.  67  .525  14  
c~  11  67  .514  15'12  
Detroit  71  68  .511  16  
Tormto  59  80  .421.  28  
WEST  
Klnsas Oty Ol!llciCild  88 70  52 71  .626 .496  18  
TelGIS  69  70  .496  18  
Mll'l'lll!IOta  61  79  .436  26'12  
Odcago (alfomla  59 54  79 83  .428 .394  27'12 32  
Seattle  51  88  .364  36  

~sG'IIrn!s 
O!ICZigO 4, Seattle 3 Ollldllld 3, TelGIS 1 New York 7, Toronto 6 Clewlllld 7, Boston 4 
BStlrme 8, Detroit 4 
Mllw!!ulal3, Minnesota 1 l<a1slls Oty 5 California. (n) 
Toclav's GimeS Mllv.tLI!cee 5 fv'tlmesota EWtlrme 5 Toronto, fn)New York 5 lbstm. (n) l<a1sas Oty 5 (alfomla. (n) 
Qlly gii11!S sdleWied 
Football 
NR.. SCHBJUlE 
~es at TcYrpa Bay 
s.ntav allemoon 
Atllllta 5 New Englllld IRirolt \IS. Green_ Bay at Mllv.tLI!cee New 01e!n; 5 O!lcago 
N.Y. Jets 5 B.Jffalo 
Rllladelphla at fv'tlnnesota Washington 5 N.Y. Gl.!nts 
~5EWtlrme 
Seaffle at Klrlsas Oty Ondm515fv'tlmi Dallas at IBM!r Oeklllld 5 55'11legoSt. l..ools at 55'1 Fnn::lsm 

tMTICfML LliAGUE 
EAST 
Mlntrelll Rllladelphla  w 76 75  L 63 63  PCT. .546 .543  G8 '12  
~ NewYortt O!lcago  73 62 59 54  67 76 80 84  .521 •.oU9 .421. .391  3'12 13'12 17 21112  
WEST  
tbJslm  79  60  .568  -­ 
Los Angeles Ondrwll  79 n  60 63  .568 .550  -­2V2  
Atllllta  71  68  .511  8  
S. Fr.n:lsm  67  72  .482  12  
55'11lego  62  78  .443  18112  

'Yes1enllly's Glm!s No1treal 4, O!lalgo 2 Ondmatl 3, Atllllta 0 Rllla:lelphla 5, New York 0 RtfsbuV! 7, St. Louis 6 Houstm 6, Los Angeles 5, 02)s. llego 4, s. Ffa1dsc:o 2 
Tonilt"s Gllm!s 0!1~ ~ No1treal 
Rllladelftlla at N'a1lreal Atfsbu'!tl5 St. Louis 
O'lly gares scheckJiecl 
Tennis 
Yestardily 
Wona1 ~'tire ll!rre 9, Go5hen 0 St. Nwy's 9, Valp;rciso 0 
Soccer 
Yestenlily f\blre I:8Te 4, Grace 0 
SCORING 
Ant Hllf 
Kevin l..owtoy..(N)), 33:15 0:11 McCoo1e (N)), 37:28 SecDnd Hllf 
Ed (1foloa'e! (N)), 27:32 San Kalale (N)), 44:46 Goalie SiM!5 Jo1Y1 MIIIIQsl (N)) 3 AI Sfralg {Grace) 19 Sh:Jis an Goal f\blre ll1rre 50, Grace 7 


icontint~erl from page ll] 
"I played football in high school, then when I came here I wanted to play a contact sport, but at the intercollegiate level. So I chose rugby over something like interhall football," says Harper, a back on the Irish team. 
Rugby dates back to the early nineteenth century when it first began in England. The sport is often acknowledged to be a off­shoot of soccer and the basis of American football. 
Terms unique to rugby include the pitch, or field which is approximately 75 yards by 125 yards. Players include scrum­mies, who function similarto linemen in football; and backs, who are the players that pri­
• 
Luncheon set for Saturday 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley will sponsor a luncheon with Irish football coach Dan Devine and his wife Monday, Sept. 15, in the ACC Monogram Room. The lunch­eon is for women only and tic­kets may be purchased from the football office for $4.50. 
The story in yesterday's Ob­server reporting that the lunch­on was scheduled for Saturday was incorrect. 
Irish win home 
opener 
The Notre Dame soccer team, outshooting Grace College 50-7, won its home opener last night at Cartier Field with a 4-0 decision over Grace. 
Kevin Lovejoy, Dan McCurrie, Ed O'Malley, and Sami Kahale paced the Irish attack. Notre Dame is now 2-0 on the season. 
Thursday,.September 11, 1980-page 11 
-
)• 
• • • Ruggers 

marily fun with the ball. Only the captain is allowed to address the single referee, and then,. only as "sir." 
Scoring in rugby can be made in four ways. If the rugby ball is run over the opponents' goal and downed the scoring team earns a try, or four points. After a try the ball may be place-kicked or drop­kicked through the goal posts for two points. A third way to score is on a penalty kick as conversion earns three points. The final scoring possibility in rugby is by drop-kicking the ball from the field for a field goal for three points. 
Because rugby is only a club sport it receives very limited 1 
[conlint~ed from page 3] 
checks. Documents covering 
$45 million in securities trans­
actions with other brokers also 
were found, Dunn said. 
According to a bank board 
report, Yocum admitted to fed­
eral investigators that "he was 
responsible but apparently un­
able to provide much informa­
tion on the full extent of the 
problem." 

A copy of the report was obtained by the Detroit Free 'Press. The newspaper said Sunday that the report did n<?t say in whose name the securt­. ties were purchased or whether 
they are still outstanding. 
The report said Yocum "had 
been heavily involved in securi­
ty transactions for an undeter­
mined period of time and the 
vast majority of these transac­
tions were not recorded on the 
association's books." 
The report indicated the tr~s­
actions could cost the Bemen 
County Bank $9.4 million, Dunn 
funds from the University. To pay for road trips, which this year means just one to Cincinnati's Xavier University, the club members must dulge into their own pockets or organize fund raising projects similar to their brat and hotdog booth prior to the Purdue football game. 
"We have a small team this year," says Harper when discu­ssing his charges, "but they are better around athletes with more speed and experience than we've had in the past." 
The Irish will host four other rugby clubs this fall, including 
the  local  South  Bend  club,  
Palmer  College,  Purdue  and  
Marquette.  - 

• Banker 
said. 
The bank is being adminis­tered by Robert ~hephe~d, '!ho estimated the mvesugauon would be complete by early October, Dunn said. 
Yocum was formerly presid~nt and chairman of the Bernen County REpublican Party. He resigned the chairman's post Saturday. . 
He was named acting pres•· dent of Fiest Federal in March. In 10 years with the bank, Yocum also served as treas11;rer and senior vice president, Ftest Federal Chairman Wtlliam Peace said. 
Dunn said business at the main band and six branches was uninterrupted and that each deposit was insured up to $1~0 00 by the feder~ agency1
1
whtcn oversees savmgs ana loan institutions. 
The association's last official semi-annual report listed Fiest Federal's assets at $132 million. 

Classifieds  All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue In which the ad Is run. The Observer office wll accept classilieds Monday thrOUQh Friday. 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classilieds must be pre-paid. either In person or through the mail.  

Notices GET INVOLVED! Join CILA on Sept. 1 -;;~ two tickets to the Michigan 12-14 for an Orientation Week-end. game-will pay $25 each. Please call General Meeting Sept. 10, 7pm Matt at 255-7001. Library Lounge. Registration forma available In Student Activities Office. WANTED 2 MUSICIANS, ONE TRUMPET AND ONE TROMBONE TO PLAY IN A MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student JAZZROCK GROUP. ALSO WANTED ONE loans $20·$200. One percent In­FEMALE VOCALIST. IF INTERESTED CALL terest. Due In one month. one day TED AT 8257, OR LUIS AT 3045. wall. Open M·F 11:30-12:30 In Lafortune Basement. NEEDED: RIDE TO CLEVELAND ON FRIDAY SEPT. 12. PLEASE CALL TOM AT 1652. GERMANY. Study-lour for 3 seme­ster hours Purdue history credit, DESPEIIATELY NEED MICHIGAN TIX CALL May17·June5, 1981. Applications BOB 1606 due October 10. Write G.R. Mark, History, Purdue. Wesllt Lafayette, NEEDED: One GA. and one Student 74907 ticket for the Michigan game. Call Pal Doran at 283-8401 West Side TV. 2604 S. Michigan St. -25'­dlscount to sl: 1dents. We service all HELPI Young lass lsln desperate searchmake IVa and stereos. $10 service call. ol Alabama tickets. Call Bertha, 3845.ffee pick-up and delivery. We sell used 1Vs. 234-20. Open dally 10-6. Sat.1D-3. , Will pay almost anything For two Michigan G.A. Tickets. 283-1195 Rich. Need lix student or G.A. MichiganLost&Found flckela. Can be separated. Call larry·. 1049 lost: Prescription sunglaase11-black frames, black case. Call 284-4580 Will Pay Through Nose for Two Michigan Leave message. H. Hudson. ncketa Call114375 LOST: GOLD JULE'-.JERGAN WATCH 0H Need 1 Michigan StUdent Ticket. Good N.D. CAMPUS. IF F<>IJND CALL 1526 Money. Call Tim, 1219 IIEWAR D URGENnY NEED GA llcksta lor Army game. Call Jim at 1412. liADE OR BUY 3 GA'S. I have 3 GA'a forWanted Air Force. Want 3 far any other home game. SUe 4992. INSTANT CASH PAID FOil ClASS RINGS. Men's $35 · tall and up. frM Houae Delperalely need one or two MichiganColis. 256-ZA02 t1x. Student or GA. Mark 1363. " tor 2 Michigan ~" nx Call4603 SMC  For Rent ROOMS $45 MO. NEAR 233-1329. Graduate student looking for room­mates to share a clean five-bedroom house. located In safe neighborhood. lully furnished. Including washer/dryer. On bus line anu 10 minute drive to campus. $70 per month. Calf 288·3109 and ask for Jim. FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Car. Priced from $7.95 a day and seven cents a mile. Phone 255-2323 for re­servations. For Rent: Spacious one·bedroom a­partment large enough lor 2-3. En­closed porch and garage. 160 plus utilities. Easy walking distance to cam­pus. Contact Ron at Pandora's Boolcs 233-2342. For Rent: Ugly Duckling Rent-a-Car Frl­noon • Monday-noon29.95 w/ 150 Free Miles Phone 255-2323 far reservations Sleeping Room for Rent Nearrr Park Ave Area M~Jn Only 232·1150 Tickets Will sell soul for 4-6 tlcke'-to Miami on Oct. 11. MARK 11~ NEeD.TWO G:A. TIXrORANY.HOMEGAME 'CEPT ARMY CALL DAN 11''l1 MUST HAVe: TWO MICHIGAN GA TICKETS. MONEY NO OBJECT. CALL 277-3575. Rlthy rich alumnus wlahea ~A Mk:h ttx. CoH 277-4853 offer 5. Deapera,. need of Michigan ttx. Pteaae call EHeen at 8CW2. WUt pay money. ~----------­N.ed twO c;;A t1x lor Mich. WMI pay $$. CoN Helene at 6116.  Need Michigan tickets. Call Ralph at GAS SAVERI 25 mpg In t6wn. 1976 277-8561. Chevette 4-Speed. No Rust. Snow llres. $1900. Call282-1805 or 684-141A to lest Need Mich. Tlx. G.A. ar Student. Joe drtve. 1142 Mucha Dinero$$$ NEEDED: 2 or 3 GA llcketa for Mlch game. Willing to ppy very high prlcetl Call (SMC) 5431 up to Sept. 19.$$$$$$$ Personals -I NEED 2 TO 6 GA. MICHIGAN TICKETS CI'.AII What It It? Find out on FOR VISITING RELATIVES. CALL PERRY AT Orientation Week·end, Sept.12·1 4 1419. Informational meeting-Wednesday, Sept 10, 7 pm Library Lounge Leprechaun will pay a pot o' gold for Mich. Tlx call Jlm-8583 DANCEIII Wont to do It? Or· ganlzatlonal Meeting Thursday, Sept DESPERATELY NEED ONE MICHIGAN 11. 7pm rm 243 lyons or call Angela STUDENT OR GA TICKET 7921 WILL PAY YOUR PRICE CAU STEVE AT 277-7190. Happy Birthday John Mahaney Wel­come Backl HELPI Young lou lsln desperate search ot Alabama tickets. Call Bertha, 3845. Rider wanted this or any other weekend from Sf. Louis to 5.8. to Sf. Louis. If you have a friend from St. louis Who wouldFor Sale Mke to vlalt N.D. and needs a ride. call Kevin at 1800. For Sale: Extra large coldapot refrl· gerater. Pedecl lor dorm. $95.00 Calf What Ia a harry buffalo? 7443 BuHala Bill was a lover ofharry buHaloa. For sale pair Ather XP-95 four way speakers call Rick 1761 SlA UNITE (St.Ed'a llberallon Army) MeeHng tonight In VIncent HQIII. Plans-­---­-·~ FOR SA,lf: 1972 Dodge Polara .. Original will be dlsculled for the upeomlng cotar -White. Recent color • rust. $5 or takeowlr of Flanner 6 Grace. best offert Calf "Drlllwood" 8366. Wanted a REAL man for a REAL woman. SURGICAL·. SCRUB SHIRTS, Jut! like your Clare " Boom·Boom" Devreux Call favorite Ieana, they get more comfar· · I 4089. table with each washing. Only $9.95, .. ptua tax. No postage or handling · ATTENTION SOUTHERN CALIFORNIANS: charges. Specify Small, Medium, or There wll bean organizational meeting REAllY lARGE. Green or Blue. Send lhll Thwaday night at 7:00 In the La c::hect to: GalaxY Spartt, P.O. lox 6113, Fortune Ulffe Theater lOt the So. Cot South lend. Indiana A6660. • Club of N.D. We hope to ­all of you.... STEIEO: AM·FM ater.o, ca..tte, lurn­toble. ~~ condHion. 2 yq old. call PHI. 8338  

·, ........... . 
( 

-1 
1 1 
~~ 

-~~----~-------------------------­
-
Irish, Belles host tennis tourney Saturday 

by Mark Hannuksela Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's tennis team, undefeated in two matches this year, and St. Mary's, a 9-0 winner over Valparaiso yesterday, take to the courts this weekend as co-hosts oftheNotre Dame-St. Mary's invitational tournament. 
A total of eight teams will participate in the competition, which is slated to begin at 9 a.m. Saturday at the Courtney Center Courts. The Irish and the Belles, last year's co-champs, are favor­ed again this year. 
Among the teams attempting to unseat the favorites will be Indiana State University, Saint Fran cis College oflllinois and the University of Dayton. 
Irish eye national competition 
~y Kelly Sullivan Women's Sports Editor 

hncouraged bv the 1-0 win over visiting AlbTon College in Saturday's season opening con­test, Notre Dame's women's field hockey squad has set its sights on national competition if their recent display of success continues. 
First year St. Mary's €eaeh Ginger Oakman, who will be without the services of top singles player Patsy Coash again this weekend, is nevertheless 
optimistic  about  her  team's  
chances  of repeating  as  co­ 
-champs.  

"Despite the fact that we have only been practicing for a short time, our people have been play­ing pretty strong. We're not going to have Patsy (who will still be competing in a mixed doubles tournament in Florida) or Maureen Fitzgerald, (Coas!H doubles partner through most of last season, who is studying in Ireland this year), but I'm hoping that we'll do well." 
The upcoming competition will be especially keen for Notre 
_Dame.-who will be trying to 
avoid what Coach Sharon Petro 
calls "occasional mental lapses." 
"One thing we need to work 
on," said Petro; who is back after 
a one year absence, "is main­
taining our intensity throughout 
th€ course ofa match. I want the 
team to be able to reach a point 
where we are striving for every 
point, for every game, against 
every opponent, not just the 
tougher ones. That way, we will 
be able to avoid overconfidence, 
as _well as little lapses in con­
ntration." 
Notre Dame improved its 
season record to 2-0 yesterday 
with a 9-0 victory over Goshen 
College. The Irish defeated 
Indiana-Purdue at Fort Wayne 
by the same-seore in their season 
opener last Saturday. 
Crowell, a native ofTrenton, N. The Irish have moved up to J., was leading scorer lOf last Lnvision II this fall, and have year's squad. 6alen's strongest upgraded their schedule quite a returning player is sophomore bit. Highlights include a match Jean Grasso. Grasso, a sweeper this Saturday with Indiana, to be for the team last season, has played in the Hoosiers' stadium moved up to play a strong center after the football game with position in the field. Iowa, and a trip to Saint Louis University, ranked number four Galen will implement a stn · in the country last year. Galen 
tegy that uses a four-player­believes Division II affords the squad a better opportunity to qualffy for regional action. 
"We stand a good chance of a national finish with this schedule beca~se it's more of a challenge and will prep us better for the tournament." 
Ruggers face Chicago 
by Beth Huffman Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame Rugby <::lub will open its 20th year on Saturday as the "A", "B" and "C" squads take to the pitch against Chicago Griffin. The Irish will host the Windy City club on Stepan field with game time at 1 p.m. 
Nearly 75 young men com­prise the club with president, captain and head coach Rich Harper leading the way. Joining Harper as top returners from last year's squad are serums, or for­wards, Brian McManus and Nick Colarelli; and backs Brian Tucker and Mike "Junior" McGlynn. 
Why do so many men parti­cipate in the grueling sport? 
-A sport .in which you play two40 minutes halves, with justa five minute half time? 
-A sport in which no sub­stitutions are allowed for the 15 men on the field except in the case of severe injury?

The Irish and the Belles both -A sport in which there is nohope to serve up winners this physical protection except for a
weekend in the ND-SMC 
mouthpiece?

Invitational. (Photo by ] ohn "I guess it's the close com­Macor) aniderie," says Harper, a senior engineering major. "It's a fun 
Astros tie Dodgers for NL west lead 
.see sportsboard 
First-year coach Jan Galen will have a relatively young crew to work with this season. Only eight of sixteen players return from last year's team, which finished second in the Division III state tournament. 
"We're a pretty young team," Galen says, with freshmen comprising one third of her contingent. ·• Even the people co,ming back have only played one nor two years." 
Senior Pat Crowell and soph­omore Dianne Turney serve as co-captains for the Irish. 
-front, rather than the standard 5-3 system. "The 4-2 system has advantages for the kind of strengths we have onrhe fteld," Galen explained. A duo of talented freshman, Juana Marone and Clare Henry, play the two link positions on the 
field. 

Kathy Ray stored the lone goal for Notre Dame in Saturday's battle. "We looked good," said Galen. "The team was really thinking and working to use everyone on our drives -that's ourgoal." 

Kevin l<?,vejoy opened the scoring for the Irish in yesterday's 4-0 rout of Grace College. 
game and it helps get out the aggression. Besides, the parties afterwards are great." 
But, what compelled Harper, a California native, to choose rubgy over another sport? 
[continued on page 11] 

Meyers and Boulac : vocal teachers 
The first thing you notice when you're watching the two men at work on Cartier Field is that they must be vet}'-brave. Or very stupid. Watching Brian Boulac and Bill Meyers during Notre Dame football practice is not for the weak of heart. -::_ Boulac and Meyers spend most of their after­noons tutoring theyoung menofthe offensive line in the fjne art of getting in the way of the other behemoths with the wrong color jersey on. But nobody would ever confuse Meyers and Boulac With Emil T. Hofman. 
They disdain the chalkboard and the overhead projector. They prefer the megaphone and the foghorn. To Meyers and Boulac, the best way is the one that makes the most noise. IfMeyers can't be heard screaming at one of the centers, it's only because Boulac is bellowing at some poor freshman. 
Surely, if their linemen still have their blocking assignments ringing in their ears three1hours after practice, they aren't likely to forget them on Saturday. 
On a hot, sunny afternoon behind the ACC, Notre Dame's offensive line longs for that anonymity offensive linemen are so famous for. Instead, they toil for a pair of taskmasters who would make Sgt. Carter of the old "Gomer Pyle" television series look like a nursing home at­tendant. 
They scream, they shout, they wonder in very loud tones how any of their players ever got to Notre Dame, because they're certainly not very good. W auld any ofthem care to try chess instead? 
There can be little doubt that both Meyers and Boulac will die on the astroturfofCartier Field. It's enly a question of how. Will they explode from within and self-destruct? Or will some 6-5, 250 pound tackle finally crack under the pressure and use them for a blocking sled? 
On Saturday, anonymity returns. As the whole 
country watches Phil Carter humiliate the Purdue 
defense, Meyers and Boulac smile. When Mike 
Courey completes more passes in one game than 
he had in three years, they smile some more. And 
when Purdue coachJim Young says that a healthy 
Craig Chval 


Mark Herrmann wouldn't have reversed the score because Notre Dame· dominated the line of scrimmage, they agree. 
They know that their players, All-America John Scully and five players-Phil Pozderac, Bob Burger, Randy Ellis, Robb Gagnon and Mike Shiner-who had never started a game before Sl!rturday, were the reason Notre Dame made it look so easy. 
It wasn't always so easy. 

In the national championship season of 1977, when all five starters on Notre Dame's offensive line went on to be drafted in the NFL, the offense scored just 19 points against Pittsburgh. The following week, it managed 13 against a pathetic Mississippi team. 
In 1978, withAll-AmericansDaveHuffmanand Tim Foley on the line and the entire 1977 backfield intact, Notre Dame was shutout by Missouri. Last fall, Vagas Ferguson and Company didn't dent the Michigan endzone. 
Saturday was the first time in Dan Devine's six years at Notre Dame that the Irish had scored 20 points in their season opener. Before Saturday, they had averaged 11.6. 
You can give the Mike Coureys and the Phil Carters the glory. Butgive the offensive line and its coaches the credit. 
After Saturday's game, Phil Carter knew that there would be even more interviews to look forward to. And Mike Courey thought that maybe everybody wouid stop asking him ifhe thought he was good enough to play. 
But the men on the offensive line, they had just one thing to look forward to -two more weeks of Meyers and Boulac. 
----=---...............
~~---------------------------~-­




